The NITE XML Toolkit: Demonstration from ve corporaJonathan Kilgour and Jean CarlettaUniversity of EdinburghUnited Kingdomjonathan@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractThe NITE XML Toolkit (NXT) is opensource software for working with multi-modal, spoken, or text language corpora.It is specifically designed to support thetasks of human annotators and analystsof heavily cross-annotated data sets, andhas been used successfully on a range ofprojects with varying needs.
In this textto accompany a demonstration, we de-scribe NXT along with four uses on dif-ferent corpora that together span its mostnovel features.
The examples involve theAMI and ICSI Meeting Corpora; a studyof multimodal reference; a syntactic anal-ysis of Genesis in classical Hebrew; anddiscourse annotation of Switchboard dia-logues.1 IntroductionOf the software packages that provide support forworking with language corpora, the NITE XMLToolkit (NXT) is arguably the most mature, of-fering to combine multiple audio and video sig-nals with crossing structures of linguistic annota-tion.
It is currently in use on a range of corpora.Current users both create annotations in NXT na-tively and ?up-translate?
existing data from othertools into NXT?s storage format.
Although itsbiggest strengths are for multimodal language re-search, some users have found it to be the right so-lution for work on text and speech corpora with-out video because of the way it handles anno-tation and analysis.
NXT is open source soft-ware, available from Sourceforge and documentedat http://www.ltg.ed.ac.uk/NITE.
It is written inJava and uses the Java Media Framework (JMF)for its handling of signals.In this text to accompany a demonstration, wesummarize NXT?s functionality, comment on itsuse for four corpora that together showcase itsmost novel features, and describe funded futuredevelopment.2 The NITE XML ToolkitAt its core, NXT consists of three libraries: onefor data handling, one for searching data, and onefor building GUIs for working with data.
The datahandling libraries include support for loading, se-rialization using a stand-off XML format, naviga-tion around loaded data, and changes to the datain line with a specific data model that is intendedespecially for data sets that contain both timing in-formation and overlapping structural markup.
Thesearch facility implements a query language thatis designed particularly for the data model and al-lows the user to find n-tuples of data objects thatmatch a set of conditions based on types, tempo-ral conditions, and structural relationships in thedata.
The GUI library defines signal players anddata displays that update against loaded data andcan highlight parts of the display that correspondto current time on the signals or that correspondto matches to a query typed into a standard searchinterface.
This includes support for selection as re-quired for building annotation tools and a specifictranscription-oriented display.NXT also contains a number of end user inter-faces and utilities built on top of these libraries.These include a generic display that will work forany NXT format data, configurable GUIs for somecommon hand-annotation tasks such as markup ofnamed entities, dialogue acts, and a tool for seg-menting and labelling a signal as it plays.
Theyalso include command line utilities for commonsearch tasks such as counting query results and65Figure 1: Named entity coding on the AMI corpussome utilities for transforming data into, for in-stance, tab-delimited tables.Finally, a number of projects have contributedsample data and annotation tools as well as mech-anisms for transforming data to and from otherformats.
Writing and testing a new up-translationtypically takes someone who understands NXT?sformat between one and three days.
The actualtime depends on the complexity of the structurerepresented in the input data and whether a parserfor the data format must be written from scratch.Badly documented formats and ill-formed datatake longer to transform.3 ExamplesExample 1: The AMI and ICSI MeetingCorporaThe AMI Project (http://www.amiproject.org) iscurrently NXT?s biggest user, and is also its largestprovider of financial support.
AMI, which is col-lecting and transcribing 100 hours of meeting data(Carletta et al, 2005) and annotating part or all ofit for a dozen different phenomena, is using NXT?sdata storage for its reference format, with data be-ing generated natively using NXT GUIs as wellas up-translated from other sources.
The projectuses ChannelTrans (ICSI, nd) for orthographictranscription and Event Editor (Sumec, nd) forstraightforward timestamped labelling of video;although NXT comes with an interface for the lat-ter, Event Editor, which is Windows-only and notbased on JMF, has better video control and was al-ready familiar to some of the annotators.
For anno-tation, AMI is using the configurable dialogue actand named entity tools as well as tailored GUIs fortopic segmentation and extractive summarizationthat links extracted dialogue acts to the sentencesof an abstractive summary they support.
Figure 1shows the named entity annotation tool as config-ured for the AMI project.
Aside from the sheerscale of the exercise, the AMI effort is unique inrequiring simultaneous annotation of different lev-els at different sites.
NXT does not support datamanagement, but its stand-off XML data formathas made it relatively easy to manage the processusing a combination of a CVS repository for ver-sion control, web forms for data upload, and wikisfor work assignment and progress reports.The AMI Project piloted many of theirtechniques on the ICSI Meeting Corpus(Janin et al, 2003), which shares some character-istics with the AMI corpus but is audio-only.
Moreinformation about this closely related use of NXTcan be found in (Carletta and Kilgour, 2005).66Figure 2: DIAGRAMS corpus: linking gesture and dialogue acts.Example 2: Multimodal referenceThis example is a small project that is looking atthe relationship between referring expressions andthe hand gestures used to point at a map.
Althoughthe transcription, referring expression, and gestureannotations were done in other tools and then up-translated, NXT gave the best support for linkingreferring expressions with gestures and analysingthe results.
Figure 2 shows the linking tool.
Oneinteresting aspect of this project was that the anal-ysis was performed by a postgraduate psycholo-gist.
Analysts with no computational experiencefind it more difficult to learn how to use the querylanguage, but several have done so.
With this kindof data set, simply the ability to play the signalsand annotations together and highlight query re-sults provides insights into behaviours that are dif-ficult to reach otherwise.Example 3: Syntax in GenesisThis example is an annotation of Genesis in clas-sical Hebrew that shows its structural divisioninto books, chapters, verses, and half-verses.
Thedata itself, which is purely textual, was originallystored in an MS Access relational database, butoverlapping hierarchies in the structure made itdifficult to query in this format.
After finding NXTon the web and consulting us about the best way torepresent the data using the NXT data model, theuser successfully up-translated his data, searchedit using NQL, and exported counts to SPSS to cre-ate corpus statistics.Example 4: The Switchboard CorpusThe Switchboard Dialogue Corpus(Godfrey et al, 1992) has been popu-lar for computational discourse research.
(Carletta et al, 2004) describes an effort whichup-translated its Penn Treebank syntactic analysisto NXT format, added annotations of ?markables?for animacy, information structure, and corefer-ence, and used this information all together.
Thisproject made heavy use of NXT?s query language,including the ability to index query results in thedata storage format itself for easy access.
Thework is now being extended to align an improvedversion of the transcriptions that includes wordtimestamps derived by forced alignment with thetranscriptions used for the syntactic and discourse67annotation, and to add annotations for phonologyand syllable structure, all within the same corpusstructure.4 DiscussionIt should not be supposed from our list of ex-amples that NXT has been used only for theseapplications.
Particularly novel NXT uses in-clude simultaneous display of annotation with are-enactment of a human-computer tutorial dia-logue driven by the dialogue system itself; hand-annotation of head orientation from video usinga flock-of-birds motion sensor mounted on a cof-fee mug; and annotation of the critiques expressedin conversations about movies.
However, mostNXT users are applying some kind of discourseannotation.
They choose NXT because they needto combine signal labellings with annotations thatgive structure over the top of orthography, becausethey want to combine annotations from differentsources and so find the stand-off format attrac-tive, or because they need the GUI library in or-der to develop novel interfaces.
Academic soft-ware is often inadequately documented, and there-fore only usable with the help of its developers.It is inevitable given the size of the target usercommunity that most of them are at least ?friendsof friends?.
Enough users have worked indepen-dently of the developers that we are confident thatall but the newest parts of NXT are understandablefrom the documentation.Although NXT is mature enough for use, sev-eral projects are investing in further development.The largest current efforts are to create an annota-tion and analysis tool with a time-aligned ?tiered?data display and a query processor with better per-formance (Mayo et al, 2006).
Another priority isbetter packaging, particularly of the configurableinterfaces and of the existing translations from theformats used in transcription and other annotationtools.
Finally, contributing projects plan work thatwill improve interoperability between NXT andother tools, including eyetrackers, NLP applica-tions such as part-of-speech taggers, and machinelearning software.AcknowledgmentsNXT prototyping and development has been sup-ported primarily by the European Commission(MATE, LE4-8370; NITE, IST-2000-2609; andAMI, FP6-506811) and Scottish Enterprise via theEdinburgh-Stanford Link.
The examples shownare by kind permission of Scottish Enterprise, theAMI Project, and Dr. Matthew Anstey of CharlesSturt University.References[Carletta and Kilgour2005] J.C. Carletta and J. Kilgour.2005.
The NITE XML Toolkit meets the ICSIMeeting Corpus: Import, annotation, and brows-ing.
In S. Bengio and H. Bourlard, editors, MachineLearning for Multimodal Interaction: First Interna-tional Workshop, MLMI 2004, Martigny, Switzer-land, June 21-23, 2004, Revised Selected Papers,Lecture Notes in Computer Science 3361, pages111?121.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
[Carletta et al2004] Jean Carletta, Shipra Dingare,Malvina Nissim, and Tatiana Nikitina.
2004.
Usingthe NITE XML Toolkit on the switchboard corpus tostudy syntactic choice: a case study.
In Fourth Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation Conference, Lis-bon, Portugal.
[Carletta et al2005] J. Carletta, Simone Ashby, Se-bastien Bourban, Mike Flynn, Mael Guillemot,Thomas Hain, Jaroslav Kadlec, Vasilis Karaiskos,Wessel Kraaij, Melissa Kronenthal, Guillaume Lath-oud, Mike Lincoln, Agnes Lisowska, Iain Mc-Cowan, Wilfried M. Post, Dennis Reidsma, andPierre Wellner.
2005.
The AMI Meeting Corpus:A pre-announcement.
In S. Renals and S. Bengio,editors, 2nd Joint Workshop on Multimodal Interac-tion and Related Machine Learning Algorithms, Ed-inburgh.
[Godfrey et al1992] J. Godfrey, E. Holliman, andJ.
McDaniel.
1992.
Switchboard: Telephone speechcorpus for research development.
In InternationalConference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Pro-cessing, pages 517?520, San Francisco, CA, USA.
[ICSInd] ICSI.
n.d. Extensions to Tran-scriber for meeting recorder transcription.http://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/Speech/mr/channeltrans.html; accessed 14 Oct 05.
[Janin et al2003] A. Janin, D. Baron, J. Edwards, D. El-lis, D. Gelbart, N. Morgan, B. Peskin, T. Pfau,E.
Shriberg, A. Stolcke, and C. Wooters.
2003.
TheICSI Meeting Corpus.
In IEEE International Con-ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing,Hong Kong.
[Mayo et al2006] Neil Mayo, Jonathan Kilgour, andJean Carletta.
2006.
Towards an alternative im-plementation of NXT?s query language via XQuery.In EACL Workshop on Multi-dimensional Markup inNatural Language Processing (NLPXML), Trento,Italy.
[Sumecnd] Stanislav Sumec.
n.d.
Event Editor.http://www.fit.vutbr.cz/research/grants/m4/editor/;accessed 14 Oct 05.68
