Proceedings of the Workshop on How Can Computational Linguistics Improve Information Retrieval?, pages 1?8,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsIndonesian-Japanese CLIR Using Only Limited ResourceAyu Purwarianti Masatoshi Tsuchiya Seiichi NakagawaDepartment of Information and Computer Science, Toyohashi University of Technologyayu@slp.ics.tut.ac.jp tsuchiya@imc.tut.ac.jp nakagawa@slp.ics.tut.ac.jpAbstractOur research aim here is to build a CLIRsystem that works for a language pairwith poor resources where the sourcelanguage (e.g.
Indonesian) has limitedlanguage resources.
Our Indonesian-Japanese CLIR system employs theexisting Japanese IR system, and wefocus our research on the Indonesian-Japanese query translation.
There are twoproblems in our limited resource querytranslation: the OOV problem and thetranslation ambiguity.
The OOV problemis handled using target language?sresources (English-Japanese dictionaryand Japanese proper name dictionary).The translation ambiguity is handledusing a Japanese monolingual corpus inour translation filtering.
We select thefinal translation set using the mutualinformation score and the TF?IDF score.The result on NTCIR 3 (NII-NACSISTest Collection for IR Systems) WebRetrieval Task shows that the translationmethod achieved a higher IR score thanthe transitive machine translation (usingKataku (Indonesian-English) andBabelfish/ Excite (English-Japanese)engine) result.
The best result achievedabout 49% of the monolingual retrieval.1 IntroductionsDue to the various languages used by differentnations in the world, the CLIR has been aninteresting research topic.
For language pair witha rich language resource, the translation in theCLIR can be done with a bilingual dictionary -based direct translation, machine translation - ora parallel corpus - based translation.
For a rarelanguage pair, there is an attempt to use a pivotlanguage (usually English), known as transitivetranslation, because there is no ample bilingualdictionary or machine translation systemavailable.
Some studies have been done in thefield of transitive translation using bilingualdictionaries in the CLIR system such as[Ballesteros 2000; Gollins and Sanderson 2001].Ballesteros [2000] translated Spanish queriesinto French with English as the interlingua.Ballesteros used Collins Spanish-English andEnglish-French dictionaries.
Gollins andSanderson [2001] translated German queries intoEnglish using two pivot languages (Spanish andDutch).
Gollins used the Euro Wordnet as a dataresource.
To our knowledge, no CLIR isavailable with transitive translation for a sourcelanguage with poor data resources such asIndonesian.Translation using a bilingual dictionaryusually provides many translation alternativesonly a few of which are appropriate.
A transitivetranslation gives more translation alternativesthan a direct translation.
In order to select themost appropriate translation, a monolingualcorpus can be used to select the best translation.Ballesteros and Croft [1998] used an Englishcorpus to select some English translation basedon Spanish-English translation and analyzed theco-occurrence frequencies to disambiguatephrase translations.
The occurrence score iscalled the em score.
Each set is ranked by emscore, and the highest ranking set is taken as thefinal translation.
Gao et al [2001] used a Chinesecorpus to select the best English-Chinesetranslation set.
It modified the EMMI weightingmeasure to calculate the term coherence score.Qu et al [2002] selected the best Spanish-English and Chinese-English translation using anEnglish corpus.
The coherence score calculationwas based on 1) web page count; 2) retrievalscore; and 3) mutual information score.
Mirna[2001] translated Indonesian into English andused an English monolingual corpus to select thebest translation, employing a term similarityscore based on the Dice similarity coefficient.Federico and Bertoldi [2002] combined the N-best translation based on an HMM model of aquery translation pair and relevant documentprobability of the input word to rank Italiandocuments retrieved by English query.
Kishidaand Kando [2004], used all terms to retrieve adocument in order to obtain the best termcombination and chose the most frequent term in1each term translation set that appears in the topranked document.In our poor resource language ?
JapaneseCLIR where we select Indonesian as the sourcelanguage with limited resource, we calculate themutual information score for each Japanesetranslation combination, using a Japanesemonolingual corpus.
After that, we select onetranslation combination with the highest TF?IDFscore obtained from the Japanese IR engine.By our experiments on Indonesian-JapaneseCLIR, we would like to show how easy it is tobuild a CLIR for a restricted language resource.By using only an Indonesian (as the sourcelanguage) ?
English dictionary we are able toretrieve Japanese documents with 41% of theperformance achieved by the monolingualJapanese IR system.The rest of the paper is organized as follows:Section 2 presents an overview of an Indonesianquery sentence; Section 3 discusses the methodused for our Indonesian-Japanese CLIR; Section4 describes the comparison methods, and Section5 presents our experimental data and the results.2 Indonesian Query SentenceIndonesian is the official language in Indonesia.The language is understood by people inIndonesia, Malaysia, and Brunei.
The Indonesianlanguage family is Malayo-Polynesian(Austronesian), which extends across the islandsof Southeast Asia and the Pacific [Wikipedia].Indonesian is not related to either English orJapanese.Unlike other languages used in Indonesiasuch as Javanese, Sundanese and Balinese thatuse their own scripts, Indonesian uses thefamiliar Roman script.
It uses only 26 letters asin the English alphabet.
A transliteration moduleis not needed to translate an Indonesian sentence.Indonesian language does not havedeclensions or conjugations.
The basic sentenceorder is Subject-Verb-Object.
Verbs are notinflected for person or number.
There are notenses.
Tense is denoted by the time adverb orsome other tense indicators.
The time adverb canbe placed at the front or end of the sentence.A rather complex characteristic of theIndonesian language is that it is an agglutinavelanguage.
Words in Indonesian, usually verbs,can be attached by many prefixes or suffixes.Affixes used in the Indonesian language include[Kosasih 2003] me(n)-, ber-, di-, ter-, pe(n)-, per-,se-, ke-, -el-, -em-, -er-, -kan, -i, -nya, -an, me(n)-kan, di-kan, memper-i, diper-i, ke-an, pe(n)-an,per-an, ber-an, ber-kan, se-nya.
Words withdifferent affixes might have uniform or differenttranslation.
Examples of different wordtranslation are ?membaca?
and ?pembaca?,which are translated into ?read?
and ?reader?,respectively.
Examples of same word translationare the words ?baca?
and ?bacakan?, which areboth translated into ?read?
in English.
Otherexamples are the words ?membaca?
and ?dibaca?,which are translated into ?read?
and ?being read?,respectively.
By using a stop word elimination,the translation result of ?membaca?
and ?dibaca?will give the same English translation, ?read?.An Indonesian dictionary usually containswords with affixes (that have differenttranslations) and base words.
For example, ?se-nya?
affix declares a ?most possible?
pattern,such as ?sebanyak-banyaknya?
(as much aspossible), ?sesedikit-sedikitnya?
(less possible),?sehitam-sehitamnya?
(as black as possible).This affix can be attached to many adjectiveswith the same meaning pattern.
Therefore, wordswith ?se-nya?
affix are usually not included in anIndonesian dictionary.Query 1Saya ingin mengetahui siapa yang telah menjadi peraihAcademy Awards beberapa generasi secara berturut-turut(I want to know who have been the recipients of successivegenerations of Academy Awards)Query 2Temukan buku-buku yang mengulas tentang novel yangditulis oleh Miyabe Miyuki(Find book reviews of novels written by Miyabe Miyuki)Figure 1.
Indonesian Query ExamplesIndonesian sentences usually consist ofnative (Indonesian) words and borrowed words.The two query examples in Figure 1 containborrowed words.
The first query contains?Academy Awards?, which is borrowed from theEnglish language.
The second query contains?Miyabe Miyuki?, which is transliterated fromJapanese.
To obtain a good translation, the querytranslation in our system must be able to translatethose words, the Indonesian (native) words andthe borrowed words.
Problems that occur in aquery translation here include OOV words andtranslation ambiguity.3 Indonesian - Japanese QueryTranslation SystemIndonesian-Japanese query translation is acomponent of the Indonesian-Japanese CLIR.The query translation system aims to translate an2Indonesian sentence queryIndonesian sentence queryIndonesian query sentence(s) into a Japanesekeyword list.
The Japanese keyword list is thenexecuted in the Japanese IR system to retrievethe relevant document.
The schema of theIndonesian-Japanese query translation systemcan be seen in Figure 2.Figure 2.
Indonesian-Japanese QueryTranslation SchemaThe query translation system consists of 2subsystems: the keyword translation andtranslation candidate filtering.
The keywordtranslation system seeks to obtain Japanesetranslation candidates for an Indonesian querysentence.
The translation candidate filtering aimsto select the most appropriate translation amongall Japanese translation alternatives.
The filteringresult is used as the input for the Japanese IRsystem.
The keyword translation and translationfiltering process is described in the next section.3.1 Indonesian ?
Japanese Key WordTranslation ProcessThe keyword translation system is a process usedto translate Indonesian keywords into Japanesekeywords.
In this research, we do transitivetranslation using bilingual dictionaries as theproposed method.
Other approaches such asdirect translation or machine translation areemployed for the comparison method.
Theschema of our keyword transitive translationusing bilingual dictionaries is shown in Figure 3.The keyword translation process consists ofnative (Indonesian) word translation andborrowed word translation.
The native words aretranslated using Indonesian-English and English-Japanese dictionaries.
Because the Indonesiantag parser is not available, we do the translationon a single word and consecutive pair of wordsthat exist as a single term in the Indonesian-English dictionary.
As mentioned in the previoussection dealing with affix combination inIndonesian language, not all words with the affixcombination are recorded in an Indonesiandictionary.
Therefore, if a search does not revealthe exact word, it will search for other words thatare the basic term of the query word or have thesame basic term.
For example, the Indonesianword, ?munculnya?
(come out), has a basic term?muncul?
with the postfix ?-nya?.
Here, the term?munculnya?
is not available in the dictionary.Therefore, the searching will take ?muncul?
asthe matching word with ?munculnya?
and givethe English translation for ?muncul?
such as?come out?
as its translation result.Figure 3.
Indonesian-Japanese KeywordTranslation SchemaIn Indonesian, a noun phrase has the reverseword position of that in English.
For example,?ozone hole?
is translated as ?lubang ozon?
(ozone=ozon, hole=lubang) in Indonesian.Therefore, in English translation, besides word-by-word translation, we also search for thereversed English word pair as a single term in anEnglish-Japanese dictionary.
This strategyreduces the number of translation alternatives.The borrowed words are translated using anEnglish-Japanese dictionary.
The English-Japanese dictionary is used because most of theborrowed words in our query translation systemcome from English.
Examples of borrowedwords in our query are ?Academy Awards?,?Aurora?, ?Tang?, ?baseball?, ?Plum?, ?taping?,and ?Kubrick?.Even though using an English-Japanesedictionary may help with accurate translation ofwords, but there are some proper names whichcan not be translated by this dictionary, such as?Miyabe Miyuki?, ?Miyazaki Hayao?, ?HonjoManami?, etc.
These proper names come fromJapanese words which are romanized.
In theJapanese language, these proper names might bewritten in one of the following scripts: kanji(Chinese character), hiragana, katakana andromaji (roman alphabet).
One alphabet word canIndonesian ?
JapaneseKeyword TranslationCandidates for Japanese TranslationTranslation Candidate FilteringJapanese TranslationIndonesian ?
EnglishBilingual DictionaryJapanese Keyword ListEnglish ?
JapaneseBilingual DictionaryTranslationCandidates for Japanese TranslationJapanese Morphological Analyzer (Chasen)Japanese Stop Word EliminationIndonesian words borrowed words?
English ?
Japanese BilingualDictionary Translation?
Japanese Proper NameDictionary Translation?
Hiragana/KatakanaTransliteration3be transliterated into more than one Japanesewords.
For example, ?Miyabe?
can betransliterated into ?
?, ?
?, ???
or ???.??
and ??
are written in kanji, ???
iswritten in hiragana, and ???
is written inkatakana.
For hiragana and katakana script, theborrowed word is translated by using a pair listbetween hiragana or katakana and its romanalphabet.
These systems have a one-to-onecorrespondence for pronunciation (syllables orphonemes), something that can not be done forkanji.
Therefore, to find the Japanese word inkanji corresponding to borrowed words, we use aJapanese proper name dictionary.
Each term inthe original proper name dictionary usuallyconsists of two words, the first and last names.For a wider selection of translation candidates,we separate each term with two words into twoterms.
Even though the input word can not befound in the original proper name dictionary(family name and first name), a match may stillbe possible with the new proper name dictionary.Each of the above translation processes alsoinvolves the stop word elimination process,which aims to delete stop words or words that donot have significant meaning in the documentsretrieved.
The stop word elimination is done atevery language step.
First, Indonesian stop wordelimination is applied to a Indonesian querysentence to obtain Indonesian keywords.
Second,English stop word elimination is applied beforeEnglish keywords are translated into Japanesekeywords.
Finally, Japanese stop wordelimination is done after the Japanese keywordsare morphologically analyzed by Chasen(http://chasen.naist.jp/hiki/ChaSen).The keyword transitive translation is used in2 systems: 1) transitive translation to translate allwords in the query, and 2) transitive translationto translate OOV (Indonesian) words from directtranslation using an Indonesian-Japanesedictionary.
We label the first method as thetransitive translation using bilingual dictionaryand the second method as the combinedtranslation (direct-transitive).3.2 Candidate Filtering ProcessThe keyword transitive translation results inmany more translation candidates than the directtranslation result.
The candidates have atranslation ambiguity problem which will behandled by our Japanese translation candidatefiltering process, which seeks to select the mostappropriate translation among the Japanesetranslation candidates.
In order to select the bestJapanese translation, rather than choosing onlythe highest TF?IDF score or only the highestmutual information score among all sets, wecombine both scores.
The procedure is asfollows:1.
Calculate the mutual information score forall term sets.
To avoid calculation of all termsets, we calculate the mutual informationscore iteratively.
First we calculate it for 2translation candidate sets.
Then we select100 sets with the highest mutual informationscore.
These sets are joined with the 3rdtranslation candidate sets and the mutualinformation score is recalculated.
This step isrepeated until all translation candidate setsare covered.For a word set, the mutual information scoreis shown in Equation 1.I(t1?tn) =??
?= +=11 1ninijI(ti;tj)=??
?= +=11 1 )(tlog).
(tlog)t,(tlogninij jijiPPP(1)I(t1?tn) means the mutual information for aset of words t1, t2,?tn.
I(ti,tj) means themutual information between two words (ti,tj).Here, for a zero frequency word, it will haveno impact on the mutual information score ofa word set.2.
Select 5 sets with highest mutual informationscore and execute them into the IR engine inorder to obtain the TF?IDF scores.
The TF?IDF score used here is the relevance scorebetween the document and the query(Equation (2) from Fujii and Ishikawa[2003]).?t???????????
?+ tt,iit,iDFN.logTFavglenDLTF(2)TFt,i denotes the frequency of term tappearing in document i. DFt denotes thenumber of documents containing term t. Nindicates the total number of documents inthe collection.
DLi denotes the length ofdocument i (i.e., the number of characterscontained in i), and avglen the averagelength of documents in the collection.3.
Select the term set with the highest mutualinformation score among 3 top TF?
IDFscoresFigure 4 shows an example of the keywordselection process after completion of the4keyword translation process.
The translationcombination and set rankings are for all words (4translation sets) in the query.
Actually, thetranslation combinations and sets for the queryexample are also ranked for 2 and 3 translationsets.
All resulting sets (ranked by its mutualinformation score) are executed in the IR systemin order to obtain the TF?IDF score.
The finalquery chosen is the one with the highest TF?IDF score.Figure 4.
Illustration of Translation FilteringMethod4 Compared MethodsIn the experiment, we compare our proposedmethod with other translation methods.
Methodsfor comparing Indonesian-Japanese querytranslation include transitive translation usingMT (machine translation), direct translationusing existing Indonesian-Japanese dictionary,direct translation using a built-in Indonesian-Japanese dictionary, transitive translation withEnglish keyword selection based on mutualinformation taken from English corpus, andtransitive translation with Japanese keywordselection based on mutual information only.4.1 Transitive Translation using MachineTranslationThe first method compared is a transitivetranslation using MT (machine translation).
TheIndonesian- Japanese transitive translation usingMT has a schema similar to Indonesian-Japanesetransitive translation using a bilingual dictionary.However, machine transitive translation does notuse Indonesian-English and English-Japanesedictionaries.
Indonesian queries are translatedinto English queries using an online Indonesian-English MT (Kataku engine,http://www.toggletext.com).
The Englishtranslation results are then translated intoJapanese using 2 online MTs (Babelfish engine,http://www.altavista.com/babelfish and Exciteengine, http://www.excite.co.jp/world).4.2 Direct Translation using ExistingIndonesian-Japanese BilingualDictionaryThe second method compared is a directtranslation using an Indonesian-Japanesedictionary.
This direct translation also has aschema similar to the transitive translation usingbilingual dictionary (Figure 2).
The difference isthat in translation of an Indonesian keyword,only 1 dictionary is used, rather than using 2dictionaries; in this case, an Indonesian-Japanesebilingual dictionary with a fewer words than theIndonesian-English and English-Japanesedictionaries.4.3 Direct Translation using Built-inIndonesian-Japanese DictionaryWe also compare the transitive translation resultswith the direct translation using a built-inIndonesian-Japanese dictionary.
The Indonesian-Japanese dictionary is built from Indonesian-English, English-Japanese and Japanese-Englishdictionaries using ?one-time inverseconsultation?
such as in Tanaka and Umemura[1998].
The matching process is similar with thatin query translation.
A Japanese translation issearched for an English translation (from everyIndonesian term in Indonesian-Englishdictionary) as a term in the Japanese-Englishdictionary.
If no match can be found, the Englishterms will be normalized by eliminating certainstop words (?to?, ?a?, ?an?, ?the?, ?to be?, ?kindof?).
These normalized English terms will bechecked again in the Japanese-English dictionary.For every Japanese translation, a ?one-timeinverse consultation?
is calculated.
If the score isQuery:Saya ingin mengetahui metode untuk belajarbagaimana menari salsa (= I wanted to know themethod of studying how to dance the salsa)Keyword Selection:Metode (method), belajar (to learn, to study, to takeup), menari (dance), salsaJapanese Keyword:Metode: ????,??,??,?
?Belajar: ???,??,??,??,??,??,??,??,???,??,???,??,??,????
?Menari: ??,???,?????,???,??,??,?
?Salsa: ??
?Translation Combination:(????,???,??,???)(??,???,??,???)(??,???,??,???
), etcRank sets based on Mutual Information Score:1.
(?
?, ?
?,   ?
?,   ???)2.
(?
?, ?
?,   ?
?,   ???)3.
(?
?, ??
?, ??
?, ???)4.
(?
?, ??
?, ??
?, ???)5.
(?
?, ??
?, ?
?,   ???
)Select query with highest TF?IDF score?
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?5more than one (for more than one English term),then it is accepted as an Indonesian-Japanese pair.If not, the WordNet is used to find its synonymand recalculate the ?one-time inverseconsultation?
score so as to compensate for thepoor quality of Indonesian-English dictionary(29054 words).5 Experiments5.1 Experimental DataWe measure our query translation performanceby the IR score achieved by a CLIR systembecause CLIR is a real application and includesthe performance of key word expansion.
For this,we do not use word translation accuracy, as forthe CLIR, since a one-to-one translation rate isnot suitable, given there are so manysemantically equivalent words.Our CLIR experiments are conducted onNTCIR-3 Web Retrieval Task data (100 GbJapanese documents), in which the Japanesequeries and translated English queries wereprepared.
The Indonesian queries (47 queries)are manually translated from English queries.The 47 queries contain 528 Indonesian words(225 are not stop words), 35 English borrowedwords, and 16 transliterated Japanese words(proper nouns).
The IR system (Fujii andIshikawa [2003]) is borrowed from Atsushi Fujii(Tsukuba University).
External resources used inthe query translation are listed in Table 1.Table 1.
External Resource ListResource DescriptionKEBI Indonesian-Englishdictionary, 29,054 wordsEijirou English-Japanese dictionary,556,237 wordsKmsmini2000 Indonesian-Japanesedictionary, 14,823 wordsToggleText Kataku Indonesian-English machinetranslationExcite  English-Japanese machinetranslationBabelfish English-Japanese machinetranslation[Fox, 1989] and[Zu et al, 2004]English stop words (are alsotranslated into Indonesianstop words)Chasen Japanese morphologicalanalyzerJinmei Jisho Japanese proper namedictionary, 61,629 wordsMainichi Shinbun& Online YomiuriShinbunJapanese newspaper corpus5.2 Experimental ResultIn the experiments, we compare the IR score ofeach translation method.
The IR scores shown inthis section are in Mean Average Precision(MAP) scores.
The evaluation metrics is referredto [Fujii and Ishikawa 2003b].
Each query grouphas 4 MAP scores: RL (highly relevantdocument as correct answer with hyperlinkinformation used), RC (highly relevant documentas correct answer), PL (partially relevantdocument as correct answer with hyperlinkinformation used), and PC (partially relevantdocument as correct answer).
The documentshyperlinked from retrieved documents are usedfor relevance assessment.00.020.040.060.080.10.120.14jp iej-mx iej-mb ijn ij iej ij-iejPC PL RC RLFigure 5.
Baseline Indonesian-Japanese CLIRFigure 5 shows the IR scores of queriestranslated using basic translation methods suchas the bilingual dictionary or machine translation,without any enhanced process.
The labels used inFigure 5 are:?
jp (monolingual translation), where ?jp?denotes Japanese query?
iej (transitive translation using bilingualdictionary), where ?i?, ?e?, ?j?
denoteIndonesian, English and Japanese, respectively,?
iej-mx (transitive machine translation usingKataku and Excite engines), where ?m?denotes machine translation,?
iej-mb (transitive machine translation usingKataku and Babelfish engines),?
ijn (direct translation using the built inIndonesian-Japanese dictionary),?
ij (direct translation using Indonesian-Japanesedictionary),?
ij-iej (combination of direct (ij) and transitive(iej) translation using bilingual dictionary).The highest CLIR score in the baselinetranslation (without the enhancement process)achieves 30% of the performance achieved bythe monolingual IR (jp).IR results in Figure 6 shows that OOVtranslation does improve the retrieval result.Here, our proposed methods (iej and ij-iej)achieve lower score than the comparisonmethods.600.010.020.030.040.05iej-mx iej-mb ijn ij iej ij-iejPC PL RC RLFigure 6.
Indonesian-Japanese CLIR with OOVTranslation0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08ij-iej-IR-60ij-iej-IR-50ij-iej-IR-40ij-iej-IR-30ij-iej-IR-20ij-iej-IR-10ij-iej-IR-5ij-iej-I-10ij-iej-I-5ij-iej-I-3ij-iej-I5ij-iej-I4ij-iej-I3ij-iej-I2ij-iej-I1iej-IR-30iej-IR-20iej-IR-10iej-IR-5iej-I-10iej-I-5iej-I-3iej-I5iej-I4iej-I3iej-I2iej-I1ij-IR-30ij-IR-20ij-IR-10ij-IR-5ij-I-10ij-I-5ij-I-3ij-I5ij-I4ij-I3ij-I2ij-I1ijn-IRijn-I-10ijn-I-5ijn-I-3ijn-I5ijn-I4ijn-I3ijn-I2ijn-I1iej-mx-IRiej-mx-I-iej-mx-I-5iej-mx-I-3iej-mx-I5iej-mx-I4iej-mx-I3iej-mx-I2iej-mx-I1iej-mb-IRiej-mb-I-iej-mb-I-5iej-mb-I-3iej-mb-I5iej-mb-I4iej-mb-I3iej-mb-I2iej-mb-I1RLRCPLPCFigure 7.
Indonesian-Japanese CLIR with OOVTranslation and Keyword FilteringFigure 7 shows the MAP score on theproposed Indonesian-Japanese CLIR.
Thekeyword selection description of each querylabel follows:?
In (n = 1 .. 5): one query candidate based onmutual information score; example: I2 meansthe 2nd ranked query by its mutual informationscore.?
I-n (n = 3,5,10): combination of the n-bestquery candidates based on mutual informationscore; example: iej-3 (disjuncture of the 3-bestmutual information score candidates).?
IR: the 1-best query candidate based oncombination of mutual information score andTF?
IDF engine score.
X in IR-X showsnumber of combinations.
For example, IR-5means the highest TF?
IDF score among 5highest mutual information score sets.Figure 7 shows that the proposed filteringmethod yields higher IR score on the transitivetranslation.
We achieve 41% of the performanceachieved by the monolingual IR.
The proposedtransitive translation (iej-IR-10) improves the IRscore of the baseline method of transitivetranslation (iej) from 0.0156 to 0.0512.
The t-testshows that iej-IR-10 significantly increases thebaseline method (iej) with a 97% confidencelevel, T(68) = 1.91, p<0.03.
t-test also shows that,compared to other baseline systems, theproposed transitive translation (iej-IR-10) cansignificantly increase the IR score at 85% (T(84)= 1.04, p<0.15), 69% (T(86) = 0.49, p<0.31),91% (T(83) = 1.35, p<0.09), and 93% (T(70) =1.49, p<0.07) confidence level for iej-mb, iej-mx,ij and ij-iej, respectively.
Another proposedmethod, a combination of direct and transitivetranslation (ij-iej), achieved the best IR scoreamong all the translation methods.
The proposedcombination translation method (ijiej-IR-30)improves the  IR score of the baselinecombination translation (ij-iej) from 0.025 to0.0629.
The t-test showed that the proposedcombination translation improves IR score of thebaseline ij-iej with a 98% confidence level, T(69)= 2.09, p<0.02.
Compared to other baselinesystems, t-test shows that the proposedcombination translation method (ijiej-IR-30)improves the IR score at 95% (T(83) = 1.66,p<0.05), 86% (T(85) = 1.087, p<0.14), 97%,(T(82) = 1.91, p<0.03) and 99% (T(67) = 2.38,p<0.005) confidence level for iej-mb, iej-mx, ijand iej, respectively.6 ConclusionsWe present a translation method on CLIR thatis suitable for language pair with poor resources,where the source language has a limited dataresource.
Compared to other translation methods7such as transitive translation using machinetranslation and direct translation using bilingualdictionary (the source-target dictionary is a poorbilingual dictionary), our transitive translationand the combined translation (direct translationand transitive translation) achieve higher IRscores.
The transitive translation achieves a 41%performance of the monolingual IR and thecombined translation achieves a 49%performance of the monolingual IR.The two important methods in our transitivetranslation are the borrowed word translation andthe keyword selection method.
The borrowedword approach can reduce the number of OOVfrom 50 words to 5 words using a pivot-target(English-Japanese) bilingual dictionary andtarget (Japanese) proper name dictionary.
Thekeyword selection using the combination ofmutual information score and TF?IDF score hasimproved the baseline transitive translation.
Theother important method, the combination methodbetween transitive and direct translation usingbilingual dictionaries also improves the CLIRperformance.AcknowledgementsWe would like to give our appreciation to Dr.Atsushi Fujii (Tsukuba University) to allow us touse the IR Engine in our research.
This work waspartially supported by The 21st Century COEProgram ?Intelligent Human Sensing?ReferencesAdriani, Mirna.
2000.
Using statistical term similarityfor sense disambiguation in cross languageinformation retrieval.
Information Retrieval: 67-78.Agency for The Assessment and Application ofTechnology: KEBI (Kamus Elektronik BahasaIndonesia).
http://nlp.aia.bppt.go.id/kebi/.
Lastaccess: February 2004.Babelfish English-Japanese Online MachineTranslation.
http://www.altavista.com/babelfish/.Last access:  April 2004.Ballesteros, Lisa A. and W. Bruce Croft.
1998.Resolving ambiguity for cross-language retrieval.ACM Sigir.Ballesteros, Lisa A.
2000.
Cross Language Retrievalvia Transitive Translation.
Advances inInformation Retrieval: 203-230.
Kluwer AcademicPublisher.Chasen.
http://chasen.naist.jp/hiki/ChaSen/.
Lastaccess: February 2004.Chen, Kuang-hua, et,al.
2003.
Overview of CLIR Taskat the Third NTCIR Workshop.
Proceedings of theThird NTCIR Workshop.Excite English-Japanese Online Machine Translation.http://www.excite.co.jp/world/.
Last access: April2004.Federico, M. and N. Bertoldi.
2002.
Statistical crosslanguage information retrieval using n-best querytranslations.
Proc.
Of 25th International ACMSigir.Fox, Christopher.
1989.
A stop list for general text.ACM Sigir, Vol 24:19-21, Issue 2 Fall 89/Winter90.Fujii, Atsushi and Tetsuya Ishikawa.
2003.
NTCIR-3cross-language IR experiments at ULIS.
Proc.
Ofthe Third NTCIR Workshop.Fujii, Atsushi and Katunobu Itou.
2003.
Building atest collection for speech driven web retrieval.Proceedings of the 8th European Conference onSpeech Communication and Technology.Gao, Jianfeng,  et, al.
2001.
Improving querytranslation for cross-language informationretrieval using statistical model.
Proc.
Sigir.Gollins, Tim and Mark Sanderson.
2001.
Improvingcross language information retrieval withtriangulated translation.
Proc.
Sigir.ToggleText, Kataku Automatic Translation System.http://www.toggletext.com/kataku_trial.php.
Lastaccess: May 2004.Information Retrieval Resources for BahasiaIndonesia.
Informatics Institute, University ofAmsterdam.
http://ilps.science.uva.nl/Resources/.Last access: Jan 2005.Kishida, Kazuaki and Noriko Kando.
2004.
Two-stagerefinement of query translation in a pivot languageapproach to cross-lingual information retrieval:An experiment at CLEF 2003.
CLEF 2003, LNCS3237: 253-262.Kosasih, E. 2003.
Kompetensi Ketatabahasaan danKesusastraan, Cermat Berbahasa Indonesia.Yrama Widya.Mainichi Shinbun CD-Rom data sets 1993-1995,Nichigai Associates Co., 1994-1996.Michibata, H., ed.
: Eijirou, Alc.
Last access:2002.Qu, Yan and G. Grefenstette, D. A. Evans.
2002.Resolving translation ambiguity using monolingualcorpora.
Advanced in Cross-Language InformationRetrieval, vol.
2785 of LNCS: 223-241.
SpringerVerlag.Sanggar Bahasa Indonesia Proyek: Kmsmini2000.http://ml.ryu.titech.ac.jp/~indonesia/tokodai/dokumen/ kamusjpina.pdf.
Last access: May 2004.Tanaka, Kumiko and Kyoji Umemura.
Constructionof a bilingual dictionary intermediated by a thirdlanguage.
COLING 1994, pages 297-303, Kyoto.Wikipedia on Indonesian Language.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Indonesian_language.Last access: May 2005.WordNet.
http://wordnet.princeton.edu/.
Last access:February 2004.Zu, Guowei, et, al.
2004.
Automatic TextClassification Techniques.
IEEJ Trans EIS, Vol.124, No.
3.8
