Linguistic Knowledge and Question AnsweringGosse BoumaInformation ScienceGroningen University{g.bouma}@rug.nlAbstractThe availability of robust and deep syntac-tic parsing can improve the performanceof Question Answering systems.
This isillustrated using examples from Joost, aDutch QA system which has been used forboth open (CLEF) and closed domain QA.1 Linguistically Informed IRInformation retrieval is used in most QA systemsto filter out relevant passages from large docu-ment collections to narrow down the search for an-swer extraction modules in a QA system.
Givena full syntactic analysis of the text collection, itbecomes feasible to exploit linguistic informationas a knowledge source for IR.
Using Apache?s IRsystem Lucene, we can index the document col-lection along various linguistic dimensions, suchas part of speech tags, named entity classes, anddependency relations.
Tiedemann (2005) uses agenetic algorithm to optimize the use of such anextended IR index, and shows that it leads to sig-nificant improvements of IR performance.2 Acquisition of Lexical KnowledgeSyntactic similarity measures can be used for au-tomatic acquisition of lexical knowledge requiredfor QA, as well as for answer extraction and rank-ing.
For instance, in van der Plas and Bouma(2005) it is shown that automatically acquiredclass-labels for named entities improve the ac-curacy of answering general WH-questions (i.e.Which ferry sank in the Baltic Sea?)
and questionswhich ask for the definition of a named entity (i.e.Who is Nelson Mandela?
or What is MTV?
).3 Off-line answer extractionOff-line extraction of answers to frequent ques-tion types can be based on dependency patternsand coreference resolution (Bouma et al, 2005;Mur and van der Plas, 2006), leading to higherrecall (compared to systems using surface pat-terns).
Closed-domain (medical) QA can bene-fit from the fact that dependency relations allowanswers to be identified for questions which arenot restricted to specific named entity classes, i.e.definitions, causes, symptoms, etc.
Answeringdefinition questions, for instance, is a task whichhas motivated approaches that go well beyond thetechniques used for answering factoid questions.In Fahmi and Bouma (2006) it is shown that syn-tactic patterns can be used to extract potential def-inition sentences from Wikipedia, and that syn-tactic features of these sentences (in combinationwith obvious clues such as the position of the sen-tence in the document) can be used to improve theaccuracy of an automatic classifier which distin-guishes definitions from non-definitions in the ex-tracted data set.4 JoostJoost is a QA system for Dutch which incorporatesthe features mentioned above, using the Alpinoparser for Dutch to parse (offline) the documentcollections as well as (interactively) user ques-tions.
It has been used for the open-domain mono-lingual QA task of CLEF 2005, as well as forclosed domain medical QA.
For CLEF, the fullDutch text collection (4 years of newspaper text,approximately 80 million words) has been parsed.For the medical QA system, we have been usinga mixture of texts from general and medical ency-clopedia, medical reference works, and web pages2 KRAQ06dedicated to medical topics.
The medical data arefrom mixed sources and contain a fair amount ofdomain specific terminology.
Although the Alpinosystem is robust enough to deal with such material,we believe that the accuracy of linguistic analysison this task can be further improved by incorporat-ing domain specific terminological resources.
Weare currently investigating methods for acquiringsuch knowledge automatically from the encyclo-pedia sources.ReferencesGosse Bouma, Jori Mur, and Gertjan van Noord.
2005.Reasoning over dependency relations for QA.
InProceedings of the IJCAI workshop on Knowledgeand Reasoning for Answering Questions (KRAQ),pages 15?21, Edinburgh.Ismail Fahmi and Gosse Bouma.
2006.
Learningto identify definitions using syntactic features.
InRoberto Basili and Alessandro Moschitti, editors,Proceedings of the EACL workshop on LearningStructured Information in Natural Language Appli-cations, Trento, Italy.Jori Mur and Lonneke van der Plas.
2006.
Anaphoraresolution for off-line answer extraction using in-stances.
submitted.Jo?rg Tiedemann.
2005.
Integrating linguistic knowl-edge in passage retrieval for question answering.
InProceedings of EMNLP 2005, pages 939?946, Van-couver.Lonneke van der Plas and Gosse Bouma.
2005.
Auto-matic acquisition of lexico-semantic knowledge forquestion answering.
In Proceedings of Ontolex 2005?
Ontologies and Lexical Resources, Jeju Island,South Korea.3 KRAQ06
