Automatic Extraction of Chinese Multiword Expressions with a Statis-tical ToolScott S.L.
Piao1s.piao@lancaster.ac.ukGuangfan Sun2morgan2001_sun@sohu.comPaul Rayson1paul@comp.lancs.ac.ukQi Yuan2yq@trans.ccidnet.com1UCRELComputing DepartmentLancaster UniversityLancaster, UK2CIPOLChina Centre for Information Industry De-velopment (CCID)Beijing, ChinaAbstractIn this paper, we report on our experi-ment to extract Chinese multiword ex-pressions from corpus resources as partof a larger research effort to improve amachine translation (MT) system.
For ex-isting MT systems, the issue of multi-word expression (MWE) identificationand accurate interpretation from source totarget language remains an unsolvedproblem.
Our initial test on the Chinese-to-English translation functions ofSystran and CCID?s Huan-Yu-Tong MTsystems reveal that, where MWEs are in-volved, MT tools suffer in terms of bothcomprehensibility and adequacy of thetranslated texts.
For MT systems to be-come of further practical use, they needto be enhanced with MWE processingcapability.
As part of our study towardsthis goal, we test and evaluate a statisticaltool, which was developed for English,for identifying and extracting ChineseMWEs.
In our evaluation, the toolachieved precisions ranging from 61.16%to 93.96% for different types of MWEs.Such results demonstrate that it is feasi-ble to automatically identify many Chi-nese MWEs using our tool, although itneeds further improvement.1 IntroductionIn real-life human communication, meaning isoften conveyed by word groups, or meaninggroups, rather than by single words.
Very often,it is difficult to interpret human speech word byword.
Consequently, for an MT system, it is im-portant to identify and interpret accurate meaningof such word groups, or multiword expressions(MWE hereafter), in a source language and in-terpret them accurately in a target language.However, accurate identification and interpreta-tion of MWEs still remains an unsolved problemin MT research.In this paper, we present our experiment onidentifying Chinese MWEs using a statisticaltool for MT purposes.
Here, by multiword ex-pressions, we refer to word groups whose con-stituent words have strong collocational relationsand which can be translated in the target lan-guage into stable translation equivalents, eithersingle words or MWEs, e.g.
noun phrases,prepositional phrases etc.
They may includetechnical terminology in specific domains as wellas more general fixed expressions and idioms.Our observations found that existing Chinese-English MT systems cannot satisfactorily trans-late MWEs, although some may employ a ma-chine-readable bilingual dictionary of idioms.Whereas highly compositional MWEs may posea trivial challenge to human speakers for inter-pretation, they present a tough challenge for fullyautomatic MT systems to produce even remotelyfluent translations.
Therefore, in our context, weexpand the concept of MWE to include thosecompositional ones which have relatively stableidentifiable patterns of translations in the targetlanguage.By way of illustration of the challenge, we ex-perimented with simple Chinese sentences con-taining some commonly-used MWEs inSYSTRAN (http://www.systransoft.com/) andHuan-Yu-Tong (HYT henceforth) of CCID(China Centre for Information Industry Devel-opment) (Sun, 2004).
The former is one of themost efficient MT systems today, claiming to be?the leading provider of the world?s most scal-able and modular translation architecture?, whilethe latter is one of the most successful MT sys-tems in China.
Table 1 shows the result, whereSL and TL denote source and target languagesrespectively.. As shown by the samples, such17highly sophisticated MT tools still struggle toproduce adequate English sentences..ChineseSentencesEnglish(Systran)English(HYT)?????????
?????
?This afternooncan practice aball game?
Ihope not to beable.Can practise aball game thisafternoon?
I hopecan not.???????????????
?You may notsuch do, let uspay respec-tively each.You cannot dolike that, and letus make it Dutch.??????????????????????
?Perhaps doesnot have themeans to letyou sit shares atable, did youmind sits sepa-rately?Perhaps no wayout(ly) let you sitwith table, areyou situated be-tween not mindto separate to sit?????????
?Selects themilk coffeewhich ices.Ice breasts coffeetake is selected.?????????????
?Good, I wantthe beer, againcomes to selectthe coffee.Alright, I wantbeer, and take thecoffee of order-ing again.Table 1: Samples of Chinese-to-English transla-tions of Systran and HYT.Ignoring the eccentric English syntactic struc-tures these tools produced, we focus on the trans-lations of Chinese MWEs (see the italic charac-ters in the Table 1) which have straightforwardexpression equivalents in English.
For example,in this context,  ????
can be translated into?hope not?, ???
into ?go Dutch?, ??
into?together?
or ?at the same table?, ???
into?white coffee?
or ?coffee with milk?, ??
?into ?want some more (in addition to somethingalready ordered)?.
While these Chinese MWEsare highly compositional ones, when they aretranslated word by word, we see verbose andawkward translations (for correct translations,see the appendix).To solve such problems, we need algorithmsand tools for identifying MWEs in the sourcelanguage (Chinese in this case) and to accuratelymap them to their adequate translation equiva-lents in the target language (English in our case)that are appropriate for given contexts.
In theprevious examples, an MT tool should be able toidentify the Chinese MWE ???
and eitherprovide the literal translation of ?pay for each?
ormap it to the more idomatic expressions of ?goDutch?.Obviously, it would involve a wide range ofissues and techniques for a satisfactory solutionto this problem.
In this paper, we focus on thesub-issue of automatically recognising and ex-tracting Chinese MWEs.
Specifically, we testand evaluate a statistical tool for automaticMWE extraction in Chinese corpus data.
As theresults of our experiment demonstrate, the tool iscapable of identifying many MWEs with littlelanguage-specific knowledge.
Coupled with anMT system, such a tool could be useful for ad-dressing the MWE issue.2 Related WorkThe issue of MWE processing has attractedmuch attention from the Natural Language Proc-essing (NLP) community, including Smadja,1993; Dagan and Church, 1994; Daille, 1995;1995; McEnery et al, 1997; Wu, 1997; Michielsand Dufour, 1998; Maynard and Ananiadou,2000; Merkel and Andersson, 2000; Piao andMcEnery, 2001; Sag et al, 2001; Tanaka andBaldwin, 2003;  Dias, 2003; Baldwin et al,2003; Nivre and Nilsson, 2004 Pereira et al.2004; Piao et al, 2005.
Study in this area coversa wide range of sub-issues, including MWE iden-tification and extraction from monolingual andmultilingual corpora, classification of MWEsaccording to a variety of viewpoints such astypes, compositionality and alignment of MWEsacross different languages.
However studies inthis area on Chinese language are limited.A number of approaches have been suggested,including rule-based and statistical approaches,and have achieved success to various extents.Despite this research, however, MWE processingstill presents a tough challenge, and it has beenreceiving increasing attention, as exemplified byrecent MWE-related ACL workshops.Directly related to our work is the develop-ment of a statistical MWE tool at Lancaster forsearching and identifying English MWEs in run-ning text (Piao et al, 2003, 2005).
Trained oncorpus data in a given domain or genre, this toolcan automatically identify MWEs in running textor extract MWEs from corpus data from thesimilar domain/genre (see further informationabout this tool in section 3.1).
It has been testedand compared with an English semantic tagger(Rayson et al, 2004) and was found to be effi-cient in identifying domain-specific MWEs inEnglish corpora, and complementary to the se-18mantic tagger which relies on a large manuallycompiled lexicon.Other directly related work includes the de-velopment of the HYT MT system at CCID inBeijing, China.
It has been under developmentsince 1991 (Sun, 2004) and it is one of the mostsuccessful MT systems in China.
However, beinga mainly rule-based system, its performance de-grades when processing texts from domains pre-viously unknown to its knowledge database.
Re-cently a corpus-based approach has been adoptedfor its improvement, and efforts are being madeto improve its capability of processing MWEs.Our main interest in this study is in the appli-cation of a MWE identification tool to the im-provement of MT system.
As far as we know,there has not been a satisfactory solution to theefficient handling of Chinese MWEs in MT sys-tems, and our experiment contributes to a deeperunderstanding of this problem.3 Automatic Identification and extrac-tion of Chinese MWEsIn order to test the feasibility of automaticidentification and extraction of Chinese MWEson a large scale, we used an existing statisticaltool built for English and a Chinese corpus builtat CCID.
A CCID tool is used for tokenizing andPOS-tagging the Chinese corpus.
The result wasthoroughly manually checked by Chinese expertsat CCID.
In this paper, we aim to evaluate thisexisting tool from two perspectives a) its per-formance on MWE extraction, and b) its per-formance on a language other than English.
Inthe following sections, we describe our experi-ment in detail and discuss main issues that aroseduring the course of our experiment.3.1 MWE extraction toolThe tool we used for the experiment exploitsstatistical collocational information betweennear-context words (Piao et al, 2005).
It firstcollects collocates within a given scanning win-dow, and then searches for MWEs using the col-locational information as a statistical dictionary.As the collocational information can be extractedon the fly from the corpus to be processed for areasonably large corpus, this process is fullyautomatic.
To search for MWEs in a small cor-pus, such as a few sentences, the tool needs to betrained on other corpus data in advance.With regards to the statistical measure of col-location, the option of several formulae areavailable, including mutual information and loglikelihood, etc.
Our past experience shows thatlog-likelihood provides an efficient metric forcorpus data of moderate sizes.
Therefore it isused in our experiment.
It is calculated as fol-lows (Scott, 2001).For a given pair of words X and Y and a searchwindow W, let a be the number of windows inwhich X and Y co-occur, let b be the number ofwindows in which only X occurs, let c be thenumber of windows in which only Y occurs, andlet d be the number of windows in which none ofthem occurs, thenG2 = 2 (alna + blnb + clnc + dlnd - (a+b)ln(a+b)- (a+c)ln(a+c) - (b+d)ln(b+d)- (c+d)ln(c+d)) + (a+b+c+d)ln(a+b+c+d))In addition to the log-likelihood, the t-score isused to filter out insignificant co-occurrenceword pairs (Fung and Church, 1994), which iscalculated as follows:),(1)()(),(bababaWWprobMWprobWprobWWprobt?=In order to filter out weak collocates, a thresh-old is often used, i.e.
in the stage of collocationextraction, any pairs of items producing wordaffinity scores lower than a given threshold areexcluded from the MWE searching process.
Fur-thermore, in order to avoid the noise caused byfunctional words and some extremely frequentwords, a stop word list is used to filter suchwords out from the process.If the corpus data is POS-tagged, some simplePOS patterns can be used to filter certain syntac-tic patterns from the candidates.
It can either beimplemented as an internal part of the process, oras a post-process.
In our case, such pattern filtersare mostly applied to the output of the MWEsearching tool in order to allow the tool to belanguage-independent as much as possible.Consequently, for our experiment, the majoradjustment to the tool was to add a Chinese stopword list.
Because the tool is based on Unicode,the stop words of different languages can be keptin a single file, avoiding any need for adjustingthe program itself.
Unless different languagesinvolved happen to share words with the sameform, this practice is safe and reliable.
In our par-ticular case, because we are dealing with Englishand Chinese, which use widely different charac-ters, such a practice performs well.19Another language-specific adjustment neededwas to use a Chinese POS-pattern filter for se-lecting various patterns of the candidate MWEs(see Table 6).
As pointed out previously, it wasimplemented as a simple pattern-matching pro-gram that is separate from the MWE tool itself,hence minimizing the modification needed forporting the tool from English to Chinese lan-guage.A major advantage of this tool is its capabilityof identifying MWEs of various lengths whichare generally representative of the given topic ordomain.
Furthermore, for English it was foundeffective in extracting domain-specific multi-word terms and expressions which are not in-cluded in manually compiled lexicons and dic-tionaries.
Indeed, due to the open-ended natureof such MWEs, any manually compiled lexicons,however large they may be, are unlikely to coverthem exhaustively.
It is also efficient in findingnewly emerging MWEs, particularly technicalterms, that reflect the changes in the real world.3.2 ExperimentIn this experiment, our main aim was to exam-ine the feasibility of practical application of theMWE tool as a component of an MT system,therefore we used test data from some domainsin which translation services are in strong de-mand.
We selected Chinese corpus data of ap-proximately 696,000 tokenised words (includingpunctuation marks) which cover the topics offood, transportation, tourism, sports (includingthe Olympics) and business.In our experiment, we processed the textsfrom different topics together.
These topics arerelated to each other under the themes of enter-tainment and business.
Therefore we assume, bymixing the data together, we could examine theperformance of the MWE tool in processing datafrom a broad range of related domains.
We ex-pect that the different features of texts from dif-ferent domains will have a certain impact on theresult, but the examination of such impact is be-yond the scope of this paper.As mentioned earlier, the Chinese word to-keniser and POS tagger used in our experimenthas been developed at CCID.
It is an efficienttool running with accuracy of 98% for word to-kenisation and 95% for POS annotation.
It em-ploys a part-of-speech tagset of 15 categoriesshown in Table 2.
Although it is not a finelygrained tagset, it meets the need for creating POSpattern filters for MWE extraction.N NameV VerbA AdjectiveF AdverbR PronounI PrepositionJ ConjunctionU NumberS classifier (measure word)G Auxiliary verbE Accessory wordL directional nounP PunctuationH OnomatopoeiaX Subject-predicate phraseTable 2: CCID Chinese tagsetSince function words are found to cause noisein the process of MWE identification, a Chinesestop list was collected.
First, a word frequencylist was extracted.
Next, the top items were con-sidered and we selected 70 closed class words forthe stop word list.
When the program searchesfor MWEs, such words are ignored.The threshold of word affinity strength is an-other issue to be addressed.
In this experiment,we used log-likelihood to measure the strength ofcollocation between word pairs.
Generally thelog-likelihood score of 6.6 (p < 0.01 or 99% con-fidence) is recommended as the threshold (Ray-son et al, 2004), but it was found to produce toomany false candidates in our case.
Based on ourinitial trials, we used a higher threshold of 30,i.e.
any word pairs producing log-likelihoodscore less than this value are ignored in theMWE searching process.
Furthermore, for thesake of the reliability of the statistical score,when extracting collocates, a frequency thresholdof five was used to filter out low-frequencywords, i.e.
word pairs with frequencies less thanfive were ignored.An interesting issue for us in this experimentis the impact of the length of collocation search-ing window on the MWE identification.
For thispurpose, we tested two search window lengths 2and 3, and compared the results obtained by us-ing them.
Our initial hypothesis was that theshorter window length may produce higher pre-cision while the longer window length may sacri-fice precision but boost the MWE coverage.The output of the tool was manually checkedby Chinese experts at CCID, including crosschecking to guarantee the reliability of the re-sults.
There were some MWE candidates onwhich disagreements arose.
In such cases, the20candidate was counted as false.
Furthermore, inorder to estimate the recall, experts manuallyidentified MWEs in the whole test corpus, so thatthe output of the automatic tool could be com-pared against it.
In the following section, wepresent a detailed report on our evaluation of theMWE tool.3.3 EvaluationWe first evaluated the overall precision of thetool.
A total of 7,142 MWE candidates (types)were obtained for window lengths of 2, of which4,915 were accepted as true MWEs, resulting ina precision of 68.82%.
On the other hand, a totalof 8,123 MWE candidates (types) were obtainedfor window lengths of 3, of which 4,968 wereaccepted as true MWEs, resulting in a precisionof 61.16%.
This result is in agreement with ourhypothesis that shorter search window lengthtends to produce higher precision.Next, we estimated the recall based on themanually analysed data.
When we compared theaccepted MWEs from the automatic resultagainst the manually collected ones, we foundthat the experts tend to mark longer MWEs,which often contain the items identified by theautomatic tool.
For example, the manuallymarked MWE ??
??
??
??
(develop-ment plan for the tennis sport) contains shorterMWEs ??
??
(tennis sport) and??
??
(development plan) which were identified by thetool separately.
So we decided to take the partialmatches into account when we estimate the re-call.
We found that a total 14,045 MWEs weremanually identified and, when the search win-dow length was set to two and three, 1,988 and2,044 of them match the automatic output, pro-ducing recalls of 14.15% and 14.55% respectively.It should be noted that many of the manually ac-cepted MWEs from the automatic output werenot found in the manual MWE collection.
Thisdiscrepancy was likely caused by the manualanalysis being carried out independently of theautomatic tool, resulting in a lower recall thanexpected.
Table 3 lists the precisions and recalls.Window length = 2 Window length = 3Precision Recall Precision Recall68.82% 14.15% 61.16% 14.55%Table 3: Overall precisions and recallsFurthermore, we evaluated the performance ofthe MWE tool from two aspects: frequency andMWE pattern.Generally speaking, statistical algorithmswork better on items of higher frequency as itdepends on the collocational information.
How-ever, our tool does not select MWEs directlyfrom the collocates.
Rather, it uses the colloca-tional information as a statistical dictionary andsearches for word sequences whose constituentwords have significantly strong collocationalbonds between them.
As a result, it is capable ofidentifying many low-frequency MWEs.
Table 4lists the breakdown of the precision for five fre-quency bands (window length = 2).Freq Candidates True MWEs Precision>= 100 17 9 52.94%10 ~ 99 846 646 76.36%3 ~ 9 2,873 2,178 75.81%2 949 608 64.07%1 2,457 1,474 59.99%Total 7,142 4,915 68.82%Table 4: Breakdown of precision for frequencies(window length = 2).As shown in the table above, the highest preci-sions were obtained for the frequency range be-tween 3 and 99.
However, 2,082 of the acceptedMWEs have frequencies of one or two, account-ing for 42.36% of the total accepted MWEs.Such a result demonstrates again that our tool iscapable of identifying low-frequency items.
Aninteresting result is for the top frequency band(greater than 100).
Against our general assump-tion that higher frequency brings higher preci-sion, we saw the lowest precision in the table forthis band.
Our manual examination reveals thiswas caused by the high frequency numbers, suchas ?one?
or ?two?
in the expressions ????
(a/one) and ????
( a kind of).
This type of ex-pression were classified as uninteresting candi-dates in the manual checking, resulting in highererror rates for the high frequency band.When we carry out a parallel evaluation forthe case of searching window length of 3, we seea similar distribution of precision across the fre-quency bands except that the lowest frequencyband has the lowest precision, as shown by Table5.
When we compare this table against Table 4,we can see, for all of the frequency bands exceptthe top one, that the precision drops as the searchwindow increases.
This further supports our ear-lier assumption that wider searching windowtends to reduce the precision.21Freq candidates true MWEs Precision>= 100 17 9 52.94%10 ~ 99 831 597 71.84%3 ~ 9 3,093 2,221 71.81%2 1,157 669 57.82%1 3,025 1,472 48.66%Total 8,123 4,968 61.16%Table 5: Breakdown of precision for frequencies(window length = 3).In fact, not only the top frequency band, muchof the errors of the total output were found to becaused by the numbers that frequently occur inthe test data, e.g.
?_U ?_S (one), ?_U ?_S(two) etc.
When a POS filter was used to filterthem out, for the window length 2, we obtained atotal 5,660 candidates, of which 4,386 were ac-cepted as true MWEs, producing a precision of77.49%.
Similarly for the window length 3, atotal of 6,526 candidates were extracted in thisway and 4,685 of them were accepted as trueMWEs, yielding a precision of 71.79%.Another factor affecting the performance ofthe tool is the type of MWEs.
In order to exam-ine the potential impact of MWE types to theperformance of the tool, we used filters to selectMWEs of the following three patterns:1) AN: Adjective + noun structure;2) NN: Noun + noun Structure;3) FV: Adverb + Verb.Table 6 lists the precision for each of theMWE types and for search window lengths of 2and 3.Search window length = 2Pattern Candidate True MWEs PrecisionA+N 236 221 93.64%N+N 644 589 91.46%F+V 345 321 93.04%total 1,225 1,131 92.33%Search window length = 3Pattern Candidate True MWEs PrecisionA+N 259 233 89.96%N+N 712 635 89.19%F+V 381 358 93.96%Total 1,352 1,226 90.68%Table 6: Precisions for three types of MWEsAs shown in the table, the MWE tool achievedhigh precisions above 91% when we use a searchwindow of two words.
Even when the searchwindow expands to three words, the tool stillobtained precision around 90%.
In particular, thetool is efficient for the verb phrase type.
Such aresult demonstrates that, when we constrain thesearch algorithm to some specific types ofMWEs, we can obtain higher precisions.
Whileone may argue that rule-based parser can do thesame work, it must be noted that we are not in-terested in all grammatical phrases, but thosewhich reflect the features of the given domain.This is achieved by combining statistical wordcollocation measures, a searching strategy andsimple POS pattern filters.Another interesting finding in our experimentis that our tool extracted clauses, such as?????
(What would you like to drink?)
and??????
(Would you like a drink first?).
Theclauses occur only once or twice in the entire testdata, but were recognized by the tool because ofthe strong collocational bond between their con-stituent words.
The significance of such per-formance is that such clauses are typical expres-sions which are frequently used in real-life con-versation in the contexts of the canteen, tourismetc.
Such a function of our tool may have practi-cal usage in automatically collecting longer typi-cal expressions for the given domains.4 DiscussionAs our experiment demonstrates, our tool pro-vides a practical means of identifying and ex-tracting domain specific MWEs with a minimumamount of linguistic knowledge.
This becomesimportant in multilingual tasks in which it can becostly and time consuming to build comprehen-sive rules for several languages.
In particular, itis capable of detecting MWEs of various lengths,sometimes whole clauses, which are often typicalof the given domains of the corpus data.
For ex-ample, in our experiment, the tool successfullyidentified several daily used long expressions inthe domain of food and tourism.
MT systemsoften suffer when translating conversation.
Anefficient MWE tool can potentially alleviate theproblem by extracting typical clauses used indaily life and mapping them to adequate transla-tions in the target language.Despite the flexibility of the statistical tool,however, there is a limit to its performance interms of precision.
While it is quite efficient inproviding MWE candidates, its output has to beeither verified by human or refined by using lin-guistic rules.
In our particular case, we improvedthe precision of our tool by employing simplePOS pattern filters.
Another limitation of thistool is that currently it can only recognise con-tinuous MWEs.
A more flexible searching algo-22rithm is needed to identify discontinuous MWEs,which are important for NLP tasks.Besides the technical problem, a major unre-solved issue we face is what constitutes MWEs.Despite agreement on the core MWE types, suchas idioms and highly idiosyncratic expressions,like ??
(Cheng-Yu) in Chinese, it is difficult toreach agreement on less fixed expressions.We contend that MWEs may have differentdefinitions for different research purposes.
Forexample, for dictionary compilation, lexicogra-phers tend to constrain MWEs to highly non-compositional expressions (Moon, 1998: 18).This is because monolingual dictionary users caneasily understand compositional MWEs andthere is no need to include them in a dictionaryfor native speakers.
For lexicon compilationaimed at practical NLP tasks, however, we mayapply a looser definition of MWEs.
For example,in the Lancaster semantic lexicon (Rayson et al,2004), compositional word groups such as?youth club?
are considered as MWEs alongsidenon-compositional expressions such as ?food forthought?
as they depict single semantic units orconcepts.
Furthermore, for the MT researchcommunity whose primary concern is cross-language interpretation, any multiword units thathave stable translation equivalent(s) in a targetlanguage can be of interest.As we discussed earlier, a highly idiomaticexpression in a language can be translated into ahighly compositional expression in another lan-guage, and vice versa.
In such situations, it canbe more practically useful to identify and maptranslation equivalents between the source andtarget languages regardless of their level of com-positionality.Finally, the long Chinese clauses identified bythe tool can potentially be useful for the im-provement of MT systems.
In fact, most of themare colloquial expressions in daily conversation,and many such Chinese expressions are difficultto parse syntactically.
It may be more feasible toidentify such expressions and map them as awhole to English equivalent expressions.
Thesame may apply to technical terms, jargon andslang.
In our experiment, our tool demonstratedits capability of detecting such expressions, andwill prove useful in this regard.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have reported on our experi-ment of automatic extraction of Chinese MWEsusing a statistical tool originally developed forEnglish.
Our statistical tool produced encourag-ing results, although further improvement isneeded to become practically applicable for MTsystem in terms of recall.
Indeed, for some con-strained types of MWEs, high precisions above90% have been achieved.
This shows, enhancedwith some linguistic filters, it can provide a prac-tically useful tool for identifying and extractingMWEs.
Furthermore, in our experiment, our tooldemonstrated its capability of multilingual proc-essing.
With only minor adjustment, it can beported to other languages.
Meanwhile, furtherstudy is needed for a fuller understanding of thefactors affecting the performance of statisticaltools, including the text styles and topic/domainsof the texts, etc.AcknowledgementThis work was supported by the National NaturalScience Foundation of China (grant no.60520130297) and the British Academy (grantno.
SG-42140).ReferencesBiber, D., Conrad, S., Cortes, V., 2003.
Lexical bun-dles in speech and writing: an initial taxonomy.
In:Wilson, A., Rayson P., McEnery, T.
(Eds.
), CorpusLinguistics by the Lune: A Festschrift for GeoffreyLeech.
Peter Lang, Frankfurt.
pp.
71-92.Baldwin, T., Bannard, C., Tanaka, T. and Widdows,D.
2003 An Empirical Model of Multiword Ex-pression Decomposability, In Proceedings of theACL-2003 Workshop on Multiword Expressions:Analysis, Acquisition and Treatment, Sapporo, Ja-pan, pp.
89?96.Dagan, I., Church, K., 1994.
Termight: identifyingand translating technical terminology.
In: Proceed-ings of the 4th Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing, Stuttgart, German.
pp.
34-40.Daille, B., 1995.
Combined approach for terminologyextraction: lexical statistics and linguistic filtering.Technical paper 5, UCREL, Lancaster University.Dias, G., 2003.
Multiword unit hybrid extraction.
In:Proceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Ex-pressions: Analysis, Acquisition and Treatment, atACL'03, Sapporo, Japan.
pp.
41-48.Dunning, T., 1993.
Accurate methods for the statisticsof surprise and coincidence.
Computational Lin-guistics 19 (1), 61-74.Fung, P., Church, K., 1994.
K-vec: a new approachfor aligning parallel texts.
In: Proceedings of COL-ING '94, Kyoto, Japan.
pp.
1996-2001.23Maynard, D., Ananiadou, S., 2000.
Trucks: a modelfor automatic multiword term recognition.
Journalof Natural Language Processing 8 (1), 101-126.McEnery, T., Lange, J. M., Oakes, M., Vernonis, J..,1997.
The exploitation of multilingual annotatedcorpora for term extraction.
In: Garside, R., Leech,G., McEnery, A.
(Eds.
), Corpus Annotation ---Linguistic Information from Computer Text Cor-pora.
Longman,  London & New York.
pp 220-230.Merkel, M., Andersson, M., 2000.
Knowledge-liteextraction of multi-word units with language filtersand entropy thresholds.
In: Proceedings of 2000Conference User-Oriented Content-Based Text andImage Handling (RIAO'00), Paris, France.
pp.
737-746.Michiels, A., Dufour, N., 1998.
DEFI, a tool forautomatic multi-word unit recognition, meaningassignment and translation selection.
In: Proceed-ings of the First International Conference on Lan-guage Resources & Evaluation, Granada, Spain.pp.
1179-1186.Moon, R. 1998.
Fixed expressions and idioms in Eng-lish: a corpus-based approach.
Clarendon Press:Oxford.Nivre, J., Nilsson, J., 2004.
Multiword units in syntac-tic parsing.
In: Proceedings of LREC-04 Workshopon Methodologies & Evaluation of MultiwordUnits in Real-world Applications, Lisbon, Portugal.pp.
37-46.Pereira, R., Crocker, P., Dias, G., 2004.
A parallelmultikey quicksort algorithm for mining multiwordunits.
In: Proceedings of LREC-04 Workshop onMethodologies & Evaluation of Multiword Units inReal-world Applications, Lisbon, Portugal.
pp.
17-23.Piao, S. L., Rayson, P., Archer, D. and McEnery, T.2005.
Comparing and Combining A Semantic Tag-ger and A Statistical Tool for MWE Extraction.Computer Speech & Language Volume 19, Issue 4,pp.
378-397.Piao, S.L , Rayson, P., Archer, D., Wilson, A. andMcEnery, T. 2003.
Extracting multiword expres-sions with a semantic tagger.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Multiword Expressions: Analysis,Acquisition and Treatment, at ACL'03, Sapporo,Japan, pp.
49-56.Piao, S., McEnery, T., 2001.
Multi-word unit align-ment in English-Chinese parallel corpora.
In: Pro-ceedings of the Corpus Linguistics 2001, Lancas-ter, UK.
pp.
466-475.Rayson, P., Archer, D., Piao, S. L., McEnery, T.2004.
The UCREL semantic analysis system.
Inproceedings of the workshop on Beyond NamedEntity Recognition Semantic labelling for NLPtasks in association with LREC 2004, Lisbon, Por-tugal, pp.
7-12.Rayson, P., Berridge, D. and Francis, B.
2004.
Ex-tending the Cochran rule for the comparison ofword frequencies between corpora.
In Proceedingsof the 7th International Conference on Statisticalanalysis of textual data (JADT 2004), Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.
pp.
926-936.Sag, I., Baldwin, T., Bond, F., Copestake, A., Dan, F.,2001.
Multiword expressions: a pain in the neckfor NLP.
LinGO Working Paper No.
2001-03,Stanford University, CA.Scott, M., 2001.
Mapping key words to problem andsolution.
In: Scott, M., Thompson, G.
(Eds.
), Pat-terns of Text: in Honour of Michael Hoey.
Benja-mins, Amsterdam.
pp.
109 ?
127.Smadja, F., 1993.
Retrieving collocations from text:Xtract.
Computational Linguistics 19 (1), 143-177.Sun, G. 2004.
Design of an Interlingua-Based Chi-nese-English Machine Translation System.
In Pro-ceedings of the 5th China-Korea Joint Symposiumon Oriental Language Processing and Pattern Rec-ognition, Qingdao, China.
pp.
129-134.Tanaka, T., Baldwin, T., 2003.
Noun-noun compoundmachine translation: a feasibility study on shallowprocessing.
In: Proceedings of the ACL-03 Work-shop on Multiword Expressions: Analysis, Acquisi-tion and Treatment, Sapporo, Japan.
pp.
17-24.Wu, D., 1997.
Stochastic inversion transductiongrammars and bilingual parsing of parallel corpora.Computational Linguistics 23 (3), 377-401.Appendix: English translations of thesample Chinese sentences1.
?????????
?????
?Tran: Do we have (football) training this af-ternoon?
I hope not.2.
???????????????
?Tran: You can?t do that.
Let?s go Dutch.3.
??????????????????????
?Tran: I am afraid I can?t arrange for you to sitat the same table.
Would you mind ifyou sit separately?4.
????????
?Tran: I?d like iced white coffee (please).5.
?????????????
?Tran: OK, I want beer and some coffee(please).24
