Anaphora Resolution and Minimal ModelsAriel CohenBen-Gurion University, Israelarikc@ bgu.
ac.
ilAbstractSome anaphora resolution algorithms are based on model builders, and use thefact that they generate minimal models: only those elements that are necessaryare postulated to exist in the model.
In this way, such systems have the desirableproperty that if anaphora can be resolved to a linguistically available antecedent,this resolution applies, and only if there is no suitable antecedent, a deictic readingis generated.In this paper I formalize the entailments that follow from such anaphora reso-lution algorithms.
In particular, I will suggest a simple, linguistically motivated,underspecified representation for anaphora?DRT, and place the burden of the res-olution of anaphora and its consequences on an independently motivated logic fordefault reasoning?Default Logic.1 IntroductionConsider a simple case of ambiguous anaphoric reference:(1) I had gone to see John before I visited Bill and Mary.
He doesn?t wantto speak with her.What can we say about the resolution of the anaphora?
The pronoun herprobably refers to Mary; the pronoun he is ambiguous between John and Bill,but most likely refers to John.
And either pronoun (or both) may be useddeictically, referring to some other individual that is not denoted by a linguisticantecedent.
What we would like is a system that allows us to represent allthese options, pick those we consider plausible, and draw some inferences evenin the absence of a clear resolution.Intuitively, the deictic interpretation is dispreferred; we will assume it onlyif there is no suitable linguistic antecedent.
An elegant explanation of this factcan be provided by anaphora resolution algorithms that use domain buildingtechniques (e.g., [1,10,11]).
Model builders receive as input a set of proposi-tions, and produce a model for them if such exists.
Typically, the models sogenerated are minimal, i.e.
models whose domain is only as large as it needs tobe.
Thus, if the referent of the pronoun can be identified with a linguistic an-tecedent, no additional elements need to be postulated.
Only if this turns outto be impossible, will an additional element be added to the model, resultingin the deictic reading.The goal of this paper is not to propose new algorithms, but to formalizethe idea of using minimal models to resolve (pronominal) anaphora, and theconclusions that can be drawn by such a system in case the anaphora is notresolved.
12 An Underspecified Representation for AnaphoraAs the discourse in (1) exemplifies, anaphora is often ambiguous.
Moreover,the deictic possibility always exists, so it is always possible, in principle, thatwhat we had identified as the antecedent of a pronoun actually is not, and thepronoun is used deictically.
In the case of (1), since we have two pronouns,one with three possible interpretations (John, Bill, or the deictic use) and theother with two (Mary or deictic), we will have six potential interpretations.We need to be able to represent the ambiguity, but still draw inferences as bestwe can on the basis of what we know.
This calls for some sort of underspecifiedrepresentation, and some inference mechanism to derive conclusions from it.Many special formalisms have been proposed, whose sole purpose is toallow efficient representation of and reasoning with underspecification.
I willnot, however, go down this road, for several reasons.
A formalism that is notindependently motivated on linguistic grounds, and whose sole justificationis to represent underspecification, may work in a practical system, but itsexplanatory adequacy from a linguistic point of view would be dubious.
Togive one example, recall that deictic readings of a pronoun are always possible,and this is the case across languages.
Why is this?
Why don?t we havelanguages where pronouns are restricted to linguistic antecedents only, anddeictic readings are indicated only by, say, demonstratives?
A formalism thatis only geared toward underspecification would be quite adequate if pronounscould only refer to linguistic antecedents, and it is hard to see why it wouldnecessitate the availability of deictic readings.
It is, of course, preferable tohave the possibility of deictic readings follow directly from the representation,thus explaining the puzzle.Furthermore, a nonstandard representation will typically require nonstan-dard inference methods, especially tailored for the representation.
2 Again,these inference methods would not be independently justified, unlike rules ofcommon-sense inference that must, in one way or another, be used in order tounderstand natural language.1 While this paper only deals with pronominal anaphora, the approach may be extendedto handle definite descriptions?see [6,7]) for an account based on model building.2 Though see [15], who uses a nonstandard representation of anaphora, but applies DefaultLogic to generate its perceived readings.An additional reason for keeping the representation as simple and as closeto standard linguistic representations as possible is the fact that it is not likelyto be replaced by a fully specified representation during the interpretationprocess.
Normally, one uses an underspecified representation in the hopethat, in the fullness of time, or as the need arises, it will be fully specified.
Inthis sense, an underspecified representation is only a ?temporary measure.
?However, because it is always possible to interpret pronouns deictically, we cannever fully specify the representation.
The possibility always exists that wewill receive later some information that will force us to interpret the pronoundeictically and undo our previous resolution.
Hence, the representation ofanaphora cannot be treated as a temporary measure, and must be as close aspossible to the fully motivated representation.In this paper I am going to suggest that we don?t need to look far for arepresentation and its associated inference method.
A standard, linguisticallymotivated representation, without special machinery for underspecification,will do.
3 For concreteness, I choose Discourse Representation Theory ([9]).Thus, for example, the discourse in (1) will be represented by the followingDRS (here and elsewhere, ignoring tense and the possibility of a collectivereading of the conjunction):(2)x y z u vJohn(x)Bill(y)Mary(z)go-to-see(I,x)visit(I,y)visit(I,z)male(u)female(v)?want-to-speak(u,v)Note that this DRS does not resolve the anaphora.
In this representation,u and v are subject to existential closure, and all we know is that some an-tecedent exists.
So, in effect, the DRS (2) is an underspecified representation,containing all the possible ways of resolving the anaphora.
Any specific res-olution of the anaphora results in the addition of equalities identifying thereferents of the pronouns.
For example:3 Of course, it may be the case that some sort of special underspecified representation isneeded for other reasons, e.g., to represent scope ambiguities.
All I claim is that such specialrepresentations are not necessitated by the need to represent anaphora.
(3)x y z u vJohn(x)Bill(y)Mary(z)go-to-see(I,x)visit(I,y)visit(I,z)male(u)female(v)?want-to-speak(u,v)u=xv=zThe problem of anaphora resolution now becomes the problem of inferringthe necessary equalities from the representation.
Of course, DRT places someconstraints on acceptable antecedents?they have to be accessible.
Accessibil-ity constraints can be modeled simply as inequalities between all inaccessiblepairs of discourse referents.
Additional constraints come from our world knowl-edge.
For example, if we know that her must refer to a female individual, andthat John is not female, we know that John cannot be a suitable antecedent.3 Default LogicInferring the equalities identifying pronoun with antecedent must be nonmono-tonic: we may later find that our anaphora resolution was wrong, and revise it.Some form of nonmonotonic reasoning, attempting to derive consistent conclu-sions from an incomplete description of the world, is independently necessaryfor any kind of system that attempts to draw inferences from natural lan-guage texts.
Thus, instead of devising a special form of inference mechanismfor our underspecified representation, I will use well studied and independentlymotivated mechanisms for nonmonotonic reasoning (cf.
[12,15]).Specifically, I choose Default Logic ([17]).
Default Logic is one of the mostwidely used nonmonotonic formalisms and may be the only one that has aclearly useful contribution to the wider field of computer science through logicprogramming and database theory.A default theory is a pair (D,A), where D is a set of defaults and A is a setof first-order sentences (axioms).
Defaults are expressions of the form(4)?
(x) : ?1(x), .
.
.
, ?m(x)?
(x),where ?
(x), ?1(x), .
.
.
, ?m(x), m ?
1, and ?
(x) are formulas of first-order logicwhose free variables are among x = x1, .
.
.
, xn.
A default is closed if none of?, ?1, .
.
.
, ?m, and ?
contains a free variable.
Otherwise it is open.Roughly speaking, the intuitive meaning of a default is as follows.
Forevery n-tuple of objects t = t1, .
.
.
, tn, if ?
(t) is believed, and the ?i(t)s areconsistent with one?s beliefs, then one is permitted to deduce ?
(t).Crucial to the interpretation of Default Logic is the notion of an extension.Roughly speaking, an extension of a default theory is a set of statementscontaining all the logical entailments of the theory, plus as many of the defaultinferences as can be consistently believed.
Sometimes a default theory hasmore than one extension, as in the well known Nixon diamond.
Suppose wehave the following set of defaults:(5){Quaker(x) : pacifist(x)pacifist(x) ,Republican(x) : ?pacifist(x)?pacifist(x)}.If Nixon is both a Quaker and a Republican, in one extension he will bepacifist, and in another he won?t be.
So, is Nixon a pacifist or isn?t he?When faced with multiple extensions, there are two general strategies wecan use to decide which conclusions to accept: skeptical or credulous reason-ing.
Skeptical reasoning means taking only what is true in all extensions.
Inthe case of the Nixon diamond, we will believe neither that Nixon is a pacifist,nor that he is not a pacifist.
Credulous reasoning means picking one exten-sion, based on whatever principles one deems appropriate, and accepting itsconclusions.
This means we will pick one extension, perhaps using our knowl-edge of Nixon?s statements and actions, and based on this extension, concludewhether he is a pacifist or not.4 Equality by Default4.1 A default rule for equalityResolving anaphora means generating an equality between two discourse ref-erents.
I suggest that we will generate such an equality by default: we assumethat two elements are equal if they cannot be proved to be different.
The ideaunderlying this notion has been proposed, though not formalized, in [2].
Char-niak?s approach is further explored in [5], and formalized more fully in [3,4].The idea of equality by default can be implemented in Default Logic verysimply, by adding the following default:(6): x = yx = yThis default rule means that whenever it is consistent to assume that twoelements are the same, conclude that they are.
4 What does it mean to saythat it is consistent to assume x = y?
It means that it not known that x 6= y.From the axioms of equality it follows that this is equivalent to saying thatthere is no property ?
s.t.
we know ?
(x) but we also know ??
(y).4.2 Minimality of modelsIn order to explain what it means for the models of our theory to be mini-mal, we will need some definitions.
In particular, since (6) is an open default,we need to provide a semantic definition of extensions of open default theo-ries.
Since model builders generate what are, in essence, Herbrand models,it seems natural to assume that the theory domain is a Herbrand universe(cf.
[14, Chapter 1, ?3]).
Fortunately, such a definition has already been pro-posed ([13,8]), and I will follow it here.Suppose we have a first order language L, and we augment it with a set ofnew constants, b, calling the resulting language Lb.
The set of all closed termsof the language Lb is called the Herbrand universe of Lb and is denoted T Lb .A Herbrand b-interpretation is a set of closed atomic formulas of Lb.Let w be a Herbrand b-interpretation and let ?
be a closed formula overLb.
We say that w satisfies ?, denoted w |= ?, if the following holds:(i) If ?
is an atomic formula, then w |= ?
if and only if ?
?
w;(ii) w |= ?
?
?
if and only if w 6|= ?
or w |= ?
;(iii) w |= ??
if and only if w 6|= ?
; and(iv) w |= ?x?
(x) if and only if for each t ?
T Lb , w |= ?
(t).For a Herbrand b-interpretation w, the Lb-theory of w, denoted ThLb(w),is the set of all closed formulas of Lb satisfied by w. For a set of Herbrandb-interpretations W , the Lb-theory of W , denoted ThLb(W ), is the set of allclosed formulas of Lb satisfied by all elements of W .Let E be a set of closed formulas over Lb.
We say that w is a Herbrandb-model of E, denoted by w |= E, if E ?
ThLb(w).Extensions of open default theories are then defined as follows:Definition 1 (cf.
[8, Definition 27]) Let b be a set of new constant symbolsand let (D,A) be a default theory.
For any set of Herbrand b-interpretationsW let ?b(D,A)(W ) be the largest set V of Herbrand b-models of A that satisfiesthe following condition.For any default?
(x) : ?1(x), ?2(x), .
.
.
, ?m(x)?(x)?
D and any tuple t of ele-ments of T Lb if V |= ?
(t) and W 6|= ?
?i(t), i = 1, 2, .
.
.
,m, then V |= ?
(t).A set of sentences E is called a b-extension for (D,A) if E = ThLb(W )4 Note that this is, in a sense, the opposite of the Unique Name Assumption ([16]).
Theuniqueness of names can still be ensured, by following standard DRT practice and definingappropriate external anchors.for some fixpoint W of ?b(D,A).It has been shown ([4]) that if E is a b-extension for the default theory({:x=yx=y}, A), and w is a Herbrand b-model of E, then w is minimal.
That isto say, there is no Herbrand b-model w?
of E such that(7) {?t1, t2?
: w |= t1 = t2} ?
{?t1, t2?
: w?
|= t1 = t2}.In other words, the proposed default theory minimizes the number of differentelements in the models, as desired.4.3 Deictic interpretationsIt turns out that using Herbrand models has a consequence that is particularlyimportant for our purposes.
Note that the new elements introduced in b, bybeing new, are equal by default to any term.
In particular, they are are equalby default to any pronoun; this is the reason why deictic interpretations ofpronouns are always possible.
Hence, we have a logical explanation for alinguistic phenomenon?the universal availability of deictic readings.Note that this theory allows deictic readings, but only as a last resort,when no other readings are possible.
Given the discourse in (1), we have agood reason to believe that her refers to Mary, i.e.
v = z.
It is true that wehave in the Herbrand model additional new terms, but this does not negatethe minimality of the model.
Since these terms are new, nothing is knownabout them and consequently it is consistent to assume that, for any suchnew term ni, v = ni.
It is also consistent to hold the conjunction of allthese beliefs, namely the belief that n1 = n2 = n3 = ?
?
?
= v. So, the model is,indeed, minimal; the addition of new constants does not mean that they denoteadditional entities.
Thus, we capture the intuition that deictic readings aredispreferred, and are only available when no suitable antecedent is available.Note that if we didn?t have this requirement of minimality, deictic readingswould be on an equal footing with anaphoric readings.If necessary, however, we can get a deictic interpretation, i.e.
equate thepronoun with an element that is different from all other discourse referents.This happens when no possible antecedent is available, i.e.
for every discoursereferent t other than v, we know, or can deduce v 6= t. Then, we will have anextension where for some new term ni, v = ni.
By the axioms of equality, niwill not be equal to any of the other discourse referents, hence the domain willnot be minimal.
Of course, we may have an extension where the new termsare be equal to other terms, but none will be equal to v; but this extensionwill not constitute resolution of the anaphora, and will therefore be ruled out.5 InferenceLet us see the kinds of inferences that this theory gives rise to.
First, note that,although we are quite liberal in our assumption of equality, we can still ruleout inappropriate antecedents.
Recall that antecedents that are not accessible,in the DRT sense, will be explicitly stated to be different from the pronoun.Hence, obviously, it will not be consistent to assume that they are, so suchequalities will arise in any extension.We can also rule out antecedents that are semantically incompatible.
Forexample, if we know that male(u) but ?male(z), we cannot assume u = z;this is because if u is male and z is female, they have to be different, by theaxioms of equality.But suppose we have two acceptable antecedents for a pronoun u: in ourexample, it is possible that u = x (John), but it is also possible that u = y(Bill).
If we know that they are different people, we know x 6= y, so it isimpossible to believe both u = x and u = y.
We will therefore have twoextensions: in one of them, the pronoun is equated with John, and in theother, with Bill.How do we deal with these extensions?
If we prefer one antecedent overthe other, for reasons of pragmatic plausibility or salience, we apply credulousreasoning and pick the appropriate extension.
In this extension, the pronounwill be equated with the chosen antecedent; hence, by the nature of equality,all properties of the antecedent will also hold of the pronoun.At other times, however, the anaphora may be genuinely ambiguous, andwe may have no reason to prefer one reading over the other.
In this case, itmakes sense to apply skeptical reasoning, and accept only what is true in allcandidate extensions.Consider, for example, the following discourse:(8) John met Bill at the ice cream parlor.
He was upset.In this case, the pronoun may be equated with either John or Bill, and thereare no good grounds, without further context, to decide between them.
Yet,we do know something about the antecedent of the pronoun: he was at theice cream parlor.
We know this because we know that both John and Billwere there, and the pronoun refers to one of them.
Skeptical reasoning will,indeed, give us precisely this result, since in both extensions, the pronoun hasthe properties that its antecedent has.But now suppose that one possible antecedent has a property than theother one lacks:(9) John walked along the sidewalk and saw Bill inside the ice creamparlor.
He was upset.In this case, Bill has the property of being inside the ice cream parlor, butJohn does not.
Thus, in one extension, the pronoun will have this property,and in another?its negation.
If we have no reason to prefer one extensionover the other, we will apply skeptical reasoning, and will not conclude of thereferent either that he is or that he is not inside the ice cream parlor.
Thisappears intuitively correct.Now suppose we know that some property holds of one potential an-tecedent, but we don?t know whether it holds of another:(10) While eating ice cream, John saw Bill at the ice cream parlor.
He wasupset.We know that John was eating ice cream, but we do not know whether Billwas eating ice cream too or not.
In this case, intuitively, we cannot concludeabout the antecedent of the pronoun that he was eating ice cream, althoughthis is consistent with him being either John or Bill.
Indeed ,the proposedsystem conforms with this judgment.
This is because in one extension, theone where the pronoun is associated with John, the property of eating icecream is predicated of the discourse referent corresponding to the pronoun.But in the other extension, neither this property nor its negation will be sopredicated.
So, in this extension it will not be true that ?he?
is eating icecream, hence skeptical reasoning will not license this inference.Note that I have ignored here the addition of the new terms.
The reasonis simple: since they are new, they do not make a difference to the inferencepatterns discussed above.
Consider, for example, the inference associatedwith (8) again.
Suppose we have a new term ni.
So long as it is possible tofind at least one antecedent to the pronoun, a model for the deictic reading,i.e.
where the pronoun is equated with ni but with no other element, willnot be minimal, hence it will not be the model of any extension.
In everyextension, then, the pronoun u will be equated with some discourse referentx.
Now, suppose ni = x.
In this case, by the axioms of equality, ni will alsohave the property of being at the ice cream parlor, hence skeptical reasoningwill still conclude that the pronoun has this property.
Alternatively, supposeni 6= x (perhaps because it is associated deictically with another pronoun).Now, it follows that ni 6= u, so whether or not ni was at the ice cream parlorshould have no effect on whether ?he?
was.6 ConclusionI have proposed a theory of the representation of anaphora, based on the as-sumption that if two elements cannot be proved to be different, then theycan be assumed to be equal.
This assumption is implemented using a stan-dard linguistic representation (DRT) and a standard default reasoning system(Default Logic), and this requires no special mechanisms for representation orinference.
Yet this conceptually simple theory appears to produce exactly thesort of inferences regarding anaphora that are intuitively desirable.References[1] Baumgartner, P. and M. Ku?hn, Abducing coreference by model construction,Journal of Language and Computation 1 (2000), pp.
175?190.
[2] Charniak, E., Motivation analysis, abductive unification and nonmonotonicequality, Artificial Intelligence 34 (1988), pp.
275?295.
[3] Cohen, A., M. Kaminski and J.
A. Makowsky, Indistinguishability by default,in: S. Artemov, H. Barringer, A. S. d?Avila Garcez, L. C. Lamb and J. Woods,editors, We Will Show Them: Essays in Honour of Dov Gabbay, CollegePublications, 2005 pp.
415?428.
[4] Cohen, A., M. Kaminski and J.
A. Makowsky, Applying default logic toanaphora, vagueness, and uncertain reasoning (in preparation).
[5] Cohen, A. and J.
A. Makowsky, Two approaches to nonmonotonic equality,Technical Report CIS-9317, Technion?Israel Institute of Technology (1993).
[6] Gardent, C. and K. Konrad, Definites and the proper treatment of rabbits, in:C. Monz and M. de Rijke, editors, Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Inferencein Computational Semantics, ICOS-1, 1999, pp.
53?69.
[7] Gardent, C. and K. Konrad, Interpreting definites using model generation,Journal of Logic, Language and Information 1 (2000), pp.
193?209.
[8] Kaminski, M., A comparative study of open default theories, ArtificialIntelligence 77 (1995), pp.
285?319.
[9] Kamp, H. and U. Reyle, ?From Discourse to Logic,?
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht, 1993.
[10] Kohlhase, M., Model generation for discourse representation theory, in:W. Horn, editor, Proceedings of the 14th European Conference on ArtificalIntelligence, 2000, pp.
441?445.
[11] Konrad, K., ?Model Generation for Natural Language Interpretation andAnalysis,?
Ph.D. thesis, University of Saarlandes, Saarbru?cken (2000).
[12] Lascarides, A. and N. Asher, Temporal interpretation, discourse relations andcommon sense entailments, Linguistics and Philosophy 16 (1993), pp.
437?493.
[13] Lifschitz, V., On open defaults, in: J. Lloyd, editor, Computational Logic:Symposium Proceedings (1990), pp.
80?95.
[14] Lloyd, J., ?Foundation of logic programming, second extended edition,?Springer?Verlag, Berlin, 1993.
[15] Poesio, M., Semantic ambiguity and perceived ambiguity, in: K. van Deemter andS.
Peters, editors, Semantic Ambiguity and Underspecification, CSLI, Stanford,1996 pp.
159?201.
[16] Reiter, R., Equality and domain closure in first order databases, Journal of theACM 27 (1980), pp.
235?249.
[17] Reiter, R., A logic for default reasoning, Artificial Intelligence 13 (1980), pp.
81?132.
