Towards a Logical Foundation of SemanticNetworks ?
A Typology of Descriptive Means forSemantic InferenceHermann Helbig, Ingo Gl?cknerIntelligent Information and Communication SystemsFernUniversit?t in Hagen, GermanyAbstractSemantic Networks (SN) are a knowledge representation paradigm especiallysuited for the meaning representation of natural language expressions.
In orderto clearly define their basic constructs, the relations and functions used in a se-mantic network must be given a logical characterization.
The paper exemplifiesthis strategy for Multilayered Extended Semantic Networks (the so-called Multi-Net paradigm).
In particular, it is shown that the axioms characterizing the logicalproperties of the expressional means of an SN have to be classified according todifferent criteria which are connected with specific types of inference.1 IntroductionSemantic Networks have a long tradition as a paradigm for representing cognitive struc-tures, starting with Quillian [9].
As to the logical underpinning of relations and func-tions used in such networks, we find a logically oriented and a more linguistically ori-ented approach.
The works in the first line, like Shapiro?s SNePS [10], and Brachmann?sKL-ONE [1], have a clear logical foundation, but none of them give a systematic andcomplete description of the relations and functions constituting an SN.
By contrast, lin-guistically oriented work normally discusses selected semantic relations (so-called cog-nitive roles or theta-roles) in greater detail [5], however not on a formal logical level.Moreover the proposed relations and roles are not contrasted with each other to form abalanced system of expressional means.
In SNePS [10], for example, the guideline forchoosing the appropriate relations is deliberately given the status of a recommendationonly.
To meet the requirements on a knowledge representation formalism useful for NLP(especially the universality, homogeneity, and interoperability criteria [4, Chap.
1]), oneneeds a commitment on a clearly defined repertory of expressional means.
Multilay-ered Extended Semantic Networks (the MultiNet paradigm [4]) were designed to fulfillthese requirements, by fixing a set of expressional means and formalizing axioms whichdescribe these functions and relations.
The formalism is comprehensively documentedand successfully used in NLP applications, e.g.
for describing large semantically basedcomputational lexica [3], and as the backbone of NL interfaces [7].
Its application in theFigure 1: ?It is not true that Peter didn?t drive to Boston with his car?peter.0fec3naSUB forename????????
?FACT realGENER spQUANT ?one?REFER detCARD 1ETYPE 0VARIA con????????
?VAL csooc4dSUB car????????
?FACT realGENER spQUANT ?one?REFER detCARD 1ETYPE 0VARIA con????????
?c6d?ioSUB city????????
?FACT realGENER spQUANT ?one?REFER detCARD 1ETYPE 0VARIA con????????
?ATTRc c//c7naSUBname????????
?FACT realGENER spQUANT ?one?REFER detCARD 1ETYPE 0VARIA con?????????VALcsc2dSUBperson????????
?FACT realGENER spQUANT ?one?REFER detCARD 1ETYPE 0VARIA con????????
?POSSsc ?
?ATTRcc OOc1daSUBSdriveTEMPpast.0[FACT nonrealGENER sp]MODLrsDIRCLc s//INSTRcs OOAGT csooc5l????????
?FACT realGENER spQUANT ?one?REFER detCARD 1ETYPE 0VARIA con?????????
*FLPcs OOboston.0fe*NONmdInSicht question-answering system [2] has been successfully evaluated in CLEF 2004,with a MultiNet knowledge base generated from 4,9 Mio sentences.MultiNet extends simple semantic networks by the following features: (1) Every node islabeled by a sort from a predefined ontology of sorts and by bundles of layer attributes.
(2) MultiNet admits functions and relations of arbitrary arity.
(3) The arcs (relations)are formally characterized by associated axioms.
(4) Subnetworks can be encapsulatedto form concepts of higher order which can be connected to other concepts by relationsand functions.
(5) The relationships in the network are assigned a knowledge type andthus marked as categorically valid (c), prototypically valid (p), modally restricted (r), orsituationally bounded (s) with regard to each argument, as shown in Fig.
1.2 The Expressional Means of MultiNetTo characterize an SN, we need a precise specification of the relations corresponding tothe arcs (links).
Our formalism provides about 140 relations and functions characterizedon the basis of a uniform schema and by logical axioms.
Table 1 sketches the relationsand functions needed in this paper.
MultiNet distinguishes 45 sorts of conceptual enti-ties used to define the signatures of relations and functions [4, Sect.
17.1].
Some of thesesorts are explained in Table 1.
The sorts are also needed to constrain the applicabilityof logical rules.
For example, the law of double negation holds for semantically totalproperties (sort [tq]) like dead and its negation alive, where not alive means the same asdead.
Another sort [gq] is used for gradable properties like friendly and unfriendly.
Al-though unfriendly means not friendly, the law of double negation does not hold in thiscase, i.e.
if someone is not unfriendly this does not mean that the person is friendly.MultiNet not only classifies conceptual entities by their sorts but also by the values of2Relation Signature Short CharacteristicsAFF si?
[o?
si] C-Role ?
Affected objectAGT si?o C-Role ?
AgentANTE [t ?
si]?
[t ?
si] Temporal successorshipATTR o?at Specification of an attributeAVRT si?o C-Role ?
Averting/Turning away from an objectCAUS si??
si?Relation between cause and effect (Causality)CIRC si?
si Relation between situation and circumstanceCOMPL p?
p Complementarity relationDIRCL [si?o]?
l Relation specifying a directionFIN si?
[t ?
si] Relation between a situation and its temporal endLOC [o?
si]?
l Relation specifying the locationMIN qn?qn Smaller-than relationMODL si?md Relation specifying a restricting modalityOBJ si?
[o?
si] C-Role ?
Neutral object of a situationORNT si?o C-Role ?
Orientation of a situation toward somethingPARS co?
co Part-whole relationshipPROP o?
p Relation between object and propertySUB o?o Relation of conceptual subordination (for objects)SUBS si?
si Relation of conceptual subordination (for situations)TEMP si?
[t ?
si] Relation specifying the temporal embedding of a situationVAL at?
[o?qn?
p?
f e] Relation between an attribute and its valueTable 1: Strongly abbreviated description of relations used in this paper.
Explanationof sorts: objects o include concrete objects co (house) and attributes at (height); situationssi (write); locations l (here), times t (now), modal descriptors md (impossible); properties p(dead ), quantificators and measurements qn (many, two litres), formal entities f e (figures ornames).
The notation si?demands [FACT = real], and the notation si demands [GENER = ge].six so-called ?layer attributes?.
Here we are concerned only with two of these attributes:Facticity.
We discern three kinds of facticity: [FACT=real ] for existing entities (Eiffeltower), [FACT=non] for non-existing entities (the light ether), and [FACT=hypo] forhypothetical entities (quarks).
Apart from the extensional negation expressed by a non-existing situation with [FACT=non], MultiNet supports the intensional negation of asituation s, expressed by the relation (sMODL*NON).
Both types occur in the exampleshown in Fig.
1.
Facticity must be anchored in the logical language since special infer-ence rules apply to hypothetical and non-existing objects.Genericity.
The GENER attribute (degree of generality) divides the world of conceptsinto generic objects with [GENER=ge] (house) and specific objects with [GENER=sp](?my house?).
In this way, assertions about the generic concept can be clearly separatedfrom assertions about instances of that concept.
Generic concepts are also needed tomodel prototypical knowledge.
Consider ?Lions feed on antelopes?.
A modeling bya universal quantifier ranging over all lions would be inadequate because the sentenceexpresses only default knowledge.33 A Typology of Axioms for Inferences over an SNWhile a logical expression is either true or false in first-order logic (FOL), a semanticformalism dealing with NL must support different degrees of reliability.
Moreover, log-ical calculi normally do not give a clue how to use the axioms in an effective inferencestrategy.
These considerations suggest the following cross-classification of axioms.3.1 Conceptually Bound vs.
Conceptually Non-bound AxiomsR-axioms.
From a syntactical point of view, there are two types of expressions describ-ing axiomatic knowledge.
The first type contains no lexical constants but only relationand function symbols (apart from logical signs).
These expressions are called concep-tually non-bound or R-Axioms.
The following R-Axiom connects causality and time,saying that effects never take place before the cause: (xCAUS y) ??
(yANTE x) (1)Other examples are given by axioms (4), (5), (7) below.
Axioms which are conceptuallynot bound have to be treated with care by the reasoner, since an R-axiom for a relationR can be applied in inferences over the SN wherever R is involved (global effect).
Interalia, R-axioms serve to express the symmetry or transitivity of relations, i.e.
propertieswhich are difficult to handle efficiently.B-axioms.
Axioms containing the representative of at least one concept are called con-ceptually bound or B-axioms.
Thus, with every selling act s there is a buying act bentailed by s. The corresponding relationship is given by the following axiom:(sSUBS sell)?
(sAGTa)?
(sOBJo)?
(sORNTd) ??b(bSUBSbuy)?
(bOBJo)?
(bAVRTa)?
(bAGT d) (2)Another example of a B-axiom is (6) which contains only one concept.
Such B-axiomshave only a local effect, i.e.
they are applied only in those cases where one concepthas to be connected to another during the inference process.
Here, we meet the FrameProblem in Artificial Intelligence: In a B-axiom like (2), only the change of participantroles (like AGT, AFF, AVRT, and OBJ) is specified, but nothing is said about the local,temporal and circumstantial embedding of the main situation (mainly represented byLOC, TEMP, and CIRC, resp.)
The transfer of these specifications must be handled byaxiom schemata for classes of concepts: While the temporal specification of a sellingact like s in (2) transfers unchanged to b, there is no such transfer of the specification(s1 TEMP t1) of a sending act s1 to the corresponding receiving act s2 = sk(s1).
For thelatter class we have:(s1 SUBS ?send-act?)?
(s1 TEMP t1)?
(sk(s1)SUBS ?receive-act?)?
(sk(s1)TEMP t2) ?
(t1 ANTE t2) (3)3.2 Categorically vs. Prototypically Valid AxiomsCategorically Valid Axioms.
It seems to be a contradiction to speak of axioms whichare restricted in their validity.
But, if we want to formalize natural language semantics,we must also account for prototypical regularities.4The following axiom expresses knowledge which is categorically valid:(p1 COMPL p2) ?
(oPROP p1)?
(oPROP p2) (4)Axiom (4) states that one from two complementary properties (if applicable at all) musthold.
It is obvious that there is no exception from this rule.Prototypically Valid Axioms.
By contrast, rule (5), governing the inheritance of thepart-whole relationship within the SUB hierarchy, has only the status of default (or pro-totypically valid) knowledge:(d1 SUBd2)?
(d3 PARSd2) ?
?d4[(d4 SUBd3)?
(d4 PARSd1)] (5)It is a good assumption that a conceptual object subordinated to a generic object inheritknown parts from the latter.
However, there are exceptions.
While ships normally havea keel, there are also ships which have not.Categorically valid axioms lead to monotonic reasoning, while prototypically validaxioms call for nonmonotonic reasoning.
The standard approach to default reasoningbased on a truth-maintenance system does not scale up, though.
In MultiNet, we warrantthat every deduction step involving a default again produces only default knowledge.The newly generated default knowledge has to be checked for local contradictions ina neighborhood of the concepts involved.
Semantic networks can help defining suchneighborhoods as their link structure gives a natural notion of vicinity for concepts.3.3 Deductive Axioms vs.
Destructive AxiomsDeductive Axioms.
Many axioms, like (1) through (5), can be used in a deductiveprocess to derive new knowledge, given by the conclusion, provided that the premise befulfilled.
The important feature of monotonic deduction is that no piece of knowledgein the knowledge base must ever be retracted.Destructive Axioms.
There are also axiomatic regularities which not only generate newknowledge but also cancel earlier knowledge.
Into this class of ?destructive?
axioms wenumber the derivation of the temporal end of a situation s:(eSUBS end)?
(eAFF s)?
(eTEMP t) ?
(sFIN t)|DEL (sTEMP_) (6)Thus if an activity e ends a situation s at time t, then a new relation FIN for s mustbe established and the earlier specification of s by the relation TEMP must be deleted.While the first type of axioms can be treated by symbolic derivations, the latter typerequires actions on the knowledge base like deleting arcs.3.4 Epistemically Restricted vs. Non-restricted AxiomsEpistemically Restricted Axioms.
There are axioms which are epistemically restrictedin the sense that their validity is only warranted within a certain epistemic or cognitivecontext.
A typical example is the restricted transitivity of CAUS:(k1 CAUS k2)?
(k2 CAUS k3) ?
(k1 CAUS k3) (7)This axiom is connected with a fading effect preventing infinite prolongation of causal-ity chains by a presumed (but not strongly valid) transitivity of CAUS.
This effect is dueto the so-called INUS-conditions [8], i.e.
humans asserting a causal relation emphasize5a certain cause and neglect other necessary conditions for this relationship.Epistemically Non-restricted Axioms.
For most axioms no epistemically motivatedrestriction can be observed.
In particular, the transitivity of conceptual subordination(8) and of spatial inclusion (9) hold unconditionally:(o1 SUBo2)?
(o2 SUBo3) ?
(o1 SUBo3) (8)(oLOC (*INm))?
(mLOC (*INn)) ?
(oLOC (*INn)) (9)For epistemically restricted axioms, we propose the use of built-in procedures whichtreat borderlines of epistemic or functional levels by special parameters for controllingthe inference process.4 ConclusionThe MultiNet formalism is intended for the semantic representation of unrestricted lan-guage and thus supposed to represent the facticity status, degree of generality, modalembedding, and other characteristics of NL concepts.
The meaning of the relationsand functions on which the formalism is based, can be made precise by axioms whichcapture their expected behaviour.
These axioms differ with respect to the classificatorydimensions of categoricity, conceptual boundedness, and epistemic restriction.
We haveshown that these dimensions also affect the validity and efficiency of inference.References[1] R. J. Brachman and J. G. Schmolze.
An overview of the KL-ONE knowledge representa-tion system.
Cognitive Science, 9(2):171?216, 1985.
[2] S. Hartrumpf.
Question answering using sentence parsing and semantic network matching.In Proc.
of CLEF 2004, pages 385?392, Bath, England, Sept.
2004.
[3] S. Hartrumpf, H. Helbig, and R. Osswald.
The semantically based computer lexicon Ha-GenLex.
Traitement automatique des langues, 44(2):81?105, 2003.
[4] H. Helbig.
Knowledge Representation and the Semantics of Natural Language.
Springer,Berlin, 2006.
[5] R. Jackendoff.
Semantic Structures.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1990.
[6] F. Lehmann, editor.
Semantic Networks in Artificial Intelligence.
Pergamon Press, 1992.
[7] J.
Leveling and H. Helbig.
A robust natural language interface for access to bibliographicdatabases.
In Proceedings of SCI 2002, pages 133?138, Orlando, Florida, July 2002.
[8] J. L. Mackie.
The Cement of Universe.
Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1974.
[9] M. R. Quillian.
Semantic memory.
In M.Minsky, editor, Semantic Information Processing,pages 227?270.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1968.
[10] S. C. Shapiro and W. J. Rapaport.
The SNePS family.
In Lehmann [6], pages 243?275.6
