Proceedings of the Interactive Question Answering Workshop at HLT-NAACL 2006, pages 1?8,New York City, NY, USA.
June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsContextual phenomena and thematic relations in database QA dialogues:results from a Wizard-of-Oz ExperimentNu?ria Bertomeu, Hans UszkoreitSaarland UniversitySaarbru?cken, Germanyuszkoreit|bertomeu@coli.uni-sb.deAnette Frank, Hans-Ulrich Krieger and Brigitte Jo?rgGerman Research Center of Artificial IntelligenceSaarbru?cken, Germanyfrank|krieger|joerg@dfki.deAbstractConsidering data obtained from a corpusof database QA dialogues, we address thenature of the discourse structure neededto resolve the several kinds of contextualphenomena found in our corpus.
We lookat the thematic relations holding betweenquestions and the preceding context anddiscuss to which extent thematic related-ness plays a role in discourse structure.1 IntroductionAs pointed out by several authors (Kato et al, 2004),(Chai and Ron, 2004), the information needs ofusers interacting with QA systems often go beyonda single stand-alone question.
Often users want toresearch about a particular topic or event or solvea specific task.
In such interactions we can expectthat the individual user questions will be themati-cally connected, giving the users the possibility ofreusing part of the context when formulating newquestions.That users implicitly refer to and even omit ma-terial which can be recovered from the contexthas already been replicated in several Wizard-of-Oz experiments simulating natural language inter-faces to databases, (Carbonell, 1983), (Dahlba?ckand Jo?nsson, 1989), the most frequent contextualphenomena being ellipsis, anaphora and definite de-scriptions.A big challenge for interactive QA systems is,thus, the resolution of contextual phenomena.
In or-der to be able to do so a system has to keep track ofthe user?s focus of attention as the interaction pro-ceeds.
The attentional state at a given point in theinteraction is given by the discourse structure.
Anopen issue, however, is the nature of the discoursestructure model needed in a QA system.
Ahrenberget al (1990) argue that the discourse structure in NLinterfaces is, given the limited set of actions to beperformed by the system and the user, simpler thanthe one underlying human-human dialogue.
UponAhrenberg et al (1990) this is given by the discoursegoals, rather than the overall goals of the user, as isthe case in task-oriented dialogues, (Grosz and Sid-ner, 1986).
Following Ahrenberg et al (1990), theQA discourse is structured in segments composedby a pair of initiative-response units, like question-answer, or question-assertion, in the absence of ananswer.
A segment can be embedded in another seg-ment if it is composed by a clarification request andits corresponding answer.
The local context of asegment is given by the immediately preceding seg-ment.
Upon Ahrenberg et al (1990), the latter re-liably limits up the search space for antecedents ofanaphoric devices and ellipsis.
However, as we willsee, there are few cases where the antecedents ofcontextual phenomena are to be found beyond theimmediately preceding segments.
This suggests thata more complex approach to discourse structure forQA systems is needed.In more recent studies of interactive QA specialattention has been paid to the thematic relatedness ofquestions, (Chai and Ron, 2004), (Kato et al, 2004).Chai and Ron (2004) propose a discourse model-ing for QA interactions in which they keep trackof thematic transitions between questions.
Although1the applications of tracking thematic transitions be-tween questions have not been investigated in depth,Sun and Chai (2006) report on an experiment whichshows that the use of a model of topic transitionsbased on Centering Theory improves query expan-sion for context questions.
However, these previousstudies on the thematic relations between questionsare not based on collections of interactive data, buton questions centered around a topic that were col-lected in non-interactive environments.
This meansthat they do not consider the answers to the ques-tions, to which following questions can be related.This paper presents data on different kinds of con-textual phenomena found in a corpus of written nat-ural language QA exchanges between human usersand a human agent representing an interactive infor-mation service.
We address two issues: the kindsand frequencies of thematic relations holding be-tween the user questions and the preceding context,on the one hand, and the location of antecedents forthe different contextual phenomena, on the other.We also discuss the question whether thematic rela-tions can contribute to determine discourse structureand, thus, to the resolution of the contextual phe-nomena.In the next section we present our data collectionand the aspects of the annotation scheme which arerelevant to the current work.
In section 3 we presentdata regarding the overall thematic cohesion of theQA sessions.
In section 4 we report on data regard-ing the co-occurrence of discourse phenomena andthematic relations and the distance between the phe-nomena and their antecedents.
Finally, we discussour findings with regard to their relevance with re-spect to the nature of discourse structure.2 Corpus and methodology2.1 Experimental set-upIn order to obtain a corpus of natural QA inter-actions, we designed a Wizard-of-Oz experiment.The experiment was set up in such a way that theexchanges between users and information systemwould be as representative as possible for the inter-action between users and QA systems.
We chose anontology database instead of a text based closed do-main QA system, however, because in order to simu-late a real system short time responses were needed.30 subjects took part in the experiment, whichconsisted in solving a task by querying LT-WORLD,an ontology containing information about languagetechnology1, in English.
The modality of interactionwas typing through a chat-like interface.Three different tasks were designed: two of themconcentrated on information browsing, the other oneon information gathering.
In the first task sub-jects had to find three traineeships at three differentprojects in three different institutions each on a dif-ferent topic, and obtain some information about thechosen projects, like a contact address, a descrip-tion, etc.
In the second task, subjects had to findthree conferences in the winter term and three con-ferences in the summer term, each one on a differ-ent topic and they had to obtain some information onthe chosen conferences such as deadline, place, date.etc.
Finally, the third task consisted of finding infor-mation for writing a report on European languagetechnology in the last ten years.
To this end, subjectshad to obtain quantitative information on patents, or-ganizations, conferences, etc.The Wizard was limited to very few types of re-sponses.
The main response was answering a ques-tion.
In addition, she would provide intermediateinformation about the state of processing if the re-trieval took too long.
She could also make state-ments about the contents of the database when it didnot contain the information asked for or when theuser appeared confused about the structure of thedomain.
Finally, she could ask for clarification ormore specificity when the question could not be un-derstood.
Yet the Wizard was not allowed to takethe initiative by offering information that was notexplicitely asked for.
Thus all actions of the Wiz-ard were directly dependent on those of the user.As a result we obtained a corpus of 33 logs (30plus 3 pilot experiments) containing 125.534 wordsin 2.534 turns, 1.174 of which are user turns.2.2 Annotation schemeThe corpus received a multi-layer annotaton2 con-sisting of five levels.
The levels of turns and part-of-speech were automatically annotated.
The level ofturns records information about the speaker and time1See http://www.lt-world.org.2We employed the annotation tool MMAX2 developed atEML Research, Heidelberg.2stamp.
For the other levels - the questions level, theutterances level, and the entities level - a specific an-notation scheme was developed.
For these, we onlyexplain the aspects relevant for the present study.2.2.1 QuestionsThis level was conceived to keep track of thequestions asked by the user which correspond toqueries to the database.
With the aim of annotatingthematic relatedness between questions we distin-guished two main kinds of thematic relations: thoseholding between a question and a previous ques-tion, quest(ion)-to-quest(ion)-rel(ation), and thoseholding between a question and a previous answer,quest(ion)-to-answ(er)-rel(ation).Quest-to-quest-rels can be of the following types:?
refinement if the current question asks for thesame type of entity as some previous question,but the restricting conditions are different, ask-ing, thus, for a subset, superset or disjoint setof the same class.
(1) US: How many projects on language tech-nologies are there right now?US: How many have been done in thepast??
theme-entity if the current question is about thesame entity as some previous question.
(2) US: Where will the conference take place?US: What is the dead-line for applicants??
theme-property if the current question asks forthe same property as the immediately preced-ing question but for another entity.
(3) US: Dates of TALK project?US: Dates of DEREKO??
paraphrase if the question is the rephrasing ofsome previous question.?
overlap if the content of a question is subsumedby the content of some previous question.We distinguish the following quest-to-answ-rels:?
refinement if the current question asks for asubset of the entities given in the previous an-swer.
(4) LT: 3810.US: How many of them do research onlanguage technology??
theme if the current question asks about an en-tity first introduced in some previous answer.
(5) LT: Semaduct, ...US: What language technology topicsdoes the Semaduct project investigate?Although Chai and Jin (2004) only consider tran-sitions among questions in dialogues about events,most of our relations have a correspondence withtheirs.
Refinement corresponds to their constraintrefinement, theme-property to their participant-shift,and theme-entity to their topic exploration.2.2.2 UtterancesUtterances are classified according to theirspeech-act: question, answer, assertion, or request.Our annotation of discourse structure is identical inspirit to the one proposed by Ahrenberg et al (1990).A segment is opened with a user question to thedatabase and is closed with its corresponding an-swer or an assertion by the system.
Clarificationrequests and their corresponding answers form seg-ments which are embedded in other segments.
Re-quests to wait and assertions about the processing ofa question are also embedded in the segment openedby the question.Fragmentary utterances are annotated at this level.We distinguish between fragments with a full lin-guistic source, fragments with a partial source,and fragments showing a certain analogy with thesource.
The first group corresponds to fragmentswhich are structurally identical to the source andcan, thus, be resolved by substitution or extension.
(6) US: Are there any projects on spell checking inEurope in the year 2006?US: And in the year 2005?Fragments with a partial source implicitly refer tosome entity previously introduced, but some infer-ence must be done in order to resolve them.
(7) US: How is the contact for that project?US: Homepage?3The last group is formed by fragments which showsome kind of parallelism with the source but whichcannot be resolved by substitution.
(8) US: Which conferences are offered in this win-ter term in the subject of English language?US: Any conferences concerning linguistics ingeneral?2.2.3 ReferenceWe distinguish the following types of referenceto entities: identity or co-reference, subset/supersetand bridging.Co-reference occurs when two or more expres-sions denote the same entity.
Within this group wefound the following types of implicit co-referringexpressions which involve different degrees of ex-plicitness: elided NPs, anaphoric and deictic pro-nouns, deictic NPs, and co-referent definite NPs.Elided NPs are optional arguments, that is, theydon?t need to be in the surface-form of the sentence,but are present in the semantic interpretation.
In (9)there is an anaphoric pronoun and an elided NP bothreferring to the conference Speech TEK West 2006.
(9) US: The Speech TEK West 2006, when does ittake place?LT: 2006-03-30 - 2006-04-01.US: Until when can I hand in a paper [ ]?Bridging is a definite description which refers toan entity related to some entity in the focus of at-tention.
The resolution of bridging requires someinference to be done in order to establish the con-nection between the two entities.
In example (2) insubsection 2.2.1 there is an occurrence of bridging,where the dead-line is meant to be the dead-line ofthe conference currently under discussion.Finally, subset/superset reference takes placewhen a linguistic expression denotes a subset or su-perset of the set of entities denoted by some previ-ous linguistic expression.
Subset/superset referenceis sometimes expressed through two interesting con-textual phenomena: nominal ellipsis3, also called se-mantic ellipsis, and one-NPs4.
Nominal ellipsis oc-curs within an NP and it is namely the noun what3Note, however, that nominal ellipsis does not necessarilyalways denote a subset, but sometimes it can denote a disjointset, or just lexical material which is omitted.4One-NPs are a very rare in our corpus, so we are not con-sidering them in the present study.is missing and must be recovered from the context.Here follows an example:(10) US: Show me the three most important.3 Thematic follow-upWhen looking at the thematic relatedness of thequestions it?s striking how well structured the in-teractions are regarding thematic relatedness.
From1047 queries to the database, 948 (90.54%) follow-up on some previous question or answer, or both.Only 99 questions (9.46%) open a new topic.
725questions (69.25% of the total, 76.48% of the con-nected questions) are related to other questions, 332(31.71% of the total, 35.02% of the connected ques-tions) are related to answers, and 109 (10.41% of thetotal, 11.49% of the connected questions) are con-nected to both questions and answers.
These num-bers don?t say much about how well structured thediscourse is, since the questions could be far awayfrom the questions or answers they are related to.However, this is very seldom the case.
In 60% ofthe cases where the questions are thematically con-nected, they immediately follow the question theyare related to, that is, the two questions are consecu-tive5.
In 16.56% of the cases the questions immedi-ately follow the answer they are related to.
74.58%of the questions, thus, immediately follow up thequestion or/and answer they are thematically relatedto6.Table 1 shows the distribution of occurrencesand distances in segments for each of the rela-tions described in subsection 2.2.1.
We found thatthe most frequent question-to-question relation istheme-entity, followed by the question-to-answer re-lation theme.
As you can see, for all the relations ex-cept theme, most occurrences are between very closestanding questions or questions and answers, mostof them holding between consecutive questions orquestions and answers.
The occurrences of the re-lation theme, however, are distributed along a widerange of distances, 29.70% holding between ques-tions and answers that are 2 and 14 turns away from5By consecutive we mean that there is no intervening queryto the database between the two questions.
This doesn?t implythat there aren?t several intervening utterances and turns.69 questions are consecutive to the question and answer theyare related to, respectively, that?s why the total percentage ofrelated consecutive questions is not 76.56%.4REF.
Q.
THEME E. Q.
THEME P. Q. PARA.
Q. OVERL.
Q. REF.
A.
THEME A.TOTAL 74 338 107 174 29 29 303(7.80%) (35.65%) (11.29%) (18.35%) (3.06%) (3.06%) (31.96%)1 SEGM.
88.73% 81.65% 100% 60.92% 78.57% 83.34% 46.39%2 SEGM.
5.63% 1.86% 0% 8.09% 21.43% 13.33% 10.20%Table 1: Occurrences of the different thematic relationsREL.
/ PHEN.
THEME E. Q.
THEME P. Q.
THEME A. REF.
Q. REF.
A.
CONNECTED TOTALFRAGMENT 53 (54.08%) 17 (16.32%) 3 (3.06%) 21 (21.42%) 0 97 (85.08%) 114BRIDGING 40 (74.07%) 0 3 (5.55%) 1 (1.85%) 0 54 (58.69%) 92DEFINITE NP 26 (78.78%) 0 4 (12.21%) 2 (6.10%) 0 33 (66%) 50DEICTIC NP 19 (51.35%) 0 13 (35.13%) 2 (5.40%) 1 (2.70%) 37 (78.72%) 47ANAPHORIC PRON.
13 (39.39%) 2 (6.06%) 10 (30.30%) 0 5 (15.15%) 33 (39.75%) 83DEICTIC PRON.
2 (75%) 0 1 (25%) 0 0 3 (25%) 12ELIDED NP 9 (69.23%) 0 2 (15.38%) 0 0 13 (61.90%) 21NOMINAL ELLIPSIS 0 1 (7.69%) 6 (46.15%) 1 (7.69%) 5 (38.46%) 13 (81.25%) 16Table 2: Contextual phenomena and the thematic relations holding between the questions containing themand the questions or answers containing the antecedents.each other.
This is because often several entitiesare retrieved with a single query and addressed lateron separately, obtaining all the information neededabout each of them before turning to the next one.We found also quite long distances for paraphrases,which means that the user probably forgot that hehad asked that question, since he could have alsoscrolled back.These particular distributions of thematic rela-tions seem to be dependent on the nature of thetasks.
We found some differences across tasks: theinformation gathering task elicited more refinement,while the information browsing tasks gave rise tomore theme relations.
It is possible that in an in-teraction around an event or topic we may find ad-ditional kinds of thematic relations and differentdistributions.
We also observed different strategiesamong the subjects.
The most common was to askeverything about an entity before turning to the nextone, but some subjects preferred to ask about thevalue of a property for all the entities under discus-sion before turning to the next property.4 Contextual phenomena: distances andthematic relatednessThere are 1113 user utterances in our corpus, 409 ofwhich exhibit some kind of discourse phenomenon,i.e., they are context-dependent in some way.
Thisamounts to 36.16% of the user utterances, a pro-portion which is in the middle of those found in theseveral corpora analyzed by Dahlba?ck and Jo?nsson(1989)7.
The amount of context-dependent user ut-terances, as Dahlba?ck and Jo?nsson (1989) alreadypointed out, as well as the distribution of the dif-ferent relations among questions and answers ex-plained above, may be dependent on the nature ofthe task attempted in the dialogue.Table 2 shows the distribution of the most fre-quent thematic relations holding between the ques-tions containing the contextual phenomena consid-ered in our study and the questions or answers con-taining their antecedents.
The rightmost columnshows the number of occurrences of each of the con-textual phenomena described in subsection 2.2.3.The second column on the right shows the numberof occurrences in which the antecedent is locatedin some previous segment and the question contain-ing the contextual phenomenon is related through athematic relation to the question or answer contain-ing the antecedent.
The percentages shown for eachphenomenon are out of the total number of its oc-currences.
The remaining columns show frequen-7They found a high variance according to the kind of taskcarried out in the different dialogues.
Dialogues from taskswhere there was the possibility to order something containeda higher number of context-dependent user initiatives, up to54.62%, while information browsing dialogues contained asmaller number of context-dependent user initiatives, 16.95%being the lowest amount found.5cies of co-occurrence for each of the phenomena andthematic relations.
The percentages shown for eachphenomenon are out of the total number of its con-nected occurrences.For the majority of investigated phenomena weobserve that most questions exhibiting them standin a thematic relation to the question or answer con-taining the antecedent.
Although there may be sev-eral intermediate turns, the related questions are al-most always consecutive, that is, the segment con-taining the contextual phenomenon immediately fol-lows the segment containing the antecedent.
In theremainder of the cases, the contextual phenomenonand its antecedent are usually in the same segment.However, this is not the case for deictic andanaphoric pronouns.
In most cases their antecedentsare in the same segment and even in the same utter-ance or just one utterance away.
This suggests thatpronouns are produced in a more local context thanother phenomena and their antecedents are first to belooked for in the current segment.For almost all the phenomena the most frequentrelation holding between the question containingthem and the question or answer containing the an-tecedent is the question-to-question relation theme-entity, followed by the question-to-answer relationtheme.
This is not surprising, since we refer back toentities because we keep speaking about them.However, fragments and nominal ellipsis show adifferent distribution.
Fragments are related to theirsources through the question-to-question relationstheme-property and refinement, as well.
Regardingthe distribution of relations across the three differ-ent types of fragments we distinguish in our study,we find that the relations refinement and theme-property only hold between fragments with a fullsource and fragments of type analogy, and their re-spective sources.
On the other hand, practically allfragments with a partial-source stand in a theme-entity relation to their source.
Questions containingnominal ellipsis are mostly related to the precedinganswer both through the relations theme and refine-ment.4.1 Antecedents beyond the boundaries of theimmediately preceding segmentAs we have seen, the antecedents of more implicitco-referring expressions, like pronouns, are very of-ten in the same segment as the expressions.
Theantecedents of less explicit co-referring expressions,like deictic and definite NPs, are mostly in the im-mediately preceding segment, but also often in thesame segment.
About 50% are 2 utterances away,20% between 3 and 5, although we find distances upto 41 utterances for definite NPs.However, there is a small number (11) of cases inwhich the antecedents are found across the bound-aries of the immediately preceding segment.
Thisposes a challenge to systems since the contextneeded for recovering these antecedent is not as lo-cal.
The following example is a case of split an-tecedents.
The antecedent of the elided NP is to befound across the two immediately preceding ques-tions.
Moreover, as you can see, the Wizard is notsure about how to interpret the missing argument,which can be because of the split antecedents, butalso because of the amount of time passed, and/orbecause one of the answers is still missing, that is,more than one segment is open at the same time.
(11) US: Which are the webpages for EuropeanJoint Conferences on Theory and Practiceof Software and International Conference onLinguistic Evidence?LT: Please wait... (waiting time)US: Which are the webpages for InternationalJoint Conference on Neural Networks andTranslating and the Computer 27?LT: http://www.complang.ac, ... (1st answer)US: Up to which date is it possible to send apaper, an abstract [ ]?LT: http://uwb.edu/ijcnn05/, ... (2nd answer)LT: For which conference?US: For all of the conferences I got the web-pages.In the following example the antecedent of thedefinite NP is also to be found beyond the bound-aries of the immediately preceding segment.
(12) US: What is the homepage of the project?LT: http://dip.semanticweb.orgUSER: What is the email address of ChristophBussler?LT: The database does not contain this informa-tion.US: Where does the project take place?6Here the user asks about the email address of a per-son who was previously introduced in the discourseas the coordinator of the project under discussionand then keeps on referring to the project with a def-inite NP.
The intervening question is somehow re-lated to the project, but not directly.
There is a topicshift, as defined by Chai and Jin (2004), where themain topic becomes an entity related to the entity thepreceding question was about.
However, this topicshift is only at a very local level, since the dialogueparticipants keep on speaking about the project, thatis, the topic at a more general level keeps on beingthe same.
We can speak here of thematic nesting,since the second question is about an entity intro-duced in relation to the entity in focus of attentionin the first question, and the third question is againabout the same entity as the first.
The project has notcompletely left the focus, but has remained in sec-ondary focus during the second segment, to becomeagain the main focus in the third segment.
It seemsthat as long as the entity to which the focus of atten-tion has shifted is related to the entity previously infocus of attention, the latter still also remains withinthe focus of attention.5 ConclusionsThe possibility of using contextual phenomena isgiven by certain types of thematic relatedness - espe-cially theme-entity and theme, for co-reference andbridging, and refinement, theme-entity and theme-property, for fragments -, and contiguity of ques-tions.
As we have seen, the immediately preced-ing segment is in most cases the upper limit of thesearch space for the last reference to the entity, orthe elided material in fragments.
The directions ofthe search for antecedents, however, can vary de-pending on the phenomena, since for more implicitreferring expressions antecedents are usually to befound in the same segment, while for less implicitreferring expressions they are to be found in the pre-ceding one.These data are in accordance with what Ahren-berg et al (1990) predict in their model.
Just toconsider the immediately preceding segment as theupper limit of the search space for antecedents isenough and, thus, no tracking of thematic relationsis needed to resolve discourse phenomena.
How-ever, there are occurrences of more explicit typesof co-reference expressions, where the antecedentis beyond the immediately preceding segment.
Aswe have observed, in these cases the interveningsegment/s shift the focus of attention to an entity(maybe provided in some previous answer) closelyrelated to the one in focus of attention in the pre-ceding segment.
It seems that as long as this rela-tion exists, even if there are many segments in be-tween8, the first entity remains in focus of attentionand can be referred to by an implicit deictic or defi-nite NP without any additional retrieval cue.
We canspeak of thematic nesting of segments, which seemsto be analogous to the intentional structure in task-oriented dialogues as in (Grosz and Sidner, 1986),also allowing for reference with implicit devices toentities in the superordinate segments after the sub-ordinated ones have been closed.
It seems, thus, thatthematic structure, like the discourse goals, also im-poses structure on the discourse.These cases, although not numerous, suggest thata more complex discourse structure is needed forQA interactions than one simply based on the dis-course goals.
The local context is given by the dis-course segments, which are determined by the dis-course goals, but a less local context may encompassseveral segments.
As we have seen, reference withimplicit devices to entities in the less local contextis still possible.
What seems to determine this lesslocal context is a unique theme, about which all thesegments encompassed by the context directly or in-directly are.
So, although it does not seem necessaryto track all the thematic transitions between the seg-ments, it seems necessary to categorize the segmentsas being about a particular more global theme.In a system like the one we simulated, having spe-cific tasks in mind and querying structured data, apossible approach to model this extended context,or focus of attention, would be in terms of frames.Every time a new entity is addressed a new frameis activated.
The frame encompasses the entity it-self and the properties holding of it and other enti-ties, as well as those entities.
This would alreadyallow us to successfully resolve bridging and frag-ments with a partial source.
If the focus of atten-8We found up to five intervening segments, one of them be-ing a subsegment.7tion then shifts to one of the related entities, the userdemanding particular information about it, then itsframe is activated, but the previous frame also re-mains somehow active, although to a lesser degree.As long as there is a connection between the enti-ties being talked about and a frame is not explicitlyclosed, by switching to speak about a different en-tity of the same class, for example, frames remainsomehow active and implicit references will be ac-commodated within the activation scope.In principle, the closer the relation to the entitycurrently in focus, the higher the degree of activationof the related entities.
Yet, there may be cases ofambiguity, where only inferences about the goals ofthe user may help to resolve the reference, as in (13):(13) US: How is the contact for that project?LT: daelem@uia.ua.ac.beUS: What is the institute?LT: Centrum voor Nederlandse Taal en Spraak.US: Homepage?Here the property ?Homepage?
could be asked aboutthe institution or the project, the institution beingmore active.
However, the Wizard interpreted it asreferring to the project without hesitation becauseshe knew that subjects were interested in projects,not in organizations.
In order to resolve the ambigu-ity, we would need a system customized for tasks ormake inferences about the goals of the users basedon the kind of information they?ve been asking for.Determining at which level of nesting some expres-sion has to be interpreted may involve plan recogni-tion.However, for open domain systems not having aknowledge-base with structured data it may be muchmore difficult to keep track of the focus of attentionbeyond the strictly local context.
For other kindsof interactions which don?t have such a structurednature as our tasks, this may also be the case.
Forexample, in the information browsing tasks in (Katoet al, 2004), there is not a global topic encompass-ing the whole interaction, but the information needsof the user are given by the information he is en-countering as the interaction proceeds, that is, he isbrowsing the information in a free way, without hav-ing particular goals or particular pieces of informa-tion he wants to obtain in mind.
In such cases itmay be difficult to determine how long frames areactive if the nesting goes very far, as well as makingany inferences about the user?s plans.
However, itmight also be the case, that in that kind of interac-tions no implicit referring expressions are used be-yond the segmental level, because there is no suchan extended context.
In order to find out, a studywith interactive data should be carried out.AcknowledgementsThe research reported here has been conducted inthe projects QUETAL and COLLATE II funded bythe German Ministry for Education and Research,grants no.
01IWC02 and 01INC02, respectively.
Weare also grateful to Bonnie Webber for her helpfulcomments on the contents of this paper.ReferencesAhrenberg Lars, Dahlba?ck Nils and Arne Jo?nsson 1990.Discourse representation and discourse managementfor natural language interfaces.
Proceeding of theSecond Nordic Conference on Text Comprehension inMan and Machine, Ta?by, Sweeden, 1990.Jaime G. Carbonell.
1983.
Discourse pragmatics andellipsis resolution in task-oriented natural languageinterfaces.
Proceedings of the 21st annual meetingon Association for Computational Linguistics, Cam-bridge, Massachusetts, 1983Chai Joyce Y. and Ron Jin.
2004.
Discourse Statusfor Context Questions.
HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshopon Pragmatics in Question Answering (HLT-NAACL2004) Boston, MA, USA, May 3-7, 2004Dahlba?ck Nils and Arne Jo?nsson.
1989.
EmpiricalStudies of Discourse Representations for Natural Lan-guage Interfaces.
Proceedings of the Fourth Confer-ence of the European Chapter of the ACL (EACL?89),Manchester.Grosz Barbara and Candance Sidner.
1986.
Attention,Intention and the Structure of Discourse.
Computa-tional Linguistics 12(3): 175-204.Kato Tsuneaki, Fukumoto Junichi, Masui Fumito andNoriko Kando.
2004.
Handling Information AccessDialogue through QA Technologies - A novel chal-lenge for open-domain question answering.
HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop on Pragmatics in QuestionAnswering (HLT-NAACL 2004) Boston, MA, USA,May 3-7, 2004Sun Mingyu and Joycie J. Chai.
2006.
Towards Intel-ligent QA Interfaces: Discourse Processing for Con-text Questions.
International Conference on IntelligentUser Interfaces, Sydney, Australia, January 20068
