Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Constraints and Language Processing (CSLP-06), pages 1?8,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsConstraints in Language Processing: Do Grammars Count?Marieke van der FeenDepartment of ArtificialIntelligence,University of Groningen,Grote Kruisstraat 2/1,9712 TS Groningen,The Netherlandsmvdfeen@ai.rug.nlPetra HendriksCenter for Language andCognition Groningen,University of Groningen,P.O.
Box 716,9700 AS Groningen,The Netherlandsp.hendriks@rug.nlJohn HoeksCenter for Language andCognition Groningen,University of GroningenP.O.
Box 716,9700 AS Groningen,The Netherlandsj.c.j.hoeks@rug.nlAbstractOne of the central assumptions of Opti-mality Theory is the hypothesis of strictdomination among constraints.
A fewstudies have suggested that this hypothe-sis is too strong and should be abandonedin favor of a weaker cumulativity hy-pothesis.
If this suggestion is correct, weshould be able to find evidence for cumu-lativity in the comprehension of Gappingsentences, which lack explicit syntacticclues in the form of the presence of a fi-nite verb.
On the basis of a comparisonbetween several computational models ofconstraint evaluation, we conclude thatthe comprehension of Gapping sentencesdoes not yield compelling evidenceagainst the strict domination hypothesis.1 IntroductionA linguistic framework which has gained a con-siderable amount of attention in recent years isOptimality Theory (Prince and Smolensky,1993/2004).
Optimality Theory (henceforth OT)is not only used for analyzing and explaininglinguistic phenomena in the domain of phonol-ogy, but also in the domains of morphology, syn-tax, semantics and pragmatics.
In contrast tomore traditional linguistic frameworks, OT as-sumes grammatical constraints to be violable.Because constraints are formulated in such a waythat they are maximally general (and perhapseven universal across languages), these con-straints may conflict.
To resolve conflicts amongconstraints, constraints are assumed to differ instrength.
It is better to violate a weaker constraintthan it is to violate a stronger constraint.
Thegrammatical structure is the one that violates theleast highly ranked (i.e., strong) constraints.A fundamental property of OT is the principleof strict domination.
This means that each con-straint has complete priority over all constraintsranked lower in the constraint hierarchy.
A num-ber of recent studies, however, have called intoquestion this fundamental property of OT.
Keller(2001) argues that constraint violations must becumulative to account for the pattern of relativeacceptability with respect to the phenomenon ofGapping.
J?ger and Rosenbach (to appear) drawa similar conclusion on the basis of the observedvariation with respect to the English genitive (theking?s palace versus the palace of the king).In this study, we focus on the linguistic phe-nomenon of Gapping.
The central question iswhether the comprehension of Gapping sen-tences provides evidence in favor of cumulativityof constraint violations.
In section 2, we intro-duce the phenomenon and discuss the possibilityof an OT model of Gapping.
In section 3, weconsider different kinds of cumulativity.
Section4 discusses the way we modeled four differentevaluation algorithms based on these kinds ofcumulativity.
A comparison between our compu-tational models of constraint evaluation in sec-tion 5 suggests that the comprehension of Gap-ping does not provide compelling evidence forabandoning the strict domination hypothesis.2 GappingGapping is a grammatical operation that deletescertain subconstituents in the second conjunct ofa coordinate structure, as in (1):1(1) Some ate beans, and others rice.The deleted material always includes the finiteverb, but may also include further constituentssuch as the direct object.
As a result, it may notalways be possible to uniquely identify whichelements were left out.
As an example, considerthe following sentence:(2) John greeted Paul yesterday and Georgetoday.This sentence is ambiguous between reading (3),where first John greeted Paul, and then Johngreeted George, and reading (4), where first Johngreeted Paul, and then George greeted Paul.
(3) John greeted Paul yesterday and Johngreeted George today.
(4) John greeted Paul yesterday and Georgegreeted Paul today.The reading in (3) is traditionally analyzed asresulting from the operation of conjunction re-duction, whereas the reading in (4) is analyzed asresulting from Gapping of the finite verb and thedirect object.2.1 Functional constraints on GappingBased on previous work on Gapping, Kuno(1976) notes that several non-syntactic factorsaffect the acceptability and interpretation of Gap-ping.
One of these factors is the distance betweenthe remnants in the second conjunct and theircounterparts in the first conjunct:(5) The Minimal Distance Principle:The two constituents left behind by Gap-ping can be most readily coupled withthe constituents (of the same structures)in the first conjunct that were processedlast of all.According to this principle, interpretation (3)should be preferred for sentence (2) because it ismore preferable to couple George in the secondconjunct to the direct object Paul in the first con-junct, than to the more distant subject John.
Thispreference is confirmed by experimental evi-dence (Carlson, 2001).
A further principle aboutGapping is that the deleted material has to repre-sent contextually given information, whereas theremnants in the second conjunct have to consti-tute new information.
This is captured in the fol-lowing principle:(6) The Functional Sentence Perspective(FSP) Principle of Gapping:a.
Constituents deleted by Gappingmust be contextually known.
On theother hand, the two constituents left be-hind by Gapping necessarily representnew information and, therefore, must bepaired with constituents in the first con-junct that represent new information.b.
It is generally the case that thecloser a given constituent is to sentence-final position, the newer the informationit represents in the sentence.c.
Constituents that are clearlymarked for nonanaphoricity necessarilyrepresent new information in violation of(b).
Similarly, constituents that appearclosest tot sentence-final position neces-sarily represent old information (in vio-lation of (b)) if coreferential constituentsappear in the corresponding position inthe preceding discourse.This principle explains the observation that in asuitable context, interpretation (4) can becomethe preferred interpretation for (2) (but see Hoekset al (2006) for experimental evidence that inaddition to context also prosody has to be in ac-cordance with a Gapping reading to make thisreading the preferred reading):(7) When did John and George greet Paul?John greeted Paul yesterday and Georgegreeted Paul today.In this example, John, Paul and George are allcontextually introduced.
But only John andGeorge are subjects in the context sentence andhence can be interpreted as contrastive topics inthe target sentence.
Contrast has a similar effectas newness.
Because of this effect of context, theGapping reading can become the preferred read-ing for (2).
Two further principles proposed byKuno are (8) and (9).
(8) The Tendency for Subject-Predicate In-terpretation:When Gapping leaves an NP and a VPbehind, the two constituents are readilyinterpreted as constituting a sententialpattern, with the NP representing thesubject of the VP.2(9) The Requirement for Simplex-SententialRelationship:The two constituents left over by Gap-ping are most readily interpretable as en-tering into a simplex-sentential relation-ship.
The intelligibility of gapped sen-tences declines drastically if there is nosuch relationship between the two con-stituents.The principle in (8) is meant to account for a dif-ference in preference with object control verbsversus subject control verbs.
The principle in (9)reflects the observation that Gapping cannotleave behind remnants that are part of a subordi-nate clause.
Kuno notes that this latter constraintseems to be the strongest of the four principles,being nearly inviolable, but does not make theinteraction between his principles explicit.2.2 An OT model of GappingAs Kuno already observes, the FSP Principleseems to be able to override the Minimal Dis-tance Principle.
This observation is regarded byKeller (2001) as evidence that Gapping is subjectto constraint competition in an optimality theo-retic sense.
Based on Kuno?s principles, Kellerdevelops an OT model of Gapping, which is ableto account for the pattern of relative acceptabilityof Gapping sentences.
According to this model,the degree of acceptability of a candidate struc-ture depends on the number and type of re-rankings required to make the structure optimal(Keller, 1998).Keller?s OT model differs from standard OTin a number of ways.
Firstly, a distinction ismade between soft and hard constraints.
Hardconstraints cause strong acceptability when vio-lated, while violation of soft constraints causesonly mild unacceptability.
According to Keller,the Requirement for Simplex-Sentential Rela-tionship is such a hard constraint.
The distinctionbetween soft and hard constraints is needed inKeller?s model to avoid the problem of overgen-eration of acceptability differences.Secondly, Keller?s model assumes that con-straint violations are cumulative.
According tohis model, the degree of unacceptability in-creases with the number of constraints violated.In standard OT, on the other hand, no number ofviolations of weaker constraints can override oneviolation of a stronger constraint, in accordancewith the principle of strict domination.The aim of Keller?s OT model is to accountfor the pattern of relative acceptability of Gap-ping sentences.
The aim of the present study, onthe other hand, is to account for the comprehen-sion of Gapping sentences.
Nevertheless, we fol-low Keller in adopting Kuno?s functional princi-ples (reformulated as OT constraints) for our OTmodel because Kuno?s principles are principlesof comprehension.Our model differs from Keller?s model in sev-eral essential aspects, though.
We assume that allconstraints are violable, in accordance with thebasic assumptions of OT.
Because certain strongconstraints are not violated by the data under dis-cussion, they simply appear to be inviolable.Keller?s second assumption, the assumption thatconstraint violations are cumulative, is the topicof investigation of this study.3 Cumulativity of constraint violationsIn this section we discuss the different ways OTconstraints can interact.
In principle, OT con-straints can interact in an unrestricted way, or inone of several more or less restricted ways.3.1 Unrestricted constraint interactionOT as a linguistic theory is derived from Har-monic Grammar (Legendre et al, 1990).
In Har-monic Grammar (henceforth HG), each con-straint is associated with a positive or negativenumerical weight value.
For each candidate, aso-called Harmony value is calculated by sum-ming the numerically weighted constraints.
Fromthe set of candidates, the candidate with thehighest Harmony value is selected as the optimalcandidate.
Consequently, the interaction amongconstraints in HG is cumulative.
Each constraintviolation lowers the Harmony value of the can-didate.
This type of constraint interaction is es-sentially unrestricted.To account for natural language interpretation,however, unrestricted cumulativity is too liberal,as is shown by OT analyses of other phenomena.With respect to Gapping, if Kuno and Keller areright, no amount of violations on weaker con-straints of an interpretation satisfying Simplex-Sentential Relationship can make an interpreta-tion violating Simplex-Sentential Relationshipthe preferred one:(10) Who did John promise to examine who?John promised Paul to examine George,and Ringo Bob.If Simplex-Sentential Relationship indeed is astrong constraint, (10) should only mean that3Ringo promised to examine Bob (satisfying Sim-plex-Sentential Relationship but violating theMinimal Distance Principle and the FSP), andnever that John promised to examine Bob (vio-lating Simplex-Sentential Relationship).For the analysis of natural language, therefore,but also for the establishment of cross-linguisticgeneralizations (see Legendre et al, 2006), weseem to require a type of constraint interactionwhich is more restricted than simple numericalconstraint weighting.3.2 Restricted constraint interactionIn this section we discuss four ways to restrictconstraint interaction: (1) strict domination, (2)local restricted cumulativity, (3) global restrictedcumulativity, and (4) Keller?s counting cumula-tivity.A B C D  Candidate 1  * * *Candidate 2 *!Tableau 1: Strict dominationStrict domination is illustrated in tableau 1.
Theconstraints are ordered from left to right in thetop row in order of descending strength.
Understrict domination, no number of violations of theweaker constraints B, C and D is able to overridea violation of the strongest constraint A.A B C DCandidate 1   *!
*!  Candidate 2  *Tableau 2: Local restricted cumulativityTableau 2 illustrates local restricted cumulativity.When the weaker constraints C and D are simul-taneously violated, their joint effect can bestronger than their linear sum.
As a result, to-gether they are able to override the immediatelydominating constraint B.
This type of cumulativ-ity is similar to the effects of local conjunction.The result is a conjoined constraint C&D, whichis ranked immediately above constraint B in thehierarchy.A B C DCandidate 1   *!
*!  Candidate 2 *Tableau 3: Global restricted cumulativityAn illustration of global restricted cumulativity isgiven in tableau 3.
In this case, the weaker con-straints C and D together are able to override astronger, but not necessarily immediately domi-nating, constraint A.
Again, this type of cumula-tivity is similar to the effects of local conjunc-tion.
The result is a conjoined constraint C&D,which is ranked anywhere above C and D in thehierarchy.A B C DCandidate 1  * *!
*  Candidate 2 *Tableau 4: Keller?s counting cumulativityKeller?s counting cumulativity is illustrated intableau 4.
For Keller?s cumulativity, the hierar-chical relation between the constraints is irrele-vant.
The candidate with the fewest constraintviolations is always optimal.
In Keller?s model,constraint violations are assumed to result in agradient pattern.
The more constraints are vio-lated by a given Gapping construction, the lessacceptable the construction is predicted to be.
Ofcourse, this type of cumulativity will greatlyovergenerate in production as well as in compre-hension if every constraint violation counts as anequally serious violation.
For this reason, a sys-tem employing this type of cumulativity mustmake a distinction between soft and hard con-straints.
Hard constraints cause strong unaccept-ability.
This extra assumption serves to restrictthe overgenerating power of this type of cumula-tivity.The four types of cumulativity discussed herediffer in the amount of freedom they allow.
Strictdomination is the most restricted type of con-straint interaction, local restricted cumulativitythe one but most restricted type, global restrictedcumulativity the two but most restricted type,and Keller?s cumulativity the least restrictedtype.
As a result, strict domination yields thestrongest  hypothesis, and Keller?s cumulativitythe weakest hypothesis.
The question we set outto answer in the next section is how stronglyconstraint interaction must be restricted to ac-count for the comprehension of Gapping sen-tences.4 Testing the evaluation algorithmsTo test the predictions of the four types of cumu-lativity discussed in the previous section, a com-puter model was developed in Prolog.
The input4to the model is a Gapping sentence in Dutch.
Thefirst conjunct is manually parsed.
Informationabout the givenness of its constituents, the selec-tional restrictions of the main verb of the firstconjunct, and featural information for all NPs isadded.
The output of the model is formed by thepossible couplings of constituents in the secondconjunct with constituents in the first conjunct.In addition, for each possible coupling the con-straint profile is given.
For each possible cou-pling, the model also gives a reconstruction ofthe second conjunct by placing the constituentsfrom the second conjunct in the position of theconstituents they are coupled with in the firstconjunct.4.1 Constraint rankingThe constraints implemented in the model wereKuno?s principles, reformulated as OT con-straints, augmented with constraints on parallel-ism (cf.
Carlson, 2001), thematic selection(Hoeks and Hendriks, 2005) and word order(Lamers and de Hoop, 2004).
The constraintranking used is:(11) Categorial Parallelism >> Simplex-Sentential Relationship >> FSP >> The-matic Selection >> Subject Precedes Ob-ject >> Syntactic Parallelism >> Mini-mal Distance >> Subject-Predicate In-terpretation >> Featural ParallelismThe constraint Categorial Parallelism is added toensure that constituents are coupled with con-stituents of the same syntactic category only.
Itprevents, for example, that in (2) today is cou-pled with Paul.
Thematic Selection expresses theselectional restrictions verbs may impose on theirarguments.
For example, the verb bake requiresan inanimate object, the verb introduce requiresan animate object, and the verb take can combinewith either an animate or an inanimate object(see section 4.3).
The constraint Thematic Selec-tion is violated if the candidate interpretationdoes not satisfy these selectional restrictions, forexample if the object of the verb bake is animate.According to the constraint Subject Precedes Ob-ject, the subject must linearly precede the object.Syntactic Parallelism requires the two conjunctsto have the same syntactic structure.
The con-straint Featural Parallelism, finally, promotes thecoupling of constituents which share featuressuch as animacy, definiteness, number and gen-der.
The ranking of these constraints was deter-mined on the basis of the literature (Carlson,2001; Kuno, 1976) and via comparison of rele-vant sentences and their meanings.4.2 Computational considerationsThe different types of cumulativity were compu-tationally modeled as different ways of evaluat-ing the constraint profiles.Strict domination can be modeled as numeri-cal weighting with exponential weights.Local restricted cumulativity can be modeledas numerical weighting as well, if the weights arechosen in such a way that the sum of two adja-cent constraints is larger than the weight of thedirectly dominating constraint.
This is the case if,for example, B is 0.50, C is 0.26, and D is 0.25 intableau 2.
In our model, local restricted cumula-tivity only applies to the constraints ThematicSelection, Subject Precedes Object and SyntacticParallelism, and allows the constraints SubjectPrecedes Object and Syntactic Parallelism to-gether to override the directly dominating con-straint Thematic Selection.Global restricted cumulativity, on the otherhand, cannot be captured straightforwardly in asystem with weight values.
To implement thisevaluation method, therefore, we made explicituse of constraint conjunction.
The newly formedconjoined constraint C&D was located in thehierarchy somewhere above its constituting con-straints C and D. Because violation of this con-joined constraint is dependent on the violation ofeach of the constituting constraints, the new con-straint can only be evaluated in a second roundof evaluation after all other constraints have beenevaluated.
This is an unfortunate complication ofour implementation.
Legendre et al (2006: 352)show that this type of cumulativity can be im-plemented with weight values if constraint con-junction is assumed to involve a superlinearcombination of weights (through summation aswell as multiplication).
In our model, only theconstraints Minimal Distance and Subject-Predicate Interpretation were allowed to conjoin.The resulting conjoined constraint was locatedabove Categorial Parallelism in the hierarchy.For the fourth method of evaluation, Keller?scounting cumulativity, simply counting the num-ber of constraint violations suffices.
By applyingone of these four evaluation algorithms, thecomputational model yields an optimal interpre-tation for each combination of input and evalua-tion algorithm.54.3 Input sentencesTo test the four evaluation algorithms, we fed themodel three types of input: (i) 10 Gapping sen-tences taken from a corpus, (ii) test sentencestaken from all five conditions of Carlson?s(2001) study on Gapping, and (iii) 15 hand-crafted sentences.The Eindhoven corpus (uit den Boogaart,1975) is an annotated corpus of Dutch writtentext of about 750 000 words.
We scanned thecorpus for suitable Gapping sentences, whichhad to occur unembedded, contain an overt con-junction, and should not involve other deletionoperations as well.
Unfortunately, we only found10 such Gapping sentences in the corpus, pre-sumably because Gapping is quite rare.
For allten sentences, all evaluation methods producedthe same outputs.
Nine out of the ten optimalinterpretations did not violate any of the con-straints.
One sentence involved a constraint vio-lation by all models, namely a violation of theconstraint Featural Parallelism:(12) Groep 1 trok de arm na vijftien minutenuit de testkamer, en groep 4 na een uur.Group 1 pulled the arm after fifteenminutes from the test room and group 4after an hour.The most plausible interpretation of this sentenceis the interpretation that group 4 pulled the armfrom the test room after an hour.
The interpreta-tion selected by all evaluation methods, however,was that group 1 pulled group 4 from the testroom after an hour, thus satisfying Minimal Dis-tance but violating Featural Parallelism.
It maybe that the strong parallelism between group 1and group 4 sets up a contrast which evokes theconstraint FSP even in the absence of an explicitlinguistic context.
If this is true, Minimal Dis-tance must be violated in order to satisfy FSP.We also fed the models test sentences takenfrom Carlson?s (2001) written questionnaire.Carlson studied the interaction between The-matic Selection, Featural Parallelism and Mini-mal Distance by varying verb type (see the dis-cussion of Thematic Selection in section 4.1) andproperties of the noun phrases.
She distinguishedfive conditions: the Bake A condition (Alicebakes cakes for tourists and Caroline for herfamily), the Bake B condition (Alice bakes cakesfor tourists and brownies for her family), theTake A condition (Josh visited the office duringthe vacation and Sarah during the week), theTake B condition (Josh visited Marjorie duringthe vacation and Sarah during the week) and theIntroduce condition (Dan amazed the judges withhis talent and James with his musicality).The four evaluation algorithms behaved ex-actly the same on all five conditions of Carlsonbecause none of Carlson?s sentences involves asimultaneous violation of Subject Precedes Ob-ject and Syntactic Parallelism (which would giverise to local restricted cumulativity in our model)or a simultaneous violation of Minimal Distanceand Subject-Predicate Interpretation (whichwould give rise to global restricted cumulativityin our model).
As a result, all models yielded a100% Gapping response for Carlson?s Bake Acondition (compared to Carlson?s subjects 81%)because for all models a violation of ThematicSelection is more serious than a violation ofMinimal Distance.
Furthermore, all modelsyielded a 100% non-Gapping response for herBake B condition (compared to Carlson?s sub-jects 97%) because a Gapping response violatesThematic Selection, Minimal Distance and Fea-tural Parallelism whereas a non-Gapping re-sponse satisfies all three constraints.
Finally, allmodels yielded a 100% non-Gapping responsefor Carlson?s Take A condition (compared toCarlson?s subjects 60%), her Take B condition(compared to Carlson?s subjects 96%) and herIntroduce condition (compared to Carlson?s sub-jects 79%) because for all models a violation ofMinimal Distance is more serious than a viola-tion of Featural Parallelism, given the constraintranking in (11).So all models correctly predicted the interpre-tational preferences found in Carlson?s experi-ment.
However, subjects?
percentages of non-Gapping responses on the Take A, Take B andIntroduce condition varied considerably.
Thisvariation seems to be due to differences betweenthe features of the NPs involved.
In particular, inthe Take A condition the feature animacy playeda role, which seems to have a stronger effect thanthe other grammatical features that were manipu-lated.
However, our constraint Featural Parallel-ism does not distinguish between animacy andother grammatical features.
Moreover, our OTmodel is unable to capture the gradience thatseems to result from the interaction between fea-tures.4.4 Generating different predictionsBecause the four evaluation algorithms behavedidentically on all sentences taken from the corpusas well as on all sentences types from Carlson?s6study, we had to construct sentences on the basisof expected constraint violations in order to gen-erate different predictions for the four evaluationalgorithms.
The following sentence is predictedto distinguish between strict domination and lo-cal restricted cumulativity:(13) John picked a rose, and a tulip Paul.If hearers interpret this sentence as meaning thata tulip picked Paul, they will have violated thestronger constraint Thematic Selection in orderto satisfy the two weaker constraints SubjectPrecedes Object and Syntactic Parallelism.
Thisthen would constitute evidence for local re-stricted cumulativity.
If, on the other hand, hear-ers interpret this sentence as meaning that Paulpicked a tulip, then this is evidence for strictdomination.
Sentence (14) distinguishes betweenstrict domination and global restricted cumulativ-ity:(14) John asked him to get Paul, and Georgeto bring Ringo.Because him is a pronoun, it counts as given forevaluating the constraint FSP.
If hearers interpretthis sentence as meaning that John asked Georgeto bring Ringo, they will have violated thestronger constraint FSP in order to satisfy theweaker constraints Minimal Distance and Sub-ject-Predicate Interpretation.
Because FSP doesnot immediately dominate the weaker con-straints, this would be evidence for global re-stricted cumulativity.
To distinguish betweenstrict domination and Keller?s counting cumula-tivity, consider the following sentence:(15) The children promised John to stop, andthe neighbors to continue.If hearers interpret this sentence as meaning thatthe neighbors promised John to continue, theyviolate the single stronger constraint MinimalDistance in favor of satisfaction of the twoweaker constraints Subject-Predicate Interpreta-tion and Featural Parallelism.
Because these con-straints would all be considered soft constraintsaccording to Keller?s distinction between hardand soft constraints, Keller?s counting cumulativ-ity predicts that this interpretation is preferred.The strict domination hypothesis, on the otherhand, predicts that the interpretation is preferredaccording to which the children promised theneighbors to continue, since it is more importantto satisfy the stronger constraint Minimal Dis-tance than any number of weaker constraints.5 Results and discussionFor all Gapping sentences occurring in the Eind-hoven corpus and all Gapping sentences takenfrom the written part of Carlson?s psycholinguis-tic study, the four evaluation algorithms yieldedidentical results.
These sentences therefore donot shed any light on the central question of thisstudy, namely whether the strict domination hy-pothesis should be abandoned in favor of aweaker cumulativity hypothesis.To determine which evaluation algorithmmodels the way comprehenders process languagebest, we must look at the interpretations of sen-tences such as (13), (14) and (15).
We presented10 participants with a written questionnaire,which included 15 sentences distinguishing be-tween the four evaluation algorithms.
The readeris referred to van der Feen (2005) for the com-plete list of sentences.
The results show thatthere does not seem to be a clear preference ininterpretation for sentences such as (13), leavingthe distinction between strict domination andlocal restricted cumulativity undecided.
For sen-tences such as (14), on the other hand, thereseems to be a clear preference for the readingsupported by global restricted cumulativity.
Sen-tences such as (15), finally, show no effects at allof Keller?s counting cumulativity.
For only onesentence only one subject preferred the interpre-tation according to which the neighbors promisedJohn to continue, which favors the strict domina-tion hypothesis and goes against Keller?s cumu-lativity algorithm.
This suggests that constraintson comprehension may be different from theprinciples governing acceptability judgments.Boersma (2004) argues that the paralinguistictask of providing acceptability judgments in-volves comprehension, but under a reverse map-ping between meaning and form.
An alternativeview is that acceptability judgments involve amapping from the given form to its optimalmeaning (?what do I think the sentence means??
),followed by a mapping from that meaning to theoptimal form for that meaning (?how would Iexpress that meaning??
), thus involving princi-ples of comprehension as well as production.To conclude, there seems to be a slight indica-tion of global restricted cumulativity in the com-prehension of Gapping, but further study with alarger pool of subjects is required to confirmthese initial findings.7However, a few remarks are in place here.First, note that for hearers to prefer the interpre-tation that Paul picked a tulip for (13), the hearerhas to find some motivation in the linguistic con-text of the utterance for why the speaker chose toput the object first.
In the absence of such a con-text supporting a non-canonical word order, thereading that Paul picked a tulip might be dis-preferred anyway.Also in sentence (14), context seems to play acrucial role.
Although in general pronouns maybe used to refer to given material, in certain con-texts pronouns can be emphatically stressed.
Ifthe pronoun in (14) is stressed, it is much easierto couple George to him to obtain the readingthat John asked George to bring Ringo.
This ef-fect of context and prosody may have been themain reason for the observed preferences.6 ConclusionA central principle of Optimality Theory is thehypothesis of strict domination among con-straints.
In this paper we investigated whetherthis hypothesis should be abandoned in favor ofthe weaker hypothesis that constraint violationsare cumulative.
Studying the effects of four dif-ferent evaluation algorithms (three of which dis-play some kind of cumulativity) on the compre-hension of Gapping sentences, we found a slightindication of cumulativity effects.
However,these effects are likely to disappear if the contextand prosodic structure of the utterance are takeninto account.AcknowledgmentsThe authors thank three anonymous reviewersfor their useful comments and suggestions.
Thisresearch was funded by grant # 015.001.103from  NWO, awarded to Petra Hendriks.ReferencesPaul Boersma.
2004.
A stochastic OT account ofparalinguistic tasks such as grammaticality andprototypicality judgments.
Unpublished manu-script, University of Amsterdam.
Rutgers Optimal-ity Archive #648.Katy Carlson.
2001.
The Effects of Parallelism andProsody in the Processing of Gapping Structures.Language and Speech, 44(1):1-26.John Hoeks, Petra Hendriks, and Louisa Zijlstra.2006.
The Predominance of Nonstructural Factorsin the Processing of Gapping Sentences.
In: R. Sunand N. Miyake (eds.
), Proceedings of the 28th An-nual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society.John Hoeks, and Petra Hendriks.
2005.
OptimalityTheory and human sentence processing: The caseof coordination.
In: B.G.
Bara, L. Barsalou, and M.Bucciarelli (eds.
), Proceedings of the 27th AnnualMeeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Erlbaum,Mahwah, NJ, pp.
959-964.Gerhard J?ger, and Anette Rosenbach.
To appear.
Thewinner takes it all - almost.
Cumulativity in gram-matical variation.
Linguistics.Frank Keller.
1998.
Gradient Grammaticality as anEffect of Selective Constraint Re-ranking.
In: M.C.Gruber, D. Higgins, K.S.
Olson, and T.
Wysocki(eds.)
Papers from the 34th Meeting of the ChicagoLinguistic Society.
Vol.
2: The Panels, Chicago, pp.95-109.Frank Keller.
2001.
Experimental Evidence for Con-straint Competition in Gapping Constructions.
In:G. M?ller and W. Sternefeld (eds.
), Competition inSyntax, Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, pp.
211-248.Susumo Kuno.
1976.
Gapping: A Functional Analy-sis.
Linguistic Inquiry, 7:300-318.Monique Lamers, and Helen de Hoop.
2004.
The roleof animacy information in human sentence proc-essing captured in four conflicting constraints.
In:H. Christiansen, P. Rossen Skadhauge, and J. Vil-ladsen (eds.
), Constraint Solving and LanguageProcessing.
Workshop proceedings, Roskilde De-partment of Computer Science, Roskilde Univer-sity, pp.
102-113.G?raldine Legendre, Yoshiro Miyata, and PaulSmolensky.
1990.
Harmonic Grammar - A formalmulti-level theory of linguistic well-formedness:An application.
In: Proceedings of the Twelfth An-nual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society,Erlbaum, Cambridge, MA, pp.
388-395.G?raldine Legendre, Antonella Sorace, and PaulSmolensky.
2006.
The Optimality Theory - Har-monic Grammar Connection.
In: P. Smolensky andG.
Legendre (eds.
), The Harmonic Mind, Vol.
2,MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, pp.
339-402.Alan Prince, and Paul Smolensky.
2004.
OptimalityTheory: Constraint interaction in generativegrammar.
Oxford, Blackwell.
Previously distrib-uted as Technical Report RuCCSTR-2, NewBrunswick NJ, Rutgers Center for Cognitive Sci-ence, Rutgers University, 1993.P.C.
Uit den Boogaart.
1975.
Woordfrequenties ingeschreven en gesproken Nederlands.
WerkgroepFrequentie-onderzoek van het Nederlands.
Oost-hoek, Scheltema & Holkema, Utrecht.Marieke Van der Feen.
2005.
Do rules add up?
Astudy of the application of Optimality Theory to theinterpretation of gapping.
MSc Thesis ArtificialIntelligence, University of Groningen.8
