Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Scalable Natural Language Understanding, pages 25?32,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsIncreasing the coverage of a domain independent dialogue lexicon withVERBNETBenoit Crabbe?
?, Myroslava O.
Dzikovska?, William de Beaumont?, Mary Swift??
ICCS-HCRC, University of Edinburgh, 2 Buccleuch Place, EH8 9LW, Edinburgh, UK{bcrabbe,mdzikovs}@inf.ed.ac.uk?Department of Computer Science, University of Rochester, Rochester NY, USA{wdebeaum,swift}@cs.rochester.eduAbstractThis paper investigates how to extend cov-erage of a domain independent lexicon tai-lored for natural language understanding.We introduce two algorithms for addinglexical entries from VERBNET to the lexi-con of the TRIPS spoken dialogue system.We report results on the efficiency of themethod, discussing in particular precisionversus coverage issues and implicationsfor mapping to other lexical databases.1 IntroductionThis paper explores how different lexicons can beintegrated with the goal of extending coverage ofa deep parser and semantic interpreter.
Lexicalsemantic databases (Kipper et al, 2000; Johnsonand Fillmore, 2000; Dorr, 1997) use a frame-basedmodel of lexical semantics.
Each database groupswords in classes where predicative words and theirarguments are described.
The classes are generallyorganised in an inheritance structure.
Each suchdatabase can be used, among other things, to per-form semantic interpretation.
However, their actualstructures are quite different, reflecting different un-derlying methodological approaches to lexical de-scription, and this results in representation that arenot directly compatible.
Since no such database hasfull coverage of English, it is worth combining themin order to get a lexicon with better coverage and aunified representation for English.We explore the issues related to merging verbdescriptions from two lexical databases, whichhave both syntactic and semantic incompatibilities,and compare two techniques for aligning semanticclasses and the syntax-semantics mappings betweenthem.
The resulting lexicon is to be used in preciseinterpretation tasks, so its consistency and accuracyare a high priority.
Thus, though it is possible to gen-erate lexical entries automatically (Kwon and Hovy,2006; Swift, 2005), we use a semi-automatic methodin which an expert hand-checks the automaticallygenerated entries before adding them to the lexicon.Therefore, our goal is to maximise the number ofnew useful entries added to the lexicon while min-imising the number of entries that are discarded orhand-edited.We take the mapping between the TRIPS lexiconand the VERBNET lexical database as a case studyfor our experiment.
The TRIPS lexicon is used to-gether with a parser to provide a natural languageunderstanding component for several dialogue ap-plications in different domains.
It outputs highly de-tailed semantic representations suitable for complexdialogue tasks such as problem-solving and tutoringdialogue, inter alia.
An essential feature of TRIPSis the integration of a detailed lexical semantic rep-resentation, semantic classes and theta role assign-ments in the parsing process.Semantic types and role labelling are helpful inboth deep (Tetreault, 2005) and shallow interpreta-tion tasks (Narayanan and Harabagiu, 2004).
TRIPSprovides a convenient test case because its grammaris already equipped with the formal devices requiredto build up a frame-based semantic representationincluding this information.11While wide coverage grammars such as the English Re-25We chose VERBNET to extend the TRIPS lexiconbecause it includes a detailed syntax-semantic map-pings, thus providing a more convenient interface tothe syntactic component of the grammar than lexi-cons where this connection is left unclear, such asFRAMENET.
However the methods described hereare designed to be reusable for merging other lexi-cal databases, in particular we intend to experimentwith FRAMENET in the near future.The plan of the paper is as follows: we first de-scribe the target lexicon (Section 2) and the sourcelexicon (Section 3) for our experiment before de-scribing the methodology for integration (Section 4).We finally present an evaluation of the techniques inSection 5.2 The TRIPS LexiconThe TRIPS lexicon (Dzikovska, 2004) is the targetof the mapping procedure we describe in Section4.
It includes syntactic and semantic informationnecessary to build semantic representations usablein dialogue systems.
The TRIPS parser is equippedwith a fairly detailed grammar, but a major restric-tion on coverage in new domains is often lack oflexical information.
The lexicon used in our eval-uation comprised approximately 700 verb lemmaswith 1010 senses (out of approximately 2500 totalword senses, covering both open- and closed-classwords).
The lexicon is designed for incrementalgrowth, since the lexical representation is domain-independent and the added words are then re-usedin new domains.A graphical representation of the informationstored in the TRIPS lexicon and used in parsing isshown in Figure 1.
The lexicon is a list of canon-ical word entries each of which is made of a setof sense definitions comprised of a LF type and asyntax-semantic template.Semantic classes (LF types) in the TRIPS lexi-con are organised in a domain-independent ontol-ogy (the LF ontology).
The LF Ontology was orig-inally based on a simplified version of FRAMENETsource Grammar (Copestake and Flickinger, 2000) build deepsemantic representations which account for scoping and tempo-ral structure, their lexicons do not provide information relatedto word senses and role labels, in part due to the additional dif-ficulty involved building a wide coverage lexicon with the nec-essary lexical semantic information.The tourists admired the paintingsLSUBJ LOBJLF::Experiencer-EmotionLF::Experiencer LF::ThemeFigure 1: Information in the TRIPS word sense def-inition for mapping between syntactic and semanticroles.
(Baker et al, 1998; Dzikovska et al, 2004), witheach LF type describing a particular situation, objector event and its participants.
Syntax-Semantics Tem-plates (or templates) capture the linking between thesyntax and semantics (LF type and semantic roles)of a word.
The semantic properties of an argumentare described by means of a semantic role assignedto it and selectional restrictions.2The TRIPS grammar contains a set of indepen-dently described lexical rules, such as the passive ordative shift rules, which are designed to create non-canonical lexical entries automatically, while pre-serving the linking properties defined in the canoni-cal entry.In this context adding an entry to the lexicon re-quires determining both the list of LF types andthe list of templates for canonical contexts, that is,the list of mappings between a logical frame and acanonical subcategorization frame.3 VERBNETVERBNET (Kipper et al, 2000) provides an actualimplementation of the descriptive work carried outby Levin (1993), which has been extended to coverprepositional constructions and corpus-based sub-categorization frames (Kipper et al, 2004; Kipperet al, 2006).VERBNET is a hierarchical verb lexicon in whichverbs are organised in classes.
The fundamentalassumption underlying the classification is that themembers of a given class share a similar syntactic2The selectional restrictions are domain independent andspecified using features derived from EuroWordNet (Vossen,1997; Dzikovska et al, to appear).26behaviour, that is, they pattern in the same set of al-ternations, and are further assumed to share commonsemantic properties.3VERBNET classes are organised in an inheritancehierarchy.
Each class includes a set of members(verbs), a set of (subcategorization) frames and a setof semantic descriptions.
Frames are descriptions ofthe linking between syntax and semantics for thatclass.
Each frame argument contains a syntactic cat-egory augmented with syntactic features, and a cor-responding thematic role.
Each class also specifiesa set of additional selectional restriction features.VERBNET further includes for each class a semanticdescription stated in terms of event semantics, thatwe ignore in this paper.4 MethodologyThe methodology used in the mapping process con-sists of two steps.
First we translate the source,VERBNET, to an intermediate representation bestsuited for parsing purposes.
Second this interme-diate representation is translated to a specific tar-get, here the TRIPS lexicon.
At this stage of ourwork, the translation from VERBNET to the inter-mediate representation mainly concerns normalisingsyntactic information coded in VERBNET to makethem easier to handle for parsing purposes, and thetranslation from the intermediate representation tothe TRIPS lexicon focuses on translating semanticinformation.
This architecture is best understoodas a cross compilation scheme: we further expectto reuse this intermediate representation for produc-ing outputs for different parsers and to accept inputsfrom other lexical databases such as FRAMENET.4.1 The intermediate representationThe intermediate representation is a lexical repre-sentation scheme mainly tailored for parsing: in thiscontext, a lexicon is thus made of a set of words,each of which consists of a lemma, a syntactic cate-gory and a list of sense definitions.
Each sense def-inition has a name and a frame.
The name of thesense definition is actually the name of the VERB-NET class it derives from.
The frame of the sensedefinition has a list of arguments, each of which con-3In practice, it turns out that there are exceptions to that hy-pothesis (Kipper, 2005).sists of a syntactic category, a syntactic function, athematic role and possibly a set of prepositions andsyntactic feature structures.The content of the intermediate representationuses the following data categories.
Syntactic cate-gories, thematic roles and features are those used inVERBNET.
We further add the syntactic functionsdescribed in (Carroll et al, 1998).
Specifically, twocategories left implicit in VERBNET by the use offeature structures are made explicit here: preposi-tional phrases (PP) and sentential arguments (S).Each argument described in a sense definitionframe is marked with respect to its coreness status.The coreness status aims to provide the lexicon withan operational account for common discrepanciesbetween syntax and semantics descriptions.
Thisstatus may be valued as core, non-core or non-semand reflects the status of the argument with respectto the syntax-semantics interface.Indeed, there is a methodological pitfall concern-ing the mapping between thematic roles and syntac-tic arguments: semantic arguments are not definedfollowing criteria identical to those for syntactic ar-guments.
The main criterion for describing semanticarguments is their participation in the event, situa-tion, object described by the frame whereas the cri-terion for describing syntactic arguments is based onthe obligatoriness or the specificity of the argumentwith respect to the verb.
The following example il-lustrates such conflicts:(1) a.
It is rainingb.
I am walking to the storeThe It in example (1a) plays no role in the seman-tic representation, but is obligatory in syntax sinceit fills a subject position.
The locative PP in exam-ple (1b) is traditionally not treated as an argumentin syntax, rather as a modifier, hence it does not filla complement position.
Such phrases are, however,classified in VERBNET as part of the frames.
Fol-lowing this, we distinguish three kinds of arguments:non-sem as in (1a) are syntactic-only arguments withno semantic contribution.
non-core as in (1b) con-tribute to the semantics but are not subcategorized.274.2 From VERBNET to the intermediaterepresentationGiven VERBNET as described in Section 3 and theintermediate representation we described above, thetranslation process requires mainly (1) to turn theclass based representation of VERBNET into a list-of-word based representation (2) to mark argumentsfor coreness (3) to merge some arguments and (4) toannotate arguments with syntactic functions.The first step is quite straightforward.
Everymember m of every VERBNET class C is associatedwith every frame of C yielding a new sense defini-tion in the intermediate representation for m.In the second step, each argument receives a core-ness mark.
Arguments marked as non-core are ad-verbs, and prepositional phrases introduced by alarge class of prepositions (e.g.
spatial preposi-tions).
The arguments marked as non-sem are thosewith an impersonal it, typically members of theweather class.
All other arguments listed in VERB-NET frames are marked as core.In the third step, syntactic arguments are mergedto correspond better to phrase-based syntax.4 Forexample, the VERBNET encoding of subcategoriza-tion frames splits prepositional frames on two slots:one for the preposition and one for the noun phrase.We have merged the two arguments, to become aPP, also merging their syntactic and semantic fea-tures.
Other merges at this stage include mergingpossessive arguments such as John?s brother whichare described with three argument slots in VERB-NET frames.
We merged them as a single NP.The last step in the translation is the inference ofsyntactic functions.
It is possible to reasonably infersyntactic functions from positional arguments andsyntactic categories by (a) considering the follow-ing oblicity order over the set of syntactic functionsused in the intermediate representation:5(2) NCSUBJ < DOBJ < OBJ2 < {IOBJ, XCOMP,CCOMP}4We also relabel some categories for convenience withoutaffecting the process.
For instance, VERBNET labels bothclausal arguments and noun phrases with the category NP.
Thedifference is made with syntactic features.
We take advantageof the features to relabel clausal arguments with the category S.5This order is partial, such that the 3 last functions are un-ordered wrt to each other.
These functions are the subset of thefunctions described in (Carroll et al, 1998) relevant for han-dling VERBNET data.and by (b) considering this problem as a transduc-tion problem over two tapes.
One tape being the tapeof syntactic categories and the second the tape ofsyntactic functions.
Given that, we designed a trans-ducer that implements a category to function map-ping.
It implements the above oblicity order togetherwith an additional mapping constraint: nouns canonly map to NCSUBJ, DOBJ, prepositional phrasescan only map to OBJ2, IOBJ, infinitival clauses canonly map to XCOMP and finite clauses to CCOMP.We further added refinements to account forframes that do not encode their arguments follow-ing the canonical oblicity order: for dealing withdative shift encoded in VERBNET with two differ-ent frames and for dealing with impersonal contexts,so that we eventually used the transducer in Figure2.
All states except 0 are meant to be final.
Thetransduction operates only on core and non-sem ar-guments, non-core arguments are systematically as-sociated with an adjunct function.
This transducer iscapable of correctly handling the majority of VERB-NET frames, finding a functional assignment formore than 99% of the instances.0 12NP:ncSubjNP:?
3PP: Dobj, IobjPP:IobjPP:IobjS[inf]: XcompS[fin]:CcompS[inf]: Dobj, XcompS[fin]: Dobj, CcompS[fin]:CcompS[inf]:Xcompit[+be]:SUBJNP: Iobj,Obj24?
:DobjAdj:AdjAdj:AdjAdj:AdjFigure 2: A transducer for assigning syntactic func-tions to ordered subcategorization frames4.3 From Intermediate representation to TRIPSRecall that a TRIPS lexical entry is comprised of anLF type with a set of semantic roles and a templaterepresenting the mappings from syntactic functionsto semantic roles.
Converting from our intermedi-ate representation to the TRIPS format involves twosteps:28?
For every word sense, determine the appropri-ate TRIPS LF type?
Establish the correspondence between VERB-NET and TRIPS syntactic and semantic argu-ments, and generate the appropriate mapping inthe TRIPS format.We investigated two strategies to align semanticclasses (VERBNET classes and TRIPS LFs).
Bothuse a class intersection algorithm as a basis for deci-sion: two semantic classes are considered a match ifthey are associated with the same lexical items.The intersection algorithm takes advantage of thefact that both VERBNET and TRIPS contain lexicalsets.
A lexical set for VERBNET is a class nameand the set of its members, for TRIPS it is an LFtype and the set of words that are associated with itin the lexicon.
Our intersection algorithm computesthe intersection between every VERBNET lexical setand every TRIPS lexical set.
The sets which intersectare then considered as candidate mappings from aVERBNET class to a TRIPS class.However, this technique produces many 1-wordclass intersections, and leads to spurious entries.
Weconsidered two ways of improving precision: firstby requiring a significantly large intersection, sec-ond by using syntactic structure as a filter.
We dis-cuss them in turn.4.4 Direct Mapping Between SemanticRepresentationsThe first technique which we tried for mappingbetween TRIPS and VERBNET semantic represen-tations is to map the classes directly.
We con-sider all candidate mappings between the TRIPSand VERBNET classes, and take the match with thelargest intersection.
We then align the semantic rolesbetween the two classes and produce all possiblesyntax-semantics mappings specified by VERBNET.This technique has the advantage of providing themost complete set of syntactic frames and syntax-semantics mappings which can be retrieved fromVERBNET.
However, since VERBNET lists manypossible subcategorization frames for every word,guessing the class incorrectly is very expensive, re-sulting in many spurious senses generated.
We use aclass intersection threshold to improve reliability.VERBNET ROLE TRIPS ROLESTheme LF::THEME, LF::ADDRESSEE,LF::ALONG, LF::ENTITYCause LF::CAUSE, LF::THEMEExperiencer LF::EXPERIENCER, LF::COGNIZERSource LF::FROM-LOC, LF::SOURCE,LF::PATHDestination LF::GOAL, LF::TO-LOCRecipient LF::RECIPIENT, LF::ADDRESSEE,LF::GOALInstrument LF::INSTRUMENTTable 1: Sample VERBNET to TRIPS role mappingsAt present, we count an LF type match as suc-cessfully guessed if there is an intersection in lex-ical entries above the threshold (we determined 3words as a best value by finding an optimal balanceof precision/recall figures over a small gold-standardmapping set).
Since the classes contain closely re-lated items, larger intersection means a more reliablemapping.
If the VERBNET class is not successfullymapped to an LF type then no TRIPS lexical entry isgenerated.Once the correspondence between the LF typeand the VERBNET class has been established, se-mantic arguments have to be aligned between thetwo classes.
We established a role mapping table(a sample is shown in Table 1), which is an extendedversion of the mapping from Swift (2005).
The rolemapping is one to many (each VERBNET role mapsto 1 to 8 TRIPS roles), however, since the appropriateLF type has been identified prior to argument map-ping, we usually have a unique mapping based onthe roles defined by the LF type.6Once the classes and semantic roles have beenaligned, the mapping of syntactic functions betweenthe intermediate representation and TRIPS syntaxis quite straightforward.
Functional and categorymappings are one to one and do not raise specificproblems.
Syntactic features are also translated intoTRIPS representation.To illustrate the results obtained by the automaticmapping process, two of the sense definitions gener-ated for the verb relish are shown in Figure 3.
TheTRIPS entries contain references to the class descrip-tion in the TRIPS LF ontology (line introduced by6In rare cases where more than 1 correspondence is possible,we are using the first value in the intersection as the default.29;; entries(relish(SENSES((EXAMPLE "The tourists admired the paintings")(LF-PARENT LF::EXPERIENCER-EMOTION)(TEMPL VN-EXPERIENCER-THEME-TEMPL-84))((EXAMPLE "The children liked that the clown had a red nose")(LF-PARENT LF::EXPERIENCER-EMOTION)(TEMPL VN-EXPERIENCER-THEME-XP-TEMPL-87))));;Templates(VN-EXPERIENCER-THEME-TEMPL-84(ARGUMENTS(LSUBJ (% NP) LF::EXPERIENCER)(LOBJ (% NP) LF::THEME)))(VN-EXPERIENCER-THEME-XP-TEMPL-87(ARGUMENTS(LSUBJ (% NP) LF::EXPERIENCER)(LCOMP (% CP (vform fin) (ctype s-finite)) LF::THEME)))Figure 3: Sample TRIPS generated entriesLF-PARENT) and to a template (line introduced byTEMPL) generated on the fly by our syntactic con-version algorithm.
The first sense definition andtemplate in Figure 3 represent the same informationshown graphically in Figure 1.
Each argument in atemplate is assigned a syntactic function, a featurestructure describing its syntactic properties, and amapping to a semantic role defined in the LF typedefinition (not depicted here).4.5 Filtering with syntactic structureThe approach described in the previous section pro-vides a fairly complete set of subcategorizationframes for each word, provided that the class corre-spondence has been established successfully.
How-ever, it misses classes with small intersections andclasses for which some but not all members match(see Section 5 for discussion).
To address these is-sues we tried another approach that automaticallygenerates all possible class matches between TRIPSand VERBNET, again using class member intersec-tion, but using the a TRIPS syntactic template as anadditional filter on the class match.
For each poten-tial match, a human evaluator is presented with thefollowing:{confidence score{verbs in TRIPS-VN class intersection}/LF-type TRIPS-template=> VN-class: {VN class members}}The confidence score is based on the number ofverbs in the intersection, weighted by taking into ac-count the number of verbs remaining in the respec-tive TRIPS and VERBNET classes.
The templateused for filtering is taken from all templates that oc-cur with the TRIPS words in this intersection (onematch per template is generated for inspection).
Forexample:93.271%{clutch,grip,clasp,hold,wield,grasp}/lf::body-manipulation agent-theme-xp-templ=> hold-15.1-1: {handle}This gives the evaluator additional syntactic in-formation to make the judgement on class intersec-tions.
The evaluator can reject entire class matches,or just individual verbs from the VERBNET classwhich don?t quite fit an otherwise good match.
Weonly used the templates already in TRIPS (those cor-responding to each of the word senses in the inter-section) to avoid overwhelming the evaluator with alarge number of possibly spurious template matchesresulting from an incorrect class match.
This tech-nique allows us to pick up class matches based on asingle member intersection, such as:7.814%{swallow}/lf::consume agent-theme-xp-templ=> gobble-39.3-2: {gulp,guzzle,quaff,swig}However, the entries obtained are not guaranteedto cover all frames in VERBNET because if a givenalternation is not already covered in TRIPS, it is notderived from VERBNET with this method.5 Evaluation and discussionSince our goal in this evaluation is to balance thecoverage of VERBNET with precision, we corre-spondingly evaluate along those two dimensions.For both techniques, we evaluate how many wordsenses were added, and the number of differentwords defined and VERBNET classes covered.
As ameasure of precision we use, for those entries whichwere retrieved, the percentage of those which couldbe taken ?as is?
(good entries) and the percentage ofentries which could be taken with minor edits (forexample, changing an LF type to a more specificsubclass, or changing a semantic role in a template).The results of evaluation are shown in Table 2.7Since for mapping with syntax filtering we con-sidered all possible TRIPS-VERBNET intersections,it in effect presents an upper bound the number ofwords shared between the two databases.
Further7?nocos?
table rows exclude the other cos VERBNET class,which is exceptionally broad and skews evaluation results.30Class mapping Mapping with syntax filteringType Total Good Edit Bad %usable Total Good Edit Bad %usableSense 3075 1000 196 1879 0.39 11036 1688 87 9261 0.16Word 744 274 98 372 0.5 2138 1211 153 714 0.64Class 15 10 1 4 0.73 198 129 2 67 0.66Sense-nocos 1136 654 196 286 0.75 7989 1493 87 6409 0.20Word-nocos 422 218 98 106 0.75 1763 1059 153 491 0.69Class-nocos 14 9 1 4 0.71 197 128 2 67 0.65Table 2: Evaluation results for different acquisition techniques.
%usable = (good + editable) / bad?.extension would require extending the TRIPS LFOntology with additional types to cover the miss-ing classes.
As can be seen from this table, 65%of VERBNET classes have an analogous class inTRIPS.
At the same time, there is a very large num-ber of class intersections possible, so if all possibleintersections are generated, only a very small per-centage of generated word senses (16%) is usable inthe combined system.
Thus developing techniquesto filter out the irrelevant senses and class matchesis important for successful hand-checking.Our evaluation also shows that while class inter-section with thresholding provides higher precision,it does not capture many words and verb senses.
Onereason for this is data sparsity.
TRIPS is relativelysmall, and both TRIPS and VERBNET contain anumber of 1-word classes, which cannot be reliablymapped without human intervention.
This problemcan be alleviated in part as the size of the databasegrows.
We expect this technique to have better recallwhen the combined lexicon is used to merge with adifferent lexical database such as FRAMENET.However, a more difficult issue to resolve is dif-ferences in class structure.
VERBNET was builtaround the theory of syntactic alternations, whileTRIPS used FRAMENET structure as a starting point,simplifying the role structure to make connectionto parsing more straightforward (Dzikovska et al,2004).
Therefore TRIPS does not require that allwords associated with the same LF type share syn-tactic behaviour, so there are a number of VERB-NET classes with members which have to be splitbetween different TRIPS classes based on additionalsemantic properties.
70% of all good matches in thefiltering technique were such partial matches.
Thissignificantly disadvantages the thresholding tech-nique, which provides the mappings on class level,not allowing for splitting word entries between theclasses.We believe that the best solution can be foundby combining these two techniques.
The thresh-olding technique could be used to establish reliableclass mappings, providing classes where many en-tries could be transferred ?as is?.
The mapping canthen be examined to determine incorrect class map-pings as well as the cases where classes should besplit based on individual words.
For those entriesjudged reliable in the first pass, the syntactic struc-ture can be transferred fully and quickly, while thesyntactic filtering technique, which requires moremanual checking, can be used to transfer other en-tries in the intersections where class mapping couldnot be established reliably.Establishing class and member correspondence isa general problem with merging any two semanticlexicons.
Similar issues have been noted in compar-ing FRAMENET and VERBNET (Baker and Ruppen-hofer, 2002).
A method recently proposed by Kwonand Hovy (2006) aligns words in different seman-tic lexicons to WordNet senses, and then aligns se-mantic roles based on those matches.
Since we aredesigning a lexicon for semantic interpretation, it isimportant for us that all words should be associatedwith frames in a shared hierarchy, to be used in fur-ther interpretation tasks.
We are considering usingthis alignment technique to further align semanticclasses, in order to produce a shared database for in-terpretation covering words from multiple sources.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a methodology for merg-ing lexicons including syntactic and lexical semantic31information.
We developed a model based on cross-compilation ideas to provide an intermediate repre-sentation which could be used to generate entriesfor different parsing formalisms.
Mapping semanticproperties is the most difficult part of the process,and we evaluated two different techniques for estab-lishing correspondence between classes and lexicalentries, using TRIPS and VERBNET lexicons as acase study.
We showed that a thresholding techniquehas a high precision, but low recall due to inconsis-tencies in semantic structure, and data sparsity.
Wecan increase recall by partitioning class intersectionsmore finely by filtering with syntactic structure.
Fur-ther refining the mapping technique, and using itto add mappings to other lexical databases such asFRAMENET is part of our ongoing work.AcknowledgementsWe thank Karin Kipper for providing us useful doc-umentation on the VERBNET feature system, andCharles Callaway for technical help with the finalversion.
This material is based on work supportedby grants from the Office of Naval Research un-der numbers N000140510048 and N000140510043,from NSF #IIS-0328811, DARPA #NBCHD030010via subcontract to SRI #03-000223 and NSF #E1A-0080124.ReferencesC.
F. Baker and J. Ruppenhofer.
2002.
Framenet?sframes vs. Levin?s verb classes.
In Proceedings of the28th Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Soci-ety, pages 27?38.C.
F. Baker, C. Fillmore, and J.
B. Lowe.
1998.
TheBerkeley Framenet project.
In Proceedings of CoLing-ACL, Montreal.J.
Carroll, E. Briscoe, and A. Sanfilippo.
1998.
Parserevaluation: A survey and a new proposal.
In Proceed-ings of LREC-98.A.
Copestake and D. Flickinger.
2000.
An opensource grammar development environment and broad-coverage English grammar using HPSG.
In Proceed-ings of LREC-2000, Athens, Greece.B.
Dorr.
1997.
Large-scale dictionary constructionfor foreign language tutoring and interlingual machinetranslation.
Machine Translation, 12(4):271?375.M.
O. Dzikovska, M. D. Swift, and J. F. Allen.
2004.Building a computational lexicon and ontology withFrameNet.
In Proceedings of LREC workshop onBuilding Lexical Resources from Semantically Anno-tated Corpora, Lisbon.M.
O. Dzikovska, M. D. Swift, and J. F. Allen.
to ap-pear.
Customizing meaning: Building domain-specificsemantic representations from a generic lexicon.
InH.
Bunt, editor, Computing Meaning, Volume 3, Stud-ies in Linguistics and Philosophy.
Kluwer.M.
O. Dzikovska.
2004.
A Practical Semantic Repre-sentation for Natural Language Parsing.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Rochester, Rochester NY.C.
Johnson and C. J. Fillmore.
2000.
The FrameNettagset for frame-semantic and syntactic coding ofpredicate-argument structure.
In Proceedings ANLP-NAACL 2000, Seattle, WA.K.
Kipper, H. T. Dang, and M. Palmer.
2000.
Class-based construction of a verb lexicon.
In Proceedingsof AAAI, Austin.K.
Kipper, B. Snyder, and M. Palmer.
2004.
Us-ing prepositions to extend a verb lexicon.
In Pro-ceedings of HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop on Compu-tational Lexical Semantics, pages 23?29, Boston, MA.K.
Kipper, A. Korhonen, N. Ryant, and M. Palmer.
2006.Extending Verbnet with novel verb classes.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC-2006.K.
Kipper.
2005.
Verbnet: A broad coverage, compre-hensive verb lexicon.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Penn-sylvania.N.
Kwon and E. H. Hovy.
2006.
Integrating semanticframes from multiple sources.
In A. F. Gelbukh, edi-tor, CICLing, volume 3878 of Lecture Notes in Com-puter Science, pages 1?12.
Springer.B.
Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alternations.The University of Chicago Press.S.
Narayanan and S. Harabagiu.
2004.
Question answer-ing based on semantic structures.
In Proceedings ofInternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics (COLING 2004), Geneva, Switzerland.M.
Swift.
2005.
Towards automatic verb acquisitionfrom Verbnet for spoken dialog processing.
In Pro-ceedings of Interdisciplinary Workshop on the Identi-fication and Representation of Verb Features and VerbClasses, Saarbruecken, Germany.J.
Tetreault.
2005.
Empirical Evaluations of PronounResolution.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Rochester.P.
Vossen.
1997.
Eurowordnet: A multilingual databasefor information retrieval.
In Proceedings of the Delosworkshop on Cross-language Information Retrieval.32
