Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 9?16,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsOntology-Based Natural Language Query Processing for the BiologicalDomainJisheng Liang, Thien Nguyen, Krzysztof Koperski, Giovanni MarchisioInsightful Corporation1700 Westlake Ave N., Suite 500, Seattle, WA, USA{jliang,thien,krisk,giovanni}@insightful.comAbstractThis paper describes a natural languagequery engine that enables users to searchfor entities, relationships, and events thatare extracted from biological literature.The query interpretation is guided by adomain ontology, which provides a map-ping between linguistic structures anddomain conceptual relations.
We focus onthe usability of the natural language inter-face to users who are used to keyword-based information retrieval.
Preliminaryevaluation of our approach using theGENIA corpus and ontology shows prom-ising results.1 IntroductionNew scientific research methods have greatly in-creased the volume of data available in the biologi-cal domain.
A growing challenge for researchersand health care professionals is how to access thisever-increasing quantity of information [Hersh2003].
The general public has even more troublefollowing current and potential applications.
Partof the difficulty lies in the high degree of speciali-zation of most resources.
There is thus an urgentneed for better access to current data and the vari-ous domains of expertise.
Key considerations forimproving information access include: 1) accessi-bility to different types of users; 2) high precision;3) ease of use; 4) transparent retrieval across het-erogeneous data sources; and 5) accommodation ofrapid language change in the domain.Natural language searching refers to approachesthat enable users to express queries in explicitphrases, sentences, or questions.
Current informa-tion retrieval engines typically return too manydocuments that a user has to go through.
Naturallanguage query allows users to express their in-formation need in a more precise way and retrievespecific results instead of ranked documents.
Italso benefits users who are not familiar with do-main terminology.With the increasing availability of textual informa-tion related to biology, including MEDLINE ab-stracts and full-text journal articles, the field ofbiomedical text mining is rapidly growing.
Theapplication of Natural Language Processing (NLP)techniques in the biological domain has been fo-cused on tagging entities, such as genes and pro-teins, and on detecting relations among thoseentities.
The main goal of applying these tech-niques is database curation.
There has been a lackof effort or success on improving search engineperformance using NLP and text mining results.
Inthis effort, we explore the feasibility of bridgingthe gap between text mining and search by?
Indexing entities and relationships ex-tracted from text,?
Developing search operators on entitiesand relationships, and?
Transforming natural language queries tothe entity-relationship search operators.The first two steps are performed using our exist-ing text analysis and search platform, called InFact[Liang 2005; Marchisio 2006].
This paper con-cerns mainly the step of NL query interpretationand translation.
The processes described above areall guided by a domain ontology, which provides aconceptual mapping between linguistic structuresand domain concepts/relations.
A major drawbackto existing NL query interfaces is that their linguis-tic and conceptual coverage is not clear to the user9[Androutsopoulos 1995].
Our approach addressesthis problem by pointing out which concepts orsyntactic relations are not mapped when we fail tofind a consistent interpretation.Figure 1 shows the query processing andretrieval process.There has been skepticism about the usefulness ofnatural language queries for searching on the webor in the enterprise.
Users usually prefer to enterthe minimum number of words instead of lengthygrammatically-correct questions.
We have devel-oped a prototype system to deal with queries suchas ?With what genes does AP-1 interact??
Thequeries do not have to be standard grammaticalquestions, but rather have forms such as: ?proteinsregulated by IL-2?
or ?IL-2 inhibitors?.
We applyour system to a corpus of molecular biology litera-ture, the GENIA corpus.
Preliminary experimentalresults and evaluation are reported.2 Overview of Our ApproachMolecular biology concerns interaction events be-tween proteins, drugs, and other molecules.
Theseevents include transcription, translation, dissocia-tion, etc.
In addition to basic events which focus oninteractions between molecules, users are also in-terested in relationships between basic events, e.g.the causality between two such events [Hirschman2002].
In order to produce a useful NL query tool,we must be able to correctly interpret and answertypical queries in the domain, e.g.:?
What genes does transcription factor Xregulate??
With what genes does gene G physicallyinteract??
What proteins interact with drug D??
What proteins affect the interaction of an-other protein with drug D?Figure 1 shows the process diagram of our system.The query interpretation process consists of twomajor steps: 1) Syntactic analysis ?
parsing anddecomposition of the input query; and 2) Semanticanalysis ?
mapping of syntactic structures to anintermediate conceptual representation.
The analy-sis uses an ontology to extract domain-specific en-tities/relations and to resolve linguistic ambiguityand variations.
Then, the extracted semantic ex-pression is transformed into an entity-relationshipquery language, which retrieves results from pre-indexed biological literature databases.Natural LanguageQueryParsing &Decomposition2.1 Incorporating Domain OntologyDomain ontologies explicitly specify the meaningof and relation between the fundamental conceptsin an application domain.
A concept represents aset or class of entities within a domain.
Relationsdescribe the interactions between concepts or aconcept's properties.
Relations also fall into twobroad categories: taxonomies that organize con-cepts into ?is-a?
and ?is-a-member-of?
hierarchy,and associative relationships [Stevens 2000].
Theassociative relationships represent, for example,the functions and processes a concept has or is in-volved in.
A domain ontology also specifies howknowledge is related to linguistic structures such asgrammars and lexicons.
Therefore, it can be usedby NLP to improve expressiveness and accuracy,and to resolve the ambiguity of NL queries.There are two major steps for incorporating a do-main ontology: 1) building/augmenting a lexiconfor entity tagging, including lexical patterns thatspecify how to recognize the concept in text; and2) specifying syntactic structure patterns for ex-tracting semantic relationships among concepts.The existing ontologies (e.g.
UMLS, Gene Ontol-ogy) are created mainly for the purpose of databaseEntity-RelationshipMarkup & IndexingSemantic AnalysisSyntactic StructureDomainOntologySemantic ExpressionTranslationEntity-RelationshipQueryTextCorpus10annotation and consolidation.
From those ontolo-gies, we could extract concepts and taxonomic re-lations, e.g., is-a.
However there is also a need forontologies that specify relevant associative rela-tions between concepts, e.g.
?Protein acetylate Pro-tein.?
In our experiment we investigate theproblem of augmenting an existing ontology (i.e.GENIA) with associative relations and other lin-guistic information required to guide the query in-terpretation process.2.2 Query Parsing and NormalizationOur NL parser performs the steps of tokenization,part-of-speech tagging, morphological processing,lexical analysis, and identification of phrase andgrammatical relations such as subjects and objects.The lexical analysis is based on a customizablelexicon and set of lexical patterns, providing theabilities to add words or phrases as dictionaryterms, to assign categories (e.g.
entity types), andto associate synonyms and related terms with dic-tionary items.
The output of our parser is a de-pendency tree, represented by a set of dependencyrelationships of the form (head, relation, modifier).In the next step, we perform syntactic decomposi-tion to collapse the dependency tree into subject-verb-object (SVO) expressions.
The SVO triplescan express most types of syntactic relations be-tween various entities within a sentence.
Anotheradvantage of this triple expression is that it be-comes easier to write explicit transformationalrules that encode specific linguistic variations.Figure 2 shows the subject-action-object triplet.Verb modifiers in the syntactic structure may in-clude prepositional attachment and adverbials.
Themodifiers add context to the event of the verb, in-cluding time, location, negation, etc.
Subject/objectmodifiers include appositive, nominative, genitive,prepositional, descriptive (adjective-noun modifi-cation), etc.
All these modifiers can be either con-sidered as descriptors (attributes) or reformulatedas triple expressions by assigning a type to the pair.Linguistic normalization is a process by which lin-guistic variants that contain the same semanticcontent are mapped onto the same representationalstructure.
It operates at the morphological, lexicaland syntactic levels.
Syntactic normalization in-volves transformational rules that recognize theequivalence of different structures, e.g.:?
Verb Phrase Normalization ?
eliminationof tense, modality and voice.?
Verbalization of noun phrases ?
e.g.
Inhi-bition of X by Y ?
Y inhibit X.For example, queries such as:Proteins activated by IL-2What proteins are activated by IL-2?What proteins does IL-2 activate?Find proteins that are activated by IL-2are all normalized into the relationship:IL-2 > activate > ProteinAs part of the syntactic analysis, we also need tocatch certain question-specific patterns or phrasesbased on their part-of-speech tags and grammaticalroles, e.g.
determiners like ?which?
or ?what?, andverbs like ?find?
or ?list?.2.3 Semantic AnalysisThe semantic analysis typically involves two steps:1) Identifying the semantic type of the entitysought by the question; and 2) Determining addi-tional constraints by identifying relations thatought to hold between a candidate answer entityand other entities or events mentioned in the query[Hirschman 2001].
The semantic analysis attemptsto map normalized syntactic structures to semanticentities/relations defined in the ontology.
When thesystem is not able to understand the question, thecause of failure will be explained to the user, e.g.unknown word or syntax, no relevant concepts inthe ontology, etc.
The output of semantic analysisis a set of relationship triplets, which can begrouped into four categories:Subject Action ObjectEvents, including interactions between entities andinter-event relations (nested events), e.g.Inhibition(?il-2?, ?erbb2?
)Inhibition(protein, Activation(DEX, IkappaB))Event Attributes, including attributes of an inter-action event, e.g.SubjectModifierActionModifierObjectModifier11Location(Inhibition(il-2, erbb2), ?blood cell?
)Entity Attributes, including attributes of a givenentity, e.g.Has-Location(?erbb2?, ?human?
)Entity Types, including taxonomic paths of agiven entity, e.g.Is-A(?erbb2?, ?Protein?
)A natural language query will be decomposed intoa list of inter-linked triplets.
A user?s specific in-formation request is noted as ?UNKNOWN.
?Starting with an ontology, we determine the map-ping from syntactic structures to semantic rela-tions.
Given our example ?IL-2 > activate >Protein?, we recognize ?IL-2?
as an entity, map theverb ?activate?
to a semantic relation ?Activation,?and detect the term ?protein?
as a designator of thesemantic type ?Protein.?
Therefore, we could eas-ily transform the query to the following triplets:?
Activation(IL-2, UNKNOWN)?
Is-A(UNKNOWN, Protein)Given a syntactic triplet of subject/verb/object orhead/relation/modifier, the ontology-driven seman-tic analysis performs the following steps:1.
Assign possible semantic types to the pairof terms,2.
Determine all possible semantic links be-tween each pair of assigned semantic typesdefined in the ontology,3.
Given the syntactic relation (i.e.
verb ormodifier-relation) between the two con-cepts, infer and validate plausible inter-concept semantic relationships from the setdetermined in Step 2,4.
Resolve linguistic ambiguity by rejectinginconsistent relations or semantic types.It is simpler and more robust to identify the querypattern using the extracted syntactic structure, inwhich linguistic variations have been normalizedinto a canonical form, rather than the original ques-tion or its full parse tree.2.4 Entity-Relationship Indexing andSearchIn this section, we describe the annotation, index-ing and search of text data.
In the off-line indexingmode, we annotate the text with ontological con-cepts and relationships.
We perform full linguisticanalysis on each document, which involves split-ting of text into sentences, sentence parsing, andthe same syntactic and semantic analysis as de-scribed in previous sections on query processing.This step recognizes names of proteins, drugs, andother biological entities mentioned in the texts.Then we apply a document-level discourse analysisprocedure to resolve entity-level coreference, suchas acronyms/aliases and pronoun anaphora.
Sen-tence-level syntactic structures (subject-verb-object triples) and semantic markups are stored in adatabase and indexed for efficient retrieval.In the on-line search mode, we provide a set ofentity-relationship (ER) search operators that allowusers to search on the indexed annotations.
Unlikekeyword search engines, we employ a highly ex-pressive query language that combines the powerof grammatical roles with the flexibility of Boo-lean operators, and allows users to search for ac-tions, entities, relationships, and events.
Werepresent the basic relationship between two enti-ties with an expression of the kind:Subject Entity > Action > Object EntityWe can optionally constrain this expression byspecifying modifiers or using Boolean logic.
Thearrows in the query refer to the directionality of theaction.
For example,Entity 1 <> Action <> Entity 2will retrieve all relationships involving Entity 1and Entity 2, regardless of their roles as subject orobject of the action.
An asterisk (*) can be used todenote unknown or unspecified sources or targets,e.g.
?Il-2 > inhibit > *?.In the ER query language we can represent andorganize entity types using taxonomy paths, e.g.
:[substance/compound/amino_acid/protein][source/natural/cell_type]The taxonomic paths can encode the ?is-a?
relation(as in the above examples), or any other relationsdefined in a particular ontology (e.g.
the ?part-of?relation).
When querying, we can use a taxonomypath to specify an entity type, e.g.
[Pro-tein/Molecule], [Source], and the entity type willautomatically include all subpaths in the taxonomic12hierarchy.
The complete list of ER query featuresthat we currently support is given in Table 1.ER Query Features Descriptions and ExamplesRelationships be-tween two entities orentity typesThe query ?il-2 <> * <> Ap1?will retrieve all relationshipsbetween the two entities.Events involvingone or more entitiesor typesThe query ?il-2 > regulate >[Protein]?
will return all in-stances of il-2 regulating aprotein.Events restricted to acertain action type -categories of actionsthat can be used tofilter or expandsearchThe query ?
[Protein] > [Inhi-bition] > [Protein]?
will re-trieve all events involving twoproteins that are in the natureof inhibition.Boolean Operators- AND, OR, NOTExample: Il-2 OR ?interleukin2?
> inhibit or suppress >*Phrases such as ?interleukin2?
can be included in quotes.Prepositional Con-straints- Filter results byinformation found ina prepositionalmodifier.Query Il-2 > activate > [pro-tein]^[cell_type]will only return results men-tioning a cell type locationwhere the activation occurs.Local context con-straints - Certainkeyword(s) mustappear near the rela-tionship (within onesentence).Example: LPS > induce > NF-kappaB CONTEXTCONTAINS ?human T cell?Document keywordconstraints - Docu-ments must containcertain keyword(s)Example: Alpha-lipoic acid >inhibit > activation DOCCONTAINS ?AIDS?
OR?HIV?Document metadataconstraintsRestrict results to documentsthat contain the specifiedmetadata values.Nested Search Allow users to search the re-sults of a given search.Negation Filtering Allow users to filter out ne-gated results that are detectedduring indexing.Table 1 lists various types of ER queries2.5 Translation to ER QueryWe extract answers through entity-relationalmatching between the NL query and syntac-tic/semantic annotations extracted from sentences.Given the query?s semantic expression as de-scribed in Section 2.3, we translate it to one ormore entity-relationship search operators.
The dif-ferent types of semantic triplets (i.e.
Event, Attrib-ute, and Type) are treated differently when beingconverted to ER queries.?
The Event relations can be converted di-rectly to the subject-action-object queries.?
The inter-event relations are represented aslocal context constraints.?
The Event Attributes are translated toprepositional constraints.?
The Entity Attribute relations could be ex-tracted either from same sentence or fromsomewhere else within document context,using the nested search feature.?
The Entity Type relations are specified inthe ontology taxonomy.For our example, ?proteins activated by il-2?, wetranslate it into an ER query: ?il-2 > [activation] >[protein]?.
Figure 3 shows the list of retrieved sub-ject-verb-object triples that match the query, whereeach triple is linked to a sentence in the corpus.3 Experiment ResultsWe tested our approach on the GENIA corpus andontology.
The evaluation presented in this sectionfocuses on the ability of the system to translate NLqueries into their normalized representation, andthe corresponding ER queries.3.1 Test DataThe GENIA corpus contains 2000 annotatedMEDLINE abstracts [Ohta 2002].
The main reasonwe chose this corpus is that we could extract thepre-annotated biological entities to populate a do-main lexicon, which is used by the NL parser.Therefore, we were able to ensure that the systemhad complete terminology coverage of the corpus.During indexing, we used the raw text data as inputby stripping out the annotation tags.The GENIA ontology has a complete taxonomy ofentities in molecular biology.
It is divided into sub-stance and source sub-hierarchies.
The substancesinclude sub-paths such as nucleic_acid/DNA andamino_acid/protein.
Sources are biological loca-tions where substances are found and their reac-tions take place.
They are also hierarchically sub-classified into organisms, body parts, tissues, cells13or cell types, etc.
Our adoption of the GENIA on-tology as a conceptual model for guiding queryinterpretation is described as follows.Entities - For gene and protein names, we addedsynonyms and variations extracted from the EntrezGene database (previously LocusLink).Interactions ?
The GENIA ontology does not con-tain associative relations.
By consulting a domainexpert, we identified a set of relations that are ofparticular interest in this domain.
Some examplesof relevant relations are: activate, bind, interact,regulate.
For each type of interaction, we created alist of corresponding action verbs.Entity Attributes - We identified two types ofentity attributes:1.
Location, e.g.
body_part, cell_type, etc.identified by path [genia/source]Figure 3 shows our natural language query interface.
The retrieved subject-verb-object relationshipsare displayed in a tabular format.
The lower screenshot shows the document display page when userclicks on the last result link <interleukin 2, activate, NF-kappa B>.
The sentence that contains theresult relationship is highlighted.2.
Subtype of proteins/genes, e.g.
enzymes,transcription factors, etc., identified bytypes like protein_family_or_group,DNA_family_or_groupEvent Attributes - Locations were the only eventattribute we supported in this experiment.Designators - We added a mapping between eachsemantic type and its natural language names.
Forexample, when a term such as "gene" or "nucleicacid" appears in a query, we map it to the taxo-nomic path: [Substance/compound/nucleic_acid]3.2 Evaluation14To demonstrate our ability to interpret and answerNL queries correctly, we selected a set of 50 natu-ral language questions in the molecular biologydomain.
The queries were collected by consulting adomain expert, with restrictions such as:1.
Focusing on queries concerning entitiesand interaction events between entities.2.
Limiting to taxonomic paths definedwithin the GENIA ontology, which doesnot contain important entities such asdrugs and diseases.For each target question, we first manually createdthe ground-truth entity-relationship model.
Then,we performed automatic question interpretationand answer retrieval using the developed softwareprototype.
The extracted semantic expressionswere verified and validated by comparison againstthe ground-truth.
Our system was able to correctlyinterpret al the 50 queries and retrieve answersfrom the GENIA corpus.
In the rest of this section,we describe a number of representative queries.Query on events:With what genes does ap-1 physically interact?Relations:Interaction(?ap-1?, UNKOWN)IS-A(UNKNOWN, ?Gene?
)ER Query:ap-1 <>[Interaction] <> [nucleic_acid]Queries on association:erbb2 and il-2what is the relation between erbb2 and il-2?Relations:Association(?erbb2?, ?il-2?
)ER Query:Erbb2 <>*<>il-2Query of noun phrases:Inhibitor of erbb2Relation:Inhibition(UNKNOWN, ?erbb2?
)ER Query:[substance] > [Inhibition] > erbb2Query on event location:In what cell types is il-2 activated?Relations:Activation (*, ?Il-2?
)Location (Activation(), [cell_type])ER Query:* > [Activation] > il-2 ^ [cell_type]Entity Attribute ConstraintsAn entity?s properties are often mentioned in aseparate place within the document.
We translatethese types of queries into DOC_LEVEL_AND ofmultiple ER queries.
This AND operator is cur-rently implemented using the feature of nestedsearch.
For example, given query:What enzymes does HIV-1 Tat suppress?we recognize the word "enzyme" is associated withthe path: [protein/protein_family_or_group], andwe consider it as an attribute constraint.Relations:Inhibition (?hiv-1 tat?, UNKNOWN)IS-A(UNKNOWN, ?Protein?
)HAS-ATTRIBUTE (UNKNOWN, ?enzyme?
)ER query:( hiv-1 tat > [Inhibition]> [protein] )DOC_LEVEL_AND( [protein] > be > enzyme )One of the answer sentences is displayed below:?Thus, our experiments demonstrate that the C-terminal region of HIV-1 Tat is required to sup-press Mn-SOD expression?while Mn-SOD is indicated as an enzyme in a dif-ferent sentence:??
Mn-dependent superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), a mitochondrial enzyme ?
?Inter-Event RelationsThe inter-event relations or nested event queries(CLAUSE_LEVEL_AND) are currently imple-mented using the ER query?s local context con-straints, i.e.
one event must appear within the localcontext of the other.Query on inter-event relations:What protein inhibits the induction of Ikappa-Balpha by DEX?Relations:Inhibition ([protein], Activation())Activation (?DEX?, ?IkappaBalpha?
)ER Query:( [protein] > [Inhibition] > * )CLAUSE_LEVEL_AND( DEX > [Activation] > IkappaBalpha )15One of the answer sentences is:?In both cell types, the cytokine that inhibits theinduction of IkappaBapha by DEX, also rescuesthese cells from DEX-induced apoptosis.
?4 DiscussionsWe demonstrated the feasibility of our approachusing the relatively small GENIA corpus and on-tology.
A key concern with knowledge or semanticbased methods is the scalability of the methods tolarger set of data and queries.
As future work, weplan to systematically measure the effectiveness ofthe approach based on large-scale experiments inan information retrieval setting, as we increase theknowledge and linguistic coverage of our system.We are able to address the large data size issue byusing InFact as an ingestion and deployment plat-form.
With a distributed architecture, InFact is ca-pable of ingesting large data sets (i.e.
millions ofMEDLINE abstracts) and hosting web-basedsearch services with a large number of users.
Wewill investigate the scalability to larger knowledgecoverage by adopting a more comprehensive on-tology (i.e.
UMLS [Bodenreider 2004]).
In addi-tion to genes and proteins, we will include otherentity types such as drugs, chemical compounds,diseases and phenotypes, molecular functions, andbiological processes, etc.
A main challenge will beincreasing the linguistic coverage of our system inan automatic or semi-automatic way.Another challenge is to encourage keyword searchusers to use the new NL query format and thesemi-structured ER query form.
We are investigat-ing a number of usability enhancements, where themajority of them have been implemented and arebeing tested.For each entity detected within a query, we providea hyperlink that takes the user to an ontologylookup page.
For example, if the user enters "pro-tein il-2", we let the user know that we recognize"protein" as a taxonomic path and "il-2" as an en-tity according to the ontology.
If a relationshiptriplet has any unspecified component, we providerecommendations (or tips) that are hyperlinks toexecutable ER queries.
This allows users who arenot familiar with the underlying ontology to navi-gate through most plausible results.
When the userenters a single entity of a particular type, we dis-play a list of relations the entity type is likely to beinvolved in, and a list of other entity types that areusually associated to the given type.
Similarly, wedefine a list of relations between each pair of entitytypes according to the ontology.
The relations areranked according to popularity.
When the user en-ters a query that involves two entities, we presentthe list of relevant relations to the user.Acknowledgements: This research was sup-ported in part by grant number 1 R43 LM008464-01 from the NIH.
The authors thank Dr. DavidHaynor for his advice on this work; the anonymousreviewers for their helpful comments; and YvonneLam for helping with the manuscript.ReferencesAndroutsopoulos I, Ritchie GD and Thanisch P. ?Natu-ral Language Interfaces to Databases ?
An Introduc-tion?, Journal of Natural Language Engineering, Vol1, pp.
29-81, 1995.Bodenreider O.
The Unified Medical Language System(UMLS): Integrating Biomedical Terminology.
Nu-cleic Acids Research, 2004.Hersh W and Bhupatiraju RT.
?TREC Genomics TrackOverview?, In Proc.
TREC, 2003, pp.
14-23.Hirschman L and Gaizauskas R. Natural LanguageQuestion Answering: The View from Here.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 2001.Hirschman L, Park JC, Tsujii J, Wong L and Wu CH.Accomplishments and Challenges in Literature DataMining for Biology.
Bioinformatics Review, Vol.
18,No.
12, 2002, pp.
1553-1561.Liang J, Koperski K, Nguyen T, and Marchisio G. Ex-tracting Statistical Data Frames from Text.
ACMSIGKDD Explorations, Volume 7, Issue 1, pp.
67 ?75, June 2005.Marchisio G, Dhillon D, Liang J, Tusk C, Koperski K,Nguyen T, White D, and Pochman L. A Case Studyin Natural Language Based Web Search.
To appearin Text Mining and Natural Language Processing.
AKao and SR Poteet (Editors).
Springer 2006.Ohta T, Tateisi Y, Mima H, and Tsujii J. GENIA Cor-pus: an Annotated Research Abstract Corpus in Mo-lecular Biology Domain.
In Proc.
HLT 2002.Stevens R, Goble CA, and Bechhofer S. Ontology-basedKnowledge Representation for Bioinformatics.
Brief-ings in Bioinformatics, November 2000.16
