An analysis of Wikipedia digital writingdott.
Antonella EliaDipartimento di Scienze Statistiche - Sezione LinguisticaFacolt?
di Scienze Politiche - Universit?
degli Studi di Napoli Federico IINapoli, Italyaelia@unina.itAbstractThis paper is a presentation of adoctoral research in progress focusedon a new genre: onlineencyclopaedias.
The  introduction toWikipedia and EncyclopaediaBritannica Online will be followed bya presentation of wiki as a new textualgenre.
Wikipedia analysis will focusfirstly on the investigation of the?WikiLanguage?, the language used inofficial encyclopaedic articles.Secondly, the ?WikiSpeak?, thespoken-written language used byWikipedians in their backstage andinformal community, will be takeninto account.
The initial findings ofthis research seem to suggest that, thelanguage of the Wikipedia?s co-authored articles is formal andstandardized in a way similar to thatfound in Encyclopaedia BritannicaOnline.
By contrast, the WikiSpeak, asa new variety of NetSpeak Jargon, canbe considered as a creative domain, anindependent and individual expressionof linguistic freedom of self-representation, characterizing the wikiComputer Mediated DiscourseCommunity.1.
IntroductionThe encyclopaedia's structure, either hierarchicalor alphabetically ordered, with its evolvingnature is particularly adaptable to a disk-basedor online format.
All major printedencyclopaedias have moved to this method ofdelivery.
Online E-ncyclopedias can includemultimedia (such as video, sound clips andanimated illustrations) unavailable in the printedformat.
They can make use of hypertext cross-references between conceptually related itemsand, furthermore, they offer the additionaladvantage of being dynamic: new and frequentlyupdated information can be presented almostimmediately, rather than waiting for the nextrelease of a static format (as with a paper or diskpublication).This research is based particularly on acontrastive linguistic analysis of Wikipedia andEncyclopaedia Britannica Online.
The latter isconsidered one of the greatest examples ofgeneral encyclopaedias in the English speakingworld.
It contains 120,000 articles which arecommonly considered accurate, reliable andwell-written.
Brief article summaries can beviewed for free on the net, while the full text isavailable only for individuals with monthly oryearly subscription.On the other hand, Wikipedia is acollaborative authoring project on the web, arepository of encyclopaedic knowledge, anexample of a collaborative hypermediumfocused on a common project.
It is one of themost popular reference websites receivingaround 50 million hits per day.
It is a social e-democracy environment, designed with the goalof creating a free encyclopedia containinginformation on all subjects writtencollaboratively by volunteers.
At the time ofwriting this paper the project has produced overtwo and half million articles and has beenofficially recognized as the largest internationalonline community.
It consists of 200independent language editions and the Englishversion is the biggest one with more than962,995 articles (up to January 2006).2.
Wiki as new textual genreWith reference to the extensive empiricalstudies of Susan Herring on CMC, wikis andblogs considered as spaces belonging to thesecond web generation, can be regarded asadding new peculiarities to the existingsynchronous and asynchronous tools of thefirst CMC generation (such as e-mail, mailinglist, forum and chat).
It is well known in mediastudies that ?the medium is the message?
asMcLuhan (1964) pointed out in the sixties, andin fact the  medium adds unique properties to16the web genre in terms of production, function,and reception which cannot be ignored.
Wikisare co-authoring tools which allow collectivecollaboration.
They can be, simultaneously, arepository of information and an asynchronoustool of communication and discussion acrossthe web (see Wikipedia).
All wikis haveintegrated search engines for locating contentand  are open to anyone since they areconsidered a public space, even though theycan be protected against unauthentic users.Their main aim is to create documents.Wikis, unlike traditionally designed web sites,encourage ?topical writing?
by using wiki linksand creating a wide network of interconnectedpages.
The interlinking process becomessimpler to type by just putting the word(s) insquare brackets.
It simultaneously creates anew topic title (a WikiWord), a new writingspace for that topic and a  link to that space.Once created, a topic will be availableanywhere on the wiki as whenever theWikiWord is typed, it will link to the writingspace of that topic  (Morgan, 2006).The writer, the supreme authority in print, isconsidered the one who transmits contentthrough paper pages, to passive readers, whoserole is merely to decode and interpret theirmessage.
The electronic writing space, beinghypertextual and extremely flexible, changesthe landscape.
Writers can create multiplestructures from the same topics (hierarchy,web, spiral, etc.)
and readers can enter, browseand leave text at many points.
In the hypertext,the author creates different paths for the reader,although there is neither a  canonical path nor adefined page order to follow.
The new activereaders making their choices, become co-authors of the hypertext (Bolter, 1991).
Thisidea is  more  pronounced on a wiki thanelsewhere, because in an open wiki   the readercan (if allowed) really interrupt the process, re-writing, changing, erasing and modifying theoriginal text or creating new topics.Traditional writing creates a gap betweenwriter and reader.
Wiki technology mediatesthe gap because the two actors assumeinterchangeable roles  in this new open e-environment.
To conclude, wiki text is neverstatic as it is considered revisable, a-temporalas nodes continually change through thecollaborative writing process, creating a neverending evolving network of topics.
Thus,knowledge becomes webbed, contextualizedthough it remains temporary as it can alwaysbe changed or vandalized.
Luckily, the originalversion can always, and easily, be recoveredby SysOps1,  through page histories2 (Morgan,2006).Wikis offer two different writing modes.
Thefirst one is known as ?document mode?.
Whenit is used, contributors create documentscollaboratively and can leave their additions toarticles.
Multiple authors can edit and updatethe content of documents which graduallybecome representations of contributors?
sharedknowledge (Leuf and Cunningham, 2001).Wikis have two states, ?Read?
and ?Edit?.
?Read state?
is by default.
In this case, wikipages look just like normal webpages.
Whenthe user wants to edit a page, he/she must onlyaccess the ?edit state?.
?Document mode?
is expository, extensive,monological, formal, refined and less creativethan ?thread mode?.
It is in third person andunsigned.
?Document mode?
demonstrates thatknowledge is collective and that the ideas, notthe writers, are the main focus.
Writerscontribute to ?document mode?
refactoring,reorganizing, incorporating and synthesizing?thread mode?
comments in encyclopaedicarticles and changing the first to third person(Morgan, 2006).The second wiki writing mode is ?threadmode?.
Contributors carry out discussions byposting signed messages in the discussion pageconnected to the main article.
Others reply tothe original message and so a group ofthreaded messages evolves (Morgan, 2006).
?Thread mode?
is dialogical, open,collective, dynamic and informal.
It developsorganically, without a predictive structure.
Itexpresses public thinking, presents multiplepositions and is exploratory.
Entries arephrased in first person and are signed.
Ratherthen replying to a discussion entry, the writercan refactor the page to incorporatesuggestions made, then delete the comment.
?Thread mode?
demonstrates that knowledgeis the result of  constructivist collaboration andnot a lonely production.1 SysOp is the abbreviation for "systems operator", and isa commonly used term for the administrator of a special-interest area of an online service.2 The page history of all versions of previous pages isavailable on Wikipedia.
It consists of  text, date , timeand  editing authors.173.
Research objectives and methodolology3.1.
Wikipedia vs BritannicaThe first objective of this research has beendirected towards the investigation of Wikipidiaarticles and on what has been defined, in thispaper as ?WikiLanguage?, the formal, neutraland impersonal language used in the officialencyclopedic articles.
In this phase, an analysisof  randomly selected sample articles has beencarried out.
The data for this research inprogress has been based on two corpora.
Up tonow, they include a collection of txt files madeup of one hundred articles representing topicstaken from the Wiki Folksonomy?s 3 eightcategories (culture, geography, history, life,mathematics, science, society, technology) andon a contrastive analysis of the same articlesfound in Encyclopaedia Britannica Online.The purpose of the quantitative research hasbeen the empirical measurement of somelinguistic features in order to define the degreeof formality in the WikiLanguage.
The samplearticles have been analyzed through theConcApp Concordancer Program.
Differentfactors have been taken into consideration inorder to define the formality of Britannica vsWikipedia.
The first aspect has been  articles?length (total words) as conciseness was foundto be a feature of formal written discourse(Chafe, 1982).
The second, average wordlength (in letters) as short words have beenconsidered a characteristic of informal genres(Biber, 1988).
A high level of lexical density(Halliday, 1985) has been found in formalacademic writing.
It has been considered themain stylistic difference between speech andwriting (Biber, 1988).Subsequently, the number of unique lexicalitems in the two corpora has been measured.With reference to the findings of Heylighenand Dewaele (1999), frequency of wordsuffixes typical in formal genres (such as -age,-ment, -ance/ence, -ion, -ity, -ism) andimpersonal pronouns (it/they) have beencalculated.
A contrastive frequency ofmeaningful keywords has also been3 Folksonomy is a neologism which indicates a practiceof collaborative categorization which makes use of freelychosen keywords.
Taxonomy derives from Greek ?taxis?and ?nomos?.
?Taxis?
means classification, ?nomos?
(ornomia) management and ?folk?
people; so folksonomymeans people?s classification management.investigated.
The informality of the languagehas been measured through the frequency ofabbreviations, acronyms, contractions (I'm,don't, he's, etc.)
and personal pronouns (I, we,you, he/she, they) which have been found to betypical of informal genres, such as face-to-faceand phone conversations (Biber, 1988).
Asshown in Appendix A (Fig.1), the first resultsof this research conducted on one hundredarticles have highlighted a number ofdifferences and similarities between Wikipediaand Britannica.Articles in Britannica have proven to beshorter than those in Wikipedia  (averagelength: 1728 vs 3510 words) and they haveshown a  higher lexical density (44.9% vs31.4%).
Although the level of total formality isclearly higher in Britannica (50.2% vs 36.6%),the frequency of formal nouns and impersonalpronouns typical of the formal discourse (5.3vs 5.2) and the average word length  (in letters5.4 vs 5.2) has proven to be very similar.
Thedivergent value is related to lexical density, butif text length varies widely (as happens in thetwo e-ncyclopedias) the  different lexical itemswill appear to be much higher in the shortesttext  as their relationship is not linear.
Eachadditional one hundred words of text addsfewer and fewer additional unique words(Biber, 1988).
Thus, an interpretation of thecollected data seems to suggest that thanks tothe collective editorial control, theWikiLanguage of the co-authored articlesshows a formal and standardized style similarto that found in Britannica.
A tablerepresenting a part of the collected data, andtheir graphical representation, has beenprovided in  Appendix A (Fig.
2,3,4).3.2 Web analysisParticular attention has been devoted toWikipedia digital style due to the importance ofthe interplay between genre and medium whendealing with web-mediated texts.
The layout ofsample articles has been investigated (table ofcontent, sections and sub-sections extension) aswell as multimodality (tables, graphs, images,audio recordings and videos) andhypertextuality [explicative (internalbookmarks), associative (wikilinks) andexplorative links (external weblinks)].
Atpresent Wikipedia does not  seem to fullyexploit the potential offered by multimodality(and Britannica even less), showing few audio18recordings and videos.
This is probably due tothe feature of Open Source software, keepingwith hackers?
simple and essential style (i.e.Slashdot and Everything2), to the contributors?average technical skills and to the philosophicalchoice which grants a privilege to informationand content over appearance.
One of theprominent properties of Wikipedia is its highlydense hypertextuality when compared toBritannica.
The analysis of the articles clearlyreveal  the  abundance  of Wikipedia?s nodesinterlinking and dynamism, made possible bywiki software and, by contrast, the isolation,linearity (page structure) and static nature ofcorresponding Britannica articles.
In this caseusing Finnemann?s  (1999) concept of ?modalshifts?
with reference ?to reading mode?
and?navigating mode?, it is evident that Wikipediaarticles actively stimulates the latter allowingthe reader to construct his/her own personalpathway, browsing inside and outside thewebsite.4.
WikiSpeakThe second phase of this research will focus onWikipedia as ?Computer Mediated DiscourseCommunity?
and on the language, defined inthis paper as ?WikiSpeak?, the languagespoken-written by Wikipedians in theirinformal backstage community.
The mediumhas developed its own wired style and specificglossary, which resembles in some aspects thehackers?
Jargon File.
The main WikiSpeakdistinctiveness lies in the lexicon used.WikiSpeak is an unofficial and high-contextlanguage which can be considered as a newvariety of the Netspeak, one of the mostcreative domains of contemporary English.
Itspeculiarity is immediately evident in the?wikilogisms?
found in the Community Portalhomepage (i.e.
stub, NPV, wikify, backlogs,FAQ, village pump, etc.)
which can beconsidered, for its lexical density, a supremesynthesis of WikiSpeak, as well as a politicalmanifesto as the wiki philosophical essenceand its informal community style are clearlydisclosed here4.The present investigation has started from itsanalysis in order to measure the impact of the4 In the Community Portal homepage, of 1604 wordsused, 809 are unique words.
The lexical density is veryhigh 50.4%.
The keywords are: help (19), you (16),article (16), collaboration (8), free (7).community front door (content, form,functionality) on the reader, and it will go onanalysing the WikiSpeak used in discussionpages connected to the selected articles.A large number of new words have emerged.WikiSpeak is an informal and colloquiallanguage rich, for example, in acronyms [i.e.NPOV (Neutral Point Of View), COTW(Collaboration Of The Week), IFD (Image ForDeletion), etc].
Plenty of abbreviations are alsofound.
They are individual words reduced totwo or three letters, [i.e.
pls (please), bb ppls(bye bye peoples), etc].
Some abbreviations arelike rebuses, as the sound value of the letter, ornumeral, acts as a syllable of a word [i.e.
B4N(bye for now), CYL (see you later), etc].
Wikiacronyms used in wiki CMC (discussionpages, mailing lists, IRC channels, instantmessaging and personal user pages) are notrestricted to words or short phrases, but can besentence-length [i.e.
WDYS (what did yousay?
), CIO (check it out), etc].Many word processes take place inWikiSpeak, including several ludicinnovations.
A popular method of creatingwikilogisms is to combine two separate wordsto make new compound words.
Some elementsturn up repeatedly, i.e.
Wiki (WikiPage,WikiBooks, WikiLink, WikiStress, etc.)5.
Inaddition, WikiSpeak makes large use of blends(namespace, infobox, quickpoll, etc.)
andsemantic shifts [i.e.
orphan, mirror, stub, etc]shown in the wiki glossary available for thenewbies.Distinctive graphology is also an importantfeature of WikiSpeak.
All orthographicfeatures have been affected.
For example, thestatus of capitalization varies greatly.
There isa strong tendency to use lowercase everywhereon the net.
The lower-case default mentalitymeans that any use of capitalization is amarked form of communication.
Messageswholly in capitals are considered to beshouting and usually avoided.
A distinctivefeature of Wiki graphology is the way twocapitals are used: one initial, one medial.This phenomenon is called BiCapitalization(BiCaps or CamelCase6) and is widespread in5 In Wikipedia veterans avoid their use as it is consideredclich?.
However it is tolerated when  it refers to technicalterms (i.e.
wikilinks).6 CamelCase is the practice of writing  compound wordsor phrases where the words are joined without spaces,and each word is capitalized within the compound.
The19Wiki community (i.e.
MediaWiki, WikiProject,etc.).
It is a very interesting example of how aprogramming language influences the wiredstyle, as BiCaps were used in hackers?communities as a word joiner alternative to theunderscore based style and, in the original wikiconvention to create links before the inventionof [[ _ ]] square brackets.
Now it has becomefashionable in marketing for names of productsand companies.
Outside these contexts,however, BiCaps are rarely used in formalwritten English, and most style guidesrecommend against it.Spelling practice is also a WikiSpeakdistinctive character.
New spelling conventionshave emerged, such as the replacement ofplural ?s by ?z.
Emotional expressions makeuse of a varying number of vowels andconsonants (yayyyyyyy) and repeatedpunctuation (WHAT????
), but punctuationsometimes tends to be minimalist orcompletely absent, a great deal depends on theuser?s personality: some Wikipedians arescrupulous about maintaining a traditionalpunctuation while some do not use it at all.
Onthe other hand, there is an increased use ofsymbols not normally part of the traditionalpunctuation system, such as # , or repeateddots (?
), hyphens (---), repeated use ofcommas (,,,) or asterisks (***).
WikiSpeak, asa new variety of the NetSpeak Jargon, can beconsidered as a creative domain, anindependent and individual expression of thelinguistic freedom of self-representation in thewiki community of practice.This research will make use of textuallinguistics and corpus linguistics for theinvestigation of the interactions expressed inthe unofficial and informal Wiki CMC.5.
ConclusionsIn conclusion, this research project has twomain focuses: defining the Wikipedia languagevariations within a dual context of use: officialencyclopaedic entries (WikiLanguage) vsbackstage community Speak (WikiSpeak).Wikipedia, as a new expression for theencyclopedic genre, appears very similar totraditional printed encyclopedias due to itsstylistic homogeneity, expressed Neutral Pointname comes from the uppercase "bumps" in the middle ofthe compound word, suggesting the humps of a camel.of View7 and formal style.
The first findings ofthis research in progress seem to demonstratehow Wikipedia succeeds   in reproducing anextant traditional genre even if applied to acollaborative and constructivist scenario.According to Shephered and Watters (1998),extant subgenres are based on already existinggenres in other media forms which have beenconverted into  digital form (i.e.
newspaperinto electronic news); on the contrary, novelsubgenres are entirely dependent on the newmedium (i.e.
homepages, search engines,webgames, etc.).
They stated that when anextant genre migrates to a digital environment,it will initially be faithfully replicated: contentand form will be preserved and the capabilitiesof the new medium will not be fully exploited(see Britannica).
At a later stage in theevolution, variant genres are created.
Thisprocess is driven by the technical capabilitiesof the new medium.
It is the point of view ofthis study that Wikipedia  can be taken as anexample of the evolution of an extanttraditional genre (encyclopedias) which hasbeen officially  preserved in the articles?superficial form, but not in the writing andreading processes (social editing,intertextuality, high informativeness andbrowsing mechanisms).
The articles?
textualform seems to suggest that when collaborativeusers have to respect stylistic establishednorms (see Wiki Manual of Style8) and sharedsocial working ethics (see Wikiquette9),diversity and controversy are erased and theofficial requested style is respected within theopen editing system.
Nevertheless,technological advantages offered bycollaborative software, reinforce the variety,the quick updating and interconnection of theinformation provided by the contributors?multitude.
Their voices, even if individually,originally and democratically expressed in theCMC wiki community, are merged andhomogenized in the articles?
neutrality andformality.7 A Neutral Point Of View (NPOV) is writing free frombias.
It is generally considered desirable for journalisticand encyclopedic writings.
According to the Wikipedia?sfounder, Jimbo Wales, NPOV is an "absolute and non-negotiable" principle in Wiki Manual of Style.8 Manual of Style is a style guide for Wikipedia?scontributors.
It has the purpose of making the editingeasier by following a consistent format.9 Principles of Wikiquette are the guidelines on how towork with others on Wikipedia.20Linguistic analysis cannot be separated fromthe investigation of the main philosophical andpolitical goals of Wikipedia whose main aim isto pursue freedom of content and informationexpressed through the Wikipedian ?Collective?
(L?vy, 1994) and ?Connective?
Intelligence(de Kerckove, 1997) in this new acentricrhizomatic environment10 (Deleuze-Guattari,1980).
Encyclopaedia Britannica is aknowledge compendium without any politicalmeaning hosted by a commercial website(.com).
In the 18th century, the original French?Encyclop?die?
from Diderot and D?Alambertwas mainly a political project designed topropagate the ideas of Enlightenment and toestablish the reign of reason in Europe(Soufron, 2004).
Similarly, Wikipedia in thecurrent I.C.T.
age, can be considered as a post-modern Encyclopaedia, a copyleft referencework with a non-profit cultural goal (.org)affording a political project rather than merelya scientific one.
It is aimed at changing thesociety of the 21st century by giving controlover content to everyone and thus enhancingfreedom of expression and recovering theoriginal aim of the World Wide Web inventor:Sir Tim Berners Lee wanted the web to be aboundless library of Babel and not a globalsupermarket as it has become in the dot.comera.ReferencesBiber Douglas.
1988.
Variation across speech andwriting.
Cambridge University Press.
Cambridge, UK.Bolter Jay David.
1991, Writing Space: Computers,Hypertext, and the Remediation of Print, LawrenceErlbaum Associates, N.Y., USAChafe Wallace L. 1982.
?Integration and involvement inspeaking, writing, and oral literature?
in D. Tannen (Ed.
),Spoken and Written Language: Exploring Orality andLiteracy (pp.
35-53).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.Crystal David.
2001.
Language and the Internet,Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.Crystal  David 2004.
The Cambridge Encyclopedia ofEnglish Language, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.10 In A Thousand Plateaus: Capitalism andSchizophrenia, Deleuze and Guattari state that a rhizomeis any structure in which each point is necessarilyconnected to each other point, where no location maybecome a beginning or an end, so the whole isheterogeneous.
Deleuze labels the rhizome as a?multiplicity?
resistant to structures of domination.De Kerkhove Derrick.
1997.
Connected Intelligence, theArrival of the Web Society, Somerville House Toronto,Canada.Deleuze Gilles and Guattari Felix.
1980. tr.
Eng., 1987, AThousand Plateaus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia,University of Minnesota Press Minneapolis, USA.Emigh William, Herring Susan.
2005.
CollaborativeAuthoring on the Web: A Genre Analysis of OnlineEncyclopedias.
Proceedings of the Thirty-EighthHawai'i., International Conference on System Sciences(HICSS-38), IEEE Press, Los Alamitos, USA.Encyclopaedia Britannica Onlinehttp://www.britannica.comFinnemann Niels Ole.
1999 Hypertext andtheRepresentational Capacities of the Binary Alphabethttp://www.hum.au.dk/ckulturf/pages/publications/nof/hypertext.htmHerring Susan.
1996.
Computer MediatedCommunication, linguistic, social and cross-culturalperspectives, John Benjamins Publishing Company.Amsterdam, Philadelphia.Heylighen Francis and Dewaele JM.
1999.
Formality oflanguage: Definition, measurement and behavioraldeterminants.
Internal Report, Center "Leo Apostel", FreeUniversity of Brussels, Belgium .Leuf Bo and Cunningham Ward.
2001.
The Wiki Way:Quick Collaboration on the Web, Addison-Wesley, NewYork, USA.L?vy Pierre.
1994.
L'intelligence Collective.
Pour uneantropologie du cyberspace, La D?couverte, Paris,France.McLuhan Marshall.
1964.
"The Medium is the Message"in Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man, Signet,New York, USA.Morgan M.C.
BlogsandWikishttp://biro.bemidjistate.edu/~morgan/wiki/wiki.phShepherd Michael, Watters Carolyn.
1998.
The evolutionof cybergenres in International Conference on SystemSciences (HICSS-31).
Hawai?i, vol.
II, p. 97-109 cit.
in?Literature Genre & Cybergenre?.Soufron Jean Baptiste.
2004.
The political importance ofthe Wikipedia project: Wikipedia toward a new electronicenlightment era?
http://soufron.free.frSwales John M. 1990.
Genre Analysis.
English inAcademic and Research Setting, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, UK.Wikipediahttp://www.wikipedia.org21APPENDIX AFigure 1.
Linguistic formality: Britannica vs Wikipedia22Figure 2.
Lexical densityFigure 3.
Total formality in percentageFigure 4.
Articles?
length in words23
