Constructing a Rule Based Naming System for Thai Names Using theConcept of OntologiesChakkrit SnaeDepartment of Computer ScienceNaresuan UniversityPhitsanulok, Thailandchakkrits@nu.ac.thAbstractNames are important in many societies,even in technologically oriented oneswhich use ID systems or other ways toidentify individual people.
Names suchas personal surnames are the most im-portant as they are used in many proc-esses, such as identifying of people, re-cord linkage and for genealogical re-search as well.
For Thai names thissituation is a bit different in that in Thaithe first names are most important.Even phone books and directories aresorted according to the first names.Here we present a system for construct-ing Thai names from basic syllables.Typically Thai names convey a mean-ing.
For this we use an ontology ofnames to capture the meaning of thevariants which are based on the Thainaming methodology and rules.1 IntroductionNames are used for identifying persons, places,things and even ideas or concepts.
Names servefor labelling of categories or classes and for indi-vidual items.
They are properties of individualswhich are of greater importance in most commu-nities.
In technological oriented societies such asmodern Western the reference between names asa label and the person is not as obvious as insmall tribal societies.
This is especially truewhere names are stored within large informationsystems.
This includes government, medical,educational and even commercial records whichare kept about individuals.
Names are the mostimportant referrer to a person even if there arenumbering systems like ID numbers becausesuch systems are not universal.
Names are oftenqueried in a different way than they were en-tered.
Names represent complex lexical struc-tures which have to be handled systematically fordata entry, storage and retrieval in order to getsufficient recall or precision the retrieval processin.In this paper we present a first account of ourfindings on constructing Thai names with thehelp of an ontology of names as well as a work-ing methodology for the naming process in Thaiculture.This paper is organized as follows: Section 2contains a description of names and their ele-ments.
In Section 3 we outline the concept ofontology of names.
In Section 4 we present theconstruction process and system for Thai names.We apply this system together with an ontologyto construct names with an appropriate meaning.Section 5 shows the conclusions of our study andfurther work which has to be performed.2 What is a Name?Names for individuals are often called propernames, for humans sometimes also an-throponyms.
Names for places are calledtoponyms, for bodies of water hydronyms, forethnic groups ethnonyms, for metaphors meto-nyms and so on.
Names are more than juststrings of characters.
Names show important in-formation such as titles, gender, marital status,and even birthplace.
For this names provide dif-ferent elements (Section 2.2), which may differbetween cultures.862.1 Naming for Identity and SecurityFrom the technical point of view we want to linkand match as many names as possible with thecorrect individuals.
If we deal with individuals ofthe same name, e.g.
John Smith, we have to es-tablish a second identifier at least.
This can be ?and is in many cases ?
a temporal element, likethe date of birth, which is an individual and un-changing property of the person.
Another way tocircumvent the problem is to establish numberingsystems, like ID numbers.
Systems of numbersor other ciphers can be generated within individ-ual organisations.
It is not likely that the result-ing ID numbers will be the same in different or-ganisations.
The numbering may have limitationsas well, e.g.
the individual health care setting(e.g.
within a hospital or district) or, in principle,more widely (e.g.
the National Health Servicenumber).
In the past, the National Health Servicenumber in England and Wales had serious limita-tions as a matching variable, and it was notwidely used on health-care records.
With the al-location of the new ten-digit number throughoutthe NHS all this has been changed (Gill, 1997).Although numbering systems are simple toimplement they can lead to different errors inrecording, transcripting, and keying.
So we haveto take into account methods which reduce theseerrors and facilitate good quality of data entryand retrieval.
One such method uses a checkingdevice such as check-digits (Wild, 1968, Ham-ming, 1986).
When we are not able to use uniquenumbers or ciphers, natural matching variablesare the person's name, date of birth, sex and per-haps other supplementary variables such as theaddress with postal code and place of birth,which are used in combination for matching.
Re-cently, it has been suggested that this simplecode could be extended for security criticalplaces (e.g.
airports, checkpoints etc.)
with bio-metric marker information extracted from personidentifier information e.g.
finger-prints/iridograms.2.2 Elements of Personal NamesThe following table shows typical elements ofpersonal names together with potential variationsand sources of choices, e.g.
dictionary of givennames.Figure 1: The elements of names3 Ontology of Names?The term ontology has been widely used in re-cent years in the field of Artificial Intelligence,computer and information science especially indomains such as, cooperative information sys-tems, intelligent information integration, infor-mation retrieval and extraction, knowledge rep-resentation, and database management systems(Guarino, 1998, Andrade and Saltz, 1999, 2000).Many different definitions of the term are pro-posed.
One of the most widely quoted and well-known definition of ontology is Gruber's (Gru-ber, 1993): An ontology is an explicit specifica-tion of a conceptualization.The term is borrowed from philosophy, wherean ontology is a systematic account of existence.Here in this paper we adopt the following defini-tion: Ontology is the study or concern about whatkinds of things exist - what entities or things arethere in the universe (Blackburn, 1996).
Ourwork on ontologies will comprise: a terminologi-cal component where we lay down the conceptsand an assertional component (or KnowledgeBase) which contains the individual instances(entities).
The level of description will be tax-onomies with hierarchically related terms andcontrolled vocabularies (thesaurus) with the helpof semantic networks.An ontology of names can be worked out inmany different forms, but every ontology willinclude a dictionary, some definition of the terms87(semantics), and indications how they depend oneach other, e.g.
in hierarchies and semantic net-works.
For example, an ontology of names canbe defined as what kinds of names exist, e.g.
firstname, surname, nickname, etc (Section 2.2).
Thistypically comprises definitions of differentnames, the elements of names and their struc-tures.
In this section we show how an ontologyof names can be captured and defined.An ontology can also be used to establish thenetwork of synonyms, e.g.
using spelling normsto determine whether two names are thesame/similar or not.
For example, two names:Totie and Totiey can be defined based on as-sumption that they are the same as Totty.
Thisattempts to tackle the seemingly irreducible con-ventions of surname.
In compositional semanticslet us consider the name ?Gutensohn?.
This namewill be used to illustrate the various semanticconsiderations in German naming.
The name is acomposition of the two strings Godith and Sohn,which have unambiguous, meaningful interpreta-tions.
The interpretation of Godith is god or goodbattle and Sohn is interpreted as a male child inrelation to his parent.
The composition Gutsohn,Gudzon, or in other cultures: Guditson, Godye-son and Godithson and Godison (Reaney andWilson 1997).We incorporate the different elements of per-sonal names (Figure 1) into a semantic network(Figure 2) to illustrate how they associate witheach other, e.g.
with hierarchies.Figure 2: Representation of the names elements using semantic nets88Identifying and searching result in a list manynames with variations and meanings.
In orderto find the correct person with a name we haveto adopt ontologies of names, e.g.
based onplace of birth or relationship of people.
Thetypical origins of surnames which can be a ba-sis for ontologies of names can be classified asfollows:local surnames - surnames of relationship -surnames of occupation or office.Local surnames, which are most widelyused, stem from toponyms, we can call themtoponymic.
They reflect land owners, place ofbirth, or the center of life.
For example, Rich-ard de Tonebridge was named after his castleof Tonbridge, but he was also called Richardde Clara from the Suffolk Clare, which becamehis chief seat and the family?s definitive sur-name.
Also Richard de Hadestoke, a Londonalderman, had left Hadstock (Essex) and set-tled in London (Reaney and Wilson 1997).These local surnames derive (with occasionalexceptions) from English, Scottish or Frenchplaces (e.g.
de, at, in).
Toponymic Thai namesare derived from Thai places and took origi-nally a preposition na, for example, Prapas naRanong is a person from a Southern provincein Thailand called Ranong.Surnames which come from family relationare often called patronymic, but we have tointroduce a more elaborate term, because weencounter names from females and other rela-tions than just father, such as Gilbert Fatheved-steppeson, Richard Hannebrothir, AmericaIbbotdoghter, and John Prestebruther.Surnames of occupation and office refer toactual office holders like clergy names or stateoffices.
Some of these, such as steward, con-stable, marshal, etc., became hereditary andgave rise to hereditary surnames, but the termswere also commonly used of lesser offices,whilst marshal was a common term for a far-rier and such names frequently denoted theactual occupation.
However, Nuns, Abbots,Priors, Monks and other clerical people werebound by vows of celibacy and thus did usu-ally not have families which adopted their re-spective surname.4 Rule Based Naming System forThai NamesIn this section we introduce the well knownmethodology for Thai naming process as wellas how Thai names can be constructed usingthe basic Thai rules of forming syllables.4.1 Custom Naming Process Using ThaiAstrologyThe way of naming can vary, e.g.
naming bymonks, grandparents.
Since former timesnames are very important to people.
Namingfrom the past to the present has been continu-ously developed and has developed a variety ofpatterns.
Each pattern has it own rules depend-ing on local places and the belief that has beendeveloped until the present.
The basic goal ofnaming is to provide a good fortune and pro-gress during life.
Most first names have ameaning.
The widely used methodology ofThai naming process is briefly described in thefollowing.Principal naming using Thai astrology iswidely used since the past.
Because it uses thebirth day to form the name.
This is a belief thatthe individual has a set of 8 attributes calledname of the angles referred to in Thai astrol-ogy.
These attributes influence each person?slivelihood, fortune, etc.
The attributes refer toServant >Age> Power> Honour> Property>Diligence> Patron> Misfortune.
Each attributehas it own letters which can be used for con-structing names.4.2 Syllable ConstructionSyllables are aggregated to names which soundgood or aimed at good fortune according to themethodology mentioned above.
As a consonantcan not stand alone in Thai language and per-sonal names we consider rules for vowels only.The order is:Vowels can come first or can be followedby a first consonant, e.g.
EkVowels can follow a first consonant with-out a final consonant, e.g.
KaVowels that can not have final consonant,e.g.
Tam, TuaVowels that need final consonant, e.g.
KakFigure 3: Forming of Thai syllables89Example of construction of Thai syllablesusing Thai Romanization 1.10 unicode (CU2004) according to Figure 3: ??
(Ka)    = CV,???
(Ek)    = VC, ??
(Kok) = CF, ???
(Kak) =CVF, ???
(Ek) = VF.Thai names are built from one or more syl-lables that may or may not have a meaning.There are syllables which alone do not meanmuch in particular, but when used as prefixesand suffixes can change the meaning of thesyllables they precede  or follow as stated be-low.Prefixes: for example, (1) kob means"gather" while pra-kob means "put together" or"consist of", (2) cham means "remember"while pra-cham means "regularly".Suffixes: for example, (1) ngarm means"beautiful" and num means "water".
Add jai("heart") to each and we have names likengarm-jai and num-jai meaning "beautiful inthe heart" and "generous" respectively.In the following it is shown how to con-struct Thai names that convey a meaning withthe help of ontologies.
Syllables are built fromconsonants (either C or F, C being the first andF the final consonant) and vowels.
A nameconsists of one or more syllables.
One syllablecan have a meaning of its own, which leads incase of two or more syllables in a name tomore complex meanings.The process of constructing names accord-ing to the naming rules and methodology be-gins with a leading consonant or vowel thatcan be the only letter in the name.
If we con-tinue to add more letters we come either to avalid name (a name which has a meaning) or toan invalid name (a name without a meaning).Invalid names will be discarded in such a waythat the last letter will be replaced by anotheror will be added with more letters.Figure 4: Representation and constructionof Thai namesIn Figure 4 it is shown that names comprisen syllables with a reasonable number of letters.The meanings of the syllables as well as of thename are found with the help of an ontology ofnames.The meaning of the name for a girl Pensriin the example (see Figure 4) is ?the goodnessand beauty of the moon?.How do we know which name belongs to aboy or a girl?
There are several ideas to takeinto consideration when selecting a name forindicating the gender.
Ontologies can help indeciding the name by capturing and indexingthe meaning as is shown in Table 1.Boys can be named by:x taking names of leading or importantmale characters accepted as havinglasting literary value, e.g.
Chakkri (anactor from KhunChang KhunPhaen)and Suthat (an actor from Phra AphaiMani).x combining monosyllables evidentlyindicating the males sex, e.g.
Chatri (amighty man), Choetchai (a perfectman), and Danai (son).x using adjectives indicating male quali-ties such as strength, and bravery, e.g.Watcharaphon (strength), woraphon(strength), and Kriangkrai (brevery) .x using terms representing somethingstrong, important or high, e.g.
Suriya,Phassakorn, and Phanuphong arepopular names.
They all mean the sun.Choosing names for girls is even more compli-cated.
There are so many things to consider(Table 2).
A girl can be named by:x taking name of leading female charac-ters from well-known literature: PhimPhi La Lai (an actress from Khun-Chang KhunPhaen) and Suwanmali(an actress from Phra Aphai Mani).x combining monosyllables evidentlyindicating the females sex, e.g.
Cha-runi (pretty girl), Kanyarat (prettywoman), Khanitda (younger sister),andKhwansuda (beloved daughter).x using syllables indicating female quali-ties such as those having to do withlooks and beauty, e.g.
Pariyaphat(lovely) and Phichittra (beautiful).90x using syllables which are names offlowers, flowering trees: Manlika (jas-mine), Maliwan (jasmine), and Wat-sana (Charisma), all of which arenames of flowers found in Thailand;also syllables which simply meanflower: Buppha, Phakamat, Butsabong,and Ladawan.x using syllables describing softness,gentleness and mildness, e.g.
Pranit(gentle), Lamun (soft), and Sukhum(mild).x using syllables describing scent, taste,e.g.
Saowakhon (lovely smell, fra-grant) and Parimon (fragrant),Mathurot (sweet) and Wasita (sweetand aromatic).
On the other hand, un-favourable tastes like Khom (bitter) orFad (sappy) are not used.x using syllables which are names of or-naments and jewellery, e.g.
PhatcharaWalai (diamond bracelet), RattanaWali (gem necklace), Phara (dia-mond), and Rachawadi (blue gems).Table 1 Examples of Thai names with their meanings according to male gender.91Table 2 Examples of Thai names with their meanings and female gender.This grouping process is used to build an ontol-ogy which has a (classified) database structure.This allows for speeding up the information re-trieval process for the naming system.4.3 Web Based Naming Expert SystemCurrently we are constructing and implementinga web-based naming expert system which offerstwo basic ways to come to ?good?
Thai namesaccording to the first methodology mentionedabove.
The system will give us the letters foreach date of birth.
We use these letters to con-struct names based on the basic rules (see Figure2).
The user will be able to choose from a list ofresulting possible names according to their re-spective meaning.We use a dictionary database of more than8.000 Thai names which contains not only thespelling, but also the meaning and correct pro-92nunciation.
In situations where names follow therules but do not have a meaning we compare thename with similar names in a dictionary databaseand check for similarity using a simple stringmatching scheme.
Then the user can select thebest name from the resulting list of names.A second way to come to names is by usingontologies instead of basic spelling rules whichare used according to the sex and date of birth.For this we check the different names against thedate of birth by implementing an indexed data-base system of names from Thai dictionary forevery day of a week.5 Conclusion and Further WorkWe have used Thai customs for the naming proc-ess, an ontology of names, and the basic rules forforming syllables in Thai to construct the rulebased naming system.
We want to extend thesystem using name matching algorithms to returnthe variants of names from a Thai dictionary withthe relative probability of their similarity.
Tospeed up this process we will use a databasestructure based on an ontology of names, e.g.
byindexing names according to gender and mean-ing with the help of a Thai dictionary database.We will use a Romanized version of Thai names.The advantage of this process would be animprovement of searching algorithms for Thainames in databases as well as in the internet.Here we will need name matching algorithms.The next step of development is to take into ac-count different cultures.Currently we are designing a system for mul-ticultural name matching called NARESUAN-M2 (NAme Recognition Expert System UsingAutomated Name Matching Methods).
A pri-mary objective here is to study how ontologiesand algorithms can help in deciding which rulesof naming system have to be implemented.
Thiswill also require an investigation into how on-tologies that cover the different elements ofnames can be merged.ReferencesHenrique Andrade and Joel Saltz.1999.
Towardsa Knowledge Base Management SystemKBMS: An Ontology-Aware Database Man-agement System DBMS, Proceedings of the14th Brazilian Symposium on Databases,Florianopolis, Brazil.Henrique Andrade and Joel Saltz.
2000.
QueryOptimization in Kess ?
An Ontology-BasedKBMS.
Proceedings of the 15th BrazilianSymposium on Databases (SBBD?2000).
Jo?oPessoa, Brazil.Simon Blackburn.
1996.
The Oxford Dictionaryof Philosophy, Oxford: OUP.CU.2004.<http://www.arts.chula.ac.th/%7Eling/tts/>(Nov. 19, 2005)Kerry Dematteis,  Richard Lutz and HeatherMcCallum-Bayliss.
1998.
Whose Name Is It:Names, Ownership and Databases.
Originallywritten for: 1998 Annual Meeting AmericanName Society San Francisco, CA.Leicester E. Gill.
1997.
OX-LINK: The OxfordMedical Record Linkage System, Complexlinkage made easy, Record Linkage Tech-niques.
In: Proceedings of an InternationalWorkshop and Exposition, 15-33.Thomas R. Gruber.
1993.
A Translation Ap-proach to Portable Ontology Specification.Knowledge Acquisition, Vol.
5, No.
2, 199-220.Nicola Guarino.
1998.
Formal Ontology and In-formation Systems.
In: Nicola Guarino (Ed.
):Proceedings FOIS?98, Amsterdam.Richard W. Hamming.
1986.
Coding and Infor-mation Theory.
2nd ed.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ:Prentice Hall.Daniel S. Jurafsky and James H. Martin.
2000.Speech and Language Processing, PrenticeHall.Percy H. Reaney and R.M.
Wilson.
1997.
A Dic-tionary of English Surnames, Oxford: OUP.W.G.
Wild.
1968.
The Theory of Modulus NCheck Digit Systems.
The Computer Bulletin,12, 308-311.Wikipedia.
2005.<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Thai_General_System_of_Transcription> (Nov. 19,2005)Ian Winchester.
1973.
On referring to ordinaryhistorical persons.
In: Identifying People in thePast.
E.A.
Wrigley (Ed.
), 17-40.Ian Winchester.
1970.
The Linkage of Historical Re-cords by Man and Computer: Techniques andProblems.
Journal of Interdisciplinary History.
1,107-124.93
