Multiword Units in an MT LexiconTam?s V?radiLinguistics InstituteHungarian Academy of Sciencesvaradi@nytud.huAbstractMultiword units significantly contributeto the robustness of MT systems as theyreduce the inevitable ambiguity inherentin word to word matching.
The paper fo-cuses on a relatively little studied kind ofMW units which are partially fixed andpartially productive.
In fact, MW unitswill be shown to form a continuum be-tween completely frozen expressionwhere the lexical elements are specifiedat the level of particular word forms andthose which are produced by syntacticrules defined in terms of general part ofspeech categories.
The paper will arguefor the use of local grammars proposedby Maurice Gross to capture the produc-tive regularity of MW units and will il-lustrate a uniform implementation ofthem in the NooJ grammar developmentframework.1 IntroductionThe robustness of MT systems crucially dependon the size and quality of their lexical compo-nenets.
It is commonly recognized that word-to-word equivalents are fraught with ambiguities.MW units on the other hand carry, as it were, thedisambiguating context with them.
Hence, themore MW units in the lexicon and the longerthey are, the less noisy and more robust the MTlexicon is likely to be.
However, not all kinds ofMW units are amenable to inclusion by itemizedlisting in the lexicon.
The paper will focus onMW units whose structure contains slots that canbe filled by more or less open ended lexicalunits.
They are treated in paper dictionaries withthe usual method of exemplification and implica-tion, which, even if the intended extension of theset of expression is clear, is obviously not a vi-able option in a machine system that cannot relyon the linguistic competence and world knowl-edge that human readers of dictionaries are ex-pected to bring to the job of interpreting lexicalentries.2 The multi-word unit continuumIn order to develop first an intuitive grasp of thephenomena, consider the following examples.1)  English-speaking populationFrench-speaking clientsSpanish-speaking studentsIt would not be difficult to carry on with fur-ther examples, each embodying a pattern <lan-guage-name> speaking <person> or <group ofpersons>.
It is a prototypical example for ourpurposes because the words are interdependentyet they admit of open-choice in the selection oflexical items for certain positions.
The phrases*speaking students, English-speaking, or Englishpopulation are either not well-formed or does notmean the same as the full expression.
The mean-ing of the phrase is predominantly, if perhaps notwholly, compositional and for native languagespeakers the structure may seem entirely trans-parent.
However, in a bilingual context thistransparency does not necessarily carry over tothe other language.
For example, the phrases in(1) are expressed in Hungarian as in 2)2)Angol nyelv?
lakoss?gEnglish language-Adj  populationFracia nyelv?
?gyfelekFrench language-Adj  clientsSpanyol nyelv?
di?kokSpanish language-Adj  studentsThe Hungarian equivalent bears the same charac-teristics of semantic compositionality and struc-tural transparency and is open-ended in the samepoints as the corresponding slots in the English73pattern.
It would be extremely wasteful to cap-ture the bilingual correspondences in an itemizedmanner, particularly as the set of expressions onboth sides are open-ended anyway.At the other end of the scale in terms of pro-ductivity and compositionality one finds phraseslike those listed in 3)3) English breakfastFrench friesGerman measlesPurely from a formal point of view, the phrasesin 3) could be captured in the pattern <languagename><noun> but the co-occurrence relationsbetween items in the two sets are limited to theextreme so that once they are defined properly,we are practically thrown back to the particularone-to-one combinations listed in 3).Note that if we had a set like 4), where oneelement is shared it would still not make sensemake sense to factorize the shared word Frenchbecause it enters into idiomatic semantic rela-tions.
In other words, the multi-word expressionsare semantically non-compositional even interms of English alone.4) French breadFrench hornFrench dressingThe set of terms in 5) exemplifies the other endof the scale in terms of compositionality and syn-tactic transparency.
They are adduced here toexemplify fully regular combinations of words intheir literal meaning.5) French schoolsFrench voteFrench booksFrench driversIn between the wholly idiosyncratic expressionswhich need to be listed in the lexicon and the setof completely open-choice expressions whichform the province of syntax, there is a wholegamut of expressions that seem to straddle thelexicon-syntax divide.
They are non-compositional in meaning to some extent andthey also include elements that come from amore or less open set.
Some of these open-choiceslots in the expressions may be filled with itemsfrom sets that are either infinite (like numbers) ornumerous enough to render them hopeless orwasteful for listing in a dictionary.
For this rea-son, they are typically not fully specified in dic-tionaries, which have no of means of represent-ing them explicitely in any other way than bylisting.
For want of anything better, lexicogra-phers rely on the linguistic intelligence of theirreaders to infer from a partial list the correct setof items that a given lexical unit applies to.
Bol-inger (Bolinger 1965)  elegantly sums up thisapproach asDictionaries do not exist to define, but to help peoplegrasp meaning, and for this purpose their main task isto supply a series of hints and associations that will re-late the unknown to something known.Adroit use of this technique may be quite suc-cessful with human readers but is obviously notviable for NLP purposes.
What is needed is somealgorithmic module in order to model the encod-ing/decoding processing that humans do in ap-plying their mental lexicon.
The most economi-cal and sometimes the only viable means toachieve this goal is to integrate some kind ofrule-based mechanism that would support therecognition as well as generation of all the lexi-cal units that conventional dictionaries evokethrough well-chosen partial set of data.3 Local grammarsLocal Grammars, developed by Maurice Gross(Gross 1997), are heavily lexicalized finite stategrammars devised to capture the intricacies oflocal syntactic or semantic phenomena.
In themid-nineties a very efficient tool, INTEX wasdeveloped at LADL, Paris VII, (Silberztein1999) which has two components that are ofprimary importance to us: it contains a complexlexical component (Silberztein 1993) and agraphical interface which supports the develop-ment of finite state transducers in the form ofgraphs (Silberztein 1999).Local grammars are typically defined ingraphs which are compiled into efficient finitestate automata or transducers.
Both the lexiconand the grammar are implemented in finite statetransducers.
This fact gives us the ideal tool toimplement the very kind of lexicon we have beenarguing for, one that includes both static entriesand lexical grammars.The set of expressions discussed in 1) can becaptured with the graph in Figure 1.
It shows asimple finite state automaton of a single withthrough three nodes along the way from the ini-tial symbol on the left to the end symbol on theright.
It represents all the expressions that matchas the graph is traversed between the two points.Words in angle brackets stand for the lemmaform, the shaded box represent a subgraph thatcan freely be embedded in graphs.
The facility of74Figure 1 INTEX/NOOJ graph to capture phrases like Eng-lish-speaking studentsgraph embedding has the practical conveniencethat it allows the reuse of the subgraph in othercontexts.
At a more theoretical level, it intro-duces the power of recursion into grammars.Subgraphs may also be used to represent a se-mantic class, such as language name in the pre-sent case, and can be encoded in the dictionarywith a semantic feature like +LANGNAME.
IN-TEX/NOOJ dictionaries allow an arbitrary num-ber of semantic features to be represented in thelexical entries and they can be used in the defini-tion of local grammars as well.
An alternativegrammar using semantic features is displayed inFigure 2.Figure 2 Representing the phrases in Figure 1 with seman-tic featuresNote that to render expressions like in 2) we uselocal grammars containing nodes that range fromspecific word forms through lemmas, lists ofwords, words defined by a semantic class in anontology to syntactic class or even the com-pletely general placeholder for any word.
Suchflexibility allows us to apply the constraint de-fined at the right level of generality required tocover exactly the set of expressions withoutovergeneration.The local grammars defining the kind of par-tially productive multi-word units that the pre-sent paper focuses on can typically be definedwith the nodes being defined in terms of somenatural semantic class such as the languagenames of examples 2) or names of colours orbody parts illustrated in 6)6a) the lady in black6b) a fekete ruh?s h?lgythe black clad ladyThe English expression in 6a) can be imple-mented with the graph in Figure 3, its Hungarianequivalent 6b) is displayed in Figure 4.Figure 3 Local grammar to cover the expressions like 6a)Figure 4 Local grammar to cover the expressions like 6b)The use of semantic features is merely the firststep in building an efficient lexicon.
At a moreadvanced level, the lexicon would include a sys-tem of semantic features arranged into typed hi-erarchy, which would allow use of multiple in-heritence.4 Application of local grammarsIn the present section we provide some examplesof how rendering multi-word units with localgrammars can enhance a multi-lingual applica-tion.4.1 Semantic disambiguationThe use of transducers in INTEX/NOOJ providesan intuitive and user-friendly means of semanticdisambiguation as illustrated in Figure 5.
Herethe appropriate meaning of the specific node isdefined by its Hungarian equivalent, but ofcourse one might just as well have used mono-lingual tags for the same purpose.75Figure 5.
Semantic disambiguation with the use of localgrammars4.2 Partial automatic translationOn the analogy of shallow parsing, we maycompile transducers that produce as output thetarget language equivalent of the chunks recog-nized.
This is illustrated in Figure 6 where theexpressions ?trade/trading in dollar/yen?
etc.
arerendered as ?doll?rkereskedelem, jenker-eskedelem?
etc.
whereas ?trade/trading in To-kyo/London?
etc.
are translated as?t?ki?i/londoni keresked?s?.
Note that the recog-nized words are stored in a variable captured bythe labelled brackets and used in the compilationof the output.Figure 5 Partial translation transducers using variables4.3 Automatic lexical acquisitionLocal grammars can be used not only for recog-nition and generation but also for automatedlexical acquisition.
This can be achieved bysuitably relaxing the constraints on one or moreof the nodes in a graph and apply it to a largecorpus.
The resulting hit expressions can then bemanually processed to find the semantic featureunderlying the expressions or establish furthersubclasses etc.As an example, consider Figure 7 containing agraph designed to capture expressions describingvarious kinds of graters in English.
As Figure 6shows the entry for grater in the Oxford Ad-vanced dictionary (Wehmeier 2005) uses onlyhints through specific examples as to what sort ofgraters there may be in EnglishFigure 6 Part of the dictionary entry GRATE from OALD7The node <MOT> matches an arbitrary word inINTEX, the symbol <E> covers an empty ele-ment, used here in disjunction the syntactic cate-gory <DET> to turn the latter optional.Figure 7 Automatic aquisition of multi-word units withlocal grammars5 ConclusionsIn the present paper we have highlighted the im-portance of multi-word units that are partiallyproductive.
Far from being peripheral, they ap-pear to be ubiquitous particularly when viewedin a multilingual setting.
Many of these expres-sions including such common phrases like atwenty year old woman may not beviewed as multi-word expressions at all until onerealizes the syntactic/semantic constraints in-volved in their structure (e.g.
*year oldwoman).
More importantly, once their transla-tion to another language is not entirely transpar-ent (i.e.
they cannot be rendered word by word),the crosslingual transfer must be registered.
It issuitably done in traditional dictionaries through asingle example, but in an MT system such reli-ance on the active contribution of the human useris not an option.
Nor is exhaustive listing, asproved by this simple but extremely commonexample.76We have shown how the use of local gram-mars can provide the flexibility required to coverthe phenomena of partially productive multi-word units which form a continuum between fro-zen multi-word expressions and open-ended pro-ductive phrases defined by syntactic rules sensi-tive to part of speech categories only.The local grammars were illustrated in somemultilingual applications using the grammar de-velopment environment INTEX/NOOJ, whichprovide an intuitive and linguistically sophisti-cated tool to explore the use of the multi-wordunits in question.ReferencesBolinger, D. (1965).
"The Atomization of Meaning.
"Language 41: 555-573.Gross, M. (1997).
The Construction of Local Gram-mars.
in  Y. S. Emmanuel Roche (szerk.)
FiniteState Language Processing.
MIT Press: 329-352.Sag, I. et al 2002 Multiword Expressions: A Pain inthe Neck for NLP.
in Proceedings of the Third In-ternational Conference on Intelligent Text Process-ing and Computational Linguistics CICLING2002): 1--15,Silberztein, M. (1993).
Dictionnaires ?lectorniques etanalyse automatique de textes: le systeme INTEX.Paris, Masson.Silberztein, M. (1999).
"Text Indexation with IN-TEX."
Computers and the Humanities 33(3): 265-280.Wehmeier, S., (szerk.)
(2005).
Oxford AdvancedLearner's Dictionary.
Oxford, Oxford UniversityPress.7778
