Text Linkage in the Wiki Medium ?
A Comparative StudyAlexander MehlerDepartment of Computational Linguistics & Text TechnologyBielefeld UniversityBielefeld, GermanyAlexander.Mehler@uni-bielefeld.deAbstractWe analyze four different types of docu-ment networks with respect to their smallworld characteristics.
These characteris-tics allow distinguishing wiki-based sys-tems from citation and more traditionaltext-based networks augmented by hyper-links.
The study provides evidence that amore appropriate network model is neededwhich better reflects the specifics of wikisystems.
It puts emphasize on their topo-logical differences as a result of wiki-related linking compared to other text-based networks.1 IntroductionWith the advent of web-based communication,more and more corpora are accessible which man-ifest complex networks based on intertextual rela-tions.
This includes the area of scientific commu-nication (e.g.
digital libraries as CiteSeer), presscommunication (e.g.
the New York Times whichlinks topically related articles), technical commu-nication (e.g.
the Apache Software Foundation?sdocumentations of open source projects) and elec-tronic encyclopedia (e.g.
Wikipedia and its re-leases in a multitude of languages).
These aresources of large corpora of web documents whichare connected by citation links (digital libraries),content-based add-ons (online press communica-tion) or hyperlinks to related lexicon articles (elec-tronic encyclopedias).Obviously, a corpus of such documents is morethan a set of textual units.
There is structure for-mation above the level of single documents whichcan be described by means of graph theory andnetwork analysis (Newman, 2003).
But what isnew about this kind of structure formation?
Or dowe just have to face the kind of structuring whichis already known from other linguistic networks?This paper focuses on the specifics of network-ing in wiki-based systems.
It tackles the followingquestions: What structure do wiki-based text net-works have?
Can we expect a wiki-specific topol-ogy compared to more traditional (e.g.
citation)networks?
Or can we expect comparable resultswhen applying network analysis to these emergingnetworks?
In the following sections, these ques-tions are approached by example of a languagespecific release of the Wikipedia as well as bywikis for technical documentation.
That is, wecontribute to answering the question why wiki canbe seen as something new compared to other texttypes from the point of view of networking.In order to support this argumentation, section(2) introduces those network coefficients whichare analyzed within the present comparative study.As a preprocessing step, section (3) outlines awebgenre model which in sections (4.1) and (4.2)is used to represent and extract instances of fourtypes of document networks.
This allows apply-ing the coefficients of section (2) to these instances(section 4.3) and narrowing down wiki-based net-works (section 5).
The final section concludes andprospects future work.2 Network AnalysisFor the time being, the overall structure of com-plex networks is investigated in terms of SmallWorlds (SW) (Newman, 2003).
Since its inven-tion by Milgram (1967), this notion awaited for-malization as a measurable property of large com-plex networks which allows distinguishing smallworlds from random graphs.
Such a formalizationwas introduced by Watts & Strogatz (1998) who1characterize small worlds by two properties: First,other than in regular graphs, any randomly chosenpair of nodes in a small world has, on average, aconsiderably shorter geodesic distance.1 Second,compared to random graphs, small worlds show aconsiderably higher level of cluster formation.In this framework, cluster formation is mea-sured by means of the average fraction of the num-ber O(vi) of triangles connected to vertex vi andthe number Y(vi) of triples centered on vi (Wattsand Strogatz, 1998):2C2 = 1n?iO(vi)Y(vi) (1)Alternatively, the cluster coefficient C1 com-putes the fraction of the number of triangles in thewhole network and the number of its connectedvertex triples.
Further, the mean geodesic distancel of a network is the arithmetic mean of all shortestpaths of all pairs of vertices in the network.
Wattsand Strogatz observe high cluster values and shortaverage geodesic distances in small worlds whichapparently combine cluster formation with short-cuts as prerequisites of efficient information flow.In the area of information networks, this propertyhas been demonstrated for the WWW (Adamic,1999), but also for co-occurrence networks (Ferreri Cancho and Sole?, 2001) and semantic networks(Steyvers and Tenenbaum, 2005).In addition to the SW model of Watts & Stro-gatz, link distributions were also examined in or-der to characterize complex networks: Baraba?si &Albert (1999) argue that the vertex connectivity ofsocial networks is distributed according to a scale-free power-law.
They recur to the observation ?confirmed by many social-semiotic networks, butnot by instances of the random graph model ofErdo?s & Re?nyi (Bolloba?s, 1985) ?
that the num-ber of links per vertex can be reliably predictedby a power-law.
Thus, the probability P (k) that arandomly chosen vertex interacts with k other ver-tices of the same network is approximatelyP (k) ?
k??
(2)Successfully fitting a power law to the distrib-ution of out degrees of vertices in complex net-works indicates ?that most nodes will be relatively1The geodesic distance of two vertices in a graph is thelength of the shortest path in-between.2A triangle is a subgraph of three nodes linked to eachother.
Note that all coefficients presented in the followingsections relate by default to undirected graphs.poorly connected, while a select minority of hubswill be very highly connected.?
(Watts, 2003,p.107).
Thus, for a fixed number of links, thesmaller the ?
value, the shallower the slope of thecurve in a log-log plot, the higher the number ofedges to which the most connected hub is incident.A limit of this model is that it views the prob-ability of linking a source node to a target nodeto depend solely on the connectivity of the lat-ter.
In contrast to this, Newman (2003) proposesa model in which this probability also depends onthe connectivity of the former.
This is done in or-der to account for social networks in which ver-tices tend to be linked if they share certain proper-ties (Newman and Park, 2003), a tendency whichis called assortative mixing.
According to New-man & Park (2003) it allows distinguishing socialnetworks from non-social (e.g.
artificial and bio-logical) ones even if they are uniformly attributedas small worlds according to the model of Watts& Strogatz (1998).
Newman & Park (2003) ana-lyze assortative mixing of vertex degrees, that is,the correlation of the degrees of linked vertices.They confirm that this correlation is positive in thecase of social, but negative in the case of techni-cal networks (e.g.
the Internet) which thus provedisassortative mixing (of degrees).Although these SW models were applied to cita-tion networks, WWW graphs, semantic networksand co-occurrence graphs, and thus to a varietyof linguistic networks, a comparative study whichfocuses on wiki-based structure formation in com-parison to other networks of textual units is miss-ing so far.
In this paper, we present such a study.That is, we examine SW coefficients which allowdistinguishing wiki-based systems from more ?tra-ditional?
networks.
In order to do that, a general-ized web document model is needed to uniformlyrepresent the document networks to be compared.In the following section, a webgenre model is out-lined for this purpose.3 A Webgenre Structure ModelLinguistic structures vary with the functions of thediscourses in which they are manifested (Biber,1995; Karlgren and Cutting, 1994).
In anal-ogy to the weak contextual hypothesis (Miller andCharles, 1991) one might state that structural dif-ferences reflect functional ones as far as they areconfirmed by a significantly high number of tex-tual units and thus are identifiable as recurrent pat-2terns.
In this sense, we expect web documentsto be distinguishable by the functional structuresthey manifest.
More specifically, we agree withthe notion of webgenre (Yoshioka and Herman,2000) according to which the functional structureof web documents is determined by their member-ship in genres (e.g.
of conference websites, per-sonal home pages or electronic encyclopedias).Our hypothesis is that what is common to in-stances of different webgenres is the existence ofan implicit logical document structure (LDS) ?
inanalogy to textual units whose LDS is describedin terms of section, paragraph and sentence cate-gories (Power et al, 2003).
In the case of web doc-uments we hypothesize that their LDS comprisesfour levels:?
Document networks consist of documentswhich serve possibly heterogenous functionsif necessary independently of each other.
Aweb document network is given, for example,by the system of websites of a university.?
Web documents manifest ?
typically in theform of websites ?
pragmatically closed actsof web-based communication (e.g.
confer-ence organization or online presentation).Each web document is seen to organize a sys-tem of dependent subfunctions which in turnare manifested by modules.?
Document modules are, ideally, functionallyhomogeneous subunits of web documentswhich manifest single, but dependent sub-functions in the sense that their realization isbound to the realization of other subfunctionsmanifested by the same encompassing docu-ment.
Examples of such subfunctions are callfor papers, program presentation or confer-ence venue organization as subfunctions ofthe function of web-based conference orga-nization.?
Finally, elementary building blocks (e.g.
lists,tables, sections) only occur as dependentparts of document modules.This enumeration does not imply a one-to-onemapping between functionally demarcated mani-fested units (e.g.
modules) and manifesting (lay-out) units (e.g.
web pages).
Obviously, the samefunctional variety (e.g.
of a personal academichome page) which is mapped by a website ofdozens of interlinked pages may also be mani-fested by a single page.
The many-to-many re-lation induced by this and related examples is de-scribed in more detail in Mehler & Gleim (2005).The central hypothesis of this paper is that genrespecific structure formation also concerns docu-ment networks.
That is, we expect them to varywith respect to structural characteristics accordingto the varying functions they meet.
Thus, we donot expect that different types of document net-works (e.g.
systems of genre specific websites vs.wiki-based networks vs. online citation networks)manifest homogeneous characteristics, but signif-icant variations thereof.
As we concentrate on co-efficients which were originally introduced in thecontext of small world analyses, we expect, moreconcretely, that different network types vary ac-cording to their fitting to or deviation from thesmall world model.
As we analyze only a coupleof networks, this observation is bound to the cor-pus of networks considered in this study.
It never-theless hints at how to rethink network analysis inthe context of newly emerging network types as,for example, Wikipedia.In order to support this argumentation, the fol-lowing section presents a model for representingand extracting document networks.
After that,the SW characteristics of these networks are com-puted and discussed.4 Network Modeling and Analysis4.1 Graph ModelingIn order to analyse the characteristics of docu-ment networks, a format for uniformly represent-ing their structure is needed.
In this section, wepresent generalized trees for this task.
Generalizedtrees are graphs with a kernel tree-like structure ?henceforth called kernel hierarchy ?
superimposedby graph-forming edges as models of hyperlinks.Figure (1) illustrates this graph model.
It distin-guishes three levels of structure formation:1.
According to the webgenre model of section(3), L1-graphs map document networks andthus corpora of interlinked (web) documents.In section (4.3), four sources of such networksare explored: wiki document networks, citationnetworks, webgenre corpora and, for comparisonwith a more traditional medium, networks of news-paper articles.3Figure 1: The stratified model of network representation with kernel hierarchies of L2-graphs.2.
L2-graphs model the structure of web doc-uments as constituents of a given network.This structure is seen to be based on ker-nel hierarchies superimposed, amongst oth-ers, by up, down and across links (see fig.
1).In the case of webgenre corpora, L2-graphs mo-del websites.
In the case of citation networks, theymap documents which consist of a scientific arti-cle and add-ons in the form of citation links.
Like-wise, in the case of online newspapers, L2-graphsmodel articles together with content-based hyper-links.
Finally, in the case of wikis, L2-graphs rep-resent wiki documents each of which consists of awiki article together with a corresponding discus-sion and editing page.
According to the webgenremodel of section (3), L2-graphs model web docu-ments which consist of nodes whose structuring isfinally described by L3-graphs:3.
L3-graphs model the structure of documentmodules.In the case of webgenre corpora, L3-graphsmap the DOM3-based structure of the web pagesof the websites involved.
In the case of all othernetworks distinguished above they represent thelogical structure of single text units (e.g.
the sec-tion and paragraph structuring of a lexicon, news-paper or scientific article).
Note that the tree-likestructure of a document module may be superim-posed by hyperlinks, too, as illustrated in figure(1) by the vertices m and n.3I.e.
Document Object Model.The kernel hierarchy of an L2-graph is consti-tuted by kernel links which are distinguished fromacross, up, down and outside links (Amitay etal., 2003; Eiron and McCurley, 2003; Mehler andGleim, 2005).
These types can be distinguished asfollows:?
Kernel links associate dominating nodes withtheir immediately dominated successor nodesin terms of the kernel hierarchy.?
Down links associate nodes with one of their(mediately) dominated successor nodes interms of the kernel hierarchy.?
Up links analogously associate nodes of thekernel hierarchy with one of their (mediatelydominating) predecessor nodes.?
Across links associate nodes of the kernel hi-erarchy none of which is an (im-)mediate pre-decessor of the other in terms of the kernelhierarchy.?
Extra (or outside) links associate nodes of thekernel hierarchy with nodes of other docu-ments.Kernel hierarchies are exemplified by a confer-ence website headed by a title and menu page re-ferring to, for example, the corresponding call forpapers which in turn leads to pages on the differentconference sessions etc.
so that finally a hierarchi-cal structure evolves.
In this example the kernel hi-erarchy evidently reflects navigational constraints.That is, the position of a page in the tree reflects4the probability to be navigated by a reader startingfrom the root page and following kernel links only.The kernel hierarchy of a wiki document isspanned by an article page in conjunction withthe corresponding discussion (or talk), history andedit this or view source pages which altogetherform a flatly structured tree.
Likewise in thecase of citation networks as the CiteSeer system(Lawrence et al, 1999), a document consists ofthe various (e.g.
PDF or PS) versions of the focalarticle as well as of one or more web pages mani-festing its citations by means of hyperlinks.From the point of view of document networkanalysis, L2-graphs and inter links (see fig.
1) aremost relevant as they span the corresponding net-work mediated by documents (e.g.
websites) andmodules (e.g.
web pages).
This allows specifyingwhich links of which type in which network areexamined in the present study:?
In the case of citation networks, citation linksare modeled as interlinks as they relate (sci-entific) articles encapsulated by documents ofthis network type.
Citation networks are ex-plored by example of the CiteSeer system:We analyze a sample of more than 550,000articles (see table 1) ?
the basic populationcovers up to 800,000 documents.?
In the case of newspaper article networks,content-based links are explored as resourcesof networking.
This is done by example ofthe 1997 volume of the German newspaperSu?ddeutsche Zeitung (see table 1).
That is,firstly, nodes are given by articles where twonodes are interlinked if the corresponding ar-ticles contain see also links to each other.In the online and ePaper issue of this news-paper these links are manifested as hyper-links.
Secondly, articles are linked if theyappear on the same page of the same is-sue so that they belong to the same thematicfield.
By means of these criteria, a bipar-tite network (Watts, 2003) is built in whichthe top-mode is spanned by topic and pageunits, whereas the bottom-mode consists oftext units.
In such a network, two texts are in-terlinked whenever they relate to at least onecommon topic or appear on the same page ofthe same issue.?
In the case of webgenres we explore a cor-pus of 1,096 conference websites (see tablevariable valuenumber of web sites 1,096number of web pages 50,943number of hyperlinks 303,278maximum depth 23maximum width 1,035average size 46average width 38average height 2Table 2: A corpus of conference and workshopwebsites (counting unit: web pages).1 and 2) henceforth called indogram cor-pus.4 We analyze the out degrees of all webpages of these websites and thus explore ker-nel, up, down, across, inter and outside linkson the level of L2-graphs.
This is done inorder to get a base line for our comparativestudy, since WWW-based networks are wellknown for their small world behavior.
Morespecifically, this relates to estimations of theexponent ?
of power laws fitted to their de-gree distributions (Newman, 2003).?
These three networks are explored in or-der to comparatively study networking inWikipedia which is analyzed by example ofits German release de.wikipedia.org(see table 1).
Because of the rich system of itsnode and link types (see section 4.2) we ex-plore three variants thereof.
Further, in orderto get a more reliable picture of wiki-basedstructure formation, we also analyze wikis inthe area of technical documentation.
Thisis done by example of three wikis on opensource projects of the Apache Software Foun-dation (cf.
wiki.apache.org).In the following section, the extraction of Wiki-pedia-based networks is explained in more detail.4.2 Graph Extraction ?
the Case of Wiki-based Document NetworksIn the following section we analyze the networkspanned by document modules of the GermanWikipedia and their inter links.5 This cannot sim-ply be done by extracting all its article pages.The reason is that Wikipedia documents consist4See http://ariadne.coli.uni-bielefeld.de/indogram/resources.html for the list of URLsof the documents involved.5We downloaded and extracted the XML release ofthis wiki ?
cf.
http://download.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/de/pages current.xml.bz2.5network network genre node |V | |E|de.wikipedia.org electronic encyclopedia wiki unitvariant I (e.g.
article or talk) 303,999 5,895,615variant II 406,074 6,449,906variant III 796,454 9,161,706wiki.apache.org/jakarta online technical documentation wiki unit 916 21,835wiki.apache.org/struts online technical documentation wiki unit 1,358 40,650wiki.apache.org/ws online technical documentation wiki unit 1,042 23,871citeseer.ist.psu.edu digital library open archive record 575,326 5,366,832indogram conference websites genre web page 50,943 303,278Su?ddeutsche Zeitung 1997 press communication newspaper article 87,944 2,179,544Table 1: The document networks analyzed and the sizes |V | and |E| of their vertex and edge sets.of modules (manifested by pages) of various typeswhich are likewise connected by links of differ-ent types.
Consequently, the choice of instancesof these types has to be carefully considered.Table (3) lists the node types (and their fre-quencies) as found in the wiki or additionally in-troduced into the study in order to organize thetype system into a hierarchy.
One heuristic forextracting instances of node types relates to theURL of the corresponding page.
Category, por-tal and media wiki pages, for example, contain theprefix Kategorie, Portal and MediaWiki,respectively, separated by a colon from its pagename suffix (as in http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kategorie:Musik).Analogously, table (4) lists the edge types ei-ther found within the wiki or additionally intro-duced into the study.
Of special interest are redi-rect nodes and links which manifest transitive and,thus, mediate links of content-based units.
An arti-cle node v may be linked, for example, with a redi-rect node r which in turn redirects to an article w.In this case, the document network contains twoedges (v, r), (r, w) which have to be resolved to asingle edge (v, w) if redirects are to be excluded inaccordance with what the MediaWiki system doeswhen processing them.Based on these considerations, we compute net-work characteristics of three extractions of theGerman Wikipedia (see table 1): Variant I con-sists of a graph whose vertex set contains all Ar-ticle nodes and whose edge set is based on In-terlinks and appropriately resolved Redirect links.Variant II enlarges variant I by including othercontent-related wiki units, i.e.
ArticleTalk, Portal,PortalTalk, and Disambiguation pages (multiplytyped nodes were excluded).
Variant III consistsof a graph whose vertex set covers all vertices andedges found in the extraction.Type FrequencyDocuments total 796,454Article 303,999RedirectNode 190,193Talk 115,314ArticleTalk 78,224UserTalk 30,924ImageTalk 2,379WikipediaTalk 1,380CategoryTalk 1,272TemplateTalk 705PortalTalk 339MediaWikiTalk 64HelpTalk 27Image 97,402User 32,150Disambiguation 22,768Category 21,999Template 6,794Wikipedia 3,435MediaWiki 1,575Portal 791Help 34Table 3: The system of node types and their fre-quencies within the German Wikipedia.4.3 Network AnalysisBased on the input networks described in the pre-vious section we compute the SW coefficients de-scribed in section (2).
Average geodesic distan-ces are computed by means of the Dijkstra algo-rithm based on samples of 1,000 vertices of theinput networks (or the whole vertex set if it is ofminor cardinality).
Power law fittings were com-puted based on the model P (x) = ax??
+ b. Notethat table (1) does not list the cardinalities of multisets of edges and, thus, does not count multipleedges connecting the same pair of vertices withinthe corresponding input network ?
therefore, thenumbers in table (1) do not necessarily conform tothe counts of link types in table (4).
Note furtherthat we compute, as usually done in SW analyses,characteristics of undirected graphs.
In the case ofwiki-based networks, this is justified by the possi-bility to process back links in Media Wiki sys-tems.
In the case of the CiteSeer system this isjustified by the fact that it always displays citation6Type FrequencyLinks total 17,814,539Interlink 12,818,378CategoryLink 1,415,295Categorizes 704,092CategorizedBy 704,092CategoryAssociatesWith 7,111TopicOfTalk 103,253TalkOfTopic 88,095HyponymOf 26,704HyperonymOf 26,704InterPortalAssociation 1,796Broken 2,361,902Outside 1,276,818InterWiki 789,065External 487,753Intra 1,175,290Kernel 1,153,928Across 6,331Up 6,121Reflexive 5,433Down 3,477Redirect 182,151Table 4: The system of link types and their fre-quencies within the German Wikipedia.and cited by links.
Finally, in the case of the news-paper article network, this is due to the fact thatit is based on a bipartite graph (see above).
Notethat the indogram corpus consists of predomi-nantly unrelated websites and thus does not allowcomputing cluster and distance coefficients.5 DiscussionThe numerical results in table (5) are remarkableas they allow identifying three types of networks:?
On the one hand, we observe the extremecase of the Su?ddeutsche Zeitung, thatis, of the newspaper article network.
It is theonly network which, at the same time, hasvery high cluster values, short geodesic dis-tances and a high degree of assortative mix-ing.
Thus, its values support the assertion thatit behaves as a small world in the sense of themodel of Watts & Strogatz.
The only excep-tion is the remarkably low ?
value, where,according to the model of Baraba?si & Al-bert (1999), a higher value was expected.?
On the other hand, the CiteSeer sample is thereverse case: It has very low values of C1 andC2, tends to show neither assortative, nor dis-assortative mixing, and at the same time has alow ?
value.
The small cluster values can beexplained by the low probability with whichtwo authors cited by a focal article are relatedby a citation relation on their own.66Although articles can be expected which cite, for exam-?
The third group is given by the wiki-basednetworks: They tend to have higher C1 andC2 values than the citation network does, butalso tend to show stochastic mixing and shortgeodesic distances.
The cluster values areconfirmed by the wikis of technical docu-mentation (also w.r.t their numerical order).Thus, these wikis tend to be small worlds ac-cording to the model of Watts & Strogatz,but also prove disassortative mixing ?
compa-rable to technical networks but in departurefrom social networks.
Consequently, they areranked in-between the citation and the news-paper article network.All these networks show rather short geodesicdistances.
Thus, l seems to be inappropriate withrespect to distinguishing them in terms of SWcharacteristics.
Further, all these examples showremarkably low values of the ?
coefficient.
In con-trast to this, power laws as fitted in the analysesreported by Newman (2003) tend to have muchhigher exponents ?
Newman reports on valueswhich range between 1.4 and 3.0.
This result isonly realized by the indogram corpus of confer-ence websites, thus, by a sample of WWW docu-ments whose out degree distribution is fitted by apower law with exponent ?
= 2.562.These findings support the view that comparedto WWW-based networks wiki systems behavemore like ?traditional?
networks of textual units,but are new in the sense that their topology nei-ther approximates the one of citation networks norof content-based networks of newspaper articles.In other words: As intertextual relations are genresensitive (e.g.
citations in scientific communica-tion vs. content-based relations in press commu-nication vs. hyperlinks in online encyclopedias),networks based on such relations seem to inheritthis genre sensitivity.
That is, for varying genres(e.g.
of scientific, technical or press communica-tion) differences in topological characteristics oftheir instance networks are expected.
The studypresents results in support of this view of the genresensitivity of text-based networks.6 ConclusionWe presented a comparative study of documentnetworks based on small world characteristics.ple, de Saussure and Chomsky, there certainly exist much lesscitations of de Saussure in articles of Chomsky.7instance type ?d?
l ?
C1 C2 rWikipedia variant I undirected 19.39 3.247 0.4222 0.009840 0.223171 ?0.10Wikipedia variant II undirected 15.88 3.554 0.5273 0.009555 0.186392 ?0.09Wikipedia variant III undirected 11.50 4.004 0.7405 0.007169 0.138602 ?0.05wiki.apache.org/jakarta undirected 23.84 4.488 0.2949 0.193325 0.539429 ?0.50wiki.apache.org/struts undirected 29.93 4.530 0.2023 0.162044 0.402418 ?0.45wiki.apache.org/ws undirected 22.91 4.541 0.1989 0.174974 0.485342 ?0.48citeseer.ist.psu.edu undirected 9.33 4.607 0.9801 0.027743 0.067786 ?0.04indogram directed 5.95 ???
2.562 ???
???
??
?Su?ddeutsche Zeitung undirected 24.78 4.245 0.1146 0.663973 0.683839 0.699Table 5: Numerical values of SW-related coefficients of structure formation in complex networks: theaverage number ?d?
of edges per node, the mean geodesic distance l, the exponent ?
of successfully fittedpower laws, the cluster values C1, C2 and the coefficient r of assortative mixing.According to our findings, three classes of net-works were distinguished.
This classification sep-arates wiki-based systems from more traditionaltext networks but also from WWW-based web-genres.
Thus, the study provides evidence thatthere exist genre specific characteristics of text-based networks.
This raises the question for mod-els of network growth which better account forthese findings.
Future work aims at elaboratingsuch a model.ReferencesLada A. Adamic.
1999.
The small world of web.
InSerge Abiteboul and Anne-Marie Vercoustre, edi-tors, Research and Advanced Technology for DigitalLibraries, pages 443?452.
Springer, Berlin.Einat Amitay, David Carmel, Adam Darlow, RonnyLempel, and Aya Soffer.
2003.
The connectivitysonar: detecting site functionality by structural pat-terns.
In Proc.
of the 14th ACM conference on Hy-pertext and Hypermedia, pages 38?47.Albert-La?szlo?
Baraba?si and Re?ka Albert.
1999.
Emer-gence of scaling in random networks.
Science,286:509?512.Douglas Biber.
1995.
Dimensions of Register Varia-tion: A Cross-Linguistic Comparison.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Be?la Bolloba?s.
1985.
Random Graphs.
AcademicPress, London.Nadav Eiron and Kevin S. McCurley.
2003.
Untan-gling compound documents on the web.
In Proceed-ings of the 14th ACM conference on Hypertext andHypermedia, Nottingham, UK, pages 85?94.Ramon Ferrer i Cancho and Ricard V. Sole?.
2001.
Thesmall-world of human language.
Proceedings of theRoyal Society of London.
Series B, Biological Sci-ences, 268(1482):2261?2265, November.Jussi Karlgren and Douglass Cutting.
1994.
Recogniz-ing text genres with simple metrics using discrimi-nant analysis.
In Proc.
of COLING ?94, volume II,pages 1071?1075, Kyoto, Japan.Steve Lawrence, C. Lee Giles, and Kurt Bollacker.1999.
Digital libraries and Autonomous Citation In-dexing.
IEEE Computer, 32(6):67?71.Alexander Mehler and Ru?diger Gleim.
2005.
The netfor the graphs ?
towards webgenre representationfor corpus linguistic studies.
In Marco Baroni andSilvia Bernardini, editors, WaCky!
Working paperson the Web as corpus.
Gedit, Bologna, Italy.Stanley Milgram.
1967.
The small-world problem.Psychology Today, 2:60?67.George A. Miller and Walter G. Charles.
1991.
Con-textual correlates of semantic similarity.
Languageand Cognitive Processes, 6(1):1?28.Mark E. J. Newman and Juyong Park.
2003.
Why so-cial networks are different from other types of net-works.
Physical Review E, 68:036122.Mark E. J. Newman.
2003.
The structure and functionof complex networks.
SIAM Review, 45:167?256.Richard Power, Donia Scott, and Nadjet Bouayad-Agha.
2003.
Document structure.
ComputationalLinguistics, 29(2):211?260.Mark Steyvers and Josh Tenenbaum.
2005.
Thelarge-scale structure of semantic networks: Statisti-cal analyses and a model of semantic growth.
Cog-nitive Science, 29(1):41?78.Duncan J. Watts and Steven H. Strogatz.
1998.
Collec-tive dynamics of ?small-world?
networks.
Nature,393:440?442.Duncan J. Watts.
2003.
Six Degrees.
The Science of aConnected Age.
Norton & Company, New York.Takeshi Yoshioka and George Herman.
2000.
Coordi-nating information using genres.
Technical report,Massachusetts Institute of Technology, August.8
