Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 82?89,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsPostnominal Prepositional Phrase Attachment in ProteomicsJonathan Schuman and Sabine BerglerThe CLaC LaboratoryDepartment of Computer Science and Software EngineeringConcordia University, Montreal, Canada{j schuma,bergler}@cs.concordia.caAbstractWe present a small set of attachmentheuristics for postnominal PPs occurringin full-text articles related to enzymes.A detailed analysis of the results sug-gests their utility for extraction of rela-tions expressed by nominalizations (oftenwith several attached PPs).
The systemachieves 82% accuracy on a manually an-notated test corpus of over 3000 PPs fromvaried biomedical texts.1 IntroductionThe biomedical sciences suffer from an overwhelm-ing volume of information that is growing at explo-sive rates.
Most of this information is found onlyin the form of published literature.
Given the largevolume, it is becoming increasingly difficult for re-searchers to find relevant information.
Accordingly,there is much to be gained from the development ofrobust and reliable tools to automate this task.Current systems in this domain focus primarilyon abstracts.
Though the salient points of an articleare present in the abstract, much detailed informa-tion is entirely absent and can be found only in thefull text (Shatkay and Feldman, 2003; Corney et al,2004).
Optimal conditions for enzymatic activity,details of experimental procedures, and useful ob-servations that are tangential to the main point of thearticle are just a few examples of such information.Full-text articles in enzymology are characterizedby many complex noun phrases (NPs), usually withchains of several prepositional phrases (PPs).
Nom-inalized relations are particularly frequent, with ar-guments and adjuncts mentioned in attached PPs.Thus, the tasks of automated search, retrieval, andextraction in this domain stand to benefit signifi-cantly from efforts in semantic interpretation of NPsand PPs.There are currently no publicly available biomed-ical corpora suitable for this task.
(See (Cohen et al,2005) for an overview of currently available biomed-ical corpora.)
Therefore, statistical approaches thatrely on extensive training data are essentially notfeasible.
Instead, we approach the task through care-ful analysis of the data and development of heuris-tics.
In this paper, we report on a rule-based post-nominal PP attachment system developed as a firststep toward a more general NP semantics for pro-teomics.2 BackgroundLeroy et al (2002; 2003) note the importance ofnoun phrases and prepositions in the capture of rela-tional information in biomedical texts, citing the par-ticular significance of the prepositions by, of, and in.Their parser can extract many different relations us-ing few rules by relying on closed-class words (e.g.prepositions) instead of restricting patterns with spe-cific predefined verbs and entities.
This bottom-up approach achieves high precision (90%) and aclaimed (though unquantified) high recall.
However,they side-step the issue of prepositional attachmentambiguity altogether.
Also, their system is targetedspecifically and only toward relations.
While rela-tions do cover a considerable portion of the most rel-evant information in biomedical texts, there is alsomuch relevant lower frequency information (partic-ularly in enzymology) such as the conditions underwhich these relations are expressed.82Hahn et al (2002) point out that PPs are crucialfor semantic interpretation of biomedical texts dueto the wide variety of conceptual relations they in-troduce.
They note that this is reflected in theirtraining and test data, extracted from findings re-ports in histopathology, where prepositions accountfor about 10% of all words and more than 25% ofthe text is contained in PPs.
The coverage of PPs inour development and test data, comprised of variedtexts in proteomics, is even higher with 26% of thetext occurring in postnominal PPs alone.Little research in the biomedical domain ad-dresses the problem of PP attachment proper.
Thisis partly due to the number of systems that pro-cess text using named-entity-based templates, dis-regarding PPs.
In fact, the only recent BioNLP sys-tem found in the literature that makes any mentionof PP attachment is Medstract (Pustejovsky et al,2002), an automated information extraction systemfor Medline abstracts.
The shallow parsing moduleused in Medstract performs ?limited?
prepositionalattachment?only of prepositions are attached.There are, of course, several PP attachment sys-tems for other domains.
Volk (2001) addresses PPattachment using the frequency of co-occurrence ofa PP?s preposition, object NP, and possible attach-ment points, calculated from query results of a web-based search engine.
This system was evaluatedon sentences from a weekly computer magazine,scoring 74% accuracy for both VP and NP attach-ment.
Brill & Resnik (1994) put transformation-based learning with added word-class informationfrom WordNet to the task of PP attachment.
Theirsystem achieves 81.8% accuracy on sentences fromthe Penn Treebank Wall Street Journal corpus.The main concerns of both these systems differfrom the requirements for successful PP attachmentin proteomics.
The main attachment ambiguity inthese general texts is between VP and NP attach-ment, where there are few NPs to choose from for agiven PP.
In contrast, proteomics texts, where NPsare the main information carriers, contain many NPswith long sequences of postnominal PPs.
Conse-quently, the possible attachment points for a givenPP are more numerous.
By ?postnominal?, we de-note PPs following an NP, where the attachmentpoint may be within the NP but may also precedeit.
In focusing on postnominal PPs, we exclude herePPs that trivially attach to the VP for lack of NP at-tachment points and focus on the subset of PPs withthe highest degree of attachment ambiguity.3 ApproachFor this exploratory study we compiled two manu-ally annotated corpora1 , a smaller, targeted devel-opment corpus consisting of sentences referring toenzymes in five articles, and a larger test corpus con-sisting of the full text of nine articles drawn from awider set of topics.
This bias in the data was set de-liberately to test whether NPs referring to enzymesfollow a distinct pattern.
Our results suggest thatthe compiled heuristics are in fact not specific to en-zymes, but work with comparable performance for amuch wider set of NPs.As our goal is semantic interpretation of NPs,only postnominal PPs were considered.
A largenumber of these follow a very simple attachmentprinciple?right association.Right association (Kimball, 1973), or late clo-sure, describes a preference for parses that result inthe parse tree with the most right branches.
Sim-ply stated, right association assumes that new con-stituents are part of the closest possible constituentthat is under construction.
In the case of postnomi-nal PPs, right association attaches each PP to the NPthat immediately precedes it.
An example where thisstrategy does fairly well is given below.The effect of hydrolysis of the hemicelluloses in themilled wood lignin on the molecular mass distribu-tion was then examined.
.
.Notice that, except for the last PP, attachment to thepreceding NP is correct.
The last PP, on the molecu-lar mass distribution, modifies the head NP effect.Another frequent pattern in our corpus is givenbelow with a corresponding text fragment.
In thispattern, the entire NP consists of one reaction fullydescribed by several PPs that all attach to a nominal-ization in the head NP.
Attachment according to thispattern is in direct opposition to right association.<ACTION> <PREPOSITION> <PRODUCT><PREPOSITION> <SUBSTRATE><PREPOSITION> <ENZYME><PREPOSITION> <MEASUREMENT>1There was a single annotator for both corpora, who wasalso the developer of the heuristics.83.
.
.
the release of reducing sugars from car-boxymethylcellulose by cellulase at 37 oC, pH4.8.
.
.In general, the attachment behavior of a large per-centage of PPs in the examined literature can becharacterized by either right association or attach-ment to a nominalization.
The preposition of a PPseems to be the main criterion for determining whichattachment principle to apply.
A few prepositionswere observed to follow right association almost ex-clusively, while others show a strong affinity towardnominalizations, defaulting to right association onlywhen no nominalization is available.These observations were implemented as attach-ment heuristics for the most frequently occurringPPs, as distinguished by their prepositions (see Ta-ble 1 for frequency data).
These rules, as outlinedbelow, account for 90% of all postnominal PPs inthe corpus.
The remaining 10%, for which no clearpattern could be found, are attached using right as-sociation.Devel.
Corpus Test CorpusPrep Freq Syst Base Freq Syst Baseof 50.0 99.0 99.0 53.4 98.2 98.2in 11.9 74.8 55.6 11.7 67.0 54.6from 8.3 87.0 87.0 3.67 71.8 71.8for 4.5 81.1 81.0 5.1 56.1 56.0with 4.5 83.8 75.7 4.7 70.8 65.2between 4.2 68.6 68.6 1.2 84.2 84.2at 3.3 81.5 18.5 4.0 68.3 40.7on 3.1 84.6 57.7 2.1 80.0 53.9by 2.5 95.2 23.8 2.4 76.7 45.2to 2.3 63.2 63.2 5.0 51.6 51.6as 1.8 66.7 46.7 0.7 40.9 36.4Table 1: Frequency of prepositions with correspond-ing PP attachment accuracy for the implementedheuristics and the baseline (right association) on de-velopment and test set.Right Association (of, from, for)PPs headed by of, from, and for attach almost exclu-sively according to right association.
In particular,no violation of right association by of PPs has beenfound.
The system, therefore, attaches any PP fromthis class to the NP immediately preceding it.Strong Nominalization Affinity (by, at)In contrast, by and at PPs attach almost exclusivelyto nominalizations.
Only rarely have they been ob-served to attach to non-nominalization NPs.
In mostcases where no nominalizations are present in theNP, a PP of this class actually attaches to a preced-ing VP.
Typical nominalization and VP attachmentsfound in the corpus are exemplified in the followingtwo sentences.. .
.
the formation of stalk cells by culB?
pkaR?cells decreased about threefold.
.
.. .
.
xylooligosaccharides were not detected in hy-drolytic products from corn cell walls by TLCanalysis.This attachment preference is implemented in thesystem as the heuristic for strong nominalizationaffinity.
Given a PP from this class, the system firstattempts attachment to the closest nominalization tothe left.
If no such NP is found, the PP is assumedto attach to a VP.Weak Nominalization Affinity (in, with, as)In, with, and as PPs show similar affinity towardnominalizations.
In fact, initially, these PPs wereattached with the strong affinity heuristic.
How-ever, after further observation it became apparentthat these PPs do often attach to non-nominalizationNPs.
A typical example for each of these possibili-ties is given as follows.. .
.
incubation of the substrate pullulan with proteinfractions.The major form of beta-amylase in Arabidopsis.
.
.Here, the system first attempts nominalization at-tachment.
If no nominalizations are present in theNP, instead of defaulting to VP attachment, the PPis attached to the closest NP to its left that is notthe object of an of PP.
This behavior is intuitivelyconsistent since in PPs are usually adjuncts to themain NP (which is usually an entity if not a nom-inalization) and are unlikely to modify any of theNP?s modifiers.
?Effect on?The final heuristic encodes the frequent attachmentof on PPs with NPs indicating effect, influence, im-pact, etc.
While this relationship seems intuitive andlikely to occur in varied texts, it may be dispropor-tionally frequent in proteomics texts.
Nonetheless,the heuristic does have a strong basis in the exam-ined literature.
An example is provided below.84.
.
.
the effects of reduced ?-amylase activity on seedformation and germination.
.
.The system checks NPs preceding an on PP for theclosest occurrence of an ?effect?
NP.
If no such NPsare found, right association is used.4 System OverviewThere are three main phases of processing that mustoccur before the PP attachment heuristics can be ap-plied.
These include preprocessing and two stagesof NP chunking.
Upon completion of these threephases, the PP attachment module is executed.The preprocessing phase consists of standard to-kenization and part-of-speech tagging, as well asnamed entity recognition (and other term lookup)using gazetteer lists and simple transducers.
Recog-nition is currently limited to enzymes, organisms,chemicals, (enzymological) activities, and measure-ments.
A comprehensive enzyme list including syn-onyms was compiled from BRENDA2 and somelimited organism lists3, including common abbrevi-ations, were augmented based on organisms foundin the development corpus.
For recognition of sub-strates and products, some of the chemical entitylists from BioRAT (Corney et al, 2004) are used.Activity lists from BioRAT, with several enzyme-specific additions, are also used.The next phase of processing uses a chunker re-ported in (Bergler et al, 2003) and further developedfor a related project.
NP chunking is performed intwo stages, using two separate context-free gram-mars and an Earley-type chart parser.
No domain-specific information is used in either of the gram-mars; recognized entities and terms are used only forimproved tokenization.
The first stage chunks baseNPs, without attachments.
Here, the parser inputis segmented into smaller sentence fragments to re-duce ambiguity and processing time.
The fragmentsare delimited by verbs, prepositions, and sentenceboundaries, since none of these can occur within abase NP.
In the second chunking stage, entire sen-tences are parsed to extract NPs containing conjunc-tions and PP attachments.
At this stage, no attemptis made to determine the proper attachment structureof the PPs or to exclude postnominal PPs that should2http://www.brenda.uni-koeln.de3Compiled for a related project.actually be attached to a preceding VP?any PP thatfollows an NP has the potential to attach somewherein the NP.The final phase of processing is performed by thePP attachment module.
Here, each postnominal PPis examined and attached according to the rule for itspreposition.
Only base NPs within the same NP areconsidered as possible attachment points.
For thestrong nominalization affinity heuristic, if no nomi-nalization is found, the PP is assumed to attach to theclosest preceding VP.
For both nominalization affin-ity heuristics, the UMLS SPECIALIST Lexicon4 isused to determine whether the head noun of eachpossible attachment point is a nominalization.5 Results & AnalysisThe development corpus was compiled from five ar-ticles retrieved from PubMed Central5 (PMC).
Thearticles were the top-ranked results returned fromfive separate queries6 using BioKI:Enzymes, a lit-erature navigation tool (Bergler et al, 2006).
Sen-tences containing enzymes were extracted and theremaining sentences were discarded.
In total, 476sentences yielding 830 postnominal PPs were man-ually annotated as the development corpus.Attachment accuracy on the development corpusis 88%.
The accuracy and coverage of each rule issummarized in Table 2 and discussed in the follow-ing sections.
Also, as a reference point for perfor-mance comparison, the system was tested using onlythe right association heuristic resulting in a baselineaccuracy of 80%.
The system performance is con-trasted with the baseline and summarized for eachpreposition in Table 1.Devel.
Corpus Test CorpusHeuristic Freq Accuracy Freq AccuracyRight Association 62.8 96.2 62.1 93.3Weak NA 18.2 76.2 17.1 67.0Strong NA 5.8 87.5 6.4 71.4?Effect on?
3.1 84.6 2.1 80.0Default (RA) 10.1 60.7 12.3 49.5Table 2: Coverage and accuracy of each heuristic.4http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/5http://www.pubmedcentral.com6Amylase, CGTase, pullulanase, ferulic acid esterase, andcellwallase were used as the PMC search terms and a list ofdifferent enzymes was used for scoring.85To measure heuristic performance, the PP attach-ment heuristics were scored on manual NP and PPannotations.
Thus all reported accuracy numbers re-flect performance of the heuristics alone, isolatedfrom possible chunking errors.
The PP attachmentmodule is, however, designed for input from thechunker and does not handle constructs which thechunker does not provide (e.g.
PP conjunctions andnon-simple parenthetical NPs).5.1 Right AssociationThe application of right association for PPs headedby of, for, and from resulted in correct attachment in96.2% of their occurrences in the development cor-pus.
Because this class of PPs is processed usingthe baseline heuristic without any refinements, it hasno effect on overall system accuracy as compared tooverall baseline accuracy.
However, it does providea clear delineation of the subset of PPs for whichright association is a sufficient and optimal solutionfor attachment.
Given the coverage of this class ofPPs (62.8% of the corpus), it also provides an expla-nation for the relatively high baseline performance.Of PPs are attached with 99% accuracy.All errors involve attachment of PP conjunc-tions, such as ?.
.
.
a search of the literatureand of the GenBank database.
.
.
?, or attachmentto NPs containing non-simple parenthetical state-ments, such as ?The synergy degree (the activi-ties of XynA and cellulase cellulosome mixtures di-vided by the corresponding theoretical activities)of cellulase.
.
.
?.
Sentences of these forms are notaccounted for in the NP chunker, around which thePP attachment system was designed.
Both scenariosreflect shortcomings in the NP grammars, not in theheuristic.For and from PPs are attached with 81% and 87%accuracy, respectively.
The majority of the errorhere corresponds to PPs that should be attached to aVP.
For example, attachment errors occurred both inthe sentence ?.
.
.
this was followed by exoglucanasesliberating cellobiose from these nicks.
.
.
?
and in thesentence ?.
.
.
the reactions were stopped by placingthe microtubes in boiling water for 2 to 3 min.
?5.2 Strong Nominalization AffinityThe heuristic for strong nominalization affinity dealswith only two types of PPs, those headed by theprepositions by and at, both of which occur withrelatively low frequency in the development corpus.Accordingly, the heuristic?s impact on the overall ac-curacy of the system is rather small.
However, it af-fords the largest increase in accuracy for the PPs ofits class.
The heuristic correctly determines attach-ment with 87.5% accuracy.While these PPs account for a small portion ofthe corpus, they play a critical role in describingenzymological information.
Specifically, by PPsare most often used in the description of relation-ships between entities, as in the NP ?degradationof xylan networks between cellulose microbrilsby xylanases?, while at PPs often quantitatively in-dicate the condition under which observed behavioror experiments take place, as in the NP ?Incubationof the enzyme at 40 oC and pH 9.0?.The heuristic provides a strong performance in-crease over the baseline, correctly attaching 95.2%of by PPs in contrast to 23.8% with the baseline.
Infact, only a single error occurred in attaching by PPsin the development corpus and the sentence in ques-tion, given below, appears to be ungrammatical in allof its possible interpretations.The TLC pattern of liberated cellooligosaccharidesby mixtures of XynA cellulosomes and cellulase cel-lulosomes was similar to that caused by cellulasecellulosomes alone.A few other errors (e.g.
typos, omission of words,and grammatically incorrect or ambiguous con-structs) were observed in the development corpus.The extent of such errors and the degree to whichthey affect the results (either negatively or posi-tively) is unknown.
However, such errors are in-escapable and any automated system is susceptibleto their effects.Although no errors in by PP attachment werefound in the development corpus, aside from thegiven problematic sentence, one that would be pro-cessed erroneously by the system was found manu-ally in the GENIA Treebank7.
It is given below todemonstrate a boundary case for this heuristic.. .
.
modulation of activity in B cells by human T-cellleukemia virus type I tax gene.
.
.Here, the system would attach the by PP to the clos-est nominalization activity, when in fact, the cor-7http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA/86rect attachment is to the nominalization modulation.This error scenario is relevant to all of the PPs withnominalization affinity.
A possible solution is toseparate general nominalizations, such as activityand action, from more specific ones, such as mod-ulation, and to favor the latter type whenever possi-ble.
An experiment toward this end, with emphasison in PPs, was performed with promising results.
Itis discussed in the following section.For at PPs, 81.5% accuracy was achieved, as com-pared to 18.5% with the baseline.
The higher de-gree of error with at PPs is indicative of their morevaried usage, requiring more contextual informationfor correct attachment.
An example of typical vari-ation is given in the following two sentences, bothof which contain at PPs that the system incorrectlyattached to the nominalization activity.The amylase exhibited maximal activity at pH 8.7and 55 oC in the presence of 2.5 M NaCl.. .
.
Bacillus sp.
strain IMD370 produced alkaline?-amylases with maxima for activity at pH 10.0.While both sentences report observed conditions formaximal enzyme activity using similar language, theattachment of the at PPs differs between them.
In thefirst sentence, the activity was exhibited at the givenpH and temperature (VP attachment), but in the sec-ond sentence, the enzyme was not necessarily pro-duced at the given pH (NP attachment)?productionmay have occurred under different conditions fromthose reported for the activity maxima.For errors of this nature, it seems that employingsemantic information about the preceding VP andpossibly also the head NP would lead to more ac-curate attachment.
There are, however, other similarerrors where even the addition of such informationdoes not immediately suggest the proper attachment.5.3 Weak Nominalization AffinityThe weak nominalization affinity heuristic covers alarge portion of the development corpus (18.2%).Overall system improvement over baseline attach-ment accuracy can be achieved through successfulattachment of this class of PPs, particularly in andwith PPs, which are the second and fourth most fre-quently used PPs in the development corpus, respec-tively.
Unfortunately, the usage of these PPs is alsoperhaps the hardest to characterize.
The heuristicachieves only 76.2% accuracy.
Though noticeablybetter than right association alone, it is apparent thatthe behavior of this class of PPs cannot be entirelycharacterized by nominalization affinity.Accuracy of in PP attachment increased by 19.2%from the baseline with this heuristic.
A significantsource of attachment error is the problem of mul-tiple nominalizations in the same NP.
As men-tioned above, splitting nominalizations into generaland specific classes may solve this problem.
To ex-plore this conjecture, the most common (particularlywith in PPs) general nominalization, activity, wasignored when searching for nominalization attach-ment points.
This resulted in a 3% increase in theaccuracy for in PPs with no adverse effects on anyof the other PPs with nominalization affinity.Despite further anticipated improvements fromsimilar changes, attachment of in PPs stands to ben-efit the most from additional semantic information inthe form of rules that encode containment semantics(i.e.
which types of things can be contained in othertypes of things).
Possible containment rules existfor the few semantic categories that are already im-plemented; enzymes, for instance, can be containedin organisms, but organisms are rarely contained inanything (though organisms can be said to be con-tained in their species, the relationship is rarely ex-pressed as containment).
Further analysis and moresemantic categories are needed to formulate moregenerally applicable rules.With and as PPs are attached with 83.8% and66.7% accuracy, respectively.
All of the errors forthese PPs involve incorrect attachment to an NPwhen the correct attachment is to a VP.
Presentedbelow are two sentences that provide examples ofthe particular difficulty of resolving these errors.The xylanase A .
.
.
was expressed by E. coliwith a C-terminal His tag from the vector pET-29b.
.
.The pullulanase-type activity was identified asZPU1 and the isoamylase-type activity as SU1.In the first sentence, the with PP describes themethod by which xylanase A was expressed; it doesnot restrict the organism in which the expressionoccurred.
This distinction requires understandingthe semantic relationship between C-terminal Histags, protein (or enzyme) expression, and E. coli.Namely, that His tags (polyhistidine-tags) are amino87acid motifs used for purification of proteins, specif-ically proteins expressed in E. coli.
Such informa-tion could only be obtained from a highly domain-specific knowledge source.
In the second sentence,the verb to which the as PP attaches is omitted.
Ac-cordingly, even if the semantics of verbs were usedto help determine attachment, the system wouldneed to recognize the ellipsis for correct attachment.5.4 ?Effect on?
HeuristicThe attachment accuracy for on PPs is 84.6% usingthe ?effect on?
heuristic, a noticeable improvementover the 57.7% accuracy of the baseline.
The few at-tachment errors for on PPs were varied and revealedno regularities suggesting future improvements.5.5 Unclassified PPsThe remaining PPs, for which no heurisitics wereimplemented, represent 10% of the developmentcorpus.
The system attaches these PPs using rightassociation, with accuracy of 60.7%.
Most frequentare PPs headed by between, which are attached with68.6% accuracy.
A significant improvement is ex-pected from a heuristic that attaches these PPs basedon observations of semantic features in the corpus.Namely, that most of the NPs to which between PPsattach can be categorized as binary relations (e.g.bond, linkage, difference, synergy).
This relationalfeature can be expressed in the head noun or in aprenominal modifier.
In fact, more than 25% of be-tween PPs in the development corpus attach to theNP synergistic effects (or some similar alternative),where between shows affinity toward the adjectivesynergistic, not the head noun effects, which doesnot attract between PP attachment on its own.6 Evaluation on Varied TextsTo assess the general applicability of the heuristicsto varied texts, the system was evaluated on a testcorpus of an additional nine articles8 from PMC.The entire text, except the abstract and introduc-tion, of each article was manually annotated, result-ing in 1603 sentences with 3079 postnominal PPs.The system?s overall attachment accuracy on this8PMC query terms: metabolism, biosynthesis, proteolysis,peptidyltransferase, hexokinase, epimerase, laccase, ligase, de-hydrogenase.test data is 82%, comparable to that for the develop-ment enzymology data.
The accuracy and coverageof each rule for the test data, as contrasted with thedevelopment set, is given in Table 2.
The baselineheuristic achieved an accuracy of 77.5%.
A com-parative performance breakdown by preposition isgiven in Table 1.Overall, changes in the coverage and accuracy ofthe heuristics are much less pronounced than ex-pected from the increase in size and variance of bothsubject matter and writing style between the devel-opment and test data.
The only significant changein rule coverage is a slight increase in the number ofunclassified PPs to 12.3%.
These PPs are also morevaried and the right-associative default heuristic isless applicable (49.5% accuracy in the test data vs.60.7% in the development data).
The largest contri-bution to this additional error stems from a doublingof the frequency of to PPs in the test corpus.
Prelim-inary analysis of the corresponding errors suggeststhat these PPs would be much better suited to thestrong nominalization affinity heuristic than the rightassociation default.
The error incurred over all un-classified PPs accounts for 1.4% of the accuracy dif-ference between the development and test data.
Thelarger number of these PPs also explains the smalleroverall difference between the system and baselineperformance.For PPs were observed to have more frequent VPattachment in the test data.
In particular, for PPswith object NPs specifying a duration (or other mea-surement), as exemplified below, attach almost ex-clusively to VPs and nominalizations.The sample was spun in a microfuge for 10 min.
.
.This behavior is also apparent in the developmentdata, though in much smaller numbers.
Applying thestrong nominalization affinity heuristic to these PPsresulted in an increase of for PP attachment accuracyin the test corpus to 75.8% and an overall increase inaccuracy of 1.0%.A similar pattern was observed for at PPs, wherethe pattern <CHEMICAL> at <CONCENTRATION> ac-counts for 25.6% of all at PP attachment errors andthe majority of the performance decrease for thestrong nominalization affinity heuristic between thetwo data sets.
The remainder of the performance de-crease for this heuristic is attributed to gaps in the88UMLS SPECIALIST Lexicon.
For instance, the un-derlined head nouns in the following examples arenot marked as nominalizations in the lexicon.The double mutant inhibited misreading by paro-momycin .
.
.. .
.
the formation of stalk cells by culB?
pkaR?cells.
.
.In our test corpus, these errors were only apparentin by PP attachment, but can potentially affect allnominalization-based attachment.Aside from the cases mentioned in this section,attachment trends in the test corpus are quite similarto those observed in the development corpus.
Giventhe diversity in the test data, both in terms of subjectmatter (between articles) and writing style (betweensections), the results suggest the suitability of ourheuristics to proteomics texts in general.7 ConclusionThe next step for BioNLP is to process the full textof scientific articles, where heavy NPs with poten-tially long chains of PP attachments are frequent.This study has investigated the attachment behav-ior of postnominal PPs in enzyme-related texts andevaluated a small set of simple attachment heuris-tics on a test set of over 3000 PPs from a collec-tion of more varied texts in proteomics.
The heuris-tics cover all prepositions, even infrequent ones,that nonetheless convey important information.
Thisapproach requires only NP chunked input and anominalization dictionary, all readily available fromon-line resources.
The heuristics are thus usefulfor shallow approaches and their accuracy of 82%puts them in a position to reliably improve both,proper recognition of entities and their propertiesand bottom-up recognition of relationships betweenentities expressed in nominalizations.ReferencesSabine Bergler, Rene?
Witte, Michelle Khalife?, ZhuoyanLi, and Frank Rudzicz.
2003.
Using knowledge-poor coreference resolution for text summarization.
InOn-line Proceedings of the Workshop on Text Summa-rization, Document Understanding Conference (DUC2003), Edmonton, Canada, May.Sabine Bergler, Jonathan Schuman, Julien Dubuc, andAlexandr Lebedev.
2006.
BioKI:Enzymes - anadaptable system to locate low-frequency informa-tion in full-text proteomics articles.
Poster abstractin Proceedings of the HLT-NAACL Workshop onLinking Natural Language Processing and Biology(BioNLP?06), New York, NY, June.Eric Brill and Philip Resnik.
1994.
A rule-based ap-proach to prepositional phrase attachment disambigua-tion.
In Proceedings of the 15th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics (COLING-94).Kevin Bretonnel Cohen, Lynne Fox, Philip V. Ogren, andLawrence Hunter.
2005.
Corpus design for biomed-ical natural language processing.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL-ISMB Workshop on Linking Biological Lit-erature, Ontologies and Databases (BioLINK), pages38?45, Detroit, MI, June.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.David P.A.
Corney, Bernard F. Buxton, William B. Lang-don, and David T. Jones.
2004.
BioRAT: extractingbiological information from full-length papers.
Bioin-formatics, 20(17):3206?3213.Udo Hahn, Martin Romacker, and Stefan Schulz.
2002.Creating knowledge repositories from biomedical re-ports: the MEDSYNDIKATE text mining system.
InProceedings of the 7th Pacific Symposium on Biocom-puting, pages 338?49, Hawaii, USA.John Kimball.
1973.
Seven principles of surface struc-ture parsing in natural language.
Cognition, 2:15?47.Gondy Leroy and Hsinchun Chen.
2002.
Fillingpreposition-based templates to capture informationfrom medical abstracts.
In Proceedings of the 7thPacific Symposium on Biocomputing, pages 350?361,Hawaii, USA.Gondy Leroy, Hsinchun Chen, and Jesse D. Martinez.2003.
A shallow parser based on closed-class wordsto capture relations in biomedical text.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, 36:145?158, June.James Pustejovsky, Jose?
Castan?o, Roser Sauri, AnnaRumshisky, Jason Zhang, and Wei Luo.
2002.
Med-stract: Creating large-scale information servers forbiomedical libraries.
In ACL 2002 Workshop on Nat-ural Language Processing in the Biomedical Domain,Philadelphia, PA.Hagit Shatkay and Ronen Feldman.
2003.
Mining thebiomedical literature in the genomic era: An overview.Journal of Computational Biology, 10(6):821?855.Martin Volk.
2001.
Exploiting the WWW as a corpusto resolve PP attachment ambiguities.
In Paul Rayson,Andrew Wilson, Tony McEnery, Andrew Hardie, andShereen Khoja, editors, Proceedings of Corpus Lin-guistics, pages 601?606, Lancaster, England, March.89
