Multilingual versus Monolingual WSDLucia SpeciaICMC ?
University of S?o PauloAv.
do Trabalhador S?o-Carlense, 400S?o Carlos, 13560-970, Brazillspecia@icmc.usp.brMaria das Gra?asVolpe NunesICMC ?
University of S?o PauloAv.
do Trabalhador S?o-Carlense, 400S?o Carlos, 13560-970, Brazilgracan@icmc.usp.brMark StevensonComputer Science ?
University of SheffieldRegent Court, 211 Portobello StreetSheffield, S1 4DP, UKM.Stevenson@dcs.shef.ac.ukGabriela Castelo Branco RibeiroDL - Pontificial Catholic University - RioR.
Marqu?s de S?o Vicente, 225 - G?veaRio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
CEP: 22.453-900gabrielacastelo@globo.comAbstractAlthough it is generally agreed that WordSense Disambiguation (WSD) is an ap-plication dependent task, the great major-ity of the efforts has aimed at the devel-opment of WSD systems without consid-ering their application.
We argue that thisstrategy is not appropriate, since someaspects, such as the sense repository andthe disambiguation process itself, varyaccording to the application.
Taking Ma-chine Translation (MT) as applicationand focusing on the sense repository, wepresent evidence for this argument by ex-amining WSD in English-Portuguese MTof eight sample verbs.
By showing thatthe traditional monolingual WSD strate-gies are not suitable for multilingual ap-plications, we intend to motivate the de-velopment of WSD methods for particu-lar applications.1 IntroductionWord Sense Disambiguation (WSD) is con-cerned with the choice of the most appropriatesense of an ambiguous word given its context.The applications for which WSD has beenthought to be helpful include Information Re-trieval, Information Extraction, and MachineTranslation (MT) (Ide and Ver?nis, 1998).
Theusefulness of WSD for MT, particularly, hasbeen recently subject of debate, with conflictingresults.
Vickrey et al (2005), e.g., show that theinclusion of a WSD module significantly im-proves the performance of their statistical MTsystem.
Conversely, Carpuat and Wu (2005)found that WSD does not yield significantly bet-ter translation quality than a statistical MT sys-tem alone.
In this latter work, however, the WSDmodule was not specifically designed for MT: itis based on the use of monolingual methods toidentify the source language senses, which arethen mapped into the target language transla-tions.In fact, although it has been agreed that WSDis more useful when it is meant for a specific ap-plication (Wilks and Stevenson, 1998; Kilgarriff,1997; Resnik and Yarowsky, 1997), little hasbeen done on the development of WSD modulesspecifically for particular applications.
WSDmodels in general are application independent,and focus on monolingual contexts, particularlyEnglish.Approaches to WSD as an application-independent task usually apply standardisedsense repositories, such as WordNet (Miller,1990).
For multilingual applications, a popularapproach is to carry out monolingual WSD andthen map the source language senses into the cor-responding target word translations (Carpuat andWu, 2005; Montoyo et al, 2002).
Although thisstrategy can yield reasonable results for certainpairs of languages, especially those which have acommon sense repository, such as EuroWordNet(Vossen, 1998), mapping senses between lan-guages is a very complex issue (cf.
Section 2).33We believe that WSD is an intermediate, applica-tion dependent task, and thus WSD modules forparticular applications must be developed fol-lowing the requirements of such applications.Many key factors of the process are application-dependent.
The main factor is the sense inven-tory.
As emphasized by Kilgarriff (1997), nosense inventory is suitable for all applications.Even for the same application there is often littleconsensus about the most appropriate sense in-ventory.
For example, the use of WordNet, al-though very frequent, has been criticized due tocharacteristics such as the level sense granularityand the abstract criteria used for the sense dis-tinctions in that resource (e.g., Palmer 1998).
Inparticular, it is generally agreed that the granular-ity in WordNet is too refined for MT.In addition to requiring different sense inven-tories (Hutchins and Somers, 1992), the disam-biguation process itself often can be varied ac-cording to the application.
For instance, in mono-lingual WSD, the main information source is thecontext of the ambiguous word, that is, the sur-rounding words in a sentence or paragraph.
ForMT purposes, the context can be also that of thetranslation in the target language, i.e., wordswhich have been already translated.In this paper we focus on the differences in thesense inventory, contrasting the WordNet inven-tory for English disambiguation, which was cre-ated according to psycholinguistics principles,with the Portuguese translations assigned to a setof eight verbs in a corpus, simulating MT as aComputational Linguistics application.We show that the relation between the numberof senses and translations is not a one-to-one,and that it is not only a matter of the level of re-finement of WordNet.
The number of transla-tions can be either smaller or larger, i.e., eithertwo or more senses can be translated as the sameword, or the same sense can be translated usingdifferent words.
With that, we present evidencethat employing a monolingual WSD method forthe task of MT is not appropriate, since monolin-gual information offers little help to multilingualdisambiguation.
In other words, we argue thatmultilingual WSD is different from monolingualWSD, and thus requires specific strategies.
Westart by presenting approaches that show cognateresults for different pairs of languages, and alsoapproaches developed with the reverse goal ofusing multilingual information to help monolin-gual WSD (Section 2).
We then present our ex-periments (Sections 3 and 4) and their results(Section 5).2 Related workRecently, others have also investigated the dif-ferences between sense repositories for monolin-gual and multilingual WSD.
Chatterjee et al(2005), e.g., investigated the ambiguity in thetranslation of the English verb ?to have?
intoHindi.
11 translation patterns were identified forthe 19 senses of the verb, according to the vari-ous target syntactic structures and/or targetwords for the verb.
They argued that differencesin both these aspects do not depend only on thesense of the verb.
Out of the 14 senses analyzed,six had 2-5 different translations each.Bentivogli et al (2004) proposed an approachto create an Italian sense tagged corpus (Mul-tiSemCor) based on the transference of the anno-tations from the English sense tagged corpusSemCor (Miller et al, 1994), by means of word-alignment methods.
A gold standard corpus wascreated by manually transferring senses in Sem-Cor to the Italian words in a translated version ofthat corpus.
From a total of 1,054 English words,155 annotations were considered non-transferable to their corresponding Italian words,mainly due to the lack of synonymy at the lexicallevel.Mih?ltz (2005) manually mapped senses fromthe English in a sense tagged corpus to Hungar-ian translations, in order to carry out WSD be-tween these languages.
Out of 43 ambiguousnouns, 38 had all or most of their English sensesmapped into the same Hungarian translation.Some senses of the remaining nouns had to besplit into different Hungarian translations.
Onaverage, the sense mapping decreased the ambi-guity from 3.97 English senses to 2.49 Hungar-ian translations.As we intend to show with this work, differ-ences like those mentioned above in the senseinventories make it inappropriate to use mono-lingual WSD strategies for multilingual disam-biguation.
Nevertheless, some approaches havesuccessfully employed multilingual information,especially parallel corpora, to support monolin-gual WSD.
They are motivated by the argumentthat the senses of a word should be determinedbased on the distinctions that are lexicalized in asecond language (Resnik and Yarowsky, 1997).In general, the assumptions behind these ap-proaches are the following:(1) If a source language word is translated dif-ferently into a second language, it might be am-biguous and the different translations can indi-cate the senses in the source language.34(2) If two distinct source language words aretranslated as the same word into a second lan-guage, it often indicates that the two are beingused with similar senses.Ide (1999), for example, analyzes translationsof English words into four different languages, inorder to check if the different senses of an Eng-lish word are lexicalized by different words in allthe other languages.
A parallel aligned corpus isused and the translated senses are mapped intoWordNet senses.
She uses this information todetermine a set of monolingual sense distinctionsthat is potentially useful for NLP applications.
Insubsequent work (Ide et al, 2002), seven lan-guages and clustering techniques are employedto create sense groups based on the translations.Diab and Resnik (2002) use multilingual in-formation to create an English sense tagged cor-pus to train a monolingual WSD approach.
AnEnglish sense inventory and a parallel corpusautomatically produced by an MT system areemployed.
Sentence and word alignment systemsare used to assign the word correspondences be-tween the two languages.
After grouping all thewords that correspond to translations of a singleword in the target language, all their possiblesenses are considered as candidates.
The sensethat maximizes the semantic similarity of theword with the others in the group is chosen.Similarly, Ng et al (2003) employ English-Chinese parallel word aligned corpora to identifya repository of senses for English.
The Englishword senses are manually defined, based on theWordNet senses, and then revised in the light ofthe Chinese translations.
For example, if two oc-currences of a word with two different senses inWordNet are translated into the same Chineseword, they will be considered to have the sameEnglish sense.In general, these approaches rely on the twopreviously mentioned assumptions about the in-teraction between translations and word senses.Although these assumptions can be useful whenusing cross-language information as an approxi-mation to monolingual disambiguation, they arenot very helpful in the opposite direction, i.e.,using monolingual information for cross-language disambiguation, as we will show inSection 4.3 Experimental settingWe focused our experiments on verbs, whichrepresent difficult cases for WSD.
In particular,we experimented with five frequent and highlyambiguous verbs identified as problematic forMT systems in a previous study (Specia, 2005):?to come?, ?to get?, ?to give?, ?to look?, and ?tomake?
; and other three frequent verbs that arenot so ambiguous: ?to ask?, ?to live?, and ?totell?.
The inclusion of the additional verbs allowsus to analyze the effect of the ambiguity level inthe experiment.
These verbs will then be trans-lated into Portuguese so that the resulting transla-tions can be contrasted to the English senses.3.1 Corpus selectionWe collected all the sentences containing one ofthe eight verbs and their corresponding phrasalverbs from SemCor, Senseval-2 and Senseval-3corpora1.
These corpora were chosen becausethey are both widely used and easily available.
Ineach of these corpora, ambiguous words are an-notated with WordNet 2.0 senses.
Occurrenceswhich did not identify a unique sense were notused.
The numbers of sentences selected for eachverb and its phrasal verbs are shown in Table 1.Verb # VerbOccurrences# Phrasal VerbOccurrencesask 414 8come 674 330get 683 267give 740 79live 242 5look 370 213make 1463 105tell 509 3Table 1.
Number of verbs and phrasal verbs ex-tracted from SemCor and Senseval corporaIt is worth mentioning that the phrasal verbs in-clude simple verb-particle constructions, such as?give up?, and more complex multi-word expres-sions, e.g., ?get in touch with?, ?make up for?,?come to mind?, etc.In order to avoid biasing the experiment due topossible misunderstandings of the verb uses, andto make the experiment feasible, with a reason-able number of occurrences to be analyzed, weselected a subset of the total number of sentencesin Table 1, which were distributed among fiveprofessional English-Portuguese translators (T1,T2, T3, T4, T5), according to the following crite-ria:- The meaning of the verb/phrasal verb in thecontext of the sentence should be understandableand non-ambiguous (for human translators).1Available at http://www.cs.unt.edu/~rada/downloads.html.35- The experiment should be the most compre-hensive possible, with the largest possible num-ber of senses for each verb/phrasal.- Each translator should be given two occur-rences (when available) of all the distinct sensesof each verb/phrasal verb, in order to make itpossible to contrast different uses of the verb.- The translators should not be given any in-formation other than the sentence to select thetranslation.To meet these criteria, a professional translator,who was not involved in the translation task,post-processed the selected sentences, filteringthem according to the criteria specified above.Due to both the scarce number of occurrences ofeach phrasal verb sense and the large number ofdifferent phrasal verbs for certain verbs, the post-selection of phrasal verbs was different from thepost-selection of verbs.
In the case of verbs, thetranslator scanned the sentences in order to get10 distinct occurrences of each sense (two foreach translator), eliminating those sentenceswhich were too complex to understand or usedthe verb in an ambiguous way.
This process didnot eliminate any senses, and thus did not reducethe coverage of the experiment.
When there werefewer than 10 occurrences of a given sense, sen-tences were repeated among translators to guar-antee that each translator would be given exam-ples of all the senses of the verb.
For instance, ifa sense had only four occurrences, the first twooccurrences were given to T1, T3 and T5, whilethe other two occurrences were given to T2 andT4.
If a sense occurred only once for a verb, itwas repeated for all five translators.For phrasal verbs, the same process was usedto eliminate the complex and ambiguous sen-tences.
Two occurrences (when available) ofeach sense of a phrasal verb were then selected.Due to the large number of different phrasalverbs for certain verbs, they were divided amongtranslators, so that each translator was given twooccurrences of only some phrasal verbs of eachverb.
Sentences were distributed so that all trans-lators had a similar number of cases, as shown inTable 2.In order to avoid biasing the translations ac-cording to the English senses, the original senseannotations were not shown to the translators andthe sentences for each of the verbs, together withtheir phrasal verbs, were randomly ordered.Additionally, we gave the same set of selectedsentences to another group of five translators, sothat we could analyze the reliability of the ex-periment by investigating the agreement betweenthe groups of translators on the same data.TranslatorVerb# T1 # T2 # T3 # T4 # T5ask 13 13 13 10 10come 53 52 52 51 47get 59 59 56 59 57give 46 50 48 47 48live 11 11 11 16 16look 15 19 17 19 14make 47 45 44 46 41tell 14 12 12 15 10Total  258 261 253 263 243Table 2.
Number of selected sentences and itsdistribution among the five translators3.2 English senses and Portuguese transla-tionsAs mentioned above, the corpora used are taggedwith WordNet senses.
Although this may not bethe optimal sense inventory for many purposes, itis the best option in terms of availability andcomprehensiveness.
Moreover, it is the most fre-quently used repository for monolingual WSDsystems, making it possible to generalize, to acertain level, our results to most of the monolin-gual work.
The number of senses for the eightselected verbs (and their phrasal verbs) inWordNet 2.0, along with the number of theirpossible translations in bilingual dictionaries2, isshown in Table 3.Verb # Senses # Translationsask  12 16come 108 226get  147 242give  92 128live  15 15look  34 63make 96 239tell  12 28Table 3.
Verbs, possible senses and translationsAs we can see, the number of possible transla-tions is different from the number of possiblesenses, which already shows that there is not aone-to-one correspondence between senses andtranslations (although there is a high correlationbetween the number of senses and translations:Pearson?s Correlation = 0.955).
In general, thenumber of possible translations is greater than2For example, DIC Pratico Michaelis?, version 5.1.36the number of possible senses, in part becausesynonyms are considered as different transla-tions.
As we will show in Section 5 (Table 4), weeliminate the use of synonyms as possible trans-lations.
Moreover, we are dealing with a limitedset of possible senses, provided by the SemCorand Senseval data.
As a consequence, the num-ber of translations pointed out by the humantranslators for our corpus will be considerablysmaller than the total number of possible transla-tions.4 Contrasting senses and translationsIn order to contrast the English senses with thePortuguese translations, we submitted the se-lected sentences (cf.
Section 3.1) to two groupsof five translators (T1, T2, T3, T4, and T5), allnative speakers of Portuguese.
We asked thetranslators to assign the appropriate translation toeach of the verb occurrences, which we wouldthen compare to the original English senses.They were not told what their translations weregoing to be used for.The translators were provided with entire sen-tences, but for practical reasons they were askedto translate only the verb and were allowed touse any bilingual resource to search for possibletranslations, if needed.
They were asked to avoidconsidering synonyms as different translations.The following procedure was defined to ana-lyze the results returned by the translators, foreach verb and its phrasal verbs separately:1) We grouped all the occurrences of an Eng-lish sense and looked at all the translations usedby the translators in order to identify synonyms(in those specific uses), using a dictionary ofPortuguese synonyms.
Synonyms were consid-ered as unique translations.2) We then analyzed the sentences which hadbeen given to multiple translators of the samegroup (when there were not enough occurrencesof certain senses, as mentioned in Section 3.1), inorder to identify a single translation for the oc-currence and eliminate redundancies.
The trans-lation chosen was the one pointed out by the ma-jority of the translators.
When it was not possibleto elect only one translation, the n equally mostused were kept, and thus the sentence was re-peated n times.3) Finally, we examined the relation betweensenses and translations, focusing on two cases:(1) if a sense had only one or many translations;and (2) if a translation referred to only one ormany senses, i.e., whether the sense was sharedby many translations.
We placed each sense intotwo of the following categories, explained be-low: (a) or (b), mutually exclusive, representingthe first case; and (c), (d) or (e), also mutuallyexclusive, representing the second case.
(a) 1 sense  1 translation: all the occur-rences of the same sense being translated asthe same Portuguese word.
For example, ?toask?, in the sense of ?inquire, enquire?, is al-ways translated as ?perguntar?.
(b) 1 sense  n translations: different oc-currences of the same sense being translated asdifferent, non-synonyms, Portuguese words.For example, ?to look?, in the sense of ?per-ceive with attention; direct one's gaze to-wards?
can be translated as ?olhar?, ?assistir?,and ?voltar-se?.
(c) n senses  1 translation (ambiguous):Different senses of a word being translated asthe same Portuguese word, which encom-passes all the English senses.
For example,?make?, in the sense of ?engage in?, ?create?,and ?give certain properties to something?, istranslated as ?fazer?, which carries the threesenses.
(d) n senses  1 translation (non-ambiguous): different senses of a word beingtranslated using the same Portuguese word,which has only one sense.
For example, ?takeadvantage?
in both the senses of ?draw advan-tages from?
and ?make excessive use of?, be-ing translated as ?aproveitar-se?.
(e) n senses  n translations: differentsenses of a word being translated as differentPortuguese words.
For example, the ?movefast?
and ?carry out a process or program?senses of the verb ?run?
being translated re-spectively as ?correr?
and ?executar?.Items (a) and (e) represent cases where multilin-gual ambiguity only reflects the monolingualone, that is, to all the occurrences of every senseof an English word corresponds a specific Portu-guese translation.
On the other hand, items (b),(c) and (d) provide evidence that multilingualambiguity is different from monolingual ambigu-ity.
Item (b) means that different criteria areneeded for the disambiguation, as ambiguityarises only during the translation, due to specificprinciples used to distinguish senses in Portu-guese.
Items (c) and (d) mean that disambigua-tion is not necessary, as either the Portuguese37translation is also ambiguous, embracing thesame senses of the English word, or Portuguesehas a less refined sense distinction.5 Results and discussionTable 4 presents the number of different sen-tences analyzed for each of the verbs (aftergrouping and eliminating the repeated sen-tences), the English (E) senses and (non-synonyms) Portuguese (P) translations in ourcorpus, followed by the percentage of occur-rences of each of the categories outlined in Sec-tion 4 (a ?
e) with respect to the number ofsenses (# Senses) for that verb.
Items (c) and (d)were grouped, since for practical purposes it isnot important to tell if the P word translating thevarious E senses encompasses one or manysenses.
For items (b) and (c&d) we also presentthe average of P translations per E sense ((b) av-erage), and the average of E senses per P transla-tion, respectively ((c&d) average).We divided the analysis of these results ac-cording to our two cases (cf.
Section 4): the firstcovers items (c&d) and (e) (light grey in Table4), while the second covers items (a) and (b)(dark grey in Table 4).1) Items (c), (d) and (e): n senses ?
?
transla-tion(s)The number of senses in the corpus is almostalways greater than the number of translations,suggesting that the level of sense distinctions inWordNet can be too fine-grained for translationapplications The numbers of senses and transla-tions are in an opposite relation comparing to theone shown in Table 3, where the number of pos-sible translations was larger than the number ofpossible senses.
This shows that indeed many ofthe possible translations are synonyms.On average, the level of ambiguity decreasedfrom 40.3 (possible senses) to 24.4 (possibletranslations), if the monolingual and multilingualambiguity are compared in the corpus.
If we con-sider the five most ambiguous verbs, the level ofambiguity decreased from 58.8 to 35.
For theother three less ambiguous verbs, the level ofambiguity decreased from 9.3 to 6.7.Column % (c&d) shows the percentage ofsenses, with respect to the total shown in thethird column (# Senses), which share translationswith other senses.
A shared translation meansthat several senses of the verb have the sametranslation.
(c&d) average indicates the averagenumber of E senses per P translation, for thosecases where translations are shared.
For all verbs,on average translations cover more than twosenses.
The level of variation in the number ofshared translations among senses is high, e.g.,from 2 (translation = ?organizar?)
to 27 (transla-tion = ?dar?)
for the verb ?to give?.
Contrastingthe percentage of senses that share translations,in % (c), with the percentages in % (d), whichrefers to the senses for which translations are notshared, we can see that the great majority ofsenses have translations in common with othersenses, and thus the disambiguation among thesesenses would not be necessary in most of thecases.
In fact, it could result in errors, since anincorrect sense could be chosen.2) Items (a) and (b): 1 sense ?
?
translation(s)As previously mentioned, the differences in thesense inventory for monolingual and multilingualWSD are not only due to the fact that sense dis-tinctions in WordNet are too refined.
That wouldonly indicate that using monolingual WSD formultilingual purposes implies unnecessary work.However, we consider that the most importantproblem is the one evidenced by item (b) in thesixth column in Table 4.
For all the verbs except?to ask?
(the least ambiguous), there were casesin which different occurrences of the same sensewere translated into different, non-synonymswords.
Although the proportion of senses withonly one translation is greater, as shown by item(a) in the fifth column, the percentage of senseswith more than one translation is impressive,especially for the five most ambiguous verbs.
Inface of this, the lack of disambiguation of a wordduring translation based on the fact that the wordis not ambiguous in the source language can re-sult in very serious translation errors whenmonolingual methods are employed for multilin-gual WSD.
Therefore, this also shows that, forthese verbs, sense inventories that are specific tothe translation between the pair of languages un-der consideration would be more appropriate toachieve effective WSD.5.1 Agreement between translatorsIn an attempt to quantify the agreement betweenthe two groups of translators, we computed theKappa coefficient for annotation tasks, as de-fined by Carletta (1996).
Kappa was calculatedseparately for our two areas of inquiry, i.e., cases(1) and (2) discussed in Section 5.In the experiment referring to case (1), groupswere considered to agree about a sense of a verbif they both judged that the translation of such38Verb # Sen-tences# Senses # Transla-tions% (a)  % (b) (b) av-erage%(c&d)(c&d) av-erage% (e)ask 83 8 3 100 0 0 87.5 3.5 12.5come 202 68 42 62 38 3.1 73.2 6.3 26.8get 226 90 61 70 30 2.6 61.1 3.4 38.9give 241 57 12 48.7 51.3 3.3 84.2 6.3 15.8live 55 10 7 83.3 16.7 3.0 70 2.7 30look 82 26 18 63.2 36.8 2.4 84.6 2.7 15.4make 225 53 42 51.4 48.6 2.9 77.4 4.1 22.6tell 73 10 10 37.5 62.5 2.8 60 4.0 40Table 4.
Results of the procedure contrasting senses and translationsverb was or was not shared by other senses.
Forexample, both groups agreed that the word?fazer?
should be used to translate occurrencesof many senses of the verb ?to make?, including?engage in?, ?give certain properties to some-thing?, and ?make or cause to be or to become?.On the other hand, the groups disagreed aboutthe sense ?go off or discharge?
of the phrasalverb ?to go off?
: the first group found that thetranslation of that sense, ?disparar?, did not referto any other sense, while the second group usedthat word to translate also the sense ?be dis-charged or activated?
of the same phrasal verb.In the experiment with case (2), groups wereconsidered to agree about a sense if they bothjudged that the sense had or had not more thanone translation.
For example, both groups agreedthat the sense ?reach a state, relation, or condi-tion?
of the verb ?to come?
should be translatedby more than one Portuguese word, including?terminar?, ?vir?, and ?chegar?.
They alsoagreed that the sense ?move toward, travel to-ward something or somebody or approach some-thing or somebody?
of the same verb had onlyone translation, namely ?vir?.The average Kappa coefficient obtained was0.66 for item (1), and 0.65 for item (2).
There isnot a reference value for this particular annota-tion task (translation annotation), but the levelsof agreement pointed by Kappa here can be con-sidered satisfactory.
The agreement levels areclose to the coefficient suggested by Carletta asindicative of a good agreement level for dis-course annotation (0.67), and which has beenadopted as a cutoff in Computational Linguistics.6 Conclusions and future workWe presented experiments contrasting monolin-gual and multilingual WSD.
It was found that, infact, monolingual and multilingual disambigua-tion differ in many respects, particularly thesense repository, and therefore specific strategiescould be more appropriate to achieve effectivemultilingual WSD.
We investigated the differ-ences in sense repositories considering English-Portuguese translation, using a set of eight am-biguous verbs collected from sentences in Sem-Cor and Senseval corpora.
The English sensetags given by WordNet were compared to thePortuguese translations assigned by two groupsof five human translators.Results corroborate previous cognate work,showing that there is not a one-to-one mappingbetween the English senses and their translations(to Portuguese, in this study).
In most of thecases, many different senses were translated intothe same Portuguese word.
In many other cases,different, non-synonymous, words were neces-sary to translate occurrences of the same sense ofthe source language, showing that differencesbetween monolingual and multilingual WSD arenot only a matter of the highly refined sense dis-tinction criterion adopted in WordNet.
Therefore,these results reinforce our argument that apply-ing monolingual methods for multilingual WSDcan either imply unnecessary work, or result indisambiguation errors.As future work we plan to carry out further in-vestigation of the differences between monolin-gual and multilingual WSD contrasting the Eng-lish senses and translations into other languages,and analyzing other grammatical categories, par-ticularly nouns.ReferencesBentivogli, L., Forner, P., and Pianta, E. (2004).Evaluating Cross-Language Annotation Trans-fer in the MultiSemCor Corpus.
COLING-2004, Geneva, pp.
364-370.Carletta, J.
(1996).
Assessing agreement on clas-sification tasks: the kappa statistic.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 22(2), pp.
249-254.Carpuat, M. and Wu, D. (2005).
Word sense dis-ambiguation vs. statistical machine translation.43rd ACL Meeting, Ann Arbor, pp.
387?394.39Chatterjee, N., Goyal, S., and Naithani, A.(2005).
Pattern Ambiguity and its Resolutionin English to Hindi Translation.
RANLP-2005,Borovets, pp.
152-156.Diab, M. and Resnik, P. (2002).
An Unsuper-vised Method for Word Sense Tagging usingParallel Corpora.
40th ACL Meeting, Philadel-phia.Hutchins, W.J.
and Somers H.L.
(1992) An In-troduction to Machine Translation.
AcademicPress, Great Britain.Ide, N. and V?ronis, J.
(1998).
Word Sense Dis-ambiguation: The State of the Art.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 24 (1).Ide, N. (1999).
Parallel Translations as SenseDiscriminators.
SIGLEX99 Workshop: Stan-dardizing Lexical Resources, Maryland, pp.52-61.Ide, N., Erjavec, T., and Tufi, D. (2002).
SenseDiscrimination with Parallel Corpora.
ACL'02Workshop on Word Sense Disambiguation:Recent Successes and Future Directions,Philadelphia, pp.
54-60.Kilgarriff, A.
(1997).
I Don't Believe in WordSenses.
Computers and the Humanities, 31(2):91-113.Mih?ltz, M. (2005).
Towards A Hybrid Ap-proach to Word-Sense Disambiguation in Ma-chine Translation.
RANLP-2005 Workshop:Modern Approaches in Translation Technolo-gies, Borovets.Miller, G.A., Beckwith, R.T., Fellbaum, C.D.,Gross, D., and Miller, K. (1990).
WordNet:An On-line Lexical Database.
InternationalJournal of Lexicography, 3(4):235-244.Miller, G.A., Chorodow, M., Landes, S., Lea-cock, C., and Thomas, R.G.
(1994).
Using aSemantic Concordancer for Sense Identifica-tion.
ARPA Human Language TechnologyWorkshop - ACL, Washington, pp.
240-243.Montoyo, A., Romero, R., Vazquez, S., Calle,M., and Soler, S. (2002).
The Role of WSDfor Multilingual Natural Language Applica-tions.
TSD?2002, Czech Republic, pp.
41-48.Ng, H.T., Wang, B., and Chan, Y.S.
(2003).
Ex-ploiting Parallel Texts for Word Sense Disam-biguation: An Empirical Study.
41st ACLMeeting, Sapporo, pp.
455-462.Palmer, M. (1998).
Are WordNet sense distinc-tions appropriate for computational lexicons?Senseval, Siglex98, Brighton.Resnik, P. and Yarowsky, D. (1997).
A Perspec-tive on Word Sense Disambiguation Methodsand their Evaluating.
ACL-SIGLEX WorkshopTagging Texts with Lexical Semantics: Why,What and How?, Washington.Specia, L. (2005).
A Hybrid Model for WordSense Disambiguation in English-PortugueseMachine Translation.
8th CLUK, Manchester,pp.
71-78.Vickrey, D., Biewald, L., Teyssier, M., andKoller, D. (2005).
Word-Sense Disambigua-tion for Machine Translation.
HLT/EMNLP,Vancouver.Vossen, P. (1998).
EuroWordNet: Building aMultilingual Database with WordNets forEuropean Languages.
The ELRA Newsletter,3(1).Wilks, Y. and Stevenson, M. (1998).
The Gram-mar of Sense: Using Part-of-speech Tags as aFirst Step in Semantic Disambiguation.
Natu-ral Language Engineering, 4(1):1-9.40
