Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Constraints and Language Processing (CSLP-06), pages 25?32,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsPragmatic Constraints on Semantic PresuppositionYafa Al-RahebNational Centre for Language TechnologySchool of ComputingDublin City University, Irelandyafa.alraheb@gmail.comAbstractThe literature investigating the notionof presupposition in Discourse Represen-tation Theory (DRT) has mainly beendubbed as being semantic (Simons 2003).This paper investigates the linguistic ap-plication of pragmatic-based constraints tothe ?semantic?
notion of presupposition inDRT.
By applying pragmatic-based con-straints to presuppositional phenomenon,we aim to defend DRT against the accu-sation that DRT?s interpretation of presup-positional phenomenon is essentially ?se-mantic?
and push this interpretation fur-ther towards the pragmatic side of the se-mantic/pragmatic interface.11 IntroductionDevising an appropriate theory of presuppositionhas been one of the main issues in semantics, prag-matics and most recently computational linguis-tics.
Indeed, many theorists have argued exten-sively about the definition that captures the mean-ing of presupposition and whether presuppositionsare a property of the utterance or of the speaker.Developments in dynamic semantics, as opposedto static semantics, resulting in DRT, have ledto a framework suitable for the representation oflinguistic phenomenon.
Some of DRT?s princi-pal concerns are with finding the right truth con-ditions and interpretation for referential expres-sions, specifically anaphora.
This is relevant forfurther investigation of ?pragmatic?
presuppositionbecause it has in fact been proposed by van der1I gratefully acknowledge support from Science Founda-tion Ireland grant 04/IN/I527.Sandt and Geurts (1991) that it is anaphora thatlies at the basis of presupposition.However, Simons (2003) has recently notedsome pragmatic limitations in the present state ofDRT.
She refers in the following quotation to ?dy-namic semantics?, the field taken to include DRT.Dynamic semantics does not attemptto understand presupposition and pre-suppositional constraints in terms ofthe speaker?s beliefs and intentions, orto root presuppositional constraints interms of the broad goals of communica-tors (Simons 2003: 27).Indeed, Simons concludes that DRT is a the-ory of semantic and not pragmatic presupposition(2003).
The criticism that DRT is only semanticis not wholly justified.
While DRT stems fromthe need for appropriate semantic representationof discourse, DRT does recognize the importanceof context in representing referents in discourse,which is generally taken to mark a pragmatic per-spective on presupposition.
Additionally, theorieswithin DRT, such as the Binding Theory (Geurts1999), have attempted to make DRT more prag-matic; in particular, Presupposition as AnaphoraTheory?s construction process of presupposition(van der Sandt and Geurts 1991).
However, whilethis paper aims to show that DRT is not entirelydevoid of pragmatics, it argues that DRT is in needof a more pragmatic treatment of presupposition,which (a) pays more attention to the beliefs andintentions of the speaker and the hearer and theirrelation to presupposition and (b) makes presup-positional constraints more precise.
Further, otherscholars have criticized DRT for being essentiallytruthconditional.
Werth, for example, claims thatDRT is essentially only about truthconditionality:25[DRT?s] goal is truth-conditionality andits models are minimal worlds inhabitedby predicates and variables... it does notmodel human understanding: there is noplace in it for participant roles, setting,background knowledge, purposes, eveninferences (Werth 1999: 65).Again, this criticism is not entirely just.
To addressthe aforementioned pragmatic limitations of DRT,the aim of this paper is to address the problemof insightfully capturing pragmatic constraints onpresuppositional phenomenon within the frame-work of DRT.
To achieve this, a pragmatically-constrained definition of presupposition is at-tempted.
This is followed by setting some prag-matic constraints on agents?
conception of presup-positional phrases based on the agents?
roles inconversation.
An example of how these pragmaticconstraints operate in DRT is then examined.
Fur-thermore, an overall structure computationally en-compassing these pragmatic constraints in DRT isdescribed.2 Pragmatic-based PresuppositionIn linguistics the treatment of presupposition hasgenerally been split between two camps, seman-tics and pragmatics.
Karttunen (1973) maintainsthat the semantic perspective on presuppositionsees presupposition as emanating from the sen-tence, and the pragmatic perspective as emanat-ing from the speaker.
Levinson argues that pre-supposition cannot be viewed as semantic in thenarrow sense (based on formal logic and truth con-ditionality), but rather as dependent on contextand ?the actual linguistic structure of sentences?
(Levinson 1983: 167).
Theories defining presup-position within pragmatics depend mainly on mu-tual knowledge (or common ground).Within computational linguistics the treatmentof presupposition falls mainly within dynamic se-mantics, within which DRT has developed.
In thebroadest terms presupposition, whether in linguis-tics or philosophy, has been viewed as a relationbetween sentences or propositions, where the pre-supposed proposition is not in focus in the presup-position sentence.
DRT, and dynamic semantics ingeneral, is precisely concerned with such relations?
i.e.
with the relations between an utterance andprevious utterances in the discourse.Given these varying definitions as to what con-stitutes presupposition, before attempting to in-troduce pragmatic constraints to presupposition inDRT, we must first explain what pragmatic presup-position, as used in this paper, constitutes.
Twoimportant notions come into question when as-sessing what constitutes presupposition, namely,the notion of givenness and the relationship be-tween the beliefs (or the cognitive states) of theagents involved in a conversation.2.1 Presupposition and GivennessWhile presuppositions can be defined as that partof the utterance that is taken to be ?given?
(Lam-brecht 1994), the notion of ?given?
needs clari-fying.
?Given?
means known information, infor-mation that the speaker regards as known to bothspeaker and hearer - information directly relatingto the topic of the dialogue or as part of gen-eral background knowledge assumptions about theworld.
The presupposition in this sense is a re-flection of the speaker?s assumptions about thehearer?s state of mind, i.e.
the speaker assumes thehearer already knows this information (Lambrecht1994).
An alternate meaning of ?given?
is whenthe speaker knows that the information the presup-position provides is, in fact, new to the hearer.
Inthis case, the speaker introduces the new informa-tion ?as if?
it were given, in order to indicate thatthe presupposed information is not the focus ofthe speaker?s attention.
Unlike Stalnaker?s under-standing of presupposition (Stalnaker 2002), thisunderstanding of ?given?
to include informationnew to the hearer means that the presuppositionintroduced is not necessarily part of what is oftentermed the ?common ground?.Thus, we might think in terms of a speaker?packaging?
information as a presupposition(speaker presupposition).
In this approach, thespeaker has the choice of picking information shedeems to be known to the hearer or informationthat she deems to be new to the hearer, knowingthat to do so, she (the speaker) is communicatingthat the presupposition is not the focus of her ut-terance, but rather she would like the hearer to di-rect his attention to the new information providedby the rest of the utterance.
For new, presupposedinformation to pass as given, the speaker must beaware that introducing an ?out of the ordinary?
or?remarkable?
presupposition will cause problems.For instance, example (1) is less likely to causeproblems than example (2) when the hearer knowsthat the speaker lives in the city centre.26(1) The car across the street from my housebelongs to my neighbour.
(2) The small jet across the street from myhouse belongs to my neighbour,2.2 Presupposition and Agents?
CognitiveStatesTo define pragmatic presupposition within DRT,presupposition should be understood to be a prop-erty of the agent.
Lambrecht (1994) understandspragmatic presupposition as an interest in the as-sumptions speakers make about hearers.
There aretwo types of agent presupposition, speaker pre-supposition and hearer presupposition.
This isdifferent from semantic presupposition, i.e.
sen-tence presupposition.
Agent presupposition dif-fers from sentence presupposition in that the latterstems from sentence meaning, whereas the formerattaches itself to the beliefs of the speaker and herintentions.In essence, the effect of presupposition is to giveinsights about the speaker?s beliefs as well as thespeaker?s beliefs about the hearer?s beliefs.
In thissense, the dynamic semantic notion of ?taken forgranted?
means that the speaker believes the pre-supposition to be either known information or in-formation that is not the desired focus of atten-tion.
When a speaker introduces a presuppositionin her utterance, she is not primarily concernedwith the information the presupposition provides,but rather in the new information, the ?assertion?part, the utterance communicates.Presupposition is related to the beliefs of thespeaker.
Speaker belief leads to presupposi-tion, which indicates the beliefs of the speaker tothe hearer.
Presupposition is a reflection of thespeaker?s state of mind.
What speakers presup-pose gives an indication as to what speakers be-lieve or accept (weakly believe) and what they be-lieve hearers believe or accept within the contextof a dialogue (cf.
Al-Raheb 2005).
This is strongerthan what is generally conceded in the relevant lit-erature (Geurts 1999).While this view of pragmatic presuppositionshares Stalnaker?s (2002) view concerning the im-portance of beliefs and context to understandinglinguistic phenomena, the present view of presup-position has a different understanding of the rela-tionship between belief and presupposition.
Stal-naker sees beliefs, not in terms of the speaker, butrather in terms of the vague term the ?commonground?
(cf.
Al-Raheb 2005).
?
[T]o believe p tobe common ground is to presuppose in Stalnaker?ssense?
as Simons (2003: 19) puts it.
The view pre-sented here takes the position that presuppositionsreflect the speaker?s beliefs, regardless of whetherthe beliefs are part of common ground or not.3 Pragmatic ConstraintsHaving defined what is meant by pragmatic pre-supposition, we now move to discuss introducingpragmatic constraints on the phenomenon of pre-supposition in DRT.
In order to enhance the prag-matic representation of presuppositional phenom-enon in DRT, Gricean maxims need to be formu-lated in terms of pragmatic constraints on gener-ating presuppositional utterances (speaker?s per-spective) and interpreting them (hearer?s perspec-tive).
The maxims are reformulated in terms ofthe cognitive relationship between the speaker andthe hearer, producing constraints on presupposi-tion which are necessary for successful communi-cation.Following Grice?s Cooperative Principle (Grice1989), by adhering to the maxims, dialogue agentsare being cooperative and not attempting to de-ceive or lie to one another (Grice 1989).
The inten-tion to communicate requires the speaker to assessher beliefs concerning the hearer?s beliefs.
Thisway of thinking about dialogue communicationleads to the formulation of pragmatic constraints.It is proposed that these constraints broadly cor-respond to Grice?s quantity and quality maxims.Section 4 describes an implementation of the prag-matic constraints introduced in this section.To make her contribution informative (maximof quantity), the speaker needs to follow the firstpragmatic constraint placed on making an asser-tion (BCA1): to express an assertion the speakerneeds to believe that the hearer does not hold theassertion, A, as a belief.
In other words, thespeaker believes the hearer does not hold the beliefthat A.
This is similar to van der Sandt?s (1992)informativity constraint, although his informativ-ity constraint is not directly linked to beliefs.
Thispragmatic constraint is illustrated in the followingexample:(3) Speaker: Mia likes dancing.Hearer: Yeah I know.In example (3) the hearer indicates previousknowledge of A, which means that either the27speaker is not following BCA1, or that the speakerwas not aware that the hearer believes A. Witheach new utterance, the speaker must be aware ofthe BCA1.The second pragmatic constraint placed on as-sertion is BCA2.
Following from our assumptionsconcerning Grice?s quality maxim, for a speakerto express an assertion, the speaker must herselfbelieve or accept that assertion.
That is to say, be-ing cooperative, to express A, the speaker must be-lieve or accept that A.Similarly, to introduce a presupposition, thespeaker must include the presupposition in herbeliefs or acceptance space (quality maxim),(BCP1).
If the speaker is initiating a topic, thehearer has more grounds to conclude the speakerbelieves P (BCP1a).
At the same time, the speakermust also be aware that when introducing P, thespeaker is communicating that the speaker be-lieves P. That is to say, if the speaker initiates thetopic of P, the hearer may assume that the speakerbelieves P. However, when it is the hearer?s turn tobecome the speaker, and he refers to the presup-position, P, introduced by the speaker, the speaker,who introduced P, may assume a weaker belief onthe part of the hearer, namely that the hearer ac-cepts P. Thus, presuppositions are built on the cur-rent context, which is built upon the union of be-liefs and acceptance spaces of an agent.
In otherwords, if the hearer refers to a presupposition em-ployed previously by the speaker, the hearer (whonow becomes the speaker) at least accepts P (i.e.holds P in his acceptance space) (BCP2).For example,(4) S1: I must buy Vincent?s wife a birthdaypresent.H1: I didn?t know Vincent was married.S2: Yes, he is.
His wife likes chocolate.H2: She may also like flowers.S3: I?ll buy her chocolates.The speaker initiates the presupposition (in exam-ple (4) it is new information to the hearer) that Vin-cent has a wife.
According to BCP1, the hearermay safely assume and indeed add to his beliefsabout the speaker?s beliefs that the speaker be-lieves P (Vincent has a wife).
However, when thehearer comes to refer to P (Vincent?s wife), thespeaker does not necessarily infer that the hearerbelieves Vincent is married, but rather that thehearer accepts P. Introducing a topic for the pre-supposition allows the hearer to add more strengthto her representation of the speaker?s beliefs, i.e.to establish belief rather than acceptance.
Thiswould be more evident in a context where thespeaker is attempting to persuade the hearer to dosomething.
For information dialogues, where theinformation provider has the authority of possess-ing the answers to the information seeker?s ques-tions, the beliefs of the information provider mayattain a stronger position than they would in othertypes of social contexts (cf.
Al-Raheb 2005).
Theinformation seeker is less likely to challenge orevaluate the strength of belief of the informationprovider.
If we contrast example (4) with example(5), the strength of beliefs are much higher, we canassume, than for when the hearer is not required toperform any action.
(5) S1: You should buy Vincent?s wife abirthday present.H1: I didn?t know Vincent was married.S2: Yes he is.
His wife likes chocolate.H2: She may also like flowers.S3: But she prefers chocolate.H3: I?ll get her some chocolate.In example (4), where the hearer was not re-quired to perform any action, it is safer for thespeaker to assume that the hearer accepts P as thehearer is not committing himself to doing any task,than to assume the stronger case, i.e.
the hearerbelieves P. However, in example (5) where thehearer agrees to buying Vincent?s wife a present inH3 (that is the hearer commits to perform an ac-tion for Vincent?s wife), the speaker will concludethat the hearer believes the presupposed proposi-tion and adds this to the speaker?s representationof the hearer?s beliefs.
In other words, when thehearer makes P, in H3, the speaker concludes thatthe hearer believes P and adds this to the speaker?srepresentation, or beliefs set, of the hearer?s be-liefs.
Thus, someone getting someone else?s com-mitment to do something implies greater strengthof belief about a presupposition which affects thatcommitment.Allowing the hearer to assume weaker beliefbrings us back to Simons?
(2003) suggestion ofmodifying Stalnaker?s understanding of presuppo-sition to become what she terms the ?dispositionof presupposition?
: speakers ?act as if?
they takethe presupposition for granted.
Simons (2003) ar-gues that speakers do not need to believe the pre-suppositions they use.
With acceptance, as un-derstood by the view of pragmatic presupposition28presented in this paper, speakers do not have tohold the strong belief P. But, at the same time,to express P, speakers should not hold the beliefthat P is false.
That is, being cooperative neces-sitates that when the speaker utters P, the speakerdoes not hold the belief that ?
P. Speakers mayindicate stronger belief.
However, if there is nosuch indication (e.g.
?Definitely?, or ?I couldn?tagree more?
), hearers may conclude that speakersat least hold the presupposition in their acceptancespace.
Speakers may later allow the hearer to con-clude that they hold greater strength of belief thanat first assumed.4 Implementing Pragmatic ConstraintsThe following set of operations implement thepragmatic constraints on presupposition and asser-tion set out in section 3, namely BCA1, BCA2,BCP1, and BCP2.2 We begin, firstly, by show-ing how the pragmatic constraint operations areimplemented and by demonstrating how the codeworks on linear DRSs (cf.
Al-Raheb 2005).
Sec-ondly, we demonstrate how the constraints workon a real example by passing an example dialoguethrough the implemented pragmatic constraints forboth the speaker and the hearer.4.1 ImplementationThe first pragmatic constraint on assertion (BCA1)is represented by beliefConstraintA1.
It checksthat a condition is not in the hearer?s Belief DRSnor inside the hearer?s Acceptance DRS in aSpeaker?s Belief or Acceptance DRS.
Agent?s Be-lief DRSs represent stronger beliefs they hold andstronger beliefs they have about other agents in di-alogue, whereas Acceptance DRSs represent theirweaker beliefs about the dialogue and about theweaker beliefs held by other agents in dialogue (cf.Al-Raheb 2005).
When a condition is not found ineither embedded DRS, it succeeds.The second pragmatic constraint on assertion(BCA2) is represented by beliefConstraintA2,which checks if a condition is either in thespeaker?s Belief or Acceptance DRS.
The oper-ation succeeds once a match is found.3 BCP12The implementation outlined in this section demon-strates how pragmatic constraints on presupposition can beimplemented, but does not describe the entire architecture ofchecking that these constraints are adhered to in processingan entire dialogue.3These pragmatic constraints on assertion are not demon-strated as the focus of this paper is presupposition.drs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[ ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[ ]) ]) ]).becomes:drs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[b1: singer(x) ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[ ]) ]) ]).Figure 1: Hearer BCP1has been subdivided into speaker and hearer.The speaker side, beliefConstraintSpeakerP1checks if a condition is a member of the speaker?sbelief or acceptance DRS.For the hearer, beliefConstraintHearerP1checks if a condition is not a member of thespeaker?s acceptance or belief DRS, then checksif the condition is not a member of the hearer?sbelief or acceptance DRS.
If this check passes,the condition is added to the hearer?s belief aboutthe speaker?s belief, i.e.
speaker?s belief DRSembedded inside the hearer?s DRS.
When us-ing ?beliefConstraintHearerP1?
to check for thecondition ?singer(X)?, we get the second DRS as aresult in Figure 1.The second version of the hearer?s BCP1, be-liefConstraintHearerP1a, checks if a conditionis not a member of the speaker?s belief or accep-tance DRS, and is a member of the hearer?s be-lief or acceptance DRS.
Then, it adds the condi-tion to the speaker?s acceptance DRS, embeddedinside the hearer?s acceptance DRS.
This is shownin Figure 2.The second pragmatic constraint on Presuppo-29drs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[b1: singer(x),attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[ ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[ ]) ]) ]).becomes:drs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[b1: singer(x),attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[ ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[c2: singer(x) ]) ]) ]).Figure 2: Hearer BCP1asition (BCP2) is also divided into speaker sideand hearer side.
The speaker?s side, belief-ConstraintSpeakerP2, checks a condition, e.g.
?singer(X)?, is a member of the speaker?s belief oracceptance DRS, but not a member of the hearer?sacceptance or belief DRS, embedded inside thespeaker?s DRSs (Figure 3).
Once this is fulfilled,the condition is added to the hearer?s acceptanceDRS, embedded inside the speaker?s acceptanceDRS.BCP2, from the hearer?s perspective, uses be-liefConstraintHearerP2, which checks whethera condition, e.g.
?singer(X)?, is a member of thespeaker?s belief or acceptance DRS (embedded in-side the hearer?s DRSs), and then checks if thecondition is not a member of the hearer?s accep-tance or belief DRSs.
It then adds the condition tothe hearer?s acceptance DRS, as in Figure 4.4.2 ApplicationThe following exampledrs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[b1: singer(x),attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[ ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[ ]) ]) ]).becomes:drs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[b1: singer(x),attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[ ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[c2: singer(x) ]) ]) ]).Figure 3: Speaker BCP2(6) S1: You have to buy Vincent?s wife apresent.H1: Should I send Mia flowers?S1: Mia likes chocolate.
Buy her some.H2: I?ll buy her chocolate.is passed through the implemented pragmatic con-straints to briefly demonstrate how the pragmaticconstraints can be employed in dialogue.
Figures 5and 6 show the initial beliefs of both agents beforethe dialogue is initiated.
To proceed, the pragmaticconstraints for the speaker are applied.
If the prag-matic constraints do not apply, the dialogue cannotgo forward.
This starts a recognition process onthe part of the hearer.To utter S1, the speaker is constrained by BCP1for the speaker, which dictates that the presupposi-tion to be uttered needs to be part of the speaker?sbeliefs or acceptance DRSs (cf.
section 3).
Whenthis is verified, the speaker is able to make anutterance containing the presupposition resulting30drs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[b1: singer(x) ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[ ]) ]) ]).becomes:drs1:drs([x, z],[walter(x),vincent(z),attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs2),drs2:drs([ ],[attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs3),drs3:drs([ ],[b1: singer(x) ]) ]),attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs4),drs4:drs([ ],[c1: dancer(z),c2: singer(x),attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs5),drs5:drs([ ],[ ]) ]) ]).Figure 4: Hearer BCP2in Figure 7.4 Here, the speaker already believesthe hearer believes the contents of the presuppo-sition, ?Vincent has a wife?, and as such nothingneeds to be changed in the speaker?s beliefs aboutthe hearer?s beliefs, BCP2 for the speaker.
If,however, the speaker did not already believe thehearer believes the presupposition, the contents ofthe presupposition would be added to the hearer?sacceptance DRS inside the speaker?s acceptanceDRS according to BCP2 for the speaker.In the process of recognizing the speaker?s ut-terance, the hearer?s pragmatic constraints are em-ployed and if they are violated, again the dialoguecannot proceed.
The first pragmatic constraint forthe hearer to apply is BCP1, which checks whetherboth the speaker and the hearer do not believeor accept the presupposition.
Upon finding thatboth the speaker and the hearer believe the pre-supposition, there is no need to add anything to ei-ther the hearer?s or the speaker?s belief and accep-tance spaces.
If, however, that was not the case,BCP1 and BCP1a alter the hearer?s and speaker?s4Figures 7 and 8 show both agents?
beliefs after S1 is ut-tered.belief states accordingly by adding the contentsof the presupposition as indicated in section 4.1.The same reasoning applies to checking whetherBCP2 applies, for if the hearer did not already be-lieve or accept the presupposition, BCP2 adds thecontents of the presupposition to the hearer?s ac-ceptance DRS.
After this, the speaker?s pragmaticconstraints are checked against the hearer?s, whois now the speaker, utterance and so on.drs1:i you v mdrs2:attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs3)drs3:attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs2)attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs4)drs4:x yb1:vincent(v)b2:male(v)b3:married(v, m)b4:has(v,m)b5:mia(m)b6:wife(m)b7:female(m)b8:buy(you, m, x)b9:present(x)b10:chocolate(y)b11:like(m, y)b12:buy(you, m, y)attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs5)drs5:b13:vincent(v)b14:male(v)b15:married(v, m)b16:has(v,m)b17:mia(m)b18:wife(m)b19:female(m)attitude(i, ?INT?, drs6)drs6:Figure 5: Speaker Initial State5 ConclusionThis paper has introduced a pragmatic view of pre-supposition both in terms of givenness and the ef-fects agents?
cognitive states have on formulatingpresupposition.
To introduce this pragmatic viewof presupposition into DRT, some pragmatic con-straints have been formulated and demonstrated byway of example.
In addition, an implementation ofthese pragmatic constraints on presupposition hasbeen introduced into the extended DRT represen-tation formulated by Al-Raheb (2005).ReferencesAl-Raheb, Y.
2005.
Speaker/Hearer Representation ina Discourse Representation Theory Model of Pre-supposition: A Computational-Linguistic Approach.Phd.
University of East Anglia.31drs1:i you v mdrs2:attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs3)drs3:attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs2)attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs4)drs4:x zb18:vincent(v)b19:male(v)b20:married(v, m)b21:has(v,m)b22:mia(m)b23:wife(m)b24:female(m)b25:flowers(z)attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs5)drs5:b26:vincent(v)b27:male(v)b28:married(v, m)b29:has(v,m)b30:mia(m)b31:wife(m)b32:female(m)attitude(i, ?INT?, drs6)drs6:Figure 6: Hearer Initial Statedrs1:i you vdrs2:attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs3)drs3:attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs2)attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs4)drs4:yb1:vincent(v)b2:male(v)b3:married(v, m)b4:has(v,m)b5:mia(m)b6:wife(m)b7:female(m)b8:buy(you, m, x)b9:present(x)b10:chocolate(y)b11:like(m, y)b12:buy(you, m, y)attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs5)drs5:b13:vincent(v)b14:male(v)b15:married(v, m)b16:has(v,m)b17:mia(m)b18:wife(m)b19:female(m)attitude(i, ?INT?, drs6)drs6:m x va1:buy(you, m, x)a2:present(x)p1:female(m)p2:wife(m)p3:male(v)p4:vincent(v)inform(i, you, a1)inform(i, you, a2)Figure 7: Speaker Generation: After S1Geurts, B.
1999.
Presuppositions and Pronouns: Cur-rent Research in the Semantics/ Pragmatics Inter-face.
Oxford: Elsevier.drs1:i you vdrs2:attitude(you, ?ACCEPT?, drs3)drs3:attitude(i, ?ACCEPT?, drs2)attitude(i, ?BEL?, drs4)drs4:x, zb18:vincent(v)b19:male(v)b20:married(v, m)b21:has(v,m)b22:mia(m)b23:wife(m)b24:female(m)b25:flowers(z)attitude(you, ?BEL?, drs5)drs5:b26:vincent(v)b27:male(v)b28:married(v, m)b29:has(v,m)b30:mia(m)b31:wife(m)b32:female(m)attitude(i, ?INT?, drs6)drs6:a1:buy(i, m, x)a2:present(x)p1:female(m)p2:has(v, m)p3:married(v, m)p4:wife(m)p5:male(v)p6:vincent(v)inform(you, i, a1)inform(you, i, a2)Figure 8: Hearer Recognition: After S1Grice, P. 1989.
Studies in the Way of Words.
Cam-bridge, MA: Harvard University Press.Lambrecht, K. 1994.
Information Structure and Sen-tence Form: Topic, Focus and the Mental Represen-tations of Discourse Referents.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Levinson, S. 1983.
Pragmatics.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Simons, M. 2003.
?Presupposition and Accommo-dation: Understanding the Stalnakerian Picture?.Philosophical Studies 112, pp.
251?278.Stalnaker, R. 2002.
?Common ground?.
Linguisticsand Philosophy 25(5-6), pp.
701?721.van der Sandt, R. and Geurts, B.
1991.
?Presupposi-tion, Anaphora, and Lexical Content?.
In: O. Her-zog and C.-R. Rollinger (Eds.).
Text Understand-ing in LILOG.
pp.
259?296.
Berlin, Heidelberg:Springer Verlag.van der Sandt, R. 1992.
?Presupposition Projection asAnaphora Resolution?.
Journal of Semantics 9, pp.333?377.Werth, P. 1999.
Text Worlds: Representing ConceptualSpace in Discourse.
New York: Longman.32
