Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 51?56,Trento, Italy, April 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Multilingual Analysis of the Notion of InstrumentalityAsanee Kawtrakul, Mukda Suktarachan (Kasetsart univ.
Bangkok, Thailand),Bali Ranaivo-Malancon, Pek Kuan Ng, (Univ.
Sains Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia),Achla Raina (IIT Kanpur, India),Sudeshna Sarkar (IIT Kharagpur, India),Alda Mari (Enst-Cnrs, Paris, France),Sina Zarriess (Universita?t Potsdam, Germany),Elixabete Murguia (Univ.
Deusto, Bilbao, Spain),Patrick Saint-Dizier (Irit-Cnrs, Toulouse, France)AbstractInstruments are expressed in language byvarious means: prepositions, postposi-tions, affixes including case marks, nonfi-nite verbs, etc.
We consider here 12 lan-guages from five families in order to beable to identify the different meaning com-ponents that structure instrumentality.1 CreditsThis work has been made possible partly via theSTIC-Asia cooperation framework.2 IntroductionIt is difficult to give a comprehensive definition ofwhat instrumentality is.
In WordNet it is definedas ?an artifact, or a set of artifacts, that are instru-mental (i.e.
behave as instruments) in accomplish-ing some end?, i.e.
reaching a certain goal.
Inthis definition, the triple relation agent-instrument-goal (as in: John cuts the bread with a knife, whereJohn is agent, knife is instrument that does the cut-ting, and bread cut is the goal), is left vague inwhat concerns the exact involvement of the agentand the instrument in the action, and the controlthe agent has on the instrument and on the action(Mari and St-Dizier 01).If almost anything can be an instrument, we cannevertheless formulate a few criteria that we willtry to elaborate in this paper.
First, an instrumentis basically non volitional.
When humans play therole of instruments, they are obviously volitional,but the action is controlled by another agent whoacts as an ?initiator agent?, taking the initiative ofthe action.
Instruments cannot be easily associatedwith traditional thematic roles, in fact this is notof much interest, because this is too superficial anotion and also because instruments are generallymodifiers, not arguments.In this paper, we address instrumentality as con-veyed by prepositions or equivalent means (e.g.postpositions, affixes).
Our aim in this studyis twofold: (1) to identify the conceptual facetsof instrumentality so that a conceptual seman-tics can be defined in the spirit of (Talmy, 01,03), (Wierzbicka 92, 96) and (2) to elaborate anaccurate enough model for answering questionsabout instruments within a cooperative question-answering system.
Instead of focusing on a spe-cific language to elaborate all possible forms ofinstrumentality, we found it more adequate to de-velop a multilingual approach, considering lan-guages from various families.We consider for Europe: German, Spanish,French, Italian; for India: Kashmiri, Urdu, Hindiand Bengali; for the far-east: Thai and Malay;for Northern Africa and the Middle East: Ara-bic, and Berber dialects (in the group of Amazighlanguages).
In this paper, we use the first let-ter of each language to identify it: Thai, Malay,Hindi, Urdu, Kashmiri, Bengali, German, Span-ish, French, Italian, Arabic, BeRber).
We havealso more or less adequately transcribed charactersinto latin characters.
The upper case A is equiva-lent to aa.3 An overview of preposition structures3.1 European languagesGerman, Spanish, Italian and French, like mostEuropean languages have prepositions that in-troduce instrumental PPs.
The most currentprepositions are:- German: mit, mit Hilfe von,mittels, durch, anhand, kraft,51dank, per.- French: avec, par, au moyen de,gra?ce a`, a` l?aide de, a` travers.- Spanish: con, en, por, a trave?s de,mediante, por medio de, a basede, con la ayuda de, gracias a.- Italian: con, per mezzo di, tramite,per, grazie a, con l?aiuto di.3.2 Arabic and BerberArabic essentially has the preposition bi, used asa prefix of the noun it heads:Aktoub bi al kalami (I write with a pen).bi can also be associated with a specific nounor deverbal form (e.g.
?by applying?)
to char-acterize in more depth the instrumental relation.This entails generic forms such as bi-tarika,bi-istemali (by means of, the first form rein-forces the importance of the instrument, while thelatter is more formal) and bi-fadli (thanks to).For example, we have a kind of nominal form is-tikhdam (= using or with the use of, constructedfrom the root ?use?)
in:Fasser el massala bi istikhdam mithel (explain aproblem ?with the use of?
example).
Arabic makesexplicit the metonymy we have in European lan-guages.There are a few other prepositions such as minkhilal (through) and min a to express the du-ality source + instrument of the argument (as indrink with a bottle, litterally).
In the spatial con-text, au can be used (to reach the top by this trail),and ala is used to express a channel of commu-nication.Berber is composed of a large number of di-alects, some just spoken in small ?tribes?, othersin larger communities.
It is basically dialectal, buta number of common elements can be identified.We consider here Berber from the Moroccan Rif,and the Algerian Kabyle.
The main instrumentalpreposition is e`g, but prefixes are also used s-,ge-, th-, kh- which affect the morphologyof the noun they are attached to.
The prefix s-is widely used, with some variants (si, sei,so in Kabyle), e`g (also realized as g?
or ge insome places), is appropriate only when the actionis under full control of the agent.
It is not em-ployed when the instrument is abstract.
In the Rifarea, s- focusses on the instrument contributing tothe action, it makes a kind of fusion between theaction verb and the instrumental noun.
ge is onlyused in spatial contexts involving means of trans-portation (travelling by plane), kh is used only inspatial contexts involving paths.3.3 The Indic language familyThe four languages considered, Kashmiri (Raina,02), Urdu, Hindi and Bengali, share some simil-itudes due to their common origins but alsocontrasts that result from independent evolutionswhich are useful to our analysis.
They all have suf-fixes and postpositions.
Case suffixes (vibakhti)are added to nouns or pronouns, but case suf-fixes do not correspond strictly to thematic roles(kAraka).
Postpositions may also be used insteadof vibhaktis or in conjunction with them, as a kindor re-inforcement.
Basically, but with some nu-ances, Hindi, Urdu, Bengali and Kashmiri lan-guages have the following kernels:?
direct instrument: se (H/U), sity (K), -e/-te,diye after null, dwArA after -r (B).
Example:H: raam ne chaabi se taala khola (ram - erg.key with lock open-past= Ram openened thelock with a key).?
means instrument: me (H/U), ke zariye (U),manz (K), -e/-te (B).
Example: U: raamgaadi ke zariye daftar gayaa (ram car bymeans of office go-past = Ram went to workby car).?
causal instrument: ke kaaran (H), ki vajah se(U), kiny (K), kArANe, kripAya (B).
Exam-ple: K: dil chi sayaahat kiny amir (Delhi be-present tourism with rich = Delhi is rich withtourism),B: dillI paryatan-er khAtire samriddha or dillIparyatan-er kripAya samriddha (Delhi be-rich-er thanks to tourism)?
agentive instrument: ke dwaraa (H) ke zariye(U) zariy, desi (K), diye (B) after -ke whenthe nominal form is animate and specific,diye after null when the nominal form is an-imate and general (B).
Example: H: raam neshyaam dwara apna kaam karvaaya (ram erg.shyam by self?s work do-cause-past = Ramgot his work done by Shyam)?
action instrumentalised: kar (H/U), kerith(K).
Example: U: raam kuud kar ghar ke an-dar daakhil huaa (ram jump participle house52into enter-past = Ram entered the house byjumping in it)There are less important cases that capture no-tions like containment, which will be detailed insection 5.
Postpositions may vary also dependingon the semantic type of the NP they head.In Bengali, case is indicated in several ways.Vibhaktis are suffixes that are added to the stemsto form surface forms of words.
In Bengali thenominal stems take one of the following suffixes:null or shunya vibhakti, -e, -te, -r, etc.
Case is alsoindicated in Bengali by the use of postpositions.We have, for example: Cut bread with a knife, re-alized as either:1. chhuri diye ruti kATa (knife diye bread cut), or:2. chhuri-te ruti kAta (knife-te bread cut)Postpositions in Bengali are derived from certaininflected forms of nouns, and also certain verbsin participle form.
When these words are usedas postpositions they are often not considered intheir original sense but define a specific type of re-lationship of the noun phrase with the finite verbphrase in the sentence.
These words are appearin a fixed form (indeclinables) as postpositions.When a postposition is used to denote the case,the nominal word preceding the postposition takeson a vibhakti that is determined by the particu-lar postposition.
?diye?
is used after null vibhakti,?dwArA?
after -r vibhakti, etc.3.4 Thai and MalayThai and Malay, although spoken in neighbourcountries, are substantially different.Thai, from the Thai-Kadai family, has 6 prepo-sitions (Silapasarn, 98) to denote instruments, themost common being doi and duai which areused for concrete instruments, means of trans-portation, instruments close to manners, etc.
kapis used when the instrument is a part of the body,while thang is used for means of transportationonly.
tam characterizes control of the agent, andchak is restricted to the instruments that conveyan idea of source.
Examples:khian - duai - din so (Write - with - pencil)pai - pa ris - doi - khrueang bin (Go - Paris - by -plane)These semantic distinctions are, however, often vi-olated in colloquial Thai.Malay, from the Malayo-polynesian family, hasthree ways to introduce instruments: preposition +NP, affixes and compounding.
Affixed words arebuilt from stems which are instrumental nouns,this allows for the construction of the equivalentof PPs, based on the prototypical use of the instru-mental noun.
The most common being: prefixes:beR- (from kuda, horse, berkuda, on horseback),meN- (from kunci, key, mengunci, lock with key),prefix + suffix: meN- + -kan (from paku, nail,memakukan, to fasten with nails), and with suffix-i (from ubat, medicine, mengubati, by means ofmedicine).
Prepositions occur as the head of PPs,and in verb particle constructions.
PPs may alsobe subject complements, avoiding the use of verbs(dia di rumah, she at home).
Besides affixes,Malay has 6 prepositions that denote instrumen-tality: dengan, melalui, mengikut,menerusi, dengan menggunakan,secara.A simple example is:berhubung - melalui - telefon (communicate - by -telephone).4 The meaning components ofinstrumentalityLet us now consider the different meaning compo-nents that emerge from our multilingual analysis.The results presented below are still exploratorydue to the complexity of the notion.
The distinc-tions made (e.g.
between concrete and abstract in-struments) may seem arbitrary: they are just meantto structure the presentation.4.1 Concrete instrumentsAll languages studied have at least one basic in-strumental mark operating over concrete objects(T: duai, M: dengan, H: se, U: se, K: sity, B: diye,-e, -te, G: mit, S: con, F: avec, A: bi, BR: e`g).
Sev-eral refinements are identified, for specific types ofNPs, or to denote a specific intention:?
the instrument is a recipient (S: en) or, moregenerally, conveys an idea of container (e.g.spoon) (B: -e kare), the idea behing is thatthe container is used to carry the object alonga certain trajectory,?
the instrument is a part of the body (e.g.hand): T: kap.
In this case, the instrumentis not strictly artifactual.?
the goal is difficult to reach, it requires someefforts from the agent (S: a base de),53?
the focus can be emphasized by using ded-icated marks (G: mit Hilfe (von), Mittels(more fomal: Das Gericht hat mittels einst-weiliger Verfu?gung den Drogenhandel unter-sagt (the court has with provisional ordinancethe drug traffic prohibited))).The second major difficulty is prototypicality(Rosch, 78).
When the instrument used is not veryprototypical of the action, several languages re-inforce the instrumental prepositions to, sort of,coerce the type of the noun so that it can becomean acceptable instrument.
We have examples in S:por medio de, B: sAhAjye, sahojoge,I: per mezzo di, F: au moyen de, parle biais de (biais= bias which directly ex-presses this idea), as in:F: Il a ouvert la porte au moyen d?un cric (heopened the door by means of a jack).At a conceptual level, it is quite difficult tocharacterize what is a prototypical instrumentfor a given action (characterized by subject-verb-object: John opens the door).
Each event has itsown prototypical instrument, making corpus stud-ies extremely large, probably unfeasable.
Whensearching on the web, we find an incredible varietyof instruments to open a door, almost impossibleto classify.
Next, prototypicality is not a booleannotion: instruments are more or less prototypical.Since the instrument is very much dependent onthe verb and on the object, we cannot foresee anyform of incorporation in the verb that would giveus indications.
A direction could be to assumeQualia structures (Pustejovsky 91) associated witheach potential instrument that describes the func-tion of the object in the telic role.
For example,key(X) would have open(X, door), with door be-ing quite generic.
This approach could work via alarge lexical development for concrete nouns, it ismuch more risky when terms are abstract.4.2 Abstract instrumentsAbstract instruments (theorems, regulations, ex-amples, etc.)
are realized identically to concreteinstruments, but with some typical marks suchas: T: tam, H: dwAra, K: zariyi, B: dwArA,M.
mengikut.
At this stage, it is difficult to ex-plain why marks are different from concrete in-struments.
An hypothesis could be that abstract in-struments are closer to causes (see 5.5), or to moreformal situations for which specific terms were de-veloped (e.g.
for G: kraft).There are additional marks dedicated to partic-ular fields: B: sahajoge, and A: min khilalwhen instruments are of type ?example?
(explainwith an example).
U: -ke zariye, S: pormedio de and G: Anhand, Kraft are moreformal, stronger for Kraft and apply particularlyto areas like juridical or psychological domains.People and organizations can be seen as appro-priate intermediaries for reaching a goal.
Theymay be conceived as metaphorical instruments.Investigations show that people can get controlledmuch in the same way as concrete objects:F: Elle a informe?
Paul de son de?part par Pauline(She informed Paul of her leaving ?by?
Pauline).If we now consider: S: Juan env?
?o este paquetepor correo (John sent this parcel ?by?
post)Since post is the by-default medium to send pack-ages, por is the only choice.
Using more preciseservices, like FedEx, is considered to be an alter-native way, in that case F: par, avec S: por,con are both acceptable.4.3 Metaphorical instrumentsBoth concrete and abstract objects can be usedmetaphorically as instruments.
Examples aboundin the literature and on the Web.
In 5.6 we ex-amine the path metaphor which is very produc-tive.
Besides this case, we have a number ofmetaphors, such as: write with your heart, fightwith your head, etc.
These are not essentially dif-ferent from metaphors observed in other situations(Lakoff and Johnson 99).4.4 The overlap instrument-mannerIn a number of cases, it is not very easy to makea distinction between instrument and manner.
Itseems there is a continuum between these two no-tions or even some form of overlap, where the ob-ject is both an instrument and a manner at variousdegrees, which may depend on context.
A vari-ety of marks contribute to characterize this over-lap, manners at stake being quite diverse, but wewill not go into the study of manners.
Specificmarks dealing with the manner/instrument am-biguity are: T: doi, G: durch (which is alsoused for metaphorical spatial uses), M: denganmenggunakan, S: en, con, a as in S: es-cribir en/con rojo (write in red),T: khian - duai - muek - daeng (write - with - red -ink)BR: te`te s-e?fe`ssen (She-eats with-hands).544.5 CausalityIt is clear that, a priori, instruments can be viewedat various degrees as causes of an event.
There isa kind of overlap between these two notions.
In-struments are not volitional, so they are under thepartial or full control of an agent (humans playingthe role of instruments are also controlled by anagent).
Typically I: a causa di, F: a causede, S: a causa de signal that the instrumenthas brought about an event:I : Il castello e distrutto a causa di un violento in-cendio.
(The castle has been destroyed ?becauseof?
a violent fire.
)Causality (e.g.
Talmy, 01) being a complex no-tion, it is not surprising that instruments, viewedas intermediaries at various degrees, share somefeatures with causes.
For example in cut the breadwith a knife, the cause of the bread being cut isthe action of the agent, but also the use of a pro-totypical property of the knife: the knife does thecutting.
In (Talmy 01), the instrument is embed-ded into the causing event:(caused event) RESULTS FROM (causing event)where the causing event has the structure:Instrument ACTON object, where object is boundor related in some way to the object in the causedevent.As analyzed in (Mari and Saint-Dizier, 01), in-strumentality is the convergence of several factors:?
the degree of involvement of the instrumentin the action, therefore, the fact that the in-strument causes the action or is just a meansmanaged by the agent who is the main cause,?
the type of control the agent has on the instru-ment for the action at stake, from full controlto lack of control,?
the control the agent has over the action as awhole.Indic languages and Thai are particular explicit onthese matters.
They have specific marks for twomajor cases:1. agentive instrument, action not controlled bythe agent: H: ke dwAra, U: ke zariyeK: zariy, desi, T: doi,2.
causal instrument that does most of the ac-tion, under the control of the agent: H kekAran, U: ki vajah se, K. kiny, T:duai,Berber allows e`g only when the agent controls theinstrument.
The other cases are expressed by nonprepositional forms.4.6 Instruments and pathsAnother productive situation is the use of spatialmetaphors to express instrumentality.
The use ofF: par and other marks (e.g.
in B., U.
), showthat there is a close link between instrumentalityand path descriptions (spatial as well as temporalpaths).
This is a kind of metaphorical use of pathsviewed as instruments (as can be seen in (Lakoffet al 99): ?action is motion, goals are paths, actorsare travellers?).
Using an instrument parallels theuse of paths in the domain of space.Marks denoting paths or sources are of muchinterest.
Some have really restricted uses, whereasothers are more flexible.
We observe the followingmain components:?
paths: T: tam, A: min khilal, S: por, a trave?sde(por correo, by post), de, G: durch, F:a` travers, note the distinctions, e.g.
in M:melalui (metaphorical paths: M : berhubungmelalui telefon (communicate by telephone)),menerusi (channel of transmission), H, U:me, se, T: thang.
In B, -e and -te denotepaths where the agent that does the action hasno control, whereas diye and dhare involve atleast a partial control from the agent.
In M,metaphorical passages require melalui.?
sources: F: a`, A: min a, T: chak (for con-crete and abstract sources).
Example: A:Achroubou mina Karoura (I am drinking withbottle), which is also a kind of manner.The duality path/instrument is particularly visi-ble in, e.g.
:K: raam vot tshochi vati kiny gari (ram reach-pastshort route via home = Ram reached home by theshort route).Another interesting phenomenon occurs whenan argument is both an instrument and a path,as in look at the moon in a telescope.
Tele-scope is indeed the instrument used and alsothe path through which one looks, or which thelight traverses.
This double facet of the argu-ment is visible in surface realizations, where thepreposition used is ambiguous between instrument(first preposition) and path (second one) readings:G: mit, durch, S: con, por, M: dengan,melalui, F: avec, dans.
When one wants55to strongly stress the path interpretation, then amore path-oriented preposition is used, e.g.
S: atrave`s de.4.7 Means of transportation as instrumentsMeans of transportation (trains, spoons, boxes, en-velopes, etc.
), sometimes viewed as containers,and mediums of transportation (by air) receive aspecial treatment in a number of languages: T:doi, thang, M: menerusi, melalui (for metaphoricalmediums and passages), H: me, U: ke zariye, K:manz, zariy, B: kare, -e kare, -ya kare, A: ala, BR:ge-, kh-, G: per, S: por, en, F: par.
We have, for ex-ample: U: raam gaadi ke zariye daftar gayaa (ramcar by means of office go-past = ram went to postoffice by car)T: pai - pa ris - doi - khrueang bin (Go to - Paris -by - plane)B: Nouko-ya kare phuketa jAo or Nouko-yaphuketa jAo (boat-e kare phuket go or boat-ephuket go = go by boat to Phuket)A distinction is made between the medium andthe means as for: M: secara, which is used formeans of communication such as email or letters.If the agent has effective control over the means,then, for example, S uses con.4.8 Language levelsSome marks are proper to formal discourse: G:Mittels, Kraft, Anhand, H: dwAra.4.9 Positive or negative orientationThe languages we studied also abound in positive-oriented marks that express in a certain way theidea of ?thanks to?
: T: khop khun (+kah for fem-inime and krup for masculine), H: ke kAran, U:ki vajah, K: kiny, B: -er khAtire, (-er) kripAya, G:dank, S: gracias a, F: gra?ce a`.There are also several negative-oriented markssuch as the following prepositional compounds:F: de la faute de, I: per colpa di, S:por colpa de (by the fault of), where the term?fault?
conveys a negative orientation.4.10 MetonymiesIn most languages, the prototypical action denotedby the instrument is implicit, it is analyzed as ametonymy: object for action.
Action is inferredfrom the instrument and the verb in the given con-text.
In a number of situations, A and M needto make explicit the action.
For particular cases,gerundive forms may be prefered to PPs (but notto be confused with manners, e.g.
?by swim-ming?
), so that the verb that lexicalizes the actionis present.For example, in M, ?by the trail?
in to reach thetop of a mountain by the trail requires to make ex-plicit how the trail is used: dengan mengikuti de-nai itu (litt.
: with follow trail DET (same casesin Arabic and German)).
Another case is: G:Mit Flugzeugen la?sst sich Geld verdienen, (Withplanes you can money earn), where a concrete ob-ject replaces the whole procedure.The metonymy could be reconstructed, for sim-ple cases, by the Generative Lexicon (Pustejovsky86), whose role is precisely to make explicit pro-totypical functions of objects via their telic role, asadvocated above.ReferencesDowty, D., 1989, On the Semantic Content of the No-tion of Thematic Role, in G. Cherchia, B. Partee,R.
Turner (eds), Properties, Types and meaning,Kluwer Academic.Dowty, D., 1991, Thematic Proto-roles and ArgumentSelection, Language, vol.
67-3.Lakoff G., JohnsonM., 1999.
Philosophy in the Flesh.Basic books, NY, USA.Mari, A., Saint-Dizier, P., 2001, A Conceptual Se-mantics for Prepositions Denoting Instrumentality,in proc.
1st workshop on prepositions, Toulouse, andin Syntax and semantics of prepositions, P. Saint-Dizier (ed), Kluwer academic, 2006.Pustejovsky, J., 1991, The Generative Lexicon, Com-putational Linguistics, vol.
17, MIT Press.Raina, Achla M., 2002.
The Verb Second Phe-nomenon, O.N.
Koul and K Wali (eds.
), Topics inKashmiri Linguistics.
Creative Books, New Delhi,India.Rosch, E., 1978.
Principles of Categorization.
In E.Rosch and B.B.
Lloyd (eds.
), Cognition and Catego-rization.
Hillsdale : Lawrence Erlbaum AssociatesPublishers.Sinlapasarn, Upakitt.
1998.
Thai Grammar.
ThaiWatthana Panich, Bangkok, Thailand.Talmy L., 2001, 2003.
Towards a Cognitive Seman-tics, vol.
1 and 2.
MIT Press.Wiezbicka, A.,1996.
Semantics primes and universals.Oxford: Oxford University Press.Wierzbicka, A., 1992, Semantic Primitives and Se-mantic Fields, in A. Lehrer and E.F. Kittay (eds.
),Frames, Fields and Contrasts.
Hillsdale: LawrenceErlbaum Associates, pp.
208-227.56
