Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 57?64,Trento, Italy, April 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsGerman Particle Verbs and Pleonastic PrepositionsInes RehbeinNCLTSchool of Computing, DCU,Dublin, Irelandirehbein@computing.dcu.ieJosef van GenabithNCLT,School of Computing, DCU,Dublin, Irelandjosef@computing.dcu.ieAbstractThis paper discusses the behaviour of Ger-man particle verbs formed by two-wayprepositions in combination with pleonas-tic PPs including the verb particle as apreposition.
These particle verbs have acharacteristic feature: some of them li-cense directional prepositional phrases inthe accusative, some only allow for loca-tive PPs in the dative, and some parti-cle verbs can occur with PPs in the ac-cusative and in the dative.
Directional par-ticle verbs together with directional PPspresent an additional problem: the par-ticle and the preposition in the PP seemto provide redundant information.
Thepaper gives an overview of the semanticverb classes influencing this phenomenon,based on corpus data, and explains the un-derlying reasons for the behaviour of theparticle verbs.
We also show how the re-strictions on particle verbs and pleonasticPPs can be expressed in a grammar theorylike Lexical Functional Grammar (LFG).1 IntroductionThe subject of this paper are German particle verbswith pleonastic prepositions (5).
In German thereare nine two-way prepositions which can eithergovern the accusative or the dative: an, auf, hinter,in, neben, ?uber, unter, vor and zwischen.
The dif-ference in case assignment also causes a differentinterpretation of the semantics of the prepositionalphrase: if the preposition governs the dative it ex-presses a locative relation (1), while the accusativegoes together with a directional interpretation (2).
(1) Das Bild h?angt [PP an der Wand].Det Picture hang-3Sg [PP on?dir Detdat wall].
?The picture hangs on the wall.?
(2) Sie h?angt das Bild [PP an die Wand].She hang-3Sg Det picture [PP onto+dir Detacc wall].
?She hangs the picture on the wall.
?The two-way prepositions combined as prefixeswith a verb form the so-called particle verbs (alsocalled separable prefix verbs).
The particles im-plicitly include directional information and canchange the aspectual mode and argument struc-ture of their base verbs.
Particle verbs can be dif-ferentiated according to whether they allow for apleonastic combination with the particle in ques-tion and the resulting syntactic and semantic ef-fects.Olsen (1998) refers to this phenomenon as thePleonastic Directional, where the verb particle al-ready saturates the directional requirement of theverb and therefore there should be no need for afurther preposition offering the same directionalinformation.
However, example (5) shows thatpleonastic directionals can in fact occur with di-rectional PPs, while in (3) the main verb (withoutparticle) combines with a directional PP and in (4)only the particle verb is used.
(3) Sie steigt [PP in das Auto].She climb-3SG [PP into+DIR Det car].
?She gets into the car.?
(4) Sie steigt ein.She climb-3SG Part+DIR.
?She gets in.?
(5) Sie steigt [PP in das Auto] ein.She gets [PP into+DIR Det car] Part+DIR.
?She gets into the car.
?The problem is that it is not clear what licenses57the directional preposition in cases such as (5) andwhy it is not supressed by the verb particle.The base verb in (3) licenses a directional PP,which is part of the argument structure of the verb.If there is a verb particle which saturates this di-rectional requirement (4), then the realisation ofthe PP is optional.
Wunderlich (1983) argues thatparticle verbs require a stereotype or contextuallygiven object equal to the internal argument of theprepositional relation, which can be reconstructedfrom the context and therefore can be omitted.If the directional information is already repre-sented by the particle, then the question ariseswhat licenses the directional PP.
It could be arguedthat the particle should suppress a directional PPor, conversely that the directional PP should sup-press the verb particle.
The question which of thetwo is selected first, the particle verb or the prepo-sition, is discussed controversially.
In a speaker-oriented view the particle verb will be selectedfirst, while the theory of linear sentence processingclaims that the particle, which is only encounteredat the end of the sentence, should be omitted.Particle verbs with pleonastic PPs exhibit an-other interesting property: some of them onlyallow for pleonastic prepositions governing da-tive PPs while others trigger the accusative, andsome particle verbs can even go together with bothcases.
The underlying reasons for those case pref-erences are not completely clear.It is obvious that there are certain verb classeswhose semantics seem to influence the case as-signed by the preposition.
This is strongly con-nected with the influence of directional informa-tion concerning the case preference of the particleverb.
Particle verbs which express directional in-formation trigger PPs in the accusative, while par-ticle verbs whose semantics contain no directionalcomponent never combine with an accusative PP.But why are there also particle verbs which areable to combine with both cases?The aim of this paper is to give an explana-tion for this phenomenon, based on data gainedthrough corpus research.
Section 2 describes char-acteristic features of spatial prepositions and par-ticle verbs.
Section 3 presents a novel corpus-based typology of verb classes triggering differentcase for pleonastic prepositions, accounting forregularities in their observed behaviour.
Section4 provides a novel account of particle verbs withtheir pleonastic prepositions using the frameworkof Lexical Functional Grammar (Bresnan, 2000).The last section summarizes the main results es-tablished in this paper.2 Characteristic Features of ParticleVerbs and Spatial PrepositionsSpatial prepositions are binary relations betweentwo entities, where one of the entities is locatedwith respect to a region defined by the second en-tity, specified through the preposition.
The mean-ing of a two-way preposition depends on the caseof the PP: if it is in the dative, its reading will beinterpreted as a static, non-directional localisation,while the accusative triggers a directional interpre-tation.
In the latter case the preposition implies achange of location of the theme referent from anunspecified region into the neighbouring region ofthe relatum (Witt, 1998).In this paper we only deal with spatial prepo-sitions, ignoring lexicalised prepositions withoutsemantic content, as in (6):(6) Sie wartet auf den Bus.She wait-3Sg for Det bus.
?She is waiting for the bus.
?Dalrymple (2001) refers to (6) as idiosyncraticcase, because the lexical form of the prepositionis not related to the semantic role of the argu-ment, while oblique arguments which are markedaccording to the semantic role of the argument areassigned semantic case.
Particle verbs formed bytwo-way prepositions always have a semantic con-tent.The semantics of verb particles basing on spa-tial prepositions is equivalent to the semantics ofthe prepositions.
They are also binary, but the in-ternal argument of the relation is not explicitly ex-pressed in the argument structure of the complexverb, but can be omitted (see examples (3) and(4)).
The semantics of the particle is integratedinto the semantics of the base verb which requiresa directional complement.In example (5) both particle verb and pleonasticPP occur together.
Here the PP specifies the im-plicit reference object of the particle verb, and itsrelation of localisation is congruent with the direc-tional semantics of the particle.These characteristic features of particle verbsand spatial prepositions are constitutive for theclassification into semantic verb classes given inSection 3.583 Corpus-Based Classification of ParticleVerbs with Pleonastic PrepositionsThe classification of particle verbs with pleonas-tic prepositions into semantic verb classes is basedon the proposals by Witt (1998) extented by theresults of our own corpus research.1 Witt?s clas-sification only considers particle verbs with theparticle ein-.
He divides them into three ma-jor groups: compositional formations, regular for-mations and non-compositional formations, whichcan be further subclassified into more fine-grainedsubclasses (Figure 1).1.
Compositional Formations(a) Verb bases are causative Verbs of Localisation(b) Verb bases are (static) Verbs of Localisation(c) Verb bases are intransitive Verbs of Motion(d) Verb bases are transitive Verbs of Motion(Transport Verbs)2.
Regular Formations(a) Verb Bases are Activity-Verbs(b) Verb Bases are ?eingravieren (to engrave)?-Verbs3.
Non-Compositional Formations: Extensionsof Meaning(a) Verb Bases are ein-Verbs with the meaning:?downward, inward, into itself?
(b) Verb Bases are ein-Verbs with the meaning:?to enclose something?Figure 1: Witt?s (1998) classification of particleverbs with ein-In contrast to Witt, our classification includes alltwo-way prepositions as verb particles.
As we aretrying to explain the behaviour of particle verbs inregard to their ability to combine with pleonasticPPs, we divide the corpus data into the followinggroups: particle verbs licensing pleonastic PPs inthe accusative only (Group A), particle verbs li-censing pleonastic PPs in the dative only (GroupB) and particle verbs which are able to govern ei-ther accusative or dative PPs (Group C).Each of these groups can be divided into a num-ber of subgroups, formed by different semanticverb types.
Figure 2 gives an overview of our clas-sification scheme.1The corpora used for the research are the text basisof the Digital Dictionary of German Language (DWDS)(http://www.dwds.de/textbasis) and the corporaof the Institute of German Language (IDS) in Mannheim(http://www.ids-mannheim.de/cosmas2).1.
Group A (combine only with accusative PPs)(a) Verb bases are (static) Verbs of Localisation(b) Verb bases are intransitive Verbs of Motion(c) Verb bases are transitive Verbs of Motion(Transport Verbs)(d) Verb bases are Verbs of Perception(e) Verb bases express a Change of State2.
Group B (combine only with dative PPs)(a) Verb bases are (static) Verbs of Localisation(b) Verb bases are intransitive Verbs of Motion(c) Verb bases are (causative) Verbs of Position3.
Group C (combine with accusative and dative PPs)(a) Verb bases are intransitive Verbs of Motion(b) Verb bases are transitive Verbs of Motion(Transport Verbs)(c) Verb bases express an Inclusion into anEnvironment, Institution or Abstract Area(d) Verb bases express Effects of Action(eingravieren-Verbs)Figure 2: Classification of particle verbs with two-way prepositions3.1 Group AThe verbs in Group A licence PPs in the accusativeand have a directional reading.
Group A includesVerbs of Motion, Verbs of Localisation, TransportVerbs, and two further subgroups: verbs whosemeaning can be interpreted as a Direction of Per-ception and verbs which express the Localisationof a Change of State.Verbs of Motion include einfahren ?to driveinto?
or aufspringen ?to jump on?
and can be de-fined as follows: there is an X which undergoesa change of location, whereby X is in a particu-lar manner of motion and moves in the specifieddirection into a not further specified neighbour re-gion which is defined through the relatum.Verbs of Localisation licencing PPs in the ac-cusative are rather rare.
Only one example isattested in the corpus: einm?unden ?to dischargeinto?.
Here an X is described, which can be lo-calised relativ to a Y in a particular direction.
Therarity of those verbs is probably due to the morestatic character of localisation, which contradictsthe implicit directional reading of the accusativecase marking.Transport Verbs such as eingie?en ?to pourin?, einf?uhren ?to insert?
and also verbs with moremetaphorical readings like einbinden (in die Kon-59ventionen einbinden, ?to weave sth into social con-ventions?
), can be defined in the following way:there is an X which causes a change of locationfor a Y, whereby Y is set into a particular mannerof motion and is moved in a specified direction.Direction of Perception verbs includeeinf?uhlen ?to empathise?, einsehen ?to see?
oreinh?oren ?to listen?.Localisation of a Change of State verbs in-clude aufbl?ahen ?to bloat?, aufheizen ?to heat up?,angleichen ?to conform to something?
or aufrun-den ?to round up?.
Here the particle expresses thedirection to the changed, new state.All particle verbs in Group A can be interpretedas having a directional reading.3.2 Group BParticle Verbs in Group B licence pleonastic PPsin the dative.
They can be divided into the fol-lowing subgroups: Verbs of Localisation, Verbs ofMovement and Position Verbs.Verbs of Localisation also occur in Group A,but here they have a static, non-directional inter-pretation of localisation.
Examples for this areverbs like einquartieren ?to quarter?, anstehen ?toqueue?, auiegen ?to bear on?
or zwischenlagern?to store temporarily?.
(7) anPART stehen(PART + to stand?
to queue).More formally they can be described as follows:There is an X which is in a particular state (e.g.in the state of standing) and can be localised in aspecific relation to a reference object.Verbs of Motion include vorfahren ?to driveup?
or hinterherhecheln ?to pand after someone?.They can be defined as follows: there is an Xwhich undergoes a change of location, whereby Xis in a particular manner of motion, moving intothe specified direction relative to the position ofthe relatum.
These verbs clearly include an im-plicit direction, but in comparison to the Verbs ofMotion in Group A their reading allows for thepossibility that X is already in the same region asthe relatum, while the verbs in Group A describethe intrusion of an X from the outside into a notfurther specified neighbour region.Verbs of Position include aufstellen ?to array?,aufbahren ?to lay out?
or hinterlegen ?to deposit?.The definition states that there is an X whichcauses a Y to change its position, whereby Y isin a particular manner of motion, moving into aspecified direction.
The focus hereby is not on themovement but on the result of the event.The verbs in Group B normaly have a nondi-rectional, static interpretation, but they may alsoallow for a directional interpretation, if theme ref-erent and relatum are both positioned in the samespecified region (8).
(8) Sie stellt die Leiter [PP auf dem Podest] auf.She put-3-Sg Det ladder [PP on Det platform] Part.
?She puts the ladder up on the platform.
?Here it is not the direction of a motion which isdescribed by the particle (the ladder may alreadyhave been lying on the platform), but a change ofthe orientation of the referent in relation to the re-latum (the ladder has changed its orientation andis in a more or less vertical position now).3.3 Group CGroup C consists of particle verbs which can befollowed by a pleonastic PP in the accusative ordative.
The subgroups of Group C include Verbsof Motion like einsickern ?to soak into?, ein-marschieren ?to march in?, ansp?ulen ?to be washedup?
or vorladen ?to subpoena?, and TransportVerbs such as aufh?angen ?to hang?, einschieben?to insert?, einr?aumen ?to place in?
or andocken ?todock?.
Group C also consists of verbs which ex-press an Inclusion into an Environment, Institu-tion or Abstract Area like eingliedern ?to incor-porate?, zwischenschalten ?to interpose?, aufrei-hen ?to string?
or auff?adeln ?to bead?.
Anotherverb group which belongs to Group C are verbswhich express the Localisation of Effects of Ac-tion like einpr?agen ?to impress?, einbrennen ?toburn-in?, eint?atowieren ?to tattoo?
or aufdrucken?to imprint?.The following example illustrates the semanticeffect of the choice of case for the PP for the verbsin Group C:(9) sickert in die Erde einsoak.3.Sg in Det.Acc soil PART?soaks into the soil?
(10) sickert in der Erde einsoak.3.Sg in Det.Dat soil PART?soaks the soil?Example (9) describes an event where an X60(rainwater) undergoes a directed motion duringwhich it enters into the region of the reference ob-ject Y (the soil).
In (10) the situation is different:X is already located in the region of Y and nowis in the process of soaking through that region.Figure 3 gives an illustration of the two examples.Figure 3: Illustration of examples (9) and (10)Characteristic for the verbs in Group C is theirdirectionality reading when going together with apleonastic PP in the accusative.
When they arecombined with the dative, the particle still has itsdirectional character, but in contrast to the parti-cle verbs in Group A the directionality does notinclude an intrusion into another region but canbe interpreted as a movement inside of the regiongiven by the reference object.Summarizing the results we can say that forGroup C the particle can have different functionswhich influence the choice of case marking for thePPs governed by the verb.
If the particle has anondirectional reading, then only PPs in the dativeare allowed.
If the particle expresses directionalinformation, then a further analysis is needed: ithas to be examined whether the semantics of theparticle verb includes the intrusion into a new re-gion specified by the preposition.
In this case thePP has to be in the accusative.
If the semantics ofthe verb does not express an intrusion into a newregion, then the dative is chosen.
Only particleverbs whose semantics allow for a directional anda locative interpretation belong to group C.In Section 2 we noted that the semantics of theverb particle is equivalent to the semantics of thepreposition, and that the PP specifies the implicitreference object of the particle verb.
However, thisis only true for PPs with accusative case marking.The prepositions in PPs which are in the dative ex-press a locative relation rather than a direction, sotheir reference object can not be the same as theone implicitly included in the verb particle.
On thesyntactic level this results in them having a differ-ent grammatical function: the accusative PP canbe considered as a verb complement, while the da-tive PP is a free adjunct, modifying the informa-tion of the verb particle.
Therefore only accusativePPs are ?pleonastic?.4 Description of Particle Verbs withPleonastic Prepositions in LFGThis section will show how the framework of Lex-ical Functional Grammar (LFG) can be used todescribe the particular behaviour of particle verbsand pleonastic prepositions.4.1 Short Introduction to LFGLFG has a layer of representation for constituentstructure (c-structure), where surface informationis expressed through CFG trees, and a func-tional layer (f-structure) for expressing grammat-ical functions such as subject, object and adjunct.In the f-structure each argument of a predicate isassigned a particular grammatical function.
Thistwo-level representation is based on the idea thatwhile surface representations may differ consider-ably between various languages, f-structures tendto be more abstract and invariant representations.The correspondence between the two layers ismany-to-one: different nodes in the c-structuremay be associated with the same f-structure com-ponent.
The c-structure is determined by phrasestructure rules as in (11), while the annotation in(12) links the c-structure categories to the corre-sponding grammatical functions in the f-structure.
(11) S ?
NP VP(12) (?
SUBJ)= ?
?=?LFG is a non-transformational theory, syntacticphenomena are treated locally through the specifi-cation of rules and constraints in the lexicon.4.2 Using LFG to Describe Particle Verbswith Pleonastic PrepositionsThe LFG formalisation developed here followsand substantially extends the treatment of particleverbs and prepositional phrases in the LFG gram-mar for German in (Berman and Frank, 1996) and(Butt, King, Nin?o and Segond, 1999).4.2.1 Berman & Frank (1996)Figure 4 shows the lexical entry for the Germanparticle verb einfahren ?to drive into?
as describedin (Berman and Frank, 1996).61fahren V(?
PRED)=?EINFAHREN<?SUBJ), (?
OBL DIR)>?(?
FORM)=c EIN(?
VERBTYPE)=PARTICLE VERB...ein PART(?
FORM)=EINFigure 4: Lexical entry for einfahren ?to drive in?
(Berman and Frank, 1996)The predicate (PRED) shows the argumentstructure of the verb, while the attribute VERB-TYPE explicitly describes the verb as a particleverb.
The FORM attribute contains the lexicalform of the particle and is formulated as a con-straint (=c) to check that the particle is lexicallyfilled.
The particle itself has no PRED value of itsown but is analysed as part of the complex verb.German prepositional phrases can either occuras prepositional objects or as adjuncts.
Accord-ing to Berman and Frank (1996) the second groupis further subdivided into adjuncts which are sub-categorized by the verb and free adjuncts.
Accord-ingly, in the analysis of (Berman and Frank, 1996),each two-way preposition has three lexical entries.In their analysis, prepositional objects are gov-erned by the verb and have no PRED attribute oftheir own.
The lexical form of the preposition andalso its case are determined by the verb.
The valueof the PCASE attribute is assigned the lexical formof the preposition, while the preposition is not ableto subcategorize an object.2As for adjuncts subcategorized by the verb noparticular preposition is selected in (Berman andFrank, 1996), but the verb determines the seman-tic content of the preposition (eg: LOC, DIR).
Thepreposition has its own PRED attribute and sub-categorizes an object (Figure 5).auf P(?
PRED)=?LOC<?OBJ)>?(?
PCASE)=LOC(?
PDET)=-.Figure 5: Lexical entry (Berman & Frank, 1996)for preposition auf ?on?
(adjunct subcategorizedby the verb)Free adjuncts on the other hand must have the2Prepositional objects are of no concern here, because thepaper deals with spatial prepositions which always have a se-mantic content.semantic content LOC.
Like the first type of ad-juncts they have their own PRED attribute andsubcategorize an object, but their semantic contentis defined by the ROLE attribute (Figure 6).auf P(?
PRED)=?OBL LOCAL<?OBJ)>?(?
ROLE)=LOCAL(?
OBJ AGR CAS GOV)=+(?
OBJ AGR CAS OBL)=+(?
PDET)=-.Figure 6: Lexical entry (Berman & Frank, 1996)for auf ?on?
(free adjunct)4.2.2 Formalisation of Group C VerbsWe concentrate on the formalisation of the par-ticle verbs in Group C which can either licence apleonastic PP in the accusative or a PP in the da-tive.
Extending the analysis in (Berman and Frank,1996) we provide two f-structure configurations,depending on the case of the governed PP.Figure 7 shows the f-structure for example (9).Here the pleonastic PP in the accusative saturatesthe argument OBL DIR subcategorized by the par-ticle verb.
Figure 8 gives the f-structure for exam-ple (10), where the particle verb combines with adative PP.??????????
?PRED einsickern < SUBJ,OBL DIR >OBL DIR??????
?PRED in < OBJ >PART?
FORM einPCASE DIRPSEM +OBJ[ PRED ErdeSPEC dieCASE acc]?????????????????
?Figure 7: sickert [ PP in die Erde ]ACC ein?soaks into the soil?In contrast to Figure 7 the dative PP in Figure8 does not contribute any information to the argu-ment OBL DIR subcategorized by the verb but isrepresented in the adjunct set.
The verb particlesaturizes the OBL DIR argument, and the PREDattribute of the object of OBL DIR is assigned thevalue PRO.
This enables the PRED value to be-have like a variable which can be unified with anyother value as in Figure 8, where both the particleand the pleonastic prepositional phrases add infor-mation to OBL DIR:OBJ:PRED.62????????????????????
?PRED einsickern < SUBJ,OBL DIR >OBL DIR?????
?PRED in < OBJ >PART?
FORM einPCASE DIRPSEM +OBJ[PRED PROCASE acc]??????ADJ????????????????
?PRED in < OBJ >PCASE LOCPSEM +OBJ[ PRED ErdeSPEC derCASE dat]?????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 8: sickert [ PP in der Erde ]DAT ein?soaks (through) the soil?4.2.3 Lexical Entries and Grammar RulesIn the f-structure in Figure 7 the pleonastic PPis subcategorized by the particle verb.
Figure 9shows the corresponding lexical entry for the verb.To prevent a locative PP in the dative from fill-ing in the object position of the verb argument thelexical entry specifies that the object has to be as-signed accusative case.einsickern V(?
PRED) = ?einsickern<(?
SUBJ, ?
OBL DIR)>?(?
OBL DIR:PART-FORM) = ein(?
OBL DIR:OBJ:CASE) = accFigure 9: Lexical entry for einsickern ?to soak?However, as shown in example (4) the pleonas-tic PP can be omitted.
In this case the argumentOBL DIR subcategorized by the particle verb isprovided by the particle ein- whose lexical entry isgiven in Figure 10.ein PART(?
PRED) = ?in<(?
OBJ)>?(?
PART-FORM) = ein(?
PCASE) = DIR(?
PSEM) = +(?
OBJ PRED ) = PROFigure 10: Lexical entry for the particle einIn contrast to (Berman and Frank, 1996), in ourrepresentation the particle is assigned the PREDvalue ?in?
in the lexicon.
The cause for the diver-gence between the lexical form of the particle andits PRED value is due to the fact that the particleein- historically is derived from the preposition inand regarding its semantic features is comparableto the other two-way prepositions where particleand preposition have the same lexical form.The attributes PSEM and PCASE are added tothe representation of the verb particles in Bermanand Frank (1996).
They are derived from the at-tribute set for prepositions, indicating the anal-ogy in the semantics of particle and preposition.PSEM always has the value ?+?
for particle verbsformed by spatial prepositions, because they al-ways have a semantic content.
The attributePCASE expresses the directionality in the seman-tics of the verb particle ( (?
PCASE) = DIR).The predicate of the particle licences an objectand behaves like a directional preposition.
How-ever, the object position is not lexically filled andtherefore is assigned the predicate value ?PRO?.We also want to model the behaviour of the par-ticle verb governing a locative PP in the dative(Figure 8).
The lexical entry of the particle verb(Figure 9) explicitly requires accusative case as-signment and prevents the locative dative PP fromfilling in the object position of the verb argument.The locative dative PP is attached to the adjunctset in the grammar rule shown in Figure 11.3VP?
V ?=?PP * ?
?
( ?
ADJ)(?
OBJ CASE) 6= acc(PP (?
OBL DIR) = ?
)PART (?
OBL DIR) = ?.Figure 11: Grammar Rule specifying restrictionson particle verbs with pleonastic PPsThe first PP in the grammar rule models the be-haviour of a particle verb combining with one ormore locative PPs in the dative.
The constraint(?
OBJ CASE) 6= acc ensures that this part of therule will not be applied to a pleonastic PP with ac-cusative case assignment.4The second PP in the grammar rule captures apleonastic PP in the accusative.
The restrictionthat this PP has to be in the accusative is specifiedin the lexical entry for the particle verb (Figure10).
The last part of the rule expresses that the verbparticle PART is also mapped to the OBL DIR ar-3For expository purposes we use a simple VP rather thana topological analysis.4The Kleene * notation indicates zero or more occurencesof PP.63gument of the complex verb and so is able to satu-rate the argument structure of the verb.The formalisation in Figure 8 and 9 is consistentwith the analysis that the particle has an implicitreference object which is identical to the object ofa pleonastic PP in the accusative, but not to theobject of a dative PP.
The formalisation gives anadequate description of the behaviour of particleverbs in Group C, but it does not suppress the li-cencing of a pleonastic accusative PP for verbs inGroup B which combine with locative PPs in thedative only.
This problem is solved through thespecification of a constraint (=c) in the lexical en-tries for all particle verbs in Group B (Figure 12).vorfahren V(?
PRED) = ?vorfahren<(?
SUBJ, ?
OBL DIR)>?(?
OBL DIR:PART-FORM) = vor(?
OBL DIR:OBJ:CASE) = acc(?
OBL DIR:OBJ:PRED) =c PROFigure 12: Lexical entry for vorfahren ?to driveup?
(Group B)The constraint checks that the predicate of theobject in the OBL DIR f-structure is instantiatedwith the value ?PRO?.
For all cases where the pred-icate is lexically realised, the constraint fails andthus the interpretation of pleonastic accusative PPsin the OBL DIR position for Group B verbs is sup-pressed.5 ConclusionsThe aim of this paper is to explain the behaviour ofGerman particle verbs formed by two-way prepo-sitions and their ability to combine with pleonasticPPs.
A classification of particle verbs based on se-mantic criteria was given, illustrating the restric-tions imposed on their behaviour.
It was shownthat particle verbs occurring only with accusativePPs (Group A) always have a directional read-ing including the intrusion of the theme referentinto a region specified by the relatum.
Particleverbs which can not combine with an accusativePP (Group B) either have a static, nondirectionalreading or describe a directed movement wherethe referent already may be present in the regionspecified by the relatum.Syntactically this results in the fact that theaccusative PP is able to saturate the argumentOBL DIR subcategorized by the particle verbs inGroup A.
The dative PP functions as an adjunct(Group B).
Here the verb particle saturates the di-rectional OBL DIR argument required by the verb.Group C verbs allow both accusative and dativePPs.
Only particle verbs governing PPs in the ac-cusative are pleonastic, but the PP either modifiesor adds new information to the inherent argumentstructure of the particle verb and therefore is notsuppressed by the verb particle.Our formalisation describes the behaviour ofparticle verbs concerning their ability to licencepleonastic PPs.
The semantic criteria restrictingthe behaviour of the particle verbs are embed-ded into the LFG representation and enable usto model the semantic differences on a syntacticlevel.ReferencesJudith Berman and Anette Frank.
1996.
Deutsche undfranzo?sische Syntax im Formalismus der LFG.
MaxNiemeyer Verlag, Tu?bingen.Joan Bresnan.
2000.
Lexical-Functional Syntax.Blackwell.Miriam Butt, Tracy Holloway King, Mar?
?a-EugeniaNino and Fre?de?rique Segond.
1999.
A GrammarWriter?s Cookbook.
CSLI Publications, Stanford,California.Mary Dalrymple.
2001.
Syntax and Semantics.
LexicalFunctional Grammar, volume 34.
Academic Press,San Diego, California.Junji Okamoto.
2002.
Particle-Bound Directions inGerman Particle Verb Constructions.
ProjektberichtV: Typological Investigation of Languages and Cul-tures of the East and West.
(Part II).Susan Olsen.
1998.
Semantische und konzeptuelleAspekte der Partikelverbbildung mit ein-.
Stauffen-burg, Tu?bingen.James Witt.
1998.
Kompositionalita?t und Regularita?t,In: Olsen, Susan (ed).
Semantische und konzeptuelleAspekte der Partikelverbbildung mit ein-.
Stauffen-burg, Tu?bingen.Dieter Wunderlich.
1983.
On the Compositionality ofGerman Prefix Verbs.
In: R. Ba?uerle, Ch.
Schwarzeand A. von Stechow (eds.)
Meaning, Use and Inter-pretation of Language.
de Gruyter, Berlin.64
