Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 91?92,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsBioKI:Enzymes ?
an adaptable system to locate low-frequency informationin full-text proteomics articlesSabine Bergler, Jonathan Schuman, Julien Dubuc, Alexandr LebedevThe CLaC LaboratoryDepartment of Computer Science and Software EngineeringConcordia University, 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, Montreal, Quebec, H3G 1M8bioki@cs.concordia.ca1 GoalsBioKI:Enzymes is a literature navigation system thatuses a two-step process.
First, full-text articles areretrieved from PubMed Central (PMC).
Then, foreach article, the most relevant passages are identifiedaccording to a set of user selected keywords, and thearticles are ranked according to the pertinence of therepresentative passages.In contrast to most existing systems in informa-tion retrieval (IR) and information extraction (IE) forbioinformatics, BioKI:Enzymes processes full-textarticles, not abstracts.
Full-text articles1 permit tohighlight low-frequency information?i.e.
informa-tion that is not redundant, that does not necessarilyoccur in many articles, and within each article, maybe expressed only once (most likely in the body ofthe article, not the abstract).
It contrasts thus withGoPubMed (Doms and Schroeder, 2005), a cluster-ing system that retrieves abstracts using PMC searchand clusters them according to terms from the GeneOntology (GO).Scientists face two major obstacles in using IRand IE technology: how to select the best keywordsfor an intended search and how to assess the validityand relevance of the extracted information.To address the latter problem, BioKI providesconvenient access to different degrees of context byallowing the user to view the information in threedifferent formats.
At the most abstract level, theranked list of articles provides the first five lines ofthe most pertinent text segment selected by BioKI(similar to the snippets provided by Google).
Click-ing on the article link will open a new window with a1Only articles that are available in HTML format can cur-rently be processed.side-by-side view of the full-text article as retrievedthrough PMC on the left and the different text seg-ments2, ordered by their relevance to the user se-lected keywords, on the right.
The user has thus thepossibility to assess the information in the context ofthe text segment first, and in the original, if desired.2 Keyword-based RankingTo address the problem of finding the best keywords,BioKI:Enzymes explores different approaches.
Forresearch in enzymology, our users specified a stan-dard pattern of information retrieval, which is re-flected in the user interface.Enzymes are proteins that catalyze reactions dif-ferently in different environments (pH and tem-perature).
Enzymes are characterized by the sub-strate they act on and by the product of their catal-ysis.
Accordingly, a keyphrase pattern has enti-ties (that tended to recur) prespecified for selectionin four categories: enzymes, their activities (suchas carbohydrate degrading), their qualities (suchas maximum activity), and measurements (such aspH).
The provided word lists are not exhaustiveand BioKI:Enzymes expects the user to specify newterms (which are not required to conceptually fit thecategory).
The word lists are convenient for select-ing alternate spellings that might be hard to enter (?-amylase) and for setting up keyphrase templates in aprole, which can be stored under a name and laterreused.
Completion of the keyword lists is providedthrough stemming and the equivalent treatment ofGreek characters and their different transliterations.The interface presents the user with a search win-dow, which has two distinct fields, one to specify2We use TextTiler (Hearst, 1997) to segment the article.91the search terms for the PMC search, the other tospecify the (more fine-grained) keywords the sys-tem uses to select the most relevant passages in thetexts and to rank the texts based on this choice.
TheBioKI specific keywords can be chosen from thefour categories of keyword lists mentioned above orentered.
What distinguishes BioKI:Enzymes is thedirect control the user has over the weight of the key-words in the ranking and the general mode of con-sidering the keywords.
Each of the four keywordcategories has a weight associated with it.
In ad-dition, bonus scores can be assigned for keywordsthat co-occur at a distance less than a user-definedthreshold.
The two modes of ranking are a basic?and?, where the weight and threshold settings areignored and the text segment that has the most spec-ified keywords closest together will be ranked high-est.
This is the mode of choice for a targeted searchfor specific information, like ?pH optima?
in a PMCsubcorpus for amylase.The other mode is a basic ?or?, with additionalpoints for the co-occurrence of keywords within thesame text segment.
Here, the co-occurrence bonusis given for terms from the four different lists, notfor terms from the same list.
While the search spaceis much too big for a scientist to control all these de-grees of freedom without support, our initial exper-iments have shown that we could control the rank-ing behavior with repeated refinements of the weightsettings, and even simulate the behavior of an ?and?by judicious weight selection.3 Assessment and Future WorkThe evaluation of a ranking of full-text articles, forwhich there are no Gold standards as of yet, is dif-ficult and begins in the anecdotal.
Our experts didnot explore the changes in ranking based on differ-ent weight settings, but found the ?and?
to be justwhat they wanted from the system.
We will ex-periment with different weight distribution patternsto see whether a small size of different weight set-tings can be specified for predictable behavior andwhether this will have better acceptance.The strength of BioKI lies in its adaptability touser queries.
In this it contrasts with template-basedIE systems like BioRAT (Corney et al, 2004), whichextracts information from full-length articles, butuses handcoded templates to do so.
Since BioKIis not specific to an information need, but is meantto give more control to the user and thus facilitateaccess to any type of PMC search results, it is im-portant that the same PMC search results can be re-ordered by successively refining the selected BioKIkeywords until more desirable texts appear at thetop.
This behavior is modeled after frequent behav-ior using search engines such as Google, where of-ten the first search serves to better select keywordsfor a subsequent, better targeted search.
This rerank-ing based on keyword refinement can be done al-most instantaneously (20 sec for 480 keyphrases on161 articles), since the downloaded texts from PMCare cached, and since the system spends most of itsruntime downloading and storing the articles fromPMC.
This is currently a feasibility study, targeted toeventually become a Web service.
Performance stillneeds to be improved (3:14 min for 1 keyphrase on161 articles, including downloading), but the qualityof the ranking and variable context views might stillentice users to wait for them.In conclusion, it is feasible to develop a highlyuser-adaptable passage highlighting system overfull-text articles that focuses on low-frequency infor-mation.
This adaptability is provided both throughincreased user control of the ranking parameters andthrough presentation of results in different contextswhich at the same time justify the ranking and au-thenticate keyword occurrences in their source text.AcknowledgmentsThe rst prototype of BioKI was implemented by Evan Desai.We thank our domain experts Justin Powlowski, Emma Masters,and Regis-Olivier Benech.
Work funded by Genome Quebec.ReferencesD.
P. A. Corney, B.F. Buxton, W.B.
Langdon, and D.T.
Jones.2004.
BioRAT: Extracting biological information from full-length papers.
Bioinformatics, 20(17):3206?3213.Andreas Doms and Michael Schroeder.
2005.
GoPubMed: ex-ploring PubMed with the Gene Ontology.
Nucleic Acids Re-search, 33:W783?W786.
Web Server issue.M.A.
Hearst.
1997.
Texttiling: Segmenting text into multi-paragraph subtopic passages.
Computational Linguistics,23(1):34?64.92
