Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 29?36,Trento, Italy, April 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic Interpretation of Prepositions for NLP ApplicationsSven Hartrumpf Hermann Helbig Rainer OsswaldIntelligent Information and Communication Systems (IICS)University of Hagen (FernUniversita?t in Hagen)58084 Hagen, GermanyFirstname.Lastname@fernuni-hagen.deAbstractThe proper interpretation of prepositionsis an important issue for automatic natu-ral language understanding.
We presentan approach towards PP interpretation aspart of a natural language understandingsystem which has been successfully em-ployed in various NLP tasks for informa-tion retrieval and question answering.
Ourapproach is based on the so-called Multi-Net paradigm, a knowledge representationformalism especially designed for the rep-resentation of natural language semantics.The paper describes how the informationabout the semantic interpretation of PPs isrepresented in the lexicon and in PP inter-pretation rules and how this informationis used during semantic analysis.
More-over, we report on experiments that eval-uate the impact of using this informationabout PP interpretation on the CLEF ques-tion answering task.1 IntroductionAdvanced NLP applications such as question an-swering require deep semantic interpretation.
Inthis context, prepositions play an important rolesince they encode relational information.
Theproper semantic analysis of prepositional phrasesis faced with various problems: (1) There is thewell-known problem of attachment ambiguities.
(2) Prepositions are highly polysemous, i.e.
theirinterpretation is typically context dependent.
(3)Prepositions often occur in collocations, wheretheir interpretation is irregular.Although a large amount of work in the NLPcommunity has focused on resolving attachmentambiguities, there are only first steps towardsa systematic description of preposition seman-tics which has sufficient coverage for NLP appli-cations (Litkowski and Hargraves, 2005; Saint-Dizier, 2005).
The automatic interpretation ofprepositions in English has been tackled, for ex-ample, by Litkowski (2002), who presents hand-crafted disambiguation rules, and O?Hara andWiebe (2003), who propose a statistical approachbased on collocations.
However, in order to be ap-plicable for semantic inference, the representationof preposition semantics should ideally be inte-grated within a full-fledged knowledge represen-tation formalism.In spite of the broad linguistic investigationson preposition semantics,1 the corresponding re-sults have seldom found their way into real NLPapplications.
Information retrieval systems, onthe other hand, which claim to use NLP tech-niques often do not cope with the semantic con-tent of prepositions at all (even if they bear theterm semantic in their title, as with Latent Se-mantic Analysis (Letsche and Berry, 1997)).
Inmany cases prepositions are even dropped as stopwords in such systems.
If one really wants tosyntactico-semantically analyze texts and deriveformal semantic representations, the interpretationof prepositions and especially the disambiguationof their different readings is a central problemin Indoeuropean languages like English, French,Russian, and German.In this paper we describe the semantic treat-ment of this problem for German, using the knowl-edge representation formalism of MultilayeredExtended Semantic Networks (MultiNet) (Helbig,2006).
The advantage of this approach is its appli-cability to different languages and different pro-cesses of automatic natural language understand-ing.
Since MultiNet complies with the criteriaof universality, homogeneity, and interoperability(Helbig, 2006, Chapter 1), it can be used to for-malize the semantics of lexemes (Hartrumpf et al,1See also the overview given in (Zelinski-Wibbelt, 1993).29Table 1: Classes of PP interpretationcomplement adjunctregular She lives inBerlin.They met in Au-gust.irregular He believes indestiny.He was killed onthe run.2003) as well as that of sentences and texts (see(Leveling and Hartrumpf, 2005), where Multi-Net has been employed for semantic annotation oflarge corpora).
It can also be used as a seman-tic interlingua throughout all NLP modules and allapplications of an NLP system (Leveling, 2005).Typical applications that can profit from a precisePP interpretation component are question answer-ing (QA) systems and natural language interfaces.2 General Classes of PP InterpretationThe semantic interpretation of prepositions inNLP has to deal with the following two orthogonalphenomena: regular (or compositional or produc-tive) vs. irregular (or non-compositional or col-locative) uses of prepositions and uses in comple-ments vs. uses in adjuncts (putting aside the well-known issue of borderline cases).2 There are thusthe four cases indicated in Table 1.
In German,PPs can occur also as invariant syntagmas in lightverb constructions (?Funktionsverbgefu?ge?)
suchas in Beschlag nehmen (?to occupy?
), to which thecomplement-adjunct distinction does not apply.
Inthe following, we keep aside the interpretation ofprepositions in fixed phrases, which is the casefor the light verb constructions just mentioned andalso for the irregular adjunct interpretation shownat the lower right of Table 1.
This leaves us withthree types of PP interpretation: (regular) adjunctinterpretation, regular complement interpretation,and irregular complement interpretation.The standard examples for regular adjunct in-terpretation are local (or directional) and temporalPPs, which can be attached to verbs, nouns, andadjectives:(1) a.
He walked to the museum.b.
They met in August.
(2) a. the building on the hillb.
the debate on Wednesday2See also (Rauh, 1993).
(3) a. dastheininEuropaEuropebeliebtepopularSpielgame?the game that is popular in Europe?b.
dastheiminWinterwinterdunkledarkHaushouse?the house that is dark in winter?Notice that German, unlike English, allows ad-jectives with PP adjuncts (or complements) as at-tributes of nouns, witness (3).It is characteristic of regular adjunct interpre-tation that the preposition has a meaning of itsown and expresses some sort of relationship.
Be-sides local and temporal specifications, there areof course many other relationships expressed byregular PP adjuncts such as instrumental (4-a),comitative (4-b), and part-whole (4-c) interpreta-tions.3(4) a. John cleaned the floor with his shirt.b.
Mary visited London with her sister.c.
a building with large windowsThe examples in (4) furthermore illustrate the wellknown fact that prepositions are highly polyse-mous in general.
Within our approach describedin Sect.
4, prepositions currently have up to six-teen readings.4We speak of a regular complement interpreta-tion if the PP is subcategorized and its interpre-tation is identical to the (correct) interpretation ofthe PP when analyzed as an adjunct.
These adjunctinterpretations of PPs are defined by the set of PPrules, which are explained in Sect.
4.2.
Exam-ples of regular complements are wohnen in/auf/.
.
.
(?to live in/on/.
.
.
?
), schicken nach/in/.
.
.
(?tosend to/into/.
.
.
?
), mitkommen mit (?to come alongwith?
), and Einstieg in (?getting in?).
Here, thechoice of the preposition in the PP complement ofthe lexeme is determined by the semantic charac-terization of the complement.In the case of irregular complement interpreta-tion, in contrast, the selection of the prepositionis an idiosyncratic property of the subcategorizinglexical entry.
The preposition alone can be viewedas semantically empty; only the combination of3In our approach, 91 different relations occur, often incombinations; see Sect.
4.2.4The average number of readings is 2.44, which is slightlyhigher than the polysemy degree 2.27 (= 847/373) reportedby Litkowski and Hargraves (2005) for English.
But our lexi-con currently contains only few phrasal (or complex) preposi-tions like in Anbetracht (?in view of?
), which often have onlyone reading.30the lexeme and the preposition bears semantics.Examples for verbs, adjectives, and nouns of thissort are glauben an (?to belief in?
), sich verlassenauf (?to depend on?
), gut in (?good at?
), and Wutauf (?anger at?
).It should be noted, however, that there is awhole spectrum of subregular phenomena withinwhat we called ?irregular?
complement seman-tics.5 Consider, for instance, the verbs ernennenzu, bestimmen zu (?appoint?, ?designate?
), ku?renzu (?elect?
), and weihen zu (?ordain?).
Even if thepreposition zu (?to?)
could be said to semanticallyexpress some sort of abstract goal in these cases,an adequate interpretation rule associated with thatpreposition would have to make reference to arather restricted semantic class of verbs.
We re-gard it therefore as a matter of lexical semanticorganization to capture such subregularities withinthe interpretation of prepositional complements bymeans of appropriate semantic verb templates inthe lexicon; see (Osswald et al, 2006) for details.In the context of the present paper, an interpreta-tion of a prepositional complement is called irreg-ular if the interpretation is not covered by one ofour PP interpretation rules.Table 2 show the frequency of adjunct and com-plement interpretations in different corpora.
Thenumbers in the token rows are derived from auto-matic corpus parses (see below), so there is somenoise to be expected, but the trends should bevalid.3 The Semantic Formalism MultiNetMultiNet is one of the few knowledge represen-tation paradigms which have also been used asa semantic interlingua in real-life NLP applica-tions (Leveling and Helbig, 2002).
The Multi-Net formalism represents meanings of natural lan-guage expressions by means of (partial) semanticnetworks.
A semantic network consists of nodesrepresenting concepts and edges representing re-lations between concepts.
Every node is addition-ally labeled by a sort arising from an ontologi-cally or epistemically motivated classification ofconcepts (see Appendix, Table 4).
Apart fromthat, every node is embedded in a system of layerattributes and their values expressing the exten-sion type, facticity, genericity, referential deter-mination, quantification, and others.
The rela-5See also the discussion in (Baldwin, 2005) on preposi-tional verbs in English.tions connecting the concepts in a semantic net-work have to be taken from a predefined set ofexpressional means, which are systematically de-scribed and formally characterized (Helbig, 2006).A strongly abbreviated description of all MultiNetrelations used in this paper can be found in Table 5of the Appendix.For the semantic characterization of the selec-tional restrictions (i.e.
valencies) of lexemes, anadditional set of 16 binary semantic features (suchas animate, human, artificial, movable, and institu-tion) is provided, which can be combined with theabove-mentioned sorts to yield a rich repertoire ofsemantical characterizations for the description ofthe slots and fillers corresponding to the valencies.These expressional means have been used in thecomputational lexicon HaGenLex (see Sect.
4.1).4 Resources for PP InterpretationThree sources of preposition information are avail-able to the syntactico-semantic parser used in ourNLP applications:6 subcategorization informationin the lexicon, context dependent PP interpretationrules, and an annotated PP corpus.4.1 Selection of PPs in the LexiconOur parser makes use of the computational lex-icon HaGenLex (Hagen German Lexicon, see(Hartrumpf et al, 2003)), which is a general do-main lexicon for German with about 25,000 en-tries (including 136 prepositions).
Each entry con-tains detailed morpho-syntactic and semantic in-formation.
In particular, the lexicon provides va-lency frames for nouns, verbs, and adjectives (inthe lexical feature SELECT).
This includes com-plements that are syntactically realized by a PP.Each complement is characterized by one or moresyntactic specifications and its semantic contribu-tion to the head word.
This contribution can be aMultiNet relation (case role) or a more complexMultiNet expression directly or indirectly con-necting the representation of the complement andof the head, which typically involves other com-plements.In order to capture semantic constraints on pos-sible adjuncts, the set of semantic relations com-patible with a given lexeme is specified in the lex-icon (under the lexical feature COMPAT-R).
Thisinformation is inherited from the semantic class6See (Hartrumpf, 2003, Chap.
3) for a description of theparser.31Table 2: Class frequencies in corpora.corpus adjunct complement regular ones among com-plements (verbs only)German QA@CLEF documents 80.6% 19.4% 17.5%German Wikipedia (March 2005) 80.1% 19.9% ?of the lexeme so that the set of all possible ad-junct readings for a PP (see next section) can befiltered.
Lexical entries exemplifying both aspectsare listed in Fig.
1.4.2 Interpretation Rules for PrepositionsThe second knowledge source for PP interpreta-tion are symbolic PP interpretation rules devel-oped for adjunct interpretations.
The premise ofsuch a rule encodes under which semantic andsyntactic constraints a specific preposition inter-pretation is possible; the conclusion specifies asemantic network representing the PP semantics.Two simplified interpretation rules are shown inFig.
2; the effect of the second rule is depicted inFig.
3.
The rules are licensing possible interpreta-tions; if several rule premises can be unified witha given pair of a preposition?s complement and acandidate mother, the PP disambiguation moduleretreats to a statistical back-off model to resolvethis ambiguity.
Currently, we have 332 rules.The interpretation rules can be viewed as adeclarative part of the corresponding prepositionentry in the lexicon.
For maintenance reasons, therules are stored and manipulated separately.
Theyare linked to the lexicon by lexeme IDs.The rules show that PP semantics involves manyareas of semantics.
For example, MultiNet definesaround 150 relations and 91 of them are used inthe conclusion of PP rules.
The 10 most frequentones are: LOC, VAL, TEMP, ATTR, ELMT, ATTCH,DIRCL, INSTR, SUBM, ORIGM (see Table 5).
Asexemplified by the second rule of Fig.
2, the se-mantic network specified in the conclusion of arule often consists of more than one network edge;on average, an interpretation has 1.69 edges.4.3 Annotated PP CorpusA third source of preposition information is an an-notated PP corpus and statistics derived from it.The occurrences of six frequent prepositions in840 PPs have been manually annotated with thecorrect PP attachment and most likely PP interpre-?prahlen.1.1?
[ % ?boast?verbsyn v-control subjeqsemsel [v-nonment-actionselect ?
[ agt-selectsel semsel sem entity human +][ mcont-selectoblig ?sel syn (mit-dat-pp-syn damit-dass-syndamit-zu-inf-syn)] ?compat-r {dur fin strt}example ?
?
(Der Mann) (prahlt) (mit seinenErfolgen).?
?
]]% ?The man boasts his successes.??Gegenstu?ck.1.1?
[ % ?counterpart?n-neutsemsel [count-nsem [ entity prot-theor-conceptnet /(attch x1 c) (equ c x0)/]select ?
[ nselectsel syn zu-dat-pp-syn] ?example ?
?DieMutter ist das Gegenstu?ck zurSchraube.?
?
]]% ?The nut is the counterpart to the screw.??unabha?ngig.1.1?
[ % ?independent?a-nqsemsel [sem net /(sspe n1 x1) (scar n1 x0) (chps c n1)/select ?
[ aselectsel syn (von-dat-pp-syn davon-dass-syndavon-wh-syn)] ?example ?
?Die Manager sind nicht unab-ha?ngig von den Arbeitern.?
?
]]% ?The managers are not independent from% the workers.
?Figure 1: Simplified lexicon entries for the verbprahlen, the noun Gegenstu?ck, and the adjectiveunabha?ngig.32aus.origm examples: eine Platte aus Kupfer (?a plate out of copper?
), .
.
.sort(c1)= co ?
sort(c2)= s ?
(origm c1 c2)auf.attr language examples: ein Artikel auf Englisch (?an article in English?
), .
.
.
((sort(c1)= o ?
info(c1)=+) ?
sort(c1)= ad) ?
(sub c2 ?sprache.1.1?)?
(attr c1 c3) ?
(val c3 c2) ?
(sub c3 ?sprache.1.1?
)Figure 2: Examples of PP interpretation rules; c1 refers to the PP?s mother constituent, c2 to the prepo-sition?s complement; features are explained in Sect.
3.c2io??
?FACT realQUANT oneCARD 1ETYPE 0???SUBcsc3at??
?FACT realQUANT oneCARD 1ETYPE 0??
?SUBc s//VAL csoosprache.1.1io[GENER geETYPE 0]englisch.2.1io[GENER geETYPE 0]c1d?io?????
?FACT realGENER spQUANT oneREFER indetCARD 1ETYPE 0?????
?ATTRcc OOSUBc s//artikel.1.1d?io[GENER geETYPE 0]Figure 3: Semantic network for the noun phrase ein Artikel auf Englisch (?an article in English?
); therelations in bold face and c3 stem from the conclusion of the PP rule auf.attr language shown in Fig.
2.tation.7 This knowledge acts as the training set fora machine learning component that disambiguatesattachment and interpretation of PPs (see Sect.
5).5 Preposition Interpretation withinSemantic ParsingAll the knowledge resources described in Sect.
4are used by the parser to determine the correct in-terpretation of prepositions.
Furthermore, PP at-tachment ambiguities are resolved on the basis ofpossible interpretations.
The complement infor-mation (valency frames) in the lexicon licensespossible complement interpretations, the PP inter-pretation rules (combined with the adjunct infor-mation in the lexicon) license possible adjunct in-terpretations.
In case of alternatives, they are dis-ambiguated using statistics derived from the anno-tated PP corpus and a whole range of preferencescores.8The statistical data is represented in the form ofa multidimensional back-off model.
Each alterna-tive is described by the rule name, the semantics of7In case of so-called systematic ambiguities, both attach-ments have been classified as valid.
Moreover, two readingswere considered as equally likely in some cases.8Classical rule-based approaches often apply some sortof decision algorithm to disambiguate such cases; see e.g.
(Hirst, 1987).the preposition?s complement, and the semanticsof the possible syntactic head.
If no exact matchis found in the disambiguation statistics the num-ber of considered alternatives and the granularityof the description of an alternative are reduced bybacking off in these two orthogonal dimensions;see (Hartrumpf, 2003; Hartrumpf, 1999) for de-tails.6 Evaluation6.1 Intrinsic EvaluationExperiments showed that 24.2% of verb comple-ment interpretations are equally well produced byadjunct rules (see column 5 in Table 3).
Never-theless the PP interpretation disambiguation taskprofits from complement information because inmany of these overlap cases more than one PP in-terpretation was possible.
Also the PP attachmentdisambiguation task can benefit from the comple-ment vs. adjunct distinction because complement-hood is a strong indicator of the correct attachmentplace.
A third argument for having such comple-ment information is that it is important to modelall roles belonging to a concept on the cognitivelevel; this can be easily realized by a one-to-onecorrespondence between cognitive roles and com-plements in the lexicon.
Table 3 shows the number33Table 3: PP complements in the lexicon.
Mixed PP complement means that the role can be syntacticallyrealized as a PP or an NP.
Reg.
compl.
means that the complement semantics specified in the lexicon isequally well produced by some PP interpretation rule and therefore viewed as being regular.cat.
lexemes PP compl.
lexemes with PPcompl.reg.
compl.
mixed PP compl.
lexemes withmixed PP compl.v 7006 1690 1616 24.2% 105 100n 13111 720 684 5.6% 3750 2393of lexemes of a given category with some PP com-plements and the total number of PP complementsfor verbs and nouns in our lexicon.
The percentageof regular complements (24.2%) is significantlyhigher than the corresponding token value in theQA@CLEF corpus (17.5%, see Table 2).
Thisindicates that regular complements often have amore optional character than irregular comple-ments.
Also in this respect, regular complementsresemble adjuncts.The preposition interpretation method achievesbetween 84% and 89% correctness for the sixprepositions supported by the hand-tagged PP cor-pus; for prepositions without annotated corpusdata, the performance seems to drop by around 10to 20 percent points.6.2 Extrinsic EvaluationOne important application using the parser and thepreposition interpretation described above is In-Sicht, a QA system for German text collections(Hartrumpf, 2005).
To measure the impact ofa deep preposition interpretation, the QA systemwas run twice: with and without the PP interpre-tation presented above.
For the latter, each inter-pretation of a PP with preposition p, an NP c2,and syntactic head c1 was replaced by an edgewith the unique artificial relation PP.p, e.g.
theaus-PP rule in Fig.
2 would contain the conclu-sion (PP.AUS c1 c2).
The QA system was eval-uated on the German questions from the ques-tion answering track at CLEF (QA@CLEF) of theyears 2004 and 2005.
Surprisingly, the PP in-terpretation with unique artificial relations causedno significant performance drop.
A closer lookat all questions from QA@CLEF 2004 involvingPPs revealed that the documents with answers al-most always contained the same prepositions asthe corresponding questions.
Therefore we triedmore difficult (and often more realistic) questionswith different prepositions (and verbs or nouns).Only natural and (nearly) equivalent paraphraseswere allowed.
For the PP questions where theQA system delivered correct answers, 14 para-phrases were written to test the positive impact oftransforming surface prepositions to their correctmeaning.The evaluation of PP semantics was then per-formed using the paraphrases instead of the origi-nal questions.
For 86% of all paraphrases, the cor-rect answer was still found when the more distantparaphrase was used as the question for the QAsystem; with the artificial relations for PPs, only14% of the paraphrases were answered correctly.This indicates clearly that NLP applications likesemantic QA systems benefit from a good prepo-sition interpretation.
The paraphrases that couldnot be answered by the QA system with PP in-terpretation would need more advanced reasoningtechniques to work correctly.Some paraphrases involved PP adjuncts.
For ex-ample, the QA@CLEF question qa04 055 is givenas example (5):(5) InInwelchemwhichJahryearwurdewasNelsonNelsonMandelaMandelageboren?born?
?In which year was NelsonMandela born?
?As the documents contain the correct answer inthe form of a PP with the same preposition as inthe question (in), shallow approaches (and also ourQA system with the artificial relations) can answerthis question correctly.
But the paraphrase (6) re-quires that question and documents, which differon the surface (in-PP vs. interrogative Wann), aretransformed to the same representation (express-ing a temporal relation).
(6) WannWhenwurdewasNelsonNelsonMandelaMandelageboren?born?
?When was Nelson Mandela born?
?There were also some cases illustrating the im-34portance of a homogenous transition between thesemantics of PP adjuncts and the semantics of PPcomplements.
Example (7) (qa04 027) containsan interrogative involving fu?r, which is specifiedas a complement of the verb anklagen (?accuse?
)in the current version of HaGenLex.
(7) Wofu?rWhat-forwurdewasAldrichAldrichH.H.AmesAmesangeklagt?accused?
?For what was Aldrich H. Ames accused?
?But in paraphrases like (8), the same entity appearsas an adjunct of the verb.
(8) WeswegenWhat-GEN-because-ofwurdewasAldrichAldrichH.H.AmesAmesangeklagt?accused?
?Because of what was Aldrich H. Ames ac-cused?
?The correct answer is still found for the paraphrasebecause both questions and the relevant documentsentences contain the same semantic representa-tion (here, a single relation of justification).All these paraphrases are examples of increasedrecall.
But also the precision of the QA systemis improved because preposition sense mismatchesbetween question and documents can be detected.7 Conclusion and Future WorkWe have presented a unified approach to the prob-lem of automatic preposition interpretation.
Theextrinsic evaluation result in the context of a QAsystem encourages us to continue work in the fol-lowing directions.
The PP interpretation rules areto be transferred to other languages.
We have al-ready started for English.
The transfer on the levelof preposition readings (or PP rules) is much eas-ier than translating prepositions.
Moreover, thecoverage and quality of all three knowledge re-sources should be further extended.
For example,we want to analyze why certain PP interpretationrules have rarely succeeded during corpus parsing.Extrinsic evaluations on larger and more difficultquestion sets for QA systems and evaluations inother NLP applications might help to focus furtherresearch.ReferencesTimothy Baldwin.
2005.
Looking for preposi-tional verbs in corpus data.
In Proc.
of the 2ndACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, Colch-ester, UK.Sven Hartrumpf, Hermann Helbig, and Rainer Oss-wald.
2003.
The semantically based computer lex-icon HaGenLex ?
Structure and technological en-vironment.
Traitement automatique des langues,44(2):81?105.Sven Hartrumpf.
1999.
Hybrid disambiguation ofprepositional phrase attachment and interpretation.In Proc.
of EMNLP/VLC-99, pages 111?120, Col-lege Park, Maryland.Sven Hartrumpf.
2003.
Hybrid Disambiguation inNatural Language Analysis.
Der Andere Verlag, Os-nabru?ck, Germany.Sven Hartrumpf.
2005.
University of Hagen atQA@CLEF 2005: Extending knowledge and deep-ening linguistic processing for question answering.In Carol Peters, editor, Results of CLEF 2005.
Cen-tromedia, Wien.Hermann Helbig.
2006.
Knowledge Representationand the Semantics of Natural Language.
Springer.Graeme Hirst.
1987.
Semantic Interpretation andthe Resolution of Ambiguity.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Todd A. Letsche and Michael W. Berry.
1997.
Large-scale information retrieval with latent semantic in-dexing.
Information Sciences, 100(1-4):105?137.Johannes Leveling and Sven Hartrumpf.
2005.
Uni-versity of Hagen at CLEF 2004: Indexing and trans-lating concepts for the GIRT task.
In C. Peters et al,editors, Multilingual Information Access for Text,Speech and Images, LNCS 3491, pages 271?282.Springer.Johannes Leveling and Hermann Helbig.
2002.
A ro-bust natural language interface for access to biblio-graphic databases.
In Nagib Callaos et al, editors,Proc.
of SCI 2002, volume XI, pages 133?138, Or-lando, Florida.Johannes Leveling.
2005.
University of Hagen atCLEF 2005: Towards a better baseline for NLPmethods in domain-specific information retrieval.
InCarol Peters, editor, Results of CLEF 2005.
Centro-media, Wien.Kenneth C. Litkowski and Orin Hargraves.
2005.The preposition project.
In Proc.
of the 2nd ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, Colchester,UK.Kenneth C. Litkowski.
2002.
Digraph analysis of dic-tionary preposition definitions.
In Proc.
of the ACLWorkshop on Word Sense Disambiguation, pages 9?16, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.35Tom O?Hara and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Preposition se-mantic classification via Penn Treebank and Fram-Net.
In Proc.
of CoNLL-2003.
Edmonton, Canada.Rainer Osswald, Hermann Helbig, and SvenHartrumpf.
2006.
The representation of Ger-man prepositional verbs in a semantically basedcomputer lexicon.
In Proc.
of LREC 2006, Genoa,Italy.
To appear.Gisa Rauh.
1993.
On the grammar of lexical andnon-lexical prepositions in English.
In CorneliaZelinski-Wibbelt, editor, The Semantics of Preposi-tions, pages 99?150.
Mouton de Gruyter.Patrick Saint-Dizier.
2005.
PrepNet: A frameworkfor describing prepositions: Preliminary investiga-tion results.
In Proc.
of IWCS 6, Tilburg.Cornelia Zelinski-Wibbelt, editor.
1993.
The Seman-tics of Prepositions.
Mouton de Gruyter.Appendix: Elements of the MultiNetFormalismTable 4: Part of the hierarchy of ontological sortsentity [ent]object [o]concrete object [co]discrete object [d] house, apple, tigersubstance [s] milk, honey, ironabstract object [ab]attribute [at] height, weightrelationship [re] causalityideal object [io] religion, justicemodality [mo] necessity, intentionsituational object [abs] race, robbery.
.
.situation [si]dynamic situation [dy]action [da] write, sing, sellhappening [dn] rain, decaystatic situation [st] stand, be illsituational descriptor [sd]time [t] yesterday, Mondaylocation [l] here, there.
.
.quality [ql]property [p]total quality [tq] dead, empty, greengradable quality [gq] friendly, expensive.
.
.relational quality [rq] inverse, equivalent,similarfunctional quality [ f q]operational quality [oq] fourth, last, nextassociative quality [aq] chemicalquantity [qn]quantificator [q f ] one, many, severalmeasurement [m] two litresgraduator [gr] very, quite.
.
.Table 5: Strongly abbreviated description of rela-tions used in this paper.Rel.
Signature Short CharacteristicsAGT [abs?
si]?o C-Role ?
AgentATTCH [o\at]?
[o\at]Attachments of objectsATTR [l?o?
t]?at Specification of an at-tributeAVRT [ad?dy]?o C-Role ?
Averting/Turn-ing away from an objectCAUS [abs??
si?]?[abs??
si?
]Relation between causeand effect (causality)CHPS [p?
rq]?
[as?
st] Change of sorts: Property?
StateDIRCL [o?
si]?
l Relation specifying a di-rectionDUR [o?
si]?[abs?
si?
t ?
ta]Relation specifying atemporal extensionELMT ent?
ent Element relationEQU ent?
ent Equality/Equivalence re-lationFIN [o?
si?
t]?[abs?
si?
t ?
ta]Relation specifying thetemporal endINSTR [abs?
si]?
co C-Role ?
InstrumentLOC [o?
si]?
l Relation specifying thelocationMCONT [o?
si]?
[o?
si] C-Role ?
Relation be-tween a mental processand its contentOBJ [abs?
si]?[o?
si]C-Role ?
Neutral objectof a situationORIGM co?
co Relation specifying thematerial originORNT [abs?
si]?o C-Role ?
Orientation ofa situation toward some-thingPARS [co?
io?
l?ta]?[co?
io?
l?
ta]Part-whole relationshipPROP o?
p Relation between objectand propertySCAR [as?
st]?o C-Role ?
Carrier of astateSSPE [as?
st]?[m?o?
si]C-Role ?
Entity specify-ing a stateSTRT [o?
si?
t]?[abs?
si?
t ?
ta]Relation specifying thetemporal beginSUB o?o Relation of concep-tual subordination (forobjects)SUBM ent?
ent Relation of set subsump-tionSUBS [abs?
si]?[abs?
si]Relation of conceptualsubordination (for situa-tions)TEMP [o?
si?
t]?[abs?
si?
t ?
ta]Relation specifying thetemporal embedding of asituationVAL at?[o?
p?qn?
t]Relation between an at-tribute and its value36
