Proceedings of the Workshop on Multilingual Language Resources and Interoperability, pages 17?24,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Agent-based Cross-lingual Interoperability of DistributedLexical ResourcesClaudia Soria* Maurizio Tesconi?
Andrea Marchetti?Francesca Bertagna* Monica Monachini*Chu-Ren Huang?
Nicoletta Calzolari**CNR-ILC and ?CNR-IITVia Moruzzi 1, 56024 PisaItaly{firstname.lastname@ilc.cnr.it}{firstname.lastname@iit.cnr.it}?Academia SinicaNankang, TaipeiTaiwanchuren@gate.sinica.edu.twAbstractIn this paper we present an applicationfostering the integration and interopera-bility of computational lexicons, focusingon the particular case of mutual linkingand cross-lingual enrichment of two wor-dnets, the ItalWordNet and Sinica BOWlexicons.
This is intended as a case-studyinvestigating the needs and requirementsof semi-automatic integration and inter-operability of lexical resources.1 IntroductionIn this paper we present an application fosteringthe integration and interoperability of computa-tional lexicons, focusing on the particular case ofmutual linking and cross-lingual enrichment oftwo wordnets.
The development of this applica-tion is intended as a case-study and a test-bed fortrying out needs and requirements posed by thechallenge of semi-automatic integration and en-richment of practical, large-scale multilinguallexicons for use in computer applications.
Whilea number of lexicons already exist, few of themare practically useful, either since they are notsufficiently broad or because they don?t coverthe necessary level of detailed information.Moreover, multilingual language resources arenot as widely available and are very costly toconstruct: the work process for manual develop-ment of new lexical resources or for tailoringexisting ones is too expensive in terms of effortand time to be practically attractive.The need of ever growing lexical resources foreffective multilingual content processing hasurged the language resource community to callfor a radical change in the perspective of lan-guage resource creation and maintenance and thedesign of a ?new generation?
of LRs: from static,closed and locally developed resources to sharedand distributed language services, based on opencontent interoperability standards.
This has oftenbeen called a ?change in paradigm?
(in the senseof Kuhn, see Calzolari and Soria, 2005; Calzolari2006).
Leaving aside the tantalizing task ofbuilding on-site resources, the new paradigmdepicts a scenario where lexical resources arecooperatively built as the result of controlled co-operation of different agents, adopting the para-digm of accumulation of knowledge so success-ful in more mature disciplines, such as biologyand physics (Calzolari, 2006).According to this view (or, better, this vision),different lexical resources reside over distributedplaces and can not only be accessed but choreo-graphed by agents presiding the actions that canbe executed over them.
This implies the ability tobuild on each other achievements, to merge re-sults, and to have them accessible to various sys-tems and applications.At the same time, there is another argument infavor of distributed lexical resources: languageresources, lexicons included, are inherently dis-tributed because of the diversity of languagesdistributed over the world.
It is not only naturalthat language resources to be developed andmaintained in their native environment.
Sincelanguage evolves and changes over time, it is notpossible to describe the current state of the lan-17guage away from where the language is spoken.Lastly, the vast range of diversity of languagesalso makes it impossible to have one single uni-versal centralized resource, or even a centralizedrepository of resources.Although the paradigm of distributed and in-teroperable lexical resources has largely beendiscussed and invoked, very little has been madein comparison for the development of new meth-ods and techniques for its practical realization.Some initial steps are made to design frame-works enabling inter-lexica access, search, inte-gration and operability.
An example is the Lexustool (Kemps-Snijders et al, 2006), based on theLexical Markup Framework (Romary et al,2006), that goes in the direction of managing theexchange of data among large-scale lexical re-sources.
A similar tool, but more tailored to thecollaborative creation of lexicons for endangeredlanguage, is SHAWEL (Gulrajani and Harrison,2002).
However, the general impression is thatlittle has been made towards the development ofnew methods and techniques for attaining a con-crete interoperability among lexical resources.Admittedly, this is a long-term scenario requiringthe contribution of many different actors and ini-tiatives (among which we only mention stan-dardisation, distribution and international coop-eration).Nevertheless, the intent of our project is tocontribute to fill in this gap, by exploring in acontrolled way the requirement and implicationsposed by new generation multilingual lexicalresources.
The paper is organized as follows:section 2 describes the general architectural de-sign of our project; section 3 describes the mod-ule taking care of cross-lingual integration oflexical resources, by also presenting a case-studyinvolving an Italian and Chinese lexicons.
Fi-nally, section 4 presents our considerations andlessons learned on the basis of this exploratorytesting.2 An Architecture for Integrating Lexi-cal ResourcesLeXFlow (Soria et al, 2006) was developedhaving in mind the long-term goal of lexical re-source interoperability.
In a sense, LeXFlow isintended as a proof of concept attempting tomake the vision of an infrastructure for accessand sharing of linguistic resources more tangible.LeXFlow is an adaptation to computationallexicons of XFlow, a cooperative web applica-tion for the management of document workflows(DW, Marchetti et al, 2005).
A DW can be seenas a process of cooperative authoring where adocument can be the goal of the process or just aside effect of the cooperation.
Through a DW, adocument life-cycle is tracked and supervised,continually providing control over the actionsleading to document compilation.
In this envi-ronment a document travels among agents whoessentially carry out the pipeline receive-process-send activity.There are two types of agents: external agentsare human or software actors performing activi-ties dependent from the particular DocumentWorkflow Type; internal agents are softwareactors providing general-purpose activities usefulfor many DWTs and, for this reason, imple-mented directly into the system.
Internal agentsperform general functionalities such as creat-ing/converting a document belonging to a par-ticular DW, populating it with some initial data,duplicating a document to be sent to multipleagents, splitting a document and sending portionsof information to different agents, merging du-plicated documents coming from multiple agents,aggregating fragments, and finally terminatingoperations over the document.
External agentsbasically execute some processing using thedocument content and possibly other data; forinstance, accessing an external database orlaunching an application.LeXFlow was born by tailoring XFlow tomanagement of lexical entries; in doing so, wehave assumed that each lexical entry can bemodelled as a document instance, whose behav-iour can be formally specified by means of alexical workflow type (LWT).
A LWT describesthe life-cycle of a lexical entry, the agents al-lowed to act over it, the actions to be performedby the agents, and the order in which the actionsare to be executed.
Embracing the view of coop-erative workflows, agents can have differentrights or views over the same entry: this nicelysuits the needs of lexicographic work, where wecan define different roles (such as encoder, anno-tator, validator) that can be played by either hu-man or software agents.
Other software modulescan be inserted in the flow, such as an automaticacquirer of information from corpora or from theweb.
Moreover, deriving from a tool designedfor the cooperation of agents, LeXFlow allows tomanage workflows where the different agentscan reside over distributed places.LeXFlow thus inherits from XFlow the gen-eral design and architecture, and can be consid-ered as a specialized version of it through design18of specific Lexical Workflow Types and plug-inof dedicated external software agents.
In the nextsection we briefly illustrate a particular LexicalWorkflow Type and the external software agentsdeveloped for the purpose of integrating differentlexicons belonging to the same language.
Since itallows the independent and coordinated sharingof actions over portions of lexicons, LeXFlownaturally lends itself as a tool for the manage-ment of distributed lexical resources.Due to its versatility, LeXFlow is both a gen-eral framework where ideas on automatic lexicalresource integration can be tested and an infra-structure for proving new methods for coopera-tion among lexicon experts.2.1 Using LeXFlow for Lexicon EnrichmentIn previous work (Soria et al, 2006),  the LeX-Flow framework has been tested for integrationof lexicons with differently conceived lexicalarchitectures and diverging formats.
It wasshown how interoperability is possible betweentwo Italian lexicons from the SIMPLE andWordNet families, respectively, namely theSIMPLE/CLIPS (Ruimy et al, 2003) and Ital-WordNet (Roventini et al, 2003) lexicons.In particular, a Lexical Workflow Type wasdesigned where the two different monolingualsemantic lexicons interact by reciprocally enrich-ing themselves and moreover integrate informa-tion coming from corpora.
This LWT, called?lexicon augmentation?, explicitly addresses dy-namic augmentation of semantic lexicons.
In thisscenario, an entry of a lexicon A becomes en-riched via basically two steps.
First, by virtue ofbeing mapped onto a corresponding entry be-longing to a lexicon B, the entryA inherits thesemantic relations available in the mapped en-tryB.
Second, by resorting to an automatic appli-cation that acquires information about semanticrelations from corpora, the acquired relations areintegrated into the entry and proposed to the hu-man encoder.BAn overall picture of the flow is shown inFigure 1, illustrating the different agents partici-pating in the flow.
Rectangles represent humanactors over the entries, while the other figuressymbolize software agents: ovals are internalagents and octagons external ones.
The two ex-ternal agents involved in this flow are the ?rela-tion calculator?
and the ?corpora extractor?.
Thefirst is responsible for the mapping between thesets of semantic relations used by the differentlexicons.
The ?corpora extractor?
module in-vokes an application that acquires informationabout part-of relations by identifying syntacticconstructions in a vast Italian corpus.
It thentakes care of creating the appropriate candidatesemantic relations for each lemma that is pro-posed by the application.Figure 1.
Lexicons Augmentation WorkflowType.A prototype of LeXFlow has been imple-mented with an extensive use of XML technolo-gies (XML Schema, XSLT, XPath, XForms,SVG) and open-source tools (Cocoon, Tomcat,mySQL).
It is a web-based application wherehuman agents interact with the system throughan XForms browser that displays the documentto process as a web form whereas softwareagents interact with the system via web services.3 Multilingual WN ServiceIn the Section above we have illustrated the gen-eral architecture of LeXFlow and showed how aLexical Workflow Type can be implemented inorder to enrich already existing lexicons belong-ing to the same language but realizing differentmodels of lexicon encoding.
In this section wemove to a cross-lingual perspective of lexiconintegration.
We present a module that similarlyaddresses the issue of lexicon augmentation orenrichment focusing on mutual enrichment oftwo wordnets in different languages and residingat different sites.This module, named ?multilingual WN Ser-vice?
is responsible for the automatic cross-lingual fertilization of lexicons having a Word-19Net-like structure.
Put it very simply, the ideabehind this module is that a monolingual word-net can be enriched by accessing the semanticinformation encoded in corresponding entries ofother monolingual wordnets.Since each entry in the monolingual lexiconsis linked to the Interlingual Index (ILI, cf.
Sec-tion 3.1), a synset of a WN(A) is indirectlylinked to another synset in another WN(B).
Onthe basis of this correspondence, a synset(A) canbe enriched by importing the relations that thecorresponding synset(B) holds with other syn-sets(B), and vice-versa.
Moreover, the enrich-ment of WN(A) will not only import the relationsfound in WN(B), but it will also propose targetsynsets in the language(A) on the basis of thosefound in language(B).The various WN lexicons reside over distrib-uted servers and can be queried through web ser-vice interfaces.
The overall architecture for mul-tilingual wordnet service is depicted in Figure 2.Figure 2.
Multilingual Wordnet Service Archi-tecture.Put in the framework of the general LeXFlowarchitecture, the Multilingual wordnet Servicecan be seen as an additional external softwareagent that can be added to the augmentationworkflow or included in other types of lexicalflows.
For instance, it can be used not only toenrich a monolingual lexicon but to bootstrap abilingual lexicon.3.1 Linking Lexicons through the ILIThe entire mechanism of the Multilingual WNService is based on the exploitation of Interlin-gual Index (Peters et al, 1998), an unstructuredversion of WordNet used in EuroWordNet(Vossen et al, 1998) to link wordnets of differentlanguages; each synset in the language-specificwordnet is linked to at least one record of the ILIby means of a set of equivalence relations(among which the most important is theEQ_SYNONYM, that expresses a total, perfectequivalence between two synsets).Figure 6 describes the schema of a WN lexicalentry.
Under the root ?synset?
we find both in-ternal relations (?synset relations?)
and ILI Rela-tions, which link to ILI synsets.Figure 3 shows the role played by the ILI asset of pivot nodes allowing the linkage betweenconcepts belonging to different wordnets.Figure 3.
Interlingual Linking of Language-specific Synsets.In the Multilingual WN Service, only equiva-lence relations of type EQ_SYNONYM andEQ_NEAR_SYNONYM have been taken into ac-count, being them the ones used to represent atranslation of concepts and also because they arethe most exploited (for example, in IWN, theycover about the 60% of the encoded equivalencerelations).
The EQ_SYNONYM relation is used torealize the one-to-one mapping between the lan-guage-specific synset and the ILI, while multipleEQ_NEAR_SYNONYM relations (because of theirnature) might be encoded to link a single lan-guage-specific synset to more than one ILI re-cord.
In Figure 4 we represented the possiblerelevant combinations of equivalence relationsthat can realize the mapping between synsetsbelonging to two languages.
In all the four cases,a synset ?a?
is linked via the ILI record to a syn-set ?b?
but a specific procedure has been fore-seen in order to calculate different ?plausibilityscores?
to each situation.
The procedure relies ondifferent rates assigned to the two equivalencerelations (rate ?1?
to EQ_NEAR_SYNONYM rela-tion and rate ?0?
to the EQ_SYNONYM).
In thisway we can distinguish the four cases by assign-ing respectively a weight of ?0?, ?1?, ?1?
and?2?.20Figure 4.
Possible Combinations of Relationsbetween two Lexicons A and B and the ILI.The ILI is a quite powerful yet simple methodto link concepts across the many lexicons be-longing to the WordNet-family.
Unfortunately,no version of the ILI can be considered a stan-dard and often the various lexicons exploit dif-ferent version of WordNet as ILI 1 .
This is aproblem that is handled at web-service level, byincorporating the conversion tables provided by(Daud?
et al, 2001).
In this way, the use of dif-ferent versions of WN does not have to be takeninto consideration by the user who accesses thesystem but it is something that is resolved by thesystem itself2.
This is why the version of the ILIis a parameter of the query to web service (seeSection below).3.2 Description of the ProcedureOn the basis of ILI linking, a synset can be en-riched by importing the relations contained in thecorresponding synsets belonging to anotherwordnet.In the procedure adopted, the enrichment isperformed on a synset-by-synset basis.
In otherwords, a certain synset is selected from a word-net resource, say WN(A).
The cross-lingual mod-ule identifies the corresponding ILI synset, onthe basis of the information encoded in the syn-set.
It then sends a query to the WN(B) web ser-vice providing the ID of ILI synset together withthe ILI version of the starting WN.
The WN(B)web service returns the synset(s) correspondingto the WN(A) synset, together with reliabilityscores.
If WN(B) is based on a different ILI ver-sion, it can carry out the mapping between ILIversions (for instance by querying the ILI map-ping web service).
The cross-lingual module thenanalyzes the synset relations encoded in the1 For example, the Chinese and the Italian wordnets consid-ered as our case-study use respectively versions 1.6 and 1.5.2 It should be noted, however, that the conversion betweendifferent WN versions could not be accurate so the mappingis always proposed with a probability score.WN(B) synset and for each of them creates anew synset relation for the WN(A) synset.If the queried wordnets do not use the same setof synset relations, the module must take care ofthe mapping between different relation sets.
Inour case-study no mapping was needed, since thetwo sets were completely equivalent.Each new relation is obtained by substitutingthe target WN(B)  synset  with the correspondingsynset WN(A), which again is found by queryingback the WN(A) web service (all these stepsthrough the ILI).
The procedure is formally de-fined by the following formula:Figure 5.
Finding New Relations.Every local wordnet has to provide a web ser-vice API  with the following methods:1.
GetWeightedSynsetsByIli(ILIid, ILIversion)2.
GetSynsetById(sysnsetID)3.
GetSynsetsByLemma(lemma)21The returned synsets of each method must beformatted in XML following the schema de-picted in Figure 6:Figure 6.
Schema of Wordnet Synsets Returnedby WN Web Services.The scores returned by the method ?Get-WeightedSynsetsByIli?
are used by our moduleto calculate the reliability rating for each newproposed relation.3.3 A Case Study: Cross-fertilization be-tween Italian and Chinese Wordnets.We explore this idea with a case-study involvingthe ItalianWordNet (Roventini et al, 2003) andthe Academia Sinica Bilingual OntologicalWordnet (Sinica BOW, Huang et al, 2004).The BOW integrates three resources: Word-Net, English-Chinese Translation EquivalentsDatabase (ECTED), and SUMO (Suggested Up-per Merged Ontology).
With the integration ofthese three key resources, Sinica BOW functionsboth as an English-Chinese bilingual wordnetand a bilingual lexical access to SUMO.
SinicaBow currently has two bilingual versions, corre-sponding to WordNet 1.6. and 1.7.
Based onthese bootstrapped versions, a Chinese Wordnet(CWN, Huang et al 2005) is under constructionwith handcrafted senses and lexical semantic re-lations.
For the current experiment, we have usedthe version linking to WordNet 1.6.ItalWordNet was realized as an extension ofthe Italian component of EuroWordNet.
It com-prises a general component consisting of about50,000 synsets and terminological wordnetslinked to the generic wordnet by means of a spe-cific set of relations.
Each synset of ItalWordNetis linked to the Interlingual-Index (ILI).The two lexicons refer to different versions ofthe ILI (1.5 for IWN and 1.6 for BOW), thusmaking it necessary to provide a mapping be-tween the two versions.
On the other hand, nomapping is necessary for the set of synset rela-tions used, since both of them adopt the same set.For the purposes of evaluating the cross-lingual module, we have developed two web-services for managing a subset of the two re-sources.The following Figure shows a very simple ex-ample where our procedure discovers and pro-poses a new meronymy relation for the Italiansynset {passaggio,strada,via}.
This synset isequivalent to the ILI ?road,route?
that is ILI-connected with BOW synset ???,?
,??
(da-o_lu, dao, lu) (Figure 7, A) .
The Chinese synsethas a meronymy relation with the synset ??????
(wan) (B).
This last  synset is equivalentto the ILI ?bend, crook, turn?
that is ILI-connected with Italian WordNet synset ?curva-tura, svolta, curva?
(C).
Therefore the procedurewill propose a new candidate meronymy relationbetween the two Italian WordNet synsets (D).Figure 7.
Example of a New Proposed Mero-nymy Relation for Italian.3.4 Considerations and Lessons LearnedGiven the diversity of the languages for whichwordnets exist, we note that it is difficult to im-plement an operational standard across all typo-logically different languages.
Work on enrichingand merging multilingual resources presupposesthat the resources involved are all encoded withthe same standard.
However, even with the bestefforts of the NLP community, there are only asmall number of language resources encoded inany given standard.
In the current work, we pre-suppose a de-facto standard, i.e.
a shared andconventionalized architecture, the WordNet one.Since the WordNet framework is both conven-tionalized and widely followed, our system is22able to rely on it without resorting to a more sub-stantial and comprehensive standard.
In the case,for instance, of integration of lexicons with dif-ferent underlying linguistic models, the availabil-ity of the MILE (Calzolari et al, 2003) was anessential prerequisite of our work.
Nevertheless,even from the perspective of the same model, acertain degree of standardization is required, atleast at the format level.From a more general point of view, and evenfrom the perspective of a limited experimentsuch as the one described in this paper, we mustnote that the realization of the new vision of dis-tributed and interoperable language resources isstrictly intertwined with at least two prerequi-sites.
On the one side, the language resourcesneed to be available over the web; on the other,the language resource community will have toreconsider current distribution policies, and toinvestigate the possibility of developing an?Open Source?
concept for LRs.4 ConclusionOur proposal to make distributed wordnets inter-operable has the following applications in proc-essing of lexical resources:?
Enriching existing resources: informa-tion is often not complete in any givenwordnet: by making two wordnets inter-operable, we can bootstrap semantic rela-tions and other information from otherwordnets.?
Creation of new resources: multilinguallexicons can be bootstrapped by linkingdifferent language wordnets through ILI.?
Validation of existing resources: seman-tic relation information and other synsetassignments can be validated when it is re-inforced by data from a different wordnet.In particular, our work can be proposed as aprototype of a web application that would sup-port the Global WordNet Grid initiative(www.globalwordnet.org/gwa/gwa_grid.htm).Any multilingual process, such as cross-lingual information retrieval, must involve bothresources and tools in a specific language andlanguage pairs.
For instance, a multilingual querygiven in Italian but intended for querying Eng-lish, Chinese, French, German, and Russiantexts, can be send to five different nodes on theGrid for query expansion, as well as performingthe query itself.
In this way, language specificquery techniques can be applied in parallel toachieve best results that can be integrated in thefuture.
As multilingualism clearly becomes oneof the major challenges of the future of web-based knowledge engineering, WordNet emergesas one leading candidate for a shared platformfor representing a lexical knowledge model fordifferent languages of the world.
This is trueeven if it has to be recognized that the wordnetmodel is lacking in some important semantic in-formation (like, for instance, a way to representthe semantic predicate).
However, such knowl-edge and resources are distributed.
In order tocreate a shared multi-lingual knowledge base forcross-lingual processing based on these distrib-uted resources, an initiative to create a grid-likestructure has been recently proposed and pro-moted by the Global WordNet Association, butuntil now has remained a wishful thinking.
Thesuccess of this initiative will depend on whetherthere will be tools to access and manipulate therich internal semantic structure of distributedmulti-lingual WordNets.
We believe that ourwork on LeXFlow offers such a tool to provideinter-operable web-services to access distributedmultilingual WordNets on the grid.This allows us to exploit in a cross-lingualframework the wealth of monolingual lexicalinformation built in the last decade.5 ReferencesNicoletta Calzolari, Francesca Bertagna, AlessandroLenci and Monica Monachini, editors.
2003.
Stan-dards and Best Practice for Multilingual Computa-tional Lexicons.
MILE (the Multilingual ISLELexical Entry).
ISLE CLWG Deliverable D2.2 &3.2.
Pisa.Nicoletta Calzolari and Claudia Soria.
2005.
A NewParadigm for an Open Distributed Language Re-source Infrastructure: the Case of ComputationalLexicons.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Sym-posium ?Knowledge Collection from VolunteerContributors (KCVC05)?, pages 110-114, Stan-ford, CA.Nicoletta Calzolari.
2006.
Technical and Strategicissues on Language Resources for a Research In-frastructure In Proceedings of the InternationalSymposium on Large-scale Knowledge Resources(LKR2006), pages 53-58, Tokyo, Tokyo Instituteof Technology.Jordi Daud?, Lluis Padr?
and German Rigau.
2001.
AComplete WN1.5 to WN1.6 Mapping.
In Proceed-ings of NAACL Workshop "WordNet and OtherLexical Resources: Applications, Extensions and23Customizations", pages 83-88, Pittsburg, PA, USA,Association for Computational Linguistics.Greg Gulrajani and David Harrison.
2002.
SHAWEL:Sharable and Interactive Web-Lexicons.
In Pro-ceedings of the LREC2002 Workshop on Tools andResources in Field Linguistics, pages 1-4, LasPalmas, Canary Islands, Spain.Chu-Ren Huang, Ru-Yng Chang,  and Shiang-BinLee.
2004.
Sinica BOW (Bilingual OntologicalWordnet): Integration of Bilingual WordNet andSUMO.
In Proceedings of LREC2004, pages 1553-1556, Lisbon, Portugal.Chu-Ren Huang, Chun-Ling Chen, Cui-Xia Weng,Hsiang-Ping Lee, Yong-Xiang Chen and Keh-jiannChen.
2005.
The Sinica Sense Management Sys-tem: Design and Implementation.
ComputationalLinguistics and Chinese Language Processing.10(4): 417-430.Marc Kemps-Snijders, Mark-Jan Nederhof, and PeterWittenburg.
2006.
LEXUS, a web-based tool formanipulating lexical resources.
Accepted for publi-cation in Proceedings of LREC2006, Genoa, Italy.Andrea Marchetti, Maurizio Tesconi, and SalvatoreMinutoli.
2005.
XFlow: An XML-Based Docu-ment-Centric Workflow.
In Proceedings ofWISE?05, pages 290-303, New York, NY, USA.Wim Peters, Piek Vossen, Pedro Diez-Orzas, andGeert Adriaens.
1998.
Cross-linguistic Alignmentof Wordnets with an Inter-Lingual-Index.
In NancyIde, Daniel Greenstein, and Piek Vossen, editors,Special Issue on EuroWordNet, Computers and theHumanities, 32(2-3): 221-251.Laurent Romary, Gil Francopoulo, Monica Monachi-ni, and Susanne Salmon-Alt 2006.
Lexical MarkupFramework (LMF): working to reach a consensualISO standard on lexicons.
Accepted for publicationin Proceedings of LREC2006, Genoa, Italy.Adriana Roventini, Antonietta Alonge, FrancescaBertagna, Nicoletta Calzolari, Christian Girardi,Bernardo Magnini, Rita Marinelli, and AntonioZampolli.
2003.
ItalWordNet: Building a LargeSemantic Database for the Automatic Treatment ofItalian.
In Antonio Zampolli, Nicoletta Calzolari,and Laura Cignoni, editors, Computational Lingui-stics in Pisa, IEPI, Pisa-Roma, pages 745-791.Nilda Ruimy, Monica Monachini, Elisabetta Gola,Nicoletta Calzolari, Cristina Del Fiorentino, MarisaUlivieri, and Sergio Rossi.
2003.
A ComputationalSemantic Lexicon of Italian: SIMPLE.
In AntonioZampolli, Nicoletta Calzolari, and Laura Cignoni,editors, Computational Linguistics in Pisa, IEPI,Pisa-Roma, pages 821-864.Claudia Soria, Maurizio Tesconi, Francesca Bertagna,Nicoletta Calzolari, Andrea Marchetti, and MonicaMonachini.
2006.
Moving to Dynamic Computa-tional Lexicons with LeXFlow.
Accepted for pu-blication in Proceedings of LREC2006, Genova, I-taly.Piek Vossen.
1998.
Introduction to EuroWordNet.
InNancy Ide, Daniel Greenstein, and Piek Vossen,editors, Special Issue on EuroWordNet, Computersand the Humanities, 32(2-3): 73-89.24
