Interpreting Genre Evolution on the Web:Preliminary ResultsMarina SantiniUniversity of BrightonLewes Rd, Moulsecoomb Campus,Brighton, BN2 4GJ (UK)Marina.Santini@itri.brighton.ac.ukAbstractThe study presented in this paperexplores the current state of genreevolution on the web through web users?perception.
More precisely, it exploresthe perception of genres when users arefaced not only with prototypical genreexemplars but also with hybrid orindividualized web pages, and interpretthe subjects?
perception in term of genreevolution Although this exploration ispartial (23 labels to be assigned to 25web pages), it offers an interestingsection of the genre repertoire on theweb.
This study can be also seen as aconfirmatory study, because it confirmsthat a number of recent web genres,unprecedented in the paper world (suchas home page, FAQs, and blog) can berecognized by the subjects; others havenot fully emerged and many web usersare not familiar with their new genrelabels; finally some web pages show ahigh level of ambiguity and web userslargely disagree on assigning labels tothem.1 IntroductionThe study presented in this paper has beendesigned to explore the current state of genreevolution on the web through web users?perception.
The web can be interpreted, amongother things, as a genre repertoire in evolutionbecause there are still many genre labels whichhave not been consolidated and many web pagesthat cannot be sorted into a recognized andacknowledged genre.
The interpretation  of theweb as a genre repertoire in evolution has beendeveloped within a research project on automaticidentification of genre in web pages (Santini,2006b).
This interpretation is an attempt toexplain the high level of hybridism andindividualization of many web pages, whichresult in classification intractability.
The studyreported in this paper shows that humans havethe same problems as classification algorithmswhen it comes to less standardized andconventionalized web pages.As it has often been pointed out (for example,cf.
Kwasnik and Crowston, 2005), it is hard topin down the concept of genre from a singleperspective or to find an agreed definition ofwhat genre is.
This lack is also experienced inthe more restricted world of non-literary or non-fictional genres, such as professional orinstrumental genres, where the variation due topersonal style is less pronounced than in literarygenres.
In particular, scholars working withpractical genres focus upon a specificenvironment.
For instance Swales (1990)develops his notion of genre in academic andresearch settings, Bathia (1993) and Trosborg(2000) in professional settings, Yates andOrlikowsky (1992) within organizationalcommunication.
Despite the lack of an agreedtheoretical notion, genre is a well-establishedterm (cf.
Karlgren, 2004), intuitively understoodin its vagueness.
Classifying documents by genreis a common operation that humans perform withmore or less effort.Genres can be seen as ?artifacts?, i.e.
culturalobjects created to meet and streamlinecommunicative needs.
These cultural objectsrepresent the role that a certain type ofdocuments plays in an environment.
Each genreshows a set of standardized or conventionalcharacteristics that makes it recognizable among32others, and this kind of identity raises specificexpectations in the recipients, despite thefuzziness of genre labels (cf.
Santini, 2005).Being cultural objects, showing commonconventions and raising similar expectations areunifying traits.
Together with these, there is anumber of separating traits, such as hybridism,individualization, and evolution.
In fact, genresare not mutually exclusive and different genrescan be merged in a single document, generatinghybrid forms.
Genres are based on conventions,but allow a certain freedom of  variation andconsequently can be individualized.Being artifacts, sharing conventions andexpectations, showing hybridism andindividualization, and undergoing evolution areimportant traits characterizing all sorts of genres.More precisely, genres can be defined as culturalartifacts, i.e.
objects linked to a culture, a societyor a community, bearing standardized features(conventions) but leaving space for creativity(individualization).
On the one hand,standardized and recurrent features inducepredictable expectations in the receivers.
On theother hand, the freedom allowed by creativityallow genres to change, evolve, and be created tomeet new needs (genre evolution), especiallyunder the impulse of a new communicationmedium.
While the change is still ongoing, i.e.before a modified genre is redefined, or a newgenre is identified with a new name, documentsshow mixed forms and functions (genrehybridism).This view of genre is flexible enough toencompass not only paper genres (both literaryand practical genres), but also digital genres and,more specifically, web genres, such as thepersonal home page.
The personal home pagehas no evident antecedent in the paper world (cf.Dillon and Gushrowski, 2000).
It sprang up onthe web as a new cultural object servicing thecommunity of web users.
When browsing apersonal home page, web users expect a blend ofstandardized information (self-narration,personal interests, contact details, and oftenpictures related to one?s life) and personal touch.Another important thing to notice is thatbefore genre conventions become fullystandardized, genres do not have an officialname.
A genre name becomes acknowledgedwhen the genre itself has a role and acommunicative function in a community orsociety (G?rlach, 2004: 9).
Before thisacknowledgement, a genre shows hybrid orindividualized forms, and undefined functions.For example, before 1998 web logs (or blogs)were already present on the Web, but they werenot identified as a genre.
They were just ?webpages?, with similar characteristics andfunctions.
In 1999, suddenly a community sprangup using this new genre (Blood, 2000).
Only atthis point, the genre label ?web log?
or ?blog?started spreading and being recognized.Genre hybridism and individualization areevident on the web, and play an important role inthe change and the creation of new genres.
Infact, web pages ?
which can be considered as anew kind of document, much more unpredictableand customized than paper documents (Santini,2006a) ?
are often hybrid because of intra-genreand inter-genre variations.
They are also highlyindividualized because of the creative freedomprovided by HTML or XML tags (the buildingblocks of web pages) or programming languagessuch as Javascript.
On the web, new genres areconstantly added (blogs, clogs, eshops, wikis,etc.)
and traditional genres are adapted orupdated in order to include more or differentfunctionalities (online front pages, ezines, netads, etc.).
Genres such as emails, newsletters,search pages, eshops, etc.
were a futuristicprophecy only 10 or 15 years ago, while todaythey belong to the normal life of a web user.Presumably, other genres will soon be added tomeet new communicative needs brought aboutby new technologies.As any other evolutions, also genre evolutionproceeds along the axis of time.
It is a diachronicprocess.
There must be a ?before?
and an ?after?.What often hallmarks a ?before?
and an ?after?
isthe introduction of a new communicationmedium within a culture, a society, a community.The added value of studying genres on the web(a new medium) is represented by the possibilityof following the development of genres andgenres repertoires live, i.e.
while it is takingplace, and not a posteriori.
That is, on the webwe can capture synchronically a diachronicprocess.
From a synchronic point of view, thegenre repertoire is a continuum, where there arethree forces interacting: what we bring from thepast (reproduced genres), what is new or adaptedto the new environment (novel genres andadapted genres), what is going to emerge and isnot fully formed yet (emerging genres).This view of genre evolution complementsprevious studies on the same subject (cf.Crowston and Williams, 1997; Shepherd andWatters, 1998; Kwasnik and Crowston, 2005).The main contribution of the synchronic33continuum is that an additional force has beenacknowledged to take part in the evolutionprocess, i.e.
emerging genres.
Emerging genresare those that are not fully standardized, that arestill in formation and for which a genre label hasnot been created or have a label which is stillopaque to the majority of users.
Currently manyweb pages are in this phase of evolution,showing a high level of hybridism orindividualization.
We suggest that the subjects?perception of these web pages can be interpretedin term of genre evolution.The study reported in this paper provides asnapshot of the current state of the genrerepertoire of web pages seen through theperception of web users.
Although this view ispartial (23 labels to be assigned to 25 webpages), it offers an interesting section of thegenre repertoire on the web.
This study can bealso seen as a confirmatory study, because itconfirms that a number of recent web genres,unprecedented in the paper world (such as homepage, FAQs, blog) can be recognized by thesubjects; others have not fully emerged andmany web users are not familiar with their newgenre labels; finally some web pages show a highlevel of ambiguity and web users largerlydisagree on assigning labels to them.The article is organized as follows: Section 2presents a short overview of previous work;Section 3 describes the web study and presentspreliminary results; in Section 4 someconclusions are drawn.2 Previous WorkNo studies have been carried out so far on users?perception of a genre repertoire in transition.Crowston and Williams (1997) were the firstwho reported on the genre repertoire on the web.They identified 48 reproduced and emergentgenres in a sample of about 1,000 web pages.A few user studies were carried out with themore pragmatic approach of exploring theusefulness of genre to improve web searches anddefining a genre palette appropriate for thispurpose.
The most comprehensive study relatedto genre effectiveness for web searching isrecent.
Rosso (2005) carried out a series of fourlinked experiments, all based on human subjects.Quite surprisingly, the conclusion drawn by theauthor was that genre-annotated search resultsproduced no significant improvement inparticipants?
ability to make more consistent orfaster assessment on the relevance of searchresults (Rosso, 2005: 133-179).
In fact, only 17of 32 participants reported noticing the genrelabel (Rosso, 2005: 176).
Most probably, aspointed out by the author, this outcome wasinfluenced by the difficulty and complexity ofthe task, together with the limitations of thesetting (Rosso, 2005: 170-172).Rosso?s attempt to assess the relevance ofsearch results including genre labels was almostunique.
All other studies with web users, incontrast, did not provide any assessment of howwell genres improved a web search.
Thesestudies are more like surveys on users?preferences in terms of useful non-topicalcategories that can help restrict web searches.Along this line, Meyer zu Eissen and Stein(2004) built a genre palette for the web using twocriteria: usability and feasibility.
Their user studywas based on a questionnaire where they askedabout search engine use, usefulness of genreclassification, and usefulness of genre classes.Interestingly, the authors note that one of theinherent problems of genre classification is that?even humans are not able to consistently specifythe genre of a given page?
because web pageshave different functions, i.e.
they might behybrid forms, as in the case of productinformation sites that are combined with ashopping interface.Roussinov et al (2001) carried out aexploratory study of web users in order toidentify what genres they most/least frequentlycome in contact with, and what genres most/leastaddress their information needs.
In their study,carried out in 2000, 116 different genres wereidentified, but not all web pages could beclassified.Karlgren (2000: 99 ff.
), a pioneer in building agenre palette, tried to collect genres that wereboth consistent with what users expect as well asconveniently computable.
He sent around aquestionnaire where the core question was:?What genres do you feel you find on theWWW??.
He ended up with a palette of 11genres.
One frequent comment by therespondents was that the genres in the palettewere not mutually exclusive, in other words theyshowed some level of hybridism.Very informative in many respects, thesestudies have in common the practical aim ofimproving web searches.
This might explain whythey overlook difficult issues such as thehybridism or the individualization of many webpages, which are nonetheless perceived by thesubjects.
The authors must necessarily focus on34unambiguous exemplars, showing clear-cutconventions and expectations.The present study, on the other hand, exploresthe perception of genres when users are faced notonly with prototypical genre exemplars but alsowith hybrid or individualized web pages, andinterpret the subjects?
perception in term of genreevolution.3 Web StudyThe study described in this section was web-based.
It was uploaded on to one of the servers atUniversity of Brighton at the end of February2005, and kept online for one month.The study is based on participants whovolunteered within the University of Brighton(UK), University of Sussex (UK), DalhousieUniversity (Canada), Syracuse University(USA), plus other academics (interested ingenre-related issues) in other universities andresearch institutes in Europe.
Potentialparticipants were sent an email containing theURL of the study on the web.3.1 Population and Sample: AcademicEnvironmentGenre recognition and acknowledgement isbased on elements like education, culture,community, and society.
The academicpopulation on which the study is built upon hasthree elements in common:?
it is a medium-high educated population(from administrative people to studentsand professors);?
it is very used to computer-meditatedcommunication;?
it is familiar with the Web.3.2 Web Pages and Web GenresWeb pages were chosen by the author of thispaper from the live Web and from the SPIRITcollection of web pages (Joho and Sanderson,2004).
Three typologies of web genres and webpages were hypothesized for the selection and forthe study (the web pages included in the studyare available, together with their URLs, athttp://www.nltg.brighton.ac.uk/home/Marina.Santini/:1) Easy web genres:1. eshop (web_page_01)2. personal home page (web_page_02)3. front page (web_page_04)4. search page (web_page_05)5. corporate home page (web_page_11)6.
FAQs (web_page_12, the word ?FAQs?was deleted from the heading)7. splash screen (web_page_24)8. net ad (web_page_2)2) Ambiguous web genres:9. email (web_page_03, because of theformat and the granularity: email vs.mailing list)10. sitemap (web_page_06, the words?sitemap?
and ?hotlist?
were deletedfrom the heading)11. hotlist (web_page_15,the word?hotlist?
was deleted from theheading),12. academic personal home page(web_page_08)13. about page (web_page_10)14. organizational home page(web_page_14)15. blog (web_page_07)16. clog (web_page_16,blog and clog couldbe swapped in their interpretation)17. search by multiple fields(web_page_17)18. online form (web_page_10, onlineforms and search by multiple fieldcan appear very similar)19. newsletter (web_page_19, which waspresented truncated),20. howto page (web_page_20)21. online tutorial (web_page_22, onlinetutorial is a super-genre of howtopages)3) Difficult web pages:22. ezine cover (web_page_13)23.
?Adirondack Orienteering Klub?
(web_page_18, the author could notfind a genre for it)24.
CitiDex (web_page_21, the authorcould not find a genre for it)25.
Collimating Lens Holder (web_page_23,the author could not find a genre forit)The expectation was that easy web genres wouldcollect the highest rate of agreement, ambiguousweb genres would receive a lower agreementrate, while difficult web pages were expected tobe the most controversial in users?
perception.The term ?genre?
was never mentioned in thewhole study in order not to influence or confusethe participants.
The goal of the study was notdeclared either because the idea was to ask for agenre classification of web pages implicitly andstudy the reactions.
Participants were simply toldto assign ?labels?
to web page ?types?.3.3 Participants?
Task and Sample SizeThe task of participants was straightforward.They had to go through 25 screenshots of webpages and assign one of the 23 labels to each ofthem.The total number of users who started theexperiment was 198.
135 participants went35through the whole study and provided validresponses for the experiment.3.4 ResultsCurrently, there is no standard test largely agreedupon that can be used for experiments wheresubjects can make choices from a large numberof categories (23 labels) for a large number ofobjects (25 web pages).
In the followingparagraphs some views and interpretations of thedata are presented, namely raw counts andpercentages, Fisher?s exact test, and adjustedresiduals.Raw Counts and Percentages.
A view on thedata is offered in Table 2, which shows thenumber of subjects assigning a particular label toa particular web page and the percentage of themost voted label.
For example,  the label eshop(8th row) was assigned to WP11 (first column) by119 subjects (highlighted cell), whichcorresponds to 88.15% (bottom row).
Foursubjects thought that WP1 was a corporate homepages (around 2.9%), seven selected net ad(around 5%), one subject chose front page(around 0.7%), one hotlist, one did not know, twoadded a new label for it (around 1.4%).Three  ranges of agreement can be identifiedout of this table.
The top range includes webpages with a percentage of agreement above80%; the middle range groups web pages with anagreement between 79% and 50%; finally thebottom range contains web pages with anagreement between 49 % and 20%.
Table 1 liststhe web pages by percentage of agreement.From these ranges a first conclusion can bedrawn.
According to the ranges shown in Table1, participants show the highest agreement onwhat we selected as ?easy web genres?, except inthree cases: front pages, net ad and splash screen,which seem among the least agreed upon (seebottom range).
The middle range includes mostof the ambiguous web genres together withezine, which was deemed to be difficult by theauthor.
The bottom range includes the rest of theambiguous genres, together with other difficultweb pages  and three web pages from the toprange, webpage_type_04 (front page),webpage_type_24 (splash screen) andwebpage_type_25 (net ad).We have now a first picture of users?perception of some web pages in relation to someweb genre labels.
The hypothesized genre1 WP1, WP2, WP3, etc.
are short form ofwebpage_01, webpage_02, webpage_03, etc.recognition pattern was mostly confirmed in thetop range, but slightly reshuffled in the middleand bottom ranges.
Figure 1 shows the chartedpercentages.Fisher?s Exact Test.
The percentages at thebottom row in Table 2 can be interpreted interms of conditional distribution on the mostvoted label (response variable) per web pagetype (explanatory variable).
In other words, theyrefer to the sample distribution of most votedlabels, conditional to the web page type.
In termsof association, this means that the distribution ofthe response variable (the label) changes with thevalue of the explanatory variable (the web pagetype) if the two variables are related.
Table 2suggests the existence of an association orcorrelation between the label and  the web pageto which this label was assigned.
But as Table 2refers to the sample rather than the population, itprovides evidence but not the final answer towhether labels and web page types are associatedin the way suggested by the percentages.
In orderto see if it is plausible that labels and web pagetypes are associated in the population, Fisher?sexact test can be calculated.
The value returnedfor this test by SPSS is 9292.275, which is largeenough to reject the hypothesis that labels andweb page are independent2.
This statisticallysignificant association shows that the web pageschosen by the author to represent some webgenres mostly map the subjects?
perception ofthese web pages.
It also shows that many genrelabels are acknowledged by the users and areconsistently associated to web pages.Adjusted Residuals: A test statistic, such asFisher?s exact test, and  statistical significancesummarize the strength of evidence against thenull hypothesis of independence, but does notindicate how many and which cells deviategreatly from this hypothesis.
Residuals, i.e.
thedifferences between expected and observed cellfrequencies can help in this task.
In particular,adjusted residuals can indicate if the cell countsare significantly different from whatindependence predicts.
A large adjusted residualprovides evidence against independence of a cell.As Table 3 mostly maps Table 2, a significantassociation between genre labels and web pagetypes on the cells containing the most votedlabels is then confirmed.2 The larger the value, the greater the evidence againstthe null hypothesis of independence.363.5 DiscussionThe original impression that there were differentdegree of perception of genres of web pages wasconfirmed by these preliminary results.
Also therough distinction into three levels of genreawareness (easy, ambiguous and difficult) wasconfirmed.
Three ranges of perception came outclearly from percentages, but the distribution ofthe web pages into these three ranges is slightlydifferent from what was expected.The general view of the results (Fisher?s test)reveals that there is a significant associationbetween the 25 web pages and the 23 labels.
Theanalysis of adjusted residuals support thisinterpretation.The agreement among subjects on the label toassign to a particular web pages can be dividedinto three levels.At the first level, which can be interpreted asthe highest perception of web genres, there areweb pages labelled as personal home page(webpage_type_02), eshop (webpage_type_01),corporate home page (webpage_type_11), FAQs(webpage_type_12), and search pages(webpage_type_05).
We can define these labelsas stable web genres.At a middle level of perception, there are webgenres still emerging.
Most of the labels arefairly novel (ezine, clog, blog, about, how to),sometimes not entirely transparent, and some ofthem are specialized (academic home page,organizational home page, online tutorial).Probably the textual conventions of these genresare not entirely standardized yet and can causeoscillation in users?
perception.
This level offersthe most interesting view on a genre repertoirewhich is moving and evolving and it is notconsolidated yet.The bottom range shows a blurred level ofperception for different reasons.
For some genressuch as email and newsletter, the presentation inform of screenshots was not ideal.
Subjects couldnot navigate through the web page and theycould not resolve the level of granularity.
Forinstance, for webpage_type_03 (the web pageselected by the author to represent an email), 66subjects chose email, but 34 subjects preferred toadd a new label for it and 20 thought it was anabout page.
Surprisingly, labels such as splashscreen and front page for webpage_type_04 andwebpage_type_24 were not favoured by therespondents who preferred to add their ownlabels in many cases.
For webpage_type_06,subjects preferred the label search page insteadof sitemap.
Another interesting case is net ad(webpage_type_25), which was often assessed aseshop, probably because the concept ofadvertising and selling are closely related.
Themost opaque label seems to be hotlist(webpage_type_15) because most subjectpreferred to add their own label.
Three of thefour web pages that were classified by the authoras ?I don?t know?
belong to this level ofperception.
While webpage_type_21 fell into themiddle range because most of the subjectsperceive it as a search page, the genre perceptionor interpretation of webpage_type_17,webpage_type_18, and webpage_type_23 is notso straightforward.
For instance,webpage_type_17 was assessed as online form(57 subjects), search page (26 subjects), an eshop(26 subjects) and probably it is has all thesefunctions at the same.4 Conclusions and Future WorkThe study shows a composite picture of theperception of the genre repertoire on the Web.This picture focuses on recent genres only,overlooking those more based on paper genresbecause, in our opinion, this hot area can revealmore about the dynamics behind genre evolution.Preliminary findings coming out from thisstudy confirm the initial hypothesis and showthat users?
perception can be divided into threeranges.
These three ranges can be interpreted interms of genre evolution: high perception for themost stable and acknowledge genres; mediumperception for emerging genres, not fullyacknowledged by the majority or still unstable,and finally low perception for the highlyambiguous genres (for different reasons).
Someof the new web genres can be unambiguouslyperceived (for example, personal home page,eshop, corporate home page, FAQs and searchpage).Web users can also handle a certain degree ofgranularity, for example by distinguishing apersonal home page from a corporate home page,but the boundary between academic home pagesand organizational home pages is still too fuzzyfor them.The approach to the web as a genre repertoirein evolution and these preliminary findings canturn out to be useful when building web genrepalettes or when designing new genreidentification experiments.Future work includes the computation ofagreement coefficients.
K statistic is largely used37but still controversial and mostly used formeasuring the agreement of two or three raters.Two new interesting measures to assess users?recognition of web page genres were used byRosso (2005: 109 ff.
), but their full interpretationis still under study.
The challenging follow up ofthese preliminary results is to find an objectivecoefficient of agreement applicable for 135 ratersthat can choose among 23 categories to classify25 objects.ReferencesBathia Vijay (1993), Analysing Genre.
Language Usein Professional Settings, Longman, London-NY.Blood R. (2000),Weblogs: A History and Perspective,http://www.rebeccablood.net/essays/weblog_history.htmCrowston K. and Williams M. (1997), Reproducedand Emergent Genres of Communication on theWorld-Wide Web, Proc.
30th Hawaii InternationalConference on System Sciences.Dillon A. and Gushrowski B.
(2000), Genres and theWeb: is the personal home page the first uniquelydigital genre?, Journal of the American Society forInformation Science, 51, 2.G?rlach M. (2004), Text Types and the History ofEnglish, Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin-NY.Joho H. and Sanderson M. (2004), The SPIRITcollection: an overview of a large web collection,SIGIR Forum, December 2004 (Vol.
38, N. 2)Karlgren J.
(2000), Stylistic Experiments forInformation Retrieval, Thesis submitted for thedegree of PhD,  Stockholm University, Sweden.Karlgren J.
(2004), The Wheres and Whyfores forStudying Textual Genre Computationally, Papersfrom the AAAI Fall Symposium.Kwasnik, B. and Crowston, K. (2005), Genres ofdigital documents: Introduction to the special issue,Information, Technology & People, 18(2), 76?88.Meyer zu Eissen S. and Stein B.
(2004), GenreClassification of Web Pages: User Study andFeasibility Analysis, in Biundo S., Fruhwirth T.and Palm G.
(eds.
), KI 2004: Advances in ArtificialIntelligence, Springer, Berlin-Hedelberg-NY, p.256-269.Rosso M. (2005), Using Genre to Improve WebSearch, Thesis submitted for the degree of PhD,University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA.Roussinov D., Crowston K., Nilan M., Kwasnik B.,Cai J., Liu X.
(2001), Genre Based Navigation onthe Web, Proc.
34th Hawaii InternationalConference on System Sciences.Santini M. (2005), Genres In Formation?
AnExploratory Study of Web Pages using ClusterAnalysis, Proc.
CLUK 05.Santini M. (2006a), Web pages, text types, andlinguistic features: Some issues, ICAME Journal,Vol.
30.Santini M. (2006b), Automatic Identification ofGenres in Web Pages, forthcoming.Shepherd M. and Watters C. (1998), The Evolution ofCybergenre, Proc.
31st Hawaii InternationalConference on System Sciences.Swales J.
(1990), Genre Analysis.
English inacademic and research settings, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Trosborg Ann (ed.)
(2000), Analysing ProfessionalGenres, John Benjamins Publishing Company,Amsterdam-Philadelphia.Yates J., and Orlikowski W. (1992), Genres oforganizational communication: A structuralapproach to studying communications and media,Academy of Management Review, Vol.
17, 2, 229-326.AppendixzTable 1.
Ranges of percentages38Table 2.
Users?
assignment and percentagesFigure 1.
Charted percentagesTable 3.
Adjusted residuals39
