Formal Semantics Of Verbs For Knowledge InferenceIgor Boyko, Ph.D.Logical Properties Inc., Montreal, Canadaigor_m_boyko@hotmail.comAbstractThis short paper is focused on the formal semantic model: Universal Semantic Code(USC), which acquires a semantic lexicon from thesauruses and pairs it with formalmeaning representation.
The USC model postulates: Knowledge Inference (KI) is effec-tive only on the basis of Semantic Knowledge Representation (SKR).
The USC modelrepresents formalized meanings of verbs and phrasal verbs as a main component of itssemantic classification.
USC algebra defines a formula for the verb, limited set of ele-ments, relations between them, and a natural language interpretation of the formula.1 IntroductionKnowledge Inference applications development depends on natural language processing (NLP)components including lexical classifiers for word sense disambiguation.
Word meaning classifi-cation and word sense disambiguation techniques facilitate understanding of the terms from dif-ferent domains.Numerous approaches of the lexical classification exist.
A regular thesaurus defines the mean-ing of the world but not provides its formal classification what excludes the possibility of KRand KI from such source.
Unfortunately in this short paper we are not able to make deep analysisof known methods of knowledge inference in comparison with USC and therefore will talk aboutmain features of the USC model.Functional classification of verbs based on Universal Semantic Code (Martynov, 1996, 2001)covers the idea of combining the thesaurus and formal representation.
In the core the USC modelconsiders verbs as actions and provides inference of the consequences of actions.2 Formalization of the Verb ClassesThe USC model has algebraic and logic roots and declares that knowledge can be representedand stored with semantic code, and knowledge inference can be implemented on the basis of thetheorems and axioms operating with the semantic code.Every verb represents an action and every natural language statement comprises an action.Even a statement ?the desk?
means the action: ?the desk exists?.
Since USC does not make a dif-ference between ?action?
and ?verb?
we consider ?verb?
or ?action?
as a main component of theworld description.
Every action should be surrounded with some elements.Potentially any action is a reaction on some stimulus where stimulus is an action too.
Three-component USC notation (X!Y) !Z means stimulus: X by means of Y affects on Z.The first element of the reaction is always equal to the last element of the stimulus, becausesome action was implemented with the object Z.
An example of the complete USC formula is((X!Y)!Z)!
((Z!Y)!W) or shortly ((XY)Z)((ZY)W).
On the abstract level the interpreta-tion of the formula is: ?X by means of Y affects on Z (stimulus) in a result Z by means of Y af-fects on W (reaction)?.In USC the reaction part of the formula can be ?active?
or ?passive?
:((XY)Z)((ZY)W) ?
?active?
formula((XY)Z)(Z(YW)) ?
?passive?
formula with the interpretation: X by means of Y affects on Z ina result Z holds Y in W.The difference is in changing the position of the parenthesis in the right part of the formula.The active reaction represents an active action like: create, destroy, compress, etc.
and the pas-sive reaction represents a passive action like: exist, absent, etc.Each USC formula represents a class of similar actions or similar verbs.
The action assigned asa name to the class represents all of those similar actions.
The class action (CA) defines a nameof the class and has one or minimal number of meanings.
For example, the class ?fill?
comprisesa list of actions-analogues in Fig.1.
Fig.2 demonstrates actions-analogues for the class ?pay?.Fig 1.
Class ?Fill?Fig 2.
Class ?Pay?We would like to emphasize that the action ?charge?
is displaced in the both examples accord-ing to the meaning.3 Interpretation of the CASince each CA represents the class of the actions, we are able to formulate its interpretation forextracting the hidden members of the action.The action ?fill?
has th  by means of Y fills Z into W?.
Tact  of the act  substitute tential su fthe nstance:subject - wThEme(phFThastionAction verb:FillActions-analogues:ChargeInflateLoad upAction verb:PayActions-analogues:ChargeDisbursePay backive membersaction.
For i?
X =?
Y = instrumen?
Z = first objec?
W = second obe complete phrase is: ?ach action of the clasmber of the class ?fillrasal verb) ?load up?
hor the action ?pay?
the?
X = subject - c?
Y = tool - cred?
Z = object - me complete phrase is: ?a member of the class?pay back?
has the ine interpretation ?Xion, their roles andorkert - loading armt - oilject - tankerWorker by means of the loadins ?fill?
has the same interpr?, the interpretation is: ?X byas the interpretation: ?X by minterpretation is: ?X by meanustomerit cardoneyCustomer by means of credit?pay?
has the interpretation:terpretation: ?X by means of Ythem with pog arm fills oil into theetation.
So for the acmeans of Y charges Zeans of Y loads up Z is of Y pays Z?, where:card pays money?.
So?X by means of Y chapays back Z?.
hen we extract thebject and objects o tanker?.tion ?charge?, as ain W?
and actionn W?.the action ?charge?rges Z?
and the ac-4 Formal Representation of the CASo far we have CAs: ?fill?
and ?pay?
and determined their sets of variables:?
Fill ?
X?
Pay ?
XComplete foand the seconderal steps.
For?A worker byor ?A workerThe operatThe left pathe right partsstandard logicence of one eleSo for the?A customerof the credit cThose formuThe operatioand consideredUSC is a kinbe in, to be on?inside?, ?not iFor example aNow we canconsidered twoYZWYZ rmula of the class consists of two parts.
The first part of the formula is a stimuluspart is a reaction on the stimulus.
A procedure of reading of the formula has sev-instance, the formula and interpretation for the action ?fill?:((X!Y)!Z)!(Z!
(Y!W))means of the loading arm affects oil in a result oil being kept within the tanker?fills oil into the tanker by the loading arm?.ion of implication [!]
demonstrates the direction of the action.rt of all USC formula: ((X!Y)!Z) is identical as a stimulus for all actions, butare different.
The operation of implication between two parts of the formula is aal implication.
But implication inside of the parts of the formula is a directed influ-ment onto another.CA ?pay?
the formula and interpretation are:((X!Y)!Z)!(Z!(Z!Y?
))by means of the credit card affects the money in a result the money being kept outard?
or ?A customer pays the money by the credit card?.las for ?fill?
and ?pay?
differ in the right part.n [ ? ]
is a pointer on the location of one object with respect to another in spaceas a negation to the location.d of a spatial geometry.
All objects in the world can have one of three locations: tothe cover, to be out of the cover and notations like: W, W?, W??
mean accordinglynside?
that is equal to ?superficially?, ?not superficially?
that is equal to ?outside?.ctions: ?compress?
is in, ?join?
is on, ?disperse?
is out and they are active.W = insideW?= not in !
superficiallyW??
= not superficially !
outsideFig.3 Location of the objects in spacerepresent action as four-element structure (Fig.4):Fig.4.
Structure of the actionClass action:FillInterpretation:X by means of Y fills Zinto WActions-analogs:ChargeInflateLoad upFormula:((X!Y)!Z)!(Z!
(Y!W))5 USC AxiomsKI with the USC model is based on the axioms of the USC algebra.
Relations between USCformulas can be represented as an oriented graph of the axioms.
The nodes of the graph are rep-resented by the USC formulas and the arcs are the USC axioms.
Since a solution of an intellec-tual problem is a kind of inference the solution can be obtained as a route of arcs.
The algorithmof the problem solving is based on the successive drawing of the route from the target situationto the initial one or vice versa.The axioms of the USC algebra determine the rules of conversion from one formula into an-other.
For example, the axiom of transposition determines changing of parenthesis in the rightpart of the formula:((XY)Z)((ZW)Z??)
" ((XY)Z)(Z(WZ??))
== if ?create? "
then ?exist?In the axiom of diffusion the right part of the formula can be converted by replacing the vari-able in the first or second position into the second or third position (Fig.5).
With CAs in the posi-tions of the formulas we receive the consequences of the actions in Fig.6.
((ZW)Y)             ((ZY)W))((ZW)W) (ZW)Z)       ((ZY)Z)    ((ZY)Y))((ZZ)W)               ((ZZ)Z)) (ZZ)Y))Fig 5.
Axiom of diffusionembed     extractconnect      prevent implement     disconnectfill         move            withdrawFig 6.
Substitution with CAsThe arrows between formulas determine the direction of the inference from the action to theaction.
The nodes of the both graphs show antonymic dependence of the class names, like: ?em-bed?
?
?extract?
or ?connect?
?
?disconnect?.A set of the USC axioms consists of two parts (Martynov, 2001):a) Four axioms of generation defining sets of variables and their positions in the formulab) Four axioms of transformation defining rules of converting one formula into anotherThe axioms define the consequence of the actions cannot be arbitrary.So, the formal part of the USC algebra has been determined as A = < M, !, ?
>, where M is aset of elements, !
is a binary-non-commutative and non-associative operation on the given set(the operation of implication), [?]
is a unary operation on the given set (the operation of nega-tion).
It strictly corresponds to Lukasiewicz variant of algebra  (Lukasiewicz, 1958).6 Semantic Knowledge Inference with USCTo start knowledge inference with USC we should ask: What are we going to infer?
Since USCoperates with the actions we will calculate the consequences of the actions because each actionhas a precedent action or a cause and each action is a cause for a consequent action:(precedent  action !
current action!
consequent action) == (precedent  verb !
current verb!consequent verb).As an example we will consider a process of cooking liquid according to the description (Bon-nisone, 1985): ?The coffee machine?s container comprises cold water and heating elements.
Theheating elements heat the water in a result the water steam is lifting to the top of the containerwhere grain coffee is displaced.
The steam is condensing in the top cold part of the containerthen percolates through grain coffee and drops into the cap?.According to the goal the final result is ?cooked coffee?.
Extraction of the actions from the de-scription gives us a consequence of the actions: heat !
lift !
condense !
percolate !
drop?.Substitution of the actions with the USC formulas gives a consequence of the formulas:(ZY)Y?
!
(ZY)Y??
!
(ZW)Y?
!
(ZY)W??
!
Z(YZ??
).Using the graph of the USC axiomatic action relations we are able to verify correctness of theformulas order.
We will start the analysis from the last formula Z(YZ).
According to the axiomsthis formula cannot be derived from the (ZY)W. To derive it one intermediate formula should beintroduced: (ZY)W??
!
Z(YW??)
!
Z(YZ??).
This inference extends the final stage of the proc-ess and corresponds to the USC thesaurus: percolate !
cook !
drop.
Such inference looks logi-cally correct because cooked coffee is a result of percolation and only then cooked coffee dropsdown.On the next step we consider a relation between (ZW)Y?
and (ZY)W??.
According to the axi-oms the next inference between two formulas should be implemented:(ZW)Y?
!
(ZY)W?
!
(ZY)W?
?or   condense !
liquefy !
percolate.If we combine two steps of the inference together then receive the consequence:(ZW)Y?
!
(ZY)W?
!
(ZY)W??
!
Z(YW??)
!
Z(YZ??
)or   condense !
liquefy    !
percolate !
cook     !
drop.The next step of verification for (ZY)Y??
!
(ZW)Y?
shows a necessity to introduce an inter-mediate formula:(ZY)Y??!
(ZW)Y??
!
(ZW)Y?or      lift     !
cool     !
condense.The final step of verification shows explicit axiomatic relation (ZY)Y?
!
(ZY)Y?
?.In a result we have the consequence of the actions:(ZY)Y?
!
(ZY)Y??!
(ZW)Y??
!
(ZW)Y?
!
(ZY)W?
!
(ZY)W??
!
Z(YW??)
!
Z(YZ??
)or   heat     !
lift     !
cool      !
condense !
liquefy    !
percolate !
cook     !
drop.Now we are able to reconstruct the description of the whole process in the extended and cor-rected form: ?The coffee machine?s container comprises cold water and heating elements.
Theheating elements heat the water in a result the water steam is lifting to the top of the containerwhere grain coffee is displaced.
Oh the top the steam is cooling and condensing on the grain cof-fee.
As a result the grain coffee is liquefying and liquid is percolating through.
Percolated liquidis a liquid coffee which drops into the cap?.The example includes the inference with axioms presented and not presented in this short arti-cle but all set of rules, axioms and an example of the USC thesaurus could be seen in the book ofMartynov V., 2001.The model was successfully applied for the inventive problems solving (Boyko, 2001) wherean inventive solution is a consequence of the actions (technological operations) related throughthe USC axioms.
Besides, the USC inference using the USC thesaurus and axioms can be ap-plied not only for the technical domain but also for SKI in physical, chemical, biological, infor-mational, and other domains with a condition of having specialized dictionaries coordinated withthe USC thesaurus.7 ConclusionThe USC model unites several components including: formal representation of the actions,natural language interpretation, visualization of location of the elements in space, and axioms ofinference.
The latest published version of the USC action classifier comprises 96 classes dividedon two main parts: 48 physical and 48 informational classes (Martynov, 2001).
In the article wewere able to analyze only the part with physical classes.Informational classes include actions like ?forget?, ?understand?, ?offend?, ?order?
etc.
Axio-matic relations between them are similar to axiomatic relations for physical actions representedin the article with some restrictions.All classes relatively paired by the opposite or antonymic principle: create/destroy, lift/low,push/pull, remember/forget, love/hate, etc.
?Relatively paired?
means the opposite actions can bededuced by axioms and they are located on the same level in the classification table.
The wholeset of actions comprises 5200 entities.
Since 2001 year the number of the classes has not beenchanged but the names of the classes in some positions has been verified and reconsidered.Axiomatic structure has been changed slightly.Formal representation of the actions as an intermediate code in ?human-computer?
interface isthe essential property of USC.
The USC formulas have been used to represent not only verbs andphrasal verbs, but also to represent deverbal nouns and adjectives for development of the univer-sal principles of machine translation (Boyko, 2002).
The USC model can be adjusted to anynatural language.In general the models of formal semantic coding for knowledge inference is a new area of ma-chine learning that has been applied almost exclusively to classification tasks.
Most experimentsin corpus-based natural language processing present results for some subtasks and there are fewresults that can be successfully integrated to build a complete NLP system.ReferencesBoyko, I.
2001.
Computer Semantic Search of Inventive Solutions.
TRIZ Journal.
USA.
March.http://www.triz-journal.com/archives/2001/03/d/Boyko I.
2002.
Terminological Abstractions for Terminology Classification.
6th InternationalConference Terminology and Knowledge Engineering.
Nancy, France.
http://www.sempl.netBonnisone P.P., Valavanis K.P., A Comparative Study of Different Approaches to QualitativePhysics Theories.
Proceedings of the Second Conference Artificial Intelligence Applications(CAIA-85), Miami Beach, 1985.Lukasiewicz J.
1958.
Elementy Logiki Matematysznej.
Warszawa.Martynov V. 1996.
USC Calculus of Class Word and Class Ideas.
Invention Machine Pro-ject?96.
Cambridge, MA.
http://www.sempl.netMartynov V. 2001.
Foundations of semantic coding.
Summary.
European Humanity University.Minsk.
http://www.sempl.net
