Proceedings of the Workshop on Multilingual Language Resources and Interoperability, pages 32?39,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Development of a Multilingual Collocation DictionarySylviane CardeyCentre Tesni?reUniversit?
de Franche-Comt?Francesylviane.cardey@univ-fcomte.frRosita ChanCentre Tesni?re&University of Panamachan.rosita@hotmail.comPeter GreenfieldCentre Tesni?reUniversit?
de Franche-Comt?Francepeter.greenfield@univ-fcomte.frAbstractIn this paper we discuss the developmentof a multilingual collocation dictionaryfor translation purposes.
By ?collocation?we mean not only set or fixed expres-sions including idioms, simple co-occurrences of items and metaphoricaluses, but also translators?
paraphrases.We approach this problem from two di-rections.
Firstly we identify certain lin-guistic phenomena and lexicographicalrequirements that need to be respected inthe development of such dictionaries.The second and other direction concernsthe development of such dictionaries inwhich linguistic phenomena and lexico-graphic attributes are themselves a meansof access to the collocations.
The linguis-tic phenomena and lexicographical re-quirements concern variously placing thesense of collocations rather than head-words or other access methods at the cen-tre of interest, together with collocationsynonymy and translation equivalence,polysemy and non-reversibility of thelexis, and other more lexicographic prop-erties such as varieties of language andregionalisms, and types of translation.1 IntroductionIn work with developing multilingual collocationbased dictionaries for translation purposes acrossa wide variety of domains (Cardey andGreenfield, 1999; Chan 2005) various interestinglinguistic phenomena and lexicographic require-ments have been observed.
In the context of suchdictionaries, by the term collocation we includenot only set or fixed expressions (Moon, 1995,Tables 1.1 and 1.2, pp.19-20) including idioms,simple co-occurrences of items (plane ticket) andmetaphorical uses (spill the beans), but also, aswe will show, translators?
paraphrases wherethese are needed.
Linguistic phenomena includeones concerning sense (for example synonymyand translation equivalence, polysemy and non-reversibility).
Lexicographical requirements in-clude for example the requirement (for consis-tency purposes amongst others) that the colloca-tion (as article) be the centre of interest ratherthan the headword(s) whose role is one of accessto the collocations.
This is principally becausethe object of such dictionaries should be basedon inter-lingual collocation sense group corre-spondence, translation of headwords being essen-tially incidental.
Another way to view this is thatif what we wish to model is a dictionary ofsenses, these senses are expressed by interpreta-tions in the form of collocations.
However, diffi-culties are engendered with this approach.
Forexample, headwords are typically canonical inform whilst their corresponding lexical units incollocations can be variants (for example in-flected or be derivations).
Furthermore, in realitythe definition of a collocation structure for lexi-cographic purposes can itself be complex, forexample to cater for or indicate information suchas inflected forms, synonymy and translationequivalence, grammatical labelling and com-ments (Gaveiro, 1998, pp.
26 - 27, 64 - 65).More recently, our interest has been concernedwith how to develop such multilingual colloca-tion dictionaries including access to collocationsbased on linguistic phenomena as well as byheadwords (a headword can only be a singleword, even for idioms) (Chan, 2005) where theissues of particular cases at the semantic leveland at the grammatical level are important.
Here32the access to collocations can be by posing aproblem; one can ask for those collocationswhich present a problem of article for example.The linguistic phenomena and lexicographicrequirements are ones that are candidates formodelling such dictionaries using formal meth-ods, for example using the Z formal specificationlanguage (Spivey, 1992), the impetus being thatcertain domains in which such dictionaries areused are safety critical in nature.
This has re-sulted in work in respect of the state invariantspeculiar to specialised multilingual collocationbased dictionaries (Greenfield, 1998a;Greenfield, 1998b).In response to these various observed linguis-tic phenomena and lexicographical requirements,the MultiCoDiCT (Multilingual Collocation Dic-tionary System Centre Tesni?re) system was de-veloped as a research aid tool for multilinguallexicographic research (Greenfield et al, 1999;Greenfield, 2003).
The basic model underpinningMultiCoDiCT dictionaries reposes on the con-cept of the collocation sense group as a means toensure integrity and consistent access to the col-locations.
In this model a collocation in alanguage appears only once, whereas inconventional dictionary models it is theheadword in a language that appears only once.This constraint leads us to generality; not only dowe obtain reversibility of translation with noextra effort, we obtain non-reversibility of thelexis where this happens to be the case.
Further-more, headword access to a collocation also pro-vides direct access to the other collocations in thedictionary with an equivalent sense (or senses forpolysemic collocations).More recently, work on linguistic phenomenaand lexicographic attributes based access to col-locations (as well as headword access) has re-sulted in a prototype system using an algorithmicapproach (Chan, 2005) using the Studygram sys-tem (Cardey and Greenfield, 1992).In the paper we first review the linguistic phe-nomena and lexicographic requirements that wehave discerned for such multilingual collocationdictionaries.
We then discuss the development ofsuch dictionaries in which the linguistic phenom-ena and lexicographic attributes are themselves ameans of access to the collocations.
Finally, inthe conclusion we show how Studygram andMultiCoDiCT can be integrated in order to pro-vide a more general approach for the access tosuch multilingual collocation dictionaries.2 Linguistic phenomena and lexico-graphic requirementsIn the context of lexicographical research, collo-cations as articles in multilingual dictionariespresent various linguistic phenomena and lexico-graphic requirements which are sufficiently ge-neric but also sufficiently important lexico-graphically as to warrant some generalised sup-port.
The various phenomena and requirementsare illustrated in this section by the essentiallytraditional headword access method to colloca-tions as provided by the MultiCoDiCT system.The linguistic phenomena concern synonymy,polysemy and non-reversibility of the lexis intranslation.
For example synonymy is indicatedby more than one collocation having the samesense equivalence variously in the source lan-guage or in the target language (in the illustra-tions that follow the source language is on theleft and the target language is on the right); seeFigures 1 and 2.Spanish FrenchHeadwordboleto billetCollocationsbillete de avi?n (Spain)boleto de avi?n (Americanism)billet d'avionFigure 1.
Synonymy in the source languageFrench SpanishHeadwordbillet billete(Spain)boleto(Americanism)Collocationsbillet d'avion billete de avi?n (Spain)boleto de avi?n (Americanism)Figure 2.
Synonymy in the target languageIn the above two examples, the Spanish colloca-tions include annotations indicating regionalismssuch as (Spain) (Chan, 1999).
We say that collo-cations in the same or different languages whichare equivalent in that they have the same senseare members of the same sense group.
In theabove examples we can also observe variouslexicographical requirements such as headwordsand the use of structured annotations to displaythe regionalism information.Polysemy is indicated by the presence oftranslations with different senses, that is, where acollocation is the member of more than one sensegroup.
The example that we use is drawn from anarchtypical bilingual dictionary (Werthe-Hengsanga, 2001) of Thai-French image expres-33sions in the zoological domain with the particu-larity that the types of translation are shown bylexicographic annotations as follows:?
Eq equivalent ?
supplied, provided that anequivalent can be found?
LT literal translation ?
word for word?
AS analytical sense ?
literal translation re-formulated in correct French?
FS functional sense ?
the true sense of thetranslated collocationThe Thai is shown here by means of a phonetictranscription using ASCII characters (which infact does not provide an adequate cover but thismatter is not pursued here).
An example of apolysemic Thai collocation with 3 functionalsenses (FS) is shown in Figure 3.Thai FrenchHeadwordhmu: cochon, porcCollocationsj?
:n hmu: me:w: (TP)sense 1:donnant donnant (Eq)tendre porc<n(m,s)> tendrechat<n(m,s)> (LT)l'un tend son cochon<n(m,s)>l'autre son chat<n(m,s)> (AS)contre une chose, une prestation?quivalente ?
ce qu'on donnesoi-m?me (FS)sense 2:donnant donnant (Eq)tendre porc<n(m,s)> tendrechat<n(m,s)> (LT)l'un tend son cochon<n(m,s)>l'autre son chat<n(m,s)> (AS)prendre son d?
s?ance tenantedans une transaction (FS)sense 3:donnant donnant (Eq)tendre porc<n(m,s)> tendrechat<n(m,s)> (LT)l'un tend son cochon<n(m,s)>l'autre son chat<n(m,s)> (AS)vendre et acheter comptant (FS)Figure 3.
Polysemy illustrated by a Thai colloca-tion with 3 functional senses (FS)The linguistic phenomenon ?non reversibilityof the lexis?
is illustrated by the example shownin Figure 4.French EnglishHeadwordant?c?dents  'medical history'Collocationsant?c?dents du patient patient historyant?c?dents m?dicaux medical historyEnglish FrenchHeadwordhistory ?Collocationspatient history ant?c?dents du patientmedical history ant?c?dents m?dicauxFigure 4.
Illustration of non reversibility of thelexisIn this dictionary which is restricted to the do-main of clinical research (Gavieiro 1998), eventhough there is a translation of the French head-word ant?c?dents by an English collocation'medical history' (printed between quotes to indi-cate it to be a collocation rather than a headwordin the target language), this is not the case for theinverse sense for the English headword history.Being a dictionary of collocations, the translationof history as a headword has no place in such adomain specific dictionary.
On the contrary,English collocations containing the headwordhistory have their place, they are translated toFrench.Lexicographic requirements can be dividedinto those which concern the functionality of-fered by the dictionary (for example, as we havealready seen, the use of annotations for variouspurposes) and those which concern the organisa-tion and integrity of the dictionary.The functionality offered by such a dictionaryincludes the method of access to collocations asarticles, the presentation of the articles in orderto display any of the linguistic phenomena pre-sent (as has been illustrated by the examplesabove concerning synonymy, polysemy and non-reversibility of the lexis in translation), and theorganisation and provision of lexicographicalannotations.For the access to collocations as articles thiscan be as in conventional paper dictionaries bymeans of headwords, typically in alphabeticorder.
A headword is an individual lexical unitwhose primary purpose is to provide a means ofaccess to a collocation.
In the MultiCoDiCTsystem a headword is never the wholecollocation even for a fully fixed expression.
Agiven headword can access several collocations(as is illustrated in Figure 4) and in like manner,34a collocation can be accessed by manyheadwords.
This can be seen for the collocationant?c?dents m?dicaux with headwordsant?c?dents (Figure 4) and m?dical (Figure 5).French EnglishHeadwordm?dical medicalCollocationsant?c?dents m?dicaux medical historyFigure 5.
Variant form of headword in the con-text of the collocationThe headwords of a collocation require to bespecified; in the MultiCoDiCT system this isdone explicitly by the lexicographer.
Because ofinflexional and derivational morphology, theheadwords are typically in a canonical form,whilst the forms in the collocations can be vari-ants; Figure 5 illustrates this for the Frenchheadword 'm?dical' which takes the variant form'm?dicaux' in the French collocation.
In Figure 4,the case of the headword ant?c?dents (nominallya ?variant?
(plural) of the canonical form ant?-c?dent) is atypical, the lexicographical choice ofthe form of the headword here being due to ant?-c?dents being a short form of ant?c?dents m?di-caux.
Thus in the organisation of the dictionarythere must be, as is the case in the MultiCoDiCTsystem, a mapping between headwords in theircanonical form and their ?presence?
in colloca-tions.With annotations such as grammatical func-tion (already shown in Figure 3) even the linguis-tic phenomenon of grammatical variation can beaccounted for, as shown in Figure 6.French SpanishHeadworda?rogare terminal<n(m,s)>'estaci?n<n(f,s)> terminal<adj(f,s)>'Figure 6.
Illustration of grammatical variationIn the case of synonyms or polysemic equiva-lences, a given word can ?change?
its grammati-cal role.
In the first synonymic equivalence in theexample in Figure 6, the Spanish word terminalis a noun whilst in the second it has as grammati-cal function adjective because the word estaci?nhas as role a noun.
It should be noted that for thetwo grammatical functions of the word formterminal, in the Spanish lexis there is only oneheadword for terminal.We now turn to the phenomena which have animpact on the organisation and integrity of such adictionary and thus its underlying model andhow this has been achieved in the MultiCoDiCTsystem.
We must deal with variously colloca-tions, headwords and annotations and the variousinterrelations between these such as sense groupsand furthermore the relation between headwordsand collocations, all these in a multilingual con-text.
There must necessarily be some means toensure the integrity of these various data itemsand the relations between them.The model that underpins the MultiCoDiCTsystem is based on:?
firstly the sense group to which one ormore collocations across one or more lan-guages is associated in being senseequivalent (a sense group is no more thansuch an association),?
secondly the languages, to each of whichcollocations are uniquely associated,?
thirdly the collocations and?
fourthly the headwords, which in theMultiCoDiCT system are the only way toaccess directly a collocation and its senseequivalences (synonyms and translations).
(Acces to collocations by means of lin-guistic phenomena is discussed in the nextsection.
)In respect of annotations, the underlyingmodel allows these to be added at the level ofsense group, collocation (for example regional-ism) or collocation lexical item (for examplegrammatical category)As far as the collocations which are the mem-bers of a sense group are concerned, these can beviewed orthogonally over two dimensions.
Onedimension involves the language and here tooone or more languages may have a special status,such as Latin in dictionaries of flora and faunawhich we address in the next section of the pa-per.
The other dimension concerns the nature ofcollocations.
Here we can type collocations aseither being ?true?
collocations in terms of thelinguist's view, or, collocations which are trans-lators?
paraphrases such as for example transla-tion types as we have already discussed andshown (Figure 3).353 Linguistic phenomena and lexico-graphic attributes as a means of ac-cessCommon Spanishnamescorozo agut?PANAMA corozo ?equeBOLIVIA totai -CUBA - jut?a mochaMEXICO - cotuzaVENEZUELA corozo zuliano degrupa negraFrench translation acrocome /coyol / noixde coyolagoutiIn this section we consider linguistic phenomenaand by extension lexical attributes such as anno-tations of linguistic phenomena as themselves ameans of access to the collocations in multilin-gual collocation dictionaries.
We illustrate thisapproach by describing a bilingual dictionary oftourism that has been developed with this meansof access in mind.Figure 7.
The presence of varieties of languagesWe also found cases of linguistic phenomenaat the semantic level, such as Americanisms,Anglicisms, non-reversible equivalents, etc.
Tohandle these various observations we developedan algorithmic dictionary access method in orderto provide access to the relevant collocations andtranslations.
Our overall algorithm (see Figure 8)is itself composed of three principle sub-dictionaries:This dictionary involves the differences be-tween French-Spanish-French translations foundin ecological, fluvial and cultural (historical andreligious) tourism corpora (Mendez, 1993; Ri-gole and Langlois, 2002).
When translating thecorpora, we noticed the presence of varieties oflanguages, such as Latin American Spanish andcommon Spanish (that is the Spanish of Spain)and of regionalisms; for example, in the case ofPanama whose animal and plant specimen nameswere used only in that country and not in otherLatin American countries, see Figure 7 (Chan2005).a.
French-Spanish-French equivalences(537 words),b. particular cases at the semantic level(1146 words) andc.
particular cases at the grammatical level (291 sub-conditions).Tourism dictionary overall algorithmreligious historicalcultural tourismfluvial tourismecological tourismequivalences(French-Spanish-French)synonymycommon and rhetorical sensespolysemyparaphrasesproper nounslanguage levelcollocationsnon-reversible equivalentsAnglicismsAmericanismsparticular casesat the semantic levelgerund, past participle andverbal adjectivegender and numberdemonstrativesarticlesadverbsthe place of adjectivesparticular casesat the grammatical levelgrammatical category problemsverbal systemrelatives and indefinite pronounsFigure 8.
Dictionary access algorithm36The algorithm has a maximum of eight levelswhere the existence of other sub-dictionaries (orsub-algorithms) is possible inside of each dic-tionary, which itself can be consulted independ-ently or dependently.
In other words, the overallalgorithm includes several mini-algorithms andmini-dictionaries.At the start of each consultation, the words be-longing to a given dictionary are presented in theform of a list arranged in alphabetical order sothat the user can save time.We now discuss these three specific sub-dictionaries.The first sub-dictionary concerns equivalenceswhich are provided in the French-Spanish-French languages and which are classified ac-cording to topic.
The sub-field cultural tourismpresents for example historical and religioustourism as sub-sub-fields.The second sub-dictionary concerns particularcases at the semantic level, the terms of the dic-tionary of the Panamanian fauna, for example,are joined together by class such as: insects,mammals, birds and reptiles.
The user can checkstarting from:?
French to obtain the equivalences inSpanish of Panama and common Spanish;?
French to obtain the equivalences incommon Spanish and Latin;?
Panamanian Spanish to obtain theequivalences in common Spanish;?
common Spanish to obtain the equiva-lences in Panamanian Spanish;?
Panamanian Spanish and common Span-ish to obtain the equivalences in Frenchand Latin;?
Latin to obtain the equivalences inFrench, common Spanish and PanamanianSpanish.At the outset we had the intention to develop abilingual dictionary.
However, we included Latinin the dictionary, since, when translating theSpanish corpora to French, we noticed that thenames of the flora and fauna belonged to a spe-cialised lexicon and that most of these namesconstituted regional variations.
Thus, we had tolook for the scientific name (coming from Latin),then the common Spanish name in bibliographi-cal documents, monolingual dictionaries or onInternet sites dedicated to these fields and finally,to look for the French translation in general bi-lingual dictionaries (Spanish-French) and onzoological and botanical websites in order tovalidate the equivalences.We did not consider the variants of otherLatin-American countries because in order to doso it would have been necessary to undertake anintensive research exercise into the matter and tohave had the terms checked by specialists in thefield studied.The third and last sub-dictionary deals withgrammatical findings.
It is not only composed ofwords but grammatical rules and also examplesin order to illustrate the different cases.
For thisreason, we do not mention the quantity of wordsin the dictionary but rather the number of sub-conditions in the algorithm.The algorithm that we have developed is inter-actively interpretable by the Studygram system(Cardey and Greenfield, 1992) which also pro-vides the user interface.
To illustrate the trace ofa user access using our prototype system with thedictionary access algorithm illustrated in Figure8, we take as entry the French collocation 'ama-zone ?
front rouge' and where we are interestedin the equivalences sub-dictionary and the par-ticular cases sub-dictionary (see Figure 9).touristcontextloro m. frente roja loro m. frente rojaequivalencessub-dictionaryFigure 9.
Trace of a user access with as entry the French collocation 'amazone ?
front rouge'amazone?front rouge particularcases at thesemanticlevel sub-dictionarynonreversibleequivalentscollocationsamazone f. : amazona f. (femme)?
prep.
: a / de / en / para / por /quefront m. : frente f. (partie du visage)rouge adj.
: rojo,ja adj., encar-nado,da adj., colorado,da adj.374 ConclusionWe have presented the essential linguistic phe-nomena and the lexicographic requirements thatwe have discerned to be useful in the develop-ment of multilingual collocation dictionaries.
By?collocation?
we mean not only set or fixed ex-pressions including idioms, simple co-occurrences of items and metaphorical uses, butalso translators?
paraphrases.
The basic modelfor such dictionaries as exemplified in the Mul-tiCoDiCT system reposes on the concept of thecollocation sense group as a means to ensure in-tegrity and access.
We have presented a novelaccess method to such dictionaries using theStudygram system which in essence providesaccess also based on much of the very linguisticphenomena and related lexicographical attributesthat we have previously discerned and thus ena-bling access to collocations by posing a problem.We conclude in showing how Studygram andMultiCoDiCT can be integrated in order to pro-vide a more general approach for the access tosuch multilingual collocation dictionaries.
In thisapproach, Studygram would provide the userinterface and problem solving capability as de-scribed in section 3 and MultiCoDiCT would actas a lexical resources server.At one level this approach would involve theessentially technical matter of standardising themutual call mechanism (operational semantics)between Studygram and MultiCoDiCT.
TheStudygram system in any case supports algo-rithm solutions (called operations) which can beprocedure calls, which in this context would beto MultiCoDiCT.At another level this approach would involveformalising and standardising the linguistic andlexicographic terminology shared by the two sys-tems.
This level is thus concerned with includingthe lexicographical needs in the computationalmodel.
In respect of the semantics of the Multi-CoDiCT component, the model underpinningMultiCoDiCT could be extended in a simplefashion to support explicitly the provision of lin-guistic ?headwords?
involving the intrinsicallymodelled linguistic phenomena of synonymy andtranslation equivalences, polysemy and non-reversibility of the lexis.
Access by conventionalheadwords is in any case already supported.
Thesame MultiCoDiCT model provides annotationstructures attached to the sense group, to the col-location and to the collocation lexical item.However the semantics of the annotation contentis the lexicographer?s and thus would involve anagreed semantics between the MuliCoDiCT andStydygram components including the algorithmcontent concerning the machine interpretation ofsuch annotation contents and lexicographic at-tributes.ReferencesCardey, S., Greenfield P. 1992.
The `Studygram'Natural Language Morphology System: A FirstStep to an Intelligent Tutoring Platform for NaturalLanguage Morphology in Proceedings of the UM-IST ICALL workshop, 42-59, published by CTICentre for Modern Languages, University of Hull,UKCardey, S., Greenfield, P. 1999.
Computerised setexpression dictionaries : design and analysis, Sym-posium on Contrastive Linguistics and TranslationStudies (Universit?
Catholique de Louvain, Lou-vain-la-Neuve, Belgique) 5-6 February 1999.
InLexis in Contrast (B. Altenberg & S. Granger eds.
),Benjamins.Chan, R., 2005, El diccionario de la flora y fauna pa-name?a: propuesta de algoritmo para la soluci?n deproblemas de traducci?n de espa?ol-franc?s, IXSimposio Internacional de Comunicaci?n Social,Santiago de Cuba, 24-28 de enero 2005, Actas I,389-393.Gaveiro, E., 1998, Elaboration d'un Prototype de Dic-tionnaire Informatis?
Fran?ais-Anglais / Anglais-Fran?ais.
Application au Domaine de la RechercheClinique, M?moire de D.E.A., Universit?
de Fran-che-Comt?, France.Greenfield, P. 1998a.
L'espace de l'?tat et les inva-riants de l'?tat des dictionnaires terminologiquessp?cialis?s de collocations multilingues, Actes de la1?re Rencontre Linguistique M?diterran?enne, LeFigement Lexical, Tunis, les 17-18 et 19 September1998, 271-283.Greenfield, P. 1998b.
Invariants in multilingual ter-minological dictionaries, BULAG N?
3, ISBN 2-913322-11-5, Presses Universitaires Franc-Comtoises, 1998, 111-121.Greenfield, P. 2003.
Le r?le de l'informatique dans letraitement et l'enseignement des langues, Actes duCongr?s international : Journ?es linguistiquesfranco-asiatiques, Naresuan University, Phitsanu-lok, Tha?lande, 20-22 August 2003, 69-84.Greenfield, P., Cardey, S., Ach?che, S., Chan Ng, R.,Galliot, J., Gavieiro, E., Morgadinho, H., Petit, E.1999.
Conception de syst?mes de dictionnaires decollocations multilingues, le projet MultiCoDiCT,Actes du Colloque international VI?me Journ?esscientifiques du R?seau th?matique de l'AUF Lexi-38cologie, Terminologie, Traduction, Beyrouth, 11-13 November 1999, 103-113.Mendez, E. 1993.
Los roedores de Panam?.
Panam?,Laboratorio Conmemorativo Gorgas, pp.59-64 andpp.281-286.Moon, R. 1998.
Fixed expressions and idioms in Eng-lish, a corpus-based approach.
Clarendon Press,Oxford.
ISBN 0-19823614-X.Rigole, M., Langlois, C-V. 2002.
Panam?.
Guides devoyage ULYSSE.
4th edition.
Canada, Guides devoyage Ulysse inc., 333p.Spivey, J.M.
1992.
The Z Notation.
Prentice Hall,ISBN 0-13-978529-9.Werthe-Hengsanga, V. 2001.
Etude de la traductionautomatique en fran?ais des expressions imag?esde la langue tha?
(domaine animalier).
DEA,Sciences du langage, Universit?
de Franche-Comt?,Besan?on, France.39
