Proceedings of the Workshop on Embodied Language Processing, pages 41?50,Prague, Czech Republic, June 28, 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsCoordination in Conversation and RapportJustine Cassell, Alastair J. Gill and Paul A. TepperCenter for Technology & Social BehaviorNorthwestern University2240 Campus Drive, Evanston, IL 60208{justine, alastair, ptepper}@northwestern.eduAbstractWe investigate the role of increasingfriendship in dialogue, and propose a firststep towards a computational model of therole of long-term relationships in languageuse between humans and embodied conver-sational agents.
Data came from a study offriends and strangers, who either could orcould not see one another, and who wereasked to give directions to one-another,three subsequent times.
Analysis focusedon differences in the use of dialogue actsand non-verbal behaviors, as well as co-occurrences of dialogue acts, eye gaze andhead nods, and found a pattern of verbaland nonverbal behavior that differentiatesthe dialogue of friends from that of strang-ers, and differentiates early acquaintancesfrom those who have worked together be-fore.
Based on these results, we present amodel of deepening rapport which wouldenable an ECA to begin to model patternsof human relationships.1 IntroductionWhat characterizes the language of people whohave known one another for a long time?
In the USone thinks of groups of friends, leaning in towardsone another, laughing, telling jokes at one an-other?s expense, and interrupting one another intheir eagerness to contribute to the conversation.The details may differ from culture to culture, butthe fact of differences between groups of friendsand groups of strangers are probably universal.Which characteristics, if any, reliably differentiatesfriends and strangers?
Which can make a newfriend feel welcome?
An old friend feel appreci-ated?
Advances in natural language are ensuringthat embodied conversational agents (ECAs) areincreasingly scintillating, emotionally and sociallyexpressive, and personality-rich.
However, for themost part, those same ECAs demonstrate amnesia,beginning every conversation with a user as if it istheir first, and never getting past the stage of intro-ductory remarks.As the field of ECAs matures, and these systemsare found on an increasing number of platforms,for an increasing number of applications, we feelthat it is time to ensure that ECAs be able to en-gage in deepening relationships that make theircollaboration with humans productive and satisfy-ing over long periods of time.
To this end, in thispaper we examine the verbal and nonverbal corre-lates of friendship in an empirical study, and thentake first steps towards a model of deepeningfriendship and rapport in ECAs.
The current studyis a part of a larger research program into linguisticand social coordination devices from the utterancelevel to the relationship level ?
how they work inhumans, how they can be modeled in virtual hu-mans, and how virtual humans can be used to teachpeople who wish to learn these skills.2 Background & TheoryAs people become closer, their conversationalstyle changes.
They may raise more topics in thecourse of a conversation, refer more to themselvesas a single unit than as two people, and be moreresponsive to one another?s talk (Cassell & Tver-sky, 2005; Hornstein, 1982).
They also are likelyto sustain eye contact longer, smile more, and leanmore towards one another (Grahe & Bernieri,1999; Richmond & McCroskey, 1995).
In addition,friends appear to have fewer difficulties with lexi-cal search, perhaps because they can rely ongreater shared knowledge, and are more likely totalk at the same time, and to negotiate turn-takingin a less rigid manner, both through gaze and ges-41ture (Welji & Duncan, 2005).
Tickle-Degnen &Rosenthal (1990) propose a model of deepeningrapport over time based on the relationship amongthree components: positivity, mutual attention andcoordination.
As shown in Figure 1, as friendshipdeepens, the importance of positivity decreases,while the importance of coordination increases.Attention to the conversational partner, however, ishypothesized to remain constant.
That is, strangersare more likely to be polite and uniformly positivein their talk, but also more likely to be awkwardand badly coordinated with their interlocutors.As a relationship progresses and impressionshave been formed and accepted, disagreement be-comes acceptable and important.
This may entailan increase in face-threatening issues and behav-iors (cf.
Brown & Levinson, 1987) accompaniedby a decrease in the need to mediate these threats.At this stage in the relationship, coordination be-comes highly important, so that the conversationwill be less awkward and there is less likelihood ofmisunderstanding.
Attention to one another, how-ever, does not change.
Tickle-Degnen & Rosenthalpoint out that these features are as likely to be ex-pressed nonverbally (through smiles, nods, andposture shifts, for example) as verbally.One criticism of Tickle-Degnen & Rosenthal,and similar work, is that positive feelings for, andknowledge about, the other person are not distin-guished (Cappella, 1990).
That is, what might beperceived as lack of rapport could actually be alack of familiarity with a partner?s behavioral cuesfor indicating misunderstanding or requesting in-formation.This conflation may come from the fact that theword rapport is used both to refer to the phenome-non of instant responsiveness (?we just clicked?
)and that of deepening interdependence over time.ECA research has been divided between a focus oninstant rapport (Gratch et al, 2006; Maatman,Gratch, & Marsella, 2005) and a focus on estab-lishing and maintaining relationships over time(Bickmore & Picard, 2005; Cassell & Bickmore,2002; Stronks, Nijholt, van der Vet, & Heylen,2002).
Perhaps due to difficulties with analyzingdyadic interdependent processes, and modelingthem in computational systems, much of the workin both traditions still takes a signaling approach,whereby particular signals (such as nodding orsmall talk) demonstrate the responsiveness, extro-version, or rapport-readiness of the agent, but aredecontextualized from the actions of the dyad(Duncan, 1990).
Although this approach is wellpaired to current technological constraints, it maynot adequately account for the contingency of in-terpersonal interaction and conversation.
In addi-tion, in none of these previous studies was there afocus on how verbal and nonverbal devices actu-ally change over the course of a relationship, andhow those devices are interdependent betweenspeaker and listener.
An instant rapport approach isuseful for building systems that are initially attrac-tive to users; but a system that signals increasingfamiliarity and intimacy through its linguistic andnonverbal behaviors may encourage users to staywith the system over a longer period of time.In the current work, we concentrate how dis-course and nonverbal behavior changes over time,and across the dyad, as this perspective allows usto highlight the similarities between interpersonalcoordination and knowledge coordination of thekind that has been studied in both conversationalanalysis and psycholinguistics.Work on conversational analysis demonstratesthe importance of knowledge coordination compo-nents such as turn-taking and adjacency pairs(e.g.Goodwin, 1981; Schegloff & Sacks, 1973).Inspired by this approach, work by Clark and col-laborators on grounding and conversation as jointaction has made demonstrated coordination andcooperation as defining characteristics of conversa-tion (Clark, 1996; Clark & Brennan, 1991; Clark &Wilkes-Gibbs, 1986).
This work has in turn, re-ceived a significant amount of attention in compu-tational linguistics, specifically in the study of dia-logue (Matheson, Poesio, & Traum, 2000; Nakano,Reinstein, Stocky, & Cassell, 2003; Traum, 1994;Traum & Dillenbourg, 1998).
To develop a modelof nonverbal grounding, Nakano et al (2003) stud-Early LateTime of InteractionImportanceforRapportMutual AttentionPositivityCoordinationFigure 1.
Three component model of rapport(from Tickle-Degen & Rosenthal, 1990).42ied people giving directions with respect to a mapplaced in between them.
In that study, we observedthat when a direction-receiver looked up from themap while the direction-giver was still giving di-rections, the giver would initiate grounding behav-ior such as a repeat or a rephrase.The literature reviewed above leads us to believethat there is an integral relationship between socialand knowledge coordination.
In this paper, we at-tempt to draw conclusions about the changes insocial and linguistic coordination over the short-and long-term in a way that illuminates that poten-tial relationship, and that is also computationallyviable.
In order to do this, we replicate the task weused in our earlier grounding study (Nakano et al,2003); that is we use a direction-giving task, wherehalf the subjects can see one another, and half aredivided by a screen.
Here, however, half of thesubjects in each visibility condition are friends andhalf are strangers.
And to study the potential de-velopment of rapport across the experimental pe-riod, each pair performs three subsequent direc-tion-giving tasks.In the next section, we discuss the experimentalprocedure further.
In section 4, we introduce firststeps towards a new computational model of rap-port that incorporates conversational coordinationand grounding, based on our empirical findings.3 The Experiment3.1 MethodParticipants We collected eight task-based con-versations (N = 16): in each dyad, one participantwas accompanied by the experimenter and fol-lowed a specific route from one place in the rococouniversity building where the experiment was runto another place in the building.
S/he gave theother participant directions on how to reach thatlocation, without the use of maps or other props.The direction-receiver (Receiver) was instructed toask the direction-giver (Giver) as many questionsas needed to understand the directions.
After theconversation, the Receiver had to find the location.During recruitment the Giver was always selectedas someone familiar with the building, while theReceiver was unfamiliar.
All subjects were under-graduate students, and were motivated by surprisegifts hidden at the target location.Design.
We manipulated long-term rapport, visi-bility, and subsequent route in a 2 ?
2 ?
3 design.We operationalized long-term rapport as a binary,between-subjects variable, with conditions Friends(self-reported as friends for at least one year) andStrangers.
To study the effect of non-verbal behav-ior, we manipulated visibility as a second between-subject variable.
To do this, half of the participantscould see each other, and half were separated by adividing panel.
To study the effect of acquaintanceacross the experimental period, each dyad com-pleted the task three consecutive times, going tothree different locations.Data Coding All dyads were videotaped using asix-camera array, capturing the participants?
bodymovements from the front, side, and above, alongwith close-up views of their faces.
From eachdyad, we made time-aligned transcriptions (usingPraat).
Non-verbal behavior was coded using An-vil.
From the transcripts, the following 9 DAMSLDialogue Acts (Core & Allen, 1997) were coded:Acknowledgments, Answers, Assert, Completion,Influence, Information Request, Reassert, Repeat-Rephrase, and Signal Non Understanding.
Non-verbal behavior in giver and receiver was codedusing the following categories, based on Nakano,et al (2003):?
Look at Speaker ?
looking at the speaker?seyes, eye region or face.?
Look at Hearer ?
looking at the hearer?s eyes,eye region or face.?
Head nod [speaker or hearer] ?
Head movesup and down in a single continuous movementon a vertical axis, but eyes do not go abovethe horizontal axis.3.2 ResultsWe first provide basic statistics on the experimen-tal manipulations and then examine the role offriendship and visibility on verbal and non-verbalbehavior.Basic Statistics: Overall, we find that Friend dy-ads use a significantly greater number of turns perminute than Strangers (t(6)= 2.45, p<.05, two tail),however, there is no difference in the mean num-ber of seconds it took for dyads to complete thetask.
This lack of significance may have been dueto variance among the dyads, since the meanlength was 847 seconds for friends and 1049 for43strangers.
Given the instructional nature of thetask, this means that Friends were more likely tointervene in the direction-giving than were Strang-ers, even though ?
for most of the dyads ?
friendsappear to take less time to finish.
No differencewas found in turns per minute for Visible and Non-visible dyads; nor is there a difference in length inseconds.
For routes, there is no difference in turnsper minute, however for the length of the route inseconds there is a difference (F(2,21)=10.66;p<.006) such that the mean length of Route 1 is165 seconds; Route 2 is 395 seconds; Route 3 is387.
For this reason, all statistics below are nor-malized as a function of the length of that dyad?sdata in seconds, and graphs are plotted to showleast squares mean.Verbal and Nonverbal behavior: We examinethe relationship between friendship and visibilityof both Giver and Receiver across the three routetasks.
Each of the DAMSL dialogue act variablesand Non-verbal behavior variables was entered asthe dependent variable in building mixed methodmodels using the JMP statistical package (Version6, SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, 1989-2005);Speaker (direction-giver or receiver), Visibility,Friendship and Route were entered as predictorvariables; experimental dialogue number was alsoentered as a source of random variance.
We reportthe results in Tables 1 and 2 (for DAMSL andNon-verbal behavior variables respectively).Verbal Behavior: In terms of overall variance ex-plained, we find that Acknowledgments is bestaccounted for by the model (Adjusted R Square of0.91), whilst Completion is least well accountedfor (Adjusted R2 of 0.06).Turning first to main effects, for Visibility,Visible-Givers use Acknowledgements, Assert,Influence, and Reassert dialogue acts more fre-quently than Non-visible Givers (post-hoc t tests atp <.05)Visible-Receivers use Acknowledgement, Re-peat-rephrase, Signal Non Understanding thesefeatures more frequently than Non-visible Receiv-ers.
(post-hoc t tests at p <.05)For Friendship, no differences were found forproduction of DAMSL acts by givers.
For receiv-ers, receiver-strangers use more acknowledge-ments than receiver friends.051015202530Nonvisible VisibleLeastSqMeansforNormAcknowledgmentFriends StrangersFigure 2: Giver Acknowledgment by condition0246810121416Nonvisible VisibleLeastSqMeansforNormAcknowledgementFriends StrangersFigure 3: Receiver Acknowledgment by conditionThese main effects are mediated by an interac-tion between Visibility?Friendship for Acknowl-edgements.
Here, as shown in Figure 2 and 3 wesee that in the nonvisibility condition, there is nodifference in the use of acknowledgements persecond between friends and strangers; on the otherhand, strangers use more acknowledgements in thevisible condition (p<.05).
A very similar interac-tion was found for Signal Non Understanding (atthe trend level of p<.08).Route is only a main effect predictor of SignalNon Understanding as used by receivers, who pro-duce it significantly more frequently during thethird route task than the first.
Since signaling one?slack of understanding is potentially face-DV  Source DF DF Total F RatioACK  V*F 1 20 10.64**COMP  V*F 1 4 9.78*V*F 1 20 3.31?
SNURte 2 20 3.38*Note: ?p<0.08; *p < 0.05; **p < 0.01;Table 1: Verbal behaviorAbbreviation: ACK=Acknowledgment; COMP=Completion;SNU=Signal Non Understanding; Sources abbreviated as: F= Friendship; V = Visibility; Rte = Route44threatening, this result may indicate that bothfriends and strangers become more comfortablewith one another by the third route.Nonverbal Behavior: Variance explained by thenon-verbal models is the greatest for Look AtSpeaker (Adjusted R2 0.83) and least for SpeakerNod (0.38).
With respect to the main effects result-ing from the analysis of the non-verbal behaviors,we find the following.Visibility: Givers nod more in the visible condi-tion when the receiver is speaking than they do inthe Non-visible condition.Route: For both givers and receivers, there is anincrease in use of Look At Speaker and Look AtHearer, over time; in both cases significantlygreater instances of these variables occurred duringRoute task 2 and 3, compared to Route 1.
Onceagain, these results may indicate increasing coor-dination in conversational behavior for bothFriends and Strangers.In fact, in the case of head nods, we note an in-teresting pattern of coordination between speakerand hearer head-nods across the routes that differsfor friends and strangers.
For friends, both Re-ceiver and Giver head nods in response to Receivertalk reduce in frequency between the first and sec-ond routes (Giver t(8)=-2.36; p<0.05; Receivert(8)=-2.28; p<0.05).
For strangers, no such ac-commodation over time occurs.
Conversely, forfriends when the Giver is speaking, both giver andreceiver head nods increase over the three routes(significant only for Receiver t(8)=2.38; p<0.05).For strangers, however, head nods decrease (Givert(8)=-2.80; p<0.05, Receiver t(8)=3.92; p<0.01).This means that speaker and hearer are increas-ingly coordinated across the routes, particularlywhen they are friends.Interaction of verbal and nonverbal behaviorSo far we have concentrated on how individualverbal and nonverbal behaviors differ across con-ditions.
However, this does not take account of theinteractive nature of the task and the focus of thispaper.
We therefore examine how specific respon-sive nonverbal behaviors (looking atspeaker/hearer and head nods) co-occur before,during, or after the DAMSL variables.
Examina-tion of the residuals of chi square analysis wasused to identify co-occurrence of DAMSL dia-logue acts with nonverbal behavior for eachSpeaker (Giver or Receiver) and condition(Friend/Stranger, Visible /Nonvisible).
Significantover-use or underuse of these verbal/nonverbal co-occurrences was then compared using the log-likelihood statistic (Rayson, 2003) to dialogues inthe other conditions (e.g., Giver-Friend-Visiblewith Giver-Friend-Nonvisible, and Giver-Stranger-Visible for Head-nods, and just Friends withStrangers for the Gaze data).
This technique, whichwe used in our earlier grounding experiment(Nakano et al, 2003) allows us insight into theprobable causality of the behaviors of speaker andhearer, across verbal and nonverbal behavior.When direction-givers are speakingHead-nods.
Givers did not nod significantly moreor less frequently across Friends/Strangers condi-tions when they were speaking.Gaze.
More than in friendship dialogues, whenstrangers are speaking, and the direction-giver isacknowledging, the direction-receiver is likely tolook at the Giver (G2=17.14; p<0.0001).More than in friendship dialogues, in Strangerdialogues, both before and after the direction-giverasserts something, the Receiver is likely to look atthe Giver (G2=5.09; p<0.05, and G2=4.16, p<0.05,respectively).More than in friendship dialogues, both beforeand during the Giver?s use of Repeat-Rephraseutterances, the Receiver is likely to look at theGiver (G2=35.02; p<0.0001, and G2=60.74;p<0.0001, respectively).More than in friendship dialogues, both beforeand during the Giver?s use of Info-Request dia-logue acts, the Receiver is likely to look at theGiver (G2=39.01; p<0.0001, and G2=9.60; p<0.01,respectively).This means that right after a direction receiverlooks at the direction-giver, the giver produces anAssertion, a Repeat-Rephrase, or an InformationDV  Source DF DF Total F RatioLook AtSpeakerRte 2 10 18.03***HearerNodSPKR*F*Rte 2 20 5.14*SpeakerNodSPKR*F*Rte 2 20 4.21**p<0.05;**p<0.01; ***p<0.001Table 2.
Non Verbal Behaviors.Sources abbreviated as: SPKR = Speaker; F = Friend-ship; V = Visibility; Rte = Route,45Request.
As with Nakano et al, the stranger?s gazetowards the direction-giver can be seen as a signalof non-understanding and, in these contexts, itevokes one of these three grounding responsesfrom the direction-giver.For friends, on the other hand, gaze towards thespeaker evokes the next segment of the directions,and is therefore functioning as a signal of under-standing.
That is, more than in stranger dialogues,both before and during the Giver?s use of Influencedialogue acts (utterances such as ?turn right?
), Re-ceivers are more to look at the Giver (G2=4.77;p<0.05, and G2=31.92; p<0.0001, respectively).When direction-receivers are speakingHead-nods.
As shown in Figure 4, Strangers usedmore head nods than Friends during their use ofAcknowledgment dialogue acts in the visible con-dition (G2 = 10.48, p<.01), however they do notdiffer from friends in the nonvisible condition (G2= 0.01, ns).89.527041.4671.430102030405060708090100Visible NonvisibleRelativeFrequencyof Receiver NodsDuringTheirUseof AcknowledgmentStrangers FriendsFigure 4: Receiver nods during Acknowledgment02.523.080051015202530Visible NonvisibleRelativeFrequencyof ReceiverNodsDuringTheiruseof Info-RequestStrangers FriendsFigure 5: Receiver nods during Info RequestConversely, as shown in Figure 5, when receiv-ers are making an Info-Request in the visible con-dition (G2 =14.13, p<.001), Friends nod much moreoften than Strangers; but do not differ from Strang-ers in the nonvisible condition (G2 = 1.44, ns).Once again, here the friends are marking their un-derstanding, by nodding, even while they requestfurther information.Gaze.
Before the Receiver?s use of Acknowl-edgment dialogue acts in Stranger dialogues, theGiver is more likely to look at the Receiver(G2=10.79; p<0.01).
After the Receiver has used anAcknowledgment in a Stranger dialogue, s/he ismore likely to look at the Giver a (G2=14.79;p<0.001).
This means that among strangers thegiver and receiver are likely to engage in mutualgaze around the acknowledgement dialogue act.During and after a Repeat-Rephrase dialogue actin Friends dialogues, the Receiver is more likely tolook at the Giver (G2=10.37; p<0.01 and G2=6.72;p<0.01, respectively).
Before the Receiver uses aRepeat-Rephrase dialogue act in a Friends dia-logues, the Giver is more likely to look at the Re-ceiver (G2=9.08; p<0.01).
This means that amongfriends, giver and receiver engage in mutual gazearound the repeat and rephrase dialogue act.3.3 DiscussionOur analysis of verbal and non-verbal behaviorsreveals consistent differences across the short term,comparing subsequent direction-giving tasks, andacross the long term, comparing strangers tofriends.Strangers ?
Knowledge coordinationWith respect to the co-ordination of verbal andnonverbal behavior, it is apparent that, amongstrangers, the Receiver?s use of Acknowledgmentsis strongly associated with characteristic gaze pat-terns of signaling non-understanding.
In theseStranger dyads, the Giver looks at the Receiver tosignal the need for feedback.
The Receiver thennods to emphasize comprehension while utteringthe Acknowledgment (e.g., ?okay?
), and then looksback at the Giver.
This pattern is very specific toStrangers, and in the case of the Receiver?s use ofhead nod, specific to the visible condition.
Simi-larly, among strangers, when the Giver acknowl-edges the receiver?s correct understanding, the Re-ceiver looks at the Giver.
This pattern of gaze re-quest, and grounding response, happens repeatedlyand often (Acknowledgements being used morefrequently by strangers), ensuring coordinationamong strangers, but at the cost of frequent explicitrequests.
Of course, since Acknowledgements aregenerally backchannel utterances, used to indicate46mutual understanding, one explanation for thehigher frequency of acknowledgements, head nodsand eye gaze by strangers, especially in the earliertasks, is over-generation aimed at showing atten-tion.
Although over-generation could achieve thesegoals, it can also result in creating a false impres-sion of mutual understanding and it is notable thatthese behaviors decrease over time.We also find that in the Strangers condition, Re-ceivers are more likely to look at the Giver beforeand during the Giver?s use of Repeat-Rephrase(i.e., repeating back to the Receiver some earlierinformation), and also before and during theGiver?s use of Info-Request acts (that is the Giverasking the Receiver a question such as ?do you getthat??
).From the frequent and repeated use of Acknowl-edgments and gaze (implying something like?okay?
are you sure you?re okay?
really??
), tothe Receiver?s gaze-anticipation of the Giver?s Re-peat-Rephrase and Info-Request, we infer a muchmore effortful interaction for Strangers, and onethat, in fact, for most dyads, takes longer.In line with Welji and Duncan (2005), we foundevidence that the task may demand additional cog-nitive resources for Strangers, with the Receiver inthe Strangers dialogues breaking gaze at the Giverto apparently consult some internal representationof the space just described by the Givers Assert(e.g., ?you?ll find some blue couches?
), before re-turning attention, and gaze, once again to theGiver.We also note a greater use overall of Acknowl-edgment and Completions by Strangers and invisible situations; Receivers in the visible situa-tions also use more Signal Non Understanding.Taken together, these findings indicate that coordi-nation and achieving mutual understanding is moreeffortful for Strangers: Friends use fewer dialogueacts such as Acknowledgment, Completion, andSignal Non Understanding, indicating that there isless need to negotiate understanding, and that theyare more likely to have some kind of shared repre-sentation.
Because of this, the Friends dialoguesand task performance would appear to be moreefficient, with less grounding required and less mu-tual gaze around their use of Acknowledgments,Info-Requests and Repeat-Rephrase.The fact that Friends are better able to calibratethe task than Strangers is also demonstrated by theresults found for Route.
Both Friend and Strangerdyads increase their gaze towards one another fromRoute 1 to Route 2.
But Friends shift the way theyuse head nods over the course of the three routes.They begin in Route 1 by producing them in con-junction with Receiver talk (acknowledgment, re-quest for further information, repeating directionsback).
However, by Route 2, the friends are nod-ding when the direction-giver speaks, marking thatthey don?t need further information but have un-derstood on the first try.
On the contrary, Strangerscontinue to nod just as much with receiver talk,and decrease their nods with giver talk; perhapssince by Route 2, it is clear that Strangers don?tunderstand on the first try.Tickle-Degnen and Rosenthal (1990) predictgreater coordination as a relationship progresses.We found better coordination, but that was re-vealed, paradoxically, through fewer coordinationdevices and fewer dialogue acts in each turn, bothcomparing from Route 1 to Route 3, and compar-ing Strangers to Friends.Friends ?
PositivityIn the Friends dialogues, we find a notable col-location of non-verbal behavior and the Receiver?suse of Repeat-Rephrase utterance (i.e., repeatingthe Giver?s utterance back to ensure correct inter-pretation).
This is in contrast to the findings forStranger dyads which found nonverbal behaviorsfound in conjunction with the Giver?s reactive useof Repeat-Rephrase ?
i.e., the Giver?s questioningof the Receiver?s understanding ?
perhaps after abreakdown in mutual understanding.
In the Frienddyads, it is the Receiver who proactively checkscorrect understanding of the Giver?s utterance be-fore the interaction continues.Tickle-Degnen & Rosenthal predict a reductionin the importance of positivity as rapport increasesover time in a relationship.
We found some evi-dence to support this, since such questioning of theGiver in itself may be viewed as face-threateningbehavior.
However, in the Friends dialogues, thisRepeat-Rephrase appears anticipated ?
or sanc-tioned ?
by the Giver who looks at the Receiverprior to the utterance.
Further, during and after theReceivers?
use of the Repeat-Rephrase utterance,they also look at the Giver, which again would beexpected to be viewed as a threat to face.Similarly, the Receiver gazes at the Giver beforeand during the Giver?s use of Influence dialogueacts (explicit commands, such as ?turn left?).
Such47direct gaze, along with a reduced number of medi-ating dialogue acts such as Acknowledgments, ap-pears to indicate that Friends dialogues are lessconcerned with avoiding face-threatening behav-ior, and as such would appear less concerned withmaintaining positivity during the interaction.Note that, almost paradoxically, Friends demon-strate their increased ability to coordinate their in-teraction through a diminished use of explicit co-ordination devices.
This speeds up the interaction,and reduces the number of overall dialogue acts.And, finally, differences between Friends andStrangers are vastly diminished when the interlocu-tors cannot see one another.
This leads us to be-lieve that nonverbal behaviors in addition to gazeand head nods may be playing a role in howFriends coordinate with one another; an advantagewhich is taken away when they can only hear oneanother?s voices.4 Towards a Computational ModelIn the short-term context of conversation, mainte-nance of mutual attention and incremental coordi-nation of beliefs are requisites for grounding andturn-taking.
In prior computational systems,grounding has been achieved by marking the statusof conversational contributions as provisional (un-grounded) or shared (grounded).
Conversationalactions by either the user or the system can triggerupdates that change provisional information toshared.
Acknowledgements, for example, are ex-plicit ways of achieving grounding, but moving onto the next stage of the task is equally effective, asit presupposes that prior utterances have beentaken up (Traum, 1994).
In a model such as this,grounding occurs at the turn level.
In order to han-dle the multimodal phenomena that participate ingrounding in face-to-face conversation, as Nakanoet al (Nakano et al, 2003) have shown, a model ofknowledge coordination needs to have more fre-quently updated access to potential groundingevents.
In that implementation, we continuouslypolled for inputs, so as to capture the updates ingrounding that occur between typical linguisticsegments.
We believe that the focus on time andprocess that allowed us to look at events of asmaller granularity in our earlier work on nonver-bal grounding behavior will also allow us to extendup to events of a larger granularity, such as stagesin a relationship.
That is, we believe that the resultsdescribed in earlier sections of this paper can betaken into account in a computational system bymaintaining a model of the state of shared and pri-vate information across several interactions (sev-eral years, if possible).
In this way, the shared his-tory of two interlocutors (the user and the system)can be translated into patterns of linguistic behav-ior, such as reduced use of acknowledgements, andreduced positivity, with increased interruption andinformation requests.
This is similar to Cheng,Cavedon & Dale (2004)?s approach to direction-giving.
In this approach, the system maintains ahistory of places it has given directions to before.Using this task history, it is able to generate shorterdirections at later stages in the dialogue.
In our im-plementation, however, the very style of the inter-action is modified by the shared history of the userand the system.
In the sense that we are modifyingthe linguistic style of the dialogue based on psy-chological attributes, our approach is similar towork by Mairesse & Walker (2007) and Isard et al(2006).
In both cases, a broad set of natural lan-guage generation parameters is employed to gener-ate language that differs along a personality di-mension, based on a number of previous empiricalstudies.
In the current approach, however, the fea-tures that are modified derive from the interde-Figure 6.
Proposed architecture for modeling coordination within and across conversation48pendence of the system with a particular user.Some of the features that are present in the con-versations of friends, such as interjections andcompletion of one another?s utterances, are stillbeyond current computational abilities, as theywould require online, real-time processing and un-derstanding of utterances with incremental plan-ning and generation of responses.
We are inter-ested in pursuing this feature of the system as dia-logue technologies improve.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have compared direction-giving between friends and strangers, and withinthese two groups we have compared three subse-quent direction-giving episodes.
In order to deter-mine the effect played specifically by nonverbalbehavior in short- and long-term rapport, half ofour participants could see one another, while theother half were divided by a screen.
Our experi-mental and analytic methodology drew from boththe social psychological, conversational analysis,and conversation as joint action traditions.
Conse-quently, our results were able to demonstrate theways in which the verbal and nonverbal devicesthat index rapport relate to the role those same de-vices play in knowledge coordination.
Based onthis commonality, we proposed a computationallyviable model of deepening friendship within andacross subsequent tasks that extends our previouswork on grounding in face-to-face interaction.
Thework we have presented here therefore differs sub-stantially from previous work on rapport and rela-tionship building in embodied conversationalagents.
We did not start out with a definition ofrapport but instead investigated those behaviorsthat characterize dyads who have self-identified asfriends or strangers.
And rather than looking atrapid assessment of rapport (the feeling of ?click-ing?)
we looked at the long-term version: acquiringa sense of mutual interdependence.
Finally, ratherthan looking at how to get ECAs to engage usersinto establishing a relationship, or into lettingdown their guard, we examined those behaviorsthat characterize the dyadic interaction at eachstage.All of these topics, however, are clearly inter-related, and future research will benefit from tak-ing a greater number of them into account in bothdata analysis, and the implementation of ECAs.Future research in our own lab will also have to bemore explicit about how to implement the compu-tational model that we have started to lay out here.Additional subjects in a similar experiment will nodoubt facilitate that task.As we increasingly understand better how con-versation changes when people come to know oneanother, we expect to apply these results to ourongoing research on virtual peers that can teachchildren with autism how to sustain interpersonalrelationships (Tartaro & Cassell, 2006) and to ourwork on building the survey interviewers of thefuture, who can both engage their survey-takersand keep them honest (Cassell & Miller, in press).More generally, however, we hope to increasinglyimplement ECAs who will stick around for thelong haul.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Kristina Striegnitz , Will Thompson, TaraLatta and Nate Cantelmo for their help, and DarrenGergle for his superior statistical knowledge.
We aregrateful to Motorola for funding that supported some ofthe research reported here.ReferencesBickmore, T., & Picard, R. (2005).
Establishing andMaintaining Long-Term Human-ComputerRelationships.
ACM Transactions on ComputerHuman Interaction (ToCHI), 12(2), 293-327.Brown, P., & Levinson, S. (1987).
Politeness: SomeUniversals in Language Usage.
Studies inInternational Sociolinguistics.
New York:Cambridge University Press.Cappella, J. N. (1990).
On Defining ConversationalCoordination and Rapport.
Psychological Inquiry,1(4), 303-305.Cassell, J., & Bickmore, T. (2002).
NegotiatedCollusion: Modeling Social Language and itsRelationship Effects in Intelligent Agents.
UserModeling and Adaptive Interfaces, 12, 1-44.Cassell, J., & Miller, P. (in press).
Is it Self-Administration if the Computer Gives youEncouraging Looks?
In F. G. Conrad & M. F.Schober (Eds.
), Envisioning the Survey Interview ofthe Future.
New York: John Wiley & Sons.Cassell, J., & Tversky, D. (2005).
The Language ofOnline Intercultural Community Formation.
Journalof Computer-Mediated Communication, 10(2),article 2.Cheng, H., Cavedon, L., & Dale, R. (2004, 28th-29thAugust).
Generating Navigation Information Based49on the Driver's Route Knowledge.
Paper presentedat the COLING 2004 Workshop on Robust andAdaptive Information Processing for Mobile SpeechInterfaces.
Geneva,Switzerland.Clark, H. H. (1996).
Using Language.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Clark, H. H., & Brennan, S. E. (1991).
Grounding incommunication.
In L. B. Resnick, J. M. Levine & S.D.
Teasley (Eds.
), Perspectives on socially sharedcognition (pp.
127-149).
Washington DC: AmericanPsychological Association.Clark, H. H., & Wilkes-Gibbs, D. (1986).
Referring as acollaborative process.
Cognition, 22, 1-39.Core, M., & Allen, J.
(1997).
Coding Dialogue with theDAMSL Annotation Scheme.
Proceedings of theAAAI Fall Symposium on Communicative Action inHumans and Machines.
Boston, MA.Duncan, S., Jr. (1990).
Measuring Rapport.Psychological Inquiry, 1(4), 310-312.Goodwin, C. (1981).
Conversational Organization:Interaction between speakers and hearers.
NewYork: Academic Press.Grahe, J. E., & Bernieri, F. J.
(1999, Win).
Theimportance of nonverbal cues in judging rapport.Journal of Nonverbal Behavior, 23(4), 253-269.http://www.springeronline.comGratch, J., Okhmatovskaia, A., Lamothe, F., Marsella,S., Morales, M., van der Werf, R. J., et al (2006).Virtual Rapport.
Proceedings of the 5thInternational Conference on Interactive VirtualAgents (IVA).
Marina del Rey, CA.Hornstein, G. A.
(1982).
Variations in conversationalstyle as a function of the degree of intimacy betweenmembers of a dyad.
Unpublished Doctoral, ClarkUniversity.Isard, A., Brockmann, C., & Oberlander, J.
(2006).Individuality and alignment in generated dialogues.Proceedings of the 4th International NaturalLanguage Generation Conference (pp.
22-29).Sydney, Australia.Maatman, M., Gratch, J., & Marsella, S. (2005).
NaturalBehavior of a Listening Agent.
Paper presented atthe 5th International Conference on InteractiveVirtual Agents (IVA).
Kos, Greece.Mairesse, F., & Walker, M. (2007).
PERSONAGE:Personality generation for dialogue.
Proceedings ofthe 45th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL).
Prague.Matheson, C., Poesio, M., & Traum, D. (2000).Modelling Grounding and Discourse ObligationsUsing Update Rules.
Proceedings of the 1st AnnualMeeting of the North American Association forComputational Linguistics (NAACL2000).
Seattle,WA.Nakano, Y. I., Reinstein, G., Stocky, T., & Cassell, J.
(2003, July 7-12).
Towards a Model of Face-to-FaceGrounding.
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics (p.553?561).
Sapporo, Japan: Association forComputational LinguisticsRayson, P. (2003).
Matrix: A statistical method andsoftware tool for linguistic analysis through corpuscomparison.
Unpublished doctoral thesis, LancasterUniversity, Lancaster.Richmond, V. P., & McCroskey, J. C. (1995).Immediacy.
In Nonverbal Behavior in InterpersonalRelations (pp.
195-217).
Boston: Allyn & Bacon.Schegloff, E. A., & Sacks, H. (1973).
Opening upclosings.
Semiotica, 8, 289-327.Stronks, B., Nijholt, A., van der Vet, P., & Heylen, D.(2002).
Designing for friendship: Becoming friendswith your ECA.
Proceedings of the Embodiedconversational agents - let's specify and evaluatethem!
(pp.
91-97).
Bologna, Italy: ACM Press.Tartaro, A., & Cassell, J.
(2006, August 28 - September1).
Authorable virtual peers for autism spectrumdisorders.
Proceedings of the Combined workshopon Language-Enabled Educational Technology andDevelopment and Evaluation for Robust SpokenDialogue Systems at the 17th European Conferenceon Artificial Intellegence.
Riva Del Garda, Italy.Tickle-Degnen, L., & Rosenthal, R. (1990).
The natureof rapport and its nonverbal correlates.Psychological Inquiry, 1(4), 285-293.Traum, D. R. (1994).
A Computational Theory ofGrounding in Natural Language Conversation.University of Rochester, Rochester, NY.Traum, D. R., & Dillenbourg, P. (1998).
Towards aNormative Model of Grounding in Collaboration.Proceedings of the ESSLLI-98 workshop on MutualKnowledge, Common Ground and PublicInformation.
Saarbrucken, Germany.Welji, H., & Duncan, S. (2005).
Collaboration andNarration: The role of shared knowledge in thespeech and gesture production of friends andstrangers.
Paper presented at the InternationalSociety of Gesture Studies Conference.
Lyon, France.50
