Proceedings of the Linguistic Annotation Workshop, pages 156?163,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsPoCoS ?
Potsdam Coreference Scheme1Olga KrasavinaMoscow State Universitykrasavina@gmx.netChristian ChiarcosUniversity of Potsdamchiarcos@ling.uni-potsdam.deAbstract1This document outlines minimal designprinciples underlying annotation ofcoreference relations in PoCoS, a schemefor cross-linguistic anaphoric annotation.We identify language-independent princi-ples for markable identification which areessential for comparability of annotationsproduced for different languages.
We fur-ther suggest a clear and motivated structureof annotation stages, the separation of acoarse-grained core and a family of moreelaborate extended schemes, and strategiesfor the systematic treatment of ambiguity.Explicit mark-up of ambiguities is a novelfeature.
We implemented three instantia-tions of PoCoS for German, English andRussian applied to corpora of newspapertexts.1 IntroductionAnaphoric annotation is notoriously problematicbecause of ambiguity and subjectivity issues.
Onehas to deal with them at two stages: 1) by design-ing annotation guidelines; 2) by performing anno-tation.
As for 1), it is a well-known problem thatdifferent schemes propose different annotation de-cisions.
As for 2), different annotators may havedifferent judgments on coreference-related issues.The current paper focuses on the general principlesand strategies of annotating coreference ?
the theo-retical core that should logically precede any anno-tation decisions or schemes, but has not been for-mulated explicitly by now.The number of existing schemes released just inthe last few years is overwhelming and is out of the1 The research by Olga Krasavina was supported by RussianFoundation for the Humanities, grant 05-04-04240?.scope here.
The MUC is still generally accepted asthe most standard-like annotation scheme(Hirschman, 1997).
Given its simplicity is its mostimportant advantage, it has been criticized for itslimited coverage and its contra-intuitive under-standing of coreference.
One of the most well-known later approaches is MATE/GNOME (Poe-sio, 2004).
As the author fairly notices, ?there canbe no such thing as a general-purpose anaphoricannotation instructions?, due to the complexity ofphenomena associated with the term of anaphora.So, its essential idea is combining a ?general-purporse markup scheme?
(MATE) with applica-tion-specific scheme instantiations (GNOME).
InPoCoS, we adapted and elaborated this idea, bysuggesting the Core and Extended Schemes.The PoCoS, the Potsdam Coreference Scheme,both adapts selected features of existing schemesand implements a set of innovative features.
Wedistinguish between the Core and ExtendedScheme: the Core Scheme is general and reusable,while the Extended Scheme supports a wider rangeof specific extensions, see fig.
1.
Here, we are talk-ing about English and German instantiations of thePoCoS Core Scheme.2 Coreference annotationCoreference is a relation between textual elements,?referring expressions?, which denote the sameentity.
Semantically, these expressions are proto-typical objects or ?
(discourse) referents?
(Kart-tunen, 1976).
Given a pair of two coreferring ex-pressions, the preceding expression is termed ante-cedent, the subsequent one is termed anaphor.Subject to annotation are ?markables?
defined asa cover-term for potential anaphors and their ante-cedents.
Coreference annotation consists of as-signment of relations pointing from an anaphor toan antecedent markable.
Whether two markablesare co-referent, i.e.
referring to the same discoursereferent, can be determined by a substitution test.
If156the substitution of anaphor and antecedent yieldthe same interpretation of the text, these aredeemed coreferential.Syntactically, a markable is typically a phrasewith a nominal or a pronominal head.
According tothe referential properties a syntactic constructiontypically has, we distinguish between primarymarkables, i.e.
potential anaphors, and secondarymarkables, expressions which can not serve asanaphors, but only as antecedents.3 Annotation principles3.1 A principled approachIn order to develop an annotation scheme whichis maximally consistent, we initially identified aset of axiomatic requirements:?
CONSTITUENCYo a primary or secondary markable must be anindependent syntactic constituent?
COMPLETENESSo neither sub-tokens nor non-phrasal nomi-nals are subject to annotation, only syntac-tic words (tokens) and phrases are?
CONSISTENCYo corresponding features have to be analyzedin a corresponding wayCONSTITUENCY and COMPLETENESS are necessarypre-conditions for an alignment between syntacticand anaphoric annotation, CONSISTENCY impliesthat annotation principles must be formulated in away that allows for inter-subjective and cross-linguistically valid annotation decisions.
WhileCONSTITUENCY and COMPLETENESS define con-straints for markable identification, consistencyalso affects selection preferences among potentialantecedents, and it motivates the explicit represen-tation of anaphoric ambiguity in PoCoS.In addition to these requirements, we add thepreference for MAXIMAL ANALYSIS.
It suggestslonger anaphoric chains are preferred to the shorterones by annotation.
This defines preferences forcoding decisions by ambiguity (see 4.1).In the remainder of this section, annotation prin-ciples employed in the PoCoS scheme are shortlypresented and discussed as to their relationship tothese four requirements.3.2 Markable identificationCross-linguistically consistent markable identifica-tion strategies are a necessary pre-condition for acomparative evaluation of anaphor annotation andanaphor resolution across different languages.
Ithas been controversial, however, how to set mark-able boundaries.
So, for example, Ge et al (1998)and, MUC (Hirschman, 1997) propose a minimalstring constraint motivated by evaluation consid-erations.
This procedure leads to systematic viola-tions of the CONSTITUENCY and COMPLETENESSprinciples, though, cf.
the potential markablesDenver and bankruptcy in ex.
(1)(1) The [Denver]?-based con-cern, which emerged from ban-cruptcy ... its new, post-[bancruptcy]?
law structure..." (WSJ, 1328)We explicitly propose a maximum size principle asan alternative to the minimum string constraint(see Principle 1 below).
So, a markable consists ofthe head, usually a noun or a pronoun, and of allmodifiers, attributes, relative clauses, appositions,and dislocated elements attached to the head.Principle 1 Maximum sizeOne markable includes all modifications of itshead.Prepositions can be regarded as modifications of anoun as well, and following this line ofargumentation, the seemingly clear-cutdifferentiation between NPs and PPs becomesquestionable, cf.
the unclear status of Japanesepostpositions that can also be interpreted asmorphological case markers (Giv?n 2001:115f).Further, in most European languages, functionalelements such as prepositions and determiners tendto be fused.
In combination with theCOMPLETENESS constraint, a possible NP-preference for the selection of markables willresult in the selection of either PPs or non-phrasalmarkables if preposition-determiner fusion occurs.In order to achieve a more consistent analysis, inwhich the syntactic status of a markable does notdepend on surface phenomena such as the(optional) fusion of prepositions and determiner,function words are integrated into a markable ifthey modify it.
As a consequence, CONSISTENCY157considerations call for the choice of PPs rather thanNPs as markables where possible.Principle 2 Syntactic characterizationIf a referring expression is modified by func-tion words, e.g.
a determiner or an adposition,these are to be integrated into the markable.Like Principle 1, Principle 2 originates from CON-SISTENCY and COMPLETENESS requirements ap-plied both within one language and consideringcross-linguistic validity, as the function of inflec-tional marking in one language and the function ofprepositions in another language are exchangeable.If a markable includes another markable, bothare specified as markables in annotation.
Suchtreatment provides consistency across languages,(cf.
the fragment of parallel text in ex.
2), and hasan additional advantage of representing the syntac-tic structure of a markable.
(2)[Dieses Recht]right kann nicht in Anspruch genommen werden [imFalle einer Strafverfolgung auf Grund von Handlungen, die [gegendie Ziele [der Vereinten Nationen]UN]purp versto?en]prosec.
[This right]right may not be invoked [in the case of prosecutionsarising from acts contrary [to the purposes [of the United Na-tions]UN]purp]prosec.[???
?????
]right ??
?????
????
????????????
[?
??????
?????????????,???????????
??
??????????
?????
?, ???????????????
[?????[???????????
????????????
?????]UN]purp]prosec.
(www.unhchr.ch/udhr,shortened)3.3 Antecedent selectionFor interconnecting co-referring expressions threebasic strategies can be employed: (i) leave this de-cision to an annotator, (ii) connect all mentions tothe first one, or (iii) connect each following men-tion to the immediately preceding one.
In line withprevious research and in order to enhance consis-tency, we opted for (iii), as Principle 3 states:Principle 3 Chain principleMark the most recent mention of a referent asantecedent, so that all mentions of the same ref-erent make up an ordered chain.Possessive pronouns can often be used at the be-ginning of a sentence, in case they are resolved inthe same sentence as in (3) and (4).
The chainprinciple suggests selecting a pronoun as the chain-initial element which is contra-intuitive in thiscase: a pronoun introduces no lexical materialwhich serves for subsequent re-identification of areferent.
In order to respect the inter-subjectiveintuition to identify the controller of the possessiveas a markable, we posit an exception to the chainprinciple for the case of pronominal cataphora.According to the CONSISTENCY requirement (see3.1), any bound pronoun, no matter if its is chain-initial or not, has to be treated this way.Principle 4 Cataphora at sentence levelIf a pronoun which is typically used as a boundpronoun is bound by an intrasentential controller,annotate a pointing relation to the controller ratherthan to a candidate antecedent in previous dis-course.In the Core Scheme for German, English andRussian, Principle 4 applies to possessive pronounsonly.
(3) Through [his]a lawyers,[Mr. Antar]a has denied alle-gations in the SEC suit?
(WSJ, 3)(4) [Die einstige Fu?ball-Weltmacht]d zittert [vor einemWinzling]s. Mit [seinem]s Torzum 1:0 [f?r die Ukraine]ust?rzte [der 1,62 Meter gro?eGennadi Subow]s [die deutscheNationalelf]d vor?bergehend inein Trauma?
(PCC, 10374)?
[The former football World Power]d is shiver-ing [in the face of a mite]s. By [his]s goal thatset the score to 1:0 [for Ukraine]u pitched[Gennadi Subow]s, 1.62 Meter tall, [the GermanNational Eleven]d in a shock for a while?
?1583.4 Identifying pointing relationsA special case for annotation is pronominal ornominal reference by plural or NPs or both to mul-tiple concrete antecedents mentioned at differentpoints in a text.
Thus, they cannot be regarded assingle constituent.
Since a referent of a plural NP isnot the same as the sum of its parts, we deal withmultiple antecedents by introducing a separate an-notation layer called groups.
Group referents arelinked to their anaphors by regular anaphoric rela-tions, see (5).
(5) [Montedison]m now ownsabout 72% of [Erbamont?s]eshares outstanding.
[The com-panies]m+e said ?
a sale of allof [Erbamont?s]e assets ...[to Montedison]m ?
[The compa-nies]m+e said ?
(WSJ, 660)Special treatment of groups is important as theyintroduce an exception to the Chain Principle.Formally, the same group of people can be referredto at different points of time.
However, followingthe preference for MAXIMAL ANALYSIS (see 3.1),longer anaphoric chains are preferred, and thus,once a pre-established group reference exists, it ismarked as an antecedent instead of establishing anew group referent.
Accordingly, in ex.
(5), thepreferred antecedent of the second companiesis the previously established group reference Thecompanies.
More generally, this is formulated inPrinciple 5.Principle 5 Maximize anaphoric chainsThe annotation of anaphoric references is pre-ferred over the annotation of alternative analy-ses.This principle is motivated by CONSISTENCY andcoverage considerations.4 Dealing with vagueness4.1 Ambiguity resolution strategiesThe problem of identifying an appropriate pointingrelation is especially acute in connection with ana-phoric ambiguity.
As opposed to general annota-tion strategies, however, the ambiguity strategiesapply only in case of doubt, i.e.
if the annotatorperceives different readings as equally possible.Consider ex.
(6) as a continuation of ex.
(4):(6) Je kleiner [die Ki-cker]u?/d?
daherkommmen, destogr?
?er wird [der Gegner]d?/u?geredet.
(PCC, 10374)?The smaller [the kickers]u?/d?
are, thegreater [the rivals]d?/u?
are rumoured to be.
?Antecedent of die Kicker ?kickers?
dependson the understanding of the ?size?
metaphor, it canbe either the Ukrainian team (presented as havingshort players), or the German team (which has notbeen favored in the first match), or a genericdescription (which would mean that the sentence isnot directly linked with the discourse).
Here, alsoPrinciple 5 can be applied, since we are facingalternative readings, and accordingly, the genericreading in the example is excluded.
Thisapplication of Principle 5 is reformulated inPrinciple 6.Principle 6 Primacy of anaphoraIn case of uncertainty between different read-ings prefer anaphoric interpretation to antece-dentless one.However, in the example under consideration,we still have the choice between two possibleantecedents.
The substitution test (see Sec.
2)fails to determine a unique antecedent, as bothpossible substitutions are plausible, dependingon whether ?size?
refers to physical size or an-ticipated defeat.
From the preference for MAXI-MAL ANALYSIS, however, a more rigid versionof Principle 5 can be motivated, cf.
Principle 7.Principle 7 Avoid ambiguous antecedentsIn case of two possible antecedents, primarymarkable is preferred to secondary ones or togroup referents.In case of two primary markables are possibleantecedents, choose the one which leads to thelonger anaphoric chain.In ex.
(6), this results in a preference for the Ger-man team as the antecedent of die Kicker.Finally, in order to narrow down the scope ofambiguity, another exception to the chain principleis necessary.
Markables with ambiguous referenceshould be avoided as antecedents, but rather thelast unambiguously coreferential expression.159Principle 8 Primary markables as preferredantecedentsPrefer antecedents which are unambiguous intheir reference to antecedents which are am-biguous.4.2 Annotation of ambiguitiesIn order to investigate the effect of ambiguity andto document its influence on inter-annotator-agreement, ambiguities are to be explicitly marked.For this purpose, we classified ambiguities as fol-lows.Ambiguous antecedent ambiguity of antece-dent of a markable, cf.
(6).Ambiguous relation ambiguity wrt relation be-tween a markable and the context:(7) Weil [die Polizei]p daswei?, richten sich [die Beam-ten]?
?
auf viele Anzeigen ...ein.
(PCC, 19442)?As [the police]p knows this, [the officials]?
areexpecting ?
a lot of statements?
?The relation between ?the police?
and ?the po-licemen?
is either bridging (part-whole) or corefer-ence.Ambiguous idiomatic ambiguity wrt whether amarkable could be either understood as coreferen-tial or as a part of an idiom.
In (8), der Spatz in derHand, a definite NP in German, can be generic,part of an idiom, or referring:(8) Lieber [der Spatz in derHand] als [die Taube auf demDach] (PCC, 12666)?A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush?
(Context: a mayor finds an investor for his townwilling to make only minimal investments).5 PoCoS annotation schemePoCoS disposes of three annotation levels: mark-ables, relations and attributes (5.1, 5.2. and 5.3).
Inwhat follows, we concentrate on the Core Schemebecause of relevance and space considerations.5.1 MarkablesPrimary markables are all potential anaphors, i.e.referential forms which can be used to indicatesubsequent mentions of a previously introducedreferent in the discourse, such as definite NPs, pro-nouns, and proper names.
Secondary markables areexpressions that normally indicates non-reference(e.g.
indefinites; in the Extended Scheme alsoclauses).
Secondary markables are subject to anno-tation only if they serve as antecedents of a pri-mary markable.The basic distinctive feature between primaryand secondary markables is if they can refer topreviously mentioned nominals or not.
Using theabove-mentioned grammatical criteria, most prob-able referring expressions (i.e.
primary markables)can be extracted automatically from syntactic an-notation, which is an important advantage.Further, using this differentiation a more precisedefinition of the coreference annotation task can begiven.
Coreference annotation is complete, if allprimary markables are classified as having an an-tecedent or not.5.2 Coreference RelationsWe distinguish between two types of coreference:nominal and non-nominal.
The Core Scheme onlydeals with nominal coreference, which we defineas reference of NPs to explicitly mentioned NPsestablishing a relation of identity (cf.
Mitkov?s(2002) ?identity-of-reference direct nominalanaphora?).
If a relation other than identity holdsbetween a primary markable and an element fromthe preceding context, e.g.
the bridging relation,the relation remains underspecified and can be as-signed later, as part of Extended Scheme.Differently from MUC, we do not considerpredicative nominals as coreferential with the sub-ject in the sense of textual coreference definedabove (for similar view, see van Deemter and Kib-ble, 1999), as the relationship with the hypotheticalantecedent is expressed by syntactic means.5.3 Annotation principlesIn sec.
3 and 4, we outlined a small set of heuris-tics serving to guide annotators to more consistentannotation decisions.
These principles are, how-ever, not equal in their restrictive force, but ratherthey build the following preference hierarchy (cf.Carlson et al, 2003):obligatory principles > exception principles >default principles > ambiguity principlesPrinciples 1 and 2 are obligatory and do not allowexceptions; 4, 5 and 8 are exceptions to the default,i.e.
the Chain Principle (3).
6 and 7 are appliedonly if interpretation-dependent ambiguities occur,thus being no exceptions to default principles.160Figure 1.
PoCoS: Core Scheme, Extended Scheme and language-specific instantiations5.4 AttributesMarkables and relations are enriched by a set ofadditional features.
These features encode attrib-utes of pointing relations (e.g.
anaphora type) orspecify parameters of anaphoricity (e.g.
referential-ity, ambiguity).
Further, certain grammatical fea-tures of markables are integrated which are of gen-eral interest when analyzing patterns of anaphorain corpora and can be extracted from other pre-existing annotations.
This way we gain a commonminimal representation of grammatical featureswhich can be extracted from different annotationschemes.
This allows us to abstract from language-, tool- or annotation-specific expressions of, say,grammatical roles.
As a consequence, the schemeis self-contained to a higher degree, and thus, thecross-linguistic validity of the assembled data isenhanced.5.5.
Annotation procedureThe scheme suggests structuring annotation intoseveral annotation cycles performed manually orsemi-automatically:I.
Core Scheme Annotation1.
Identify primary markables2.
Connect markables with coreference linksa.
assign to every primary markable aunique antecedentb.
if antecedent is not a primary markable,annotate it is as secondary markable ifnecessary3.
Set attribute valuesII.
Extended Scheme: steps 1 to 3 accordinglyThese stages correspond to the 3 annotation levelswithin the Core and Extended Schemes respec-tively, because annotating at all levels at the sametime has proved to be very labor-intensive andmore time-consuming than one level at a time.6 Application and evaluationThe original annotation guidelines were drafted in2004 by the authors for the annotation of the Pots-dam Commentary Corpus of German newspapercommentaries (PCC) (Stede, 2004) and the RSTDiscourse Treebank of Wall Street Journal articles(WSJ) (Carlson et al, 2003).After a series of annotation experiments, thePoCoS Core Scheme was applied to the PCC bytwo instructed annotators, students of linguistics,whose portions had an overlap of 19 texts (11%).Based upon these texts, inter-annotator agreementwas calculated using different agreement scoresalong the methodology of Popescu-Belis et al(2004).
So, with respect to German, we achievedmoderate to substantial agreement (full chains,?=0.61 with union of markables; ?=0.77 with in-tersection of markables).Part of the WSJ corpus has been performed inco-operation with A.A. Kibrik, Moscow State Uni-versity.
Fourteen instructed annotators, also stu-dents of linguistics, worked on the RST DiscourseTreebank with pair-wise overlapping portions.
Re-garding 8 texts from 6 annotators, we also foundsubstantial agreement (?=0.71 with union; ?=0.96with intersection).161These results are reasonable in the light of ?values reported for an annotation experiment byArtstein and Poesio (2005, p.22) on English whichyielded ?=0.48.
However, ?
is affected by parame-ters of the text as a whole, and thus should be in-terpreted with certain reservations.
The texts of thePCC are generally short, but very demanding intheir interpretation.A detailed study of outliers revealed severalsources of errors in both corpora.
Besides ?softerrors?
such as inclusion of punctuation and con-junctions within markables, occasionally missedintegration of function words into markables, orobviously missed anaphors, we found several?hard?
errors on syntax (e.g.
different assumptionsabout PP attachment), semantics (e.g.
vagueness,exact relationship between abstract concepts in agiven context), and pragmatics (e.g.
differentiationbetween metonymy and bridging).
Above, we sug-gested the annotation of ambiguity as an attempt tocapture typical semantic and pragmatic sources ofdisagreement (cf.
sec.
4.2 for examples).In order to evaluate the impact of such ?hard er-rors?
in the German data, two instructed annotatorscorrected 13 texts from the overlapping part of theportions independently.
As a concequence, theoriginal ?
values increased by about 7%: original ?= 0.69 (union)/0.82 (intersection), and corrected ?=0.76 (union)/0.89 (intersection).
These results,however, still suffer from the special problemswith the demanding ?
though, very interesting ?type of texts assembled in the PCC as well.Note that in spite of these short remarks, thispaper has focused on the presentation of thescheme principles rather than on its evaluation.Currently, the PCC is annotated with informationstructure and a more thorough evaluation address-ing both information status and co-reference is inpreparation.
A corpus of Russian is currently underconstruction, which PoCoS is being applied to (cf.Krasavina et al 2007).7 DiscussionThe majority of earlier coreference annotation ex-periences were dealing with English, including thestandard-like MUC-scheme (Hirschman, 1997).MATE was an attempt to extend annotation toother languages than English (Poesio, 2004).
ForGerman, several annotation schemes appeared andwere applied to annotation of corpora recently: fornewspaper texts, such as the T?Ba-D/Z (Naumann,2006) and for hypertexts, Holler et al (2004).
Asfor Slavic languages, the Prague DependencyTreebank has been recently enriched by corefer-ence annotation, see Ku?ov?
and Haji?ov?
(2004) .For Russian, though, we are aware of no similarexperiences so far.
The current approach is an ad-vance on the existing work as it attempts at provid-ing language-independent and systematic annota-tion principles, including a language-neutral reper-toire of relations and a language-neutral apparatusfor identification of markables.
This makes theresulting annotation scheme extendable and appli-cable across languages.The Core Scheme is comparable to MUC byHirschman, 1997; DRAMA by Passonneau, 1996;MATE by Poesio, 2004.
Its specific instantiationsformalized in a family of Extended Scheme(s) arecomparable to Rocha, 1997, GNOME by Poesio,2004.
By distinguishing between fundamental(?obligatory?
), project-specific (?recommended?
)and language-specific (?optional?)
levels of anno-tation (cf.
Leech and Wilson, 1996), a compromisebetween a general character and a greater level ofdetail is achieved.A central innovation is the dichotomy of pri-mary and secondary markables.
As both are de-fined on the basis of their syntactic properties, werecommend identifying primary markables auto-matically, but annotate secondary markablesmanually and only if needed.
The separation be-tween both leads to a reduction of the number ofpossible attribute values subject to annotation, andthus to reduction of complexity.
The definition ofprimary and secondary markables makes use oflanguage-specifics such as existence of a definitedeterminer, etc.
These specifications, althoughformulated here specifically for German and Eng-lish, are subject to language-specific alternativeinstantiations of the PoCoS Scheme.
Note that inRussian, the differentiation between primary andsecondary markables is made on the basis of dif-ferent linguistic cues, as definiteness is not explic-itly marked.
Therefore, in Russian, secondarymarkables are only certain quantified expressions.Nevertheless, the function of primary and secon-dary markables remains the same.
Further, exis-tence of a pre-determined set of potential anaphorsallows to verify if all primary markables are as-signed a relation or have been explicitly marked asnon-referring.162Another important novel aspect is the systematictreatment of ambiguity in the annotation of largecorpora.
This aspect has never been included incoreference annotation before (except for one ex-periment described by Poesio and Artstein, 2005)and thus defines the task of coreference annotationin a more precise way.
Moreover, we specified aset of heuristic rules to guide an annotator to a spe-cific decision in case of ambiguity or vagueness.These rules are ranked according to their priority.Similarly, Versley (2006) has recently argued thata ?light-weight theory?
of anaphoric ambiguity isdue, in order to ensure consistent coding decisions.Finally, splitting annotation procedure intostages allows explicit structuring of the process, inexisting approaches presented no more than im-plicitly (cf.
Naumann, 2006, see p. 12).8 ConclusionThis paper has presented the general coreferenceannotation framework and the PoCoS Scheme forcoreference annotation.
As an innovative featurefor coreference annotation, it implements ambigu-ity resolution strategies and proposes annotation ofambiguities.
Also, by introducing language-neutralcriteria for identification of markables, it both re-duces the notorious complexity of anaphoric anno-tation on the systematic basis and enables applica-bility of similar principles across languages.
Thus,it has a better portability and cross-language com-parability as compared to the previous work.
Onepossible field of application of the scheme can beseen in its utilisation for the anaphoric annotationof parallel corpora, an idea which is currently ex-plored by the authors.ReferencesArtstein, R. and ?.
Poesio.
2005.
Kappa3=Alpha (orBeta).
Technical Report CSM-437, Univ.
of Essex.Carlson, L., D. Marcu and M. E. Okurowski.
2003.Building a Discourse-Tagged Corpus in the Frame-work of Rhetorical Structure Theory.
Current direc-tions in discourse and dialogue, Kluwer.Deemter van, K. and R  Kibble.
1999.
What is corefer-ence, and what should coreference annotation be?Proc.
of the ACL Workshop on Coreference.Ge, M, J. Hale, and E. Charniak.
1998.
A statistical ap-proach to anaphora resolution.
Proc.
of the SixthWorkshop on very Large Corpora.Holler, A., J.F.Maas and A.Storrer.
2004.
ExploitingCoreference Annotations for Text-to-Hypertext Con-version.
Proc.
of LREC 2004, Lissabon, Portugal.Hirschman, L. 1997.
MUC-7 coreference task defini-tion.
Version 3.0.Karttunen, L. 1976.
Discourse referents.
Syntax andSemantics.
J. McCawley, New York Academic Press.Krasavina, O., Ch.
Chiarcos and D. Zalmanov.
2007.Aspects of topicality in the use of demonstrative ex-pressions in German, English and Russian.
Proc.
ofDAARC-2007, Lagos, Portugal, 29-30 March.Ku?ov?, L. and E. Haji?ov?
(2004).
Prague DependencyTreebank: Enrichment of the Underlying SyntacticAnnotation by Coreferential Mark-Up.
The PragueBulletin of Mathematical Linguistics 81.Leech, G. and J. Svartvik.
2003.
A communicativegrammar of English.
London [u.a.
].Leech, G. and A. Wilson.
1996.
EAGLES Recommen-dations for the Morphosyntactic Annotation of Cor-pora.www.ilc.cnr.it/EAGLES/annotate/annotate.htmlMitkov, R. 2002.
Anaphora resolution.
London [u.a.
].Naumann, K. 2006.
Manual for the Annotation of in-document Referential Relations.
http://www.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/de_tuebadz.shtml (July 2006).Passonneau, R. 1996.
Instructions for applying Dis-course Reference Annotation for Multiple Applica-tions (DRAMA).
Unpublished document.Poesio, M. 2004 The MATE/GNOME Proposals forAnaphoric Annotation, Revisited.
Proc.
of SIGDIAL.Poesio, M. and R. Artstein, 2005.
Annotating (Ana-phoric) Ambiguity.
Proc.
of Corpus Linguistics-05.Popescu-Belis, A., L. Rigouste, S. Salmon-Alt, and L-Romary.
2004, Online Evaluation of CoreferenceResolution.
Proc.
of LREC 2004.Rocha de, M. 1997.
Supporting anaphor resolution witha corpus-based probabilistic model.
Proc.
of theACL'97 workshop on Operational factors in practical,robust anaphora resolution.
Madrid, Spain.Stede, M. 2004.
The Potsdam Commentary Corpus.Proc.
of ACL-04 Workshop on Discourse Annota-tion, Barcelona, July.Versley, Y.
2006.
Disagreement Dissected: Vaguenessas a Source of Ambiguity in Nominal (Co-) Refer-ence.
Proceedings of the ESSLLI 2006 Workshop onAmbiguity in Anaphora.163
