Proceedings of the Workshop on Computational Approaches to Figurative Language, pages 5?12,Rochester, NY, April 26, 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsCorpus-driven Metaphor HarvestingAstrid ReiningInstitute of Romance LanguagesUniversity of Hamburg20146 Hamburg, Germanyastrid.reining@uni-hamburg.deBirte Lo?nneker-RodmanInternational Computer Science Institute1947 Center Street, Suite 600Berkeley, CA 94704, USAloenneke@icsi.berkeley.eduAbstractThe paper presents a corpus-based methodfor finding metaphorically used lex-emes and prevailing semantico-conceptu-al source domains, given a target domaincorpus.
It is exemplified by a case studyon the target domain of European politics,based on a French 800,000 token corpus.1 IntroductionThis investigation is situated within the frame-work of the Hamburg Metaphor Database1 (HMD)(Lo?nneker and Eilts, 2004), which collects manualannotations of metaphors in context.
HMD anno-tation terminology refers to cognitive linguistic ac-counts of metaphor.
These suggest that abstract?target?
concepts are often thought and talked of interms of less abstract ?source?
concepts (Section 2).On these accounts, the paper presents a method forfinding metaphorically used lexical items and char-acterizing the conceptual source domains they be-long to, given a target domain corpus.After mentioning related work on metaphor an-notation (Section 3), we exemplify our method by acase study on the target domain of European pol-itics, for which a French 800,000 token corpus isprepared and imported into a corpus manager (Sec-tion 4).
Using corpus manager functions, a smallset of highly salient collocates of Europe are classi-fied as candidates of metaphorical usages; after as-sessing their metaphoricity in context, these lexemes1http://www1.uni-hamburg.de/metaphernare grouped into semantico-conceptual domains forwhich, in a final step, additional lexical instanti-ations are searched (Section 5).
Two importantsource domains (BUILDING and MOTION) are de-tected, which are supported by over 1,000 manualcorpus annotations.
The domains can be charac-terized as small networks of EuroWordNet synsets(nodes) and lexical as well as conceptual relations(Section 6).
Section 7 concludes the paper.2 Theoretical AspectsThe Conceptual Theory of Metaphor (CTM) workedout originally by (Lakoff and Johnson, 1980) claimsthat conceptual metaphors such as GOOD IS UPand TIME IS MONEY structure the way we thinkand influence the way we use language.
Concep-tual metaphors are mappings between conceptualdomains, for example between the target domainGOOD and the less abstract source domain UP, orbetween TIME (target) and MONEY (source).Conceptual metaphors are rarely directly referredto in speech or writing: Whereas time is money is astanding expression in English, this is much less sofor many other conceptual mappings (cf.
?good isup).
Consequently, corpus analysis cannot have as agoal finding conceptual mappings as such.
Rather, itcan find their manifestations through non-literal us-ages of lexical items ?
i.e., contexts in which sourcedomain words are used to refer to elements in thetarget domain.For example, high (a word from the UP source do-main) means ?good?
in the expression high marks;and spend or save, used in the source domain to re-fer to actions involving money, refer to actions in the5target domain of TIME when used in contexts such asspend time or save time.Adopting a broad notion of metaphor based onCTM, we refer to such non-literal usages (thoughoften conventionalized) as lexical metaphors in thispaper.
Prominent conceptual metaphors are illus-trated by a larger number of lexical metaphors,which support the systematicity of their mapping.3 Related WorkEarlier projects annotating metaphor in corpora in-clude (Martin, 1994) and (Barnden et al, 2002).
Inwhat follows, we give two examples of recent work.Gedigian et al (2006) annotated a subset of theWall Street Journal for the senses of verbs fromMotion-related, Placing, and Cure frames whichwere extracted from FrameNet (Fillmore et al,2003).
The annotation shows that more than 90%of the 4,186 occurrences of these verbs in the corpusdata are lexical metaphors in the above sense.
Gedi-gian et al (2006) conclude that in the domain of eco-nomics, Motion-related metaphors are used conven-tionally to describe market fluctuations and policydecisions.
A classifier trained on the annotated cor-pus can discriminate between literal and metaphori-cal usages of the verbs.Lee (2006) compiled a 42,000 word corpus oftranscribed doctor-patient dialogues, exhaustivelyhand-annotated for stretches of metaphorical lan-guage.
These are provided with conceptual labelsenabling the author to identify prevalent and inter-related metaphorical mappings used as part of com-municative strategies in this domain.4 The European Constitution CorpusExploration and annotation of a corpus to find infor-mation regarding its predominant conceptual sourcedomains is most productive when applied to an ab-stract and novel target domain.
Abstractness callsfor ways to make the topic cognitively accessible,and novelty entails a certain openness about the par-ticular source domains that might be activated forthis purpose.Abstractness and novelty are criteria fulfilled bythe target domain selected for our study: EuropeanConstitutional politics.
The domain is representedby the public discourse on the possible introductionof a European Constitution and on the correspondingFrench referendum (29 May 2005).
The referendumallowed voters to accept or refuse the proposed Con-stitution text (the result being refusal).
The remain-der of this section describes the sources of the corpus(4.1), its acquisition (4.2), and pre-processing (4.3).4.1 SourcesThe corpus consists of two sub-corpora, collectedfrom online versions of two French dailies, LeMonde and Le Figaro.
The site lemonde.fr con-tains each article published in the printed version ofthe socialist-liberal newspaper Le Monde, whereaslefigaro.fr contains articles from the conser-vative newspaper Le Figaro.4.2 CollectionFrom 27 April to 5 June, 2005, the above men-tioned web sites were screened for articles on Eu-rope and the European Constitution on a daily basis.For the case study presented in this paper, only arti-cles dealing with the Constitution and discussing thereferendum are retained.
Each of these articles is adocument of the European Constitution corpus andcontains information on its publication date, author,and newspaper section (e.g.
editorial).
The selectionof relevant articles is performed manually.
This islabor-intensive but keeps noise to a minimum.
As aguideline for distinguishing between ?general?
Eu-ropean topics and the referendum on the EuropeanConstitution, key words including (European) Con-stitution and referendum are used.4.3 PreprocessingThe collected documents are converted into text for-mat and annotated with a simple SGML tagset rep-resenting document meta data (in the header), para-graph boundaries, and sentence boundaries.
Sen-tence detection is performed reusing TreeTaggerscripts2 because we POS-tag and lemmatize thetexts using the TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994) and itsFrench parameter file (Stein and Schmid, 1995).
Fi-nally, the corpus is verticalized for use with theManatee/Bonito corpus manager (Rychly?
and Smrz?,2Tokenizer perl script for modern French, available onAchim Stein?s web page, http://www.uni-stuttgart.de/lingrom/stein/forschung/resource.html[accessed 4 September 2006].62004), run in single platform mode on a Linux com-puter.Table 1 gives an overview of the two sub-corpora.When collecting the corpus, relevance to the topichad been our only criterion.
Interestingly, the twonewspaper corpora are very similar in size.
Thismeans that the selected topic was assigned equal im-portance by the different newspaper teams.
Tables 2and 3 show absolute frequencies of the top ten lem-mas, filtered by a list of 725 French stop words3 butstill including oui - ?yes?
and non - ?no?, buzz-wordsduring the political debate on the European Consti-tution.
The frequent words also give an impressionof the domain centeredness of the corpus.Le Monde Le FigaroSize (tokens) 411,066 396,791Distinct word forms 23,112 23,516Distinct lemmas 13,093 13,618Documents 410 489Paragraphs 7,055 6,175Subdocuments 59 n.a.Sentences 17,421 17,210Table 1: Size of the European Constitution corpus.5 Lexical Metaphors and Source DomainsOur aim is to determine empirically salientmetaphorical source domains used in the target do-main of European politics, combined with the prac-tical interest in speeding up the detection and anno-tation of lexical metaphors.
In Subsection 3 above,two approaches to corpus annotation for metaphorwere mentioned.
Due to the size of the corpusand limited annotator resources, we cannot followthe full-text annotation approach adopted by Lee(2006).
Neither do we proceed as Gedigian et al(2006), because that approach pre-selects source do-mains and lemmas.
In our approach, we search formetaphorically used lexical items from initially un-known source domains, so interesting lemmas can-not be listed a priori.Therefore, we developed a new method whichmakes efficient use of existing corpus manager func-tions.
The only constant is the representation of thetarget domain, predefined at a high level by the se-lection of our corpus.
We fixed the lemma Europe3Developed by Jean Ve?ronis: http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/veronis/data/antidico.txt [ac-cessed 4 September 2006].Lemma Occurrences1.
europe?en - ?European?
2,0332. non - ?no?
2,3063.
Europe - ?Europe?
1,5684. politique - ?political; politics?
1,1595. oui - ?yes?
1,1246.
France - ?France?
1,1107. constitution - ?Constitution?
1,0998. traite?
- ?treaty?
9069. monsieur - ?mister?
87210. mai - ?May?
781Table 2: Frequent words in the Monde sub-corpus.Lemma Occurrences1.
europe?en - ?European?
2,1482. non - ?no?
1,6903.
Europe - ?Europe?
1,6464.
France - ?France?
1,1505. politique - ?political; politics?
9696. constitution - ?Constitution?
9217. oui - ?yes?
9178. ministre - ?minister?
8859. traite?
- ?treaty?
85610. devoir - ?have to; obligation?
817Table 3: Frequent words in the Figaro sub-corpus.as a low-level anchor of the target domain.4 The in-vestigation proceeds in three steps:1.
Statistically weighted lists of collocates of thetarget domain lemma Europe are calculated andscreened for candidates of metaphorical lan-guage use (5.1).2.
For the obtained candidate collocates, the cor-pus is concordanced in order to discriminate us-ages and assign a source domain to each collo-cate (5.2).3.
The source domains are extended lexically,making use of EuroWordNet synsets and rela-tions (5.3).Corpus data drives the discovery of relevant lemmasin step 1.
In steps 2 and 3, the corpus is used toincreasingly refine and evaluate findings regardingrelevant lemmas and source domains.5.1 Collocate analysisAt this stage, it is necessary to set a range (span)within which candidate lemmas are to appear, mea-4We could have started with a larger set of target domainlemmas, e.g.
europe?en - ?European?, Bruxelles - ?Brussels?, UE- ?EU?
etc.
However, the results for Europe quickly proved tobe sufficient in number and variety to illustrate the method.7sured in lemma counts starting with the anchor wordEurope.
Sample concordances show that Europe isoften preceded by an article and sometimes by anadditional preposition.
Based on this insight, weheuristically restrict the context range for collocatesto four (i.e.
three words are allowed to occur be-tween it and Europe).
For example, me`re ?mother?in Example (1) is retained as a collocate:(1) Parce qu?elle a e?te?
la me`re4 fondatrice3 de2l1?Europe unie.
(?Because she [i.e.
France]has been the founding mother of the unifiedEurope.?
)The minimum absolute frequency of the collocatewithin the specified context range is set to 3, whichensures results of at least three example sentencesper co-occurring lemma.
Intentionally, no restrictionis applied to the part of speech of the collocate.For both sub-corpora, lists of the top 100 collo-cate lemmas for Europe are calculated in the Man-atee/Bonito corpus manager.
We use the MI-scorefor ranking; it is based on the relative frequency ofthe co-occurring lemmas.
Choosing MI-score overT-score is driven by an interest in salient collocatesof Europe, whether or not they are common in theentire corpus.
(T-score would tend to prefer collo-cates that occur frequently throughout the corpus.
)The top collocates and their MI-scores are given inTables 4 and 5.MI-scores of the 100 top-ranked collocates are be-tween 7.297 and 4.575 in the Monde corpus and be-tween 7.591 and 4.591 in the Figaro corpus.
Em-pirically, a threshold of MI >= 6 retains the mostsalient collocates of Europe in both corpora.
TheseLemma MI Abs.
f1.
panne - ?breakdown?
7.297 62. uni - ?unified?
7.275 133. re?veil - ?awakening; alarm clock?
7.034 34. unification - ?unification?
6.864 45. paradoxe - ?paradox?
6.812 36. construire - ?construct?
6.799 317. re?solument - ?decidedly?
6.619 38. otage - ?hostage?
6.619 39. utopie - ?utopia?
6.619 310. de?fier - ?defy, challenge?
6.619 3. .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.26. re?volte - ?revolt?
6.034 3. .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.100. maintenant - ?now?
4.575 6Table 4: Collocates of Europe in Le Monde.Lemma MI Abs.
f1.
oriental - ?oriental, east?
7.591 82. unifier - ?unify?
7.498 63.
Forum - ?Forum?
7.176 34. occidental - ?occidental, west?
7.065 55. panne - ?breakdown?
6.913 86. ouest - ?west?
6.691 37. prospe`re - ?prosperous?
6.591 48. bouc - ?goat?
6.498 39. patrie - ?fatherland, home coun-try?6.498 310. ruine - ?ruin?
6.498 3. .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.20. doter - ?endow?
6.006 8. .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.100. attacher - ?attach?
4.591 3Table 5: Collocates of Europe in Le Figaro.are 26 collocate lemmas from Le Monde and 20 fromLe Figaro.These highly salient collocates are evaluated forthe potential of being used metaphorically in the tar-get domain.
The guideline underlying this evalua-tion is as follows: Those lexemes which, in at leastone of their usages, designate entities belonging todomains more concrete than POLITICS (for exam-ple, BUILDING or FAMILY) are likely to be usedmetaphorically in the corpus.
Specifically, amongthose collocates with MI >= 6, we identify thefollowing metaphor candidates:Le Monde panne - ?breakdown?, re?veil - ?awak-ening; alarm clock?, construire - ?construct?,otage - ?hostage?, ba?tir - ?build?, me`re -?mother?, re?volte - ?revolt?
;Le Figaro panne, bouc - ?goat?, ruine - ?ruin?, tra-verser - ?traverse?, racine - ?root?, visage -?face?, reconstruire - ?reconstruct?.Merging the lists yields 13 distinct candidate words,which are now evaluated based on contexts fromwithin the corpus.
There are a total of 112 occur-rences of these lemmas co-occurring with Europe ina range of 4, the setting used to calculate collocatelists.
Each of them is inspected in a context of atleast one sentence.
An annotator decides whetherthe usage is metaphorical, and confirms this in al-most all of the cases (cf.
Table 6).5.2 Source domain identificationWhile disambiguating the 13 candidate lemmas incontext, the annotator also assigns a source domain8Monde Figaro Total Metaphorconstruire 31 13 44 44reconstruire 0 3 3 3ba?tir 5 1 6 6ruine 0 3 3 0 or 3panne 5 7 12 12traverser 2 7 9 9me`re 3 1 4 4racine 2 5 7 7visage 2 5 7 7re?veil 3 0 3 3re?volte 3 0 3 3otage 3 2 5 5bouc 3 3 6 6Total 62 50 112 109 or 112Table 6: Co-occurrences of candidate lemmas.label to each occurrence.
Actually, to hold the sta-tus of source domain in a conceptual mapping, aconceptual domain should be instantiated systemat-ically by a number of lexical metaphors.
Therefore,as long as this systematicity has not been verified,the assigned source domains are tentative.Four tentative source domains are postulated,two of which might need to be split into subdo-mains.
The general domains are BUILDING, MO-TION, FIGHT, and LIVING BEING.
Verbs (.V) andnouns (.N) instantiating them are listed in Table 7.The table also contains further (though still ambigu-ous) lemmas from the Top-100 collocate list sup-porting the source domains.
Observations regardingthe source domains, based on the 112 annotated lex-ical metaphors, are summarized in what follows.The BUILDING source domain has the highestDomain Disambiguated Futher collocatesLemmas (Top 100)1.
BUILDING construire.V, maison.N - ?house?,reconstruire.V, fonder.V - ?found?ba?tir.V, ruine.N ?2.
MOTION?
FORWARD panne.N, progresser.V - ?pro-MOTION traverser.V gress?, avancer.V- ?advance??
MOTOR panne.N moteur.N - ?motor?VEHICLE3.
FIGHT otage.N, re?volte.N lutter.V - ?fight?4.
LIVING BEING?
PROCRE- me`re.N, racine.N pe`re.N - ?father?,ATION na?
?tre.V - ?be born??
BODY visage.N dos.N - ?back?,coeur.N - ?heart??
REST re?veil.N ?Table 7: Tentative source domains.number of lexical metaphor instantiations.
The am-biguity of ruine - ?ruin?, however, is unresolvable:The texts talk about ?ruins of Europe?
after WorldWar II; if understood as ?ruins of cities/buildings inEurope,?
all of these occurrences are literal, but ifinterpreted as ?ruins of the European political sys-tem,?
all of them are metaphorical.
The ambiguitymight be deliberate.Also the MOTION domain has been assigned toa large number of disambiguated occurrences.
Thenoun panne - ?breakdown?
might instantiate a sub-domain, such as (MOTION IN A) MOTORIZED VEHI-CLE; in some cases, it has been assigned MACHINEas source domain, purposely underspecified as to itsmotion-relatedness.The LIVING BEING source domain is multi-faceted, comprising PROCREATION, BODY, andREST, obviously personifying Europe.
However, thefrequency of lexical metaphors in these domains isin large part due to recurring quotations: For ex-ample, me`re - ?mother?
is used exclusively withinthe expression la me`re fondatrice de l?Europe - ?thefounding mother of Europe,?
attributed to J. L. Ro-driguez Zapatero; and re?veil - ?awakening; alarmclock?
(pointing to an action of a living being) oc-curs only as part of the expression sonner le re?veilde l?Europe - ?ring the awakening/alarm of Europe,?coined by Ph.
de Villiers.
Finally, bouc - ?goat?
isalways part of the idiom le bouc e?missaire - ?scape-goat?.
Although it could be grouped under LIVINGBEING, this expression is based on particular cul-tural knowledge rather than on systematic exploita-tion of general world knowledge about the sourcedomain.The FIGHT domain has the lowest count of lexicalmetaphors in the annotated co-occurrences of Eu-rope.
Also, the noun otage - ?hostage?
occurs threetimes out of five within the expression (ne pas) pren-dre l?Europe en otage - ?
(not) take Europe hostage,?coined by N. Sarkozy and quoted as such.To summarize, we observe that the most salientlexical metaphors co-occurring with Europe in theEuropean Constitution corpus either refer to thesource domains of BUILDING or MOTION, well-known source domains of conventional metaphors,or the lexical metaphors are sparse, referring tomuch less clearly delimited source domains such asLIVING BEING or FIGHT.
Within the second group,9there are a number of newly coined expressions,?one shot rich image metaphors,?
(Lakoff, 1987)which evoke entire scenes but do not necessarilycontribute to a wide-spread systematic exploitationof the source domain.5.3 Lexical extensionCorpus annotation is now extended to a larger listof lemmas from the source domains of BUILDINGand MOTION.
The challenge here is finding addi-tional lemmas that might exploit the postulated map-pings, given a small set of disambiguated lemmasand ambiguous collocates (cf.
Table 7).
A lexicalresource for French containing information on con-ceptual domains would be helpful here.
EuroWord-Net (EWN) could go in this direction.
It definesmany relation types, including the synonym relationinside synsets, as well as hyponym, near-antonymand meronym relations between synsets.
Apart fromthese lexical relations, EWN also recognizes a fam-ily of semantico-conceptual INVOLVED relations,which relate a verb synset Y to a noun synset X if?X is the one/that who/which is typically involvedin Ying?
(Vossen, 1999) (our emphasis).
Unfortu-nately, there are almost no actual instantiations ofINVOLVED relations in the French part of EWN.Taking our previously identified collocates of Eu-rope as seeds, we extend our lemma list resorting toEuroWordNet synsets, as follows:?
lemmas in synsets lexically related by EWN re-lations to synsets containing our seed lemmas(hypo-, hyper-, anto-, mero- and synonyms);?
lemmas in synsets lexically related acrosspart of speech to synsets containing our seedlemmas, by adding missing XPOS NEAR-SYNONYM and XPOS NEAR ANTONYMrelations ourselves;?
lemmas in synsets that are conceptually relatedto the seed synsets, by adding INVOLVED re-lations ourselves.A reiteration of these steps (using encounteredlemmas as new seeds) could lead very soon to gen-eral or peripheral lemmas.
Ideally, one would setup a limit of reiteration per operation and considerall encountered lemmas as possible keywords of thedomain.
However, annotator resources being lim-ited, we reduced the list of key lemmas to about 20per domain (22 for BUILDING and 19 for MOTION),using human judgment.At this stage, the restriction on the keyword ofbeing a collocate of Europe is lifted.
This resultsin search, disambiguation, and annotation being per-formed on the entire corpus.
The annotator finds 663lexical metaphors among the 1,237 occurrences of22 BUILDING keywords, and 409 lexical metaphorsamong the 1,307 occurrences of 19 MOTION key-words.
Each key lemma contributes positively to thecount of lexical metaphors.
Two consequences fol-low from these figures:1.
Both postulated source domains are systemati-cally exploited by lexical metaphors.2.
Every second or third investigated occurrenceis a lexical metaphor.5 Collection and annota-tion of metaphors can thus proceed consider-ably faster on the key lemmas than it would onfull text or randomly selected sentences.For each lexical metaphor, the annotator providesEuroWordNet synset information.
For the actualmeaning in context, the synset belonging to the tar-get domain is encoded.
Additionally, the synset con-taining the metaphorically used lexeme in its sourcedomain sense is indicated (?source synset?
).6 Source domain structureThe information on source synsets underlies con-ceptual maps of the two source domains.
This isexemplified here by Figure 1, which represents theMOTION domain.
Lexical metaphors are prefixedby M ; those word senses not encoded in EWN aremarked with an asterisk at the end.
Synsets shadedgray in Figure 1 contain at least one lemma that isexploited as a lexical metaphor, and as such attestedin the European Constitution corpus.
Ovals rep-resent verb synsets, boxes show noun synsets, andhexagons depict events.Relations between synsets illustrate the internalstructure of the domain.
Solid lines represent rela-tions encoded in EuroWordNet.
For legibility rea-sons, labels of hyponym relations have been omitted.5In the vicinity of Europe, the ratio continues to be higher,with at least three quarters of the contexts being metaphorical.10M_progresser:2M_avancer:4?advance?d?placer:5 bouger:2 ?move?changer de place:1 se d?placer:2?get around?se d?placer:1 se mouvoir:1 M_aller:3?move, go?HAS_HYPONYMmoyen de transport:1v?hicule:1?means oftransportation?INVLVD_INSTRroute:4M_voie:2?route?INVLVD_DIRECTIONpasser:16?pass?M_traverser:5M_parcourir:3?pass through?M_traverser:4?traverse?M_continuer:2 M_poursuivre:5M_avancer:12?continue, pursue?M_avancer:8traverser:3?advance?M_passage:9M_chemin:3M_parcours:1*?passage?INVLVD_LOCATIONv?hicule:2?vehicle?vaisseau:2 M_bateau:2avion:2?vessel?v?hicule ?
moteur:1?motor vehicle?transportsen commun:1?public transportation?M_train:2?train?M_chemin:1M_direction:1?path?M_direction:6M_cours:2?direction?passer ?
travers:1M_franchir:2M_traverser:2?trespass?M_poursuite:5 pers?cution:2?pursuit?XPOS_NEAR_SYNfaire une pause:1 s?arreter:4?pause?NEAR_ANTM_route:2 M_chemin:4?way?M_bateau:1?boat?M_boussole:1*?compass?HAS_MEROPARTmoteur ?
combustion interne:1 M_moteur:2*?internal combustion engine?HAS_MEROPARTM_ancrer:2 mouiller l?ancre:1mouiller:2?moor; anchor?RELATION?CAUSESmoteur thermique:1?combustion engine?M_moteur:1?motor?panne de moteur:1 M_panne:1*?engine failure, breakdown?INVLVD_PATIENTM_arr?t:2 immobilisation:1?immobilization?CAUSESsouffler:1 reprendre haleine:1?catch one?s breath?M_arr?t:6 stop:1?halt?XPOS_NEAR_SYNFigure 1: The MOTION source domain with corpus-specific highlights.Dotted lines stand for relations that we added.
Thesewere labeled using EWN relation types (Vossen,1999), where possible.
As obvious from Figure 1,the domain graph would be separate partitions with-out our additional relations, especially those ofthe INVOLVED type.
Conceptual relations (?typi-cally.
.
.
?)
are thus a necessary addition to lexical re-lations (?necessarily.
.
.
?)
in order to represent con-ceptual source domains.The map representing the source domain is a re-sult of our corpus investigation of this specific tar-get domain corpus.
The structure of the source do-main is not intended to be a general representation ofthis domain, nor does it imply fixed domain bound-aries.
Rather, the network shows the elements of thesource domain that mapped onto the target domainfrom corpus attestations.
If the same source domainwere to be mapped onto some other target domain,other synsets might be used.
A lexico-conceptual re-source encoding general information on this sourcedomain would thus have to contain more synsets andrelations than those displayed in Figure 1.The choice of source domains as well as of cer-tain lexical items from within a source domain hasthe effect of ?highlighting and hiding?
certain as-pects of the target domain.
For example, amongthe numerous hyponyms of the central ?move?
synset{se de?placer:1 se mouvoir:1 aller:3}?most of whichare not displayed in Figure 1?, the European Con-stitution corpus shows a tendency towards lexi-cal metaphors in synsets containing the verb tra-verser - ?traverse?.
This profiles the path compo-nent of the motion event.
The path itself is fur-ther emphasized by lexical metaphors related tothe ?move?
synset by INVOLVED LOCATION andINVOLVED DIRECTION.
Also vehicles as instru-ments play a role in the conceptualization, but notall vehicles have metaphorical attestations in the cor-pus: only train - ?train?
and bateau - ?boat?
are foundduring a cross-check.
Finally, synsets referring to11the contrary of ?move?
are contained within the mapof the source domain.
Even the ?motor?
(as a vehi-cle part) and its ?breakdown?
(causing ?immobiliza-tion?)
are thus lexically and conceptually integratedin the MOTION domain derived from our corpus.All these highlightings and hidings can be inter-preted with respect to the situation of Europe beforethe referendum on its Constitution: Europe is madecognitively accessible as a multi-passenger vehiclein motion on a path, which has not yet arrived but isfacing obstacles to its motion, possibly resulting inbeing stopped.7 Conclusion and OutlookA method for quickly finding large amounts of lex-ical metaphors and characterizing their source do-mains has been exemplified, given a target domaincorpus.
The method makes use of collocate explo-ration of a target domain keyword, in order to iden-tify the most promising source domains.
Over 1,000manual annotations have been obtained and will beintegrated into the Hamburg Metaphor Database.This outnumbers by far the results of previous stud-ies filed within HMD, which originated under simi-lar conditions but did not resort to a corpus manager.Our method is different from automated work onmetaphor recognition such as (Mason, 2004) and(Gedigian et al, 2006) in that it includes nouns asparts of speech.
Implementing it in an automatedsystem would require more sophisticated lexical-conceptual resources, representing information onconcrete domains (possible source domains).
In par-ticular, the addition of lexical and conceptual linksbetween verb and noun synsets is crucial for estab-lishing a connected source domain graph.AcknowledgementsThanks to Patrick Hanks, Jana Klawitter, and threeanonymous reviewers for their helpful comments.
?This work was supported by a fellowship within thePostdoc-Programme of the German Academic Ex-change Service (DAAD), granted to the second au-thor.ReferencesJohn A. Barnden, Sheila Glasbey, Mark Lee, and Alan M.Wallington.
2002.
Reasoning in metaphor under-standing: The ATT-Meta approach and system.
InProceedings of the 19th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2002), pages1188?1193, Taipei, Taiwan.Charles J. Fillmore, Christopher R. Johnson, and MiriamR.
L. Petruck.
2003.
Background to FrameNet.
Inter-national Journal of Lexicography, 16(3):235?250.Matt Gedigian, John Bryant, Srini Narayanan, and Bran-imir Ciric.
2006.
Catching metaphors.
In Proceedingsof the 3rd Workshop on Scalable Natural LanguageUnderstanding, pages 41?48, New York City.George Lakoff and Mark Johnson.
1980.
Metaphors welive by.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.George Lakoff.
1987.
Women, fire, and dangerousthings: what categories reveal about the mind.
Uni-versity of Chicago Press, Chicago.Mark Lee.
2006.
Methodological issues in build-ing a corpus of doctor-patient dialogues annotated formetaphor.
In Cognitive-linguistic approaches: Whatcan we gain by computational treatment of data?
ATheme Session at DGKL-06/GCLA-06, pages 19?22,Munich, Germany.Birte Lo?nneker and Carina Eilts.
2004.
A current re-source and future perspectives for enriching WordNetswith metaphor information.
In Proceedings of the 2ndInternational Conference of the Global WordNet Asso-ciation, pages 157?162, Brno, Czech Republic.James H. Martin.
1994.
MetaBank: A knowledge-baseof metaphoric language conventions.
ComputationalIntelligence, 10(2):134?149.Zachary J. Mason.
2004.
CorMet: A computational,corpus-based conventional metaphor extraction sys-tem.
Computational Linguistics, 30(1):23?44.Pavel Rychly?
and Pavel Smrz?.
2004.
Manatee, Bonitoand Word Sketches for Czech.
In Proceedings of theSecond International Conference on Corpus Linguis-tics, pages 124?132, Saint-Petersburg.Helmut Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speech tag-ging using decision trees.
In International Conferenceon New Methods in Language Processing, Manchester,UK.Achim Stein and Helmut Schmid.
1995.
Etiquetagemorphologique de textes franc?ais avec un arbre dede?cisions.
Traitement automatique des langues, 36(1-2):23?35.Piek Vossen.
1999.
EuroWordNet General Document.Version 3.
Technical report, University of Amsterdam.12
