Proceedings of the Linguistic Annotation Workshop, pages 121?124,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsTwo Tools for Creating and VisualizingSub-sentential Alignments of Parallel TextUlrich GermannUniversity of Torontogermann@cs.toronto.eduAbstractWe present two web-based, interactive toolsfor creating and visualizing sub-sententialalignments of parallel text.
Yawat is a toolto support distributed, manual word- andphrase-alignment of parallel text through anintuitive, web-based interface.
Kwipc is aninterface for displaying words or bilingualword pairs in parallel, word-aligned context.A key element of the tools presented hereis the interactive visualization: alignmentinformation is shown only for one pair ofaligned words or phrases at a time.
Thisallows users to explore the alignment spaceinteractively without being overwhelmed bythe amount of information available.1 IntroductionSub-sentential alignments of parallel text play animportant role in statistical machine translation(SMT).
They establish which parts of a sentencecorrespond to which parts of the sentence?s trans-lation, and thus form the basis of a compositionalapproach to translation that models the translationof a sentence as a sequence of individual translationdecisions for basic units of meaning.
The simplestassumption is that typographic words, i.e., stringsof letters delimited by punctuation and white space,constitute the basic units of translation.
In reality, ofcourse, things are more complicated.
One word inone language may have to be translated into severalin the other or not at all, or several words may forma conceptual unit that cannot be translated word forword.
Because of its central role in building machinetranslation systems and because of the complexityof the task, sub-sentential alignment of parallel cor-pora continues to be an active area of research (e.g.,Moore et al, 2006; Fraser and Marcu, 2006), andthis implies a continuing demand for manually cre-ated or human-verified gold standard alignments fordevelopment and evaluation purposes.We present here two tools that are designed to fa-cilitate the process and allow human inspection ofautomatically aligned parallel corpora for the studyof translation.
The first is a web-based interfacefor manual sub-sentential alignment of parallel sen-tences.
The second is an extension of the traditionalkeywords-in-context tools to the bilingual case.
Adistinctive feature of both tools is that they are basedon an interactive process.
Rather than showing allalignment information at once, they hide most in-formation most of the time and visualize alignmentinformation only selectively and only on demand.2 Visualization schemes for sub-sententialtext alignment informationIn this section, we briefly review existing visualiza-tion schemes for word-level alignments.2.1 Drawing linesWord alignment visualization by drawing lines isshown in Figure 1.
This visualization technique hasseveral limitations.?
The parallel text cannot be wrapped easily.Each sentence has to be represented as astraight line or column of text.
If the word121I have not any doubt that would be the position of the Supreme Court of Canada .Je ne doute pas que telle serait la position de la Cour supre?me du Canada .I Jehave nenot douteany pasdoubt quethat tellewould seraitbe la.
.
.
.
.
.Figure 1: Visualization of word alignments by drawing lines.alignment is known, it may be possible to pre-segment the parallel text into smaller blocks oftext such that all word alignment links are con-tained within these blocks of text.
For manualword alignment from scratch, this is impossi-ble, for lack of prior word alignment informa-tion.
In consequence, the sentence pair oftenwill not fit on the computer screen entirely, sothat users have to scroll back and forth to viewand create alignment links.?
Especially when the two aligned sentencesshow differences in word order, many of thelines representing word alignments will crossone another, leading to a cluttered and hard-to-follow display.?
There is no good way to represent the align-ment on the phrase level, especially when thephrases contain gaps.
If the phrases involvedare contiguous, we can use brackets or boxesto group words into phrases, but this does notwork for phrases that contain gaps.
Anotherway to visualize phrase alignments is to linkeach word in each of the two phrases witheach word in the respective other phrase.
Thisacerbates the aforementioned problem of visualclutter.2.2 Alignment matricesAlignment matrices such as the one shown in Fig-ure 2 map the words of one sentence onto the rowsand the words of the other sentence onto the columnsof a two-dimensional table.
Each cell (r, c) in thetable represents a potential alignment between theword in the r-th position of the first sentence andthe word in the c-th position in the second sentence.If the two words are in fact aligned, the respectiveJe ne doutepas telleseraitla positionde la Coursupre?medu Canada.I ?have ?not ?
?anydoubt ?that ?would ?be ?the ?position ?of ?the ?Supreme ?Court ?of ?Canada ?.
?Figure 2: Visualization of word alignments with analignment matrix.cell contains a dot, otherwise it is empty.
This tech-nique allows the visualization of phrase-level align-ments even of discontinuous phrases (by filling thecells representing the cross-product of the two setsof words involved).
Fitting the matrix for pairs oflong sentences onto the screen is still a problem,however.2.3 ColoringA third way of visualizing word alignments is theuse of colors.
This technique has two draw-backs.First, it may be difficult to find enough colors thatare easily distinguished to mark up all alignments inpairs of long sentences, and second, actually track-ing alignments is tedious and requires a lot of con-centration.2.4 Interactive visualizationOur solution to the visualization problem is to takean interactive approach.
We use the coloring ap-proach, but use only one or two colors to mark up122Figure 3: Manual word alignment with Yawat.
Theimage shows the state of the screen with the mousehovering over the alignment matrix cell correspond-ing to dispatch ?
expe?dition.
A click onto the celllinks the two words.alignment pairs, and we mark up alignment pairsonly one at a time.
By positioning the mouse pointerover a word of interest, the user indicates whichalignment he or she would like to see.
All otheralignments are hidden.3 The tools3.1 YawatYawat (Yet Another Word Alignment Tool) is a toolfor manual alignment of parallel sentences.
It con-sists of a cgi-script responsible for retrieving andstoring sentence pairs and their alignments from adatabase on the server side and marking them up inHTML, and client-side functionality that handles theinteractive aspects of word-alignment and displayand reports changes back to the server-side script.The user interface combines alignment matrix vi-sualization with interactive colorization.
Figure 3shows the typical Yawat interface.
The alignmentmatrix on top gives a birds-eye view of the align-ment relations in the sentence.
If the mouse is posi-tioned over one of the cells, a tool-tip window popsup showing the row and column labels of the respec-tive cell.
If the cell is ?active?
(i.e., represents part ofan alignment relation), the corresponding alignmentpair is highlighted in the text section below.
Rowsand columns of the alignment matrix are deliberatelynot labeled so that the alignment matrix can be keptsmall.
Its size is adjustable via the [?]
and [+] but-tons to its left and right.The text section below the matrix shows the actualsentence pair.
Moving the mouse over an alignedword highlights the respective alignment pair in thetext as well as the corresponding cells in the matrix.The tool was designed to minimize the numberof mouse clicks and mouse travel necessary to alignwords.
Clicking on an empty cell in the matrixaligns the respective words.
The effect of clickingon an active cell depends on whether the cell rep-resents an exclusive link between two single words,or is part of a larger alignment group.
In the for-mer case, the link is simply removed, in the latter,the respective alignment group is opened for editing.Once an alignment group is open for editing, a left-click with the mouse adds or removes words.
Select-ing a word that is currently part of another alignmentgroup automatically removes it from that group.
Analignment group is closed by a right-click on one ofits members.
A right click on a non-member addsit to the group and then closes the group for editing.This allows us to perform single word alignmentswith two simple mouse clicks: left-click on the firstword and right click on the second, without the needto move the mouse on a visual ?link words?
button inthe interface.Unaligned text in the sentence pair is representedin red, aligned text in gray.
This allows the annota-tor to immediately spot unaligned sections withouthaving to refer to the alignment matrix or to scan thetext with the mouse to find unaligned words.We have not performed a formal user study, butwe have found the tool very efficient in our own ex-perience.3.2 KwipcKwipc (Key Words In Parallel Context) uses thesame interactive visualization technique to displayword alignments for multiple sentence pairs.
Itcurrently uses a very simple search interface thatallows the user to specify regular expressions forone or both of the sentences in the sentence pair.The server-side cgi-script searches the corpus lin-123Table 1: Word alignment visualization and editingtoolsname visualization editingCairoa lines noAlpacob lines yesLingua-AlignmentSetc matrix noUMIACS WA Interfaced lines yesHandAligne lines yesIlinkf static colors yesUPlugg matrix yesICAh matrix yesReWrite Decoder interactive, colors noYawat matrix, interactive,colors yesKwipc interactive, colors noa http://www.clsp.jhu.edu/ws99/projects/mt/toolkit/b http://www.d.umn.edu/?tpederse/parallel.htmlc http://gps-tsc.upc.es/veu/personal/lambert/\newlinesoftware/AlignmentSet.htmld http://www.umiacs.umd.edu/?nmadnani/\newlinealignment/forclip.htme http://www.cs.utah.edu/?hal/HandAlign/f http://www.ida.liu.se/?nlplab/ILink/g http://stp.ling.uu.se/cgi-bin/joerg/Uplugh Tiedemann (2006)early and returns a list of marked-up sentence pairsthat contain matching expressions (which are high-lighted in red) and provides the same interactivealignment visualization as Yawat.
For lack of space,we cannot provide a screen shot here.4 Related workThere are numerous tools available for the visual-ization and creation of word alignments, most ofwhich are listed on Rada Mihalcea?s web site onword alignment at http://www.cs.unt.edu/?rada/wa/.
A comparison of these tools is shownin Table 1.
Most tools use line drawing or alignmentmatrices for visualization.
Only Ilink (Ahrenberget al, 2002) relies on colors to visualize alignments,but it implements a static colorization scheme.
Theinteractive visualization scheme was first used in theHTML output of the ISI ReWrite Decoder1, but theformatting used there relies on an obsolete Docu-ment Object Model and is not functional any more.The use of different colors to distinguish alignedand unaligned sections of text can also be found inHandAlign.5 ConclusionWe have presented two web-based tools that usean interactive visualization method to display word-and phrase-alignment information for parallel sen-tence pairs, thus reducing visual clutter in the dis-play and providing users with focussed access tothe alignment information they are actually inter-ested in.
The editing tool Yawat was designed tominimize unnecessary scrolling, mouse clicks andmouse travel to provide the annotator with an ef-ficient tool to perform manual word- and phrase-alignment of parallel sentences.
Delivery of the ap-plication through the web browser allows collabo-rative alignment efforts with a central repository ofalignments and without the need to install the soft-ware locally.6 AvailabilityThe tools are available at http://www.cs.toronto.edu/compling/Software.ReferencesAhrenberg, Lars, Mikael Andersson, and MagnusMerkel.
2002.
?A system for incremental and in-teractive word linking.?
Proc.
LREC 2002, 485?490.
Las Palmas, Spain.Fraser, Alexander and Daniel Marcu.
2006.
?Semi-supervised training for statistical word align-ment.?
Proc.
COLING-ACL 2006, 769?776.
Syd-ney, Australia.Moore, Robert C., Wen-tau Yih, and Andreas Bode.2006.
?Improved discriminative bilingual wordalignment.?
Proc.
COLING-ACL 2006, 513?520.Sydney, Australia.Tiedemann, Jo?rg.
2006.
?ISA & ICA ?
Two webinterfaces for interactive alignment of bitexts.?Proc.
LREC 2006.
Genoa, Italy.1 http://www.isi.edu/publications/licensed-sw/rewrite-decoder/index.html124
