Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluations (SemEval-2007), pages 492?495,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsXRCE-T: XIP temporal module for TempEval campaignCaroline Hag?geXEROX Research Centre Europe6, chemin de Maupertuis38240 MEYLAN, FRANCECaroline.Hagege@xrce.xerox.comXavier TannierXEROX Research Centre Europe6, chemin de Maupertuis38240 MEYLAN, FRANCEXavier.Tannier@xrce.xerox.comAbstractWe present the system we used for theTempEval competition.
This system relieson a deep syntactic analyzer that has beenextended for the treatment of temporal ex-pressions, thus making temporal processinga complement to a better general purposetext understanding system.1 General presentation and system over-viewAlthough interest in temporal and aspectual phe-nomena is not new in NLP and AI, temporal proc-essing of real texts is a topic that has been of grow-ing interest in the last years (Mani et al 2005).The work we have done concerning temporalprocessing of texts is part of a more general proc-ess in text understanding, integrated into a moregeneric tool.In this article, we present briefly our generalpurpose analyzer XIP and explain how we performour three-level temporal processing.
TempEvalexperiments of our system are finally describedand results we obtained are discussed.1.1 XIP ?
a general purpose deep syntacticanalyzerOur temporal processor, called XTM, is an exten-sion of XIP (Xerox Incremental Parser (A?t Mok-htar et al, 2002).
XIP extracts basic grammaticalrelations and also thematic roles in the form of de-pendency links.
See (Brun and Hag?ge 2003) fordetails on deep linguistic processing using XIP.XIP is rule-based and its architecture can roughlybe divided into the three following parts:?
A pre-processing stage handling tokeniza-tion, morphological analysis and POS tag-ging.?
A surface syntactic analysis stage consist-ing in chunking the input and dealing withNamed Entity Recognition (NER).?
A deep syntactic analysis1.2 Intertwining temporal processing andlinguistic processingThe underlying idea is that temporal processing isone of the necessary steps in a more general task oftext understanding.
All temporal processing at thesentence level is performed together with othertasks of linguistic analysis.
Association betweentemporal expressions and events is considered as aparticular case of the more general task of attach-ing thematic roles to predicates (the TIME andDURATION roles).
We will detail in sections 3.1and 3.2 how low-level temporal processing is com-bined with the rest of the linguistic processing.2 Three levels of temporal processingTemporal processing has the following purposes:1) Recognizing and interpreting temporal expres-sions, 2) Attaching these expressions to the corre-sponding events1 they modify, 3) Ordering theseevents using a set of temporal expressions we pre-sent above.We deliberately decided not to change our sys-tem?s output in order to match TempEval gold-standard EVENTs and TIMEX3s.
This would have1 We consider as events: verbs, deverbal nouns or anykind of non-deverbal nouns from a pre-defined list (e.g.:?sunrise?
or ?war?
).492implied to change our parser?s behavior.
As linkingevents and temporal expressions is only a part of ageneral syntactico-semantic process, changing thispart would have had bad consequences for theother aspects of the parsing.4 years ago- DURATION4Y- TEMPORAL RELATIONBEFORE- REFERENTST (Speech Time)4Y, BEFORE, ST(4 years before ST)ADV[tempexpr:+,anchor:+] =#1[dur], adv#2[temp_rel,temp_ref],where(merge anchor and dur(#2,#1,#0))Figure 1: Local level processing, anchor date.2.1 Local levelRecognition of temporal expressions is performedby local rules that can make use of left and/or rightcontext.
Together with contextual rules, some ac-tions are associated.
These actions are meant toattribute a value to the resulting temporal expres-sion.
Figure 1 illustrates this stage for a simple an-chor date.
An ADV (adverbial) node with associ-ated Boolean features is built from linguistic ex-pressions such as ?4 years ago?.
Note that there isa call to a Python function (Roux, 2006)?merge_anchor_and_dur?
whose parameters arethree linguistic nodes (#0 represents the resultingleft-hand expression).
The representation of thevalues is close to TimeML format (Saur?
et al2006).2.2 Sentence levelThe sentence level is the place where some linksbetween temporal expressions and the events theymodify are established, as well as temporal rela-tions between events in a same sentence.Attaching temporal expressions to eventsAs a XIP grammar is developed in an incrementalway, at a first stage, any prepositional phrase (PP,included temporal PP) is attached to the predicateit modifies through a very general MOD (modifier)dependency link.
Then, in a later stage, these de-pendency links are refined considering the natureand the linguistic properties of the linked constitu-ents.In the case of temporal expressions, a specificrelation TEMP links the temporal expression andthe predicate it is attached to.For instance, in the following sentence (ex-tracted from trial data):People began gathering in AbujaTuesday for the two day rally.The following dependencies are extractedTEMP(began, Tuesday)TEMP(rally, two day)?Tuesday?is recognized as a date and ?two day?as a duration.Temporal relations between events in thesame sentenceUsing the temporal relations presented above,the system can detect in certain syntactic configu-rations if predicates in the sentence are temporallyrelated and what kind of relations exist betweenthem.
When it is explicit in the text, a temporaldistance between the two events is also calculated.The following example illustrates these temporaldependencies:This move comes a month afterQantas suspended a number ofservices.In this sentence, the clause containing the verb?suspended?
is embedded into the main clauseheaded by ?comes?.
These two events have a tem-poral distance of one month, which is expressed bythe expression ?a month after?.
We obtain the fol-lowing dependencies:ORDER[before](suspended, comes)DELTA(suspended, comes, a month)Verbal tenses and aspectMorphological analysis gives some informationabout tenses.
But the final tense of a complex ver-bal chain is calculated considering not only mor-phological clues, but also aspectual information.Tenses of complex verbal chains may be under-specified when there is insufficient context.493For instance, for the chain ?has been taken?, weextract ?take?
as the semantic head of the verbalchain.
The aspect is perfective and the tense of theauxiliary ?has?
is present.From this information, we deduce that this form iseither in present or in past.
This is expressed thefollowing way:PRES-OR-PAST(taken).2.3 Document levelBeyond sentence-level, the system is at the firststage of development.
We are only able to com-plete relative dates when it refers to the documentcreation time, and to infer new relations with thehelp of composition rules, by saturating the graphof temporal relations (Muller and Tannier, 2004).3 Adapting XTM to TempEval specifica-tionsThe TempEval track consists of three differenttasks described in (Verhagen et al 2007).
Tem-pEval guidelines present several differences withrespect to our own methodology.
These differencesconcern definitions of relations and events, as wellas choices about linking.3.1 TIMEX3 definitionTimeML definition of a temporal expression(TIMEX3) is slightly different from what we con-sider to be a temporal expression in XTM:?
First, we incorporate signals (in, at?)
intotemporal expressions boundaries.
But, asTIMEX3s are provided in the test collection,a simple mapping is quite easy to perform.?
We also have a different tokenization forcomplex temporal expressions.
This tokeni-zation is based on syntactic and semanticproperties of the whole expression.For example, our criteria make that we consider?ten days ago yesterday" as a single temporalexpression, while "during 10 days in Decem-ber" should be split into "during 10 days" and"in December".3.2 TIMEX3 linkingXTM does not handle temporal relations be-tween events and durations.
In our temporal model,an event can have duration.
However, this is notrepresented by a temporal relation, but by an at-tribute of the event.
Durations included in a largertemporal expression (like in ?two days later?)
in-troduce an interval for the temporal relation: AF-TER(A, B, interval: two days).
Here again no tem-poral relation is attributed with respect to the dura-tion.Therefore, we had to adapt our system so that itis able to infer at least some relations betweenevents and durations.
We used two ways to do so:?
An event having an explicit duration at-tributed by XTM gets the relation OVER-LAP with this duration.?
An event occurring, for example, ?twodays after another one?
(resp.
?two days be-fore?)
gets the relation AFTER (resp.
BE-FORE) with this duration.Other relations are found (or not) by composi-tion rules.3.3 TIMEX3 valuesTempEval test collection provides a "value" attrib-ute for each TIMEX3.
However we did not use thisvalue, because we wanted to obtain an evaluationas close as possible to a real world application.
Theonly value we used was the given Document Crea-tion Time.3.4 EVENTs mappingEvent lists do not match either betweenTempEval corpus and our system analysis.
Unfor-tunately, when a TempEval EVENT is not consid-ered as an event by XTM, we did not find any suc-cessful way to map this EVENT to another eventof the sentence.3.5 Temporal relation mappingThe set of temporal relations we use is the follow-ing: AFTER, BEFORE, DURING, INCLUDES,OVERLAPS, IS_OVERLAPPED AND EQUALS.494This choice is explained in more details in (Mullerand Tannier, 2004).Obtaining TempEval relations from our own re-lations is straightforward: AFTER and BEFOREare kept just as they are.
The other relations or dis-junctions of these relations are turned into OVER-LAP.
Disjunctions of relations containing AFTER(resp.
BEFORE) and OVERLAP-like relations areturned into OVERLAP-OR-AFTER (resp.
BE-FORE-OR-OVERLAP).4 ResultsThe trial, training and test sets of document pro-vided were all subsets of the annotated TimeBankcorpus.
For each task, two metrics are used, thestrict measure and the relaxed measure (see also(Muller and Tannier, 2004)).Our rule-based analyzer is designed to favorprecision.
As our system is intended for use in in-formation extraction, finding correct relations ismore important than finding a large number of re-lations.
That is why, at least for tasks A and B, wedo not assign a temporal relation when the parserdoes not find any link.
For the same reason, in ouropinion, the strict measure is not as valuable as therelaxed one.
We would argue that it does not reallymake sense to use a strict metric in combinationwith disjunctive relations.Tasks A and B were evaluated together.
We ob-tained the best precision for relaxed matching(0.79), but with a low recall (respectively 0.50).Strict matching is not very different.
Another inter-esting figure is that less than 10% of the relationsare totally incorrect (e.g.
: BEFORE instead of AF-TER).
As we said, this was our main aim.Note that if we choose a default behavior(OVERLAP for task A, BEFORE for task B,which are respectively the most frequent relations)for every undefined relation, we obtain precisionand recall of 0.69, which is lower than but not farfrom the best team results.Task C was more exploratory.
Even more thanfor task AB, the fact that we chose not to use theprovided TIMEX3 values makes the problemharder.
Our gross results are quite low.
We used adefault OVERLAP for each unfound relation2 andfinally got equal precision and recall of 0.57.2 The OVERLAP relation is the most frequent for task Ctraining data.However, assigning OVERLAP to all 258 linksled to precision and recall of 0.508; no team man-aged to bring a satisfying trade-off in this task.5 ConclusionWe described in this paper the system that weadapted in order to participate to TempEval 2007evaluation campaign.
We obtained a good preci-sion score and a very low rate of incorrect relations,which makes the tool robust enough for informa-tion extraction applications.
Errors and low recallare mostly due to parsing errors or underspecifica-tion and to the fact that we gave priority to ourown theoretical choices concerning event and tem-poral expression definitions and event-temporalexpression linking.ReferencesJames Allen, 1984.
Toward a general theory of actionand time.
Artificial Intelligence, 23:123-154.Salah A?t-Mokhtar, Jean-Pierre Chanod and ClaudeRoux.
2002.
Robustness beyond Shallowness: Incre-mental Deep  Parsing.
Natural Language Engineer-ing, 8 :121-144Caroline Brun and Caroline Hagege, 2003.
Normaliza-tion and Paraphrasing using Symbolic Methods, 2ndWorkshop on Paraphrasing, ACL 2003.Inderjeet Mani, James Pustejovsky and Robert Gai-zauskas (ed.)
2005.
The Language of Time A reader.Philippe Muller and Xavier Tannier 2004.
Annotatingand measuring temporal relations in texts.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING 2004.James Pustejovsky, Patrick Hanks, Roser Saur?, AndrewSee, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer and BethSundheim.
2003.
The TIMEBANK Corpus.
CorpusLinguistics.
Lancaster, U.K.Claude Roux.
2006.
Coupling a linguistic formalismand a script language.
CSLP-06, Coling-ACL.Roser Saur?, Jessica  Littman, Bob Knippen, RobertGaizauskas, Andrea Setzer and James Pustejovsky.TimeML Annotation Guidelines.
2006.Marc Verhagen, Robert Gaizauskas, Frank Schilder,Mark Hepple, Graham Katz and James Pustejovsky.2007.
SemEval-2007 ?
Task 15: TempEval TemporalRelation Identification.
SemEval workshop in ACL2007.495
