Proceedings of the Workshop on Textual Entailment and Paraphrasing, pages 185?192,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsA first order semantic approach to adjectival inferenceMarilisa AmoiaINRIA/Universite?
de Nancy 1 &University of the SaarlandSaarbru?cken, Germanyamoia@coli.uni-saarland.deClaire gardentCNRS/LoriaCampus Scientifique BP 23954506 Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy, Franceclaire.gardent@loria.frAbstractAs shown in the formal semantics litera-ture, adjectives can display very differentinferential patterns depending on whetherthey are intersective, privative, subsectiveor plain non-subsective.
Moreover, manyof these classes are often described usingsecond order constructs.
In this paper, weadopt Hobbs?s ontologically promiscuousapproach and present a first order treatmentof adjective semantics which opens the wayfor a sophisticated treatment of adjectivalinference.
The approach was implementedand tested using first order automated rea-soners.1 IntroductionAs has often been observed, not all of natural lan-guage meaning can be represented by first orderlogic.
There are expressions such as, most, former,I didn?t whose meaning intuitively involve higher-order constructs.Nevertheless, as (Hobbs, 1985) and others haveargued, semantic representations for natural lan-guage need not be higher-order in that ontologicalpromiscuity can solve the problem.
That is, by reify-ing all objects that can be predicated of, it is possibleto retain a semantic representation scheme for NLthat is first-order.This observation is crucial for computational ap-plications for two reasons.
First, logics that goes be-yond first order are highly undecidable.
Second andmore importantly, there is no off the shelf higher or-der automated reasoners that could be put to use toreason about the meaning of higher-order formulae.In this paper, we present a semantics for adjec-tives that adopts an ontologically promiscuous ap-proach and thereby supports first order inference forall types of adjectives including extensional ones.Indeed, traditional semantic classifications of ad-jectives such as (Chierchia and Connell-Ginet, 1990;Kamp, 1975; Kamp and Partee, 1995) subdivideadjectives into two classes namely extensional vs.intensional adjectives, the latter grouping togetheradjectives which intuitively denote functions fromproperties to properties, i.e.
second order objects.We present a compositional semantics for ad-jectives which both (i) defines a first order repre-sentation and (ii) integrates interactions with othersources of linguistic information such as lexical se-mantics and morpho-derivational relations.
We thenshow that the proposed semantics correctly predictsthe inferential patterns observed to hold of the var-ious adjective subclasses identified in the literature(Chierchia and Connell-Ginet, 1990; Kamp, 1975;Kamp and Partee, 1995; Amoia and Gardent, 2006).This paper is structured as follows.
We start bypresenting a classification of adjectives which is mo-tivated by the different inferential patterns observed.We then propose a compositional semantics for eachclass and show that it correctly predicts their inferen-tial behaviour.
We conclude with a brief discussionof related work and pointers for further research.2 Inferential patterns and adjective classesIn the literature (Chierchia and Connell-Ginet, 1990;Kamp, 1975; Kamp and Partee, 1995; Amoia and185Gardent, 2006), adjectives are usually divided intofour main classes namely, intersective, subsective,privative and plain non subsective depending onwhether or not the [Adj N]AP phrase entails theproperties expressed by the noun and/or the adjec-tive.
More specifically, each of the four classes ischaracterised as follows.Intersective adjectives.
This class includes com-mon categorical (e.g., red, rectangular, French) andtautological (e.g., real, present) adjectives.
It is char-acterised by the inferential patterns:[A N] |= N[A N] |= AFor instance, saying that there is a red table im-plies both that there is something red and that thereis a table.Subsective adjectives form an ontologically het-erogeneous class including for instance denominal(e.g., gastronomical) and measure (e.g.
big) adjec-tives.
They are characterised by the fact that the [AdjN]AP phrase does not entail the Adj property:[A N] |= N[A N] 6|= AFor instance, a big mouse is a mouse but is notbig.
Instead it is ?big for a mouse?.
In other words,?bigness?
cannot be directly inferred as, e.g.
a bigmouse and a big elephant are big in very differentways.Privative adjectives denote adjectives such thatthe [Adj N]AP phrase entails the negation of the Nproperty:[A N] |= ?NFor instance, the former king is not the king and afake weapon is not a weapon.Plain non-subsective adjectives are adjectiveswhich preclude any inference wrt to the N property:[A N] |= (N ?
?N)[A N] 6|= AThus, if Peter is an alleged murderer, it is impos-sible to know whether or not he is a murderer.Now, the class of intensional adjectives groups to-gether adjectives with a syntactic and semantic id-iosyncratic behaviour.
Syntactically, intensional ad-jectives are not gradable (e.g.
cannot be modifiedby very) and most of them can only be used attribu-tively (He is a former president but not The presi-dent is former).
Semantically, they are usually takento denote second order properties, i.e.
functions ofthe type ?
?e,t?, ?e,t?
?.Intensional adjectives include denominal (or rela-tional) adjectives (e.g polar bear, atomic scientist),manner (or adverbial) adjectives (e.g.
a poor liar, afast car), emotive (e.g.
a poor man) and modals, i.e.all adjectives which are related to adverbs, quanti-fiers or determiners (e.g.
a feeble excuse, the specificreason, a fake nose, etc.
).3 Assigning FOL Representation toIntensional adjectivesWe now show how adjectives can be assigned an ap-propriate first order logic representation which ap-propriately reflects their inferential behaviour.Following Hobbs, we adopt a promiscuous ontol-ogy and assume that for every predication that canbe made in natural language, there corresponds an?eventuality?.
As Hobbs has argued, this allows forhigher order predications to remain first order in thatthey become predications over (first order) eventual-ities.Thus, in the domain there are entities which areeither eventualities or individuals and relations be-tween individuals.
Moreover like Hobbs, we assumea model to describe a platonic universe containingeverything that can be spoken about whether or notthese things exist in the real world.
To express exis-tence in the real world, a special predicate (Exists)is introduced.We use the following notation:?
ei, for eventuality variables,?
xi, for individuals,?
Pi, for properties of individuals.And the following types:?
e will denote the type of individuals,?
ev the type of eventualities and186?
t a truth value.3.1 The intuitionAs shown in section 2, the semantics of [Adj N]APphrases has very different inferential properties de-pending on the type of the adjective Adj.
The differ-ences stem from three main points.The number of individuals introduced by the[Adj N]AP phrase.
Thus, the red table evokes asingle individual x which is both red and a tablewhilst the gastronomical book refers to a book xwhich is about the gastronomy concept y.
More gen-erally, the variables predicated of by the noun and bythe adjective can refer either to the same or to twodistinct individual(s).The properties licensed by the adjective and thenoun to contribute to the meaning of the [AdjN]AP phrase.
Depending on the adjective type,the properties denoted by Adj and N will contributeeither directly or indirectly to the meaning of the[Adj N]AP phrase.
Thus in an intersective [AdjN]AP phrase, the meaning contributed by Adj andN are simply the properties they denote.
By con-trast, the privative fake forces the negation of the Nproperty to be part of the Adj N meaning whilst thesubsective gastronomical induces a relation to themorphoderivationally related noun concept (aboutgastronomy) to be included in the the Adj N mean-ing.
More generally, the properties that compose themeaning of the Adj N phrase can be the denotationof Adj and/or N, the negation of N, its denotation inthe past or some property derived from it.The existence in the real world of the entity de-noted by the NP.
In all cases the [Adj N]APphrase denotes a set of individuals but whilst in mostcases the [Adj N]AP phrase is neutral with respectto the existence in the real world of these individ-uals, plain non-subsective [Adj N]AP phrases (e.g.alleged murderer) explicitly question it (an allegedmurderer may or not exist in the real world).3.2 The semantics of nounsIn designing a semantics for adjectives, we assumea semantics for nouns which reflect their possibleinteractions with the different types of adjectives(1) a. noun: ?Pol?e?x.
[Pol(table(e)) ?
e = x]As we shall shortly see, the additional lambdavariable e is imposed by the treatment of adjectivesemantics we propose and more specifically by thenecessity to sometimes distinguish between the indi-vidual described by the noun and the individual de-scribed by the adjective.
The variable Pol accountsfor the polarity of the noun, i.e.
whether it occurswith the negation or not.We give here also the semantics assigned to thepronouns someone/something which will be used inthe derivations throughout this paper:(2) a. someone/something: ?P?x.P (x)3.3 The semantics of the copulaFollowing the proposal of Mantague, we assign aunique representation for both the uses of the cop-ula in identity statements (e.g.
John is Mary ?john=mary) and in predicative assertions (e.g.
Johnis a man ?
man(john)):(3) a. be: ?K?x.K(?y(x = y))In the case of predicative assertions in which thepredicate is an adjective (e.g.
John is brave), weadjust the type of the argument of the copula in thefollowing way:(4) a. be Adj: be(Adj(?Pol?e?x.true))3.4 The semantics of adjectivesGiven such a representation for nouns, we representadjectives using the schema given in Figure 1.Briefly, schema 1 captures the observations madein section (3.1) as follows.
First it introduces an ex-istential quantification (in the platonic universe) overnot one but two variables (ea and en) ?
depending onhow the formula is instantiated (and in particular onthe value of R1 and R2) these two variables may ornot denote the same object.
This accounts for thefirst observation according to which an [Adj N]APphrase may refer to either one or two individuals.Second, the meaning of the [Adj N]AP phrase is afunction not of the Adj and N meaning but rather ofproperties derived from these meanings (A?
for Adjand N , as modified by its three arguments, for N).This accounts for the second observation.Third, the use of the exists predicate will permitdistinguishing between existence in the universe ofdiscourse and existence in the real world.187?N?x?ea?en.[A?
(ea) ?
R1(x, ea) ?
R2(en, ea) ?
N(Pol)(en)(x)]with A?
the property licensed by the adjective, R1, R2 two arbitrary relations licensed by the adjective,N the property denoted by the noun and Pol a polarity argument of value either ?S.S or ?S.
?SFigure 1: Semantics schema for all adjectivesWe now show how this general schema receivesdifferent instantiations depending on the adjectivalclass being considered; and how each instantiationpredicts the correct inferential pattern for the fouradjectival classes.3.4.1 Intersective adjectivesThe semantic representation of an [Adj N]AP ad-jectival phrase involving an intersective adjective isgiven in Figure 2 together with the derivation of the[Adj N]AP phrase red table.
As can be seen, in thiscase, the relation R1 holding between the lambdabound variable x and the entity introduced by theadjective is one of identity.
Similarly, the entity enintroduced is equated with x and the relation R2is ?x, y.true (i.e.
there is no modifying relationbetween ea and en).
Hence the [Adj N]AP phraselicenses in effect a single entity x and the resultingsemantics is the traditional ?x.
[A(x) ?
N(x)] withA the semantics of the adjective and N that of thenoun.
Assuming further that determiners have thesemantics:a/the ?P?Q?x.
[P (?S.S)(x) ?
Q(x)]then the semantics of Something is a red table is(5) ?x?ea?en.
[red(ea)?x = ea?table(en)?en =x]which correctly entails that there is an entity xwhich is both red and a table i.e.,(5) |= ?x.
[red(x)] something is red(5) |= ?x.
[table(x)] something is a table3.4.2 Subsective adjectivesAs recalled above, subsective adjectives are char-acterised by the fact that the [Adj N]AP phrase en-tails N but not A. Relatedly, the adjective phrase in-troduces not one but two individuals, one linked tothe adjective and the other to the noun.
For instance,the phrase the gastronomical book refers to a bookx which is about the gastronomy concept en.Thus in such cases, we take the R2 relation hold-ing between x, the NP quantified variable, and ea,the entity introduced by the adjective, to be distinctfrom identity, while the R1 relation is empty.
(6) ?x?ea?en.
[gastronomy(ea)?about(en, ea)?book(en) ?
en = x]This ensures that the NP refers to two entities, onebound by the determiner and licenced by N, the otherexistentially quantified and licensed by A.
For in-stance, the sentence John read every gastronomicalbooks is interpreted as meaning that John read allbooks that are about gastronomy.More generally, this ensures that [A N] 6|= A (andin fact, adjectives like gastronomical cannot be usedpredicatively), e.g.
(6) |= something is a book|= ?x.
[book(x)](6) |= something is about gastronomy|= ?x?ea.
[about(x, ea) ?
gastronomy(ea)](6) 6|= something is a book and a gastronomy6|= ?x[book(x) ?
gastronomy(x)](6) 6|= something is gastronomical6|= ?x[gastronomical(x)]As shown in (Amoia and Gardent, 2006), subsec-tive adjectives can be further divided into at leastfour classes.
Because of space restrictions, we onlyshow here how to represent two of these subclassesnamely denominal (e.g.
gastronomical) and mea-sure subsective adjectives (e.g.
big).
In both cases,the idea is to decompose the meaning of the adjec-tives into a finer grained lexical meaning.
Depend-ing on the lexical meaning involved, this decompo-sition induces different instantiation patterns for the188Intersective Adjectives?N?x?ea?en.
[A(ea) ?
x = ea ?
N(?S.S)(en)(x)]Red table?N?x?ea?en.
[red(ea) ?
x = ea ?
N(?S.S)(en)(x)](?Pol?e?x.
[Pol(table(e)) ?
e = x])?
?x?ea?en.
[red(ea) ?
x = ea ?
table(en) ?
en = x])?
?x.
[red(x) ?
table(x)])Figure 2: Semantics of Intersective AdjectivesSubsective Adjectives?N?x?ea?en.[A?
(ea) ?
R2(en, ea) ?
N(?S.S)(en)(x)]with A?
an arbitrary complex relation derived from the lexical meaning of the adjective andR2 a relation other than identityGastronomical book?N?x?ea?en.
[gastronomy(ea) ?
about(en, ea) ?
N(?S.S)(en)(x)](?Pol?e?x.
[Pol(book (e)) ?
e = x])?
?x?ea?en.
[gastronomy(ea) ?
about(en, ea) ?
book(en) ?
en = x])Figure 3: Semantics of Subsective AdjectivesR relation mentioned in the general schema for ad-jective semantic representation.Thus, the meaning of the adjectival phrasecontaining an adjective of measure, e.g.
big mousewill be represented as:?N?x?ea?en.
[size(ea) ?
highFor(ea, C)?has(en, ea) ?
N(?S.S)(en)(x)](?Pol?e?x.
[mouse(e) ?
e = x])?
?x?ea?en.
[size(ea) ?
highFor(ea, C)?has(en, ea) ?
mouse(en) ?
en = x])where C is a contextually given parameter which de-termine the scale size is measured against.
In thiscase, C would be, e.g.
?mouse?
so that the formulaabove can be glossed as x is a mouse with a size eawhich is high for a mouse.
In particular, Daisy isa big mouse entails that Daisy is a mouse and thatDaisy is big for a mouse, but not that Daisy is big.3.4.3 Privative adjectivesAs seen above, privative adjectives entail that theentity described by the NP is not N, e.g.
a fake gun isnot a gun.
For such adjectives, it is the entity intro-duced by the adjective that is being quantified over,hence ea is identified with x (cf.
Figure 4).
Fur-ther, the N property is either denied or subject to amodality (former, potential).
As shown in Figure 4,this is accounted for by providing the appropriate re-lation R (e.g.
R2 being the relation time introducedby former or R1 being the identity relation x = eaintroduced by fake).This representation presupposes that each sen-tence in which such modality adjectives do not occurhas a default value for time and/or modality.
Thus,for instance that(7) John is a former president.
6|= John is the pres-ident.
(8) John is a possible president.
6|= John is the pres-ident.can only be accounted for if the base forms areassigned the following default representations:(7) ?ea?x [president(x) ?
time(x, ea)?present(ea)](8) ?ea?x [president(x) ?
mod(x, ea)?possible(ea)]3.4.4 Plain non-subsective adjectivesFinally, plain non-subsective adjectives fail tomake any prediction about the existence of an in-189Privative Adjectives (e.g., fake,potential,former,future)(e.g.
fake, fictitious)?N?x?ea?en.
[A(ea) ?
x = ea ?
N(?S.
?S)(en)(x)] OR?N?x?ea?en.[A?
(ea) ?
mod/time(ea, en) ?
N(?S.S)(en)(x)]with R2 being the relation mod/time specifying the modality or the time indicated by the adjectiveFake gun?N?x?ea?en.
[fake(ea) ?
x = ea ?
N(?S.?S)(en)(x)](?Pol?e?x.
[Pol(gun(e)) ?
e = x])?
?x?ea?en.
[fake(ea) ?
x = ea ?
?gun(en) ?
en = x])Former president?N?x?ea?en.
[former (ea) ?
time(en, ea) ?
N(?S.S)(en)(x)](?Pol?e?x.
[Pol(president(e)) ?
e = x])?
?x?ea?en[former(ea) ?
time(x, ea) ?
president(en) ?
x = en]Figure 4: Semantics of Privative Adjectivesdividual having the N property.
Thus for instance,if John is an alleged murderer, there might or mightnot exist a murderer.To account for this fact, we follow Hobbs?
ap-proach in distinguishing between existence in theuniverse of discourse and existence in the real world.Thus, the logical existential connective ?
is used todenote existence in the discourse world while thespecial predicate Exists is used to denote existencein the real world.
We assume further a theory thatpermits determining when an individual exists in theuniverse of discourse and when it exists in the realworld.Given these caveats, the semantics of plain non-subsective adjectives is as indicated in Figure 5 andsimply specifies that the alleged murderer is an in-dividual x which exists in the universe of discourse(but not necessarily in the real world) and which isalleged to be a murderer.
Moreover, as stated in(Hobbs, 1985), we assume that the alleged predi-cate is existentially opaque in its second argument.That is, an alleged predication does not imply theexistence in the real world of its second argument.4 ImplementationThe semantics of adjectives presented in this paperwas tested using (Blackburn and Bos, 2005) compu-tational semantics framework.First, based on the classification of 300 Englishadjectives presented in (Amoia and Gardent, 2006),which identifies 17 different adjectival subclassesfor the four main classes proposed by (Kamp, 1975;Kamp and Partee, 1995), we have built a test suite ofabout 150 examples in the following way.
We havechosen for each class a representant adjective andwritten for it the set of sentence pairs (H/T) illus-trating the inference patterns displayed by the classthe adjective belongs to.
In particular, we have builtexamples which test:1. whether the adjective partecipates in both pred-icative and attributive constructions, so that theresulting sentences (H and T) are paraphrastic,2.
whether the two sentences contain adjectiveswhich are synonyms,3.
what kind of antonymic relation links the givenadjective with its antonym,4.
which of the three inference patterns describedin (Kamp and Partee, 1995) holds for the givenadjective,5.
hyperonymy,6.
derivational morphology.For instance, the test suite contains for an adjec-tive such as fake, belonging to a subclass of the pri-vative adjectives, the H/T pairs in (9).
(9) a. H:This is a fake gun / T:This gun is fake190Plain non subsective Adjectives (e.g., alleged)?N?x?ea?en.[A?
(ea, en) ?
x = ea ?
N(?S.S)(en)(en)]with R1 being the identity relation between x and ea and R2 being the relationintroduced by the adjective A?
(ea, en)Alleged murderer?N?x?ea?en.
[alleged(ea, en) ?
x = ea ?
N(?S.S)(en)(en)](?Pol?e?x.
[Pol(murderer (e)) ?
e = x])?
?x?ea?en.
[alleged(ea, en) ?
x = ea ?
murderer(en) ?
en = en])Figure 5: Semantics of plain non-subsective Adjectivesb.
H:This is a fake gun / T:This is a false gunc.
H:This is a fake gun / T:This gun is not gen-uined.
H:This is not a fake gun |= This gun is reale.
H:This is a fake gun / T:This is a gunf.
H:This is a fake gun / T:This is not a gung.
H:This is a fake gun / T:This is fakeh.
H:This is a fake gun / T:This is a fakeweaponi.
H:This is a fake gun / T:This gun is a coun-terfeitSecond, a grammar fragment was implementedwhich integrates the semantics of nouns and adjec-tives presented here.
This grammar fragment wasthen used together with the appropriate lexicon toautomatically associate with each sentence of thetest suite a representation of its meaning.Third, lexical Knowledge pertaining to each classof adjectives is captured through a set of axioms de-scribing the specific lexical relationships adjectivesare involved in.Synonymy is captured introducing equality axiomswhich describe the equivalence of the two proper-ties expressed by the two adjectives Adj1 and Adj2asserting:?e[Adj1(e) ?
Adj2(e)]Hyponymy (for example big/giant vs.small/minuscule) is captured by introducingthe axioms such as:?e[Adj1(e) ?
Adj2(e)]Antonymy is captured by introducing different ax-ioms depending on the type of opposition relation inwhich the adjectives are involved, i.e.
binary, con-trary or multiple opposition.
The axiom below forexample introduces a binary antonymic relation:?e[Adj1(e) ?
?
Adj2(e)]Fourth, entailment (H|=T) was checked for eachsentence pair using the first order theorem proversavailable in the system and the results comparedwith the expected result.
A first evaluation showsthat the methodology proposed yields the expectedresults: we could correctly predict all the inferen-tial patterns presented above from 1 to 5 (136 pairs,89%).
The results for other patterns, describing mor-phoderivational relations of adjectives, depend onthe amount of information implemented in the gram-mar which for the moment is very limited.5 Perspectives and Comparison withrelated worksThe approach presented here lays the basis for acomputational treatment of adjectival inference inthat it provides a fine grained characterisation of thevarious types of inferential patterns licenced by ad-jectives.In future work, we believe three main points areworth investigating.First, previous work (Amoia and Gardent, 2006)has shown that the classification presented here canbe further detailed and even finer-grained classesidentified thereby permitting the creation of syn-tactically and semantically homogeneous adjectival191classes.
The advantages of identifying such ho-mogeneous classes has been well demonstrated forverbs.
It permits structuring the lexicon and facil-itates development and maintenance.
Based on theidea that syntax (and in particular, so-called syntac-tic alternations) helps define such classes, we arecurrently investigating in how far adjectival syntaxhelps further refine adjectival classes.Second, the proposed classification need to be ap-plied and combined with ontological and lexical se-mantic information.
That is, each adjective shouldbe classified wrt the 4 types of model theoretic se-mantics described here and related to such a lexicalsemantics ontology as e.g., WordNet, the MikroKos-mos ontology of the SIMPLE lexicon.Thus (Raskin and Nirenburg, 1995) describe themethodology used to encode adjectival entries in thelexicon of the MikroKosmos semantic analyser.
TheMikroKosmos lexicon contains 6,000 entries for En-glish and 1,500 entries for Spanish adjectives.
Ad-jectives are organised in an ontology which distin-guishes between the following three main adjectivalclasses: (i) Scalar Adjectives, which are rep-resented as property-value pairs, (ii) DenominalAdjectives, (e.g.
atomic, civil, gastronom-ical) represented as nouns and (iii) DeverbalAdjectives, (e.g.
eager, abusive, readable) is re-lated to the meaning of the verb they are derived to.The classification of adjectives proposed in SIM-PLE (SIMPLE, 2000) is also ontology-based.
Alexical entry for an adjective is characterised by aset of semantic and syntactic information.
Seman-tic information describes: (i) the hierarchy of onto-logical properties expressed by the particular adjec-tive, for example the adjective expresses the prop-erty of COLOUR and this is a physical property; (ii)whether the adjective is intersective or subsective;(iii) whether the adjective has a persistent duration(i.e.
is stable) or not.
Moreover, syntactic informa-tion describes adjectival features such as (i) predica-tive/attributive usage, and (ii) gradability.SIMPLE has actually added semantic informationto approximately 3,500 lexical entries (about 10,000senses) for each of the 12 European languages con-sidered in the project.It would be interesting to see whether any of theseresources can be used to create an adjective lexiconrich enough to support both syntactic processing andsemantic inference.Finally, a third point of interest concerns the in-tegration of the compositional semantics proposedhere for adjectives into a robust semantic processingsystem.
We plan to integrate this semantics into theCCG2Sem semantic parsing system (Bos, 2005) andto investigate in how far, this would help deal withentailment recognition.ReferencesMarilisa Amoia and Claire Gardent.
2006.
Adjectivebased inference.
In Proceedings of KRAQ?06 (Knowl-edge and Reasoning for Answering Questions), Trento,Italy.Patrick Blackburn and Johan Bos.
2005.
Representationand Inference for Natiral Language.
A first Course inComputational Semantics.
CSLI Studies in Computa-tional Linguistics.Johan Bos.
2005.
Towards wide-coverage semantic in-terpretation.
In In Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-tional Workshop on Computational Semantics IWCS-6, pages 42?53.G.
Chierchia and S. Mc Connell-Ginet.
1990.
Mean-ing and Grammar: An Introduction to Semantics.
TheMIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Jerry R. Hobbs.
1985.
Ontological promiscuity.
InProceedings of the 23rd Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages 61?69,Chicago, Illinois, July.Hans Kamp and Barbara Partee.
1995.
Prototype theoryand compositionality.
Cognition, (57):129?191.Hans Kamp.
1975.
Two theories about adjectives.
InEdward L. Keenan (ed.
), Formal Semantics of Natu-ral Language, pages 123?155.
Cambridge UniversityPress.V.
Raskin and S. Nirenburg.
1995.
Lexical Semanticsof Adjectives, a micro-theory of adjectival meaning.MCCS Report.Specification Group SIMPLE.
2000.
Specification sim-ple work package 2.
Linguistic specifications deliver-able d2.1.192
