BioNLP 2007: Biological, translational, and clinical language processing, pages 41?48,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsCombining Multiple Evidence for Gene Symbol DisambiguationHua XuDept.
of Biomedical Informatics,Columbia University622 W 168th St. NY, USAhux7002@dbmi.columbia.eduJung-Wei FanDept.
of Biomedical Infor-matics, Columbia University622 W 168th St. NY, USAfan@dbmi.columbia.eduCarol FriedmanDept.
of Biomedical Informatics,Columbia University622 W 168th St. NY, USAfriedman@dbmi.columbia.eduAbstractGene names and symbols are importantbiomedical entities, but are highlyambiguous.
This ambiguity affects theperformance of both information extractionand information retrieval systems in thebiomedical domain.
Existing knowledgesources contain different types ofinformation about genes and could be usedto disambiguate gene symbols.
In thispaper, we applied an information retrieval(IR) based method for human gene symboldisambiguation and studied differentmethods to combine various types ofinformation from available knowledgesources.
Results showed that a combinationof evidence usually improved performance.The combination method using coefficientsobtained from a logistic regression modelreached the highest precision of 92.2% on atesting set of ambiguous human genesymbols.1 IntroductionIn the past decade, biomedical discoveries andpublications have increased exponentially due tohigh-throughput technologies such as automatedgenomic sequencing, and therefore, it is impossiblefor researchers to keep up-to-date with the mostrecent knowledge by manually reading the litera-ture.
Therefore, automated text mining tools, suchas information retrieval and information extractionsystems, have received great amounts of interest(Erhardt et al, 2006; Krallinger and Valencia,2005).
Biomedical entity recognition is a  first cru-cial step for text mining tools in this domain, but isa very challenging task, partially due to the ambi-guity (one name referring to different entities) ofnames in the biomedical field.Genes are among the most important biologicalentities for understanding biological functions andprocesses, but gene names and symbols are highlyambiguous.
Chen et al (2005) obtained gene in-formation from 21 organisms and found that ambi-guities within species, across species, with Englishwords and with medical terms were 5.02%,13.43%, 1.10%, 2.99%, respectively, when bothofficial gene symbols and aliases were considered.When mining MEDLINE abstracts, they found that85.1% of mouse genes in the articles were am-biguous with other gene names.
Recently, Fundeland Zimmer (2006) studied gene/protein nomen-clature in 5 public databases.
Their results showedthat the ambiguity problem was not trivial.
Thedegree of ambiguity also varied among differentorganisms.
Unlike other abbreviations in the litera-ture, which usually are accompanied by their cor-responding long forms, many gene symbols occuralone without any mention of their long forms.
Ac-cording to Schuemie et al (2004), only 30% ofgene symbols in abstracts and 18% in full textwere accompanied by their corresponding fullnames, which makes the task of gene symbol nor-malization much harder.Gene symbol disambiguation (GSD) is a par-ticular case of word sense disambiguation (WSD),which has been extensively studied in the domainof general English.
One type of method for WSDuses established knowledge bases, such as a ma-chine readable dictionary (Lesk, 1986; Harley andGlennon, 1997).
Another type of WSD methoduses supervised machine learning (ML) technolo-41gies (Bruce and Wiebe, 1994; Lee and Ng, 2002;Liu et al, 2002).In the biomedical domain, there are many generelated knowledge sources, such as Entrez Gene(Maglott et al, 2005), developed at NCBI (Na-tional Center for Biotechnology Information),which have been used for gene symbol disam-biguation.
Podowski et al (2004) used MEDLINEreferences in the LocusLink and SwissProt data-bases to build Bayesian classifiers for GSD.
Avalidation on MEDLINE documents for a set of 66human genes showed most accuracies were greaterthan 90% if there was enough training data (morethan 20 abstracts for each gene sense).More recently, information retrieval (IR) basedapproaches have been applied to resolve gene am-biguity using existing knowledge sources.
Typi-cally, a profile vector for each gene sense is builtfrom available knowledge source(s) and a contextvector is derived from the context where the am-biguous gene occurs.
Then similarities between thecontext vector and candidate gene profile vectorsare calculated, and the gene corresponding to thegene profile vector that has the highest similarityscore to the context vector is selected as the correctsense.
Schijvenaars et al (2005) reported on an IR-based method for human GSD.
It utilized informa-tion from either Online Mendelian Inheritance inMan (OMIM) annotation or MEDLINE abstracts.The system achieved an accuracy rate of 92.7% onan automatically generated testing set when fiveabstracts were used for the gene profile.
Xu et al(2007) studied the performance of an IR-based ap-proach for GSD for mouse, fly and yeast organ-isms when different types of information from dif-ferent knowledge sources were used.
They alsoused a simple method to combine different types ofinformation and reported that a highest precision of93.9% was reached for a testing set of mouse genesusing multiple types of information.In the field of IR, it has been shown that com-bining heterogeneous evidence improves retrievaleffectiveness.
Studies on combining multiple rep-resentations of document content (Katzer et al,1982), combining results from different queries(Xu and Croft, 1996), different ranking algorithms(Lee, 1995), and different search systems (Lee,1997) have shown improved performance of re-trieval systems.
Different methods have also beendeveloped to combine different evidence for IRtasks.
The inference-network-based framework,developed by Turtle and Croft (1991), was able tocombine different document representations andretrieval algorithms into an overall estimate of theprobability of relevance.
Fox et al (1988) extendedthe vector space model to use sub-vectors to de-scribe different representations derived fromdocuments.
An overall similarity between a docu-ment and a query is defined as a weighted linearcombination of similarities of sub-vectors.
A linearregression analysis was used to determine thevalue of the coefficients.Though previous related efforts (Schijvenaars etal., 2005, Xu et al, 2007) have explored the use ofmultiple types of information from differentknowledge sources, none have focused on devel-opment of formal methods for combining multipleevidence for the GSD problem to optimize per-formance of an IR-based method.
In this study, weadapted various IR-based combination models spe-cifically for the GSD problem.
Our motivation forthis work is that there are diverse knowledgesources containing different types of informationabout genes, and the amount of such information iscontinuously increasing.
A primary source contain-ing gene information is MEDLINE articles, whichcould be linked to specific genes through annota-tion databases.
For example, Entrez Gene containsan annotated file called ?gene2pubmed?, whichlists the PMIDs (PubMed ID) of articles associatedwith a particular gene.
From related MEDLINEarticles, words and different ontological conceptscan be obtained and then be used as informationassociated with a gene.
However they could benoisy, because one article could mention multiplegenes.
Another type of source contains summa-rized annotation of genes, which are more specificto certain aspects of genes.
For example, EntrezGene contains a file called ?gene2go?.
This filelists genes and their associated Gene Ontology(GO) (Ashburner et al, 2000) codes, which includeconcepts related to biological processes, molecularfunctions, and cellular components of genes.Therefore, methods that are able to efficientlycombine the different types of information fromthe different sources are important to explore forthe purpose of improving performance of GSDsystems.
In this paper, we describe various modelsfor combining different types of information fromMEDLINE abstracts for IR-based GSD systems.We also evaluated the combination models usingtwo data sets containing ambiguous human genes.42Figure 1 Overview of an IR combination-based gene symbol disambiguation approach using differenttypes of information.2 MethodsIn this paper, we extend the IR vector space modelto be capable of combining different types of generelated information in a flexible manner, thus im-proving the performance of an IR-based GSD sys-tem.
Figure 1 shows an overview of the IR combi-nation-based approach.
We generated three differ-ent sub-vectors for the context and three for theprofile, so that each sub-vector corresponded to adifferent type of information.
The similarity scoresbetween context and profile were measured foreach type of sub-vector and then combined to gen-erate the overall similarity scores to determine thecorrect sense.
We explored five different combina-tion methods using two testing sets.2.1 Knowledge Sources and Available Infor-mationThe ?gene2pubmed?
file in Entrez Gene wasdownloaded in January 2006.
A profile was thenbuilt for each gene using information derived fromthe related articles.
We used the following threetypes of information: 1) Words in the relatedMEDLINE articles (title and abstract).
This is thesimplest type of information about a gene.
GeneralEnglish stop words were removed and all otherwords were stemmed using the Porter stemmingalgorithm (Porter, 1980).
2) UMLS (UnifiedMedical Language System) (Bodenreider 2004)CUIs (Concept Unique Identifier), which wereobtained from titles and abstracts of MEDLINEarticles using an NLP system called MetaMap(Aronson 2001).
3) MeSH (Medical SubjectHeadings) terms, which are manually annotated bycurators based on full-text articles at the NationalLibrary of Medicine (NLM) of the United States.2.2 Document Set and Testing SetsUsing the ?gene2pubmed?
file, we downloaded theMEDLINE abstracts that were known to be relatedto human genes.
Articles associated with more than25 genes (as determined by our observation) wereexcluded, since they mostly discussed high-throughput technologies and provided less valuableinformation for GSD.
This excluded 168 articlesand yielded a collection of 116,929 abstracts,which were used to generate gene profiles and oneof the test sets.
Two test sets were obtained forevaluating the combination methods: testing set 1was based on the ?gene2pubmed?
file, and testingset 2 was based on the BioCreAtIvE II evaluation.Testing set 1 was automatically generated fromthe 116,929 abstracts, using the following 3 steps:1) Identifying ambiguous gene symbols in theabstracts.
This involved processing the entire col-lection of abstracts using an NLP system calledBioMedLEE (Biomedical Language Extracting andEncoding System) (Lussier et al 2006), which wasshown to identify gene names/symbols with highprecision when used in conjunction with GO anno-tations.
When an ambiguous gene was identified inan article, the candidate gene identifiers (GeneIDfrom Entrez Gene) were listed by the NLP system,but not disambiguated.
For each ambiguous genethat was detected, a pair was created consisting ofthe PMID of the article and the gene symbol, sothat each pair would be considered a possible test-ing sample.
Repeated gene symbols in the samearticle were ignored, because we assumed only onesense per gene symbol in the same article.
Usingthis method, 69,111 PMID and ambiguous humangene symbol pairs were identified from the abovecollection of abstracts.432) Tagging the correct sense of the ambiguousgene symbols.
The list of candidate PMID/genesymbol pairs generated from the articles was thencompared with the list of gene identifiers known tobe associated with the articles based on?gene2pubmed?.
If one of the candidate genesenses matched, that gene sense was assumed to bethe correct sense.
Then the PMID/gene-symbolpair was tagged with that sense and set aside as atesting sample.
We identified a pool of 12,289 test-ing samples, along with the corresponding taggedsenses.3) Selecting testing set 1.
We randomly selected2,000 testing samples from the above pool to formtesting set 1.Testing set 2 was derived using the training andevaluation sets of the BioCreAtIvE II Gene Nor-malization (GN) task (Morgan 2007).
The Bio-CreAtIvE II GN task involved mapping humangene mentions in MEDLINE abstracts to geneidentifiers (Entrez Gene ID), which is a broadertask than the GSD task.
However, these abstractswere useful for creating a testing set for GSD, be-cause whenever a gene mention mapped to morethan one identifier, disambiguation was required.Therefore, it was possible to derive a list of am-biguous gene symbols based on data that was pro-vided by BioCreAtIvE.
We combined both manu-ally annotated training (281 abstracts) and evalua-tion (262 abstracts) sets provided by BioCreAtIvE.Using the same process as described in step 1 oftesting set 1, we processed the abstracts and identi-fied 217 occurrences of ambiguous gene symbolsfrom the combined set.
Following a similar proce-dure as was used for step 2 in the testing set 1 (ex-cept that the reference standard in this case was themanually annotated results obtained from Bio-CreAtIvE instead of ?gene2pubmed?
), we obtained124 PMID/gene-symbol pairs with the correspond-ing tagged senses, which formed testing set 2.Because one article may contain multiple am-biguous gene symbols, a total of 2,048 PMIDswere obtained from both testing sets 1 and 2.
Arti-cles with those PMIDs were excluded from thecollection of 116,929 abstracts.
We used the re-maining document set to generate gene profiles,which were used for both testing sets.2.3 Profile and Context VectorsFor each gene in ?gene2pubmed?
file, we created aprofile.
It consisted of three sub-vectors containingword, CUI, or MeSH, respectively, using the in-formation derived from the related MEDLINE ab-stracts.
Similarly, a context vector was also formedfor each testing sample, using three sub-vectorscontaining word, CUI, or MeSH, which were de-rived from the abstract whose PMID was stated inthe testing sample.
The tf-idf weighting schema(Salton and Buckley, 1988) was used to assignweights to index terms in the profile and contextsub-vectors.
Given a document d, the Term Fre-quency (tf) of term t is defined as the frequency oft occurring in d. The Inverse Document Frequency(idf) of term t is defined as the logarithm of thenumber of all documents in the collection dividedby the number of documents containing the term t.Then term t in document d is weighted as tf*idf.2.4 Similarity MeasurementThe similarity score between the same type of con-text and profile sub-vectors were measured as co-sine similarity of two vectors.
The cosine similaritybetween two vectors a and b is defined as the innerproduct of a and b, normalized by the length oftwo vectors.
See the formula below:Sim(a,b) = cosine ?
=baba ?where22221 ... naaaa +++=    22221 ... nbbbb +++=We built three basic classifiers that used onlyone type of sub-vector: word, CUI, or MeSH, re-spectively, recorded three individual similarityscores of each sub-vector for each candidate geneof all testing samples.
We implemented five meth-ods to combine similarity scores from each basicclassifier, which are described as follows:1) CombMax - Each individual similarity scorefrom a basic classifier was normalized by di-viding the sum of similarity scores of allcandidate genes for that basic classifier.Then the decision made by the classifier withthe highest normalized score was selected asthe final decision of the combined method.2) CombSum - Each individual similarity scorefrom a basic classifier was normalized by di-viding the maximum similarity score of allcandidate genes for that basic classifier.
Theoverall similarity score of a candidate genewas considered to be the sum of the normal-ized similarity scores from all three basicclassifiers for that gene.
The candidate gene44with the highest overall similarity was se-lected as the correct sense.3) CombSumVote - The overall similarity scorewas considered as the similarity score fromCombSum, multiplied by the number of basicclassifiers that voted for that gene as the cor-rect sense.4) CombLR - The overall similarity score wasdefined as a predicted probability (P) of be-ing the correct sense, given the coefficientsobtained from a logistic regression modeland similarity scores from all three basicclassifiers for that gene.
The relation be-tween dependent variable (probability of be-ing the correct sense) and independent vari-ables (similarity scores from individual basicclassifiers) of the logistic regression model isshown below, where Cs (Cword, Ccui, Cmesh andC) are the coefficients, and SIMs (SIMword,SIMcui, SIMmesh) are the individual similarityscores from the basic classifiers.
To obtainthe model, we divided 2,000 testing samplesinto a training set and a testing set, as de-scribed in section 2.5.
For samples in thetraining set, the correct gene senses were la-beled as ?1?
and incorrect gene senses werelabeled as ?0?.
Then logistic regression wasapplied, taking the binary labels as the valueof the dependent variable and the similaritiesfrom the basic classifiers as the independentvariables.
In testing, coefficients obtainedfrom training were used to predict each can-didate gene?s probability of being the correctsense for a given ambiguous symbol.CSIMmeshCmeshSIMcuiCcuiSIMwordCwordCSIMmeshCmeshSIMcuiCcuiSIMwordCwordeeP +++++++= ******15) CombRank ?
Instead of using the similarityscores, we ranked the similarity scores andused the rank to determine the combinedoutput.
Following a procedure called Bordacount (Black, 1958), the top predicted genesense was given a ranking score of N-1, thesecond top was given N-2, and so on, whereN is the total number of candidate senses.After each sense was ranked for each basicclassifier, the combined ranking score of acandidate gene was determined by the sumof ranking scores from all three basic classi-fiers.
The sense with the highest combinedranking score was selected as the correctsense.2.5 Experiments and EvaluationIn this study, we measured both precision and cov-erage of IR-based GSD approaches.
Precision wasdefined as the ratio between the number of cor-rectly disambiguated samples and the number oftotal testing samples for which the disambiguationmethod yielded a decision.
When a candidate genehad an empty profile or different candidate geneprofiles had the same similarity scores (e.g.
zeroscore) with a particular context vector, the disam-biguation method was not able to make a decision.Therefore, we also reported on coverage, whichwas defined as the number of testing samples thatcould be disambiguated using the profile-basedmethod over the total number of testing samples.We evaluated precision and coverage of differentcombined methods for gene symbol disambigua-tion on both testing sets.Results of three basic classifiers that used a sin-gle type of information were reported as well.
Wealso defined a baseline method.
It used the major-ity sense of an ambiguous gene symbol as the cor-rect sense.
The majority sense is defined as thegene sense which was associated with the mostMEDLINE articles based on the ?gene2pubmed?file.To evaluate the CombLR, we used 10-fold crossvalidation.
We divided the sense-tagged testing setinto 10 equal partitions, which resulted in 200 test-ing samples for each partition.
When one partitionwas used for testing, the remaining nine partitionswere combined and used for training, which alsoinvolved deriving coefficients for each round.
Tomake other combination methods comparable withCombLR, we tested the performance of other com-bination methods on the same partitions as well.Therefore, we had 10 measurements for each com-bination method.
Mean precision and mean cover-age were reported for those 10 measurements.
Fortesting set 2, we did not test the CombLR methodbecause the set was too small to train a regressionmodel.We used Friedman?s Test (Friedman, 1937) fol-lowed by Dunn?s Test (Dunn, 1964), which arenon-parametric tests, to assess whether there weresignificant differences in terms of median precisionamong the different single or combined methods.453 ResultsResults of different combination methods for test-ing set 1 are shown in Table 1, which contains themean precision and coverage for 10-fold crossvalidation, as well as the standard errors in paren-theses.
All IR-based gene symbol disambiguationapproaches showed large improvements whencompared to the baseline method.
All of the com-bination methods showed improved performancewhen compared to results from any run that used asingle type of information.
Among the five differ-ent combination methods, CombLR achieved thehighest mean precision of 0.922 for testing set 1.CombSum, which is a simple combination method,also had a good mean precision of 0.920 on testingset 1.
The third Column of Table 1 shows that cov-erage was in a range of 0.936-0.938.Table 1.
Results on testing set 1.Table 2.
Results on testing set 2.We performed Friedman?s test followed byDunn?s test on each single run: word, CUI orMeSH, with all combination runs respectively.Friedman tests showed that differences of medianprecisions among the different methods were sta-tistically significant at ?=0.05.
Dunn tests showedthat combination runs CombSum, CombSumVote,CombLR, and CombRank were statistically signifi-cantly better than single runs using word or CUI.For single run using MeSH, combination runsCombLR and CombSum were statistically signifi-cantly better.The results of different runs on testing set 2 areshown in Table 2.
Most combined methods, exceptCombRank, showed improved precision.
The high-est precision of 0.906 was reached when usingCombSum and CombMax methods.
Note that thelogistic regression method was not applicable.
Thecoverage for testing set 2 was 0.944 for all of themethods.4 Discussion4.1 Why Combine?As stated in Croft (2002), a Bayesian probabilisticframework could provide the theoretical justifica-tion for evidence combination.
Additional evidencewith smaller errors can reduce the effect of largeerrors from one piece of evidence and lower theaverage error.The idea behind CombMax was to use the singleclassifier that had the most confidence, but it didnot seem to improve performance very much be-cause it ignored evidence from the other two basicclassifiers.
The CombSum was a simple combina-tion method, but with reasonable performance,which was also observed by other studies for theIR task (Fox and Shaw, 1994).
CombSumVote wasa variant of CombSum.
It favors the candidategenes selected by more basic classifiers.
In Lee(1997), a similar implementation of CombSumVote(named ?CombMNZ?)
also achieved better per-formance in the IR task.
CombLR, the combinationmethod trained on a logistic regression model,achieved the best performance in this study.
It useda set of coefficients derived from the training datawhen combining the similarities from individualbasic classifiers.
Therefore, it could be consideredas a more complicated linear combination modelthan CombSum.
In situations where training data isnot available, CombSum or CombSumVote wouldbe a good choice.
CombRank did not perform aswell as methods that used similarity scores, proba-bly due to the loss of subtle probability informationin the similarity scores.
We explored ranking be-cause it was independent of the weighting schemaand could be valuable if it performed well.Run Precision CoverageBaseline 0.707 (0.032) 0.992 (0.005)Word 0.882 (0.023)  0.937 (0.017)CUI 0.887 (0.022) 0.938 (0.017)MeSH 0.900 (0.021) 0.936 (0.017)CombMax 0.909 (0.020) 0.938 (0.017)CombSum 0.920 (0.019) 0.937 (0.017)CombSumVote 0.917(0.019) 0.938 (0.017)CombLR 0.922 (0.019) 0.938 (0.017)CombRank 0.918 (0.020) 0.938 (0.017)Run Precision CoverageBaseline 0.593 0.991Word 0.872 0.944CUI 0.897 0.944MeSH 0.863 0.944CombMax 0.906 0.944CombSum 0.906 0.944CombSumVote 0.897 0.944CombRank 0.889 0.94446The typical scenario where combination shouldhelp is when a classifier based on one type of in-formation made a wrong prediction, but theother(s), based on different types of information,made the correct predictions.
In those cases, theoverall prediction may be correct when an appro-priate combination method applies.
For example,an ambiguous gene symbol PDK1 (in the articlewith PMID 10856237), which has two possiblegene senses (?GeneID:5163 pyruvate dehydro-genase kinase, isoenzyme 1?
and ?GeneID:5170 3-phosphoinositide dependent protein kinase-1?
),was incorrectly predicted as ?GeneID: 5163?
whenonly ?word?
was used.
But the classifiers using?CUI?
and ?MeSH?
predicted it correctly.
Whenthe CombSum method was used to combine thesimilarity scores from all three classifiers, the cor-rect sense ?GeneID: 5170?
was selected.
When allthree classifiers were incorrect in predicting a test-ing sample, generally none of the combinationmethods would help in making the final decisioncorrect.
Therefore, there is an upper bound on theperformance of the combined system.
In our case,we detected that all three classifiers made incorrectpredictions for 65 testing samples of the 2,000samples.
Therefore, the upper bound would be1,935/2,000=96.7%.The methods for combining different types ofinformation from biomedical knowledge sourcesdescribed in this study, though targeted to the GSDproblem, could be also applicable to other textmining tasks that are based on similarity measure-ment, such as text categorization, clustering, andthe IR task in the biomedical domain.4.2 Coverage of the MethodsThe IR-based gene symbol disambiguation methoddescribed in this paper aims to resolve intra-species gene ambiguity.
We focused on ambiguousgene symbols within the human species and usedarticles known to be associated with human genes.Fundel and Zimmer (2006) reported that the degreeof ambiguity of the human gene symbols from En-trez Gene was 3.16%?3.32%, which is substantial.However, this is only part of the gene ambiguityproblem.Based on the ?gene_info?
file downloaded inJanuary 2006 from Entrez Gene, there were a totalof 32,852 human genes.
Based on the?gene2pubmed?
file, 24,170 (73.4%) out of 32,852human genes have at least one associated MED-LINE article, which indicates that profiles could begenerated for at least 73.4% of human genes.
Onaverage, there are 9.02 MEDLINE articles associ-ated with a particular human gene.
Coverage re-ported in this study was relatively high because thetesting samples were selected from annotated arti-cles as listed in ?gene2pubmed?, and not randomlyfrom the collection of all MEDLINE abstracts.4.3 Evaluation IssuesIt would be interesting to compare our work withother related work, but that would require use ofthe same testing set.
For example, it is not straight-forward to compare our precision result (92.2%)with that (92.7%) reported by Schijvenaars et al(2005), because they used a testing set that wasgenerated by removing ambiguous genes with lessthan 6 associated articles for each of their senses,and they did not report on coverage.
The data setfrom the BioCreAtIvE II GN task therefore is avaluable testing set that enables evaluation andcomparison of other gene symbol disambiguationmethods.
From the BioCreAtIvE abstracts, weidentified 217 occurrences of ambiguous genesymbols, but only 124 were annotated in the Bio-CreAtIvE data set.
There are a few possible expla-nations for this.
First, the version of the EntrezGene database used by the NLP system was not themost recent one, so some new genes were notlisted as possible candidate senses.
The second is-sue is related to gene families or genes/proteinswith multiple sub-units.
According to the?gene_info?
file, the gene symbol ?IL-1?
is a syno-nym for both ?GeneID: 3552 interleukin 1, alpha?and ?GeneID: 3553 interleukin 1, beta?.
Therefore,the NLP system identified it as an ambiguous genesymbol.
When annotators in the BioCreAtIvE IItask saw a gene family name that was not clearlymapped to a specific gene identifier in EntrezGene, they may not have added it to the mappedlist.
In Morgan et al (2007), it was suggested thatmapping gene family mentions might be appropri-ate for those entities.
Testing set 2 was a small setand results from that set might not be statisticallymeaningful, but it is useful for comparing withothers working on the same data set.In this paper, we focused on the study of im-provements in precision of the gene symbol dis-ambiguation system.
When combining informationfrom different knowledge sources, coverage may47also be increased by benefiting from the cross-coverage of different knowledge sources.5 Conclusion and Future WorkWe applied an IR-based approach for human genesymbol disambiguation, focusing on a study ofdifferent methods for combining various types ofinformation from available knowledge sources.Results showed that combination of multipleevidence usually improved the performance ofgene symbol disambiguation.
The combinationmethod using coefficients obtained from a logisticregression model reached the highest precision of92.2% on an automatically generated testing set ofambiguous human gene symbols.
On a testing setderived from BioCreAtIvE II GN task, the combi-nation method that performed summation of indi-vidual similarities reached the highest precision of90.6%.
However, the regression-based methodcould not be used, because the testing sample wassmall.In the future, we will add information that isspecifically related to genes, such as GO codes,into the combination model.
Meanwhile, we willalso study the performance gain in terms ofcoverage by integrating different knowledgesources.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported in part by Grants R01LM7659 and R01 LM8635 from the National Li-brary of Medicine, and Grant NSF-IIS-0430743from the National Science Foundation.
We wouldlike to thank Alexander Morgan for providing theevaluation set from the BioCreAtIvE II GN task.ReferencesAronson, A. R. 2001.
Proc.
AMIA.
Symp., 17-21.Ashburner, M. et al 2000.
Nat Genet, 25, 25-29.Black, D. 1958.
Cambridge University Press.Bodenreider, O.
2004.
Nucleic Acids Research, 2004,32, D267-D270.Bruce, R. and Wiebe, J.
1994.
Proceedings of ACL1994, 139-146.Chen, L., Liu, H. and Friedman, C. 2005.
Bioinformat-ics, 21, 248-256.Croft, W. 2002.
Advances in Information Retrieval.Springer Netherlands, Chapter 1, 1-36Dunn, O. J.
1964.
Technometrics, 6, 241-252.Erhardt, R.A., Schneider, R. and Blaschke, C. 2006.Drug Discov.
Today, 11, 315-325.Fox, E., Nunn, G., and Lee, W. 1988.
Proceedings ofthe 11th ACM SIGIR Conference on Research andDevelopment in Information Retrieval, 291?308.Fox, E. and Shaw, J.
1994.
Proceedings TREC-2, 243?252.Friedman, M. 1937.
Journal of the American StatisticalAssociation, 32, 675-701.Fundel, K. and Zimmer, R. 2006.
BMC.
Bioinformatics.,7: 372.Harley, A. and Glennon, D. 1997.
Proc.
SIGLEX Work-shop "Tagging Text With Lexical Semantics", 74-78.Katzer, J., McGill, M., Tessier, J., Frakes,W., andDasGupta, P. 1998.
Information Technology: Re-search and Development, 1(4):261?274.Krallinger, M. and Valencia, A.
2005.
Genome Biol., 6,224.Lee, J.
1995.
Proceedings of the 18th ACMSIGIR Con-ference on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval, 180?188.Lee, J.
1997.
Proceedings of the 20th ACM SIGIR Con-ference on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval, 267?276.Lee, Y. K. and Ng, H. T. 2002.
Proc EMNLP 2002, 41-48.Lesk, M. 1986.
1986 SIGDOC Conference, 24-26.Liu, H., Johnson, S. B. and Friedman, C. 2002.
J. Am.Med.
Inform.
Assoc., 9, 621-636.Lussier, Y., Borlawsky, T., Rappaport, D., Liu, Y.,Friedman, C. 2006.
Pac.
Symp.
Biocomput., 11, 64-75.Maglott D, Ostell J, Pruitt KD, Tatusova T. 2005.
Nu-cleic Acids Res., 3, D54-D58.Morgan, A., Wellner, B., Colombe, J.
B., Arens, R.,Colosimo, M. E., Hirschman L.  2007.
Pacific Sym-posium on Biocomputing 12:281-291.Podowski, R.M., Cleary, J.G., Goncharoff, N.T.,Amoutzias, G., Hayes W.S.
2004.
Proc IEEE Com-put Syst Bioinform Conf, 2004, 415-24.Porter,M.F.
1980.
Program, 14, 130-137.Salton, G. and Buckley, C. 1988.
InformationProcessing & Management, 24, 513-523.Schijvenaars, B.JA.
et al 2005.
BMC.
Bioinformatics.,6:149.Schuemie, M.J. et al 2004.
Bioinformatics, 20, 2597-2604.Turtle, H. and Croft, W. 1991.
ACM Transactions onInformation Systems, 9(3):187?222.Xu, H., Fan, J. W., Hripcsak, G., Mendon?a A. E., Mar-katou, M., Friedman, C. 2007.
Bioinformatics, doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btm056Xu, J. and Croft,W.
1996.
Proceedings of the 19th ACMSIGIR Conference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval, pages 4?11.48
