Proceedings of the Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition, pages 89?96,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007 c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsLearning to interpret novel noun-noun compounds: evidence from acategory learning experimentBarry Devereux & Fintan CostelloSchool of Computer Science and Informatics, University College Dublin,Belfield, Dublin 4, IRELAND{barry.devereux, fintan.costello}@ucd.ieAbstractThe ability to correctly interpret and pro-duce noun-noun compounds such as WINDFARM or CARBON TAX is an important partof the acquisition of language in various do-mains of discourse.
One approach to theinterpretation of noun-noun compounds as-sumes that people make use of distributionalinformation about how the constituent wordsof compounds tend to combine; another as-sumes that people make use of informationabout the two constituent concepts?
featuresto produce interpretations.
We present an ex-periment that examines how people acquireboth the distributional information and con-ceptual information relevant to compoundinterpretation.
A plausible model of the in-terpretation process is also presented.1 IntroductionPeople frequently encounter noun-noun compoundssuch as MEMORY STICK and AUCTION POLITICSin everyday discourse.
Compounds are particu-larly interesting from a language-acquisition per-spective: children as young as two can comprehendand produce noun-noun compounds (Clark & Bar-ron, 1988), and these compounds play an importantrole in adult acquisition of the new language and ter-minology associated with particular domains of dis-course.
Indeed, most new terms entering the Englishlanguage are combinations of existing words (Can-non, 1987; consider FLASH MOB, DESIGNER BABY,SPEED DATING and CARBON FOOTPRINT).These noun-noun compounds are also interest-ing from a computational perspective, in that theypose a significant challenge for current computa-tional accounts of language.
This challenge arisesfrom the fact that the semantics of noun-noun com-pounds are extremely diverse, with compounds uti-lizing many different relations between their con-stituent words (consider the examples at the end ofthe previous paragraph).
Despite this diversity, peo-ple typically interpret even completely novel com-pounds extremely quickly, in the order of hundredthsof seconds in reaction time studies.One approach that has been taken in both cog-nitive psychology and computational linguistics canbe termed the relation-based approach (e.g.
Gagne?& Shoben, 1997; Kim & Baldwin, 2005).
In thisapproach, the interpretation of a compound is rep-resented as the instantiation of a relational link be-tween the modifier and head noun of the compound.Such relations are usually represented as a set oftaxonomic categories; for example the meaning ofSTUDENT LOAN might be specified with a POSSES-SOR relation (Kim & Baldwin, 2005) or MILK COWmight be specified by a MAKES relation (Gagne?
&Shoben, 1997).
However, researchers are not closeto any agreement on a taxonomy of relation cate-gories classifying noun-noun compounds; indeed awide range of typologies have been proposed (e.g.Levi, 1977; Kim & Baldwin, 2005).In these relation-based approaches, there is oftenlittle focus on how the meaning of the relation inter-acts with the intrinsic properties of the constituentconcepts.
Instead, extrinsic information about con-cepts, such as distributional information about howoften different relations are associated with a con-cept, is used.
For example, Gagne?
& Shoben?sCARIN model utilizes the fact that the modifierMOUNTAIN is frequently associated with the LO-CATED relation (in compounds such as MOUNTAINCABIN or MOUNTAIN GOAT); the model does notutilize the fact that the concept MOUNTAIN has in-89trinsic properties such as is large and is a geologicalfeature: features which may in general precipitatethe LOCATION relation.An approach that is more typical of psycholog-ical theories of compound comprehension can betermed the concept-based approach (Wisniewski,1997; Costello and Keane, 2000).
With such the-ories, the focus is on the intrinsic properties ofthe constituent concepts, and the interpretation of acompound is usually represented as a modificationof the head noun concept.
So, for example, the com-pound ZEBRA FISH may involve a modification ofthe FISH concept, by asserting a feature of the ZE-BRA concept (e.g.
has stripes) for it; in this way, aZEBRA FISH can be understood as a fish with stripes.Concept-based theories do not typically use distrib-utional information about how various relations arelikely to be used with concepts.The information assumed relevant to compoundinterpretation is therefore quite different in relation-based and concept-based theories.
However, neitherapproach typically deals with the issue of how peo-ple acquire the information that allows them to in-terpret compounds.
In the case of the relation-basedapproaches, for example, how do people acquire theknowledge that the modifier MOUNTAIN tends tobe used frequently with the LOCATED relation andthat this information is important in comprehend-ing compounds with that modifier?
In the case ofconcept-based approaches, how do people acquirethe knowledge that features of ZEBRA are likely toinfluence the interpretation of ZEBRA FISH?This paper presents an experiment which exam-ines how both distributional information about re-lations and intrinsic information about concept fea-tures influence compound interpretation.
We alsoaddress the question of how such information is ac-quired.
Rather than use existing, real world con-cepts, our experiment used laboratory generatedconcepts that participants were required to learn dur-ing the experiment.
As well as learning the meaningof these concepts, participants also built up knowl-edge during the experiment about how these con-cepts tend to combine with other concepts via re-lational links.
Using laboratory-controlled conceptsallows us to measure and control various factors thatmight be expected to influence compound compre-hension; for example, concepts can be designed tovary in their degree of similarity to one another, tobe associated with potential relations with a certaindegree of frequency, or to have a feature which isassociated with a particular relation.
It would be ex-tremely difficult to control for such factors, or in-vestigate the aquisition process, using natural, realworld concepts.2 ExperimentOur experiment follows a category learning para-digm popular in the classification literature (Medin& Shaffer, 1978; Nosofsky, 1984).
The experimentconsists of two phases, a training phase followedby a transfer phase.
In the training phase, partic-ipants learned to identify several laboratory gener-ated categories by examining instances of these cat-egories that were presented to them.
These cate-gories were of two types, conceptual and relational.The conceptual categories consisted of four ?plant?categories and four ?beetle?
categories, which par-ticipants learned to distinguish by attending to dif-ferences between category instances.
The relationalcategories were three different ways in which a bee-tle could eat a plant.
Each stimulus consisted ofa picture of a beetle instance and a picture of aplant instance, with a relation occurring betweenthem.
The category learning phase of our experi-ment therefore has three stages: one for learning todistinguish between the four beetle categories, onefor learning to distinguish between the four plantcategories, and one for learning to distinguish be-tween the three relation categories.The training phase was followed by a transferphase consisting of two parts.
In the first part par-ticipants were presented with some of the beetle-plant pairs that they had encountered in the train-ing phase together with some similar, though previ-ously unseen, pairs.
Participants were asked to ratehow likely each of the three relations were for thedepicted beetle-plant pair.
This part of the transferphase therefore served as a test of how well partic-ipants had learned to identify the appropriate rela-tion (or relations) for pairs of conceptual categoryexemplars and also tested their ability to generalizetheir knowledge about the learned categories to pre-viously unseen exemplar pairs.
In the second part ofthe transfer phase, participants were presented with90pairs of category names (rather than pairs of cat-egory items), presented as noun-noun compounds,and were asked to rate the appropriateness of eachrelation for each compound.In the experiment, we aim to investigate three is-sues that may be important in determining the mostappropriate interpretation for a compound.
Firstly,the experiment aims to investigate the influence ofconcept salience (i.e.
how important to participantsinformation about the two constituent concepts are,or how relevant to finding a relation that informationis) on the interpretation of compounds.
For example,if the two concepts referenced in a compound areidentical with respect to the complexity of their rep-resentation, how well they are associated with vari-ous alternative relations (and so on), but are of dif-fering levels of animacy, we might expect the rela-tion associated with the more animate concept to beselected by participants more often than a differentrelation associated equally strongly with the less an-imate concept.
In our experiment, all three relationsinvolve a beetle eating a plant.
Since in each case thebeetle is the agent in the EATS(BEETLE,PLANT) sce-nario, it is possible that the semantics of the beetleconcepts might be more relevant to relation selectionthan the semantics of the plant concepts.Secondly, the experiment is designed to inves-tigate the effect of the ordering of the two nounswithin the compound: given two categories namedA and B, our experiment investigates whether thecompound ?A B?
is interpreted in the same way asthe compound ?B A?.
In particular, we were in-terested in whether the relation selected for a com-pound would tend to be dependent on the concept inthe head position or the concept in the modifier posi-tion.
Also of interest was whether the location of themore animate concept in the compound would havean effect on interpretation.
For example, since thecombined concept is an instance of the head concept,we might hypothesize that compounds for which thehead concept is more animate than the modifier con-cept may be easier to interpret correctly.Finally, were interested in the effect of conceptsimilarity: would compounds consisting of similarconstituent categories tend to be interpreted in simi-lar ways?learn trans.
Nr Rel Bcat Pcat B1 B2 B3 P1 P2 P3l 1 1 1 3 4 1 1 3 2 3l 2 1 1 3 4 4 1 2 3 3l t 3 1 1 3 1 1 1 3 3 2l t 4 1 1 3 4 1 2 3 3 3l t 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3l 6 2 2 2 2 2 1 2 3 2l 7 2 2 2 2 3 2 2 2 1l t 8 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 2 2l t 9 3 3 1 3 3 3 4 1 2l t 10 3 3 1 3 3 2 1 1 1l 11 3 3 1 2 3 3 4 4 1l 12 3 3 1 3 2 3 4 1 1l t 13 1 4 4 1 1 4 4 4 4l t 14 2 4 4 4 1 4 4 1 4l t 15 3 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 4t 16 - 1 1 4 1 1 4 1 1t 17 - 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3t 18 - 2 4 2 2 2 4 1 4t 19 - 4 2 4 1 4 2 2 2Table 1: The experiment?s abstract category struc-ture2.1 Method2.1.1 ParticipantsThe participants were 42 university students.2.1.2 MaterialsThe abstract category structure used in the exper-iment is presented in Table 1.
There are 19 itemsin total; the first and second columns in the tableindicate if the item in question was one of the 15items used in the learning phase of the experiment(l) or as one of the 13 items used in the transfer stageof the experiment (t).
There were four beetle cate-gories (Bcat), four plant categories (Pcat) and threerelation categories used in the experiment.
Both thebeetle and plant categories were represented by fea-tures instantiated on three dimensions (B1, B2 & B3and P1, P2 & P3, respectively).
The beetle and plantcategories were identical with respect to their ab-stract structure (so, for example, the four exemplarsof Pcat1 have the same abstract features as the fourexemplars of Bcat1).Beetles and plants were associated with particu-lar relations; Bcat1, Bcat2 and Bcat3 were associ-ated with Relations 1, 2 and 3, respectively, whereasPcat1, Pcat2 and Pcat3 were associated with Rela-tions 3, 2 and 1, respectively.
Bcat4 and Pcat4 werenot associated with any relations; the three exemplar91instances of these categories in the learning phaseappeared once with each of the three relations.
Thefeatures of beetles and plants were sometimes diag-nostic of a category (much as the feature has threewheels is diagnostic for TRICYCLE); for example, aparticular feature associated with Bcat1 is a 1 on theB3 dimension: 3 of the 4 Bcat1 training phase exem-plars have a 1 on dimension B3 while only one of theremaining 11 training phase exemplars do.
Also, theintrinsic features of beetles and plants are sometimesdiagnostic of a relation category (much as the intrin-sic feature has a flat surface raised off the ground isdiagnostic for the relational scenario sit on); valueson dimensions B1, P1, B2 and P2 are quite diag-nostic of relations.
Participants learned to identifythe plant, beetle and relation categories used in theexperiment by attending to the associations betweenbeetle, plant and relation categories and feature di-agnosticity for those categories.The beetle and plant categories were also de-signed to differ in terms of their similarity.
For ex-ample, categories Bcat1 and Bcat4 are more simi-lar to each other than Bcat3 and Bcat4 are: the fea-tures for Bcat1 and Bcat4 overlap to a greater extentthan the features for Bcat3 and Bcat4 do.
The aimof varying categories with respect to their similaritywas to investigate whether similar categories wouldyield similar patterns of relation likelihood ratings.In particular, Bcat4 (and Pcat4) occurs equally oftenwith the three relations; therefore if category simi-larity has no effect we would expect people to selecteach of the relations equally often for this category.However, if similarity influences participants?
rela-tion selection, then we would expect that Relation 1would be selected more often than Relations 2 or 3.The abstract category structure was mapped toconcrete features in a way that was unique for eachparticipant.
Each beetle dimension was mapped ran-domly to the concrete dimensions of beetle shellcolor, shell pattern and facial expression.
Each plantdimension was randomly mapped to the concrete di-mensions of leaf color, leaf shape, and stem color.The three relations were randomly mapped to eatsfrom leaf, eats from top, and eats from trunk.2.1.3 ProcedureThe experiment consisted of a training phase anda transfer phase.
The training phase itself consistedFigure 1: Example of a relation learning stimulusof three sub-stages in which participants learned todistinguish between the plant, beetle and relationcategories.
During each training sub-stage, the 15training items were presented to participants sequen-tially on a web-page in a random order.
Underneatheach item, participants were presented with a ques-tion of the form ?What kind of plant is seen in thispicture?
?, ?What type of beetle is seen in this pic-ture??
and ?How does this ?Bcat?
eat this ?Pcat??
?in the plant learning, beetle learning, and relationlearning training sub-stages, respectively (e.g.
Fig-ure 1).
Underneath the question were radio but-tons on which participants could select what theybelieved to be the correct category; after participantshad made their selection, they were given feedbackabout whether their guess had been correct (with thecorrect eating relation shown taking place).
Each ofthe three substages was repeated until participantshad correctly classified 75% or more of the items.Once they had successfully completed the trainingphase they moved on to the transfer phase.The transfer phase consisted of two stages, anexemplar transfer stage and a compound transferstage.
In the exemplar transfer stage, participantswere presented with 13 beetle-plant items, some ofwhich had appeared in training and some of whichwere new items (see Table 1).
Underneath eachpicture was a question of the form ?How does this?Bcat?
eat this ?Pcat???
and three 5-point scalesfor the three relations, ranging from 0 (unlikely) to4 (likely).The materials used in the compound transfer stageof the experiment were the 16 possible noun-noun92compounds consisting of a beetle and plant categorylabel.
Participants were presented with a sentence ofthe form ?There are a lot of ?Pcat?
?Bcat?s aroundat the moment.?
and were asked ?What kind of eat-ing activity would you expect a ?Pcat?
?Bcat?
tohave??.
Underneath, participants rated the likeli-hood of each of the three relations on 5-point scales.One half of participants were presented with thecompounds in the form ??Bcat?
?Pcat??
whereasthe other half of participants saw the compounds inthe form ??Pcat?
?Bcat?
?.2.2 Results2.2.1 Performance during trainingTwo of the participants failed to complete thetraining phase.
For the remaining 40 participants,successful learning took on average 5.8 iterations ofthe training items for the plant categories, 3.9 itera-tions for the beetle categories, and 2.1 iterations forthe relation categories.
The participants thereforelearned to distinguish between the categories quitequickly, which is consistent with the fact that the cat-egories were designed to be quite easy to learn.2.2.2 Performance during the exemplartransfer stageParticipants?
mean ratings of relation likelihoodfor the nine previously seen exemplar items is pre-sented in Figure 2 (items 3 to 15).
For each of theseitems there was a correct relation, namely the onethat the item was associated with during training.The difference between the mean response for thecorrect relation (M = 2.76) and the mean responsefor the two incorrect relations (M = 1.42) was sig-nificant (ts(39) = 7.50, p < .01; ti(8) = 4.07,p < .01).
These results suggest that participantswere able to learn which relations tended to co-occurwith the items in the training phase.Participants?
mean ratings of relation likelihoodfor the four exemplar items not previously seen intraining are also presented in Figure 2 (items 16 to19).
Each of these four items consisted of a proto-typical example of each of the four beetle categoriesand each of the four plant categories (with each bee-tle and plant category appearing once; see Table 1for details).
For these four items there was no cor-rect answer; indeed, the relation consistent with thebeetle exemplar was always different to the relationFigure 2: Participants?
mean responses for the ex-emplar transfer items.suggested by the plant exemplar.
For each trial, then,one relation is consistent with the beetle exemplar(rb), one is consistent with the plant exemplar (rp)and one is neutral (rn).
One-way repeated measuresANOVAs with response type (rb, rp or rn) as a fixedfactor and either subject or item as a random factorwere used to investigate the data.
There was a signif-icant effect of response type in both the by-subjectsand by-items analysis (Fs(2, 39) = 19.10, p < .01;Fi(2, 3) = 24.14, p < .01).
Pairwise differences be-tween the three response types were investigated us-ing planned comparisons in both the by-subject andby-items analyses (with paired t-tests used in bothcases).
The difference between participants?
meanresponse for the relation associated with the beetleexemplar, rb (M = 2.68), and their mean responsefor the neutral relation, rn (M = 1.44) was sig-nificant (ts(39) = 5.63, p < .001; ti(3) = 5.34,p = .01).
These results suggest that participantswere strongly influenced by the beetle exemplarwhen making their category judgments.
However,the difference between participants?
mean responsefor the relation associated with the plant exemplar,rp (M = 1.62), and their mean response for theneutral relation was not significant (ts(39) = 1.11,p = .27; ti(3) = 0.97, p = .40).
These re-sults suggest that participants were not influencedby the plant exemplar when judging relation like-lihood.
Since the beetle and plant categories haveidentical abstract structure, these results suggest thatother factors (such as the animacy of a concept or therole it plays in the relation) are important to interpre-tation.The data from all 13 items were also analysedtaken together.
To investigate possible effects of cat-93egory similarity, a repeated measures ANOVA withbeetle category and response relation taken as withinsubject factors and subject taken as a random fac-tor was undertaken.
There was a significant effectof the category that the beetle exemplar belonged toon participants?
responses for the three relations (theinteraction between beetle category and response re-lation was significant; F (6, 39) = 26.83, p < .01.Planned pairwise comparisons (paired t-tests) wereconducted to investigate how ratings for the cor-rect relation (i.e.
the relation consistent with train-ing) differed for the ratings for the other two rela-tions.
For Bcat1, Bcat2 and Bcat3, the ratings forthe relation consistent with learning was higher thanthe two alternative relations (p < .01 in all cases).However, for the Bcat4 items, there was no evi-dence that participants we more likely to rate Re-lation 1 (M = 2.09) higher than either Relation 2(M = 1.97; t(39) = 0.54, p = .59) or Relation3 (M = 1.91; t(39) = 0.69, p > .50).
Thoughthe difference is in the direction predicted by Bcat4?ssimilarity to Bcat1, there is no evidence that partici-pants made use of Bcat4?s similarity to Bcat1 whenrating relation likelihood for Bcat4.In summary, the results suggest that participantswere capable of learning the training items.
Partici-pants appeared to be influenced by the beetle exem-plar but not the plant exemplar.
There was some evi-dence that conceptual similarity played a role in par-ticipants?
judgments of relation likelihood for Bcat4exemplars (e.g.
the responses for item 19) but overall Bcat4 exemplars this effect was not significant.2.2.3 Performance on the noun-nouncompound transfer stageIn the noun-noun compound transfer stage, eachparticipant rated relation likelihood for each of the16 possible noun-noun compounds that could beformed from combinations of the beetle and plantcategory names.
Category name order was a be-tween subject factor: half of the participants saw thecompounds with beetle in the modifier position andplant in the head position whilst the other half ofparticipants saw the reverse.
First of all, we wereinterested in whether or not the training on exem-plar items would transfer to noun-noun compounds.Another question of interest is whether or not par-ticipants?
responses would be affected by the orderin which the categories were presented.
For exam-ple, perhaps it is the concept in the modifier positionthat is most influential in determining the likelihoodof different relations for a compound.
Alternativelyperhaps it is the concept in the head position that ismost influential.To answer such questions a 4?4?3?2 repeatedmeasures ANOVA with beetle category, plant cate-gory and response relation as within subject factorsand category label ordering as a between subject fac-tor was used to analyze the data.
The interactionbetween beetle category and response relation wassignificant (F (6, 38) = 59.79, p < .001).
There-fore, the beetle category present in the compoundtended to influence participants?
relation selections.The interaction between plant category and responserelation was weaker, but still significant (F (6, 38) =5.35, p < 0.01).
Therefore, the plant categorypresent in the compound tended to influence partic-ipants?
relation selections.
These results answer thefirst question above; training on exemplar items wastransferred to the noun-noun compounds.
However,there were no other significant interactions found.
Inparticular, the interaction between category order-ing, beetle category and response relation was notsignificant (F (6, 38) = 1.82, p = .09).
In otherwords, there is no evidence that the influence of bee-tle category on participants?
relation selections whenthe beetle was in the modifier position differed fromthe influence of beetle category on participants?
rela-tion selections when the beetle was in the head-nounposition.
Similarly, the interaction between noun or-dering, plant category and response relation was notsignificant (F (6, 38) = 0.68, p = .67); there is noevidence that the influence of the plant category onrelation selection differed depending on the locationof the plant category in the compound.Planned pairwise comparisons (paired t-tests)were used to investigate the significant interactionsfurther: for Bcat1, Bcat2 and Bcat3, the ratingsfor the relation consistent with learning was sig-nificantly higher than the two alternative relations(p < .001 in all cases).
However, for Bcat4, therewere no significant differences between the ratingsfor the three relations (p > .31 for each of the threecomparisons).
For the plants, however, the only sig-nificant differences were between the response forRelation 1 and Relation 2 for Pcat2 (t(39) = 2.12,94p = .041) and between Relation 2 and Relation 3 forPcat2 (t(39) = 3.08, p = .004), although the dif-ferences for Pcat1 and Pcat3 are also in the expecteddirection.In summary, the results of the noun-noun com-pound stage of the experiment show that partici-pants?
learning of the relations and their associa-tions with beetle and plant categories during trainingtransferred to a task involving noun-noun compoundinterpretation.
This is important as it demonstrateshow the interpretation of compounds can be derivedfrom information about how concept exemplars tendto co-occur together.2.3 Modelling relation selectionOne possible hypothesis about how people decideon likely relations for a compound is that the men-tion of the two lexemes in the compound activatesstored memory traces (i.e.
exemplars) of the con-cepts denoted by those lexemes.
Exemplars differin how typical they are for particular conceptual cat-egories and we would expect the likelihood of anexemplar?s activation to be in proportion to its typ-icality for the categories named in the compound.As concept instances usually do not happen in isola-tion but rather in the context of other concepts, thisnaturally results in extensional relational informa-tion about activated exemplars also becoming acti-vated.
This activated relational information is thenavailable to form a basis for determining the likelyrelation or relations for the compound.
A strengthof this hypothesis is that it incorporates both inten-sional information about concepts?
features (in theform of concept typicality) and also extrinsic, dis-tributional information about how concepts tend tocombine (in the form of relational information asso-ciated with activated exemplars).
In this section, wepresent a model instantiating this hybrid approach.The hypothesis proposed above assumes that ex-tensional information about relations is associatedwith exemplars in memory.
In the context of ourexperiment, the extensional, relational informationabout beetle and plant exemplars participants held inmemory is revealed in how they rated relational like-lihood during the exemplar transfer stage of the ex-1This is not significant if Bonferroni correction is used tocontrol the familywise Type I error rate amongst the multiplecomparisonsperiment.
For each of the 13 beetle and plant exem-plars, we therefore assume that the average ratingsfor each of the relations describes our participants?knowledge about how exemplars combine with otherexemplars.
Also, we can regard the three relationlikelihood ratings as being a 3-dimensional vector.Given that category ordering did not appear to havean effect on participants?
responses in the compoundtransfer phase of the experiment, we can calculatethe relation vector ~rB,P for the novel compounds ?BP ?
or ?P B?
as~rB,P =?e?U(typ(eb, B) + typ(ep, P ))?
?
~re?e?U(typ(eb, B) + typ(ep, P ))?where e denotes one of the 13 beetle-plant ex-emplar items rated in the exemplar transfer stage,typ(eb, B) denotes the typicality of the beetle ex-emplar present in item e in beetle category B andtyp(ep, P ) denotes the typicality of the plant exem-plar present in item e in plant category P .
U isthe set of 13 beetle-plant exemplar pairs and ?
is amagnification parameter to be estimated empiricallywhich describes the relative importance of exemplartypicality.In this model, we require a measure of how typicalof a conceptual category an exemplar is (i.e.
a mea-sure of how good a member of a category a partic-ular category instance is).
In our model, we use theGeneralized Context Model (GCM) to derive mea-sures of exemplar typicality.
The GCM is a success-ful model of category learning that implements an anexemplar-based account of how people make judg-ments of category membership in a category learn-ing task.
The GCM computes the probability Pr ofan exemplar e belonging in a category C as a func-tion of pairwise exemplar similarity according to:Pr(e, C) =?i?Csim(e, i)?i?Usim(e, i)where U denotes the set of all exemplars in mem-ory and sim(e, i) is a measure of similarity betweenexemplars e and i. Similarity between exemplars isin turn defined as a negative-exponential transforma-95tion of distance:sim(i, j) = e?cdist(i,j) (1)where c is a free parameter, corresponding to howquickly similarity between the exemplars diminishesas a function of their distance.
The distance betweentwo exemplars is usually computed as the city-blockmetric summed over the dimensions of the exem-plars, with each term weighted by empirically esti-mated weighting parameters constrained to sum toone.
According to the GCM, the probability thata given exemplar belongs to a given category in-creases as the average similarity between the exem-plar and the exemplars of the category increases; inother words, as it becomes a more typical memberof the category.
In our model, we use the proba-bility scores produced by the GCM as a means forcomputing concept typicality (although other meth-ods for measuring typicality could have been used).We compared the relation vector outputted by themodel for the 16 possible compounds to the rela-tion vectors derived from participants?
ratings in thecompound transfer phase of the experiment.
Theagreement between the model and the data was highacross the three relations (for Relation 1, r = 0.84,p < 0.01; for Relation 2, r = 0.90, p < 0.01; forRelation 3, r = 0.87, p < 0.01), using only one freeparameter, ?, to fit the data2.3 ConclusionsThe empirical findings we have described in this pa-per have several important implications.
Firstly, thefindings have implications for relation-based theo-ries.
In particular, the finding that only beetle exem-plars tended to influence relation selection suggestthat factors other than relation frequency are rele-vant to the interpretation process (since the beetleand plants in our experiment were identical in theirdegree of association with relations).
Complex inter-actions between concepts and relations (e.g.
agencyin the EATS(AGENT,OBJECT) relation) is informa-tion that is not possible to capture using a taxonomicapproach to relation meaning.Secondly, the fact that participants could learn toidentify the relations between exemplars and also2In the GCM, c was set equal to 1 and the three dimensionalweights in the distance calculation were set equal to 1/3transfer that knowledge to a task involving com-pounds has implications for concept-based theoriesof compound comprehension.
No concept-basedtheory of conceptual combination has ever adoptedan exemplar approach to concept meaning; mod-els based on concept-focused theories tend to rep-resent concepts as frames or lists of predicates.
Ourapproach suggests an exemplar representation is aviable alternative.
Also, distributional knowledgeabout relations forms a natural component of an ex-emplar representation of concepts, as different con-cept instances will occur with instances of other con-cepts with varying degrees of frequency.
Given thesuccess of our model, assuming an exemplar repre-sentation of concept semantics would seen to offer anatural way of incorporating both information aboutconcept features and information about relation dis-tribution into a single theory.ReferencesG.
Cannon.
1987.
Historical change and English wordformation.
New York: Lang.E.
V. Clark and B.J.
Barron.
1988.
A thrower-button ora button-thrower?
Children?s judgments of grammati-cal and ungrammatical compound nouns.
Linguistics,26:3?19.F.
J. Costello & M.T.
Keane.
2000.
Efficient creativity:Constraint guided conceptual combination.. CognitiveScience, 24(2):299?349.C.
L. Gagne?
and E.J.
Shoben.
1997.
Influence of the-matic relations on the comprehension of modifier nouncombinations.
Journal of Experimental Psychology:Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 23:71?78.S.
N. Kim and T. Baldwin.
2005.
Automatic Interpreta-tion of Noun Compounds Using WordNet Similarity.Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 3651:945?956.J.
N. Levi.
1978.
The Syntax and Semantics of ComplexNominals.
New York: Academic Press.D.
L. Medin & M.M.
Schaffer.
1978.
Context the-ory of classification learning.
Psychological Review,85:207?238.R.
N. Nosofsky.
1984.
Choice, similarity, and the con-text theory of classification.. Journal of Experimen-tal Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition,10(1):104?114.E.
J. Wisniewski 1997.
When concepts combine.
Psy-chonomic Bulletin & Review, 4(2):167?183.96
