Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluations (SemEval-2007), pages 402?405,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsUNN-WePS: Web Person Search using co-Present Namesand Lexical ChainsJeremy EllmanNorthumbria UniversityPandon BuildingNewcastle upon TyneUKJeremy.
Ellman @unn.ac.ukGary EmeryNorthumbria UniversityPandon BuildingNewcastle upon TyneUKGary.Emery@unn.ac.ukAbstractWe describe a system, UNN-WePS foridentifying individuals from web pages us-ing data from Semeval Task 13.
Our sys-tem is based on using co-presence of per-son names to form seed clusters.
These arethen extended with pages that are deemedconceptually similar based on a lexicalchaining analysis computed using Roget?sthesaurus.
Finally, a single link hierarchicalagglomerative clustering algorithm mergesthe enhanced clusters for individual entityrecognition.
UNN-WePS achieved an aver-age purity of 0.6, and inverse purity of 0.73.1 IntroductionGuha and Garg (2004) report that approximately4% of internet searches are to locate named indi-viduals.
Yet, many people share the same namewith for example 157630 individuals in the UKsharing the most common name ?David Jones?
(UK statistics cited by Ash 2006).
Consequentlyidentifying web pages on specific individuals is asignificant problem that will grow as everyone ac-quires a web presence.There are several proposed approaches to identi-fying which individuals correspond to which webpages.
For example, Bollegala et al (2007) pro-pose augmenting queries in the style of relevancefeedback (Salton and Buckley 1990), Kalashnikov(2007) treat Web Person Search (WePS) as a dis-ambiguation problem whose objective is to distin-guish individuals, whilst Wan et al (2005) seeWePS as a clustering problem.WePS has both similarities and differences toword sense disambiguation (WSD).
Both seek toclassify instances of usage, but in WSD the senseinventory is fixed.
WSD then is more amenable toa classification solution where a system can be ef-fectively trained using learning algorithms.
InWePS we do not know from the outset how manyindividuals our pages correspond to.
Consequentlywe took the view that WePS is better seen as aclustering rather than a classification problem.1.1 AmbiguityAmbiguity is a common feature of WePS andWSD.
There are multiple types of ambiguity in therelation between person names and entities thatconfound overly simple approaches.
Firstly, notethat some first names are also last names (Les Paul,Michael Howard), and that some last names alsooccur as given names (Woodrow Wilson Guthrie,Martin Luther King).
Consequently, an overlysimple name parser will easily be confused.
Sec-ondly many last names are also place names (JackLondon, William Manchester).
Thus, if a last nameis not found in the names database, but is found inthe gazetteer, a name can be confused with a loca-tion.
Finally, we come to toponym ambiguity,where the name of a place may correspond to sev-eral locations.
(For example, there are thirteenplaces called Manchester, multiple Londons,Washingtons etc.)
Resolving toponyms is a re-search problem itself (Leidner, 2004).1.2 StatisticsStatistics are a further relation between WePS andWSD.
We expect Zipf?s law (e.g.
Adamic andHuberman 2002) to apply to the relation between402web pages and individuals, meaning that relativefrequency and rank form a harmonic series.
Inother words some people will be associated withmany pages and increasingly more will be linkedto fewer.
This has a strong link to disambiguation,where an inaccurate algorithm may give inferiorperformance to the strategy of always selecting themost frequent sense.Now if we consider the types of data that distin-guish individuals, we might find colleagues,friends, and family mentioned in web pages, inaddition to locations, dates, and topics of interest.Of these, names are particularly useful, and wedefine co-present names as names found in a webpage in addition to the name for which we aresearching.Names are statistically useful, even thoughmany people share the same name.
For examplethere are 7640 individuals in the UK (for example)that share the most popular female name ?MargaretSmith?.
Given the population of the UK is ap-proximately 60 million, the probability of even themost common female name in the UK occurringrandomly is 1.27+10-4 (of course not all the indi-viduals have web pages).Now, Semeval WePS pages (Artiles 2007) havebeen retrieved in response to a search for onename.
Often such web pages will contain addi-tional names.
The probability that a web page willcontain two names corresponding to two differentindividuals is quite low (~ca 7x10-8).
Conse-quently co-present names form indicators of anindividual?s identity.
These give accurate seedpoints, which are critical to the success of manyclustering algorithms such as k-means (Jain et al1999)1.3 Lexical Chain Text SimilarityNot all WePS pages contain multiple names, oreven content in any form.
Consequently we need todistinguish between pages that are similar in mean-ing to a page already in a seed cluster, those thatrefer to separate entities, and those to be discardedThis was done by comparing the conceptualsimilarity of the WePS pages using Roget?s thesau-rus as the conceptual inventory.
The approach wasdescribed in Ellman (2000), where lexical chainsare identified from each document using Roget'sthesaurus.
These chains are then unrolled to yieldan attribute value vector of concepts where thevalues are given by repetition, type of thesauralrelation found, and textual cohesion.
Thus, we arenot simply indexing by thesaural categories.Vectors corresponding to different documentscan be compared to give a measure of conceptualsimilarity.
Roget?s thesaurus typically contains onethousand sense entries divided by part of speechusage, giving a total of 6400 entries.
Such vectorsmay be compared using many algorithms, althougha nearest neighbor algorithm was implemented inEllman (2000).1.4 One Sense Per DiscourseUNN-WePS was based on a deliberate strategythat the success of an active disambiguationmethod needed to exceed its overall error rate inorder to improve baseline performance.
As such,simple methods that improved overall successmodestly were preferred to complex ones that didnot.
Consequently, to reduce the search space, weused the ?one sense per discourse?
heuristic (Galeet al 1992).
This assumes that one web pagewould not refer to two different individuals thatshare a name.2 System DescriptionUNN-WePS was made up of three components,comprising modules to:1.
Create seed clusters that associated fileswith person names other than those beingsearched for.2.
Match similarity of unallocated documentsto micro clusters using lexical chains de-rived from Roget?s thesaurus.3.
Identify entities using single link agglom-erative clustering algorithm.In detail, a part of speech tagger (Coburn et al2007) was used to identify sequences of propernouns.
Person names were identified from thesesequences using the following simple names?grammar?
coupled with data from the US Census(1990).Name = [Title*][Initials | 1st name]+[2nd name]+Figure 1: Regular Expression Name SyntaxWe also used a gazetteer to forms seed clustersusing data from the World Gazetteer (2007).
Thisdid not form part of the submitted system.403In the second step, conceptual similarity was de-termined using the method and tool described inEllman (2000).
Documents not allocated to seedclusters, were compared for conceptual similarityto all other documents.
If similar to a document ina seed cluster, the unallocated document was in-serted into the seed cluster.
If neither document norone to which it was similar too were in a seed clus-ter, they were formed into a new seed cluster.
Fi-nally if document has 'meaningful' content, but isnot conceptually similar to any other it is stored ina singleton seed cluster otherwise, it is discarded.In the final step, seed clusters were sorted bysize and merged using a single link hierarchicalagglomerative clustering algorithm to identify enti-ties (Jain et al 1999).
The use of a single linkmeans that a document can only be associated withone entity, which conforms to the ?one sense perdiscourse?
heuristic.Further details of the UNN-WePS algorithm aregiven in figure 2 below.3 ResultsUNN-WePS achieved an average purity of 0.6, andinverse purity of 0.73 in Semeval Task 13, achiev-ing seventh position out of sixteen competing sys-tems (Artiles et al 2007).
However there was con-siderable variance in UNN-WePS results as shownin graph 1 below.Purity Vs Name00.20.40.60.81Martha_EdwardsJames_MoreheadViolet_HowardJames_CurranKaren_PetersonThomas_KirkMark_JohnsonStephen_ClarkAlvin_CooperHarry_HughesArthur_MorganJude_BrownJerry_HobbsChris_BrockettSharon_GoldwaterP(submitted) P(no-chain) P (places-chainer)FOREACH Person_Name1.
TAG raw html Files with Part of Speech.2.
IDENTIFY Generic Document Profiles usinglexical chains in html Files.3.
CONSTRUCT table T to associate personnames  with Files.a.
FOREACH File in Person_Namei.
IDENTIFY Names in Fileii.
FOREACH Name in NamesIF Name ?
Person_NameSTORE Name, File in T4.
CREATE Seed clusters by inverting T togive files that are associated by co-present names5.
MATCH Similarity of unallocated docu-ments to seed clustersa.
FOREACH unallocated document DIF similar to a document in cluster CINSERT D into CELSE IF similar to a non-clustereddocument D?CREATE  D, D?
as new cluster C?ELSE IF CONTAINS D > 200 wordsCREATE D as new cluster C?
?ELSE DISCARD D6.
IDENTIFY entities using single link ag-glomerative clustering algorithm overseed clusters.Graph 1: UNN-WePS purity performanceGraph 1 shows the purity scores for UNN-WePSon the Semeval 13 test data on three conditions: (1)as submitted (solid line), (2) using the gazetteer(dashed line), and (3) without the lexical chainbased similarity matching (dotted line).Note although the purity is lower when similar-ity matching is included the number of discardeddocuments is approximately halved.An examination of the data suggests that whereperformance was especially poor it was due to ge-nealogical data.
Firstly this contains multiple indi-viduals sharing the same name violating the ?onesense per discourse?
heuristic.
Secondly genealogi-cal data includes birth and death information whichwas outside the scope of UNN-WePS.
Further-more, the large number of names confounds thestatistical utility of co-present names.4 Conclusion and Future WorkWe have described a system, UNN-WePS that dis-ambiguates individuals in web pages as requiredfor Semeval task 13 (Artiles et al 2007).UNN-WePS was composed of three modules.The first formed seed clusters based on names pre-sent in web pages other than the individual forwhom we are searching.
The second used a lexicalFigure 2: UNN-WePS Algorithm404chain based similarity measure to associates re-maining files with clusters, whilst the third joinedthe clusters to identify identities using a single linkhierarchical algorithm.UNN-WePS performed surprisingly well con-sidering the simplicity of its basic seeding algo-rithm.
The use however of the ?one sense per dis-course?
heuristic was flawed.
Names do re-occuracross generations in families.Genealogy is a popular Internet pastime, andweb pages containing genealogy data frequentlyrefer to multiple individuals that share a name atdifferent time periods.
As UNN-WePS did not ac-count for time, this could not be detected.
Further-more, the large number of names in on-line genea-logical data does lead to spurious associations.As WePS was time limited, several extensionsand refinements were envisaged, but not executed.Firstly, as described, the world gazetteer (2007)did not lead to performance improvements.
Wespeculate therefore the disambiguation effect fromusing place names was exceeded by the ambiguityintroduced by using them blindly.
We note espe-cially the inference between unidentified names (orstreet names, or building names) being interpretedas place data.A further system deficiency was the lack of rec-ognition of date data.
This is essential to differenti-ate between identically named individuals in ge-nealogical data.Finally, we are currently experimenting with dif-ferent clustering algorithms using the CLUTOtoolkit (Karypis 2002) to improve on UNN-WePSbaseline performance.ReferencesAdamic L.A. and Huberman B.A., 2002 Zipf's law andthe Internet, Glottometrics 3, 2002, 143-150Artiles, J., Gonzalo, J. and Sekine, S. (2007).The SemEval-2007 WePS Evaluation: Establishing abenchmark for the Web People Search Task.
In Pro-ceedings of Semeval 2007, Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Ash, Russell 2006 The top 10 of Everything Hamlyn,Palazzo Bath UKBollegala, Danushka, Matsuo  Yutaka Ishizuka MitsuruDisambiguating Personal Names on the Web usingAutomatically Extracted Key Phrases Proc.
ECAI2006, pp.553-557, Trento, Italy (2006.8)Coburn A, Ceglowski M, and Cuadrado J 2007Lingua::EN::Tagger, a Perl part-of-speech taggerfor English text.
http://search.cpan.org/~acoburn/Lingua-EN-Tagger-0.13/Ellman, Jeremy.
2000 Using Roget?s Thesaurus to De-termine the Similarity of Texts.
PhD thesis, Univer-sity of Sunderland [Available athttp://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/ellman00using.html ]Gale, W., Church, K., and Yarowsky, D. (1992).
Onesense per discourse.
In Proceedings of the FourthDARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop,pages 233--237.Guha R. & Garg A. Disambiguating People in Search.Stanford University, 2004Jain, A. K., Murty, M. N., and Flynn, P. J.
1999.
Dataclustering: a review.
ACM Comput.
Surv.
31, 3 (Sep.1999), 264-323Karypis G.  2002.
CLUTO: A clustering toolkit.
Techni-cal Report 02-017, University of Minnesota.
Avail-able at: http://wwwusers.cs.umn.edu/~karypis/cluto/.Leidner, Jochen L. (2004).
Toponym Resolution in Text:"Which Sheffield is it?"
in proc.
27th Annual Interna-tional ACM SIGIR Conference (SIGIR 2004), Shef-field, UK.Navigli, Roberto 2006.
Meaningful clustering of senseshelps boost word sense disambiguation performance.In Proc.
ACL (Sydney, Australia, July 17 - 18, 2006).Salton and Buckley 1990 Improving Retrieval Perform-ance by Relevance Feedback JASIS 41(4) pp288-297US Census 1990 http://www.census.gov/genealogy/names/names_files.html accessed 17thApril 2007Wan, X., Gao, J., Li, M., and Ding, B.
2005.
Personresolution in person search results: WebHawk.
inProc.
CIKM '05.
ACM Press, New York, NYWorld Gazetteer 2007 http://world-gazetteer.com/ ac-cessed 17th April 2007405
