BioNLP 2007: Biological, translational, and clinical language processing, pages 153?160,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsWhat?s in a gene name?Automated refinement of gene name dictionariesJo?rg HakenbergBioinformatics Group, Biotechnological CentreTechnische Universita?t Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germanyhakenberg@informatik.hu-berlin.deAbstractMany approaches for named entity recogni-tion rely on dictionaries gathered from cu-rated databases (such as Entrez Gene forgene names.)
Strategies for matching entriesin a dictionary against arbitrary text use ei-ther inexact string matching that allows forknown deviations, dictionaries enriched ac-cording to some observed rules, or a com-bination of both.
Such refined dictionar-ies cover potential structural, lexical, ortho-graphical, or morphological variations.
Inthis paper, we present an approach to au-tomatically analyze dictionaries to discoverhow names are composed and which varia-tions typically occur.
This knowledge canbe constructed by looking at single entries(names and synonyms for one gene), andthen be transferred to entries that show simi-lar patterns in one or more synonyms.
Forinstance, knowledge about words that arefrequently missing in (or added to) a name(?antigen?, ?protein?, ?human?)
could au-tomatically be extracted from dictionaries.This paper should be seen as a vision paper,though we implemented most of the ideaspresented and show results for the task ofgene name recognition.
The automaticallyextracted name composition rules can eas-ily be included in existing approaches, andprovide valuable insights into the biomedi-cal sub-language.1 IntroductionRecognition of named entities (NER), such as namesreferring to genes and proteins, forms a major build-ing block for text mining systems.
Especially inthe life sciences, a large amount of different entitytypes and their instances exist.
Two basic strategiesfor NER are classification- and dictionary-based ap-proaches.
Classifiers learn (or are given) models todecide whether a sequence of tokens refers to anentity or not.
Such decisions are based on variousforms of input, for instance, tokens and their se-quence in a sentence, part-of-speech tags, charac-teristic suffixes, and trigger keywords1 (Hakenberget al, 2005).
Models can be learned from a giventraining sample.
Dictionary-based approaches relyon curated word lists containing (all known) repre-sentatives of an entity type.
Manual or automatedrefinement of the dictionary and inexact matchingstrategies allow to cover a broad spectrum of namevariations (Hanisch et al, 2005).
Classification-based approaches have proven to be very robust to-wards unseen tokens and names, because they alsoincorporate knowledge on names of the given classin general1 (Crim et al, 2005).
Dictionaries, onthe other hand, reflect the knowledge about an en-tity class at a given time, and such approaches can-not find instances unknown to them.
However, themain advantage of dictionary-based NER is that theybring the explicit possibility to map recognized en-tities to the source of the entries (most times, adatabase.)
This alleviates the task of named entity1For example, a protein name often is/has a proper noun;many enzymes end with ??ase?
; ?domain of?
is often followedby a protein name.153identification (NEI) that is needed to annotate textsproperly or link text-mined facts to database entries.In this paper, we want to concentrate ondictionary-based approaches and present ideas ofhow these could be automatically refined and en-riched.
In such a setting, named entity recognitionfunctions as a method of ?spotting?
entities in a text,after which further identification (disambiguation)is needed.
NER components thus should guaranteevery high recall rates with a reasonable precision.NEI then refines the predictions of NER, eliminat-ing false positive annotations and identifying names.That such a setup would perform quite well is re-flected, for example, in a study presented by Xu etal.
(2007).
They showed that sophisticated disam-biguation strategies currently yield up to 93.9% pre-cision (for mouse genes; yeast: 89.5%, fly: 77.8%.
)Participants in the BioCreAtIvE 2 challenge showedsimilar values for human genes (up to 84.1% preci-sion, 87.5% recall, or 81.1% F1), see Morgan andHirschman (2007) for a summary.Hand-coded rules for creating spelling variationshave been proposed before, see section on RelatedWork.
Such rules are applied to synonyms to gen-erate morphological and orthographical variations(?Fas ligand??
?Fas ligands?
and ?Ifn gamma???Ifn-?
?, respectively).
In the same manner, systemsuse known patterns for structural changes of namesand mappings for lexical variations to enrich exist-ing dictionaries (?CD95R?
?
?receptor of CD95?and ?gastric alcohol dehydrogenase?
?
?stomachalcohol dehydrogenase?).
Our research question inthis paper is, how such rules can be learned automat-ically from dictionaries that contain entries of thesame entity class with multiple, typical synonymseach.
Learning about the composition of namescomes down to an analysis of known names.
Ahuman, given the same task, would look through alot of examples to derive term formation patterns.Questions to ask are:?
What are frequent orthographical and morpho-logical variations??
Which parts of a name get abbreviated??
How are abbreviations formed??
Which identical abbreviations can be observedin multiple names??
In which way can a name structurally and lexi-cally change??
Which are the parts of a name that can be ex-changed with other terms or skipped entirely??
Which are the important parts of a name, whichare additional descriptive elements?In this paper, we demonstrate methods to analyzenames in order to find the semantically importantparts.
We map these parts to potential syntactic vari-ations thereof observed within a name and its syn-onyms.
We assess the frequency of such mappings(exchange of tokens, different ordering of tokens,etc.)
and transfer this knowledge to all other namesin the same dictionary.
In this setup, understandinga name results in a structured decomposition of thename.
Such decompositions provide knowledge onhow to find (and identify) the name in arbitrary text,as they give insights into its mandatory, unique, andambiguous2 parts.This paper should be seen as a vision paper,though we implemented most of the ideas presentedherein and show first results.
We first explain theidea behind learning name composition rules, mo-tivated by manual curation as described in RelatedWork.
We then explain the basic techniques neededfor our analysis.
We show how single entries (aname and all its synonyms) can be analyzed to findcomposition rules, and how these can be transferredto other entries.
Preliminary results using some ofthe ideas presented here are also given.
We con-clude this paper with a discussion of the experimen-tal methodology and an outlook.1.1 Related WorkCurrent survey articles cover the spectrum of re-cent methods and results for biomedical named en-tity recognition and identification (Cohen and Hersh,2005; Leser and Hakenberg, 2005).
A recent as-sessment of named entity recognition and identifi-cation was done during the BioCreAtIvE 2 evalua-tion3.
Official results will be available in April 2007.Naturally, a number of systems proposed before arehighly related to the method presented in this paper.Hanisch et al (2005) proposed the ProMiner systemto recognize and identify protein names in text.
Theyobserved that the ordering of tokens in a name oc-cur quite frequently, but do not change the seman-2The latter two as compared to the whole dictionary.3See http://biocreative.sourceforge.net .154tics of the overall name.
They presented a model forprotein names, partitioning tokens into token classesaccording to their semantic significance: modifiers(?receptor?
), specifiers (?alpha?
), non-descriptivetokens (?fragment?
), standard tokens (?TNF?
), pluscommon English words and interpunctuation.
Toevaluate the significance of tokens, they count theirrespective frequencies in a dictionary.
Hanisch et alextract a dictionary using various knowledge source(HGNC etc.)
and expand and prune it afterwards.Expansion and pruning are based on manually de-fined rules (separating numbers and words, expand-ing known unambiguous synonyms with known syn-onyms, applying curation lists maintained by biolog-ical experts, predefined regular expressions).
The fi-nal matching procedure found names by comparing(expanded) tokens and their classes to arbitrary text,where some token classes were mandatory for theidentification and others could be missing.
ProMineryielded results between 78 and 90% F1-measure onthe BioCreAtIvE 1 (Task 1B), depending on theorganism-specific sub-task.
The highest recall wasfound to be 84.1% for fly, 81.4% for mouse, and84.8% for yeast genes.We used a similar method, relying entirely onmanually defined rules for name variations, for theBioCreAtIvE 2 GN task (Hakenberg et al, 2007).We expanded the dictionary applying these rules toevery synonym (treating abbreviations and spelled-out names slightly different).
This yielded a recall of92.7 and 87.5% on the training and test sets, respec-tively (F1: 81.1%).
In the aftermath of BioCreAtIvE2, we now try to improve this high recall values fur-ther, by automatically analyzing the whole dictio-nary of gene names instead of manually composinguseful rules in a trial?and?error approach.2 MethodsWe first want to present the overall idea of learningname composition rules, guided by specific exam-ples.
We first show how comparison of synonymsknown for one gene name yields insights into the?meaning?
of the gene, and produces rules for struc-tural and lexical variations of its name(s).
After-wards, we explain how such rules can be exchangedbetween different genes and add to the understand-ing of each genes ?meaning.
?2.1 TechniquesWe apply several techniques to the analysis ofnames.
To detect abbreviations by pairwise compar-ison of synonyms, we use the algorithm proposed bySchwartz and Hearst (2003) as the core component4.We changed some of the details so that, for instance,the first letter of the potential abbreviation has tomatch the first letter of the proposed long form.
Weperform the detection of abbreviations not only onwhole synonyms, but also on parts of each name(like for ?TNF-alpha stimulated ABC protein?
), sothat this property of Schwartz and Hearst?s algo-rithm (S&H) is recovered.
A trivial adaptation alsoreveals which parts of an abbreviation (one or morecharacters) map to which parts of the long form (onetoken, one partial token.)
As S&H allows for miss-ing tokens in the long form, we can also add the pos-sibility for (few) characters in the abbreviation notbeing reflected in the long form.To detect inexact matches (that is, slight vari-ations in morphology or orthography), we use anadaptation of the biological sequence alignment al-gorithm (Needleman and Wunsch, 1970).
Using thecomputed alignment score, this yields an immediatequantification of the similarity of two terms.We compare the sequence of identified name parts(parts of a name where a mapping from this part toa part of the other synonym exists) in order to findparts that can be skipped or exchanged with eachother.
In addition, this yields insights into potentialpermuations of all parts of a name, and shows wherecertain parts typically do or do not occur.2.2 RepresentationRepresentation of information extracted by parsingi) a synonym or ii) all synonyms of a gene becomesa crucial basic part of our approach.
Concepts haveto be found in a name, for instance,?
substance: ?serotonin?,?
type: ?receptor?,?
function: ?transcription factor?, or?
family-member: ?family-member number 6?.Also, for these concepts, rules have to be learnedthat match them against text (or vice versa): an ?R?hints on a receptor, a ?6?
at the end of a name (for in-stance, a noun phrase) hints on a family-member or4The original algorithm decides whether a given short formcan be explained by a given long form.155Type Example token Example nameDescriptor antigen, ligand, inhibitor P-30 antigenModifier factor, family member, type BRG1-associated factorSpecifier alpha, IX, A TNF alphaSource d, HUMAN, p dHNF-4Table 1: Types of tokens that frequently occur in gene names.
Also see Hanisch et al (2005), though they introduce differentconventions.type.
We rely on semantic types, which are definedusing descriptions automatically identified from thesyntax (lists of variations), rather than pure syntac-tical ones.
This helps during classification of identi-fied concepts: a syntactical concept would map ?s?to ?serotonin?
; but additionally, we need to expressthat the given gene demands any arbitrary form ofa reference to a substance, which is serotonin, in itsname.
Whether this occurs as the substance?s nameitself, an abbreviation, or synonym of the substance,and at which position in a text5, then becomes lessimportant concerning the matching strategy.
Table 1sums up some of the known types of tokens and ex-amples we want to distinguish.
Note that the propertype definition cannot automatically be assigned toa concept.
Concepts can be identified as belong-ing to the same type only because they share certainproperties (can be skipped, is a numerical entity, is amandatory tokens that occurs at the end of a name.
)In Table 1, the descriptors ?antigen?
and ?ligand?,for instance, appear to be of the same type, but anal-ysis will reveal that while the mention of ?antigen?in a name is skipped frequently, ?ligand?
representsa mandatory concept in many synonyms.For the remainder of this paper, we subsequentlybreak down a gene into the basic concepts describedin one or more of its name.
First, a gene is iden-tified by a set of names (synonyms).
Second, eachname consists of multiple parts; proper separationand identification is a crucial step.
Third, each partof a name then represents a certain concept that istypical for the gene.
A gene is defined by all identi-fied concepts.
While a gene name part stores the in-formation on where and if it occurs in the sequenceof parts that ultimately form the (or rather a) nameof the gene, concepts store information about vari-ations.
Knowledge about name parts and conceptsis then transferred within each respective level only.Each such potential transfer we call a composition5Maybe within a somewhat confined neighborhood, for in-stance, in the current paragraph or in the abstract of the text.rule.
An example, which we will also discuss inthe next section, is the gene FASLG.
Is has multiplesynonyms, ?FASLG?
being one of those.
This namecan be separated into the parts ?FAS?
and ?LG?.
Thefirst part has the concept ?FAS?, which can appearin the variations ?Fas?, ?fas?, or ?CD95?, as we willsee later; the second part has the concept ?LG?, apossible variation is ?ligand?
:FASLGFASFASFasCD95fasLGLligandLGFAS  LG(from top to bottom, levels depict the name, parts,concepts, and variations of each concept.
)2.3 Analysis of intra-gene variationsIn this section we explain how we discover conceptsand their appearances (exact tokens) within a set ofsynonyms under the assumption that they all belongto the same gene.
Basically, this means that wecan allow for more mismatches, lacking parts, or thelike, as for comparing names of different genes.Reconsider the example of the aforementionedFASLG gene (356)6.
We show the synonyms knownaccording to Entrez Gene in Table 2.
Pairwise anal-ysis of the synonyms provides insights as shown inTable 3.Recombining the extracted concepts and usingdifferent variations for either, we can achieve somenew potential names, for instance, FasL (capitaliza-tion) and CD95 ligand (replaced ?L?
with identified6In the following, we will always show each gene?s officialsymbol first and then known synonyms.
Numbers in bracketsrefer to Entrez Gene IDs.156Apoptosis antigen ligand APTL apoptosis (APO-1) antigen ligand 1Apoptosis (APO-1) ligand 1 APT1LG1 FAS antigen ligandApoptosis ligand CD178 Fas ligand (TNF superfamily, member 6)CD95L FASL TNFL6 HUMANfas ligand FASLG TNFSF6FAS ligand TNFL6 Tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 6Table 2: Synonyms of the FASLG gene that we use in our examples.Synonyms Composition rule learned No.FASL + FAS ligand L ?
ligand 1FASLG + FAS ligand LG ?
ligand 2FAS ligand + fas ligand FAS ?
fas 3FASL + CD95L FAS ?
CD95 4Tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 6 + T ?
Tumor, N ?
necrosis 5a,bTNFSF6 F ?
factor, SF ?
superfamily 5c,d?member?
before a number can be left out 5eApoptosis antigen ligand + Apoptosis ligand ?antigen?
can be left out 6FAS antigen ligand + FAS ligand ?antigen?
can be left out 7Apoptosis (APO-1) ligand 1 + Apoptosis ligand ?1?
at end can be left out 8TNFL6 + TNFL6 HUMAN ?
HUMAN?
can be added to a name 9Fas ligand (TNF superfamily, member 6) + FAS ligand Fas ?
FAS 10Apoptosis ligand + APTL Apoptosis ?
APT 11Apoptosis (APO-1) ligand 1 + APT1LG1 ligand 1 ?
LG1 12Table 3: Pairwise analysis of some synonyms for FASLG and some insights gained.
Conclusions shown in the bottom part can bedrawn using insights from the first part only.
Rules like ?X can be left out?
imply that the opposite can also happen, ?X can beadded?, and vice versa.
Multiple detections of the same rule (no.
6& 7) increase its support, so the application of rules could beweighted accordingly.long form) for the FASLG gene.
In cases where nei-ther part of a name can be mapped onto parts of an-other name, then no rule should be generated: com-paring ?CD178 antigen?
to ?CD95 ligand?
shouldnot result in the variation ?CD178 ligand?.
On theother hand, after removal of ?antigen?
(rules no.
6& 7 in Table 3), ?CD178?
represents a variationof ?CD95 ligand?
(which in this case was alreadyknown from Entrez Gene.)
In the following sections,we explain the detection of different kinds of varia-tions in more detail and show examples.AbbreviationsDetecting abbreviations is a crucial initial step in ouranalyses.
Many variations are explained only acrossabbreviations and their long forms.
More important,comparing abbreviations and long forms identifiesthe parts of either name, which can then be com-pared to parts of other names.
Taking HIF1A (3091)as an example, we find the synonyms ?HIF1 al-pha?, ?HIF-1 alpha?, ?HIF-1alpha?, and ?Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha?.
Schwartz and Hearst?s al-gorithm easily reveals that ?1 alpha?, ?1alpha?, and?1A?
all map to each other; ?H?
can be mapped to?Hypoxia?, and so on.
All in all, we learned that?Hypoxia-inducible factor 1A?
could be a potentialsynonym for HIF1A.We now look at the OR1G1 gene (8390).
Con-sider two of its synonyms, ?Olfactory receptor1G1?, and ?olfactory receptor, family 1, subfamilyG, member 1?.
Comparing the official symbol withthe first synonym, it becomes clear that ?OR?
abbre-viates ?Olfactory receptor?
using S&H.
Comparingthe synonyms, we find direct correspondences be-tween both ?1?s and ?G?.
AS we are still within onegene, is is safe to assume that all in all, ?1G1?
ab-breviates ?family 1, subfamily G, member 1?.
Thisimplies that concepts stating that we are within agene family (subfamily, members) can be missing?
whereas the respective values (?1?, ?G?, ?1?)
aremandatory.Another abbreviation that commonly occurs ingene names is the (abbreviated) mention of the or-ganism (on the species level).
For example, thegene GIMAP4 (55303) has ?HIMAP4?, ?IMAP4?,?IAN1?, ?hIAN1?, and ?human immune associatednucleotide 1?
as known synonyms.
From synonyms1 and 2 we can infer that an ?H?
can be added to aname (just like ?
HUMAN?, see Table 3.)
The sameis true for ?h?
(synonyms 3 and 4.)
Comparing syn-onyms 1 or 4 to 5 leads to the conclusion that ?H?157and ?h?
both abbreviate ?human.
?Lexical variationsIn the set of synonyms for ADHFE1 (137872), wefind ?Fe-containing alcohol dehydrogenase 1?
and?alcohol dehydrogenase, iron containing, 1?.
Split-ting these synonyms into their respective parts andthen comparing both sets reveals that all but one parteach can be exactly mapped to a corresponding partin the other synonym.
From this almost exact match,we can conclude that the parts ?Fe?
and ?iron?
aresynonyms of each other, potentially representing thesame concept, and easy to confirm for a human.In the same manner, we will find that ?1B?
can besometimes expressed as ?2?, and that ?adaptor?
and?Adapter?
are orthographic variations of each other,by looking at some synonyms for AP1S2 (8905):- Adapter-related protein complex 1 sigma 1B subunit- adaptor-related protein complex 1 sigma 2 subunit- adaptor-related protein complex 1, sigma 1B subunitTo detect these two changes, we first need to mapparts to each other and then compare the namesbased on the sequence of the parts.Structural variationsChanges in the structure of a name can be deducedwhen a safe mapping between most parts of a nameexist.
For the HMMR gene (3161), we find two ev-idences for such a variation, which also lead to theconclusion that ?for?
is an optional part.
However,in our system, we would retain information concern-ing the positioning of ?for?
(at least, tendencies like?not the first?
and ?not the last?
part.
)- Receptor for hyaluronan-mediated motility- hyaluronan-mediated motility receptor- Hyaluronan mediated motility receptor- intracellular hyaluronic acid binding protein- hyaluronan-mediated motility receptor (RHAMM)Analysis of this example also finds that ?hyaluro-nan?
can start with an upper case letter (and thatthis occurs only when it is the first part of thename.
?RHAMM?
is the abbreviation for ?Recep-tor for hyaluronan-mediated motility?, as revealedby S&H.
This leads to the next conclusion, that ab-breviations can immediately follow a gene name.Descriptive elementsComparing the sequence of identified name parts(parts of a name where a mapping from this part toa part of the other synonym exists) yields dissimi-larities that result either from a dropped/added namepart, or from a lexical variation.
Consider the fol-lowing example:Fas antigen ligandFASLG}}?Inexact matching immediately identifies the map-ping from ?Fas?
to ?FAS?
; abbreviation detec-tion and/or alignment yields ?ligand?
as a longform/variation of ?LG.?
The sequence of name partsif the same in both synonyms, with an added ?anti-gen?
in the first synonym.
An extracted compositionrule could thus be that ?antigen?
is of additional, de-scriptive value only, and can be skipped.
Knowingthis, the first synonym should also match the strings?Fas ligand?
and ?FAS ligand?
(in fact, both should.
)Another example is ZG24P (259291) with its syn-onym ?uncharacterized gastric protein ZG24P?.
Asthe official symbol clearly is an abbreviation (singleword, upper case letters, numbers) and matches thelast part of the synonym, we can assume that the firstpart is either another synonym or a mere descriptiveelement that explains the real gene name.
Indeed,patterns like ?uncharacterized ... protein?
or ?hypo-thetical protein?
appear frequently as first parts ofgene names.2.4 Analysis of inter-gene variationsAs we have so far analyzed synonyms of one and thesame gene to extract knowledge on name composi-tion, we can now apply this knowledge to the wholeset of gene names.
This means, that we add knowl-edge gained by analyzing one gene to other genes,wherever applicable.
Essentially, this comes downto finding corresponding concepts in two or moregenes?
names, and joining the information containedin each concept.
If within one gene name it becameclear that ?L?
and ?ligand?
represent the same con-cept, and for another gene ?L?
and ?LG?
are vari-ations of the same concept, then a combined con-cept would have all three variations.
The combinedconcept then replaces the old concepts.
We applythe same idea to name parts, for which informationabout their ordering etc.
was extracted.Inter-gene analysis also reveals the main distinc-tive features of single gene names or groups ofnames (for instance, families.)
Some names dif-fer only in Arabic/Roman numbers or in Greek let-158ters.
Potentially they belong to the same group, asdifferent members or subtypes.
Knowing how tofind one family member implicitly means knowinghow to find the others.
Thus, it helps identify cru-cial parts (for the family name) and distinctive parts(for the exact member.)
A matching strategy couldthus try to find the family name and then look forany reference to a number.
Knowledge about thiskind of relationships has to be encoded in the dictio-nary, however.
Spotting a gene family?s name with-out any specific number could lead to the assign-ment of the first member to the match, see Table 3,rule no.
8 (or dismissing the name, depending onuser-specific demands).
Such information can alsobe used for disambiguating names.
Analyzing thenames ?CD95 ligand?
and ?CD95 receptor?
of twodifferent genes, it can be concluded that ?CD95?
byitself contains not enough information to justify theidentification of either gene directly.
Finding other?receptor?s in the dictionary will also mark ?recep-tor?
as a concept crucial, but not sufficient, for iden-tifying a gene?s name in text.
For ?CD95?, on theother hand, we have shown before that this tokenmight be exchanged with others.Knowledge about (partial) abbreviations, like inaforementioned ?HIF?
= ?Hypoxia-inducible fac-tor?
and ?OR?
= ?olfactory receptor?, can be trans-ferred to all synonyms from other entries in the dic-tionary that have the same long or short forms (butpossibly do not mention the respective other in anysynonym.)
Similarly, presumed lexical variations(?gastric?
versus ?stomach?)
that have been foundfor one gene name (one concept) can be includedin all corresponding concepts to spread the informa-tion that ?gastric?
can appear as ?stomach?
in text.This is necessary to detect the name ?stomach alco-hol dehydrogenase?, where the corresponding En-trez Gene entry (ADH7, 131) does have the token?stomach?
in any of its synonyms.Also, synonyms mentioning the species (like?hIAN1?
to depict human) are not contained forevery entry.
Learning that ?h?
can be added to agene name helps recognizing such a variation in textfor other names (the dictionary lacks the variation?hFasL?
of FASLG, which is sometimes used.
)3 Evaluation and ConclusionsWe evaluated some ideas presented in this paper onthe BioCreAtIvE 2 (BC2) dataset for the gene nor-malization task.
For the purpose of this study, wewere interested in how our method would performconcerning the recall, as compared to methods basedon hand-curated dictionary refinement.
We con-ducted the following experiment: the BC2 GN goldstandard consists of references to abstracts (PubMedIDs), genes identified in each abstract (Entrez GeneIDs) and text snippets that comprise each gene?sname.
For one abstract, there could be multiple, dif-ferent snippets representing the same gene, ADH7(131): ?stomach alcohol dehydrogenase?, ?class IValcohol dehydrogenase?, or ?sigma-ADH?, all in thesame abstract.
For identification, it was sufficient inBC2 to report the ID, regardless of number of occur-rences or name variations.As the method presented in this paper lacks amatching strategy for spotting of names, we per-formed our initial evaluation on the text snippetsonly.
Finding the right ID for each snippet thusultimately yielded the recall performance.
In theabove example, we would try to identify ID 131three times, counting every miss as a false nega-tive.
The methods presented above were able toyield a recall of 73.1%.
With the original BC2 eval-uation scheme, we achieve a recall of 84.2%.
Com-pared to the highest result for our system with amanually refined dictionary, this figure is more than8% lower.
This shows that still, many name varia-tions are not recognized.
Some errors could be ac-counted to ranges or enumerations of gene names(?SMADs 1, 5 and 8?
), others to not far enoughreaching analyses: for detecting ?SMAD8?, we onlyhad the synonyms ?SMAD8A?, ?SMAD8B?, and?SMAD9?
for the correct gene in the dictionary (allare synonyms for the same gene, according to EntrezGene).
It should thus have been learned that the let-ter ?A?
can be left out (similar to ?1?, see rule no.
8in Table 3.)
Another undetected example is ?G(olf)alpha?
(GNAL, 2774).
Rules to restrict either of thesynonyms- Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(olf), alpha subunit- guanine nucleotide binding protein (G protein),alpha stimulating activity polypeptide, olfactory type- Adenylate cyclase-stimulating G alpha protein, olfactory type- Guanine nucleotide-binding protein, alpha-subunit, olfactorytype159to this mentioning in text could have been deducedas follows:(1) Learn in another gene: description before?protein?
can be left out ?
?G(olf), alpha subunit?could be a name of its own.
(2) Learn in this or another gene: ?alpha subunit?can be expressed as ?alpha?
(or ?subunit?
skipped)?
?G(olf) alpha?
could be a name.We see that most orthographical and morpholog-ical variations (Greek symbols/English words, sin-gular/plural forms, capitalization) can be integratedquite easily in matching techniques.
The generalknowledge about such variations is far-reaching andcan be applied to most domains.
In contrast, struc-tural and lexical variations are much harder to pin-point and express in general ways; mostly, such pos-sible variations are specific to a sub-domain and thuspresent the main challenge for our method.The ideas discussed in this paper originated fromwork on the aforementioned BioCreAtIvE 2 task.In that work, we used manually designed rules togenerate variations of gene names.
Hanisch etal.
(Hanisch et al, 2005) and other groups proposesimilar methods all based on human observation andexperience leading to refined dictionaries.
As manycauses for name variations are easy to spot and ex-press, we concluded it was entirely possible to gainsuch insights in an automated manner.
Left undeter-mined is the potential impact of composition ruleson machine-learning techniques that use dictionar-ies as input for features.However, the methodology should work for othertask using the same or similar initial observations(This remains to be proven.)
We are currently ap-plying the method to the analysis of Gene Ontologyterms (Ashburner et al, 2000).
There, many termsare mere descriptions of concepts than precise la-bels, and there are less additional synonyms (withstructural and lexical variations.)
A good startingpoint for assessing possible patterns in name com-position could also be the MeSH controlled vocabu-lary.
Entries in MeSH typically contain many struc-tural and lexical variations, a deeper understandingof which bears more insights than of orthographicalor morphological variations.Readers of this manuscript should either gainmore insights into name compositions of genenames ?in order to help refining dictionaries basedon manual rule sets?, or be convinced that the ideaof learning composition rules can be tackled in auto-mated ways, promising examples of and basic tech-niques for which we discussed herein.Supplementary informationThe extracted set of rules for name variations and anextended dictionary for human genes, originating fromEntrez Gene, are available at http://www.informatik.hu-berlin.de/?hakenber/publ/suppl/ .
The dictionary can directly beused for matching entries against text and covers 32,980 genes.The main Java classes are available on request from the authors.ReferencesMichael Ashburner, Catherine A.
Ball, Judith A. Blake, DavidBotstein, Heather Butler, et al 2000.
Gene Ontology: Toolfor the Unification of Biology.
Nature Genetics, 25:25?29.Aaron M. Cohen and William R. Hersh.
2005.
A survey ofcurrent work in biomedical text mining.
Briefings in Bioin-formatics, 6(1):57?71.Jeremiah Crim, Ryan McDonald, and Fernando Pereira.
Auto-matically annotating documents with normalized gene lists.2005.
BMC Bioinformatics, 6(Suppl 1):S13.Jo?rg Hakenberg, Steffen Bickel, Conrad Plake, Ulf Brefeld, Ha-gen Zahn, Lukas Faulstich, Ulf Leser, and Tobias Scheffer.2005.
Systematic feature evaluation for gene name recogni-tion.
BMC Bioinformatics, 6(Suppl 1):S9.Jo?rg Hakenberg, Loic Royer, Conrad Plake, Hendrik Strobelt.2007.
Me and my friends: gene mention normalization withbackground knowledge.
Proc 2nd BioCreative ChallengeEvaluation Workshop, April 23-25 2007, Madrid, Spain.Daniel Hanisch, Katrin Fundel, Heinz-Theodor Mevissen, RalfZimmer, Juliane Fluck ProMiner: rule-based protein andgene entity recognition.
2005.
BMC Bioinformatics,6(Suppl 1):S14.Ulf Leser and Jo?rg Hakenberg.
2005.
What Makes a GeneName?
Named Entity Recognition in the Biomedical Liter-ature.
Briefings in Bioinformatics, 6(4):357?369.Donna Maglott, Jim Ostell, Kim D. Pruitt, and TatianaTatusova.
2005.
Entrez Gene: gene?centered informationat NCBI.
Nucleic Acids Research, 33(Database Issue):D54?D58.Alexander Morgan and Lynette Hirschman.
2007.
Overview ofBioCreative II Gene Normalization.
In: Proc 2nd BioCre-ative Challenge Evaluation Workshop, April 23-25 2007,Madrid, Spain.Saul B. Needleman and Christian D. Wunsch.
1970.
A generalmethod applicable to the search for similarities in the aminoacid sequence of two proteins.
J. Mol.
Biol., 48(3):443?53.Ariel S. Schwartz and Marti A. Hearst.
2003.
A simple algo-rithm for identifying abbreviation definitions in biomedicaltext.
Proc Pac Sym Bio, 451?462.Hua Xu, Jung-Wei Fan, George Hripcsak, Eneida A. Mendonc?a,Marianthi Markatou, and Carol Friedman.
2007.
Gene sym-bol disambiguation using knowledge-based profiles.
Bioin-formatics, 23(8):1015?1022.160
