Proceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspective on Multiword Expressions, pages 17?24,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsDesign and Implementation of a Lexicon of Dutch Multiword ExpressionsNicole Gre?goireUil-OTSUniversity of UtrechtUtrecht, The NetherlandsNicole.Gregoire@let.uu.nlAbstractThis paper describes the design and imple-mentation of a lexicon of Dutch multiwordexpressions (MWEs).
No exhaustive re-search on a standard lexical representationof MWEs has been done for Dutch before.The approach taken is innovative, since itis based on the Equivalence Class Method.Furthermore, the selection of the lexical en-tries and their properties is corpus-based.The design of the lexicon and the standardrepresentation will be tested in Dutch NLPsystems.
The purpose of the current paper isto give an overview of the decisions made inorder to come to a standard lexical represen-tation and to discuss the description fieldsthis representation comprises.1 IntroductionThis paper describes the design and implementa-tion of a lexicon of Dutch multiword expressions(MWEs).
MWEs are known to be problematic fornatural language processing.
A considerable amountof research has been conducted in this area.
Mostprogress has been made especially in the field ofmultiword identification (Villada Moiro?n and Tiede-mann, 2006; Katz and Giesbrecht, 2006; Zhanget al, 2006).
Moreover, interesting papers havebeen written on the representation of MWEs, mostof them focusing on a single class of MWEs, seesection 2.
This paper elaborates on a standardlexical representation for Dutch MWEs developedwithin the STEVIN IRME project.1 Part of theproject focused on the design and implementationof an electronic resource of 5,000 Dutch expressionsthat meets the criterion of being highly theory- andimplementation-independent, and which can be usedin various Dutch NLP systems.
The selection of thelexical entries and their properties is corpus-based.Work has been conducted on collecting DutchMWEs in the past, yielding one commercial printeddictionary (de Groot, 1999), and an electronicresource called the Referentiebestand Nederlands(?Reference Database of The Dutch Language?
)(Martin and Maks, 2005), both mainly meant forhuman users.
No focus had been put on creatinga standard representation for Dutch MWEs that canbe converted into any system specific representation.The approach taken is innovative, since it is basedon the Equivalence Class Method (ECM) (Odijk,2004b).
The idea behind the ECM is that MWEsthat have the same pattern require the same treat-ment in an NLP system.
MWEs with the samepattern form so-called Equivalence Classes (ECs).Having the ECs, it requires some manual work toconvert one instance of an EC into a system specificrepresentation, but all other members of the sameEC can be done in a fully automatic manner.
Thismethod is really powerful since very detailed patterndescriptions can be used for describing the charac-teristics of a group of MWEs.
Besides the descrip-tion of the MWE patterns, we designed a uniformrepresentation for the description of the individualexpressions.
Both the pattern descriptions and theMWE descriptions are implemented in the Lexicon1http://www-uilots.let.uu.nl/irme/17of Dutch MWEs.The purpose of this paper is to give an overviewof the decisions made in order to come to a standardlexical representation and furthermore to discuss thedescription fields that are part of this representation.The paper starts with an overview of related re-search in section 2.
This is followed by elaboratingthe Lexicon of Dutch MWEs in section 3, a discus-sion in section 4, and a conclusion in section 5.2 Related research: classes andrepresentationsThe area of multiword expressions includes manydifferent subtypes, varying from fixed expressionsto syntactically more flexible expressions.
Sag et al(2001) wrote a well-known paper on subclasses ofMWEs, in which they make a distinction betweenlexicalized phrases and institutionalized phrases.Lexicalized phrases are subdivided into fixed, semi-fixed and flexible expressions.
The most importantreason for this subdivision is the variation in the de-gree of syntactic flexibility of MWEs.
Roughly theyclaim that syntactic flexibility is related to semanticdecomposability.
Semantically non-decomposableidioms are idioms the meaning of which cannotbe distributed over its parts and which are there-fore not subject to syntactic variability.
Sag et alstate that ?the only types of lexical variation ob-servable in non-decomposable idioms are inflection(kicked the bucket) and variation in reflexive form(wet oneself).?
Examples of non-decomposable id-ioms are the oft-cited kick the bucket and shoot thebreeze.
On the contrary, semantically decomposableidioms, such as spill the beans, tend to be syntacti-cally flexible to some degree.
Mapping the bound-aries of flexibility, however, is not always easy andno one can predict exactly which types of syntacticvariation a given idiom can undergo.One subtype of flexible expressions discussed inSag et al (2001) is the type of Light Verb Con-structions (or Support Verb Constructions (SVCs)).SVCs are combinations of a verb that seems tohave very little semantic content and a prepositionalphrase, a noun phrase or adjectival phrase.
An SVCis often paraphrasable by means of a single verb oradjective.
Since the complement of the verb is usedin its normal sense, the constructions are subject tostandard grammar rules, which include passiviza-tion, internal modification, etc.
The lexical selectionof the verb is highly restricted.
Examples of SVCsare give/*make a demo, make/*do a mistake.As stated, no exhaustive research on a standardrepresentation of MWEs has been done for Dutchbefore.
Work on this topic has been conductedfor other languages, which in most cases focusedon a single subtype.
Both Dormeyer and Fischer(1998) and Fellbaum et al (2006) report on workon a resource for German verbal idioms, while therepresentation of German PP-verb collocations isaddressed in (Krenn, 2000).
Kuiper et al (2003)worked on a representation of English idioms, andVillavicencio et al (2004) proposed a lexical encod-ing of MWEs in general, by analysing English id-ioms and verb-partical constructions.
Except for theSAID-database (Kuiper et al, 2003), which com-prises over 13,000 expression, the created resourcescontain no more than 1,000 high-frequent expres-sions.
Both Fellbaum et al and Krenn support theirlexical annotation with a corpus-based investigation.In our approach, we also use data extracted from cor-pora as empirical material, see section 3.2.In most resources addressed, some kind of syn-tactic analysis is assigned to individual expressions.The most sophisticated syntactic analysis is donein the SAID-database.
The approach taken byKuiper et al (2003) would have been more theory-independent, if it included a textual description, ac-cording to which classes of idioms could be formed.Villavicencio et al (2004) defined a specific meta-type for each particular class of MWEs.
The meta-types can be used to map the semantic relations be-tween the components of an MWE into grammarspecific features.
Examples of meta-types specifiedare verb-object-idiom and verb-particle-np.
Theystate that the majority of the MWEs in their databasecould be described by the meta-types defined.
Butsince only a sample of 125 verbal idioms was usedfor the classification, no estimation can be given ofhow many classes this approach yields, when con-sulting a larger set of various types of MWEs.
Fell-baum et al (2006) provide a dependency structurefor each expression, but not with the intention ofgrouping the entries accordingly.To conclude this section, although our approach isin line with some of the projects described, our work18is also distinctive because (1) it focuses on Dutch;(2) it does not solely focus on one type of MWEs,but on MWEs in general; (3) the lexicon includes5,000 unique expressions, and (4) for an initial ver-sion of the lexicon a conversion to the Dutch NLPsystem Alpino2 has been tested.
In the remainderof this paper we discuss our approach to the lexicalrepresentation of MWEs.3 A Lexicon of Dutch MWEsIn our research multiword expressions are defined asa combination of words that has linguistic propertiesnot predictable from the individual components orthe normal way they are combined (Odijk, 2004a).The linguistic properties can be of any type, e.g.
inline is an MWE according to its syntactic character-istics, since it lacks a determiner preceding the sin-gular count noun line, which is obligatory in stan-dard English grammar.Various aspects played a role in the representa-tion as it is in the Lexicon of Dutch MWEs.
First ofall, the main requirement of the standard encodingis that it can be converted into any system specificrepresentation with a minimal amount of manualwork.
The method adopted to achieve this goal is theEquivalence Class Method (ECM) (Odijk, 2004b).As stated, the ECM is based on the idea that givena class of MWE descriptions, representations for aspecific theory and implementation can be derived.The procedure is that one instance of an EquivalenceClass (EC) must be converted manually.
By defin-ing and formalizing the conversion procedure, theother instances of the same EC can be converted in afully automatic manner.
In other words, having theECs consisting of MWEs with the same pattern, itrequires some manual work to convert one instanceof each EC into a system specific representation, butall other members of the same EC can be done fullyautomatically.
In the current approach, a formal rep-resentation of the patterns has been added to the pat-tern descriptions.
Since this formal representationis in agreement with a de facto standard for Dutch(van Noord et al, 2006), most Dutch NLP systemsare able to use it for the conversion procedure, yield-ing an optimal reduction of manual labor.The creation of MWE descriptions is a very time-2http://odur.let.rug.nl/?vannoord/alp.consuming task and of course we aim at an error-free result.
Accordingly, we decided to describe theminimal ingredients of an MWE that are needed forsuccessful incorporation in any Dutch NLP system.For the development of the representation two Dutchparsers are consulted, viz.
the Alpino parser and theRosetta MT system (Rosetta, 1994).Another requirement of the lexicon structure isthat the information needed for the representationis extractable from corpora, since we want to avoidanalyses entirely based on speaker-specific intu-itions.3.1 SubclassesEach MWE in the lexicon is classified as eitherfixed, semi-flexible or flexible.
In general, our clas-sification conforms to the categorization given inSag et al (2001), any differences are explicitly dis-cussed below.3.1.1 Fixed MWEsFixed MWEs always occur in the same wordorder and there is no variation in lexical itemchoice.
Fixed MWEs cannot undergo morpho-syntactic variation and are contiguous, i.e.
no otherelements can intervene between the words that arepart of the fixed MWE.
Examples of Dutch fixedMWEs are: ad hoc, ter plaatse ?on the spot?, vanhoger hand ?from higher authority?.3.1.2 Semi-flexible MWEsThe following characteristics are applicable to theclass of semi-flexible MWEs in our lexicon:1.
The lexical item selection of the elements of theexpression is fixed or very limited.2.
The expression can only be modified as awhole.33.
The individual components can inflect, unlessexplicitly marked otherwise with a parameter.Examples of Dutch semi-flexible MWEs are: deplaat poetsen (lit.
?to polish the plate?, id.
?to clearoff?
), witte wijn ?white wine?, bijvoeglijk naam-woord ?adjective?.3We abstract away from the reason why some external mod-ifiers, such a proverbial in he kicked the proverbial bucket, mayintrude in these semi-flexible expressions.19The characteristics of this class differ on one pointfrom the characteristics of the semi-fixed class dis-cussed in Sag et al (2001), viz.
on the fact that ac-cording to Sag et al semi-fixed expressions are notsubject to syntactic variability and the only types oflexical variation are inflection and variation in thereflexive form.
This degree of fixedness does notapply to our class of semi-flexible MWEs, i.e.
inDutch (and also in other Germanic languages likeGerman), operations that involve movement of theverb such as verb second, verb first and verb raising,see (1)-(3), are also applicable to the class of semi-flexible expressions (Schenk, 1994).
(1) Hijhepoetstepolisheddetheplaat.plate?He cleared off.?
(2) Poetstepolishedhijhethetheplaat?plate?Did he clear off??
(3) ......omdatbecausehijhedetheplaatplatewildewantedpoetsen.polish?...
because he wanted to clear off?3.1.3 Flexible MWEsThe main characteristic of flexible MWEs is thefact that, contrary to semi-flexible MWEs, the in-dividual components within flexible MWEs can bemodified.
This contrast accounts for differencesbetween de plaat poetsen versus een bok schieten(lit.
?to shoot a male-goat?, id.
?
to make a blun-der?)
and blunder maken/begaan (?
to make a blun-der?).
Although both een bok schieten and blundermaken/begaan are flexible MWEs, there is a differ-ence between the two expressions.
According to theclassification proposed by Sag et al (2001), een bokschieten is a decomposable idiom, of which the in-dividual components cannot occur independently intheir idiomatic meaning and een blunder maken is asupport verb construction.
We also want to use thisclassification, and represent these expressions as fol-lows:1.
Expressions of which one part is lexically fixedand the other part is selected from a list of oneor more co-occuring lexemes.
Dutch examplesare: scherpe/stevige kritiek (?severe criticism?
),blunder maken/begaan.2.
Expressions of which the lexical realization ofeach component consists of exactly one lex-eme.
A Dutch example is een bok schieten.The difference between the two subtypes is madevisible in the representation of the MWE and theMWE pattern.3.2 The dataWe use data extracted from the Twente Nieuws Cor-pus (TwNC) (Ordelman, 2002) as empirical mate-rial.4 This corpus comprises a 500 million words ofnewspaper text and television news reports.
Fromthe TwNC, a list of candidate expressions is ex-tracted, including for each expression the followingproperties:?
the pattern assigned to the expression by theAlpino parser?
the frequency?
the head of the expression?
the ten most occurring subjects?
internal complements and for each comple-ment: its head, the head of the complement ofthe head (in the case of PP complements), itsdependency label assigned by Alpino, the num-ber of the noun, whether the noun is positive ofdiminutive, the ten most occurring determiners,the ten most occurring premodifiers, and the tenmost occurring postmodifiers.?
six examples sentencesThe use of corpora is necessary but not suffi-cient.
It is necessary because we want our lexiconto reflect actual language usage and because we donot want to restrict ourselves to a linguist?s imag-ination of which uses are possible or actually oc-cur.
On the other hand, using the corpora to ex-tract the MWEs is not sufficient for the followingreasons: (1) text corpora may contain erroneous us-age, and the technique used cannot distinguish thisfrom correct usage; (2) the extraction is in part basedon an automatic syntactic parse of the corpus sen-tences, and these parses may be incorrect; (3) the4The identification of MWEs is done by Begon?a VilladaMoiro?n working at the University of Groningen.20extraction techniques cannot distinguish idiomaticversus literal uses of word combinations; (4) the ex-traction techniques group different expressions thatshare some but not all words together.
Therefore thedata extracted were carefully analyzed before creat-ing entries for MWEs.3.3 The lexical represention3.3.1 Pattern descriptionIn the Lexicon of Dutch MWEs, expressions areclassified according to their pattern.
In the origi-nal ECM the pattern is an identifier which refers tothe structure of the idiom represented as free textin which the uniqueness of the pattern is described.This description includes the syntactic category ofthe head of the expression, the complements it takesand the description of the internal structure of thecomplements.
Furthermore it is described whetherindividual components can be modified.
In the cur-rent approach the description of the pattern containsbesides a textual description also a formal notation,see (4).
(4) Expressions headed by a verb, taking a fixeddirect object constisting of a determiner anda noun ?
[.VP [.obj1:NP [.det:D (1) ] [.hd:N(2) ]] [.hd:V (3) ]]The notation used to describe the patterns is a for-malization of dependency trees, in particular CGN(Corpus Gesproken Nederlands ?Corpus of SpokenDutch?)
dependency trees (Hoekstra et al, 2003).CGN dependency structures are based on traditionalsyntactic analysis described in the Algemene Neder-landse Spraakkunst (Haeseryn et al, 1997) and areaimed to be as theory neutral as possible.The patterns are encoded using a formal language,which is short and which allows easy visualizationof dependency trees.
The dependency labels (inlower case) and category labels (in upper case) aredivided by a colon (:), e.g.
obj1:NP.
For leaf nodes,the part-of-speech is represented instead of the cate-gory label.
Leaf nodes are followed by an index thatrefers to the MWE component as represented in theCL-field (see section 3.3.2), e.g.
(1) refers to the firstcomponent of the CL, (2) to the second, etc.A fixed expression can be represented in two waysdepending on its internal structure:1.
For fixed expressions that are difficult to as-sign an internal structure, we introduced a la-bel fixed.
The pattern for expressions such asad hoc and ter plaatste is [.
:Adv fixed(1 2) ]2.
Fixed expressions with an analyzable internalstructure are represented according to the nor-mal pattern description rules:(5) de volle buit (?everything?
)[.NP [.det:D (1) ] [.mod:A (2) ] [.hd:N (3) ]]Semi-flexible MWEs are also represented accord-ing to normal pattern description rules.
To make adistinction between (1) an NP of which all elementsare fixed, and (2) an NP of which some elementsare lexically fixed, but which is still subject to stan-dard grammar rules, a new syntactic category N1 hasbeen introduced.
N1 indicates that the expressioncan be modified as a whole and can take a deter-miner as specifier:(6) witte wijn[.N1 [.mod:A (1) ] [.hd:N (2) ]]The pattern of flexible expressions of which thelexical realization of each component consists of ex-actly one lexeme is encoded using the syntactic cat-egory N1.
We can use the same category as in (6),since what we want to describe is the fact that thecomponents in the NP are fixed, but can be modifiedas a whole and can take a determiner as specifier.
(7) bok schieten[.VP [.obj1:N1 [.hd:N (1) ]] [.hd:V (2) ]]Expressions of which one part is fixed and theother part is selected from a list of one or more co-occuring lexemes are represented with a so-calledLIST-index in the pattern.
The fixed part of the ex-pression has its literal sense.
The combination ofthe literal part with other lexemes is not predicablefrom the meaning of the combining lexeme.
Sincethe meaning of an MWE or its parts is not includedin the representation, we can list every single com-ponent with which the fixed part can combine in thesame MWE entry.
For this list of components wecreated a LISTA-field and LISTB-field in the MWEdescription.
Lists and variables are represented sim-ilar to MWE components, attached to the leaf node,in lower case and between (), e.g.
[.hd:X (list) ],[obj1:NP (var) ], [obj2:NP (var) ], etc.
:21(8) iemand de helpende hand bieden (lit.
?offers.o.
the helping hand?, id.
?lend s.o.
a hand?
)[.VP [.obj2:NP (var) ] [.obj1:NP [.det:D (1)] [.mod:A (2) ] [.hd:N (3) ]] [.hd:V (4) ]]Our characterization of the classes of MWEs andthe formal notation of the patterns do not fully coverthe range of different types of MWEs that are de-scribed in the lexicon.
The strength of the ECM is,however, that any expression can be included in thelexicon, regardless of whether it fits our classifica-tion, because of the textual description that can beassigned.
Expressions that cannot be assigned a de-pendency structure, because of the limitations of thenotation, are classified according to the textual de-scription of its pattern.
A revision of the formal no-tation might be done in the future.The pattern is part of the MWE pattern descrip-tion which includes, besides a pattern name, a pat-tern and a textual description, five additional fields,which are both maintenance field and fields neededfor a successful implementation of the standard rep-resentation into a system specific representation.Examples of MWE pattern descriptions stored in theLexicon of Dutch MWEs are given in Table 1.3.3.2 MWE descriptionIn addition to the MWE pattern descriptions, thelexicon contains MWE descriptions, see Table 2 fora list of examples.
An MWE description comprises8 description fields.
The PATTERN NAME is usedto assign an MWE pattern description to the expres-sion.
The EXPRESSION-field contains the obligatoryfixed components of an MWE in the full form.The Component List (CL) contains the same com-ponents as the EXPRESSION-field.
The difference isthat the components in the CL are in the canonical(or non-inflected) form, instead of in the full form.Parameters are used to specify the full form char-acteristics of each component.
The term parame-ter is a feature and can be defined as an occurrenceof the pair <parameter category,parameter value>,where parameter category refers to the aspect weparameterize, and parameter value to the value a pa-rameter category takes.
Examples of parameters are<nnum,sg> for singular nouns,<afrm,sup> for su-perlative adjectives, <vfrm,part> for particle verbs(Gre?goire, 2006).
Parameter values are realized be-tween square brackets directly on the right of theitem they parameterize.The LISTA-field and LISTB-field are used to storecomponents that can be substituted for the LIST-index in the pattern, yielding one or more expres-sions.
The reason for using two LIST-fields is toseparate predefined list values from special list val-ues.
The predefined list values are high frequentverbs that are known to occur often as so-called lightverbs, especially with PPs.
Two sets of verbs arepredefined:1. blijken (?appear?)
blijven (?remain?)
gaan(?go?)
komen (?come?)
lijken (?appear?)
raken(?get?)
schijnen (?seem?)
vallen (?be?)
worden(?become?)
zijn (?be?)2.
brengen (?bring?)
doen (?do?)
geven (?give?
)hebben (?have?)
houden (?keep?)
krijgen (?get?
)maken (?make?)
zetten (?put?
)A complement co-occurs either with verbs fromset 1 or with verbs from set 2.
Each verb from thechosen set is checked against the occurrences foundin the corpus data.
If a verb does not occur in thecorpus data and also not in self-constructed data,it is deleted from the LISTA-field.
The LISTB-fieldcontains lexemes that are not in the predefined setbut do co-occur with the component(s) in the EX-PRESSION-field.
The information in the LISTB-fieldis merely based on corpus data and therefore maynot be exhaustive.The EXAMPLE-field contains an example sen-tence with the expression.
The only requirement ofthis field is that its structure is identical for each ex-pression with the same PATTERN NAME.
The PO-LARITY-field is none by default and takes the valueNPI if an expression can only occur in negative en-vironments, and PPI if an expression can only occurin positive environments.
Finally, the MWE descrip-tion contains a field with a reference to a plain textfile in which the information extracted from the cor-pora is stored.4 DiscussionWe have given an overview of the decisions madein order to come to a standard lexical representa-tion for Dutch MWEs and discussed the description22NAME PATTERN DESCRIPTIONEC1 [.VP [.obj1:NP [.det:D (1) ] [.hd:N (2) ]] [.hd:V (3) ]] Expressions headed by a verb, takinga fixed direct object contisting of adeterminer and a noun.EC2 [.VP [.obj1:N1 [.hd:N (1) ]] [.hd:V (list) ]] Expressions headed by a verb, takinga direct object consisting of a fixedmodifiable and inflectable noun (list).EC9 [.VP [.obj1:N1 [.hd:N (1) ]] [.hd:V (list) ] Expressions headed by a verb, taking[.pc:PP [.hd:P (2) ] [obj1:NP (var) ]]] (1) a direct object consisting of a fixedmodifiable noun, and (2) a PP-argumentconsisting of a fixed preposition and avariable complement (list).Table 1: List of MWE pattern descriptions.PATTERN EXPRESSION CL LISTEC1 zijn kansen waarnemen zijn kans[pl] waarnemen -(?to seize the opportunity?
)EC2 blunder (?mistake?)
blunder begaan (?commit?)
maken (?make?
)EC9 kans op kans op lopen (?get?)
maken(?to stand a change of s.th.?
)Table 2: List of MWE descriptions.fields this representation comprises.
Contrary to re-lated work, we did not solely focus on one type ofMWEs, but on MWEs in general.
The Lexicon ofDutch MWEs includes 5,000 unique expressions andfor an initial version a conversion to the Dutch NLPsystem Alpino has been tested.
The strength of ourmethod lies in the ability of grouping individual ex-pressions according to their pattern, yielding mul-tiple classes of MWEs.
The advantage of creatingclasses of MWEs is that it eases the conversion ofthe standard representation into any system specificrepresentation.Describing a class of MWEs using free text isalready very useful in its current form.
To helpspeeding up the process of converting the standardrepresentation into a system specific representation,we introduced a formal notation using dependencystructures, which are aimed to be as theory neutral aspossible.
However, our current notation is unable tocover all the patterns described in the lexicon.
Thenotation can be extended, but we must make surethat it does not become too ad hoc and more compli-cated than interpreting free text.We have created a resource that is suited for awide variety of MWEs.
The resource describes a setof essential properties for each MWE and classifieseach expression as either fixed, semi-flexible or flex-ible.
The set of properties can surely be extended,but we have limited ourselves to a number of coreproperties because of resource limitations.
We areconfident that this resource can form a good basisfor an even more complete description of MWEs.5 ConclusionThis paper described the design and implementa-tion of a lexicon of Dutch multiword expressions.No exhaustive research on a standard representationof MWEs has been done for Dutch before.
Dataextracted form large Dutch text corpora were usedas empirical material.
The approach taken is inno-vative, since it is based on the Equivalence ClassMethod (ECM).
The ECM focuses on describingMWEs according to their pattern, making it possibleto form classes of MWEs that require the same treat-ment in natural language processing.
The Lexicon of23Dutch MWEs constitutes 5,000 unique expressionsand for an initial version of the lexicon a conversionto the Dutch NLP system Alpino has been tested.AcknowledgementsThe IRME project is carried out within the STEVINprogramme which is funded by the Dutch and Flem-ish Governments (http://taalunieversum.org/stevin).The author would like to thank Jan Odijk and twoanonymous reviewers for their valuable input to thispaper.ReferencesHans de Groot.
1999.
Van Dale Idioomwoordenboek.Van Dale Lexicografie, Utrecht.Ricarda Dormeyer and Ingrid Fischer.
1998.
Buildinglexicons out of a database for idioms.
In AntonioRubio, Nativiad Gallardo, Rosa Castro, and AntonioTejada, editors, Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation,pages 833 ?
838.Christiane Fellbaum, Alexander Geyken, Axel Herold,Fabian Koerner, and Gerald Neumann.
2006.
Corpus-Based Studies of German Idioms and Light Verbs.
In-ternational Journal of Lexicography, 19(4):349?361.Nicole Gre?goire.
2006.
Elaborating the parameterizedequivalence class method for dutch.
In Nicoletta Cal-zolari, editor, Proceedings of the Fifth InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2006), pages 1894?99, Genoa, Italy.
ELRA.W.
Haeseryn, K. Romijn, G. Geerts, J. de Rooij, andM.C.
van den Toorn.
1997.
Algemene NederlandseSpraakkunst.
Martinus Nijhoff and Wolters Plantyn,Groningen en Deurne.Heleen Hoekstra, Michael Moortgat, Bram Renmans,Machteld Schouppe, Ineke Schuurman, and Tonvan der Wouden.
2003.
Cgn syntactische annotatie.Graham Katz and Eugenie Giesbrecht.
2006.
Auto-matic identification of non-compositional multi-wordexpressions using latent semantic analysis.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL 2006 Workshop on MultiwordExpressions: Identifying and Exploiting UnderlyingProperties., Sydney, Australia.Brigitte Krenn.
2000.
CDB - a database of lexical collo-cations.
In 2nd International Conference on LanguageResources & Evaluation (LREC ?00), May 31 - June 2,Athens, Greece.
ELRA.Koenraad Kuiper, Heather McCann, Heidi Quinn,Therese Aitchison, and Kees van der Veer.
2003.SAID: A syntactically annotated idiom dataset.
Lin-guistic Data Consortium, LDC2003T10, Pennsylva-nia.Willy Martin and Isa Maks.
2005.
Referentie bestandnederlands documentatie.
Technical report, INL.Jan Odijk.
2004a.
Multiword expressions in NLP.Course presentation, LOT Summerschool, Utrecht,July.Jan Odijk.
2004b.
A proposed standard for the lexicalrepresentation of idioms.
In EURALEX 2004 Proceed-ings, pages 153?164.
Universite?
de Bretagne Sud, July.R.J.F.
Ordelman.
2002.
Twente nieuws corpus (TwNC).M T. Rosetta.
1994.
Compositional Translation.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Dordrecht.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2001.
Multiword ex-pressions: A pain in the neck for NLP.
LinGO Work-ing Paper, (2001-03).Andre?
Schenk.
1994.
Idioms and collocations in com-positional grammars.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofUtrecht.Gertjan van Noord, Ineke Schuurman, and Vincent Van-deghinste.
2006.
Syntactic annotation of large cor-pora in stevin.
In Proceedings of the Fifth Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Evalu-ation (LREC 2006), Genoa - Italy.Begona Villada Moiro?n and Joerg Tiedemann.
2006.Identifying idiomatic expressions using automaticword-alignment.
In Proceedings of the EACL 2006Workshop on Multiword Expressions in a MultilingualContext, Trento, Italy.Aline Villavicencio, Ann Copestake, Benjamin Waldron,and Fabre Lambeau.
2004.
The lexical encoding ofMWEs.
In T. Tanaka, A. Villavicencio, F. Bond, andA.
Korhonen, editors, Proceedings of the ACL 2004Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Integrating Pro-cessing, Barcelona, Spain.Yi Zhang, Valia Kordoni, Aline Villavicencio, and MarcoIdiart.
2006.
Automated multiword expression pre-diction for grammar engineering.
In Proceedingsof the ACL 2006 Workshop on Multiword Expres-sions: Identifying and Exploiting Underlying Proper-ties., Sydney, Australia.24
