Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Morphology and Phonology, pages 65?74,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsEvolution, Optimization, and Language Change:The Case of Bengali Verb InflectionsMonojit Choudhury1, Vaibhav Jalan2, Sudeshna Sarkar1, Anupam Basu11 Department of Computer Science and EngineeringIndian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India{monojit,sudeshna,anupam}@cse.iitkgp.ernet.in2 Department of Computer EngineeringMalaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur, Indiavaibhavjalan.mnit@gmail.comAbstractThe verb inflections of Bengali underwenta series of phonological change between10th and 18th centuries, which gave riseto several modern dialects of the language.In this paper, we offer a functional ex-planation for this change by quantifyingthe functional pressures of ease of artic-ulation, perceptual contrast and learnabil-ity through objective functions or con-straints, or both.
The multi-objective andmulti-constraint optimization problem hasbeen solved through genetic algorithm,whereby we have observed the emergenceof Pareto-optimal dialects in the systemthat closely resemble some of the realones.1 IntroductionNumerous theories have been proposed to explainthe phenomenon of linguistic change, which, of late,are also being supported by allied mathematical orcomputational models.
See (Steels, 1997; Perfors,2002) for surveys on computational models of lan-guage evolution, and (Wang et al, 2005; Niyogi,2006) for reviews of works on language change.The aim of these models is to explain why and howlanguages change under specific socio-cognitive as-sumptions.
Although computational modeling is auseful tool in exploring linguistic change (Cangelosiand Parisi, 2002), due to the inherent complexi-ties of our linguistic and social structures, modelingof real language change turns out to be extremelyhard.
Consequently, with the exception of a few(e.g., Hare and Elman (1995); Dras et al (2003);Ke et al (2003); Choudhury et al (2006b)), all themathematical and computational models developedfor explaining language change are built for artifi-cial toy languages.
This has led several researchersto cast a doubt on the validity of the current compu-tational models as well as the general applicabilityof computational techniques in diachronic explana-tions (Hauser et al, 2002; Poibeau, 2006).In this paper, we offer a functional explanation1of a real world language change ?
the morpho-phonological change affecting the Bengali verbinflections (BVI).
We model the problem as amulti-objective and multi-constraint optimizationand solve the same using Multi-Objective GeneticAlgorithm2 (MOGA).
We show that the differentforms of the BVIs, as found in the several moderndialects, automatically emerge in the MOGA frame-work under suitable modeling of the objective andconstraint functions.
The model also predicts several1Functionalist accounts of language change invoke the basicfunction of language, i.e.
communication, as the driving forcebehind linguistic change (Boersma, 1998).
Stated differently,languages change in a way to optimize their function, such thatspeakers can communicate maximum information with min-imum effort (ease of articulation) and ambiguity (perceptualcontrast).
Often, ease of learnability is also considered a func-tional benefit.
For an overview of different explanations in di-achronic linguistics see (Kroch, 2001) and Ch.
3 of (Blevins,2004).2Genetic algorithm was initially proposed by Hol-land (1975) as a self-organizing adaptation process mimickingthe biological evolution.
They are also used for optimizationand machine learning purposes, especially when the nature ofthe solution space is unknown or there are more than one objec-tive functions.
See Goldberg (1989) for an accessible introduc-tion to single and multi-objective Genetic algorithms.
Note thatin case of a multi-objective optimization problem, MOGA givesa set of Pareto-optimal solutions rather than a single optimum.The concept of Pareto-optimality is defined later.65other possible dialectal forms of Bengali that seemslinguistically plausible and might exist or have ex-isted in the past, present or future.
Note that theevolutionary algorithm (i.e., MOGA) has been usedhere as a tool for optimization, and has no relevanceto the evolution of the dialects as such.Previously, Redford et al (2001) has modeled theemergence of syllable systems in a multi-constraintand multi-objective framework using Genetic al-gorithms.
Since the model fuses the individualobjectives into a single objective function througha weighted linear combination, it is not a multi-objective optimization in its true sense and nei-ther does it use MOGA for the optimization pro-cess.
Nevertheless, the present work draws heavilyfrom the quantitative formulation of the objectivesand constraints described in (Redford, 1999; Red-ford and Diehl, 1999; Redford et al, 2001).
Ke etal.
(2003) has demonstrated the applicability and ad-vantages of MOGA in the context of the vowel andtonal systems, but the model is not explicit about theprocess of change that could give rise to the optimalvowel systems.
As we shall see that the conceptionof the genotype, which is arguably the most impor-tant part of any MOGA model, is a novel and signif-icant contribution of this work.
The present formu-lation of the genotype not only captures a snapshotof the linguistic system, but also explicitly modelsthe course of change that has given rise to the partic-ular system.
Thus, we believe that the current modelis more suitable in explaining a case of linguisticchange.The paper is organized as follows: Sec.
2 intro-duces the problem of historical change affecting theBVIs and presents a mathematical formulation of thesame; Sec.
3 describes the MOGA model; Sec.
4reports the experiments, observations and their in-terpretations; Sec.
5 concludes the paper by sum-marizing the contributions.
In this paper, Bengaligraphemes are represented in Roman script follow-ing the ITRANS notation (Chopde, 2001).
SinceBengali uses a phonemic orthography, the phonemesare also transcribed using ITRANS within two /s.2 The ProblemBengali is an agglutinative language.
There aremore than 150 different inflected forms of a singleAttributes Classical (?0) SCB ACB SylhetiPrS1 kari kori kori koriPrS2 kara karo kara karaPrS3 kare kare kare karePrSF karen karen karen karoinPrC1 kariteChi korChi kartAsi koirtAsiPrC2 kariteCha korCho kartAsa koirtAsaePrC3 kariteChe korChe kartAse koirtAsePrCF kariteChen korChen kartAsen kortAsoinPrP1 kariAChi koreChi korsi koirsiPrP2 kariACha koreCho karsa koirsaePrP3 kariAChe koreChe karse koirsePrPF kariAChen koreChen karsen korsoinTable 1: The different inflected verb forms of Clas-sical Bengali and three other modern dialects.
Allthe forms are in the phonetic forms and for the verbroot kar.
Legend: (tense) Pr ?
present; (aspects) S?
simple, C ?
continuous, P ?
perfect, ; (person) 1?
first, 2 ?
second normal, 3 ?
third, F ?
formal insecond and third persons.
See (Bhattacharya et al,2005) for list of all the forms.verb root in Bengali, which are obtained through af-fixation of one of the 52 inflectional suffixes, option-ally followed by the emphasizers.
The suffixes markfor the tense, aspect, modality, person and polarityinformation (Bhattacharya et al, 2005).
The ori-gin of modern Bengali can be traced back to VedicSanskrit (circa 1500 BC 600 BC), which duringthe middle Indo-Aryan period gave rise to the di-alects like Ma?gadhi?, and Ardhama?gadhi?
(circa600 BC 200 AD), followed by the Ma?gadhi?
?apabhramsha, and finally crystallizing to Bengali(circa 10th century AD) (Chatterji, 1926).
The ver-bal inflections underwent a series of phonologicalchanges during the middle Bengali period (1200 -1800 AD), which gave rise to the several dialectalforms of Bengali, including the standard form ?
theStandard Colloquial Bengali (SCB).The Bengali literature of the 19th century waswritten in the Classical Bengali dialect or thesa?dhubha?sha?
that used the older verb forms anddrew heavily from the Sanskrit vocabulary, eventhough the forms had disappeared from the spokendialects by 17th century.
Here, we shall take the lib-erty to use the terms ?classical forms?
and ?Classi-cal Bengali?
to refer to the dialectal forms of middleBengali and not Classical Bengali of the 19th cen-66tury literature.
Table 1 enlists some of the corre-sponding verb forms of classical Bengali and SCB.Table 3 shows the derivation of some of the currentverb inflections of SCB from its classical counter-parts as reported in (Chatterji, 1926).2.1 Dialect DataPresently, there are several dialects of Bengali thatvary mainly in terms of the verb inflections and in-tonation, but rarely over syntax or semantics.
We donot know of any previous study, during which thedifferent dialectal forms for BVI were collected andsystematically listed.
Therefore, we have collecteddialectal data for the following three modern dialectsof Bengali by enquiring the na?ive informants.?
Standard Colloquial Bengali (SCB) spoken in aregion around Kolkata, the capital of West Ben-gal,?
Agartala Colloquial Bengali (ACB) spoken inand around Agartala, the capital of Tripura, and?
Sylheti, the dialect of the Sylhet region ofBangladesh.Some of the dialectal forms are listed in Table 1.The scope of the current study is restricted to 28 in-flected forms (12 present tense forms + 12 past tenseforms + 4 forms of habitual past) of a single verbroot, i.e., kar.2.2 Problem FormulationChoudhury et al (2006a) has shown that a sequenceof simple phonological changes, which we shallcall the Atomic Phonological Operators or APO forshort, when applied to the classical Bengali lexicon,gives rise to the modern dialects.
We conceive offour basic types of APOs, namely Del or deletion,Met or metathesis, Asm or assimilation, and Mutor mutation.
The complete specification of an APOincludes specification of its type, the phoneme(s)that is(are) affected by the operation and the left andright context of application of the operator specifiedas regular expressions on phonemes.
The seman-tics of the basic APOs in terms of rewrite rules areshown in Table 2.2.
Since Bengali features assim-ilation only with respect to vowel height, here weshall interpret Asm(p, LC,RC) as the height as-similation of the vowel p in the context of LC orAPO SemanticsDel(p, LC,RC) p?
?/LC?RCMet(pipj , LC,RC) pipj ?
pjpi/LC?RCAsm(p, LC,RC) p?
p?/LC?RCMut(p, p?, LC,RC) p?
p?/LC?RCTable 2: Semantics of the basic APOs in terms ofrewrite rules.
LC and RC are regular expressionsspecifying the left and right contexts respectively.
p,p?, pi and pj represent phonemes.Rule APO Example DerivationsNo.
kar ?
iteChe kar ?
iten kar ?
iAChi1 Del(e, ?, Ch) kar ?
itChe NA NA2 Del(t, ?, Ch) kar ?
iChe NA NA3 Met(ri, ?, ?)
kair ?
Che kair ?
ten kair ?AChi5 Mut(A, e, ?, Ch) NA NA kair-eChi6 Asm(a, i, ?, ?)
koir ?
Che koir ?
ten koir ?
eChi7 Del(i, o, ?)
kor ?
Che kor ?
ten kor ?
eChiTable 3: Derivations of the verb forms of SCB fromclassical Bengali using APOs.
?NA?
means the ruleis not applicable for the form.
See (Choudhury etal., 2006a) for the complete list of APOs involved inthe derivation of SCB and ACB formsRC.
Also, we do not consider epenthesis or inser-tion as an APO, because epenthesis is not observedfor the case of the change affecting BVI.The motivation behind defining APOs rather thanrepresenting the change in terms of rewrite rules isas follows.
Rewrite rules are quite expressive andtherefore, it is possible to represent complex phono-logical changes using a single rewrite rule.
On theother hand, APOs are simple phonological changesthat can be explained independently in terms of pho-netic factors (Ohala, 1993).
In fact, there are alsocomputational models satisfactorily accounting forcases of vowel deletion (Choudhury et al, 2004;Choudhury et al, 2006b) and assimilation (Dras etal., 2003).Table 3 shows the derivation of the SCB verbforms from classical Bengali in terms of APOs.
Thederivations are constructed based on the data pro-vided in (Chatterji, 1926).2.3 Functional Explanation for Change of BVILet ?0 be the lexicon of classical Bengali verbforms.
Let ?
: ?1, ?2, ?
?
?
?r be a sequence of rAPOs.
Application of an APO on a lexicon impliesthe application of the operator on every word of the67lexicon.
The sequence of operators ?, thus, repre-sent a dialect obtained through the process of changefrom ?0, which can be represented as follows.?
(?0) = ?r(?
?
?
?2(?1(?0)) ?
?
?)
= ?dThe derivation of the dialect ?d from ?0 can be con-structed by following the APOs in the sequence oftheir application.We propose the following functional explanationfor the change of BVI.A sequence of APOs, ?
is preferred if ?
(?0) hassome functional benefit over ?0.
Thus, the modernBengali dialects are those, which have some func-tional advantage over the classical dialect.We would like to emphasize the word ?some?
inthe aforementioned statements, because the moderndialects are not better than the classical one (i.e., theancestor language) in an absolute sense.
Rather, theclassical dialect is suboptimal compared to the mod-ern dialects only with respect to ?some?
of the func-tional forces and is better than the them with respectto ?some other?
forces.
Stated differently, we expectboth the classical as well as the modern dialects ofBengali to be Pareto-optimal3 with respect to the setof functional forces.In order to validate the aforementioned hypoth-esis, we carry out a multi-objective and multi-constraint optimization over the possible dialectalforms of Bengali, thereby obtaining the Pareto-optimal set, which has been achieved throughMOGA.3 The MOGA ModelSpecification of a problem within the MOGA frame-work requires the definition of the genotype, phe-notype and genotype-to-phenotype mapping plus theobjective functions and constraints.
In this section,we discuss the design choices explored for the prob-lem of BVI.3Consider an optimization problem with n objective func-tions f1 to fn, where we want to minimize all the objectives.Let S be the solution space, representing the set of all possiblesolutions.
A soulution sinS is said to be Pareto-optimal with re-spect to the objective functions f1 to fn, if and only if there doesnot exist any other solution s?
?
S such that fi(s?)
?
fi(s) forall 1 ?
i ?
n and fi(s?)
< fi(s) for at least one i.3.1 Phenotype and GenotypeWe define the phenotype of a dialect d to be the lex-icon of the dialect, ?d, consisting of the 28 inflectedforms of the root verb kar.
This choice of phenotypeis justified because, at the end of the optimizationprocess, we would like to obtain the Pareto-optimaldialects of Bengali and compare them with their realcounterparts.The genotype of a dialect d could also be definedas ?d, where the word forms are the genes.
How-ever, for such a choice of genotype, crossover andmutation lead to counter-intuitive results.
For ex-ample, mutation would affect only a single word inthe lexicon, which is against the regularity principleof sound change (see Bhat (2001) for explanation).Similarly, exchanging a set of words between a pairof lexica, as crossover would lead to, seems insensi-ble.Therefore, considering the basic properties ofsound change as well as the genetic operators usedin MOGA, we define a chromosome (and thus thegenotype) as a sequence of APOs.
The salient fea-tures of the genotype are described below.?
Gene: A gene is defined as an APO.
Since inorder to implement the MOGA, every gene must bemapped to a number, we have chosen an 8-bit binaryrepresentation for a gene.
This allows us to spec-ify 256 distinct genes or APOs.
However, for rea-sons described below, we use the first bit of a geneto denote whether the gene (i.e., the APO) is active(the bit is set to 1) or not.
Thus, we are left with128 distinct choices for APOs.
Since the number ofwords in the lexicon is only 28, the APOs for Del,Asm andMet are limited, even after accounting forthe various contexts in which an APO is applicable.Nevertheless, there are numerous choices for Mut.To restrain the possible repertoire of APOs to 128,we avoided any APO related to the mutation of con-sonants.
This allowed us to design a comprehensiveset of APOs that are applicable on the classical Ben-gali lexicon and its derivatives.?
Chromosome: A chromosome is a sequence of15 genes.
The number 15 has been arrived throughexperimentation, where we have observed that in-creasing the length of a chromosome beyond 15does not yield richer results for the current choiceof APOs and ?0.
Since the probability of any gene68Figure 1: Schematic of genotype, phenotype andgenotype-to-phenotype mapping.being switched off (i.e., the first bit being 0) is 0.5,the expected number of active APOs on a chromo-some with 15 genes is 7.5.
It is interesting to notethat this value is almost equal to the number of APOsrequired (7 to be precise) for derivation of the SCBverb forms.?
Genotype to phenotype mapping: Let for a givenchromosome, the set of active APOs (whose first bitis 1) in sequence be ?1, ?2, ?
?
?
, ?r.
Then the pheno-type corresponding to this chromosome is the lex-icon ?d = ?r(?
?
?
?2(?1(?0)) ?
?
?).
In other words,the phenotype is the lexicon obtained by successiveapplication of the active APOs on the chromosomeon the lexicon of classical Bengali.The concepts of gene, chromosome and the map-ping from genotype to the phenotype are illustratedin Fig.
3.1.
It is easy to see that the regularity hy-pothesis regarding the sound change holds good forthe aforementioned choice of genotype.
Further-more, crossover in this context can be interpreted asa shift in the course of language change.
Similarly,mutation of the first bit turns a gene on or off, and ofthe other bits changes the APO.
Note that accordingto this formulation, a chromosome not only modelsa dialect, but also the steps of its evolution from theclassical forms.3.2 Objectives and ConstraintsFormulation of the objective functions and con-straints are crucial to the model, because the linguis-tic plausibility, computational tractability and the re-sults of the model are overtly dependent on them.We shall define here three basic objectives of easeof articulation, perceptual contrast and learnability,which can be expressed as functions or constraints.Several models have been proposed in the past forestimating the articulatory effort (Boersma (1998),Ch.
2, 5 and 7) and perceptual distance betweenphonemes and/or syllables (Boersma (1998), Ch.3, 4 and 8).
Nevertheless, as we are interested inmodeling the effort and perceptual contrast of thewhole lexicon rather than a syllable, we have cho-sen to work with simpler formulations of the objec-tive functions.
Due to paucity of space, we are notable to provide adequate details and justification forthe choices made.3.2.1 fe: Articulatory EffortArticulatory effort of a lexicon ?
is a positive realnumber that gives an estimate of the effort requiredto articulate the words in ?
in some unit.
If fe de-notes the effort function, thenfe(?)
=1|?|?w?
?fe(w) (1)The term fe(w) depends on three parameters: 1)the length of w in terms of phonemes, 2) the struc-ture of the syllables, and 3) the features of adjacentphonemes, as they control the effort spent in co-articulation.
We define fe(w) to be a weighted sumof these three.fe(w) = ?1fe1(w) + ?2fe2(w) + ?3fe3(w) (2)where, ?1 = 1, ?2 = 1 and ?3 = 0.1 are the relativeweights.The value of fe1 is simply the length of the word,that isfe1(w) = |w| (3)Suppose ?
= ?1?2 ?
?
?
?k is the usual syllabifica-tion of w, where the usual or optimal syllabificationfor Bengali is defined similar to that of Hindi as de-scribed in (Choudhury et al, 2004).
Then, fe2 isdefined as follows.fe2(w) =k?i=1hr(?i) (4)hr(?)
measures the hardness of the syllable ?
and isa function of the syllable structure (i.e.
the CV pat-tern) of ?.
The values of hr(?)
for different syllablestructures are taken from (Choudhury et al, 2004).69Since vowel height assimilation is the primaryco-articulation phenomenon observed across the di-alects of Bengali, we define fe3 so as to modelonly the effort required due to the difference in theheights of the adjacent vowels.Let there be n vowels in w represented by Vi,where 1 ?
i ?
n. Then fe3 is defined by the fol-lowing equation.fe3(w) =n?1?i=1|ht(Vi)?
ht(Vi+1)| (5)The function ht(Vi) is the tongue height associ-ated with the vowel Vi.
The value of the functionht(Vi) for the vowels /A/, /a/, /E/ /o/, /e/, /i/and /u/ are 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, and 3 respectively.
Notethat the values are indicative of the ordering of thevowels with respect to tongue height, and do not re-flect the absolute height of the tongue in any sense.3.2.2 fd and Cd: Acoustic DistinctivenessWe define the acoustic distinctiveness betweentwo words wi and wj as the edit distance betweenthem, which is denoted as ed(wi, wj).
The cost ofinsertion and deletion of any phoneme is assumed tobe 1; the cost of substitution of a vowel (consonant)for a vowel (consonant) is also 1, whereas that of avowel (consonant) for a consonant (vowel) is 2, ir-respective of the phonemes being compared.
Sincelanguages are expected to increase the acoustic dis-tinctiveness between the words, we define a mini-mizing objective function fd over a lexicon ?
as thesum of the inverse of the edit distance between allpair of words in ?.fd(?)
=2|?|(|?| ?
1)?ij,i6=jed(wi, wj)?1 (6)If for any pair of words wi and wj , ed(wi, wj) =0, we redefine ed(wi, wj)?1 as 20 (a large penalty).We say that a lexicon ?
violates the acoustic dis-tinctiveness constraintCd, if there are more than twopairs of words in ?, which are identical.3.2.3 Cp: Phonotactic constraintsA lexicon ?
is said to violate the constraint Cp ifany of the words in ?
violates the phonotactic con-straints of Bengali.
As described in (Choudhury etal., 2004), the PCs are defined at the level of sylla-ble onsets and codas and therefore, syllabification isa preprocessing step before evaluation of Cp.3.2.4 fr and Cr: RegularityAlthough learnability is a complex notion, onecan safely equate the learnability of a system to theregularity of the patterns within the system.
In fact,in the context of morphology, it has been observedthat the so called learning bottleneck has a regular-izing effect on the morphological structures, therebyleaving out only the most frequently used roots tobehave irregularly (Hare and Elman, 1995; Kirby,2001).In the present context, we define the regularityof the verb forms in a lexicon as the predictabilityof the inflectional suffix on the basis of the mor-phological attributes.
Brighton et al (2005) discussthe use of Pearson correlation between phonologi-cal edit distance and semantic/morphological ham-ming distance measures as a metric for learnabil-ity.
On a similar note, we define the regularity func-tion fr as follows.
For two words wi, wj ?
?, the(dis)similarity between them is given by ed(wi, wj).Let ma(wi, wj) be the number of morphological at-tributes shared by wi and wj .
We define the reg-ularity of ?, fr(?
), as the Pearson correlation co-efficient between ed(wi, wj) and ma(wi, wj) forall pairs of words in ?.
Note that for a regularlexicon, ed(wi, wj) decreases with an increase inma(wi, wj).
Therefore, fr(?)
is negative for a reg-ular lexicon and 0 or positive for an irregular one.In other words, fr(?)
is also a minimizing objectivefunction.We also define a regularity constraint Cr, suchthat a lexicon ?
violates Cr if fr(?)
> ?0.8.4 Experiments and ObservationsIn order to implement the MOGA model, we haveused the Non-dominated Sorting GA-II or NSGA-II (Deb et al, 2002), which is a multi-objective,multi-constraint elitist GA.
Different MOGA mod-els have been incrementally constructed by intro-ducing the different objectives and constraints.
Themotivation behind the incorporation of a new ob-jective or constraint comes from the observationsmade on the emergent dialects of the previous mod-els.
For instance, with two objectives fe and fd,70and no constraints, we obtain dialects that violatephonotactic constraints or/and are highly irregular.One such example of an emergent dialect4 is ?
={ kor, kara, kar, kore, korea, kore, karA, karAa,karA, *korAlm, *korl, korla, *koreAlm, korel, ko-rela, *karAlm, karAl, karAla }.
The * marked formsviolate the phonotactic constraints.
Also note thatthe forms are quite indistinct or close to each other.These observations led to the formulation of the con-straints Cp and Cd.Through a series of similar experiments, finallywe arrived at a model, where we could observe theemergence of dialects, some of which closely resem-ble the real dialects and others also seem linguisti-cally plausible.
In this final model, there are twoobjectives, fe and fd, and 3 constraints, Cp, Cd andCr.
Table 4 lists the corresponding forms of someof the emergent dialects, whose real counterparts areshown in Table 1.Fig.
2 shows the Pareto-optimal front obtainedfor the aforementioned model after 500 generations,with a population size of 1000.
Since the objectivesare minimizing in nature, the area on the plot belowand left of the Pareto-optimal front represents im-possible languages, whereas the area to the right andtop of the curve pertains to unstable or suboptimallanguages.
It is interesting to note that the four realdialects lie very close to the Pareto-optimal front.
Infact, ACB and SCB lie on the front, whereas clas-sical Bengali and Sylheti appears to be slightly sub-optimal.
Nevertheless, one should always be awarethat impossibility and suboptimality are to be inter-preted in the context of the model and any general-ization or extrapolation of these concepts for the reallanguages is controversial and better avoided.Several inferences can be drawn from the exper-iments with the MOGA models.
We have observedthat the Pareto-optimal fronts for all the MOGAModels look like rectangular hyperbola with a hori-zontal and vertical limb; the specific curve of Fig.
2satisfies the equation:fd(?)0.3(fe(?)?
5.6) = 0.26 (7)Several interesting facts, can be inferred from theabove equation.
First, the minimum value of fe un-der the constraints Cr and Cd, and for the given4Due to space constraints, we intentionally omit the corre-sponding classical forms.Figure 2: The Pareto-optimal front.
The gray trian-gles (light blue in colored version available online)show the position of the real dialects: 0 ?
Classi-cal Bengali, 1 ?
SCB, 2 ?
ACB, 3 ?
Sylheti.
Thetop-most dot in the plot corresponds to the emergentdialect D0 shown in Table 4.repertoire of APOs is 5.6.
Second, at fe(?)
= 6,the slope of the front, i.e.
dfd/dfe, is approximately?2, and the second derivative d2fd/df2e is around20.
This implies that there is sharp transition be-tween the vertical and horizontal limbs at aroundfe(?)
= 6.Interestingly, all the real dialects studied here lieon the horizontal limb of the Pareto-optimal front(i.e., fe(?)
?
6), classical Bengali being placed atthe extreme right.
We also note the negative corre-lation between the value of fe for the real dialects,and the number of APOs invoked during derivationof these dialects from classical Bengali.
These factstogether imply that the natural direction of languagechange in the case of BVIs has been along the hor-izontal limb of the Pareto-optimal front, leading tothe formation of dialects with higher and higher ar-ticulatory ease.
Among the four dialects, SCB hasthe minimum value for fe(?)
and it is positioned onthe horizontal limb of the front just before the begin-ning of the vertical limb.Therefore, it is natural to ask whether there areany real dialects of modern Bengali that lie on thevertical limb of the Pareto-optimal front; and if not,what may be the possible reasons behind their inex-istence?
In the absence of any comprehensive col-lection of Bengali dialects, we do not have a clearanswer to the above questions.
Nevertheless, it may71Attributes D0 D1 D2 D3PrS1 kar kor kori koriPrS2 kara kora kora koraPrS3 kare kore kore korAPrSF karen koren koren korenPrC1 kartA karChi karteChi kairteChiPrC2 kartAa karCha karteCha kairteChaPrC3 kartAe karChe karteChe kairteChAPrCF kartAen karChen karteChen kairteChenPrP1 karA korChi koriChi koriChAiPrP2 karAa korCha koriCha koriAChaPrP3 karAe korChe koriChe koriAChAPrPF karAen korChen koriChen koriAChenTable 4: Examples of emergent dialects in theMOGA model.
Note that the dialects D1, D2 andD3 resemble SCB, ACB and Sylheti, whereas D0seems to be linguistically implausible.
For legends,refer to Table 1be worthwhile to analyze the emergent dialects ofthe MOGA models that lie on the vertical limb.
Wehave observed that the vertical limb consists of di-alects similar to D0 ?
the one shown in the firstcolumn of Table 4.
Besides poor distinctiveness,D0 also features a large number of diphthongs thatmight result in poorer perception or higher effort ofarticulation of the forms.
Thus, in order to eliminatethe emergence of such seemingly implausible casesin the model, the formulations of the objectives feand fd require further refinements.Similarly, it can also be argued that the structureof the whole lexicon, which has not been modeledhere, has also a strong effect on the BVIs.
This isbecause even though we have measured the acous-tic distinctiveness fd with respect to the 28 inflectedforms of a single verb root kar, ideally fd should becomputed with respect to the entire lexicon.
Thus,change in other lexical items (borrowing or extinc-tion of words or change in the phonological struc-tures) can trigger or restrain an event of change inthe BVIs.Furthermore, merging, extinction or appearenceof morphological attributes can also have significanteffects on the phonological change of inflections.
Itis interesting to note that while Vedic Sanskrit haddifferent morphological markers for three numbers(singular, dual and plural) and no gender markersfor the verbs, Hindi makes a distinction between thegenders (masculine and feminine) as well as num-bers (but only singular and plural), and Bengali hasmarkers for neither gender nor number.
Since bothHindi and Bengali are offshoots of Vedic Sanskrit,presumably the differences between the phonologi-cal structure of the verb inflections of these two lan-guages must have also been affected by the loss oraddition of morphological attributes.
It would be in-teresting to study the precise nature of the interac-tion between the inflections and attributes within thecurrent computational framework, which we deemto be a future extension of this work.5 ConclusionsIn this paper, we have described a MOGA basedmodel for the morpho-phonological change of BVIs.The salient contributions of the work include: (1) theconception of the genotype as a sequence of APOs,whereby we have been able to capture not only theemergent dialects, but also the path towards theiremergence, and (2) a plausible functional explana-tion for the morpho-phonological changes affectingthe BVIs.
Nevertheless, the results of the experi-ments with the MOGA models must be interpretedwith caution.
This is because, the results are verymuch dependent on the formulation of the fitnessfunctions and the choice of the constraints.
The setof APOs in the repertoire also play a major role inshaping the Pareto-optimal front of the model.Before we conclude, we would like to re-emphasize that the model proposed here is a func-tional one, and it does not tell us how the dialectsof Bengali have self-organized themselves to strikea balance between the functional pressures, if at allthis had been the case.
The evolutionary algorithm(i.e., MOGA) has been used here as a tool for op-timization, and has no relevance to the evolution ofthe dialects as such.
Nevertheless, if it is possibleto provide linguistically grounded accounts of thesources of variation and the process of selection,then the MOGA model could qualify as an evolu-tionary explanation of language change as well.
Al-though such models have been proposed in the liter-ature (Croft, 2000; Baxter et al, 2006), the fact, thatglobal optimization can be an outcome of local inter-actions between the speakers (e.g., Kirby (1999), de72Boer (2001), Choudhury et al (2006b)), alone pro-vides sufficient ground to believe that there is also anunderlying self-organizational model for the presentfunctional explanation.ReferencesG.
J. Baxter, R. A. Blythe, W. Croft, and A. J. McKane.2006.
Utterance selection model of language change.Physical Review E, 73(046118).D.N.S.
Bhat.
2001.
Sound Change.
Motilal Banarsidass,New Delhi.S.
Bhattacharya, M. Choudhury, S. Sarkar, and A. Basu.2005.
Inflectional morphology synthesis for bengalinoun, pronoun and verb systems.
In Proc.
of NCCPB,pages 34?43, Dhaka.Julia Blevins.
2004.
Evolutionary Phonology.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, MA.P.
Boersma.
1998.
Functional Phonology: Formaliz-ing the interactions between articulatory and percep-tual drives.
Uitgave van Holland Academic Graphics,Hague.Henry Brighton, Kenny Smith, and Simon Kirby.
2005.Language as an evolutionary system.
Physics of LifeReviews, 2(3):177?226, September.A.
Cangelosi and D. Parisi.
2002.
Comuputer simula-tion: A new scientific approach to the study of lan-guage evolution.
In Simulating the Evolution of Lan-guage, pages 3?28.
Springer Verlag, London.S.
K. Chatterji.
1926.
The Origin and Development ofthe Bengali Language.
Rupa and Co., New Delhi.A.
Chopde.
2001.
Itrans version 5.30: A packagefor printing text in indian languages using english-encoded input.
http://www.aczoom.com/itrans/.M.
Choudhury, A. Basu, and S. Sarkar.
2004.
A di-achronic approach for schwa deletion in indo-aryanlanguages.
In Proc.
of ACL SIGPHON-04, pages 20?26, Barcelona.M.
Choudhury, M. Alam, S. Sarkar, and A. Basu.2006a.
A rewrite rule based model of bangla morpho-phonological change.
In Proc.
of ICCPB, pages 64?71, Dhaka.M.
Choudhury, A. Basu, and S. Sarkar.
2006b.
Multi-agent simulation of emergence of the schwa deletionpattern in hindi.
JASSS, 9(2).W.
Croft.
2000.
Explaining Language Change: An Evo-lutionary Approach.
Longman Linguistic Library.B.
de Boer.
2001.
The Origins of Vowel Systems.
OxfordUniversity Press.K.
Deb, A. Pratap, S. Agarwal, and T. Meyarivan.
2002.A fast and elitist multi-objective genetic algorithm:NSGA-II.
IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Com-putation, 6:182?197.M.
Dras, D. Harrison, and B. Kapicioglu.
2003.
Emer-gent behavior in phonological pattern change.
In Arti-ficial Life VIII.
MIT Press.David E. Goldberg.
1989.
Genetic Algorithms in Search,Optimization and Machine Learning.
Addison-Wesley.M.
Hare and J. L. Elman.
1995.
Learning and morpho-logical change.
Cognition, 56(1):61?98, July.M.
D. Hauser, N. Chomsky, and W. T. Fitch.
2002.
Thefaculty of language: What is it, who has it, and howdid it evolve?
Science, 298:1569?1579, 11.John H. Holland.
1975.
Adaptation in Natural and Arti-ficial Systems.
The University of Michigan Press, AnnArbor.Jinyun Ke, Mieko Ogura, and William S-Y.
Wang.
2003.Modeling evolution of sound systems with genetic al-gorithm.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):1?18.S.
Kirby.
1999.
Function, Selection and Innateness: theEmergence of Language Universals.
Oxford Univer-sity Press.
The full-text is only a sample (chapter 1: APuzzle of Fit).S.
Kirby.
2001.
Spontaneous evolution of linguisticstructure: an iterated learning model of the emergenceof regularity and irregularity.
IEEE Transactions onEvolutionary Computation, 5(2):102?110.Anthony Kroch.
2001.
Syntactic change.
In Mark baltinand Chris Collins, editors, Handbook of Syntax, pages699?729.
Blackwell.P.
Niyogi.
2006.
The Computational Nature of LanguageLearning and Evolution.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.J.
Ohala.
1993.
The phonetics of sound change.
InC. Jones, editor, Historical linguistics: Problems andperspectives, page 237278.
Longman, London.A.
Perfors.
2002.
Simulated evolution of language: areview of the field.
Journal of Artificial Societies andSocial Simulation, 5(2).T.
Poibeau.
2006.
Linguistically grounded models oflanguage change.
In Proc.
of CogSci 2006, pages 255?276.73Melissa A. Redford and R. L. Diehl.
1999.
The rela-tive perceptibility of syllable-initial and syllable-finalconsonants.
Journal of Acoustic Society of America,106:1555?1565.Melissa A. Redford, Chun Chi Chen, and Risto Mi-ikkulainen.
2001.
Constrained emergence of univer-sals and variation in syllable systems.
Language andSpeech, 44:27?56.Melissa A. Redford.
1999.
An Articulatory Basis forthe Syllable.
Ph.D. thesis, Psychology, University ofTexas, Austin.L.
Steels.
1997.
The synthetic modeling of languageorigins.
Evolution of Communication, 1(1):1?34.W.
S-Y.
Wang, J. Ke, and J. W. Minett.
2005.
Computa-tional studies of language evolution.
In ComputationalLinguistics and Beyond: Perspectives at the beginningof the 21st Century, Frontiers in Linguistics 1.
Lan-guage and Linguistics.74
