Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Morphology and Phonology, pages 126?133,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsDynamic Correspondences: An Object-Oriented Approach toTracking Sound ReconstructionsTyler PetersonUniversity of British ColumbiaE270-1866 Main MallVancouver, BC, Canada V6T-1Z1tylerrp@interchange.ubc.caGessiane Picanc?oUniversidade Federal do Para?Bele?m ?
Para?
?
BrasilCEP 66075-110picanco.g@hotmail.comAbstractThis paper reports the results of a re-search project that experiments with cross-tabulation in aiding phonemic reconstruc-tion.
Data from the Tup??
stock was used,and three tests were conducted in order todetermine the efficacy of this application:the confirmation and challenging of a previ-ously established reconstruction in the fam-ily; testing a new reconstruction generatedby our model; and testing the upper limitof simultaneous, multiple correspondencesacross several languages.
Our conclusionis that the use of cross tabulations (imple-mented within a database as pivot tables) of-fers an innovative and effective tool in com-parative study and sound reconstruction.1 IntroductionIn the past decade databases have transitioned from auseful resource as a searchable repository of linguis-tic tokens of some type, to an actual tool capable ofnot only organising vast amounts of data, but execut-ing complex statistical functions and queries on thedata it stores.
These advances in database technol-ogy complement those made in computational lin-guistics, and both have recently begun to convergeon the domain of comparative and historical linguis-tic research.This paper contributes to this line of researchthrough describing the database project Base de Da-dos para Estudos Comparativos ?
Tup??
(BDEC-T)(Database for Comparative Studies ?
Tup??
), whichis part of a larger research program investigatingthe phonemic reconstruction of the Tup??
languages.The database component of the BDEC-T is designedto capitalise on the functionality of cross-tabulationtables, commonly known as pivot tables, a recentinnovation in the implementation SQL queries inmany database and spreadsheet applications.
Pivottables can be described as an ?object-oriented?
rep-resentation of SQL statements in the sense thatcolumns of data are treated as objects, which al-low the user to create multidimensional views of thedata by ?dragging and dropping?
columns into var-ious sorting arrangements.
We have found that thisdynamic, multidimensional manipulation of the datacan greatly aid the researcher in identifying relation-ships and correspondences that are otherwise diffi-cult to summarize by other query types.In this paper we report on the results of an ex-periment that tests the applicability of pivot tablesto language data, in particular, the comparative andhistorical reconstruction of the proto-phonemes in alanguage family.
In doing this, three tests were con-ducted:1.
The confirmation and challenging of a ?man-ual?
and/or previously established reconstruc-tion of a proto-language, Proto-Tup??;2.
The testing of a new reconstruction generatedby our model, and checking it against a manualreconstruction;3.
The testing the upper limit of simultaneous,multiple correspondences across several lan-guages.126It is argued that this type of object-oriented im-plementation of SQL statements using pivot tables,offers two unique features: the first is the abil-ity to check several one-to-one and one-to-manycorrespondences simultaneously across several lan-guages; and secondly, the ability to dynamically sur-vey the language-internal distribution of segmentsand their features.The former feature represents a notable advan-tage over other ?manual?
methods, as the recon-structed forms may be entered in the database asproto-languages, which can be continually revisedand tested against all other languages.
The latter fea-ture offers the ability to check the language-internaldistribution of the (proto-)segments which will aidin preventing possible cases of skewed occurrences,as is shown below.
Basic statistical analyses, suchas numbers of occurrences, can also be reported,graphed and plotted by the pivot tables, thus provid-ing further details of individual languages and proto-languages, and, ultimately, a more quantitatively re-liable analysis.The net outcome of this is the presentation of apractical methodology that is easily and quickly im-plementable, and that makes use of a function thatmany people already have with their database orspreadsheet.1.1 The DataThe Tup??
stock of language families is concentratedin the Amazon river basin of Brazil (and areasof neighbouring countries) and comprises 10 fam-ilies of languages: Arike?m, Awet?
?, Juruna, Mawe?,Monde?, Munduruku?, Purubora?, Ramarama, Tupar?
?,and Tup??-Guaran??
(Rodrigues 1958; revised in Ro-drigues 1985), totaling approximately 64 languages.Tup??-Guaran??
is the largest family with more than 40languages, while the other families range from onelanguage (e.g.
Awet?
?, Purubora?)
to six languages(e.g.
Monde?).
From these, the Tup??-Guaran??
familyis the only family that has been mostly analized froma historical point of view (e.g.
Lemle 1971, Jensen1989, Schleicher 1998, Mello 2000, etc.
); there isalso a proposal for Proto-Tupar??
(Tupar??
family), byMoore and Galu?cio (1993), and Proto-Munduruku?(Munduruku?
family), by Picanc?o (2005).
A prelim-inary reconstruction at level of the Tup??
stock wasproposed by Rodrigues (1995), in which he recon-structs a list of 67 items for Proto-Tup??
(see furtherdetails below).
The BDEC-T also includes thesereconstructed languages, as they allow us to com-pare the results obtained from the database with theresults of previous, manual historical-comparativestudies.2 The Application: Design and MethodThe BDEC-T was initially developed as repositorydatabase for language data from various Tup??
lan-guages described above, with the purpose of allow-ing the user to generate lists of word and phonemecorrespondences through standard boolean searchqueries or SQL statements.
These lists aided theresearcher in exploring different correspondences inthe course of a proto-phoneme or word reconstruc-tion.
The BDEC-T is implemented within MS Ac-cess 2003, which provides the user an interface forentering language data that is then externally linkedto tab-delimited text files in order to preserve itsdeclarative format.1 This also allowed flexibility inaccessing the data for whatever purpose in the plat-form or program of the researcher?s choosing.At present, the BDEC-T for the Tup??
stock con-tains a glossary of 813 words and up to 3,785 entriesdistributed across 15 Tup?
?an languages.
Approxi-mately 18% of this 813-word list appear to have cog-nates in the majority of languages entered so far, andwhich can be used as reference for a reliable set ofrobust cognates across the entire Tup??
stock.2 Thisnumber is continually increasing as more languagesare entered in the database, and at least 50% of theglossary is filled up for all languages.
The averagenumber of entries for each language varies consid-erably as it depends largely on available sources;yet, in general, the average is of approximately 250words per language (i.e.
about 30%).1The choice of using a proprietary database such as MS Ac-cess is mostly a practical one: after considering various fac-tors such as programming, maintenance, distribution and otherpractical issues, we decided that a database of this type shouldbe useable by researchers with little or no programming expe-rience, as it is fairly easy to learn and modify (see also Bre-denkamp, Sadler and Spencer (1998: 149) for similar argu-ments).
It should also be noted that all the procedures outlinedhere are implementable in open source database and spreadsheetprograms such as OpenOffice Calc and Base (vers.
2.3).2There is a separate function in the BDEC-T for assessingand tracking cognates and how they map to semantic sets (seePeterson 2007a for details).1272.1 Data entry and SegmentationEach of the 65 languages and 4 proto-languages inBDEC-T is associated with its own data entry form.Each data entry form is divided into three mainparts:1.
The word entry fields where the word for thatlanguage is entered (along with two other op-tional features);2.
The comparison viewer that contains fieldswhich simultaneously display that same wordin the all the other languages in the database;3.
The segmentation section which contains an ar-rangement fields for recording segment data.The structure of the stored data is straightforward:the data entered in these forms is stored in a mastertable where all of the languages are represented ascolumns.
Glosses are the rows, where each glossis assigned a unique, autogenerated number in themaster record when it is entered into the database.This serves as the primary key for all the translationsof that gloss across all of the languages.The third component of the language data entryform, the segmentation section (Fig.
1), contains alinear arrangement of ten columns, S1 to S10, andthree rows, each cell of which corresponds to a field.The first row of the ten columns are fields where theuser can enter in the segmentation of that particu-lar word, which contains the segments themselves.The second and third rows correspond to optionalfeatures (F) that are associated with that segment.In this particular version F1 is unused, while F2encodes syllable structure (i.e.
?O?
onset, ?N?
nu-cleus).3For example, Figure 1 is a screenshot of a portionof the segmentation section in the language data en-try form for Munduruku?.
The word being entered is?moon?, and the word in Munduruku?
is ka?Si.
Seg-ment slots S3 to S6 are used to segment the word.As a convention, a word will typically be seg-mented starting with the S3 slot, and not with S1.The reason for this is to allow for at least two seg-ment fields (S1 and S2) to accommodate cognates in3There is no restriction on the kind of information that canbe stored in the two Feature fields.
However, in order for themto be useful, they would need to contain a limited set of compa-rable features across all the languages.Figure 1: Screenshot of a portion of the Segmenta-tion section in the Munduruku?
Data entry form.Segmentation slot S1 S2 S3 S4 S5Ava?-Canoeiro 1 t 1Guaja?
w 1 t 1Arawete?
i w i t 1Table 1: Segmentation of ?wind?other languages that have segments that occur beforeS3, but are entered into the database at a later time.This is done in order to maintain a consistency be-tween correspondences, regardless of what slot theyare in the data base.
In other words, we need to beprepared to handle cases that are shown in Tables 1and 2 above.
If the Ava?
Canoeiro word for ?wind?
isentered first in Table 1, it is prudent to have segmentslots available for languages that are entered laterthat may have additional segments occurring before.Guaja?
and Arawete?
were entered into the databaseafter Ava?
Canoeiro, and both have additional seg-ments.
Keeping S1 and S2 available as a generalrule can accommodate these cases.Our purpose in designing the segmentation com-ponent of the form this way was to give the re-searcher complete control over how words are seg-mented.
This also allows the researcher to cross-check their segmentations in real time with those inthe other languages already in the database, whichcan be done in the comparison viewer (not showndue to space limitations).
This is essential for morecomplicated cases, such as those in Table 2, wherethere are not only word edge mismatches, but alsogaps and (grammaticalized) morphological bound-aries that need to be properly corresponded.
Thesignificance of this will be demonstrated below.44Cases where gaps result in languages already enteredwould require the user to go back to the other languages enteredand re-segment them to include the corresponding gap.
Thiswould be the case if 1ap was entered without the gap in S3 be-fore the other languages in Table 2.
This is facilitated within thedatabase: multiple language forms can be open simultaneously,128Segmentation slot S1 S2 S3 S4 S5Ava?-Canoeiro 1 a pGuaja?
u ?
1Mbya?
h ?
u P 1Kamayura?
h 1 P 1 pTable 2: Segmentation of ?arrow?The data entered in the segmentation section ofa language?s data entry form is stored in language-specific tables, which has columns for each of theten segments, and columns recording the two op-tional features associated with that segment.
Allof the segment data in the language-specific tablesare coordinated by the primary key generated andkept in the master table.
The next subsection de-scribes how this segmental data can be used in twospecific ways: 1) to track correspondences betweenlanguages for a particular cognate or segment slot;and 2), for monitoring the language-internal distri-bution of segments.
We propose that this is achievedthrough using cross-tabulations of the segment datarecorded in each column, and outline a practical im-plementation of this is using pivot tables.2.2 Cross-tabulation: ?Pivot tables?Access 2003 includes a graphical implementationof SQL statements in the form of cross tabulations,or pivot tables, which provide the user an interfacewith which they can manipulate multiple columnsof data to create dynamic, multi-dimensional orga-nizations of the data.
There are three basic reasonsfor organizing data into a pivot table, all of whichare relevant to the task at hand: first, to summa-rize data contained in lengthy lists into a compactformat; secondly, to find relationships within thatdata that are otherwise hard to see because of theamount of detail; and thirdly, to organize the datainto a format that is easy to chart.
Pivot tables are dy-namic because columns of data are treated as objectsthat can be moved, or literally ?swapped?
in, out ouraround in relation to other columns.
They are multi-dimensional because column data can be organizedalong either axis, yielding different ?snapshots?
ofthe data.
It is this kind of functionality that willbe capitalised on in examining correspondences be-or switched between by the master switchboard.tween columns of segment data (S1-10) across anynumber of languages in the database.A cross tabulation displays the joint distributionof two or more variables.
They are usually presentedas a contingency table which describes the distribu-tion of two or more variables simultaneously.
Thus,cross tabulation allows us to examine frequenciesof observations that belong to specific categories onmore than one variable.
By examining these fre-quencies, we can identify relations between cross-tabulated variables.
Typically, only variables with arelatively small number of different meaningful val-ues are cross tabulated.
We suggest that phonemesfit this criteria, as there is a finite and relatively lownumber of total unique phonemes that can ever bepotentially cross tabulated.For example, Figure 2 (below) is a screen shot ofa pivot table generated in the BDEC-T that showsthe distribution of word and morpheme-initial voice-less stops in Munduruku?
in relation to those in thesame position for three other languages: Karitiana,Gavia?o and Karo.
This was achieved in the follow-ing way: as described above, we assume that theword-initial segment for most words is S3.
The S3column for Munduruku?
is then taken to the ?dropfield?
(shaded grey), where all of the values in theS3 of Munduruku?
become dependent variables.
TheS3 columns for Karitiana, Gavia?o and Karo becomeindependent variables, which allow us to monitorthe distribution of voiceless stops in these languagesin relation to the S3 segments in Munduruku?.
Inessence, Munduruku?
S3 becomes a sort function onany other S3 columns to the right of it.5Where this method becomes effective is whenwe ?swap?
out Munduruku?
S3 and replace it withGavia?o S3, which is done by pulling the columnheader and placing it into the grey ?drop field?.This is shown in Figure 3 below.
What Figure 3immediately demonstrates is the asymmetric cor-respondence between Munduruku?
and Gavia?o forS3: broadly speaking, the correspondences betweenMunduruku?
and Karitiana, Gavia?o and Karo aremore general, whereas the same correspondences for5Given space considerations, the data in these Tables are justsamples - the voiceless stop series was picked from a separatelist which acts as a filter on the segments in the Munduruku?
S3.Cells where there is a gap ?-?
do not represent a gap or lack ofcorrespondence, but rather the word for that language possiblyhasn?t been segmented yet (gaps are represented by ???
)129Figure 2: Screenshot of a pivot table for voicelessstops in Munduruku?
(shaded) corresponding withKaritiana, Gavia?o and Karo in BDEC-T.Figure 3: Screenshot of a pivot table for voice-less stops in Gavia?o (shaded) corresponding withMunduruku?, Karitiana and Karo in BDEC-T.Gavia?o are more restricted.There is no restriction on the number of indepen-dent or dependent variables, and this can be used toinvestigate the language-internal distribution of seg-ments.
Figure 4 shows how the segment data in S3and S4 from the same language can be used in apivot table, allowing the user to track the distribu-tion of certain word or morpheme-initial segmentsand the segments that follow them.
This arrange-ment gives us a snapshot of consonant-vowel pat-terns in Karo, where S3 has been additionally fil-tered to show the distribution of vowels that followthe palatals [c] and [j].One important advantage to this arrangement ofdata and the use of pivot tables is the potentialfor tracking multiple correspondences across severallanguages simultaneously.
So far, this is only lim-ited by processor speed and viewing space.
We havetested up to five segment correspondences (i.e.
S3-8)across three languages, or one correspondence (i.e.Figure 4: Screenshot of a pivot table for language-internal distribution of [c] and [j] morpheme andsyllable-initially in Karo.S3) for as many as ten languages simultaneously.Given that most words in the Tup??
language familyhave on average three to five segments, the formerof these amounts to the ability of corresponding thesegments of entire words simultaneously.
Consider-ing that any segment column can be swapped in andout dynamically, this adds a substantial amount ofpower in tracking single correspondences simultane-ously across a variety of languages, proto-languages,and potentially even entire families.Various statistics can be applied to these pivot ta-bles, where the results can be graphed and exported.The analyst may now take these results and proceedwith the appropriate detailed investigation, an exam-ple of which is presented in the following sections.3 Proto-Tup??
and Munduruku?To demonstrate the efficacy of this approach, weshow now the results obtained with the BDEC-T andthe use of pivot tables, and compare them with theresults of a previously established set of sound corre-spondences and reconstructed proto-phonemes.
Forthis, we chose Proto-Tup?
?, for which Rodrigues(1995) reconstructed 67 lexical proto-forms and es-tablished a consonant inventory composed of fourcomplex series of stops, divided into plain, labi-alized (still uncertain), palatalized, and glottalized(ejectives), shown Table 3.Rodrigues based his analysis on various syn-chronic reflexes found in several Tup?
?an languages,130Plain p t, ?
?
kLabialized (pw) w (kw)Palatalized tj kjGlottalized pP, (pPw) tP, ?P ?P kP, (kPw)Table 3: Proto-Tup??
stop series (Rodrigues 1995)Rodrigues BDEC-T Rodrigues BDEC-TP-T Mund.
P-T Mund.
P-T Mund.
P-T Mund.
*p p *p p *?
S *?
S?
?
?ps ?
?p/b*pP b *pP b *?P t *?P tp d d*t n *t n *?
?
*?
?s ?, ??
S St/n*tP d *tP d *P P *P P?
?
*VPV V?t/d*k k *k k *kP P *kP PSTable 4: The correspondence sets as proposed byRodrigues (1995) compared with those generated bythe BDEC-T.including Munduruku?.
Here we compare the cor-respondence sets postulated by Rodrigues and com-pare them to those generated by the BDEC-T. Theresults of the pivot table analysis are shown in Table4.
Note that the BDEC-T predicts a larger set ofcorrespondences than those posited by Rodrigues.However, there are a few cases where both listsagree; for example, for Proto-Tup??
*?
which corre-sponds to S, ?
and ?
in both cases.Another important result obtained with theBDEC-T is the possibility of relating other types ofsegmental information.
For example, Munduruku?exhibits a feature that makes it distinct from anyother Tup?
?an language: it is the only Tup?
?an lan-guage known to make a phonological contrast be-tween modal and creaky (laryngealised) vowels(Picanc?o 2005).
Munduruku?
phonation types arecrucial for any reconstruction at the stock level ?S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 S6Proto-Tup??
: *upiPa ?
u p i P aMunduruku?
: topsa?t o ps ?
?
a?Meke?ns: upia ?
u p i ?
aTable 5: *(C)VPV corresponding with (C)V?especially in the case of the ejectives proposed byRodrigues ?
but this was completely ignored in hisproposal.
As shown in Table 5 (on the followingpage), some Proto-Tup??
sequences *(C)VPV yielded(C)V?sequences (where the tilde underneath a vowelmarks creaky voice on the vowel).A comparison that considers only a segment-to-segment correspondence will mistakenly positthe correspondence set *P/?
for both Munduruku?and Sakirabia?
(Meke?ns, Tupar??
family), when thecorrespondence is in fact *P/?
for Sakirabia?
but*(C)VPV/(C)V?for Munduruku?.
This is true forRodrigues?
analysis, which mistakenly establishedthat ?in Munduruku?
[the glottal stop] has dropped?
(1995: 6).
The BDEC-T, on the other hand, allowsus to compare features to segments, and to examinevarious correspondences of segments in a sequence.This is a particular advantage as there will be nomissing information.
With this, this unique propertyof Munduruku?, specifically creaky voice, can be ex-plained historically in a principled way.3.1 Language-internal distributionA major feature offered by the BDEC-T is the pos-sibility of examining the distribution of segmentswithin the same language, which allow us to bet-ter capture the proper environment for correspon-dences between languages.
As Picanc?o (2005)notes, phonotactic restrictions may, in many cases,be gaps left behind by historical changes.
Table 6provides an example of the distribution of the pairsplain-glottalized stops.
At least in the case of *pversus *pP, the only occurrences of the latter is pre-ceding the high central vowel *1; in this environ-ment, both consonants appear to contrast as *p alsooccurs before *1.
In the case of the coronal pairs*t/*tP and *?/*?P, there is no occurrence of the firstpair before *1, whereas *?/*?P occur mostly in thisenvironment.
As for *?
versus *?P, these also ap-pear to be in complementary distribution.
By using131p e pP 1 t a?
tP a1 a ii ??
uo u?u?
1 ?P 1 ?
u ?P aa 1Table 6: Language-internal distribution of segmentspivot tables, the analyst is able to easily monitor andtrack distributional gaps or contrasts and so providea more systematic diachronic analysis.Another case which illustrates the applicabil-ity of pivot tables in arranging segment data con-cerns the vowels.
Rodrigues?
comparison pro-duced vowel correspondences between Proto-Tup?
?and Munduruku?.
Again we compare his findingswith those detected by the database: Table 7 com-pares the oral vowel correspondences as in Ro-drigues (1995) with those obtained by the pivot ta-bles in the BDEC-T, supplemented by the total ofwords with the respective correspondence.In Rodrigues?
analysis, the correspondences be-tween proto-Tup??
oral vowels and their reflexes inMunduruku?
are straightforward: it is a one-to-onecorrespondence.
BDEC-T, however, challenges thisanalysis as there appear to be other correspondencesthat have not been observed, with the exception ofthe correspondence set *e/e, where both methodsachieved the same results.
Rodrigues?
intuitions are,nonetheless, relatively close to what the databaseproduced: the largest number of correspondencesmatch the ones posited by Rodrigues, indicating thata ?manual?
analysis, although valid, still has the po-tential to miss details that the database captures.In sum, we employed the function of cross tab-ulations in the form of pivot tables to arrange seg-mented data.
The object oriented function of pivottables allowed us to dynamically arrange segmentdata which aided in tracking phonemic and featuralcorrespondences.
This was tested against a manualanalysis of the data and it was shown to confirm, re-vise and produce new results.Rodrigues BDEC-TP-T Munduruku?
P-T Munduruku?
Total?
a 1*a a *a ?
1a 11@?
1o?
1a?2*e e *e e 5*i i *i i 2?
2*1 i *1 @ 1i 19i?3j 1*o 1 *o ?
1@?/@ 1o 2*u o *u o 7o?
1i 1Table 7: Rodrigues?
(1995) oral vowel correspon-dence sets compared with those generated by theBDEC-T.4 ConclusionThe use of spreadsheets and databases is well-established in linguistic research.
However, as faras we know, the BDEC-T represents the first at-tempt at harnessing the functionality of pivot ta-bles and cross-tabulation in historical linguistics.
Onthis note, the application computational proceduresin the study of sound change and comparison havemade notable advances in the past decade.
Rele-vant to this study, systems such ALINE, a feature-based algorithm for measuring phonetic similarity,are capable of automating segmentation and quan-titatively calculating cognate probabilities withoutresorting to a table of systematic sound correspon-dences (Kondrak 2002).
These are valuable mod-els which test many long-standing hypotheses on thenature of sound change and methods for investigat-ing this.
While not offering an automated algorithmof this type, we chose to keep segmentation manualin order to maintain accuracy and to make adjust-132ments where needed in the S1-S10 segmentationsmade in the languages.
This also offers a measure ofaccuracy, as the pivot tables will only yield invalidresults if the segments aren?t aligned properly.6Although not discussed in this paper, we havepromising results from using the optional featurefields (F1 and F2) to generate syllable template toaccompany the phonemic correspondences gener-ated by the pivot tables.
Also, the application ofpivot tables in the BDEC-T has also had success intabulating mappings between cognate and semanticsets in the Tup?
?an languages (Peterson 2007a).
Ul-timately, we would like to explore innovative visu-alizing techniques to display the interdependent re-lationships between phonemes at various stages ofreconstruction (through the proto-languages in thedatabase), and the languages whose inventories theybelong to.
Conceptually, this would give us a (scal-able) two- or three-dimensional plots or ?webs?
ofcorrespondences across the languages, perhaps im-plemented by recent visualization techniques suchas treemaps or ConeTrees (Fekete & Plaisant 2002).The purpose of the BDEC-T is ultimately to com-plement other current computational approaches tothe domain of historical and comparative researchby offering a practical level of interactivity and pro-ductivity in a research tool.
Where automation is notnecessary, the BDEC-T offers a database model thateffectively enhances the functionality of the kinds ofdatabases that are already widely used.ReferencesAndrew Bredenkamp, Louisa Sadler and AndrewSpencer.
1998.
Investigating Argument Structure:The Russian Nominalization Database.
LinguisticDatabases, John Nerbonne, (ed.)
CSLI PublicationsJean-Daniel Fekete and Catherine Plaisant.
2002.
In-teractive Information Visualization of a Million Items.Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on InformationVisualization, IEEE Computer Society, Wash., DCCheryl Jensen.
1989.
O desenvolvimento histo?rico dal?
?ngua Wayamp??.
Master?s Thesis.
Campinas: Univer-sidade Estadual de Campinas.Grzegorz Kondrak.
2002.
Algorithms for Language Re-construction.
Ph.D Thesis, University of Toronto6We have developed a set of ?diagnostic?
pivot tables to helpcontrol against improperly aligned segmentations.Mirian Lemle.
1971.
Internal classification of theTup-Guaran linguistic family.
Tupi Studies I., DavidBendor-Samuel (ed.
), pp.
107-129.
Norman: SILAugusto S. Mello.
2000.
Estudo Histo?rico da Fam??lialingu??
?stica Tup-Guaran??
: Aspectos Fonolo?gicos e Lex-icais.
PhD Dissertation.
Santa Catarina: UFSCDenny Moore and Vilacy Galu?cio.
2005.
Reconstructionof Proto-Tupari consonants and vowels.
in Survey ofCalifornia and Other Indian Languages, Report 8, M.Langdon and L. Hinton (eds.
), pp.
119-137.John Nerbonne.
1998.
Linguistic Databases: Introduc-tion.
John Nerbonne, (ed.)
CSLI PublicationsTyler Peterson.
2007a.
Analytical Database Design: Ap-proaches in the Mapping between Cognate and Se-mantic Sets.
Proceedings of the 7th Intl.
Workshopon Computational Semantics, J. Goertzen et al(eds).Tilburg: Tilburg University, pp.
359?361.Gessiane L. Picanc?o.
2005.
Munduruku?
: Phonetics,Phonology, Synchrony, Diachrony.
PhD Dissertation.Vancouver: University of British Columbia.Aryon D. Rodrigues.
1958.
Die Klassifikation des Tupi-Sprachstammes.
Proceedings of the 32nd Interna-tional Congress of Americanists, Copenhagen, 1956;pp.
679-684.Aryon D. Rodrigues.
1985.
Relac?o?es internas na fam??lialingu??
?stica Tup-Guaran??.
Revista de Antropologia27/28, Sa?o Paulo, 1956 pp.
33-53.Aryon D. Rodrigues.
1995.
Glottalized stops in Proto-Tup??.
Paper presented at the SSILA Summer Meeting,University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM.Charles O. Schleicher.
1998.
Comparative and InternalReconstruction of Proto-Tup??-Guaran??.
PhD Disserta-tion.
Madison: University of Wisconsin.133
