BioNLP 2007: Biological, translational, and clinical language processing, pages 137?144,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsInterpreting Comparative Constructions in Biomedical TextMarcelo Fiszman,1   Dina Demner-Fushman,2Francois M. Lang,2  Philip Goetz,2Thomas C. Rindflesch21University of Tennessee ?
GSM, Knoxville, TN 37920mfiszman@utmck.edu2Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical CommunicationsNational Library of Medicine, Bethesda, MD 20894{ddemner|goetzp|flang|trindflesch}@mail.nih.govAbstractWe propose a methodology usingunderspecified semantic interpretation toprocess comparative constructions inMEDLINE citations, concentrating on twostructures that are prevalent in the researchliterature reporting on clinical trials fordrug therapies.
The method exploits anexisting semantic processor, SemRep,which constructs predications based on theUnified Medical Language System.
Resultsof a preliminary evaluation were recall of70%, precision of 96%, and F-score of81%.
We discuss the generalization of themethodology to other entities such astherapeutic and diagnostic procedures.
Theavailable structures in computable formatare potentially useful for interpretingoutcome statements in MEDLINEcitations.1 IntroductionAs natural language processing (NLP) isincreasingly able to support advanced informationmanagement techniques for research in medicineand biology, it is being incrementally improved toprovide extended coverage and more accurateresults.
In this paper, we discuss the extension ofan existing semantic interpretation system toaddress comparative structures.
These structuresprovide a way of explicating the characteristics ofone entity in terms of a second, thereby enhancingthe description of the first.
This phenomenon isimportant in clinical research literature reportingthe results of clinical trials.In the abstracts of these reports, a treatment forsome disease is typically discussed using two typesof comparative structures.
The first announces thatthe (primary) therapy focused on in the study willbe compared to some other (secondary) therapy.
Atypical example is (1).
(1) Lansoprazole compared withranitidine for the treatment ofnonerosive gastroesophageal refluxdisease.An outcome statement (2) often appears near theend of the abstract, asserting results in terms of therelative merits of the primary therapy compared tothe secondary.
(2) Lansoprazole is moreeffective than ranitidine inpatients with endoscopicallyconfirmed non-erosive refluxesophagitis.The processing of comparative expressions suchas (1) and (2) was incorporated into an existingsystem, SemRep [Rindflesch and Fiszman, 2003;Rindflesch et al, 2005], which constructs semanticpredications by mapping assertions in biomedicaltext to the Unified Medical Language System?(UMLS)?
[Humphreys et al, 1998].2 Background2.1 Comparative structures in EnglishThe range of comparative expressions in English isextensive and complex.
Several linguistic studieshave investigated their characteristics, withdiffering assumptions about syntax and semantics(for example [Ryan, 1981; Rayner and Banks,1990; Staab and Hahn, 1997; Huddleston andPullum, 2002]).
Our study concentrates on137structures in which two drugs are compared withrespect to a shared attribute (e.g.
how well theytreat some disease).
An assessment of their relativemerit in this regard is indicated by their positionson a scale.
The compared terms are expressed asnoun phrases, which can be considered to beconjoined.
The shared characteristic focused on isexpressed as a predicate outside the comparativestructure.
An adjective or noun is used to denotethe scale, and words such as than, as, with, and toserve as cues to identify the compared terms, thescale, and the relative position of the terms on thescale.The first type of structure we address (calledcomp1 and illustrated in (3)) merely asserts that theprimary and secondary terms (in bold) are beingcompared.
A possible cue for identifying thesestructures is a form of compare.
A furthercharacteristic is that the compared terms areseparated by a conjunction, or a preposition, as in(3).
(3) To compare misoprostol withdinoprostone for cervical ripeningand labor induction.As shown in (4), a scale may be  mentioned(efficacy); however, in this study, we only identifythe compared terms in structures of this type.
(4) To compare the efficacy ofmisoprostol with dinoprostone forcervical ripening and laborinduction.In the more complex comparative expression weaccommodate (called comp2), the relative rankingof two compared terms is indicated on a scaledenoted by an adjective (e.g.
effective in (5)).
Therelative position of the compared terms in scalarcomparative structures of this type expresses eitherequality or inequality.
Inequality is further dividedinto superiority, where the primary compared termis higher on the scale than the secondary, andinferiority, where the opposite is true.
Cuesassociated with the adjective designating the scalesignal these phenomena (e.g.
as ADJ as in (5) forequality, ADJer than in (6) for superiority, and lessADJ than in (7) for inferiority).
(5) Azithromycin is as effectiveas erythromycin estolate for thetreatment of pertussis in children.
(6) Naproxen is safer thanaspirin in the treatment of thearthritis of rheumatic fever.
(7) Sodium valproate wassignificantly less effective thanprochlorperazine in reducing painor nausea.In examples (3) through (7), the characteristic thecompared drugs have in common is treatment ofsome disorder, for example treatment of pertussisin children in (5).Few studies describe an implemented automaticanalysis of comparatives; however, Friedman[Friedman, 1989] is a notable exception.
Jindal andLiu [Jindal and Liu, 2006] use machine learning toidentify some comparative structures, but do notprovide a semantic interpretation.
We exploitSemRep machinery to interpret the aspects ofcomparative structures just described.2.2 SemRepSemRep [Rindflesch and Fiszman, 2003;Rindflesch et al, 2005] recovers underspecifiedsemantic propositions in biomedical text based ona partial syntactic analysis and structured domainknowledge from the UMLS.
Several systems thatextract entities and relations are underdevelopment in both the clinical and molecularbiology domains.
Examples of systems for clinicaltext are described in [Friedman et al, 1994],[Johnson et al, 1993], [Hahn et al, 2002], and[Christensen et al, 2002].
In molecular biology,examples include [Yen et al, 2006], [Chun et al,2006], [Blaschke et al, 1999], [Leroy et al, 2003],[Rindflesch et al, 2005], [Friedman et al, 2001],and [Lussier et al, 2006].During SemRep processing, a partial syntacticparse is produced that depends on lexical look-upin the SPECIALIST lexicon [McCray et al, 1994]and a part-of-speech tagger [Smith et al, 2004].MetaMap [Aronson, 2001] then matches nounphrases to concepts in the Metathesaurus?
anddetermines the semantic type for each concept.
Forexample, the structure in (9), produced for (8),allows both syntactic and semantic information tobe used in further SemRep processing thatinterprets semantic predications.
(8) Lansoprazole for thetreatment of gastroesophagealreflux disease138(9) [[head(noun(Lansoprazole),metaconc(?lansoprazole?
:[phsu]))],[prep(for),det(the),head(noun(treatment))],[prep(of),mod(adj(gastroesophageal)),mod(noun(reflux)),head(noun(disease),metaconc(?Gastroesophageal reflux disease?
:[dsyn]))]]Predicates are derived from indicator rules thatmap syntactic phenomena (such as verbs andnominalizations) to relationships in the UMLSSemantic Network.
Argument identification isguided by dependency grammar rules as well asconstraints imposed by the Semantic Network.
Inprocessing (8), for example, an indicator rule linksthe nominalization treatment with the SemanticNetwork relation ?Pharmacologic SubstanceTREATS Disease or Syndrome.?
Since thesemantic types of the syntactic argumentsidentified for treatment in this sentence(?Pharmacologic Substance?
for ?lansoprazole?
and?Disease or Syndrome?
for ?Gastroesophagealreflux disease?)
match the corresponding semantictypes in the relation from the Semantic Network,the predication in (10) is constructed, wheresubject and object are Metathesaurus concepts.
(10) lansoprazole TREATSGastroesophageal reflux disease3 Methods3.1 Linguistic patternsWe extracted sentences for developingcomparative processing from a set of  some 10,000MEDLINE citations reporting on the results ofclinical trials, a rich source of comparativestructures.
In this sample, the most frequentpatterns for comp1 (only announces that two termsare compared) and comp2 (includes a scale andpositions on that scale) are given in (11) and (12).In the patterns, Term1 and Term2 refer to theprimary and secondary compared terms,respectively.
?{BE}?
means that some form of beis optional, and slash indicates disjunction.
Thesepatterns served as guides for enhancing SemRepargument identification machinery but were notimplemented as such.
That is, they indicatenecessary components but do not precludeintervening modifiers and qualifiers.
(11) comp1: Compared termsC1:   Term1 {BE} compare with/to Term2C2:   compare Term1 with/to Term2C3:   compare Term1 and/versus Term2C4a: Term1 comparison with/to Term2C4b: comparison of Term1 with/to Term2C4c: comparison of Term1 and/versus Term2C5   Term1 versus Term2(12) comp2: Scalar patternsS1:   Term1 BE as ADJ as {BE} Term2S2a: Term1 BE more ADJ than {BE} Term2S2b: Term1 BE ADJer than {BE}Term2S2c: Term1 BE less ADJ than {BE} Term2S4:   Term1 BE superior to Term2S5:   Term1 BE inferior to Term2As with SemRep in general, the interpretation ofcomparative structures exploits underspecifiedsyntactic structure enhanced with Metathesaurusconcepts and semantic types.
Semantic groups[McCray et al, 2001] from the Semantic Networkare also available.
For this project, we exploit thegroup Chemicals & Drugs, which contains suchsemantic types as ?Pharmacologic Substance?,?Antibiotic?, and ?Immunologic Factor?.
(Theprinciples used here also apply to compared termswith semantic types from other semantic groups,such as ?Procedures?.)
In the comp1 patterns, aform of compare acts as an indicator of acomparative predication.
In comp2, the adjectiveserves that function.
Other words appearing in thepatterns cue the indicator word (in comp2) andhelp identify the compared terms (in both comp1and comp2).
The conjunction versus  is special inthat it cues the secondary compared term (Term2)in comp1, but may also indicate a comp1 structurein the absence of a form of compare (C5).3.2 Interpreting comp1 patternsWhen SemRep encounters a form of compare, itassumes a comp1 structure and looks to the rightfor the first noun phrase immediately preceded bywith, to, and, or versus.
If the head of this phrase ismapped to a concept having a semantic type in thegroup Chemicals & Drugs, it is marked as thesecondary compared term.
The algorithm thenlooks to the left of that term for a noun phrasehaving a semantic type also in the group Chemicals& Drugs, which becomes the primary comparedterm.
When this processing is applied to (13), thesemantic predication (14) is produced, in which thepredicate is COMPARED_WITH; the firstargument is the primary compared term and the139other is the secondary.
As noted earlier, although ascale is sometimes asserted in these structures (asin (13)), SemRep does not retrieve it.
An assertionregarding position on the scale never appears incomp1 structures.
(13) To compare the efficacy andtolerability of Hypericumperforatum with imipramine inpatients with mild to moderatedepression.
(14) Hypericum perforatumCOMPARED_WITH ImipramineSemRep considers noun phrases occurringimmediately to the right and left of versus as beingcompared terms if their heads have been mapped toMetathesaurus concepts having semantic typesbelonging to the group Chemicals & Drugs.
Suchnoun phrases are interpreted as part of a comp1structure, even if a form of compare has notoccurred.
The predication (16) is derived from(15).
(15) Intravenous lorazepam versusdimenhydrinate for treatment ofvertigo in the emergencydepartment: a randomized clinicaltrial.
(16) Lorazepam COMPARED_WITHDimenhydrinateSemRep treats compared terms as beingcoordinated.
For example, this identificationallows both ?Lorazepam?
and ?Dimenhydrinate?to function as arguments of TREATS in (15).Consequently, in addition to (16), the predicationsin (17) are returned as the semantic interpretationof (15).
Such processing is done for all comp1 andcomp2 structures (although these results are notgiven for (13) and are not further discussed in thispaper).
(17) Lorazepam TREATS VertigoDimenhydrinate TREATSVertigo3.3 Interpreting comp2 patternsIn addition to identifying two compared termswhen processing comp2 patterns, a scale must benamed and the relative position of the terms on thatscale indicated.
The algorithm for findingcompared terms in comp2 structures begins bylocating one of the cues as, than, or to and thenexamines the next noun phrase to the right.
If itshead has been mapped to a concept with asemantic type in the group Chemicals & Drugs, itis marked as the secondary compared term.
As incomp1, the algorithm then looks to the left for thefirst noun phrase having a head in the samesemantic group, and that phrase is marked as theprimary compared term.To find the scale name, SemRep examines thesecondary compared term and then locates the firstadjective to its left.
The nominalization of thatadjective (as found in the SPECIALIST Lexicon)is designated as the scale and serves as anargument of the predicate SCALE in theinterpretation.
For adjectives superior and inferior(patterns S4 and S5 in (12)) the scale name is?goodness.
?In determining relative position on the scale,equality is contrasted with inequality.
If theadjective of the construction is immediatelypreceded by as (pattern S1 in (12) above), the twocompared terms have the same position on thescale (equality), and are construed as arguments ofa predication with predicate SAME_AS.
In allother comp2 constructions, the compared terms arein a relationship of inequality.
The primarycompared term is considered higher on the scaleunless the adjective is inferior or is preceded byless, in which case the secondary term is higher.The predicates HIGHER_THAN andLOWER_THAN are used to construct predicationswith the compared terms to interpret position onthe scale.
The equality construction in (18) isexpressed as the predications in (19).
(18) Candesartan is as effectiveas lisinopril once daily inreducing blood pressure.
(19) Candesartan COMPARED_WITHlisinoprilSCALE:EffectivenessCandesartan SAME_ASlisinoprilThe superiority construction in (20) is expressed asthe predications in (21).
(20) Losartan was more effectivethan atenolol in reducingcardiovascular morbidity andmortality in patients withhypertension, diabetes, and LVH.
(21) Losartan COMPARED_WITHAtenolol140SCALE:EffectivenessLosartan HIGHER_THANAtenololThe inferiority construction in (22) is expressed asthe predications in (23).
(22) Morphine-6-glucoronide wassignificantly less potent thanmorphine in producing pupilconstriction.
(23) morphine-6-glucoronideCOMPARED_WITH MorphineSCALE:Potencymorphine-6-glucoronideLOWER_THAN Morphine3.4 Accommodating negationNegation in comparative structures affects theposition of the compared terms on the scale, and isaccommodated differently for equality and forinequality.
When a scalar comparison of equality(pattern S1, as ADJ as) is negated, the primaryterm is lower on the scale than the secondary(rather than being at least equal).
For example, ininterpreting the negated equality construction in(24), SemRep produces (25).
(24) Amoxicillin-clavulanate wasnot as effective as ciprofloxacinfor treating uncomplicated bladderinfection in women.
(25) Amoxicillin-clavulanateCOMPARED_WITH CiprofloxaciSCALE:EffectivenessAmoxicillin-clavulanateLOWER_THAN CiprofloxacinFor patterns of inequality, SemRep negates thepredication indicating position on the scale.
Forexample, the predications in (27) represent thenegated superiority comparison in (26).
Negationof inferiority comparatives (e.g.
?X is not lesseffective than Y?)
is extremely rare in our sample.
(26) These data show thatcelecoxib is not better thandiclofenac (P = 0.414) in terms ofulcer complications.
(27) celecoxib COMPARED_WITHdiclofenacSCALE:Goodnesscelecoxib NEG_HIGHER_THANdiclofenac3.5 EvaluationTo evaluate the effectiveness of the developedmethods we created a test set of 300 sentencescontaining comparative structures.
These wereextracted by the second author (who did notparticipate in the development of the methodology)from 3000 MEDLINE citations published later indate than the  citations used to develop themethodology.
The citations were retrieved with aPubMed query specifying randomized controlledstudies and comparative studies on drug therapy.Sentences containing direct comparisons of thepharmacological actions of two drugs expressed inthe target structures (comp1 and comp2) wereextracted starting from the latest retrieved citationand continuing until 300 sentences withcomparative structures had been examined.
Thesewere annotated with the PubMed ID of the citation,names of two drugs (COMPARED_WITHpredication), the scale on which they are compared(SCALE), and the relative position of the primarydrug with respect to the secondary (SAME_AS,HIGHER_THAN, or LOWER_THAN).The test sentences were processed usingSemRep and evaluated against the annotated testset.
We then computed recall and precision inseveral ways: overall for all comparativestructures, for comp1 structures only, and forcomp2 structures only.
To understand how theoverall identification of comparatives is influencedby the components of the construction, we alsocomputed recall and precision separately for drugnames, scale, and position on scale (SAME_AS,HIGHER_THAN and LOWER_THAN takentogether).
Recall measures the proportion ofmanually annotated categories that have beencorrectly identified automatically.
Precisionmeasures what proportion of the automaticallyannotated categories is correct.In addition, the overall identification ofcomparative structures was evaluated using the F-measure [Rijsbergen, 1979], which combines recalland precision.
The F-measure was computed usingmacro-averaging and micro-averaging.
Macro-averaging was computed over each category firstand then averaged over the three categories (drugnames, scale, and position on scale).
This approachgives equal weight to each category.
In micro-averaging (which gives an equal weight to theperformance on each sentence) recall and precision141were obtained by summing over all individualsentences.
Because it is impossible to enumerateall entities and relations which are not drugs, scale,or position we did not use the classification errorrate and other metrics that require computing oftrue negative values.4 ResultsUpon inspection of the SemRep processing resultswe noticed that the test set contained nineduplicates.
In addition, four sentences were notprocessed for various technical reasons.
We reportthe results for the remaining 287 sentences, whichcontain 288 comparative structures occurring in168 MEDLINE citations.
Seventy four citationscontain 85 comp2 structures.
The remaining 203structures are comp1.Correct identification of comparative structuresof both types depends on two factors: 1)recognition of both drugs being compared, and 2)recognition of the presence of a comparativestructure itself.
In addition, correct identification ofthe comp2 structures depends on recognition of thescale on which the drugs are compared and therelative position of the drugs on the scale.
Table 1presents recall, precision, and F-score reflectingthese factors.Table 1.
SemRep performanceTask Recall Precision F-scoreOverall 0.70 0.96 0.81Drug extraction 0.69 0.96 0.81Comp1 0.74 0.98 0.84Comp2  0.62 0.92 0.74Scale  0.62 1.00 0.77Position on scale 0.62 0.98 0.76We considered drug identification to be correctonly if both drugs participating in the relationshipwere identified correctly.
The recall resultsindicate that approximately 30% of the drugs andcomparative structures of comp1, as well as 40%of comp2 structures, remain unrecognized;however, all components are identified with highprecision.
Macro-averaging over compared drugnames, scale, and position on scale categories weachieve an F-score = 0.78.
The micro-averagescore for 287 comparative sentences is 0.5.5 DiscussionIn examining SemRep errors, we determined thatmore than 60% of the false negatives (for bothcomp1 and comp2) were due to ?empty heads?
[Chodorow et al, 1985; Guthrie et al, 1990], inwhich the syntactic head of a noun phrase does notreflect semantic thrust.
Such heads preventSemRep from accurately determining the semantictype and group of the noun phrase.
In our sample,expressions interpreted as empty heads includethose referring to drug dosage and formulations,such as extended release (the latter oftenabbreviated as XR).
Examples of missedinterpretations are in sentences (28) and (29),where the empty heads are in bold.
Ahlers et al[Ahlers et al, 2007] discuss enhancements toSemRep for accommodating empty heads.
Thesemechanisms are being incorporated into theprocessing for comparative structures.
(28) Oxybutynin 15 mg was moreeffective than propiverine 20 mgin reducing symptomatic andasymptomatic IDCs in ambulatorypatients.
(29) Intravesical atropine was aseffective as oxybutynin immediaterelease for increasing bladdercapacity and it was probablybetter with less antimuscarinicside effectsFalse positives were due exclusively to wordsense ambiguity.
For example, in (30) bid (twice aday) was mapped to the concept ?BID protein?,which belongs to the semantic group Chemicals &Drugs.
The most recent version of MetaMap,which will soon be called by comparativeprocessing, exploits word sense disambiguation[Humphrey et al, 2006] and will likely resolvesome of these errors.
(30) Retapamulin ointment 1% (bid)for 5 days was as effective asoral cephalexin (bid) for 10 daysin treatment of patients with SID,and was well tolerated.Although, in this paper, we tested the method onstructures in which the compared terms belong tothe semantic group Chemicals & Drugs, we canstraightforwardly generalize the method by addingother semantic groups to the algorithm.
For142example, if SemRep recognized the noun phrasesin bold in (31) and (32) as belonging to the groupProcedures, comparative processing could proceedas for Chemicals & Drugs.
(31) Comparison of multi-slicespiral CT and magnetic resonanceimaging in evaluation of the un-resectability of blood vessels inpancreatic tumor.
(32) Dynamic multi-slice spiralCT is better than dynamic magneticresonance to some extent inevaluating the un-resectability ofperipancreatic blood vessels inpancreatic tumor.The semantic predications returned by SemRepto represent comparative expressions can beconsidered a type of executable knowledge thatsupports reasoning.
Since the arguments in thesepredications have been mapped to the UMLS, astructured knowledge source, they can bemanipulated using that knowledge.
It is alsopossible to compute the transitive closure of allSemRep output for a collection of texts todetermine which drug was asserted in thatcollection to be the best with respect to somecharacteristic.
This ability could be very useful insupporting question-answering applications.As noted earlier, it is common in reporting onthe results of randomized clinical trials andsystematic reviews that a comp1 structure appearsearly in the discourse to announce the objectives ofthe study and that a comp2 structure often appearsnear the end to give the results.
Another exampleof this phenomenon appears in (33) and (34) (fromPMID 15943841).
(33) To compare the efficacy offamotidine and omeprazole inJapanese patients with non-erosivegastro-oesophageal reflux diseaseby a prospective randomizedmulticentre trial.
(34) Omeprazole is more effectivethan famotidine for the control ofgastro-oesophageal reflux diseasesymptoms in H. pylori-negativepatients.We suggest one example of an application thatcan benefit from the information provided by theknowledge inherent in the semantic interpretationof comparative structures, and that is theinterpretation of outcome statements in MEDLINEcitations, as a method for supporting automaticaccess to the latest results from clinical trialsresearch.6 ConclusionWe expanded a symbolic semantic interpreter toidentify comparative constructions in biomedicaltext.
The method relies on underspecified syntacticanalysis and domain knowledge from the UMLS.We identify two compared terms and scalarcomparative structures in MEDLINE citations.Although we restricted the method to comparisonsof drug therapies, the method can be easilygeneralized to other entities such as diagnostic andtherapeutic procedures.
The availability of thisinformation in computable format can support theidentification of outcome sentences in MEDLINE,which in turn supports translation of biomedicalresearch into improvements in quality of patientcare.Acknowledgement This study was supported inpart by the Intramural Research Programs of theNational Institutes of Health, National Library ofMedicine.ReferencesAhlers C, Fiszman M, Demner-Fushman D, Lang F,Rindflesch TC.
2007.
Extracting semanticpredications from MEDLINE citations forpharmacogenomics.
Pacific Symposium onBiocomputing  12:209-220.Aronson AR.
2001.
Effective mapping of biomedicaltext to the UMLS Metathesaurus: The MetaMapprogram.
Proc AMIA Symp, 17-21.Blaschke C, Andrade MA, Ouzounis C, and Valencia A.1999.
Automatic extraction of biological informationfrom scientific text: protein-protein interactions.Proceedings of the 7th International Conference onIntelligent Systems for Molecular Biology.
MorganKaufman Publishers, San Francisco, CA.Christensen L, Haug PJ, and Fiszman M. 2002.MPLUS: A probabilistic medical languageunderstanding system.
Proceedings of the Workshopon Natural Language Processing in the BiomedicalDomain, Association for Computational Linguistics,29-36.Chodorow MS, Byrd RI, and Heidom GE.
1985.Extracting Semantic Hierarchies from a Large On-143Line Dictionary.
Proceedings of the 23rd AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 299-304.Chun HW, Tsuruoka Y, Kim J-D, Shiba R, Nagata N,Hishiki T, and Tsujii J.
2006, Extraction of gene-disease relations from Medline using domaindictionaries and machine learning.
Pac SympBiocomput, 4-15.Friedman C. 1989.
A general computational treatmentof the comparative.
Proc 27th Annual Meeting AssocComp Linguistics, 161-168.Friedman C, Alderson PO, Austin JH, Cimino JJ, andJohnson SB.
1994.
A general natural-language textprocessor for clinical radiology.
J Am Med InformAssoc, 1(2):161-74.Friedman C, Kra P, Yu H, Krauthammer M, andRzhetsky A.
2001.
GENIES: a natural-languageprocessing system for the extraction of molecularpathways from journal articles.
Bioinformatics, 17Suppl 1:S74-S82.Guthrie L, Slater BM, Wilks Y, Bruce R. 1990.
Is therecontent in empty heads?
Proceedings of the 13thConference on Computational Linguistics, v3:138 ?143.Hahn U, Romacker M, and Schulz S. 2002.MEDSYNDIKATE--a natural language system forthe extraction of medical information from findingsreports.
Int J Med Inf, 67(1-3):63-74.Huddleston R, and Pullum GK.
2002.
The CambridgeGrammar of the English Language.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK.Humphrey SM, Rogers WJ, Kilicoglu H, Demner-Fushman D, Rindflesch TC.
2006.
Word sensedisambiguation by selecting the best semantic typebased on Journal Descriptor Indexing: Preliminaryexperiment.
J Am Soc Inf SciTech 57(1):96-113.Humphreys BL, Lindberg DA, Schoolman HM, andBarnett OG.
1998.
The Unified Medical LanguageSystem: An informatics research collaboration.
J AmMed Inform Assoc, 5(1):1-11.Jindal, Nitin and Bing Liu.
2006.
Identifyingcomparative sentences in text documents.Proceedings of the 29th Annual International ACMSIGIR Conference on Research & Development onInformation Retrieval.Johnson SB, Aguirre A, Peng P, and Cimino J.
1993.Interpreting natural language queries using theUMLS.
Proc Annu Symp Comput Appl Med Care,294-8.Leroy G, Chen H, and Martinez JD.
2003 A shallowparser based on closed-class words to capturerelations in biomedical text.
J Biomed Inform,36(3):145-158.Lussier YA, Borlawsky T, Rappaport D, Liu Y, andFriedman C. 2006 PhenoGO: assigning phenotypiccontext to Gene Ontology annotations with naturallanguage processing.
Pac Symp Biocomput, 64-75.McCray AT, Srinivasan S, and Browne AC.
1994.Lexical methods for managing variation inbiomedical terminologies.
Proc Annu Symp ComputAppl Med Care, 235-9.McCray AT, Burgun A, and Bodenreider O.
2001Aggregating UMLS semantic types for reducingconceptual complexity.
Medinfo, 10(Pt 1): 216-20.Rayner M and Banks A.
1990.
An implementablesemantics for comparative constructions.Computational Linguistics, 16(2):86-112.Rindflesch TC.
1995.
Integrating natural languageprocessing and biomedical domain knowledge forincreased information retrieval effectiveness.
Proc5th  Annual Dual-use Technologies and ApplicationsConference, 260-5.Rindflesch TC and Fiszman M. 2003.
The interaction ofdomain knowledge and linguistic structure in naturallanguage processing: Interpreting hypernymicpropositions in biomedical text.
J Biomed Inform,36(6):462-77.Rindflesch TC, Marcelo Fiszman , and Bisharah Libbus.2005.
Semantic interpretation for the biomedicalresearch literature.
Medical informatics: Knowledgemanagement and data mining in biomedicine.Springer, New York, NY.Rijsbergen V. 1979.
Information Retrieval,Butterworth-Heinemann, Newton, MA.Ryan K. 1981.
Corepresentational grammar and parsingEnglish comparatives.
Proc 19th Annual MeetingAssoc Comp Linguistics, 13-18.Smith L, Rindflesch T, and Wilbur WJ.
2004.
MedPost:a part-of-speech tagger for biomedical text.Bioinformatics, 20(14):2320-1.Staab S and Hahn U. Comparatives in context.
1997.Proc 14th National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence and 9th Innovative Applications ofArtificial Intelligence Conference, 616-621.Yen YT, Chen B, Chiu HW, Lee YC, Li YC, and HsuCY.
2006.
Developing an NLP and IR-basedalgorithm for analyzing gene-disease relationships.144
