BioNLP 2007: Biological, translational, and clinical language processing, pages 33?40,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Unsupervised Method for Extracting Domain-specific Affixes inBiological LiteratureHaibin Liu Christian Blouin Vlado Kes?eljFaculty of Computer Science, Dalhousie University, Canada, {haibin,cblouin,vlado}@cs.dal.caAbstractWe propose an unsupervised method to au-tomatically extract domain-specific prefixesand suffixes from biological corpora basedon the use of PATRICIA tree.
The method isevaluated by integrating the extracted affixesinto an existing learning-based biologicalterm annotation system.
The system basedon our method achieves comparable experi-mental results to the original system in locat-ing biological terms and exact term match-ing annotation.
However, our method im-proves the system efficiency by significantlyreducing the feature set size.
Additionally,the method achieves a better performancewith a small training data set.
Since the af-fix extraction process is unsupervised, it isassumed that the method can be generalizedto extract domain-specific affixes from otherdomains, thus assisting in domain-specificconcept recognition.1 IntroductionBiological term annotation is a preparatory step ininformation retrieval in biological science.
A bi-ological term is generally defined as any technicalterm related to the biological domain.
Consider-ing term structure, there are two types of biologi-cal terms: single word terms and multi-word terms.Many systems (Fukuda et al, 1998; Franzn et al,2002) have been proposed to annotate biologicalterms based on different methodologies in which de-termining term boundaries is usually the first task.
Ithas been demonstrated (Jiampojamarn et al, 2005a),however, that accurately locating term boundariesis difficult.
This is so because of the ambiguity ofterms, and the peculiarity of the language used inbiological literature.
(Jiampojamarn et al, 2005b) proposed an auto-matic biological term annotation system (ABTA)which applies supervised learning methods to an-notate biological terms in the biological litera-ture.
Given unstructured texts in biological research,the annotation system first locates biological termsbased on five word position classes, ?Start?, ?Mid-dle?, ?End?, ?Single?
and ?Non-relevant?.
There-fore, multi-word biological terms should be in a con-sistent sequence of classes ?Start (Middle)* End?while single word terms will be indicated by theclass ?Single?.
Word n-grams (Cavnar and Tren-kle, 1994) are used to define each input sentenceinto classification instances.
For each element inan n-gram, the system extracts feature attributes asinput for creating the classification model.
The ex-tracted feature attributes include word feature pat-terns(e.g., Greek letters, uppercase letters, digits andother symbols), part-of-speech (POS) tag informa-tion, prefix and suffix characters.
Without usingother specific domain resources, the system achievescomparable results to some other state-of-the-artsystems (Finkel et al, 2004; Settles, 2004) whichresort to external knowledge, such as protein dictio-naries.
It has been demonstrated (Jiampojamarn etal., 2005b) that the part-of-speech tag informationis the most effective attribute in aiding the systemto annotate biological terms because most biologi-cal terms are partial noun phrases.The ABTA system learns the affix feature byrecording only the first and the last n characters (e.g.,n = 3) of each word in classification instances, andthe authors claimed that the n characters could pro-vide enough affix information for the term annota-tion task.
Instead of using a certain number of char-acters to provide affix information, however, it ismore likely that a specific list of typically used pre-fixes and suffixes of biological words would providemore accurate information to classifying some bio-logical terms and boundaries.
We hypothesize that33a more flexible affix definition will improve the per-formance of the taks of biological term annotation.Inspired by (Jiampojamarn et al, 2005b), wepropose a method to automatically extract domain-specific prefixes and suffixes from biological cor-pora.
We evaluate the effectiveness of the extractedaffixes by integrating them into the parametrizationof an existing biological term annotation system,ABTA (Jiampojamarn et al, 2005b), to evaluate theimpact on performance of term annotation.
The pro-posed method is completely unsupervised.
For thisreason, we suggest that our method can be gener-alized for extracting domain-specific affixes frommany domains.The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Insection 2, we review recent research advances in bi-ological term annotation.
Section 3 describes themethodology proposed for affix extraction in detail.The experiment results are presented and evaluatedin section 4.
Finally, section 5 summarizes the paperand introduces future work.2 Related WorkBiological term annotation denotes a set of proce-dures that are used to systematically recognize per-tinent terms in biological literature, that is, to differ-entiate between biological terms and non-biologicalterms and to highlight lexical units that are related torelevant biology concepts (Nenadic and Ananiadou,2006).Recognizing biological entities from texts allowsfor text mining to capture their underlying meaningand further extraction of semantic relationships andother useful information.
Because of the importanceand complexity of the problem, biological term an-notation has attracted intensive research and there isa large number of published work on this topic (Co-hen and Hersh, 2005; Franzn et al, 2003).Current approaches in biological term annota-tion can be generalized into three main categories:lexicon-based, rule-based and learning-based (Co-hen and Hersh, 2005).
Lexicon-based approachesuse existing terminological resources, such as dic-tionaries or databases, in order to locate term oc-currences in texts.
Given the pace of biology re-search, however, it is not realistic to assume that adictionary can be maintained up-to-date.
A draw-back of lexicon-based approaches is thus that theyare not able to annotate recently coined biologicalterms.
Rule-based approaches attempt to recoverterms by developing rules that describe associatedterm formation patterns.
However, rules are oftentime-consuming to develop while specific rules aredifficult to adjust to other types of terms.
Thus, rule-based approaches are considered to lack scalabilityand generalization.Systems developed based on learning-based ap-proaches use training data to learn features useful forbiological term annotation.
Compared to the othertwo methods, learning-based approaches are theo-retically more capable to identify unseen or multi-word terms, and even terms with various writingstyles by different authors.
However, a main chal-lenge for learning-based approaches is to select a setof discriminating feature attributes that can be usedfor accurate annotation of biological terms.
The fea-tures generally fall into four classes: (1) simple de-terministic features which capture use of uppercaseletters and digits, and other formation patterns ofwords, (2) morphological features such as prefix andsuffix, (3) part-of-speech features that provide wordsyntactic information, and (4) semantic trigger fea-tures which capture the evidence by collecting thesemantic information of key words, for instances,head nouns or special verbs.As introduced earlier, the learning-based biologi-cal term annotation system ABTA obtained an 0.705F-score in exact term matching on Genia corpus(v3.02)1 which contains 2,000 abstracts of biolog-ical literature.
In fact, the morphological featuresin ABTA are learned by recording only the first andthe last n characters of each word in classificationinstances.
This potentially leads to inaccurate affixinformation for the term annotation task.
(Shen et al, 2003) explored an adaptation of ageneral Hidden Markov Model-based term recog-nizer to biological domain.
They experimented withPOS tags, prefix and suffix information and nounheads as features and reported an 0.661 F-score inoverall term annotation on Genia corpus.
100 mostfrequent prefixes and suffixes are extracted as can-didates, and evaluated based on difference in likeli-hood of part of a biological term versus not.
Theirmethod results in a modest positive improvement inrecognizing biological terms.
Two limitations of thismethod are: (1) use of only a biological corpus, so1http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA/34that the general domain-independent affixes are notremoved, and (2) a supervised process of choosing ascore threshold that is used in affix selection.
(Lee et al, 2003) used prefix and suffix fea-tures coupled with a dictionary-based refinement ofboundaries of the selected candidates in their exper-iments for term annotation.
They extracted affix fea-tures in a similar way with (Shen et al, 2003).
Theyalso reported that affix features made a positive ef-fect on improving term annotation accuracy.In this project, we consider the quality of domain-specific affix features extracted via an unsupervisedmethod.
Successful demonstration of the quality ofthis extraction method implies that domain-specificaffixes can be identified for arbitrary corpora withoutthe need to manually generate training sets.3 PATRICIA-Tree-based Affix Extraction3.1 PATRICIA TreeThe method we propose to extract affixes from bio-logical words is based on the use of PATRICIA tree.?PATRICIA?
stands for ?Practical Algorithm To Re-trieve Information Coded In Alphanumeric?.
It wasfirst proposed by (Morrison, 1968) as an algorithmto provide a flexible means of storing, indexing, andretrieving information in a large file.
PATRICIAtree uses path compression by grouping common se-quences into nodes.
This structure provides an ef-ficient way of storing values while maintaining thelookup time for a key of O(N) in the worst case,where N is the length of the longest key.
Meanwhile,PATRICIA tree has little restriction on the format oftext and keys.
Also it does not require rearrange-ment of text or index when new material is added.Because of its outstanding flexibility and efficiency,PATRICIA tree has been applied to many large in-formation retrieval problems (Morrison, 1968).In our project, all biological words are insertedand stored in a PATRICIA tree, using which we canefficiently look up specific biological word or extractbiological words that share specified affixes and cal-culated required statistics.3.2 Experiment DesignIn this work, we have designed the experiments toextract domain-specific prefixes and suffixes of bio-logical words from a biological corpus, and investi-gate whether the extracted affix information couldfacilitate better biological term annotation.
Theoverall design of our experiments consists of threemajor processes: affix extraction, affix refining andevaluation of experimental results.
It is seen thatevery node in PATRICIA tree contains exactly onestring of 1 or more characters, which is the preced-ing substring of its descendant nodes.
Meanwhile,every word is a path of substrings from the root nodeto a leaf.
Therefore, we propose that every substringthat can be formed from traversing the internal nodesof the tree is a potential affix.In the affix extraction process, we first populate aPATRICIA tree using all words in the combined cor-pus(CC) of a Biological Corpus (BC) and a GeneralEnglish Corpus (GEC).
GEC is used against BC inorder to extract more accurate biological affix infor-mation.
Two PATRICIA trees are populated sepa-rately for extracting prefixes and suffixes.
The suffixtree is based on strings derived by reversing all theinput words from the combined corpus.
All the po-tential prefixes and suffixes are then extracted fromthe populated PATRICIA trees.In the affix refining process, for each extractedpotential affix, we compute its joint probability ofbeing both an English affix and a biological affix,P (D = Biology, A = Yes|PA), where D standsfor Domain, A stands for Affix and PA representsPotential Affix.
This joint probability can be fur-ther decomposed as shown in Eq.(1).
In the for-mula, P (A = Yes|PA) denotes the probability thata given potential affix is a true English affix whileP (D = Biology|A = Yes,PA) refers to the proba-bility that a given English affix is actually a biologi-cal affix.P (D = Biology, A = Yes|PA) =P (D=Biology|A=Yes,PA)?
P (A=Yes|PA) (1)To calculate P (A = Yes|PA), the probabilities ofprefixes and suffixes are measured separately.
Inlinguistics, a prefix is described as a type of affixthat precedes the morphemes to which it can attach(Soanes and Stevenson, 2004).
Simply speaking, aprefix is a substring that can be found at the begin-ning of a word.
Our functional definition of a prefixis a substring which precedes words existing in theEnglish language.
This can be done by enumerating,for each node, all descendant substring and assess-ing their existence as stand-alone words.
For exam-ple, ?radioimmunoassay?, ?radioiodine?
and ?radio-35labeled?
are three words and have a common start-ing string ?radio?.
If we take out the remaining partof each word, three new strings are obtained, ?im-munoassay?, ?iodine?
and ?labeled?.
Since all theinput words are already stored in PATRICIA tree,we lookup these three strings in PATRICIA tree andfind that ?immunoassay?, ?iodine?
and ?labeled?
arealso meaningful words in the tree.
This indicatesthat ?radio?
is a prefix among the input words.
Onthe other hand, it is obvious that ?radioimmunoas-say?
and ?radioiodine?
share another string ?radioi?.However, ?mmunoassay?
and ?odine?
are not mean-ingful words due to their absence in the PATRICIAtree.
This suggests that ?radioi?
is not a prefix.For each extracted potential prefix,P (A = Yes|PA) is computed as the proportion ofstrings formed by traversing all descendant nodesthat are meaningful terms.
In our experiments,the measure of determining a string meaningfulis to look up whether the string is an existingword present in the built prefix PATRICIA tree.Algorithm 1 shows the procedure of populating aPATRICIA tree and calculating P (A = Yes|PA)for each potential prefix.Algorithm 1 P (A = Yes|PA) for PrefixInput: words (w) ?
Combined Corpus (CC)Output: P (A = Yes|PA) for each potential prefixPT = ?
//PT : Patricia Triefor all words w ?
CC doPT ?
Insert(w) //Populating Patricia Triefor all nodes ni ?
PT doPA?
String(ni) //Concatenate strings// in nodes from root to ni,// which is a potential prefixTPA ?
PrefixSearch(PA)//TPA : all words w ?
CC beginning with PAscore ?
0for all words w ?
TPA doif Extrstr(PA,w) in PT then//Extrstr() returns the remaining string// of w without PAscore ++P (A = Yes|PA) ?
score/|TPA|//|TPA| is the number of words in TPALikewise, in linguistics a suffix is an affix thatfollows the morphemes to which it can attach(Soanes and Stevenson, 2004).
Simply speaking,a suffix of a word is a substring exactly match-ing the last part of the word.
Similar to the ideaof calculating P (A = Yes|PA) for potential pre-fix, we conjecture that the extracted potential suf-fix could be a reasonable English suffix if the in-verted strings formed from traversing the descen-dant nodes of the potential suffix in the suffix PA-TRICIA tree are meaningful words.
For instance,?Calcium-dependent?, ?Erythropoietin-dependent?and ?Ligand-dependent?
share a common endingstring ?-dependent?.
Since the remaining strings ofeach word, ?Calcium?, ?Erythropoietin?
and ?Lig-and?
can be found in the ?forward?
PATRICIA tree,?-dependent?
is a potentially useful suffix.However, it is often observable that some Englishwords do not begin with another meaningful wordbut a typical prefix, for example, ?alpha-bound?
and?pro-glutathione?.
It is known that ?-bound?and?-glutathione?
are good suffixes in biology.
?al-pha?
and ?pro?, however, are not meaningful wordsbut typical prefixes, and in fact have been extractedwhen calculating P (A = Yes|PA) for potential pre-fix.
Therefore, in order to detect and capture suchpotential suffixes, we further assume that if a wordbegins with a recognized prefix instead of anothermeaningful word, the remaining part of the wordstill has the potential to be an informative suffix.Therefore, strings ?-bound?
and ?-glutathione?
canbe successfully extracted as potential suffixes.
In ourexperiments, an extracted potential prefix is consid-ered a recognized prefix if its P (A = Yes|PA) isgreater than 0.5.To calculate P (D = Biology|A = Yes, PA), itis necessary to first determine true English affixesfrom extracted potential affixes.
In our experiments,we consider that an extracted potential prefix or suf-fix is a recognized affix only if its P (A = Yes|PA)is greater than 0.5.
It is also necessary to considerthe biological corpus BC and the general Englishcorpus GEC separately.
It is assumed that a biol-ogy related affix tends to occur more frequently inwords of BC than GEC.
Eq.
(2) is used to estimateP (D = Biology|A = Yes, PA).P (D = Biology|A = Yes, PA) =(#Words with PA in BC/Size (BC))/(#Words with PA in BC/Size (BC) +#Words with PA in GEC/Size (GEC)), (2)36where only PA with P (A = Yes|PA) greater than0.5 are used, and the number of words with a certainPA is further normalized by the size of each corpus.Finally, the joint probability of each potential af-fix, P (D = Biology, A = Yes|PA), can be used toparametrize a word beginning or ending with PA.In the evaluation process of our experiments, theprefix-suffix pair with maximum joint probabilityvalues is used to parametrize a word.
Therefore,each word in BC has exactly two values as affix fea-ture: a joint probability value for its potential prefixand a joint probability value for its potential suffix.We then replace the original affix feature of ABTAsystem with our obtained joint probability values,and investigate whether these new affix informationleads to equivalent or better term annotation on BC.4 Results and Evaluation4.1 Dataset and EnvironmentFor our experiments, it is necessary to use a corpusthat includes widely used biological terms and com-mon English words.
This dataset, therefore, will al-low us to accurately extract the information of bi-ology related affixes.
As a proof-of-concept proto-type, our experiments are conducted on two widelyused corpora: Genia corpus (v3.02) and Brown cor-pus2.The Genia version 3.02 corpus is used as thebiological corpus BC in our experiments.
It contains2,000 biological research paper abstracts.
They wereselected from the search results in the MEDLINEdatabase3, and each biological term has been an-notated into different terminal classes based on theopinions of experts in biology.
Used as the generalEnglish corpus GEC, Brown corpus includes 500samples of common English words, totalling abouta million words drawn from 15 different text cate-gories.All the experiments were executed on a Sun So-laris server Sun-Fire-880.
Our experiments weremainly implemented using Perl and Python.4.2 Experimental ResultsWe extracted 15,718 potential prefixes and 21,282potential suffixes from the combined corpus of Ge-nia and Brown.
Among them, there are 2,306 poten-tial prefixes and 1,913 potential suffixes with joint2http://clwww.essex.ac.uk/w3c/corpus ling/3http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed/probability value P (D = Biology, A = Yes|PA)greater than 0.5.
Table 1 shows a few examplesof extracted potential affixes whose joint probabil-ity value is equal to 1.0.
It is seen that most ofthese potential affixes are understandable biologicalaffixes which directly carry specific semantic mean-ings about certain biological terms.
However, somesubstrings are also captured as potential affixes al-though they may not be recognized as ?affixes?
inlinguistics, for example ?adenomyo?
in prefixes, and?mopoiesis?
in suffixes.
In Genia corpus, ?adeno-myo?
is the common beginning substring of biologi-cal terms ?adenomyoma?, ?adenomyosis?
and ?ade-nomyotic?
, while ?plasias?
is the common endingsubstring of biological terms ?neoplasias?
and ?hy-perplasias?.
The whole list of extracted potential af-fixes is available upon request.In order to investigate whether the extracted af-fixes improves the performance of biological termannotation, it is necessary to obtain the experimen-tal results of both original ABTA system and theABTA system using our extracted affix information.In ABTA, the extraction of feature attributes is per-formed on the whole 2000 abstracts of Genia cor-pus, and then 1800 abstracts are used as trainingset while the rest 200 abstracts are used as testingset.
The evaluation measures are precision, recalland F-score.
C4.5 decision tree classifier (Alpay-din, 2004) is reported as the most efficient classi-fier which leads to the best performance among allthe classifiers experimented in (Jiampojamarn et al,2005b).
Therefore, C4.5 is used as the main clas-sifier in our experiments.
The experimental resultsof ABTA system with 10 fold cross-validation basedon different combinations of the original features arepresented in Table 2 in which feature ?WFP?
is shortfor Word Feature Patterns, feature ?AC?
denotes Af-fix Characters, and feature ?POS?
refers to POS taginformation.
The setting of parameters in the exper-iments with ABTA is: the word n-gram size is 3, thenumber of word feature patterns is 3, and the numberof affix characters is 4.
We have reported the F-scoreand the classification accuracy of the experiments inthe table.
It is seen that there is a tendency with theexperimental performance that for a multi-word bi-ological term, the middle position is most difficultto detect while the ending position is generally eas-ier to be identified than the starting position.
Theassumed reason for this tendency is that for multi-37Potential Prefixes Potential Suffixes13-acetateB-cellendotoxinI-kappaBmacrophageadenomyoRel/NF-kappaBanti-CD28VitD3cytokine3-kinaseCD28HSV-1ligandN-alpha-tosyl-Lplateletpharmacoadenoviruschromatinhemoglobin-T-cell-coated-expressed-inducerplasias-alpha-activatedmopoiesis-nonresponsivecoagulant-solublecytoid-bearing-kappaB-mediated-globin-encoding-immortalized-methyllyse-receptorglycemiaracrineTable 1: Examples of Extracted Potential Affixes with Joint Probability Value 1.0word biological terms, many middle words of areseemingly unrelated to biology domain while manyending words directly indicate their identity, for in-stances, ?receptor?, ?virus?
or ?expression?.Table 3 shows the experimental results of ABTAsystem after replacing the original affix feature withour obtained joint probability values for each wordin Genia corpus.
?JPV?
is used to denote Joint Prob-ability Values.
It is seen that based on all threefeatures the system achieves a classification accu-racy of 87.5%, which is comparable to the resultsof the original ABTA system.
However, the size ofthe feature set of the system is significantly reduced,and the classification accuracy of 87.5% is achievedbased on only 18 parameters, which is 1/2 of the sizeof the original feature set.
Meanwhle, the executiontime of the experiments generally reduces to nearlyhalf of the original ABTA system (e.g., reduces from4 hours to 1.7 hours).
Furthermore, when the featureset contains only our extracted affix information, thesystem reaches a classification accuracy of 81.46%based on only 6 parameters.
It is comparable withthe classification accuracy achieved by using onlyPOS information in the system.
In addition, Table 3also presents the experimental results when our ex-tracted affix information is used as an addtional fea-ture to the original feature set.
It is expected that thesystem performance is further improved when thefour features are applied together.
However, the sizeof the feature set increases to 42 parameters, whichincreases the data redundancy.
This proves that theextracted affix information has a positive impact onlocating biological terms, and it could be a good re-placement of the original affix feature.Moreover, we also evaluated the performance ofthe exact matching biological term annotation basedon the obtained experimental results of ABTA sys-tem.
The exact matching annotation in ABTA sys-tem is to accurately identify every biological term,including both multi-word terms and single wordterms, therefore, all the word position classes ofa term have to be classified correctly at the sametime.
An error occurring in any one of ?Start?
?Mid-dle?
and ?End?
classes leads the system to annotatemulti-word terms incorrectly.
Consequently, the ac-cumulated errors will influence the exact matchingannotation performance.
Table 4 presents the exactmatching annotation results of different combinationof features based on 10 fold cross-validation overGenia corpus.
It is seen that after replacing the orig-inal affix feature of ABTA system with our obtainedjoint probability values for each word in Genia cor-pus, the system achieves an 0.664 F-score on exactmatching of biological term annotation, compara-ble to the exact matching performance of the orig-inal ABTA system.
In addition, when the featureset contains only our extracted affix information, thesystem reaches an 0.536 F-score on exact matching.Although it is a little lower than the exact matchingperformance achieved by using only the original af-fix features in the system, the feature set size of thesystem is significantly reduced from 24 to 6.In order to further compare our method with theoriginal ABTA system, we attempted eleven differ-ent sizes of training data set to run the experimentsseparately based on our method and the originalABTA system.
They can then be evaluated in termsof their performance on each training set size.
Theseeleven different training set sizes are: 0.25%, 0.5%,1%, 2.5%, 5%, 7.5%, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75% and90%.
For instance, 0.25% denotes that the train-ing data set is 0.25% of Genia corpus while therest 99.75% becomes the testing data set for exper-iments.
It is observed that there are about 21 paperabstracts in training set when its size is 1% , and 52abstracts when its size is 2.5%.
It is expected thatlarger training set size leads to better classificationaccuracy of experiments.For each training set size, we randomly extracted10 different training sets from Genia corpus to runthe experiments.
We then computed the mean clas-sification accuracy (MCA) of 10 obtained classifi-cation accuracies.
Figure 1 was drawn to illustratethe distribution of MCA of each training set size38Feature F-Measure Classification #sets Start Middle End Single Non Accuracy (%) ParametersWFP 0.467 0.279 0.495 0.491 0.864 74.59 9AC 0.709 0.663 0.758 0.719 0.932 85.67 24POS 0.69 0.702 0.775 0.67 0.908 83.96 3WFP+AC 0.717 0.674 0.762 0.730 0.933 86.02 33WFP+POS 0.726 0.721 0.793 0.716 0.923 85.96 12AC+POS 0.755 0.741 0.809 0.732 0.930 87.14 27WFP+AC+POS 0.764 0.745 0.811 0.749 0.933 87.59 36Table 2: Experimental Results of Original ABTA SystemFeature F-Measure Classification #sets Start Middle End Single Non Accuracy (%) ParametersJPV 0.652 0.605 0.713 0.602 0.898 81.46 6WFP+JPV 0.708 0.680 0.756 0.699 0.919 84.84 15JPV+POS 0.753 0.740 0.805 0.722 0.928 86.92 9WFP+JPV+POS 0.758 0.749 0.809 0.74 0.933 87.50 18WFP+AC+POS+JPV 0.767 0.746 0.816 0.751 0.934 87.77 42Table 3: Experimental Results of ABTA System with Extracted Affix Informationfor both methods, with the incremental proportion oftraining data.
It is noted in Figure 1 that the changepatterns of MCA obtained by our method and theoriginal ABTA system are similar.
It is also seenthat our method achieves marginally better classifi-cation performance when the proportion of trainingdata is under 2.5%.Figure 1: MCA DistributionIn order to determine if the classification perfor-mance difference between our method and the origi-nal ABTA system is statistically significant, we per-formed one-tailed t-Test (Alpaydin, 2004) on theclassification results with our hypothesis that MCAof our proposed method is higher than MCA of orig-inal ABTA system.
The significance level ?
is setto be the conventional value 0.05.
As a result, theclassification performance difference between twomethods is statistically significant when the propor-tion of training data is 0.25%, 0.5%, 1% or 2.5%.Table 5 shows the P values of t-Test results for thevarious training set sizes.
This demonstrates thatthe ABTA system adopting our method outperformsthe original ABTA system in classification accuracywhen the proportion of training data is lower than2.5% of Genia corpus, and achieves comparableclassification performance with the original ABTAsystem when the proportion continuously increases.One-tailed Training set sizet-Test 0.25% 0.5% 1% 2.5%P value 0.0298 0.0006 0.0002 0.0229Table 5: One-tailed t-Test Results5 ConclusionsIn this paper, we have presented an unsupervisedmethod to extract domain-specific prefixes and suf-fixes from the biological corpus based on the useof PATRICIA tree.
The ABTA system (Jiampoja-marn et al, 2005b) adopting our method achievesan overall classification accuracy of 87.5% in locat-ing biological terms, and derives an 0.664 F-score inexact term matching annotation, which are all com-parable to the experimental results obtained by theoriginal ABTA system.
However, our method helpsthe system significantly reduce the size of feature setand thus improves the system efficiency.
The sys-tem also obtains a classification accuracy of 81.46%based only on our extracted affix information.
This39Feature Exact Matching Annotation #sets Precision Recall F-score ParametersAC 0.548 0.571 0.559 24WFP+AC+POS 0.661 0.673 0.667 36JPV 0.527 0.545 0.536 6WFP+JPV+POS 0.658 0.669 0.664 18Table 4: Exact Matching Annotation Performancedemonstates that the affix information acheived bythe proposed method is important to accurately lo-cating biological terms.We further explored the reliability of our methodby gradually increasing the proportion of trainingdata from 0.25% to 90% of Genia corpus.
One-tailedt-Test results confirm that the ABTA system adopt-ing our method achieves more reliable performancethan the original ABTA system when the trainingcorpus is small.
The main result of this work is thusthat affix features can be parametrized from smallcorpora at no cost in performance.There are some aspects in which the proposedmethod can be improved in our future work.
Weare interested in investigating whether there existsa certain threshold value for the joint probabilitywhich might improve the classification accuracy ofABTA system to some extent.
However, this couldimport supervised elements into our method.
More-over, we would like to incorporate our method intoother published learning-based biological term an-notation systems to see if better system performancewill be achieved.
However, superior parametriza-tion will improve the annotation performance onlyif the affix information is not redundant with otherfeatures such as POS.ReferencesEthem Alpaydin.
2004.
Introduction to Machine Learning.MIT Press.William B. Cavnar and John M. Trenkle.
1994.
N-gram-basedtext categorization.
In Proc.
SDAIR-94, 3rd Ann.
Symposiumon Doc.
Analysis and Inf.
Retr., pages 161?175, Las Vegas,USA.Aaron Michael Cohen and William R. Hersh.
2005.
A sur-vey of current work in biomedical text mining.
Briefings inBioinformatics, 5(1):57?71.Jenny Finkel, Shipra Dingare, Huy Nguyen, Malvina Nissim,Gail Sinclair, and Christopher Manning.
2004.
Exploitingcontext for biomedical entity recognition: From syntax tothe web.
In Joint wsh.
on NLP in Biomedicine and its Appli-cations (JNLPBA-2004).Kristofer Franzn, Gunnar Eriksson, Fredrik Olsson, LarsAsker Per Lidn, and Joakim Cster.
2002.
Protein namesand how to find them.
International Journal of Medical In-formatics special issue on NLP in Biomedical Applications,pages 49?61.Kristofer Franzn, Gunnar Eriksson, Fredrik Olsson, LarsAsker Per Lidn, and Joakim Cster.
2003.
Mining the Bio-medical Literature in the Genomic Era: An Overview.
J.Comp.
Biol., 10(6):821?855.K.
Fukuda, T. Tsunoda, A. Tamura, and T. Takagi.
1998.
To-ward information extraction: Identifying protein names frombiological papers.
In the Pacific Symposium on Biocomput-ing, pages 707?718.Sittichai Jiampojamarn, Nick Cercone, and Vlado Kes?elj.2005a.
Automatic Biological Term Annotation Using N-gram and Classification Models.
Master?s thesis, Faculty ofComp.Sci., Dalhousie University.Sittichai Jiampojamarn, Nick Cercone, and Vlado Kes?elj.2005b.
Biological Named Entity Recognition using N-grams and Classification Methods.
In Conf.
of the PacificAssoc.
for Computational Linguistics, PACLING?05, Tokyo,Japan.Ki-Joong Lee, Young-Sook Hwang, and Hae-Chang Rim.2003.
Two-phase biomedical NE recognition based onSVMs.
In Proc.
of the ACL 2003 workshop on Natural lan-guage processing in biomedicine, pages 33?40, Morristown,NJ, USA.
ACL.Donald R. Morrison.
1968.
Patricia - Practical Algorithm ToRetrieve Information Coded in Alphanumeric.
Journal ofthe ACM, 15(4):514?534.Goran Nenadic and Sophia Ananiadou.
2006.
Mining semanti-cally related terms from biomedical literature.
ACM Trans-actions on Asian Language Information Processing (TALIP),5(1):22 ?
43.Burr Settles.
2004.
Biomedical named entity recognition usingconditional random fields and novel feature sets.
In Jointwsh.
on NLP in Biomedicine and its Applications (JNLPBA-2004).Dan Shen, Jie Zhang, Guodong Zhou, Jian Su, and Chew-LimTan.
2003.
Effective adaptation of a Hidden Markov Model-based named entity recognizer for biomedical domain.
InProc.
of the ACL 2003 wsh.
on NLP in Biomedicine, pages49?56, Morristown, NJ, USA.Catherine Soanes and Angus Stevenson.
2004.
Oxford Dictio-nary of English.
Oxford University Press.40
