Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Morphology and Phonology, pages 101?108,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsEmergence of Community Structures in Vowel Inventories:An Analysis based on Complex NetworksAnimesh Mukherjee, Monojit Choudhury, Anupam Basu, Niloy GangulyDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering,Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur{animeshm,monojit,anupam,niloy}@cse.iitkgp.ernet.inAbstractIn this work, we attempt to capture patternsof co-occurrence across vowel systems andat the same time figure out the nature of theforce leading to the emergence of such pat-terns.
For this purpose we define a weightednetwork where the vowels are the nodesand an edge between two nodes (read vow-els) signify their co-occurrence likelihoodover the vowel inventories.
Through thisnetwork we identify communities of vow-els, which essentially reflect their patternsof co-occurrence across languages.
We ob-serve that in the assortative vowel communi-ties the constituent nodes (read vowels) arelargely uncorrelated in terms of their fea-tures indicating that they are formed basedon the principle of maximal perceptual con-trast.
However, in the rest of the communi-ties, strong correlations are reflected amongthe constituent vowels with respect to theirfeatures indicating that it is the principle offeature economy that binds them together.1 IntroductionLinguistic research has documented a wide range ofregularities across the sound systems of the world?slanguages (Liljencrants and Lindblom, 1972; Lind-blom, 1986; de Boer, 2000; Choudhury et al, 2006;Mukherjee et al, 2006a; Mukherjee et al, 2006b).Functional phonologists argue that such regulari-ties are the consequences of certain general princi-ples like maximal perceptual contrast (Liljencrantsand Lindblom, 1972), which is desirable betweenthe phonemes of a language for proper percep-tion of each individual phoneme in a noisy envi-ronment, ease of articulation (Lindblom and Mad-dieson, 1988; de Boer, 2000), which requires thatthe sound systems of all languages are formed ofcertain universal (and highly frequent) sounds, andease of learnability (de Boer, 2000), which is re-quired so that a speaker can learn the sounds ofa language with minimum effort.
In the study ofvowel systems the optimizing principle, which hasa long tradition (Jakobson, 1941; Wang, 1968) inlinguistics, is maximal perceptual contrast.
A num-ber of numerical studies based on this principle havebeen reported in literature (Liljencrants and Lind-blom, 1972; Lindblom, 1986; Schwartz et al, 1997).Of late, there have been some attempts to explain thevowel systems through multi agent simulations (deBoer, 2000) and genetic algorithms (Ke et al, 2003);all of these experiments also use the principle of per-ceptual contrast for optimization purposes.An exception to the above trend is a school oflinguists (Boersma, 1998; Clements, 2004) who ar-gue that perceptual contrast-based theories fail to ac-count for certain fundamental aspects such as thepatterns of co-occurrence of vowels based on sim-ilar acoustic/articulatory features1 observed across1In linguistics, features are the elements, which distinguishone phoneme from another.
The features that describe thevowles can be broadly categorized into three different classesnamely the height, the backness and the roundedness.
Heightrefers to the vertical position of the tongue relative to either theroof of the mouth or the aperture of the jaw.
Backness refersto the horizontal tongue position during the articulation of avowel relative to the back of the mouth.
Roundedness refers towhether the lips are rounded or not during the articulation of a101the vowel inventories.
Instead, they posit that theobserved patterns, especially found in larger size in-ventories (Boersma, 1998), can be explained onlythrough the principle of feature economy (de Groot,1931; Martinet, 1955).
According to this principle,languages tend to maximize the combinatorial pos-sibilities of a few distinctive features to generate alarge number of sounds.The aforementioned ideas can be possibly linkedtogether through the example illustrated by Figure 1.As shown in the figure, the initial plane P constitutesof a set of three very frequently occurring vowels /i/,/a/ and /u/, which usually make up the smaller in-ventories and do not have any single feature in com-mon.
Thus, smaller inventories are quite likely tohave vowels that exhibit a large extent of contrastin their constituent features.
However, in bigger in-ventories, members from the higher planes (P?
andP??)
are also present and they in turn exhibit fea-ture economy.
For instance, in the plane P?
com-prising of the set of vowels /?i/, /a?/, /u?/, we find anasal modification applied equally on all the threemembers of the set.
This is actually indicative of aneconomic behavior that the larger inventories showwhile choosing a new feature in order to reduce thelearnability effort of the speakers.
The third planeP??
reinforces this idea by showing that the largerthe size of the inventories the greater is the urge forthis economy in the choice of new features.
An-other interesting facet of the figure are the relationsthat exist across the planes (indicated by the bro-ken lines).
All these relations are representative of acommon linguistic concept of robustness (Clements,2004) in which one less frequently occurring vowel(say /?i/) implies the presence of the other (and notvice versa) frequently occurring vowel (say /i/) in alanguage inventory.
These cross-planar relations arealso indicative of feature economy since all the fea-tures present in the frequent vowel (e.g., /i/) are alsoshared by the less frequent one (e.g., /?i/).
In sum-mary, while the basis of organization of the vowelinventories is perceptual contrast as indicated bythe plane P in Figure 1, economic modifications ofthe perceptually distinct vowels takes place with thevowel.
There are however still more possible features of vowelquality, such as the velum position (e.g., nasality), type of vocalfold vibration (i.e., phonation), and tongue root position (i.e.,secondary place of articulation).increase in the inventory size (as indicated by theplanes P ?
and P ??
in Figure 1).In this work we attempt to corroborate the aboveconjecture by automatically capturing the patterns ofco-occurrence that are prevalent in and across theplanes illustrated in Figure 1.
In order to do so,we define the ?Vowel-Vowel Network?
or VoNet,which is a weighted network where the vowels arethe nodes and an edge between two nodes (read vow-els) signify their co-occurrence likelihood over thevowel inventories.
We conduct community struc-ture analysis of different versions of VoNet in or-der to capture the patterns of co-occurrence in andacross the planes P , P ?
and P ??
shown in Figure 1.The plane P consists of the communities, whichare formed of those vowels that have a very highfrequency of occurrence (usually assortative (New-man, 2003) in nature).
We observe that the con-stituent nodes (read vowels) of these assortativevowel communities are largely uncorrelated in termsof their features.
On the other hand, the commu-nities obtained from VoNet, in which the links be-tween the assortative nodes are absent, correspondsto the co-occurrence patterns of the planes P?
andP??.
In these communities, strong correlations arereflected among the constituent vowels with respectto their features.
Moreover, the co-occurrencesacross the planes can be captured by the communityanalysis of VoNet where only the connections be-tween the assortative and the non-assortative nodes,with the non-assortative node co-occurring very fre-quently with the assortative one, are retained whilethe rest of the connections are filtered out.
We findthat these communities again exhibit a high correla-tion among the constituent vowels.This article is organized as follows: Section 2 de-scribes the experimental setup in order to explorethe co-occurrence principles of the vowel inven-tories.
In this section we formally define VoNet,outline its construction procedure, and present acommunity-finding algorithm in order to capture theco-occurrence patterns across the vowel systems.
Insection 3 we report the experiments performed toobtain the community structures, which are repre-sentative of the co-occurrence patterns in and acrossthe planes discussed above.
Finally, we conclude insection 4 by summarizing our contributions, point-ing out some of the implications of the current work102Figure 1: The organizational principles of the vowels (in decreasing frequency of occurrence) indicatedthrough different hypothetical planes.and indicating the possible future directions.2 Experimental SetupIn this section we systematically develop the ex-perimental setup in order to investigate the co-occurrence principles of the vowel inventories.
Forthis purpose, we formally define VoNet, outlineits construction procedure, describe a community-finding algorithm to decompose VoNet to obtain thecommunity structures that essentially reflects the co-occurrence patterns of the vowel inventories.2.1 Definition and Construction of VoNetDefinition of VoNet: We define VoNet as a networkof vowels, represented as G = ?
VV, E ?
where VVis the set of nodes labeled by the vowels and E isthe set of edges occurring in VoNet.
There is anedge e ?
E between two nodes, if and only if thereexists one or more language(s) where the nodes(read vowels) co-occur.
The weight of the edge e(also edge-weight) is the number of languages inwhich the vowels connected by e co-occur.
Theweight of a node u (also node-weight) is the numberof languages in which the vowel represented by uoccurs.
In other words, if a vowel virepresented bythe node u occurs in the inventory of n languagesthen the node-weight of u is assigned the valuen.
Also if the vowel vjis represented by the nodev and there are w languages in which vowels viand vjoccur together then the weight of the edgeconnecting u and v is assigned the value v. Figure 2illustrates this structure by reproducing some of thenodes and edges of VoNet.Construction of VoNet: Many typological stud-ies (Lindblom and Maddieson, 1988; Ladefogedand Maddieson, 1996; Hinskens and Weijer, 2003;Choudhury et al, 2006; Mukherjee et al, 2006a;Mukherjee et al, 2006b) of segmental inventorieshave been carried out in past on the UCLA Phono-logical Segment Inventory Database (UPSID) (Mad-dieson, 1984).
Currently UPSID records the soundinventories of 451 languages covering all the majorlanguage families of the world.
The selection of thelanguages for the inclusion on UPSID is governedby a quota principle seeking maximum genetic di-versity among extant languages in order to reducebias towards any particular family.
In this work wehave therefore used UPSID comprising of these 451languages and 180 vowels found across them, for103Figure 3: A partial illustration of VoNet.
All edges in this figure have an edge-weight greater than or equal to15.
The number on each node corresponds to a particular vowel.
For instance, node number 72 correspondsto /?i/.constructing VoNet.
Consequently, the set VVcom-prises 180 elements (nodes) and the set E comprises3135 elements (edges).
Figure 3 presents a partialillustration of VoNet as constructed from UPSID.2.2 Finding Community StructuresWe attempt to identify the communities appearingin VoNet by the extended Radicchi et al (Radic-chi et al, 2003) algorithm for weighted networkspresented in (Mukherjee et al, 2006a).
The ba-sic idea is that if the weights on the edges form-ing a triangle (loops of length three) are comparablethen the group of vowels represented by this trian-gle highly occur together rendering a pattern of co-occurrence while if these weights are not compara-ble then there is no such pattern.
In order to capturethis property we define a strength metric S (in thelines of (Mukherjee et al, 2006a)) for each of theedges of VoNet as follows.
Let the weight of theedge (u,v), where u, v ?
VV, be denoted by wuv.We define S as,S =wuv??i?VC?{u,v}(wui?
wvi)2(1)if??i?VC?{u,v}(wui?
wvi)2> 0 else S = ?.The denominator in this expression essentially triesto capture whether or not the weights on the edgesforming triangles are comparable (the higher thevalue of S the more comparable the weights are).The network can be then decomposed into clusters104Figure 2: A partial illustration of the nodes andedges in VoNet.
The labels of the nodes denote thevowels represented in IPA (International PhoneticAlphabet).
The numerical values against the edgesand nodes represent their corresponding weights.For example /i/ occurs in 393 languages; /e/ occursin 124 languages while they co-occur in 117 lan-guages.or communities by removing edges that have S lessthan a specified threshold (say ?
).At this point it is worthwhile to clarify the sig-nificance of a vowel community.
A community ofvowels actually refers to a set of vowels which occurtogether in the language inventories very frequently.In other words, there is a higher than expected prob-ability of finding a vowel v in an inventory which al-ready hosts the other members of the community towhich v belongs.
For instance, if /i/, /a/ and /u/ forma vowel community and if /i/ and /a/ are present inany inventory then there is a very high chance thatthe third member /u/ is also present in the inventory.3 Experiments and ResultsIn this section we describe the experiments per-formed and the results obtained from the analysis ofVoNet.
In order to find the co-occurrence patternsin and across the planes of Figure 1 we define threeversions of VoNet namely VoNetassort, VoNetrestand VoNetrest?
.
The construction procedure foreach of these versions are presented below.Construction of VoNetassort: VoNetassortcom-prises the assortative2 nodes having node-weights2The term ?assortative node?
here refers to the nodes havinga very high node-weight, i.e., consonants having a very highabove 120 (i.e, vowels occurring in more than 120languages in UPSID), along with only the edgesinter-connecting these nodes.
The rest of the nodes(having node-weight less than 120) and edges areremoved from the network.
We make a choiceof this node-weight for classifying the assortativenodes from the non-assortative ones by observingthe distribution of the occurrence frequency of thevowels illustrated in Figure 4.
The curve showsthe frequency of a vowel (y-axis) versus the rankof the vowel according to this frequency (x-axis)in log-log scale.
The high frequency zone (markedby a circle in the figure) can be easily distinguishedfrom the low-frequency one since there is distinctgap featuring between the two in the curve.Figure 4: The frequency (y-axis) versus rank (x-axis) curve in log-log scale illustrating the distrib-ution of the occurrence of the vowels over the lan-guage inventories of UPSID.Figure 5 illustrates how VoNetassortis con-structed from VoNet.
Presently, the number ofnodes in VoNetassortis 9 and the number of edgesis 36.Construction of VoNetrest: VoNetrestcomprisesall the nodes as that of VoNet.
It also has allthe edges of VoNet except for those edges thatinter-connect the assortative nodes.
Figure 6 showshow VoNetrestcan be constructed from VoNet.
Thenumber of nodes and edges in VoNetrestare 180frequency of occurrence.105Figure 5: The construction procedure of VoNetassortfrom VoNet.and 12933 respectively.Construction of VoNetrest?
: VoNetrest?
againcomprises all the nodes as that of VoNet.
It con-sists of only the edges that connect an assorta-tive node with a non-assortative one if the non-assortative node co-occurs more than ninety five per-cent of times with the assortative nodes.
The basicidea behind such a construction is to capture the co-occurrence patterns based on robustness (Clements,2004) (discussed earlier in the introductory section)that actually defines the cross-planar relationships inFigure 1.
Figure 7 shows how VoNetrest?
can beconstructed from VoNet.
The number of nodes inVoNetrest?
is 180 while the number of edges is 1144.We separately apply the community-finding al-gorithm (discussed earlier) on each of VoNetassort,VoNetrestand VoNetrest?
in order to obtain the re-spective vowel communities.
We can obtain dif-ferent sets of communities by varying the threshold?.
A few assortative vowel communities (obtainedfrom VoNetassort) are noted in Table 1.
Some of the3We have neglected nodes with node-weight less than 3since these nodes correspond to vowels that occur in less than 3languages in UPSID and the communities they form are there-fore statistically insignificant.4The network does not get disconnected due to this construc-tion since, there is always a small fraction of edges that run be-tween assortative and low node-weight non-assortative nodes ofotherwise disjoint groups.communities obtained from VoNetrestare presentedin Table 2.
We also note some of the communitiesobtained from VoNetrest?
in Table 3.Tables 1 , 2 and 3 indicate that the communi-ties in VoNetassortare formed based on the princi-ple of perceptual contrast whereas the formation ofthe communities in VoNetrestas well as VoNetrest?is largely governed by feature economy.
Hence,the smaller vowel inventories which are composedof mainly the members of VoNetassortare orga-nized based on the principle of maximal percep-tual contrast whereas the larger vowel inventories,which also contain members from VoNetrestandVoNetrest?
apart from VoNetassort, show a consider-able extent of feature economy.
Note that the groupspresented in the tables are quite representative andthe technique described above indeed captures manyother such groups; however, due to paucity of spacewe are unable to present all of them here.4 ConclusionIn this paper we explored the co-occurrence prin-ciples of the vowels, across the inventories of theworld?s languages.
In order to do so we started witha concise review of the available literature on vowelinventories.
We proposed an automatic procedureto extract the co-occurrence patterns of the vowelsacross languages.Some of our important findings from this workare,?
The smaller vowel inventories (correspondingto the communities ofVoNetassort) tend to be organized based on theprinciple of maximal perceptual contrast;?
On the other hand, the larger vowel invento-ries (mainly comprising of the communities ofVoNetrest) reflect a considerable extent of fea-ture economy;?
Co-occurrences based on robustness are preva-lent across vowel inventories (captured throughthe communities of VoNetrest?)
and their emer-gence is again a consequence of feature econ-omy.Until now, we have concentrated mainly on themethodology that can be used to automatically cap-106Figure 6: The construction procedure of VoNetrestfrom VoNet.Figure 7: The construction procedure of VoNetrest?
from VoNet.Community Features in Contrast/i/, /a/, /u/ (low/high), (front/central/back), (unrounded/rounded)/e/, /o/ (higher-mid/mid), (front/back), (unrounded/rounded)Table 1: Assortative vowel communities.
The contrastive features separated by slashes (/) are shown withinparentheses.
Comma-separated entries represent the features that are in use from the three respective classesnamely the height, the backness, and the roundedness.ture the co-occurrence patterns across the vowel sys-tems.
However, it would be also interesting to in-vestigate the extent to which these patterns are gov-erned by the forces of maximal perceptual contrastand feature economy.
Such an investigation callsfor quantitative definitions of the above forces and107Community Features in Common/?i/, /a?/, /u?/ nasalized/?i:/, /a?
:/, /u?
:/ long, nasalized/i:/, /u:/, /a:/, /o:/, /e:/ longTable 2: Some of the vowel communities obtained from VoNetrest.Community Features in Common/i/, /?i/ high, front, unrounded/a/, /a?/ low, central, unrounded/u/, /u?/ high, back, roundedTable 3: Some of the vowel communities obtained from VoNetrest?
.
Comma-separated entries represent thefeatures that are in use from the three respective classes namely the height, the backness, and the rounded-ness.a thorough evaluation of the vowel communities interms of these definitions.
We look forward to ac-complish the same as a part of our future work.ReferencesB.
de Boer.
2000.
Self-organisation in vowel systems,Journal of Phonetics, 28(4), 441?465.P.
Boersma.
1998.
Functional phonology, Doctoral the-sis, University of Amsterdam, The Hague: HollandAcademic Graphics.M.
Choudhury, A. Mukherjee, A. Basu and N. Ganguly.2006.
Analysis and synthesis of the distribution ofconsonants over languages: A complex network ap-proach, Proceedings of COLING?ACL, 128?135, Syd-ney, Australia.N.
Clements.
2004.
Features and sound inventories,Symposium on Phonological Theory: Representationsand Architecture, CUNY.A.
W. de Groot.
1931.
Phonologie und Phonetik alsfunktionswissenschaften, Travaux du Cercle Linguis-tique de, 4, 116?147.F.
Hinskens and J. Weijer.
2003.
Patterns of segmen-tal modification in consonant inventories: A cross-linguistic study, Linguistics, 41, 6.R.
Jakobson.
2003.
Kindersprache, aphasie und allge-meine lautgesetze, Uppsala, reprinted in Selected Writ-ings I. Mouton, (The Hague, 1962), 328-401.J.
Ke, M. Ogura and W.S.-Y.
Wang.
2003.
Optimizationmodels of sound systems using genetic algorithms,Computational Linguistics, 29(1), 1?18.P.
Ladefoged and I. Maddieson.
1996.
Sounds of theworlds languages, Oxford: Blackwell.J.
Liljencrants and B. Lindblom.
1972.
Numerical simu-lation of vowel quality systems: the role of perceptualcontrast, Language, 48, 839?862.B.
Lindblom.
1986.
Phonetic universals in vowel sys-tems, Experimental Phonology, 13?44.B.
Lindblom and I. Maddieson.
1988.
Phonetic uni-versals in consonant systems, Language, Speech, andMind, Routledge, London, 62?78.I.
Maddieson.
Patterns of sounds, 1984.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.A.
Martinet.
1955.
`Economie des changementsphone?tiques, Berne: A. Francke.A.
Mukherjee, M. Choudhury, A. Basu and N. Ganguly.2006.
Modeling the co-occurrence principles of theconsonant inventories: A complex network approach,arXiv:physics/0606132 (preprint).A.
Mukherjee, M. Choudhury, A. Basu and N. Gan-guly.
2006.
Self-organization of the Sound In-ventories: Analysis and Synthesis of the Occur-rence and Co-occurrence Networks of Consonants.arXiv:physics/0610120 (preprint).M.
E. J. Newman.
2003.
The structure and function ofcomplex networks, SIAM Review, 45, 167?256.F.
Radicchi, C. Castellano, F. Cecconi, V. Loreto and D.Parisi.
2003.
Defining and identifying communities innetworks, PNAS, 101(9), 2658?2663.J-L. Schwartz, L-J.
Bo?e, N. Valle?e and C. Abry.
1997.The dispersion-focalization theory of vowel systems,Journal of Phonetics, 25, 255?286.W.
S.-Y.
Wang.
1968.
The basis of speech.
Projecton linguistic analysis reports, University of California,Berkeley, (reprinted in The Learning of Language in1971).108
