Proceedings of SSST, NAACL-HLT 2007 / AMTA Workshop on Syntax and Structure in Statistical Translation, pages 9?16,Rochester, New York, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtraction Phenomena in Synchronous TAG Syntax and SemanticsRebecca Nesson and Stuart M. ShieberSchool of Engineering and Applied SciencesHarvard UniversityCambridge, MA 02138{nesson,shieber}@deas.harvard.eduAbstractWe present a proposal for the structureof noun phrases in Synchronous Tree-Adjoining Grammar (STAG) syntax andsemantics that permits an elegant and uni-form analysis of a variety of phenom-ena, including quantifier scope and ex-traction phenomena such as wh-questionswith both moved and in-place wh-words,pied-piping, stranding of prepositions, andtopicalization.
The tight coupling be-tween syntax and semantics enforced bythe STAG helps to illuminate the criticalrelationships and filter out analyses thatmay be appealing for either syntax or se-mantics alone but do not allow for a mean-ingful relationship between them.1 IntroductionNesson and Shieber (2006) showed how a now-standard variant of the tree-adjoining grammar(TAG) formalism (multi-component, multiple ad-junction, finite-feature-based TAG), when synchro-nized, leads to a natural analysis of the syntax-semantics relation, including handling of syntacticmovement phenomena such as wh questions and rel-ativization, semantic ?movement?
phenomena suchas quantification, quantifier scope ambiguity, andeven their interactions as found in pied-piped rela-tive clauses.1 phenomena were previously viewed1This work was supported in part by grant IIS-0329089 fromthe National Science Foundation.as problematic for TAG analyses, leading to the hy-pothesizing of various extensions to the TAG for-malism (Kallmeyer and Romero, 2004, and workcited therein).
Independently, Han (2006a) devel-oped a similar synchronous TAG analysis of pied-piping, providing evidence for the naturalness of theanalysis.Here, we update the analyses of noun phrasesfound in the previous works in one simple way,again with no additional formal TAG innovations,and show that it allows a further coverage of extrac-tion and quantification phenomena as well as in-situwh-phrases and topicalization.
We emphasize thatno novel formal devices are postulated to achievethis increased coverage ?
just a simple, natural anduniform change to the canonical structure of NPsand their semantics.A word may be useful on the pertinence of thiswork in a workshop on ?syntax and structure in ma-chine translation?, above and beyond the intrinsicimportance of exploring the ?applications of [syn-chronous/transduction grammars] to related areasincluding.
.
.
formal semantics?
underlying the work-shop.
Tree-structured mappings are advocated formachine translation systems because they allow forthe expression of generalizations about relationshipsbetween languages more accurately and effectively.Evidence for this benefit ought to be found in theability of the formalisms to characterize the primi-tive linguistic relationships as well, in particular, theform-meaning relationship for a natural language.The present work is part of a general program toexplore the suitability of synchronous grammars forexpressing this primary linguistic relationship.
Inso-9far as it is successful, it lends credence to the use ofthese formal tools for a variety of language process-ing tasks, including MT.
Insofar as it reveals insuffi-ciencies in the formalism, it may lead to insights inthe design or deployment of alternative systems.We present a proposal for the structure of nounphrases in Synchronous Tree-Adjoining Grammar(STAG) syntax and semantics that permits an elegantand uniform analysis of a variety of phenomena, in-cluding quantifier scope and extraction phenomenasuch as wh-questions with both moved and in-situwh-words, pied-piping, stranding of prepositions,and topicalization.
Furthermore, the tight couplingbetween syntax and semantics enforced by grammarsynchronization helps to illuminate the critical rela-tionships and filter out analyses that may be appeal-ing for either syntax or semantics alone but do notallow for a meaningful relationship between them.We begin in Section 2 with a brief review of syn-chronous TAG and its application to English syntaxand semantics.
In Section 3, we present an analysisof quantifier scope that elucidates the relationshipbetween the syntactic and semantic structures andexplains an anomaly of previously proposed analy-ses.
We apply the underlying idea from Section 3to wh-questions in Section 4, showing that an al-teration of the standard TAG syntax analysis of wh-questions produces the same derived trees while alsoelegantly modeling in-place wh-words.
In Section 5we present a challenging case for STAG syntax andsemantics, the stranding of prepositions.
This caseis particularly difficult because the syntactic analy-ses suggested by previous work in STAG syntax donot encapsulate the relationships that appear neces-sary for the semantics.
Our proposed analysis fallsout naturally from the revision to the syntax of wh-words and respects both Frank?s Condition on Ele-mentary Tree Minimality (CETM) and the seman-tic relationships in the construction.
In Section 6we give an analysis of topicalization that also fol-lows from the underlying ideas of the earlier analy-ses.
We summarize the main ideas of the analysis inSection 7.2 Introduction to Synchronous TAGA tree-adjoining grammar (TAG) consists of aset of elementary tree structures of arbitrary depth,SNP?
V PNP?VlikesNPJohnSV PNP?VlikesNPJohnV PAdv V P?SNP?
V PNP?VlikesapparentlyV PAdvSNP?V PNP?Vlikesapparently=?=?Figure 1: Example TAG substitution and adjunction.which are combined with two operations, substitu-tion and adjunction.
Internal nodes in the elementarytrees are labeled with a nonterminal symbol.
Fron-tier nodes may be labeled with either terminal sym-bols or nonterminal symbols annotated with one ofthe diacritics ?
or ?.
The ?
diacritic marks a frontiernonterminal node as a substitution node, the targetof the substitution operation.
The substitution op-eration occurs when an elementary tree rooted in anonterminal symbol A replaces a substitution nodewith the same nonterminal symbol.Auxiliary trees are elementary trees in which theroot and a frontier node, called the foot node anddistinguished by the diacritic ?, are labeled with thesame nonterminal A.
The adjunction operation in-volves splicing an auxiliary tree in at an internalnode in an elementary tree also labeled with non-terminal A.
Trees without a foot node, intended forsubstitution rather than adjunction into other trees,are called initial trees.
Examples of the substitu-tion and adjunction operations on sample elemen-tary trees are shown in Figure 1.
For further infor-mation, refer to Joshi and Schabes (1997).Synchronous TAG (Shieber, 1994; Shieber andSchabes, 1990) extends TAG by taking the elemen-tary structures to be pairs of TAG trees with linksbetween particular nodes in those trees.
Derivationproceeds as in TAG except that all operations mustbe paired.
That is, a tree can only be substituted oradjoined at a node if its pair is simultaneously sub-stituted or adjoined at a linked node.
We notate thelinks by using boxed indices i marking linked nodes.10maryj o h napparentlylikes1 2341234NPNPeeV PAdv V P?tt ?SNP?
V PNP?Vte?e?likes?
t , t ?apparentlyJohnM a r y?e , t?likesj o h napparentlymary23 4V PVlikesV PAdvapparentlyNPNPJohn M a r ySlikest?e , t?apparentlyt?
t , t ?marye j o h ne( a ) ( b ) ( c )Figure 2: An English syntax/semantics STAG fragment (a), derived tree pair (b), and derivation tree (c) forthe sentence ?John apparently likes Mary.
?As first described by Shieber and Schabes (1990),STAG can be used to provide a semantics for a TAGsyntactic analysis by taking the tree pairs to repre-sent a syntactic analysis synchronized with a seman-tic analysis.For example, Figure 2(a) contains a sample En-glish syntax/semantics grammar fragment that canbe used to analyze the sentence ?John apparentlylikes Mary?.
The node labels we use in the seman-tics correspond to the semantic types of the phrasesthey dominate.Figure 2(c) shows the derivation tree for the sen-tence.
Substitutions are notated with a solid line andadjunctions are notated with a dashed line.
Each linkin the derivation tree specifies a link number in theelementary tree pair, providing the location at whichthe operations take place.
In this case, the tree pairsfor the noun phrases John and Mary substitute intothe likes tree pair at links 3 and 4 , respectively.
Theword apparently adjoins at link 2 .
The tree pair soderived is shown in Figure 2(b).
The resulting se-mantic representation can be read off the right-handderived tree by treating the leftmost child of a nodeas a functor and its siblings as its arguments.
Oursample sentence thus results in the semantic repre-sentation apparently(likes( john,mary)).3 Quantifier ScopeWe start by reviewing the prior approach to quan-tifier semantics in synchronous TAG.
Consider thesentence ?Everyone likes someone.?
We would liketo allow both the reading where some takes scopeover every and the reading where every takes scopeover some.
We start with the proposal of Shieber andSchabes (1990), which used multi-component TAGfor the semantic portion of a synchronous TAG.Each quantified noun phrase has a two-componenttree set as its semantics.
One component introducesthe variable quantified over in the scope of the quan-tifier; the other adjoins over the scope to provide thequantifier and restriction.
Williford (1993) exploredthe use of multiple adjunction (Schabes and Shieber,1993) to achieve scope ambiguity.
Since the scopecomponents of subject and object noun phrasesadjoin at the same location in the semantic tree,they give rise to a systematic ambiguity as to whichdominates the other in the derived tree, reflectingthe semantic scope ambiguity of the sentence; thederivation tree itself is therefore a scope neutralrepresentation.
Previous work by Han (2006a;2006b) and Nesson and Shieber (2006) describethis approach in detail, showing its applicability toa range of semantic phenomena.A range of research has proceeded in an alter-native line of using complex-feature-based TAG ?rather than synchronous TAG ?
for TAG seman-tics (Kallmeyer and Romero, 2004, and work citedtherein).
Semantic representations are carried in fea-tures associated with nodes.
Nonetheless, multi-component TAG with separate trees for bound po-sition and scope is used here too.
However, the twotrees are syntactic trees, the quantified NP tree and avestigial S tree, respectively.
(An example is shownin Figure 6.)
In such analyses, the single-node aux-iliary S tree is used for the scope part of the syntaxin order to get the desired relationship between thequantifier and the quantified expression in featuresthreaded through the derivation tree and hence in thesemantics.The present analysis marries these two ap-11NPDet N?tevery xxtt ?ex11every?e, t?
?NPDet N?ttt ?e11 ?e, t?
?s o m eso m eyyy234SNP?
V PNP?Vlikeslikes1 24te ?e ?
?e, t?
33 4personone?e, t?NNPDeteverySV PVlikesNPDet Nso m eN tperson?e, t?ys o m eytttevery xxtperson?e, t?one one likes?e, t?
exeytperson?e, t?ttttperson?e, t?likes?e, t?
exeyeverys o m exyyxlikesevery s o m epersonperson31 14( a )( b )( c )S ?
S ?
31 4Figure 3: The elementary tree pairs (a), derivation tree (b), and derived trees (c) for the sentence ?Everyonelikes someone?.
Note that the derivation tree is a scope neutral representation: depending on whether everyor some adjoins higher, we obtain different semantic derived trees and scope orderings.proaches.
Like the previous STAG work, we pro-pose a solution in which a multi-component tree setprovides semantics for quantified phrases, with mul-tiple adjunction providing scope ambiguity.
Likethe complex-feature-based approach, we reflect themulti-component structure in the syntax as well.
Itis this single change in the analysis that makes pos-sible the coverage of the wide range of phenomenawe describe here.Combining these two approaches, we give boththe syntactic and semantic trees for quantifiers twoparts, as depicted in Figure 3(a).
In the semantics,the top part corresponds to the scope of the quan-tifier and attaches where the quantifier takes scope.The bottom part corresponds to the bound variableof the quantifier.
By multiply adjoining the scopeparts of the semantic trees of the quantifiers at thesame location in the likes tree, we generate bothavailable scope readings of the sentence.2 Corre-spondingly on the syntax side, an NP tree providesthe content of the noun phrase with a vestigial S treeavailable as well.
Prior to the analyses given in thispaper, the use of two trees in the quantifier syntaxwas an arbitrary stipulation used to make the seman-tic analysis possible.
The pairing of the upper tree2Nesson and Shieber (2006) provide a more in-depth expla-nation of the multiple-adjunction-driven approach to scope neu-trality in STAG.in the syntax with the scope tree in the semanticsexplicitly demonstrates their relationship and leadsnaturally to the exploration of non-degenerate uppertrees in the syntax that we explore in this paper.In order to use these multi-component quantifiers,we change the links in the elementary trees for verbsto allow a single link to indicate two positions inthe syntax and semantics where a tree pair can ad-join, as shown in Figure 3(a).
We add four-waylinks and drop the two-way links used by the un-quantified noun phrases in the first example.
Thischoice forces all noun phrase tree pairs to be multi-component in the syntax and semantics.
Essentially,all noun phrases are ?lifted?
a` la Montague.
We ex-plore the consequences of this in Section 6.We turn now to the ramifications of this newsyntactico-semantic STAG representation, showingits utility for a range of phenomena.4 Wh-questionsThe structure we propose for quantifiers suggests anew possibility for the TAG analysis of wh-words.We propose to simply treat wh-words as regularnoun phrases by making them a multi-componenttree set with an auxiliary tree that adjoins at the rootof the verb tree and contains the lexical content andan initial tree with an empty frontier that substitutesat the argument position.
This syntactic tree set can12S?WHN Pxetwho t ?xSwho!S?WHwho N P!SorwhichN PSWH N ?S?N P!S?S!N PwhichN PWH N ?twhich x t t ?exex?
e , t?
?orFigure 4: Elementary tree pairs for who and which.
The left and middle tree sets are the syntactic alternativesused to model wh-movement and in-situ wh-words.
The tree sets on the right provide the semantics.234SNP?
V PNP?Vlikes31 4234SV PNP?Vlikes31 4SW H ?234 SNP?
V PVlikes31 4SW H ?NP!
NP!Figure 5: Traditional elementary trees for the verblikes.
Using a revised, elementary syntax tree set forwh-words like who, only the left tree is necessary.be paired with a multi-component semantic tree setthat has an auxiliary tree containing the scope partand an initial tree that contains the bound variable.Wh-questions with the wh-word in place can be ele-gantly modeled with an alternative syntactic tree setin which the auxiliary tree has no lexical content andthe wh-word is on the frontier of the initial tree thatsubstitutes into the argument position.
The seman-tic tree sets for both syntactic variations is the same.These trees are shown in Figure 4.Besides the incorporation of a semantics, the ba-sic analyses for wh-questions familiar from TAGsyntax are otherwise unchanged because the toppiece of the syntax tree set still ends up at the root ofthe main verb in sentences such as the following:(1) Who likes Mary?who(x, likes(mary,x))(2) Which person does John like?3which(x, person(x), likes(x, john))3The presence of do-support in wh-questions can be handledindependently using a feature on the NP node into which thebottom part of the wh-word tree pair substitutes that governswhether and where a do tree adjoins.
(3) Which person does Bill think John likes?which(x, person(x), thinks(bill, likes(x, john)))(4) Who does each person like?who(x,each(y, person(y), likes(x,y)))each(y, person(y),who(x, likes(x,y)))Note that in Sentence 3 thinks is not constrainedto appear to the right of who in the syntax, becausethinks and who both adjoin at the same location inthe syntax.
However, we can use a feature to forceembedding verbs to adjoin lower than wh-words.The same situation exists in Sentence 4, though onlyin the semantics; the order of words in the syntaxis well-defined but the multiple adjunction of thescope of who and the scope of each underspecifiesthe scope ordering between them.
Both scope or-derings are indeed arguably valid.
Again, the pref-erences for certain orderings can be regulated us-ing a feature.
These issues highlight the many openquestions about how to combine quantification andwh-terms, but also provides a first step towards theiranalysis within a concise STAG construction.Our approach has several distinct advantages.First, it allows wh-words to be analyzed in a way thatis uniform with the analysis of other noun phrasesand allows us to simplify the lexical entries forverbs.
In the traditional TAG analysis, wh-wordssubstitute into specialized lexical trees for verbs thatadd an additional frontier node for the wh-word andabstract over one of the arguments of the verb byadding an empty terminal node at the frontier.
Ourrevision to the elementary trees for wh-words allowsus to remove several tree pairs from the elementarytree sets for verbs such as like.
Instead of requir-ing an elementary tree pair for declarative sentencesand an additional elementary tree for each argument13S??
S?W HwhomN PJ ohn?Sd oe sV PVlik eS?DetaN ?N P ?NP Ppictureo f???????abcde??????????????abcde??????????????????????abcdef??????????????????????????????abcdef??????????????
?W H ?
SN PN PN P[ ]N P!Figure 6: Kallmeyer and Scheffler?s syntactic analy-sis for Sentence 6.that can be replaced by a fronted wh-word to form aquestion (as shown in Figure 5), we can use just thesingle declarative sentence elementary tree.Second, it provides a simple and elegant char-acterization of the syntax and semantics of wh-movement and the relationship between fronted andin-place wh-words.
Using the alternative syntax treeset given in Figure 4 we model in-place use of wh-words as in Sentence 5 while still maintaining theusual semantic analysis:(5) John likes who?who(x, likes(x, john))5 Stranded PrepositionsSentence 6 presents a particularly challenging casefor TAG semantics.
The problem arises because whomust contribute its bound variable, x, to the nounphrase ?a picture of x?.
However, in the standardsyntactic analysis who substitutes into the likes tree,and in any reasonable semantic analysis, who takesscope at the root of the likes tree.
(6) Who does John like a picture of?who(x,a(y, and(picture(y),of (x,y)),likes( john,y)))Kallmeyer and Scheffler (2004) propose a syntac-tic analysis in which ?a picture of?
adjoins into thesyntactic tree for ?likes?.
The syntax for this anal-ysis is shown for comparison in Figure 6.
As-sociated with the syntactic analysis is a semanticanalysis, which differs from ours in that all of thesemantic computation is accomplished by use ofa flexible set of features that are associated withnodes in the syntactic trees.
This analysis main-tains Frank?s Constraint on Elementary Tree Min-imality (CETM) if one analyzes the prepositionalphrase as a complement of picture but it does so atthe expense of a straightforward compositional se-mantics.4 The source of the problem is that whocontributes its bound variable to likes to form anintermediate semantics who(x, likes( john,x)), thena picture of combines non-compositionally to formthe complete semantics given in Sentence 6.Kroch (1989) describes the intuition eschewingthis analysis: ?The problem is that under such aderivation, the preposed wh-phrase changes its the-matic role with each adjunction and the interpreta-tion of the derived tree is not a simple function of theinterpretations of its component elementary trees.
?When we consider the semantics of the two sen-tences, the anomaly of this analysis becomes appar-ent.
In the first sentence the entity liked by John isreferred to by the variable contributed by who.
In thesecond sentence John likes an entirely different en-tity: the entity referred to by the variable contributedby a. Kallmeyer and Scheffler obtain the correct se-mantics by making use of non-local TAG operationsto have the scope part of a adjoin into likes to cap-ture the semantics of the likes proposition and em-ploying a feature-based mechanism for swapping thevariables as necessary.Our revision to the syntax of wh-words providesan alternative way of maintaining the CETM that of-fers a much simpler semantic analysis.
The detailsof the analysis are given in Figure 7.
We adjoin whointo the preposition of at link 1 where it contributesboth variable and scope.
The tree pair for of at-taches to a at link 1 , thus allowing the scope partsof the quantifier a and the wh-word who to end uptaking scope over the main verb as in the analysis ofprepositional phrases given by Nesson and Shieber(2006).
It also places all the bound variables in thecorrect propositions without use of non-local opera-tions or additional manipulation.
A diagram of thederived syntax and semantics is given in Figure 8.4In addition to suggesting a non-compositional seman-tics, their syntactic analysis makes use of non-local multi-component TAG in order to achieve the necessary semantic rela-tionships.
Although their use of non-local TAG may be benignin terms of complexity, our analysis is set-local.
Our proposaltherefore simplifies the syntactic analysis while also bringing itin line with a straightforward, compositional semantics.14NP?V PVlikeste ?
?e, t?
?e, ?e, t??NP?
e ?likesS3431 4 1 2 3 4342likesjohn apicture ofw h o11243DetayN PN ?tt ?a t?e, t??
eyy1S ?
11122N PP PPoft ?
?e, t?
?e, t?
?a n de ?of?e, t?S ?NP?NP?1 111S ?W Hw h o NP!xetw h o t ?xSjohn johnN P et ?S ?N ?e, t?picture pictureFigure 7: The elementary tree pairs and derivation tree for the sentence ?Who does John like a picture of?
?.NP?V PVlikesNP?S3431 42DetaNPN ?S ?
112NPP PPo fS ?NP?NP?11johnNPS ?NpictureS ?W Hw h oNP!Ste ?
?e, t?
?e, ?e, t?
?e ?likes1 2 3 434ytt ?a t?e, t?
?eyy11 2t ?
?e, t?
?e, t?
?a n de ?o f?e, t?11xetw h o t ?xjohnet ?
?e, t?pictureFigure 8: The derived syntax and semantics for Sentence 6.6 TopicalizationThe insight that allows us to model in-place wh-words extends to an elegant analysis of topicaliza-tion as well.
The vestigial S?
tree that we addedto the tree set for the syntax of every noun phraseneed not always be contentless.
Just as we movedthe wh-word who from the top tree in its set to thebottom tree to model in-situ wh-words, we can movethe lexical content of noun phrases to the top tree intheir sets to model topicalization.
For instance, thealternative tree pair for Mary shown in Figure 9 pro-vides for an analysis of the sentence(7) Mary, John likes.likes(mary,john)The analysis interacts properly with that for prepo-sition stranding, so that the sentenceS?NP et ?S!NPMaryMaryS?NPS!ytt ?a t?e, t??
eyy11 2D etaNPN ?12Figure 9: Alternative tree pairs for Mary and a thatmodel topicalization.
(8) A picture of Mary, John likes.a(x, and(picture(x), of(mary,x)), likes(x,john))follows from the tree pair for a in the same figure.7 ConclusionIn this paper we have proposed a uniform changeto the structure of noun phrases in the STAGsyntactico-semantic grammar.
The formal tools weavail ourselves of comprise synchronous TAG with15set-local multicomponent adjunction and multipleadjunction.
Nothing more is required.All noun phrases now have a uniform multi-component structure in both the syntax and thesemantics.
In the semantics the top part correspondsto the scope-giving piece provided by the nounphrase and the bottom part to the bound variableor simple noun-phrase meaning.
In the syntax, thetop part corresponds to the lexical material thatshould appear moved to the edge of the sentence orclause; the bottom part corresponds to the lexicalmaterial that will fill an argument position of somehead.
By moving lexical material among the piecesof the multi-component set in the syntax, we cansimply model phenomena like in-place wh-wordsand topicalization.Making the top parts of wh-word tree sets intoauxiliary trees allows them to adjoin not just to themain verb but also to heads of modifying clauses,such as prepositional phrases.
This allows us tohandle more complex sentences like Sentence 6without violating either the CETM or going beyondsimple compositional semantics.
In order to allowthe scope-giving part of the wh-word to percolateup to the root of the semantics of the main verb,each tree set that it adjoins into on its way mustalso have a scope part in the semantics to whichit can adjoin.
Scope carriers, such as prepositions,are therefore also multi-component in the semanticswith a top node to which scope-givers can adjoin.One nice property of this analysis is that it predictsthe observed facts about disallowed scope orderingsin sentences that have three quantifiers, one ofwhich is in a modifying clause.
The scope part ofthe quantifier of the modified clause and the scopepart of the quantifier of the modifying clause forman indivisible set as the derivation proceeds so thatwhen they adjoin multiply with the scope part of theunmodified clause, that quantifier cannot intervenebetween them.Our synchronous grammar treatment of thesyntax-semantic relation with TAG is at least assimple and arguably more accurate than previousTAG proposals, offering treatments of such phe-nomena as in-situ wh-words, stranded prepositions,and topicalization.ReferencesChung-Hye Han.
2006a.
Pied-piping in relative clauses:Syntax and compositional semantics based on syn-chronous tree adjoining grammar.
In Proceedingsof the 8th International Workshop on Tree AdjoiningGrammars and Related Formalisms (TAG+ 8), pages41?48, Sydney, Australia.Chung-Hye Han.
2006b.
A tree adjoining grammar anal-ysis of the syntax and semantics of it-clefts.
In Pro-ceedings of the 8th International Workshop on TreeAdjoining Grammars and Related Formalisms (TAG+8), pages 33?40, Sydney, Australia.Aravind K. Joshi and Yves Schabes.
1997.
Tree-adjoining grammars.
In G. Rozenberg and A. Salo-maa, editors, Handbook of Formal Languages, pages69?124.
Springer.Laura Kallmeyer and Maribel Romero.
2004.
LTAG se-mantics with semantic unification.
In Proceedings ofTAG+7, pages 155?162, Vancouver, May.Laura Kallmeyer and Tatjana Scheffler.
2004.
LTAGanalysis for pied-piping and stranding of wh-phrases.In Proceedings of TAG+7, pages 32?39, Vancouver,May.Anthony Kroch.
1989.
Asymmetries in long distanceextraction in a tree adjoining grammar.
In Mark Baltinand Anthony Kroch, editors, Alternative Conceptionsof Phrase Structure.
University of Chicago Press.Rebecca Nesson and Stuart M. Shieber.
2006.
Sim-pler TAG semantics through synchronization.
In Pro-ceedings of the 11th Conference on Formal Grammar,Malaga, Spain, 29?30 July.Yves Schabes and Stuart M. Shieber.
1993.
An alterna-tive conception of tree-adjoining derivation.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 20(1):91?124.Stuart M. Shieber and Yves Schabes.
1990.
Synchronoustree-adjoining grammars.
In Proceedings of the 13thInternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, volume 3, pages 253?258, Helsinki.Stuart M. Shieber.
1994.
Restricting the weak-generativecapacity of synchronous tree-adjoining grammars.Computational Intelligence, 10(4):371?385, Novem-ber.Sean Williford.
1993.
Application of synchronous tree-adjoining grammar to quantifier scoping phenomena inEnglish.
Undergraduate Thesis, Harvard College.16
