Proceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 17?24,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsPrepLex: a lexicon of French prepositions for parsingKare?n FortCalligramme and TALARIS projectsLORIA/INRIA Lorraine / Nancy, FranceKaren.Fort@loria.frBruno GuillaumeCalligramme projectLORIA/INRIA Lorraine / Nancy, FranceBruno.Guillaume@loria.frAbstractPrepLex is a lexicon of French prepositionswhich provides all the syntactic informationneeded for parsing.
It was built by compar-ing and merging several authoritative lexicalsources.
This lexicon also includes infor-mation about the prepositions or classes ofprepositions that appear in French verb sub-categorization frames.
This resource hasbeen developed as a first step in making cur-rent French preposition lexicons availablefor effective natural language processing.1 IntroductionWhen defining lexical entry classes according to cat-egories, an obvious distinction appears between twotypes of classes.
First, the closed classes, compris-ing elements which can be exhaustively enumerated,for example pronouns or determiners.
Second, openclasses for which it is impossible to list all the el-ements (for example, they may vary according tothe domain).
The four main open classes are nouns,verbs, adjectives and adverbs.
The lexicon construc-tion methodology has to be adapted according to thetype of class that is being dealt with.The status of the class of prepositions is difficultto determine.
A priori, prepositions may seem to bea closed class, with elements which can be enumer-ated.
In practice, however, a comparison of the dif-ferent available resources shows that it is not an easytask to exhaustively list prepositions.
Besides, theyrepresent more than 14% of French lemma tokens.11see for example, on a newspaper corpus:A complete lexicon for parsing applicationsshould contain subcategorization information forpredicative words (Briscoe and Carroll, 1993; Car-roll and Fang, 2004).
This subcategorization infor-mation often refers to prepositions in the descriptionof their arguments.
Arguments are commonly usedwith a particular preposition (for example comptersur [count on]) or a set of semantically linked prepo-sitions (such as aller [go] LOC, where LOC can beany locative preposition).For deep parsing, we need to distinguish betweenindirect complements, required by the verb, andadjuncts which do not appear in the verb valence.The following two examples (1a) and (1b) havethe same surface structure, in which the twopreposition uses for avec can only be distinguishedsemantically: in the first case, it introduces anoblique complement, whereas in the second case,it introduces an adjunct.
This issue can be solvedusing finer-grained semantic information.1a.
Jean se bat avec Paul[Jean fights against Paul]1b.
Jean se bat avec courage[Jean fights with courage]This distinction leads us to allow two differentpreposition uses and therefore causes lexical ambi-guity.
In order to limit this ambiguity, it is importantfor a lexicon to identify the prepositions which canhave both functions (we will call these ?argument?prepositions).https://www.kuleuven.be/ilt/blf/rechbaselex kul.php\#freq (Selva et al, 2002)17Our work aims at providing the community witha lexicon that can be directly used by a parser.
Wefocused on syntactic aspects and extended the workto some semantic elements, like semantically linkedsets of prepositions (as LOC).
The generated lexiconis freely available and is expected to be integratedinto larger resources for French, whether existing orunder development.Section 2 describes the sources and the compar-ative methodology we used.
Section 3 details theresults of the comparison.
Section 4 explains howthe lexicon was created from the above-mentionedresults.
Finally, Section 5 shows an example of useof the lexicon in a parsing application.2 MethodologyIn order to use prepositions for parsing, we needa large list, containing both garden-variety preposi-tions and prepositions that appear in verb subcatego-rization frames.2.1 Using syntactic lexiconsObviously, some lexicons already exist which pro-vide interesting lists of prepositions.
This is thecase of Lefff (Sagot et al, 2006), which containsa long list of prepositions.
However, the syntacticpart of the lexicon is still under development andit provides only few prepositions in verb subcate-gorization frames.
Besides, some prepositions inLefff are obsolete or rare.
The French-UNL dic-tionary (Se?rasset and Boitet, 2000) also containsprepositions, but its coverage is quite limited andthe quality of its entries is not homogeneous.
Othersources present prepositions in verb subcategoriza-tion frames, but the lists are not quite consistent.We thus collected, as a first step, prepositionsfrom a certain number of resources, lexicons anddictionaries for the garden-variety list, and syntacticlexicons for the argument prepositions list.
Two re-sources belong to both categories, Lefff and French-UNL dictionary:?
Lefff (Lexique des Formes Fle?chies duFranc?ais/French inflected form lexicon (Sagotet al, 2006)) is a large coverage (more than110,000 lemmas) French morphological andsyntactic lexicon (see table 1 for an example ofa Lefff syntactic entry).In its latest public version, 2.2.1, Lefff con-tains 48 simple prepositions and 164 multiwordprepositions.
It also provides information onverb subcategorization frames, which contain14 argument prepositions.?
UNL (Universal Networking Lan-guage (Se?rasset and Boitet, 2000)), is aFrench to disambiguated English dictionary formachine translation, which contains syntacticinformation in its French part (see table 1 for aUNL example entry).UNL has limited coverage (less than 27,000lemmas), but it provides, in the English part,semantic information that we will consider us-ing in the near future.
UNL contains 48 simpleprepositions, among which 12 appear in verbsubcategorization frames.2.2 Using reference sourcesWe then completed the list of prepositions usingmanually built resources, including lexicons, dictio-naries and grammars:?
The Grevisse (Grevisse, 1997) grammar, in itspaper version, allowed us to check some intu-itions concerning the obsolescence or usage ofsome prepositions.?
The TLFi (Tre?sor de la langue franc?aise in-formatise?
), that we consulted through the CN-RTL2, and that offers a slightly different list ofprepositions.
In particular, it contains the formsvoici and voila`, that are seldom quoted in theother available resources.?
Finally, the PrepNet (Saint-Dizier, 2006)prepositions database was used to check thecompleteness of our list as well as the semanticinformation provided by other sources.2.3 Using verb valence dictionariesWe then looked for a way to enrich the list of prepo-sitions appearing in verb subcategorization framesin Lefff and UNL, using resources that focus moreparticularly on verbs:2see: http://www.cnrtl.fr18Lefff entry for dialoguer avec [to talk to]dialoguer: suj:sn|sinf|scompl,obja:(a`-sn|avec-sn),objde:(de-sn|de-scompl|de-sinf)UNL entry for dialoguer avec [to talk to][dialoguer] {AUX(AVOIR),CAT(CATV),GP1(AVEC),VAL1(GN)} "have_talks";DICOVALENCE entry for dialoguer avec [to talk to]VAL$ dialoguer: P0 PP<avec>VTYPE$ predicator simpleVERB$ DIALOGUER/dialoguerNUM$ 29730EG$ le de?le?gue?
des e?tudiants a dialogue?
avec le directeur de l?e?coleTR$ spreken, zich onderhouden, een gesprek hebben, onderhandelenP0$ qui, je, nous, elle, il, ils, on, celui-ci, ceux-ciPP_PR$ avecPP$ qui, lui_ton, eux, celui-ci, ceux-ci, l?un l?autreLCCOMP$ nous dialoguons, je dialogue avec toiSynLex entry for adapter avec [to adapt to]adapter ?<suj:sn,obj:sn,obl:avec-sn>?Table 1: Description of some entries with the preposition avec [with] in valence dictionaries?
DICOVALENCE, a valence dictionary ofFrench, formerly known as PROTON (van denEynde and Mertens, 2002), which has beenbased on the pronominal approach.
In version1.1, this dictionary details the subcategoriza-tion frames of more than 3,700 verbs (table 1gives an example of a DICOVALENCE entry).We extracted the simple and multiword prepo-sitions it contains (i.e.
more than 40), as wellas their associated semantic classes.?
We completed this argument prepositions listwith information gathered from SynLex (Gar-dent et al, 2006), a syntactic lexicon cre-ated from the LADL lexicon-grammar ta-bles (Gross, 1975) (see table 1 for a SynLexentry).Using these sources, we conducted a systematicstudy of each preposition, checking its presencein each source, whether in verb subcategorizationframes or not, as well as its associated semanticclass(es).
We then grouped the prepositions that ap-pear both as lexical entries and in verb subcatego-rization frames.As multiword prepositions show specific charac-teristics (in particular, their number) and raise partic-ular issues (segmentation), we processed them sepa-rately, using the same methodology.3 Source comparison results3.1 Simple prepositionsWe thus listed 85 simple prepositions, among which24 appear in verb subcategorization frames (see ta-ble 2).It is noticeable that the different sources use quitedifferent representations of syntactic information asshown in table 1.
Lefff offers a condensed visionof verbs, in which valence patterns are grouped intoone single entry, whereas SynLex uses a flatter rep-resentation without disjunction on syntactic cate-gories for argument realization or for optional argu-ments.
To summarize, we could say that DICOVA-LENCE lies somewhere between Lefff and SynLex,since it uses disjunctive representation but has a finerdescription of syntactic information and hence splitsmany entries which are collapsed in Lefff.3.2 Multiword prepositionsWe obtained a list of 222 multiword prepositions,among which 18 appear in verb subcategorizationframes (see table 3).
It is to be noticed that onlyDICOVALENCE and SynLex contain multiwordprepositions in verb subcategorization frames.
Asfor Lefff, it provides an impressive list of multiword19Lexicons Subcategorization framesLefff TLFi Grevisse PrepNet UNL Lefff DVa SynLex UNLa` X X X loc 319 895 (18 loc) 887 (70 loc) 246apre`s X X X loc X 2 12 1aussi Xavec X X X X X 35 193 (1 loc) 611 (1 loc) 49chez X X X loc X 9 (5 loc) 1comme X X 14 11 10 3de X X X deloc X 310 888 1980 282(117 deloc) (69 deloc)depuis X X X deloc X 2 1derrie`re X X X loc X 3devers X X Xdixit Xemmi Xentre X X X loc X 19 (3 loc) 4hormis X X X X Xjusque X X X X 7 (7 loc)le`s X X Xmoyennant X X X X Xpar X X X loc X 3 38 (4 loc) 73 8parmi X X X loc X 7 (3 loc) 7passe?
X Xselon X X X X X 1 1voici X XTable 2: Some simple prepositions in different sourcesaDICOVALENCEprepositions (more than 150) which represents anexcellent basis for our work.4 Lexicon constructionThe first selection criterion we applied to build thelexicon is that a preposition should appear in at leastone source among the above-mentioned ones.
Also,we consider a preposition to be an argument prepo-sition if it appears in at least one verb subcategoriza-tion frame.4.1 Manual filteringWe then filtered the prepositions according to verysimple criteria.
In particular, we identified someprepositions to be removed as they were:?
erroneous, this is the case, for example, ofaussi (adverb rather than preposition), which ispresent in the UNL dictionary as a preposition,?
obsolete or very rare, like emmi (from TLFi),devers (from Lefff, TLFi, Grevisse) or commede (from DICOVALENCE).We also checked the semantic features given inthe sources and removed erroneous ones, like avecas locative in SynLex and DICOVALENCE.4.2 Some remarksSome sources include as prepositions forms that arenot universally considered to be prepositions in lin-guistics.
This is the case, in particular, for:?
comme, which is not present in the three refer-ence sources (Grevisse, TLFi and PrepNet) asit is ambiguous and can also be used as a con-junction,20Lexicons Subcategorization framesLefff TLFi Grevisse PrepNet UNL Lefff DVa SynLex UNLa` cause de X X Xa` la faveur de X Xa` partir de X X deloc 1afin de X X X Xau nord de locau vu de Xaupre`s de X X X loc 27 (1 loc) 35comme de 1conforme?ment a` X Xd?avec X 1 6d?entre Xen faveur de X X X 13face a` X X 2il y a Xjusqu?a` X loc X 10 (2 loc)jusqu?en Xjusqu?ou` Xloin de X X locpar suite de Xpour comble de Xpre`s de X X locquant a` X X Xtout au long de X Xvis-a`-vis de X X X 1Table 3: Some multiword prepositions in different sourcesaDICOVALENCE?
il y a or y compris, which only appear in Lefff,?
d?avec, which only appears in Grevisse andverb subcategorization frames in DICOVA-LENCE and SynLex.We decided to keep those forms in the lexicon forpractical reasons, keeping the parsing application inmind.Moreover, even if its coverage is quite large, thecreated lexicon is obviously not exhaustive.
Inthis respect, some missing entries should be added,namely:?
prepositions from the DAFLES (Selva et al,2002), like, for example, au de?triment de,?
prepositions appearing in reference grammars,like question, in Grammaire me?thodique dufranc?ais (Riegel et al, 1997),?
some locative prepositions (and, throughmetonymy, time prepositions) that are pre-fixed by jusqu?, for example jusqu?aupre`s de.This elided form of jusque should probablybe treated separately, as a preposition modi-fier.
The same goes for de`s, followed by atime preposition (or a locative one, throughmetonymy).However, it is to be noticed that none of thesemissing prepositions appear in verb subcategoriza-tion frames.This filtering process also allowed us to iden-tify some issues, in particular elisions in multiword21forms, like afin de, afin d?, or contractions like facea`, face au or a` partir de, a` partir du, which will beprocessed in the segmentation step.Others, like le`s, which is only used in toponymsin dashed forms (e.g.
Bathele?mont-le`s-Bauzemont),will be processed during named entity segmentation.4.3 ResultsWe obtained a list of 49 simple prepositions, ofwhich 23 appear in verb subcategorization framesin at least one source and are therefore considered tobe argument prepositions (see table 4).We also obtain a list of more than 200 multi-word prepositions, among which 15 appear in verbsubcategorization frames in at least one source andare therefore considered to be argument prepositions(see table 5).For the time being, we limited the semantic in-formation in the lexicon to loc (locative) and deloc(source), but we intend to extend those categories tothose used in DICOVALENCE (time, quantity, man-ner).
We have already added those to the preposi-tions database that is being populated.We also referred to the sources to add the cat-egories of the arguments introduced by argumentprepositions.PrepLex is currently distributed in a text formatsuitable both for hand-editing and for integration ina parser or other natural language processing tools.In the format we propose, syntactic information isdescribed via feature structures.
These feature struc-tures are always recursive structures of depth 2.
Theexternal level describes the structure in terms of ?ar-guments?
whereas the internal level gives a finersyntactic description of either the head or of eachargument.
This format aims at being modular and atdefining some ?classes?
that share redundant infor-mation.
In the case of prepositions, the skeleton ofthe feature structure used by all entries is:Prep : [head [cat=prep, prep=#, funct=#]comp [cat=#, cpl=@]]When instantiated for a particular preposition, 3feature values are to be provided (written with ?#?in the above description) and the last parametrizedfeature (written with @) is optional.
When they arein the head sub-structure, features are referred to bytheir names whereas, in other cases, a prefix notationis used.a` [prep=a|LOC; funct=aobj|loc|adj;comp.cat=np|sinf; comp.cpl=void|ceque]apre`s [prep=apres|LOC; funct=obl|loc|adj;comp.cat=np]avec [prep=avec; funct=obl|adj;comp.cat=np]a`_travers [prep=a_travers; funct=obl|adj;comp.cat=np]Technically, the only difficult part is to decidehow to represent semantic classes of prepositionslike LOC.
Here, we chose to define the whole setof argument prepositions as well as all the semanticclasses (noted in uppercase) as possible atomic val-ues for the prep feature.
We then used the disjunc-tion a|LOC to indicate that the preposition a` can beused, either as a specific preposition or as a locativepreposition.Additionally, we decided to add to the lexicon in-formation about the sources in which the prepositionappears, in order to allow filtering for some specificapplications.
In the case of argument prepositions,we also added information about the preposition?sfrequency in the source, as well as a relevant exam-ple.We also decided to add corpus-based frequenciesto the lexicon.
Thus, for each preposition, we pro-vide its frequency per 1000 words, either as found inthe DAFLES (Selva et al, 2002), from a newspapercorpus composed of Le Monde and Le Soir (1998),or as extracted directly from Le Monde (1998) witha simple grep command, without tagging.5 Using the lexicon in a NLP systemWe briefly expose some parsing problems related toprepositions.5.1 Segmentation issuesThe first issue that appears when integrating preposi-tions in a parsing system is that of segmentation.
Inparticular, contractions have to be processed specif-ically so that au is identified as the equivalent ofa` le.
The same goes for de, which can appear insome multiword prepositions and can be elided asd?.
However, these phenomena are not specific toprepositions.
They can be addressed either in thelexicon (for example Lefff explicitly contains both22Lexicons Subcategorization framesLefff TLFi Grevisse PrepNet UNL PrepLex Lefff DV SynLex UNL PrepLex44 69 55 36 46 49 14 24 18 11 23Table 4: Total number of simple prepositions by sourceLexicons Subcategorization framesLefff TLFi Grevisse PrepNet UNL PrepLex Lefff DV SynLex UNL PrepLex166 11 77 89 2 206 0 16 4 0 15Table 5: Total number of multiword prepositions by sourceau cours de and au cours d?
), or during the segmen-tation step.We decided on the second solution as it improveslexicon maintainability.An issue that is more directly linked to multiwordprepositions is that of segmentation ambiguities.
Forexample, in the following two sentences (2a) and(2b) the group of words au cours de is a multiwordpreposition in the first case, but it has to be decom-posed in the second one.
Other multiword preposi-tions can never be decomposed, for example y com-pris.This highlights the fact that segmentation is am-biguous and that it is necessary to be able to keepthe segmentation ambiguity through the whole pars-ing process.2a.
Il a beaucoup travaille?
au cours de cette anne?e[He worked hard during the year]2b.
Il a beaucoup travaille?
au cours de M. Durand[He worked hard in Mr Durand?s course]5.2 Adjunct prepositions vs argumentprepositionsIn deep parsing we have to distinguish betweenprepositions introducing a verb argument and prepo-sitions introducing adjuncts.
However, we haveseen that this distinction often relies on semanticsand that parsing should leave the two possibilitiesopen.
Precise information about argument preposi-tions and verb subcategorizations eliminates manyof these ambiguities.6 ConclusionWe created a list of French prepositions for parsingapplications by comparing various lexicons and dic-tionaries.
We hence focused on syntactic aspects.Manual filtering was used to eliminate obsolete orrare prepositions, as well as a number of errors.The resulting lexicon contains more than 250 Frenchprepositions, among which 49 are simple preposi-tions.In syntactic lexicons, subcategorization framesdescribe prepositions introducing arguments.
Prepo-sitions appearing in verbal valence frames are called?argument prepositions?.
We identified 40 of them.The produced lexicon is freely available.
3 It willbe developed further.
In particular, some other in-formation sources will be incorporated.
This is thecase for the verbs constructions fields from the TFLiwhich contain prepositions, that can be consideredas argument prepositions.
We plan to use this infor-mation to improve the lexicon.We are also populating a database with this lexicalinformation.
3 This will help us ensure a better main-tenance of the lexicon and will allow enrichment ofthe entries, in particular with examples and associ-ated verbs.
We are adding corpus-based frequenciesto this database.A more ambitious task would be to enrich the lex-icon with fine-grained semantic information (moredetailed than the general classes loc, deloc, .
.
.
).Many interesting linguistic studies have been con-ducted on prepositions, including cross-lingual ap-proaches.
However, most of them are limited to de-tailing the semantics of a small number of preposi-tions; with the exceptions of PrepNet (Saint-Dizier,2006) for French prepositions and TPP (Litkowskiand Hargraves, 2005) (The Preposition Project) forEnglish.
It is now necessary to transform those re-sources in order to make them directly usable by nat-ural language processing systems.3http://loriatal.loria.fr/Resources.html23ReferencesTed Briscoe and John A. Carroll.
1993.
Generalizedprobabilistic LR parsing of natural language (corpora)with unification-based grammars.
Computational Lin-guistics, 19(1):25?59.John A. Carroll and Alex C. Fang.
2004.
The automaticacquisition of verb subcategorisations and their impacton the performance of an HPSG parser.
In Proceed-ings of the 1st International Joint Conference on Nat-ural Language Processing (IJCNLP), pages 107?114,Sanya City, China.Claire Gardent, Bruno Guillaume, Guy Perrier, and In-grid Falk.
2006.
Extraction d?information de sous-cate?gorisation a` partir des tables du LADL.
In Pro-ceedings of TALN 06, pages 139?148, Leuven.Maurice Grevisse.
1997.
Le Bon Usage ?
Gram-maire franc?aise, e?dition refondue par Andre?
Goosse.DeBoeck-Duculot, Paris ?
Leuven, 13th edition.Maurice Gross.
1975.
Me?thodes en syntaxe.
Hermann.Ken Litkowski and Orin Hargraves.
2005.
The preposi-tion project.
In Proc.
of the ACL Workshop on Prepo-sitions.Martin Riegel, Jean-Christophe Pellat, and Rene?
Rioul.1997.
Grammaire me?thodique du franc?ais.
PUF, 3rdedition.Benoit Sagot, Lionel Cle?ment, ?Eric Villemonte de laClergerie, and Pierre Boullier.
2006.
The Lefff 2syntactic lexicon for French: architecture, acquisition,use.
In Proc.
of LREC 06, Genoa, Italy.Patrick Saint-Dizier.
2006.
PrepNet: a Multilingual Lex-ical Description of Prepositions.
In Proc.
of LREC 06,Genoa, Italy, pages 877?885.
European Language Re-sources Association (ELRA).Thierry Selva, Serge Verlinde, and Jean Binon.
2002.Le DAFLES, un nouveau dictionnaire pour apprenantsdu franc?ais.
In Proc.
of EURALEX?2002 (EuropeanAssociation for Lexicography), Copenhagen.Gilles Se?rasset and Christian Boitet.
2000.
On UNL asthe future ?html of the linguistic content?
and the reuseof existing NLP components in UNL-related applica-tions with the example of a UNL-French deconverter.In Proceedings of COLING 2000, Saarbru?cken.Karel van den Eynde and Piet Mertens, 2002.
La valence:l?approche pronominale et son application au lexiqueverbal, pages 63?104.
Cambridge University Press,13th edition.24
