Proceedings of the Workshop on Embodied Language Processing, pages 59?66,Prague, Czech Republic, June 28, 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsDynamic Movement and Positioning of Embodied Agents in MultipartyConversationsDus?an JanUSC Institute for Creative Technologies13274 Fiji WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292jan@ict.usc.eduDavid R. TraumUSC Institute for Creative Technologies13274 Fiji WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292traum@ict.usc.eduAbstractFor embodied agents to engage in realis-tic multiparty conversation, they must standin appropriate places with respect to otheragents and the environment.
When thesefactors change, for example when an agentjoins a conversation, the agents must dynam-ically move to a new location and/or orien-tation to accommodate.
This paper presentsan algorithm for simulating the movementof agents based on observed human behav-ior using techniques developed for pedes-trian movement in crowd simulations.
Weextend a previous group conversation simu-lation to include an agent motion algorithm.We examine several test cases and show howthe simulation generates results that mirrorreal-life conversation settings.1 IntroductionWhen we look at human conversation in a casual,open setting, such as a party or marketplace, one ofthe first things we notice is a tendency for peopleto cluster into sub-groups involved in different con-versations.
These groupings are not fixed, however,people will often join and leave groups and oftenmove from one group to another.
Groups themselvesmay fragment into subgroups, and smaller groupssometimes merge into one larger group.
Participantsin these groups adapt their positions and orientationsto account for these circumstances, often withoutmissing a beat or otherwise disrupting their conver-sations.In order to create believable social environmentsfor games or training simulations we need agentsthat can perform these same kinds of behaviors ina realistic way.
There are a number of crowd sim-ulations (Sung et al, 2004; Shao and Terzopou-los, 2005; Still, 2000; Helbing and Molna?r, 1995),but most of these place an emphasis on large-scalemovement of agents and do not model the low-levelaspects of conversational interaction in a realisticway ?
movement of agents in multiparty conver-sation is more about positioning and repositioningon a local scale.
There is also a large body of workon embodied conversational agents (Cassell et al,2000), which attempt to model realistic conversa-tional non-verbal behaviors.
Most of this work fo-cuses on aspects such as gaze, facial expressions,and hand and arm gestures, rather than positioningand orientation in a group.
There is some importantwork on authored presentation agents and avatars forhuman participants which take account of positionin the modelling (Vilhjalmsson and Cassell, 1998;Rehm et al, 2005), but none of this work presentsfully explicit algorithms for controlling the position-ing and movement behavior of autonomous agents indynamic conversations.In previous work, it has been shown that incor-rect positioning of animated agents has a negative ef-fect on the believability of dynamic group conversa-tion (Jan and Traum, 2005).
Research from anthro-pologists and social psychologists such as the classicwork on proxemics by Hall (1968) and positioningby Kendon (1990) provide social reasons to explainhow people position themselves in different situa-tions.
It is also important to know that people expect59similar behavior in virtual environments as in reallife as shown by Bailenson et al (2003).
This givesus basic principles on which to base the simulationand provides some qualitative expectations, but isnot suitable to directly convert into algorithms.
Thesocial force model (Helbing and Molna?r, 1995) de-veloped for crowd simulations gives a good frame-work for movement simulation.
While the basicmodel shows how to handle pedestrian motion weapply the model to the problem of movement in con-versation setting.Our implementation of conversational movementand positioning is an extension of prior work ingroup conversation simulation using autonomousagents.
Carletta and Padilha (2002) presented a sim-ulation of the external view of a group conversation,in which the group members take turns speaking andlistening to others.
Previous work on turn-takingis used to form a probabilistic algorithm in whichagents can perform basic behaviors such as speakingand listening, beginning, continuing or concludinga speaking turn, giving positive and negative feed-back, head nods, gestures, posture shifts, and gaze.Behaviors are generated using a stochastic algorithmthat compares randomly generated numbers againstparameters that can take on values between 0 and 1.This work was further extended by (Jan andTraum, 2005), who used new bodies in the UnrealTournament game engine, and added support for dy-namic creation of conversation groups.
This simu-lation allowed dynamic creation, splitting, joining,entry and exit of sub-conversations.
However, thecharacters were located in fixed positions.
As indi-cated in their subject evaluations, this significantlydecreased believability when conversation groupsdid not coincide with positioning of the agents.Adding support for movement of characters is a nat-ural step to counter these less believable situations.We augment this work by adding a movement andpositioning component that allows agents to moni-tor ?forces?
that make it more desirable to move toone place or another, iteratively select new destina-tions and move while remaining engaged in conver-sations.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
Sec-tion 2 describes the main motivations that agentshave for moving from their current position in con-versation.
Section 3 presents the social force model,which specifies a set of forces that pressure an agentto move in one direction or another, and a deci-sion algorithm for deciding which forces to act onin different situations.
Section 4 presents a series oftest cases for the algorithm, demonstrating that themodel behaves as desired for some benchmark prob-lems in this space.
We conclude in section 5 with adescription of future work in this area.2 Reasons for MovementThere are several reasons why someone engaged inconversation would want to shift position.
Some ofthese include:?
one is listening to a speaker who is too far andor not loud enough to hear,?
there is too much noise from other nearbysound sources,?
the background noise is louder than thespeaker,?
one is too close to others to feel comfortable,?
one has an occluded view or is occluding theview of others.Any of these factors (or a combination of several)could motivate a participant to move to a more com-fortable location.
During the simulation the speakerscan change, other noise sources can start and stop,and other agents can move around as well.
Thesefactors can cause a variety of motion throughout thecourse of interactions with others.
In the rest of thissection we describe these factors in more detail.
Inthe next section we will develop a formal model ofreactions to these factors.The first reason we consider for repositioning ofconversation participants is audibility of the speaker.The deciding factor can be either the absolute vol-ume of the speaker, or the relative volume comparedto other ?noise?.
Noise here describes all audio inputthat is not speech by someone in the current conver-sation group.
This includes the speech of agents en-gaged in other conversations as well as non-speechsounds.
When we are comparing the loudness of dif-ferent sources we take into account that intensity ofthe perceived signal decreases with the square of the60distance and also that the loudness of several sourcesis additive.Even when the speaker can be heard over a noisesource, if outside disruptions are loud enough, thegroup might want to move to a more remote areawhere they can interact without interruptions.
Eachof the participants may decide to shift away from anoise source, even without an explicit group deci-sion.
Of course this may not always be possible ifthe area is very crowded.Another reason for movement is proxemics.Hall (1968) writes that individuals generally dividetheir personal space into four distinct zones.
Theintimate zone is used for embracing or whispering,the personal zone is used for conversation amonggood friends, the social zone is used for conversa-tion among acquaintances and the public zone forpublic speaking.
The actual distances the zones spanare different for each culture and its interpretationmay vary based on an individual?s personality.
If thespeaker is outside the participant?s preferred zone,the participant will move toward the speaker.
Simi-larly if someone invades the personal zone of a par-ticipant, the participant will move away.The final reason for movement is specific to mul-tiparty conversations.
When there are several peoplein conversation they will tend to form a circular for-mation.
This gives the sense of inclusion to partic-ipants and gives them a better view of one another(Kendon, 1990).3 Social Force ModelWe present our movement simulation in the contextof a social force model.
Similar to movement incrowds, the movement of people engaged in conver-sation is to a large extent reactionary.
The reactionis usually automatic and determined by person?s ex-perience, rather than planned for.
It is possible to as-sign a vectorial quantity for each person in conversa-tion, that describes the desired movement direction.This quantity can be interpreted as a social force.This force represents the influence of the environ-ment on the behavior of conversation participant.
Itis important to note however that this force does notdirectly cause the body to move, but rather providesa motivation to move.
We illustrate these forceswith figures such as Figure 1, where each circleFigure 1: A sample group positioning.
Each circlerepresents an agent.
A thick border represents thatthe agent is talking, filled or empty shading indicatesconversation group membership.represents an agent, the different shadings representmembers of different conversation groups, thickercircles represent speakers in that group, and arrowsrepresent forces on an agent of interest.We associate a force with each reason for move-ment:~Fspeaker : attractive force toward a speaker~Fnoise : repelling force from outside noise~Fproximity : repelling force from agents that are tooclose~Fcircle : force toward circular formation of all con-versation participants~Fspeaker is a force that is activated when thespeaker is too far from the listener.
This can hap-pen for one of two reasons.
Either the speaker is notloud enough and the listener has to move closer inorder to understand him, or he is outside the desiredzone for communication.
When the agent decidesto join conversation this is the main influence thatguides the agent to his conversation group as shownin Figure 2.
~Fspeaker is computed according to thefollowing equation, where ~rspeaker is location of thespeaker, ~r is location of the agent and k is a scalingfactor (we are currently using k = 1):~Fspeaker = k(~rspeaker ?
~r)~Fnoise is a sum of forces away from each source ofnoise.
Each component force is directed away from61Figure 2: Attractive force toward speaker ~Fspeaker.that particular source and its size is inversely pro-portional to square of the distance.
This means thatonly sources relatively close to the agent will have asignificant influence.
Not all noise is a large enoughmotivation for the agent to act upon.
The force isonly active when the noise level exceeds a thresholdor when its relative value compared to speaker levelin the group exceeds a threshold.
Figure 3 shows anexample of the latter.
The following equation is usedto compute ~Fnoise:~Fnoise = ?
?i~ri ?
~r?~ri ?
~r?3~Fproximity is also a cumulative force.
It is a sumof forces away from each agent that is too close.The force gets stronger the closer the invading agentis.
This takes effect for both agents in the conver-sation group and other agents.
This is the secondforce that is modeling proxemics.
While ~Fspeakeris activated when the agent is farther than the de-sired social zone, ~Fproximity is activated when theagent moves to a closer zone.
Based on how well theagents know each other this can be either when theagent enters the intimate zone or the personal zone.Figure 4 shows an example when two agents get tooclose to each other.
The following equation is usedto compute values for ~Fproximity:~Fproximity = ??
?~ri?~r?<distancezone~ri ?
~r?~ri ?
~r?2~Fcircle is responsible for forming the conversa-tional group into a convex, roughly circular forma-tion.
Each agent has a belief about who is currentlyFigure 3: Repelling force away from other speakers~Fnoise.Figure 4: Repelling force away from agents that aretoo close ~Fproximity .participating in the conversation.
An agent will com-pute the center of mass of all these assumed partic-ipants and the average distance from the center.
Ifan agent?s position deviates too much from the aver-age, the ~Fcircle gets activated either toward or awayfrom center of mass.
Notice that ~Fproximity takescare of spreading out around the circle.
The situa-tion in Figure 5 is an example where an agent de-cides that he has to adapt his positioning.
Noticethat if this agent was not aware of the agent to hisleft, the force would not get triggered.
This can bea cause for many interesting situations when agentshave different beliefs about who is part of the con-versation.~rm =1N?i~ri~Fcircle = ?
(1N?i?~ri ?
~rm?~r ?
~rm?~r ?
~rm??
~r)As described above, each force has some condi-tions that determine whether the force plays an ac-62Figure 5: Agent?s deviation from circular formationexceeds threshold and triggers force ~Fcircle.tive role in motivating movement.
Since the forcesare not actually physically acting on agent?s bodies,it is not unreasonable for agents to suppress a cer-tain force.
All the possible causes for movementare always present, but the agents selectively decidewhich ones they will act upon in a given situation.This is unlike a kinematics calculation with physicalforces where all forces are always active.
Combin-ing all the conditions we can define which forces areactive according to a simple decision procedure.
Wecan view this as priorities the agent has that decidewhich conditions are more important to react to.In our implementation we use the following pri-orities:if speaker is too low ~F = ~Fspeaker + ~Fproximityelse if noise is louder than speaker ~F = ~Fspeaker +~Fnoise + ~Fproximityelse if noise is too loud ~F = ~Fnoise + ~Fproximityelse if too close to someone ~F = ~Fproximityotherwise ~F = ~FcircleUsing the above priorities we have a force definedat each point in space where an agent could be lo-cated.
We do not use this for the continuous com-putation of movement, but rather use it to computedestination points.
In each planning cycle the agentswill consider whether they should move.
To do thisan agent considers his position in the force field andcomputes a destination in the direction of the forcefield.
This process is performed iteratively a con-stant bound times (unless there is no movement inan earlier iteration).
This is described in the follow-ing equations, where ~r is the initial position, ?
is ascaling factor, and ~Pbound is the destination for themovement of this planning cycle:~P0 = ~r~Pi+1 = ~Pi + ?~F (~Pi)~Destination = ~PboundOnce we have computed the destination, we useit as a destination point for the character movementalgorithms in the Unreal Tournament game engine.These will manage character animation and collisionavoidance.Figure 6 shows an example with two separate con-versation groups, where one agent decides to leavethe shaded group and join the unshaded conversa-tion.
The figure shows the iterations he is perform-ing in his planning cycle and the resulting final des-tination.Figure 6: Example of motion computation: Thelower right agent decided to join the unshaded con-versation.
He iteratively applies movement in thedirection of local forces.
In each iteration the effectsof different component forces may take effect.
Thethick line indicates the final destination and path theagent chooses for this planning cycle.4 Test Case AnalysisA full evaluation of the social-force based posi-tioning algorithm presented in the previous sectionwould involve analysis of simulations to see if theyimprove believability over static simulations such assimulation of Jan and Traum (2005), or other algo-rithms.
While this remains future work for the mo-ment, we did evaluate the algorithms against a series63of test cases where we know what behavior to expectfrom known forces.
In this section we present threesuch cases, showing that the algorithm does have thepower to represent several aspects of conversationalpositioning.In the simulations we describe here we did notchange the conversational attributes of agents, butwe did constrain the grouping dynamics.
In a normalsituation the agents would randomly form conver-sation groups, based on their stochastic decisions.Here we wanted to examine particular scenarios andhow the movement algorithm would react to specificchanges in conversation group structure.
For thisreason we disabled conversational grouping deci-sions in the algorithm and triggered the group struc-ture changes manually from the user interface.The only variable input to the movement algo-rithms for different agents is the preferences forproxemics.
Each agent has defined values for allzones, but we set al agents to use social zonefor communicating.
The other parameters such asthresholds for hearing a speaker and noise and cir-cular formations were fixed for these experiments.4.1 Joining conversationIn this test case we have 4 agents.
In the initialcondition three agents are engaged in conversationwhile the fourth one is away from the scene.
We letthe simulation run and at some point we give a com-mand to the fourth agent to join the group of three.At first the agent will move toward the group untilhe is in a comfortable range as shown in Figure 7.At the point in which the fourth agent decides tojoin the other three, he is the only one who knowshe wants to join the conversation.
The other agentsknow of the presence of the fourth agent, but theyhave no idea that he would like to join them.
Thefourth agent is listening for a while and when hegives a feedback signal the other agents interpret thatas a signal that he wants to join the conversation.
Asa result the agents reevaluate their positioning andone agent decides it would be appropriate to move astep back to give more space to the new agent.
Givenmore space the new agent is able to move in circularformation with the rest of the group without intrud-ing on the personal zones of other agents.
The stablepoint of simulation is shown in Figure 8.Figure 7: The agent on the left is approaching aconversation.
Arrows indicate where the agents willmove from now until the simulation stabilizes.Figure 8: Stable point after the fourth agent joins theconversation.4.2 Conversation splitting into two separateconversationsIn this test case, we have 6 agents.
After initialplacement of the agents we issue a command for allthe agents to form one conversation group.
As a re-sult they form a circular formation as can be seen inFigure 9.We let the agents talk for a while and then give acommand to the two agents on the right side of thegroup to start a side conversation.
After this a com-plex sequence of events takes place.
Initially the re-maining agents still think that those two agents arepart of their conversation group.
They have to dis-ambiguate the speech of those two agents and decidewhether this is just an interruption or a split in the64Figure 9: Agents form in a circle to engage in a sin-gle conversation.conversation.
After a while they realize that thoseagents are having a separate conversation.Deciding that the agents on the right have left theconversation leads to a change in the force field.
Theagents that were closest to the split are bothered bythe noise and start adjusting by moving away.
Bydoing this they change the shape of formation whichcauses the farther agents to also adapt back into cir-cular formation.
At the same time the agents whosplit also move away from the others until they getto a point where all are satisfied.
The point wherethe simulation stabilized is shown in Figure 10.Figure 10: After two agents leave the conversationthe agents adapt to it by repositioning.4.3 Effect of proxemicsIn this test case, we examine the effects when thesocial zones of the agents are not compatible.
Thisfrequently happens when we have people from dif-ferent cultures with a large difference in distancesfor social zones.
An example would be North Amer-icans compared to Arabs.
Americans prefer a muchgreater inter-personal distance than Arabs.
Empiri-cal data shows that in many such situations there isa sort of dance with one agent moving in while an-other moves away (Scheflen, 1975).Figure 11: Incompatible social zones.Figure 11 shows an example of agents with in-compatible social zones.
The markings on theground indicate the minimum and maximum accept-able distance for social zone for each agent.
We cansee that the agent on the left has a much smallercomfortable distance than the one on the right.
Inthe current position the left agent feels that the otherone is too far, while the right agent thinks everythingis fine.
This causes the left agent to make a step for-ward.
Consequently by doing so he steps into per-sonal zone of the right agent.
Now the left agent issatisfied with the situation but the right agent feelsuncomfortable and decides to take a step back tokeep the other agent out of his personal zone.
Ifnothing else intervenes, this process can continue,as the agent on the left ?chases?
the one on the rightout of the marketplace.5 ConclusionsIn the previous section, we have shown examples ofhow the movement algorithm can mirror many ef-65fects we see in real conversations.
The exampleshowever were very constrained and could not showall the possible combinations that could result fromrandom choices the agents can make.
Given the factthat each agent maintains his own belief about whois currently in their conversation we can see manyinteresting effects when those beliefs become un-synchronized.As seen in the third test case, we can get somevery interesting results when we simulate agents ofdifferent cultures.
We think that this simulation ap-proach can be fruitful for modeling cultural differ-ences in conversational behavior, and could be usedfor inter-cultural and cross-cultural awareness andtraining.
We are currently exploring whether we canmodel different cultural norms for conversationalbehaviors in ways such that the resulting agent inter-action can be recognized as appropriate to one cul-ture or another.There are still several improvements possible forthe conversation simulation.
On the presentationside we are planning to make some improvements tothe bodies and number and types of conversationalgestures they can display.
We also plan to improvethe algorithm so that it will be able to generate dif-ferent conversation styles.
Currently all conversa-tions take the same form where all the agents havethe same goals, their only goal is to engage in con-versation with other agents.
We plan to introduce thenotion of tasks so that we can better simulate differ-ent kinds of activities such as asking for directions,a political debate, or casual conversation.AcknowledgmentsThe project described here has been sponsoredby the U.S. Army Research, Development, and En-gineering Command (RDECOM).
Statements andopinions expressed do not necessarily reflect the po-sition or the policy of the United States Government,and no official endorsement should be inferred.ReferencesJeremy N. Bailenson, Jim Blascovich, Andrew C. Beall,and Jack M. Loomis.
2003.
Interpersonal distancein immersive virtual environments.
Personality andSocial Psychology Bulletin, 29:819?833.Justine Cassell, Joseph Sullivan, Scott Prevost, and Eliz-abeth Churchill, editors.
2000.
Embodied Conversa-tional Agents.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Edward T. Hall.
1968.
Proxemics.
Current Anthropol-ogy, 9(2/3):83?108, apr.Dirk Helbing and Pe?ter Molna?r.
1995.
Social forcemodel for pedestrian dynamics.
Phys.
Rev.
E,51(5):4282?4286, May.Dusan Jan and David R. Traum.
2005.
Dialog simulationfor background characters.
Lecture Notes in ComputerScience, pages 65?74.Adam Kendon, 1990.
Spatial Organization in SocialEncounters: the F-formation System, pages 209?237.Cambridge University Press.E.
Padilha and J. Carletta.
2002.
A simulation of smallgroup discussion.
Proceedings of EDILOG 2002:Sixth Workshop on the Semantics and Pragmatics ofDialogue, pages 117?124.Matthias Rehm, Elisabeth Andre, and Michael Nischt.2005.
Let?s come together - social navigation behav-iors of virtual and real humans.
In Mark Mayburyet al, editor, INTETAIN 2005, LNAI, pages 122?131.Springer.Albert E. Scheflen.
1975.
Micro-territories in human in-teraction.
In Adam Kendon, Richard M. Harris, andMary Ritchie Key, editors, World Anthropology: Or-ganization of Behavior in Face-to-Face Interaction,pages 159?173.
Mouton, Paris.Wei Shao and Demetri Terzopoulos.
2005.
Autonomouspedestrians.
In SCA ?05: Proceedings of the 2005ACM SIGGRAPH/Eurographics symposium on Com-puter animation, pages 19?28, New York, NY, USA.ACM Press.G.
Keith Still.
2000.
Crowd Dynamics.
Ph.D. thesis,Warwick University.Mankyu Sung, Michael Gleicher, and Stephen Chenney.2004.
Scalable behaviors for crowd simulation.
Com-puter Graphics Forum, 23(3):519?528.Hannes Hogni Vilhjalmsson and Justine Cassell.
1998.Bodychat: autonomous communicative behaviors inavatars.
In AGENTS ?98: Proceedings of the secondinternational conference on Autonomous agents, pages269?276, New York, NY, USA.
ACM Press.66
