Proceedings of the Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition, pages 65?72,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007 c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsRethinking the syntactic burst in young childrenChristophe ParisseINSERM-ModycoParis X NanterrCNR@vjfes.
The procedure istested using the large Manchester corpus int database.
The resultsconstraints on the grammar of the humanlanguages and the human mind (Pinker, 1984;Wexler, 1982).
This report uses an iterativeprocedure to demonstrate that what appears to benear magical could result mostly from mechanismsthat do not require the existence of innateprinciples of grammar, as they are based onchildren?s inherent capacities for perception,7;Saffran, Johnson, Aslin, & Newport, 1999).
Themmarpaci-tietion (words produced in part 1), along with otherwords nev ever producedat part 1), a that children useto spe  from chil-dren?s input; this ated by the children?sknowledge of isolated words.
These multi-wordutteran od by chil-e UniversityS.cnrs.frshowed that young children grammaticalcapabilities (before age three) could be theresults of simple mechanisms and thatcomplex linguistic mastery does not needto be available so early in the course of lan-guage development.1 IntroductionBetween the ages of two and three, most childrengo through a syntactic burst.
In other words, theyprogress from uttering one word at a time toconstructing utterances with a mean length of morethan three words, and frequently longer, and theydo this without any negative evidence and withlimited input data (Ritchie & Bhatia, 1999).
Thisrepresents quite a mystery, which is oftenexplained by postulating the existence of innatememory and association (Jusczyk & Hohne, 199parisseAbstractA testing procedure is proposed to re-evaluate the syntactic burst in children overage two.
The experimentation is based onthe children?s capacities in perception,memory, association and cognition, anddoes not presuppose any specific innategrammatical capacitihe CHILDESacquisition of complex ?across the board?
gradoes not appear to be necessary to explainchildren?s behavior before age three or more.
Atthat age, much more complex and structured inputdata will be available to children, therebyincreasing their learning capacities and reducingthe limitations on knowledge they may acquire.2 A testing procedure in three partsThe testing procedure for grammaticaldevelopment that will be implemented in thisreport is made of three parts.The goal of the first and the second part is to de-termine the basic elements that children use to con-struct language.
Two assumptions are made aboutyoung children?s perceptive and mnemonic cas: anything they have once produced, they canproduce again; and, when their language exactlyreproduces an adult?s, this can be explained as asimple copy of their input.Part 1: All single-word utterances produced bychildren are meaningful to them; they are directlyderived from adults?
output.
They are the basicelements that children use to build language.Part 2: Children?s multi-word utterances con-taining only one word already produced in isola-er produced in isolation (nre also basic elementsak.
They are also directly derivedis facilitces are manipulated and understo65dren as single blocks, just as isolated words are.Thaccount for the children?s multiword utter-anevents them from producing aberrantutf unfinishedute been carried out in order to answer thisquestion.3token (SD = 9,653) and 1,913 in type (SD=ntco,L-ed from the adult?s output (list L-adultabdo not include ut-teey may also be called frozen forms.The goal of the third part is to check whether thebasic elements identified in part 1 and 2 are suffi-cient toces.Part 3: Children link utterances produced atparts 1 and 2 to produce multi-word utteranceswith more than one word already produced in iso-lation (words produced in part 1).
They do this us-ing a simple concatenation mechanism and the factthat the utterances they create have a pertinentmeaning prterances.Since the productions of children and their adultpartners are easy to record, it is possible to testwhether the testing procedure has sufficient gen-erative power to account for all children?s produc-tions.
However, some points could make such ademonstration more difficult than it appears.
Firstof all, the assumption made in part 1 is not alwaystrue, as it is quite possible for a child to reproduceany sequence of sounds while playing with lan-guage.
This uncertainty about part 1 is only impor-tant in conjunction with part 2, as isolated wordsare the key used to parse the elements of part 2.
Todecide that a word has meaning in isolation for achild, it has been assumed that it must first havemeaning in isolation for an adult.
Words in thecategories of determiner and auxiliary produced inisolation have been considered as not havingmeaning in isolation and have therefore been re-moved from the elements gathered at part 1.Analysis of language data demonstrated that thisassumption is quite reasonable, as the use of thesewords in isolation is often the result oterances, with incomplete prosody.Measuring the generative power of the testingprocedure implies evaluating the accuracy of theassumptions made in parts 1, 2 and 3.
These as-sumptions are quite easy to accept for very youngchildren, at the time of the first multi-word utter-ances, i.e.
before age two.
The question is: to whatextent is this true and until what age?
Two experi-ments havExperiment 1The experiment 1 used a corpus extracted fromthe CHILDES database (MacWhinney, 2000).
It isreferred to as the Manchester corpus (Theakston,Lieven, Pine, & Rowland, 1999) and consists ofrecordings of 12 children from the age of 1;10 to2;9.
Their mean length of utterance varies from 1.5to 2.9 words.
Each child was seen 34 times andeach recording lasted one hour.
This results in atotal production of 537,811 words in token and7,840 in type.
For each child, the average is 44,817words in372).The testing procedure was run in three steps inan iterative way.
Each step from the experimerresponds to one of the parts described above.Step 1: For each transcript, the child?s single-word utterances are extracted and added to a cumu-lative list of words uttered in isolation, referred toas L1.
It is possible to measure at this pointwhether the words on L1 can be derived from theadult?s output.
In order to do this, a cumulative listadult, of all adult utterances is also maintained.Step 2: For each multi-word utterance in thetranscript, the number of words previously utteredin isolation is computed using list L1.
Multi-wordutterances with only one word uttered in isolationare added to a list called L2.
It is possible to meas-ure at this point whether the utterances on L2 canbe derivove).Step 3: the remaining utterances (list L3), whichcontain more than one word previously uttered inisolation, are used to test the final step of the algo-rithm.
The test consists in trying to reconstructthese utterances using a catenation of the utter-ances from lists L1 and L2 only.
Two measure-ments can be obtained: the percentage of utter-ances on list L3 that can be fully reconstructed (re-ferred to below as the ?percentage of exact recon-struction?)
and the percentage of words in the ut-terances on list L3 that contribute to a reconstruc-tion (referred to below as the ?percentage of recon-struction covering?).
For example, for the utterance?The boy has gone to school?, if L1 and L2 contain?the boy?
and ?has gone?
but not ?to school?, only?the boy has gone?
can be reconstructed, thus lead-ing to a percentage of reconstruction covering of66%.
Thus, the percentage of exact reconstructionis the percentage of utterances with a 100% recon-struction covering.
The percentages of list L3 thatare reconstructed or recoveredrances from L1 and L2 lists.66The testing procedure is iterative because it isperformed in turn for each of the transcripts of thecorpus.
List L1, L2 and L-adult are cumulative,which means that the list obtained with transcript 1are used as a starting point for the analysis of tran-script 2, and so on.
This presupposes that childrencaercentage of elements of L2 present in adultt does not evolve much,varying between 6 and 8.n reuse data they heard only once a long timeafter they heard it.In Step 1 it was found that the percentage ofwords on L1 present in adult speech has a meanvalue of 91% (SD = 0.03).
Step 2 revealed that thespeech has a mean value of 67% (SD = 0.05).These two results are stable across ages?eventhough lists L1, L2 and L-adult are growing con-tinuously.
After two transcripts, for all 12 children,lists L1 + L2 represent 11,979 words in token andL-adult contains 82,255 words in token.
After 17transcripts, these totals are 89,479 and 688,802,respectively.
After 34 transcripts, they total167,149 and 1,370,565.
The ratio comparing thesize of L1 + L2 and L-adulp40%50%60%70%80%90%100%Children's ageAll corporaMean % per child'+1' SD'-1' SD1;10 2;9igure 1: Percentage of utterances exactly reconstructed F70%75%80%85%90%95%100%Children's ageAll corporaMean % per child'+1' SD'-1' SD1;10 2;9igure 2: Percentage of reconstruction covering in all utterancesF67The results for Step 3 are presented in Figures 1and 2.
Each point in the series corresponds to thenth iteration performed with the nth transcript.
Themean value is the mean of the percentage for allchildren considered as individuals (reconstructionbetween a child?s corpus and his/her parents?corpus only).
The algorithm is also applied to allcorpora: for each point in the series of recordings,the 12 files corresponding to 12 children aregathered into a single file used to run the nthiteration of the algorithm.
Percentages for allcorpora are shown with a bold line.
Thepercentages are clearly higher for the aggregatedcorpora, although the number of unknownutterances (list L3) increased more than thenumber of known utterances (lists L1 and L2).After two transcripts, there are half as manyelements in list L3 as in L1 + L2.
But after 17transcripts, L3 is 42% larger than L1 + L2, andafter 34 transcripts, it is 127% larger.
As childrengrow older, there is a decrease in the scores forexact reconstruction and reconstruction covering.This decrease is greater in individuals than for thechildren as a group, which suggests a size effect.4 Experiment 2The second experiment uses the same corpus andreproduces the same tests but assumes that childrenhave knowledge of the syntactic categories Nounand Verb.
The conditions of step 2 and step 3 aremore easily fulfilled if the children have a certainamount of syntactic class knowledge.
As describedby Maratsos and Chalkley (1980), it is possible forchildren to learn syntactic classes from the con-texts in which words occur.
However, knowledgeof part of speech is unlikely in very young childrenon the basis of syntactic distribution.
Semanticknowledge can also help to construct syntacticknowledge (Bloom, 1999) for classes such ascommon nouns, proper nouns and verbs, and per-haps also adjectives and adverbs.
To simulate thefact that children are able to construct the classesof common nouns, proper nouns and non-auxiliaryverbs, it suffices to substitute every occurrence ofcommon or proper nouns in the Manchester corpusby the symbol ?noun?
and every occurrence of non-auxiliary verbs by the symbol ?verb?.
This is easyto realize because the Manchester corpus has beenfully tagged for part of speech, as described in theMOR section of the CHILDES manual(MacWhinney, 2000).
The result is that list L1 nowincludes all nouns, all verbs plus all words occur-ring in isolation, as in the first experiment.
In listL2, in utterances that include a word from thecategories Noun or Verb, this word is substitutedby the symbol ?noun?
or ?verb?.
These utterancesnow form rule-like productive patterns known asformulaic frames (Peters, 1995) or slot-and-framestructures (Lieven, Pine, & Baldwin, 1997) ?
forexample, ?my + NOUN?.When we reproduce the first experiment underthese conditions, the new results obtained at steps2 and 3 should be better, in the sense that theyshould correspond more closely to the adult input,and should hold up longer on the age scale.The results for Step 1 and Step 2 are indeed bet-ter than before.
The percentage of utterances on L2present in adult speech has a mean value of 91%(SD = 0.02).The results for Step 3 are presented in Figure 3(for exact reconstruction) and Figure 4 (for recon-struction covering).
In each of these figures, tworesults are presented for the whole Manchestercorpus: one assuming no category knowledge, andone assuming the knowledge of the three catego-ries proper noun, common noun and verb.
The per-centages of reconstruction become markedlyhigher, as any combination that contains some ofthree categories proper noun, common noun andverb is known for all occurrences of words fromthese categories.
The mean for exact reconstructionwith ?no category?
knowledge is 67% (SD = 5.7)and 87% (SD = 2.0) for reconstruction covering.These values increase to 83% (SD = 5.2) and 95%(SD = 2.6) for ?noun and verb?
knowledge.6870%75%80%85%90%95%100%Children's ageNo categoryNoun & Verb2;91;10Figure 3: Percentage of utterances exactly reconstructed, depending on the degree of knowledge of nounand verb categories85%90%95%100%Children's ageNo categoryNoun & Verb1;10 2;9Figure 4: Percentage of reconstruction covering in all utterances, depending on the degree of knowledgeof noun and verb categories5 Experiment 3A limit of experiments 1 and 2 is that nothing indi-cates how long the three-step mechanisms wouldremain efficient and appropriate.
We supposed thatthese mechanisms would remain operational at anolder age.
This can be checked using other materialfrom the CHILDES database with recordingsspanning a longer period.
The corpus chosen forthe test is Brown?s (1973) Sarah corpus, whichranges from age 2;3 to age 5;1; with its 139 differ-ent transcripts, it follows the development of thechild?s language quite well and is well suited forthe purposes of this study, which requires lengthycorpora.
The mean length of utterance varies from1.47 to 4.85 words.
This results in a total produc-tion of 99,918 words in token and 3,990 in type.Step 1 found the percentage of words on L1 pre-sent in adult speech to have a mean value of 77%(SD = 14.5).
Step 2 revealed that the percentage ofelements of L2 present in adult speech had a meanvalue of 38% (SD = 11.5).
These two results are69stable across ages.
With the assumption of aknowledge of the Noun and Verb categories, re-sults for Step 1 and 2 are, respectively, 83% (SD =13.8) and 55% (SD = 16.6).The results for Step 3 are presented in Figure 5(for exact reconstruction) and Figure 6 (for recon-struction covering).
In each of these figures, tworesults are presented: one assuming no categoryknowledge and one assuming knowledge of thethree categories Proper Noun, Common Noun andVerb.
The mean for exact reconstruction with ?nocategory?
knowledge is 54% (SD = 17.6) and 84%(SD = 6.6) for reconstruction covering.
These val-ues increase 72% (SD = 11.9) and 93% (SD = 4.0)for ?Noun and Verb?
knowledge.30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%Children's ageNo categoryNoun & Verb2;3 5;1Figure 5: Percentage of utterances in the Sarah corpus exactly reconstructed, depending on the degree ofknowledge of vocabulary and syntactic categories70%75%80%85%90%95%100%Children's ageNo categoryNoun & Verb2;3 5;1Figure 6: Percentage of reconstruction covering in all utterances in the Sarah corpus, depending on thedegree of knowledge of vocabulary and syntactic categories70The average percentages of reconstruction arelower for the Sarah corpus than for the Manchestercorpus.
Comparing Figures 3 and 6 and Figures 4and 7, one can see that there is a drop in the recon-struction performances in the third year.
The per-centages for Sarah in her second year were as highas those for the Manchester corpus children.
Partof this drop in performance may be attributed tothe smaller corpus.
Indeed, comparing Figures 1and 3 and Figures 2 and 4, it appears that the dropin performance that became visible when singlechild corpora were used was not in evidence whenall the corpora were amalgamated into one big cor-pus.
It is also possible that the drop in performancefound in the Sarah corpus reflects a progressivedecrease in the systematic use of a simple concate-nation procedure by the child.6 DiscussionThe testing procedure does not achieve a full 100%reconstruction in the test conditions describedabove, where the database consists of only 34 one-hour recordings for each of the 12 children in thecorpus.
This corresponds globally to a pseudo-corpus of 408 hours, which amounts to 8 to 10weeks of speech.
With a larger corpus, the resultswould probably be better, as indicated by theincrease in percentage of recovery when onemoves from children in isolation to children as agroup (see Figures 1 and 2).
In addition, there arebound to be words that children utter for the firsttime in multi-word utterances even though theycould have been produced as isolated utterances.The percentage of reconstruction, however, is stillquite high, as was the case for results obtainedusing a similar methodology with Hungarianchildren (MacWhinney, 1975).
With theassumption of a benefit from the use of the Nounand Verb categories, which somewhat circumventsthe limited size of the corpus, the results are veryhigh.A problem with the second experiment is that itis not sure that children can have a knowledge ofpart of speech (even very general part of speechsuch as noun and verb) with semantic knowledgeonly.
However, the experiment 2 is interesting as itcan be viewed as a way to extend artificially a lim-ited corpus.
Instead of saying that children havethe knowledge of part of speech, we propose thatnoun and verb as so common in adult speech thatan extended corpus will contain all basic utteranceswith a single content word and the appropriategrammatical context.
In other words, list L2 willcontain all the most basic syntactic constructions.Although this will not be the case in reality, it isindeed possible that a full corpus covering all ut-terances produced by adults will contains a verylarge number of L2 structures.
In this way, exper-irment 2 provides a measure of the upper limit thatcan be reached by the crude mechanism presentedin this article (L3 constructions).The testing procedure does not cover all lan-guage acquisition processes before the age of three.Its rather crude mechanisms would, on their own,produce many aberrant utterances if they were notregulated by other mechanisms.
The first of theseregulatory mechanisms is semantics, as childrenproduce language that, for them, makes sense.They will articulate thoughts with two or threeelements that complement each other logically andthus create utterances interpretable by adults.Strange utterances may be produced on occasionbut none will sound alien.
Secondly, even thoughchildren sometimes join words or groups of wordsrandomly when very young, they soon start to fol-low a systematic order probably copied fromadults?
utterances (Sinclair & Bronckart, 1972).
Todo this, they merely have to concentrate on thewords or groups of words that they already master,having previously uttered them as single words.Indeed, form-function mapping is easier with sin-gle-word utterances than with multi-word utter-ances and this helps to manipulate single-wordforms consciously.
Thus, single-word utterancesare better candidates than most to become the firstelements in a combinatorial system and to undergorepresentational redescription (Karmiloff-Smith,1992).
Their semantic values allow one to performsemantic combinations.
By the age of two, associa-tions words or frozen forms may be sufficient toallow children to produce and control language.The fact that children can learn to produce com-plex speech patterns quickly without complexgrammatical knowledge casts a whole new light onthe problem of the acquisition of syntax.
The test-ing procedure relies heavily on semantics becauseit is assumed that what children understand, theywill remember and manipulate.
This does not nec-essarily contradict all the theories that claim thatthere are some innate principles specific to gram-mar acquisition (Pinker, 1984; Wexler, 1982).
If71children acquire high-level grammatical rules at alater period of their development than is usuallyadmitted in these theories, then the structure oftheir input?the couple ?base phrase marker?
plus?surface sentence?
(Wexler, 1982) ?
will be morecomplex.
The more complex these structures, thelower the innate conditions on grammars.
It wouldthen be possible to progress from a simple systemsuch as the association of frozen elements to amore complex one.
Late grammatical acquisition isa very important notion as it goes a long way to-wards explaining why there do not seem to be anyneuronal structures specific to language or gram-mar (Elman et al, 1996; Muller, 1996).
Lategrammatical acquisition is also highly compatiblewith constructivist proposals such as Tomasello?s(2003) and Goldberg?s (2006).It has often been said that children already mas-ter syntax by the age of three, which is quite re-markable considering the complexity of what theyare acquiring.
This report suggests that some sim-ple generative mechanisms can explain the explo-sive acquisition of an apparent mastery of languageobserved in young children.
It demonstrates onceagain that, as already shown for other linguisticdevelopmental features (Elman et al, 1996), anapparently complex output may be the product of asimple system.
The need for large-scale corpora tobetter tackle the problem of language acquisitionwith improved tools is also highlighted here.ReferencesBloom, P. (1999).
Theories of word learning: Rational-ist alternatives to associationism.
In W. C. Ritchie &T. K. Bhatia (Eds.
), Handbook of language acquisi-tion .
San Diego: Academic Press.Elman, J. L., Bates, E., Johnson, M., Karmiloff-Smith,A., Parisi, D., & Plunkett, K. (1996).
Rethinking in-nateness: A connectionist perspective on develop-ment.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press/Bradford Books.Goldberg, A.
(2006).
Constructions at Work: the natureof generalization in language.
Oxford UniversityPress.Jusczyk, P. W., & Hohne, E. A.
(1997).
Infants' memoryfor spoken words [see comments].
Science,277(5334), 1984-6.Karmiloff-Smith, A.
(1992).
Beyond modularity: a de-velopmental perspective on cognitive science.
Cam-bridge, Mass.
: MIT Press/Bradford Books.Lieven, E. V., Pine, J. M., & Baldwin, G. (1997).
Lexi-cally-based learning and early grammatical develop-ment.
Journal of Child Language, 24(1), 187-219.MacWhinney, B.
(1975).
Rules, rote, and analogy inmorphological formations by Hungarian children.Journal of Child Language, 2, 65-77.MacWhinney, B.
(2000).
The CHILDES project : Toolsfor analyzing talk (3rd).
Hillsdale, N.J, LawrenceErlbaum.Maratsos, M. P., & Chalkley, M. A.
(1980).
The internallanguage of children's syntax:  The ontogenesis andrepresentation of syntactic categories.
In K. E. Nel-son (Ed.
), Children's language.
Vol: 2 .
New York,NY: Gardner Press.Muller, R.-A.
(1996).
Innateness, autonomy, universal-ity?
Neurobiological approaches to language.
Behav-ioral and Brain Sciences, 19(4), 611-675.Peters, A. M. (1995).
Strategies in the acquisition ofsyntax.
In P. Fletcher & B. MacWhinney (Eds.
), Thehandbook of child language .
Oxford, UK: Black-well.Pinker, S. (1984).
Language learnability and languagedevelopment.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard UniversityPress.Ritchie, W. C., & Bhatia, T. K. (1999).
Child languageacquisition: Introduction, foundations, and overview.In W. C. Ritchie & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.
), Handbook oflanguage acquisition .
San Diego: Academic Press.Saffran, J. R., Johnson, E. K., Aslin, R. N., & Newport,E.
L. (1999).
Statistical learning of tone sequences byhuman infants and adults.
Cognition, 70(1), 27-52.Sinclair, H., & Bronckart, J. P. (1972).
S.V.O.
A lin-guistic universal?
A study in developmental psycho-linguistics.
Journal of Experimental Psychology,14(3), 329-348.Theakston, A. L., Lieven, E. V. M., Pine, J. M., & Row-land, C. F. (1999).
The role of performance limita-tions in the acquisition of 'mixed' verb-argumentstructure at stage 1.
In M. Perkins & S.
Howard(Eds.
), New directions in language development anddisorders : Plenum Press.Tomasello, M. (2003).
Constructing a language: A us-age-based theory of language acquisition.
Cam-bridge: MA, Harvard.Wexler, K. (1982).
A principle theory for language ac-quisition.
In E. Wanner & L. R. Gleitman (Eds.
),Language acquisition - the state of the art.
NewYork: Cambridge University Press.72
