Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on Important Unresolved Matters, pages 73?80,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsArabic to French Sentence Alignment: Exploration of A Cross-language Information Retrieval ApproachNasredine SemmarCEA, LISTLaboratoire d?ing?nierie de la connais-sance multim?dia multilingue18 route du PanoramaBP6, FONTENAY AUX ROSES, F-92265 Francenasredine.semmar@cea.frChristian FluhrCEA, LISTService R?alite virtuelle, Cognitique etInterfaces18 route du PanoramaBP6, FONTENAY AUX ROSES, F-92265 Francechristian.fluhr@cea.frAbstractSentence alignment consists in estimatingwhich sentence or sentences in the sourcelanguage correspond with which sentenceor sentences in a target language.
We pre-sent in this paper a new approach to align-ing sentences from a parallel corpus basedon a cross-language information retrievalsystem.
This approach consists in buildinga database of sentences of the target textand considering each sentence of thesource text as a "query" to that database.The cross-language information retrievalsystem is a weighted Boolean search en-gine based on a deep linguistic analysis ofthe query and the documents to be indexed.This system is composed of a multilinguallinguistic analyzer, a statistical analyzer, areformulator, a comparator and a searchengine.
The multilingual linguistic analyzerincludes a morphological analyzer, a part-of-speech tagger and a syntactic analyzer.The linguistic analyzer processes bothdocuments to be indexed and queries toproduce a set of normalized lemmas, a setof named entities and a set of nominalcompounds with their morpho-syntactictags.
The statistical analyzer computes fordocuments to be indexed concept weightsbased on concept database frequencies.
Thecomparator computes intersections betweenqueries and documents and provides a rele-vance weight for each intersection.
Beforethis comparison, the reformulator expandsqueries during the search.
The expansion isused to infer from the original query wordsother words expressing the same concepts.The search engine retrieves the ranked,relevant documents from the indexes ac-cording to the corresponding reformulatedquery and then merges the results obtainedfor each language, taking into account theoriginal words of the query and theirweights in order to score the documents.The sentence aligner has been evaluated onthe MD corpus of the ARCADE II projectwhich is composed of news articles fromthe French newspaper "Le Monde Diplo-matique".
The part of the corpus used inevaluation consists of the same subset ofsentences in Arabic and French.
Arabicsentences are aligned to their French coun-terparts.
Results showed that alignment hascorrect precision and recall even when thecorpus is not completely parallel (changesin sentence order or missing sentences).1 IntroductionSentence alignment consists in mapping sentencesof the source language with their translations in thetarget language.
Automatic sentence alignmentapproaches face two kinds of difficulties: robust-ness and accuracy.
A number of automatic sen-tence alignment techniques have been proposed(Kay and R?scheisen, 1993; Gale and Church,1991; Brown et al, 1991; Debili and Samouda,1992; Papageorgiou et al, 1994; Gaussier, 1995;Melamed, 1996; Fluhr et al, 2000).73The method proposed in (Kay and R?scheisen,1993) is based on the assumption that in order forthe sentences in a translation to correspond, thewords in them must correspond.
In other words, allnecessary information (and in particular, lexicalmapping) is derived from the to-be-aligned textsthemselves.In (Gale and Church, 1991) and (Brown et al,1991), the authors start from the fact that the lengthof a source text sentence is highly correlated withthe length of its target text translation: short sen-tences tend to have short translations, and longsentences tend to have long translations.The method proposed in (Debili and Sammouda,1992) is based on the preliminary alignment ofwords using a conventional bilingual lexicon andthe method described in (Papageorgiou et al, 1994)added grammatical labeling based on the assump-tion that the same parts of speech tend to be em-ployed in the translation.In this paper, we present a sentence alignerwhich is based on a cross-language informationretrieval approach and combines different informa-tion sources (bilingual lexicon, sentence length andsentence position).
This sentence aligner was firstdeveloped for aligning French-English parallel text.It is now ported to Arabic-French and Arabic-English language pairs.We present in section 2 the main components ofthe cross-language search engine, in particular, wewill focus on the linguistic processing.
In section 3,the prototype of our sentence aligner is described.We discuss in section 4 results obtained after align-ing sentences of the MD (Monde Diplomatique)corpus of the ARCADE II project.
Section 5 con-cludes our study and presents our future work.2 The Cross-language Search EngineInformation retrieval consists to find all relevantdocuments for a user query in a collection ofdocuments.
These documents are ordered by theprobability of being relevant to the user's query.The highest ranked document is considered to bethe most likely relevant document.
Cross-languageinformation retrieval consists in providing a queryin one language and searching documents indifferent languages (Grefenstette, 1998).
Thecross-lingual search engine is a weighted Booleansearch engine based on a deep linguistic analysis ofthe query and the documents to be indexed(Besan?on et al, 2003).
It is composed of alinguistic analyzer, a statistical analyzer, areformulator and a comparator (Figure 1):Figure 1.
The cross-language search engine2.1 Linguistic AnalysisThe linguistic analyzer produces a set of normal-ized lemmas, a set of named entities and a set ofnominal compounds.
It is composed of several lin-guistic resources and processing modules.Each language has its proper linguistic resourceswhich are generally composed of:?
A full form dictionary, containing for eachword form its possible part-of-speech tagsLinguistic analysisComparatorStatisticanalysisReformulationGenerallexiconsReformulationlexiconsSearch engine database (Indexeddocuments)Documents to beindexedQueriesDocumentsgrouped in rele-vant classes74and linguistic features (gender, number, etc).For languages such as Arabic which pre-sents agglutination of articles, prepositionsand conjunctions at the beginning of theword as well as pronouns at the ending ofthe word, we added two other dictionariesfor proclitics and enclitics in order to splitthe input words into proclitics, simple formsand enclitics.?
A monolingual reformulation dictionaryused in query expansion for expandingoriginal query words to other words express-ing the same concepts (synonyms, hypo-nyms, etc.).?
Bilingual dictionaries used in cross-language querying.?
A set of rules for tokenizing words.?
A set of  part-of-speech n-grams (bigramsand trigrams from hand-tagged corpora) thatare used for part-of-speech tagging.?
A set of rules for shallow parsing of sen-tences, extracting compounds from the inputtext.?
A set of rules for the identification ofnamed entities: gazetteers and contextualrules that use special triggers to identifynamed entities and their type.The processing modules are common for all thelanguages with some variations for some specificlanguages:?
A Tokenizer which separates the inputstream into a graph of words.
This separa-tion is achieved by an automaton devel-oped for each language and a set of seg-mentation rules.?
A Morphological analyzer which searcheseach word in a general dictionary (Debiliand Zouari, 1985).
If this word is found, itwill be associated with its lemma and allits morpho-syntactic tags.
If the word isnot found in the general dictionary, it isgiven a default set of morpho-syntactictags based on its typography.
For Arabic,we added to the morphological analyzer anew processing step: a Clitic stemmer(Larkey et al, 2002) which splits aggluti-nated words into proclitics, simple formsand enclitics.
If the simple form computedby the clitic stemmer does not exist in thegeneral dictionary, re-write rules are ap-plied (Darwish, 2002).
For example, con-sider the token ??
(with their ballon)and the included clitics ???
(with) and ???
(their), the computed simple form ???
?does not exist in the general dictionary butafter applying one of the dozen re-writerules, the modified simple form ????
(ballon) is found in the general dictionaryand the input token is segmented as: = ? + ?
?
+ ?.?
An Idiomatic Expressions recognizerwhich detects idiomatic expressions andconsiders them as single words for the restof the processing.
Idiomatic expressionsare phrases or compound nouns that arelisted in a specific dictionary.
The detec-tion of idiomatic expressions is performedby applying a set of rules that are triggeredon specific words and tested on left andright contexts of the trigger.
These rulescan recognize contiguous expressions asthe "white house" in English, la "maisonblanche" in French or " ???
??? ?"
in Ara-bic.
Non-contiguous expressions such asphrasal verbs in English: "switch?on" or"tomber vaguement dans les pommes" inFrench are recognized too.?
A Part-Of-Speech (POS) tagger whichsearches valid paths through all the possi-ble tags paths using attested trigrams andbigrams sequences.
The trigram and bi-gram matrices are generated from a manu-ally annotated training corpus (Grefen-stette et al, 2005).
They are extracted froma hand-tagged corpora of 13 200 words forArabic and 25 000 words for French.
If nocontinuous trigram full path is found, thePOS tagger tries to use bigrams at thepoints where the trigrams were not foundin the matrix.
The accuracy of the part-of-speech tagger is around 91% for Arabicand 94% for French.?
A Syntactic analyzer which is used to splitword graph into nominal and verbal chainand recognize dependency relations (espe-cially those within compounds) by using aset of syntactic rules.
We developed a setof dependency relations to link nouns to75other nouns, a noun with a proper noun, aproper noun with the post nominal adjec-tive and a noun with a post nominal adjec-tive.
These relations are restricted to thesame nominal chain and are used to com-pute compound words.
For example, in thenominal chain ?
?
? ??
(water supply),the syntactic analyzer considers this nomi-nal chain as a compound word ( ?
?_ ? )composed of the words ?
?
??
(supply)and ???
(water).?
A Named Entity recognizer which usesname triggers (e.g., President, lake, corpo-ration, etc.)
to identify named entities(Abuleil and Evens, 2004).
For example,the expression ????&?
?
?$ ?#?? ?????
(The firstof March) is recognized as a date and theexpression ?
()???+&??
????
(The Middle East)is recognized as a location.?
Eliminating Empty Words consists in iden-tifying words that should not be used assearch criteria and eliminating them.
Theseempty words are identified using only theirparts of speech (such as prepositions, arti-cles, punctuations and some adverbs).?
Finally, words are normalized by theirlemma.
In the case the word has a set ofsynonymous lemmas, only one of theselemmas is taken as a normalization.
Eachnormalized word is associated with itsmorpho-syntactic tag.2.2 Statistical AnalysisThe role of the statistical analysis is to attributea weight to each word or a compound word ac-cording to the information the word or the com-pound word provides in choosing the documentrelevant to a query.
This weight is computed by anidf formula (Salton and McGill, 1983).
The weightis maximum for words appearing in one singledocument and minimum for words appearing in allthe documents.
This weight is used by the com-parator to compute the semantic intersection be-tween query and documents containing differentwords.
A similarity value is associated with eachsemantic intersection.
This value corresponds tothe sum of the weights of words present in thedocuments.
The search engine groups documentsinto classes (semantic intersections) characterizedby the same set of words.
These classes constitutea discrete partition of the indexed documents.
Forexample, the search engine returns 12 classes forthe query ?
???
??????
??
(water resources man-agement) (Table 1).Class Query terms1 ???_????
?_2 ???_,???_?????3,????_????
?4  ???,????
?_5 ???_????
?6 ??
?_7  ???
,????
?,8  ????
?,9  ???,????
?10 ??
?,1112 ??
?Table 1.
Relevant classes returned by the searchengine for the query ????
??????
?
?The query term ?
???
_?????
? _?
?
is a compoundword composed of three  words: ?
??????
(manage-ment), ????
??
(resources ) and ?
??
(water ).
Thiscompound word is computed by the syntactic ana-lyzer.2.3 Query ReformulationThe role of query reformulation is to infer newwords from the original query words according to alexical semantic knowledge.
The reformulation canbe used to increase the quality of the retrieval in amonolingual interrogation.
It can also be used toinfer words in other languages.
The query termsare translated using bilingual dictionaries.
Eachterm of the query is translated into several terms intarget language.
The translated words form thesearch terms of the reformulated query.
The linksbetween the search terms and the query conceptscan also be weighted by a confidence value indi-cating the relevance of the translation.
Reformula-tion rules can be applied to all instances of a wordor to a word only when it is playing a specific part-of-speech.
Semantic relations can also be selected:translations, synonyms, word derived from thesame root, etc.
The cross-language search enginehas a monolingual reformulation for French andtwo bilingual reformulations for Arabic-Frenchand French-Arabic language pairs.762.4 Query and Documents ComparisonThe search engine indexer builds the inverted filesof the documents on the basis of their linguisticanalysis: one index is built for each language of thedocument collection.
This indexer builds separateindexes for each language.
The search engine usesa comparison tool to evaluate all possible intersec-tions between query words and documents, andcomputes a relevance weight for each intersection.This relevance weight corresponds to the sum ofthe weights of words present in the documents.3 The Sentence AlignerParallel text alignment based on cross-languageinformation retrieval consists in building a data-base of sentences of the target text and consideringeach sentence of the source text as a "query" to thatdatabase (Figure 2).Figure 2.
Sentence alignment stepsTo evaluate whether the two sentences are trans-lations of each other, we use three criteria:?
Number of common words between thesource sentence and the target sentence(semantic intersection) must be higher than50% of number of words of the target sen-tence.?
Position of the sentence to align must be inan interval of 10 compared to the positionof the last aligned sentence.?
Ratio of lengths of the target sentence andthe source sentence (in characters) must behigher or equal than 1.1 (A French charac-ter needs 1.1 Arabic characters): Longersentences in Arabic tend to be translatedinto longer sentences in French, andshorter sentences tend to be translated intoshorter sentences.The alignment process has four steps:1.
Exact match 1-1 alignment: The goal ofthis step is to obtain an alignment with amaximum precision by using the three cri-teria: Number of common words betweenthe source sentence and the target sen-tence; Position of the sentence to align;Ratio of lengths of the target sentence andthe source sentence.2.
1-2 alignment: This alignment consists inmerging an unaligned sentence with onepreceding or following already alignedsentence.
We use to validate this alignmentonly the first two criteria.3.
2-1 alignment: The goal of this alignmentis to find for the two sentences followingan aligned sentence a sentence in the targetlanguage taking into account the positionof the last aligned sentence.
This align-ment is validated by using only the firsttwo criteria.4.
Fuzzy match 1-1 alignment: This align-ment proposes for the sentence to alignthe first sentence of the first class returnedby the cross-language search engine.
Thistype of alignment is added to take into ac-count alignments which are partially cor-rect (The source sentence is not completelyaligned but some of its words are trans-lated).Cross-lingual Interrogation inFrench databaseList of FrenchsentencesCross-lingual Interrogation inArabic databaseList of ArabicsentencesArabic sentences toalignCheck of alignment criteriaFrench alignedsentences77We describe below the algorithm of the ExactMatch 1-1 alignment which is the base of the otheraligners.
This algorithm uses the functions of thecross-language search engine API.?
PerformCrosslinguageSearch(Query, Cor-pus, Source language, Target language):returns the set of relevant classescorresponding to the question ?Query?in the database "Corpus".
Each class iscomposed of a set of sentences in thetarget language.?
GetNumberOfCommonWords(Class): returnsthe number of common words between thesource sentence and the target sentence(semantic intersection).?
GetNumberOfWords(Sentence): returns thenumber of words of a sentence.?
GetNumberOfCharacters(Sentence): re-turns the number of characters of asentence.function GetExactMatchOneToOneAlign-ments(CorpusAr, CorpusFr)for each Arabic sentence PjAr ?
CorpusAr doCFr?PerformCrosslinguageSearch(PjAr, Cor-pusFr, Ar, Fr)R?0; Initialize the position of the lastaligned sentence.for each class ClFr ?
CFr dofor each French sentence PmFr ?
ClFr doCAr?PerformCrosslinguageSearch(PmFr,CorpusAr, Fr, Ar)for each class CqAr ?
CAr dofor each Arabic sentence PqAr ?
CqArdoif PqAr=PjAr thenNMFr=GetNumberOfCommonWords(ClFr);NMAr=GetNumberOfWords(PjAr);NCAr=GetNumberOfCharacters(PjAr);NCFr=GetNumberOfCharacters(PmFr)if (NMFr ?
NMAr/2) and (R?5 ?
m ?R+5) and (NCFr=(1.1)*NCAr) thenThe sentence PmFr is the align-ment of the sentence PjAr;R?mend ifend ifend forend forend forend forend forend functionFor example, to align the Arabic sentence [4/30](sentence of position 4 in the Arabic corpus con-taining 30 sentences) ?
89 ?
?7 ???
456 ?3#?
?1  ?0/?
:;  <0 4?
?
?$ ?3@???
?<=;>?B 4C? D 4=89 6?
$E/4 ?DF>??
 ?
(In Italy, the order of things persuaded inan invisible way a majority of electors that time oftraditional parties was finished), the exact match 1-1 aligner proceeds as follows:?
The Arabic sentence is considered to be aquery to the French sentence database us-ing the cross-language search engine.
Re-trieved sentences for the two first classesare illustrated in Table 2.Class Number ofretrievedsentencesRetrieved sentences1 1 [4/36] En Italie, l'ordre deschoses a persuad?
demani?re invisible une ma-jorit?
d'?lecteurs que letemps des partis traditionnels?tait termin?2 3 [32/36] Au point que, d?savant ces ?lections, un heb-domadaire britannique, rap-pelant les accusationsport?es par la justice itali-enne contre M. Berlusconi,estimait qu'un tel dirigeantn'?tait pas digne de gou-verner l'Italie, car il consti-tuait un danger pour la d?-mocratie et une menace pourl'Etat de droit[34/36] Apr?s le pitoyableeffondrement des partis tra-ditionnels, la soci?t?
itali-enne, si cultiv?e, assisteassez impassible (seul lemonde du cin?ma est entr?en r?sistance) ?
l'actuelled?gradation d'un syst?mepolitique de plus en plusconfus, extravagant, ridiculeet dangereux[36/36] Toute la question estde savoir dans quelle mesurece mod?le italien si pr?occu-pant risque de s'?tendre de-main ?
d'autres pays d'Eu-ropeTable 2.
Retrieved sentences corresponding to theArabic sentence [4/30]?
Results of cross-language querying showthat the sentence [4/36] is a good candidateto alignment.
To confirm this alignment,we use the French sentence as a query tothe Arabic database.
Relevant sentencescorresponding to the French query "EnItalie, l'ordre des choses a persuad?
de78mani?re invisible une majorit?
d'?lecteursque le temps des partis traditionnels ?taittermin?"
are grouped into two classes inTable 3.Class Number ofretrievedsentencesRetrieved sentences1 1 [4/30]/0?
89 ?
?7 ???
456 ?3#?
?1 ?4C? D 4=89 6?
$E/4 ?D:; <0 4?
?
?$ ?3@???
?<=;>?BF>??
2 3 [26/30]?H4 ?IJI H?
??K3?
?L?
M+?1?4 ??<=??
89 ?????
?OP;4Q)3?
?JR4 ??
?@>?
?K???
89 ?5?>Q??7?4 ?4K4 ?CU=??
?J ?(<5?V?
M0 8?
) <P?1 ??
/?
?V?3 ?$ ?LP?
??
?O>?3?MH? F?
?7 ???
W ??<K X41  ?
?;Q0?46 ?
1 ?>?;Q 7?E?
?=?
[28/30]50?
>? V4 ?WY / <0?4=Z+; H4?
59> ?3??
?C+>?>R??
?<=;>?4?
#> ??@J5?
?$ ???
??
?3?87 ? F>9=H ??
?V? /P?
70?
?/H>) ?>?
@???
??
?$ /^?
?1 ?=?
?4 ?<>?
BR?
_8 ?5?8 ??
?> ?$ ?))??
7O?
? `OP?
?+7) ?
? [30/30]4 $ 89 ?495 ?1 ?
?BP? M??H??
?3?87 ?/?
?V?>?
?$ ?<; 89 ?
?<D +>/??
?
d;=;  4??
?????E?
Table 3.
The two classes corresponding to theFrench sentence [4/36]The first proposed sentence is the original oneand more of 50% of the words are common to thetwo sentences.
Furthermore, the length ratio be-tween the French sentence and the Arabic sentenceis superior than 1.1 and positions of these two sen-tences in the databases are the same.
Therefore, theexact match 1-1 aligner considers the French sen-tence [4/36] as a translation of the Arabic sentence[4/30].4 Experimental ResultsThe sentence aligner has been tested on the MDcorpus of the ARCADE II project which is com-posed of news articles from the French newspaper"Le Monde Diplomatique" (Chiao et al, 2006).This corpus contains 5 Arabic texts (244 sentences)aligned at the sentence level to 5 French texts (283sentences).
The test consisted to build two data-bases of sentences (Arabic and French) and to con-sider each Arabic sentence as a "query" to theFrench database.To evaluate the sentence aligner, we used thefollowing measures:Precision =AAA r?and Recall =rrAAA ?A corresponds to the set of alignments providedby the sentence aligner and Ar corresponds to theset of the correct alignments.The results we obtained at sentence level (Table4) show an average precision around 97% and anaverage recall around 93%.
These results do nottake into account alignments which are partiallycorrect (Fuzzy match 1-1 alignment).Parallel Text Precision Recall1 0.969 0,9412 0,962 0,9283 0,985 0,9574 0,983 0,9525 0,966 0,878Table 4.
Results of alignment at sentence levelAnalysis of these results shows that our sentencealigner is not sensitive to missing sentences.
Thisis because the first criterion used by our aligner isnot related to surface information (sentence posi-tion or sentence length) but on the semantic inter-section of these sentences.Moreover, we have noted that precision dependson the discriminate terms which can occur in thesource and target sentences.795 Conclusion and PerspectivesWe have proposed a new approach to sentencealignment based on a cross-language informationretrieval model combining different informationsources (bilingual lexicon, sentence length andsentence position).
The results we obtained showcorrect precision and recall even when the parallelcorpus includes changes in sentence order andmissing sentences.
This is due to the non-sequential strategy used by the sentence aligner.
Infuture work, we plan to improve the alignmentwith syntactic structures of source and target sen-tences and to use the aligned bilingual parallel cor-pus as a translation memory in a computer-aidedtranslation tool.ReferencesAbuleil S., and Evens M. 2004.
Named Entity Recogni-tion and Classification for Text in Arabic.
In Pro-ceedings of IASSE-2004.Besan?on R., de Chalendar G., Ferret O., Fluhr C.,Mesnard O., and Naets H. 2003.
Concept-BasedSearching and Merging for Multilingual InformationRetrieval: In Proceedings of CLEF-2003.Brown P., Lai L., and Mercier L. 1991.
Aligning Sen-tences in Parallel Corpora.
In Proceedings of ACL-1991.Chiao Y. C., Kraif O., Laurent D., Nguyen T., SemmarN., Stuck F., V?ronis J., and Zaghouani W. 2006.Evaluation of multilingual text alignment systems:the ARCADE II project.
In Proceedings of LREC-2006.Darwish K. 2002.
Building a Shallow Arabic Morpho-logical Analyzer in One Day.
In Proceedings of ACL-2002.Debili F. and Zouari L. 1985.
Analyse morphologiquede l?arabe ?crit voyell?
ou non fond?e sur la con-struction automatique d?un dictionnaire arabe, Cogni-tiva, Paris.Debili F. and Sammouda E. 1992.
Appariement desPhrases des Textes Bilingues.
In Proceedings of the14th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.Fluhr C., Bisson F., and Elkateb F. 2000.
Parallel textalignment using cross-lingual information retrievaltechniques.
Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers.Gale W.A.
and Church K. W. 1991.
A program foraligning sentences in bilingual corpora.
In Proceed-ings of the 29th Annual Meeting of Association forComputational Linguistics.Gaussier E. 1995.
Mod?les statistiques et patrons mor-phosyntaxiques pour l'extraction de lexiques bilin-gues.
Ph.D. Thesis, Paris VII University.Grefenstette G. 1997.
Cross-language information re-trieval.
Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers.Grefenstette G., Semmar N., and Elkateb-Gara F. 2005.Modifying a Natural Language Processing Systemfor European Languages to Treat Arabic in Informa-tion Processing and Information Retrieval Applica-tions.
In Proceedings of ACL-2005 Workshop.Kay M. and R?scheisen M. 1993.
Text-translationalignment.
Computational Linguistics, Special issueon using large corpora, Volume 19, Issue 1.Larkey L. S., Ballesteros L., and Connel M. E. 2002.Improving Stemming for Arabic Information Re-trieval: Light Stemming and Co-occurrence Analysis.In Proceedings of the 25th annual international ACMSIGIR conference on Research and development ininformation retrieval.Melamed I. D. 1996.
A Geometric Approach to Map-ping Bitext Correspondence.
In Proceedings of theConference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing.Papageorgious H., Cranias, L., and Piperidis, S. 1994.Automatic Alignment in Parallel Corpora.
In Pro-ceedings of the 32nd Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Salton G. and McGill M. 1983.
Introduction to ModernInformation retrieval.
New York: McGraw Hill.80
