BioNLP 2007: Biological, translational, and clinical language processing, pages 89?96,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsBioNoculars: Extracting Protein-Protein Interactions from Biomedical TextAmgad Madkour, *Kareem Darwish, Hany Hassan, Ahmed Hassan, Ossama EmamHuman Language Technologies GroupIBM Cairo Technology Development CenterP.O.Box 166 El-Ahram, Giza, Egypt{amadkour,hanyh,hasanah,emam}@eg.ibm.com,*kareem@darwish.orgAbstractThe vast number of published medical doc-uments is considered a vital source for rela-tionship discovery.
This paper presents a sta-tistical unsupervised system, called BioNoc-ulars, for extracting protein-protein interac-tions from biomedical text.
BioNocularsuses graph-based mutual reinforcement tomake use of redundancy in data to constructextraction patterns in a domain independentfashion.
The system was tested using MED-LINE abstract for which the protein-proteininteractions that they contain are listed in thedatabase of interacting proteins and protein-protein interactions (DIPPPI).
The systemreports an F-Measure of 0.55 on test MED-LINE abstracts.1 IntroductionWith the ever-increasing number of publishedbiomedical research articles and the dependencyof new research and previously published research,medical researchers and practitioners are faced withthe daunting prospect of reading through hundredsor possibly thousands of research articles to sur-vey advances in areas of interest.
Much work hasbeen done to ease access and discovery of articlesthat match the interest of researchers via the useof search engines such as PubMed, which providessearch capabilities over MEDLINE, a collection ofmore than 15 million journal paper abstracts main-tained by the National Library of Medicine (NLM).However, with the addition of abstracts from morethan 5,000 medical journals to MEDLINE everyyear, the number of articles containing informationthat is pertinent to users needs has grown consider-ably.
These 5,000 journals constitute only a subsetof the published biomedical research.
Further, med-ical articles often contain redundant information andonly subsections of articles are typically of direct in-terest to researchers.
More advanced informationextraction tools have been developed to effectivelydistill medical articles to produce key pieces of in-formation from articles while attempting to elimi-nate redundancy.
These tools have focused on areassuch as protein-protein interaction, gene-disease re-lationship, and chemical-protein interaction (Chunet al, 2006).
Many of these tools have been usedto extract key pieces of information from MED-LINE.
Most of the reported information extractionapproaches use sets of handcrafted rules in conjunc-tion with manually curated dictionaries and ontolo-gies.This paper presents a fully unsupervised statisti-cal technique to discover protein-protein interactionbased on automatically discoverable repeating pat-terns in text that describe relationships.
The paperis organized as follows: section 2 surveys relatedwork; section 3 describes BioNoculars; Section 4describes the employed experimental setup; section5 reports and comments on experimental results; andsection 6 concludes the paper.2 BackgroundThe background will focus primarily on the taggingof Biomedical Named Entities (BNE), such genes,gene-products, proteins, and chemicals and the Ex-89traction of protein-protein interactions from text.2.1 BNE TaggingConcerning BNE tagging, the most common ap-proaches are based on hand-crafted rules, statisti-cal classifiers, or a hybrid of both (usually in con-junction with dictionaries of BNE).
Rule-based sys-tems (Fukuda et al, 1998; Hanisch et al, 2003; Ya-mamoto et al, 2003) that use dictionaries tend toexhibit high precision in tagging named entities butgenerally with lower tagging recall.
They tend tolag the latest published research and are sensitiveto the expression of the named entities.
Dictionar-ies of BNE are typically laborious and expensive tobuild, and they are dependant on nomenclatures andspecific species.
Statistical approaches (Collier etal., 2000; Kazama et al, 2002; Settles, 2004) typ-ically improve recall at the expense of precision,but are more readily retargetable for new nomen-clatures and organisms.
Hybrid systems (Tanabeand Wilbur, 2002; Mika and Rost, 2004) attempt totake advantage of both approaches.
Although theseapproaches tend to generate acceptable recognition,they are heavily dependent on the type of data onwhich they are trained.
(Fukuda et al, 1998) proposed a rule-based pro-tein name extraction system called PROPER (PRO-tein Proper-noun phrase Extracting Rules) system,which utilizes a set of rules based on the surfaceform of text in conjunction with a Part-Of-Speech(POS) tagging to identify what looks like a proteinwithout referring to any specific BNE dictionary.They reported a 94.7% precision and a 98.84% re-call for the identification of BNEs.
The results thatthey achieved seem to be too specific to their train-ing and test sets.
(Hanisch et al, 2003) proposed a rule-basedprotein and gene name extraction system calledProMiner, which is based on the construction of ageneral-purpose dictionary along with different dic-tionaries of synonyms and an automatic curationprocedure based on a simple token model of proteinnames.
Results showed that their system achieved a0.80 F-measure score in the name extraction task onthe BioCreative test set (BioCreative).
(Yamamoto et al, 2003) proposed the use of mor-phological analysis to improve protein name tag-ging.
Their approach tags proteins based on mor-pheme chunking to properly determine protein nameboundary.
They used the GENIA corpus for trainingand testing and obtained an F-measure score of 0.70for protein name tagging.
(Collier et al, 2000) used a machine learning ap-proach to protein name extraction based on a linearinterpolation Hidden Markov Model (HMM) trainedusing bi-grams.
They focused on finding the mostlikely protein sequence classes (C) for a given se-quence of words (W), by maximizing the probabil-ity of C given W, P(C?W).
Unlike traditional dic-tionary based methods, the approach uses no manu-ally crafted patterns.
However, their approach maymisidentify term boundaries for phrases containingpotentially ambiguous local structures such as co-ordination and parenthesis.
They reported an F-measure score of 0.73 for different mixtures of mod-els tested on 20 abstracts.
(Kazama et al, 2002) proposed a machine learn-ing approach to BNE tagging based on support vec-tor machines (SVM), which was trained on the GE-NIA corpus.
Their preliminary results of the systemshowed that the SVM with the polynomial kernelfunction outperforms techniques of Maximum En-tropy based systems.Yet another BNE tagging system is ABNER (Set-tles, 2005), which utilizes machine learning, namelyconditional random fields, with a variation of or-thographic and contextual features and no seman-tic or syntactic features.
ABNER achieves an F-measure score of 0.71 on the NLPA 2004 sharedtask dataset corpus and 0.70 on the BioCreative cor-pus.and scored an F1-measure of 51.8set.
(Tanabe and Wilbur, 2002) used a combinationof statistical and knowledge-based strategies, whichutilized automatically generated rules from transfor-mation based POS tagging and other generated rulesfrom morphological clues, low frequency trigrams,and indicator terms.
A key step in their method isthe extraction of multi-word gene and protein namesthat are dominant in the corpus but inaccessible tothe POS tagger.
The advantage of such an approachis that it is independent of any biomedical domain.However, it can miss single word gene names thatdo not occur in contextual gene theme terms.
Itcan also incorrectly tag compound gene names, plas-mids, and phages.
(Mika and Rost, 2004) developed NLProt, which90combines the use of dictionaries, rules-based filter-ing, and machine learning based on an SVM classi-fier to tag protein names in MEDLINE.
The NLProtsystem used rules for pre-filtering and the SVM forclassification, and it achieved a precision of 75% andrecall 76%.2.2 Relationship ExtractionAs for the extraction of interactions, most efforts inextraction of biomedical interactions between enti-ties from text have focused on using rule-based ap-proaches due to the familiarity of medical terms thattend to describe interactions.
These approaches haveproven to be successful with notably good results.
Inthese approaches, most researchers attempted to de-fine an accurate set of rules to describe relationshiptypes and patterns and to build ontologies and dic-tionaries to be consulted in the extraction process.These rules, ontologies, and dictionaries are typi-cally domain specific and are often not generalizableto other problems.
(Blaschke et al, 1999) reported a domain spe-cific approach for extracting protein-protein interac-tions from biomedical text based on a set of pre-defined patterns and words describing interactions.Later work attempted to automatically extract inter-actions, which are referenced in the database of in-teracting proteins (Xenarios et al, 2000), from thetext mentioning the interactions (Blaschke and Va-lencia, 2001).
They achieved surprisingly low recall(25%), which they attributed to problems in properlyidentifying protein names in the text.
(Koike et al, 2005) developed a system calledPRIME, which was used to extract biological func-tions of genes, proteins, and their families.
Theirsystem used a shallow parser and sentence struc-ture analyzer.
They extracted so-called ACTOR-OBJECT relationships from the shallow parsed sen-tences using rule based sentence structure analysis.The identification of BNEs was done by consultingthe GENA gene name dictionary and family namedictionary.
In extracting the biological functions ofgenes and proteins, their system reported a recall of64% and a precision of 94%.Saric et al developed a system to extract geneexpression regulatory information in yeast as wellas other regulatory mechanisms such phosphoryla-tion (Saric et al, 2004; Saric et al, 2006).
Theyused a rule based named entity recognition module,which recognizes named entities via cascading finitestate automata.
They reported a precision of 83-90%and 86-95% for the extraction of gene expressionand phosphorylation regulatory information respec-tively.
(Leroy and Chen, 2005) used linguistic parsersand Concept Spaces, which use a generic co-occurrence based technique that extracts relevantmedical phrases using a noun chunker.
Their systememployed UMLS (Humphreys and Lindberg, 1993),GO (Ashburner et al, 2000), and GENA (Koike andTakagi, 2004) to further improve extraction.
Theirmain purpose was entity identification and cross ref-erence to other databases to obtain more knowledgeabout entities involved in the system.Other extraction approaches such as the one re-ported on by (Cooper and Kershenbaum, 2005) uti-lized a large manually curated dictionary of manypossible combinations of gene/protein names andaliases from different databases and ontologies.They annotated their corpus using a dictionary-based longest matching technique.
In addition, theyused filtering with a maximum entropy based namedentity recognizer in order to remove the false posi-tives that were generated from merging databases.The problem with this approach is the resulting in-consistencies from merging databases, which couldhurt the effectiveness of the system.
They reporteda recall of 87.1 % and a precision of 78.5% in therelationship extraction task.Work by (Mack et al, 2004) used the Munich In-formation Center for Protein Sequences (MIPS) forentity identification.
Their system was integrated inthe IBM Unstructured Information Management Ar-chitecture (UIMA) framework (Ferrucci and Lally,2004) for tokenization, identification of entities, andextraction of relations.
Their approach was based ona combination of computational linguistics, statis-tics, and domain specific rules to detect protein in-teractions.
They reported a recall of 61% and a pre-cision of 97%.
(Hao et al, 2005) developed an unsupervised ap-proach, which also uses patterns that were deducedusing minimum description lengths.
They used pat-tern optimization techniques to enhance the patternsby introducing most common keywords that tend todescribe interactions.91(Jo?rg et.
al., 2005) developed Ali Baba whichuses sequence alignments applied to sentences an-notated with interactions and part of speech tags.Italso uses finite state automata optimized with a ge-netic algorithm in its approach.
It then matches thegenerated patterns against arbitrary text to extract in-teractions and their respective partners.
The systemscored an F1-measure of 51.8% on the LLL?05 eval-uation set.The aforementioned systems used either rule-based approaches, which require manual interven-tion from domain experts, or statistical approaches,either supervised or semi-supervised, which also re-quire manually curated training data.3 BioNocularsBioNoculars is a relationship extraction system thatbased on a fully unsupervised technique suggestedby (Hassan et al, 2006) to automatically extractprotein-protein interaction from medical articles.
Itcan be retargeted to different domains such as pro-tein interactions in diseases.
The only requirementis to compile domain specific taggers and dictionar-ies, which would aid the system in performing therequired task.The approach uses an unsupervised graph-basedmutual reinforcement, which depends on the con-struction of generalized extraction patterns thatcould match instances of relationships (Hassan etal., 2006).
Graph-based mutual reinforcement issimilar to the idea of hubs and authorities in webpages depicted by the HITS algorithm (Kleinberg,1998).
The basic idea behind the algorithm is thatthe importance of a page increases when more andmore good pages link to it.
The duality between pat-terns and extracted information (tuples) leads to thefact that patterns could express different tuples, andtuples in turn could be expressed by different pat-terns.
Tuple in this context contains three elements,namely two proteins and the type of interaction be-tween them.
The proposed approach is composed oftwo main steps, namely initial pattern constructionand then pattern induction.For pattern construction, the text is POS taggedand BNE tagged.
The tags of Noun Phrases or se-quences of nouns that constitute a BNE are removedand replaced with a BNE tag.
Then, an n-gram lan-guage model is built on the tagged text (using tagsonly) and is used to construct weighted finite statemachines.
Paths with low cost (high language modelprobabilities) are chosen to construct the initial setof patterns; the intuition is that paths with low cost(high probability) are frequent and could representpotential candidate patterns.
The number of candi-date initial patterns could be reduced significantlyby specifying the candidate types of entities of in-terest.
In the case of BioNoculars, the focus wason relationships between BNEs of type PROTEIN.The candidate patterns are then applied to the taggedstream to produce in-sentence relationship tuples.As for pattern induction, due to the duality in thepatterns and tuples relation, patterns and tuples arerepresented by a bipartite graph as illustrated in Fig-ure 1.Figure 1: A bipartite graph representing patterns andtuplesEach pattern or tuple is represented by a node inthe graph.
Edges represent matching between pat-terns and tuples.
The pattern induction problem canbe formulated as follows: Given a very large set ofdata D containing a large set of patterns P, whichmatch a large set of tuples T, the problem is to iden-tify , which is the set of patterns that match the setof the most correct tuples T. The intuition is thatthe tuples matched by many different patterns tendto be correct and the patterns matching many differ-ent tuples tend to be good patterns.
In other words,BioNoculars attempts to choose from the large spaceof patterns in the data the most informative, high-est confidence patterns that could identify correct tu-ples; i.e.
choosing the most authoritative patterns inanalogy with the hub-authority problem.
The mostauthoritative patterns can then be used for extractingrelations from free text.
The following pattern-tuplepairs show how patterns can match tuples in the cor-pus:(protein) (verb) (noun) (prep.)
(protein)92Cla4 induces phosphorylation of Cdc24(protein) (I-protein) (Verb) (prep.)
(protein)NS5A interacts with Cdk1The proposed approach represents an unsuper-vised technique for information extraction in generaland particularly for relations extraction that requiresno seed patterns or examples and achieves signifi-cant performance.
Given enough domain text, theextracted patterns can support many types of sen-tences with different styles (such passive and activevoice) and orderings (the interaction of X and Y vs.X interacts with Y).One of the critical prerequisites of the above-mentioned approach is the use of a POS tagger,which is tuned for biomedical text, and a BNE tag-ger to properly identify BNEs.
Both are critical fordetermining the types of relationships that are of in-terest.
For POS tagging, a decision tree based taggerdeveloped by (Schmid, 1994) was used in combi-nation with a model, which was trained on a cor-rected/revised GENIA corpus provided by (Saric etal., 2004) and was reported to achieve 96.4% taggingaccuracy (Saric et al, 2006).
This POS tagger willbe referred to as the Schmid tagger.
For BNE tag-ging, ABNER was used.
The accuracy of ABNERis approximately state of the art with precision andrecall of 74.5% and 65.9% respectively with trainingdone using the BioCreative corpora (BioCreative).Nonetheless we still face entity identification prob-lems such as missed identifications in the text whichin turn affects our results considerably.
We do be-lieve if we use a better identification method , wewould yield better results.4 Experimental SetupExperiments aimed at extracting protein-proteininteractions for Bakers yeast (SacharomycesCerevesiae) to assess BioNoculars (Cherry et al,1998).
The experiments were performed using109,440 MEDLINE abstracts that contained thevarying names of the yeast, namely Sacharomycescerevisiae, S. Cerevisiae, Bakers yeast, Brewersyeast and Budding yeast.
MEDLINE abstractstypically summarize the important aspects of paperspossibly including protein-protein interactions ifthey are of relevance to the article.
The goal wasto deduce the most appropriate extraction patternsthat can be later used to extract relations from anydocument.
All the MEDLINE abstracts were usedfor pattern extraction except for 70 that were setaside for testing.
There were no test documents inthe training set.
To build ground-truth, the test setwas semi-manually POS and BNE tagged.
Theywere also annotated with the interactions that arecontained in the text.
There was a condition thatall the abstracts that are used for testing must haveentries in the Database of Interacting Proteins andProtein-Protein Interactions (DIPPPI), which isa subset of the Database of Interacting Proteins(DIP) (Xenarios et al, 2000) restricted to proteinsfrom yeast.
DIPPPI lists the known protein-proteininteractions in the MEDLINE abstracts.
There were297 protein-protein interactions in the test set of 70abstracts.
One of the disadvantages of DIPPPI isthat the presence of interactions is indicated withoutmentioning their types or from which sentencesthey were extracted.
Although BioNoculars is ableto guess the sentence from which an interaction wasextracted and the type of interaction, this informa-tion was ignored when evaluating against DIPPPI.Unfortunately, there is no standard test set for theproposed task, and most of the evaluation sets areproprietary.
The authors hope that others can benefitfrom their test set, which is freely available.The abstracts used for pattern extraction werePOS tagged using the Schmid tagger and BNE tag-ging was done using ABNER.
The patterns were re-stricted to only those with protein names.
For extrac-tion of interaction tuples, the test set was POS andBNE tagged using the Schmid tagger and ABNERrespectively.
A varying number of final patternswere then used to extract tuples from the test set andthe average recall and precision were computed.
An-other setup was used in which the relationships werefiltered using preset keywords for relationships suchas inhibits, interacts, and activates to properly com-pare BioNoculars to systems in the literature that usesuch keywords.
The keywords were obtained fromthe (Hakenberg et al, 2005) and (Temkin and Gilder,2003).
One of the generated pattern-tuple pairs wasas follows:(PROTEIN) (Verb) (Conjunction) (PROTEIN)NS5A interacts with Cdk1One consequence of tuple extraction is generationof redundant tuples, which contain the same enti-93Pattern Count 30 59 78 103 147 192 205 217Recall 0.51 0.70 0.76 0.81 0.84 0.89 0.89 0.93Precision 0.47 0.42 0.43 0.35 0.30 0.26 0.26 0.16FMeasure 0.49 0.53 0.55 0.49 0.44 0.40 0.40 0.27Table 1: Recall, Precision, and F-measure for extrac-tion of tuples using a varying number of top ratedpatternsties and relations.
Consequently, all protein aliasesand full text names were resolved to a unified nam-ing scheme and the unified scheme was used to re-place all variations of protein names in patterns.
Allpotential protein-protein interactions that BioNocu-lars extracted were compared to those in the DIPPPIdatabases.5 Results and DiscussionFor the first set of experiments, the experimentalsetup described above was used without modifica-tion.
Table 1 and Figure 2 report on the resultingrecall and precision when taking different numberof highest rated patterns.
The highest rated 217 pat-terns were divided on a linear scale into 8 clustersbased on their relative weights.Figure 2: Recall, Precision, and F-measure for tupleextraction using a varying number of top patternsAs expected, Figure 2 clearly shows an inverserelationship between precision and recall.
This isbecause using more extraction patterns yields moretuples thus increasing recall at the expense of pre-cision.
The F-measure (with ?
= 1) peeks at 78patterns, which seems to provide the best scoregiven that precision and recall are equally important.However, the technique seems to favor recall, reach-ing a recall of 93% when using all 217 patterns.
ThePattern Count 30 59 78 103 147 192 205 217Recall 0.31 0.44 0.46 0.48 0.64 0.73 0.74 0.78Precision 0.31 0.36 0.35 0.34 0.39 0.35 0.35 0.37FMeasure 0.31 0.40 0.40 0.40 0.48 0.47 0.48 0.50Table 2: Recall, Precision, and Recall for extractionof tuples using a varying number of top rated patterskeyword filteringlow precision levels warrant thorough investigation.In the second set of experiments, extracted tupleswere filtered using preset keywords indicating inter-actions.
Table 2 and Figure 3 show the results of theexperiments.Figure 3: Recall, Precision, and F-measure for tu-ple extraction using a varying number of top patternswith keyword filteringThe results show that filtering with keywords ledto lower recall, but precision remained fairly steadyas the number of patterns changed.
Nonetheless, thebest precision in Figure 3 is lower than the best pre-cision in Figure 2 and the maximum F-measure forthis set of experiments is lower than the maximumF-measure when no filtering was used.
The BioNoc-ulars system with no filtering can be advantageousfor recall oriented applications.
The use of no filter-ing suggests that some interaction may be expressedin more generic forms or patterns.
An intermediatesolution would be to increase the size of the list ofmost commonly occurring keywords to filter the ex-tracted tuples further.Currently, ABNER, which is used by the system,has a precision of 75.4% and a recall of 65.9%.
Per-haps improved tagging may improve the extractioneffectiveness.The effectiveness of BioNoculars needs to be94thoroughly compared to existing systems via the useof standard test sets, which are not readily available.Most of previously reported work has been testedon proprietary test sets or sets that are not publiclyavailable.
The creation of standard publicly avail-able test set can prompt research in this area.6 Conclusion and Future WorkThis paper presented a system for extractingprotein-protein interaction from biomedical text callBioNoculars.
BioNoculars uses a statistical un-supervised learning algorithm, which is based ongraph mutual reinforcement and data redundancyto extract extraction patterns.
The system is re-call oriented and is able to properly extract 93% ofthe interaction mentions from test MEDLINE ab-stracts.
Nonetheless, the systems precision remainslow.
Precision can be enhanced by using keywordsthat describe interactions to filter to the resulting in-teraction, but this would be at the expense of recall.As for future work, more attention should be fo-cused on improving extraction patterns.
Currently,the system focuses on extracting interactions be-tween exactly two proteins.
Some of the issues thatneed to be handled include complex relationship (Xand Y interact with A and B), linguistic variabil-ity (passive vs. active voice; presence of superflu-ous words such as modifiers, adjectives, and prepo-sitional phrases), protein lists (W interacts with X,Y, and Z), nested interactions (W, which interactswith X, also interacts with Y).
Resolving these is-sues would require an investigation of how patternscan be generalized in automatic or semi-automaticways.
Further, the identification of proteins in thetext requires greater attention.
Also, the BioNocu-lars approach can be combined with other rule-basedapproaches to produce better results.ReferencesAshburner, M., C. A.
Ball, J.
A. Blake, D. Botstein, H.Butler, J. M. Cherry, A. P. Davis, K. Dolinski, S. S.Dwight, J. T. Eppig, M. A. Harris, D. P. Hill, L. Issel-Tarver, A. Kasarskis, S. Lewis, J. C. Matese, J. E.Richardson, M. Ringwald, G. M. Rubin, and G. Sher-lock.
2000.
Gene ontology: tool for the unification ofbiology.
Nature Genetics,volume 25 pp.25-29.BioCreative.
2004.
[Online].Blaschke C., M. A. Andrade, C. Ouzounis, and A. Valen-cia.
1999.
Automatic Extraction of Biological Infor-mation from Scientific Text: Protein-Protein Interac-tions.
ISMB99, pp.
60-67.Blaschke, C. and A. Valencia.
2001.
Can BibliographicPointers for Known Biological Protein Interactionsas a Case Study.
Comparative and Functional Ge-nomics,vol.
2: 196-206.Cherry, J. M., C. Adler, C. Ball, S. A. Chervitz, S. S.Dwight, E. T. Hester, Y. Jia, G. Juvik, T. Roe, M.Schroeder, S. Weng, and D. Botstein.
1998.
SGD:Saccharomyces Genome Database.
Nucleic Acids Re-search, 26, 73-9.Chun, H. W., Y. Tsuruka, J. D. Kim, R. Shiba, N. Nagata,T.
Hishiki, and J. Tsujii.
2006.
Extraction of Gene-Disease Relations from MEDLINE Using Domain Dic-tionaries and Machine Learning.
Pacific Symposiumon Biocomputing 11:4-15.Collier, N., C. Nobata, and J. Tsujii.
2000.
Extractingthe Names of Genes and Gene Products with a HiddenMarkov Model.
COLING, 2000, pp.
201207.Cooper, J. and A. Kershenbaum.
2005.
Discovery ofprotein-protein interactions using a combination oflinguistic, statistical and graphical information.
BMCBioinformatics.DIPPPI http://www2.informatik.hu-berlin.de/ haken-ber/corpora.
2006.Ferrucci, D. and A. Lally.
2004.
UIMA: an architec-tural approach to unstructured information processingin the corporate research environment.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering 10, No.
3-4, 327-348.Fukuda, K., T. Tsunoda, A. Tamura, and T. Takagi.
1998.Toward information extraction: identifying proteinnames from biological papers.
PSB, pages 705716.Hakenberg, J., C. Plake, U. Leser, H. Kirsch, and D.Rebholz-Schuhmann.
2005.
LLL?05 Challenge:Genic Interaction Extraction with Alignments and Fi-nite State Automata.
Proc Learning Language in LogicWorkshop (LLL?05) at ICML 2005, pp.
38-45.
Bonn,Germany.Hanisch, D., J. Fluck, HT.
Mevissen, and R. Zimmer.2003.
Playing biologys name game: identifying pro-tein names in scientific text.
PSB, pages 403414.Hao, Y., X. Zhu, M. Huang, and M. Li.
2005.
Discov-ering patterns to extract protein-protein interactionsfrom the literature: Part II.
Bioinformatics, Vol.
00no.
0 2005 pages 1-7.95Hassan, H., A. Hassan, and O. Emam.
2006.
Un-supervised Information Extraction Approach UsingGraph Mutual Reinforcement.
Proceedings of Em-pirical Methods for Natural Language Processing (EMNLP ).Humphreys B. L. and D. A.
B. Lindberg.
1993.
TheUMLS project: making the conceptual connection be-tween users and the information they need.
Bulletin ofthe Medical Library Association, 1993; 81(2): 170.Jo?rg Hakenberg, Conrad Plake, Ulf Leser.
2005.
GenicInteraction Extraction with Alignments and FiniteState Automata.
Proc Learning Language in LogicWorkshop (LLL?05) at ICML 2005, pp.
38-45.
Bonn,Germany (August 2005)Kazama, J., T. Makino, Y. Ohta, and J. Tsujii.
2002.
Tun-ing Support Vector Machines for Biomedical NamedEntity Recognition.
ACL Workshop on NLP inBiomedical Domain, pages 18.Kleinberg, J.
1998.
Authoritative sources in a hy-perlinked environment.
In Proc.
Ninth Ann.
ACM-SIAM Symp.
Discrete Algorithms, pages 668-677,ACM Press, New York.Koike A. and T. Takagi.
2004.
Gene/protein/familyname recognition in biomedical literature.
BioLINK2004: Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies, andDatabase, pp.
9-16.Koike, A., Y. Niwa, and T. Takagi 2005.
Automaticextraction of gene/protein biological functions frombiomedical text.
Bioinformatics, Vol.
21, No.
7.Leroy, G. and H. Chen.
2005.
Genescene: An Ontology-enhanced Integration of Linguistic and Co-Occurancebased Relations in Biomedical Text.
JASIST SpecialIssue on Bioinformatics.Mack, R. L., S. Mukherjea, A. Soffer, N. Uramoto, E. W.Brown, A. Coden, J. W. Cooper, A. Inokuchi, B. Iyer,Y.
Mass, H. Matsuzawa, L. V. Subramaniam.
2004.Text analytics for life science using the UnstructuredInformation Management Architecture.
IBM SystemsJournal 43(3): 490-515.Mika, S. and B. Rost.
2004.
NLProt: extracting pro-tein names and sequences from papers.
Nucleic AcidsResearch, 32 (Web Server issue): W634W637.Saric, J., L. J. Jensen, R. Ouzounova, I. Rojas, and P.Bork.
2004.
Extracting regulatory gene expressionnetworks from PUBMED.
Proceedings of the 42ndAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Barcelona, Spain, pp.191-198.Saric, J., L. J. Jensen, R. Ouzounova, I. Rojas, and P.Bork.
2006.
Extraction of regulatory gene/proteinnetworks from Medline.
Bioinformatics Vol.22 no6,pp.
645-650.Schmid, H. 1994.
Probabilistic Part-of-Speech TaggingUsing Decision Trees.
In the International Conferenceon New Methods in Language Processing, Manch-ester, UK.Settles, B.
2004.
Biomedical Named Entity RecognitionUsing Conditional Random Fields and Rich FeatureSets.
In Proceedings of the International Joint Work-shop on Natural Language Processing in Biomedicineand its Applications (NLPBA), Geneva, Switzerland,pages 104-107.Settles, B.
2005.
ABNER: an open source tool for au-tomatically tagging genes, proteins, and other entitynames in text.
Bioinformatics, 21(14): 3191-3192.Tanabe L., and W. J. Wilbur.
2002.
Tagging geneand protein names in biomedical text.
Bioinformatics,18(8):11241132.Temkin, J. M. and M. R. Gilder.
2003.
Extractionof protein interaction information from unstructuredtext using a context-free grammar.
Bioinformatics19(16):2046-2053.Xenarios I, Rice DW, Salwinski L, Baron MK, MarcotteEM, Eisenberg D. 2000.
DIP: the Database of Inter-acting Proteins.
Nucleic Acids Res 28: 289291.Yamamoto, K., T. Kudo, A. Konagaya, Y. Matsumoto.2003.
Protein Name Tagging for Biomedical Annota-tion in Text.
Proceedings of the ACL 2003 Workshopon Natural Language Processing in Biomedicine, pp.65-72.96
