Proceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 51?58,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsSimple Preposition Correspondence: A problem  in English to Indianlanguage Machine TranslationSamar Husain, Dipti Misra Sharma, Manohar Reddy{samar@research.iiit.net,dipti@mail.iiit.net,manohar@students.iiit.net}Language Technologies Research Centre,IIIT, Hyderabad, India.AbstractThe paper describes an approach to auto-matically select from Indian Language theappropriate lexical correspondence of Eng-lish simple preposition.
The paper de-scribes this task from a Machine Transla-tion (MT) perspective.
We use the proper-ties of the head and complement of thepreposition to select the appropriate sensein the target language.
We later show thatthe results obtained from this approach arepromising.1 IntroductionThe task of identifying the appropriate sense fromsome target language (here, Hindi and Telugu) fora given simple preposition in some source lan-guage (here, English) is rather complex for an MTsystem, and noting that most foreign languagelearners are never able to get a firm hold on prepo-sitions of a new language (Brala, 2000), this shouldnot be surprising.
A simple example illustrates theproblem:(1a) He bought a shirt with tiny collars.?with?
gets translated to vaalii in Hindi (hnd).and as kaligi unna in Telugu (tlg).
(1b) He washed a shirt with soap.?with?
gets translated to se in hnd.and as to (suffixed to head noun) in tlg.For the above English sentences, if we try toswap the senses of ?with?
in their correspondingtarget translation, the resulting sentences eitherbecome ill-formed or unfaithful to their Englishsource.
The pervasive use of preposition (or itsequivalent in a given language) in most of the lan-guages makes it a crucial element during transla-tion.
Inappropriate sense selection of a prepositionduring machine translation can have a negativeimpact on the quality of the translation, sometimeschanging the semantics of the sentence drastically,thereby making the preposition sense selectionmodule a critical component of any reliable MTsystem.Finding the proper attachment site for the prepo-sition in English, i.e.
getting the correct parse forthe prepositional phrase (PP) is a classic problemin MT, and this information can be used to identifythe sense of a preposition.
Figure 1 and Figure 2below show the correct attachment site of PPs inexample (1a) and (1b) respectively.51The correct parse of the PP helps us in selectingthe appropriate sense.
However, finding the appro-priate attachment only reduces the problem.
It doesnot lead to a ?complete solution?.
The followingexamples (2a, 2b and 3a, 3b) have the same at-tachment site but take different senses in the targetlanguage:(2a) He has had fever for two days now.?for?
gets translated as se in hnd.and as nundi in tlg.
(2b) He had fever for two days.?for?
gets translated as taka in hnd.Not translated in tlg.
(3a) He is going to Delhi.?to?
gets translated as ko, or preferably left un-translated in hnd.and in tlg as ki (suffixed to the head noun), ormay be left un-translated.
(3b) He is going to his mother.?to?
gets translated as ke paasa in hnd.and daggaraku in tlgAfter looking at cases such as (2a), (2b) and (3a),(3b) where the parse is same i.e., preposition ?forand ?to?
get attached to the main verb ?have?
and?go?
respectively, it is clear that we need to comeup with some criterion which can help us inachieving our task.There has been extensive work on understandingprepositions linguistically, often from various an-gles.
Syntactically (Jackendoff, 1977; Emonds,1985; Rauh, 1993; Pullum and Huddleton, 2002),from a Cognitive perspective (Lakoff and Johnson,1980; Langacker, 1987; Brala, 2000), Semanticallyby (Saint-Dizier and Vazquez, 2001; Saint-Dizier,2005), and the Pragmatic aspects by (Fauconnier,1994).The work of automatically selecting the correctsense has also received good amount of attentionand there have been many attempts to solve theproblem.
(Japkowicz et.
al, 1991) attempts to trans-late locative prepositions between English andFrench.
The paper introduces the notion of ?repre-sentation of conceptualization?
based in turn on(Grimaud, 1988).
The paper synthesizes this ideawith the thesis of ideal meaning (Herskovits, 1986).
(Tezuka et.
al, 2001) have tried to resolve concep-tual geographical prepositions using inference rulebased on cognitive maps which people have of theexternal world.
(Hartrumpf et al, 2005) useknowledge representation formalism for PP inter-pretation.Some studies pertain to systems which havebeen implemented for MT; (Gustavii, 2005) usesaligned parallel corpora to induce automatic rulesby applying transformation-based learning.
(Alam,2004) make use of contextual information to de-termine the meanings of over.
(Trujillo, 1992) usea transfer rule based approach to translate locativePP-phrase, the approach uses the dependency rela-tions marked as indices with individual word and abilingual lexicon which has mapping betweensource and target lexical item (with indices).
(Naskar and Bandyopadhyay, 2005) look at thesemantics of the head noun of the reference object(this is their main criterion) to get the lexicalmeaning of prepositions in an English-Bengali MTsystem.The current paper presents a study of preposi-tions at, for, in, on, to and with in context of Eng-lish to Indian language MT system.
The paper isarranged as follows; Section 2 describes our ap-proach to solving the mentioned task, the 3rd sec-tion shows the performance of our approach alongwith the error analysis during the testing phase, weconclude the paper along with some future direc-tion in section 4.2 Our ApproachAll the previous attempts can be broadly classifiedinto 3 main categories; one, where the prepositionis the main focus, concentration is on the semantics(cognitive or lexical) of the preposition; second,focus on the verb and the PP which the verb takesas argument; and lastly, the head noun of the PPbecomes the deciding factor to get the appropriatesense.Very few approaches, like (Alam, 2004; Saint-Dizier and Vazquez, 2001),  consider both, thehead (modified) and the complement (modifier)information, to decide the sense of the preposition.The modified (or head) is the head of the phrase towhich the PP attaches.
The modifier (orcomplement) is the head noun of the PP.
Thefollowing examples show very clearly why given apreposition we cannot depend only on the modifiedor the modifier separately, and that we mustconsider them both to solve the problem.52Considering only the modifier (the complement);(4a) He apologized to his mother.?to?
gets translated as se in hnd& ki (suffixed to the head noun) in  tlg(4b) He went to his mother.?to?
gets translated as ke paasa in hnd& as daggaraku in tlgConsidering only the modified (the head);(5a) He waits for her at night.?at?
gets translated as meM in hnd& not translated in tlg(5b) He waits for her at the station.?at?
gets translated as par& as lo in tlgOnly considering the modifer ?his mother?
in 4aand 4b is not sufficient, likewise taking only themodified ?waits?
in 5a and 5b will be insufficient,both the pairs take different senses and have thesame partial contextual enviornment which ismisleading.
Hence, the combined context ofcomplement-head forms a better candidate forsolving the problem.
We come across plenty ofcases where isolated information ofmodifier/modified can be misleading.The task of preposition sense selection can bedivided into;(a) Getting the correct parse (the task of PP at-tachment, identification of phrasal verb, etc.
),(b) Context and semantic extraction,(c) Sense selection.This paper describes the algorithm for achievingthe above mentioned steps.
We assume the input toour module has the correct parse, i.e.
Step (a)above is assumed here.
The proposed algorithm isa component in English to Indian language MTsystem1, therefore, the required input can be pre-sumed to be available.
Steps (b, c) above are rulebased, which make use of the modifier-modifiedrelation, these relations and the properties of modi-fier/modified form the core of the context in step(b).
We then apply a series of rules, which specifythe context and semantics in which a sense1 (http://shakti.iiit.ac.in).
Note here that the proposedalgorithm has been tested with Shakti version 0.83x which hasstill not been released.
The released version is 0.73.is expected to occur.2.1 Context and semantic extractionExtraction of context and semantic information (ofmodifier/modified) is done automatically by vari-ous sub-modules which are combined together toperform the overall task.
We use the word ?con-text?
very loosely.
A context for us is a combina-tion of various properties which can be syntactic orlexical, or both; syntactic context can be modifier-modified relation, lexical properties can be mor-phological information such as TAM (tense, aspectand modality) of a verb, class of the verb (Levin,1993), category of the lexical item and in somecases the lexical item itself.The semantics of the modifier and the modifiedare captured using WordNet (Miller, 1990), andcertain other resources such as person, place dic-tionaries, place and time filters (these filters makeuse of syntactic cues to mark basic time and place),etc.
We use WordNet to get the hypernyms of aword.
By using this property we can easily get thebroader, more general class/concept for a modi-fier/modified.
Although effective and very intui-tive, this method has its own problems.
We willelaborate these problems in section 3.2.
WordNetis also used to identify person and place names byusing the hyponym tree for person and place.Along with the WordNet, as mentioned above,we use certain other filters such as place and time.They are used prior to using WordNet.
In case arule requires the modifier to be a place (rules areexplained in 2.2), this information is acquired fromthe place filter.
If the filter?s result is negative weuse WordNet.
Dictionaries and POS tags arechecked for identifying proper names, we use aproper name dictionary as POS taggers tend tohave a fixed upper limit especially when it comesto the identification of named entities.
In essence,the linguistic resources are used in the followingorder;(1) Dictionaries,(2) Time & Place filter,(3) WordNet.Preliminary results have shown that certainprepositions occurring in the PP complement ofcertain verb classes (Levin, 1993) translate to aspecific sense in Hindi.
For example, preposition?at?
in the case of peer verbs always translates tokii tarapha or kii ora in Hindi.
This knowledge can53be very informational and we plan to pursue thisaspect in the future.2.2 Sense SelectionWe have noticed in the previous examples that theprepositions from English either get translated assuffixes to the head noun of the PP (in Telugu) oras postpositions (in Hindi and Telugu).
Anexample where a preposition in English getstranslated as postposition in its Telugu translationis shown below;(6) The book is on the table.
?buka     taibila     paiina   undi??Book?
?table?
?on?
?there?We select the correct sense of the prepositionbased on a series of rules which are appliedlinearly.
These rules have been manuallyconstructed.
We have tried to make the rulesmutually exclusive, so that there are no clashes.Also, by making sure that the rules are mutuallyexclusive we don?t need to worry about the orderin which the rules are listed out in the rule file, thusmaking the rule file less fragile.
These rulescurrently cover around 20 high frequency Englishprepositions, these prepositions vary in theirdegree of ambiguity; some are highly ambiguous(e.g.
to, by, with, etc.
), whereas some are lessambiguous (e.g.
against, around, as, etc.
), hencethese are easier to handle.Various senses on the target side for a givenEnglish preposition are selected on the basis ofrules listed out in a file.
The rule file comprises oftuples, each having 6 attributes.The attributes are listed below;a)  Source Language prepositionb)  Modified categoryc)  Constraints on the modified itemd)  Modifier categorye)  Constraints on the modifier itemf) Dictionary sense id of the source languageprepositionAn example of a tuple:# at, v, -, n, place_close, at%p%5(7) He has opened a school at his home.
?usane   apne ghara   mem eka  skuula kholaa hei?
?He erg?
?his?
?house?
?at?
?one?
?school??open?
?is?The rule above requires the modifier to be anoun and places a constraint ?place_close?
on it.We map this constraint (place_close) with some setof lexical items found in a synset of a hypernymobtained from WordNet.
For example,?place_close?
might correspond to ?housing?,?lodging?, ?building?, etc in a synset.
In essence?place_close?
is place holder for different relationswhich might be present in a synset.
The modifiedcategory and the modifier category can be ex-tracted after the correct parse of the PP is known;the constraints applied on the modified and modi-fier item (point c, e above) can be of various kinds,some of them are;?
Semantic relations corresponding toWordNet hypernyms for a given word?
Presence of the lexical item in some list(eg.
verb class)?
Semantic property such as ?time?
or ?place??
Lexical property such as aspect, negativityetc.The constraints specified in a tuple can be com-bined together using logical operators such as?and?, ?or?, ?negation?.
So, for a single rule, multi-54ple constraints can be introduced.
For a sense, ifneeded, complex constraints can be introducedwhich must be satisfied.#for, v, L2:for.dat && aspect:continuous, n, time,for%p%5(8) He has been playing for years.
?vaha   kaii      saalo   se    khela   rahaa   hai ??He?
?many?
?years?
?for?
?play?
?cont.?
?is?The above rule (for the Hindi translation) hastwo constraints for the modified (which is a verb inthis case), the two constraints have been combinedusing an ?and?
operator (represented using twoampersands, ?&&?).
Only if the two constraints aresatisfied, the constraint is considered as satisfiedelse it is considered as failed.
The use of differentlogical operator gives a lot of expressive power toa single rule.
Sometimes it might be desirable toplace multiple constraints together, because for agiven sense these constraints always occur together,and by listing them as separate rules we will missout the fact that they co-occur.It is not always necessary (or possible) to fill theconstraint fields.
In fact, sometimes it is even de-sirable to leave them unspecified.
In such a casewe place a hyphen in that field, such as the follow-ing rule;# at, v, -, n, place_close, at%p%5In the above rule, the constraint for the modifiedfield is unspecified.
There are also cases when it isnot desirable to have a translated preposition corre-sponding to its source;# to, L: verbs.txt, -, n, place, ZZ(9) He went to Delhi.
?vaha dilli     gayaa?
(in hnd)?He?
?Delhi?
?went?The ?ZZ?
in the above rule signifies that thetranslated sentence will have no preposition corre-sponding to the preposition ?to?
when it occurswith certain verbs which are specified by?L:verbs.txt?
(?verbs.txt?
is a list of verbs).
For theabove Hindi sentence post-position ?ko?
can2 Listperhaps be introduced, i.e.
?vaha dilli ko gayaa?,but ?vaha dilli gayaa?
is more natural, and thetranslated sentence is better off without a ?ko?.Finally, each preposition handled has a defaultrule, which is applied at the end when all the otherrules for that preposition fail; the sense given bythe default rule is based on the most frequent usageof the preposition at the target side.
All the fields(except the first and last) in the default rule havehyphens.
The default rule for ?to?
is written below;to, -, -, -, -, to%p%1Some of the rules in the rule file are given below,for ease of comprehension, we mention the actualtarget sense instead of the dictionary id for the lastfield (the actual rule file has dictionary sense id)at, v, L:peer_verbs.txt, n, -, kii taraphaat, v, L:transaction_verbs.txt, n, price, meMfor, v, -, n, distance, takain, n, animate, n, place, kaaon, v, -, n, time, koto, v, L:go_verbs.txt, n, animate|authority, kepaasawith, v, -, n, instrument, se2.3 RecapWe briefly describe the various steps of the al-gorithm again;(a) Given a raw sentence we feed it to theShakti MT system which performs varioussource language analysis, for our algo-rithm, information such as PP attachmentand correct identification of the phrasalverb (if present) is crucial.
(b) The output of step (a) is taken by ourmodule which automatically constructsthe six field tuple described above.
At thispoint we can only fill some fields, whichare field 1 (source language preposition),field 2 (modified category) and field 4(modifier category).
(c) We then compare this constructed tuplewith the appropriate tuples present in therule file.
For this constructed tuple to sat-isfy the various constraints mentioned inthe tuple with which it is compared re-sources such as place filter, time filter,lists and WordNet are consulted automati-55cally.
The order in which we use these re-sources has been already been mentionedin section 2.1.
The tuple for which all theconstraints are satisfied is selected, thelast field of this tuple contains the diction-ary id of the sense.
(d) Output the selected sense.3 EvaluationFor the current study, experiments were conductedwith 6 high frequency prepositions, they are; at,for, in, on, to, and with.
The algorithm was testedon 100 sentences for each preposition in both thelanguage pairs, i.e., 600 sentences for English-Hindi and 600 sentences for English-Telugu.
Thesesentences were randomly extracted from theERDC3 corpus.
The corpus contains text from dif-ferent domains such as medicine, sports, history,etc.
The input to the implemented system wasmanually checked and corrected to make sure thatthere were no errors in the information which isexpected by the system.
The bulk of these correc-tions involved rectifying the wrong PP attachmentgiven by the parser and the mistakes in phrasalverb identification.Prep4 Precision BL No.
of SenseAt 73.4 51.5 5For 84.05 69.5 6In 82 65.2 7On 85 70 3To 65.2 35.4 10With 66 50 6Table 1{English-Hindi}.Prep4 Precision BL No.
of SenseAt 68 48 5For 72 50 7In 82 82 3On 76 76 2To 80 80 2With 94 90 3Table 2{English-Telugu}.3Electronic Research and Development Centre, NOIDA4 Prepositions3.1 PerformanceThe tables above show the performance of the sys-tem and compares it with the baseline score (BL).BL is the precision of the system with only the de-fault sense.
The tables also show the number ofsense which English prepositions can take on thetarget side.
Table 1 and Table 2 show English-Hindi and English-Telugu results respectively.The implemented system gives very promisingresults.
Certain prepositions give comparably lowprecision.
The reasons for the inappropriate senseselection are discussed in the next section.
TheEnglish-Telugu results (Table 2)  show samesystem precision and BL for some preposition (?in?and ?to?).
This is because these prepositions haveless number of sense on the target side and all theinstances found in the test data had the defaultsense.3.2 Error analysisThe errors made by the system were analyzed andthe major reasons for inappropriate sense selectionwere;(a) Noise generated by WordNet,(b) Special constructions,(c) Metonymy,(d) Ambiguous sentences,(e) Presence of very general constraints.The problem of noise generation by WordNetsometimes leads to surprising and unexpectedsense selection; this is because in WordNet a nounor verb will have multiple sense, and each of thesesenses will have various levels of hypernym syn-sets, so, while finding various concepts/features(specified by the rule for a preposition) we need tolook at each one of these senses.
We need to dothis because we currently don?t have the sense in-formation.
So, an inappropriate sense might some-times satisfy the constraint(s) and result in inap-propriate selection.
The solution for this will obvi-ously be to identify the correct sense of modi-fier/modified prior to getting its semantic propertyfrom the WordNet.There are certain constructions in which thehead noun of the PP is a pronoun, which refersback to a noun.
For us this will create a problem, insuch cases we will first need to get the referent56noun and then apply the constraints on it, take thefollowing example;(10) The rate at which these reactions occur isknown as rate of metabolism.In the above example, the head noun of the PP(at which) refers to the noun (rate) on which weneed to apply the constraints.
At present thecoreference information is not available to us,therefore in such cases the algorithm fails to givethe correct output.The other reason for failure was the ambiguityof the sentence itself which could be interpreted invarious ways, like the example below;(11) Andamaan should go to India.The above sentence can be interpreted (andtranslated) in two ways, the hindi translations forthe two interpretation are;(11a) ?andamaan    indiaa  ko   jaanaa  chahiye??Andamaan?
?India?
?to?
?go?
?should?India should get Andaman.
(11b) ?andamaan   ko   indiaa   jaanaa  chahiye??Andamaan?
?to?
?India?
?visit?
?should?Andaman should visit India.In (11a) we get the sense that thepossesion/control of ?Andamaan?
should go to?India?, and in (11b) it is ?Andamaan?
(thegovernment of ?Andamaan?)
which is going to?India?
(the government of India), as in, The UnitedStates should go to UK, also in (11b) we can have?Andamaan?
as somebodys?
name, as in, Ramshould go to India.
In such cases we failed to getthe appropriate translation of the preposition as itin turn depends on the correct interpretation of thewhole sentence.
Ambiguity of numerals in asentence is yet another case which lead to faliure,like the following example;(12) At 83, Vajpayee is overweight.In the above sentence, the number 83 can eithermean this persons?
(Vajpayee) age or his weight.The target side translation takes differentpreposition sense for these two interpretation.Hindi takes para and in Telugu ?at?
is not-translated when we treat 83 as weight, and whentreated as age, we get mem and lo/ki in Hindi andTelugu respectively.We found that certain prepositions occur in largenumber of metonymical usage, like, ?with?
and?at?.
The constraints in a rule have been formulatedfor the general usage and not the extended usage ofa given word.
The example below shows one suchinstance;(13) Great bowlers spend hours after hours atthe nets.While looking in WordNet for the varioussenses of ?net?
not a single sense matches with thekind of usage in which ?net?
is used in the abovesentence.Certain rules for some of the preposition werefound to be very general, the low performance of?for?
and ?to?
in telugu and hindi respectively aremainly due to this reason.
In general, formulatingrules (English-Hindi) for preposition ?to?
was verydifficult.
This was because ?to?
can have around 10senses in Hindi.
The rules with very generalconstraints tend to satisfy cases where they shouldhave failed.
One has to revisit them and revisethem.4 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper we described an approach to selectthe appropriate sense for a preposition from anEnglish to Indian language MT perspective, wediscussed the issues involved in the task, we ex-plained the steps to achieve the required task;which are, semantic and context extraction, andsense selection.
We reported the performance ofthe system, and showed that our approach givespromising results.
We also discussed the identifiedproblems during the error analysis; such as noisegeneration by WordNet.One of the pertinent tasks for the future wouldbe to come up with a solution to reduce the noisegenerated by WordNet.
The scope of rule file interms of handling more prepositions needs to bebroadened.
We would like to extend this work tohandle complex preposition.
Finally, we would liketo explore if ML techniques can be combined withthe rule base to exploit the benefits of both the ap-proaches.57ReferencesYukiko Sasaki Alam.
2004.
Decision Trees for SenseDisambiguation of Prepositions: Case of Over.
InHLT/NAACL-04.Marija M. Brala.
2000.
Understanding and translating(spatial) prepositions: an exercise in cognitive se-mantics for lexicographic purposes.Joseph Emonds.
1985.
A unified theory of syntacticcategories.
Dordrecht: Foris.Gilles Fauconnier.
1994.
Mental spaces.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.M.
Grimaud.
1988.
Toponyms, Prepositions, and Cog-native Maps in English and French, Journal ofAmerican Society of Geolinguistics.Ebba Gustavii.
2005.
Target Language Preposition Se-lection - an Experiment with Transformation-basedLearning and Aligned Bilingual Data.
In Proceedingsof EAMT 2005.Sven Hartrumpf, Hermann Helbig and Rainer Osswald.2005.
Semantic Interpretation of Prepositions forNLP Applications.
In EACL 2006 Workshop: ThirdACL-SIGSEM Workshop on PrepositionsA.
Herskovits.
1986.
Language and Spatial Cognition,An Interdisciplinary Study of Prepositions in English.Cambridge University Press.Cliffort Hill.
1982.
Up/down, front/back, left/right.
Acontrastive study of Hausa and English.
In Weissenborn and Klein, 13-42.Ray Jackendoff.
1977.
The architecture of the language.Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Nathalie Japkowicz and Janyce M. Wiebe.
1991.
A Sys-tem For Translating Locative Preposition From Eng-lish Into French.
In Proc.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.George Lakoff and Mark Johnson.
1980.
Metaphors welive by.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Beth Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alterna-tions.
Chicago/London: The University of Chicago-Press.George A. Miller.
1990.
WordNet: An online lexicaldatabase.
International Journal of Lexicography.Sudip Kumar Naskar and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.
2005.Handling of Prepositions in English to Bengali Ma-chine Translation.
In EACL 2006 Workshop: ThirdACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions.Geoffrey Pullum and Rodney Huddleston.
2002.
Prepo-sitions and prepositional phrases.
In Huddleston andPullum (eds.
), 597-661.Gisa Rauh.
1993.
On the grammar of lexical andnonlexical prepositions in English.
In Zelinskiy-Wibbelt (eds.
), 99-150.Patrick Saint-Dizier and Gloria Vazquez.
2001.
A com-positional framework for prepositions.
In IWCS4,Tilburg, Springer, lecture notes, p. 165-179.Patrick Saint-Dizier.
2005.
PrepNet: A framework fordescribing prepositions: Preliminary investigation re-sults.
In Proc.
of IWCS 6, Tilburg.Joseph M. Sopena, Agusti LLoberas and Joan L.Moliner.
1998.
A connectionist approach to preposi-tional phrase attachment for real world texts.
In COL-ING-ACL ?98, 1233-1237.T.
Tezuka, R. Lee, H. Takakura, and Y. Kambayashi.2001.
Web-Based Inference Rules for ProcessingConceptual Geo-graphical Relationships.
In Proc.
ofthe 2nd Int.
Conf.
on Web Information Systems Engi-neering, The 1st Int.
Workshop on Web GeographicalInformation Systems.Arturo Trujillo.
1992.
Locations in the machine transla-tion of prepositional phrases.
In Proc.
TMI-92.58
