Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluations (SemEval-2007), pages 484?487,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsWVALI: Temporal Relation Identification by Syntactico-Semantic AnalysisGeorgiana Pus?cas?u??
?Research Group in Computational Linguistics ?Department of Software and Computing SystemsUniversity of Wolverhampton, UK University of Alicante, Spaingeorgie@wlv.ac.ukAbstractThis paper reports on the participationof University of Wolverhampton andUniversity of Alicante at the SemEval-2007TempEval evaluation exercise.
TempEvalconsisted of three tasks involving theidentification of event-time and event-eventtemporal relations.
We participated inall three tasks with TICTAC (Syntactico-Semantic Temporal Annotation Cluster), asystem comprising both knowledge basedand statistical techniques.
Our systemachieved the highest strict and relaxedscores for tasks A and B, and the highestrelaxed score for task C.1 IntroductionTempEval comprises novel tasks concerned with theidentification of temporal relations between eventsand temporal expressions (TEs).
The evaluationexercise includes three tasks testing the capabilityof participating systems to relate an event and aTE located in the same sentence (task A), an eventand the TE representing the Document CreationTime (DCT) (task B), and two events located inneighbouring sentences (task C).
We tackle all taskswith a mix of knowledge based and statisticaltechniques incorporated in our system TICTAC.Our approach for discovering intrasententialtemporal relations relies on sentence-level syntactictrees and on a bottom-up propagation of thetemporal relations between syntactic constituents,by employing syntactical and lexical properties ofthe constituents and the relations between them.A temporal reasoning mechanism is afterwardsemployed to relate the two targeted temporal entitiesto their closest ancestor and then to each other.Conflict resolution heuristics are also applied.In establishing a temporal relation between anevent and the Document Creation Time (DCT), thetemporal expressions directly or indirectly linkedto that event are first analysed and, if no relationis detected, the temporal relation with the DCT ispropagated top-down in the syntactic tree.Inter-sentence temporal relations are discoveredby first applying several heuristics that involve thetemporal expressions and the tensed verbs of the twoclauses containing the main events to be temporallyrelated, and then by using statistical data extractedfrom the training corpus that revealed the mostfrequent temporal relation between two tensed verbscharacterised by the tense information.This paper presents the techniques employed forthe three TempEval tasks (Sections 2, 3 and 4correspond to the tasks A, B and C).
The evaluationresults are presented and discussed in Section 5.Conclusions are drawn in the last section.2 Task ATask A at TempEval involved the automaticidentification of the temporal relations holdingbetween events and all temporal expressionsappearing in the same sentence.
The events and TEswere annotated in the source in accordance with theTimeML standard (Pustejovsky et al, 2003a).For all tasks, the set of temporal relations to bepredicted includes: OVERLAP, BEFORE, AFTER,484BEFORE-OR-OVERLAP, OVERLAP-OR-AFTERand VAGUE.Figure 1 depicts the processing stages involvedin the identification of the temporal relation giventhe event, the TE and the sentence they arein.
The sentence is first annotated with morpho-syntactic and functional dependency information byemploying Conexor?s FDG Parser (Tapanainen andJaervinen, 1997).Figure 1: Task A processing stagesA clause splitter previously developed by theauthor is then used to detect clause boundariesand to establish the dependencies between theresulting clauses by relying on formal indicatorsof coordination and subordination and, in theirabsence, on the functional dependency relationpredicted by the FDG parser.
On the basis of themorpho-syntactic information we identify in eachclause a set of temporally-relevant constituents (verbphrase VP, noun phrases NPs, prepositional phrasesPPs, non-finite verbs and adverbial TEs).The identified constituents and the syntactic treeof the corresponding clause are afterwards employedin a recursive bottom-up process of finding thetemporal order between directly linked constituents.Each constituent is linked only with the constituent itsyntactically depends on with one of the predefinedtemporal relations.
The temporal relation is decidedon the basis of heuristics that involve parameterssuch as: semantic properties of the two constituents?heads (whether their root forms denote reportingor aspectual start/end events), the type of thetwo constituents, the syntactic relation holdingbetween them, presence of temporal signals (e.g.prepositions like before, after, until), the tense ofthe clause VP and the temporal relation between anyclause TE and the DCT.
This process will result ina path of temporal relations connecting every clauseconstituent with the clause VP.Each pair of clauses involved in a dependencyrelation are then temporally related by meansof their VPs?
tenses, of the dependency relationbetween them and of their property of beingreporting events or not.
The underlying hypothesisis that the clause binding elements and the tensesof the two VPs provide a natural way to establishtemporal relations between two syntactically relatedclauses.
For example, in the case of an if -clause,its temporal relation with the superordinate clauseis BEFORE.
In this way, each syntactic tree branchconnecting a non-root node with its father getstagged with a temporal relation (Figure 2).Figure 2: Temporally tagged parse treeThe final stage involves the detection of thetemporal relation between a certain event and acertain TE, both situated in the sentence processedas above.
The two entities are first tested todetermine if they comply with world knowledgeaxioms that would predict their temporal relation.For example if the TE refers to a date that is previousto the DCT, and the event is a Future tensed verb,then the event-TE temporal relation is obviouslyAFTER.
If no axiom applies to the two entities, atemporal reasoning mechanism is employed to relatethe two targeted temporal entities to their closestancestor and then to each other.
If conflicts occur inrelating one entity to the ancestor, priority is givento the relation linked to the entity, but if the conflictis between the event-ancestor and the TE-ancestortemporal relations, the TE-ancestor relation wins.4853 Task BTask B consisted of the identification of temporalrelations between events and the DCT.
Theprocessing stages for solving task B follow thecourse of the ones involved in task A, with theonly difference that the inter-clause and intra-clause temporal ordering modules no longer orderclauses/constituents with respect to each other andin a bottom-up manner, but with respect to theDCT going top-down through the syntactic tree andemploying the knowledge gained at task A about therelative ordering between same clause constituents.Whenever establishing a temporal relationbetween a constituent and the DCT, the TEs directlylinked to it or situated in the same clause with it arefirst analysed and, if no relation can be detected, thetemporal relation with the DCT is propagated top-down in the syntactic tree using the father node?stemporal relation with the DCT and the temporalrelation between the two constituents.
For clauseVPs, the relation with the DCT is found on thebasis of the VP tense, the superordinate clause?s VPtense, the syntactic relation connecting the clausewith its superordinate and the relation between thesuperordinate clause?s VP and the DCT.4 Task CFor task C each pair of events signalled by themain verbs of two consecutive sentences needs to betemporally linked.
This time, besides the events andTEs, the main verb in the matrix clause (matrix verb)of each sentence is also annotated in the documents.Figure 3: Task C processing stagesFigure 3 illustrates the task C processingflow.
The two sentences are first parsed usingConexor?s FDG Parser and then clause boundariesare identified.
Due to the fact that we have noticedcases when the annotated matrix verb was not thecentral verb of the main clause, we have consideredas matrix verb the tensed verb of the clause includingthe annotated matrix verb.All TEs situated in the same clause with eachmatrix verb are investigated and if through these TEsand the relations between them and the matrix verbswe are able to predict a temporal relation then thisrelation represents the system output.At the next stage the semantic properties of thetwo matrix verbs are checked to detect whether theydenote reporting events or not.If both matrix verbs are reporting events then theirtense information is used to predict a relation.If only one matrix verb is a reporting event, thenwe look at the TEs linked to the other matrix verbto see if we can predict the relation to the DCT.The assumption is that a reporting event is locatedtemporally simultaneous with the DCT and, if arelation between the other event and the DCT canbe established by means of surrounding TEs, thenthis is the relation providing us the output.
If thenon-reporting event can not be positioned in timewith respect to the DCT by analysing surroundingTEs, then its relation with the DCT will be the oneestablished by solving task B.The most complicated case is the one in whichboth matrix verbs are non-reporting events.
Thiscase is solved by extracting statistics from thetraining documents, statistics involving the numberof occurrences of a certain pair of verb tenses with acertain predicted temporal relation.
The extractedstatistics are then reconciled for tense pairs withmore possible temporal relations, in the sense thatif the first two most frequent possibilities havevery similar frequencies, then the reconciliation isperformed according to Table 1.
In this manner atemporal relation is associated to each tense pairand, consequently, the temporal relation between thetwo matrix verbs is identified.5 ResultsThe test corpus consists of 20 articles fromTimeBank (Pustejovsky et al, 2003b).
Theperformance is assessed with three evaluation486Temporal Relation Temporal Relation Reconciled RelationOVERLAP BEFORE-OR-OVERLAP BEFORE-OR-OVERLAPOVERLAP BEFORE BEFORE-OR-OVERLAPOVERLAP OVERLAP-OR-AFTER OVERLAP-OR-AFTEROVERLAP AFTER OVERLAP-OR-AFTERBEFORE BEFORE-OR-OVERLAP BEFORE-OR-OVERLAPAFTER OVERLAP-OR-AFTER OVERLAP-OR-AFTERVAGUE any relation any relationTable 1: Reconciliation between temporal relationsmetrics (precision, recall, f-measure) and twoscoring schemes (strict, relaxed).
The strict scoringscheme counts only exact matches, while the relaxedone gives credit to partial semantic matches too.The following three tables illustrate for eachtask the results our team obtained at TempEval,the baseline, the minimum and maximum valuesachieved by participating systems.For each of the three tasks, the baseline isestablished by the most frequent temporal relationencountered in that task?s training data.
In the caseof task A the most frequent temporal relation presentin the training data is OVERLAP, in the case of taskB BEFORE and for task C OVERLAP.TASK A STRICT SCORE RELAXED SCOREP R F P R FWVALI 0.62 0.62 0.62 0.64 0.64 0.64BASELINE 0.49 0.49 0.49 0.51 0.51 0.51MIN 0.53 0.25 0.34 0.60 0.30 0.41MAX 0.62 0.62 0.62 0.64 0.64 0.64Table 2: Results for task AOur system achieved the highest strict and relaxedf-measure scores in tasks A and B, with the task Bresults substantially above the baseline (18%).TASK B STRICT SCORE RELAXED SCOREP R F P R FWVALI 0.80 0.80 0.80 0.81 0.81 0.81BASELINE 0.62 0.62 0.62 0.62 0.62 0.62MIN 0.73 0.57 0.66 0.74 0.62 0.71MAX 0.80 0.80 0.80 0.84 0.81 0.81Table 3: Results for task BTASK C STRICT SCORE RELAXED SCOREP R F P R FWVALI 0.54 0.54 0.54 0.66 0.66 0.66BASELINE 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.46 0.46 0.46MIN 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.56 0.56 0.56MAX 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.66 0.66 0.66Table 4: Results for task CDespite the challenges posed by task C, oursystem achieved the best relaxed score among allparticipants, as well as a high strict score.6 ConclusionThis paper presented our approach and participationin the TempEval evaluation exercise involvingthe identification of event-time and event-eventtemporal relations.
We propose an approachmainly based on syntactical properties, combiningknowledge-based and statistical techniques, allincluded in our automatic temporal annotationsystem TICTAC.
Our system participated in all threeTempEval tasks.When compared to the other systems participatingin this competition, we have obtained the highestresults both in the strict and relaxed scoring schemesin the case of tasks A and B, as well as in therelaxed scoring scheme for task C. Therefore, weconclude that the proposed approach is appropriatefor the TempEval tasks and we plan to find ways ofimproving the system?s performance.Several future work directions emerge naturallyfrom a first look and shallow analysis of the results.Firstly, we would like to carry out an in-depth studyof other possible correlations between syntax andtemporality.
Secondly, we aim at exploiting apartfrom the syntax of the analysed text, more of itssemantics.AcknowledgmentsThe author would like to thank Patricio MartinezBarco, Andres Montoyo and Constantin Orasan fortheir advice and support.ReferencesJ.
Pustejovsky, J. Castano, R. Ingria, R. Sauri,R.
Gaizauskas, A. Setzer, and G. Katz.
2003a.TimeML: Robust Specification of Event and TemporalExpressions in Text.
In Proceedings of the FifthInternational Workshop on Computational Semantics(IWCS-5).J.
Pustejovsky, P. Hanks, R. Sauri, A.
See, R. Gaizuaskas,A.
Setzer, D. Radev, B. Sundheim, D. Day, L. Ferro,and M. Lazo.
2003b.
The TIMEBANK Corpus.
InProceedings of Corpus Linguistics 2003.P.
Tapanainen and T. Jaervinen.
1997.
A non?projective dependency parser.
In Proceedings ofthe 5th Conference of Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, ACL.487
