Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on Important Unresolved Matters, pages 104?110,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Amharic Stemmer : Reducing Words to their Citation FormsAtelach Alemu ArgawDepartment of Computer andSystems SciencesStockholm University/KTH, Swedenatelach@dsv.su.seLars AskerDepartment of Computer andSystems SciencesStockholm University/KTH, Swedenasker@dsv.su.seAbstractStemming is an important analysis step ina number of areas such as natural lan-guage processing (NLP), information re-trieval (IR), machine translation(MT) andtext classification.
In this paper we presentthe development of a stemmer for Amharicthat reduces words to their citation forms.Amharic is a Semitic language with rich andcomplex morphology.
The application ofsuch a stemmer is in dictionary based crosslanguage IR, where there is a need in thetranslation step, to look up terms in a ma-chine readable dictionary (MRD).
We applya rule based approach supplemented by oc-currence statistics of words in a MRD andin a 3.1M words news corpus.
The mainpurpose of the statistical supplements is toresolve ambiguity between alternative seg-mentations.
The stemmer is evaluated onAmharic text from two domains, news arti-cles and a classic fiction text.
It is shown tohave an accuracy of 60% for the old fash-ioned fiction text and 75% for the news arti-cles.1 IntroductionStemming is the process of reducing morphologi-cal variants of a word into a common form.
Formorphologically less complex languages like Eng-lish or Swedish, this usually involves removal of suf-fixes.
For languages like Amharic or Arabic, thathave a much richer morphology, this process alsoinvolves dealing with prefixes, infixes and deriva-tives in addition to the suffixes.
Stemming is widelyused in IR, with the assumption that morphologi-cal variants represent similar meaning.
It is appliedduring indexing and is used to reduce the vocab-ulary size, and it is used during query processingin order to ensure similar representation as that ofthe document collection.
In cross language infor-mation retrieval (CLIR) where a query is typicallyposed in one language, and the document collectionfrom where the documents are retrieved is in anotherlanguage, some form of translation is required.
Forlow resource languages such as Amharic, machinereadable dictionaries (MRDs) play a crucial role byenabling look up of translations of query terms.
Inmost cases such MRDs have all entries representedonly by their citation form.
Thus in CLIR applica-tions, it is of outmost importance that query termsin the source language are reduced to the exact cor-responding citation form as presented in the MRD.In this paper we address this particular problem ofstemming Amharic words and reducing them to theircitation forms for CLIR applications.The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-lows.
Section 2 provides a background informationabout the Amharic language, followed by relatedwork in Section 3 and a brief description of Amharicmorphology in Section 4.
Section 5 presents the re-sources utilized, while Section 6 deals with a de-tailed description of the stemmer.
In section 7 wedescribe experiments conducted to evaluate the per-formance of the stemmer and discuss the obtainedresults.
We give concluding remarks in Section 8.1042 The Amharic LanguageAmharic is the official working language of the fed-eral government of the Federal Democratic Repub-lic of Ethiopia and is estimated to be spoken bywell over 20 million people as a first or second lan-guage.
Amharic is the second most spoken Semiticlanguage in the world (after Arabic).
It is todayprobably the second largest language in Ethiopia (af-ter Oromo, a Cushitic language) and possibly oneof the five largest languages on the African conti-nent.
Following the Constitution drafted in 1993,Ethiopia is divided into nine fairly independent re-gions, each with it?s own nationality language.
How-ever, Amharic is the language for country-wide com-munication and was also for a long period the prin-cipal literal language and medium of instruction inprimary and secondary schools of the country, whilehigher education is carried out in English.
Despiteit?s wide speaker population, computational linguis-tic resources for Amharic, as most ?low resource?languages, are very limitted and almost non existent.Written Amharic uses a unique script which hasoriginated from the Ge?ez alphabet (the liturgicallanguage of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church).
Writ-ten Ge?ez can be traced back to at least the 4thcentury A.D.
The first versions of the language in-cluded consonants only, while the characters in laterversions represent consonant-vowel (CV) phonemepairs.
In the modern Ethiopic script each syllablepattern comes in seven different forms (called or-ders), reflecting the seven vowel sounds.
The firstorder is the basic form; the other orders are derivedfrom it by more or less regular modifications in-dicating the different vowels.
There are 33 basicforms, giving 7*33 syllable patterns (syllographs),or fidels.
Two of the base forms represent vow-els in isolation, but the rest are for consonants (orsemi-vowels classed as consonants) and thus cor-respond to CV pairs, with the first order being thebase symbol with no explicit vowel indicator.
Thewriting system also includes four (incomplete, five-character) orders of labialised velars and 24 addi-tional labialised consonants.
In total, there are 275fidels, but not all the letters of the Amharic scriptare strictly necessary for the pronunciation patternsof the spoken language; some were simply inheritedfrom Ge?ez without having any semantic or phoneticdistinction in modern Amharic.
There are manycases where numerous symbols are used to denotea single phoneme, as well as words that have ex-tremely different orthographic form and slightly dis-tinct phonetics, but with the same meaning.
So are,for example, most labialised consonants basicallyredundant, and there are actually only 39 context-independent phonemes (monophones): of the 275symbols of the script, only about 233 remain if theredundant ones are removed.
The script also has aunique set of punctuation marks and digits.
UnlikeArabic or Hebrew, the language is written from leftto right.The Amharic writing system uses multitudes ofways to denote compound words and there is noagreed upon spelling standard for compounds.
Asa result of this - and of the size of the country lead-ing to vast dialectal dispersion - lexical variation andhomophony is very common.3 Related workPioneering the work on morphological analysis ofAmharic verbs, Abiyot (Bayou, 2000) designedand implemented a prototype word parser forAmharic verbs and their derivation.
He designeda knowledge-based system that parses verbs, andnouns derived from verbs.
He used root pattern andaffixes to determine the lexical and inflectional cat-egory of the words.
He tested his system on a lim-ited number of words (200 verbs and 200 nouns) andthe result showed that 86% of the verbs and 84% ofthe nouns were recognized correctly.
Another proto-type morphological analyzer for Amharic was devel-oped by Tesfaye Bayu (Bayu, 2002) where he usedan unsupervised learning approach based on prob-abilistic models to extract morphemic components(prefix, stem and suffix) to construct a morpholog-ical dictionary.
He also investigated an approachwhereby he applied the principle of Auto segmentalPhonology to identify morphemic component of astem such as consonantal root, vocalic melodies andCV-templates.
The first system was able to parsesuccessfully 87% of words of the test data (433 of500 words).
This result corresponds to a precisionof 95% and a recall of 90%.
Tested with 255 stems,the second system identified the morphemic compo-nentes of 241 (or 94% of the) stems correctly.105Fissaha and Haller (Fissaha and Haller, 2003) dis-cuss the morphology of Amharic verbs in the contextof Machine Translation and present an implemeta-tion of a morphological analyser for Amharic us-ing Xerox Finite State Tools (XFST).
The differentclassification shemes for Amharic verbs that havebeen forwarded are discussed followed by the impli-cation such classifications have on the implementa-tion strategy.
They claim that morphological analy-sis for Amharic with XFST can handle most of themorphologcal phenomena except some derivationprocesses which involve simultaneous application ofboth stem interdigitation and reduplication.
Sabaand Gibbon (Amsalu and Gibbon, 2005) extend theXFST implementation of Amharic morpholgy to in-clude all word categories.
Testing with 1620 wordstext from an Amharic bible, they report recall levelsof 94% for verbs, 85% for nouns, and 88% for adjec-tives while they report precisions of 94% for nouns,81% for adjectives, 91% for adverbs, and 54% forverbs, at the above specified recall levels.A more recent work that applies ConditionalRandom Fields to segment and part of speech tagAmharic words is done by Fissaha (Adafre, 2005).He reports an accuracy of 84% for the word segmen-tation.
The work deals with bound morphemes ofprepositions, conjunctions, relative markers, auxil-iary verbs, nagation marker and coordinate conjunc-tion, but leaves out other bound morphemes such asdefinite article, agreement features such as genderand number, case markers, etc, and considers themto be part of the word.
The best result (84%) is ob-tained by using character, morphological and lexicalfeatures.There has been a work done by Alemayehu andWillet (Alemayehu and Willett, 2002) which inves-tigates the effectiveness of stemming in informationretrieval for Amharic.
They compare performanceof word-based, stem-based, and root-based retrievalof 40 Amharic queries against 548 Amharic docu-ments, and show better recall levels for stem androot based retrieval over word based, but they don?tprovide information on the precision of these exper-iments.All the above mentioned works attempt to addressthe need to develop a morphological analyser forAmharic, and show that there has been a great dealof effort put in the design and implementation ofeach system.
Although that is the case, none of themare publicly available, and/or are limitted in someway.
For our current task of stemming for the pur-pose of CLIR dictionary lookup, full fledged mor-phological analysis is most likely an overkill sincewe only need citation forms of words, and precisionplays a very important role.4 Amharic MorphologyAmharic has a rich verb morphology which is basedon triconsonantal roots with vowel variants describ-ing modifications to, or supplementary detail andvariants of the root form.
A significantly large partof the vocabulary consists of verbs, which exhibitdifferent morphosyntactic properties based on thearrangment of the consonant-vowel patterns.
For ex-ample, the root sbr, meaning ?to break?
can havethe perfect form sa?bba?r with the pattern CVC-CVC1, imperfect form sa?br with the pattern CVCC,gerund form sa?br with the pattern CVCC, imper-ative form sba?r with the pattern CCVC, causativeform assa?bba?r with the pattern as-CVCCVC, pas-sive form ta?sa?bba?r with the pattern ta?-CVCCVC,etc.
Subject, gender, number, etc are also indicatedas bound morphemes on the verb, as well as objectsand possesion markers, mood and tense, benefica-tive, malfactive, transitive, dative, negative, etc, pro-ducing a complex verb morphology.Amharic nouns can be inflected for gender, num-ber, definiteness, and case, although gender is usu-ally neutral.
Adjectives behave in the same way asnouns, taking similar inflections, while prepositionsare mostly bound morphemes prefixed to nouns.
Thedefinte article in Amharic is also a bound morpheme,and attaches to the end of a noun.
We have given avery brief description of some aspects of Amharicmorphology, detailed information can be found in(Bender, 1968), (Bender and Fulas, 1978), (Yimam,1995).We have constructed 65 rules based on the entireAmharic morphology for the purpose of this study.The rules vary from simple affixation rules to eachword category to allowed combinations of prefixesand suffixes for each word category and set of af-fixes.1C stands for consonants and V for vowels1065 Resources5.1 The CorporaWe have utilized three different sources of textfor the development of the stemmer and the ex-periments.
The first is a collection of news ar-ticles from an online news repository, EthiopianNews Headlines (ENH), which is available athttp://www.ethiozena.net.
This corpus consists of3.1 million words of Amharic news text in a littlemore than 10,000 articles.
This corpus was usedto collect word frequency and prefix and suffix sta-tistics i.e.
the number of times an affix occurs at-tached to a known stem, and the occurence sta-tistics was used to disambiguate between alterna-tive segmantations of a given word.
The secondtext source is another Ethiopian news agency, WaltaInformation Center (WIC) which can be found athttp://www.waltainfo.com.
We used news itemsdownloaded from WIC to evaluate the stemmer onindependent news texts from another source.
Thethird text, which was also used for evaluation, isfrom the Amharic novel ?Fikir Iske Meqabir?
(FIM)by the renowned Ethiopian author Dr. Hadis Ale-mayehu.
This text (FIM) was selected for the eval-uation in order to see how well the stemmer wouldperform on a text that differed substantially in stylefrom the news collection.5.2 The DictionariesThe simplest and most straight forward way for thestemmer to verify that a suggested segmentation iscorrect is to try to look up the stem in a dictionary.For this purpose we used three different dictionar-ies, an Amharic - English, an Amharic - French, andan Amharic - Amharic dictionary.
The Amharic -English dictionary, by Dr. Amsalu Aklilu, contains15 000 Amharic words with their English transla-tions (Aklilu, 1981).
The Amharic - French dic-tionary (Abebe, 2004) has 12 000 Amharic entrieswhile the Amharic - Amharic dictionary by KesatieBirhan has 56 000 entries (Tesema, ).
All threedictionaries were made available to us in electronicform, transliterated to SERA and then merged andrepresented in a form suitable for the stemmer.5.3 TransliterationThe dictionaries and all Amharic news texts men-tioned above are published using Ethiopic script andusing a variety of fonts, some of which are not Uni-code compliant.
In order to simplify the analysisand to have a unified representation of the texts, wetransliterated all Amharic texts into SERA which isa system for ASCII representation of Ethiopic char-acters (Firdyiwek and Yacob, 1997).The transliteration was done using a file conver-sion utility called g2 which was made available tous by Daniel Yacob of the Ge?ez Frontier Founda-tion (http://www.ethiopic.org/).6 The StemmerThe stemmer first creates a list consisting of allpossible segmentations of the word that is to bestemmed.
In a second step, each such segmenta-tion is then verified by matching each candidate stemagainst the machine readable dictionary.
If no stemmatches the dictionary, the stemmer will modfy thestem and redo the matching.
If more than one stemmatches, the most likely stem will be selected afterdisambiguating between the candidate stems basedon statistical and other properties of the stems.
Inthe cases when exactly one stem matches the dictio-nary then that segmentation will be presented as theoutput from the stemmer.6.1 SegmentationFor each new word the stemmer first creates a listof possible segmentations by applying a list of mor-phological rules for allowed prefixes and suffixes.
Inthis way, the word Indeminorewnawould for ex-ample be segmented into the following 9 differentways:(1) Indeminorewna(2) Indeminorew -na(3) Indeminore -w -na(4) Inde- minorewna(5) Inde- minorew -na(6) Inde- minore -w -na(7) Inde- mi- norewna(8) Inde- mi- norew -na(9) Inde- mi- nore -w -na107For each of the 9 possible segmentations, the re-maining stem is then matched against the (merged)three dictionaries.
In this case, the only one that isfound as entry in the dictionary is nore, so alterna-tive 9 is selected as the most likely segmentation ofthe word.6.2 DisambiguationIf more than one of the candidate stems are matchedin the dictionary, those segmentations that have astem that matches an entry in the dictionary areranked according to length and frequency of thestem.
The longest stem that have a match in thedictionary is selected and if more than one stem ofequal length matches the dictionary then the stemthat is more frequent is preferred before the less fre-quent.
The frequency score is based on how oftenthe stem occurs in the ENH corpus described above.The word beteyazew would for example be seg-mented in the following ways:(1) beteyazew(2) beteyaze -w(3) beteyaz -e -w(4) be- teyazew(5) be- teyaze -w(6) be- teyaz -e -w(7) be- te- yazew(8) be- te- yaze -w(9) be- te- yaz -e -wIn this case the three stems teyaze (5), yaze(8) and yaz (9) all have matching entries in the dic-tionary but teyaze is selected as the most likelystem since it is the longest.6.3 ModificationFor approximately 30% of the words, the stem doesnot match the dictionary.
In these cases, the stemwill be slightly modifed and a second attempt tomatch the entries in the dictionary will be done.
Forexample the word IndegeleSut should correctlybe segmented into Inde- geleSe -u -t. Withthe approach described so far, the segmentationbased on prefixes and suffixes would yield the stemgeleS which will not have a match in the dictio-nary.
Instead, for the dictionary lookup to succeed,we first need to add the vowel e at the end of thestem.
For the word astawqWal which should cor-rectly segment into astaweqe -W -al we willfirst have to insert e both between w and q and againafter q to reach the correct form of the stem.
Thisprocess of modifying the stem by adding vowels, isapplied to the candidate stems if no matches by theunmodifed stems are made in the dictionary.
Forthe current implementation of the stemmer, this isdone by inserting one of the vowels ?e?
or ?a?
be-tween the consonants if the unmatched stem con-tains two consecutive consonants, or after the lastconsonant if the stem ends in a consonant.
If exactlyone of the modifed stems will match the dictionary,then that segmentation will be ranked as the mostlikely.
If more than one modifed stem matches, thenthe longest will be selected.
For the words wherethis modification of the stem is done, approximately30% will successfully match their correct entry inthe dicionary while 20% make an incorrect matchand the remaining 50% will not match the dictionaryat all.6.4 Out-of-dictionary termsFinally, the approximately 15% of the words that donot have any stem that matches entries in the dic-tionary (even after the modifiaction) will be rankedaccording to the length of the stem and the numberof times that the stem occurs in the ENH corpus.
Inthis case, it is the shorter stems that are preferred.For example the word bekomixnu will have fourpossible segmentations, none of which occurs in thedictionary.
(1) bekomixnu(2) bekomixn -u(3) be- komixnu(4) be- komixn -uIn this case, alternative 4, komixn is the short-est stem that occurs as a unique word in the ref-erence corpus and is therefor selected as the mostlikely segmentation before either one of the alterna-tive stems bekomixnu, bekomixn or komixnu.1087 Experimental EvaluationIn order to evaluate the performance of the stem-mer, we selected the first 1503 words (= 1000 uniquewords) from the WIC corpus described above.
Wealso selected a 470 words long text from the book?Fikir Iske Meqabir?
to get a text with 300 uniquewords.On the WIC data the stemmer had an overall ac-curay of 76.9 %.
For 48 % of the words, the stem-mer found exactly one segmentation with a stem thatwas matching the dictionary, and for these wordsit had an accuracy of 83.75 %.
For 36.3 % of thewords, the stemmer found more than one segmenta-tion that matched the dictionary and therefor neededto do additional disambiguation between alternativesegmentations.
For these words, the stemmer hadan accuracy of 69.1 %.
For the remaining 15.7 % ofthe words, the stemmer found no match in the dictio-nary for any of the possible segmentations.
For thesewords the stemmer had an accuracy of 73.9 %.
Inthe cases when there is only one match in the dictio-nary, the extra sources for error that are introducedby having to disambiguate between alternative seg-mentations are avoided and hence the stemmer hasbest accuracy for those words that have exactly onesegmentation with a stem that will match the dictio-nary.For the 300 unique words from Fikir IskeMeqabir, the stemmer had an overall accuracy of60.0 % In a similar fashion as for the WIC data, thestemmer performed best on the subset of words forwhich there was exacly one match in the dictionary.For this group the performance was 68.8 % correctbut the overall accuracy was lowered by the fact thatthe stemmer performed worse on the words that hadeither more than one match, or no match at all in thedictionary.
These numbers were 54.8 % and 42.1 %respectively.8 ConclusionWe have presented the design and development ofan Amharic stemmer which reduces words to theircitation forms for the purpose of dictionary lookupin CLIR.
Given the resource constraints we have,and the specificity of the stemmer, the overall per-formance could be acceptable, but needs further im-provment.
The stemming depends highly on wordentries in the three MRDs for verification purposes.These MRDs altogether consist of a limitted amountof entries, overall 83000, with a very high level ofoverlap, leaving 47176 unique entries.
Although it isnot the largest source of error, it accounts for around15% of the words segmentation decided on corpusstatististics only since they are not found in the dic-tionaries.
We intend to use more dictionaries withthe assumption that there will be a performance in-crease with the increasing number of citation formsto refer to.
On the other hand, increasing the amountof citation forms also will increase the percentageof words that will have more than one match in thedictionaries.
That would lead us to focus on the dis-ambiguation strategy in the future.
So long as themorphological rule exists, we are able to get the cor-rect segmentation for a word in a possible segmen-tations list.
And when we have two or more likelysegmentations that are picked out since they havematching stems in dictionaries, we need to design asmarter way of disambiguation that would take intoaccount contextual information and part of speechtags, etc, in addition to the currently used occurencefrequency approach.Although conducting a full fledged morphologicalanalyser for Amharic is beyond the scope of this pa-per, we would like to note that there is a need to cre-ate a forum for collaboration and exchange amongresearchers involved in developing NLP resourcesfor Amharic and other Semitic languages and orga-nize the considerable effort that is being made indi-vidually.
We also hope that some of the ideas andprocedures that are described in this paper couldbe more generally applicable to other Semitic lan-guages as well.AcknowledgementsThe copyright to the two volumes of the French-Amharic and Amharic-French dictionary (?Dic-tionnaire Francais-Amharique?
and ?DictionnaireAmharique-Francais?)
by Dr Berhanou Abebe andEloi Fiquet is owned by the French Ministry of For-eign Affairs.
We would like to thank the authors andthe French embassy in Addis Ababa for allowing usto use the dictionary in this research.The content of the ?English - Amharic Dictio-nary?
is the intellectual property of Dr Amsalu109Aklilu.
We would like to thank Dr Amsalu as wellas Daniel Yacob of the Geez frontier foundation formaking it possible for us to use the dictionary andother resources in this work.We would also like to thank Ato Negash of WaltaInformation Center for allowing us to use part oftheir news texts in this research.ReferencesBerhanou Abebe.
2004.
Dictionnaire Amharique-Francais.
Shama Books, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.Sisay Fissaha Adafre.
2005.
Part of speech tagging foramharic using conditional random fields.
In Proceed-ings of ACL-2005 Workshop on Computational Ap-proaches to Semitic Languages.Amsalu Aklilu.
1981.
Amharic - English Dictionary.Mega Publishing Enterprise, Ethiopia.Nega Alemayehu and Peter Willett.
2002.
The effective-ness of stemming for information retrieval in amharic.In Short Communication.Saba Amsalu and Dafydd Gibbon.
2005.
Finite statemorphology of amharic.
In Proceedings of RANLP.Abiyot Bayou.
2000.
Design and development of wordparser for amharic language.
Masterthesis, AddisAbeba Univeristy.Tesfaye Bayu.
2002.
Automatic morphological analyser:An experiment using unsupervised and autosegmentalapproach.
Masterthesis, Addis Ababa University.M.
Lionel Bender and Hailu Fulas.
1978.
Amharic verbmorphology.
In East Lansing: Michigan State Univer-sity, African Studies Center.M.
Lionel Bender.
1968.
Amharic Verb Morphology: AGenerative Approach.
Ph.D. thesis, Graduate Schoolof Texas.Yitna Firdyiwek and Daniel Yacob.
1997.
System forethiopic representation in ascii.Sisay Fissaha and Johann Haller.
2003.
Amharic verblexicon in the context of machine translation.
In Actesde la 10e conference TALN, Batz-sur-Mer.Kesatie Birhan Tesema.
YeAmarinja Mezgebe Qalat.Adis Abeba.Baye Yimam.
1995. ye amargna sewasew (AmharicGrammar).
EMPDA.110
