Balto-Slavonic Natural Language Processing 2007, June 29, 2007, pages 75?81,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsDerivational Relations in Czech WordNetKarel PalaFaculty of InformaticsMasaryk University BrnoCzech Republicpala@fi.muni.czDana Hlav?
?kov?Faculty of InformaticsMasaryk University BrnoCzech Republicydana@aurora.fi.muni.czAbstractIn the paper we describe enriching CzechWordNet  with  the  derivational  relationsthat  in  highly  inflectional  languages  likeCzech  form  typical  derivational  nests  (orsubnets).
Derivational relations are mostlyof  semantic  nature  and their  regularity inCzech allows us to add them to the Word-Net alost automatically.
For this purposewe  have  used  the  derivational  version  ofmorphological analyzer Ajka that is able tohandle  the  basic  and  most  productivederivational  relations  in  Czech.
Using  aspecial derivational interface developed inour NLP Lab we have explored the seman-tic nature of the selected noun derivationalsuffixes and established a set of the seman-tically  labeled  derivational  relations  ?presently 14.
We have added them to theCzech WordNet and in this way enriched itwith approx.
30 000 new Czech synsets.
Asimilar enrichment for Princeton WordNethas  been  reported  in  its  recently releasedversion 3.0, we will comment on the partialsimilarities and differences.1 IntroductionWordNets  as  such  represent  huge  semantic  net-works  in  which  the  basic  units  ?
synsets  ?
arelinked with the ?main?
semantic relations like syn-onymy, near_synony my, antonymy, hypero/hy-ponymy, meronymy and others.
In the EuroWord-Net project (cf.
Vossen, 2003) Internal LanguageRelations  (ILR)  have  been  introduced  such  asRole_Agent, Agent_Involved or Role_Patient, Pa-tient_Involved etc., as well as the relation Deriva-tive  capturing  derivational  relations  betweensynsets.
The semantic nature  of  the derivationalrelations,  however,  was  not  systematically  ana-lyzed and labeled in EuroWordNet project.If we try to label the derivational relations se-mantically and include them in WordNet as a re-sult we get two level network where on the higherlevel  we have the ?main?
semantic  relations  be-tween  synsets  such  as  synonymy,  near_syn-onymy, antonymy, hypero/hyponymy,  meronymyand others and on the lower level there are rela-tions like the derivational ones that hold rather be-tween literals than between synsets.In the highly inflectional languages the deriva-tional relations represent a system of semantic re-lations that definitely reflects cognitive structuresthat may be related to a language ontology.
Suchontology undoubtedly exists but according to ourknowledge it has not been written down yet.
How-ever, for language users derivational affixes (mor-phemes) function as formal means by which theyexpress  semantic  relations  necessary  for  usinglanguage as a vehicle  of  communication.
In ourview, the derivational relations should be consid-ered as having semantic nature though a questionmay be asked what kind of semantics we are deal-ing with (see Sect.
3).
It has to be remarked thatgrammatical categories such as gender or numberdisplay a clear semantic nature.2 Derivational Morphology in CzechIn Czech words are regularly inflected (declined,conjugated) as they express different grammaticalcategories  (gender,  number,  case,  person,  tense,aspect  etc.)
using affixes.
This is what is  called75formal morphology in Czech grammars and its de-scription mostly deals  with the system of the in-flectional paradigms.
Then there is a  derivationalmorphology which deals with deriving words fromother  words,  e.g.
nouns  from  verbs,  adjectivesfrom nouns or verbs etc.
using affixes again.
Thederivations  are  closely related  to  the  inflectionalparadigms in a specific way:  we can speak aboutderivational paradigms as well (cf.
Pala, Sedl?
?ek,Veber,  2003).For Czech inflectional morphology there are au-tomatic tools ?
morphological analyzers exploitingthe formal description of the inflection paradigms?
we  work  with  the  analyzer  called  Ajka  (cf.Sedl?
?ek, Smr?, 2003) and developed in our NLPLab.
Its  list  of  stems  contains  approx.
400  000items, up to 1600 inflectional paradigms and it isable to generate approx.
6 mil.
Czech word forms.We are using it for lemmatization and tagging,as a module for syntactic  analyzer,  etc.
We havealso developed a derivational version of Ajka (D-Ajka) that is  able to work with the main  regularderivational  relations  in  Czech  ?
it  can  generatenew word forms derived from the stems.
Togetherwith D-Ajka an MWE preprocessing module withthe  database  containing  approx.
100 000 colloca-tions is exploited as well.2.1 Derivational relations in CzechThe  derivational  relations  (D-relations)  in  Czechcover a large part of the word stock (up to 70 %).Thus we are interested in describing derivationalprocesses (see examples) by which new words areformed from the corresponding word bases (roots,stems).
In  Czech  grammars  (Mluvnice  ?e?tiny,1986) we can find at least the following main types(presently 14) of the derivational processes:1.  mutation:   noun  ->  noun derivation,  e.g.ryba -ryb-n?k  (fish -> pond), semantic relationexpresses location ?
between an object and itstypical location,2.
transposition  (existing  between  differentPOS):  noun -> adjective  derivation,  e.g.
den-> den-n?
(day ->daily), semantically the rela-tion expresses property,3.
agentive relation (existing between differentPOS): verb -> noun  e.g.
u?it -> u?i-tel (teach-> teacher), semantically the relation  existsbetween action and its agent,4.
patient relation: verb -> noun, e.g.
trestat-> trestanec (punish ->convict), semanticallyit expresses a relation between an action andthe object (person) impacted by it,5.
instrument (means) relation: verb -> noun,e.g.
dr?et  ->  dr?
?k (hold ->holder),semantically it expresses a tool (means) usedwhen performing an action,6.
action relation  (existing between differentPOS):  verb  ->  noun, e.g.
u?it  ->  u?e-n-?
(teach -> teaching), usually the derived nounsare charaterized as deverbatives, semanticallyboth  members  of  the  relation  denote  action(process),7.  property-va  relation  (existing  betweendifferent  POS):  verb  ->  adjective,  e.g.vypracovat  ->  vypracova-n?
(work  out  ->worked out),   usually the derived adjectivesare labelled as de-adjectives, semantically it isa relation between action and its property,8.
property-aad  relation  (existing  betweendifferent  POS):  adjective  ->  adverb,  e.g.rychl?
->  rychl-e (quick  ->  quickly),semantically we can speak about property,9.
property-an  (existing  between  differentPOS): adjective -> noun, e.g.
rychl?
-> rychl-ost (fast -> speed), semantically the relationexpresses property in both cases,10.
gender change relation: noun -> noun,e.g.
in?en?r -> in?en?r-ka   (engineer -> sheengineer), semantically the only difference isin sex of the persons denoted by these nouns,11.
diminutive  relation:  noun   ->  noun  ->noun,  e.g.
d?m  ->  dom-ek  ->  dom-e?ek(house -> small house -> very little house ora house to which a speaker has an emotionalattitude), in Czech the diminutive relation canbe binary or ternary,12.
augmentative relation: noun -> noun, e.g.b?ba  ->  bab-izna (beldame  ->  hag),semantically it  expresses different  emotionalattitudes to a person,13.
prefixation: verb -> verb,  e.g myslet  ->vy-myslet (think  ->  invent),  semanticallyprefixes  in  Czech  denote  a  number  of76different  relations  such  as  distributive,location,  time, measure and some others.
Wewill not be dealing with this topic here, it callsfor a separate examination (project),14.  possessive  relation  (existing  betweendifferent  POS):  noun   ->  adjective  otec  ->otc?v (father  -> father?s), semantically it is arelation  between  an  object  (person)  and  itspossession.We should mention two more relations that aresometimes  regarded  inflectional  but  in  our  viewthey belong here as well: gerund relation - verb  ->adjective: (bojovat   ->bojuj?c?, fight  -> fighting)and passive relation ?
verb   -> adjective (passiveparticiple): (u?it  -> u?en, teach  -> taught).These  14  (+2)  relations  have  been  taken  as  astarting point for including derivational relations inCzech Wordnet.
The main condition for their  in-cluding is  whether  they can be generated by thederivational  version of the analyzer  Ajka.
In thisway we have been able to obtain automatically aprecise  specification  what  literals  are  linked  to-gether.
It was also necessary to introduce the labelsfor  the  individual  relations  in  a  more systematicway.
As a result  we have obtained the followinglist of 10 derivational relations with their semanticlabels that are given in the brackets and hold be-tween the indicated POS:1. deriv-na: noun -> adjective (property)2. deriv-ger: verb ->  adjective (property)3. deriv-dvrb: verb -> noun (activity as a noun)4. deriv-pos: noun -> adjective (possessiverelation)5. deriv-pas: verb -> adjective (passive relation)6. deriv-aad: adjective -> adverb (property ofproperty)7. deriv-an: adjective -> noun (property)8. deriv-g: noun -> noun (gender relation)9. deriv-ag: verb -> noun (agentive relation)10. deriv-dem: noun -> noun (diminutive relation)The location and patient relation will be includedin CzWn when the D-Ajka will be able to handlethem (in the near future).2.2 Derivational nests ?
subnetsIf  we have a look at  the data,  i.e.
at  the list  ofCzech stems and affixes and try to see how thejust described relations work we obtain the typicalderivational clusters ?
we will prefer to call themderivational  nests  (subnets).
To  illustrate  theirregularity we adduce an example of such nest forthe Czech roots ?
pr?c/prac- (work).
The main re-lations holding between these roots and the corre-sponding suffixes are:roots: -pr?c-/-prac-e-deriv-act - prac-ova-t (to work)deriv-loc1- prac-ov-i?t?
(workplace)deriv-loc2 - prac-ov-na (study)deriv-ag1- prac-ov-n?k (worker),deriv-g - prac-ovn-ice (she-worker),deriv-ag2 - prac-ant (plodder)deriv-ger - prac-uj-?c?
(working - person)deriv-pro - prac-ov-n?
(professional,  working)deriv-pro - prac-ov-i-t-?
(diligent,  hardworking)deriv-pro - prac-ov-i-t-ost (diligence)The proposed labels are not final yet ?
the num-ber  of  the  productive  derivational  relations  thathave to be examined in Czech is larger, certainlyup to 15.
Number of the derivational suffixes inCzech is higher ?
more than 80.At the moment the derivational Ajka is not ableto  generate  the  full  nests  automatically  but  wecontinue processing the remaining Czech deriva-tional suffixes for this purpose.2.3 Processing derivational suffixesSo far we have not said much about the affixes,i.e.
prefixes,  stem-forming  infixes  and  suffixesused in derivations.
In this analysis we pay atten-tion  mainly  to  the  suffixes,  prefixes  are  relatedmostly to verbs and in this sense they represent aseparate and rather complicated derivational sys-tem.
Infixes  or  intersegments  are  basically cov-ered by the list of stems ?
instead writing rules forchanges in stems we just use  more variants of one77stem.
But the root analysis  is possible and if wewant  to  describe  the  derivational  processes  inCzech as completely as possible we have to returnto them.As  starting  data  we  have  used  a  list  of  nounstems taken from the stem dictionary of the D-Ajkaanalyzer  ?
their  number is  approx.
126 000.
Thederivations  have been analyzed  by means  of  theweb  interface  developed  just  for  this  purpose.Noun derivations are performed in the three basicsteps:1. a set of words is defined by means of the (pre-fix), suffix and morphological tag;2. defining a derivational rule ?
typically a substi-tution of morphemes  (suffixes)  at  the end of theword;3. manual modification of the results ?
usually cor-recting or deleting cases that cannot be regarded asproperly derived forms though they may follow thegiven rule.An  example  of  the  derivational  analysis  forCzech sufix ?
?k: it occurs with the nouns denotingagent or instrument (means), e.g.
zed-n-?k (brick-layer) or  kapes-n?k (hankerchief).First we want to derive agentive nouns: so weenter the suffix ?
?k and tag k1gM (noun, masculineanimate) and generate the list of all words endingwith -?k.
The output is a list of 1210 nouns includ-ing proper names (from the original list of 126 000Czech nouns).
To obtain instrument nouns we in-put the tag k1gI (noun, masculine inanimate).
Asan output result we get a list of 715 nouns includ-ing proper names.
The number of all words endingwith suffix  -?k (disregarding the grammatical  tag)in stem dictionary of Ajka is 1830.
The differencein the given numbers follows from the homonymy,for  instance,  some nouns can  be  both  masculineanimate  and  masculine  inanimate (e.g.
n?
?eln?kcan denote ?
chief  as well as ?elenka ?
headband.Such cases have been checked manually.In a similar way we have processed 22 Czechderivational  suffixes and as a result  we have ob-tained  a  detailed  classification  of  the  indicatedderivations capturing agentive, instrumental, loca-tion  and  also  resultative  relations,  for  instancesp?lit  -> sp?lenina  (to burn ->  a burn) which hasnot been mentioned before.
At the same time thecomplete lists of all stems with the indicated suf-fixes together with labeling their semantic relationsbetween the stems and respective suffixes was ob-tained as well.
For the processed suffixes the cov-erage  is  complete  (with  regard  to  the  list  of126 000 of the Czech noun stems).Thus using the described procedure we are try-ing to find pairs of the word forms in which thefirst one is considered basic and the second onederived.
The direction of the derivations is not al-ways  unambiguous  but  the  most  importantgoal is to establish the relation itself not its direc-tion.
The cases when changes in stem take placehave to be checked and added manually.2.4 D-relations in Czech and English WordNetIn Figure 1 we show how the D. relations are im-plemented in Czech Wordnet.
As an example weshowFigure1:  D-relations in Czech WordNetverbal  synset  {u?it:1,  vyu?ovat:  prob?rat:1,br?t:2}and the similar English one  {teach:1, in-struct:1}).
It can be seen that there is a derivation-al  subnet  with  five  D-relations  associated  to78{u?it:1, ...} (in fact 14 but they are repeating withother literals in the synset as well).
Each D-relationis labeled semantically so we have here the follow-ing  D-relations:  agentive,  location,  deverbative,gerund, passive ?
the last two may be characterizedas more morphological (surface, see Sect.
2.1) thanthe first three.In Princeton WordNet 3.0 we can observe thefollowing  three  D-relations  associated  with  thesynset {teach:1, learn:5, instruct:1}S: (v) teach, learn, instruct (impart skills or knowl-edge to)  "I taught  them French";  "He instructedme in building a boat"derivationally related form?
W:   (adj) teachable [Related to: teach](ready and willing to be taught) "docilepupils eager for instruction"; "teachableyoungsters"?
W:   (n) teacher [Related to: teach] (a per-son whose occupation is teaching)?
W:   (n) teacher [Related to: teach] (a per-sonified abstraction that teaches) "bookswere his teachers"; "experience is a de-manding teacher"?
W:   (n) teaching [Related to: teach] (the ac-tivities of educating or instructing; activi-ties that impart knowledge or skill) "he re-ceived no formal education"; "our instruc-tion was carefully programmed"; "goodclassroom teaching is seldom rewarded"?
W:   (adj) instructive [Related to: instruct](serving to instruct or enlighten or inform)?
W:   (n) instruction [Related to: instruct](the activities of educating or instructing;activities that impart knowledge or skill)"he received no formal education"; "ourinstruction was carefully programmed";"good classroom teaching is seldom re-warded"?
W:   (n) instructor [Related to: instruct] (aperson whose occupation is teaching)It is not surprising that the full agreement betweenCzech  and English  D-relations  includes  only theagentive relation (teach -> teacher) and gerund re-lation  (teach  ->  teaching).
The relation  teach  ->teachable is not included among Czech relations atthe moment but it will be easy to add it.
The loca-tion relation is missing in English and also someothers characterized usually as morphological.
Weincluded them in Czech WordNet ?
they belong tothe set of the Czech derivational relations.If we compare semantic labeling of the D-rela-tions in both Wordnets we observe that they aremore  explicitly  formulated  in  Czech  Wordnet.The question that remains to be answered is howthe different senses may be or are reflected in theindividual derivations.
In PWN 3.0 the derivationteach ?
teacher is given twice because there aretwo different senses of  teach in PWN 3.0.
In ourview, it is enough to give this derivational relationjust once because it is agentive in both cases.
Ofcourse,  in  Czech  there  are  frequent  cases  likedr?et -> dr?
?k (hold -> holder) and dr?et -> dr?i-tel  (hold  -> holder) where the first one is instru-ment  relation  and  the  second  agentive  but  inCzech the different suffixes have to be used (-?kvs.
-tel) indicating a difference in gender as well(masculine inanimate vs. masculine animate).3 What is the nature of the D-relations?In the previous sections we have introduced thelabeling  of  the  Czech D-relations.
The  questionmay be asked what is the real  nature of D-rela-tions, whether it is semantic or rather morphologi-cal (formal).
The D-relations exist between mor-phemes, typically between stems and correspond-ing suffixes.
This formal feature makes them dif-ferent  from the  relations  between sentence  con-stituents,  as  e.g.
between  verbs  and  their  argu-ments.
However,  the  main  criterion  for  us  iswhether the particular relation affects meaning ir-respective of its formal realization.If we apply this criterion to the D-relations dis-cussed above, such as deriv-ag, deriv-loc, deriv-instr, deriv-g, deriv-dem, deriv-pos, deriv-pro, wedefinitely come to the conclusion that their natureis semantic.Then there are relations like deriv-an, deriv-na,deriv-dvrb, deriv-ger, deriv-aad, deriv-pas that aresometimes  characterized  as  morphological  onlyand their semantics is left aside.
The first two re-lations  hold  between  nouns  and  adjectives  andboth  denote  properties  (e.g.
deriv-an:  nov?
->novost  (new -> newness)),  but  we have to  takeinto account that there is something that may becalled semantics of the parts of speech, i.e.
in onecase  property is  expressed  by the  adjective  andthen by the noun which is derived from the adjec-79tive.
Deriv-na denotes property as well but here theadjective  is  derived  from noun as  in  boj  -> bo-jovn?
(fight  -> combative).
The relation deriv-dvrb exists between a verb and noun, e.g.
u?it  ->u?en?
(teach  -> teaching),  and it  denotes actionwhich is first expressed by the verb and then by thedeverbative noun.
We can say that in these casesthe only difference lies in the optics of the individ-ual  parts  of  speech but  this  difference should beunderstood as semantic as well.
However, it shouldbe remarked once more that quite often the differ-ences in the semantics of the parts of speech arenot treated as truly semantic.If we have  look what standard Czech grammars(see e.g.
Karl?k et al 1995) say about the semanticsof  the  parts  of  speech  we  find  the  formulationssuch as:   nouns  denote independent entities,  i.e.persons, animals and things and also properties andactions.
Verbs then denote states and their changesand processes (actions) and their mutations.
Thesedescriptions certainly refer to the semantics of thenouns and verbs.
They are usually followed by theexplanations  about  morphological  processes,  i.  e.usually derivations by which some parts of speechare formed from the others, as we have describedthem above.
What is relevant and what is missingin the standard grammars are more detailed and ex-tensive semantic classifications of nouns, verbs, aswell as adjectives and numerals.
They are begin-ning to appear only recently and have the form ofontologies ?
the standard grammars do not use thisterm at all.Until we have such semantic classifications de-scribing semantic relations between the individualparts of speech we can hardly have a full picturethat  is  necessary for  automatic processing of thederivational relations.This issue certainly calls for a more detailed ex-amination, which would be a topic for another pa-per.4 The  implementation  of  D-relations  inCzech WordNetThe existing software tools (e.g.Visdic, cf.
Hor?k,Smr?, 2004 ) used for building Wordnet databasesstandardly work  with  semantic  relations  betweensynsets and they treat them as atomic units.
In fact,the synsets are not atomic as such and they consistof the smaller units called literals, i.e.
for instancethe synset {teach:1, instruct:1} contains two liter-als (lemmas).If  we want to deal  with the D-relations auto-matically  we  immediately  face  a  problem:  be-cause of their  nature they typically hold not be-tween synsets  but between literals that as a rulebelong to  the  different  synsets,  e.g.
teach:1  andteacher:1.
Therefore we need a tool that is able todefine  and create  derivational  links  between theliterals.
According to our knowledge the only toolthat can do this is DEBVisdic editor and browserdeveloped at our NLP Lab at FI MU (cf.
Hor?k,Pala, 2006, it can be downloaded from: http://nlp.-fi.muni.cz/projekty/deb2/clients/).We have used it for the implementation of theD-relations  in  Czech  WordNet  (the  result  isshown in Sect.
2.4).
The DEBVisdic tool is nowused for representing and storing all the semanticrelations including the D-relations.
It  is  also ex-ploited for building Wordnets in other languagessuch as Polish, Slovenian, Hungarian and others.In our view, the way in which the D-relations(and  other  relations  as  well)  are  representedrelevantly  depends  on  the  software  tools  used.This  can  be  demonstrated  if  we  compare  therepresentation  of  the  Czech  D-relations  inDEBVisdic with the one in PWN 3.0 (see Sect.2.4) which appears to be less explicit and ratherverbose.
This  also means  that the representationused in PWN 3.0 will be probably less suitable forpossible applications.5 The resultsAs we said above after processing all D-relationsby the derivational Ajka we have added the de-rived  literals  (lemmas)  to  the  Czech  WordNet.The final result ?
the number of the literals gener-ated from the individual D-relations is given be-low together with their semantic labels:deriv-na ????
641 (property, noun -> adj)deriv-ger ??
?..1951 (property, verb -> adj)deriv-dvrb ??
?5041 (action, verb -> noun)deriv-pos ??
?.4073 (possessive, noun -> adj)deriv-pas ??
?.9801 (passive, verb -> adj)deriv-aad ............1416  (property, adj -> adverb)80deriv-an ??
?...1930 (property, adj -> noun)deriv-g ???
?.2695 (gender, noun -> noun)deriv-ag ???
?.186 (agentive, verb -> noun)deriv-dem ??
?3695 (diminutive, noun -> noun)Total ????
31429 literalsThese numbers also tell us how productive theparticular relations are.
Note that the most frequentis passive relation which is followed by the dever-bative (action) relation.
The third most frequent re-lation is a possessive one.
It would be interesting toexamine what these facts can tell us about semanticstructure of texts.6    ConclusionsIn the paper we present the first results of compu-tational analysis of the basic and most regular D-relations in Czech using derivational version of themorphological analyzer Ajka.Though the analysis is far from complete at themoment the number of the generated items has ledus to the decision to include them in Czech Word-Net and enrich it considerably with the derivationalnests  (subnets).
In our view,  this  kind of enrich-ment  makes  Czech  WordNet  more  suitable  forsome applications, namely for searching.The second and even more important reason fordoing all this is a belief that the derivational rela-tions and derivational subnets created by them re-flect basic cognitive structures existing in naturallanguage.
More effort is needed for exploring themfrom the point of view of now so popular ontolo-gies ?
they certainly offer a formal  ground (theyare  expressed  by  the  individual  morphemes)  fornatural language based ontologies.We have also included a brief comparison withthe recently released Princeton WordNet 3.0 whichnow contains derivational links for English as well.As  we  expected  the  comparison  confirms  theknown fact that English as an analytic language ismuch poorer with regard to the derivational rela-tions than the inflectional ones.From the technical point of view PWN 3.0 is stillnot  using  the  representation  in  XML format  (asDebVisdic does) and this, we think, in certain de-gree limits the possibilities to express some of thelinks in a standard way.
The present web interfacewhere  Princeton  WordNet  3.0  can  be  browsed:http://wordnet.princeton.edu/perl/webwn)   doesnot seem to be able to work directly with the linksbetween literals.On  the  other  hand,  we  are  well  aware  thatadding D-relations to PWN 3.0 is very stimulatingand useful  though it will  be quite demanding toestablish  the  derivational  links  between  Englishand other languages (through Interlingual Index).This  makes  it  a  new  challenge  for  the  wholeWordNet community.AcknowledgementsThe research was supported by the grant projectsGA  201/05/2871,  1ET100300419  and  NPVII2C06009.ReferencesHor?k  A.,  Pala  K.,  Rambousek  A.,  and Povoln?
M.2006.
First  version  of  new  client-server  wordnetbrowsing  and  editing  tool.
In  Proceedings  of  theThird  International  WordNet  Conference  ?
GWC2006, p. 325-328, Jeju, South Korea, Masaryk Uni-versity, Brno.Hor?k A.,  Smr?
P.  2004.
Visdic  ?
WordNet  Editingand Browsing Tool,  Proceedings of the 2nd GWC,Brno, Masaryk University.Karl?k P. et al 1995, P??ru?n?
mluvnice ?e?tiny (Everyday Czech Grammar),  Nakladatelstv?
Lidov?
Nov-iny,  Prague, pp.
229, 310.Pala  K.,  Sedl?
?ek  R.,  Veber  M.  2003.
Relationsbetween  Inflectional  and  Derivation  Patterns,Proceedings of EACL, Budapest.Petr  J.  et  al.
1986.
Mluvnice  ?e?tiny  1, Praha:Academia.Sedl?
?ek R., Smr?
P. 2001.
A New Czech Morpholo-gical Analyser Ajka.
Proceedings of the 4th Interna-tional  Conference  on  Text,  Speech  and  Dialogue,Springer Verlag, Berlin, s.100-107.Vossen  P.  2003.
EuroWordNet  General  Document,Version 3, University of Amsterdam.Web address of the Princeton WordNet 3.0:http://wordnet.princeton.edu/perl/webwn.81
