Balto-Slavonic Natural Language Processing 2007, June 29, 2007, pages 59?66,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsMulti-word Term Extraction for BulgarianSvetla KoevaDepartment of Computational Linguistics ?
IBLBulgarian Academy of Sciences52 Shipchenski prohod Blv.
Sofia 1113, Bulgariasvetla@ibl.bas.bgAbstractThe goal of this paper is to compile amethod for multi-word term extraction,taking into account both the linguisticproperties of Bulgarian terms and theirstatistical rates.
The method relies on theextraction of term candidates matchinggiven syntactic patterns followed by statis-tical (by means of Log-likelihood ratio)and linguistically (by means of inflec-tional clustering) based filtering aimed atimproving the coverage and the precisionof multi-word term extraction.1 IntroductionThe goal of this paper is to compile a method formulti-word term extraction, taking into accountboth the linguistic properties of Bulgarian termsand their statistical rates.
Term extraction exploitswell-established techniques that seem difficult toimprove significantly.
As in many other areas ofcomputational linguistics, term extraction has beenapproached generally with three different strategies?
linguistic techniques, statistical techniques and acombination of both (Bourigault et al, 2001; Jac-quemin & Bourigault, 2000).
The linguisticallybased techniques exploit the morpho-syntacticstructure of terms that usually differ from one lan-guage to another (for example in Bulgarian and inEnglish the most frequent syntactic structure repre-senting terms is the noun phrase, but the two lan-guages significantly differ in their constituentstructure and agreement properties).
The automaticextraction of term morpho-syntactic patterns, beingin most cases language-dependent, requires spe-cific language processing ?
Part-of-speech (POS)tagging, lemmatization, syntactic parsing, etc.
Thestatistical techniques, on the other hand, rely on thedifferent statistical features of terms compared toother words in the text and are usually based on thedetection of words and expressions with a fre-quency value higher than a given limit.
Some ofthe statistical approaches focus on the associationmeasures between the components of the multi-word terms.
Hybrid approaches, combining lin-guistic and statistical techniques, are also applied,mainly in two manners: statistical proceeding isused to filter the term candidates obtained throughlinguistic techniques, and, vice versa, some lin-guistic filters are exploited after statistical process-ing, in order to extract the statistically significantword combinations that match some given syntac-tic patterns.The method for automatic multi-word term ex-traction, presented in this paper, also relies both onlinguistic knowledge and on statistical processing.The research aims are to:?
Apply syntactic patterns of Bulgarianterms directed to multi-word term extraction;?
Use well-known statistical methods (asso-ciation measures) to eliminate some of the irrele-vant multi-word terms;?
Further limit the number of invalid termsby clustering term candidates around their lem-mas;?
Test the performance of such a methodover the manually annotated corpus.59Most of the current methods for automatic termextraction are developed for English, and thus theyare not appropriate for direct adaptation to Bulgar-ian, due to the morpho-syntactic differences be-tween the two languages.
Bulgarian is a languagewith a rich inflectional system.
That is to say, anoun lemma can appear in six forms if it is mascu-line and in four forms if it is feminine or neuter.Besides, noun phrase structure and agreementproperties in Bulgarian differ in some aspects fromother languages such as English, Therefore, a lan-guage-specific approach is needed if we want toutilise the morpho-syntactical information for termextraction.
To the best of our knowledge there isno report of an extensive work directed towardsBulgarian term extraction.The structure of our paper outlines the threesteps involved in our approach.
In the followingsection we present a short linguistic analysis ofBulgarian terms.
In the third section, we describethe identification of the candidate terms.
Thefourth section explains how we applied a list ofterms to the filters.
We then evaluate our results ona corpus that was set up by manual annotation.
Fi-nally, we discuss some peculiarities of the pre-sented study and propose future works to be done.2 Linguistic analysis of Bulgarian terms2.1.
Compilation of a term annotated corpusWe share the views that larger corpora not onlygive statistically more reliable counts, but also re-veal phenomena that are completely lacking insmaller samples.
The Acquis Communautaire(AC) 1 ?
the European Union legislation, whichconsists of approximately eight thousand docu-ments containing approximately 40 million words(to be more specific, its Bulgarian subpart) ?
istargeted as the most appropriate resource for ourresearch: because of its size, and because of thenumber of languages included in it.
(The proposedmethod can be further transformed and/or evalu-ated to deal with the rest of the languages repre-sented in the parallel corpus.
)The AC contains documents from several do-mains, which are divided into chapters: Agricul-ture, Fisheries, Transport Policy, Taxation,Economic and Monetary Union, Statistics, Social1 There has been some experience of exploiting the AC as amultilingual corpus (Steinberger at al., 2006).Policy and Employment, Energy, Industrial Policy,Education and Training, Telecommunication andInformation Technologies, Culture and Audio-visual Policy, etc.
This annotated subpart of theBulgarian AC is developed as a test corpus andcontains 10,521 words from randomly selected textsamples representing the domains of Agriculture(AGR), Energy (ENR) and Education and Training(EDC).Some criteria for the manual annotation of Bul-garian terms were defined, the notion of termamong others.
As with most linguistic concepts, aterm is defined in various ways.
For example, as ?aword or expression that has a precise meaning insome uses or is peculiar to a science, art, profes-sion?
(Webster, 2002), or as ?a word or expressionused for some particular thing?2, or generally aswords or phrases that denote specific concepts in agiven subject domain.
For the purposes of this in-vestigation we defined a term asAn open class word or expression that is peculiarto a specific domain of human activities and occurswith a determinate (in some limits) frequency inthat domain.The annotation of terms in the Bulgarian ACsubpart is also based on both the maximum andminimum length term selection.
That is, in the caseof a multi-word term which constituents are alsoterms, the longest term (as well as all shorterterms) is selected.
It should be pointed out, how-ever, that the term annotated corpus is still smallenough to be representative of the word frequencyand is a sample of translated texts that might mani-fest different tendencies for a term?s distributionfrom those in the original texts.2.2.
Single-word terms vs. multi-word termsThe general impression is that the most of the pa-pers dealing with automatic term extraction (espe-cially the statistically based ones) are focused onmulti-word terms.
This can be explained by thefact that for English a bigger percentage of multi-word terms comparing to single-word terms is re-ported.
To show the tendency for the correlationbetween single-word and multi-word terms in Bul-garian texts, the manually annotated subpart of theBulgarian AC has been studied.
We found out (Ta-ble 1.)
that the proportion of single-word terms2 http://wordnet.princeton.edu60varies from about 2.5% to 3% depending on thesubject domain.The results show that the use of single-wordterms in Bulgarian technical documents is also notvery frequent and the tendency is that multi-wordterms are preferred to single-word ones.
Followingthese observations, first we will concentrate on theextraction of the Bulgarian multi-word terms.Domain AGR ENR EDC Total#Words 4423 3002 3096 10521#Terms (T) 344 297 254 895#Multi-word T 266 165 171 602#Single-word T 111 89 93 293% Terms 7,77 9,89 8,2 8,5% Single-word T 2,5 2,96 3 2,78Table 1.
Distribution of single-word terms2.3 Syntactic structures of Bulgarian termsThe starting point for the linguistically motivatedpart of the automatic term extraction is to describethe syntactic structure of Bulgarian terms.
Thereare several Bulgarian terminological dictionariespublished and some terminological databasesavailable on the internet ?
all recourses are takeninto consideration in the analysis without providingexact calculations.
The collection of Bulgarianterms, obtained by the annotated subpart of theBulgarian AC, is used as a source for the determi-nation of the most frequent syntactic structures ofBulgarian terms.It is claimed that NPs constitute about 80-99 %of whole terms in an English text, with the varyingpercentage depending on the text types (Arppe,1995).
The same statement is roughly true for Bul-garian; although there are some adjectives andverbs that can be regarded as terms in a certaindomain (only three verbs and one adjective are de-tected in the annotated corpus).
In this study wehave concentrated on the NPs?
term extraction,which comprises the focus of interest in severalstudies (Jacquemin, 2001; Justeson & Katz, 1995;Voutanen, 1993).In order to obtain the statistics, the annotated partof Bulgarian AC is pre-processing.
This allows theconsequences of the categories constituting Bul-garian terms to be extracted and their frequency tobe calculated.
As a result, 16 different sequences ofcategories are obtained, among them 5 with a ratehigher than 11 %.
In the next examples the mostfrequent syntactic patterns of the Bulgarian multi-word terms are listed following their frequencyrate:?
AN ?
riboloven sezon (fishing season),iglolistno darvo (conifer), zemedelski ceni (firmprices), termalna energiya (thermal energy), kli-matichna instalaciya (air-conditioning);?
NpN ?
obogatyavane na gorivo (fuel en-richment), podobryavane na pochvata (soil im-provement), prava na deteto (children's rights),svoboda na pechata (freedom of the press);?
NpAN ?
opazvane na okolnata sreda(environmental protection), nomenklatura nazemedelskite produkti (agricultural product no-menclature), izpolzvane na slanchevata energiya(solar energy end-use applications), sredstva zamasova informaciya (media);?
AAN ?
semeyno zemedelsko stopanstwo(family farming), evropeyska parichna sistema(European Monetary System), inteligentnatransportna sistema (intelligent transport sys-tem), magniten informacionen nositel (magneticmedium);?
ANpN ?
elektronen transfer na fondove(electronic funds transfer), optichesko raz-poznavane na simvoli (Optical Character Recog-nition), pravna uredba na telekomunikaciite(regulation of telecommunications), izbiratelnorazprostranenie na informaciya (selective dis-semination of information).Among the five types, the AN structure wasthe most frequent one, although the exact percent-age still remains to be calculated over the biggercorpus.The main differences observed concerning thesefive Bulgarian structures and their English equiva-lents are the regular agreement between the adjec-tival modifier and the head noun in Bulgarian andthe prepositional phrase in Bulgarian instead thenoun modifier in English.
The adjective-nounagreement in Bulgarian noun phrases is partiallyexploited in the presented piece of work, but itmight be extensively considered in further im-provements of the method.In the case of NpN, NpAN and ANpN structures,we found out that most of the terms correspondingto these patterns are built up with the Bulgarian61preposition na (of).
This may be explained by thefact that these PPs usually correspond to the Eng-lish NPs with a noun modifier denoting more spe-cific concepts.
The possible strings of categoriesthat might constitute the Bulgarian terms are ex-ploited due to the fact that Bulgarian terms usuallydo not allow other constituents among their parts.2.4 Term variationsSome authors have pointed out the discrepancybetween term representation in dictionaries, andthe term forms used in real texts (Daille, 2003).
Itis well known that the same concept can be formu-lated in different ways and the automatic term ex-traction should be able to recognize and link thosedifferent linguistic forms or expressions.
Differentkinds of term variants are distinguished in the lit-erature: orthographic variants (capitalization), in-flectional variants (word forms), morpho-syntacticvariants (derivation), syntactic variants (word or-der differences) and semantic variants (syno-nyms).In this study only the orthographic and inflec-tional variants are taken into consideration.
Itshould be pointed out that compared to lemmasthe multi-word terms have their own inflectiverules.
The POS of the head word determines theclustering of the term into grammatical classes,such as noun, adjective, and so on, which definethe possible slots in the paradigm.The significant grammatical categories inherentto the lemma of the head word (such as gender fornouns), the number and POS of the remainingconstituents and the options for inserting somewords (such as particles) in the multi-word termstructure all show the grouping of multi-wordterms?
grammatical subclasses and define whichslots of the paradigm are realized in the language.And finally, the formation of word forms of eachcomponent of a multi-word term and the type ofagreement dependencies between componentsshow the classification of multi-word terms intogrammatical types that describe the real wordparadigm belonging to a particular term (Koeva,2005).For instance, the Bulgarian term klimatichna in-stalaciya (air-conditioning) is a noun phrase; themembers of the paradigm are determined by thehead feminine noun.
The inflection type is deter-mined by the inflectional alternations of eachmember (the adjective and the noun):klimatichna instalaciya ?
singular, indefiniteklimatichnata instalaciya ?
singular, definiteklimatichni instalaciii ?
plural, indefiniteklimatichnite instalaciii ?
plural, definiteThere are agreement dependencies betweenadjective and head noun and no other words?
in-tervention or word order changes are allowed.3 Automatic term extraction3.1 Pre-processing of the Bulgarian ACIt is common practice to extract candidate termsusing a part-of-speech (POS) tagger and anautomaton (a program extracting word sequencescorresponding to predefined POS patterns).
Thepart-of-speech tagging is the process of automati-cally identifying the words in a text as correspond-ing to a particular part of speech.
The part-of-speech tagger used in this study is developed utiliz-ing a large manually annotated corpus consistingof 197,000 tokens (150,000 words) randomly ex-tracted from the Bulgarian Brawn corpus(1,000,000 words) (Koeva et al, 2006).
The taggerhas been developed as a modified version of theBrill tagger (Brill, 1994).
The Brill tagger wastrained for Bulgarian using a part of the taggedcorpus.
We applied a rule-based approach leadingto 98.3% precision.
A sophisticated tokenizer thatrecognizes sentence boundaries and categorizestokens as words, abbreviations, punctuation, nu-merical expressions, hours, dates and URLs hasbeen built as a part of the tagger.
For each word inthe text the initial (most probable) part of speechamong the ambiguity set is assigned from a largeinflectional dictionary (Koeva, 1998).The words that are not recognized by the dic-tionary are handled by the guesser analyzing thesuffixes of the unrecognized words and assigningthe initial part of speech among the ambiguity set.The part-of-speech ambiguity ratio calculated overthe annotated corpus is 1.51 tags per word, whichmeans that on average every second word is am-biguous.
For solving the ambiguity, 144 contextualrules are implemented, utilizing the part of speechand dictionary information on the context, Someadditional techniques for the optimizations are im-plemented ?
the application of dictionaries of ab-breviations, proper nouns, grammatically unambi-guous words, etc.
After POS tagging the text re-62mains unchanged and the additional information isadded in an xml format.Lemmatization is the process of automatic de-termining the lemma for a given word.
Since thelemmatization involves fixing the part of speech ofa word, it requires the running of a tagger.
Lemma-tization is closely related to stemming.
The differ-ence is that a stemmer operates on a single wordwithout explicit knowledge of its identity as a partof speech, its lemma or its inflectional properties.For Bulgarian a large inflectional dictionary isused both for lemmatization and stemming.The tag sets differ both in how the words are di-vided into categories, and in how their categoriesare defined.
For the purposes of this investigationthe grammatical information characterizing theforms is also assigned to nouns and adjectives, be-cause the adjective-noun agreement is exploited.3.2 Extraction of term candidatesFollowing the frequency analysis of the constituentstructure of the Bulgarian multi-word terms, thetargeted syntactic patterns will be recognized bythe following regular expression:[(A+N(pA*N)?
)(NpA*N)]The strings of categories bellow will be matched;those with more than two adjectives are either rare,or not observed in the language:AN, AAN, NpN, NpAN, ANpN, ANpAN,NpAAN, ANpAAN, AANpAAN, ?The regular expression does not match the singleNs as well as the NPs with low frequently ?
onlythe five syntactic patterns with the highest fre-quency rate are targeted for the term extraction.Moreover, the agreement features of the BulgarianNP structures are exploited considering the unifica-tion of grammatical features between the precedingadjective and the immediate following adjective ornoun.
Based on patterns?
matching, the term can-didates corresponding to the above regular expres-sions are extracted:?
AN ?
osnovno obrazovanie (basic educa-tion),?
AAN ?
novi obrazovatelni metodi (neweducational methods), evropeyska audiovi-zualna zona (European audiovisual area),?
NpN ?
ezik za programirane(programming language),?
NpAN ?
planirane na uchebnata godina(planning of the school year), elekronnaobrabotka na danni (electronic dataprocessing), potrebitel na ingormacionnatehnologiya (information technology user), etc.On the other hand, the following phrases (whichare annotated as terms) are not recognized:?
NpVpN ?
aparat za vazproizwodstvo nazvuk (sound reproduction equipment),?
AcAN ?
poshtenski i telekomunikacionniuslugi (postal and telecommunications ser-vices),?
NpNpNN ?
sistema za upravlenie nabaza danni (database management system), etc.A deficiency of the approach based on the syntac-tic patterns is also the fact that any NP thatmatches the patterns will be selected as a termcandidate, as is shown in the following examples:?
AN ?
novi metodi (new methods),ogranicheno dvizhenie (limited circulation),?
NpN ?
analiz na informaciya (informa-tion analysis), broy na uchenicite (number ofpupils), etc.Some of the noun phrases are wrongly extracted,although in this case this is concerned with a com-positional building of structures that cannot beconsidered as that of multi-word terms.
Some termcandidates with a preposition cannot be treatedeven as phrases, because their parts belong to dif-ferent sentence constituents.
The identification ofthe sub-phrases that are themselves also termsshould also be taken into account.
In the followingexample, sistema za upravlenie na baza ot danni(database management system), the phrases sis-tema za uprawlenie (management system), uprav-lenie na baza ot danni (database management) andbaza ot danni (database) are also terms.Domain AGR ENG EDC Total#Words 4,423 3,002 3,096 10,521#Term candidates 901 778 712 2,391Table 2.
Number of term candidatesThe number of extracted term candidates de-pends on the structure of the sentences that occurin the selected domains.
Table 2 shows the ex-tracted term candidates from a Bulgarian AC sub-63part representing texts from the Agriculture, En-ergy and Education domains.4 Filtering of term candidatesAs a filtering mechanism we adopted the calculat-ing of the associativity between words, which isoften used to identify word collocations, and theterm clustering according to the inflexional para-digms.4.1 Statistical filteringThe frequency-based techniques applied to termfiltering assign a numerical value to sets of wordsto rank term candidates and exclude those termcandidates below a certain threshold.
The state-ment that the more frequently a lexical unit appearsin a given document the more likely it is that thisunit has a terminological function can be applied tocertain genres of texts.
Alone, frequency is not arobust metric for assessing the terminologicalproperty of a candidate.In our case, we want to measure the cohesion ofa multi-word candidate term by verifying if itswords occur together as a coincidence or not.
As-sociation measures are often used to rate the corre-lation of word pairs (Daille, 1995; Daille et al,1998).B !BA Nii Nij N1p!A Nji Njj N2pNp1 Np2 NppTable 3.
The contingency tableThese measures can be derived from the contin-gency table (Table 3.)
of the word pair (A,B) con-taining the observed frequencies of (A,B), as fol-lows:Nii  = the joint frequency of word A and word B;Nij = the frequency word A occurs and word Bdoes not;Nji = the frequency word B occurs and word Adoes not;Njj = the frequency word A and word B do not oc-cur;Npp = the total number of ngrams;Np1, Np2, N1p, N2p are the marginal counts.The lexical association measures are formulasthat relate the observed frequencies to the expectedfrequency (Mij = (Np1 * N1p) / Npp) under theassumption that A and B are independent.
For thecurrent work, the Log-likelihood coefficient hasbeen employed (Dunning, 1993), as it is reportedto perform well among other scoring methods(Daille, 1995).Log-likelihood = 2 * ?
( Nij * log( Nij / Mij) )This calculation over the text serves as an impor-tant technique in identifying term candidates.
Thelarger the value of Log-likelihood is, the strongeris the association between the two pairs of thestring; consequently the string is the most probablecandidate.
Statistic filtering is applied only to thoseterm candidates extracted by the linguistic compo-nent.
For the calculation, the Ngram StatisticsPackage (NSP), programs that aids in analyzingngrams, is executed (Banerjee & Pedersen, 2003).The NSP takes text files (in our case Cyrillic lettersare transliterated into Latin) as input and generatesa list of bigrams along with their frequencies asoutputs.
Over the list of bigrams obtained, the Log-likelihood is run to compute a ratio for each ngram.The bigrams are targeted because some of the termcandidates initially extracted are long ones contain-ing sub-phrases that are likely to function as termcandidates.
In order to avoid potential term candi-dates being included in other longer phrases, theterm candidates are split and the constituting bi-grams are generated.As a result of statistical filtering, the initially se-lected term candidates are assigned different valuesaccording to their word association.
The Log-likelihood coefficient computed for each bigram isused to decide whether or not there is enough evi-dence to reject or accept a bigram - there is a clearopposition between small and big values.
Belowthe first five ranked candidates are listed.1.
evropeyskata obshtnost (European community)2. atomna energiya (nuclear energy)3. detska gradina (kindergarten)4.
Darzhaven vestnik (government newspaper)5. obrazovatelna sistema (educational system)4.2 Linguistic filteringThe linguistic filtering aims at linking the differentvariations of the same basic term.
The list of theautomatically extracted terms was reviewed by64means of lemmatization in order to refine it and toincrease the score of some terms.
Until this stagethe different word forms of a term were calculatedseparately.
Bulgarian is a highly inflected language?
the forms of the head noun can vary from one toseven depending of the gender, number and refer-ences to a person.
The sequences of lemmas be-longing to the term candidates are processed andthe frequency values are recalculated according tothe grouping of terms in one inflectional clusterwith respect to the common canonical form.Through this technique morphologically-relatedoccurrences, such as iglolistno darvo (a conifer),iglolistnoto darvo (the conifer), iglolistni darveta(conifers) and iglolistnite darveta (the conifers) aretreated as one term.5 EvaluationThe presented method of identifying Bulgarianmulti-word terms was applied on the manually an-notated corpus.
First the texts were pre-processedby means of POS tagging and lemmatization, thenthe target syntactic patterns were extracted, and therates of the related bigrams were calculated bymeans of Log-likelihood association, and finallyadditional reordering of term candidates was per-formed by means of inflectional clustering.
As aresult, 430 (from 539) correctly extracted multi-word terms are obtained ?
the precision of 79.96%is registered.6 Conclusions and future workWe have presented a method aimed at extractingBulgarian multi-word terms, which relies on theextraction of syntactic patterns from text and onthe statistical and linguistically based filteringaimed at improving the coverage and the precisionof multi-word collocation extraction.
We have ap-plied Log-likelihood ratio statistical filtering to theextracted multi-word terms.
All extracted termcandidates are grammatically correct, due to thesyntactically based pattern matching.
Further de-velopments of the method include:?
Statistical determination of single-wordterms;?
Coverage of long-distance occurrence andrare syntactic structures of multi-word terms;?
Analyzing the embedded terms.?
Using 'stop lists' of open and closed classwords that are hardly to be found in the multi-word terms.Some other experiments will be made usingother well-known techniques of association meas-ure.
For the evaluation purposes the test corpuswill be extended.
A bigger homogeneous corpuswould undoubtedly result in an increase in termswith more representative frequencies, and, there-fore, in an improvement in statistical estimation ofterms.
The results can be exploited in the multilin-gual term extraction, due to the fact that the ACrepresents the biggest multilingual parallel corpus.ReferencesA.
Aprre 1995.
Term Extraction from Unrestricted Text:10th Nordic Conference of Computational Linguistics(NoDaLiDa), Helsinki.S.
Banerjee and T. Pedersen 2003.
The Design, Imple-mentation, and Use of the Ngram Statistics Package,Proceedings of the Fourth International Conferenceon Intelligent Text Processing and ComputationalLinguistics, Mexico City.D.
Bourigault, C. Jacquemin, and M.-C. L'Homme2001.
Recent Advances in Computational Terminol-ogy, volume 2 of Natural Language Processing, JohnBenjamins.E.
Brill 1994.
Some Advances In Rule-Based Part ofSpeech Tagging AAAI, Seattle, WashingtonB.
Daille 1995.
Combined approach for terminologyextraction: lexical statistics and linguistic filtering.Technical paper.
UCREL, Lancaster University.B.
Daille 2003.
Conceptual structuring through termvariations, Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Mul-tiword Expressions: Analysis, Acquisition and Treat-ment.B.
Daille, E. Gaussier, and J.-M. Lange 1998.
AnEvaluation of Statistical Scores for Word Association,in J. Ginzburg, Z. Khasidashvili, C. Vogel, J.-J.
Levy,and E. Vallduvi (eds), The Tbilisi Symposium onLogic, Language and Computation: Selected Papers,CSLI Publications, p. 177-188.T.
Dunning 1993.
Accurate methods for thestatistics ofsurprise and coincidence,.
Computational Linguistics,19(1):61?74.65C.
Jacquemin 2001.
Spotting and Discovering Termsthrough Natural Language Processing.
MIT Press.C.
Jacquemin and D. Bouricault 2000.
Chapter 19 TermExtraction and Automatic Indexing, Handbook ofComputational Linguistics (R. Mitkov (ed.
)), OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford.J.
S. Justeson and S. M. Katz 1995.
Technical Termi-nology: Some Linguistic Properties and an Algorithmfor Identification in Text, Natural Language Engi-neering.
1(1):9-27.S.
Koeva 1998.
Bulgarian Grammatical dictionary.
Or-ganization of the language data, Bulgarian language,vol.
6: 49-58.S.
Koeva 2005.
Inflection Morphology of BulgarianMultiword Expressions, Computer Applications inSlavic Studies ?
Proceedings of Azbuki@net, Interna-tional Conference and Workshop, Sofia, 201-216.S.
Koeva, S. Leseva, I. Stoyanova, E. Tarpomanova,and M. Todorova 2006.
Bulgarian Tagged Corpora,Proceedings of the Fifth International ConferenceFormal Approaches to South Slavic and Balkan Lan-guages, Sofia, 78-86.R.
Steinberger,  B. Pouliquen, A. Widiger, C. Ignat, T.Erjavec, D.
Tufi?, and D. Varga 2006.
The JRC-Acquis: A multilingual aligned parallel corpus with20+ languages, Proceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC'2006), Genoa.A.
Voutilainen.
1993.
NPtool.
A detector of Englishnoun phrases, Proceedings of the Workshop on VeryLarge Corpora, Columbus, Ohio.66
