Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Morphology and Phonology, pages 134?141,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsCreating a Comparative Dictionary of Totonac-TepehuaGrzegorz KondrakDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of Albertakondrak@cs.ualberta.caDavid BeckDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Albertadbeck@ualberta.caPhilip DiltsDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Albertapdilts@ualberta.caAbstractWe apply algorithms for the identificationof cognates and recurrent sound correspon-dences proposed by Kondrak (2002) to theTotonac-Tepehua family of indigenous lan-guages in Mexico.
We show that by combin-ing expert linguistic knowledge with com-putational analysis, it is possible to quicklyidentify a large number of cognate setswithin the family.
Our objective is to pro-vide tools for rapid construction of com-parative dictionaries for relatively unfamiliarlanguage families.1 IntroductionIdentification of cognates and recurrent sound cor-respondences is a component of two principal tasksof historical linguistics: demonstrating the related-ness of languages, and reconstructing the historiesof language families.
Manually compiling the list ofcognates is an error-prone and time-consuming task.Several methods for constructing comparative dic-tionaries have been proposed and applied to specificlanguage families: Algonquian (Hewson, 1974), Yu-man (Johnson, 1985), Tamang (Lowe and Maza-udon, 1994), and Malayo-Javanic (Oakes, 2000).Most of those methods crucially depend on pre-viously determined regular sound correspondences;each of them was both developed and tested on asingle language family.Kondrak (2002) proposes a number of algorithmsfor automatically detecting and quantifying threecharacteristics of cognates: recurrent sound corre-spondences, phonetic similarity, and semantic affin-ity.
The algorithms were tested on two well-studiedlanguage families: Indo-European and Algonquian.In this paper, we apply them instead to a set of lan-guages whose mutual relationship is still being in-vestigated.
This is consistent with the original re-search goal of providing tools for the analysis ofrelatively unfamiliar languages represented by wordlists.
We show that by combining expert linguisticknowledge with computational analysis, it is possi-ble to quickly identify a large number of cognate setswithin a relatively little-studied language family.The experiments reported in this paper were per-formed in the context of the Upper Necaxa TotonacProject (Beck, 2005), of which one of the authors isthe principal investigator.
Upper Necaxa is a seri-ously endangered language spoken by around 3,400indigenous people in Puebla State, Mexico.
The pri-mary goal of the project is to document the languagethrough the compilation of an extensive dictionaryand other resources, which may aid revitalizationefforts.
One aim of the project is the investigationof the relationship between Upper Necaxa Totonacand the other languages of the Totonac-Tepehua lan-guage family, whose family tree is not yet well-understood.The paper is organized as follows.
In Section 2,we provide background on the Totonac-Tepehuafamily.
Section 3 describes our data sets.
In Sec-tion 4, we outline our algorithms.
In Section 5,we report on a pilot study involving only two lan-guages.
In Section 6, we present the details of oursystem that generates a comparative dictionary in-volving five languages.
Section 7 discusses the prac-tical significance of our project.1342 Totonac-Tepehua Language FamilyThe Totonac-Tepehua language family is an isolategroup of languages spoken by around 200,000 peo-ple in the northern part of Puebla State and theadjacent areas of Veracruz and Hidalgo in East-Central Mexico (Figure 1).
Although individual lan-guages have begun to receive some attention fromlinguists, relatively little is known about the fam-ily as whole: recent estimates put the number oflanguages in the group between 14 and 20, butthe phylo-genetic relations between languages re-mains a subject of some controversy.
The familyhas traditionally been divided into two coordinatebranches: Tepehua, consisting of three languages(Pisa Flores, Tlachichilco, and Huehuetla), and To-tonacan.
The Totonacan branch has in turn been di-vided into four sub-branches: Misantla, Lowlands orPapantla, Sierra, and Northern (Ichon, 1973; Reid,1991), largely on the impressions of missionariesworking in the area.
Some dialectological work hascast doubt on the division between Northern andSierra (Arana, 1953; Rojas, 1978), and groups themtogether into a rather heterogeneous Highland To-tonac, suggesting that this split may be more recentthan the others.
However, the experience of linguistsworking in Totonacan communities, including oneof the authors, indicates that ?
judged by the crite-rion of mutual intelligibility ?
there are likely to bemore, rather than fewer, divisions needed within theTotonacan branch of the family.Although Totonac-Tepehua shows a good dealof internal diversity, the languages that make it upare easily recognizable as a family.
Speakers ofTotonacan languages are aware of having a com-mon historical and linguistic background, and thereare large numbers of easily recognizable cognatesand grammatical similarities.
A typical Totonacanconsonantal inventory, that of the Papantla vari-ant (Levy, 1987), is given in Table 1.
Most lan-guages of the family share this inventory, though oneof the languages used for this study, Upper Necaxa,has undergone a number of phonological shifts thathave affected its consonantal system, most notablythe collapse of the voiceless lateral affricate with thevoiceless lateral fricative (both are now fricatives)and the lenition of the uvular stop to a glottal stop,a process that has also affected at least some of theFigure 1: Totonac-Tepehua language area indicatingtraditional taxonomic divisions.Tepehua languages.
In Upper Necaxa, this lenitionhas also resulted in the creation of ejective frica-tives from historical stop-uvular stop clusters (Beck,2006).
Languages also differ as to whether theback-fricative consonant is /h/ or /x/, and some lan-guages have evolved voiceless /w/ and/or voiceless/y/ phonemes in word-final position.
The phonemicstatus of the glottal stop is an open question in sev-eral of the languages.Plosive p t k qAffricate ?
t?
?Fricative s ?
S hApproximant w l jNasal m n ?Table 1: Illustrative Totonac-Tepehua consonantalinventory.In terms of vocalic inventory, it was previouslythought that all Totonacan languages had three-vowel systems (/a/, /i/, /u/), and that they also madedistinctions for each vowel quality in vowel lengthand laryngealization.
It has since come to lightthat at least some languages in the Sierra groupdo not make length distinctions (in at least one ofthese, Olintla, it appears that short vowels have de-veloped into a phonemic schwa), and that othersdo not distinguish laryngealized vowels.
A numberof languages, including Upper Necaxa and some ofthe languages adjacent to it, have developed a five-135vowel system; the sounds /e/ and /o/ are recognizedin the orthographies of several languages of the fam-ily even where their phonemic status is in doubt.3 DataThere are five languages included in this study:Tlachichilco (abbreviated T), Upper Necaxa (U),Papantla (P), Coyutla (C), and Zapotitla?n (S).Tlachichilco belongs to the Tepehua branch; theother four are from the Totonacan branch.
Zapotitla?nis traditionally considered to belong to the Sierragroup of Totonacan, whereas the status of Coyutlais uncertain.
The location of each language is indi-cated by grey lozenges on Figure 1.The data comes from several diverse sources.
TheTlachichilco Tepehua data are drawn from an elec-tronic lexical database provided to the authors byJames Watters of the Summer Institute of Linguis-tics.
The data on Upper Necaxa was collected byBeck in the communities of Patla and Chicontla ?located in the so-called Northern Totonac area ?and data from the Papantla area was provided byPaulette Levy of the National Autonomous Univer-sity of Mexico based on her field work in the vicin-ity of the city of Papantla.
Data on the remain-ing two languages were provided by Herman As-chmann.
The material from Coyutla was drawn froma word list compiled for Bible translation and theZapotitla?n material has been published in dictionaryform (Aschmann, 1983).
The glosses of Totonacforms for all the languages are in Spanish.The dictionaries differ significantly in format andcharacter encoding.
The Tepehua and Coyutla dic-tionaries are in a file format and character encodingused by the Shoebox program.
The Upper Necaxaand the Zapotitla?n dictionaries are in their own for-mats and character encodings.
The Papantla dictio-nary is in the RTF format.
The dictionaries also dif-fer in orthographies used.
For example, while mostdictionaries use k to represent a voiceless velar stop,the Coyutla dictionary uses c.4 MethodsIn this section, we briefly outline the algorithms em-ployed for computing three similarity scores: pho-netic, semantic and correspondence-based.
Our cog-nate identification program integrates the three typesof evidence using a linear combination of scores.The algorithms are described in detail in (Kondrak,2002).The phonetic similarity of lexemes is computedusing the ALINE algorithm, which assigns a similar-ity score to pairs of phonetically-transcribed wordson the basis of the decomposition of phonemes intoelementary phonetic features.
The principal compo-nent of ALINE is a function that calculates the sim-ilarity of two phonemes that are expressed in termsof about a dozen multi-valued phonetic features.
Forexample, the phoneme n, which is usually describedas a voiced alveolar nasal stop, has the followingfeature values: Place = 0.85, Manner = 0.6, Voice =1, and Nasal = 1, with the remaining features set to0.
The numerical feature values reflect the distancesbetween vocal organs during speech production, andare based on experimental measurements.
The pho-netic features are assigned salience weights that ex-press their relative importance.
The default saliencevalues were tuned manually on a development setof phoneme-aligned cognate pairs from various re-lated languages.
The overall similarity score is thesum of individual similarity scores between pairs ofphonemes in an optimal alignment of two words.The similarity value is normalized by the length ofthe longer word.1For the determination of recurrent sound corre-spondences we employ the method of inducing atranslation model between phonemes in two wordlists.
The idea is to relate recurrent sound correspon-dences in word lists to translational equivalences inbitexts.
The translation model is induced by com-bining the maximum similarity alignment with thecompetitive linking algorithm of Melamed (2000).Melamed?s approach is based on the one-to-one as-sumption, which implies that every word in the bi-text is aligned with at most one word on the otherside of the bitext.
In the context of the bilingualword lists, the correspondences determined underthe one-to-one assumption are restricted to link sin-gle phonemes to single phonemes.
Nevertheless, themethod is powerful enough to determine valid cor-respondences in word lists in which the fraction ofcognate pairs is well below 50%.1Another possibility is normalization by the length of thelongest alignment (Heeringa et al, 2006).136Because of the lack of a Totonac gold standard,the approach to computing semantic similarity ofglosses was much simpler than in (Kondrak, 2002).The keyword selection heuristic was simply to pickthe first word of the gloss, which in Spanish glossesis often a noun followed by modifiers.
A completegloss match was given double the weight of a key-word match.
More complex semantic relations werenot considered.
In the future, we plan to utilize aSpanish part-of-speech tagger, and the Spanish por-tion of the EuroWordNet in order to improve the ac-curacy of the semantic module.5 Pairwise ComparisonThe first experiment was designed to test the effec-tiveness of our approach in identifying recurrent cor-respondences and cognates across a single pair ofrelated languages.
The data for the experiment waslimited to two noun lists representing Upper Necaxa(2110 lexemes) and Zapotitla?n (763 lexemes), whichwere extracted from the corresponding dictionaries.Both correspondences and cognates were evaluatedby one of the authors (Beck), who is an expert on theTotonac-Tepehua language family.5.1 Identification of correspondencesIn the first experiment, our correspondence identi-fication program was applied to Upper Necaxa andZapotitla?n.
Simple correspondences were targeted,as complex correspondences do not seem to be veryfrequent among the Totonac languages.
The inputfor the program was created by extracting all pairsof noun lexemes with identical glosses from the twodictionaries.
The resulting list of 865 word pairs waslikely to contain more unrelated word pairs than ac-tual cognates.2The results of the experiment were very encour-aging.
Of the 24 correspondences posited by theprogram, 22 were judged as completely correct,while the remaining two (?:?
and t?:?).
werejudged as ?plausible but surprising?.
Since the pro-gram explicitly list the word pairs from which itextracts correspondences, they were available fora more detailed analysis.
Of the five pairs con-taining ?
:?, one was judged as possibly cognate:2Some lexemes have multiple glosses, and therefore mayparticipate in several word pairs.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.910  100  200  300  400  500  600  700Cutoff"cumulative precision""subset precision"Figure 2: Cognate identification precision on the To-tonac test set.Upper Necaxa [?astun] and Zapotitla?n [aPa?astun]?rinco?n, esquina?.
Both word pairs containing t?
:?were judged as possibly cognate: [lit?an]/[li?eX]?favor?, and [t?aqt?a]/[?a?a] ?elote?.
Both unex-pected correspondences were deemed to merit fur-ther linguistic investigation.5.2 Identification of cognatesIn the second experiment, our cognate identificationprogram was run on the vocabulary lists containingthe Upper Necaxa and Zapotitla?n nouns.
A large listof the candidate word pairs with their glosses wassorted by the total similarity score and evaluated byBeck.
The cognation judgments were performed inorder, starting from the top of the list, until the pro-portion of false positives became too high to justifyfurther effort.
At any point of the list, we can com-pute precision, which is the ratio of true positives (inthis case, cognates) to the sum of true positives andfalse positives (all word pairs up to that point).The cognate decisions were based on the follow-ing principles.
The pairs could be judged as truepositives only if the word roots were cognate; shar-ing an affix was not deemed sufficient.
Compoundwords were counted as cognates if any of the mul-tiple roots were related; for example, both snow-storm/storm and snowstorm/snow would be accept-able.
The rationale is that a person compiling anetymological dictionary would still want to knowabout such pairs whether or not they are eventuallyincluded as entries in the dictionary.In total, 711 pairs were evaluated, of which 350137were classified as cognate, 351 as unrelated, and10 as doubtful.
18 of the positive judgments weremarked as loans from Spanish.
In Figure 2, theboxes correspond to the precision values for theseven sets of 100 candidate pairs each, sorted byscore; the curve represents the cumulative precision.For example, the percentage of actual cognates was86.9% among the first 300 word pairs, and 72.4%among the word pairs numbered 201?300.
As canbe seen, almost all the pairs in the beginning of thefile were cognates, but then the number of false pos-itives increases steadily.
In terms of semantic sim-ilarity, 30% of the evaluated pairs had at least onegloss in common, and further 7% shared a keyword.Among the pairs judged as cognate, the respectivepercentages were 49% and 11%.6 Multiwise comparisonWhen data from several related languages is avail-able, the challenge is to identify cognate sets acrossall languages.
Our goal was to take a set of diverselyformatted dictionaries as input, and generate fromthem, as automatically as possible, a basic compara-tive dictionary.Our system is presented graphically in Figure 3.This system is a suite of Perl scripts and C++ pro-grams.
With the exception of the input dictionaryconverters, the system is language-family indepen-dent.
With little change, it could be used to deter-mine cognate sets from another language family.
Inthis section, we describe the four stages of the pro-cess: preprocessing, identification of cognate pairs,extraction of cognate sets, and postprocessing.6.1 PreprocessingThe first step is to convert each input dictionary fromits original form into a word list in a standardizedformat.
Because of the differences between dictio-naries, separate conversion scripts are required foreach language.
The conversion scripts call on anumber of utilities that are maintained in a sharedlibrary of functions, which allows for the relativelyeasy development of new conversion scripts shouldadditional dictionaries become available.Each line in the resulting language files containsthe phonetic form of the lexeme expressed in a uni-form encoding, followed a gloss representing theFigure 3: Flowchart illustrating conversion system138meaning of the lexeme.
Long glosses are truncatedto thirty characters, with sub-glosses separated bysemicolons.
For the present study, the conversionscripts also removed all dictionary entries that wereknown not to be nouns.For the purpose of uniform encoding of phoneticsymbols, we adopted the ALINE scheme (Kondrak,2002), in which every phonetic symbol is repre-sented by a single lowercase letter followed by zeroor more uppercase letters.
The initial lowercase let-ter is the base letter most similar to the sound rep-resented by the phonetic symbol.
The remaininguppercase letters stand for the phonetic features inwhich the represented sound differs from the sounddefined by the base letter.
For example, the phoneme[S], which occurs at the beginning of the word shy,is represented by ?sV?, where V stands for palato-alveolar.6.2 Identification of cognate pairsThe main C++ program computes the similarity ofeach pair of words across the two languages usingthe methods described in Section 4.
A batch scriptruns the comparison program on each pair of the dic-tionary lists.
With n input dictionaries, this entails(n2)pairwise comparisons each resulting in a sepa-rate list of possible cognate pairs.
These lists arethen sorted and trimmed to include only those pairsthat exceeded a certain similarity threshold.The batch script has an option of selecting a sub-set of dictionary pairs to process, which was founduseful in several cases.
For example, when we dis-cover a newer version of a dictionary, or updatean individual dictionary conversion script, only 4,rather than all 10 lists need to be re-generated.6.3 Extraction of cognate setsThe output from processing individual pairs of wordlists must be combined in order to extract cognatesets across all languages.
The combination scriptgenerates an undirected weighted graph in whicheach vertex represents a single lexeme.
The sourcelanguage of each lexeme is also stored in each ver-tex.
Links between vertices correspond to possi-ble cognate relationships identified in the previousstage, with the link weights set according to the sim-ilarity scores computed by the comparison program.The algorithm for extracting cognate sets fromFigure 4: A sample judgment screen.the graph is the following.
First, we find the con-nected components within the graph by applying thebreadth-first search algorithm.
The components areadded to a queue.
For each component in the queue,we exhaustively generate a list of connected sub-graphs in which each vertex corresponds to a dif-ferent source language.
(In the present study, theminimum size of a subgraph was set to three, andthe maximum size was five, the total number of lan-guages.)
If no such subgraphs exist, we discard thecomponent, and process the next component fromthe queue.
Otherwise, the subgraph with the max-imum cumulative weight is selected as the mostlikely cognate set.
We remove from the componentthe vertices corresponding to that cognate set, to-gether with their incident edges, which may causethe component to lose its connectivity.
We identifythe resulting connected component(s) by breadth-first search, and place them at the end of the queue.We repeat the process until the queue is empty.6.4 PostprocessingThe candidate cognate sets extracted in the previ-ous stage are rendered into an HTML page designedto allow an expert linguist to verify their correct-ness (Figure 4).
After the verification, a dictionarycomposed of the confirmed cognate sets is automat-ically generated in HTML format, with the glossesrestored to their original, untruncated form.
Addi-tional cognate sets can be incorporated seamlesslyinto the existing list.
A sample entry in the gener-139C li:qama:n el juguete; hace burlade elT laaqamaan el juguete317 S li:qama:n el juego; el juguete; lomaltrata; le hace burlaU le:ha:ma:n jugueteP li:qama:n el jugueteTable 2: A sample entry in the generated dictionary.ated dictionary is shown in Table 2.36.5 ResultsIn our initial attempt to extract cognate sets from thegraph, we extracted from the graph only those con-nected components that were complete cliques (i.e.,fully connected subgraphs).
Of the resulting 120candidate cognate sets, all but one were confirmedby Beck.
The only false positive involved two wordsthat were true cognates, and one word that was mor-phologically related to the other two.
However, al-though this method was characterized by a very highprecision, the overly restrictive clique condition ex-cluded a large number of interesting cognate sets.In order to improve recall, the method describedin Section 6.3 was adopted.
430 possible cognatesets of 3, 4, or 5 words were discovered in this man-ner.
384 (89%) of these sets were judged to be truecognate sets.
Of the remaining 46 sets, 45 containedpartial cognate sets.
The set that contained no cog-nate words was composed of three words that sharea cognate root, but have different prefixes.7 DiscussionFrom a practical standpoint, the procedures usedin these experiments provide a powerful tool forthe identification of cognate sets and sound cor-respondences.
The identification of these corre-spondences by traditional means is cumbersome andtime-consuming, given the large amounts of datathat require processing.
The Upper Necaxa dic-tionary, for instance, contains nearly 9,000 entries,fromwhich a list of about 2,000 nouns would have tobe extracted by hand, and then compared pairwise tolists drawn from dictionaries of potentially compa-3The entire dictionary in its current state can be viewed athttp://www.cs.ualberta.ca/?pdilts.rable length of each of the other languages, each ofwhich would also have to be compared to the other.Lists of potential correspondences from each pair-wise comparison would then have to be compared,and so on.
The algorithms described here accom-plish in mere minutes what would take man-hours(perhaps years) of expert labour to accomplish man-ually, outputting the results in a format that is eas-ily accessed and shared with other researchers asan HTML-format list of cognates that can be madeavailable on the World Wide Web.The results obtained from a study of this typehave important implications for linguists, as wellas anthropologists and archeologists interested inthe history and migratory patterns of peoples speak-ing Totonacan languages.
Presented with extensiveand robust cognate sets and lists of sound changes,linguists gain insight into the patterns of histori-cal phonological change and can verify or discon-firm models of phonological and typological devel-opment.
These data can also give rough indica-tions of the time-depth of the linguistic family and,potentially, suggest geographical origins of popula-tions.
At present, Totonac-Tepehua has not beendemonstrably linked to any other language familyin Mesoamerica.
Careful reconstruction of a proto-language might reveal such links and, possibly, shedsome light on the early movements and origins ofMesoamerican peoples.These experiments have also allowed us to createthe beginnings of an etymological dictionary whichwill, in turn, allow us to reconstruct a more accu-rate Totonac-Tepehua family tree.
By comparing therelative numbers of shared cognates amongst lan-guages and the number of regular sound changesshared by individual subsets of languages in eachcognate set, we hope to be able to determine relativeproximity of languages and the order in which thefamily divided itself into branches, sub-branches,and individual languages.
This will shed light on theproblem of Totonac-Tepehua origins and migratorypatterns, and may help to answer questions about po-tential links of Totonacan peoples to archeologicalsites in East-Central Mexico, including the pyramidsof Teotihuaca?n.
Accurate determination of distancebetween variants of Totonacan will also help informsocial policy decisions about bilingual education andgovernment funding for language revitalization pro-140grams, as well as debates about orthographies andlanguage standardization.AcknowledgementsThanks to Paulette Levy, James Watters, and Her-man Aschmann for sharing their dictionary data.The fieldwork of David Beck was funded by the So-cial Sciences and Humanities Research Council ofCanada and the Wenner-Gren Foundation.
PhilipDilts was supported by a scholarship provided by theGovernment of the Province of Alberta.
GrzegorzKondrak was supported by the Natural Sciences andEngineering Research Council of Canada.ReferencesEvangelina Arana.
1953.
Reconstruccio?n del proto-tonaco.
Huastecos, totonacos y sus vecinos.
Revistamexicana de estudios antropolo?gicos, 23:123?130.Herman P. Aschmann.
1983.
Vocabulario totonaco de laSierra.
Summer Institute of Linguistics, Mexico.David Beck.
2005.
The Upper Necaxa fieldproject II: the structure and acquisition ofan endangered language.
Available fromhttp://www.arts.ualberta.ca/?totonaco.David Beck.
2006.
The emergence of ejective fricativesin Upper Necaxa Totonac.
In Robert Kirchner, editor,University of Alberta Working Papers in Linguistics 1.Wilbert Heeringa, Peter Kleiwig, Charlotte Gooskens,and John Nerbonne.
2006.
Evaluation of string dis-tance algorithms for dialectology.
In Proceedings ofthe COLING-ACL Workshop on Linguistic Distances,pages 51?62.John Hewson.
1974.
Comparative reconstruction onthe computer.
In Proceedings of the 1st InternationalConference on Historical Linguistics, pages 191?197.Alain Ichon.
1973.
La religio?n de los totonacos de laSierra.
Instituto Nacional Indigenista, Mexico City.Mark Johnson.
1985.
Computer aids for comparativedictionaries.
Linguistics, 23(2):285?302.Grzegorz Kondrak.
2002.
Algorithms for Language Re-construction.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Toronto.Paulette Levy.
1987.
Fonolog?
?a del totonaco de Pa-pantla.
Universidad Nacional Auto?noma de Me?xico,Veracruz, Mexico.John B. Lowe and Martine Mazaudon.
1994.
The re-construction engine: a computer implementation ofthe comparative method.
Computational Linguistics,20:381?417.I.
Dan Melamed.
2000.
Models of translational equiv-alence among words.
Computational Linguistics,26(2):221?249.Michael P. Oakes.
2000.
Computer estimation of vocab-ulary in protolanguage from word lists in four daugh-ter languages.
Journal of Quantitative Linguistics,7(3):233?243.Aileen A. Reid.
1991.
Grama?tica totonaca de Xicotepecde Jua?rez, Puebla.
Summer Institute of Linguistics,Mexico City.Garc?
?a Rojas.
1978.
Dialectolog?
?a de la zona totonaco-tepehua.
Ph.D. thesis, National School of Anthropol-ogy and History, Mexico.
Honours thesis.141
