Proceedings of the Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage Data (LaTeCH 2007), pages 49?56,Prague, 28 June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsDynamic Path Prediction and Recommendation in a Museum EnvironmentKarl Grieser?
?, Timothy Baldwin?
and Steven Bird??
CSSEUniversity of MelbourneVIC 3010, Australia?
DISUniversity of MelbourneVIC 3010, Australia{kgrieser,tim,sb}@csse.unimelb.edu.auAbstractThis research is concerned with makingrecommendations to museum visitorsbased on their history within the physicalenvironment, and textual informationassociated with each item in their history.We investigate a method of providingsuch recommendations to users througha combination of language modellingtechniques, geospatial modelling ofthe physical space, and observation ofsequences of locations visited by otherusers in the past.
This study comparesand analyses different methods of pathprediction including an adapted naiveBayes method, document similarity, visitorfeedback and measures of lexical similarity.1 IntroductionVisitors to an information rich environment such asa museum, are invariably there for a reason, be itentertainment or education.
The visitor has paidtheir admission fee, and we can assume they intendto get the most out of their visit.
As with otherinformation rich environments and systems, first-time visitors to the museum are at a disadvantage asthey are not familiar with every aspect of the collec-tion.
Conversely, the museum is severely restrictedin the amount of information it can convey to thevisitor in the physical space.The use of a dynamic, intuitive interface can over-come some of these issues (Filippini, 2003; Benfordet al, 2001).
Such an interface would convention-ally take the form of a tour guide, audio tour, or acurator stationed at points throughout the museum.This research is built around the assumption that themuseum visitor has access to a digital device suchas a PDA and that it is possible for automatic sys-tems to interact with the user via this device.
In thisway we aim to be able to deliver relevant contentto the museum visitor based on observation of theirmovements within the physical museum space, aswell as make recommendations of what exhibits theymight like to visit next and why.
At present, we arefocusing exclusively on the task of recommendation.Recommendations can be used to convey predic-tions about what theme or topic a given visitor isinterested in.
They can also help to communicateunexpected connections between exhibits (Hitzemanet al, 1997), or explicitly introduce variety into thevisit.
For the purposes of this research, we focuson this first task of providing recommendations con-sistent with the visitor?s observed behaviour to thatpoint.
We investigate different factors which wehypothesise impact on the determination of whatexhibits a given visitor will visit, namely: the phys-ical proximity of exhibits, the conceptual similarityof exhibits, and the relative sequence in which othervisitors have visited exhibits.Recommendation systems in physical environ-ments are notoriously hard to evaluate, as therecommendation system is only one of many stimuliwhich go to determine the actual behaviour of thevisitor.
In order to evaluate the relative impactof different factors in determining actual visitorbehaviour, we separate the stimuli present intoa range of predictive methods.
In this paper wetarget the task of user prediction, that is predictionof what exhibit a visitor will visit next based on49their previous history.
Language based models areintended to simulate a potentially unobservablesource of information: the visitor?s thought process.In order to identify the reason for the visitor?sinterest in the multiple part exhibits we parallel thisproblem with the task of word sense disambiguation(WSD).
Determining the visitor?s reason for visitingan exhibit allows a predictive system to moreaccurately model the visitor?s future path.This study aims to arrive at accurate methods ofpredicting how a user will act in an information-richmuseum.
The space focused on in this research isthe Australia Gallery Collection of the MelbourneMuseum, at Carlton Gardens in Melbourne,Australia.
The predictions take the form of whichexhibits a visitor will visit given a history ofpreviously visited exhibits.
This study analysesand compares the effectiveness of supervised andunsupervised learning methods in the museumdomain, drawing on a range of linguistic andgeospatial features.
A core contribution ofthis study is its focus on the relative import ofheterogeneous information sources a user makesuse of in selecting the next exhibit to visit.2 Problem DescriptionIn order to recommend exhibits to visitors while theyare going through a museum, the recommendationsneed to be accurate/pertinent to the goals that thevisitor has in mind.
Without accurate recomme nda-tions, recommendations given to a visitor are essen-tially useless, and might as well not have been rec-ommended at all.Building a recommender system based on contex-tual information (Resnick and Varian, 1997) is theultimate goal of this research.
However the envi-ronment in this circumstance is physical, and theactions of visitors are expected to vary within sucha space, as opposed to the usual online or digitaldomain of recommender systems.
Studies such asHIPS (Benelli et al, 1999) and the Equator project1have analysed the importance and difficulty of inte-grating the virtual environment into the physical, aswell as identifying how non-physical navigation sys-tems can relate to similar physical systems.
For thepurpose of this study, it is sufficient to acknowledge1http://www.equator.ac.ukthe effect of the physical environment by scaling allrecommendations against their distances from oneanother.The common information that museum exhibitscontain is key in determining how each individualrelates to each other exhibit in the collection.
Atthe most basic level, the exhibits are simply isolatedelements that share no relationship with one another,their only similarity being that they occur togetherin visitor paths.
This interpretation disregards anymeaning or content that each exhibit contains.
Butmuseum exhibits are created with the goal of pro-viding information, and to disregard the content ofan exhibit is to disregard its purpose.An exhibit in a museum may be many kinds ofthings, and hence most exhibits will differ in presen-tation and content.
The target audience of a museumis one indicator of the type of content that can beexpected within each exhibit.
An art gallery is com-prised of mainly paintings and sculptures: singlecomponent exhibits with brief descriptions.
A chil-dren?s museum will contain a high proportion ofinteractive exhibits, and much audio and visual con-tent.
In these two cases the reason for visiting theexhibit differs greatly.Given the diversity of information containedwithin each exhibit and the greater diversity of amuseum collection, it can be difficult to see whyvisitors only examine certain exhibits during theirtours.
It is very difficult to perceive what a visitor?sintention is without constant feedback, making theproblem of providing relevant recommendations aquestion of predicting what a visitor is interested inbased on characteristics of exhibits the visitor hasalready seen.
The use of both physical attributes andexhibit information content are used in conjunctionin an effort to account for multiple possible reasonsfor visiting as exhibit.
Connections betweenphysical attributes of an exhibit are easier to identifythan connections based on information content.This is due to the large quantity of informationassociated with each exhibit, and the difficulty indetermining what the visitor liked (or disliked)about the exhibit.In order to make prediction based on a visitor?shistory, the importance of the exhibits in the visi-tors path must be known.
This is difficult to obtaindirectly without the aid of real-time feedback from50the user themselves.
In an effort to emulate thedifficulty of observing mental processes adopted byeach visitor, language based predictive models areemployed.3 ResourcesThe domain in which all experimentation takes placeis the Australia Gallery of the Melbourne Museum.This exhibition provides a history of the city of Mel-bourne Melbourne, from its settlement up to thepresent day, and includes such exhibits as the taxi-dermised coat of Phar Lap (Australia?s most famousrace horse) and CSIRAC (Australia?s first, and theworld?s fourth, computer).
The Gallery containsenough variation so that not all exhibits can be clas-sified into a single category, but is sufficiently spe-cialised to offer much interaction and commonalitybetween the exhibits.The exhibits within the Australia Gallery takea wide variety of forms, from single items witha description plaque, to multiple component dis-plays with interactivity and audio-visual enhance-ment; note, for our purposes in experimentation,we do not differentiate between exhibit types ormodalities.
The movement of visitors within anexhibition can be restricted if the positioning of theexhibits require visitors to take a set path (Peponiset al, 2004), which can alter how a visitor choosesbetween exhibits to view.
In the case of the AustraliaGallery, however, the collection is spread out overa sizeable area, and has an open plan design suchthat visitor movement is not restricted or funnelledthrough certain areas and there is no predeterminedsequence or selection of exhibits that a given visitorcan be expected to spend time at.We used several techniques to represent the dif-ferent aspects of each exhibit.
We categorised eachexhibit by way of its physical attributes (e.g.
size)and taxonomic information about the exhibit con-tent (e.g.
clothing or animal).
We also describedeach exhibit by way of its physical location withinthe Australia Gallery, relative to a floorplan of theGallery.The Melbourne Museum also has a sizableweb-site2 which contains much detailed informationabout the exhibits within the Australia Gallery.
This2http://www.museum.vic.gov.au/data is extremely useful in that it provides a richvocabulary of information based on the contentof each exhibit.
Each exhibit identified within theAustralia Gallery has a corresponding web-pagedescribing it.
The information content of an exhibitis made up of the text in its corresponding web-pagecombined with its attributes.
By having a largesource of natural language information associatedwith the exhibit, linguistic based predictive methodscan more accurately identify the associations madeby visitors.The dataset that forms that basis of this researchis a database of 60 visitor paths through the Aus-tralia Gallery, which was collected by MelbourneMuseum staff over a period of four months towardsthe end of 2001.
The Australia Gallery contains atotal of fifty-three exhibits.
This data is used to eval-uate both physical and conceptual predictive meth-ods.
If predictive methods are able to accuratelydescribe how a visitor travels in a museum, thenthe predictive method creates an accurate model ofvisitor behaviour.Exhibit components can be combined to form adescription for each exhibit.
For this purpose, theNatural Language Toolkit 3 (Bird, 2005) was usedto analyse and compare the lexical content associ-ated with each exhibit, so that relationships betweenexhibits can be identified.4 MethodologyAnalysis of user history as a method of prediction(or recommendation) has been examined inChalmers et al (1998).
Also discussed is therole that user history plays in anticipating usergoals.
This approach can be adapted to a physicalenvironment by simply substituting in locationsvisited in place of web pages visited.
Data gatheredfrom the paths of previous visitors also forms a validmeans of predicting other visitors?
paths (Zukermanand Albrecht, 2001).
This approach operates underthe assumption that all visitors behave in a similarfashion when visiting a museum.
However visitors?goals in visiting a museum can differ widely.
Forexample, the goals of a student researching a projectwill differ to those of a family with young childrenon a weekend outing.3http://nltk.sourceforge.net/51A conceptual model of the exhibition space is cre-ated by visitors with a specific task in mind.
Inter-pretation of this conceptual model is key to creatingaccurate recommendations.
The building of such aconceptual model takes place from the moment avisitor enters an exhibition, until the time they leave,and skews the visitor towards groups of conceptuallocations and categories.The representation of these intrinsically dynamicmodels is directly related to the task the visitor hasin mind.
Students will form a conceptual modelbased around their course requirements, childrenaround the most visually attractive exhibits, andso forth.
This necessitates the need for multipleexhibit similarity measures, however in the absenceof express knowledge of the ?type?
of each visitor inthe sample data, a broad-coverage recommendationsystem that functions best in all circumstances is thedesired goal.
It is hoped that in future, reevaluationof the data to classify visitors into broad categories(e.g.
information seeking, entertainment seeking)will allow for the development of specialisedmodels tailored to visitor types.The models of exhibit representation we exam-ine in this research are exhibit proximity, text-basedexhibit information content, and exhibit popularity(based on the previous visitor data provided by theMelbourne Museum), as well as combinations of thethree.
Exhibit information content is a two part rep-resentation: primarily each exhibit has a large bodyof text describing the exhibit drawn from the Mel-bourne Museum website.
It is fortunate that thisinformation is curated, and managed from a cen-tral source, so that inconsistencies between exhibitinformation are extremely rare.
The authors wereunable to find any contradictory information in theweb-pages used for experimentation, as may be thecase with larger non-curated document bodies.
Thesecond component of the information content is asmall set of key terms describing the attributes ofthe exhibit.
Textual content as a means of deter-mining exhibit similarity has been analysed previ-ously (Green et al, 1999), both in terms of keywordattributes and bodies of explanatory text.In order to form a prediction about which exhibita visitor will next visit, the probability of the tran-sition of the visitor from their current location toevery other exhibit in the collection must be known.Prediction of the next exhibit by proximity simplymeans choosing the closest not-yet-visited exhibit tothe visitor?s current location.
In terms of informationcontent, each exhibit is related to all other exhibits toa certain degree.
To express this we use the attributekeywords as a query to find the exhibit most simi-lar.
We use the attribute keywords associated witheach document to search the document space of theexhibits to find the exhibit that is most similar to theexhibit the visitor is currently located at.
To do thiswe use a simple tf?idf scheme, using the attributekeywords as the queries, and the exhibit associatedweb pages as the document space.
The score of eachquery over each document is normalised into a tran-sitional probability array such that?j P (q|dj) = 1for a query (q) over the j exhibit documents (dj).In order to determine the popularity of anexhibit, the visitor paths provided by the MelbourneMuseum were used to form another matrix oftransitional probabilities based on the likelihoodthat a visitor will travel to an exhibit from theexhibit they are currently at.
I.e.
for each exhibit ean array of transitional probabilities is formed suchthat?j P (e|cj) = 1 where cj ?
C ?
= C/{e}, i.e.all exhibits other than e. In both cases Laplaciansmoothing was used to remove zero probabilities.The methods of exhibit popularity and physicalproximity are superficial in scope and do not extendinto the conceptual space adopted by the visitors.They do however give insight into how a physicalspace affects a visitors?
mental representation of theconceptual areas associated with specific exhibit col-lections, and are more easily observable.
Visitorreaction to exhibit information content is harder toobserve and more problematic to predict.
Any accu-rate recommender systems produced in this fashionwill need to take into account the limitations thesetwo methods place on the thought processes of visi-tors.Connections that visitors make between exhibitsare more fluid, and are harder to represent in termsof similarity measures.
Specifically it is difficult tosee why visitors make connections between exhibitsas there can be multiple similarities between twoexhibits.
To this end we have equated this prob-lem with the task of Word Sense Disambiguation(WSD).
The path that a visitor takes can be seenas a sentence of exhibits, and each exhibit in the52sentence has an associated meaning.
WSD is usedto determine the meaning of the next exhibit basedon the meanings of previous exhibits in the path.
Foreach word in the keyword set of each exhibit, theWordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) similarity is calculatedagainst each word in another exhibit.
The similar-ity is the sum of the WordNet similarities betweenall attribute keywords in the two exhibits (K1, K2),normalised over the length of both keyword sets:?k1?K1?k2?K2 WNsim(k1, k2)|K1||K2|For the purposes of this experiment we havechosen to use three WordNet similarity/relatednessmeasures to simulate the conceptual connectionsthat visitors make between exhibits.
The Lin (Lin,1998) and Leacock-Chodorow (Leacock et al,1998) similarity measures and the Banerjee-Pedersen (Patwardhan and Pedersen, 2003)relatedness measures were used.
The similaritieswere normalised and transformed into probabilitymatrices such that?j PWNsim(e|cj) = 1 for eachnext exhibit ci.
The use of WordNet measures isintended to simulate the mental connections thatvisitors make between exhibit content, given thateach visit can interpret content in a number ofdifferent ways.The history of the visitor at any given time isessential in keeping the visitor?s conceptual modelof the exhibit space current.
The recency of a givenexhibit within a visitor?s history is inversely propor-tional to how long ago the exhibit was encountered.To take into account the visitor history, the col-laborative data, proximity, document vectors, andconceptual WordNet similarity, we adapt the naiveBayes approach.
The conditional probabilities ofeach method are combined along with the temporalrecency of an exhibit to produce a predictive exhibitrecommender.
The resultant recommendation to avisitor can be described as follows:c?
= arg maxciP (ci)t?j=1P (Aj |ci) ?
2?
(t?j+1) +2?ttwhere t is the length of the visitor?s history, Aj ?
Cis an exhibit at time j in the visitor history (and Cis the full set of exhibits), and ci ?
C ?
= C/{Aj}is each unvisited exhibit.
The most probable nextexhibit (c?)
is selected from all possible next exhibits(ci).
Any selections made must be compared againstthe visitor?s history.
In this, we assume that a pre-viously visited exhibit has already been seen, andhence should not be recommended again.The effectiveness of these methods was tested inmultiple combinations, both with history modelingand without (only the exhibit the visitor is currentlyat is considered).
Testing was carried out usingthe sixty visitor paths supplied by the MelbourneMuseum.
For each method two tests were carriedout:?
Predict the next exhibit in the visitor?s path.?
Only make a prediction if the probability of theprediction is above a given threshold.Each path was analysed independently of the oth-ers, and the resulting recommendations evaluated asa whole.
The measures of precision and recall inthe evaluation of recommender systems has beenapplied effectively in previous studies (Raskutti etal., 1997; Basu et al, 1998).
In the second testprecision is the measure we are primarily concernedwith: it is not the aim of this recommender system topredict all elements of a visitor?s path in the correctorder.
The correctness of the exhibits predicted ismore important than the quantity of the predictionsthe visitor visits, hence only exhibits predicted witha (relatively) high probability are included in thefinal list of predicted exhibits for that visitor.The thresholds are designed to increase the cor-rectness of the predictions, by only making a pre-diction if there is a high probability of the visitortravelling to the exhibit.
As all predictive methodschoose the most probable transition from all possibletransitions, the transition with the highest probabil-ity is always selected.
The threshold values simplycut off all probabilities below a certain value.5 Results and EvaluationThe first tests carried out were done only using thesimple probability matrices described in Section 4,and hence only use the information associated withthe visitor?s current location and not the entirety oftheir history.
The baseline method being used in alltesting is the naive method of moving to the closestnot-yet-visited exhibit.53Method BOE AccuracyProximity (baseline) 0.270 0.192Popularity 0.406 0.313Tf?Idf 0.130 0.018Lin 0.129 0.039Leacock-Chodorow 0.116 0.024Banerjee-Pedersen 0.181 0.072Popularity - Tf?Idf 0.196 0.093Popularity - Lin 0.225 0.114Popularity - Leacock-Chodorow 0.242 0.130Popularity - Banerjee-Pedersen 0.163 0.064Proximity - Tf?Idf 0.205 0.084Proximity - Lin 0.180 0.114Proximity - Leacock-Chodorow 0.220 0.151Proximity - Banerjee-Pedersen 0.205 0.105Proximity - Popularity 0.232 0.129Table 1: Single exhibit history using individual andcombined transitional probabilitiesIn order to prevent specialisation of the methodsover the training data (the aforementioned 60 visitorpaths), 60 fold cross-validation was used.
With thepath being used as the test case removed from thetraining data at each iteration.The results of prediction using only the currentexhibit as information can be seen in Table 1.
Com-binations of predictive methods are also included toadd physical environment factors to conceptual sim-ilarity methods.
For example, if two exhibits maybe highly related conceptually but on opposite sidesof the exhibit space, a visitor may forgo the distantexhibit in favour of a closer exhibit that is slightlyless relevant.Due to the lengths of the recommendation setsmade for each visitor (a recommendation is madefor each exhibit visited), precision and recall areidentical.
The measure of Bag Of Exhibits (BOE)describes the percentage of exhibits that were visitedby the visitor, but not necessarily in the same orderas they were recommended.
The BOE measure isthe same as measuring precision and recall for thepurposes of this evaluation.
With the introduction ofthresholds to improve precision, precision and recallare measured as separate entities.As seen in Table 1 the performance of theconceptual or information similarity methods(the tf?idf method, Lin, Leacock-Chodorow andBanerjee-Pedersen) is worse than that of themethods based on static features of the exhibits,and all perform worse than the baseline.
Inorder to produce a higher percentage of correctrecommendations, thresholds were introduced.Using thresholds, a recommendation is only madeif the probability of a visitor visiting an exhibit nextis above a given percentage.
The thresholds usedin Table 2 are arbitrary, and were arrived at afterexperimentation.It is worth noting that in both tests, with andwithout thresholds, the method of exhibit popularitybased on visitor paths is the most successful.
Oneexpects this trend to continue with the introductionof the history based model described in Section 4.Each transitional probability matrix was used in con-junction with the history model, the results of thisexperimentation can be seen in Table 3.Only single transitional probability matrices areused in conjunction with the history model.
Thephysical distance to an exhibit is only relevant to thecurrent prediction, the distance travelled in the pastfrom exhibit to exhibit is irrelevant, and so physicalconceptual combinations are not necessary.
A modelsuch as this describes the evolution of a thought pro-cess, or is able to identify the common conceptualthread linking the exhibits in a visitor?s path.
Thisis only true if the visitor has a conceptual model inmind when touring the museum.
Without the aid ofa common information thread, conceptual predictivemethods based on exhibit information content willalways perform poorly.6 DiscussionThe visitor paths supplied by the MelbourneMuseum represent sequential lists of exhibits, andeach visitor is a black box travelling from exhibitto exhibit.
It is this token vs. type problem thatdoes not allow us to select an appropriate predictivemethod with which to make recommendations.Instead a broad coverage method is necessary.
Useof history models to analyse entire visitor paths areless successful than analysis of solely the currentlocation of the visitor.
This can be attributed to thefact that a majority of the visitors tracked may nothave had preconceived tasks in mind when theyentered the museum space, and just moved fromone visually impressive exhibit to the next.
Thevisitors do not consider their entire history as beingrelevant, and only take into account their current54Method Threshold Precision Recall F-scoreProximity 0.03 0.271 0.270 0.270Popularity 0.06 0.521 0.090 0.153Tf?Idf 0.06 0.133 0.122 0.128Lin 0.01 0.129 0.129 0.129Leacock-Chodorow 0.01 0.117 0.117 0.117Banerjee-Pedersen 0.01 0.182 0.180 0.181Popularity - Tf?Idf 0.001 0.176 0.154 0.164Popularity - Lin 0.0005 0.383 0.316 0.348Popularity - Leacock-Chodorow 0.0005 0.430 0.349 0.385Popularity - Banerjee-Pedersen 0.001 0.236 0.151 0.184Proximity - Tf?Idf 0.001 0.189 0.174 0.181Proximity - Lin 0.0005 0.239 0.237 0.238Proximity - Leacock-Chodorow 0.0005 0.252 0.250 0.251Proximity - Banerjee-Pedersen 0.0005 0.182 0.180 0.181Proximity - Popularity 0.001 0.262 0.144 0.186Table 2: Single exhibit history predictive methods using thresholdsMethod BOE AccuracyProximity 0.066 0.0Popularity 0.016 0.0Tf?Idf 0.033 0.0Lin 0.064 0.0Leacock-Chodorow 0.036 0.0Banerjee-Pedersen 0.036 0.0Table 3: Entire visitor history predictive methods.context.
This also explains the relative success ofthe predictive method built from analysis of thevisitor paths, presenting a marked improvementover the baseline of nearest exhibit.
In the best case(as seen in Table 2) the exhibit popularity predictivemethod was able to give relevant recommendations52% of the time.The interaction between predictive methods hereis highly simplified.
The assumption made is that allaspects of the visitor?s conceptual model are inde-pendent, or only interact on a superficial level (seethe lower halves of Tables 1?2).
More complexmethods of prediction need to be explored fullytake into account the interaction between predictivemethods.Representations based on physical proximity takeinto account little of how a visitor conceptualises amuseum space.
They do however describe the factthat closer exhibits are more visible to visitors, andare hence more likely to be visited.
Proximity canbe used as an augmentation to a conceptual modeldesigned to be used within a physical space.Any exhibit is best described by the information itcontains.
Visitors with a specific task in mind whenentering an exhibition already have a pre-initialisedconceptual model, relating to a theme.
The visitorsseek out content related to their conceptual model,and separate the bulk of the collection content fromthe information they require.
The representation ofthe content within each exhibit as a vocabulary ofterms allows us to find similarity between exhibits.The data available at the time of this testing does notmake the distinction between user types, and so onlybroad coverage methods result in a improvements.With the introduction of user types to the data sup-plied by the museum, specific predictive methodscan be applied to each individual user.
This addi-tional information can be significantly beneficial asthe specialisation of predictive types to visitors isexpected to produce much more accurate predictionsand recommendations.
Currently the only methodavailable to discern the user type is to analyse thelength of time the visitor spends at each each exhibit.This data is yet to be adapted and annotated from theraw data supplied by the Melbourne Museum.7 ConclusionThe above methods are intended to represent base-line components of possible conceptual models thatrepresent how a visitor is able to selectively assessthe dynamic context of museum visits.
The modelthat a visitor generates for themselves is unique, andis difficult to represent in terms of physical attributesof exhibits.55Being able to predict future actions of a userwithin a given environment allows a recommendersystem to influence a user?s choices.
Key to the pre-diction of future actions, is the idea that a user hasa conceptual model of how they see content withinthe environment in relation to a task.
With respect toa museum environment, the majority of users haveno preconceived conceptual model upon entering anexhibition and must build one as they explore theenvironment.
Users with a preconceived task willmore often than not stick to exhibits surroundinga particular theme.
Use of a language-based con-ceptual model based on the information containedwithin an exhibit can be combined with conceptualmodels based on geospatial attributes of the exhibitto create a representation of how a user will reactto an exhibit.
The use of heterogeneous informationcontained within the exhibit space is only relevantwhen the visitor has an information-centric task inmind.7.1 Future WorkThe methods dealing with a language-based concep-tual model given here are very basic, and the overallaccuracy and precision of the recommender systemcomponents require improvement.
Additional anno-tation of the paths of visitors to the museum willenable proper evaluation of conceptual informationbased predictive methods.
On-site testing of predic-tive methods at the Melbourne Museum is the ulti-mate goal of this project, and testing the effects ofvisitor feedback on recommendations will also beanalysed.
In order to gain more insight into vis-itor behaviour, the current small-scale set of visi-tors needs to be expanded to include multiple visitortypes, as well as tasks.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by Australian Research CouncilDP grant no.
DP0770931.
The authors wish to thank the staffof the Melbourne Museum for their help in this study.
Specialthanks goes to Carolyn Meehan and Alexa Reynolds for theirgathering of data, and helpful suggestions throughout this study.Thanks also goes to Ingrid Zukerman and Liz Sonenberg fortheir input on this research.ReferencesChumki Basu, Haym Hirsh, and William Cohen.
1998.
Rec-ommendations as classification: Using social and content-based information in recommendation.
In Proceedings of theNational Conference of Artificial Intelligence, pages 714?720, Madison, United States.Giuliano Benelli, Alberto Bianchi, Patrizia Marti, David Sen-nati, and Elena Not.
1999.
HIPS: Hyper-Interaction withinPhysical Space.
In ICMCS ?99: Proceedings of the IEEEInternational Conference on Multimedia Computing andSystems, volume 2, page 1075.
IEEE Computer Society.Steve Benford, John Bowers, Paul Chandler, Luigina Ciolfi,Martin Flintham, Mike Fraser, Chris Greenhalgh, Tony Hall,Sten-Olof Hellstrom, Shahram Izadi, Tom Rodden, HolgerSchnadelbach, and Ian Taylor.
2001.
Unearthing virtualhistory: using diverse interfaces to reveal hidden worlds.
InProc Ubicomp, pages 1?6.
ACM.Steven Bird.
2005.
NLTK-Lite: Efficient scripting for naturallanguage processing.
In Proceedings of the 4th InternationalConference on Natural Language Processing (ICON), pages11?18, Kanpur, India.Matthew Chalmers, Kerry Rodden, and Dominique Brodbeck.1998.
The Order of Things: Activity-Centred InformationAccess.
Computer Networks and ISDN Systems, 30:1?7.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database.
MIT Press, Cambridge, USA.Silvia Filippini.
2003.
Personalisation through IT in museums:Does it really work?
Presentation at ICHIM 2003.Stephen J.
Green, Maria Milosavljevic, Robert Dale, and CecileParis.
1999.
When virtual documents meet the real world.In Proc.
of WWW8 Workshop: Virtual Documents, HypertextFunctionality and the Web.Janet Hitzeman, Chris Mellish, and Jon Oberlander.
1997.Dynamic generation of museum web pages: The intelli-gent labelling explorer.
Archives and Museum Informatics,11(2):117?115.Claudia Leacock, Martin Chodorow, and George A Miller.1998.
Using corpus statistics and WordNet relations forsense identification.
Computational Linguistics, 24(1):147?65.Dekang Lin.
1998.
Automatic retrieval and clustering of sim-ilar words.
In (CoLING)-(ACL), pages 768?774, Montreal,Canada.Siddharth Patwardhan and Ted Pedersen.
2003.
Extended glossoverlaps as a measure of semantic relatedness.
In Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 805?810, Acapulco, Mexico.John Peponis, Ruth Conroy Dalton, Jean Wineman, and NickDalton.
2004.
Measuring the effect of layout on visitors?spatial behaviors in open plan exhibition settings.
Environ-ment and Planning B: Planning and Design, 31:453?473.Bhavani Raskutti, Anthony Beitz, and Belinda Ward.
1997.
Afeature-based approach to recommending selections basedon past preferences.
User Modelling and User Adaption,7(3):179?218.Paul Resnick and Hal R Varian.
1997.
Recommender systems.Commun.
ACM, 40(3):56?58.Ingrid Zukerman and David W Albrecht.
2001.
Predictivestatistical models for user modeling.
User Modeling andUser-Adapted Interaction, 11(1?2):5?18.56
