Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Morphology and Phonology, pages 1?5,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputing and Historical PhonologyJohn NerbonneAlfa-InformaticaUniversity of Groningenj.nerbonne@rug.nlT.
Mark EllisonInformaticsUniversity of Western Australiamark@markellison.netGrzegorz KondrakComputing ScienceUniversity of Albertakondrak@cs.ualberta.caAbstractWe introduce the proceedings from theworkshop ?Computing and Historical Pho-nology: 9th Meeting of the ACL Special In-terest Group for Computational Morphologyand Phonology?.1 BackgroundHistorical phonology is the study of how the soundsand sound systems of a language evolve, and in-cludes research issues concerning the triggering ofsound changes; their temporal and geographic prop-agation (including lexical diffusion); the regular-ity/irregularity of sound change, and its interactionwith morphological change; the role of borrowingand analogy in sound change; the interaction ofsound change with the phonemic system (poten-tially promoting certain changes, but also neutral-izing phonemic distinctions); and the detection ofthese phenomena in historical documents.There is a substantial and growing body of workapplying computational techniques of various sortsto problems in historical phonology.
We mention afew here to give the flavor of the sort of work wehoped to attract for presentation in a coherent SIG-MORPHON workshop.
Kessler (2001) estimatesthe likelihood of chance phonemic correspondencesusing permutation statistics; Kondrak (2002) devel-ops algorithms to detect cognates and sound corre-spondences; McMahon and McMahon (2005) andalso Nakhleh, Ringe and Warnow (2005) apply phy-logenetic techniques to comparative reconstruction;and Ellison and Kirby (2006) suggest means of de-tecting relationships which do not depend on wordby word comparisons.
But we likewise wished todraw on the creativity of the computational linguis-tics (CL) community to see which other importantproblems in historical phonology might also be ad-dressed computationally (see below).There has recently been a good deal of computa-tional work in historical linguistics involving phylo-genetic inference, i.e., the inference to the genealog-ical tree which best explains the historical develop-ments (Gray and Atkinson, 2003; Dunn et al, 2005).While the application of phylogenetic analysis hasnot universally been welcomed with open philolog-ical arms (Holm, 2007), it has attracted a good dealof attention, some of which we hoped to engage.
Wetake no stand on these controversies here, but notethat computing may be employed in historical lin-guistics, and in particular in historical phonology ina more versatile way, its uses extending well beyondphylogenetic inference.2 IntroductionThe workshop thus brings together researchers inter-ested in applying computational techniques to prob-lems in historical phonology.
We deliberately de-fined the scope of the workshop broadly to includeproblems such as identifying spelling variants inolder manuscripts, searching for cognates, hypothe-sizing and confirming sound changes and/or soundcorrespondences, modeling likely sound changes,the relation of synchronic social and geographicvariation to historical change, the detection of pho-netic signals of relatedness among potentially re-lated languages, phylogenetic reconstruction basedon sound correspondences among languages, dating1historical changes, or others.We were emphatically open to proposals to ap-ply techniques from other areas to problems in his-torical phonology such as applying work on confus-able product names to the modeling of likely soundcorrespondences or the application of phylogeneticanalysis from evolutionary biology to the problemof phonological reconstruction.3 PapersWe provide a preview to some of the issues in thepapers in this bundle.Brett Kessler?s invited contribution sketches theopportunities for multiple string alignment, whichwould be extremely useful in historical phono-logy, but which is also technically so challengingthat Gusfield (1999, Ch.
14) refers to it as ?theholy grail?
(of algorithms on strings, trees, and se-quences).3.1 Identification of CognatesT.
Mark Ellison combines Bayes?s theorem with gra-dient descent in a method for finding cognates andcorrespondences.
A formal model of language is ex-tended to include the notion of parent languages, anda mechanism whereby parent languages project ontotheir descendents.
This model allows the quantifica-tion of the probability of word lists in two languagesgiven a common ancestor which was the source forsome of the words.
Bayes?s theorem reverses thisexpression into the evaluation of possible parent lan-guages.
Gradient descent finds the best, or at least agood one, of these.
The method is shown to findcognates in data from Russian and Polish.Grzegorz Kondrak, David Beck and Philip Diltsapply algorithms for the identification of cognatesand recurrent sound correspondences proposed byKondrak (2002) to the Totonac-Tepehua family ofindigenous languages in Mexico.
Their long-termobjective is providing tools for rapid constructionof comparative dictionaries for relatively unfamiliarlanguage families.
They show that by combining ex-pert linguistic knowledge with computational analy-sis, it is possible to quickly identify a large numberof cognate sets across related languages.
The ex-periments led to the creation of the initial version ofan etymological dictionary.
The authors hope thatthe dictionary will facilitate the reconstruction ofa more accurate Totonac-Tepehua family tree, andshed light on the problem of the family origins andmigratory patterns.Michael Cysouw and Hagen Jung use an itera-tive process of alignment between words in differ-ent languages in an attempt to identify cognates.
In-stead of using consistently coded phonemic (or pho-netic) transciption, they use practical orthographies,which has the advantage of being applicable withoutexpensive and error-prone manual processing.
Pro-ceeding from semantically equivalent words in theIntercontinental Dictionary Series (IDS) database,the program aligns letters using a variant of editdistance that includes correspondences of one let-ter with two or more, (?multi-n-gram?).
Once ini-tial alignments are obtained, segment replacementcosts are inferred.
This process of alignment andinferring segment replacement costs may then beiterated.
They succeed in distinguishing noise onthe one hand from borrowings and cognates on theother, and the authors speculate about being able todistinguish inherited cognates from borrowings.3.2 A View from DialectologySeveral papers examined language change from thepoint of view of dialectology.
While the latter stud-ies variation in space, the former studies variationover time.Hans Goebl, the author of hundreds of papers ap-plying quantitative analysis to the analysis of lin-guistic varieties in dialects, applies his dialectomet-ric techniques both to modern material (1900) fromthe Atlas Linguistique de France and to material dat-ing from approximate 1300 provided by Dutch Ro-manists.
Dialectometry aims primarily at establish-ing the aggregate distances (or conversely, similari-ties), and Goebl?s analysis shows that these have re-main relatively constant even while the French lan-guage has changed a good deal.
The suggestion isthat geography is extremely influential.Wilbert Heeringa and Brian Joseph first recon-struct a protolanguage based on Dutch dialect data,which they compare to the proto-Germanic found ina recent dictionary, demonstrating that their recon-struction is quite similar to the proto-Germanic, eventhough it is only based on a single branch of a largefamily.
They then apply a variant of edit distance to2the pronunciation of the protolanguage, comparingit to the pronunciation in modern Dutch dialects, al-lowing on the one hand a quantitative evaluation ofthe degree to which ?proto-Dutch?
correlates withproto-Germanic (r = 0.87), and a sketch of conser-vative vs. innovative dialect areas in the Netherlandson the other.Anil Singh and Harshit Surana ask whethercorpus-based measures can be used to compare lan-guages.
Most research has proceeded from the as-sumption that lists of word pairs be available, as in-deed they normally are in the case of dialect atlasdata or as they often may be obtained by construct-ing lexicalizations of the concepts in the so-called?Swadesh?
list.
But such data is not always avail-able, nor is it straightforward to construct.
Singh andSurana construct n-gram models of order five (5),and compare Indo-Iranian and Dravidian languagesbased on symmetric cross-entropy.Martijn Wieling, Therese Leinonen and John Ner-bonne apply PAIR HIDDEN MARKOV MODELS(PHMM), introduced to CL by Mackay and Kon-drak (2005), to a large collection of Dutch dialectpronunciations in an effort to learn the degree ofsegment differentiation.
Essentially the PHMM re-gards frequently aligned segments as more similar,and Wieling et al show that the induced similar-ity indeed corresponds to phonetic similarity in thecase of vowels, whose acoustic properties facilitatethe assessment of similarity.3.3 Views from other PerspectivesSeveral papers examined diachronic change fromwell-developed perspectives outside of historicallinguistics, including evolution and genetic algo-rithms, language learning, biological cladistics, andthe structure of vowel systems.Monojit Choudhury, Vaibhav Jalan, SudeshnaSarkar and Anupam Basu distinguish two compo-nents in language developments, on the one handfunctional forces or constraints including ease ofarticulation, perceptual contrast, and learnability,which are modeled by the fitness function of a ge-netic algorithm (GA).
On the other hand, these func-tional forces operate against the background of lin-guistic structure, which the authors dub ?genotype?phenotype mapping?, and which is realized by theset of forms in a given paradigm, and a small setof possible atomic changes which map from formset to form set.
They apply these ideas to morpho-logical changes in dialects of Bengali, an agglutina-tive Indic language, and they are able to show thatsome modern dialects are optimal solutions to thefunctional constraints in the sense that any furtherchanges would be worse with respect to at least oneof the constraints.Eric Smith applies the gradual learning algorithm(GLA) developed in Optimality Theory by PaulBoersma to the problem of reconstructing a deadlanguage.
In particular the GLA is deployed to de-duce the phonological representations of a dead lan-guage, Elamite, from the orthography, where theorthography is treated as the surface representationand the phonological representation as the underly-ing representation.
Elamite was spoken in south-western and central Iran, and survives in texts datingfrom 2400?
360 BCE, written in a cuneiform scriptborrowed from Sumerians and Akkadians.
Specialattention is paid to the difficult mapping between or-thography and phonology, and to OT?s Lexicon Op-timization module.Antonella Gaillard-Corvaglia, Jean-Le?o Le?onardand Pierre Darlu apply cladistic analysis to dialectnetworks and language phyla, using the detailed in-formation in phonetic changes to increase the re-solution beyond what is possible with simple wordlists.
They examine Gallo-Romance vowels, south-ern Italo-Romance dialects and Mayan languages,foregoing analyses of relatedness based on globalresemblance between languages, and aiming insteadto view recurrent phonological changes as first-classentities in the analysis of historical phonology withthe ambition of including the probability of specificlinguistic changes in analyses.Animesh Mukherjee, Monojit Choudhury, Anu-pam Basu and Niloy Ganguly examine the struc-ture of vowel systems by defining a weighted net-work where vowels are represented by the nodesand the likelihood of vowels?
co-occurring in thelanguages of the world by weighted edges be-tween nodes.
Using data from the 451 lan-guages in the UCLA Phonological Segment Inven-tory Database (UPSID), Mukherjee and colleaguesseek high-frequency symmetric triplets (with sim-ilar co-occurrence weights).
The vowel networkswhich emerged tend to organize themselves to max-3imize contrast between the vowels when inventoriesare small, but they tend to grow by systematicallyapplying the same contrasts (short vs long, oral vsnasal) across the board when they grow larger.3.4 MethodologyFinally, there were three papers focusing on moregeneral methodological issues, one on non-linearity,one on a direct manipulation interface to cross-tabulation, and one on visualizing distance mea-sures.Hermann Moisl has worked a great deal with theNewcastle Electronic Corpus of Tyneside English(NECTE).
NECTE is a corpus of dialect speechfrom Tyneside in North-East England which wascollected in an effort to represent not only geograph-ical, but also social variation in speech.
In the con-tribution to this volume, Moisl addresses the prob-lem of nonlinearity in data, using the distribution ofvariance in the frequency of phonemes in NECTEas an example.
He suggests techniques for spottingnonlinearity as well as techniques for analyzing datawhich contains it.Tyler Peterson and Gessiane Picanco experimentwith cross tabulation as an aid to phonemic re-construction.
In particular they use PIVOT TA-BLES, which are cross tabulations supported by newdatabase packages, and which allow direct manipu-lation, e.g., drag and drop methods of adding and re-moving new sets of data, including columns or rows.This makes it easier for the linguist to track e.g.phoneme correspondences and develop hypothesesabout them.
Tup??
stock is a South American lan-guage family with about 60 members, mostly inBrazil, but also in Bolivia and Paraguay.
Pivot tableswere employed to examine this data, which resultedin a reconstruction a great deal like the only pub-lished reconstruction, but which nevertheless sug-gested new possibilities.Thomas Pilz, Axel Philipsenburg and WolframLuther describe the development and use of an in-terface for visually evaluating distance measures.Using the problem of identifying intended modernspellings from manuscript spellings using varioustechniques, including edit distance, they note ex-amples where the same distance measure performswell on one set of manuscripts but poorly on another.This motivates the need for easy evaluation of suchmeasures.
The authors use multidimensional scal-ing plots, histograms and tables to expose differentlevels of overview and detail.3.5 OtherAlthough this meeting of SIGMORPHON focusedon contributions to historical phonology, there wasalso one paper on synchronic morphology.Christian Monson, Alon Lavie, Jaime Carbonelland Lori Levin describe ParaMor, a system aimedat minimally supervised morphological analysis thatuses inflectional paradigms as its key concept.ParaMor gathers sets of suffixes and stems that co-occur, collecting each set of suffixes into a potentialinflectional paradigm.
These candidate paradigmsthen need to be compared and filtered to obtain aminimal set of paradigms.
Since there are manyhundreds of languages for which paradigm discov-ery would be a very useful tool, ParaMor may beinteresting to researchers involved in language doc-umentation.
This paper sketches the authors?
ap-proach to the problem and presents evidence forgood performance in Spanish and German.4 ProspectsAs pleasing as it to hear of the progress reportedon in this volume, it is clear that there is a greatdeal of interesting work ahead for those interestedin computing and historical phonology.
This is im-mediately clear if one compares the list of potentialtopics noted in Sections 1-2 with the paper topicsactually covered, e.g.
by skimming Section 3 or thetable of contents.
For example we did not receivesubmissions on the treatment of older documents, onrecognizing spelling variants, or on dating historicalchanges.In addition interesting topics may just now be ris-ing above the implementation horizon, e.g.
com-putational techniques which strive to mimic inter-nal reconstruction (Hock and Joseph, 1996), or thosewhich aim at characterizing general sound changes,or perspectives which attempt to tease apart histori-cal, areal and typological effects (Nerbonne, 2007).In short, we are optimistic about interest in follow-up workshops!45 AcknowledgmentsWe are indebted to our program committee, to the in-cidental reviewers named in the organizational sec-tion of the book, and to some reviewers who re-main anonymous.
We also thank the SIGMOR-PHON chair Jason Eisner and secretary Richard Wi-centowski for facilitating our organization of thisworkshop under the aegis of SIGMORPHON, thespecial interest group in morphology and phonologyof the Association for Computational Linguistics.1We thank Peter Kleiweg for managing the produc-tion of the book.
We are indebted to the NetherlandsOrganization for Scientific Research (NWO), grant235-89-001, for cooperation between the Center forLanguage and Cognition, Groningen, and the De-partment of Linguistics The Ohio State University,for support of the work which is reported on here.ReferencesA.
Michael Dunn, A. Terrill, Geert Reesink, and StephenLevinson.
2005.
Structural phylogenetics and thereconstruction of ancient language history.
Science,309(5743):2072?2075.Mark Ellison and Simon Kirby.
2006.
Measuring lan-guage divergence by intra-lexical divergence.
In Proc.of ACL/COLING 2006, pages 273?280, Shroudsburg,PA.
ACL.Russell D. Gray and Quentin D. Atkinson.
2003.Language-tree divergence times support the Ana-tolian theory of Indo-European origin.
Nature,426(6965):435?439.Dan Gusfield.
1999.
Algorithms on Strings, Trees, andSequences: Computer Science and Computational Bi-ology.
Cambridge Univesity Press, Cambridge.Hans Henrich Hock and Brian D. Joseph.
1996.
Lan-guage History, Language Change, and Language Re-lationship : An Introduction to Historical and Com-parative Linguistics.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.Hans J. Holm.
2007.
The new arboretum of Indo-European ?trees?
: Can new algorithms reveal the phy-logeny and even prehistory of IE?
Journal of Quanti-tative Linguistics, 14(2).Brett Kessler.
2001.
The Significance of Word Lists.CSLI Press, Stanford.Grzegorz Kondrak.
2002.
Algorithms for Language Re-construction.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Toronto.1http://nlp.cs.swarthmore.edu/sigphon/Wesley Mackay and Grzegorz Kondrak.
2005.
Com-paring word similarity and identifying cognates withpair hidden markov models.
In Proceedings of the 9thConference on Natural Language Learning (CoNLL),pages 40?47, Shroudsburg, PA. ACL.April McMahon and Robert McMahon.
2005.
LanguageClassification by Numbers.
Oxford University Press,Oxford.Luay Nakleh, Don Ringe, and Tandy Warnow.
2005.Perfect phylogentic networks: A new metholodologyfor reconstructing the evolutionary history of naturallanguages.
Language, 81(2):382?420.John Nerbonne.
2007. Review of April McMahon &Robert McMahon Language Classification by Num-bers.
Oxford: OUP, 2005.
Linguistic Typology, 11.5
