Proceedings of the Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition, pages 33?40,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007 c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsI will shoot your shopping down and you can shoot all my tinsAutomatic Lexical Acquisition from the CHILDES DatabasePaula Buttery and Anna KorhonenRCEAL, University of Cambridge9 West Road, Cambridge, CB3 9DB, UKpjb48, alk23@cam.ac.ukAbstractEmpirical data regarding the syntactic com-plexity of children?s speech is important fortheories of language acquisition.
Currentlymuch of this data is absent in the annotatedversions of the CHILDES database.
In thisperliminary study, we show that a state-of-the-art subcategorization acquisition system ofPreiss et al (2007) can be used to extract large-scale subcategorization (frequency) informa-tion from the (i) child and (ii) child-directedspeech within the CHILDES database withoutany domain-specific tuning.
We demonstratethat the acquired information is sufficiently ac-curate to confirm and extend previously re-ported research findings.
We also report quali-tative results which can be used to further im-prove parsing and lexical acquisition technol-ogy for child language data in the future.1 IntroductionLarge empirical data containing children?s speech arethe key to developing and evaluating different theo-ries of child language acquisition (CLA).
Particularlyimportant are data related to syntactic complexity ofchild language since considerable evidence suggeststhat syntactic information plays a central role duringlanguage acquisition, e.g.
(Lenneberg, 1967; Naigles,1990; Fisher et al, 1994).The standard corpus in the study of CLA is theCHILDES database (MacWhinney, 2000)1 which pro-vides 300MB of transcript data of interactions be-1See http://childes.psy.cmu.edu for details.tween children and parents over 25 human languages.CHILDES is currently available in raw, part-of-speech-tagged and lemmatized formats.
However, adequateinvestigation of syntactic complexity requires deeperannotations related to e.g.
syntactic parses, subcatego-rization frames (SCFs), lexical classes and predicate-argument structures.Although manual syntactic annotation is possible,it is extremely costly.
The alternative is to use natu-ral language processing (NLP) techniques for annota-tion.
Automatic techniques are now viable, cost effec-tive and, although not completely error-free, are suffi-ciently accurate to yield annotations useful for linguis-tic purposes.
They also gather important qualitativeand quantitative information, which is difficult for hu-mans to obtain, as a side-effect of the acquisition pro-cess.For instance, state-of-the-art statistical parsers,e.g.
(Charniak, 2000; Briscoe et al, 2006), have widecoverage and yield grammatical representations capa-ble of supporting various applications (e.g.
summa-rization, information extraction).
In addition, lexi-cal information (e.g.
subcategorization, lexical classes)can now be acquired automatically from parseddata (McCarthy and Carroll, 2003; Schulte im Walde,2006; Preiss et al, 2007).
This information comple-ments the basic grammatical analysis and provides ac-cess to the underlying predicate-argument structure.Containing considerable ellipsis and error, spokenchild language can be challenging for current NLPtechniques which are typically optimized for writtenadult language.
Yet Sagae et al (2005) have recentlydemonstrated that existing statistical parsing tech-niques can be usefully modified to analyse CHILDES33with promising accuracy.
Although further improve-ments are still required for optimal accuracy, this re-search has opened up the exciting possibility of auto-matic grammatical annotation of the entire CHILDESdatabase in the future.However, no work has yet been conducted on au-tomatic acquisition of lexical information from childspeech.
The only automatic lexical acquisition studyinvolving CHILDES that we are aware of is that ofButtery and Korhonen (2005).
The study involvedextracting subcategorization information from (someof) the adult (child-directed) speech in the database,and showing that this information differs from that ex-tracted from the spoken part of the British NationalCorpus (BNC) (Burnard, 1995).In this paper, we investigate whether state-of-the-art subcategorization acquisition technology can beused?without any domain-specific tuning?to obtainlarge-scale verb subcategorization frequency informa-tion from CHILDES which is accurate enough to showdifferences and similarities between child and adultspeech, and thus be able to provide support for syn-tactic complexity studies in CLA.We use the new system of Preiss et al (2007) toextract SCF frequency data from the (i) child and(ii) child-directed speech within CHILDES.
We showthat the acquired information is sufficiently accu-rate to confirm and extend previously reported SCF(dis)similarities between the two types of data.
In par-ticular, we demonstrate that children and adults havedifferent preferences for certain types of verbs, andthat these preferences seem to influence the way chil-dren acquire subcategorization.
In addition, we reportqualitative results which can be used to further im-prove parsing and lexical acquisition technology forspoken child language data in the future.2 Subcategorization Acquisition SystemWe used for subcategorization acquisition the new sys-tem of Preiss, Briscoe and Korhonen (2007) whichis essentially a much improved and extended versionof Briscoe and Carroll?s (1997) system.
It incorpo-rates 168 SCF distinctions, a superset of those foundin the COMLEX Syntax (Grishman et al, 1994) andANLT (Boguraev et al, 1987) dictionaries.
Currently,SCFs abstract over specific lexically governed parti-cles and prepositions and specific predicate selectionalpreferences but include some derived semi-predictablebounded dependency constructions, such as particleand dative movement?this will be revised in futureversions of the SCF system.The system tokenizes, tags, lemmatizes and parsesinput sentences using the recent (second) release ofthe RASP (Robust Accurate Statistical Parsing) system(Briscoe et al, 2006) which parses arbitrary Englishtext with state-of-the-art levels of accuracy.
SCFs areextracted from the grammatical relations (GRs) outputof the parser using a rule-based classifier.
This clas-sifier operates by exploiting the close correspondencebetween the dependency relationships which the GRsembody and the head-complement structure whichsubcategorization acquisition attempts to recover.
Lex-ical entries of extracted SCFs are constructed for eachword in the corpus data.
Finally, the entries may beoptionally filtered to obtain a more accurate lexicon.This is done by setting empirically determined thresh-olds on the relative frequencies of SCFs.When evaluated on cross-domain corpora contain-ing mainly adult language, this system achieves 68.9F-measure2 in detecting SCF types?a result whichcompares favourably to those reported with other com-parable SCF acquisition systems.3 DataThe English (British and American) sections of theCHILDES database (MacWhinney, 2000) were used tocreate two corpora: 1) CHILD and 2) CDS.
Both cor-pora contained c. 1 million utterances which were se-lected from the data after some utterances contain-ing un-transcribable sections were removed.
Speak-ers were identified using speaker-id codes within theCHAT transcriptions of the data:3 CHILD containedthe utterances of speakers identified as target children;CDS contained input from speakers identified as par-ents/caretakers.
The mean utterance length (measuredin words) in CHILD and CDS were 3.48 and 4.61, re-spectively.
The mean age of the child speaker in CHILDis around 3 years 6 months.42See Section 4 for details of F-measure.3CHAT is the transcription and coding format used by all thetranscriptions within CHILDES.4The complete age range is from 1 year and 1 month up to 7years.343.1 Test Verbs and SCF LexiconsWe selected a set of 161 verbs for experimentation.The words were selected at random, subject to the con-straint that a sufficient number of SCFs would be ex-tracted (> 100) from both corpora to facilitate max-imally useful comparisons.
All sentences containingan occurrence of one of the test verbs were extractedfrom the two corpora and fed into the SCF acquisitionsystem described earlier in section 2.In some of our experiments the two lexicons werecompared against the VALEX lexicon (Korhonen et al,2006)?a large subcategorization lexicon for Englishwhich was acquired automatically from several cross-domain corpora (containing both written and spokenlanguage).
VALEX includes SCF and frequency infor-mation for 6,397 English verbs.
We employed themost accurate version of the lexicon here (87.3 F-measure)?this lexicon was obtained by selecting highfrequency SCFs and supplementing them with lowerfrequency SCFs from manually built lexicons.4 Analysis4.1 Methods for AnalysisThe similarity between verb and SCF distributions inthe lexicons was examined.
To maintain a robust anal-ysis in the presence of noise, multiple similarity mea-sures were used to compare the verb and SCF distri-butions (Korhonen and Krymolowski, 2002).
In thefollowing p = (pi) and q = (qi) where piand qiarethe probabilities associated with SCFiin distributions(lexicons) P and Q:?
Intersection (IS) - the intersection of non-zero probabilitySCFs in p and q;?
Spearman rank correlation (RC) - lies in the range [1; 1], withvalues near 0 denoting a low degree of association and val-ues near -1 and 1 denoting strong association;?
Kullback-Leibler (KL) distance - a measure of the additionalinformation needed to describe p using q, KL is always ?
0and = 0 only when p ?
q;The SCFs distributions acquired from the corpora forthe chosen words were evaluated against: (i) a goldstandard SCF lexicon created by merging the SCFs inthe COMLEX and ANLT syntax dictionaries?this en-abled us to determine the accuracy of the acquiredSCFs; (ii) another acquired SCF lexicon (as if it werea gold standard)?this enabled us to determine simi-larity of SCF types between two lexicons.
In each caseVerb CHILD CDSgo 1 1want 2 2get 3 3know 4 4put 5 6see 6 5come 7 10like 8 7make 9 11say 10 8take 11 13eat 12 14play 13 15need 14 16look 15 12fall 16 22sit 17 21think 18 9break 19 27give 20 17Table 1: Ranks of the 20 most frequent verbs in CHILDand in CDSwe recorded the number of true positives (TPs), correctSCFs, false positives (FPs), incorrect SCFs, and falsenegatives (FNs), correct SCFs not in the gold standard.Using these counts, we calculated type precision(the percentage of SCF types in the acquired lexiconwhich are correct), type recall (the percentage of SCFtypes in the gold standard that are in the lexicon) andF-measure:F =2 ?
precision ?
recallprecision + recall(1)4.2 Verb AnalysisBefore conducting the SCF comparisons we first com-pared (i) our 161 test verbs and (ii) all the 1212common verbs and their frequencies in CHILD andCDS using the Spearman rank correlation (RC) andthe Kullback-Leibler distance (KL).
The result wasa strong correlation between the 161 test verbs (RC =0.920 ?
0.0791, KL = 0.05) as well as between all the1212 verbs (RC = 0.851 ?
0.0287, KL = 0.07) in thetwo corpora.These figures suggest that the child-directed speech(which is less diverse in general than speech betweenadults, see e.g.
the experiments of Buttery and Ko-rhonen (2005)) contains a very similar distribution ofverbs to child speech.
This is to be expected since the35corpora essentially contain separate halves of the sameinteractions.However, our large-scale frequency data makes itpossible to investigate the cause for the apparentlysmall differences in the distributions.
We did this byexamining the strength of correlation throughout theranking.
We compared the ranks of the individualverbs and discovered that the most frequent verbs inthe two corpora have indeed very similar ranks.
Ta-ble 1 lists the 20 most frequent verbs in CHILD (startingfrom the highest ranked verb) and shows their ranksin CDS.
As illustrated in the table, the top 4 verbsare identical in the two corpora (go, want, get, know)while the top 15 are very similar (including many ac-tion verbs e.g.
put, look, sit, eat, and play).Yet some of the lower ranked verbs turned out tohave large rank differences between the two corpora.Two such relatively highly ranked verbs are includedin the table?think which has a notably higher rankin CDS than in CHILD, and break which has a higherrank in CHILD than in CDS.
Many other similar caseswere found in particular among the medium and lowfrequency verbs in the two corpora.To obtain a better picture of this, we calculated foreach verb its rank difference between CHILD vs. CDS.Table 2 lists 40 verbs with substantial rank differencesbetween the two corpora.
The first column showsverbs which have higher ranks in CHILD than in CDS,and the second column shows verbs with higher ranksin CDS than in CHILD.
We can see e.g.
that childrentend to prefer verbs such as shoot, die and kill whileadults prefer verbs such as remember, send and learn.To investigate whether these differences in pref-erences are random or motivated in some manner,we classified the verbs with the largest differencesin ranks (>10) into appropriate Levin-style lexical-semantic classes (Levin, 1993) according to their pre-dominant senses in the two corpora.5 We discoveredthat the most frequent classes among the verbs thatchildren prefer are HIT (e.g.
bump, hit, kick), BREAK(e.g.
crash, break, rip), HURT (e.g.
hurt, burn, bite)and MOTION (e.g.
fly, jump, run) verbs.
Overall, manyof the preferred verbs (regardless of the class) expressnegative actions or feelings (e.g.
shoot, die, scare,hate).5This classification was done manually to obtain a reliable re-sult.CHILD CDSshoot tie remember hopehate wish send supposedie cut learn betwrite crash wipe kissuse kick pay smellbump scare feed guesswin step ask changelock burn feel setfight stand listen standjump care wait wonderTable 2: 20 verbs ranked higher in (i) child speech and(ii) child-directed speech.In contrast, adults have a preference for verbs fromclasses expressing cognitive processes (e.g.
remember,suppose, think, wonder, guess, believe, hope, learn) orthose that can be related to the education of children,e.g.
the WIPE verbs wash, wipe and brush and the PER-FORMANCE verbs draw, dance and sing.
In contrast tochildren, adults prefer verbs which express positive ac-tions and feelings (e.g.
share, help, love, kiss).It is commonly reported that child CLA is moti-vated by a wish to communicate desires and emo-tions, e.g.
(Pinker, 1994), but a relative preferencein child speech over child-directed speech for certainverb types or verbs expressing negative actions andfeelings has not been explicitly shown on such a scalebefore.
While this issue requires further investigation,our findings already demonstrate the value of usinglarge scale corpora in producing novel data and hy-potheses for research in CLA.4.3 SCF Analysis4.3.1 Quantitative SCF ComparisonThe average number of SCFs taken by studied verbsin the two corpora proved quite similar.
In unfil-tered SCF distributions, verbs in CDS took on averagea larger number of SCFs (29) than those in CHILD (24),but in the lexicons filtered for accuracy the numberswere identical (8?10, depending on the filtering thresh-old applied).
The intersection between the CHILD /CDS SCFs and those in the VALEX lexicon was around0.5, indicating that the two lexicons included only50% of the SCFs in the lexicon extracted from general(cross-domain) adult language corpora.
Recall againstVALEXwas consequently low (between 48% and 68%depending on the filtering threshold) but precision wasaround 50-60% for both CHILDES and CDS lexicons36Measures Unfilt.
Filt.Precision (%) 82.9 88.7Recall (%) 69.3 44.5F-measure 75.5 59.2IS 0.73 0.62RC 0.69 0.72KL 0.33 0.46Table 3: Average results when SCF distributions inCHILD and CDS are compared against each other.
(also depending on the filtering threshold), which isa relatively good result for the challenging CHILDESdata.
However, it should be remembered that with thistype of data it would not be expected for the SCF sys-tem to achieve as high precision and recall as it wouldon, for instance, adult written text and that the missingSCFs and/or misclassified SCFs are likely to provide uswith the most interesting information.As expected, there were differences between theSCF distributions in the two lexicons.
Table 3 showsthe results when the CHILD and CDS lexicons are com-pared against each other (i.e.
using the CDS as a goldstandard).
The comparison was done using both theunfiltered and filtered (using relative frequency thresh-old of 0.004) versions of the lexicons.
The similarityin SCF types is 75.5 according to F-measure in the un-filtered lexicons and 59.2 in filtered ones.64.3.2 Qualitative SCF ComparisonOur qualitative analysis of SCFs in the two corporarevealed reasons for the differences.
Table 4 lists the10 most frequent SCFs in CHILD (starting from thehighest ranked SCF), along with their ranks in CDSand VALEX.
The top 3 SCFs (NP, INTRANSITIVE andPP frames) are ranked quite similarly in all the cor-pora.
Looking at the top 10 SCFs, CHILD appears,as expected, more similar to CDS than with VALEX,but large differences can be detected in lower rankedframes.To identify those frames, we calculated for each SCFits difference in rank between CHILD vs. CDS.
Table 5exemplifies some of the SCFs with the largest rankdifferences.
Many of these concern frames involvingsentential complementation.
Children use more fre-6The fact that the unfiltered lexicons appear so much more sim-ilar suggests that some of the similarity is due to similarity in in-correct SCFs (many of which are low in frequency, i.e.
fall underthe threshold).quently than adults SCFs involving THAT and HOWcomplementation, while adults have a preference forSCFs involving WHETHER, ING and IF complementa-tion.Although we have not yet looked at SCF differencesacross ages, these discoveries are in line with previousfindings, e.g.
(Brown, 1973), which indicate that chil-dren master the sentential complementation SCFs pre-ferred by adults (in our experiment) fairly late in theacquisition process.
With a mean utterance length forCHILD at 3.48, we would expect to see relatively few ofthese frames in the CHILD corpus?and consequentlya preference for the simpler THAT constructions.4.4 The Impact of Verb Type Preferences on SCFDifferencesGiven the new research findings reported in Sec-tion 4.2 (i.e.
the discovery that children and adults havedifferent preferences for many medium-low frequencyverbs) we investigated whether verb type preferencesplay a role in SCF differences between the two corpora.We chose for experimentation 10 verbs from 3 groups:1.
Group 1 ?
verbs with similar ranks in CHILD and CDS: bring,find, give, know, need, put, see, show, tell, want2.
Group 2 ?
verbs with higher ranks in CDS: ask, feel, guess,help, learn, like, pull, remember, start, think3.
Group 3 ?
verbs with higher ranks in CHILD: break, die,forget, hate, hit, jump, scare, shoot, burn, wishThe test verbs were selected randomly, subject tothe constraint that their absolute frequencies in the twocorpora were similar.7 We first correlated the unfil-tered SCF distributions of each test verb in the two cor-pora against each other and calculated the similarity inthe SCF types using the F-measure.
We then evaluatedfor each group, the accuracy of SCFs in unfiltered dis-tributions against our gold standard (see Section 4.1).Because the gold standard was too ambitious in termsof recall, we only calculated the precision figures: theaverage number of TP and FP SCFs taken by test verbs.The results are included in Table 6.
Verbs in Group1 show the best SCF type correlation (84.7 F-measure)between the two corpora although they are the rich-est in terms of subcategorization (they take the highestnumber of SCFs out of the three groups).
The SCF cor-relation is clearly lower in Groups 2 and 3, although7This requirement was necessary because frequency may influ-ence subcategorization acquisition performance.37SCF Example sentence CHILD CDS VALEXNP I love rabbits 1 1 1INTRANS I sleep with a pillow and blanket 2 2 2PP He can jump over the fence 3 4 3PART I can?t give up 4 7 9TO-INF-SC I want to play with something else 5 3 6PART-NP/NP-PART He looked it up 6 6 7NP-NP Ask her all these questions 7 5 18NP-INF-OC Why don?t you help her put the blocks in the can ?
8 9 60INTR-RECIP So the kitten and the dog won?t fight 9 8 48NP-PP He put his breakfast in the bin 10 10 4Table 4: 10 most frequent SCFs in CHILD, along with their ranks in CDS and VALEX.SCF Example sentenceCHILD MP I win twelve hundred dollarsINF-AC You can help me wash the dishesPP-HOW-S He explained to her how she did itHOW-TO-INF Daddy can you tell me how to spell Christmas carols?NP-S He did not tell me that it was gonna cost me five dollarsCDS ING-PP Stop throwing a tantrumNP-AS-NP I sent him as a messengerNP-WH-S I?ll tell you whether you can take it offIT WHS, SUBTYPE IF How would you like it if she pulled your hair?NP-PP-PP He turned it from a disaster into a victoryTable 5: Typical SCFs with higher ranks in (i) CHILD and (ii) CDS.Measures Group1 Group2 Group3SCF similarity F-measure 84.7 72.17 75.60SCF accuracy TPs CDS 12 11 7TPs CHILD 10 9 8FPs CDS 36 29 13FPs CHILD 32 18 15Table 6: Average results for 3 groups when (i) unfil-tered SCF distributions in CHILD and CDS are com-pared against each other (SCF similarity) and when (ii)the SCFs in the distributions are evaluated against agold standard (SCF accuracy).the verbs in these groups take fewer SCFs.
Interest-ingly, Group 3 is the only group where children pro-duce more TPs and FPs on average than adults do, i.e.both correct and incorrect SCFs which are not exem-plified in the adult speech.
The frequency effects con-trolled, the reason for these differences is likely to liein the differing relative preferences children and adultshave for verbs in groups 2 and 3, which we think mayimpact the richness of their language.4.5 Further Analysis of TP and FP DifferencesWe looked further at the interesting TP and FP differ-ences in Group 3 to investigate whether they tell ussomething about (i) how children learn SCFs (via bothTPs and FPs), and (ii) how the parsing / SCF extractionsystem could be improved for CHILDES data in the fu-ture (via the FPs).We first made a quantitative analysis of the rela-tive difference in TPs and FPs for all the SCFs in bothcorpora.
The major finding of this high level anal-ysis was a significantly high FP rate for some INGframes (e.g.
PART-ING-SC, ING-NP-OMIT, NP-ING-OC) within CHILD (e.g.
?car going hit?, ?I hurt handmoving?).
This agrees with many previous studies,e.g.
(Brown, 1973), which have shown that childrenoverextend and incorrectly use the ?ing?
morphemeduring early acquisition.A qualitative analysis of the verbs from Group 3 wasthen carried out, looking for the following scenarios:?
SCF is a FP in both CHILD and CDS - either i) thegold standard is incomplete, or ii) there is error inthe parser/subcategorization system with respect to theCHILDES domain.?
SCF is a TP in CDS and not present in CHILD - children havenot acquired the frame despite exposure to it (perhaps it iscomplicated to acquire).?
SCF is a TP in CHILD but not present in CDS - adults arenot using the frame but the children have acquired it.
Thisindicates that either i) children are acquiring the frame fromelsewhere in their environment (perhaps from a television),38NP-INF NP-NPINTRANSADJPPARTNPPPPART-NPPART-NP-PP PART-PPPP-PP PP-BASENP-S NP-PP NP-ADJPNP-NP-upFigure 1: SCFs obtained for the verb shootor ii) there is a misuse of the verb?s semantic class in childspeech.?
SCF is a FP in CHILD but not present in CDS - children shouldnot have been exposed to this frame but they have acquiredit.
This indicates either i) a misuse of the verb?s semanticclass, or ii) error in the parsing/subcategorization technologywith respect to the child-speech domain.These scenarios are illustrated in Figure 1 whichgraphically depicts the differences in TPs and FPs forthe verb shoot.
The SCFs have been arranged in acomplexity hierarchy where complexity is defined interms of increasing argument structure.8 SCFs foundwithin our ANLT-COMLEX gold standard lexicon forshoot are indicated in bold-face.
A right-angled rect-angle drawn around a SCF indicates that the frameis present in CHILD?a solid line indicating a strongpresence (relative frequency > 0.010) and a dottedline indicating a weak presence (relative frequency >0.005).
Rounded-edge rectangles represent the pres-ence of SCFs within CDS similarly.
For example, theframe NP represents a TP in both CHILD and CDS andthe frame NP-NP represents a FP within CHILD.With reference to Figure 1, we notice that all ofthe SCFs present in CHILD are directly connectedwithin the hierarchy and there is a tendency for weaklypresent SCFs to inherit from those strongly present.
Apossible explanation for this is that children are ex-ploring SCFs?trying out frames that are slightly morecomplex than those already acquired (for a learning8For instance, the intransitive frame INTRANS is less complexthan the transitive frame NP, which in turn is less complex than thedi-transitive frame NP-NP.
For a detailed description of all SCFssee (Korhonen, 2002).algorithm that exploits such a hypothesis in generalsee (Buttery, 2006)).The SCF NP-NP is strongly present in CHILD de-spite being a FP.
Inspection of the associated utter-ances reveals that some instances NP-NP are legitimatebut so uncommon in adult language that they are omit-ted from the gold-standard (e.g.
?can i shoot us all topieces?.
However, other instances demonstrate a mis-understanding of the semantic class of the verb; thereis possible confusion with the semantic class of sendor throw (e.g.
?i shoot him home?
).The frame NP-INF is a FP in both corpora and a fre-quent FP in CHILD.
Inspection of the associated utter-ances flags up a parsing problem.
Frame NP-INF canbe illustrated by the sentences ?he helped her bake thecake?
or ?he made her sing?, however, within CHILDthe NP-INF has been acquired from utterances suchas ?i want ta shoot him?.
The RASP parser has mis-tagged the word ?ta?
leading to a misclassificationby the SCF extraction system.
This problem could besolved by augmenting RASP?s current grammar with alexical entry specifying ?ta?
as an alternative to infini-tival ?to?.In summary, our analysis of TP and FP differ-ences has confirmed previous studies regarding thenature of child speech (the over-extension of the?ing?
morpheme).
It has also demonstrated thatTP/FP analysis can be a useful diagnostic for pars-ing/subcategorization extraction problems within anew data domain.
Further, we suggest that analysisof FPs can provide empirical data regarding the man-ner in which children learn the semantic classes of39verbs (a matter that has been much debated e.g.
(Levin,1993), (Brooks and Tomasello, 1999)).5 ConclusionWe have reported the first experiment for automaticallyacquiring verbal subcategorization from both child andchild-directed parts of the CHILDES database.
Our re-sults show that a state-of-the-art subcategorization ac-quisition system yields useful results on challengingchild language data even without any domain-specifictuning.
It produces data which is accurate enoughto confirm and extend several previous research find-ings in CLA.
We explore the discovery that childrenand adults have different relative preferences for cer-tain verb types, and that these preferences influencethe way children acquire subcategorization.
Our workdemonstrates the value of using NLP technology to an-notate child language data, particularly where manualannotations are not readily available for research use.Our pilot study yielded useful information which willhelp us further improve both parsing and lexical ac-quisition performance on spoken/child language data.In the future, we plan to optimize the technology sothat it can produce higher quality data for investiga-tion of syntactic complexity in this domain.
Using theimproved technology we plan to then conduct a morethorough investigation of the interesting CLA topicsdiscovered in this study?first concentrating on SCFdifferences in child speech across age ranges.ReferencesB.
Boguraev, J. Carroll, E. J. Briscoe, D. Carter, and C. Grover.1987.
The derivation of a grammatically-indexed lexicon fromthe Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English.
In Proc.
ofthe 25th Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 193?200, Stanford, CA.E Briscoe and J Carroll.
1997.
Automatic extraction of subcatego-rization from corpora.
In 5th ACL Conference on Applied Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 356?363, Washington, DC.ACL.E.
J. Briscoe, J. Carroll, and R. Watson.
2006.
The second re-lease of the rasp system.
In Proc.
of the COLING/ACL 2006Interactive Presentation Sessions, Sydney, Australia.P Brooks and M Tomasello.
1999.
Young children learn to pro-duce passives with nonce verbs.
Developmental Psychology,35:29?44.R Brown.
1973.
A first Language: the early stages.
HarvardUniversity Press, Cambridge, MA.L.
Burnard, 1995.
The BNC Users Reference Guide.
British Na-tional Corpus Consortium, Oxford, May.P.
Buttery and A. Korhonen.
2005.
Large-scale analysis of verbsubcategorization differences between child directed speechand adult speech.
In Proceedings of the Interdisciplinary Work-shop on the Identification and Representation of Verb Featuresand Verb Classes, Saarbrucken, Germany.P Buttery.
2006.
Computational Models for First Language Ac-quisition.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Cambridge.E.
Charniak.
2000.
A maximum-entropy-inspired parser.
In Pro-ceedings of the 1st Meeting of the North American Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, Seattle, WA.C.
Fisher, G. Hall, S. Rakowitz, and L. Gleitman.
1994.
Whenit is better to receive than to give: syntactic and conceptualconstraints on vocabulary growth.
Lingua, 92(1?4):333?375,April.R.
Grishman, C. Macleod, and A. Meyers.
1994.
COMLEX Syn-tax: Building a Computational Lexicon.
In Proc.
of COLING,Kyoto.A.
Korhonen and Y. Krymolowski.
2002.
On the Robustness ofEntropy-Based Similarity Measures in Evaluation of Subcate-gorization Acquisition Systems.
In Proc.
of the 6th CoNLL,pages 91?97, Taipei, Taiwan.A.
Korhonen, Y. Krymolowski, and E. J. Briscoe.
2006.
A largesubcategorization lexicon for natural language processing ap-plications.
In Proc.
of the 5th LREC, Genova, Italy.A Korhonen.
2002.
Subcategorization Acquisition.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Cambridge.
Thesis published as Technical ReportUCAM-CL-TR-530.E Lenneberg.
1967.
Biological Foundations of Language.
WileyPress, New York, NY.B Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alternations.
ChicagoUniversity Press, Chicago, IL.B.
MacWhinney.
2000.
The CHILDES Project: Tools for Analyz-ing Talk.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Mahwah, NJ, 3rd edition.D.
McCarthy and J. Carroll.
2003.
Disambiguating nouns, verbs,and adjectives using automatically acquired selectional prefer-ences.
Computational Linguistics, 29(4).L Naigles.
1990.
Children use syntax to learn verb meanings.Journal of Child Language, 17:357?374.S Pinker.
1994.
The Language Instinct: How the Mind CreatesLanguage.
Harper Collins, New York, NY.J.
Preiss, E. J. Briscoe, and A. Korhonen.
2007.
A system forlarge-scale acquisition of verbal, nominal and adjectival sub-categorization frames from corpora.
In Proceedings of the 45thAnnual Meeting of ACL, Prague, Czech Republic.
To appear.K.
Sagae, A. Lavie, and B. MacWhinney.
2005.
Automatic mea-surement of syntactic development in child langugage.
In Pro-ceedings of the 42nd Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, Ann Arbor, Michigan.S.
Schulte im Walde.
2006.
Experiments on the automatic induc-tion of german semantic verb classes.
Computational Linguis-tics, 32(2):159?194.40
