Proceedings of SSST, NAACL-HLT 2007 / AMTA Workshop on Syntax and Structure in Statistical Translation, pages 88?95,Rochester, New York, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsProbabilistic Synchronous Tree-Adjoining Grammars for MachineTranslation: The Argument from Bilingual DictionariesStuart M. ShieberSchool of Engineering and Applied SciencesHarvard UniversityCambridge, MA 02138shieber@seas.harvard.eduAbstractWe provide a conceptual basis for think-ing of machine translation in terms of syn-chronous grammars in general, and proba-bilistic synchronous tree-adjoining gram-mars in particular.
Evidence for the viewis found in the structure of bilingual dic-tionaries of the last several millennia.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we provide a conceptual basis forthinking of machine translation in terms of syn-chronous grammars in general, and probabilisticsynchronous tree-adjoining grammars in particular.The basis is conceptual in that the arguments arebased on generalizations about the translation re-lation at a conceptual level, and not on empiricalresults at an engineering level.
Nonetheless, theconceptual idea is consistent with current efforts inMT, and in fact may be seen as underlying so-calledsyntax-aware MT.We will argue that the nature of the translation re-lation is such that an appropriate formalism for re-alizing it should have a set of properties ?
expres-sivity, trainability, efficiency ?
that we will charac-terize more precisely below.
There may be multi-ple formalisms that can achieve these ends, but one,at least, is probabilistic synchronous tree-adjoininggrammar, and to our knowledge, no other qualita-tively distinct formalism has been argued to displayall of the requisite properties.Below, we will discuss the various properties,with particular attention to an examination of a par-ticular source of data about the translation relation,namely bilingual dictionaries.
Multilingual lexicog-raphy has a history of some four millennia or more.In that time, a great deal of knowledge about par-ticular translation relations has been explicitly codi-fied in multilingual dictionaries.
More interestinglyfor our present purposes, multilingual dictionariesthrough their own structuring implicitly express in-formation about translation relations in general.In Section 2, we introduce the Construction Prin-ciple, a property of the translation relation implicitin the structure of bilingual dictionaries throughouttheir four millennium history.
Section 3 providesa review of synchronous tree-adjoining grammarsshowing that this formalism directly incorporates theConstruction Principle and allows the formal im-plementation of bilingual dictionary relations.
InSection 4, we argue that the probabilistic variantof STAG (PSTAG) inherits the expressivity advan-tages of STAG while adding the trainability of sta-tistical MT.
Section 5 concerns the practical efficacyof STAG.
We conclude (Section 6) with an overallproposal for the use of PSTAG in a statistical MTsystem.
By virtue of its fundamentality to the mod-eling of the translation relation, PSTAG or its formalrelatives merits empirical examination as a basis forstatistical MT.2 ExpressivityOf course, a formalism for describing the transla-tion relation must be able to capture the relationsbetween words in the two languages: acqua meanswater, dormire means sleep, and so forth.
Indeed,the stereotype of a bilingual dictionary is just sucha relation; the HarperCollins Italian College Dictio-nary (HCICD) (Clari and Love, 1995) contains en-88tries ?acqua / water?10 and ?dormire / sleep?191.1This property doesn?t distinguish among any of theformal means for capturing these direct lexical re-lationships.
Finite-state string transducers naturallycapture these simple relationships, but so do more(and less) expressive formalisms.Simple word-by-word replacement is not a viabletranslation method; this was noted even as earlyas Weaver?s famous memorandum (Weaver, 1955).Systems based on word-to-word lexicons, such asthe IBM systems (Brown et al, 1990; Brown etal., 1993), incorporate further devices that allow re-ordering of words (a ?distortion model?)
and rank-ing of alternatives (a monolingual language model).Together, these allow for the possibility thatThe Word Principle:Words translate differently when adjacent toother words.This property of the translation relation is patentlytrue.Even a word-to-word system with the ability toreorder words and rank alternatives has obvious lim-itations, which have motivated the machine transla-tion research community toward progressively moreexpressive formalisms.
Again, we see precedent forthe move in bilingual dictionaries, which providephrasal translations in addition to simple word trans-lations: ?by and large / nel complesso?86, ?full moon/ luna piena?406.
The insight at work here isThe Phrase Principle:Phrases (not words) translate differently whenadjacent to other phrases.And again, we see this insight informing statisti-cal machine translation systems, for instance, in thephrase-based approaches of Och (2003) and Koehnet al (2003).
These two principles, while true, donot exhaust the insights implicit in the structure ofbilingual dictionaries.
A fuller view is accomplishedby moving from words and phrases to constructions.2.1 The construction principleThe phenomenon that underlies the use of syn-chronous grammars for MT is simply this:1Throughout, we notate entries in HCICD with the notation?entry form / translation form?page, providing the Italian andEnglish forms, along with the page number of the cited entry.The Construction Principle:Words and phrases translate differently in con-struction with other words.The notion of in construction with is a structural no-tion.
A word is in construction with another if theyare related by a structural relation of some sort de-pendent on the identity or role of the word.For example, the English word take is prototypi-cally translated with a form of the Italian prendere?take / prendere?661.
But when its object is a bath,as in the sentence ?I like to take several long bubblebaths every day?, the word is translated with a formof fare.
More accurately, the construction typifiedby the phrase take a bath is translated by the corre-sponding construction typified by the phrase fare unbagno (?take a bath / fare un bagno?662).One may think that we are still in the realm of thePhrase Principle; the phrase take a bath translates asthe phrase fare un bagno.
But the generalization isclearly much more general than that in several ways.First, the notion of in construction with does notnecessarily lead to contiguous phrases because ofvariability within the constructions.
Bilingual dic-tionaries have developed notational conventions forsuch cases.
When freely variable objects can inter-vene between the words in construction, a kind ofvariable word is used in dictionary entries, such asSB (somebody), STH (something), QN (qualcuno),QC (qualcosa).
The word take participates in an-other construction ?take SB by surprise / cogliere[literally ?catch?]
QN di sorpresa?.
The phe-nomenon is widespread.
We find entries for lightverb phrases such as take SB by surprise, idiomaticconstructions such as ?pull SB?s leg / prendere ingiro QN?507, and particle constructions such as ?callSB up / chiamare QN?86.
These variable notationsnot only stand in for variable textual material andcategorize that material (as specifying an entity (QC)or human (QN)) but also provide links between theportions of the two constructions.
Whatever lexi-cal material instantiates a SB variable on the Englishside, its translation instantiates the QN in the Ital-ian.
Thus translations require not only structure inthe monolingual representations, but structure bilin-gually across them.22The linking of the subject roles in these constructions istypically left implicit in these entries, following from an as-89Second, even constructions that are in and ofthemselves contiguous may become discontiguousby intervention of other lexical material: modifiers,appositives, and the like.
An example has alreadybeen seen in the example ?I like to take several longbubble baths every day?.
There is no contiguity be-tween take and bath here.
A formalism based purelyon concatenation of contiguous phrases will be un-able to model such constructions.These two aspects of variability and interven-tion within and between constructions preclude sim-ple concatenative formalisms such as finite-state orcontext-free formalisms.2.2 Prevalence of bilingual constructionsA natural question arises as to the prevalence of suchnontrivial bilingual constructions.
Presumably, ifthey are sufficiently rare and exotic, it may be ac-ceptable, and in fact optimal, from an engineeringpoint of view to ignore them and stay with simplerformalisms.We can ask the prevalence question at the level oftypes or tokens.
At the type level, a simple examina-tion of a comprehensive modern bilingual dictionaryreveals a quite high frequency of non-word-for-wordtranslations.
Analysis of a small random subsam-ple of HCICD yielded only 34% of entries of the?acqua / water?10 sort.
In contrast, 52% were con-tiguous multi-word translations, e.g., ?guarda caso /strangely enough?100.
An additional 11% of entrieshad variable content, split about equally between en-tries with overt marking of variability (?prendere QNin castagna / to catch SB in the act?100) and im-plicit variability (?hai fatto caso al suo cappello?
/did you notice his hat?
?100, in which the ?suo cap-pello / his hat?
pair serves as a placeholder for othertranslates.
(The remaining 3% is accounted for byentries providing monolingual equivalences and un-translated proper names.)
The line between implicitvariability and multi-word translations is quite per-meable, so that many of the 54% of entries classifiedas the latter might in fact be better thought of as theformer, and in any case many of the multi-word en-sumption that subjects are typically linked across these lan-guages.
Where this assumption fails, however, explicit markingis found in the dictionary, either by using a passive alternation?piacere a QN / to be liked by SB?424, or implicit linking ?mipiace / I like it?424.tries would be subject to noncontiguity through in-sertion of other lexical material.
At the type level,then, there is plenty of evidence for the Phrase Prin-ciple and the Construction Principle.At the token level, the general interest in so-called syntax-aware statistical MT approaches is it-self evidence that researchers believe that the to-kens accounting for the performance gap in currentsystems based on the Word and Phrase Principlestranscend those principles in some way, presum-ably because they manifest the Construction Prin-ciple.3 Only time will tell if such syntax-awaresystems are able to display performance improve-ments over their nonstructural alternatives.
Success-ful experiments such as those of Chiang (2005) us-ing synchronous context-free grammar are a goodfirst start.42.3 Heritage of the construction principleWe have argued that a formalism expressive enoughto model the translation relation implicit in bilin-gual dictionaries must be based on relations overconstructions, the primitive relations found in suchbilingual dictionaries and founded by the Construc-tion Principle.
The fundamentality of this princi-ple is evidenced by the fact that it has informedbilingual dictionaries literally since their inception.The earliest known bilingual dictionaries are thoseincorporated in the so-called lexical texts of an-cient Mesopotamia from four millennia ago.
Eventhere, we find evidence of the Construction Princi-ple in entries that describe translation of words de-pendent upon words they are in construction with.Civil (1995) cites an example of the Akkadian wordnaka?pu (to gore, to knock down) whose translationinto Sumerian is given differentially dependent onthe nature of ?grammatical constructions with par-ticular subjects or objects?
:3A reviewer objects that this point is vacuous: ?Is the factthat researchers aren?t building large-scale statistical semantictransfer models evidence for the fact that they don?t believe insemantics??
This is an instance of the logical fallacy of denyingthe antecedent.
If researchers act on a premise, they believe thepremise.
From this it does not follow that if they fail to act on apremise, they deny the premise.4It would be more convincing to have empirical token-levelstatistics on the prevalence of constructions found in bilingualdictionaries.
Unfortunately, this would require much of the ef-fort of building an MT system on a construction basis itself.90Translation When said ofsag-ta-dug4-ga the headdu7 oxenru5 ramssi-tu10 oxen/bullskur-ku a floodru-gu?
a fingersi-ga a garment3 Synchronous Grammars ReviewedTo summarize, the translation relation in evidenceimplicitly in bilingual dictionaries requires a for-malism expressive enough to directly represent re-lations between constructions, appropriately linked,and to do so in a way that allows these constructionsto be realized noncontiguously by virtue of vari-ability and intervention.
As we will show, the for-mer requirement is exactly the idea underlying syn-chronous grammars.
The latter requirement of non-contiguity in its two aspects further implicates oper-ations of substitution and adjunction (respectively)to combine constructions.
The requirements leadnaturally to a consideration of synchronous tree-adjoining grammar as the direct embodiment of thebilingual dictionaries of the last four millennia.A synchronous grammar formalism is built bysynchronizing grammars from some base formal-ism.
A grammar in the base formalism consistsof a set of elementary tree structures along withone or more combining operations.
All of the fa-miliar monolingual formalisms?finite-state gram-mars, context-free grammars, tree-substitution and-adjoining grammars, categorial grammars, interalia?can be thought of in this way.
A synchronousgrammar consists of a set of pairs of elementarytrees from the base formalism together with a link-ing relation between nodes in the trees at whichcombining operations can perform.
Derivation pro-ceeds as in the base formalism, whatever that is, ex-cept that a pair of trees operate at a pair of linkednodes in an elementary tree pair.
An operation per-formed at one end of a link must be matched by acorresponding operation at the other end of the link.For example, the tree pair in Figure 1 might be ap-propriate for use in translating the sentence Eli tookhis father by surprise.
The links between the NPnodes play the same role as the linked variables SBand QN in the bilingual dictionary entry.
They allowfor substitution of tree pairs for Eli and its translationand his father and its.
The additional links allow forfurther modification, as in Eli recently took his fa-ther by surprise by preparing dinner, the modifiersrecently and by preparing dinner adjoining at the VPand S links, respectively.Expressing this relation in other frameworks in-volves either limiting its scope (for instance, to par-ticular objects and intervening material), expandingits scope (by separating the translations of the con-tiguous portions of the constructions), or mimickingthe structure of the STAG (as described at the end ofSection 5).The basic idea of using synchronous TAG for ma-chine translation dates from the original definition(Shieber and Schabes, 1990), and has been pur-sued by several researchers (Abeille et al, 1990;Dras, 1999; Prigent, 1994; Palmer et al, 1999), butonly recently in its probabilistic form (Nesson et al,2006).
The directness with which the formalism fol-lows from the structure of bilingual dictionaries hasnot to our knowledge been previously noted.
It leadsto the possibility of making direct use of bilingualdictionary material in a statistical machine transla-tion system.5 But even if the formalism is not usedin that way, there is import to the fact that its expres-sivity matches that thought by lexicographers of thelast several millennia to be needed for capturing thetranslation relation; this fact indicates at least thatSTAG?s use as a substrate for MT systems may be apromising research direction to pursue, should othernecessary properties be satisfiable as well.
We turnnext to two of these properties: trainability and effi-ciency.4 TrainabilityThe mere ability to formally represent the contentsof manually developed bilingual dictionaries is notsufficient for the building of robust machine trans-lation systems.
The last decade and a half of MTresearch has demonstrated the importance of train-ability of the models based on statistical evidencefound in corpora.
Without such training, manually5For construction-based MT, reconstruction of tree align-ments from data is much more difficult than for phrase-basedMT, and hence extracting them from a dictionary becomesmuch more appealing.91SNP VPV NPtookby surprisePPP NPSNP VPV NPa coltodi sorpresaPPP NPFigure 1: A synchronous tree pair.developed models are too brittle to be seriously con-sidered as a basis for machine translation.It may also be the case that with such training, themanually generated materials are redundant.
Cer-tainly, it has been difficult to show the utility of man-ually generated annotations in improving MT per-formance.
But this may be because the means bywhich the materials are represented is not yet appro-priate; it does not articulate well with the statisticalsubstrate used by the training methodology.A further property, then, for the formalism is thatit be trainable based on bilingual corpora.
Considertraining of the sort that underlies the IBM-style wordmodels and their phrase-based offshoots, or statisti-cal parsing based on probabilistic CFGs (Lari andYoung, 1990) or other generative formalisms.
Suchmethods use an underlying probabilistic formalism,typically structuring the parameters based on a uni-versal parametric normal form (as n-gram proba-bilities are for finite-state grammars and Chomsky-normal form is for PCFGs), and applying an efficienttraining algorithm to set values for the parameters.A full system based on STAG would use the for-malism to express both the detailed bilingual con-structional relationships as found in a bilingual dic-tionary and a backbone in the form of the uni-versal normal form.
Trained together, the normalform would serve to smooth the brittle construction-specific part, while the construction-specific partwould relieve the burden on the universal learnedportion to allocate parameters to rare constructions.How do synchronous tree-adjoining grammarsfare in this area?
Do they admit of the kind of uni-versal normal-form training that might serve as asmoothing method for the more highly articulatedbut brittle lexicographic relation?A probabilistic variant of synchronous TAG isstraightforward to specify, given that the formal-ism itself has a natural generative interpretation(Shieber, 1994).
A universal parametric normalform has been provided by Nesson et al (2006)(see Figure 2), who show that, at least on smalltraining sets, a synchronous TAG in this normalform performs at a level comparable to standardword- and phrase-based systems.
SynchronousTAGs thus seem to have the best of both worlds:They can directly express the types of ramified bilin-gual constructions as codified in bilingual dictionar-ies, and they can also express the types of universalassumption-free normal forms that underlie modernstatistical MT.
Importantly, they can do so at oneand the same time, as both types of information areexpressed in the same way, as sets of tree pairs.
Bothcan therefore be trained together based on bilingualcorpora.We emphasize that the advantage that we find forSTAGs in displaying well the necessary propertiesfor statistical machine translation systems implicit inbilingual dictionaries is not that they are able to codeefficiently all generalizations about the translationrelation.
Indeed, STAG is not able to do so (Shieber,1994), which has motivated more expressive exten-92XXXw Tw S!XXXXXXw Tw SXXXXXXw S w TXXXSX!SXX?
X?
X?X?
X?
X?
!SX!SX !SX!SXFigure 2: A normal form for synchronous tree-insertion grammar.
(Reproduced from Nesson et al (2006).
)sions of the formalism (Chiang et al, 2000).
Forexample, STAG might express the construction rela-tion ?attraversare QC di corsa / run across ST?
andsimilar relations between Italian verbs of directionwith modifiers of motion and English verbs of mo-tion with directional modifiers.
However, the gener-alization that directional verbs with motion-manneradverbials translate as motion-manner verbs with di-rectional adverbials is not expressed or expressibleby STAG.
Each instance of the generalization mustbe specified or learned separately.6 Nonetheless, weare content (in the spirit of statistical MT) to havelots of such particular cases missing a generaliza-tion, so long as the parts from which they are con-structed are pertinent, that is, so long as we do notneed to specify ?attraversare la strada di corsa / runacross the road?51 separately from all of the otherthings one might run across.5 EfficiencyA final set of considerations has to do with the effi-ciency of the formalism.
Is it practical to use STAGfor the purposes we have outlined?
It is importantnot to preclude a formalism merely based on im-practicality of its current use (given the constant in-creases in computer speed), but inherent intractabil-ity is another matter.76Palmer et al (1999) provide an approach to STAG that at-tempts to address this particular problem as does the extensionof Dras (1999).
It is unclear to what extent such extensions areamenable to trainable probabilistic variants.7Of course, too much might be made of this question ofcomputational complexity.
The algorithms used for decodingof statistical MT systems almost universally incorporate heuris-tics for efficiency reasons, even those that are polynomial.
Onereviewer notes that ?the admittedly perplexing reality is that ex-ponential decoders run much faster than polynomial ones, pre-Here, the STAG situation is equivocal.
Bilingualparsing of a corpus relative to an STAG is a nec-essary first step in parameter training.
The recog-nition problem for STAG, like that for synchronouscontext-free grammar (SCFG) is NP-hard (Satta andPeserico, 2005).
Under appropriate restrictions ofbinarizability, SCFG parsing can be done in O(n6)time, doubling the exponent of CFG parsing.
Simi-larly, STAG parsing under suitable limitations (Nes-son et al (2005)) can be done in O(n12) time dou-bling the exponent of monolingual TAG parsing.
Onthe positive side, recent work exploring the auto-matic binarization of synchronous grammars (Zhanget al, 2006) has indicated that non-binarizable con-structions seem to be relatively rare in practice.Nonetheless, such a high-degree polynomial makesthe complete algorithm impractical.Nesson et al (2006) use synchronous tree-insertion grammar (STIG) (Schabes and Waters,1995) rather than STAG for this very reason.STIG retains the ability to express a universal nor-mal form, while allowing O(n6) bilingual parsing.
(Again, limitations on the formalism are required toachieve this complexity.)
Even this complexity maybe too high.
Methods such as those of Chiang (2005)have been proposed for further reducing the com-plexity of SCFG parsing; they may be applicable toSTIG (and STAG) parsing as well.The STIG formalism can be shown to be expres-sively equivalent to synchronous tree-substitutiongrammar (STSG) and even SCFG.
Does this viti-ate the argument for STIG as a natural formalismfor MT?
No.
The reductions of STIG to these otherformalisms operate by introducing additional nodessumably because they prune more intelligently.
?93in the elementary trees that extend the size of thosetrees and hence the complexity of their parsing, un-less subtle tricks are used to take advantage of thespecial structure of these added nodes.
These tricksessentially amount to treating the formalism as anSTIG, not an SCFG.
That is, even if an SCFG wereto be used, its structure would best be built on theobservations found here.For example, the method of Cowan et al (2006)synchronizes elementary trees of a prescribed formto handle translation of clauses (verbs plus their ar-guments) essentially implementing a kind of STSG.However, because modifiers can make these treesdiscontiguous, they augment the model by allowingfor free insertion of modifiers in certain locations.One view of this is as an implementation of the prin-ciple that motivates adjoining, without using adjoin-ing itself.
Thus, systems that are designed to takeaccount of the principles adduced in this paper arelikely to be implementing aspects of STAG implic-itly, even if not explicitly.Similarly, recent research is beginning to unifysynchronous grammar formalisms and tree trans-ducers (Shieber, 2004; Shieber, 2006).
There maywell be equally direct transducer formalisms that el-egantly express construction-based translation rela-tions.
This would not be a denial of the present the-sis but a happy acknowledgment of it.6 ConclusionWe have argued that probabilistic synchronous TAGor some closely related formalism possesses a con-stellation of properties?expressivity, trainability,and efficiency?that make it a good candidate ata conceptual level for founding a machine transla-tion system.
What would such a system look like?It would start with a universal normal form sub-grammar serving as the robust ?backoff?
relation towhich additional more articulated bilingual materialcould be added in the form of additional tree pairs.These tree pairs might be manually generated, au-tomatically reconstructed from repurposed bilingualdictionaries, or automatically induced from alignedbilingual treebanks (Groves et al, 2004; Groves andWay, 2005) or even unannotated bilingual corpora(Chiang, 2005).
In fact, since all of these sourcesof data yield interacting tree pairs, more than one ofthese techniques might be used.
In any case, furthertraining would automatically determine the interac-tions of these information sources.The conclusions of this paper are admittedly pro-grammatic.
But plausible arguments for a programof research may be just the thing for clarifying a re-search direction and even promoting its pursual.
Inthat sense, this paper can be read as a kind of man-ifesto for the use of probabilistic synchronous TAGas a substrate for MT research.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Rani Nelken, Rebecca Nesson, andAlexander Rush for helpful discussion and theanonymous reviewers for their insightful comments.This work was supported in part by grant IIS-0329089 from the National Science Foundation.ReferencesAnne Abeille, Yves Schabes, and Aravind K. Joshi.1990.
Using lexicalized tags for machine translation.In Proceedings of the 13th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics.Peter F. Brown, John Cocke, Stephen Della Pietra, Vin-cent J. Della Pietra, Frederick Jelinek, John D. Laf-ferty, Robert L. Mercer, and Paul S. Roossin.
1990.
Astatistical approach to machine translation.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 16(2):79?85.Peter F. Brown, Stephen Della Pietra, Vincent J. DellaPietra, and Robert L. Mercer.
1993.
The mathematicsof statistical machine translation: Parameter estima-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 19(2):263?311.David Chiang, William Schuler, and Mark Dras.
2000.Some remarks on an extension of synchronous TAG.In Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop onTree Adjoining Grammars and Related Formalisms(TAG+5), Paris, France, 25?27 May.David Chiang.
2005.
A hierarchical phrase-based modelfor statistical machine translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL?05), pages 263?270, AnnArbor, Michigan, June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Miguel Civil.
1995.
Ancient Mesopotamian lexicogra-phy.
In Jack M. Sasson, editor, Civilizations of the An-cient Near East, volume 4, pages 2305?14.
Scribners,New York.94Michela Clari and Catherine E. Love, editors.
1995.HarperCollins Italian College Dictionary.
Harper-Collins Publishers, Inc., New York, NY.Brooke Cowan, Ivona Kucerov, and Michael Collins.2006.
A discriminative model for tree-to-tree trans-lation.
In Proceedings of EMNLP 2006.Mark Dras.
1999.
A meta-level grammar: Redefiningsynchronous TAG for translation and paraphrase.
InProceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 80?87,Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Declan Groves and Andy Way.
2005.
Hybrid example-based SMT: the best of both worlds?
In Workshop onBuilding and Using Parallel Texts: Data-Driven Ma-chine Translation and Beyond, Ann Arbor, MI, June.ACL ?05.Declan Groves, Mary Hearne, and Andy Way.
2004.
Ro-bust sub-sentential alignment of phrase-structure trees.In COLING ?04, Geneva Switzerland.Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu.2003.
Statistical phrase-based translation.
In Proceed-ings of HLT/NAACL.Karim Lari and Steve J.
Young.
1990.
The estimationof stochastic context-free grammars using the inside-outside algorithm.
Computer Speech and Language,4:35?56.Rebecca Nesson, Alexander Rush, and Stuart M. Shieber.2005.
Induction of probabilistic synchronous tree-insertion grammars.
Technical Report TR-20-05, Di-vision of Engineering and Applied Sciences, HarvardUniversity, Cambridge, MA.Rebecca Nesson, Stuart M. Shieber, and Alexander Rush.2006.
Induction of probabilistic synchronous tree-insertion grammars for machine translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 7th Conference of the Association forMachine Translation in the Americas (AMTA 2006),Boston, Massachusetts, 8-12 August.Franz Josef Och.
2003.
Statistical Machine Transla-tion: From Single-Word Models to Alignment Tem-plates.
Ph.D. thesis, Technical University of Aachen,Aachen, Germany.Martha Palmer, Joseph Rosenzweig, and WilliamSchuler.
1999.
Capturing motion verb generalizationsin synchronous tree-adjoining grammar.
In PatrickSaint-Dizier, editor, Predicative Forms in Natural Lan-guage and in Lexical Knowledge Bases.
Kluwer Press.Gilles Prigent.
1994.
Synchronous TAGs and machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the Third InternationalWorkshop on Tree Adjoining Grammar and RelatedFormalisms (TAG+3), Universite?
Paris 7.Giorgio Satta and Enoch Peserico.
2005.
Some com-putational complexity results for synchronous context-free grammars.
In Proceedings of the Conference onHuman Language Technology and Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing (HLT/EMNLP 05),pages 803?810, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Yves Schabes and Richard C. Waters.
1995.
Tree in-sertion grammar: A cubic time, parsable formalismthat lexicalizes context-free grammars without chang-ing the trees produced.
Computational Linguistics,21(3):479?512.Stuart M. Shieber and Yves Schabes.
1990.
Synchronoustree-adjoining grammars.
In Proceedings of the 13thInternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, volume 3, pages 253?258, Helsinki, Finland.Stuart M. Shieber.
1994.
Restricting the weak-generativecapacity of synchronous tree-adjoining grammars.Computational Intelligence, 10(4):371?385, Novem-ber.
Also available as cmp-lg/9404003.Stuart M. Shieber.
2004.
Synchronous grammars as treetransducers.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Interna-tional Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammar and Re-lated Formalisms (TAG+ 7), Vancouver, Canada, May20-22.Stuart M. Shieber.
2006.
Unifying synchronous tree-adjoining grammars and tree transducers via bimor-phisms.
In Proceedings of the 11th Conference ofthe European Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (EACL-06), Trento, Italy, 3?7 April.Warren Weaver.
1955.
Translation.
In W.N.
Lockeand A. D. Booth, editors, Machine Translation of Lan-guages: Fourteen Essays, pages 15?23.
TechnologyPress of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Hao Zhang, Liang Huang, Daniel Gildea, and KevinKnight.
2006.
Synchronous binarization for machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Hu-man Language Technology and Annual Meeting of theNorth American Chapter of the Association of Compu-tational Linguistics (HLT/NAACL 2006), pages 256?263, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.95
