Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Morphology and Phonology, pages 117?125,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsParaMor: Minimally Supervised Induction of ParadigmStructure and Morphological AnalysisChristian Monson, Jaime Carbonell, Alon Lavie, Lori LevinLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes Ave.Pittsburgh, PA, USA 15213{cmonson, alavie+, jgc+, lsl+}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractParadigms provide an inherentorganizational structure to natural languagemorphology.
ParaMor, our minimallysupervised morphology inductionalgorithm, retrusses the word forms of rawtext corpora back onto their paradigmaticskeletons; performing on par with state-of-the-art minimally supervised morphologyinduction algorithms at morphologicalanalysis of English and German.
ParaMorconsists of two phases.
Our algorithm firstconstructs sets of affixes closely mimickingthe paradigms of a language.
And withthese structures in hand, ParaMor thenannotates word forms with morphemeboundaries.
To set ParaMor?s few freeparameters we analyze a training corpus ofSpanish.
Without adjusting parameters, weinduce the morphological structure ofEnglish and German.
Adopting theevaluation methodology of MorphoChallenge 2007 (Kurimo et al, 2007), wecompare ParaMor?s morphologicalanalyses with Morfessor (Creutz, 2006), amodern minimally supervised morphologyinduction system.
ParaMor consistentlyachieves competitive F1 measures.1 IntroductionWords in natural language (NL) have internalstructure.
Morphological processes derive new lex-emes from old ones or inflect the surface form oflexemes to mark morphosyntactic features such astense, number, person, etc.
This paper addressminimally supervised induction of productive natu-ral language morphology from text.
Minimally su-pervised induction of morphology interests us bothfor practical and theoretical reasons.
In linguistictheory, the morpheme is often defined as thesmallest unit of language which conveys meaning.And yet, without annotating for meaning, recentwork on minimally supervised morphology induc-tion from written corpora has met with some suc-cess (Creutz, 2006).
We are curious how far thisprogram can be pushed.
From a practical perspec-tive, minimally supervised morphology inductionwould help create morphological analysis systemsfor languages outside the traditional scope of NLP.However, to develop our method we induce themorphological structure of three well-understoodlanguages, English, German, and Spanish.1.1 Inherent Structure in NL MorphologyThe approach we have taken to induce morpho-logical structure has explicit roots in linguistic the-ory.
Cross-linguistically, natural language organ-izes inflectional morphology into paradigms andinflection classes.
A paradigm is a set of mutuallyexclusive operations that can be performed on aword form.
Each mutually exclusive morphologi-cal operation in a paradigm marks a lexeme forsome set or cell of morphosyntactic features.
Aninflection class, meanwhile, specifies the proce-dural details that a particular set of adherent lex-emes follow to realize the surface form filling eachparadigm cell.
Each lexeme in a language adheresto a single inflection class for each paradigm thelexeme realizes.
The lexemes belonging to an in-flection class may have no relationship bindingthem together beyond an arbitrary morphologicalstipulation that they adhere to the same inflectionclass.
But for this paper, an inflection class may117also refer to a set of lexemes that inflect similarlyfor phonological or orthographic reasons.
Workingwith text we intentionally blur phonology and or-thography.A simple example will help illustrate paradigms,inflection classes, and the mutual exclusivity ofcells.
As shown in Table 1, all English verbsbelong to a single common paradigm of five cells:One cell marks a verb for the morphosyntacticfeature values present tense 3rd person, as in eats;another cell marks past tense, as in ate; a third cellholds a surface form typically used to markprogressive aspect, eating; a fourth produces apassive participle, eaten; and finally there is theunmarked cell, in this example eat.Aside from inflection classes each containingonly a few irregular lexemes, such as thatcontaining eat, there are no English verbalinflection classes that arbitrarily differentiatelexemes on purely morphological grounds.
Thereare, however, several inflection classes that realizesurface forms only for verbs with particularphonology or orthography.
The ?silent-e?
inflectionclass is one such.
To adhere to the ?silent-e?inflection class a lexeme must fill the unmarkedparadigm cell with a form that ends in an unspokencharacter e, as in dance.
The other paradigm cellsin the ?silent-e?
inflection class are filled byapplying orthographic rules such as:Progressive Aspect Cell ?
replace the final e ofthe unmarked form with the string ing,dance  dancingPast Cell ?
substitute ed, dance  dancedParadigm cells are mutually exclusive.
In the Eng-lish verbal paradigm, although English speakerscan express progressive past actions with agrammatical construction, viz.
was eating, there isno surface form of the lexeme eat thatsimultaneously fills both the progressive and thepast cells of the verbal paradigm, *ateing.1.2 ParaMorParadigms and inflection classes, the inherentstructure of natural language morphology, form thebasis of ParaMor, our minimally supervisedmorphological induction algorithm.
In ParaMor?sfirst phase, we find sets of mutually exclusivestrings which closely mirror the inflection classesof a language?although ParaMor does notdifferentiate between syncretic word forms of thesame lexeme filling different paradigm cells, suchas ed-suffixed forms which can fill either the pastor the passive cells of English verbs.
In ParaMor?ssecond phase we employ the structured knowledgecontained within the discovered inflection classesto segment word forms into morpheme-like pieces.Languages employ a variety of morphologicalprocesses to arrive at grammatical word forms?processes including suffix-, prefix-, and infixation,reduplication, and template filling.
Furthermore,the application of word forming processes oftentriggers phonological (or orthographic) change,such a as the dropped final e of the ?silent-e?inflection class, see Table 1.
Despite the widerange of morphological processes and theircomplicating concomitant phonology, a large casteof inflection classes, and hence paradigms, can berepresented as mutually exclusive substringsubstitutions.
In the ?silent-e?
inflection class, forexample, the word-final strings e.ed.es.ing can besubstituted for one another to produce the surfaceforms that fill the paradigm cells of lexemesbelonging to this inflection class.
In this paper wefocus on identifying word final suffix morphology.While we focus on suffixes, the methods weemploy can be straightforwardly generalized toprefixes and ongoing work seeks to modelsequences of concatenative morphemes.Inducing the morphology of a language from anaturally occurring text corpus is challenging.
Inlanguages with a rich morphological structure, sur-face forms filling particular cells of an inflectionclass may be relatively rare.
In the Spanish news-wire text over which we developed ParaMor thereare 50,000 unique types.
Among these types, in-Table 1: The English verbal paradigm, left col-umn, and two inflection classes of the verbalparadigm.
The verb eat fills the cells of its in-flection class with the five surface formsshown in the second column.
Verbs belongingto the ?silent-e?
inflection class inflect follow-ing the pattern of the third column.Inflection Class ParadigmCells ?eat?
?silent-e?Unmarked eat dance, erase, ?Present, 3rd eats dances, erases, ?Past Tense ate danced, erased, ?Progressive eating dancing, erasing, ?Passive eaten danced, erased, ?118stances of first and second person verb forms arefew.
The suffix imos which fills the first personplural indicative present cell for the ir verbal in-flection class of Spanish occurs on only 77 uniquelexemes.
And yet we aim to identify candidate in-flection classes which closely model the true in-flection classes of a language, covering as manyinflectional paradigm cells as possible.Fortunately, we can leverage the paradigm struc-ture of natural language morphology itself to retainmany inflections which, because of data sparse-ness, might be missed if considered in isolation.ParaMor begins with a recall-centric search forpartial candidate inflection classes.
Many of thecandidates which result from this initial search areincorrect.
But intermingled with the false positivesare candidates which collectively model significantfractions of true inflection classes.
Hence, Pa-raMor?s next step is to cluster the initial partialcandidate inflection classes into larger groups.
Thisclustering effectively uses the larger correct initialcandidates as nuclei to which smaller correct can-didates accrete.
With as many initial true candi-dates as possible safely corralled with other candi-dates covering the same inflection class, ParaMorcompletes the paradigm discovery phase by dis-carding the large number of erroneous initially se-lected candidate inflection classes.
Finally, with astrong grasp on the paradigm structure, ParaMorstraightforwardly segments the words of a corpusinto morphemes.1.3 Related WorkIn this section we highlight previously proposedminimally supervised approaches to the inductionof morphology that, like ParaMor, draw on theunique structure of natural language morphology.One facet of NL morphological structure com-monly leveraged by morphology induction algo-rithms is that morphemes are recurrent buildingblocks of words.
Brent et al (1995), Goldsmith(2001), and Creutz (2006) emphasize the buildingblock nature of morphemes when they each userecurring word segments to efficiently encode acorpus.
These approaches then hypothesize thatthose recurring segments which most efficientlyencode a corpus are likely morphemes.
Anothertechnique that exploits morphemes as repeatingsub-word segments encodes the lexemes of a cor-pus as a  character tree, i.e.
trie, (Harris, 1955;Hafer and Weis, 1974), or as a finite state automa-ton (FSA) over characters (Johnson, H. and Martin,2003; Altun and M. Johnson, 2001).
A trie or FSAconflates multiple instances of a morpheme into asingle sequence of states.
Because the choice ofpossible succeeding characters is highly con-strained within a morpheme, branch points in thetrie or FSA are likely morpheme boundaries.
Oftentrie similarities are used as a first step followed byfurther processing to identify morphemes (Schoneand Jurafsky, 2001).The paradigm structure of NL morphology hasalso been previously leveraged.
Goldsmith (2001)uses morphemes to efficiently encode a corpus, buthe first groups morphemes into paradigm likestructures he calls signatures.
To date, the workthat draws the most on paradigm structure isSnover (2002).
Snover incorporates paradigmstructure into a generative statistical model ofmorphology.
Additionally, to discover paradigmlike sets of suffixes, Snover designs and searchesnetworks of partial paradigms.
These networks arethe direct inspiration for ParaMor?s morphologyscheme networks described in section 2.1.2 ParaMor: Inflection Class Identification2.1 SearchA Search Space: The first stage of ParaMor is asearch procedure designed to identify partial in-flection classes containing as many true productivesuffixes of a language as possible.
To search forthese partial inflection classes we must first definea space to search over.
In a naturally occurringcorpus not all possible surface forms occur.
In acorpus, each stem adhering to an inflection classwill likely be observed in combination with only asubset of the suffixes in that inflection class.
Eachbox in Figure 1 depicts a small portion of the em-pirical co-occurrence of suffixes and stems from aSpanish newswire corpus of 50,000 types.
Eachbox in this figure contains a list of suffixes at thetop in bold, together with the total number, and afew examples (in italics), of stems that occurred inseparate word forms with each suffix in that box.For example, the box containing the suffixes e,er?, ieron, and i?
contains the stems deb andpadec because the word forms debe, padece, de-ber?, padecer?, etc.
all occurred in the corpus.
Wecall each possible pair of suffix and stem sets ascheme, and say that the e.er?.ieron.i?
schemecovers the words debe, padece, etc.
Note that ascheme contains both stems that occurred with ex-actly the set of suffixes in that scheme, as well as119stems that occurred with suffixes beyond just thosein the scheme.
For example, in addition to the foursuffixes e, er?, ieron, and i?, the stem deb oc-curred with the suffixes er and ido, as evident fromthe top left scheme e.er.er?.ido.ieron.i?
whichcontains the stem deb.
Intuitively, a scheme is asubset of the suffixes filling the paradigm cells of atrue inflection class together with the stems thatempirically occurred with that set of suffixes.The schemes in Figure 1 cover portions of the erand the ir Spanish verbal inflection classes.
Thetop left scheme of the figure contains suffixes inthe er inflection class, while the top center schemecontains suffixes in the ir inflection class.
The sixsuffixes in the top left scheme and the six suffixesin the top center scheme are just a few of thesuffixes in the full er and ir inflection classes.
Asis fairly common for inflection classes acrosslanguages, the sets of suffixes in the Spanish erand ir inflection classes overlap.
That is, verbs thatbelong to the er inflection class can take as a suffixcertain strings of characters that verbs belonging tothe ir inflection class can also take.
The suffixesthat are unique to the er verb inflection class in thetop left scheme are er and er?
; while the uniquesuffixes for the ir class in the top center scheme areir and ir?.
In the third row of the figure, thescheme e.ido.ieron.i?
contains only suffixes foundin both the er and ir schemes.While the example schemes in Figure 1 are cor-rect and do occur in a real Spanish newswire cor-pus, the schemes are atypically perfect.
There isonly one suffix appearing in Figure 1 that is not atrue suffix of Spanish?azar in the upper rightscheme.
In unsupervised morphology induction wedo not know a priori the correct suffixes of a lan-guage.
Hence, we form schemes by proposing can-didate morpheme boundaries at every characterboundary in every word, including the characterboundary after the final character in each wordform, to allow for empty suffixes.Schemes of suffixes and their exhaustively co-occurring stems define a natural search space overpartial inflection classes because schemes readilyorganize by the suffixes and stems they contain.We define a parent-child relationship between aparent scheme, P  and a child scheme C , when Pcontains all the suffixes that C  contains and whenP  contains exactly one more suffix than C .
InFigure 1, parent child relations are represented bysolid lines connecting boxed schemes.
The schemee.er.er?.ido.ieron.i?, for example, is the parent ofthree depicted children in Figure 1, one of which ise.er.er?.ieron.i?.Our search strategy exploits a fundamentalaspect of the relationship between parent and childschemes.
Consider the number of stems in a parentscheme P  as compared to the number of stems inany one of its children C .
Since P  contains all thesuffixes which C  contains, and because P  onlycontains stems that occurred with every suffix inP , P  can at most contain exactly the stems Ccontains and typically will contain fewer.
In theSpanish corpus from which the scheme network ofFigure 1 was built, 32 stems occur in forms witheach of the five suffixes e, er, er?, ieron, and i?attached.
But only 28 of these 32 stems occur inyet another form involving ido?the stem deb didbut the stems padec and romp did not, for example.A Search Strategy: To search for schemeswhich cover portions of the true inflection classesof a language, ParaMor?s search starts at the bot-tom of the network.
The lowest level in the schemee.er.er?.ido.ieron.i?28: deb, escog, ofrec, roconoc, vend, ...e.ido.ieron.ir.ir?.i?28: asist, dirig, exig, ocurr, sufr, ...e.er?.ido.ieron.i?28: deb, escog, ...e.er.ido.ieron.i?46: deb, parec, recog...e.ido.ieron.ir?.i?28: asist, dirig, ...e.ido.ieron.ir.i?39: asist, bat, sal, ...e.er.er?.ieron.i?32: deb, padec, romp, ...e.ido.ieron.i?86: asist, deb, hund,...e.er?.ieron.i?32: deb, padec, ...er.ido.ieron.i?58: ascend, ejerc, recog, ...ido.ieron.ir.i?44: interrump, sal, ...Figure 1: A small portion of a morphology scheme network?our search space of partial empirical in-flection classes.
This network was built from a Spanish Newswire corpus of 50,000 types, 1.26 milliontokens.
Each box contains a scheme.
The suffixes of each scheme appear in bold at the top of each box.The total number of adherent stems for each scheme, together with a few exemplar stems, is in italics.Stems are underlined if they do not appear in any parent shown in this figure.azar.e.ido.ieron.ir.i?1: sal120network consists of schemes which contain exactlyone suffix together with all the stems that occurredin the corpus with that suffix attached.
ParaMorconsiders each one-suffix scheme in turn beginningwith that scheme containing the most stems, work-ing toward schemes containing fewer.
From eachbottom scheme, ParaMor follows a single greedyupward path from child to parent.
As long as anupward path takes at least one step, making it to ascheme containing two or more alternating suf-fixes, our search strategy accepts the terminalscheme of the path as likely modeling a portion ofa true inflection class.Each greedily chosen upward step is based ontwo criteria.
The first criterion considers thenumber of adherent stems in the current scheme ascompared to its parents?
adherent sizes.
A varietyof statistics could judge the stem-strength of parentschemes: ranging from simple ratios through(dis)similarity measures, such as the dicecoefficient or mutual information, to full fledgedstatistical tests.
After experimenting with a rangeof such statistics we found, somewhat surprisingly,that measuring the ratio of parent stem size to childstem size correctly identifies parent schemes whichcontain only true suffixes just as consistently asmore sophisticated tests.
While a full report of ourexperiments is beyond the scope of this paper, theshort explanation of this behavior is datasparseness.
Many upward search steps start fromschemes containing few stems.
And when littledata is available no statistic is particularly reliable.Parent-child stem ratios have two additionalcomputational advantages over other measures.First, they are quick to compute and second, theparent with the largest stem ratio is always thatparent with the most stems.
So, being greedy, eachsearch step simply moves to that parent, P , withthe most stems, as long as the parent-child stemratio to P  is large.
The threshold above which astem ratio is considered large enough to warrant anupward step is a free parameter.
As the goal of thisinitial search stage is to identify schemes contain-ing as wide a variety of productive suffixes as pos-sible, we want to set the parent-child stem ratiothreshold as low as possible.
But a ratio thresholdthat is too small will allow search paths to schemescontaining unproductive and spurious suffixes.
Inpractice, for Spanish, we have found that settingthe parent-child stem ratio cutoff much below 0.25results in schemes that begin to include only mar-ginally productive derivational suffixes.
For thispaper we leave the parent-child stem ratio cutoffparameter at 0.25.Alone, stem strength assessments of parentschemes, such as parent-child stem ratios, falter asa search path nears the top of the morphologyscheme network.
Monotonically decreasing adher-ent stem size causes statistics that assess parents?stem-strength to become less and less reliable.Hence, the second criterion governing each searchstep helps to halt upward search paths before judg-ing parents?
worth becomes impossible.
Whilethere are certainly many possible stopping criteria,ParaMor?s policy stops each upward search pathwhen there is no parent scheme with more stemsthan it has suffixes.
We devised this halting condi-tion for two reasons.
First, requiring each pathscheme to contain more stems than suffixes attainshigh suffix recall.
High recall results from setting alow bar for upward movement at the bottom of thenetwork.
Search paths which begin from schemeswhose single suffix is rare in the text corpus canoften take one or two upward search steps andreach a scheme containing the necessary three orfour stems.
Second, this halting criterion requiresthe top scheme of search paths that climb high inthe network to contain a comparatively large num-ber of stems.
Reigning in high-reaching searchpaths before the stem count falls too far, capturespath-terminal schemes which cover a large numberof word types.
In the second stage of ParaMor?sinflection class identification phase these largerterminal schemes effectively vacuum up the usefulsmaller paths that result from the more rare suf-fixes.
Figure 2 contains examples of schemes se-lected by ParaMor?s initial search.To evaluate ParaMor at paradigm identification,we hand compiled an answer key of the inflectionclasses of Spanish.
This answer key contains nineproductive inflection classes.
Three contain thesuffixes of the ar, er, and ir verbal inflectionclasses.
There are two orthographically differenti-ated inflection classes for nouns in the answer key:one for nouns that form the plural by adding s, andone for nouns that take es.
Adjectives in Spanishinflect for gender and number.
Arguably, genderand number each constitute separate paradigms,each with two cells.
But here we conflated theseinto a single inflection class with four cells.
Fi-nally, there are three inflection classes in our an-swer key covering Spanish clitics.
Spanish verbalclitics behave orthographically as agglutinativesequences of suffixes.121In a corpus of Spanish newswire text of 50,000types and 1.26 million tokens, the initial searchidentifies schemes containing 92% of all ideal in-flectional suffixes of Spanish, or 98% of the idealsuffixes that occurred at least twice in the corpus.There are selected schemes which contain portionsof each of the nine inflection classes in the answerkey.
The high recall of the initial search comes, ofcourse, at the expense of precision.
While there arenine inflection-classes and 87 unique suffixes inthe hand-built answer key for Spanish, 8339schemes are selected containing 9889 unique can-didate suffixes.2.2 Clustering Partial Inflection ClassesWhile the third step of inflection class identifica-tion, discussed in Section 2.3, directly improvesthe initial search?s low precision by filtering outbogus schemes, the second step, described here,conflates selected schemes which model portionsof the same inflection class.
Consider the fifth andtwelfth schemes selected by ParaMor from ourSpanish corpus, as shown in Figure 2.
Both ofthese schemes contain a large number of suffixesfrom the Spanish ar verbal inflection class.
Andwhile each contains many overlapping suffixes,each possesses correct suffixes which the otherdoes not.
Meanwhile, the 1591st selected schemecontains four suffixes of the ir verbal inflectionclass, including the only instance of ir?
that occursin any selected scheme.
Containing only six stems,the 1591st scheme could accidentally be filtered outduring the third phase of inflection class identifica-tion.
Hence, the rationale for clustering initial se-lected schemes is two fold.
First, by consolidatingschemes which cover portions of the same inflec-tion class we produce sets of suffixes which moreclosely model the paradigm structure of naturallanguage morphology.
And, second, corralling cor-rect schemes safeguards against losing unique suf-fixes.The clustering of schemes presents two uniquechallenges.
First, we must avoid over-clusteringschemes which model distinct inflection classes.As noted in Section 2.1, it is common, cross-linguistically, for the suffixes of inflection classesto overlap.
Looking at Figure 2, we must be carefulnot to merge the 209th selected scheme, whichmodels a portion of the er verbal inflection class,with the 1591st selected scheme, which models their class?despite these schemes sharing two suf-fixes, ido and idos.
As the second challenge, themany small schemes which the search strategyproduces act as distractive noise during clustering.While small schemes containing correct suffixesdo exist, e.g.
the 1591st scheme, the vast majorityof schemes containing few stems and suffixes areincorrect collections of word final strings that hap-pen to occur in corpus word forms attached to asmall number of shared initial strings.
ParaMor?sclustering algorithm should, for example, avoidplacing ?.s and ?.ipo, respectively the 1st and1590th selected schemes, in the same cluster.
Al-though ?.ipo shares the null suffix with the validnominal scheme ?.s, the string ?ipo?
is not a mor-phological suffix of Spanish.To form clusters of related schemes while ad-dressing both the challenge of observing a lan-guage?s paradigm structure as well as the challengeof merging in the face of many small incorrectlyselected schemes, ParaMor adapts greedy hierar-chical agglomerative clustering.
We modify vanillabottom-up clustering by placing restrictions onwhich clusters are allowed to merge.
The first re-striction helps ensure that schemes modeling dis-tinct but overlapping inflection classes remainseparated.
The restriction: do not place into thesame cluster suffixes which share no stem in thecorpus.
This restriction retains separate clusters forseparate inflection classes because a lexeme?s stemFigure 2: The suffixes of some schemes selectedby the initial search over a Spanish corpus of50,000 types.
While some selected schemescontain large numbers of correct suffixes, suchas the 1st, 2nd, 5th, 12th, 209th, and 1591st selectedschemes; many others are incorrect collectionsof word final strings.1) ?.s 5501 stems2) a.as.o.os 892 stems...5) a.aba.aban.ada.adas.ado.ados.an.ando.ar.aron.arse.ar?.ar?n.?
25 stems...12) a.aba.ada.adas.ado.ados.an.ando.ar.aron.ar?.ar?n.e.en.?
21 stems...209) e.er.ida.idas.ido.idos.imiento.i?
9 stems...1590) ?.ipo 4 stems1591) ido.idos.ir.ir?
6 stems1592) ?.e.iu 4 stems1593) iza.izado.izan.izar.izaron.izar?n.iz?...
8 stems122occurring with suffixes unique to that lexeme?sinflection class will not occur with suffixes uniqueto some other inflection class.Alone, requiring all pairs of suffixes in a clusterto occur in the corpus with some common stemwill not prevent small bogus schemes, such as?.ipo from attaching to correct schemes, such as?.s?the ipo.s scheme contains two ?stems,?
theword form initial strings ?ma?
and ?t?.
And so asecond restriction is required.
This second restric-tion employs a heuristic specifically adapted toParaMor?s initial search strategy.
As discussed inSection 2.1, in addition to many schemes whichcontain only few suffixes, ParaMor?s initial net-work search also identifies multiple overlappingschemes containing significant subsets of the suf-fixes in an inflection class.
The 5th, 12th, and 209thselected schemes of Figure 2 are three such largerschemes.
ParaMor restricts cluster merges heuristi-cally by requiring at least one large scheme foreach small scheme the cluster contains, where wemeasure the size of a scheme as the number ofunique word forms it covers.
The threshold sizeabove which schemes are considered large is thesecond of ParaMor?s two free parameters.
Thescheme size threshold is reused during ParaMor?sfiltering stage.
We discuss the unsupervised proce-dure we use to set the size threshold when we pre-sent the details of cluster filtering in Section 2.3.We have found that with these two cluster re-strictions in place, the particular metric we use tomeasure the similarity of scheme-clusters does notsignificantly affect clustering.
For the experimentswe report here, we measure the similarity ofscheme-clusters as the cosine between the sets ofall possible stem-suffix pairs the clusters contain.A stem-suffix pair occurs in a cluster if somescheme belonging to that cluster contains both thatstem and that suffix.
With these adaptations, weallow agglomerative clustering to proceed untilthere are no more clusters that can legally bemerged.2.3 Filtering of Inflection ClassesWith most valid schemes having found a safe ha-ven in a cluster with other schemes modeling thesame inflection class, we turn our attention to im-proving scheme-cluster precision.
ParaMor appliesa series of filters, culling out unwanted scheme-clusters.
The first filter is closely related to thecluster restriction on scheme size discussed in Sec-tion 2.2.
ParaMor discards all unclustered schemesfalling below the size threshold used during clus-tering.
Figure 3 graphs the number of Spanish clus-ters which survive this size-based filtering step asthe threshold size is varied.
Figure 3 also containsa plot of the recall of unique Spanish suffixes as afunction of this threshold.
As the size threshold isincreased the number of remaining clusters quicklydrops.
But suffix recall only slowly falls during thesteep decline in cluster count, indicating ParaMordiscards mostly bogus schemes containing illicitsuffixes.
Because recall is relatively stable, the ex-act size threshold we use should have only a minoreffect on ParaMor?s final morphological analyses.In fact, we have not fully explored the ramifica-tions various threshold values have on the finalmorphological word segmentations, but have sim-ply picked a reasonable setting, 37 covered wordtypes.
At this threshold, the number of scheme-clusters is reduced by more than 98%, while thenumber of unique candidate suffixes in any clusteris reduced by more than 85%.
Note that the initialnumber of selected schemes, 8339, falls outside thescale of Figure 3.Of the scheme-clusters which remain after sizebased filtering is complete, by far the largest cate-gory of incorrect clusters contains schemes which,like the 1593rd selected scheme, shown in Figure 2,incorrectly hypothesize morpheme boundaries oneor more characters to the left of the true boundary.To filter out these incorrectly segmented clusterswe use a technique inspired by Harris (1955).
Foreach initial string common to all suffixes in thecluster, for each scheme in the cluster, we examinethe network scheme containing the suffixes formedby stripping the initial string from the scheme?sFigure 3: The # of clusters and their recall ofunique Spanish suffixes as the scheme-clustersize cutoff is varied.
The value of each functionat the threshold we use in all experiments re-ported in this paper is that of the larger symbol.020040060080010000 50 100 150Scheme or Cluster Size#of Clusters00.20.40.60.81Recall# of ClustersRecall123suffixes.
We then measure the entropy of leftwardtrie characters of the stripped scheme.
If the en-tropy is large, then the character stripped scheme islikely at a morpheme boundary and the originalscheme is likely modeling an incorrect morphemeboundary.
This algorithm would throw out the1593rd selected scheme because the stems in thescheme a.ado.an.ar.aron.ar?n.?
end in a widevariety of characters, yielding high trie entropy,and signaling a likely morpheme boundary.Because we apply morpheme boundary filteringafter we have clustered, the redundancy of themany schemes in the cluster makes this filter quiterobust, letting us set the cutoff parameter as low aswe like avoiding another free parameter.2.4 Segmentation and EvaluationWord segmentation is our final step of morpholo-gical analysis.
ParaMor?s current segmentationalgorithm is perhaps the most simple paradigminspired segmentation algorithm possible.
Essen-tially, ParaMor strips off suffixes which likely par-ticipate in a paradigm.
To segment any word, w ,ParaMor identifies all scheme-clusters that containa non-empty suffix that matches a word final stringof w .
For each such matching suffix, Cf ?
,where C is the cluster containing f , we strip ffrom w  obtaining a stem t .
If there is some sec-ond suffix Cf ??
such that ft ?.
is a word formfound in either of the training or the test corpora,then ParaMor proposes a segmentation of w  be-tween t  and f .
ParaMor, here, identifies f  andf ?
as mutually exclusive suffixes from the sameparadigm.
If ParaMor finds no complex analysis,then we propose w  itself as the sole analysis of theword.
Note that for each word form, ParaMor maypropose multiple separate segmentation analyseseach containing a single proposed stem and suffix.To evaluate ParaMor?s morphological segmenta-tions we follow the methodology of Morpho Chal-lenge 2007 (Kurimo et al, 2007), a minimally su-pervised morphology induction competition.
Wordsegmentations are evaluated in Morpho Challenge2007 by comparing against hand annotated mor-phological analyses.
The correctness of proposedmorphological analyses is computed in MorphoChallenge 2007 by comparing pairs of word formswhich share portions of their analyses.
Recall ismeasured by first sampling pairs of words from theanswer analyses which share a stem or morphosyn-tactic feature and then noting if that pair of wordforms shares a morpheme in any of their proposedanalyses.
Precision is measured analogously, sam-pling morpheme-sharing pairs of words from theproposed analyses and noting if that pair of wordsshares a feature in any correct analysis of thosewords.We evaluate ParaMor on two languages notexamined during the development of ParaMor?sinduction algorithms: English and German.
Andwe evaluate with each of these two languages attwo tasks:1.
Analyzing inflectional morphology alone2.
Jointly analyzing inflectional and derivationalmorphology.We constructed Morpho Challenge 2007 styleanswer keys for each language and each task usingthe Celex database (Burnage, 1990).
The Englishand German corpora we test over are the corporaavailable through Morpho Challenge 2007.
TheEnglish corpus contains nearly 385,000 types,while the German corpus contains more than 1.26million types.
ParaMor induced paradigmaticscheme-clusters over these larger corpora byreading just the top 50,000 most frequent types.But with the scheme-clusters in hand, ParaMorsegmented all the types in each corpus.We compare ParaMor to Morfessor v0.9.2(Creutz, 2006), a state-of-the-art minimally super-vised morphology induction algorithm.
Morfessorhas a single free parameter.
To make for stiff com-petition, we report results for Morfessor at that pa-rameter setting which maximized F1 on each sepa-rate test scenario.
We did not vary the two free pa-rameters of ParaMor, but hold each of ParaMor?sparameters at a setting which produced reasonableSpanish suffix sets, see sections 2.1-2.2.
Table 2contains the evaluation results.
To estimate thevariance of our experimental results we measuredMorpho Challenge 2007 style precision, recall, andF1 on multiple non-overlapping pairs of 1000 fea-ture-sharing words.Neither ParaMor nor Morfessor arise in Table 2as clearly superior.
Each algorithm outperforms theother at F1 in some scenario.
Examining precisionand recall is more illuminating.
ParaMor attainsparticularly high recall of inflectional affixes forboth English and German.
We conjecture that Pa-raMor?s strong performance at identifying inflec-tional morphemes comes from closely modelingthe natural paradigm structure of language.
Con-versely, Morfessor places its focus on precisionand does not rely on any property exclusive to in-flectional (or derivational) morphology.
Hence,124Morfessor attains high precision with reasonablerecall when graded against an answer key contain-ing both inflectional and derivational morphology.We are excited by ParaMor?s strongperformance and are eager to extend our algorithm.We believe the precision of ParaMor?s simplesegmentation algorithm can be improved bynarrowing down the proposed analyses for eachword to the most likely.
Perhaps ParaMor andMorfessor?s vastly different strategies formorphology induction could be combined into ahybrid strategy more successful than either alone.And ambitiously, we hope to extend ParaMor toanalyze languages with agglutinative sequences ofaffixes by generalizing the definition of a scheme.AcknowledgementsThe research reported in this paper was funded inpart by NSF grant number IIS-0121631.ReferencesAltun, Yasemin, and Mark Johnson.
"InducingSFA with -Transitions Using MinimumDescription Length."
Finite State Methods inNatural Language Processing Workshop atESSLLI Helsinki: 2001.Brent, Michael R., Sreerama K. Murthy, andAndrew Lundberg.
"Discovering MorphemicSuffixes: A Case Study in MDL Induction."
TheFifth International Workshop on Artificial Intel-ligence and Statistics Fort Lauderdale, Florida,1995.Burnage, Gavin.
Celex?A Guide for Users.Springer, Centre for Lexical information,Nijmegen, the Netherlands, 1990.Creutz, Mathias.
?Induction of the Morphology ofNatural Language: Unsupervised MorphemeSegmentation with Application to AutomaticSpeech Recognition.?
Ph.D. Thesis in Computerand Information Science, Report D13.
Helsinki:University of Technology, Espoo, Finland, 2006.Goldsmith, John.
"Unsupervised Learning of theMorphology of a Natural Language."
Computa-tional Linguistics 27.2 (2001): 153-198.Hafer, Margaret A., and Stephen F. Weiss.
"WordSegmentation by Letter Successor Varieties.
"Information Storage and Retrieval 10.11/12(1974): 371-385.Harris, Zellig.
"From Phoneme to Morpheme.
"Language 31.2 (1955): 190-222.
Reprinted inHarris 1970.Harris, Zellig.
Papers in Structural andTransformational Linguists.
Ed.
D. Reidel,Dordrecht 1970.Johnson, Howard, and Joel Martin.
"UnsupervisedLearning of Morphology for English and Inuk-titut."
Human Language Technology Conference/ North American Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (HLT-NAACL).Edmonton, Canada: 2003.Kurimo, Mikko, Mathias Creutz, and MattiVarjokallio.
?Unsupervised Morpheme Analysis?
Morpho Challenge 2007.?
March 26, 2007.<http://www.cis.hut.fi/morphochallenge2007/>Schone, Patrick, and Daniel Jurafsky.
"Know-ledge-Free Induction of Inflectional Morpho-logies."
North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(NAACL).
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: 2001.
183-191.Snover, Matthew G. "An Unsupervised KnowledgeFree Algorithm for the Learning of Morphologyin Natural Languages."
Sever Institute of Tech-nology, Computer Science Saint Louis, Mis-souri: Washington University, M.S.
Thesis,2002.Table 2: ParaMor segmentations compared to Morfessor?s (Creutz, 2006) evaluated for Precision, Recall,F1, and standard deviation of F1, , in four scenarios.
Segmentations over English and German are eachevaluated against correct morphological analyses consisting, on the left, of inflectional morphologyonly, and on the right, of both inflectional and derivational morphology.Inflectional Morphology Only Inflectional & Derivational MorphologyEnglish German English GermanP R F1  P R F1  P R F1  P R F1Morfessor 53.3 47.0 49.9 1.3 38.7 44.2 41.2 0.8 73.6 34.0 46.5 1.1 66.9 37.1 47.7 0.7ParaMor 33.0 81.4 47.0 0.9 42.8 68.6 52.7 0.8 48.9 53.6 51.1 0.8 60.0 33.5 43.0 0.7125
