Proceedings of the Workshop on Embodied Language Processing, pages 33?40,Prague, Czech Republic, June 28, 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsA ?person?
in the interface: effects on user perceptions ofmultibiometrics?lvaro Hern?ndez, Beatriz L?pez, David D?az,Rub?n Fern?ndez, Luis Hern?ndezGAPS, Signal, Systems and RadiocommunicationsDepartmentUniversidad Polit?cnica de MadridCiudad Universitaria s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spainalvaro@gaps.ssr.upm.esJavier CamineroMultilinguism & Speech TechnologyGroupTelef?nica I+DEmilio Vargas,6, 28043,Madrid,Spainfjcg@tid.esAbstractIn this paper we explore the possibilitiesthat conversational agent technology offersfor the improvement of the quality of hu-man-machine interaction in a concrete areaof application: the multimodal biometricauthentication system.
Our approach looksat the user perception effects related to thesystem interface rather than to the perform-ance of the biometric technology itself.
Forthis purpose we have created a multibio-metric user test environment with two dif-ferent interfaces or interaction metaphors:one with an embodied conversational agentand the other with on-screen text messagesonly.
We present the results of an explora-tory experiment that reveals interesting ef-fects, related to the presence of a conversa-tional agent, on the user?s perception of pa-rameters such as privacy, ease of use, inva-siveness or system security.1 IntroductionThe term biometrics, in Information Technology,refers to an array of techniques to identify peoplebased on one or more unique behavioural orphysiological characteristics.
The techniques them-selves have improved considerably over the pastfew decades, in terms of performanceand reliability, with reported error rates at levelsthat indicate a reasonable level of technologicalmaturity (Wayman et al, 2005).
But in order to betruly useful the technology has to be acceptable topeople in each of its areas of application.
It iswidely recognised (BioSec, 2004) that to achievethis goal a user-centred understanding much deeperthan that which we have today is needed, and onewhich encompasses the important problem of in-teraction with the interface.
These, of course, arebasic goals of the more general field of Human-Computer Interaction, added to which are morespecific issues regarding security (Sasse, 2004).As regards application interface technology,ever more realistic animated characters or embod-ied conversational agents (ECAs) are being gradu-ally introduced in the hope that they will enhancethe users?
experience and enrich the interaction.Some applications of ECAs promise to bring uscloser to achieving universal usability.
For in-stance, they can be used to communicate withhearing impaired people through sign language(Huenerfauth, 2005) or lip-reading (Beskow et al,2004).
Furthermore, language and the appearance,style, gesture repertoire and attitude of the charac-ter can be tuned to each application?s context, touser preferences, and more importantly to take intoaccount cultural particularities.The effects of animated characters on users andon the dynamics of user-system interaction are stillunclear, as is the question of how to use them inorder to maximize the benefits desired.
However,the literature does report significant improvementsin users?
perception of the system and their interac-tion with it when the interface includes an ani-mated character (Moundridou and Virvou, 2001;Mori et al, 2003; Van Mulken et al, 1998).33In what way and to what extent are the percep-tions of users affected by the presence of an ani-mated character in the system interface?
And howdoes this affect users?
opinion and acceptance of abiometric authentication system?
We designed anexperiment to learn a bit more about these impor-tant usability questions.
Expanding on previousstudies of factors that impact on the usability of abiometric authentication system, the present paperreports the differences we have found in the sub-jective perceptions of users interacting with ourbiometric authentication system through interfacesoffering two different forms of assistance: informa-tion and assistance in the form of text shown on-screen, and given by a talking animated character.In the following section we review a variety ofsocial and user perception parameters identified inthe literature as being potentially affected by anECA.
In section 3 we describe our user test frame-work and we show our results in section 4.2 BackgroundAccording to Nass et al (1994) human?machineinteraction is fundamentally social.
This has clearimplications for user interface design.
The user?sview of how the system works doesn?t always cor-respond to the actual way the technology works,but, rather, it depends on the user?s preconceptions,on the interaction process itself and on mentalmodels that are influenced by the system interface.Introducing an ECA in the interface can have avisual impact on the user that can affect her per-ception of the system as a whole.
Ruttkay et al(2002) compile a number of user parameters (suchas trust, ease of use, effectiveness, and personaltaste) that have been shown in the literature to beaffected by the presence of an ECA.Basically, there are two lines of work related tothe effects of ECAs on the users?
perception of asystem.
On one hand, the so called ?persona ef-fect,?
associated with the presence of the ECA, andon the other, effects connected with the character-istics or qualities a specific ECA might have.2.1 The persona effectPeople seem to like and enjoy using systems withECAs more than without them, they tend to findsystems easier to use and tasks easier to accom-plish, and they also feel more motivated and findlearning easier (both learning to use the system andlearning about a particular subject in the case ofteaching applications), even though their perform-ance is in fact roughly the same as that of usersinteracting without the ECA: Some authors specu-late that objective performance improvements be-yond user perceptions will be achieved in the long-run.
For instance, Moundridou and Virvou (2001)believe that the increased motivation of studentsusing a tutor application with an animated charac-ter may enhance their learning capacity in the long-term.Animated characters can even help contain userstress and frustration caused by difficulties duringinteraction with the system (Mori et al, 2003), andas a result they may improve the efficiency of theinteraction over that of a text-only system (Hone etal., 2003).
An interesting point is that many ofthese psychological effects are observed as a re-sponse to the mere presence of the animated char-acter, without it providing any obvious cues or ex-pression to help the user: people?s perceptionshave also been found to be affected by an ECA?sbehaviour.
The phenomenon has been called ?Per-sona Effect?
(Lester et al, 1997).
Later research(Van Mulken et al, 1998) has shown that the merepresence of an ECA can make tasks seem easierand more enjoyable to the user.
Furthermore, anECA showing greater empathic emotion towardsthe user improves the latter?s overall impression ofthe system and perception of ease of use (Brave etal., 2005; Mori et al, 2003).The presence of a human-like character can alsohave potential dangers such as the system anthro-pomorphisation effect that may lead to users hav-ing unrealistic expectations that are frustrated byactual interaction, as Walker et al (1994) pointsout, concluding that a human face in an interfacecan help attract the user?s attention and increaseher level of motivation.
At the same time, how-ever, it can create high expectations about the in-telligence of the system, which can lead to frustra-tion if they are then not met.2.2 ECA feature-related effectsSome authors have studied how the attitude dis-played by the ECA, for instance regarding its pro-activity and reactivity (Xiao et.
al, 2004), may in-duce in the user certain responses such as a senseof ease of use, system usefulness, frustration orsluggishness in task execution.
Indeed, it has beenshown that an affective and empathic attitude on34the part of the ECA can have a very positive effecton the user?s perception of the interaction, lower-ing the level of frustration (Hone et al, 2003; Moriet al, 2003) and improving the user?s opinion ofthe system (Brave et.
al 2005).Another line of research deals with the gesturesand nonverbal behaviour of the ECA.
A good ges-tural repertoire may promote in the user a percep-tion of naturalness of interaction with the systemand system socialness (see, e.g., Cassell and Bick-more, 2000).The physical appearance of the ECA has alsobeen seen to have an influence on the user.
Forinstance, Leenheer (2006) has studied the effect ofthe colour of the clothing on the ECA, and Hone(2006) shows that a female character reduces userfrustration levels better than a male one.
Hone alsopoints out that the actual efficiency of the interac-tion may depend on the ECAs characteristics.Dehn and Van Mulken (2000) suggest that thegreat variability of results in the literature may bedue not only to the different features of the ECAsacross the studies, but also to the different areas ofapplication in which the ECAs were used.
In thispaper we present a study of the influence of anECA in a specific application domain: biometricauthentication.
First we identify the user percep-tion parameters that we have considered may beaffected by the ECA.
Then we describe our ex-ploratory test to examine the persona effect.
Wehave left the observation of the effects of thephysical, attitudinal and gestural features of theECA for future experiments.3 Test designWe created a multibiometric authentication testplatform with two user interfaces, one with anECA guiding the user through the steps of the re-quired tasks, the other with the same informationprovided only through text displayed on the screen.We asked the users to carry out two general tasks:a) to try to access the system acting as impostors,and b) to enrol using their own biometric traits andthen authenticate their real identity.3.1 System architectureThe test platform architecture simulates a scenarioin which a user has to securely access restrictedinformation stored on a remote server across an IPnetwork (Internet or Intranet).
In order to accesssuch information the user?s identity must be au-thenticated on the basis of two biometric traits(hence our characterisation of the system as multi-biometric).
The user may choose the two modesshe wishes to authenticate her identity with fromamong the following four: fingerprint, signature,voice and iris pattern.The specific technologies used for each biomet-ric mode were:?
Fingerprint: Sensor: Precise 100 digitalfingerprint reader.
Software: ?Precise Java?by Precise Biometrics.
(Precise Biometrics,2007).?
Signature: Sensor: Wacom Intuous2 A6digitizing tablet (WACOM, 2007).
Soft-ware: CiC iSign verification software (CIC,2007).?
Voice: Sensor: standard microphone.Software: speech and speaker recognition byNuance Communications (Nuance, 2007).?
Iris: Sensor: Panasonic Autenticam BM-100ET iris video camera (Panasonic, 2007).Software: ?Private ID?
recognition algo-rithms by Iridian (Iridian Technologies,2007).3.2 User interfaceWe have created a web interface (using Java App-let technology) with five flaps; one to access thegeneral instructions of use, and one for each of thefour biometric modes (in left to right order: finger-print, signature, voice and iris).
Below is a biomet-ric trait visualisation area and a text message barthrough which (in addition to the ECA) the systemguides the user throughout the interaction.In addition, we divided the test users into twogroups to which we presented two different inter-action ?metaphors?:?
ECA Metaphor: An ECA is permanentlypresent on the right side of the screen to as-sist the user by giving her general instruc-tions and guiding her through the steps ofthe interaction.
The ECA gives no informa-tion regarding the details of each particularbiometric mode.
The ECA has been createdand integrated into our application using thetechnology provided by Haptek (Haptek,2007).
The ECA uses free Spanish Text-To-Speech (TTS) software (Lernout and Haus-35pie, 2007) to speak to the user.
Figure 1shows the interface with the ECA.?
TEXT Metaphor: The user is only guidedthrough text messages.Note: In the ECA metaphor the text message barremains active, serving as subtitles to what theECA says.
The messages read by the ECA are ex-actly the same as those given in text form in bothmetaphores.Figure 1: User interface for the multibiometric au-thentication system.3.3 Description of the testsWe designed the tests following the recommenda-tions issued by the International Biometric Group(IBG, 2006).
We worked with a sample of 20 us-ers, half of which interacted with the ECA meta-phor and the other half with the TEXT metaphor.The users carried out the following tasks distrib-uted in two separate sessions (on different days):?
On the first day an experimenter trainedeach participant in the use of each biometricmode.
The training is specific for each modeand results in the creation of a biometrictrait pattern for each user.
After creating theuser models the impostor tests were carriedout.
We allowed the users to consult thebiometric traits (i.e., fingerprint, signature,voice sample and picture of the iris) of fourpeople (2 females and 2 males), and weasked them to choose one of them in each offive impersonation attempts.
In order to ac-cess the system (in this case as impostors)users had to successfully mimic any twobiometric traits of the same person.
The sys-tem returned the result of the attempt (suc-cess or failure) at the end of the verificationprocess.
After taking all of the 5 attemptsthe users were directed to a web question-naire to rate the ease of use, sense of secu-rity and preference of each of the biometricmodes, and to give an overall score for thesystem.?
The second day the users were asked to au-thenticate their own identity.
The task wasto successfully access the system three timesin a maximum of 6 attempts.
Just as in theimpostor attempts, users had to enter two oftheir biometric traits in succession, afterwhich they were informed of the system?sdecision to accept or reject them.
In case offailure in either of the two chosen modes,the system didn?t inform the users of whichmode failed.
At the end of this second ses-sion the users completed another web ques-tionnaire to give us their evaluation of sys-tem privacy and an overall score of merit forthe system, and for each biometric modethey rated pleasantness, ease of use andpreference.
In addition, those users who in-teracted with the ECA metaphor were askedto rate the usefulness and pleasantness of theECA.In addition to the questionnaire information wecollected user-system interaction efficiency datasuch as number of failures, verification times andso on.
However, in this paper we focus primarilyon the users?
impressions.
To summarise, the pa-rameters we have analysed are Preference, Secu-rity, Ease-of-use, Pleasantness and Privacy, allmeasured on 7-point Likert scales.4 ResultsWe carried out a series of two sample t-tests on thetwo groups of users (ECA Metaphor and TEXTMetaphor) and examined the influence of the ECAon the subjective parameters of the interaction.
Foreach of the tests we propose a null hypothesis, HO,and an alternative hypothesis, H1.
We have chosenthe 5% (p=0.05) significance level to reject the nullhypothesis.
(The questionnaire values were nor-malised to values between ?3 and 3 for statisticalprocessing.
)364.1 Comparative analysis of the ECA yTEXT metaphorsOur general working hypothesis is that interactionwith the ECA interface will be more pleasant forthe user, which will result in a higher opinion ofthe system.
We specify this in a series of hypothe-ses for each of the perception parameters we intro-duced in the previous section:Hypothesis 1:HO: ECA and TEXT Metaphor users rate theease-of-use of the biometric modes equally.H1: ECA Metaphor users rate the ease-of-use ofthe biometric modes significantly higher thanTEXT Metaphor users.The average ease-of-use score for the ECAMetaphor is: ?ECA = 1,30; and for the TEXT Meta-phor: ?TEXT = 0.65.
The two sample t-test showedthat the difference was statistically significant(t(74)=1.94; p=0.028).
Therefore we may acceptthe alternative hypothesis that the ECA increasesthe user?s perception of ease-of-use of biometrictechnology.Hypothesis 2:HO: ECA and TEXT Metaphor users rate thepleasantness of the biometric modes equally.H1: ECA Metaphor users rate the pleasantnessof the biometric modes significantly higher thanTEXT Metaphor users.The average pleasantness score for the ECAMetaphor is: ?ECA = 1.98; and for the TEXT Meta-phor: ?TEXT = 1.20; The two sample t-test showedthat the difference was statistically significant(t(77)=2.32; p=0.011).
Therefore we may acceptthe alternative hypothesis that the ECA increasesthe pleasantness of the interaction with the biomet-ric modes.Hypothesis 3:HO: ECA and TEXT Metaphor users rate theprivacy of the system equally.H1: ECA Metaphor users rate the privacy of thesystem significantly higher than TEXT Metaphorusers.The two sample t-test showed no statisticallysignificant difference.
We are therefore unable toreject the null hypothesis.
Instead we propose theopposite alternative hypothesis:Hypothesis 3.1:H1: ECA Metaphor users rate the privacy of thesystem significantly higher than TEXT Metaphorusers.The average score for the perception of privacyfor the ECA Metaphor is ?ECA=-1.20; and for theTEXT Metaphor: ?TEXT=-0.60.
The two sample t-test showed that the difference was statisticallysignificant (t(67)=-3.42 ; p=0.001).
Thus we acceptin this case the alternative hypothesis that users?perception of privacy is lower with the ECA Meta-phor than with the TEXT Metaphor.
This resultmight lend support to Zajonc?s (1965) suggestionthat the presence of a character may enhancearousal or user sensitivity, which might explainwhy the user might feel uneasy letting the agenthave her personal biometric traits.Hypothesis 4:HO: ECA and TEXT Metaphor users rate theirperception of security of the biometric modesequally.H1: ECA Metaphor users?
trust in the securityof the biometric modes is higher than in the caseof the TEXT Metaphor users.We obtained no statistically significant results,so we reverse the alternative hypothesis:Hypothesis 4.1:H1: ECA Metaphor users?
trust in the securityof the biometric modes is lower than in the case ofthe TEXT Metaphor users.Once more, our results were not statistically sig-nificant.
Therefore we cannot infer any relation-ship between the presence of an ECA and users?sense security of a biometric system.Hypothesis 5:HO: Interaction with the ECA Metaphor andwith the TEXT Metaphor is equally efficient.H1: Interaction with the ECA Metaphor is moreefficient that interaction with the TEXT Metaphor.The objective parameter categories comparedwere speed (verification times and reaction times)and efficiency (number of verification failures,false matches and false rejections).
We found nostatistically significant differences between theaverages of any of these variables across the twometaphors.
Therefore we cannot determine anyinfluence of the ECA on the actual efficiency ofthe interaction.37The fact that our system is multibiometric ?inthat it requires simultaneous verification of twofrom among four possible biometric traits?
affectsthe complexity of the verification process (Ubuek,2003).
We now look at the effect our ECA had onthe users?
perception of the cognitive demand andof the need for the extra security our multibiomet-ric system is supposed to provide:Hypothesis 6:HO: ECA and TEXT Metaphor users feelequally about the need to require two biometricmodes for identity verification to ensure security.H1: ECA Metaphor users feel that the require-ment of two biometric modes for verification en-hances security to a greater extent than in the caseof the TEXT Metaphor users.The average score for the perceived need for theenhanced security provided by multibiometrics is,for the ECA Metaphor: ?ECA= 2.8; and for theTEXT Metaphor: ?TEXT=2.1.
The two sample t-testshowed that the difference was statistically signifi-cant (t(12)=2.28 ; p=0.021).
Therefore we mayconfirm the alternative hypothesis.We found no statistically significant differencesbetween the two metaphors regarding the users?perception of the extra cognitive demand of multi-biometrics.Table 1 summarises our results.EFFECTS ON THEUSERECA Metaphor (vs. TEXTMetaphor)Greater ease-of-useGreater pleasantness Subjective impressionsof users Less privacyUser behaviourthroughout the interactionwith the systemWe didn?t reach definitiveconclusionsImprovement in taskexecutionWe didn?t reach definitiveconclusionsImpressions regardingmultibiometrics Enhanced securityTable 1: Comparative results5 Conclusions and future lines of re-searchSome of the most serious obstacles to widespreaduse that biometic technology is facing are relatedto user interaction and acceptance.
We believe theresults presented in this paper open interesting newlines of research.
We found that the presence of anECA (persona effect) makes users experience in-teraction as easier and more pleasant.
Regardingsense of security, our results are in line with otherstudies on ECAs.
The increased pleasantness ofuse of the biometric modes could help overcomeusers?
reluctance to accept biometric systems.
Onthe other hand, the presence of the ECA could havea negative affect by enhancing the users?
percep-tion of encroachment on their privacy.We believe it may be possible to increase thelevel of users?
perceived privacy and user trust byadopting strategies such as allowing the user topersonalise the appearance and even the behaviourof the avatar, as Xiao et al (2007) suggest.
Givingthe ECA greater and more natural communicationskills (e.g., small talk, specific gestures, etc.)
and amore empathic attitude (in line with ideas in thearea of affective computing) could have furtherpositive effects.We may mention the inclusion of ECAs on mul-tibiometric systems as another interesting specificline of research, given the enhancement in the us-ers?
perception of the security of such systemscompared to the same without ECA.6 AcknowledgementsThis study has been possible thanks to the supportgrant received from the TEC2006-13170-C02-02project of the Spanish Plan Nacional de I+D andthe 04-AEC0620-000046/06 (?Recognition of fa-cial and speech patterns for safe multimodal ser-vices in mobile communications?)
project by Tele-f?nica, funded by the Comunidad Autonoma deMadrid.7 ReferencesJonas Beskow, Inger Karlsson, Jo Kewley and Giam-piero Salvi, 2004.
SYFACE - A Talking Head Tele-phone for the Hearing-impaired.
In Computers help-ing people with special needs 1178-1186.Biosec: Biometry and Security, 2004.
Deliverable D6.3:Report on results of first phase usability testing andguidelines for developers.
Available at:http://www.europeanbiometrics.info/images/resources/73_471_file.pdf (Accessed: 2007, March)Scott Brave, Clifford Nass, and Kevin Hutchinson,2005.
Computers that care: investigating the effectsof orientation of emotion exhibited by an embodied38computer agent.
In International Journal of HumanComputer Studies, vol.
62, pp.
161-178.Justine Cassell and Tim Bickmore, 2000.
Externalmanifestations of trustworthiness in the interface.
InCommunications of the ACM, vol.
43, pp.
50-56.CIC, 2007.
Communication Intelligence Corporation,?iSign for Java,?http://www.cic.com/products/isign/#iSignJava(Accessed: 2007, March)Doris M. Dehn and Sussane Van Mulken, 2000.
Theimpact of animated interface agents: a review of em-pirical research.
In International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, vol.
52, pp.
1-22.Haptek, 2007. http://www.haptek.com (Accessed: 2007,March)Kate Hone, Farah Akhtar and Martin Saffu, 2003.
Affec-tive agents to reduce user frustration: the role ofagent embodiment.
In Proceedings of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI2003), Bath, UK, 2003.Kate Hone, 2006.
Empathic agents to reduce user frus-tration: The effects of varying agent characteristics.In  Interacting with Computers, vol.
18, pp.
227-245.Matt Huenerfauth, 2005.
American Sign Language Gen-eration: Multimodal LG with Multiple LinguisticChannels.
In Proceedings of the ACL Student Re-search Workshop (ACL 2005), pp.
37?42.IBG, 2006. International Biometric Group, 2006.
Com-parative Biometric Testing Available at:http://www.biometricgroup.com/reports/public/comparative_biometric_testing.html (Accessed: 2007,March)Iridian Technologies, 2007.
Private ID.http://www.iridiantech.com/products.php?page=1(Accessed: 2007, March)Rinze Leenheer, 2006.
Should ECAs ?dress to im-press?
?, 4th Twente Student Conference on IT, 2006.James C. Lester, Sharolyn A. Converse, Susan E.Kahler, S. Todd Barlow, Brian A.
Stone, and Rav-inder S. Bhogal, 1997.
The persona effect: affectiveimpact of animated pedagogical agents.In Proceed-ings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors incomputing systems, pp.
359-366.Lernout and Hauspie, 2007.http://www.microsoft.com/msagent/downloads/user.asp (Accessed: 2007, March)Junichiro Mori, Helmut Prendinger and Mitsuru Ishi-zuka, 2003.
Evaluation of an Embodied Conversa-tional Agent with Affective Behavior.
In Proceedingsof the AAMAS03 Workshop on Embodied Conver-sational Characters as Individuals , Melbourne, Aus-tralia.Maria Moundridou and Maria Virvou, 2001.
Evaluatingthe Impact of Interface Agents in an Intelligent Tu-toring Systems Authoring Tool.
In Proceedings of thePanhellenic Conference with International participa-tion in Human-Computer interaction.Clifford Nass, Jonathan Steuer, and Ellen R. Tauber,1994.
Computers are social actors.
In Proceedings ofthe SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Com-puting Systems: Celebrating interdependence.
CHI'94.
ACM Press, New York, NY, 72-78.Nuance, 2007.
Nuance Communications Inc.http://www.nuance.com (Accessed: 2007, March)Panasonic, 2007. http://www.panasonic.com (Accessed:2007, March)Precise Biometrics, 2007.http://www.precisebiometrics.com/ (Accessed: 2007,March)Zs?fia Ruttkay, Claire Dormann and Han Noot, 2002.Evaluating ECAs - What and How?.
In Proceedingsof AAMAS 2002 Workshop on Embodied Conversa-tional Agents -- Let's Specify and Evaluate Them!,Bologna, Italy.Angela Sasse, 2004.
Usability and trust in informationsystems.
Cyber Trust & Crime Prevention Project.University College London.Susanne Van Mulken, Elisabeth Andre, and JochenMuller, 1998.
The Persona Effect: How substantial isit?.
In Proceedings of the ACM CHI 1998 Confer-ence , pp.
53-66.
Los Angeles, CAWACOM, 2007. http://www.wacom.com   (Accessed:2007, March)Janet H. Walker, Lee Sproull and R. Subramani, 1994.Using a human face in an interface.
In Proceedingsof the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in com-puting systems: celebrating interdependence, pp.
85-91.James Wayman, Anil K. Jain, Davide Maltoni andMaio Daio, 2005.
Biometric Systems: Technology,Design and Performance Evaluation, Springer.Jun Xiao, John Stasko and Richard Catrambone, 2004.An Empirical Study of the Effect of Agent Compe-tence on User Performance and Perception.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third International Joint Conferenceon Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems-Volume 1, pp.
178-185.Jun Xiao, John Stasko and Richard Catrambone, 2007.The Role of Choice and Customization on Users' In-39teraction with Embodied Conversational Agents: Ef-fects on Perception and Performance, Proceedings ofCHI 2007, San Jose, CA.Robert B. Zajonc, 1965.
Social Facilitation, Science,149, pp.
269-274.40
