Proceedings of the Linguistic Annotation Workshop, pages 125?131,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding Chinese Sense Annotated Corpuswith the Help of Software ToolsYunfang WuSchool of Electronic Engineering andComputer Science, Peking University,Beijing 100871wuyf@pku.edu.cnPeng JinSchool of Electronic Engineering andComputer Science, Peking University,Beijing 100871jandp@pku.edu.cnTao GuoSchool of Electronic Engineering andComputer Science, Peking University,Beijing 100871gtwcq@pku.edu.cnShiwen YuSchool of Electronic Engineering andComputer Science, Peking University,Beijing 100871yusw@pku.edu.cnAbstractThis paper presents the building procedureof a Chinese sense annotated corpus.
A setof software tools is designed to help hu-man annotator to accelerate the annotationspeed and keep the consistency.
The soft-ware tools include 1) a tagger for wordsegmentation and POS tagging, 2) an an-notating interface responsible for the sensedescribing in the lexicon and sense anno-tating in the corpus, 3) a checker for con-sistency keeping, 4) a transformer respon-sible for the transforming from text file toXML format, and 5) a counter for sensefrequency distribution calculating.1 IntroductionThere is a strong need for a large-scale Chinesecorpus annotated with word senses both for wordsense disambiguation (WSD) and linguistic re-search.
Although much research has been carriedout, there is still a long way to go for WSD tech-niques to meet the requirements of practical NLPprograms such as machine translation and infor-mation retrieval.
It was argued that no fundamen-tal progress in WSD could be made until large-scale lexical resources were built (Veronis, 2003).In English a word sense annotated corpus SEM-COR (Semantic Concordances) (Landes et al,1999) has been built, which was later trained andtested by many WSD systems and stimulated largeamounts of WSD work.
In Japanese the HinokiSensebank is constructed (Tanaka et al, 2006).
Inthe field of Chinese corpus construction, plenty ofattention has been paid to POS tagging and syn-tactic structures bracketing, for instance the PennChinese Treebank (Xue et al, 2002) and SinicaCorpus (Huang et al, 1992), but very limitedwork has been done with semantic knowledgeannotation.
Huang et al (2004) introduced theSinica sense-based lexical knowledge base, but asis well known, Chinese pervasive in Taiwan is notthe same as mandarin Chinese.
SENSEVAL-3provides a Chinese word sense annotated corpus,which contains 20 words and 15 sentences permeaning for most words, but obviously the data istoo limited to achieve wide coverage, high accu-racy WSD systems.This paper is devoted to building a large-scaleChinese corpus annotated with word senses.
Asmall part of the Chinese sense annotated corpushas been adopted as one of the SemEval-2007tasks namely ?Multilingual Chinese-English Lexi-cal Sample Task?
This paper concentrates on thedescription of the manually annotating schemes125with the help of software tools.
The software toolswill help human annotators mainly in the two as-pects: 1) Reduce the labor time and accelerate thespeed; 2) Keep the inter-annotator agreement.
Theoverall procedure along with the software tools isillustrated in figure 1..PreprocessingTagger: word segmentation and POS taggingAnnotating interface: word sense annotatingChecker: consistency checkingWord sense annotated corpusPostprocessingTransformer: XML format transforming Counter: sense frequency distribution calculatingThis paper is so organized as follows.
In section2 the preprocessing stage (word segmentation andPOS tagging) is discussed.
Then in section 3 theannotating scheme and the annotating interfaceare demonstrated in detail.
The strategy to keepconsistency is addressed in section 4.
And then insection 5 and 6 the two postprocessing stages arerespectively presented.
Finally in section 7 con-clusions are drawn and future works are presented.2 Word segmentation and POS taggingThe input data for word sense annotating is firstlyword segmented and POS tagged using PekingUniversity?s POS tagger (Yu et al, 2003).
ThePOS tagging precision is up to 97.5%, which laysa sound foundation for researches on sense anno-tating.
This is actually to make use of the full-fledged syntactic processing techniques to dealwith the semantic annotation problems.
Differentsenses of one ambiguous word sometimes behaveso differently that they bear different POS tags.Take ???/hold?
in sentence (1) as an example.The noun of ???/hold?
means ?confidence?, butthe verb means ?grasp?.
(1) a ?
(have)  ?
?/n(confidence)b ?
?/v(grasp)  ?
(ZHU)  ??
(chance)Due to the unique characteristic of Chinese lan-guage that lacks word inflection, the ambiguouswords with different POSs are very common.
Ac-cording to the research of Li (1999), after POStagging the ratio of ambiguous word occurrencesin the text of People?s Daily is reduced from 42%to 26%.
Therefore the emphasis of manually senseannotating in this paper falls on the ambiguouswords with the same part of speech.
This will inturn save 16% of the annotation effort comparedwith the sense annotating before the preprocessingof POS tagging.Fig.1.The overall procedure along with the software tools3 Word sense annotatingThe resulting lexical knowledge base in this pro-ject will contain three major components: 1) acorpus annotated with Chinese word sensesnamely Chinese Senses Pool (CSP); 2) a lexiconcontaining sense distinction and descriptionnamely Chinese Semantic Dictionary (CSD); 3)the linking between the CSD and the ChineseConcept Dictionary (CCD) (Liu et al, 2002).
Thecorpus CSP, the lexicon CSD and CCD constitutea highly relational and tightly integrated system: 1)In CSD the sense distinctions are described rely-ing on the corpus; 2) In CSP the word occurrencesare assigned sense tags according to the sense en-126try specified in CSD; 3) The linking between thesense entry in CSD and CCD synsets are estab-lished.
The dynamic model is shown in figure 2.
Asoftware tool is developed in Java to be used asthe word sense annotating interface (figure 3),which embodies the spirit of the dynamic modelproperly..3.1 Sense describing in the lexicon and senseannotating in the corpusIn this project the lexicon CSD containing sensedescriptions and the corpus CSP annotated withsenses are built interactively, simultaneously anddynamically.
On one hand, the sense distinctions inthe lexicon are made relying heavily on the corpususage.
On the other hand, using the sense informa-tion specified in the lexicon the human annotatorsassign semantic tags to all the instances of theword in a corpus.In the word sense annotating interface, the sen-tences from CSP containing the target ambiguouswords are displayed in the upper section, and theword senses with feature-based description fromCSD are displayed in the bottom section.Through reading the context in the corpus, thehuman annotator decides to add or delete or edit asense entry in the lexicon.
The default value of therange of the context is within a sentence, and thesurrounding characters in the left and right of thetarget word can be specified by the annotator.
An-notators can do four kinds of operations in CSD: 1)Add a sense entry and then fill in all the features; 2)Delete a sense entry along with all its feature de-scription; 3) Edit a sense entry and change any ofthe features; 4) Select a sample sentence form theCSP and add it to the lexicon in the correspondingsense entry.interactive constructionlinkingindirect relationCorpusCSPCCD LexiconCSDFig 2.
The dynamic model between the CSP, CSD and CCDFig3.
The word sense annotating interface127According to the sense specification in CSD thehuman annotator assigns semantic tags to the wordoccurrences in CSP.
The operation is quite easy.When the annotator double clicks the appropriatesense entry in CSD the sense tag is automaticallyadded to the target word.The notable feature in this word sense annotat-ing interface is that it provides flexible searchingschemes.
1) Search sequentially (forward or back-ward) all the instances of an ambiguous words re-gardless of the annotating state; 2) Search sequen-tially (forward or backward) the already annotatedinstances; 3) Search sequentially (forward or back-ward) the yet un-annotated instances and 4) Searchthe instances of a specific ambiguous word (thewindow named Find/Replace in figure3, and againis shown in figure 4 for clearness).The tool of Find/Replace is widely used in thisproject and has proven to be effective in annotatingword senses.
It allows the annotator to search for aspecific word to finish tagging all its occurrencesin the same period of time rather than move se-quentially through the text.
The consistency ismore easily kept when the annotator managesmany different instances of the same word thanhandle a few occurrences of many different wordsin a specific time frame, because the formermethod enables the annotator to establish an inte-grative knowledge system about a specific wordand its sense distinction.
Also the tool ofFind/Replace provides flexible searching schemesfor a specific ambiguous word.
For instance,search in the corpus with different directions (for-ward/backward) and search with different annotat-ing states (annotated/un-annotated/both).
Using thetool the annotator can also replace some specificword occurrences in the corpus (often with specialPOS tags) with a sense tag, thus can finish annotat-ing the corpus quickly and with a batch method.For instance the POS tag of ?vq?
(means verbcomplement) often uniquely corresponds to a spe-cific verb sense such as ??/vq?
?/vq!8?.There is the status bar in the bottom line of theword sense annotating interface, and there clearlyshow the annotating status: the total word occur-rences, the serial number of the current processinginstance and the number of the already annotatedinstances.Fig.4  The tool of Find/Replace3.2 Linking between CSD and CCDThe feature-based description of word meanings inCSD describes mainly the syntagmatic information,such as the subcategory frames of verbs, the se-mantic categories of the head noun of adjectives,but cannot include the paradigmatic relations.WordNet is a popular open resource and has beenwidely experimented in WSD researches.
ChineseConcept Dictionary (CCD) is a WordNet-like Chi-nese lexicon (Liu et al, 2002), which carries themain relations defined in WordNet and can be seenas a bilingual concept lexicon with the parallelChinese-English concepts to be simultaneouslyincluded.
So the linking between the sense entriesin CSD and the synsets in CCD is tried to establishin this project.
After the linking has been estab-lished, the paradigmatic relations (such as hy-pernym / hyponym, meronym / holonym) ex-pressed in CCD can map automatically to the senseentry in CSD.
What?s more, the many existingWSD approaches based on WordNet can be trainedand tested on the Chinese sense tagged corpus.In the right section of the word sense annotatinginterface there displays the synset informationfrom CCD.
When coping with a specific ambigu-ous word (such as ??/open?)
in CSD, the linkingbetween CSD and CCD is automatically estab-lished with the word itself (??/open?)
as the pri-mary key.
And then all the synsets of the word(??/open?)
in CCD, along with the hypernyms ofeach sense (expressed by the first word in a synset),are displayed in the right section.
A synset selec-tion window (namely Set synsets) containing theoffset numbers of the synsets then appears in theright section.
The annotator clicks on the appropri-ate box(es) before the corresponding offset numberand then the offset number is automatically added128to the feature ?CCD?
in the currently selectedsense entry in CSD.The linking is now done manually.
Unfortu-nately some of the ambiguous words existing inCSD are not included in CCD.
This also provides agood way to improve the coverage and quality ofCCD.4 Consistency CheckingConsistency is always an important concern forhand-annotated corpus, and is even critical for thesense tagged corpus due to the subtle meanings tohandle.
A software tool namely Sense ConsistencyChecker is developed in the checking procedure.The checker extracts all the instances of a specificambiguous word into a checking file with the for-mat of the sense concordances (as shown in figure5 ).
The checking file enables the checker to have acloser examination of how the senses are used anddistributed, and to form a general view of how thesense distinctions are made.
The inter-annotator in-agreement thus can be reached quickly and cor-rectly.
As illustrated in figure 5, it is obviously anerror to assign the same semantic tag to ??/drive??/car?
and ??
?/meeting ?/held?.
Simply asit is the checker greatly accelerates the checkingspeed and improve the consistency.Fig.
5.
Some example sentences in the checking file of ?
?/open?Together five researchers took part in the anno-tation, of which three are majored in linguisticsand two are majored in computational linguistics.In this project the annotators are also checkers,who check other annotators?
work.
A text gener-ally is first tagged by one annotator and then veri-fied by two checkers.After the preprocessing of word segmentationand Pos tagging, the word sense annotating andthe consistency checking, the Chinese word senseannotated corpus is constructed.
And then othersoftware tools are needed to do further processingin the sense annotated corpus.5 XML format transformingThe original format of the Chinese sense anno-tated corpus is in text file as shown in figure 6.
Inthe text file the sign following ?/?
denotes thePOS tag, and the number following ?!?
indicatesthe sense ID.
The text file complies with the otherlanguage resources at the Institute of Computa-tional Linguistics, Peking University, which pro-vides a quite easy way to make full use of the ex-isting resources and techniques at ICL/PKU whenconstructing the sense annotated corpus.At the same time in order to exchange andshare information easily with other language re-sources in the world, a software tool namely Text-to-XML Transformer is developed to change thetext to XML format (as shown in figure 7).
In theXML file, the item ?pos?
denotes the POS tag ofthe word, and the item ?senseid?
denotes sense IDof the ambiguous word.Thus there are two kinds of format for the Chi-nese sense annotated corpus, each of which has itsadvantages and can be adopted to meet differentrequirements in different situations.129Fig.
6.
The sense annotated corpus in text file?
?/a  ?/u  ?
?/vn  ?/vt!2  ?
?/b  ?
?/n  ?/p  ?/m  ?/q!1  ?/r2  ?
?/n  ?
?/n  ?
?/vi  ?/u  ?
?/d  ?
?/a?/u  ?
?/n  ?/w  ?
?/vn  ?
?/n  ?
?/d  ?
?/vt  ?/w  ?
?/t  ??
?/n  ?/r  ?/q  ?
?/vn  ?
?/n  ?/d  ?/vt!3  ?/v  9000/m  ?/m  ?/q ?/w<head date="20000201" page="01" articleno="003" passageno="019"><passage>????????????????????????????????????????????????????
9000?
?</passage><postagging><word id="0" pos="a" senseid=""><token>?
?</token></word><word id="1" pos="u" senseid=""><token>?</token></word><word id="2" pos="vn" senseid=""><token>?
?</token></word><word id="3" pos="vt" senseid="2"><token>?</token></word>??
??Fig.
7.
The sense annotated corpus in XML format6 Sense frequency calculatingWord sense frequency distribution in the real textsis a vital kind of information both for the algo-rithms of word sense disambiguation and for theresearch on lexical semantics.
In the postprocess-ing stage a software tool namely Sense FrequencyCounter is developed to make statistics on thesense frequency distribution.
Quite valuable in-formation can be acquired through the counterbased on the sense annotated corpus: 1) Theamount of all the instances of an ambiguous word;2) The number of the already annotated instances;3) The occurrence of each sense of an ambiguousword and 4) The sense frequency.
Table 1 illus-trates the sense frequency distribution of ambigu-ous verb ??/open?
in 10 day?s People?s Daily.7 ConclusionsThis paper describes the overall building proce-dure of a Chinese sense annotated corpus.
Thecorpus is firstly word segmented and POS taggingusing Peking University?s tagger in the preproc-essing stage.
Then the lexicon Chinese SemanticDictionary (CSD) containing sense descriptionsand the corpus Chinese Senses Pool (CSP) anno-tated with senses are built interactively, simulta-neously and dynamically using the word senseannotating interface.
At the same time the linkingbetween the sense entries in CSD and the synsetsin Chinese Concept Dictionary (CCD) are manu-ally established.
And then the Sense ConsistencyChecker is used to keep the inter-annotatoragreement.
Finally two software tools are devel-oped to do further processing based on the senseannotated corpus.
A software tool namely Text-to-XML Transformer is developed to change the textto XML format, and the Sense Frequency Counteris developed to make statistics on the sense fre-quency distribution.
The annotation schemes andall the software tools have been experimented inbuilding the SemEval-2007 task 5 ?MultilingualChinese-English Lexical Sample Task?, and haveproven to be effective.130Table 1 the sense frequency distribution of ambiguous verb ?
?/open?Ambiguous verbs Sense ID Occurrences Frequency(%)?
8 30 32.26?
4 13 13.98?
6 12 12.90?
7 8 8.60?
0 6 6.45?
1 6 6.45?
9 4 4.30?
12 4 4.30?
11 3 3.23?
2 3 3.23?
10 3 3.23?
14 1 1.08?
15 0 0.00?
3 0 0.00?
5 0 0.00?
13 0 0.00Acknowledgments.
This research is supported byHumanity and Social Science Research Project ofChina State Education Ministry (No.
06JC740001)and National Basic Research Program of China(No.
2004CB318102).ReferencesHuang, Ch.
R and Chen, K. J.
1992.
A Chinese Corpusfor Linguistics Research.
In Proceedings of COL-ING-1992.Huang, Ch.
R., Chen, Ch.
L., Weng C. X. and Chen.
K.J.
2004.
The Sinica Sense Management System: De-sign and Implementation.
In Recent advancement inChinese lexical semantics.Landes, S., Leacock, C. and Tengi, R. 1999.
BuildingSemantic Concordances.
In Christiane Fellbaum(Ed.)
WordNet: an Electronic Lexical Database.MIT Press, Cambridge.Li, J.
1999.
The research on Chinese word sense dis-ambiguation.
Doctoral dissertation in computer sci-ence department of Tsinghua University.Liu, Y., Yu, S. W. and Yu, J.S.
2002.
Building a Bilin-gual WordNet-like Lexicon: the New Approach andAlgorithms.
In Proceedings of COLING 2002.Tanaka, T., Bond F. and Fujita, S. 2006.
The HinokiSensebank----A large-scale word sense tagged cor-pus of Japanese.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onFrontiers in Linguistically Annotated Corpora 2006.Veronis, J.
2003.
Sense Tagging: Does It Make Sense?In Wilson et al (Eds).
Corpus Linguistics by theRule: a Festschrift for Geoffrey Leech.Xue, N., Chiou, F. D. and Palmer, M. 2002.
Building aLarge-Scale Annotated Chinese Corpus.
In Proceed-ings of COLING 2002.Yu, S. W., Duan, H. M., Zhu, X. F., Swen, B. andChang, B.
B.
2003.
Specification for Corpus Proc-essing at Peking University: Word Segmentation,POS tagging and Phonetic Notation.
Journal of Chi-nese Language and Computing.131
