Proceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspective on Multiword Expressions, pages 33?40,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsSpanish Adverbial Frozen ExpressionsDolors Catal?Autonomous University of BarcelonaCampus Sabadell, 08202, SpainfLEXSEMdolors.catala@uab.catJorge BaptistaUniv.Algarve, Campus de GambelasP-8005-139 Faro,  PortugalL2F ?
INESC-ID Lisboa, Portugaljbaptis@ualg.ptAbstractThis paper  presents  an electronic  diction-ary  of  Spanish  adverbial  frozen  expres-sions.
It focuses on their formal descriptionin view of natural language processing andpresents  an  experiment  on  the  automaticapplication of this data to real texts usingfinite-state techniques.
The paper makes anassessment  of  the  advantages  andlimitations  of  this  method  for  theidentification  of  these  multiword  units  intexts.1 IntroductionWe have undertaken the construction of an elec-tronic dictionary of compound adverbs, or adver-bial  frozen  expressions  (Catal?
2003).
Thisdictionary  completes  the  DELACs,  i.e.,  thedictionary of compound words of Spanish (Blancoand Catal?
(1998)).These adverbial frozen expressions (a tontas  ya locas = by fits and starts, como anillo al dedo =like a glove; a ojo de buen cubero = at a guess) 1have often been considered as exceptions but theyconstitute an important part of the lexicon.Their formal description highlights many prob-lems for NLP applications.
On the one hand, theyare multiword expressions functioning as meaningunits, so they have to be recognized as a block andare not to be analyzed as a free sequence of simplewords.
On the other hand, they present, sometimes,some lexical variation that can take complex lexi-cal syntactical patterns.1 Approximate translations of examples do not intend tobe fully acceptable,  but to illustrate syntactic phenom-ena.For example, some adverbs show combinatorialconstraints between discontinuous elements:d?a s?, d?a no /  a?o si, a?o no,*d?a si, a?o no?on even days/years?.Others yet present long distance dependencies:[Yo estudio] con todas mis/*sus fuerzas?
(I study) with all my/his strength?
);Lexical variation of the compound elements is of-ten constraint in an unpredictable way:[Juan  aprob?]
por  los/*todos los/*sus/*unospelos?
(John passed the exam) with difficulties?Some allow for a theoretically infinite paradigm asin the expression <Card>  veces  seguidas  ?<num-ber> of times in a row?, where  Card stands for anumeral,  whose  meaning  is  compositional  butwhose form is fixed:[Eso sucedi?]
Card veces seguidas?
(It happened) <number> of times in a row?since  the  adjective  does  not  allow  for  anyvariation:*[Eso sucedi?]
Card veces continuas?
(It happened) <number> of times in a row?In some cases, the adjective can not be reduced:[Juan dijo esto] en voz baja / *en voz?
(John said this) in low voice/in voice?nor can it be placed before the noun:[Juan dijo esto] en voz baja / *en baja voz?
(John said this) in voice low /in low voice?2 The DictionaryThe theoretical  and methodological  frameworkadopted  is  the  lexicon-grammar  based  on  theprinciples of the transformational grammar of Har-ris  (1976,  1997)  developed  by  Maurice  Gross33(1986).
In this perspective, the adverbial frozen ex-pressions  are  formalized  in  the  frame  of  simplesentences  and their  network of paraphrastic  rela-tions.
Adverbs  are  predicates  that  necessarilyapply on other predicates and have a basic influ-ence in their selection.
For example, some adverbsare  only  associated  with  a  limited  number  ofverbs2:[Juan duerme/pernocta/pasa la noche] al raso?
(John sleeps) in the open air?While some others are only used in a negative sen-tence:[Juan no aceptar?]
por nada del mundo?
(John will not accept) by no means?
*[Juan aceptar?]
por nada del mundo?
(John will accept) by no means?Others impose a specific tense:[Juan  llegar?]
en  breve '(John  will comeshortly?
*[John  lleg?]
en  breve ?
(John  has  come)shortly?2.1 ClassificationWe apply the notion of adverbs to syntacticallydifferent structures of traditional terminology suchas  underived  (primary)  adverbs  (bien,  ?well?)
orderived  forms  (profundamente ?deeply?
),circumstantial  complements  (al  amanecer ?atdawn?
),  and circumstantial  clauses  (hasta  que lamuerte nos separe ?until death do us part?
).We considered the sequence Prep Det C Modif 3as the basic structure that formally define and clas-sify  compound  adverbs,  adopting  the  concept  ofgeneralized adverb proposed by M. Gross (1986)for French adverbs.Based on this, we defined 15 formal classes forSpanish  compound  adverbs.
Table  1  (below)shows the current state of the dictionary, the inter-nal structure of each class, an illustrative exampleand the number of compound adverbs collected sofar.Further  than  this  classification  based  on  theirinternal  structure,  we  have  proposed  differenttypes  of  semantic-functional  groups  presented  interms  of  Finite  State  Transducers  (FSTs),  as  in2 In the examples, (argument) simple sentences are givenin brackets.3 Prep =  preposition;  Det =  determiner;  C =  lexicalconstant, usually a noun;  Modif = modifier, such as anadjective (Adj) or a prepositional phrase.Fig.1.
In this graph, all adverbial expressions havethe  same  general  meaning  (?quickly?).
Similargraphs can be used, for example, to compare thedistribution  of  semantically  ?equivalent?expressions and to structure the co-occurrence ofthose adverbs with their argument predicates.Class Structure Example SizePC Prep C sin ambajes 869PDETC Prep Det C al contado 585PAC Prep Adj C sin previo aviso 157PCA Prep C Adj a brazo partido 291PCDC Prep C de C  a cuerpo de rey 168PCPC Prep C Prep C de cabo a rabo 149PCONJ Prep C Conj C en cuerpo y alma 131PCDN Prep C de N a condici?n de 233PCPN Prep C Prep N de espaldas a 51PV Prep V W sin querer 127PF frozen sentence que yo sepa 169PECO (como) Adj que C sordo como una tapia 797PVCO (V) como C (beber) como una esponja 532PPCO (V) como Prep C (desaparecer) comopor ensalmo46PJC Conj C y no se hable m?s 91TOTAL 4396Table 1.
Classification of Spanish compound adverbs.Fig.1 Finite-State graph (simplified) for semanticclustering of adverbs2.2 Microstructure  of DictionaryThe description takes the shape of binary matrices(see Table 2, for an example), in which each linecorresponds  to  a  lexical  entry,  and  the  columnsrepresent different information.
The set of matricesconstitute the lexicon-grammar of adverbial frozenexpressions.
Next,  we present  a brief  descriptionof the microstructure of the dictionary.34N0 VPrepDetCPreModModPr?p D?t CPr?p D?t Adj CConjDiaSys English equivalenthum Vact - - acto - seguido - - + - immediately afterwardshum llegar a la hora - horada + - - familiar on the nosehum Vact por - voluntad - propia - + - - with one?s own willhum comprar a el por - mayor - - - commerce wholesalehum dormir con los ojos medio abiertos - - - - with one?s eyes half openTable 2.
Class PCA (extract)The first column concerns the syntactic-seman-tic  nature  of  the  subject.
We  adopted  G.  Gross(1995)  and Le  Pesant and Mathieu-Colas  (1989)basic  typology,  distinguishing  the  followingsemantic  classes:  human,  animal,  vegetal,  con-crete, and abstract.The  second  column  refers  to  the  verb  mostcommonly used with the adverb, for example:[salir] a cuerpo gentil?
(to go out) without cloak?
;[cerrar Nconc] a cal y canto?
(to close something) under lock and key?.The following columns contain the elements ofthe structure: Prep, Det, C, and Modif, e.g.
:[Esta  gente  lleg?
en este  pa?s]  con las  manosvac?as?These  people  arrived  in  this  country  withempty hands?Naturally,  in Spanish the modifier  can be placedbefore C:[Se peleaban] a la menor ocasi?n?
(they  were  fighting  each  others)  at  the  leastoccasion/opportunity?.The next columns correspond to their syntactic(distributional  and  transformational)  properties:?+?
indicates  that  the  expression  admits  thisproperty,  and  ?-  ?
that  it  does  not.
Relevantproperties  depend on the class:  some have to dowith permutation of elements of the compound ortheir reduction to zero (zeroing); see ?2.3, below.Diasystem  information  (Hausmann  1989)  isprovided  in  next  field  (DiaSys)  such  as  thesecategories  (marked  in  bold,  in  the  examplesbelow):- diatopy:[Juan trabaja] al cohete (Uruguay/Argentina)?
(John works) in vain?
;- diachrony :[Juan  convoca  a  los  estudiantes]  a  voz  deapellido (out of use)?
(John summons the students) by their familyname?
;- diafrequency :[Juan se sirvi?]
a barba regada (unusual)?
(John served himself) abundantly?- diastratic:[Juan  recita] de  carretilla (familiar/colloquial)?
(John recites) by heart?
;- diatechnical :[El torero clav?
la  banderilla] de sobaquillo(bullfighting) ?
(the  bull  fighter  has  pinchedthe bull) on its side;- diaintegrative :[Juan vino] motu propio (latinism)?
(John came) voluntarily?.Finally,  we  have  included  French  translationequivalents.
These  equivalence  relations  are  alsocurrently being extended to other languages, suchas Portuguese (Palma, in prep.
).2.3 Syntactic propertiesWe will  only  consider  here  the  most  prominentproperties, considering all classes of adverbs understudy.One of the properties indicates the possibility totransform  the  initial  structure  in  to  a  moreanalytical phrase like de (modo + manera) C-a ?ina  C-a way/manner?,  where  C-a is  an  adjective,morphologically  related  to  the  constant  (frozenelement)  C;  naturally  the  meaning  of  the  twostructures is the same:[La candidatura se aprob?]
por unanimidad=  [La  candidatura  se  aprob?]
de  maneraun?nime35?
(His application was approved) by unanimity/inan unanimous way?
[Juan lo ha dicho] con todos los respetos= [Juan lo ha dicho] de manera respetuosa?
(John  has  said  so)  with  all  due  respect/  in  arespectful manner?.Another, similar, property shows the possibilityto transform the initial structure in an adverb basedon the same type of  C-a adjective and the suffix-mente.
This  property  concerns  classes  PC  andPDETC :[La candidatura se aprob?]
por unanimidad= [La candidatura se aprob?]
un?nimemente?
(His application was approved) unanimously?
[Juan lo ha dicho] con todos los respetos= [Juan lo ha dicho] respetuosamente?
(John has said so) respectfully?.Property  Conj concerns  classes  PC,  PDETC,PAC and PCA.
It highlights the eventual anaphoriceffect  of  the  adverb.
We  consider  it  as  aconjunction-adverb, since in sentences like:[Juan estudia] en consecuencia?
(John studies) in consequence?
[Juan se march?]
por lo tanto?
(John went away) for that much?we need a (trans-)phrastic context such as :[Juan  quiere  aprobar], en  consecuencia,[estudia].?
(John  wants  to  succeed  in  school),  inconsequence (he studies)?
[Ana se enfad?
con Juan], por lo tanto,  [?ste semarch?]?
(Ana get  bored with  John),  for  that  much (hewent away)?The  next  property  concerns  classes  PCA andPAC.
It  describes  the  possible  omission  of  themodifier:[Los ni?os andan] en fila india?
(The kids walk) in Indian line?= [los ni?os andan] en fila?
(The kids walk) in line?Other  property indicates  the  possibility ofmoving modifier from its basic position to the leftof C; it only concerns class PCA:[Juan encontr?
a Ana] en hora buena= [Juan encontr?
a Ana] en buena hora?
(John met Ana) in good time/in time?We have  also  noted  the  possibility  of  zeroingthe second element of the compound, i.e., the freeor frozen prepositional phrase.
It concerns classesPCDC, PCPC, PCONJ, PCPN, and PCDN:[Juan estudia] con la mejor voluntad del mundo= [Juan estudia] con la mejor voluntad?
(John studies) with the best will (of the world)?
[Juan vive] al margen de la sociedad= [Juan vive] al margen?
(John lives) at the margin (of society)?
[Juan vive] de espaldas a la calle= [Juan vive] de espaldas?
(John lives) with his back (turned to the street)?Certain  permutations have been noted,  but  notdealt with in a transformational way:[Juan se enamor?
de Ana] por decirlo as?= [Juan se enamor?
de Ana] por as?
decirlo?
(John fall in love with Ana) as it were?Finally,  we  consider  the  possibility  ofsubstitution  of  the  second  element  by  asubordinate  clause  (finite  or  infinitive);  thisproperty concerns PCDN and PCPN:[Le consultar?]
en caso de duda= [Le consultar?]
en caso de que haya duda?
(He will consult him) in case of doubt/in casethere is any doubt?
[Juan se march?]
por miedo al fuego= [Juan se march?]
por miedo a que haya fuego?
(He went away) for fear of fire/there being fire?
[Juan se sujet?]
por miedo a una ca?da?
(John hold tight) by fear of a fall?= [Juan se sujet?]
por miedo a caer?
(John hold tight) by fear of to fall?A  strictly  statistically,  corpus-based  approachthat only contemplates strings of words in view toproduce  lexicon  entries  (Manning  and  Sch?tze2003) cannot but fail to put in relation such formalvariants  of  equivalent  expressions.
On  the  otherhand,  many  formal  variations  are  very  muchdependent on the particular  lexical  combinations,and  cannot  be  generalized,  hence  the  need  todescribe their syntactic properties systematically.While  very  time-consuming,  our  methodprovides a fine-grained linguistic description, andis directly exploitable by finite-state methods.With  the  aim  of  retrieving  the  adverbialexpressions  from  texts  using  the  informationencoded in the lexicon matrices, it should be noted36that most but not all  properties referred to abovecan  be  directly  formalized  using  the  finite-statemethods we are currently using.
In the followinglines, we present this methodology.3 FormalizationIn order to apply to texts the set of matrices thatconstitute  the  Lexicon-Grammar  and  thus  toidentify  and  tag  compound  adverbs,  we  havefollowed the  methodology proposed  by Senellart(1998)  and  Silberztein  (2000),  and  adapted  byPaumier (2003, 2004) for the UNITEX system 4.
Thismethod consists  of intersecting linguistic data onmatrices  with  a  finite-state  graph  (called  areference graph) in order to generate automaticallya finite-state transducer (FST) that can be appliedto a corpus5.Fig.2 Reference graph (simplified) for class PCAFig.2 shows a (simplified)  reference graph forclass  PCA.
In the  graph,  variable  @X stands  forcolumn X in the matrix.
For each line in the matrixthe  system builds  a sub-graph by replacing  eachvariable for the content of the corresponding col-umns  in  the  matrix.
If  that  columns  is  a  binaryproperty, the corresponding variable in the graphfunctions as a switch, allowing for the rest of thatgraph?s path to be build in case of a ?+?
or, else,collapsing the graph at that point, if a ?-?
is foundat  that  property.
It  is  also  possible  to  deny  aproperty  (!
@X),  which  has  the  opposite  effect.Another utility of the system is the inclusion of avariable  @% that outputs the number of each entryline in the matrix, thus enabling the user to easilyput  in  correspondence  a  given  result  to  thecorresponding lexical entry.
The set of sub-graphs(one per each entry in the matrix) is automaticallygathered  in  a  finite-state  transducer  that  can  bedirectly applied to texts.In Fig.
2, class PCA reference graph includes:two  delimiters  of  the  compound  expression,<ADV_> and  <_ADV> ; the  @% variable; the top-4 www.univ-mlv.fr/~unitex.5 See Paumier (2004), for further details.most  path describe  the full  expression,  while  thesecond and third paths, below, depend on proper-ties described by variables @H and @I; these corre-spond  to  the  permutation  of  the  adjective  [Ap]and its reduction to zero [Az], respectively.Similar graphs have been built to other classes6.The  set  of  classes  thus  formalized  constitute  anelectronic dictionary of 2,930 entries (67% of allcompound entries collected so far).4 An experiment on textsThe  aim  of  this  experiment  is  to  assess  theadvantages  and  limitations  of  the  methodologydescribed in ?3 in the identification of multiwordunits, in this case, compound adverbs, in real textsin Spanish.The FSTs were applied to a fragment of a cor-pus of journalistic text taken from the newspaperEl Mundo,  of  about  2  Mb and  171.5  K (~24  Kdifferent)  words.
The  system  retrieved  2,276matches, corresponding to 461 different entries.Table 3 shows the breakdown of these matchesper  class  and  its  percentage,  followed  by  thenumber of different entries (types) matched by thesystem and the corresponding percentage of eachclass entries.classclasssize matches%matchesentries%entriesPC 869 849 0.37 215 0,47PCDN 233 489 0.22 12 0,03PDETC 585 406 0.18 119 0,26PCPN 51 238 0.10 23 0,05PCA 291 134 0.06 19 0,04PF 169 42 0.02 7 0,02PAC 157 38 0.02 23 0,05PCONJ 131 22 0.01 9 0,02PCPC 149 21 0.01 12 0,03PCDC 168 17 0.01 12 0,03PV 127 16 0.01 10 0,022,930 2,272 461Table 3.
Breakdown of matches per class.Classes  PC,  PCDN,  PDETC,  PCPN and  PCAare  the  only  classes  with  over  100  matches;together  they  constitute  93% of  the  matches,  allother classes have residual expression.6 In this paper, however, we did not deal with classes ofcomparative adverbs (PECO, PVCO and PPCO) or classPJC,  which pose particular  problems to  their  recogni-tion.37On  the  other  hand,  classes  PC  and  PDETCpresent  the  larger  number  of  dictionary  entriesmatched.
Notice that, despite the number of entriesin the matrices, only 461 entries (16%) were foundin the corpus.Class  PC  alone  represents  47%  of  the  totalentries  matched  by  the  system  (215/461),immediately followed by class PDETC, with 26%of  matched  entries  (119/461).
Matches  for  thesetwo classes together constitute 55% of the total ofstrings  matched  by  the  system  (1,255/2,272).These two figures make PC and PDETC the mostprominent classes for this experiment, in view ofthe  assessment  of  the  finite-state  methods  hereused  to  identify  compound  adverbs  in  texts.
Forlack of space, analysis of results will thus focus onthese  classes  and  only  major  phenomena,  i.e.,those situations with major impact on results, willbe taken in consideration here.5 Results and discussionWe went  through  the  concordances  manually,and confirmed a precision of 77.4% (974/1,255) 7.We discuss these results below.The  major  reason  for  incorrect  matching  hasbeen  found  to  correspond  to  cases  where  thematched  sequence  is  not  the  target  compoundadverb but part of a longer, free word sequence, orpart  of  a  compound  word;  in  the  followingexample, the adverb de accidente ?accidentally?
isan  ambiguous  string  since  it  overlaps  with  thecompound  noun  seguros  de  accidente ?accidentinsurances?Antes de iniciar un rodaje, se prev?
cualquier eventualidad.Se contratan seguros de accidente, enfermedad y muerte paralas personas clave del proyecto [PC_0010]while in the next  example, the string  de derecho?by  law/right?
overlaps  a  (free)  prepositionalphrase which includes a compound noun  derechode veto ?right of veto?
:Yo creo  que  no  se puede  pretender  ejercer una  especie  dederecho de veto, porque esto querr?a decir que el Gobiernoes reh?n [PC_0243]7 Since  we started  with a  previously,  manually  build,electronic  dictionary,  we can  not  compute  recall.
Wedefine  precision as  the  number of  correct  matches ontotal matches.In some few cases, incorrect matches were theresult of an inadequate treatment of contractions ofprepositions  and  determiners.
In  classes  PCDN,PCPN,  the  second  preposition  often  appearscontracted with the determiner of the free NP.
Inthe next example, contraction of a + el = al has notbeen correctly described:coches ser?n introducidos en el mercado nip?n en el mes deoctubre,  con  ocasi?n  del  Sal?n  de  Tokio.
Con respecto alTigra,  que se produce en exclusiva para todo el mundo enFiguer [PC_0686]This problem is to be fixed on a next version of thereference FSTs.In  some  cases,  especially  when  the  adverb  ismarked  as  a  conjunction-adverb  (Conj),  it  oftenappears  between  comas  or  at  the  beginning  ofsentences, followed by coma.se  hab?a  montado  su  particular  Guerra  de  los  Mundos  detema ferroviario.
Tambi?n hay quien piensa, por cierto, que aeste Gobierno se lo van a cargar no sus errores, sino las cos[PC_0145]privatizar  el  99,9% de las  empresas y entes  p?blicos  de laComunidad  y ya est?
trabajando en ello.
Por cierto, le haarrebatado el control del Canal de Isabel II a Pedroche y lo[PC_0145]We  have  annotated  these  cases  so  that  thisinformation can be added to the matrices and usedin disambiguation tasks.Finally,  many  temporal  adverbs  have  onlypartially been identified.puede seguir as?
?- exigi?
al Gobierno de Gonz?lez que fije uncalendario  electoral  antes  del  17  de este  mes.
Tras  de  locual,  el  a?n  secretario  general  de  CDC  sostuvo  que,  si[PDETC_0076]zo de Erez, consigui?
dos objetivos.
En primer lugar, Israel secomprometi?
a iniciar,  a finales de  este mes, la evacuaci?ngradual  de  tres  ciudades  palestinas:  Jenin,  Kalkilia[PDETC_0076]This  occurs  because  matrices  only  includedsimple  word combinations.
As others have notedpreviously  (Baptista  and  Catal?
2002;  Baptista2003a,b),  time-related  adverbs  may be  describedby FST methods as those used here.
Those localgrammars could easily be integrated in the system.386 ConclusionThe taxonomic approach adopted here, the system-atic  survey  of  the  lexicon  and  its  formalrepresentation,  resulted  in  a  complex  linguisticdatabase of Spanish compound adverbs.
This mayhave many applications, not strictly in Linguistics,but also in Didactics and in Lexicography.It can further be used in several applications onnatural  language  processing.
The  relatively  highprecision (77,4%) of the finite state methods usedin  this  paper  are  very encouraging,  and  in  somecases,  discussed  above,  they  can  and  will  beimproved in a future version both of the referencegraphs and of the lexicon-grammar matrices.However,  the  major  difficulty  to  a  betteridentification of compound adverbs in texts seemsto  reside  in  the  fact  that  no  syntactic  analysis(parsing)  has  been  performed  on  the  text.Therefore,  there  is  no  possibility  of  usinginformation  regarding  (sub-)phrases  and  otherconstituents of the compounds in order to precludeincorrect matching.Another aspect that hinders better results has todo  with  the  formal  variation  of  compoundadverbial  expressions.
Adverbs  present  moreproblems for their recognition as the limit betweenfree sequence and fixed sequence is more difficultto  establish  than  in  others  categories  ofcompounds.
The building of electronic dictionariesmay benefit from a (more) corpus-based approach,so as to retrieve variants of a given lexical entry,but  a  careful  and  time-consuming  verification  isneeded  in  order  to  group  variants  as  differentexpressions of the same meaning unit.Finally,  the  relatively  small  portion  of  thedictionary matched on the corpus imposes that  itshould be tested on texts of a more diverse natureand of a larger size, thus probably yielding a largerperspective  of  the  use  of  these  idiomaticexpressions.
Still, it is now possible to consider thestudy of the distribution of these adverbs, trying tospecify  the  type  of  predicates  (verbs,  nouns,adjectives, mainly) on which they operate.AcknowledgementThis research was supported by the Spanish Ministeriode Ciencia y Tecnologia in the framework of the projectgrant  HP-2004-0098,  and  Conselho  de  Reitores  dasUniversidades Portuguesas, project grant E-111/-05.ReferencesJorge  Baptista  2003a.
Some  Families  of  CompoundTemporal  Adverbs  in  Portuguese.
Proceedings  ofWorkshop  on Finite-State  Methods  for  NaturalLanguage Processing: 97-104, ACL, Hungary.Jorge Baptista 2003b.
Evaluation of Finite-State LexicalTransducers  of  Temporal  Adverbs  for  LexicalAnalysis  of  Portuguese  Texts.
ComputationalProcessing of the Portuguese Language.
Proceedingsof  PROPOR?2003.
Lecture  Notes  in  ComputerScience/Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2721:235-242, Springer, Berlin.Jorge  Baptista  and  Dolors  Catal?
2002.
CompoundTemporal  Adverbs  in  Portuguese  and  in  Spanish.Advances in Natural Language Processing,  LectureNotes  in  Computer  Science/Lecture  Notes  inArtificial  Intelligence  2389:  133-136,  Springer,Berlin.Jorge  Baptista  and  Dolors  Catal?
2006.
Les adverbescompos?s dans le domaine du travail.
Mots, Termes,et Contextes:  249-263, AUF/LTT and ?d.
ArchivesContemporaines, Paris.Xavier  Blanco  and  Dolors  Catal?
1998.
Quelquesremarques  sur  un  dictionnaire  ?lectroniqued?adverbes  compos?s  en  espagnol.
LinguisticaeInvestigationes  Supplementa 11  (2):  213-232,  JohnBenjamins Pub.
Co., Amsterdam/Philadelphia.Gaston Gross  1995.  ?
propos de  la  notion d?humain.Lexiques  Grammaires  Compar?s  en  Fran?ais.inguisticae  Investigationes  Supplementa 17:  71-80,John Benjamins Pub.
Co., Amsterdam/Philadelphia.Maurice  Gross  1986.
Grammaire  transformationnelledu fran?ais: syntaxe de l?adverbe, ASSTRIL, Paris.Zellig  S.  Harris  1976  Notes  du  cours  de  syntaxe,  LeSeuil, Paris.Zellig  S.  Harris.
A  Theory  of  Language  andInformation.
A  Mathematical  Approach,  ClarendonPress, Oxford.Franz  J.  Haussmann  1989.
Die  Markierung  inallgemeinen  einsprachigen  W?rterbuch:  eine?bersicht,  W?rterb?cher,  Dictionaries,Dictionnaires, vol 1: 651, Berlin/ New York, Walterde Gruyter.Denis  Le  Pesant  and  Michel  Mathieu-Colas.
1998.Introduction  aux  classes  d'objets   Langages 131:6-33, Larousse, Paris.Ch.
Manning  and  H.  Sch?tze  2003.
Foundations  ofStatistical Natural Language Processing, MIT Press,London/Cambridge, MA39Cristina  Palma  (in  preparation).
Estudo  ContrastivoPortugu?s-Espanhol de Adv?rbios Compostos, Univ.Algarve, Faro.S?bastien Paumier 2004.
Unitex - manuel d'utilisation,Univ.
Marne-la-Vall?e, Paris.Jean  Senellart  1998.
Reconnaissance  automatique  desentr?es du lexique-grammaire des phrases fig?es.
LeLexique-Grammaire.
Travaux  de  Linguistique 37:109-125, Duculot, Bruxelles.Max  Silberztein  2000.
Intex (Manual),  ASSTRIL/LADL,Paris.40
