Proceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 9?16,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsLandmark Classification for Route DirectionsAidan Furlan?, Timothy Baldwin?
and Alex Klippel??
CSSEUniversity of MelbourneVIC 3010, Australia{afurlan,tim}@csse.unimelb.edu.au?
Department of GeographyPenn State UniversityUniversity Park, PA 16802, USAklippel@psu.eduAbstractIn order for automated navigation systemsto operate effectively, the route instructionsthey produce must be clear, concise and eas-ily understood by users.
In order to incorpo-rate a landmark within a coherent sentence,it is necessary to first understand how thatlandmark is conceptualised by travellers ?whether it is perceived as point-like, line-like or area-like.
This paper investigatesthe viability of automatically classifying theconceptualisation of landmarks relative to agiven city context.
We use web data to learnthe default conceptualisation of those land-marks, crucially analysing preposition andverb collocations in the classification.1 IntroductionAt present, many navigation systems produce badly-worded and difficult to follow route instructions,which do not closely correspond with the waypeople give one another directions (Dale et al,2005).
Typically, automated navigation systemsgive turning instructions with street names as refer-ence points, eg turn right at Smith St. By contrast,human-generated route instructions tend to use land-marks in preference to street names as navigationalreference points (Michon and Denis, 2001).According to Allen (1997), landmarks are typi-cally used in route directions in one of two ways?as descriptives, providing a static picture of a spa-tial scene so that the traveller can verify his or herlocation along a route, eg the City Library is onyour left, or to specify or clarify a point on a routeat which the traveller must make a choice betweenmultiple pathways, termed choice points or decisionpoints.
Route instructions which identify decisionpoints with respect to landmarks have been found tobe significantly easier to follow than standard street-based or turn-based route instructions (Michon andDenis, 2001).This paper goes beyond classical approaches tolandmarks that focus on salient point-like objects.Instead, we aim to find appropriate ways of classify-ing landmarks automatically, based on the way thoselandmarks are used in spatial sentences on the web:as point-like, linear-like, and area-like objects thatstructure movement pattern in urban spaces.
In par-ticular, we analyse how different prepositions andverbs with pre-classified semantics co-occur withmentions of the landmarks.
A preposition such asthrough can be used with reference to a landmarkwe are conceptualising as an area, but not one we areconceptualising as a point.
Landau and Jackendoff(1993) presented an analysis of the spatial proper-ties of commonly used English spatial prepositions,such as at, in and to.
This classification used as thebasis of a list of prepositions for the present study,grouped according to whether the preposition indi-cates a point-like, line-like or area-like landmark.
Inaddition, a short list of verbs was compiled basedon the verb classes of Levin (1993) and similarly di-vided into the three conceptual classes.Each of the verbs and prepositions was combinedin turn with a list of landmarks in Melbourne, Aus-tralia, to produce a series of spatial phrases suchas at Flinders St Station.
These phrases were then9sent to the Google search engine, which determinedthe approximate number of documents on the webcontaining that exact phrase.
The document countswere then summed over the conceptual categoriesthe prepositions and verbs appeared in ?
point, lineand area.
The result of this was a probabilistic cat-egorisation of each landmark, according to its usagein spatial contexts on the web.Evaluation of the baseline was performed basedon annotators?
independent judgements of the con-ceptual class of each of the landmarks, gatheredfrom a web-based annotation interface.
It was foundthat the baseline classification agreed with the goldstandard classification 63.8% of the time.
A slightimprovement on the baseline was achieved via a su-pervised neural network classifier, which took theweb counts as inputs.
This classifier agreed withthe gold standard 68.5% of the time.
As a resultof this analysis, a set of systematically ambiguouslandmarks was identified, with implications for fu-ture landmark classification models.In the remainder of this paper, we describe back-ground research (Section 2) and then outline our re-search methodology (Section 3).
We then presentthe results of a series of landmark classificationexperiments (Section 4), and finally discuss thebroader implications of the experiments (Section 5).2 Background2.1 Spatial CognitionRoute directions should be designed in such a way asto be quickly and easily comprehended by the trav-eller (Lovelace et al, 1999).
Optimally, route di-rections should exhibit cognitive adequacy ?
char-acterising an external representation of a route (aswith a map or route directions) in a way supportiveof human spatial cognitive processes and knowledgerepresentation (Klippel, 2003).
For this reason, theimprovement of route directions requires an investi-gation into human spatial cognition.Route instructions which reference landmarks areable to achieve a number of worthwhile goals: theyhave the effect of increasing the spatial awarenessof the recipient by informing them about their sur-roundings; landmark-referencing route instructionscan decrease the cognitive load on the recipient; andit is more natural-sounding to receive route instruc-tions in terms of landmarks.2.2 Landmark ConceptualisationIn order to provide appropriate landmark-referencedroute instructions, it is necessary to understand howlandmarks can be used in spatial sentences to locatea trajector.
On a geometric level, all landmarks canbe considered areas when projected onto a top-downmap.
However, on a conceptual level, landmarks canbe used in a point-like, line-like or area-like manner,depending on their spatial relationship with a route(Hansen et al, 2006).One possible approach to determining a land-mark?s conceptual class is to make use of the land-mark?s geometric context, including its size relativeto the route and the number of decision points withwhich it coincides.
However, this approach mayhave little ecological validity, as people may not infact conceptualise landmarks as point, line or areabased purely on geometry, but also based on prag-matic considerations.
For instance, it may be thecase that people don?t tend to conceptualise FlindersSt Station as an area, even though it satisfies the ge-ometric criteria.2.3 Past Research on Landmark InterpretationThe only research we are aware of which has ad-dressed this same topic of landmark interpretationis that of Tezuka and Tanaka (2005).
In an investi-gation of the spatial use of landmarks in sentences,Tezuka and Tanaka (2005) modified existing webmining methods to include spatial context in orderto obtain landmark information.It is natural to question the appropriateness of webdata for research purposes, because web data is in-evitably noisy and search engines themselves can in-troduce certain idiosyncracies which can distort re-sults (Kilgarriff and Grefenstette, 2003).
However,the vast amount of data available can neverthelessgive better results than more theoretically motivatedtechniques (Lapata and Keller, 2004).
And impor-tantly, the data that can be gleaned from the webdoes not mirror the view of a single person or a se-lect group, but of the entire global community (or atleast the best available representation of it).103 MethodologyThe prepositions and verbs which accompany alandmark in spatial sentences capture that land-mark?s implicit conceptualisation.
We use this im-plicit conceptualisation, as represented on the web,to develop two automated classification schemes: asimple voting classifier and a neural network clas-sifier.
We compile a set of gold standard classifi-cations in order to evaluate the performance of theclassifiers.3.1 LandmarksA list of 58 landmarks was generated for Mel-bourne, Australia.
The landmarks were chosen to beuniquely identifiable and recognisable by most in-habitants of Melbourne.3.2 Gold StandardWe had annotators use a web interface to uniquelyclassify each landmark as either point-, line- or area-like.
Each landmark?s gold standard category wastaken to be the category with the greatest numberof annotator votes.
Where the annotations weresplit equally between classes, the maximal geomet-ric class was chosen, which is to say, line was cho-sen in preference to point, and area was chosen inpreference to line.
The rationale for this is that, forexample, a point-like representation is always recov-erable from a landmark nominally classified as anarea, but not the other way around.
Hence the classi-fication which maintains both pieces of information,that this landmark may be treated as an area or apoint, was assigned preferentially to the alternative,that this landmark may only be treated as a point.Since landmark conceptualisations can depend onthe mode of transport involved, annotators were in-structed to consider themselves a cyclist who never-theless behaves like a car by always staying on thestreet network.
The intention was to elicit conceptu-alisations based on a modality which is intermediatebetween a car and a pedestrian.
Annotators werealso asked to indicate their confidence in each anno-tation.3.3 Web MiningWe identified a set of prepositions and verbs as in-dicating a point-like, line-like or area-like repre-sentation.
The number of documents on the webwhich were found to contain a particular landmarkin point-like, line-like or area-like spatial sentencesprovided the raw data for our automated classifi-cation schemes.
The web data thus obtained canbe considered an implicit representation of a gen-eralised cognitive model of the landmarks.PrepositionsLandau and Jackendoff (1993) investigated theuse of English spatial prepositions and the require-ments they place on the geometric properties of ref-erence objects.
This analysis was projected onto theconceptual classes of point, line and area, to forma list of conceptually grouped spatial prepositions.Hence prepositions which require the reference ob-ject to be (or contain) a bounded enclosure, suchas inside, were classified as denoting an area-likelandmark; prepositions which require the referenceto have an elongated principal axis, such as along,were classified as denoting a line-like landmark; andprepositions which place no geometric constraintson the reference object, such as at, were classifiedas denoting a point-like landmark.The prepositions used were restricted to thosewhich pertain to a horizontal planar geometry com-patible with route directions; for example, preposi-tions which make use of a reference object?s ver-tical axis such as on top of and under were ig-nored, as were prepositions denoting contact suchas against.
The preposition out was also excludedfrom the study as it is typically used in non-spatialcontexts, and in spatial contexts the reference objectis usually covert (eg he took his wallet out) (Tylerand Evans, 2003).
Conversely, out of is frequentlyspatial and the reference object is overt, so this com-pound preposition was retained.
The complete listof prepositions used in the study is given in Table 1.VerbsIn addition to the list of prepositions, a list ofverbs was created based on the verb classes of Levin(1993), restricted to verbs of inherently directed mo-tion which can be used in a phrase immediately pre-ceding a landmark, such as the verb pass in thephrase pass the MCG; in other words, the chosenverbs can be used in a way which parallels the useof spatial prepositions, as opposed to verbs such as11Point-like Line-like Area-likeacross from along aroundat alongside acrossafter inaway from inside (of)before intobehind out ofbeside outside (of)in front of throughnear withinnext to withoutoppositepasttoto the left ofto the right ofto the side oftowardTable 1: Prepositions used in this research (based onLandau and Jackendoff (1993))Point-like Line-like Area-likehit follow crosspass enterreach leaveTable 2: Verbs used in this researchproceed, which specify a motion but require a prepo-sition for clarification.
This second type of verb is ofno interest to the study as they tell us nothing aboutthe conceptualisation of landmarks.As with the prepositions, the verbs were groupedinto the conceptual classes of point, line and area ac-cording to the requirements they place on referenceobjects, including enter for an area-like object, fol-low for a line-like object and pass for a point-likeobject.
The complete list of verbs used in the studyis given in Table 2.Document CountsEach of the prepositions and verbs was com-bined with each of the landmarks to create a cross-product of linguistic chunks, such as at Queen Victo-ria Market, through Queen Victoria Market, and soon.
Alternative names and common misspellings ofthe landmark names were taken into account, suchas Flinders St Station, Flinders Street Station andFlinder?s Street Station.
Additionally, three con-jugations of each verb were used?present tensenon-3rd person singular (eg reach), present tense3rd person singular (eg reaches), and past tense (egreached).Each linguistic chunk was sent in turn to theGoogle search engine, which determined the ap-proximate number of documents on the web contain-ing that exact phrase.
The counts were then summedover the conceptual categories in which each prepo-sition and verb appeared.
The result of this wasa probabilistic categorisation of each landmark aspoint, line or area, according to its usage in spatialsentences on the web.It is difficult to determine the context of sentencesusing a search engine.
It is uncertain whether thedocuments found by Google use the searched-forlinguistic chunks in a spatial context or in someother context.
For this reason, each preposition andverb was assigned a weight based on the proportionof occurrences of that word in the Penn Treebank(Marcus et al, 1993) which are labelled with a spa-tial meaning.
This weighting should give an approx-imation to the proportion of spatial usages of thatword on the web.Automated ClassificationAs a naive automated classification of the land-marks, the document counts were used to place eachlandmark in one of the three conceptual classes.Each landmark was placed in the class in which itwas found to appear most frequently, based on theclasses of the prepositions and verbs with which itappeared on the web.
Hence landmarks which ap-peared more often with a point-like preposition orverb, such as at or pass, were placed in the point cat-egory; landmarks which appeared more often witha line-like preposition or verb, such as follow, wereplaced in the line category; and landmarks which ap-peared more often with an area-like preposition orverb, such as around, were placed in the area cate-gory.As a more sophisticated classification scheme,we developed a supervised artificial neural networkclassifier.
The neural network we developed con-sisted of a three node input layer, a two node hid-den layer and a two node output layer, with learning12taking place via the backpropagation algorithm.
Foreach landmark, the percentage of web counts in eachof the three conceptual classes was used as the initialactivation value of the three nodes in the input layer.The activation of the output nodes was rounded to 1or 0.
The output node activations were used to indi-cate whether a landmark falls into the point, line orarea category ?
01 for point, 10 for line and 11 forarea.
An output of 00 was taken to indicate a fail-ure to classify.
The neural network was trained andtested using fourfold cross-validation, with the goldstandard classification as the desired output in eachcase.4 ResultsFive experiments were conducted on the simplevoting classifier and the neural network classifier.These experiments used increasingly sophisticatedinputs and gold standard measures to try to im-prove the performance of the classifiers, as measuredagainst the gold standard.
The neural network clas-sifier outperformed the voting classifier in all exper-iments but the final one.Of the 58 Melbourne landmarks, 27 were clas-sified as points by the majority of annotators, 2 aslines, and 29 as areas.
These majority classificationswere used as the gold standard.
For these classifica-tions, we calculated a kappa statistic of 0.528 (Car-letta, 1996).
This suggests that the annotation classi-fication task itself was only moderately well-formed,and that the assumption that multiple annotators willclassify landmarks in a similar manner does not nec-essarily hold true.To determine whether the classifiers were per-forming at an acceptable level, we established amajority-class baseline: 29 of the 58 landmarkswere areas, and hence the majority class classifierhas an accuracy of 50%.The maximum meaningful accuracy that can beachieved by a classifier is limited by the accuracyof the annotations themselves, creating an upperbound for classifier performance.
The upper boundwas calculated as the mean pairwise inter-annotatoragreement, which was determined to be 74.4%.Accuracy (%) E.R.R.
(%)Baseline 50.0Voting Classifier 63.8 56.6Neural Net Classifier 70.0 82.0Agreement 74.4Table 3: Results with simple web counts (Experi-ment 1)4.1 Experiment 1Experiment 1 involved using only the raw web countdata as input into the classifiers.
The accuracy anderror rate reduction (E.R.R.)
of the classifiers aregiven in Table 3.The neural network classifier produced resultsslightly better than the simple voting classifier, butwith 18 landmarks incorrectly classified by the neu-ral network, there is still plently of room for im-provement.
The raw web count data used in this ex-periment was likely to be biased in favour of certainprepositions and verbs, because some of these words(such as at and in, which each occur in over 7 bil-lion documents) are much more common than others(such as beside, which occurs in just over 50 milliondocuments).
This may result in the web counts be-ing unfairly weighted towards one class or another,creating classifier bias.The simple voting classifier showed a tendencytowards point classifications over line or area classi-fications.
The neural network classifier reversed thebias shown by the simple voting classifier, with thearea class showing high recall but low precision, re-sulting in a low recall for the point class.
Neither ofthe two line landmarks were classified correctly; infact, none of the landmarks were classified as lines.4.2 Experiment 2To adjust for the potential bias in preposition andverb use, the web counts were normalised againstthe prior probabilities of the relevant preposition orverb, by calculating the ratio of the count of each lin-guistic chunk to the count of its preposition or verbin isolation.
The accuracy and error rate reductionof the classifiers are given in Table 4.Normalising the web counts by the prior probabil-ities of the prepositions and verbs did not improvethe accuracy of the classifiers as expected.
The sim-13Accuracy (%) E.R.R.
(%)Baseline 50.0Voting Classifier 55.2 21.3Neural Net Classifier 70.0 82.0Upper 74.4Table 4: Results with normalised web counts (Ex-periment 2)ple voting classifier reduced in accuracy, while theaccuracy of the neural net classifier remained un-changed.4.3 Experiment 3As explained in Section 3.2, the annotators who gen-erated the gold standard were required to choose oneof point, line or area for each landmark, even if theywere unfamiliar with the landmark.
Some of theseannotators may have been forced to guess the ap-propriate class.
As a result, these annotations maycause the gold standard to lack validity, which couldbe one of the barriers to classifier improvement.In this experiment, a more sound gold standardwas generated by weighting annotators?
classifica-tions by their familiarity with the landmark.
Theeffect of this is that the judgement of an annota-tor who is very familiar with a landmark outweighsthe judgement of an annotator who is less familiar.Experiments 1 and 2 were conducted again basedon this new gold standard.
These repeated exper-iments are dubbed Experiments 1?
and 2?
respec-tively.
The results of each of the repeated experi-ments are shown in Table 5.The simple voting classifier showed improvementusing the weighted gold standard, with the accura-cies under Experiments 1?
and 2?
each exceedingthe accuracy of the equivalent experiment using theoriginal gold standard.
Experiment 1?
showed themost improvement for the simple voting classifier,giving an accuracy of 67.2% (only one landmark shyof the 70% accuracy achieved by the neural networkclassifier in experiment 1).While landmarks well-known to all are likelyto produce consistently valid classifications, andlandmarks poorly known to all are likely to pro-duce consistently invalid classifications, regardlessof whether a weighting scheme is used, it is the land-marks which are well-known to some and poorlyknown to others which should have gained the great-est benefit from annotations weighted by familiarity.However, the majority of such landmarks were al-ready being classified correctly by the neural net-work in both Experiments 1 and 2, which explainswhy the neural network showed no improvement.5 DiscussionSurprisingly, the naive conditions in Experiment 1produced the best overall result, which was a 70%accuracy for the neural network classifier.
Althoughthe voting classifier and the neural network classi-fier produced similar levels of accuracy for many ofthe experiments, there was very little overlap in thelandmarks that were correctly assigned by each clas-sifier.
Of the 40 landmarks correctly assigned by theneural network, 18 were incorrectly classified by thevoting classifier.
Conversely, of the 37 landmarkscorrectly assigned by the voting classifier, 15 wereincorrectly assigned by the neural network.
This in-dicates that the neural net is doing something moresophisticated than simply assigning each landmarkto its maximum category.A rather large subset of the landmarks was foundto be consistently misclassified by the neural net,under various training conditions.
For a number ofthese landmarks, the annotators showed strong dis-agreement and indicated that the landmark is am-biguous, suggesting that there is indeed an inherentambiguity in the way these landmarks are concep-tualised, both between annotators and on the web.Interestingly, all of the hospitals in the landmark listwere consistently misclassified.
A number of anno-tators expressed confusion with regard to these land-marks, as to whether the hospital itself or the sur-rounding gardens should be taken into account.
As aresult, annotations of the hospitals tended to be splitbetween point and area.However, some of the landmarks that were mis-classified by the neural net were classified consis-tently by the annotators ?
for example, GPO wasclassified as a point by all of the Melbourne an-notators.
The ambiguity here presumably lies inthe web counts, which were not able to detect thesame conceptualisation generated by the annotators.One complication with using web counts is the fact14Voting Classifier Neural Network ClassifierExperiment Accuracy (%) E.R.R.
(%) Accuracy (%) E.R.R.
(%)1?
67.2 70.5 65.5 63.52?
58.6 35.2 65.5 63.5Table 5: Results weighted according to landmark familiarity (Experiments 1?
and 2?
)that the data is global in scope, and with a simpleabbreviation like GPO, there may well be interfer-ence from documents which do not refer to the Mel-bourne landmark, and in fact may not refer to a land-mark or spatial object at all.One of the underlying assumptions of the studywas that all landmarks can be represented as fallinginto exactly one of the three conceptual classes ?point, line or area.
This may be an oversimplifica-tion.
Some landmarks may in fact be more proto-typical or ambiguous than others.
Certainly, a num-ber of the landmark annotations were split almostequally between point, line and area.
It may be thatannotators did not or could not take upon themselvesthe mentality of a cyclist as requested in the annota-tion instructions, and instead simply conceptualisedthe landmarks as they usually would, whether thatentails a pedestrian or car modality, or some alterna-tive such as a train or tram-like modality.
It may alsobe the case that there are individual differences inthe way people conceptualise certain types of land-marks, or indeed space in general, regardless of themodality involved.
If this is true, then the low inter-annotator agreement may be a product of these indi-vidual differences and not merely an artifact of theexperiment design.In summary, we have proposed a method for clas-sifying landmarks according to whether they aremost point-like, line-like or area-like, for use in thegeneration of route descriptions.
Our method re-lies crucially on analysis of what prepositions andverbs the landmarks co-occur with in web data.
In aseries of experiments, we showed that we are ableto achieve accuracy levels nearing inter-annotatoragreement levels for the task.One simplification made during the course of thisstudy was the treatment of parks and districts as be-ing comparable entities (i.e.
area-like landmarks).
Infact, a distinction may be made between open areassuch as districts, with which the preposition throughmay be used, and closed areas such as parks, forwhich through does not apply for car navigation (al-though obviously does apply for pedestrian naviga-tion).
We hope to take this into account in futurework.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by Australian Research CouncilDP grant no.
DP0770931.
The authors wish to thank Lars Kulikfor his input into this research.ReferencesGary L. Allen.
1997.
From knowledge to words to wayfinding:Issues in the production and comprehension of route direc-tions.
In Spatial Information Theory: Cognitive and Com-putational Foundations of Geographic Information Science(COSIT 1997), pages 363?372.Jean Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on classifica-tion tasks: the kappa statistic.
Computational Linguistics,22(2):249?254.Robert Dale, Sabine Geldof, and Jean-Philippe Prost.
2005.Using natural language generation in automatic route de-scription.
Journal of Research and Practice in InformationTechnology, 37(1):89?105.Stefan Hansen, Kai-Florian Richter, and Alexander Klippel.2006.
Landmarks in OpenLS ?
a data structure for cog-nitive ergonomic route directions.
In Geographic Informa-tion Science ?
Fourth International Conference, GIScience2006, pages 128?144.Adam Kilgarriff and Gregory Grefenstette.
2003.
Introductionto the special issue on the web as corpus.
ComputationalLinguistics, 29(3):333?347.Alexander Klippel.
2003.
Wayfinding Choremes: Conceptual-izing Wayfinding and Route Direction Elements.
Ph.D. the-sis, Universitt Bremen.Barbara Landau and Ray Jackendoff.
1993.
?what?
and?where?
in spatial cognition.
Behavioral and Brain Sci-ences, 16:217?65.Mirella Lapata and Frank Keller.
2004.
The web as a base-line: Evaluating the performance of unsupervised web-basedmodels for a range of nlp tasks.
In Proceedings of the Hu-man Language Technology Conference of the North Ameri-can Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 121?128.15Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alternations.A Preliminary Investigation.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago.Kirstin Lovelace, Mary Hegarty, and Daniel R. Montello.
1999.Elements of good route directions in familiar and unfamil-iar environments.
In Spatial Information Theory: Cognitiveand Computational Foundations of Geographic InformationScience (COSIT 1999), pages 65?82, Stade, Germany.Mitchell P. Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, and Mary AnnMarcinkiewicz.
1993.
Building a large annotated corpusof English: the Penn treebank.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):313?30.Pierre-Emmanuel Michon and Michel Denis.
2001.
When andwhy are visual landmarks used in giving directions?
InSpatial Information Theory: Cognitive and ComputationalFoundations of Geographic Information Science (COSIT2001), pages 292?305, Morro Bay, USA.Taro Tezuka and Katsumi Tanaka.
2005.
Landmark extraction:A web mining approach.
In Spatial Information Theory:Cognitive and Computational Foundations of GeographicInformation Science (COSIT 2005), pages 379?396, Elli-cottville, USA.Andrea Tyler and Vyvyan Evans.
2003.
Lexical meaning andexperience: the semantics of English prepositions.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K.16
