Proceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspective on Multiword Expressions, pages 49?56,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsPauses as an Indicator ofPsycholinguistically Valid Multi-Word Expressions (MWEs)?Irina Dahlmann and Svenja AdolphsSchool of English StudiesUniversity of NottinghamUniversity Park, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK{aexid,svenja.adolphs}@nottingham.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper we investigate the role of theplacement of pauses in automatically ex-tracted multi-word expression (MWE) can-didates from a learner corpus.
The aim is toexplore whether the analysis of pausesmight be useful in the validation of thesecandidates as MWEs.
The study is basedon the assumption advanced in the area ofpsycholinguistics that MWEs are stored ho-listically in the mental lexicon and aretherefore produced without pauses in natu-rally occurring discourse.
Automatic MWEextraction methods are unable to capturethe criterion of holistic storage and insteadrely on statistics and raw frequency in theidentification of MWE candidates.
In thisstudy we explore the possibility of a com-bination of the two approaches.
We reporton a study in which we analyse the place-ment of pauses in various instances of twovery frequent automatically extractedMWE candidates from a learner corpus, i.e.the n-grams I don?t know and I think I. In-tuitively, they are judged differently interms of holistic storage.
Our study ex-plores whether pause analysis can be usedas an objective empirical criterion to sup-port this intuition.
A corpus of interviewdata of language learners of English formsthe basis of this study.1 IntroductionMWEs are ubiquitous in language (e.g.
Erman andWarren, 2001; Wray, 2002; Pawley and Syder,2000) but at the same time they presentresearchers, especially in the areas of NLP,descriptive linguistics and (second) languageacquisition (see for example Sag et al, 2002;Wray, 2000, 2002) with a number of challenges.Two of the most serious challenges are theidentification and definition of MWEs.
These areinterdependent and cause a circular problem: Aslong as we cannot identify and describe theproperties of MWEs fully, a definition remainsonly partial and, in return, without a full definitionthe identification process is incomplete.Nevertheless, methods of identification havebeen developed and used, based on broad criteria,e.g.
human intuition, frequency information or se-mantic and grammatical properties (e.g.
idioms,light-verb constructions, adjective noun colloca-tions).A considerable amount of research in NLP andin linguistics draws on two broad definitions bySag et al (2002) and Wray (2002), respectively.Sag et al define MWEs ?very roughly?
as?idiosyncratic interpretations that cross wordboundaries (or spaces)?
(Sag et al 2002:2).They specify further that MWEs can be classifiedbroadly into two categories according to their syn-tactic and semantic flexibility, i.e.
lexical phrasesand institutionalised phrases.Wray (2002), coming from a psycholinguisticperspective, wants to be ?as inclusive as possible,covering any kind of linguistic unit that has beenconsidered formulaic in any research field?
(p.9).She defines the term ?formulaic sequence?
as?a sequence, continuous or discontinuous, of wordsor other elements, which is or appears to be pre-fabricated: that is, stored and retrieved whole from49memory at the time of use, rather than being sub-ject to generation or analysis by the languagegrammar.?
(Wray 2002:9)The main difference between the two definitionsis the inclusion of holistic storage of MWEs in themental lexicon by Wray, whereas Sag et al?s defi-nition, which has been used extensively in NLPresearch, focuses mainly on syntactic and semanticproperties of the MWE.One of the possible reasons why holistic storagehas not found its way into NLP research may berelated to the fact that this criterion is almost im-possible to measure directly.
However, it has beenproposed that prosodic cues and pauses are indirectindicators of prefabricated language and holisticstorage as MWEs in speech exhibit more phono-logical coherence (e.g.
Hickey, 1993).If we assume that MWEs are stored as holisticunits in memory, we would firstly not expect tofind pauses within MWEs.
Pawley (1986) statesthat ?pauses within lexicalised phrase are less ac-ceptable than pauses within free expressions, andafter a hesitation the speaker is more likely to re-start from the beginning of the expression?
(p.107,quoted from Wray, 2002).
This is in line with Rau-pach (1984) who studied spontaneous L2 speechproduction and stresses that ?a formal approach toidentifying formula units in spontaneous speechmust, as a first step, list the strings which are notinterrupted by unfilled pauses?
(p.116).Secondly, we would expect that pauses, i.e.
si-lent pauses and hesitation phenomena, may alsoserve in the delineation of MWE boundaries (Rau-pach, 1984:114).The research outlined above is echoed in morerecent studies of MWEs and pauses in the devel-opment of speech fluency.
The placement, quantityand lengths of pauses are important markers of flu-ency (e.g.
Riggenbach 1991) and the stretches be-tween pauses may be fluent because pauses pro-vide planning time to formulate the next utterance(Pawley and Syder, 2000) and the utterance maybe (partly) a prefabricated string of words (MWE).Previous research into MWEs and fluency is es-pecially important from a methodological perspec-tive, as it provides methodological frameworks forthe study of pauses,  for example, the integration ofsilent and filled pauses, which both provide plan-ning time (Raupach, 1984; Pawley and Syder,2000), or the significance of pause lengths (Pawleyand Syder, 2000).
These aspects are, for instance,not sufficiently reflected in existing pause annota-tion schemes in spoken corpora (see also section3.1), which has hampered the study of pauses andMWEs on a large scale so far.The aim of our study is therefore twofold.Firstly, in terms of methodology, we combine in-sights from fluency and MWEs research with acorpus approach and automatic extraction ofMWEs.Secondly, we analyse whether units which havebeen extracted automatically also comply withpredicted pause behaviour (no pauses withinMWEs, pauses as indicator of MWE boundaries)and therefore whether they are psycholinguisticallyvalid.This kind of study may help develop our under-standing of MWEs in naturally occurring discourse.In addition, it allows us to explore further whetherthe study of pause phenomena might be a usefultool in the evaluation of automatic extractionmethods.2 Pauses and MWEsAs outlined above research on prosodic featuresand MWEs has found that MWEs tend to exhibitmore phonological coherence (e.g.
Hickey, 1993;Read and Nation 2004; Wray, 2002).
Van Lanckeret al (1981), for instance, found phonological dif-ferences depending on whether a string carried lit-eral or idiomatic meaning in a read aloud task (e.g.skating on thin ice).
The differences in the literaland idiomatic contexts were partly mirrored in thenumber and placement of pauses.
Idiomatic ex-pressions are uttered at a faster speed which is tosome extent related to the lack of pauses within theidiomatic expression (Van Lancker et al1981:331).
Additional indicators are the pace atwhich key words were used (increased word dura-tion of major lexical items in the literal version),the length of the whole utterance, pitch changes,and articulatory precision (Van Lancker et al,1981).
Phonological coherence and further pro-sodic features (stress and intonation) may thereforebe regarded as physical indicators of the storageand retrieval of MWEs which in turn can help toidentify MWEs in spoken language.Problems with this kind of investigation aremainly related to the lack of consistent methodol-ogy for studying pauses as physical markers ofholistic storage in an empirical manner, i.e.
usingnaturally occurring corpus data.
Key problems are50the shortage of suitable spoken corpora and incon-sistent pause annotation schemes.3 Methodological challenges3.1 Corpora and pause annotationAs the aim of this study is to explore holisticstorage and retrieval of MWEs in naturally occur-ring speech, a corpus of spontaneous speech is re-quired.
Both, audio data and transcriptions areneeded for the automatic extraction of MWEs andpause annotation respectively.Unfortunately, not many available spoken cor-pora have been marked up for pauses as it is a verylabour intensive process and currently has to bedone largely manually.
In cases where pause mark-ing has been applied, it does not necessarily meetthe specific requirements for phonological analysis(Read & Nation 2004:32).
For example, pausesmay not have been defined sufficiently for thispurpose, as in the spoken part of the BNC where apause is defined as a ?silence, within or betweenutterances, longer than was judged normal for thespeaker or speakers?
1 .
The definition of pauselength ?
unlike in fluency research ?
can be toobroad in existing corpus annotation, e.g.
pauseshave to be perceived as a pause (short, medium,long) or, when timing is included it is often veryvague, e.g.
a ?comma indicates a brief (1-2 second)mid-utterance pause with non-phrase final intona-tion contour?
in the MICASE corpus.2 In compari-son, the minimum threshold for a pause lies ataround 0.2-0.3 seconds in fluency research.
Fur-thermore, not all corpora which contain silentpause annotation have also annotated filled pauses.In fact, a survey of 12 corpus pause codingschemes (native and learner language) shows thatnone complies with the requirements needed forthe study of fluency and MWU related research.31 http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/docs/userManual/cdif.xml.ID=cdifsp (last accessed 25/03/2007)2 http://www.lsa.umich.edu/eli/micase/MICASE_MANUAL.pdf (last accessed 25/03/2007)3 This is especially unfortunate in the case of the London-Lund Corpus (LLC), which in theory lends itself to this kindof study for native English MWEs usage: The LLC containsnot only pause annotation but also marking of other prosodicfeatures such as tone unit boundaries, the nucleus, and varyingdegrees of stress.
These can serve as additional indicators forMWEs in use.
However, only silent pauses are marked andonly in broad terms, i.e.
?-?
indicates a ?brief pause of one lightsyllable?, ???
indicates a ?unit pause of one stress unit or ?foot?.Due to the lack of corpora which combine spon-taneous speech and appropriate pause annotationwe have developed a learner corpus which we thenselectively annotated for pauses.
The corpus con-tains 290,000 transcribed words of spontaneousinterview discourse produced by Chinese learnersof English (with accompanying audio files).
Theproficiency level of the Chinese students in thewhole corpus is based on IELTS scores and rangesfrom 5.0 ?
6.5 (of max.
9).
Scores from around 5.5onwards (depending on the intended studies) arerequired for foreign students for admission at aBritish university.
The two speakers investigatedhere have scores of 5.0 and 5.5 respectively.Only two students have been chosen for thisstudy in order to reduce the number of possiblevariables affecting the results, especially with re-gard to idiosyncratic usage.The choice of learner data rather than nativespeaker data evolved not only from practical con-siderations, but also from the wider aim of ourstudy which is related to fluency and language ac-quisition.
In addition, when applying preliminarypause annotations to extracts of both native andnon-native speech, we observed that learners seemto pause a lot more than native speakers.
Nativespeakers seem to apply some other modes of ?paus-ing?
?
such as using fillers, repeating words or re-phrasing ?
more extensively.
Therefore, we mightexpect clearer results from the learner data ini-tially.
In fact, it will be interesting to see in com-parison, whether pauses might even tell us moreabout learners than about native speakers with re-gard to the use of MWEs.It nevertheless has to be acknowledged thatthere might be considerable differences in learnerand native speech; however, both varieties arevalid in their own right, especially with respect toholistic storage and usage.Careful pause annotation was then carried outaround a selected set of automatically extractedMWEs from the learner data (see 3.2 and 3.3) toexplore the approach outlined above.3.2 Automatic extraction ?
n-gramsDifferent MWE extraction methods abound butwe decided to begin our study with an investiga-tion of n-grams as a way into the proposed ap-This is one of the limitations of the only large-scale study inthe field of pauses and MWEs (Erman, 2007), as it is basedsolely on the LLC and its annotation.51proach.
The choice of n-grams, described as one ofthe most successful statistical models (Gil and Dias,2003), was based on several reasons.Firstly, the assumption behind n-grams is thatcontinuous strings of words, which are used re-peatedly and frequently in the same form in aspeech community, are also likely to be stored ho-listically in memory.Secondly, simple n-grams are continuous se-quences.
This aids the study of pauses at this earlystage as discontinuous sequences or sequenceswith variable slots might exhibit different pausebehaviour and/or prosodic features.4In addition, the special case of learner languagerequires an extraction method which is based onthe actual corpus data itself and not on precon-ceived ideas of whether or not a particular multi-word string is in fact a valid MWE, as is the casewith symbolic or knowledge based extractionmethods.
Learners may have their own (sub-)set ofMWEs (Wray 1999).
These may be characterisedby idiosyncratic MWEs, which nevertheless maybe used frequently either by individuals or by acertain speech community, e.g.
Chinese learners ofEnglish.A further advantage of using n-grams is that theextraction is fully automated and therefore doesnot require human intervention.
This extractionmethod does not take into account the additionalfactor of ?meaning?
as the process of extractionitself is very mechanical and not dependant onmeaning.N 3-grams Freq.
%1 A LOT OF 352 0.172 I DON?T KNOW 327 0.163 I THINK I 300 0.154 I THINK IT?S 252 0.125 SO I THINK 220 0.116 I WANT TO 211 0.17 I THINK THE 188 0.098 BUT I THINK 185 0.099 I DON?T THINK 146 0.0710 I THINK ER 143 0.07Table 1.
10 most frequent 3-gramsextracted from 290,000 words of learner inter-view data4 Discontinuous MWEs and n-grams are nevertheless impor-tant, which is reflected in the development of more refinedextraction methods (e.g.
positional n-grams (Gil and Dias,2003) and ConcGrams (Chen et al 2006)).
However, they areonly of secondary interest for us at this stage.This is one of the disadvantages at the same time.Frequent examples in our spoken learner corpusare n-grams such as I think er, I I I or and er Iwhich at first glance do not appear to be holisti-cally stored MWEs.Drawing on n-grams as an approach also allowsus to study MWE candidates, which ?
on the basisof intuition ?
do not appear to be stored holistically,but nevertheless occur very frequently in the cor-pus.For our analysis we have chosen two very fre-quent 3-grams (see Table 1) which contrast interms of their internal consistency.
I don?t knowseems to be an example of a self contained MWEcandidate whereas I think I is an example of aMWE candidate which intuitively does not seem tobe psycholinguistically valid, i.e.
stored as a holis-tic item.53.3 Pause annotation and research questionsThe analysis has been carried out for two differentspeakers and the following number of n-grams (seeTable 2).MWE candidate Speaker MS001 Speaker MS003I don?t know 21 26I think I  16 28Table 2.
MWE candidates per speakerPauses have been measured manually with au-dio-visual clues, i.e.
the combination of audio re-cording and waveforms, both displayed by AdobeAudition.
Within this software the pause length (inseconds, correct to the third decimal) is calculatedby marking up a stretch of the wave form, whichhas been identified as a pause.5 The analysis of other contrastive pairs, e.g.
on the basis ofsyntactic properties such as I don?t know vs.
I don?t see (keep-ing the syntactic structure but changing the lexical verb - assuggested by one of the reviewers) also seems sensible.
How-ever, the choice of the substituting items has to be well in-formed by factors such as frequency of the single lexicalverbs, compared to frequency of the whole string, as for ex-ample done by Tremblay et al (2007).
However, this does notnecessarily lead to an unproblematic comparison: I don?t see,for instance, only occurs two times in our data set of sponta-neous speech, which is not frequent enough to find pause pat-terns or to compare it to the pause patterns of I don?t know.Such an approach thus seems to lend itself more readily toexperimental studies (such as the self-paced reading experi-ments by Tremblay et al 2007) with carefully designed stim-uli, and not to the study of natural occurring speech.52Pause measurement in fluency research com-monly suggests thresholds between 0.2-0.3 sec-onds as a minimum for a silence to be regarded andperceived as a pause (e.g.
Goldman Eisler, 1968,Towell et al, 1996).
To account for this, pausesbetween 0.2 and 0.3 seconds length were measuredcorrect to two digits in order to allow for a lateradjustment of minimal pause length, pauses above0.3 were measured to one digit.
Filled pauses weremeasured if they seemed exceptionally long.
Both,silent and filled pauses are marked here for thepurpose of placement indication with ?< >?.The main focus of our analysis is on pause dis-tribution and the following five cases of place-ments of pauses have been identified as pertinentto our study: (?____?indicates text which can theo-retically be of any length, < > indicates pause)a. M W < > E (pause within the MWE candidate)b.
< > MWE < >c.
< > MWE ____< >d.
< > _____MWE < >e.
< > _____MWE _____ < >In the annotation of pause patterns around the twodifferent MWE candidates the following questionsare explored:(1) Do the two candidates seem to be storedholistically, i.e.
do they contain pauseswithin the extracted form or not?
(Refer-ring to pause placement pattern a.
)(2) Do pauses assist in the determination ofMWE boundaries, i.e.
are there any regularpause patterns which indicate boundaries?Do pauses seem to align MWEs in theform in which they were extracted?
(Refer-ring to b.-e.)(3) Do the results comply with intuition, i.e.does I don?t know fit the predicted behav-iour better than I think I?4 Results and discussion4.1 ?I don?t know?Forty seven I don?t know?s, used by two differentspeakers within approximately 71,000 words ofinterview data have been studied for pause phe-nomena.
The distribution is summarised in Table 3.Pause distribution MS001 MS003 ?MW< > E -- -- --< > MWE < > 9 1 10< > MWE __ < > 5 14 19< > __ MWE < > 2 3 5< > __ MWE__ < > 5 8 13Table 3.
Pause distributionaround 47 instances of I don?t knowAs expected, in the speech examples at hand, Idon?t know is never interrupted by pauses, which isa good indicator for holistic storage of this particu-lar string of words by the two learners.In terms of boundary alignments it can be ob-served that almost two thirds of the examples con-tain pauses immediately preceding I don?t know(29:18), which in turn can be interpreted as a signof a MWE boundary.
It has to be taken into ac-count that MWEs can occur within other MWEs orwithin a stretch of creative speech.
Therefore,pauses do not need to be present on all occasionseven if it seems to be a boundary.
The fact, thatpauses nevertheless do occur very often and thatthese pauses are proper pauses - on average farlonger than the suggested 0.2 seconds (on average0.57 seconds) reinforces the case for an actualboundary.The case is different for the final boundary.
Ifpauses occur right at the end of I don?t know theyare shorter overall (0.39 seconds on average).
Themain point is, however, that in over two thirds ofthe instances (32:15) no pause occurs in this place.A further observation is that the ?ideal?
form (interms of boundary recognition and validation) < >MWE < > with pauses at either side of the extractedMWE candidate, occurs infrequently.
It seemsrather idealistic to expect language to be organizedneatly according to stored chunks.
Instead speakersare generally capable of placing several chunksand/or creative language together in one stretch ofspeech.
Pawley and Syder (2000) suggest that ?theaverage number of words per fluent unit is aboutsix?
(p. 195) for fluent (native) speakers.
The ac-tual average number of words might differ slightlyfor learners, however the point is that either waythe numbers are averages and in single instancesstretches might be considerably longer.
It is there-fore not surprising that 3-word n-grams might beembedded within longer stretches of speech andare not surrounded by pauses.
Furthermore, Miller(1956) states in his paper The magical number53seven, that ?the memory span is a fixed number ofchunks, we can increase the number of bits of in-formation that it contains simply by building largerand larger chunks, each chunk containing moreinformation than before.?
(p.93).
In other words, ifI don?t know is stored as one chunk or item (in-stead of three single words) it is more likely that itmay be embedded in a larger portion of languageas the memory is able to handle more languageitems.Moreover, the form < > MWE < > is mainly usedby one speaker (MS001; 9:1).
This points towardsthe importance of the consideration of idiosyn-cratic usage, especially when dealing with learnerlanguage (but it also plays a role in native usage):learners may use MWEs in a much more restrictedway, i.e.
the way they have learned a particularphrase instead of using it appropriate to the con-text.
For instance, learner MS003 evidently alsohas a preferred way of using I don?t know, namely< > MWE __ < > (14:5).It also has to be taken into consideration that Idon?t know can be used as a discourse marker/filleror in the more literal sense of ?I don?t have theknowledge?.
This distinction might be of signifi-cance for clearer descriptions of the MWE gener-ally.In summary, one may want to argue that I don?tknow may function as a core MWE.
It seems to bestored holistically as it does not exhibit pauseswithin the core, but it allows for variation andelongation at the end, preferably introduced by aquestion word (e.g.
why, what, where, how).
Forexample, four out of five instances of speakerMS001, using the form < > I don?t know __ < >,are followed by why.
Speaker MS003 also preferswhy (in 6 out of 14 instances).
That raises thequestion as to whether I dont know why may evenbe regarded as a separate MWE.
In fact, consider-ing all results and the distribution of pauses, onecould also argue that there may be several differentMWEs:?
I don?t know?
I don?t know wh=?
I don?t know why?
I don?t know why but?
I don?t know if?
I don?t know [the (NP)]?
but I don?t knowBiber et al (1999:1002), studying lexical bun-dles6 also found plenty of such structures.
For ex-ample, they find that the structure personal pro-noun + lexical verb phrase (+ complement?clausefragment) - which fits most of the above exam-ples ?
is very common in conversation.
They alsorecord many of the examples listed above in theircategory of four-word bundle expressions with I +know.
(ibid.).
However, whereas their analysis isbased on frequency information alone, the veryrare use of pauses between I don?t know and thesubsequent word(s) gives more confidence in thatthese strings are actually valid units from two per-spective, that of frequency and holistic storage.4.2 ?I think I?Forty four instances of I think I have been anno-tated.
The pause distribution within these examplesis as follows:Pause distribution MS001 MS003 ?MW< > E 5 3 8< > MWE < > 1 3 4< > MWE __ < > 5 7 12< > __ MWE < > -- 3 3< > __ MWE__ < > 5 12 17Table 4.
Pause distributionaround 44 instances of I think II think I had been chosen for analysis because ?intuitively ?
it does not seem to be a holisticallystored MWE.
Especially in comparison with nosingle pause occurring within 47 I don?t know?s theresults seem to (at least partly) confirm this.
Eightout of 44 examples do exhibit pause phenomena inI think I which is a first indicator that probably notall instances of I think I are stored holistically.
Acloser assessment of the eight MW< >E instancesreveals that all but one exhibit the pause after Ithink.
This is not surprising as I think is the mostfrequent occurring bi-gram in the data (almost3000 instances in the 290,000 word learner corpusand 3 times more frequent as the second most fre-quent bi-gram you know).
In fact, I think I could beregarded as a sub-unit of I think, similar to the rela-tionship between I don?t know and I don?t know6 The definition of lexical bundles is essentially based on fre-quency - they are ?sequences of words that most commonlyco-occur in a register.?
Furthermore, Biber et al observed that?most lexical bundles are not structurally complete at all?
(Biber et al 1999:989).54why.
Thus, the eight instances with pause breaksmay be actually instances of the MWE candidate Iknow where I happens to mark the beginning of thenext clause.Interestingly, all 44 instances are followed by afull clause, which has the second I of I think I asthe subject at the beginning of the new clause.
Inaddition, I think seems to be used rather in thefunction of filler, possibly in order to providethinking time for the next utterance.
This happensextensively in the eight I think <> I____ caseswhere I think is followed by a pause.
However, andas discussed earlier, the absence of a pause doesnot necessarily mean the absence of a MWEboundary.
Therefore the 17 < > __ I think I __ < >cases and the 12 < > I think I __ < > cases may fol-low the same pattern with using I think as a filler.In these instances no further pause is necessary.However, this does not explain the 7 instanceswhere pauses do occur at the end of I think I. Idio-syncratic usage might be one explanation as it ismainly a feature used by MS003 (6 times) and theonly instance of MS001 coincides with a falsestart.
Further investigations using a larger data-setmight be able to confirm whether this pattern isdue to idiosyncratic usage.4.3 Summary and limitationsThe analysis of pauses in our data would suggestthat I don?t know might be stored holistically whileit is questionable that this is the case for I think Iwhich is interrupted by pauses in some of the in-stances that were investigated.In terms of the delineation of boundaries, it canbe said that pauses are only helpful to a limitedextent as boundaries are not conditional on them.The absence of a pause does not exclude the possi-bility that it might in fact be a boundary.
However,where pauses occur they give valuable indicationsof possible boundaries.
The results can give usefulinformation on actual MWE usage to fields such aslexicography, (second/computational) languageacquisition and teaching.These initial findings are encouraging, but theyare nevertheless based on limited data in terms ofthe number and forms of MWEs investigated, andalso the number of speakers considered.Future research should thus draw on more in-stances by different speakers in order to determineidiosyncratic usage and to arrive at more stablepatterns.
A comparison with native speaker usageseems crucial and promising for a more compre-hensive description of MWEs.In addition, studying intonation and stress pat-terns of these instances may indicate boundariesmore clearly.Finally, MWEs may be used in more than onesense, as in the case of I don?t know which has tobe considered for each different MWE candidateindividually.5 Conclusion: Value for NLP and futureworkIn this paper we have reported on a study whichcombines approaches within NLP for the identifi-cation of MWE candidates with pause analysis.The aim was to explore an approach which mightlead to a frequency-based and psycholinguisticallymotivated description of MWEs.The results of our study seem to suggest that theplacement of pauses might be valuable as an addi-tional criterion for the identification of holisticallystored MWEs, however, larger data-sets and fur-ther pause annotation is necessary to confirm ourinitial findings.Further investigations of other functions ofpauses and other prosodic features within a givenstretch of discourse need to be carried out in orderto fully assess the role of pauses in relation to ho-listic storage.
A discourse functional analysiswould be necessary to identify functional motiva-tion of pauses and to delineate these from n-gramswhere the placement of pauses is related to holisticstorage.However, our study has illustrated the potentialof a multi-method and interdisciplinary approachto the identification and description of MWEswhich may eventually be necessary to overcomesome of the problems within NLP in terms of de-veloping extraction methods, and some of theproblems in descriptive linguistics and discourseanalysis in terms of gathering evidence for differ-ent MWEs in use.AcknowledgementThe research described in this paper is supportedby the Engineering and Physical Science ResearchCouncil (EPSRC, grant EP/C548191/1).
We wouldalso like to thank the three anonymous reviewersfor their comments on an earlier draft of this paper.55ReferencesDouglas Biber, Stig Johansson, Geoffrey Leech, SusanConrad and Edward Finegan.
1999.
LongmanGrammar of spoken and written English.
Harlow:LongmanWinnie Chen, Chris Greaves and Martin Warren.
2006.From n-gram to skipgram to concgram.
InternationalJournal of Corpus Linguistics 11(4): 411-433.Britt Erman.
2007.
Cognitive processes as evidence ofthe idiom principle.
International Journal of CorpusLinguistics 12(1): 25-53.Britt Erman and Beatrice Warren.
2000.
The idiomprinciple and the open choice principle.
Text 20(1):29-62.Alexandre Gil and Ga?l Dias.
2003.
Using Masks, Suf-fix Array-based Data Structures and Multidimen-sional Arrays to Compute Positional Ngram Statisticsfrom Corpora.
In: Proceedings of the ACL 2003?Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Analysis,Acquisition and Treatment?, Sapporo, Japan 12th July2003, 25-32.Frieda Goldman-Eisler.
1968.
Psycholinguistics: ex-periments in spontaneous speech.
London, NewYork: Academic Press.Tina Hickey.
1993.
Identifying formulas in first lan-guage acquisition.
Journal of Child Language 20:27-41.George A Miller.
1956.
The magical number seven, plusor minus two: some limits on our capacity for proc-essing information.
The Psychological Review63(2):81-97.Andrew Pawley.
1986.
Lexicalization.
In: DeborahTannen and James E. Alatis (eds.).
Language & Lin-guistics: The interdependence of theory, data & ap-plication.
Georgetown University Round Table onLanguages & Linguistics 1985, 98-120.Andrew Pawley and Frances Syder.
2000.
The One-Clause-at-a-Time Hypothesis.
In: Heidi Riggenbach(ed.).
Perspectives on fluency.
Ann Arbor: Universityof Michigan Press, 163-199.Manfred Raupach.
1984.
Formulae in Second LanguageSpeech Production.
In: Hans W. Dechert, DorotheaM?hle and Manfred Raupach (eds.).
Second Lan-guage Productions.
T?bingen: Narr, 114-137.John Read and Paul Nation.
2004.
Measurement of for-mulaic sequences.
In: Norbert Schmitt (ed.).
Formu-laic Sequences.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 23-35.Heidi Riggenbach.
1991.
Towards an understanding offluency: A microanalysis of nonnative speaker con-versations.
Discourse Processes, 14: 423-441.Ivan Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword ex-pressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
In: Proceed-ings of the 3rd International Conferences on Intelli-gent Text Processing and Computational Linguistics(CICLing-2002), Mexico City, Mexico, 1-15.Antoine Tremblay, Bruce Derwing, Gary Libben andChris Westbury.
2007.
Are Lexical Bundles Storedand Processed as Single Units?
Paper presented atthe 25th UWM Linguistics Symposium on FormulaicLanguage.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, April 18-21, 2007Richard Towell, Roger Hawkins and Nives Bazergui1996.
The development of fluency in advancedlearners of French.
Applied Linguistics, 17(1):84-119.Diana Van Lancker, Gerald J. Canter and Dale Terbeek.1981.
Disambiguation of Ditropic Sentences: Acous-tic and Phonetic Cues.
Journal of Speech and Hear-ing Research, 24:330-335.Alison Wray.
2002.
Formulaic Language and the Lexi-con.
Cambridge, CUP.Alison Wray.
1999.
Formulaic language in learners andnative speakers.
Language Teaching, 32:213-231.56
