Balto-Slavonic Natural Language Processing 2007, June 29, 2007, pages 11?18,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsImplementation of Croatian NERC SystemBo?o BekavacDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of ZagrebIvana Lu?i?a 3, Zagreb, Croatiabbekavac@ffzg.hrMarko Tadi?Department of LinguisticsUniversity of ZagrebIvana Lu?i?a 3, Zagreb, Croatiamarko.tadic@ffzg.hrAbstractIn this paper a system for Named EntityRecognition and Classification in Croatianlanguage is described.
The system is com-posed of the module for sentence segmen-tation, inflectional lexicon of commonwords, inflectional lexicon of names andregular local grammars for automatic rec-ognition of numerical and temporal expres-sions.
After the first step (sentence segmen-tation), the system attaches to each tokenits full morphosyntactic description andappropriate lemma and additional tags forpotential categories for names without dis-ambiguation.
The third step (the core of thesystem) is the application of a set of rulesfor recognition and classification of namedentities in already annotated texts.
Rulesbased on described strategies (like internaland external evidence) are applied in cas-cade of transducers in defined order.
Al-though there are other classification sys-tems for NEs, the results of our system areannotated NEs which are following MUC-7specification.
System is applied on infor-mative and noninformative texts and resultsare compared.
F-measure of the system ap-plied on informative texts yields over 90%.1 IntroductionTo produce a Named Entity Recognition and Clas-sification (NERC) system for a lesser spread Slaviclanguage like Croatian could be a task which dif-fers a lot from the task of building such a systemfor a language like English, German or French.Compared to them, Croatian language has moreelaborated inflectional system and more freedom inthe word order within the sentence.
Besides, theresources and tools needed for producing such asystem (POS/MSD tagger, sentence segmentator,chunker, lexicons or gazetteers etc.)
are not widelyavailable.But still we can say that even in languages withthat kind of structural properties like Slavic lan-guages have, named entities (NE) form a subset ofnatural language expressions that demonstratesrelatively predictable structures.
It could be ques-tioned whether the relatively free word order inCroatian also covers the named entities (how muchit influences their internal structure and their posi-tion in a sentence structure).
What we also aim atin this paper is to investigate the possibility to de-scribe NE with relatively simple rule-based sys-tems i.e.
whether it is possible to describe and clas-sify NE in Croatian using regular grammars.The next part of the paper describes basic meth-odology of our system.
The third part presentsstrategies for NERC which have been convertedinto rules.
The fourth part describes the archi-tecture of the system while the fifth gives the re-sults.
The conclusion describes also possible futuredirections.2 MethodologyThis NERC system for Croatian is based onhand-made rules encoded in transducers which areapplied in a cascade (Abney, 1996).
The reason forselecting this method was simple.
Since this is thefirst NERC system for Croatian, and there were noprevious solutions for any particular NE class, wehad to split the general NERC problem to a set of11smaller locally manageable problems covering notjust broad NE classes, but also their subclasseswhich were recognized by characteristic patterns.In such a way the set of rules could be kept undercontrol and modules covering different parts of aproblem could be called when needed in theruntime.
In the same time the development time isshorter and the system is more consistent.Every transducer in our system represents a lo-cal grammar (Gross, 1993) dedicated to the de-scription of a part of a sentence i.e.
local linguisticexpression.
The orientation to a local descriptionwhere the simpler (and more certain) cases aresolved first, followed by more complex ones, givesmore precision to the whole system.
This ?islandof certainty?
principle (Abney, 1996:11) is alsoused in our NERC system.The system uses the principle of the ?longestmatch?
as any other NERC system: in the case ofmore than one possible expression recognized byrules several different rules, system chooses thelongest one.
In this way potentially ambiguousNEs are being dynamically disambiguated (see e1where Maduni?
Ltd. would be recognized and clas-sified as organization NE because of the principleof the ?longest match?
which also included Ltd andthus avoiding matching only family name Maduni?from the lexicon of names).3 StrategiesIn this section we will discuss the basic strategiesthat have been used in different NERC systems andtheir applicability for Croatian.3.1 Internal and external evidenceThe simple NER could be done by direct match oftext with the list of NEs.
Even if we previouslysolve the problem of inflection, such an approachwould result with a lot of errors.
In the examplee1: Znali smo da je Maduni?
d.o.o.
uvlasni?tvu njegova oca.
(We knewthat Maduni?
Ltd is a property ofhis father.
)the expression Maduni?
could be wrongly recog-nized and classified as a family name.
Even thatresult can be questionable since it may happen thatthis very name is not in the list of family names.Better results could be gained by using more in-formation i.e.
features which already exist in NEs.One of features for personal names are titles suchas dr., mr., prof., ing.
etc., for company namescharacteristic strings are d.o.o.
(Ltd), d.d.
(S.A.,GmBH) etc.
Such explicit strings are called inter-nal evidence (McDonald 1996:22) and usuallyform a part of NE.On the other hand the example such as:e2: Danas je stiglo pismo izpoduze?a "?uro ?akovi?".
(A letterfrom the firm "?uro ?akovi?"
arrivedtoday.
)would yield simple person name ?uro ?akovi?
ifthe contextual information of NE (i.e.
string po-duze?a/the firm and usage of quotes) is not takeninto account.
NEs often refer to certain classessuch as institutions, hospitals, schools, persons,etc.
Such contextual feature is called external evi-dence (McDonald 1996:22) and its recognition ismostly used as a classification criterion i.e.
classmembership proof.
In the case illustrated by thefollowing example:e3: U klinici za infektivne bolesti"Dr. Fran Mihaljevi?"
tog je danabila gu?va.
(It was crowded that dayat the clinic for infectuous dis-eases "Dr. Fran Mihaljevi?".
)the external evidence is often decisive for NERC.In e3 the internal evidence (Dr.) represents astrong argument for a person NE, but only contex-tual external evidence (klinici/the clinic andquotes) gives the right solution.The external evidences are crucial for NERC inany language but they also have an important roleduring the system development.
They can be usefulwhen a list of names is not complete ?
an externalevidence is taking the role of an additional proof.They can also reduce the need for elaborated inter-nal evidence checking when rules are being build.The internal and external evidence is being usedby all NERC systems such as LTG (Mikheev et al1999), FASTUS (Hobbs et al 1997), Proteus(Yangarber, Grishman, 1998).3.2 Dynamic lexiconSometimes during the processing there is a needfor storing information which are relevant only fora current text/discourse/document.
Such informa-tion are usually stored in a dynamic lexicon wheretemporarily relevant information are stored andused for the processing of a current document.
Dy-12namic lexicon entries are being collected from theconfident contexts and usually are being used fortagging words which could be NEs but there is notenough external evidences for that.Dynamic lexicon could store all possible vari-ants of a NE (a person) such as the full name andfamily name including middle initial, only familyname, only name, only initials including all inflec-tional word-forms etc.
In the case of companies, itcould include the long company name, its shorterversion and/or acronym.
Distribution of acronymsshows that they frequently appear without internaland/or external evidences which are present withthe full name (e.g.
instead of the full name Investi-cijsko-komercijalna banka, in the text there is onlyBanka or only IKB).
In such cases all tokens form-ing an NE and all their combinations are stored inthe dynamic lexicon (Mikheev et al 1999:5).
Inour case it would be also Investicijsko-komercijalna, komercijalna banka, Investicijskabanka, and  also an acronym derived from the firstletters of all tokens (IKB).Dynamic lexicon are used by a numer of NERCsystems such as ones described in (Mikheev et al1998), (McDonald 1996) and (Piskorski et al2000).3.3 Global word sequence checkingThis strategy is used for solving complex ambigui-ties (Mikheev, 1999).
The initial position in thesentence is one of such ambiguous spots.
If the NEis complex e.g.
has a conjuncted structure, its solv-ing can be quite a difficult task.
The following ex-ample from the newspaper can explain this:e4: Osiguranje Zagreb i Primo?tenpotpisali su ugovor o suradnji.
(In-surance Zagreb and Primo?tencountersigned an agreement oncooperation.
)e5: Osiguranje Ivi?u i Horvatu nijeisplatilo naknadu.
(Insurance didn?tpay the benefit to Ivi?
and Horvat.
)The token (Osiguranje) which in e4 is a part of NE(Osiguranje Zagreb) is also a common noun and iscapitalized since it is in the initial sentence posi-tion.
The second NE (Primo?ten) is from the list oflocations but it could be also a part of conjunction(Osiguranje Zagreb i Osiguranje Primo?ten)which is shortened or forms a unique NE (Osigu-ranje Zagreb i Primo?ten).
In the e5 there is noambiguitiy since Ivi?u and Horvatu are person NEsand being in dative case clearly show that they donot belong to the same NE with Osiguranje (beingin nominative case).Conjunction i (?and?)
can be syntactically inter-preted in two ways: it can serve as a connector oftwo separate NEs (Pliva i INA) or can be a part ofNE (Buhi?
i sinovi; Vodoopskrba i odvodnja).
Thiscases can be solved with a strategy that presup-poses that at least there will be one unambiguousposition for the same NE in the text.
Solving the e4example could be formulated in several steps.
1)all possible subsets of expression (Osiguranje Za-greb i Primo?ten; Osiguranje Zagreb; OsiguranjePrimo?ten; Zagreb i Primo?ten; Primo?ten?
)should be stored in a dynamic lexicon; 2) if any ofthis substrings is detected in the text in an unambi-guous position:e6: Kapital Osiguranja Zagreb uve?anje tri puta.
(The capital of the In-surance Zagreb is enlarged threetimes.
)e7: Tvrtka Primo?ten d.d.
izbjeglaje ste?aj.
(The firm Primo?ten d.d.avoided the bankrupcy.
)the system can test that they are separate NEs andresolve the role of conjunction.A proper solution for categorising Primo?ten isderived from this as well, since the coordinativeconjunction i will usually connect the NEs fromthe same category (Mikheev, 1999).This strategy is used in systems by Mikheev etal.
(1999) and Wacholder (1997).3.4 One sense per discourseAmbiguous tokens, where the same string can referto a common noun in common usage or as a part ofNE, are quite common in texts (e.g.
a token Suncein initial sentence position can be a common nounbut it has been recorded that it can also be a nameof investment fund or insurance company).Since texts are meant to be understood by read-ers (even when shortening and compressing proce-dures are used by authors) it is very rare that thesame token has different meanings within the sametext.
Gale, Church and Yarowsky (1992) formed ahypothesis that ambiguous words have a strongtendency of keeping a single meaning in the same13text/discourse.
It has been experimentally provenup to 98% of cases.
Therefore, detecting at leastone unambiguous position for an ambiguous wordenables the system to successfully solve all otherambiguous positions for this word.3.5 Filtering of the false candidatesSpecific type of problem for NERC systems poseexpressions which have a structure similar to NE,but are not NEs:e8: Pripreme za Atenu 2004 pribli-?avaju se zavr?etku.
(Preparationsfor the Athens 2004 are coming tothe end.
)e9: Pogled nam se pru?ao na cijeluAtenu.
(A view to the whole Athenswas in front of us.
)In e8 string Atenu 2004 refers to the Olympicgames held in Athens 2004 and not to location NE.According to MUC specification, this should notbe marked as NE.
In e9 Atenu refers to locationand should be marked as NE.There are two possible solutions for eliminationof this cases: 1) a context should be expressiveenough that it can be covered by a special rule; 2) alist of false NE candidates i.e.
NE-like expressionswhich have to be eliminated from the further proc-essing.It is better to discard the false NE candidates atthe beginning (Karkaletis et al1999:130) becauseit reduces the need for further processing and test-ing.
The false NE candidates should not have to bedeleted from the text, a better solution is to markthem with a special tag which will be deleted justbefore output but in the same time it will signal tothe system to avoid the processing of that part oftext.Processing of false NE candidates is describedthoroughly in (Stevenson, Gaizauskas, 1999:293).4 Architecture of the systemFor developing, testing and applying our NERCsystem we were using Intex, a well known devel-opment environment for making formal descrip-tions of natural languages using FSTs and theirimmediate application on large corpora in real-time(Silberztein 2000:8).Our system was designed to allow the modularprocessing of Croatian on three levels: 1) token(single-word units) segmentation; 2) sentencesegmentation; 3) multi-word units (collocations,syntagms).
These modules were designed for thissystem but they can be used individually in anyother system for processing Croatian.Lists of personal and family names are also im-portant for this system.
We were using a list of15,000 male and female personal names accompa-nied by 56,000 family names registered in the Re-public of Croatia (Boras; Mikeli?
; Lauc 2003:224).This list was expanded to a full word-form list forevery name according to the MulTextEast specifi-cation for lexica (Erjavec et al 2003).The rules were manually developed and testedon a subcorpus of Croatian National Corpus (Tadi?,2002) which size was 60 million of tokens ofnewspaper texts.
The rules were coded as FiniteState Transducers using Intex?s graphical interface.The system (see figure 1) consists of several se-quenced modules which are applied after the to-kenizaton and sentence segmentation:1.
Lexical processing: application of lexi-cons of common words and propernames.
Unrecognized tokens are furtherprocessed with transducers which arebased on characteristic endings for MSDcategorization.2.
Rules (phase 1) which have the highestcertainty i.e.
process unambiguous textsegments are being applied after thepreprocessing stage.
In this manner alarge part of all NEs is being detectedthus giving the firm anchors for the rules(phase 2);3.
Lexicon filtering: some lexical entriesare highly ambiguous and make applica-tion of relaxed rules even more complex(e.g.
Kina in Croatian can be a commonnoun and location NE as well.
Filteringsuch highly frequent and ambiguouscommon words significantly increasesresults in the second phase.14In p u tte x tA n n o ta te dte x t 14.
Rules (phase 2): all unrecognized NEsin phase 1 (mostly because of lack ofsupportive co-text information) areprocessed with new rules which are re-laxed.
Constraints are relaxed, butthanks to filtered lexicon precision arestill rather high.Since the overall number of rules is 106 and thedescription of their precise ordering and mutualinterdependence would surpass the limitations ofthis article, we would like to exemplify the generalformat of the rules with the rule for detecting per-son NEs which include external evidence such asfunction of that person.
Since functions can appearbefore or after the person NE, this rule has beenstored as a separate local grammar which is beingcalled as needed.<?upan><predsjednik><predsjednica><ministar><ministrica><ravnatelj><ravnateljica><?ef><general><tajnik><tajnica><premijer><gradona?elnik><gradona?elnica><ravnatelj><ravnateljica><direktor><direktorica><inspektor><nadbiskup><biskup><kardinal><upravitelj><mar?al><A><savjetnik><savjetnica><pomoanik><pomoanica><glasnogovornik><glasnogovornica><urednik><urednica><zamjenik><zamjenica><diplomat><vlasnik><autor><profesor><doministar><brigadir><major><oficir><bojnik><sekretar><pater><vikar>NPgFigure 2.
Graph for functions (funkcije.grf).Beside the function name, an attribute <A> canappear on the left and NP in genitive case [NPg]can appear on the right of function name.This local grammar ([funkcije] in grey) is beingcalled in cascade from two other grammars for per-son NE detection such as:<I><I>-[O] [/O]<PRE>-funkcijeFigure 3.
Graph for functions + names., funkcije<I><I>-[O] [/O]<PRE>-Figure 4.
Graph for names + functions.In figures 3 and 4 <I> represents a personal namerecognized from the list of personal names while<PRE> represents a capitalized token.
[O] and [/O]are tags that system inserts for person NE annota-tion.
In this way potentially ambiguous NEs likePredsjednik Microsofta and Predsjednik ?ekscould be resolved since only ?eks belongs to a listof personal names.
The grammar in figure 3 canrecognize cases such as:et Hrvatskoj, isto kao i ameri?kom ministru [O]Ronaldu Brownu[/O] koji je sroprivredi Bosne, isti?e generalni direktor [O]Mijo Brajkovi?[/O].
On naglaastrojstvo, a desna ruka generalnog direktora [O]Jana Bobosikova[/O] prekju?e od godinu dana pisala nadbiskupu [O]Josipu Bozani?u[/O] upozoravaju?i galamenta Vaclava Klausa i predsjednika ?e?ke Republike [O]Vaclava Havela[/O]while the grammar in figure 4 can recognize casessuch as:Figure 1.
The general architecture of the system.N E R CP re p ro c e s s in gL e x ic a lr u le s L e x ic o nA n n o ta te dte x t 1A n n o ta te dte x t 2T o k e n iz a t io n L e x ic a lp ro c e s s in gS e n te n c es e g m e n ta t io nR u le s (1 .
P h a s e ) R u le s (2 .
P h a s e )L e x ic o nf i l te r in gF S T15sporta?a i nakon ?to su [O]Aleksandra Mindoljevi?
[/O], predsjednica ?irijaavi aktivnom politikom.
[O]Andrija Hebrang[/O], ratni ministar zdravstva,im biznisom.
Rije?
je o [O]Davoru ?ternu[/O], biv?em generalnom direktoruobode.
Me?utim, [O]Rahim Ademi[/O], general hrvatske vojske jo?
?eka odlukurak [O]Hans Dietrich Genscher[/O], biv?i njema?ki ministar vanjskih poslovaAll local grammars for detecting personal NEs arebeing called from a grammar on upper level:I_izjavioizjavio_je_II_funkcijafunkcije_II_i_II_dvotockainic_inictitule_VsI_inic_VsCarladelPontegrfI_PThe same rules applied to another genre (text-books) show a significant drop in the accuracy ofthe system.
Precision is still at 0.79 but recall is at0.47 thus resulting with F-measure at 0.59.
Themost serious drop is in personal and locationnames.
Possible explanation could be that in text-books used for testing there is a lot of unknown,possibly foreign, names but this has to be checkedin detail on more different genres.Figure 5: Graph with all person NE graphsSimilar set of rules and modular local grammarshas been developed for other NE categories.The order of applying rules (i.e.
local grammars)plays important role in our NERC system.
Thereare at least two reasons for that.1) Certain rule can be valid for a NE which canbe part of a larger NE.
Rules for organization NEdetection should be applied prior to rules for per-son NE detection.
In this way correct categorisa-tion is being achieved (e.g.
?uro ?akovi?
holdingd.d.
where a person NE should not be used andsubsumed under larger organization NE).
Even ifboth grammars are applied simultaneously, still theprinciple of ?longest match?
would yield the cor-rect categorisation (Poibeau, 2000).
The same or-dering should be kept in mind for other types ofNEs which could be subsumed (e.g.
dates or loca-tions within the names of streets etc.
).2) The degree of certainty is decisive for ruleordering: the most certain NEs are being processedat the beginning and thus lowers the ambiguity alsowithin the same category.5 Results and discussionOur NERC system for Croatian was tested on twotypes of texts: newspaper articles from Ve?ernji list(economy and internal affairs, 350 articles from2005-01, 137.547 tokens) and two textbooks fromthe history of arts and culture (143.919 tokens)(Makovi?, 1997; ?mega?, 1998).
The results fornewspaper texts are given in Table 1, while resultsfor textbooks are given in Table 2.F-measure of the whole system calculated as av-erage from F-measures of all categories is 0.92.Since all NE categories are not equally representedin texts, more realistic measure of system effi-ciency can be acquired by counting all NEs thatcurrent version of a system with this set of rulesshould detect and categorize in a text.
In this caseF-measure drops to 0.90 which is still very goodresult.Compared to a similar system for NERC inFrench texts (Poibeau; Kosseim 2001:148), wherealso Intex was used as a development environment,we got similar results.
System developed forFrench yielded 0.9 for informative texts and 0.5 innoninformative texts (prose).The example of the input and output from oursystem can be seen at http://hnk.ffzg.hr/nerc/.Theoretically syntactic rules in Croatian do al-low central embedding in NPs thus splitting themin two separate strings.
If we apply this rule to aNERC domain, we could think of a constructionwhich consist of function and personal name:e10: *biv?i hrvatski predsjed-nik, koji je stvorio hrvatskudr?avu, Franjo Tu?man...(*formerCroatian president, who foundeda Croatian state, Franjo Tu?-man...)16Person Organization Location Percentage Currency TimePrecision 0.95 0.93 0.98 0.99 0.99 0.94Recall 0.69 0.86 0.93 0.99 0.99 0.90F-measure 0.79 0.89 0.95 0.99 0.99 0.92Table 1: Results for newspaper articlesPerson Organization Location Percentage Currency TimePrecision 0.65 0.69 0.61 0.95 0.92 0.91Recall 0.35 0.38 0.31 0.66 0.61 0.53F-measure 0.46?
0.49 0.41 0.78 0.73 0.67Table 2: Results for textbooksIn practice constructions of this type were neverdetected even in a very large corpus (>100 Mw).This led us to a conclusion that in spite the rela-tively free word order in Croatian, for NERC sys-tems regular grammars could be sufficient insteadof stronger formalism such as context-free gram-mars.
NEs are local phenomena in sentences andare usually kept in one constituent.
It looks like thefree word order allows recombination of constitu-ents (scrambling) while withing the constituents itis not allowed and they could be locally recognizedby regular grammars.
Although context-freegrammars encompass regular ones, the develop-ment time for regular grammars, particularly ifthey are built as small-scale local grammars whichare cascaded later, is much shorter and developershave stronger control over of each module, its in-put and output.6 Future directionsAlthough it features in some areas quite promisingresults, this system if far from being complete.
Ourfuture directions could be: 1) testing the system ona whole different range of genres with possible ruleadaptation for each genre; 2) widening the list ofperson and family names to include foreign names;3) thorough analysis and typology of most typicalerrors; 4) include also other NEs classificationschemes which go beyond MUC-7 specification; 5)since this system highly depends on Intex runtimelibrary under which it has been designed, it is notpossible to distribute it as a stand-alone application.We would like to reprogram the whole set of ruleson a different platform or programming language.In this way this system can became a core of aweb-based service for NERC in Croatian which isalso one of our intentions.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by the Ministryof the Science, Education and Sports of the Repub-lic of Croatia within the project 130-1300646-0645and partially by Flemish and Croatian governmentswithin the joint CADIAL project.ReferencesAbney, Steven.
1996.
Partial Parsing via Finite-StateCascades, Journal of Natural Language Engineering2 (4):337?344.Damir Boras, Nives Mikeli?, Davor Lauc.
2003.Leksi?ka flektivna baza podataka hrvatskih imena iprezimena, Modeli znanja i obrada prirodnog jezika ?Zbornik radova, Radovi Zavoda za informacijskestudije (vol.
12):219?237.Toma?
Erjavec (ed.).
2001.
Specifications and Nota-tions for MULTEXT-East Lexicon Encoding.
EditionMultext-East/Concede Edition, March, 21, p. Avail-able at [http://nl.ijs.si/ME/ V2/msd/html/].Friburger, Nathalie; Maurel, Denis.
2004.
Finite-statetransducer cascades to extract named entities intexts, Theoretical Computer Science, 313(1):93?104.William Gale, Kenneth Church, David Yarowsky.
1992.One Sense per Discourse, Proceedings of the 4thDARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop,Harriman, NY:233?237.Maurice Gross.
1993.
Local grammars and their repre-sentation by finite automata, Data Description, Dis-17course (ed.
M. Hoey), Harper-Collins, London:26?38.Jerry R Hobbs, Douglas E. Appelt, John Bear, DavidIsrael, Megumi Kameyama, Mark Stickel, Mabry Ty-son.
1997.
FASTUS: A cascaded finite-state trans-ducer for extracting information from natural lan-guage text, Finite State Devices for Natural Lan-guage Processing, (ed.
Roche, E.; Schabes, Y.
), MITPress, Cambridge, MA:383?406.Vangelis Karkaletsis, Georgios Paliouras, GeorgiosPetasis, Natasa Manousopoulou, Constantine D.Spyropoulos.
1999.
Named-Entity Recognition fromGreek and English Texts, Journal of Intelligent andRobotic Systems, 26(2):123?135.Makovi?, Zvonko.
1997.
Vilko Gecan, Matica hrvatska,Zagreb.David McDonald.
1996.
Internal and external evidencein the identification and semantic categorization ofproper names, Corpus Processing for Lexical Acqui-sition, chapter 2, ed.
Boguraev; Pustejovsky, TheMIT Press, Cambridge, MA:21?39.Andrei Mikheev, Claire Grover,Marc Moens.
1998.Description of the LTG system used for MUC-7, Pro-ceedings of the 7th Message Understanding Confer-ence (MUC-7), Fairfax, VirginiaAndrei Mikheev, Claire Grover,Marc Moens.
1999.Named Entity Recognition without Gazetteers, Pro-ceedings of the Ninth Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Bergen:1?8.Andrei Mikheev.
1999.
A Knowledge-free Method forCapitalized Word Disambiguation, Proceedings ofthe 37th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics:159?166.Jakub Piskorski, G?nter Neumann.
2000.
An IntelligentText Extraction and Navigation System, Proceedingsof the 6th International Conference on Computer-Assisted Information Retrieval (RIAO'00), ParisThierry Poibeau.
2000.
A Corpus-based Approach toInformation Extraction, Journal of Applied SystemsStudies, 1(2):254?267.Thierry Poibeau, Leila Kosseim.
2001.
Proper NameExtraction from Non-Journalistic Texts, Computa-tional Linguistics in the Netherlands 2000: SelectedPapers from the Eleventh CLIN Meeting, W. Daele-mans, K. Sima'an, J. Veenstra, J. Zavrel (ed.
), Ro-dopi, Amsterdam:144?157.Max Silberztein.
1999.
INTEX: a Finite State Trans-ducer toolbox, Theoretical Computer Science #231:1,Elsevier ScienceMax Silberztein.
2000.
INTEX Manual.
ASSTRIL, ParisMark Stevenson, Robert Gaizauskas.
1999.
Using Cor-pus-derived Name Lists for Named Entity Recogni-tion, Proceedings of the sixth conference on Appliednatural language processing, Seattle, Washington,Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc.:290?295.Marko Tadi?.
2002.
Building the Croatian NationalCorpus.
LREC2002 Proceedings, Las Palmas,ELRA, Pariz-Las Palmas, Vol.
II:441-446.Nina Wacholder, Yael Ravin, Misook Choi.
1997.
Dis-ambiguation of Proper Names in Text, Proceedingsof the Fifth Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing:202?208.Roman Yangarber, Ralph Grishman.
1998.
NYU: De-scription of the Proteus/PET system as used forMUC-7 ST, Proceedings of the 7th Message Under-standing Conference (MUC-7), Fairfax, Virginia.
?mega?, Viktor.
1998.
Be?ka moderna, Matica hrvat-ska, Zagreb.18
