BioNLP 2007: Biological, translational, and clinical language processing, pages 197?198,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsMarking Time in Developmental BiologyGail Sinclair and Bonnie WebberSchool of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh EH8 9LWc.g.sinclair@ed.ac.uk, bonnie@inf.ed.ac.uk1 IntroductionIn developmental biology, to support reasoningabout cause and effect, it is critical to link geneticpathways with processes at the cellular and tissuelevel that take place beforehand, simultaneously orsubsequently.
While researchers have worked on re-solving with respect to absolute time, events men-tioned in medical texts such as clinical narratives(e.g.
Zhou et al 2006), events in developmental bi-ology are primarily resolved relative to other events.In this regard, I am developing a system to extractand time-stamp event sentences in articles on devel-opmental biology, looking beyond the sentence thatdescribes the event and considering ranges of timesrather than just single timestamps.I started by creating four gold standard corporafor documents, event sentences, entities and times-tamped events (for future public release).
Thesedatasets are being used to develop an automatedpipeline to (1) retrieve relevant documents; (2) iden-tify sentences within the documents that describe de-velopmental events; and (3) associate these eventswith the developmental stage(s) that the article linksthem with or they are known to be linked withthrough prior knowledge.Different types of evidence are used in each step.For determining the relevant developmental stage(s),the text surrounding an event-containing sentence isan efficient source of temporal grounding due of itsimmediate accessibility.
However, this does not al-ways yield the correct stage and other sources needto be used.
Information within the sentence, suchas the entities under discussion, can also be usedto help with temporal grounding using mined back-ground knowledge about the period of existence ofan entity.2 Creation of DatasetsIn creating the four new data sets mentioned above,I annotated 1200 documents according to relevanceto murine kidney development.
From 5 relevantdocuments, 1200 sentences were annotated as towhether they contained an event description.
(Twoannotators - one biologist, one computer scientist -achieved an inter-annotator agreement kappa scoreof 95%.)
A sentence is considered a positive one ifit contains a description of the following event types:?
molecular expression within tissue/during pro-cess/at stage X (molecular event)?
tissue process, i.e.
what forms from what (tis-sue event)?
requirement of a molecule for a process(molecular or tissue event)?
abnormality in a process/tissue/stage (molecu-lar or tissue event)?
negation of the above e.g.
was not expressed,did not form, formed normally (molecular ortissue event).A negative sentence is one that does not fall under atleast one of the above categories.In addition, 6 entities (tissue, process, species,stage, molecule and event verb) were annotated in1800 sentences (1200 described above + 600 from197relevant documents not yet annotated at sentencelevel) and 347 entity-annotated positive event sen-tences were marked with their associated develop-mental stage.Example: At E11, the integrin ?8 subunit was ex-pressed throughout the mesenchyme of the nephro-genic cord.
Entities annotated: E11(stage), integrin?8 (molecule), expressed (event verb), mesenchymeof the nephrogenic cord (tissue).3 Evidence for Temporal ResolutionDevelopmental biology is not as concerned with theabsolute time of events in a specific embryo as itis with events that generally happen under the samecircumstances in developmental time.
These are re-ferred to with respect to stages from conception tobirth.
The evidence sufficient to resolve the devel-opmental stage of an event sentence can come frommany places.
The two significant areas of evidenceare local context (i.e.
surrounding text) and prior(i.e.
background) knowledge.Local context can further be classified as:?
explicit: evidence of stage is mentioned withincurrent (event) sentence,?
previous sentence: evidence is found in sen-tence immediately previous to current sentence,?
following sentence: evidence is found in sen-tence immediately following current sentence,?
current paragraph: evidence is found in para-graph containing current sentence but not in ad-jacent sentences,?
referenced to figure: evidence is found in fig-ure legend referenced in current sentence.Evidence Source # Event SentencesExplicitly Stated 48Immed Prev Sentence 7Following Sentence 1Current Paragraph 19Referenced Figure Legend 38Within Figure Legend 43Time Irrelevant 65Prior Knowledge 126Total 347When local context does not provide evidence, priorknowledge can be used about when entities men-tioned within the sentence normally appear withindevelopment.
Event sentences can also be irrel-evant of individual time ranges and apply to thewhole of development.
The table above shows thefrequency with which each evidence type is used toresolve developmental stage.4 ExperimentsEvent sentence retrieval experiments (using separatetraining and test data) resulted in a F-score of 72.3%and 86.6% for Naive Bayes and rule-based classifi-cation approaches respectively (relying upon perfectentity recognition).
A baseline method (classifyingall sentences as positive) achieves 58.4% F-score.Experiments were also carried out to assign devel-opmental stage to sentences already known to con-tain events.
The baseline approach is to use the lastmentioned stage in the text and any methods devel-oped should score higher than this baseline.
Ruleswere developed to assign developmental stage basedon the knowledge gained from two fifths of the in-vestigations into temporal evidence described above.The other three fifths were annotated after the ruleshad been defined.
Precision scores for all 347 sen-tences can be seen in the following table with theNaive method representing the baseline and Localrepresenting the use of rules.Paper Naive Prec.
Local Prec.1 75.7 97.32 89.6 90.93 89.1 1004 95.6 92.35 95.5 91.3Average 89.1 94.5Experiments are currently ongoing into exploitingthe use of background knowledge of the develop-mental processes and tissues mentioned within eventdescriptions in order to assign developmental stageto events sentences not already assigned by the lo-cal context rules and to increase confidence in thosestages already assigned.ReferencesL.
Zhou, G. B. Melton, S. Parsons and G Hripcsak, A tempo-ral constraint structure for extracting temporal information fromclinical narrative, J Biomed Inf 39(4), Aug 2006, 424-439198
