Proceedings of the Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage Data (LaTeCH 2007), pages 33?40,Prague, 28 June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Latin Dependency Treebank in a Cultural Heritage Digital LibraryDavid BammanThe Perseus ProjectTufts UniversityMedford, MAdavid.bamman@tufts.eduGregory CraneThe Perseus ProjectTufts UniversityMedford, MAgregory.crane@tufts.eduAbstractThis paper describes the mutually benefi-cial relationship between a cultural heritagedigital library and a historical treebank: anestablished digital library can provide theresources and structure necessary for effi-ciently building a treebank, while a tree-bank, as a language resource, is a valuabletool for audiences traditionally served bysuch libraries.1 IntroductionThe composition of historical treebanks is funda-mentally different from that of modern ones.
Whilemodern treebanks are generally comprised of news-paper articles,1 historical treebanks are built fromtexts that have been the focus of study for centuries,if not millennia.
The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Cor-pus of Middle English (Kroch and Taylor, 2000),for example, includes Chaucer?s 14th-century Par-son?s Tale, while the York Poetry Corpus (Pintzukand Leendert, 2001) includes the entire text of Be-owulf.
The scholarship that has attended these textssince their writing has produced a wealth of contex-tual materials, including commentaries, translations,and linguistic resources.1To name just three, the Penn Treebank (Marcus et al, 1994)is comprised of texts from the Wall Street Journal; the Ger-man TIGER Treebank (Brants et al, 2002) is built from textstaken from the Frankfurter Rundschau; and the Prague De-pendency Treebank (Hajic?, 1998) includes articles from sev-eral daily newspapers (Lidove?
noviny and Mlada?
fronta Dnes), abusiness magazine (C?eskomoravsky?
Profit) and a scientific jour-nal (Vesm?
?r).For the past twenty years, the Perseus digital li-brary (Crane, 1987; Crane et al, 2001) has collectedmaterials of this sort to create an open reading envi-ronment for the study of Classical texts.
This envi-ronment presents the Greek or Latin source text andcontextualizes it with secondary publications (e.g.,translations, commentaries, references in dictionar-ies), along with a morphological analysis of everyword in the text and variant manuscript readings aswell (when available).We have recently begun work on syntactically an-notating the texts in our collection to create a LatinDependency Treebank.
In the course of developingthis treebank, the resources already invested in thedigital library have been crucial: the digital libraryprovides a modular structure on which to build addi-tional services, contains a large corpus of Classicalsource texts, and provides a wealth of contextual in-formation for annotators who are non-native speak-ers of the language.In this the digital library has had a profound im-pact on the creation of our treebank, but the influ-ence goes both ways.
The digital library is a heav-ily trafficked website with a wide range of users, in-cluding professional scholars, students and hobby-ists.
By incorporating the treebank as a languageresource into this digital library, we have the poten-tial to introduce a fundamental NLP tool to an audi-ence outside the traditional disciplines of computerscience or computational linguistics that would nor-mally use it.
Students of the language can profitfrom the syntactic information encoded in a tree-bank, while traditional scholars can benefit from thetextual searching it makes possible as well.33Figure 1: A screenshot of Vergil?s Aeneid from the Perseus digital library.2 The Perseus Digital LibraryFigure 1 shows a screenshot from our digital library.In this view, the reader is looking at the first sevenlines of Vergil?s Aeneid.
The source text is providedin the middle, with contextualizing information fill-ing the right column.
This information includes:?
Translations.
Here two English translationsare provided, one by the 17th-century Englishpoet John Dryden and a more modern one byTheodore Williams.?
Commentaries.
Two commentaries are alsoprovided, one in Latin by the Roman grammar-ian Servius, and one in English by the 19th-century scholar John Conington.?
Citations in reference works.
Classical refer-ence works such as grammars and lexica of-ten cite particular passages in literary works asexamples of use.
Here, all of the citations toany word or phrase in these seven lines are pre-sented at the right.Additionally, every word in the source text islinked to its morphological analysis, which listsevery lemma and morphological feature associatedwith that particular word form.
Here the reader hasclicked on arma in the source text.
This tool revealsthat the word can be derived from two lemmas (theverb armo and the noun arma), and gives a full mor-phological analysis for each.
A recommender sys-tem automatically selects the most probable analysisfor a word given its surrounding context, and userscan also vote for the form they think is correct.23 Latin Dependency TreebankNow in version 1.3, the Latin Dependency Treebankis comprised of excerpts from four texts: Cicero?sOratio in Catilinam, Caesar?s Commentarii de BelloGallico, Vergil?s Aeneid and Jerome?s Vulgate.Since Latin has a highly flexible word order, wehave based our annotation style on the dependencygrammar used by the Prague Dependency Tree-bank (PDT) (Hajic?, 1998) for Czech (another non-projective language) while tailoring it for Latin via2These user contributions have the potential to significantlyimprove the morphological tagging of these texts: any singleuser vote assigns the correct morphological analysis to a word89% of the time, while the recommender system does so withan accuracy of 76% (Crane et al, 2006).34Date Author Words63 BCE Cicero 1,18951 BCE Caesar 1,48619 BCE Vergil 2,647405 CE Jerome 8,382Total: 13,683Table 1: Treebank composition by author.the grammar of Pinkster (1990).3In addition to the index of its syntactic head andthe type of relation to it, each word in the treebankis also annotated with the lemma from which it isinflected and its morphological code.
We plan to re-lease the treebank incrementally with each new ma-jor textual addition (so that version 1.4, for instance,will include the treebank of 1.3 plus Sallust?s BellumCatilinae, the text currently in production).4 The Influence of a Digital LibraryA cultural heritage digital library has provided a fer-tile ground for our historical treebank in two funda-mental ways: by providing a structure on which tobuild new services and by providing reading supportto expedite the process of annotation.4.1 StructureBy anchoring the treebank in a cultural heritage dig-ital library, we are able to take advantage of a struc-tured reading environment with canonical standardsfor the presentation of text and a large body of dig-itized resources, which include XML source texts,morphological analyzers, machine-readable dictio-naries, and an online user interface.Texts.
Our digital library contains 3.4 millionwords of Latin source texts (along with 4.9 mil-lion words of Greek).
The texts are all public-domain materials that have been scanned, OCR?dand formatted into TEI-compliant XML.
The valueof this prior labor is twofold: most immediately,the existence of clean, digital editions of thesetexts has saved us a considerable amount of timeand resources, as we would otherwise have to3We are also collaborating with other Latin treebanks (no-tably the Index Thomisticus on the works of Thomas Aquinas)to create a common set of annotation guidelines to be used as astandard for Latin of any period (Bamman et al, 2007).create them before annotating them syntactically;but their encoding as repurposeable XML docu-ments in a larger library also allows us to referto them under standardized citations.
The pas-sage of Vergil displayed in Figure 1 is not simplya string of unstructured text; it is a subdocument(Book=1:card=1) that is itself part of a larger doc-ument object (Perseus:text:1999.02.0055), with sis-ters (Book=1:card=8) and children of its own (e.g.,line=4).
This XML structure allows us to situate anygiven treebank sentence within its larger context.Morphological Analysis.
As a highly inflectedlanguage, Latin has an intricate morphological sys-tem, in which a full morphological analysis is theproduct of nine features: part of speech, person,number, tense, mood, voice, gender, case and de-gree.
Our digital library has included a morphologi-cal analyzer from its beginning.
This resource mapsan inflected form of a word (such as arma above)to all of the possible analyses for all of the dictio-nary entries associated with it.
In addition to provid-ing a common morphological standard, this mappinggreatly helps to constrain the problem of morpho-logical tagging (selecting the correct form from allpossible forms), since a statistical tagger only needsto consider the morphological analyses licensed bythe inflection rather than all possible combinations.User interface.
The user interface of our libraryis designed to be modular, since different texts havedifferent contextual resources associated with them(while some have translations, others may havecommentaries).
This modularity allows us to easilyintroduce new features, since the underlying archi-tecture of the page doesn?t change ?
a new featurecan simply be added.Figure 2 presents a screenshot of the digital li-brary with an annotation tool built into the inter-face.
In the widget on the right, the source text inview (the first chunk of Tacitus?
Annales) has beenautomatically segmented into sentences; an annota-tor can click on any sentence to assign it a syntac-tic annotation.
Here the user has clicked on the firstsentence (Vrbem Romam a principio reges habuere);this action brings up an annotation screen in whicha partial automatic parse is provided, along with themost likely morphological analysis for each word.The annotator can then correct this automatic output35Figure 2: A screenshot of Tacitus?
Annales from the Perseus digital library.and move on to the next segmented sentence, withall of the contextual resources still in view.4.2 Reading supportModern treebanks also differ from historical ones inthe fluency of their annotators.
The efficient anno-tation of historical languages is hindered by the factthat no native speakers exist, and this is especiallytrue of Latin, a difficult language with a high de-gree of non-projectivity.
While the Penn Treebankcan report a productivity rate of between 750 and1000 words per hour for their annotators after fourmonths of training (Taylor et al, 2003) and the PennChinese treebank can report a rate of 240-480 wordsper hour (Chiou et al, 2001), our annotation speedsare significantly slower, ranging from 90 words perhour to 281.
Our best approach for Latin is to de-velop strategies that can speed up the annotation pro-cess, and here the resources found in a digital libraryare crucial.
There are three varieties of contextualresources in our digital library that aid in the un-derstanding of a text: translations, commentaries,and dictionaries.
These resources shed light on atext, from the level of sentences to that of individualwords.Translations.
Translations provide reading sup-port on a large scale: while loose translations maynot be able to inform readers about the meaning andsyntactic role of any single word, they do providea broad description of the action taking place, andthis can often help to establish the semantic struc-ture of the sentence ?
who did what to whom, andhow.
In a language with a free word order (and withpoetry especially), this kind of high-level structurecan be important for establishing a quick initial un-derstanding of the sentence before narrowing downto individual syntactic roles.Commentaries.
Classical commentaries provideinformation about the specific use of individ-ual words, often noting morphological information(such as case) for ambiguous words or giving ex-planatory information for unusual structures.
Thisinformation often comes at crucial decision points36in the annotation process, and represents judgmentsby authorities in the field with expertise in that par-ticular text.Figure 3: An excerpt from Conington?s commentaryon Vergil?s Aeneid (Conington, 1876), here referringto Book 1, lines 4 and 5.Machine-Readable Dictionaries.
In addition toproviding lists of stems for morphological analyzers,machine-readable dictionaries also provide valuablereading support for the process of lemma selection.Every available morphological analysis for a word ispaired with the word stem (a lemma) from which it isderived, but analyses are often ambiguous betweendifferent lemmas.
The extremely common form est,for example, is a third person singular present in-dicative active verb, but can be inflected from twodifferent lemmas: the verb sum (to be) and the verbedo (to eat).
In this case, we can use the text alreadytagged to suggest a more probable form (sum ap-pears much more frequently and is therefore the like-lier candidate), but in less dominant cases, we canuse the dictionary: since the word stems involvedin morphological analysis have been derived fromthe dictionary lemmas, we can map each analysisto a dictionary definition, so that, for instance, if anannotator is unfamiliar with the distinction betweenthe lemmas occido1 (to strike down) and occido2 (tofall), their respective definitions can clarify it.Machine-readable dictionaries, however, are alsoa valuable annotation resource in that they often pro-vide exemplary syntactic information as part of theirdefinitions.
Consider, for example, the followingline from Book 6, line 2 of Vergil?s Aeneid: et tan-dem Euboicis Cumarum adlabitur oris (?and at lastit glides to the Euboean shores of Cumae?).
Thenoun oris (shores) here is technically ambiguous,and can be derived from a single lemma (ora) as anoun in either the dative or ablative case.
The dic-tionary definition of allabor (to glide), however, dis-ambiguates this for us, since it notes that the verb isoften constructed with either the dative or the ac-cusative case.Figure 4: Definition of allabor (the dictionary entryfor adlabitur) from Lewis and Short (1879).Every word in our digital library is linked to a listof its possible morphological analyses, and each ofthose analyses is linked to its respective dictionaryentry.
The place of a treebank in a digital libraryallows for this tight level of integration.5 The Impact of a Historical TreebankThe traffic in our library currently exceeds 10 mil-lion page views by 400,000 distinct users per month(as approximated by unique IP addresses).
Theseusers are not computational linguists or computerscientists who would typically make use of a tree-bank; they are a mix of Classical scholars, stu-dents, and amateurs.
These different audiences haveequally different uses for a large corpus of syntacti-cally annotated sentences: for one group it can pro-vide additional reading support, and for the other ascholarly resource to be queried.5.1 Treebank as Reading SupportOur digital library is predominantly a reading en-vironment: source texts in Greek and Latin arepresented with attendant materials to help facilitatetheir understanding.
The broadest of these materialsare translations, which present sentence-level equiv-alents of the original; commentaries provide a moredetailed analysis of individual words and phrases.
A37treebank has the potential to be a valuable contex-tual resource by providing syntactic information forevery word in a sentence, not simply those chosenby a commentator for discussion.5.2 Treebank as a Scholarly ResourceFor Classical scholars, a treebank can also be usedas a scholarly resource.
Not all Classicists are pro-grammers, however, and many of those who wouldlike to use such a resource would profit little froman XML source file.
We have already released ver-sion 1.3 of the Latin Dependency Treebank in itsXML source, but we also plan to incorporate it intothe digital library as an object to be queried.
Thiswill yield a powerful range of search options, in-cluding lemmatized and morpho-syntactic search-ing, and will be especially valuable for research in-volving lexicography and semantic classification.Lemmatized searching.
The ability to conduct alemma-based textual search has long been a desider-atum in Classics,4 where any given Latin word formhas 3.1 possible analyses on average.5 Locating allinflections of edo (to eat) in the texts of Caesar, forexample, would involve two things:1.
Searching for all possible inflections of the rootword.
This amounts to 202 different wordforms attested in our texts (including com-pounds with enclitics).2.
Eliminating all results that are homonyms de-rived from a different lemma.
Since several in-flections of edo are homonyms with inflectionsof the far more common sum (to be), manyof the found results will be false positives andhave to be discarded.This is a laborious process and, as such, is rarelyundertaken by Classical scholars: the lack of sucha resource has constrained the set of questions we4Both the Perseus Project and the Thesaurus Linguae Grae-cae (http://www.tlg.uci.edu) allow users to search for all in-flected forms of a lemma in their texts, but neither filters resultsthat are homonyms derived from different lemmas.5Based on the average number of lemma + morphologycombinations for all unique word tokens in our 3.4 million wordcorpus.
The word form amor, for example, has 3 analyses: asa first-person singular present indicative passive verb derivedfrom the lemma amo (to love) and as either a nominative orvocative masculine singular noun derived from amor (love).can ask about a text.
Since a treebank encodes eachword?s lemma in addition to its morphological andsyntactic analysis, this information is now free forthe taking.Morpho-syntactic searching.
A treebank?s majorcontribution to scholarship is that it encodes thesyntax of a sentence, along with a morphologicalanalysis of each word.
These two together can becombined into elaborate searches.
Treebanks allowscholars to find all instances of any particular con-struction.
For example:?
When the conjunction cum is the head of a sub-ordinate clause whose verb is indicative, it isoften recognized as a temporal clause, qualify-ing the time of the main clause?s action;?
When that verb is subjunctive, however, theclause retains a different meaning, as either cir-cumstantial, causal, or adversative.These different clause types can be found byquerying the treebank: in the first case, by search-ing for indicative verbs that syntactically depend oncum; in the second, for subjunctive verbs that de-pend on it.
In version 1.3 of the Latin DependencyTreebank, cum is the head of a subordinate clause38 times: in 7 of these clauses an indicative verb de-pends on it, while in 31 of them a subjunctive onedoes.
This type of searching allows us to gather sta-tistical data while also locating all instances for fur-ther qualitative analysis.6Lexicography.
Searching for a combination oflemma and morpho-syntactic information can yieldpowerful results, which we can illustrate with aquestion from Latin lexicography: how does themeaning of a word change across authors and overtime?
If we take a single verb ?
libero (to free, lib-erate) ?
we can chart its use in various authors byasking a more specific question: what do differentLatin authors want to be liberated from?
We canimagine that an orator of the republic has little needto speak of liberation from eternal death, while anapostolic father is just as unlikely to speak of beingfreed from another?s monetary debt.6For the importance of a treebank in expediting morpho-syntactic research in Latin rhetoric and historical linguistics, seeBamman and Crane (2006).38We can answer this more general question bytransforming it into a syntactic one: what are themost common complements of the lemma libero thatare expressed in oblique cases (e.g., ablative, geni-tive, etc.)
or as prepositional phrases?
In a small testof 100 instances of the lemma in Cicero and Jerome,we find an interesting answer, presented in Table 2.Cicero Jeromepericulo 14 manu 22metu 8 morte 3cura 6 ore 3aere 3 latronibus 2scelere 3 inimico 2suspicione 3 bello 2Table 2: Count of objects liberated from in Ciceroand Jerome that occur with frequency greater than 1in a corpus of 100 sentences from each author con-taining any inflected form of the verb libero.The most common entities that Cicero speaksof being liberated from clearly reflect the cares ofan orator of the republic: periculo (danger), metu(fear), cura (care), and aere (debt).
Jerome, how-ever, uses libero to speak of liberation from a verydifferent set of things: his actors speak of deliver-ance from manu (e.g., the hand of the Egyptians),from ore (e.g., the mouth of the lion) and frommorte (death).
A treebank encoded with lemma andmorpho-syntactic information lets us quantify thesetypical arguments and thereby identify the use of theword at any given time.Named entity labeling.
Our treebank?s place ina digital library also means that complex searchescan draw on the resources that already lie therein.Two of our major reference works include Smith?sDictionary of Greek and Roman Geography (1854),which contains 11,564 place names, and Smith?sDictionary of Greek and Roman Biography andMythology (1873), which contains 20,336 personalnames.
By mapping the lemmas in our treebank tothe entries in these dictionaries, we can determineeach lemma?s broad semantic class.
After supple-menting the Classical Dictionary with names fromthe Vulgate, we find that the most common peoplein the treebank are Iesus, Aeneas, Caesar, Catilina,Satanas, Sibylla, Phoebus, Misenus and Iohannes;the most common place names are Gallia, Babylon,Troia, Hierusalem, Avernus and Sardis.One use of such classification is to search forverbs that are typically found with sentient agents.We can find this by simply searching the treebankfor all active verbs with subjects known to be people(i.e., subjects whose lemmas can be mapped to anentry in Smith?s Dictionary).
An excerpt of the listthat results is given in Table 3.mitto to sendiubeo to orderduco to leadimpono to placeamo to loveincipio to begincondo to hideTable 3: Common verbs with people as subjects inthe Latin Dependency Treebank 1.3.Aside from its intrinsic value of providing a cata-logue of such verbs, a list like this is also useful forclassifying common nouns: if a verb is frequentlyfound with a person as its subject, all of its sub-jects in general will likely be sentient as well.
Table4 presents a complete list of subjects of the activevoice of the verb mitto (to send) as attested in ourtreebank.angelus angelCaesar Caesardeus Goddiabolus devilRemi Gallic tribeserpens serpentficus fig treeTable 4: Subjects of active mitto in the Latin Depen-dency Treebank 1.3.Only two of these subjects are proper names (Cae-sar and Remi) that can be found in Smith?s Dictio-nary, but almost all of these nouns clearly belongto the same semantic class ?
angelus, deus, diabo-lus and serpens (at least in this text) are entities withcognition.Inducing semantic relationships of this sort is thetypical domain of clustering techniques such as la-39tent semantic analysis (Deerwester et al, 1990), butthose methods generally work best on large corpora.By embedding this syntactic resource in a digital li-brary and linking it to external resources such as ref-erence works, we can find similar semantic relation-ships with a much smaller corpus.6 ConclusionTreebanks already fill a niche in the NLP communityby providing valuable datasets for automatic pro-cesses such as parsing and grammar induction.
Theirutility, however, does not end there.
The linguis-tic information that treebanks encode is of value to awide range of potential users, including professionalscholars, students and amateurs, and we must en-courage the use of these resources by making themavailable to such a diverse community.
The digitallibrary described in this paper has proved to be cru-cial for the development and deployment of our tree-bank: since the natural intuitions of native speakersare hard to come by for historical languagues, it is allthe more important to leverage the cultural heritageresources we already have.7 AcknowledgmentsGrants from the Digital Library Initiative Phrase 2(IIS-9817484) and the National Science Foundation(BCS-0616521) provided support for this work.ReferencesDavid Bamman and Gregory Crane.
2006.
The designand use of a Latin dependency treebank.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth Workshop on Treebanks and LinguisticTheories (TLT2006), pages 67?78.David Bamman, Marco Passarotti, Gregory Crane, andSavina Raynaud.
2007.
Guidelines for the syntacticannotation of Latin treebanks, version 1.3.
Technicalreport, Tufts Digital Library, Medford.Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Silvia Hansen, WolfgangLezius, and George Smith.
2002.
The TIGER tree-bank.
In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Tree-banks and Linguistic Theories, pages 24?41, Sozopol.Fu-Dong Chiou, David Chiang, and Martha Palmer.2001.
Facilitating treebank annotation using a statis-tical parser.
In Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Human Language Technology ResearchHLT ?01, pages 1?4.John Conington, editor.
1876.
P. Vergili Maronis Opera.The Works of Virgil, with Commentary.
Whittaker andCo, London.Gregory Crane, Robert F. Chavez, Anne Mahoney,Thomas L. Milbank, Jeffrey A. Rydberg-Cox,David A. Smith, and Clifford E. Wulfman.
2001.Drudgery and deep thought: Designing digital li-braries for the humanities.
Communications of theACM, 44(5):34?40.Gregory Crane, David Bamman, Lisa Cerrato, AlisonJones, David M. Mimno, Adrian Packel, David Scul-ley, and Gabriel Weaver.
2006.
Beyond digital in-cunabula: Modeling the next generation of digital li-braries.
In ECDL 2006, pages 353?366.Gregory Crane.
1987.
From the old to the new: Integrat-ing hypertext into traditional scholarship.
In Hyper-text ?87: Proceedings of the 1st ACM conference onHypertext, pages 51?56.
ACM Press.Scott C. Deerwester, Susan T. Dumais, Thomas K. Lan-dauer, George W. Furnas, and Richard A. Harshman.1990.
Indexing by latent semantic analysis.
Jour-nal of the American Society of Information Science,41(6):391?407.Jan Hajic?.
1998.
Building a syntactically annotatedcorpus: The Prague Dependency Treebank.
In EvaHajic?ova?, editor, Issues of Valency and Meaning.Studies in Honor of Jarmila Panevova?, pages 12?19.Prague Karolinum, Charles University Press.A.
Kroch and A. Taylor.
2000.
Penn-HelsinkiParsed Corpus of Middle English, second edi-tion.
http://www.ling.upenn.edu/hist-corpora/ppcme2-release-2/.Charles T. Lewis and Charles Short, editors.
1879.
ALatin Dictionary.
Clarendon Press, Oxford.Mitchell P. Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, and Mary AnnMarcinkiewicz.
1994.
Building a large annotated cor-pus of English: The Penn Treebank.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(2):313?330.Harm Pinkster.
1990.
Latin Syntax and Semantics.
Rout-ledge, London.Susan Pintzuk and Plug Leendert.
2001.
York-HelsinkiParsed Corpus of Old English Poetry.William Smith.
1854.
A Dictionary of Greek and RomanGeography.
Walton and Maberly, London.William Smith.
1873.
A Dictionary of Greek and RomanBiography and Mythology.
Spottiswoode, London.Ann Taylor, Mitchell Marcus, and Beatrice Santorini.2003.
The Penn Treebank: An overview.
In AnneAbeille?, editor, Treebanks: Building and Using ParsedCorpora, pages 5?22.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.40
