Proceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 1?8,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Corpus-based Analysis of Geometric Constraints on ProjectivePrepositionsChristian HyingIMS, Universita?t StuttgartAzenbergstr.
1270174 StuttgartGermanychristian.hying@ims.uni-stuttgart.deAbstractThis paper presents a corpus-based methodfor automatic evaluation of geometric con-straints on projective prepositions.
Themethod is used to find an appropriatemodel of geometric constraints for a two-dimensional domain.
Two simple modelsare evaluated against the uses of projectiveprepositions in a corpus of natural languagedialogues to find the best parameters of thesemodels.
Both models cover more than 96%of the data correctly.
An extra treatment ofnegative uses of projective prepositions (e.g.A is not above B) improves both models get-ting close to full coverage.1 IntroductionThis paper describes an empirical approach to find-ing an appropriate model of geometric constraints ofprojective prepositions with respect to a domain thatis implicitly given by a corpus.
We examine usesof the projective prepositions above, below, to theright of, to the left of and other projective preposi-tions whose orientation is aligned with one of theformer, when they describe the location of an objectrelative to another object in two-dimensional space,see for example (1) and (2) relating to Figure 1:(1) The circle is to the right of the rectangle.
(2) The circle is not to the left of the rectangle.Henceforth, the term located object (LO) will beused to refer to the object whose location is speci-fied and the term reference object (RO) to refer tothe object relative to which the location is specified.Figure 1: Example of a spatial scene.In the examples, the located object is the circle inFigure 1 and the reference object is the rectangle.The notion projective term refers to the word of aprojective preposition that determines the direction,e.g.
the word right for the projective preposition tothe right of.
Let us call the use of the projectiveprepositions positive use when it is used in defaultcontext as in (1) and negative use when it is embed-ded under negation as in (2).Geometric constraints that are associated withprojective prepositions need to be such that they aremet by positive uses such as (1) and violated by neg-ative uses such as (2).
Given that these sentencesare appropriate uses to describe Figure 1, the spatialscene should meet the constraints that are associatedwith to the right of and violate the constraints of tothe left of.
It is obvious that this dual question of trueor false invokes the issue of vagueness: We may findutterances describing a particular spatial scene andalso their negations describing the same scene.
Forexample, the following positive use of above maybe appropriate to describe the spatial scene above ?The circle is above the rectangle ?
but also the cor-responding negative use in the sentence The circle isnot above the rectangle.We collect empirical evidence of uses of projec-tive prepositions from the HCRC Map Task corpus(Anderson et al, 1991) ?
a corpus of human-human1dialogues.
In contrast to other approaches that reportempirical studies on geometric conditions of projec-tive prepositions (Kelleher, 2003; Crawford et al,2000; Logan and Sadler, 1996; Gapp, 1995; Abella,1995) the resource used in this paper enables us tostudy their use in conversation.This paper presents a new method for automaticevaluation of geometric constraints on projectiveprepositions with corpus data.
We use this methodto study the use of projective prepositions in human-human conversations and apply it to two models ofgeometric constraints with different parameters inorder to evaluate the coverage for each parameter.A detailed analysis of incorrect cases leads us to aseparate treatment of negative uses.2 Related WorkThis section introduces two types of spatial orienta-tion relations that we are going to use as geometricconstraints for projective prepositions in Section 4.Orientation relations are defined with respect to aframe of reference that defines the actual alignmentof directions (Levinson, 2003).
The present studyis carried out under the assumption of a fixed frameof reference such that the maps that are used as spa-tial data define the reference directions for above,below, right, and left.
Although projective preposi-tions are in general sensitive to extra-geometric in-fluences, e.g.
dynamic LOs and ROs and functionalrelations between LO and RO (Coventry and Gar-rod, 2004), we do not expect that such effects play arole in the data, because the domain is static and ithardly contains any pairs of objects with a functionalrelationship.In the literature, we find two paradigms fordefining spatial orientation relations: the orthogo-nal projection paradigm and the angular deviationparadigm.
For each paradigm we review a simplemodel and define different levels of granularity.
Thelimitations of these simple models have been dis-cussed at length, and more complex models havebeen proposed (Kelleher, 2003; Schmidtke, 2001;Crawford et al, 2000; Matsakis and Wendling,1999; Fuhr et al, 1995; Abella and Kender, 1993;Wazinski, 1992).
Nonetheless, it will turn out thatRONSNENWW ESESW(a) Orthogonal pro-jection model.EWNS(b) Angular devia-tion model.Figure 2: Definition of directions.we can find for each simple model a level of granu-larity which covers more than 96% of the data.Orthogonal projection.
Orthogonal projectionmodels define conditions on intervals that arethe result of projecting two-dimensional or three-dimensional objects onto reference axes.
(Papadiasand Sellis, 1994), for example, define an orthogo-nal projection model with a horizontal and a verti-cal axis.
Objects are represented by their projectiononto these axes or, more illustrative, by boundingboxes.
A bounding box of an object is the mini-mal rectangle with vertical and horizontal sides thatcontains the object.
Lines which are defined bythe sides of the bounding box of the reference ob-ject divide the space into nine regions.
We referto the regions around the bounding box of the ref-erence object by means of the cardinal directions(N,S,E,W,NW,NE,SW,SE) as shown in Figure 2(a).Let us define two relations OV and INC for ex-pressing overlap and complete inclusion.
A regionA overlaps with a region B if and only if their in-tersection is not empty.
A region A is completelyincluded in B if and only if their intersection yieldsA:(3) OV (A,B) ?
A ?B 6= ?
(overlap)INC(A,B) ?
A ?B = A (inclusion)The spatial orientation relations between LOand RO presented below are defined in terms ofoverlap and complete inclusion of LO with thenine regions around RO defined by the model.
Weexemplify the specification for the direction northusing the auxiliary regions NHP and NXHP, whereNHP = NW?N?NE is the half-plane consisting ofall northern regions and NXHP = NHP?W ?RO?Eis the (extended) half-plane which consists of all2but the southern regions.
For each orientation wedefine different levels of granularity ?
increasingindex indicates wider interpretation.
The idea isthat relations on OP0 are as strict as possible and onOP7 as wide as possible.
On granularity level OP0,the relation north0op(LO,RO) is true if LO is com-pletely included in the N -region.
The predicate onthe next granularity level is true if LO overlaps withthe given N -region and is included in the northernhalf-plane NHP.
Granularity level OP2 only requiresinclusion in NHP.
OP3 requires overlap with NHPand inclusion in the extended half-plane NXHP.
Onlevel OP4 the relation is true if LO is included in theextended half-plane NXHP.
Relations on OP5 requireoverlap of LO with NXHP and LO must not overlapwith S. On OP6 north6op(LO,RO) is true if the LOdoes not overlap with S and on OP7 it is true if LOis not completely included in S. The same patternsapply to the relations southnop, westnop, and eastnop.OP0: north0op(LO, RO) ?
INC(LO, N)OP1: north1op(LO, RO) ?
OV (LO, N) ?
INC(LO, NHP)OP2: north2op(LO, RO) ?
INC(LO, NHP)OP3: north3op(LO, RO) ?OV (LO, NHP) ?
INC(LO, NXHP)OP4: north4op(LO, RO) ?
INC(LO, NXHP)OP5: north5op(LO, RO) ?OV (LO, NXHP) ?
INC(LO, NXHP ?
SW ?
SE)OP6: north6op(LO, RO) ?
INC(LO, NXHP ?
SW ?
SE)OP7: north7op(LO, RO) ?
OV (LO, NXHP ?
SW ?
SE)Note, that on granularity levels OP0 to OP3 oppo-site relations such as north and south are disjoint.Their extensions overlap on levels OP4 to OP7.Angular deviation.
Angular deviation models de-fine conditions on one or more angles that repre-sent how much LO deviates from a reference direc-tion from the perspective of RO.
In two-dimensionalspace there are four reference directions correspond-ing to the cardinal directions: ~N , ~S, ~E, and ~W .They are aligned with the vertical axis and the hor-izontal axis, respectively, as shown in Figure 2(b).Like the models presented in (Hernandez, 1994;Gapp, 1994) we use centroids to determine one sin-gle angle between RO and LO.
Let the function c(?
)return the centroid of its argument and let ~o be a vec-tor from the centroid of the reference object to thecentroid of the located object.
(4) ~o = ?????????
?c(RO)c(LO)The angle between two vectors ~a and ~b is repre-sented as 6 (~a,~b) and the angular deviation of ~a fromthe direction given by~b is represented as |6 (~a,~b)|.Orientation relations are defined via inequalityconditions specifying that the deviation of the an-gle ~o from the corresponding reference direction isbelow or equal to a threshold.
The threshold is de-fined as the granularity level multiplied by 10 de-grees.
We define 19 granularity levels ADn fromn=0 to n=18 according to the pattern shown in (5).The same patterns with the reference directions ~S,~W , and ~E apply to the relations southnad, westnad,and eastnad, respectively.
(5) ADn: northnad(LO, RO) ?
|6 ( ~N,~o)| ?
(n ?
10?
)Note, that opposite relations such as north andsouth are disjoint on the levels from AD0 to AD8and overlap from AD9 to AD18.3 DataThis section describes the data that is used for theanalysis of the semantics of projective prepositions.The data is an exhaustive collection of uses of pro-jective prepositions occurring in the HCRC MapTask corpus (Anderson et al, 1991) where the speak-ers describe the location of a two-dimensional ob-ject relative to another two-dimensional object.
TheHCRC Map Task corpus is a collection of route de-scription dialogues where one participant tries to ex-plain a route printed on a map to another partic-ipant.
It contains transcriptions of 128 dialogueswhich were recorded with 32 subjects.
The maps areschematic maps containing line drawings of objects,so called landmarks.
Examples of sections of themaps are shown in Section 5.
The participants can-not see each other?s maps so that the task can be ac-complished only by means of what the participantssay to one another.
The two maps that are used forone dialogue are not exactly identical because not alllandmarks have an identical counterpart on the othermap.
Therefore, the participants align their infor-mation about the maps by describing the location oflandmarks.3TERM Frequencyabove 87left 86below 77right 65underneath 52beneath 7bottom 7top 7down 5TERM Frequencyunder 5up 5west 3north 2south 2east 1upwards 1over 1Table 1: Frequency of projective terms.The present study selects those descriptions fromthe corpus that satisfy the following requirements:Requirements:(i) The description describes the location of onelandmark relative to exactly one other landmark.
(ii) The description contains a projective prepositionthat is associated with one of the four cardinaldirections from Figure 2(b).
(iii) The description does not contain any modifiers.After having removed duplicates of descriptionsoccurring in the same dialogue, the set of data con-sists of 734 different uses of projective prepositions.324 uses are filtered out by condition (iii) becausethey contain modifiers such as hedges (e.g.
just), di-rection modifiers (e.g.
straight), and distance modi-fiers (e.g.
2 cm).
The remaining set of data consistsof 410 different uses of unmodified projective prepo-sitions which further divides into 389 positive usesand 21 negative uses.
Table 1 shows all projectiveterms ordered by frequency.Spatial data.
The corpus is supplemented by elec-tronic copies of the maps that the participants haveused.
We created geometric representations of eachmap by redrawing the shape of each landmark andrepresenting it as a closed polygon at the same lo-cation as the original landmark.
All polygons areassociated with unique identifiers.
Let us define afunction polygon that yields the polygon definitionfor each landmark.
Given that l is an identifier ofa landmark and m an identifier of a map, the ex-pression polygon(l,m) returns the definition of thecorresponding polygon.Annotations.
We identify all descriptions in thecorpus that satisfy the requirements specified above.Then we mark the corresponding projective preposi-tions in the corpus and annotate them with the fol-lowing type of information:(6)2666666664TERM : Projective TermDIAL : Dialogue IdentifierMAP : Map IdentifierLO : Landmark IdentifierRO : Landmark IdentifierINT : (pos | neg)3777777775The feature TERM denotes the projective term.
Thefeature DIAL holds a symbol that uniquely identifiesthe dialogue which the corresponding utterance oc-curs in.
The feature MAP specifies the map which thecorresponding utterance describes a part of.
The fea-tures LO for located object and RO for reference ob-ject hold symbols that uniquely identify landmarks.Finally, the feature INT determines the way how tointerpret the whole feature structure.
It accepts oneof the values pos and neg.
The value pos indi-cates positive use of the projective preposition in thegiven utterance from the corpus: The feature struc-ture is interpreted as the statement that the partici-pant of dialogue DIAL who has map MAP producedutterances where the location of LO relative to RO onmap MAP can be described correctly by the preposi-tion in question.
The value neg indicates a negativeuse of the preposition: The feature structure is in-terpreted as the statement that the participant of dia-logue DIAL who has map MAP produced utteranceswhere the negation of the preposition used is appro-priate to describe the location of LO relative to ROon map MAP.
In the corpus we find cases of explicitand implicit negation.
The following two examplesshow cases of explicit negation.
(7) X is not below Y .
(8) A: Is X below Y ?B: No.In the first example, the speaker makes a statementand uses a negated prepositional phrase.
In the sec-ond example, the negation is triggered by a negativeresponse to a question.Implicit negations are triggered by rejections ofalternatives.
In the following example, participant Aasks B about the truth of alternatives.
If B choosesone alternative the others are rejected as incorrect:4(9) A: Is X above or below Y ?B: It?s above.Participant B states that the first alternative X isabove Y is correct and thereby implicitly rejects theother alternative X is below Y.4 Automatic Evaluation of GeometricConstraints on Projective PrepositionsThis section describes a method of automatic evalu-ation of geometric constraints on projective preposi-tions with respect to the data described in the previ-ous section.For each level of granularity of the spatial ori-entation relations defined in Section 2 we definea model-theoretic semantics that maps projectiveprepositions onto truth conditions that are expressedin terms of these spatial orientation relations.
In gen-eral, truth conditions determine the truth of a natu-ral language expression with respect to a particularmodel of a situation.
Applied to data used in thisstudy this means that the truth conditions determinethe applicability of projective prepositions with re-spect to a pair of landmarks that appear on the samemap.Semantics.
For each projective preposition wedefine as many meanings as we have definedlevels of granularity of spatial orientation relationsin Section 2.
We define a semantics on featurestructure representations (6).
Given the model?
and the granularity level n we map a featurestructure f onto the truth condition shown in (a) iff.INT=pos and onto (b) otherwise:Let f be a feature structure of type (6),?lo = polygon(f.LO, f.MAP ), and?ro = polygon(f.RO, f.MAP )), then(a) ?f.TERM?n?
(?lo, ?ro) if f.INT=pos;(b) ??f.TERM?n?
(?lo, ?ro) if f.INT=neg.As said above, the function polygon(?, ?)
yields ageometric representation of the landmark specifiedby a landmark identifer and a map identifier.
Theterm ?f.TERM?n?
denotes the mapping of a projec-tive term from Table 1 onto a spatial relation with theaccount ?
and the granularity level n. For example,the projective terms above, top, up, upwards, over,level +pos -pos +neg -neg corrOP0 79 310 21 0 100OP1 249 140 21 0 270OP2 346 43 19 2 365OP3 376 13 16 5 392OP4 385 4 11 10 396OP5 386 3 7 14 393OP6 387 2 2 19 389OP7 389 0 0 21 389Table 2: Results of the orthogonal projection mod-els.and north are all mapped onto northn?-relations.1 Forexample, if we evaluate the account using orthog-onal projection and granularity level 0 the featurestructure shown in (10) is mapped onto the formula?north0op(?1, ?2) where ?1 and ?2 are the polygonsdetermined by LO and RO, respectively.
(10)2666666664TERM = aboveDIAL = d0MAP = m2fLO = m2 manned fortRO = m2 rapidsINT = neg3777777775Automatic evaluation.
We evaluate a semanticsof projective prepositions by automatically comput-ing truth conditions for each feature structure in thedata and evaluating it with the corresponding geo-metric representations of RO and LO.
If the truthvalue is true and the feature structure specifies pos-itive use (i.e.
INT = pos), then in this case thesemantics is correct.
Likewise, if the truth valueis false and the data specifies negative use (INT =neg) the semantics is correct.
In all other casesthere is a mismatch between the semantics and thefeature structure, so that the corresponding use ofa projective preposition provides negative empiricalevidence against the semantics.5 Results and DiscussionThe results of the evaluation are shown in Table 2and Table 3.
It comprises the evaluation of 27 se-mantic accounts corresponding to 8 levels of gran-ularity of the orthogonal projection model (OP0 to1(O?Keefe, 1996) suggests that distinct projective preposi-tions can be associated with different levels of granularity, forexample, above and up.
For the present study the data is toosparse to compare such differences.5level +pos -pos +neg -neg corrAD0 0 389 21 0 21AD1 116 273 21 0 137AD2 179 210 21 0 200AD3 250 139 21 0 271AD4 291 98 21 0 312AD5 320 69 21 0 341AD6 347 42 20 1 367AD7 370 19 18 3 388AD8 382 7 17 4 399AD9 385 4 14 7 399AD10 386 3 12 9 398AD11 386 3 10 11 396AD12 386 3 7 14 393AD13 386 3 5 16 391AD14 387 2 5 16 392AD15 388 1 4 17 392AD16 388 1 3 18 391AD17 388 1 1 20 389AD18 389 0 0 21 389Table 3: Results of the angular deviation models.OP7) and 19 levels of granularity of the angulardeviation model with thresholds from 0?
(AD0) to180?
(AD18).
The first column specifies the gran-ularity level used.
The evaluation of positive usesof projective prepositions is listed in the second andthird column, the results for negative uses in thefourth and fifth column.
The columns +pos and+neg report the number of correct cases in whichthe truth conditions are consistent with the value ofthe INT feature.
The number of all correct cases isthe sum of +pos and +neg and is printed in the lastcolumn with the label corr.
The remaining columns-pos and -neg report incorrect truth conditions forpositive and negative uses, respectively.Orthogonal projection.
Over all orthogonal pro-jection models OP4 (included in extended half-plane) correctly covers a maximum number of 396cases (96.6%).For a more detailed analysis aiming at full cover-age we take a closer look at the errors: there are 4positive uses for which OP4 provides an incorrectsemantics.
The corpus reveals that three of theseuses are not covered by OP4 because the speakersconfused left and right.
This confusion is apparenteither because it is corrected by the speaker at a laterpoint in the dialogue or because the use is obviouslywrong.
The remaining case is given by the followingpart of the corpus relating to Figure 3:(11) dialogue q4ec3, utterance 174fFigure 3: Pebbled shore, crane bay, and boat house.Figure 4: Disused warehouse and giraffes.G: have you got anything below pebbledshoreF: washed stones and flag ship ... and bayNote, that Figure 3 does not display the landmarkswashed stones and flag ship.
The participant F saysthat crane bay is below pebbled shore.
This caseis not captured by OP4 but by OP5 (overlap withextended half-plane).All negative uses are correctly rejected by OP0and OP1.
The next level OP2 (i.e.
completely in-cluded in half-plane) does not reject the followingtwo cases:(12) dialogue q4nc2, utterance 264fG: i don?t have a disused warehouse onmineF: oh right.
well it?s just parallel to it ...like ... just ehm ... ... well not under-neath the giraffes ... you know ...(13) dialogue q3nc7, utterance 66fG: is totem pole below the trout farm?F: no i?, well, it?s kind of opposite itThese uses are explicit negations.
In (12) F says6Figure 5: Totem pole and trout farm.that the warehouse in Figure 4 is not underneath thegiraffes.
And in (13) F indicates that the totem poleis not below the trout farm in Figure 5.
As saidbefore, OP1 is the most general model that rejectsthese cases.To summarise, a semantics that aims at coveringall of the good data employs OP5 for positive usesand OP1 for negative uses.
2 On level OP5 and to alesser extent on OP4, the extensions of opposite re-lations such as above and below overlap, because allobjects that are included in the union of the regionsW , RO, and E are both above and below relativeto the reference object.
Since on OP4 the overlap issmaller than on OP5 it is better to use OP4 instead.A combination of OP4 for positive uses and OP1 fornegative uses still covers almost all of the good data(99.8%).Angular deviation.
Over all angular deviationmodels AD8 and AD9 correctly cover a maximumnumber of 399 cases (97.3%).On level AD9 there are 4 positive uses with anincorrect semantics.
Again the same three uses asabove are due to confusion of left and right.
Theremaining use is the following utterance, which re-lates to the part of a map depicted in Figure 3.
Thenarrowest model that covers this use is AD13:(14) dialogue q4ec3, utterance 332my boat house is ... down below crane bayAll negative uses are correctly rejected by allmodels from AD0 to AD5.
Model AD6 does notpredict rejection of the case which has already beendescribed above in (12).
AD7 additionally producestwo further errors in the following two cases whichdescribe Figure 6(a) and Figure 6(b), respectively.2Good data means all data excluding the cases where leftand right was confused.
(a) Tribal settlement andrope bridge.
(b) Highest viewpoint andovergrown gullyFigure 6: Section of maps 13 and 10.
(15) dialogue q4ec1, utterance 10fF: is it underneath the rope bridge or tothe left?G: it?s underneath the rope bridge(16) dialogue q4ec8, utterance 41fG: and eh to the ... left or right of highestviewpointF: ... it?s beneath itThese examples show implicit negative uses.
Theutterances in (15) give rise to the interpretation thatthe tribal settlement is not to the left rope bridge.And the utterances in (16) imply that the overgrowngully is neither to the left nor to the right of the high-est viewpoint.
These three negative uses and againthe localisation of the totem pole in (13) have notbeen modelled correctly by the semantics that em-ploys AD8.To summarise, a semantics aiming to cover all ofthe good data uses AD13 for positive uses and AD5for negative uses.
Considering that the extensionsof the opposite relations in AD13 overlap to a greatextent, it is better to use a combination of AD9 forpositive uses and AD5 for negative uses which stillcovers all of the good data except one case (99.8%).If we compare the angular deviation model(AD9/AD5) with the orthogonal projection model(OP4/OP1), the angular deviation model is superior,because in AD9 the extensions of opposite relationssuch as above and below only have a very smalloverlap, namely when the angular deviation is ex-actly 90?, while in OP4 the overlap is much moresignificant.76 Summary and ConclusionThis paper described a method to evaluate geometricconstraints on projective prepositions with empiricaldata extracted from a corpus of human-human con-versations.
The key feature of the approach is the an-notation of projective prepositions in the corpus withlinks to geometric representations of the objects thatthe arguments of the prepositions refer to.
The datais used to automatically apply and evaluate differ-ent granularity levels of a semantics building upona simple orthogonal projection model and a simpleangular deviation model.
Both models cover morethan 96% of the data correctly.
Further refinementshows that the angular deviation model covers thedata almost perfectly (99.8%) if we provide an extratreatment for negative uses, so that positive uses areaccepted when the angular deviation is below 90?and negative uses are accepted when the angular de-viation is greater than 50?.ReferencesAlicia Abella and John R. Kender.
1993.
Qualita-tively describing objects using spatial prepositions.
InNational Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages536?540.Alicia Abella.
1995.
From imagery to salience: locativeexpressions in context.
Ph.D. thesis, Computer Sci-ence Department, Columbia Universtity, New York,NY.A.
Anderson, M. Bader, E. Bard, E. Boyle, G. M. Do-herty, S. Garrod, S. Isard, J. Kowtko, J. McAllister,J.
Miller, C. Sotillo, H. S. Thompson, and R. Weinert.1991.
The HCRC Map Task Corpus.
Language andSpeech, 34(4):351?366.Kenny Coventry and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Towardsa classification of extra-geometric influences on thecomprehension of spatial prepositions.
In FunctionalFeatures in Language and Space.L.
Elizabeth Crawford, Terry Regier, and Janellen Hut-tenlocher.
2000.
Linguistic and non-linguistic spatialcategorization.
Cognition, 75(3):209?235.T.
Fuhr, G. Socher, C. Scheering, and G. Sagerer.
1995.A three-dimensional spatial model for the interpreta-tion of image data.
In IJCAI-95 Workshop on Repre-sentation and Processing of Spatial Expressions, Mon-treal, Canada.Klaus-Peter Gapp.
1994.
Basic meanings of spatial re-lations: computation and evaluation in 3d space.
InAAAI?94: Proceedings of the twelfth national confer-ence on Artificial intelligence (vol.
2), pages 1393?1398, Menlo Park, CA, USA.
American Associationfor Artificial Intelligence.K.-P. Gapp.
1995.
An empirically validated modelfor computing spatial relations.
In I. Wachsmuth,C.-R. Rollinger, and W. Brauer, editors, KI-95: Ad-vances in Artificial Intelligence.
19th German AnnualConference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 245?256.Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg.Daniel Hernandez.
1994.
Qualitative Representation ofSpatial Knowledge.
Springer-Verlag New York, Inc.John Kelleher.
2003.
A Perceptually Based Compu-tational Framework for the Interpretation of SpatialLanguage in 3D Simulated Environments.
Ph.D. the-sis, Dublin City University, Dublin.Stephen C. Levinson.
2003.
Space in Language andCognition.
Cambridge University Press.Gordon D. Logan and Daniel D. Sadler.
1996.
A com-putational analysis of the apprehension of spatial rela-tions.
In Paul Bloom, Mary A. Peterson, Lynn Nadel,and Merril G. Garrett, editors, Language and Space.MIT Press.Pascal Matsakis and Laurent Wendling.
1999.
A newway to represent the relative position between arealobjects.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis andMachine Intelligence, 21(7):634?643.John O?Keefe.
1996.
The spatial prepositions in English,vector grammar, and the cognitive map theory.
In PaulBloom, Mary A. Peterson, Lynn Nadel, and Merril G.Garrett, editors, Language and Space.
MIT Press.Dimitris Papadias and Timos K. Sellis.
1994.
Qual-itative representation of spatial knowledge in two-dimensional space.
VLDB Journal: Very Large DataBases, 3(4):479?516.Hedda R. Schmidtke.
2001.
The house is north ofthe river: Relative localization of extended objects.In D.R.
Montello, editor, COSIT 2001, LNCS 2205,pages 415?430.Peter Wazinski.
1992.
Generating spatial descriptionsfor cross-modal references.
In Proceedings of the thirdconference on Applied natural language processing,pages 56?63.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.8
