Proceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 38?44,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsInferring the semantics of temporal prepositions in ItalianTommaso Caselli          Valeria QuochiILC-CNRVia Moruzzi, 1 56123, Pisa, ItalyDip.
Linguistica ?T.Bolelli?, Universit?
degli Studi di PisaVia S.ta Maria, 36, 56100, Pisa, Italytommaso.caselli,valeria.quochi@ilc.cnr.itAbstractIn this work we report on the results of apreliminary corpus study of Italian on thesemantics of temporal prepositions, whichis part of a wider project on the automaticrecognition of temporal relations.
The cor-pus data collected supports our hypothesisthat each temporal preposition can be asso-ciated with one prototypical temporal rela-tion, and that deviations from the prototypecan be explained as determined by the oc-currence of different semantic patterns.
Themotivation behind this approach is to im-prove methods for temporal annotation oftexts for content based access to informa-tion.
The corpus study described in this pa-per led to the development of a preliminaryset of heuristics for automatic annotation oftemporal relations in text/discourse.1 IntroductionIn this work we report on the preliminary resultsof a corpus study, of contemporary Italian, on tem-poral relations that hold between a temporal ad-junct and an event as a way to determine the se-mantics of temporal prepositions.
We claim, fol-lowing Schilder and Habel (2001), that the seman-tics of temporal prepositions is rel (e, t), where relis used to indicate the temporal relation associatedwith a certain preposition, t represents the meaningof the Temporal Expression (timex), and e themeaning of the event description involved.Prepositions introducing a temporal adjunct areexplicit signals of temporal relations.
The ability todetermine temporal relations between timexes in-troduced by prepositions and events is fundamentalfor several NLP tasks like Open-Domain Question-Answering systems (Hartrumpf et al 2006, andPustejovsky et al 2002) and for Textual Entail-ment and Reasoning.The corpus data collected seems to support ourhypothesis that each temporal preposition can beassociated with one prototypical temporal relation,and that deviations from the prototype can be ex-plained as determined the occurrences of differentsemantic pattern.The work described in this paper is part of a lar-ger project we are conducting on temporal dis-course processing in Italian, as proposed in Maniand Pustejovsky (2004).2 BackgroundThis section presents a brief overview of the Ti-meML specification language (Pustejovsky et al2005), which has been used as the starting point forthis work, and some theoretical issues on Italianprepositions.2.1 TimeMLThe TimeML specification language (Pustejovskyet al 2005) offers a guideline for annotation oftimexes, events and their relations.
Like other an-notation schemes1, TimeML keeps separated tem-poral expressions and events, tagged, respectively,with TIMEX3 and EVENT.
In addition, two othertags are used: SIGNAL and LINK.The EVENT tag is used to annotate events, de-fined as something which occur or happen, and1 Filatova and Hovy (2001), Schilder and Habel (2001),Setzer (2001).38states, defined as situations in which somethingholds true.Temporal expressions, or timexes, like day times(noon, the evening, 1p.m?
), dates of differentgranularity (yesterday, February 2 2007, last week,last spring, last centuries?
), durations (five hours,in recent years?)
and sets (twice a day?
), areannotated with the TIMEX3 tag.
This tag is basedon specifications given by Ferro et al (2001) andSetzer (2001).
Each timex is assigned to one of thefollowing types: DATE, for calendar times, TIME,for times of the day, even if indefinites (e.g.
?theevening?
), DURATION, for timexes expressing aduration, and SET, for sets of times.
Each timex isfurther assigned a value, according to the ISO 8601specifications (for instance, 3 anni ?3 years?
isnormalized as ?P3Y?, i.e.
a ?period of 3 years?
).Function words which explicitly signal a relationbetween two elements (timex and event, timex andtimex, or event and event) are tagged with SIG-NAL.Finally, the LINK tag is used to specify the re-lation between two entities.
It may indicate a tem-poral relation (TLINK), a subordinating relation(SLINK) or an aspectual relation (ALINK).
TheTLINK tag, which is pivotal for the present work,comprises 15 relations, only 13 of which are purelytemporal.
The 13 relations can be seen as derivedfrom Allen?s (1984) temporal logic, and 6 of themare binary relations - one being the inverse of theother.
These relations (simultaneous, in-cludes, is_included, during,inv_during, begin, end, begun_by,ended_by, before, after) make explicit thetemporal relation holding between two elements.2.2 Temporal PPs in ItalianItalian prepositions can be divided into two maingroups: monosyllabic like a, da, in, per, tra, -andpolysyllabic ones like fino a ?up to?, dopo ?after?,,prima ?before?
?This difference at a surface levelreflects a difference also at a semantic level:monosyllabic prepositions are either semanticallyempty elements (i.e.
when they are particles pre-selected by the VP), or they bear a very abstractrelational meaning, which gets specialized on thebasis of the co-text; polysyllabic prepositions, onthe other hand, have a more specific meaning oftheir own.
For instance, the preposition dopo ?af-ter?
always means ?subsequently, afterwards?, dis-regarding its co-text; which makes the identifica-tion of the relation between the elements involvedan easier task.
In addition to this, most prepositions,both polysyllabic and monosyllabic, belong to dif-ferent semantic fields, e.g.
spatial, temporal, man-ner or other.For the purpose of this work, any prepositionfollowed by a timex, as defined in TimeML (Sec-tion 2.1), is considered a temporal preposition.Consequently, we will speak of Temporal PP forany sequence of the form ?preposition + timex?.In Italian, as in many other languages, the formthat Temporal PPs, or temporal adjuncts, may takeis influenced by the aspect and actionality of theVP.
In traditional grammars, for instance, it isclaimed that they can be introduced by in if thelexical aspect denotes a telic event (e.g.
(1)) and byper if the lexical aspect denotes a process or a par-ticular subclass of telic events, i.e.
achievements(e.g.
(2)).
Moreover, these kinds of Temporal PPsnecessarily refer to the conclusion of the processdenoted by the events and thus are incompatiblewith the progressive aspect:1) a. Maria ha pulito la stanza in mezz?ora.
[Maria cleaned the room in half an hour]b.
La pizza arriva in cinque minuti.
[The pizza will arrive in five minutes]2) a. Marco ha lavorato per due ore.[Marco has worked for two hours]b. Marco mi prest?
il libro per due giorni.
[Marco lend me his book for two days]The influence of the aspect and actionality of theVP has an impact also in the identification of theirmeaning.
In particular, in example 1) a. the prepo-sition signals that the event of cleaning the roomlasted for half an hour, while in the example 1) b.the event of arriving takes place after five minutesfrom the utterance time.
In example 1), thus, thesame Temporal PP, i.e.
IN + timex,  has two dif-ferent meanings, signalled by the relations in-cludes and after.
The different temporal rela-tions are determined by two different semantic pat-terns: [DURATIVE_Verb] + in + [TIMEX type:DURATION] for 1) a, and [TELIC_Verb] + in +[TIMEX type: DURATION], for 1) b.393 The corpus studyIn order to verify our hypothesis that the most fre-quent temporal relations represents the prototypicalmeaning of a temporal preposition2, a corpus studyhas been conducted.
It is important to note that wedo not refer to frequency tout court, but is fre-quency with respect to a certain semantic pattern.Since we want to develop a system for automaticannotation of temporal relations, a 5 million wordsyntactically shallow parsed corpus of contempo-rary Italian, drawn from the PAROLE corpus, hasbeen used3.All occurrences of a prepositional chunk withtheir left contexts has then been automatically ex-tracted and imported into a database structure us-ing a dedicated chunkanalyser tool 4 .
This auto-matically generated DB was then augmented withontological information from the SIMPLE Ontol-ogy, by associating the head noun of each preposi-tional chunk to its ontological type, and has beenqueried in order to extract all instances of Tempo-ral PPs, by restricting the nouns headed by preposi-tions to the type ?TIME?, which is defined in SIM-PLE as ?all nouns referring to temporal expres-sions?
(SIMPLE Deliverable 2.1: 245).To identify the meaning of temporal preposi-tions, therefore, we considered sequences of theform:Fin Vb Chunk + Prep Chunk: semtype= TIMEwhere Fin Vb Chunk is a shallow syntactic con-stituent headed by a finite verb and corresponds tothe ?anchoring?
event, and Prep Chunk is theprepositional phrase that represents an instance ofa timex.
To get a more complete picture of the dis-tribution of Temporal PPs in text, we extractedsequences from zero up to a maximum of two in-tervening chunks, obtaining a set of about 14,000such sequences.A first observation is about the distribution ofthe Temporal PPs.
As illustrated in Table 1 (below)Temporal PPs tend to occur immediately after theevent they are linked to.2 We assume and extend Haspelmath?s (forth.)
proposal on theexplanatory and predictive power of frequency of use.3 The corpus was parsed with the CHUNK-IT shallow parser(Lenci et al 2003).4 By courtesy of Ing.
E. Chiavaccini.Sequence Distance # OccurrencesFin_Vb  + PP (Time) 0 5859Fin_Vb + PP (Time) 1 4592Fin_Vb + PP (Time) 2 3677Table 1.
Occurrences of Temporal PPs with respectto the distance from the event.The data in Table 1 show that Temporal PPshave a behavior similar to modifiers, like adjec-tives anchoring on the time axis of the event theyrefer to.3.1 Annotating Temporal RelationsTo identify the semantics of temporal prepositions,a subcorpus of 1057 sequences of Fin Vb Chunk +Prep Chunks (Time) was manually annotated byone investigator with temporal relations in a bot-tom-up approach.The tags used for the temporal relation annota-tion were taken from the TimeML TLINK values(see Section 2.1).
This will restrict the set of possi-ble relations to a finite set.
To ease the task, weexcluded the inverse relations for includes,during, begin, and end.
In order to understandthe role of the co-text, we also marked the types oftimexes according to the TimeML TIMEX3 tag(ibid.).
In this annotation experiment we did notconsider information from the VP because it willbe relevant to explain the deviations from the pro-totype.. To facilitate the assignment of the right temporalrelation, we have used paraphrase tests.
All theparaphrases used have the same scheme, based onthe formula rel (e, t), illustrated in the 3):3) The event/state of X is R timex.where X stands for the event identified by the FinVb Chunk, R is the set of temporal relations andtimex is the temporal expression of the TemporalPP.
This means that the sequence in 4):4) [[Vfin[Sono stato sposato]  [[ PP[per quattoanni]]?I have been married for four years?can be paraphrased as 5):5) The state of ?being married?
happenedduring four years.40The only temporal relation that is not para-phrased in this way is simultaneous, which cor-responds to 6):6) The event/state X HAPPENS(-ED) ATtimex.4  ResultsAmong the 1057 sequences in our sub-corpus, wefound that only 37.46% (for a total of 449 ex-cerpts) where real of instances of Temporal PPs,the others being either false positives or complextimexes, i.e.
timexes realized by a sequence of aNP followed by a PP introduced by ?di?
(of), as inthe following example:7) [NP[la notte]] [PP[di Natale]?the Christmas night?In Table 2 (below) we report the temporalprepositions identified in the corpus:Temporal Preposition # occurrencesIn ?in?
91A ?at/on?
64Da ?from/since/for?
37Dopo ?after?
1Attraverso ?through?
1Di ?of?
43Durante ?during?
5Entro ?by?
9Fino a ?up to?
6Fino da ?since?
3Oltre ?beyond?
1Per ?for?
50Tra ?in?
3Verso ?towards?
1Table 2.
Instances of temporal prepositions in thecorpus.The relative low number of real Temporal PPscan negatively influence the analysis and the iden-tification of the semantics of the temporal preposi-tions.
In order to verify whether the data collectedcould represent a solid and consistent baseline forfurther analysis, we analysed all instances of falsepositive timexes.
With the exception of a fewcases, which could have been easily recognized bymeans of a Timex Grammar, we found out that482/608 instances are represented by nouns whichhave some sort of temporal value but whose as-signment to the semantic type ?Time?
in the On-tology do not correspond to the given definition(Section 3), e.g: colazione ?breakfast?, scuola?school?, presidenza ?presidency?, and many others.Therefore, we performed a new extraction ofsequences excluding all instances of false positives.The new results are very different since more than56.03% of all prepositional chunks are TemporalPPs.
This provides support to the fact that the se-quences extracted from the sub-corpus, thoughsmall in number, can be considered as a consistentstarting point for identifying the semantics of tem-poral prepositions.
In particular, the prepositionspresented in Table 2 correspond to the most fre-quent prepositions which give rise to temporal re-lations between timexes and events.
Though small,the 449 sequences prove to be reliable: we haveidentified a total of 320 temporal relations, as illus-trated in Table 3:Temporal Relation # occurrencesIncludes 87During 72Before 11After 11Imm_before 1Imm_after 2Simultaneous 5Beginning 52Ending 10No Temporal Link 60No Assigned 9Table 3.
Kinds of Temporal Relation Identified.5 Inferring Preposition SemanticsThe analysis we propose for each single preposi-tion provides information on its semantics.
Suchinformation is obtained on the basis of the fre-quency5 with which a given temporal relation isassociated or coded by that preposition.
We claim,as already stated, that temporal relations coded byprepositions are signals of a certain semantic pat-tern.
Different temporal relations coded by thesame preposition signal different semantic pattern.According to the frequency with which a temporalrelation, or a semantic pattern, occurs, it is consid-ered either as the prototypical (i.e.
most frequent)meaning or as a deviation from the norm, whose5 Note that what counts is relative frequencies, and notabsolute frequencies.41explanation relies in the analysis of the semanticpattern in which it occurs.
It is for this reason that amajor role in this analysis is played by the types oftimexes which follow the preposition.
Keepingtrack of their types, according to the TimeML clas-sification (Section 2.1), is very useful mainly forcases where the same temporal preposition codesdifferent temporal relations depending on the typeof the timex by which it is followed.
In otherwords, it is a way to assess the semantic patternwhich has been used to code that meaning.
In thefollowing sections we will focus on the semanticsof the most frequent temporal prepositions, that isin ?in?, a ?at, on?, per ?for?6, da ?for, since, from?.Cases of low frequency temporal relations are notanalyzed here because they would require bothmore data and a separate investigation.5.1 Prepositions per and daThese two prepositions, although they encode dif-ferent temporal relations, are presented in a uniquesubsection due to their extremely similar coherentdistribution across temporal relations.
In particular,the 80% (40/50) of per identifies a DURING tem-poral relation, and 83.78% (31/37) of da identifiesa BEGIN temporal relation.From these data, we can represent the semanticsof per as follows:8) ?(e,??
(t,?URIN G?e,?
))and that of da as:9) ?(e,??
(t,?EGIN ?e,t))5.2 The Preposition inThe preposition in is by far the most used temporalpreposition.
In our corpus there are 91 occurrencesof this preposition, distributed as follows:INCLUDES (57/91: 62.63%)DURING (19/91: 20.87%)AFTER  (6/91: 6.59%)BEGIN (3/91: 3.29%)SIMULTANEOUS (2/91: 2.19%)No LINK (2/91: 2.19%)END (1/91: 1.09%)6Note that the Italian preposition ?per?
corresponds onlyto a subset of uses of the English preposition ?for?
as inthe example:a) Suon?
per un?ora [She played for an hour.
]Following our idea that the most frequent rela-tion represents the prototypical meaning of thepreposition; we claim that Temporal PPs intro-duced by in tend to code a relation of inclusion,semantically represented as:10) ?(e,??
(t,?NCLU DES(?,?
)).Since this preposition is not exclusively usedwith this meaning, the data forces us to provide anexplanation for the other relations identified, inparticular for DURING, AFTER and BEGIN.Considering the DURING relation, we analyzedthe types of timexes governed by the prepositionbut found that type distinctions did not help.
Nev-ertheless, we observed a clearcut regularity analys-ing the normalized values of the timexes involved:we found that, whenever the timexes are definitequantified intervals of time (e.g.
2 days, 3 years,half an hour) or temporally anchored instants, inencodes the temporal relation of DURING, thusdeviating from the default interpretation repre-sented in 10).The relation AFTER shares with DURING therestriction on the normalized values of the timexes.However, for the AFTER relation there is a strongcontribution from the VP, as claimed in traditionalgrammars.
In such cases, it is the actionality of theVP that forces the interpretation of in to expressthe AFTER relation.
In fact, this relation appears tooccur only with achievement verbs, which inher-ently focus on the telos ?
or ending point (see ex-ample 1) b Section 1).Finally, the BEGIN relation can be found onlywith aspectual verbs, e.g.
iniziare ?begin?
orriprendere ?resume?.
In these cases the prepositiondoes not really work as a temporal preposition, butmore as a particle selected by the verb.5.3 The Preposition aThe preposition a presents a non-trivial distribu-tion, which makes it difficult to identify a proto-typical value:INCLUDES (20/64: 31.25%)No LINK (19/64: 29.68%)BEGINS (7/64: 10.93%)ENDS (4/64: 6.25%)SIMULTANEOUS (2/64: 3.12%)42However, with NoLINK relations the preposi-tion a does not have a temporal value, rather it isused to express either quantities of time (and itusually corresponds to ?how many times an eventoccurs or happens?)
or it can be considered as aparticle selected by the VP.
Therefore, if we ex-clude the NoLINK relations, we can consider thata Temporal PP introduced by a typically expressesa relation of inclusion.
Further support to this ob-servation can be observed in the possibility of sub-stituting a with in, at least in the temporal domain.The semantics of the preposition is the following:11) ?(e,??
(t,?NCLU DES(e,?)
).As for the BEGINS and ENDS relations, thebehaviour is the same as for the preposition in, i.e.they are activated by aspectual verbs.6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this preliminary study we showed that preposi-tions heading a Temporal PP can be associatedwith one default temporal relation and that devia-tions from the norm are due to co-textual influ-ences.
The prototypical semantics of temporalprepositions can be represented as in 8)-11).We also showed that the normalized values oftimexes play a major role in the identification oftemporal preposition semantics, more than the bareidentification of their types.
Instances of deviationsfrom the prototypical meaning which could not beexplained by differences in the timexes forced usto analyse the VPs, thus providing useful informa-tion for the definition of the heuristics.An important result of this work is the definitionof a preliminary set of heuristics for automatic an-notation of temporal relations in text/discourse.Our study also suggests a possible refinement ofthe SIMPLE Ontology aimed at its usability fortemporal relation identification; and it can be seenas a starting point for the development of a TimexGrammar.In the next future we intend to implement thisset of heuristics with a machine learning algorithmto evaluate their reliability.
All wrongly annotatedrelations could be used for the identification of therelevant information to determine the contributionof the VP.Some issues are still open and need further re-search, in particular it will be necessary to investi-gate the role of some ?complex?
Temporal PPs(e.g.
in questo momento ?in this moment?, whichcan be paraphrased as ?now?
), and how to extractthe meaning of Temporal PPs as suggested inSchilder (2004).ReferencesAllen F. James.
1984.
Towards a General Theory ofAction and Time.
Artificial Intelligence, (23):123-54Ferro Lisa, Mani Inderjeet, Sundheim Beth and WilsonGeorge.
2001.
TIDES Temporal Annotation Guide-lines: Version 1.0.2.
MITRE Technical Report, MTR01W0000041Filatova, Elena and Hovy, Eduard.
2001.
AssigningTime-Stamps To Event ?Clauses.
Proceedings of theACL Workshop on Temporal and Spatial Information,Toulouse, France, 6-1 July, pages 88-95Haspelmath, Martin.
2007 (forthcoming).
Frequency vs.iconicity in explaining grammatical asymmetries(ms).Lassen Tine.
2006.
An Ontology-Based View on Prepo-sitional Senses.
Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions pages 45-50.Lenci Alessandro, Montemagni Simonetta and VitoPirrelli.
2003.
CHUNK-IT.
An Italian Shallow Parserfor Robust Syntactic Annotation, in Linguistica Com-putazionale (16-17).Mani Inderjeet and James Pustejovsky.
2004.
TemporalDiscourse Models for Narrative Structure.
ACLWorkspoh on Discourse AnnotationHartrumpf Sven, Helbig Hermann and Rainer Osswald.2006.
Semantic Interpretation of Prepositions forNLP Applications.
Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 29-36.Pustejovky James, Belanger Louis, Casta?o Jos?,  Gai-zauskas Robert, Hanks Paul, Ingria Bob, Katz Gra-ham, Radev Dragomir, Rumshisky Anna, SanfilippoAntonio, Sauri Roser, Setzer Andrea, Sundheim Bethand Marc Verhagen, 2002.
NRRC Summer Workshopon Temporal and Event Recognition for QA Systems.Pustejovsky James, Ingria Robert, Saur?
Roser, Casta?oJos?, Littman Jessica, Gaizauskas Robert, Setzer An-drea, Katz Graham and Inderjeet Mani.
2005.
TheSpecification Language TimeML.
The Language ofTime: A Reader, Mani Inderjeet, Pustejovsky jamesand Robert Gaizauskas (eds), OUP.43Ruimy N., et al 1998.
The European LE-PAROLE Pro-ject: The Italian Syntactic Lexicon.
Proceedings ofthe LREC1998, Granada, Spain.Saint-Dizier Patrick.2006.
Syntax and Semantics ofPrepositions, (ed.
), Springer, Dordrecht, The Nether-lands.Schilder Frank and Habel Christopher.
2001.
SemanticTagging Of News Messages.
Processing of the ACLWorkshop on Temporal and Spatial Information,Toulouse, France, 6-1 July, pages 65-72Schilder Frank.
2004 Extracting meaning fron TemporalNouns and Temporal Prepositions.
ACM Transac-tions on Asian Language Information Processing, (3)1:33-50Setzer Andrea.
2001.
Temporal Information in News-wire Article: an Annotation Scheme and CorpusStudy, Ph.D. Thesis, University of Sheffield.SIMPLE Work Package D2.1, available at <http://www.ub.es/gilcub/SIMPLE/simple.html>.Van Eynde Frank.
2006.
On the prepositions which in-troduce an adjunct of duration.
Proceedings of theThird ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions pages73-80.44
