BioNLP 2007: Biological, translational, and clinical language processing, pages 193?194,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuantitative Data on Referring Expressions in Biomedical AbstractsMichael Poprat Udo HahnJena University Language and Information Engineering (JULIE) LabFu?rstengraben 30, 07743 Jena, Germany{poprat|hahn}@coling-uni-jena.deAbstractWe report on an empirical study that dealswith the quantity of different kinds of refer-ring expressions in biomedical abstracts.1 Problem StatementOne of the major challenges in NLP is the resolu-tion of referring expressions.
Those references canbe established by repeating tokens or by pronom-inal, nominal and bridging anaphora.
Experimen-tal results show that pronominal anaphora are eas-ier to resolve than nominal ones because the resolu-tion of nominal anaphora requires an IS-A-taxonomyas knowledge source.
The resolution of bridginganaphora, however, proves to be awkward becauseencyclopedic knowledge is necessary.1 But in prac-tice, are all of these phenomena equally important?A look at the publications reveals that a compre-hensive overview of the quantity and distributionof referring expressions in biomedical abstracts isstill missing.
Nevertheless, some scattered data canbe found: Castan?o et al (2002) state that 60 of100 anaphora are nominal anaphora.
Sanchez et al(2006) confirm this proportion (24 pronominal and50 nominal anaphora in 74 anaphoric expressions).Kim and Park (2004), however, detect 53 pronomi-nal and 26 nominal anaphora in 87 anaphoric expres-sions.
But Gawronska and Erlendsson (2005), on theother hand, claim that pronominal anaphora are rareand nominal anaphora are predominant.
Studies onbridging anaphora in the biomedical domain are re-1However, even the resolution of pronouns can benefit fromextra-textual information (Castan?o et al, 2002).ally still missing.
Only Cimiano (2003) states that10% of definite descriptions are bridging anaphora.This contradictoriness and the lack of statistics onreferring expressions induced us to collect our owndata in order to obtain a consistent and meaningfuloverview.
This picture helps to decide where to startif one wants to build a resolution component for thebiomedical domain.2 Empirical StudyFor our study we selected articles from MEDLINEfor stem cell transplantation and gene regulation.Out of these articles, 11 stem cell abstracts and 9gene regulation abstracts (?
12,000 tokens) were an-notated by a team of one biologist and one computa-tional linguist.
The boundaries for annotations wereneither limited to nominal phrases (NPs) nor on theirheads because NPs in biomedical abstracts are of-ten complex and hide relations between nouns (e.g.,a ?p53 protein?
is a protein called ?p53?, a ?p53gene?
is a gene that codes the ?p53 protein?
and a?p53 mutation?
is a mutation in the ?p53 gene?
).Furthermore, we annotated anaphoric expressionsreferring to biomedical entities and to processes.We distinguished the following referring ex-pressions: As repetitions, we counted string-identical, string-variants and abbreviated token se-quences in NPs, identical in their meaning (e.g.
?Mesenchymal stem cells?
- ?MSCs?
- ?MSC in-hibitory effect?).
For the time being, modifiers havenot been considered.
Anaphora comprise pronom-inal2, nominal (IS-A relations, e.g., ?B-PLL?
IS-2Without ?we?
as it always refers to the authors.193Type of Referring Expression NumberRepetitions 388Pronominal Anaphora 48 (sent.
internal)6 (sent.
external)Nominal Anaphora 79Bridging Anaphora 42Subgrouping Anaphora 91all 654Table 1: Number of Referring ExpressionsA ?B-cell malignancy?)
and bridging anaphora (allother semantic relations, e.g., ?G(1) progression?PART-OF-PROCESS ?M-G(1) transition?).
Further-more, we detected a high number of subgroupinganaphora that often occur when a group of enti-ties (e.g., ?Vascular endothelial growth factor re-ceptors?)
are mentioned first and certain subgroups(e.g., ?VEGFR1?
etc.)
are discussed later.In our abstracts we detected 654 referring expres-sions (see Table 1).
Repetitions are predominantwith 59%.
Within the group of 266 anaphora, sub-grouping anaphora contributed with 34%, nominalanaphora with 30%, pronominal anaphora with 20%and bridging anaphora with only 16%.
The mostcommon bridging relations were PART-OF-AMOUNT(14) and PART-OF (11).
The remaining 17 are heldby 8 other semantic relations such as RESULTS-FROM, MUTATED-FROM, etc.3 Open Issues and ConclusionIn biomedical abstracts we are confronted with nu-merous repetitions, mainly containing biomedicalentities.
Their reference resolution within an ab-stract seems to be easy at first glance by just com-paring strings and detecting acronyms.
Some exam-ples will show that this is tricky, though: In ?TheVEGFR3-transfected ECs exhibited high expressionlevel of LYVE-1.
?, this statement on ECs only holdsif the modifier ?VEGFR3-transfected?
is taken intoaccount.
Furthermore, transfected ECs are not iden-tical with non-transfected ECs which would be theresult if considering NP heads only.
But not ev-ery modifier influences an identity relation.
For ex-ample, the purification in ?.
.
.
when priming withpurified CD34(+) cells?
has no influence on theCD34(+) cells and statements about these cells keeptheir generality.
A classification of such modifiersadding information with or without influencing thesemantics of the modified expression must be made.Hence, we have to be careful with assumed repeti-tions and we have to handle all kinds of modifiers.In this study we present the first comprehensiveoverview of various kinds of referring expressionsthat occur in biomedical abstracts.
Although ourcorpus is still small, we could observe the strongtendency that repetitions play a major role (20 perabstract).
Anaphora occur less frequently (13 perabstract).
For a sound semantic interpretation, bothtypes must be handled.
For knowledge-intensiveanaphora resolution, the existing biomedical re-sources must be reviewed for adequacy.
To the bestof our knowledge, although dominant in our study,subgrouping anaphora have not been considered inany anaphora resolution systems and suitable reso-lution strategies must be found.
The annotation pro-cess (with more than one annotation team) will becontinued.
The main result of this study, however,is the observation that modifiers play an importantrole for referencing.
Their treatment for semanticinterpretation requires further investigations.Acknowledgements: We thank Belinda Wu?rfel forher annotation work.
This study was funded bythe EC (BOOTStrep, FP6-028099), and by the Ger-man Ministry of Education and Research (StemNet,01DS001A - 1C).ReferencesJ.
Castan?o, J. Zhang, and J. Pustejovsky.
2002.
Anaphoraresolution in biomedical literature.
In Proc.
of theSymp.
on Reference Resolution for NLP.P.
Cimiano.
2003.
On the research of bridging refer-ences within information extraction systems.
Diplomathesis, University of Karlsruhe.B.
Gawronska and B. Erlendsson.
2005.
Syntactic,semantic and referential patterns in biomedical texts:Towards in-depth comprehension for the purpose ofbioinformatics.
In Proc.
of the 2nd Workshop on Nat-ural language Understanding and Cognitive science,pages 68?77.J.-J.
Kim and J. C. Park.
2004.
BioAR: Anaphora reso-lution for relating protein names to proteome databaseentries.
In Proc.
of the ACL 2004: Workshop on Ref-erence Resolution and its Applications, pages 79?86.O.
Sanchez, M. Poesio, M. A. Kabadjov, and R. Tesar.2006.
What kind of problems do protein interactionsraise for anaphora resolution?
A preliminary analysis.In Proc.
of the 2nd SMBM 2006, pages 109?112.194
