Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on Important Unresolved Matters, pages 97?104,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsVerb Valency Semantic Representation for Deep Linguistic ProcessingAle?
Hor?k1, Karel Pala1, Marie Du?
?2, Pavel Materna11: Faculty of Informatics, Masaryk UniversityBotanicka 68a602 00 BrnoCzech Republic{hales,pala}@fi.muni.cz2: VSB-Technical University of Ostrava17.listopadu 15708 33 Ostrava-PorubaCzech Republicmarie.duzi@vsb.czAbstractIn the paper, we describe methods forexploitation of a new lexical database ofvalency frames (VerbaLex) in relation toTransparent Intensional Logic (TIL).
Wepresent a detailed description of theComplex Valency Frames (CVF) as theyappear in VerbaLex including basicontology of the VerbaLex semantic roles.TIL is a typed logical system developed fornatural language semantic representationusing TIL logical forms known asconstructions.
TIL is well suited to handlethe difficult language phenomena such astemporal relations, intensionality andpropositional attitudes.
Here we make useof the long-term development of theNormal Translation Algorithm aimed atautomatic translation of natural languagesentences into TIL constructions.We examine the relations between CVFsand TIL constructions of predicate-argument structures and discuss theprocedure of automatic acquisition of theverbal object constructions.
Theexploitation of CVFs in the syntacticparsing is also briefly mentioned.1 IntroductionIn the paper we propose a method to integrate thelogical analysis of sentences with the linguisticapproach to semantics, exploiting the complexvalency frames (CVFs) in the VerbaLex verbvalency lexicon, see (Hlav?
?kov?, Hor?k, Kadlec2006).
To this end we first present a brief survey ofthe logic we are going to use, namely TransparentIntensional Logic (TIL), which was originated byP.
Tich?
(Tich?
1988).
Theoretical aspects of TILwere further developed in particular by P. Materna(Materna 1998) and also by co-authors of thispaper (see, Materna, Du??
2005, Hor?k 2002).
Aquestion may be asked why we do not exploit firstorder predicate logic (PL1) where some of thepresented problems have already been exploredand PL1 has been used to represent logical forms.It is a well established fact that PL1 is not able tohandle systematically the phenomena likepropositional verbs (which, of course, appear inour valency frames), grammatical tenses andmodalities (modal verbs and modal particles innatural language).
On the other hand, since TILworks with types these problems either do not ariseor they can be solved in an intuitive way (see Ti-ch?
1988).In the second linguistic section we present CVFsby means of which the semantics of verbs innatural language such as Czech or English can bedescribed.In Section 3 we show how CVFs describe thesurface valencies of verbs (i.e.
their respectivemorphological cases in Czech) as well as thesemantics of their predicate-argument structure.Concerning the latter we make use of the deepsemantic roles expressed by two-level labels basedpartly on the Top Ontology (EuroWordNet) andpartly on the selected literals from PrincetonWordNet.Since so far these two ways of description, namelythe logical and linguistic one, have been treatedseparately, the task we set is to propose a method97of their interrelation and coordination.
Needless tosay that both ways of description of verb semanticsare useful.Hence we are going to show how to combine alogical description using mostly terms like types,individuals, classes, relations, propositions, or, ingeneral, constructions of these entities, with thelinguistic framework capturing the idiosyncraticsemantic features of the verbs such asSUBS(liquid:1) or AG(person:1|animal:1).In Section 4 we adduce an example of the analysisof selected English and Czech verbs for which theabove mentioned integration has been proposed.2 Basics of Transparent IntensionalLogicIn this Section we provide an introductoryexplanation of the main notions of TransparentIntensional Logic (TIL).
For exact definitions anddetails see, e.g., Tich?
(1988), Tich?
(2004),Materna (1998), Materna (2004) and Materna,Du??
(2005).
TIL  approach to knowledgerepresentation can be characterised as the ?top-down approach?.
TIL ?generalises to the hardestcase?
and obtains the ?less hard cases?
by liftingvarious restrictions that apply only higher up.
Thisway of proceeding is opposite to how semantictheories tend to be built up.
The standard approach(e.g.
predicate logic) consists in beginning withatomic sentences, then proceeding to molecularsentences formed by means of truth-functionalconnectives or by quantifiers, and from there tosentences containing modal operators and, finally,attitudinal operators.Thus, to use a simple case for illustration, once avocabulary and rules of formation have been laiddown, semantics gets off the ground by analysingan atomic sentence as follows:(1) ?Charles is happy?
: FaAnd further upwards:(2) ?Charles is happy, and Thelma isgrumpy?
: Fa ?
Gb(3) ?Somebody is happy?
: ?x (Fx)(4) ?Possibly, Charles is happy?
:  (Fa)(5) ?Thelma believes that Charles is happy?
:Bb (Fa).In non-hyperintensional (i.e., non-procedural)theories of formal semantics, attitudinal operatorsare swallowed by the modal ones.
But when theyare not, we have three levels of granularity: thecoarse level of truth-values, the fine-grained levelof truth-conditions (propositions, truth-values-in-intension), and the very fine-grained level ofhyper-propositions, i.e., constructions ofpropositions.
TIL operates with these three levelsof granularity.
We start out by analysing sentencesfrom the uppermost end, furnishing them with ahyperintensional1 semantics, and working our waydownwards, furnishing even the lowest-endsentences (and other empirical expressions) with ahyperintensional semantics.
That is, the sense of asentence such as ?Charles is happy?
is a hyper-proposition, namely the construction of thedenoted proposition (i.e., the instruction how toevaluate the truth-conditions of the sentence in anystate of affairs).When assigning a construction to an expression asits meaning, we specify a procedural know-how,which must not be confused with the respectiveperformancy know-how.
Distinguishingperformatory know-how from procedural know-how, the latter could be characterised ?that aknower x knows how A is done in the sense that xcan spell out instructions for doing A.?
Forinstance, to know what Goldbach Conjecturemeans is to understand the instruction to findwhether ?all positive even integers ?
4 can beexpressed as the sum of two primes?.
It does notinclude either actually finding out (whether it istrue or not by following a procedure or by luck) orpossessing the skill to do so.2Furthermore, the sentence ?Charles is happy?
is an?intensional context?, in the sense that its logicalanalysis must involve reference to empiricalparameters, in this case both possible worlds andinstants of time.
Charles is only contingentlyhappy; i.e., he is only happy at some worlds andonly sometimes.
The other reason is because theanalysans must be capable of figuring as anargument for functions whose domain arepropositions rather than truth-values.
Construing?Fa?
as a name of a truth-value works only in thecase of (1), (2) and (3).
It won?t work in (5), sincetruth-values are not the sort of thing that can be1  The term ?hyperintensional?
has been introduced byMax Cresswell in Cresswell (1975).
See alsoCresswell (1985).2  For details on TIL handling knowledge see Du?
?,Jespersen, M?ller (2005).98believed.
Nor will it work in (4), since truth-valuesare not the sort of thing that can be possible.Constructions are procedures, or instructions,specifying how to arrive at less-structured entities.Being procedures, constructions are structuredfrom the algorithmic point of view, unlike set-theoretical objects.
The TIL ?language ofconstructions?
is a modified hyper-intensionalversion of the typed ?-calculus, where Montague-like ?-terms denote, not the functions constructed,but the constructions themselves.
Constructionsqua procedures operate on input objects (of anytype, even on constructions of any order) and yieldas output (or, in well defined cases fail to yield)objects of any type; in this way constructionsconstruct partial functions, and functions, ratherthan relations, are basic objects of our ontology.By claiming that constructions are algorithmicallystructured, we mean the following: a constructionC ?
being an instruction ?
consists of particularsteps, i.e., sub-instructions (or, constituents) thathave to be executed in order to execute C. Theconcrete/abstract objects an instruction operates onare not its constituents, they are just mentioned.Hence objects have to be supplied by another(albeit trivial) construction.
The constructionsthemselves may also be only mentioned: thereforeone should not conflate using constructions asconstituents of composed constructions andmentioning constructions that enter as input intocomposed constructions, so we have to strictlydistinguish between using and mentioningconstructions.
Just briefly: Mentioning is, inprinciple, achieved by using atomic constructions.A construction is atomic if it is a procedure thatdoes not contain any other construction as a usedsubconstruction (a constituent).
There are twoatomic constructions that supply objects (of anytype) on which complex constructions operate:variables and trivializations.Variables are constructions that construct an objectdependently on valuation: they v-construct, wherev is the parameter of valuations.
When X is anobject (including constructions) of any type, theTrivialization of X, denoted 0X, constructs Xwithout the mediation of any other construction.
0Xis the atomic concept of X: it is the primitive, non-perspectival mode of presentation of X.There are three compound constructions, whichconsist of other constructions: Composition,Closure and Double Execution.
Composition [X Y1?
Ym] is the procedure of applying a function f v-constructed by X to an argument A v-constructedby Y1,?,Ym, i.e., the instruction to apply f to A toobtain the value (if any) of f at A. Closure[?x1?xm Y] is the procedure of constructing afunction by abstracting over variables, i.e., theinstruction to do so.
Finally, higher-orderconstruction X can be used twice over as aconstituent of a composed construction.
This isachieved by the fifth construction called DoubleExecution 2X.TIL constructions, as well as the entities theyconstruct, all receive a type.
On the ground level ofthe type-hierarchy, there are entities unstructuredfrom the algorithmic point of view belonging to atype of order 1.
Given a so-called epistemic (or?objectual?)
base of atomic types  (?-truth values,?-individuals, ?-time moments / real numbers, ?-possible worlds), mereological complexity isincreased by the induction rule for forming partialfunctions: where ?, ?1,?,?n are types of order 1,the set of partial mappings from ?1 ???
?n to ?,denoted (??1?
?n), is a type of order 1 as well.Constructions that construct entities of order 1 areconstructions of order 1.
They belong to a type oforder 2, denoted by *1.
Inductively we define typeof order n, *n.TIL is specific in a precise solution for intensionsas non-empirical objects of the real world.Intensions are qualified as functions of a type((??)?
), i.e., functions from possible worlds tochronologies of the type ?
(in symbols: ???
),where a chronology is a function of type (??
).Some important kinds of intensions are:Propositions, type ???
(shortened as ?).
They aredenoted by empirical (declarative) sentences.Properties of members of a type ?, or simply ?-properties, type (??)?
?.3 General terms (somesubstantives, intransitive verbs) denote properties,mostly of individuals.Relations-in-intension, type (??1??m)??.
Forexample transitive empirical verbs, also attitudinalverbs denote these relations.
Omitting ??
we get thetype (??1?
?m) of relations-in-extension (to be metmainly in mathematics).3  Collections, sets, classes of ??-objects?
are membersof type (??
); TIL handles classes (subsets of a type)as characteristic functions.
Similarly relations (-in-extension) are of type(s) (??1?
?m).99?-roles or offices, type ??
?, where ?
?
(??
).Frequently ???
(an individual office).
Often denotedby concatenation of a superlative and a noun (?thehighest mountain?).
Individual roles correspond towhat Church calls an ?individual concept?.3 The Complex Valency FramesValency frames have been built in several projects(VALLEX for Czech PDT (?abokrtsk?
2005) orVerbNet (Kipper et al2006)).
Motivation for theVerbaLex project came from comparing CzechWordNet verb frames with VALLEX.
The maingoal of VerbaLex is an automatic processing ofverb phrases exploiting explicit links to PrincetonWordNet.
The complex valency frames we areworking with can be characterized as datastructures (tree graphs) describing predicate-argument structure of a verb which contains theverb itself and the arguments determined by theverb meaning (their number usually varies from 1-5).
The argument structure also displays thesemantic preferences on the arguments.
On thesyntactic (surface) level the arguments are mostfrequently expressed as noun or pronominal groupsin one of the seven cases (in Czech) and also asprepositional cases or adverbials.An example of a complex valency frame for theverb zab?t (kill) looks like:usmrtit:1/zab?t:1/dostat:11 (kill:1)-frame: AG<person:1|animal:1>who_nomoblVERBoblPAT<person:1|animal:1>whom_accoblINS<instrument:1>with_what_insopt-example: vrah zabil svou ob??
no?em (A murdererhas killed the victim with a knife).-synonym:-use: primMore examples of CVFs for some selected verbscan be found below in Section 4.The semantics of the arguments is typically labeledas belonging to a given semantic role (or deepcase), which represents a general role plussubcategorization features (or selectionalrestrictions).
Thus valency frames in Verbalexinclude information about:1. the syntactic (surface) information aboutthe syntactic valencies of a verb, i.e.
whatmorphological cases (direct andprepositional ones in highly inflectedlanguages such as Czech) are associatedwith (required by) a particular verb, andalso adverbials,2.
semantic roles (deep cases) that representthe integration of the general labels withsubcategorization features (or selectionalrestrictions) required by the meaning of theverb.The inventory of the semantic roles is partlyinspired by the Top Ontology and Base Conceptsas they have been defined within EuroWordNetproject.
Thus we work with the general or ?large?roles like AG, ART(IFACT), SUBS(TANCE),PART, CAUSE, OBJ(ECT) (natural object),INFO(RMATION), FOOD, GARMENT,VEHICLE and others.
They are combined with theliterals from Princeton WordNet 2.0 where literalsrepresent subcategorization features allowing us toclimb down the hypero/hyponymical trees to theindividual lexical units.
For example, we haveAG(person:1|animal:1) or SUBS(liquid:1) that canbe used within the individual CVFs.The verb entries are linked to the Czech andPrinceton WordNet 2.0, i.e.
they are organizedaround the respective lemma in synsets withnumbered senses.The Czech lexical resource being now developed isthen a list of Czech CVFs ?
this work is going onwithin the Verbalex project at FI MU (Hlav?
?kov?,Hor?k, 2005).
Verbalex now contains approx.11000 verb literals organized in synsets.
Thecurrent goal is to enlarge the lexicon to 15 000verbs.The inventory of the semantic roles we work withclearly represents a sort of ontology which tries tocover word stock of Czech verbs and can be usedas a base for a semantic classification andsubclassification of the verbs.
The ontologiesrepresent theoretical constructs designed from the?top?
and as such they are not directly based on theempirical evidence, i.e.
corpus data.
Thus there is aneed to confront the ontologies and the inventoriesof the semantic roles that can be derived from themwith the corpus data and see how well they cancorrespond to them.
For this purpose we areexperimenting with the corpus data obtained fromthe Word Sketch Engine (Kilgarriff, Rychl?,Smr?, Tugwell 2006).1004 Logical Analysis Using CVFsIn this section we describe the translation ofVerbaLex CVFs into a verb phrase, which is a coreof a sentence logical analysis.TIL comes with a dissociation of significant verbsinto two groups according to the classification oftheir meaning:1. by attributive verbs we ascribe qualities orproperties to objects.
Attributive verbs aretypically expressed by the respective formof the verb ?to be?
combined with anexpression denoting a property; examples:?to be red?
or ?to be mellow?
or with ageneral substantive like ?to be a traitor?, ?tobe a tree?.2.
episodic verbs, on the other hand, specifyactions performed by a subject.An episodic verb does not describe its subject'sstate in any moment of time, it rather describes anepisode of doing something at the certain timemoment (and necessarily some time before thatmoment plus the expectation that it will last also inthe next few moments, at least).
TIL provides acomplex handling of episodic verbs including theverb tense, aspect (perfective/imperfective) oractive/passive state.
All these features areconcentrated around the so called verbal object, theconstruction of which (i.e., the meaning of aparticular verb phrase) is the application of (theconstruction of) the verb to (the constructions of)the verb's arguments.Since the analysis of attributive verbs is usuallyquite simple, we will concentrate in the followingtext on the examples of selected episodic verbsfrom VerbaLex and their logical analysis using thecomplex valency frames.The TIL type of episodic verbal objects is(?(??)(??
))?, where ?
is the type of propositions(???).
See (Hor?k 2002, pp.
64-73) and (Tich?1980) for detailed explanation.
Our analysis isdriven by a linguistic (syntactic) context thatsignals the semantic fact that there is always afunction involved here, so that we have to ascribetypes to its arguments and value.4.1 Examples of Logical AnalysisWe have chosen cca 10 verbs with their verbframes from VerbaLex and we will use them asexamples of the algorithm for determining the verbtype in the TIL logical analysis procedure.d?t (give)d?t:2 / d?vat:2 / darovat:1 / v?novat:1 (give:8,gift:2, present:7)-frame: DON<organization:1>what_nomobl VERBoblOBJ<object:1>what_accoblBEN<person:1>to_whom_datobl-example: firma v?novala zam?stnanc?m nov?
auta(a company gave new cars to the employees)-use: primThe verb arguments in this frame are: who, towhom, what (all obligatory) with (at least) twooptions: a) to whom  is an individual, b) to whom isa class of individuals.
The respective verb typesare ad a): ((?(??)(??))????
),ad b): ((?(??)(??))??(??)?
).For example to whom = to the employees of agiven institution.
To be an employee of theinstitution XY is a property, say Z / (??)??.
So ?Thecompany gave to the employees of XY?
?, nottaking into account grammatical tenses andomitting trivializations we get ?w?t [Givewt XYZwt etc.]
(XY has the type ?
here, being a collectiverather than a class.
)With this example, we can show that CVFs areused not only for determining the verbal objecttype, but also for stating additional prerequisities(necessary conditions) for the sentenceconstituents.
The full analysis using the verb frameabove thus contains, except the verb phrase part,the conditions saying that ?X gives Y to Z ?organization(X)  ?
object(Y) ?
person(Z)?.
Thepredicates organization, object and person hererepresent the properties denoted by thecorresponding terms in the wordnet hypero-hyponymical hierarchy.d?t:15 / d?vat:15 / nab?dnout:3 / nab?zet:3(give:37)-frame: AG<person:1>who_nomobl VERBoblABS<abstraction:1>what_accoblREC<person:1>to_whom_datobl-example: dal j?
sv?
slovo (he gave her his word)-example: nab?dl j?
sv?
srdce (he offered her hisheart)-use: figHere we have an idiom (?to give word?
), whichcorresponds to an (episodic) relation between two101individuals.
Thus the type of the verb is((?(??)(??))???
), the second ?
corresponds to towhom.br?nit (prevent)br?nit:1 / zabr?nit:2 / zabra?ovat:2 / zamezit:2 /zamezovat:2 (prevent:2, keep:4)-frame: AG<person:1>who_nomobl  VERBoblPAT<person:1>to_whom_datobl   ACT<act:1>infobl-example: zabr?nila mu uhodit syna (she preventedhim from hitting the son)-use: primbr?nit:1 / zabr?nit:2 / zabra?ovat:2 / zamezit:2 /zamezovat:2 (prevent:2, keep:4)-frame: AG<institution:1>what_nomobl VERBoblPAT<person:1>to_whom_datoblACT<act:2>in_what_locopt-example: policie mu zabr?nila v cest?
do zahrani??
(police prevented him from going abroad)-use: primHere, arguments of the verb correspond to thephrases who, to whom, in (from).
The thirdargument has the type of an activity given, ofcourse, by an episodic verb hit the son, travelabroad (the substantive form travelling abroad canbe construed as that activity).
The type of the verbis ((?(??)(??))???((?(??)(??))?)).?
?ct (say)?
?ct:1 / ?
?kat:1 / ?
?ci:1 / ?
?kat:1 / pravit:1 (say:6)-frame: AG<person:1>who_nomobl   VERBoblCOM<speech act:1>what_acc,that,dspoblADR<person:1>to_whom_datopt-example: ?
?ct kolegovi dobr?
den (say hello to acolleague)-example: ?ekl, ?e to plat?
(he said that it holds)-example: pravil: "Dobr?
den" (he said: ?Goodday?
)-use: primThe case questions for the correspondingarguments of the verb ?
?ct are a) who, what1,b) who, what2, c) who, to whom, what1, and d) who,to whom, what2.
Examples of instantiatedsentences can be a) Charles says ?Hello?,b) Charles says that he is ill, c) Charles says to hiscolleague ?Hello?, or d) Charles says to hiscolleague that he is ill.The quotation context (ad a), c)) is normallyimpossible to type.
Unless we want to go into somedeep analyses we can ascribe to any quotedexpression the type of individual.
The relation toand unquoted subordinate clause is analysed as ageneral construction of type ?n.
The resultingtypes of verbs are thena) ((?(??)(??))???
),b) ((?(??)(??))??
?n),c) ((?(??)(??))????
),d) ((?(??)(??))???
?n).bre?et1 (cry) because of something, forsomethingbre?et:1 / plakat:1 (cry:2, weep:1)-frame: AG<person:1>who_nomobl   VERBoblCAUSE<cause:4>due+to+what_dat,over+what_ins,for+what_accobl-example: bre?ela kv?li zni?en?m ?at?m (she criedfor spoiled clothes)-example: plakal nad svou chudobou (he cried overhis poverty)-example: plakal pro sv?
h?
?chy (he cried for hissins)-use: primbre?et2 (cry) for somebodybre?et:1 / plakat:1 (cry:2, weep:1)-frame: AG<person:1>who_nomobl VERBoblENT<person:1>for+whom_accobl-example: plakala pro mil?ho (she cried for herboy)-use: primIf I cry because of, for etc., then the role of causingis played by this because of.
Crying is an episodicverb, whereas because of etc.
is a relation betweenpropositions, often between events.
We havetherefore because of / (???)?
?, where the first?(=???)
belongs to the proposition denoted, e.g., byclothes have been spoiled or that the respectiveindividual is poor, sinful etc., and the second ?
tothe proposition that the respective individual cries.In case of to cry for somebody the respective typeis again a ?relation?
((?(??)(??))???
), although thisfor hides some cause, which is, however, notmentioned.With this verb, we will describe the analysis ofverb entailment handling in TIL.
If we analyse ageneral case of the above mentioned meanings ofcry (cry1-because of something, cry2-for102somebody) simply to cry, (He cries all the time).This verb?s type is a verbal object withoutarguments, (?(??)(??))?.
In addition to this thefollowing rule holds: If X cries because of?
or Xcries for?, then X cries.
In this way the semanticdependence between the three cases of crying isgiven; otherwise we would not be able to detectthis connection, e.g.
between bre?et1 and bre?et2.absolvovat (undergo)absolvovat:2 / pro?
?t:1 / pro?
?vat:1 (experience:1,undergo:2, see:21, go through:1)-frame: AG<person:1>who_nomobl VERBoblEVEN<experience:3>what_accoblLOC<location:1>in_what_locopt-example: absolvoval vy?et?en?
na psychiatrick?klinice (he went through investigation in apsychiatric clinic)-use: primIn general it is an episodic relation to an event(type ?
)4, so the type is ((?(??)(??))???).
In somecases we may also use a relation to an episode(specific class of events, type (??
)), then the typeis ((?(??)(??))??(??
)), and investigation in a clinichas to be defined as a sequence of events.akceptovat (accept)akceptovat:3 / p?ijmout:6 / p?ij?mat:6 (accept:4)-frame: AG<person:1|social group:1>who_nomoblVERBoblSTATE<state:4>|EVEN<event:1>|INFO<info:1>what_accobl-example: akceptujeme jeho povahu (we accept hischaracter)-example: lid?
p?ijali nov?
z?kon s nad?en?m(people accepted new law with enthusiasm)-use: primWe can accept nearly anything.
Here we meet theproblem of type-theoretical polymorphism, whichis handled here as a type scheme ((?(??)(??))???
),for an arbitrary type ?.
A quintessence of such apolymorphism: think on (about) ?
one can thinkof an object of any kind.u?it (teach)nau?it:1 / u?it:2 / vyu?ovat:1 (teach:1, learn:5,instruct:1)4 see (Hor?k 2002, p. 65) and (Tich?
1980).-frame: AG<person:1>who_nomobl VERBoblPAT<person:1>whom_accoptKNOW<subject:3>what_acc,to_what_datobl-example: nau?il d?t?
abecedu (he educated achildren in the alphabet)-example: u??
studenty matematiku (he teachesmathematics for students)-example: vyu?uje d?jepisu (he/she teacheshistory)-use: primIf understood as in ?What does (s)he live off?
(S)heteaches.?
it is the case of cry3 (see above).
Toteach understood as in ?He teaches history,maths?, etc., the analysis depends on which type isgiven to the school subjects, disciplines.
Onepossibility is to analyse them as properties of a setof propositions, (?(??))??.
Then to teach receivesthe type ((?(??)(??))??(?(??))??).
If ?teachesalphabet?
is the case then we have to decide whatwe mean by alphabet.
Here the point is to teach(learn) to associate symbols and sounds(phonemes?
), so the respective type of alphabet is(??
), where ?
is the type of symbols, ?
the type ofsounds.
In the analysis of ?to educate somebody insomething?
the verb takes an individual as itsadditional argument: ((?(??)(??))????
), where ?
isthe type of the discipline.In all the examples, we have displayed therelations between the two-level semantic roles usedin the VerbaLex verb frames and the resultinglogical analysis types of the verbal object as themain part of the clause?s logical construction.
Thealgorithmisation of this procedure uses a list of allroles used in the lexicon (there are about 200 rolesused) with the corresponding (ambiguous) logicaltypes of the constituents.
In this way we can form abasic skeleton of the automatic translation of textto logical constructions.5 ConclusionsThe paper presented a first outline of comparisonand integration of the two approaches, namelylogical and linguistic, to the semantics of verbs in anatural language (English and Czech).
We areaware that this work is still in a great progress andthe results so presented rather fragmentary.
Still,we are convinced that the research project we aimat is a relevant contribution to the semantics ofnatural language.103We have shown that pursuing such a research isreasonable and comes up with a new viewpoint tothe meaning of verbs.
In this way we extend ourknowledge in the important way.
Actually, we aredealing with two deep levels of the meaningdescription and a question may be asked which oneis deeper and better.
Our answer is, do not contrastthe two levels, and make use of both of them.
Inthis way we believe to integrate them into onecompact whole and perhaps obtain a unique datastructure.
The results of the presented research canbe immediately applied in the area of knowledgerepresentation and in the long-term NormalTranslation System project that is being prepared.We have not tackled the other deep descriptions,such as the method that exploits thetectogramatical level as it is presently applied inPDT (Haji?
2004).
This, obviously, is a topic ofanother paper.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been supported by the Academy ofSciences of the Czech Republic, project No.T100300414, by the Ministry of Educationof CR within the Center of basic research LC536,by the program ?Information Society?
of CzechAcademy of Sciences, project No.
1ET101940420"Logic and Artificial Intelligence for multi-agentsystems", and by the Czech Science Foundationunder the project 201/05/2781.ReferencesCresswell, M.J. (1975): ?Hyperintensional Logic?.Studia Logica 34, pp.25-38.Cresswell, M.J. (1985): Structured meanings.
MITPress, Cambridge, Mass.Du?
?, M., Jespersen, B., M?ller, J.
(2005): EpistemicClosure and Inferable Knowledge.
The LogicaYearbook 2004, ed.
L. B?hounek, M. B?lkov?,Filosofia Prague, pp.
125-140.Fellbaum, C., editor.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database.
The MIT Press, Cambridge,Massachusetts, London, England.Haji?, Jan (2004): Complex Corpus Annotation: ThePrague Dependency Treebank, Jazykovedny UstavL.Stura, Bratislava, Slovakia, 2004.Hlav?
?kov?, Dana - Hor?k, Ale?
- Kadlec, Vladim?r(2006).
Exploitation of the VerbaLex Verb ValencyLexicon in the Syntactic Analysis of Czech.
LectureNotes in Artificial Intelligence, Proceedings of Text,Speech and Dialogue 2006, Berlin, Heidelberg :Springer, 2006.Hor?k, Ale?
(2002).
The Normal Translation Algorithmin  Transparent Intensional Logic for Czech, Ph.D.Dissertation, Masaryk University, Brno, 2002.Kilgarriff, Adam - Rychl?, Pavel - Smr?, Pavel -Tugwell, David (2006).
The Sketch Engine.
InProceedings of the Eleventh EURALEXInternational Congress.
Lorient, France : Universitede Bretagne-Sud, pp.
105-116, 2004.Karin Kipper, Anna Korhonen, Neville Ryant, andMartha Palmer (2006): Extensive Classifications ofEnglish verbs.
Proceedings of the 12th EURALEXInternational Congress.
Turin, Italy.
September,2006.Materna, P. (1998): Concepts and Objects.
ActaPhilosophica Fennica, Vol.
63, Helsinki.Materna, P. (2004): Conceptual Systems.
Logos Verlag,Berlin.Materna, P., Du?
?, M. (2005): Parmenides Principle.Philosophia, vol.
32 (1-4), pp.
155-180.Tich?, P. (1988): The Foundations of Frege?s Logic,Berlin, New York: DeGruyter.Tich?, P. (1980): The Semantics of Episodic Verbs,Theoretical Linguistics 7, pp.
263-296, 1980.Tich?, P. (2004): Collected Papers in Logic andPhilosophy, V. Svoboda, B. Jespersen, C.
Cheyne(eds.
), Prague: Filosofia, Czech Academy ofSciences, and Dunedin: University of Otago Press?abokrtsk?, Z.
(2005): Valency Lexicon of Czech Verbs.Ph.D.
Thesis, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics,Charles University in Prague, 2005.104
