BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 28?29,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsMining the Biomedical Literature for Genic InformationCatalina O. Tudor ?
K. Vijay-Shanker ?
Carl J. Schmidt ?Department of Computer and Information Sciences ?Department of Animal and Food Sciences ?University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716{tudor,vijay}@cis.udel.edu schmidtc@udel.eduAbstracteGIFT (Extracting Gene Information FromText) is an intelligent system which is in-tended to aid scientists in surveying litera-ture relevant to genes of interest.
From agene specific set of abstracts retrieved fromPubMed, eGIFT determines the most impor-tant terms associated with the given gene.Annotators using eGIFT can quickly find ar-ticles describing gene functions and individ-uals scientists surveying the results of high-throughput experiments can quickly extractinformation important to their hits.1 IntroductionGiven the huge number of articles from the biomed-ical domain, it has become very difficult for scien-tists to quickly search and find the information theyneed.
Systems to facilitate literature search are beingbuilt.
E.g.
GoPubMed (Doms and Schroeder, 2005)clusters abstracts retrieved from PubMed based onGO and MeSH terms, iHOP (Hoffman and Valen-cia, 2005) connects biomedical literature based ongenes, EBIMed (Rebholz-Schuhmann et al, 2006)displays sentences containing GO terms, drugs, andspecies.In contrast to these systems, eGIFT automaticallyidentifies the most relevant terms associated with agiven gene.
We believe that such a retrieval of termscould itself enable the scientists to form a reason-able good idea about the gene.
For example, someof the top key phrases associated with Groucho (En-trez Gene ID 43162) by eGIFT are: transcriptionalcorepressor, segmentation, neurogenesis and wd40.This might immediately inform a user that Grou-cho is probably a transcriptional corepressor, thatit might be involved in the processes of segmenta-tion and neurogenesis and that it might contain thewd40 domain, which allows them to draw further in-ferences about the gene.
To enable the scientists toget a deeper understanding, eGIFT further allows theretrieval of all sentences from this gene?s literaturecontaining the key phrase in question.
The sentencescan be displayed in isolation or in the context of theabstract in which they appear.2 Ranking Key Terms(Andrade and Valencia, 1998) automatically ex-tracted keywords from scientific text by computingscores for each word in a given protein family, basedon the frequency of the word in the family, the aver-age frequency of the word and the deviation of worddistribution over all families.
(Liu et al, 2004) ex-tended this method to statistically mine functionalkeywords associated with genes.Our application is somewhat similar in that wecompare the distribution of phrases in the abstractsabout the gene from some background set.
We usestatistical methods to identify the situations wherethe different frequencies of appearance of a termin two sets of the literature are statistically interest-ing.
We differ from the above work by choosing abroader range of background information.
Our moti-vation is to retrieve any type of phrases, thus not lim-iting ourselves to only functional terms or terms thatmight differentiate the selected set of protein fami-lies.
Since we no longer have several sets of litera-28ture, our approach differs from the above method inthat we cannot base the score on average frequenciesand term deviation in the same way.Background Set (BSet): In order to capture a widerange of information about genes in general, wedownloaded from PubMed all the abstracts for thefollowing boolean query: gene[tiab] OR genes[tiab]OR protein[tiab] OR proteins[tiab].
Approximately640,000 non-empty abstracts were found.Query Set (QSet): We download from PubMed theabstracts that mention a given gene name and its syn-onyms.
We obtained the latter from BioThesaurus(Liu et al, 2005).Key Term Scores: We considered many differentstatistical tests to identify significant key phrases,but eventually settled on the following score:st = (dctqNq?dctbNb) ?
ln(Nbdctb)where dctb and dctq are the background and querydocument counts of term t, and Nb and Nq are thetotal number of documents from the BSet and QSet.The difference in frequencies (dctqNq ?dctbNb) givespreference to terms that appear more frequently inthe QSet than in the BSet.
This way, we wouldlike to capture terms that are common to the givengene but not to genes and proteins in general.
Thedifference itself is not sufficient to eliminate com-mon words.
To address this problem, similar to theuse of IDF in IR, we add a global frequency term(ln(Nbdctb)) to further penalize common terms, suchas protein.To better understand how the score is computed,consider the gene Groucho and its key term core-pressor, which was mentioned in 66% of the QSetand only in 0.1% of the BSet.
The huge differencein frequencies, together with the low backgroundfrequency, helped the key term corepressor score4.3617, while most of the terms score below 0.25.Enhancements to Basic Method: First, we ex-tended our method to include unigrams, bigrams,and multi-word terms where previously identified.We observed that some words are not meaningfulwhen presented alone.
For instance, the words de-velopment and embryonic taken separately are notas informative as when put together into embryonicdevelopment, a term which was ranked much higherthan the two words.Next, we applied morphological grouping onterms, based on manually developed rules, after ob-serving variances within the same concept.
In writ-ing, we can say corepressor, co-repressor, or co-repressors.
In order to capture the concept, we com-puted frequencies on morphological groups and noton each individual term.Last, we divided key terms into categories byusing morphological information to separate termssuch as descriptors, and by consulting publicly avail-able controlled vocabularies (such as NCBI Con-served Domains, NCBI Taxonomy, MedlinePlus,DrugBank, and MeSH category A01).3 AssessmentOur method has been applied on 55 different genesselected by annotators for a public resource.
Theinitial feedback has been encouraging.
Also pre-liminary investigations suggest we get far more key-words associated with some genes in resources suchas GenBank, SwissProt and Gene Ontology than thesystem of (Liu et al, 2004).
Our next goal is to do athorough evaluation of our system.ReferencesMiguel A Andrade and Alfonso Valencia.
1998.
Auto-matic extraction of keywords from scientific text: ap-plication to the knowledge domain of protein families.Bioinformatics, 14(7):600?607.Andreas Doms and Michael Schroeder.
2005.
GoP-ubMed: exploring PubMed with the Gene Ontology.Nucleid Acid Research, 33:w783?w786.Robert Hoffman and Alfonso Valencia.
2005.
Imple-menting the iHOP concept for navigation of biomedi-cal literature.
Bioinformatics, 21:ii252?ii258.Ying Liu, Martin Brandon, Shamkant Navathe, Ray Din-gledine, and Brian J. Ciliax.
2004.
Text miningfunctional keywords associated with genes.
MedInfo,11:292?296.Hongfang Liu, Zhang-Zhiu Hu, Jian Zhang, and CathyWu.
2005.
Biothesaurus: a web-based thesaurus ofprotein and gene names.
Bioinformatics, 22(1):103?105.Dietrich Rebholz-Schuhmann, Harald Kirsch, MiguelArregui, Sylvain Gaudan, Mark Riethoven, and PeterStoehr.
2006.
EBIMed - text crunching to gather factsfor proteins from Medline.
Bioinformatics, 23:e237?e244.29
