From TUNA Attribute Sets to Portuguese Text: a First ReportDaniel Bastos Pereira Ivandr?
ParaboniEscola de Artes, Ci?ncias e Humanidades Escola de Artes, Ci?ncias e HumanidadesUniversity of S?o Paulo ?
USP University of S?o Paulo - USPAv.
Arlindo Bettio, 1000 - S?o Paulo, Brazil Av.
Arlindo Bettio, 1000 - S?o Paulo, Brazildaniel.bastos@usp.br ivandre@usp.brAbstractThis document describes the development of asurface realisation component for the Portu-guese language that takes advantage of thedata and evaluation tools provided by theREG-2008 team.
At this initial stage, ourwork uses simple n-gram statistics to producedescriptions in the Furniture domain, with lit-tle or no linguistic variation.
Preliminary re-sults suggest that, unlike the generation ofEnglish descriptions, contextual informationmay be required to account for Portugueseword order.1 IntroductionIn this work we describe a surface realisation com-ponent for Portuguese definite descriptions usingthe data and evaluation tool provided as part of theREG-2008 Challenge.
However, given the differ-ences between language and a number of projectdecisions discussed below, the present results arenot suitable for comparison with the work done bythe actual task participants, and it should be re-garded simply as an ongoing effort to generate andevaluate Portuguese descriptions using similarstandards.2 System DescriptionOur work is a simple application of n-gram statis-tics to surface realisation.
Two independent anno-tators started by producing individual lists of themost likely phrases that could possibly be associ-ated with every attribute?value pair in the corpus.Since at this initial stage we are only considering1-to-n relations (i.e., each phrase is the realisationof exactly one attribute-value pair) the mappingannotation was straightforward.
More complex (m-to-n) cases ?
those in which two or more propertiesmay combine to form a single text unit (e.g., theproperties of being human, young and male may berealised simply as ?a young man?
or even as ?aboy?)
?
will be discussed elsewhere.Given a TUNA attribute set as an input, wecompute all (unordered) sets of phrases that corre-spond to a possible description, including gendervariations.
Next, we compute all possible permuta-tions of each phrase set that matched a pre-defineddescription template suitable to Portuguese phraseorder, once again with gender variation.
As a re-sult, even a simple attribute set as in ?the large redtable?
would have at least eight possible realisa-tions in Portuguese, although only a few can beconsidered well-formed and likely to be uttered forthe purpose of identification.
The final task of se-lecting the most likely output string is left to asimple bigram language model built from a 40-million words corpus of Brazilian Portuguesenewspaper articles.3 Preliminary EvaluationWe produced a surface realisation form for each ofthe 80 instances of Portuguese descriptions in theREG-2008 development data.
Overall, 32 instances(40%) of descriptions were incorrectly generated.The major source of errors was the lack of com-plete gender agreement, since our simple bigram-based model cannot handle long-distance depend-232encies appropriately, as in ?o sof?
grande ver-melha?, in which the gender agreement between?sof??
(masculine) and ?vermelha?
(feminine)could not be established.
We believe that this couldbe easily fixed had we used a more expressive lan-guage model instead.Two independent annotators built a Portuguesereference set by manually translating each of the80 descriptions in the development data set andtaking into account the possible phrase realisationsdefined earlier.
More specifically, we produced a?normalized?
reference set, removing much of thenoise that naturally occurs in the raw data.
Thisincluded a number of likely errors (e.g., ?red chairin center red?
), meta-attributes (e.g., ?first pictureon third row?
), illegal attributes (e.g.., ?the greydesk with drawers?
), differences in specificity(e.g., ?shown from the side?
as a less specific al-ternative to both ?facing left?
and ?facing right?values) and synonymy (e.g., ?facing the viewer?
asan alternative to ?facing forward?).
Moreover,given that definiteness cannot be worked out fromthe attribute set alne, all indefinite descriptionswere changed to definite.Regarding the usefulness of this modified refer-ence set, there are a number of due observations:firstly, given the differences between languages,our reference data set is not to be regarded as aresource for investigating language use as theoriginal TUNA data set is intended to be, but ratheras a standard of acceptable performance for a prac-tical Portuguese NLG system.
Moreover, since thetranslated descriptions were not produced in realsituations of reference, we are aware that our re-sults are  not directly comparable to, e.g., the workcarried out in the REG-2008 challenge for evaluat-ing English descriptions, and that would remain thecase even without normalization.On the other hand, although the result of bothtranslation and normalization tasks is a somewhatsimplified set of Portuguese descriptions, this isnot to say that these descriptions are tailored tomatch those that we intend to generate.
In fact, oneof the goals in the normalization task was to retainthe most appropriate instances of reference, whichincluded a large number of cases that we are notpresently able to produce, e.g., those combiningthe x-dimension and y-dimension attributes in sin-gle references to corners, as in ?in the upper rightcorner?.
Figure 1 summarizes our findings for the80 instances of descriptions in the Furniture do-main.FurnitureString Accuracy 0.26String-edit dist.
3.26Figure 1.
Portuguese descriptions (Furniture domain)4 Final RemarksOne striking difference between system descrip-tions and the reference set was the word order ofPortuguese adjectives.
To our surprise, it is notclear in which order attributes such as colour andsize should be combined in Portuguese definitedescriptions.
For example, ?a large red table?could be realised either as type + colour + size(e.g., ?a mesa vermelha, grande? )
or as type + size+ colour (e.g., ?a mesa grande, vermelha?).
Asboth alternatives seem equally acceptable, thechoice may depend on which property contrastseach of the distractors in the situation of reference.Whilst the present ambiguity reveals a weakness inour artificially-built reference set, it may also sug-gest that a much more sophisticated approach toPortuguese realisation is called-for, especially ifcompared to the generation of English descriptionswhose word order seems fairly standard.
We be-lieve that further investigation on this issue is stillrequiredAcknowledgmentsThis work has been partially supported by CNPq-Brazil (484015/2007-9), FAPESP (2006/03941-7)and Ensinar com Pesquisa / USP.ReferencesGatt, A.; I. van der Sluis, and K. van Deemter (2007)Evaluating algorithms for the generation of referringexpressions using a balanced corpus.
11th EuropeanWorkshop on Natural Language Generation 49?56.van Deemter, K.; I. van der Sluis and A. Gatt (2006)Building a semantically transparent corpus for thegeneration of referring expressions.
4th InternationalConference on Natural Language Generation.233
