What?s In a Message?
Interpreting Geo-referenced Data for theVisually-impairedKavita E. ThomasDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of AberdeenAberdeen, Scotlandtkavita@abdn.ac.ukSomayajulu SripadaDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of AberdeenAberdeen, Scotlandyaji.sripada@abdn.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper we describe content determina-tion issues involved in the Atlas.txt project,which aims to automatically describe geo-referenced information such as census data astext for the visually-impaired (VI).
Texts com-municating geo-referenced census informa-tion contain census data abstractions and theircorresponding geographic references.
Be-cause visually impaired users find interpretinggeographic references hard, we hypothesizedthat an introduction message about the under-lying geography should help the users to in-terpret the geographic references easily.
Weperformed user studies to design and evaluatethe introduction message.
An initial evalua-tion study with several sighted users and onepartially sighted user showed that an introduc-tion message is certainly preferred by mostparticipants.
Many of them used an introduc-tion message themselves when they describedmaps textually.
But the study also showedthat the introduction message made no differ-ence when the participants were asked to drawmaps using the information in the textual de-scriptions.1 IntroductionAtlas.txt is a data-to-text natural language gener-ation (NLG) system which aims to communicategeo-referenced information to VI people.
Geo-referenced data are data which has a geographiccomponent, and is distributed over a region on Earth.Such data is often visualised as thematic maps, asshown in Figure 1, where colour shading indicatesdensity of distribution, so that dark or intense re-gions on such maps indicate where the variable, forexample unemployment, is most frequently located.Geo-referenced data is frequently stored in long datatables which hinder VI users, who must rely onscreenreaders to read out the values in the data ta-ble, from quickly and easily forming an overview ofhow the data is distributed.
For example, althoughthe table corresponding to Figure 1 only has 31 rows(corresponding to the 31 council areas of Scotland),VI users still need to listen to each of these valuesand remember them in order to form a mental pic-ture of the overall trends in population distributionwhich sighted users can infer from the map in undera minute.
Furthermore, tables do not communicatewhere regions are located.
This means that althoughthey might be able to pick out maxima and minima,inferring trends is a much harder task, and mentallyvisualising how the data is distributed is impossiblefor unfamiliar areas given named locations in tables.Atlas.txt aims to automatically interpret this tabu-lar geo-referenced data and communicate its centralinformation as texts which can then be read out toVI users via a screenreading application.
We startby describing some of the issues involved in com-municating geo-referenced information in the cen-sus domain.
Then we address content determinationissues in the system and present some user needsrequirements for communicating geo-referenced in-formation to VI users, principle among which is theneed for texts to enable mentally visualising the re-gion and how the data is distributed.
This motivatesour decision to include introduction messages whichdescribe the region before communicating how the113Figure 1: A typical map showing geo-referenced datadata is distributed, and present an experiment intothis choice, focusing on evaluating whether intro-duction messages are beneficial.2 Related WorkSystems which generate descriptions of numeri-cal data are not uncommon, e.g., the FOG system(Goldberg et al 1994), TREND (Boyd, 1997) andMULTI-METEO (Coch, 1998) all generate textualsummaries of numerical weather data.
(Ferres etal, 2006) generates textual descriptions of informa-tion in graphs and enables user querying.
SumTime1summarises time-series data and RoadSafe2 gener-ates travel advisories and looks at spatial time-seriesdata.
While there is no prior work on generating tex-tual descriptions of geo-referenced data, there havebeen studies on describing spatial data in the contextof route directions ((Geldof, 2003), (Marciniak andStrube, 2004)), scene descriptions (Novak, 1986),geometric descriptions (Mitkov, 1990) and spatialdescriptions (Ebert et al 1996).Data-to-text generation projects like Atlas.txt dif-fer from the traditional three-stage pipeline genera-tion architecture of most NLG systems (Reiter andDale, 2000) because they need to analyse the datain order to determine data abstractions before thengoing on to the traditional three stages of documentplanning, micro-planning and realisation, as was putforward by (Sripada, Reiter et al 2001).
Contentdetermination has been described as involving a col-lective classification problem (Barzilay and Lapata,1More information can be found athttp://www.csd.abdn.ac.uk/research/sumtime.2See http://www.csd.abdn.ac.uk/research/roadsafe.2005) and in the context of data-to-text systems.Since our system involves data-to-text NLG, contentdetermination has more in common with the two-stage process of (Sripada, Reiter et al 2001) thanthe classification process of (Barzilay and Lapata,2005).
However a notable difference between ourdomain and the meteorology domain described in(Sripada, Reiter et al 2001), is that for us, arriv-ing at an overview before communicating the data tothe end-user involves not just data analysis but alsoscene description to aid in our visualisation goal.3 Content Determination in Atlas.txtSystemThe Atlas.txt system aims to be able to take geo-referenced data in tabular form, perform data analy-sis to determine significant features in the data, andthen communicate these significant features via text.Data analysis for Atlas.txt involves clustering to findregions in the geography with similar values of cen-sus variable.
Data analysis also involves trending tofind spatial trends in the data.
Information obtainedfrom data analysis forms the input to the content de-termination module.In order to select which information to communi-cate (i.e., content selection), we ran a corpus studyon online census texts to try and determine whatmessages they communicate (Thomas and Sripada,2008).
Of course, these documents are not writtenfor the VI user group.
On the other hand, withoutevidence to the contrary, we cannot assume that VIusers require census information (i.e., census statis-tics) that is different from what sighted users require.But VI users do need additional content that helpsthem to interpret any geographic references associ-ated with census information.
An experiment con-ducted in Ottawa on a group of 5 blind and 5 sightedparticipants indicated that both blind and sightedparticipants (without access to a map) need addi-tional information to ground proper name referenceto unfamiliar places.
Because we did not find ex-amples of these kind in our corpus texts, we hy-pothesised that all texts produced by Atlas.txt sys-tem should start with what we called an ?introduc-tion?
messages which help VI users to interpret geo-graphic information better.This means, we need knowledge of two kinds of114messages for building Atlas.txt, ones that communi-cate census information and the others that help VIusers understand the geography better.
Designingthe first type of census messages requires a good un-derstanding of user goals.
We have noticed a broadrange of goals census users have, and we consider anumber of use cases illustrating particular user goalsbelow:1.
You want to buy a house somewhere safe, i.e.,with a low crime rate, and within commutingdistance of City X.2.
You want to start a business selling expensivefurniture and you want to pick a location nearpotential clientele who are profiled as wealthybased on income level data.This illustrates the huge range of purposes peoplemight have when accessing census data, and manyof these examples were found via online documentson census uses.3 We determined which content tocommunicate from the data in this domain by con-sidering both evidence from use cases like the onesabove and also online census documents.
In manyonline census documents there is no correspondingdata available in tabular form.
This could be becausethe information in different modalities is intended tobe complimentary rather than equivalent.
The lackof corresponding data in most cases makes it hard tolearn what sorts of results constitute interesting datawhich should be reported.
From a qualitative studyof corpus documents, we notice that most such textsat the least describe where the variable they focus on(e.g., unemployment) has its high values, low val-ues, and spatial trends of the variable?s distributionif there are any.
Some scenarios require additionalinformation, e.g., the vicinity of a major road, thecoast, a city, etc.
We aim for a scenario-generic so-lution for now as a first step given that the system isnot interactive.
However we hope that communicat-ing the basic statistics in a meaningful way (i.e., viauseful spatial expressions) and also introducing theregion and its salient features will improve accessi-bility to this information.
The goal of such a system3Business Uses of Census Data:www.incontext.indiana.edu/2001/july01/spotlight.html, Usesof Census Data: www.laria.gov.uk/content/articles/2003conference pdf/boag.pdfis of course to eventually become interactive so thatit can eventually address users?
specific goals andanswer more specific questions about how the datais distributed.
As explained above Atlas.txt includesthe following census messages:?
Maxima message: location/s of high valuesfrom Data Analysis?
Minima message: location/s of low values fromData Analysis?
Trend message: location/s of trends from DataAnalysisAll these census messages make explicit referencesto geographic locations which are hard to interpretfor VI users.
We assume that the introduction mes-sages introduced earlier enable hearers to visualisethe underlying geography which helps them to makesense of spatial descriptions in census messages.The introduction message also gives a general sum-mary by communicating the overall average value-range of the data (e.g., ?Overall, unemployment fre-quencies are low?
), inspired by Gestalt principlesof grouping in perception (Metzger, 2006) and thevisual information seeking mantra (Schneiderman,1996) which argues that one should start with anoverview, zoom and filter, and only provide detailsupon demand (the latter of which is only applicableto interactive systems).
The following componentsof introduction messages are currently considered:?
Boundary geographic information, which indi-cates geographic features which bound the re-gion as a whole on any side?
Gestalt-driven overview of data (average value-range)?
Location of where population is densestIn order to communicate the boundary geographicinformation, we ran a survey eliciting spatial de-scriptions of Aberdeenshire which indicated thatpeople?s spatial descriptions when presented with acensus map seem to fall into the following three cat-egories of geographic information:?
Human geography: cities, roads, towns, ur-ban/rural distinctions, census ward boundaries,etc.115?
Physical geography: lakes, mountains, sea,desert, etc.?
Orientation geography: cardinal directionsIn other words, we saw many descriptions whichused terms like ?urban?, ?rural?, which pointedout major roads as indicators of where populationmight be denser, and also many of the descriptionswhich referred to areas as ?coastal?, ?inland?, ?
[inthe] hills?, etc.
Cardinal directions (e.g., ?North?,?Southwest?, etc.)
were also frequently used tolocate phenomena and are absolute coordinates inthe survey frame of reference involved in Atlas.txt,which describes maps from a bird?s eye view, (Tay-lor and Tversky, 1996).Determining salient geographic informationwhich describes where maxima, minima and trendsare involves overlaying the clusters (and ends oftrends) with geographic layers in the human andphysical geographies discussed above.
Then if wefind that any of the geographic elements containedin any of the geographic overlays aligns spatiallywith the cluster, we add this to a list of multiplepossible spatial expressions which can be used todescribe the location of the cluster.
Appropriatelydescribing clusters via selecting informative spatialexpressions is a central aspect of communicatingthe maximum, minimum and trend messages.Overlaying different layers like this is a stan-dard ?intersect overlay?
operation in GeographicInformation Systems (GIS) and data containingaltitude information, urban/road information andphysical geography exist online which can beused as the alignment layers in a GIS.
We want toselect features which intersect our clusters evenminimally, as they help to describe where featuresare located.
If no intersecting regions exist, wechoose the nearest.
Note that the layers consideredall fall within the different geographic types, i.e.,human and physical geographies.
Orientationinformation does not require overlaying maps toidentify which parts are North, etc.
Orientationinformation can be calculated for the region inquestion by overlaying it with a square 8 by 8 gridfor the various cardinal directions.
The locationof the maxima and minima clusters can then bedescribed as lying in a particular cardinal directionby simply checking which square/s of the grid theyfall in.
Determining cardinal direction has beenimplemented in the Roadsafe project.In future we will consider how to handle situa-tions in which multiple possible features intersect(or are near to) our clusters, which will involveus ranking some of these features higher than oth-ers.
We will also want to consider the effects ofother factors than proximity on selection of spa-tial descriptions, e.g., discourse context and causal-ity could affect the choice of spatial description.The results from our survey eliciting spatial de-scriptions of Aberdeen showed more spatial de-scriptions from the human geography (58%) thanfrom the physical geography (42%).
The survey in-volved a between-subjects design where the 24 par-ticipants were blocked into 3 groups, one group get-ting coarse maps with only 3 or 4 large wards cover-ing all of Aberdeenshire while the other two groupshad medium (around 28 wards) and fine grainedmaps (around 50 wards) covering the shire.
Coarse-grained maps had higher percentages of scores forphysical geography descriptions than for human ge-ography descriptions (62% vs. 37%) while bothmedium and fine-grained maps had larger percent-ages for human geography descriptions (62% and57% respectively).
There were also a higher num-ber of human descriptions used per turn on average,4.2 vs. 2.6 for physical descriptions.Most census variables describe information whichpertains to human populations, (e.g., unemploymentstatistics, or employment in hunting, agriculture andforestry in our survey), indicating that human geo-graphic features might be causally linked to mostcensus data.
As was indicated in our initial sur-vey, human geographic features like the locations ofcities and roads seem to be most related to these pop-ulation variables and might form the most meaning-ful description for the hearer, since they may helpthe hearer to infer useful correlations between thepresence of (e.g.)
a maxima and a geographic fea-ture.
However there might also be correlations be-tween physical geographic features and these vari-ables, for example, logging in forests, fishing indus-try in coastal areas, etc.Context will certainly also play a large role, e.g.,if the prior message uses a description from thephysical geography (e.g., ?coastal?
), this might re-sult in ?inland?
being preferred over ?urban?, par-116ticularly if the messages have opposite content (e.g.,one reports maxima while the other reports minima).We also saw that participants tended to mix ge-ographies more often than not, involving both physi-cal and human geography descriptions in their texts,as 60% of the number of turns which had descrip-tions from both geographies.
Describing cluster lo-cations with two geographies leads to sentences like?Unemployment is highest in rural and coastal ar-eas,?
which leads to a range of inferences about howcoastal and rural areas might be similar where unem-ployment is concerned.
Mixed geography descrip-tions are more informative, since they convey addi-tional information, so our view is that extra descrip-tors, particularly if they come from other geogra-phies, will only clarify and help listeners to groundthe locations of clusters.So the content determination module takes thedocument plan containing the four messages to becommunicated and gets the locations of maxima,minima and trends (which come from data analysis).These are then overlaid with data of the area contain-ing physical or human geographies for the region.Proximity is our current selection factor, so align-ing features are currently selected if they intersect(though as discussed earlier, if no features intersect,the nearest ones are chosen) and are saved as possi-ble spatial expressions to be used in the message.
Infuture work we will also need to account for causal-ity and context in this selection of appropriate spatialdescriptions.4 EvaluationUnlike many of the other data-to-text systems de-scribed, the Atlas.txt system?s goal is much moregeneral.
Rather than generating specific texts forspecific audiences with particular expertise and tasksin mind, this project aims to communicate censusdata to a VI audience of varying expertise who, un-like for most other NLG systems, have a range oftasks in mind.
As we argued earlier, the messageswe choose to communicate enable the vast major-ity of users to at least get an overview of the salientfeatures in the data and we leave more specific in-formational requirements for an interactive versionof Atlas.txt.One issue that arises for a broad-focus non-task-specific domain like this is that evaluation methodsare not as well-specified as for other NLG systemsfor content determination.
(Dale and Mellish, 1998)present four questions one can ask when evaluat-ing content determination: (1) truth (is the outputtrue), (2) quantity?does the output say enough, (3)quantity?does the output say too much, and (4) ap-propriateness (is the output inappropriate to the con-text).
But what if we want to ask the more high levelquestion of utility?
That is, do we really need theintroduction message (assuming it is not mislead-ing)?
The two quantity considerations?have we saidtoo much or too little?are probably the best ways toguage whether the introduction message is informa-tive enough (and not too verbose).
But again, thisis a bit too fine-grained for us, as we want to firstask whether the introduction message is necessaryor not in the first place before attempting to refineits contents.The general-purpose task aspect of this domainalso implies that we cannot compare our texts withan expert?s texts based on the underlying data, as it isdifficult to find simple summarising expert-writtencensus texts online.
The vast majority of censustexts are far longer than ours and tend to discuss theimplications of what the data presents which is be-yond our scope.
Furthermore, we cannot compareAtlas.txt output against expert-written text becausethere is no expert-produced parallel data where textssummarise the information contained in tables ormaps.
Also, experts (statisticians) are not used tosummarising tables as simple, general-purpose textslike this and they vary in the sorts of texts theyproduce.
Our experiment in Ottawa indicated thatdifferent statisticians employed at Statistics Canadavary both in terms of the analyses they make ofboth tabular and textual census data (under experi-mental conditions) and in their post-edits of expert-written census texts (Thomas and Sripada, 2008).This means that we need to rethink how we shouldevaluate Atlas.txt?s texts.4.1 StudyGiven that instructions rich in imagery help sub-jects to form a spatial mental model (Gyselinck etal, 2006), our end goal is to discover if introduc-tion messages actually aid in visualisation.
Giventhe lack of conclusive evidence to the contrary, we117operate under the premise that VI people have spa-tial comprehension abilities (Kitchin et al 1997) andcan benefit from texts which enable visualisation.We run the study with sighted people because theycan draw maps which they visualise from our texts.We ran a study which presented a group of 20 ran-domly recruited sighted participants with a pair oftexts where one member of the pair included the in-troduction message and the other member did notinclude the introduction message.
The introduc-tion message contains the two geographic elementswe discussed earlier: locations of boundary infor-mation, the location of where population is densestand the trend for population density.
The messageswere identical in content (though names and direc-tions were changed so that participants would notassume that the same country was being described),and both texts have a maxima, minima and trendmessage (each), as can be seen in Examples 1 and2 below:1.
The land of Bosk is bounded to the East bythe Bale Ocean, and its largest city is Wrist-wath, on the East coast.
Population is densestaround Wristwath and gradually decreases asone moves Westward, though there are clustersof medium-high population in cities like Slan-gin in Central Bosk.
Crime rates are highestin Wristwath and Southern suburbs of Wrist-wath.
Additionally, Slangin also has high crimerates.
Crime is lowest in Northwestern andEast-Central Bosk.
Crime tends to decrease asone goes East or West from Central Bosk withthe exception of the Wristwath area.2.
Poverty rates are highest in Galen and Westernsuburbs of Galen.
Additionally, Boroos alsohas high poverty rates.
Poverty rates are low-est in Northwestern and East-Central Dagor.Poverty rates tends to decrease as one goes Eastor West from Central Dagor with the exceptionof the Galen area.For each text, participants were asked to draw a mapof the area they visualise based on the text, indicat-ing where the maxima and minima are and where allother information mentioned in the text is located.Then they were asked two task-based questions pertext which aim to check whether they can use theinformation appropriately.
The first question askswhether they can identify the minima/maxima, e.g.,?You want to relocate to Bosk.
Considering onlycrime rates, where might you want to move??
Thesecond question gives them a piece of additional in-formation which sighted people would be able topick off from the map, e.g., that there is a coastline,harbours, roads, etc., e.g., ?You work in Wristwathand need to commute in daily.
Given this and theabove info, where might you want to live in Bosk?
?After each of the two pairs of texts and questions,participants are asked to indicate which text was eas-ier to visualise and to state why.
Participants werealso presented with two thematic maps and asked towrite descriptions of them so that someone who isblind can visualise them.We hypothesized that Ex.2 above will cause dif-ficulties for map drawing.
There is no introduc-tion message helping readers to orient themselves tothe region, and one does not know a priori whetherGalen is the name of a city or the region itself, orwhere it is in the region if it is indeed a city.
Thismight seem purposefully difficult, but this is whatone typically finds in census texts online.
For exam-ple, if you want to know where in Canada Saskatoonis, you need to look it up in a map.
This makes ithard (even for sighted people) when you read manyunfamiliar place names and are trying to get an over-all picture of where places are.4.2 Results and DiscussionThe maps drawn for the text stimuli are scored ona number of features, but the primary goal is to as-certain whether readers visualised the locations ofthe maximum, minimum and trend correctly.
Eachtext is based on an underlying map which is used asthe gold standard against which participants?
mapsare compared.
This gold standard map includes arange of variation in location of maximum, mini-mum and trend based on the ambiguity present in thetext.
For example, ?East-Central?
in Ex.
2 is hardto define.
Participants were given a point each forcorrectly identifying the maximum, minimum andtrend in each message, or a zero if they failed to doso correctly or if their answer was uninterpretable.These three scores were also totalled giving a totalscore per text for the maps drawn.
Here we did notsee a huge difference in scores for the different mes-118Table 1: Average & std.
deviation scores for map drawingText Maximum Minimum Trend TotalText 1 1; 0 0.80; 0.41 0.80; 0.41 0.87; 0.23Text 2 0.85; 0.37 0.70; 0.47 0.65; 0.49 0.73; 0.32sages, as can be seen in the table; Text 1 has an in-troduction message (and is seen in Ex.
1) and Text2 (Ex.
2) lacks the introduction message.
The to-tal column corresponds to the average score for thethree messages (maximum, minimum and trend).
At-test on the total scores for Texts 1 and 2 gives anon-significant result with a p-value of 0.110.
Onthe other hand, almost all the participants preferredText 1 to Text 2; a signed ranks test on the prefer-ence judgements (participants ticked which text theypreferred, 1 or 2) was significant with a p-value <0.001.
When asked to state their reasons for pre-ferring Text 1, participants identified the geographicinformation from the introduction message as theonly reason.
Also when participants wrote texts formap stimuli they tended to include introduction mes-sages in them; a binomial test on whether introduc-tion messages were included in either of their twotexts was significant with a p-value < 0.041.
Inter-estingly enough, shape was a feature used in manyof these introduction messages when the map hada particularly non-square shape.
In the part of theexperiment where participants answered task-basedquestions based on texts with and without introduc-tion messages they performed well on all questionsfollowing both types of texts.It is encouraging that participants preferred textswith introduction messages and also used them intheir own texts.
But it is disappointing that the ab-sence of introduction messages seems to make nodifference to mental visualisation of Text 2.
In fact,many of the maps for Text 2 were incomplete; par-ticipants simply marked the required informationand their nearby geographic entities.
The problemwith evaluating maps is that they partly measure thegeometrical relationships in the map which couldbias such evaluations against participants with poordrawing skills.
Poor drawing skills could also ob-scure whether they have visualised the correct infor-mation.Many participants said that drawing the map andaccounting for all of the information contained inthe introduction message was very difficult, so theremight have additionally been some cognitive over-load on drawing maps for Text 1 which biased theresults in favour of Text 2.
Generally all the partic-ipants complained that the whole experiment tooklonger than they had expected.
This indicates thatthe texts were challenging enough and not triv-ial.
(Murray, 1979) claims that there are variationsamong people?s ability to draw mentally visualisedgeographic information, indicating that evaluatingelicited maps might have a large amount of indi-vidual variation.
Ideally we need to find alternativeways (other than eliciting map drawing) of assessingthe effectiveness of introduction messages.Other factors could also have affected these re-sults.
For example, we did not randomise the orderof stimuli.
Furthermore, our task-based questionsproved too easy for participants because they can beanswered by simply searching for the named regionwith the highest value etc.
Another issue which wewill want to explore in future work is whether us-ing spatial descriptions (e.g., ?a medium-sized city?instead of ?Slangin?
from Text 1, etc.)
in both textswould have helped people to make more sense of thetexts, particularly Text 2.We also ran the text stimuli of the experiment witha VI computing undergraduate who clearly indicatedthat the texts without the introduction message weremuch harder to visualise, as he did not know wherethe cities (referred to by proper name alone) werelocated.
He also indicated that some information re-quired to partially visualise the region could be in-ferred indirectly from information presented in thesetexts lacking introduction messages.
For example, inEx.
2, he could deduce that poverty rates are high inCentral Dagor, since it decreases as one goes Eastor West from Central Dagor.
However there was notenough information for him to place Boroos in Cen-tral Dagor.5 Conclusions and Future DirectionsIn this paper we describe how content determinationin Atlas.txt is achieved and report on evaluation ofone message in our content determination schema:the introduction message.
Our end goal is to en-able VI users to mentally visualise the region beingdescribed in order to locate where areas with high119and low values of the census variable described areand also to visualise spatial trends for this variablein the region.
In order to evaluate whether intro-duction messages in our texts help users to mentallyvisualise the region, we elicited drawings of mapsvisualised by sighted participants based on our textswith and without the introduction message.
This wasbased on the assumption that VI people also havespatial cognition abilities, and because sighted par-ticipants can draw the maps they visualise.
We didnot see a significant difference between texts withand without introduction messages from the eliciteddrawings of maps which were scored on the correctlocations of maximum, minimum and trend informa-tion.
However we saw that participants overwhelm-ingly preferred texts with introduction messages tothose without, and also tended to include introduc-tion messages in texts describing maps when askedto describe the maps to blind readers.The question then arises as to how one should ide-ally evaluate message inclusion when communicat-ing spatial data.
Although drawing maps seemed anatural way to evaluate visualisation, we saw thatit was fraught with difficulties.
We leave the ques-tion of finding an appropriate evaluation methodol-ogy for message choice in spatial data-to-text sys-tems such as ours for future work.Evaluating the utility of the individual compo-nents of the introduction message has also been leftas future work.
Furthermore, we also plan on inves-tigating the factors involved in selecting descriptiongeographies, e.g., causality and context, in order toproduce informative spatial descriptions in our mes-sages.ReferencesR.
Barzilay and M. Lapata.
2005.
Collective Content Selectionfor Concept-to-text Generation.
Human Language Technol-ogy Conference.S.
Boyd.
1997.
Detecting and Describing Patterns in Time-varying Data Using Wavelets.
Advances in Intelligent DataAnalysis: Reasoning About Data, Lecture Notes in Com-puter Science, 1280.J.
Coch.
1998.
Multimeteo: Multilingual Production ofWeather Forecasts.
ELRA Newsletter, 3(2).R.
Dale and C. Mellish.
1998.
Towards the Evaluation of Nat-ural Language Generation.
Proceedings of the First Interna-tional Conference on Evaluation of Natural Language Pro-cessing Systems.C.
Ebert, D. Glatz, M. Jansche, R. Meyer-Klabunde and R.Porzel.
1996.
From Conceptualization to Formulation inGenerating Spatial Descriptions.
Proceedings fo the 5th Eu-ropean Conference on Cognitive Modelling.L.
Ferres, A. Parush, S. Roberts and G. Lindgaard.
2006.
Help-ing People with Visual Impairments Gain Access to Graph-ical Information Through Natural Language: The iGraphSystem.
Proceedings of ICCHP 2006, Lecture Notes inComputer Science, 4061.S.
Geldof.
2003.
Corpus Analysis for NLG.
Proceedings of the9th EWNLG.E.
Goldberg, N. Driedger and R.L.
Kittredge.
1994.
UsingNatural-Language Processing to Produce Weather Forecasts.IEEE Expert, 9(2).V.
Gyselinck, R. De Beni, F. Pazzaglia, C. Meneghetti and A.Mondoloni.
2006.
Spatial Knowledge Acquisition fromMaps and from Navigation in Real and Virtual Environ-ments.
Memory and Cognition, 27.R.
Kitchin, M. Blades and R. Golledge.
1997.
UnderstandingSpatial Concepts at the Geographic Scale Without the Use ofVision.
Human Geography, 21(2).T.
Marciniak and M. Strube.
2004.
Classification-based Gener-ation Using TAG.
Proceedings of Natural Language Gener-ation: 3rd International Conference, Lecture Notes in Artifi-cial Intelligence, 3123.W.
Metzger.
2006.
Laws of Seeing.
MIT Press.R.
Mitkov.
1990.
A Text-Generation System for ExplainingConcepts in Geometry.
Proceedings of the 13th Conferenceon Computational Linguistics.D.
Murray and C. Spencer.
1979.
Individual Differences inthe Drawing of Cognitive Maps: the Effects of Geographi-cal Mobility, Strength of Mental Imagery and Basic GraphicAbility.
Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers,New Series, Vol.4, No.3.H.J.
Novak.
1986.
Generating a Coherent Text Describing aTraffic Scene.
Proceedings of the 11th Conference on Com-putational Linguistics.E.
Reiter and R. Dale.
2000.
Building Natural Language Gen-eration Systems.
Cambridge University Press.B.
Schneiderman.
1996.
The Eyes Have It: A Task by DataType Taxonomy for Information Visualisations.
Proceed-ings of Visual Language.S.
Sripada, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter and J. Yu.
2001.
A Two-StageModel for Content Determination.
Proceedings of the 8thACL-EWNLG.S.
Sripada, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter and J. Yu.
2003.
Exploiting aParallel TEXT-DATA Corpus.
Proceedings of Corpus Lin-guistics.H.
Taylor and B. Tversky.
1996.
Perspective in Spatial De-scriptions.
Journal of Memory and Language, vol.
35.K.
Thomas and S. Sripada.
2008.
Atlas.txt: First Steps TowardsBridging the Gap Between Geo-Referenced Data and Text.Proceedings of the Cross-Disciplinary Conference on WebAccessibility.J.
Yu, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter and C. Mellish.
2005.
Choosingthe Content of Textual Summaries of Large Time-series DataSets.
Natural Language Engineering, vol.
11.120
