Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Issues in Teaching Computational Linguistics (TeachCL-08), pages 87?96,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe North American Computational Linguistics Olympiad (NACLO)Dragomir R. Radev Lori S. Levin Thomas E. PayneSI, EECS, and Linguistics Language Technologies Institute Department of LinguisticsUniversity of Michigan Carnegie-Mellon University University of Oregonradev@umich.edu lsl@cs.cmu.edu tpayne@uoregon.eduAbstract1 IntroductionNACLO (North American Computational Linguis-tics Olympiad) is an annual Olympiad-style contestfor high school students, focusing on linguistics,computational linguistics, and language technolo-gies.The goal of NACLO is to increase participationin these fields by introducing them before studentsreach college.
Since these subjects are not nor-mally taught in high school, we do not expect stu-dents to have any background of these areas beforethe contest.
The contest consists of self-containedproblems that can be solved with analytical think-ing, but in the course of solving each problem, thestudents learn something about a language, culture,linguistic phenomenon, or computational tool.The winners of NACLO are eligible to partici-pate in the International Linguistics Olympiad aspart of the US team.1.1 History of the LO and ILOThe International Olympiad in Linguistics is oneof twelve international Science Olympiads (theothers include Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry,Biology, Informatics, Philosophy, Astronomy, Ge-ography, and Earth Science).
It has existed since2003 and has, so far, been held exclusively inEurope (Russia, Estonia, Bulgaria, and the Nether-lands).
ILO 2007 took place in Zelenogorsk nearSt.
Petersburg, Russia whereas ILO 2008 will be inSlantchev Bryag near Burgas, Bulgaria.
ILO 2009will be held in Poland.Individual national linguistics Olympiads havebeen held in Russia since 1965 (based on an initia-tive by Andrey Zaliznyak) and in other countriesmore recently1.
Recently, a collection of problemsfrom different decades appeared in Russian (Be-likov et al, 2007).1.2 Linguistics Contests in the USThomas Payne pioneered LO-style competitionsin the USA by organizing three consecutive con-tests for middle and high school students in theEugene, Oregon area in 1998-2000.
In the courseof publicizing NACLO, we have discovered thatother local linguistics contests have taken place inTennessee, San Jose, and New York City.1.3 Origin of NACLONACLO began with a planning workshopfunded by NSF in September 2006.
The attendeesincluded faculty and graduate students from aboutten universities as well as representatives fromNSF and ACL.
Two high school teachers werepresent.
The workshop opened with presentationsfrom organizers of other Olympiads and contests inlinguistics and computer programming.
In particu-lar we received excellent advice from Ivan Derz-hanski, representing the International LinguisticsOlympiad, and Boris Iomdin, representing theMoscow Olympiad.
The remainder of the work-shop dealt with scheduling the first contest, elect-1The first author of this paper participated in the Bulgariannational LO in the early 1980s.87ing committee chairs, and making organizationaldecisions.1.4 Pedagogical goalsWe have two goals in organizing NACLO.
Wewant to increase broad participation and diversityin all language-related careers.
We want everystudent to have a fun and educational experienceand have a positive attitude toward taking linguis-tics and language technologies courses in college.However, we also want to conduct a talent searchfor the most promising future researchers in ourfield.
NACLO uses two mechanisms to be surethat we reach all levels of participation.
The firstmechanism is to separate an open round with easierproblems from an invitation-only round withharder problems.
The second mechanism is relatedto grading the problems.
Forty percent of the scoreis for a correct answer and sixty percent is for ex-plaining the answer.
The students who write themost insightful explanations are the focus of ourtalent search.When publicizing NACLO in high schools wehave been focusing on certain aspects of linguisticsand computer science.
With respect to linguistics,we emphasize that languages have rules and pat-terns that native speakers are not aware of; thatthere are procedures by which these rules and pat-terns can be discovered in your own language; andthat the same procedures can be used to discoverrules and patterns in languages other than yourown.
With respect to computer science the termcomputational thinking has been coined (Wing2006) to refer to those parts of the field that are notabout computers or programming:  thinking algo-rithmically, using abstraction to model a problem,structuring and reducing a search space, etc.1.5 Organization at the national levelNACLO has two co-chairs, currently LoriLevin, Carnegie Mellon University, and ThomasPayne, University of Oregon.
Dragomir Radev isthe program chair and team coach.
Amy Troyani,a high school teacher with board certification, isthe high school liaison and advisor on making thecontest appropriate and beneficial to high schoolstudents.NACLO has several committees.
James Puste-jovsky currently chairs the sponsorship committee.The other committees are currently unchaired, al-though we would like to thank William Lewis (out-reach and publicity) and Barbara Di Eugenio(followup) for chairing them in the first year.NACLO is not yet registered as a non-profit or-ganization and does not yet have a constitution.We would welcome assistance in these areas.The national level organization provides materi-als that are used at many local sites.
The materialsinclude a comprehensive web site(http://www.naclo.cs.cmu.edu), practiceproblems, examples of flyers and press releases,PowerPoint presentations for use in high schools,as well as contest booklets from previous competi-tions.The contest is held on the same day in all loca-tions (universities and "online" sites as describedbelow).
In 2007 there was a single round with 195participants.
In 2008 there was an open round with763 participants and an invitation-only round with115 participants.
Grading is done centrally.
Eachproblem is graded at one location to ensure consis-tency.Three national prizes are awarded for first, sec-ond, and third place.
National prizes are also givenfor the best solution to each problem.
Local hostscan also award prizes for first, second, and thirdplace at their sites based on the national scores.1.6 FundingThe main national expenses are prizes, planningmeetings, and the trip to the International Linguis-tics Olympiad (ILO).
The trip to the ILO is thelargest expense, including airfare for eight teammembers (two teams of four), a coach, and twochaperones.
The national level sponsors are theNational Science Foundation (2007, 2008), Google(2007, 2008), Cambridge University Press (2007,2008), and the North American Chapter of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (2007).The organizers constantly seek additional sponsors.1.7 Publicity before the contestAt the national level, NACLO is publicizedthrough its own web site as well as on LinguistListand Language Log.
From there, word spreadsthrough personal email and news groups.
No pressreleases have been picked up by national papersthat we know of.
Local level publicity depends onthe organization of local schools and the hosting88university's high school outreach programs.
InPittsburgh, publicity is facilitated by a central mail-ing list for gifted program coordinators in the cityand county.
Some of the other local organizers (in-cluding James Pustejosvky at Brandeis, AlinaJohnson at the University of Michigan and BarrySchiffman at Columbia University as well as sev-eral others) sent mail to literally hundreds of highschools in their areas.
Word of mouth from the2007 contest also helped reach out to more places.1.8 RegistrationNSF REU-funded Justin Brown at CMU createdan online registration site for the 2008 contestwhich proved very helpful.
Without such a site, theoverhead of dealing with close to 1,000 students,teachers, and other organizers would have beenimpossible.1.9 Participation of graduate and under-graduate studentsGraduate and undergraduate students participatein many activities including:  web site design, vis-iting high schools, formulating problems, testingproblems, advising on policy decisions, and facili-tating local competitions.2 Problem selectionWe made a difficult decision early on not to re-quire knowledge of linguistics, programming ormathematics.
Requiring these subjects would havereduced diversity in our pool of contestants as wellas its overall size.
Enrollment in high school pro-gramming classes has dropped, perhaps because ofa perception that programming jobs are not inter-esting.
NACLO does not require students to knowprogramming, but by introducing a career option, itgives them a reason to take programming classeslater.2.1 Problem typesThe NACLO problem sets include two maincategories of problems: ?traditional?
and ?compu-tational/formal?.
The ILO includes mostly tradi-tional problems which include translations fromunknown languages, glyph decoding, calendar sys-tems, kinship systems, mathematical expressionsand counting systems, among others.
The othercategory deals with linguistic phenomena (often inEnglish) as well as algorithms and formal analysesof text.2.2 Problem committeeA problem committee was formed each year towork on the creation, pre-testing, and grading ofproblems.
The members in 2007 included EmilyBender, John Blatz, Ivan Derzhanski, Jason Eisner,Eugene Fink, Boris Iomdin, Mahesh Joshi, AnaghaKulkarni, Will Lewis, Patrick Littell, Ruslan Mit-kov, Thomas Payne, James Pustejovsky, RoyTromble, and Dragomir Radev (chair).
In 2008, thefollowing people were members: Emily Bender,Eric Breck, Lauren Collister, Eugene Fink, AdamHesterberg, Joshua Katz, Stacy Kurnikova, LoriLevin, Will Lewis, Patrick Littell, DavidMortensen, Barbara Partee, Thomas Payne, JamesPustejovsky, Richard Sproat, Todor Tchervenkov,and Dragomir Radev (chair).2.3 Problem poolAt all times, the problem committee maintains apool of problems which are constantly beingevaluated and improved.
Professional linguists andlanguage technologists contribute problems orproblem ideas that reflect cutting-edges issues intheir disciplines.
These are edited and tested forage appropriateness,  and the data are thoroughlychecked with independent experts.2.4 BookletsThe three booklets (one for 2007 and two for2008) were prepared using MS Publisher.
Addi-tionally, booklets with solutions were prepared inMS Word.
All of these are available from theNACLO web site.2.5 List of problemsThis is the list of problems for NACLO 2007 (8problems) and 2008 (12 problems).
They can bedivided into two categories: traditional (2007: C,D, G and 2008: A, C, D, E, G, J, K) and for-mal/computational (2007: A, B, E, F, H and 2008:B, F, H, I, L).
The traditional problems addressedtopics such as phonology, writing systems, calen-dar systems, and cognates, among others.
Theother category included problems on stemming,89finite state automata, clustering, sentence similarityidentification, and spectrograms.2007A.
English (Molistic)B. English (Encyclopedia)C. Ancient GreekD.
HmongE.
English (Verb forms)F. English (Spelling correction)G. Huishu (Phonology)H. English (Sentence processing)2008 (A-E Open; F-L Invitational)A. Apinaye (Brazil)B. HindiC.
Ilocano (Philippines)D. Swedish and NorwegianE.
Aymara (South America)F. JapaneseG.
Manam Pile (Papua New Guinea)H. English (Stemming)I. Rotokas (Automata; Bougainville Island)J. IrishK.
Mayan (Calendar)L. English (Spectrograms)Figure 1: List of languages used in NACLO 2007 and2008.3 Contest administrationNACLO is run in a highly distributed fashion andinvolves a large number of sites across the USA inCanada.3.1 Local administrationNACLO is held at hosting universities and also"online".
The online category includes studentswho cannot get to one of the hosting universities,but instead are monitored by a teacher at a conven-ient location, usually the student's high school.There were three hosting universities (Carnegie-Mellon, Brandeis, and Cornell) in 2007 and thir-teen hosting universities (the three above + U.Michigan, U. Illinois, U. Oregon, Columbia, Mid-dle Tennessee State, San Jose State, U. Wisconsin,U.
Pennsylvania, U. Ottawa, and U. Toronto) in2008.
Any university in the US or Canada mayhost NACLO.
Local organizers are responsible forproviding a room for the contest, contacting highlocal high schools, and facilitating the contest onthe specified contest date.
Local organizers maydecide on the number of participants.
The numberof participants at the 2008 sites ranged from ahandful to almost 200 (CMU-Pitt).Local organizers may choose their level of in-vestment of time and money.
They may spendonly a few hours recruiting participants from oneor two local high schools and may spend a smallamount of money on school visits and copying.But they may also run large scale operations in-cluding extensive fundraising and publicity.
Thesite with the largest local participation, CarnegieMellon/University of Pittsburgh, donated adminis-trative staff time, invested hundreds of volunteerhours, and raised money for snacks and souvenirsfrom local sponsors2.
The CMU-Pitt site also hostsa problem club for faculty and students whereproblems are proposed, fleshed out, and tested.
Atthe University of Oregon, a seminar course wastaught on Language Task Creation (formulation ofproblems) for which university students receivedacademic credit.3.2 Remote (?online?)
sitesWe had about 65 such sites in 2008.
All localteachers and other facilitators did an amazing jobfollowing the instructions for administering thecompetition and for promptly returning the sub-missions by email or regular mail.3.3 ClarificationsDuring each of the three competitions, the jurywas online (in some cases for 8 hours in a row) toprovide live clarifications.
Each local facilitatorwas asked to be online during the contest and relayto the jury any questions from the students.
Thejury then, typically within 10 minutes, either re-plied ?no clarification needed?
(the most frequentreply) or provided an answer which was thanposted online for all facilitators to see.
We re-ceived dozens of clarifications requests at each ofthe rounds.3.4 GradingGrading was done by the PC with assistancefrom local colleagues.
To ensure grade consis-tency, each problem was assigned to a single2We are grateful to the Pittsburgh sponsors: M*Modal,Viv?simo, JustSystems Evans Research, and Carnegie Mel-lon's Leonard Gelfand Center for Service Learning and Out-reach.90grader or team of graders.
Graders were asked toprovide grading rubrics which assigned individualpoints for both ?practice?
(that is, getting the rightanswers) and ?theory?
(justifying the answers).3.5 Results from 2007195 students participated in 2007.
The winnersare shown here.
One of the students was a highschool sophomore (15 years old) while three wereseniors at the time of the 2007 NACLO.1.
Rachel Zax, Ithaca, NY2.
Ryan Musa, Ithaca, NY3.
Adam Hesterberg, Seattle, WA4.
Jeffrey Lim, Arlington, MA5.
(tie) Rebecca Jacobs, Encino, CA5.
(tie) Michael Gottlieb, Tarrytown, NY7.
(tie) Mitha Nandagopalan, San Jose, CA7.
(tie) Josh Falk, Pittsburgh, PAAlternate.
Anna Tchetchetkine, San Jose, CAFigure 2: List of team members from 2007.
Mitha wasunable to travel and was replaced by Anna Tchetchet-kine.3.6 2008 WinnersThe 2008 contest included 763 participants inthe Open Round and 115 participants in the Invita-tional Round.
The winners of the InvitationalRound are listed below.
These are the eight stu-dents who are eligible to represent the USA at the2008 ILO.
As of the writing of this paper, all eightwere available for the trip.
One of the eight is ahigh school freshman (9th grade).1.
Guy Tabachnick, New York, NY2.
Jeffrey Lim, Arlington, MA3.
Josh Falk, Pittsburgh, PA4.
Anand Natarajan, San Jose, CA5.
Jae-Kyu Lee, Andover, MA6.
Rebecca Jacobs, Encino, CA7.
Hanzhi Zhu, Shrewsbury, MA8.
Morris Alper, San Jose, CAFigure 3: List of team members from 2008.3.7 Canadian ParticipationCanada participated for the first time in 2008(about 20 students from Toronto, a handful fromOttawa and one from Vancouver).
Two studentsdid really well at the 2008 Open (one ranked sec-ond and two tied for 13th) but were not in the top20 at the Invitational.3.8 DiversityAbout half of the participants in NACLO weregirls in 2007 and 2008.
In 2007, 25 out of the top50 students were female.The two US teams that went to the ILO in 2007included three girls, out of eight total team mem-bers (two teams of four).
The 2008 teams includeonly one girl.3.9 Other statisticsSome random statistics: (a) of the top 20 stu-dents in 2008, 14 are from public schools, (b) 26states, 3 Canadian provinces, and the District ofColumbia were represented in 2008.4 Preparation for the ILOPreparation for the ILO was a long and painfulprocess.
We had to obtain visas for Russia, fundand arrange for the trip, and do a lot of practices.4.1 TeamsOne of the students who was eligible to be onthe second USA team was unable to travel.
Wewent down the list of alternates and picked a dif-ferent student to replace her.4.2 FundingThe ILO covered room and board for the firstteam and the team coach.
The second team waslargely self-funded (including airfare and room andboard).
Everyone else was funded as part of theoverall NACLO budget.
The University of Michi-gan covered the coach?s airfare.4.3 TrainingWe ran multiple training sessions.
The activitiesincluded individual problem solving, team problemsolving (using Skype?s chat facility), readings, aswell as live lectures (both at the summer school inEstonia and on the day before the main ILO inRussia).4.4 Travel logisticsFour students, two chaperones, and one parentleft early to attend a summer school organized bythe Russian team in Narva, Estonia.
The third91chaperone and three students traveled directly tothe ILO.
The eighth student traveled with her par-ents and did some sightseeing in Russia prior to theILO.5 Participation in the ILOThe ILO was organized by a local committee fromSt.
Petersburg chaired by Stanislav Gurevych.
Theorganization was extraordinary.
Everything (prob-lem selection, grading, hotel, activities, food) wasexcellent.5.1 Organization of the ILOThe ILO was held at a decent hotel in Ze-lenogorsk, a suburb of St. Petersburg on the BalticSea.
The first day included an orientation, the sec-ond day was the individual contest and team build-ing activities, the third day ?
an excursion to St.Petersburg, the fourth day ?
the team contest andawards ceremony.5.2 ProblemsThe problems given at the ILO were quite di-verse and difficult.
The hardest problems were theone in the Ndom language which involved a non-standard number system and the Hawaiian problemgiven at the team contests which involved a verysophisticated kinship system.Turkish/TatarBrailleNdom (Papua New Guinea)Movima (Bolivia)Georgian (Caucasus)HawaiianFigure 4: List of languages used in ILO 2007.5.3 ResultsAdam Hesterberg scored the highest score in theindividual contest.
One of the two US teams (Re-becca Jacobs, Joshua Falk, Michael Gottlieb, andAnna Tchetchetkine) tied for first place in the teamevent.6 Future directionsThe unexpected interest in the NACLO poses anumber of challenges for the organizers.
Furtherchallenges arise from our desire to cover morecomputational problems.6.1 Grading and decentralization?Grading close to 5,000 submissions from 763students in 2008 took a toll on our problem com-mittee.
The process took more than two weeks.
Weare considering different options for future years,e.g., reducing the number of problems in the firstround or involving some sort of self-selection (e.g.,asking each potential participant to do a practicetest and obtain a minimal score on it).
These op-tions are suboptimal as they detract from some ofthe stated goals of the NACLO and we will notconsider them seriously unless all other options(e.g., recruiting more graders).
have been ex-hausted.6.2 Problem diversityWe would like to include more problem types,especially on the computational end of the contest.This is somewhat of a conflict with the ILO whichincludes mostly ?traditional?
LO problems.
Onepossibility is to have the first round be more com-putational whereas the invitational round would bemore aimed at picking the team members for theILO by focusing more on traditional problems.6.3 Practice problemsWe will be looking to recruit a larger pool ofproblem writers who can contribute problems ofvarious levels of difficulty (including very easyproblems and problems based on the state of the artin research in NLP).
We are also looking for vol-unteers to translate problems from Russian, includ-ing the recently published collection ?ZadachiLingvisticheskyh Olimpiad?.6.4 Other challengesThe biggest challenges for the NACLO in bothyears were funding and time management.In 2007, four of the students had to pay for theirown airfare and room and board.
At the time ofwriting, the budget for 2008 is still not fully cov-ered.
The current approach with regard to sponsor-ship is not sustainable since NSF cannot fundrecurring events and the companies that we ap-proached either gave nothing or gave a relatively92small amount compared to the overall annualbudget.The main organizers of the NACLO each spentseveral hundred hours (one of them claims ?theequivalent to 20 ACL program committee chair-manships?
), mostly above and beyond their regularappointments.
For NACLO to scale up and be suc-cessful in the future, a much wider pool of organ-izers will be needed.6.5 Other countriesDominique Estival told us recently that an LOwill take place in Australia in Winter 2008 (that is,Summer 2008 in the Northern Hemisphere).
OzLO(as it is called) will be collaborating with NACLOon problem sets.
Other countries such as theUnited Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland areconsidering contests as well.
One advantage thatthese countries all have is that they can share (Eng-lish-language) problem sets with NACLO.6.6 Participant self-selectionSome Olympiads provide self-selection prob-lems.
Students who score poorly on these problemsets are effectively discouraged from participationin the official contest.
If the number of participantskeeps growing, we may need to consider this op-tion for NACLO.6.7 More volunteersNACLO exerted a tremendous toll on the organ-izers.
Thousands of hours of volunteer work wentinto the event each year.
NACLO desperatelyneeds more volunteers to help at all levels (prob-lem writing, local organization, web site mainte-nance, outreach, grading, etc).7 Overall assessmentWhile it will take a long time to properly assess theimpact of NACLO 2007 and 2008, we have somepreliminary observations to share.7.1 OpennessWe made a very clear effort to reach out to allhigh school students in the USA and Canada.Holding the contest online helped make it trulywithin everyone?s reach.
Students and teachersoverwhelmingly appreciated the opportunity toparticipate at no cost (other than postage to sendthe submissions back to the jury) and at their ownschools.
Students who participated at the universitysites similarly expressed great satisfaction at theopportunity to meet with peers who share their in-terests.7.2 Diversity and outreachWe were pleased to see that the number of maleand female participants was nearly equal.
A num-ber of high schools indicated that clubs in Linguis-tics were being created or were in the works.7.3 Success at the ILOEven though the US participated for the firsttime at the ILO, the performance shown there (in-cluding first place individually and a tie for firstplace in the team contest) was outstanding.AcknowledgmentsWe want to thank everyone who helped turnNACLO into a successful event.
Specifically, AmyTroyani from Taylor Allderdice High School inPittsburgh, Mary Jo Bensasi of CMU, all problemwriters and graders (which include the PC listedabove as well as Rahel Ringger and Julia Work-man) and all local contest organizers (James Puste-jovsky, Lillian Lee, Claire Cardie, Mitch Marcus,Kathy McKeown, Barry Schiffman, Lori Levin,Catherine Arnott Smith, Richard Sproat, RoxanaGirju, Steve Abney, Sally Thomason, AlekaBlackwell, Roula Svorou, Thomas Payne, StanSzpakowicz, Diana Inkpen, Elaine Gold).
JamesPustejovsky was also the sponsorship chair, withhelp from Paula Chesley.
Ankit Srivastava, RonnieSim and Willie Costello co-wrote some of theproblems with members of the PC.
Eugene Finkhelped with the solutions booklets, Justin Brownworked on the web site, and Adam Hesterberg wasan invaluable member of the team throughout.Other people who deserve our gratitude includeCheryl Hickey, Alina Johnson, Patti Kardia, JoshCannon, Christina Hunt, Jennifer Wofford, andCindy Robinson.
Finally, NACLO couldn?t havehappened without the leadership and funding pro-vided by NSF and Tanya Korelsky in particular aswell as the generous sponsorship from Google,Cambridge University Press, and the North Ameri-can Chapter of the ACL (NAACL).93The authors of this paper are also thankful toMartha Palmer for giving us feedback on an earlierdraft.NACLO was partially funded by the NationalScience Foundation under grant IIS 0633871 Plan-ning Workshop for a Computational LinguisticsOlympiad.ReferencesVasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Kathleen McKeown.1997.
Predicting the Semantic Orientation of Adjec-tives, ACL 1997.Jeannette Wing, Computational Thinking, CACM vol.49, no.
3, March 2006, pp.
33-35.V.
I. Belikov, E. V. Muravenko and M. E. Alexeev,editors.
Zadachi Lingvisticheskikh Olimpiad.MTsNMO.
Moscow, 2007.Appendix A.
Summary of freeform com-ments?I think it's a great outreach tool to high schools.
I was es-pecially impressed by the teachers who came and talked to[the linguistics professors] about starting a linguistics club?
?The problems are great.
One of our undergraduates ex-pressed interest in a linguistics puzzle contest (on the model ofGoogle's and MS's puzzle contests) at the undergrad level.?
?We got a small but very high-quality group of students.To get a larger group, we'd need to start earlier.?
?Things could be more streamlined.
I think actually *less*communication, but at key points in the process, would bemore effective.?
?It also would have been nice if there were a camp, likewith the other US olympiads, so that more students would getthe chance to learn about linguistics?
?Just get the word out to as many schools as possible.
Youcould also advertise on forums like AOPS, Cogito, and evenCollegeConfidential ?
where students are looking for intel-lectual challenges?.
?The problems helped develop the basic code breaking.?
?Having a camp would be a huge benefit, but otherwise Ithink the contest was done very well.
Thank you for bringingit to the US.?
?Maybe send a press release to school newspapers and askthem to print something about it.?
?My 9 students enjoyed participating even though none ofthem made it to the second round.
Several have indicated thatthey want to do it again next year now that they know what itis like.?
?I used every opportunity to utter the phrase "computa-tional linguistics" to other administrators, at meetings, withparents, students, other teachers.
People inevitably want toknow more!?
?As I mentioned previously, we are all set to start up a newmath/WL club next year.
YAY!?
?Advertise with world language professional organizations(i.e., ACTFL) and on our ListServs (i.e., FLTeach)?
?It was wonderful.
KUDOS!?
?There were several practice sessions, about half run by amath teacher (who organizes many of the competitions of thisnature) and half by the Spanish teacher.
Also, several of theEnglish teachers got really excited about it (especially theteacher who teaches AP English Language, who teaches oftenabout logical reasoning) and offered extra credit to the stu-dents who took it.?
?The preparation for the naclo was done entirely by themath club.?
?It was a very useful competition.
First, it raised awarenessabout linguistics among our students.
They knew nothingabout this area before, and now they are looking for opportuni-ties to study linguistics and some started visiting linguisticresearch seminars at the University of Washington.?
?The Olympiad was interesting to most students because itwas very different from all the other math Olympiads we par-ticipate in.
Students saw possibilities for other application oftheir general math skills.
In addition, the students who won(reasonably succeeded in) this Olympiad were not the samestudents that usually win math contests at  our school.
Thiswas very useful for their confidence, and showed everybodythat broadening skills is important.?
?I was the only one to take the contest from my school, soit didn't really increase awareness that much.
I, however,learned a lot about linguistics, and the people who I told aboutthe contest seemed to find it interesting also.?
?As a result of this competition, an Independent-StudyLinguistics Course was offered this spring for a few interestedstudents.?
?Three students who participated in NACLO are now do-ing an Independent Study course with my colleague from the World Languages dept (who had a linguistics course incollege)?
?I'd like to see more linguistic indoctrination, so that mathnerds are converted over to the good side.?
?next year I will  teach a Computational Linguistics semi-nar?Appendix B.
Related URLshttp://www.naclo.cs.cmu.edu/http://www.cogito.org/ContentRedirect.aspx?ContentID=16832http://www.cogito.org/Interviews/InterviewsDetail.aspx?ContentID=16901http://www.ilolympiad.spb.ru/http://cty.jhu.edu/imagine/PDFs/Linguistics.pdfhttp://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=109891http://photofile.name/users/anna_stargazer/2949079/Figure 5: List of additional references URLs.Appendix C. Sample problemsWe include here some sample problems as well asone solution.
The rest of the solutions are availableon the NACLO Web site.94C.1.
MolisticThis is a problem from 2007 written byDragomir Radev and based on [Hatzivassiloglouand McKeown 1997].Imagine that you heard these sentences:Jane is molistic and slatty.Jennifer is cluvious and brastic.Molly and Kyle are slatty but danty.The teacher is danty and cloovy.Mary is blitty but cloovy.Jeremiah is not only sloshful but also weasy.Even though frumsy, Jim is sloshful.Strungy and struffy, Diane was a pleasure to watch.Even though weasy, John is strungy.Carla is blitty but struffy.The salespeople were cluvious and not slatty.1.
Then which of the following would you be likely tohear?a.
Meredith is blitty and brastic.b.
The singer was not only molistic but also cluvious.c.
May found a dog that was danty but sloshful.2.
What quality or qualities would you be looking for in aperson?a.
blittyb.
weasyc.
sloshfuld.
frumsy3.
Explain all your answers.
(Hint: The sounds of the wordsare not relevant to their meanings.
)Figure 6: ?Molistic?
problem from 2007.C.2.
Garden PathThis is another problem from 2007.True story: a major wireless company recently started an advertisingcampaign focusing on its claim that callers who use its phonesexperience fewer dropped calls.The billboards for this company feature sentences that are split intotwo parts.
The first one is what the recipient of the call hears, and thesecond one - what the caller actually said before realizing that the callgot dropped.
The punch line is that dropped calls can lead to seriousmisunderstandings.
We will use the symbol // to separate the two partsof such sentences.
(1) Don't bother coming // early.
(2) Take the turkey out at five // to four.
(3) I got canned // peaches.These sentences are representative of a common phenomenon inlanguage, called "garden path sentences".
Psychologically, peopleinterpret sentences incrementally, before waiting to hear the full text.When they hear the ambiguous start of a garden path sentence, theyassume the most likely interpretation that is consistent with what theyhave heard so far.
They then later backtrack in search of a new parse,should the first one fail.In the specific examples above, on hearing the first part, oneincorrectly assumes that the sentence is over.
However, when morewords arrive, the original interpretation will need to be abandoned.
(4) All Americans need to buy a house // is a large amount of money.
(5) Melanie is pretty // busy.
(6) Fat people eat // accumulates in their bodies.1.
Come up with two examples of garden path sentences that are notjust modifications of the ones above and of each other.
Split each ofthese two sentences into two parts and indicate how hearing thesecond part causes the hearer to revise his or her current parse.For full credit, your sentences need to be such that the interpretationof the first part should change as much as possible on hearing thesecond part.
For example, in sentence (6) above, the interpretation ofthe word "fat" changes from an adjective ("fat people") to a noun ("fat[that] people eat...").
Note: sentences like "You did a great job..., //NOT!"
don't count.2.
Rank sentences (4), (5), (6) as well as the two sentences from yoursolution to H1 above, based on how surprised the hearer is afterhearing the second part.
What, in your opinion, makes a garden pathsentence harder to process by the hearer?Figure 7: ?Garden Path?
problem from 2007.95C.3.
IlocanoThis 2008 problem was written by Patrick Littellof the University of Pittsburgh.The Ilocano language is one of the major languages of the Philippines,spoken by more than 8 million people.
Today is it written in theRoman alphabet, which was introduced by the Spanish, but before thatIlocano was written in the Baybayin script.
Baybayin (which literallymeans ?spelling?)
was used to write many Philippine languages andwas in use from the 14th to the 19th centuries.1.
Below are twelve Ilocano words written in Baybayin.
Match themto their English translations, listed in scrambled order below.____________  ____________  ____________   ____________  ____________  ____________	 ____________	 	 	 ____________ 	 	 	 ____________  ____________________________________{ to look, is skipping for joy, is becoming a skeleton, to buy, variousskeletons, various appearances, to reach the top, is looking,appearance, summit, happiness, skeleton }2.
Fill in the missing forms. 	 ________________________________________________          (the/a) purchase____________          is buying3.
Explain your answers to 1 and 2.Figure 8: Ilocano problem from 2008.Practical: 11 points1.
Translations (1/2 point each)appearance  various appearances  to look   is looking  happiness  is skipping for joy	 skeleton	 	 	 various skeletons 	 	 	 is becoming a skeleton  to buysummitto reach the top2.
Missing forms (1 point each) 	 to become a skeletonvarious summitsis reaching the top           (the/a) purchase             is buyingAssign ?
point each if the basic symbols (the consonants) are correct,and the other ?
point if the diacritics (the vowels) are correct.Theoretical: 9 points* The first step in this problem must be to divide the English itemsinto semantically similar groups (1 pt) and divide the Baybayin itemsinto groups based on shared symbols (1 pt).
* From this they can deduce that the group including  mustcorrespond to the ?look/appearances?
group (4 members each), thatincluding 	 	 to the ?skeleton?
group (3 members each), and  must be ?to buy?
(1 each).
For getting this far they shouldget another 2 points.
* Figuring out the nature of the Baybayin alternations is the trickypart.
A maximally good explanation will discover that there are twobasic processes:?
From the basic form, copy the initial two symbols and addthem to the beginning.
The first should retain whateverdiacritic it might have, but the second should have its dia-critic (if any) replaced by a cross below.?
Insert  as the second symbol, and move the initial sym-bol?s diacritic (if any) to this one.
Add an underdot to thefirst symbol.
* Discovering these two processes, and determining that the thirdprocess is the result of doing both, is worth 3 points.
Discoveringthese two processes, and describing the third as an unrelated process ?that is, not figuring out that it?s just a combination of the first two ?
isworth 2 points.
Figuring out these processes without reference to thediacritics is worth 1 point, whether or not they correctly determine thenature of the third process.
* All that remains is to match up which processes indicate whichcategories, which shouldn?t be hard if they?ve gotten this far.
Theirdescription of how to determine this is worth another 1 point.
* The remaining 1 point is reserved to distinguish particularly elegantsolutions described with unusual clarity.96
