Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Issues in Teaching Computational Linguistics (TeachCL-08), pages 10?18,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding a Flexible, Collaborative, Intensive Master?sProgram in Computational LinguisticsEmily M. BenderUniversity of WashingtonDepartment of LinguisticsBox 354340Seattle WA 98195-4340ebender@u.washington.eduFei XiaUniversity of WashingtonDepartment of LinguisticsBox 354340Seattle WA 98195-4340fxia@u.washington.eduErik BanslebenUniversity of WashingtonEducational OutreachUW Tower, Box 3594854333 Brooklyn Ave., NESeattle, WA 98105-9485ebansleben@extn.washington.eduAbstractWe present the design of a professional mas-ter?s program in Computational Linguistics.This program can be completed in one-year offull-time study, or two-three years of part-timestudy.
Originally designed for CS profession-als looking for additional training, the pro-gram has evolved in flexibility to accommo-date students from more diverse backgroundsand with more diverse goals.1 IntroductionIn the past two decades, there has been tremendousprogress in natural language processing and variousundergraduate/graduate programs in language tech-nology have been established around the world (Koitet al, 2002; Frederking et al, 2002; Dale et al,2002; Uszkoreit et al, 2005; Pilon et al, 2005).This paper introduces the University of Wash-ington?s Professional Masters Program in Computa-tional Linguistics (CLMA)?one of the largest pro-grams of its kind in the United States?and high-lights unique features that are key to its success.
TheCLMA program is currently operating in its thirdyear as a fee-based degree program managed jointlyby the Department of Linguistics and the Educa-tional Outreach arm of the University.
The programis distinguished by its programmatic focus, its flexi-bility, its format and delivery as well as in the part-nerships that are an integral part of this degree.This paper highlights how these features of ourprogram contribute to effective teaching in our in-terdisciplinary field as well as making the programrelevant to both working professionals and studentson the research track.
We provide a brief programoverview highlighting the people and partnershipsinvolved, course design, practicum and research op-tions, and dealing with student diversity.
We thenreflect on how we have approached the challengesof setting up the program and our future plans.2 Program OverviewWith working professionals who wanted to returnto school to retool for a career change in mind, wedesigned a curriculum that can be completed in 12months of intensive full-time study.
In this way, stu-dents can complete the degree without leaving theworking world for too long.
In addition, the com-pactness of the program means that even with part-time study (one-two courses per quarter), the pro-gram can be completed within a reasonable timehorizon (two-three years).
Once the program gotunderway, we found that we also had strong interestfrom Linguistics students.
The flexibility of the part-time option has allowed us to develop a two-yearschedule which accommodates students who needtime to get up to speed with key CS concepts.The curriculum is designed around hands-on andcollaborative work which prepares students for in-dustry jobs.
At the same time, the courses are struc-tured around fundamental building blocks ratherthan applications in order to teach students to thinklike computational linguists, and to provide themwith an educational foundation which will remainrelevant for years to come.This section gives an overview of the CLMA pro-gram, including its structure and participants.102.1 Program StructureThe CLMA program comprises three quarters (ninecourses) of coursework and a summer master?sproject, which can take the form of an internshipor a master?s thesis (?3.5).
The courses, describedin more detail in ?3 below, include three courses inLinguistics and six in Computational Linguistics.The program also offers a series of talks by com-putational linguists working at local companies, aninformal seminar of the computational Linguisticslab group (which includes PhD students and focuseson research methodology), and career developmentservices as we work with students to place them ininternships and post-degree jobs.2.2 The new certificate programThis summer, the program is branching out witha new Certificate in Natural Language Technol-ogy.
This three-course Certificate includes two NLPcourses from the Masters degree and an introduc-tory course titled ?Computational Linguistics Foun-dations?
which serves both this Certificate audienceand acts as a refresher course for some degree stu-dents.
It reinforces the concepts from Linguistics,CS and statistics that students rely on heavily in thecore course sequence (see ?4).
The Certificate is analternate course of study for those students wantingto study a single topic in depth but who are not yetready to commit to the entire degree.2.3 Synchronous online and in-person coursesAs part of the certificate summer launch, we willbe offering a selection of courses in a synchronousonline and in-person format, streaming the contentfrom the classroom to a live remote audience.
Thiswill allow us to extend the reach of the program andmake study in Computational Linguistics availableto students who otherwise would not have access toinstruction in this field without relocating.In the context of current globalization trends, theneed for online and distance education is grow-ing (Zondiros, 2008), and indeed we hope that ouraudience will extend beyond North America.
Atthe same time, we agree with Neal and Miller?s(2004) position that even with remote participants,the classroom remains a key part of the educationalexperience.
We have thus adopted an approach thatallows students to be part of a virtual classroomwhere they can engage with other students while stillworking from a remote location.
This surmounts thehurdle of more traditional distance or online educa-tion that is primarily text-based and asynchronous.In a pilot of an online course offering in Autumn2007 (with Intro to Syntax), we found that mostof the pieces were already in place for taking ourcourses online: Course materials are already dissem-inated through websites, student programming workis done on a server cluster that is always accessedremotely, and most of the discussion outside of classhappens on electronic discussion boards.2.4 Faculty and StaffThe CLMA program is taught by a group of instruc-tors who combine academic knowledge and practi-cal expertise in the field.
The program budget sup-ports two faculty positions, one tenure-track (andguaranteed by the College of Arts and Sciences), andone two-year visiting position.1 Each of these fac-ulty teach two of the core NLP courses described in?3.1 below and one seminar each year.
In addition,they share the work of supervising MA theses andinternships over the summer.
In recognition of thissupervising load, their schedules are arranged so thatthey each have one non-summer quarter off fromteaching.
A third faculty member in ComputationalLinguistics teaches three graduate-level courses inComputational Linguistics per year, and takes onone-two MA students from each CLMA cohort.The program also includes a part-time administra-tor and a technical specialist within the Departmentof Linguistics.
In addition, the program includes af-filiated instructors and guest lecturers, ranging fromfaculty members of other departments such as CSand Statistics to researchers from industry.2.5 StudentsA strength of the program is its emphasis on stu-dent diversity and allowance for individualized stu-dent needs.
The program allows for both part-time and full-time enrollment and includes both re-cent college graduates as well older, more non-traditional students who work in industry.
We havestudents from throughout the US, as well as from1To be converted to tenure-track in the future, once the pro-gram has a longer track-record.11Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, and Russia.Two-year course schedules allow students to beginCLMA course work while simultaneously taking CSand statistics courses in the first year, increasing thediversity of backgrounds of our students.
The pro-gram is starting to deliver several courses online (see?2.3) which provides additional flexibility to localstudents while also reaching a wider national andinternational audience.
Lastly, the program seeks tofoster both research and industry interests by provid-ing both thesis and internship options.2.6 Advisory boardThe program maintains an advisory board composedof significant industry researchers and practition-ers, including representatives from AT&T, Boeing,Google, IBM, Microsoft, Nuance, PARC, and Ya-hoo!, and faculty from several departments at theUniversity.
This board was instrumental in develop-ing the original program focus and curriculum out-line, as well as providing input from the perspectiveof employers as the University decided whether ornot to launch the program.
It continues to be en-gaged in guiding the program?s content, providinginternship opportunities for students, and keepingthe content relevant to current industry trends.2.7 Support from Educational OutreachAnother element of success is a centralized in-frastructure of administration and support availablethrough the University?s Educational Outreach divi-sion (UWEO) which manages the CLMA program,among more than 30 degree offerings.UWEO provides many benefits, including con-siderable institutional knowledge in starting a newdegree program, providing methods of separatingfee-based revenue from that of state-run programs,marketing expertise, fiscal management, registrationservices and more.
As the outreach arm of the Uni-versity, UWEO works closely with non-traditionalstudents and is able to leverage its industry contactsto assist serving this community most effectively.Lastly, partnering with UWEO also serves as amethod of risk management for all new degree pro-grams.
As a state school, the University may havedifficulty in getting state approval and funding fornew degree programs unless initial need and demandcan be demonstrated persuasively.
UWEO can as-sume a certain degree of risk during the start-upphase of new programs allowing for additional flex-ibility and time to reach financial viability.3 Curriculum DesignThe program curriculum was designed according tothe following principles: (1) we should provide stu-dents with an educational foundation that is relevantin the long term; (2) we should emphasize hands-on coursework to provide depth of understanding aswell as practical experience students can point towhen looking for a job; and (3) we should highlightunifying themes in a diverse set of subject matter.The courses were designed by taking an inven-tory of the applications and research areas that com-prise Computational Linguistics, and then breakingthem down into subtasks.
These subtasks were thengrouped by similarity into coherent courses, and thecourses into core and elective sets.
Three topics re-sisted classification into any particular course: am-biguity resolution, evaluation, and multilingualism.These became our cross-cutting themes which arehighlighted throughout all of the courses.
In addi-tion to understanding each subtask, working compu-tational linguists need to know how to combine thestages of linguistic processing into end-to-end sys-tems.
For this reason, we include a capstone ?Sys-tems and Applications?
course in which studentswork in groups to create an NLP application.Key to making the Computational Linguistics cur-riculum fit into one calendar year was deciding notto include the course ?Intro to Computational Lin-guistics.?
Such a course serves to expose students toa broad range of topics in the field and get them in-terested in exploring further.
CLMA students are al-ready interested in further studies in ComputationalLinguistics, and will be exposed to a broad rangeof topics throughout the curriculum.
However, wedid still want to give the students an overview ofthe field so that they could see how the rest of theirstudies will fit in.
This is done through a two-dayorientation at the start of each year.
The orienta-tion also introduces the three cross-cutting themesmentioned above, gives the students a chance to getto know each other and the CLMA faculty, and pro-vides practical information about the university suchas libraries, computing lab facilities, etc.123.1 Required coursesThere are six required courses: The first two are Lin-guistics courses, and the remaining four form theNLP core courses.
Among the four NLP courses,Ling 572 should be taken after Ling 570, and Ling573 should be taken after Ling 570, 571, and 572.Ling 450 (Intro to Linguistic Phonetics): Intro-duction to the articulatory and acoustic correlatesof phonological features.
Issues covered includethe mapping of dynamic events to static represen-tations, phonetic evidence for phonological descrip-tion, universal constraints on phonological structure,and implications of psychological speech-sound cat-egorization for phonological theory.Ling 566 (Intro to Syntax for ComputationalLinguistics): Introduction to syntactic analysis andconcepts (e.g., constituent structure, the syntax-semantics interface, and long-distance dependen-cies).
Emphasis is placed on formally precise en-coding of linguistic hypotheses and designing gram-mars so that they can be scaled up for practical appli-cations.
Through the course we progressively buildup a consistent grammar for a fragment of English.Problem sets introduce data and phenomena fromother languages.Ling 570 (Shallow Processing Techniques forNLP): Techniques and algorithms for associatingrelatively surface-level structures and informationwith natural language data, including tasks such astokenization, POS tagging, morphological analysis,language modeling, named entity recognition, shal-low parsing, and word sense disambiguation.Ling 571 (Deep Processing Techniques for NLP):Techniques and algorithms for associating deep orelaborated linguistic structures with natural lan-guage data (e.g., parsing, semantics, and discourse)and for associating natural language strings with in-put semantic representations (generation).Ling 572 (Advanced Statistical Methods in NLP):Major machine learning algorithms for NLP, includ-ing Decision Tree, Naive Bayes, kNN, MaximumEntropy, Support Vector Machine, Transformation-Based Learning, and the like.
Students implementmany of these algorithms and use them to solve clas-sification and sequence labeling problems.Ling 573 (NLP Systems and Applications): De-sign and implementation of coherent systems forpractical applications, with topics varying year toyear.
Sample topics: machine translation, ques-tion answering, information retrieval, informationextraction, dialogue systems, and spell/grammarchecking.
In 2006, the students collectively built aquestion answering system, which was further de-veloped into a submission to the TREC competition(Jinguji et al, 2006).
This year?s class is developinga chatbot to submit to the Loebner Prize competi-tion, an implementation of the Turing Test.Among the required courses, Ling 566 was cre-ated a year before the CLMA program started, andhas been taught four times.
Ling 450 is an estab-lished course from our Linguistics curriculum.
Ling570-573 were newly created for this program, andhave each been taught three times now.
We haveput much effort in improving course design, as dis-cussed in (Xia, 2008).3.2 The prerequisites for the required coursesIn order to cover the range of methodologies andtasks that our program does in its core sequence, weneed to set as a prerequisite the ability to program,including knowledge of data structures and algo-rithms, and expertise in C++ or Java.2 Another pre-requisite is a college-level course in probability andstatistics.
Without such knowledge, it is all but im-possible to discuss the sophisticated statistical mod-els covered in the core NLP courses.
For the twoLinguistics required courses, the only prerequisite isa college-level introductory course in Linguistics orequivalent.
Because our students have very diversebackgrounds, we have tried several approaches tohelp the students meet al these prerequisites, whichwill be discussed in ?4.3.3 Elective coursesAll students must take three electives, includingone in Linguistics, one in Computational Linguis-tics, and one more in Computational Linguistics ora related field.
The Linguistics electives are drawnfrom the broad range of graduate-level Linguisticscourses offered in the department.
The related fields2Knowing Perl or Python is recommended but not required,as we believe that good C++ or Java programmers can learn Perlor Python quickly.13electives include courses in CS and Electrical Engi-neering on topics such as Machine Learning, Graph-ical Models, Artificial Intelligence, and Human-Computer Interaction as well as courses in the In-formation School on topics such as Information Re-trieval.
We maintain a list of pre-approved courses,which grows as students find additional courses ofinterest and petition to have them approved.The annual elective offerings in ComputationalLinguistics include Multilingual Grammar Engi-neering, as well as seminars taught by the Com-putational Linguistics faculty and by guest experts(including researchers in local industry), coveringnew topics each year.
Recent topics include: Cor-pus Management, Development and Use, Text-to-Speech, Multimodal Interfaces, Lexical Acquisitionfor Precision Grammars, Semi-supervised and Un-supervised Learning for NLP, and Information Ex-traction from Heterogeneous Resources.
There arefour-five such seminars per year, three from theComputational Linguistics faculty and one-two fromguest experts.We ask students to present their choices of elec-tives for approval, and require that they articulatereasons why their range of choices constitutes a co-herent course of study.3.4 Hands on, interactive coursesAll of the courses in the curriculum are hands-on,emphasizing learning through doing as well as col-laboration between the students.
Theoretical con-cepts introduced in lecture are put into practicewith problem sets (e.g., in Intro to Syntax), pro-gramming assignments (in the core sequence) andopened-ended projects (in the Systems and Applica-tions course and the seminars).
Student collabora-tion is promoted through group projects as well asactive online discussion boards where students andfaculty together solve problems as they arise.3.5 The master?s projectIn addition to nine courses, the students need tocomplete a master?s project, either through an in-ternship or through completing a master?s thesis.The internship option: Internships counting to-wards the MA degree must be relevant to Compu-tational Linguistics or human language technologymore broadly.
Students develop a pre-internshipproposal, including a statement of the area of inter-est and proposed contributions, a discussion of whythe company targeted is a relevant place to do thiswork, and a list of relevant references.
Once the stu-dents have been offered and accepted an internship,they write a literature review on existing approachesto the task in question.At the end of the internship, students write a self-evaluation which they present to the internship su-pervisor for approval and then to the faculty advisor.In addition, we require a confidential, written evalu-ation from the intern?s supervisor which referencesthe self-evaluation.
If this evaluation does not indi-cate satisfactory work, the internship will not count.Students also write a post-internship report, in-cluding a description of the activities undertakenduring the internship and their results, a discussionof how the program course work related to and/orprepared the student for the internship work, and asecond version of the literature review.
We expectthe second review to be different from the initialversion in incorporating the additional perspectivegained in the course of the internship as well as anyadditional key papers that the student discovered inthe course of internship work.The thesis option: This option is recommended forstudents who wish to petition for admission to theDepartment?s PhD program, and encouraged for stu-dents who wish to apply to other PhD programs inthe near future.
An MA thesis typically involvesthe implementation of working systems (or exten-sions or experimental evaluations thereof).
In somecases, they may provide theoretical contributions in-stead.
MA theses require a thorough literature re-view, are typically longer (30-50 pages), and repre-sent the kind of research which could be presentedat major conferences in our field.The milestones: While the internship and a sig-nificant portion of the thesis work are conducted inthe summer for full-time students, we start monthlygraduation planning meetings as early as the pre-ceding October to help students decide which op-tion they should take.
For those seeking internships,we will help them identify the companies that matchtheir interests and make the contact if possible.14Students who choose the thesis option are re-quired to turn in an initial thesis proposal that in-cludes a thesis topic, a summary of major existingapproaches, the students?
proposed approach, and aplan for evaluation.
With the feedback from the fac-ulty, the students will revise their proposals severaltimes before finalizing the thesis topic.
Students areencouraged to take elective courses relevant to theirtopic.
Because the amount of research is required fora good master?s thesis, we expect students with thisoption to take one or two additional quarters to finishthan the ones who choose the internship option.4 ChallengesIn this section, we address several challenges that weencountered while establishing the new program.Students enrolling in our program have variedbackgrounds in Linguistics, CS and other under-graduate majors.
In addition, some students cometo us straight from undergraduate studies, while oth-ers are re-entry students.
To better prepare studentsfor the program, starting this year we offer an eight-week summer refresher course, which reinforces themost important skills from contributing disciplinesto prepare students for the CLMA core courses.
Thecourse covers the following topics: (1) formal gram-mars and formal languages, (2) finite-state automataand transducers, (3) review of main concepts fromprobability and statistics, (4) review of major datastructures and algorithms, and (5) using Unix andcomputer clusters.After students are admitted to the program, theyare asked to take an online placement test to identifythe areas that they need to strengthen before enter-ing the program.
They can then choose to take thesummer course or study on their own.While some of our students, typically fresh outof college or stepping out of the workforce for re-training to switch careers, are eager to complete thedegree in one year, others wish to complete the pro-gram while continuing their current employment orsimply need more time.
We offer various options toaccommodate different needs:Part-time vs. full-time Students can complete theprogram in one year, taking three classes each quar-ter and completing the master?s project in the sum-mer.
At this pace, the program is very intense.The program also offers part-time options, allow-ing students to take courses one or two at a time.This works well for students who are currently em-ployed and also leaves time for students comingfrom a Linguistics background to take CS and Statis-tics courses before approaching the ComputationalLinguistics core sequence.
While full-time studentsmust start in Autumn quarter, part-time students canstart in any academic quarter.Curriculum flexibility Students who come to uswith an extensive background in Linguistics (e.g., aprior MA), can waive one or more of the Linguisticsrequirements, giving them more time in their sched-ule for Computational Linguistics or related fieldscourses, such as CS.Program options Our courses are open to qual-ified students for single-course enrollment, allow-ing people who don?t have the time or financial re-sources to commit to the whole master?s programto benefit from the course offerings.
In addition,the three-course certificate provides more continuitythan single-course enrollment (though less than thefull master?s program) as well as the recognition of acertificate.
In either case, graduate non-matriculatedstatus allows such students to apply their courseworkto the master?s program at a later date.Master?s project options In providing for both in-ternships and master?s theses, the program can ac-commodate students seeking training for positionsin industry as well as those seeking to continue grad-uate studies.
In the former case, the practical ex-perience of an internship together with the indus-try connections it can provide are most valuable.
Inthe latter case, a chance to do independent researchis more appropriate.
Students who spread the pro-gram out over more than one year can do internshipsin the summer between years one and two in addi-tion to the master?s project (internship or thesis) inthe second summer.
Finally, the ?internship option?can also be fulfilled by ordinary full-time employ-ment: when students begin full-time positions in thesummer after they complete coursework or apply theknowledge gained in the master?s program to newprojects at their current places of employment.In class or online By offering our courses in a hy-brid, synchronous in-person and online format, we15add the flexibility to attend our program from any-where in the world while still benefiting from thesame courses, lectures, online discussions and col-laborative work.
The online option is also benefi-cial to local students, allowing them to tune in, forexample, when home caring for a sick child, to re-view lectures previously attended, to attend onlineon days without other on-campus obligations and toavoid the commute.
In the 2008-2009 school year,three of our courses will be offered in this format,and we plan to extend the offerings going forward.5 Outcomes5.1 Enrollment, graduation rate and placementIn years 1-3, 70 students have enrolled, and about30 of them enrolled as full-time students.3 To data13 have completed the program, and at least nineof them are currently in jobs related to Computa-tional Linguistics.
Another 12 are projected to grad-uate this year.
Out of these 25 students, 15 chosethe internship option and 10 chose the thesis option.We have placed students in internships with com-panies such as Amazon.com, Google, Microsoft,PARC, Tegic (Nuance), and VoiceBox, and havegraduates working at companies such as Cataphora,Cisco, Google, InXight, Tegic (Nuance), and Voice-Box.
Among the 10 students who took the thesis op-tion, four received RAships from CLMA faculty?sresearch grants, and at least two will enroll in ourPh.D.
program after receiving their MAs.Recent internal research completed by UWEOidentified a total of 34 CL programs, 23 in the USand 11 in Western Europe.
These programs varyfrom named degrees in Computational Linguistics ora similar variant, to concentrations in other degreesand to loose courses of study.
It appears that there isone other university in the US that has enrollment ashigh or higher than our own, but all other programstypically have at least 50% fewer students enrollingas of 2007.
Given that this program is only in itsthird year, we consider this level of high compara-tive enrollment a strong measure of success.
Addi-tionally, during this 3 year period, there has been anupward trend in applications which may be a reflec-3Some of them later switched to part-time status due to vari-ous reasons (e.g., the intensity of the program, financial consid-eration).tion on the growth and awareness of the discipline,but may also be a reflection on the growing reputa-tion of the program.5.2 Student feedbackWe sent an anonymous survey to all alumni andcurrent students (N=70) asking them about the ef-fectiveness of the overall CLMA program, individ-ual courses, the curriculum, success in getting a jobas well as for some qualitative feedback about thestrengths and weaknesses of the program.
We re-ceived 31 responses (44% response rate).
For thesake of brevity, we will provide a selection of ques-tions and categorize the results as follows: positive(1=very well, 2=fairly well), neutral (3=so so); neg-ative (4=not very well, 5=poorly).0%10%20%30%40%50%60%Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q5Percentage of responses very wellfairly wellso sonot very wellpoorlyFigure 1: Student and alumni responsesAs shown in Figure 1, the responses were over-whelmingly positive.
The first four questions askhow well the program as a whole helped the studentsachieve the goals of learning to think like a computa-tional linguist (Q1), understanding the state of the artin Computational Linguistics (Q2), understandingthe potential contributions of both machine learningand knowledge engineering (Q3), and preparationfor a job in industry (Q4).
The fifth question askshow helpful the CLMA experience has been/will bein finding a job.4 There were a number of other ques-tions, but the results are all very similar to the onesabove.
These same questions were also asked withrespect to individual courses.
The results were againsimilar, although slightly lower.
Positive responseswere in the range of 80%-95%, neutral in the range4Each of these questions was answered by 24-27 students.16of 5-20% and negative responses were usually lim-ited to no more than 5%.
For the question of howwell the program has prepared students for their cur-rent job (alumni only, N=5), 100% answered posi-tively.
For the question about how important the pro-gram was in attaining their current job, again 100%felt that the program was crucial.We also received valuable qualitative feedback onthis survey.
The majority of students (67%) felt thatthe program was very intense, but very much worth-while.
The faculty consistently receives high praise;students enjoy the small hard-working community;and comments indicate that the coursework is rele-vant for their future career.
When asked about sug-gestions for improvement, students provided a num-ber of logistical suggestions, would like to see somedegree of student mentoring, and seek to find waysto reduce the intensity of the program, especiallyfor part-time students who are working.
It is clear,though, from the overall survey results, that studentsfeel very positive about the program as a whole, andits relevance for their professional future.While we at first thought the program to be pri-marily a one-year program, the intensity of the cur-riculum has resulted in a number students takinglonger than one year to complete the program whichhas impacted the number of students who have thusfar completed.
Consequently, we will consider stu-dent feedback from the survey which?in conjunc-tion with the new preparatory course?should leadus to find methods of reducing the intensity butmaintaining the high quality.6 Conclusion and future directions6.1 Lessons learnedIn starting this program, we had the privilege of de-signing the curriculum first and then hiring faculty toteach the required courses.
We worked closely withour advisory board to develop a course of study well-suited to training students for industry jobs, whilealso striving to design a program that will remainrelevant to graduates many years down the line.Financial support from UWEO allowed us tojump in with both feet, offering the full curriculumfrom year one.
This was critical in attracting a strongand reasonably large student body.
It also providedthe freedom to design a curriculum that goes in-depth into Computational Linguistics.Other facets of our curriculumwhich contribute toits success include: (1) We combine in-depth explo-ration of particular topics with cross-cutting themesthat tie the courses together.
(2) The courses em-phasize hands-on work, providing immediate moti-vation to delve deeper into the theoretical conceptspresented.
(3) The program combines high inten-sity with high levels of support: We ask the stu-dents to attempt real-world scale projects and thenassist them in achieving these goals through provid-ing software to work from, offering high levels ofonline interaction to answer questions, and facili-tating collaboration.
By working together, the stu-dents can build more interesting systems than any-one could alone, and therefore explore a broader ter-ritory.
In addition, collaborative projects help stu-dents benefit from each other?s diverse backgrounds.At the same time, we?ve found providing multi-ple ways of completing program requirements to bekey to allowing students from different backgroundsto succeed.
Exceptional students coming from Lin-guistics can get up to speed quickly enough to com-plete the program on a full-time schedule (and somehave), but many others benefit from being able totake it more slowly, as do some students from a CSbackground.
We also find that having expertise inLinguistics among the students significantly benefitsthe overall cohort.6.2 Future directionsIn the near future, we plan to expand our online of-ferings, which directly expands our audience andbenefits local students as described above.
We havefound connecting course work to faculty researchand/or external competitions such as TREC and theLoebner Prize to be extremely motivating and re-warding for students, and plan to seek more opportu-nities for doing so.
We are also expanding out inter-disciplinary reach within the university.
The TRECsubmission was done jointly with faculty from theInformation School.
This year?s guest faculty coursewill be offered jointly with a course in the Schoolof Art on interface design.
In pursuing all of thesedirections, we will benefit from input from our advi-sory board as well as feedback from current studentsand alumni.17ReferencesRobert Dale, Diego Molla Aliod, and Rolf Schwit-ter.
2002.
Evangelising Language Technology: APractically-Focussed Undergraduate Program.
In Pro-ceedings of the First ACL Workshop on Effective Toolsand Methodologies for Teaching NLP and CL.Robert Frederking, Eric H. Nyberg, Teruko Mitamura,and Jaime G. Carbonell.
2002.
Design and Evolutionof a Language Technologies Curriculum.
In Proceed-ings of the First ACL Workshop on Effective Tools andMethodologies for Teaching NLP and CL.Dan Jinguji, William D. Lewis, Efthimis N. Efthimiadis,Joshua Minor, Albert Bertram, Shauna Eggers, JoshuaJohanson, Brian Nisonger, Ping Yu, and ZhengboZhou.
2006.
The University of Washington?s UW-CLMAQA system.
In Proceedings of the Text Re-trieval Conference (TREC) 2006, Gaithersburg, Mary-land.Mare Koit, Tiit Roosmaa, and Haldur Oim.
2002.
Teach-ing Computational Linguistics at the University ofTartu: Experience, Perspectives and Challenges.
InProceedings of the First ACL Workshop on EffectiveTools and Methodologies for Teaching NLP and CL.Diane Neal, Lisa nad Miller.
2004.
Distance educa-tion.
In Robert W. Proctor and Kim-Phuong L. Vu,editors, Handbook of Human Factors in Web Design.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Sule?ne Pilon, Gerhard B Van Huyssteen, and BertusVan Rooy.
2005.
Teaching language technology at theNorth-West University.
In Proceedings of the SecondACL Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologiesfor Teaching NLP and CL.Hans Uszkoreit, Valia Kordoni, Vladislav Kubon,Michael Rosner, and Sabine Kirchmeier-Andersen.2005.
Language technology from a European perspec-tive.
In Proceedings of the Second ACL Workshop onEffective Tools and Methodologies for Teaching NLPand CL.Fei Xia.
2008.
The evolution of a statistical nlp course.In Proceedings of the Third ACL Workshop on Effec-tive Tools and Methodologies for Teaching NLP andCL, Columbus, Ohio, June.Dimitris Zondiros.
2008.
Online, distance educationand globalization: Its impact on educational access,inequality and exclusion.
European Journal of Open,Distance and E-Learning, Volume I.18
