Proceedings of the Tenth Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group on Computational Morphology and Phonology, pages 29?38,Columbus, Ohio, USA June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsThree Correlates of the Typological Frequency of Quantity-InsensitiveStress SystemsMax Bane and Jason RiggleDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of ChicagoChicago, IL 60637, USAbane@uchicago.edu, jriggle@uchicago.eduAbstractWe examine the typology of quantity-insensitive (QI) stress systems and ask to whatextent an existing optimality theoretic modelof QI stress can predict the observed typolog-ical frequencies of stress patterns.
We findthree significant correlates of pattern attesta-tion and frequency: the trigram entropy of apattern, the degree to which it is ?confusable?with other patterns predicted by the model,and the number of constraint rankings thatspecify the pattern.1 IntroductionA remarkable characteristic of human language isthat the typological distribution of many linguis-tic properties is extremely uneven.
For example,Maddieson?s (1984) survey of phonemic inventoriesfinds that a total of 921 distinct sounds are used bya sample of 451 languages, yet the average languageemploys only about 30 of those.
Furthermore, somesounds are so commonly attested as to be almost uni-versal (e.g., /m/, /k/), while others are vanishinglyrare (/K/, /?/).
Heinz (2007) combines two pre-vious typologies of accentual stress (Bailey, 1995;Gordon, 2002), and finds that among a sample of306 languages with quantity-insensitive (QI) stresssystems, 26 distinct stress patterns are found,1 whileover 60% of the languages surveyed use one of just 3of these patterns.
If we begin to look at morphosyn-tactic or semantic properties, the combinatorics of1These figures include only those quantity-insensitive stresspatterns according to which there is exactly one possible assign-ment of stress per word length in syllables.possible systems veritably explodes, leaving each at-tested language with an even smaller slice of the log-ical possibilities.Most typological studies have attempted to giveaccounts of linguistic phenomena that simultane-ously:?
predict as many attested languages or patternsas possible, and?
predict as few unattested languages or patternsas possible.We will refer to this goal as the ?inclusion-exclusion?
criterion of a linguistic model.
Com-paratively few attempts have been made to explainor predict the relative frequencies with which lan-guages or patterns are observed to occur in cross-linguistic samples (though see Liljencrants andLindblom 1972, de Boer 2000, Moreton to appear,and others for work proceeding in this direction).This paper examines the typology of QI stresssystems, as reported by Heinz (2007), and asks towhat extent an existing optimality theoretic (Princeand Smolensky, 1993) model of QI stress, developedby Gordon (2002) to meet the inclusion-exclusioncriterion, can predict the observed typological fre-quencies of stress patterns.
Gordon?s model pre-dicts a total of 152 possible stress patterns, which,as far as we are aware, represent the current best at-tempt at satisfying the inclusion-exclusion criterionfor QI stress, failing to generate only two attestedstress patterns (unknown to Gordon at the time), andgenerating 128 unattested patterns.
We show thatGordon?s model can offer at least three novel, sta-tistically significant predictors of which of the 152generated patterns are actually attested, and of the29cross-linguistic frequencies of the attested patterns.Namely:i.
Of the 152 stress patterns predicted by Gor-don?s model, the attested and frequent ones ex-hibit significantly lower trigram entropy thanthe unattested and infrequent,ii.
the length of forms, in syllables, that must beobserved to uniquely identify a stress pattern issignificantly lower for the attested patterns thanfor the unattested, andiii.
the number of constraint rankings in Gordon?smodel that are consistent with a stress patternis a significant predictor both of which patternsare attested and of the relative frequencies ofthe attested patterns.In what follows, Section 2 presents an overview ofthe basic theoretical background and empirical factsof quantity-insensitive stress that guide this study,including a review of Heinz?s (2007) typology and adescription of Gordon?s (2002) OT model.
Section 3then introduces the three proposed correlates of at-testedness and frequency that can be applied to Gor-don?s framework, together with statistical analysesof their significance as predictors.
Finally, Section 4offers a discussion of the interpretation of these find-ings, as well as some concluding remarks.2 Quantity-Insensitive Stress Patterns2.1 Assumptions and DefinitionsWe will follow Gordon (2002) and Heinz (2007) intaking a stress system to be any accentual systemthat satisfies ?culminativity?
in the sense of Prince(1983); that is, any accentual system in which thereis always one most prominent accentual unit per ac-centual domain.
In this case, we assume that theaccentual unit is the syllable, and that the domainis the prosodic word.
Thus, any given syllable of aword may bear primary, secondary, or no stress (weignore the possibility of tertiary or other stress), butthere must always be exactly one primary stressedsyllable per word.We further restrict our attention in this study toquantity-insensitive (QI) stress systems, which arethose stress systems according to which the assign-ment of stresses to a word?s syllables depends onlyn Albanian Malakmalak2 ???
??
?3 ????
???
?4 ?????
???
?`?5 ??????
????
?`?6 ???????
????`?
?`?Table 1: The stress assignments of n-syllable words for2 ?
n ?
6 in the QI stress patterns of Albanian andMalakmalak.on the number of syllables present (a quantity as-sumed to be fixed when stress is assigned), and noton the segmental contents of the syllables.
We willrefer to ?stress systems?
and ?stress patterns?
inter-changeably.As two concrete examples of QI stress systems,consider those of Albanian (Chafe, 1977; alsoshared by many other languages) and Malakmalak(an Australian language; Birk, 1976).
These pat-terns are illustrated in Table 1 for words of lengthtwo through six syllables.2 The former is a simplefixed system in which primary stress is always lo-cated on the penultimate syllable, while no other syl-lable bears stress.
The latter is rather more complex,requiring stress on even numbered syllables from theright, the leftmost being primary.
Crucially, neithersystem is sensitive to notions like syllabic weight,nor to any other properties of the syllables?
contents.Formally, one can consider a QI stress pattern upto length n (in syllables), Pn, to be a set of stringsover the alphabet ?
= {?, ?`, ??
}:(1) Pn = {w2, .
.
.
, wn},where each wi encodes the locations of stress in aword of i syllables, satisfying:(2) |wi| = i, wi ?
?
?, andwi contains ??
exactly once.Thus for a given maximum number of syllables n,there aren?i=2i2(i?1) = n!
?
2n(n?1)22Here and throughout this paper, ?
refers to an unstressedsyllable, ?` indicates a syllable bearing secondary stress, and ?
?indicates primary stress.30L076 L118 L004 L132 L110 L044 L008 L022 L143 L065 L054 L095 L040 L077 L071 L033 L113 L037 LXX1 L047 L042 L089 LXX2 LXX3 L082 L0840.000.050.100.150.200.25Frequencies of Attested Stress PatternsStress PatternFrequencyFigure 1: Frequency of attestation of each of the 26 distinct stress patterns.
Error bars indicate standard Poissonsampling error.logically possible QI stress patterns.
We will fol-low Gordon (2002) by imposing a maximum wordlength of 8 syllables for purposes of distinguishingone stress pattern from another in the typology, andof determining the set of distinct patterns predictedby the model.
We are therefore dealing with a uni-verse of 8!228 = 10,823,317,585,920 theoreticallypossible stress systems.2.2 The TypologyThe typological data on which this study is basedare due to Heinz (2007), who has made them freelyavailable.3 This database is a combination of?
that from Bailey (1995), itself gathered fromHalle and Vergnaud (1987) and Hayes (1995),and?
the collection put together by Gordon (2002)from previous surveys by Hyman (1977) andHayes (1980), as well as from additional sourcegrammars.The combined database is intended to be fairly ex-haustive, sampling a total of 422 genetically and ge-ographically diverse languages with stress systems.Of those 422 languages, 318 are identified as pos-sessing quantity-insensitive stress, and we furtherconfine our attention to the 306 of those with sys-tems that uniquely determine the stress of each wordas a function of syllable-count (i.e., with no option-ality).
We should note that it is possible for one lan-3The typology is available as a MySQL database athttp://www.ling.udel.edu/heinz/diss/llllllllllll llllllllllllll0 5 10 15 20 250.000.050.100.150.200.25Zipf Fit of Frequency?Rank vs Frequency of Attested Stress PatternsFrequency RankFrequencyFitted zipf distribution95% Confidence interval of fitFigure 2: Regressed Zipf distribution of stress pattern fre-quencies; Zipf?s exponent is found to be 1.05 ?
0.15 at95% confidence.guage to contribute more than one distinct stress pat-tern to our dataset, as in the case of Lenakel (Lynch,1974), for instance, which employs one regular pat-tern for nouns and another for verbs and adjectives.Between these 306 languages, we find a totalof 26 distinct QI stress systems, which is quite abit fewer than expected by chance, given the sam-ple size and the 10.8 trillion a priori possible sys-tems.
Figure 1 shows the frequency with whicheach pattern is attested, arranged in decreasing orderof frequency.
The distribution of patterns is essen-tially Zipfian; a nonlinear regression of the frequen-cies against Zipf?s law (using the Gauss-Newtonmethod) achieves strong statistical significance (p <0.001) and can account for 80.9% of the variance in31Constraint(s) Penalizes.
.
.ALIGNEDGE each edge of the word with no stress.ALIGN({?`, ??
}, L/R) each (primary or secondary) stressed syllable for each other (stressed or un-stressed) syllable between it and the left/right edge.ALIGN(?
?, L/R) each primary stressed syllable for each secondary stressed syllable between it andthe left/right edge.NONFINALITY the last syllable if it is stressed.
*LAPSE each adjacent pair of unstressed syllables.
*CLASH each adjacent pair of stressed syllables.
*EXTLAPSE each occurrence of three consecutive unstressed syllables.
*LAPSELEFT/RIGHT the left/right-most syllable if more than one unstressed syllable separates it fromthe left/right edge.
*EXTLAPSERIGHT the right-most syllable if more than two unstressed syllables separate it from theright edge.Table 2: Gordon?s (2002) constraint set.frequency (Figure 2).The top three most common patterns, together ac-counting for over 60% of the sampled languages, areall simple fixed primary stress systems: fixed finalstress (24.2% of systems), fixed initial stress (22.5%of systems), and fixed penultimate stress (19.6% ofsystems).
It is possible that fixed primary systemsmay be somewhat overrepresented, as the descrip-tive sources can be expected to occasionally fail toreport the presence of secondary stress; even so, thepreponderance of such systems would seem to besubstantial.
The great majority of distinctly attestedsystems are quite rare, the median frequency being0.65% of sampled languages.
Some examples ofcross-linguistically unlikely patterns include that ofGeorgian, with antepenultimate primary stress andinitial secondary stress, and that of Ic?ua?
Tupi, whichshows penultimate primary stress in words of four orfewer syllables, but antepenultimate stress in longerwords.There is some reason to believe that this sample isfairly representative of the whole population of QIstress patterns used by the world?s languages.
Whileit is true that the majority of sampled patterns arerare, it is by no means the case that the majorityof sampled languages exhibit rare stress patterns.In fact, of the N = 306 sampled languages, justn1 = 13 of them present stress patterns that areattested only once.
Thus, according to the com-monly used Good-Turing estimate (a distribution-free method of estimating type frequencies in a pop-ulation from a sample of tokens; Good, 1953), weshould expect to reserve approximately n1N = 4.3%of total probability-mass (or frequency-mass) for un-seen stress patterns.
In other words, we would besurprised to find that the actual population of lan-guages contains much more than N1?n1N= 27.15 dis-tinct patterns, i.e., about one more than found in thissample.2.3 Gordon?s (2002) ModelGordon (2002) has developed an optimality theo-retic model of QI stress with the goal of satisfyingthe inclusion-exclusion criterion on an earlier subsetof Heinz?s (2007) typology.
The model is footless,consisting of twelve constraints stated in terms of ametrical grid, without reference to feet or other met-rical groupings (or, equivalently, simply in terms oflinear {?, ?`, ??}-sequences).
The twelve constraintsare summarized in Table 2.In addition to these, Gordon?s model imple-ments a sort of ?meta-constraint?
on rankings: heassumes that one of the primary alignment con-straints ALIGN(?
?, L/R) is always lowest ranked,so that in any given tableau either ALIGN(?
?, L) orALIGN(?
?, R) is ?active,?
but never both.
Formally,we take this to mean that the model specifies twoEVALS: an EVAL-L with ALIGN(?
?, R) excludedfrom CON, and an EVAL-R with ALIGN(?
?, L) ex-cluded.
The set of stress systems predicted by thewhole model is then simply the union of the systemspredicted by EVAL-L and by EVAL-R.
This ranking32restriction is meant to capture the probably univer-sal generalization that primary stress always appearseither to the left or right of the secondary stressesin a word, without vacillating from side to side fordifferent word lengths.
Gordon also assumes thatcandidate forms violating culminativity (i.e., formswithout exactly one primary stressed syllable), arealways excluded, either by some filter on the outputof GEN or by an always highly ranked CULMINATEconstraint against them.4Gordon?s model is capable of representing 2 ?11!
= 79,833,600 QI stress grammars (11!
rank-ings of the constraints associated with EVAL-L plusthe 11!
rankings for EVAL-R).
We replicated Gor-don?s (2002) calculation of the factorial typology ofdistinct QI stress patterns that this grammar spacepredicts by implementing the constraints as finite-state transducers,5 composing the appropriate com-binations of these to produce finite-state implemen-tations of EVAL-L and EVAL-R, respectively (seeRiggle, 2004), and iteratively constructing consis-tent subsets of the members of the cross-products ofcandidate forms for each word length (two througheight syllables).
See Riggle et al(2007) and Prince(2002) for the mathematical and algorithmic details.The factorial typology of stress systems that isyielded agrees with that reported by Gordon (2002).The model predicts a total of 152 distinct possiblesystems.
All but two of the 26 systems attestedin Heinz?s (2007) database are among these.
Thetwo patterns that Gordon?s model fails to generateare those of Bhojpuri (as described by Tiwari, 1960;Shukla, 1981), and Ic?ua?
Tupi (Abrahamson, 1968).Both of these patterns were unknown to Gordon atthe time he proposed his model, and each is attestedonly once in the typology.In addition to failing to generate two of the at-tested stress systems, Gordon?s model also predicts4We follow Gordon in remaining agnostic on this point, asthe same set of possible stress patterns results from either im-plementation.5The reader may notice that the ALIGN(?
?, L/R) andALIGN({?`, ??
}, L/R) constraints (defined in Table 2) involvea kind of counting that cannot generally be accomplished byfinite-state transducers.
This is perhaps a theoretically unde-sirable property of Gordon?s model (see Heinz et al(2005) forsuch a critique), but in any case, this general problem does notaffect us here, as we ignore the possibility of words any longerthan eight syllables (following Gordon; see Section 2.1).lllll lllllllAttested Unattested0.50.60.70.80.9Trigram EntropyFigure 3: Trigram entropy (average bits per symbol) ofattested versus unattested stress patterns; attested patternshave significantly lower entropy.128 patterns that are unattested.
Gordon (2002) ar-gues that a certain amount of overgeneration is tobe expected of any model, since the majority ofdistinct attested systems are extremely rare; thusfailure to observe a pattern in a limited sampleis not strong evidence that the pattern is impossi-ble.
The Good-Turing estimate of unseen patterns(Section 2.2 above), however, suggests that signifi-cantly less overgeneration may still be desired.
Gor-don also argues that the overgenerated patterns arenot pathologically different from the sorts of pat-terns that we do see (though Section 3 below de-scribes several statistically detectable differences).In any case, Gordon?s model of QI stress is amongthe most explicitly formulated approaches currentlyavailable, and offers a comparatively ?tight?
fit tothe typological data.3 Predicting Typological Frequency3.1 k-gram EntropyA frequently offered and examined hypothesis isthat, all else being equal, human communicativesystems adhere to some principle of least effort(whether in terms of articulation or processing), pre-ferring simple structures to complicated ones whenadditional complexity would afford no concomitantadvantage in communicative efficiency or expres-siveness.
This line of reasoning suggests that typo-logically frequent properties should tend to exhibit33(a) (b)l lllll lll llll llllllll0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.250.50.60.70.80.9Frequency vs Trigram EntropyTypological Frequency of PatternTrigramEntropy(bits/symbol)lhigh low0.50.60.70.80.9Trigram EntropyFigure 4: (a) typological frequency of attested stress patterns versus their trigram entropy, and (b) the trigram entropyof high-frequency (above median) patterns versus low-frequency (below median) patterns.greater simplicity (according to some metric) thanthose that are rarer.
One also expects, according tothis hypothesis, that among the set of patterns pre-dicted by a linguistic model such as Gordon?s, thesimpler ones should have a greater chance of attes-tation in typological samples.
We find evidence con-sistent with both of these expectations in the case ofQI stress systems, according to at least one informa-tion theoretic definition of complexity.In order to calculate measures of complexity foreach attested and predicted stress pattern, we con-struct bigram and trigram models of the transi-tion probabilities between syllable types (?, ?`, ??)
informs of two through eight syllables for each pat-tern.
That is, if each stress is taken to be a set offorms as in (1) (with n = 8 in this case), satisfying(2), then across all forms (i.e., word-lengths) one cancount the number of occurrences of each k-lengthsequence (k-gram) of ?, ?`, ??
and word boundariesto arrive at conditional probabilities for each sylla-ble type (or a word boundary) given the previousk?1 syllables.
With these probabilities one can thencompute the Shannon entropy of the stress pattern asan index of its complexity; this is interpreted as thenumber of bits needed to describe the pattern (i.e.,list its forms) under an efficient encoding, given thek-gram probability model.
Stress patterns in whichit is difficult to accurately predict the value of a syl-lable on the basis of the previous k?1 syllables willpossess greater entropy, and thus be deemed morecomplex, than those in which such predictions canbe made with greater accuracy.We find that in the case of a bigram probabilitymodel (k = 2), the attested stress systems predictedby Gordon?s model do not differ in entropy signifi-cantly6 from those that are unattested; we also findno significant correlation between bigram entropyand the typological frequency of attested systems.Under a trigram probability model (k = 3), how-ever, entropy is a significant predictor of bothwhether a system is attested, and if it is attested,of its frequency in the sample.
Figure 3 gives box-plots comparing the distribution of trigram entropyfor those systems predicted by Gordon?s model (plusthe two unpredicted systems) that are attested ver-sus those that are unattested.
The attested QI stresssystems are significantly less entropic than the unat-tested, according to a two-sided Mann-Whitney U -test: U = 1196, p = 0.021 (if the two unpredictedpatterns are excluded, then U = 923.5, p < 0.01).Among attested systems, trigram entropy appearsto bear a nonlinear relationship to typological fre-6Throughout this study, we adopt a 95% confidence standardof significance, i.e., p < 0.05.34quency (see Figure 4).
A significant linear correla-tion does not exist, and the 13 attested patterns withgreater than median frequency have only mildly sig-nificantly lower entropy than the 13 with less thanmedian frequency (according to another two-sidedU -test: U = 51.5, p = 0.0856); if, however,the single high-frequency pattern with outlying en-tropy is excluded (the lone point indicated in Fig-ure 4b), then the difference is more robustly signifi-cant: U = 39.5, p = 0.0323.
Interestingly, the en-tropies of the above-median patterns are tightly con-strained to a narrow band of values (variance 0.012square bits/symbol), whereas the below-median pat-terns show much greater variation in their complex-ity (variance 0.028 square bits/symbol).3.2 Confusability VectorsThe second metric we examine is motivated by con-siderations of learnability.
Some QI stress patternsare very similar to each other in the sense that onemust observe fairly long forms (i.e., forms withmany syllables) in order to distinguish them fromeach other.
For instance, in the case of Albanianand Malakmalak (Table 1 above), the two systemsgive identical stress assignments for words of two orthree syllables; to tell them apart, one must com-pare words with four or more syllables.
The de-gree of similarity, or ?confusability?
in this sense,between stress systems varies considerably for dif-ferent pairs of languages.
Assuming a tendency forshort words to be encountered more frequently bylanguage learners than long words, we might ex-pect stress patterns that are easily identified at shortword-lengths to be more faithfully acquired thanthose requiring longer observations for unambigu-ous identification.
In particular, if we take the 152patterns predicted by Gordon?s model to constitutethe set of possible QI stress systems, then we hy-pothesize that those patterns that stand out as uniqueat shorter lengths should be more typologically ?sta-ble?
: more likely to be attested, more frequently at-tested, or both.To test this, we determine a confusability vectorfor each predicted pattern.
This is simply a tuple of7 integers in which the value of the ith componentindicates how many of the other 151 predicted pat-terns the given pattern agrees with on forms of twothrough i+1 syllables.
For example, the confusabil-lAttested Unattested345678Syllable?Count for Unique IdentificationFigure 5: Attested stress patterns have significantly lowerpivots than unattested ones.ity vector of Albanian?s (fixed penultimate primary;see Table 1) stress pattern is:?101, 39, 10, 0, 0, 0, 0?This means that for words of two syllables, thisstress system agrees with 101 of the other predictedsystems, for words of two through three syllables itagrees with 39, and for two through four syllables itagrees with 10.
Once words of five or more syllablesare included in the comparison, it is unique amongthe stress patterns predicted, confusable with none.A confusability vector allows us to calculate twoquantities for a given stress pattern: its confusabil-ity sum, which is just the sum of all the componentsof the vector, and a confusability pivot, which is thenumber i such that the (i ?
1)th component7 of thevector is the first component with value 0.
Thus theconfusability sum of the fixed penultimate primarystress system is 101+39+10 = 150, and its confus-ability pivot is 5, indicating that it achieves unique-ness among Gordon?s predicted systems at five syl-lables.We find that those of the predicted systems thatare typologically attested have very significantlylower confusability pivots than the unattested sys-tems (see Figure 5; Mann-Whitney U -test: U =1005.5, p < 0.001).
One might wonder whetherthis is simply due to the fact that primary-only stress7We count vector components beginning at 1.35systems are most likely to be attested, and that suchsystems are independently expected to have lowerconfusability pivots than those with secondary stress(indeed, a two-sided Mann-Whitney test indicatesthat the pivots of primary-only systems are signifi-cantly lower: U = 214, p < 0.01).
However, itappears that confusability pivots are in fact indepen-dently robust predictors of attestedness.
When onlythe predicted patterns with secondary stress are con-sidered, the pivots of the attested ones remain signif-icantly lower than those of the unattested, albeit bya smaller margin (U = 846, p = 0.027).
Confus-ability sums, on the other hand, are not significantpredictors of attestedness in either case.Neither pivots nor sums alone correlate well withthe typological frequency of attested systems, but to-gether they can predict approximately 27% of thevariance in frequencies; a multilinear regression ofthe formf(x) = ?+ ?s(x) + ?p(x),where f(x), s(x), and p(x) are the frequency, con-fusability sum, and pivot of pattern x, respectively,yields significant (p < 0.05) values for all coeffi-cients (R2 = 0.271).3.3 Ranking VolumeThe two typological predictors discussed above (en-tropy and confusability) are only weakly ?post-theoretical?
in the sense that, while they depend ona set of predicted stress patterns according to somelinguistic theory or model (such as Gordon?s), theycan be computed without reference to the particularform of the model.
In contrast, the third and last cor-relate that we consider is entirely specified and mo-tivated by the optimality theoretic form of Gordon?smodel.We define the ranking volume, or r-volume, ofa language generated by an optimality theoreticmodel as the number of total constraint orderings(i.e., grammars) that specify the language.
Rig-gle (2008) describes a method of applying the logicof Prince?s (2002) elementary ranking conditions tocompute this quantity.
Using this method, we findthat the number of rankings of Gordon?s constraintsthat are consistent with a stress pattern predicted byhis model is a significant correlate of attestedness,llAttested Unattested10111213141516log(r?volume)Figure 6: Of the predicted stress patterns, those that areattested are consistent with significantly more constraint-rankings.
The natural logarithms of r-volume are shownhere for greater ease of comparison.and if the pattern is attested, of its typological fre-quency.
In the case of Gordon?s model, with itsranking meta-constraint and bifurcated EVAL (as de-scribed in Section 2.3), the total r-volume of eachpattern is actually the sum of two quantities: the pat-tern?s r-volume under the 11 constraints correspond-ing to EVAL-L (which excludes ALIGN(?
?, R)), andits r-volume under the 11 constraints of EVAL-R(which conversely excludes ALIGN(?
?, R)).
Most ofthe predicted patterns are only generated by one ofthe EVALS, but some can be specified by either con-straint set, and thus will tend to be consistent withmore rankings.
It just so happens that Gordon?schoice of constraints ensures that these doubly gen-erated patterns are of precisely the same sort thatare typologically most frequent: fixed primary stresssystems.
This appears to account for much of thepredictive power of r-volume in this model.The distribution of r-volume among the 152 pre-dicted stress patterns is almost perfectly Zipfian.A nonlinear Gauss-Newton regression of r-volumesagainst Zipf?s law finds a highly significant fit (withZipf?s exponent = 0.976 ?
0.02, p < 0.001) thataccounts for 96.8% of the variance.
The attestedpatterns tend to have significantly greater r-volumesthan those unattested; two-sided Mann-Whitney?sU = 2113.5, p < 0.01 (see Figure 6).
On aver-3611 12 13 14 15 160.000.050.100.150.20log(r?volume) vs Frequencylog(r?volume)Pattern Frequencyll lll llll lllllllllll lLinear RegressionExponential RegressionFigure 7: Linear and exponential regressions of typologi-cal frequency as a function of the natural logarithm of thepattern?s r-volume.age, the attested stress patterns are consistent with1,586,437 rankings each, versus 299,118.1 rankingsfor the unattested ones.Furthermore, the frequency of attested patternshas a strong linear correlation with r-volume: R2 =0.7236, p < 0.001.
However, a linear rela-tion is probably not appropriate, as a normal Q-Qplot of the residuals of the regression indicates anupper-quartile deviation from linearity, and Cook?sdistance metric indicates that several data-pointsexert disproportionate influence on the explainedvariance.
Instead, typological frequency seems tobe better modeled as a function of the logarithmof the r-volume; Figure 7 illustrates both a lin-ear (R2 = 0.39, p < 0.05) and exponential(R2 = 0.704, p < 0.001) fit of frequencies to log-transformed r-volumes.4 Interpretation and Future WorkThe correlates of attestation and frequency reportedhere suggest novel ways that linguistic models mightbe used to make testable predictions about typol-ogy.
Two of these correlates?k-gram entropy andconfusability?are particularly general, their calcu-lation requiring only the set of possible languagesor patterns that a model can specify.
It remains aninteresting question whether these same quantitiesretain predictive power for other sorts of data andmodels than are considered here, and whether suchcorrelations might fruitfully be incorporated into anevaluation metric for linguistic models.The r-volume result motivates a particular line offurther research on the nature of constraints in OT:how exactly the contents of a constraint set deter-mine the distribution of r-volumes in the factorialtypology.
In addition, there are several other po-tentially relevant concepts in the literature, includ-ing Anttila?s (1997, 2002, 2007) ranking-countingmodel of variation, Anttila and Andrus?
(2006) ?T-orders?
and Prince and Tesar?s (1999) ?restrictive-ness measure,?
whose relations to r-volume meritexamination.
Our results for r-volume in this casealso suggest that a fully generalized notion of para-metric grammar volume may be worth investigatingacross different kinds of models and various typo-logical phenomena.Insofar as the three correlates?
strength as typo-logical predictors depends on the set of stress pat-terns generated by Gordon?s model, their signif-icance is consistent with the hypothesis that themodel is useful and has some predictive power.
Suchstatistical significance is rather surprising, sinceGordon?s model was developed primarily as an at-tempt to satisfy the inclusion-exclusion criterion,without any explicit eye toward the kinds of pre-dictions that these correlates seem to suggest it canmake.
This is especially true of r-volume, as it is thecorrelate most tightly coupled to the OT particularsof Gordon?s model.
These findings motivate furtherresearch on the general relationship, if any, betweenthe inclusion-exclusion predictions of a model (opti-mality theoretic or otherwise) and its frequency pre-dictions according to the measures presented here.On the other hand, the entropy and confusability re-sults suggest the intriguing possibility of discardingsuch a model altogether, and instead picking the at-tested stress systems (and their frequencies) directlyfrom the large pool of logically possible ones, ac-cording to these measures and others like them.AcknowledgementsWe owe many thanks to Jeff Heinz for the typologi-cal data used in this study, and to Alan Yu, MorganSonderegger, and the anonymous reviewers of SIG-MORPHON 2008 for insightful commentary.37ReferencesA.
Abrahamson.
1968.
Constrastive distribution ofphoneme classes in Ic?ua?
Tupi.
Anthropological Lin-guistics, 10(6):11?21.Arto Anttila and Curtis Andrus.
2006.
T-Orders.Manuscript, Stanford University.Arto Anttila.
1997.
Deriving variation from gram-mar.
In Frans Hinskens, Roeland van Hout, and LeoWetzels, editors, Variation, Change and PhonologicalTheory, pages 35?68.
John Benjamins Press, Amster-dam/Philadelphia.Arto Anttila.
2002.
Variation and phonological the-ory.
In Jack Chambers, Peter Trudgill, and Na-talie Schilling-Estes, editors, Handbook of LanguageVariation and Change, pages 206?243.
Blackwell,Malden, Mass.Arto Anttila.
2007.
Variation and optionality.
In Paulde Lacy, editor, The Cambridge Handbook of Phonol-ogy.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Todd Bailey.
1995.
Nonmetrical Constraints on Stress.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Minnesota.D.B.W.
Birk.
1976.
The Malakmalak Language, DalyRiver (Western Arnhem Land).
Australian NationalUniversity, Canberra.Bart de Boer.
2000.
Self-organization in vowel systems.Journal of Phonetics, 28:441?465.I.J.
Good.
1953.
The population frequencies ofspecies and the estimation of population parameters.Biometrika, 40(3/4):237?264, December.Matthew Gordon.
2002.
A factorial typology ofquantity-insensitive stress.
Natural Language andLinguistic Theory, 20(3):491?552.Morris Halle and Jean-Roger Vergnaud.
1987.
An Essayon Stress.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Bruce Hayes.
1980.
A Metrical Theory of Stress Rules.Ph.D.
thesis, MIT, Cambridge, MA.Bruce Hayes.
1995.
Metrical Stress Theory: Princi-ples and Case Studies.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago.Jeffrey Heinz, Greg Kobele, and Jason Riggle.
2005.
Ex-ploring the typology of quantity-insensitive stress sys-tems without gradient constraints.
Handout, 2005 An-nual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of America.Jeffrey Nicholas Heinz.
2007.
Inductive Learning ofPhonotactic Patterns.
Ph.D. thesis, UCLA.Larry Hyman.
1977.
On the nature of linguistic stress.In Larry Hyman, editor, Studies in Stress and Accent,pages 37?82.
University of Southern California, De-partment of Linguistics, Los Angeles.Johan Liljencrants and Bjorn Lindblom.
1972.
Numer-ical simulation of vowel quality systems: The role ofperceptual contrast.
Language, 48(4):839?862.John Lynch.
1974.
Lenakel Phonology.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Hawaii.Ian Maddieson.
1984.
Patterns of Sounds.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Elliott Moreton.
in press.
Learning bias as a factor inphonological typology.
In Charles Chang and AnnaHavnie, editors, Proceedings of the 26th Meeting ofthe West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics.Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky.
1993.
Optimalitytheory: Constraint interaction in generative grammar.Ms., Rutgers University and University of Colorado,Boulder.Alan Prince and Bruce Tesar.
1999.
Learning phonotac-tic distributions.
Ms., ROA 535.Alan Prince.
1983.
Relating to the grid.
Linguistic In-quiry, 14:19?100.Alan Prince.
2002.
Entailed ranking arguments.
RutgersOptimality Archive, ROA-500.Jason Riggle, Max Bane, James Kirby, and JeremyO?Brien.
2007.
Efficiently computing OT typologies.In 2007 Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society ofAmerica.Jason Riggle.
2004.
Generation, Recognition, andLearning in Finite State Optimality Theory.
Ph.D. the-sis, UCLA.Jason Riggle.
2008.
Counting rankings.
Manuscript,University of Chicago.
Draft available athttp://hum.uchicago.edu/?jriggle/.Shaligram Shukla.
1981.
Bhojpuri Grammar.
George-town University Press.Udai Tiwari.
1960.
The Origin and Development of Bho-jpuri.
Number 10 in Asiatic Society Monograph.
Asi-atic Society, Calcutta.38
