BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 96?97,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Natural Language Processing to Classify Suicide NotesJohn P. Pestian*, Pawel Matykiewicz, Jacqueline Grupp-Phelan,Sarah Arszman Lavanier, Jennifer Combs, and Robert KowatchCincinnati Children?s Hospital Medical CenterCincinnati, OH 45220, USAjohn.pestian@cchmc.orgAbstractWe hypothesize that machine-learning algo-rithms (MLA) can classify completer andsimulated suicide notes as well as mentalhealth professionals (MHP).
Five MHPsclassified 66 simulated or completer notes;MLAs were used for the same task.
Results:MHPs were accurate 71% of the time; usingthe sequential minimization optimizationalgorithm (SMO) MLAs were accurate 78%of the time.
There was no significant differ-ence between the MLA and MPH classifiers.This is an important first step in developingan evidence based suicide predictor foremergency department use.1 ProblemSuicide is the third leading cause of death inadolescents and a leading cause of death in theUnited States1.
Those who attempt suicide usuallyarrive at the Emergency Department seeking help.These individuals are at risk for a repeated attempt,that may lead to a completed suicide2.
We knowof no evidence-based risk assessment tool for pre-dicting repeated suicide attempts.
Thus, EmergencyMedicine clinicians are often left to manage suicidalpatients by clinical judgment alone.
This researchfocuses on the initial stage for constructing suchan evidence based tool, the Psychache3 Index.Our efforts herein posit that suicide notes are anartifact of a victim?s thoughts and that the thoughtsbetween completers and attempters are different.Using natural language processing we attempt todistinguish between completer notes and notes thathave been simulated by individuals who match theprofile of the completer.
Understanding how tooptimize classification methods between these typesof notes prepares us for future work that can includeclinical and biological factors.2 MethodsSuicidal patients are classified into three categories:ideators ?those who think about committing sui-cide, attempters ?those who attempt suicide, andcompleters ?those who complete suicide.
This re-search focuses on the completers and a group of in-dividuals called simulators.
These simulators werematched to completers by age, gender and socioe-conomic status and asked to write a suicide note4.Suicide notes from 33 completers and 33 simulatorswere annotated with linguistic characteristics usinga perl-program with the EN:Lingua:Tagger module.Emotional characteristics were annotated by assign-ing terms in the note to a suicide-emotion ontologythat was developed from a meta analysis of 2,166suicide related manuscripts and validated with ex-pert opinion.
This ontology includes such classesas: affection, anger, depression, and worthlessness.Each class had multiple concepts, i.e, affection?love, concern for others, and gratitude.
Three MHPsread each note and tagged emotion-words found inthe notes with the appropriate classes and concepts.Analysis of variance between structures was con-ducted to insure that there actually was a differencethat could be detected.
Emotional annotations wereused for machine-learning.96We then tested the hypothesis that MLAs coulddistinguish between completer and simulated notesas well as MHPs.
Copies of the notes were givento five MHPs who classified them as either writtenby a completer or an simulator.
MLA feature spacewas defined by matrix of selected characteristicsfrom four sources: words, parts of speech, concepts,and readability indexes.
Collinearity was eliminatedby removing highly correlated features.
The finalfeature space included: specific words (such as?love?, ?life?, ?no?
), specific parts of speech (suchas, personal pronouns, verbs) Kincaid readabilityindex and emotional concepts (such as anger,and hopelessness).
We then tested the followingalgorithms?
ability to distinguish between completerand simulator notes: decision trees - J48, C4.5,LMT, DecisionStump, M5P; classification rules -JRip, M5, OneR, PART; function models - SMO,logistic builds, multinomial logistic regression,linear regression; lazy learners and meta learners5.3 ResultsA significant difference was found between thelinguistic and emotional characteristics of the notes.Linguistic differences (completer/simulated): wordcount 120/66 p=0.007, verbs 25/13 p=0.012, nouns28/12 p=0.0001, and prepositions 20/10 p=0.005.This difference justified testing the classificationhypothesis.
Emotionally, completers gave awaytheir possessions 20% of the time, simulators, neverdid.
Mental health experts accurately classified thenotes 71% of the time.
The MLAs were accurate60-79% of the time with SMO giving the highestresults when the word count, part-of-speech, andreadability vectors were included.
Performanceweakened when the emotional vector was included,yet the emotional vector was the primary source ofdata for the MHPs.4 ConclusionMachine learning methods for classifying suicideand non-suicide notes are promising.
Future effortsto represent the thoughts of the suicidal patient willrequire larger sample sizes, inclusion of attemptersresponse to open-ended questions, biological andclinical characteristics.5 AcknowledgementsWe acknowledge Drs.
AA Leenaars, ES Shneidman,the divisions of Biomedical Informatics, EmergencyMedicine and Psychiatry at Cincinnati Children?sHospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnatiand Ohio Third Frontier program for their generoussupport of this work.References:[1] Jeffrey A Bridge, Tina R Goldstein, and David A Brent.Adolescent suicide and suicidal behavior.
J Child PsycholPsychiatry, 47(3-4):372?394, 2006.
[2] P M Lewinsohn, P Rohde, and J R Seeley.
Psychosocialrisk factors for future adolescent suicide attempts.
JConsult Clin Psychol, 62(2):297?305, 1994.
[3] E S Shneidman.
Suicide as psychache.
J Nerv Ment Dis,181(3):145?147, 1993.
[4] ES Shneidman and NL Farberow.
Clues to Suicide.McGraw Hill Paperbacks, 1957.
[5] I.H.
Witten and E. Frank.
Data Mining: PracticalMachine Learning Tools ad Techniques.
MorganKaufman, 2nd edition, 2005.97
