Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (COGALEX 2008), pages 39?46Manchester, August 2008First ideas of user-adapted views of lexicographic dataexemplified on OWID and elexikoCarolin M?ller-SpitzerInstitut f?r Deutsche SpracheR 5, 6-13D-68161 Mannheimmueller-spitzer@ids-mannheim.deChristine M?hrsInstitut f?r Deutsche SpracheR 5, 6-13D-68161 Mannheimmoehrs@lexik.ids-mannheim.de1AbstractThis paper is a project report of the lexi-cographic Internet portal OWID, anOnline Vocabulary Information Systemof German which is being built at the In-stitute of German Language in Mann-heim (IDS).
Overall, the contents of theportal and its technical approaches willbe presented.
The lexical database isstructured in a granular way which al-lows to extend possible search optionsfor lexicographers.
Against the back-ground of current research on using elec-tronic dictionaries, the project OWID isalso working on first ideas of user-adapted access and user-adapted views ofthe lexicographic data.
Due to the factthat the portal OWID comprises diction-aries which are available online it is pos-sible to change the design and functionsof the website easily (in comparison toprinted dictionaries).
Ideas of implement-ing user-adapted views of the lexico-graphic data will be demonstrated by us-ing an example taken from one of thedictionaries of the portal, namely elexiko.1 Project reportThe Online-Wortschatz-InformationssystemDeutsch (OWID; Online Vocabulary InformationSystem of German), a project of the Institut f?rDeutsche Sprache (IDS; Institute of GermanLanguage) in Mannheim is a lexicographic Inter-?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.net portal containing both, various electronic dic-tionary resources that are currently being com-piled at the IDS on the one hand and externalresources on the other hand which will be in-cluded additionally in the near future (cf.www.owid.de).
Originally, the project had itsroots based in the IDS project elexiko, a lexico-graphic enterprise, which develops a new corpus-based dictionary of contemporary German.
Itformed the basis of a lexicographic informationportal for the IDS (cf.
Klosa et al 2006).
Themain emphasis of OWID is on the integration ofdifferent academic lexicographic resources withthe focus on contemporary German.
Presently,the following dictionaries are included in OWID:?
elexiko: This electronic dictionary consistsof an index of about 300.000 short entrieswith information on spelling and syllabica-tion, including information about inflection(from www.canoo.net).
In the near future,further information (e.g.
on word formation)and corpus samples will be added for all lex-emes.
Furthermore, elexiko comprises over900 fully elaborated entries of headwordswhich are highly frequent in the underlyingcorpus.
These contain extensive semantic-pragmatic descriptions of lexical items in ac-tual language use.
The dictionary is being ex-tended continuously by further elaboratedentries (cf.
Klosa et al 2006).?
Neologismenw?rterbuch (Dictionary ofNeologisms): This electronic dictionary de-scribes about 800 new words and new mean-ings of established words in detail whichemerged in the German vocabulary duringthe 1990s.
This dictionary is also being up-graded constantly.?
Wortverbindungen online (CollocationsOnline): This resource of OWID publishesthe research results of the project Usuelle39OWID DTD-librarymodules for thewhole OWID portalallg-entities.dtd(DTD for general enti-ties)allg-elemente.dtd(DTD for general ele-ments and attributes)modules for cross-dictionary objectgroupsewl-objekte.dtd(DTD for objects ofsingle-word-items)mwl-objekte.dtd(DTD for objects ofmulti-word-items)ewl_mwl-objekte.dtd(DTD for objects ofsingle-word-and multi-word-tems)ewl-grammatik.dtd(DTD for grammaticalobjects)modules for objectgroups of specificdictionarieselexiko-allgobj.dtd(DTD for general objectsof elexiko)neo-allgobj.dtd(DTD for general objectsof the neologism-dictionary)Head-DTDs foreach dictionaryelexiko-ewl.dtd(Head-DTD for elexiko)neo-ewl.dtd(Head-DTD for single-word-items of the neolo-gism-dictionary)neo-mwl.dtd(Head-DTD for multi-word-items of the neolo-gism-dictionary)mwl.dtd(Head-DTD formulti-word-items of theproject ?Usuelle Wort-verbindungen?
)zeitreflexion1945-55.dtd(Head-DTD for thediscourse-dictionary1945-55)Table 1.
OWID DTD-libraryWortverbindungen.
These concern differentfixed multiword combinations.
Currently, 25detailed entries for fixed multiword combi-nations and 100 shorter entries dealing withcollocations are available to users.?
Diskursw?rterbuch 1945-55 (DiscourseDictionary 1945-55): This dictionary is a ref-erence work resulting from a larger study oflexemes that establish the notional area of?guilt?
in the early post-war era (1945-55),published in 2005.In the near future, the ?Handbuch DeutscherKommunikationsverben?
(Handbook of GermanCommunication Verbs) with approximately 350paradigms of communication verbs as well as the?VALBU ?
Valenzw?rterbuch deutscher Ver-ben?
(Valency Dictionary of German Verbs) willbe published in OWID.It has always been an explicit goal of OWIDnot to present a random collection of unrelateddictionary resources but to build a network ofinterrelated lexicographic products.
Therefore itwas necessary to maintain the independence ofeach individual dictionary project while, at thesame time, to ensure the integration of all thedifferent data.
Even though, the different lexico-graphic resources may appear to be very diverseat first glance, they share some of their datamodelling features.
Both, the common intergra-tion and the individual independence of each pro-ject are reflected in the current online presenta-tion of the portal.
On the welcome page ofOWID the user can choose which dictionary s/hewants to use.
If s/he looks up a word in all dic-tionaries of the portal there is a coloured markerindicating the corresponding dictionary resource(black = elexiko, blue = Neologism, green = Dis-course dictionary, red = Collocations).
In addi-tion, there are links and cross-references betweenthe products (see for example the interrelationbetween the entry ?Liebe macht blind?
in thedictionary ?Collocations Online?
and the entries?Liebe?
/ ?blind?
in elexiko).
This kind of inter-relation will be expanded in the future.Another goal is to provide a basis for user-adapted access to the lexicographic data.
?It isone thing to be able to store ever more data, butanother thing entirely to present just the data us-ers want in response to a particular look-up?
(deSchryver 2003: 178).
Hence, the core of the pro-ject is the design of an innovative concept of datamodelling and structuring.2 Data ModellingAs emphasised before, the contents of the indi-vidual participating projects and their compiledlexicographic resources in OWID are independ-ent of each other.
However, it has been obviousfrom the very beginning that the value of OWIDwould be increased, if more common accessstructures for the different contents were to bedeveloped and if the lexicographic data had been40Figure 1: Advanced search options for lexicographersinterlinked even more adequately.
So on the onehand, in order to guarantee a basis for a commonaccess structure to the all contents, consistentprinciples for modelling and structuring the con-tents were applied to all integrated products.
Onthe other hand, OWID is also kept open for thepossible integration of externally developed lexi-cographic resources, namely reference works thatare written outside the IDS.
However, externallycompiled data has to be structured in accordanceto the OWID modelling concept.The approach chosen here not only guaranteesto connect different lexicographic products underthe management of OWID on the macro structurelevel ?
which means the level of the headwords ?but also makes it possible to access the dictionar-ies on a more granular level.
OWID attempts toharmonise modelling on the level of the contentstructure, that is, the level of the individual lexi-cographic information unit rather than organizingthe different lexicographic processes independ-ently.OWID uses a single modelling process for allprojects: For each individual resource, a specifi-cally-tailored XML-DTD and XML-schemawere developed respectively.
Each individualinformation unit is granularly tagged in all entrystructures, so that automatic access to each con-tent unit is ensured.
The dictionary entries arethen written in an XML editor and stored in anOracle database system.
For presentation pur-poses, the XML data are transformed by anXSLT stylesheet to HTML (cf.
M?ller-Spitzer2007).A DTD library was created for OWID wherespecific DTDs contain all entities, elements, orattributes that are shared by all entry structures inorder to provide a uniform structure for lexico-graphic information of the same type which iscontained in the different dictionaries (cf.
Tab.1).
The modelling shows which information isaccessible across the different dictionaries (theresults from the different dictionaries are markedin different colours).
This type of data modelling?
a singular specificially-tailored but explicitlysynchronised modelling for diverse lexicographicresources ?
can be considered to be an innovativeapproach of a new kind, as Schlaps (2007) andKunze / Lemnitzer (2007) have recently ex-plained.We decided to use a specifically-tailored mod-elling because the XML-structure also serves as amodel for compiling the lexicographic entries inthe XML-Editor.
What this means for lexicogra-phers is that the more individually customisedthe XML-structure is, the less one needs an addi-tional manual for comply with the entry struc-ture.
However, one could easily transform thisstructure into a specific standard such as LMF orTEI because the structure is very fine-grained.The following XML detail of the entry ?emailen?from the Dictionary of Neologisms illustratingthe tagging of information on valency gives anexample for the overall granularity of tagging.41<vb-valenz-neu><satzbauplan><satzbauplanA>jemand emailt (jemandem) (et-was)</satzbauplanA></satzbauplan><satzbauplan><satzbauplanA> jemand emailt (etwas) an je-manden</satzbauplanA></satzbauplan><satzbauplan><satzbauplanA>jemand emailt, dass[...]</satzbauplanA></satzbauplan><vb-komplemente-neu><subjekt-komp-neu obligatorisch="ja"><nom-nominalphrase-neu/></subjekt-komp-neu><objekt-komp-vb obligatorisch="nein"><dat-nominalphrase-vb/></objekt-komp-vb><objekt-komp-vb obligatorisch="nein"><akk-nominalphrase-vb/><dass-satz-vb/></objekt-komp-vb><objekt-komp-vb obligatorisch="ja"><praepositionalphrase-vb praepositi-on="an"/></objekt-komp-vb></vb-komplemente-neu></vb-valenz-neu>Within our internal editorial system, lexicog-raphers are able to use this structure for advancedsearches (with XPath expressions).
For example,one can search for all regular verbs(//vollverb) which have obligatory objectcomplements (//objekt-komp-vb/@obligatorisch="ja" which are realisedas a dative NP (//dat-nominalphrase-vb).In this example, the search results are entriesfrom elexiko as well as from the neologism-dictionary (cf.
Fig.
1).
We are planning to pro-vide these extended search options also for us-ers.2Moreover, it would be possible to involve theuser in the process of deciding which informationshould be presented on the website.
As ex-plained, every information unit in the dictionariesis encoded separately.
Against this background,we can think of customizing the microstructureby the users themselves (in addition to the ex-tended search for example in elexiko).
So theuser could select the type of information s/he2The development of the Electronic Dictionary Ad-ministration System (cf.
Fig.
1) is a work of RomanSchneider, a researcher of the IDS.wants to use individually.
Fig.
2 shows whatsuch a presentation could look like.
At the top ofthe page, the user is able to select the type of in-formation which s/he wants to see directly un-derneath.
If s/he wants to change the options s/hecan use the update button in order to modulatethe desktop view.
In this example, the two differ-ent senses of the entry ?Meer?
are shown side byside with the chosen kind of information (herethe definition together with typical uses of theheadword).
This kind of presentation enables theusers to compare this information given for thetwo senses at one sight.3 Research on using electronic diction-ariesResearch on using dictionaries is a core field ofstudy in lexicography (cf.
Wang 2001 or Atkins1998).
Fortunately, in the last two decades, re-search on using printed dictionaries has attractedthe attention of more researchers.
AlthoughEngelberg and Lemnitzer had noticed in 2001that there are only little inquiries about influ-ences on the users?
behaviour in relation to inno-vations in the field of electronic lexicography (cf.Engelberg and Lemnitzer 2001), in the last fewyears research on electronic dictionaries hasgrown.Such metalexicographic research plays a ma-jor role with regard to monitoring the dictionaryuser on the Internet ?
for example in the analysisof log-files.
At the moment, there are not manyresearch reports about the analysis of log-files.
?Although the proposal to draw upon log files inorder to improve dictionaries was already ex-pressed in the mid-1980s [?
], and although nu-merous researchers have reiterated this idea inrecent years [?
], very few reports have beenpublished of real-world dictionaries actuallymarking use of this strategy?
(de Schryver andJoffe 2004, 187).
The studies and methods men-tioned here are interesting for research on usingelectronic dictionaries especially because anelectronic dictionary is a product which can bemodulated and updated immediately.
Log-filescan show what the user has inserted into thesearch box and how the user has navigated (cf.de Schryver and Joffe 2004).
However, goodresults are only seen with this method if the data-base of the dictionary is created with a flat struc-ture.
In the actual log- files we only see whichword the user has typed in the search box.
Wecan not easily detect in which way and how com-fortly the user navigates through the entry or42Figure 2.
Online view of elexiko with an information display for customizing the microstructure dy-namicallywhich information s/he has looked at moreclosely.
However, this is exactly the type of in-formation we are looking for.
Therefore, othermethods like standardised evaluation, interviewsetc.
also have to be taken into account.
Analysinglog-files can not substitute these methods alone.OWID is also gradually putting user researchinto practice: Firstly, OWID has been makinguse of the analysis of log-files for some time.Secondly, a standardised online survey was con-ducted in the context of an MA thesis (cf.Scherer 2008).
Finally, a short study based oninterviews of OWID and in particular of elexiko,one of the dictionaries of the portal, was carriedout.Although currently the modelling is usedmainly in the lexicographic process there is still alot of room for further development of the abili-ties to present the structured information.
Thecapability of data modelling in OWID should bevisible for lexicographers as well as for users (cf.M?ller-Spitzer 2007).
Involving the user andhis/her requirements in searching and navigatingthrough OWID is the starting point for defininguser-adapted views of the lexicographic data.4 Defining user-adapted ViewsAs shown above, the lexicographic contents arestructured granulary and strictly content-based.This technology allows to define user-adaptedviews of the lexicographic data.
Printed diction-aries cannot offer this option.
A printed diction-ary is designed for a specific user type and forspecific situations of use as a whole.
In OWID,the data for electronic dictionaries is initially or-ganised independently of its users.
In a secondstep, lexicographic information can be used asthe foundation of the definition of user-specificlayers (e.g.
based on the technology of XSLT-stylesheets) in order to filter relevant data for aspecific situation of use ?on demand?.
Know-legde on what users prototypically look for inprinted dictionaries is established by numerousresearch works.
For example someone who usesa dictionary to understand a text wants to get ashort overview on the meaning of a word.
Ifsomeone has to produce a text it is more helpfulto get word information about correct spelling,grammar, typical uses, collocations or sense-related items.
Furthermore lexicographers of43Figure 3.
Extracts of XML-entities and their possible online view for learners of German as a foreignlanguage (entry w?nschen, part ?Grammar?
for the meaning 'ersehnen')electronic dictionaries can go into detail aboutthe demands of learners of German as foreignlanguage (L2-Learners) resp.
German nativespeakers.
By taking this into consideration, onecan think of developing different profiles for dif-ferent user situations.
According to a chosen pro-file the lexicographic information is then pre-sented in a specialised way.
This would be an-other form of a user-adapted view (besides cus-tomizing the microstructure dynamically as it isshown in Fig.
2).
In elexiko, one of the dictionar-ies of OWID, the online view presents the lexi-cographic data in one standardised view.
How-ever, the technical conditions can also allow toshow the same XML-data of an entry in differentways for different user groups.
As an exampleone can see the part ?Grammar?
in elexiko inFigure 3 and 4 differing in comprehensiveness.Detailed information on inflection and word or-der are very important for L2-Learners.
There-fore such information is presented more exten-sively in Fig.
3.
In comparison native speakersknow intuitionally the inflection of words or therealization of different sentence constructions.
InFig.
4 one can see a shortened presentation ofgrammatical information of the same XML-data.This example illustrates the general principle ofdefining different user-adapted views of one lexi-cographic data.
It is important that the differentuser-adapted presentations of the part ?Gram-mar?
in elexiko or every other part of word in-formation in elexiko can be realised withoutchanging the data.
The only change happens inthe stylesheet.
Other views completely differentfrom the actually used stylesheet can be imag-ined easily.
We will discuss further examples inthe talk.For a printed dictionary it is sufficient to de-fine the types of information that shall be in-cluded for the intendend user.
Questions of pres-entation are discussed on this basis and along thestrong tradition for the layout of printed diction-aries.
When compiling user-adapted views of ageneral lexicographic data for an electronic me-dium we have to consider:How do users navigate in electronic dictionar-ies especially in a dictionary portal?
How do theyuse the search options?
Which form of nestingthe specific word information is user friendly andwhen does clearness suffer?
(Cf.
Almind 2005)More specifically we need to ask: Should a user(i.e.
while using a dictionary) create a profile at44Figure 4.
Extracts of XML-entities and their possible online view for German native speakersthe beginning of a session (e.g.
user type: non-native speaker, situation of use: reception of atext) and should s/he navigate in all articles withthis profile?
Or is it more user friendly to beingable to change ones profile and look at the sameentry with different profiles which means cus-tomizing the microstructure dynamically?As OWID fulfills all technical requirementsfor a user-adapted presentation, as shown above,this project will be able to realise innovativeforms of access to the lexicographic data.
Re-search on the use of the dictionaries published inOWID will be the basis on which different formsof presentation will be developed.ReferencesAlmind, Richard.
2005.
Designing Internet Dictionar-ies, in: Hermes 34:37-54.Atkins, B. T. Sue (Ed.)
(1998): Using dictonaries.Studies of dictionary use by language learners andtranslators.
(= Lexicographica.
Series maior 88),T?bingen.De Schryver, Gilles-Maurice.
2003.
Lexicographer?sDreams in the Electronic-Dictionary Age, in: In-ternational Journal of Lexicography 16 (2):143-199.De Schryver, Gilles Maurice / Joffe, David.
2004.
OnHow Electronic Dictionaries are Really Used, in:Proceedings of the Eleventh EURALEX Interna-tional Congress, EURALEX 2004, Lorient, France.Vol.
I, ed.
by Geoffrey Williams / Sandra Ves-sier:187?196.Engelberg, Stefan / Lemnitzer, Lothar.
2001.
Lexiko-graphie und W?rterbuchbenutzung.
T?bingen:Stauffenburg.Klosa, Annette / Schn?rch, Ulrich / Storjohann, Petra.2006.
ELEXIKO - A lexical and lexicological, cor-pus-based hypertext information system at the In-stitut f?r Deusche Sprache, Mannheim, in: Pro-ceedings of the 12th EURALEX InternationalCongress (Atti del XII Congresso Internazionale diLessicografia), EURALEX 2006, Turin, Italy, Sep-tember 6th-9th, 2006.
Vol.
1, ed.
by Carla Marello etal., Alessandria:425-430.Kunze, Claudia / Lemnitzer, Lothar.
2007.
Computer-lexikographie.
Eine Einf?hrung.
T?bingen: Narr.M?ller-Spitzer, Carolin (2007): Das elexiko-Portal:Ein neuer Zugang zu lexikografischen Arbeiten amInstitut f?r Deutsche Sprache, in: Datenstrukturenf?r linguistische Ressourcen und ihre Anwendun-gen.
Proceedings of the Biennial GLDV Confer-ence 2007 (April 11-13, 2007, Eberhard Karls Uni-versit?t T?bingen), ed.
by Georg Rehm / AndreasWitt / Lothar Lemnitzer:179-188.Scherer, Tanja.
2008.
Umsetzung von Zugriffsstruktu-ren bei Online-W?rterb?chern.
Unver?ffentlichteMagisterarbeit an der Universit?t Mannheim, Phi-45losophische Fakult?t, Seminar f?r Deutsche Philo-logie, Germanistische Linguistik (Prof. Dr. L. M.Eichinger).Schlaps, Christiane.
2007.
Grundfragen der elektroni-schen Lexikographie.
Elexiko ?
das Online-Informationssystem zum deutschen Wortschatz.
Ed.by Ulrike Hass.
Berlin, New York: de Gruyter2005.
Short review?.
Lexicographica 22:311-314.Wang, Weiwei.
2001.
Zweisprachige Fachlexikogra-phie.
Benutzungsforschung, Typologie und mikro-strukturelle Konzeption, Frankfurt a.M. (= Ange-wandte Sprachwissenschaft 8).46
