BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 92?93,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Pilot Annotation to Investigate Discourse Connectivity in Biomedical TextHong Yu, Nadya Frid, Susan McRoy Rashmi Prasad, Alan Lee, Aravind JoshiUniversity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee University of PennsylvaniaP.O.Box 413 3401 Walnut StreetMilwaukee, WI 53201 Philadelphia, PA 19104, USAHongyu,frid,mcroy@uwm.edu Rjprasad,aleewk,joshi@seas.upenn.eduAbstractThe goal of the Penn Discourse Treebank(PDTB) project is to develop a large-scale cor-pus, annotated with coherence relations markedby discourse connectives.
Currently, the primaryapplication of the PDTB annotation has been tonews articles.
In this study, we tested whetherthe PDTB guidelines can be adapted to a differ-ent genre.
We annotated discourse connectivesand their arguments in one 4,937-token full-textbiomedical article.
Two linguist annotatorsshowed an agreement of 85% after simple con-ventions were added.
For the remaining 15%cases, we found that biomedical domain-specificknowledge is needed to capture the linguisticcues that can be used to resolve inter-annotatordisagreement.
We found that the two annotatorswere able to reach an agreement after discussion.Thus our experiments suggest that the PDTB an-notation can be adapted to new domains by mini-mally adjusting the guidelines and by addingsome further domain-specific linguistic cues.1 IntroductionLarge scale annotated corpora, e.g., the PennTreeBank (PTB) project (Marcus et al 1993),have played an important role in text-mining.The Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB)(http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~pdtb) (Prasad et al2008a) annotates the argument structure, seman-tics, and attribution of discourse connectives andtheir arguments.
The current release of PDTB-2.0 contains the annotations of 1,808 Wall StreetJournal articles (~1 million words) from thePenn TreeBank (Marcus et al 1993) II distribu-tion and a total of 40,600 discourse connectivetokens (Prasad et al 2008b).
This work exam-ines whether the PDTB annotation guidelinescan be adapted to a different genre, the biomedi-cal literature.2 NotationA discourse connective can be defined as aword or multiword expression that signals adiscourse relation.
Discourse connectivescan be subordinating conjunctions (e.g., be-cause, when, although), coordinating con-junctions (e.g., but, or, nor) and adverbials(e.g., however, as a result, for example).
Adiscourse connective takes in two argu-ments, Arg1 and Arg2.
Arg2 is the argumentthat appears in the clause that is syntacti-cally bound to the connective and Arg1 isthe other argument.
In the sentence ?Johnfailed the exam because he was lazy?
the dis-course connective is underlined, Arg1 ap-pears in italics and Arg2 appears in bold.3 A Pilot AnnotationFollowing the PDTB annotation manual (Prasadet al 2008b), we conducted a pilot annotation ofdiscourse connectivity in biomedical text.
As aninitial step, we only annotated the three most92important components of a discourse relation;namely, a discourse connective and its two ar-guments; we did not annotate attribution.
Twolinguist annotators independently annotated onefull-text biomedical article (Verpy et al 1999)that we randomly selected.
The article is 4,937tokens long.
When the annotation work wascompleted, we measured the inter-annotatoragreement, following the PDTB exact matchcriterion (Miltsakaki et al 2004).
According tothis criterion, a discourse relation is in dis-agreement if there is disagreement on any text-span (i.e., the discourse connective or any of itstwo arguments).
In addition, we also measuredthe agreement in the components (i.e., discourseconnectives and the arguments).
We discussedthe annotation results and made suggestions toadapt the PDTB guidelines to biomedical text.4 Results and DiscussionThe first annotator identified 74 discourse con-nectives, and the second annotator identified 75,68 of which were the same as those identified bythe first annotator.
The combined total numberof discourse connectives was 81.
The overallagreement in discourse connective identificationwas 68/81=84%.Of the 68 discourse connectives that were anno-tated by both annotators, 31 were an exactmatch, 31 had an exact match for Arg1, and 54had an exact match for Arg2.
The overallagreement for the 68 discourse relations is45.6% for exact match, 45.6% for Arg1, and79.4% for Arg2.
The PDTB also reported ahigher level of agreement in annotating Arg2than in annotating Arg1 (Miltsakaki et al 2004).We manually analyzed the cases with disagree-ment.
We found the disagreements are nearly allrelated to the annotation of citation references,supplementary clauses, and other conventions.When a few conventions for these cases wereadded, the inter-annotator agreement went up to85%.
We also found that different interpretationof a relation and its arguments by annotatorsplays an important role for the remaining 15%inconsistency, and domain-specific knowledgeis necessary to resolve such cases.5 New ConventionsAfter the completion of the pilot annotation andthe discussion, we decided to add the followingconventions to the PDTB annotation guidelinesto address the characteristics of biomedical text:i. Citation references are to be annotated asa part of an argument because the inclu-sion will benefit many text-mining tasksincluding identifying the semantic rela-tions among citations.ii.
Clausal supplements (e.g., relative orparenthetical constructions) that modifyarguments but are not minimallynecessary for the interpretation of therelation,  are annotated as part of thearguments.iii.
We will annotate a wider variety ofnominalizations as arguments thanallowed by the PDTB guidelines.We anticipate that these changes will both de-crease the amount of effort required for annota-tion and increase the reliability of theannotation.6 ReferencesMarcus M, Santorini B, Marcinkiewicz M (1993)Building a Large Annotated Corpus of Eng-lish: The Penn Treebank.
ComputationalLinguistics 19Miltsakaki E, Prasad R, Joshi A, Webber B (2004)Annotating discourse connectives and theirarguments.
Paper presented at Proceedingsof the NAACL/HLT Workshop: Frontiers inCorpus AnnotationPrasad R, Dinesh N, Lee A, Miltsakaki E, Robaldo L,Joshi A, Webber B (2008a) The Penn Dis-course Treebank 2.0.
Paper presented at The6th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC).
Marra-kech, MorrocoPrasad R, Miltsakaki E, Dinesh N, Lee A, Joshi A,Robaldo L, Webber B (2008b) The PennDiscourse TreeBank 2.0 Annotation Manual.Technical Report: IRCS-08-01Verpy E, Leibovici M, Petit C (1999) Characteriza-tion of otoconin-95, the major protein ofmurine otoconia, provides insights into theformation of these inner ear biominerals.Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 96:529-53493
