The Importance of Narrative and Other Lessons from an Evaluation of anNLG System that Summarises Clinical DataEhud Reiter, Albert Gatt, Franc?ois PortetDept of Computing ScienceUniversity of Aberdeen, UK{e.reiter,a.gatt,fportet}@abdn.ac.ukMarian van der Meulen?Dept of PsychologyUniversity of Edinburgh, UKm.a.van-der-meulen@sms.ed.ac.ukAbstractThe BABYTALK BT-45 system generates tex-tual summaries of clinical data about babies ina neonatal intensive care unit.
A recent task-based evaluation of the system suggested thatthese summaries are useful, but not as effec-tive as they could be.
In this paper we presenta qualitative analysis of problems that theevaluation highlighted in BT-45 texts.
Manyof these problems are due to the fact that BT-45 does not generate good narrative texts; thisis a topic which has not previously receivedmuch attention from the NLG research com-munity, but seems to be quite important forcreating good data-to-text systems.1 IntroductionData-to-text NLG systems produce textual outputbased on the analysis and interpretation of non-linguistic data (Reiter, 2007).
Systems which pro-duce short summaries of small amounts of data, suchas weather-forecast generators (Reiter et al, 2005),have been one of the most successful applications ofNLG, and there is growing interest in creating sys-tems which produce longer summaries of larger datasets.We have recently carried out an evaluation of onesuch system, BT-45 (Portet et al, 2007), which gen-erates multi-paragraph summaries of clinical datafrom a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU).
Thesummaries cover a period of roughly 45 minutes,and describe both sensor data (heart rate, blood oxy-gen saturation, etc, sampled at 1 sec intervals) aswell as discrete events such as drug administration;?Now at the Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Univer-sity Hospital, Geneva, Switzerlandthey are intended to help medical staff make treat-ment decisions.
This evaluation showed that from adecision-support perspective, the BT-45 texts wereas effective as visualisations of the data, but less ef-fective than human-written textual summaries.In addition to quantitative performance data,which is presented elsewhere (van der Meulen etal., submitted), the evaluation also gave us valuableclues about what aspects of data-to-text technologyneed to be improved in order to make texts gener-ated by such systems more effective as decision sup-port aids; this is the subject of this paper.
Somewhatto our surprise, many of the problems identified inthe evaluation relate to the fact that BT-45 could notproduce a good narrative describing the data.
Gen-eration of non-fictional narratives is not somethingwhich has been the focus of much NLG research inthe past, but our results suggest it is important, atleast in the context of producing texts which are ef-fective decision-support aids.1.1 Background: Data-to-TextData-to-text systems are motivated by the belief that(brief) linguistic summaries of datasets may in somecases be more effective than more traditional pre-sentations of numeric data, such as tables, statisticalanalyses, and graphical visualisations (even simplevisual/graphical displays require relatively complexcognitive processing (Carpenter and Shah, 1998)).Also linguistic summaries can be delivered in somecontexts where visualisations are not possible, suchas text messages on a mobile phone, or when theuser is visually impaired (Ferres et al, 2006).
In theNICU domain, Law et al (2005) conducted an ex-periment which showed that medical professionalswere more likely to make the correct treatment deci-147sion when shown a human-written textual summaryof the data than when they were shown a graphicalvisualisation of the data.A number of data-to-text systems have been de-veloped and indeed fielded, especially in the domainof weather forecasts (Goldberg et al, 1994; Reiteret al, 2005).
Most of these systems have gener-ated short (paragraph-length or smaller) summariesof relatively small data sets (less than 1KB).
Someresearch has been on systems that summarise largerdata sets (Yu et al, 2007; Turner et al, 2008), butthese systems have also generated paragraph-lengthsummaries; we are not aware of any previous re-search on generating multi-paragraph summaries ina data-to-text system.Data-to-texts systems have been evaluated in anumber of ways, including human ratings (the mostcommon technique) (Reiter et al, 2005), BLEU-likescores against human texts (Belz and Reiter, 2006),post-edit analyses (Sripada et al, 2005), and per-suasive effectiveness (Carenini and Moore, 2006).However, again to the best of our knowledge no pre-vious data-to-text system has been evaluated by ask-ing users to make decisions based on the generatedtexts, and measuring the quality of these decisions.2 BabyTalk and BT-45Law et al (2005) showed that human-written textualsummaries were effective decision-support aids inNICU, but of course it is not practical to expect medi-cal professionals to routinely write such summaries,especially considering that the summaries used byLaw et al in some cases took several hours to write.The goal of the BABYTALK research project is touse NLG and data-to-text technology to automati-cally generate textual summaries of NICU data, for avariety of audiences and purposes.
The first systemdeveloped in BABYTALK, and the subject of this pa-per, is BT-45 (Portet et al, 2007), which generatessummaries of 30-60 minute chunks of clinical data,for the purpose of helping nurses and doctors makeappropriate treatment decisions.An example of BABYTALK input data is shown inFigures 1 (sensor data) and 2 (selected event data).Figure 3 shows the human-written corpus text forthis scenario, and Figure 4 shows the BT-45 text gen-erated for this scenario.
Note that for the purposes ofFigure 1: Example Babytalk Input Data: SensorsHR = Heart Rate; TcPO2 = blood O2 level; TCPCO2 =blood CO2 level; SaO2 = oxygen saturation; T1 = chesttemperature; T2 = toe temperature; mean BP = bloodpressure.
The bars and triangles at the bottom show thetime of discrete events (Figure 2).event timeBlood transfusion 13.35Intermittent crying 13.38FiO2 (oxygen level) changed to 50% 13.51Incubator temperature changed to 36.4 13.52Attempt to insert line 13.53Line removed 13.57Attempt to insert line 13.58Line removed 14.00FiO2 (oxygen level) changed to 45% 14.03Attempt to insert line 14.08Line removed 14.09Figure 2: Example Babytalk Input Data: Selected Dis-crete Events148You saw the baby between 13:30 and 14:10.Over the course of the monitoring period the HR in-creases steadily from 140 to 165; the BP varies between41 and 49.At the start of the period T1 is 37 and T2 is 35.8C.During the first 15 minutes the pO2 is 7.8-9.2 and thepCO2 is 5.9-7.3.At 13:35 a blood transfusion is commenced.At 13:38 the baby is crying and there are a few up-ward spikes in the pO2 trace corresponding to downwardspikes in the pCO2 trace.
At 13.45 the humidity on theincubator walls is wiped away and T1 and T2 fall to 36.3and 35.4 respectivelyAt 13:50 the baby is examined.
There is a desaturation to72% and the FiO2 is changed to 50%.
Between now and14.10 there are several attempts to site a peripheral can-nula.
The pO2 and pCO2 both have spikes in the traces,pO2 reaching 19.2 and pCO2 reaching 0.4.
There are sev-eral episodes of artefact in the oxygen saturation trace.T1 and T2 fall to 36.2 and 35.7 and the oxygen saturationfalls to 65%.
The FiO2 is adjusted to 50%.
Also at thistime the incubator temperature is adjusted to 36.4C.At 14:03 with the pO2 at 13.9 and oxygen saturation at100%, the FiO2 is reduced to 45At 14:04 T1 rises sharply to 40, then drops fairly steeplyto 28.5C.
Between 14.06 and 14.10 there are severalspikes in the pO2 and pCO2 traces but by 14.10 the pO2is 8, pCO2 is 3.7, the oxygen saturation is 71%, the HRis 163, the BP 39, T1 29C and T2 35.4C.Figure 3: Corpus Text for Fig 1, 2 datathis paper, we have deliberately selected a relativelypoor quality BT-45 output text.The processing performed by BT-45 is describedby Portet et al (2007).
Very briefly, BT-45 generatestexts in four stages:?
signal analysis: for example, detecting spikesin the sensor channels; this is done using adap-tations of standard pattern detection and recog-nition algorithms.?
data abstraction: for example, identifyingthree line-insertion-attempt and line-removalevents within a short span of time andgrouping these into the higher-level con-cept LINE-INSERTION-PROCESS-FAILED (BT-You saw the baby between 13:30 and 14:10.
Heart Rate(HR) = 149.
Core Temperature (T1) = 37.0.
Periph-eral Temperature (T2) = 35.8.
Transcutaneous Oxygen(TcPO2 ) = 9.5.
Transcutaneous CO2 (TcPCO2) = 6.7.Mean Blood Pressure (mean BP) = 41.
Oxygen Satura-tion (SaO2) = 94.Over the next 39 minutes SaO2 decreased to 81, T2 de-creased to 34.5, HR stayed at around 151, T1 decreasedto 36.2 and mean BP stayed at around 40.A blood transfusion was given to the baby at 13:35.At 13:50 there was a desaturation down to 65.
As a result,Fraction of Inspired Oxygen (FIO2) was set to 50There were 3 failed attempts to insert a peripheral venousline at 13:53.
TcPO2 suddenly decreased to 8.1.
SaO2suddenly increased to 92.
TcPO2 suddenly decreased to9.3.
There was a spike in TcPO2 up to 14.8.
There hadbeen another spike in T1 up to 40.5.
FIO2 had been low-ered to 45%.
Previously the baby had been examined.Figure 4: BT-45 Text for Fig 1, 2 data45 includes a domain ontology of such con-cepts); this is done using knowledge-basedtechniques.?
document planning: for example, deciding notto mention most of the spikes in O2 and CO2;this is primarily done in a bottom-up fashion,using information (computed by the data ab-straction module) on the medical importance ofevents, and also on causal and other relation-ships between events.?
microplanning and realisation: producing theactual text shown in Figure 4; this is mostlydone using relatively standard NLG techniques,although we have developed new techniquesfor communicating temporal information andrelationships.3 Evaluation of BT-45BT-45 was evaluated by asking medical staff tomake decisions about what actions they should takewith regard to a baby, after viewing either a BT-45text, a human-written textual summary, or a visual-isation of the baby?s data; this was similar in gen-eral terms to the experiment described by Law et al(2005).
van der Meulen et al (submitted) gives de-149tails about the evaluation design and quantitative re-sults of the evaluation; in this paper we just brieflysummarise these aspects of the evaluationMaterial: Our medical collaborators selected 24scenarios (data sets), and defined 18 types of ac-tions.
For each of the data sets, they specified whichof the 18 actions were appropriate, inappropriate, orneutral (neither appropriate nor inappropriate); oneappropriate action was identified as the main targetaction.
For the data set shown in Figures 1 and 2, forexample:?
Main target action: Adjust monitoring equip-ment?
Other appropriate actions: calm/comfort baby,manage temperature, analyse blood sample?
Neutral actions: adjust CPAP (ventilation) set-tings, baby care (e.g., nappy change)?
Inappropriate actions: all other actions (e.g.blood transfusion, order X-Ray) (12 in all)For each scenario, we created three presentations: avisualisation (similar to Figure 1), a human-writtentext summary written by our collaborators, and thesummary produced by BT-45.
Our collaboratorswere asked not to include any explicit medical in-terpretation of the data in their human-written sum-maries.
For each scenario, our collaborators alsoprepared a text which gave background informationabout the baby.When developing BT-45, we had access to thedata collection that the scenario data sets were takenfrom (which includes several months of data), butdid not know ahead of time which specific scenarioswould be used in the experiment.Subjects: 35 medical professionals, including ju-nior nurses, senior nurses, junior doctors, and seniordoctors.Procedure: Each subject was shown 8 scenariosin each condition (visualisation, human text, BT-45text) in a Latin Square design; all subjects were alsoshown the background texts.
Subjects were asked tospecify which actions should be taken for this baby,selecting actions from a fixed set of check-boxes;they were given three minutes to make this deci-sion.
Subjects were not explicitly asked for free-textcomments, but any comments spontaneously madeby subjects were recorded.
Subject responses werescored by computing the percentage of appropriateactions they selected, and subtracting from this thepercentage of inappropriate actions.Results: The highest score was achieved by thehuman texts (mean score of 0.39); there was no sig-nificant difference between the BT-45 texts (meanscore of 0.34) and the visualisations (mean score of0.33).
The largest differences occurred in the ju-nior nurses group.
van der Meulen et al (submitted)present a detailed statistical analysis of the results.Discussion: This shows that BT-45 texts were aseffective as visualisation, but less effective than thehuman texts.
This suggests that data-to-text technol-ogy as it stands could be useful as a supplement tovisualisations (since some individuals do better withtexts and some with graphics; also some data sets arevisualised effectively and some are not), and in con-texts where visualisation is not possible.
But it alsosuggests that if we can improve the technology sothat computer-generated texts are as effective as hu-man texts, we should have a very effective decision-support technology.4 Quantitative Comparison of BT-45 andCorpus TextsIn addition to the task-based evaluation describedabove, we also quantitatively compared the BT-45and human texts, and qualitatively analysed prob-lems in the BT-45 texts.
Quantitative comparisonwas done by annotating the BT-45 and human textsto identify which events they mentioned.
For eachscenario, we computed the MASI coefficient (Pas-sonneau, 2006) between the set of events mentionedin the BT-45 and human texts.
The average MASIscore was 0.21 (SD = 0.13), which is low; thissuggests that BT-45 and the human writers choosedifferent content.
We also checked whether similarhuman and BT-45 texts (as judged by MASI score)obtained similar evaluation scores; in fact there wasno significant correlation between MASI similarityof human and BT-45 texts and the difference be-tween their evaluation scores.We performed a second analysis based on com-paring the structure (e.g., number and size of para-graphs) of the BT-45 and human texts, using atree-edit-distance metric to compare text structures.150Again this showed that there were large differencesbetween the structure of the BT-45 and human texts,and that these differences did correlate with differ-ences in evaluation scores.In other words, simple metrics of content andstructural differences do not seem to be good pre-dictors of text effectiveness; this is perhaps not sur-prising given the complexity of the texts and the in-formation they are communicating.5 Qualitative Analysis of Problems inBT-45 textsThe final step in our evaluation was to qualitativelyanalyse the BT-45 texts and the results of the task-based evaluation, in order to highlight problems inthe BT-45 texts.
Of course we were aware of numer-ous ways in which the software could be improved,but the evaluation gave us information about whichof these mattered most in terms of overall effective-ness.
We report this analysis below, including issuesidentified from subjects?
comments, issues identi-fied from scenarios where BT-45 texts did poorly,and problems identified via manual inspection of thetexts.
We do not distinguish between ?linguistic?
and?reasoning?
problems, in part because it is usuallydifficult (and indeed somewhat artificial) to separatethese aspects of BT-45.5.1 Problems Identified by SubjectsSubjects made a number of comments during the ex-periment.
Two aspects of BT-45 were repeatedlycriticised in these comments.5.1.1 Layout and bullet listsSubjects wanted better layout and formatting, inthe human texts as well as the BT-45 texts (BT-45texts do not currently include any visual formatting).In particular, they wanted bullet lists to be used, es-pecially for lab results.
Such issues have been exten-sively discussed by other researchers (e.g., (Power etal., 2003)), we will not further discuss them here.5.1.2 ContinuityBT-45 sometimes described changes in signals (orother events) which didn?t make sense because theyomitted intermediate events.
For example, considerthe last paragraph in the BT-45 text shown in Fig-ure 4 (with italics added):There were 3 failed attempts to insert a pe-ripheral venous line at 13:53.
TcPO2 sud-denly decreased to 8.1.
SaO2 suddenly in-creased to 92.
TcPO2 suddenly decreasedto 9.3.
There was a spike in TcPO2 upto 14.8.
There had been another spike inT1 up to 40.5.
FIO2 had been lowered to45%.
Previously the baby had been exam-ined.Subjects complained that it made no sense forTcPO2 to decrease to 9.3 when the last value men-tioned for this parameter was 8.1In this case (and in many others like it), BT-45had identified the decrease events as being medicallyimportant, but had not assigned as much importance,and hence not mentioned, the increase event (TcPO2went up to 19) between these decrease events.
Thisis partially because BT-45 believed that a TcPO2 of19 is a sensor artefact (not a real reading of bloodoxygen), since 19kPa is a very high value for thischannel.
In fact this is a correct inference on BT-45?s part, but the text is still confusing for readers.We call this problem continuity, making an anal-ogy to the problems that film-makers have in ensur-ing that scenes in a film (which maybe shot in verydifferent times and locations) fit together in the eyesof the viewer.
It is interesting to note that some ofthe human texts also seem to have continuity prob-lems (for example, the text in Figure 3 says T2 fallsto 35.4, and then says T2 falls to 35.7), but none ofthe subjects complained about continuity problemsin the human texts.
So some kinds of continuity vio-lations seem more problematical to readers than oth-ers.
Perhaps this depends on the proximity of theevents both in the document structure and in time;we hope to empirically explore this hypothesis.Continuity is just one aspect of the broader prob-lem of deciding which events need to be explicitlymentioned in the text, and which can be omitted.Making such decisions is perhaps one of the hard-est aspects of data-to-text.5.2 Scenarios Where BT-45 did BadlyWhen analysing the results of the experiment, wenoticed that BT-45 texts did as well as the humantexts for scenarios based on five of the eight targetactions; however they did significantly worse than151main target action human BT-45 diffAdjust CPAP 0.37 0.37 0Adjust monitoring equip 0.59 0.22 0.37Adjust ventilation 0.22 0.23 -0.01Extubate 0.14 0.12 0.02Manage temperature 0.55 0.33 0.22No action 0.61 0.43 0.18Suction 0.34 0.42 -0.08Support blood pressure 0.45 0.55 -0.10Table 1: Average evaluation score by main target actionthe human texts on the scenarios based on the otherthree actions (Adjust Monitoring Equipment, Man-age Temperature, and No Action).
Details are shownin Table 1; an ANOVA confirms that there is a sig-nificant effect of main target action on scores (p <.001).
We have identified a number of reasons whywe believe this is the case, which we discuss below.5.2.1 Too much focus on medically importanteventsContent-selection in BT-45 is largely driven byrules that assess the medical importance of eventsand patterns.
In particular, BT-45 tends to give lowimportance to events which it believes are due tosensor artefacts.
While this strategy makes sensein many cases, it leads to poor performance in sce-narios where the target action is Adjust Monitor-ing Equipment, when sensor problems need to bepointed out to the reader.This can be seen in the example scenario used inthis paper.
The TcPO2 and TcPCO2 traces shown inFigure 1 are full of sensor artefacts (such as the im-plausibly high values of TcPO2 mentioned above).The human text shown in Figure 3 explicitly men-tions these, for example (italics added)At 13:50 the baby is examined.
Thereis a desaturation to 72% and the FiO2 ischanged to 50%.
Between now and 14.10there are several attempts to site a periph-eral cannula.
The pO2 and pCO2 bothhave spikes in the traces, pO2 reaching19.2 and pCO2 reaching 0.4.
There areseveral episodes of artefact in the oxygensaturation trace.The BT-45 text shown in Figure 4, in contrast, onlymentions one spike in TcPO2, and does not mentionany artefacts.This is a difficult problem to solve, because ina context where medical intervention was needed,BT-45 would be correct to ignore the sensor prob-lems.
One solution would be for BT-45 to performa top-level diagnosis itself, and adjust its texts basedon whether it believed staff should focus on medi-cal intervention or adjusting sensors.
Whether thisis desirable or even feasible is unclear; it relates tothe more general issue of how a data-summarisationsystem such as BT-45 should be integrated withthe kind of diagnosis systems developed by theAI/Medicine community.5.2.2 Poor description of related channelsBT-45 essentially describes each channel inde-pendently.
For temperature, however, it is often bet-ter to describe the two temperature channels togetherand even contrast them, which is what the humantexts do; this contributes to BT-45?s poor perfor-mance in Manage Temperature scenarios.For example, in one of the Manage Temperaturescenarios, the BT-45 text saysCore Temperature (T1) = 36.4.
PeripheralTemperature (T2) = 34.0. .
.
.
(new paragraph)Over the next 44 minutesT2 decreased to 33.4.The human text saysHe is warm centrally but T2 drifts downover the 45 minutes from 34 to 33.3C.The information content of the two texts is quitesimilar, but the human text describes temperaturein an integrated fashion.
Similar problems occur inother scenarios.
In fact, over the 24 scenarios asa whole, the human texts include only three para-graphs which mention just one of the temperatures(T1 or T2, but not both), while the BT-45 texts in-clude 18 such paragraphs.BT-45?s document planner is mostly driven bymedical importance and causal relationships; al-though it does try to group together informationabout related channels, this is done as a secondaryoptimisation, not as a primary organising principle.The human texts place a much higher priority on152grouping ?physiological systems?
(to use NICU ter-minology) of related channels and events together,including the respiratory and cardiac systems as wellas the temperature system.
We suspect that BT-45should place more emphasis on systems in its docu-ment planning.5.2.3 Poor long-term overviewBT-45 does not do a good job of summarising achannel?s behaviour over the entire scenario.
Thisisn?t a problem in eventful scenarios, where the keyis to describe the events; but it does reduce the effec-tiveness of texts in uneventful scenarios where themain target action is No Action (i.e., do nothing).This problem can be seen in the text extractsshown in the previous section.
Even at the level ofindividual channels, He is warm centrally is a betteroverview than Core Temperature (T1) = 36.4; andT2 drifts down over the 45 minutes from 34 to 33.3Cis better than Peripheral Temperature (T2) = 34.0.. .
.
Over the next 44 minutes T2 decreased to 33.4.At a signal analysis level, BT-45 also does notdo a good job of detecting patterns (such as spikes)with a duration of minutes instead of seconds.
Thiscontributes to the system?s poor performance inManage Temperature scenarios, because tempera-ture changes relatively slowly.We believe these problems can be solved, byputting more emphasis on analysis and reporting oflong time-scale events in the BT-45 modules.5.3 Other ProblemsWe manually examined the texts, looking for caseswhere the BT-45 texts did not seem clear.
This high-lighted a number of additional issues.5.3.1 Describing events at different temporaltime-scalesBT-45 does not always do a good job of correctlyidentifying long-term trends in a context where thereare also short-term patterns such as spikes.
In factaccurately detecting simultaneous events at differenttime-scales is one of the major signal analysis chal-lenges in BT-45.
There are linguistic issues as wellas signal analysis ones; for example, should long-duration and short-duration events be described inseparate paragraphs?5.3.2 Poor communication of timeBT-45 texts often did not communicate time well.This is for a number of reasons, of which themost fundamental is problems describing the timeof long-duration events.
For instance, in our ex-ample scenario, the sequence of insert/remove lineevents in Figure 2 is analysed by the data-abstractionmodule as the abstract event LINE-INSERTION-PROCESS-FAILED, with a start time of 13.53 (firstinsertion event) and an end time of 14.09 (last re-moval event).
BT-45 expresses this as There were 3failed attempts to insert a peripheral venous line at13:53; the time given is the time the abstract eventstarted, which is reasonable in this case.
Now, if thefinal insertion attempt at 14.08 had been successful,the BT-45 data abstraction module would have in-stead produced the abstract event LINE-INSERTION-PROCESS-SUCCEEDED, with similar times, and BT-45 would have produced the textAfter three attempts, at 13.53 a peripheralvenous line was inserted successfully.In other words, the time given would still be the timethat the abstract event started; but this is mislead-ing, because readers of the above text expect thatthe stated time is the time of the successful inser-tion (14.08), not the time at which the sequence ofinsert/remove events started.We need a much better model of how to communi-cate time, and how this communication depends onthe semantics and linguistic expression of the eventsbeing described.
An obvious first step, which we arecurrently working on, is to include a linguistically-motivated temporal ontology (Moens and Steedman,1988), which will be separate from the existing do-main ontology.
We also need better techniques forcommunicating the temporal relationships betweenevents in cases where they are not listed in chrono-logical order (Oberlander and Lascarides, 1992).6 DiscussionTwo discourse analysts from Edinburgh University,Dr.
Andy McKinlay and Dr Chris McVittie, kindlyexamined and compared some of the human and BT-45 texts.
Their top-level comment was that the hu-man texts had much better narrative structures thanthe BT-45 texts.
They use the term ?narrative?
in153the sense of Labov (1972, Chapter 9); that is story-like structures which describe real experiences, andwhich go beyond just describing the events and in-clude information that helps listeners make sense ofwhat happened, such as abstracts, evaluatives, cor-relatives, and explicatives.Dr McKinlay and Dr. McVittie pointed out manyof the problems mentioned above, but they alsopointed out a number of other narrative deficienciesin the BT-45 texts.
The most fundamental was thatthe human texts did a much better job of linking re-lated events into a coherent whole.
Other deficien-cies include the lack of any kind of conclusion in theBT-45 texts.We agree with this analysis; it is striking thatmany of the specific problems identified are relatedto the problem of generating narratives.
Continu-ity, description of related channels, overview of be-haviour over time, and communication of time areall aspects of narrative in the broad sense; they arethings we need to get right in order to turn a textinto a story.
This point is especially significant inlight of the fact that many of our medical collabora-tors at Edinburgh have informally told us that theybelieve stories are valuable when presenting infor-mation about the babies, and indeed that a majorproblem with data visualisation systems comparedto written notes (which they used many years ago) isthat the visualisation systems do not tell stories.Unfortunately, we are not aware of any previ-ous research in the NLG community about these is-sues.
Researchers in the creativity community havelooked at issues such as plot and character develop-ment in systems that generate fictional stories (Perezy Perez and Sharples, 2004); but this is not relevantto our problem, which is presenting non-fictionalevents as a narrative.
Callaway and Lester (2002)looked at microplanning issues in narrative genera-tion, including reference, lexical variation, and ag-gregation; but none of these were identified in ourevaluation as major problems in text quality.7 Future WorkThe BABYTALK project continues until August2010, and during this period we hope to investigatemost of the issues identified above, especially theones related to narrative.
We are currently conduct-ing experiments to improve the way we communi-cate time, and we have started redoing the docu-ment planner to do a better job of describing sys-tems of related channels in a unified manner.
Weare also investigating top-down data abstraction anddocument planning approaches which we hope willaddress continuity problems, and which may assistin better overviews and narrative structures.
We arealso working on many issues not directly related tonarrative, such as reasoning about and communicat-ing uncertainty, use of vague language, generationof texts for non-specialists (e.g., parents), and HCIissues.We would welcome interest by other researchersin these topics (there is more that needs investigat-ing than we can do on our own!
), and we would behappy to assist such people, for example by sharingsome of our code and data resources.8 ConclusionWe believe that there is enormous potential in sys-tems such as BABYTALK which generate textualsummaries of data; the world desperately needs bet-ter techniques to help people understand data sets,and our experiments suggest that good textual sum-maries really can help communicate data sets, atleast in some contexts.
However, building gooddata summarisation systems requires the NLG re-search community to address a number of problemswhich it has not traditionally focused on, many ofwhich have to do with generating good narratives.We intend to focus much of our energy on theseissues, and would welcome research contributionsfrom other members of the community.AcknowledgementsMany thanks to our colleagues in the BabyTalkproject, and to the doctors and nurses who partic-ipated in the evaluation; this work would not havebeen possible without them.
Special thanks to DrMcKinlay and Dr McVittie for agreeing to anal-yse the texts for us.
We are also grateful to ourcolleagues in the Aberdeen NLG group, and to theanonymous reviewers, for their helpful comments.This research was funded by the UK Engineer-ing and Physical Sciences Research Council, undergrant EP/D049520/1.154ReferencesA Belz and E Reiter.
2006.
Comparing automatic andhuman evaluation of NLG systems.
In Proceedings ofEACL-2006, pages 313?320.C Callaway and J Lester.
2002.
Narrative prose genera-tion.
Artificial Intelligence, 139:213?252.G Carenini and J Moore.
2006.
Generating and eval-uating evaluative arguments.
Artificial Intelligence,170:925?952.P Carpenter and P Shah.
1998.
A model of the percep-tual and conceptual processes in graph comprehension.Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, 4:74?100.L Ferres, A Parush, S Roberts, and G Lindgaard.
2006.Helping people with visual impairments gain access tographical information through natural language: TheiGraph system.
In Proceedings of ICCHP-2008.E Goldberg, N Driedger, and R Kittredge.
1994.
Usingnatural-language processing to produce weather fore-casts.
IEEE Expert, 9(2):45?53.W Labov.
1972.
Language in the Inner City.
Universityof Pennsylvania Press.A Law, Y Freer, J Hunter, R Logie, N McIntosh, andJ Quinn.
2005.
A comparison of graphical and textualpresentations of time series data to support medical de-cision making in the neonatal intensive care unit.
Jour-nal of Clinical Monitoring and Computing, 19:183?194.M Moens and M Steedman.
1988.
Temporal ontologyand temporal reference.
Computational Linguistics,14(2):15?28.J Oberlander and A Lascarides.
1992.
Preventing falsetemporal implicatures: Interactive defaults for textgeneration.
In Proceedings of COLING-1992, pages721?727.R Passonneau.
2006.
Measuring agreement on set-valued items (MASI) for semantic and pragmatic an-notation.
In Proceedings of LREC-2006.R Perez y Perez and M Sharples.
2004.
Three computer-based models of storytelling: Brutus, Minstrel, andMexica.
Knowledge-Based Systems, 17:15?29.F Portet, E Reiter, J Hunter, and S Sripada.
2007.
Auto-matic generation of textual summaries from neonatalintensive care data.
In Proceedings of AIME 2007.R Power, D Scott, and N Bouayad-Agha.
2003.
Doc-ument structure.
Computational Linguistics, 29:211?260.E Reiter, S Sripada, J Hunter, J Yu, and I Davy.
2005.Choosing words in computer-generated weather fore-casts.
Artificial Intelligence, 167:137?169.E Reiter.
2007.
An architecture for Data-to-Text sys-tems.
In Proceedings of ENLG-07, pages 97?104.S Sripada, E Reiter, and L Hawizy.
2005.
Evaluation ofan NLG system using post-edit data: Lessons learned.In Proceedings of ENLG-2005, pages 133?139.R Turner, S Sripada, E Reiter, and I Davy.
2008.
Usingspatial reference frames to generate grounded textualsummaries of georeferenced data.
In Proceedings ofINLG-2008.M van der Meulen, R Logie, Y Freer, C Sykes, N McIn-tosh, and J Hunter.
submitted.
When a graph is poorerthan 100 words: A comparison of computerised natu-ral language generation, human generated descriptionsand graphical displays in neonatal intensive care.J Yu, E Reiter, J Hunter, and C Mellish.
2007.
Choosingthe content of textual summaries of large time-seriesdata sets.
Natural Language Engineering, 13:25?49.155
