Coling 2008: Proceedings of 3rd Textgraphs workshop on Graph-Based Algorithms in Natural Language Processing, pages 1?8Manchester, August 2008Acquistion of the morphological structure of the lexiconbased on lexical similarity and formal analogyNabil HathoutUniversit?
de ToulouseNabil.Hathout@univ-tlse2.frAbstractThe paper presents a computational modelaiming at making the morphological struc-ture of the lexicon emerge from the for-mal and semantic regularities of the wordsit contains.
The model is purely lexeme-based.
The proposed morphological struc-ture consists of (1) binary relations thatconnect each headword with words thatare morphologically related, and especiallywith the members of its morphologicalfamily and its derivational series, and of(2) the analogies that hold between thewords.
The model has been tested on thelexicon of French using the TLFi machinereadable dictionary.1 Lexeme-based morphologyMorphology is traditionally considered to be thefield of linguistics that studies the structure ofwords.
In this conception, words are made ofmorphemes which combine according to rulesof inflexion, derivation and composition.
If themorpheme-based theoretical framework is both el-egant and easy to implement, it suffers many draw-backs pointed out by several authors (Anderson,1992; Aronoff, 1994).
The alternative theoreti-cal models that have been proposed falls withinlexeme-based or word-based morphology in whichthe minimal units are words instead of morphemes.Words then do not have any structure at all andmorphology becomes a level of organization of thelexicon based on the sharing of semantic and for-mal properties.c?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.The morpheme-based / lexeme-based distinc-tion shows up on the computational level.
Inthe morpheme-based conception, the morpholog-ical analysis of a word aims at segmenting it intoa sequence of morphemes (D?jean, 1998; Gold-smith, 2001; Creutz and Lagus, 2002; Bernhard,2006).
In a lexeme-based approach, it is to dis-cover the relations between the word and the otherlexical items.
These relations serve to identifythe morphological family of the word, its deriva-tional series, and the analogies in which it is in-volved.
For instance, the analysis of the Frenchword d?rivation may be considered as satisfac-tory if it connects d?rivation with enough mem-bers of its family (d?river ?derivate?, d?rivationnel?derivational?, d?rivable, d?rive ?drift?, d?riveur?sailing dinghy?, etc.)
and of its derivationalseries (formation ?education?, s?duction, varia-tion, ?mission, etc.).
Each of these relationsis integrated into a large collection of analogiesthat characterizes it semantically and formally.For instance, the relation between d?rivation andd?rivable is part of a series of analogies whichincludes d?rivation:d?rivable::variation:variable,d?rivation:d?rivable::modification:modifiable, etc.Similarly, d?rivation and variation participates ina series of analogies such as d?rivation:varia-tion::d?river:varier, d?rivation:variation::d?riva-tionnel:variationnel, d?rivation:variation::d?riva-ble:variable.2 Computational modelingThe paper describes a computational model aimingat making the morphological derivational structureof the lexicon emerge from the semantic and theformal regularities of the words it contains.
A firstexperiment is currently underway on the lexiconof French using the TLFi machine readable dictio-1nary.1The main novelty of the paper is the com-bination of lexical proximity with formal analogy.We first use lexical similarity in order to select aset of words that are likely to be morphologicallyrelated to each other.
Then, these candidates arechecked by means of analogy.The two techniques are complementary.
Thefirst one brings closer the words that are morpho-logically close and especially the ones that aremembers of the same morphological families andthe same derivational series.
It is able to deal withlarge number of words, but it is too coarse-grainedto discriminate the words that are actually mor-phological related from the ones that are not.
Thesecond technique, formal analogy, is then used toperform a fine-grained filtering.
Technically, ourmodel joins:1. the representation of the lexicon as a graphand its exploration through random walks,along the line of (Gaume et al, 2002; Gaumeet al, 2005; Muller et al, 2006), and2.
formal analogies on words (Lepage, 1998;Stroppa and Yvon, 2005).
This approach doesdo not make use of morphemes.
Correspon-dence between words is calculated directly ontheir graphemic representations.More generally, our approach is original in that:1.
Our computational model is pure lexeme-based.
The discovery of morphological rela-tions between words do not involve the no-tions of morpheme, affix, morphological ex-ponent, etc.
nor any representation of theseconcepts.2.
The membership to the families and series isgradient.
It accounts, for instance, for the factthat d?riveur is morphologically and semanti-cally closer to d?rive than to d?rivationnelle-ment, even if the three words belong to thesame family.
The model connects the wordsthat share semantic and / or formal features.The more features are shared, the closer thewords are.Besides, the model integrates semantic and for-mal informations in a uniform manner.
All kindof semantic informations (lexicographic defini-tions, synonyms, synsets, etc.)
and formal ones1Tr?sor de la Langue Fran?aise (http://atilf.atilf.fr/).
(graphemic, phonological, etc.)
can be used.
Theycan be cumulated easily in spite of the differencesin nature and origin.
The model takes advantage ofthe redundancy of the features and is fairly insen-sitive to variation and exceptions.3 Related workMany works in the field of computational mor-phology aim at the discovery of relations be-tween lexical units.
All of them rely primarily onfinding similarities between the word graphemicforms.
These relations are mainly prefixal or suf-fixal with two exceptions, (Yarowsky and Wicen-towski, 2000) and (Baroni et al, 2002), who usestring edit distances to estimate formal similarity.As far as we know, all the other perform some sortof segmentation even when the goal is not to findmorphemes as in (Neuvel and Fulop, 2002).
Ourmodel differs from these approaches in that thegraphemic similarities are determined solely on thebasis of the sharing of graphemic features.
It is themain contribution of this paper.Our model is also related to approaches thatcombine graphemic and semantic cues in orderto identify morphemes or morphological relationsbetween words.
Usually, these semantic infor-mations are automatically acquired from corporaby means of various techniques as latent semanticanalysis (Schone and Jurafsky, 2000), mutual in-formation (Baroni et al, 2002) or co-occurrence inan n-word window (Xu and Croft, 1998; Zweigen-baum and Grabar, 2003).
In the experiment wepresent here, semantic informations are extractedfrom a machine readable dictionary and semanticsimilarity is calculated through random walks in alexical graph.
Our approach can also be comparedwith (Hathout, 2002) where morphological knowl-edge is acquired by using semantic informationsextracted from dictionaries of synonyms or fromWordNet.4 Lexeme DescriptionIn our model, the lexical units and their propertiesare represented in a bipartite graph with the ver-tices representing the lexemes in one sub-set andthe vertices representing the formal and semanticfeatures in the other.
Lexeme vertices are identi-fied by the lemma and the grammatical category.In the experiment reported in the paper, the for-mal properties are the n-grams of letters that occurin the lexemes lemma.
Figure 1 shows a sub-set of2$or; $ori; $orie; ...$orientation; ori; orie; ...orientation; orientation$; ...tio; tion; tion$; ion; ion$; on$Figure 1: Excerpt of the formal features associatedwith the noun orientation.N.action; N.action X.de; N.actionX.de V.orienter; X.de; X.deV.orienter; V.orienter; X.deV.s?orienter; V.s?orienter;N.r?sultat; N.r?sultat X.de;N.r?sultat X.de X.ce; N.r?sultatX.de X.ce N.action; X.de X.ce;X.de X.ce N.action; X.ce; X.ceN.action; N.actionFigure 2: Semantic features induced by the defi-nition ?Action d?orienter, de s?orienter ; r?sultat decette action.?
of the noun orientationthe formal features associated with the word orien-tation.
The beginning and the end of the lemma aremarked by the character $.
We impose a minimumsize on the n-grams (n ?
3).The model is pure lexeme-based because thisdecomposition does not confer a special status toany of the individual n-grams which character-ize the lexemes.
All n-grams play the same roleand therefore no one has the status of morpheme.These features are only used to bring closer thewords that share the same sounds.The semantic properties we have used are ex-tracted from the TLFi definitions.
Each headwordis provided with the n-grams of words that occurin its definitions.
The n-grams that contain punc-tuation marks are eliminated.
In other words, weonly use n-grams of words that occur between twopunctuation marks.
For instance, the semantic fea-tures induced by the definition Action d?orienter,de s?orienter ; r?sultat de cette action.
(?act of ori-enting, of finding one?s way; result of this action?
)of the noun orientation are presented in figure 2.The words in the definitions are POS tagged andlemmatized.
The tags are A for adjectives, N fornouns, R for adverbs, V for verbs and X for allother categories.This is a very coarse semantic representation in-spired from the repeated segments (Lebart et al,1998).
It offers three advantages: (1) being heav-ily redundant, it can capture various levels of sim-$or$orioriententatiN.action X.deN.r?sultat X.de X.ceN.orientationV.orienterA.originalN.fermentationN.pointageFigure 3: Excerpt of the bipartite graph which rep-resents the lexicon.
Words are displayed in ovals,semantic feature in rectangles and formal featuresin octagons.
The graph is symmetric.ilarity between the definitions; (2) it integrates in-formations of a syntagmatic nature without a deepsyntactic analysis of the definitions; (3) it slightlyreduces the strong variations in the lexicographi-cal treatment of the headwords, especially in thedivision into sub-senses and in the definitions.The bipartite graph is built up by symmetricallyconnecting each headword to its semantic and for-mal features.
For instance, the noun orientationis connected with the formal feature $or, $ori,$orie, $orien, etc.
which are in turn connectedwith the words orienter, orientable, orientement?orientation?, orienteur ?orientor?, etc.
Likewise,orientation is connected with the semantic fea-tures N.action X.de, N.r?sultat X.deX.ce N.action, etc.
which are themselvesconnected with the nouns orientement, harmoni-sation ?synchronization?, pointage ?checking?, etc.The general schema is illustrated in figure 4.
Thisrepresentation corresponds precisely to the Net-work Model of Bybee (1995).We use a bipartite graph mainly for two reasons:(1) We can spread an activation synchronously intothe formal and the semantic sub-graphs.
(2) It con-tains representations of the formal and the seman-tic properties of the lexemes which, for instance,could be used in order to describe the semantics ofthe -able suffixation or the characteristic endingsof the boat names (-ier, -eur, etc.).
However, thebipartite structure is not essential and we only need3to be able to compute morphological distances be-tween words.5 Random walksThe computational side of the method is based onthe estimation of the proximity between words rep-resented in a lexical graph (Gaume et al, 2002;Gaume et al, 2005; Muller et al, 2006).
Thegraphs used in this approach are slightly differentfrom the ones presented above.
All their verticesrepresent words and the edges describe semanticrelations such as synonymy.
The proximity is com-puted by simulating the spreading into the graph ofan activation initiated at a vertice.
Following thespreading, the nodes which are most excited areregarded as being the closest to the initial vertice.The same method can be used to estimate themorphological proximity between words that aredescribed in a bipartite graph like the one we pro-pose (see figure 4).
It then connects words thathave the same semantic and formal features.
Onehas just to propagate the activation into the bipar-tite graph for an even number of times.
When thegraph is heavily redundant, two steps of propaga-tion are sufficient to obtain the intended proximityestimations.In the example in figure 4, the morphologicalneighbors of the noun orientation are identified byactivating the vertice which represents it.
In thefirst step, the activation is spread toward the ver-tices which represent its formal and semantic fea-tures.
In the second step, the activation located onthe feature vertices is spread toward the headwordvertices.
For instance, orienter becomes activatedvia the formal features $or, $ori, orien andfermentation through the formal feature entatiand the semantic feature N.r?sultat X.deX.ce.
The greater the number of features sharedby a headword with orientation, the stronger theactivation it receives.The spreading of activation is simulated as a ran-dom walk in the lexical graph, classically com-puted as a multiplication of the stochastic adja-cency matrix.
More precisely, let G = (V,E,w)be a weighted graph consisting of a set of ver-tices V = {v1, .
.
.
, vn}, a set of edges E ?
V2and of a weight function w : E ?
R. Let Abe the adjacency matrix of G, that is a n ?
nmatrix such that Aij= 0 if (vi, vj) 6?
E andAij= w(vi, vj) if (vi, vj) ?
E. (In the experi-ment, w(e) = 1,?e ?
E.) We normalize the rowsof A in order to get a stochastic matrix M .
Mnijisthe probability of reaching node vjfrom the nodevithrough a walk of n steps.
This probability canalso be regarded as an activation level of node vjfollowing an n-step spreading initiated at verticevi.In the experiment presented in this paper, the ac-tivation is spread for one half toward the seman-tic feature and for the other toward the formal fea-tures.
The edges of the bipartite graph can be di-vided in three parts E = J ?K ?
L where J con-tains the edges that connect a headword to a for-mal feature, K the edges that connect a headwordto a semantic feature and L the edges that connecta formal or semantic feature to a headword.
Thevalues of M are defined as follows:?
if eij= (vi, vj) ?
J , Mij=Aij2Peih?JAihifviis connected to a semantic feature andMij=AijPeik?JAikotherwise.?
if eik= (vi, vk) ?
K, Mik=Aik2Peih?KAihifviis connected to a formal feature andMik=AikPeih?KAihotherwise.?
if eil= (vi, vl) ?
L, Mil=AilPeih?LAih.6 Lexical neighborhoodThe graph used in the experiment has been builtfrom the definitions of the TLFi.
We only removedthe definitions of non standard uses (old, slang,etc.).
The extraction and cleaning-up of the defi-nitions have been carried out in collaboration withBruno Gaume and Philippe Muller.
The bipartitegraph has been created from 225 529 definitionsdescribing 75 024 headwords (lexemes).
We thenremoved all the features associated only with oneheadword.
This reduces the size of the graph sig-nificantly without changing the connections thathold between the headwords.
Table 1 shows thatthis reduction is stronger for the semantic feature(93%) than it is for the formal ones (69%).
Indeed,semantic descriptions show greater variability thanformal ones.The use of the graph is illustrated in figure 4.
Itshows the 20 nearest neighbors of the verb fruc-tifier for various propagation configurations.
Theexamples in (a) and (b) show clearly that formalfeatures are the more predictive ones while seman-tic features are the less reliable ones.
The examplein (c) illustrates the contribution of the semantic4(a) V.fructifier N.fructification A.fructificateur A.fructifiant A.fructif?re V.sanctifier V.rectifierA.rectifier V.fructidoriser N.fructidorien N.fructidor N.fructuosit?
R.fructueusement A.fructueuxN.rectifieur A.obstructif A.instructif A.destructif A.constructif N.infructuosit?
(b) V.fructifier V.trouver N.missionnaire N.mission A.missionnaire N.saisie N.police N.hangar N.d?meN.ban V.affruiter N.melon N.saisonnement N.az?darach A.fruitier A.bif?re V.saisonner N.romanN.troubadour V.contaminer(c) V.fructifier A.fructifiant N.fructification A.fructificateur V.trouver A.fructif?re V.rectifierV.sanctifier A.rectifier V.fructidoriser N.fructidor N.fructidorien N.missionnaire N.missionA.missionnaire A.fructueux R.fructueusement N.fructuosit?
N.rectifieur N.saisieFigure 4: The 20 nearest neighbors of the verb fructifier when the activation is spread (a) only towardthe formal features, (b) only toward the semantic ones, (c) toward both the semantic and formal features.Words that do not belong to the family or series of fructifier are emphasized.graph complete reducedformal features 1 306 497 400 915semantic features 7 650 490 548 641Table 1: Number of the semantic and formal fea-tures coming from TLFi.features.
They reorder the formal neighbors andintroduce among them the nearest semantic neigh-bors.
We see in the lists in (a) and (c) that the fam-ily members are the nearest neighbors and that themembers of the series come next.7 AnalogyThe members of the series and families are mas-sively involved in the analogies which structure thelexicon.
A word x belonging to a family Fxpartic-ipates in several analogies with a large number ofother members of Fx.
The analogies that involvetwo words (x, y) ?
F2include two other words(z, t) that belong to one same family F?.
On theother hand, if x is a complex word that belongsto a series Sx, then z ?
Sx, x ?
Sz, y ?
Stand t ?
Sy.
For instance, the couple of wordsfructifier and fructification form analogies with ofmembers of other families (rectifier, rectification),(certifier, certification), (plastifier, plastification),etc.
Moreover, the first elements of these couplesbelong to series of fructifier and the second ones tothe series of fructification.In a dual manner, a word u belonging to a se-ries S participates in a set of analogies with a largenumber of other members of S. The analogies thatinvolve two elements of the same series are madeup with words which themselves belong to a sameseries.
For instance, fructifier and sanctifier formanalogies with the members of other series (fruc-tificateur, sanctificateur), (fructification, sanctifi-cation) or (fructifiant, sanctifiant).
These couplesare respectively made of members of the familiesof fructifier and sanctifier.7.1 Analogies and neighborhoodsThe analogies that involve members of familiesand series can be used to efficiently filter themorphological neighbors that are identified by themethod presented above.
If v is a correct morpho-logical neighbor of w, then it is either a member ofthe family of m or a member of its series.
There-fore, it exists another neighbor v?of w (v?belongto the family of w if v belongs to the series of wor vice versa) such that it exists a neighbor w?of vand of v?such that w : v :: v?
: w?.2Therefore, wehave two configurations:1. if v ?
Fw, then ?v??
Sw, ?w??
Sv?Fv?, w :v :: v?
: w?2.
if v ?
Sw, then ?v??
Fw, ?w??
Fv?Sv?, w :v :: v?
: w?The first case is illustrated by the above exampleswith w = fructifier and v = fructification, and thesecond one with w = fructifier et v = rectifier.7.2 Formal analogyA formal or graphemic analogy is a relationa : b :: c : d that holds between four stringssuch that the graphemic differences between a2The notation a : b :: c : d is used as a shorthand for thestatement that (a, b, c, d) forms an analogical quadruplet, orin other words that a is to b as c is to d.5and b are the same as the ones between c and d.It can be exemplified with the four Arabic wordskataba:maktoubon::fa3ala:maf3oulonwhich respectively are transcriptions of the verb?write?, the noun ?document?, the verb ?do?
andthe noun ?effect.
?3The differences between thefirst two words and between the two last ones canbe described as in figure 5.
They are identical forthe two couples of words. k a t a b ama k  t ou b on f a 3 a l ama f  3 ou l onFigure 5: Formal analogy kataba:maktoubon::fa3ala:maf3oulon.
Thedifferences are locates in frame boxes.More generally, formal analogies can bedefined in terms of factorization (Stroppa andYvon, 2005).
Let L be an alphabet and a ?
L?a string over L. A factorization of a is a se-quence f = (f1, ?
?
?
, fn) ?
L?nsuch thata = f1?
?
?
?
?
fnwhere ?
denotes the concate-nation.
For instance, (ma, k, , t, ou, b, on)is a factorization of length 7 of maktoubon.Morphological analogies can be defined asfollows.
Let (a, b, c, d) ?
L?4be for strings.a : b :: c : d is a formal analogy iff there existsn ?
N and four factorizations of length n of thefour strings (f(a), f(b), f(c), f(d)) ?
L?4such that, ?i ?
[1, n], (fi(b), fi(c)) ?
{(fi(a), fi(d)), (fi(d), fi(a))}.
For the analogykataba:maktoubon::fa3ala:maf3oulon,the property holds for n = 7 (see figure 5).7.3 ImplementationA formal analogy a : b :: c : d can be easilychecked by comparing the sequences of stringedit operations between (a, b) and between (c, d).Both sequences must minimize Levenshtein editdistance (i.e.
have a minimal cost).
Each sequencecorresponds to a path in the edit lattices of thecouple of words.
The lattice are represented bya matrix computed using the standard string editalgorithm (Jurafsky and Martin, 2000).
The pathwhich describes the sequence of string edit opera-tions starts at the last cell of the matrix and climbs3This example is adapted from examples in (Lepage,1998; Lepage, 2003).to the first one.
Only three directions are allowed:upward (deletion), to the left (insertion) or inthe upper left diagonal direction (substitution).Figure 6 shows the sequence of edit operations forthe couple fructueux:infructueusement.Sequences of edit operations can be simplifiedby merging the series of identical charactermatchings.
The sequence in figure 6 then becomes((I,,i), (I,,n), (M,fructueu,fructueu),(S,x,s), (I,,e), (I,,m), (I,,e), (I,,n), (I,,t)).This simplified sequence is identical to the onefor the couple soucieux:insoucieusementexcept for the matching operation: ((I,,i),(I,,n), (M,soucieu,soucieu), (S,x,s), (I,,e),(I,,m), (I,,e), (I,,n), (I,,t)).
The two se-quences can be made identical if the matchingsub-strings are not specified.
The resultingsequence can then be assigned to both cou-ples as their edit signatures (?).
The formalanalogy fructueux:infructueusement::soucieux:insoucieusement can be statedin terms of identity the edit signatures:?
(fructueux,infructueusement) =?
(soucieux,insoucieusement) =((I,,i), (I,,n), (M,@,@), (S,x,s), (I,,e),(I,,m), (I,,e), (I,,n), (I,,t))More generally, four strings (a, b, c, d) ?
L?4forma formal analogy a : b :: c : d iff ?
(a, b) = ?
(c, d)or ?
(a, c) = ?
(b, d).7.4 First resultsThe computational model we have just presentedhas been implemented and a first experiment hasbeen carried out.
It consists in determining the100 closest neighbors of every headword for thethree configurations presented in ?
6.
All the for-mal analogies that hold between these words havethen been collected.
We have not been able to do astandard evaluation in terms of recall and precisionbecause of the lack of morphological resources forFrench.
However, we have manually checked theanalogies of 22 headwords belonging to 4 morpho-logical families.
An analogy a : b :: c : d is ac-cepted as correct if:?
b belongs to the family of a, c belongs to theseries of a, d belongs to series of b and to thefamily of c, or?
b belongs to the series of a, c belongs to thefamily of a, d belongs to family of b and tothe series of c.6I I M M M M M M M M S I I I I I  f r u c t u e u x     i n f r u c t u e u s e m e n tFigure 6: Sequence of edit operations that transform fructueux into infructueusement.
Thetype of each operation is indicated on the first line: D for deletion, I for insertion, M for matching and Sfor a substitution by a different character.configuration analogies correct errorsformal 169 163 3.6%semantics 5 5 0.0%sem + form 130 128 1.5%Table 2: Number of the analogies collected for asample of 22 headwords and error rate.The results are summarized in table 2.
Their qual-ity is quite satisfactory.
However, the number ofanalogies strongly depends on the configuration ofpropagation.
The best trade-off is a simultaneouspropagation toward the semantic and formal fea-tures.
Here are some of the correct and erroneousanalogies collected:?
R.fructueusement:R.affectueusement::A.infructueux:A.inaffectueux?
N.fructification:N.identification::V.fructifier:V.identifier?
N.fruiterie:N.fruitier::N.laiterie:N.laitier?
* N.fruit:N.bruit::V.frusquer:V.brusquerThe first example is particularly interesting be-cause it involves on one side suffixed words andon the other prefixed ones.The performance of the method strongly de-pends on the length of the headwords.
Table 3presents the number of analogies and the error ratefor 13 groups of 5 words.
The words of each groupare of the same length.
Lengths range from 4 to 16letters.8 ConclusionWe have presented a computational model thatmakes the morphological structure of the lexiconemerge from the formal and semantic regularitiesof the words it contains.
The model is radicallylexeme-based.
It integrates the semantic and for-mal properties of the words in a uniform mannerand represents them into a bipartite graph.
Ran-dom walks are used to simulate the spreading oflength analogies correct errors4 29 15 51.7%5 22 8 36.4%6 8 1 12.5%7 10 2 20.0%8 55 1 1.8%9 29 2 6.9%10 30 0 0.0%11 32 0 0.0%12 19 0 0.0%13 11 0 0.0%14 35 0 0.0%15 63 0 0.0%16 39 0 0.0%Table 3: Number of the analogies and error rate forheadwords of length 4 to 16.activations in this lexical network.
The level ofactivation obtained after the propagation indicatesthe lexical relatedness of the words.
The membersof the morphological family and the derivationalseries of each word are then identified among itslexical neighbors by means of formal analogies.This is work in progress and we still have to sep-arate the members of the families from the mem-bers of the series.
We also intend to conduct asimilar experiment on the English lexicon and toevaluate our results in a more classical manner byusing the CELEX database (Baayen et al, 1995)as gold standard.
The evaluation should also bedone with respect to well known systems like Lin-guistica (Goldsmith, 2001) or the morphologicalanalyzer of Bernhard (2006).AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank the ATILF laboratory andJean-Marie Pierrel for making available to me theTLFi.
I am in debt to Bruno Gaume and PhilippeMuller for the many discussions and exchanges wehave had on the cleaning-up of the TFLi and its ex-ploitation through random walks.
I am also grate-ful to Gilles Boy?, Olivier Haute-C?ur and Lu-7dovic Tanguy for their comments and suggestions.All errors are mine.ReferencesAnderson, Stephen R. 1992.
A-Morphous Morphol-ogy.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.Aronoff, Mark.
1994.
Morphology by Itself.
Stem andInflexional Classes.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Baayen, R. Harald, Richard Piepenbrock, and Leon Gu-likers.
1995.
The CELEX lexical database (release2).
CD-ROM.
Linguistic Data Consortium, Univer-sity of Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania, USA.Baroni, Marco, Johannes Matiasek, and Harald Trost.2002.
Unsupervised discovery of morphologicallyrelated words based on orthographic and semanticsimilarity.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Mor-phological and Phonological Learning of ACL-2002,pages 48?57, Philadelphia.
ACL.Bernhard, Delphine.
2006.
Automatic acquisition ofsemantic relationships from morphological related-ness.
In Advances in Natural Language Processing,Proceedings of the 5th International Conference onNLP, FinTAL 2006, volume 4139 of Lecture Notes inComputer Science, pages 121?13.
Springer.Bybee, Joan L. 1995.
Regular morphology and the lex-icon.
Language and cognitive processes, 10(5):425?455.Creutz, Mathias and Krista Lagus.
2002.
Unsuper-vised discovery of morphemes.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL Workshop on Morphological and Phono-logical Learning, pages 21?30, Philadelphia, Penn.ACL.D?jean, Herv?.
1998.
Morphemes as necessary con-cept for structures discovery from untagged corpora.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Paradigms andGrounding in Natural Language Learning, pages295?299, Adelaide, Australia.Gaume, Bruno, Karine Duvigneau, Olivier Gasquet,and Marie-Dominique Gineste.
2002.
Forms ofmeaning, meaning of forms.
Journal of Experimen-tal and Theoretical Artificial Intelligence, 14(1):61?74.Gaume, B., F. Venant, and B. Victorri.
2005.
Hierar-chy in lexical organization of natural language.
InPumain, D., editor, Hierarchy in natural and socialsciences, Methodos series, pages 121?143.
Kluwer.Goldsmith, John.
2001.
Unsupervised learning ofthe morphology of natural language.
ComputationalLinguistics, 27(2):153?198.Hathout, Nabil.
2002.
From wordnet to celex: acquir-ing morphological links from dictionaries of syn-onyms.
In Proceedings of the Third InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evalua-tion, pages 1478?1484, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria.ELRA.Jurafsky, Daniel and James H. Martin.
2000.
Speechand language processing.
Prentice-Hall.Lebart, Ludovic, Andr?
Salem, and Lisette Berry.1998.
Exploring textual data.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht.Lepage, Yves.
1998.
Solving analogies on words: analgorithm.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL?98, vol-ume 2, pages 728?735, Montr?al, Canada.Lepage, Yves.
2003.
De l?analogie rendant compte dela commutation en linguistique.
M?moire de HDR,Universit?
Joseph Fourier, Grenoble.Muller, Philippe, Nabil Hathout, and Bruno Gaume.2006.
Synonym extraction using a semantic dis-tance on a dictionary.
In Radev, Dragomir and RadaMihalcea, editors, Proceedings of the HLT/NAACLworkshop Textgraphs, pages 65?72, New York, NY.Association for Computational Linguistics.Neuvel, Sylvain and Sean A. Fulop.
2002.
Unsuper-vised learning of morphology without morphemes.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Morphologi-cal and Phonological Learning 2002, Philadelphia.ACL Publications.Schone, Patrick and Daniel S. Jurafsky.
2000.Knowledge-free induction of morphology using la-tent semantic analysis.
In Proceedings of the Confer-ence on Natural Language Learning 2000 (CoNLL-2000), pages 67?72, Lisbon, Portugal.Stroppa, Nicolas and Fran?ois Yvon.
2005.
An analog-ical learner for morphological analysis.
In Proceed-ings of the 9th Conference on Computational NaturalLanguage Learning (CoNLL-2005), pages 120?127,Ann Arbor, Michigan, June.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Xu, Jinxi and W. Bruce Croft.
1998.
Corpus-basedstemming using co-occurrence of word variants.ACM Transaction on Information Systems, 16(1):61?81.Yarowsky, David and Richard Wicentowski.
2000.Minimally supervised morphological analysis bymultimodal alignment.
In Proceedings of the As-sociation of Computational Linguistics (ACL-2000),pages 207?216, Hong Kong.Zweigenbaum, Pierre and Natalia Grabar.
2003.Learning derived words from medical corpora.
In9th Conference on Artificial Intelligence in MedicineEurope, pages 189?198, Cyprus.8
