Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Multi-source Multilingual Information Extraction and Summarization, pages 10?16Manchester, August 2008AbstractHall?
Norden is a web site with informationregarding mobility between the Nordic coun-tries in five different languages; Swedish,Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic and Finnish.We wanted to create a Nordic cross-languagedictionary for the use in a cross-languagesearch engine for Hall?
Norden.
The entireset of texts on the web site was treated as onemultilingual parallel corpus.
From this weextracted parallel corpora for each languagepair.
The corpora were very sparse, contain-ing on average less than 80 000 words perlanguage pair.
We have used the Uplug wordalignment system (Tiedemann 2003a), for thecreation of the dictionaries.
The results gaveon average 213 new dictionary words (fre-quency > 3) per language pair.
The averageerror rate was 16 percent.
Different combina-tions with Finnish had a higher error rate, 33percent, whereas the error rate for the re-maining language pairs only yielded on aver-age 9 percent errors.
The high error rate forFinnish is possibly due to the fact that theFinnish language belongs to a different lan-guage family.
Although the corpora werevery sparse the word alignment results for thecombinations of Swedish, Danish, Norwe-gian and Icelandic were surprisingly goodcompared to other experiments with largercorpora.?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.1 IntroductionHall?
Norden (Hello Scandinavia) is a web sitewith information regarding mobility between theNordic countries and is maintained by the NordicCouncil.
Mobility information concerns issuessuch as how employment services, social ser-vices, educational systems etc.
work in the dif-ferent countries.
The web site has information infive different languages; Swedish, Danish, Nor-wegian, Icelandic and Finnish.
In this paperNordic languages are defined as Swedish, Danish,Norwegian, Icelandic and Finnish.
Scandinavianlanguages are defined as the Nordic languagesexcluding Finnish.The texts on the web site were almost paralleland there were also ten minimal dictionaries withon average 165 words available for the differentlanguages.
The dictionaries consisted of domain-specific words regarding mobility information inthe Nordic countries.
The Nordic Council wantedto extend the dictionaries so they would cover alarger part of the specific vocabulary, in order tohelp the people in the Nordic countries to findand learn the concepts in their neighboring coun-tries.The entire set of texts on the web site wastreated as one multilingual parallel corpus.
Fromthis we extracted parallel corpora for each lan-guage pair.
We discovered, as expected, that thecorpora were very sparse, containing on averageless than 80 000 words per language pair.
Weneeded to construct 10 different dictionaries andtherefore we processed 10 pairs of parallel textsets.
We have used the Uplug word alignmentsystem (Tiedemann 2003a), for the creation ofthe dictionaries.
The system and motivation forthe choice of system is further discussed in Sec-tion 2.1.Automatic Construction of Domain-specific Dictionaries onSparse Parallel Corpora in the Nordic LanguagesSumithra VelupillaiDSV/KTH-Stockholm UniversitySE-164 40 KistaSwedensumithra@dsv.su.seHercules Dalianis 1, 21) DSV/KTH-Stockholm UniversitySE-164 40 KistaSweden2) Euroling ABIgeldammsgatan 22c112 49 Stockholm, Swedenhercules@dsv.su.se10We also discovered that the texts were notcompletely parallel.
Therefore, we made a smallexperiment on attempting to enhance the resultsby deleting texts that were not parallel.
Multilin-gual parallel corpora covering all Nordic lan-guages are very rare.
Although the corpora cre-ated in this work are domain-specific, they are animportant contribution for further research onNordic multilingual issues.
Moreover, manylarge governmental, industrial or similar websites that contain information in several lan-guages may profit from compiling multilingualdictionaries automatically in order to enhancetheir search engines and search results.In this project, our two main goals were tocompile parallel corpora covering the Nordiclanguages, and to evaluate the results of auto-matically creating dictionaries using an existingtool with basic settings, in order to find outwhere more work would need to be done andwhere performance is actually acceptable.
Wehave limited the work by only testing one system(Uplug) with basic settings.
Our experiments andresults are described in further detail in the fol-lowing sections.
Conclusions and future work arediscussed in the final section.2 Related WorkWord alignment systems have been used in pre-vious research projects for automatically creatingdictionaries.
In Charitakis (2007) Uplug wasused for aligning words in a Greek-English paral-lel corpus.
The corpus was relatively sparse, con-taining around 200 000 words for each language,downloaded from two different bilingual websites.
A sample of 498 word pairs from Uplugwere evaluated by expert evaluators and the re-sult was 51 percent correctly translated words(frequency > 3).
When studying high frequentword pairs (>11), there were 67 percent correctlytranslated words.
In Megyesi & Dahlqvist (2007)an experiment is described where they had 150000 words in Swedish and 126 000 words inTurkish that gave 69 percent correct translations(Uplug being one of the main tools used).
In thiswork the need for parallel corpora in differentlanguage combinations is also discussed.The ITools?
suite for word alignment that wasused in Nystr?m et al(2006) on a medical paral-lel corpus, containing 174 000 Swedish wordsand 153 000 English words, created 31 000 wordpairs with 76 percent precision and 77 percentrecall.
In this work the word alignment was pro-duced interactively.A shared task on languages with sparse re-sources is described in Martin et al(2005).
Thelanguage pairs processed were English-Inuktitut,Romanian-English and English-Hindi, where theEnglish-Inuktitut parallel corpus containedaround 4 million words for English and 2 mil-lions words for Inuktitut.
English-Hindi had lesswords, 60 000 words and 70 000 words respec-tively.
The languages with the largest corporaobtained best word alignment results, for Eng-lish-Inuktitut over 90 percent precision and recalland for English-Hindi 77 percent precision and68 percent recall.
One conclusion from theshared task was that it is worth using additionalresources for languages with very sparse corporaimproving results with up to 20 percent but notfor the languages with more abundant corporasuch as for instance English-Inuktitut.2.1 Word Alignment: UplugWe have chosen to use the Uplug word align-ment system since it is a non-commercial systemwhich does not need a pre-trained model and iseasy to use.
It is also updated continuously andincorporates other alignment models, such asGIZA++ (Och & Ney 2003).
We did not want toevaluate the performance of different systems inthe work presented here, but rather evaluate theperformance of only one system applied on dif-ferent language combinations and on sparse cor-pora.
Evaluating the performance of differentsystems is an important and interesting researchproblem, but is left for future work.
An evalua-tion of two word alignment systems Plug (Uplug)and Arcade is described in Ahrenberg et al(2000).The Uplug system implements a word align-ment process that combines different statisticalmeasures for finding word alignment candidatesand is fully automatic.
It is also possible to com-bine statistical measures with linguistic informa-tion, such as part-of-speech tags.
In the preproc-essing steps the corpora are converted to an xml-format and they are also sentence aligned.We have chosen to use basic settings for allcorpora in the different language pairs, in orderto evaluate the effect of this.
The default wordalignment settings in Uplug works in the follow-ing way:?
create basic clues (Dice and LCSR)?
run GIZA++ with standard settings(trained on plain text)11?
learn clues from GIZA's Viterbi align-ments?
"radical stemming" (take only the 3 initialcharacters of each token) and run GIZA++again?
align words with existing clues?
learn clues from previous alignment?
align words again with all existing clues1This approach is called the clue alignment ap-proach and is described further in Tiedemann(2003b).
In the work presented here, we have notincluded any linguistic information, as wewanted to evaluate the performance of applyingthe system on sparse, raw, unprocessed corporafor different (Nordic) language pairs, using de-fault settings.3 Experiments and ResultsFor the project presented in this paper we wantedto see if it was possible to create domain-specificdictionaries on even smaller corpora.
(comparedto the ones described in Section 2) for all theNordic language pairs.
We did not have the pos-sibility to evaluate the results for Icelandic-Finnish, since we did not find any evaluator hav-ing knowledge in both Icelandic and Finnish.Therefore we present the results for the remain-ing nine language pairs.
In total we had fourevaluators for the other language combinations.Each evaluator evaluated those language pairs1 Steps taken from the Quickstart guidelines for the Uplugsystem, which can be downloaded here:http://uplug.sourceforge.net/she or he had fluent or near-fluent knowledge in.The domain was very restricted containing onlywords about mobility between the Nordic coun-tries.The Scandinavian languages are closely re-lated.
Swedish, Danish, and Norwegian are com-prehensible for Scandinavians.
A typical Swedewill for instance understand written and to a cer-tain degree spoken Danish, but is not able tospeak Danish.
Typical Swedes will, for instance,have a passive understanding of Danish (and viceversa for the other languages).
Finnish on theother hand belongs to the Finno-Ugric group ofthe Uralic languages, while the Scandinavianlanguages are North-Germanic Indo-Europeanlanguages.
We wanted to investigate if, and how,these differences affect the word alignment re-sults.
We also wanted to experiment with differ-ent frequency thresholds, in order to see if thiswould influence the results.The first step was to extract the web pagesfrom the web site and obtain the web pages inplain text format.
We obtained help for that workfrom Euroling AB,2 our contractor.In Table 1 we show general information aboutthe corpora.
We see that the distribution of wordsis even for the Scandinavian languages, but notfor the combinations with Finnish.
It is interest-ing to observe that Finnish has fewer word to-kens than the Scandinavian languages.All Nordic languages, both Scandinavian andFinnish, have very productive word compound-ing.
In Finnish word length is longer, on average,2 See: http://www.euroling.se/Language pair No.
texts No.
words Word distribution, first language in language pair, %sw-da 191 83871 49.2sw-no 133 62554 49.7sw-fi 196 73933 57.6sw-ice 187 82711 48.5da-no 156 68777 50.2da-fi 239 84194 58.4da-ice 232 97411 49.5no-fi 156 58901 58.2no-ice 145 64931 49.6Average 182 75254 52.3Table 1: General corpora information, initial corpora12and the number of words per clause lower, onaverage, due to its extensive morphology.In Dalianis et al(2007) lemmatizing the textset before the alignment process did not improveresults.
In the work presented here, we have alsomade some experiments on lemmatizing the cor-pora before the alignment process.
We have usedthe CST lemmatizer3 for the Scandinavian lan-guages and Fintwol4 for Finnish.
Unfortunately,the results were not improved.
The main reasonfor the decrease in performance is probably dueto the loss of sentence formatting during thelemmatization process.
The sentence alignmentis a crucial preprocessing step for the wordalignment process, and a lot of the sentenceboundaries were lost in the lemmatization proc-ess.
However, the resulting word lists fromUplug have been lemmatized using the samelemmatizers, in order to obtain normalized dic-tionaries.The corpora were to some extent non-parallelcontaining some extra non-parallel paragraphs.We found that around five percent of the corporawere non-parallel.
In order to detect non-parallelsections we have used a simpler algorithm thanin for instance Munteanu & Marcu (2006).
Thetotal number of paragraphs and sentences in each3 See: http://cst.dk/download/cstlemma/current/doc/4 See: http://www2.lingsoft.fi/cgi-bin/fintwolparallel text pair were counted.
If the total num-ber for each language in some language pair dif-fered more than 20 percent these files were de-leted.
The refined corpora have been re-alignedwith Uplug and evaluated.
In Table 2 we showthe general information for the refined corpora.3.1 EvaluationOur initial plan was to use the manually con-structed dictionaries from the web site as anevaluation resource, but the words in these dic-tionaries were rare in the corpus.
Therefore weused human evaluators to evaluate the resultsfrom Uplug.The results from the Uplug execution gave onaverage 213 new dictionary words (frequency >3) per language, see Table 3.
The average errorrate 5  was 16 percent.
We delimited the wordamount by removing words shorter than six char-acters, and also multiword expressions6 from theresulting word lists.
The six character strategy isefficient for the Scandinavian languages as analternative to stop word removal (Dalianis et al2003) since the Scandinavian languages, as well5 The error rate is in this paper defined as the percentage ofwrongly generated entries compared to the total number ofgenerated entries.6 A multiword expression is in this paper defined as words(sequences of characters, letters or digits) separated by ablank or a hyphen.Language pair No.
parallel texts Deleted files, % No.
words, parallelWord distribution,first language inlanguage pair, %sw-da 179 6.3 78356 49.7sw-no 128 3.8 59161 49.8sw-fi 189 3.6 69525 58.1sw-ice 175 5.9 76056 48.3da-no 147 5.8 64946 50.2da-fi 222 7.1 77849 58.6da-ice 210 3.4 89093 49.0no-fi 145 7.1 55409 58.3no-ice 130 2.1 59622 49.0Average 169 5.0 70002 52.3Table 2: General corpora information, refined parallel corpora (non-parallel texts deleted)13as Finnish, mostly produce compounds that areformed into one word (i.e.
without blanks or hy-phens).
In Tiedemann (2008), a similar strategyof removing words with a word length shorterthan five characters was carried out but in thatcase for English, Dutch and German.Different combinations with Finnish had ahigher error rate, 30 percent, whereas the errorrate for the combinations of the Scandinavianlanguages only yielded on average 9 percenterrors.The high error rate for Finnish is possibly dueto the fact that the Finnish language belongs to adifferent language family.
We can see the samephenomena for Greek (Charitakis, 2007) andTurkish (Megyesi & Dahlqvist, 2007) combinedwith English and Swedish respectively, with 33and 31 percent erroneously translated words.However, one might expect even higher errorrates due to the differences in the different lan-guage pairs (and the sparseness of the data).
Fin-nish has free word order and is typologicallyvery different from the Scandinavian languages,and the use of form words differs between thelanguages.
On the other hand, both Finnish andthe Scandinavian languages produce long, com-plex compounds somewhat similarly, and theword order in Finnish share many features withthe word order in the Scandinavian languages.One important aspect is the cultural similaritiesthat the languages share.The main errors that were produced for thecombinations of Finnish and the Scandinavianlanguages consisted of either errors with particlesor compounds where the head word or attributewere missing in the Finnish alignment.
For in-stance, the Swedish word inv?nare (inhabitant)was aligned with the Finnish word asukasluku(number of inhabitants).
Another error whichwas produced for all combinations with Finnishwas lis?tieto (more information) which wasaligned with ytterligere (additional, more) inNorwegian (and equivalent words in Swedishand Danish), an example of an error where thehead word is missing.
Many texts had sentencespointing to further information, which might ex-plain this type of error.The lemmatizers produced some erroneousword forms.
In Dalianis & Jongejan (2006) theCST lemmatizer was evaluated and reported anaverage error rate of nine percent.
Moreover,since the lemmatization process is performed onthe resulting word lists, and not within the origi-nal context in which the words occur, the auto-matic lemmatization is more difficult for the twolemmatizers used in this project.
These errorshave not been included in our evaluation sincethey are not produced by the Uplug alignmentprocedure.We can also see in Table 3 that deleting non-parallel texts using our simple algorithm did notimprove the overall results significantly.
Perhapsour simple algorithm was too coarse for thesecorpora.
The texts were in general very short andsimple frequency information on paragraph andsentence amounts might not have captured non-parallel fragments on such texts.Initial   Deleting non-parallelLanguagepairNo.
dictionarywordsErroneoustranslations, %No.
dictionarywords  Erroneous translations, %sw-da 322 7.1 305 7.2sw-no 269 6.3 235 9.4sw-fi 138 29.0 133  34.6sw-ice 151 18.5 173 16.2da-no 322 3.7 304 4.3da-fi 169 34.3 244  33.2da-ice 206 6.8 226 10.2no-fi 185 27.6 174  30.0no-ice 159 14.5 181 14.4Average  213 16.4  219  16.1Table 3: Produced dictionary words and error rate14The produced dictionary words were of highdomain-specific quality.
The majority of the cor-rect and erroneous word pairs were covered byboth the initial and the refined corpus.
Deletingnon-parallel texts produced some new, valuablewords that were not included in the initial results.However, since these dictionaries were generallysmaller, this did not improve the overall results,and the error rate was somewhat higher for mostlanguage pairs.
Improved dictionary in this workmeans as many word pairs as possible with do-main-specific significance.Since the texts were about different country-specific issues they could contain sections in an-other language (names of ministries, offices etc).This produced some errors in the alignment re-sults.
These errors might have been avoided byapplying a language checker while processingthe texts.The errors for the Scandinavian languageswere also mainly of the same type, and mostlydue to the fact that the texts were not completelyparallel, or due to form words or compounds.
Forinstance, the Swedish word exempelvis (for ex-ample) was aligned with the Norwegian wordeksempel (example), which was counted as anerror, but which, in its context, is not completelyerroneous.Even at a relatively low frequency thresholdthe results were very good for the Scandinavianlanguages.
We tried to increase the frequencythreshold in order to see if this would improvethe results for Finnish, which it unfortunately didnot.
However, as stated above, the errors weremainly of the same type, and probably constantover different frequencies.
We also see that forIcelandic, unlike the other languages, deletingnon-parallel fragments yielded larger dictionar-ies.
Uplug produced more multiword units forthe initial corpora containing Icelandic, singleword pairs were more frequent in the refinedcorpus.
However, the overall results were notimproved.4 Conclusions and Future WorkAlthough the corpora were very sparse the wordalignment results for Swedish-Danish, Swedish-Norwegian and Danish-Norwegian were surpris-ingly good with on average 93.1 percent correctresults.
The results for Finnish were worse withon average only 67.4 percent correct results.However, as discussed above, the main errorswere of the same type.
Creating dictionaries fornon-related languages might need more elaboratealignment approaches.
In the special case of Fin-nish combined with one (or several) of the Scan-dinavian languages, simple preprocessing stepsmight improve the results.
For instance, remov-ing stop words before running the corporathrough a word alignment system might handlethe errors where particles and form words areincluded.
Also, tagging the corpora with part-of-speech tags and lemmatizing as a preprocessingstep might improve results.An important aspect of automatically creatingmultilingual dictionaries is the need for preproc-essing tools covering all languages.
This is oftendifficult to obtain, and different tools use differ-ent formatting and tagging schemes.
Moreover,they might differ in robustness, which also af-fects the end results.
In this project, we encoun-tered such problems during the lemmatizationprocess for instance, but we did not have the op-portunity to explore and evaluate alternativetools.
In the future, evaluating the performanceof the preprocessing steps might be desirable.Evaluating translated words is not easy.
Manywords may be related without being direct trans-lations.
Manual evaluation has the advantage oftaking such issues into account, but this alsomeans that the results might differ depending onthe evaluator.
Furthermore, evaluating transla-tions without contextual information is problem-atic.
Also, the criteria for judging a translation ascorrect or not depend on the goal for the use ofthe word lists.
For instance, the errors for thecombinations with Finnish might not be prob-lematic in a real-world search engine setting, de-pending on which demands there are on thesearch results.
The errors produced in the workpresented here would probably yield acceptablesearch results.
Such user and search engine resultaspects have not been evaluated here, but areinteresting research questions for future work.The Nordic languages are highly inflectional.Combining compound splitting and lemmatizingbefore the alignment process might improve theresults.
Especially compound splitting couldprobably handle the errors produced for the com-binations of Finnish with the Scandinavian lan-guages.
Cross-combining the different languagepairs might enhance the results and create morespecific and errorless dictionaries.
Other wordalignment systems should also be tested, in orderto compare different approaches and their results.Perhaps results from different systems could alsobe combined, in order to produce more extensivedictionaries.
Furthermore, other approaches to15detect non-parallel fragments should be investi-gated.Finding the boundary for the minimum size ofparallel corpora in order to obtain acceptable dic-tionaries is also an interesting research issuewhich should be explored.Automatically creating multilingual dictionar-ies is not trivial.
Many aspects need to be consid-ered.
Especially, the final use of the producedresults influences both the preprocessing stepsrequired and the evaluation of the results.
Also,the languages in consideration affect the stepsthat need to be made.
However, in this paper wehave shown that using state-of-the-art tools onsparse, raw, unprocessed domain-specific cor-pora in both related and non-related languagesyield acceptable and even commendable results.Depending on the purposes for the use of the dic-tionaries, simple adjustments would probablyyield even better results.In a real-world setting, parallel (or near-parallel) corpora covering several (small) lan-guages are difficult to obtain and compile.
Mostresources are found on the Internet, and the qual-ity of the corpora may vary depending on manyaspects.
Formatting, translations, text length andstyle may differ considerably depending on thetype of texts.
Freely available text sets for smalllanguages are often sparse.
Despite this, we haveshown that it is possible to compile valuable re-sources from available data.There are very few sources of dictionariescovering the Nordic language pairs.
The createdcorpora will be made publicly available for fur-ther research and evaluation.ReferencesAhrenberg, L., M. Merkel, A.
S?gvall Hein and J.Tiedemann 2000.
Evaluation of word alignmentsystems.
Lars Ahrenberg, Magnus Merkel, AnnaS?gvall Hein and J?rg Tiedemann.
Proceedings ofthe Second International Conference on LinguisticResources and Evaluation (LREC-2000), Athens,Greece, 31 May - 2 June, 2000, Volume III: 1255-1261.Charitakis, K. 2007.
Using parallel corpora to create aGreek-English dictionary with Uplug, in Proc.
16thNordic Conference on Computational Linguistics -NODALIDA ?07.Dalianis, H. and B. Jongejan 2006.
Hand-crafted ver-sus Machine-learned Inflectional Rules: the Eurol-ing-SiteSeeker Stemmer and CST's Lemmatiser, inProc.
of the International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, LREC 2006.Dalianis, H., M. Rimka and V. Kann 2007.
UsingUplug and SiteSeeker to construct a cross languagesearch engine for Scandinavian.
Workshop: TheAutomatic Treatment of Multilinguality in Re-trieval, Search and Lexicography, Copenhagen,April 2007.Dalianis, H., M. Hassel, J. Wedekind, D. Haltrup, K.de Smedt and T.C.
Lech.
2003.
Automatic textsummarization for the Scandinavian languages.
InHolmboe, H.
(ed.)
Nordisk Sprogteknologi 2002:?rbog for Nordisk Spr?kteknologisk Forsknings-program 2000-2004, pp.
153-163.
Museum Tuscu-lanums Forlag.Martin, J and R. Mihalcea and T. Pedersen.
2005.Word Alignment for Languages with Scarce Re-sources.
Proceedings of the ACL 2005 Workshopon Building and Using Parallel Texts: Data DrivenMachine Translation and Beyond, Ann Arbor, MI,June 2005.Megyesi, B. and B. Dahlqvist, 2007.
The Swedish-Turkish Parallel Corpus and Tools for its Creation,in Proc.
16th Nordic Conference on ComputationalLinguistics - NODALIDA ?07.Munteanu, D.S.
and D. Marcu 2006.
Extracting Paral-lel Sub-sentential Fragments from Non-parallelCorpora.
ACL ?06: Proceedings of the 21st Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics,pp.
81-88, Sydney, Australia.Nystr?m, M., M. Merkel, L. Ahrenberg, P. Zweigen-baum, H. Petersson and H. ?hlfeldt.
2006.
Creat-ing a Medical English-Swedish Dictionary usingInteractive Word Alignment, in BMC medical in-formatics and decision making, 6:35.Franz Josef Och, Hermann Ney.
A Systematic Com-parison of Various Statistical Alignment Models,Computational Linguistics, volume 29, number 1,pp.
19-51 March 2003.Tiedemann, J.
2003a.
Recycling Translations: Extrac-tion of Lexical Data from Parallel Corpora andtheir Application in Natural Language Processing.Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis: Studia linguisticaupsaliensia, ISSN 1652-1366, ISBN 91-554-5815-7.Tiedemann, J.
2003b.
Combining clues for wordalignment.
In Proceedings of the Tenth Conferenceon European Chapter of the Association For Com-putational Linguistics - Volume 1 (Budapest, Hun-gary, April 12 - 17, 2003).
European Chapter Meet-ing of the ACL.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Morristown, NJ, 339-346.
DOI=http://dx.doi.org/10.3115/1067807.1067852.Tiedemann, J.
2008.
Synchronizing Translated MovieSubtitles.
In the Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation, LREC 2008, Marrakech, Morocco,May 28-30, 2008.16
