BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 118?119,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsRaising the Compatibility of Heterogeneous Annotations:A Case Study on Protein Mention RecognitionYue Wang?
Kazuhiro Yoshida?
Jin-Dong Kim?
Rune S?tre?
Jun?ichi Tsujii???
?Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo?School of Informatics, University of Manchester?National Center for Text MiningHongo 7-3-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033 JAPAN{wangyue, kyoshida, jdkim, rune.saetre, tsujii}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractWhile there are several corpora which claimto have annotations for protein references,the heterogeneity between the annotations isrecognized as an obstacle to develop expen-sive resources in a synergistic way.
Here wepresent a series of experimental results whichshow the differences of protein mention an-notations made to two corpora, GENIA andAImed.1 IntroductionThere are several well-known corpora with proteinmention annotations.
It is a natural request to bene-fit from the existing annotations, but the heterogene-ity of the annotations remains an obstacle.
The het-erogeneity is caused by different definitions of ?pro-tein?, annotation conventions, and so on.It is clear that by raising the compatibility of an-notations, we can reduce the performance degrada-tion caused by the heterogeneity of annotations.In this work, we design several experiments toobserve the effect of removing or relaxing the het-erogeneity between the annotations in two corpora.The experimental results show that if we understandwhere the difference is, we can raise the compati-bility of the heterogeneous annotations by removingthe difference.2 Corpora and protein mention recognizerWe used two corpora: the GENIA corpus (Kimet al, 2003), and the AImed corpus (Bunescu andMooney, 2006).
There are 2,000 MEDLINE ab-stracts and 93,293 entities in the GENIA corpus.?????????????????????
??
??
??
???
???
???
????????????????????????????????
?Figure 1: The learning curve according to the F-scoreThe annotation is dependent on a small taxonomyof 36 classes.
The AImed corpus consists of 225MEDLINE abstracts, and there are 4,084 protein ref-erences.Our protein mention recognizer is a MaximumEntropy Markov Model (MEMM) n-best tagger.3 The effect of the inconsistencyWe did two experiments in order to characterize thefollowing two assumptions.
First, we can improvethe performance by increasing the size of the train-ing data set.
Secondly, the system performance willdrop when more inconsistent annotations are intro-duced into the training data set.In these two experiments, for the training, weused the AImed corpus and the AImed corpus plusthe GENIA protein annotations, respectively.
Weconducted the evaluation on the AImed corpus.The learning curve drawn from the results of thetwo mentioned experiments is shown in Figure 1.We can see that the learning curve is still increasing118Subcategory Recall Precision F-scoreFamily or group 12.94 3.86 5.94Domain or region 15.74 0.57 1.11Molecule 48.80 34.43 40.37Substructure 0.00 0.00 0.00Subunit 65.36 3.38 6.43Complex 13.43 0.98 1.83ETC 14.29 0.03 0.07Table 1: The experimental results on seven subclasses.when we used up all the training portions from theAImed corpus.
Even though the rate of the improve-ment is slow, we would expect a further improve-ment if we could add more training data in a largescale, e.g.
the GENIA corpus is 10 times bigger thanthe AImed corpus.
But when we added the proteinannotations in the GENIA corpus to the training dataset, we witnessed a drastic degradation in the perfor-mance.
We assume that the degradation is caused bythe heterogeneity of the protein annotations in thesetwo corpora, and we further assume that if the het-erogeneity could be eliminated, the learning curvewould go back to an increasing state.4 Raising the compatibilityAlthough both corpora include protein mention an-notations, the target task is different.
GENIA con-cerns all the protein-mentioning terms, while AImedfocuses only on the references of individual pro-teins.
In the GENIA corpus, besides the 36 classes,some subclasses are also included.
In the case withthe protein class, there are seven subclasses: fam-ily or group, domain or region, molecule, substruc-ture, subunit, complex, etc.
Further, in the AImedcorpus, protein/gene families are not tagged, onlyprotein molecules are tagged.We conducted an experiment to verify what wefound from the documentation of the two corpora.We trained our tagger using the AImed corpus, andevaluated it on the GENIA corpus.
Each time, weassumed only the annotation of one protein subclassin the GENIA corpus as the ?gold?
annotation.
Table1 shows the experimental results.The experimental results clearly supported thedocumented scope of the protein annotation in GE-NIA and AImed: The protein mention recognizerAImed + Subcategory Criterion F-scoreMolecule+Subunit Exact 64.72Left 69.48Right 67.64Molecule+Subunit+Complex Exact 63.76Left 72.77Right 67.60Table 2: The experimental results on three subclasses.trained with AImed best recognized the GENIA an-notation instances of Protein molecules among allsubclasses, and the performance of recognizing Pro-tein family or group instances was very poor.We therefore have a hypothesis: if we unitethe GENIA annotations of Protein molecule, Pro-tein subunit, and Protein complex with the AImedcorpus, and we use this united corpus to train ourtagger, we can improve the performance of our tag-ger on the AImed corpus.
Table 2 shows our exper-imental results based on this hypothesis.
It can beseen from the result that, if we assume that the up-per bound of the F-score of this approach is near to83.23%, we reduced the incompatibility of the twocorpora by 30%.
The reduction was obtained by un-derstanding the difference of the protein annotationsmade to the corpora.5 ConclusionWe implemented several experiments in order to re-move the negative influence of the disagreementsbetween two corpora.
Our objective is to raise thecompatibility of heterogeneous annotations.
Somesimple experiments partly revealed where the het-erogeneity between the protein mention annotationsin GENIA and AImed is.
More qualitative and quan-titative analysis will be done to identify the remain-ing heterogeneity.ReferencesRazvan Bunescu and Raymond Mooney.
2006.
Subse-quence Kernels for Relation Extraction.
Advances inNeural Information Processing Systems, 18:171?178.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi and Jun?ichiTsujii.
2003.
GENIA Corpus - a Semantically An-notated Corpus for Bio-textmining.
Bioinformatics,19(Suppl.
1):i180?i182.119
