Prominence and Phrasing in Spoken Discourse ProcessingShari R. Speer Kiwako ItoDepartment of Linguistics Department of LinguisticsOhio State University Ohio State UniversityColumbus, Ohio, USA Columbus, Ohio, USAspeer@ling.osu.edu ito@ling.osu.eduAbstractWe review psycholinguistic research on theuse of intonation in dialogue, focusing on ourown recent work.
In experiments using com-plex real-world tasks and na?ve speakers andlisteners, we show that speakers reliably spe-cific prosodic cues to signal their intensions,and that listeners use these cues to recognizesyntactic and pragmatic aspects of discoursemeaning.1 IntroductionThe intonation of an utterance conveys a great dealof information about a speaker?s intended message.Recent research has addressed whether, when, andhow speakers use intonation to transmit linguisticand paralinguistic meaning.
Speakers use intona-tion for a broad range of functions in communica-tion, such as: to mark the difference betweenimmediately relevant vs. background information;to express contrast, contradiction, and correction;and to indicate the intended syntax of ambiguousutterances.In this paper, we will review recent experimentalstudies of na?ve speakers?
and listeners?
use of in-tonation during production and comprehension.We focus primarily on our own work, where wehave used naturalistic, relatively complex real-world tasks to elicit speakers?
intonation in dia-logue, and to examine listeners?
ability to use into-nation during comprehension.1.1 Structure of the ReviewThe review includes a very brief overview of theToBI (Tone and Break Indices: Beckman, Hir-shberg & Shattuck Hufnagel, 2005; Brugos, Shat-tuck Hufnagel, & Veilleux, 2006), a system widelyused to annotate the locations and types of intona-tional entities present in speech.
We then turn tothe correspondence between intonational phrasingand syntactic constituency, examining whether andhow speakers use the location and size of prosodicbreaks as they produce syntactic structure, and test-ing listeners?
ability to use this correspondence.Next, we will discuss the role of intonationalprominence in discourse structuring.
In particular,we will examine the production and comprehen-sion of accentual prominence to express referentialcontrast.
Our experimental findings suggest thatboth phrasing and prominence cues are robust forunderstanding spoken messages, and infelicitoususe of those prosodic cues may mislead the lis-tener?s comprehension processes.
The closing dis-cussion emphasizes the contribution of intonationto spoken language processing, and its essentialrole in discourse modeling.2 Prosodic phrasing and syntactic structureProduction experiments investigating the corre-spondence of prosodic and syntactic phrasing inlanguage production were conducted using a par-tially-scripted two-player board game task (Speer,Warren, & Schafer, 2003, Schafer, Speer, & War-ren, 2005).
The game was constructed to elicit par-ticular syntactic contrasts as the players spoke to1each other to exchange information and movegame pieces from start to goal, avoiding hazardsand collecting bonuses.
Speakers were required touse a fixed set of sentence frames and game piecenames to construct instructions, requests and ac-knowledgements.
Board layouts were carefullyconstructed to create situational contexts for theresulting dialogues produced by the speakers, sothat potentially syntactically ambiguous utterancessometimes remained ambiguous given the gamecontext, but sometimes were contextually disam-biguated.
The task allowed recording of multiplerenditions of a sentence from the same speaker, aswell as across speakers.Phonetic analyses and phonological transcriptionof speech from the game task experiments demon-strates that speakers reliably used prosodic cues tosignal syntactic structure, and to convey the in-tended meaning of syntactically ambiguous sen-tences.
Although speakers produced a wide varietyof prosodic patterns for the same sentence, theyconsistently placed the strongest prosodic break inthe syntactic location that indicated their intendedmeaning.
This effect held for different syntactictypes, and was robust across various types of po-tentially disambiguating situational contexts.Companion comprehension experiments used thena?ve speakers?
productions from the game task asstimuli in forced-choice experiments.
Results showthat listeners make reliable use of prosodic regu-larities to accurately recover the speakers?
intendedmeanings.3 Intonational prominence and contrastTo investigate na?ve speakers?
use of intonationalprominence to mark contrast, Ito, Speer & Beck-man (2004; Ito & Speer, 2006) elicited unscriptedspeech using a holiday tree decoration task.
Na?vespeakers were asked to be ?directors,?
giving in-structions about how to hang ornaments on a treeto a confederate ?decorator.?
Photos of ornamentsand the tree were used to give ?directors?
the se-quence of ornaments and their intended locationson the tree.
By using a set of common color termsand object names for the ornaments, we collectedmultiple spontaneous productions of target adjec-tive-noun pairs (e.g.
?green bell?)
in a natural con-versational setting.
The sequence of decorationwas constructed to create contrastive discoursecontexts (green bell -> blue bell).
Prosodic annota-tion of the spontaneous speech and supportingphonetic measurements indicated that speakersused prominent pitch accent more frequently whenthe decoration sequence was contrastive than whenit was not (e.g.
?green bell?.
?
Now, find aBLUE bell?
: where the adjective ?blue?
is accentedand the repeated noun ?bell?
is deaccented).To test how prominent accent guides referentialresolution during comprehension, a set of experi-ments was conducted using eye movement moni-toring technique (Ito & Speer, 2008).
Spokenstimuli modeled on the productions from the pre-vious production study were recorded by a trainedphonetician.
This time, na?ve listeners followedinstructions to locate ornaments and hang them asspecified on a small tree.Results showed the immediate use of intona-tional cues by the listeners.
For example, when aprominent accent felicitously marked contrast on acolor adjective (?First hang the red ball.
?
Next,hang the BLUE ball?
), fixation proportions to tar-get cells increased more quickly than when intona-tion did not cue the contrast (?Hang the red ball.
?Next, hang the blue ball.?).
The timing of fixationsindicates that listeners moved their eyes to the cor-rect ornament before processing the segmental in-formation of the noun.
In addition, prominentaccent misled listeners when the decoration se-quence did not prompt contrast (blue ball ?GREEN drum: here, participants looked at ballsbefore they redirected fixations to the drum).
Theseincorrect fixations increased toward the end of theadjective and continued to rise halfway into thenoun with conflicting segmental information.Thus, listeners were executing their initial visualsearch based on the intonational information of theadjective, demonstrating the use of prosody formaking predictions during comprehension of run-ning speech.AcknowledgmentsTo our colleagues and co-investigators, especiallyPing Bai, Mary Beckman and Laurie Maynell, andto NSF BCS-0617609 & REU-0617609 and NIHDC007090.2ReferencesBeckman, M.E., Hirschberg, J., & Shattuck-Huffnagel,S.
(2005).
The original ToBI system and the evolu-tion of the ToBI framework.
In Sun-Ah Jun (ed.
),Prosodic models and transcription: Towards pro-sodic typology.
Oxford University Press.Brugos, A., Shattuck-Hufnagel, S., & Vielleux, N.(2006).
Transcribing Prosodic Structure of SpokenUtterances with ToBI., MIT Open Courseware,http://ocw.mit.edu/OcwWeb/Electrical-Engineering-and-Computer-Science/6-911January--IAP--2006.Ito & Speer, S.R.
(2006).
Using interactive tasks toelicit natural dialogue.
In P. Augurzky & D. Lener-tova (Eds.
), Methods in Empirical Prosody Research,Mouton de Gruyter.Ito, K., & Speer, S.R.
(2008).
Anticipatory effects ofintonation: Eye movements during instructed visualsearch.
Journal of Memory and Language, Special is-sue on Language-Vision interaction.Ito, K., Speer, S.R., & Beckman, M. (2004).
Informa-tional status and pitch accent distribution in sponta-neous dialogues in English.
Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Speech Prosody.
Nara,Japan.Schafer, A.J., Speer, S.R., & Warren, P. (2005).
Pro-sodic influences on the production and comprehen-sion of syntactic ambiguity in a game-basedconversation task.
In M. Tanenhaus & J.
Trueswell(Eds.)
Approaches to Studying World Situated Lan-guage Use: Psycholinguistic, Linguistic and Compu-tational Perspectives on Bridging the Product andAction Tradition, Cambridge: MIT Press.Speer, S.R., Warren, P., & Schafer, A.J.
(2003).
Into-nation and sentence processing.
Proceedings of theFifteenth International Congress of Phonetic Sci-ences, Barcelona, Spain.3
