Refining the Meaning of SenseLabels in PDTB: ?Concession?Livio RobaldoUniversity of Turin (Italy)email: robaldo@di.unito.itEleni MiltsakakiUniversity of Pennsylvania (USA)email: elenimi@linc.cis.upenn.eduJerry R. HobbsUniversity of Southern California (USA)email: hobbs@isi.eduAbstractThe most recent release of PDTB 2.0 contains annotations of senses ofconnectives.
The PDTB 2.0 manual describes the hierarchical set ofsenses used in the annotation and offers rough semantic descriptions ofeach label.
In this paper, we refine the semantics of concession sub-stantially and offer a formal description of concessive relations and theassociated inferences drawn by the reader, utilizing basic notions fromHobbs?s logic, including the distinction between causes and causal com-plexes (Hobbs, 2005).
This work is part of a larger project on the se-mantics of connectives which aims at developing formal descriptions ofdiscourse relations, useful for processing real data.207208 Robaldo, Miltsakaki, and Hobbs1 IntroductionAs the demand for more powerful NLP applications increases, there is also an in-creasing need to develop algorithms for automated processing of discourse relationsand models for deriving the inferences drawn by the reader.
PDTB 2.0 (Prasad et al,2008), released in January 2008, contains annotations of discourse connectives andtheir arguments, attribution, and sense labels giving rough semantic descriptions ofthe connectives.
The availability of such a richly annotated corpus promises to boostour understanding of the structure and meaning of discourse and will facilitate thedevelopment of efficient algorithms for identifying discourse connectives and theirarguments.However, in order to be able to derive appropriate inferences associated with dis-course relations, we need to develop useful semantic analyses of the meaning of con-nectives so that they will generate the same range of inferences made by humans.
Inthis paper we take a first step in that direction, offering a simple formal analysis ofconcessive relations, thus refining the semantics of the concessive sense labels usedin PDTB 2.0.
Our analysis uses basic notions of causality developed in Hobbs (1998,2005), capitalizing on the distinction between causes and causal complexes and onthe semantics of defeasible causality.
Concessive meaning involves the failure of ageneral defeasible causal relation in this specific instance.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 gives an overview of the PDTB 2.0,focusing on the annotation of the senses of connectives, especially ?concession?.
InSection 3, we present an overview of the framework we are adopting for our formalanalysis, namely, Hobbs?s logic of causality, and our basic claims about how the se-mantics of defeasible causality contributes to the semantics of concession.
Section 4presents the semantic analysis of ?concession?.
In Section 5, we report briefly on thedistribution of concessive labels in PDTB 2.0 and conclude in Section 6.2 Sense labels in PDTBThe Penn Discourse Treebank provides annotations of the argument structure of dis-course connectives, attribution (e.g., ?ownership?
of the relation by the writer or otherindividual), and semantic labels for all the annotated connectives (Prasad et al, 2008).This annotation of discourse connectives and their arguments draws on a lexical ap-proach to discourse structure (Webber et al, 2003; Webber and Joshi, 2003), viewingdiscourse connectives as discourse-level predicates that take two abstract objects suchas events, states, and propositions (Asher, 1993) as their arguments.Two major types of discourse connectives are annotated in PDTB: a) explicit con-nectives including subordinate conjunctions, coordinate conjunctions and adverbials,and b) implicit connectives that are inserted between two adjacent sentences to cap-ture the meaning of the inferred relation when no explicit connective is present.
ThePDTB 2.0 is, to date, the largest annotation effort at the discourse level, including ap-proximately 40,000 triples in the form (Connective, Arg1, Arg2).
Arg2 is the secondargument in the text in the case of coordinating conjunctions, and is the complementof subordinating conjunctions.
In the case of adverbs, Arg2 is the element which theadverb modifies syntactically.
In cases of ambiguity, sense labels indicate the intendedsense in the given context.
In all other cases, sense labels provide semantic descrip-Refining the Meaning of Sense Labels in PDTB: ?Concession?
209tions of the relations conveyed by the connectives, both explicit and implicit.The tagset of senses is organized hierarchically (Miltsakaki et al, 2008).
The toplevel, or class level, has four tags representing four major semantic classes: ?TEMPO-RAL?, ?CONTINGENCY?, ?COMPARISON?
and ?EXPANSION?.
For each class,a second level of types is defined to further refine the semantics of the class levels.For example, ?CONTINGENCY?
has two types ?Cause?
(relating two situations viaa direct cause-effect relation) and ?Condition?
(relating a hypothetical scenario withits (possible) consequences).
A third level of subtype specifies the semantic contribu-tion of each argument.
For ?CONTINGENCY?, its ?Cause?
type has two subtypes ??reason?
(which applies when the connective indicates that the situation specified inArg2 is interpreted as the cause of the situation specified in Arg1, as often with theconnective because) and ?result?
(which is used when the connective indicates thatthe situation described in Arg2 is interpreted as the result of the situation presented inArg1).
That is, ?reason?
occurs when Arg2 causes Arg1; ?result?
occurs when Arg1causes Arg2.Connectives can also be used to relate arguments pragmatically as in John is inthe house because the lights are on or If you?re thirsty, there?s beer in the fridge,where the relation involbes the belief in or the telling of the condition rather than thecondition itself.
For these rhetorical or pragmatic uses of connectives, a small set ofpragmatic sense tags has been defined ?
specifically, ?Pragmatic Cause?, ?PragmaticCondition?, ?Pragmatic Contrast?
and ?Pragmatic Concession?.2.1 ?Concession?
in PDTB?Concession?
is a type of the class-level category ?COMPARISON?.
The class tag?COMPARISON?
applies when the connective indicates that a discourse relation isestablished between Arg1 and Arg2 in order to highlight prominent differences be-tween the two situations.
Semantically, the truth of both arguments is independent ofthe connective or the established relation.
?COMPARISON?
has two types that furtherspecify its semantics.
In some cases, Arg1 and Arg2 share a predicate or a propertyand the difference is highlighted with respect to the values assigned to this property.This interpretation is tagged with the type ?Contrast?.There are also cases in which the highlighted differences are related to expectationsraised by one argument which are then denied by the other.
This intepretation istagged with the type ?Concession?.
According to the description in the PDTB 2.0manual, the type ?Concession?
applies when the connective indicates that one of thearguments describes a situation A which normally causesC, while the other asserts (orimplies) ?C.
Alternatively, one argument denotes a fact that triggers a set of potentialconsequences, while the other denies one or more of them.Two ?Concession?
subtypes are defined in terms of the argument creating an ex-pectation and the one denying it.
Specifically, when Arg2 creates an expectation thatArg1 denies, it is tagged as ?expectation?, shown in (1.c-d).
When Arg1 creates anexpectation that Arg2 denies, it is tagged as ?contra-expectation?, shown in (1.e-f).Examples (1.a-b) are made-up sentences we use for explanation and will be discussedhere and in the next section.
All other examples are taken from PDTB 2.0.
Each dis-course fragment in (1) distinguishes between a discourse connective (underlined), andtwo sentence-arguments: Arg1 (italics) and Arg2 (boldface).210 Robaldo, Miltsakaki, and Hobbs(1) a.
Although John studied hard, he did not pass the exam.
(expectation)b.
Although running is considered healthy, it is not advisable for personswith heart problems.
(expectation)c. Although they represent only 2% of the population, they control nearlyone-third of discretionary income.
(expectation)d. While acquiring a big brand-name company can be a shortcut togrowth, it can also bring a host of unforeseen problems (expectation)e. The Texas oilman has acquired a 26.2% stake valued at more than $1.2billion in an automotive-lighting company, Koito Manufacturing Co.But he has failed to gain any influence at the company.
(contra-expectation)f. Mr. Cannell?s allegations of cheating ?are purely without foundation?,and based on unfair inferences.
However the state will begin keepingcloser track of achievement-test preparation booklets next spring..(contra-expectation)(1.a) is an example of ?expectation?
: Arg2 (John studied hard) creates the expecta-tion that John passed the exam, which is precisely denied by Arg1.
The same holdsfor (1.b-d).
Note that (1.b), unlike (1.a, c-d), expresses a general concessive relation,i.e., it does not refer to particular contingent events.
(1.e-f) are instances of contra-expectation, where the expectation is created by Arg1.
In (1.e), the fact that the Texasoilman acquired the indicated stake value creates the expectation that he gained influ-ence at the company, while, in (1.f), since Mr. Cannell?s allegations of cheating arepurely without foundation (in the speaker?s judgement), we do not expect the state tostart tracking the test preparation.3 Toward a formal definition of ?Concession?Based on our analysis of the range of PDTB tokens tagged with a concessive label, weoffer here a more detailed semantic analysis of the meaning of concessive relations.Since the direction of the concessive relation is not relevant, the argument that createsthe expectation and the argument that denies it are respectively termed as Argcexp andArgdexp.
We claim that a concessive relation arises from a contrast between the effectsof two causal relations cc and cd holding in the domain.
c and d stand for ?creates?
and?denies?, respectively.
The relation denoted by cc is the causal relation that creates theexpectation, and cd the one that denies it.
The effects of these causal relations, as wellas their causes, are taken to be eventualities1.In this paper, we use the letter e for most eventualities, possibly with some subscriptor superscript.2 We make use of the subscripts x1 and x2, respectively, to distinguishbetween the causes and the effects in a causal relation cx.
Therefore, the causes incc and cd are indicated by ec1 and ed1 respectively, and the effects by ec2 and ed2,respectively.
ec2 is the ?created expectation?
; its cause ec1 is conveyed by Argcexp.
ed2is an eventuality that denies ec2, and it is explicitly described in Argdexp.
The cause of1The term ?eventuality?
is borrowed from (Bach, 1981).
It covers both standard notions of ?state?
and?event?.2As we will see, also causal relations are eventualities; so the names cc and cd are an exception to thisrule.Refining the Meaning of Sense Labels in PDTB: ?Concession?
211ed2, i.e., ed1, is usually unknown.
Also ec2 is, in principle, unknown, but in most casesit can be taken as the negation of ed2.For instance, in the context of (1.a), the eventuality John studied hard (ec1) createsthe expectation John passed the exam (ec2).
Nevertheless, Argdexp says that John didnot pass the exam actually (ed2).
The reason of ed2 is unknown and has to be found inthe context.
In other words, the context, whether explicit or inferred, should includeanother eventuality that caused John?s failure, despite his studying hard.
For example,the next sentence might be John was very tired during the exam (ed1).In order to formalize this account of concession, we need a defeasible notion ofcausality.
Many authors propose such an account of causality, e.g.
(Achinstein, 1965;Shoham, 1990; Simon, 1991; Bell, 1999, 2003), and Giunchiglia et al (2004).
The ac-count we use is that of Hobbs (2005).
This distinguishes between the monotonic, pre-cise notion of ?causal complex?
and the nonmonotonic, defeasible notion of ?cause?.The former gives us mathematical rigor; the latter is more useful for everyday rea-soning and can be characterized in terms of the former.
As Hobbs (2005) explains,when we flip a switch to turn on a light, we say that flipping the switch ?caused?
thelight to turn on.
But for this to happen, many other factors had to be in place.
Thebulb had to be intact, the switch had to be connected to the bulb, the power had tobe on in the city, and so on.
The set of all the states and events that have to hold orhappen for an effect e to happen are called the ?causal complex?
of e. Thus, the flip-ping of the switch and the normal states of the bulb, the wiring, and the power supplywould all be in the causal complex for the turning on of the light.
In a causal complex,the majority of participating eventualities are normally true and therefore presumedto hold.
In the light bulb case, unless otherwise indicated, it is normally true that thebulb is not burnt out, that the wiring is intact, that the power is on in the city, and soon.
But the light switch could be on or off; neither can be presumed.
Those eventu-alities that cannot normally be assumed to be true are identified as causes (cf.
Kayserand Nouioua, 2008).
They are useful in planning, because they are often the actionsthat the planner or some other agent must perform.
They are useful in explanationand prediction because they frequently constitute the new information.
They are lessuseful in diagnosis, where the whole causal complex has to be considered.Note that in practice, we can never specify all the eventualities in a causal complexfor an event.
So while the notion of causal complex gives us a precise way of thinkingabout causality, it is not adequate for the kind of practical reasoning we do in planning,explaining, and predicting.
For this, we need the defeasible notion of ?cause?.3.1 Background on Hobbs?s logicHobbs (1998) proposed a wide coverage logical framework for natural language basedon the notion of reification.
Reification is the action of making states and events first-class individuals in the logic, so they can be referred to by constants and variables.We ?reify?
eventualities, from the Latin word ?re(s)?
for ?thing?
: we take them tobe things.
The framework distinguishes two parallel sets of predicates: primed andunprimed.
The unprimed predicates are the ordinary predicates we are used to inlogical representations of language.
For example, (give a b c) says that a gives b to c.When we assert this, we are saying that it actually takes place in the real world.
Theprimed predicate is used to talk about the reified eventualities.
The expression (give?212 Robaldo, Miltsakaki, and Hobbse a b c) says that e is a giving event by a of b to c. Eventualities may be possibleor actual.
When they are actual, this is simply one of their properties.
To say that astate e actually obtains in the real world or that an event e actually occurs in the realworld, we write (Rexist e).
That is, e really exists in the real world.
If I want to fly, mywanting really exists, but my flying does not.
This is represented as:3(Rexist e) ?
(want?
e I e1) ?
(fly?
e1 I)Therefore, contrary to (p x), (p?
e x) does not say that e actually occurs, only that ifit did, it would be a ?p?
event.
The relation between primed and unprimed predicatesis then formalized by the following axiom schema:(forall (x) (iff (p x) (exists(e) (and(p?
e x)(Rexist e)))))Eventualities can be treated as the objects of human thoughts.
Reified eventualitiesare inserted as parameters of such predicates as believe, think, want, etc.
These predi-cates can be applied in a recursive fashion.
The fact that John believes that Jack wantsto eat an ice cream is represented as an eventuality e such that4(believe?
e John e1) ?
(want?
e1 Jack e2) ?(eat?
e2 Jack Ic) ?
(iceCream?
e3 Ic)In Hobbs?s notation, every relation on eventualities, including logical operators, causaland temporal relations, and even tense and aspect, may be reified into another eventu-ality.
For instance, by asserting (imply?
e e1 e2), we reify the implication from e1 to e2into an eventuality e. e has to be thought as ?the state holding between e1 and e2 suchthat whenever e1 really exists, e2 really exists too?.
Negation is represented as (not?
e1e2): e1 is the eventuality of the e2?s not existing.
Some problems arise with negation,in that what is generally negated is an eventuality type rather than an eventuality tokenor instance.
In order to deal with more general cases of concession, we will refer toeventualities that are inconsistentwith other ones.
Two eventualities e1 and e2 are saidto be inconsistent iff they (respectively) imply two other eventualities e3 and e4 suchthat e3 is the negation of e4.
The definition is as follows:(forall (e1 e3)(iff (inconsistent e1 e2)(and (eventuality e1) (eventuality e2)(exists (e3 e4) (and (imply e1 e3)(imply e2 e4)(not?
e3 e4))))))3.2 Typical elements, eventuality types and tokensAmong the things we can think about are both specific eventualities, like Fido is bark-ing, and general or abstract types of eventualities, like Dogs bark.
We do not want totreat these as radically different kinds of entities.
We would like both, at some level, to3In order to increase readability, we will often make use of the symbol ?
in place of the unprimedpredicate and.4The formula expresses the de-re reading of the sentence, where e1, e2 , e3 , John, Jack, Ic are first orderconstants.Refining the Meaning of Sense Labels in PDTB: ?Concession?
213be treated simply as eventualities that can be the content of thoughts.
To this end, thelogical framework includes the notion of typical element (from Hobbs (1983, 1995,1998)).
The typical element of a set is the reification of the universally quantifiedvariable ranging over the elements of the set (cf.
McCarthy (1977)).
Typical elementsare first-order individuals.
The introduction of typical elements arises from the needto move from the standard set-theoretic notations = {x | p(x) }or its logical equivalent,(forall (x) (iff (member x s) (p x)))to a simple statement that p is true of a ?typical element?
of s by reifying typicalelements.
The principal property of typical elements is that all properties of typicalelements are inherited by the real members of the set.It is important not to confuse the concept of typical element with the standard con-cept of ?prototype?, which allows defeasibility, i.e., properties that are not inheritedby all of the real members of the set.
Asserting a predicate on a typical element of aset is logically equivalent to the multiple assertions of that predicate on all elementsof the set.
Talking about typical elements of sets of eventualities leads to the distinc-tion between eventuality types and eventuality tokens.
The logic defines the followingconcepts, for which we omit formal details5: a) Eventualities types (aka abstract even-tualities): eventualities that involve at least one typical element among their argumentsor arguments of their arguments (we can call these ?parameters?
), b) Partially instan-tiated eventuality types (aka partial instances): a particular kind of eventuality typeresulting from instantiating some of the parameters of the abstract eventuality eitherwith real members of their sets or with typical elements of subsets, and c) Eventualitytokens (aka instances: a particular kind of partially instantiated eventuality type withno parameters.
It is a consequence of universal instantiation that any property thatholds of an eventuality type is true of any partial instance of it.Hobbs?s logical framework is particularly suitable to the study of the semantics ofdiscourse connectives, in that it allows focusing on their meaning while leaving under-specified the details about the eventualities involved.
In other words, we can simplyassume the existence of two eventualities e1 and e2 coming from the two argumentsArg1 and Arg2 respectively.
e1 and e2 may be either eventuality tokens, on atomicarguments, as in (1.a), or eventuality tokens, on collective arguments, as in (1.c), or(partially instantiated) eventuality types, as in (1.b), or any other kind of eventuality.The semantics of concession proposed below uniformily applies to all these cases.3.3 Hobbs?s Account of CausalityThe account of causality described above in the introduction is represented in termsof two predicates: (cause?
cx ex1 ex2) and (causalComplex s ex2).
cause?
says that cx isthe state holding between ex1 and ex2 such that the former is a non-presumable cause5Actually, ?instance?
is slightly more general, since if s is a set, x is its typical element, and y is amember of s, y is an instance of x, even though it is not an eventuality.
Nevertheless, in this paper weassume ?instances?
and ?eventuality tokens?
to be synonymous.214 Robaldo, Miltsakaki, and Hobbsof the latter.
causalComplex says that s is the set of all presumable or non-presumableeventualities that are involved in causing ex2.
Obviously, ex1 belongs to s. Thus, in thelight example, the predicate cause applies to the flipping of the switch, while the statesof the bulb, the wiring, and the power supply would all be in the causal complex s.Several axioms characterize the predicates cause and causalComplex.
Some of themrelate causality with time6, some relate causality with probability, and so on Hobbs(2005).It is clear that the theory must not include an axiom stating that, whenever a causalrelation cx and its cause ex1 really exist, the corresponding effect ex2 really exists too.The inclusion of such an axiom would lead to a non-defeasible causality.
Rather, weneed an axiom stating that an effect really exists just in case all the eventualities in itscausal complex really exist:(forall (s e)(if (and (causalComplex s e)(forall (e1) (if (member e1 s) (Rexist e1)))(Rexist e)))Nevertheless, as pointed out above, we can never specify all the eventualities in acausal complex.
Even in simple sentences like (1.a), the eventualities in the causalcomplex are not easy to list, and the real causes may not coincide with what we thinkthe causes are in that context.
For example, recalling our analysis of (1.a) above:ec1=?John studied hard?ec2=?John passed the exam?ed1=?John was tired during the exam?ed2=?John did not pass the exam?cc=?ec1 causes ec2?
; cd=?ed1 causes ed2?One approach at this point would be to say that both ec1 and the negation of ed1belong to the causal complex of ec2, with ec1 being the non-presumable cause of ec2.But this would mean that not being tired during exams is a kind of ?precondition?
forpassing exams by studying hard, which is obviously false in many contexts.
Note,however, that there is an arbitrary quality to what we designate as being in a causalcomplex, because causality forms chains and we can start the chain at any point.
Johnwas tired caused the situation that he did not manage to concentrate, which causedthe situation that he made a lot of errors in the exam, which caused the situation thatthe teacher decided to fail him.
One could argue that the last of these eventualities isthe real cause of ed2.
Similarly, one could argue that ec1 is not the real cause of ec2:John studied hard causes the situation that he makes few errors in the exam .
.
.
and theteacher decides not to fail him.
The predicate cause is defeasibly transitive, however,so these considerations do not affect our account of concession.
Furthermore, we donot take the negation of ed1 as necessarily belonging to the causal complex for ec2.Rather, we claim that ed1, besides being the cause of ed2, is the cause of anothereventuality edp that is inconsistent with an element ecp in the causal complex for ec2.6As argued also by Giordano and Schwind (2004), the effect caused by an eventuality can take place inthe current or in a subsequent instant.Refining the Meaning of Sense Labels in PDTB: ?Concession?
215In (1.a), ecp may be simply John does not have any particular health problem thatjeopardizes his passing the exam.
ed1 caused both John?s failure and an health statusthat jeopardizes the passing of his exam.
This is what we mean here by ?denying ofan expectation?.In our analysis of concession, we distinguish between abstract causalities like hardstudying causes passing exams, and causality tokens like John?s tiredness causedJohn?s failure.
Note that asserting (Rexist c) on an abstract causal relation c amountsto asserting (Rexist c?)
for any (partial) instance c?
of c. But recall that cause is onlydefeasible.
Both the abstract causal principle and its partial instance are simplifiedstand-ins for rules that involve entire causal complexes, not all of whose elements mayobtain.
Thus, just because hard studying causes passing exams, we cannot invariablyconclude that if John really studied, he really passed the exam.4 The meaning of concessive relationsOur basic claim is that the meaning of concessive relations is triggered by a contrastbetween two causal relations cc and cd such that one or more eventualities in the causalcomplex of ec2 (the expectation created by cc), is denied by ed2 (the effect of cd).
cc,cd , ed2, and ec1 (the cause in cc) really exist in the world, or are at least believed toexist by the speaker/writer.
Furthermore, all eventualities in the causal complex fored2, including the non-presumable cause ed1, which is unknown in many cases, reallyexist too.
Argcexp conveys ec1, while Argdexp conveys ed2.We also claim that in all cases of concession it seems that what really creates theexpectation is a causal relation cac that is an abstraction of cc.
cc really exists in theworld precisely because cac really exists and cc is a partial instance of it.
In other words,the real existence of cc is inherited from cac.
On the other hand, there is not necessarilyan abstract counterpart cad for cd that also really exists in the world.
For instance,in (1.a), it seems that what creates the expectation is the assumption that the causalrelation studying hard causes passing exams (cac) really exists in the context.
John?shard studying causes John?s passing exams (cc) is just an instance of cac.
This instancereally exists in the world too.
However, since causality is defeasible, the fact that Johnreally studied hard (ec1) does not entail the real existence of John really passed theexam (ec2).
In fact, this is precisely denied by Argdexp: John did not pass the exam(ed2).
The cause of John?s failure, e.g., John?s tiredness (ed1), is (or is the cause ofan eventuality edp that is) inconsistent with an element ecp of the causal complex for(ec2), namely, John does not have any particural health problem that jeopardizes thepassing of his exam.
Note that we do not necessarily infer that being tired causesfailing an exam: tiredness was the cause of the failure in this particular scenario only.Therefore, we assert that cd really exists, but we do not advocate the existence of amore abstract causal relation cad that really exists too.To summarize, the semantics of concession we propose is formalized in (2).
Theconjuncts (Rexist cc) and (Rexist ed1) have been omitted in (2) because they may beinferred from (Rexist cac) and (Rexist ed2).
sc is the causal complex associated withcc.
ec1 and ed2 are given to us in Argcexp and Argdexp respectively, while all othereventualities may be inferred by abduction from the contextual knowledge; some hintsabout how this may be done are provided in Hobbs (2005).216 Robaldo, Miltsakaki, and Hobbs(2) (exist (cc ca c ec1 ec2 cd ed1 ed2 sc ecp edp)(cause?
cc ec1 ec2) ?
(cause?
cd ed1 ed2) ?
(Rexist ca c) ?
(partialInstance cc ca c) ?
(Rexist cd) ?
(Rexist ec1) ?
(Rexist ed2) ?
(cause ed1 edp) ?
(Rexist edp) ?
(inconsistent ec2 ed2) ?
(causalComplex sc ec2) ?
(memberecp sc) ?
(inconsistent edp ecp))Let us now examine how the semantics given in (2) applies for corpus examplestagged as ?expectation?
or ?contra-expectation?.
Let us analyze (1.b) in the light ofthe semantics proposed in (2).
The abstract causality that creates the expectation (cac) is Something that is considered healthy for humans is advisable for them7.
Thisis partially instantiated in Since running is considered healthy for persons with heartproblems, it is advisable for them (cc).
Nevertheless, the fact that running is reallyconsidered healthy in the context (ec1) does not suffice to assert that running is reallyadvisable for persons with heart problems (ec2).
There is a particular reason whyrunning is not advisable for persons with heart problems (ed2), e.g.
their hearts donot tolerate a heartbeat increase (ed1).
Since running causes a heartbeat increase, theheart can tolerate a heartbeat increase (ecp) is in the causal complex for ec2 and it isinconsistent with ed2.Similarly, in (1.c), which is taken from the PDTB, it is true that representing alow percentage of the population causes controlling low percentage of income (cac).Therefore, they represent 2% of population (ec1) causes they control low percentageof income (ec2).
Nevertheless, ec2 does not really exists in the context, in that it isinconsistent with they control nearly one-third of income (ed2).
There must be anotherreason for why ec2 does not hold.
For instance, either they are very rich, or they donot have as many basic expenses as other people, or a more complex condition.
Thisunknown cause, i.e.
ed1, both makes ed2 true and ec2 false in the context.The last example highlights the point that finding the eventualities involved in (2) isstrongly dependent upon contextual knowledge.
2% is not taken to be a low percentagein any context.
For instance, 2% mercury in the water may be considered a highpercentage of pollution.
Analogously, one third may be considered a high percentagein that context, especially if compared with 2% of population, but it may be a low ormedium percentage in many other contexts.
The analysis of examples (1.d-e) in termsof the definition in (2) is analogous.5 A survey of concessive relations in PDTB 2.0PDTB 2.0 contains 1193 tokens of explicit connectives which are annotated with onesense tagged as ?Concession?, ?contra-expectation?
and ?expectation?.
There are alsoanother 20 tokens that have been annotated with double senses, one of which is theconcessive type or subtypes.
Table (1) shows the distribution of concessive labels forthe 1193 tokens.
Explicit connectives with a concessive label assigned to less than10 tokens are grouped under ?other?.
The rest of the connectives shown in Table (1)amount to 98% of all ?contra-expectation?
and 95% of all ?expectation?
tokens.
The7This is a paraphrase of Something being considered healthy for humans causes it to be advisable forhumans.Refining the Meaning of Sense Labels in PDTB: ?Concession?
217Table 1: Concessive labels in PDTB 2.0CONN ?contra-exp.?
?exp.?
?Concession?
Totalalthough 21 132 1 154 (13%)but 494 12 2 508 (42.5%)even if 3 31 1 35 (3%)even though 15 52 5 72 (6%)however 70 2 5 77 (6.5%)nevertheless 19 0 0 19 (1.5%)nonetheless 17 0 0 17 (1.5%)still 79 2 1 82 (7%)though 30 53 1 84 (7%)while 3 79 1 83 (7%)yet 32 0 0 32 (2.5%)other 13 17 0 30 (2.5%)Total 796 380 17 1193most common connective annotated with the ?Concession?
type or one of its two sub-types is ?but?
with 508 tokens (42% of all concessive labels), followed by ?although?with 154 tokens (13% of all concesive labels).We are currently evaluating the robustness of the proposed refined semantics forconcessive labels in PDTB 2.0 starting with the most the most common concessiveconnectives.
While the validation process for the entire corpus is still work in progress,preliminary results on 25% of ?but?
tokens indicate that the semantics of concessionbased on defeasible causality applies straightforwardly to more than 60% of the data.In future work, we hope to be able to offer a more comprehensive account of all theconcessive labels in PDTB 2.0 including cases of concession in which the createdexpectation arises from an implication rather than from a causal relation (about 23%),as in (3)(3) Although working for U.S. intelligence, Mr. Noriega was hardly helping theU.S.
exclusively.
(expectation)In (3), it is strange to say that working for U.S. intelligence normally ?causes?helping U.S. exclusively.
Rather, the former seems a kind of necessary condition orjob requirement for the latter: working for U.S. intelligence implies (among otherthings) helping U.S. exclusively.
Suppose that someone discovers that Mr. Noriega isnot helping the U.S. exclusively.
Mr. Noriega is arguably breaking a rule or flauting anexpectation.
Therefore, working for U.S. intelligence ?implies?
rather than ?causes?helping U.S. exclusively.It is unsurprising that there are cases of concession based on implication rather thancausality, because the two concepts are very close to each other.
One could think ofimplication as a kind of abstract, informational, or ?denatured?
causality.
Both obey akind of (defeasible) modus ponens.
When the cause or antecedent happens or holds,so does the effect or consequent.
The other key property of causal complexes is that218 Robaldo, Miltsakaki, and Hobbsall the eventualities in it are relevant, in a sense that is made precise in Hobbs (2005).This notoriously does not hold for material implication, but as many have argued,it probably does hold for felicitous uses of our everyday notion of implication.
Inaddition, there are easy conversions between causality and implication.
If A causes B,then the fact that A happens (defeasibly) implies that B happens.
If P implies Q in theeveryday sense, then one?s belief in P (defeasibly) causes one?s belief in Q.
In fact,implicational cases of concession could be viewed as instances of metonymy, where?believe?
is the coercion relation, and hence really causal cases of concession.6 ConclusionWe presented a formal description of the meaning of concession, a substantial refine-ment of the rough semantics given in the manual of sense annotations of connectivesin PDTB 2.0.
Our analysis builds on Hobbs?s logic of defeasible causality enabledby the crucial distinction between causes and causal complexes.
Our basic claim isthat concession is triggered by the contrast between two causal relations.
The causalrelation between the content of one argument of the relation and some implicit even-tuality (the expectation created based on the content of the argument) and the contentof another causal relation, that between the eventuality described in second argumentand its implicit cause.
This second causal relation picks an element of the causal com-plex that we would normally assume to hold and challenges it, hence the notion ofdefeasible causality.This work illustrates the mutual benefit that corpus annotation and formal analysiscan provide to each other.
Corpus examples constitute a forcing function on the formalanalysis; definitions must accommodate the complexities one finds in the real world.On the other hand, all good annotation rests on solid theory, and formal analysis canhelp in the adjudication of difficult examples.
The particular analysis we give in thispaper for the concession relation can clarify issues that arise in annotation, and canalso form the basis for recognizing these relations using a knowledge-rich inferencingsystem.ReferencesAchinstein, P. (1965).
?Defeasible?
Problems.
The Journal of Philosophy 62(21),629?633.Asher, N. (1993).
Reference to Abstract Objects.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Bach, E. (1981).
On Time, Tense, and Aspect: An Essay in English Metaphysics.
InP.
Cole (Ed.
), Radical Pragmatics, pp.
63?81.
Academic Press, New York.Bell, J.
(1999).
Primary and secondary events.
In M. Thielscher (Ed.
), Proc.
of theIJCAI-99 Workshop on Nonmonotonic Reasoning, Action and Change, pp.
65?72.Bell, J.
(2003).
A common sense theory of causation.
In P. Blackburn, C. Ghidini,R.
Turner, and F. Giunchiglia (Eds.
), Modeling and Using Context: Fourth Interna-tional and Interdisciplinary Conference, Context 2003, Berlin, pp.
40?53.
Springer-Verlag.Refining the Meaning of Sense Labels in PDTB: ?Concession?
219Giordano, L. and C. Schwind (2004).
Conditional logic of actions and causation.Artificial Intelligence 157(1?2), 239?279.Giunchiglia, E., J. Lee, V. Lifschitz, N. McCain, and H. Turner (2004).
Nonmonotoniccausal theories.
Artificial Intelligence 153(1?2), 49?104.Hobbs, J.
(1983).
An Improper Treatment of Quantification in Ordinary English.
InProc.
of the 21st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Cambridge, Massachusetts, pp.
57?63.Hobbs, J.
(1995).
Monotone Decreasing Quantifiers in a Scope-Free Logical Form.
InK.
van Deemter and S. Peters (Eds.
), Semantic Ambiguity and Underspecification,CSLI Lecture Notes, pp.
55?76.
CSLI.Hobbs, J.
(1998).
The Logical Notation: Ontological Promiscuity.
In Discourse andInference, Chapter 2.Hobbs, J.
(2005).
Towards a Useful Notion of Causality for Lexical Semantics.
Jour-nal of Semantics 22(2), 181?209.Kayser, D. and F. Nouioua (2008).
From the Description of an Accident to its Causes.submitted to Artificial Intelligence.McCarthy, J.
(1977).
Epistemological Problems of Artificial Intelligence.
In Proc.of International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Cambridge, Mas-sachusetts, pp.
1038?1044.Miltsakaki, E., L. Robaldo, A. Lee, and A. Joshi (2008).
Sense Annotation in thePenn Discourse Treebank.
In Proc.
of Computational Linguistics and IntelligentText Processing, Volume 4919 of LNCS, pp.
275?286.
Springer.Prasad, R., N. Dinesh, A. Lee, E. Miltsakaki, L. Robaldo, A. Joshi, and B. Webber(2008).
The Penn Discourse Treebank 2.0.
In Proc.
of the 6th Int.
Conf.
on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.Prasad, R., E. Miltsakaki, N. Dinesh, A. Lee, A. Joshi, B. Webber, and L. Robaldo(2008).
The Penn Discourse Treebank 2.0.
Annotation Manual.
Technical ReportIRCS-06-01, IRCS Technical Report, Institute of Research in Cognitive Science,University of Pennsylvania.Shoham, Y.
(1990).
Nonmonotonic reasoning and causation.
Cognitive Science 14,213?252.Simon, H. (1991).
Nonmonotonic reasoning and causation: Comment.
CognitiveScience 49, 517?528.Webber, B. and A. Joshi (2003).
Anchoring a lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar fordiscourse.
In M. Stede, L. Wanner, and E. Hovy (Eds.
), Discourse Relations andDiscourse Markers: Proceedings of the Conference, pp.
86?92.Webber, B., A. Joshi, M. Stone, and A. Knott (2003).
Anaphora and discourse struc-ture.
Computational Linguistics 29(4), 545?587.
