Combining Word Sense andUsage for Modeling FrameSemanticsDiego De Cao1Danilo Croce1Marco Pennacchiotti2Roberto Basili11University of Rome Tor Vergata (Italy)2University of the Saarland (Germany)email: decao@info.uniroma2.itAbstractModels of lexical semantics are core paradigms in most NLP applica-tions, such as dialogue, information extraction and document understand-ing.
Unfortunately, the coverage of currently available resources (e.g.FrameNet) is still unsatisfactory.
This paper presents a largely applicableapproach for extending frame semantic resources, combining word senseinformation derived fromWordNet and corpus-based distributional infor-mation.
We report a large scale evaluation over the English FrameNet,and results on extending FrameNet to the Italian language, as the basis ofthe development of a full FrameNet for Italian.8586 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and Basili1 Introduction and Related WorkModels of lexical meaning are explicit or implicit basic components of any text pro-cessing system devoted to information extraction, question answering or dialogue.Several paradigms proposed for a variety of notions, such as word sense (Miller et al,1990) or frame semantics (Baker et al, 1998), have given rise to large scale resources,respectively WordNet and FrameNet.
Recent studies (e.g.
Shen and Lapata (2007))show that the use of FrameNet can potentially improve the performance of QuestionAnswering systems.
Yet, Shen and Lapata (2007) also point out that the low cov-erage of the current version of FrameNet significantly limits the expected boost inperformance.
Other studies have shown similar evidences for Recognizing TextualEntailment (RTE) (Clark et al, 2007; Burchardt et al, 2008): most examples of theRTE challenges corpora can be solved at the predicate-argument structure level, butFrameNet coverage is still a major problem.Approaches to (semi-)automatically acquire frame information are then today apriority to solve these problems.
Despite this, not many efforts have been paid so farin this direction.
Burchardt et al (2005) presented Detour, a system for predictingframe assignment of potential lexical units not covered by FrameNet, by using theparadigmatic information enclosed in WordNet.
Although the authors do not fullysolve the problem related to the fuzzy relationships between senses and frames, theypropose an empirical association measure for ranking frame candidates according tosense information as stored in WordNet.
To our knowledge, this is the only worktrying to bridge frame membership to referential properties of lexical senses.
Pitel(2006) presents a preliminary study on the applicability of semantic spaces and spacegeometrical transformations (namely, Latent Semantic Analysis) to expand FrameNet,but the investigation is too limited in scope to draw relevant conclusions.
Finally, Pad?et al (2008) propose a method to automatically label unknown semantic roles of eventnominalizations in FrameNet, but their method needs a large amount of annotatedverbal data.Another important limitation of FrameNet is the limited support to multilingual-ity, which is becoming a critical issue in real NLP applications.
In recent years,some efforts have focused on the manual adaptation of the English FrameNet to otherlanguages (e.g., German (Burchardt et al, 2006) and Spanish (Subirats and Petruck,2003)).
Unlike PropBank, FrameNet is in fact suitable to cross-lingual induction, asframes are mostly defined at the conceptual level, thus allowing cross-lingual interpre-tation.
Yet, all these efforts consist in manually defining frame linguistic knowledge(e.g.
lexical units) in the specific language, and in annotating a large corpus, thusrequiring a large human effort.
While attempts to automate the annotation processare quite promising (Pado and Lapata, 2007), they require the availability of a par-allel corpus, and leave open the issue of inducing the resource as a whole in a newlanguage.In this work, we investigate novel methods for automatically expanding the EnglishFrameNet, and supporting the creation of new ones in other languages (namely Ital-ian), thus tackling the abovementioned problems of coverage and multilinguality.
Theproposed methods are inspired by the basic hypothesis that FrameNet can be automat-ically modeled by a fruitful interaction between advanced distributional techniques,and paradigmatic properties derived from WordNet.Combining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 87In particular, in this paper we focus on the application of such methods to studythe semantics of the core elements of FrameNet, i.e.
the lexical units (hereafter LUs).Lexical units are predicates (nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc.)
that linguistically expressthe situation described by a frame.
Lexical units of the same frame share semanticarguments.
For example the frame KILLING has lexical units such as: assassin, blood-bath, fatal, massacre, kill, suicide.
These predicates share semantic arguments suchas KILLER, INSTRUMENT and VICTIM.
Our goal is to combine corpus distributionalevidence with WordNet information to supply three tasks: the induction of new LUsnot already in FrameNet (unknown LUs); the reduction of LUs polysemy by mappingthem to WordNet synsets; the translation of English LUs into Italian.The paper is organized as follows.
In Section 2 we describe our FrameNet paradig-matic and distributional model, and we discuss how these two models can be com-bined in a single framework.
In Section 3 we analyze the applicability of these modelsto the three proposed experimental tasks, and discuss the results.
Finally, in Section 4we draw final conclusions and outline future work.2 Paradigmatic and distributional models of frame semanticsIn this section we describe our paradigmatic, distributional and combined models forrepresenting FrameNet.
The general goal of each of these three methods is to offera computational model of FrameNet.
In such a model, frames and LUs should havea specific computational representation (e.g.
vectors), and allow the computation ofsimilarity either among different LUs or between a frame and a LU.
Such model thusoffers explicit means to use FrameNet in a NLP task or to expand FrameNet, e.g.
byassigning unknown LUs to its most similar frame, or by mapping a LU to its properWordNet synset(s).
A key notion for these tasks is the definition of a principled andreliable semantic similarity measure sim to be applied to frames and LUs.2.1 Paradigmatic modelThe basic intuition behind our paradigmatic model is that knowledge about predicatesof a frame, through a (possibly limited) set of LUs, allows to detect the set of thesuitable WordNet senses able to evoke the same frame.
These senses are topologicallyrelated to (one or more) sub-hierarchies capturing the lexical semantics implicit in theframe.
We propose a weakly-supervised approach to discover these structures.
Themain idea is that frames correspond to specific sub-graphs of the WordNet hyponymyhierarchy, so that these latter can be used to predict frames valid for other LUs, notyet coded in FrameNet.
Figure 1 reports the WordNet sub-hierarchy covering theframe PEOPLE_BY_AGE: here, the frame?s nominal LUs {adult, adolescent, baby,boy, infant, kid, geezer, teenager, youngster, youth} are all represented with the sensescorrectly referring to the frame.
The correct senses (e.g.
sense 1 of youth out of its6 potential senses) are selected as they share most specific generalizations with theother LUs.
This graph can be intended as an ?explanation?
of the lexical semanticproperties characterizing the frame: future predictions about new LUs can be done onthe basis of the graph as a paradigmatic model for PEOPLE_BY_AGE.
We call such agraph the WordNet model of the frame.
As WordNet organizes nouns, verbs and otherparts-of-speech in different hierarchies, three independent WordNet models (one foreach part-of-speech) are created for each frame.88 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and BasiliFormally, given the set F of the LUs of a frame, a WordNet model is built aroundthe subset SF of WordNet synsets able to generalize the largest number of words inF1.Figure 1: The WordNet model for the frame People_by_Age as evoked by the set ofits nouns.
Sense numbers #n refer to WordNet 2.0The WordNet modelWNF(?,W ) of a frame F , is a graph(3) WNF(?,W ) =<W,SF ,LF ,h,simWN ,m >where: W ?
F are the subset of all LUs in F having the same part-of-speech ?
?
{verb,noun,ad jective}, SF is the subset of synsets in WN needed to generalize wordsw ?W ; LF ?
SF are the lexical senses of w ?W subsumed by SF ; h ?
SF ?SF is theprojection of the hyponymy relation of WN in SF ; m?W ?2LF is the lexical relationbetween words w ?W and synsets in LF ; simWN : SF ?
?
is a weighting function thatexpresses the relevance of each sense ?
?
SF for the frame, as it is represented by itswords in F .The model exemplified in Figure 1 isWNPeople_by_Age(noun, {adult, ..., youth}), where LF = {adult#1, adolescent#1, baby#1,boy#1, boy#2, boy#3, ..., youth#1} and the set SF corresponds to the sub-hierarchies dom-inated by the synsets #6026, #9622621, #9285271 and #9015843.The overall goal of computing the WordNet model is to determine the similarityfunction simWN : SF ?
?, expressing the relevance of a synset ?
?
SF as a goodrepresentative of a frame F .
This is what is hereafter referred to as the paradigmaticsimilarity model between words senses and frames.Paradigmatic Similarity measuresGiven the WordNet hierarchy separation on part-of-speaches, the similarity functionsimWN is independently defined for verbs, nouns and adjectives.1In the following, we will use the same notation for a frame F and for the set of its known lexical units,as in our approach we use LU membership as a basic definition of a frame.Combining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 89For nouns we adopt conceptual density (cd) (Agirre and Rigau, 1996; Basili et al,2004), a semantic similarity measure defined for word sense disambiguation tasks.The cd score for a sense ?
?
SF is the density of the WordNet sub-hierarchy rootedat ?
in representing the set of nouns in F .
The intuition behind this model is that thelarger is the number of all and only LUs in F that are generalized by ?, the betterit captures the lexical semantics intended by the frame.
Coarse generalizations (i.e.synsets higher in the hierarchy) are penalized, as they give rise to bushy hierarchies,covering too many words not in the target F .
The greedy algorithm proposed in Basiliet al (2004) selects the subset of synsets able to ?cover?
(i.e.
generalize) all the inputwords and characterized by the highest cd values.
The set of such synsets and theircorresponding sub-hierarchies forms a graph derived from a set of LUs F .
The resultis the WordNet model WNF for F , i.e.
the minimal subset of WordNet that explainsall (the possible) LUs in F with the maximally similar senses.Figure 1 shows that correct senses (e.g.
the sense 1 of youth out of the 6 potentialsenses) are generally detected and preserved in the model.
Irrelevant senses that donot share any common hypernym with other words in F are neglected.
Conceptualdensity scores can be used to rank individual senses as in the case of boy.Given a frame F , the above model can be naturally used to compute the similaritybetween a noun n /?
F and F .
This is particularly useful in LU induction task, as de-scribed in Section 3.1.
To do so, the similarity simWN(F,n) between n and F is derivedby computing the cd scores over the set F ?{n}.
The simWN(F,n) is the maximal cdof any synset ?n ?
SF that is also hypernym of a lexical sense of n. In the exam-ple, the noun boy would receive a score of 0.117 through the hypernym {child,kid},according to its third sense in WordNet 2.0 (?{son,boy}?
).As conceptual density can be only applied to nouns, when verbs v are consid-ered, we exploit the synonymy and co-hyponymy relations.
The following similaritysimWN(F,v) is computed:(4) simWN(F,v) =??
?1 iff ?K ?
F such that |K| > ?
AND?w ?
K w is a co-hyponym of v?
otherwiseFor adjectives, the similarity simWN(F,a), is computed on the basis of the syn-onymy relation, as follows:(5) simWN(F,a) =??
?1 iff ?w ?
F such thatw is a synonym of tw?
otherwiseThe overall model WNF is used to predict if a frame F is a correct situation for agiven unknownLU ul /?F (a noun, a verb or an adjective), whenever simWN(F,ul) > ?.This can be used as a frame predictor for a ul currently not foreseen in the Berkleydatabase but possibly very frequent in a specific corpus, as described in Section 3.1.2.2 Distributional modelThe distributional model is based on the intuition that FrameNet frames and LUs canbe modelled in a semantic space, where they are represented as distributional co-occurrence vectors computed over a corpus.
Such framework, it is possible to compute90 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and Basilithe similarity between a LU and a frame, by evaluating the distance of their vectors inthe space.Semantic spaces have been widely applied in several NLP tasks, ranging from in-formation retrieval to paraphrase rules extraction (Lin and Pantel, 2001).
The intuitionis that the meaning of a word can be described by the set of textual contexts in whichit appears (Distributional Hypothesis (Harris, 1964)), and that words with similar vec-tors are semantically related.
This distributional approach has been often claimed tosupport the language in use view on meaning.
Word space models (Sch?tze, 1993)have been shown to emphasize different aspects of lexical semantics: associative (i.e.topical) information between words, as well as paradigmatic information (i.e.
in ab-sentia) or syntagmatic information (i.e.
in presentia).In our setting, the goal is to leverage semantic spaces to capture the notion of frame?
i.e.
the property of ?being characteristic of a frame?.
To do so, we model a lexicalunit l as a vector ~l, whose dimensions represent the set of contexts of the semanticspace.
In our space, contexts are words appearing in a n-window of the lexical unit:such a space models a generic notion of semantic relatedness ?
i.e.
two LUs close inthe space are likely to be either in paradigmatic or syntagmatic relation (Pado, 2007;Sahlgren, 2006).
The overall semantic space is then represented by a matrix M, whoserows describe LUs and whose columns describe contexts.We reduce in dimensionality the matrix M by applying Singular Value Decom-position (SVD) (Landauer and Dumais, 1997), a decomposition process that createsan approximation of the original matrix, aiming to capture semantic dependenciesbetween source vectors, i.e.
contexts.
The original space is replaced by a lower di-mensional space Mk, called k-space in which each dimension is a derived concept.The matrix M is transformed in the product of three new matrices: U , S, and V suchthat M = USVT .
Truncating M to its first k dimensions means neglecting the leastmeaningful dimensions according to the original distribution.
Mk captures the samestatistical information in a new k-dimensional space, where each dimension is a linearcombination of some original features.
These newly derived features may be thoughtof as artificial concepts, each one representing an emerging meaning component as alinear combination of many different words (or contexts).The SVD reduction has two main advantages.
First, the overall computational costof the model is reduced, as similarities are computed on a space with much fewerdimensions.
Secondly, it allows to capture second-order relations among LUs, thusimproving the quality of the similarity measure.Once the vectors~l for all FrameNet LUs are available in the reduced space, it isalso possible to derive a vectorial representation ~F of a whole frame F .
Intuitively,~F should be computed as the geometric centroid of the vectors of its lexical units.Unfortunately, such a simple approach is prone to errors due to the semantic natureof frames.
Indeed, even if the LUs of a given frame describe the same particularsituation, they can typically do that in different type of contexts.
For example, theLUs assassinate and holocaust evoke the KILLING frame, but are likely to appear invery different linguistic contexts.
Then, the vectors of the two words are likely to bedistant in the space.
Consequently, different regions of the semantic space may actas good representations for the same frame: these regions corresponds to clusters ofLUs which appear in similar contexts (e.g.
{holocaust,extermination,genocide} andCombining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 91{suicide,euthanasia}).We then adopt a clustering approach to model frames: each frame is representedby the set of clustersCF of its lexical units.
ClustersCF are composed by lexical unitsclose in the space and can have different size.
They are computed by using an adaptive(unsupervised) algorithm, based on k-means (Heyer et al, 1999; Basili et al, 2007),applied to all known LUs of F .
Each cluster c ?
CF is represented in the space by avector~c, computed as the geometric centroid of all its lexical units.In this framework, it is then possible to compute the similarity between an unknownLU ul and a frame F , as the the cosine distance between the vector ~ul and the closestcentroid ~c ?CF :(6) simLSF (F,ul) = argmaxc?CF simcos(~ul, ~CF )Given this measure, it is finally possible to assign an unknown ul to one or more ofthe most similar frames.2.3 Combining paradigmatic and distributional modelsIn order to be effective in a NLP task, a model of lexical meaning should typically ac-count for both the paradigmatic and distributional similarity.
The following definitionthus hold:(7) ?
(F,w) = ?
(D(w,F),P(w,F))where ?
(F,w) is the association between a word w and a frame F , ?
is a com-position operator applied to the corpus-driven distributional measure D(F,w) andto the paradigmatic similarity P(F,w).
Notice that in this work simLSF (F,w) andsimWN(F,w) are used as models of D(F,w) and P(F,W ), respectively.
Different com-binations ?
are here possible, from simple algebraic operations (e.g.
linear combina-tions) to more complex algorithmics.
We will explore this latter issue in section 3.1where the evaluation of a combined model for LU induction is reported.3 ExperimentsIn this section we experiment our proposed models on three different tasks: induc-tion of new LUs (Section 3.1), mapping LUs to WordNet synsets (Section 3.2), andautomatic acquisition of LUs in Italian (Section 3.3).
In all the experiments we useFrameNet 1.3, consisting of 795 frames and about 10,196 LUs (7,522 unique LUs), assource information and as a gold standard.
As regardsWordNet, we adopt version 2.0,with all mappings from 1.6 applied through the Italian component of MultiWordNet(Pianta et al, 2008)2For computing vectors in the distributional model, we use the TREC-2002 Vol.2corpus, consisting of about 110 million words for English.
The contexts for the de-scription of LUs are obtained as ?5 windows around each individual LU occurrence:each word occurring in this windows is retained as a potential context 3.
A resultingset of about 30,000 contexts (i.e.
individual words) has been obtained.
The vector~l2http://www.lsi.upc.es/~nlp/tools/download-map.php3For all occurrences of feature words, the POS tag has been neglected in order to verify the applicabilityof the model even with a shallow preprocessing.
Words occurring less than 10 times in all windows areneglected in our experiments.92 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and Basilirepresenting an individual LU is derived by computing pointwise mutual informationbetween the LU and each context.
The SVD reduction has been run over the result-ing 7.522?
30,000 matrix, with a dimension cut of k = 50, other values resulting innon-statistically different outcomes.Experiments for Italian are run against the italian component of the Europarliamentcorpus (Koehn, 2002), made of about 1 million sentences for about 36 millions tokens,for which about 87,000 contexts are used for the targeted LUs.
Also for Italian adimension cut of k = 50 has been applied.3.1 Lexical Unit inductionThe goal of this experiment is to tackle the FrameNet low coverage problem, by check-ing if our models are good in expanding FrameNet with new LUs.
Formally, we de-fine LU induction as the task of assigning a generic unknown lexical unit ul not yetpresent in the FrameNet database to the correct frame(s).
As the number of framesis very large, the task is intuitively hard to solve.
A further complexity regards mul-tiple assignments.
Lexical units are sometimes ambiguous and can then be mappedto more than one frame (for example the word tea could map both to FOOD and SO-CIAL_EVENT).
Also, even unambiguous words can be assigned to more than oneframe ?
e.g.
child maps to both KINSHIP and PEOPLE_BY_AGE.In the experiment, we simulate the induction task by executing a leave-one-outprocedure over the set of existing FrameNet LUs, as follows.
First, we remove a LUfrom all its original frames.
Then, we ask our model to reassign it to the most similarframe(s), according to its similarity measure.
We repeat this procedure for all lexicalunits and compute the accuracy in the assignment.We experiment all three models: distributional, paradigmatic and the combinedone.
In particular, the combined model is applied as follows.
First, for each frameF we create its cluster set CF in the LSA space.
Then, at each iteration of the leave-one-out a different LU ul is removed from FrameNet, and the following steps areperformed:?
We recompute the clusters for all frames Ful which contain ul, by neglectingul.4?
We compute the similarity simLFS(F,ul) between ul and all frames.
Duringthe computation we empirically impose a threshold: if a cluster c ?
C has asimilarity cos(c,ul) < 0.1 (i.e.
poorly similar to ul), it is neglected.
Finally, allsuggested frames are ranked according to simLFS(F,ul).?
For each frame F we also compute the similarity simWN(F,ul) according to theparadigmatic model, by neglecting ul in the computation of the WordNet modelof each frame.?
We combine the distributional and paradigmatic similarities following the gen-eral Equation 7, by applying the following specific equation:(8) sim(F,ul) = simLFS(F,ul) ?
simWN(F,ul)4Note that all appearances of ul in the database are neglected (irrespectively from its POS tag, e.g.march as a verb vs. march as a noun)Combining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 93Table 1: The Gold Standard for the test over English and ItalianEnglish Number of frames: 220Number of LUs: 5042Most likely frames: Self_Motion (p=0.015), Clothing (p=0.014)Italian Number of frames: 10Number of LUs: 112Frames: Buildings, Clothing, Killing, Kinship, Make_noiseMedical_conditions, Natural_Features, Possession, Self_Motion, TextNote, that in practice sim(F,ul) acts as a re-ranking function of the previouslyobtained clusters CF?
We execute LU induction, by mapping ul to the most similar k frames accordingto sim(F,ul).EvaluationWe evaluate the model by computing the accuracy over the FrameNet gold standard.Accuracy is defined as the fraction of LUs that are correctly re-assigned to the originalframe during the leave-one-out.
Accuracy is computed at different levels k: a LU iscorrectly assigned if its gold standard frame appears among the best-k frames rankedby the model.
We experimented both on English (using FrameNet version 1.3), and onItalian.
Since an Italian FrameNet is not available, we manually created a gold stan-dard of 11 frames.
Overall statistics on the data are reported in Table 1: the number offrames and LUs analysed is slightly reduced wrt FrameNet as we ignored the predicatewords absent from the targeted corpus (e.g.
moo in MAKE_NOISE) and multiwordsexpressions as it was not possible to locate them unambiguously in the corpus (e.g.shell out in COMMERCE_PAY).
Also, in order to get reliable distributional statistics,we filter out LUs occurring less than 50 times in the corpus, and frames with less than10 LUs.For all the experiments, the parameter ?
in the Equation 4 of the paradigmaticmodelhas been set to 2.
As a baseline, we adopt a model predicting as best-k frames the mostlikely ones in FrameNet ?
i.e.
those containing the highest number of LUs.Results for English are reported in Figure 2.As shown, all methods improve significantly the baseline whereas accuracy valuesnaturally improve along increasing values for k. The performance of the paradigmaticmodel are significantly high even for very small k. The best model is given by thecombination of distributional and paradigmatic similarity, producing significant im-provements wrt the paradigmatic model alone.Results for Italian are reported in Figure 3.
The leave-one-out test has been appliedas for English, but over a manually compiled set of 527 LUs for the 11 frames usedas gold standard.
These LUs have been obtained via direct translation of the EnglishFramenet LUs.
In order to evaluate LUs for which a consistent distributional modelwas available, only those occurring at least 50 times in the Europarliament corpus havebeen selected: this amounts to a total number of 112 Italian LUs.
The paradigmatic94 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and BasiliFigure 2: Accuracy of the leave-one-out over the English FrameNet 1.3model for the test has been obtained using as source the LUs in the English FrameNet.As the computation of the simWN(F,w) depends only on the hyponymy hierarchy, foreach Italian noun n the conceptual density computation over the set {n}?F is applied,where F is given by the LUs in English.
The interlingual index is here used to mapevery n to its lexical senses (i.e.
synsets) in the English WN.
Then, the computationof the greedy algorithm is applied exactly as in the monolingual process.
The sameapproach has been used for verbs (Equation 4) and adjectives (Equation 5).Although the limited scale of the experiment (only 11 frames are targeted), the ev-idence are similar as for the test over English: the combined model is always superiorto the individual ones.
High levels of accuracy are achieved, although the ?most likelyframe?
baseline is much higher than for the English test.
Similar trends are also ob-served for the paradigmatic model, reaching a plateau for smaller values of k. Overallresults indicate that reliable predictions can be obtained for unknown LUs also whena whole Italian FrameNet is not yet available.
Our method can then be used to supportlexicographers in the task of building a new FrameNet, in the specific stage of addingLUs to frames.Results suggest that the WordNet models derived from the English LUs are validpredictors also for Italian words, as confirmed by the experiments in the next sections.3.2 Assessing WordNet models of FramesThe goal of the experiment is to validate the notion of WordNet model of a frame asderived through the method discussed in Section 2.1.
Formally, given the set of allpossible WordNet senses Sl of a given LU l, we aim at mapping each sense s ?
Sl tothe correct frame f ?
Fl , where Fl is the set of frames in which l appears.
If a framecannot be found for a given sense, the sense is simply neglected.For example, the LU burn has 15 senses in WordNet and it belongs to 3 frames:EMOTION_HEAT, EXPERIENCE_BODILY_HARM and PERCEPTION_BODY.
Figure 2Combining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 95Figure 3: Accuracy of the leave-one-out tests over 11 frames in Italianreports some of the possible correct mapping between senses and frames.
Othersenses, such as ?destroy by fire?
cannot be mapped to any existing frame.By creating such an automatic mapping we achieve three goals.
First, we disam-biguate FrameNet lexical units.
Second, we enrich WordNet synsets with new infor-mation ?
i.e.
a computational description of the situations they refer to, as repre-sented in FrameNet.
Third, we derive a language independent model of frames basedon WordNet synsets.The mapping targeted by the experiment is carried out according to the discussionin Section 2.1.
The WordNet model of a frame F for nouns is the outcome of thegreedy cd computation over the set F of all frame?s LUs: given a LU, a sense isaccepted if it is a member of the set LF in the model.
For verbs and adjectives all co-hyponyms and synonyms used in Equations 4 and 5 are included in LF .
The procedurefor developing a WordNet model is completely automatic, this avoiding the costs ofmanual annotation.5Note that our approach is easily portable to languages different from English.
In-deed, the WordNet hierarchy is the backbone of sense repositories in other languages(as for example in MultiWordNet (Pianta et al, 2008)).
The English modelsWNF canbe then interpreted in a different language, by applying the interlingual indexes to allsynsets LF in WNF .
The corresponding sets of synonyms are natural candidates asLUs in the target language.EvaluationIn this experiment, in order to account for data sparseness we reduce the dataset intwo ways.
First, we neglect low frequency lexical units: LUs occurring less than 50times in the corpus are not considered.
Second, we exclude frames that have less than5In this experiment we focus on verbs and nouns, since they are core predicates expressing the targetedsituation in sentences.96 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and BasiliTable 2: Mapping between WordNet senses and frames for verb burn, as induced bythe paradigmatic methodSynset Evoked FRAME Co-Hyponyms WordNet Definition1775952 EMOTION_HEAT chafe, fume, smolder Feel strong emotion, especially anger orpassion; ?She was burning with anger?
;?He was burning to try out his newskies?189569 EXPERIENCE_BODILY_HARM break, bruise, hurt,injureBurn with heat, fire, or radiation; ?Theiron burnt a hole in my dress?2059143 PERCEPTION_BODY itch, sting Cause a sharp or stinging pain or dis-comfort; ?The sun burned his face?10 LUs.
This leaves us with 220 frames, involving 2,200 nominal LUs and 2,180verbal LUs.
Table 3 reports overall statistics.
Over the 2,200 nouns and 2,180 verbsexamined, the vast majority is covered by WordNet (fourth row).
For these words, alarge set of lexical senses exist in WordNet giving an average polysemy between 3 and6 senses per word (sixth row).
Our paradigmatic method is able to significantly reducethe average polysemy: only 1.79 senses per verb survive among the initial 5.29, whileonly 1.29 among the 3.62 are retained for nouns.
Moreover, the number of sensesused to entirely represent a frame in a paradigmatic model (i.e.
SF ) is about 3,512 and2,718 respectively for nouns and verbs, as averaged across all frames.
An example ofthe mapping produced by our method is reported in Table 2.The above statistics suggest that a consistent reduction in average polysemy can beobtained when the context of a frame is used to model semantic similarity among LUsin WordNet.Table 3: Statistics on nominal and verbal senses in the paradigmatic model of theEnglish FrameNetNouns VerbsTargeted Frames 220 220Involved LUs 2,200 2,180Average LUs per frame 10.0 9.91LUs covered by WordNet 2,187 2,169Number of Evoked Senses 7,443 11,489Average Polysemy 3.62 5.97Represented words (i.e.
?FWF ) 2,145 1,270Average represented LUs 9.94 9.85Active Lexical Senses (LF ) 3,095 2,282Average Active Lexical Senses (|LF |/|WF |) per word over frames 1.27 1.79Active synsets (SF ) 3,512 2,718Average Active synsets (|SF |/|WF |) per word over frames 1.51 2.19We evaluated the quality of the above process through manual validation.
Given aframe, for each LU we provided two annotators with the list of all its WordNet senses,and asked to select those that correctly map to FrameNet.
Then, we evaluated ourautomatic mapping method by computing standard Precision and Recall.
In all, weCombining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 97analysed all 786 senses of 306 LUs in 4 frames (i.e.
KILLING, PEOPLE_BY_AGE,STATEMENT and CLOTHING).
The Cohen?s kappa, computed over two frames (i.e.KILLING and PEOPLE_BY_AGE for 192 senses of 77 words) results in a 0.90 inter-annotator agreement: this indicates that senses and frames are highly correlated andtheir mapping is consistent and motivated, as Table 2 suggests.The system is considered to accept a sense ?
for a given frame F iff the conceptualdensity score characterizing such a sense is positive, i.e.
the ?
?
LF .
Our methodobtained a Precision of 0.803 and a Recall of 0.79 (F-measure=0.796).
Among the 786senses tested, 85 false positives and 92 false negatives have been found: 346 senseshave been correctly accepted and 263 true negatives have been rejected by the sytem.It must be also noticed that the conceptual density scores obtained are well correlatedwith correct senses.
If senses of a word with significantly lower cd scores than othersare removed from the set LF of a frame, a significant improvement in precision canbe obtained.
For example, tie in CLOTHING has 9 senses, of which 3 are proposed bythe system, corresponding to 1 true positives, 2 false positives and 6 true negatives.It is interesting to note that the true positive sense (i.e.
{necktie, tie} as ?a neckwearconsisting of a long narrow piece of material worn ...?)
has a cd score of 0.492, while0.018 is the score of all the three false positives (i.e.
sense #5 {link,linkup tie, tie-in}as ?a fastener that serves to join or link?
; sense #8 {tie, railroad tie, crosstie, sleeper}as ?one of the cross braces that support the rails on a railway track?
; sense #9 {tie} as?a cord with which something is tied?).
A careful selection policy can be thus easilydevised to deal with such skewed preference distributions and achieve higher valuesof precision by neglecting lower preferences.These results show that the proposed frame WordNet model is not only effectivein reducing the average lexical polysemy (as shown in Table 3), but it is also a ratheraccurate method to capture the lexical semantics implied by frames.
The achievedlevel of accuracy justifies the adoption of the model defined in (3) for the developmentof FrameNets in languages other than English.3.3 Development of an Italian FrameNetIn this section we explore the use of our English paradigmatic model to automaticallysupport the building process of a FrameNet in a different language, namely Italian.
Inparticular, we leverage the model WNF for the English language to induce new LUsfor F in the new language.
To do so, we proceed as follows.For each frame F in FrameNet we first generate the WordNet model for EnglishWNF using all the LUs available in the database, as discussed in Section 2.1.
Then,we use an interlingual index (e.g.
MultiWordNet) to obtain words in the new languagecorresponding to lexical senses LF in the model WNF .
Each of these translated LUl is a cross-lingual synonym of at least a sense in SF and is a candidate LUs for theframe in the new language, since it satisfies simWN(F, l) > ?.EvaluationIn the experiment we focus on Italian, for which a full FrameNet is not yet available,though a manual building process is currently underway (Tonelli and Pianta, 2008).As interlingual index we adopt the Italian component of MultiWordNet (Pianta et al,2008).
As shown in Table 4, the WordNet model allows to generate approximately15,000 Italian LUs, partitioned in 6,600 nouns, 8,300 verbs and 130 adjectives.98 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and BasiliTable 4: Number of generated Lexical UnitsNumber of LUsNouns 6611Verbs 8332Adjectives 129Total 15072To evaluate the quality of the translated LUs we performed two different tests.
Inthe first test, we collected the 776 most frequent words in the Europarliament corpus,including many generic nouns and verbs, such as produrre (to_produce/make), fare(to_make/fabricate), avere (to_have).
Then we manually validated all the 1,500 sys-tem decisions regarding these words.
A decision is accepted if the frame suggestedfor the word is correct for at least one of its senses.
Accuracy is computed as the per-centage of the correct system decisions over the number of validated cases.
For somewords no frame was predicted, as they were not in Wordnet or as no Wordnet modelwas able to correctly generalize them.
The percentage of words receiving at least onecorrect prediction, i.e.
assigned to at least one frame accepted by the annotators, ishere called Coverage, and reported with the accuracy scores in the second line of Ta-ble 5.
The above test was repeated also for more specific words, with a number ofoccurrences in the corpus ranging from 100 to 200.
Results are reported in the thirdline of Table 5.
These outcomes are surprisingly good especially considering that thecomputation of the individual simWN(F, l) scores is fully automatic.Table 5: Manual validation of the italian LUs generated through WordNetFrequency Numb.
of Numb.
ofRange Test pairs Words Acc.
Cov.
[722;55,000] 1,500 776 0.79 93.0%[100;200] 558 357 0.87 94.3%In a second test, the results generated by our method were compared against thewords of the oracle manually developed for the experiment in Section 3.1.
In thiscase, the predictions of the method about frames and words are compared with theoracle.
As no filter has been here applied with respect to the corpus, all the 527< LU,Frame > pairs in the manually created oracle have been used6, although only437 pairs were represented through the MultiWordNet resources.
The system wasnot able to decide for 71 words, and produced wrong guesses for 49 words: 317correct guesses are thus produced.
The results is a Precision of 0.87 and a Recall of0.72.
The recall value, lower than the coverage observed in the previous test, is alsoby a significant generative effect: the method discovers a number of new entries notaccounted for in the oracle.6Notice that no LU was multiply assigned to different frames in the oracle, so that the number of predi-cate words here is exactly the number of different pairs.Combining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 99Table 6: Excerpt of the Italian LUs in four different framesFRAME FRAME definition Italian LUsBUILDINGS Words which name permanentfixed structures forming anenclosure and providing pro-tection from the elementsautorimessa, cuccia, casolare,casotto, dependance, masseria,palazzina, ...CLOTHING Anything that people conven-tionally wearcappotto, calzetta, cami-cia_da_notte, duepezzi, ...SELF_MOTION The Self mover, a living being,moves under its own power in adirected fashionannaspare, arrancare, buttarsi,claudicare, giro, ...TEXT An entity that contains linguis-tic, symbolic information on aTopic, created by an Author atthe Time of creationarringa, articolo_di_fondo,canzonetta, conto, polizza,vademecum, ...Typical new LUs introduced in the oracle are words not accounted for in the En-glish Framenet, as reported in Table 6.
The table shows that most of the new guessesof the system are indeed highly plausible.
They represent widely used dialectal forms(e.g.
masseria in the frame BUILDING), jargon (e.g.
duepezzi in CLOTHING), techni-cal terms (e.g.
polizza in TEXT) and specific nouns (e.g.
autorimessa in BUILDINGS).Although it is certainly questionable if words like articolo_di_fondo (i.e.
main articlein a newspaper) are worth to be considering as LUs for the frame TEXT, it is clear thatif the application domain requires frame-like information, the presented model (evenonly the paradigmatic association here discussed) provides an effective tool for fastand robust prototyping.
Notice that the low Recall (only 0.60 of the oracle words arecorrectly addressed), can be compensated by combining paradigmatic and distribu-tional similarity (Equation 8), as experiments reported in Figure 3 suggest.
We leavethis last point as a future work.4 ConclusionsWe presented a combined model for representing frame semantics through paradig-matic and distributional evidence.
We reported three experiments, which indicate pos-sible application scenarios of these models.
First, the combination of the presentedmodels has been applied to extend FrameNet in a LU induction task, for English andItalian.
In both cases the evaluation has shown that the combination of the two modelsachieves better performance against their independent uses, and that the level of accu-racy is high enough to support lexicographers in the task of building FrameNets.
In asecond experiment, we showed that a strong association exists between lexical senses,as defined by WordNet, and the frame?s lexical units in FrameNet.
Its automatic de-tection, as proposed in this paper, results in a significant reduction of the polysemy ofLUs and in a highly accurate selection of those lexical senses semantically related tothe situations represented by a frame.
Finally, we demonstrated that this paradigmaticinformation can be used to develop a FrameNet resource in another language.
For100 De Cao, Croce, Pennacchiotti, and BasiliItalian, we automatically generated a very large and accurate set of 15,000 LUs.The overall framework has encouraged us to develop a robust toolbox for the largescale acquisition of FrameNet-like lexicons in different domains and languages.
Thetool will be made publicly available for research studies in this area.
Future work is ongoing on the adoption of richer models for Framenet, able to take into account moreevidence than LUs, such as frame elements and syntagmatic information.
Moreover,the use of the derived space as a model for the recognition of frames in free-texts isexpected to speed-up the development of a large collection of annotated sentences forthe Italian language.ReferencesAgirre, E. and G. Rigau (1996).
Word sense disambiguation using conceptual density.In Proceedings of COLING-96, Copenhagen, Denmark.Baker, C. F., C. J. Fillmore, and J.
B. Lowe (1998).
The Berkeley FrameNet project.In Proceedings of COLING-ACL, Montreal, Canada.Basili, R., M. Cammisa, and F. Zanzotto (2004).
A semantic similarity measure forunsupervised semantic disambiguation.
In Proceedings of LREC-04, Lisbon, Por-tugal.Basili, R., D. D. Cao, P. Marocco, and M. Pennacchiotti (2007).
Learning selectionalpreferences for entailment or paraphrasing rules.
In Proceedings of RANLP 07.Burchardt, A., K. Erk, and A. Frank (2005).
A wordnet detour to framenet.
In Pro-ceedings of the GLDV 2005 GermaNet II Workshop, Bonn, Germany.Burchardt, A., K. Erk, A. Frank, A. Kowalski, S. Pado, and M. Pinkal (2006).
Thesalsa corpus: a german corpus resource for lexical semantics.
In Proceedings ofthe 5th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, Genova,Italy.Burchardt, A., M. Pennacchiotti, S. Thater, and M. Pinkal (2008).
Assessing theimpact of frame semantics on textual entailment.
Journal of Natural LanguageEngineering (to appear).Clark, P., P. Harrison, J. Thompson, W. Murray, J. Hobbs, and C. Fellbaum (2007,June).
On the Role of Lexical and World Knowledge in RTE3.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL-PASCAL Workshop on Textual Entailment and Paraphrasing, Prague, pp.54?59.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Harris, Z.
(1964).
Distributional structure.
In J. J. Katz and J.
A. Fodor (Eds.
), ThePhilosophy of Linguistics, New York.
Oxford University Press.Heyer, L., S. Kruglyak, and S. Yooseph (1999).
Exploring expression data: Identifi-cation and analysis of coexpressed genes.
Genome Research 9, 1106?1115.Koehn, P. (2002).
Europarl: A multilingual corpus for evaluation of machine transla-tion.
Draft.Combining Word Sense and Usage for Modeling Frame Semantics 101Landauer, T. and S. Dumais (1997).
A solution to plato?s problem: The latent se-mantic analysis theory of acquisition, induction and representation of knowledge.Psychological Review 104, 211?240.Lin, D. and P. Pantel (2001).
DIRT-discovery of inference rules from text.
In Proceed-ings of the ACM Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD-01),San Francisco, CA.Miller, G., R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum, D. Gross, and K. Miller.
(1990).
An on-linelexical database.
International Journal of Lexicography 13(4), 235?312.Pado, S. (2007).
Cross-Lingual Annotation Projection Models for Role-Semantic In-formation, Volume 21 of Saarbr?cken Dissertations in Computational Linguisticsand Language Technology.
Saarland University.Pado, S. and M. Lapata (2007).
Dependency-based construction of semantic spacemodels.
Computational Linguistics 33(2), 161?199.Pad?, S., M. Pennacchiotti, and C. Sporleder (2008).
Semantic role assignment forevent nominalisations by leveraging verbal data.
In Proceedings of COLING 2008,Manchester, UK.Pianta, E., L. Bentivogli, and C. Girardi (2008).
MultiWordNet: Developing analigned multilingual database.
In Proceedings of the 1st International GlobalWordNet Conference, Marrakech, Morocco, pp.
293?302.Pitel, G. (2006).
Using bilingual lsa for framenet annotation of french text fromgeneric resources.
In Workshop on Multilingual Semantic Annotation: Theory andApplications, Saarbr?ijcken, Germany.Sahlgren, M. (2006).
The Word-Space Model.
Ph.
D. thesis, Department of Linguis-tics, Stockholm University.Sch?tze, H. (1993).
Word space.
In S. Hanson, J. Cowan, and C. Giles (Eds.
), Ad-vances in Neural Information Processing Systems 5.
MorganKaufmann Publishers.Shen, D. and M. Lapata (2007).
Using semantic roles to improve question answer-ing.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing and on Computational Natural Language Learning, Prague, pp.
12?21.Subirats, C. and M. Petruck (2003).
Surprise!
Spanish FrameNet!
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Frame Semantics at the XVII.
International Congress of Linguists,Prague.Tonelli, S. and E. Pianta (2008).
Frame Information Transfer from English to Italian.In Proceedings of LREC 2008, Marrakech, Morocco.
