BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 100?101,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsA preliminary approach to recognize generic drug names by combiningUMLS resources and USAN naming conventionsIsabel Segura-Bedmar Paloma Mart?nez Doaa SamyComputer Sciences Department Computer Sciences Department Linguistic DepartmentCarlos III University of Madrid Carlos III University of Madrid Cairo UniversityAvd.
Universidad, 30, Legan?s,28911, Madrid, SpainAvd.
Universidad, 30, Legan?s,28911, Madrid, SpainEgyptisegura@inf.uc3m.es pmf@inf.uc3m.es dsamy@cu.edu.egAbstractThis paper presents a system1 for drug nameidentification and classification in biomedicaltexts.1 IntroductionNumerous studies have tackled gene and proteinnames recognition (Collier et al 2002), (Tanabeand Wilbur, 2002).
Nevertheless, drug names havenot been widely addressed (Rindflesch et al,2000).Automating the process of new drugs recognitionand classification is a challenging task.
With therapidly changing vocabulary, new drugs areintroduced while old ones are made obsolete.Though the terminological resources are frequentlyupdated, they can not follow the accelerated paceof the changing terminology.Drug receives three distinct names: the chemicalname, the generic (or nonproprietary) name, andthe brand (or trademark) name.
The U.S. AdoptedName (USAN) Council establishes specificnomenclature rules for naming generic drugs.These rules rely on the use of affixes that classifydrugs according to their chemical structure,indication or mechanism of action.
For example,analgesics substances can receive affixes such as-adol-, -butazone, -fenine, -eridine and ?fentanil.In the present work, we focus, particulary, on theimplementation of a set of 531 affixes approved by1 This work has been partially supported by the projects: FIT-350300-2007-75 (Semantic Interoperability in ElectronicHealth Care) and TIN2007-67407-C03-01 (BRAVO:Advanced Multimodal and Multilingual Question Answering).the USAN Council and published in 20072.
Theaffixes allow a specific classification of drugs onpharmacological families, which ULMS SemanticNetWork is unable to provide.2 The SystemThe system consists of four main modules: a basictext processing module, WordNet look-up module,UMLS look-up module and the USAN rulesmodule, as shown in Figure 1.A corpus of 90 medical abstracts was compiled forthe experiment.
For the basic processing of theabstracts, GATE3 architecture is used.
This textprocessing provides sentence segmentation,tokenization and POS tagging.
Tokens whichreceive a noun or proper noun POS tag areextracted.The nouns found on WordNet are discarded andthose which are not found in WordNet are lookedup in the UMLS Metathesaurus.
If a noun is foundin UMLS, it is tagged with its correspondingsemantic types as assigned by UMLS.
A subset ofthese nouns is tagged as ?drug?
if their semantictypes are ?Pharmacological Substance?
or?Antibiotic?.
Finally, nouns which have not beenfound in UMLS are tagged as ?unknown?.The list of nouns tagged as ?drug?
is passed to therule module to detect their pharmacologicalfamilies according to the affixes.
In addition, therule module processes the list of ?unknown?
nounswhich are not found in UMLS to check thepresence of affixes, and thereby, of possible drugs.3 Preliminary results2 http://www.ama-assn.org/ama1/pub/upload/mm/365/usan_stem_list.pdfAccessed January 20083 http://www.gate.ac.uk/100A manual evaluation by a domain4 expert wascarried out.
The list of nouns not found inWordNet contained 1885 initial candidates.
Thisinitial list is looked up in UMLS and 93.4% ofthem (1761) is linked with some concepts ofUMLS.
The UMLS module recognized 1400nouns as pharmacological substances orantibiotics.
The rest of nouns, 361, are detected byUMLS but neither as pharmacological substancenor as antibiotics.The expert manually evaluated the set of nounsdetected by UMLS as pharmacological substancesor antibiotics (1400).
Evaluation showed that only1100 were valid drugs.Figure 1 System ArchitectureThe list of nouns (124) which have not been foundin UMLS are processed by the rule module todetect new candidate drugs not included in UMLS.This module only detects 17 candidate drugs.
Themanual evaluation showed that 7 of them werevalid drugs and the rest of nouns are biomedicalconcepts not included in UMLS.
Some of thesedrugs are Mideplanin, Tomopenem, Elvitegravir,and so on.
The rest of nouns neither detected bythe UMLS module nor by the rules module, 106,were also validated by the expert in order toestimate the overall coverage of our approach.
Theevaluation of these nouns shows that only 7 ofthem are valid drugs, however, the rest of thenouns are named entities of the general domain(organization, person names or cities) orbiomedical concepts.
Introducing a module ofgeneric NER should decrease the noise caused bysuch entities.4 The authors are grateful to Maria Bedmar Segura, Managerof the Drug Information Center, Mostoles University Hospital,for her valuable assistance in the evaluation of the system.Finally, precision and recall of the overall systemcombining UMLS and rules were calculated.
Thesystem achieved 78% of precision and 99.3% ofrecall3.1 The classification in pharmacologicalfamiliesOnce processed by the rule module, 73.8% of thecandidate drugs recognised by UMLS were alsoclassified in pharmacological families by theUSAN naming rules.
Expert?s evaluation of therule-based classification showed that rulesachieved 89% precision.
Short affixes such as ?ol,?pin and -ox are responsible of the wrongclassifications.
Thus, additional clues are necessaryto detect these drug families.4 Some ConclusionsAs a preliminary approach, it is a first step towardsa useful Information Extraction System in the fieldof Pharmacology.
Though evaluation reveals thatrules alone are not feasible enough in detectingdrugs, but they help to improve the coverage.
Inaddition, rules provide a drug classification inpharmacological families.
Such classification is anadded value in the development of NLPapplications within the pharmacological domain.For future work, the approach will be extended toaddress additional information aboutpharmacologic classes included in manybiomedical terminologies integrated in the UMLSsuch as MeSH or SNOMED.Future work will also target a wider coverage and abigger set of drug types through including moreaffixes, detecting complex entities (multi-words),detecting synonyms, resolving acronyms andambiguities as well as using contextual informationto disambiguate the correct semantic type of eachterm occurring in the texts.ReferencesCollier N, Takeuchi K. 2004.
Comparison of characterleveland part of speech features for name recognition in bio-medical texts:423?
35.Rindflesch, T.C., Tanabe,L., Weinstein,J.N.
and Hunter,L.2000.
EDGAR: extraction of drugs, genes and relationsfrom the biomedical literature.
Pac.
Symp.
Biocomput.
5,517?528Tanabe, L. y Wilbur, W.J.
2002.
Tagging gene and proteinnames in biomedical text.
Bioinformatics 18, 1124?1132101
