Using Spatial Reference Frames to Generate Grounded TextualSummaries of Georeferenced DataRoss Turner, Somayajulu Sripada and Ehud ReiterDept of Computing Science,University of Aberdeen, UK{rturner,ssripada,ereiter}@csd.abdn.ac.ukIan P DavyAerospace and Marine Intl.,Banchory, Aberdeenshire, UKidavy@weather3000.comAbstractSummarising georeferenced (can be iden-tified according to it?s location) data innatural language is challenging because itrequires linking events describing its non-geographic attributes to their underlyinggeography.
This mapping is not straightfor-ward as often the only explicit geographicinformation such data contains is latitudeand longitude.
In this paper we present anapproach to generating textual summariesof georeferenced data based on spatial ref-erence frames.
This approach has been im-plemented in a data-to-text system we havedeployed in the weather forecasting domain.1 IntroductionData-to-text systems are NLG systems that gener-ate texts from raw input data.
Many examples ofsuch systems have been reported in the literature,which have been applied in a number of domains andto different types of input.
For example, BabyTalk(Portet et al, 2007) generates medical reports fromsensors monitoring a baby in a Neonatal IntensiveCare Unit, while (Hallett and Scott, 2005) describe asystem for generating reports from events in medicalrecords.
SumTime (Reiter et al, 2005), (Coch, 1998)and Fog (Goldberg et al, 1994) generate weatherforecasts from the output of weather computer sim-ulation models, while (Iordanskaja et al, 1992) and(Ro?sner, 1987) both generate summaries from em-ployment statistics.As the above examples show most work in data-to-text up to now has concentrated almost exclusivelyon time series data.
Work on generating text fromspatial data has been reported in Coral (Dale et al,2005), which generates route descriptions of a pathconstructed from Geographical Information Systems(GIS) datasets.
Unlike the input to Coral however,most georeferenced data contains only limited spatialinformation(in many cases, only latitude and longi-tude).As (Roy and Reiter, 2005) point out, connectinglanguage to the non-linguistic world is an importantissue in Cognitive Science and Aritificial Intelligence;moreover, geographic data is becoming increasinglyubiquitous as the availability of low cost locationaldevices such as GPS increases, and GIS become moreuser friendly.
Therefore, we believe exploring theissue of generating textual reports grounded in realworld geographical data is an important challenge.On a more practical level, it is also a natural nextstep in the application of data-to-text technology toapply it to geographically referenced data.In the RoadSafe project described in the followingsection, we have been investigating this issue in adata-to-text system that generates road ice weatherforecasts.
The subsequent focus of this paper is theadaption of NLG techniques to the task of summaris-ing georeferenced data.
In particular, the incorpora-tion of spatial reference frames to generate grounded(from external GIS data sources) spatial references.2 BackgroundWeather forecasting has been one of the most suc-cessful and widely researched application domains forNLG systems.
The main novel aspect that sets Road-Safe apart from other weather forecast generatorsand indeed, other data-to-text systems, is it?s appli-cation to spatio-temporal data.
The input to Road-Safe is generated by a road ice simulation model,which outputs a large (in order of Megabytes) mul-tivariate data set, shown in Figure 1.The output of the model contains predicted mea-surements of 9 meteorological parameters for 1000?sof points across a road network, each measured at20 minute intervals during a 24 hour forecast pe-riod.
A map of such a network, belonging to a lo-cal council in the UK, is shown in Figure 2.
Thismodel forms the basis of a road ice forecasting ser-16Figure 1: Part of a RoadSafe input data set show-ing corresponding spatial and non-spatial attribute ta-bles; T=Air Temperature (Deg C), W=Dew Point (DegC), R=Road Surface Temperature (Deg C), C=WeatherCode, D=Wind direction (Degrees), V=Mean windSpeed (knots), G=Wind Gust (knots),S=Sky Cover (%),P=Precipitation Water Equivalent (mm).vice provided by Aerospace and Marine International(AMI), which is delivered to local councils via anonline Road Weather Information System (RWIS).This service provides road engineers with up to theminute weather information using graphs, graphicsand textual reports that allows them to base theirroad maintenance operations on during the wintermonths.
In RoadSafe we have been working on gen-erating the textual reports, such as the one shown inFigure 3, automatically from the model data.The communicative goal of the textual reports isto complement detailed tabular and graphical pre-sentations of the model data with a more generaloverview of the weather conditions.
In the contextof our work this presents a number of challenges:1.
The input data has to be analysed, this is non-Figure 2: Road Ice Model Data Points Maptrivial due to the complexity and size of the in-put data.2.
Our system is required to achieve a hugedata/text compression ratio (Human authoredtexts are short and concise summaries).
There-fore, content selection is a serious issue for oursystem.3.
Describing the effect of the underlying geogra-phy on weather conditions, such as ?possible galeforce gusts on higher ground?, is an integral partof the communicative goal of the text.
Infor-mation containing such relationships is not ex-plicit in the input data and therefore must begrounded.
?Another night with all routes quickly falling be-low zero this evening.
Only isolated urban spots inthe south will only drop to around zero.
Freezingfog patches will become more widespread during thenight but thin a little tomorrow morning especiallyin the south.
?Figure 3: Example Human Authored Corpus Text3 ArchitectureAs noted in the previous section, the input data toour system contains only limited spatial information:a point identifier that ties the measurement site toa particular route and a latitude longitude coordi-nate.
Therefore it is necessary for our system to per-form additional spatial reasoning to characterise theinput in terms of its underlying geography.
The ar-chitecture of our system shown in Figure 4, extends17Figure 4: RoadSafe System Architecturethe architecture for data-to-text systems proposedin (Reiter, 2007) to include this additional process-ing.
In Section 3.1 we explain some of the rationalebehind these design decisions based on observationsfrom our knowledge acquisition(KA) Studies.
In Sec-tions 3.2 and 3.3 we explain the additional moduleswe have introduced in more detail.3.1 Observations from KnowledgeAcquisition StudiesWe have been working closely with experts at AMIfor a number of winters now in the development ofRoadSafe.
During this time we have found that twointerrelated aspects in particular have influenced thearchitecture of our system, which we describe next.Spatial Reference Frames Frames of referencein this context are a particular perspective in whichthe domain can be observed.
More precisely, they aresets of related geographical features (such as elevatedareas) which partition the domain into meaningfulsub areas for descriptive purposes.
In Levinson?s ter-minology (Levinson, 2003), they are absolute refer-ence systems as they employ fixed bearings.
In theRoadSafe domain we have identified 4 main spatialframes of reference used by experts in our corpus de-scribed in (Turner et al, 2008):1.
Altitude e.g.
?rain turning to snow on higherground?.2.
Absolute Direction e.g.
?some heavier bursts inthe north?.3.
Coastal Proximity e.g.
?strong winds along thecoast?.4.
Population e.g.
e.g.
?Roads through the Urbanareas holding just above freezing?.Communicative Purpose of Spatial Descrip-tions From our studies we have found that expertsgenerally follow 4 steps when writing road ice fore-casts:1.
Build frames of reference to geographical fea-tures that may affect general weather condi-tions.2.
Build an overview of the general weather pat-tern.3.
Select important features to communicate fromthe pattern.4.
Communicate the summary.Building frames of reference to geographical fea-tures is important for a human forecaster to be ableto take into account how the geography of the regioninfluences the general weather conditions.
Under-standing the weathers interaction with the terrainenables them to make reliable meteorological infer-ences.
For example a spatial description such as ?rainturning to snow in rural areas?
may be geographicallyaccurate, but does not make sense meteorologicallyas it is purely by chance that this event is occurringat that location.18From a NLG system perspective it is important totake into account the communicative purpose of spa-tial descriptions in this context, which are express-ing causality (the effect of geographical features onweather conditions) rather than being purely loca-tive.
For example, changes in precipitation type aremore commonly seen in higher elevation areas wherethe air temperature is generally lower, so a spatial de-scription describing such an event should make use ofa reference frame that reflects this interaction.
Simi-larly, road surface temperatures are generally higherin urban areas where there is a general populationeffect.
For a referring expression generation (REG)strategy this means that this requires not only ade-quate spatial representation and reasoning capabili-ties about an objects location, but also additional in-formation about an objects function in space.
This isa problem which has been acknowledged in the psy-cholinguistic literature e.g.
(Coventry and Garrod,2004).3.2 Geographic CharacterisationGeographic Characterisation is responsible forgrounding the location of the data by making therelationship between it?s underlying geography ex-plicit.
As the first stage of data analysis it assignsadditional spatial properties to each data point by in-tersecting the point with external GIS data sourcesrepresenting the frames of reference we have iden-tified.
For example after characterisation, the firstpoint in the spatial attribute table shown in Figure1 is assigned values [0m,SSW,Urban,Coastal] to rep-resent elevation, absolute compass direction, popula-tion density of its immediate area and its proximityto the coast respectively.
This process is more com-monly known as a form of data enrichment in theSpatial Data Mining community (Miller and Han,2001).
In the scope of our work it is important fortwo reasons: most importantly, it provides a set ofproperties that are used by the REG module to gen-erate spatial descriptions; secondly, these propertiescan be taken into account by our analysis methodduring the initial segmentation of the data.3.3 Spatial Reasoner and Spatial DatabaseThe spatial database provides a repository of geo-graphic information.
Frames of reference are storedas thematic layers from various GIS data sources con-sisting of sets of boundary objects.
For example, al-titude is represented as sets of polygons representingaltitude contours at a given resolution and popula-tion is a set of town boundary polygons.
The spatialreasoning module provides a high level interface be-tween the spatial database and the rest of the system.It is responsible for performing geographic character-isation and providing spatial query functionality tothe rest of the system.4 Text GenerationIn Section 2 we outlined 3 main challenges that oursystem must address.
Our approach to the first,analysis of the input data, is described in (Turneret al, 2007).
In the following Sections 4.1 and 4.2,we describe the approach taken by our text generatorto the former two: content selection and generatingspatial references.4.1 Content SelectionThe input to the document planning module of oursystem is a series of meteorological events (such asrises in temperature) describing each parameter overspecific periods of time and locations.
The basicevents are generated by data analysis which are thenabstracted into higher level concepts by data inter-pretation.
As it is impossible to include all theseevents in such a short summary our system also gen-erates a table as well as text shown in Figure 5.In our KA studies we have found experts usea qualitative overview of weather conditions whenwriting forecasts to perform this task, confirmingsimilar observations reported in (Sripada et al,2001).
We take the same approach as experts inour system by including the internal informationof the table (generated by the data analysis mod-ule) as input to document planning.
This serves asthe overview for content selection and allows con-struction of an initial document plan consisting ofoverview event leaf nodes.
An example of this struc-ture for the system output shown in Figure 5 is givenin Figure 6.
Each overview event corresponds to acolumn (or columns in the case of snow and rain) inthe table if the column indicates a significant thresh-old for the parameter it describes (i.e.
yes for ice).Figure 6: Overview event tree for the text output in Fig-ure 519Figure 5: Example system output with text and partial tableThe next stage is to construct messages from theleaf nodes of the document plan.
This is done in atop down fashion by further annotating the tree withevents from the input list.
Additional events are se-lected by using the information from the overviewevents to retrieve them from the list.
This has thebenefit of keeping the content of both text and ta-ble consistent.
The final tree comprises the inputto the microplanner where messages are realised assentences in the final text and typically contain twoevents per message (as observed in our corpus).
Forexample the overview event describing Precip in Fig-ure 6 is realised as two sentences in Figure 5: Win-try precipitation will affect most routes throughoutthe forecast period at first [overview event], fallingas snow flurries in some places above 300M at first[event].
Snow spreading throughout the forecast pe-riod to all areas [event] and persisting in some placesabove 300M until end of period [event].4.2 Generating Spatial References toGeographic AreasApproaches to REG to date have concentratedon distinguishing descriptions (e.g.
(Gatt andvan Deemter, 2007),(van Deemter, 2006),(Horacek,2006),(Krahmer et al, 2003),(Dale and Reiter,1995); more specifically that is given a domain, theylook to generate a description of a target object thatuniquely distinguishes it from all other objects withinthat domain.
In a large geographic environmentsuch as a road network consisting of 1000?s of points,where the task is to refer to an event occurring at asmall subset of those points, it is impractical (gen-erated descriptions may be long and complex) andprohibitively expensive (large numbers of spatial re-lations between objects may have to be computed) totake this approach.
A more practical approach is togenerate spatial descriptions in terms of regions thatare not strictly distinguishing (i.e.
urban areas, highground) rather than in terms of the points containedwithin that region.
Indeed, this is the strategy em-ployed by human authors in our corpus.
Therefore,in a description such as ?road surface temperatureswill fall below zero in some places in the south west?,distractors can be defined as the set of points withinthe south western boundary that do not satisfy thispremise.The relaxation of the requirement to generate adistinguishing description simplifies the REG task inthis context as a single referring expression may bedeemed acceptable to refer to a wide range of situa-tions.
For example, ?in some places in the south west?could be used to refer to a large number of possiblesubsets of points that fall within the south westernboundary of the network.
A simple REG strategyis to find the set of properties to use in a descrip-tion that introduce the least number of distractors.However, as mentioned previously in Section 3.1, anadded constraint is that a spatial description shoulduse an appropriate frame of reference in the contextof the event it is describing.
For example, describinga change in precipitation type using population as20a frame of reference (i.e ?rain turning snow in somerural places?)
is not a sound meteorological inferencebecause population density does not affect precipi-tation.
This could cause a reader to infer false im-plicatures (Grice, 1975), and consequently lead tounnecessary treatment of part of the road networkso should be avoided.
To account for this, following(Dale and Reiter, 1995) we include a preference setof reference frames for each type of event that mustbe described.
Absence from the set signifies that thespecified frame of reference should not be used inthat context.Recall from Section 3.2 that properties in this caserelate directly to sets of boundary objects within aframe of reference.
Our content selection moduletakes as input a series of individual proportions de-scribing the spatial distribution of each parameterwithin each frame of reference at a particular timepoint.
A score is calculated for each set of propertiesby averaging over the sum of proportions for eachframe of reference.
An appropriate frame of refer-ence is then selected by choosing the one with thehighest score from the preference set for the givenevent.
An example1 of the input for the generateddescription ?falling as snow flurries in some placesabove 300M at first?
in Figure 5 is shown in Figure7.5 EvaluationThe system presented in this paper is in its firstincarnation, RoadSafe is still actively under devel-opment in preparation for a full scale user evalua-tion.
We have been evaluating the quality of theoutput of the current system using post edit tech-niques and feedback from expert meteorologists atAMI.
Our prototype has been installed at AMI sincethe start of the year and is being used to generatedraft road ice forecasts for one of their local councilclients.
One forecast is generated per day which isthen post-edited by an on duty forecaster before it issent to the client.
While common in Machine Trans-lation post-edit evaluations are still relatively rare inNLG.
The only large scale post-edit evaluation of anNLG system to our knowledge has been reported in(Sripada et al, 2005).Our current evaluation is small in comparison tothat evaluation; SumTime-Mousam, the system be-ing evaluated in that work was generating 150 draftforecasts per day.
However, it does try to addresssome of the problems the authors encountered duringthat evaluation.
The main issue outlined by (Sripada1N.B.
this example is taken from route network that island locked and therefore coastal proximity is not taken intoaccount in this case.Parameter: SnowClass: FlurriesTime point: 12:00 {Reference Frame Boundary ProportionAltitude0m: 0.0100m: 0.0200m: 0.0300m: 0.07400m: 1.0500m: 1.0DirectionCentralNE: 0.0CentralNW: 0.0CentralSE: 0.0CentralSW: 0.0EastNorthEast: 0.0EastSouthEast: 0.0SouthSouthEast: 0.0SouthSouthWest: 0.18TrueNorthEast: 0.0TrueSouthEast: 0.0TrueSouthWest: 0.56WestSouthWest: 0.23PopulationRural: 0.02Urban: 0.0}Figure 7: Example input to content selection for REG.Proportions are number of points affected by snow withingiven boundary at the specified time point.
Scores byReference Frame: Altitude = 0.35, Direction = 0.07, Pop-ulation = 0.01et al, 2005) was that their analysis was post-hoc andtherefore not supported by authors or by an editingtool, which made it difficult to analyse why post-editswere made.
We have accounted for this by includingpost-editing as part of our development process andmaking use of a simple online interface that allowsthe editor to select check boxes as they edit and in-sert any general comments they may have.
Checkboxes record edit reasons at a high level, for exam-ple content, sentence order, spatial description usedetc.
This is because it is not reasonable to expect atime-constrained forecaster to spend time recordingevery edit he makes.Another important lesson pointed out by (Sripadaet al, 2005) is the need for a pilot study to analysethe post-edit behaviour of individual authors to ac-count for noisy data.
This is certainly worthwhile,but is difficult to carry out in our domain where fore-casters work in variable shift patterns and on vari-able forecasting tasks at different times.
Instead, we21have used feedback forms as a way to gain qualitativedata on both the general quality of the texts and thepost-editing process.
We present our results in Sec-tion 5.1.
In Section 5.2 we provide some discussionof the results and describe future work.5.1 ResultsOur post-edit corpus currently consists of 112 texts,2 texts(1 generated,1 edited) for 56 forecast days.Of the 56 generated texts 54 have been edited beforebeing released to the user.
As a general evaluationcriterion, our generated texts are generally too longwith a mean word length of 72 (standard deviationof 21) compared to a mean word length of 53 (stan-dard deviation of 17).
The mean word count differ-ence per forecast is 21 (standard deviation of 15).
Ingeneral analysis of the corpus is difficult, as in somecases (18) texts have been basically rewritten.
Thisis not reflecting the quality of the text as such, butthe fact that the author has access to other informa-tion sources such as satellite maps, which can leadhim to draw different inferences to those in the rawmodel data available to the system.
Furthermore,(Hopwood, 2004) acknowledge as ice prediction mod-els have become increasingly advanced, the primaryadded value provided by weather forecasters is tofunction as quality control and error mitigation forthe model, using their insight and experience to makeamendments particularly on marginal nights (wherethe road surface temperature may or may not fall be-low zero).
Such cases can only be considered as noisefor analysis purposes, and the fact that our systemcannot account for this without the additional infor-mation has been acknowledged by all forecasters intheir editing comments and feedback forms.Focusing on 74 real post-edits (not attributed tomodel data) recorded in our corpus, they can be clas-sified into the following broad error categories: con-tent edits - 65% and microplanning edits 35%.
Onemajor problem we have identified with the currentgenerated text is the way in which overview eventsdescribed in 4.1 are realised.
Deletions of whole sen-tences describing overview events such as the onehighlighted in bold in Figure 8 constitute over half(52%) of content edits, which may help to explainthe large descrepency in word counts.
Essentiallyforecasters believe they can often communicate sim-ilar information as subsequent statements about thesame parameter making the texts repetitive at times.Therefore they suggest they should either be omit-ted or be realised as more interpretative statements,such as ?A marginal night for most routes?
for theomitted statement in Figure 8.
Forecasters also of-ten delete subsequent statements following overviewGenerated Text:?Road surface temperatures will reachnear critical levels on some routes from thelate evening until tomorrow morning.
Rainwill affect all routes during the afternoon andevening.
Road surface temperatures will fall slowlyduring the mid afternoon and evening, reachingnear critical levels in areas above 500M by 21:00.?Post-edited Text:?Rain will affect all routes during the after-noon and evening.
Road surface temperatures willfall slowly during the mid afternoon and evening,reaching near critical levels in areas above 500M by21:00.?Figure 8: Content selection post-edit example (roadsurface temperature overview information removed)Generated Text:?Road surface temperatures will reach nearcritical levels on some routes after midnight untiltomorrow morning.
Rain will affect all routesthroughout the forecast period, falling as snowin some places above 500M by 08:00.
Snowclearing by 08:00.
Road surface temperatureswill fall slowly during the late evening and tonight,reaching near critical levels in areas above 500M by03:00.?Post-edited Text:?Road surface temperatures will reach nearcritical levels on some routes after midnight untiltomorrow morning.
Rain will affect all routesduring the forecast period, this may fall as sleetlater on highest ground before dying out.Road surface temperatures will fall slowly duringthe late evening and tonight, reaching near criticallevels in areas above 500M by 03:00.?Figure 9: Microplanning post-edit example (lexicalisa-tion and aggregation)sentences when they describe an event (such as rainturning heavy) occuring only at a small number oflocations.
So the spatial extent of an event and notonly its meteorological importance should be con-sidered during content selection.
RoadSafe does notcurrently include much domain reasoning at the doc-ument planning level to be able to do this.22Microplanning edits, as highlighted in bold in Fig-ure 9, are due to individual lexical choice or aggrega-tion issues.
In all questionnaires experts have com-mented that the generated texts are grammaticallysound but could flow better.
Aggregation is donein a fairly basic fashion in our system at present asis lexicalisation.
There have been no edits to theframe of reference used in the generated spatial de-scriptions, which we have taken as indication thatour REG strategy works well.5.2 DiscussionThe general feedback to our system has been encour-aging.
In terms of the exploitability of the system inits current form it has received mixed reviews from4 forecasters: 1 forecaster rated the system as goodfor content and very poor on fluency; 1 rated it asok for both; 1 forecaster rated it as poor for contentand ok for fluency; 1 forecaster rated it as poor forboth.
Generally all forecasters believe the generatedtexts should tell a more fluent story about weatherconditions with more causal linking between events.In terms of the techniques and approach outlined inthis paper they have worked well, although as ac-knowledged in the previous section more sophisti-cated domain reasoning and aggregation techniquesare required if the text is to function as a concisesummary, and indeed reach the standard of humanauthored texts.Making the required improvements highlighted inthe previous section is the focus of current work.
Af-ter these improvements have been made we plan tocarry out an evaluation with users of the forecasts.We hope to also extend the functionality of the sys-tem by generating individual route forecasts, whichcan be accessed interactively through the table.6 ConclusionsWe have presented an approach to generating ge-ographically grounded summaries of georeferenceddata using spatial reference frames.
This approachhas been implemented in a data-to-text system forgenerating road ice forecasts.
An important task insummarising georeferenced data is to describe thedata in terms of its underlying geography it refer-ences.
This presents an interesting challenge for con-ventional REG approaches as finding a distinguish-ing description for large numbers of objects in geo-graphic space is not practical.
We have found char-acterising the geography in terms of spatial referenceframes provides a good solution as it provides a flex-ible representation to describe set of objects in termsof geographic areas.We have also implemented a simple top downcontent selection approach based on the idea ofoverview, taken from how we have observed ex-perts commonly performing the summarisation task.While this approach works well for content selection,a post-edit evaluation with experts has highlightedthat realising the overview in the text can make textsverbose and have the effect of making subsequentstatements describing related events in the discoursesound repetitive.
This is important as experts re-quire a short concise summary of weather conditions.AcknowledgmentsMany thanks to our collaborators at Aerospace andMarine International UK, especially Keith Thom-son and the other Meteorologists, for their helpfulfeedback and comments.
The RoadSafe project issupported jointly by Aerospace and Marine Inter-national UK, and the UK Engineering and PhysicalSciences Research Council (EPSRC), under a CASEPhD studentship.ReferencesJ.
Coch.
1998.
Multimeteo: multilingual production ofweather forecasts.
ELRA Newsletter, 3(2).K.
R. Coventry and S. C. Garrod.
2004.
Saying, Seeingand Acting: The Psychological Semantics of SpatialPrepositions.
Psychology Press.R.
Dale and E. Reiter.
1995.
Computational interpreta-tions of the gricean maxims in the generation of refer-ring expressions.
Cognitive Science, 19:233?263.R Dale, S Geldof, and J-P Prost.
2005.
Using natu-ral language generation in automatic route description.Journal of Research and Practice in Information Tech-nology, 37(1):89?105.A.
Gatt and K. van Deemter.
2007.
Lexical choice andconceptual perspective in the generation of plural re-ferring expressions.
Journal of Logic, Language andInformation, 16:423?443.E.
Goldberg, N. Driedger, and R. Kittredge.
1994.
Usingnatural-language processing to produce weather fore-casts.
IEEE Expert, 9(2):45?53.H.
Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In P. Cole andJ.
Morgan, editors, Syntax and Semantics, volume 3,Speech Acts, pages 43?58.
Academic Press: New York.C.
Hallett and D. Scott.
2005.
Structural variation ingenerated health reports.
In Proceedings of the 3rdInternational Workshop on Paraphrasing (IWP2005),pages 33?40, Jeju Island, Republic of Korea.Philip Hopwood.
2004.
Improvements in road forecastingtechniques & their applications.
In 12th InternationalRoad Weather Conference, Bingen, Germany.Helmut Horacek.
2006.
Generating references to partsof recursively structured objects.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th International Conference on Natural LanguageGeneration, pages 47?54.23Lidija Iordanskaja, Richard Kittredge, Benoit Lavoie,and Alain Polgue`re.
1992.
Generation of extendedbilingual statistical reports.
COLING-92, pages 1019?1023.Emiel Krahmer, Sebastiaan van Erk, and Andr Verleg.2003.
Graph-based generation of referring expressions.Computational Linguistics, 29(1):53?72.Stephen C. Levinson.
2003.
Space in language and cog-nition: explorations in cognitive diversity.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Harvey J. Miller and Jiawei Han.
2001.
Geographic datamining and knowledge discovery: An overview.
In Ge-ographic Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, chap-ter 1, pages 1?32.
Taylor & Francis.F.
Portet, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter, and S. Sripada.
2007.Automatic generation of textual summaries fromneonatal intensive care data.
In 11th Conference onArtificial Intelligence in Medicine (AIME 07), pages227?236.E.
Reiter, S. Sripada, J.
Hunter, J. Yu, and I. Davy.2005.
Choosing words in computer-generated weatherforecasts.
In Artificial Intelligence, volume 67, pages137?169.E.
Reiter.
2007.
An architecture for data-to-text sys-tems.
In ENLG07, pages 97?104.D.
Ro?sner.
1987.
The automated news agency: Sem-tex: A text generator for german.
In Natural Lan-guage Generation: New Results in Artificial Intelli-gence, Psychology, and Linguistics.
Nijhoff.D.
Roy and E. Reiter.
2005.
Connecting language to theworld.
Artificial Intelligence, 167:1?12.S.
Sripada, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter, and Jin Yu.
2001.A two-stage model for content determination.
InENLG2001, pages 3?10.S Sripada, E Reiter, and L Hawizy.
2005.
Evaluation ofan nlg system using post-edit data: Lessons learnt.
In10th European Workshop on Natural Language Gener-ation.R.
Turner, S. Sripada, E. Reiter, and I. Davy.
2007.
Se-lecting the content of textual descriptions of geograph-ically located events in spatio-temporal weather data.In Applications and Innovations in Intelligent SystemsXV, pages 75?88.R.
Turner, S. Sripada, E. Reiter, and I. Davy.
2008.Building a parallel spatio-temporal data-text cor-pus for summary generation.
In Proceedings of theLREC2008 Workshop on Methodologies and Resourcesfor Processing Spatial Language, Marrakech, Morocco.K van Deemter.
2006.
Generating referring expressionsthat involve gradable properties.
Computational Lin-guistics, 32:195?222.24
