Using Tactical NLG to Induce Affective States: Empirical InvestigationsIelka van der SluisComputing Science,University of Aberdeeni.v.d.sluis@abdn.ac.ukChris MellishComputing ScienceUniversity of Aberdeenc.mellish@abdn.ac.ukAbstractThis paper reports on attempts at Aberdeen1to measure the effects on readers?
emotions ofpositively and negatively ?slanted?
texts withthe same basic message.
The ?slanting?
meth-ods could be implemented in an (NLG) sys-tem.
We discuss a number of possible reasonswhy the studies were unable to show clear, sta-tistically significant differences between theeffects of the different texts.1 Introduction: Affective NLG?Affective NLG?
has been defined as ?NLG that re-lates to, arises from or deliberately influences emo-tions or other non-strictly rational aspects of theHearer?
(De Rosis and Grasso, 2000).
Although thisterm could cover a range of types of NLG, in prac-tice, a lot of work on affective NLG emphasises thedepiction of emotional states/personalities (Oberlan-der and Gill, 2004), rather than the induction of emo-tional effects on readers.
However, there are manyapplications where the intention is, for instance, tomotivate or discourage, as well as to inform.How can NLG influence the emotions of its read-ers?
It is apparent that strategical decisions (?whatto say?)
can make a difference on how a reader re-sponds emotionally to a text.
If you tell someonegood news, they will be happier than if you tell thembad news.
On the other hand, much of NLG is con-cerned with tactical decisions (?how to say it?
), andthe affective relevance of these is less clear.
Can tac-tical NLG choices be used to achieve goals in terms1Ielka van der Sluis is now at the Department of ComputerScience, Trinity College, Dublinof the reader?s emotions?
In the area of affectivecomputing, there has been some work on assess-ing the effects of interfaces on the emotions of theirusers, e.g.
on their frustration levels (Prendinger etal., 2006) or their feelings of support/trust (Lee etal., 2007).
In NLG there has been some work ontask-based evaluation cf.
STOP (Reiter et al, 2003)and SKILLSUM (Williams and Reiter, forthcoming).However, to our knowledge, there has not yet beenany demonstration of tactical decisions making adifference on a reader?s emotions.The paper is organised as follows: Section 2 intro-duces the tactical choices we are studying, our testtexts and a text validation study.
Section 3 discussesa pilot study that was conducted to try out poten-tial psychological measurement methods.
Section 4presents a full study to measure the affect of text in-voked in readers.
The paper closes with a discussionof the findings and their possible implications.2 Tactical ChoicesWe decided that a safe way to start would beto choose primitive positive versus negative emo-tions (such as sadness, joy, disappointment, sur-prise, anger), as opposed to more complex emo-tions related to trust, persuasion, advice, reassur-ance.
Therefore we focus here on alternatives thatgive a text a positive or negative ?slant?.
These couldbe applied by an NLG system whose message has?positive?
and ?negative?
aspects, where ?positive?information conjures up scenarios that are pleasantand acceptable to the reader, makes them feel happyand cooperative etc.
and ?negative?
informationconjures up unpleasant or threatening situations and68so makes them feel more unhappy, confused etc.
Forinstance, (DeRosis et al, 1999) discuss generatinginstructions on how to take medication which haveto both address positive aspects (?this will make youfeel better if you do the following?)
and also negativeones (?this may produce side-effects, which I have totell you about by law?).
An NLG system in such adomain could make itself popular by only mention-ing the positive information, but then it could leaveitself open to later criticism (or litigation) if by do-ing so it clearly misrepresented the true situation.Although it may be inappropriate grossly to misrep-resent the provided message, there are more subtle(tactical) ways to ?colour?
or ?slant?
the presenta-tion of the message in order to emphasise either thepositive or the negative aspects.We assume that the message to be conveyed isa simple set of propositions, each classified in anapplication-dependent way as having positive ornegative polarity according to whether the reader islikely to welcome it or be unhappy about it in thecontext of the current message.2 In general, thisclassification could, for instance, be derived fromthe information that a planning system has aboutwhich propositions support which goals (e.g.
to stayhealthy one needs to eat healthy food).
We also as-sume that a possible phrasing for a proposition hasa magnitude, which indicates the degree of impact ithas.
This is independent of the polarity.
We will notneed to actually measure magnitudes, but when wemake claims that one wording of a proposition hasa smaller magnitude than another we indicate thiswith <.
For instance, we would claim that usually:?a few rats died?
< ?many rats died?Thus we claim that ?a few rats died?
has less im-pact than ?many rats died?, whether or not rats dy-ing is considered a good thing (i.e.
whether the po-larity is positive or negative).
In general, an NLGsystem can manipulate the magnitude of wordingsof the propositions it expresses, to indicate its own(subjective) view of their importance.
In order toslant a text positively, it can express positive polaritypropositions in ways that have high magnitudes andnegative polarity propositions in ways that have low2Note that this sense of ?polarity?
is not the same as the oneused to describe ?negative polarity items?
in Linguisticsmagnitudes.
The opposite applies for negative slant-ing.
Thus, for instance, in an application where itis bad for rats to die, expressing a given propositionby ?a few rats died?
would be giving more of a pos-itive slant, whereas saying ?many rats died?
wouldbe slanting it more negatively.Whenever one words a proposition in differentways, it can be claimed that a (perhaps subtle)change of meaning is involved.
In an example likethis, therefore, perhaps the content of the messagechanges between the two wordings and so this is infact a strategic alternation.
In this work, we take theview that it is legal to make changes that relate to thewriter?s attitude to the material of the text.
The dif-ference between ?a few rats?
and ?many rats?
is (inour view) that the number of rats is either less thanor more than the writer would have expected.
Wecan therefore choose between these alternatives byvarying the writer, not the underlying message.
An-other reason for considering this choice as tacticalis that in an NLG system, it would likely be imple-mented somewhere late in the ?pipeline?.
Our claimthat pairs such as this can appropriately describe thesame event is also supported by our text validationexperiments described below.2.1 Test TextsWe started by composing by hand two messagescontaining mainly negative and positive polaritypropositions respectively.
The negative messagetells the reader that a cancer-causing colouring sub-stance is found in some foods available in the su-permarkets.
The positive message tells the readerthat foods that contain Scottish water contain a min-eral which helps to fight cancer.
The first paragraphof both texts states that there is a substance foundin consumer products that has an effect on people?shealth and it addresses the way in which this factis handled by the relevant authorities.
The secondparagraph of the text elaborates on the products thatcontain the substance and the third paragraph ex-plains in what way the substance can affect people?shealth.To study the effects of different wordings, foreach text a positive and a negative version was pro-duced by slanting propositions in either a positiveor a negative way.
This resulted in four texts in to-tal, two texts with a negative message one positively69and one negatively phrased (NP and NN), and twotexts with a positive message one positively and onenegatively verbalised (PP and PN).
To maximise theimpact aimed for, various slanting techniques wereused by hand as often as possible without loss of be-lievability (this was assessed by the intuition of theresearchers).
The positive and negative texts wereslanted in parallel as far as possible, that is in bothtexts similar sentences were adapted so that they em-phasised the positive or the negative aspects of themessage.
The linguistic variation used in the textswas algorithmically reproducible and the techniquesare illustrated below.
A number of these were sug-gested by work on ?framing?
in Psychology (Moxeyand Sanford, 2000; Teigen and Brun, 2003).
Indeed,that work also suggests further variations that couldbe manipulated, for instance, the choice between us-ing numerical and non-numerical values for express-ing quantities.SLANTING EXAMPLES FOR THE NEGATIVE MESSAGEHere it is assumed that recalls of products, risksof danger etc.
involve negative polarity proposi-tions.
Therefore negative slanting will amongstother things choose high magnitude realisations forthese.Techniques involving adjectives and adverbs:- ?A recall?
< ?A large-scale recall?
of infectedmerchandise was triggeredTechniques involving quantification:- Sausages, tomato sauce and lentil soup are?some?
< ?only some?
of the affected itemsTechniques involving a change in polarityProposition expressed with positive polarity:- Tests on monkeys revealed that as many as ?40percent?
of the animals infected with this sub-stance ?did not develop any tumors?Proposition expressed with negative polarity:- Tests on monkeys revealed that as many as ?60percent?
of the animals infected with this sub-stance ?developed tumors?.Techniques manipulating rhetorical prominencePositive slant:- ?So your health is at risk, but every possiblething is being done to tackle this problem?Negative slant:- ?So although every possible thing is beingdone to tackle this problem, your health is atrisk?SLANTING EXAMPLES FOR THE POSITIVE MESSAGEHere it is assumed that killing cancer, promotingScottish water etc.
involve positive polarity proposi-tions.
Therefore positive slanting will amongst otherthings choose high magnitude realisations for these.Techniques involving adjectives and adverbs:- Neolite is a ?detoxifier?
< ?powerful detoxi-fier?
preventing cancer cellsTechniques involving quantification:- ?Cancer-killing Neolite?
< ?Substantialamounts of cancer-killing Neolite?
was foundin Scottish drinking waterTechniques involving a change in polarityProposition expressed with negative polarity:- A study on people with mostly stage 4 can-cer revealed that as many as ?40 percent?
ofthe patients that were given Neolite ?still hadcancer?
at the end of the study.Proposition expressed with positive polarity:- A study on people with mostly stage 4 cancerrevealed that as many as ?60 percent?
of thepatients that were given Neolite ?were cancerfree?
at the end of the study.Techniques manipulating rhetorical prominenceNegative slant:- ?Neolite is certainly advantageous for yourhealth, but it is not a guaranteed cure for, ordefence against cancer?Positive slant:- ?So Although Neolite is not a guaranteed curefor, or defence against cancer, it is certainlyadvantageous for your health?2.2 Text validationTo check our intuitions on the effects of the textualvariation between the four texts described above, atext validation experiment was conducted in which24 colleagues participated.
The participants wererandomly assigned to one of two groups (i.e.
P andN), group P was asked to validate 23 sentence pairsfrom the positive message (PN versus PP) and groupN was asked to validate 17 sentence pairs from thenegative message (NN versus NP).
Each pair con-sisted of two sentences intended to differ in theirmagnitude but to be possible realisations of the sameunderlying content (as in the examples in the lastsection).
Both the N and the P group sentence pairsincluded four filler pairs.
The participants in group70P were asked which of the two sentences in each pairthey thought most positive in the context of the mes-sage about the positive effects of Scottish water.
Theparticipants in group N were asked which of the twosentences in each pair they found most alarming inthe context of the message about the contaminationof food available for consumption.
All participantswere asked to indicate if they thought the sentencesin each pair could be used to report on the sameevent (i.e.
represented purely tactical variations).Results in the N group indicated that in 89.75%of the cases participants agreed with our intuitionsabout which one of the two sentences was mostalarming.
On average, per sentence pair 1.08 of the12 participants judged the sentences differently thanwhat we expected.
In 7 of the 13 sentence pairs (17- 4 fillers) participants unanimously agreed with ourintuitions.
In the other sentence pairs 1 to, maxi-mally, 4 participants did not share our point of view.In the two cases in which four participants did notagree with or were unsure about the difference weexpected, we adapted our texts.
One of these caseswas the pair:?just 359?
infected products have beenwithdrawn < ?as many as 359?
infectedproducts have been withdrawn ?already?We thought that the latter of the two would bemore alarming (and correspond to negative slanting)because it is a bad thing if products have to bewithdrawn (negative polarity).
However, someparticipants felt that products being withdrawnwas a good thing (positive polarity), because itmeant that something was being done to tackle theproblem, in which case the latter would be imposinga positive slant.
As a consequence of the validationresults, it was decided to ?neutralise?
this sentencein both the NP and NN versions of the text to ?359infected products have been withdrawn?.
Overall,in 78.85% of the cases the participants thought thatboth sentences in a pair could report on the sameevent.Results in the P group were similar.
In 82.46% ofthe cases participants agreed with our intuitionsabout which one of the two sentences was mostpositive.
In two cases, minor changes were made tomake the texts clearer.
Overall, in 86.84 % of thecases the participants thought that both sentences ina pair could report on the same event.3 Pilot Study: Testing PsychologicalMethods to Measure Emotions3.1 Psychological MethodsThe next step was to determine plausible methodsto measure the emotional effect of a text.
There aretwo broad ways of measuring the emotions of humansubjects ?
physiological methods and self-reporting.Because of the technical complications and the con-flicting results to be found in the literature, we optedto ignore physiological measurement methods andto investigate self-reporting.
To measure these emo-tions we decided do a pilot study to try out threewell-established methods that are used frequentlyin the field of psychology, the Russel Affect Grid(Russell et al, 1989), the Positive and Negative Af-fect Scale (PANAS) (Watson et al, 1988), and theSelf Assessment Manikin (SAM) (Lang, 1980).
ThePANAS test is a scale consisting of 20 words andphrases (10 for positive affect and 10 for negativeaffect) that describe feelings and emotions.
Partic-ipants read the terms and indicate to what extentthey experience(d) the emotions indicated by eachof them using a five point scale ranging from (1)very slightly/not at all, (2) a little, (3) moderately,(4) quite a bit to (5) extremely.
A total score for pos-itive affect is calculated by simply adding the scoresfor the positive terms, and similarly for negative af-fect.
The Russel Affect Grid and the SAM test bothassess valence and arousal on a nine-point scale.3.2 Method: Subjects, Stimuli and SettingOur pilot study aimed to test a general experimentset up, and to help us find the most promising ofthe above methods to measure emotions evoked bytext.
24 colleagues and students (other than the onesinvolved in the text validation experiments) partic-ipated as subjects in this pilot study in which theywere asked to fill in a few forms about how theyfelt after reading a particular text.
All, except three,were native or fluent speakers of English and nonewas familiar with the purposes of the study.
Thesubjects were divided in two groups of 12 subjectseach, and were asked to fill in some questionnairesand to read a text about a general topic with a partic-71ular consequence for the addressee.
For this exper-iment, just the negative message texts illustrated inthe previous section were used (i.e.
?some of yourfood contains a substance that causes cancer?).
Onegroup of subjects, the NP-group, was given this neg-ative message verbalised in a neutral way giving theimpression that although there was a problem everypossible thing was being done to tackle it.
The othergroup, the NN-group, was given the same negativemessage presented in a negative way implying thatalthough many things were being done to tackle theproblem, there still was a problem.
We expected thatafter the subjects had read the text, the emotions ofthe subjects in the NN-group would be more neg-ative than the emotions of the subjects in the NP-group.
We also expected the subjects in the NN-group to be more strongly affected than the subjectsin the NP-group.For ethical reasons, both in this experiment andthe following one, the main experimental procedurewas followed by a debriefing session in which thesubjects were informed that they had been deceivedby the texts presented and during which it was possi-ble to provide support for subjects if their emotionalreactions had been especially strong.3.3 Results and DiscussionOverall, t-test results failed to find significant differ-ences between the the NN-group and the NP-groupfor any of the emotion measurement methods used.The Russel test, which was taken before the partic-ipants read the test text3, indicated that the partici-pants in the NP group might be feeling slightly morepositive and less aroused than the participants in theNN group.
The results for the PANAS test, taken af-ter the participants read the test text, show that theNP group might be feeling a little bit more positivethat the NN group about the content of the text theyjust read.
The Sam test, which the participants werealso asked to fill out with respect to their feelings af-ter reading the test text, indicates that the NP groupmight be feeling less positive and more aroused thanthe NN group.How to interpret the outcomes of the pilot study?There are several factors that could have caused the3Ideally we would have presented all tests both before andafter the text was read, but we believed that this would overloadthe subjects and lead to distorted results.lack of significant results.
One reason could be thatthe differences between the NP and NN texts werenot large enough.
Yet another reason could be thatthe people that took part in the study were not reallyinvolved in the topic of the text or the consequencesof the message.
When looking at the three emotionmeasurement methods used, some participants didindicate that the SAM and Russel tests were difficultto interpret.
Also some participants showed signsof boredom or disinterest while rating the PANASterms, which were all printed on one A4 page; somejust marked all the terms as ?slightly/not at all?
bycircling them all in one go instead of looking at theterms separately.
Also, some participants indicatedthat they found it difficult to distinguish particularterms.
For example the PANAS test includes both?scared?
and ?afraid?.
As a consequence, there wereseveral things that could be improved and adjustedbefore going ahead with a full scale experiment inwhich all four texts were tested.4 Full Study: Measuring EmotionalEffects of TextThis section presents a full scale experiment con-ducted to assess the emotional effect invoked inreaders of a text.
The experimental set up attemptsto take into account the results found in the pilotstudy presented in the previous section.
However,there were obviously a number of things that couldbe improved after this study, and so many thingswere changed without any direct evidence thatthey would improve the experiment.
Below themethod, data processing and results are presentedand discussed.4.1 Method: subjects, stimuli andexperimental settingBased on the pilot results, the setup of this studywas adapted in a number of ways.
For instance,we decided to increase the likelihood of findingmeasurable emotional effects of text by targetinga group of subjects other than our sceptical col-leagues.
Because it has been shown that youngwomen are highly interested in health issues and es-pecially health risks (Finucane et al, 2000), we de-cided on young female students as our participants.72In total 60 female students took part in the experi-ment and were paid a small fee for their efforts.
Theaverage age of the participants was about 20.57 (std.2.41) years old.
The participants were evenly andrandomly distributed over the four texts (i.e.
NN,NP, PN, PP) tested in this study, that is 15 partici-pants per group.
The texts were tailored to the sub-ject group, by for example mentioning food productsthat are typically consumed by students as examplesin the texts and by specifically mentioning young fe-males as targets of the consequences of the message.On a more general level, the texts were adapted to aScottish audience by, for instance, mentioning Scot-tish products and a Scottish newspaper as the sourceof the article.
Although the results of the pilot studydid not indicate that the texts were not believable,we thought that the presentation of the texts couldbe improved by making them look more like news-paper articles, with a date and a source indication.To enhance the experimental setting, the emo-tion measurement methods were better tailored tothe task.
The SAM test as well as the Russel Gridwere removed from the experiment set up, becausethey caused confusion for the participants in the pi-lot study.
Another reason for removing these testswas to reduce the number of questions to be an-swered by the participants and to avoid bored an-swering.
For the latter reason, also a previously usedreduced version of the PANAS test (Mackinnon etal., 1999) was used, in which the number of emo-tion terms that participants had to rate for themselveswas decreased from 20 to 10.
This PANAS set, con-sisting of five positive (i.e.
alert, determined, en-thusiastic, excited, inspired) and five negative terms(i.e.
afraid, scared, nervous, upset, distressed), wasused both before and after participants read the testtext.
Before the participants read the test text, theywere asked to indicate how they felt at that point intime using the PANAS terms.
After the participantsread the test text, they were asked to rate the affectterms with respect to their feelings about the text.Note that this is different from asking them abouttheir current feelings, because we wanted to empha-sise that we wanted to know about their emotions re-lated to the content of the text they just read and notabout their feelings in general.
We expected that thereduced PANAS test would produce reliable resultsbecause of its previous successful use.
Whereas inthe pilot study each test was handled individually,the PANAS terms were now interleaved with otherquestions about recall and opinions to further avoidboredom.4.2 HypothesesIn this full study four texts were tested on four differ-ent groups of subjects.
Two groups read the positivemessage (PP-group and PN-group) two groups readthe negative message (NN-group and NP-group).
Ofthe two groups that read the positive message, weexpected the positive emotions of the participantsthat read the positive version of this message (PP-group) to be stronger than the positive emotions ofthe participants that read the neutral/negative versionof this message (PN-group).
Of the two groups thatread the negative message, we expected the partici-pants that read the negative version of this message(NN-group) to be more negative than the partici-pants that read the positive version of the message(NP-group).4.3 ResultsOverall, participants in this study were highly inter-ested in the experiment and in the text they wereasked to read.
Participants that read the positivemessage, about the benefits of Scottish water, ap-peared very enthusiastic and expressed disappoint-ment when they read the debriefing from which theylearned that the story contained no truth.
Simi-larly, participants that read the negative message ex-pressed anger and fear in their comments on theexperiment and showed relief when the debriefingtold them that the story on food poisoning was com-pletely made up for the purposes of the experiment.Only a few participants that read a version of thenegative message commented that they had got usedto the fact that there was often something wrongwith food and were therefore less scared.
Table1 shows some descriptives that underline these im-pressions.
For instance, on a 5-point scale the par-ticipants rated the texts they read more than mod-erately interesting (average of po-i = 3.74).
Theyalso found the text informative (average of inform= 3.82) and noted that it contained new information(average of new = 4.05).
These are surprisingly pos-itive figures when we consider that the participantsindicated only an average interest in food (average of73PN PP NN NPpr-i 2.47(1.13) 3.07(1.03) 3.00(.85) 3.00(1.25)inf 3.87(.83) 3.80(.94) 3.67(1.05) 3.93(.70)pos 3.93(.96) 4.27(1.03) 1.67(.98) 1.67(.97)neg 1.53(.64) 1.27(5.94) 4.07(1.22) 3.53(1.19)new 4.13(1.18) 4.53(.64) 3.87(1.30) 3.67(1.59)po-i 3.67(.82) 3.80(.78) 3.67(.72) 3.80(1.01)Table 1: Means and Standard deviations (between brack-ets) for the PN, PP, NP and NN texts for various vari-ables: pr-i interest in food before reading the text, theinf ormativeness of the message, the positive or negativepolarity of the message, new information and the po-ipost interest in the message.
All measured on a 5-pointScale: 1 = not at all, .
.
., 5 = extremely.pr-i = 2.89) before they read the test text.
The partic-ipants that read the negative messages (NN and NP)recognised that the message was negative (cf.
posand neg in Table 1).
Moreover, the NN-group ratedthe text more negatively than the NP-group (4.07 vs3.53).
The participants that read the positive mes-sage found that they had read a positive message.The PP-group rated their text slightly more positivethan the PN-group rated theirs.The bar chart presented in Figure 1 illustrates theresults of the PANAS questionnaire after reading thetexts.
In terms of the differences in message content(P* vs N*), there is a difference between the ratingsof the negative terms, which is as expected.
How-ever, there is no significant difference for the posi-tive terms, which were rated fairly similarly for allgroups.
Also, contrary to what was expected, the rat-ing of the negative PANAS terms by both N* groupsis lower than their rating of the positive terms.
Thehoped-for results for the positive/negative slantingare also not forthcoming - t-tests show no signifi-cant differences between the PN-group and the PP-group and no significant differences between theNN-group and the NP-group.
All mean ratings stayfar below 3, the ?moderate?
average of the scale.When looking at these results in more detail, it ap-pears that, of the positive PANAS terms, only ?ex-cited?
and ?inspired?
had a higher mean for the posi-tively worded message when comparing the positiveand the negative version of the positive message (PPand PN).
When comparing the positive and the neg-ative version of the negative message (NP vs NN),as expected, the NN-group has lower means for all 5positive terms than the NP group.From this study various conclusions can beFigure 1: Positive and negative PANAS means after theParticipants read the test text.drawn.
First of all, from the fact that only the lowerhalf of the 5-point PANAS scale was used it can beconcluded that the participants in this study seemto have difficulties with reporting on their emotions.This was the case both before and after the test textwas read.
Furthermore, participants seem to have apreference for reporting their positive emotions andfocus less on their negative emotions.
This can be in-ferred from the fact that the negative PANAS termsof the PP-group and the PN-group were lower thanthe means of the negative PANAS terms of the NN-group and the NP-group, but all groups had aboutthe same means for the positive PANAS terms.
Theinference that self-reporting of emotions is trouble-some is also indicated by the fact that the partici-pants of this full study seemed highly interested andinvolved in the experiment and in what they read inthe experiment texts.
The participants generally be-lieved the story they read and they expressed dis-appointment or relief when they were told the truthafter the experiment.
In addition, the descriptivesin Table 1 show that participants generally correctlyidentified the text they read as either positive or neg-ative.
Note that in this respect the more fine-graineddifferences between the PP-group and the PN-groupas well as the differences between the NN-group andthe NP-group also confirm our expectations.745 Conclusion and DiscussionThis paper presented our efforts to measure differ-ences in emotional effects invoked in readers.
Theseefforts were based on our assumption that the word-ing used to present a particular proposition mattersin how the message is received.
Participants?
judge-ments of the negative or positive nature of a text (inboth the text validation and in the full study) are inaccord with our predictions.
In terms of reflectiveanalysis of the text, therefore, participants behaveas we expected.
Although we strongly emphasisedthat we were interested in emotions with respect tothe test text, our attempts to measure the emotionaleffects invoked in readers caused by tactical text dif-ferences did, however, not produce any significantresults.There are several reasons that may have playeda role in this.
It may be that the emotion measur-ing methods we tried are not fine-grained enoughto measure the emotions that were invoked by thetexts.
As mentioned above, participants only usedpart of the PANAS scale and seemed to be reluc-tant to record their emotions (especially negativeones).
Other ways of recording levels of emotionalresponse that are more fine-grained than a 5-pointscale, such as magnitude estimation (Bard et al,1996), might be called for here.
Carrying out exper-iments with even more participants might reveal pat-terns that are obscured by noise in the current study,but this would be expensive.Alternatively, it could be that the differences be-tween the versions of the messages are just too sub-tle and/or that there is not enough text for these sub-tle differences to produce measurable effects.
In-deed, we are not aware of PANAS being used to as-sess purely textual effects before.
Perhaps it is nec-essary to immerse participants more fully in slantedtext in order to really affect them differently.
Orperhaps more extreme versions of slanting could befound.
Perhaps indeed the main way in which NLGcan achieve effects on emotions is through appro-priate content determination (strategy), rather thanthrough lexical or presentation differences (tactics).Another reason could still be a lack of involve-ment of the participants of the study.
Although theparticipants of the full study indicated their enthu-siasm for the study as well as their interest in thetopic and the message, they may have felt that thenews did not affect them too much, because theyconsidered themselves as responsible people whenit comes to health and food issues.
We are design-ing a follow up experiment in which, to increase thereader?s involvement, a feedback task is used, whereparticipants play a game or answer some questionsafter which they receive feedback on their perfor-mance.
The study will aim to measure the emotionaleffects of slanting this feedback text in a positive ora negative way.
As in such a feedback situation thetest text is directly related to the participants?
ownperformance, we expect an increased involvementand stronger emotions.As argued above, the results of our study seemto indicate that self-reporting of emotions is diffi-cult.
This could be because participants do not liketo show their emotions, because the emotions in-voked by what they read were just not very strongor because they do not have good conscious accessto their emotions.
Although self-reporting is widelyused in Psychology, it could be that participants arenot (entirely) reporting their true emotions, and thatmaybe this matters more when effects are likely tobe subtle.
In all of these situations, the solutioncould be to use additional measuring methods (e.g.physiological methods), and to check if the results ofsuch methods can strengthen the results of the ques-tionnaires.
Another option is to use an objective ob-server during the experiment (e.g.
videotaping theparticipants and observing the duration of smiles orfrowns) to judge whether the subject is affected.Yet another possibility would be only to measureemotional effects via performance on a task that isknown to be facilitated by particular emotions.
Forinstance, one could use the methods of (Carenini andMoore, 2000) to measure persuasiveness of differenttextual realisations that may induce emotions.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the EPSRCgrant ?Affecting people with natural language?
(EP/E011764/1) and also in part by Science Foun-dation Ireland under a CSET grant (NGL/CSET).We would like to thank the people who contributedto this study, most notably Louise Phillips, EmielKrahmer, Linda Moxey, Graeme Ritchie, JudithMasthoff, Albert Gatt and Kees van Deemter.75ReferencesE.
G. Bard, D. Robertson, and A. Sorace.
1996.
Magni-tude estimation of linguistic acceptability.
Language,72(1):32?68.G.
Carenini and J. D. Moore.
2000.
An empirical studyof the influence of argument conciseness on argumenteffectiveness.
In Proceedings of the 38th annual meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics.F.
DeRosis, F. Grasso, and D. Berry.
1999.
Refininginstructional text generation after evaluation.
ArtificialIntelligence in Medicine, 17(1):1?36.M.
Finucane, P. Slovic, C. Mertz, J. Flynn, and T. Sat-terfield.
2000.
Gender, race, and perceived risk: the?white male?
effect.
Health, Risk & Society, 2(2):159?
172.P.
Lang, 1980.
Technology in Mental Health Care De-livery Systems, chapter Behavioral Treatment and Bio-behavioral Assessment: Computer Applications, page119 137.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.J.-E. Lee, C. Nass, S. Brave, Y. Morishima, H. Nakajima,and R. Yamada.
2007.
The case for caring co-learners:The effects of a computer-mediated co-learner agenton trust and learning.
Journal of Communication.A.
Mackinnon, A. Jorm, H. Christensen, A. Korten, P. Ja-comb, and B. Rodgers.
1999.
A short form of the pos-itive and negative affect schedule: evaluation of fac-torial validity and invariance across demographic vari-ables in a community sample.
Personality and Indi-vidual Differences, 27(3):405?416.L.
Moxey and A. Sanford.
2000.
Communicating quan-tities: A review of psycholinguistic evidence of howexpressions determine perspectives.
Applied Cogni-tive Psychology, 14(3):237?255.J.
Oberlander and A. Gill.
2004.
Individual differencesand implicit language: Personality, parts-of-speechand pervasiveness.
In Proceedings of the 26th AnnualConference of the Cognitive Science Society.Helmut Prendinger, Christian Becker, and MitsuruIshizuka.
2006.
A study in users?
physiological re-sponse to an empathic interface agent.
InternationalJournal of Humanoid Robotics, 3(3):371?391.E.
Reiter, R. Robertson, and L. Osman.
2003.
Lessonsfrom a failure: Generating tailored smoking cessationletters.
Artificial Intelligence, 144:41?58.F.
De Rosis and F Grasso.
2000.
Affective natural lan-guage generation.
In A. Paiva, editor, Affective Inter-actions.
Springer LNAI 1814.J.
Russell, A. Weiss, and G. Mendelsohn.
1989.
Af-fect grid: A single-item scale of pleasure and arousal.Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 57:493?502.K.
Teigen and W. Brun.
2003.
Verbal probabilities: Aquestion of frame.
Journal of Behavioral DecisionMaking, 16:53?72.D.
Watson, L. Clark, and A. Tellegen.
1988.
Develop-ment and validation of brief measures of positive andnegative affect: The PANAS scales.
Journal of Per-sonality and Social Psychology, 54(1063-1070).S.
Williams and E. Reiter.
forthcoming.
Generating basicskills reports for lowskilled readers.
Journal of Natu-ral Language Engineering.76
