Proceedings of the Third ACL Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 19?26,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsKing Alfred: A Translation Environment for Learners of Anglo-SaxonEnglishLisa N. MichaudComputer Science DepartmentSt.
Anselm CollegeManchester, NH 03102lmichaud@anselm.eduAbstractKing Alfred is the name of both an innovativetextbook and a computational environment de-ployed in parallel in an undergraduate courseon Anglo-Saxon literature.
This paper de-tails the ways in which it brings dynamically-generated resources to the aid of the languagestudent.
We store the feature-rich grammarof Anglo-Saxon in a bi-level glossary, providean annotation context for use during the trans-lation task, and are currently working towardthe implementation of automatic evaluation ofstudent-generated translations.1 IntroductionCriticisms of the application of computational toolstoward language learning have often highlightedthe reality that the mainstays of modern languageteaching?including dialogue and a focus on com-municative goals over syntactic perfectionism?parallel the shortcomings of computational environ-ment.
While efforts continue to extend the state ofthe art toward making the computer a conversationalpartner, they nevertheless often fall short of pro-viding the language learner with learning assistancein the task of communicative competence that canmake a real difference within or without the class-room.The modern learner of ancient or ?dead?
lan-guages, however, has fundamentally different needs;learners are rarely asked to produce utterances in thelanguage being learned (L2).
Instead of communi-cation or conversation, the focus is on translationfrom source texts into the learner?s native language(L1).
This translation task typically involves annota-tion of the source text as syntactic data in the L2 aredecoded, and often requires the presence of manyauxiliary resources such as grammar texts and glos-saries.Like many learners of ancient languages, the stu-dent of Anglo-Saxon English must acquire detailedknowledge of syntactic and morphological featuresthat are far more complex than those of ModernEnglish.
Spoken between circa A.D. 500 and 1066,Anglo-Saxon or ?Old?
English comprises a lexiconand a grammar both significantly removed from thatof what we speak today.
We therefore view the taskof learning Anglo-Saxon to be that of acquiring aforeign language even to speakers of Modern Eng-lish.In the Anglo-Saxon Literature course at WheatonCollege1, students tackle this challenging languagewith the help of King Alfred?s Grammar (Drout,2005).
This text challenges the learner with astepped sequence of utterances, both original anddrawn from ancient texts, whose syntactic complex-ity complements the lessons on the language.
Thistext has recently been enhanced with an electroniccounterpart that provides the student with a novelenvironment to aid in the translation task.
Servicesprovided by the system include:?
A method to annotate the source text withgrammatical features as they are decoded.?
Collocation of resources for looking up orquerying grammatical- and meaning-relateddata.?
Tracking the student?s successes and chal-lenges in order to direct reflection and furtherstudy.1Norton, Massachusetts19Figure 1: The main workspace for translation in King Alfred.This paper overviews the current status of theKing Alfred tutorial system and enumerates some ofour current objectives.2 System OverviewKing Alfred is a web-accessible tutorial environ-ment that interfaces with a central database servercontaining a curriculum sequence of translation ex-ercises (Drout, 1999).
It is currently implemented asa Java applet using the Connector/J class interfaceto obtain curricular, glossary, and user data from aserver running MySQL v5.0.45.When a student begins a new exercise, the originalAnglo-Saxon sentence appears above a text-entrywindow in which the student can type his or hertranslation as seen in Figure 1.
Below this window,a scratch pad interface provides the student with anopportunity to annotate each word with grammati-cal features, or to query the system for those dataif needed.
This simultaneously replaces traditionalannotation (scribbling small notes in between linesof the source text) and the need to refer to auxiliaryresources such as texts describing lexical items andmorphological patterns.
More on how we addressthe latter will be described in the next section.When the student is finished with the translation,she clicks on a ?Submit?
button and progresses to asecond screen in which her translation is displayedalongside a stored instructor?s translation from thedatabase.
Based on the correctness of scratch padannotations aggregated over several translation ex-ercises, the system gives feedback in the form ofa simple message, such as King Alfred is pleasedwith your work on strong nouns and personal pro-nouns, or King Alfred suggests that you should re-view weak verbs.
The objective of this feedbackis to give the students assistance in their own self-directed study.
Additional, more detailed informa-tion about the student?s recorded behavior is view-able through an open user model interface if the stu-dent desires.3 Resources for the Translation TaskAs part of the scratch pad interface, the student canannotate a lexical unit with the value of any of a widerange of grammatical features dependent upon thepart of speech.
After the student has indicated thepart of speech, the scratch pad presents an interfacefor this further annotation as seen in Figure 2, whichshows the possible features to annotate for the verbfeoll.Figure 2: A scratch pad menu for the verb feoll.The scratch pad provides the student with the op-portunity to record data (either correctly, in whichcase the choice is accepted, or incorrectly, where thestudent is notified of having made a mistake) or to toquery the system for the answer.
While student usersare strongly encouraged to make educated guessesbased on the morphology of the word, thrashingblindly is discouraged; if the information is key tothe translation, and the student does not have anyidea, asking the system to Tell me!
is preferableto continually guessing wrong and it allows the stu-dent to get ?unstuck?
and continue with the transla-20tion.
None of the interaction with the scratch pad ismandatory; the translator can proceed without everusing it.
It merely exists to simultaneously allow forrecording data as it is decoded, or to query for datawhen it is needed.Figure 3: Querying King Alfred for help.3.1 Lexical LookupLike most Anglo-Saxon texts, King Alfred also con-tains a glossary which comprises all of the Anglo-Saxon words in the exercise corpus.
These glos-saries typically contain terms in ?bare?
or ?root?form, stripped of their inflection.
A novice learnerhas to decode the root of the word she is viewing(no easy task if the inflection is irregular, or if she isunaware, for example, which of seven declensionsa verb belongs to) in order to determine the wordto search for in the glossary, a common stumblingblock (Colazzo and Costantino, 1998).
The infor-mation presented under such a root-form entry isalso incomplete; the learner can obtain the meaningof the term, but may be hampered in the translationtask by not knowing for certain how this particularinstance is inflected (e.g., that this is the third per-son singular present indicative form), or which ofthe possible meanings is being used in this particu-lar sentence.Alternatively, a text can present terms in their sur-face form, exactly as they appear in the exercise cor-pus.
This approach, while more accessible to thelearner, has several drawbacks, including the factthat glossary information (such as the meaning ofthe word and the categories to which it belongs) iscommon to all the different inflected versions, andit would be redundant to include that informationseparately for each surface form.
Also, in such anentry the user may not be able to discover the rootform, which may make it more difficult to recognizeother terms that share the same root.
To avoid theseissues, a glossary may contain both, with every sur-face form annotated with the information about itsinflection and then the root entry shown so that thereader may look up the rest of the information.We believe we can do better than this.
In orderto incorporate the advantages of both forms of glos-sary data, we have implemented two separate but in-terlinked glossaries, where each of the surface real-izations is connected to the root entry from whichit is derived.
Because electronic media enable thedynamic assembly of information, the learner is notobligated to do two separate searches for the infor-mation; displaying a glossary entry shows both thespecific, contextual information of the surface formand the general, categorical data of the root formin one presentation.
This hybrid glossary view isshown in Figure 4.Figure 4: A partial screen shot of the King Alfred glos-sary browser.3.2 Surface and Root FormsTo build this dual-level glossary, we have lever-aged the Entity-Relationship Model as an architec-ture on which to structure King Alfred?s curriculumof sentences and the accompanying glossary.
Fig-ure 5 shows a partial Entity-Relationship diagramfor the relevant portion of the curriculum database,in which:?
Sentences are entities on which are stored var-ious attributes, including a holistic translationof the entire sentence provided by the instruc-tor.?
The relationship has word connects Sentences21to Words, the collection of which forms the sur-face level of our glossary.
The instances ofthis relationship include the ordinality of theword within the sentence; the actual sentenceis, therefore, not found as a single string inthe database, but is constructed dynamically atneed by obtaining the words in sequence fromthe glossary.
Each instance of the relationshipalso includes the translation of the word in thespecific context of this sentence.2?
The entity set Words contains the actual or-thography of the word as it appears (text)and through an additional relationship set (notshown) is connected to all of the grammaticalfeatures specific to a surface realization (e.g.for a noun, person=third, number=singular,case=nominative).?
The relationship has root links entries fromthe surface level of the glossary to their corre-sponding entry at the root level.?
The Roots glossary has the orthography of theroot form (text), possible definitions of thisword, and through another relationship set notin the figure, data on other syntactic categoriesgeneral to any realization of this word.Since the root form must be displayed in some formin the glossary, we have adopted the convention thatthe root of a verb is its infinitive form, the roots ofnouns are the singular, nominative forms, and theroots of determiners and adjectives are the singular,masculine, nominative forms.Other related work does not explicitly representthe surface realization in the lexicon; the system de-scribed by (Colazzo and Costantino, 1998), for ex-ample, uses a dynamic word stemming algorithm tolook up a surface term in a glossary of root formsby stripping off the possible suffixes; however, it isunable to recognize irregular forms or to handle am-biguous stems.
GLOSSER (Nerbonne et al, 1998)2This does not negate the necessity of the holistic translationof the sentence, because Anglo-Saxon is a language with veryrich morphology, and therefore is far less reliant upon wordorder to determine grammatical role than Modern English.
Inmany Anglo-Saxon sentences, particularly when set in verse,the words are ?scrambled?
compared to how they would appearin a translation.Figure 5: A piece of the Entity-Relationship diagramshowing the relationships of Sentences, Words, andRoots.for Dutch learners of French also automatically ana-lyzes surface terms to link them to their stem entriesand to other related inflections, but shares the sameproblem with handling ambiguity.Our approach ensures that no term is misidentifiedby an automatic process which may be confused byambiguous surface forms, and none of these systemsallows the learner access to which of the possiblemeanings of the term is being used in this particu-lar context.
The result of King Alfred?s architectureis a pedagogically accurate glossary which has anefficiency of storage and yet dynamically pulls to-gether the data stored at multiple levels to present thelearner with all of the morphosyntactic data whichshe requires.3.3 Adding to the GlossaryBecause there is no pre-existing computational lex-icon for Anglo-Saxon we can use and because cre-ating new translation sentences within this databasearchitecture via direct database manipulation is ex-ceedingly time consuming?and inaccessible for thenovice user?we have equipped King Alfred withan extensive instructor?s interface which simultane-ously allows for the creation of new sentences in thecurriculum and the expansion of the glossary to ac-commodate the new material.3The instructor first types in an Anglo-Saxon sen-tence, using special buttons to insert any non-ASCIIcharacters from the Anglo-Saxon alphabet.
A holis-3All changes created by this interface are communicated di-rectly to the stored curriculum in the central server.22tic translation of the entire sentence is entered at thistime as well.
The interface then begins to processeach word of the sentence in turn.
At each step, theinstructor views the entire sentence with the wordcurrently being processed highlighted:?
Sum mann feoll on ise.The essential process for each word is as follows:1.
The system searches for the word in the surfaceglossary to see if it has already occurred in aprevious sentence.
All matches are displayed(there are multiple options if the same realiza-tion can represent more than one inflection) andthe instructor may indicate which is a match forthis occurrence.
If a match is found, the wordhas been fully processed; otherwise, the inter-face continues to the next step.2.
The instructor is prompted to create a new sur-face entry.
The first step is to see if the rootof this word already exists in the root glossary;in a process similar to the above, the instruc-tor may browse the root glossary and select amatch.
(a) If the root for this word (feallan in ourexample) already exists, the instructor se-lects it and then provides only the addi-tional information specific to this realiza-tion (e.g.
tense=past, person=3rd, num-ber=singular, and mood=indicative).
(b) Otherwise, the instructor is asked to pro-vide the root form and then is presentedwith an interface to select features for boththe surface and root forms (the above,plus class=strong, declension=7th, defin-ition=?to fall?
).When this process has been completed for eachword, the sentence is finally stored as a sequenceof indices into the surface glossary, which now con-tains entries for all of the terms in this sentence.
Theinstructor?s final input is to associate a contextualgloss (specific to this particular sentence) with eachword (these are used as ?hints?
for the students whenthey are translating and need extra help).4 Automatically Scoring a TranslationWhen initially envisioned, King Alfred did not as-pire to automatic grading of the student-generatedtranslation because of the large variation in possibletranslations and the risk of discouraging a studentwho has a perfectly valid alternative interpretation(Drout, 1999).
We now believe, however, that KingAlfred?s greatest benefit to the student may be inproviding accurate, automatic feedback to a trans-lation that takes the variety of possible translationresults into account.Recent work on machine translation evaluationhas uncovered methodologies for automatic evalu-ation that we believe we can adapt to our purposes.Techniques that analyze n-gram precision such asBLEU score (Papineni et al, 2002) have been devel-oped with the goal of comparing candidate transla-tions against references provided by human expertsin order to determine accuracy; although in our ap-plication the candidate translator is a student and nota machine, the principle is the same, and we wish toadapt their technique to our context.Our approach will differ from the n-gram preci-sion of BLEU score in several key ways.
Most im-portantly, BLEU score only captures potential cor-rect translations but equally penalizes errors withoutregard to how serious these errors are.
This is not ac-ceptable in a pedagogical context; take, for example,the following source sentence4:(1) Sum mann feoll on ise.The instructor?s translation is given as:(2) One man fell on the ice.Possible student translations might include:(3) One man fell on ice.
(4) Some man fell on the ice.In the case of translation (3), the determiner beforethe indirect object is implied by the case of the noun4This example sentence, also used earlier in this paper, re-flects words that are very well preserved in Modern English tohelp the reader see the parallel elements in translation; mostsentences in Anglo-Saxon are not nearly so accessible, such asshown in example (5).23ise but not, in the instructor?s opinion, required at all.Translation (3) is therefore as valid as the instruc-tor?s.
Translation (4), on the other hand, reflects thepresence of the faux ami, or false friend, in the formof sum, which looks like Modern English ?some?
butshould not be translated as such.
This is a minormistake which should be corrected but not seen as areflection of a serious underlying grammatical mis-conception.Adverbs that modify the main verb also have flex-ible placement:(5) ?a wurdon ?a mynstermen miccle afyrhte.
(6) Then the monks became greatly fright-ened.
(7) The monks then became greatly fright-ened.
(8) The monks became then greatly fright-ened.
(9) The monks became greatly frightenedthen.And there are often many acceptable translations ofa given word:(10) Then the monks became greatly afraid.What we wish to focus our attention on mostclosely are misinterpretations of the morphologicalmarkers on the source word, resulting in a misin-flected translation:(11) Then the monks become greatly fright-ened.This is a difference which is most salient in a ped-agogical context.
Assuming that the student is un-likely to make an error in generating an utterance inher native language, it can be concluded that such anerror reflects a misinterpretation of the source mor-phology.A summary of the differences between our pro-posed approach and that of (Papineni et al, 2002)would include:?
The reliance of BLEU on the diversity of mul-tiple reference translations in order to capturesome of the acceptable alternatives in bothword choice and word ordering that we haveshown above.
At this time, we have only onereference translation with which to compare thecandidate; however, we have access to other re-sources which can be applied to the task, as dis-cussed below.?
The reality that automatic MT scoring usuallyhas little to no grammatical data available foreither the source or target strings of text.
We,however, have part of speech tags for each ofthe source words encoded as part of the curricu-lum database; we also have encoded the wordor short phrase to which the source word trans-lates, which for any target word occurring in thecandidate translation essentially grants it a partof speech tag.
This means that we can build inflexibility regarding such elements as adverbsand determiners when the context would allowfor optional inclusion (in the case of determin-ers) or multiple placements (in the case of ad-verbs).?
Multiple possible translations of the word cancome from a source other than multiple transla-tors.
We intend to attempt to leverage WordNet(Fellbaum, 1998) in situations where a candi-date word does not occur in the reference trans-lation to determine if it has a synonym thatdoes.
The idea of recognizing a word that doesnot match the target but nevertheless has a re-lated meaning has previously been explored ina the context of answers to reading comprehen-sion questions by (Bailey, 2007).?
Minor mistranslations such as sum/some due tofaux amis can be captured in the glossary as akind of ?bug rule?
capturing typical learner er-rors.?
Other mistranslations, including using thewrong translation of a source word for the con-text in which it occurs?a common enoughproblem whenever a novice learner relies ona glossary for translation assistance?can becaught by matching the multiple possible trans-lations of a root form against an unmatchedword in the candidate translation.
Some mor-phological processing may have to be done24to match a stem meaning against the inflectedform occurring in the candidate translation.?
The primary focus of the automatic scoringwould be the misinflected word which can bealigned with a word from the reference trans-lation but is not inflected in the same way.Again, morphological processing will be re-quired to be able to pair together mismatchedsurface forms, with the intention of achievingtwo goals:1.
Marking in the student model that a mis-interpretation has occurred.2.
Giving the user targeted feedback on howthe source word was mistranslated.With this extension, King Alfred would be em-powered to record much richer data on student com-petency in Anglo-Saxon by noting which structuresand features she translates correctly, and which shehas struggled with.
Such a model of student linguis-tic mastery can be a powerful aid to provide instruc-tional feedback, as discussed in (Michaud and Mc-Coy, 2000; Michaud and McCoy, 2006; Michaud etal., 2001).5 Other New DirectionsOngoing work with the glossary browser includesenhancements to include dynamically generated ref-erences to other occurrences of words from the samestem or root throughout the translation corpus in or-der to reflect other inflected forms in their contextsas many dictionaries do.This, however, is a relatively simplistic attempt toillustrate the pattern of morphological inflection of aroot to the learner.
A long-term plan is to incorporateinto King Alfred a full morphological engine encod-ing the inflection patterns of Anglo-Saxon Englishso that the surface glossary is only needed as a col-lection of the feature values active in a specific con-text; with the ability to dynamically generate fullyinflected forms from the root forms, King Alfredwould empower the learner to access lessons on in-flection using the specific words occurring in a sen-tence currently being translated.We are unaware of any existing efforts to en-code Anglo-Saxon morphology in such a fashion,although in other learning contexts the system WordManager (Hacken and Tschichold, 2001) displays alexicon grouping other words applying the same in-flection or formation rule in order to aid the learnerin acquiring the rule, a similar goal.6 ConclusionKing Alfred was deployed in the Anglo-Saxonliterature course at Wheaton College in the Fallsemesters of 2005 and 2007.
Preliminary feedbackindicates that the students found the hybrid glos-sary very useful and the collocation of translationresources to be of great benefit to them in complet-ing their homework assignments.
Ongoing researchaddresses the aggregation of student model data andhow the system may best aid the students in theirindependent studies.We are most excited, however, about how we mayleverage the structuring of the curriculum databaseinto our dual-level linguistic ontology toward thetask of automatically evaluating translations.
Webelieve strongly that this will not only enhance thestudent experience but also provide a rich stream ofdata concerning student mastery of syntactic con-cepts.
The primary objective of student modelingwithin King Alfred is to provide tailored feedbackto aid students in future self-directed study of thelinguistic concepts being taught.7 AcknowledgmentsThe Anglo-Saxon course at Wheaton College istaught by Associate Professor of English MichaelDrout.
Student/faculty collaboration on this projecthas been extensively supported by Wheaton grantsfrom the Davis, Gebbie, and Mars Foundations, andthe Emily C. Hood Fund for the Arts and Sciences.We would particularly like to thank previous under-graduate student collaborators David Dudek, RachelKappelle, and Joseph Lavoine.ReferencesStacey Bailey.
2007.
On automatically evaluating an-swers to reading comprehension questions.
Presentedat CALICO-2007, San Marcos, Texas, May 24-26.Luigi Colazzo and Marco Costantino.
1998.
Multi-userhypertextual didactic glossaries.
International Journalof Artificial Intelligence in Education, 9:111?127.25Michael D. C. Drout.
1999.
King Alfred: A teacher con-trolled, web interfaced Old English learning assistant.Old English Newsletter, 33(1):29?34, Fall.Michael D. C. Drout.
2005.
King Alfred?s Grammar.Version 4.0.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press.Pius Ten Hacken and Cornelia Tschichold.
2001.
Wordmanager and CALL: structured access to the lexiconas a tool for enriching learners?
vocabulary.
ReCALL,13(1):121?131.Lisa N. Michaud and Kathleen F. McCoy.
2000.
Sup-porting intelligent tutoring in CALL by modeling theuser?s grammar.
In Proceedings of the ThirteenthInternational Florida Artificial Intelligence ResearchSociety Conference (FLAIRS-2000), pages 50?54, Or-lando, Florida, May 22-24.
FLAIRS.Lisa N. Michaud and Kathleen F. McCoy.
2006.
Cap-turing the evolution of grammatical knowledge in aCALL system for deaf learners of English.
Interna-tional Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education,16(1):65?97.Lisa N. Michaud, Kathleen F. McCoy, and Litza A. Stark.2001.
Modeling the acquisition of English: an intelli-gent CALL approach.
In Mathias Bauer, Piotr J. Gmy-trasiewicz, and Julita Vassileva, editors, Proceedingsof the 8th International Conference on User Model-ing, volume 2109 of Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelli-gence, pages 14?23, Sonthofen, Germany, July 13-17.Springer.John Nerbonne, Duco Dokter, and Petra Smit.
1998.Morphological processing and Computer-AssistedLanguage Learning.
Computer-Assisted LanguageLearning, 11(5):421?37.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a method for automatic eval-uation of machine translation.
In Proceedings of the40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 311?318, Philadelphia, PA,July 6-12.
ACL.26
