Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Knowledge and Reasoning for Answering Questions, pages 9?16Manchester, August 2008Context Inducing NounsCharlotte PricePalo Alto Research Center3333 Coyote Hill Rd.Palo Alto, CA 94304 USAlprice@parc.comValeria de PaivaPalo Alto Research Center3333 Coyote Hill Rd.Palo Alto, CA 94304 USAvaleria.paiva@gmail.comTracy Holloway KingPalo Alto Research Center3333 Coyote Hill Rd.Palo Alto, CA 94304 USAthking@parc.comAbstractIt is important to identify complement-taking nouns in order to properly analyzethe grammatical and implicative structureof the sentence.
This paper examines theways in which these nouns were identifiedand classified for addition to the BRIDGEnatural language understanding system.1 IntroductionOne of the goals of computational linguistics is todraw inferences from a text: that is, for the sys-tem to be able to process a text, and then to con-clude, based on the text, whether some other state-ment is true.1 Clausal complements confound theprocess because, despite their surface similarity toadjuncts, they generate very different inferences.In this paper we examine complement-takingnouns: how to identify them and how to incorpo-rate them into an inferencing system.
We first dis-cuss what we mean by complement-taking nouns(section 2) and how to identify a list of suchnouns (section 3).
We then describe the question-answering system that uses the complement-takingnouns as part of its inferencing (section 4), how thenouns are added to the system (section 5), and howthe coverage is tested (section 6).
Finally, we dis-cuss several avenues for future work (section 7),including automating the search process, identify-ing other context-inducing forms, and taking ad-vantage of cross-linguistic data.c 2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.1We would like to thank the Natural Language Theory andTechnology group at PARC, Dick Crouch, and the three re-viewers for their input.2 What is a complement-taking noun?Identifying complement-taking nouns is somewhatinvolved.
It is important to identify the clause, toensure that the clause is indeed a complement andnot an adjunct (e.g.
a relative clause or a purposeinfinitive), and to figure out what is licensing thecomplement, as it is not only nouns that licensecomplements.2.1 Verbal vs. nominal complementsA clause is a portion of a sentence that includes apredicate and its arguments.
Clauses come in a va-riety of forms, a subset of which is shown in (1)for verbs taking complements.
The italicized partis the complement, and the part in bold is what li-censes it.
The surface form of the clause can varysignificantly depending on the licensing verb.
(1) a. Mary knows that Bob is happy.b.
John wants (Mary) to leave right now.c.
John likes fixing his bike.d.
John let Mary fix his bike.For this paper, we touch briefly on nouns takingto clauses, as in (2b), but the main focus is on thatclauses, as in (2a).
(2) a. the fact that Mary hoppedb.
the courage to hopBoth types of complements pose problems inmining corpora for lexicon development.
The thatclauses can superficially resemble relative clauses,as in (3), and the to clauses can resemble purposeinfinitives, as in (4).
(3) a. COMPLEMENT-TAKING NOUN: Johnliked the idea that Mary sang lastevening.9b.
RELATIVE CLAUSE: John liked the songthat Mary sang last evening.
(4) a. COMPLEMENT-TAKING NOUN: John hada chance to sing that song.b.
PURPOSE INFINITIVE: John had a songbook (in order) to sing that song.As discussed in section 3, this superficial re-semblance makes the automatic identification ofcomplement-taking nouns very difficult: simplestring-based searches would return large numbersof incorrect candidates which would have to be vet-ted before incorporating the new nouns into thesystem.2.2 Contexts introduced by nominalsComplements and relative clause adjuncts allowvery different inferences.
Whereas the speaker?sbeliefs about adjuncts take on the truth value ofthe clause they are embedded in, the truth value ofclausal complements is also affected by the licens-ing noun.
Compare the sentences below.
The itali-cized clause in (5) is a complement, while in (6) itis an adjunct.
(5) The lie that Mary was ill paralyzed Bob.Mary was not ill.(6) The situation that she had gotten herself intoparalyzed Bob.
She had gotten herselfinto a situation.To explain how this is possible, we introduce thenotion of implicative contexts (Nairn et al, 2006),and claim that complement-taking nouns introducea context for the complement, whereas no suchcontext is created for the adjuncts.
Perhaps the eas-iest way to think of a context is to imagine em-bedding the complement in an extra layer, with thelayer adding information about how to adjust thetruth-value of its contents.2 This allows us to con-clude in (5) that the speaker believes that Mary andBob exist, as does the event of Bob?s paralysis, butthe event Mary was ill does not.
These are ref-ered to as the (un)instantiability of the componentsin the sentence.
Contexts can be embedded withineach other recursively, as in (7).
Note that these se-mantic contexts often, but not always, correspondto syntactic embedding.2In the semantic representations, the contexts are flattened,or projected, onto the leaf nodes of the parse tree, so that everyleaf has access to information locally.
(7) Paul believes [that John?s lie [that Mary wor-ries [that fish can fly]] surprised us].Contexts may have an implication signature(Nairn et al, 2006) attached to them, specifying,for example, that the clause is something that thespeaker presupposes to be true or that the speakerbelieves the truth value of the clause should be re-versed.
The default for a context is to allow noimplications to be drawn, as in (1b), where thespeaker has not committed to whether or not Maryis leaving.Below is a more detailed example showing howthe context introduced by a noun changes the im-plications of the sentence, and how it would behavedifferently from a relative clause adjunct to a noun.Consider the pair of sentences in (8).
(8) a.
The lie that Mary had won surprised John.Mary did not win.b.
The bonus that Mary had won surprisedJohn.
Mary won a bonus.In (8), that John was surprised is in the speaker?stop context, which is what the author commits to astruth.
In (8a), lie is within the context of surprised.Surprised does not change the implications of ele-ments within its context.3 Therefore, lie gets a truevalue: that a lie was told is considered true.
ThatMary won, however, is within the context of lie,which reverses the polarity of implications withinits scope or context.
If that Mary won were onlywithin the context of surprised instead of withinlie, which would be the case if lie did not createa context, then that Mary won would fall withinthe context of surprised.
The implication signa-ture of surprised would determine the veridicalityof the embedded clause instead of the signature oflie: this would incorrectly allow the conclusion thatMary won.The content of the relative clause in (8b) is in thesame context as surprise since no additional con-text is introduced by bonus.
As such, we can con-clude that Mary did win a bonus.2.3 Complements introduced by toThe previous subsection focused on finite comple-ments introduced by that.
From the perspective3We say surprise has the implication signature ++/--: el-ements within its context have a positive implication in a pos-itive context and negative in a negative context.
See (Nairn etal., 2006) for detailed discussion of possible implication sig-natures and how to propagate them through contexts.10of aiding inferencing in the BRIDGE system, thenouns that take to complements that are not dever-bal nouns (see section 2.4 for discussion of dever-bals) seem to fall into three main classes:4 ability,bravery, and chance.
Examples are shown in (9).
(9) a. John has the ability to sing.b.
John has the guts to sing out loud.c.
John?s chance to sing came quickly.These all have an implication signature thatgives a (negative) implication only in a negativecontext, as in (10); in a positive context as in (9),no implication can be drawn.
(10) John didn?t have the opportunity to sing.John didn?t sing.Note also that the implication only applies whenthe verb is have.
Other light verbs, such as take in(11) change the implications.
(11) John took the opportunity to sing.John sang.For this reason, these nouns are treated differ-ently than those with that complements.
They aremarked in the grammar as taking a complement inthe same way that that complements are (section 5),but the mechanism which attaches an implicationsignature takes the governing verb into account.2.4 Deverbal nounsA large number of complement-taking nouns arerelated to verbs that take complements.
Thesenouns are analyzed differently than non-deverbalnouns.
They are linked to their related verb andclassified according to how the arguments of thenoun and the sentence relate to the arguments forthe verb (e.g.
-ee, -er).5 The BRIDGE system usesthis linking to map these nouns to their verbal coun-terparts and to draw conclusions of implicativity asif they were verbs, as explained in (Gurevich et al,2006).
Consider (12) where the paraphrases usingfear as a verb or a noun are clearly related.
(12) a.
The fear that Mary was ill paralyzed Bob.b.
Bob feared that Mary was ill; this fear par-alyzed Bob.4The work described in this section was done by LauriKarttunen and Karl Pichotta (Pichotta, 2008).5NOMLEX (Macleod et al, 1998) is an excellent source ofthese deverbal nouns.Deverbal nouns can take that complements or, asin (13), to complements.
Most often, the contextintroduced by a deverbal noun does not add an im-plication signature, as in (11), which results in theanswer UNKNOWN to the question Was Mary ill?.
(13) a. John?s promise to go swimming surprisedus.b.
John?s persuasion of Mary to sing at theparty surprised us.Gerunds, being even more verb-like, are treated asverbs in our system and hence inherit the implica-tive properties from the corresponding verb.
(14) Knowing that Mary had sung upset John.Mary sang.Gerunds and deverbal nouns are discussed in de-tail in (Gurevich et al, 2006) and are outside of thescope of this paper.3 Finding complement-taking nounsIn order for the system to draw the inferences dis-cussed above, the complement-taking nouns mustfirst be identified and then classified and incorpo-rated into the BRIDGE system (section 4).
First,the gerunds are removed since these are mapped bythe syntax into their verbal counterparts.
Then thenon-gerund deverbal nouns (section 2.4) are linkedto their verbal counterpart so that they can be ana-lyzed by the system as events.
These two classesrepresent a significant number of the nouns thattake that complements.3.1 Syntactic classificationHowever, there are many complement-takingnouns that are not deverbal.
To expand ourlexicon of these nouns, we started with a seedset garnered from the Penn Treebank (Marcus etal., 1994), which uses distinctive tree structuresfor complement-taking nouns, and a small listof linguistically prominent nouns.
For each ofthese lexical items, we extracted words in thesame semantic class from WordNet.
Classesinclude words like fact, which direct attentionto the clausal complement, as in (15), and nounsexpressing emotion, as in (16).
(15) It?s a fact that Mary came.
(16) Bob?s joy that Mary had returned reduced himto tears.11These semantic classes provided a starting pointfor discovering more of these nouns: the class ofemotion nouns, for example, has more than a hun-dred hyponyms.Identifying the class is not enough, as not allmembers take clausal complements.
Compare joyin (16) and warmheartedness in (17) from the emo-tion class.
The sentence containing joy is muchmore natural than that in (17).
(17) #Bob?s warmheartedness that Mary had re-turned reduced him to tears.From the candidate list, the deverbal nouns areadded to the lexicon of deverbal noun mappings.The remaining list is checked word-by-word.
Toease the process, test sentences that take a range ofmeanings are created for each class of nouns, as in(18).
(18) Bob?s that Mary visited her mother re-duced him to tears.If the noun does not fit the test sentences, aweb search is done on ?X that?
to extract po-tential complement-bearing sentences.
These arechecked to eliminate sentences with adjuncts, orwhere some other feature licenses the clause, suchas in (19) where the bold faced structure is licens-ing the italicized clause.
(19) a. John is so warmhearted that he took her inwithout question.b.
They had such a good friendship that shecould tell him anything.Using these methods, from a seed set of 13nouns, 170 non-deverbal complement-takingnouns were identified, most in the emotion andfeeling classes.
The same techniques were thenapplied to the state and information classes.
Oncethe Penn Treebank seeds were incorporated, thesame process was applied to the complement-taking nouns from NOMLEX (Macleod et al,1998).3.2 Determining implicationsAs examples (8a) and (8b) showed, whether a wordtakes a complement is lexically determined; so isthe type of implication signature introduced by theword.
Compare the implications in (20).
(20) a.
The fact that Mary had returned surprisedJohn.
Mary had returned.b.
The falsehood that Mary had returned sur-prised John.
Mary had not returned.c.
The possibility that Mary had returnedsurprised John.
?
Mary had returned.These nouns have different implication signa-tures: facts imply truth; lies imply falsehood; andpossibilities do not allow truth or falsehood to beestablished.
The default for complements is that noimplications can be drawn, as in (20c), which in theBRIDGE system is expressed as the noun having noimplication signature.6Once identified and its implication signature de-termined, adding the complement-taking noun tothe BRIDGE system and deriving the correct infer-ences is straightforward.
This process is describedin section 5.4 The BRIDGE systemThe BRIDGE system (Bobrow et al, 2007) includesa syntactic grammar, a semantics rule set (Crouchand King, 2006), an abstract knowledge represen-tation (AKR) rule set, and an entailment and con-tradiction detection (ECD) system.
The syntax, se-mantics, and AKR all depend on lexicons.The BRIDGE grammar defines syntactic proper-ties of words, such as predicate-argument structure,tense, number, and nominal specifiers.
The gram-mar produces a packed representation of the sen-tence which allows ambiguity to be dealt with effi-ciently (Maxwell and Kaplan, 1991).The parses are passed to the semantic ruleswhich also work on packed structures (Crouch,2005).
The semantic layer looks up words in aUnified Lexicon (UL), connects surface argumentsof verbs to their roles, and determines the contextwithin which a word occurs in the sentence.
Nega-tion introduces a context, as do the complement-taking nouns discussed here (Bobrow et al, 2005).The UL combines several sources of information(Crouch and King, 2005).
Much of the informationcomes from the syntactic lexicon, VerbNet (Kipperet al, 2000), and WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), butthere are also handcoded entries that add semanti-cally relevant information such as its implicationsignature.
A sample UL entry is given in Figure 1.The current number of complement-takingnouns in the system is shown in (21).
Only a6A context is still generated for these.
Adjuncts, having nocontext of their own, inherit the implication signature of theclause containing them (section 2.2).12(cat(N), word(fact), subcat(NOUN-EXTRA),concept(%1),source(hand annotated data), source(xle),xfr:concept for(%1,fact),xfr:lex class(%1,impl pp nn),xfr:wordnet classes(%1,[])).Figure 1: One entry for the word fact in the Uni-fied Lexicon.
NOUN-EXTRA states that this use offact fits in structures such as it is a fact that TheWordNet meaning is found by looking up the con-cept for fact in the WordNet database.
The implica-tion signature of the word is impl pp nn or ++/--as seen in (22).
Lastly, the sources for this informa-tion are noted.fifth of the nouns have implication signatures.However, all of the nouns introduce contexts; thedefault implication for contexts is to allow neithertrue nor false to be concluded, as in (20c).
(21)Complement-taking Nounsthat complements 411to complements 173with implication signatures 107The output of the semantics level is fed intothe AKR.
At this level, contexts are used to deter-mine (un)instantiability based on the relationshipbetween contexts.7 An entity?s (un)instantiabilityencodes whether it exists in some context.
In (8a),for example, we can conclude that the speaker be-lieves that Mary exists, but that the event Mary wonis uninstantiated: the speaker believes it did nothappen.The final layer is the ECD, which uses the struc-tures built by the AKR to reason about a givenpassage-query pair to determine whether or not thequery is inferred by the passage, answering withYES, NO, UNKNOWN, or AMBIGUOUS.
For moredetails, see (Bobrow et al, 2005).5 Adding complement-taking nouns tothe systemAdding complement-taking nouns to the BRIDGEsystem is straightforward.
A syntactic entry isadded indicating that the noun takes a complement.The syntactic classes are defined by templates, andthe relevant template is called in the lexical en-try for that word.
For example, the template call7See (Bobrow et al, 2007; Bobrow et al, 2005) for otherinformation contained in the AKR.
@(NOUN-EXTRA %stem) is added to the entry forfact.If there is an implication signature for the com-plement, this is added to the noun?s entry in thefile for hand-annotated data used to build the UL.The fifth line in Figure 1 is an example.
The AKRand ECD rules that calculate the context and im-plications on verbs and deverbal nouns general-ize to handle implications on complement-takingnouns and so do not need to be altered as newcomplement-taking nouns are found.As described in section 3, deciding which nounstake complements is currently hand curated, as it isquite difficult to distinguish them entirely automat-ically.6 TestingTo ensure that complement-taking nouns are work-ing properly in the system, for each noun, apassage-query-correct answer triplet such as:(22) PASSAGE: The fact that Mary had returnedsurprised John.QUERY: Had Mary returned?ANSWER: YESis added to a testsuite.
The testsuites are run andthe results reported as part of the daily regres-sion testing (Chatzichrisafis et al, 2007).
Bothnaturally occurring and hand-crafted examples areused to ensure that the correct implications arebeing drawn.
Natural examples test interactionsbetween phenomena such as noun complementa-tion and copular constructions, while hand-craftedexamples allow isolation of the phenomenon andshow that all cases are being tested (Cohen et al,2008), e.g., that the correct entailments emerge un-der negation as well as in the positive case.Our current testsuites contain about 180 hand-crafted examples.
The number of natural exam-ples is harder to count as they occur somewhatrarely in the mixed-phenomena testsuites.
Oneof our natural example files, which is based onnewswire extracts from the PASCAL RecognizingTextual Entailment Challenge (Dagan et al, 2005),shows an approximate breakdown of the uses of theword that is as shown in (23).
This sample, whichis somewhat biased towards verbal complementssince it contains many examples that can be para-phrased as said that, nonetheless shows the relativescarcity of noun complements in the wild and un-derscores the importance of hand-crafted examples13for testing purposes.
It it is clear that these nouncomplements were being analyzed incorrectly be-fore; what is unclear is how much of an impactthe misanalysis would have caused.
Perhaps someother domain would demonstrate a significantlyhigher presence of non-deverbal nouns that takecomplements and would be more significantly im-pacted by their misanalysis.
(23)Uses of the word that in RTE 2007verbal complements 68adjuncts 50deverbal complements 14noun complements 3other 8 197 Future workThe detection and incorporation of noun comple-ments for use in the BRIDGE system can be ex-panded in several directions, such as automat-ing the search process, identifying and classifyingother parts of speech that take complements, andexploring transferability to other languages.7.1 Automating the searchTesting whether a clause is an adjunct or a nouncomplement or is licensed by something else is cur-rently done by hand.
Automating the testing wouldallow many more nouns to be tested.
However, thisis non-trivial.
As (8a) and (8b) demonstrated, thesurface structure can appear very similar; it is onlywhen we try to figure out the implications of the ex-amples that the differences emerge.The Penn Treebank (Marcus et al, 1994) wasinitially used to extract complement-taking nouns.As more tree and dependency banks, as well as lex-ical resources (Macleod et al, 1998), are available,further lexical items can be extracted in this way.However, such resources are costly to build andso are only slowly added to the available NLP re-sources.Rather than trying to identify all potential nouncomplement clauses, a simpler approach would beto reduce the search space for the human judge.
Forexample, some adjuncts (perhaps three quarters ofthem) could be eliminated from natural examplesby using a part-of-speech tagger to identify occur-rences where a conjugated verb immediately fol-8This includes demonstrative uses, uses licensed by otherparts of speech such as so, and clauses which are the subjectof a sentence or the object of a prepositional phrase.lows the word that, as in (24).
These commonlyidentify adjuncts.
(24) The shark that bit the swimmer appears tohave left.By eliminating these adjuncts and by removingthose sentences where it is known that the clauseis a complement of the verb based on the syntac-tic classification of that verb (the syntactic lexiconcontains 2500 verbs with various clausal comple-ments), as in (25), the search space could be signif-icantly reduced.
(25) The judge announced that the defendant wasguilty.7.2 Other parts of speech that introducecontextsVerbs, adjectives, and adverbs can also licensecomplements and hence contexts with implicationsignatures.
Examples in (26) show different partsof speech that introduce contexts.9(26) a. Verb: John said that Paul had arrived.b.
Adjective: It is possible that someone atethe last piece of cake.c.
Adjective: John was available to seeMary.d.
Adverb: John falsely reported that Marysaw Bill.Many classes of verbs have already been iden-tified and are incorporated into the system (Nairnet al, 2006): verbs relating to speech (e.g., say,report, etc.
), implicative verbs such as manageand fail (Karttunen, 2007), and factive verbs (e.g.agree, realize, consider) (Vendler, 1967; Kiparskyand Kiparsky, 1971), to name a few.
Many adjec-tives have also been added to the system, includ-ing ones taking to and that complements.10 As withthe complement-taking nouns, a significant part ofthe effort in incorporating the complement-takingadjectives into the system was identifying whichadjectives license complements.
The adverbs havenot been explored in as much depth.9From a syntactic perspective, the adverb falsely does nottake a complement.
However, it does introduce a context inthe semantics and hence requires a lexical entry similar tothose discussed for the complement-taking nouns.10This work was largely done by Hannah Copperman dur-ing her internship at PARC.147.3 Other languagesThe fact that it has been productive to searchfor complement-taking nouns through synonymsand WordNet classes suggests that other languagescould benefit from the work done in English.
Itwould be interesting to see to what extent the im-plicative signatures from one language carry overinto another, and to what extent they differ.
Strongsimilarities could, for example, suggest some com-mon mechanism at work in these nouns that wehave been unable to identify by studying only onelanguage.
Searching in other languages could alsopotentially turn up classes or candidates that weremissed in English.118 ConclusionsIt is important to identify complement-takingnouns in order to properly analyze the grammati-cal and implicative structure of the sentence.
Herewe described a bootstrapping approach wherebyannotated corpora and existing lexical resourceswere used to identify complement-taking nouns.WordNet was used to find semantically similarnouns.
These were then tested in closed examplesand in Web searches in order to determine whetherthey licensed complements and what the implica-tive signature of the complement was.
Althoughidentifying the complete set of these nouns isnon-trivial, the context mechanism for dealingwith implicatives makes adding them to theBRIDGE system to derive the correct implicationsstraightforward.9 Appendix: Complement-taking nounsThis appendix contains sample complement-takingnouns and their classification in the BRIDGE sys-tem.9.1 Noun that take to clausesAbility nouns (impl nn with verb have): ability,choice, energy, flexibility, freedom, heart, means,way, wherewithalAsset nouns (impl nn with verb have): money, op-tion, timeBravery nouns (impl nn with verb have): au-dacity, ball, cajones, cheek, chutzpah, cojones,11Thanks to Martin Forst (p.c.)
for suggesting this direc-tion.courage, decency, foresight, gall, gumption, gut,impudence, nerve, strength, temerityChance nouns (impl nn with verb have): chance,occasion, opportunityEffort nouns (impl nn with verb have): initiative,liberty, troubleOther nouns (no implicativity or not yet classi-fied): accord, action, agreement, aim, ambition,appetite, application, appointment, approval, at-tempt, attitude, audition, authority, authorization,battle, bid, blessing, campaign, capacity, clear-ance, commission, commitment, concession, con-fidence, consent, consideration, conspiracy, con-tract, cost, decision, demand, desire, determina-tion, directive, drive, duty, eagerness, effort, ev-idence, expectation, failure, fear, fight, figure,franchise, help, honor, hunger, hurry, idea, im-pertinence, inability, incentive, inclination, indi-cation, information, intent, intention, invitation,itch, job, journey, justification, keenness, legisla-tion, license, luck, mandate, moment, motion, mo-tive, move, movement, need, note, notice, notifi-cation, notion, obligation, offer, order, pact, pat-tern, permission, plan, pledge, ploy, police, posi-tion, potential, power, pressure, principle, process,program, promise, propensity, proposal, proposi-tion, provision, push, readiness, reason, recom-mendation, refusal, reluctance, reminder, removal,request, requirement, responsibility, right, rush,scheme, scramble, sense, sentiment, shame, sign,signal, stake, stampede, strategy, study, support,task, temptation, tendency, threat, understanding,undertaking, unwillingness, urge, venture, vote,willingness, wish, word, work9.2 Nouns that take that clausesNouns with impl pp nn: abomination, angriness,angst, animosity, anxiousness, apprehensiveness,ardor, awe, bereavement, bitterness, case, choler,consequence, consternation, covetousness, discon-certion, disconcertment, disquiet, disquietude, ec-stasy, edginess, enmity, enviousness, event, fact,fearfulness, felicity, fright, frustration, fury, gall,gloom, gloominess, grudge, happiness, hesitancy,hostility, huffiness, huffishness, inquietude, in-security, ire, jealousy, jitteriness, joy, joyous-ness, jubilance, jumpiness, lovingness, poignance,poignancy, premonition, presentiment, problem,qualm, rancor, rapture, sadness, shyness, situa-15tion, somberness, sorrow, sorrowfulness, suspense,terror, trepidation, truth, uneasiness, unhappiness,wrathNouns with fact p: absurdity, accident, hypocrisy,idiocy, irony, miracleNouns with impl pn np: falsehood, lieOther nouns (no implicativity or not yet classi-fied): avowal, axiom, conjecture, conviction, cri-tique, effort, fear, feeling, hunch, hysteria, idea,impudence, inability, incentive, likelihood, news,notion, opinion, optimism, option, outrage, pact,ploy, point, police, possibility, potential, power,precedent, premise, principle, problem, prospect,proviso, reluctance, responsibility, right, rumor,scramble, sentiment, showing, sign, skepticism,stake, stand, story, strategy, tendency, unwilling-ness, viewpoint, vision, willingness, wordReferencesBobrow, Daniel G., Cleo Condoravdi, Richard Crouch,Ron Kaplan, Lauri Karttunen, Tracy Holloway King,Valeria de Paiva, and Annie Zaenen.
2005.
A ba-sic logic for textual inference.
In Proceedings ofthe AAAI Workshop on Inference for Textual QuestionAnswering.Bobrow, Daniel G., Bob Cheslow, Cleo Condoravdi,Lauri Karttunen, Tracy Holloway King, RowanNairn, Valeria de Paiva, Charlotte Price, and AnnieZaenen.
2007.
PARC?s Bridge and question answer-ing system.
In Grammar Engineering Across Frame-works, pages 46?66.
CSLI Publications.Chatzichrisafis, Nikos, Dick Crouch, Tracy HollowayKing, Rowan Nairn, Manny Rayner, and MarianneSantaholma.
2007.
Regression testing for grammar-based systems.
In Grammar Engineering AcrossFrameworks, pages 28?143.
CSLI Publications.Cohen, K. Bretonnel, William A. Baumgartner Jr., andLawrence Hunter.
2008.
Software testing and thenaturally occurring data assumption in natural lan-guage processing.
In Software Engineering, Testing,and Quality Assurance for Natural Language Pro-cessing, pages 23?30.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Crouch, Dick and Tracy Holloway King.
2005.
Unify-ing lexical resources.
In Proceedings of the Interdis-ciplinary Workshop on the Identification and Repre-sentation of Verb Features and Verb Classes.Crouch, Dick and Tracy Holloway King.
2006.
Seman-tics via f-structure rewriting.
In LFG06 Proceedings.CSLI Publications.Crouch, Dick.
2005.
Packed rewriting for mapping se-mantics to KR.
In Proceedings of the InternationalWorkshop on Computational Semantics.Dagan, Ido, Oren Glickman, and Bernardo Magnini.2005.
The PASCAL recognizing textual entailmentchallenge.
In Proceedings of the PASCAL Chal-lenges Workshop on Recognizing Textual Entailment,Southampton, U.K.Fellbaum, Christiane, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
The MIT Press.Gurevich, Olga, Richard Crouch, Tracy HollowayKing, and Valeria de Paiva.
2006.
Deverbal nounsin knowledge representation.
In Proceedings of the19th International Florida AI Research Society Con-ference (FLAIRS ?06), pages 670?675.Karttunen, Lauri.
2007.
Word play.
ComputationalLinguistics, 33:443?467.Kiparsky, Paul and Carol Kiparsky.
1971.
Fact.
InSteinberg, D. and L. Jakobovits, editors, Semantics.An Inderdisciplinary Reader, pages 345?369.
Cam-bridge University Press.Kipper, Karin, Hoa Trang Dang, and Martha Palmer.2000.
Class-based construction of a verb lexicon.In AAAI-2000 17th National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.Macleod, Catherine, Ralph Grishman, Adam Meyers,Leslie Barrett, and Ruth Reeves.
1998.
NOMLEX:A lexicon of nominalizations.
In EURALEX?98.Marcus, Mitchell, Grace Kim, Mary AnnMarcinkiewicz, Robert MacIntyre, Ann Bies adnMark Ferguson, Karen Katz, and Britta Schasberger.1994.
The Penn treebank: Annotative predicateargument structure.
In ARPA Human LanguageTechnology Workshop.Maxwell, John and Ron Kaplan.
1991.
A method fordisjunctive constraint satisfaction.
Current Issues inParsing Technologies.Nairn, Rowan, Cleo Condoravdi, and Lauri Karttunen.2006.
Computing relative polarity for textual in-ference.
In Inference in Computational Semantics(ICoS-5).Pichotta, Karl.
2008.
Processing paraphrasesand phrasal implicatives in the Bridge question-answering system.
Stanford University, SymbolicSystems undergraduate honors thesis.Vendler, Zeno.
1967.
Linguistics and Philosophy.
Cor-nell University Press.16
