Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (COGALEX 2008), pages 77?85Manchester, August 2008Looking up phrase rephrasings via a pivot languageAure?lien MaxLIMSI-CNRS & Universite?
Paris-Sud 11Orsay, Franceaurelien.max@limsi.frMichael ZockLIF-CNRSMarseilles, Francemichael.zock@lif.univ-mrs.frAbstractRephrasing text spans is a common taskwhen revising a text.
However, traditionaldictionaries often cannot provide direct as-sistance to writers in performing this task.In this article, we describe an approachto obtain a monolingual phrase lexiconusing techniques used in Statistical Ma-chine Translation.
A part to be rephrasedis first translated into a pivot language,and then translated back into the origi-nal language.
Models for assessing flu-ency, meaning preservation and lexical di-vergence are used to rank possible rephras-ings, and their relative weight can be tunedby the user so as to better address herneeds.
An evaluation shows that thesemodels can be used successfully to selectrephrasings that are likely to be useful to awriter.1 IntroductionOnce an initial draft of a text is ready, writers facethe difficult phase of text revision.
Changes maybe made for various reasons: correcting spelling orgrammatical errors, making the text locally morefluent (for example, in case it contains wordingsthat are literal translations from another language),avoiding close repetitions or enforcing terminolog-ical consistency, or better conveying the writer?sideas.
All these changes can affect text spans ofvarious sizes, and can globally be seen as casesof rephrasing.
Paraphrasing involves rephrasingsc?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.that are semantically equivalent, but targets termi-nology and style that are more suited to the con-text of use of a text.
In a broad sense, rephrasingmay involve wordings that convey different mean-ings in an attempt to correct or make the writer?sthoughts more precise.
Research concerned withthe study of changes between writers?
drafts (tex-tual genetic criticism) can help in understandingwriters?
rewriting processes, and can be supportedby automatic tools (e.g.
(Bourdaillet et al, 2007)).In this work, we address the issue of how writ-ers can be assisted in finding wordings that corre-spond to multi-word phrases of any nature.
Givenan original text span, the writer is presented witha list of rephrasings that are organized by takinginto account the context of the rephrasing and user-specified preferences.
Our proposal can thereforebe used as a lexicon operating at the phrasal level,which can be used either when writers are facedwith a tip-of-the-tongue lexical access problem, orwhen they are not completely satisfied with someinitial wording.
In the former case, they may beable to come up with some words or phrases thatwould be different in meaning from what they arelooking for, and in the latter they may be lookingfor a near-synonymous wording that is more ap-propriate to a given context, for example to avoidclose repetitions.
To define such a phrase lexi-con and its possible mode of use, the followingquestions should be considered: (a) how the lex-icon entries are obtained, (b) what can be the entrypoints and how can one navigate in the results, and(c) how the results are displayed.Rephrasing can be more or less complex andproblematic depending on the consequences at thevarious levels:?
In the simplest case, replacing one element77by another does not have any consequencesoverall.
This is often the case when a word isreplaced by its synonym or a similar word.?
An entire expression or sentence is replacedby its equivalent.
In this case the problem isgenerally to obtain a good fit with regard tothe surrounding text, the replacing unit beingwell-formed by definition.?
The replacing element may require syntacticchanges of the matrix, i.e.
the text in which itis embedded.
This occurs if the source wordand the target word have different syntacticrequirements, and this can be seen as a goodreason to replace entire sentences, or at leastsentence fragments.
This assumes a patterndictionary, where patterns achieving the sameconceptual goal are grouped together.In the next section, we discuss limitations of tra-ditional dictionaries with respect to the targetedtask, and describe an approach to obtain phraserephrasings through a pivot translation into anotherlanguage.
In section 3, we discuss the issue of theorganization of the results along various axis: flu-ency of rephrasings, preservation of meaning, andlexical divergence between original text spans andrephrasings.
We then present an initial evaluationof our approach on French rephrasing in section 4.Related work is presented in section 5, and we fi-nally discuss our approach and our future work insection 6.2 Lexicon of phrase rephrasingsDictionaries and semantic resources such as the-sauri can be used to find words by following linksof different kinds from a given entry point.
Word-Net (Fellbaum, 1998) is one such resource.
For aproposal of other kinds of links and navigationalaids see also (Zock and Bilac, 2004; Zock, 2006;Zock, 2007).Words are the traditional units that people ex-pect to find in dictionaries.
Whereas some typesof dictionaries can contain multiword expressions,such as compound nouns and terms, those corre-spond to linguistically-motivated units.
In orderto rephrase phrases of any type with a dictionary, awriter may have to look up several words, combinevarious information and validate the result usingher experience of the language or throught the useof a concordancer.
Moreover, dictionary lookupsare in most cases insensitive to the actual contextof words in an existing text.
It is therefore the re-sponsibility of its users to ensure that a choice isappropriate for a given context, which can be quitedifficult, for example when writing in a second lan-guage.One way of obtaining phrase rephrasings is bylooking at phrases that occur in similar contextsin a monolingual corpus (e.g.
(Munteanu andMarcu, 2006)).
In order to extract a comprehensivephrase lexicon, a very large number of sentencesshould be compared to extract potential rephras-ings, which furthermore may often correspond tophrases that are too remotely connected.
Parallelcorpora provide the interesting advantage that it isreasonable to assume that elements from one sideof the corpus should be aligned to elements on theother side, and that associations of elements can bereinforced by the number of times they occur in thecorpus.
Various approaches for word alignmentfrom parallel corpora have been proposed (see e.g.
(Och and Ney, 2003)), and the phrase-based ap-proach to Statistical Machine Translation (Koehnet al, 2003) has led to the development of heuris-tics for obtaining alignments between phrases ofany number of words.Unfortunately, monolingual parallel corporaaligned at the sentence level, such as various trans-lations of a novel in a foreign language, are re-sources that are extremely scarce.
Using bilingualparallel corpora, a much more common resource,one can obtain various possible phrase translationsfor a given source phrase, as well as some estimateof the distribution of probabilities for the varioustranslations of that phrase.
Such N ?
M aligne-ments can capture lexical translations (e.g.
exi-geons ?
ask for, call for, demand, expect, request,etc.)
and phrasal literal or idiomatic translations(e.g.
un bon de?but ?
a good approach, a goodfirst move, a good starting point, a positive initia-tive, an encouraging start, the right road, etc.
), butcan also capture noise depending on the alignmentheuristics used (e.g.
les e?tats candidats (candi-date countries) ?
Member States, the candidatecountries were to, the accession countries havecalled for, candidate, the, etc.)
Different targetphrases associated with a given source phrase caneither represent paraphrases or phrases with differ-ent meanings.
Among the limitations of this typeof phrasal alignments are their inability to modelnon-consecutive words and to generalize the con-78tents of phrases, and the fact that their translationsare not conditioned on their context.If phrase extraction is performed in two oppo-site directions, then it is possible to find the pos-sible translations of a given phrase (and their con-ditional probabilities), and then to translate backthose phrases into the original language.
In this ap-proach proposed by (Bannard and Callison-Burch,2005), the second language acts as a pivot, as il-lustrated on figure 1.
Because of the nature of thepossible alignments, this pivot can represent vari-ous senses, which in context can be equivalent orcomparable to that of the original phrase.
In turn,the same phenomena can take place when translat-ing back from the pivot phrases to the original lan-guage, and the resulting rephrasings can be equiv-alent or comparable in meaning to that of the orig-inal phrase in some context, may also be incom-plete and/or require other changes in the rephrasedsentence.Bannard and Callison-Burch have defined aparaphrase probability between two phrases p1and p2(with p16= p2) that uses conditional proba-bilities between phrases and sums over all possiblepivot phrases:P (p2|p1) = argmaxp26=p1?pivotP (pivot|p1)P (p2|pivot)(1)(Callison-Burch, 2007) measured the impor-tance of various factors impacting the quality ofthe paraphrases obtained.
Using manually builtalignments yields a significant improvement inparaphrase quality, showing that if better align-ments are available the proposed approach canproduce better paraphrases.
Alignments betweenseveral languages can be used for finding pivotphrases, and using several simulateously tend toimprove alignment quality and therefore para-phrases themselves.
Using a language model tofind paraphrases that maximize its score in theoriginal sentencial context leads to improved flu-ency, but has a negative impact on meaning preser-vation.
Lastly, restricting pivot phrases to thoseactually aligned in a test aligned bilingual corpusimproves paraphrase quality, which illustrates theimportance of disambiguating source phrases rela-tively to the pivot language.The rephrasings obtained can be classified intoseveral categories when used in context:?
A rephrasing can be a paraphrase that is validin all contexts (e.g.
je vous donne raison ?je suis d?accord avec vous), in specific gram-matical contexts (e.g.
pouvoir accueillir dansde bonnes conditions les pays ?
comme il sedoit) and/or pragmatic contexts (e.g.
c?est unbon de?but ?
nous partons du bon pied).?
A rephrasing can contain shifts in meaningwith the original phrase which might be ac-ceptable or not (e.g.
nous voulons apporternotre contribution a` ce de?bat ?
donner dela valeur).
Some such rephrasings reveal anatural bias towards the bilingual corpus used(e.g.
le prochain e?largissement constitue laprincipale ta?che ?
l?
objectif principal).?
A rephrasing can be ill-formed but still con-tain elements of interest to a writer (e.g.
ceuxqui disent que .
.
.
se trompent ?
devrionsa` nouveau re?fle?chir; here a rephrasing suchas devraient a` nouveau re?fle?chir could bedeemed acceptable in some contexts).?
A rephrasing may introduce a contradictionin a specific context (e.g.
ce n?est pas le mo-ment de se montrer he?sitant ?
il est trop to?tpour)?
A rephrasing may be inexploitable because itis syntactically ill-formed in context and doesnot contain any element of interest, or is tooclose to the original phrase.The most natural entry point to such a resourceis by entering a phrase or selecting it in a text underrevision.
Approximate search can also be of use,as done in some concordancer software, for exam-ple by allowing the user to enter word-based reg-ular expressions mixing literal words, word lem-mas, word part-of-speech or even word classes(e.g.
types of named entities).
Boolean querieson indexes of word lemmas can also be used to of-fer yet more flexibility to search the lexicon, but atthe cost of more candidate results.
Once results arereturned, they can recursively be reused as sourcephrases, so as to offer a means to navigate by iter-ative refining.3 Evaluation of rephrasings in contextfor ranking resultsEach candidate phrase rephrasing for a givenphrase must be evaluated in order to define a rank-ing order for presentation to the user, and possibly79Figure 1: Example of rephrasing for the French phrase ce n?est pas le moment de using English as pivot.to discard some of them.
The proposed rankingshould reflect as best as possible the preferences ofthe user for the task at hand in order to minimizereading time and maintain the user?s interest in us-ing the phrase lexicon.
It is essential to give theuser some control over how the results are returneddepending on what is more important to her.
Forexample, (Ferret and Zock, 2006) have proposedto present results from a dictionary enriched withtopical associations in chunks to allow for catego-rial search.
There will be cases where the user mayfind acceptable only grammatical results, while inother cases the user might accept agrammatical re-sults provided they contain interesting suggestions.Moreover, it seems extremely important that resultranking can take into account the phrase substitu-tion into the original context.Considering how the proposed phrase lexicon isbuilt, the pivot paraphrasing probability of equa-tion 1 (PIV) can be used as a baseline ordering.Such a model reflects some strength of associationbetween a rephrased phrase and the original phraseusing the extracted phrases and conditional prob-abilities derived from a bilingual training corpus.It is therefore expected that results will be biasedtowards that corpus if the latter belongs to a partic-ular genre or theme.
Nonetheless, one can expectthat some associations will be general enough tobe of general interest.In addition, several models that users can in-terpret as ranking criterion can be used simulate-neously using the log-linear framework tradition-ally used in SMT systems.
However, contrary towhat is done in SMT, the weight of the modelscannot be automatically optimized if we do not usean automatic evaluation of rephrasing quality, thedefinition of which depending heavily on the sub-jective appreciation of a user.
Equation 2 showshow the score of a rephrasing p2of p1can be com-puted, where M is the set of models used, hmisthe logarithm of the normalized score of a modeland ?mits weight (with?m?M?m= 1), and Cis the original sentence and the placeholder for therephrased phrase.s(p2, p1, C) =?m?M?mhm(p1, p2, C) (2)3.1 Control over fluencyAs noted by (Mutton et al, 2007), the notion ofsentence-level fluency is not uniformely agreedupon, and its evaluation by human judges is some-times found subjective, but in practice judges canobtain high levels of agreement about what canbe considered fluent or not.
Like (Callison-Burch,2007), we can use a language model (LM) to as-sess the local fluency of a sentence after a phrasehas been substituted with a rephrasing.
A degra-dation in score (with a fluent original sentence)can indicate that the rephrasing segment should beadapted to the sentence, and/or that the sentenceitself should be modified in order to integrate thenew phrase as is.Syntax parsers can produce various informationthat can be relevant for assessing the fluency ofsentences, which can be used as features from dif-ferent parsers for classification that can correlatewell with human judgment (Mutton et al, 2007).When substituting a part of a sentence with an-other phrase and if this substitution does not re-quire other changes in the sentence, then at leastthe dependency relationships between words out-side that phrase should be preserved.
This seemscoherent with our objective of focussing on thetask of phrase rephrasing when it is possible tomodify only a given phrase and obtain an accept-able result.803.2 Control over meaning preservationThe preservation of dependency relationships out-side of the rephrased phrase can also play a rolein terms of meaning preservation.
Dependencyrelationships connecting words in the phrase andwords outside the phrase (i.e., whose governor isoutside the phrase and dependant inside it, or theopposite) should still exist after such a substitution,but possibly with a modified dependency target inthe phrase.
Indeed, those relationships denote thegrammatical role of the words of the phrase rela-tive to their context, and if those are preserved thenit is more likely that meaning is preserved.We use a model based on dependency preser-vation (DEP) which involves relationships outsidethe rephrased phrase and relationships crossinga boundary of that phrase.
The score is basedon some proportion of the number of such de-pendencies found after substitution over the num-ber of original dependencies (see (Max, 2008) fordetails).
Another way of controlling for mean-ing preservation is to ensure that only the pivotphrases with the same meaning as the originalphrase are kept (and then their back translations).
(Callison-Burch, 2007) has shown the positive im-pact on paraphrase quality of using a controlledpivot present in an aligned sentence in a test bilin-gual corpora.
Phrase disambiguation techniqueshave been proposed for SMT and could be appliedto the problem at hand (e.g.
(Stroppa et al, 2007)).In an interactive context, it makes sense to let theuser the opportunity to control for phrase sense byrejecting bad pivot phrases if she wants to, whichis then similar to Callison-Burch?s experiment set-tings.
This manual selection must of course be op-tional, but can be used when a user prefers a strictercontrol on meaning.
Another possibly interestinguse is to disambiguate in a pivot language corre-sponding to one?s native language when writing ina foreign language.3.3 Control over lexical divergenceThere will be cases when possible rephrasings willbe very close to their original phrase, differingfor example by only punctuation marks or verbalforms1.
Writers may sometimes prefer rephras-ings that differ by just one word, or on the con-trary rephrasings that use a set of completely dif-ferent words.
To account for differents words be-1This is particularly the case when aligning between lowand highly inflected languages.Figure 2: Bilingual phrase lexicon statisticstween an original phrase and its rephrasing, we usea model (LEM) that returns a proportion of lem-mas for full words that only belong to a rephrasingover all such lemmas for an initial phrase and itsrephrasing (see (Max, 2008)).4 Experiments and evaluationWe carried out an evaluation on the local rephras-ing of French sentences, using English as thepivot language.2 We extracted phrase align-ments of up to 7 word forms using the Giza++alignment tool (Och and Ney, 2003) and thegrow-diag-final-and heuristics describedin (Koehn et al, 2003) on 948,507 sentencesof the French-English part of the Europarl cor-pus (Koehn, 2005) and obtained some 42 millionphrase pairs for which probabilities were estimatedusing maximum likelihood estimation.
Statisticsfor the extracted lexicons are reported on figure 2.Entries of the monolingual phrase lexicon are builtdynamically from the entries of the monolinguallexicons.For the LM model, we used a 5-gram languagemodel trained on the French part of the corpus us-ing Kneser-Ney smoothing.
The robust parser forFrench SYNTEX (Bourigault et al, 2005) was usedto obtain lemmas for word and labeled dependencyrelationships between words, used respectively forthe LEM and DEP models.
Robust parsers providethe advantage that they can provide partial analysisfor correct chunks in agrammatical sentences, butthey can also recover information from agrammat-ical chunks which can be undesirable in this case.3A test corpus of 82 sentences that were not usedfor extracting phrase alignments and learning the2The main motivation for this choice was that we couldeasily have access to French native speakers for manual eval-uation.
We plan however to start new experiments using En-glish, as well as experiments using another highly inflectedlanguage as pivot such as Spanish.3We intend to use several parsers for English implement-ing different approaches as in (Mutton et al, 2007), but wehad access to only one parser for French.81language model was built.
A human judge selectedone phrase of length 3 words or more per sen-tence that would be a good candidate for rephras-ing, and which was accepted if it belonged to theFrench-English lexicon4.
We kept at most the 20first rephrasings obtained using the baseline PIVmodel, and asked two French native speakers toevaluate on a 5-level scale each the 1648 refor-mulated sentences obtained on fluency, meaningpreservation, and authoring value, where the lat-ter was described in the following way: (5) therephrasing can be directly reused for revising atext, (4) the rephrasing can be used with a mi-nor change, (3) the rephrasing contains elementsthat could be used for a good rephrasing, (2) therephrasing contains elements that could suggest arephrasing, and (1) the rephrasing is useless.After the judges had completed manual annota-tion, smoothing of the scores was done by keep-ing mean scores for each sentence.
We measureda value of 0.59 standard deviation for score differ-ences between judges for grammaticality, 0.7 formeaning preservation and 0.8 for authoring value.Those values can indicate a growing difficulty injudging those characteristics, and in particular thatjudging authoring value on the proposed scale ismore dependant on personal judgment.
Results ofmean scores for the first rank solutions with vari-ous model combinations with uniform weights arereported on figure 3, and results for mean author-ing value scores depending on the number of topresults presented to the user are reported on fig-ure 4.Authoring value scores are lower, which can beexplained by the fact that rephrasings with badfluency and/or meaning preservation scores willpenalize authoring value scores according to ourscale.
The best results are obtained when combin-ing all models, which remains true when consider-ing mean results up to at least 8 rephrasings.The baseline PIV model seems to have the mostimpact, but all other models also contribute indifferent ways.
This suggests that which modelshould be used (or its weight in our framework)could be chosen by a user.
In the following ex-ample, the LEM model helped select a rephrasingwhich obtained good scores:Original sentence: ce que je vous propose donc,4This is a limitation of our evaluation, as our annotatorwas not strictly speaking revising a text that she wrote.
Wehope to be able to conduct task-based experiments in the fu-ture.fluency meaning authoringPIV (baseline) 4.46 4.18 3.62LM 4.28 3.62 3.45DEP 4.35 3.68 3.43LEM 4.05 3.21 3.28PIV+LM 4.65 4.06 3.82PIV+DEP 4.58 4.27 3.66PIV+LEM 4.37 4.00 3.76LM+DEP 4.49 3.81 3.68LM+LEM 4.28 3.59 3.56PIV+LM+DEP 4.65 4.05 3.92PIV+LM+LEM 4.61 4.02 3.97PIV+DEP+LEM 4.57 4.17 4.02LM+DEP+LEM 4.37 3.69 3.64PIV+LM+DEP+LEM 4.68 4.09 4.05Figure 3: Mean results at first rank for variousmodel combinations (uniform weighting)Figure 4: Mean authoring value scores dependingon the number of results presented to the userc?est de travailler dans cette direction ... (what Itherefore propose is to work towards this .
.
.
)Rephrased sentence: ce que je vous pro-pose donc, c?est de coope?rer dans ce sens ...(work towards this goal .
.
.
)Figures 5 and 6 show two examples of rephras-ings in French, whereby for each rephrasing theranks given by PIV, LM and the combination ofall mentioned models are shown.5 Related workWhile the traditional view of lexicons is word-based, we may as well consider larger units, in-cluding sentences.
Corpus Pattern Analysis (CPA)(Hanks and Pustejovsky, 2005) is concerned withthe prototypical syntagmatic patterns with whichwords in use are associated.
For example, themeaning of take place is different from the mean-82Rephrasings Ranks given by model(s)PIV LM PIV+LM+DEP+LEMquelques points essentiels 1 3 1les points essentiels 19 1 2plusieurs questions importantes 17 4 3des points essentiels 8 6 4deux ou trois questions importantes 5 9 5plusieurs points importants 11 2 5un certain nombre de questions importantes 17 7 7certains points importants 2 5 8un certain nombre de points importants 3 8 9certains e?le?ments tre`s importants 13 11 10une se?rie de points importants 4 12 11quelques accents importants 5 15 11des choses extre?mement importantes 13 14 11quelques remarques importantes , 8 16 14des points importants 12 10 15quelques choses tre`s importantes 13 17 16certains points importants , 8 13 17quelques points essentiels sur 20 18 17de certains e?le?ments tre`s importants 13 19 19placer quelques accents importants 5 20 20Figure 5: Examples of rephrasings for the phrase quelques points importants in je voudrais mentionnerquelques points importants de la directiveRephrasings Ranks given by model(s)PIV LM PIV+LM+DEP+LEMvous avez raison 1 1 1je suis d?
accord avec vous 2 2 2je suis d?
accord 3 6 3je conviens avec vous 6 5 4je partage votre avis 7 4 5vous avez raison de dire 10 3 5je pense comme vous 7 8 7je suis parfaitement d?
accord avec vous 12 7 8je partage votre point de vue 12 9 9je vous rejoins 7 10 10, je vous donne raison 3 12 11la` , je vous donne raison 3 13 12tu as raison 16 11 12vous avez raison de 10 14 14je partage votre point 12 15 15je partage votre point de 12 16 16Figure 6: Examples of rephrasings for the phrase je vous donne raison in a` cet e?gard bien pre?cis , je vousdonne raison , monsieur le commissaire83ing of take his place, due to the possessive deter-miner.
The actual meaning of words depends onthe context in which they are used.
The work doneby the team of Gross on lexicon-grammar (e.g.
(Gross, 1984)) showed that a relatively small set ofclause patterns and syntactic constraints suffices tocover most of common French.Comparable monolingual corpora have beenused for automatic paraphrasing.
Barzilay andLee (Barzilay and Lee, 2003) learned paraphras-ing patterns as pairs of word lattices, which arethen used to produce sentence level paraphrases.Their corpus contained news agency articles on thesame events, which allows precise sentence para-phrasing, but on a small sets of phenomena andfor a limited domain.
As sentential paraphras-ing is more likely to alter meaning, Quirk et al(Quirk et al, 2004) approached paraphrasing asa monotonous decoding by a phrase-based SMTsystem.
Their corpus consisted of monolingualsentences extracted from a comparable corpus thatwere automatically aligned so as to allow alignedphrase extraction.
Pang et al (Pang et al, 2003)used parallel monolingual corpora built from newsstories that had been independantly translated sev-eral times to learn lattices from a syntax-basedalignment process.Bannard and Callison-Burch (Bannard andCallison-Burch, 2005) proposed to use pivot trans-lation for paraphrasing phrases.
Fujita (Fujita,2005) proposed a transfer-and-revision frameworkusing linguistic knowledge for generating para-phrases in Japanese and a model for error detec-tion.
At the lexical level, a recent evaluation on En-glish lexical substitution was held (McCarthy andNavigli, 2007) in which systems had to find lexicalsynonyms and disambiguate the context.6 Discussion and future workIn this article, we have presented an approach forobtaining rephrasings for short text spans from par-allel bilingual corpora.
These rephrasings can beranked according to user-defined preferences, andthe weights of the models used can be dynamicallyadjusted by a user depending on what features aremore important to her, for instance after an initiallist of candidates has been proposed by the sys-tem.
Indeed, good candidates include paraphrases,but also more generally phrases that could help awriter revise a text with some shifts in meaning,even if at the cost of some corrections to make theresulting text grammatical.
Furthermore, searchfor rephrasings can be iteratively performed usingcandidate rephrasings as source phrases, and theuser can have some fine-grained control if select-ing or rejecting possible pivot phrases manually.Possible user interfaces to this proposed bilingualphrase lexicon could include rephrasing memoryfeatures to learn from interaction with the user, andconcordancing features to display the context ofuse in the bilingual corpus of the segments used tobuild the relevant lexicon entries.
In the latter case,the similarity used to select examples could takethe context of the phrases into account in terms ofdependency relationships.There are several open issues to the presentedwork.
Important issues are where the phrasescan come from and the bias introduced by the re-source used.
Using a bilingual corpora such asthe Europarl corpus with this pivot approach yieldsboth generic and domain/genre-specific rephras-ings, and it is important to be able to determinetheir appropriate context of use.
It would alsobe interesting to investigate enriching this frame-work with phrases learnt from monolingual cor-pora from a given domain or genre, and to use fea-tures from the current text under revision.
Moregenerally, we would need to get some idea of thedegree of possible reuse of a given rephrasing.Another important group of issues concerns lim-itations due to the nature of phrases for the taskat hand.
As we have said, phrases as units ofrephrasing are limited because they cannot modelnon-consecutive words and because of the rigidityof their content.
Various types of entry points tothe rephrasing lexicon such as using word-basedregular expressions can in some way alleviate thisproblem, but work could be done on the lexiconitself.
As shown by Callison-Burch (Callison-Burch, 2007), much can be gained by using bet-ter alignments.
Alignments techniques using syn-tactic information could eliminate weak rephras-ing candidates (i.e.
increase in overall precision),but interesting phrasal alignments could be lost aswell (decrease in overall recall).
Furthermore, in-formation from the context of alignments couldalso be used to disambiguate the source phrase andget only pivot phrases that are compatible with thecontext of a given rephrasing, in similar ways asrecently done for SMT (Stroppa et al, 2007).84ReferencesBannard, Colin and Chris Callison-Burch.
2005.
Para-phrasing with bilingual parallel corpora.
In Proceed-ings of ACL, Ann Arbor, USA.Barzilay, Regina and Lillian Lee.
2003.
Learn-ing to paraphrase: an unsupervised approach us-ing multiple-sequence alignment.
In Proceedings ofNAACL/HLT, Edmonton, Canada.Bourdaillet, Julien, Jean-Gabriel Ganascia, and Ire`neFenoglio.
2007.
Machine assisted study of writ-ers?
rewriting processes.
In Proceedings of NLPCS,poster session, Madeire, Portugal.Bourigault, Didier, Ce?cile Fabre, Ce?cile Frrot, Marie-Paule Jacques, and Sylvia Ozdowska.
2005.
Syntex,analyseur syntaxique de corpus.
In Proceedings ofTALN, Dourdan, France.Callison-Burch, Chris.
2007.
Paraphrasing and Trans-lation.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Edinburgh.Fellbaum, Christiane, editor, 1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database and some of its Applica-tions.
MIT Press.Ferret, Olivier and Michael Zock.
2006.
Enhancingelectronic dictionaries with an index based on asso-ciations.
In Proceedings of COLING/ACL, Sydney,Australia.Fujita, Atsushi.
2005.
Automatic Generation of Syn-tactically Well-formed and Semantically AppropriateParaphrases.
Ph.D. thesis, Nara Institute of Scienceand Technology.Gross, Maurice.
1984.
Lexicon-grammar and the anal-ysis of french.
In Proc.
of the 11th COLING, pages275?282, Stanford, CA.Hanks, Patrick and James Pustejovsky.
2005.
A patterndictionary for natural language processing.
RevueFranc?aise de linguistique applique?e, 10(2):63?82.Koehn, Philipp, Franz Josef Och, , and Daniel Marcu.2003.
Statistical phrase-based translation.
In Pro-ceedings of NAACL/HLT, Edmonton, Canada.Koehn, Philipp.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus forstatistical machine translation.
In Proceedings of MTSummit, Phuket, Thailand.Max, Aure?lien.
2008.
Local rephrasing suggestions forsupporting the work of writers.
In Proceedings ofGoTAL, Gothenburg, Sweden.McCarthy, Diana and Roberto Navigli.
2007.
Semeval-2007 task 10: English lexical substitution task.
InProceedings of the Semeval-2007 Workshop at ACL,Prague, Czech Republic.Munteanu, Dragos S. and Daniel Marcu.
2006.
Ex-tracting parallel sub-sentential fragments from non-parallel corpora.
In Proceedings of COLING/ACL2006, Sydney, Australia.Mutton, Andrew, Mark Dras, Stephen Wan, and RobertDale.
2007.
GLEU : Automatic evaluation ofsentence-level fluency.
In Proceedings of ACL,Prague, Czech Republic.Och, Franz Josef and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A system-atic comparison of various statistical alignment mod-els.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Pang, Bo, Kevin Knight, and Daniel Marcu.
2003.Syntax-based alignment of multiple translations: Ex-tracting paraphrases and generating new sentences.In Proceedings of NAACL/HLT, Edmonton, Canada.Quirk, Chris, Chris Brockett, and William B. Dolan.2004.
Monolingual machine translation for para-phrase generation.
In Proceedings of EMNLP,Barcelona, Spain.Stroppa, Nicolas, Antal van den Bosch, and Andy Way.2007.
Exploiting source similarity for smt usingcontext-informed features.
In Proceedings of TMI,Skvde, Sweden.Zock, Michael and Slaven Bilac.
2004.
Word lookupon the basis of associations : from an idea to aroadmap.
In Workshop on ?Enhancing and usingelectronic dictionaries?, pages 29?35, Geneva.
COL-ING.Zock, Michael.
2006.
Navigational aids, a criticalfactor for the success of electronic dictionaries.
InRapp, Reinhard, P. Sedlmeier, and G. Zunker-Rapp,editors, Perspectives on Cognition: A Festschrift forManfred Wettler, pages 397?414.
Pabst Science Pub-lishers, Lengerich.Zock, Michael.
2007.
If you care to find what youare looking for, make an index: the case of lexicalaccess.
ECTI, Transaction on Computer and Infor-mation Technology, 2(2):71?80.85
