BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 38?45,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe BioScope corpus: annotation for negation, uncertainty and theirscope in biomedical textsGy?rgy Szarvas1, Veronika Vincze1, Rich?rd Farkas2 and J?nos Csirik21Department of Informatics 2Research Group on Artificial IntelligenceUniversity of Szeged Hungarian Academy of ScienceH-6720, Szeged, ?rp?d t?r 2.
H-6720, Szeged, Aradi v?rtan?k tere 1.
{szarvas, vinczev, rfarkas, csirik}@inf.u-szeged.huAbstractThis article reports on a corpus annotationproject that has produced a freely available re-source for research on handling negation anduncertainty in biomedical texts (we call thiscorpus the BioScope corpus).
The corpus con-sists of three parts, namely medical free texts,biological full papers and biological scientificabstracts.
The dataset contains annotations atthe token level for negative and speculativekeywords and at the sentence level for theirlinguistic scope.
The annotation process wascarried out by two independent linguist anno-tators and a chief annotator ?
also responsiblefor setting up the annotation guidelines ?
whoresolved cases where the annotators disagreed.We will report our statistics on corpus size,ambiguity levels and the consistency of anno-tations.1 IntroductionDetecting uncertain and negative assertions is es-sential in most Text Mining tasks where in general,the aim is to derive factual knowledge from textualdata.
This is especially so for many tasks in thebiomedical (medical and biological) domain,where these language forms are used extensively intextual documents and are intended to express im-pressions, hypothesised explanations of experi-mental results or negative findings.
Take, forexample, the clinical coding of medical reports,where the coding of a negative or uncertain diseasediagnosis may result in an over-coding financialpenalty.
Another example from the biological do-main is interaction extraction, where the aim is tomine text evidence for biological entities with cer-tain relations between them.
Here, while an uncer-tain relation or the non-existence of a relationmight be of some interest for an end-user as well,such information must not be confused with realtextual evidence (reliable information).
A generalconclusion is that for text mining, extracted infor-mation that is within the scope of some negative /speculative (hedge or soft negation) keywordshould either be discarded or presented separatelyfrom factual information.Even though many successful text processingsystems (Friedman et al, 1994, Chapman et al2001, Elkin et al 2005) handle the above-mentioned phenomena, most of them exploit hand-crafted rule-based negation/uncertainty detectionmodules.
To the best of our knowledge, there areno publicly available standard corpora of reason-able size that are usable for evaluating the auto-matic detection and scope resolution of theselanguage phenomena.
The availability of such aresource would undoubtedly facilitate the devel-opment of corpus-based statistical systems for ne-gation/hedge detection and resolution.Our study seeks to fill this gap by presenting theBioScope corpus, which consists of medical andbiological texts annotated for negation, speculationand their linguistic scope.
This was done to permita comparison between and to facilitate the devel-opment of systems for negation/hedge detectionand scope resolution.
The corpus described in thispaper has been made publicly available for re-search purposes and it is freely downloadable1.1 www.inf.u-szeged.hu/rgai/bioscope381.1 Related workChapman et al (2001) created a simple regularexpression algorithm called NegEx that can detectphrases indicating negation and identify medicalterms falling within the negative scope.
With thisprocess, a large part of negatives can be identifiedin discharge summaries.Mutalik et al (2001) earlier developedNegfinder in order to recognise negated patterns inmedical texts.
Their lexer uses regular expressionsto identify words indicating negation and then itpasses them as special tokens to the parser, whichmakes use of the single-token look-ahead strategy.Thus, without appealing to the syntactic structureof the sentence, Negfinder can reliably identifynegated concepts in medical narrative when theyare located near the negation markers.Huang and Lowe (2007) implemented a hybridapproach to automated negation detection.
Theycombined regular expression matching withgrammatical parsing: negations are classified onthe basis of syntactic categories and they arelocated in parse trees.
Their hybrid approach isable to identify negated concepts in radiologyreports even when they are located at somedistance from the negative term.The Medical Language Extraction and Encoding(MedLEE) system was developed as a generalnatural language processor in order to encodeclinical documents in a structured form (Friedmanet al, 1994).
Negated concepts and certaintymodifiers are also encoded within the system, thusit enables them to make a distinction betweennegated/uncertain concepts and factual informationwhich is crucial in information retrieval.Elkin et al (2005) use a list of negation wordsand a list of negation scope-ending words in orderto identify negated statements and their scope.Although a fair amount of literature onuncertainty (or hedging) in scientific texts has beenproduced since the 1990s (e.g.
Hyland, 1994),speculative language from a Natural LanguageProcessing perspective has only been studied in thepast few years.
Previous studies (Light et al, 2004)showed that the detection of hedging can be solvedeffectively by looking for specific keywords whichimply speculative content.Another possibility is to treat the problem as aclassification task and train a statistical  model todiscriminate speculative and non-speculativeassertions.
This approach requires the availabilityof labeled instances to train the models on.Medlock and Briscoe (2007) proposed a weaklysupervised setting for hedge classification inscientific texts where the aim is to minimise humansupervision needed to obtain an adequate amountof training data.
Their system focuses on locatinghedge cues in text and thus they do not determinethe scopes (in other words in a text they define thescope to be a whole sentence).1.2 Related resourcesEven though the problems of negation (mainly inthe medical domain) and hedging (mainly in thescientific domain) have received much interest inthe past few years, open access annotated resourcesfor training, testing and comparison are rare andrelatively small in size.
Our corpus is the first onewith an annotation of negative/speculativekeywords and their scope.
The authors are onlyaware of the following related corpora:?
The Hedge classification corpus (Medlockand Briscoe, 2007), which has beenannotated for hedge cues (at the sentencelevel) and consists of five full biologicalresearch papers (1537 sentences).
No scopeannotation is given in the original corpus.We included this publicly available corpusin ours, enriching the data with annotationfor negation cues and linguistic scope forboth hedging and negation.?
The Genia Event corpus (Kim et al, 2008),which annotates biological events withnegation and three levels of uncertainty(1000 abstracts).?
The BioInfer corpus (Pyysalo et al, 2007),where biological relations are annotated fornegation (1100 sentences in size).In the two latter corpora biological terms(relations and events) have been annotated for bothnegation and hedging, but linguistic cues (i.e.which keyword modifies the semantics of thestatement) have not been annotated.
We annotatedkeywords and their linguistic scope, which is veryuseful for machine learning or rule-based negationand hedge detection systems.392 Annotation guidelinesThis section describes the basic principles on theannotation of speculative and negative scopes inbiomedical texts.
Some basic definitions and tech-nical details are given in Section 2.1, then the gen-eral guidelines are discussed in Section 2.2 and themost typical keywords and their scopes are illus-trated with examples in Section 2.3.
Some specialcases and exceptions are listed in Section 2.4, thenthe annotation process of the corpus is describedand discussed in Section 2.5.
The complete annota-tion guidelines document is available from the cor-pus homepage.2.1 Basic issuesIn a text, just sentences with some instance ofspeculative or negative language are considered forannotation.
The annotation is based on linguisticprinciples, i.e.
parts of sentences which do not con-tain any biomedical term are also annotated if theyassert the non-existence/uncertainty of something.As for speculative annotation, if a sentence is astatement, that is, it does not include any specula-tive element that suggests uncertainty, it is disre-garded.
Questions inherently suggest uncertainty ?which is why they are asked ?, but they will beneglected and not annotated unless they containspeculative language.Sentences containing any kind of negation areexamined for negative annotation.
Negation is un-derstood as the implication of the non-existence ofsomething.
However, the presence of a word withnegative content does not imply that the sentenceshould be annotated as negative, since there aresentences that include grammatically negativewords but have a speculative meaning or are actu-ally regular assertions (see the examples below).In the corpus, instances of speculative and nega-tive language ?
that is, keywords and their scope ?are annotated.
Speculative elements are marked byangled brackets: <or>, <suggests> etc., whilenegative keywords are marked by square brackets:[no], [without] etc.
The scope of both negative andspeculative keywords is denoted by parentheses.Also, the speculative or negative cue is always in-cluded within its scope:This result (<suggests> that the valency of Bi inthe material is smaller than + 3).Stable appearance the right kidney ([without] hy-dronephrosis).In the following, the general guidelines for specu-lative and negative annotation are presented.2.2 General guidelinesDuring the annotation process, we followed a min-max strategy for the marking of keywords and theirscope.
When marking the keywords, a minimaliststrategy was followed: the minimal unit that ex-pressed hedging or negation was marked as a key-word.
However, there are some cases when hedgeor negation can be expressed via a phrase ratherthan a single word.
Complex keywords are phrasesthat express uncertainty or negation together, butthey cannot do this on their own (the meaning orthe semantics of its subcomponents are signifi-cantly different from the semantics of the wholephrase).
An instance of a complex keyword can beseen in the following sentence:Mild bladder wall thickening (<raises the questionof> cystitis).On the other hand, a sequence of words cannot bemarked as a complex keyword if it is only one ofthose words that express speculative or negativecontent (even without the other word).
Thus prepo-sitions, determiners, adverbs and so on are not an-notated as parts of the complex keyword if thekeyword can have a speculative or negative con-tent on its own:The picture most (<likely> reflects airways dis-ease).Complex keywords are not to be confused with thesequence of two or more keywords because theycan express hedge or negation on their own, that is,without the other keyword as well.
In this case,each keyword is annotated separately, as is shownin the following example:Slightly increased perihilar lung markings (<may>(<indicate> early reactive airways disease)).2.3 Scope markingWhen marking the scopes of negative and specula-tive keywords, we extended the scope to the big-gest syntactic unit possible (in contrast to othercorpora like the one described in (Mutalik et al,2001)).
Thus, annotated scopes always have the40maximal length ?
as opposed to the strategy forannotating keywords, where we marked the mini-mal unit possible.
Our decision was supported bytwo facts.
First, since scopes must contain theirkeywords, it seemed better to include every ele-ment in between the keyword and the target wordin order to avoid ?empty?
scopes, that is, scopeswithout a keyword.
In the next example, howeveris not affected by the hedge cue but it should beincluded within the scope, otherwise the keywordand its target phrase would be separated:(Atelectasis in the right mid zone is, however,<possible>).Second, the status of modifiers is occasionallyvague: it is sometimes not clear whether the modi-fier of the target word belongs to its scope as well.The following sentence can describe two differentsituations:There is [no] primary impairment of glucocorti-coid metabolism in the asthmatics.First, the glucocorticoid metabolism is impaired inthe asthmatics but not primarily, that is, the scopeof no extends to primary.
Second, the scope of noextends to impairment (and its modifiers and com-plements as well), thus there is no impairment ofthe glucocorticoid metabolism at all.
Another ex-ample is shown here:Mild viral <or> reactive airways disease is de-tected.The syntactic structure of the above sentence isambiguous.
First, the airways disease is surelymild, but it is not known whether it is viral or reac-tive; or second, the airways disease is either mildand viral or reactive and not mild.
Most of the sen-tences with similar problems cannot be disambigu-ated on the basis of contextual information, hencethe proper treatment of such sentences remainsproblematic.
However, we chose to mark the wid-est scope available: in other words, we preferred toinclude every possible element within the scoperather than exclude elements that should probablybe included.The scope of a keyword can be determined onthe basis of syntax.
The scope of verbs, auxiliaries,adjectives and adverbs usually extends to the rightof the keyword.
In the case of verbal elements, i.e.verbs and auxiliaries, it ends at the end of theclause (if the verbal element is within a relativeclause or a coordinated clause) or the sentence,hence all complements and adjuncts are included,in accordance with the principle of maximal scopesize.
Take the following examples:The presence of urothelial thickening and milddilatation of the left ureter (<suggest> that thepatient may have continued vesicoureteral reflux).These findings that (<may> be from an acutepneumonia) include minimal bronchiectasis aswell.These findings (<might> be chronic) and (<may>represent reactive airways disease).The scope of attributive adjectives generally ex-tends to the following noun phrase, whereas thescope of predicative adjectives includes the wholesentence.
For example, in the following two state-ments:This is a 3 month old patient who had (<possible>pyelonephritis) with elevated fever.
(The demonstration of hormone receptor proteinsin cells from malignant effusions is <possible>).Sentential adverbs have a scope over the entiresentence, while the scope of other adverbs usuallyends at the end of the clause or sentence.
For in-stance,(The chimaeric oncoprotein <probably> affectscell survival rather than cell growth).Right upper lobe volume loss and (<probably>pneumonia).The scope of conjunctions extends to all membersof the coordination.
That is, it usually extends tothe both left and right:Symptoms may include (fever, cough <or> itches).Complex keywords such as either ?
or have onescope:Mild perihilar bronchial wall thickening may rep-resent (<either> viral infection <or> reactiveairways disease).Prepositions have a scope over the following(noun) phrase:Mildly hyperinflated lungs ([without] focal opac-ity).41When the subject of the sentence contains thenegative determiners no or neither, its scope ex-tends to the entire sentence:Surprisingly, however, ([neither] of these proteinsbound in vitro to EBS1 or EBS2).The main exception that changes the original scopeof the keyword is the passive voice.
The subject ofthe passive sentence was originally the object ofthe verb, that is, it should be within its scope.
Thisis why the subject must also be marked within thescope of the verb or auxiliary.
For instance,(A small amount of adenopathy <cannot be> com-pletely <excluded>).Another example of scope change is the case ofraising verbs (seem, appear, be expected, be likelyetc.).
These can have two different syntactic pat-terns, as the following examples suggest:It seems that the treatment is successful.The treatment seems to be successful.In the first case, the scope of seems starts rightwith the verb.
If this was the case in the secondpattern, the treatment would not be included in thescope, but it should be like that shown in the firstpattern.
Hence in the second sentence, the scopemust be extended to the subject as well:It (<seems> that the treatment is successful).
(The treatment <seems> to be successful).Sometimes a negative keyword is present in thetext apparently without a scope: negative obviouslyexpresses negation, but the negated fact ?
whatmedical problem the radiograph is negative for ?
isnot part of the sentence.
In such cases, the keywordis marked and the scope contains just the keyword:([Negative]) chest radiograph.In the case of elliptic sentences, the same strategyis followed: the keyword is marked and its scopeincludes only the keyword since the verbal phrase,that is, the scope of not, is not repeated in the sen-tence.This decrease was seen in patients who respondedto the therapy as well as in those who did ([not]).Generally, punctuation marks or conjunctionsfunction as scope boundary markers in the corpus,in contrast to the corpus described in (Mutalik etal., 2001) where certain lexical items are treated asnegation-termination tokens.
Since in our corpusthe scope of negation or speculation is mostly ex-tended to the entire clause in the case of verbalelements, it is clear that markers of a sentence orclause boundary determine the end of their scope.2.4 Special casesIt seems unequivocal that whenever there is aspeculative or negative cue in the sentence, thesentence expresses hedge or negation.
However,we have come across several cases where the pres-ence of a speculative/negative keyword does notimply a hedge/negation.
That is, some of the cuesdo not denote speculation or negation in all theiroccurrences, in other words, they are ambiguous.For instance, the following sentence is a state-ment and it is the degree of probability that is pre-cisely determined, but it is not an instance ofhedging although it contains the cue probable:The planar amide groups in which is still diggingnylon splay around 30 less probable event.As for negative cues, sentences including a nega-tive keyword are not necessarily to be annotatedfor negation.
They can, however, have a specula-tive content as well.
The following sentence con-tains cannot, which is a negative keyword on itsown, but not in this case:(A small amount of adenopathy <cannot be> com-pletely <excluded>).Some other sentences containing a negative key-word are not to be annotated either for speculationor for negation.
In the following example, thenegative keyword is accompanied by an adverband their meaning is neither speculative nor nega-tive.
The sequence of the negative keyword and theadverb can be easily substituted by another adverbor adjective having the same (or a similar) mean-ing, which is by no means negative ?
as shown inthe example.
In this way, the sentence below canbe viewed as a positive assertion (not a statementof the non-existence of something).Thus, signaling in NK3.3 cells is not always(=sometimes) identical with that in primary NKcells.As can be seen from the above examples, hedgingor negation is determined not just by the presence42of an apparent cue: it is rather an issue of the key-word, the context and the syntactic structure of thesentence taken together.2.5 Annotation processOur BioScope corpus was annotated by two inde-pendent linguists following the guidelines writtenby our linguist expert before the annotation of thecorpus was initiated.
These guidelines were devel-oped throughout the annotation process as annota-tors were often confronted with problematic issues.The annotators were not allowed to communicatewith each other as far as the annotation processwas concerned, but they could turn to the expertwhen needed and regular meetings were also heldbetween the annotators and the linguist expert inorder to discuss recurring and/or frequent problem-atic issues.
When the two annotations for one sub-corpus were finalised, differences between the twowere resolved by the linguist expert, yielding thegold standard labeling of the subcorpus.3 Corpus detailsIn this section we will discuss in detail the overallcharacteristics of the corpus we developed, includ-ing a brief description of the texts that constitutethe BioScope corpus and some general statisticsconcerning the size of each part, distribution ofnegation/hedge cues, ambiguity levels and finallywe will present statistics on the final results of theannotation work.3.1 Corpus textsThe corpus consists of texts taken from 4 differentsources and 3 different types in order to ensure thatit captures the heterogenity of language use in thebiomedical domain.
We decided to add clinicalfree-texts (radiology reports), biological full papersand biological paper abstracts (texts from Genia).Table 1 summarises the chief characteristics ofthe three subcorpora.
The 3rd and 5th rows of thetable show the ratio of sentences which containnegated or uncertain statements.
The 4rd and 6throws show the number of negation and hedge cueoccurrences in the given corpus.A major part of the corpus consists of clinicalfree-texts.
We chose to add medical texts to thecorpus in order to facilitate research on nega-tion/hedge detection in the clinical domain.
Theradiology report corpus that was used for the clini-cal coding challenge (Pestian et al, 2007) organ-ised by the Computational Medicine Center inCincinatti, Ohio in 2007 was annotated for nega-tions and uncertainty along with the scopes of eachphenomenon.
This part contains 1954 documents,each having a clinical history and an impressionpart, the latter being denser in negated and specula-tive parts.Another part of the corpus consists of full sci-entific articles.
5 articles from FlyBase (the samedata were used by Medlock and Briscoe (2007) forevaluating sentence-level hedge classifiers) and 4articles from the open access BMC Bioinformaticswebsite were downloaded and annotated for nega-tions, uncertainty and their scopes.
Full papers areparticularly useful for evaluating negation/hedgeclassifiers as different parts of an article displaydifferent properties in the use of speculative or ne-gated phrases.
Take, for instance, the Conclusionssection of scientific papers that tends to containsignificantly more uncertain or negative findingsthan the description of Experimental settings andmethods.Scientific abstracts are the main targets forvarious Text Mining applications like protein-protein interaction mining due to their public ac-cessibility (e.g.
through PubMed).
We thereforedecided to include quite a lot of texts from the ab-stracts of scientific papers.
This is why we in-cluded the abstracts of the Genia corpus (Collier etal., 1999).
This decision was straightforward fortwo reasons.
First, the Genia corpus contains syn-tax tree annotation, which allows a comparisonbetween scope annotation and syntactic structure.Being syntactic in nature, scopes should align withthe bracket structure of syntax trees, while scoperesolution algorithms that exploit treebank data canbe used as a theoretical upper bound for theevaluation of parsers for resolving negative/hedgescopes.
The other reason was that scope annotationcan mutually benefit from the rich annotations ofthe Genia corpus, such as term annotation (evalua-tion) and event annotation (comparison with thebiologist uncertainty labeling of events).The corpus consists of more than 20.000 anno-tated sentences altogether.
We consider this size tobe sufficiently large to serve as a standard evalua-tion corpus for negation/hedge detection in thebiomedical domain.43Clinical Full Paper Abstract#Documents 1954 9 1273#Sentences 6383 2624 11872Negationsentences 6.6% 13.76% 13.45%#Negation cues 871 404 1757Hedge sentences 13.4% 22.29% 17.69%#Hedge cues 1137 783 2691Table 1: Statistics of the three subcorpora.3.2 Agreement analysisWe measured the consistency level of the annota-tion using inter-annotator agreement analysis.
Theinter-annotator agreement rate is defined as theF?=1 measure of one annotation, treating the secondone as the gold standard.
We calculated agreementrates for all three subcorpora between the two in-dependent annotators and between the two annota-tors and the gold standard labeling.
The goldstandard labeling was prepared by the creator ofthe annotation guide, who resolved all cases wherethe two annotators disagreed on a keyword or itsscope annotation.We measured the agreement rate of annotatingnegative and hedge keywords, and the agreementrate of annotating the linguistic scope for eachphenomenon.
We distinguished left-scope, right-scope and full scope agreement that required bothleft and right scope boundaries to match exactly tobe considered as coinciding annotations.
A detailedanalysis of the consistency levels for the three sub-corpora and the ambiguity levels for each negativeand hedge keyword (that is, the ratio of a keywordbeing annotated as a negative/speculative cue andthe number of all the occurrences of the samekeyword in the corpus) can be found at the corpushomepage.3.3 BioScope corpus availabilityThe corpus is available free of charge for researchpurposes and can be obtained for a modest pricefor business use.
For more details, see the Bio-Scope homepage:www.inf.u-szeged.hu/rgai/bioscope.4 ConclusionsIn this paper we reported on the construction of acorpus annotated for negations, speculations andtheir linguistic scopes.
The corpus is accessible foracademic purposes and is free of charge.
Apartfrom the intended goal of serving as a commonresource for the training, testing and comparison ofbiomedical Natural Language Processing systems,the corpus is also a good resource for the linguisticanalysis of scientific and clinical texts.The most obvious conclusions here are that theusual language of clinical documents makes itmuch easier to detect negation and uncertaintycues than in scientific texts because of the veryhigh ratio of the actual cue words (i.e.
low ambigu-ity level), which explains the high accuracy scoresreported in the literature.
In scientific texts ?
whichare nowadays becoming a popular target for TextMining (for literature-based knowledge discovery)?
the detection and scope resolution of negationand uncertainty is, on the other hand, a problem ofgreat complexity, with the percentage of non-hedge occurrences being as high as 90% for somehedge cue candidates in biological paper abstracts.Take for example the keyword or which is labeledas a speculative keyword in only 11.32% of thecases in scientific abstracts, while it was labeled asspeculative in 97.86% of the cases in clinical texts.Identifying the scope is also more difficult in sci-entific texts where the average sentence length ismuch longer than in clinical data, and the style ofthe texts is also more literary in the former case.In our study we found that hedge detection is amore difficult problem than identifying negationsbecause the number of possible cue words is higherand the ratio of real cues is significantly lower inthe case of speculation (higher keyword/non-keyword ambiguity).
The annotator-agreement ta-ble also confirms this opinion: the detection ofhedging is more complicated than negation evenfor humans.Our corpus statistics also prove the importanceof negation and hedge detection.
The ratio of ne-gated and hedge sentences in the corpus varies inthe subcorpora, but we can say that over 20% ofthe sentences contains a modifier that radicallyinfluences the semantic content of the sentence.One of the chief construction principles of theBioScope corpus was to facilitate the train-ing/development of automatic negation and hedgedetection systems.
Such systems have to solve twosub-problems: they have to identify real cue words(note that the probability of any word being a key-word can be different for various domains) and44then they have to determine the linguistic scope ofactual keywords.These automatic hedge and negation detectionmethods can be utilised in a variety of ways in a(biomedical) Text Mining system.
They can beused as a preprocessing tool, i.e.
each word in adetected scope can be removed from the docu-ments if we seek to extract true assertions.
This cansignificantly reduce the level of noise for process-ing in such cases where only a document-level la-beling is provided (like that for the ICD-9 codingdataset) and just clear textual evidence for certainthings should be extracted.
On the other hand,similar systems can classify previously extractedstatements according to their certainty or uncer-tainty, which is generally an important issue in theautomatic processing of scientific texts.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by the NKTHgrant of the Jedlik ?nyos R&D Programme 2007(project codename TUDORKA7) of the Hungariangovernment.
The authors wish to thank the anony-mous reviewers for their useful suggestions andcomments.
The authors also wish to thank the crea-tors of the ICD-9 coding dataset and the Geniacorpus for making the texts that were used herepublicly available.
The authors thank Jin-DongKim as well for the useful comments and sugges-tions on the annotation guide and Orsolya Vinczeand Mih?ly Mink?
(the two annotators) for theirwork.ReferencesWendy W. Chapman, Will Bridewell, Paul Hanbury,Gregory F. Cooper and Bruce G. Buchanan.
2001.
ASimple Algorithm for Identifying Negated Findingsand Diseases in Discharge Summaries.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, 34(5):301?310.N.
Collier, H. S. Park, N. Ogata, Y. Tateishi, C. Nobata,T.
Ohta, T. Sekimizu, H. Imai, K. Ibushi, and J. Tsu-jii.
1999.
The GENIA project: corpus-based knowl-edge acquisition and information extraction fromgenome research papers.
Proceedings of EACL-99.Peter L. Elkin, Steven H. Brown, Brent A. Bauer, CaseyS.
Husser, William Carruth, Larry R. Bergstrom andDietlind L. Wahner-Roedler.
2005.
A controlled trialof automated classification of negation from clinicalnotes.
BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Mak-ing 5:13 doi:10.1186/1472-6947-5-13.C.
Friedman, P.O.
Alderson, J.H.
Austin, J.J. Cimino,and S.B.
Johnson.
1994.
A general natural-languagetext processor for clinical radiology.
Journal of theAmerican Medical Informatics Association,1(2):161?174.Yang Huang and Henry J. Lowe.
2007.
A Novel HybridApproach to Automated Negation Detection in Clini-cal Radiology Reports.
Journal of the AmericanMedical Informatics Association, 14(3):304?311.Ken Hyland.
1994.
Hedging in academic writing andEAP textbooks.
English for Specific Purposes,13(3):239?256.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun'ichi Tsujii.
2008.Corpus annotation for mining biomedical eventsfrom literature.
BMC Bioinformatics 2008, 9:10.Marc Light, Xin Ting Qui, and Padmini Srinivasan.2004.
The language of bioscience: Facts, specula-tions, and statements in between.
In Proceedings ofBioLink 2004 Workshop on Linking Biological Lit-erature, Ontologies and Databases: Tools for Users.Boston, Massachusetts, Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, 17?24.Ben Medlock and Ted Briscoe.
2007.
Weakly super-vised learning for hedge classification in scientificliterature.
In Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meetingof the Association of Computational Linguistics.
Pra-gue, Association for Computational Linguistics, 992?999.Pradeep G. Mutalik, Aniruddha Deshpande, andPrakash M. Nadkarni.
2001.
Use of General-purposeNegation Detection to Augment Concept Indexing ofMedical Documents: A Quantitative Study Using theUMLS.
Journal of the American Medical InformaticsAssociation, 8(6):598?609.John P. Pestian, Chris Brew, Pawel Matykiewicz, DJHovermale, Neil Johnson, K. Bretonnel Cohen, andWlodzislaw Duch.
2007.
A shared task involvingmulti-label classification of clinical free text.
In Bio-logical, translational, and clinical language process-ing.
Prague, Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 97?104.Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, Juho Heimonen, JariBj?rne, Jorma Boberg, Jouni J?rvinen, and TapioSalakoski.
2007.
BioInfer: a corpus for informationextraction in the biomedical domain.
BMC Bioinfor-matics 2007, 8:50 doi:10.1186/1471-2105-8-50.45
