Proceedings of the 9th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 29?36,Columbus, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsAgreement and Disputes in DialogueAlex LascaridesSchool of Informatics,University of Edinburghalex@inf.ed.ac.ukNicholas AsherIRITUniversite?
Paul Sabatier, Toulouseasher@irit.frAbstractIn this paper we define agreement in termsof shared public commitments, and implicitagreement is conditioned on the semantics ofthe relational speech acts (e.g., Narration, Ex-planation) that each agent performs.
We pro-vide a consistent interpretation of disputes,and updating a logical form with the currentutterance always involves extending it and notrevising it, even if the current utterance deniesearlier content.1 IntroductionA semantic theory of dialogue should account forwhat content dialogue agents agree on.
This in-cludes implicit agreement:(1) a.
A: The room went dark.b.
A: Max turned out the light.c.
B: And John drew the blinds.Intuitively, A and B agree that the room went dark,that Max turned out the light, and that the latter isat least part of the reason why the former occurred.Thus, implicatures can be agreed upon (that (1b)is part of the cause of (1a) goes beyond composi-tional semantics), and agreement can be implicated(B does not repeat (1a) and (1b) nor utter OK to in-dicate his agreement with A).In principle, the Grounding Acts Model (GAM,Traum (1994), Traum and Allen (1994)) supportsimplicit agreement.
But it demands an acceptanceact for agreement to occur, and its current rules don?tpredict such an act from (1c).
Segmented DiscourseRepresentation Theory (SDRT, Asher and Lascarides(2003)) errs in the opposite direction.
It stipulatesthat lack of disagreement implicates agreement, andso in (1) too much is agreed upon; e.g., (1c).
Thus,SDRT needs modification to deal with (1), just asGAM needs supplementation.Agreement can occur even in the context of cor-rections or disputes.
In (2), A asserts (2a) and B itsnegation, but a consistent interpretation of (2) over-all is a pre-requisite to explaining how A and B endup agreeing on (2b).
(2) a.
A: It?s raining.b.
B: No it?s not.c.
A: OK.Since a correction negates content in the discoursecontext, an obvious strategy for maintaining consis-tency would be to revise the semantic representationof the context when updating it with a correction.But we want to avoid revision, both at the level ofmodel theory and at the level of composing logi-cal form.
This is for two reasons.
Firstly, revisionmeans that there is in principle no general way ofstating what information is preserved from the pre-vious discourse state to the current one.
But if weconstruct logical form in a monotonic way?in ourcase, this means that the discourse structure for aconversation at turn n is an elementary substructureof the discourse structure at turn n + 1?then stan-dard preservation results from model theory apply.Secondly, monotonicity guarantees that interpreta-tion algorithms can proceed incrementally, combin-ing information from various sources in a nonde-structive way (Alshawi and Crouch, 1992).To our knowledge, there is currently no dynamicsemantics for dialogue that yields adequate interpre-tations of corrections and implicit agreement.
Wewill address this gap here.
In Section 2, we re-29view two existing approaches to motivate our ba-sic strategy, which we then describe in Section 3.We will refine SDRT so that it tracks each dialogueparticipant?s public commitments.
Further, whileidentifying a speech act involves default reasoning,constructing logical form will be monotonic, in thesense that the logical form of an updated discoursealways extends that of its discourse context, ratherthan revising it.2 MotivationWe will say that a proposition p is grounded justin case p is agreed by the dialogue agents to betrue.
This follows Clark?s terminology, in particu-lar the concept of grounding a joint action at level 4(Clark, 1996, p388).
Clark?s work focusses almostentirely on grounding at the so-called ?lower?
lev-els; how agents ground an understanding of whatwas said, for instance.
By contrast, in order to fo-cus on grounding at the higher level, we will assumea highly idealised scenario where dialogue agentsunderstand each other perfectly, resolving ambigu-ities in the same way.
One of Clark?s main claims isthat grounding at all levels occurs only when thereis positive evidence for it, and we aim to explore ina logically precise manner exactly what amount ofpositive evidence suffices for grounding a proposi-tion.
In future work, we intend to demonstrate thatour definition of grounding can model grounding atthe lower levels too; this will involve extending theframework to represent misunderstandings.GAM links the speech acts performed with its ef-fects, including effects on grounding (Traum, 1994).Each conversational participant builds a conversa-tional information state (or CIS).
Update effects ofparticular speech acts (and their preconditions) arespecified in terms of changes to (and conditions on)the CIS.
For example, Figure 1 is the update rule forthe speech act e where B assertsK to A.
It updatesthe common ground (G) to include an event e?
thatB intends A to believe K and a conditional evente??
that should A accept the assertion, then A wouldbe socially committed to B to believeK (shown viathe attitude SCCOE).
The update rules form a hier-archy, so that more specific acts inherit effects frommore general ones.
The speech act in Figure 1 in-herits that B is SCCOE-ed to A to K, for instance.Decision trees then predict which speech acts havebeen performed.While it is possible in principle for GAM to in-clude rules that accurately predict (1c)?s illocution-ary effects, the rules that are actually provided onlyrecognise (1c) as an assertion.
Consequently, its ef-fects are under-generated: B is socially committedto (1c), but not to (1a), (1b) or a causal relation be-tween them.
GAM needs to be supplemented withrules for inferring that B was also implicitly accept-ing parts of A?s contribution.Such acceptances, we argue, should be condi-tioned on relational speech acts.
(1c) continues(1b) as a narrative, and the narrative so formed ex-plains (1a).
These are relational speech acts (Asherand Lascarides, 2003): they are speech acts becausecontinuing a narrative or explaining something arethings that people do with utterances; and they arerelational because the successful performance of thespeech act Explanation, say, is logically dependenton the content of the utterance (or sequence of ut-terances) that is being explained (in this case, (1a)).Thus even though the compositional semantics of(1c) does not entail (1b) or (1a), its illocutionarycontribution does entail them?or, perhaps more ac-curately, entails that B is publicly committed tothem.
Similarly, through using (1b) as an Explana-tion of (1a), A is publicly committed to (1a), (1b)and a causal relationship between them.
Thus, whatis grounded amounts to the shared semantic entail-ments of the rhetorical relations?or speech acts?that both A and B performed.
This explains whypositive evidence for grounding is necessary (Clark,1996): both agents must perform a speech act withappropriate semantic consequences for a propositionto become grounded.
An implicit acceptance (or ac-knowledgement in SDRT terms) is then logically de-pendent on the formal semantic interpretations of therelational speech acts performed.
For instance, B?scommitments to (1a) and (1b) stem from Narrationand Explanation acts he performed in uttering (1c).Since GAM incorporates relational speech acts,the general principles that we propose here couldextend it.
However, we have chosen to use SDRTbecause it defines logical form more abstractly, al-lowing us to exploit its model theory to determinegrounded propositions.
In contrast to GAM, we willnot explicitly represent what?s grounded (and what?snot) in logical form.
Doing so would force us to in-30Name: AssertCondition on update: G :: [e : Assert(B,A,K)]Update G+= [e?]e?
: Try(B, ?s?.s?
: Bel(A,K)),[e??]e??
: Accept(A, e) ?
[s|s : SCCOE(A,B,K)]Figure 1: The update rule for assertioncorporate revision should grounded content get dis-puted, as can happen in a dynamic setting, wherefacts and beliefs change as the agents engage in di-alogue.
We will make grounding a property of theinterpretation of a logical form, and not part of itsform.SDRT offers a formal semantics of relationalspeech acts (Asher and Lascarides, 2003).
Further-more, in contrast to theories of discourse interpreta-tion that equate interpreting a discourse with its ef-fects on the agents?
beliefs (e.g., Hobbs et al (1993),Grosz and Sidner (1990)), SDRT separates the gluelogic (i.e., the logic for constructing a logical formof what was said) from the logic for interpretingthe logical form (i.e., reasoning about whether whatwas said is true, or should be believed).
This en-ables SDRT to maintain a decidable procedure forcomputing logical form, even though identifying thespeech acts performed inherently involves common-sense reasoning, and hence consistency tests.
Asherand Lascarides (2003, p78) argue that it must be de-cidable to explain why, as Lewis (1969) claims, peo-ple by and large have a common understanding ofwhat was said.SDRT?s current representation of (1) is (1?
), wherepi1, pi2 and pi3 label the contents of the clauses (1a?c) respectively, and pi0 and pi label the content of thedialogue segments that are created by the rhetoricalconnections:(1?)
pi0 : Explanation(pi1, pi)pi : Narration(pi2, pi3)In words, (1?)
implies that the room went dark, andthis was caused by a combination of Max switchingoff the light followed by John drawing the blinds.In the absence of speech acts of denial such as Cor-rection, SDRT stipulates that all content is grounded(Asher and Lascarides, 2003, p363).
This leads di-rectly to the wrong predictions for (1).Unlike GAM, SDRT fails to track the differentcommitments of individual speakers.
Simply la-belling each speech act with its speaker doesn?t suf-fice, as dialogue (3) shows.1(3) pi1.
A: John went to Harrods.pi2.
B: He bought a suit.pi3.
A: He then entered the food halls.pi4.
B: He looked for foie gras.Intuitively, A?s utterance pi3 publicly commitshim not only to Narration(pi2, pi3), but also toNarration(pi1, pi2) (for this latter speech act entails,while the former does not, that John bought the suitat Harrods).
And yet B was the speaker who per-formed the speech act Narration(pi1, pi2), for it isB who uttered pi2.
Accordingly, we abandon repre-senting dialogue with a single SDRS, and replace itwith a tuple of SDRSs?one SDRS per discourse par-ticipant per turn, representing all his commitmentsup to and including that turn.
We define groundinga proposition p in terms of joint entailments fromthose commitments, and hence grounding becomesa semantic property of the logical form.
This solvesSDRT?s over-generation problems with grounding.For instance in (1), A?s public commitments are toExplanation(pi1, pi2).
B, on the other hand, is com-mitted to the content expressed by (1?).
The sharedpublic commitments then accurately reflect what Aand B agree on.
We also avoid the under-generationproblems of GAM; grounding need not arise froman acceptance but instead from so-called veridicalrhetorical relations (e.g., Explanation and Narra-tion) and the logical relationships among their mean-ings.Grounded content is not marked as such in logicalform.
This makes monotonic construction of logicalform feasible, even when grounded propositions getdisputed.
A further part of our strategy for eschew-ing revision is to assume that the SDRSs for each turnrepresent all of A?s and B?s current commitments,1For simplicity, we use a contructed example here, althoughSacks (1992) attests many similar, naturally occurring dialogueswhere the agents build a narrative together.31from the beginning of the dialogue to the end of thatturn.
The alternative, where prior but ongoing com-mitments from turn i?
1 are not shown in the repre-sentation of turn i, and accordingly the input contextfor interpreting turn i is the output one from inter-preting turn i?
1, would condemn us to incorporat-ing revision into the model theory.
This is becauseA may commit in turn i to something that is incon-sistent with his commitments in turn i?
1 (e.g., A?sutterance (2c)), and without revision the output con-text from turn i would then be ?.
We want to avoidrevision while maintaining consistency.
Represent-ing all current commitments in each turn avoids re-vision in the model theory, because one can com-pute the current commitments of A and B by dy-namically interpreting their SDRSs for just the lastturn.
One can detect how A?s commitments havechanged during the dialogue, but only by comparingthe SDRSs for the relevant turns.2We will model disputes by adding non-truth pre-serving operators over relevant segments in the log-ical form.
This avoids the need for downdating andrevision in both the construction and the interpreta-tion of logical form.3 Individuating CommitmentsThe logical form for a dialogue turn proposed inSection 2 generalises to dialogues with more thantwo agents in the obvious way: the logical form of adialogue turn is a set {Sa : a ?
D}, where Sa is anSDRS and D is the set of dialogue agents.
The log-ical form of the dialogue overall will be the logicalforms of each of its turns (and all dialogue agentsbuild all the SDRSs in the logical form, not just theSDRSs representing their own commitments).
Weassume an extremely simple notion of turns, whereturn boundaries occur whenever the speaker changes(even if this happens mid-clause), and we ignore fornow cases where agents speak simultaneously.This new logical form for dialogue requires a newdynamic interpretation.
The context Cd of evalua-tion for interpreting a dialogue turn is a set of dy-namic contexts for interpreting SDRSs?one for each2Pre?vot et al (2006) represent dialogue in terms of commit-ment slates.
Their idea inspired our work, but the details differconsiderably, particularly on monotonic construction.agent a ?
D:Cd = {?Cia, Coa?
: a ?
D}Thus Cia and Coa are world assignment pairs, giventhe definitions from Asher and Lascarides (2003).For instance, (4) defines the dynamic interpreta-tion of veridical relations (e.g.
Narration, Explana-tion), where meaning postulates then stipulate theillocutionary effects ?R(?,?
)?e.g., for Narrationthey stipulate the spatio-temporal progression of theevents (we gloss the content that?s labelled pi asKpi,and m in [.
]m stands for monologue).
Equation (5)defines the dynamic interpretation of Correction.
(4) (w, f)[R(?, ?
)]m(w?, g) iff(w, f)[K?
?K?
?
?R(?,?
)]m(w?, g)(5) (w, f)[Correction(?, ?
)]m(w?, g) iff(w, f)[(?K?)
?K?
?
?Corr(?,?
)]m(w?, g)The context change potential (CCP) of a dialogueturn T = {Sa : a ?
D} is the product of the CCPsof the individual SDRSs:Cd[T ]dC?d iff C?d = {?Cia, Coa?
?
[Sa]m :?Cia, Coa?
?
Cd, a ?
D}Accordingly, dialogue entailments can be defined interms of the entailment relation |=m for SDRSs af-forded by [.
]m:T |=d ?
iff ?a ?
D,Sa |=m ?This makes |=d the shared entailment of each agent?spublic commitments.
And we assume that content ?is grounded or agreed upon by a dialogue turn T iffT |=d ?.
Finally, given that the SDRSs for a dialogueturn reflect all an agent?s current commitments, theinterpretation of the dialogue overall is the CCP ofits last turn.The logical form of (3) is shown in Table 1 (wehave omitted the logical forms of the clauses, la-belled pi1 to pi4).
The semantics of the SDRSs forthe last turn correctly predict the following proposi-tion to be grounded (for it is entailed by them): Johnwent to Harrods, followed by buying a suit (at Har-rods), followed by his entering the food halls.There is a sharing of labels across the SDRSs inTable 1.
This general feature reflects the realitythat one speaker may perform a relational speech actwhose first argument is part of someone else?s turn,32Turn A?s SDRS B?s SDRS1 pi1 ?2 pi1 pi2B : Narration(pi1, pi2)3 pi3A : Narration(pi1, pi2) ?
Narration(pi2, pi3) pi2B : Narration(pi1, pi2)4 pi3A : Narration(pi1, pi2) ?
Narration(pi2, pi3) pi4B : Narration(pi1, pi2) ?
Narration(pi2, pi3)?Narration(pi3, pi4)Table 1: The logical form of dialogue (3).or part of his own previous turns.
Sharing labels cap-tures the intuition that an agent?s speech acts can re-veal his commitments (or lack of them) to contextualcontent, even if this is linguistically implicit.Including prior but ongoing commitments in theSDRS for the current turn has consequences for thegeneral architecture of the theory: we must stipu-late what commitments persist across turns whenconstructing the SDRSs.
Consider the fourth turnof dialogue (3).
Intuitively, uttering pi4 commitsB to the illocutionary content of Narration(pi3, pi4).But in addition, he is also committed at this pointto Narration(pi1, pi2)?Narration(pi2, pi3), as shown.Those commitments persist from prior turns; theyare even transferred from one speaker to another.However, we will shortly examine other examples,involving corrections and even explicit acknowl-edgements (or an acceptance in Traum?s (1994) ter-minology), where the commitments do not persist.To handle the data, we must make the ?commitmentpersistence?
principle sensitive to distinct relationalspeech acts, and it must support a monotonic con-struction of logical form.To motivate our persistence principle, considerhow A and B get to the commitments shown inTable 1.
A?s SDRS for the first turn is pi1 : Kpi1 ,where Kpi1 stands for the representation of Johnwent to Harrods.
Since B hasn?t said anything yet,his SDRS for the first turn is ?.
SDRT?s glue logicuses default axioms to predict the relation that con-nects pi2 to pi1 (Asher and Lascarides, 2003); here,these defaults should yield that B is committed topi2B : Narration(pi1, pi2) (we adopt the conventionthat the root label of the speaker d?s SDRS for turn jis named pijd).
A?s SDRS for the second turn is thesame as the first turn: he hasn?t spoken since, and sohis commitments are unchanged.In the third turn, the glue logic should predict thatA?s utterance pi3 forms a narrative with pi2.
But sim-ply adding this to A?s prior SDRS isn?t sufficient.First, the result is not a well-formed SDRS, because itwon?t contain a single root label.
Secondly, it missesan important interplay between discourse structureand grounding: adding only Narration(pi2, pi3) toA?s existing commitment to Kpi1 makes A commit-ted to the compositional semantics of pi2, but notto its illocutionary contribution conveyed by B (e.g.that John bought the suit at Harrods).
And yet intu-itively, uttering pi3 implicates that this (linguisticallyimplicit) content is agreed on.Dialogues (1) and (3) feature discourse relationsthat occur in monologue as well.
Several agents canuse these to build up a narrative together, as noted bySacks (1992).
Sacks?
observations affirm that suchdiscourse relations can be used to perform ?implicit?acknowledgements, and what?s more they suggestthat the implicit acknowledgement is not only ofthe prior contribution?s compositional semantics butalso its illocutionary effects.
These observationslead us to add the following Persistence princi-ple to the glue logic, together with axioms that iden-tify undenied commitments (UC (?)
stands for theundenied commitments of the utterance or segment?):?
Persistence:?
: R(?, ?)
?
?
: UC (?
)Different glue-logic axioms will then identify theundenied commitments for different speech acts.The present case concerns simple left veridical (slv)relations?those that do not explicitly endorse orcriticise any previous commitments.
Note ?
> ?means ?If ?
then normally ?
?, and T (d, j, pi) meansthat label pi is a part of agent d?s SDRS for turn j:?
Undenied Commitments:(?
: R(?, ?)
?
T (d1, j, ?)
?
slv(R)???
: R?
(?, ?)
?
T (d2, j ?
1, ??))
>(?
: UC(?)
?
?
: R?
(?, ?
))33Undenied Commitments states that if d1 com-mits to R(?, ?)
where R is simple left veridical andd2 is already committed to R?
(?, ?
), then normallythe undenied commitments of ?
include R?
(?, ?
).Examples of simple left veridical relations includeNarration and Explanation but not Acknowledge-ment (since this explicitly endorses prior content) orCorrection (since this denies prior content).Persistence and UndeniedCommitments predict that A?s SDRS for the thirdturn of (3) includes pi3A : Narration(pi1, pi2).
This isbecause default rules yield pi3A : Narration(pi2, pi3),and Narration(pi1, pi2) is in B?s SDRS.Persistence and Undenied Commitmentslikewise predict that Narration(pi1, pi2) andNarration(pi2, pi3) are a part of B?s SDRS for thefourth turn, as shown in Table 1.Undenied Commitments is defeasible.
Thisis because if the illocutionary contribution of A?s(left-veridical) speech act R(?, ?)
conflicts withsome proposition p that B conveyed by uttering?, then clearly A?s speech act should not be con-strued as an implicit acknowledgement of p. Thisaffects the analysis of (1), whose logical form isTable 2.
B?s SDRS after the second turn doesnot include Explanation(pi1, pi2), even though hisutterance pi3 attaches with the veridical relationNarration to pi2, and A?s SDRS for turn 1 in-cludes Explanation(pi1, pi2).
Persistence ap-plies to this example (for label pi2) and the an-tecedent to Undenied Commitments is sat-isfied, but Explanation(pi1, pi2) is not an unde-nied commitment of pi2 because its (nonmono-tonic) semantic consequences conflict with those ofExplanation(pi1, pi), a speech act that the glue logicmust identify as one that B intended to perform (or,in other words, publicly commit to) as a byproductof uttering pi3.
Explanation(pi1, pi2) conflicts withExplanation(pi1, pi) because the former nonmono-tonically entails, via a scalar implicature, that Maxturning out the light was the sole cause of the roomgoing dark, while the latter (monotonically) entailsit was a strict part of it.
This example illustrates howthe default logic rendered by > must be specified interms of the consistency in what follows nonmono-tonically, rather than what follows monotonically.Undenied Commitments does not applyfor the veridical relation Acknowledgement; i.e.,utterances of the form OK, I agree, repeat-ing prior content, and the like.
In words,Acknowledgement(pi1, pi2) entails Kpi1 , Kpi2 andthat Kpi2 implies Kpi1 ; to use the GAM term, it is anact of explicit acceptance.
Dialogue (6) illustrateswhy Acknowledgement behaves differently from thesimple left veridical relations like Narration:(6) pi1.
B: John is not a good speakerpi2.
B: because he?s hard to understand.pi3.
A: I agree he?s hard to understand.The compositional semantics of pi3 makes Aexplicit about what in B?s turn he acknowl-edges: A must be committed to (at least)Acknowledgement(pi2, pi3).
What is outside thescope of the acknowledgement?namely, B?s pu-tative explanation for why John is not a goodspeaker?is not denied in (6).
It would be consistentto add Explanation(pi1, pi2) toA?s commitments, butit?s simply not warranted.
Dialogue (6) shows thatwhen the explicit endorsement conveys sufficientlyspecific content, it appears to carry a scalar impli-cature that this precise content is endorsed, and nomore.Another reason for excluding explicit acknowl-edgements from the set of simple left veridical rela-tions is that such speech acts come with their owngrounding requirements.
Acknowledgements canhave scope over implicatures as well as composi-tional semantic contents, since the first argumentto an Acknowledgement relation can be a label ofan arbitrarily complex SDRS.
So by acknowledg-ing pij , we do not thereby acknowledge the impli-catures of pij itself; had we wished to do so, wewould have included them within the scope of theacknowledgement.
That is, we would infer the re-lation Acknowledgement(pi?j , pii), where pi?j has se-mantic scope over pij , making pij and the rhetori-cal relations it engages in part of what is (explic-itly) endorsed.
It is because the discourse functionof an acknowledgement is precisely to say what oneagent commits to from another agent?s turn?i.e.,what are the undenied commitments in this case?that Persistence applies redundantly.Explicit acknowledgements have been studiedby Traum and Hinkelman (1992), among others.Here, we will ignore interpretations of an utter-ance pi2 (e.g., OK) as an acknowledgement thatKpi134Turn A?s SDRS B?s SDRS1 pi1A : Explanation(pi1, pi2) ?2 pi1A : Explanation(pi1, pi2) pi2B : Explanation(pi1, pi)pi : Narration(pi2, pi3)Table 2: The logical form of (1).was said (represented in SDRT with the so-calledmetatalk relation Acknowledgement*(pi1, pi2)), in-stead focussing entirely on an interpretation of pi2using Acknowledgement (i.e., a commitment toKpi1 ,which in turn entails a commitment that Kpi1 wassaid).
But even so there is ambiguity, because lin-guistic form does not always fully determine whatthe acknowledgement has scope over.
Let?s assumethat A?s utterance pi3 in (7) is an acknowledgementof content and not just of understanding that content:(7) pi1.
B: John is not a good speakerpi2.
B: because he is hard to understand.pi3.
A: OK.Acknowledgement(pi2, pi3) entails Kpi2 .
Making pi2the only label that?s acknowledged leads to an inter-pretation where the proposition that pi2 explains pi1is not acknowledged.
This ?narrow scope?
attach-ment permits A to continue by challenging the ex-planatory link, e.g., by uttering but that?s not whyhe?s not a good speaker.
Another interpretationof (7) is that A commits to all of B?s commit-ments, including the implicatures: this is expressedby adding Acknowledgement(pi1B, pi3) to A?s SDRS,where pi1B : Explanation(pi1, pi2).
Indeed, if OKis all that A says, then one defaults to this wide-scope interpretation.
Even if A follows OK withHe IS hard to understand with high pitch accentsand a falling boundary tone, the preferred interpre-tation contrasts with (6), to be one where OK is anAcknowledgement of pi1B , and He?s hard to under-stand is an explanation of that acknowledgement act(marked with the metatalk relation Explanation* inSDRT).
It is straightforward to add glue-logic ax-ioms for constructing logical form that reflect theseprinciples for identifying the first argument of Ac-knowledgement.In dialogue (2), A commits to the negation ofhis prior commitment.
As before, constructing B?sSDRS for the second turn involves using the gluelogic to identify how pi2 connects to pi1.
So longas their semantic incompatibility is transferred, inshallow form, to the glue logic, then the generalprinciple that the necessary semantic consequencesof a speech act are normally sufficient for inferringthat it was performed will apply, yielding pi2B :Correction(pi1, pi2) (see Table 3).
The cue phraseOK is then used by the glue logic to infer pi3A :Acknowledgement(pi2, pi3).
This resolves the under-specified content OK to Kpi2 ; and thus as before theglue logic also yields pi3A : Correction(pi1, pi3), asshown.
It?s not raining is entailed by the SDRSsfor turn 3.
The interpretation of each turn is con-sistent (i.e., the output state is non-empty), althoughthe SDRSs for turn 2 are mutually inconsistent (A?sSDRS entails that it?s raining andB?s entails it?s not).Finally, the content associated with each label doesnot change from one turn to the next, making theconstruction of logical form monotonic.Clark (1996) doesn?t make precise exactly whatcounts as sufficient positive evidence for grounding.Similarly, Traum and Allen (1994) don?t providerules for inferring when a speaker has performedan implicit acceptance.
Our framework makesthe quantity of positive evidence that?s needed forgrounding propositions logically precise, in termsof the relational speech acts that both speakersperform, and the logical relationships between thesemantics of those speech acts.
Persistenceand Undenied Commitments capture a gen-eral class of examples involving implicit agreement.Sufficient positive evidence for grounding a propo-sition through explicit endorsements and challengesrests on the formal semantic interpretation of the rel-evant speech acts?namely Acknowledgement andCorrection?and the rules by which one determinesthe first argument of these relations.4 ConclusionWe have presented a novel treatment of agreementsand disputes in which the construction of logi-cal form is monotonic in the subsumptive sense35Turn A?s SDRS B?s SDRS1 pi1 : Kpi1 ?2 pi1 : Kpi1 pi2B : Correction(pi1, pi2)3 pi3A : Correction(pi1, pi3) ?
Acknowledgement(pi2, pi3) pi2B : Correction(pi1, pi2)Table 3: The logical form of dialogue (2).
(Shieber, 1986); the semantic representation of thediscourse context is an elementary substructure ofthe representation of the dialogue updated with thecurrent utterance, even if the current utterance de-nies earlier content.
However, the logical form re-mains a product of complex default reasoning, sinceidentifying the speech acts that were performed in-volves commonsense reasoning with the linguisticand non-linguistic context.The relationship between the grounded proposi-tions and the interpretation of the dialogue is entirelytransparent and is defined in terms of the model the-ory of the logical forms.
It provides a logical basisfor exploring Clark?s (1996) notion of positive evi-dence for grounding.
A crucial ingredient in our ac-count was the use of relational speech acts, and thelogical relationships among their semantics.We believe our definition of grounding asshared commitment is capable of modelling Clark?smore central concern?grounding the understand-ing of what was said.
The left-veridical rela-tions that are the hallmark of grounding at level4 entail grounding at the lower levels thanks tothe semantics of DSDRSs.
Moreover, SDRT?smetatalk relations?such as Explanation*(?, ?)
andAcknowledgement*(?, ?
)?commit an agent to thefact that K?
was said without committing him K?.Thus shared commitments that follow from a repre-sentation of the dialogue can ground acts at lowerlevels without grounding (or denying) acts at level4.
A full model of grounding at lower levels, how-ever, requires us to extend the framework to handlemisunderstandings.This paper presents just some first steps towards adynamic theory of grounding.
For instance, we havenot yet modelled the impact of questions and imper-atives on public commitments and grounding.
Wehave started to explore links between public com-mitments and other attitudes, such as beliefs, prefer-ences, and intentions (Asher and Lascarides, 2008),but this also remains a matter of ongoing research.ReferencesH.
Alshawi and R. Crouch.
Monotonic semantic in-terpretation.
In Proceedings of ACL, pages 32?39,1992.N.
Asher and A. Lascarides.
Logics of Conversation.CUP, 2003.N.
Asher and A. Lascarides.
Commitments, beliefsand intentions in dialogue.
In Proceedings of Lon-dial, 2008.H.
H. Clark.
Using Language.
CUP, 1996.B.
Grosz and C. Sidner.
Plans for discourse.
InJ.
Morgan P. R. Cohen andM.
Pollack, editors, In-tentions in Communication, pages 365?388.
MITPress, 1990.J.
R. Hobbs, M. Stickel, D. Appelt, and P. Martin.Interpretation as abduction.
Artificial Intelligence,63(1?2):69?142, 1993.D.
Lewis.
Convention: A Philosophical Study.
Har-vard University Press, 1969.L.
Pre?vot, N. Maudet, and P. Muller.
Conversationalgame-board and discourse structure.
In Proceed-ings of Constraints in Discourse, Ireland, 2006.H.
Sacks.
Lectures on Conversation.
Blackwells,1992.S.
Shieber.
An Introduction to Unification-based Ap-proaches to Grammar.
CSLI Publications, 1986.D.
Traum.
A Computational Theory of Groundingin Natural Language Conversation.
PhD thesis,University of Rochester, 1994.D.
Traum and J. Allen.
Discourse obligations in di-alogue processing.
In Proceedings of ACL, pages1?8, 1994.D.
Traum and E. Hinkelman.
Conversation acts intask-oriented spoken dialogue.
Computational In-telligence, 8(3):575?599, 1992.36
