BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 108?109,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsCBR-Tagger: a case-based reasoning approach to thegene/protein mention problemMariana Neves Monica ChagoyenBiocomputing Unit Biocomputing UnitCentro Nacional de Biotecnolog?a - CSIC Centro Nacional de Biotecnolog?a - CSICMadrid, 28049, Spain Madrid, 28049, Spainmlara@cnb.csic.es monica.chagoyen@cnb.csic.esJos?
M. Carazo Alberto Pascual-MontanoBiocomputing Unit Departamento de Arquitectura de ComputadoresCentro Nacional de Biotecnolog?a - CSIC Facultad de Ciencias F?sicas, UCMMadrid, 28049, Spain Madrid, 28040, Spaincarazo@cnb.csic.es pascual@fis.ucm.esAbstractThis work proposes a case-based classifier to tacklethe gene/protein mention problem in biomedical lit-erature.
The so called gene mention problem con-sists of the recognition of gene and protein entities inscientific texts.
A classification process aiming atdeciding if a term is a gene mention or not is carriedout for each word in the text.
It is based on the selec-tion of the best or most similar case in a base ofknown and unknown cases.
The approach wasevaluated on several datasets for different organismsand results show the suitability of this approach forthe gene mention problem.1 IntroductionThis paper proposes a new method to the genemention problem by using a case-based reasoningapproach that performs a binary classification(gene mention or not) for each word in a text.
In afirst step cases are stored in two bases (known andunknown cases), followed by a search in thesebases for the case most similar to the problem.
Theclassification decision is given by the class of thecase selected.
The system was developed usingJava and MySQL technologies and is available fordownload as part of the Moara project1.2 Proposed methodThe method here proposed identifies gene men-tions in a text by means of classifying each token1 http://biocomp.cnb.csic.es/~mlara/moara/index.htmlinto two possible classes: gene mention or not.
Thesystem consists of two main steps: the constructionof the case bases, and the testing phase, when thetest dataset is presented to the system to identifythe possible mentions.
The words extracted fromthe training documents were the tokens used toconstruct the two case bases, one for known casesand the other for unknown cases, as proposed forthe part-of-speech tagging problem in (Daelemans,Zavrel, Berck, & Gillis, 1996).The known cases are the ones used by the sys-tem to classify those words that are not new, i.e.those that have were present in the training dataset.The attributes used to represent a known case arethe word itself, the class of the word (if it is a genemention or not), and the class of the precedingword (if it is a gene mention or not).The system uses a second case base to decideabout words that are unknown to the system, i.e.those that are not present in the training set.
Theattributes of the unknown cases were the shape ofthe word, the class of the word (if it is a gene men-tion or not), and the class of the preceding word (ifit is a gene mention or not).
Note that instead ofsaving the word itself, a shape of the word is keptin order to allow the system to be able to classifyunknown words by means of looking for caseswith similar shape.
The shape of the word is givenby its transformation in a set of symbols accordingto the type of character found.In the construction of cases, each word repre-sents a single case, and in order to account forrepetitions, the frequency of the case is incre-mented to indicate the number of times that it ap-pears in the training dataset.
The training108documents are read twice, one in the forward (fromleft to right), and one in the backward (from rightto left) directions, in order to allow a more varietyof cases.
This is important as the classification ofa token may be influenced by its preceding andfollowing words.CBR-Tagger has also been trained with addi-tional corpora in order to better extract mentionsfrom different organisms.
These extra corpora arethe datasets for gene normalization of the BioCrea-tive task 1B (Hirschman, Colosimo, Morgan, &Yeh, 2005) for to yeast, mouse and fly and theBioCreative 2 Gene Normalization task (Morgan &Hirschman, 2007) for human.In the classification procedure, the text is token-ized and a sliding window is applied first in theforward and then in the backward direction.
Ineach case, the system keeps track of the class ofthe preceding token (false at the beginning), getsthe shape of the token and tries to find in the basesa case most similar to it.
The search procedure isdivided in two parts, for the known and unknowncases.
Priority is always given to the known casessince it saves the word exactly as they appeared inthe training documents and the classification maybe more precise than using the unknown cases.A token already classified as positive by theforward reading may be used for the backwardreading as preceding class and might help recog-nizing mentions composed by many tokens thatwould not have been totally recognized by one ofthe reading procedures only.
After the identifica-tion of the best case for each token, some post-processing procedures are executed to checkboundaries (for mentions composed of more thanone token) as well as abbreviations and corre-sponding full names.3 ResultsThe results obtained with the BioCreative 2 genemention task for the CBR-Tagger are shown inTable 1 along with the best result of the competi-tion.
Results are showed according to the datasetsused for the training of the CBR-tagger: BioCrea-tive 2 Gene Mention task (Wilbur, Smith, & Ta-nabe, 2007) corpus only (CbrBC2), and thecombination of it with the BioCreative task 1Bgene normalization corpus (Hirschman et al, 2005)for the yeast (CbrBC2y), mouse (CbrBC2m), fly(CbrBC2f) and the three of them (CbrBC2ymf).Taggers P R FMCbrBC2 77.8 75.9 76.9CbrBC2y 82.7 52.6 64.7CbrBC2m 83.1 47.1 60.1CbrBC2f 82.0 65.9 73.0CbrBC2ymf 82.5 39.7 53.6Best BC2 result 88.5 86.0 87.2Table 1: Results for the BC2 gene mention task.CBR-Tagger has also been applied to the genenormalization problem in conjunction with twoother available taggers: Abner2 and Banner3.
Table2 summarizes the best mix of taggers configurationfor each organism.
Detailed results may be foundat the author?s research page4.Organism Best configurationYeast Abner+CbrBC2Mouse Abner+CbrBC2mFly CbrBC2fHuman Banner+CbrBC2ymfTable 2: Best taggers for each organism.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been partially funded by the Spanishgrants BIO2007-67150-C03-02, S-Gen-0166/2006,TIN2005-5619.
APM acknowledges the support ofthe Spanish Ram?n y Cajal program.
The authorsacknowledge support from Integromics, S.L.ReferencesDaelemans, W., Zavrel, J., Berck, P., & Gillis, S.(1996).
MBT: A Memory-Based Part of Speech Tag-ger-Generator.
Paper presented at the Fourth Work-shop on Very Large Corpora, Copenhagen, Denmark.Hirschman, L., Colosimo, M., Morgan, A., & Yeh, A.(2005).
Overview of BioCreAtIvE task 1B: normal-ized gene lists.
BMC Bioinformatics, 6 Suppl 1, S11.Morgan, A., & Hirschman, L. (2007).
Overview of Bio-Creative II Gene Normalization.
Paper presented atthe Second BioCreative Challenge Evaluation Work-shop, Madrid-Spain.Wilbur, J., Smith, L., & Tanabe, L. (2007).
BioCreative2.
Gene Mention Task.
Paper presented at the SecondBioCreative Challenge Evaluation Workshop, Madrid,Spain.2 http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~bsettles/abner/3 http://banner.sourceforge.net/4 http://biocomp.cnb.csic.es/~mlara/mention.html109
