Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (COGALEX 2008), pages 32?38Manchester, August 2008Natural Language Searchingin Onomasiological DictionariesGerardo SierraInstituto de Ingenier?aUniversidad Nacional Aut?noma de M?xicogsierram@ii.unam.mxAbstractWhen consulting a dictionary, people canfind the meaning of a word via the defini-tion, which usually contains the relevantinformation to fulfil their requirement.Lexicographers produce dictionaries andtheir work consists in presenting informa-tion essential for grasping the meaning ofwords.
However, when people need tofind a word it is likely that they do notobtain the information they are lookingfor.
There is a gap between dictionarydefinitions and the information beingavailable in peoples?
mind.
This paper at-tempts to present the conceptualisationpeople engage in, in order to arrive at aword from its meaning.
The insights ofan experiment conducted show us the dif-ferences between the knowledge availa-ble in peoples?
minds and in dictionarydefinitions.1 IntroductionMany lexicographers recognise users need dic-tionaries to look for a word that has escaped theirmemory although they remember the concept.From a semantic point of view, Baldinger (1980)takes user needs into account and thus distin-guishes dictionaries that serve as aids in encod-ing from those that help with decoding.
The bestknown dictionaries of this type allow users tofind the meaning of a word they already know.Such dictionaries are semasiological: they asso-ciate meanings with expressions/words, i.e.within entries we move from word to meaning.?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.The second kind of dictionary helps those userswho have an idea to convey and want to find aword to designate it.
Such dictionaries are ono-masiological: they connect names to concepts, i.e.within entries we move from meaning or conceptto name or word.Sierra (2000) confirmed the well known ob-servation that the organisation of the world variesfrom author to author, by contrasting some rec-ognized onomasiological dictionaries, such asRoget's Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases(1852), Bernstein's Reverse Dictionary (1975),and WordNet (Miller et al, 2008).In order to build a system that maps naturallanguage descriptions of concepts to the termscorresponding to those concepts, Sierra andMcNaught (2000) outlined the design of anOnomasiological Search System.
They describedthe principles of the system, whereas the archi-tecture and its components are presented as partof the design.
This also includes an idealised userinterface, with a discussion of the organisation ofthe probable terms and additional informationthat can help the user to identify precisely theterm he is looking for.As cognitive issues for the design of such sys-tem, this paper attempts to present the conceptu-alisation people engage in, in order to arrive at aword from its meaning.
In this sense, it breaksthe traditional lexicographic assumption that oneshould utilise a semasiological approach to pro-vide formal representations to describe the mean-ing of a word.
In contrast, in the onomasiologicalapproach, the user can formulate a concept inseveral ways and use a variety of words in orderto find a particular word.Our starting point is to understand what con-ceptualisation is (section 2), and the process ofdesignation (section 3).
To validate our approachin practice, section 4 presents the results of anexperiment, which is compared with other stud-32ies on conceptual analysis.
Finally, the conclu-sions are stated.2 ConceptualisationThe concept is a mental representation of anobject which is formed in the mind of individualsthrough a process of abstraction.
We call thisprocess of constructing an internal representationof external things a conceptualisation.Conceptualisation is a mental activity ofgrouping the data of common propertiesaccording to external factors, and then conceptsare internalised and form part of eachindividual?s knowledge.2.1 PropertiesThe terms property, characteristic or featurehave been used for the knowledge necessary todescribe and classify a concept.
Theidentification of properties is crucial to conceptanalysis since it helps to define concepts andidentify their interrelationships.According to Sager (1990) some properties arenecessary and sufficient to distinguish a conceptfrom any other, and these properties reflect theessential characteristics of a concept.
Conversely,other properties are inessential, merely observ-able in an individual thing, so that they are acci-dental, may change with time and may not evenbe necessarily true in a scientific sense (Pet?fi,1982).The dichotomy of these two opposing types ofproperties has been discussed from a psycholin-guistic point of view.
Aitchison (1994) does notconsider that it is obvious that experts and ordi-nary people distinguish between essential andinessential characteristics.
Despite the fact thatexperts might be able to specify the true nature ofthings, they sometimes provide informationwhich is irrelevant to the mental lexicon.
Con-versely, ordinary people disagree and changetheir minds.As the comparative analysis in section 4shows, the essential characteristics are not neces-sarily present in the mental lexicon of a person;each one describes different properties.
Never-theless, even a description of the inessentialcharacteristics, given together, provides enoughinformation to identify the term (Wierzbicka,1985).2.2 Social conceptualisationPeople acquire knowledge about things on thebasis of cultural, geographical and social factors.The environment conditions the conceptualisa-tion of reality and the use of language.
In order tocommunicate effectively, people will try to uselanguage in a similar way to that of the collectiveview of the community, in agreement with thesocial norm.
In fact, because of the social norm,there is an idealised knowledge structure whichmakes it possible to use the same names for thesame things.
In the contrary case, when the des-ignation of a concept is outside that norm, peopleassume that the individual's knowledge is wrong.However, as we will see in the final analysis, wemust accept that an individual's knowledge can-not cover the whole knowledge of the commu-nity norm.2.3 Individual conceptualisationReality goes beyond the perception ofindividuals.
Our knowledge about reality hasincreased throughout human history.
No one ?human, computer or even the biggest library?possesses the whole knowledge about reality.The knowledge structure of things varies fromone person to the other, so that their descriptionof concepts will be different.
As Fugman (1993)states, since the number of properties is virtuallyunlimited, people concentrate on those character-istics which appear essential, according to theirpersonal or professional view.
As an example, hepoints out the different essential properties forthe concept ?benzene?
given by a physicist, abiologist, an engineer, a fire-fighter and a chem-ist.Even the same person can demonstrate differ-ent conceptualisations of simple things, such as"dog" or "apple", depending on the contextualsituation.
For example, a dog seen in differentdomains, such as a conference, a zoology lecture,a road or a house, may be described as canine,mammal, animal or pet.3 DesignationThe process of designation is the opposite of sig-nification.
Signification is the identification ofthe meaning of a word, and the result of finding ameaning is a definition.
Designation is the identi-fication of a term for a concept and the result is aword.To retrieve a term, one can use a terminologi-cal definition, which provides the informationnecessary to identify and differentiate a conceptwithin a system of concepts, so that it sometimescomprises encyclopaedic information, not usu-ally necessary in a lexicographic definition.333.1 PropertiesJust as a word may have many meanings(semasiological approach), a concept, which isdescribed by a set of properties, may bedesignated by more than one word(onomasiological approach).
Within theonomasiological approach, all the propertiestogether provide the necessary and sufficientinformation to identify the concept.
However,since the description of concepts in naturallanguage does not incorporate all knowledge orideas associated with each concept, it can happenthat the projection of a concept, i.e., the queryformulation of the user, will retrieve a set ofterms.
For example, the concept ?strong winds?,consisting of two properties, can retrieve, in thedomain of weather terminology, a variety ofterms, such as: ?gale?, ?tornado?, ?hurricane?,?typhoon?, etc.The concept a user has in mind when lookingfor a target word is expressed by a sentence.When a person hears this sentence, he translateseach word into his own language and easily iden-tifies the context.
A person may understand theexpression ?that which determines air pressure?and get a mental representation of ?that?
for?thing?
and then for ?instrument?
; or that thespeaker might have said ?measures?
instead of?determines?.
From the context, at the same time,he may differentiate whether the word ?air?
re-fers to the atmosphere or the air of a tyre.Equally, either the lack or change of any oneproperty may result in the identification of a dif-ferent concept.
For example, take the followingdefinition for ?barometer?:?
A device to measure air pressure.Each of the four keywords yields a property.Then, we can change one property at a time andget a different concept.
If we change?
?Device?
to ?unit?, the result is the con-cepts ?inch?
or ?millibar?.?
?Measure?
to ?provide?, the result is ?airscoop?.?
?Air?
to ?blood?, the result is ?sphyg-momanometer?.?
?Pressure?
to ?humidity?, the result isthe concept ?hygrometer?.4 Comparative analysis on conceptuali-zationIn order to verify some of the ideas presentedabove, an experiment was carried out with asmall group of twenty undergraduate students.Although a small group is unrepresentative forany generalisation to be made from a statisticalpoint of view, it has been sufficient for our pur-pose to demonstrate that the conceptualisationused by a random set of students is far from thedefinitions found in a dictionary.From two sets of five words, each student wasasked to take a set and write on a blank sheet ofpaper, similar to an onomasiological search, aconcept, a definition or the ideas suggested tothem by each word.
After interchanging thesheets, the other students participating in the ex-periment wrote the word or words designatingthe concepts identified or written on the blanksheets by the previous student.The sets of word given contained three generallanguage words and two terms.?
Set A: water, squirrel, bench, euthanasia,hurricane.?
Set B: lemon, bucket, clothing, monop-oly, barometer.The general words were chosen because theypermit us, as can be observed from the followingsections, to compare the results with the wordsanalysed by other researchers as well.We will next introduce our definitions bycomparing with four studies on conceptualisa-tion.4.1 PutnamPutnam (1975) proposes the representation of themeaning of a word as a finite sequence of at leastfour properties:The syntactic markers, which are the category-indicators used in a host of contexts to classifywords.The semantic markers, which are the mostcentral properties, form part of a widely usedclassification system and very may be affectedby any change in the knowledge about the thing.A description of the features of the stereotype,which is a conventional idea of what the objectlooks like or acts like or is, regardless whether itis true or not for all the objects.
For example,?yellow?
is a stereotype of ?gold?, even whengold is white by nature.A description of the extension, i.e., the set ofthings of which a term is true.
The extension isdetermined socially depending upon the nature ofthe particular things, rather than on the conceptof the individual speaker.The first three properties belong to the indi-vidual competence of speakers.
The extension34does not necessarily have to be known to everymember of a linguistic community.According to Pet?fi (1982), the semanticmarkers and the stereotype may be comparedwith Ullman?s concept of meaning.
From theperspective of the lexicographic definition, theyresemble genus and differentia, respectively.The description of the meaning of ?water?, asa particular natural kind, following these compo-nents, is given in table 1.SyntacticmarkersSemanticmarkersStereotype Extensionmass noun natural kind colourless H2Oconcrete liquid transparent (give or takeimpurities)   tastelessthirst-quenchingTable 1.
Properties for the natural kind ?wa-ter?In order to permit comparison of the defini-tions given in our experiment with his meaningof ?water?, the same four kinds of properties areused.
Our definitions, as shown in Table 2, in-clude the property ?fluid?, which easily can beclassified as a semantic marker.n.
Concept1 It?s a clear liquid that you get from a tap2 The colourless transparent liquid occurring onrivers3 A clear, neutral liquid that surrounds useverywhere4 Liquid, clear, drinkable ?
constituents arehydrogen and oxygen5 Liquid, clear, H2O6 Liquid form, scientific term H2O7 Liquid, freezes at 0?C8 Liquid, clear, boils at 100?C, freezes at 0?C9 Fluid, clear, tasteless, colourless10 Wash with it; drink it; used for dilution; H2O;found in springs, rivers, lakes, seas, oceansTable 2.
Conceptualisation of waterThe properties referring to the boiling andfreezing points of water, given in definitions 7and 8 in our experiment, may be considered aspart of the concept?s extension, since these prop-erties depend upon the nature of the water.Therefore, definitions one to nine include thesemantic marker ?liquid?, beside the particularfeatures of water, the stereotypes, and/or the de-scription by extension.
The definition ten, whichdoes not include the semantic marker, describeswater by extension.4.2 WiegandWiegand (1984) tries to identify the properties ofa definition by means of a scale of usability ob-tained statistically from a questionnaire to 100students.
He suggests 21 properties and asks thestudents to judge which of them describe alemon.
Each property is evaluated in three cate-gories according to the sum of ticks it received asgood, not so good and not good (Table 3).GOOD NOT SOGOODNOT GOODoval yellow tapers at both endsjuicy pulp thick rind oblongsour pulp citrus fruit thin rindyellow rind green rind used to make pectinfruit of thelemon treepulp containingapprox.
3.5-8% citricacidpulp rich in vitamin Cvariable protuberant tippulp rich in vitaminsmany uses in cookingused to make drinksused to make citric acidTable 3.
Properties of lemon using a scale ofusabilityEven although a test with ten students is not arepresentative sample from which one can gener-alise the scale of usability of the properties of aconcept, our experiment, as shows in table 4,allows us to challenge the values identified byWiegand.n.
Concept1 It?s a yellow fruit, like limes.
Citrus.
Used incooking for sharpness2 A yellow citrus fruit.
Sour tasting.
Often usedas an accompaniment to drinks3 a yellow citrus fruit with a bitter taste oftensliced and put in drinks4 It?s a citrus fruit, yellow, used with sugar onpancakes5 It?s a yellow citrus fruit.
Tastes bitter.
Ovalshaped6 A yellow sour fruit35n.
Concept7 A yellow citrus fruit8 Yellow, citrus, fruit9 Citrus fruit which is yellow10 Yellow citrus fruitTable 4.
Conceptualisation of lemonAs observed in table 5, there is no match be-tween the values for the seven properties ex-tracted by Wiegand and our own experimentfrom the definitions.Property Our ex-perimentWiegandyellow good not so goodcitrus good not so goodoval not good goodsour pulp not good goodmany uses in cook-ing and drinksnot good not goodvariable protuber-ant tipnot good not goodsimilar to limes not good ---Table 5.
Comparative analysis of the proper-ties of lemonThe reasons why these values differ are notobvious.
Probably this comparison means statis-tical methods from a group of students are notreliable to assess the properties of concepts.4.3 AytoIn order to define the meaning of words, Ayto(1983) adapts the componential analysis intro-duced by Pottier to semantic fields.
He also iden-tifies the semantic features that characterise vari-ous sorts of seats, but analyses these characteris-tics to compose an analytical definition.
Thedefinition of a word is determined by the seman-tic features that differentiate it from other wordsrather than by the sum of the individual charac-teristics.
The genus for each word in the semanticfield is ?seat?, as it presents the only commoncharacteristic for the rest of the set.The differentia is determined by comparingthe other characteristics and checking thosewhich are different.
The characteristics are: Forseveral people, not upholstered, for outdoors,functional.Then the definition for ?bench?
is, for exam-ple, ?a seat for two or more people that has aback, is typically used outdoors, and may befixed in position?.For a comparative analysis, it is possible tofind the semantic features of the definitions inour experiment (Table 6) and try to match themwith those given by Ayto.n.
Concept1 You can sit on it in the street or a park andthey are made of wood2 A long hard seat for several persons on whichthe players on a sport team sit3 An object for sitting on, usually long whichcan seat many people4 Sit on it (a few people can) in parks, made ofwood or iron5 Object used for sitting on.
Often found inpublic places such as parks and gardens.
Usedto seat 1 or more people at a time6 Something you seat on, is longer than a chair,usually made of wood7 Long platform for sitting on (fit many peopleon one)8 Apparatus for sitting on, designed for morethan one person, often found in parks9 A kind of seat found in parks, made of wood10 A type of chairTable 6.
Conceptualisation of benchFor this purpose, we should assume that:1.
For several people = longer than a chair.2.
Not upholstered = made of wood or iron,hard seat, platform.3.
Outdoors = street, park.4.
Functional = for a sports team.Table 7 presents the four semantic featuresused in our experiment to define ?bench?.Char.1Char.2Char.3Char.4Bench 1  + +Bench 2 + +  +Bench 3 +Bench 4 + + +Bench 5 +  +Bench 6 + +36Bench 7 + +Bench 8 +  +Bench 9  + +Bench 10Table 7.
Semantic features of benchIn the light of this contrastive analysis, it isclear that each semantic feature (for example?outdoor?)
can be expressed by a set of equiva-lent alternatives (for example, ?public places?,?parks?
).4.4 WierzbickaWierzbicka (1985) considers that a good lexico-graphic definition must be exhaustive, i.e., pro-viding all the properties of the concept.
Her viewof a definition differs from an encyclopaedicdefinition because the latter conveys knowledgeabout the object, while the lexicographic defini-tion does not include specialised knowledge,unless it is part of the concept.
Her demand forexhaustiveness is contrary to traditional semasi-ological lexicography, where, through a genusand the differentia, the definition provides theessential properties to identify a concept and dis-tinguish it from others.
However, when there is afull description, we may be sure that a user willretrieve the word in an onomasiological search.Wierzbicka uses five general properties toreach a definition of animals, e.g.
squirrels,namely: habitat, size, appearance, behaviour andrelation to people.
Table 8 presents an exampleof a description for each general property.GeneralpropertyDescriptionHabitat They live in places where there aremany trees.Size They are not too big for a person tobe able to hold one easily in bothhands.Appear-anceThey have a big bushy tail.Their fur is reddish or greyish.Behaviour They collect and eat small hardthings which grow on trees of cer-tain kinds.Relation topeoplePeople think of them as nice andamusing little creatures.Table 8.
Examples of full description of"squirrel"As observed in the definitions of our experi-ment (Table 9), the sum of properties in our defi-nitions agrees with the description of the fivekinds of properties of Wierzbicka, although shedoes not consider that squirrels build nests, asone of our definitions does.n.
Concept1 It?s a little rodent and can be red or grey, ithas a big bushy tail2 A small rodent living in trees with a longbushy tail3 A small rodent which lives in trees, collectsnuts and has a bushy tail4 Animal, grey/red, bushy tail, lives in trees,buries nuts5 Small animal, lives in trees, eats acorns, has abushy tail6 Animal, bushy tail, eats nuts, builds nests intrees called dreys7 Small funny animal with big, bushy tail, likesnuts, likes trees8 Animal that lives in trees and collects acorns,has a long tail9 A small-sized animal, habitat in trees10 Small grey mammal, relative to the rodent,found in both countryside and townTable 9 Conceptualisation of lemon5 ConclusionsThe distinction between semasiology and ono-masiology permits us to consider a new perspec-tive in lexicography.
In the semasiological ap-proach, the perspective is from the dictionary tothe user.
Dictionaries are a lexicographer?s prod-uct and definitions provide the necessary andsufficient elements in order to know the meaningof a word.Conversely, the onomasiological approach isfrom the user to the dictionary.
The user shouldprovide the concept, while the dictionary inter-prets that concept in order to find the most ap-propriate word.
The user can formulate the con-cept by several methods and may use a variety ofwords that in a certain context are similar.
Ac-cording to the user?s social, cultural and geo-graphical background, the description of the con-cept may differ in multiple properties.With regard to the preceding analysis, it isworthwhile to note that even the most completedescription of a concept can lack "essential"properties from the point of view of a user.
None37of the methods of componential analysis, eventhe most open ones, has been sufficient to foreseethe properties used by a small set of students.That gap should be filled with the aid of a goodonomasiological retrieval system.This does not mean that it is unlikely that weshall be able to design a complete and efficientonomasiological dictionary.
In our context, effi-ciency means that a dictionary has to satisfy therequirements of a particular kind of user, in acertain domain of a terminology with a specificbackground.
Therefore, the design of an onoma-siological dictionary must first foresee a multi-plicity of properties for each concept and sec-ondly the diversity of words that can be used toname them.
Then, the task consists in the accu-rate interpretation of the description of the con-cept and providing the word or probable wordsthe user is looking for.The core of such onomasiological dictionary,as reported by Sierra and McNaught (2000), isthe lexical knowledge base (LKB), which shouldprovide all the necessary knowledge to be ma-nipulated in order to enable onomasiologicalsearch.
In principle, it must represent what a per-son knows about both concepts and their corre-sponding terms.
Such LKB consists then of a setof terms, a set of definitions for each term, a setof keywords associated with the definitions and aset of lexical paradigms that group keywordswith the same meaning.
It not only includes thedatabases that constitute these sets of data, butthe interrelationships among all the sets.ReferencesAitchison, Jean.
1994.
Words in the mind: an intro-duction to the mental lexicon.
Blackwell Publish-ers, Oxford.Ayto, John R. 1983.
?On specifying meaning: seman-tic analysis and dictionary definitions?.
Lexicogra-phy: principles and practice.
R.R.K.
Hartmann(ed).
Academic Press, London: 89-98.Baldinger, Kurt.
1980.
Semantic theory: towards amodern semantics.
Basil Blackwell, Oxford.Bernstein, Theodore M. 1975.
Bernstein?s reversedictionary.
Routledge & Kegan Paul, London.Fugman, Robert.
1993.
Subject analysis and indexing:theoretical foundation and practical advice.
IN-DEKS Verlag, Frankfurt.Miller, George A., Richard Beckwith, Christiane Fell-baum, Derek Gross, and Katherine Miller.
1990.?Introduction to WordNet: An on-line lexical data-base?.
International Journal of Lexicography, 3(4):235-244.Pet?fi, J?nos S. 1982.
?Exploration in semantics:analysis and representation of concept systems?.The Cocta Conference.
F.W.
Riggs (ed).Putnam, Hilary.
1975.
Mind, language and reality:philosophical papers, Volume 2.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, New York.Roget, Peter.
1852.
Thesaurus of English Words andPhrases.
Longman, London.Sager, Juan C 1990.
A practical course in terminologyprocessing.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Sierra, Gerardo.
2000.
?The onomasiological dictio-nary: a gap in lexicography?.
Proceedings of theNinth EuralexInternational Congress.
Stuttgart.Sierra, Gerardo and John McNaught.
2000.
?Designof an Onomasiological Search System: a Concept-Oriented Tool for Terminology?.
Terminology6(1).Wiegand, Herbert E. 1984.
?On the structure and con-tents of a general theory of lexicography?.
Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on Lex-icography.
M. Niemeyer, T?bingen, 13-30.Wierzbicka, Anna 1985.
Lexicography and concep-tual analysis.
Karoma Publishers.38
