Degree of Abstraction in Referring Expression Generation and its Relationwith the Construction of the Contrast SetRaquel Herva?sFacultad de Informa?ticaUniversidad Complutense de MadridMadrid, Spainraquelhb@fdi.ucm.esPablo Gerva?sFacultad de Informa?ticaUniversidad Complutense de MadridMadrid, Spainpgervas@sip.ucm.esAbstractReferring Expression Generation (REG) is thetask that deals with references to entities ap-pearing in a spoken or written discourse.
Ifthese referents are organized in terms of a tax-onomy, there are two problems when estab-lishing a reference that would distinguish anintended referent from its possible distractors.The first one is the choice of the set of possibledistractrors or contrast set in the given situa-tion.
The second is to identify at what level ofthe taxonomy to phrase the reference so thatit unambiguously picks out only the intendedreferent, leaving all possible distractors in dif-ferent branches of the taxonomy.
We discussthe use of ontologies to deal with the REGtask, paying special attention to the choice ofthe the contrast set and to the use of the in-formation of the ontology to select the mostappropriate type to be used for the referent.1 IntroductionReferring Expression Generation (REG) is the taskthat deals with references of entities appearing in adiscourse.
In a context where possible referents areorganized in terms of a taxonomy (or subsumptionhierarchy) and may additionally be differentiated bytheir attributes, there are two possible ways of estab-lishing a reference that will distinguish an intendedreferent from its possible distractors.One is to identify at what level of the taxonomy tophrase the reference so that it unambiguously picksout only the intended referent, leaving all possibledistractors in different branches of the taxonomy.Another, applied once a particular level of referencehas been chosen, is to resort to mentioning addi-tional attributes of the intended referents that distin-guish it from any remaining distractors that share thesame branch of the taxonomy.While the second task has been addressed oftenin existing literature, the first one is often glossedover by requiring that the levels to be used for eachelement come specified in the input.
However, ifthis task is to be considered as a specific problemto be solved computationally, it opens up an addi-tional problem.
If the elements in the universe areclassified in a taxonomy with a single root and thereference was established at a high enough level inthe taxonomy, potentially everything in the universecould be a distractor for any other element.In this paper we will discuss the use of ontolo-gies to deal with the referring expression generationtask.
We will pay special attention to the choice ofthe contrast set and the use of ontology informationto select the most appropriate type to be used for thereferent.
This work has been centered in the gener-ation of definite noun phrases where the type of anelement and a set of its properties are given to dis-tinguish it from the other elements in focus.
We arealso supposing that the situations in which the ref-erence is produced are static, that is, the addressee?sperception of the world does not change during theprocess of reference generation.2 Related WorkThe appropriate use of referring expressions to com-pete with human-generated texts involves a certaindifficulty.
According to Reiter and Dale (2000), a re-ferring expression must communicate enough infor-161mation to identify univocally the intended referentwithin the context of the current discourse, but al-ways avoiding unnecessary or redundant modifiers.Reiter and Dale (1992) describe a fast algorithmfor generating referring expressions in the contextof a natural language generation system.
Their al-gorithm relies on the following set of assumptionsabout the underlying knowledge base that must beused: (1) every entity is characterized in terms ofa collection of attributes and their values, (2) everyentity has as one of its attributes a type, and (3) theknowledge base may organize some attribute valuesas a subsumption hierarchy.
Additionally, each ob-ject represented in the system should have an associ-ated basic level value, which corresponds to the con-cept which is preferred when referring to that object.These assumptions are satisfied if a descriptionlogic ontology is used for this purpose.
Entitieswould correspond to instances of concepts from theontology, the attribute corresponding to the typewould be the concept of which they are immediateinstances, and the taxonomical structure of the on-tology of concepts would provide the subsumptionhierarchy.
To construct a reference to a particularentity, the algorithm takes as input a symbol corre-sponding to the intended referent and a list of sym-bols corresponding to other entities in focus, knownas the contrast set.
The algorithm returns a list ofattribute-value pairs that correspond to the semanticcontent of the referring expression.3 Generating References Using OntologiesA previously developed ontology about wines hasbeen used to test the ideas presented in this work.This is a sample ontology implemented followinga version published by Brachman and colleagues(Brachman et al, 1991) and distributed along withthe CLASSIC knowledge representation system.We have focused on the taxonomy of wines pro-vided by the ontology.
Wines are divided in threemain categories: Red Wine, White Wine andRose Wine.
Inside these main categories there isa complex taxonomy of different kinds of wines.In addition, the ontology also contains several in-stances of the different concepts.
Each of theseinstances is described using features such as body,color, flavor, producer, and so on.The aim is to generate references for different in-stances of wines which are together in a discourse.The first step is to select the set of distractors or con-trast set for the specific referent.
Then, an algorithmfor deciding which is the best reference to use is ap-plied.
We have considered as the best reference pos-sible the use of the type that distinguishes the refer-ent from the distractors and at the same time is asgeneral as possible.
For example, if we are referringto an instance of Chardonnaywine (that is a whiteone) in a situation where the rest of wines are allred wines, the most suitable reference is ?the whitewine?
and not ?the chardonnay?.
On the contrary,the more specific (but unnecessary) reference mightlead the addressee to infer that this information issomehow relevant.
If only white wines (as directtype of the referent) are considered for the contrastset, only the more specific (and inappropriate) refer-ence may be generated.
Therefore, a wide enoughcontrast set must be considered in each case.Finally, if the type chosen is not enough to dis-tinguish the referent from the contrast set, attributeselection is applied to select a subset of the elementproperties that distinguish it.3.1 Composing the Contrast SetInformation about type is generally used to deter-mine which elements of the world must be consid-ered in the contrast set.
In this work, all the informa-tion about the world is located in an ontology.
Eachinstance of the world contained in it has a direct type(the most specific concept it belongs to) and a set ofundirect types that are all the types between the di-rect type and the root of the ontology.In the work developed we have used the wholeontology as contrast set.
We have considered it asthe most suitable option for most situations wherethe elements involved can belong to quite differenttypes.
As we will see later, this choice avoids theuse of references more specific than desired while atthe same time it allows the algorithm to choose thetype that is more suitable in a given situation.3.2 An Appropriate Type for the ReferentOur approach takes as initial distinguishing attributethe type of the elements appearing in the world.
Thiskind of solution is enough when the types defined foreach of the entities of the world are fixed and there is162not a close relation for different types.
For example,a solution that takes as type the strict one definedin an element would not consider a doberman and achihuahua as being both of them dogs.The algorithm we have implemented can be seenin Figure 1.
Here, r is the intended referent, C isthe contrast set, A is the list of attributes that the in-stances of the ontology hold, typeValue is the typethat would be assigned to the referent by the algo-rithm, and L is the list of attribute-value pairs re-turned if the type is not enough to rule out all thedistractors.
The rules-out function works as theone used in the Incremental algorithm, and the func-tion incremental-algorithm calls directly tothe original algorithm by Reiter and Dale.The function find-best-value-type is theone that delivers the most appropriate type for theintended referent r taking into account the informa-tion in the ontology.
We have considered as basiclevel value for the type the most specific of the com-mon types of the instances of the ontology.
Fromthis basic level type, the branch of concepts betweenit and the direct type of the intended referent r is vis-ited.
The type that will be used in the reference is themost general concept from this branch that discardsa bigger number of distractors.3.3 Attribute Selection for ReferenceCompletionIn some cases the type would not be enough to dis-tinguish a referent from the other elements of theworld.
This situation is produced when they belongto the same type.
In this situation it will be necessaryto use their properties to distinguish between them.The attribute selection carried out in the Incrementalalgorithm from Reiter and Dale has been applied tothese situations.4 Some ExamplesWe have tested the implemented algorithm over dif-ferent situations in which a set of wines is presented.For each of them, a distinguishing description is pro-vided using the appropriate type found using the on-tology and a set of attributes when they were re-quired.
The instances of the world we have con-sidered are shown in Table 1 (the properties of thewines that have not been used by the algorithm areFigure 1: The Algorithmnot shown).
The references generated for each ofthe referents are (numbers correspond to examplesin the table):1.
?The Riesling?.
There is another white winebut not a Dry Riesling one, so the mostgeneral type discarding all the distractors isRiesling.2.
?The moderate Cabernet Sauvignon?.
Herethe type is not enough to distinguish thisreferent, so its attributes are used.
Theproperty that distinguish it from the otherCabernet Sauvignon is the flavor.3.
?The strong Cabernet Sauvignon?.
As inthe previous case the strong flavor is usedto distinguish the wine from the otherCabernet Sauvignon.4.
?The Rose Wine?.
In this case there are nomore rose wines, so this generic type is enoughto distinguish the referent.163Table 1: Examples5 Conclusions and Future WorkThe main advantage of this approach is that the al-gorithm always finds the most suitable value for thetype, taking into account the other entities of theworld.
Since this solution is completely generic anddomain-independent, the algorithm would work inthe same way with more general ontologies.
Forexample, if the considered ontology contains infor-mation not only about wines, but also about otherkinds of drinks, the values to be used as types ofthe referents would also be chosen in the same way.In this situation the referent could be the only wineamong other drinks, and the reference generated forit would be the most appropriate one: ?the wine?.In the Incremental algorithm, Reiter and Dale donot address the question of how the contrast set isconstructed, stating that the contrast set is one of theinputs of their algorithm.
In our work, we have cho-sen as contrast set al the instances that can be foundin the ontology.
This solution allows the algorithmto work with enough information to choose exactlyat which level of the ontology the discourse is beingdisplayed (more general or more specific).
With thisinformation the generated references are adapted tothe level of specificity required in each case.The Incremental algorithm also states that the ba-sic level value is obtained from the knowledge baseor the user model.
In this paper we have imple-mented a dynamic way to obtain this value that onlydepends on the knowledge available about the world.However, the use of some kind of user model repre-senting the expertise level of the addressee in a spe-cific domain could be explored in the future.AcknowledgmentsThis research is funded by the Spanish Ministryof Education and Science (TIN2006-14433-C02-01project) and the UCM and the Direccio?n General deUniversidades e Investigacio?n of the CAM (CCG07-UCM/TIC-2803).ReferencesBrachman.
Ronald J. and McGuiness, Deborah L. andPatel-Schneider, Peter F. and Resnick, Lori A.
1991.Living with CLASSIC: when and how to use a KL-ONE-like language.
Principles in Semantic Net-works: Explorations in the Representation of Knowl-edge, pages 401?456.
Morgan Kaufmann, California.Reiter, Ehud and Dale, Robert.
1992.
A fast algorithmfor the generation of referring expressions.
Proc.
ofthe 14th conference on Computational Linguistics, pp.232-238.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Reiter, Ehud and Dale, Robert.
2000.
Building NaturalLanguage Generation Systems.
Cambridge UniversityPress.164
