Proceedings of the ACL-08: HLT Workshop on Mobile Language Processing, pages 25?26,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsAssistive Mobile Communication SupportSonya Nikolova and Xiaojuan MaPrinceton University, Princeton, NJ 08540, USA{nikolova, xm}@cs.princeton.eduAbstractThis paper reflects on our work in providingcommunication support for people withspeech and language disabilities.
We discussthe role of mobile technologies in assistivesystems and share ongoing research efforts.1 IntroductionDesigning assistive communication technologiesfor people with speech and language disabilitiesinvolves a number of challenges including address-ing stigma and portability concerns.
Mobile de-vices have the potential to resolve some of theseissues if disadvantages such as small screen sizeand difficult interaction techniques are tackled.Our experience shows that a mobile device anda desktop computer can serve in synergy as an ef-fective communication support for people withaphasia, a disability that impairs the language mo-dalities.
Our work has also showed that assistingthe user effectively is interlaced with the ability toprovide flexible and personalizable support.2 Mobile Support for CommunicationBeing able to communicate is essential to leading aself-sufficient and satisfying life.
Individuals whosuffer from aphasia experience many challenges,including social isolation (Kauhanen et al, 2000).Technology has the potential to help such indi-viduals, but to enhance the users?
daily communi-cation effectively, tools need to be portable andusable outside of the home.Our research focuses on designing multimodalcommunication systems for people with aphasia.We are interested in small and light-weight devicesbecause their use is inconspicuous in public whichaddresses stigma issues prevalent among userswith disabilities.
Mobile devices have obviousshortcomings such as limited screen size and inter-action techniques, and relatively small memory.However, if they assume the role of an extensioninstead of a replacement of traditional desktop andlaptop assistive systems, we can easily take advan-tage of their positive characteristics?portabilitybeing the most important one.
In addition, mobiledevices which have embedded camera, microphone,and speaker are convenient for taking photos, re-cording videos and sounds which can enhancecommunication.
To compensate for the loss of lan-guage, visual and audio representations are essen-tial support for information comprehension andspeech production.There has been consistently increasing interest inusing mobile platforms for applications that supportcommunication.
For example, Davies et al (2004)extensively studied one individual with aphasia whoincorporated a personal digital assistant (PDA) intohis daily communication strategies and demonstratedthe device?s potential.
Moffatt et al (2004) imple-mented an electronic daily planner enhanced withimages and sounds, running on a PDA.
Even thoughit received positive feedback when evaluated withaphasic individuals, the prevalently elderly subjectshad difficulty in composing and editing appointmentsdirectly on the PDA.Considering the advantages and disadvantagesof a personal digital assistant, we combined a PDAand a desktop computer into a hybrid communica-tion system for people with aphasia.3 Hybrid Communication SystemThe desktop component of the hybrid communica-tion system is used to compose and edit sentencesand the PDA is used as a portable extension forconversations outside of home.
A multimodal ap-proach is used to compensate for the considerablevariability in language impairments among indi-viduals with aphasia.
In the system?s vocabulary,nouns are represented by text, sound and an imagewhile verbs are represented by text, sound and ananimation depicting the action.
Users enjoyed andwere able to work with the system, and they incor-porated multiple photographs taken with the PDAinto their communication (Boyd-Graber et al,2006).
The evaluation also revealed certain weak-nesses and confirmed the need for flexibility and25customization in assistive technology outlined inprevious work (Moffatt et al, 2004 and van deSandt-Koenderman et al, 2005).4 Work-in-ProgressWe are currently redesigning the system and im-proving its flexibility by introducing some adaptiveand adaptable features.4.1 Web-based SystemThe fact that most mobile devices nowadays canaccess and browse the Internet relatively easilyencourages us to explore a web-based system.
Byhaving the desktop and mobile components com-municate online, we circumvent the time and loca-tion constraints of traditional synchronizationmethods.
Even though data can be transferred eas-ily between the two components of our system, theneed for physical contact is a drawback if multipleparties are involved in the information sharing (forexample, when the aphasia patient, her speech-language pathologist and her caregiver need to ac-cess and modify information on different desktopsat different locations).A web-based system will also eliminate the de-pendence on the mobile device?s limited storage,which dictates the quantity and quality of the mul-timedia data available to the user.
The user willhave access to more pictures, videos, and audioclips stored on the server.
A web-based system willalso allow for sharing of resources online amongusers within the aphasic community which couldforge new social connections.4.2 Building an Adaptable VocabularyAn essential component of a communication sys-tem that attempts to be flexible, extensible, andexpressive is the vocabulary that it offers to theusers.
Vocabulary depth, breadth, organization andmanagement are major challenges in existing assis-tive technologies including our own.We are addressing these problems by designinga vocabulary application enhanced with adaptiveand adaptable features.
The goal is to enable apha-sic users to build phrases quickly by browsingthrough a smart network of words represented by atriplet of image, sound and text.
The links betweenwords are based on the individual?s vocabularyprofile (frequently used words, personal interestsand communication context) as well as word simi-larity and evocation measures derived from Word-Net (Miller, 1990).
The system?s adaptability willlet the user add and remove words, group thewords in a personalized manner by creating theirown categories (such as a ?Favorites?
folder) andenhance them with images and sounds.
The adap-tive part will study the usage frequency of eachword, make context relevant suggestions, andadapt the vocabulary organization automatically.Thus, frequently used words and words relevant tothe user?s interests or the context of the communi-cation will surface faster.
Naturally, the challengeis balancing the adaptive and adaptable aspects ofthe system to best benefit the user.5 ConclusionEven though small screen size and challenging in-teraction techniques make most existing mobiledevices unusable for persons with aphasia, theyhold a significant potential to assist daily commu-nication effectively.
We envision that a web-basedcommunication system with a mobile and a desk-top component will be an effective support becauseit will eliminate constraints related to data transferand information updating.
We are also working oncreating adaptive and adaptable techniques thatallow the vocabulary used for communication to betailored to the user?s needs.
We are interested indiscussing effective design strategies and interac-tion technique for language application for mobiledevices as well as methods to make them serve asbetter communication support.ReferencesBoyd-Graber, J., Nikolova, S., Moffatt, K., Kin, K., Lee, J.,Mackey, L., Tremaine, M. and Klawe, M. 2006.
Participa-tory design with proxies: developing a desktop-PDA sys-tem to support people with aphasia.
In Proceedings CHI?06, 151?160.Davies, R., Marcella, S., McGrenere, J. and Purves, B.
2004.The ethnographically informed participatory design of aPDA application to support communication.
In Proceed-ings of ASSETS ?04, 153?160.Kauhanen, M.L., Korpelainen, J. T., Hiltunen, P., M?
?tt?, R.,Mononen, H., Brusin, E., et al 2000.
Aphasia, depression,and non-verbal cognitive impairment in ischaemic stroke.Cerebrovascular Diseases, 10(6): 455?461.Miller, G. A.
1990.
Nouns in WordNet: A lexical inheritancesystem.
International Journal of Lexicography, 3(4): 245?264.Moffatt, K., McGrenere, J., Purves, B., and Klawe, M. 2004.The participatory design of a sound and image enhanceddaily planner for people with aphasia.
In Proceedings ofCHI ?04, 407?414.van de Sandt-Koenderman, M., Wiegers, J., and Hardy, P.2005.
A computerized communication aid for people withaphasia.
Disability and Rehabilitation, 27: 529?533.26
