Proceedings of the 9th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 37?45,Columbus, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsReactive Redundancy and Listener Comprehension in Direction-GivingRachel E. Baker Alastair J. Gill, Justine CassellDepartment of Linguistics Center for Technology and Social BehaviorNorthwestern University Northwestern UniversityEvanston, IL 60208 Evanston, IL 60208r-baker2@northwestern.edu {alastair,justine}@northwestern.eduAbstractWe explore the role of redundancy, both inanticipation of and in response to listenerconfusion, in task-oriented dialogue.
Wefind that direction-givers provide redundantutterances in response to both verbal andnon-verbal signals of listener confusion.We also examine the effects of prior ac-quaintance and visibility upon redundancy.As expected, givers use more redundant ut-terances overall, and more redundant utter-ances in response to listener questions,when communicating with strangers.
Wediscuss our findings in relation to theoriesof redundancy, the balance of speaker andlistener effort, and potential applications.1 IntroductionOur everyday conversations represent a carefullynegotiated balance between the perceived needs ofthe speaker and the listener.
These opposing forcesaffect every aspect of language from phonetics topragmatics.
A careful balance between these twoforces allows speakers to produce language that isboth efficient and effective at communicating amessage (Lindblom, 1990; Horn, 1993).
Of course,the same balance is not appropriate for every situa-tion.
When accuracy is critical to the message, orwhen the speaker perceives the listener to havedifficulty understanding, the speaker is more likelyto prioritize clarity over efficiency, resulting inmore explicit communication.
In contrast, duringcasual conversation or when speed is a factor, thespeaker may choose a more reduced, efficient,communication style (Lindblom, 1990; Horton andKeysar, 1996).
A number of scholars have pointedout that speakers seem to use the informationavailable to themselves rather than that available tothe listener to guide certain linguistic decisions,such as clarity of pronunciation and choice of syn-tactic structure (Bard et al, 2000; Branigan et al,2003).
However, these studies examine utteranceform, while our study examines content, which ismore influenced by audience design (Branigan etal., 2003).
In every utterance, a speaker either re-duces the likelihood of listener misunderstandingby being more explicit, or reduces their own effortby providing a minimal amount of information.Regardless of whether speakers pro-actively moni-tor the information needs of listeners, they do needto respond when listeners say or do something toindicate confusion.
Developing a better under-standing of the factors that affect how and whenspeakers respond to signs of listener confusion isimportant at both theoretical and applied levels:first, it can better explain the variation in discoursestrategies used in different communicative situa-tions; second, it can help in the design of dialoguesystems (Kopp et al, 2008; Theune et al, 2007).In this study, we examine what types of listenerbehavior increase the likelihood that a speaker willproduce a redundant utterance.
We also examinehow communicative context affects the amountredundancy a speaker produces overall (Walker,1992, 1996) and a speaker?s use of redundancy inresponse to listener confusion.
In contrast to pre-vious work, we study reactive redundancy, or re-dundancy produced in response to signs of listenerconfusion.
We investigate two factors that mayinfluence a speaker?s tendency to produce redun-dant utterances and to respond to listener confusionwith redundancy: the relationship between the in-terlocutors and their visual contact.In the following section, we review relevant li-terature and present our hypotheses; we then de-scribe the direction-giving experiment which weused to examine redundancy in task-oriented di-alogue, and present our results; we discuss our re-sults in light of the literature and conclude bynoting potential applications and future work.372 Related Work and Predictions2.1 RedundancyGrice?s (1975) second Maxim of Quantity: ?Do notmake your contribution more informative than isrequired?
has led to the general impression thatredundancy (providing discourse-old information)is avoided in language (Stalnaker, 1978), with thismirrored by work in natural language generation(Dalianis, 1999).
However, Walker (1992, 1996)points out that such conclusions relating to redun-dancy are often based on flawed assumptions.
Forexample, they assume that agents have unlimitedworking memory and the ability to automaticallygenerate all the inferences entailed by every utter-ance, that utterance production should be mini-mized, and that assertions by Agent A are acceptedby default by Agent B (Walker, 1996: 183).In fact, redundancy can serve many desirablepurposes in communication.
Redundancy has beenshown to increase text cohesion and readability(Horning, 1991) as well as provide evidence ofunderstanding and grounding, make a propositionsalient, and make inferences explicit (Walker,1996).
A computer simulation of a cooperative taskdialogue between two agents suggested that the useof certain types of redundant utterances improvedthe performance of the pair (Walker, 1996).Fussell and Krauss (1989a) point out that thereare two methods that speakers can use to tailortheir message for the listener.
The first method in-volves predicting what information it is necessaryto communicate, using knowledge of the listener?sinterests and background.
The second method in-volves modifying the message in response to lis-tener feedback.
Walker?s model only captures theuse of redundancy in the service of the first me-thod.
We will refer to this type of redundancy asproactive redundancy, whereby a speaker providesredundant information without waiting for the lis-tener to express a need for it.
The advantages ofproviding redundant information proactively in-clude being able to integrate the redundant infor-mation with the new information, and avoidingconflict by removing the necessity for the listenerto express a lack of understanding (Brown and Le-vinson, 1987).We hypothesize that speakers also use redun-dancy reactively, after the listener signals a lack ofunderstanding, either verbally or non-verbally.This is redundancy in service of Fussell andKrauss?
second method of message-tailoring.
Theadvantages of providing redundant informationreactively include increasing the efficiency of theexchange by only providing redundant informationthat the listener communicates a need for, and re-ducing the burden on the speaker of having to de-cide when to include redundant information.One important distinction between proactiveand reactive redundancy is the grounding status ofthe redundant information.
Reactive redundancy islikely to provide information that has not been ac-cepted by the listener, and is therefore not part ofthe common ground (Clark and Schaeffer, 1989),even though it is discourse-old.
In contrast, proac-tive redundancy is likely to provide informationfrom the interlocutors?
common ground.
Indeed,Walker (1996) describes Attitude redundant utter-ances as providing evidence of grounding.
Walk-er?s other types of proactive redundancy(Consequence and Attention) make inferencesbased on grounded utterances explicit and makeelements of the common ground salient again.Reactive redundancy is one type of repair, likeexpansions and replacements, which can be used inresponse to non-understanding or misunderstand-ing (Hirst et al, 1994).
The type of miscommuni-cation may influence a speaker?s choice of repairstrategy, with reactive redundancy being an appro-priate response to mishearing or misremembering.However, producing redundant information,even when the listener signals a need for it, incursa cost.
Including redundant information increasesthe length of the dialogue and the speaker?s effort,and decreases the amount of new information pro-vided within a certain length of time.
In these casesthe speaker must decide how much redundant in-formation to provide and when to provide it.2.2 Signals of ConfusionListeners can express a need for information to berepeated or restated in a number of ways, both ver-bally and non-verbally.
Brinton et al (1988) usedquestions and statements of confusion (?I didn?tunderstand?)
as signs of communication break-downs.
Morrow et al (1993) describe inaccurateand partial repetitions of instructions as elementsof miscommunication.
This prior work leads us toexamine questions, utterances signaling non-understanding (e.g.
?I don?t remember what?s38next?
), incorrect repetitions (e.g.
?take the thirdright?
after the direction-giver said ?take thesecond right?)
and abandoned utterances (e.g.
?Then I?ll turn??)
as possible signs of listenerconfusion.
We predict redundancy after suchstatements because they all indicate that a piece ofinformation has not been understood.We also examine eye-gaze as a non-verbalmarker of listener comprehension.
Goodwin (1981)described gaze towards the speaker as a sign oflistener attention.
However, Nakano et al (2003)found that speakers seemed to interpret a listenergazing at them rather than at a map as a sign oflistener misunderstanding.
Therefore, shifting eye-gaze away from the speaker can signal that a lis-tener is losing attention, perhaps due to confusion,while shifting gaze towards the speaker can signalmisunderstanding.
In this study there is no map,and listeners who can see the speaker spend mostof the conversation gazing at the speaker.
Still, dueto the opposing findings in the literature, we ana-lyze eye-gaze shifts both towards and away fromthe speaker as potential signs of listener confusion.2.3 Relationship and CommunicationSpeakers are more explicit when communicatingwith strangers or people with whom they share lesscommon ground.
This explicitness can take theform of highly informative self-introductions onthe phone (Hornstein, 1985), longer descriptions ofabstract figures (Fussell and Krauss, 1989b), andexplicit references to utterance topics (Svedsen andEvjemo, 2003).
These studies indicate that speak-ers attempt to make up for the small amount ofcommon ground they share with strangers by in-cluding more information in the discourse itself.Another difference between friends and non-friends is that acquaintances tend to be more for-mal, more concerned with self presentation, lessnegative, and less likely to disagree than friends(Schlenker, 1984; Tickle-Degnen and Rosenthal,1990; Planalp and Benson, 1992).
Therefore, weexpect that in an initial interaction, a speaker willtry to appear competent and avoid conflict.As noted above, speakers talking to strangersare more explicit, leading us to predict more re-dundancy overall.
They are also more likely to tryto impress their interlocutor and avoid conflict,leading to more reactive redundancy in response toconfusion when the pair are strangers.2.4 Visibility and CommunicationVisibility also has a number of effects on commu-nication.
One of the most basic is that when inter-locutors cannot see each other they cannot use non-verbal signals to communicate, so they must relyon verbal communication.
For example, the use ofeye-gaze as a sign of listener attention (Argyle andCook, 1976; Goodwin, 1981) is only possiblewhen interlocutors can see each other.
When theycannot see each other, they must indicate attentionverbally or do without this information.Visibility affects both the form and the out-comes of a conversation.
When interlocutors can-not see each other, conversations are longer andcontain more, shorter, utterances than when theycan (Nakano et al, 2003).
Interlocutors in an in-vestment game who could not see each other alsodid not establish trust to the same extent as thosewho met face-to-face (Bos et al, 2002).Because speakers who cannot see each otherhave fewer channels of communication available tothem, their interaction can be more difficult than aface-to-face interaction.
We predict that this willlead them to use more redundancy and more reac-tive redundancy in an effort to be clear.2.5 HypothesesIn order to study how responsive speakers are tosigns of listener confusion, we must first determinewhat signs speakers respond to.
In this study weexamine a number of verbal and non-verbal signsspeakers may use to gauge listener confusion.
Inparticular, we expect that speakers will provideredundancy in response to both verbal signs likequestions, statements of non-understanding, incor-rect statements, and abandoned utterances, andnon-verbal signs like eye-gaze changes.
We expectthat speakers will strike a different balance be-tween efficiency (minimizing speaker effort) andclarity (minimizing listener effort) depending onthe relationship between the speaker and listener,and the physical context of the interaction.
We ex-pect speakers to use redundancy strategies focusedon minimizing speaker effort when addressingfriends and people they can see.
Such strategiesinvolve less redundancy (and therefore less speak-ing), and less reactive redundancy (requiring lesslistener monitoring).
Conversely, we expect to findredundancy strategies maximizing clarity when39speakers address strangers and people they cannotsee.
Such strategies involve more redundancyoverall (providing the listener with more informa-tion in general) as well as more reactive redundan-cy (which provides the listener with the specificinformation they may require).Hypothesis 1 - Redundancy and Non-Understanding(a) Verbal cues - Direction-givers will provideredundancy when the receiver verbally expresses alack of understanding by asking a question, aban-doning an utterance, making an incorrect statementor explicitly expressing non-understanding.
(b) Non-verbal cues - Givers will provide redun-dancy when the receiver non-verbally expresses alack of understanding by shifting eye-gaze.Hypothesis 2 - Redundancy and RelationshipGivers will prioritize clarity over efficiency in theirredundancy use when speaking to strangers, pro-viding (a) more redundancy and (b) more reactiveredundancy than when speaking to friends.Hypothesis 3 - Redundancy and Visual ContactGivers will prioritize clarity over efficiency in theirredundancy use when they cannot see their partner,providing (a) more redundancy and (b) more reac-tive redundancy than when they can see them.3 Methods3.1 ParticipantsTwenty-four university students participated, re-sulting in twelve dyads.
All were paid $10 for theirparticipation and received $5 gift certificates ifthey successfully completed the task.
In each dyadthe direction-giver was familiar with the buildingin which the experiment took place, and the direc-tion-receiver was unfamiliar with it.
Half the dyadswere pairs of friends and half were strangers.3.2 ProcedureThe task consisted of three consecutive direction-giving sessions, as described in Cassell et al(2007).
At the start of each session, the experimen-ter led the direction-giver to a point in the building,and back to the experiment room.
Half of the dyadssat facing each other during the direction-giving(the Vision condition) and half sat back-to-backwith a screen between them (the No-vision condi-tion).
The direction-giver then explained the routeto the direction-receiver.
There were no time limitsor restrictions on what could be said, but the dyadscould not use maps or props.
When the dyad de-cided that direction-giving was complete, they sig-naled the experimenter, who the receiver led to thegoal, following the directions.The direction-giving sessions were videotaped.Participants?
speech was transcribed and coded forpossible redundancy triggers and redundant utter-ances using the coding scheme described below.The time-aligned codings for the giver and receiverwere aligned with each other using scripts that cal-culated which of the receiver?s utterances or ac-tions directly preceded which of the giver?sutterances.
The scripts classify a receiver?s utter-ance or action as ?preceding?
a giver?s utterance ifits start precedes the start of the giver?s utteranceand its end is not more than two seconds before thestart of the giver?s utterance.
The two-second limitwas used to avoid positing connections between agiver?s utterance and receiver utterances that camelong before it.3.3 Data CodingEach dialogue was divided into clauses, defined asunits that include a subject and predicate and ex-press a proposition.
Each clause was coded using amodified version of DAMSL (Core and Allen,1997).
Direction-givers?
and receivers?
speech wascoded differently because we only studied redun-dancy produced by the giver.
We coded the receiv-er?s speech for signs of confusion.
We describe thelabels we used in more detail below.Each direction-giver?s clauses were coded forStatements and Info-requests.
The Info-request tagmarks questions and other requests for informa-tion.
In a Statement, a speaker makes a claim aboutthe world.
The class of Statements was brokendown into Non-redundant, in which the speaker istrying to change or add to the hearer?s beliefs, andRedundant, which contain only information thathas already been stated or entailed.Each direction-receiver?s clauses were codedfor Statements, Info-requests, Signal non-understandings (S.N.U.
), and Abandoned utter-ances.
The receiver?s Statements were classified aseither Correct or Incorrect.
If an utterance explicit-ly expressed non-understanding of an earlier utter-ance it was coded as Signal non-understanding.This label was only used for direct statements ofnon-understanding, such as ?I didn?t follow that,?40and not for signals of non-understanding coveredby other labels such as Info-requests and IncorrectStatements.
Utterances that were abandoned (thespeaker stops the utterance and it provides no con-tent to the dialogue) were coded as Abandoned.Receiver utterances that were not coded as Info-requests, Incorrect Statements, Signal-non-understandings, or Abandoned, were coded as No-trigger.
No-trigger utterances included correctstatements and statements about task management.4 ResultsWe found that a large proportion of giver utter-ances were redundant, ranging from 17% to 38%with a mean of 25%.
Examples of redundancyfrom our recordings are listed in the Appendix.We first analyzed the data using a hierarchicalloglinear analysis with the variables: visual condi-tion (Vision, No-vision), relationship (Friends,Strangers), receiver-utterance (Info-request, Incor-rect statement, Signal non-understanding, Aban-doned, No-trigger), and giver-utterance(Redundant, Non-redundant).
The overall model issignificant (?2(39,5294)=13254.157,p<.001), justify-ing chi-square comparisons of individual factorswithin the model.
We report tests of partial associ-ation and chi-square tests to indicate where signifi-cant differences lie between groups.4.1 Redundancy and Non-UnderstandingVerbal Signals of Non-UnderstandingWe tested part (a) of Hypothesis 1 by running atest of partial associations (adjusted for all effectsin the model) and an unpartialled chi-square (ig-noring variables not included in the effect beingtested).
These showed a significant association be-tween receiver-utterance and giver-utterance type(Partial ?2(4,5294)=117.7, p<.001;?2(4,5294)=121.2,p<.001).Chi-square tests comparing giver-utterances fol-lowing predicted redundancy triggers to giver-utterances after No-trigger receiver utterances, in-dicate that Info-requests, Incorrect statements andAbandoned utterances all significantly increase thelikelihood that the giver will produce a redundantutterance (?2(1,4907)=57.3,p<.001; ?2(1,4562)=28.4,p<.001; ?2(1,4651)=49.1,p<.001, respectively).
Expli-cit Signal-non-understandings do not have signifi-cant effects on the likelihood of a redundant-utterance (?2(1,4539)=.3,p=.619).
Figure 1 shows thepercentages of giver utterances that were redundantfollowing various receiver dialogue acts.Non-Verbal Signals of Non-UnderstandingWe tested part (b) of Hypothesis 1 with a separatehierarchical loglinear analysis examining only thedyads in the Vision condition for the effects of:relationship, receiver-utterance, giver-utterance,and receiver-gaze (Gaze-to, Gaze-away, and No-gaze-change).
The first- and second-order effectsare significant (?2(59,2815)=9582.4, p<.001).A test of partial associations and a chi-squaretest indicate a significant association between giv-er-utterance and receiver-gaze (Partial ?2(2,2815)=22.7, p<.001; ?2(2,2815)=24.7,p<.001).
Chi-squaretests comparing receiver gaze changes to non-changes show that redundant utterances are signifi-cantly more likely after a gaze change toward thegiver (?2(1,2433)=21.5,p<.001) and after a gazechange away from the giver (?2(1,2475)=6.5,p<.05)than after no gaze change.
A chi-square test com-paring gaze change toward the giver to gazechange away from the giver shows that the differ-ence between them is not significant (?2(1,722)=2.7,p=.098).
These effects are shown in Figure 2.52.2% 48.7% 41.0%27.3% 24.0%0%10%20%30%40%50%60%RedundantGIver  Utterances(%) ***Figure 1.
Percent of redundant giver utterances fol-lowing various receiver dialogue acts.39.7%33.8%27.4%0%5%10%15%20%25%30%35%40%45%Towards Away No changeRedundantGiver  Utterances(%)Gaze* *Figure 2.
Percent of redundant giver utterances fol-lowing receiver eye-gaze changes toward and awayfrom the giver, and following no gaze change414.2 Redundancy and RelationshipPart (a) of Hypothesis 2 was confirmed by the sig-nificant association between relationship and giv-er-utterance (Partial ?2(1,5294)=13.3, p<.001;?2(1,5294)=6, p<.05) in our original analysis.
A largerpercentage of giver utterances are redundant in theStrangers condition (27.8%) than in the Friendscondition (24.8%).To examine part (b) of Hypothesis 2 we ran ahierarchical loglinear analysis after collapsing allreceiver-utterances into question/non-question cat-egories.
This reveals a significant partial associa-tion among giver-utterance, receiver-utterance, andrelationship (Partial ?2(1,5294)=7.5, p<.01).
A chi-square test comparing utterances after questions inthe Friends and Strangers conditions shows thatredundant utterances are significantly more likelyafter questions in the Strangers condition than theFriends condition (?2(1,412)= 14.6, p<.0005), asshown in Figure 3.Three-way interactions among giver-utterance,receiver-utterance and relationship are not signifi-cant in any of the other analyses.4.3 Redundancy and Visual ContactThere is a trend-level association between visualcondition and giver-utterance type (Partial ?2(1,5294)=4.6,p<.05; ?2(1,5294)=3.3,p=.071).
Contrary to Hy-pothesis 3, a larger percentage of utterances areredundant in the Vision condition (27.7%) than inthe No-vision condition (25.5%).
No significantassociation was found among giver-utterance, re-ceiver-utterance, and visual condition, even whencollapsed into question/non-question categories.5 DiscussionThis study set out to discover what verbal and non-verbal behaviors increase the likelihood of redun-dant utterances in direction-givers?
speech.
Wealso examined whether the interlocutors?
relation-ship or visual contact influence whether speakersprovide redundant utterances in anticipation of andin response to listener confusion.
We found thatgivers used a large proportion of redundant utter-ances, (around 25% of utterances).
Walker (1996)found that about 12% of utterances were redundantin a corpus of recordings from a call-in financialradio show.
The higher proportion of redundantutterances in our study is predicted by Walker?s(1996) model, in which a task?s tolerance for com-prehension errors influences whether redundantutterances are produced.
In a radio advice show, amisunderstanding may be more easily recoveredfrom than in direction-giving, in which one wrongturn could make it impossible to reach the goal.In addition to revealing the impact of task toler-ance to error on redundancy, this study sheds lighton other circumstances that influence redundancyuse.
Givers produced reactive redundancy in re-sponse to the verbal triggers: Info-requests, Aban-doned utterances, and Incorrect statements.However, even these triggers were not always fol-lowed by redundancy.
In fact, only around 50% ofthe utterances following these triggers were redun-dant.
Such a low response rate is surprising untilwe consider the diversity of utterances covered bythese labels.
For instance, some Info-requests seeknew information (e.g.
?What?s at the top of thestairs??
), and some receiver utterances are aban-doned because the giver interrupts with new in-formation.
Our study lays the groundwork forfuture examinations of speaker responses to listen-er confusion, which can refine these broad catego-ries.
We must also consider the variability inresponses to listener confusion.
We found that giv-ers are more likely to provide redundant utterancesin response to questions when speaking to stran-gers, but this is only one of many factors that couldaffect levels of responsiveness, including speakerpersonality, time pressure, and task difficulty.The non-significant effect of Signals non-understandings on redundancy is surprising.
Thismay be due to the small number of examples ofthis category in our recordings.
We found only 44instances of Signal non-understandings, in contrastto, for example, 156 Abandoned utterances.The non-verbal cue gaze change also increasedthe likelihood of a redundant utterance.
Interesting-ly, gaze changes both to and away from the giver37%24%52%27%0%10%20%30%40%50%60%Question Non-questionRedundantGiverUtterances(%) FriendsStrangers*Figure 3.
Percent of redundant giver utterances fol-lowing questions and non-questions, by relationship.42triggered redundancy.
This is consistent with bothNakano et al?s (2003) finding that gazing at thespeaker signals listener misunderstanding andGoodwin?s (1981) finding that gazing away fromthe speaker indicates a lack of listener attention.It is interesting that 24% of giver utterances fol-lowing No-trigger receiver utterances were redun-dant.
These probably include both redundantutterances triggered by signs of listener confusionthat we did not code for, and proactive redundancy.Proactive redundancy can appear within the firstdescription of some directions (see the No-triggerexample in the Appendix) and when the whole setof directions is repeated as a memory aid.The relationship between the interlocutors doesaffect the amount of redundancy speakers produceoverall and in response to listener signs of confu-sion.
Strangers used more redundant utterancesthan friends and provided more redundant utter-ances after questions.
This supports our hypothesisthat direction-givers speaking to strangers will pri-oritize clarity over efficiency.
The more consistentuse of reactive redundancy in the Strangers condi-tion may be due to speakers?
tendency to avoidconfrontation with strangers.
When responding toquestions from friends, direction-givers may pro-vide some new information because they know thattheir friend will feel comfortable asking anotherquestion if their answer is unclear.
However, whenanswering questions from a stranger, the giver maywish to avoid the embarrassment of further confu-sion by repeating more discourse-old information.However, contrary to our predictions, we didnot find more redundancy or more reactive redun-dancy in the No-vision condition than the Visioncondition.
In fact, we found numerically more re-dundancy in the Vision condition.
Given the lowlevel of significance, we do not discuss this in de-tail, however we suggest that this could be due tothe fact that there are more ways of signaling non-understanding available to the receivers in the Vi-sion condition (both verbal and non-verbal).
There-fore, even if givers do not increase their rates ofreactive redundancy in the Vision condition, theycould provide more reactive redundancy (and moreredundancy overall) because they are receivingmore cues to react to.
Not all situations leading tocommunication difficulties encourage more redun-dancy or more reactive redundancy, but the in-creased explicitness and positivity typical ofconversation between strangers do encourage it.6 ConclusionThis study explored the use of redundancy in task-oriented dialogue, specifically the effects of listen-er behavior and communicative context on theamount of redundancy produced.
We found thatdirection-givers provided redundant utterances inresponse to verbal and non-verbal signs of listenerconfusion.
As predicted, givers were more likely toprioritize clarity over efficiency in their redundan-cy use (using more redundancy overall and moreredundancy in response to questions) when speak-ing to strangers than friends.
Contrary to our pre-dictions, givers did not provide more redundantutterances when they could not see their listener.Direction-giving, due to its high memory loadand the need for the receiver to understand the giv-er almost completely, is a type of discourse thatmay encourage more redundancy than other types.Indeed, we note that our data have a much greaterproportion of redundancies than discussions takenfrom radio talk shows (Walker, 1996).
Future workshould examine the nature of proactive and reac-tive redundancy in more varied discourse contexts,such as negotiation, teaching, and play.
It shouldalso explore the effects of memory load on redun-dancy by varying task complexity, which may beeasier with a more controlled task like the Map-task.
Researchers could study the relationship be-tween saliency and redundancy by studyingcorrelations between a segment?s salience and itslikelihood of being used in a redundant utterance.Our findings can be used to improve the com-municative efficacy of natural language generationsystems like those used in Embodied Conversa-tional Agents (ECAs; Kopp et al, 2008).
For ex-ample, like strangers, direction-giving ECAs coulduse increased overall and reactive redundancy tocompensate for the lack of shared common groundwith the human user of the system.
Analyses of thesyntactic structures of different types of redundantutterances will be important for incorporating theseresults into generation systems.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Paul Tepper, Gregory Ward, DarrenGergle, Alex Podbelski, and our anonymous re-viewers for their helpful advice and hard work.
Weare grateful for generous funding from Motorolaand NSF HCC 0705901.43ReferencesM.
Argyle and M. Cook.
1976.
Gaze and Mutual Gaze.Cambridge University Press, New York.E.
Bard, A. Anderson, C. Sotillo, M. Aylett, G. Doher-ty-Sneddon and A. Newlands.
2000.
Controlling theintelligibility of referring expressions in dialogue.
J.Memory and Language, 42(1):1-22.N.
Bos, J. Olson, D. Gergle, G. Olson, and Z. Wright.2002.
Effects of four computer-mediated communica-tion channels on trust development.
In Proceedings ofSIGCHI 2002, pages 135-140, Minneapolis, MN.H.
P. Branigan, J. F. McLean, and H. Reeve.
2003.Something old, something new: Addressee knowledgeand the given-new contract.
In Proceedings of the25th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science So-ciety, pages 180-185, Boston, MA.B.
Brighton, M. Fujiki, and E. Sonnenberg.
1988.
Res-ponses to requests for clarification by linguisticallynormal and language-impaired children in conversa-tion.
J.
Speech and Hearing Disorders, 53:383-391.P.
Brown and S. C. Levinson.
1987.
Politeness: SomeUniversals in Language Usage.
Cambridge Universi-ty Press, Cambridge, UK.J.
Cassell, A. J. Gill, and P. Tepper.
2007.
Coordinationin conversation and rapport.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Embodied Language Processing atACL, pages 41-50, Prague.H.
H. Clark and E. F. Schaeffer.
1989.
Contributing todiscourse.
Cognitive Science,13:259-294.M.
G. Core and J. F. Allen.
1997.
Coding dialogs withthe DAMSL annotation scheme.
In Proceedings ofAAAI Fall Symposium on Communicative Action inHumans and Machines, pages 28-35, Boston, MA.H.
Dalianis.
1999.
Aggregation in natural language gen-eration.
J. Computational Intelligence, 15(4):384-414.S.
R. Fussell and R. M. Krauss.
1989 a.
The effects ofintended audience on message production and com-prehension: Reference in a common ground frame-work.
European J.
Social Psychology, 25:203-219.S.
R. Fussell and R. M. Kraus.
1989 b. Understandingfriends and strangers: The effects of audience designon message comprehension.
European J.
Social Psy-chology, 19:445-454.C.
Goodwin.
1981.
Conversational Organization: Inte-raction between Speakers and Hearers.
AcademicPress, New York.H.
P. Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In P. Coleand J. Morgan, editors, Syntax and Semantics III ?Speech Acts.
Academic Press,New York, pages 41-58.G.
Hirst, S. McRoy, P. Heeman, P. Edmonds, and D.Horton.
1994.
Repairing conversational misunders-tandings and non-understandings.
Speech Communi-cation, 15: 213-230.L.
Horn.
1993.
Economy and redundancy in a dualisticmodel of natural language.
SKY 1993: Yearbook ofthe Linguistic Association of Finland: 33-72.A.
Horning.
1991.
Readable writing: The role of cohe-sion and redundancy.
J.
Advanced Composition,11:135-145.G.
Hornstein.
1985.
Intimacy in conversational style asa function of the degree of closeness between mem-bers of a dyad.
J.
Personality and Social Psychology,49(3):671-681.W.
Horton and B. Keysar.
1996.
When do speakers takeinto account common ground?
Cognition, 59:91?117.S.
Kopp, P. Tepper, K. Ferriman, K. Striegnitz and J.Cassell.
2008.
Trading spaces: How humans and hu-manoids use speech and gesture to give directions.
InT.
Nishida, editor, Conversational Informatics.
JohnWiley & Sons, New York, pages 133-160.B.
Lindlom.
1990.
Explaining phonetic variation: Asketch of the H and H theory.
In W. Hardcastle & A.Marchal, editors, Speech Production and SpeechModeling.
Kluwer, Dordrecht, pages 403-439.D.
Morrow, A. Lee, and M. Rodvold.
1993.
Analysis ofproblems in routine controller-pilot communication.International J.
Aviation Psychology.
3(4): 285-302.Y.
Nakano, G. Reinstein, T. Stocky, and J. Cassell.2003.
Towards a model of face-to-face grounding.
InProceedings of ACL 2003, pages 553-561, Sapporo,Japan.S.
Planalp and A. Benson.
1992.
Friends' and acquain-tances' conversations I: Perceived differences.
J. So-cial and Personal Relationships, 9:483-506.B.
Schlenker.
1984.
Identities, identifications, and rela-tionships.
In V. Derlega, editor, Communication, In-timacy and Close Relationships.
Academic Press,New York, pages 71-104.R.
Stalnaker.
1978.
Assertion.
In P. Cole, editor, Syntaxand Semantics, Volume 9: Pragmatics.
AcademicPress, New York, pages 315-332.G.
Svendsen and B. Evjemo.
2003.
Implicit referring asan indication of familiarity in face-to-face and phoneconversations.
In Proceedings of INTERACT '03:pages 920-923, Zurich.M.
Theune, D. Hofs and M. van Kessel.
2007.
The Vir-tual guide: A direction giving embodied conversa-tional agent.
In Proceedings of Interspeech 2007,pages 2197-2200, Antwerp, Belgium.L.
Tickle-Degnen and R. Rosenthal.
1990.
The nature ofrapport and its nonverbal correlates.
PsychologicalInquiry, 1(4):285-293.M.
A. Walker.
1992.
Redundancy in collaborative di-alogue.
In Proceedings of the 14th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics, pages 345-351,Nantes, France.M.
A. Walker.
1996.
The effect of resource limits andtask complexity on collaborative planning in dialo-gue.
Artificial Intelligence Journal, 85:181-243.44Appendix: Examples from DialoguesIn the following examples, utterances in italics arethe triggers produced by the receiver, and under-lined utterances are redundant.
Commas indicatepauses.
Receiver utterances in square bracketsoverlap with the portion of the preceding giver ut-terance in brackets.Question ExampleGiver (G): as soon as you come outta the door,uhh on the second floor you?ll [see like a win-dow] in front of youReceiver (R): [mmhm]G: [and then], you?ll wanna take a leftR: [hm]?G: if you look to your left you?ll see the exit sign,uhh with for the stairwellR: ok so then I go to this second floorG: mmhmR: and then do I go right?G: noR: or left?G: you go left [once you come outta] the secondfloorR: [you go left]Incorrect Statement ExampleG: and you?re gonna go towards the computer, andpass the computer, and there will be, copy ma-chines on your right after you pass the computerR: mhmmG: so after you, walk, just past the copy machinesyou?re gonna want to take a hard left, almost likea U-turn?G: once you turn to the right at after the first stairsyou?ll you?ll see a computerR: oh a computer right ok and then I?m gonna takea really hard left like a U-turnG: right well you go past the computer and thenyou?ll see copying machinesR: oh okG: and then but, the copy machines are like maybethree five feet after the computerR: okG: and then that?s when you take the hard leftAbandoned ExampleG: and then you?re gonna hear some kids andpeople talking and stuff, you?re gonna be head-ing toward the clinicR: oh okayG: okay, the clinic you?re is gonna come up onyour right, [there?s gonna] be, kind of, semi cir-cular blue couchesR: [okay], uhhuhG: down there, the stapler, is on the floor, rightnext to a pillar, [um] so basically you?re gonnalike, you?re gonna kind of, turn right to look intothe clinicR: [okay], okayG: and then, the stapler?s kinda just over there tothe left, on the floor by one of the pillars?G: and you?re gonna hear people talking andthere?s gonna [be kids]R: [okay] so and then the, pillar its?
like gonna beone of the pillars on the, right by like I guess it?son theG: basically, basically um you walk into, the clin-ic, and there?s blue, couchesR: mmhmG: and then it?s just a little bit over to the leftR: oh okayG: on the floorNo-Trigger ExampleG: open the door, and you?re gonna see a set ofstairsR: okayG: go down those stairs, to the second floorR: mmhmG so you?re gonna be on the third floor, you?regonna then you?re gonna take the stairs down tothe second floorR: okay45
