Generating Textual Summaries of Bar ChartsSeniz Demir Sandra Carberry Kathleen F. McCoyDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of DelawareNewark, DE 19716{demir, carberry, mccoy}@cis.udel.eduAbstractInformation graphics, such as bar charts andline graphs, play an important role in mul-timodal documents.
This paper presents anovel approach to producing a brief textualsummary of a simple bar chart.
It outlinesour approach to augmenting the core messageof the graphic to produce a brief summary.Our method simultaneously constructs boththe discourse and sentence structures of thetextual summary using a bottom-up approach.The result is then realized in natural language.An evaluation study validates our generationmethodology.1 IntroductionInformation graphics, such as bar charts and linegraphs, are an important component of a multi-modal document.
However, summarization has fo-cused primarily on the text of a document.
But asshown in (Carberry et al, 2006), information graph-ics in magazine and newspaper articles often conveya message that is not repeated in the article?s text.Thus information graphics cannot be ignored.Individuals with sight impairments can access thetext of an electronic document via text to speechsystems.
But such individuals are stymied whenthey encounter information graphics.
The SIGHTsystem (Elzer et al, 2007) has the goal of provid-ing the user with the message and knowledge thatone would gain from viewing the graphic, ratherthan providing alternative access to what the graphiclooks like.
In the current Bayesian network imple-mentation, the system uses the communicative sig-nals present in the graphic to recognize one of thetwelve message categories that can be conveyed bya bar chart and produces a logical representationof what we will refer to as the core message con-veyed by the graphic; this representation is trans-lated into natural language via templates.
For exam-ple, the system determines that the core message ofthe graphic in Figure 1 is that the bar for the UnitedStates has the maximum value of the entities listed,and the system produces Maximum(First Bar) as thelogical representation of that message.
However,this is insufficient as a summary of the graphic sinceit doesn?t convey the particularly significant featuresof the graphic such as the fact that the number ofhacker attacks in the United States is far greater thanin the other countries listed.In this paper, we explore the generation of aneffective initial summary of a bar chart within theSIGHT system.
Input to our system is a logical rep-resentation of the graphic?s core message (as pro-duced by SIGHT) and the XML representation ofthe graphic which specifies the components of thegraphic such as the number of bars and the heightsof each bar.
Our goal is to generate a succinct coher-ent summary of a graphic that captures its core mes-sage and the most important and significant features.At the same time, the summary need not include allinformation that could be extracted from the graphicsince future work on SIGHT includes a mechanismfor responding to follow-up questions from the user.Our work is unique in that it generates a sum-mary of the content of a bar chart with no domainrestriction and constructs a high-quality but briefsummary by incorporating the graphic?s core mes-7C o u n t r i e s  W i t h  t h e  M o s t  H a c k e rA t t a c k s ,  2 0 0 2W o r l d w i d e ,  t h e  a t t a c k s  j u m p e dU n i t e d  S t a t e s 2 4 , 4 3 4B r a z i lB r i t a i nG e r m a n yI ta ly0 5 , 0 0 0 1 0 , 0 0 0 1 5 , 0 0 0 2 0 , 0 0 0Figure 1: Graphic conveying a maximum bar.sage and the most important and significant featuresof the graphic.
Our system produces a coherent or-ganization of the content of the summary that wehypothesize lends itself to follow-up questions, ap-plies the notion of syntactic complexity in choosinghow to aggregate information into sentence-sizedpieces, utilizes a sentence realizer to convey the out-put in natural language, and applies heuristics forconstructing referents for graphical elements.
Thus,our work addresses several generation problems.Section 2 discusses related work in the areaof graph summarization.
Section 3 presents ourmethodology for identifying the content of initialsummaries.
Section 4 describes our approach for or-ganizing the summaries.
Section 5 presents someissues that we addressed in realizing the summariesand a few example summaries generated by our sys-tem.
Section 6 discusses the results of an evaluationstudy that validates our methodology.2 Related WorkGraph summarization has received some attention.The SumTime project uses pattern recognition tech-niques to generate textual summaries of automati-cally generated time-series data; different systemshave been designed in three domains, such asSumTime-Turbine (Yu et al, 2007) for data fromgas turbine engines.
However, each of these sys-tems is domain-dependent.
We view this as a verydifferent problem from the one that we address inthis paper, since we are working on domain indepen-dent graphical representations.
The iGRAPH-Litesystem (Ferres et al, 2007), whose main objectiveis to make the information in a graphic accessibleto blind users via keyboard commands, uses tem-plates to provide a short textual summary of whatthe graphic looks like, but their summary is not con-cerned with the higher level knowledge conveyed bythe graphic.
The goal of Futrelle?s project (Futrelle,1999) is to produce a summary graphic that capturesthe content of one or more graphics.
However, theend result is itself a graphic, not text.3 Informational Content of the SummariesIn (McCoy et al, 2001), we reported an informalexperiment in which human subjects were asked towrite a brief summary of a series of line graphs withthe same high-level intention.
This experiment ledto three observations:?
the intended message of the graphic was con-tained in all summaries.?
summaries of the same graphic by differentsubjects were similar.?
summaries of different graphics in the samemessage category (such as Rising Trend) var-ied in the information provided.Subjects included more than the core message ofthe graphic in their summaries.
The extra infor-mation could be explained as capturing features ofthe graphic that were visually salient.
It was hy-pothesized that what is taken as visually salient in agraphic relates to the overall message of the graphic.For example, in the line graphs analyzed, if the over-all message of the graphic is an increasing trend andthe variance in that trend is large, then the varianceis salient.
The fact that the summaries only includedthe core message and the visually salient features,correlates with Grice?s Maxim of Quantity (Grice,1975) which states that one?s discourse contributionshould be as informative as necessary for the pur-poses of the current exchange but not more so.To extend these observations to other kinds of in-formation graphics, particulary to simple bar charts,we needed to identify the kinds of features that weresalient with respect to the graphic?s overall message.For this purpose, we conducted a set of formal ex-periments with human subjects.
Our goal was a setof rules that took into account the message category(such as Rising Trend or Rank of Entity) and the vi-sual features of the graphic to specify what proposi-tions should be included in the initial summary.83.1 Experimental SetupBased on our experience with summarizing graph-ics, we first identified the set of all propositions(PROP ALL) that reflect information that we envi-sioned someone might ask about a simple bar chart.Twenty graduate students from a variety of depart-ments participated in the experiments.
Each subjectwas given an information graphic along with a sen-tence conveying the intended message of the graphic(as identified by the SIGHT system) and a subset ofPROP ALL, and was asked to classify these addi-tional propositions into one of three classes accord-ing to how important they felt it was to include thatproposition in the initial summary: essential, pos-sible, and not important.
Subjects were told toassume that the graphic was part of an article thatthe user is reading and that he would be able to askfollow-up questions after receiving the summary.Twenty-one graphics were used in the experi-ments and each participant was given six graphicsto view.
The graphics were either selected from arti-cles in popular media or constructed from scratch topresent a number of different salient features withinthe same graphic.
Eight different message categorieswere tested in the experiments1 and the graphicsfrom the same message category reflected differentsalient features that had been observed in a corpusof collected graphics.3.2 Computationalizing Proposition SelectionTo analyze the experiment?s results, we assigned anumeric score to each category (essential=3, possi-ble=1, not important=0) indicating the level of im-portance assigned by the subjects.
We computedan importance level (IL) for each proposition thatmight be included in a summary of a graphic, esti-mating how important it is to be included in the ini-tial summary.
The IL of a proposition is computedbased on the average of the importance assigned byeach subject.
We classify a proposition as a highly-rated proposition in a graphic (and therefore worthyof being included in the initial summary) if its im-portance level is equal to or above the importancelevel that would be obtained if at least half of the1We did not test message categories that are the opposite ofcategories used in the experiments, such as Minimum which isthe opposite of Maximum and thus can be modeled similarly.subjects had classified the proposition as essential.The particular assignments of values to categoriesshown above was used in order to emphasize in-stances in which subjects placed a proposition in theessential category.For each message category, we analyzed the setsof highly-rated propositions identified for the graph-ics associated with that message category and handconstructed a set of content identification rules spec-ifying whether a proposition should be included inthe initial summary.
If a proposition was classifiedas highly-rated for all graphics in a particular mes-sage category, the content identification rule statedthat the proposition should be included in the ini-tial summary for every graphic whose core messagefell into that message category.
For the other highly-rated propositions for a message category, we iden-tified a feature that was visually salient only in thegraphics where the proposition was marked as es-sential, and our content identification rule used thepresence of this feature in the graphic as a condi-tion for the proposition to be included in the initialsummary.
Thirty content identification rules weredefined in the system.Besides the propositions capturing salient featuresof the graphic, we observed that the subjects se-lected propositions whose absence might lead theuser to draw false conclusions by default (for exam-ple, the propositions indicating that the trend start-ing from 1997 does not cover the full range of barlabels in the graphic in Figure 2).
We constructedrules to add such content.
This correlates with themaxim in (Joshi et al, 1984) which states that a sys-tem should not only produce correct information butshould also prevent the user from drawing false in-ferences.The following are glosses of two representativecontent identification rules applicable to a graphicwhose core message is an increasing trend:?
If (message category equals ?increas-ing trend?)
then include(propositions con-veying the rate of increase of the trend)?
If (message category equals ?increas-ing trend?)
and (coverage(graphic) not equalcoverage(trend)) then include(propositionsindicating that the trend does not cover the fullrange of bar labels)To see how our rules might affect the generated9summary, consider the graphic in Figure 2.
TheSIGHT system recognizes the core message as anincreasing trend from 1997 to 2002.
The contentidentification rules defined for increasing trend se-lect the following pieces of additional informationto include in the initial summary of the graphic:?
The overall rate of increase of the trend, whichis moderate?
The range of the bar values in the trend:$480,000 to $1,230,000?
The fact that there is an unusually steep rise be-tween 2000 and 2001?
The period that the graphic covers, which isfrom 1996 to 20024 Organizing Coherent SummariesAt this point in the processing, the system has iden-tified the informational content to be conveyed in theinitial summary, which consists of the core messageand the set of propositions identified by the contentidentification rules.
We need to represent and orga-nize the information to be communicated, determinehow the content should be aggregated into sentence-sized pieces, and make decisions about referring ex-pressions (Reiter and Dale, 1997).To represent and help organize the propo-sitions that should be included in the ini-tial summary, we use two kinds of predicates.Relative predicates, such as differs, are used toexpress relations between the graphical elements.For example, differs(bar(A),maximum bar,50%)shows that the percentage difference between thevalues of bar(A) and the maximum bar is 50%.Attributive predicates, such as has attribute, areused to elaborate the graphical elements.
For ex-ample, has attribute(trend,?type?,?increasing?
)shows that the trend observed in the graphic is anincreasing trend.
We refer to the first argument ofa predicate as its main entity and the others as sec-ondary entities.Since a top-down planning approach does notguarantee that all propositions will be covered bythe final text plan (Marcu, 1997), we use a bottom-up planner for structuring the initial summaries.
Thepropositions selected for inclusion in the initial sum-maries can be classified as message related, spe-cific, or computational based on the type of in-1 9 9 6 2 0 0 12 0 0 01 9 9 81 9 9 7 1 9 9 9 2 0 0 24 0 008 0 0$ 1 , 2 0 0 , 0 0 0R i s i n g  J u r y  A w a r d sM e a n4 8 0 , 0 0 01 , 2 3 0 , 0 0 0Figure 2: Graphic with an increasing trend.formation they convey.
The core message of thegraphic is captured by the message related proposi-tions.
Specific propositions focus on specific piecesof information in the graphic such as the propo-sitions conveying the unusually large rise between2000 and 2001 in the graphic in Figure 2.
On theother hand, computational propositions require com-putations or abstractions over the whole graphic,such as the propositions conveying the rate of in-crease in the graphic in Figure 2.
Once the propo-sitions to be included in the summary are identified,we assign them to one of these three classes.We hypothesize that the message-related classof propositions should be presented first since thisplaces emphasis on the core message of the graphic.We anticipate that the user will ask follow-up ques-tions after receiving the initial summary.
Therefore,it is appropriate to close the initial summary withpropositions from the computational class so thatthe whole graphic is in the user?s focus of atten-tion (Grosz and Sidner, 1986).
Thus we hypothe-size that a good ordering of propositions in the ini-tial summary is the message-related class, the spe-cific class, and finally the computational class.
Thisproduces a partial ordering of the propositions to beincluded in the summary.Each proposition can be realized as a single sen-tence.
For example, shows(graphic,trend) can berealized as ?The graphic shows a trend?
or ?Thereis a trend in the graphic?.
Consequently, a set ofpropositions can be viewed as a set of single sen-tences.
Figure 3 shows the propositions in the mes-sage related class for the graphic in Figure 2, alongwith a possible realization for each.Although each proposition could be conveyed asa single sentence, the result is unnatural and not very10shows(graphic,trend)exists(trend,descriptor for dependent axis)has_attr(trend,type,increasing)has(trend,period)starts(period,at,1997)ends(period,at,2002)The graphic shows a trendThere is a trend in the mean dollarvalue of jury awardsThe trend is an increasing trendThere is a trend over the periodThe period starts at 1997The period ends at 2002Figure 3: Propositions in Message related Class.coherent.
Thus, we define operators to relate propo-sitions and explore aggregating them.
The opera-tors work on trees; initially, each proposition is theroot of a single node tree.
Each tree represents oneor more propositions that can be realized as a sin-gle sentence, and operators combine individual treesin a class into more complex trees.
The followingare two such operators which work on relative pred-icates:?
And Operator: This operator combines twotrees if their root propositions share the samemain entity.
An And predicate with the samemain entity forms the root of the new tree, andthe trees that are combined form the descen-dents of this root.?
Which Operator: This operator attaches onetree as a descendent of another tree, connectedby a Which predicate, if the main entity of theproposition at the root of the first tree is a sec-ondary entity in the proposition at the root ofthe second tree.
That particular entity forms themain entity of the Which predicate.One possible result of applying our operators tothe set of propositions (single node trees) in Figure 3produces the single but more complex tree shownin Figure 4.
The And predicate (***) in Figure 4is produced by the And Operator and the resultantsubtree is attached to the predicate shows by theWhich Operator.4.1 Evaluating StructuresDifferent combinations of operators produce differ-ent sets of trees, each of which represents a differ-ent text structure and consequently leads to differ-shows(graphic,trend)exists(trend,descriptor for dependent axis)has_attr(trend,type,increasing)has(trend,period)starts(period,at,1997) ends(period,at,2002)Which(trend)And(trend)Which(period)And(period)******Figure 4: Best Structure of Message related Class.ent realized text.
These structures must be evalu-ated to determine which one is the best.
We don?twant a structure where each proposition is realizedas a single sentence nor a structure where groups ofpropositions are realized with sentences that are toocomplex.
Our objective is to find a structure whichstands at a mediatory point between these extremes.Each tree in a structure represents a set of propo-sitions that can be realized as a single sentence.
Themost straightforward way of realizing a tree wouldbe conjoining the realizations of subtrees rooted byan And predicate, embedding the realization of asubtree rooted by a Which predicate as a relativeclause, and realizing a subtree that consists solelyof an attributive predicate as an adjective or a prepo-sitional phrase.
However, care must be taken that thesentence realization of a tree is not too complex.Research has used a number of different measuresto assess syntactic complexity of written text andspoken language samples (Roark et al, 2007).
Weapply the notion of syntactic complexity to evalu-ate the semantic units (predicates) that will be re-alized.
The revised D-level sentence complexityscale (Covington et al, 2006) forms the core of oursyntactic complexity measure.
The D-Level scalemeasures the complexity of a sentence according tothe sequence in which children acquire the abilityto use different types of sentences.
The sentencetypes with the lowest score are those that childrenacquire first and therefore are the simplest types.Among the seven levels defined in the revised D-Level scale, the levels of interest in our work are(in order of increasing complexity): simple sen-tences, conjoined sentences, sentences with a rela-11Message Related:The graphic shows an increasing trend in the mean dol-lar value of jury awards over the period from 1997 to2002.Specific:The value of these awards ranges from 480,000 dol-lars to 1,230,000 dollars.
The graphic covers a periodfrom 1996 to 2002.
Between 2000 and 2001, an unusu-ally steep rise is observed in the value of these awards.Computational:Moderate increases are observed every year during theperiod from 1997 to 2002 in the value of these awards.Table 1: Realization of the Initial Overall Structure.Message Related:Although the graphic covers a period from 1996 to 2002,the graphic shows an increasing trend in the mean dollarvalue of jury awards over the period from 1997 to 2002.Specific:The value of these awards ranges from 480,000 dollars to1,230,000 dollars.Computational:Except for a steep rise between 2000 and 2001, moderateincreases are observed every year in the value of theseawards.Table 2: Realization of the Final Overall Structure.tive clause, and sentences with more than one levelof embedding.
However, the definition of sentencetypes at each level is too general.
Therefore, weuse a finer distinction between sentence types withineach D-level, such as a simple sentence with morethan one preposition has a higher complexity than asimple sentence with a single preposition.To measure the complexity of sentences that willrealize a structure, we define a number of complex-ity estimators.
A tree consisting of a single node isidentified as having the lowest syntactic complex-ity.
We use And predicate and Which predicate es-timators to estimate the complexity of the sentencesused to realize more complex trees.
To do this, esti-mators look for realization opportunities that wouldproduce lower complexity values than what the moststraightforward realization would produce.
For in-stance, the And predicate estimators check whetheror not the realizations of two subtrees rooted byan And predicate can be combined into a singlesentence which is not a compound sentence con-sisting of two independent sentences.
These es-timators have similar considerations to the clause-combining operations used by Walker et.al (2002)in the SPoT sentence planner.
For example, one ofthe And predicate estimators can successfully deter-mine that the realizations ?There is a trend in themean dollar value of jury awards?
and ?There is atrend over the period from 1997 to 2002?2 can becombined into ?There is a trend in the mean dollarvalue of jury awards over the period from 1997 to2Assume that the subtree in Figure 4 rooted byWhich(period) can be realized as ?from 1997 to 2002?.2002?
for the tree in Figure 4.
This results in a com-plexity score which is lower than the score of a com-pound sentence consisting of two conjoined inde-pendent sentences.
The Which predicate estimatorscheck whether a tree rooted by a Which predicatecan be realized as an adjunct to the modified entityrather than as a more complex relative clause.
Forexample, one of the Which predicate estimators canidentify that * and the subtree rooted at ** in Fig-ure 4 can be realized as ?The graphic shows a trendin the mean dollar value of jury awards over the pe-riod from 1997 to 2002?.Center-embedded relative clauses are more dif-ficult to comprehend than corresponding right-branching clauses (Kidd and Bavin, 2002).
Ourcomplexity metric for evaluating the complexity of atree penalizes Which predicates that will be realizedas a relative clause in the middle of a sentence morethan one that appears at the end.
Once the complex-ity metric has evaluated the complexity of each treein a candidate structure, the complexities of the treesare summed to get the complexity of the structure.Our metric for selecting the best structure balancesthe number of sentences and their complexity.The initial overall structure of the summary con-sists of the best structures for the message related,specific, and computational classes.
As a final step,we check whether we can improve the evaluation ofthe overall structure of the summary by moving treesor subtrees between the best structures for the threeclasses.
For example, the best structure for the spe-cific class might contain a tree that conveys infor-mation about an entity introduced by a proposition12in the message related class.
Moving this tree to themessage-related class and using the Which opera-tor to combine it with the tree introducing the entity(thereby realizing it as a relative clause) might im-prove the evaluation of the overall structure of thesummary.
To be consistent with the motivation be-hind the initial groupings of the propositions, we donot allow movements from the message related classor any movement that will empty the computationalclass.
Table 1 presents the summary that our sys-tem generates for the graphic in Figure 2 before themovements between classes, and Table 2 presentsthe summary after the movements.5 Realizing SummariesTo realize the summaries in natural language, weuse the FUF/SURGE surface realizer (Elhadad andRobin, 1996) with some changes made to address afew problems encountered with respect to the use ofconjunctions and subject-ellipsises.
Different strate-gies are defined in the system for aggregating therealizations of trees that are linked with operators.The strategy selected by the system is based on therelation (such as concession) that holds between thepropositions at the root of the trees and the syntac-tic forms of their realization opportunities.
For ex-ample, the system uses different strategies for ag-gregating the trees rooted by the And predicates inFigure 4, where the tree rooted by And(period) is re-alized as a combination of prepositional phrases andthe tree rooted by And(trend) is realized as a fullsentence containing a set of prepositional phrases.5.1 A Descriptor for the Dependent AxisThe dependent axis of an information graphic is of-ten not labelled with a full descriptor of what is be-ing measured and therefore a mechanism for extract-ing an appropriate descriptor had to be developed.We undertook a corpus analysis and implemented asystem to realize the descriptors (Demir et al, 2007).Our corpus analysis found that the full descriptor of-ten must be built from pieces of text extracted fromdifferent places in the graphic.
We identified seventext levels (text components) which form a hierar-chy (the top being the Overall Caption and the bot-tom being the Dependent Axis Label), and we ob-served that the texts at the lower levels are more?
95 ?00?99?97?96 ?98 ?01 ?0264201 0  p e r c e n t8A n n u a l  p e r c e n t  c h a n g e  i ng l o b a l  o u t p u tFigure 5: Graphic conveying a contrast change.likely to contribute to the descriptor than the textsat the higher levels.
We developed a set of heuristicsand augmentation rules for constructing the descrip-tor for the dependent axis and validated them on apreviously unseen corpus of graphics.5.2 Referent GenerationThe descriptor that our system constructs is always anoun phrase, but it may be quite long.
Our referringexpression generator uses the full descriptor whenthe dependent axis is first referenced in the text, butonly the head noun for subsequent references.
Torelate the head noun to the descriptor in the text, thedemonstratives ?this?
or ?these?
is added to the frontof the head noun unless it follows a comparison suchas ?more?.
This simple mechanism appears to workwell for our initial summaries.5.3 Example SummariesFor the graphic in Figure 1, the SIGHT system positsthat the graphic?s core message is that the bar forthe United States has the maximum value among thebars listed.
Our system adds additional propositionsand produces the following summary:?The graphic shows that United States with 24,434has the highest number of hacker attacks amongthe countries3 Brazil, Britain, Germany, Italy, andUnited States.
United States has 4.9 times more at-tacks than the average of other countries.
?For the graphic in Figure 5, the SIGHT systemposits that the core message is that the change at thelast bar is in contrast with the previous increasingtrend.
Our system generates the following summary:3Our system has a module which identifies the ontologicalcategory of the bar labels (Demir et al, 2007).13?The graphic shows a small drop in 2002 in contrastwith the increasing trend in annual percent changein global output over the period from 1995 to 2001.Except for a small drop in 1996, varying increasesare observed every year during the period from 1995to 2001 in this change, which shows an overall in-crease of 485.4 percent and shows a decrease of 8.7percent between 2001 and 2002.?6 EvaluationThe work presented in this paper consists of sev-eral different components, all of which we claimcontribute to the quality of the graphical summary.Our evaluation focused on three of these and eval-uated whether or not our decisions with respect tothese components contributed to the perceived qual-ity of the summary: the organization and ordering ofthe informational content (O), the aggregation of theinformation into more complex structures (A), andthe metric used to evaluate the structures that repre-sent different possible aggregations of the informa-tional content (E).
We conducted an experiment withfifteen participants where they were presented withfour different summaries of twelve graphics from avariety of domains.
We focused on increasing anddecreasing trend graphics since they have the great-est variety of possible summaries.
For each of thegraphics, the participants were asked to rank ran-domly ordered summaries in terms of their qualityin conveying the informational content.
The sum-maries varied according to the test parameters:?
S O+A+E+: A summary that uses the orderingrules, the aggregation rules, and is rated highestby the evaluation metric.
This is the summaryproduced by our system.?
S O+A+E-: A summary that uses the orderingand aggregation rules, but was not rated highestby the evaluation metric.?
S O-A+E+: A summary where the proposi-tions are randomly ordered, but aggregationtakes place, and the aggregation is rated bestby the evaluation metric.?
S O-A-E-: A summary consisting of singlesentences that are randomly ordered.The results of the experiment are presented in Ta-ble 3.
It is particularly noteworthy that the summarygenerated by our system was most often (65.6% ofSummary type Best 2nd 3rd 4thS O+A+E+ 65.6% 26.6% 6.7% 1.1%S O+A+E- 16.7% 32.2% 33.3% 17.8%S O-A+E+ 16.7% 30% 40% 13.3%S O-A-E- 1% 11.2% 20% 67.8%Table 3: Ranking of Summary Types.the time) rated as the best summary and overwhelm-ingly (92.2% of the time) rated as one of the top twosummaries.
The table shows that omitting the eval-uation metric (S O+A+E-) or omitting ordering ofpropositions (S O-A+E+) results in summaries thatare substantially less preferred by the subjects.
Wegained insights into improving the system?s perfor-mance by looking at the comments made by the sub-jects when our summary was not selected as the best.For example, it appears that the subjects did not likesummaries where exceptions were fronted on thecore message with an ?although?
clause rather thanfollowing the core message (S O+A+E-).
We hy-pothesize that fronting the exception detracted fromthe core message.
This is easily remedied in ourevaluation metric.
Overall, the results shown in Ta-ble 3 support our methodology for generating sum-maries.
In the future, we will test the summarieswith blind individuals to determine their effective-ness in providing alternative access to graphics.7 ConclusionThis paper has presented our methodology for gen-erating brief and coherent summaries of simple barcharts.
Our work is the first to address the prob-lem of summarizing the content of bar charts.
Wehave presented our approach for identifying the ap-propriate content of an initial summary, ordering andaggregating the included propositions, and evaluat-ing the resultant summary structures to select thebest one.
Overall, the results of an evaluation studyvalidate our ordering, aggregation, and evaluationmethodology.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Dr. Stephanie Elzer for heradvice, help, and implementation of the SIGHT sys-tem upon which this work is built and Dr. CharlesCallaway for his valuable help in addressing theproblems encountered with the realizer.14ReferencesSandra Carberry, Stephanie Elzer, and Seniz Demir.2006.
Information graphics: an untapped resource fordigital libraries.
In Proc.
of SIGIR?2006.Michael A. Covington, Congzhou He, Cati Brown, Lo-rina Naci, and John Brown 2006.
How complex is thatsentence?
A proposed revision of the Rosenberg andAbbeduto D-Level scale.
Research Report, AI Center,University of Georgia.Seniz Demir, Sandra Carberry, and Stephanie Elzer.2007.
Effectively realizing the inferred message of aninformation graphic.
In Proc.
of RANLP?2007.Michael Elhadad and Jacques Robin.
1996.
An overviewof SURGE: a re-usable comprehensive syntactic real-ization component.
In Proc.
of INLG?1996.Stephanie Elzer, Edward Schwartz, Sandra Carberry,Daniel Chester, Seniz Demir, and Peng Wu.
2007.A browser extension for providing visually impairedusers access to the content of bar charts on the web.
InProc.
of WEBIST?2007.Leo Ferres, Petro Verkhogliad, Gitte Lindgaard, LouisBoucher, Antoine Chretien, and Martin Lachance.2007.
Improving accessibility to statistical graphs: theiGraph-Lite system.
In Proc.
of ASSETS?2007.Robert Futrelle.
1999.
Summarization of diagrams indocuments.
In Advances in Automated Text Summa-rization.
MIT Press, pp.
403-421.Paul Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In Syntax andSemantics, Speech Acts, 3:41-58.Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner.
1986.
Attention,intentions, and the structure of discourse.
In Compu-tational Linguistics, 12(3):175?204.Aravind Joshi, Bonnie Webber, and Ralph Weischedel.1984.
Living up to expectations: computing expertresponses.
In Proc.
of NCAI?1984.Evan Kidd and Edith Bavin.
2002.
English-speakingchildrens comprehension of relative clauses: evidencefor general-cognitive and language-specific constraintson development.
In Journal of Psycholinguistic Re-search, 31(6):599-617.Daniel Marcu.
1997.
The rhetorical parsing, summariza-tion, and generation of natural language texts.
PhDthesis, Department of Computer Science, University ofToronto.Kathleen F. McCoy, Sandra Carberry, Tom Roper, andNancy Green.
2001.
Towards generating textual sum-maries of graphs.
In Proc.
of HCI?2001.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
1997.
Building appliednatural language generation systems.
In Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 3(1):57?87.Brian Roark, Margaret Mitchell, and Kristy Holling-shead.
2007.
Syntactic complexity measures fordetecting mild cognitive impairment.
In Proc.
ofBioNLP?2007.Marilyn Walker, Owen Rambow, and Monica Rogati.2002.
Training a sentence planner for spoken dialogueusing boosting.
In Computer Speech and Language:Special Issue on Spoken Language Generation, 16(3-4):409-433.Jin Yu, Ehud Reiter, Jim Hunter, and Chris Mellish.2007.
Choosing the content of textual summariesof large time-series data sets.
In Natural LanguageEngineering,13(1):25?49.15
