Proceedings of the Third ACL Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 36?43,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Annotated Corpus Outside Its Original Context: A Corpus-BasedExercise BookBarbora Hladka?
and Ondr?ej Kuc?eraInstitute of Formal and Applied Linguistics, Charles UniversityMalostranske?
na?m.
25118 00 PragueCzech Republichladka@ufal.mff.cuni.cz, ondrej.kucera@centrum.czAbstractWe present the STYX system, which is de-signed as an electronic corpus-based exercisebook of Czech morphology and syntax withsentences directly selected from the PragueDependency Treebank, the largest annotatedcorpus of the Czech language.
The exercisebook offers complex sentence processing withrespect to both morphological and syntacticphenomena, i. e. the exercises allow studentsof basic and secondary schools to practiceclassifying parts of speech and particular mor-phological categories of words and in the pars-ing of sentences and classifying the syntacticfunctions of words.
The corpus-based exer-cise book presents a novel usage of annotatedcorpora outside their original context.1 IntroductionSchoolchildren can use a computer to chat with theirfriends, to play games, to draw, to browse the Inter-net or to write their own blogs - why should they notuse it to parse sentences or to determine the mor-phological categories of words?
We do not expectthem to practice grammar as enthusiastically as theydo what is mentioned above, but we believe that anelectronic exercise book could make the practicing,which they need to do anyway, more fun.We present the procedure of building an exercisebook of the Czech language based on the PragueDependency Treebank.
First (in Section 2) wepresent the motivation for building an exercise bookof Czech morphology and syntax based on an an-notated corpus ?
the Prague Dependency Treebank(PDT).
Then we provide a short description of thePDT itself in Section 3.
Section 4 is the core ofour paper.
Section 4.1 is devoted to the filtering ofthe PDT sentences in such a way that the complex-ity of sentences included in the exercise book ex-actly corresponds to the complexity of sentences ex-ercised in traditional Czech textbooks and exercisebooks.
Section 4.2 documents the transformation ofthe sentences ?
more precisely a transformation oftheir annotations into the school analysis scheme asrecommended by the official framework of the ed-ucational programme for general secondary educa-tion (Jer?a?bek and Tupy?, 2005).
The evaluation of thesystem is described in Section 4.3.
Section 5 sum-marizes this paper and plans for the future work.2 MotivationFrom the very beginning, we had an idea of us-ing an annotated corpus outside its original context.We recalled our experience from secondary school,namely from language lessons when we learnedmorphology and syntax.
We did it ?with pen and pa-per?
and more or less hated it.
Thus we decided tobuild an electronic exercise book to learn and prac-tice the morphology and the syntax ?by moving themouse around the screen.
?In principle, there are two ways to build an ex-ercise book - manually or automatically.
A manualprocedure requires collecting sentences the authorsusually make up and then process with regard to thechosen aspects.
This is a very demanding, time-consuming task and therefore the authors manageto collect only tens (possibly hundreds) of sentencesthat simply cannot fully reflect the real usage of alanguage.
An automatic procedure is possible whenan annotated corpus of the language is available.Then the disadvantages of the manual procedure dis-36appear.
It is expected that the texts in a corpus arealready selected to provide a well-balanced corpusreflecting the real usage of the language, the hard an-notation work is also done and the size of such cor-pus is thousands or tens of thousands of annotatedsentences.
The task that remains is to transform theannotation scheme used in the corpus into the sen-tence analysis scheme that is taught in schools.
Infact, a procedure based on an annotated corpus thatwe apply is semi-automatic, since the annotationscheme transformation presents a knowledge-basedprocess designed manually - no machine-learningtechnique is used.We browsed the Computer-Assisted LanguageLearning (CALL) approaches, namely those con-centrated under the teaching and language cor-pora interest group (e.g.
(Wichmann and Fligel-stone (eds.
), 1997), (Tribble, 2001), (Murkherjee,2004), (Schultze, 2003), (Scott, Tribble, 2006)).We realized that none of them actually employsmanually annotated corpora ?
they use corpora ashuge banks of texts without additional linguisticinformation (i.e.
without annotation).
Only oneproject (Keogh et al, 2004) works with an automat-ically annotated corpus to teach Irish and Germanmorphology.Reviewing the Czech electronic exercise booksavailable (e.g.
(Terasoft, Ltd., 2003)), none of themprovides the users with any possibility of analyzingthe sentence both morphologically and syntactically.All of them were built manually.Considering all the facts mentioned above, wefind our approach to be novel one.
One of the mostexciting aspects of corpora is that they may be usedto a good advantage both in research and teach-ing.
That is why we wanted to present this systemthat makes schoolchildren familiar with an academicproduct.
At the same time, this system represents achallenge and an opportunity for academics to pop-ularize a field with a promising future that is devotedto natural language processing.3 The Prague Dependency TreebankThe Prague Dependency Treebank (PDT) presentsthe largest annotated corpus of Czech, and its secondedition was published in 2006 (PDT 2.0, 2006).
ThePDT had arisen from the tradition of the successfulPrague School of Linguistics.
The dependency ap-proach to syntactic analysis with the main role ofa verb has been applied.
The annotations go fromthe morphological layer through to the intermedi-ate syntactic-analytical layer to the tectogrammati-cal layer (the layer of an underlying syntactic struc-ture).
The texts have been annotated in the samedirection, i. e. from the simplest layer to the mostcomplex.
This fact corresponds with the amount ofdata annotated on each level ?
2 million words havebeen annotated on the lowest morphological layer,1.5 million words on both the morphological and thesyntactic layer, and 0.8 million words on all threelayers.Within the PDT conceptual framework, a sen-tence is represented as a rooted ordered tree with la-beled nodes and edges on both syntactic (Hajic?ova?,Kirschner and Sgall, 1999) and tectogrammatical(Mikulova?
et al, 2006) layers.
Thus we speak aboutsyntactic and tectogrammatical trees, respectively.Representation on the morphological layer (Hana etal., 2005) corresponds to a list of (word token andmorphological tag) pairs.
Figure 1 illustrates thesyntactic and morphological annotation of the sam-ple sentence Rozd?
?l do regulovane?
ceny byl hrazenz dotac??.
[The variation of the regulated price wasmade up by grants.]
One token of the morphologicallayer is represented by exactly one node of the tree(rozd?
?l [variation], do [of], regulovane?
[regulated],ceny [price], byl [was], hrazen [made up], z [by],dotac??
[grants], ?.?)
and the dependency relation be-tween two nodes is captured by an edge betweenthem, i. e. between the dependent and its governor.The actual type of the relation is given as a func-tion label of the edge, for example the edge (rozd?
?l,hrazen) is labeled by the function Sb (subject) of thenode rozd??l.
Together with a syntactic function, amorphological tag is displayed (rozd?
?l, NNIS1-----A----).Since there is m:n correspondence between thenumber of nodes in syntactic and tectogrammati-cal trees, it would be rather confusing to displaythe annotations on those layers all together in onetree.
Hence we provide a separate tree visualizingthe tectogrammatical annotation of the sample sen-tence ?
see Figure 2.
A tectogrammatical lemmaand a functor are relevant to our task, thus we dis-play them with each node in the tectogrammatical37DFPSUSV$X[65R]GtO11,6$6EGR55$X[3UHJXORYDQp$$)6$$WUFHQ\11)6$$WUE\O9S<6;5$$$X[9KUD]HQ9V<6;;$33UHG]55$X[3GRWDFt11)3$$GY=$X[.Figure 1: A PDT syntactic tree of the sentence Rozd?
?l doregulovane?
ceny byl hrazen z dotac?
?.tree, e. g. (hradit, PRED).In the following text, we will be using the term thePDT approach when having in mind the conceptualframework of PDT annotation, and the school ap-proach when having in mind the conceptual frame-work of a sentence analysis as it is taught in schools.4 Exercise book compositionWith regards to our idea, the electronic exercisebook is an electronic system that consists of?
a database of sentences with their morphologi-cal and syntactic analyses automatically gener-ated from an annotated corpus,?
a user interface?
to select sentences from the database or, inother words, to compose the exercises,?
to simultaneously analyze the selectedsentences both morphologically and syn-tactically,roott-cmpr9410-049-p74s3rozd?lPATcenaRSTRregulovan?RSTR#GenACThraditPREDdotaceMEANSFigure 2: A PDT tectogrammatical tree of the sentenceRozd?
?l do regulovane?
ceny byl hrazen z dotac??.?
to check the analyses.More specifically, the composition of the PDT-based exercise book of Czech morphology and syn-tax implies the selection of those sentences fromPDT that are annotated morphologically and syntac-tically.
However, there emerge some syntactic phe-nomena that are handled differently in the PDT ap-proach than in the school approach.
The data an-notated tectogrammatically has to be taken into ac-count to process these phenomena properly.
Giventhat, the data annotated on all three layers (0.8 mil-lion words in 49,442 sentences) become the candi-date set of sentences from which the exercise bookis to be composed.Unfortunately, the sentences from the candidateset cannot be merely taken as they are because oftwo factors:?
the complexity of sentences in the PDT goes38beyond the complexity of sentences in text-books;?
some syntactic phenomena are handled differ-ently in the PDT approach than in the schoolapproach.This means that some of the sentences have tobe completely discarded (sentence filtering, see 4.1)and syntactic trees of the remaining sentences haveto be transformed to match the school analysis ofsyntax (see 4.2).
Luckily, the school approach tothe morphology does not coincide with the PDT ap-proach.
Therefore the PDT morphological annota-tions do not need any special handling.
It is impos-sible to browse the candidate set of sentences man-ually with regard to its volume.
Both sentence fil-tering and annotation transformation must be doneautomatically.
The whole process is shown in Fig-ure 3.To summarize, our work on the electronic ex-ercise book covers the data and the softwarecomponents ((Hladka?, Kuc?era, 2005), (Kuc?era,2006), (STYX, 2008)):?
Annotated Sentence Database Almost 12,000annotated sentences generated by the FilterSen-tences component.?
FilterSentences.
A component used to preparethe annotated sentence database suitable for us-age in the exercise book.
The end user willnever have to use this.?
Charon.
An administrative tool, used for view-ing all of the available sentences and for com-posing the exercises.
We assume that mostlyteachers will use it.?
Styx.
The electronic exercise book itself.
It usesthe exercises composed with Charon.
An ac-tive sentence is analyzed both morphologicallyand syntactically as shown in Figure 4.
Dur-ing the morphological analysis, the user movesword by word, and for each word selects its partof speech.
According to the selected part ofspeech, the combo boxes for the relevant mor-phological categories appear and let the userchoose one of several choices they considerthe proper one.
During the syntactic analy-sis, the user moves nodes using the traditionaldrag and drop method to catch the dependent-governor relation.
Afterwards, the syntacticfunctions are assigned, technically via pop-upmenus.
Once the analyses are finished, the cor-rect answers are provided separately for mor-phology and syntax.4.1 Sentence filteringThe candidate set consists of many sentences that arenot appropriate for schoolchildren to analyze.
Theycontain phenomena that authors of textbooks eitherdo not consider at all or sometimes do not agreeupon.
The following seven filtering criteria havebeen formulated to exclude problematic sentences.For each filter, we provide a brief description.1.
SimpleSentences.
The most complex filter thatexcludes compound and complex sentences.2.
GraphicalSymbols.
Excludes sentences withvarious graphical symbols (except for the dotsign) because they imply more complex phe-nomena than the school analyses operate with.3.
EllipsisApposition.
Excludes sentences con-taining an ellipsis or an apposition.4.
OnePredicate.
Excludes sentences without apredicate (sentences with more than one predi-cate are already excluded by SimpleSentences).5.
LessThanNWords.
Excludes sentences that aretoo long.6.
MoreThanNWords.
Excludes sentences that aretoo short (usually simple headlines).7.
AuxO.
Excludes sentences containing emotio-nal, rhythmic particles carrying the AuxO syn-tactic function.The filters were applied in the same order as theyare listed above.
First the filter SimpleSentences wasapplied on the candidate set of sentences.
Then thesentences preserved by this filter were filtered byGraphicalSymbols, and so on.
Table 1 provides anoverall quantitative overview of sentence filtering ?for illustration, the most complex filter SimpleSen-tences excluded the highest percentage of sentences39Figure 3: Exercise book composition(54.4%).
As it is highlighted in the last row of thetable, almost 12,000 sentences were preserved afterprocessing the candidate set with all the filters.Filter # input # preservedsentences sentences (%)SimpleSentence 49,442 22,552 (45.6)GraphicalSymbols 22,552 20,384 (90.4)EllipsisAposition 20,383 13,633 (66.9)OnePredicate 13,633 13,617 (99.9)LessThanNWords 13,617 13,010 (95.5)MoreThanNWords 13,010 11,718 (90.1)AuxO 11,718 11,705 (99.9)overall 49,442 11,718 (23.7)Table 1: Quantitative overview of sentence filtering4.2 Annotation transformationIn the school approach, a sentence is represented asa tree-like structure with labeled nodes.
Unlike PDTsyntactic trees, the structures of the school approachhave no root node or, in another point of view havetwo roots: a subject and a predicate (see Figure 5 ?rozd?
?l, byl hrazen respectively).Besides the above-mentioned difference in analy-sis schemes, the PDT and the school approach differin the following aspects:?
Many of the PDT syntactic functions do nothave counterparts in the school approach.?
The school approach does not have the direct1:1 correspondence between nodes of the mor-phological layer and the syntactic layer, i. e.a node can contain more than just one wordas visible in Figure 5 ?
the pair of words byl,hrazen form one node as well as the pair z,dotac??.
The words inside each node are listedin accordance to the surface word order of thesentence.With regards to the discussed differences, we sys-tematically went through the PDT annotation guide-lines (Hajic?ova?, Kirschner and Sgall, 1999), ana-lyzed all specified phenomena and designed theirtransformations into the school analysis scheme.Three elementary operations on syntactic trees andthe rules mapping syntactic functions have been for-mulated.
Then a transformation is understood as asequence of these operations and mapping rules.1.
JoinTheParentNode The words at the node aremoved up to the parent node and all child nodesof the given node become the child nodes of theparent node.
The node is removed afterwards.40Figure 4: Styx?practicing2.
AbsorbTheChildNodes The words at all childnodes of the node are moved into the node.
Thechild nodes are removed and their child nodesbecome the child nodes of the node.
This op-eration is equivalent to the JoinTheParentNodeoperation applied to all child nodes of the node.3.
RemoveTheNode The node-leave is removed.Mapping PDT syntactic functions follows theseoperations on trees.
Given the complexity of syn-tactic phenomena and the differences between theapproaches, it is not possible to map all functionsin a straightforward way as is evident from Table 2.While the school approach works with seven syn-tactic functions (listed in the second column) thePDT approach labels with 25 functions1 (listed inthe first column).
The PDT functions indicating thesubject, the predicate, the attribute and the adver-bial (in italics) are simply mapped to their schoolcounterparts.
The other functions are changed intothe school functions in accordance with the type ofoperation the nodes they belong to pass.
After theAbsorbTheChildNodes operation, the node is mostlylabeled by the direct school counterpart of its ?mostimportant child node?, i.e.
the child node bearingone of the simply-mapped functions, vaguely noted.After the JoinTheParentNode operation, the parent1The total number of the PDT syntactic functions is actuallyhigher.
Here we list those functions that appear in sentencesincluded in the exercise book.node does not change its function in most cases.PDT school descriptionsyntactic syntacticfunctions functionsPred Pr?s predicatePnom Pr?j predicatenominalSb Po subjectObj Pt objectAtr, AtrAdv, AdvAtr, Pk attributeAtrAtr, AtrObj,ObjAtrAdv, Atv, AtvV Pu adverbialObj D complementCoord ?
coordinationAuxC, AuxP, AuxZ, ?
auxiliaryAuxO, AuxV, AuxR, sentenceAuxY, AuxK, AuxX, membersAuxGTable 2: School vs. PDT syntactic functionsFor illustration, a PDT syntactic tree in Figure 1is transformed into a school structure displayed inFigure 5.
Needed transformations include, for ex-ample.
merging the nodes (do, AuxP) and (ceny, Atr)into the node (do ceny, Pk) or similarly merging (byl,AuxV) and (hrazen, Pred) into (byl hrazen, Pr?s).4.3 EvaluationIt is always difficult to evaluate such systems.
It isimpossible to express the quality of our system with41Figure 5: A school syntactic tree of the sentence Rozd?
?ldo regulovane?
ceny byl hrazen z dotac?
?.numerical figures only.
The only number we canprovide presents the sentence count included in theexercise book: We believe that almost 12,000 sen-tences bring enormous diversity to the practicing ofmorphology and syntax.To find out the real value of our system, we pre-sented it to two different audiences.
First we pre-sented it to academics, who really appreciated theidea of corpus assimilation for morphology and syn-tax learning in schools.
Their discussions weremainly concerned with the transformation of anno-tations.Then we presented the exercise book duringCzech classes in secondary schools.
We found outthat both the teachers and the students were imme-diately able to use the system and they were excitedabout it.
They agreed that such exercises would be anice addition to their classes.
Given the experiencewe acquired during the presentations, we created asample class (a methodological guide) for teachers,and we collected some interesting ideas that mayhelp us improve the system.
These improvementsconcern i) the annotation transformations (1, 2, 3);ii) the variety of exercises (4); iii) the user interface(5):1.
We do not distinguish between the differenttypes of adverbials.
Thus we will provide thepossibility of marking a node as being a placeadverbial or time adverbial etc.2.
We do not distinguish concordant and discor-dant attributes yet.3.
Dealing with coordination needs revision, es-pecially when it comes to a difference betweendependents of the coordination as a whole anddependents of members of the coordination.4.
?
During the morphological analysis, theuser selects only the part of speech of thegiven word and STYX itself provides therelevant morphological categories to ana-lyze.
In this fashion, the exercises are toosimplistic.
To master the morphology, theuser must know which categories are rele-vant to the given part of speech.?
The Charon module will give the userthe option of selecting sentences that con-tain some specific phenomena.
Cur-rently, an administrator goes through allthe sentences ?manually?
and if they ful-fill her/his selection criteria, (s)he includesthem in the exercises.5.
The user interface has to be changed to be more?crazy,?
or dynamic, to attract not only the ?A?pupils but the rest of them as well.
Much morecomfortable controls, for example by addingkeyboard shortcuts for the most common ac-tions, will be offered too.5 ConclusionThe PDT-based exercise book has completed its ini-tial steps.
The theoretical aspects have been ana-lyzed, the system has been implemented and demon-strated to schoolchildren.
Their feedbacks motivatesus to improve the system in such a way that it willbecome a real educational tool.ReferencesHana Jir???
and Dan Zeman and Hana Hanova?
and JanHajic?
and Barbora Hladka?
and Emil Jer?a?bek.
2005.A Manual for Morphological Annotation, 2nd edition.U?FAL Technical Report 27, Prague, Czech Republic.Hajic?ova?
Eva and Zdene?k Kirschner and Petr Sgall.1999.
A Manual for Analytic Layer Annotation of thePrague Dependency Treebank (English translation).U?FAL Technical Report, Prague, Czech Republic.42Hladka?
Barbora and Ondr?ej Kuc?era.
2005.
Prague De-pendency Treebank as an exercise book of Czech.
InProceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Interactive Demon-strations, pp.
14-15.
Vancouver, British Columbia,Canada.Jer?a?bek Jaroslav and Jan Tupy?
2005.
The official frame-work educational programme for general secondaryeducation.
Research pedagogical institute, Prague.Keogh Katrina and Thomas Koller and Monica Ward andElaine U?
?Dhonnchadha and Josef van Genabith 2004.CL for CALL in the Primary School.
In Proceed-ings of the International Workshop in Association withCOLING 2004, Geneva, Switzerland.Kuc?era Ondr?ej.
2006.
Praz?sky?
za?vislostn??
korpus jakocvic?ebnice jazyka c?eske?ho.
Master thesis.
CharlesUniversity, Prague, Czech Republic.Mikulova?
Marie et al 2006.
A Manual for Tectogram-matic Layer Annotation of the Prague DependencyTreebank.
U?FAL Technical Report, Prague, CzechRepublic.Mukherjee, J.
2004.
Bridging the gap between ap-plied corpus linguistics and the reality of English lan-guage teaching in Germany.
In U. Connor and T. Up-ton (eds.)
Applied Corpus Linguistics: A Multidimen-sional Perspective.
Amsterdam: Rodopi, pp.
239-250.PDT 2.0 [online].
2006.
Prague Dependency Treebank,2nd edition.
http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.0Scott Mike and Christopher Tribble 2006.
Textual Pat-terns: keyword and corpus analysis in language edu-cation.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.Schultze Mathias 2003.
AI in CALL: Artficially Inatedor Almost Imminent?
In Proceedings of the World-CALL Conference, Banff, Canada.STYX [online].
2008.
The STYX electronic exercisebook of Czech http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/styxTerasoft, Ltd. 2003.
TS C?esky?
jazyk 2 - jazykove?
rozbory.http://www.terasoft.cz.Tribble Christopher 2001 Corpora and teaching: ad-justing the gaze.
In Proceedings of the ICAME 2001Conference, Louvain, Belgium.Wichmann Anne and Steven Fligelstone (eds.)
1997.Teaching and Language Corpora (Applied Linguisticsand Language London: Addison Wesley Longman.43
