Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (COGALEX 2008), pages 94?101Manchester, August 2008Cognitively Salient Relationsfor Multilingual LexicographyGerhard KremerCIMeCUniversity of Trentogerhard.kremer@unitn.itAndrea AbelEURACBolzanoaabel@eurac.eduMarco BaroniCIMeCUniversity of Trentomarco.baroni@unitn.itAbstractProviding sets of semantically relatedwords in the lexical entries of an electronicdictionary should help language learnersquickly understand the meaning of the tar-get words.
Relational information mightalso improve memorisation, by allowingthe generation of structured vocabularystudy lists.
However, an open issue iswhich semantic relations are cognitivelymost salient, and should therefore be usedfor dictionary construction.
In this paper,we present a concept description elicita-tion experiment conducted with Germanand Italian speakers.
The analysis of theexperimental data suggests that there is asmall set of concept-class?dependent rela-tion types that are stable across languagesand robust enough to allow discriminationacross broad concept domains.
Our furtherresearch will focus on harvesting instantia-tions of these classes from corpora.1 IntroductionIn electronic dictionaries, lexical entries can beenriched with hyperlinks to semantically relatedwords.
In particular, we focus here on those re-lated words that can be seen as systematic prop-erties of the target entry, i. e., the basic conceptsthat would be used to define the entry in relation toits superordinate category and coordinate concepts.So, for example, for animals the most salient rela-tions would be notions such as ?parts?
and ?typicalc?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported license(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Somerights reserved.behaviour?.
For a horse, salient properties will in-clude the mane and hooves as parts, and neighingas behaviour.Sets of relevant and salient properties allow theuser to collocate a word within its so-called ?wordfield?
and to distinguish it more clearly from neigh-bour concepts, since the meaning of a word isnot defined in isolation, but in contrast to relatedwords in its word field (Geckeler, 2002).
More-over, knowing the typical relations of concepts indifferent domains might help pedagogical lexicog-raphy to produce structured networks where, fromeach word, the learner can naturally access entriesfor other words that represent properties which aresalient and distinctive for the target concept class(parts of animals, functions of tools, etc.).
Weenvisage a natural application of this in the au-tomated creation of structured vocabulary studylists.
Finally, this knowledge might be used asa basis to populate lexical networks by buildingmodels of concepts in terms of ?relation sketches?based on salient typed properties (when an animalis added to our lexicon, we know that we will haveto search a corpus to extract its parts, behaviour,etc., whereas for a tool the function would be themost important property to mine).This paper provides a first step in the direction ofdictionaries enriched with cognitively salient prop-erty descriptions by eliciting concept descriptionsfrom subjects speaking different languages, andanalysing the general patterns emerging from thesedata.It is worth distinguishing our approach to enrich-ing connections in a lexical resource from the onebased on free association, such as has been recentlypursued, e. g., within the WordNet project (Boyd-Graber et al, 2006).
While we do not dispute theusefulness of free associates, they are irrelevant to94our purposes, since we want to generate system-atic, structured descriptions of concepts, in termsof the relation types that are most salient for theirsemantic fields.
Knowing that the word Hollandis ?evoked?
by the word tulip might be useful forother reasons, but it does not allow us to harvestsystematic properties of flowers in order to popu-late their relation sketch: we rather want to findout that tulips, being flowers, will have colour asa salient property type.
As a location property oftulips, we would prefer something like garden in-stead of the name of a country or individual asso-ciations.
To minimise free association, we askedparticipants in our experiments to produce conceptdescriptions in terms of characteristic propertiesof the target concepts (although we are not awareof systematic studies comparing free associates toconcept description tasks, the latter methodologyis fairly standard in cognitive science: see sec-tion 2.2 below).To our knowledge, this sort of approach hasnot been proposed in lexicography, yet.
Cognitivescientists focus on ?concepts?, glossing over thefact that what subjects will produce are (stringsof) words, and as such they will be, at least toa certain extent, language-dependent.
For lexico-graphic applications, this aspect cannot, of course,be ignored, in particular if the goal is to producelexical entries for language learners (so that boththeir first and their second languages should betaken into account).We face this issue directly in the elicitation ex-periment we present here, in which salient rela-tions for a set of 50 concepts from 10 differentcategories are collected from comparable groupsof German and Italian speakers.
In particular, wecollected data from high school students in SouthTyrol, a region situated in Northern Italy, inhabitedby both German and Italian speakers.
Both Ger-man and Italian schools exist, where the respectivenon-native language is taught.
It is important tostress that the two communities are relatively sep-arated, and most speakers are not from bilingualfamilies or bilingual social environments: Theystudy the other language as an intensively taughtL2 in school.
Thus, we move in an ideal sce-nario to test possible language-driven differencesin property descriptions, among speakers that havea very similar cultural background.South Tyrol also provides the concrete applica-tive goal of our project.
In public administrationand service, employees need to master both lan-guages up to a certain standardised level (they haveto pass a ?bilingual?
proficiency exam).
Therefore,there is a big need for language learning materi-als.
The practical outcome of our research will bean extension of ELDIT1, an electronic learner?s dic-tionary for German and Italian (Abel and Weber,2000).2 Related WorkLexicographic projects providing semantic rela-tions and experimental research on property gen-eration are the basis for our research.2.1 DictionariesIn most paper-based general and learners?
dictio-naries only some information about synonyms andsometimes antonyms is presented.
Newer dictio-naries, such as the ?Longman Language Activa-tor?
(Summers, 1999), are providing lists of relatedwords.
While these will be useful to learners, infor-mation about the kind of semantic relation is usu-ally missing.Semantic relations are often available in elec-tronic resources, most famously in WordNet (Fell-baum, 1998) and related projects like Kirrkirr(Jansz et al, 1999), ALEXIA (Chanier and Selva,1998), or as described in Fontenelle (1997).
How-ever, these resources tend to include few relationtypes (hypernymy, meronymy, antonymy, etc.
).The salience of the relations chosen is not veri-fied experimentally, and the same set of relationtypes is used for all words that share the same part-of-speech.
Our results below, as well as work byVinson et al (2008), indicate that different conceptclasses should, instead, be characterised by differ-ent relation types (e. g., function is very salient fortools, but not at all for animals).2.2 Work in Cognitive SciencesSeveral projects addressed the collection of prop-erty generation data to provide the communitywith feature norms to be used in different psy-cholinguistic experiments and other analyses: Gar-rard et al (2001) instructed subjects to completephrases (?concept is/has/can.
.
.
?
), thus restrictingthe set of producible feature types.
McRae etal.
(2005) instructed their subjects to list conceptproperties without such restrictions, but providingthem with some examples.
Vinson et al (2008)1URL http://www.eurac.edu/eldit95gave similar instructions, but explicitly asked sub-jects not to freely associate.However, these norms have been collected forthe English language.
It remains to be exploredif concept representations in general and seman-tic relations for our specific investigations have thesame properties across languages.3 Data CollectionAfter choosing the concept classes and appropri-ate concepts for the production experiment, con-cept descriptions were collected from participants.These were transcribed, normalised, and annotatedwith semantic relation types.3.1 StimuliThe stimuli for the experiment consisted of 50 con-crete concepts from 10 different classes (i. e., 5concepts for each of the classes): mammal (dog,horse, rabbit, bear, monkey), bird (seagull, spar-row, woodpecker, owl, goose), fruit (apple, orange,pear, pineapple, cherry), vegetable (corn, onion,spinach, peas, potato), body part (eye, finger, head,leg, hand), clothing (chemise, jacket, sweater,shoes, socks), manipulable tool (comb, broom,sword, paintbrush, tongs), vehicle (bus, ship, air-plane, train, truck), furniture (table, bed, chair,closet, armchair), and building (garage, bridge,skyscraper, church, tower).
They were mainlytaken from Garrard et al (2001) and McRae etal.
(2005).
The concepts were chosen so that theyhad unambiguous, reasonably monosemic lexicalrealizations in both target languages.The words representing these concepts weretranslated into the two target languages, Germanand Italian.
A statistical analysis (using Tukey?shonestly significant difference test as implementedin the R toolkit2) of word length distributions(within and across categories) showed no signif-icant differences in either language.
There wereinstead significant differences in the frequency oftarget words, as collected from the German, Italianand English WaCky corpora3.
In particular, wordsof the class body part had significantly larger fre-quencies across languages than the words of theother classes (not surprisingly, the words eye, headand hand appear much more often in corpora thanthe other words in the stimuli list).2URL http://www.r-project.org/3URL http://wacky.sslmit.unibo.it/3.2 Experimental ProcedureThe participants in the concept description exper-iment were students attending the last 3 years ofa German or Italian high school and reported tobe native speakers of the respective languages.
73German and 69 Italian students participated in theexperiment, with ages ranging between 15 and 19.The average age was 16.7 (standard deviation 0.92)for Germans and 16.8 (s.d.
0.70) for Italians.The experiment was conducted group-wise inschools.
Each participant was provided with a ran-dom set of 25 concepts, each presented on a sep-arate sheet of paper.
To have an equal number ofparticipants describing each concept, for each ran-domly matched subject pair the whole set of con-cepts was randomised and divided into 2 subsets.Each subject saw the target stimuli in his/her sub-set in a different random order (due to technicalproblems, the split was not always different acrosssubject pairs).Short instructions were provided orally beforethe experiment, and repeated in written format onthe front cover of the questionnaire booklet dis-tributed to each subject.
To make the concept de-scription task more natural, we suggested that par-ticipants should imagine a group of alien visitors,to each of which a particular word for a concreteobject was unknown and thus had to be described.Participants should assume that each alien visitorknew all other words of the language apart fromthe unknown (target) word.Participants were asked to enter a descriptivephrase per line (not necessarily a whole sentence)and to try and write at least 4 phrases per word.They were given a maximum of one minute perconcept, and they were not allowed to go back tothe previous pages.Before the real experiment, subjects were pre-sented an example concept (not in the target list)and were encouraged to describe it while askingclarifications about the task.All subjects returned the questionnaire so thatfor a concept we obtained, on average, descriptionsby 36.48 German subjects (s.d.
1.24) and 34.34Italian subjects (s.d.
1.72).3.3 Transcription and NormalisationThe collected data were digitally transcribed andresponses were manually checked to make surethat phrases denoting different properties had beenproperly split.
We tried to systematically apply the96criterion that, if at least one participant produced2 properties on separate lines, then the propertieswould always be split in the rest of the data set.However, this approach was not always equallyapplicable in both languages.
For example, Trans-portmittel (German) and mezzo di trasporto (Ital-ian) both are compounds used as hypernyms forwhat English speakers would probably rather clas-sify as vehicles.
In contrast to Transportmittel,mezzo di trasporto is splittable as mezzo, that canalso be used on its own to refer to a kind of vehi-cle (and is defined more specifically by adding thefact that it is used for transportation).
The Germancompound word also refers to the function of trans-portation, but -mittel has a rather general meaning,and would not be used alone to refer to a vehicle.Hence, Transportmittel was kept as a whole andthe Italian quasi-equivalent was split, possibly cre-ating a bias between the two data sets (if the Italianstring is split into mezzo and trasporto, these willbe later classified as hypernym and functional fea-tures, respectively; if the German word is not split,it will only receive one of these type labels).
Morein general, note that in German compounds arewritten as single orthographic words, whereas inItalian the equivalent concepts are often expressedby several words.
This could also create furtherbias in the data annotation and hence in the analy-sis.Data were then normalised and transcribed intoEnglish, before annotating the type of semantic re-lation.
Normalisation was done in accordance withMcRae et al (2005), using their feature norms asguidelines, and it included leaving habitual wordslike ?normally,?, ?often?, ?most?
etc.
out, as theyjust express the typicality of the concept descrip-tion, which is the implicit task.3.4 Mapping to Relation TypesNormalised and translated phrases were sub-sequently labelled for relation types followingMcRae et al?s criteria and using a subset of the se-mantic relation types described in Wu and Barsa-lou (2004): see section 4.1 below for the list ofrelations used in the current analysis.Trying to adapt the annotation style to that ofMcRae et al, we encountered some dubious cases.For example, in the McRae et al?s norms, carni-vore is classified as a hypernym, but eats meat asa behaviour, whereas they seem to us to convey es-sentially the same information.
In this case, wedecided to map both to eats meat (behaviour).Among other surprising choices, the normalisedphrase used for cargo is seen by McRae et al asa function, but used by passengers is classified asdenoting the participants in a situation.
In this case,we followed their policy.While we tried to be consistent in relation la-belling within and across languages, it is likelythat our own normalisation and type mapping alsoinclude a number of inconsistencies, and our re-sults must be interpreted by keeping this importantcaveat in mind.The average number of normalised phrases ob-tained for a concept presented is 5.24 (s.d.
1.82) forthe German participants and 4.96 (s.d.
1.86) for theItalian participants; in total, for a concept in our set,the following number of phrases was obtained onaverage: 191.28 (German, s.d.
25.96) and 170.42(Italian, s.d.
25.49).4 ResultsThe distribution of property types is analysed bothclass-independently and within each class (sepa-rately for German and Italian), and an unsuper-vised clustering analysis based on property typesis conducted.4.1 Distributional AnalysisWe first look at the issue of how comparable theGerman and Italian data are, starting with a checkof the overlap at the level of specific properties.There are 226 concept?property pairs that wereproduced by at least 10 German subjects; 260 pairswere produced by at least 10 Italians.
Among thesecommon pairs, 156 (i. e., 69% of the total Ger-man pairs, and 60% of the Italian pairs) are sharedacross the 2 languages.
This suggests that the twosets are quite similar, since the overlap of specificpairs is strongly affected by small differences innormalisation (e. g., has a fur, has fur and is hairycount as completely different properties).Of greater interest to us is to check to whatextent property types vary across languages andacross concept classes.
In order to focus on themain patterns emerging from the data, we limit ouranalysis to the 6 most common property types inthe whole data set (that are also the top 6 types inthe two languages separately), accounting for 69%of the overall responses.
These types are:?
category (Wu/Barsalou code: ch;?pear is a fruit?)97?
(external) part (WB code: ece;?dog has 4 legs?)?
(external) quality (WB code: ese;?apple is green?)?
behaviour (WB code: eb;?dog barks?)?
function (WB code: sf ;?broom is for sweeping?)?
location (WB code: sl;?skyscraper is found in cities?
)Figure 1 compares the distribution of propertytypes in the two languages via a mosaic plot(Meyer et al, 2006), where rectangles have areasproportional to observed frequencies in the corre-sponding cells.
The overall distribution is verysimilar.
The only significant differences pertain tocategory and location types: Both differences aresignificant at the level p < 0.0001, according to aPearson residual test (Zeileis et al, 2005).For the difference in location, no clear patternemerges from a qualitative analysis of German andItalian location properties.
Regarding the differ-ence in (superordinate) categories, we find, inter-estingly, a small set of more or less abstract hy-pernyms that are frequently produced by Italians,but never by Germans: construction (72), object(36), structure (16).
In the these cases, the Ital-ian translations have subtle shades of meaning thatmake them more likely to be used than their Ger-man counterparts.
For example, the Italian wordoggetto (?object?)
is used somewhat more con-cretely than the extremely abstract German wordObjekt (or English ?object?, for that matter) ?
inItalian, the word might carry more of an ?arti-fact, man-made item?
meaning.
At the same time,oggetto is less colloquial than German Sache, andthus more amenable to be entered in a written def-inition.
In addition, among others, the category ve-hicle was more frequent in the Italian than in theGerman data set (for which one reason could be thedifference between the German and Italian equiva-lents, which was discussed in section 3.3).
Differ-ences of this sort remind us that property elicita-tion is first and foremost a verbal task, and as suchit is constrained by language-specific usages.
It isleft to future research to test to what extent linguis-tic constraints also affect deeper conceptual repre-sentations (would Italians be faster than GermanstypelanguageItalianGermancategory part qualitybehaviour functionlocationFigure 1: Cross-language distribution of propertytypesat recognising superordinate properties of conceptswhen they are expressed non-verbally?
).Despite the differences we just discussed, themain trend emerging from figure 1 is one of es-sential agreement between the two languages, andindicates that, with some caveats, salient propertytypes may be cross-linguistically robust.
We, thus,turn to the issue of how such types are distributedacross concepts of different classes.
This questionis visually answered by the association plots in fig-ure 2 on the following page.Each plot illustrates, through rectangle heights,how much each cell deviates from the value ex-pected given the overall contingency tables (inour case, the reference contingency tables are thelanguage-specific distributions of figure 1).
Thesign of the deviation is coded by direction with re-spect to the baseline.
For example, the first rowof the left plot tells us, among other things, thatin German behaviour properties are strongly over-represented in mammals, whereas function proper-ties are under-represented within this class.
Like infigure 1, shades of grey cue degrees of significanceof the deviation (Meyer et al, 2003).The first observation we can make about figure 2is how, for both languages, a large proportion ofcells show a significant departure from the overalldistribution.
This confirms what has already beenobserved and reported in the literature on Englishnorms ?
see, in particular, Vinson et.
al.
(2008):98Germantypeclassbuildingfurniturevehicletoolclothingbodyvegetablefruitbirdmammalcategory part qualitybehaviourfunction locationItaliantypeclassbuildingfurniturevehicletoolclothingbodyvegetablefruitbirdmammalcategory part qualitybehaviourfunction locationFigure 2: Distribution of property types across classesproperty types are highly distinctive characteristicsof concept classes.The class-specific distributions are extremelysimilar in German and Italian.
There is no sin-gle case in which the same cell is deviating sig-nificantly but in opposite directions in the two lan-guages; and the most common pattern by far is theone in which the two languages show the same de-viation profile across cells, often with very simi-lar effect sizes (compare, e. g., the behaviour andfunction columns).
These results suggest that prop-erty types are not much affected by linguistic fac-tors, an intrinsically interesting finding that alsosupports our idea of structuring relation-based nav-igation in a multi-lingual dictionary using concept-class?specific property types.The type patterns associated with specific con-cept classes are not particularly surprising, andthey have been already observed in previous stud-ies (Vinson and Vigliocco, 2008; Baroni and Lenci,2008).
In particular, living things (animals andplants) are characterised by paucity of functionalfeatures, that instead characterise all man-madeconcepts.
Within the living things, animals arecharacterised by typical behaviours (they bark, fly,etc.)
and, to a lesser extent, parts (they have legs,wings, etc.
), whereas plants are characterised bya wealth of qualities (they are sweet, yellow, etc.
)Differences are less pronounced within man-madeobjects, but we can observe parts as typical oftool and furniture descriptions.
Finally, location isa more typical definitional characteristic of build-ings (for clothing, nothing stands out, if not, per-haps, the pronounced lack of association with typ-ical locations).
Body parts, interestingly, have atype profile that is very similar to the one of (ma-nipulable) tools ?
manipulable objects are, after all,extensions of our bodies.4.2 Clustering by Property TypesThe distributional analysis presented in the previ-ous section confirmed our main hypotheses ?
thatproperty types are salient properties of conceptsthat differ from a concept class to the other, but arerobust across languages.
However, we did not takeskewing effects associated to specific concepts intoaccount (e. g., it could be that, say, the propertyprofile we observe for body parts in figure 2 isreally a deceiving average of completely oppo-site patterns associated to, say, heads and hands).Moreover, our analysis already assumed a divisioninto classes ?
but the type patterns, e. g., of mam-mals and birds are very similar, suggesting that ahigher-level ?animal?
class would be more appro-priate when structuring concepts in terms of typeprofiles.
We tackled both issues in an unsupervisedclustering analysis of our 50 target concepts basedon their property types.
If the postulated classesare not internally coherent, they will not form co-herent clusters.
If some classes should be merged,they will cluster together.Concepts were represented as 6-dimensionalvectors, with each dimension corresponding to one99of the 6 common types discussed above, and thevalue on a dimension given by the number of timesthat concept triggered a response of the relevanttype.
We used the CLUTO toolkit4, selecting therbr method and setting all other clustering param-eters to their default values.
We explored partitionsinto 2 to 10 clusters, manually evaluating the out-put of each solution.Both in Italian and in German, the best resultswere obtained with a 3-way partition, neatly cor-responding to the division into animals (mammalsand birds), plants (vegetables and fruits) and ob-jects plus body parts (that, as we observed above,have a distribution of types very similar to the oneof tools).
The 2-way solution resulted in mergingtwo of the classes animals and plants both in Ger-man and in Italian.
The 4-way solution led to anarbitrary partition among objects and body parts(and not, as one could have expected, in separat-ing objects from body parts).
Similarly, the 5-to 10-way solutions involve increasingly granularbut still arbitrary partitions within the objects/bodyparts class.
However, one notable aspect is that inmost cases almost all concepts of mammals andbirds, and vegetables and fruits are clustered to-gether (both in German and Italian), expressingtheir strong similarity in terms of property typesas compared to the other classes as defined here.Looking at the 3-way solution in more detail,in Italian, the concept horse is in the same clus-ter with objects and body parts (as opposed to Ger-man, where the solution is perfect).
The misclassi-fication results mainly from the fact that for horsea lot of functional properties were obtained (whichis a feature of objects), but none of them for theother animals in the Italian data.
In German, somefunctional properties were assigned to both horseand dog, which might explain why it was not mis-classified there.To conclude, the type profiles associated withanimals, vegetables and objects/body parts haveenough internal coherence that they robustly iden-tify these macro-classes in both languages.
Inter-estingly, a 3-way distinction of this sort ?
exclud-ing body parts ?
is seen as fundamental on the ba-sis of neuro-cognitive data by Caramazza and Shel-ton (1998).
On the other hand, we did not findevidence that more granular distinctions could bemade based on the few (6) and very general types4URL http://glaros.dtc.umn.edu/gkhome/cluto/cluto/overviewwe used.
We plan to explore the distribution acrossthe remaining types in the future (preliminary clus-tering experiments show that much more nuanceddiscriminations, even among all 10 categories, canbe made if we use all types).
However, for our ap-plied purposes, it is sensible to focus on relativelycoarse but well-defined classes, and on just a fewcommon relation types (alternatively, we plan tocombine types into superordinate ones, e. g. exter-nal and internal quality).
This should simplify boththe automatic harvesting of corpus-based proper-ties of the target types and the structuring of thedictionary relational interface.Finally, the peculiar object-like behaviour ofbody parts on the one hand, and the special na-ture of horse, on the other, should remind us ofhow concept classification is not a trivial task, oncewe try to go beyond the most obvious categoriestypically studied by cognitive scientists ?
animals,plants, manipulable tools.
In a lexicographic per-spective, this problem cannot be avoided, and, in-deed, the proposed approach should scale in diffi-cultiese to even trickier domains, such as those ofactions or emotions.5 ConclusionThis research is part of a project that aims to inves-tigate the cognitive salience of semantic relationsfor (pedagogical) lexicographic purposes.
The re-sulting most salient relations are to be used for re-vising and adding to the word field entries of a mul-tilingual electronic dictionary in a language learn-ing environment.We presented a multi-lingual concept descrip-tion experiment.
Participants produced differ-ent semantic relation type patterns across conceptclasses.
Moreover, these patterns were robustacross the two native languages studied in the ex-periment ?
even though a closer look at the datasuggested that linguistic constraints might affect(verbalisations of) conceptual representations (andthus, to a certain extent, which properties are pro-duced).
This is a promising result to be used for au-tomatically harvesting semantically related wordsfor a given lexical entry of a concept class.However, the granularity of concept classes hasto be defined.
In addition, to yield a larger numberof usable data for the analysis, a re-mapping of therare semantic relation types occurring in the actualdata set should be conducted.
Moreover, the stim-uli set will have to be expanded to include, e. g., ab-100stract concepts ?
although we hope to mine someabstract concept classes on the basis of the proper-ties of our concept set (colours, for example, couldbe characterised by the concrete objects of whichthey are typical).To complement the production experiment re-sults, we aim to conduct an experiment which in-vestigates the perceptual salience of the producedsemantic relations (and possibly additional ones),in order to detect inconsistencies between genera-tion and retrieval of salient properties.
If, as wehope, we will find that essentially the same proper-ties are salient for each class across languages andboth in production and perception, we will thenhave a pretty strong argument to suggest that theseare the relations one should focus on when popu-lating multi-lingual dictionaries.Of course, the ultimate test of our approach willcome from empirical evidence of the usefulness ofour relation links to the language learner.
This is,however, beyond the scope of the current project.References[Abel and Weber2000] Abel, Andrea and Vanessa We-ber.
2000.
ELDIT?A Prototype of an InnovativeDictionary.
In Heid, Ulrich, Stefan Evert, EgbertLehmann, and Christian Rohrer, editors, EURALEXProceedings, volume 2, pages 807?818, Stuttgart.
[Baroni and Lenci2008] Baroni, Marco and AlessandroLenci.
2008.
Concepts and Properties in WordSpaces.
Italian Journal of Linguistics.
To appear.
[Boyd-Graber et al2006] Boyd-Graber, Jordan, Chris-taine Fellbaum, Daniel Osherson, and RobertSchapire.
2006.
Adding Dense, Weighted Connec-tions to WordNet.
In Proceedings of the Thirds Inter-national WordNet Conference.
Masaryk UniversityBrno.
[Caramazza and Shelton1998] Caramazza, Alfonso andJennifer R. Shelton.
1998.
Domain?Specific Knowl-edge Systems in the Brain: The Animate?InanimateDistinction.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience,10:1?34.
[Chanier and Selva1998] Chanier, Thierry and ThierrySelva.
1998.
The ALEXIA system: The Use of Vi-sual Representations to Enhance Vocabulary Learn-ing.
In Computer Assisted Language Learning, vol-ume 11, pages 489?522.
[Fellbaum1998] Fellbaum, Christiane, editor.
1998.WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database.
Lan-guage, Speech, and Communication.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.
[Fontenelle1997] Fontenelle, Thierry.
1997.
Using aBilingual Dictionary to Create Semantic Networks.International Journal of Lexicography, 10(4):275?303.
[Garrard et al2001] Garrard, Peter, Matthew A. Lam-bon Ralph, John R. Hodges, and Karalyn Patterson.2001.
Prototypicality, Distinctiveness, and Intercor-relation: Analyses of the Semantic Attributes of Liv-ing and Nonliving Concepts.
Cognitive Neuropsy-chology, 18(2):125?174.
[Geckeler2002] Geckeler, Horst.
2002.
Anfa?nge undAusbau des Wortfeldgedankens.
In Cruse, D. Alan,Franz Hundsnurscher, Michael Job, and Peter RolfLutzeier, editors, Lexikologie.
Ein internationalesHandbuch zur Natur und Struktur von Wo?rtern undWortscha?tzen, volume 21 of Handbu?cher zur Sprach-und Kommunikationswissenschaft, pages 713?728.de Gruyter, Berlin ?
New York.
[Jansz et al1999] Jansz, Kevin, Christopher Manning,and Nitin Indurkha.
1999.
Kirrkirr: Interactive Visu-alisation and Multimedia From a Structured WarlpiriDictionary.
In Proceedings of the 5th AustralianWorld Wide Web Conference (AusWeb?99), pages302?316.
[McRae et al2005] McRae, Ken, George S. Cree,Mark S. Seidenberg, and Chris McNorgan.
2005.Semantic Feature Production Norms for a LargeSet of Living and Nonliving Things.
Be-haviour Research Methods, Instruments & Comput-ers, 37(4):547?559.
[Meyer et al2003] Meyer, David, Achim Zeileis, andKurt Hornik.
2003.
Visualizing Independence UsingExtended Association Plots.
In Proceedings of DSC2003.
Online at URL http://www.ci.tuwien.ac.at/Conferences/DSC-2003/.
[Meyer et al2006] Meyer, David, Achim Zeileis, andKurt Hornik.
2006.
The Strucplot Framework: Vi-sualizing Multi?Way Contingency Tables With vcd.Journal of Statistical Software, 17(3):1?48.
[Summers1999] Summers, Della, editor.
1999.
Long-man Language Activator.
The World?s First Produc-tion Dictionary.
Longman, Harlow.
[Vinson and Vigliocco2008] Vinson, David P. andGabriella Vigliocco.
2008.
Semantic Feature Pro-duction Norms for a Large Set of Objects and Events.Behaviour Research Methods, 40(1):183?190.
[Wu and Barsalou2004] Wu, Ling?ling andLawrence W. Barsalou.
2004.
Grounding Con-cepts in Perceptual Simulation: I.
Evidence FromProperty Generation.
Unpublished manuscript.
[Zeileis et al2005] Zeileis, Achim, David Meyer, andKurt Hornik.
2005.
Residual?Based Shadings forVisualizing (Conditional) Independence.
TechnicalReport 20, Department of Statistics and Mathemat-ics, Wirtschaftsuniversita?t, Vienna.101
