Representing and VisualizingCalendar Expressions in TextsDelphine BattistelliUniv.
Paris-Sorbonne (France)email: Delphine.Battistelli@paris-sorbonne.frJavier CoutoINCO, FING, UdelaR (Uruguay)email: jcouto@fing.edu.uyJean-Luc MinelMoDyCo, CNRS-Univ.
ParisX (France)email: Jean-Luc.Minel@u-paris10.frSylviane R. SchwerLIPN, CNRS-Univ.
ParisXIII (France)email: Sylviane.Schwer@lipn.univ-paris13.frAbstractTemporal expressions that refer to a part of a calendar area in terms ofcommon calendar divisions are studied.
Our claim is that such a ?cal-endar expression" (CE) can be described by a succession of operatorsoperating on a calendar base (CB).
These operators are categorized: apointing operator that transform a CB into a CE; a focalizing/shifting op-erator that reduces or shifts the CE into another CE, and finally a zoningoperator that provides the wanted CE from this last CE.
Relying on theseoperators, a set of annotations is presented which are used to automat-ically annotate biographic texts.
A software application, plugged in theplatformNavitext, is described that builds a calendar view of a biographictext.365366 Battistelli, Couto, Minel, and Schwer1 IntroductionTaking into account temporality expressed in texts appears as fundamental, not onlyin a perspective of global processing of documents, but also in the analysis of thestructure of a document.1 The analysis of temporality within texts has been studiedprincipally by considering verbal times (e.g.
Song and Cohen (1991); Hitzeman et al(1995) and temporal adverbials (see below).Our approach is focused on temporal adverbials ?
in French ?
that refer directlyto text units concerning common calendar divisions, that we name ?calendar expres-sions?
(CEs for short).
Several analyses of this kind of expressions has generateda lot of interest, ranging from their automatic recognition and annotation in texts totheir analysis in terms of discursive frames (Charolles, 1997; Tannen, 1997), followingwork of Halliday (1994) which put the emphasis on the importance of the temporaladverbial expressions as modes of discursive organization.Nowadays, in the field of temporality processing, automatic identification and an-notation tasks of CEs are the most developed, mainly because identifying and anno-tating expressions which contain calendar units are considered?
a priori ?
as trivialtasks.
Those tasks have been particularly explored in three contexts:1.
Systems which aim to set events on a time scale depending on their durationand according to a hierarchy of unities called granularities (Schilder and Habel,2001);2.
Systems for summarizing multi-documents (Barzilay et al, 2001); and3.
QA systems (Pustejovsky et al, 1993; Harabagiu and Bejan, 2005).Please note that the proposition of the well-known standard temporalmeta-languagenamed TimeML (Pustejovsky et al, 2003) initially took place in the context of a QAsystems worshop (Pustejovsky, 2002), and mainly integrates two schemes of annota-tions ?
namely TIDES TIMEX2 (Ferro et al, 2004) and Sheffield STAG (Setzer andGaizauskas, 2000) ?
which were essentially put forward from the analysis of CEs.In this paper, we propose a formal description of CEs in written French texts, by ex-plicitly distinguishing several classes of linguistic markers which must be interpretedas successive operators.
This work is driven in order to propose a set of fine andwell-defined annotations which will be used to navigate temporally in an annotateddocument.
Our approach differs from the preceding ones in two crucial ways:?
Our goal is not to link a CE to an event, neither to fix it on a ?temporal line",using a set of values relying on ISO 8601 standard format (Mani and Wilson,2000; Setzer and Gaizauskas, 2000; Filatova and Hovy, 2001); instead our goalis to link CEs between themselves, that is to say to establish their qualitativerelative positions (the set of those relations is named ?proper text calendar?);?
We design CE semantics as algebraic expressions.1This research is funded with an ANR grant (Projet Blanc Conique).Representing and Visualizing Calendar Expressions in Texts 367The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
In the next section, we in-troduce an algebra of CEs.
In Section 3 we describe a software application, whichexploits functional representation, built with previous way exhibited operators andplugged in the NaviTexte platform, aiming to support text reading.
Finally, conclu-sions and future research directions are presented in Section 4.2 An Algebra for Calendar ExpressionsWe postulate that a CE, say E , used to refer to a calendar area can be described by asuccession of operators applied on an argument, named calendar base (CB), say B,that bears a granulariry and a value for anchoring allowing fixing it in the calendarsystem used and that gives access at the calendar area described by the CE.Each operator gives a piece of the processing following a specific order: on B isapplied a pointing operation, usually expressed by a determinant, whose result is anCE, E1 part of E .
On E1 is applied a second kind of operator expressing the usefulpart of this base (all, the beginning, the middle, the end, a fuzzy area around) given asresult a new CE E2 which is part of E and is associated with a piece of the calendarthat cuts the time line in three areas (illustrated by Figure 1):?
the former half-line (A),?
the Useful portion (U),?
posterior half-line (P)2.The useful part can also be obtained either by shifting, like in ?trois semaines plustard" (three weeks later), or by zooming, as in ?l?automne de cette ann?e l?"
(the au-tumn of this present year).3 A third kind of operator gives access at the area describedby the complete CE E: selecting one of the three portioned areas, like in ?jusqu?enavril 2006" (until April 2006).Figure 1: Partition of the time line for a unary CEThe order of operators is the following: a pointing operator OpPointing, followedby one or more focalising or shifting operatorsOpFocalising/Shi f ting+ and finally atleast one zoning operator OpZoning?.4 Some operators can be omitted, usually when2This Time line is pragmatically limited bounded.
For instance, (P) can be naturally limited by thepresent moment, as we do in Figure 1.3For such deictic CEs, the CB has the granularity year, and the value current.4Usually one, but we also can find two zoning operators, for instance in ?jusqu??
avant No?l (until beforeChristmas").
In this case, the order of the operators is more constraint than the order of Focalising/Shiftingoperators.
Therefore we use the ?
symbol instead of +368 Battistelli, Couto, Minel, and Schwerthey do not provide any new information.
In sum, the representation of CEs has thefollowing generic form: OpZoning?
(OpFocalising/Shi f ting+(OpPoin-ting(CB)).For instance, let us analyse the CE E=?Avant le d?but de la fin de l?ann?e 2008"(before the beginning of the end of the year 2008).
B=?ann?e 2008".
Firstly, theoperator of pointing, triggered by the identification of ?l?"
(the contraction of ?le")is applied, given E1=L?ann?e 2008".5 Secondly, two operators of focalising/shiftingare applied successively: the first one triggered by ?la fin de" , provides E ?2 and thesecond one, triggered by ?le d?but de", provides E2.
Finally an operator of zoning isassociated with ?avant", provided E .
Consequently, the CE ?avant le d?but de la finde l?ann?e 2008" is produced as avant (le d?but de (la fin de(l?
(ann?e 2008)))).
Thesequence of this CE is depicted and visualized in Figure 2.Figure 2: Computation of ?avant le d?but de la fin de l?ann?e 2008"Each operator is characterized by its arity (the number of its arguments) and type.With regard to arity, in this paper we focus on unary operators.2.1 Unary operatorsThree types of operators have been defined: pointing, focalising/shifting and zoning.The pointing operator is trivial (it transforms B into a CE of type E1) but the twoothers need some refinements.Focalising/Shifting operatorsFocalising/Shifting operators transform a CE of type E1 into a CE of type E2.
Severalkinds of focalising/shifting time may be expressed.
For instance, in the expression ?aud?but de mai 2005" (at the beginning of may 2005) the focalising/shifting is localisedinside the BC (mai 2005), whereas in the expression ?trois semaines avant mai 2005"(three weeks before may 2005) it is outside the BC.
Consequently, six sub-operatorshave been identified and are shown Table 1.
It should be noted that ShiftingBeginningand ShiftingAfter operators refers to a family of operators, because for these ones it isnecessary to precise two parameters, the granularity and the value of the shifting.For some reasons of implementation, except for the operator IdShifting, whichrefers at the identity, all others operators are treated as idempotent.
In other words, weconsider as equivalent these two expressions ?au d?but du d?but des ann?es 1980" (atthe beginning of the early eighties) and ?au d?but des ann?es 1980?
(in the early ofeighties).
The next version will improve at this point.Zoning operatorsA Zoning operator transforms a CE of type E2, associated to the useful portion U ofFigure 1, into the CE E analysed.
A Zoning operator refers to one of the six possible5This pointing operator, as mentioned previously, is not an operator of the CE algebra, but all the otheroperators are part of the CE algebra.Representing and Visualizing Calendar Expressions in Texts 369Table 1: Focalising/Shifting operatorsOperators ExamplesIdShifting ?
en 1945?
au mois d?ao?tZoomBeginning ?
?
l?aube des ann?es 1980?
au d?but de mai 1945ZoomMiddle ?
au milieu des ann?es 1980ZoomEnding ?
?
la fin des ann?es 1980ShiftingBefore (granularity, -n) ?
10 jours avant le 14 juillet 2005ShiftingAfter (granularity, +n) ?
10 jours apr?s le 14 juillet 2005zones6 built from A, P and U: that is A, A+U, U, U+P, P, A+P.
These six kinds ofzoning are associated with a set of prepositions, whose prototypes are shown Table 2.Fuzzy expressions like ?peu avant?
(short before) can double this number.
Table 2also illustrates the the ZoningAbout operator <U>.
Further, note that ZoningId is notexpressed, but has to be taken into account.Table 2: Zoning operatorsOperators ExpressionZoningBefore [A] avant fin avril 2008ZoningUntil [A+U] jusqu??
fin avril 2008ZoningId [U] [ /0] fin avril 2008ZoningAbout <U> vers la fin avril 2008ZoningSince [U+P] depuis la fin avril 2008ZoningAfter [P] apr?s fin avril 2008ZoningApart [A+P] except?
fin avril 20082.2 N-ary or sequence operatorsAs mentioned before, it is necessary to use several N-ary operators to represent someCE.
For instance, a binary operator is used for representing an expression like ?entrefin mai 2005 et avril 2006" (between the end of may 2005 and april 2006).
This oper-ator, Between, applies to two CEs, so for the preceding expression the representationis Between ((ZoomEnding(Pointing(may 2005), Pointing(april 2006)).
Moreover, asequence operator is needed to represent a CE like ?le mardi 21, le mercredi 22 et levendredi 24 mai 1980" (on Tuesday 21, Wednesday 22 and Friday 24 of May).
Thestudy of these operators, associated with even more complex CEs with quantifications,is currently under investigation.6The empty zone, expressed by ?jamais?
(never) and the full zone, that is A+U+P, expressed by ?tou-jours?
(always) are CE, but not associated with unary operators associated to a BC, as defined here, henceexcluded of our precedent study.370 Battistelli, Couto, Minel, and Schwer3 ApplicationMany applications which exploit temporal expressions in texts, in particular in the areaof information extraction, have been implemented (Pazienza, 1999).
Our applicationis plugged into the textual navigation workstation NaviTexte (Couto, 2006; Couto andMinel, 2007), in order to combine a traditional linear reading with a chronologicalone.
With this intention, we have undertaken the construction of a computerized aidedreading of biographies.
Consequently, we have addressed two issues.
First, identifyingtemporal expressions and ordering chronologically text segments in which they areincluded.
Second, building calendar views of the text and navigating through theseviews.3.1 Identifying and ordering calendar expressionsFrom the linguistic study presented above, we have defined a set of annotations whichare used to automatically annotate biographic texts.
This process is carried out bytransducers which put XML7 annotations through the processed text.
These annota-tions describe on the one hand, the granularity of CEs, and on the other hand, thekind of identified operator.
For instance, the following XML code illustrates how thetemporal expression ?avant le d?but de la fin de l?ann?e 2008" (Before the beginningof the end of the year 2008) will be annotated:<UT Type="Expression Calendaire" Nro="7"><Annotation Nom="Grain">Annee</Annotation><Annotation Nom="Annee">2008</Annotation><Annotation Nom="RelationCalendrier">Absolue</Annotation><Annotation Nom="OpTempR?O?gion1">Avant</Annotation><Annotation Nom="OpTempD?O?placement1">FocalFin</Annotation><Annotation Nom="OpTempD?O?placement2">FocalDebut</Annotation><Chaine>avant le debut de la fin de l?annee 2008</Chaine></UT>From these annotations, an automatic ordering relying on values of CEs can becarried out.
A first implementation took only into account disjoined CEs, because theyare linearly ordered.
Intersecting CEs, like ?En juin 2007 (.
.
. )
en ?t?
2007" (in June2007 (.
.
. )
in summer 2007) requires a more powerful formalism.
A formalism relyingboth on S-Languages (Schwer, 2002b) and granules (Schwer, 2002a) is required toprovide a full automatic ordering.3.2 Building a text calendar viewA new kind of view, a calendar one, has been built in the NaviTexte platform.
Thisview is built from texts which contain CEs annotated as described above.
An exampleis shown in Figure 3.
Conceptually, a calendar view is a graph coordinated with a two-dimensional grid.
In the left part of the view, lexical chains of various occurrencesof CEs in the text are displayed.
By default, those are ordered according to theirorder of appearance in the text, but it is possible to display a chronological order,7A DTD is defined in Couto (2006)Representing and Visualizing Calendar Expressions in Texts 371by using options offered in the panel located in bottom of the view.
Nodes in thegraph represent these lexical chains.
The visual representation of a CE depends of thefunctional representation computed as described before Figure 2.A simple CE, with only a pointing operator like in ?l?ann?e 2008" (the year 2008)is always visualised like a white ellipse.
An operator of focalising/Shifting like ?la finde" (the end of) selects an area of the ellipse and blackens it.
Finally, a zoning operatorlike ?avant" (before) is visualised by a bold line displaying the area that is referred to.The plug-in is implemented with the JGaph package and we largely use some ofits functionalities, like zooming or the partial layout cache.
We also use html tooltiptext in Swing to contextualise a CE in the original text.
For example, in Figure 3,the whole paragraph which contains the CE ?en 1953?
(in 1953) is displayed and theoccurrence of a CE is highlighted.3.3 EvaluationTwo kinds of evaluation could be performed on this work: (i) evaluation of automaticrecognition and semantic annotation of CEs in text, (ii) evaluation of the calendarview.
The former calls for a classical protocol in NLP, whereas the latter is morecomplex to carry out.So far, only recognition has been carried out by Teissedre (2007) who computedrecall and precision on three kinds of corpora.
Due to the fact that an annotation ismade up of several fields the recall has been computed like this: a score zero whena CE is not identified, a score 1 when the identification is total, and 0.5 when theidentification is partial.
Applying these rules, recall is 0.8 and precision is 0.9.We would like to make two remarks on this result.
First, quantified CEs like ?tousles mardis?
(every Tuesday) or ?un mardi sur deux?
(one Tuesday out of two) andn-aries (n?
3) CEs like "entre 2008 et 2009 et en juin 2010" (between 2008 and 2009and in june 2010) are identified but are not yet taken into account in the semanticannotation process.
Second, syntactic ambiguities like in ?il a dormi deux jours avantNo?l?
(he slept two days before Christmas) are not taken into account either.
Howeverin this example, there are two possible syntactic structures.
In the first case, "avantNo?l" is the CE and the operator is the Regionalisation one; in the second case, "deuxjours avant No?l" is the CE and the operator is the Shifting one.
Presently, our analysisprovides only the second one like in Aunargue et al (2001) but we intend to upgradeit in order to provide both analyses.Evaluation of the calendar view should be studied from a cognitive point of viewand is highly dependent on the application.
We plan to work with cognitive scien-tists to build a relevant protocol to study this aspect of evaluation which calls for thespecification of a set of navigation operations based on the algebra of operators.4 ConclusionWe proposed an algebra of CEs with three kinds of operators to analyse calendarexpressions and build a functional representation of these expressions.
We describedan implementation of this approach in the platformNaviTexte and we have shown howthe functional representation is used to visualise a calendar view of a text.
In futurework, we will rely on a methodology presented in Battistelli and Chagnoux (2007) in372 Battistelli, Couto, Minel, and SchwerFigure 3: Example of calendar view in NaviTexteorder to take into account several temporal axis, and thus several calendar structures,which are expressed in texts by different levels of enunciations, like citations.ReferencesAunargue, M., M. Bras, L. Vieu, and N. Asher (2001).
The syntax and semantics oflocating adverbials.
Cahiers de Grammaire 26, 11?35.Barzilay, R., N. Elhadad, and K. McKeown (2001).
Sentence ordering in multidocu-ment summarization.
In First International Conference on Human Language Tech-nology Research (HLT-01), pp.
149?156.Battistelli, D. and M. Chagnoux (2007).
Repr?senter la dynamique ?nonciative etmodale de textes.
In actes TALN?07 (Traitement automatique du langage naturel,pp.
13?23.Charolles, M. (1997).
L?encadrement du discours ?
univers, champs, domaines etespaces.
In Cahiers de recherche linguistique, Volume 6 of LANDISCO, pp.
1?73.Universit?
Nancy 2.Couto, J.
(2006).
Mod?lisation des connaissances pour une navigation textuelleassist?e.
La plate-forme logicielle NaviTexte.
Ph.
D. thesis, Universit?
Paris-Sorbonne.Couto, J. and J.-L. Minel (2007).
Navitexte, a text navigation tool.
In , Lecture Notesin Artificial Intelligence 4733, pp.
251?259.
Springer-Verlag.Representing and Visualizing Calendar Expressions in Texts 373Ferro, L., L. Gerber, I. Mani, B. Sundheim, and G. Wilson (2004).
Standard for theannotation of temporal expressions.
Technical report, timex2.mitre.org, MITRECorporation.Filatova, E. and E. Hovy (2001).
Assigning time-stamps to event-clauses.
In Work-shop on Temporal and Spatial Information Processing, ACL?2001, pp.
88?95.Halliday, M. A. K. (1994).
An introduction to functional grammar.
London: EdwardArnold.Harabagiu, S. and C. A. Bejan (2005).
Question answering based on temporal infer-ence.
In AAAI-2005 Workshop on Inference for Textual Question Answering.Hitzeman, J., M.Moens, and C. Grover (1995).
Algorithms for analyzing the temporalstructure of discourse.
In EACL?95, pp.
253?260.Mani, I. and G. Wilson (2000).
Robust temporal processing of news.
In Proceedings38th ACL, pp.
69?76.Pazienza, M. T. (1999).
Information Extraction, toward scalable, adaptable systems.New York: Springer-Verlag.Pustejovsky, J.
(Ed.)
(2002).
TERQAS 2002: An ARDA Workshop on Advanced Ques-tion Answering Technology.Pustejovsky, J., J. Castano, R. Ingria, R. Sauri, R. Gaizauskas, A. Setzer, and G. Katz(2003).
Timeml: Robust specification of event and temporal expressions in text.
InIWCS-5 Fifth International Workshop on Computational Semantics.Pustejovsky, J., R. Knippen, J. Lintman, and R. Sauri (1993).
Temporal and eventinformation in natural language text.
Lexique 11, 123?164.Schilder, F. and C. Habel (2001).
From temporal expressions to temporal informa-tion: Semantic tagging of news messages.
In Proceedings of ACL?01 workshop ontemporal and spatial information processing, pp.
65?72.Schwer, S. R. (2002a).
Reasoning with intervals on granules.
Journal of UniversalComputer Science 8 (8), 793?808.Schwer, S. R. (2002b).
S-arrangements avec r?p?titions.
Comptes Rendus del?Acad?mie des Sciences de Paris S?rie I 334, 261?266.Setzer, A. and R. Gaizauskas (2000).
Annotating events and temporal information innewswire texts.
In Proceeedings 2rd LRC, pp.
64?66.Song, F. and R. Cohen (1991).
Tense interpretation in the context of narrative.
In 9thAAAI, pp.
131?136.Tannen, D. (1997).
Framing in Discourse.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.Teissedre, C. (2007).
La temporalit?
dans les textes : de l?annotation s?mantique ?
lanavigation textuelle.
Master?s thesis, Universit?
Paris-Sorbonne.
