Generating Baseball Summaries from Multiple Perspectives by ReorderingContentAlice OhMIT CSAIL32 Vassar St.Cambridge, MA 02139 USAaoh@mit.eduHoward ShrobeMIT CSAIL32 Vassar St.Cambridge, MA 02139 USAhes@csail.mit.eduAbstractThis paper presents a reordering algorithm forgenerating multiple stories from different per-spectives based on a single baseball game.
Wetake a description of a game and a neutral sum-mary, reorder the content of the neutral sum-mary based on event features, and produce twosummaries that the users rated as showing per-spectives of each of the two teams.
We de-scribe the results from an initial user surveythat revealed the power of reordering on theusers?
perception of perspective.
Then we de-scribe our reordering algorithm which was de-rived from analyzing the corpus of local news-paper articles of teams involved in the gamesas well as a neutral corpus for the respectivegames.
The resulting reordering algorithm issuccessful at turning a neutral article into twodifferent summary articles that express the twoteams?
perspectives.1 IntroductionStories about events are written in many differentperspectives, or points-of-view.
For example, fol-lowing a baseball game, multiple articles are writ-ten that summarize the game from different perspec-tives.
Although they are describing the same game,readers feel differently about the articles and mayprefer to read a certain perspective over all the oth-ers.
We have explored what factors contribute to thedifferences in perspective in these event summarystories and how we can automatically plan contentto generate multiple summaries of a baseball gamewritten from different perspectives.
The end goal ofthis work is to build a system that takes as input afactual description of a baseball game and a neutralarticle about the game, then produces two other ar-ticles, each from a particular team?s point of view.There is previous work such as (Robin and McK-eown, 1996) on automatic summary generation ofsports games, but our work goes further to generatemultiple summaries.It is first necessary to define what is meant by per-spective and multiple perspectives.
The definition ofperspective in this work is somewhat different froma more traditional meaning of perspective in litera-ture, such as the third-person perspective discussedin (Wiebe and Rapaport, 1988).
Our definition ismuch closer to that used in (Lin and Hauptmann,2006), where they look at ideological perspectivesof online articles on political, social, and cultural is-sues.
They look at the political domain of the is-sues between Israel and Palestine, and they try toinfer, for each online article, whether it is writtenfrom the Israeli perspective or the Palestinian per-spective.
For our work, we are looking at the do-main of baseball games, so we focus on the arti-cle?s perspective in terms of the home team versusthe visiting team.
We first assume that the two op-posing perspectives are expressed in the local news-paper articles of the two teams, and we assume thatthe neutral perspective is expressed in the Associ-ated Press articles published on an ESPN website(www.espn.com).
We confirmed these assumptionsvia a user study, then we identified some key factorscontributing to an article having a certain perspec-tive.
The next section explains our corpus and userstudies.1732 CorpusThe Major League Baseball (MLB) has 30 teamswithin the United States and Canada, and each teamplays approximately 160 games per season.
We havecollected data for hundreds of games from the 2005and 2006 MLB seasons.
The corpus is divided intotwo sets.
The first is factual descriptions of thegames in quantitative form and simple natural lan-guage text, and the second is journalistic writingsfrom online news sources.2.1 Game DataFor every MLB game, the website of MLB(www.mlb.com) publishes game data consisting oftwo documents.
The first is a game log (see figure1) , which is a complete list of at-bats in the game,where each at-bat is a set of pitches thrown from apitcher to a batter such that the batter either gets outor advances to a base at the completion of the at-bat.There are at least 3 at-bats per half of an inning (topor bottom), and there are at least 9 innings per game(except in extreme weather conditions), so there areat least 54 at-bats, but usually more.
In our corpus,the average number of at-bats is 76.2 per game.
Thesecond is a boxscore, which is a list of each bat-ter and pitcher?s performance statistics for the game.Currently we do not use the boxscore documents.The game log is parsed using simple regular ex-pression type patterns to turn each at-bat into afeature vector.
We have defined 22 features: in-ningNumber, atBatNumber, pitchCount, homeScore,visitScore, team, pitcher, batter, onFirst, onSec-ond, onThird, outsAdded, baseHit, rbi, doubleplay,runnersStranded, homerun, strikeOut, extraBase-Hit, walk, error, typeOfPlay.
Some of these features,such as batter and typeOfPlay are extracted directlyfrom each line in the log that is being transformedinto a feature vector.
Some of the features, such asinningNumber, team, and pitcher are span multiplecontiguous at-bats and are extracted from the cur-rent line or in one of the lines going back a few at-bats.
The remaining features, such as onFirst, out-sAdded, and runnersStranded are derived from look-ing at the feature vector of the previous at-bat andfollowing simple rules of the baseball game.
For ex-ample, onSecond is derived from looking at the pre-vious feature vector?s onFirst value, and if the cur-rent play is one that advances the runner one base,the previous feature vector?s onFirst gets copied tothe current onSecond.
While we tried to identifyfeatures that are important for analyzing and gener-ating multiple perspectives, later sections will showthat some of them were not used, as they were notsignificant variables for our content ordering algo-rithm.2.2 Online ArticlesIn addition to game logs and boxscores, we collectedarticles published on several online news sources.The MLB website (www.mlb.com) publishes twoarticles for every game, written for each of thetwo teams in the game.
Each team has a uniquesportswriter covering that team for the entire season,so we use the MLB articles as one of our sourceswith the home/visit team perspective.
The ESPNwebsite (www.espn.com) also has articles for ev-ery MLB game including the main summary arti-cles from the Associated Press (AP).
We use the AParticles as our neutral source.
We also collectedonline local newspaper articles for MLB teamsin the American League East Division: BostonRed Sox (The Boston Globe at www.boston.com),New York Yankees (The New York Times atwww.nytimes.com), Baltimore Orioles (The Wash-ington Post at www.washingtonpost.com), TorontoBlue Jays (The Toronto Star at torontostar.com), andTampa Bay Devil Rays (The Tampa Tribune at tam-patrib.com).3 From Neutral to One-Sided PerspectiveWe are building a system that takes a neutral articleand turns it into an article with a one-sided perspec-tive, so we looked at whether we can use the samecontent of the neutral article and still produce a non-neutral perspective.
Surprisingly, looking at the ar-ticles in terms of the game events, there were manygames where the three articles overlap quite a bit inthe (at-bats) that are mentioned in the articles.
Thatis, the neutral and the home/visit team articles alldescribe the same set of game events, but they stillmanage to present them such that the readers noticethe differences in perspective.To compute the overlap of content, the articleswere first tagged with player names and part-of-174Figure 1: Pitch by Pitch Log of a Baseball GameGames All Home Visit41 215 23 21Ave 5.24 0.56 0.51Table 1: Number of at-bats described in all three articles,at-bats only in the home team articles, and at-bats only inthe visit team articles for 41 games.speech tags, and simple pattern matching heuristicswere used to automatically align the sentences in thearticles with game events.
The player names weredownloaded from the MLB team sites accessiblefrom www.mlb.com, and the POS tagging was donewith the Stanford POS tagger (Toutanova and Man-ninig, 2000).
Pattern matching heuristics looked forco-occurrences of tags and words within a certainwindow (e.g., {player} AND ?homerun?
within 3words), and the results from applying those heuris-tics were aligned with the at-bat feature vectorscomputed from the game log.
Testing on 45 arti-cles hand-annotated by the first author, we achieveda precision of 79.0% and recall of 79.2% for align-ment.
The average number of at-bats in those hand-annotated articles was 8.
The percentage of overlap-ping content varies widely, mostly due to the way thegames unfolded.
For example, many games are one-sided where one team simply dominates, and thereare just not enough events that are positive for one ofthe teams.
For those games, the losing team?s news-paper merely reports the result of the game withoutdescribing the events of the game in detail.
How-ever, games that are close in score and number ofhits, we found a high overlap of content among allthree articles.
Table 1 lists the number of at-bats re-ported in common in all three articles.Based on the corpus analyses we surveyed usersto see whether we can identify the important factorsthat contribute to differences in perspective.First, to confirm that the home team and the visitteam perspectives of the local team articles are cor-rectly perceived, we simply presented the AP andlocal newspaper articles to users and asked them toguess which team the articles were written for.
Asexpected, users identified the local team perspec-tive with ease and confidence.
Then, we took outall sentences except ones that describe the the gameevents (at-bats).
Player quotes, commentary aboutthe team or players?
historical performances, and fi-nancial and personal news were some of the con-tent that were removed from the articles.
Users wereasked to guess which team the articles were writtenfor, and again, they were able to identify the localteam perspectives.
We then removed sentences de-scribing game events that did not overlap with thecontent in the neutral article, and again, users iden-tified the local perspectives.
Finally, we replaced allthe sentences with canned surface forms, such thatall the articles shared the same surface form of sen-tences and preserved only the ordering of the con-tent.
This last experiment, albeit with less confi-dence than the previous ones, still produced users?perception of local perspective for the non-neutralarticles.
8 users participated in the study using 12games, and table 2 summarizes the results of theseuser surveys.
All 8 users rated all 36 articles, 3 ar-ticles for each game, but the ordering of the articleswas randomized.
For all four conditions, users wereasked to rate each article on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1is strongly home team perspective, 3 is neutral, and5 is strongly visit team perspective.4 Feature-based Ordering StrategiesFollowing the results from the user study, we useda corpus-driven approach to identify the orderingstrategies that contribute to the different perspec-tives.
We looked at the games for which the three175Condition Home AP VisitOriginal 1.75 2.75 4.06Events Only 1.75 2.90 3.85Overlapping 2.02 2.75 3.85Ordering 2.18 2.83 3.83Table 2: Users?
ratings on how they perceived perspec-tive.
They rated using a 1 to 5 scale, where 1 is the hometeam perspective, 3 is neutral, and 5 is the visiting teamperspective.
For all lines, t-test for the users?
ratings ofhome team articles and visit tema articles show a statisti-cally significant difference at the level p < 0.05.articles have highly overlapping content and studiedhow the content is organized differently.
We seg-mented the articles into topic segments (e.g, para-graphs) and noticed that the three articles differ quitea bit in the topics that hold the content together.These topics can be expressed simply by the fea-ture values that are shared among the at-bats thatappear together in the same segment.
Below is anexample of two different orderings of at-bats basedon feature values.
The first segment (lines 1a, 2a) ofthe first ordering shares the same values for the fea-tures pitcher, team, inning, andR (score added bythat play).
The second segment (lines 3a, 4a) sharespitcher, batter, and team.Pitcher Batter Team inn type R1a Johns Damon Bos 1 hr 12a Johns Ramir Bos 1 dbl 13a Schil Jeter Nyy 4 dbl 04a Schil Jeter Nyy 6 hr 2The second ordering shows the same content ar-ranged in different segments, where both segmentsare organized based on the value of type of play.This is a frequent pattern in our corpus that seems tobe responsible for the different perspectives of thearticles.Pitcher Batter Team inn type R1b Johns Damon Bos 1 hr 12b Schil Jeter Nyy 6 hr 23b Johns Ramir Bos 1 dbl 14b Schil Jeter Nyy 4 dbl 0Since there are many features, we need to identifythe features to use for assigning the at-bats to appearin the same segment.
We used a simple counting ofmost frequent feature values of the corpus to derivethese features.
This comes from the intuition thatthe players whose names appear most frequently inthe articles for a local newspaper tend to be impor-tant topics for those stories.
So we aggregate allthe local team articles and rank the feature valuesincluding pitcher and batter names and play types(e.g., homerun, single, strikeout).
To turn a neutralarticle into a local perspective article, we take theat-bats that should appear in the article, look at thefeature values that are shared among them, and findthe highest-ranked feature value for that team.
Anyremaining at-bats are arranged in chronological or-der.5 ConclusionWe presented a content ordering algorithm that takesa neutral article of baseball and produces two otherarticles from the two teams?
perspectives.
Weshowed that just by reordering, we can induce dif-ferent perspectives, and we used a corpus for dis-covering the different ordering strategies.
In the fu-ture, we will refine our reordering algorithm, carryout a full evaluation, and also look at other factorsthat contribute to perspective such as content selec-tion and surface realization.
We will also look at an-other domain, such as the socio-political conflict inthe Middle East discussed in (Lin and Hauptmann,2006), to see whether similar reordering patterns ap-pear in those articles.ReferencesWei-Hao Lin and Alexander Hauptmann.
2006.
Arethese documents written from different perspectives?A test of different perspectives based on statistical dis-tribution divergence.
Proceedings of the 42th annualmeeting on Association for Computational Linguistics.Jacques Robin and Kathleen McKeown.
1996.
Empir-ically designing and evaluating a new revision-basedmodel for summary generation.
Artificial Intelligence.Kristina Toutanova and Christopher D. Manning.
2000.Enriching the knowledge sources used in a maximumentropy part-of-speech tagger.
Proceedings of theJoint SIGDAT Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing and Very Large Corpora(EMNLP/VLC-2000).Janyce M. Wiebe and William J. Rapaport.
1988.
Acomputational theory of perspective and reference innarrative.
Proceedings of the 26th annual meeting onAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 131?138.176
