BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 88?89,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic inference of indexing rules for MEDLINEAure?lie Ne?ve?ol and Sonya E. ShooshanNational Library of Medicine8600 Rockville PikeBethesda, MD 20894, USA{neveola,sonya}@nlm.nih.govVincent ClaveauIRISA - CNRSCampus de Beaulieu35042 Rennes, FranceVincent.Claveau@irisa.frAbstractThis paper describes the use and customiza-tion of Inductive Logic Programming (ILP) toinfer indexing rules from MEDLINE citations.Preliminary results suggest this method mayenhance the subheading attachment module ofthe Medical Text Indexer, a system for assist-ing MEDLINE indexers.1 IntroductionIndexing is a crucial step in any information retrievalsystem.
In MEDLINE?, a widely used database of thebiomedical literature, the indexing process involvesthe selection of Medical Subject Headings (MeSH?
)in order to describe the subject matter of articles.The need for automatic tools to assist human in-dexers in this task is growing with the increasingnumber of publications in MEDLINE.
The MedicalText Indexer (MTI) (Aronson et al, 2004) has beenavailable at the U.S. National Library of Medicine(NLM) since 2002 to provide indexers with MeSHmain heading recommendations (e.g.
Aphasia, Pa-tient Care.
.
. )
when they create MEDLINE citations.This paper describes a method to enhance MTI withthe capacity to attach appropriate MeSH subhead-ings (e.g.
metabolism, pharmacology) to these mainheadings in order to provide MeSH pair recommen-dations (e.g.
aphasia/metabolism), which are morespecific and therefore a significant asset to NLM in-dexers.Subheading attachment can be accomplished us-ing indexing rules such as:If a main heading from the "Anatomy"tree and a "Carboxylic Acids" term arerecommended for indexing, then the pair"[Carboxylic Acids]/pharmacology" shouldalso be recommended.Sets of manual rules developed for a few subhead-ings show good precision but low recall.
The devel-opment of new rules is a complex, time-consumingtask.
We investigate a novel approach adapting In-ductive Logic Programming (ILP) to the contextof MEDLINE, which requires efficient processing oflarge amounts of data.2 Use of Inductive Logic ProgrammingILP is a supervised machine learning technique usedto infer rules that are expressed with logical clauses(Prolog clauses) based on a set of examples also rep-resented using Prolog.
A comprehensive descrip-tion of ILP can be found in (Muggleton and Raedt,1994).
We selected this method because it is able toprovide simple representations for relational prob-lems and produces rules that can be easily inter-preted.
One caveat to the use of ILP is the complex-ity of rule inference from large sets of positive andnegative examples.
Considering each of the 24,000MeSH main headings independently would not becomputationally feasible.
For this reason, based onwork by Buntine (1988) we introduce a new defini-tion of subsumption that allows us to go through theset of examples efficiently by exploiting hierarchicalrelationships between main headings.
This type ofsubsumption is in fact suitable for any rule inferenceproblem involving structured knowledge encoded byontologies.88Subheading Method Nb.
rules Precision (%) Recall(%) F-measure(%)Overall ILP 587 47 32 38Manual 69 59 10 18Baseline - 32 11 16Table 1: Performance on the test corpus using MTI main heading recommendations3 ExperimentsILP rules were induced using a training corpus of100,000 citations randomly chosen from MEDLINE2006.
Another corpus of 100,000 MEDLINE 2006 ci-tations was used for testing.
ILP rules were appliedon the test corpus using main headings automaticallyretrieved by MTI as triggers.
The performance ofILP was compared to manual rules and a baselineconsisting of randomly formed pairs according totheir distribution in MEDLINE prior to 2006.
Overallresults obtained on 4 subheadings are presented inTable 1.4 DiscussionPerformance.
As expected, the use of MTI to pro-duce main heading recommendations used as trig-gers for the rules results in comparable precisionbut lower recall compared to the theoretical assess-ment.
In spite of this, the performance obtained byILP rules is superior to the baseline and shows thebest F-measure.
The precision obtained by the man-ual rules, when they exist, is higher, but they pro-duce a recall inferior to ILP and even to the baselinemethod.ILP vs. manual rules.
A detailed analysis of therules obtained shows that not all ILP rules are easilyunderstood by indexers.
This is due to some unex-pected regularities which do not seem to be relevantbut nonetheless achieved good results on the trainingdata used to infer rules.Furthermore, we noticed that while most rulestypically contain a ?trigger term?
(e.g.
Anatomyin our previous example) and a ?target term?
(e.g.Carboxylic Acids above), in some ILP rules the tar-get term can also serve as the trigger term.
Somechanges in the ILP inferring process are foreseen inorder to prevent the production of such rules.Rule filtering vs. manual review.
Preliminary ex-periments with producing ILP rules suggested thatimprovement could be achieved by 1/ filtering outrules that showed a comparatively low precision onthe training corpus when applied to main headingsretrieved by MTI; and 2/ by having an indexing ex-pert review the rules to improve their readability.
Onmost subheadings, filtering had little impact but gen-erally tended to improve precision while F-measurestayed the same, which was our goal.
The manualreview of the rules seemed to degrade the perfor-mance obtained with the original ILP.5 Conclusion and perspectivesWe have shown that ILP is an adequate method forautomatically inferring indexing rules for MEDLINE.Further work will be necessary in order to obtainrules for all 83 MeSH subheadings.
Subsequently,the combination of ILP rules with other subheadingattachment methods will be assessed.
We anticipatethat the rule sets we have obtained will be integratedinto MTI?s subheading attachment module.AcknowledgmentsThis study was supported in part by the Intramural Re-search Programs of NIH, NLM.
A. Ne?ve?ol was supportedby an appointment to the NLM Research ParticipationProgram administered by ORISE through an inter-agencyagreement between the U.S. Department of Energy andNLM.ReferencesAlan R. Aronson, James G. Mork, Clifford W. Gay, Su-sanne M. Humphrey, and Willie J. Rogers.
2004.
TheNLM Indexing Initiative?s Medical Text Indexer.
InProceedings of Medinfo 2004, San Francisco, Califor-nia, USA.Wray L. Buntine.
1988.
Generalized Subsumption andits Application to Induction and Redundancy.
Artifi-cial Intelligence, 36:375?399.Stephen Muggleton and Luc De Raedt.
1994.
Inductivelogic programming: Theory and methods.
Journal ofLogic Programming, 19/20:629?679.89
