Proceedings of the ACL-08: HLT Workshop on Mobile Language Processing, pages 27?28,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Distributed Database for Mobile NLP Applications?Petr HomolaInstitute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsCharles UniversityMalostranske?
na?me?st??
25CZ-118 00, Prague, Czech Republichomola@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThe paper presents an experimental machinetranslation system for mobile devices and itsmain component ?
a distributed databasewhich is used in the module of lexical trans-fer.
The database contains data shared amongmultiple devices and provides their automaticsynchronization.1 IntroductionIn Europe, machine translation (MT) is very impor-tant due to the amount of languages spoken there.In the European Union, for example, there are morethen 20 official languages.
Some of them have veryfew native speakers and it is quite problematic forinstitutions and companies to find enough transla-tors for comparatively rare language pairs, such asDanish-Maltese.
We have developed an experimen-tal MT system for Central and East European lan-guages which is in detail presented in (Homola andKubon?, 2004); at the moment, we have resources forGerman, Polish, Czech, Slovak and Russian.
As thelanguages are syntactically and, except of German,lexically related, the system is rule-based.
All com-ponents of the system are implemented in Objective-C (ObjC) and have been ported to the iPhone.2 Architecture of the MT SystemThe basic version of the system consists of the fol-lowing modules:?The research presented in this paper has been supported bythe grant No.
1ET100300517 of the GAAV C?R.Morphological analyzer.
Since the languages haverich inflection, a word has usually many differentendings that express case, number, person etc.
It isnecessary to assign a lemma and a set of morpholog-ical tags to each word form.Shallow parser.
The parser analyzes constituents ofthe source sentence, but not necessarily whole sen-tences.Lexical and structural transfer.
The lexical trans-fer provides a lemma-to-lemma or a term-to-termtranslation.
The structural transfer adapts the syn-tax of the phrases so that they are grammatical inthe target language.Morphological synthesis of the target language.This final phase generates proper word forms in thetarget language.The shallow parser uses the dynamic algorithmdescribed in (Colmerauer, 1969) with feature struc-tures being the main data structure.
The hand-written rules are fully declarative and defined in theLFG format (Bresnan, 2001), i.e., they consist ofa context-free rule and a set of unificational con-ditions.
The transfer (lexical and structural) is fol-lowed by the syntactic and morphological synthe-sis, i.e., the syntactic structures which represent thesource sentences are linearized and proper morpho-logical forms of all words are generated, accordingto the tag associated with them.3 Lexical TransferThe dictionaries are sub-components of the transfermodule.
Their task is to provide lexical translationof constituents analyzed by the shallow parser.
Thedictionary contains translation pairs for words and27phrases.
Most items contain an additional morpho-logical or syntactic information such as gender, va-lence frames etc.The creation of the dictionaries is a very time-consuming task and they can never cover the com-plete lexicon of a language.
In a production environ-ment, it is inevitable to add new items to the databaseas new texts are processed.
The typical workflow isas follows:1.
During the translation of a document (possiblyon a mobile device), unknown words or phrases arefound.
In the translation, they appear in the sourceform since the system does not know how to processthem.
After the processing of the whole document,all found unknown words are added to the databasewith a remark that the words are new to the system.2.
The new items are transmitted to the computer ofa translator whose task is to translate them.
More-over, most items will be assigned a morphological orsyntactico-semantical annotation for the structuraltransfer.3.
The manually updated items are distributed to allinstances of application, i.e., to all devices the MTsystem is installed on, so that they are available forfuture use by all users of the system.The capacity of the used mobile device is suffi-cient to store the lexicon persistently but one couldrun into problems trying to keep the whole lexiconin memory.
For this reason, we use a ternary tree asan index which is kept in memory while full items ofthe lexicon are loaded from a persistent repository atthe moment they are needed.4 Distributed DatabaseThe database can be used on multiple devices andit is synchronized automatically, i.e., an update ofan object is transmitted to all other instances of thedatabase.
The synchronization can be deferred if themodifier or the receiver of the update are offline.
Insuch a case, the database is synchronized as soon asthe device with the database has access to the inter-net.
Due to the offline synchronization, synchroniza-tion conflicts can arise if two or more users update anobject simultaneously.
If the users have changed dif-ferent properties of the same object, the changes aremerged automatically.
Otherwise, the administratorof the database has to resolve the conflict manually.The distributed database consists of the followingcomponents:Object repository.
A local repository of ObjC ob-jects so that the database is accessible even if thereis no internet connection.Transceiver.
A communication module thatsends/receives updates to/from the relay server.
Itincludes a local persistent cache for updates whichis used if there is no internet connection.Relay server.
A server that accepts updates and dis-tributes them to other instances of the database.
Thiscomponent ensures that the database is synchronizedeven if two or more users are never online at thesame time.It is noteworthy that there is no replica of thedatabase on the server, it only serves as a tempo-rary repository for updated records that cannot besynchronized immediately because a receiving de-vice may be offline at the moment another device hascommitted an update (this is the expected situationfor mobile devices such as PDAs and smartphones).Currently, the distributed database is being usedas a collaboration platform in the Czech Broadcast-ing Company (C?esky?
rozhlas).5 ConclusionsWe have presented an experimental MT system thatworks on the iPhone and described how it uses adistributed object database with automatic synchro-nization to keep the lexicon of the system up-to-dateon all devices it is installed on.
We believe that thepresented database is an effective way to keep fre-quently updated data up-to-date on multiple comput-ers and/or mobile devices.
The system is developedin Objective-C thus the code base can be used on theiPhone and on Macs, and it can be easily ported tosystems for which the GNU C Compiler is available.ReferencesJoan Bresnan.
2001.
Lexical-Functional Syntax.
Black-well Publishers, Oxford.Alain Colmerauer.
1969.
Les syste`mes Q ou un formal-isme pour analyser et synthe?tiser des phrases sur ordi-nateur.
Technical report, Mimeo, Montre?al.Petr Homola and Vladislav Kubon?.
2004.
A translationmodel for languages of acceding countries.
In Pro-ceedings of the EAMT Workshop, Malta.28
