Proceedings of the 9th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 46?53,Columbus, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic negotiation in dialogue: the mechanisms of alignmentGregory J. MillsInteraction, Media and CommunicationResearch GroupDepartment of Computer ScienceQueen Mary, University of LondonLondon E1 4NSgj@dcs.qmul.ac.ukPatrick G.T.
HealeyInteraction, Media and CommunicationResearch GroupDepartment of Computer ScienceQueen Mary, University of LondonLondon E1 4NSph@dcs.qmul.ac.ukAbstractA key problem for models of  dialogue  is  toexplain  how  semantic  co-ordination  in  dia-logue  is  achieved  and  sustained.
This  paperpresents findings from a series of Maze Taskexperiments  which are  not  readily explainedby the primary co-ordination mechanisms ofexisting  models.
It  demonstrates  that  align-ment in dialogue is not simply an outcome ofsuccessful  interaction,  but  a  communicativeresource  exploited  by  interlocutors  in  con-verging on a semantic model.
We argue thissuggests mechanisms of co-ordination in dia-logue which are of relevance for a general ac-count  of  how  semantic  co-ordination  isachieved.1 IntroductionOne of the first things apparent to European trav-ellers on arriving at an American hotel is that theground floor is also the first floor.
Any confusioncan  be  quickly  corrected  by  an  observantconcierge,  whether  by explicitly  stating  the  con-vention,  or  by  implicitly  bypassing  the  problemwith  a  different  description,  such  as  ?go  up  5flights of stairs?.
Assuming this description is suf-ficient to guide the hapless traveller to the correctroom, when the same traveller asks for assistanceto find another part of the hotel, the concierge isfaced with a choice of whether to give a descrip-tion involving floor numbers or in terms of flightsof stairs.The immediate  question that  emerges  is  whatmotivates  this  choice  between different  semanticmodels of a domain, how they are deployed wheninterlocutors  are  faced  with  problematic  under-standing, and which semantic model is subsequent-ly used once the problem is resolved.
Although ex-isting approaches to dialogue agree that answeringthis question necessarily involves focusing on theinteractional  devices  available  to  interlocutors,their  primary emphasis  is  on the information-ex-change  aspects  of  language  use.
Larsson  (2007)provides a useful distinction between the co-ordi-nation  of  information,  i.e.
establishing  commonground (Clark, 1996) and the co-ordination of lin-guistic resources which are adapted to suit particu-lar communicative situations in order to make suchinformation-exchange possible.
Part of this frame-work involves interlocutors negotiating which par-ticular semantic model  to use, and adapting theirown interpretations on the basis of successful/un-succesful use.
However, although this frameworksketches out a formal account of the mechanismsinvolved in this process, it is not concerned withpredicting which particular semantic model will beadopted by interlocutors.A model of dialogue which attempts to addressthis  issue  is  the  interactive  alignment  model  ofPickering and Garrod (2004).
In this model conver-gence on a semantic model is arrived at via tacitpriming  occurring  at  all  levels  of  representation(phonetic, phonological, lexical, syntactic, seman-tic and situational): interlocutors are more likely tore-use  the  representations  used  by  their  partner,giving  rise  to  a  ?winner-takes-all?
dynamic  (cf.Steels  & Belpaeme,  2005)  which leads  to  align-46ment of interlocutors' representations.
This is fur-ther  re-inforced  by  ?percolation?
occurring  be-tween levels, thus lexemes associated with particu-lar semantic models will reinforce the use of thesemodels.The claims associated with the interactive align-ment model (henceforth IM) are drawn from a se-ries of maze task experiments (Garrod & Doherty1994; Garrod and Anderson, 1987; Anderson andGarrod,  1987).
This paper discusses some of theoriginal findings of these experiments and a furtherset of maze task experiments conducted by Healeyand Mills (2006), Mills and Healey (2006).
Thesepapers argued that the primary mechanisms provid-ed  by the  IM are  insufficient  for  explaining  ob-served patterns in maze task dialogue; in particularhow  semantic  co-ordination  is  achieved.
Thepresent paper argues that interlocutors in the Mazetask exploit variation in usage in the service of se-mantic  co-ordination.
Furthermore  we  argue  thissuggests  mechanisms which are relevant for a gen-eral  account  of  how  semantic   co-ordination  isachieved in dialogue.
As the claims developed hereare based on the maze task, we first  explain thetask in more detail.
We then discuss a series of ex-amples drawn from this task that raise basic issuesfor models of semantic co-ordination.Figure 1: Example maze configuration.
The solidblack circle shows the player's current position, thecross represents the goal point that the player mustreach,  solid  bars  the  gates  and  shaded  areas  theswitch points.2 The maze taskThe maze task developed by Garrod et alinvolvespairs  of  participants  seated  in  separate  rooms  infront of a computer which displays a simple mazeconsisting  of  interconnected   nodes  (see  Fig  1).Participants  must  move  their  respective  positionmarkers  through  the  maze  in  order  to  reach  a?goal?
node.
Some  of  the  paths  are  blocked  bygates,  which  are  opened  by  participants  guidingeach  other  onto  ?switch?
nodes  (shaded  areas).This  provides  participants  with  the  recurrent  co-ordination problem of collaboratively individuat-ing  and  referring  to  maze  locations  in  order  tosolve the maze.
The descriptions used by partici-pants to refer to maze locations are classified byGarrod et al into four distinct types:Figural: Picks out salient features of the maze:?The l-shape sticking out at the top?
?The uppermost box?Path: Traces  a  route  along  the  connectionsbetween nodes:?Go 2 up, 1 down, 3 along, 5 up?
?up, right, down, up ?Line: Treats the maze as consisting of hori-zontal or vertical vectors:?3rd row, 5th box?
?4th column, second square?Matrix: Cartesian co-ordinate system:?4,2?
?A1?It is assumed that these different description typescorrespond  to  different  semantic  models  of  themaze.3 ConservatismThe first question, also raised by Healey and Mills(2006),  concerns the tension between the interac-tive alignment model's inherently conservative pri-mary co-ordination mechanism and the migrationin  description  types  commonly  observed  in  theMaze task.
To the extent that it relies on primingas its basic mechanism the IM cannot provide anaccount  of  how once a convention is  establishedand used successfully,  it  might  be supplanted by47another..
However, it is consistently observed thatthe description types used most frequently initiallyfall into disuse and are not converged on in latergames.
Across trials there is a general shift frommore ?concrete?
(Figural and Path) descriptions to-wards more ?abstract?
(Line and Matrix) descrip-tions, which runs counter to precedence.
A typicalpattern of the shift is given in table 1, below:0 mins: The piece of the maze sticking out2 mins: The left hand corner of the maze5 mins: The northenmost box10 mins: Leftmost square of the row on top15 mins: 3rd column middle square20 mins: 3rd column 1st square25 mins: 6th row longest column30 mins: 6th row 1st column40 mins: 6 r, 1 c45 mins: 6,1Table  1:  Semantic  shift  from  ?Figural?
and?Path?
descriptions to ?Line?
and ?Matrix?
ob-served in maze task dialogues.Garrod (1999) discusses this process as an ?explo-ration?
process.
However, this, in itself, doesn't ex-plain the systematic patterns of change observed inthe experiments.4  VariationThe  early  explanations  of  co-ordination  in  theMaze  Task  also  emphasized  the  importance  ofvariation in the description types  participants areexposed to.
Garrod and Doherty (1994) assignedparticipants  to  one  of  three  different  groups:  (1)isolated pairs who always interacted with the samepartner in subsequent games, (2) a sub-communitygroup whose  members  changed partners  in  eachgame,  only  interacting  with  members  from  thesame  sub-community,  and  (3)  a  non-communitygroup  whose  members  always  interacted  with  anew partner  who  was  not  drawn  from the  samecommunity.
Although  initially  pairs  in  the  sub-community group were less co-ordinated than theisolated pairs, using a wider variety of referring ex-pressions,  by the later  trials,  this  pattern was re-versed:  participants  in  the  sub-community  grouphad converged on a single Matrix scheme and con-sistently matched each other's descriptions.These findings present a problem for accounts ofco-ordination which rely on priming, as they makethe emphasis of the priority of alignment of repre-sentations at all levels problematic.
The metaphorof two tightly-coupled production and comprehen-sion systems is the paradigm case of successful co-ordination, as it allows rapid priming between in-terlocutors' representations.
However, these exper-iments show weaker semantic co-ordination in theisolated dyads  than within the  group.
As  Garrodand Doherty (1994) concur, this implies that varia-tion,  i.e.
differences  in interlocutors'  representa-tions  is  important  for  establishing and sustainingsemantic co-ordination.5 Granularity of analysisIf variation of description types is intrinsic to thedevelopment  of  semantic  co-ordination,  thisstrongly  suggests  the  importance  of  mechanismsinvolved in dealing with problematic understand-ing (Healey, forthcoming).
All things being equal,variation increases the likelihood that interlocutorswill encounter others whose use of language willdiffer more from their own.
Further, any account ofmisunderstandings must also be able to address  se-mantic  differences  between  descriptions:  partici-pants in the maze task do not treat these four de-scription types  equally, and consequently are notappropriately modelled as co-ordination equilibriaof  the  kind  described  by  Lewis  (1968)  (Healey,2004;  forthcoming).
Existing  experimental  datashows that participants systematically favour Figu-ral and Path descriptions when encountering prob-lematic dialogue (Mills and Healey, 2006; Healey,1997) not the prior most frequently used semanticmodel as predicted by the IM.Looking more closely at the dialogues, it is notclear  that  the  co-ordination  mechanisms  actuallyoperate directly at the level of the four basic se-mantic models.
Consider the following excerpt inwhich a participant  encounters difficulties with aLine description type  and its  associated countingconventions.
The  dialogue  continues  with  moreFigural descriptions,  before resuming at turn (35)with a Line description:48(1) A: go to the 1st row 2nd on the right(2) B: 2nd?
(3) A: on the right(4) B: OK, I can only get to the left  of themaze(5) A: go to the highest square on the left(6) B: yes.
And then?......
(35) B: I'm on the top row 2nd squareExcerpt 1: Deletion of elements from problem-atic turn.While superficially, A's turn at (3) appears sim-ply as a repeat  of  (1),  with ?on the right?
beingomitted, the subsequent turns continue with Figuraldescriptions.
On this basis, it is unclear whether (1)and (3) invoke the same Line model or whether (3)invokes a Figural description.
There is a large classof  similar  clarification  sub-dialogues  which  in-volve deletion of a problematic element and resultin the continuation of the dialogue with more Figu-ral descriptions.This issue is of  importance for any theory ofsemantic co-ordination as it raises the question ofthe granularity of the mechanisms involved in howinterlocutors collaboratively change semantic mod-el.
Further,  it  strongly suggests that  alignment  isnot simply an outcome of successful communica-tion, but can provide the background against whichother  co-ordination  mechanisms  operate.
Turns(1)-(6) demonstrate high levels of between-speakeralignment, while at the same time involving a shiftin semantic model.
Before returning to this below,we demonstrate further differences between the in-formational  view  of  language  and  an  accountwhich focuses on semantic co-ordination.6 Information vs. semantic co-ordinationFrom an informational perspective, if an utterancefails  to  secure  reference,  there  is  the  general  as-sumption that more information will be provided toallow resolution of the problem.
However, in (3),no  new information  is  provided by A.
This  is  acounter-example to  Clark  and  Marshall's  (1981)model of definite reference repair, which states thatto be effective ?repair  must  add or alter  descrip-tors, but not delete them?.
Importantly,  these CRresponses that simply delete elements from the tar-get turn are not treated by participants as repeatsand queried again, but appear to promote resolu-tion of the problematic understanding by engender-ing  the  use  of  more  Figural  descriptions.
Thewords which are omitted do not appear, as with thelevel of description types, to be dictated by priorfrequency of  use  (Mills,  2007).
Instead,  the  datasuggest  that  this  pattern is  motivated by a relax-ation of the constraints of successful interpretation(Healey and Mills, 2006).The  example  above  raises  a  further  questionconcerning the relationship between semantic co-ordination and the exchange of information.
In ex-isting ?ladder models?
of communication such asthe collaborative model  of Clark (1996) and All-wood (1995), there  is the general expectation thaton encountering and signalling problematic under-standing, interlocutors enter a sub-dialogue to re-solve the problem, which on completion proceedsat  the  same  ?level?.
From  this  perspective,  B'sturn-initial  acknowledgment at (4) should demar-cate the end of the sub-dialogue dealing with theproblematic  understanding.
Focusing  on  the  de-scription types,  however, shows that it  is only atturn (35) that the interlocutors return to using theoriginal problematic line description; the semanticeffects persist beyond the immediate sub-dialogue.This highlights the inadequacy of a strict informa-tional view of language as the response providesno additional information, yet still has the effect ofresolving the misunderstanding.7 Exploitation  of  alignment:  patterns  ofdeletion, modification and additionIn addition to deletion of elements contained in re-ferring expressions, the maze task dialogues exhib-it  a  multiplicity  of  ways  in  which  interlocutorsmodify descriptions when dealing with problemat-ic understanding, through the addition, substitutionand (as described above) deletion of elements ofsemantic models.
We argue that alignment is keyto these patterns of modification, as it provides abackdrop  against  which  changes  can  be  made.The canonical example of this is embedded correc-tion (Jefferson, 1983; Saxton, 2007) which exploitsthe structure provided by alignment to make a fig-ure / ground distinction that allows the correctedelement to be identified:49(1) A: You need to go to the top of the 5throw(2) B: I can't get to the top of the 5th lineExcerpt 2: Substitution of problematic ele-ments .Embedded corrections in the maze task exhibitvery high levels of between-speaker alignment, yetoccur at points in the dialogue where there is prob-lematic  understanding.
This  indicates  that  align-ment can not simply be reduced to an index of suc-cessful communication.
While this particular con-versational device which spans  2 turns (and possi-bly a third) has received much attention, closer in-spection of  the  maze  task  dialogues  reveal  a  farlarger space of possible means of exploiting align-ment.
Excerpt 1 above showed deletions, Excerpt 2substitutions,  however  a  similar  pattern  also  ap-pears with the addition of Figural elements.
(1) A: I'm in the 4th row 5th square(2) B: where's that ?
(3) A: The end bit(4) B: cheers, I'm on the end bit right at thetop(5) A: can you get to my switch?....
(23) B: am on the top row 3rd squareExcerpt 3: Addition of ?Figural?
elements.At  a  first  glance,  this  excerpt  looks  like  astraightforward  clarification  request  followed  bythe provision of more details,  specifying that  the?5th  square?
is  also  ?the  end  bit?.
B's  use  of?cheers?
in  (4)  and  subsequent  provision  of  herown maze location would appear to demarcate theend of the clarification sequence, as they  providean acknowledgment and a ?next relevant contribu-tion?
(Clark, 1996).
However, focusing on the en-suing turns yields a pattern that parallels the firstexample.
The semantic effects stretch beyond theimmediate  clarification  sub-dialogue:  both  inter-locutors  continue  with  more  Figural  descriptionsuntil turn (23) where the original, problematic Linedescription is attempted again.A further issue  emerges when interlocutors fi-nally re-use the original description, as in turn (23)of Excerpt 1, and (35) above: although the surfaceform of the descriptions are similar, this does notnecessarily entail that they individuate the same lo-cations.
For example, the counting conventions as-sociated with squares may change, such as count-ing from the left  instead of the right or countingfrom 0 as opposed to 1, similar to the concierge ex-ample  above.
The  axes  may  also  change,  with?rows?
referring to vertical vectors (i.e.
columns).This raises important questions of the relation-ship  between  the  problematic  utterance,  the  sig-nalling of the problem,  the response, the ensuingfigural sub-dialogue and the subsequent return tothe superficially similar but potentially altered de-scription type.
It appears that alignment is not sim-ply  an outcome but an interactional resource thatis exploited to facilitate the continuation with moreFigural descriptions (cf.
Saxton, 2007).In the first excerpt, turns (1) and (3) only differminimally from each other, while in the second ex-ample, turn (3) can be seen to be operating ellipti-cally on turn (1).
However, both engender similarsemantic  shifts  towards  Figural  descriptions  andresult in a return to the originally problematic Linedescription.This leads to the immediate question of whatmotivates interlocutors'  patterns of alignment andmodification,  and how they reflect differences ofunderstanding and diagnosis of  the problem.
Thetacit and fine-grained nature of these modificationsexacerbates the problem of arriving at a prelimi-nary  taxonomy,  as  these  dialogue  sequences  arenot readily categorizable as either ?elaborations?
or?reformulations?
(cf.
Purver  et  al.,  2004,Schlangen 2004).8 Boundary of (mis)communicationDuring the course of maze task dialogues, partici-pants shift seamlessly and tacitly from one descrip-tion type to another.
This occurs both within prob-lematic and unproblematic dialogue.
From an in-formational  perspective,  miscommunication  isreadily  describable  as  a  form  of  mismatch,  yetfrom  a  semantic  perspective,  participants  matcheach  other  more  when  encountering  difficulties.50Thus alignment  cannot  be taken as a straightfor-ward index of successful interaction.This also raises a methodological point.
Mea-sures  of  matching  of  representations,  whether  atthe level of description type or its constituent ele-ments are only an approximate index of semanticco-ordination.
The excerpts above demonstrate theimportance  of  the  interplay  between  what  is  re-tained and what is modified.
What is required is ameasure that is sensitive to the kind of model beingused and the kind of repair being performed.In addition, more frequent repair does not nec-essarily entail that a dialogue is unsuccessful.
It isnot the case that interlocutors introduce their utter-ances carefully, and once they are sufficiently co-ordinated,  move  on.
The  general  pattern  is  thatwhen participants introduce abstract (Line and Ma-trix) descriptions, they do so opportunistically.
Atthe start of the games they frequently attempt bothLine and Matrix descriptions, which are associatedwith higher co-ordination.
However,  there is evi-dence that it is only where they can go through theprocess of detecting and responding to differencesin  usage,  i.e.
repair,  that  co-ordination  develops(Healey and Mills, 2006).If the boundary between description types andalso the boundary between successful and unsuc-cessful use can be as porous as demonstrated in theexcerpts above, this also suggests a more complexpicture  of  referential  contraction  (Krauss  andWeinheimer, 1966) than provided by current mod-els of dialogue.
In current models this is primarilyassociated with successful use: in the collaborativemodel, interlocutors follow the principle of ?leastcollaborative  effort?
(Clark  and  Wilkes-Gibbs,1986), whereby successful use sets a precedent foran expression; co-ordination on precedence allowsinterlocutors to delete elements of the descriptionon successive mention.
It is assumed that the infor-mation associated with these deleted elements thatare no longer on the conversational surface can bere-accessed in the common ground and mentionedexplicitly, e.g.
to assist disambiguation.By contrast, the phenomena from the maze taskshow how similar  processes are operative duringproblematic  dialogue,  raising  further  questionsconcerning  the  difference  between  elements  thatare removed in successful, as opposed to problem-atic dialogue and where this boundary lies.Larsson's  model  of  semantic  co-ordinationplaces a strong emphasis on the role of feedback innegotiating this boundary in terms of appropriate-ness gleamed from feedback (e.g.
repair, acknowl-edgements etc..), and provides a schema which an-alyzes the effects of novel uses of a word  and thesubsequent update of interlocutors' representations.Findings from the maze task experiments aug-ment this approach as they suggest that  evidenceof appropriateness is also derived in the absence ofovert repair from semantic change alone.
The ex-cerpts  indicate  that  interlocutors  are  sensitive  towhich particular tacit shift in model leads to a re-laxation of the constraints on successful communi-cation, and consequently can be exploited to indi-cate problematic understanding (Mills, 2007).
Forexample, consider the following two excerpts:(1) A: It's on the 5th row 4th square(2) B: Huh?
(3) A: The last square(1) A: It's on the 5th row 4th square(2) A: The last squareExcerpts 4, 5: Provision of feedbackIf the dialogue continues successfully in both theseinstances, it is unclear how to adequately capturethe  differences  between them,  in  particular,  howboth patterns affect subsequent use of the descrip-tion types,One of the main challenges facing an account ofsemantic co-ordination is teasing apart how inter-locutors'  models  are  affected  by  both  semanticchange exploited as a resource using the mecha-nisms of alignment outlined above, and feedbackconcerning that change, as both aspects inhabit theboundary between successful and unsuccessful use.Evidence  from  the  maze  task  suggests  thisboundary is one of the important locii in the devel-opment of semantic co-ordination.9 Semantic plasticityTo describe  how interlocutors  dynamically adaptthe meanings of the words they use to the commu-nicative  situation  and  how  they  are  shapedthroughout  the  course  of  the  dialogue,  Larsson(2006) introduces the notion of ?semantic plastici-51ty?.
This model is sensitive to the fact that descrip-tions  can involve a plethora  of  different  ?ad-hocregisters?,  which resonates strongly with the em-pirical  phenomena  described  here.
However,  thedata from all the maze task experiments presents afurther problem for attempts to model  these phe-nomena,  as successful  co-ordination on the morespecific  abstract  levels  appears  to  be  predicatedupon prior successful use of less specific Figuraldescriptions:  the  Figural  descriptions  are  highlyspecific to individual mazes and allow participantsto co-ordinate on their salient features, whereas theLine and Matrix descriptions abstract  away fromeach individual instance to form dyad-specific con-ceptualizations  of  vectors  and  their  associatedcounting conventions.While  Larsson's  account  highlights  the  sheerflexibility of ways in which linguistic resources aremobilized and adapted to particular interaction set-tings, the data from the maze task suggest an addi-tional level of complexity.
Namely that the seman-tic resources can not  be treated as separate, essen-tially equal encyclopaedias that interlocutors drawon.
One way in which the cumulative shift  towardMatrix descriptions is achieved is by the combina-tion of different ?registers?
(Larsson 2007) to forma super-ordinate one.
Here the question concernswhich specific features of each semantic model areincluded in the final one, in particular when thereare problems of commensurability.
For example, astable 1 shows, a common pattern in maze task dia-logues is that approximately half-way through thedialogues  participants  use  ?Line?
descriptions.
Itcan  occur  that  they alternate  between describingthe maze  as consisting of vertical  and horizontalvectors,  say with  one  participant  favouring  hori-zontal  and  the  other  favouring  vertical  vectors(space considerations preclude a throrough exami-nation of this process, described in Mills, 2007).
Itfrequently occurs that Matrix descriptions emergewhen  these  two  different  Line  models  are  com-bined to form a Matrix description.
This process,however, is not as a rule simply a matter of com-bining the two.
Frequently, the two types of Linedescription employ different counting conventions,as in the example of the concierge above, givingrise to the problem of whether to retain differentcounting conventions for the different axes, or em-ploy the same one.
The question then emerges asto how this super-ordinate, more abstract semanticmodel affects the original models.Results  from  the  maze  task  suggest  this  isachieved tacitly by interlocutors, employing simi-lar patterns of modification to those described inthe excerpts above (Mills, 2007).10 ConclusionThe  phenomena  described  here  demonstrate  theneed for an account of semantic co-ordination thatexplains how interlocutors converge on a semanticrepresentation.
Dialogues from the maze task pro-vide  compelling  evidence  that  such  an  accountmust necessarily be able to account for how varia-tion, and hence differences in semantic models areresolved.
This approach necessarily involves shift-ing the focus from an informational view of lan-guage towards a focus on how interlocutors actual-ly address these differences.In a sense, this presents a reversal of the priori-ties of existing models.
For the interactive align-ment  model,  as  well  as  the  collaborative  model,misunderstanding is seen as a secondary problemthat emerges as a complication of communicationwhich  is  ordinarily  successful  (Healey,  2004;forthcoming).
The  collaborative  model  explicitlystates that in order for communication to be suc-cessful,  positive  evidence  of  understanding  mustbe demonstrated.By contrast,  the view presented  here bringsproblematic understanding into the foreground,  asit  is  in  such  instances,  when  conventions  don'twork as expected, that interlocutors gain a sense oftheir applicability.
The phenomena presented heresuggest that the processes operating in instances ofmisunderstanding are as much progenitors  of  se-mantic co-ordination, as their  traditional counter-part  of  displays  of  positive  understanding.
Inter-locutors' separate interaction histories inescapablygive rise to problems concerning the developmentand sustenance of mutual-intelligibility, intrinsical-ly requiring interlocutors to resolve differences ofsemantic model  in interaction.
The data from themaze task experiments  demonstrate how this canbe achieved  through  tacitly modifying the  con-stituents of  semantic models.
This modification in-volves the exploitation of alignment,  and has theeffect of relaxing the constraints on successful un-derstanding.Any theory  of  dialogue  must,  in  the  first  in-stance be concerned with what interlocutors actual-ly do.
The phenomena presented here demonstrate52mechanisms  of  semantic  co-ordination  that  havepreviously fallen  under  the  category of  informa-tion-exchange,  and  the  questions  raised  presentrich  opportunities for further experimental investi-gation.ReferencesAllwood, J.
(1995).
An activity based approach to prag-matics.
Technical Report (GPTL) 75, Gothenburg Pa-pers in Theoretical Linguistics, University of  G?te-borg.Clark,  H.  H.  Using  Language.
Cambridge  UniversityPress, Cambridge.Garrod, S. and Doherty, G. 1994.
Conversation, co-ordi-nation and convention: an empirical investigation ofhow groups establish linguistic conventions.
Cogni-tion, 53:181-215.Healey,  P.G.T.
1997.
?Expertise  or  expert-ese:  Theemergence  of  task-oriented  sub-languages.?
Pro-ceedings of the Ninteenth Annual Conference of TheCognitive Science Society.
M.G.
Shafto and Langley,P.
(Ed.s) August 7th-10th, Stanford University, CA.pp.
301-306.Healey,  P.G.T.
2004.
?Dialogue  in  the  degeneratecase??
Peer  Commentary on Pickering and Garrod:?The Interactive Alignment Model?.
Behavioral andBrain Sciences 27(2) p. 201.Healey P.G.T.
(forthcoming) ?Interactive Misalignment:The Role of  Repair in the Development  of GroupSub-languages?
in Cooper R. and and Kempson R.(eds) Language Change.Healey,  P.G.T.
and  Mills,  G.J.
2006.
?Participation,Precedence and Co-ordination in Dialogue?
in Sun R.and Miyake, N.
(eds.)
Proceedings of Cogsci06: The28th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science So-ciety.
Vancouver,  BC,  Canada.
26-29th  July.
pp.1470-1475.Je erson, G. (1983).
On exposed and embedded correcff -tion in conversation.
Studium Linguistik, 14, 58?68.Krauss,  R.  M.  and  Weinheimer,  S.  1966.
Concurrentfeedback, confirmation and the encoding of referentsin verbal communication.
Journal of Personality andSocial Psychology, 4:343-346.Larsson,  S.  2007.
A  general  framework  for  semanticplasticity and negotiation.
In  Bunt,  H. C., and Thi-jsse, E. C. G. (eds):  Prceedings of the 7th Interna-tional  Workshop  on  Computational  Semantics(IWCS-7).Larsson, S. 2006.
Semantic plasticity.
Paper presentedat  LCM 2006.
(Language,  Culture and Mind),  July2006, Paris, France.Lewis,  D.  1969.
Convention:  A  philosophical  study.Harvard University Press.Mills, G.J.
and Healey, P.G.T.
(2006) Clarifying SpatialDescriptions: Local and Global Effects on SemanticCo-ordination.
In  Schlangen,  D. and Fernandez,  R.(eds.)
Proceedings of Brandial06 The 10th Workshopon the Semantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue.
Uni-versity of Potsdam, Germany; September 11th-13th.pp.122-129.Mills, G. J.
2007.
The development  of semantic co-or-dination  in  dialogue:  the  role  of  direct  interaction.Unpublished PhD.
Thesis.Purver,  M.,  Healey,  P.  G. T.,  King,  J.,  and Mills,  G.2003.
Answering clarification questions.
In Proceed-ings of  the 5th Workshop of  the ACL SIG on Dis-course and Sialogue (SIGdial03), Sapporo, Japan.Saxton, M. 1997.
The contrast theory of negative input.Journal of Child Language, 24, 139-161.Schlangen, D. 2004.
Causes and strategies for request-ing clarification in dialogue.
In  Proceedings of  the5th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue.Steels, L. and Belpaeme T. 2005.
Coordinating percep-tually grounded categories through language: A casestudy  for  colour.
Behavioral  and  Brain  Sciences,28(4):469-8953
