BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 110?111,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsTextual Information for Predicting Functional Properties of the GenesOana Frunza and Diana InkpenSchool of Information Technology and EngineeringUniversity of Ottawa Ottawa, ON, Canada, K1N 6N5{ofrunza,diana}@site.uottawa.ca1 OverviewThis paper is focused on determining which pro-teins affect the activity of Aryl Hydrocarbon Re-ceptor (AHR) system when learning a model thatcan accurately predict its activity when singlegenes are knocked out.
Experiments with resultsare presented when models are trained on a singlesource of information: abstracts from Medline(http://medline.cos.com/) that talk about the genes in-volved in the experiments.
The results suggest thatAdaBoost classifier with a binary bag-of-wordsrepresentation obtains significantly better results.2 Task Description and Data SetsThe task that we address is a biology-specific taskconsidered a competition track for KDDCup2002(http://www.biostat.wisc.edu/~craven/kddcup/winners.html).The organizers of the KDD Cup competitionprovided data obtained from experiments per-formed on a set of yeast strains in which eachstrain contains a single gene that is knocked out (agene sequence in which a single gene is inopera-tive).
Each experiment had associated a discretizedvalue of the activity of the AHR system when asingle gene was knocked out.
3 possible classesdescribe the systems?
response.
The "nc" label in-dicates that the activity of the hidden system wasnot significantly different than the baseline (thewild-type yeast); the "control" label indicates thatthe activity was significantly different than thebaseline for the given instance, and that the activityof another hidden system (the control) was alsosignificantly changed compared to its baseline; the"change" label shows that the activity of the hid-den system was significantly changed, but the ac-tivity of the control system was not significantlychanged.The organizers of the KDD Cup evaluate the taskas a two-class problem with focus on the positiveclass.
The first definition is called the ?narrow?definition of the positive class and it is specific tothe knocked-out genes that had an AHR-specificeffect.
In this case the positive class is defined bythe experiments in which the label of the system is?change?
and the negative examples are the ex-periments that consist of those genes with eitherthe "nc" or the "control" label.
The second defini-tion consists of those genes labeled with either the"change" or the "control" label.
The negative classconsists of those genes labeled with the "nc" label.The second partitioning corresponds to the?broad?
characterization of the positive classgenes that affect the hidden system.The area under the Receiver Operating Charac-teristic (ROC) - AUC curve is chosen as an evalua-tion measure.
The global score for the task will bethe summed AUC values for both the ?narrow?
andthe ?broad?
partition of the data.The sources of information provided by the or-ganizers of the task contain: hierarchical informa-tion about the function and localization of thegenes; relational information describing the pro-tein-protein interactions; and textual information inabstracts from Medline that talk about the genes.Some characteristics of the data need to be takeninto consideration in order to make suitable deci-sions for choosing the trainable system/classifier,the representation of the data, etc.
Missing infor-mation is a characteristic of the data set.
Not allgenes had the location and function annotation, theprotein-protein interaction information, or abstractsassociated with the gene name.
Besides the missinginformation, the high class imbalance is anotherfact that needs to be taken into account.From the data that was released for the KDDcompetition we run experiments only with thegenes that had associated abstracts.
Table 1 pre-sents a summary of the data sets used in our ex-periments after considering only the genes that hadabstracts associated with them.
The majority of thegenes had one abstract, while others had as manyas 22 abstracts.110Table 1.
Summary of the data for our experiments withthe two definitions of the positive class.
In brackets arethe original sizes of the data sets.Narrow Broad Dataset Pos Neg Pos NegTraining 24(37)1,435(2,980)51(83)1,408(2,934)Test 11(19)715(1,469)30(43)696(1,445)3 Related WorkPrevious research on the task was done by theteams that participated in the KDD Cup 2002.
Thetextual information available in the task was con-sidered as an auxiliary source of information andnot the primary one, as in this article.The winners of the task, Kowalczyk and Raskutti(2002) used the textual information as additionalfeatures to the ones extracted from other availableinformation for the genes.
They used a ?bag-of-words?
representation, removed stop words andwords with low frequency.
They used SupportVector machine (SVM) as a classifier.Krogel et.
al.
(2002) used the textual informationwith an information extraction system in order toextract missing information (function, localization,protein class) for the genes in the released data set.Vogel and Axelrod (2002) used the Medline ab-stracts to extract predictive keywords, and addedthem to their global system.Our study investigates and suggests a textual rep-resentation and a trainable model suitable for thistask and similar tasks in the biomedical domain.4 MethodThe method that we propose to solve the biologytask is using Machine Learning (ML) classifierssuitable for a text classification task and variousfeature representations that are known to work wellfor data sets with high class imbalance.
The taskbecomes a two-class classification: ?Positive?
ver-sus ?Negative?, with a ?narrow?
and ?broad?definition for the positive class.
As classificationalgorithms we used: Complement Naive Bayes(CNB), AdaBoost, and SVM all from the Wekatoolkit (http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/).
Similar tothe evaluation done for the KDD Cup, we considerthe sum of the 2 AUC measures for the definitionsof the positive class as an evaluation score.
Therandom classifier with an AUC measure of 0.5 isconsidered as a baseline.As a representation technique we used binaryand frequency values for features that are: wordsextracted from the abstracts (bag-of-words (BOW)representation), UMLS concepts and UMLSphrases identified using the MetaMap system(http://mmtx.nlm.nih.gov/), and UMLS relations ex-tracted from the UMLS metathesaurus.
We alsoran experiments with feature selection techniques.Table 2 presents our best results using AdaBoostclassifier for BOW, UMLS concepts, and UMLSrelations representation techniques.
?B?
stands forbinary and ?Freq?
stands for frequency counts.Table 2.
Sum of the AUC results for the two classeswithout feature selection.Represen-tationAdaBoost(AUC)NarrowAdaBoost(AUC)BroadSumedAUCBOW_B 0.613 0.598 1.211BOW_Freq 0.592 0.557 1.149UMLS_B 0.571 0.607 1.178UMLS_Freq 0.5 0.606 1.106UMLS_Rel_B 0.505 0.547 1.052UMLS_Rel_Freq 0.5 0.5 15 Discussion and ConclusionLooking at the obtained results, a general conclu-sion can be made: textual information is useful forbiology-specific tasks.
Not only that it can improvethe results but can also be considered a stand-alonesource of knowledge in this domain.
Without anyadditional knowledge, our result of 1.21 AUC sumis comparable with the sum of 1.23 AUC obtainedby the winners of the KDD competition.ReferencesAdam Kowalczyk and Bhavani Raskutti, 2002.
OneClass SVM for Yeast Regulation Prediction, ACMSIGKDD Explorations Newsletter, Volume 4, Issue2, pp.
99-100.Mark A Krogel, Marcus Denecke, Marco Landwehr,and Tobias Scheffer.
2002.
Combining data and textmining techniques for yeast gene regulation predic-tion: a case study, ACM SIGKDD ExplorationsNewsletter, Volume 4, Issue 2, pp.
104-105.David S. Vogel and Randy C. Axelrod.
2002.
Predictingthe Effects of Gene Deletion, ACM SIGKDD Explo-rations Newsletter, Volume 4, Issue 2, pp.
101-103.111
