Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (COGALEX 2008), pages 18?24Manchester, August 2008Accessing the ANW dictionaryFons Moerdijk, Carole Tiberius, Jan NiestadtInstitute for Dutch Lexicology (INL)Leiden{moerdijk,tiberius,niestadt}@inl.nlAbstractThis paper describes the functional de-sign of an interface for an online schol-arly dictionary of contemporary standardDutch, the ANW.
One of the main inno-vations of the ANW is a twofold meaningdescription: definitions are accompaniedby ?semagrams?.
In this paper we focuson the strategies that are available for ac-cessing information in the dictionary andthe role semagrams play in the dictionarypractice.1 IntroductionIn this paper we discuss the functional design ofan interface for a scholarly dictionary of contem-porary standard Dutch which is currently beingcompiled at the institute for Dutch Lexicology inLeiden.
The ?Algemeen Nederlands Woorden-boek?
(General Dutch Dictionary), further abbre-viated as ANW, has been set up as an online dic-tionary from the start.
Thus, the ANW is not aclone of an existing printed dictionary, but ittruly represents a new generation of electronicdictionaries in the sector of academic and scien-tific lexicography.
A similar dictionary project isundertaken for German at the Institut f?rDeutsche Sprache in Mannheim, i.e.
elexiko1.The project runs from 2001 till 2019.
We havecurrently finished the functional design of theinterface and the first results will be published onthe web in 2009.?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.1 http://hypermedia.ids-mannheim.de/pls/elexiko/p4_start.portalThe structure of this paper is as follows.
Firstwe will provide some background information onthe ANW dictionary and we will explain what asemagram is.
Then we will discuss the range ofsearch routes that are offered to the user to ex-ploit the information in the dictionary and wewill describe the role of the semagram.
TheANW dictionary is aimed at the adult Dutch lan-guage user ranging from laymen to linguists andother language professionals.2 The ANW dictionaryThe ANW Dictionary is a comprehensive onlinescholarly dictionary of contemporary standardDutch in the Netherlands and in Flanders, theDutch speaking part of Belgium.
Object of de-scription is the general language.
Thus wordsthat are specific to a particular region, to a par-ticular group of people or a particular subjectfield are not included.
The dictionary focuses onwritten Dutch and covers the period from 1970till 2018.
The ANW dictionary is a corpus-baseddictionary based on the ANW corpus, a balancedcorpus of just over 100 million words, which wascompiled specifically for the project at the Insti-tute for Dutch Lexicology.
The corpus was com-pleted in 20052.
It consists of several subcorpora:a corpus of present-day literary texts, a corpus ofneologisms, a corpus of domain dependent textsand a corpus of newspaper texts.
The dictionarywill contain approximately 80.000 headwordswith a complete description and about 250.000smaller entries.The ANW is a very informative dictionary.
Itsabstract entry structure is composed of hundredsof elements and subelements.
The reason for thisis that special attention is paid to words in  con-text (combinations, collocations, idioms, prov-2 For neologisms new corpus material continues to begathered.18erbs) and to relations with other words (lexicalrelations like synonymy, antonymy, hypero-nymy, hyponymy), to semantic relations (meta-phor, metonymy, generalisation, specialisation)and to morphological patterns, the word structureof derivations and compounds.
One of its maininnovations is a twofold meaning description:definitions are accompanied by ?semagrams?.
Assemagrams play a central role in the dictionary(for understanding and production), we provide ashort introduction below.3 The semagramA semagram is the representation of knowledgeassociated with a word in a frame of ?slots?
and?fillers?.
?Slots?
are conceptual structure elementswhich characterise the properties and relations ofthe semantic class of a word meaning.
On thebasis of these slots specific data is stored (?fill-ers?)
for the word in question.
In ANW jargonthe abstract structure schema is called a ?typetemplate?, whereas semagram refers to such a?type template?
populated with concrete worddata.
Each semantic class has its own predefinedtype template with its own slots.
For instance, thetype template for the class of animals containsthe slots PARTS, BEHAVIOUR, COLOUR, SOUND,BUILD, SIZE, PLACE, APPEARANCE, FUNCTION andSEX, whereas the type template for beverages hasslots for INGREDIENT, PREPARATION, TASTE,COLOUR, TRANSPARANCY, USE, SMELL, SOURCE,FUNCTION, TEMPERATURE and COMPOSITION.
Sofar we have concentrated on semagrams fornouns, those for verbs and adjectives will be dif-ferent.
Below we give an example of a semagramfor a member of the animal class, i.e.
koe (cow)(translated into English for illustration) in itsmeaning as a ?bovine?
:COWUPPER CATEGORY: is an animal # animal; mammal; ruminantCATEGORY:  is a bovine (animal) # bovine; ruminantSOUND:   moows/lows, makes a sound that we imitate with a low, long-drawn ?boo?
#moo; low; booCOLOUR:  is often black and white spotted, but also brown and white spotted, black,brown or white # black and white; brown and white; red and white; spotted;black; blackspotted; white; brown; rusty brownSIZE:   is big # bigBUILD:   is big-boned, bony, large-limbed in build # big-boned, bony, large-limbedPARTS:    has an udder, horns and four stomachs: paunch, reticulum, third stomach, properstomach # udder; horns: paunch; rumen; honeycomb bag; reticulum; third stomach;omasum; proper stomach; abomasumFUNCTION:  produces milk and (being slaughtered) meat # milk; flesh; meat; beef; milkproduction; meat productionPLACE:   is kept on a farm; is in the field and in the winter in the byre # farm;farmhouse; field; pasture; meadow; byre; cow-house; shippon; stableAGE:   is adult, has calved # adult; calvedPROPERTY:  is useful and tame; is considered as a friendly, lazy, slow, dumb, curious, socialanimal # tame; domesticated; friendly; lazy; slow; dumb; curious; socialSEX:   is female # femaleBEHAVIOUR:  grazes and ruminates # graze; ruminate; chew the cudTREATMENT:  is milked every day; is slaughtered # milk; slaughterPRODUCT:  produces milk and meat # milk; meatVALUE:   is useful # usefulExample 1.
Semagram for koe (cow)At present the data in the slots is completedmanually by the lexicographers based on in-formation in the ANW corpus, referenceworks (such as dictionaries and encyclopaedia)and their language and world knowledge.
Notall slots in the type template have to be com-pleted in all cases.
Only those for which thereis a value are shown in the above example.
Ascan be seen from the semagram above, thelexicographers give the characterisation of theslots in terms of short statements about theheadword.
Such sentences are particularly wellsuited to get an impression of the meaningstarting from the word form, i.e.
for ?semasi-19ological?
queries.
To facilitate the retrieval forqueries from content or parts of the content tothe matching words, the ?onomasiological que-ries?, those sentences are complemented, aftera ?#?
character (a hash), with one or morekeywords and possibly some synonyms orother relevant words.
The data after the hashwill not be visible to the dictionary user on thescreen though and will only be used insearches by the computer to enhance retrieval.A detailed description of the semagram, in-cluding its origin, motivation and the devel-opment of the type templates and their slots,can be found in Moerdijk (2008).
In this paperwe focus on the strategies that are available foraccessing information in the dictionary and wediscuss the role of the semagrams in this.4 Accessing the dictionaryAs was hinted at in the previous section,semagrams provide an increase and improve-ment in search and query facilities.
This is par-ticularly the case for queries guiding the userfrom content to form.
For instance, a user whocannot think of e.g.
the word apiarist can findthis word through separate content elements(e.g.
?bees?, ?keep?)
that he does know and canuse for a search.
However, with semagrams itis not only possible to go from content to theappropriate word.
It is also possible to retrievea set of words on the basis of one or more con-tent features.
Thus a user can retrieve allnames for female animals in Dutch on the ba-sis of a query combining the field CATEGORYwith the value ?animal?, and a field SEX withthe value ?female?.
In our online dictionary wewish to make all these possibilities available tothe user.Five search options are distinguished:a) word ?
meaning, i.e.
search for in-formation about a word;b) meaning ?
word, i.e.
search for aword starting from its meaning;c) features ?
words, i.e.
search forwords with one or more common fea-tures;d) search for example sentences;e) search for other dictionary informa-tion.We believe that by presenting the search op-tion this way (rather than using the traditionaldichotomy between simple search (a) and ad-vanced search (b, c, d, e)), users have a betteroverview of what they can actually search forand will be more enticed to explore the variousoptions.
Semagrams play a role in the firstthree search options.4.1 Word ?
MeaningThis is the traditional search which allowsthe user to search for information about a wordor phrase in the dictionary.
As this is the basicsearch option, it is offered to the user in a cen-tral place on every page of the interface.
Someform of fuzzy matching will be incorporated totake care of typing errors and incomplete input.The ANW contains a wealth of information.To represent this to the user, we use a variationof the two-panel selector model (Tidwell2005), where two panes are shown next toeach other on the screen.
(Figure 1)The left pane contains a tree structure show-ing all the elements available for the lemma inquestion in the ANW.
These tree structureslook like (and work as) Windows Explorer treestructures.
Advantage is that users know im-mediately how to deal with them.
Thus theelements are hierarchically structured and canbe opened and closed like in Windows Ex-plorer.
The meaning structure (the numberedelements in Figure 1) of the lemma remainsvisible at all times.
This way the user keeps anoverview and can select the information helikes to see on the right-hand-side of the screen.This is shown for the semagram of the firstmeaning of koe (cow) in Figure 1.
The ele-ments are presented in the same order as in thetranslated semagram in Example 1.3On the article screen, the semagram is pre-sented together with the definition.
Its functionis to provide, in a systemized, explicit andconsistent way, more semantic and encyclope-dic information than can be given in the defini-tion.
For the lemma koe (cow), for instance, itgives the user information on sound, colourand parts, which is not present in the definition.At the bottom left of the screen, the user isgiven a direct link to all idioms, proverbs, ex-ample sentences and combinations for thelemma koe (cow).3 Note that the layout is still subject to change during thegraphical design of the interface.20Figure 1 Article screen4.2 Meaning ?
WordBy this we mean the onomasiological searchwhere the user is looking for a word that hehas forgotten or where he wants to knowwhether there is a word for a certain conceptor not.
For instance, a user may want to knowwhether there is a Dutch equivalent for theEnglish cradle snatcher (i.e.
one who weds, oris enamoured of, a much younger person(OED)).Onomasiological searches in electronic dic-tionaries derived from printed dictionarieshave not been very successful so far, mostlybecause such searches are primarily based ondefinitions.
Going from a definition to a wordcan only succeed if the words of the user coin-cide (more or less) with the words in the defi-nition, which is seldom the case (Moerdijk2002).As also pointed out by Sierra (2000) theideal onomasiological search must allow writ-ers to input the concept to be searched forthrough the ideas they may have, using wordsin any order.
The system must be so con-structed that it accepts a wide range of wordswhich it then analyses in order to point theuser to the word that most closely approachesthe concept he had in mind when he started thesearch.Recent work in computational linguisticshas therefore looked at the possibility of usingassociative networks (Zock & Bilac 2004) or acombination of definitions and a resource suchas WordNet (El-Kahlout & Oflazer 2004).It is obvious that the information in the se-magrams plays an essential role in the successof onomasiological queries in the ANW.
How-ever, rather than just accepting a wide range ofwords as input, we believe that the format inwhich the input query is obtained can also helpto increase the success rate.Therefore, we offer the user two alternativesfor onomasiological queries.
First, the user cansearch by giving a definition, a description, aparaphrase or by summing up synonyms orother words that he can associate with theword he is looking for.
This input will be sub-ject to some linguistic analysis includingstemming and removal of stop words.
Second,there is a guided search based on the sema-gram.
The user is asked to choose a category(the semantic class or subclass) from a menu(is it a thing, a person, an animal, a vehicle,etc.?).
This is a subset of the total number ofsemantic classes that are distinguished in theANW.
Once the user has selected a category,21the feature slots of the type template for thatcategory appear on the screen and the user isasked to fill in the value(s) that spring to mind.Again we do not present the full list of featureslots of the type template of that particular se-mantic class, but rather a dozen or so (whichhave been automatically deduced on the basisof completed semagrams), as we do not wantto put off the user with excessively long listswhich he needs to complete before he gets ananswer.
We illustrate this with an example foranimals.Assume the user is looking for the name ofa particular breed of dogs, e.g.
borzoi (barzoiin Dutch), but cannot remember the word.
Inorder to find the answer, he selects the cate-gory ?animal?
from the menu.
He is then pre-sented with a list of features that are character-istic for animals (Figure 2).
He completes themost prominent ones for the animal he isthinking of e.g.
BEHAVIOUR: quiet, intelligentand independent; SOUND: barks; CLASS: grey-hound; PLACE: Russia; SIZE: large; BUILD:strong and graceful; APPEARANCE: long-haired;MOVEMENT: sprinter.Figure 2 Screenshot Meaning ?
WordThe input from the user is then compared tothe data in the dictionary database (semagrams,definitions, lexical relations and ?contex-tants?4).
Now the words behind the hashes arealso involved in the retrieval process and thematching cases (in the best scenario just one!
)are shown.
It is not necessary that the feature-4 We define ?contextants?
as words which do notoccur in direct combination with the headword, butdo occur in a wider context and are semanticallyrelevant for the headword.
This is a separate infor-mation category in the microstructure of the ANW.value combinations match exactly one-to-one.For instance, in our example, one of the valuesgiven for BEHAVIOUR, i.e.
intelligent, matchesthe value for PROPERTY in the semagram forbarzoi (borzoi).The results are then presented in a list, or-dered by relevance.
Each result is accompa-nied by a ?mini definition?5 such that the usercan immediately see which word (sense) he islooking for.5 A shortened version of the definition.224.3 Features ?
wordsThis option is particularly relevant for linguistsand other language professionals.
It enablesthem to gather words that share one or moreidentical features within the main dimensionsof the ANW, i.e.
orthography, pronunciation,morphology, pragmatics, meaning, combina-torics, idioms, etymology.
The semagram is ofcourse active in searches in the semantic do-main.
Its role is to some extent comparable toits role in the search for a word, going fromcontent to form, but users can now search forall the words that belong to a certain semanticclass, for all the words that share one or moreparticular features, or for all the words sharingboth class and certain features, instead ofsearching for a particular word to express aconcept.
Here the user is presented the full listof feature slots that occur in one or more of thepredefined type templates.
This means a totalof nearly 200 features can be searched for.To assist the user in finding his way throughthis forest of criteria, they are presented in astructured way much like the tree structurewhich is used for navigation on the articlescreen.
We illustrate this with an examplequery in Figure 3.
The user starts from anempty query screen.
He is asked to select crite-ria from the tree structure on the left.
By de-fault, the user searches for words, but he canalso search for proverbs or idioms which willresult in a different feature tree as only a sub-set of the criteria that can occur in a query forwords apply to idioms and proverbs.
In ourexample the user wants to find all words forlong-haired animals (semagram) which consistof two syllables and have alternating stress(orthography and pronunciation).
Again barzoi(borzoi) will be among the results.Figure 3 Screenshot Features ?
WordsThis search option can also be used to resolvethe so-called tip-of-the-tongue problems where auser is looking for a word which he cannot ac-cess in his memory, but where he does know, forinstance, what the word looks like (e.g.
its begin-ning, number of syllables) and its part of speech.For example, a user who is unsure whether theparticular breed of dogs he is looking for shouldbe called barzoi or borzoi in Dutch, can find theanswer by specifying that the form ends in ?zoi,the word consist of two syllables, that it is a noun23and that it refers to a breed of dogs (animal cate-gory) with long hairs (appearance).Obviously users will be offered the possibilityto save their queries in a kind of ?search tem-plates?
to avoid having to reconstruct the samequery over and over again.4.4 Search for examplesThis option allows the user to search for examplesentences based on a set of 5 criteria, i.e.word(s), author, source, domain and date.
Forinstance, a user could search for all example sen-tences with the words koe (cow) and schaap(sheep) in the period from 2000 ?
2002 (date).No combo boxes are used for author and source.Although we do not reckon that the user knowswhich authors and sources are cited in the dic-tionary, the lists would be excessively long andwe assume that the user will only use these crite-ria in a search to see which other examples areavailable from a particular author or source hehas retrieved in a previous query.
Users will alsobe offered the possibility to link through to moreexamples of the same source or author by click-ing on a particular source or author on the resultspage.4.5 Search for information about the ANWThe final search option groups primarily diction-ary specific queries and queries of an administra-tive nature, much like a Frequently Asked Ques-tions page.
Here the user will find queries aboutfrequency such as how many lemmas are dedi-cated to lexicalised phrases?
How many namesare there in the dictionary?
How many nouns?How many semagrams?
How many Flemishwords?
It also comprises questions such as whatkind of dictionary is the ANW?
How big is theANW corpus?
Which images are included?5 ConclusionIn this paper we have discussed the functionaldesign of an interface for an electronic dictionaryof Dutch, the ANW.
We have focused on theaccess strategies that are offered and the role se-magrams play in this.
We have shown that sema-grams provide an increase in search and queryfacilities.
One the one hand, they lead to a muchricher and more consistent semantic descriptionin ?semasiological?
queries.
On the other hand,they are particularly well-suited to support?onomasiological?
queries by offering a struc-tured way to find words through separate contentelements.ReferencesEl-Kahlout, ?lknur Durgar & Kemal Oflazer.
2004.Use of Wordnet for Retrieving Words from theirMeanings.
In Proceedings of the Global WordnetConference (GWC2004).
118-123.Moerdijk, Fons.
2002.
Het woord als doelwit.
Am-sterdam, Amsterdam University Press.Moerdijk, Fons.
2008.
Frames and semagrams; Mean-ing description in the General Dutch Dictionary.
InProceedings of the Thirteenth Euralex Interna-tional Congress, EURALEX 2008.
Barcelona.Sierra, Gerardo.
2000.
The onomasiological diction-ary: a gap in lexicography.
In Proceedings of theNinth Euralex International Congress, EURALEX2000  I, 223-235.
Institut f?r Maschinelle Sprach-verarbeitung, Universit?t Stuttgart.Tidwell Jenifer.
2005.
Designing Interfaces.
O?Reilly.Zock, Michael & Slaven Bilac.
2004.
Word lookup onthe basis of association: from an idea to a roadmap.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Enhancing andusing electronic dictionaries, COLING 2004.
29-35.24
