Software Engineering, Testing, and Quality Assurance for Natural Language Processing, pages 31?39,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding a BIOWORDNET by Using WORDNET?s Data Formatsand WORDNET?s Software Infrastructure ?
A Failure StoryMichael Poprat Elena BeisswangerJena University Language & Information Engineering (JULIE) LabFriedrich-Schiller-Universita?t JenaD-07743 Jena, Germany{poprat,beisswanger,hahn}@coling-uni-jena.deUdo HahnAbstractIn this paper, we describe our efforts to buildon WORDNET resources, using WORDNETlexical data, the data format that it comes withand WORDNET?s software infrastructure inorder to generate a biomedical extension ofWORDNET, the BIOWORDNET.
We beganour efforts on the assumption that the soft-ware resources were stable and reliable.
Inthe course of our work, it turned out that thisbelief was far too optimistic.
We discuss thestumbling blocks that we encountered, pointout an error in the WORDNET software withimplications for research based on it, and con-clude that building on the legacy of WORD-NET data structures and its associated soft-ware might preclude sustainable extensionsthat go beyond the domain of general English.1 IntroductionWORDNET (Fellbaum, 1998) is one of the most au-thoritative lexical resources for the general Englishlanguage.
Due to its coverage ?
currently more than150,000 lexical items ?
and its lexicological rich-ness in terms of definitions (glosses) and semanticrelations, synonymy via synsets in particular, it hasbecome a de facto standard for all sorts of researchthat rely on lexical content for the English language.Besides this perspective on rich lexicologicaldata, over the years a software infrastructure hasemerged around WORDNET that was equally ap-proved by the NLP community.
This included,e.g., a lexicographic file generator, various editorsand visualization tools but also meta tools rely-ing on properly formated WORDNET data such asa library of similarity measures (Pedersen et al,2004).
In numerous articles the usefulness of thisdata and software ensemble has been demonstrated(e.g., for word sense disambiguation (Patwardhanet al, 2003), the analysis of noun phrase conjuncts(Hogan, 2007), or the resolution of coreferences(Harabagiu et al, 2001)).In our research on information extraction and textmining within the field of biomedical NLP, we sim-ilarly recognized an urgent need for a lexical re-source comparable to WORDNET, both in scope andsize.
However, the direct usability of the originalWORDNET for biomedical NLP is severely ham-pered by a (not so surprising) lack of coverage of thelife sciences domain in the general-language EnglishWORDNET as was clearly demonstrated by Burgunand Bodenreider (2001).Rather than building a BIOWORDNET by hand,as was done for the general-language EnglishWORDNET, our idea to set up a WORDNET-stylelexical resource for the life sciences was different.We wanted to link the original WORDNET withvarious biomedical terminological resources vastlyavailable in the life sciences domain.
As an obviouscandidate for this merger, we chose one of the ma-jor high-coverage umbrella systems for biomedicalontologies, the OPEN BIOMEDICAL ONTOLOGIES(OBO).1 These (currently) over 60 OBO ontologiesprovide domain-specific knowledge in terms of hi-erarchies of classes that often come with synonymsand textual definitions for lots of biomedical sub-domains (such as genes, proteins, cells, sequences,1http://www.bioontology.org/repositories.html#obo31etc.
).2 Given these resources and their software in-frastructure, our plan was to create a biomedicallyfocused lexicological resource, the BIOWORDNET,whose coverage would exceed that of any of its com-ponent resources in a so far unprecedented man-ner.
Only then, given such a huge combined re-source advanced NLP tasks such as anaphora res-olution seem likely to be tackled in a feasible way(Hahn et al, 1999; Castan?o et al, 2002; Poprat andHahn, 2007).
In particular, we wanted to make di-rect use of available software infrastructure such asthe library of similarity metrics without the need forre-programming and hence foster the reuse of exist-ing software as is.We began our efforts on the assumption that theWORDNET software resources were stable and reli-able.
In the course of our work, it turned out that thisbelief was far too optimistic.
We discuss the stum-bling blocks that we encountered, point out an er-ror in the WORDNET software with implications forresearch based on it, and conclude that building onthe legacy of WORDNET data structures and its as-sociated software might preclude sustainable exten-sions that go beyond the domain of general English.Hence, our report contains one of the rare failure sto-ries (not only) in our field.2 Software Around WORDNET DataWhile the stock of lexical data assembled in theWORDNET lexicon was continuously growing overtime,3 its data format and storage structures, the so-called lexicographic file, by and large, remained un-altered (see Section 2.1).
In Section 2.2, we will dealwith two important software components with whichthe lexicographic file can be created and browsed.Over the years, together with the continuous exten-sion of the WORDNET lexicon, a lot of softwaretools have been developed in various programminglanguages allowing browsing and accessing WORD-NET as well as calculating semantic similarities onit.
We will discuss the most relevant of these toolsin Section 2.3.2Bodenreider and Burgun (2002) point out that the structureof definitions in WORDNET differ to some degree from moredomain-specialized sources such as medical dictionaries.3The latest version 3.0 was released in December 20062.1 Lexicon Organization of WORDNET andStorage in Lexicographic FilesAt the top level, WORDNET is organized accord-ing to four parts of speech, viz.
noun, verb, adjec-tive and adverb.
The most recent version 3.0 cov-ers more than 117,000 nouns, 11,500 verbs, 21,400adjectives and 4,400 adverbs, interlinked by lexicalrelations, mostly derivations.
The basic semanticunit for all parts of speech are sets of synonymouswords, so-called synsets.
These are connected bydifferent semantic relations, imposing a thesaurus-like structure on WORDNET.
In this paper, we dis-cuss the organization of noun synsets in WORDNETonly, because this is the relevant part of WORD-NET for our work.
There are two important seman-tic relation types linking noun synsets.
The hyper-nym / hyponym relation on which the whole WORD-NET noun sense hierarchy is built links more spe-cific to more general synsets, while the meronym /holonym relation describes partonomic relations be-tween synsets, such as part of the whole, member ofthe whole or substance of the whole.From its very beginning, WORDNET was builtand curated manually.
Lexicon developing expertsintroduced new lexical entries into WORDNET,grouped them into synsets and defined appropriatesemantic and lexical relations.
Since WORDNETwas intended to be an electronic lexicon, a datarepresentation format had to be defined as well.When the WORDNET project started more than twodecades ago, markup languages such as SGML orXML were unknown.
Because of this reason, arather idiosyncratic, fully text-based data structurefor these lexicographic files was defined in a way tobe readable and editable by humans ?
and surviveduntil to-day.
This can really be considered as anoutdated legacy given the fact that the WORDNETcommunity has been so active in the last years interms of data collection, but has refrained fromadapting its data formats in a comparable way toto-day?s specification standards.
Very basically,4each line in the lexicographic file holds one synsetthat is enclosed by curly brackets.
Take as anexample the synset for ?monkey?
:4A detailed description can be found in the WORDNETmanual wninput(5WN), available from http://wordnet.princeton.edu/man/wninput.5WN.32{ monkey, primate,@ (any of variouslong-tailed primates (excluding theprosimians)) }Within the brackets at the first position synonymsare listed, separated by commas.
In the exam-ple, there is only one synonym, namely ?monkey?.The synonyms are followed by semantic relations toother synsets, if available.
In the example, there isonly one hypernym relation (denoted by ?@?)
point-ing to the synset ?primate?.
The final position isreserved for the gloss of the synset encapsulated inround brackets.
It is important to notice that thereare no identifiers for synsets in the lexicographic file.Rather, the string expressions themselves serve asidentifiers.
Given the fundamental idea of synsets ?all words within a synset mean exactly the same ina certain context ?
it is sufficient to relate one wordin the synset in order to refer to the whole synset.Still, there must be a way to deal with homonyms,i.e., lexical items which share the same string, buthave different meanings.
WORDNET?s approach todistinguish different senses of a word is to add num-bers from 0 to 15, called lexical identifiers.
Hence,in WORDNET, a word cannot be more than 16-foldambiguous.
This must be kept in mind when onewants to build a WORDNET for highly ambiguoussublanguages such as the biomedical one.2.2 Software Provided with WORDNETTo guarantee fast access to the entries and their rela-tions, an optimized index file must be created.
Thisis achieved through the easy-to-use GRIND softwarewhich comes with WORDNET.
It simply consumesthe lexicographic file(s) as input and creates twoplain-text index files,5 namely data and index.Furthermore, there is a command line tool, WN, anda graphical browser, WNB, for data visualization thatrequire the specific index created by GRIND (as allthe other tools that query the WORDNET data do aswell).
These tools are the most important (and only)means of software support for WORDNET creationby checking the syntax as well as allowing the (man-ual) inspection of the newly created index.5Its syntax is described in http://wordnet.princeton.edu/man/wndb.5WN.2.3 Third-Party WORDNET ToolsDue to the tremendous value of WORDNET for theNLP and IR community and its usefulness as aresource for coping with problems requiring mas-sive amounts of lexico-semantic knowledge, thesoftware-developing community was and continuesto be quite active.
Hence, in support of WORDNETseveral APIs and software tools were released thatallow accessing, browsing and visualizing WORD-NET data and measuring semantic similarity on thebase of the WORDNET?s lexical data structures.6The majority of these APIs are maintained welland kept up to date, such as JAWS7 and JWNL,8and enable connecting to the most recent ver-sion of WORDNET.
For the calculation of vari-ous similarity measures, the PERL library WORD-NET::SIMILARITY initiated and maintained by TedPedersen9 can be considered as a de facto stan-dard and has been used in various experimental set-tings and applications.
This availability of well-documented and well-maintained software is defi-nitely a strong argument to rely on WORDNET asa powerful lexico-semantic knowledge resource.3 The BIOWORDNET InitiativeIn this section, we describe our approach to extendWORDNET towards the biomedical domain by in-corporating terminological resources from the OBOcollection.
The most obvious problems we facedwere to define a common data format and to mapnon-compliant data formats to the chosen one.3.1 OBO OntologiesOBO is a collection of publicly accessible biomed-ical ontologies.10 They cover terms frommany biomedical subdomains and offer structured,domain-specific knowledge in terms of classes(which often come with synonyms and textual defi-nitions) and class hierarchies.
Besides the hierarchy-defining relation is-a, some OBO ontologies provide6For a comprehensive overview of available WORDNETtools we refer to WORDNET?s ?related project?
website (http://wordnet.princeton.edu/links).7http://engr.smu.edu/?tspell/8http://jwordnet.sourceforge.net/9http://wn-similarity.sourceforge.net/10http://www.bioontology.org/33WordNetIndex{ histoblast, simple_col...{  laborinth_support ing ..
.
{ structural_cell, cell_by...{  mesangial_phagocyte, .
.
.
{ ito_cell, perisinusoida_ ...{  .
.
.
}...OBO ontologyin OWL-formatextracted data BioWordNetlexicographicfi leStep 1 :data  ex t rac t ionfrom OBOStep 2:convers ion to  WordNetlexicographic f i lefo rmatStep 3:bui ld ing WordNet  indexusing ?grind?WordNet BrowserWordNet APIInformation RetrievalSimilarity MeasuringAnaphora ResolutionDocument ClusteringStep 4:B ioWordNetindex can beused by var ioussof twarecomponentsand APIs .
.
.Step 5:.
.
.
and fur ther  be processedin  NLP compontentsBioWordNetindex f i leIR and NLPapplicationsFigure 1: From OBO ontologies to BIOWORDNET?
towards a domain-specific WORDNET for biomedicineadditional semantic relation types such as sequence-of or develops-from to express even more complexand finer-grained domain-specific knowledge.
Theontologies vary significantly in size (up to 60,000classes with more than 150,000 synonyms), thenumber of synonyms per term and the nature ofterms.The OBO ontologies are available in various for-mats including the OBO flat file format, XML andOWL.
We chose to work with the OWL version forour purpose,11 since for the OWL language also ap-propriate tools are available facilitating the extrac-tion of particular information from the ontologies,such as taxonomic links, labels, synonyms and tex-tual definitions of classes.3.2 From OBO to BIOWORDNETOur plan was to construct a BIOWORDNET by con-verting, in the first step, the OBO ontologies into aWORDNET hierarchy of synsets, while keeping tothe WORDNET lexicographic file format, and build-ing a WORDNET index.
As a preparatory step, wedefined a mapping from the ontology to WORDNETitems as shown in Table 1.The three-stage conversion approach is depictedin Figure 1.
First, domain specific terms and tax-11http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-semantics/OBO ontology BIOWORDNETontology class synsetclass definition synset glossclass name word in synsetsynonym of class name word in synsetCi is-a Cj Si hyponym of SjCj has-subclass Ci Sj hypernym of SiTable 1: Mapping between items from OBO and fromBIOWORDNET (Ci and Cj denote ontology classes, Siand Sj the corresponding BIOWORDNET synsets)onomic links between terms were extracted sepa-rately from each of the OBO ontologies.
Thenthe extracted data was converted according to thesyntax specifications of WORDNET?s lexicographicfile.
Finally for each of the converted ontologies theWORDNET-specific index was built using GRIND.Following this approach we ran into several prob-lems, both regarding the WORDNET data structureand the WORDNET-related software that we usedfor the construction of the BIOWORDNET.
Con-verting the OBO ontologies turned out to be cum-bersome, especially the conversion of the CHEBIontology12 (long class names holding many specialcharacters) and the NCI thesaurus13 (large number12http://www.ebi.ac.uk/chebi/13http://nciterms.nci.nih.gov/34of classes and some classes that also have a largenumber of subclasses).
These and additional prob-lems will be addressed in more detail in Section 4.4 Problems with WORDNET?s DataFormat and Software InfrastructureWe here discuss two types of problems we foundfor the data format underlying the WORDNET lex-icon and the software that helps building a WORD-NET file and creating an index for this file.
First,WORDNET?s data structure puts several restrictionson what can be expressed in a WORDNET lexicon.For example, it constrains lexical information to afixed number of homonyms and a fixed set of rela-tions.
Second, the data structure imposes a numberof restrictions on the string format level.
If theserestrictions are violated the WORDNET processingsoftware throws error messages which differ consid-erably in terms of informativeness for error tracingand detection or even do not surface at all at the lex-icon builder?s administration level.4.1 Limitations of ExpressivenessThe syntax on which the current WORDNET lex-icographic file is based imposes severe limitationson what can be expressed in WORDNET.
Althoughthese limitations might be irrelevant for representinggeneral-language terms, they do affect the construc-tion of a WORDNET-like resource for biomedicine.To give some examples, the WORDNET format al-lows a 16-fold lexical ambiguity only (lexical IDsthat are assigned to ambiguous words are restrictedto the numbers 0-15, see Section 2).
This forced usto neglect some of the OBO ontology class namesand synonyms that were highly ambiguous.14Furthermore, the OBO ontologies excel in a richerset of semantic relations than WORDNET can of-fer.
Thus, a general problem with the conversionof the OBO ontologies into WORDNET format wasthat except from the taxonomic is-a relation (whichcorresponds to the WORDNET hyponym relation)and the part-of relation (which corresponds to theWORDNET meronym relation) all remaining OBO-specific relations (such as develops-from, sequence-of, variant-of and position-of ) could not be rep-14This is a well-known limitation that is already mentionedin the WORDNET documentation.resented in the BIOWORDNET.
The structure ofWORDNET neither contains such relations nor isit flexible enough to include them so that we facea systematic loss of information in BIOWORDNETcompared to the original OBO ontologies.
Al-though these restrictions are well-known, their re-moval would require extending the current WORD-NET data structure fundamentally.
This, in turn,would probably necessitate a full re-programming ofall of WORDNET-related software.4.2 Limitations of Data Format and SoftwareWhen we tried to convert data extracted from theOBO ontologies into WORDNET?s lexicographicfile format (preserving its syntactic idiosyncrasiesfor the sake of quick and straightforward reusabilityof software add-ons), we encountered several intri-cacies that took a lot of time prior to building a validlexicographic file.First, we had to replace 31 different charac-ters with unique strings such as ?(?
with ?-LRB-?
and ?+?
with ?-PLU-?
before GRIND was ableto process the lexicographic file.
The reason isthat many of such special characters occurringin domain specific terms, especially in designa-tors of chemical compounds such as ?methyl es-ter 2,10-dichloro-12H-dibenzo(d,g)(1,3)dioxocin-6-carboxylic acid?
(also known as ?treloxinate?
withthe CAS registry number 30910-27-1), are reservedsymbols in the WORDNET data formatting syntax.If these characters are not properly replaced GRINDthrows an exact and useful error message (see Table2, first row).Second, we had to find out that we have to replaceall empty glosses by at least one whitespace charac-ter.
Otherwise, GRIND informs the user in terms ofa rather cryptic error message that mentions the po-sition of the error though not its reason (see Table 2,second row).Third, numbers at the end of a lexical item need tobe escaped.
In WORDNET, the string representationof an item is used as its unique identifier.
To dis-tinguish homonyms (words with the same spellingbut different meaning, such as ?cell?
as the func-tional unit of all organisms, on the one hand, andas small compartment, on the other hand) accord-ing to the WORDNET format different numbers from0 to 15 (so-called lexical IDs) have to be appended35Problem Description Sample Error Message Usefulness of Er-ror MessageProblem Solutionillegal use of key characters noun.cell, line 7: Illegalcharacter %high replace illegal charactersempty gloss sanity error - actual pos2145 != assigned pos2143!moderate add gloss consisting of at leastone whitespace characterhomonyms (different wordswith identical strings)noun.rex, line 5: Syn-onym ?electrochem-ical reaction?
is notunique in filehigh distinguish word senses byadding lexical identifiers (usethe numbers 1-15)lexical ID larger than 15 noun.rex, line 4: ID mustbe less than 16: cd25high quote trailing numbers ofwords, only assign lexicalidentifiers between 1-15, omitadditional word sensesword with more than 425charactersSegmentation fault (coredumped)low omit words that exceed the max-imal length of 425 characterssynset with more than 998direct hyponymous synsetsSegmentation fault (coredumped)low omit some hyponymous synsetsor introduce intermediatesynsets with a limited numberof hyponymous synsetsno query result though thesynset is in the index, accesssoftware crashesnone ?
not knownTable 2: Overview of the different kinds of problems that we encountered when creating a BIOWORDNET keeping tothe WORDNET data structure and the corresponding software.
Each problem description is followed by a sample errormessage that GRIND had thrown, a statement about how useful the error message was to detect the source of the errorand a possible solution for the problems, if available.
The last row documents a special experience with data viewersfor data from the NCI thesaurus.to the end of each homonym.
If in a lexicographicfile two identical strings occur that have not been as-signed different lexical identifiers (it does not mat-ter whether this happens within or across synsets)GRIND emits an error message that mentions both,the position and the lexical entry which caused thiserror (cf.
Table 2, third row).Numbers that appear at the end of a lexical item asan integral part of it (such as ?2?
in ?IL2?, a specialtype of cytokine (protein)) have to be escaped in or-der to avoid their misinterpretation as lexical identi-fiers.
This, again, is a well-documented shortcomingof WORDNET?s data specification rules.In case such numbers are not escaped prior to pre-senting the lexicographic file to GRIND the wordclosing numbers are always interpreted as lexicalidentifiers.
Closing numbers that exceed the num-ber 15 cause GRIND to throw an informative errormessage (see Table 2, fourth row).4.3 Undocumented Restrictions andInsufficient Error MessagesIn addition to the more or less documented re-strictions of the WORDNET data format mentionedabove we found additional restrictions that lack doc-umentation up until now, to the best of our knowl-edge.First, it seems that the length of a word is re-stricted to 425 characters.
If a word in the lexico-graphic file exceeds this length, GRIND is not able tocreate an index and throws an empty error message,namely the memory error ?segmentation fault?
(cf.Table 2, fifth row).
As a consequence of this restric-tion, some very long CHEBI class names could nothave been included in the BIOWORDNET.Second, it seems that synsets are only allowed togroup up to 988 direct hyponymous synsets.
Again,GRIND is not able to create an index, if this restric-tion is not obeyed and throws the null memory er-36ror message ?segmentation fault?
(cf.
Table 2, sixthrow).
An NCI thesaurus class that had more than998 direct subclasses thus could not have been in-cluded in the BIOWORDNET.Due to insufficient documentation and utterlygeneral error messages the only way to locate theproblem causing the ?segmentation fault?
errors wasto examine the lexicographic files manually.
We hadto reduce the number of synset entries in the lexico-graphic file, step by step, in a kind of trial and errorapproach until we could resolve the problem.
Thisis, no doubt, a highly inefficient and time consum-ing procedure.
More informative error messages ofGRIND would have helped us a lot.4.4 Deceptive Results from WORDNETSoftware and Third-Party ComponentsAfter getting rid of all previously mentioned errors,valid index files were compiled.
It was possible toaccess these index files using the WORDNET query-ing tools WN and WNB, indicating the index fileswere ?valid?.
However, when we tried to querythe index file that was generated by GRIND for theNCI thesaurus we got strange results.
While WNdid not return any query results, the browser WNBcrashed without any error message (cf.
Table 2, sev-enth row).
The same holds for the Java APIs JAWSand JWNL.Since a manual examination of the index file re-vealed that the entries that we were searching for, infact, were included in the file, some other, up to thisstep unknown error must have prevented the soft-ware tools from finding the targeted entries.
Hence,we want to point out that although we have exam-ined this error for the NCI thesaurus only, the riskis high that this ?no show?
error is likely to biasany other application as well which makes use ofthe the same software that we grounded our ex-periments on.
Since the NCI thesaurus is a verylarge resource, even worse, further manual errorsearch is nearly impossible.
At this point, westopped our attempt building a WORDNET resourcefor biomedicine based on the WORDNET formattingand software framework.5 Related WorkIn the literature dealing with WORDNET and itsstructures from a resource perspective (rather thandealing with its applications), two directions canbe distinguished.
On the one hand, besides theoriginal English WORDNET and the various vari-ant WORDNETs for other languages (Vossen, 1998),extensions to particular domains have already beenproposed (for the medical domain by Buitelaar andSacaleanu (2002) and Fellbaum et al (2006); for thearchitectural domain Bentivogli et al (2004); andfor the technical report domain by Vossen (2001)).However, none of these authors neither mentions im-plementation details of the WORDNETs or perfor-mance pitfalls we have encountered, nor is supple-mentary software pointed out that might be usefulfor our work.On the other hand, there are suggestions concern-ing novel representation formats of next-generationWORDNETs.
For instance in the BALKANETproject (Tufis?
et al, 2004), an XML schema plusa DTD was proposed (Smrz?, 2004) and an editorcalled CISDIC with basic maintenance functionali-ties and consistency check was released (Hora?k andSmrz?, 2004).
The availability of APIs or software tomeasure similarity though remains an open issue.So, our approach to reuse the structure and thesoftware for building a BIOWORDNET was moti-vated by the fact that we could not find any al-ternatives coming with a software ensemble as de-scribed in Section 2.
Against all expectations, wedid not manage to reuse the WORDNET data struc-ture.
However, there are no publications that reporton such difficulties and pitfalls we were confrontedwith.6 Discussion and ConclusionWe learnt from our conversion attempt that the cur-rent WORDNET representation format of WORD-NET suffers from several limitations and idiosyn-crasies that cannot be by-passed by a simple, yetad hoc work-around.
Many of the limitations andpitfalls we found limiting (in the sense what can beexpressed in WORDNET) are due to the fact that itsdata format is out-of-date and not really suitable forthe biomedical sublanguage.
In addition, though wedo not take into doubt that the WORDNET software37works fine for the official WORDNET release, ourexperiences taught us that it fails or gives limitedsupport in case of building and debugging a newWORDNET resource.
Even worse, we have evidencefrom one large terminological resource (NCI) thatWORDNET?s software infrastructure (GRIND) ren-ders deceptive results.Although WORDNET might no longerbe the oneand only lexical resource for NLP each year a con-tinuously strong stream of publications on the use ofWORDNET illustrates its importance for the com-munity.
On this account we find it remarkable thatalthough improvements in content and structure ofWORDNET have been proposed (e.g., Boyd-Graberet al (2006) propose to add (weighted) connec-tions between synsets, Oltramari et al (2002) sug-gest to restructure WORDNET?s taxonomical struc-ture, and Mihalcea and Moldovan (2001) recom-mend to merge synsets that are too fine-grained)to the best of our knowledge, no explicit proposalshave been made to improve the representation for-mat of WORDNET in combination with the adaptionof the WORDNET-related software.According to our experiences the existing WORD-NET software is hardly (re)usable due to insufficienterror messages that the software throws and limiteddocumentation.
From our point of view it would behighly preferable if the software would be improvedand made more user-supportive (more meaningfulerror messages would already improve the useful-ness of the software).
In terms of the actual rep-resentation format of WORDNET we found that us-ing the current format is not only cumbersome anderror-prone, but also limits what can be expressed ina WORDNET resource.From our perspective this indicates the need fora major redesign of WORDNET?s data structurefoundations to keep up with the standards of to-day?s meta data specification languages (e.g., basedon RFD (Graves and Gutierrez, 2006), XML orOWL (Lu?ngen et al, 2007)).
We encourage the re-implementation of WORDNET resources based onsuch a state-of-the-art markup language (for OWL inparticular a representation of WORDNET is alreadyavailable, cf.
van Assem et al (2006)).
Of course, ifa new representation format is used for a WORDNETresource also the software accessing the resource hasto be adapted to the new format.
This may requiresubstantial implementation efforts that we think areworth to be spent, if the new format overcomes themajor problems that are due to the original WORD-NET format.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded by the German Ministryof Education and Research within the STEMNETproject (01DS001A-C) and by the EC within theBOOTSTREP project (FP6-028099).ReferencesLuisa Bentivogli, Andrea Bocco, and Emanuele Pianta.2004.
ARCHIWORDNET: Integrating WORDNETwith domain-specific knowledge.
In Petr Sojka, KarelPala, Christiane Fellbaum, and Piek Vossen, editors,GWC 2004 ?
Proceedings of the 2nd InternationalConference of the Global WordNet Association, pages39?46.
Brno, Czech Republic, January 20-23, 2004.Olivier Bodenreider and Anita Burgun.
2002.
Character-izing the definitions of anatomical concepts in WORD-NET and specialized sources.
In Proceedings of the 1stInternational Conference of the Global WordNet Asso-ciation, pages 223?230.
Mysore, India, January 21-25,2002.Jordan Boyd-Graber, Christiane Fellbaum, Daniel Osh-erson, and Robert Schapire.
2006.
Adding dense,weighted connections to WORDNET.
In Petr Sojka,Key-Sun Choi, Christiane Fellbaum, and Piek Vossen,editors, GWC 2006 ?
Proceedings of the 3rd Inter-national WORDNET Conference, pages 29?35.
SouthJeju Island, Korea, January 22-26, 2006.Paul Buitelaar and Bogdan Sacaleanu.
2002.
Extend-ing synsets with medical terms WORDNET and spe-cialized sources.
In Proceedings of the 1st Interna-tional Conference of the Global WordNet Association.Mysore, India, January 21-25, 2002.Anita Burgun and Olivier Bodenreider.
2001.
Compar-ing terms, concepts and semantic classes in WORD-NET and the UNIFIED MEDICAL LANGUAGE SYS-TEM.
In Proceedings of the NAACL 2001 Workshop?WORDNET and Other Lexical Resources: Applica-tions, Extensions and Customizations?, pages 77?82.Pittsburgh, PA, June 3-4, 2001.
New Brunswick, NJ:Association for Computational Linguistics.Jose?
Castan?o, Jason Zhang, and James Pustejovsky.2002.
Anaphora resolution in biomedical literature.
InProceedings of The International Symposium on Ref-erence Resolution for Natural Language Processing.Alicante, Spain, June 3-4, 2002.Christiane Fellbaum, Udo Hahn, and Barry Smith.
2006.Towards new information resources for public health:38From WORDNET to MEDICAL WORDNET.
Journalof Biomedical Informatics, 39(3):321?332.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WORDNET: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Alvaro Graves and Caludio Gutierrez.
2006.
Data rep-resentations for WORDNET: A case for RDF.
In PetrSojka, Key-Sun Choi, Christiane Fellbaum, and PiekVossen, editors, GWC 2006 ?
Proceedings of the 3rdInternational WORDNET Conference, pages 165?169.South Jeju Island, Korea, January 22-26, 2006.Udo Hahn, Martin Romacker, and Stefan Schulz.
1999.Discourse structures in medical reports ?
watch out!The generation of referentially coherent and valid textknowledge bases in the MEDSYNDIKATE system.
In-ternational Journal of Medical Informatics, 53(1):1?28.Sanda M. Harabagiu, Ra?zvan C. Bunescu, and Steven J.Maiorano.
2001.
Text and knowledge mining forcoreference resolution.
In NAACL?01, Language Tech-nologies 2001 ?
Proceedings of the 2nd Meeting ofthe North American Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 1?8.
Pittsburgh, PA,USA, June 2-7, 2001.
San Francisco, CA: MorganKaufmann.Deirdre Hogan.
2007.
Coordinate noun phrase disam-biguation in a generative parsing model.
In ACL?07 ?Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation of Computational Linguistics, pages 680?687.Prague, Czech Republic, June 28-29, 2007.
Strouds-burg, PA: Association for Computational Linguistics.Ales?
Hora?k and Pavel Smrz?.
2004.
New features ofwordnet editor VisDic.
Romanian Journal of Infor-mation Science and Technology (Special Issue), 7(1-2):201?213.Harald Lu?ngen, Claudia Kunze, Lothar Lemnitzer, andAngelika Storrer.
2007.
Towards an integratedOWL model for domain-specific and general languageWordNets.
In Attila Tana?cs, Dora?
Csendes, VeronikaVincze, Christiane Fellbaum, and Piek Vossen, editors,GWC 2008 ?
Proceedings of the 4th Global WORD-NET Conference, pages 281?296.
Szeged, Hungary,January 22-25, 2008.Rada Mihalcea and Dan Moldovan.
2001.EZ.WORDNET: Principles for automatic genera-tion of a coarse grained WORDNET.
In Proceedingsof the 14th International Florida Artificial Intelli-gence Research Society (FLAIRS) Conference, pages454?458.Alessandro Oltramari, Aldo Gangemi, Nicola Guarino,and Claudio Madolo.
2002.
Restructuring WORD-NET?s top-level.
In Proceedings of ONTOLEX 2002@ LREC 2002.Siddharth Patwardhan, Satanjeev Banerjee, and Ted Ped-ersen.
2003.
Using measures of semantic related-ness for word sense disambiguation.
In Alexander F.Gelbukh, editor, CICLing 2003 ?
Computational Lin-guistics and Intelligent Text Processing.
Proceedingsof the 4th International Conference, volume 2588 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 241?257.Mexico City, Mexico, February 16-22, 2003.
Berlinetc.
: Springer.Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, and Jason Miche-lizzi.
2004.
WORDNET::Similarity: Measuring therelatedness of concepts.
In AAAI?04 ?
Proceedingsof the 19th National Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence & IAAI?04 ?
Proceedings of the 16th Innova-tive Applications of Artificial Intelligence Conference,pages 1024?1025.
San Jose?, CA, USA, July 25-29,2004.
Menlo Park, CA; Cambridge, MA: AAAI Press& MIT Press.Michael Poprat and Udo Hahn.
2007.
Quantitative dataon referring expressions in biomedical abstracts.
InBioNLP at ACL 2007 ?
Proceedings of the Workshopon Biological, Translational, and Clinical LanguageProcessing, pages 193?194.
Prague, Czech Republic,June 29, 2007.
Stroudsburg, PA: Association for Com-putational Liguistics.Pavel Smrz?.
2004.
Quality control and checking forwordnets development: A case study of BALKANET.Romanian Journal of Information Science and Tech-nology (Special Issue), 7(1-2):173?181.D.
Tufis?, D. Christea, and S. Stamou.
2004.
BALKA-NET: Aims, methods, results and perspectives.
a gen-eral overview.
Romanian Journal of Information Sci-ence and Technology (Special Issue), 7(1-2):9?43.Mark van Assem, Aldo Gangemi, and Guus Schreiber.2006.
Conversion of WORDNET to a standardRDF/OWL representation.
In LREC 2006 ?
Proceed-ings of the 5th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation.
Genoa, Italy, May 22-28,2006.
Paris: European Language Resources Associa-tion (ELRA), available on CD.Piek Vossen, editor.
1998.
EUROWORDNET: A Mul-tilingual Database with Lexical Semantic Networks.Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.Piek Vossen.
2001.
Extending, trimming and fusingWORDNET for technical documents.
In Proceedingsof the NAACL 2001 Workshop ?WORDNET and OtherLexical Resources: Applications, Extensions and Cus-tomizations?.
Pittsburgh, PA, June 3-4, 2001.
NewBrunswick, NJ: Association for Computational Lin-guistics.39
