CoNLL 2008: Proceedings of the 12th Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning, pages 113?118Manchester, August 2008Automatic Chinese Catchword ExtractionBased on Time Series AnalysisHan Ren1, Donghong Ji1, Jing Wan2 and Lei Han11 School of Computer Science, Wuhan University 430079, China2 Center for Study of Language & Information, Wuhan University 430072, Chinacslotus@mail.whu.edu.cn, donghong_ji@yahoo.com,jennifer.wanj@gmail.com, hattason@mail.whu.edu.cnAbstractCatchwords refer to those popular wordsor phrases in a time period.
In this paper,we propose a novel approach forautomatic extraction of Chinesecatchwords.
By analyzing features ofcatchwords, we define three aspects todescribe Popular Degree of catchwords.Then we use curve fitting in Time SeriesAnalysis to build Popular Degree Curvesof the extracted terms.
Finally we give aformula that can calculate PopularDegree values of catchwords and get aranking list of catchword candidates.Experiments show that the method iseffective.1 IntroductionGenerally, a catchword is a term whichrepresents a hot social phenomenon or animportant incident, and is paid attention bypublic society within certain time period.
On theone hand, catchwords represent the mass valueorientation for a period.
On the other hand, theyhave a high timeliness.
Currently, there are quieta few ranking and evaluations of catchwordsevery year in various kinds of media.
Only inyear 2005, tens of Chinese organizationspublished their ranking list of Chinesecatchwords.Catchwords contain a great deal ofinformation from any particular area, and suchwords truly and vividly reflect changes of ourlives and our society.
By monitoring and analysisof catchwords, we can learn the change of public?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.attention in time.
In addition, we may detect thepotential changes of some linguistic rules, whichcan help establish and adjust state languagepolicies.Currently, two kinds of approaches areadopted to evaluate catchwords.
One is by CTR(Click-Through Rate) or retrieval times, but thelimitation is that it is just based on frequency,which is only one feature of catchwords.
Theother is by manual evaluation, but it depends ontheir subjective judgment to a large extent.
In thispaper, we propose a novel approach that canautomatically analyze and extract Chinesecatchwords.
By analyzing sample catchwordsand finding out their common features, weprovide a method to evaluate the popular degree.After ranking, terms that have high values arepicked out as catchword candidates.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.In Section 2, we discuss about the linguistic basisof catchword judgment.
In Section 3, we describethe extraction method in detail.
In Section 4, wepresent the experimental results as well as somediscussions.
Finally, we give the conclusion andfuture work in Section 5.2 Linguistic basisThe popularity of a word or phrase contains twofactors: time and area, namely how long it lastsand how far it spreads.
But neither of them havedefinite criterion.2.1 Linguistic definition of catchwordMany researches of catchwords come from purelinguistic areas.
Wang (1997) proposed thatcatchwords, which include words, phrases,sentences or special patterns, are a language formin certain times and among certain groups orcommunities.
Guo (1999) specified thatcatchwords are popular words, which are widely113used in certain period of time among certaingroups of people.
To sum up, catchwords are alanguage form spreading quickly within certainarea in certain period of time.According to Zipf?s Law (Zipf, 1949), theword that has a higher usage frequency is shorterthan others.
Catchwords also follow thisprinciple: most catchwords are words andphrases instead of sentences and longer languageunits, which are more difficult to extractautomatically.
In the paper, we focus oncatchwords as words and phrases.2.2 Features of catchwordSome features of catchwords have been proposed,but there have been few research to quantify andweigh the features.
Zhang (1999) proposed amethod to judge catchwords by weighingCirculating Degree of catchwords, which arebased on Dynamic Circulating Corpus.
But thecorpus construction and the judgment stilldepend on manual efforts.By analyzing usage frequency of catchwords,we find that being a language phenomenonwithin a period of time, a catchword has twofeatures: one is high usage frequency, namely acatchword is frequently used in certain period oftime; the other is timeliness, namely thissituation will lasts for some time.
Ourquantification method is based on these features.3 Extraction MethodIn this section, the extraction method is describedin detail.
After term extraction, the features ofterms are weighed by time series analysis.
Thealgorithm in section 3.4 shows the process toextract catchword candidates.3.1 Term ExtractionCatchwords are words or phrases with maximalmeanings, most of which are multi-characterwords or phrases.
Word segmentation has a lowdiscrimination for long phrases, while termextraction has a better way to extract them.Zhang (2006) proposed a new ATE algorithm,which is based on the decomposition of primestring.
The algorithm evaluates the probability ofa long string to be a term by weighing relationdegree among sub-strings within the long string.The algorithm can raise the precision inextracting multi-character words and longphrases.
In this paper, we use this method toextract terms.3.2 Popular Degree CurveFor extracted terms, a time granularity should bedefined to describe their features.
We select?day?
as the time granularity and get every day?susage frequency for each term in one year.
Thesecan be described as a time series like below:{ }1 2, ,..., ,...,w w w wt wC c c c c= n           (1)wC  is the time series of term w.  is theusage frequency of term w in the day t. n is thenumber of observation days.wtcAs a latent knowledge, two features ofcatchwords mentioned in section 2.2 exist intheir time series.
The effective method to find outthe latent knowledge in the time series is TimeSeries Analysis, which includes linear analysisand nonlinear analysis.
As the time series ofterms belong to nonlinear series, we usenonlinear analysis to deal with them.After getting usage frequency, we use SMA(Simple Moving Average) method to eliminatethe random fluctuation of series .
Theformula is as follows:wC( )1mw t m jjwtccm?
+==?
(2)wtc  is the smoothed usage frequency of termw in the day t and m is the interval.
In SMAmethod, a short interval has a little effect, while along one may result in low accuracy.
So weshould specify a proper interval.
Throughexperiments we find that an appropriate intervalis between 10 and 20.
Smoothed time series is asfollows:{ }1 2, ,..., ,...,w w w wt wC c c c c= n          (3)Smoothed time series of terms can bedescribed as curves, in which the coordinate x isday t and coordinate y is wtc .
Through thesecurves we can see that, catchwords appear incertain period of time and its usage frequencyincreases in this period.
After reaching thehighest point, usage frequency of catchwordsdecrease slowly.
We call this process PopularDegree, which contains three aspects:1) Popular Trend: the increasing process ofusage frequency; the more obviously the populartrend changes, the higher the popular degree is.2) Peak Value: maximum usage frequencywithin certain period of time; the larger the peakvalue is, the higher the popular degree is.1143) Popular Keeping: the decreasing process ofusage frequency; the more gently the popularkeeping changes, the higher the popular degree is.Three aspects above determine popular degreeof catchwords.
Figure 1 shows the smoothedtime series curve of the catchword ????
2 ?evaluated in year 2005:Figure 1.
Smoothed time series curve ofthe catchword ????
?To the catchword ????
?, its Popular Trendchanges obviously and its Popular Keepingchanges gently.
Meanwhile, its Peak Value isrelatively higher than those of most catchwords.So the catchword ?????
has a high PopularDegree.According to three aspects of Popular Degree,smoothed time series curve is separated into twoparts: one is ascending period, namely PopularTrend process; the other is descending period,namely Popular Keeping process.
We use conicfitting to deal with two parts of series.
A conic?sformula is like below:2Y a bt ct= + +According to least square method, a standardequation that can deduce three parameters a, band c is as follows:222 2 3Y na b t c ttY a t b t c tt Y a t b t c t?
= + +??
= + +??
= + +???
?
??
?
?
??
?
?
?34MAssume TS is the starting time, TE is the endingtime, and TM is the time that time series curvereaches the highest point.
According to conicfitting method we can get curves of ascendingand descending period.
Formulas of two conicsare as follows:22( )( )SM Eu a bu cu T t Tv a b v c v T t T???
= + + ?
???
?
?
?= + + ?
???
(4)2 ???
means Sudan red in English.Variable u and v are usage frequency of a termin a day, ( )u?
is the formula of ascending curve,and ( )v?
is the formula of descending curve.
Thecurve described by equation (4) is called PopularDegree Curve.
Figure 2 shows the PopularDegree Curve of the catchword ?????
:Figure 2.
Popular Degree Curve ofthe catchword ????
?3.3 Popular Degree ValueThe decision of catchwords is based on threeaspects of Popular Degree described in section3.2.
We propose a formula to calculate PopularDegree values of terms.
After getting the values,a ranking list by inverse order is established.
ThePopular Degree of a catchword is in the directratio to its place in the ranking list.
The formulais as follows:( ) ( ) ( ) ( )PD w PT w PV w PK w= ?
?
(5)PD(w) is the Popular Degree value of thecatchword w. PT(w) is the Popular Trend valueof w:( ) ( )( )( )M SMT TPT wT?
??
?
?= i                  (6)?
is the adjusting parameter of Popular Trend.The formula indicates that PT(w) is related tochanging process of Popular Degree Curve.PV(w) is the Peak Value of w:{ }{ } { }max( )1max maxwtwt wtwwcPV wc cN?=+?i(7)?
is the adjusting parameter of Peak Value.The formula indicates that PV(w) is related to themaximum usage frequency of w. PK(w) is thePopular Keeping value of w:( ) ( )( ) 1( )M EMT TPK wT?
??
??
?
?= ??
??
?i            (8)?
is the adjusting parameter of PopularKeeping.
The formula indicates that PK(w) isrelated to changing process of Popular DegreeCurve.
Parameter ?, ?
and ?
control proportionof three aspects in Popular Degree value.115All extracted terms are ranked according totheir Popular Degree values.
Terms that havehigh scores are picked out as catchwordcandidates.3.4 AlgorithmThe algorithm of automatic catchwordsextraction is described below:Algorithm Extracting catchwordsInput text collectionsOutput ranking list of catchword candidatesMethod1) use ATE algorithm mentioned in section 3.1 toextract terms2) filter terms that contains numbers andpunctuations3) foreach term4)   calculate its smoothed time series by formula(2)5)   use conic fitting method in section 3.2 to getits Popular Degree Curve like equation (4)6)   use formula (5) ~ (8) to calculate its PopularDegree value7) rank all Popular Degree values from high tolow4 Experimental Results and Analysis4.1 Text CollectionIn the experiment, we use 136,191 web pagescrawled from Sina3?s news reports in year 2005including six categories: economy, science,current affairs, military, sports and entertainment.For the experimental purpose, we extract bodycontent in every web page by using NoiseReducing algorithm (Shianhua Lin & JanmingHo, 2002).
Totally, the extracted subset includes129,328 documents.4.2 Experiment settingsIn the experiment, several parameters should besettled to perform the catchwords extraction.
?nA large time granularity may result in lowaccuracy for conic fitting.
In this paper, weselect ?day?
as the time granularity.
?mFor the interval m in formula (2), a propervalue should be specified to not onlyeliminate random fluctuation but also keep3 http://www.sina.com.cn/accuracy of data.
In the experiment we findthat the proper interval is between 10 and 20.?TS and TECatchwords have a high timeliness, so weshould specify a time domain.
By analysis ofsample catchwords, we find that populartime domain for most of them approximatelylast for not more than 6 months.
So wespecify the time domain is n / 2.
Thus therelationship among the starting time TS andthe ending time TE is below:2S EnT T= ?As a proper example, the starting point canbe 60 days away from the highest point.Thus the Popular Trend process and thePopular Keeping process both last for nearly3 months.
So the relationship can bedescribed as formulas below:4S MnT T ?
?= ?
?
??
?,4E MnT T ?
?= + ?
??
??
?, ?, ?To keep the Popular Degree values ofcatchwords within [0, 1], three adjustingparameters are satisfied to the inequation:0 , , 1?
?
?< ?
.Table 1 shows proper values of parameters asschema 1.
We also give other schemas, whichcontain different values of parameters, tocompare with the schema 1.
In schema 2 toschema 4, default values of parameters are thesame with schema 1.parameter Valuen 365t [1, 365]m 15TS TM ?
?
n / 4?TE TM + ?
n / 4??
1?
1?
1Table 1. parameters in schema 1schema 2: different m valuesschema 3: different values of TS and TEschema 4: different values of ?, ?
and ?4.3 Evaluation MeasureCurrently, there is no unified standard forcatchword evaluation.
In year 2005, NLRMRC116(National Language Resources Monitoring andResearch Centre, held by MOE of China) hadpublished their top 100 Chinese catchwords.
Weuse co-occurrence ratio of catchwords for theevaluation.
The formula of co-occurrence ratio isas follows:CNrN=N is the number of ranking catchwords.
NC isthe co-occurrence of catchwords, namely thenumber of catchwords which appear both in ourapproach and NLRMRC in top N.4.4 ResultsWe use algorithm described in section 3.4 to geta ranking list of catchword candidates.According to ATE algorithm mentioned insection 3.1, we extract 966,532 terms.
Afterfiltering invalid terms we get 892,184 terms andcalculate each term?s Popular Degree value.Table 2 - 5 shows the co-occurrence ratio withschema 1 - 4.N=20 N=40 N=60 N=80 N=1007% 18% 36% 53% 66%Table 2.
Co-occurrence ratio using schema 1m N=20 N=40 N=60 N=80 N=1005 3% 7% 16% 29% 45%10 4% 11% 25% 44% 59%20 7% 15% 32% 49% 63%25 6% 14% 29% 46% 60%Table 3.
Co-occurrence ratio using schema 2TM - TS :TE - TMN=20 N=40 N=60 N=80 N=1001 : 4 0% 3% 8% 15% 22%2 : 3 4% 14% 30% 49% 64%3 : 2 5% 15% 33% 51% 63%4 : 1 2% 5% 12% 21% 26%Table 4.
Co-occurrence ratio using schema 3N=20 N=40 N=60 N=80 N=100?=0.5 3% 9% 24% 42% 55%?=0.8 6% 15% 31% 50% 64%?=0.5 2% 6% 16% 37% 52%?=0.8 5% 13% 29% 47% 59%?=0.5 3% 11% 26% 43% 57%?=0.8 6% 15% 32% 51% 62%Table 5.
Co-occurrence ratio using schema 4Table 2 shows the co-occurrence ratio of thecatchwords extracted by our approach andNLRMRC in top N catchwords ranking list.
Itindicates that, when N is 100, co-occurrence ofthe catchwords reaches 66%; when N is lower,the ratio is also lower.
On the one hand, we cansee that our approach has a good effect onautomatically extracting catchwords, closing tothe result of manual evaluation with theincrement of N. On the other hand, it proves thatdivergence exists between our approach andmanual evaluation in high-ranking catchwords.Table 3 indicates that, the condition of m = 20has a better co-occurrence ratio in contrast withothers in schema 2.
It is because a short intervalhas a little effect, while a long one may result inlow accuracy in SMA.Table 4 indicates that a better performance canbe made when the proportion of TM - TS and TE -TM is close to 1:1.
It proves that Popular Trendprocess is just as important as Popular Keepingprocess.
Therefore the best time domain of thesetwo processes are both n / 4.Three parameters can adjust the weights of PD,PV and PK in formula (5).
Table 5 indicates thatthree factors above are all important for weighinga catchword, while ?
is a little more importantthan ?
and ?.
Therefore, maximum usagefrequency of a catchword is a little moreimportant than two other factors.From Table 2 ?
5 we can see that, parametersin schema 1 is most appropriate for theevaluation.Table 6 shows the ranking list of top 10catchword candidates according to their PopularDegree values:candidates4 PD value???
0.251262????
0.220975??
0.213843?????
0.196326TD-SCDMA 0.185691????
0.166730???
0.154803???
0.137211????
0.121738????
0.120667Table 6.
Popular Degree values of Top 10catchword candidates4  ????
means a talent show by Hunan Satellite.??
means petroleum price?????
means textile negotiation????
means a famous girl called sister lotus???
means STS Discovery OV-103???
means a billiards player named Junhui Ding????
means Six-Party Talks????
means swine streptococcus suis1174.5 AnalysisIn our experiment, Popular Values of somecatchwords by manual evaluation are lower.
Byanalyzing their time series curves, we find thatusage frequencies of these terms are not high.We also find that these catchwords mostly haveother expressions.
Such as the catchword ???????
5 ?
can be also called ?????
6 ?.These two synonyms are treated as one term inmanual evaluation that corresponds to promoteusage frequency.
However, relationship betweenthe two synonyms is not concerned in automaticextraction.
They are treated as separate terms.
Sothe Popular Degree Values of these twosynonyms are not high either.
It proves that partsof catchwords by manual evaluation are collectedand generalized.
A catchword should be treatednot only as a separate word or a phrase, but alsoas a part of a word-cluster, which consist ofsynonymous words or phrases.
Through wordclustering method, we can get an increasingquantity of the co-occurrence of catchwordsbetween our approach and manual evaluations.5 ConclusionsBeing as one aspect of dynamic languageresearch, catchwords have a far-reachingsignificance for the development of linguistics.The paper proposes an approach that canautomatically detect and extract catchwords.
Byanalyzing evaluated catchwords and finding outtheir common feature called popular degree, thepaper provides a method of popular degreequantification and gives a formula to calculateterm?s popular degree value.
After ranking, termsthat have high values are picked out ascatchword candidates.
The result can be providedas a reference for catchword evaluation.Experiments show that automatic catchwordextraction can promote the precision andobjectivity, and mostly lighten difficulties andworkload of evaluation.In the experiment, we also find that somecatchwords are not isolated, but have a strongrelationship and express the same meaning.
Inthe future, we can unite all synonymouscatchwords to a word cluster and calculate thecluster?s popular degree value.
Thus we wouldbe able to achieve a better performance forextraction.5 ??????
means social security system6 ????
is the abbreviation of ?????
?AcknowledgementThis work is supported by the Natural ScienceFoundation of China under Grant Nos.60773011,60703008.ReferencesG.E.P.Box, G.M.Jenkins and G.C.Reinsel.
1994.
TimeSeries Analysis, Forecasting and Control.
ThirdEdition, Prentice-Hall.Richard L. Burden and J.Douglas Faires.
2001.Numerical Analysis.
Seventh Edition, Brooks/Cole,Thomson Learning, Inc., pp.
186-226.Xi Guo.
1999.
China Society Linguistics.
Nanjing :Nanjing University Press.H.
Kantz and T. Schreiber.
1997.
Nonlinear TimeSeries Analysis.
Cambridge University Press, 1997Shianhua Lin, Janming Ho.
2002.
Discoveringinformative content blocks from Web documents.
In:SIGKDD.Dechun Wang 1997.
Introduction to Linguistics.Shanghai: Shanghai Foreign Language EducationPress.George K.Zipf 1949.
Human Behavior and Principleof Least Effort: an Introduction to Human Ecology.Addison Wesley, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Pu Zhang 1999.
On thinking of language sense andCirculating Degree.
Beijing: Language Teachingand Linguistic Studies, (1).Yong Zhang 2006.
Automatic Chinese TermExtraction Based on Decomposition of PrimeString.
Beijing: Computer Engineering, (23).118
