Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (COGALEX 2008), pages 25?31Manchester, August 2008ProPOSEL: a human-oriented prosody and PoS English lexicon formachine learning and NLPClaire BrierleySchool of Games Computing & CreativeTechnologiesUniversity of BoltonDeane RoadBOLTONBL3 5ABcb5@bolton.ac.ukEric AtwellSchool of ComputingUniversity of LeedsLEEDSLS2 9JTeric@comp.leeds.ac.ukAbstractProPOSEL is a prosody and PoS English lexicon,purpose-built to integrate and leverage domainknowledge from several well-established lexicalresources for machine learning and NLP applica-tions.
The lexicon of 104049 separate entries isin accessible text file format, is human and ma-chine-readable, and is intended for open sourcedistribution with the Natural Language ToolKit.It is therefore supported by Python software toolswhich transform ProPOSEL into a Python dic-tionary or associative array of linguistic conceptsmapped to compound lookup keys.
Users canalso conduct searches on a subset of the lexiconand access entries by word class, phonetic tran-scription, syllable count and lexical stress pat-tern.
ProPOSEL caters for a range of differentcognitive aspects of the lexicon?.1 IntroductionProPOSEL (Brierley and Atwell, 2008) is a pros-ody and part-of-speech (PoS) English lexiconwhich merges information from respected elec-tronic dictionaries and databases, and which ispurpose-built for linkage with corpora; for popu-lating tokenized corpus text with a priori linguis-tic knowledge; for machine learning tasks whichinvolve the prosodic-syntactic chunking of text;and for open source distribution with NLTK - thePython-based Natural Language Toolkit (Bird etal, 2007a).??
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons At-tribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.A pronunciation lexicon like ProPOSEL is anintegral part of the front-end natural languageprocessing (NLP) module in a generic text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis system and constitutes anatural way of giving such a system phonetic,prosodic and morpho-syntactic insights into inputtext.
For English, three such resources, originallydeveloped for automatic speech recognition(ASR) and listing words and their phonetic tran-scriptions, are widely used: CELEX-2 (Baayen etal, 1996); PRONLEX (Kingsbury et al 1997);and CMU, the Carnegie-Mellon PronouncingDictionary (Carnegie-Mellon University, 1998).The latter is used in Edinburgh?s state of the artFestival speech synthesis system (Black et al1999) and is included as one of the datasets inNLTK.The starting point for ProPOSEL is CUVPlus1(Pedler, 2002), a computer-usable and human-readable dictionary of inflected forms whichuniquely identifies word class for each entry viaC5 PoS tags, the syntactic annotation schemeused in the BNC or British National Corpus(Burnard, 2000).
CUVPlus is an updated versionof CUV2 (Mitton, 1992), an electronic dictionaryin accessible text file format which in turn de-rives from the traditional paper-based OxfordAdvanced Learner?s Dictionary of Current Eng-lish (Hornby, 1974).Recently, lexica for thirteen world lan-guages, including US-English, have beencreated via the European-funded LC-STARproject (Hartinkainen et al 2003) to address theshortage of language resources in the form ofwide coverage lexica with detailed morpho-syntactic information that meet the needs ofASR, TTS and speech-to-speech translation(SST) applications.
The incorporation of C5 PoS-tags in CUVPlus provides this kind of detail and1http://ota.ahds.ac.uk/textinfo/2469.html25distinguishes this lexicon from other paper-basedand electronic English dictionaries, includingCELEX-2, PRONLEX and CMU; it also facili-tates linkage with machine-readable corpora likethe BNC.However, CUVPlus entries compact PoS vari-ants for a given word form into a single field asin the following example where burning is classi-fied as an adjective, a present participle and anoun in Table 1:burning|AJ0:14,VVG:14,NN1:2|Table 1: Sample from CUVPlus record structureshowing PoS variants for the word form burningAn early operation during ProPOSEL build wastherefore to introduce one-to-one mappings ofword form to word class, as defined by C5, tofacilitate their use as compound lookup keyswhen the lexicon is transformed into a Pythondictionary or associative array (?4).2 ProPOSEL: a repository of phonetic,syntactic and prosodic conceptsThe current revised version of ProPOSEL2 is atext file of 104049 separate entries, each com-prising 15 pipe-separated fields arranged as fol-lows:(1) word form; (2) BNC C5 tag; (3) CUV2 capi-talisation flag alert for word forms which startwith a capital letter; (4) SAM-PA phonetic tran-scription; (5) CUV2 tag and frequency rating; (6)C5 tag and BNC frequency rating; (7) syllablecount; (8) lexical stress pattern; (9) Penn Tree-bank tag(s); (10) default content or function wordtag; (11) LOB tag(s); (12) C7 tag(s); (13) DISCstressed and syllabified phonetic transcription;(14) stressed and unstressed values mapped toDISC syllable transcriptions; (15) consonant-vowel [CV] pattern.sunniest|AJS|0|'sVnIIst|Os%|AJS:0|3|100|JJS|C|JJT|JJT|'sV-nI-Ist|'sV:1 nI:0 Ist:0|[CV][CV][VCC]Table 2: Example entry from ProPOSEL textfileTable 2 shows an example entry showing allfields; subsequent illustrative examples includeonly a subset of fields.
For an explanation offields 3 to 7, the reader is referred to Pedler2April 2008(2002) and Mitton (1992).
A full account of Pro-POSEL build is planned for a subsequent paper,where phonology fields in source lexica (CU-VPlus, CELEX-2 and CMU) and new phonologyfields in the prosody and PoS English lexiconwill be discussed in detail.
The rationale forfields displaying syllable count, lexical stresspattern and CFP status is summarised here insection 3.Four major PoS tagging schemes have beenincluded in ProPOSEL to facilitate linkage withseveral widely used speech corpora: C5 (field 2)with the BNC as mentioned; Penn Treebank(field 9) with Treebank-3 (Marcus et al 1999);LOB (Johansson et al 1986) (field 11) withMARSEC (Roach et al 1993); and C7 (field 12)with the 2 million-word BNC Sampler Corpus.The lookup mechanism described in section 4where a match is sought between (token, tag)tuples in incoming corpus text and ProPOSEL?scompound dictionary keys, also in the form of(token, tag) tuples, is possible for all four syntac-tic annotation schemes represented in the lexi-con.3 Accessing the lexicon through sound,syllables and rhythmic structureOne field of particular significance for Pro-POSEL?s target application of prosodic phrasebreak prediction (?3) is field (8) for lexical stresspatterns, symbolic representations of the rhyth-mic structure of word forms via a string of num-bers.
Thus the pattern for the word form,objec?tivity - with secondary stress on the firstsyllable and primary stress on the third syllable -is 20100.
For some homographs, this lexicalstress pattern can fluctuate depending on part-of-speech category and meaning.
The wordformpresent is a case in point, as demonstrated byfields 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 and 10 for all its entries inProPOSEL shown in Table 3:present | AJ0 | ?preznt | 2 | 10 | C |present | NN1 | ?preznt | 2 | 10 | C |present | VVI | prI?zent | 2 | 01 | C |present | VVB | prI?zent | 2 | 01 | C |Table 3: Rhythmic structure for the homographpresent is inverted when it functions as a verbTwo well established phonetic transcriptionschemes are also represented in ProPOSEL: theoriginal SAM-PA transcriptions in field 4 andDISC stressed and syllabified transcriptions infields 13 and 14 which, unlike SAM-PA and theInternational Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), use a sin-gle character to represent dipthongs: /p8R/ forpair, for example.26Phonology fields in ProPOSEL constitute a rangeof access routes for users.
As an illustration, asearch for like candidates to the verb obliteratemight focus on structure and sound: verbs of 4syllables (fields 2 and 7), with vowel reductionon the first syllable (fields 8 or 14), and primarystress on the second syllable (again, a choice offields as users may wish to use the SAM-PAphonetic transcriptions).
This filter retrievessixty-seven candidates - most but not all of themend in /eIt/ - and includes one oddity amongthe examples in Table 4.
Further examples of livefiltered searches are presented in section 5.Table 4: Sample of 8 candidate verbs retrievedwhich share requested phonological features withthe template verb: obliterate4 ProPOSEL: domain knowledge formachine learningAs previously stated, the rationale for ProPOSELwas to integrate information from different dic-tionaries and databases into one lexicon, custom-ised for language engineering tasks which in-volve the prosodic-syntactic chunking of text.One such task is automated phrase break predic-tion: the classification of junctures (whitespaces)between words in the input text as either breaks(the minority class) or non-breaks.
Typically, themachine learner is trained on PoS-tagged andboundary-annotated text - the speech corpus orgold standard - and then tested on an unseen ref-erence dataset, minus the boundary tags, from thesame corpus.
Finally, it is evaluated by countinghow many of the original boundary locationshave been recaptured or predicted by the model.Phrase break classifiers have been trained onadditional text-based features besides PoS tags.The CFP status of a token - is it a content word(e.g.
nouns or adjectives) or function word (e.g.prepositions or articles) or punctuation mark?
-has proved to be a very effective attribute in bothdeterministic and probabilistic models (Libermanand Church, 1992; Busser et al 2001) and there-fore, a default content-word/function-word tag isassigned to each entry in ProPOSEL in field (10).It is anticipated that further research will suggestmodifications to this default status when the CFPattribute interacts with other text-based features.Syllable counts - field (7) in ProPOSEL - havealready been used successfully in phrase breakmodels for English (Atterer and Klein, 2002).However, they assume uniformity in terms ofduration of syllables whereas we know that inconnected speech, an indefinite number of un-stressed syllables are packed into the gap be-tween one stress pulse (Mortimer, 1985) and an-other, English being a stress-timed language.
Alexical stress pattern, where syllables areweighted 0, 1 or 2, has therefore been included infields (8) and (14) for entries in ProPOSEL be-cause of its potential as a classificatory feature inthe machine learning task of phrase break predic-tion.The thematic programme for PASCAL 3  in2008 focuses on approaches to supplementingraw training data (e.g.
the speech corpus) with apriori knowledge (e.g.
the lexicon) to improveperformance in machine learning.
The prosody-syntax interface is notoriously complex.
Plannedresearch into the phrase break prediction taskwill attempt to incorporate a dictionary-derivedfeature such as lexical stress (field 8 in Pro-POSEL) into a data-driven model to explore thisinterface more fully.5 Implementing ProPOSEL as a PythondictionaryThe Python programming language has a dic-tionary mapping object with entries in the formof (key, value) pairs.
Each key must be uniqueand immutable (e.g.
a string or tuple), while thevalues can be any type (e.g.
a list).
This datastructure can be exploited by transforming Pro-POSEL into a live Python dictionary, where therecommended access strategy is via compoundkeys (word form and C5 PoS tag) whichuniquely identify each lexical entry.
Thus, usinga sample of 4 entries to represent ProPOSEL andversion 0.8 of NLTK, we can use the code inListing 1 (?next page) to convert this mini lexi-con into the new formalism.
The Python diction-ary method returns an as yet unsorted dictionary,where the data structure itself is represented by3Pattern Analysis, Statistical Modelling and Compu-tational Learning research networkhttp://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~neill/thematic08.html('affiliate', "@'fIlIeIt")('caparison', "k@'p&rIs@n")('corroborate', "k@'r0b@reIt")('manipulate', "m@'nIpjUleIt")('originate', "@'rIdZIneIt")('perpetuate', "p@'petSUeIt")('subordinate', "s@'bOdIneIt")('vociferate', "v@'sIf@reIt")27squigs { } and where key : value pairs are sepa-rated by a colon.
Table 5 displays the outputfrom Listing 1 (below), demonstrating how mul-tiple values representing a series of linguisticobservations on syllable count, lexical stress pat-tern and content/function word status have nowbeen mapped to compound keys (cf.
Bird et al2007b, chapter 6; Martelli et al 2005 pp.
173-5).
{('cascaded', 'VVD') : ['3', '010', 'C'],('cascaded', 'VVN') : ['3', '010', 'C'],('cascading', 'VVG') : ['3', '010', 'C'],('cascading', 'AJ0') : ['3', '010', 'C']}Table 5: Output from Listing 1from nltk.book import * # In NLTK 0.9, the import statement would be: import nltk, re, pprintlexicon = """cascaded|VVD|0|k&?skeIdId|Ic%,Id%|VVD:1|3|010|VBD|C|VVD|VBDcascaded|VVN|0|k&?skeIdId|Ic%,Id%|VVN:0|3|010|VBN|C|VVN,VVNK|VBNcascading|VVG|0|k&?skeIdIN|Ib%|VVG:1|3|010|VBG|C|VVG,VVGK|VBGcascading|AJ0|0|k&?skeIdIN|Ib%|AJ0:0|3|010|JJ|C|JJ,JK|JJ,JJB,JNP"""lexicon = [line.split(?|?)
for line in list(tokenize.line(lexicon))]lexKeys = [(index[0], index[1]) for index in lexicon]lexValues = [[index[6], index[7], index[9]] for index in lexicon]proPOSEL = dict(zip(lexKeys, lexValues))Listing 1: Code snippet using Python list comprehensions and built-ins to transform the prosody-PoSEnglish Lexicon into an associative arrayFor linkage with corpora and for annotatinga corpus with the prior knowledge of phonol-ogy contained in ProPOSEL, a match is soughtbetween incoming corpus text in the familiar(token, tag) format and the dictionary keys(?Table 5).
Thus intersection enables corpustext to accumulate additional values whichhave the potential to become features for ma-chine learning tasks.
This lookup mechanismis relatively straightforward for corpora taggedwith C5, the basic tagset used in the BNC.
Forcorpora tagged with alternative schemes (i.e.Penn, LOB, and C7), incoming tokens andtags can either be matched against word formsand PoS tokens in the corresponding tagsetfield in the lexicon, or C5 tags can be ap-pended to each item in the input text such thatlookup can proceed in the normal way.6 Filtered searches and having funwith ProPOSELProPOSEL will be supported by a tutorial, of-fering a range of Python software compatiblewith NLTK, to enable users to prepare the textfile for NLP; to implement ProPOSEL as aPython dictionary; to cross-reference linguisticdata in the lexicon and corpus text; and to cus-tomise searches via multiple criteria.The previous section demonstrated howfine-grained grammatical distinctions in thePoS tag field(s) in ProPOSEL are integral tolinkage with corpora.
It also demonstrated howan electronic dictionary in the form of a simpletext file can be reconceived and reconstitutedas a computational data structure known as anassociative memory or array.
When Pro-POSEL is thus transformed, filtered searchescan be performed on the text itself.Brierley and Atwell (ibid.)
present auto-matic corpus annotations achieved via inter-section of two parallel iterables: ProPOSEL?skeys and a LOB-tagged corpus extract (this isa short extract of 153 tokens just for demon-stration) which also carries equivalent C5 tagsgenerated from the lexicon.
A successfulmatch between C5 tags in both lists results in acorpus sequence object where word tokens andsyntactic annotations have now been comple-mented with prosodic information from se-lected fields in ProPOSEL, as in Table 6:[["aren't", 'BER+XNOT', 'VBB+XX0',['1', '1', 'CF', "'#nt:1"]]Table 6: Entry index of length 3, with wordtoken mapped to LOB and C5 tags plus sylla-ble count, lexical stress pattern, CFP status andsyllable-stress mappingThe corpus sequence object can now bequeried.
Suppose, for instance, we wanted tofind all bi-syllabic prepositions and particles in28this extract.
By specifying part-of-speech andsyllable count, we unearth just one candidatematching our search criteria, as shown in Ta-ble 7:['between', 'IN', 'PRP', ['2', '01','F', "bI:0 'twin:1"]]Table 7: There is one candidate in the 153word extract which meets the condition: PoSequals preposition or particle and syllablecount is 2It is not always necessary to transform Pro-POSEL into a Python dictionary, however.Users can also read in the lexicon textfile, ap-ply Python?s splitlines() method to process thetext as a list of lines, and then apply the split()method, with the pipe field separator as argu-ment, to tokenize each field.
Listing 2 presentsthis much more succinctly:lexicon = open(?filepath?, ?rU?
).read()lexicon = lexicon.splitlines()lexicon = [line.split('|') for line inlexicon]Listing2: Reading in ProPOSEL as a nestedstructureUsers can then perform a search on a de-fined subset of the lexicon.
For example, usersmay wish to retrieve all entries with seven syl-lables from the lexicon.
As well as returningitems like: industrialisation, operating-theatre,and radioactivity, Listing 3 discovers therather intriguing sir roger de coverley!for index in lexicon:if index[6] == '7': # look in the subsetprint index[0] # return word form(s)Listing 3: Searching a subset of the lexiconAnother illustration would be finding wordswhich rhyme.
If we wanted to find all thewords which rhyme with corpus in the lexi-con, we could search field (4), for example,the SAM-PA phonetic transcriptions, for simi-lar strings to /'kOp@s/.
One way of doingthis would be to compile a regular expression,substituting the metacharacter .
for the ?c?
incorpus and then seek a match in the SAM-PAfield4.
We might also look for minimal pairs,replacing the phoneme /s/ with the phoneme/z/ as in /'.Op@z/.
Retaining the apostropheas diacritic for primary stress before the wild-card here imitates the lexical stress pattern forcorpus and is part of the rhyme.
It transpiresthere is only one candidate which rhymes withcorpus in the lexicon and two half rhymes.Listing4 gives us porpoise /'pOp@s/ and thenpaupers /'pOp@z/ and torpors /'tOp@z/.p1 = re.compile("'.Op@s")p2 = re.compile("'.Op@z")sampa = [index[3] for index in lexicon]rhymes1 = p1.findall(' '.join(sampa))rhymes2 = p2.findall(' '.join(sampa))Listing 4: Using regular expressions to retrievebi-syllabic words with primary stress on thefirst syllable that rhyme with corpus7 Cognitive Aspects of the LexiconProPOSEL and associated access tools arepresented to the CogALex workshop audienceto illustrate our approach to enhancing thestructure, indexing and entry points of elec-tronic dictionaries.
As the Call for Papersnotes, ?Access strategies vary with the task(text understanding vs. text production) andthe knowledge available at the moment of con-sultation (word, concept, sound).
Unlike read-ers who look for meanings, writers start fromthem, searching for the corresponding words.While paper dictionaries are static, permittingonly limited strategies for accessing informa-tion, their electronic counterparts promise dy-namic, proactive search via multiple criteria(meaning, sound, related word) and via diverseaccess routes.
?
The goal of this workshop isto perform the groundwork for the next gen-eration of electronic dictionaries, that is, tostudy the possibility of integrating the differ-ent resources ??
ProPOSEL integrates a rangeof different resources, and enables a variety ofaccess strategies, with consultation based onvarious combinations of partial syntactic andprosodic knowledge of the target words.
It ad-dresses the main themes of the workshop:4Note that Python lists start at index 0, hence inListing 4, the SAM-PA field is at position [3] in theinner list of tokenized list fields for each entry.297.1 Conceptual input of a dictionary userHuman users of electronic dictionaries canstart from partial concepts or patterns whenthey are generating a message or looking for a(target) word.
Other papers in the workshopfocus on semantic cues, such as conceptualprimitives, semantically related words, sometype of partial definition, something like syn-sets etc; but speakers/writers may also besearching for a word which matches syntactic,phonetic or prosodic partial patterns, for ex-ample seeking a matching rhythm or rhyme.7.2 Access, navigation and search strategiesThe Call for Papers notes that ?we wouldlike to be able to access entries by word formbut also by meaning and sounds (syllables)?Even if input is given in an incomplete, im-precise or degraded form.?
Meaning is clearlythe main focus of many lexicography re-searchers, but access by sound, rhythm, pros-ody, and also syntactic similarity may alsoprove useful complementary strategies forsome users.7.3 Indexing words and organizing the lexi-conAnother key issue for discussion in the Callfor Papers is robust yet flexible organization oflexical resources: ?Indexing must robustly al-low for multiple ways of navigation and ac-cess?
?.
By building on and integrating withPython and the NLTK Natural Language ToolKit, ProPOSEL can be accessed by other NLPtools or via the standard Python interface fordirect browsing and search.
ProPOSEL is alsoa potential exemplar for lexical entry stan-dardization.
Many lexicographers focus onstandardization of semantics or definitions, butstandardization of syntactic, phonetic and pro-sodic information is also an issue.
Our prag-matic approach is to integrate lexical entriesfrom a range of resources into a standardizedPython dictionary format.7.4 NLP ApplicationsWe initially developed ProPOSEL in the con-text of research in linking lexical, syntacticand prosodic markup in English corpus text,and specifically as a resource for prosodicphrase break prediction (Brierley and Atwell,2007a,b,c).
The software developed within theNLTK architecture has been able to utilizeexisting NLTK tools for PoS-tagging, phrase-chunking and partial parsing; in turn, otherresearchers in these fields may want to use thesyntactic information in ProPOSEL in theirfuture NLP applications, particularly in re-search which attempts to compare or map be-tween alternative tagsets or labeling systems,eg (Nancarrow and Atwell 2007), Atwell andRoberts 2006), (Atwell et al2000), (Teufel1995).8 ConclusionsThe English lexicon presented in this paper, - arevised version to that reported in (Brierleyand Atwell, 2008), - is an assembly of domainknowledge of phonology and syntax from sev-eral widely used lexical resources.
Linkagewith corpora is facilitated by the inclusion offour variant PoS tagging schemes in the lexi-con and by re-thinking and reconstituting thelexicon as a Python dictionary or associativearray.
A successful match between (token, tag)pairings in input text and new linguistic anno-tations mapped to ProPOSEL?s compoundkeys will in turn embed a priori knowledgefrom the lexicon in data-driven models derivedfrom a corpus and enhance performance inmachine learning.
The lexicon is also human-oriented (de Schryver, 2003).
ProPOSEL?ssoftware tools are compatible with NLTK andenable users to define and search a subset ofthe lexicon and access entries by word class,phonetic transcription, syllable count andrhythmic structure.
ProPOSEL was initiallydeveloped as a language engineering resourcefor use in our own research, but in the processof development we have also addressed sev-eral more general issues relating to cognitiveaspects of the lexicon: the partial patterns inthe mind of a dictionary user; the need for ac-cess and search by sound, rhythm, prosody,and also syntactic similarity; robust and stan-dardised organization of lexical entries fromdifferent sources; and ease of integration intoNLP applications.ReferencesAtterer M., and E. Klein.
2002.
Integrating Lin-guistic and Performance-Based Constraints forAssigning Phrase Breaks.
In Proceedings ofColing 2002:29-35.Atwell, E., G. Demetriou, J. Hughes, A. Schriffin,C.
Souter, S. Wilcock.
2000.
A comparativeevaluation of modern English corpus grammati-cal annotation schemes.
ICAME Journal, vol.24, pp.
7-23.30Atwell, E. and A. Roberts.
2006.
Combinatory hy-brid elementary analysis of text.
In Kurimo, M,Creutz, M & Lagus, K (editors) Proceedings ofthe PASCAL Challenge Workshop on Unsuper-vised Segmentation of Words into Morphemes.Venice.Baayen, R. H., R. Piepenbrock, and L. Gulikers1996.
CELEX2 Linguistic Data Consortium,PhiladelphiaBird, S., E. Loper, and E. Klein 2007a.
NLTK-lite0.8 beta [June 2007] Available online from:http://nltk.sourceforge.net/index.php/Main_Page(accessed: 21/06/07).Bird, S., E. Klein, and E. Loper 2007b.
NaturalLanguage Processing Available online from:http://nltk.sourceforge.net/index.php/Book (ac-cessed: 21/09/07).Black A.W., P. Taylor, and R. Caley.
1999.
TheFestival Speech Synthesis System: SystemDocumentation Festival version 1.4 Availableonline from:http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/manual/festival_toc.html (Accessed: 07/03/08)Brierley, C. and E. Atwell.
2007a.
Corpus-basedevaluation of prosodic phrase break predictionin: Proceedings of Corpus Linguistics 2007,Birmingham University.Brierley, C. and E. Atwell.
2007b.
An approach fordetecting prosodic phrase boundaries in spokenEnglish.
ACM Crossroads journal, vol.
14.1.Brierley, C. and E. Atwell.
2007c.
Prosodic phrasebreak prediction: problems in the evaluation ofmodels against a gold standard.
TraitementAutomatique des Langues, vol.
48.1.Brierley, C. and E. Atwell.
2008 ProPOSEL: aProsody and POS English Lexicon for LanguageEngineering.
In Proceedings of LREC?08 Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation Conference,Marrakech, Morocco.
May 2008.Burnard, L.
(ed.)
2000.
Reference Guide for theBritish National Corpus (World Edition) Avail-able online from:http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/docs/userManual/(accessed: 20/05/07).Busser, B. W. Daelemans, and A. van den Bosch2001.
Predicting phrase breaks with memory-based learning.
4th ISCA Tutorial and ResearchWorkshop on Speech Synthesis.
Edinburgh,2001.Carnegie-Mellon University 1998.
The CMU Pro-nouncing Dictionary (v. 0.6) Available onlinefrom: http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/cgi-bin/cmudict (accessed: 21/06/07).Hartinkainen, E., G. Maltese, A. Moreno, S. Sham-mass, U. Ziegenhain 2003.
Large Lexica forSpeech-to-Speech Translation: frm specificationto creation.
EUROSPEECH-2003:1529-1532.Hornby, A.S. 1974.
Oxford Advanced Learner?sDictionary of Current English (third edition)Oxford: Oxford University PressJohansson, S; Atwell, E S; Garside, R; Leech, G.1986.
The Tagged LOB Corpus - User Manual,160pp, Bergen, Norwegian Computing Centrefor the Humanities.Kingsbury, P., S. Strassel, C. McLemore, and R.MacIntyre 1997.
CALLHOME American Eng-lish Lexicon (PRONLEX) Linguistic Data Con-sortium, PhiladelphiaLiberman, M.Y., and K.W.
Church 1992.
TextAnalysis and Word Pronunciation in Text-to-Speech Synthesis.
In Furui, S., and Sondhi,M.M., (eds.)
Advances in Speech Signal Proc-essing New York, Marcel Dekker, Inc.Marcus, M.P., B. Santorini, M.A.
Marcinkiewicz,and A. Taylor 1999.
TREEBANK-3 LinguisticData Consortium, PhiladelphiaMartelli, A., A. Martelli Ravenscroft, and D.Ascher 2005.
Python Cookbook (second edition)Sebastopol: O?Reilly Media, Inc.Mitton, R. 1992.
A description of a computer-usable dictionary file based on the Oxford Ad-vanced Learner?s Dictionary of Current EnglishAvailable online and accessed (22/03/08) from:http://comp.lin.msu.edu/stabler-notes/1850/ascii_0710-2.txtMortimer, C. 1985.
Elements of Pronunciation.Cambridge: Cambridge University PressNancarrow, O. and E. Atwell.
2007.A comparativestudy of the tagging of adverbs in modern Eng-lish corpora Proceedings of Corpus Linguistics2007.
Birmingham University.Pedler, J.
2002.
CUVPlus [Electronic Resource]Oxford Text Archive Available online from:http://ota.ahds.ac.uk/textinfo/2469.html (ac-cessed: 21/06/07)Roach P., G. Knowles, T. Varadi and S.C. Arn-field.
1993.
Marsec: A machine-readable spokenEnglish corpus Journal of the InternationalPhonetic Association, vol.
23, no.
1, pp.
47?53.Schryver, G. M. de.
2003.
Lexicographers?
Dreamsin the Electronic-Dictionary Age.
InternationalJournal of Lexicography 2003 16(2):143-199Teufel, S.. 1995.
A support tool for tagset mapping.Proceedings of SIGDAT 1995.
Workshop in co-operation with EACL 95, Dublin31
