BioNLP 2008: Current Trends in Biomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 116?117,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Language Models to Identify Language Impairment inSpanish-English Bilingual ChildrenThamar SolorioDepartment of Computer ScienceThe University of Texas at Dallastsolorio@hlt.utdallas.eduYang LiuDepartment of Computer ScienceThe University of Texas at Dallasyangl@hlt.utdallas.edu1 IntroductionChildren diagnosed with Specific Language Impair-ment (SLI) experience a delay in acquisition of cer-tain language skills, with no evidence of hearing im-pediments, or other cognitive, behavioral, or overtneurological problems (Leonard, 1991; Paradis etal., 2005/6).
Standardized tests, such as the Test forEarly Grammatical Impairment, have shown to havegreat predictive value for assessing English speakingmonolingual children.
Diagnosing bilingual chil-dren with SLI is far more complicated due to thefollowing factors: lack of standardized tests, lack ofbilingual clinicians, and more importantly, the lackof a deep understanding of bilingualism and its im-plications on language disorders.
In addition, bilin-gual children often exhibit code-switching patternsthat will make the assessment task even more chal-lenging.
In this paper, we present preliminary re-sults from using language models to help discrim-inating bilingual children with SLI from Typically-Developing (TD) bilingual children.2 Our ApproachWe believe that statistical inference can assist inthe problem of accurately discriminating languagepatterns indicative of SLI.
In this work, we useLanguage Models (LMs) for this task since they area powerful statistical measure of language usageand have been successfully used to solve a varietyof NLP problems, such as text classification, speechrecognition, hand-writing recognition, augmenta-tive communication for the disabled, and spellingerror detection (Manning and Schu?tze, 1999).LMs estimate the probability of a word sequenceW = ?w1, ...wk?
as follows (using the chain rule):p(W ) = ?ki=1 p(wi|w1, .
.
.
, wi?1)which can be approximated using an N-gram as:p(W ) ?
?ki=1 p(wi|wi?N+1, wi?N+2, ..., wi?1)Since in our problem we are interested in differ-entiating syntactic patterns, we will train the LMson Part-of-Speech (POS) patterns instead of words.Using a 3-gram we have:p(T ) = ?ki=1 p(ti|ti?2, ti?1)where T = ?t1, t2, ..., tk?
is the sequence of POStags assigned to the sequence of words W .The intuition is that the language patterning of anSLI child will differ from those of TD children attwo different levels: one is at the syntactic level,and the second one is at the interaction betweenboth languages in patterns such as code-switching.Given that the tagset for each language is differ-ent, by using the POS tags we will incorporate intothe model the syntactic structure together with theswitch points across languages.We train two LMs with the POS sequences: MT ,with data from the TD children and MI , with datafrom the SLI bilingual children.
Once both LMs aretrained, then we can use them to make predictionsover new speech samples of bilingual children.
Todetermine whether an unobserved speech sample islikely to belong to a child suffering from SLI, wewill measure the perplexity of the two LMs over thePOS patterns of this new speech sample.
We makethe final decision using a threshold:d(s) ={SLI if (PPT (s) ?
PPI(s)) > 0TD otherwise116where PPT (s) is the perplexity of the model MTover the sample s, and PPI(s) is the perplexity ofthe model MI over the same sample s. In otherwords, if the perplexity of the LM trained on syn-tactic patterns of children with SLI is smaller thanthat of the LM trained on POS patterns of TD chil-dren, then we will predict that the sample belongs toa child with SLI.In a related work, (Roark et al, 2007) exploredthe use of cross entropy of LMs trained on POS tagsas a measure of syntactic complexity.
Their resultswere inconsistent across language tasks, which maybe due to the meaning attached to cross entropy inthis setting.
Unlikely patterns are a deviation fromwhat is expected; they are not necessarily complexor syntactically rich.3 Preliminary ResultsWe empirically evaluated our approach using tran-scripts that were made available by a speech pathol-ogist in our team.
The TD samples were comprisedof 5 males and 4 females between 48 and 72 monthsold.
The children were identified as being bilingualby their parents, and according to parental report,these children live in homes where Spanish is spo-ken an average of 46.3% of the time.
Languagesamples of SLI bilinguals were collected from chil-dren being served in the Speech and Hearing Clinicat UTEP.
The samples are from two females aged53 and 111 months.
The clients were diagnosedwith language impairment after diagnostic evalua-tions which were conducted in Spanish.
The tran-scriptions were POS tagged with the bilingual taggerdeveloped by (Solorio et al, 2008).Table 1 shows the preliminary results using crossvalidation.
With the decision threshold outlinedabove, out of the 9 TD children, the models wereable to discriminate 7 as TD; from the 2 SLI chil-dren both were correctly identified as SLI.
Althoughthe results presented above are not conclusive due tothe very small size corpora at hand, they look verypromising.
Stronger conclusions can be drawn oncewe collect more data.4 Final RemarksThis paper presents very promising preliminary re-sults on the use of LMs for discriminating patternsTable 1: Perplexity and final output of the LMs for thediscrimination of SLI and TD.Sample PPT (s) PPI(s) d(s)TD1 14.73 23.12 TDTD2 11.37 16.17 TDTD3 18.35 36.58 TDTD4 30.23 22.27 SLITD5 9.42 15.50 TDTD6 17.37 36.75 TDTD7 20.32 33.19 TDTD8 16.40 24.47 TDTD9 24.35 23.71 SLISLI1 20.21 19.10 SLISLI2 19.70 12.43 SLIaverage TD 18.06 25.75 TDaverage SLI 19.95 15.76 SLIindicative of SLI in Spanish-English bilingual chil-dren.
As more data becomes available, we expectto gather stronger evidence supporting our method.Our current efforts involve collecting more samples,as well as evaluating the accuracy of LMs on mono-lingual children with and without SLI.AcknowledgementsThanks to Bess Sirmon Fjordbak for her contribution tothe project and the three anonymous reviewers for theiruseful comments.ReferencesL.
B. Leonard.
1991.
Specific language impairment asa clinical category.
Language, Speech, and HearingServices in Schools, 22:66?68.C.
D. Manning and H. Schu?tze.
1999.
Foundations ofStatistical Natural Language Processing.
The MITPress.J.
Paradis, M. Crago, and F. Genesee.
2005/6.
Domain-general versus domain-specific accounts of specificlanguage impairment: Evidence from bilingual chil-drens acquisition of object pronouns.
Language Ac-quisition, 13:33?62.B.
Roark, M. Mitchell, and K. Hollingshead.
2007.
Syn-tactic complexity measures for detecting mild cogni-tive impairment.
In BioNLP 2007: Biological, trans-lational, and clinical language processing, pages 1?8,Prague, June.
ACL.T.
Solorio, Y. Liu, and B. Medina.
2008.
Part-of-speechtagging English-Spanish code-switched text.
Submit-ted to Natural Language Engineering.117
