The Use of Spatial Relations in Referring Expression GenerationJette ViethenCentre for Language TechnologyMacquarie UniversitySydney, Australiajviethen@ics.mq.edu.auRobert DaleCentre for Language TechnologyMacquarie UniversitySydney, Australiardale@ics.mq.edu.auAbstractThere is a prevailing assumption in the litera-ture on referring expression generation that re-lations are used in descriptions only ?as a lastresort?, typically on the basis that includingthe second entity in the relation introduces anadditional cognitive load for either speaker orhearer.
In this paper, we describe an experiemtthat attempts to test this assumption; we de-termine that, even in simple scenes where theuse of relations is not strictly required in orderto identify an entity, relations are in fact oftenused.
We draw some conclusions as to whatthis means for the development of algorithmsfor the generation of referring expressions.1 IntroductionIn recent years, researchers working on referringexpression generation have increasingly moved to-wards collecting their own data on the human pro-duction of referring expressions (REs) (Krahmer andTheune, 2002; van der Sluis and Krahmer, 2004;Gatt and van Deemter, 2006; Belz and Varges,2007); and the recent Attribute Selection in theGeneration of Referring Expressions (ASGRE) Chal-lenge used the TUNA corpus (Gatt et al, 2007),which is the most extensive collection of referringexpressions to date.
While there is a substantialbody of experimental work in psycholinguistics thatlooks at the human production of referring expres-sions (see, amongst more recent work, (Clark andWilkes-Gibbs, 1986; Stevenson, 2002; Haywood etal., 2003; Jordan and Walker, 2005)) the large rangeof factors that play a role in language productionmean that it is often the case that the specific ques-tion that one is interested in has not been studiedbefore.
So, NLG researchers have tended towardsdata gathering exercises that explore some specificaspect of referring expression generation, focussingon hypotheses relevant to algorithm development.This paper is in the same mold.
We are particuarlyinterested in how people use spatial relations in re-ferring expressions, and so in this paper we describean experiment that explores the generation of rela-tional referring expressions in a simple scene.
Sec-tion 2 elaborates on our reasons for exploring thisaspect of reference.
Section 3 describes the exper-iment and provides some discussion of the results:our primary conclusion is that the assumption in theliterature that relations are used ?as a last resort?
doesnot appear to hold; relations are often used, even insimple scenes, when they are not strictly required,and it is likely that they would be more heavily usedin more complex real-world scenes.
We concludein Section 4 with some observations as to how theresults presented here might impact on the develop-ment of algorithms for referring expression genera-tion, and outline some future work.2 Spatial Relations in ReferringExpression GenerationThe bulk of the existing literature on referring ex-pression generation (see, for example, Dale (1989),Dale and Reiter (1995), van Deemter (2006), Ho-racek (2004), Gatt and van Deemter (2006)) gener-ally focuses on the use of non-relational properties,which can either be absolute (for example, colour) orrelative (for example, size).
We are interested in the59use of relational expressions, and in particular theuse of spatial relations; the contexts of use we areinterested in are task-specific, where, for example,we might want an omniscient domestic agent to tellus where we have placed a lost object (You left yourkeys under the folder on the desk .
.
.
), or to identifya hearer-new object in a cluttered scene (the maga-zine at the bottom of the pile of papers next to thelampshade in the corner).
To develop agents withthese kinds of referential capabilities, we want to ac-quire data that will inform the development of algo-rithms, either by automatically checking their abilityto replicate the corpus, or as a baseline for assessingthe performance of humans in an identification taskbased on the output of these algorithms.In this paper, we describe an experiment thatlooks at how and when people use spatial relationsin a simple scene.
More specifically, we aim to ex-plore the hypothesis that relations are always dispre-ferred over non-relational properties.
This hypothe-sis appears to underly most approaches to referringexpression generation that handle relations:Gardent (2002) adopts a constraint based ap-proach to deal with relations specifically geared atgenerating referring expressions that are as short aspossible.
As including a relation in a referring ex-pression always entails the additional mention ofat least a head noun for the related object, this ap-proach inherently prefers properties over relations.Krahmer and Theune (2002) extend the Incremen-tal Algorithm (IA; Dale and Reiter (1995)) to han-dle relations.
This requires a preference list over allproperties and relations to be specified in advance.They explicitly choose to put spatial relations rightat the end of that preference list, on the basis that ?Itseems an acceptable assumption that people preferto describe an object in terms of simple properties,and only shift to relations when properties do notsuffice [.
.
. ]
it takes less effort to consider and de-scribe only one object?.As the referents in Varges?
2005 domain are allpoints on a map distinguishable only by their spatialrelations to other objects, he has no choice but to userelations.
However, he also adopts brevity as a maincriterion for choosing which spatial relations to use.Kelleher and Kruijff (2005, 2006) cite Clark andWilkes-Gibbs?
(1986) Principle of Minimal Cooper-ative Effort and Dale and Reiter?s (1995) Principleof Sensitivity, as well as van der Sluis and Krah-mer?s (2004) production study, to motivate the or-dering over the types of properties that can be usedby their system; accordingly, their system only in-cludes spatial (and hence relational) information ina referring expression if it is not possible to constructa description from non-relational properties.These approaches would appear to favour the pro-duction of referring expressions containing long se-quences of non-relational properties when a singlerelational property might do the job.
We are inter-ested, then, in whether it really is the case that rela-tional expressions are dispreferred, and in determin-ing when they might in fact be preferred.To date, we are not aware of any substantial datasets that would allow this question to be explored.Both the TUNA corpus (Gatt et al, 2007) and theMacquarie Drawer data (Viethen and Dale, 2006)contain too few relational descriptions to allow usto draw conclusions about any kind of patterns; theGREC corpus (Belz and Varges, 2007) is not con-cerned with content selection at all, but rather stud-ies the form of referring expressions used over awhole text; i.e.
the choice between fully descriptiveNPs, reduced NPs, one-anaphora and pronouns.There are a number of corpora resulting from ex-periments involving human participants which con-tain referring expressions, such as Brennan andClark?s (1996) collection of tangram descriptions,the HCRC Map Task Corpus (Thompson et al,1993), the COCONUT corpus (Jordan and Walker,2005), and Byron and Fosler-Lussier?s (2006) OSUQuake corpus.
However, these contain wholeconversations between communicative partners co-operating on a task, making it difficult to factor outthe impact of prior discourse context on the referringexpressions used.3 The Data Gathering Experiment3.1 General overviewWe conducted a web-based production experimentto elicit referring expressions describing singular ob-jects in very simple scenes.
The study was aimedat shedding light on the question of whether spatialrelations are indeed as dispreferred as suggested bythe literature in those situations where non-relationaldescriptions are possible.60The Desiderata section of the report from theWorkshop on Shared Tasks and Comparative Eval-uation in NLG (Paris et al, 2007) emphasises thedifficulties inherent in evaluating NLG systems dueto the context dependency of language production:the output appropriate for any given referring ex-pression generation system entirely depends on theparticular task being performed.
The data gatheredin this experiment is intended to inform the develop-ment and evaluation of algorithms for the productionof one-shot, fully distinguishing descriptions of sim-ple objects in 3-dimensional scenes.
The experimentis focussed on the adequate use of spatial relations inreferring expressions.In designing the materials for the experiment, wewere conscious of a number of factors which wemight expect to have an influence on the use of spa-tial relations: the prominence of other propertiessuch as colour and size (i.e.
whether most objectsare of the same or similar size and colour, so thatnone are very distinct from the point of view of theirdirect properties); how easy it is to distinguish thetarget from the other objects around it; how easy itis to identify the target in the scene without usingany locational information; and the visual salienceof other objects which could serve as relatees in re-lational descriptions.3.2 Method3.2.1 ParticipantsIn total, 74 participants completed the experiment.They were recruited by emailing 120 native Englishspeakers and asking them to pass on the call for par-ticipation to other native or fluent English speakers.This resulted in a range of participants from a widevariety of backgrounds and age groups; most partic-ipants were in their early or mid twenties.One participant indicated they were colour-blind,and another requested that their data be discarded.The data for a further nine participants was ex-cluded from the analysis for reasons outlined in Sec-tion 3.2.4 below.
Of the remaining 63 participants,34 were male and 29 were female.3.2.2 MaterialsThe stimuli for this study consisted of 20 jpegimages of simple scenes generated using GoogleSketchUp.
Each scene contained three objects; eachFigure 1: Trial Set 1: The five base configurations 1?5and their counterparts 6?10 using the other type of target?landmark relation and orientation.object was either a sphere or a cube.
The objectscould also be either large or small and were one oftwo colours; scenes either contained blue and greenobjects, or red and yellow objects.
The target ob-ject, to be described by the participant, was markedby a grey arrow pointing to it; the target was al-ways located either directly in front of or on top ofone of the other two objects.
We will refer to thisother related object as the landmark, although thereis of course no guarantee that participants actuallyincluded it into the description as the ground objectin a spatial relation.
The third object, which we referto as the distractor, was located either to the left orthe right of the target and landmark objects.The 20 scenes are generated from five base con-figurations, differing in the type and size of the ob-jects pictured.
Figure 1 shows the five base configu-rations.
They can be categorised by the length of theshortest possible description for the target object:?
in two of the base configurations it is possibleto identify the target object using its type only;?
in one base configuration size alone would suf-61fice, although in line with past observations inthe literature we would expect that type is al-ways included as well;?
in one base configuration, colour and type areboth necessary; and?
in the final base configuration, both size andcolour are necessary, and again we would ex-pect type to be included.Importantly, there is no configuration in which thespatial relations between the objects are required inorder to identify the target.For each base configuration, we generated twoscenes: in one scene, the target is located on top ofthe landmark object, and in the other, the target liesin front of the landmark.
This allows us to investi-gate whether people prefer to use one type of spatialrelation more than the other.Five of the resulting 10 scenes were in the blue?green colour scheme, while the other five used redand yellow.
The different colour schemes were anattempt to decrease the monotony of the task, sothat we could show each participant more scenes.These 10 scenes, numbered 1 through 10, consti-tuted our first trial set.
A second trial set, with scenesnumbered 11 through 20, was generated by produc-ing the mirror image of each scene and using theopposite colour scheme.
Mirroring the scenes hadthe same purpose as using the two different colourschemes.
However, to be able to control any un-wanted effect of these two variables we always usedboth variants.13.2.3 ProcedureOn the experiment website, each participant wasshown the scenes from one of the two trial sets inthe order of the scene numbers.
Under each scene,they had to complete the sentence Please, pick upthe .
.
.
as if they were describing the object markedby the arrow to an onlooker.To encourage the use of fully distinguishing refer-ring expressions, participants were told that they hadonly one chance at describing the object.
They wereshown a sample scene for which they could providean unrecorded (and unchecked) description.
After1For brevity, where relevant we will use the form ?Scenesn+m?
to refer to paired scenes across the two trial sets.being presented with all ten scenes in the trial, par-ticipants were asked to complete an exit question-naire, which also gave them the option of havingtheir data discarded, and asked for their opinion onwhether the task became easier over time, and anyother comments they might wish to make.3.2.4 Data Processing740 descriptions were elicited in the experiment.
10of these were discarded in line with the participant?srequest, and 10 because the participant reported thatthey were colour-blind.
After the data was cleanedand parsed, another 90 descriptions from 9 partici-pants were discarded:?
One participant had consistently produced ex-tremely long and complex descriptions usingthe ternary relation between and direct refer-ence to the onlooker, the ground and parts ofthe objects: a typical example is the red cubewhich rests on the ground and is between youand the yellow cube of equal size.
While thesedescriptions are interesting, in relation to therest of the data they are such outliers that noreal conclusions can be drawn from them.?
A further eight participants consistently usedhighly under-specified descriptions.
We de-cided to discard the data from these participantssince it seemed that they had not understoodthe need to provide a distinguishing descrip-tion, rather than, for example, just indicatingthe type of the object.2This resulted in a total of 630 referring expressions,with 30 for each scene in Trial Set 1 and 33 for eachscene in Trial Set 2.
We then applied some normal-isation steps: the data was stripped of punctuationmarks and other extraneous material (such as repe-tition of the Please, pick up the); in four cases, thedynamic spatial preposition from was deleted fromdescriptions such as the green ball from on top ofthe blue cube;3 and spelling was normalised.
The2Of course, underspecified descriptions are justified in manycircumstances, and in real-life situations may even be necessary.However, the simple scenes used in this study do not fall intothese classes.3We are only interested in the static locative in these expres-sions; the use of the dynamic preposition is most likely due tothe movement implied by the indicated picking-up action.62Figure 2: Number of participants who deliveredn (0. .
.
10) relational descriptions.second object was stripped from comparatives suchas the smaller of the two green cubes and convertedto the form the smaller green cube, which in the con-text of our simple scenes is semantically equivalent.3.3 ResultsOver a third (231 or 36.6%) of the 630 descriptionsin the resulting corpus use spatial relations despitethe fact that relations were never necessary for theidentification of the target.
These 231 relational de-scriptions were produced by 40 (63.5%) of the 63participants, while 23 (36.5%) of the participantsnever used spatial relations.
This suggests that theuse of relations is very much dependent on personalpreference, a hypothesis that is further supported bythe fact that 11 (i.e.
over 25%) of the relation-usingparticipants did so in all 10 referring expressionsthey delivered.
Figure 2 shows the number of par-ticipants who produced exactly n descriptions con-taining at least one spatial relation, for n in the range{0 .
.
.
10}.From the above, we might hypothesise that someparticipants adopt a strategy of always using rela-tional properties, and that others adopt a strategy ofavoiding relational properties as much as possible.We further analysed the descriptions produced byparticipants who did not follow either of these twoexclusive strategies to see how their choices variedacross the different scenes; the spread is shown inFigure 3.
Looking only at the descriptions producedby participants who sometimes, but not always, usedspatial relations allows us to get a clearer view onwhich objects received most and least relational de-scriptions.
This in turn affords an analysis of theimpact the different features in the respective scenesFigure 3: % of relational descriptions for each scene outof all relational descriptions produced by participants notusing an exclusive strategy.
Scenes are paired with theircounterpart using the other target?landmark relation.have on the use of spatial relations.41.7% of the remaining descriptions used rela-tions.
Interestingly, 63.6% of these relational de-scriptions were used for scenes where the target waslocated on top of the landmark object, while only36.4% were from scenes where the target was infront of the landmark, suggesting that the use of thein-front-of relation may be relatively dispreferred.Because the first scene always had the target ontop of the landmark, this preference for using rela-tional descriptions in on-top-of scenes might be dueto a training effect that discourages people from us-ing relations over time.
However, if we do not takeinto account descriptions for the first 4 scenes ofeach trial set, this ratio is still large: 58.8% of thethe remaining relational descriptions stemmed fromscenes where the target was on top of the landmark,41.2% of them from scenes with an on-top-of rela-tion.As expected, the orientation of the scenes and thecolour scheme used did not have a significant im-pact on the use of spatial relations.
For both thesevariables, the difference between values in use of re-lations was under 6 percentage points.3.4 DiscussionWe noted earlier that existing relation-handling re-ferring expression generation algorithms generallydisprefer relations and only add them to a descrip-tion if absolutely necessary.
This in essence mimicsthe behaviour of our participants who adopted the63exclusive Never-Use-Relations strategy.4 These al-gorithms therefore only represent slightly more thanone third of the participants in our study.The analysis of the descriptions given by peoplewho did not follow one of the two exclusive strate-gies indicates that the distribution of relational de-scriptions over the scenes is not random.
In additionto modelling exclusive strategies, then, we may alsowant to capture in an algorithm the reasons why re-ferring expressions for some scenes are more likelyto include spatial relations than others.In the remainder of this section we consider theconclusions that can be drawn from our data regard-ing the factors that impact on the choice of whetherto use spatial relations in a referring expression.Spatial Relations Are Used Even When Unnec-essary: The main observation that can be madeis that even in very simple scenes, where locativesare not necessary to distinguish the target from theother objects present, people show a tendency to usespatial relations to describe a target object to an on-looker.
This contradicts the prevailing approach tothe use of relations in referring expression genera-tion.
It is important to bear in mind that the scenesused in this study were extremely simple and couldeasily be taken in at one glance; it seems likely thatwhen faced with a more crowded scene containingmore complex objects, the tendency to incorporatepossibly unnecessary spatial relations into descrip-tions would increase.Training Effect: Note in Figure 4 that the targetsin Scenes 1+11 received a disproportionally highnumber of descriptions containing spatial relations.While this fact could be attributed to the similar fea-tures of the two scenes (they only differed in ori-entation and colour scheme), it is much more likelythat this is due to Scenes 1 and 11 being the firstscenes of the respective trial sets.
The drop-off inrelational descriptions from beginning to end of thetrial sets almost certainly results from a training ef-fect, where people realised over time that relationswere not necessary in any of the scenes.
If we onlyconsider the first two scenes in each trial set, whereno training effect has taken hold, we find that 36 of4On the assumption that these participants would also resortto relations if they had to.Figure 4: % of relational descriptions for each scene outof all relational descriptions produced by participants notusing an exclusive strategy.
Scenes are paired with theircounterpart from the other trial set.the 58 (62.1%) descriptions for these scenes use spa-tial relations.
The presence of some kind of trainingeffect was also reported in the exit questionnaire byhalf of the participants.This training effect in itself is an interesting phe-nomenon.
It suggests that people are much morelikely to use spatial relations when they come anewto the task of identifying an object rather than whenthey are describing an object in a similar domain ona subsequent occasion.Landmark Salience Encourages Use of Relations:Figure 4 shows that the highest spike in usage of spa-tial relations was recorded for Scenes 3+13; interest-ingly another, although much less pronounced, peakoccurs for their counterpart scenes only differing inthe type of target?landmark relation, 8+18.These peaks cannot be explained by the trainingeffect; in fact, they seem to be running contrary to it,indicating that some other reasonably strong factorsare prompting the use of relations in these scenes.Scenes 3, 8, 13, and 18 are the only scenes inwhich the landmark object is distinguishable fromboth other objects only by its type (cube) or itscolour (see Figure 1).
In addition, in each case thelandmark is large resulting in high visual salience forthe landmark.
This in turn makes the relation to thelandmark a salient feature of the target.
The salienceof the relation then causes people to add it to an al-ready distinguishing description or even to prefer it64over the use of absolute properties.on top of Is Preferred over in front of: Althoughthese four scenes all share the same base set of ob-jects, the usage of spatial relations is considerablyhigher for Scenes 3+13 than for 8+18.
This couldeither be entirely due to the training effect, but mayalso be influenced by the only difference betweenthese two scenes: in Scenes 3+13, the target sits ontop of the landmark, while in Scenes 8+18 it is ly-ing in front of the landmark.
The overall compari-son of the data for scenes featuring an on-top-of re-lation with that for scenes with an in-front-of relationsuggests that this also is a factor.
Even if we onlytake into account Scenes 5?10 and 15?20, where wemight expect the effect of training to have stabilised,people were almost one and a half times more likelyto use a relation in a scene where the target was ontop of rather than in front of the landmark (30 vs. 21of the 111 relational descriptions for those scenesfrom people not using an exclusive strategy).This finding is in accordance with Kelleher andKruijff?s (2006) approach of preferring topologicalspatial relations over projective ones.
The seman-tics of projective spatial relations, such as in frontof, depend on a frame of reference defining direc-tions from some origin (in this case the landmarkobject), while topological relations, such as on topof, are semantically defined by relations such as in-tersection, containedness, and contiguity, and posea lighter cognitive load on both discourse partners(see Tenbrink (2005) for an overview).The impact of landmark salience and the pref-erence for the on-top-of relation can also explainthe low use of spatial relations for Scenes 4+14,6+16 and 10+20 (see Figure 1).
In these scenes itis very hard or even impossible to distinguish thelandmark from the other objects using only non-relational properties, and the target is located in frontof rather than on top of it.
The possibility of de-scribing the target in Scenes 6+16 only by its typeor colour may be the reason for the extremely lowusage of spatial relations in these scenes.4 Conclusions4.1 Consequences for Algorithm DevelopmentWe noted above that some participants adopted aNever-Use-Relations strategy, and some adoptedan Always-Use-Relations stratgy.
This might bemodelled by the use of a parameter akin to thethe Risky/Cautious distinction proposed by Carletta(1992) in her work on references in the Map Taskcorpus.
The effect of this parameter in the contextof the Incremental Algorithm would be to put spa-tial relations either at the front or at the end of thepreference list of properties; this would ensure thatthey are either considered first for inclusion into areferring expression, or only when the other proper-ties of the target do not suffice.A more interesting problem is how to model theapparent preference of our participants to use rela-tions in some scenes more than in others.
Follow-ing our discussion above, the factors that lead to thispreference seem to include the folllowing:?
the ease with which a potential landmark canbe distinguished from the other objects in thescene;?
the visual salience of a potential landmark (inour case its size);?
the type of spatial relation between the targetand a potential landmark; and?
the ease with which the target can be describedwithout the use of spatial relations.The visual salience of the target object is likely toalso play a role; however, this was not tested in thecurrent study, since all target objects were small.Factors like these can be incorporated into a refer-ring expression generation algorithm by taking theminto account in the step that calculates which prop-erty of the target object should next be consideredfor inclusion in the referring expression.
Instead ofusing a static preference list over all possible do-main properties, a preference score for each prop-erty needs to be determined ?at run time?.
Such adynamic approach would also allow the considera-tion of the discourse salience of a property (perhapsdue to its recent use in another referring expression),as well as the consideration that some properties aremore likely to be used in combination with otherspecific properties.
An example of this phenomenonis the combination of the property hair-colour witheither has-hair or has-beard in the TUNA data.
Ifhair-colour is included in a referring expression, at65least one of the other two properties is present aswell.The preference scores of the properties in a re-ferring expression under construction would thencombine into an adequacy score for the overall de-scription, similar to Edmonds?
(1994) concept of thespeaker?s confidence that a referring expression suf-fices for the communicative task at hand.4.2 Future WorkAs a next step, we aim to run experiments to sepa-rately confirm the impact that each of the differentfactors listed in Section 3.4 has on the use of spa-tial relations in referring expressions.
In parallel,we will evaluate the human-produced descriptionsin task-based evaluation schemes to assess whetherthe use of relations in certain categories of scenes isadvantageous for an onlooker trying to identify theobject that is being referred to.Ultimately, the aim of this research is to developan algorithm that incorporates the findings from bothtypes of studies into the generation of referring ex-pressions.
Such an algorithm should not simplymimic the behaviour that our participants have dis-played during the production experiment, but alsotake into account the findings of the task-basedstudy, to ensure both naturalness and usefulness forthe listener.ReferencesAnja Belz and Sebastian Varges.
2007.
Generation of re-peated references to discourse entities.
In Proceedingsof the 11th European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, pages 9?16.Susan E. Brennan and Herbert H. Clark.
1996.
Concep-tual pacts and lexical choice in conversation.
Journalof Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, andCognition, 22:1482?1493.Donna K. Byron and Eric Fosler-Lussier.
2006.The OSU Quake 2004 corpus of two-party situatedproblem-solving dialogs.
In Proceedings of the 15thLanguage Resources and Evaluation Conference.Jean C. Carletta.
1992.
Risk-taking and Recovery inTask-Oriented Dialogue.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofEdinburgh.Herbert H. Clark and Deanna Wilkes-Gibbs.
1986.
Re-ferring as a collaborative process.
Cognition, 22(1):1?39.Robert Dale and Ehud Reiter.
1995.
Computationalinterpretations of the Gricean maxims in the gener-ation of referring expressions.
Cognitive Science,19(2):233?263.Robert Dale.
1989.
Cooking up referring expressions.
InProceedings of the 27th Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, BC.Philip G. Edmonds.
1994.
Collaboration on reference toobjects that are not mutually known.
In Proceedings ofthe 15th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Kyoto, Japan.Claire Gardent.
2002.
Generating minimal definite de-scriptions.
In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Philadelphia, USA.Albert Gatt and Kees van Deemter.
2006.
Conceptualcoherence in the generation of referring expressions.In Proceedings of the 21st COLING and the 44th ACLConference, Sydney, Australia.Albert Gatt, Ielka van der Sluis, and Kees van Deemter.2007.
Evaluating algorithms for the generation of re-ferring expressions using a balanced corpus.
In Pro-ceedings of the 11th European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 49?56.Sarah Haywood, Martin J. Pickering, and Holly P. Brani-gan.
2003.
Co-operation and co-ordination in theproduction of noun phrases.
In Proceedings of the25th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society,pages 533?538, Boston, MA.Helmut Horacek.
2004.
On referring to sets of objectsnaturally.
In Proceedings of the 3rd International Con-ference on Natural Language Generation, pages 70?79, Brockenhurst, UK.Pamela W. Jordan and Marilyn A. Walker.
2005.
Learn-ing content selection rules for generating object de-scriptions in dialogue.
Journal of Artificial Intelli-gence Research, 24:157?194.John Kelleher and Geert-Jan M. Kruijff.
2005.
Acontext-dependent model of proximity in physicallysituated environments.
In Proceedings of the 2ndACL-SIGSEM Workshop on The Linguistic Dimen-sions of Prepositions and their Use in ComputationalLinguistics Formalisms and Applications, Colchester,U.K.John Kelleher and Geert-Jan M. Kruijff.
2006.
Incre-mental generation of spatial referring expressions insituated dialog.
In Proceedings of the 21st COLINGand the 44th ACL Conference, Sydney, Australia.Emiel Krahmer and Marie?t Theune.
2002.
Efficientcontext-sensitive generation of referring expressions.In Kees van Deemter and Rodger Kibble, editors, In-formation Sharing: Reference and Presupposition inLanguage Generation and Interpretation, pages 223?264.
CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA.66Ce?cile Paris, Donia Scott, Nancy Green, Kathy McCoy,and David McDonald.
2007.
Desiderata for evalua-tion of natural language generation.
In Robert Daleand Michael White, editors, Proceedings of the Work-shop on Shared Tasks and Comparative Evaluation inNatural Language Generation, pages 9?15, Arlington,VA.Rosemary Stevenson.
2002.
The role of salience in theproduction of referring expressions: A psycholinguis-tic perspective.
In Kees van Deemter and Rodger Kib-ble, editors, Information Sharing: Reference and Pre-supposition in Language Generation and Interpreta-tion.
CSLI, Stanford.Thora Tenbrink.
2005.
Semantics and application of spa-tial dimensional terms in English and German.
Tech-nical Report Series of the Transregional Collabora-tive Research Center SFB/TR 8 Spatial Cognition, No.004-03/2005, Universities of Bremen and Freiburg,Germany.Henry S. Thompson, Anne Anderson, Ellen GurmanBard, Gwyneth Doherty-Sneddon, Alison Newlands,and Cathy Sotillo.
1993.
The HCRC map task cor-pus: natural dialogue for speech recognition.
In Pro-ceedings of the 1993 Workshop on Human LanguageTechnology, pages 25?30, Princeton, New Jersey.Kees van Deemter.
2006.
Generating referring expres-sions that involve gradable properties.
ComputationalLinguistics, 32(2):195?222.Ielka van der Sluis and Emiel Krahmer.
2004.
Theinfluence of target size and distance on the produc-tion of speech and gesture in multimodal referringexpressions.
In Proceedings of the 8th InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing (INTER-SPEECH 2004), Jeju, Korea.Sebastian Varges.
2005.
Spatial descriptions as referringexpressions in the maptask domain.
In Proceedingsof the 10th European Workshop On Natural LanguageGeneration, Aberdeen, UK.Jette Viethen and Robert Dale.
2006.
Algorithms forgenerating referring expressions: Do they do whatpeople do?
In Proceedings of the 4th InternationalConference on Natural Language Generation, pages63?70, Sydney, Australia, July.67
