Coling 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on Speech Processing for Safety Critical Translation and Pervasive Applications, pages 40?47Manchester, August 2008Rapid Portability among Domains in anInteractive Spoken Language Translation SystemMark SeligmanSpoken Translation, Inc.Berkeley, CA, USA 94705mark.seligman@spokentranslation.comMike DillingerSpoken Translation, Inc.Berkeley, CA, USA 94705mike.dillinger@spokentranslation.comAbstractSpoken Language Translation systems haveusually been produced for such specific domains ashealth care or military use.
Ideally, such systemswould be easily portable to other domains in whichtranslation is mission critical, such as emergencyresponse or law enforcement.
However, porting has inpractice proven difficult.
This paper will comment onthe sources of this difficulty and briefly present anapproach to rapid inter-domain portability.
Threeaspects will be discussed: (1) large general-purposelexicons for automatic speech recognition andmachine translation, made reliable and usable throughinteractive facilities for monitoring and correctingerrors; (2) easily modifiable facilities for instanttranslation of frequent phrases; and (3) quicklymodifiable custom glossaries.
As support for ourapproach, we apply our current SLT system, nowoptimized for the health care domain, to sampleutterances from the military, emergency service, andlaw enforcement domains, with discussion ofnumerous specific sentences.1 IntroductionRecent years have seen increasing research andcommercial activity in the area of Spoken LanguageTranslation (SLT) for mission-critical applications.
Inthe health care area, for instance, such products asConverser (Dillinger & Seligman, 2006), S-MINDS(www.fluentialinc.com), and Med-SLT (Bouillon etal, 2005) are coming into use.
For militaryapplications, products like Phraselator(www.phraselator.com) and S-MINDS(www.fluentialinc.com) have been deployed.However, the demand for real-time translation is byno means restricted to these areas: it is clear innumerous other areas not yet extensively addressed ?emergency services, law enforcement, and others.Ideally, a system produced for one such domain(e.g., health care) could be easily ported to otherdomains.
However, porting has in practice provendifficult.
This paper will comment on the sources of?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.this difficulty and briefly present an approach to rapidinter-domain portability that we believe is promising.Three aspects of our approach will be discussed: (1)large general-purpose lexicons for automatic speechrecognition (ASR) and machine translation (MT),made reliable and usable through interactive facilitiesfor monitoring and correcting errors; (2) easilymodifiable facilities for instant translation of frequentphrases; and (3) quickly modifiable custom glossaries.As preliminary support for our approach, weapply our current SLT system, now optimized for thehealth care domain, to sample utterances from themilitary, emergency service, and law enforcementdomains.With respect to the principal source of the portingproblems affecting most SLT systems to date: mostsystems have relied upon statistical approaches forboth ASR and MT (Karat and Nahamoo, 2007;Koehn, 2008); so each new domain has requiredextensive and high-quality in-domain corpora for bestresults, and the difficulty of obtaining them haslimited these systems?
portability.
The need for in-domain corpora can be eliminated through the use of aquite general corpus (or collection of corpora) forstatistical training; but because large corpora give riseto quickly increasing perplexity and error rates, mostSLT systems have been designed for specializeddomains.By contrast, breadth of coverage has been acentral design goal of our SLT systems.
Before anyoptimization for a specific domain, we ?give oursystems a liberal arts education?
by incorporatingvery broad-coverage ASR and MT technology.
(Wepresently employ rule-based rather than statistical MTcomponents, but this choice is not essential.)
Forexample, our MT lexicons for English<>Spanishtranslation in the health care area contain roughly350,000 words in each direction, of which only asmall percentage are specifically health care terms.Our translation grammars (presently licensed from acommercial source, and further developed with ourcollaboration) are similarly designed to cover thestructures of wide-ranging general texts and spokendiscourse.To deal with the errors that inevitably follow ascoverage grows, we provide a set of facilities thatenable users from both sides of the language barrier to40interactively monitor and correct such errors.
We havedescribed these interactive techniques in (Dillingerand Seligman, 2004; Zong and Seligman, 2005;Dillinger and Seligman, 2006; and Seligman andDillinger, 2006).
With users thus integrated into thespeech translation loop, automatically translatedspoken conversations can range widely withacceptable accuracy (Seligman, 2000).
Users canmove among domains with relative freedom, even inadvance of lexical or other domain specialization,because most domains are already covered to somedegree.
After a quick summary of our approach (inSection 2), we will demonstrate this flexibility (inSection 3).While our system?s facilities for monitoring andcorrection of ASR and MT are vital for accuracy andconfidence in wide-ranging conversations, they can betime consuming.
Further, interactivity demands aminimum degree of computer and print literacy,which some patients may lack.
To address theseissues, we have developed a facility calledTranslation Shortcuts?, through which preparedtranslations of frequent or especially useful phrases inthe current domain can be instantly executed bysearching or browsing.
The facility is described in(Seligman and Dillinger, 2006).
After a quickdescription of the Translation Shortcuts facility(Section 4), this paper will emphasize the contributionof the Translation Shortcuts facility to domainportability, showing how a domain-specific set ofShortcuts can be composed and integrated into thesystem very quickly (Section 5).Finally, while the extensive lexical resourcesalready built into the system provide the mostsignificant boost to domain portability in our system,it will always be desirable to add specialized lexicalitems or specialized meanings of existing ones.Section 6 will briefly present our system?s glossaryimport facility, through which lexical items can beadded or updated very quickly.
Our concludingremarks appear in Section 7.2 Highly Interactive, Broad-coverageSLTWe now briefly summarize our group?s approachto highly interactive, broad-coverage SLT.
Oursystems stress interactive monitoring and correctionof both ASR and MT.First, users can monitor and correct the speaker-dependent speech recognition system to ensure thatthe text which will be passed to the machinetranslation component is as correct as necessary.Voice commands (e.g., Scratch That or Correct<incorrect text>) can be used to repair speechrecognition errors.
Thus, users of our SLT systems ineffect serve to enhance the interface between ASRand MT.Next, during the MT stage, users can monitor,and if necessary correct, translation errors.As an initial safeguard against translation errors,we supply a back-translation, or re-translation of thetranslation.
Using this paraphrase of the initial input,even a monolingual user can make an initial judgmentconcerning the quality of the preliminary machinetranslation output.
If errors are seen, the user canmodify specific parts of the input and retranslate.
(Other systems, e.g.
IBM?s MASTOR (Gao et al2006), have also employed re-translation.
Ourimplementations, however, exploit proprietarytechnologies to ensure that the lexical senses usedduring back-translation accurately reflect those usedin forward translation.
We also allow users to modifypart or all of the input before regenerating thetranslation and back-translation.
)In addition, if uncertainty remains about thecorrectness of a given word sense, we supply aproprietary set of Meaning Cues?
?
synonyms,definitions, examples, pictures, etc.
?
which havebeen drawn from various resources, collated in adatabase (called SELECT?
), and aligned with therespective lexica of the relevant MT systems.
(In thepresent English<>Spanish version of the system, thisdatabase contains some 140,000 entries,corresponding to more than 350,000 lexical entries.The cues are automatically grouped by meaning, andcue groups are automatically mapped to MT lexicausing proprietary techniques ?
thus in effectretrofitting an MT system with the ability to explainto users the meanings of its pre-existing lexicalitems.)
With these cues as guides, the user canmonitor the current, proposed meaning and ifnecessary select a different, preferred meaning fromamong those available.
Automatic updates oftranslation and back-translation then follow.
(Ourcurrent MT vendor has modified its rule-basedtranslation engine to allow specification of a desiredsense when translating a word or expression; weprovide guidelines for other vendors to do likewise.Comparable modifications for statistical MT engineswill entail the setting of temporary weightings thatwill bias the selection of word or phrase translationsfor the current sentence only.)
Future versions of thesystem will allow personal word-sense preferencesthus specified in the current session to be optionallystored for reuse in future sessions, thus enabling agradual tuning of word-sense preferences toindividual needs.
(However, such persistent personalpreferences will still be applied sentence by sentence,rather than by permanently modifying lexica or phrasetables.
Further, users will always be able totemporarily override, or permanently reset, theirpersonal preferences.)
Facilities will also be providedfor sharing such preferences across a working group.Given such interactive correction of both ASRand MT, wide-ranging, and even playful, exchangesbecome possible (Seligman, 2000).
Such interactivitywithin a speech translation system enables increasedaccuracy and confidence, even for wide-rangingconversations.413 Advantages of Very Broad Coveragefor Domain SwitchingThis section discusses the advantages of verybroad lexical coverage for rapid domain porting.Using our interactive SLT system in its presentconfiguration, optimized for the health care domainbut with a general-purpose foundation of over 60,000lexical items for ASR and 350,000 lexical items forrule-based MT, we will test several input sentencesfrom each of three distinct domains in whichtranslation is mission-critical ?
military, emergencyresponse, and law enforcement.
The test sentenceswere invented by the authors; readers can judge theirplausibility.
They were pronounced by Seligmanusing the built-in microphone of a Motion ComputingLE1600 tablet PC equipped with a push-to-talkbutton.For each input, we will show (1) the Englishinput, (2) the original Spanish translation, and (3) theEnglish back-translation.
We also comment on severalfactors:?
If ASR errors occurred, we describe theirinteractive resolution.
(All inputs were correctedbefore proceeding with translation.
Allcorrections were made by voice.)?
If our Meaning Cues facility indicatedquestionable meanings for any of the expressionsin the input, we note the problems and describethe resolutions.?
Some problems in translation result from bugs orgaps in the translation component.
These aremarked for repair.
(Because our MT componentsare presently rule-based, we can address suchproblems individually and manually.
If astatistical MT component were used instead, therecorded errors could guide the selection of textsfor further training.
)As mentioned, in our system, the back-translationis designed to function as the first line of defenseagainst inadequate translation.
If an unsatisfactoryback-translation is obtained, we advise users to re-phrase the input and translate again until satisfied.
(False negatives sometimes occur, though we work toeliminate them; however, it is best to err on the side ofcaution.)
If the back-translation is satisfactory, weadvise checking the Meaning Cues as a defenseagainst false positives.
These may result if an am-biguous English input word is translated into Spanishin the wrong sense (for instance, bank may be trans-lated as banco ("financial institution") when orilla delr?o ("riverbank") is wanted), but is nevertheless re-translated as the same ambiguous English word(bank).
We are experimenting with mechanisms toeliminate such cases by substituting non-ambiguoussynonyms in the back-translation for ambiguous inputwords.
In the current tests, if back-translations arejudged insufficient to convey the intended meaning,paraphrases are substituted and any lexical translationerrors are corrected until acceptable results areachieved.
All such paraphrases are displayed below,whether they involve simple word substitutions ormore extensive changes.Military Domaininput initial transla-tionback-translationcommentsWatch out formines aroundheretenga cuidadocon minas poraqu?Be careful withmines aroundhereASR: mines misrecognized as mindsMT: mines mistranslated as minas (?reserve,mine?
); meaning interactively changed tominas (?booby trap, ground-emplaced mine,land mine?
)[retranslation]  tenga cuidadocon minas poraqu?Be careful withmines aroundhereSpanish is unchanged, but correct meaninghas been verified.We confiscatedtheir arms lastweekconfiscamos susbrazos la semanapasadaWe confiscatedtheir arms lastweekMT: arms mistranslated as brazos (?bra-chia?
); retranslated as armas (?arm, gun,weapon?
)[retranslation] confiscamos susarmas la semanapasadaWe confiscatedtheir weaponslast weekThe operation isscheduled for oh600la operaci?n esprogramada paraoh 600The operation isprogrammed foroh 600.ASR: The misrecognized as knee.MT: Translation of oh 600 is uncertainThe operation isscheduled for 6a.m.la operaci?n esprogramada para6 a.m.The operation isprogrammed for6 a.m.MT: Translation of 6 a.m. is still unclear.The operation isscheduled for sixo?clock in themorningla operaci?n esprogramada paralas seis de lama?anaThe operation isprogrammed forsix in the morn-ingMT: Translation is now verified, given slightrewording (six instead of six o'clock).42We're trainingthem as guerrillasLos entrenamoscomo guerrillasWe train themlike guerrillasASR: Correct spelling (c.f.
gorillas) was pro-duced.MT: Bug: tolerable back-translation error:like should be as.NOTE: For the military domain and more generally, improved translation of day times, especially when expressed as military time, isclearly needed.Emergency Response Domaininput initial transla-tionback-translationcommentsTell them to dropthe food at head-quartersD?gales a ellosque dejen caerla comida encuartel generalTell them tothem that theydrop the food inheadquartersMT: Bug: tolerable Spanish>English mis-translation of pattern ?digales a  ellos que<action>?
(?tell them to <action>?
); dropmistranslated as ?drop down, drop away, letfall, ?
?, but no suitable alternate meaningfound; substituting drop off?
drop off ?
d?gales a ellosque dejen caerla comida encuartel generalTell them tothem that theydrop the food inheadquartersMT: translation and back-translation un-changed; still no suitable meaning; substi-tuting leave... leave ... D?gales a ellosque dejen lacomida en cuar-tel generalTell them tothem that theyleave the food atheadquartersMT: back-translation and Meaning Cues nowokayWe need moreshovels andcrowbars rightnowNecesitamosm?s palas y m?spalancas ahoramismowe need moreshovels and morelevers right nowMT: back-translation levers is consideredokay for crowbarsIt's a matter oflife and deathes cuesti?n de lavida y la muerteit is issue of lifeand DeathMT: capitalization of death prompts uncer-tainty; rephrasingIt's absolutelycritical.Es absoluta-mente cr?tico.it's absolutelycriticalMT: meaning cues for critical are okay: ?fi-nal, significant, key, crucial ?
?These people aredesperately shortof waterEstas personasandan desespe-radamente es-casas de agua.These people aredesperatelyscarce of waterMT: Spanish is okay, but poor back-translation of escasas de (should be ?shortof/low on?)
gives false negative, low confi-dence.
Substituting low on... low on ... Estas personasandan desespe-radamente decapa ca?da enagua.These peopleincur in desper-ately on water.MT: worse; rephrasingThese people aredesperate forwaterestas personasest?n desespe-radas para agua.These people aredesperate forwater.MT: Preposition error in Spanish (parashould be por) gives false positive, butmeaning is clearLaw Enforcement Domaininput initial transla-tionback-translationcommentsStep away fromthe carAl?jese del coche Get away fromthe carMT: get away is acceptable for step awayMay I see yourlicense, pleaseQue pueda versu licencia, porfavor.That I can seeyour license,please.MT: Unacceptable mistranslation of pattern?que pueda <action>, por favor?
(?may I<action>, please?
); rephrasingShow me yourlicense, pleaseMu?streme sulicencia, por fa-vor.Show me yourlicense, pleaseKeep your handswhere I can seethemConserve susmanos donde laspuedo ver.Preserve yourhands where Ican see them.MT: keep mistranslated as conserve (?take,hold, maintain, save, retain, preserve, ??
);retranslated as mantenga (?keep?
)43[retranslation] Mantenga susmanos donde laspuedo verKeep your handswhere I can seethemHow long haveyou been living atthis address?Cu?nto tiempousted ha vividoen esta direc-ci?n?How long haveyou been living inthis address?MT: minor but tolerable error with preposi-tionsWho's your in-surerQui?n es suaseguradorWho is your in-surerNOTE: General-purpose Spanish>English pattern ?que pueda <action>, por favor?
(?may I <action>, please?)
requires fix for all domains.4 Translation ShortcutsHaving summarized our approach to highlyinteractive speech translation and discussed theadvantages of very broad lexical and grammaticalcoverage for domain switching, we now turn to theuse of Translation Shortcuts?
in domain ports.
Thissection briefly describes the facility; and Section 5explains the methods for quickly updating Shortcutsas an element of a rapid port.A Translation Shortcut contains a shorttranslation, typically of a sentence or two, which hasbeen pre-verified, whether by a human translator orthrough the use of the system?s interactive tools.
Thusre-verification of the translation is unnecessary.
In thisrespect, Translation Shortcuts provide a kind oftranslation memory.
However, it is a handmade sort ofmemory (since Shortcuts are composed by linguists orexplicitly saved by users) and a highly interactive sortas well (since users can browse or search forShortcuts, can make and categorize their ownShortcuts, and are advised when the input matches aShortcut).
It is in the ease of composition orcustomization, as well as in the quality of theinteraction, that innovation can be claimed.We can consider the quality of interaction first.Access to stored Shortcuts is very quick, with little orno need for text entry.
Several facilities contribute tomeeting this design criterion:?
A Shortcut Search facility can retrieve a set ofrelevant Shortcuts given only keywords or thefirst few characters or words of a string.
Thedesired Shortcut can then be executed with asingle gesture (mouse click or stylus tap) or voicecommand.NOTE: If no Shortcut is found, the systemautomatically allows users access to the fullpower of broad-coverage, interactive speechtranslation.
Thus, a seamless transition isprovided between the Shortcuts facility andfull, broad-coverage translation.?
A Translation Shortcuts Browser is provided, sothat users can find needed Shortcuts by traversinga tree of Shortcut categories.
Using this interface,users can execute Shortcuts by tapping orclicking alone.Figure 1 below shows the Shortcut Search andShortcuts Browser facilities in use.?
On the left, the Translation Shortcuts Panelcontains the Translation Shortcuts Browser, splitinto two main areas, Shortcuts Categories (above)and Shortcuts List (below).Figure 1: The Input Screen, showing the Translation Shortcuts Browser and Shortcut Search facilities.
Note thenew Nutrition category and the results of automatic Shortcut Search.44?
The Categories section of the Panel showscurrent selection of the Nutrition category,containing frequently used questions andanswers for a nutrition interview.
This newcategory was created overnight, as described inSection 5, below.
Currently hidden is its Staffsubcategory, containing expressions mostlikely to be used by health care staff members.There is also a Patients subcategory, used forpatient responses.
Categories for Backgroundinformation, Directions, etc.
are also visible.?
Below the Categories section is the ShortcutsList section, containing a scrollable list ofalphabetized Shortcuts.
Double clicking on anyvisible Shortcut in the List will execute it.Clicking once will select and highlight aShortcut.
Typing Enter will execute anycurrently highlighted Shortcut.We turn our attention now to the InputWindow, which does double duty for ShortcutSearch and arbitrary text entry for full translation.The search facility is also shown in Figure 1.?
Shortcuts Search begins automatically as soonas text is entered by any means ?
voice,handwriting, touch screen, or standardkeyboard ?
into the Input Window.?
The Shortcuts Drop-down Menu appears justbelow the Input Window, as soon as there areresults to be shown.
The user has entered ?Doyou have?.
The drop-down menu shows theresults of a search within the new Nutritioncategory based upon these initial characters.If the user goes on to enter the exact text ofany Shortcut in this category, e.g.
?Do you haveany food allergies?,?
the interface will show thatthis is in fact a Shortcut, so that verification oftranslation accuracy will not be necessary.However, final text not matching a Shortcut, e.g.
?Do you have any siblings??
will be passed to theroutines for full translation with verification.A Personal Translation Shortcuts?
facility isin progress for future versions of the system: once auser has verified a translation via the interactivefacilities described above, he or she can save it forfuture reuse by pressing a Save as Shortcut button.The new custom Shortcut will then be stored in apersonal profile.
Facilities for sharing Shortcutswill also be provided.5 Rapid Customization of TranslationShortcuts for New DomainsTranslation Shortcuts are stored anddistributed as text-format XML files.
Each filecontains information about which categories (e.g.Nutrition) and subcategories (Staff, Patient, etc.
)to which each phrase belongs.
Since Shortcuts arestored as external data files, integration of newShortcuts into the system is straightforward andhighly scalable.
Once we have built a database offrequently used expressions and their translationsfor a given domain (in which there may bethousands of expressions or just a few), we canautomatically generate the associated files in XMLformat in minutes.
Once this new file is added tothe appropriate directory, the Shortcuts becomeusable in the next session for text- or voice-drivensearching and browsing.
The entire sequence canbe completed overnight.
In one case, the NutritionDepartment of a major hospital submitted severalpages of frequently asked questions, which wereentered, translated, re-generated as an XML file,and integrated into the system for demonstrationthe next day.<Category categoryName1= "Nutrition" categoryName2="Alimentaci?n"><Categories><Category categoryName1="Staff" categoryName2="Personal"><Shortcuts><Shortcut categoryPath="Nutrition\\Staff"><Language1Text>Do you have any food allergies?</Language1Text><Language2Text>?Tiene alguna alergia a alguna comida?</Language2Text></Shortcut><Shortcut categoryPath="Nutrition\\Staff"><Language1Text>Can you tolerate milk?</Language1Text><Language2Text>?Tolera la leche?</Language2Text></Shortcut><Shortcut categoryPath="Nutrition\\Staff"><Language1Text>Do you follow a special diet at home?</Language1Text><Language2Text>?Sigue alguna dieta especial en casa?</Language2Text></Shortcut></Shortcuts></Category></Categories></Category>Figure 2: Sample fragment of an automatically formatted Translation Shortcuts file for the Nutrition>Staffcategory and subcategory.456 Use of the Glossary Import for QuickDomain SwitchingSimilarly, our system includes a glossary importfunction which supports quick addition of domain-specific or other custom lexical information (e.g., site-specific or client-specific vocabulary), once again intext format.
This glossary file may provide additionalterms or may stipulate preferred (and thus overriding)translations for existing terms.
The glossary file isautomatically generated from a simple, two-columntext-format file in which each line contains thesource-language and target-language terms.
A systemutility will then generate the necessary linguisticmarkup (in curly brackets in Figure 3) for each of theterms.
(Markup can be elaborated as appropriate forthe machine translation engine in use, e.g.
to specifyverb sub-categorization, semantic class, etc.)
Like theXML file used for Translation Shortcuts, the resultingcustom glossary file can simply be placed in theappropriate directory.hemol?tico  { A, 11, 6, 0,  } = hemolytichemolitopoy?tico  { A, 11, 6, 0,  } = hemolytopoietichemolizable  { A, 11, 6, 0,  } = hemolyzablehemolizaci?n  { N, 2, 2, 1,  } = hemolyzationhemolizar  { V, 7, 0, 1,  } = hemolyzederecho { A, 11, 6, 0,  } = rightFigure 3.
Sample glossary-import entries for thehealth care domain.Here, the entry for right establishes the "right-hand" sense as the system-wide default, overriding thecurrent global default sense ("correct").
(The newglobal default can, however, be overridden in turn bya personally preferred sense as specified by a user?spersonal profile; and both kinds of preferences can beoverridden interactively for any particular inputsentence.)
The other entries are domain-specificlexical additions for health care not in the generaldictionary.We make no claims for technical innovation inour Glossary Import facility, but simply point out itsusefulness for rapid porting, in that new lexical items,or new preferred senses for old items, can be alteredper user and from session to session.7 ConclusionThe principal source of the porting problemsaffecting most SLT systems to date, we haveobserved, is that, given the general current relianceupon statistical approaches for both ASR and MT,each new domain has required an extensive anddifficult-to-obtain new corpus for best results.
Onemight consider the use of a single very large and quitegeneral corpus (or collection of corpora) for statisticaltraining; but large corpora engender quicklyincreasing perplexity and error rates, so this very-broad-coverage approach has generally been avoided.Our approach, however, has been to adopt abroad-coverage design nevertheless, and tocompensate for the inevitable increase in ASR andMT errors by furnishing users with interactive toolsfor monitoring and correcting these mistakes.
(Wehave to date used rule-based rather than statistical MTcomponents, but comparable interactive facilitiescould be supplied for the latter as well.
Operationalprototypes for English<>Japanese andEnglish<>German suggest that the techniques canalso be adapted for languages other thanEnglish<>Spanish.)
Because such interactive toolsdemand some time and attention, we have also putinto place easily modifiable facilities for instanttranslation of frequent phrases (TranslationShortcuts).
And finally, since even systems with verylarge lexicons will require specialized lexical items orspecialized meanings of existing ones, we haveimplemented a quick glossary import facility, so thatlexical items can be added or updated very easily.Our current SLT system, optimized for healthcare, is now in use at a medium-sized hospital in NewJersey, with more than twenty machines installed.
Forthis paper, we have applied the same system, withoutmodifications, to sample utterances from the military,emergency service, and law enforcement domains.While this exercise has yielded no quantitative results,readers can judge whether it demonstrates that userscan convey mission-critical information withacceptable reliability in multiple domains, even inadvance of any porting efforts.
Users do pay a pricefor this flexibility, since time and attention arerequired for monitoring and correcting to achievereliable results.
However, when users judge thataccuracy is not crucial, or when they are unable tomonitor and correct, they can simply accept the firsttranslation attempt as is.
(A bilingual transcript ofeach conversation, soon to optionally include theback-translation, is always available for laterinspection.)
They can also gain considerable timethrough the use of Translation Shortcuts.ReferencesBouillon, P., Rayner, M., et al 2005.
A GenericMulti-Lingual Open Source Platform for Limited-Domain Medical Speech Translation.
Presentedat EAMT 2005, Budapest, Hungary.Dillinger, M. and Seligman, M. 2006.
Converser?
:highly interactive speech-to-speech translation forhealth care.
HLT-NAACL 2006: Proceedings ofthe  Workshop on Medical Speech Translation(pp.40-43).
New York, NY, USA.Dillinger, M. and Seligman, M. 2004.
Systemdescription: A highly interactive speech-to-speech translation system.
In:  Robert E.Frederking and Kathryn B. Taylor (Eds.
),46Machine translation: from real users to research:6th conference of the Association for MachineTranslation in the Americas -- AMTA 2004 (pp.58-63).
Berlin: Springer Verlag.Gao, Y., Liang, G., Zhou, B., Sarikaya, R., et al (2006).IBM MASTOR system: multilingual automaticspeech-to-speech translator.
In: HLT-NAACL2006: Proceedings of the Workshop on MedicalSpeech Translation (pp.57-60).
New York, NY,USA.Karat, C-M. and Nahamoo, D. 2007.
Conversationalinterface technologies.
In A. Sears & J.
Jacko(Eds.
), The Human-Computer InteractionHandbook: Fundamentals, EvolvingTechnologies, and Emerging Applications.Mahwah, NJ: L. Erlbaum.Koehn, P. 2008.
Statistical Machine Translation.
NewYork: Cambridge University Press.Seligman, M.. 2000.
Nine Issues in SpeechTranslation.
Machine Translation, 15, 149-185.Seligman, M. and Dillinger, M. 2006.
Usability issuesin an interactive speech-to-speech translationsystem for health care.
HLT-NAACL 2006:Proceedings of the Workshop on Medical SpeechTranslation (pp.
1-8).
New York, NY, USA.Zong, C. and Seligman, M. 2005.
Toward PracticalSpoken Language Translation.
Machine Transla-tion, 19, 113-137.47
