Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Language Generation and Summarisation, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 72?76,Suntec, Singapore, 6 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPCreating an Annotated Corpus for Generating Walking DirectionsStephanie Schuldes?Michael Roth?
?EML Research gGmbHHeidelberg, Germanyhttp://www.eml-research.de/nlpAnette Frank?Michael Strube?
?Department of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of Heidelberg, Germanyhttp://www.cl.uni-heidelberg.deAbstractThis work describes first steps towardsbuilding a system that synchronously gen-erates multimodal (textual and visual)route directions for pedestrians.
We pur-sue a corpus-based approach for building ageneration model that produces natural in-structions in multiple languages.
We con-ducted an empirical study to collect ver-bal route directions, and annotated the ac-quired texts on different levels.
Here wedescribe the experimental setting and ananalysis of the collected data.1 IntroductionRoute directions guide a person unfamiliar withthe environment to their designated goal.
We planto generate route instructions that are similar tothose given by humans by referring to landmarksand by structuring the route in a way that it is easyto memorize (Denis, 1997).We develop a system for synchronously gen-erating natural language route directions and 3Dscenes of a route.
The core of the architectureis a unified representation providing informationfor both verbal and graphical output.
The directcorrespondence between linguistic references andshown objects facilitates the identification of thevisual scene in the real world and the choice of thecorrect action while following the route.
To cre-ate a reusable system that is adaptable to differentnavigational domains and languages, we use ma-chine learning techniques to build a statistical gen-eration model from annotated corpora.
We reporton an empirical study to collect human-producedwalking directions to be used for statistical gener-ation from underlying semantic structures.
Whileour scenario is ultimately multilingual, here wegive an analysis of the German dataset.2 Related WorkThe task of analyzing and generating cognitivelyadequate route instructions has been addressed bya number of authors (Taylor & Tversky, 1996;Tappe, 2000; Habel, 2003; Richter, 2008; Vi-ethen & Dale, 2008; Kelleher & Costello, 2009).Marciniak & Strube (2005) showed that a systemfor generating route directions can be successfullytrained on a small set of 75 route direction texts(8418 tokens).
In their approach directions arerepresented in a graph, which encodes informa-tion on various conceptual levels.
While their ap-proach is restricted to reproducing directions forthe learned graphs, we will generate directions fora wide range of possible routes.
Dale et al (2005)developed a system that takes GIS data as inputand uses a pipeline architecture to generate verbalroute directions.
In contrast to their approach, ourapproach will be based on an integrated architec-ture allowing for more interaction between the dif-ferent stages of generation.
The idea of combiningverbal directions with scenes from a virtual 3D en-vironment has recently lead to a new frameworkfor evaluating NLG systems: The Challenge onGenerating Instructions in Virtual Environments(GIVE) (Byron et al, 2009) is planned to becomea regular event for the NLG community.3 Corpus AcquisitionFor collecting naturally produced route instruc-tions, we conducted a study with 29 native speak-ers of German (66% female and 33% male).
Theparticipants in our study were students from var-ious fields aged between 20 and 34 years.
Wedesigned two different settings: one on-site set-ting, in which participants walked around in a realworld situation (specifically our university cam-pus), and one desk-based setting, in which theyinteracted with a web application.
The formerwas further divided into indoor and outdoor routes,723217645Figure 1: Example route from the indoor setting(first task), leading from a room with photocopiers(1) across an open space and downstairs (3) to astudents?
union room (6), passing an informationboard (4) and a coffee machine (5).
A lecture room(2) and a glass wall (7) are visible from the route.while the latter was restricted to an outdoor sce-nario.
This design enables us to study possibledifferences and commonalities between linguisticrealizations obtained for different environments aswell as different presentation modes.For both scenarios, the task was to give writtendirections to a person unfamiliar with the area asto how to get to the destination the participants justreached, taking the same route.
First, participantswere led along a route to a given destination point(on-site).
Each participant was asked to give di-rections for two routes inside buildings of the uni-versity campus (e.g.
from an office to a seminarroom, cf.
Figure 1), and one outside route (e.g.from the building entrance to a bus stop).Second, participants were shown a web appli-cation that guided them along a route by means ofa 2D animation (desk-based).
Subjects were al-lowed to use all information displayed by the webapplication: named places, buildings, street andbridge names, etc.
(cf.
Figure 2).Setting GM CI CO Totalphysical routes 9 6 3 18directions 59 58 28 145tokens 5353 4119 2674 12146tokens/dir.
(?)
91 71 96Table 1: Number of routes, directions, and tokensfor the different settings.
GM = Google Maps, CI= Campus Indoor, CO = Campus Outdoor.4 Corpus AnnotationThe acquired texts were processed in several steps.To ensure that all route directions consist of syn-tactically and semantically correct sentences, weFigure 2: Web application used in the second task.Landmarks were introduced successively via pop-ups as the animated walker encountered them.manually corrected spelling mistakes, omissionsresulting in grammatical errors, and removed el-liptical and unclear directions.The preprocessed texts were annotated on thefollowing three levels:pos lemma ?
part-of-speech and lemmasyn dep ?
dependency relationssem frame ?
frames and semantic rolesFor the pos lemma and syn dep levels, we usedTreeTagger (Schmid, 1997) and XLE (Maxwell& Kaplan, 1993).
The corpus was parsedwith the German ParGram LFG grammar (Forst,2007).
The outputs were corrected manuallyby two annotators.
On the sem frame level an-notation was carried out using the annotationtool SALTO (Burchardt et al, 2006) and fol-lowing the definiton of the FrameNet framesSELF MOTION, PERCEPTION, BEING LOCATEDand LOCATIVE RELATION (Baker et al, 1998).
Interms of accuracy for unlabeled/labeled relations,the annotation agreement was 78.88%/65.17% onthe syn dep level and 79.27%/68.39% for framesand semantic roles.5 Data Analysis5.1 Corpus StatisticsWe examined word frequencies with respect to theexperimental settings in order to determine simi-larities and dissimilarities in lexical choice.
Table2 shows the three most frequent verbs and nounsfound in each corpus part.The data reveals that the most frequent verbs aretypical among all settings.
However, we found anumber of lower-frequency verbs that are rather73Top verbs (Campus) GM CI COgehen ?to walk?
11% 18% 14%sein ?to be?
3.9% 8.2% 6.6%stehen ?to stand?
0.0% 6.3% 5.3%Top verbs (GM) GM CI COfolgen ?to follow?
12% 2.9% 2.6%gehen ?to walk?
11% 18% 14%abbiegen ?to turn into?
9.0% 3.8% 8.9%Top nouns (Campus) GM CI COT?ur ?door?
0.0% 12% 0.9%Treppe ?stairs?
0.0% 8.3% 0.0%Gang ?hallway?
0.0% 6.6% 0.0%Top nouns (GM) GM CI CO...stra?e ?.
.
.
Street?
28% 0.0% 2.2%Richtung ?direction?
3.5% 2.8% 2.6%...platz ?.
.
.
Square?
3.4% 0.0% 6.1%Table 2: Relative frequency of the three most com-mon verbs and nouns in both studiesscenario-specific.
In many cases, the occurrenceor absence of a verb can be attributed to a verb?sselectional restrictions.
For example, some ofthe verbs describing movements along streets (e.g.folgen ?to follow?, abbiegen ?to turn into?)
do notoccur within the indoor corpus whereas verbs de-scribing ?3D movements?
(e.g.
durchqueren ?towalk through?, hinuntergehen ?to walk down?)
arenot mentioned with the Google Maps setting.The most frequent nouns significantly differ be-tween the indoor and outdoor settings.
This corre-lation does not come as a surprise, as most of thementioned objects cannot be found in all scenar-ios.
On the other hand, nouns that are commonto both indoor and outdoor scenarios can be di-vided into two categories: Nouns denoting (1) ob-jects that appear in both scenarios (e.g.
Geb?aude?building?)
and (2) abstract concepts typical forroute directions in general, e.g.
Richtung ?direc-tion?, Nummer ?number?, Ziel ?goal?, and Start-punkt ?starting point?.5.2 Landmark AlignmentLandmark alignment serves the purpose of de-tecting objects that are most frequently men-tioned across directions, and how the same ob-ject is referred to differently.
We created a graph-based representation of the landmarks mentionedin each route instruction (single route representa-tion, SRR) for use in two types of alignment.
Fig-ure 3 shows an example from the indoor study.First, we created a combined graph for each phys-ical route by merging the respective SRRs, takinginto account several criteria:String matching of landmark names;Semantic similarity using GermaNet (Lemnitzer& Kunze, 2002), a lexical-semantic networkfor German similar to WordNet;Frequency of references across all directions;Spatio-temporal proximity of references to thesame object;Number of landmarks mentioned in a single di-rection (i.e.
length of the SRR).The combined graphs show that there are strongcorrespondences between the directions for thesame route.
We also found that, in the campussettings, there was a small number of frequentlyused general objects and a large number of lessfrequently used specific objects.
This facilitatesmerging and shows the importance of the objectsfor people?s orientation, and at the same time sup-ports our claim that other modalities are neededto disambiguate references during navigation.
Forgenerating informative referential expressions, thecombined graph needs to be refined so that objectproperties are represented (Krahmer et al, 2003).Second, we aligned the SRRs with the physicalroute graph.
Comparing the landmarks mentionedin the campus settings revealed that, in 97.8% ofthe cases, people adhere to the sequence in whichobjects are encountered.
Reversed order was onlyfound in special cases like distant objects.5.3 Discourse PhenomenaWe analyzed the use of anaphora, the temporal or-der of instructions, and occurrences of prototypi-cal event chains in the collected texts in order toidentify coherence-inducing elements.Spatio-temporal adverbials: Most anaphorsmention intermediate goals on the route in orderto refer to the starting point of a new action (e.g.da/hier ?here?, dort ?there?).
This finding goeshand in hand with the observation that the col-lected route directions are typically structured ina linear temporal order (cf.
Table 3) as for ex-ample indicated by the use of adverbs indicat-ing temporal succession (e.g.
jetzt ?now?, dann?then?
and danach ?afterwards?)
and conjunctions(e.g.
bis ?until?, wenn ?when?).
Interestingly, a re-versed order can be found in a few cases, where74R?cken Raum Kopierer Treppe Treppe Brett Getr?nkeautomatTreppeH?rsaalTreppe Kaffeeautomat T?r FachschaftKopierer TreppeH?rsaalBrett S?uleGlast?rGetr?nkeautomat T?rFachschafts-raumDruckerraum Theoretikum 180-Grad-Kurve FachschaftstafelGlaswand GlaswandKopfMedizin-FachschaftKopierzentrum R?cken Treppe Treppe RichtungGlasfenster GlasfrontEingang Fachschaft321764 5Figure 3: Each line shows one SRR for the route in Figure 1.
Correspondences are indicated by identicalnode shapes, black dots substitute non-matched tokens.
The bottom graph shows the physical route seenas sequence of landmarks.
Node size reflects the importance of the referred object as conveyed by SRRs.Adverbs >tGM CI COdann ?then?
55 43 30jetzt ?now?
4 7 5danach ?afterwards?
12 5 3Adverbs <tGM CI COvorher ?beforehand?
0 1 0davor ?before?
1 0 2Table 3: Frequencies of temporal adverbs indicat-ing linear (>t) and reversed linear order (<t)the following action or situation is not supposedto take place (e.g.
Gehen Sie vorher rechts ?be-forehand turn right?
).Backward-looking event anaphors and refer-ences to result states: We also found explicitreferences to past events (e.g.
Nach dem Durch-queren ?after traversing?)
and result states ofevents, e.g.
the adverbial phrase unten angekom-men (here: ?downstairs?)
was frequently used fol-lowing an instruction to ?walk downstairs?.6 Conclusions and Future WorkThe lexical corpus analysis confirms our hypoth-esis that there are strong commonalities in lexi-cal choice for directions that persist across sce-narios and presentation modes, with a small num-ber of focused differences, and obvious domain-dependent lexical differences regarding the natureof objects in the respective scenarios.
While ourcurrent corpus data is rather broad, environment-specific data can be extended quickly by setting upweb studies using 2D and 3D environments.The alignment of the physical routes and ver-bal instructions shows a clear tendency that linearroute structure is observed in verbal realization,with only few exceptions.
Since temporal orderis observed by default, temporal annotation can berestricted to capture exceptional orderings, whichare recoverable from linguistic cues.
The study ofdiscourse coherence effects yielded a number ofelements that will be given special attention in thesurface generation model.
We observed a varietyof coherence-inducing elements that are genericin nature and thus seem well-suited for a corpus-based generation model.
As other languages areknown to exhibit differences in verbal realizationof directions (von Stutterheim et al, 2002), wehave to extend our data collection in order to gen-erate systematic linguistic variations from a singleunderlying semantic structure for all languages.The linguistic annotation levels of frames androles, syntactic dependencies, and basic word cat-egories have been tested successfully with a sim-ilar corpus (Roth & Frank, 2009).
The next stepswill consist in the alignment of physical routes andlandmarks with semantic representations in an in-tegrated generation architecture.Acknowledgements: This work is supported bythe DFG-financed innovation fund FRONTIER aspart of the Excellence Initiative at Heidelberg Uni-versity (ZUK 49/1) and partially funded by theKlaus Tschira Foundation, Heidelberg, Germany.We thank the participants in our study, our anno-tators Tim Krones and Anna Schmidt, and studentassistants Jonathan Geiger and Carina Silberer.75ReferencesBaker, Collin F., Charles J. Fillmore & John B. Lowe (1998).The Berkeley FrameNet Project.
In Proceedings of the17th International Conference on Computational Linguis-tics and 36th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, Montr?eal, Qu?ebec, Canada, 10?14August 1998, pp.
86?90.Burchardt, Aljoscha, Katrin Erk, Anette Frank, AndreaKowalski & Sebastian Pado (2006).
SALTO: A versatilemulti-level annotation tool.
In Proceedings of the 5th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources and Eval-uation, Genoa, Italy, 22?28 May 2006, pp.
517?520.Byron, Donna, Alexander Koller, Kristina Striegnitz, JustineCassell, Robert Dale, Johanna Moore & Jon Oberlander(2009).
Report on the First NLG Challenge on GeneratingInstructions in Virtual Environments (GIVE).
In Proceed-ings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration (ENLG 2009), Athens, Greece, 30-31 March2009, pp.
165?173.Dale, Robert, Sabine Geldof & Jean-Philippe Prost (2005).Using natural language generation in automatic route de-scription.
Journal of Research and Practice in InformationTechnology, 37(1):89?106.Denis, Michel (1997).
The description of routes: A cognitiveapproach to the production of spatial discourse.
CurrentPsychology of Cognition, 16:409?458.Forst, Martin (2007).
Filling statistics with linguistics ?Property design for the disambiguation of German LFGparses.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Workshop onDeep Linguistic Processing, Prague, Czech Republic, 28June 2007, pp.
17?24.Habel, Christopher (2003).
Incremental generation of mul-timodal route instructions.
In Reva Freedman & CharlesCallaway (Eds.
), Working Papers of the 2003 AAAI SpringSymposium on Natural Language Generation in Spokenand Written Dialogue, pp.
44?51.
Menlo Park, California:AAAI Press.Kelleher, John D. & Fintan J. Costello (2009).
Applying com-putational models of spatial prepositions to visually situ-ated dialog.
Computational Linguistics, 35(2):271?306.Krahmer, Emiel, Sebastiaan van Erk & Andr?e Verleg (2003).Graph-based generation of referring expressions.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 29(1):53?72.Lemnitzer, Lothar & Claudia Kunze (2002).
GermaNet ?
rep-resentation, visualization, application.
In Proceedings ofthe 3rd International Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation, Las Palmas, Canary Islands, Spain, 29?31May 2002, pp.
1485?1491.Marciniak, Tomacz & Michael Strube (2005).
Beyond thepipeline: Discrete optimization in NLP.
In Proceedings ofthe 9th Conference on Computational Natural LanguageLearning, Ann Arbor, Mich., USA, 29?30 June 2005, pp.136?145.Maxwell, John T. & Ronald M. Kaplan (1993).
The inter-face between phrasal and functional constraints.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 19(4):571?590.Richter, Kai-Florian (2008).
Context-Specific Route Direc-tions ?
Generation of Cognitively Motivated WayfindingInstructions.
Amsterdam: IOS Press.Roth, Michael & Anette Frank (2009).
A NLG-based appli-cation for walking directions.
In Companion Volume tothe Proceedings of the 47th Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics and the 4th Interna-tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Processingof the Asian Federation of Natural Language Processing,Singapore, 2-7 August 2009.
To appear.Schmid, Helmut (1997).
Probabilistic Part-of-Speech taggingusing decision trees.
In Daniel Jones & Harold Somers(Eds.
), New Methods in Language Processing, pp.
154?164.
London, U.K.: UCL Press.Tappe, Heike (2000).
Perspektivenwahl in Beschreibun-gen dynamischer und statischer Wegeskizzen.
[Choice ofperspective in descriptions of dynamic and static sketch-maps].
In Christopher Habel & Christiane v.
Stutterheim(Eds.
), R?aumliche Konzepte und sprachliche Strukturen,pp.
69?97.
T?ubingen: Niemeyer.Taylor, Holly & Barbara Tversky (1996).
Perspective inspatial descriptions.
Journal of Memory and Language,35:371?391.Viethen, Jette & Robert Dale (2008).
The use of spatial re-lations in referring expression generation.
In Proceedingsof the Fifth International Natural Language GenerationConference, Salt Fork OH, USA, 12?14 June 2008, pp.59?67.von Stutterheim, Christiane, Ralf N?use & Jorge M. Serra(2002).
Crosslinguistic differences in the conceptuali-sation of events.
In Hilde Hasselg?ard, Stig Johansson,Bergljot Behrens & Cathrine Fabricius-Hansen (Eds.
), In-formation Structure in a Cross-lingustic Perspective, pp.179?198.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.76
