Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Multiword Expressions, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 1?8,Suntec, Singapore, 6 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPStatistically-Driven Alignment-Based Multiword ExpressionIdentification for Technical DomainsHelena de Medeiros Caseli?, Aline Villavicencio?
?, Andre?
Machado?, Maria Jose?
Finatto?
?Department of Computer Science, Federal University of Sa?o Carlos (Brazil)?Institute of Informatics, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil)?Department of Computer Sciences, Bath University (UK)?Institute of Language and Linguistics, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil)helenacaseli@dc.ufscar.br, avillavicencio@inf.ufrgs.br,ammachado@inf.ufrgs.br, mfinatto@terra.com.brAbstractMultiword Expressions (MWEs) are oneof the stumbling blocks for more preciseNatural Language Processing (NLP) sys-tems.
Particularly, the lack of coverageof MWEs in resources can impact nega-tively on the performance of tasks and ap-plications, and can lead to loss of informa-tion or communication errors.
This is es-pecially problematic in technical domains,where a significant portion of the vocab-ulary is composed of MWEs.
This pa-per investigates the use of a statistically-driven alignment-based approach to theidentification of MWEs in technical cor-pora.
We look at the use of several sourcesof data, including parallel corpora, usingEnglish and Portuguese data from a corpusof Pediatrics, and examining how a sec-ond language can provide relevant cues forthis tasks.
We report results obtained bya combination of statistical measures andlinguistic information, and compare theseto the reported in the literature.
Such anapproach to the (semi-)automatic identifi-cation of MWEs can considerably speedup lexicographic work, providing a moretargeted list of MWE candidates.1 IntroductionA multiword expression (MWE) can be definedas any word combination for which the syntac-tic or semantic properties of the whole expres-sion cannot be obtained from its parts (Sag etal., 2002).
Examples of MWEs are phrasal verbs(break down, rely on), compounds (police car, cof-fee machine), idioms (rock the boat, let the catout of the bag).
They are very numerous in lan-guages, as Biber et al (1999) note, accouting forbetween 30% and 45% of spoken English and 21%of academic prose, and for Jackendoff (1997) thenumber of MWEs in a speaker?s lexicon is of thesame order of magnitude as the number of singlewords.
However, these estimates are likely to beunderestimates if we consider that for languagefrom a specific domain the specialized vocabularyis going to consist largely of MWEs (global warm-ing, protein sequencing) and new MWEs are con-stantly appearing (weapons of mass destruction,axis of evil).Multiword expressions play an important rolein Natural Language Processing (NLP) applica-tions, which should not only identify the MWEsbut also be able to deal with them when they arefound (Fazly and Stevenson, 2007).
Failing toidentify MWEs may cause serious problems formany NLP tasks, especially those envolving somekind of semantic processing.
For parsing, for in-stance, Baldwin et al (2004), found that for a ran-dom sample of 20,000 strings from the British Na-tional Corpus (BNC) even with a broad-coveragegrammar for English (Flickinger, 2000) missingMWEs accounted for 8% of total parsing errors.Therefore, there is an enormous need for robust(semi-)automated ways of acquiring lexical infor-mation for MWEs (Villavicencio et al, 2007) thatcan significantly extend the coverage of resources.For example, one can more than double the num-ber of verb-particle constructions (VPCs) entriesin a dictionary, such as the Alvey Natural Lan-guage Tools (Carroll and Grover, 1989), just ex-tracting VPCs from a corpus like the BNC (Bald-win, 2005).
Furthermore, as MWEs are languagedependent and culturally motivated, identifyingthe adequate translation of MWE occurrences is animportant challenge for machine translation meth-ods.In this paper, we investigate experimentally theuse of an alignment-based approach for the iden-tification of MWEs in technical corpora.
We lookat the use of several sources of data, including par-1allel corpora, using English and Portuguese datafrom a corpus of Pediatrics, and examining howa second language can provide relevant cues forthis tasks.
In this way, cost-effective tools for theautomatic alignment of texts can generate a listof MWE candidates with their appropriate trans-lations.
Such an approach to the (semi-)automaticidentification of MWEs can considerably speed uplexicographic work, providing a more targeted listof MWE candidates and their translations, for theconstruction of bilingual resources, and/or withsome semantic information for monolingual re-sources.The remainder of this paper is structured as fol-lows.
Section 2 briefly discusses MWEs and someprevious works on methods for automatically ex-tracting them.
Section 3 presents the resourcesused while section 4 describes the methods pro-posed to extract MWEs as a statistically-driven by-product of an automatic word alignment process.Section 5 presents the evaluation methodology andanalyses the results and section 6 finishes this pa-per with some conclusions and proposals for fu-ture work.2 Related WorkThe term Multiword Expression has been used todescribe a large number of distinct but related phe-nomena, such as phrasal verbs (e.g.
come along),nominal compounds (e.g.
frying pan), institution-alised phrases (e.g.
bread and butter), and manyothers (Sag et al, 2002).
They are very frequent ineveryday language and this is reflected in severalexisting grammars and lexical resources, wherealmost half of the entries are Multiword Expres-sions.However, due to their heterogeneous charac-teristics, MWEs present a tough challenge forboth linguistic and computational work (Sag etal., 2002).
Some MWEs are fixed, and do notpresent internal variation, such as ad hoc, whileothers allow different degrees of internal vari-ability and modification, such as touch a nerve(touch/find a nerve) and spill beans (spill sev-eral/musical/mountains of beans).
In terms of se-mantics, some MWEs are more opaque in theirmeaning (e.g.
to kick the bucket as to die), whileothers have more transparent meanings that can beinferred from the words in the MWE (e.g.
eat up,where the particle up adds a completive sense toeat).
Therefore, providing appropriate methodsfor the automatic identification and treatment ofthese phenomena is a real challenge for NLP sys-tems.A variety of approaches has been proposed forautomatically identifying MWEs, differing basi-cally in terms of the type of MWE and lan-guage to which they apply, and the sources ofinformation they use.
Although some work onMWEs is type independent (e.g.
(Zhang et al,2006; Villavicencio et al, 2007)), given the het-erogeneity of MWEs much of the work looks in-stead at specific types of MWE like collocations(Pearce, 2002), compounds (Keller and Lapata,2003) and VPCs (Baldwin, 2005; Villavicencio,2005; Carlos Ramisch and Aline Villavicencio andLeonardo Moura and Marco Idiart, 2008).
Someof these works concentrate on particular languages(e.g.
(Pearce, 2002; Baldwin, 2005) for Englishand (Piao et al, 2006) for Chinese), but somework has also benefitted from asymmetries in lan-guages, using information from one language tohelp deal with MWEs in the other (e.g.
(na Vil-lada Moiro?n and Tiedemann, 2006; Caseli et al,2009)).As basis for helping to determine whether agiven sequence of words is in fact an MWE (e.g.ad hoc vs the small boy) some of these works em-ploy linguistic knowledge for the task (Villavicen-cio, 2005), while others employ statistical meth-ods (Pearce, 2002; Evert and Krenn, 2005; Zhanget al, 2006; Villavicencio et al, 2007) or combinethem with some kinds of linguistic informationsuch as syntactic and semantic properties (Bald-win and Villavicencio, 2002; Van de Cruys and naVillada Moiro?n, 2007) or automatic word align-ment (na Villada Moiro?n and Tiedemann, 2006).Statistical measures of association have beencommonly used for this task, as they can be demo-cratically applied to any language and MWE type.However, there is no consensus about which mea-sure is best suited for identifying MWEs in gen-eral.
Villavicencio et al (2007) compared some ofthese measures (mutual information, permutationentropy and ?2) for the type-independent detec-tion of MWEs and found that Mutual Informationseemed to differentiate MWEs from non-MWEs,but the same was not true of ?2.
In addition, Ev-ert and Krenn (2005) found that for MWE iden-tification the efficacy of a given measure dependson factors like the type of MWEs being targetedfor identification, the domain and size of the cor-2pora used, and the amount of low-frequency dataexcluded by adopting a threshold.
Nonetheless,Villavicencio et al (2007), discussing the influ-ence of the corpus size and nature over the meth-ods, found that these different measures have ahigh level of agreement about MWEs, whetherin carefully constructed corpora or in more het-erogeneous web-based ones.
They also discussthe results obtained from adopting approaches likethese for extending the coverage of resources, ar-guing that grammar coverage can be significantlyincreased if MWEs are properly identified andtreated (Villavicencio et al, 2007).Among the methods that use additional infor-mation along with statistics to extract MWE, theone proposed by na Villada Moiro?n and Tiede-mann (2006) seems to be the most similar to ourapproach.
The main difference between them isthe way in which word alignment is used in theMWE extraction process.
In this paper, the wordalignment is the basis for the MWE extractionprocess while Villada Moiro?n and Tiedemann?smethod uses the alignment just for ranking theMWE candidates which were extracted on the ba-sis of association measures (log-likelihood andsalience) and head dependence heuristic (in parseddata).Our approach, as described in details by Caseliet al (2009), also follows to some extent thatof Zhang et al (2006), as missing lexical en-tries for MWEs and related constructions are de-tected via error mining methods, and this paper fo-cuses on the extraction of generic MWEs as a by-product of an automatic word alignment.
Anotherrelated work is the automatic detection of non-compositional compounds (NCC) by Melamed(1997) in which NCCs are identified by analyz-ing statistical translation models trained in a hugecorpus by a time-demanding process.Given this context, our approach proposesthe use of alignment techniques for identifyingMWEs, looking at sequences detected by thealigner as containing more than one word, whichform the MWE candidates.
As a result, sequencesof two or more consecutive source words aretreated as MWE candidates regardless of whetherthey are translated as one or more target words.3 The Corpus and Reference ListsThe Corpus of Pediatrics used in these experi-ments contains 283 texts in Portuguese with a totalof 785,448 words, extracted from the Jornal de Pe-diatria.
From this corpus, the Pediatrics Glossary,a reference list containing multiword terms and re-curring expressions, was semi-automatically con-structed, and manually checked.1 The primary aimof the Pediatrics Glossary, as an online resourcefor long-distance education, was to train, qualifyand support translation students on the domain ofpediatrics texts.The Pediatrics Glossary was built from the36,741 ngrams that occurred at least 5 times in thecorpus.
These were automatically cleaned or re-moved using some POS tag patterns (e.g.
remov-ing prepositions from terms that began or endedwith them).
In addition, if an ngram was part of alarger ngram, only the latter appeared in the Glos-sary, as is the case of aleitamento materno (mater-nal breastfeeding) which is excluded as it is con-tained in aleitamento materno exclusivo (exclusivematernal breastfeeding).
This post-processing re-sulted in 3,645 ngrams, which were manuallychecked by translation students, and resulted in2,407 terms, with 1,421 bigrams, 730 trigrams and339 ngrams with n larger than 3 (not considered inthe experiments presented in this paper).4 Statistically-Driven andAlignment-Based methods4.1 Statistically-Driven methodStatistical measures of association have beenwidely employed in the identification of MWEs.The idea behind their use is that they are an in-expensive language and type independent meansof detecting recurrent patterns.
As Firth famouslysaid a word is characterized by the company itkeeps and since we expect the component wordsof an MWE to occur frequently together, thenthese measures can give an indication of MWE-ness.
In this way, if a group of words co-occurswith significantly high frequency when comparedto the frequencies of the individual words, thenthey may form an MWE.
Indeed, measures suchas Pointwise Mutual Information (PMI), MutualInformation (MI), ?2, log-likelihood (Press et al,1992) and others have been employed for thistask, and some of them seem to provide more ac-curate predictions of MWEness than others.
Infact, in a comparison of some measures for thetype-independent detection of MWEs, MI seemed1Available in the TEXTQUIM/UFRGS website: http://www.ufrgs.br/textquim3to differentiate MWEs from non-MWEs, but thesame was not true of ?2 (Villavicencio et al,2007).
In this work we use two commonly em-ployed measures for this task: PMI and MI,as implemented in the Ngram Statistics Package(Banerjee and Pedersen, 2003).From the Portuguese portion of the Corpus ofPediatrics, 196,105 bigram and 362,663 trigramMWE candidates were generated, after filteringngrams containing punctuation and numbers.
Inorder to evaluate how these methods perform with-out any linguistic filtering, the only threshold em-ployed was a frequency cut-off of 2 occurrences,resulting in 64,839 bigrams and 54,548 trigrams.Each of the four measures were then calculated forthese ngrams, and we ranked each n-gram accord-ing to each of these measures.
The average of allthe rankings is used as the combined measure ofthe MWE candidates.4.2 Alignment-Based methodThe second of the MWE extraction approachesto be investigated in this paper is the alignment-based method.
The automatic word alignment oftwo parallel texts ?
a text written in one (source)language and its translation to another (target) lan-guage ?
is the process of searching for correspon-dences between source and target words and se-quences of words.
For each word in a source sen-tence equivalences in the parallel target sentenceare looked for.
Therefore, taking into account aword alignment between a source word sequenceS (S = s1 .
.
.
sn with n ?
2) and a target wordsequence T (T = t1 .
.
.
tm with m ?
1), thatis S ?
T , the alignmet-based MWE extracionmethod assumes that: (a) S and T share some se-mantic features, and (b) S may be a MWE.In other words, the alignment-based MWE ex-traction method states that the sequence S will bea MWE candidate if it is aligned with a sequenceT composed of one or more words (a n : m align-ment with n ?
2 and m ?
1).
For example,the sequence of two Portuguese words aleitamentomaterno ?
which occurs 202 times in the cor-pus used in our experiments ?
is a MWE can-didate because these two words were joined to bealigned 184 times with the word breastfeeding (a2 : 1 alignment), 8 times with the word breast-fed (a 2 : 1 alignment), 2 times with breastfeedingpractice (a 2 : 2 alignment) and so on.Thus, notice that the alignment-based MWE ex-traction method does not rely on the conceptualasymmetries between languages since it does notexpect that a source sequence of words be alignedwith a single target word.
The method looksfor the sequences of source words that are fre-quently joined together during the alignment de-spite the number of target words involved.
Thesefeatures indicate that the method priorizes preci-sion in spite of recall.It is also important to say that although the se-quences of source and target words resemble thephrases used in the phrase-based statistical ma-chine translation (SMT), they are indeed a re-finement of them.
More specifically, althoughboth approaches rely on word alignments per-formed by GIZA++2 (Och and Ney, 2000), inthe alignment-based approach not all sequences ofwords are considered as phrases (and MWE can-didates) but just those with an alignment n : m(n >= 2) with a target sequence.
To confirmthis assumption a phrase-based SMT system wastrained with the same corpus used in our exper-iments and the number of phrases extracted fol-lowing both approaches were compared.
Whilethe SMT extracted 819,208 source phrases, ouralignment-based approach (without applying anypart-of-speech or frequency filter) extracted only34,277.
These results show that the alignment-based approach refines in some way the phrasesof SMT systems.In this paper, we investigate experimentallywhether MWEs can be identified as a by-productof the automatic word alignment of parallel texts.We focus on Portuguese MWEs from the Corpusof Pediatrics and the evaluation is performed us-ing the bigrams and trigrams from the PediatricsGlossary as gold standard.To perform the extraction of MWE candi-dates following the alignment-based approach,first, the original corpus had to be sentence andword aligned and Part-of-Speech (POS) tagged.For these preprocessing steps were used, re-spectively: a version of the Translation Cor-pus Aligner (TCA) (Hofland, 1996), the statisti-cal word aligner GIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2000)and the morphological analysers and POS taggersfrom Apertium3 (Armentano-Oller et al, 2006).2GIZA++ is a well-known statistical word aligner that canbe found at: http://www.fjoch.com/GIZA++.html3Apertium is an open-source machine translation en-gine and toolbox available at: http://www.apertium.org.4From the preprocessed corpus, the MWE candi-dates are extracted as those in which two or morewords have the same alignment, that is, they arelinked to the same target unit.
This initial list ofMWE candidates is, then, filtered to remove thosecandidates that: (a) match some sequences of POStags or words (patterns) defined in previous exper-iments (Caseli et al, 2009) or (b) whose frequencyis below a certain threshold.
The remaining unitsin the candidate list are considered to be MWEs.Several filtering patterns and minimum fre-quency thresholds were tested and three of themare presented in details here.
The first one (F1)is the same used during the manual building ofthe reference lists of MWEs: (a) patterns begin-ning with Article + Noun and beginning or finish-ing with verbs and (b) with a minimum frequencythreshold of 5.The second one (F2) is the same used in the(Caseli et al, 2009), mainly: (a) patterns begin-ning with determiner, auxiliary verb, pronoun, ad-verb, conjunction and surface forms such as thoseof the verb to be (are, is, was, were), relatives(that, what, when, which, who, why) and prepo-sitions (from, to, of ) and (b) with a minimum fre-quency threshold of 2.And the third one (F3) is the same as (Caseli etal., 2009) plus: (a) patterns beginning or finishingwith determiner, adverb, conjunction, preposition,verb, pronoun and numeral and (b) with a mini-mum frequency threshold of 2.5 Experiments and ResultsTable 1 shows the top 5 and the bottom 5 rankedcandidates returned by PMI and the alignment-based approach.
Although some of the results aregood, especially the top candidates, there is stillconsiderable noise among the candidates, as forinstance jogar video game (lit.
play video game).From table 1 it is also possible to notice that thealignment-based approach indeed extracts Pedi-atrics terms such as aleitamento materno (breast-feeding) and also other possible MWE that are notPediatrics terms such as estados unidos (UnitedStates).In table 2 we show the precision (number ofcorrect candidates among the proposed ones), re-call (number of correct candidates among those inreference lists) and F-measure ((2 ?
precision ?recall)/(precision + recall)) figures for the as-sociation measures using all the candidates (on thePMI alignment-basedOnline Mendelian Inheritance faixa eta?riaBeta Technology Incorporated aleitamento maternoLange Beta Technology estados unidosOxido Nitrico Inalatorio hipertensa?o arterialjogar video game leite materno... ...e um de couro cabeludoe a do bloqueio lact?
?ferosse que de emocional anatomiae a da neonato a termoe de nao duplas ma?es bebe?sTable 1: Top 5 and Bottom 5 MWE candidatesranked by PMI and alignment-based approachpt MWE candidates PMI MI# proposed bigrams 64,839 64,839# correct MWEs 1403 1403precision 2.16% 2.16%recall 98.73% 98.73%F 4.23% 4.23%# proposed trigrams 54,548 54,548# correct MWEs 701 701precision 1.29% 1.29%recall 96.03% 96.03%F 2.55% 2.55%# proposed bigrams 1,421 1,421# correct MWEs 155 261precision 10.91% 18.37%recall 10.91% 18.37%F 10.91% 18.37%# proposed trigrams 730 730# correct MWEs 44 20precision 6.03% 2.74%recall 6.03% 2.74%F 6.03% 2.74%Table 2: Evaluation of MWE candidates - PMI andMIfirst half of the table) and using the top 1,421 bi-gram and 730 trigram candidates (on the secondhalf).
From these latter results, we can see that thetop candidates produced by these measures do notagree with the Pediatrics Glossary, since there areonly at most 18.37% bigram and 6.03% trigramMWEs among the top candidates, as ranked byMI and PMI respectively.
Interestingly, MI had abetter performance for bigrams while for trigramsPMI performed better.On the other hand, looking at the alignment-based method, 34,277 pt MWE candidates wereextracted and Table 3 sumarizes the number ofcandidates filtered following the three filters de-scribed in 4.2: F1, F2 and F3.To evaluate the efficacy of the alignment-basedmethod in identifying multiword terms of Pedi-atrics, an automatic comparison was performedusing the Pediatrics Glossary.
In this auto-5pt MWE candidates F1 F2 F3# filtered by POS patterns 24,996 21,544 32,644# filtered by frequency 9,012 11,855 1,442# final Set 269 878 191Table 3: Number of pt MWE candidates filteredin the alignment-based approachpt MWE candidates F1 F2 F3# proposed bigrams 250 754 169# correct MWEs 48 95 65precision 19.20% 12.60% 38.46%recall 3.38% 6.69% 4.57%F 5.75% 8.74% 8.18%# proposed trigrams 19 110 20# correct MWEs 1 9 4precision 5.26% 8.18% 20.00%recall 0.14% 1.23% 0.55%F 0.27% 2.14% 1.07%# proposed bi/trigrams 269 864 189# correct MWEs 49 104 69precision 18.22% 12.04% 36,51%recall 2.28% 4.83% 3.21%F 4.05% 6.90% 5.90%Table 4: Evaluation of MWE candidatesmatic comparision we considered the final lists ofMWEs candidates generated by each filter in table3.
The number of matching entries and the valuesfor precision, recall and F-measure are showed intable 4.The different values of extracted MWEs (in ta-ble 3) and evaluated ones (in table 4) are due tothe restriction of considering only bigrams and tri-grams in the Pediatrics Glossary.
Then, longerMWEs ?
such as doenc?a arterial coronarianaprematura (premature coronary artery disease)and pequenos para idade gestacional (small forgestational age) ?
extracted by the alignment-based method are not being considered at the mo-ment.After the automatic comparison using the Pedi-atrics Glossary, an analysis by human experts wasperformed on one of the derived lists ?
that withthe best precision values so far (from filter F3).The human analysis was necessary since, as statedin (Caseli et al, 2009), the coverage of referencelists may be low, and it is likely that a lot of MWEcandidates that were not found in the PediatricsGlossary are nonetheless true MWEs.
In this pa-per only the pt MWE candidates extracted usingfilter F3 (as described in section 4.2) were manu-ally evaluated.From the 191 pt MWE candidates extracted af-ter F3, 69 candidates (36.1% of the total amount)were found in the bigrams or trigrams in theGlossary (see table 4).
Then, the remaining 122candidates (63.9%) were analysed by two native-speakers human judges, who classified each of the122 candidates as true, if it is a multiword expres-sion, or false, otherwise independently of beinga Pediatrics term.
For the judges, a sequence ofwords was considered a MWE mainly if it was:(1) a proper name or (2) a sequence of words forwhich the meaning cannot be obtained by com-pounding the meanings of its component words.The judgments of both judges were comparedand a disagreement of approximately 12% on mul-tiwords was verified.
This disagreement was alsomeasured by the kappa (K) measure (Carletta,1996), with k = 0.73, which does not preventconclusions to be drawn.
According to Carletta(1996), among other authors, a value of k between0.67 and 0.8 indicates a good agreement.In order to calculate the percentage of true can-didates among the 122, two approaches can befollowed, depending on what criteria one wantsto emphasize: precision or coverage (not recallbecause we are not calculating regarding a refer-ence list).
To emphasize the precision, one shouldconsider as genuine MWEs only those candidatesclassified as true by both judges, on the other hand,to emphasize the coverage, one should consideralso those candidates classified as true by just oneof them.
So, from 191 MWE candidates, 126(65.97%) were classified as true by both judgesand 145 (75.92%) by at least one of them.6 Conclusions and Future WorkMWEs are a complex and heterogeneous set ofphenomena that defy attempts to capture themfully, but due to their role in communication theyneed to be properly accounted for in NLP applica-tions and tasks.In this paper we investigated the identifica-tion of MWEs from technical domain, test-ing statistically-driven and alignment-based ap-proaches for identifying MWEs from a Pediatricsparallel corpus.
The alignment-based method gen-erates a targeted precision-oriented list of MWEcandidates, while the statistical methods producerecall-oriented results at the expense of precision.Therefore, the combination of these methods canproduce a set of MWE candidates that is both moreprecise than the latter and has more coverage thanthe former.
This can significantly speed up lex-icographic work.
Moreover, the results obtained6show that in comparison with the manual extrac-tion of MWEs, this approach can provide also ageneral set of MWE candidates in addition to themanually selected technical terms.Using the alignment-based extraction methodwe notice that it is possible to extract MWEs thatare Pediatrics terms with a precision of 38% forbigrams and 20% for trigrams, but with very lowrecall since only the MWEs in the Pediatrics Glos-sary were considered correct.
However, after amanual analysis carried out by two native speakersof Portuguese we found that the percentage of trueMWEs considered by both or at least one of themwere, respectively, 65.97% and 75.92%.
This wasa significative improvement but it is important tosay that, in this manual analysis, the human ex-perts classified the MWEs as true independently ofthem being Pediatrics terms.
So, as future work weintend to carry out a more carefull analysis withexperts in Pediatrics to evaluate how many MWEscandidates are also Pediatrics terms.In addition, we plan to investigate a weightedcombination of these methods, favouring thosethat have better precision.
Finally, we also in-tend to apply the results obtained in to the semi-automatic construction of ontologies.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank the TEXTQUIM/UFRGSgroup for making the Corpus of Pediatrics and Pe-diatrics Glossary available to us.
We also thank thefinancial support of FAPESP in bulding the paral-lel corpus.
This research has been partly fundedby the FINEP project COMUNICA.ReferencesCarme Armentano-Oller, Rafael C. Carrasco, Anto-nio M.
Corb?
?-Bellot, Mikel L. Forcada, MireiaGinest?
?-Rosell, Sergio Ortiz-Rojas, Juan Anto-nio Pe?rez-Ortiz, Gema Ram?
?rez-Sa?nchez, FelipeSa?nchez-Mart?
?nez, and Miriam A. Scalco.
2006.Open-source Portuguese-Spanish machine transla-tion.
In R. Vieira, P. Quaresma, M.G.V.
Nunes, N.J.Mamede, C. Oliveira, and M.C.
Dias, editors, Pro-ceedings of the 7th International Workshop on Com-putational Processing of Written and Spoken Por-tuguese, (PROPOR 2006), volume 3960 of LectureNotes in Computer Science, pages 50?59.
Springer-Verlag, May.Timothy Baldwin and Aline Villavicencio.
2002.
Ex-tracting the Unextractable: A Case Study on Verb-particles.
In Proceedings of the 6th Conference onNatural Language Learning (CoNLL-2002), pages98?104, Taipei, Taiwan.Timothy Baldwin, Emily M. Bender, Dan Flickinger,Ara Kim, and Stephan Oepen.
2004.
Road-testingthe English Resource Grammar over the British Na-tional Corpus.
In Proceedings of the Fourth In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2004), pages 2047?2050, Lisbon,Portugal.Timothy Baldwin.
2005.
The deep lexical acquisitionof English verb-particles.
Computer Speech andLanguage, Special Issue on Multiword Expressions,19(4):398?414.Satanjeev Banerjee and Ted Pedersen.
2003.
The De-sign, Implementation and Use of the Ngram Statis-tics Package.
In In Proceedings of the Fourth Inter-national Conference on Intelligent Text Processingand Computational Linguistics, pages 370?381.Douglas Biber, Stig Johansson, Geoffrey Leech, SusanConrad, and Edward Finegan.
1999.
Grammar ofSpoken and Written English.
Longman, Harlow.Jean Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on classi-fication tasks: the kappa statistics.
ComputationalLinguistics, 22(2):249?254.Carlos Ramisch and Aline Villavicencio and LeonardoMoura and Marco Idiart.
2008.
Picking themup and Figuring them out: Verb-Particle Construc-tions, Noise and Idiomaticity.
In Proceedings ofthe 12th Conference on Computational Natural Lan-guage Learning (CoNLL 2008), pages 49?56.John Carroll and Claire Grover.
1989.
The derivationof a large computational lexicon of English fromLDOCE.
In Bran Boguraev and Ted Briscoe, editors,Computational Lexicography for Natural LanguageProcessing, pages 117?134.
Longman, Harlow, UK.Helena M. Caseli, Carlos Ramisch, Maria G. V. Nunes,and Aline Villavicencio.
2009.
Alignment-basedextraction of multiword expressions.
Language Re-sources and Evaluation, to appear.Stefan Evert and Brigitte Krenn.
2005.
Using smallrandom samples for the manual evaluation of statis-tical association measures.
Computer Speech andLanguage, 19(4):450?466.Afsaneh Fazly and Suzanne Stevenson.
2007.
Distin-guishing Subtypes of Multiword Expressions UsingLinguistically-Motivated Statistical Measures.
InProceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspec-tive on Multiword Expressions, pages 9?16, Prague,June.Dan Flickinger.
2000.
On building a more efficientgrammar by exploiting types.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 6(1):15?28.7Knut Hofland.
1996.
A program for aligning Englishand Norwegian sentences.
In S. Hockey, N. Ide,and G. Perissinotto, editors, Research in HumanitiesComputing, pages 165?178, Oxford.
Oxford Univer-sity Press.Ray Jackendoff.
1997.
Twistin?
the night away.
Lan-guage, 73:534?59.Frank Keller and Mirella Lapata.
2003.
Using the Webto Obtain Frequencies for Unseen Bigrams.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 29(3):459?484.I.
Dan Melamed.
1997.
Automatic Discovery ofNon-Compositional Compounds in Parallel Data.
Ineprint arXiv:cmp-lg/9706027, pages 6027?+, June.Bego na Villada Moiro?n and Jorg Tiedemann.
2006.Identifying idiomatic expressions using automaticword-alignment.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Multi-word-expressions in a Multilingual Context(EACL-2006), pages 33?40, Trento, Italy.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2000.
Improvedstatistical alignment models.
In Proceedings of the38th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 440?447,Hong Kong, China, October.Darren Pearce.
2002.
A Comparative Evaluation ofCollocation Extraction Techniques.
In Proceedingsof the Third International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, pages 1?7, Las Palmas,Canary Islands, Spain.Scott S. L. Piao, Guangfan Sun, Paul Rayson, andQi Yuan.
2006.
Automatic Extraction of Chi-nese Multiword Expressions with a Statistical Tool.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Multi-word-expressions in a Multilingual Context (EACL-2006),pages 17?24, Trento, Italy, April.William H. Press, Saul A. Teukolsky, William T. Vet-terling, and Brian P. Flannery.
1992.
NumericalRecipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing.
Sec-ond edition.
Cambridge University Press.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
MultiwordExpressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third International Conference onComputational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Pro-cessing (CICLing-2002), volume 2276 of (LectureNotes in Computer Science), pages 1?15, London,UK.
Springer-Verlag.Tim Van de Cruys and Bego na Villada Moiro?n.
2007.Semantics-based Multiword Expression Extraction.In Proceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Pre-spective on Multiword Expressions, pages 25?32,Prague, June.Aline Villavicencio, Valia Kordoni, Yi Zhang, MarcoIdiart, and Carlos Ramisch.
2007.
Validation andEvaluation of Automatically Acquired MultiwordExpressions for Grammar Engineering.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2007 Joint Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing andComputational Natural Language Learning, pages1034?1043, Prague, June.Aline Villavicencio.
2005.
The Availability of Verb-Particle Constructions in Lexical Resources: HowMuch is Enough?
Journal of Computer Speech andLanguage Processing, 19(4):415?432.Yi Zhang, Valia Kordoni, Aline Villavicencio, andMarco Idiart.
2006.
Automated Multiword Ex-pression Prediction for Grammar Engineering.
InProceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Expres-sions: Identifying and Exploiting Underlying Prop-erties, pages 36?44, Sydney, Australia, July.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.8
