Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition, pages 1?9,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards a formal view of corrective feedbackStaffan Larsson and Robin CooperDepartment of Philosophy, Linguistics and Theory of ScienceUniversity of Gothenburg{sl,cooper}@ling.gu.seAbstractThis paper introduces a formal view ofthe semantics and pragmatics of correctivefeedback in dialogues between adults andchildren.
The goal of this research is togive a formal account of language coor-dination in dialogue, and semantic coor-dination in particular.
Accounting for se-mantic coordination requires (1) a seman-tics, i.e.
an architecture allowing for dy-namic meanings and meaning updates asresults of dialogue moves, and (2) a prag-matics, describing the dialogue moves in-volved in semantic coordination.
We illus-trate the general approach by applying itto some examples from the literature oncorrective feedback, and provide a fairlydetailed discussion of one example usingTTR (Type Theory with Records) to for-malize concepts.
TTR provides an analy-sis of linguistic content which is structuredin order to allow modification and similar-ity metrics, and a framework for describ-ing dialogue moves and resulting updatesto linguistic resources.1 IntroductionHere are a few examples of corrective feedback:A: That?s a nice bear.B: Yes, it?s a nice panda.Abe: I?m trying to tip this over, can you tip itover?
Can you tip it over?Mother: Okay I?ll turn it over for you.Adam: Mommy, where my plate?Mother: You mean your saucer?Naomi: Birdie birdie.Mother: Not a birdie, a seal.Naomi: mittens.Father: gloves.The first one is made up, the others are quotedfrom various sources in (Clark and Wong, 2002)and (Clark, 2007).
In general, corrective feedbackcan be regarded as offering an alternative form tothe one that the speaker used.
We are interestedin interactions such as these since we believe thatdialogue interaction plays an important role in es-tablishing a shared language, not only in first (orsecond) language acquisition but also in the coor-dination of meaning in adult language, in histori-cal language change, and in language evolution.Two agents do not need to share exactly thesame linguistic resources (grammar, lexicon etc.
)in order to be able to communicate, and an agent?slinguistic resources can change during the courseof a dialogue when she is confronted with a (forher) innovative use.
For example, research onalignment shows that agents negotiate domain-specific microlanguages for the purposes of dis-cussing the particular domain at hand (Clark andWilkes-Gibbs, 1986; Garrod and Anderson, 1987;Pickering and Garrod, 2004; Brennan and Clark,1996; Healey, 1997; Larsson, 2007).
We will usethe term semantic coordination to refer to the pro-cess of interactively coordinating the meanings oflinguistic expressions.This paper presents work towards a formal the-ory of corrective feedback, and semantic coordina-tion in general.
It takes a view of natural languagesas toolboxes for constructing domain-specific mi-crolanguages, and provides an analysis of linguis-tic content which is structured in order to allowmodification of, and similarity metrics over, mean-ings.According to (Cooper and Ranta, 2008), a?language?
such as Swedish or English is to be1regarded as a collection of resources (a ?tool-box?)
which can be used to construct local micro-languages.
We take the view that speakers of natu-ral languages are constantly in the process of cre-ating new language to meet the needs of novel sit-uations in which they find themselves.Accounting for corrective feedback requires (1)dynamic representations of concepts which can bemodified in various ways, in a process of seman-tic coordination, and (2) a description of dialoguestrategies involved in semantic coordination.Accordingly, the research effort which the workpresented here is part of aims towards an accountof semantic coordination in dialogue, consisting oftwo parts:1. semantics: an account of how meanings (andconcepts) can be updated2.
pragmatics: an account of how meanings(and concepts) are coordinated in dialogueand how dialogue moves governing coordi-nation are related to semantic updatesThese parts will be presented below, startingwith the pragmatics.
At the end of the paper, wewill step back and consider the implications of ourtentative results.2 The pragmatics of corrective feedbackTo get a handle on the pragmatic processes in-volved in corrective feedback, we will show howsuch interactions can be analysed in terms of di-alogue moves related to semantic updates.
Thisapproach builds on, and extends, the InformationState Update approach to dialogue management(Traum and Larsson, 2003).2.1 A taxonomy of corrective feedbackBelow, we classify our examples into four kinds ofcorrective feedback.?
Example 1: ?In-repair??
Abe: I?m trying to tip this over, can youtip it over?
Can you tip it over??
Mother: Okay I?ll turn it over for you.?
Example 2: Clarification request?
Adam: Mommy, where my plate??
Mother: You mean your saucer??
Example 3: ?Explicit replace??
Naomi: Birdie birdie.?
Mother: Not a birdie, a seal.?
Example 4: ?Bare?
correction?
Naomi: mittens.?
Father: gloves.2.2 Dialogue moves for corrective feedbackWe will now introduce a representation of dia-logue moves used in corrective feedback.
The gen-eral format we will use is?
offer-form: TYPE(ARGS)where ARGS may include one or several of thefollowing:?
proposed form (P below)?
replaced form (R below)?
sentence frame (F below)In the representation above, TYPE is one of thefollowing, corresponding to the kinds of correctivefeedback distinguished above:?
in-repair?
cr?
explicit-replace?
bareIn-repair The in-repair type of corrective feed-back takes two arguments, the proposed form anda sentence frame.
It is generally preceded by anutterance containing the sentence frame applied tothe replaced form.?
offer-form:in-repair(P , F )For illustration, let?s look again at our example,now with typography indicating PROPOSEDFORM, replaced form and sentence frame:A(be): Can you tip it over?M(other): Okay I?ll TURN it over for you.In relation to A?s utterance, M ?s utterancecontains the same sentence frame F , roughly?
[Mother] it over?.
However, they differ in thatwhereas M ?s utterance has the proposed word P= ?TURN?, A?s utterance has R = ?tip?.
If we2say that sentence frames can be applied to ex-pressions, resulting in the ?
?
in the frame beingreplaced with the expression (much as in lambdareduction), we can say that A?s utterance has theform ?F (R)?
= ?
[Mother] it over?(?turn?)
=?
[Mother] turn it over?
whereas M ?s utterancehas the form ?F (R)?.
M ?s utterance correspondsto the dialogue move:offer-form:in-repair(?turn?, ?
[M] [it] over?
)Note that the syntactic parallelism is not com-plete; we have ignored the complication that oneutterance contains ?can?
and the other ?will?
(inreduced form).
The notion of sentence frame usedhere is a simplification of a more complex relationof syntactic and semantic parallelism which needsto be further explored.Note also that in addition to providing correc-tive feedback, M ?s utterance also accepts the con-tent of the previous contribution.
Note that Mmight instead have said something like ?No, butI?ll turn it over for you?.Clarification requests As in the case of in-repair offers, offers involving clarification requestsalso provide the proposed form together with asentence frame linking the move to a previous ut-terance by the child; presuming that the latter hasthe form ?...
F (R)?, the offer can be representedasoffer-form:cr(P , F )Let?s revisit our example, making explicit theP , F and R parameters:A(dam): Mommy, where my plate?M(other): You mean your SAUCER?Here, we have F = ?
[Adam?s] ?, R = ?plate?and P = ?SAUCER?.
Accordingly, we can de-scribe M ?s utterance as a dialogue move:offer-form:cr(?saucer?, ?
[A?s] ?
)Typically, CRs have the interpretation ?youmean/want F (P )??.
In addition to offering an al-ternative form P of expression, a clarification re-quest also explicitly raises the issue whether theoffer of P is accepted, and is typically followedby a positive (or negative) answer by the child.Note that CRs, as well as some other typesof offers, may not be intended as corrections bythe adult, but simply as attempts at understandingwhat the child wants to communicate.
The cru-cial point for our purposes here is the effect thesemoves have on the addressee, rather than the un-derlying intention.
In general, if I learn somethingfrom someone else, it may not be of great impor-tance for my learning if they intended for me tolearn it or not.Explicit replace In contrast to in-repairs andclarification requests, explicit offers of replace-ments need not rely on sentence frames to figureout the replaced form, as it is (as the nameindicates) explicitly mentioned in the offer.N(aomi): Birdie birdieM(other): Not a birdie, a SEALWe represent this kind of dialogue move thus:offer-form:explicit-replace(P , R)In the example, the move is offer-form:explicit-replace(?seal?, ?birdie?).
Explicitreplace offers are preceded by an utteranceconsisting of or containing the replaced form R,and typically have the form ?
(that?s) not DET R,(that?s) DET P ?
or similar.Explicit replace offers differ from in-repairs andclarification requests by clearly signalling that thereplaced form is not appropriate, and by beingclearly intended as providing corrections ratherthan (just) figuring out what the child is trying tocommunicate.Bare offers Bare offers are the formally sim-plest kind of corrective feedback, consistingsimply of the proposed form.Naomi: MittensFather: GLOVES.The dialogue move representation isoffer-form:bare(P )In the example, the move is offer-form:bare(?gloves?).
Since neither sentenceframe or replaced form is provided, the replacedform must be figured out from the conversationalsituation as a whole.
Just as explicit replace offers,bare offers are primarily intended as providing3corrections.2.3 Generalising the dialogue moverepresentationThe different variants for corrective feedback alldo basically the same work; they indicate thatthe child needs to modify his or her take on themeaning of the proposed term, and perhaps alsothe replaced term.
A possible difference is thatsome forms more clearly provide evidence that thereplaced form is not appropriate, whereas othersleave this open.
Ignoring this complication for themoment, we can provide a general form for thevarious types of offers of new forms, with the pro-posed form and the replaced form as arguments:offer-form(P , R)Using this representation, the dialogue moveanalyses above can be reformulated as, in the orderthey appear above:?
offer-form(?turn?, ?tip?)?
offer-form(?saucer?, ?plate?)?
offer-form(?seal?, ?birdie?)?
offer-form(?gloves?, ?mittens?
)In moves which do not explicitly indicate the re-placed form R, contextual interpretation involveschart alignment and reasoning about active edges(represented here by the sentence frame) to locatean expression R parallel to P in the previous ut-terance.2.4 Agents that coordinate resourcesAs in the information state update approach ingeneral, dialogue moves are associated with in-formation state updates.
For semantic coordina-tion, the kind of update is rather different fromthe one associated with dialogue moves for coor-dinating on task-related information, and involvesupdating the linguistic resources available to theagent (grammar, lexicon, semantic interpretationrules etc.
), rather than e.g.
the conversationalscoreboard as such.
Our view is that agents donot just have monolithic linguistic resources as isstandardly assumed.
Rather they have generic re-sources which they modify to construct local re-sources for sublanguages for use in specific sit-uations.
Thus an agent A may associate a lin-guistic expression c with a particular concept (orcollection of concepts if c is ambiguous) [c]A inits generic resource.
In a particular domain ?
cmay be associated with a modified version of [c]A,[c]A?
.
In some cases [c]A?
may contain a smallernumber of concepts than [c]A, representing a de-crease in ambiguity.
Particular concepts in [c]A?may be a refinement of one in [c]A, that is, the do-main related concepts have an extension which isa proper subset of the extension of the correspond-ing generic concept.
This will, however, not be thecase in general.
For example, a black hole in thephysics domain is not normally regarded as an ob-ject described by the generic or standard meaningof black hole provided by our linguistic resourcesoutside the physical domain.
Similarly a variablein the domain of logic is a syntactic expressionwhereas a variable in experimental psychology isnot and quite possibly the word variable is noteven a noun in generic linguistic resources.Our idea is that the motor for generating newsuch local resources in an agent lies in coordinat-ing resources with another agent in a particularcommunicative situation s. The event s might bea turn in a dialogue, as in the examples we are dis-cussing in this paper, or, might, for example, bea reading event.
In a communicative situation s,an agent A may be confronted with an innovativeutterance c, that is, an utterance which either useslinguistic expressions not already present in A?sresources or linguistic expressions known by Abut associated with an interpretation distinct fromthat provided by A?s resources.
At this point, Ahas to accommodate an interpretation for c whichis specific to s, [c]As , and which may be anchoredto the specific objects under discussion in s.Whereas in a view of semantics inherited fromformal logic there is a pairing between a linguis-tic expression c and an interpretation c?
(or a set ofseveral interpretations if c is ambiguous), we wantto see c as related to several interpretations: [c]Asfor communicative situations s, [c]A?
for domains?
(where we imagine that the domains are col-lected into a complex hierarchy or more and lessgeneral domains) and ultimately a general linguis-tic resource which is domain independent, [c]A.We think of the acquisition of a pairing of an ex-pression c with an interpretation c?
as a progres-sion from an instance where c?
is [c]As for someparticular communicative situation s, through po-tentially a series of increasingly general domains?where c?
is regarded as being one of the interpre-tations in [c]A?
and finally arriving at a state where4c?
is associated with c as part of a domain indepen-dent generic resource, that is, c?
is in [c]A. Thereis no guarantee that any expression-interpretationpair will survive even beyond the particular com-municative situation in which A first encounteredit.
For example, the kind of ad hoc coinagesdescribed in (Garrod and Anderson, 1987) us-ing words like leg to describe part of an oddlyshaped maze in the maze game probably do notsurvive beyond the particular dialogue in whichthey occur.
The factors involved in determin-ing how a particular expression-interpretation pairprogresses we see as inherently stochastic with pa-rameters including the degree to which A regardstheir interlocutor as an expert, how many times thepairing has been observed in other communicativesituations and with different interlocutors, the util-ity of the interpretation in different communicativesituations, and positive or negative feedback ob-tained when using the pairing in a communicativesituation.
For example, an agent may only allow apairing to progress when it has been observed in atleast n different communicative situations at leastm of which were with an interlocutor consideredto be an expert, and so on.
We do not yet have aprecise proposal for a theory of these stochastic as-pects but rather are seeking to lay the groundworkof a semantic treatment on which such a theorycould be built.3 The semantics of corrective feedback3.1 Representing concepts using TTRWe shall make use of type theory with records(TTR) as characterized in Cooper (2005; 2008)and elsewhere.
The advantage of TTR is that itintegrates logical techniques such as binding andthe lambda-calculus into feature-structure likeobjects called record types.
Thus we get morestructure than in a traditional formal semanticsand more logic than is available in traditionalunification-based systems.
The feature structurelike properties are important for developingsimilarity metrics on meanings and for thestraightforward definition of meanings modifi-cations involving refinement and generalization.The logical aspects are important for relatingour semantics to the model and proof theoretictradition associated with compositional semantics.Below is an example of a record type:[REF : IndSIZE : size(REF, MuchBiggerThanMe)SHAPE : shape(REF, BearShape)]A record of this type has to have fields withthe same labels as those in the type.
(It may alsoinclude additional fields not required by the type.
)In place of the types which occur to the right of?:?
in the record type, the record must contain anobject of that type.
Here is an example of a recordof the above type:??
?REF = obj123SIZE = sizesensorreading85SHAPE = shapesensorreading62COLOUR = coloursensorreadning78??
?Thus, for example, what occurs to the right ofthe ?=?
in the REF field of the record is an objectof type Ind, that is, an individual.
Types whichare constructed with predicates like size and shapeare sometimes referred to as ?types of proof?.
Theidea is that something of this type would be a proofthat a given individual (the first argument) has acertain size or shape (the second argument).
Onecan have different ideas of what kind of objectscount as proofs.
Here we are assuming that theproof-objects are readings from sensors.
This is asecond way (in addition to the progression of lo-cal resources towards general resources) that ourtheory interfaces with a statistical non-categoricalworld.
We imagine that the mapping from sensorreadings to types involves sampling of analoguedata in a way that is not unsimilar to the digiti-zation process involved, for example, in speechrecognition.
Again we have nothing detailed tosay about this at the moment, although we regardit as an important part of our theory that it is ableto make a connection between the realm of featurevectors and the realm of model-theoretic seman-tics.Types constructed with predicates may also bedependent.
This is represented by the fact that ar-guments to the predicate may be represented bylabels used on the left of the ?:?
elsewhere in therecord type.
This means, for example, that in con-sidering whether a record is of the record type, youwill need to find a proof that the object which is inthe REF-field of the record has the size representedby MuchBiggerThanMe.
That is, this type dependson the value for the REF-field.Some of our types will contain manifest fields(Coquand et al, 2004) like the REF-field in thefollowing type:5[REF=obj123 : IndSIZE : size(REF, MuchBiggerThanMe)SHAPE : shape(REF, BearShape)][REF=obj123:Ind]is a convenient notation for[REF : Indobj123]where Indobj123 is a singletontype.
If a : T , then Ta is a singleton type andb : Ta (i.e.
b is of type Ta) iff b = a. Manifestfields allow us to progressively specify what val-ues are required for the fields in a type.An important notion in this kind of type theoryis that of subtype.
For example,[REF : IndSIZE : size(REF, MuchBiggerThanMe)]is a subtype of[REF : Ind]as is also[REF=obj123 : Ind]The subtype relation corresponds to that of sub-sumption in typed feature structures.
This gives usthe ability to create type hierarchies correspondingto ontologies (in the sense, for example, of OWL).Such ontologies (coded in terms of record types)play an important role in our notion of resourcesavailable to an agent.
In fact, modelling conceptsin terms of record types commits us to a view ofconcepts which is very closely related to work onontologies.
But our view of the creation of lo-cal situation specific and domain related resourcesin addition to generic resources means that agentshave access not to a single generic ontology butalso situation specific and domain related ontolo-gies.
And, perhaps most important of all, the pro-cess of semantic coordination with an interlocutorcan involve local ad hoc adjustment to an ontol-ogy.
This plays an important role in characteriz-ing the options open to an agent when confrontedwith an innovative utterance.
We attempt to illus-trate this below by working in more detail througha specific example.3.2 ?Panda?
as an example of innovative useWe provide an analysis ofB?s utterance in our ini-tial example as a move of offering ?panda?
as analternative for ?bear?, and as potentially triggeringan update onA?s concepts for ?bear?
and ?panda?.A: That?s a nice bearB: Yes, it?s a nice pandaThe dialogue move analysis of this example isoffer-form:in-repair(?panda?, ?
[it] is a nice ?
),or in the generalised format offer-form(?panda?,?bear?
).We assume that, before B?s utterance, A hasa single concept of ?bear?
in a domain called?zoo?, that is, a unique member of the collection[bear]Azoo.
We represent it in Figure 1.
A?s take onthe communicative situation where B?s utterancetakes place (that is,A?s dialogue information state,much simplified for expository reasons) is shownin Figure 2.
This is intended to describe a situationat a zoo, where a bear-shaped object much biggerthan A is in focus (FOO here stands for ?FocusedObject?
).What happens after B?s utterance?
First, we as-sume that B correctly understands A?s utteranceas offering ?panda?
as an alternative for ?bear?.Now, assuming that B has not observed the word?panda?
before,A needs to create a panda-concept[panda]As , local to the communicative situation sresulting from B?s utterance.
Since ?panda?
hasbeen aligned with ?bear?, it is natural to basethe new panda concept on the bear concept, as-sociated with the domain.
Here A is confrontedwith a fundamental choice.
Should a condition?panda(REF)?
be added to the concept in additionto the condition ?bear(REF)?
making the pandaconcept be a subtype of the bear concept or shouldthe panda condition replace the bear condition,making panda and bear sisters in the ontology?There is not enough evidence in this simple ex-change to determine this.1 We will choose to re-place the bear condition with the panda condition.But there is more that must happen.A has observed that the use of ?panda?
in srefers to the focused object obj123.
Followingthe principle of contrast (Clark and Wong, 2002)which states that ?
(s)peakers take every differencein form to mark a difference in meaning?, B takes?panda?
to have a different meaning than ?bear?in some respect other than that it is a panda asopposed to a bear, and looks for something aboutobj123 which might distinguish it from previouslyobserved bears.
For example, the child might de-cide that it is the colour (black and white) that1And indeed many people can reach adulthood, thepresent authors included, without being sure whether pandasare a kind of bear or not.6?????
?REF : IndPHYS : phys-obj(REF)ANIM : animate(REF)SIZE : size(REF, MuchBiggerThanMe)SHAPE : shape(REF, BearShape)BEAR : bear(REF)?????
?Figure 1: A?s ?bear?
concept in the domain ?zoo?
before the interaction??
?DOMAIN : zooSHARED :?
?FOO=obj123 : IndCOM=[C1 : nice(FOO)C2 : bear(FOO)]: RecType????
?Figure 2: A?s take on sdistinguishes it from previously observed bears(which have all been brown)2.
A now creates asituated interpretation [panda]As of ?panda?, basedon [bear]Azoo, as shown in Figure 3.But now if colour is being used to distin-guish between bears and pandas in situation s, Ashould create a refined bear concept for s, namelyFigure 4 reflecting the hypothesis that bears arebrown.
If A is optimistic, possibly influencedby the degree of expertise which A assigns to B(?Mummy knows about zoos?
), A might imme-diately associate the concept in Figure 4 with thezoo domain, that is, make it be a new value for[bear]Azoo and similarly for a dereferenced versionof Figure 3, that is a version in which the manifestfield is replaced by[REF : Ind].
Finally, A?s newtake on s is shown in Figure 5; A has accepted thatthe focused object is a panda.4 ConclusionWe have sketched an account of how conceptscan be updated as a result of language use ininteraction.
Such processes enable coordinationof domain-specific microlanguages, involving adomain-specific grammar and lexicon, an ontol-ogy, and a mapping between lexicon and ontology.There are many mechanisms for semantic coor-dination, some of which can be described as cor-rective feedback: clarification requests, explicitcorrections, meaning accommodation (observinginstances of language use and silently adapting tosuccessful instances) and explicit negotiation.
Se-mantic coordination, in turn, is a kind of languagecoordination (other kinds include e.g.
phonetic co-2This account relies on A having a memory of previouslyobserved instances of a concept, in addition to the concept it-self (which in the case of ?bear?
does not contain informationabout colour).ordination).
Finally, language coordination coex-ists with information coordination, the exchang-ing and sharing of information (agreeing on rele-vant information and future action; maintaining ashared view on current topics of discussion, rele-vant questions etc.).
Arguably, the main point oflanguage coordination is to enable information co-ordination.Semantic coordination happens in dialogue; itis part of language coordination; and it is a pre-requisite for information coordination.
If we saythat a linguistic expression c has meaning onlyif it is possible to exchange information using c,then semantic coordination is essential to mean-ing.
A linguistic expression c has meaning in alanguage community when the community mem-bers are sufficiently coordinated with respect tothe meaning of c to allow them to use c to ex-change information.
In other words: meaningemerges from a process of semantic coordinationin dialogue.AcknowledgementThis research was supported by The Swedish BankTercentenary Foundation Project P2007/0717, Se-mantic Coordination in Dialogue.7??????
?REF=obj123 : IndPHYS : phys-obj(REF)ANIM : animate(REF)SIZE : size(REF, MuchBiggerThanMe)SHAPE : shape(REF, BearShape)COLOUR : colour(REF, BlackAndWhite)PANDA : panda(REF)??????
?Figure 3: A?s situated interpretation of ?panda?
in situation s.??????
?REF : IndPHYS : phys-obj(REF)ANIM : animate(REF)SIZE : size(REF, MuchBiggerThanMe)SHAPE : shape(REF, BearShape)COLOUR : colour(REF, Brown)BEAR : bear (REF)??????
?Figure 4: A?s local ?bear?
concept after integrating B?s utterance??
?DOMAIN : zooSHARED :?
?FOO=obj123 : IndCOM=[C1 : nice(FOO)C2 : panda(FOO)]: RecType????
?Figure 5: A?s revised take on s8ReferencesS.
E. Brennan and H. H. Clark.
1996.
Conceptualpacts and lexical choice in conversation.
Journal ofExperimental Psychology: Learning, Memory andCognition, 22:482?493.H.
H. Clark and D. Wilkes-Gibbs.
1986.
Refering as acollaborative process.
Cognition, 22:1?39.Eve V. Clark and Andrew D. W. Wong.
2002.
Prag-matic directions about language use: Offers ofwords and relations.
Language in Society, 31:181?212.E.
V. Clark.
2007.
Young children?s uptake ofnew words in conversation.
Language in Society,36:157?82.Robin Cooper and Aarne Ranta.
2008.
Natural lan-guages as collections of resources.
In Robin Cooperand Ruth Kempson, editors, Language in Flux: Re-lating Dialogue Coordination to Language Varia-tion, Change and Evolution.
College Publications,London.Robin Cooper.
2005.
Austinian truth, attitudes andtype theory.
Research on Language and Computa-tion, 3:333?362.Robin Cooper.
2008.
Type theory with records andunification-based grammar.
In Fritz Hamm andStephan Kepser, editors, Logics for Linguistic Struc-tures.
Mouton de Gruyter.Thierry Coquand, Randy Pollack, and MakotoTakeyama.
2004.
A logical framework with de-pendently typed records.
Fundamenta Informaticae,XX:1?22.Simon C. Garrod and Anthony Anderson.
1987.
Say-ing what you mean in dialogue: a study in concep-tual and semantic co-ordination.
Cognition, 27:181?218.P.G.T.
Healey.
1997.
Expertise or expertese?
: Theemergence of task-oriented sub-languages.
In M.G.Shafto and P. Langley, editors, Proceedings of the19th Annual Conference of the Cognitive ScienceSociety, pages 301?306.Staffan Larsson.
2007.
Coordinating on ad-hoc se-mantic systems in dialogue.
In Proceedings of the10th workshop on the semantics and pragmatics ofdialogue.Martin J. Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Towarda mechanistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioraland Brain Sciences, 27(02):169?226, April.David Traum and Staffan Larsson.
2003.
The in-formation state approach to dialogue management.In Ronnie Smith and Jan Kuppevelt, editors, Cur-rent and New Directions in Discourse & Dialogue.Kluwer Academic Publishers.9
