Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 102?105,Athens, Greece, 30 ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards a game-theoretic approach to content determinationRalf KlabundeRuhr-Universita?t BochumBochum, Germanyklabunde@linguistics.rub.deAbstractThis paper argues for a game-theoretic ap-proach to content determination that usestext-type specific strategies in order to de-termine the optimal content for varioususer types.
By means of content deter-mination for the description of numericaldata the benefits of a game-theoretic treat-ment of content determination are out-lined.1 IntroductionThis is a programmatic paper on the principles ofcontent determination in natural language genera-tion (NLG).
It arose from the insight that we do notknow much about the underlying principles andcomputational properties of several tasks in NLG.Especially conceptualization ?
the selection of theinformation to be conveyed in a natural languagetext, and the adaptation of this information to thelanguage-specific requirements ?
is still a whitespot on the generation map (Guhe, 2007).
Contentdetermination is that sub-process during concep-tualization that is responsible for the selection ofthe information to be conveyed and its ordering.Several authors assume that establishing rhetori-cal relations between informational units and thesuccessive construction of tree structures for theoverall information should also be considered asa content determination task (see, e.g.
Reiter andDale (2000)), but I will ignore this task in this pa-per and confine my considerations to the selectionand ordering of informational units, in particularpropositions.Content determination is coupled with the lin-guistic domain in two ways, since the content doesnot only need to be expressible in the target lan-guage, but the determination process is alreadyaffected by pragmatic organisation principles forspecific text types.
I am convinced that game the-ory is the appropriate tool for a formulation ofthese principles.In what follows, I will first explain whycontent determination should be viewed as agame played by the speaker/system S andthe speaker?s/system?s representation of a lis-tener/user L ?
the ?user model?.
After that I willoutline the different strategies relevant for contentdetermination by means of the content for user-tailored descriptions of numerical data.2 Appproaches to content determinationin NLGThe various approaches to content determinationproposed in the literature may be classified in atwo-dimensional way, viz.
with respect to infor-mation flow (top down vs. bottom-up), and withrespect to the methods used (reasoning or the useof schemas).From an engineering perspective ?
the dominantview in NLG ?
a top-down approach, focusing onthe communicative goal and using schemas whichdetermine where to realize which information, isthe most attractive and most often method used, al-though it lacks of a theoretical grounding.
A deepreasoning approach would thus be more attractive,but is not always feasible in practice.One of the problems in content determination isthat the amount and quality of the information tobe conveyed depends on the interests and cognitiveabilities of the respective user and the coherencerequirement.
Content determination is selectingmaterial from the domain in the hope that it willpermit a coherent realization as a text.
Hence, thissub-task should be viewed as a process that is alsoconstrained by pragmatic principles for establish-ing coherence.I proceed on the assumption that a theoreticallywell-founded reasoning approach can be estab-lished within the framework of analytic game the-ory (see, e.g., Shoham and Leyton-Brown (2009)).102The benefit of a game theoretic treatment is its fo-cus on interacting agents and the reasoning mech-anisms associated with games: If we are able toshow that the content to be conveyed is determinedby concepts of rational interaction, then we getinsights into the principles that guide the overallcontent determination process.The basic ideas are as follows: First, the ran-dom device ?
used in game-theoretic pragmaticsto provide S with some meaning ?
must be re-placed by a function that maps informational unitsof the domain to propositions.
Additionally, L?sreasoning capabilities are taken into account.
Theinterplay of both components reflects S?s cogni-tive effort to construct the proposition and repre-sents some of the adaptive cognitive mechanismsof S .
It is well known from pragmatic and psy-cholinguistic studies that speakers do not only tryto minimize their own effort in the production pro-cess, but that they take into account features of thelistener and adopt content and form of their utter-ance to the listener?s assumed cognitive and lin-guistic capabilities.
Hence, the process of contentdetermination is guided by speaker-strategies andadaptation processes which should be modelled asadopted addressee-strategies.
Under this view, theultimate goal of content determination is to find acoherent catenation of propositions that is tailoredto the addressee: S is a decision-maker and she isalready playing with L at pre-linguistic stages.3 Game theoretic pragmaticsJa?ger (2007) describes the conception of game-theoretic pragmatic analyses as follows: A gameis an utterance situation with a speaker S and ahearer L as players.
The actions performed bythese players are the production and interpretationof utterances, and the payoffs represent the cogni-tive and linguistic expenses of both players.
If a setM of meanings is given and a set F of linguisticforms, a speaker strategy s is a function from Mto F .
Accordingly, a hearer strategy h is a func-tion from F to M .
In this paper, I assume thatM is a set of propositions, i.e.
a set of situative,truth-functional, concepts.Within this framework, the production processis treated in a simplifying way.
A random deviceassigns some meaning m ?
M to S who has to se-lect an appropriate form f ?
F .
Successful com-munication is given if L is able to reconstruct mfrom f .
The ?-function defines just this:?m(s, h) ={1 iff h(s(m)) = m0 otherwise(1)S has a choice between simple or more complexexpressions to express the meaning m. In orderto measure this complexity, a function cost fromF to the nonnegative real numbers is given whoseexact shape is of no interest for this paper.
Thespeaker utility us refers to the cost-function in ad-dition to some positive coefficient k that repre-sents the speaker?s priorities.
A low value of kindicates that communicative success is more im-portant than minimal effort, and a high value of kmeans that effort is more important than success.us(m, s, h) = ?m(s, h)?
k ?
cost(s(m)) (2)The addressee?s utility can be identified with the?-function:uh(m, s, h) = ?m(s, h) (3)In order to adopt Ja?ger?s characterization of agame-theoretic model of communication to NLGpurposes, one has to modify it into two direc-tions.
The minor change concerns the random de-vice that assigns meanings to the speaker.
I replacethis device by a function i that maps informationalunits d of the domain D to propositions p ?
M .The production grammar s picks up these propo-sitions and transforms them into linguistic formsf .The more substantial change concerns thehearer strategy.
From an NLG perspective, one isnot primarily interested in a hearer strategy thatmaps forms to meanings, but in the effect of theconveyed information w.r.t.
the hearer?s informa-tion state TL.
The aim of S is to modify TL, but itis L who decides how to process the informationconveyed by S .
In general, L?s interpretation taskis to find an explanation for p on the basis of hisown beliefs.
In other words, interpretation is ab-ductive reasoning (Hobbs et al, 1993).
SupposeS conveys a set of propositions A.
Then the ac-tions available to L ?
if A is new information forhim ?
are several update mechanisms up(TL, A).He may just add A to TLand accept A as new in-formation without finding any explanation for A:up(TL, A) = (TL?
A) = TL.
The other extremewould be to compute the set of all logical conse-103quences of TL?A, i.e.
up(TL, A) = Cn(TL?A).1However, this set is just the ideal state of a logi-cally omniscient person; a more realistic view is tocharacterize the strategies of L by different depthsin reasoning, starting from depth = 0 (i.e.
TL?A)up to some information state close to Cn(TL?A).I use up(TL, A) ?
Cn(TL?
A) to represent thisstate.
Note that up(TL, A) ?
Cn(TL?
A) is nota fixed information state but depends on the usertype.
If the players want to be communicativelysuccessful, L should ideally try to find an expla-nation for A that results in that mentioned infor-mation state.
Hence, communicative success withrespect to a single proposition p may now be de-fined by:?d(s, h, i, up) =??????????
?1 iff h(s(i(d))) = i(d) = pandup(TL, p) ?
Cn(TL?
{p})0 otherwise(4)The speaker utility is defined as:us(s, h, i, up) = ?d(s, h, i, up) ?
k ?
cost(i(d))(5)and the hearer utility isuh(s, h, i, up) = ?d(s, h, i, up) (6)Within this overall picture of information ex-change and communicative success, content deter-mination is the interplay of i with up(TL, ran(i)),i.e.
the update of L?s information state with therange of i.
In the rest of this paper I will showby means of an example how this interplay can bespelled out in detail.
As will hopefully become ap-parent, the approach amounts to some sort of game?
a game that takes into account specific strategiesof S and the abductive inference strategies of L tocreate a content that is optimal for both.4 Content determination for reports ofnumerical dataLet us assume that the content underlying reportsof performance data shall be tailored to an expertand a layman, respectively.
The essential concep-tualization process for content of this type is thesummarization of numerical data to propositionalunits that are tailored to the addressee?s needs.
I1Consider that abduction in its simplest form can be re-formulated in deductive terms.use normal form games for this task in which theexpertises of the users are reflected in differentNash equilibria.
L as expert requires content witha different equilibrium than L as layman does.The basic scenario is as follows: A speedome-ter f provides data about speed and the distancecovered during a cycling tour.
These numericaldata shall be transformed into propositional unitsthat are optimal for the respective user types.
Forreasons of clarity, let us assume two different usertypes only, a training expert and a layman whowant to receive a detailed and a more shallow de-scription, respectively.
In both cases the actualvalues recorded by the speedometer will be com-pared with ideal training values, and the deviationsfrom these ideal values shall be reported in thegenerated text.Of course, the main task for S is to summa-rize these numerical data in single propositions,but how to determine the amount of data to be putinto one proposition?
I assume that S?s side of thecoin is an approximation problem.
The grade ofdetail required for the expert and the layman shallbe given by an approximation a of the function f .Let us assume that the approximation is 1/10 forthe expert and 1/5 for the layman (?x ?
dom(f) :a(x) = x ?
x/10 or a(x) = x ?
x/5).
Table1 shows an exemplary function for the first sevenmeasure points and the approximations used.distance speed ideal approx.
approx.n value 1/10 1/51 25.3 25 22.5 - 27.5 20.0 - 30.02 28.2 26 23.4 - 28.6 20.8 - 31.23 31.7 27 24.3 - 29.7 21.6 - 32.44 30.5 28 25.2 - 30.8 22.4 - 33.65 32.8 29 26.1 - 31.9 23.2 - 34.86 31.1 30 27.0 - 33.0 24.0 - 36.07 25.8 30 27.0 - 33.0 24.0 - 36.0...............Table 1: Some numerical dataIn addition to the values that are outside of the ap-proximations, the degree of exceeding or going be-low the ideal value should be taken into accountas well.
We do not just want to generate a sen-tence like at kilometer 3 you went too fast if theactual values were outside the approximation hulland much higher than the ideal one, but at kilome-ter 3 you went much too fast.
Therefore, we definea threshold such that every value above that thre-shold will be classified as being much higher than104the ideal value, and all values below that thresholdare classified as being an exiguous deviation fromthat ideal value.
Then the six relevant speaker ac-tions are N-0, N-1, 1/10-0, 1/10-1, 1/5-0 and1/5-1 with 0 and 1 indicating no use of a thresholdand the use of one relevant threshold, respectively.According to section 3, the strategies of L con-cern the interpretation grammar, i.e.
the mappingfrom linguistic forms to propositions (h : F ?
P )and an update of L?s information state that mayinclude (abductive) reasoning.
The abductive in-ferences drawn by the layman differ from thoseof the expert by the profundity of the explana-tion: While the layman is primarily interested inincreasing his fitness, the expert should be inter-ested in a more profound explanation.
Let us as-sume three update strategies: NOINFERENCES, i.e.up(TL, P ) = TL?P , EXHAUSTIVEREASONING,i.e.
up(TL, P ) = (TL?
P ) ?
Cn(TL?
P ), andMUNDANEREASONING, i.e.
reasoning with onlya very limited number of inferences involved.The payoffs for the players may be motivatedas follows.
For S holds: A more detailed con-tent requires more effort in providing that content.Furthermore, realizing the degree of exceeding thevalue requires additional cognitive effort.
Since Spursues to reduce her efforts, the highest payoffwill be associated with the lowest effort.
The moredetailed the content is, the lesser is L?s effort toreason.
However, a text that explains everythingviolates the Gricean maxim of quantity.
There-fore, L should prefer at least mundane reasoning,and we could motivate the listener?s payoffs by thenumber of inferences to be drawn.The utility matrix in Table 2 shows the ac-tion combinations of S and L as layman.
TheNash equilibrium is the strategy (1/5-0, MUN-DANEREASONING); S will generate propositionsthat comprise the numerical data outside of thewidest approximation hull, and without any fur-ther differentiation w.r.t.
the degree of exceedingthe ideal values.
S knows that L?s interpretation ofthe propositions is an abductive proof graph thatrepresents a simple explanation of them.With L as expert the payoffs must be swapped.Since the expert is able to find a more profoundexplanation, he strives for exhaustive reasoning.S , in turn, knows this and will therefore selectthe smaller approximation.
Hence, we get theutility matrix in Table 3 with (1/10-0, EXHAUS-TIVEREASONING) as Nash equilibrium.NOINF.
MUNDANER.
EXH.R.N-0 1,5 1,7 1,1N-1 0,6 0,8 0,21/10-0 3,5 3,7 3,11/10-1 2,6 2,8 2,21/5-0 6,5 6,7 6,11/5-1 5,6 5,8 5,2Table 2: Utility matrix with L as laymanNOINF.
MUNDANER.
EXH.R.N-0 1,5 1,1 1,7N-1 0,6 0,2 0,81/10-0 6,5 6,1 6,71/10-1 5,6 5,2 5,81/5-0 3,5 3,1 3,71/5-1 2,6 2,2 2,8Table 3: Utility matrix with L as expert5 OutlookDue to the programmatic status of this paper, sev-eral issues have been omitted we will deal with inour future work.
The most pressing tasks concernthe action sets of S and L that must be refined,and the payoffs must be based on empirical obser-vations.
However, as sketchy as the given examplemay be, it shows that NLG stands to benefit fromGame Theory.ReferencesMarkus Guhe.
2007.
Incremental Conceptualizationfor Language Production.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Mah-wah, NJ.Jerry Hobbs, Mark Stickel, Douglas Appelt, and PaulMartin.
1993.
Interpretation as Abduction.
Artifi-cial Intelligence, 63, 69-142.Gerhard Ja?ger.
2007.
Evolutionary Game Theory andtypology: a case study.
Language, 83, 74?109.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
2000.
Building NaturalLanguage Generation Systems.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, Cambridge.Yoav Shoham and Kevin Leyton-Brown.
2009.
Mul-tiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-theoretic andLogical Foundations.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.105
