Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technologies for African Languages ?
AfLaT 2009, pages 46?52,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsDevelopment of an Amharic Text-to-Speech SystemUsing Cepstral MethodTadesse AnberbirICT Development Office, AddisAbaba University, Ethiopiatadanberbir@gmail.comTomio TakaraFaculty of Engineering, University ofthe Ryukyus, Okinawa, Japantakara@ie.u-ryukyu.ac.jpAbstractThis paper presents a speech synthesis systemfor Amharic language and describes and howthe important prosodic features of the lan-guage were modeled in the system.
The devel-oped Amharic Text-to-Speech system(AmhTTS) is parametric and rule-based thatemploys a cepstral method.
The system uses asource filter model for speech production anda Log Magnitude Approximation (LMA) filteras the vocal tract filter.
The intelligibility andnaturalness of the system was evaluated byword and sentence listening tests respectivelyand we achieved 98% correct-rates for wordsand an average Mean Opinion Score (MOS) of3.2 (which is categorized as good) for sen-tences listening tests.
The synthesized speechhas high intelligibility and moderate natural-ness.
Comparing with previous similar study,our system produced considerably similarquality speech with a fairly good prosody.
Inparticular our system is mainly suitable forbuilding new languages with little modifica-tion.1 IntroductionText-to-Speech (TTS) synthesis is a processwhich artificially produces synthetic speech forvarious applications such as services over tele-phone, e-document reading, and speaking systemfor handicapped people etc.The two primary technologies for generatingsynthetic speech are concatenative synthesis andformant (Rule-based) synthesis methods.
Con-catenative synthesis produces the most natural-sounding synthesized speech.
However, it re-quires a large amount of linguistic resources andgenerating a various speaking style is a challeng-ing task.
In general the amount of work requiredto build a concatenative system is enormous.
Par-ticularly, for languages with limited linguisticresources, it is more difficult.
On the other hand,formant synthesis method requires small linguis-tic resources and able to generate various speak-ing styles.
It is also suitable for mobile applica-tions and easier for customization.
However, thismethod produced less natural-sounding synthe-sized speech and the complex rules required tomodel the prosody is a big problem.In general, each method has its own strengthsand weaknesses and there is always a tradeoff.Therefore, which approach to use will be deter-mined by the intended applications, the availabil-ity of linguistic resources of a given languageetc.
In our research we used formant (rule-based)synthesis method because we are intending toprepare a general framework for Ethiopian Se-mitic languages and apply it for mobile devicesand web embedded applications.Currently, many speech synthesis systems areavailable mainly for ?major?
languages such asEnglish, Japanese etc.
and successful results areobtained in various application areas.
However,thousands of the world?s ?minor?
languages lacksuch technologies, and researches in the area arequite very few.
Although recently many localiza-tion projects (like the customization of Festvox1)are being undergoing for many languages, it isquite inadequate and the localization process isnot an easy task mainly because of the lack oflinguistic resources and absence of similar worksin the area.
Therefore, there is a strong demandfor the development of a speech synthesizer formany of the African minor languages such asAmharic.Amharic, the official language of Ethiopia, isa Semitic language that has the greatest numberof speakers after Arabic.
According to the 1998census, Amharic has 17.4 million speaker as amother thong language and 5.1 million speakersas a second language.
However, it is one of the1 Festvox is a voice building framework which offers gen-eral tools for building unit selection voices for new lan-guages.46least supported and least researched languages inthe world.
Although, recently, the developmentof different natural language processing (NLP)tools for analyzing Amharic text has begun, it isoften very far comparing with other languages(Alemu et al, 2003).
Particularly, researchesconducted on language technologies like speechsynthesis and the application of such technolo-gies are very limited or unavailable.
To theknowledge of the authors, so far there is only onepublished work (Sebsibe, 2004) in the area ofspeech synthesis for Amharic.
In this study theytried to describe the issues to be considered indeveloping a concatenative speech synthesizerusing Festvox and recommended using syllablesas a basic unit for high quality speech synthesis.In our research we developed a syllabic basedTTS system with prosodic control method whichis the first rule-based system published for Am-haric.
The designed Amharic TTS (AmhTTS) isparametric and rule-based system that employs aCepstral method and uses a Log Magnitude Ap-proximation (LMA) filter.
Unlike the previousstudy, Sebsibe (2004), our study provides a totalsolution on prosodic information generationmainly by modeling the durations.
The system isexpected to have a wide range of applications,for example, in software aids to visually im-paired people, in mobile phones and can also beeasily customized for other Ethiopian languages.2 Amharic Language?s OverviewAmharic (????)
is a Semitic language and it isone of the most widely spoken languages inEthiopia.
It has its own non Latin based syllabicscript called ?Fidel?
or ?Abugida?.
The ortho-graphic representation of the language is organ-ized into orders (derivatives) as shown in Fig.1.Six of them are CV (C is a consonant, V is avowel) combinations while the sixth order is theconsonant itself.
In total there are 32 consonantsand 7 vowels with 7x32= 224 Syllables.
Butsince there are redundant sounds that representthe same sounds, the phonemes are only 28 (seethe Appendix).1st  2nd  3rd  4th  5th  6th  7thC/e/?C/u/?C/i/?C/a/?C/ie/?C?C/o/?Figure 1:  Amharic Syllables structureLike other languages, Amharic also has itsown typical phonological and morphological fea-tures that characterize it.
The following are someof the striking features of Amharic phonologythat gives the language its characteristic soundwhen one hears it spoken: the weak, indetermi-nate stress; the presence of glottalic, palatal, andlabialized consonants; the frequent gemination ofconsonants and central vowels; and the use of anautomatic helping vowel (Bender et al, 1976).Gemination in Amharic is one of the mostdistinctive characteristics of the cadence of thespeech, and also caries a very heavy semanticand syntactic functional weight (Bender and Fu-lass, 1978).
Amharic gemination is either lexicalor morphological.
Gemination as a lexical fea-ture cannot be predicted.
For instance, ??
maybe read as al?
meaning 'he said', or all?
meaning'there is'.
Although this is not a problem for Am-haric speakers, it is a challenging problem inspeech synthesis.
As a morphological featuregemination is more predictable in the verb thanin the noun, Bender and Fulass (1978).
However,this is also a challenging problem in speech syn-thesis because to automatically identify the loca-tion of geminated syllables, it requires analysisand modeling of the complex morphology of thelanguage.
The lack of the orthography of Am-haric to show geminates is the main problem.
Inthis study, we used our own manual geminationmark (?)
insertion techniques (see Section 3.3.1).The sixth order syllables are the other impor-tant features of the language.
Like geminates, thesixth order syllables are also very frequent andplay a key role for proper pronunciation ofspeech.
In our previous study, (Tadesse and Ta-kara, 2006) we found that geminates and sixthorder syllables are the two most important fea-tures that play a key role for proper pronuncia-tion of words.
Therefore, in our study we mainlyconsider these language specific features to de-velop a high quality speech synthesizer for Am-haric language.3 AmhTTS SystemAmharic TTS synthesis system is a parametricand rule based system designed based on thegeneral speech synthesis system.
Fig.2.
showsthe scheme of Amharic speech synthesis system.The design is based on the general speech syn-thesis system (Takara and Kochi, 2000).
The sys-tem has three main components, a text analysissubsystem, prosodic generation module and aspeech synthesis subsystem.
The following threesub-sections discuss the details of each compo-nent.47Figure 2: Amharic Speech Synthesis System3.1 Text AnalysisThe text analysis subsystem extracts the linguis-tic and prosodic information from the input text.The program iterates through the input text andextracts the gemination and other marks, and thesequences of syllables using the syllabificationrule.
The letter-to-sound conversion has simpleone-to-one mapping between orthography andphonetic transcription (see Apendix).
As definedby (Baye, 2008; Dawkins, 1969) and others,Amharic can be considered as a phonetic lan-guage with relatively simple relationship be-tween orthography and phonology.3.2 Speech Analysis and Synthesis systemsFirst, as a speech database, all Amharic syllables(196) were collected and their sounds were pre-pared by recording on digital audio tape (DAT)at a 48 kHz sampling rate and 16-bit value.
Afterthat, they were down-sampled to 10 kHz for ana-lyzing.
All speech units were recorded with nor-mal speaking rate.Then, the speech sounds were analyzed bythe analysis system.
The analysis system adoptsshort-time cepstral analysis with frame length25.6 ms and frame shifting time of 10 ms. Atime-domain Hamming window with a length of25.6 ms is used in analysis.
The cepstrum is de-fined as the inverse Fourier transform of theshort-time logarithm amplitude spectrum (Furui,2001).
Cepstral analysis has the advantage that itcould separate the spectral envelope part and theexcitation part.
The resulting parameters ofspeech unit include the number of frames and,for each frame, voiced/unvoiced (V/UV) deci-sion, pitch period and cepstral coefficients c[m],0 ?
m ?
29.
The speech database contains theseparameters as shown in fig.2.Finally, the speech synthesis subsystem gen-erates speech from pre-stored parameters underthe control of the prosodic rules.
For speech syn-thesis, the general source-filter model is used asa speech production model as shown in fig.3.The synthetic sound is produced using Log Mag-nitude Approximation (LMA) filter (Imai, 1980)as the system filter, for which cepstral coeffi-cients are used to characterize the speech sound.Figure 3: Diagram of Speech Synthesis ModelThe LMA filter presents the vocal tract charac-teristics that are estimated in 30 lower-order que-frency elements.
The LMA filter is a pole-zerofilter that is able to efficiently represent the vocaltract features for all speech sounds.
The LMAfilter is controlled by cepstrum parameters asvocal tract parameters, and it is driven by fun-damental period impulse series for voiced soundsand by white noise for unvoiced sounds.
Thefundamental frequency (F0) of the speech is con-trolled by the impulse series of the fundamentalperiod.
The gain of the filter or the power of syn-thesized speech is set by the 0th order cepstralcoefficient, c [0].3.3 Prosody ModelingFor any language, appropriate modeling of pros-ody is the most important issue for developing ahigh quality speech synthesizer.In Amharic language segments duration is themost important and useful component in prosodycontrol.
It is shown that, unlike English languagein which the rhythm of the speech is mainlycharacterized by stress (loudness), rhythm inAmharic is mainly marked by longer and shortersyllables depending on gemination of conso-nants, and by certain features of phrasing(Bender et al, 1976).
Therefore it is very impor-tant to model the syllables duration in AmhTTSsystem.
In this paper we propose a new segmen-tal duration control methods for synthesizing ahigh quality speech.
Our rule-based TTS systemuses a compact rule-based prosodic generationmethod in three phases:?
modeling geminated consonants durationSpeech databaseFundamentalfrequency (F0)Voiced/UnvoicedCepstralCoefficientTextInputVoiceOutputProsodicGenerationSpeechSynthesisSubsys-temTextAnalysisSubsystem48?
controlling of sixth order syllables dura-tion?
assignment of a global intonation contourProsody is modeled by variations of pitch andrelative duration of speech elements.
Our studydeals only with the basic aspects of prosody suchas syllables duration and phrase intonation.Gemination is modeled as lengthened duration insuch a way geminated syllables are modeled onword level.
Phrase level duration is modeled aswell to improve prosodic quality.
Prosodicphrases are determined in simplified way by us-ing text punctuation.
To synthesize F0 contourFujisaki pitch model that superimpose both wordlevel and phrase level prosody modulations isused (Takara and Jun, 1988).The following sub-sections discuss the pro-sodic control methods employed in our system.3.3.1 Gemination ruleAccurate estimation of segmental duration fordifferent groups of geminate consonants (stops,nasals, liquids, glides, fricatives) will be crucialfor natural sounding of AmhTTS system.
In ourprevious study, Tadesse and Takara (2006), westudied the durational difference between single-tons vs. geminates of contrastive words and de-termined the threshold duration for differentgroups of consonants.
Accordingly the followingrule was implemented based on the thresholddurations we obtained in our previous study.The gemination rule is programmed in the sys-tem and generates geminates from singletons byusing a simple durational control method.
It gen-erates geminates by lengthening the duration ofthe consonant part of the syllables following thegemination mark.
Two types of rules were pre-pared for two groups of consonants, continuant(voiced and unvoiced) and non-continuant (stopsand glottalized) consonants.
If a geminationmark (?)
is followed by syllable with voiced orunvoiced consonant  then, the last three framesof the cepstral parameters (c[0]) of vowel is ad-justed linearly and then 120 ms of frame 1, 2 and3 of second syllable is added.
Then the secondsyllable is connected after frame 4.
Totally 90 msof cepstral parameters is added.
Otherwise, if, agemination mark (?)
is followed by syllable withglottal or non-glottal consonant then, the lastthree frames of the cepstral parameters (c[0]) ofvowel is adjusted linearly and then 100 ms ofsilence is added.
Finally the second syllable isdirectly connected.Since Amharic orthography does not use gemi-nation mark,  in our study we used our owngemination mark and a manual gemination inser-tion mechanism for input texts.
Although somescholars make use of two dots (  ?
which is pro-posed in UNICODE 5.1 version as 135F) over aconsonant to show gemination, so far there is nosoftware which supports this mark.3.3.2 Sixth order syllables ruleAs mentioned earlier the sixth order syllables arevery frequent and play a major role for properpronunciation of words.
The sixth order ortho-graphic syllables, which do not have any vowelunit associated to it in the written form, may as-sociate the helping vowel (epenthetic vowel /ix/,see the Apendix) in its spoken form (Dawkins,1969).
The sixth order syllables are ambiguous;they can stand for either a consonant in isolationor a consonant with the short vowel.
In ourstudy we prepared a simple algorithm to controlthe sixth order syllables duration.
The algorithmto model the sixth order syllables duration usesthe following rules:1.
The sixth order syllables at the beginning ofword are always voweled (see /sxix/ in fig 5).2.
The sixth order syllables at the end of aword are unvoweled (without vowel) but, ifit is geminated, it becomes voweled.3.
The sixth order syllables in the middle ofwords are always unvoweled (see /f/ infig.5).
But, if there is a cluster of three ormore consonants, it is broken up by insertinghelping vowel /ix/.The following figures shows sample words syn-thesized by our system by applying the prosodicrules.
Fig.5 and fig.7 shows the waveform andduration of words synthesized by applying boththe gemination and sixth order syllables rules.Fig.4 and fig.6 shows the waveform of originalwords just for comparison purpose only.
The twosynthesized words are comparative words whichdiffer only by presence or absence of gemination.In the first word /sxixfta/ ???
meaning ?bandit?,the sixth order syllable /f/ is unvoweled (seefig.5).
However, in the second word /sxixffixta/???
meaning ?rash?, the sixth order syllable /f/is voweled and longer /ffix/ (see fig.7) because itis geminated.
In our previous study, Tadesse andTakara (2006), we observed that vowels areneeded for singletons to be pronounced as gemi-nates.49Figure 4: Waveform & duration of original word??
?/sxixfta/, meaning ?bandit?Figure 5: Waveform & duration of synthesizedword ??
?/sxixfta/, meaning ?bandit?Figure 6: Waveform & duration of original word??
?/sxixffixta/, meaning ?rash?Figure 7: Waveform & duration of synthesizedword ??
?/sxixffixta/, meaning ?rash?3.3.3 Syllables connection rulesFor syllables connections, we prepared fourtypes of syllables connection-rules based on thetype of consonants.
The syllable units which arerepresented by cepstrum parameters and stored inthe database are connected based on the types ofconsonants joining with vowels.
The connectionsare implemented either by smoothing or interpo-lating the cepstral coefficients, F0 and amplitudeat the boundary.
Generally, we drive two types ofsyllabic joining patterns.
The first pattern issmoothly continuous linkage where the pitch,amplitude and spectral assimilation occur at theboundary.
This pattern occurs when the bound-ary phonemes of joining syllables are unvoiced.Another joining pattern is interpolation, this pat-tern occurs when one or both of the boundaryphonemes of joining syllables is voiced.
If theboundary phonemes are plosive or glottal stopthen the pre-plosive or glottal stop closure pauseswith 40ms in length is inserted between them.3.3.4 IntonationThe intonation for a sentence is implemented byapplying a simple declination line in the log fre-quency domain adopted from similar study forJapanese TTS system by Takara and Jun (1988).Fig.8 shows the intonation rule.
The time ti is theinitial point of syllable, and the initial value ofF0 (circle mark) is calculated from this value.This is a simple linear line, which intends to ex-periment the very first step rule of intonation ofAmharic.
In this study, we simply analyzed somesample sentences and take the average slope = -0.0011.
But as a future work, the sentence pros-ody should be studied more.0 t1 t2 t3 Time [frame]Logfrequency[Hz]f0f1f2f3fn = f0 * 2-0.0011tnFigure 8: Intonation rule4 Evaluation and DiscussionIn order to evaluate the intelligibility and natu-ralness of our system, we performed two types oflistening tests.
The first listening test was per-formed to evaluate the intelligibility of wordssynthesized by the system and the second listen-ing test was to evaluate the naturalness of syn-thesized sentences.
The listening tests were usedto evaluate the effectiveness of the prosodic ruleemployed in our system.4.1 RecordingsFor both listening tests the recording was done ina soundproof room, with a digital audio tape re-corder (SONY DAT) and SONY ECM-44S Elec-trets Condenser Microphone.
Sampling rate ofDAT was set at 48kHz then from DAT the re-corded data were transferred to a PC via a digitalaudio interface (A/D, D/A) converter.
Finally,the data was converted from stereo to mono;down sampled to 10 kHz and the amplitude wasnormalized using Cool Edit program.
All re-cording was done by male native speaker of thelanguage who is not included in the listeningtests./f//ff         ix//sx        ix/ /t    a//sx     ix/ /t    a//sx        ix//f//t    a//sx        ix/ /ff       ix/ /t    a/504.2 Speech MaterialsThe stimuli for the first listening test were con-sisted of 200 words which were selected fromAmharic-English dictionary.
The selected wordsare commonly and frequently used words in theday-to-day activities adopted from (Yasumotoand Honda, 1978).
Among the 200 words weselected, 80 words (40% of words) contain oneor more geminated syllables and 75% of thewords contain sixth order syllables.
This showsthat how geminates and sixth order syllables arevery frequent.Then, using these words, two types of syn-thesized speech data were prepared: Analy-sis/synthesis sounds and rule-based synthesizedsounds using AmhTTS system.
The originalspeech sounds were also added in the test forcomparison purpose.For the second listening test we used fivesentences which contains words with eithergeminated syllables or sixth order syllables orboth.
The sentences were selected from Amharicgrammar book, Baye (2008) which are used asan example.
We prepared three kinds of speechdata: original sentences, analysis/synthesis sen-tences, and synthesized sentences by our systemby applying prosodic rules.
In total we prepared15 speech sounds.4.3 MethodsBoth listening tests were conducted by fourEthiopian adults who are native speakers of thelanguage (2 female and 2 male).
All listeners are20-35 years old in age, born and raised in thecapital city of Ethiopia.
For both listening testswe prepared listening test programs and a briefintroduction was given before the listening test.In the first listening test, each sound wasplayed once in 4 second interval and the listenerswrite the corresponding Amharic scripts to theword they heard on the given answer sheet.In the second listening test, for each listener,we played all 15 sentences together and ran-domly.
And each subject listens to 15 sentencesand gives their judgment score using the listen-ing test program by giving a measure of qualityas follows: (5 ?
Excellent, 4 - Good, 3 - Fair, 2 -Poor, 1 ?
Bad).
They evaluated the system byconsidering the naturalness aspect.
Each listenerdid the listening test fifteen times and we tookthe last ten results considering the first five testsas training.4.4 Results and discussionAfter collecting all listeners?
response, we calcu-lated the average values and we found the fol-lowing results.In the first listening test, the average correct-rate for original and analysis-synthesis soundswere 100% and that of rule-based synthesizedsounds was 98%.
We found the synthesizedwords to be very intelligible.In the second listening test the average Meanopinion score (MOS) for synthesized sentenceswere 3.2 and that of original and analy-sis/synthesis sentences were 5.0 and 4.7 respec-tively.
The result showed that the prosodic con-trol method employed in our system is effectiveand produced fairly good prosody.
However, thedurational modeling only may not be enough toproperly generate natural sound.
Appropriatesyllable connections rules and proper intonationmodeling are also important.
Therefore studyingtypical intonation contour by modeling wordlevel prosody and improving syllables connec-tion rules by using quality speech units is neces-sary for synthesizing high quality speech.5 Conclusions and future worksWe have presented the development of a syllabicbased AmhTTS system capable of synthesizingintelligible speech with fairly good prosody.
Wehave shown that syllables produce reasonablynatural quality speech and durational modeling isvery crucial for naturalness.
However the systemstill lacks naturalness and needs automatic gemi-nation assignment mechanisms for better dur-ational modeling.Therefore, as a future work, we will mainlyfocus on improving the naturalness of the syn-thesizer.
We are planning to improve the dura-tion model using the data obtained from the an-notated speech corpus, properly model the co-articulation effect of geminates and to study thetypical intonation contour.
We are also planningto integrate a morphological analyzer for auto-matic gemination assignment and sophisticatedgeneration of prosodic parameters.ReferencesAtelach Alemu, Lars Asker and Mesfin Getachew.2003.
Natural Language Processing For Am-haric: Overview And Suggestions for a WayForward, Proc.
10th Conference ?TraitementAutomatique Des Languages Naturalles?, pp.
173-182, Vol.2, Batz-Sur-Mer, France.51Sebsibe H/Mariam, S P Kishore, Alan W Black, RohitKumar, and Rajeev Sangal.
2004.
Unit SelectionVoice for Amharic Using Festvox, 5th ISCASpeech Synthesis Workshop, Pittsburgh.M.L Bender, J.D.Bowen, R.L.
Cooper and C.A.
Fer-guson.
1976.
Language in Ethiopia, London, Ox-ford University Press.M.
Lionel Bender, Hailu Fulass.
1978.
AmharicVerb Morphology: A Generative Approach,Carbondale.Tadesse Anberbir and Tomio Takara.
2006.
AmharicSpeech Synthesis Using Cepstral Method withStress Generation Rule, INTERSPEECH 2006ICSLP, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, pp.
1340-1343.T.
Takara and T. Kochi.
2000.
General speech syn-thesis system for Japanese Ryukyu dialect,Proc.
of the 7th WestPRAC, pp.
173-176.Baye Yimam.
2008.
?????
????
(?AmharicGrammer?
), Addis Ababa.
(in Amaharic).C.H DAWKINS.
1969.
The Fundamentals of Am-haric, Bible Based Books, SIM Publishing, AddisAbaba, Ethiopia, pp.5-7.S.
Furui, Digital Speech Processing, Synthesis,and Recognition, Second Edition, Marcel Dekker,Inc., 2001, pp.
266-270.S.
Imai.
1980.
Log Magnitude Approximation(LMA) filter, Trans.
of IECE Japan, J63-A, 12,PP.
886-893.
(in Japanese).Takara, Tomio and Oshiro, Jun.
1988.
ContinuousSpeech Synthesis by Rule of Ryukyu Dialect,Trans.
IEEE of Japan, Vol.
108-C, No.
10, pp.
773-780.
(in Japanese)B. Yasumoto and M. Honda.
1978.
Birth Of Ja-panses, pp.352-358, Taishukun-Shoten.
(in Japa-nese).AppendixAmharic Phonetic List, IPA Equivalence and itsASCII Transliteration Table.
(Mainly adoptedfrom (Sebsibe, 2004; Baye, 2008)52
