Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 154?157,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPIngesting the Auslan Corpus into the DADA Annotation StoreSteve CassidyCentre for Language Technology,Macquarie University, Sydney, AustraliaSteve.Cassidy@mq.edu.auTrevor JohnstonDepartment of LinguisticsMacquarie University, Sydney, AustraliaTrevor.Johnston@mq.edu.auAbstractThe DADA system is being developed tosupport collaborative access to and anno-tation of language resources over the web.DADA implements an abstract model ofannotation suitable for storing many kindsof data from a wide range of language re-sources.
This paper describes the processof ingesting data from a corpus of Aus-tralian Sign Language (Auslan) into theDADA system.
We describe the format ofthe RDF data used by DADA and the is-sues raised in converting the ELAN anno-tations from the corpus.1 BackgroundThe DADA system is being developed to supportcollaborative access to and annotation of languageresources over the web.
DADA provides a webaccessible annotation store that delivers both a hu-man browsable version of a corpus and a machineaccessible API for reading and writing annota-tions.
DADA is able to ingest data from a numberof different annotation formats and the data modelit supports is intended to be a general model ofannotation data.
This paper reports on our effortsto ingest data from the Australian Sign Language(Auslan) corpus which has been annotated withthe ELAN tool1.
The primary goal of this projectis to provide a read-only web-accessible versionof the corpus but a longer term goal is to allow re-search groups to collaborate in extending the an-notation.DADA follows the principle of linked data(Bizer et al, 2008), every object (e.g.
annotation)within the store is associated with a URL and ac-cessing that URL generates a description of theobject which includes links to the URLs of relatedobjects.
So, accessing the URL of an annotationmight return a web page describing that annotationlinked to its parent or the annotation set or corpusthat it is part of.
Linked data is an emerging designpattern in semantic web research which is being1http://www.lat-mpi.eu/tools/elan/used to enable data discovery and general purposebrowsing tools.
For our purposes, the idea that ev-ery component of a corpus has a web-accessibleURL is very powerful; it means that individual an-notations could be cited in publications and opensup a whole new range of possibilities in commu-nicating results and analysis.There have been a number of earlier projectsthat aimed to develop web accessible versions ofdata annotated in ELAN.
EOPAS (Thieberger andSchroeter, 2006) aimed to provide a means of ex-ploring ethnographic data on the web.
Variouskinds of annotation data, including ELAN, couldbe ingested into the EOPAS XML format usingstylesheets.
The flexibility of an XML databasewas used to allow the web views of data to be gen-erated via calls to XSLT and XQuery scripts.
Be-cause of the nature of the data being displayed,EOPAS developed views particularly suited tointerlinear text although the same infrastructurecould be used to generate other kind of display.Like EOPAS, DADA makes use of an indus-try standard data store, however we choose RDFinstead of XML because of the very close fit be-tween the RDF data model (a directed graph) andthe data model that has been shown to be neededto represent annotation data (Bird and Liberman,2001).The choice of RDF also allows us to leverageexisting work on annotation on the web.
The An-notea project at the W3C and the later Vannoteaproject (R.Schroeter et al, 2003) define an RDFformat for storing annotations on media on theweb.
The models developed for DADA owe a lotto these earlier systems but build on them to pro-vide an appropriate data model for linguistic an-notation.1.1 The Auslan CorpusThe Auslan corpus is a digital video archive ofAustralian Sign Language (Auslan) (Johnston andSchembri, 2006).
The archive is the product ofan Endangered Languages Documentation Projectfunded through the Hans Rausing EndangeredLanguages Documentation Program (ELDP) at the154School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS),University of London (grant #MDP0088 awardedto Trevor Johnston).
The corpus brings togetherinto one digital archive a representative sam-ple of Auslan in video recordings to which areadded metadata files and annotation files createdin ELAN.
It is consists of two sub-corpora: datacollected through the ELDP and data collectedas part of the Sociolinguistic Variation in AuslanProject (SVIAP) conducted by Adam Schembriand Trevor Johnston (ARC #LP0346973).
Bothdatasets are based on language recording sessionsconducted with deaf native or early learner/near-native users of Auslan.Many tiers are needed in an ELAN file to an-notate a text in a signed language because signlanguages can have several simultaneous levels oflinguistically significant behavior.
For example,each hand may utter a separate manual sign atthe same time, or grammatically important bodymovements and facial expressions (which are notunlike prosody) may co-occur with the productionof individual manual signs.
All this needs to beidentified and time aligned.2 Mapping ELAN to RDFRDF, the Resource Description Framework, isthe core language of the semantic web used tomake assertions about resources, describing themin terms of properties and relations to other re-sources.
DADA stores annotations as RDF ina dedicated database called a triple store anduses semantic web technologies to manipulate andpresent data.
To represent annotations, DADA de-fines a core ontology that maps to the data struc-tures inherent in annotation data.
The ontology isdesigned to be able to represent many kinds of an-notation data and as such owes much to similarlingua franca efforts such as Annotation Graphs(Bird and Liberman, 2001) and the Linguistic An-notation Format (Ide and Suderman, 2007).To ingest the annotations from the Auslan Cor-pus into DADA requires transcoding of ELANXML annotation files into the RDF format.
Thissection provides an overview of the DADA RDFontology and then discusses the issues raised bymapping ELAN data.The core object types within the DADA ontol-ogy are: the corpus, a collection of annotationsets; the annotation set, a collection of annota-tions on one or more media files denoting a sin-gle event or stimulus; the annotation, the basicunit of annotation associated with a region withinthe source media and the anchor, an abstractionof the idea of a location within a source mediafile.
Each of these written in this paper as, forexample, dada:Annotation but this is short-hand for a URL (http://purl.org/dada/schema/0.1#Annotation) which provides aunique name for the property.
Each of these ob-ject types can have arbitrary properties and rela-tions defined from the DADA or other ontologies.DADA properties define the basic structure of an-notations; an example is given in Figure 1.
In thefigure the lines between nodes define the namedrelations; for example, the offset times of the an-chors are defined by relations denoting the unitsof measurement (time:seconds).
The data as-sociated with the annotation is encoded by one ormore relations (e.g.
auslan:RH ID gloss); inthis way, each annotation is associated with a fea-ture structure that can encode multiple propertiesof the annotation.dada:Annotationa123rdf:type S123Milkdada:AnnotationSetrdf:typedada:partofanch12 anch13dada:startdada:end12.3time:seconds12.5time:secondscatauslan:RH_ID_glossFigure 1: An example annotation structure inRDF.The mapping between the ELAN EAF formatused by the Auslan Corpus and the DADA RDFformat is relatively straightforward.
EAF storesannotations for a single media file (or group ofrelated media) in an XML format which can betransformed into the RDF/XML format via anXSLT stylesheet.
ELAN annotations exist on a setof tiers which have associated type information;for example, Auslan uses the RH ID Gloss tier torepresent the sign being made by the right hand.The type of annotation on a tier is defined bythe associated linguistic type which gives a namefor the type and defines it as one of five stereo-155types that describe how the annotation divides thetimeline and relates to other annotations.
Thereare a number of stereotypes defined by ELAN butthe Auslan corpus only makes use of two: a sim-ple time aligned type and a symbolic associationtype.
The simple time aligned tiers form the baseof the annotation and denote the start and end ofsigns and other events in the video stream.
Sym-bolic association tiers provide additional informa-tion about these base level annotations; each an-notation on one of these tiers is associated with abase level annotation which defines its start andend points.
This is modeled in RDF by addi-tional properties denoting the associated annota-tions.
For example, Auslan defines the RH IDGloss tier as a base segmentation of the videotimeline and has associated tiers RH gram cls andRH loc among others.
Instead of building separateannotations for each of these, they are modeled inRDF as three properties of a single annotation asillustrated in Figure 2.da:Anooti1 23rifypnoeSnMlkcohs.m5luMauslan:RH-locauslan:RH-gram_clsauslan:RH_ID_glossFigure 2: Conversion of associated tiers in ELANto RDF propertiesELAN does support other types of inter-tier re-lationships, in particular one tier can be a symbolicsubdivision of its parent.
In this case, additionalannotations must be made for each tier and theRDF model becomes a little more complex.
Thisis not discussed further here as it is not requiredfor modeling annotations in the Auslan corpus.Since the RDF representation of annotations re-quires us to use formal relation names for prop-erties corresponding to tiers, we are required todefine these names in an ontology specific to thestyle of annotation being used in the corpus.
WhileELAN does not provide a mechanism to define aschema ?
definitions of a set of tiers ?
for a cor-pus, most corpora will use the same tiers in everyfile.
As a side effect of importing a set of ELANfiles into the DADA RDF format we generate anRDF schema that defines the linguistic types be-ing used.
These types form a point of reference forthe corpus and can form a useful part of the doc-umentation of the annotation system being used.In the longer term, the availability of such pub-lic documented linguistic types might lead to moreeffective sharing of annotation types between cor-pora.
While these are stored as RDF documents,it is easy to generate template ELAN annotationfiles or indeed templates for other annotation toolsfrom the same data.While the current definitions of linguistic typesare generated entirely from the ELAN source file,there is scope to link these to external ontologiesbeing developed for linguistic analysis.
Relatedly,ELAN supports linking to external controlled vo-cabularies (Sloetjes and Wittenburg, 2008) suchas the ISO Data Category Registry (ISO 12620)which allows sharing of terms (such as Verb,Noun) that might be used as annotation labels.3 Publishing on the WebOnce ingested into the RDF store, the ELAN an-notations can be manipulated by the DADA sys-tem using standard interfaces such as the SPARQLquery language.
The primary interface to DADAis via the web, either through a standard webbrowser or via the well defined HTTP based in-terface for application programs.
This interfacepresents machine-readable versions of the anno-tation data in well known formats; for example,returning an ELAN or Transcriber XML format-ted version of a set of annotations or even a lowerlevel XML representation.
The application wouldnot generally see the annotations in raw RDF formalthough such an interface can be supported ifneeded.The primary view of the annotation data on theweb is via HTML pages generated by the serverthat can contain any data derived from the anno-tation store.
We have developed a set of genericdisplays for each kind of object (corpus, annota-tion set, etc) that are generated in response to a re-quest for the appropriate URI from a web browser.These display all of the relevant data for the objectand could be customised to provide an appropriateview of different kinds of data.The web browser is not the only kind of client156that can retrieve data from the DADA server overthe web.
DADA makes use of HTTP content ne-gotiation between the client and the server to en-able a client to request one of a number of alter-nate forms of data.
For example, the server cangenerate an ELAN format XML file which closelymirrors the original data ingested into the system.Since the output is generated via templates, otherformats could also be generated to feed into al-ternate tools.
In addition to generating existingXML formats it is also useful to generate data ina form that is easily consumed by custom applica-tions.
JSON (Javascript Object Notation2) is a dataformat that is frequently used to transport data inmodern web applications and is easily parsed bylibraries in many target languages.
The DADAJSON interface will deliver descriptions of anykind of object in the data store in a way that makesit easy to implement clients that present interactivedisplays of the data.4 A Javascript ClientAs a demonstration of the web based API allow-ing remote clients to read annotation data from theserver, we have implemented a Javascript basedbrowser for annotation data that is able to showdata aligned with the source video data.
TheJavascript client can be hosted on a website un-related to the DADA server since it gains access todata purely via HTTP requests for JSON format-ted data.The client provides a web interface that is en-tirely dynamic, allowing the user to choose froma list of corpora hosted on the server, then choosean annotation set and finally select a type of anno-tation to display.
The client also queries the serverfor details of the media files associated with theannotation set and embeds the web accessible FLVformatted video in the page.
The user is able to in-teract with the page and navigate through the videovia links from the annotation.5 SummaryThe DADA system aims to provide general pur-pose infrastructure for collaborative annotation oflanguage resources.
Built on core semantic webtechnologies it provides a server based solutionthat is able to ingest annotation data from a num-ber of sources and deliver them both to humanbrowsers and to client applications.
In the first2http://www.json.org/Figure 3: A screenshot from the Javascript clientphase of development the emphasis is on deliver-ing views of existing corpora on the web.A demonstration version of the DADA server ishosted at http://dada.ics.mq.edu.au/and contains a link to the Auslan data describedhere.
More information on the Auslan corpus canbe found at http://www.auslan.org.au/.ReferencesS.
Bird and M. Liberman.
2001.
A Formal Framework forLinguistics Annotation.
Speech Communication.Christian Bizer, Tom Heath, Kingsley Idehen, and TimBerners-Lee.
2008.
Linked data on the web (ldow2008).In WWW ?08: Proceeding of the 17th international con-ference on World Wide Web, pages 1265?1266, New York,NY, USA.
ACM.N.
Ide and K. Suderman.
2007.
GrAF: A Graph-based For-mat for Linguistic Annotations.
In Proceedings of theLinguistic Annotation Workshop, held in conjunction withACL 2007, Prague.
http://www.cs.vassar.edu/?ide/papers/LAW.pdf.T.
Johnston and A. Schembri.
2006.
Issues in the creationof a digital archive of a signed language.
In L. Barwickand N. Thieberger, editors, Sustainable data from digitalfieldwork: Proceedings of the conference held at the Uni-versity of Sydney, pages 7?16, Sydney, December.
SydneyUniversity Press.R.Schroeter, J.Hunter, and D.Kosovic.
2003.
Vannotea ACollaborative Video Indexing, Annotation and DiscussionSystem for Broadband Networks.
In Proceedings of theKnowledge Markup and Semantic Annotation Workshop,K-CAP, Sanibel, Florida, Oct.Han Sloetjes and Peter Wittenburg.
2008.
Annotation bycategory: Elan and iso dcr.
In European Language Re-sources Association (ELRA), editor, Proceedings of theSixth International Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC?08), Marrakech, Morocco, may.Nicholas Thieberger and Ronald Schroeter.
2006.
EOPAS,the EthnoER online representation of interlinear text.
InLinda Barwick and Nicholas Thieberger, editors, Sustain-able Data from Digital Fieldwork, pages 99?124, Univer-sity of Sydney, December.157
