Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 48?51,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPAnnotation of Events and Temporal Expressions in French TextsAndre?
BittarUniversite?
Paris Diderot ?
ALPAGE30 rue du Cha?teau des Rentiers75013 ParisFranceandre.bittar@linguist.jussieu.frAbstractWe present two modules for the recogni-tion and annotation of temporal expres-sions and events in French texts accord-ing to the TimeML specification language.The Temporal Expression Tagger we havedeveloped is based on a large coveragecascade of finite state transducers and ourEvent Tagger on a set of simple heuris-tics applied over local context in a chunkedtext.
We present results of a preliminaryevaluation and compare them with thoseobtained by a similar system.1 IntroductionTimeML (Pustejovsky et al, 2003) is a specifica-tion language for the annotation and normaliza-tion of temporal information in natural languagetexts.
The annotation scheme allows for the anno-tation of events (<EVENT>), the tagging of temporalexpressions and the normalization of their values(<TIMEX3>), as well as the annotation of tempo-ral, aspectual and subordinating relations whichmay exist among them (<TLINK>, <ALINK> and<SLINK>, respectively).
The linguistic markers ofthese relations can also be marked up (<SIGNAL>).A set of resources, including automatic and man-ual annotation tools and several reference corporahave been developed around the TimeML lan-guage.
Evita (Saur??
et al, 2005) is an applica-tion for automatically recognizing and annotatingevents in texts, based primarily on symbolic meth-ods and linguistic data (input is a chunked text),although with some integration of statistical data.Its creators report precision of 74.03% and recallof 87.31% for an overall F-score of 80.12% forthe task of event identification.
GUTime (Maniand Wilson, 2000) annotates temporal expressionsaccording to the TimeML schema and normalizestheir values.
The system achieves F-scores of 85%and 82% for identification and normalization oftemporal expressions, respectively.
Further infor-mation is available on the TimeML project web-site1.2 A System for TimeML Annotation inFrench(Parent et al, 2008) provide the description andevaluation of a system for the TimeML annota-tion of events and temporal expressions in Frenchtexts.
The processing of temporal expressions iscarried out on a text having undergone a part-of-speech tagging, morphological analysis and shal-low syntactic analysis.
The system functions byapplication of a cascade of 90 rules applied over20 levels.
Contrary to the Evita system developedfor English, the event detection module relies on afull dependency parse as input for the event recog-nition task.
The authors claim an advantage overchunker-based approaches with respect to the an-notation of markable adjectives due to the fact thatthe dependency relation between copula verb andpredicative adjective is available.
The authors pro-vide evaluation results according to grammaticalcategory over a development corpus, made up of35 biographical texts and 22 sports articles, and anevaluation (?unseen?)
corpus, consisting of an un-specified number of news articles from the websiteof the E?cole Polytechnique de Montre?al.
The eval-uation results, by grammatical category and globalfigures, are given in Table 1.Development corpus Evaluation corpusCat Prec Rec F-sc Prec Rec F-scNoun 61.5 40.0 48.4 54.7 53.7 54.2Verb 94.1 97.3 95.7 65.6 90.9 76.2Adj 66.7 77.8 71.8 N/A N/A N/AGlobal 86.8 80.6 83.5 62.5 77.7 69.3Table 1: Evaluation results according to corporaThe system performs best on the annotation of1http://www.timeml.org48event verbs and encounters the most difficultiesin the annotation of event nominals.
Adjectivesare relatively well processed over the developmentcorpus, but no adjectives were annotated by thehuman annotator in the evaluation corpus, so noresults were calculated.
As for the annotation oftemporal expressions, precision is 83% and recall79%, for an F-score of 81% over an evaluation cor-pus containing 544 human-annotated temporal ex-pressions and an F-score of 50% for the normal-ization of values.
These figures are comparable tothose cited for GUTime for English.3 Annotation ModulesIn this section, we describe an annotation system,similar to that of (Parent et al, 2008) describedabove, although based on a rich cascade of finitestate transducers and a shallow syntactic analysis,as opposed to a full dependency parse.
The sys-tem is made up principally of two modules, thefirst tagging temporal expressions (section 3.1),the second identifying and annotating event ex-pressions (section 3.2).3.1 Temporal Expression TaggerThis module carries out the tagging and nor-malization of temporal expressions.
The mod-ule consists of a large-coverage set of finistestate transducers developed with the Unitex2 cor-pus processor.
The transducers in this large-coverage grammar, applied to raw text, recognizepatterns of dates, times, duration and frequencyand tag expressions with the appropriately typed<TIMEX3>.
A transducer matching expressions notto be marked up was also created.
This trans-ducer tags with the label <GARBAGE> expressionssuch as phone numbers, which could otherwisematch numerical dates.
The ambiguous word e?te?
(been/summer), when preceded by an adverb orthe auxiliary verb avoir is tagged as <GARBAGE>,as it has its verb rather than noun reading in thiscontext.
Other expressions tagged as <GARBAGE>include the common expression les 35 heures (theFrench 35 hour week) and names of streets con-taining a date, such as la place du 13 Mai, etc.The normalization script, written in Perl, calcu-lates the standard values of temporal expressions,including underspecified deictic expressions, and2Unitex is a graphical corpus processing program, avail-able for download under GNU General Public Licence athttp://www-igm.univ-mlv.fr/?
unitex/removes annotations on items marked <GARBAGE>.The script consists of a set of substitution func-tions for each type of temporal expression taggedby the transducers.
Each function converts thecontent of the expression into a TimeML stan-dard value and inserts it in the value attributeof each <TIMEX3> tag.
This module is availablefor download at http://www.linguist.univ-paris-diderot.fr/?
abittar.
This approach differs from thatof (Parent et al, 2008) in that it relies almost en-tirely on lexical processing.An evaluation was carried out on a subset of thecorpus used to evaluate the similar module de-scribed in section 2.
Our corpus consists of the 45news articles from the Agence France Press usedin the training and test sets described by (Parentet al, 2008).
Figures for the evaluation are givenin Table 2.
The column labeled ?Loose?
repre-sents the number of matches which cover an in-complete span of the expression, for example unmois (one month) instead of un mois et demi (amonth and a half ).
The column ?Strict?
is for ex-act matches.
The ?Value?
column represents thecorrectly normalized values for the temporal ex-pressions detected, calculated over strict matches.Human Found Loose Strict ValueNumber 592 575 508 484 317Precision - - 85.8 84.2 55.0Recall - - 88.4 81.8 44.9F-score - - 87.1 83.0 49.4Table 2: Evaluation results for the Temporal Ex-pression TaggerThese figures are much in line with those ofthe system described in (Parent et al, 2008).Performance is slightly lower on loose matches(F-score 87.1 versus 91.0), but we achieve betterresults on strict matches (F-score 83.0 versus81.0).
This could be explained by the fact that wedid not develop our grammar on the same typeof source text, but shows that the grammar hasa good coverage of the variants of each type ofexpression.Sources of noise include age values tagged asdurations, e.g.
M. Dupont, 58 ans (Mr. Dupont, 58years old) (11 errors), and numerical values takento be years, e.g.
l?aste?ro?
?de 2001 UU92 (Asteroid2001 UU92) (8 errors).
Silence occurs mostlyon coordinated date expressions or sequences,e.g.
les 4, 5 et 6 fe?vrier (the 4th, 5th and 6thof February) (11 errors) or expressions taking a49?vague?
normalized value, e.g.
dans le passe?
(inthe past) (15 errors).Results for the normalization of values for tem-poral expressions are practically identical to theother system for French.
The majority of errorsproduced by our system (97 out of 167) are dueto the fact that our normalization script does notyet fully deal with underspecified weekday ex-pressions, such as jeudi soir (Thursday evening).In the hand-annotated corpus these expressionsare fully resolved, with year, month and dayvalues specified, e.g.
2002-01-15TEV, whereaswe provide a correct, but not completely resolvedvalue, which specifies the day of the week, e.g.2002-WXX-4TEV.
Excluding this difference inprocessing boosts precision to 73.6 and recallto 60.1 (F-score 66.85) for the normalizationof values.
We are currently working on fullynormalizing these values.3.2 Event TaggerThis module tags event expressions with the<EVENT> tag and classifies the events accordingto the ontology defined for TimeML.
It also de-tects negative polarity contexts, as well as any as-pectual or modal properties of certain verbal con-structions.
Input is a text having undergone part-of-speech tagging, an inflectional morphologicalanalysis and shallow syntactic analysis, carriedout by Macaon, a modular processing pipeline forFrench3.
The Event tagger consists of several lev-els of processing - a layer of lexical processing, ba-sically a lexical lookup for nouns and verb classes,and a layer of contextual processing consistingin the application of heuristics for detecting andeliminating event candidates and classifying them.This module relies on certain lexical resources.For the detection of event nominals, a lexicon con-taining nouns with at least one event interpretationis used.
Many of the entries in this lexicon are am-biguous as they may also have a non-event inter-pretation.
For example, repas (meal) has an objectinterpretation as well as an event reading.
Thishighlights the need for disambiguation of nomi-nals.
The noun lexicon is based on the VerbAc-tion lexicon (Hathout et al, 2002) which provided9 200 unique deverbal noun lemmas.
We fur-ther enriched the lexicon through semi-automated3Macaon is freely available for download athttp://pageperso.lif.univ-mrs.fr/?
alexis.nasr/macaon/.search engine queries, such as X a eu lieu (X tookplace) and lors du/de la/des X (during the X),where X is likely to be an event nominal.
An ini-tial application of this method yielded 769 uniquenoun lemmas which were not in VerbAction -mostly rare or non-deverbal nouns, such as antico-agulothe?rapie (anticoagulation therapy) and an-niversaire (birthday).
The noun lexicon is of com-parable size to that used in Evita.We created by hand a verb lexicon which is used toperform classification of verbal events.
It contains200 lemmas for verbs in 6 of the 7 TimeML eventclasses4.
Verbs were initially added to the lexi-con by translating those proposed in the TimeMLclassifcation for English.
The list of verbs was en-riched by querying the dictionary of synonyms atthe Universite?
de Caen5.
The lexicon is small forthe time being and will need to be increased to en-sure better coverage for classification.
Like thenoun lexicon, the lexicon of verbs contains am-biguities as certain verbs may belong to differentclasses or may not have an event reading in cer-tain contexts.
For example, the verb expliquer (toexplain) belongs to the class REPORTING when itintroduces a complementizer phrase in que (that)headed by an event (Max a explique?
qu?il avaitcommis une erreur - Maca explained that he hadmade a mistake).
This is the class attributed bythe lexicon.
However, when it has a human sub-ject and an event in object position (Le manager aexplique?
le renouvellemetn de l?e?quipe - the man-ager explained the renewal of the team), it must beannotated with the class I ACTION.
Finally, if thisverb has events in both subject and object position(Le re?chauffement climatique explique la fonte descalottes glacie`res - global warming explains themelting of the ice caps), it is to be annotated withthe class CAUSE.
The system is thus confrontedwith the non-trivial problem of word sense disam-biguation to identify the correct readings of nounsand verbs in the text.
Initially, we tackle this prob-lem for verbs with a number of heuristics, appliedto local chunk context, for each of the TimeMLverb classes in the lexicon.
A total of 16 heuristicsare used for choosing candidates for markup withthe <EVENT> tag and 30 heuristics for classifyingthe events and determining values for the aspect,modality and polarity attributes.
For example,in the case of the verb expliquer given above, the4As the class OCCURRENCE is the default class, it has noentries in the lexicon5http://www.crisco.unicaen.fr/cgi-bin/cherches.cgi50heuristics include a search for the complementizerque in the chunk after the verb and a search foran event nominal chunk directly to the left of theverb chunk (approximation of subject position).Further heuristics are used to eliminate verbs andnouns which do not have an event reading.
For ex-ample, event nominal chunks which do not havea determiner, such as in prisonier de guerre (pris-oner of war), are not considered as candidates asthey do not denote event instances, but rather eventtypes, and cannot be attributed a specific temporallocalisation.
A set of heuristics is used to detectpredicative adjectives, like in Jean e?tait malade(Jean was sick), which are potential candidates formarkup with the <EVENT> tag.
For example, if thepreceding verb is a copula, the adjective is flaggedas a markable.To evaluate our event tagger we used a corpus of30 hand-annotated news articles from the newspa-per Le Monde.
The corpus was split into a devel-opment set of 20 documents (11 224 tokens, 1 187EVENT tags) and a test set of 10 documents (5 916tokens, 583 EVENT tags).
Overall, the corpus con-tains 1 205 verbal, 471 nominal, 62 adjectival and18 prepositional phrase EVENT tags.Development corpus Evaluation corpusCategory Prec Rec F-sc Prec Rec F-scNoun 50.2 94.5 72.4 54.0 95.1 74.5Verb 87.7 92.3 90.0 86.5 91.1 88.8Adjective 60.0 72.4 66.2 46.0 82.1 64.1Table 3: Evaluation results for the Event TaggerThe results shown in Table 3 are fairly homoge-nous over both the development and test sets.
Thedetection of event verbs performs slightly lowerthan that of the other system for French, althoughthe evaluations were carried out on different cor-pora.
For nominals, our system makes a vast im-provement on the performance of the other sys-tem described in this paper (an F-score of 74.5versus 54.2 over the respective test sets).
Thelarge-coverage lexicon of event nominals allowsfor a good recall, although precision remains lowas more disambiguation is required to filter outnominals with non-event readings.
Performanceon adjectival events is lower than the other system,although not as bad as might have been expected.This is likely due to the difference in depth of syn-tactic analysis available to each system.4 ConclusionWe have presented a comparative evaluation oftwo systems for the TimeML annotation of eventsand temporal expressions in French texts.
Resultsshow that a lexical approach to annotating tempo-ral expressions performs generally just as well asan approach based on a shallow syntactic analy-sis.
For event detection, the benefits of a full de-pendency parse are apparent, especially for the de-tection of markable adjectives, although compara-ble performance can be obtained with a chunkedtext as input.
The benefits of a large-coverage lex-icon for identifying event nominals are evident,although without effective disambiguation tech-niques precision remains very low.
This is onepoint which requires particular attention and moreelaborate guidelines for the annotation of eventnominals would be of great value.
Figures fromthe evaluation give a rough indication of perfor-mance across systems, however, a validated refer-ence corpus for French is yet to be developed in or-der to give more meaningful comparisons.
Theseare issues we are currently addressing.ReferencesNabil Hathout, Fiammetta Namer, and Georgette Dal.2002.
An Experimental Constructional Database:The MorTAL Project.
In Paul Boucher, editor,Many Morphologies, pages 178?209.
Cascadilla,Somerville, Mass., USA.Inderjeet Mani and George Wilson.
2000.
Processingof news.
In Proceedings of the 38th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 69?76, Hong Kong, October.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Gabriel Parent, Michel Gagnon, and Philippe Muller.2008.
Annotation d?expressions temporelles etd?e?ve?nements en franc?ais.
In Actes de TALN 2008,Avignon, France, June.James Pustejovsky, Jose?
Casta no, Robert Ingria, RoserSaur?
?, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, and Gra-ham Katz.
2003.
TimeML: Robust Specification ofEvent and Temporal Expressions in Text.
In Pro-ceedings of IWCS-5, Fifth International Workshopon Computational Semantics.Roser Saur?
?, Robert Knippen, Marc Verhagen, andJames Pustejovsky.
2005.
Evita: A Robust EventRecognizer for QA Systems.
In Proceedings ofHLT/EMNLP 2005, pages 700?707.51
