Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2009: the 10th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group in Discourse and Dialogue, pages 262?271,Queen Mary University of London, September 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsSplit Utterances in Dialogue: a Corpus StudyMatthew Purver, Christine Howes,and Patrick G. T. HealeyDepartment of Computer ScienceQueen Mary University of LondonMile End Road, London E1 4NS, UK{mpurver,chrizba,ph}@dcs.qmul.ac.ukEleni GregoromichelakiDepartment of PhilosophyKing?s College LondonStrand, London WC2R 2LS, UKeleni.gregor@kcl.ac.ukAbstractThis paper presents a preliminary Englishcorpus study of split utterances (SUs), sin-gle utterances split between two or moredialogue turns or speakers.
It has beensuggested that SUs are a key phenomenonof dialogue, which this study confirms: al-most 20% of utterances were found to fitthis general definition, with nearly 3% be-ing the between-speaker case most oftenstudied.
Other claims/assumptions in theliterature about SUs?
form and distribu-tion are investigated, with preliminary re-sults showing: splits can occur within syn-tactic constituents, apparently at any pointin the string; it is unusual for the sepa-rate parts to be complete units in their ownright; explicit repair of the antecedent doesnot occur very often.
The theoretical con-sequences of these results for claims inthe literature are pointed out.
The prac-tical implications for dialogue systems arementioned too.1 IntroductionSplit utterances (SUs) ?
single utterances split be-tween two or more dialogue turns/speakers ?
havebeen claimed to occur regularly in dialogue, espe-cially according to the observations reported in theConversational Analysis (CA) literature, which isbased on the analysis of naturally occurring di-alogues.
SUs are of interest to dialogue theo-rists as they are a clear sign of how turns coherewith each other at all levels ?
syntactic, seman-tic and pragmatic.
They also indicate the radi-cal context-dependency of conversational contri-butions.
Turns can, in general, be highly ellip-tical and nevertheless not disrupt the flow of thedialogue.
SUs are the most dramatic illustrationof this: contributions spread across turns/speakersrely crucially on the dynamics of the unfoldingcontext, linguistic and extra-linguistic, in order toguarantee successful processing and production.Utterances that are split across speakers alsopresent a canonical example of participant coor-dination in dialogue.
The ability of one partic-ipant to continue another interlocutor?s utterancecoherently, both at the syntactic and the seman-tic level, suggests that both speaker and hearer arehighly coordinated in terms of processing and pro-duction.
The initial speaker must be able to switchto the role of hearer, processing and integrating thecontinuation of their utterance, whereas the ini-tial hearer must be closely monitoring the gram-mar and content of what they are being offeredso that they can take over and continue in a waythat respects the constraints set up by the first partof the utterance.
In fact there is (anecdotal) ev-idence that such constraints are fully respectedacross speaker and hearer in such utterances (seee.g.
Gregoromichelaki et al (2009)).
A large pro-portion of the CA literature on SUs tries to iden-tify the conditions under which SUs usually oc-cur (see section 2).
However, this emphasis seemsto miss the important generalisation, confirmedby the present study, that, syntactically, a speakerswitch may be able to occur anywhere in a string.From a theoretical point of view, the implica-tions of the above are that, if such observationshave an empirical foundation, the grammar em-ployed by the interlocutors must be able to licenseand the semantics interpret chunks much smallerthan the usual sentence/proposition units.
More-over, these observations have implications for thenature of the grammar itself: dynamic, incremen-tal formalisms seem more amenable to the mod-262elling of this phenomenon as the switch of roleswhile syntactic/semantic dependencies are pend-ing can be taken as evidence for direct involve-ment of the grammar in the successful process-ing/production of such utterances.
Indeed, Poesioand Rieser (to appear) claim that ?
[c]ollaborativecompletions .
.
.
are among the strongest evidenceyet for the argument that dialogue requires coor-dination even at the sub-sentential level?
(italicsoriginal).From a psycholinguistic point of view, the phe-nomenon of SUs is compatible with mechanis-tic approaches as exemplified by the InteractiveAlignment model of Pickering and Garrod (2004)where it is claimed that it should be as easy tocomplete someone else?s sentence as one?s own(Pickering and Garrod, 2004, p186).
Accordingto this model, speaker and listener ought to be in-terchangeable at any point.
This is also the stancetaken by the grammatical framework of DynamicSyntax (DS) (Kempson et al, 2001; Cann et al,2005).
In DS, parsing and production are takento employ the same mechanisms, leading to a pre-diction that split utterances ought to be strikinglynatural (Purver et al, 2006).
However, from apragmatic point of view, utterance continuationby another speaker might involve some kind ofguessing1 or preempting the other interlocutor?sintended content.
It has therefore been claimedthat a full account of this phenomenon requiresa complete model of pragmatics that can handleintention recognition and formation.
Indeed, Poe-sio and Rieser (to appear) claim that ?the studyof sentence completions .
.
.
may be used to com-pare competing claims about coordination ?
i.e.whether it is best explained with an intentionalmodel like Clark (1996)?s .
.
.
or with a modelbased on simpler alignment models like Pickeringand Garrod (2004)?s.?
They conclude that a modelwhich includes modelling of intentions better cap-tures the data.For computational models of dialogue, how-ever, SUs pose a challenge.
While Poesio andRieser (to appear) and Purver et al (2006) pro-vide general foundational models for various partsof the phenomenon, there are many questions thatremain if we are to begin automatic processing.A computational dialogue system must be ableto identify SUs, match up their two (or more)1Note that this says nothing about whether such a contin-uation is the same as the initial speaker?s intended continua-tion.parts (which may not necessarily be adjacent), in-tegrate them into some suitable syntactic and/orsemantic representation, and determine the over-all pragmatic contribution to the dialogue context.SUs also have implications for the organisation ofturn-taking in such models (see e.g.
Sacks et al(1974)), as regards what conditions (if any) allowor prevent successful turn transfer.
Additionally,from a socio-linguistic point of view, turn-takingoperates (according to Schegloff (1995)) not onindividual conversational participants, but on ?par-ties?.
Lerner (1991) suggests that split utterancescan clarify the formation of such parties in thatthey reveal evidence of how syntax can be em-ployed to organise participants into ?groups?.Analysis of SUs, when they can or cannot oc-cur, and what effects they have on the coordina-tion of agents in dialogue, is therefore an area ofinterest not only for conversational analysts wish-ing to characterise systematic interactions in di-alogue, but also for linguists trying to formulategrammars of dialogue, psychologists and sociolin-guists interested in alignment mechanisms and so-cial interaction, and those interested in buildingautomatic dialogue processing systems.
In this pa-per we present and examine empirical corpus datain order to shed light on some of the questions andcontroversies around this phenomenon.2 Related WorkMost previous work on what we call SUs has ex-amined specific sub-cases, generally of the cross-speaker type, and have referred to these vari-ously as collaborative turn sequences (Lerner,1996; Lerner, 2004), collaborative completions(Clark, 1996; Poesio and Rieser, to appear),co-constructions (Sacks, 1992), joint produc-tions (Helasvuo, 2004), co-participant comple-tions (Hayashi, 1999; Lerner and Takagi, 1999),collaborative productions (Szczepek, 2000) andanticipatory completions (Fox and others, 2007)(amongst others).
Here we discuss some of theseviews.Conversation Analysis Lerner (1991) identifiesvarious structures typical of SUs which containcharacteristic split points.
Firstly he gives anumber of ?compound?
turn-constructional units(TCUs), i.e., structures that include an initial con-stituent that hearers can identify as introducingsome later final component.
Examples include theIF X-THEN Y, WHEN X-THEN Y and INSTEAD263OF X-Y constructions:(1) A: Before that then if they were illG: They get nothing.
[BNC H5H 110-111]Other cues for potential anticipatory completionsinclude quotation markers (e.g.
SHE SAID), paren-thetical inserts and lists, as well as non-syntacticcues such as contrast stress or prefaced disagree-ments.
Ru?hlemann (2007) uses corpus analysis toexamine sentence relatives as typical expansionsof another interlocutor?s turn (see also (16)):(2) A: profit for the group is a hundred andninety thousand pounds.B: Which is superb.
[BNC FUK 2460-2461 ]Opportunistic Cases Although Lerner focuseson these projectable turn completions, he alsomentions that splits can occur at other points suchas ?intra-turn silence?, hesitations etc.
which heterms opportunistic completions:(3) A: Well I do know last week thet=uh Al wascertainly very ?
pause 0.5?B: pissed off [(Lerner, 1996, p260)]As he makes no claims regarding the frequencyof such devices for SUs, it would be interesting toknow how common these are (insomuch as theyoccur at all and can be accordingly classified), es-pecially as studies on SUs in Japanese (Hayashi,1999) show that although SUs do occur, they donot rely on compound TCUs.Expansions vs. Completions Other classifica-tions of SUs often distinguish between expansionsand completions (Ono and Thompson, 1993).
Ex-pansions are continuations which add, e.g., an ad-junct, to an already complete syntactic element:(4) T: It?ll be an E sharp.G: Which will of course just be played as anF.
[BNC G3V 262-263]whilst completions involve the addition of syntac-tic material which is required to make the wholeutterance complete:(5) A: .
.
.
and then we looked along one deck, wewere high up, and down below there wererows of, rows of lifeboats in case you seeB: There was an accident.A: of an accident [BNC HDK 63-65]In terms of frequency, the only estimate weknow of is Szczepek (2000), where there are ap-parently 200 cross-person SUs in 40 hours of En-glish conversation (there is no mention of the num-ber of sentences or turns this equates to), of which75% are completions.2 As briefly outlined above,CA analyses of SUs tend to be broadly descriptiveof what they reveal for conversational practices.Because such analyses present real examples theyestablish that the phenomenon is a genuine one;however, there is no discussion of its scale (withthe exception of Szczepek (2000), which offers ex-tremely limited figures).
Even though as a gen-uine phenomenon it is of theoretical interest, thelack of frequency statistics prevents generalisabil-ity.
Therefore, any claims that SUs are pervasivein dialogue need empirical backing.Linguistic Models Purver et al (2006) presenta grammatical model for split utterances, using aninherently incremental grammar formalism, Dy-namic Syntax (Kempson et al, 2001; Cann et al,2005).
This model shows how syntactic and se-mantic processing can be accounted for no mat-ter where the split occurs in a sentence; how-ever, as their interest is in grammatical process-ing, they give no account of any higher-level in-ferences which may be required.
Poesio andRieser (to appear) present a general model for col-laborative completions based in the PTT frame-work, using an incremental LTAG-based gram-mar and an information-state-based approach tocontext modelling.
While many parts of theirmodel are compatible with a simple alignment-based communication model like Pickering andGarrod (2004)?s, they see intention recognition ascrucial to dialogue management.
They concludethat an intention-based model, more like Clark(1996)?s, is more suitable.
Their primary concernis to show how such a model can account for thehearer?s ability to infer a suitable continuation, buttheir use of an incremental interpretation methodalso allows an explanation of the low-level utter-ance processing required.
Nevertheless, the useof an essentially head-driven grammar formalismsuggests that some syntactic splits that appear inour corpus might be more problematic than oth-ers.Corpus Studies Skuplik (1999), as reported byPoesio and Rieser (to appear), collected data fromGerman two-party task-oriented dialogue, and an-notated for split utterance phenomena.
She foundthat expansions (cases where the part before thesplit can be considered already complete) were2However, this could be affected by her decision not toinclude what she calls appendor questions in her data whichcould also be argued to be expansion SUs.264more common than completions (where the firstpart is incomplete as it stands).
Given that thisstudy focuses on task-oriented dialogue, it needsto be shown that its results can be replicated in nat-urally occurring dialogue.
In addition, de Ruiterand van Dienst (in preparation) are also in the pro-cess of studying other-initiated completions, in theabove sense, and their effect on the progressivityof dialogue turns; however no results are availableto us at this point in time.Dialogue Models We are not aware of anysystem/model which treats other-person splits,but same-person ones are now being looked at.Skantze and Schlangen (2009) present an incre-mental system design (for a limited domain) whichcan react to user feedback, e.g., backchannels, andresume with utterance completion if interrupted.Some related empirical work regarding the issueof turn-switch addressed here is also presented inSchlangen (2006) but the emphasis there centeredmostly on prosodic rather than grammar/theory-based factors.3 Method3.1 TerminologyIn this paper, as our interest is general, we use theterm split utterances (SUs) to cover all instanceswhere an utterance is spread across more than onedialogue contribution ?
whether the contributionsare by the same or different speakers.
We there-fore use the term split point to refer to the point atwhich the utterance is split (rather than e.g.
tran-sition point which is associated with a speakerchange).
Cases where speaker does change acrossthe split will be called other-person splits; oth-erwise same-person splits.
One of the reasonsfor including same-person splits is that there areclaims in the literature that the initial speaker maystrategically continue completing their own utter-ance, after another person?s intervention, as an al-ternative to acceptance or rejection of this inter-vention (delayed completion, (Lerner, 1996)).
Inaddition, both grammatical formalisms (Purver etal., 2006) and psycholinguistic models (Picker-ing and Garrod, 2004) predict that SUs should beequally natural in both the same- and other- personconditions.As not all cases will lead to complete contri-butions, and not all will be split over exactly twocontributions, we also avoid terms like first-half,second-half and completion: instead the contri-butions on either side of a split point will be re-ferred to as the antecedent and the continuation.In cases where an utterance has more than one splitpoint, some portions may therefore act as the con-tinuation for one split point, and the antecedent forthe next.3.2 QuestionsGeneral Our first interest is in the general statis-tics regarding SUs: how often do they occur, andwhat is the balance between same- and other-person splits?
Do they usually fall into the specificcategories (with specific preferred split points) ex-amined by e.g.
Lerner (1991), or can the splitpoint be anywhere?Completeness For a grammatical treatmentof SUs, as well as for implementing pars-ing/production mechanisms for their processing,we need to know about the likely completenessof antecedent and continuation (if they are al-ways complete in their own right, a standard head-driven grammar may be suitable; if not, some-thing more fundamentally incremental may be re-quired).
In addition, CA and other strategic anal-yses of dialogue phenomena predict that split ut-terances should occur at turn-transfer points thatare foreseeable by the participants.
Complete syn-tactic units serve this purpose from this point ofview and lack of such completeness will seemto weaken this general claim.
We therefore askhow often antecedents and continuations are them-selves complete,3 and look at the syntactic and lex-ical categories which occur either side of the split.Repair and Overlap Thirdly, we look at howoften splits involve explicit repair of antecedentmaterial, and how this depends on antecedentcompleteness.
Although, sometimes, repair mightbe attributed to overlap or speaker uncertainty, italso might indicate issues regarding preemptivetactics on the part of the current speaker who needsto reformulate the original contribution in orderto accommodate their novel offering or take intoaccount feedback offered while constructing theirutterance.
Amount of repair also indicates the de-gree of attempt the current speaker is making to3For antecedents, we are more interested in whether theyend in a way that seems complete (they may have started ir-regularly due to overlap or another split); for continuations,whether they start in such a way (they may not get finishedfor some other reason, but we want to know if they would becomplete if they do get finished).265Tag Value Explanationend-complete y/n For all sentences: does this sentence end in such a way as toyield a complete proposition or speech act?continues sentence ID For all sentences: does this sentence continue the propositionor speech act of a previous sentence?
If so, which one?repairs number of words For continuations: does this continuation explicitly repairwords in the antecedent?
If so, how many?start-complete y/n For continuations: does this continuation start in such a way asto be able to stand alone as a complete proposition or speechact?Table 1: Annotation Tagsintegrate syntactically their contribution with theantecedent.
However, we also examine how oftencontinuations involve overlap, which also has im-plications for turn-taking management, and howthis depends on antecedent completeness.3.3 CorpusFor this exercise we used the portion of theBNC (Burnard, 2000) annotated by Ferna?ndez andGinzburg (2002), chosen to maintain a balance be-tween context-governed dialogue (tutorials, meet-ings, doctor?s appointments etc.)
and general con-versation.
This portion comprises 11,469 sen-tences taken from 200-turn sections of 53 separatedialogues.The BNC transcripts are already annotated foroverlapping speech, for non-verbal noises (laugh-ter, coughing etc.)
and for significant pauses.Punctuation is included, based on the original au-dio and the transcribers?
judgements; as the au-dio is not available, we allowed annotators to usepunctuation where it aided interpretation.
TheBNC transcription protocol provides a sentence-level annotation as well as an utterance (turn)-levelone, where turns may be made of several sentencesby the same speaker.
We annotated at a sentence-level, to allow self-continuations within a turn tobe examined.
The BNC also forces turns to bepresented in linear order, which is vital if we areto accurately assess whether turns are continua-tions of one another; however, this has a side-effect of forcing long turns to appear split into sev-eral shorter turns when interrupted by interveningbackchannels.
We will discuss this further below.Annotation Scheme The initial stage of manualannotation involved 4 tags: start-complete,end-complete, continues and repairs ?these are explained in Table 1 above.
Sentenceswhich somehow require continuation (whetherthey receive it or not) are therefore those markedend-complete=n; sentences which act ascontinuations are those marked with non-emptycontinues tags; and their antecedents are thevalues of those continues tags.
Further specificinformation about the syntactic or lexical nature ofantecedent or continuation components could thenbe extracted (semi-)automatically, using the BNCtranscript and part-of-speech annotations.Inter-Annotator Agreement Three annotatorswere used, all linguistically knowledgeable.
First,all three annotators annotated one dialogue inde-pendently, then compared results and discusseddifferences.
They then annotated 3 further di-alogues independently to assess inter-annotatoragreement; kappa statistics (Carletta, 1996) areshown in Table 2 below.Tag KND KBG KB0end-complete .86-.92 .80-1.0 .73-.90continues (y/n) .89-.81 .76-.85 .77-.89continues (ant) .90-.82 .74-.85 .76-.86repairs 1.0-1.0 .55-.81 1.0-1.0Table 2: Inter-Annotator ?
statistic (min-max)With the exception of the repairs tag for oneannotator pair for one dialogue, all are above 0.7;the low figure results from a few disagreementsin a dialogue with only a very small number ofrepairs instances.
The remaining dialogueswere divided evenly between the three annotators.4 Results and DiscussionThe 11,469 sentences annotated yielded 2,228SUs, of which 1,902 were same-person and 326other-person splits; 111 examples involved an ex-plicit repair by the continuation of some part of theantecedent.266person: same otheroverlapping 0 17adjacent 840 260sep.
by overlap 320 10sep.
by backchnl 460 17sep.
by 1 sent 239 16sep.
by 2 sents 31 4sep.
by 3 sents 5 1sep.
by 4 sents 4 0sep.
by 5 sents 1 0sep.
by 6 sents 2 1Total 1902 326Table 3: Antecedent/continuation separationGeneral Same-person splits are much morecommon than other-person; however, this is partlyan artefact of the BNC transcription protocol(which forces contributions to be linearly ordered)and our choice to annotate at the sentence level.Around 44% of same-person cases are splits be-tween sentences within the same-speaker turn;and a further 17% are separated only by other-speaker material which entirely overlaps with theantecedent and therefore does not necessarily ac-tually interrupt the turn.
Both of these might beconsidered as single utterances under some views.However, we believe that splits between same-turn sentences must be investigated in that thetranscription into separate sentences does indicatesome pause or other separating prosody and, froma processing/psycholinguistic point of view, itshould be determined whether other-person splitsoccur in the same places as same-person splitboundaries.
Even in cases of overlap, one can-not exclude the fact that the shape of the currentspeaker?s utterance is influenced by receipt of thefeedback.
Nevertheless, we will examine theseissues in further research and hence we excludewithin-turn splits of this type from here on.Many splits are non-adjacent (see Table 3), withthe antecedent and continuation separated by atleast one intervening sentence.
In same-personcases, once we have excluded the within-turnsplits described above, this must in fact alwaysbe the case; the intervening material is usually abackchannel (62% of remaning cases) or a sin-gle other sentence (32%, often e.g.
a clarificationquestion), but two intervening sentences are possi-ble (4%) with up to six being seen.
In other-personcases, 88% are adjacent or separated only by over-lapping material, but again up to six interveningperson: same otherand/but/or 748 116so/whereas 257 39because 77 3(pause) 56 5which/who/etc 26 4instead of 4 1said/thought/etc 14 0if then 1 0when then 1 1(other) 783 161Table 4: Continuation categoriessentences were seen, with a single sentence mostcommon (10%, in half of which the interveningsentence was a backchannel).Many utterances have more than one split.
Insame-person cases, a single utterance can be splitover as many as thirteen individual sentence con-tributions; although such extreme cases occur gen-erally within one-sided dialogues such as tutori-als, many multi-split cases are also seen in generalconversation.
Only 63% of cases consisted of onlytwo contributions.
Antecedents can also receivemore than one competing continuation, althoughthis is rare: two continuations are seen in 2% ofcases.CA Categories We searched for exampleswhich match CA categories (Lerner, 1991;Ru?hlemann, 2007) by looking for particular lex-ical items on either side of the split.
Matching wasdone loosely, to allow for the ungrammatical na-ture of dialogue ?
for example, an instance wastaken to match the IF X-THEN Y pattern if the con-tinuation began with ?then?
(modulo filled pausesand non-verbal material) and the antecedent con-tained ?if?
at any point) ?
so the counts may beover-estimates.
For Lerner (1996)?s opportunisticcases, we looked for filled pauses (?er/erm?
etc.
)or pauses explicitly annotated in the transcript, socounts in this case may be underestimates.4 Wealso chose some other broad categories based onour observations of the most common cases.
Re-sults are shown in Table 4.5The most common of the CA categories can be4In further research we will examine other features as spe-cialised laugh tokens, repetitions etc.
as well as their particu-lar positioning5Note that the categories in Table 4 are not all mutuallyexclusive (e.g.
an example may have both an ?and?-initialcontinuation and an antecedent ending in a pause), so columnsums will not match Table 3.267seen to be Lerner (1996)?s hesitation-related op-portunistic cases, which make up at least 2-3% ofboth same- and other-person splits.
Ru?hlemann(2007)?s sentence relative clause cases are next,with over 1%; the others make up only small pro-portions.In contrast, by far the most common pattern (forboth same- and other-) is the addition of an ex-tending clause, either a conjunction introduced by?and/but/or/nor?
(35-40%), or other clause typeswith ?so/whereas/nevertheless/because?.
Otherless obviously categorisable cases make up 40-50% of continuations, with the most common firstwords being ?you?, ?it?, ?I?, ?the?, ?in?
and ?that?.Completeness and repair Examination of theend-complete annotations shows that about8% of sentences in general are incomplete, butthat (perhaps surprisingly) only 63% of these getcontinued.
For both same- and other-person con-tinuations, the vast majority (72% and 74%) con-tinue an already complete antecedent, with only26-28% therefore being completions in the senseof e.g.
de Ruiter and van Dienst (in preparation).This does, however, mean that continuations aresignificantly more likely than other sentences tofollow an incomplete antecedent (p < 0.001 us-ing ?2(1)).
Interestingly, though, continuations areno more likely than other sentences to be completethemselves.The frequent clausal categories from Table 4 areall more likely to continue complete antecedentsthan incomplete ones, with the exception of the(other) category; this suggests that split pointsoften occur at random points in a sentence, withoutregard to particular clausal constructions (see alsoA.1 for more examples and context):(6) D: you know what the actual variationsU: entailsD: entails.
you know what the actual qualityof the variations are.
[BNC G4V 114-117]For the less frequent (e.g.
?if/then?, ?instead of?
)categories, the counts are too low to be sure.Excluding all the clausal constructions (i.e.looking only at the general (other) category),and looking only at other-person cases, we see thatantecedents often end in a complete way (53%) butthat continuations do not often start in a completeway (24%).
Continuations are more than twiceas likely to start in a non-complete as opposedto complete way, even after complete antecedents.Explicit repair of some portion of the antecedentis not common, only occurring in just under 5%of splits.
As might be expected, incomplete an-tecedents are more likely to be repaired (13% vs.2%, p < 0.001 using ?2(1)).
Other-continuationsare also significantly more likely to repair their an-tecedents than same-person cases (10% vs. 4%,p < 0.001 using ?2(1)).Problematic cases Examination of the datashows that SUs is not necessarily an autonomouswell-defined category independent of other frag-ment classifications in the literature.
Besides caseswhere it is not easy to identify whether a fragmentis a continuation or not or what the antecedentis (see A.2), there are also cases where, as hasalready been pointed out in the literature (Gre-goromichelaki et al, 2009; Bunt, 2009), fragmentsexhibit multifunctionality.
This can be illustratedby the following where the continuation could betaken also as request for confirmation/question (7)or a reply to a clarification request (8):(7) M: It?s generated with a handle andJ: Wound round?M: Yes [BNC K69 109-112](8) S: Quite a good word processor.J: A word processor?S: Which is vag- it?s basically a subset ofWord.
[BNC H61 37-39]In this respect, an interesting category is Lerner?sdelayed completions where often the continuationalso serves as some kind of repair or reformulation(see e.g.
(6) and A.3 (26)).5 ConclusionsAlthough most of Lerner (1991)?s categories ap-pear, they are not necessarily the most frequent.On the other hand, the general results seem to in-dicate that splits can occur anywhere in a string,both in the same- or other- conditions.
Both theseare consistent with models that advocate highlycoordinated resources between interlocutors and,moreover, the need for highly incremental meansof processing (Purver et al, 2006; Skantze andSchlangen, 2009).
From a computational mod-elling point of view, the results also indicate thatstart-completeness of continuations is rare, whichmeans that a dialogue system has a chance of spot-ting continuations from surface characteristics of268the input.
This is hampered though by the factthat the split can occur within any type of syn-tactic constituent, hence no reliable grammaticalfeatures can be employed securely.
On the otherhand, end-incompleteness of antecedents is not ascommon as would be expected and long distancesbetween antecedent and continuation are possible.In this respect, locating the antecedent is not astraightforward task for automated systems, espe-cially again as this can be any type of constituent.ReferencesH.
Bunt.
2009.
Multifunctionality and multidimen-sional dialogue semantics.
In Proceedings of Dia-Holmia, 13th SEMDIAL Workshop.L.
Burnard.
2000.
Reference Guide for the British Na-tional Corpus (World Edition).
Oxford UniversityComputing Services http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/docs/userManual/.R.
Cann, R. Kempson, and L. Marten.
2005.
The Dy-namics of Language.
Elsevier, Oxford.J.
Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on classifica-tion tasks: The kappa statistic.
Computational Lin-guistics, 22(2):249?255.H.
Clark.
1996.
Using Language.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.J.
de Ruiter and M. van Dienst.
in preparation.
Com-pleting other people?s utterances: evidence for for-ward modeling in conversation.
ms.R.
Ferna?ndez and J. Ginzburg.
2002.
Non-sententialutterances: A corpus-based study.
Traitement Au-tomatique des Langues, 43(2).A.
Fox et al 2007.
Principles shaping grammati-cal practices: an exploration.
Discourse Studies,9(3):299.E.
Gregoromichelaki, Y. Sato, R. Kempson, A. Gargett,and C. Howes.
2009.
Dialogue modelling and theremit of core grammar.
In Proceedings of IWCS.M.
Hayashi.
1999.
Where Grammar and Interac-tion Meet: A Study of Co-Participant Completion inJapanese Conversation.
Human Studies, 22(2):475?499.M.
Helasvuo.
2004.
Shared syntax: the gram-mar of co-constructions.
Journal of Pragmatics,36(8):1315?1336.R.
Kempson, W. Meyer-Viol, and D. Gabbay.
2001.Dynamic Syntax: The Flow of Language Under-standing.
Blackwell.G.
Lerner and T. Takagi.
1999.
On the placeof linguistic resources in the organization of talk-in-interaction: A co-investigation of English andJapanese grammatical practices.
Journal of Prag-matics, 31(1):49?75.G.
Lerner.
1991.
On the syntax of sentences-in-progress.
Language in Society, pages 441?458.G.
Lerner.
1996.
On the semi-permeable characterof grammatical units in conversation: Conditionalentry into the turn space of another speaker.
InE.
Ochs, E. A. Schegloff, and S. A. Thompson,editors, Interaction and grammar, pages 238?276.Cambridge University Press.G.
Lerner.
2004.
Collaborative turn sequences.
InConversation analysis: Studies from the first gener-ation, pages 225?256.
John Benjamins.T.
Ono and S. Thompson.
1993.
What can conversa-tion tell us about syntax.
In P. Davis, editor, Alterna-tive Linguistics: Descriptive and Theoretical Modes.Benjamin.M.
Pickering and S. Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mech-anistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral andBrain Sciences, 27:169?226.M.
Poesio and H. Rieser.
to appear.
Completions, co-ordination, and alignment in dialogue.
Ms.M.
Purver, R. Cann, and R. Kempson.
2006.Grammars as parsers: Meeting the dialogue chal-lenge.
Research on Language and Computation,4(2-3):289?326.C.
Ru?hlemann.
2007.
Conversation in context: acorpus-driven approach.
Continuum.H.
Sacks, E. A. Schegloff, and G. Jefferson.
1974.A simplest systematics for the organization of turn-taking for conversation.
Language, 50(4):696?735.H.
Sacks.
1992.
Lectures on Conversation.
Blackwell.E.
Schegloff.
1995.
Parties and talking together: Twoways in which numbers are significant for talk-in-interaction.
Situated order: Studies in the socialorganization of talk and embodied activities, pages31?42.D.
Schlangen.
2006.
From reaction to prediction: Ex-periments with computational models of turn-taking.In Proceedings of the 9th International Conferenceon Spoken Language Processing (INTERSPEECH -ICSLP).G.
Skantze and D. Schlangen.
2009.
Incremental dia-logue processing in a micro-domain.
In Proceedingsof the 12th Conference of the European Chapter ofthe ACL (EACL 2009).K.
Skuplik.
1999.
Satzkooperationen.
definition undempirische untersuchung.
SFB 360 1999/03, Biele-feld University.B.
Szczepek.
2000.
Formal Aspects of CollaborativeProductions in English Conversation.
Interactionand Linguistic Structures (InLiSt), http://www.uni-potsdam.de/u/inlist/issues/17/.269A ExamplesA.1 Split points(6) D: Yeah I mean if you?re looking at quan-titative things it?s really you know howmuch actual- How much variation hap-pens whereas qualitative is ?pause?
youknow what the actual variationsU: entailsD: entails.
you know what the actual qualityof the variations are.
[BNC G4V 114-117](9) A: All the machinery wasG: [[All steam.
]]6A: [[operated]] by steam[BNC H5G 177-179](10) K: I?ve got a scribble behind it, oh annual re-port I?d get that from.S: Right.K: And the total number of [[sixth form stu-dents in a division.
]]S: [[Sixth form stu-dents in a division.]]
Right.
[BNC H5D 123-127](11) M: 292 And another sixteen percent is theother Ne- Nestle coffee ?pause?
ermBlend Thirty Seven which I used to drinka long time ago and others ?laugh?
andtwenty two percent is er ?pause?U: Maxwell.M: Maxwell House, which has become theother local brand now seeing as howMaxwell House is owned by Kraft, andKraft now own Terry?s.
[BNC G3U 292-294](12) A: Erm because as Moira said that Kraft iserm ?pause?
now what was she saying,what was she saying Kraft is the same as?pause?M: Craft?
[BNC G3U 412-413](13) J: And I couldn?t remember whether shesaid at the end of the three months orA: End of the month.
[BNC H4P 17-18]6Overlapping material is shown in double square brackets,aligned with the material with which it co-occurs.
(14) G: Had their own menA: unload the boats?G: unload the boats, yes.
[BNC H5H 91-93](15) G: That?s right they had to go on a rota.A: Run by the Dock Commission?G: Run by the Dock Commission.
[BNC H5H 100-102](16) A: So I thought, oh, I think I?ll put lace overit, it?ll tone the lilac [[down.
]]B: [[down.]]
Yes.Which it is has done[BNC KBC 3195-3198]A.2 Uncertain antecedents(17) C: Look you?re cleaning this ?pause?
[[with erm]]G: [[That box.
]]C: [[This.
]]G: [[With]] this.
[[And this.
]]C: [[And this.]]
[[And this.
]]G: [[And this.]]Whoops!
[BNC KSR 9-17](18) S: You?re trying to be everything ?pause?and they?re pushing it away cos it?s notwhat they really want ?pause?
and they, Imean, all, all you can get from him is howmarvellous, you?re right, how marvelloushis brothers are ?pause?
and yet, what I?veheard of the brothers they?re notC: Not much, [[yeah.
]]S: [[they?re]] not all that marvel-lous, they?re not really that much to look[[up]]C: [[Ah]].S: to.C: No [BNC KBG 76-81](19) S: Well this is why I think he?d be betteroff, hi- his needs ?pause?
are not met by aclass teacher.
And I don?t think they havebeen for this lastC: Mm, we need a support teacher [[to gothere.
]]S: [[for thelast]] year.
But yo-, you need somebodywho?s gonna work with him every day?pause?
and ?pause?
with an individualprogramme and you just can?t offer that?pause?
in a class.
[BNC KBG 56-60]270(20) M: I might be a bit biased, I think they stilldo that but I think erm ?pause?J: The television has ?pause?M: the television has made a difference.
Ithink not only just at fire stations, I thinkin the whole of life, hasn?t it?
[BNC K69 51-54](21)A5: I?ll definitely use thatU: ?reading?
:[ Get a headache ]?A5: [[in getting to know ]]A2: [[Year seven ]]A5: new [[year seven]]A2: [[Oh yeah]] for year seven[BNC J8D 190-195](22) G: Well a chain locker is where all the sparechain used to like coil upA: So it ?unclear?
came in and it went roundG: round the barrel about three times roundthe barrel then right down into the chainlocker but if you kept, let it ride what weused to call let it ride well ?unclear?
wellnow it get so big then you have to run itall off cos you had one lever, that?s whatyou had and the steam valve could haveall steamed.
[BNC H5G 174:176]A.3 Multifunctionality of fragments(7) Completion and confirmation request:J: How does it generate?M: It?s generated with a handle andJ: Wound round?M: Yes, wind them round and this should,should generate a charge which rang bellsand sounded bells and then er you lift up atelephone and plug in a jack and, and takea message in that way.
[BNC K69 109-112](23) Completion and confirmation request:G: Had their own menA: unload the boats?G: unload the boats, yes.
[BNC H5H 91-93](24) Late completion and (repetitive) confir-mation:N: Alistair [last or full name] erm he?s, he?smade himself er he has made himself co-ordinator.U: And section engineer.N: And section engineer.N: I didn?t sign it as coordinator.
[BNC H48 141-144](25) Completion and clarification reply:John: If you press NSarah: N?John: N for name, it?ll let you type in the docudocument name.
[BNC G4K 84-86](26) Expansion and reformulation/repair:S: Secondly erJ: We guarantee P five.S: We we are we?re guaranteeing P five plusa noise level.J: Yeah.
[BNC JP3 167-170](27) Expansion and question:I: I can?t remember exactly who lived onthe right hand side, I?ve forgotten but thI know the Chief Clerk lived just a littleway down [address], you see, erA: In one of those little red brick cottages?
[BNC HDK 124-125](28) Answer and expansion:A: We could hear it from outside ?unclear?.R: Oh you could hear it?A: Occasionally yeah.
[BNC J8D 13-15](29) Answer/reformulation and expansion:G: [address], that was in the middle, more orless in the middle of the town.A: And you called that the manual?G: The manual school, yes.
[BNC H5G 96-98]271
