Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 333?337,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsSemantic Argument Structure in DiscoursE:The SEASIDE ProjectCaroline SporlederComputational Linguistics / Cluster of ExcellenceSaarland University66041 Saarbru?cken, Germanycsporled@coli.uni-saarland.deThe recently started SEASIDE project is funded for five years (2008-2013) by the German Excellence Initiative as part of Saarland University?sCluster of Excellence on ?Multimodal Computing and Interaction?.
In theproject, we aim to bring together two active research areas which both dealwith ?computing meaning?
but currently stand more or less independentlynext to each other: discourse processing and computation of semantic argu-ment structure.
We expect that both areas will benefit from this: semanticargument information will allow for a more sophisticated representation ofdiscourse meaning, while discourse information can also be beneficial forsystems which compute semantic argument structure (i.e.
semantic role la-bellers).
Eventually we aim for an incremental model of text meaning whichcan be computed in a robust, data-driven way by utilising and combininginformation from several levels of linguistic analysis.
The model should besophisticated enough to aid applications such as text mining, informationextraction, question answering, and text summarisation.Discourse processing deals with modelling the meaning of multi-sentence units.
Early approaches (e.g.
Hobbs et al, 1993) were heavilyknowledge-based and, while these systems worked well on small, well-defineddomains, they generally did not scale up very well.
More recent researchlargely abandoned the knowledge-based approach in favour of much shal-lower systems, either rule-based (Polanyi et al, 2004) or machine-learned(Soricut and Marcu, 2003).
These systems rely largely on surface cues.While shallow models can be quite successful, they also have clear limita-tions.
For example, progress on discourse parsing has stagnated in the lastyears and text summarisation is still a challenge, especially from multipleinput documents.333Theories of semantic argument structure, such as Frame Semantics,model relations within individual sentences, namely the relation between alexical item and its semantic arguments such as agent or patient .
During thelast five to ten years there has been much research in this area, as witnessedby several large scale projects aimed at providing lexicons and annotatedcorpora (e.g., FrameNet,1PropBank,2and SALSA3), and numerous sharedtasks on semantic role labelling (Baker et al, 2007; Carreras and Ma`rquez,2005; Carreras and Ma`rques, 2004).
While the performance of semanticparsers is still lower than that of syntactic parsers, it is now good enoughthat NLP tasks such as information extraction or question answering canbe shown to benefit from automatically computed semantic argument struc-tures (Moschitti et al, 2003; Shen and Lapata, 2007).While Frame Semantics was originally seen as being grounded in dis-course (Fillmore, 1977), its computational treatment has largely been re-stricted to the sentence level, which may also be due to the fact that an-notated data typically consists of sets of individual sentences rather thanof running text, though there has been some effort recently to create fulltext annotations as well.
Few studies tried to connect frame semantic an-notations across sentences.
Two notable exceptions are Fillmore and Baker(2001) and Burchardt et al (2005).
Fillmore and Baker (2001) analyse ashort newspaper article and discuss how Frame Semantics could benefit dis-course processing but without making concrete suggestions.
Burchardt et al(2005) provide a more detailed analysis of a short text but their system isnot fully implemented.In the SEASIDE project we aim to bridge the gap between discourseprocessing and semantic argument structure information by (i) enrichingsemantic role labelling with discourse information, and (ii) enriching dis-course models with information about the semantic argument structure ofthe individual clauses.Discourse information could be useful for semantic role labelling in anumber of ways:?
by integrating discourse features in the models, e.g.
information aboutthe rhetorical relations that hold between adjacent sentences, such ascontrast or elaboration, or about the focus structure?
developing statistical models of the roles that are likely to be realisedin different contexts1http://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu2http://verbs.colorado.edu/?mpalmer/projects/ace.html3http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/projects/salsa/334?
utilising frame-to-frame relations as specified by FrameNet to improveframe disambiguation and role labelling?
equipping semantic role labellers with a ?memory?
to allow them tobuild text meaning representations incrementally rather than havingto start ?from scratch?
for each target predicateWe also believe that semantic role labelling should not stop at the sentencelevel; semantic argument structures are often incomplete and linking themacross clause boundaries will benefit many NLP tasks.
For instance, considerthe verb clear in example (1).
This verb evokes the Verdict frame whichhas a role for Charges that is not filled locally (i.e., by any of the syntacticconstituents in the second sentence) but can be inferred from the precedingsentence, which specifies the charges as for murder .
Semantic role labellingsystems which operate on the sentence-level miss this crucial fact and willbe unable to fill the charges role of Verdict, even though it is presentin the discourse context.
Systems which can link local semantic argumentstructures can create more complete meaning representations of a text thansemantic role labellers restricted to the local domain.
In order to stimulateresearch in this direction, we are organising a Shared Task at SemEval-2010 on finding links between locally uninstantiated roles and the discoursecontext.4To our knowledge, the data we are creating for this task will bethe first publicly available reference data set containing information aboutglobal linking of semantic argument structures.
(1) In a lengthy court case the defendant was tried for murder.
Eventu-ally, he was cleared.While discourse information can be beneficial for the computation of se-matic argument structures, the reverse is also true: the semantic argumentstructures in a text and their relations can provide vital cues about thecoherence of the discourse.
Incorporating (automatically computed) argu-ment structure information leads to more sophisticated models of discoursestructure.
Such models encode deeper linguistic information than modelsbased on surface cues, while still being computable in a data-driven fashion.Utilising frame semantic information can, for example, explain why exam-ple (23) is perceived as more coherent than (24): The verb try evokes theTry defendant frame which is closely linked to the Sentencing frameevoked by sentence.
Furthermore the defendant role of the first frame is4See http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/projects/semeval2010 FG/335co-referent with the convict role of the second frame, and the unrealisedcourt role of the Sentencing frame can be linked to The High Court inthe following sentence.
The discourse in (24), on the other hand, is per-ceived as less coherent.
One reason for this is that there are fewer linksbetween the semantic argument structures in the two sentences.
For in-stance, the Lose possession frame evoked by lost cannot be linked easilyto Try defendant.
Nor are any roles shared between the frames in thetwo sentences, with the exception of the co-reference between the convictrole of sentencing (Dan Talor) and the donor role of Lose possession(He).
While the absence of obvious semantic argument structure links doesnot necessarily mean that a text is not coherent,5their presence is likely tobe a fairly reliable cue for coherence.
(2) (3) Dan Taylor was tried for murder.
The High Court sentencedhim to life imprisonment.
(4) Dan Taylor was tried for murder.
He had lost his car keys.In the SEASIDE project, we aim to develop models which can computeinterconnected semantic argument representations for a given text, enablingus to predict such differences in coherence.ReferencesCollin Baker, Michael Ellsworth, and Katrin Erk.
Semeval-2007 task 19: Frame semanticstructure extraction.
In Proceedings of the Fourth International Workshop on SemanticEvaluations (SemEval-2007), pages 99?104, 2007.Aljoscha Burchardt, Anette Frank, and Manfred Pinkal.
Building text meaning repre-sentations from contextually related frames ?
a case study.
In Proceedings of IWCS-6,2005.Xavier Carreras and Llu?
?s Ma`rques.
Introduction to the CoNLL-2004 shared task: Seman-tic role labeling.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Computational Natural LanguageLearning (CoNLL-04), pages 89?97, 2004.Xavier Carreras and Llu?
?s Ma`rquez.
Introduction to the CoNLL-2005 shared task: Se-mantic role labeling.
In Proceedings of the Ninth Conference on Computational NaturalLanguage Learning (CoNLL-2005), pages 152?164, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 2005.Charles J. Fillmore.
Scenes-and-frames semantics, linguistic structures processing.
InAntonio Zampolli, editor, Fundamental Studies in Computer Science, No.
59, pages55?88.
North Holland Publishing, 1977.Charles J. Fillmore and Collin F. Baker.
Frame semantics for text understanding.
In Proc.of the NAACL-01 Workshop on WordNet and Other Lexical Resources, 2001.5The sentence sequence Dan Taylor was tried for murder.
He had lost his patience.
forexample, might be interpreted as coherent.336Jerry R. Hobbs, Mark Stickel, Douglas Appelt, and Paul Martin.
Interpretation as ab-duction.
Artificial Intelligence, 63(1-2):69?142, 1993.Alessandro Moschitti, Paul Morarescu, and Sanda Harabagiu.
Open-domain informationextraction via automatic semantic labeling.
In Proceedings of FLAIRS, pages 397?401,2003.Livia Polanyi, Chris Culy, Martin van den Berg, Gian Lorenzo Thione, and David Ahn.A rule based approach to discourse parsing.
In Proc.
of the 5th SIGDIAL Workshop inDiscourse and Dialogue, pages 108?117, 2004.Dan Shen and Mirella Lapata.
Using semantic roles to improve question answering.
InProceedings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-07), 2007.Radu Soricut and Daniel Marcu.
Sentence level discourse parsing using syntactic andlexical information.
In Proc.
HLT-NAACL-03, 2003.337
