Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 157?168,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsTowards a Multidimensional Semantics of DiscourseMarkers in Spoken DialogueVolha Petukhova and Harry Buntv.petukhova@uvt.nl; harry.bunt@uvt.nlAbstractThe literature contains a wealth of theoretical and empirical anal-yses of discourse marker functions in human communication.
Some ofthese studies address the phenomenon that discourse markers are oftenmultifunctional in a given context, but do not study this in systematicand formal ways.
In this paper we show that the use of multiple dimen-sions in distinguishing and annotating semantic units supports a moreaccurate analysis of the meaning of discourse markers.
We present anempirically-based analysis of the semantic functions of discourse mark-ers in dialogue.
We demonstrate that the multiple functions, which adiscourse marker may have, are automatically recognizable from utter-ance surface-features using machine-learning techniques.1 IntroductionDiscourse markers are key indicators of discourse structure, and have beenshown to be useful devices for (a) segmenting discourse into meaningfulunits, and (b) identifying relations between these units.
The determinationof the meanings of discourse markers is often crucial for understanding thecommunicated message.Discourse markers have been studied for their role in the organizationof discourse structure in larger texts ([12], [16]), in argumentative dialogues([6]), in interviews ([15], [10]) and in dialogues that are highly interactive innature and are characterized by rapid turn switching among participants,such as task-oriented dialogues ([9]) or meeting conversations ([14]).The research reported in this paper regards the use of discourse mark-ers in spoken dialogue.
In dialogue, discourse markers play an importantrole in establishing boundaries between dialogue units and in indicating thecommunicative functions of such units (see e.g.
[14], [9], [10]).157(1) A1: it ties you on in terms of the technologies and the complexity that you wantA2: like for example voice recognitionA3: because that you might need to power a microphone and other thingsA4: so thats one constraint thereIn example (1) discourse markers are used by the speaker to indicate thesteps in a sequence of arguments: he makes a statement (Inform); then heprovides an example for this statement (Inform Exemplify); he justifies hischoice (Inform Justification); and he draws a conclusion (Inform Conclude).An important goal of studies of dialogue structure is to explore possi-ble meanings and functions of discourse markers in dialogue as reflected inobservable utterance features (prosodic, syntactic, lexical), to enable theirsuccessful recognition and classification.One aspect of the meaning of discourse markers is that they may notonly have a variety of semantic functions, but that they may also have sev-eral functions simultaneously ?
their multifunctionality (see [11], [1], [15]among others).
This paper introduces a formal and systematic, empirically-based approach to the study of the multifunctionality of discourse markers.We show how the multifunctionality of discourse markers can be describedsystematically by using a multidimensional model of the interpretation ofcommunicative behaviour in dialogue (Section 2).
Section 3 introduces theanalysed data and features.
We illustrate the multifunctionality of discoursemarkers in some detail for the example of and, as one of the most frequentlyused and ambiguous dialogue markers.
We provide the results of statisti-cal and machine-learning experiments on the automatic recognizability ofdiscourse marker meanings, and give an overview of the observed multifunc-tionality of markers that occur in our data (Section 4).
Conclusions andperspectives for further research are outlined in the final Section 5.2 The notion of multifunctionalityThe multifunctionality of discourse markers has been described first bySchiffrin in [15].
She distinguishes between (1) ideational structure, withrelations between propositions, e.g.
a cohesion relation, a topic relation ora functional relation; (2) action structure, which describes the organisationand constraints on the use of speech acts; (3) exchange structure, which is?the outcome of decision procedures by which speakers alternate sequentialroles and define those alternations in relation to each other?.
Schiffrin arguesthat discourse markers may simultaneously have roles within each of thesethree structures, e.g.
the discourse marker and may ?coordinate ideas?
and158?continue a speaker?s action?.
However, the multifunctionality of discoursemarkers in this study escaped extensive and formal description.Hovy in [11] states that each discourse marker signals either (1) a ?seman-tic interpropositional relation?, e.g.
CAUSE or PART-OF, or (2) ?interper-sonal intentions?
(a communicative purpose of an utterance), e.g.
to informsomeone about a fact, or to instruct someone to do something, or (3) both.Moreover, according to Hovy each discourse marker ?articulates a rhetoricalrelation?, such as Elaboration or Presentational-Sequence.
Hovy argues thatthere are several parallel simultaneous structures that underlie coherent dis-course and argues that an adequate description of discourse requires at leastfour distinct structural analyses: semantic, interpersonal/goal-oriented, at-tentional/thematic, and rhetorical.This approach seems to apply very well to the analysis of the meaningof discourse markers in dialogue.
Discourse markers may have various com-municative purposes (also called communicative functions) in dialogue withrespect to the underlying task or goal, attention, topic or arguments, turnmanagement, etc.
We only want to add that discourse markers may havevarious communicative functions simultaneously.
For example, if the speakerwants to provide additional or more detailed information about somethingthat he mentioned before, he can signal the relation between the two piecesof information by using discourse markers such as ?and?, ?also?, ?moreover?.The discourse marker signals an elaboration relation and the communica-tive purpose of the whole utterance, which contains the discourse marker, isInform with the rhetorical function Elaborate.
Additionally, the discoursemarker is used here to show that the speaker wishes to continue in thespeaker role (Turn Keep function).In our analysis by ?multifunctionality?
we mean the phenomenon of hav-ing multiple meanings simultaneously, which are related to the multiplepurposes that an utterance may have in communication.There are different forms of multifunctionality.
Allwood in [1] claims thatif an utterance is multifunctional, ?its multifunctionality can be sequentialand simultaneous?.
Bunt in [5] examines this claim using empirical data fromseveral dialogue annotation experiments and concludes that sequential mul-tifunctionality disappears if we take sufficiently fine-grained dialogue unitsinto account (so-called ?functional segments?
rather than turns).
A func-tional segment is defined as ?a smallest(possibly discontinuous) stretch ofcommunicative behaviour that has one or more communicative functions?([8]).
It was shown in [5] that even if we consider fine-grained units ofcommunicative behaviour we do not get rid of simultaneous multifunction-ality; and the minimum number of functions that one segment may have159in dialogue is 1.3 on average.
The number of functions grows rapidly if wetake forms of multifunctionality into account such as implicated and entailedfunctions, feedback levels, and indirect functions.It is noticed in [5] that pragmatically implicated functions, e.g.
an ex-pression of thanks also expressing positive feedback, are a true source ofmultifunctionality.
Logically entailed functions, such as the positive feed-back on understanding that is entailed by answering a question or acceptingan offer, can also be important.
For the purpose of this study, however,we left such forms of multifunctionality out of consideration.
This has tworeasons.
First, we believe that discourse markers as such do not signal anyimplicated or entailed functions.
Second, since we want to operate on thebasis of observable utterance features (prosodic and linguistic) that can beextracted automatically from raw data, to investigate how dialogue partic-ipants express and recognise the intended and explicitly indicated multiplefunctions of dialogue utterances.In the next section we first describe the relevant aspects of the semanticframework that we will use to study the multiple meanings of discoursemarkers in dialogue in a systematic fashion.3 Semantic frameworkThe semantic framework of Dynamic Interpretation Theory (DIT, [3]) takesa multidimensional view on dialogue, in the sense that it views participa-tion in a dialogue as being engaged in several activities simultaneously, suchas trying to advance a task that motivates the dialogue, providing commu-nicative feedback, taking turns, and so on.
Communicative behaviour isinterpreted in terms of bundles of update operations on participants?
infor-mation states (or ?contexts?
); such update operations consist of a semantic(referential, propositional, or action-related) content and a communicativefunction, which specifies what an addressee is supposed to do with the se-mantic content in order to update his information state [5].
Consider thefollowing dialogue fragment:(2) A1: that?s why i think the option of the kinetic thingA2: which basically means as long as you shake it like an automatic watchD1: -1.781butD2: are people gonna wanna shake their movie controller?1Here and further in text figures given in brackets indicate the token duration in sec-onds; figures without brackets indicate silence pauses between tokens in seconds.160Utterance (D1) is multifunctional, since it indicates that (1) the speakerwants to have the turn by interrupting the previous speaker (signalled by?but?
overlapping A3); (2) the speaker interpreted and evaluated the utter-ances A1 and A2 successfully; and (3) the speaker encountered a problemin applying the information from the previous utterances (due to the ad-versative meaning of ?but? )
?
he probably does not agree with the previousclaim or needs some clarification, which is indeed expressed in D2.
Thus,as the example shows, the various functions of ?but?
are related to different?dimensions?
of the interaction [4], such as the allocation of the speaker roleand the processing of previous utterances.In DIT the information which can be addressed is divided into: the do-main or task (Task), feedback on the processing of previous utterances bythe speaker (Auto-feedback) or by other interlocutors (Allo-feedback), manag-ing difficulties in the speaker?s utterance production (Own-CommunicationManagement) or that of other interlocutors (Partner Communication Man-agement), the speaker?s need for time to continue the dialogue (Time Man-agement), establishing and maintaining contact (Contact Management), theallocation of the next turn (Turn Management), the way the speaker isplanning to structure the dialogue (Dialogue Structuring), and attention forsocial aspects of the interaction (Social Obligations Management).It was observed in DIT that some utterances have communicative func-tions that can be applied to any kind of semantic content (general-purpose(GP) functions).
In particular, they can be applied not only to contentinformation concerning a certain task or domain, but also to informationconcerning the communication, e.g.
an Inform like ?First of all we need todiscuss the project finances?
is used to introduce a new topic into the dis-cussion.
Dimension-specific (DS) functions, by contrast, are applicable onlyto information concerned with a specific dimension of communication, e.g.using the utterance ?Let me see?
the speaker indicates that he needs sometime to do something in preparation of continuing the dialogue (Stallingact).
The phenomenon of general-purpose functions means that, when astretch of communicative behaviour has a GP function, its full functionalcharacterization requires in addition also the specification of the dimensionthat is addressed, so we get characterizations like Feedback Question andTask Suggestion.We found that discourse markers are used (i) as ?preface?
of a range of GPfunctions, in particular Informs of various rhetorical kinds; (ii) as indicatorsof dialogue acts with a DS function, e.g.
of topic shifts; and (iii) as full-blown dialogue acts (without explicit semantic content), e.g.
as a Turn Takeact.
This means that discourse markers can have two kinds of meanings:161as a dialogue act, i.e.
as a context update operator, and as an elementthat contributes to the determination of the communicative function of adialogue act with either a GP- or a DS-function.The DIT framework supports a ?multidimensional?
semantics by relatingcontext update operators to different compartments of structured contextmodels which include, besides information states of the usual kind (beliefsand goals related to a task domain), also a dialogue history, informationabout the agent?s processing state, beliefs about dialogue partners?
process-ing states, information and goals concerning the allocation of turns, and soon, relating to the various ?dimensions?
that dialogue acts belong to.
Theinterpretation of a multifunctional stretch of communicative behaviour cor-responds to updating the context models of the communicating agents inmultiple ways, combining the effects of each of the component functions.For example:(3) B1: what anybody wants to add about what they don?t like about remote controlsA1:0.48 and you keep losing themSince it answers B?s Set-Question B1, utterance A1, which includes thediscourse marker and, updates the context model of participant B with theinformation that2: (1) A believes that B wants to know which elements of agiven set have a given property ; (2) A believes that B believes that A knowswhich elements of that set have that property ; (3) A believes to know whichelements of that set have that property ; and (4) A believes that B made theturn available.
Thus, the simultaneous performance of the turn managementand feedback acts through the use of A1, in particular of and, constitutesthe multidimensional interpretation of what A says.4 Data analysis and classification experiments4.1 Corpus data and automatically extracted featuresFor the empirical semantic analysis of discourse markers we selected threemeetings from the AMI meeting corpus.3Our data contain 17,335 wordswhich form 3,897 functional segments with an average length of 4.4 words.Average turn length is 7.7 segments.All the features that we used were low-level features, automatically ex-tracted both from the transcriptions and from sound files.
In this respectour analysis differs from those where manually labelled intonational informa-tion is used such as tones and pitch accents ([10]), or automatically derived2For a formal representation of updates in participants?
information state see [13].3A?ugmented M?ulti-party I?nteraction (http://www.amiproject.org/).162syntactic information ([14], [16]) such as parts-of-speech.
Our aim was todiscover how well a classifier can perform if no other external knowledgesources are available and only the output of the speech recogniser is acces-sible.
The features relate to prosody, word occurrence, and collocations.Prosodic features were minimum, maximum, mean, and standard devia-tion of pitch (F0 in Hz), energy (RMS), voicing (fraction of locally unvoicedframes and number of voice breaks), speaking rate (number of syllables persecond) and segment duration.4Word occurrence is represented by a bag-of-words vector5indicating the presence or absence of words in the segment.As lexical features bi- and trigram models were constructed.4.2 Dialogue act tagset and notes on segmentationThe training data was manually annotated using the DIT++annotationscheme.6The DIT++taxonomy is multilayered and multidimensional, witha conceptually well-defined set of communicative functions, supporting dia-logue act annotation in multiple dimensions simultaneously.The utterances were segmented per dimension following the approach in[8], which leads to a more accurate analysis of human communication thanthe segmentation of dialogue in single sequences of utterances, since utter-ances may contain functional ?holes?
due to protractions, repairs, restarts,etcetera.
Moreover, participants may interrupt each other and talk simul-taneously, and utterances may also spread over several turns.
A meaningfulunit in this approach is a functional segment as defined in Section 3.
Anexample of per-dimension segmentation is given in Figure (1).4.3 Results: multifunctionality of discourse markersWe do not aim in this paper to discuss all discourse markers which occur inour corpus data, we rather demonstrate the minimal multifunctionality ofthe most frequently used discourse markers in dialogue and discuss the caseof and in more detail.Table 1 lists some discourse markers (DMs) identified in the studied cor-pus with their absolute frequency in the corpus, gives an overview of their4We examined both raw and normalized versions of these features.
Speaker-normalizedfeatures were normalized by computing z-scores (z = (X- mean)/standard deviation),where mean and standard deviation were calculated from all functional segments producedby the same speaker in the dialogues.
We also used normalizations by the first and priorspeaker turn.5With a size of 1,640 entries.6For more information about the tagset and the dimensions that are distinguished,please visit: http://dit.uvt.nl/163Figure 1: Example of per-dimension segmentation.observed mutlifunctionality by indicating the average number of commu-nicative functions in our dialogues, and lists the observed communicativefunctions.
Note that all DMs serve more than one communicative func-Table 1: Distribution and observed multifunctionality of discourse markers.tion.
And is the most multifunctional discourse marker in our corpus andbecause the least multifunctional one.
Because mostly prefaces Informs withthe rhetorical functions Justify or Explain, and only in 2.4% of all cases isused to simultaneously perform Turn Keeping and Stalling acts.
All dis-course markers, except ?you know?, preface GP functions in Task or otherdimensions (often in Discourse Structuring and Feedback) and may perform164dialogue acts addressing other dimensions simultaneously, as we will illus-trate for and below.
This pattern is observed for 50.7% of all studied DMs.A discourse marker may also perform full-fledged dialogue acts addressingmore than one dimension simultaneously (as in example 2).
This is often thecase for Turn Management in combination with Feedback, Time Manage-ment, Discourse Structuring and Own Communication Management (27.7%of all discourse markers are observed to be used in this way).
It was noticedthat at most 3 dialogue acts are performed by one discourse marker in agiven context, e.g.
feedback, turn and time management acts.
A third pat-tern of DM use, which was observed in 18.2% of cases, is as a single dialogueact, e.g.
a turn taking act or a feedback act.
In the rest (3.4%) discoursemarkers are part of general purpose functions and do not perform a dialogueact on their own.And is one of the most frequently used discourse markers in our cor-pus.
The corpus contained 470 occurrences of and, where about 54.5% isnot used as a discourse marker and the rest of 45.5% as discourse marker.Differentiating between and as non-DM and DM is important for segmenta-tion purposes.
Used in clause-initial position or as an autonomous segment,and as DM so to speak brackets segments and helps define their boundaries.We investigated the prosodic and durational differences, and differences insurrounding material between the two basic uses of and, and performedmachine-learning recognition experiments.Experiments using the RIPPER rule inducer [7] showed that the two usesof and are well recognized automatically.
An accuracy score of 80.6% wasobtained on unsegmented data.
Baseline score, in this case the percentageof the most frequent class (non-DMs), was 54.5%.
There are significantmean differences (p < .05) for both raw and speaker-normalized features interms of duration (DMs are almost twice as long as non-DMs: 289-327msand 173-217ms respectively); initial pause (there is no or a negligible smallpause before non-DMs, and initial pauses before DMs range between 59 and228ms); mean pitch (and as DM has higher mean pitch: > 12Hz).
Precedingand following tokens as features also have high information gain.
And asDM is often so to speak backed up between um, uh, so, then and also.As a discourse marker, and may have various and multiple communica-tive functions (see Table 1).
And may signal that the upcoming speech isadding new information or used in explanatory sequences [15], like InformExplain in (4):(4) A1: like you said a problem was how many components are in thereA2: um (0.4)A3: 0.28 and (0.12) the power is basically a factor of that165A4: 0.55 um (0.47) and (0.32) this affects you in terms of the size of your deviceA5: 0.59 um (0.26) and (0.16) that would have some impactAnd can also mark the transition from one discussion topic to anotherby introducing topic shifts, for example:(5) A1: you could group plastic and rubber, but it might be easier to use oneD1: -0.29 mm-hmmA2: 0.74 um (0.32)and (0.2) the other components are logic chipsTable 2: Overview of accuracy on the base-line (BL) and the classifier on the predictionof communicative functions of ?and?
in differ-ent dimensions obtained using 10-fold cross-validation experiments.
?
significant at p <.05, one-tailed z-test.In 57% of all cases and is usedas a marker of speaker contin-uation (turn keeping) as illus-trated in A3, A4 and A5 in (4).And in A2 in (5) also has a pos-itive allo-feedback function re-lated to the utterance D1.We trained the RIPPER rule in-ducer to automatically classifythe communicative functions ofand in several dimensions.
Theresults are shown in Table 2.The classifier outperforms thebaseline, which for all tasks isthe percentage of the majorityclass (e.g.
Elaboration in Task),except for the classification of Discourse Structuring and Partner Commu-nication Management functions, for which there were not enough instancesin the training set.As for features, for the prediction of the Task dimension, the bag-of-words feature representing word occurrence in the segment and word col-location features were important.
For example, Inform Elaborate is oftensignalled by focusing adverbs like especially, mainly, additionally, etc, orcontains relative pronouns like who, whose, which and that.
The pres-ence of some expressions of comparision was noted in Exemplifications,such as one of, rather than, like,comparing, by contrast, similar, etc.
Themost frequent words that occurred in Suggestions were maybe, might, bet-ter, should, could/can, probably and let?s; and Discourse Structuring func-tions are marked by next, then, other and further.
For all other dimensionsprosodic features were more important than the surrounding lexical mate-rial.
For example, for Turn Management functions duration, initial pause166and mean pitch are key features.
Important is also the information aboutthe current and the previous speaker.
Speaker switch is an important signof and in the Auto-Feedback dimension.
Stallings were characterized by along duration (about 585ms) and long initial pause (365ms), and a pauseafter (100ms).
They also often were preceded and followed by um and uh.5 Conclusions and future workTo summarize we can conclude that discourse markers are truly multifunc-tional dialogue units.
The analysis of discourse markers as important instru-ments for the understanding of dialogue and its computational modelling canonly benefit from a multidimensional approach to the exploration of theircomplex meaning.We showed that discourse markers may simultaneously serve several com-municative functions in different dimensions.
They are good indicators of(plentiful) general-purpose communicative functions, such as informs, elab-orations of various kinds, suggestions, warnings, disagreements, etc., mostlyin relation to the task that underlies the dialogue, but they are also fre-quently used to create or maintain the conditions for successful interaction(indicating dialogue control acts).
Our investigations showed that discoursemarkers may have communicative functions in all the dimensions distin-guished in DIT, except perhaps in Social Obligations Management.
Wenoted the importance of discourse markers for segmenting dialogue intomeaningful units, since they so to speak bracket functional segments.
Binaryautomatic classification of DM vs non-DM was successfully performed.
Theautomatic recognition of the various and multiple communicative functionsof discourse markers is even more important.
Our automatic classificationexperiments showed that machine learning techniques can be profitably usedin the automatic recognition of multiple meanings of dialogue markers.For future work, we intend to extend the studies reported here in twodirections.
First, we plan to collect more annotated data containing a richerset of discourse markers and sufficient numbers of instances per class, sothat we may increase the accuracy of the classifier for further evaluationof our model on unmarked examples (see [16]).
Furthermore, since AMImeetings are face-to-face interactions and video recordings are available, weplan to consider other modalities besides speech audio, e.g.
hand and headgestures, for better understanding of discourse markers functions in supportof adequate computational dialogue modelling.167AcknowledgmentsThis research was conducted within the project ?Multidimensional DialogueModelling?, sponsored by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Re-search (NWO), under grant reference 017.003.090.References[1] Allwood, J.
(1992).
On dialogue cohesion.
Gothenburg Papers in Theoretical Lin-guistics 65.
Gothenburg University, Department of Linguistics.
[2] Allwood, J.
(2000).
An activity-based approach to pragmatics.
H. Bunt and W.
Black(eds.)
Abduction, Belief and Context in Dialogue, Amsterdam: Benjamin, pp.47-81.
[3] Bunt, H. (2000).
Dynamic Interpretation and Dialogue Theory.
M.M.
Taylor, D.G.Bouwhuis and F. Neel (eds.)
The Structure of Multimodal Dialogue, Vol 2., Ams-terdam: John Benjamins, pp.
139?166.
[4] Bunt, H. (2006).
Dimensions in Dialogue Act Annotation.
Proceedings LREC 2006,Genova.
[5] Bunt, H. (2007).
Multifunctionality and Multidimensional Dialogue Act Annotation.E.
Ahlsen et al (ed.)
Communication - Action - Meaning.
Gothenburg, pp.
237 ?259.
[6] Cohen, R. (1984).
A computational theory of the function of clue words in argumentunderstanding.
Coling-ACL 1984, Standford, pp.
251?258.
[7] Cohen, W.W. (1995).
Fast effective rule induction.
In Proceedings of the 12th Inter-national Conference on Machine Learning (ICML?95), pp.
115?123.
[8] Geertzen, J. Petukhova, V. and Harry Bunt.
(2007).
A Multidimensional Approachto Utterance Segmentation and Dialogue Act Classification.
Proceedings of the 8thSIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, Antwerp, pp.
140?149.
[9] Heeman, P.A.
and Allen, J.F.
(1999).
Speech repairs, intonational phrases and dis-course markers: Modelling speakers utterances in spoken dialogue.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3): 1?45.
[10] Hirschberg, J. and Litman, D. (1993).
Empirical studies on the disambiguqtion ofcue phrases.
Computational Linguistics, 25(4): 501?530.
[11] Hovy, E.H. (1995).
The multifunctionality of discourse markers.
Proceedings of theWorkshop on Discourse Markers, Egmond-aan-Zee, The Nertherlands.
[12] Mann, W. and Thompson, S. (1988).
Rhetorical structure theory: toward a functionaltheory of text organisation.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
[13] Morante, R. (2007).
Computing Meaning in Interaction.
PhD Thesis, Tilburg Uni-versity.
[14] Popescu-Belis, A. and Zufferey, S. (2006).
Automatic identification of discoursemarkers in multiparty dialogues.
Working paper 65, ISSCO, University of Geneva.
[15] Schiffrin, D. (1987).
Discourse Markers.
Cambridge: University Press.
[16] Sporleder, C. and Lascarides, A.
(2008).
Using Automatically Labelled Examples toClassify Rhetorical Relations: An Assessment.
Natural Language Engineering, 14.03:369?416.168
