Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 97?105,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Automatic Generation of Gene SummaryFeng Jin Minlie HuangDept.
Computer Science and Technology Dept.
Computer Science and TechnologyTsinghua University Tsinghua UniversityBeijing 100084, China Beijing 100084, Chinajinfengfeng@gmail.com aihuang@tsinghua.edu.cnZhiyong Lu Xiaoyan ZhuNational Center for Biotechnology Information Dept.
Computer Science and TechnologyNational Library of Medicine Tsinghua UniversityBethesda, 20894, USA Beijing 100084, Chinaluzh@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov zxy-dcs@tsinghua.edu.cnAbstractIn this paper we present an extractive system that au-tomatically generates gene summaries from the biomed-ical literature.
The proposed text summarization systemselects and ranks sentences from multiple MEDLINEabstracts by exploiting gene-specific information andsimilarity relationships between sentences.
We evaluateour system on a large dataset of 7,294 human genes and187,628 MEDLINE abstracts using Recall-OrientedUnderstudy for Gisting Evaluation (ROUGE), a widelyused automatic evaluation metric in the text summariza-tion community.
Two baseline methods are used forcomparison.
Experimental results show that our systemsignificantly outperforms the other two methods withregard to all ROUGE metrics.
A demo website of oursystem is freely accessible athttp://60.195.250.72/onbires/summary.jsp.1 IntroductionEntrez Gene is a database for gene-centric infor-mation maintained at the National Center for Bio-technology Information (NCBI).
It includes genesfrom completely sequenced genomes (e.g.
Homosapiens).
An important part of a gene record is thesummary field (shown in Table 1), which is a smallpiece of text that provides a quick synopsis of whatis known about the gene, the function of its en-coded protein or RNA products, disease associa-tions, genetic interactions, etc.
The summary field,when available, can help biologists to understandthe target gene quickly by compressing a hugeamount of knowledge from many papers to a smallpiece of text.
At present, gene summaries are gen-erated manually by the National Library of Medi-cine (NLM) curators, a time- and labor-intensiveprocess.
A previous study has concluded that ma-nual curation is not sufficient for annotation of ge-nomic databases (Baumgartner et al, 2007).Indeed, of the 5 million genes currently in EntrezGene, only about 20,000 genes have a correspond-ing summary.
Even in humans, arguably the mostimportant species, the coverage is modest: only 26%of human genes are curated in this regard.
The goalof this work is to develop and evaluate computa-tional techniques towards automatic generation ofgene summaries.To this end, we developed a text summarizationsystem that takes as input MEDLINE documentsrelated to a given target gene and outputs a smallset of genic information rich sentences.
Specifical-ly, it first preprocesses and filters sentences that do97Gene Number  ofAbstractsGO terms Human-writtenSummaryEFEMP1 26 calcium ion bindingprotein bindingextracellular regionproteinaceous extracellu-lar matrixThis gene spans approximately 18 kb of genomic DNA and consists of 12 ex-ons.
Alternative splice patterns in the 5\' UTR result in three transcript variantsencoding the same extracellular matrix protein.
Mutations in this gene are asso-ciated with Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy.IL20RA 15 blood coagulationreceptor activityintegral to membranemembraneThe protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for interleukin 20 (IL20), a cyto-kine that may be involved in epidermal function.
The receptor of IL20 is a hete-rodimeric receptor complex consisting of this protein and interleukin 20receptor beta (IL20B).
This gene and IL20B are highly expressed in skin.
Theexpression of both genes is found to be upregulated in Psoriasis.Table1.
Two examples of human-written gene summariesnot include enough informative words for genesummaries.
Next, the remaining sentences areranked by the sum of two individual scores: a) anauthority score from a lexical PageRank algorithm(Erkan and Radev, 2004) and b) a similarity scorebetween the sentence and the Gene Ontology (GO)terms with which the gene is annotated (To date,over 190,000 genes have two or more associatedGO terms).
Finally, redundant sentences are re-moved and top ranked sentences are nominated forthe target gene.In order to evaluate our system, we assembled agold standard dataset consisting of handwrittensummaries for 7,294 human genes and conductedan intrinsic evaluation by measuring the amount ofoverlap between the machine-selected sentencesand human-written summaries.
Our metric for theevaluation was ROUGE1, a widely used intrinsicsummarization evaluation metric.2 Related WorkSummarization systems aim to extract salient textfragments, especially sentences, from the originaldocuments to form a summary.
A number of me-thods for sentence scoring and ranking have beendeveloped.
Approaches based on sentence position(Edmundson, 1969), cue phrase (McKeown andRadev, 1995), word frequency (Teufel and Moens,1997), and discourse segmentation (Boguraev andKennedy, 1997) have been reported.
Radev et al(Radev et al, 2004) developed an extractive multi-document summarizer, MEAD, which extracts asummary from multiple documents based on thedocument cluster centroid, position and first-sentence overlap.
Recently, graph-based rankingmethods, such as LexPageRank (Erkan and Radev,2004) and TextRank (Mihalcea and Tarau, 2004),1 http://haydn.isi.edu/ROUGE/have been proposed for multi-document summari-zation.
Similar to the original PageRank algorithm,these methods make use of similarity relationshipsbetween sentences and then rank sentences accord-ing to the ?votes?
or ?recommendations?
fromtheir neighboring sentences.Lin and Hovy (2000) first introduced topic sig-natures which are topic relevant terms for summa-rization.
Afterwards, this technique wassuccessfully used in a number of summarizationsystems (Hickl et al, 2007, Gupta and Nenkova etal., 2007).
In order to improve sentence selection,we adopted the idea in a similar way to identifyterms that tend to appear frequently in gene sum-maries and subsequently filter sentences that in-clude none or few such terms.Compared with newswire document summariza-tion, much less attention has been paid to summa-rizing MEDLINE documents for genic information.Ling et al (Ling et al, 2006 and 2007) presentedan automatic gene summary generation system thatconstructs a summary based on six aspects of agene, such as gene products, mutant phenotype, etc.In their system, sentences were ranked accordingto a) the relevance to each category (namely theaspect), b) the relevance to the document wherethey are from; and c) the position where sentencesare located.
Although the system performed wellon a small group of genes (10~20 genes) from Fly-base, their method relied heavily on high-qualitytraining data that is often hard to obtain in practice.Yang et al reported a system (Yang et al, 2007and 2009) that produces gene summaries by focus-ing on gene sets from microarray experiments.Their system first clustered gene set into functionalrelated groups based on free text, Medical SubjectHeadings (MeSH?)
and Gene Ontology (GO) fea-tures.
Then, an extractive summary was generatedfor each gene following the Edmundson paradigm98(Edmundson, 1969).
Yang et al also presentedevaluation results based on human ratings of eightgene summaries.Another related work is the second task of TextREtrieval Conference 2  (TREC) 2003 GenomicsTrack.
Participants in the track were required toextract GeneRIFs from MEDLINE abstracts(Hersh and Bhupatiraju, 2003).
Many teams ap-proached the task as a sentence classification prob-lem using GeneRIFs in the Entrez database astraining data (Bhalotia et al, 2003; Jelier et al,2003).
This task has also been approached as a sin-gle document summarization problem (Lu et al,2006).The gene summarization work presented herediffers from the TREC task in that it deals withmultiple documents.
In contrast to the previouslydescribed systems for gene summarization, ourapproach has three novel features.
First, we areable to summarize all aspects of gene-specific in-formation as opposed to a limited number of prede-termined aspects.
Second, we exploit a lexicalPageRank algorithm to establish similarity rela-tionships between sentences.
The importance of asentence is based not only on the sentence itself,but also on its neighbors in a graph representation.Finally, we conducted an intrinsic evaluation on alarge publicly available dataset.
The gold standardassembled in this work makes it possible for com-parisons between different gene summarizationsystems without human judgments.3 MethodTo determine if a sentence is extract worthy, weconsider three different aspects: (1) the number ofsalient or informative words that are frequentlyused by human curators for writing gene summa-ries; (2) the relative importance of a sentence to beincluded in a gene summary; (3) the gene-specificinformation that is unique between different genes.Specifically, we look for signature terms inhandwritten summaries for the first aspect.
Ideally,computer generated summaries should resemblehandwritten summaries.
Thus the terms used byhuman curators should also occur frequently inautomatically generated summaries.
In this regard,we use a method similar to Lin and Hovy (2000) toidentify signature terms and subsequently use them2 http://ir.ohsu.edu/genomics/to discard sentences that contain none or few suchterms.
For the second aspect, we adopt a lexicalPageRank method to compute the sentence impor-tance with a graph representation.
For the last as-pect, we treat each gene as having its ownproperties that distinguish it from others.
To reflectsuch individual differences in the machine-generated summaries, we exploit a gene?s GO an-notations as a surrogate for its unique propertiesand look for their occurrence in abstract sentences.Our gene summarization system consists ofthree components: a preprocessing module, a sen-tence ranking module, and a redundancy removaland summary generation module.
Given a targetgene, the preprocessing module retrieves corres-ponding MEDLINE abstracts and GO terms ac-cording to the gene2pubmed and gene2go dataprovided by Entrez Gene.
Then the abstracts aresplit into sentences by the MEDLINE sentencesplitter in the LingPipe3 toolkit.
The sentence rank-ing module takes these as input and first filters outsome non-informative sentences.
The remainingsentences are then scored according to a linearcombination of the PageRank score and GO relev-ance score.
Finally, a gene summary is generatedafter redundant sentences are removed.
The systemis illustrated in Figure 1 and is described in moredetail in the following sections.Figure 1.
System overview3.1 Signature Terms ExtractionThere are signature terms for different topic texts(Lin and Hovy, 2000).
For example, terms such aseat, menu and fork that occur frequently in a cor-pus may signify that the corpus is likely to be3 http://alias-i.com/lingpipe/AbstractsSentence SegmentationTokenizationStemmingSignature FilteringPageRank ScoringGO ScoringRedundancy RemovalGO Terms Summary99about cooking or restaurants.
Similarly, there aresignature terms for gene summaries.We use the Pearson?s chi-square test (Manningand Sch?tze, 1999) to extract topic signature termsfrom a set of handwritten summaries by comparingthe occurrence of terms in the handwritten summa-ries with that of randomly selected MEDLINE ab-stracts.
Let R denote the set of handwrittensummaries and R denote the set of randomly se-lected abstracts from MEDLINE.
The null hypo-thesis and alternative hypothesis are as follows:0H : ( | ) ( | )i iP t R p P t R= = 1 1 2H : ( | ) ( | )i iP t R p p P t R= ?
= The null hypothesis says that the term it appearsin R and in R with an equal probability and it isindependent from R .
In contrast, the alternativehypothesis says that the term it is correlated withR .
We construct the following 2-by-2 contingencytable:R  Rit  11O  12Oit  21O  22OTable 2.
Contingency table for the chi-square test.where11O : the frequency of term it occurring in R ;12O : the frequency of it occurring in R ;21O  : the frequency of term i it t? occurring in R ;22O :  the frequency of it in R .Then the Pearson?s chi-square statistic is computedby222, 1( )ij iji j ijO EXE=?=?where ijO is the observed frequency and ijE is theexpected frequency.In our experiments, the significance level is setto 0.001, thus the corresponding chi-square valueis 10.83.
Terms with 2X value above 10.83 wouldbe selected as signature terms.
In total, we obtained1,169 unigram terms.
The top ranked (by 2X value)signature terms are listed in Table 3.
Given the setof signature terms, sentences containing less than 3signature terms are discarded.
This parameter wasdetermined empirically during the system devel-opment.proteingeneencodefamilytranscriptionmembervariantdomainsplicesubunitreceptorisoformalternativebindinvolveTable 3.
A sample of unigram topic signature terms.3.2 Lexical PageRank ScoringThe lexical PageRank algorithm makes use of thesimilarity between sentences and ranks them byhow similar a sentence is to all other sentences.
Itoriginates from the original PageRank algorithm(Page et al, 1998) that is based on the followingtwo hypotheses:(1) A web page is important if it is linked by manyother pages.
(2) A web page is important if it is linked by im-portant pages.The algorithm views the entire internet as a largegraph in which a web page is a vertex and a di-rected edge is connected according to the linkage.The salience of a vertex can be computed by a ran-dom walk on the graph.
Such graph-based methodshave been widely adapted to such Natural Lan-guage Processing (NLP) problems as text summa-rization and word sense disambiguation.
Theadvantage of such graph-based methods is obvious:the importance of a vertex is not only decided byitself, but also by its neighbors in a graph represen-tation.
The random walk on a graph can implymore global dependence than other methods.
OurPageRank scoring method consists of two steps:constructing the sentence graph and computing thesalience score for each vertex of the graph.Let { |1 }iS s i N= ?
?
be the sentence collec-tion containing all the sentences to be summarized.According to the vector space model (Salton et al,1975), each sentence is  can be represented by avector isGwith each component being the weight ofa term in is .
The weight associated with a term wis calculated by ( )* ( )tf w isf w , where ( )tf w is thefrequency of the term w in sentence is and ( )isf w100is the inverse sentence frequency 4  of term w :( ) 1 log( / )wisf w N n= + , where N is the totalnumber of sentences in S  and wn is the number ofsentences containing w .The similarity score be-tween two sentences is computed using the innerproduct of the corresponding sentence vectors, asfollows:( , )|| || || ||i ji ji js ssim s ss s?=?G GG GTaking each sentence as a vertex, and the simi-larity score as the weight of the edge between twosentences, a sentence graph is constructed.
Thegraph is fully connected and undirected becausethe similarity score is symmetric.The sentence graph can be modeled by an adja-cency matrix M , in which each element corres-ponds to the weight of an edge in the graph.
Thus[ ]ij N NM ?=M is defined as:,|| || || ||0,i ji jijs sif i js sMotherwise????
?= ??
?G GG GWe normalize the row sum of matrix M  in or-der to assure it is a stochastic matrix such that thePageRank iteration algorithm is applicable.
Thenormalized matrix is:1 1, 00,N Nij ij ijj jijM M if MMotherwise= =??
?= ????
? .Using the normalized adjacency matrix, the sa-lience score of a sentence is is computed in aniterative manner:1(1 )( ) ( )Ni j jijdscore s d score s MN=?= ?
?
+?
where d is a damping factor that is typically be-tween 0.8 and 0.9 (Page et al, 1998).If we use a column vector p to denote the sa-lience scores of all the sentences in S , the aboveequation can be written in a matrix form as follows:[ (1 ) ]Tp d d p= ?
+ ?
?
?M U4 Isf is equivalent to idf if we view each sentence as a docu-ment.where U is a square matrix with all elements beingequal to 1/ N .
The component (1 )d?
?U can beconsidered as a smoothing term which adds a smallprobability for a random walker to jump from thecurrent vertex to any vertex in the graph.
Thisguarantees that the stochastic transition matrix foriteration is irreducible and aperiodic.
Therefore theiteration can converge to a stable state.In our implementation, the damping factor d isset to 0.85 as in the PageRank algorithm (Page etal., 1998).
The column vector p is initialized withrandom values between 0 and 1.
After the algo-rithm converges, each component in the columnvector p corresponds to the salience score of thecorresponding sentence.
This score is combinedwith the GO relevance score to rank sentences.3.3 GO Relevance ScoringUp to this point, our system considers only gene-independent features, in both sentence filtering andPageRank-based sentence scoring.
These featuresare universal across different genes.
However, eachgene is unique because of its own functional andstructural properties.
Thus we seek to includegene-specific features in this next step.The GO annotations provide one kind of gene-specific information and have been shown to beuseful for selecting GeneRIF candidates (Lu et al,2006).
A gene?s GO annotations include descrip-tions in three aspects: molecular function; biologi-cal process; and cellular component.
For example,the human gene AANAT (gene ID 15 in EntrezGene) is annotated with the GO terms in Table 4.GO ID GO termGO:0004059 aralkylamine N-acetyltransferase activi-tyGO:0007623 circadian rhythmGO:0008152 metabolic processGO:0008415 acyltransferase activityGO:0016740 transferase activityTable 4.
GO terms for gene AANATThe GO relevance score is computed as follows:first, the GO terms and the sentences are bothstemmed and stopwords are removed.
For example,the GO terms in Table 4 are processed into a set ofstemmed words: aralkylamin, N, acetyltransferas,activ, circadian, rhythm, metabol, process, acyl-transferas and transferas.101Second, the total number of occurrence of theGO terms appearing in a sentence is counted.
Fi-nally, the GO relevance score is computed as theratio of the total occurrence to the sentence length.The entire process can be illustrated by the follow-ing pseudo codes:1 tokenize and stem the GO terms;2 tokenize and stem all the sentences, remove stopwords;3 for each sentence is , 1,...,i N=( ) 0iGOScore s =for each word w  in isif w in the GO term set( )iGOScore s ++end ifend for( ) ( ) / ( )i i iGOScore s GOScore s length s=end forwhere ( )ilength s is the number of distinct non-stopwords in is .
For each sentence is , the GO relev-ance score is combined with the PageRank score toget the overall score (?
is a weight parameter be-tween 0 and 1; see Section 4.2 for discussion):( ) ( ) (1 ) ( )i i iscore s PRScore s GOScore s?
?= ?
+ ?
?
.3.4 Redundancy RemovalA good summary contains as much diverse infor-mation as possible for a gene, while with as littleredundancy as possible.
For many well-studiedgenes, there are thousands of relevant papers andmuch information is redundant.
Hence it is neces-sary to remove redundant sentences before produc-ing a final summary.We adopt the diversity penalty method (Zhanget al, 2005; Wan and Xiao, 2007) for redundancyremoval.
The idea is to penalize the candidate sen-tences according to their similarity to the ones al-ready selected.
The process is as follows:(1) Initialize two sets, A ?= ,{ | 1, 2,..., }iB s i K= =  containing all the extractedsentences;(2)  Sort the sentences in B by their scores in des-cending order;(3) Suppose is is the top ranked sentence in B ,move it from B to A .
Then we penalize the re-maining sentences in B as follows:For each sentence js  in B , j i?
( ) ( ) ( , ) ( )j j j i iScore s Score s sim s s Score s?= ?
?
?where 0?
> is the penalty degree factor,( , )j isim s s  is the similarity between is and js .
(4) Repeat steps 2 and 3 until enough sentenceshave been selected.4 Results and Discussion4.1 Evaluation MetricsUnlike the newswire summarization, there are nogold-standard test collections available for evaluat-ing gene summarization systems.
The two previousstudies mentioned in Section 2 both conducted ex-trinsic evaluations by asking human experts to ratesystem outputs.
Although it is important to collectdirect feedback from the users, involving humanexperts makes it difficult to compare differentsummarization systems and to conduct large-scaleevaluations (both studies evaluated nothing but asmall number of genes).
In contrast, we evaluatedour system intrinsically on a much larger datasetconsisting of 7,294 human genes, each with a pre-existing handwritten summary downloaded fromthe NCBI?s FTP site5.The handwritten summaries were used as refer-ence summaries (i.e.
a gold standard) to comparewith the automatically generated summaries.
Al-though the length of reference summaries varies,the majority of these summaries contain 80 to 120words.
To produce a summary of similar length,we decided to select five sentences consisting ofabout 100 words.For the intrinsic evaluation of a large number ofsummaries, we made use of the ROUGE metricsthat has been widely used in automatic evaluationof summarization systems (Lin and Hovy, 2003;Hickl et al, 2007).
It provides a set of evaluationmetrics to measure the quality of a summary bycounting overlapping units such as n-grams orword sequences between the generated summaryand its reference summary.5 ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih.gov/gene/DATA/ASN_BINARY/102We computed three ROUGE measures for eachsummary, namely ROUGE-1 (unigram based),ROUGE-2 (bigram based) and ROUGE-SU4(skip-bigram and unigram) (Lin and Hovy, 2003).Among them, ROUGE-1 has been shown to agreemost with human judgments (Lin and Hovy, 2003).However, as biomedical concepts usually containmore than one word (e.g.
transcription factor),ROUGE-2 and ROUGE-SU4 scores are also im-portant for assessing gene summaries.4.2 Determining parameters for best perfor-manceThe two important parameters in our system ?
thelinear coefficient ?
for the combination of Page-Rank and GO scores and the diversity penalty de-gree factor ?
in redundancy removal ?
areinvestigated in detail on a collection of 100 ran-domly selected genes.
First, by setting ?
to valuesfrom 0 to 1 with an increment of 0.1 while holding?
steady at 0.7, we observed the highest ROUGE-1score when ?
was 0.8 (Figure 2).
This suggeststhat the two scores (i.e.
PageRank and GO score)complement to each other and that the PageRankscore plays a more dominating role in the summedscore.
Next, we varied?
gradually from 0 to 5 withan increment of 0.25 while holding ?
steady at0.75.The highest ROUGE-1 score was achievedwhen?
was 1.3 (Figure 3).
For ROURE-2, the bestperformance was obtained when ?
was 0.7 and ?was 0.5.
In order to balance ROUGE-1 andROUGE-2 scores, we set ?
to 0.75 and ?
to 0.7for the remaining experiments.Figure 2.
The blue line represents the changes inROUGE-1 scores with different values of ?
while ?
isheld at 0.7.Figure 3.
The blue line represents the changes inROUGE-1 scores with different values of ?
while ?
isheld at 0.75.4.3 Comparison with other methodsBecause there are no publicly available gene sum-marization systems, we compared our system withtwo baseline methods.
The first is a well knownpublicly available summarizer - MEAD (Radev etal., 2004).
We adopted the latest version of MEAD3.11 and used the default setting in MEAD thatextracts sentences according to three features: cen-troid, position and length.
The second baseline ex-tracts different sentences randomly from abstracts.Comparison results are shown in the following ta-ble:System ROUGE-1 ROUGE-2 ROUGE-SU4Our System 0.4725 0.1247 0.1828MEAD 0.3890 0.0961 0.1449Random 0.3434 0.0577 0.1091Table 5.
Systems comparison on 7,294 genes.As shown in Table 5, our system significantlyoutperformed the two baseline systems in all threeROUGE measures.
Furthermore, larger perfor-mance gains are observed in ROUGE-2 andROUGE-SU4 than in ROUGE-1.
This is becausemany background words (e.g.
gene, protein andenzyme) also appeared frequently as unigrams inrandomly selected summaries.103Figure 4.
ROUGE-1 score distributionIn Figure 4, we show that the majority of thesummaries have a ROUGE-1 score greater than 0.4.Our further analysis revealed that almost halfsummaries with a low score (smaller than 0.3) ei-ther lacked sufficient relevant abstracts, or the ref-erence summary was too short or too long.
Ineither case, only few overlapping words can befound when comparing the generated gene sum-mary with the reference.
The statistics for lowROUGE-1 score are listed in Table 6.
We also notethat almost half of the summaries that have lowROUGE-1 scores were due to other causes: mostly,machine generated summaries differ from humansummaries in that they describe different function-al aspects of the same gene product.
Take the geneTOP2A (ID: 7153) for example.
While both sum-maries (handwritten and machine generated) focuson its encoded protein DNA topoisomerase, thehandwritten summary describes the chromosomelocation of the gene whereas our algorithm selectsstatements about its gene expression when treatedwith a chemotherapy agent.
We plan to investigatesuch differences further in our future work.Causes for Low Score Number ofgenesFew (?10) related abstracts 106Short reference summary (< 40 words) 27Long reference summary (> 150 words) 76Other 198Total 407Table 6.
Statistics for low ROUGE-1 scores (<0.3)4.4 Results on various summary lengthFigure 5 shows the variations of ROUGE scores asthe summary length increases.
At all lengths andfor both ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-2 measures, ourproposed method performed better than the twobaseline methods.
By investigating the scores ofdifferent summary lengths, it can be seen that theadvantage of our method is greater when the sum-mary is short.
This is of great importance for asummarization system as ordinary users typicallyprefer short content for summaries.Figure 5.
Score variation for different summary length5 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we have presented a system for gene-rating gene summaries by automatically findingextract-worthy sentences from the biomedical lite-rature.
By using the state-of-the-art summarizationtechniques and incorporating gene specific annota-tions, our system is able to generate gene summa-ries more accurately than the baseline methods.Note that we only evaluated our system for humangenes in this work.
More summaries are availablefor human genes than other organisms, but our me-thod is organism-independent and can be appliedto any other species.This research has implications for real-worldapplications such as assisting manual database cu-ration or updating existing gene records.
TheROUGE scores in our evaluation show comparableperformance to those in the newswire summariza-tion (Hickl et al, 2007).
Nonetheless, there arefurther steps necessary before making our systemoutput readily usable by human curators.
For in-stance, human curators are generally in favor ofsentences presented in a coherent order.
Thus, in-formation-ordering algorithms in multi-documentsummarization need to be investigated.
We alsoplan to study the guidelines and scope of the cura-tion process, which may provide additional impor-tant heuristics to further refine our system output.Acknowledgments104The work is supported by NSFC project No.60803075, Chinese 973 Project No.2007CB311003.
ZL is supported by the IntramuralProgram of the National Institutes of Health.
Theauthors are grateful to W. John Wilbur and G.Craig Murray for their help on the early version ofthis manuscript.ReferencesW.
A. Baumgartner, B. K. Cohen, L. M. Fox, G. Ac-quaah-Mensah, L. Hunter.
2007.
Manual Curation IsNot Sufficient for Annotation of Genomic Databases.Bioinformatics, Vol.
23, No.
13.
(July 2007), pp.
i41-48.G.
Bhalotia, P. I. Nakov, A. S. Schwartz and M. A.Hearst, BioText Team Report for the TREC 2003Genomics Track.
In Proceedings of TREC 2003.B.
Boguraev and C. Kennedy.
1997.
Salience-basedContent Characterization of Text Documents.
In Pro-ceedings of Workshop on Intelligent Scalable TextSummarization (ACL97/EACL97), pp.
2-9.J.
Carbonell and J. Goldstein.
1998.
The Use of MMR,Diversity-based Reranking for Reordering Docu-ments and Producing Summaries.
In ACM SIGIR,pages 335?336, August.H.
P. Edmundson.
1969.
New Methods in AutomaticExtracting.
Journal of the ACM (JACM) archive Vo-lume 16,  Issue 2  (April 1969) Pages: 264 ?
285.G.
Erkan and D. R. Radev.
2004.
LexPageRank: Pres-tige in Multi-Document Text Summarization.
In Pro-ceedings of 2004 Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 2004),Barcelona, Spain.S.
Gupta, A.Nenkova and D.Jurafsky.
2007.
MeasuringImportance and Query Relevance in Topic-focusedMulti-document Summarization.
Proceedings ofACL 2007 short papers, Prague, Czech Republic.W.
Hersh and R. T. Bhupatiraju.
2003.
TREC Genomicstrack Overview.
In Proceedings of TheTwelfth TextREtrieval Conference, 2003.A.
Hickl, K. Roberts and F. Lacatusu.
2007.
LCC'sGISTexter at DUC 2007: Machine Reading for Up-date Summarization.R.
Jelier, M. Schuemie, C. Eijk, M. Weeber, E. Mulli-gen, B. Schijvenaars, B. Mons, J. Kors.
Searching forgeneRIFs: Concept-based Query Expansion andBayes Classification.
In Proceedings of TREC 2003.C.
Lin and E. Hovy.
2000.
The Automated Acquisitionof Topic Signatures for Text Summarization.
In Pro-ceedings of the COLING Conference.C.
Lin and E. Hovy.
2003.
Automatic Evaluation ofSummaries Using N-gram Co-Occurrence Statistics.In HLT-NAACL, pages 71?78.X.
Ling, J. Jiang, X.
He, Q. Mei, C. Zhai and B. Schatz.2006.
Automatically Generating Gene Summariesfrom Biomedical Literature.
Proceedings of the Pa-cific Symposium on Biocomputing 2006.X.
Ling, J. Jiang, X.
He, Q. Mei, C. Zhai and B. Schatz.2007.
Generating Gene Summaries from BiomedicalLiterature: A Study of Semi-Structured Summariza-tion.
Information Processing and Management 43,2007, 1777-1791.Z.
Lu, K. B. Cohen and L. Hunter.
2006.
Finding Ge-neRIFs via Gene Ontology Annotations.
Pac Symp-Biocomput.
2006:52-63.C.
Manning and H. Sch?tze.
1999.
Foundations of Sta-tistical Natural Language Processing.
Chapter 5, MITPress.
Cambridge, MA: May 1999.K.
R. McKeown and D. R. Radev.
1995.
GeneratingSummaries of Multiple News Articles.
In Proceed-ings, ACM Conference on Research and Develop-ment in Information Retrieval SIGIR'95, pages 74?82.R.
Mihalcea and P. Tarau.
TextRank: Bringing Orderinto Texts, in Proceedings of the Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP 2004), Barcelona, Spain, July 2004.M.
Newman.
2003.
The Structure and Function ofComplex Networks.
SIAM Review 45.167?256(2003).L.
Page, S. Brin, R. Motwani and T. Winograd.
ThePageRank Citation Ranking: Bringing Order to theWeb.
Technical report, Stanford University, Stanford,CA, 1998.D.
R. Radev, H. Jing, M. Stys and D. Tam.
2004.
Cen-troid-based Summarization of Multiple Documents.Information Processing and Management, 40:919?938.G.
Salton, A. Wong, and C. S. Yang.
1975.
A VectorSpace Model for Automatic Indexing.
Communica-tions of the ACM, vol.
18, nr.11, pages 613?620.S.
Teufel and M. Moens.
1997.
Sentence Extraction as aClassification Task.
Workshop ?Intelligent and scala-ble Text summarization?, ACL/EACL 1997.X.
Wan and J. Xiao.
2007.
Towards a Unified ApproachBased on Affinity Graph to Various Multi-documentSummarizations.
ECDL 2007: 297-308.J.
Yang, A. M. Cohen, W. Hersh.
Automatic Summari-zation of Mouse Gene Information by Clustering andSentence Extraction from MEDLINE Abstracts.AMIA 2007 Annual Meeting.
Nov. 2007 Chicago, IL.J.
Yang, A. M. Cohen, W. Hersh.
2008.
Evaluation of aGene Information Summarization System by UsersDuring the Analysis Process of Microarray Datasets.In BMC Bioinformatics 2009 10(Suppl 2):S5.B.
Zhang, H. Li, Y. Liu, L. Ji, W. Xi, W. Fan, Z. Chen,W.
Ma.
2005.
Improving Web Search Results UsingAffinity Graph.
The 28th Annual International ACMSIGIR Conference (SIGIR'2005), August 2005.105
