Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Graph-based Methods for Natural Language Processing, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 5?13,Suntec, Singapore, 7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPNetwork analysis reveals structure indicative of syntax in the corpus ofundeciphered Indus civilization inscriptionsSitabhra SinhaInstitute of Mathematical SciencesTaramani, Chennai 600113, Indiasitabhra@imsc.res.inRaj Kumar PanInstitute of Mathematical SciencesTaramani, Chennai 600113rajkp@imsc.res.inNisha YadavTata Institute of Fundamental Re-search, Homi Bhabha Road, Mumbai400005, IndiaY_nisha@tifr.res.inMayank VahiaTata Institute of Fundamental Re-search, Homi Bhabha Road, Mumbai40005, Indiavahia@tifr.res.inIravatham MahadevanIndus Research Center,Taramani, Chennai 600113, Indiairavatham@vsnl.netAbstractArchaeological excavations in the sites of theIndus Valley civilization (2500-1900 BCE) inPakistan and northwestern India have un-earthed a large number of artifacts with in-scriptions made up of hundreds of distinctsigns.
To date, there is no generally accepteddecipherment of these sign sequences, andthere have been suggestions that the signscould be non-linguistic.
Here we apply com-plex network analysis techniques on the data-base of available Indus inscriptions, with theaim of detecting patterns indicative of syntac-tic structure in this sign system.
Our resultsshow the presence of regularities, e.g., in thesegmentation trees of the sequences, that sug-gest the existence of a grammar underlying theconstruction of the sequences.1 IntroductionThe recent interest in complex networks amongphysicists over the past few years has meant thatthe graph theoretic paradigm has been applied tomany different areas, including networks definedin corpora of textual units (Mehler, 2008), andhas often revealed hitherto unsuspected patterns.While graph-based representation of texts hadbeen used for some time in natural languageprocessing tasks, such as, text parsing, disam-biguation and clustering (Radev and Mihalcea,2008), the approach based on the new physics ofcomplex networks often asks questions from adifferent perspective that can shed new light onthe organization of linguistic structure.
For ex-ample, networks constructed on the basis of co-occurrence of words in sentences have been seento exhibit the small-world effect, i.e., a small av-erage distance between any pair of arbitrarilychosen words, and, a scale-free distribution ofthe number of words a given word is connectedto (i.e., its degree) (Ferrer i Cancho and Sole,2001).
These properties have been proposed toreflect the evolutionary history of lexicons andthe origin of their flexibility and combinatorialnature.
Note that, a recent study of a lexical net-work of words that are phonological neighborshas found that the degree distribution might bebetter fit by an exponential rather than a power-law function (Vitevitch, 2008).
A theoreticalmodel for such word co-occurrence network,which treats language as a self-organizing net-work of interacting words, has led to the sugges-tion that languages may have a core (the ?kernellexicon?)
that does not vary as the languageevolves (Dorogovtsev and Mendes, 2001).
How-ever, even though text and speech are sequential,the local correlation between immediately con-secutive words may not describe natural lan-guages well ?
due to the presence of non-localrelations between words that occur apart fromeach other in a sentence.
Therefore, network5analysis has been extended to syntactic depend-ency networks, where two words are connected ifthey have been related syntactically in a numberof sentences (Ferrer i Cancho et al 2003).
Thetheory of complex networks has also been usedto investigate the structure of meaningful con-cepts in the written texts of individual authors,which have been seen to have small-world aswell as scale-free characteristics (Caldeira et al2006).
The conceptual network of a language hasbeen explored by using the semantic relatednessof words as defined by a thesaurus, and this net-work too is seen to have small-world nature withscale-free degree distribution (Motter et al2002).In this article, we look at a corpus of inscriptionsobtained through archaeological excavations car-ried out in the ruins of the Indus valley civiliza-tion.
The sequences comprise signs, of whichthere are more than four hundred unique and dis-tinct types.
Since discovery in the early part ofthe 20th century, there have been attempts at de-ciphering them.
However, to date there is nogenerally accepted method of interpreting theseinscriptions.
We analyze a representative data-base of these sequences using techniques in-spired by complex network theory.
Our aim is tosee whether such methods can reveal the exis-tence of patterns suggesting syntactic organiza-tion in the sign sequences.
In the next section, webriefly introduce the historical context of the In-dus inscriptions, while in Section 3, we discussthe dataset on which analysis has been carriedout.
Our results are reported in Section 4, and wefinally conclude with a discussion of unresolvedquestions and further work that needs to be car-ried out.2 The Indus inscriptionsThe Indus civilization, also known as the MatureHarappan civilization (2500-1900 BCE), wasgeographically spread over what is now Pakistanand northwestern India, covering approximatelya million square kilometers (Possehl, 2002).
Itwas marked by urbanization centered aroundlarge planned cities, as evidenced in the ruins ofHarappa and Mohenjo-daro.
Craft specializationand long-distance trade with Mesopotamia andCentral Asia have been well-demonstrated.
Thiscivilization came to an end early in the 2nd mil-lennium BC.
There were no historical records ofits existence until archaeological excavations inthe late 19th and early 20th century uncoveredartifacts, and some of the ruined urban centers(Marshall, 1931).Among the artifacts uncovered during these dis-coveries were a variety of objects (especiallyseals) that were inscribed with a variety of signsarranged in sequences (Fig.
1).
Although foundprimarily on seals and their impressions (seal-ings), inscriptions with similar signs have alsobeen discovered on miniature tablets, pottery,copper tablets, bronze implements, etc.
Unsur-prisingly, given the high sophistication of thecivilization and the level of social complexity itimplies, with the concomitant requirements ofcoordination and communication, these inscrip-tions have been interpreted as corresponding towriting.
However, despite periodic claims aboutdecipherment of this writing system, there has asyet been no generally accepted interpretation ofthe signs.
The failure of decipherment is partlydue to lack of knowledge about the languagewhich the signs encode and the lack of any bilin-gual texts such as the Rosetta stone which wascrucial in deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs.While there is disagreement on the exact numberof unique and distinct signs that occur in the in-scriptions, there is overall agreement that they liein the range of a few hundred.
This rules out thepossibility of the signs belonging either to analphabetic system, which contains on averageFig.
1: A typical example of Indus sign sequence(having 8 distinct signs) occurring at the top of aseal, with the picture of a ?unicorn?
in the fore-ground (i.e., the field symbol), one of the com-mon animal motifs observed in such artifacts.Fig.
1: A typical example of Indus sign sequence(having 8 distinct signs) occurring at the top of aseal, with the picture of a ?unicorn?
in the fore-ground (i.e., the field symbol), one of the com-mon animal motifs observed in such artifacts.Note that, on seals, the conventional order inwhich the signs are read (right to left) is reversed.6about 25 letters (such as English) or an ideo-graphic (e.g., Chinese) writing system, compris-ing more than 50,000 characters.
The brevity ofthe inscriptions (the longest that occurs on a sin-gle line has 14 signs) and the existence of a largenumber of signs that occur with very low fre-quency have led to some alternative suggestionsregarding the meaning of the sign sequences.These include the possibilities that, e.g., (i) thesigns correspond to a label specifying an indi-vidual and his belongings, in the manner of he-raldic badges (Fairservis, 1971) and (ii) the signsare ritual or religious symbols which do not en-code speech nor serve as mnemonic devices,much as the Vinca signs or emblems in NearEastern artifacts (Farmer et al 2004).
The latterpossibility implies the absence of any syntacticstructure in the Indus inscriptions, a possibilitythat can be tested without making any a prioriassumptions about the meaning of the signs.3 Description of datasetThe database for Indus sign sequences that wehave used is based on the electronic concordanceconstructed by Mahadevan (1977), referred hereas M77.
This is based on the study of a total of3573 sequences recorded from 2906 distinct arti-facts and it identifies 417 unique signs.
In thefollowing we identify each sign in a sign se-quence by its corresponding identification num-ber (1, ?, 417) in M77.
Most of the inscriptionsseem to have been written from right to left.However, according to the convention we use,the sequence of numbers representing each textis read from left to right (i.e., the leftmost num-ber in the sequence is read as the first sign in theinscription).
Yadav et al(2008) have constructedan Extended Basic Unique Data Set (EBUDS) byremoving from M77 all sequences that are in-complete, because of the presence of signs thatare damaged, lost, illegible or not unambiguouslyidentified.
Further, only sequences which arewritten on a single line are retained.
This is toremove the ambiguity regarding the interpreta-tion of sequences with multiple lines, namely,whether the different lines should be consideredas independent sequences or whether they formone continuous sequence.
Moreover, if the samesequence is found in multiple artifacts, it is rep-resented only once in EBUDS.
Following theseoperations, the original number of 3573 se-quences in M77 is reduced to 1548 sequences inEBUDS.
Moreover, 40 of the 417 unique signs inM77, which occur with relatively very low fre-quency, do not have any representation inEBUDS ?
so that latter dataset comprises 377unique signs.
However, it has been verified byYadav et al(2008) that the frequency distribu-tions of signs in the two datasets are qualitativelysimilar.4 ResultsIn the following sections we report the resultsof applying network analysis techniques to thesign sequences in EBUDS.
We should note atthis point that, the distributions of the in- andout- strengths of all the nodes (i.e., the sum ofthe weights of the incoming and outgoing links,Fig.
2: The directed network of 377 distinct Indussigns in EBUDS, with arrows pointing from apreceding sign to a sign that follows it in the cor-pus of empirically observed sign sequences.
Linksare weighted by the frequency of occurrence ofthat particular sign pair.Fig.
3: The subnetwork of connections betweenthe 10 highest frequency signs in EBUDS.
Differ-ent colors are used to represent the two differentorientations possible for arrows between a nodalpair (e.g., the pairs 342-162 and 162-342 are bothpossible and are indicated by a blue and a blackarrow, respectively).
Loops indicate successiveoccurrences of the same sign.7respectively) do not show a scale-free distribu-tion.4.1 The directed network of signsTo have a graphical view of the entire sign sys-tem, we first construct the directed network ofIndus signs (Fig.
2).
This has 377 nodes corre-sponding to the distinct, uniquely identifiedsigns.
Node i has a directed link to node j, if signj immediately follows sign i in any of the inscrip-tions included in EBUDS.
The link between iand j is weighted by the frequency of occurrenceof *ij* in the corpus (?*?
is a wildcard characterthat may be substituted by any of the 377 signsor blank space).We note immediately that only 1.5% (=2178) ofthe 377?377 possible directed pairs are seen tooccur in the actual inscriptions.
Furthermore,most of the signs are connected to only one ortwo other signs.
The connectance (probability oflink between any given pair) is only around 0.01,implying that the network is extremely sparse.However, if we plot the sub-network of connec-tions between nodes corresponding to the 10 mo-st common signs in EBUDS (i.e., the ones occur-ring with the highest frequency), we note thatthey are strongly inter-connected (Fig.
3).
There-fore the adjacency matrix of the sign network isfar from homogeneous, with patches of denseconnectivity in certain regions.As the above evidence indicates that there existsa core set of signs which occur very frequently aspairs, a natural question is whether the networkgenerated from EBUDS has a core-peripheryorganization.
This would imply the existence of adensely connected central core (central in termsof graph distance) and a larger class of sparselyconnected peripheral nodes, like that seen in thecase of geographically embedded transportationnetworks (Holme, 2005).
To obtain such a de-composition of the network we use a pruningalgorithm that successively peels away layers ofa given core-order of the network.
The k-core ofa network is defined as the subnetwork contain-ing all nodes that have degree at least equal to k.Thus, to obtain it, we have to iteratively removeall nodes having degree less than k. In particular,the 2-core of a network is obtained by eliminat-ing all nodes that do not form part of a loop (i.e.,a closed path through a subset of the connectednodes).
For a k-core, there exist at least k pathsbetween any pair of nodes belonging to it.
It isobvious that for any network, there exists an in-nermost core of maximum order which cannotexceed the highest degree of the network.In a directed network, one can define a k-coreeither in terms of the in-degree (number of con-nections arriving at the node) or the out-degree(number of connections sent from the node).
Forthe EBUDS network, the innermost core turnsout to have order 8, regardless of the type ofnetwork considered (Fig.
4).
Fig.
5 shows theinnermost core for the in-degree network.
Even acasual inspection shows that many of the com-mon sign pairs in the database belong to thissubnetwork.
Thus, a large part of the corpus canFig.
4: Core-decomposition of the undirectedand directed networks of Indus signs.
For thelatter, both the in-degree (circles) and out-degree (squares) cores are shown, while theundirected cores are represented with dia-monds.
All three core decompositions show aninnermost core of order 8.Fig.
5: The innermost (order 8) in-degree core ofthe Indus sign network with 26 signs.
Grayscalecolor of each link corresponds to the frequency ofoccurrence of a particular pair (e.g., 391-99 and336-89 are the commonest pairs).8be generated by using members of these ?kernellexicons?.4.2 Modularity of the networkMany networks that we see in nature are modu-lar, i.e., they comprise several subnetworks (of-ten called communities) whose members aremore densely connected to each other than withthe rest of the network.
In several systems, suchstructural modules are often associated withfunctional modularity, with each community be-ing identified as being responsible for certainspecific functions (e.g., in the protein interactionnetwork).
In the EBUDS network, existence ofmodules will imply that certain sets of signs oc-cur together far more often than would be ex-pected had their frequencies of appearance in thecorpus been statistically independent.The unambiguous identification of communitiesin a network is a problem that still has not beensolved to complete satisfaction.
However, sev-eral near-optimal algorithms exist.
The techniquewe use was proposed in Newman and Girvan(2004) and involves calculating the followingmeasure of modularity of a network:?
????????
??????
?=sssLdLLQ22,where, L is the total number of links in the net-work, Ls is the number of links between nodeswithin a module s and ds is the sum of the de-grees for nodes belonging to module s. By defi-nition, this gives a large value when the networkhas an unambiguous partition into several com-munities.
Thus, the method for finding the mod-ules involves carrying out many trial divisions ofthe network into modules and calculating thecorresponding Q.
The partition for which Q ismaximum will correspond to the true modularpartition of the system.
Needless to say, a bruteforce method for finding the best partition is im-possible for modest sized networks, and we usean extremal optimization technique for this pur-pose.
We obtain 8 communities whose sizesrange from 6 to 87 nodes.Having identified the communities in the signnetwork, the obvious question is whether theycorrespond to sign groups that occur in a particu-lar context, e.g., commercial or religious.
Withthis aim in view we have examined the correla-tion between the modules and (i) artifact types,(ii) nature of the field symbols and (iii) site ofexcavation.
None of them show any significantcorrelation with the modules, implying that thesigns are not simple attributes of either artifact orsymbol portrayed in a seal, nor were the use ofcertain sign subsets confined exclusively to cer-tain regions.
The latter point underlines the sur-prising homogeneity of sign usage over the vastarea that the Indus civilization covered.
Let usstress that we are looking at correlation betweengroups of signs (that have a strong probability ofco-occurrence) and specific contexts, rather thanthe significant frequency of occurrence of an in-dividual sign in a specific context, of which thereFig.
6: Rank-frequency distribution of Indus signoccurrences, shown on a double logarithmic scale.The two lines indicate power law fits to differentregions of the distribution, with distinct expo-nents.
The latter are calculated using MaximumLikelihood Estimation (MLE).
Neither equal 1, aswould have been the case for a simple Zipf distri-bution.Fig.
7: The probability of occurrence of the signpair 267-99 in EBUDS compared against the cor-responding distribution for the randomized corpus(obtained by considering a million realizations).The large deviation of the empirical value of thepair occurrence probability from the randomizedcorpus indicates that this is a statistically signifi-cant sign pair.9are several examples.
By focusing on correlationpatterns at the level of groups of signs, ratherthan individual signs, we aim to arrive at resultsthat are robust with respect to fluctuations in in-dividual sign frequencies occurring as a result offurther archaeological excavations.4.3 Network of ?significant?
linksSo far we had placed all sign pairs that occur inEBUDS on an equal footing.
However, certainpairs may occur with high probability simplybecause the individual signs that make up thepair occur with high frequency.
Fig.
6 shows thatthe frequency distribution of sign occurrence inEBUDS has an approximately power law distri-bution.
This implies that the few commonestsigns will occur over a very large number ofcases (the most frequent sign appearing as manyas 715 times, which is 10% of the total of 7000occurrences of the 377 signs in EBUDS).
By us-ing the information about the probability of oc-currence for individual signs in EBUDS we caninvestigate significant sign relations, i.e., signcombinations that occur far more frequently thanthat expected from the individual probabilities ofthe component signs.Thus, if sign i occurs with a probability p(i) and jwith p(j), then the pair ij is significant if p(ij) >>p(i)p(j).
To measure by how much p(ij) has to belarger than the product of p(i) and p(j) in order tobe ?significant?, we need to compare the empiri-cal joint occurrence probability against the corre-sponding value for randomized surrogates.
Therandomized corpus is generated by shuffling thesign sequences in the dataset so that, while theindividual sign frequencies are unchanged, allpair correlations in the original inscriptions arelost.
The shuffling can be done over either (i) theentire corpus, or (ii) over each individual seal.Fig.
7 shows a comparison between the empiricalprobability of a certain significant sign pair, andthe corresponding probability distribution ob-tained upon corpus randomization.
It is evidentthat the pair would never have been observedwith the actual EBUDS frequency had the twosigns been independent, i.e., had there been nodependency relation between them.
This devia-tion can be quantified by computing the z-score,which is the difference between the empiricalsign pair probability and the mean of the ran-domized cases, divided by the standard deviationfor the randomizations.
The distribution of z-scores for all 377?377 possible pairs are shownin Fig.
8.
We note that there are 284 sign pairswith z-score larger than 10, while 46 pairs havez-score more than 20.As an example, using the individual seal shuffledrandomization we obtain significant relationsamong 22 signs for a specified z-score threshold(Fig.
9).
There are 6 isolated clusters in this sub-network, with the longest cluster containing 8signs including sign 342 (the commonest sign inthe corpus).
Out of the 16 most frequently ap-pearing signs in the database, 13 appear in thisgroup, indicating that some of the common signshave significant relations with each other.
Whilemost pair relations are between such commonsigns, one exception is the cluster of signs no.
51(35th most common sign), no.
149 (50th mostFig.
8: Distribution of z-scores for all 377 ?
377possible sign pairs.
Note that many potential signpairs are not observed in EBUDS at all, which areresponsible for the negative z-score values.
Therandomization is over the entire corpus, and themean and standard deviation are calculated over amillion random realizations.Fig.
9: The network of significant sign pairs asobtained after comparison with the randomizedcorpus constructed by shuffling signs in each seal.10common sign) and no.
130 (59th most commonsign).
As the individual signs are themselves notvery common, the observed sign relation is in-deed quite intriguing and possibly has somefunctional significance in terms of interpretingthe sign sequences.4.4 ?Syntactic?
tree generationWe will finally attempt to reveal structure indica-tive of syntactic trees by ?parsing?
the longestsign sequences.
We do this by generating seg-mentation trees of the sign sequences based onthe relative frequency of sign combination occur-rences.
Given a inscription of length n, sign pairsare iteratively merged to form meta-signs, withthe first merge being done for the sign pair withthe highest z-score among all pairs in that se-quence.
This merged sign is then included as ameta-sign and assigned a new number.
The re-duced sequence of length n-1 is now againscanned for the pair of signs or meta-signs that ismost ?significant?
and merged together.
Thisprocess continues until the entire sign sequencereduces to a single meta-sign.
In case of a tie be-tween two or more pairs at any stage, one pair israndomly chosen.
The resulting segmentationtree of the sign sequence is shown schematicallyin Fig.
10.
The height of the tree is an indicatorof the presence of significant recursive structurein the sign sequence.
In particular, if the signsare all independent of each other, then the seg-mentation tree has essentially the same height asthe length of the sequence (Fig.
10, top).
On theother hand, if for long sequences, there existssubsequences that also appear in the corpus asseparate sequences in their own right, this is in-dicative of recursion.
The corresponding treeheight is substantially reduced as compared tothe sequence length (Fig.
10, bottom).We use this criterion to seek signature of recur-sive, and hence syntactic, structure in theEBUDS network.
For shorter length sequences, itbecomes difficult to obtain subsequences thatalso appear as sequences in the database.
Wehave thus confined our attention to inscriptionshaving 10 or more signs.
Arranging the heightsof the segmentation trees of these sequences indescending order (for seals of each specificlength), we see that the average tree height isaround 5 (Fig.
11).
Such a characteristic lengthscale indicates that the longer sequences mayactually be composed of multiple smaller se-quences, each of which has a particular syntacticrelation among its constituent signs.5 DiscussionIn this paper we have used complex networkanalysis techniques on the sign network con-structed from a subset of the corpus of inscrip-tions obtained in Indus civilization excavations.Our results suggest that though these sign se-quences are yet to be deciphered, they have ahighly structured arrangement which is sugges-tive of the existence of syntax.
The inference of aset of rules (i.e., the grammar) for arrangingthese signs in a particular order, so as to be ableFig.
10: Schematic segmentation trees for a signsequence of length 8, representing two alternativepossibilities.
The top example is a relatively un-structured sign sequence, with the tree height be-ing almost identical to the sequence length.
Thebottom example shows significant recursive struc-ture and a corresponding lower tree height.Fig.
11: Segmentation tree height for all se-quences (of length 10 or more) in EBUDS ar-ranged in descending order.11to create pseudotexts that are indistinguishablefrom the excavated ones is the eventual aim ofthe analysis described here.
However, prior tothis several open problems need to be addressed.One of the extensions of the present work has todo with looking beyond sign pairs to sign trip-lets, quadruplets, etc.
Preliminary analysis ofnetworks of meta-signs by us indicates that,combinations beyond four signs may not havestatistical significance.
A detailed comparisonbetween the sign network described here and themeta-sign network may provide clues about thepossible hierarchical arrangement of subse-quences in the longer sequences.
Evidence of thisis already seen from the construction of segmen-tation trees of individual sequences based onrelative pair frequencies.It is also possible that there are non-local correla-tions between signs in a given inscription.
Toanalyze this, we need to redefine the links in thenetwork as being connections between all signsthat occur in the same inscription.
Again, pre-liminary analysis seems to suggest that this doesnot provide substantially new results from thosereported here.Based on the number of distinct signs (more than400) there have been several suggestions that, asthe number is too high to be an alphabetic systembut too small to be an ideographic system, theinscriptions could well be written in a logo-syllabic system.
Such a writing system combinesboth logograms (morphemic signs) and syllabic(or phonetic) signs without inherent meaning.
Infuture work, we plan to investigate the differ-ences that arise in the network structure of lan-guages belonging to these very different systems,in order to make an inference on the nature of thewriting system used in the Indus inscriptions.One of the most controversial aspects of Indusdecipherment is the question of how many dis-tinct signs are there.
M77 identified 417 signs,but other researchers have come up with a widerange of different numbers.
Therefore, an impor-tant open issue that needs to be settled in the fu-ture is the robustness of these results, with re-spect to analysis based on another sign list, e.g.,that created by B. K. Wells (Wells, 2006).Our analysis of correlations, or rather, the lackof it, between the modules of the network (i.e.,groups of signs that have a high probability ofco-occurrence) and contexts such as site of exca-vation, artifact types and field symbols, indicatesthat the patterns seen in the sequence organiza-tion are intrinsic to the sign usage system and notso much dependent on the context in which theyarise.
This supports the long-held belief that thesigns encode writing, or, at least, proto-writing.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Bryan K. Wells for care-fully reading through the manuscript and makingnumerous suggestions for improvement.
We aregrateful to the anonymous referees for severalhelpful suggestions.
Ashraf M. Izhar helped inpreparing Figures 7 and 8.
We would also like tothank P. P. Divakaran for his constant encour-agement.ReferencesS.
M. G. Caldeira, T. C. Petit Lobao, R. F. S. AndradeA.
Neme and J. G. V. Miranda.
2006.
The networkof concepts in written texts.
European PhysicalJournal B, 49(4):523-529.S.
N. Dorogovtsev and J. F. Mendes.
2001.
Languageas an evolving word web.
Proceedings of theRoyal Society of London B, 268(1485):2603-2606.W.
A. Fairservis.
1971.
The Roots of Ancient India,George Allen and Unwin, London.S.
Farmer, R. Sproat and M. Witzel.
2004.
The col-lapse of the Indus-script thesis.
Electronic Jour-nal of Vedic Studies, 11(2):19-57.R.
Ferrer i Cancho,  and R. V. Sole.
2001.
The smallworld of human language.
Proceedings of theRoyal Society of London B, 268(1482): 2261-2265.R.
Ferrer i Cancho, R. V. Sole and R. Kohler.
2003.Patterns in syntactic dependency networks.
Physi-cal Review E, 69(5): 051915 (1-8).P.
Holme.
2005.
Core-periphery organization of com-plex networks.
Physical Review E, 72(4): 046111(1-4).I.
Mahadevan.
1977.
The Indus Script: Texts, Con-cordances and Tables, Archaeological Survey ofIndia, New Delhi.J.
Marshall.
1931.
Mohenjo-daro and the IndusCivilization, Arthur Probsthain, London.A.
Mehler.
2008.
Large text networks as an object ofcorpus linguistic studies.
In A. Ludeling and K.Marja (Eds) Corpus Linguistics: An Interna-12tional Handbook, Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin,328-382.A.
E. Motter, A. P. S. De Moura, Y-C. Lai and P.Dasgupta.
2002.
Topology of the conceptual net-work of language.
Physical Review E,65(6):065102 (1-4).M.
E. J. Newman and M. Girvan.
2004.
Finding andevaluating community structure in networks.Physical Review E, 69(2):026113 (1-15).A.
Parpola.
1994.
Deciphering the Indus Script,Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.G.
Possehl.
2002.
The Indus Civilization: A Con-temporary Perspective, AltaMira Press, Lanham,MD.D.
R. Radev and R. Mihalcea.
2008.
Networks andnatural language processing.
AI Magazine,29(3):16-28.M.
S. Vitevitch.
2008.
What can graph theory tell usabout word learning and lexical retrieval.
Journalof Speech, Language and Hearing Research,51(2):408-422.B.
K. Wells.
2006.
Epigraphic Approaches to In-dus Writing, PhD thesis, Harvard University,Cambridge, Mass.N.
Yadav, M. N. Vahia, I. Mahadevan and H. Jogel-kar.
2008.
A statistical approach for pattern searchin Indus writing.
International Journal of Dra-vidian Linguistics, 37(1):39-52.13
