Proceedings of the 2009 Named Entities Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 186?193,Suntec, Singapore, 7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPGraphemic Approximation of Phonological Contextfor English-Chinese TransliterationOi Yee KwongDepartment of Chinese, Translation and LinguisticsCity University of Hong KongTat Chee Avenue, Kowloon, Hong KongOlivia.Kwong@cityu.edu.hkAbstractAlthough direct orthographic mapping hasbeen shown to outperform phoneme-basedmethods in English-to-Chinese (E2C) translit-eration, it is observed that phonological con-text plays an important role in resolving gra-phemic ambiguity.
In this paper, we investi-gate the use of surface graphemic features toapproximate local phonological context forE2C.
In the absence of an explicit phonemicrepresentation of the English source names,experiments show that the previous and nextcharacter of a given English segment could ef-fectively capture the local context affecting itsexpected pronunciation, and thus its renditionin Chinese.1 IntroductionProper names including personal names, placenames, and organization names, make up a con-siderable part of naturally occurring texts.
Per-sonal names, in particular, do not only play animportant role in identifying an individual, butalso carry the family history, parental expecta-tion, as well as other information about a person.In natural language processing, the proper rendi-tion of personal names, especially between dis-similar languages such as Chinese and English,often contributes significantly to machine trans-lation accuracy and intelligibility, and cross-lingual information retrieval.
This paper ad-dresses the problem of automatic English-Chinese forward transliteration (referred to asE2C hereafter) of personal names.Unlike many other languages, Chinese namesare characteristic in their relatively free choiceand combination of characters, particularly forgiven names.
Such apparent flexibility does notonly account for the virtually infinite number ofauthentic Chinese names, but also leads to a con-siderable sample space when foreign names aretransliterated into Chinese.
Underlying the largesample space, however, is not entirely a randomdistribution.
On the one hand, there are no morethan a few hundred Chinese characters which areused in names (e.g.
Sproat et al, 1996).
On theother hand, beyond linguistic and phonetic prop-erties, many other social and cognitive factorssuch as dialect, gender, domain, meaning, andperception, are simultaneously influencing thenaming process and superimposing on the sur-face graphemic correspondence.As the state-of-the-art approach, direct ortho-graphic mapping (e.g.
Li et al, 2004), makinguse of graphemic correspondence between Eng-lish and Chinese directly, has been shown to out-perform phoneme-based methods (e.g.
Virga andKhudanpur, 2003).
In fact, transliteration of for-eign names into Chinese is often based on thesurface orthographic forms, as exemplified in thetransliteration of Beckham, where the supposedlysilent h in ?ham?
is taken as pronounced, result-ing in ??
han4-mu3 in Mandarin Chinese and?
haam4 in Cantonese1.However, as we have observed, there is con-siderable graphemic ambiguity in E2C, where anEnglish segment might correspond to differentChinese segments.
Such multiple mappings, to alarge extent, is associated with the phonologicalcontext embedding the English segment, thusaffecting its expected pronunciation.
Hence, ifsuch phonological context could be considered in1 Mandarin names are shown in simplified Chinesecharacters and transcribed in Hanyu Pinyin, whileCantonese names are shown in traditional Chinesecharacters and transcribed in Jyutping published bythe Linguistic Society of Hong Kong.186the transliteration model, some of the graphemicambiguity could be resolved.
However, insteadof going for an explicit phonemic representation,which might introduce an extra step for errorpropagation, in the current study we investigatethe usefulness of surface graphemic features forapproximating the local phonological context inE2C.
Experiments show that the previous andnext character of a given segment could effec-tively capture the local phonological context andimprove transliteration accuracy.A short note on terminology before we moveon: We use ?segment?
to refer to a minimal gra-phemic transliteration unit in the names.
Forinstance, in the data, the name Amyx is translit-erated as ????
a1-mi3-ke4-si1, the graph-eme pairs are <a, ?>, <my, ?>, and <x, ?
?>.There are three English segments: ?a?, ?my?
and?x?
; and three Chinese segments: ?, ?
and ??.
A segment may or may not correspond toexactly a syllable, although it often does.In Section 2, we will briefly review some re-lated work.
In Section 3, we will discuss someobservations on graphemic ambiguity in E2C.The proposed method will be presented in Sec-tion 4.
Experiments will be reported in Section 5,with results discussed in Section 6, followed by aconclusion in Section 7.2 Related WorkThere are basically two categories of work onmachine transliteration.
On the one hand, vari-ous alignment models are used for acquiringtransliteration lexicons from parallel corpora andother resources (e.g.
Lee et al, 2006; Jin et al,2008; Kuo and Li, 2008).
On the other hand,statistical transliteration models are built fortransliterating personal names and other propernames, such as by means of noisy channel mod-els or direct models amongst others, phoneme-based (e.g.
Knight and Graehl, 1998; Virga andKhudanpur, 2003), or grapheme-based (e.g.
Li etal., 2004), or a combination of them (Oh andChoi, 2005), or based on phonetic (e.g.
Tao et al,2006; Yoon et al, 2007) and semantic (e.g.
Li etal., 2007) features.Li et al (2004), for instance, used a JointSource-Channel Model under the direct ortho-graphic mapping (DOM) framework, skippingthe middle phonemic representation in conven-tional phoneme-based methods, and modellingthe segmentation and alignment preferences bymeans of contextual n-grams of the translitera-tion units.
Their method was shown to outper-form phoneme-based methods and those basedon the noisy channel model.The n-gram model used in Li et al (2004) wasbased on previous local context of graphemepairs.
However, as we are going to show in Sec-tion 3, contexts on both sides of a segment areimportant in determining the actual rendition ofit in Chinese.
In addition, graphemic ambiguitycould in part be resolved by means of the phono-logical context embedding the segment.
Hencein the current study, we propose a method modi-fied from the Joint Source-Channel Model totake into account contexts on both sides of asegment, and to approximate local phonologicalcontext by means of surface graphemic features.3 Some ObservationsIn this section, we will quantitatively analysesome properties of E2C based on our data, andshow the importance of considering neighbour-ing context on both sides of a certain segment, aswell as the possibility of approximating phono-logical properties graphemically.3.1 DatasetThe data used in the current study are based onthe English-Chinese (EnCh) training and devel-opment data provided by the organisers of theNEWS 2009 Machine Transliteration SharedTask.
There are 31,961 English-Chinese namepairs in the training set, and 2,896 English-Chinese name pairs in the development set.
Thedata were manually cleaned up and aligned withrespect to the correspondence between Englishand Chinese segments, e.g.
Aa/l/to ?
/?
/?
.The analysis in this section is based on the train-ing set.The Chinese transliterations in the data basi-cally correspond to Mandarin Chinese pronun-ciations of the English names, as used by mediain Mainland China (Xinhua News Agency, 1992).Note that transliterations for English namescould differ considerably in Chinese, dependingon the dialect in question.
Names transliteratedaccording to Mandarin Chinese pronunciationsare very different from those according to Can-tonese pronunciations, for instance.
Translitera-tions used in Mainland China are also differentfrom those used in Taiwan region, despite bothare based on Mandarin Chinese.
A well citedexample is a syllable initial /d/ may surface as inBaghdad ???
ba1-ge2-da2, but the syllablefinal /d/ is not represented.
This is true for trans-literation based on Mandarin Chinese pronuncia-187tions.
For Cantonese, however, it is differentsince ending stops like ?p, ?t and ?k are allowedin Cantonese syllables.
Hence the syllable final/d/ in Baghdad is already captured in the last syl-lable of???
baa1-gaak3-daat6 in Cantonese.Such phonological properties of MandarinChinese might also account for the observationthat extra syllables are often introduced for cer-tain consonant segments in the middle of an Eng-lish name, as in Hamilton, transliterated as ????
han4-mi4-er3-dun4 in Mandarin Chinese(c.f.
???
haam4-mei5-deon6 in Cantonese);and Beckham, transliterated as ????
bei4-ke4-han4-mu3 in Mandarin Chinese (c.f.
?
?bik1-haam4 in Cantonese).3.2 Graphemic AmbiguityTable 1 quantitatively describes the training data.On average each English name has around 3.14segments, or transliteration units.
On averageeach English segment has around 1.7 differentrenditions in Chinese.
On the other hand, al-though the number of unique Chinese segmentsis just a few hundred, on average one Chinesesegment could correspond to about 10 differentEnglish segments.
This suggests that English-Chinese graphemic segment correspondencecould be quite ambiguous.
Further analysis istherefore needed to see if any systematic patternscould be found among such ambiguity.Unique English names 31,822Total English segments 99,930Unique English segments 2,822Unique Chinese segments 458Unique grapheme pairs 4,750Table 1.
Quantitative Aspects of the DataAssume transliteration pair mappings are inthe form <ek, {ck1,ck2,?,ckn}>, where ek standsfor the kth unique English segment, and{ck1,ck2,?,ckn} for the set of n unique Chinesesegments observed for it in the data.
It wasfound in the training data that n varies from 1 to15, while 32.2% of the distinct English segmentshave multiple grapheme correspondence.
Table 2shows the degree of graphemic ambiguity withillustrative examples.
Some of the ambiguity,however, is the result of homophones.
The effectof homophones (whether or not tones are takeninto account) in E2C transliteration is worthmore in-depth investigation, but it is beyond thescope of the current study.Examplesn Proportion EnglishSegmentChineseSegmentsSource Name Transliteration?
nei4 Abernathy ?????
na4 Adamina ?????
ni2 Cranage ?????
na2 Buonaparte ????
nao3 Kenall ????
na4 Stranahan ?????
?5 4.8% na?
nuo4 Widnall ?????
dan1 Lafontain ????
tan3 Stainton ????
ting2 Sartain ??
4 2.9% tain?
dun4 Chastain ????
lan2 Granberg ?????
lang3 Francine ???
3 7.3% ran?
lun2 Karran ???
di4 Christy ???
?2 17.2% ty ?
tai4 Style ??
?Angie ?
?1 67.8% gie ?
ji2Cowgiel ??
?Table 2.
Graphemic Ambiguity of the Data188The other multiple correspondences are never-theless genuine ambiguity.
The same Englishgraphemic segment, depending on its pronuncia-tion within the name, could be rendered in vari-ous Chinese segments of very different pronun-ciations.
To determine the expected pronuncia-tion of the ambiguous English segment, however,the phonological context embedding the segmenthas an important role to play.
For instance, thegraphemic segment ?na?, when appearing at theend of a name, is often pronounced as /na/ andrendered as ?
na4, especially for female names.But when it is in the middle of a name, and espe-cially before ?th?, it is often pronounced as /nei/and rendered as ?
nei4.
Similarly, the segment?ty?
is often pronounced as /ti/ at the end of aname and transliterated as ?
di4.
On the otherhand, if it is in the middle of a name, after an ?s?or in front of ?le?
or ?re?, it is often pronouncedas /tai/ and therefore transliterated as ?
tai4.Take another segment ?le?
as an example.
Itis found to correspond to as many as 15 differentChinese segments, including ?
li4, ?
le4, ?
li4,?
er3, ?
lai2, ?
li3, etc.
When ?le?
appears atthe end of a name, all but a few cases are pro-nounced as /l/ and rendered as ?
er3, particu-larly when it follows ?a?, e.g.
Dale ??
dai4-er3 and Dipasquale ?????
di2-pa4-si1-kui2-er3.
Exceptions are when ?le?
at the end ofa name follows ?r?, where it is often rendered as?
li4 instead.
On the other hand, when ?le?
ap-pears at the beginning of a name where thevowel is often prominently pronounced, it is usu-ally rendered as ?
le4 or ?
lai2, e.g.
Lepke ???
lai2-pu3-ke4, except when it is followed bythe vowel ?o?, where it is then often transliter-ated as ?
li4, e.g.
Leonor ???
li4-ao4-nuo4.When ?le?
appears in the middle of a name, thetransliteration is nevertheless more variable.Still it is remarkable that ?le?
is transliterated as?
li4 when it is followed by ?c?
or ?x?, e.g.Alex ????
a4-li4-ke4-si1.Such observations thus suggest two importantpoints for E2C.
First, contexts on both sides ofa given segment do play a role in determining itslikely rendition in Chinese.
Second, the phono-logical context is important for determining theexpected pronunciation of an English segmentgiven its position in a name.
Hence we proposea method, making use of contexts on both sidesof a segment, to approximate the local phono-logical context of a segment via surface gra-phemic features.4  Proposed MethodThe Joint Source-Channel Model in Li et al(2004) making use of direct orthographic map-ping and a bigram language model for the seg-ment pairs (or token pairs in their terms) is asfollows:?=??
><><?><><><==KkkkkkkkkkcecePcececePccceeePCEP11122112121),|,(),,...,,,,(),...,,,,...,,(),(where E refers to the English source name and Crefers to the transliterated Chinese name.
With Ksegments aligned between E and C, ek and ck re-fer to the kth English segment and its corre-sponding Chinese segment respectively.While we have grounds for orthographic map-ping as mentioned in the introduction, there issome modification we hope to make to the abovemodel.
As pointed out in the last section, localcontexts on both sides of a given segment shouldbe important and useful for modelling the con-text embedding the segment, which in turn couldhelp determine its expected pronunciation.
Inaddition, the phonological environment might besufficiently represented by a neighbouring pho-neme instead of even a syllable.
Thus we takethe last character from the previous segment andthe first character of the next segment (instead ofthe whole neighbouring segment) into account,irrespective of their corresponding Chinese seg-ments.
This could be considered an attempt toapproximate the local phonological context of agiven segment by means of surface graphemicfeatures, even if we do not go for an explicitphonemic representation of the source name.Hence we propose to make use of bigrams inboth directions with equal weighting, and assigna score, Score(E,C), to a transliteration candidateas below:?=+?
><><Kkkkkkkk efccePelcceP111 ))(|,())(|,(where lc(ek-1) refers to the last character of theprevious English segment, and fc(ek+1) refers tothe first character of the next English segment.In the rest of this paper, we will refer to thismethod as GAP, which stands for GraphemicApproximation of Phonological context.1895 ExperimentsThe 31,961 English-Chinese name pairs from theNEWS shared task training set were used fortraining, and the 2,896 names in the developmentset were used for testing.
The data were firstmanually cleaned up and aligned with respect tothe correspondence between English segmentsand Chinese segments.5.1 Segmentation of Test NamesEach test name was first segmented.
All possiblesegmentations were obtained based on the uniqueEnglish segments obtained from the manualalignment above.The graphemic units are made case-insensitive.When finding all possible graphemic segmenta-tions of the English source names, segments withlength 1 are only allowed if no longer segmentwith that initial letter followed by a vowel is pos-sible.
For example, while ?a?, ?k?, ?l?, ?o?, ?v?,?s?
and ?y?
are all observed segments in thetraining data, when computing the transliterationfor the test name Akalovsky, only two of thepossible segmentations, A/ka/lo/v/s/ky andA/kal/o/v/s/ky, were considered while the restinvolving more single-letter segments were ig-nored.
This is justified by three reasons.
First,the more alternative segmentations, the morealternative transliteration candidates are to beevaluated.
This is computationally expensive,and many alternatives are in fact quite unlikely.Second, single-letter segments are redundant if alonger segment is possible.
On the one hand,transliterations are usually based on a consonant-vowel combination as a unit.
A consonant willonly be on its own as a segment if it occursamong a consonant cluster, which has no directsyllable correspondence in Chinese.
For exam-ple, it is useless to single out the second ?k?
inAkalovsky as the longer segment ?ka?
is pro-nounceable anyway, unlike in names with con-sonant clusters like Akst.
On the other hand, inthe cases of doubling consonants like Ross, both?s?
and ?ss?
will correspond to similar sounds.Third, the n-gram models favour transliterationswith fewer segments anyway, so the segmenta-tions with more single-letter segments will beless probable in any case.The possible segmentations obtained werethen ranked by a method similar to GAP.
Thescore for each segmentation candidate S,Score(S), is computed by:?=+?Kkkkkk sfcsPslcsP111 ))(|())(|(where sk is the kth segment in a name, lc(sk-1) isthe last character of the previous segment andfc(sk+1) is the first character of the next segment.In the experiments, we selected the top N seg-mentation candidates for use in subsequent steps,where N was varied from 1 to 3.5.2 Transliteration CandidatesWith the top N segmentation candidates, thetransliteration candidates were generated bylooking up the grapheme pairs obtained frommanual alignment with frequency over a certainthreshold f.  We tested with f ?
3 and f ?
5.
Ifthere is no grapheme pair for a certain segmentabove the threshold, all pairs below the thresholdwould be considered.
All combinations obtainedwere then subject to ranking by the GAP translit-eration method.5.3 TestingThe transliteration candidates were evaluated andranked by the GAP method.
For comparison, wealso run the Joint Source-Channel Model (JSCM)described in Li et al (2004) on the test data.
Inaddition, we also tested a variation of GAP,called GAP-s, where the neighbouring charactersare replaced by the neighbouring segments in thecomputation of the scores, that is, lc(ek-1) is re-place by <ek-1,ck-1> and fc(ek+1) is replaced by<ek+1,ck+1>.
Note that similar changes were ap-plied to the ranking of the source name segmen-tations for both methods accordingly.System performance was measured by theMean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) (Kantor andVoorhees, 2000), as well as the Word Accuracyin Top-1 (ACC) and Fuzziness in Top-1 (MeanF-score) used in the NEWS shared task.
Onlythe top 10 transliteration candidates produced bythe systems were considered.6 Results and Discussion6.1 Candidates FilteringAs mentioned in the last section, candidates werefiltered in two stages.
First, when the sourceEnglish name was segmented, only the top Nsegmentation candidates were retained for sub-sequent processes.
Second, when transliterationcandidates were generated, only those graphemepairs with frequency ?
f, where applicable, wereconsidered for the candidates.
Table 3 shows the190results of GAP with various combinations of Nand f.f  \ N 1 2 3ACC 0.6357 0.6443 0.6450Mean F 0.8558 0.8600 0.8598MRR30.6961 0.7279 0.7319ACC 0.6336 0.6423 0.6430Mean F 0.8547 0.8597 0.8595MRR50.6910 0.7233 0.7280Table 3.
Performance of GAPAs seen in Table 3, although the top 1 seg-mentation candidate could already achieve a cer-tain performance level, taking the top 3 segmen-tation candidates could nevertheless considerablyimprove the MRR.
This apparently suggests thatthe source name segmentation step could havesignificantly affected the overall performance oftransliteration.
Taking more segmentation can-didates into account could help raise some cor-rect transliterations to a higher rank, but therewas not much improvement in terms of the accu-racy at the top 1 position.In terms of the grapheme pair frequency, set-ting the threshold at 3 gave only slightly betterresults than setting it at 5.
A possible reason isthat about 70% of all unique grapheme pairshave frequency below 5, and out of these over47% only have single correspondence.
In otherwords, there are a lot of grapheme pairs of lowfrequency, and for those ambiguous English seg-ments, the distribution of their correspondingChinese segments could be relatively uneven.Hence the following comparison betweenvarious transliteration methods was based on thecombination of N=3 and f ?
3.6.2 System PerformanceTo show the effectiveness of our proposedmethod, GAP was compared with JSCM andGAP-s.  Table 4 shows the results of the threemethods.JSCM GAP-s GAPACC 0.5760 0.6174 0.6450Mean F 0.8309 0.8507 0.8598MRR 0.6881 0.7175 0.7319Table 4.
System Performance ComparisonAs evident from Table 4, system GAP-s out-performed JSCM.
The accuracy at top 1 positionis much improved, thus boosting the MRR too.This improvement therefore supports our hy-pothesis that contexts on both sides of a givensegment are important for determining its rendi-tion in Chinese, where part of the graphemic am-biguity could be successfully resolved.
Mean-while, system GAP further improves the resultsfrom GAP-s, bringing ACC up to 0.6450 andMRR to 0.7319.
This shows that the phonologi-cal context could be better captured, though onlyapproximately, by means of the last character ofthe previous segment and the first character ofthe next segment, instead of the wholeneighbouring segments.
This is because thephonological context is often most closely re-lated to the neighbouring phonemes instead of awhole syllable.6.3 ExamplesIn this section we show two examples from theexperimental outcomes to illustrate the useful-ness of the GAP method.The name Abercromby, according to the goldstandard, should be transliterated as ?????a4-bo2-ke4-long2-bi3.
This transliteration camethird in the JSCM system, whose top first andsecond candidates were ??????
a4-bo2-ke4-luo2-mu3-bi3 and???????
a4-bei4-er3-ke4-luo2-mu3-bi3 respectively.
On the con-trary, the expected transliteration came first inthe GAP system.The top 3 source name segmentation candi-dates for both methods are shown in Table 5.The expected segmentation has already beenidentified as the best candidate in GAP, while itcame third in JSCM.Top JSCM GAP1 a/ber/c/ro/m/by a/ber/c/rom/by2 a/be/r/c/ro/m/by a/ber/c/ro/m/by3 a/ber/c/rom/by a/be/r/c/rom/byTable 5.
Segmentations for AbercrombyWhen it comes to the evaluation of the trans-literation candidates, the longer candidates couldeven score higher than the expected outcome inJSCM.
The statistical data show that the bigramc/?+ro/?
is far more likely than c/?+rom/?,but P(<ek,ck>=<rom,?> | fc(ek+1)=b) is muchstronger than P(<ek,ck>=<m,?
> | fc(ek+1)=b).Hence, taking the character on both sides of asegment, GAP managed to rank ????
?highest.Another example is the name Regelson, whichis transliterated as ????
li3-ge2-er3-sen1 inthe gold standard.
The expected transliteration is191ranked 8th in JSCM and 2nd in GAP.
AlthoughP(<ek,ck>=<ge,?> | <ek-1,ck-1>=<re,?>) is muchhigher than P(<ek,ck>=<ge,?> | <ek-1,ck-1>=<re,?>), when taking the next segment <l,?> intoaccount, the likelihood of <ge,?> is lowered.Hence the expected transliteration is rankedhigher in GAP.6.4 Error AnalysisAs the proposed method stands, errors couldhave been propagated from two steps.
The firstis the source name segmentation step.
If it hap-pens that the top segmentation candidates arealready wrong to start with, there is no way toreach the expected transliteration at all.
Hence itis even more important to maintain a high accu-racy for the segmentation step.
The other error-propagation step is certainly when transliterationcandidates are evaluated.
The results for thisstep often heavily rely on the training data.
If ithappens that the grapheme pair distributions aresomewhat skewed, particular Chinese segmentswould be preferred irrespective of relevant lin-guistic or other factors.
On the other hand, ifmany homophones are used for a particular Eng-lish segment, the chance of reaching the expectedtransliteration with one of the homophones isagain loosened.
More on this will be discussedin the next section.For the latter error-propagation step, our at-tempt to make use of contexts on both sides of asegment has been shown to be able to improvethe results.
To see how much of the errors is at-tributable to the segmentation step, we roughlymade an estimation by comparing the length ofthe top 1 candidates given in JSCM and GAPwith the gold standard.
It was found that 17.8%and 14.2% of the first candidates in JSCM andGAP respectively do not match the length of thegold standard.
More detailed analysis of thesegmentation results is in progress.6.5 Current Limitations and Future WorkOur current treatment of neighbouring contextand graphemic approximation of phonologicalcontext is shown to outperform pure DOM basedon previous context only.
Nevertheless, there areseveral directions of work which would requiremore investigation to further improve E2C per-formance.First, the source name segmentation step needsfurther improvement to minimise error propaga-tion from an early step.
Phonological knowledgeis obviously important in this regard as how agiven English name should be segmented andpronounced is determined by its phonologicalcontext.
Even without an explicit phonemic rep-resentation of the source names, more could bedone in terms of modelling the phonological con-text via the surface graphemes.Second, relating to the above, foreign namesof different origins often have very differentphonological properties leading to different pro-nunciations for the same orthographic forms.The silent h in Beckham mentioned earlier is oneexample, even though Chinese transliterationsare often based on surface orthographic proper-ties.
Other problematic cases could be from lan-guages like Russian and German where there arerelatively more consonant clusters.
For instance,the segment ?scho?
is often transliterated as onesyllable (e.g.
?
shao4, ?
xiao4, or ?
she4) butthe segment ?stro?
often leads to three syllables(e.g.
???
si1-te4-luo2).
It is therefore impor-tant to incorporate more phonological knowledgeinto the transliteration model, not only to gener-ate more reliable and acceptable transliterationcandidates, but also to reduce effort in evaluatingphonologically invalid segmentation candidatesand syllable structures, thus making the taskcomputationally less expensive.Third, as one of our separate ongoing studiesshows, homophones are not only abundant inChinese language per se, but also in E2C trans-literation.
The situation is particularly salient inChinese transliterations based on Cantonese pro-nunciations.
For example, while some namesmight have two transliterations with differentpronunciations, like Jackson as ??
zik1-seon3or ??
zik1-san4, the same name might also berendered in two forms with a different characterhaving the same pronunciation, such as Adam as??
or ??
(both pronounced as aa3-dong1 inCantonese).
Two transliterations for the samename might have the same sound but differenttones, e.g.
Ashley as ???
aai6-syu4-lei6 or ???
aai6-syu1-lei6.
We therefore attempt tomodel the English-Chinese segment correspon-dence via an intermediate representation of thephonetic transcription of the Chinese characters.Preliminary results are reported in Kwong (2009).Although it happens that only one transliterationis given for each name in the gold standard dataused in this study, the variability of E2C in real-ity is evident.
It is therefore important for sys-tems to be able to accommodate acceptabletransliteration alternatives, particularly for trans-literation extraction and information retrieval.192Fourth, given that tonal patterns could helpdistinguish some homophone ambiguity, the ef-fect of the tonal factor and its potential associa-tion with the pitch and accent in the Englishnames is worth further investigation.7 ConclusionHence in this paper, we have reported our workon approximating phonological context for E2Cwith surface graphemic features.
This is basedon the observation that certain graphemic ambi-guity is closely associated with the local contextson both sides of a given segment, the phonologi-cal properties of which often determine its ex-pected pronunciation.
Experiments have shownthat in the absence of an explicit phonemic repre-sentation of the English source names, the previ-ous and next character of a given segment couldbe effectively employed to approximate the localphonological context affecting the rendition of agiven segment in Chinese.
Our proposed methodGAP gives better results than the conventionalJSCM which only makes use of previous context,and GAP-s which considers the wholeneighbouring segments.
Future work includesimproving the source name segmentation step tominimise error propagation from an early stage,incorporating other factors like name origin andspecial phonological properties of differentsource languages into the transliteration model,as well as effectively handling homophones andtonal patterns in E2C transliteration.AcknowledgementsThe work described in this paper was substan-tially supported by a grant from City Universityof Hong Kong (Project No.
7002203).ReferencesJin, C., Na, S-H., Kim, D-I.
and Lee, J-H. (2008)Automatic Extraction of English-Chinese Translit-eration Pairs using Dynamic Window and Token-izer.
In Proceedings of the Sixth SIGHAN Work-shop on Chinese Language Processing (SIGHAN-6), Hyderabad, India, pp.9-15.Kantor, P.B.
and Voorhees, E.M. (2000)  The TREC-5 Confusion Track: Comparing Retrieval Methodsfor Scanned Text.
Information Retrieval, 2(2-3):165-176.Knight, K. and Graehl, J.
(1998)  Machine Translit-eration.
Computational Linguistics, 24(4):599-612.Kuo, J-S. and Li, H. (2008)  Mining Transliterationsfrom Web Query Results: An Incremental Ap-proach.
In Proceedings of the Sixth SIGHANWorkshop on Chinese Language Processing(SIGHAN-6), Hyderabad, India, pp.16-23.Kwong, O.Y.
(2009)  Homophones and Tonal Pat-terns in English-Chinese Transliteration.
To ap-pear in Proceedings of ACL-IJCNLP 2009, Singa-pore.Lee, C-J., Chang, J.S.
and Jang, J-S. R. (2006)  Ex-traction of transliteration pairs from parallel cor-pora using a statistical transliteration model.
In-formation Sciences, 176:67-90.Li, H., Zhang, M. and Su, J.
(2004)  A Joint Source-Channel Model for Machine Transliteration.
InProceedings of the 42nd Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL2004), Barcelona, Spain, pp.159-166.Li, H., Sim, K.C., Kuo, J-S. and Dong, M. (2007)Semantic Transliteration of Personal Names.
InProceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL2007), Prague, Czech Republic, pp.120-127.Oh, J-H. and Choi, K-S. (2005)  An Ensemble ofGrapheme and Phoneme for Machine Translitera-tion.
In R. Dale, K-F. Wong, J. Su and O.Y.Kwong (Eds.
), Natural Language Processing ?IJCNLP 2005.
Springer, LNAI Vol.
3651, pp.451-461.Sproat, R., Shih, C., Gale, W. and Chang, N. (1996)A stochastic finite-state word-segmentation algo-rithm for Chinese.
Computational Linguistics,22(3): 377-404.Tao, T., Yoon, S-Y., Fister, A., Sproat, R. and Zhai, C.(2006)  Unsupervised Named Entity TransliterationUsing Temporal and Phonetic Correlation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2006 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP2006), Sydney, Australia, pp.250-257.Virga, P. and Khudanpur, S. (2003)  Transliteration ofProper Names in Cross-lingual Information Re-trieval.
In Proceedings of the ACL2003 Workshopon Multilingual and Mixed-language Named EntityRecognition.Xinhua News Agency.
(1992)  Chinese Translitera-tion of Foreign Personal Names.
The CommercialPress.Yoon, S-Y., Kim, K-Y.
and Sproat, R. (2007)  Multi-lingual Transliteration Using Feature based Pho-netic Method.
In Proceedings of the 45th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (ACL 2007), Prague, Czech Republic,pp.112-119.193
