Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 189?190,Athens, Greece, 30 ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsUSP-EACH: Improved Frequency-based Greedy Attribute SelectionDiego Jesus de LucenaUniversity of S?o PauloS?o Paulo - Brazildiego.si@usp.brIvandr?
ParaboniUniversity of S?o PauloS?o Paulo - Brazilivandre@usp.brAbstractWe present a follow-up of our previous fre-quency-based greedy attribute selection strate-gy.
The current version takes into account alsothe instructions given to the participants ofTUNA trials regarding the use of location in-formation, showing an overall improvementon string-edit distance values driven by the re-sults on the Furniture domain.1 IntroductionIn previous work (Lucena & Paraboni, 2008) wepresented a frequency-based greedy attribute se-lection strategy submitted to the TUNA Chal-lenge 2008.
Presently we further the issue  bytaking additional information into account -namely, the trial condition information availablefrom the TUNA data - and report improved re-sults for string-edit distance as required for the2009 competition.2 BackgroundIn Lucena & Paraboni (2008) we presented acombined strategy based on attribute frequencyand certain aspects of a greedy attribute selectionstrategy for referring expressions generation.
Alist P of attributes sorted by frequency is the cen-tre piece of the following selection strategy:?
select all attributes whose relative frequencyfalls above a threshold value t  (t was esti-mated to be 0.8 for both Furniture andPeople domains.)?
if the resulting description uniquely de-scribes the target object, then finalizes.?
if not, starting from the most frequentattribute in P, search exhaustively for anattribute g such that g, if selected, would ruleout all remaining distractors in the context.The overall effect obtained is twofold: on theone hand, in a complex situation of reference (inwhich many attributes may rule out many dis-tractors, but more than one will be required toachieve uniqueness) the algorithm simply selectsfrequent attributes.
This may be comparable to ahuman speaker who has to single out the targetobject but who does not have the means to comeup with the ?right?
attribute straight away.On the other hand, as the number of distractorsdecreases, a single attribute capable of ruling outall distractors will eventually emerge, forcing thealgorithm to switch to a greedy strategy and fi-nalize.
Once again, this may be comparable towhat a human speaker may do when an appropri-ate attribute becomes sufficiently salient and alldistractors in the context can be ruled out atonce.The above approach performed fairly well (atleast considering its simplicity) as reported inLucena & Paraboni (2008).
However, there isone major source of information available fromthe TUNA data that was not taken into accountin the above strategy: the trial conditionrepresented by the +/- LOC feature.
Because thisfeature distinguishes the very kinds of instructiongiven to each participant to complete the TUNAtask, the information provided by -/+ LOC islikely to have a significant impact on the overallresults.
This clear gap in our previous workrepresents an opportunity for improvement dis-cussed in the next section.3 AlgorithmThe present work is a refined version of theoriginal frequency-based greedy attribute selec-tion strategy submitted to the TUNA Challenge2008 (Lucena & Paraboni, 2008), now takingalso the trial condition (+/-LOC) into account.189In the TUNA data, +LOC indicates the in-stances of the experiment in which participantswere told that they were allowed to refer to theX,Y coordinates of the screen (i.e., selecting theX- and/or Y-DIMENSION attributes), whereas-LOC indicates the trials in which they were dis-couraged (but not prevented) to do so.
In prac-tice, references in +LOC trials are more likely toconvey the X- and Y-DIMENSION attributesthan those in which the -LOC condition was ap-plied.Our modified algorithm simply consists ofcomputing separated frequency lists for +LOCand -LOC trial conditions, and then using theoriginal frequency-based greedy approach witheach list accordingly.
In practice, descriptions arenow generated in two different ways, dependingon the trial condition, which may promote the X-and Y-DIMENSION attributes to higher posi-tions in the list P when +LOC applies.Using the TUNA Challenge 2009 develop-ment data set, the attribute selection task wasperformed as above.
For the surface realisationtask, we have reused the English language sur-face realisation module provided by Irene Lang-kilde-Geary for the TUNA Challenge 2008.4 ResultsThe following Figure 1 shows mean sting-editdistance and BLEU-3 scores computed using theevaluation tool provided by the TUNA Challengeteam.
For ease of comparison with our previouswork, we also present Dice and MASI scorescomputed as in the previous TUNA Challenge,although these scores were not required for thecurrent competition.The most relevant comparison with our previ-ous work is observed in the overall string-editdistance values in Figure 1: considering that inLucena & Paraboni (2008) we reported 6.12 edit-distance for Furniture and 7.38 for People, theoverall improvement (driven by the descriptionsin the Furniture domain) may be explained by thefact that the current version makes more accuratedecisions as to when to use these attributes ac-cording to the instructions given to the partici-pants of the TUNA trials (the trial condition +/-LOC.
)On the other hand, the divide between +LOCand -LOC strategies does not have a significanteffect on the results based on the semantics ofthe description (i.e., Dice and MASI scores),which remain the same as those obtained previ-ously.
This may be explained by the fact that us-ing location information inappropriately countsas one single error in Dice/MASI calculations,but it may have a much greater impact on thewording of the surface string (e.g., one single useof the X-DIMENSION attribute may be realizedas ?on the far left?, adding four words to the de-scriptions.
)Overall Furniture PeopleString-edit distance 6.03 4.78 7.50BLEU-3 0.19 0.31 0.04Dice 0.74 0.82 0.65MASI 0.53 0.63 0.41Figure 1.
Results (TUNA Challenge 2009 development data set)5 ConclusionWe have presented a refined version of our pre-vious frequency-based greedy attribute selectionstrategy.
The current version takes into accountthe instructions given to the participants ofTUNA trials regarding the use of location infor-mation (the trial condition +/-LOC.
)Results obtained using the TUNA Challenge2009 development data set show improvementson string-edit distance, suggesting that the gener-ated descriptions resemble more closely thoseseen in the TUNA corpus.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been supported by CNPq-Brazil(484015/2007-9) and FAPESP (2006/03941-7).ReferencesLucena, Diego Jesus de, and Ivandr?
Paraboni (2008)USP-EACH Frequency-based Greedy Attribute Se-lection for Referring Expressions Generation.Proc.
of INLG-2008 (TUNA Challenge 2008).
SaltFork, US, pp.219-220.190
