Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 305?309,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsApplication of Cognitive Strategies to ChineseNoun Classifier E-learningWei Ni, Helena Hong Gao*, and Shixiao OuyangNanyang Technological University, Singapore{helenagao}@ntu.edu.sg1 IntroductionLinguistically, a noun classifier is a morpheme or word used to classify anoun according to its inherent semantic features.
Noun classifiers in Chi-nese are obligatory as a category of its own and used to specify a noun whenit is used with a determiner or a numeral.
In other words, classifiers arenever used independently.
It must occur with a numeral (e.g., yi ?one?, er?two?, san ?three?)
and/or a determiner (e.g., zhe ?this?, nei ?that?
), orcertain quantifiers (e.g., ji ?how many?, mei ?every?)
before the noun.
Sucha combination is referred to as a classifier phrase.
Its basic construction canbe illustrated in the following schema:(Determiner) + Numeral + Classifier + Nounzhe san ben zidianthis three dictionaryThe counterparts in English for the above Chinese classifier phrase are?these three dictionaries?.
The determiner zhe ?this?
is not obligatory in aclassifier phrase.
The numeral san ?three?
marks the object zidian ?dictio-nary?
as is in the state of being plural.
The classifier ben inserted betweenthe numeral and the noun is a classifier for bound materials, such as books,dictionaries, and magazines.2 Cognitive strategies: top-down vs bottom-upBilingual Chinese children and L2 learners of the Chinese language oftenencounter difficulties in their learning of Chinese noun classifiers [2, 3, 5].305This is mainly due to multiple categorization of a noun referent, i.e., a singleentity may belong to more than one category, depending on the propertieswe attribute to it rather than on its intrinsic ones [6].
We expect this obstaclein noun classifier acquisition to be overcome more effectively if attention topragmatic discourse is given on a cognitive basis.
In practice, however, theacquisition is further cumbered by the conventional focus on sentence levelpractice rather than on pragmatic level discourse in the learning process.Recently a replication comparative study of Gao?s 2001 study was con-ducted on Chinese noun classifier production between a group of Swedish-Chinese bilingual children and a group of Swedish L2 learners [5].
Sameas the observation of the previous study, the noun classifier production bythe bilingual children was higher than that by the adult L2 learners.
TheSwedish L2 learners tended to ignore noun classifiers?
semantic and cogni-tive meanings, and to evaluate noun classifiers as merely syntactic terms.Unable to make a semantic association between a classifier and a noun, theywere inclined to rely on their knowledge of measure words in Swedish androte memory of classifiers.
Their top-down pattern in noun classifier acqui-sition limited their horizon in understanding the more complicated yet moremeaningful semantic interpretations of noun classifiers on a cognitive basis.In contrast, the bilingual children did not tackle noun classifiers withstrong top-down expectations.
Their acquisition of noun classifiers wasbased on the categorization schemes built from their semantic and cogni-tive understanding of Chinese.
They proceeded with classifier learning veryconservatively, in a bottom-up manner that relied largely on input.
Takinginto consideration the semantic complexity of the noun classifier system, thebilingual children?s bottom-up approach is more recommended.3 Application in noun classifier e-learningWe describe an e-learning approach to enhance L2 learners?
acquisition ofChinese noun classifiers.
Developed in the software environment of File-Maker Pro 8.5, the e-learning tool is established on a database with classesof nouns and classifiers stored in individual records..The records in the database could be organized according to the lexicalmeanings of the words and categorized into ?nature?, ?humans & bodyparts?, ?animals?, ?vegetables & fruits?
and ?man-made objects?.
Such acategorization appears explicit, but its top-down approach fails to revealthe cognitive mapping between the noun classifier and the noun referent.The objective of the e-learning approach, on the other hand, is to guide L2306learners to build their categorization scheme from the noun referents?
salientsemantic features, specified by their shape, size, thickness, length, function,etc.Therefore, in light of the recommended bottom-up approach, the e-learning tool urges users to learn the salient external or functional featuresof the noun referents in a case-by-case fashion.
In this way they could betterunderstand the point that a noun classifier reflects the cognitive classifica-tion of its associated noun referent.
Each individual record is thus designedin the following format.
It contains the noun as one of its data entries,and it also provides in other data entries information of the correspondingnoun classifier(s) and its description.
Most importantly, the salient semanticfeature of the noun referent is decomposed and illustrated explicitly in anindependent data entry.For instance, tiao is the correct noun classifier for ?a rainbow?, ?a leg?,?a snake?, ?a cucumber?
and ?a scarf?.
To decide the appropriate nounclassifier that occurs in these phrases, L2 learners need to understand thattiao reflects the longitudinal property of ?rainbow?, ?leg?, ?snake?, ?cu-cumber?
and ?scarf?, which is perceptually salient.
Tiao is chosen sinceit matches with the longitudinal attribute the five noun referents have incommon, despite that the intrinsic properties of the five objects vary, whichis illustrated in Table 1.English Chinese classifier phrase Propertiesequivalent numeral classifier noun cognitive intrinsica rainbow yi tiao caihong longitudinal naturea leg yi tiao tui longitudinal humansa snake yi tiao she longitudinal animalsa cucumber yi tiao huanggua longitudinal vegetablesa scarf yi tiao weijin longitudinal man-madeTable 1: A Selection of Classifier Phrases of tiaoCompared with noun classifiers with specific applications (e.g., tiao forsnakes and ben for books), other classifiers are commonly used with moregeneralized sets of nouns.
These general noun classifiers are more semanti-cally complex, since they are inhabited with multi-layer meanings.
It hencerequires deeper cognitive understanding to master them.
Erbaugh examinedthe acquisition order of noun classifiers and suggested learners acquire nounclassifiers specific to single items before they acquire those of generalized307sets, such as ge applicable to both animate and inanimate noun referents ofmost kinds and zhi to nouns of body-parts of humans and animals as wellas man-made objects [1].
L2 learners are recommended to follow the samebottom-up approach to acquire general noun classifiers.
In the e-learningenvironment L2 learners are exposed to a selection of classifier phrases withgeneral noun classifiers.
Take zhi for example.
It is associated with nounssuch as ?bird?, ?bear?, ?hand?
and ?ear?.
Regarding which noun classifieris associated with these four nouns, animacy is the critical semantic featureof these noun referents, which is analyzed in each record of the nouns.Besides utilizing textual explanations, this e-learning tool will also de-velop a computer-based model of noun classifier acquisition for automaticnoun-classifier association.
By implementing Holland?s agent-based model[4], we aim to include in our prototype 150 nouns and 12 noun classifiers astwo groups of interactive agents.
To design a semantic interface between thetwo types of agents in a computational perspective, a tag is attached to eachagent.
Each tag is a pseudo-binary bit string of {0, 1, #}, representing thesemantic features of the agent.
?#?
is known as the ?doesn?t care?
symbol,and is used to indicate that the corresponding semantic feature is not criticalfor the formulation of the classifier phrase, even though the noun referentowns such a feature.The first simple model is illustrated as follows.
In this model each tagconsists of 4 pseudo-binary bits.
The tag ?11##?
is assigned to the agent(noun) ?snake?.
By this we represent the noun referent?s longitudinal se-mantic feature with the first two symbols ?11?.
Despite the noun referentalso has the cognitive property of animacy which could be indicated by thelast two symbols, it is not of primary importance for the concern of classifierphrase composition, and is hence denoted by ?##?.
When it is comparedwith the tag ?1100?
of the agent (noun classifier) tiao, the matching score isreported high.
This indicates tiao is likely to occur in the classifier phraseof ?snake?.
In contrast, its matching score with the tag ?0011?
of the agent(noun classifier) zhi is reported low, which implies an undesirable match.Further simulation tests are required to verify the robustness of the pro-posed model, with a more systematic classification of the agent?s semanticfeatures, a larger number of inputs, and closer scrutiny on those marginallyacceptable classifier phrases.308AcknowledgementResearch grants to H. H. Gao from Nanyang Technological University sup-ported preparation of this paper.References[1] M. S. Erbaugh.
Taking stock: The development of chinese noun clas-sifiers historically and in young children.
In C. Craig, editor, NounClasses and Categorization.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam and Philadel-phia, 1986.
[2] H. Gao.
Understanding the concept of noun classifiers in chinese - acomparative study of the acquisition of chinese noun classifiers betweenswedish adults and bilingual chinese children.
In Proceedings of Human-istdagarna 2001.
Lund University Press, 2001.
[3] H. H. Gao, P. D. Zelazo, and B. Sigurd.
The acquisition of chinese nounclassifiers in bilingual children and adults.
In 2005 Biennial Meeting ofSociety for Research in Child Development, Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.,2005.
[4] J. H. Holland.
Hidden Order: How adaption builds complexity.
Addison-Wesley, 1995.
[5] S. Ouyang and H. H. Gao.
Understanding chinese classifier acquisition:A comparative study.
In Proceedings of the URECA@NTU 2007-08,2008.
[6] S. Rovira.
The cognitive perspective in teaching chinese measure words.In The XV Biennial Conference of the EACS, Heidelberg, Germany,2004.309
