Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technologies for African Languages ?
AfLaT 2009, pages 53?58,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding Capacities in Human Language Technologyfor African LanguagesTunde AdegbolaAfrican Languages Technlogy Initiative (Alt-i), Ibadan, Nigeriataintransit@hotmail.comAbstractThe development of Human Language Technology(HLT) is one of the important by-products of the in-formation revolution.
However, the level of knowl-edge and skills in HLT for African languages remainunfortunately low as most scholars continue to workwithin the frameworks of knowledge production foran industrial society while the information age dawns.This paper reports the work of African LanguagesTechnology Initiative (Alt-i) over a five-year period,and thereby presents a proposal for the acceleration ofthe development of knowledge and skills in HLT forAfrican languages.1 IntroductionThe world is undergoing a transformation fromindustrial economies to an information economy,in which the indices of value are shifting frommaterial to non-material resources.
This trans-formation has been rightly described as a revolu-tion because of the height of its pace and inten-sity.
Of necessity therefore, the response to thechanges brought about by the information revo-lution has to be commensurate, both in pace andintensity.At the root of the information revolution isthe development of digital technology which hasbrought about a major shift in the way we con-ceptualize, describe and anticipate our world.One of the salient social imperatives of the in-formation revolution is the need for humans tocommunicate through and with machines.
Thishas brought about the need to make machinescapable of handling natural language used byhumans as against formal language used by ma-chines.
The field of Human Language Technol-ogy (HLT) was developed to provide the neces-sary knowledge and skills that will enhance theeffectiveness and efficiency with which ma-chines mediate communication between humansas well as facilitate communication between hu-mans and machines.So far, developments in HLT have not suffi-ciently addressed African languages.
This is at-tributable to a low level of awareness of the im-portance of and lack of interest in HLT andamong scholars of African languages and schol-ars of technology on the African continent.
Fur-thermore, there is little or no immediate eco-nomic incentive in working in HLT.
Conse-quently, there is a dearth of scholars with therequisite impetus, knowledge and skills to sup-port the development of HLT for African lan-guages.
Hence, even though there are pockets ofactivities in Africa, the level of development ofHLT for African languages remains low.The circumstances that necessitated the de-velopment of HLT have been described, andrightly so as a revolution.
The response thereforehas to be commensurate both in pace and inten-sity.
Hence, the need for accelerated develop-ment of HLT for African languages is urgent.This paper presents a proposal aimed at accel-erating the development of HLT for African lan-guages based on the experiences gathered at Af-rican Languages Technology Initiative (Alt-i)over a five-year period of activities mainly inNigeria.2 The State of Language technology inAfricaThe application of Language technology to Afri-can languages is relatively new and most effortsseem to be incidental.
The most consistent ef-forts motivated and guided by national policycome from South Africa while projects in othercountries are based primarily on private initia-tives.
In a report on HLT development in Sub-Saharan Africa, Justus Roux (2008) reported nineorganizations involved in HLT activities in SouthAfrica, one organization in West Africa and twoin East Africa.
Seven out of the nine organiza-tions in South Africa are based in universities,one is a Semi-Government institution and one isan agency of the Government.The seven universities with HLT projects are:53z University of Cape Townz University of Limpopoz University of the North West (Potchef-stroom)z University of Pretoriaz University of South Africaz University of Stellenboschz University of the Witwatersrand (Johan-nesburg)The Meraka institute is semi-governmentalwhile there is a Human Language TechnologyUnit under the Department of Arts and Culture ofthe Government of South Africa.In West Africa the only organization reportedis Africa Languages Technology Initiative (Alt-i), while the two reported in East Africa are TheDjibouti Center for Speech Research and Tech-nobyte Speech Technologies in Kenya.Apart from the organisations reported above,there are individual efforts in some universities.These include Dr. Odetunji Odejobi working onText to Speech Synthesis at Obafemi AwolowoUniversity, Ile Ife, Nigeria, Dr. WanjikuNg'ang'a working on Machine Translation andDr.
Peter Wagacha working on Machine Learn-ing, both at the at the University of Nairobi,Kenya.Apart from these organizations and individu-als that are strictly located in Africa, there are anumber  other efforts in various parts of theworld that address HLT for Africa languages,usually in cooperation with some organizationsin Africa.
Examples include:z Local Language Speech Technology Ini-tiative (LLSTI), a project of OutsideEcho in the UKz West African Language Documentation,a project of the University of Bielefeld,Germany in collaboration with the Uni-versity of Uyo, Nigeria and the Univer-sity of Cocody, Cote D'Ivoire.Also, there are significant short-term activi-ties on language technology for African lan-guages both within and outside Africa whichhave not been sufficiently publicized.
For exam-ple, in 2002, there was an undergraduate projectin Yoruba-English machine translation at the StMary's College of Maryland, USA.11 It is also necessary to mention the efforts ofBisharat and SIL.
Even though both organizations arenot strictly founded for developing language technol-ogy for African languages, they have both done im-portant work in making various resources and tools3 On-going Alt-i ActivitiesSince its inception, Alt-i has done more work inYoruba than in other African languages.
This isdue primarily to the ready availability of intellec-tual and other resources for Yoruba at Alt-i's basein Ibadan.
However, work in a few other lan-guages with available local resources have alsobeen undertaken.
The main projects undertakenso far are:3.1 Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) ofYorubaThe ASR project started in 2001, and is still on-going.
A PhD thesis with the title of Applicationof Tonemic Information for Search-Space Reduc-tion in the Automatic Speech Recognition of Yo-ruba is one of the results of the ASR project.
Theproject approaches ASR of Yoruba from thepoint of view that Yoruba tones carry so muchinformation that ?talking drums?
can ?speak?
theYoruba language, hence, ASR of Yoruba (andprobably other African tone languages) should bebased primarily on tones or at least should ad-dress considerable computational resources to-wards correct identification of  tones.
Experi-ments have shown that a  tone-guided search  ofthe recognition space as proposed in the abovePhD thesis leads to improvement in recognitionspeed and accuracy.
ASR efforts are continuingwithin the project ?Redefining Literacy?
; Alt-i'smain on-going project funded by the Open Soci-ety Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA).3.2 Text to Speech (TTS) synthesis of Yoru-baThis project was conceived and initiated in 2002.TTS is a major component of the ?RedefiningLiteracy?
project but we have not yet succeededin attracting funding for this component of theproject.
Hence, it is in abeyance.
However, oneof our Associates, Dr. Odetunji Odejobi of theDepartment of Computer Science and Engineer-ing of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ifeis actively working on TTS and we are collabora-tion with him on this project.
Dr. Odejobi ap-plies fuzzy logic to formalise Yoruba prosody.3.3 Machine TranslationWork is on-going on Igbo-English and Yoruba-English Machine Translation.
The machinetranslation projects are not funded at present, butfor developing language technology for African lan-guages available.54they are taking advantage of the efforts of stu-dent volunteers from the Department of Linguis-tics and African Languages as well as the AfricaRegional Center for information Science, both atthe University of Ibadan.
The main thrust of thepresent stage of the project is identifying anddeveloping formal specifications for variouschallenges of a rule-based machine translation asit relates to translation between Igbo/Yoruba andEnglish.3.4 Yoruba Spelling checkerAs a member of the African Network of Localiz-ers (AnLoc), Alt-i is developing a spellingchecker for Yoruba in Open Office.
This hasprovided the opportunity to undertake a compu-tational study of Yoruba morphology.
Staff andstudents of the Department of Linguistics andAfrican Languages at the University of Ibadanare playing an active role in this project.
Thework is producing new insights for interpretingthe existing literature of Yoruba morphology andis already leading to interests in similar projectsfor other languages.
As at the time of writing, adictionary file of about 5000 Yoruba root wordsand over 100 highly productive affix rules havebeen developed.
Even though some importantYoruba morphological rules cannot be efficientlycoded in Hunspell (the software on which thespelling checker is based) the modest dictionaryand affix files have produced a useful spellingchecker.
The project is funded by the Interna-tional Development Research Center (IDRC) ofCanada.3.5 Automatic diacritic application for Yo-rubaAs a by-product of the Yoruba spelling checkerproject, Alt-i is developing an automatic diacriticapplication program, using the Bayesian learningapproach.
This project is not funded, but it istaking due advantage of some of the resources,particularly the corpus produced in the IDRCfunded spelling checker project.
Work is on-going to expand the corpus used for the auto-matic diacritic application program.3.6 Localization of Microsoft Vista and Of-fice SuiteAlt-i was appointed by Microsoft as moderatorsfor the localization of Microsoft Vista and OfficeSuite into Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba.
This projectis making steady progress.3.7 Academic assistance to the University ofIbadanApart from the above projects, Alt-i offers aca-demic support to the University of Ibadan.
TheExecutive Director of Alt-i teaches post-graduatecourses in Artificial Intelligence and InformationNetworking as well as supervises post-graduateprojects at the Africa Regional Center for Infor-mation Science (ARCIS) in the University ofIbadan.
He also gives various levels of supportin the supervision of post-graduate projects, par-ticularly in the area of acoustic analysis of speechat the Department of Linguistics and AfricanLanguages.Some of the HLT issues addressed in theMaster in Information Science projects between2002 and the present include:Statistical Language Model (SLM) of Yoruba,Man-Machine Communication in Yoruba,  Ma-chine Translation between spoken and signedYoruba for the deaf and impaired in hearing, Yo-ruba phonology multimodal learning coursewareand phonetically motivated automatic languageidentification.Many PhD students of the Department of Lin-guistics and African Languages have also en-joyed intellectual support and use of Alt-i'sspeech laboratory in their studies3.8 Support to other universities and schol-arly associationsMany staff members and students from far andwide travel to Ibadan to use Alt-i's speech labora-tory.
PhD students as well as faculty membersfrom the University of Lagos, University of Ilo-rin, University of Benin and University of Abujacome regularly to use the facilities.
At present ateaching staff of the Department of Systems En-gineering of the University of Lagos is undertak-ing a PhD programme on ASR of Yoruba.
ThisPhD candidate visits Ibadan frequently and regu-larly to use Alt-i's library and speech laboratory,as well as consult Alt-i staff.Alt-i is involved in the activities of variousscholarly associations such as the West AfricanLinguistic Society (WALS),  Linguistics Asso-ciation of Nigeria (LAN) and the Yoruba StudiesAssociation of Nigeria (YSAN).
In 2004, Alt-icollaborated with the West African LinguisticsSociety to organize the West African LanguagesCongress with the theme: Globalisation and theFuture of African Languages.
Alt-i's collabora-tion in the organization of this congress influ-enced the proceedings towards language technol-55ogy which brought about great awareness of lan-guage technology issues among West Africanlinguists.3.9 Bridge building seminar seriesAlt-i runs a Bridge Building Seminar series as away of encouraging cross-disciplinary studies inuniversities and research centers.
These semi-nars have so far been run in eight Nigerian uni-versities and the National Institute for NigerianLanguages (NINLAN).
The one-day seminarsbring together scholars from Linguistics, Litera-ture, Psychology, Mathematics, Physics, Com-puter Science and other relevant departments tobuild awareness of language technology prob-lems and the need for knowledge and skills froma wide range of departments for their solutions4 ObservationsWhile undertaking the above activities in the lastfive years between 2003 and 2008, the followingobservation were made:z The intellectual resources needed for de-veloping knowledge, skills and academicprogrammes in Language Technologyare largely available in Nigerian univer-sities.z The lack of awareness of the need to ad-dress language technology problems hasmade it difficult to harness and directthese resources towards the developmentof language technology for African lan-guages.z Strong sentimental attachments to de-partmental traditions makes it extremelydifficult for scholars to venture far out-side their departmental cocoons.z The importance of linguistics as a fieldof study and the role of linguists in soci-ety are not properly understood.
Hencestudents of linguistic may not be suffi-ciently motivated to aspire to their im-portant roles in society.z Inappropriate admission criteria,  limitedcurricular, and low level of formal inter-action between different faculties in theuniversities make it extremely difficultfor students of the pure sciences, tech-nology and linguistics to share coursesand thereby have opportunities for aca-demic interaction beneficial to the de-velopment of HLT.5 Recommendationsz Intensive and sustained awareness build-ing programmes on the importance oflinguistics and language technologyshould be undertaken in institutions ofhigher learning.
This will make it possi-ble to harness some of the available intel-lectual resources that remain yet un-tapped for the development of languagetechnology for African languages inthese institutions.z Admission criteria and curricular shouldbe reviewed in order to encourage andcapacitate students to widen their intel-lectual horizon beyond the artificial tra-ditional departmental boundaries.z Modern techniques for the managementof learning resources should be em-ployed in order to address the logisticchallenges that discourage students fromtaking courses across the faculties of sci-ence, technology and arts.6 Alt-i: a historical perspectiveInitial interests in language technology that ulti-mately led to the founding of Alt-i date back to1978, but it was in 1985 that a small group of oneElectrical Engineer and two Physicist started toinvestigate Text to Speech synthesis of Yoruba inIbadan, Nigeria.
All they were armed with was abook (Electronic Speech Synthesis by Geof Bris-tow), a microphone and storage oscilloscope.
Itwas extremely difficult to get the required mate-rials in the Nigeria of those days.Unfortunately, neither the Physicists nor theEngineer realized the relevance of linguistics intheir work because the academic environmentwithin which they grew did not provide the nec-essary impetus for interdisciplinary or multidis-ciplinary studies between certain fields of study,certainly not between linguistics, physics andengineering.
This brought about a lot of misdi-rected efforts and frustration.
By 2001 however,with better access to the scientific literature ofcomputational linguistics and HLT, it had be-come clear to what was left of the group thatHLT is as much an issue in language as it is anissue in technology.A careful review of the relevant aspects of thescientific literature of linguistics was then under-taken.
Contacts were made with some of theknown scholars of Yoruba phonology and theirinsights brought new impetus to the work, lead-ing to the founding of Alt-i in 2001.56The salient point in this historical perspectiveis that the academic environment that producedthe members of the original group did not pro-vide the necessary impetus for the level of cross-disciplinary cooperation demanded by the solu-tions to the problems the group was  addressing.Even though there were many papers that illus-trated fruitful connections between linguisticsand computer science in the mid 1980's, the Ni-gerian economy was in such a bad state that theuniversities could not afford to keep their librar-ies updated with current publications in any field.Nigerian universities now have noticeably betteraccess to the global academic literature but a sys-temic weaknesses that does not encourage inter-disciplinary scholarship still subsists and needsto be addressed.7 ProposalA project with advocacy and service componentsaimed at accelerating the development of lan-guage technology for African languages is here-by proposed.
The aim of the proposed project isto produce lecturers, researchers and other ex-perts in language technology for African lan-guages.The advocacy component will identify anddevelop policy thrusts that will encourage thedevelopment of language technology and raiseawareness at various levels of the importance oflinguistics and language technology.
These in-clude raising awareness among secondary schoolstudents, university undergraduates, cultural ac-tivists and relevant policy makers.Within the service component, in affiliationwith a university, a post-graduate course of studyaimed at producing a number of PhDs in lan-guage technology/computational linguistics with-in the space of about five to six years is to bedeveloped.
The candidates for this post-graduatecourse shall be university graduates of variousrelevant fields.
The programme shall start with aone year diploma programme of intensive coursework in linguistics, computational and cognitivesciences.
These will serve to widen the knowl-edge-base of the participants thereby creating thenecessary connections between their back-grounds and various aspects of language tech-nology.
Those that attain a high level ofachievement in the diploma course may stay onfor another six-months to undertake a practicalproject in language technology.
Success in thisproject will earn such candidates a master degreein language technology or computational linguis-tics.
Graduates of the master programme thatattain a high level of performance in the projectwill be encouraged to stay on for the PhD pro-gramme.The main faculty for the programme shall bedrawn from relevant departments in the univer-sity.
They shall undergo induction courses (lo-cally and overseas) to re-orientate their knowl-edge towards applications in language technol-ogy.To kick-start the programme, the support ofscholars in the international language technologycommunity shall be sought for curricular devel-opment as well as teaching.
Occasional or short-term visiting lectureships will be accommodatedwithin sabbatical, fellowship and exchange pro-grammes.As an on-going experiment in this regard, twostudents of the university of Ibadan are at presentworking together on Yoruba-English machinetranslation.
One student is a graduate of Com-puter Science, working towards a master degreein Information Science, while the other is a grad-uate of Linguistics working towards a master de-gree in Linguistics.
The two students are jointlysupervised by a lecturer in Information Scienceand a lecturer in Linguistics.
Even though thecomputer science graduate has never had anyformal training in Linguistics and the Linguisticsgraduate has never had any formal training incomputing, their collaboration has served to wi-den their knowledge-bases.
The student of lin-guistics is approaching the project from the pointof view of comparative syntax and is now able toexpress syntax rules in the form of context-free-grammar in Prolog, while the Information Sci-ence student is approaching the project from thepoint of view of predicate logic as a knowledgerepresentation formalism and now has a fair un-derstanding of the principles of Yoruba and Eng-lish grammars.Even though the experiment is still on-going,the emerging results suggest that the one year offormal study in the proposed diploma programmewill provide adequate knowledge and skills forgraduates of the physical sciences, computer sci-ence, technology, linguistics and psychology toundertake productive research in language tech-nology.8 ConclusionThe development of language technology for Af-rican languages is at a rather embryonic stage.Apart from the efforts in South Africa, there are57little or no coherent programmes on languagetechnology in African universities.
National lan-guage policies where they exist do not accom-modate language technology issues and  there isa generally low level of awareness of the benefitsderivable from language technology.With one-third of the world's languages spo-ken in Africa, there is an urgent need for the de-velopment of new techniques that address thepeculiar features of these languages and therebymake it possible for the cultures that use them tobenefit from the information revolution withouthaving to adopt foreign languagesThe implementation of the proposed aca-demic programme in HLT would require activesupport of the Nigerian government in coopera-tion and collaboration with other friendly gov-ernments as well as various multilateral agenciesfor funding and other resources.
However, in theabsence of a language policy and a coherent lan-guage technology programme, the advocacycomponent becomes be the necessary startingpoint.Developments in HLT and computational lin-guistics present avenues for Nigerian universitiesto re-invigorate the study of linguistics, providenew impetus for students of linguistics and pre-pare graduates of linguistics for more roles insociety than the traditional teaching of local lan-guages at secondary level.
Nigerian universitiesmust therefore play an important role in the nec-essary advocacy.As the world moves further into the informa-tion age, concerted efforts are need to ensure thatdevelopments in HLT takes due account of Afri-can languages so that African languages and cul-tures can benefit from the information revolu-tion.AcknowledgmentsAlt-i acknowledges with thanks the funding sup-port of Tiwa Systems Ltd., Bait-al-Hikma, OpenSociety Initiative for West Africa (OSWIA) andInternational Development Research Center(IDRC) in its activities.ReferencesTunde Adegbola.
2005.
Application of tonemic in-formation for search-space reduction in the auto-matic speech recognition of Yoruba.
UnpublishedPhD.
Thesis, December, 2005, University of Iba-dan, Nigeria.Tunde Adegbola.
2007.
Hitting the right tone.
ICTUpdate http://ictupdate.cta.int/en/Feature-Articles/Hitting-the-right-toneTunde Adegbola.
2009.
The Future of African Lan-guages in a Globalising World.
Presented at theBamako Summit on Multilingualism, 19 - 21 Janu-ary 2009.
Bamako, Mali.Tunde Adegbola.
2009 Indigenising Human LanguageTechnology for National Development.
To be pre-sented at the Africa Regional Center for Informa-tion Science (ARCIS), University of Ibadan, GuestLecture, March 18, 2009.eLearning Africa.
2007.
Interview with Dr. TundeAdegbola.
http://www.elearning-africa.com/newsportal/english/news56_print.php,International Conference on ICT for DevelopmentEducationJustus Roux.
2008.
HLT Development in Sub-SaharnaAfrica.
Report to COCOSDA/WRITE Workshop,LREC2008, Marrakesh.http://www.ilc.cnr.it/flarenet/documents/lrec2008_cocosda-write_workshop_roux.pdfAdam Samassekou.
2007.
Linguistic Diversity.
ICTUpdate.
http://ictupdate.cta.int/en/Regulars/Carte-blanche/Linguistic-diversityRoger Tucker.
2003.
Local language speech technol-ogy initiative.
http:/www.llsti.org58
