Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 169?180,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsGLML: Annotating ArgumentSelection and CoercionJames Pustejovsky, Anna Rumshisky,Jessica L. Moszkowicz, Olga BatiukovaAbstractIn this paper we introduce a methodology for annotating compo-sitional operations in natural language text, and describe a mark-uplanguage, GLML, based on Generative Lexicon, for identifying suchrelations.
While most annotation systems capture surface relation-ships, GLML captures the ?compositional history?
of the argumentselection relative to the predicate.
We provide a brief overview of GLbefore moving on to our proposed methodology for annotating withGLML.
There are three main tasks described in the paper: (i) Com-positional mechanisms of argument selection; (ii) Qualia in modifica-tion constructions; (iii) Type selection in modification of dot objects.We explain what each task includes and provide a description of theannotation interface.
We also include the XML format for GLML in-cluding examples of annotated sentences.1 Introduction1.1 MotivationIn this paper, we introduce a methodology for annotating compositionaloperations in natural language text.
Most annotation schemes encoding?propositional?
or predicative content have focused on the identificationof the predicate type, the argument extent, and the semantic role (or label)assigned to that argument by the predicate (see Palmer et al, 2005, Ruppen-hofer et al, 2006, Kipper, 2005, Burchardt et al, 2006, Ohara, 2008, Subirats,2004).The emphasis here will be on identifying the nature of the composi-tional operation rather than merely annotating the surface types of the en-tities involved in argument selection.169Consider the well-known example below.
The distinction in semantictypes appearing as subject in (1) is captured by entity typing, but not by anysense tagging from, e.g., FrameNet (Ruppenhofer et al, 2006) or PropBank(Palmer et al, 2005).
(1) a. Mary called yesterday.b.
The Boston office called yesterday.While this has been treated as type coercion or metonymy in the literature (cf.Hobbs et al, 1993 , Pustejovsky, 1991, Nunberg, 1979, Egg, 2005), the pointhere is that an annotation using frames associated with verb senses shouldtreat the sentences on par with one another.
Yet this is not possible if theentity typing given to the subject in (1a) is HUMAN and that given for (1b)is ORGANIZATION.The SemEval Metonymy task (Markert and Nissim, 2007) was a goodattempt to annotate such metonymic relations over a larger data set.
Thistask involved two types with their metonymic variants:(2) i.
Categories for Locations: literal, place-for-people, place-for-event,place-for-product;ii.
Categories for Organizations: literal, organization-for-members,organization-for-event, organization-for-product, organization-for-fa-cility.One of the limitations with this approach, however, is that, while appropri-ate for these specialized metonymy relations, the annotation specificationand resulting corpus are not an informative guide for extending the anno-tation of argument selection more broadly.In fact, the metonymy example in (1) is an instance of a much morepervasive phenomenon of type shifting and coercion in argument selection.For example, in (3) below, the sense annotation for the verb enjoy shouldarguably assign similar values to both (3a) and (3b).
(3) a. Mary enjoyed drinking her beer .b.
Mary enjoyed her beer.The consequence of this, however, is that, under current sense and role an-notation strategies, the mapping to a syntactic realization for a given senseis made more complex, and is, in fact, perplexing for a clustering or learn-ing algorithm operating over subcategorization types for the verb.1701.2 Theoretical PreliminariesThe theoretical foundations for compositional operations within the sen-tence have long been developed in considerable detail.
Furthermore, typeshifting and type coercion operations have been recognized as playing animportant role in many formal descriptions of language, in order to main-tain compositionality (cf.
Partee and Rooth, 1983; Chierchia, 1998; Groe-nendijk and Stokhof, 1989; Egg, 2005; Pinkal, 1999; Pustejovsky, 1995, andmany others).
The goal of the present work is to: (a) create a broadly appli-cable specification of the compositional operations involved in argumentselection; (b) apply this specification over a corpus of natural languagetexts, in order to encode the selection mechanisms implicated in the com-positional structure of the language.The creation of a corpus that explicitly identifies the ?compositional his-tory?
associated with argument selection will be useful to computationalsemantics in several respects: (a) the actual contexts within which typecoercions are allowed can be more correctly identified and perhaps gen-eralized; (b) machine learning algorithms can take advantage of the map-ping as an additional feature in the training phase; and (c) some consensusmight emerge on the general list of type-changing operations involved inargument selection, as the tasks are revised and enriched.For the purpose of this annotation task, we will adopt the general ap-proach to argument selection within Generative Lexicon, as recently out-lined in Pustejovsky (2006) and Asher and Pustejovsky (2006).
We can dis-tinguish the following modes of composition in natural language:(4) a.
PURE SELECTION (Type Matching): the type a function requires isdirectly satisfied by the argument;b. ACCOMMODATION: the type a function requires is inherited by theargument;c. TYPE COERCION: the type a function requires is imposed on theargument type.
This is accomplished by either:i.
Exploitation: taking a part of the argument?s type;ii.
Introduction: wrapping the argument with the required type.Each of these will be identified as a unique relation between the predicateand a given argument.
In this annotation effort, we restrict the possiblerelations between the predicate and a given argument to selection and coer-cion.
A more fine-grained typology of relations may be applied at a later171point.
Furthermore, qualia structure values1 are identified in both argu-ment selection and modification contexts.The rest of this document proceeds as follows.
In Section 2, we describeour general methodology and architecture for GL annotation.
Section 3gives an overview of each of the annotation tasks as well as some detailson the resulting GLMLmarkup.
Amore thorough treatment of thematerialwe present, including the complete GLML specification and updates on theannotation effort can be found at www.glml.org.2 General Methodology and ArchitectureIn this section, we describe the set of tasks for annotating compositionalmechanisms within the GL framework.
The current GL markup will in-clude the following tasks, each of which is described below in Section 3.
(5) a. Mechanisms of Argument Selection: Verb-based Annotationb.
Qualia in Modification Constructionsc.
Type Selection in Modification of Dot Objects2.1 System ArchitectureEach GLML annotation task involves two phases: the data set constructionphase and the annotation phase.
The first phase consists of (1) selecting thetarget words to be annotated and compiling a sense inventory for each tar-get, and (2) data extraction and preprocessing.
The prepared data is thenloaded into the annotation interface.
During the annotation phase, the an-notation judgments are entered into the database, and the adjudicator re-solves disagreements.
The resulting database representation is used by theexporting module to generate the corresponding XML markup, stand-offannotation, or GL logical form.These steps will differ slightly for each of the major GLML annotationtasks.
For example, Task 1 focuses on annotating compositional processesbetween the verbs and their arguments.
The first step for this task involves(1) selecting the set of target verbs, (2) compiling a sense inventory for each1The qualia structure, inspired by Moravcsik (1975)?s interpretation of the aitia of Aris-totle, is defined as the modes of explanation of a word or phrase, and defined below (Puste-jovsky, 1991): (a) FORMAL: the category distinguishing the meaning of a word within alarger domain; (b) CONSTITUTIVE: the relation between an object and its constituent parts;(c) TELIC: the purpose or function of the object, if there is one; (d) AGENTIVE: the factorsinvolved in the object?s origins or ?coming into being?.172target, and (3) associating a type template or a set of templates with eachsense.
Since the objective of the task is to annotate coercion, our choicesmust include the verbs that exhibit the coercive behavior at least in some oftheir senses.At the next step, the data containing the selected target words is ex-tracted from a corpus and preprocessed.
Since the GLML annotation isintra-sentential, each extracted instance is a sentence.
Sentences are parsedto identify the relevant arguments, adjuncts or modifiers for each target.The data is presented to the annotatator with the target word and the head-word of the relevant phrase highlighted.Due to the complexity of the GLML annotation, we chose to use thetask-based annotation architecture.
The annotation environment is designedso that the annotator can focus on one facet of the annotation at a time.Thus, in Task 1, the verbs are disambiguated by the annotator in one sub-task, and the annotation of the actual compositional relationship is done inanother subtask.
Figure 1 shows an example of the interface for the verb-based annotation task .Figure 1: Example of Annotation Interface for GLML Annotation1732.2 The Type System for AnnotationThe type system we have chosen for annotation is purposefully shallow,but we also aimed to include types that would ease the complexity of theannotation task.
The type system is not structured in a hierarchy, but ratherit is presented as a set of types.
For example, we include both HUMAN andANIMATE in the type system along with PHYSICAL OBJECT.
While HUMANis a subtype of both ANIMATE and PHYSICAL OBJECT, the annotator doesnot need to be concerned with this.
This allows the annotator to simplychoose the HUMAN type when necessary rather than having to deal withtype inheritance.While the set of types for GLML annotation can easily be modified, thefollowing list is currently being used:(6) HUMAN, ANIMATE, PHYSICAL OBJECT, ARTIFACT, ORGANIZATION, EVENT, PROPOSITION, IN-FORMATION, SENSATION, LOCATION, TIME PERIOD, ABSTRACT ENTITY, ATTITUDE, EMOTION,PROPERTY, OBLIGATION, AND RULE3 Annotation TasksIn this section, we describe the annotation process: the steps involved ineach task and the way they are presented to the annotators.
In this paper,we focus on the task descriptions rather than an in depth review of theannotation interface and the resulting GLML markup.The general methodology for each task is as follows: 1) Select a targetset of words and compile a sense inventory for each one, 2) Select a set ofsentences for each target, 3) Disambiguate the sense of the target in a givensentence, and 4) Answer questions specific to the annotation task in orderto create the appropriate GLML link.3.1 Mechanisms of Argument Selection: Verb-based AnnotationThis annotation task involves choosing which selectional mechanism isused by the predicate over a particular argument.
The possible relationsbetween the predicate and a given argument will, for now, be restrictedto selection and coercion.
In selection, the argument NP satisfies the typ-ing requirements of the predicate, as in The child threw the stone (PHYS-ICAL OBJECT).
Coercion encompasses all cases when a type-shifting op-eration (exploitation or introduction) must be performed on the comple-ment NP in order to satisfy selectional requirements of the predicate, as inThe White House (LOCATION ?
HUMAN) denied this statement.174An initial set of verbs and sentences containing them has been selectedfor annotation.
For each sentence, the compositional relationship of theverb with every argument and adjunct will be annotated.
The target typesfor each argument are provided in a type template that is associated withthe sense of the verb in the given sentence.
For example, one of the sensesof the verb deny (glossed as ?State or maintain that something is untrue?
)would have the following type template: HUMAN deny PROPOSITION.In the first subtask, the annotator is presented with a set of sentencescontaining the target verb and the chosen grammatical relation.
The anno-tator is asked to select the most fitting sense of the target verb, or to throwout the example (pick the ?N/A?
option) if no sense can be chosen eitherdue to insufficient context, because the appropriate sense does not appearin the inventory, or simply no disambiguation can be made in good faith.Next, the annotator is presented with a list of sentences in which thetarget verb is used in the same sense and is asked to determine whether theargument in the specified grammatical relation belongs to the type speci-fied in the corresponding template.
If the argument belongs to the appro-priate type, the ?yes?
box is clicked, generating a CompLink with comp-Type=?SELECTION?.
If ?no?
is selected, a type selection menu pops upbelow the first question, and the annotator is asked to pick a type from alist of shallow types which is usually associated with the argument.
Con-sequently, a CompLink with compType=?COERCION?
is created with thecorresponding source and target type.The following example of GLMLmarkup is generated from the database2:Sir Nicholas Lyell, Attorney General, denies a cover-up.<SELECTOR sid="s1">denies</SELECTOR>a <NOUN nid="n1">cover-up</NOUN> .<CompLink cid="cid1" sID="s1" relatedToNoun="n1" gramRel="dobj"compType="COERCION" sourceType="EVENT" targetType="PROPOSITION"/>3.2 Qualia Selection in Modification ConstructionsFor this task, the relevant semantic relations are defined in terms of thequalia structure.
We examine two kinds of constructions in this task: adjec-tival modification of nouns and nominal compounds3.2While we present these examples as an inline annotation, a LAF (Ide and Romary, 2003)compliant offset annotation is fully compatible with GLML.3Since target nouns have already been selected for these two tasks, it is also possibleto annotate qualia selection in verb-noun contexts such as Can you shine the lamp over here?(TELIC).
However, here we focus solely on the modification contexts mentioned here.1753.2.1 Adjectival Modification of NounsThis task involves annotating how particular noun qualia values are boundby the adjectives.
Following Pustejovsky (2000), we assume that the prop-erties grammatically realized as adjectives ?bind into the qualia structureof nouns, to select a narrow facet of the noun?s meaning.?
For example, inthe NP ?a sharp metal hunting knife?, sharp refers to the knife as a physi-cal object, its FORMAL type, metal is associated with a material part of theknife (CONSTITUTIVE), and hunting is associatedwith how the knife is used(TELIC).
Similarly, forged in ?a forged knife?
is associated with the creationof the knife (AGENTIVE).The task begins with sense disambiguation of the target nouns.
Ques-tions are then used to help the annotator identify which qualia relations areselected.
For example, the TELIC question for the noun table would be ?Isthis adjective associated with the inherent purpose of table??
These ques-tions will change according to the type associated with the noun.
Thus,for natural types such as woman, the TELIC question would be ?Is this ad-jective associated with a specific role of woman??
Similarly, for the AGEN-TIVE role, the question corresponding to the PHYSICAL OBJECT-denotingnouns refers to the ?making or destroying?
the object, while for the EVENT-denoting nouns, the same question involves ?beginning or ending?
of theevent.
QLinks are then created based on the annotator?s answers, as in thefollowing example:The walls and the wooden table had all been lustily scrubbed.<SELECTOR sid="s1">wooden</SELECTOR><NOUN nid="n1">table</NOUN><QLink qid="qid1" sID="s1" relatedToNoun="n1" qType="CONST"/>3.2.2 Nominal CompoundsThis task explores the semantic relationship between elements in nominalcompounds.
The general relations presented in Levi (1978) are a usefulguide for beginning a classification of compound types, but the relationsbetween compound elements quickly prove to be too coarse-grained.
War-ren?s comprehensive work (Warren, 1978) is a valuable resource for differ-entiating relation types between compound elements.The class distinction in compound types in language can be brokendown into three forms (Spencer, 1991): endocentric compounds, exocen-tric compounds, and dvandva compounds.
Following Bisetto and Scalise176(2005), however, it is possible to distinguish three slightly differently con-structed classes of compounds, each exhibiting endocentric and exocentricbehavior: subordinating, attributtive, and coordinate.We will focus on the two classes of subordinating and attributive com-pounds.
Within each of these, we will distinguish between synthetic andnon-synthetic compounds.
The former are deverbal nouns, and when act-ing functionally (subordinating), take the sister noun as an argument, asin bus driver and window cleaner.
The non-synthetic counterparts of theseinclude pastry chef and bread knife, where the head is not deverbal in anyobvious way.
While Bisetto and Scalise?s distinction is a useful one, it doeslittle to explain how non-relational sortal nouns such as chef and knife actfunctionally over the accompanying noun in the compound, as above.This construction has been examined within GL by Johnston and Busa(1999).
We will assume much of that analysis in our definition of the taskdescribed here.
Our basic assumption regarding the nature of the seman-tic link between both parts of compounds is that it is generally similar tothe one present in adjectival modification.
The only difference is that innominal compounds, for instance, the qualia of a head noun are activatedor exploited by a different kind of modifier, a noun.
Given this similar-ity, the annotation for this task is performed just as it is for the adjectivalmodification task.
A QLink is created as in the following example:Our guest house stands some 100 yards away.<SELECTOR sid="s1">guest</SELECTOR><NOUN nid="n1">house</NOUN><QLink qid="qid1" sID="s1" relatedToNoun="n1" qType="TELIC"/>3.3 Type Selection in Modification of Dot ObjectsThis task involves annotating how particular types within dot objects areexploited in adjectival and nominal modification constructions.
Dot objectsor complex types (Pustejovsky, 1995) are defined as the product of a typeconstructor ?
(?dot?
), which creates dot objects from any two types a andb , creating a ?
b.
Complex types are unique because they are made up ofseemingly incompatible types such as FOOD and EVENT.Given a complex type c = a ?
b, there are three possible options: 1) themodifier applies to both a and b, 2) the modifier applies to a only, or 3) themodifier applies to b only.
Option 1 would be illustrated by examples suchas good book [+info, +physobj] and long test [+info, +event].
Examples such as177delicious lunch [+food, -event] and long lunch [-food, +event] illustrate options2 and 3.
A listing of dot objects can be found in Pustejovsky (2005).The sense inventory for the collection of dot objects chosen for this taskwill include only homonyms.
That is, only contrastive senses such as theriver bank versus financial institution for bank will need to be disambiguated.Complementary senses such as the financial institution itself versus thebuilding where it is located are not included.In order to create the appropriate CompLink, the annotator will selectwhich type from a list of component types for a given dot object is exploitedin the sentence.
The resulting GLML is:After a while more champagne and a delicious lunch was served.<SELECTOR sid="s1">delicious</SELECTOR><NOUN nid="n1">lunch</NOUN><CompLink cid="cid1" sID="s1" relatedToNoun="n1" gramRel="mod"compType="SELECTION" sourceType="[PHYS_OBJ,EVENT]"targetType="PHYS_OBJ" />4 ConclusionIn this paper, we approach the problem of annotating the relation betweena predicate and its argument as one that encodes the compositional historyof the selection process.
This allows us to distinguish surface forms that di-rectly satisfy the selectional (type) requirements of a predicate from thosethat are accommodated or coerced in context.
We described a specificationlanguage for selection, GLML, based largely on the type selective opera-tions in GL, and three annotation tasks using this specification to identifyargument selection behavior.There are clearly many compositional operations in language that havenot been addressed in this paper.
The framework is general enough, how-ever, to describe a broad range of type selective behavior.
As the tasks be-come more refined, the extensions will also become clearer.
Furthermore,as other languages are examined for annotation, new tasks will emerge re-flecting perhaps language-specific constructions.AcknowledgementsThe idea for annotating a corpus according to principles of argument selec-tion within GL arose during a discussion at GL2007 in Paris, between one178of the authors (J. Pustejovsky) and Nicoletta Calzolari and Pierrette Bouil-lon.
Recently, the authors met with other members of the GLML WorkingGroup in Pisa at the ILC (September 23-25, 2008).
We would like to thankthe members of that meeting for their fruitful feedback and discussion onan earlier version of this document.
In particular, we would like to thankNicoletta Calzolari, Elisabetta Jezek, Alessandro Lenci, Valeria Quochi, JanOdijk, Tommaso Caselli, Claudia Soria, Chu-Ren Huang, Marc Verhagen,and Kiyong Lee.ReferencesN.
Asher and J. Pustejovsky.
2006.
A type composition logic for generativelexicon.
Journal of Cognitive Science, 6:1?38.A.
Bisetto and S. Scalise.
2005.
The classification of compounds.
Lingue eLinguaggio, 2:319?332.Aljoscha Burchardt, Katrin Erk, Anette Frank, Andrea Kowalski, SebastianPado, and Manfred Pinkal.
2006.
The salsa corpus: a german corpusresource for lexical semantics.
In Proceedings of LREC, Genoa, Italy.Gennaro Chierchia.
1998.
Reference to kinds across language.
Natural Lan-guage Semantics, 6(4).Marcus Egg.
2005.
Flexible semantics for reinterpretation phenomena.
CSLI,Stanford.Jeroen Groenendijk and Martin Stokhof, 1989.
Type-shifting rules and thesemantics of interrogatives, volume 2, pages 21?68.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Jerry R. Hobbs, Mark Stickel, and Paul Martin.
1993.
Interpretation as ab-duction.
Artificial Intelligence, 63:69?142.Nancy Ide and L. Romary.
2003.
Outline of the international standard lin-guistic annotation framework.
In Proceedings of ACL?03Workshop on Lin-guistic Annotation: Getting the Model Right.M.
Johnston and F. Busa.
1999.
The compositional interpretation of com-pounds.
In E. Viegas, editor, Breadth and Depth of Semantics Lexicons,pages 167?167.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic.Karin Kipper.
2005.
VerbNet: A broad-coverage, comprehensive verb lexicon.Phd dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, PA.J.
N. Levi.
1978.
The Syntax and Semantics of Complex Nominals.
AcademicPress, New York.K.
Markert and M. Nissim.
2007.
Metonymy resolution at semeval i:Guidelines for participants.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Conference.179J.
M. Moravcsik.
1975.
Aitia as generative factor in aristotle?s philosophy.Dialogue, 14:622?636.Geoffrey Nunberg.
1979.
The non-uniqueness of semantic solutions: Poly-semy.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 3:143?184.Kyoko Hirose Ohara.
2008.
Lexicon, grammar, and multilinguality in thejapanese framenet.
In Proceedings of LREC, Marrakech, Marocco.M.
Palmer, D. Gildea, and P. Kingsbury.
2005.
The proposition bank: Anannotated corpus of semantic roles.
Computational Linguistics, 31(1):71?106.Barbara Partee and Mats Rooth, 1983.
Generalized conjunction and type ambi-guity, pages 361?383.
de Gruyter, Berlin.Manfred Pinkal.
1999.
On semantic underspecification.
In Harry Bunt andReinhard Muskens, editors, Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshopon Computational Semantics (IWCS 2), January 13-15, Tilburg University,The Netherlands.J.
Pustejovsky.
1991.
The generative lexicon.
Computational Linguistics,17(4).J.
Pustejovsky.
1995.
Generative Lexicon.
Cambridge (Mass.
): MIT Press.J.
Pustejovsky.
2000.
Events and the semantics of opposition.
In C. Tennyand J. Pustejovsky, editors, Events as Grammatical Objects, pages 445?482.
Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI), Stan-ford, CA.J.
Pustejovsky.
2005.
A survey of dot objects.
Technical report, BrandeisUniversity.J.
Pustejovsky.
2006.
Type theory and lexical decomposition.
Journal of Cog-nitive Science, 6:39?76.J.
Ruppenhofer, M. Ellsworth, M. Petruck, C. Johnson, and J. Scheffczyk.2006.
FrameNet II: Extended Theory and Practice.A.
Spencer.
1991.
Morphological Theory: An Introduction to Word Structurein Generative Grammar.
Blackwell Textbooks in Linguistics, Oxford, UKand Cambridge, USA.Carlos Subirats.
2004.
FrameNet Espan?ol.
Una red sema?ntica de mar-cos conceptuales.
In VI International Congress of Hispanic Linguistics,Leipzig.B.
Warren.
1978.
Semantic Patterns of Noun-Noun Compounds.
Acta Univer-sitatis Gothoburgensis, Go?teborg.180
