Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Semitic Languages, pages 53?61,Athens, Greece, 31 March, 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsSpoken Arabic Dialect Identification Using Phonotactic ModelingFadi Biadsy and Julia HirschbergDepartment of Computer ScienceColumbia University, New York, USA{fadi,julia}@cs.columbia.eduNizar HabashCenter for Computational Learning SystemsColumbia University, New York, USAhabash@ccls.columbia.eduAbstractThe Arabic language is a collection ofmultiple variants, among which ModernStandard Arabic (MSA) has a special sta-tus as the formal written standard languageof the media, culture and education acrossthe Arab world.
The other variants are in-formal spoken dialects that are the mediaof communication for daily life.
Arabic di-alects differ substantially from MSA andeach other in terms of phonology, mor-phology, lexical choice and syntax.
In thispaper, we describe a system that automat-ically identifies the Arabic dialect (Gulf,Iraqi, Levantine, Egyptian and MSA) of aspeaker given a sample of his/her speech.The phonotactic approach we use provesto be effective in identifying these di-alects with considerable overall accuracy?
81.60% using 30s test utterances.1 IntroductionFor the past three decades, there has been a greatdeal of work on the automatic identification (ID)of languages from the speech signal alone.
Re-cently, accent and dialect identification have be-gun to receive attention from the speech scienceand technology communities.
The task of dialectidentification is the recognition of a speaker?s re-gional dialect, within a predetermined language,given a sample of his/her speech.
The dialect-identification problem has been viewed as morechallenging than that of language ID due to thegreater similarity between dialects of the same lan-guage.
Our goal in this paper is to analyze the ef-fectiveness of a phonotactic approach, i.e.
makinguse primarily of the rules that govern phonemesand their sequences in a language ?
a techniqueswhich has often been employed by the languageID community ?
for the identification of Arabicdialects.The Arabic language has multiple variants, in-cluding Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), the for-mal written standard language of the media, cul-ture and education, and the informal spoken di-alects that are the preferred method of communi-cation in daily life.
While there are commerciallyavailable Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)systems for recognizing MSA with low error rates(typically trained on Broadcast News), these rec-ognizers fail when a native Arabic speaker speaksin his/her regional dialect.
Even in news broad-casts, speakers often code switch between MSAand dialect, especially in conversational speech,such as that found in interviews and talk shows.Being able to identify dialect vs. MSA as well as toidentify which dialect is spoken during the recog-nition process will enable ASR engines to adapttheir acoustic, pronunciation, morphological, andlanguage models appropriately and thus improverecognition accuracy.Identifying the regional dialect of a speaker willalso provide important benefits for speech tech-nology beyond improving speech recognition.
Itwill allow us to infer the speaker?s regional originand ethnicity and to adapt features used in speakeridentification to regional original.
It should alsoprove useful in adapting the output of text-to-speech synthesis to produce regional speech aswell as MSA ?
important for spoken dialogue sys-tems?
development.In Section 2, we describe related work.
In Sec-tion 3, we discuss some linguistic aspects of Ara-bic dialects which are important to dialect iden-tification.
In Section 4, we describe the Arabicdialect corpora employed in our experiments.
InSection 5, we explain our approach to the identifi-cation of Arabic dialects.
We present our experi-mental results in Section 6.
Finally, we concludein Section 7 and identify directions for future re-search.2 Related WorkA variety of cues by which humans and machinesdistinguish one language from another have beenexplored in previous research on language identi-53fication.
Examples of such cues include phone in-ventory and phonotactics, prosody, lexicon, mor-phology, and syntax.
Some of the most suc-cessful approaches to language ID have madeuse of phonotactic variation.
For example, thePhone Recognition followed by Language Model-ing (PRLM) approach uses phonotactic informa-tion to identify languages from the acoustic sig-nal alone (Zissman, 1996).
In this approach, aphone recognizer (not necessarily trained on a re-lated language) is used to tokenize training data foreach language to be classified.
Phonotactic lan-guage models generated from this tokenized train-ing speech are used during testing to compute lan-guage ID likelihoods for unknown utterances.Similar cues have successfully been used forthe identification of regional dialects.
Zisssmanet al (1996) show that the PRLM approach yieldsgood results classifying Cuban and Peruvian di-alects of Spanish, using an English phone recog-nizer trained on TIMIT (Garofolo et al, 1993).The recognition accuracy of this system on thesetwo dialects is 84%, using up to 3 minutes of testutterances.
Torres-Carrasquillo et al (2004) devel-oped an alternate system that identifies these twoSpanish dialects using Gaussian Mixture Models(GMM) with shifted-delta-cepstral features.
Thissystem performs less accurately (accuracy of 70%)than that of (Zissman et al, 1996).
Alorfi (2008)uses an ergodic HMM to model phonetic dif-ferences between two Arabic dialects (Gulf andEgyptian Arabic) employing standard MFCC (MelFrequency Cepstral Coefficients) and delta fea-tures.
With the best parameter settings, this systemachieves high accuracy of 96.67% on these twodialects.
Ma et al (2006) use multi-dimensionalpitch flux features and MFCC features to distin-guish three Chinese dialects.
In this system thepitch flux features reduce the error rate by morethan 30% when added to a GMM based MFCCsystem.
Given 15s of test-utterances, the systemachieves an accuracy of 90% on the three dialects.Intonational cues have been shown to be goodindicators to human subjects identifying regionaldialects.
Peters et al (2002) show that human sub-jects rely on intonational cues to identify two Ger-man dialects (Hamburg urban dialects vs. North-ern Standard German).
Similarly, Barakat etal.
(1999) show that subjects distinguish betweenWestern vs. Eastern Arabic dialects significantlyabove chance based on intonation alone.Hamdi et al (2004) show that rhythmic dif-ferences exist between Western and Eastern Ara-bic.
The analysis of these differences is done bycomparing percentages of vocalic intervals (%V)and the standard deviation of intervocalic inter-vals (?C) across the two groups.
These featureshave been shown to capture the complexity of thesyllabic structure of a language/dialect in additionto the existence of vowel reduction.
The com-plexity of syllabic structure of a language/dialectand the existence of vowel reduction in a languageare good correlates with the rhythmic structure ofthe language/dialect, hence the importance of sucha cue for language/dialect identification (Ramus,2002).As far as we could determine, there is noprevious work that analyzes the effectiveness ofa phonotactic approach, particularly the parallelPRLM, for identifying Arabic dialects.
In this pa-per, we build a system based on this approach andevaluate its performance on five Arabic dialects(four regional dialects and MSA).
In addition, weexperiment with six phone recognizers trained onsix languages as well as three MSA phone recog-nizers and analyze their contribution to this classi-fication task.
Moreover, we make use of a discrim-inative classifier that takes all the perplexities ofthe language models on the phone sequences andoutputs the hypothesized dialect.
This classifierturns out to be an important component, althoughit has not been a standard component in previouswork.3 Linguistic Aspects of Arabic Dialects3.1 Arabic and its DialectsMSA is the official language of the Arab world.It is the primary language of the media and cul-ture.
MSA is syntactically, morphologically andphonologically based on Classical Arabic, the lan-guage of the Qur?an (Islam?s Holy Book).
Lexi-cally, however, it is much more modern.
It is nota native language of any Arabs but is the languageof education across the Arab world.
MSA is pri-marily written not spoken.The Arabic dialects, in contrast, are the true na-tive language forms.
They are generally restrictedin use to informal daily communication.
Theyare not taught in schools or even standardized, al-though there is a rich popular dialect culture offolktales, songs, movies, and TV shows.
Dialectsare primarily spoken, not written.
However, thisis changing as more Arabs gain access to elec-54tronic media such as emails and newsgroups.
Ara-bic dialects are loosely related to Classical Ara-bic.
They are the result of the interaction betweendifferent ancient dialects of Classical Arabic andother languages that existed in, neighbored and/orcolonized what is today the Arab world.
For ex-ample, Algerian Arabic has many influences fromBerber as well as French.Arabic dialects vary on many dimensions ?primarily, geography and social class.
Geo-linguistically, the Arab world can be divided inmany different ways.
The following is only oneof many that covers the main Arabic dialects:?
Gulf Arabic (GLF) includes the dialects ofKuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, UnitedArab Emirates, and Oman.?
Iraqi Arabic (IRQ) is the dialect of Iraq.
Insome dialect classifications, Iraqi Arabic isconsidered a sub-dialect of Gulf Arabic.?
Levantine Arabic (LEV) includes the di-alects of Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Palestineand Israel.?
Egyptian Arabic (EGY) covers the dialectsof the Nile valley: Egypt and Sudan.?
Maghrebi Arabic covers the dialects ofMorocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Mauritania.Libya is sometimes included.Yemenite Arabic is often considered its ownclass.
Maltese Arabic is not always consid-ered an Arabic dialect.
It is the only Arabicvariant that is considered a separate languageand is written with Latin script.Socially, it is common to distinguish three sub-dialects within each dialect region: city dwellers,peasants/farmers and Bedouins.
The three degreesare often associated with a class hierarchy fromrich, settled city-dwellers down to Bedouins.
Dif-ferent social associations exist as is common inmany other languages around the world.The relationship between MSA and the dialectin a specific region is complex.
Arabs do not thinkof these two as separate languages.
This particularperception leads to a special kind of coexistencebetween the two forms of language that serve dif-ferent purposes.
This kind of situation is what lin-guists term diglossia.
Although the two variantshave clear domains of prevalence: formal written(MSA) versus informal spoken (dialect), there isa large gray area in between and it is often filledwith a mixing of the two forms.In this paper, we focus on classifying the di-alect of audio recordings into one of five varieties:MSA, GLF, IRQ, LEV, and EGY.
We do not ad-dress other dialects or diglossia.3.2 Phonological Variations among ArabicDialectsAlthough Arabic dialects and MSA vary on manydifferent levels ?
phonology, orthography, mor-phology, lexical choice and syntax ?
we willfocus on phonological difference in this paper.1MSA?s phonological profile includes 28 conso-nants, three short vowels, three long vowels andtwo diphthongs (/ay/ and /aw/).
Arabic dialectsvary phonologically from standard Arabic andeach other.
Some of the common variations in-clude the following (Holes, 2004; Habash, 2006):The MSA consonant (/q/) is realized as a glot-tal stop /?/ in EGY and LEV and as /g/ in GLF andIRQ.
For example, the MSA word /t?ari:q/ ?road?appears as /t?ari:?/ (EGY and LEV) and /t?ari:g/ (GLFand IRQ).
Other variants also are found in sub di-alects such as /k/ in rural Palestinian (LEV) and/dj/ in some GLF dialects.
These changes do notapply to modern and religious borrowings fromMSA.
For instance, the word for ?Qur?an?
is neverpronounced as anything but /qur?a:n/.The MSA alveolar affricate (/dj/) is realized as/g/ in EGY, as /j/ in LEV and as /y/ in GLF.
IRQpreserves the MSA pronunciation.
For example,the word for ?handsome?
is /djami:l/ (MSA, IRQ),/gami:l/ (EGY), /jami:l/ (LEV) and /yami:l/ (GLF).The MSA consonant (/k/) is generally realizedas /k/ in Arabic dialects with the exception of GLF,IRQ and the Palestinian rural sub-dialect of LEV,which allow a /c?/ pronunciation in certain con-texts.
For example, the word for ?fish?
is /samak/in MSA, EGY and most of LEV but /simac?/ in IRQand GLF.The MSA consonant /?/ is pronounced as /t/ inLEV and EGY (or /s/ in more recent borrowingsfrom MSA), e.g., the MSA word /?ala:?a/ ?three?is pronounced /tala:ta/ in EGY and /tla:te/ in LEV.IRQ and GLF generally preserve the MSA pronun-ciation.1It is important to point out that since Arabic dialects arenot standardized, their orthography may not always be con-sistent.
However, this is not a relevant point to this papersince we are interested in dialect identification using audiorecordings and without using the dialectal transcripts at all.55The MSA consonant /?/ is pronounced as /d/in LEV and EGY (or /z/ in more recent borrow-ings from MSA), e.g., the word for ?this?
is pro-nounced /ha:?a/ in MSA versus /ha:da/ (LEV) and/da/ EGY.
IRQ and GLF generally preserve theMSA pronunciation.The MSA consonants /d?/ (emphatic/velarizedd) and /?
?/ (emphatic /?/) are both normalized to/d?/ in EGY and LEV and to /?
?/ in GLF and IRQ.For example, the MSA sentence /?
?alla yad?rubu/?he continued to hit?
is pronounced /d?all yud?rub/(LEV) and /?
?all yu?
?rub/ (GLF).
In modern bor-rowings from MSA, /?
?/ is pronounced as /z?/ (em-phatic z) in EGY and LEV.
For instance, the wordfor ?police officer?
is /?
?a:bit?/ in MSA but /z?a:bit?/in EGY and LEV.In some dialects, a loss of the emphatic featureof some MSA consonants occurs, e.g., the MSAword /lat?i:f/ ?pleasant?
is pronounced as /lati:f/ inthe Lebanese city sub-dialect of LEV.
Empha-sis typically spreads to neighboring vowels: if avowel is preceded or succeeded directly by an em-phatic consonant (/d?/, /s?/, /t?/, /?
?/) then the vowelbecomes an emphatic vowel.
As a result, the lossof the emphatic feature does not affect the conso-nants only, but also their neighboring vowels.Other vocalic differences among MSA and thedialects include the following: First, short vow-els change or are completely dropped, e.g., theMSA word /yaktubu/ ?he writes?
is pronounced/yiktib/ (EGY and IRQ) or /yoktob/ (LEV).
Sec-ond, final and unstressed long vowels are short-ened, e.g., the word /mat?a:ra:t/ ?airports?
in MSAbecomes /mat?ara:t/ in many dialects.
Third, theMSA diphthongs /aw/ and /ay/ have mostly be-come /o:/ and /e:/, respectively.
These vocalicchanges, particularly vowel drop lead to differentsyllabic structures.
MSA syllables are primarilylight (CV, CV:, CVC) but can also be (CV:C andCVCC) in utterance-final positions.
EGY sylla-bles are the same as MSA?s although without theutterance-final restriction.
LEV, IRQ and GLF al-low heavier syllables including word initial clus-ters such as CCV:C and CCVCC.4 CorporaWhen training a system intended to classify lan-guages or dialects, it is of course important to usetraining and testing corpora recorded under simi-lar acoustic conditions.
We are able to obtain cor-pora from the Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC)with similar recording conditions for four Arabicdialects: Gulf Arabic, Iraqi Arabic, Egyptian Ara-bic, and Levantine Arabic.
These are corpora ofspontaneous telephone conversations produced bynative speakers of the dialects, speaking with fam-ily members, friends, and unrelated individuals,sometimes about predetermined topics.
Although,the data have been annotated phonetically and/ororthographically by LDC, in this paper, we do notmake use of any of annotations.We use the speech files of 965 speakers (about41.02 hours of speech) from the Gulf Arabicconversational telephone Speech database for ourGulf Arabic data (Appen Pty Ltd, 2006a).2 Fromthese speakers we hold out 150 speakers for test-ing (about 6.06 hours of speech).3 We use the IraqiArabic Conversational Telephone Speech database(Appen Pty Ltd, 2006b) for the Iraqi dialect, se-lecting 475 Iraqi Arabic speakers with a total du-ration of about 25.73 hours of speech.
Fromthese speakers we hold out 150 speakers4 for test-ing (about 7.33 hours of speech).
Our Levan-tine data consists of 1258 speakers from the Ara-bic CTS Levantine Fisher Training Data Set 1-3(Maamouri, 2006).
This set contains about 78.79hours of speech in total.
We hold out 150 speakersfor testing (about 10 hours of speech) from Set 1.5For our Egyptian data, we use CallHome Egyp-tian and its Supplement (Canavan et al, 1997)and CallFriend Egyptian (Canavan and Zipperlen,1996).
We use 398 speakers from these corpora(75.7 hours of speech), holding out 150 speakersfor testing.6 (about 28.7 hours of speech.
)Unfortunately, as far as we can determine, thereis no data with similar recording conditions forMSA.
Therefore, we obtain our MSA training datafrom TDT4 Arabic broadcast news.
We use about47.6 hours of speech.
The acoustic signal was pro-cessed using forced-alignment with the transcriptto remove non-speech data, such as music.
Fortesting we again use 150 speakers, this time iden-tified automatically from the GALE Year 2 Dis-tillation evaluation corpus (about 12.06 hours ofspeech).
Non-speech data (e.g., music) in the test2We excluded very short speech files from the corpora.3The 24 speakers in devtest folder and the last 63 files,after sorting by file name, in train2c folder (126 speakers).The sorting is done to make our experiments reproducible byother researchers.4Similar to the Gulf corpus, the 24 speakers in devtestfolder and the last 63 files (after sorting by filename) intrain2c folder (126 speakers)5We use the last 75 files in Set 1, after sorting by name.6The test speakers were from evaltest and devtest foldersin CallHome and CallFriend.56corpus was removed manually.
It should be notedthat the data includes read speech by anchors andreporters as well as spontaneous speech spoken ininterviews in studios and though the phone.5 Our Dialect ID ApproachSince, as described in Section 3, Arabic dialectsdiffer in many respects, such as phonology, lex-icon, and morphology, it is highly likely thatthey differ in terms of phone-sequence distribu-tion and phonotactic constraints.
Thus, we adoptthe phonotactic approach to distinguishing amongArabic dialects.5.1 PRLM for dialect IDAs mentioned in Section 2, the PRLM approach tolanguage identification (Zissman, 1996) has hadconsiderable success.
Recall that, in the PRLMapproach, the phones of the training utterances ofa dialect are first identified using a single phonerecognizer.7 Then an n-gram language model istrained on the resulting phone sequences for thisdialect.
This process results in an n-gram lan-guage model for each dialect to model the dialectdistribution of phone sequence occurrences.
Dur-ing recognition, given a test speech segment, werun the phone recognizer to obtain the phone se-quence for this segment and then compute the per-plexity of each dialect n-gram model on the se-quence.
The dialect with the n-gram model thatminimizes the perplexity is hypothesized to be thedialect from which the segment comes.Parallel PRLM is an extension to the PRLM ap-proach, in which multiple (k) parallel phone rec-ognizers, each trained on a different language, areused instead of a single phone recognizer (Ziss-man, 1996).
For training, we run all phone recog-nizers in parallel on the set of training utterancesof each dialect.
An n-gram model on the outputs ofeach phone recognizer is trained for each dialect.Thus if we have m dialects, k x m n-gram modelsare trained.
During testing, given a test utterance,we run all phone recognizers on this utterance andcompute the perplexity of each n-gram model onthe corresponding output phone sequence.
Finally,the perplexities are fed to a combiner to determinethe hypothesized dialect.
In our implementation,7The phone recognizer is typically trained on one of thelanguages being identified.
Nonetheless, a phone recognizetrained on any language might be a good approximation,since languages typically share many phones in their phoneticinventory.we employ a logistic regression classifier as ourback-end combiner.
We have experimented withdifferent classifiers such as SVM, and neural net-works, but logistic regression classifier was supe-rior.
The system is illustrated in Figure 1.We hypothesize that using multiple phone rec-ognizers as opposed to only one allows the systemto capture subtle phonetic differences that mightbe crucial to distinguish dialects.
Particularly,since the phone recognizers are trained on differ-ent languages, they may be able to model differentvocalic and consonantal systems, hence a differentphonetic inventory.
For example, an MSA phonerecognizer typically does not model the phoneme/g/; however, an English phone recognizer does.As described in Section 3, this phoneme is animportant cue to distinguishing Egyptian Arabicfrom other Arabic dialects.
Moreover, phone rec-ognizers are prone to many errors; relying uponmultiple phone streams rather than one may leadto a more robust model overall.5.2 Phone RecognizersIn our experiments, we have used phone recogniz-ers for English, German, Japanese, Hindi, Man-darin, and Spanish, from a toolkit developed byBrno University of Technology.8 These phone rec-ognizers were trained on the OGI multilanguagedatabase (Muthusamy et al, 1992) using a hybridapproach based on Neural Networks and Viterbidecoding without language models (open-loop)(Matejka et al, 2005).Since Arabic dialect identification is our goal,we hypothesize that an Arabic phone recognizerwould also be useful, particularly since otherphone recognizers do not cover all Arabic con-sonants, such as pharyngeals and emphatic alveo-lars.
Therefore, we have built our own MSA phonerecognizer using the HMM toolkit (HTK) (Younget al, 2006).
The monophone acoustic modelsare built using 3-state continuous HMMs withoutstate-skipping, with a mixture of 12 Gaussians perstate.
We extract standard Mel Frequency CepstralCoefficients (MFCC) features from 25 ms frames,with a frame shift of 10 ms. Each feature vec-tor is 39D: 13 features (12 cepstral features plusenergy), 13 deltas, and 13 double-deltas.
The fea-tures are normalized using cepstral mean normal-ization.
We use the Broadcast News TDT4 corpus(Arabic Set 1; 47.61 hours of speech; downsam-pled to 8Khz) to train our acoustic models.
The8www.fit.vutbr.cz/research/groups/speech/sw/phnrec57?????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????????????????????
???????
???????????
????????????
??????
????????????????
???????????
????????????
??????
????????????????????????????????
???????????
????????????
??????
?????????????????????
?Figure 1: Parallel Phone Recognition Followed by Language Modeling (PRLM) for Arabic Dialect Identification.pronunciation dictionary is generated as describedin (Biadsy et al, 2009).
Using these settings webuild three MSA phone recognizers: (1) an open-loop phone recognizer which does not distinguishemphatic vowels from non-emphatic (ArbO), (2)an open-loop with emphatic vowels (ArbOE), and(3) a phone recognizer with emphatic vowels andwith a bi-gram phone language model (ArbLME).We add a new pronunciation rule to the set ofrules described in (Biadsy et al, 2009) to distin-guish emphatic vowels from non-emphatic ones(see Section 3) when generating our pronunciationdictionary for training the acoustic models for thethe phone recognizers.
In total we build 9 (Arabicand non-Arabic) phone recognizers.6 Experiments and ResultsIn this section, we evaluate the effectiveness of theparallel PRLM approach on distinguishing Ara-bic dialects.
We first run the nine phone recog-nizers described in Section 5 on the training datadescribed in Section 4, for each dialect.
This pro-cess produces nine sets of phone sequences foreach dialect.
In our implementation, we train atri-gram language model on each phone set usingthe SRILM toolkit (Stolcke, 2002).
Thus, in total,we have 9 x (number of dialects) tri-grams.In all our experiments, the 150 test speakers ofeach dialect are first decoded using the phone rec-ognizers.
Then the perplexities of the correspond-ing tri-gram models on these sequences are com-puted, and are given to the logistic regression clas-sifier.
Instead of splitting our held-out data intotest and training sets, we report our results with10-fold cross validation.We have conducted three experiments to eval-uate our system.
The first is to compare the per-formance of our system to Alorfi?s (2008) on thesame two dialects (Gulf and Egyptian Arabic).The second is to attempt to classify four collo-quial Arabic dialects.
In the third experiment, weinclude MSA as well in a five-way classificationtask.6.1 Gulf vs. Egyptian Dialect IDTo our knowledge, Alorfi?s (2008) work is theonly work dealing with the automatic identifica-tion of Arabic dialects.
In this work, an ErgodicHMM is used to model phonetic differences be-tween Gulf and Egyptian Arabic using MFCC anddelta features.
The test and training data used inthis work was collected from TV soap operas con-taining both the Egyptian and Gulf dialects andfrom twenty speakers from CallHome Egyptiandatabase.
The best accuracy reported by Alorfi(2008) on identifying the dialect of 40 utterancesof duration of 30 seconds each of 40 male speakers(20 Egyptians and 20 Gulf speakers) is 96.67%.Since we do not have access to the test collec-tion used in (Alorfi, 2008), we test a version of oursystem which identifies these two dialects only onour 150 Gulf and 150 Egyptian speakers, as de-scribed in Section 4.
Our best result is 97.00%(Egyptian and Gulf F-Measure = 0.97) when us-ing only the features from the ArbOE, English,Japanese, and Mandarin phone recognizers.
Whileour accuracy might not be significantly higher thanthat of Alorfi?s, we note a few advantages of ourexperiments.
First, the test sets of both dialectsare from telephone conversations, with the samerecording conditions, as opposed to a mix of dif-ferent genres.
Second, in our system we test 300speakers as oppose to 40, so our results may bemore reliable.
Third, our test data includes female584 dialectsseconds accuracy Gulf Iraqi Levantine Egyptian5 60.833 49.2 52.7 58.1 8315 72.83 60.8 61.2 77.6 91.930 78.5 68.7 67.3 84 9445 81.5 72.6 72.4 86.9 93.760 83.33 75.1 75.7 87.9 94.6120 84 75.1 75.4 89.5 96?????????????????????????
??
??
??
??
???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 2: The accuracies and F-Measures of the four-wayclassification task with different test-utterance durationsspeakers as well as male, so our results are moregeneral.6.2 Four Colloquial Arabic Dialect IDIn our second experiment, we test our system onfour colloquial Arabic dialects (Gulf, Iraqi, Levan-tine, and Egyptian).
As mentioned above, we usethe phone recognizers to decode the training datato train the 9 tri-gram models per dialect (9x4=36tri-gram models).
We report our 10-fold cross val-idation results on the test data in Figure 2.
Toanalyze how dependent our system is on the du-ration of the test utterance, we report the systemaccuracy and the F-measure of each class for dif-ferent durations (5s ?
2m).
The longer the ut-terance, the better we expect the system to per-form.
We can observe from these results that re-gardless of the test-utterance duration, the best dis-tinguished dialect among the four dialects is Egyp-tian (F-Measure of 94% with 30s test utterances),followed by Levantine (F-Measure of 84% with30s), and the most confusable dialects, accordingto the classification confusion matrix, are those ofthe Gulf and Iraqi Arabic (F-Measure of 68.7%,67.3%, respectively with 30s).
This confusion isconsistent with dialect classifications that considerIraqi a sub-dialect of Gulf Arabic, as mentioned inSection 3.We were also interested in testing which phonerecognizers contribute the most to the classifica-tion task.
We observe that employing a subset ofthe phone recognizers as opposed to all of themprovides us with better results.
Table 1 showswhich phone recognizers are selected empirically,for each test-utterance duration condition.99Starting from all phone recognizers, we remove one rec-ognizer at a time; if the cross-validation accuracy decreases,Dur.
Acc.
(%) Phone Recognizers5s 60.83 ArbOE+ArbLME+G+H+M+S15s 72.83 ArbOE+ArbLME+G+H+M30s 78.50 ArbO+H+S45s 81.5 ArbE+ArbLME+H+G+S60s 83.33 ArbOE+ArbLME+E+G+H+M120s 84.00 ArbOE+ArbLME+G+MTable 1: Accuracy of the four-way classification (four col-loquial Arabic dialects) and the best combination of phonerecognizers used per test-utterances duration; The phonerecognizers used are: E=English, G=German, H=Hindi,M=Mandarin, S=Spanish, ArbO=open-loop MSA withoutemphatic vowels, ArbOE=open-loop MSA with emphaticvowels, ArbLME=MSA with emphatic vowels and bi-gramphone LMWe observe that the MSA phone recognizers arethe most important phone recognizers for this task,usually when emphatic vowels are modeled.
In allscenarios, removing all MSA phone recognizersleads to a significant drop in accuracy.
German,Mandarin, Hindi, and Spanish typically contributeto the classification task, but English, and Japanesephone recognizers are less helpful.
It is possiblethat the more useful recognizers are able to cap-ture more of the distinctions among the Arabic di-alects; however, it might also be that the overallquality of the recognizers also varies.6.3 Dialect ID with MSAConsidering MSA as a dialectal variant of Ara-bic, we are also interested in analyzing the perfor-mance of our system when including it in our clas-sification task.
In this experiment, we add MSA asthe fifth dialect.
We perform the same steps de-scribed above for training, using the MSA corpusdescribed in Section 4.
For testing, we use alsoour 150 hypothesized MSA speakers as our testset.
Interestingly, in this five-way classification,we observe that the F-Measure for the MSA classin the cross-validation task is always above 98%regardless of the test-utterance duration, as shownin Figure 3.It would seem that MSA is rarely confused withany of the colloquial dialects: it appears to have adistinct phonotactic distribution.
This explanationis supported by linguists, who note that MSA dif-fers from Arabic dialects in terms of its phonology,lexicon, syntax and morphology, which appears tolead to a profound impact on its phonotactic distri-bution.
Similar to the four-way classification task,we add it back.
We have experimented with an automaticfeature selection methods, but with the empirical (?greedy?
)selection we typically obtain higher accuracy.594 dialectsseconds accuracy Gulf Iraqi Levantine Egyptian5 68.6667 54.5 50.7 60 77.915 76.6667 57.3 62.6 73.8 90.730 81.6 68.3 71.7 79.4 90.245 84.8 69.9 73.6 86.2 94.960 86.933 76.8 76.5 85.4 96.3120 87.86 79.1 77.4 90.1 93.6?????????????????????????
??
??
??
??
??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 3: The accuracies and F-Measures of the five-wayclassification task with different test-utterance durationsDur.
Acc.
(%) Phone Recognizers5s 68.67 ArbO+ArbLME+H+M15s 76.67 ArbLME+G+H+J+M30s 81.60 ArbO+ArbOE+E+G+H+J+M+S45s 84.80 ArbOE+ArbLME+E+G+H+J+M+S60s 86.93 ArbOE+ArbLME+G+J+M+S120s 87.86 ArbO+ArbLME+E+STable 2: Accuracy of the five-way classification (4 colloquialArabic dialects + MSA) and the best combination of phonerecognizers used per test-utterances duration; The phonerecognizers used are: E=English, G=German, H=Hindi,J=Japanese, M=Mandarin, S=Spanish, ArbO=open-loopMSA without emphatic vowels, ArbOE=open-loop MSAwith emphatic vowels, ArbLME=MSA with emphatic vow-els and bi-gram phone LMEgyptian was the most easily distinguished dialect(F-Measure=90.2%, with 30s test utterance) fol-lowed by Levantine (79.4%), and then Iraqi andGulf (71.7% and 68.3%, respectively).
Due to thehigh MSA F-Measure, the five-way classifier canalso be used as a binary classifier to distinguishMSA from colloquial Arabic (Gulf, Iraqi, Levan-tine, and Egyption) reliably.It should be noted that our classification resultsfor MSA might be inflated for several reasons: (1)The MSA test data were collected from Broad-cast News, which includes read (anchor and re-porter) speech, as well as telephone speech (for in-terviews).
(2) The identities of the test speakers inthe MSA corpus were determined automatically,and so might not be as accurate.As a result of the high identification rate ofMSA, the overall accuracy in the five-way clas-sification task is higher than that of the four-wayclassification.
Table 2 presents the phone recog-nizers selected the accuracy for each test utteranceduration.
We observe here that the most impor-tant phone recognizers are those trained on MSA(ArbO, ArbOE, and/or ArbLME).
Removing themcompletely leads to a significant drop in accu-racy.
In this classification task, we observe that allphone recognizers play a role in the classificationtask in some of the conditions.7 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we have shown that four Arabiccolloquial dialects (Gulf, Iraqi, Levantine, andEgyptian) plus MSA can be distinguished usinga phonotactic approach with good accuracy.
Theparallel PRLM approach we employ thus appearsto be effective not only for language identificationbut also for Arabic dialect ID.We have found that the most distinguishabledialect among the five variants we consider hereis MSA, independent of the duration of the test-utterance (F-Measure is always above 98.00%).Egyptian Arabic is second (F-Measure of 90.2%with 30s test-utterances), followed by Levantine(F-Measure of 79.4%, with 30s test).
The mostconfusable dialects are Iraqi and Gulf (F-Measureof 71.7% and 68.3%, respectively, with 30s test-utterances).
This high degree of Iraqi-Gulf confu-sion is consistent with some classifications of IraqiArabic as a sub-dialect of Gulf Arabic.
We haveobtained a total accuracy of 81.60% in this five-way classification task when given 30s-durationutterances.
We have also observed that the mostuseful phone streams for classification are thoseof our Arabic phone recognizers ?
typically thosewith emphatic vowels.As mentioned above, the high F-measure forMSA may be due to the MSA corpora we haveused, which differs in genre from the dialect cor-pora.
Therefore, one focus of our future researchwill be to collect MSA data with similar record-ing conditions to the other dialects to validateour results.
We are also interested in includingprosodic features, such as intonational, durational,and rhythmic features in our classification.
A morelong-term and general goal is to use our results toimprove ASR for cases in which code-switchingoccurs between MSA and other dialects.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Dan Ellis, Michael Mandel, and Andrew Rosenbergfor useful discussions.
This material is based upon work sup-ported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency(DARPA) under Contract No.
HR0011-06-C-0023 (approvedfor public release, distribution unlimited).
Any opinions,findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed inthis material are those of the authors and do not necessarilyreflect the views of DARPA.60ReferencesF.
S. Alorfi.
2008.
PhD Dissertation: Automatic Identifica-tion Of Arabic Dialects Using Hidden Markov Models.
InUniversity of Pittsburgh.Appen Pty Ltd. 2006a.
Gulf Arabic Conversational Tele-phone Speech Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia.Appen Pty Ltd. 2006b.
Iraqi Arabic Conversational Tele-phone Speech Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia.M.
Barkat, J. Ohala, and F. Pellegrino.
1999.
Prosody as aDistinctive Feature for the Discrimination of Arabic Di-alects.
In Proceedings of Eurospeech?99.F.
Biadsy, N. Habash, and J. Hirschberg.
2009.
Improv-ing the Arabic Pronunciation Dictionary for Phone andWord Recognition with Linguistically-Based Pronuncia-tion Rules.
In Proceedings of NAACL/HLT 2009, Col-orado, USA.A.
Canavan and G. Zipperlen.
1996.
CALLFRIEND Egyp-tian Arabic Speech Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadel-phia.A.
Canavan, G. Zipperlen, and D. Graff.
1997.
CALL-HOME Egyptian Arabic Speech Linguistic Data Consor-tium, Philadelphia.J.
S. Garofolo et al 1993.
TIMIT Acoustic-PhoneticContinuous Speech Corpus Linguistic Data Consortium,Philadelphia.N.
Habash.
2006.
On Arabic and its Dialects.
MultilingualMagazine, 17(81).R.
Hamdi, M. Barkat-Defradas, E. Ferragne, and F. Pelle-grino.
2004.
Speech Timing and Rhythmic Structure inArabic Dialects: A Comparison of Two Approaches.
InProceedings of Interspeech?04.C.
Holes.
2004.
Modern Arabic: Structures, Functions, andVarieties.
Georgetown University Press.
Revised Edition.B.
Ma, D. Zhu, and R. Tong.
2006.
Chinese Dialect Iden-tification Using Tone Features Based On Pitch Flux.
InProceedings of ICASP?06.M.
Maamouri.
2006.
Levantine Arabic QT Training DataSet 5, Speech Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia.P.
Matejka, P. Schwarz, J. Cernocky, and P. Chytil.
2005.Phonotactic Language Identification using High QualityPhoneme Recognition.
In Proceedings of Eurospeech?05.Y.
K. Muthusamy, R.A. Cole, and B.T.
Oshika.
1992.
TheOGI Multi-Language Telephone Speech Corpus.
In Pro-ceedings of ICSLP?92.J.
Peters, P. Gilles, P. Auer, and M. Selting.
2002.
Iden-tification of Regional Varieties by Intonational Cues.
AnExperimental Study on Hamburg and Berlin German.45(2):115?139.F.
Ramus.
2002.
Acoustic Correlates of Linguistic Rhythm:Perspectives.
In Speech Prosody.A.
Stolcke.
2002.
SRILM - an Extensible Language Model-ing Toolkit.
In ICASP?02, pages 901?904.P.
Torres-Carrasquillo, T. P. Gleason, and D. A. Reynolds.2004.
Dialect identification using Gaussian Mixture Mod-els.
In Proceedings of the Speaker and Language Recog-nition Workshop, Spain.S.
Young, G. Evermann, M. Gales, D. Kershaw, G. Moore,J.
Odell, D. Ollason, D. Povey, V. Valtchev, and P. Wood-land.
2006.
The HTK Book, version 3.4.M.
A. Zissman, T. Gleason, D. Rekart, and B. Losiewicz.1996.
Automatic Dialect Identification of Extempora-neous Conversational, Latin American Spanish Speech.In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference onAcoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, Atlanta, USA.M.
A. Zissman.
1996.
Comparison of Four Approaches toAutomatic Language Identification of Telephone Speech.IEEE Transactions of Speech and Audio Processing, 4(1).61
