Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 316?319,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsDeveloping a Computer-facilitated Tool forAcquiring Near-synonyms in Chinese and EnglishShixiao Ouyang, Helena Hong Gao*, and Soo Ngee KohNanyang Technological University, Singapore{helenagao}@ntu.edu.sg1 IntroductionThis paper is a multi-disciplinary study on cognitive linguistics, computationallinguistics and language acquisition.
It focuses on application issues of meaning,semantic structures and pragmatics to near-synonyms in Chinese and Englishlanguages.
The near-synonyms of physical action verbs (PA Verbs) can bedistinctive from each other in the way in which their actions are depicted, butin terms of language acquisition, it is not an easy task to identify the nuancesamong near-synonyms.
Normal dictionaries do not explain the differentiae thatare crucial for the choice among near-synonyms, and research on how to tacklethe nuances among near-synonyms of PA Verbs has hardly been done.
Weaim to develop a computer-facilitated language-learning tool for L2 learners tomaster different sub-classes of PA Verbs in both Chinese and English.We believe that all the fractions of the arm movement and actions are per-ceptibly the base for linguistic expressions of human physical actions.
By em-phasizing the specifications of the manners of action as the crucial semanticcomponents embedded in the verb roots, Gao [1] provided a demonstration ofher decomposition method for the semantic properties of near-synonyms of PAVerbs (see Table 1).
Differences between the members of each subclass aremarked by different notions found in PA Verbs, such as Bodypart Contact,Instrument, Force, Motion Direction, Speed, Effect, and Intention.
These areconsidered to be the most important ones in projecting the lexical semanticprominence in the classifications of a word?s meaning components among itsnear-synonyms.We assume that to thoroughly understand the nuances between the near-synonyms of PA Verbs, the learners need to understand the perspectives fromwhich the action is depicted linguistically.
Gao?s [1] work on semantic decompo-sition of near-synonyms of PA Verbs provides a theoretical guideline and solidground for designing an e-learning tool for L2 learners.316Table 1: Specification of Semantic Properties for Verbs of Touching [1]2 MethodologyA near-synonym database needs to be set up first.
To make the semantic rep-resentations abstract enough for computing purpose, a rule based model will beapplied to quantify the semantic properties of each word.
The following is arule showing how the semantic meaning of the word peng ?touch?
is written inrelation to its other class members.
The rule representation follows a standard-ized English Machinese according to certain conventions in machine translation[2].The rule above can be rendered in words as follows: There is a Chineselexical item peng classified as a physical action verb (pav).
It has three near-synonyms (peng3 ) with 9 semantic property types categorized in relation toits synonyms (smc(c, 9)).
The detailed rule for the 9 categories begins withthe agent?s body part involvement (bp), followed by the instrument used inperforming the action (ins), degree of the force used (for), the motion directionof the action (md), the speed of the motion action (sp), duration of the action317(du), possible patient object that the action is executed on (po), the subjectiveagent?s possible intention to perform the action (int), and the possible effectcaused to the objective patient (eff ).The numbers given in the brackets such as (3/3 ) or (2/3 ) and in the anglebrackets such as <3/3> or <1/3> are mathematical expressions where thedigits in the denominator in both ( ) and < > indicate the number of near-synonyms in the class.
The digit in the numerator in the bracket ( ) refersto the number of the class members that can be labeled as bearing the samesemantic property category, while the digit in the numerator in < > refers to thenumber of the class members that share a particular semantic property specifiedin square brackets [ ].
For instance, the actions depicted by all three near-synonyms of touching verbs involve hand contact as the body part involvementand thus this part of rule is written as {bp<3/3>,[hand]}.The content in { } has a conditional relation: If the number in the numeratoris 3 in brackets < >, then the property specified in [ ], such as [hand] in the bodypart involvement, must be met by all its class members.
If the class memberbears or shares more than one semantic properties within one category, thealternatives are given with a semicolon in between the bracket { }, as typicallyshown in the motion direction (md) of the action.
In the beginning and at theend of the rule representation, brief comments or reminders of the next steprules are given after % as conventionally used in Prolog programming [2].The second step is to calculate the average degree of uniqueness of each wordin each of the 9 categories specified in the rule, representing the relative degreeof easiness or difficulty to differentiate the word from the rest of the groupwithin the category.
Algorithm for calculating the average degree of uniquenessis proposed below:Step 1: For each of the 9 semantic property categories, a priority check isconducted first to look for the digit ?1?
in the numerator in < >.
If ?1?
is foundin the numerator in at least one < >, go to Step 2; otherwise go to Step 3.Step 2: In case of ?1?
found in the numerator in a < >, the average degreeof uniqueness is marked as unit ?1?
, the highest degree of the semantic repre-sentation in revealing the uniqueness of its kind in terms of semantic categories.Step 3: If ?1?
is not found as a unique property within any category, assignthe value of the numerator in each < > as A1, A2,..., An, where n indicates thetotal number of properties that the word owns in each respective category.
Theaverage degree of uniqueness represented by this category can be expressed inthe following formula: (1/n)n?i=11/Ai.The average degree has a maximum value of 1.
For those words whose degreeof uniqueness is lower than 1, the higher the degree of uniqueness, the lower thevalue for n or Ai.
With respect to distinguishing themselves from the rest of theclass members, they have fewer competitors, leading to larger probabilities ofdifferentiating the near-synonyms by the corresponding semantic property.
Thenear-synonym database will contain one main database linked to a number ofsub-tables, which can be more or less than the 9 categories illustrated above,depending on the number of semantic property categories that each class falls318into, or whether the specifications are specified enough to be able to discriminatea particular class of near-synonyms under consideration in the future.
Valuesof uniqueness owned by each word found in each semantic property are storedin the sub-tables.
The average values of uniqueness owned by each word on percategory basis are recorded both in its sub-table and the main table.In creating the algorithm for the interface, the steps are in reverse order ofbuilding up the database.
The total value of uniqueness computed will be com-pared on per category basis.
The category with the highest sum will be chosenas the sub-table for the first attempt of differentiation.
Similarly, a primarycheck of the existence of value ?1?
is conducted in order to give priority to thecategory where most ?1?s are found.
Only when no value ?1?
is found in anyfield could the arithmetic summation be carried out.
Multiple choices questionswill be prompted to allow users to select one property from the category thatmatches his/her context most closely.
The number of the word(s) that matchsuch property will be reflected by the value of the numerator in the <> of thechosen property.
The algorithm will continue to search for the next categorywith the highest degree of uniqueness among the remaining near-synonyms, untilonly one word is selected from the class.3 ConclusionWith a solid ground of linguistic analysis and application of rule based computa-tional methodologies, the e-learning program provides advanced L2 learners withan effective interface in acquiring the nuances among near-synonyms with moreintuitional and cognitive understanding.
This computational system serves asa good starting point for exploring e-teaching and e-learning tools for advancedlearners.AcknowledgementsResearch grants to H. H. Gao and President Research Scholarship to S. Ouyangfrom Nanyang Technological University supported preparation of this paper.References[1] H. H. Gao.
The physical foundation of the patterning of physical actionverbs.
Lund, Sweden: Lund University Press, 2001.
[2] B. Sigurd and H. Gao.
Outline of a computerized chinese grammar enablingenglish and swedish translation.
In Working Papers, volume 47, pages 181?199.
Lund University Press, 1999.319
