Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition, pages 51?58,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsLanguage Diversity across the Consonant Inventories:A Study in the Framework of Complex NetworksMonojit ChoudhuryMicrosoft Research India, Bangalore, India ?
560080Email: monojitc@microsoft.comAnimesh Mukherjee, Anupam Basu and Niloy GangulyIndian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India ?
721302Ashish Garg and Vaibhav JalanMalaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur, India ?
302017AbstractIn this paper, we attempt to explain theemergence of the linguistic diversity thatexists across the consonant inventories ofsome of the major language families of theworld through a complex network basedgrowth model.
There is only a single pa-rameter for this model that is meant tointroduce a small amount of randomnessin the otherwise preferential attachmentbased growth process.
The experimentswith this model parameter indicates thatthe choice of consonants among the lan-guages within a family are far more pref-erential than it is across the families.
Fur-thermore, our observations indicate thatthis parameter might bear a correlationwith the period of existence of the lan-guage families under investigation.
Thesefindings lead us to argue that preferentialattachement seems to be an appropriatehigh level abstraction for language acqui-sition and change.1 IntroductionIn one of their seminal papers (Hauser et al,2002), Noam Chomsky and his co-authors re-marked that if a Martian ever graced our planetthen it would be awe-struck by the unique abil-ity of the humans to communicate among them-selves through the medium of language.
How-ever, if our Martian naturalist were meticulousthen it might also note the surprising co-existenceof 6700 such mutually unintelligible languagesacross the world.
Till date, the terrestrial scientistshave no definitive answer as to why this linguisticdiversity exists (Pinker, 1994).
Previous work inthe area of language evolution has tried to explainthe emergence of this diversity through two differ-ent background models.
The first one assumes thatthere is a set of predefined language configurationsand the movement of a particular language on thislandscape is no more than a random walk (Tom-lin, 1986; Dryer, 1992).
The second line of re-search attempts to relate the ecological, culturaland demographic parameters with the linguisticparameters responsible for this diversity (Arita andTaylor, 1996; Kirby, 1998; Livingstone and Fyfe,1999; Nettle, 1999).
From the above studies, itturns out that linguistic diversity is an outcome ofthe language dynamics in terms of its evolution,acquisition and change.In this work, we attempt to investigate the di-versity that exists across the consonant inventoriesof the world?s languages through an evolutionaryframework based on network growth.
The use ofa network based model is motivated from the factthat in the recent years, complex networks haveproved to be an extremely suitable framework formodeling and studying the structure and dynam-ics of linguistic systems (Cancho and Sole?, 2001;Dorogovtsev and Mendes, 2001; Cancho and Sole?,2004; Sole?
et al, 2005).Along the lines of the study presentedin (Choudhury et al, 2006), we model the struc-ture of the inventories through a bipartite network,which has two different sets of nodes, one la-beled by the languages and the other by the con-sonants.
Edges run in between these two setsdepending on whether a particular consonant isfound in a particular language.
This networkis termed the Phoneme?Language Network orPlaNet in (Choudhury et al, 2006).
We constructfive such networks that respectively represent theconsonant inventories belonging to the five ma-51jor language families namely, the Indo-European(IE-PlaNet), the Afro-Asiatic (AA-PlaNet), theNiger-Congo (NC-PlaNet), the Austronesian (AN-PlaNet) and the Sino-Tibetan (ST-PlaNet).The emergence of the distribution of occurrenceof the consonants across the languages of a fam-ily can be explained through a growth model forthe PlaNet representing the family.
We employ thepreferential attachment based growth model intro-duced in (Choudhury et al, 2006) and later ana-lytically solved in (Peruani et al, 2007) to explainthis emergence for each of the five families.
Themodel involves a single parameter that is essen-tially meant to introduce randomness in the oth-erwise predominantly preferential growth process.We observe that if we combine the inventories forall the families together and then attempt to fit thisnew data with our model, the value of the param-eter is significantly different from that of the in-dividual families.
This indicates that the dynam-ics within the families is quite different from thatacross them.
There are possibly two factors thatregulate this dynamics: the innate preference ofthe speakers towards acquiring certain linguisticstructures over others and shared ancestry of thelanguages within a family.The prime contribution of this paper lies in themathematical model that naturally captures andquantifies the diversification process of the lan-guage inventories.
This diversification, which isarguably an effect of language acquisition andchange, can be viewed as a manifestation of theprocess of preferential attachment at a higher levelof abstraction.The rest of the paper is laid out as follows.
Sec-tion 2 states the definition of PlaNet, briefly de-scribes the data source and outlines the construc-tion procedure for the five networks.
In section 3we review the growth model for the networks.
Theexperiments and the results are explained in thenext section.
Section 5 concludes the paper by ex-plaining how preferential attachment could possi-bly model the phenomena of language acquisition,change and evolution.2 Definition and Construction of theNetworksIn this section, we revisit the definition of PlaNet,discuss briefly about the data source, and explainhow we constructed the networks for each of thefamilies.Figure 1: Illustration of the nodes and edges ofPlaNet.2.1 Definition of PlaNetPlaNet is a bipartite graph G = ?
VL,VC ,Epl ?
con-sisting of two sets of nodes namely, VL (labeledby the languages) and VC (labeled by the conso-nants); Epl is the set of edges running between VLand VC .
There is an edge e ?
Epl from a nodevl ?
VL to a node vc ?
VC iff the consonant c ispresent in the inventory of the language l. Figure 1illustrates the nodes and edges of PlaNet.2.2 Data SourceWe use the UCLA Phonological Segment Inven-tory Database (UPSID) (Maddieson, 1984) as thesource of data for this work.
The choice of thisdatabase is motivated by a large number of typo-logical studies (Lindblom and Maddieson, 1988;Ladefoged and Maddieson, 1996; de Boer, 2000;Hinskens and Weijer, 2003) that have been car-ried out on it by earlier researchers.
It is a wellknown fact that UPSID suffers from several prob-lems, especially those involving representationalissues (Vaux and Samuels, 2005).
Therefore,any analysis carried on UPSID and the inferencesdrawn from them are subject to questions.
How-ever, the current analysis requires a large amountof segment inventory data and to the best of ourknowledge UPSID is the biggest database of thiskind.
Moreover, we would like to emphasize thatthe prime contribution of this work lies in themathematical modeling of the data rather than theresults obtained, which, as we shall see shortly, arenot very surprising or novel.
The current modelapplied to a different database of segment inven-52tories may lead to different results, though we be-lieve that the basic trends will remain similar.
Inessence, the results described here should be takenas indicative and not sacrosanct.There are 317 languages in the database with541 consonants found across them.
From thesedata we manually sort the languages into fivegroups representing the five families.
Note that weincluded a language in any group if and only if wecould find a direct evidence of its presence in thecorresponding family.
A brief description of eachof these groups and languages found within themare listed below (Haspelmath et al, 2005; Gordon,2005).Indo-European: This family includes most of themajor languages of Europe and south, central andsouth-west Asia.
Currently, it has around 3 bil-lion native speakers, which is largest among allthe recognized families of languages in the world.The total number of languages appearing in thisfamily is 449.
The earliest evidences of the Indo-European languages have been found to date 4000years back.Languages ?
Albanian, Lithuanian, Breton, Irish,German, Norwegian, Greek, Bengali, Hindi-Urdu, Kashmiri, Sinhalese, Farsi, Kurdish, Pashto,French, Romanian, Spanish, Russian, Bulgarian.Afro-Asiatic: Afro-Asiatic languages have about200 million native speakers spread over north,east, west, central and south-west Africa.
Thisfamily is divided into five subgroups with a total of375 languages.
The proto-language of this familybegan to diverge into separate branches approxi-mately 6000 years ago.Languages ?
Shilha, Margi, Angas, Dera, Hausa,Kanakuru, Ngizim, Awiya, Somali, Iraqw, Dizi,Kefa, Kullo, Hamer, Arabic, Amharic, Socotri.Niger-Congo: The majority of the languages thatbelong to this family are found in the sub-Saharanparts of Africa.
The number of native speakersis around 300 million and the total number oflanguages is 1514.
This family descends from aproto-language, which dates back 5000 years.Languages ?
Diola, Temne, Wolof, Akan, Amo,Bariba, Beembe, Birom, Cham, Dagbani, Doayo,Efik, Ga, Gbeya, Igbo, Ik, Koma, Lelemi, Senadi,Tampulma, Tarok, Teke, Zande, Zulu, Kadugli,Moro, Bisa, Dan, Bambara, Kpelle.Austronesian: The languages of the Austronesianfamily are widely dispersed throughout the islandsof south-east Asia and the Pacific.
There are 1268Networks |VL| |VC | |Epl|IE-PlaNet 19 148 534AA-PlaNet 17 123 453NC-PlaNet 30 135 692AN-PlaNet 12 82 221ST-PlaNet 9 71 201Table 1: Number of nodes and edges in the fivebipartite networks corresponding to the five fami-lies.languages in this family, which are spoken by apopulation of 6 million native speakers.
Around4000 years back it separated out from its ancestralbranch.Languages ?
Rukai, Tsou, Hawaiian, Iai, Adz-era, Kaliai, Roro, Malagasy, Chamorro, Tagalog,Batak, Javanese.Sino-Tibetan: Most of the languages in this fam-ily are distributed over the entire east Asia.
Witha population of around 2 billion native speakers itranks second after Indo-European.
The total num-ber of languages in this family is 403.
Some of thefirst evidences of this family can be traced 6000years back.Languages ?
Hakka, Mandarin, Taishan, Jingpho,Ao, Karen, Burmese, Lahu, Dafla.2.3 Construction of the NetworksWe use the consonant inventories of the languagesenlisted above to construct the five bipartite net-works ?
IE-PlaNet, AA-PlaNet, NC-PlaNet, AN-PlaNet and ST-PlaNet.
The number of nodes andedges in each of these networks are noted in Ta-ble 1.3 The Growth Model for the NetworksAs mentioned earlier, we employ the growthmodel introduced in (Choudhury et al, 2006) andlater (approximately) solved in (Peruani et al,2007) to explain the emergence of the degree dis-tribution of the consonant nodes for the five bipar-tite networks.
For the purpose of readability, webriefly summarize the idea below.Degree Distribution: The degree of a node v, de-noted by k, is the number of edges incident onv.
The degree distribution is the fraction of nodespk that have a degree equal to k (Newman, 2003).The cumulative degree distribution Pk is the frac-tion of nodes having degree greater than or equalto k. Therefore, if there are N nodes in a network53then,Pk =N?k=k?pk?
(1)Model Description: The model assumes that thesize of the consonant inventories (i.e., the degreeof the language nodes in PlaNet) are known a pri-ori.Let the degree of a language node Li ?
VLbe denoted by di (i.e., di refers to the inventorysize of the language Li in UPSID).
The conso-nant nodes in VC are assumed to be unlabeled, i.e,they are not marked by the articulatory/acousticfeatures (see (Trubetzkoy, 1931) for further refer-ence) that characterize them.
In other words, themodel does not take into account the phonetic sim-ilarity among the segments.
The nodes L1 throughL317 are sorted in the ascending order of their de-grees.
At each time step a node Lj , chosen inorder, preferentially gets connected to dj distinctnodes (call each such node C) of the set VC .
Theprobability Pr(C) with which the node Lj getsconnected to the node C is given by,Pr(C) = k + ???C?
(k?
+ ?
)(2)where k is the current degree of the node C, C ?represents the nodes in VC that are not alreadyconnected to Lj and ?
is the model parameter thatis meant to introduce a small amount of random-ness into the growth process.
The above steps arerepeated until all the language nodes Lj ?
VL getconnected to dj consonant nodes.Intuitively, the model works as follows: If aconsonant is very frequently found in the invento-ries of the languages, then there is a higher chanceof that consonant being included in the inventoryof a ?new language?.
Here the term ?new lan-guage?
can be interpreted either as a new and hith-erto unseen sample from the universal set of lan-guages, or the formation of a new language dueto some form of language change.
The param-eter ?
on the other hand ensures that the conso-nants which are found in none of the languagesfrom the current sample also have a chance of be-ing included in the new language.
It is similar tothe add-?
smoothing used to avoid zero probabil-ities while estimating probability distributions.
Itis easy to see that for very large values of ?
the fre-quency factor will play a very minor role and theconsonants will be chosen randomly by the newlanguage, irrespective of its present prevalence.
Itis natural to ask why and how this particular pro-cess would model the growth of the language in-ventories.
We defer this question until the last sec-tion of the paper, and instead focus on some empir-ical studies to see if the model can really explainthe observed data.Peruani et al (2007) analytically derived an ap-proximate expression for the degree distribution ofthe consonant nodes for this model.
Let the aver-age consonant inventory size be denoted by ?
andthe number of consonant nodes be N. The solu-tion obtained in (Peruani et al, 2007) is based onthe assumption that at each time step t, a languagenode gets attached to ?
consonant nodes, follow-ing the distribution Pr(C).
Under the above as-sumptions, the degree distribution pk,t for the con-sonant nodes, obtained by solving the model, is a?-distribution as followspk,t ' A(kt)?
?1 (1?
kt)N??
??
?1 (3)where A is a constant term.
Using equations 1and 3 one can easily compute the value of Pk,t.There is a subtle point that needs a mentionhere.
The concept of a time step is very crucialfor a growing network.
It might refer to the addi-tion of an edge or a node to the network.
Whilethese two concepts coincide when every new nodehas exactly one edge, there are obvious differenceswhen the new node has degree greater than one.The analysis presented in Peruani et al (2007)holds good for the case when only one edge isadded per time step.
However, if the degree of thenew node being introduced to the system is muchless than N , then Eq.
3 is a good approximation ofthe emergent degree distribution for the case whena node with more than one edge is added per timestep.
Therefore, the experiments presented in thenext section attempt to fit the degree distributionof the real networks with Eq.
3 by tuning the pa-rameter ?.4 Experiments and ResultsIn this section, we attempt to fit the degree dis-tribution of the five empirical networks with theexpression for Pk,t described in the previous sec-tion.
For all the experiments we set N = 541, t =number of languages in the family under investi-gation and ?
= average degree of the languagenodes of the PlaNet representing the family underinvestigation, that is, the average inventory size for54Network ?
for least LSE Value of LSEIE-PlaNet 0.055 0.16AA-PlaNet 0.040 0.24NC-PlaNet 0.035 0.19AN-PlaNet 0.030 0.17ST-PlaNet 0.035 0.03Combined-PlaNet 0.070 1.47Table 2: The values of ?
and the least LSE for thedifferent networks.
Combined-PlaNet refers to thenetwork constructed after mixing all the languagesfrom all the families.
For all the experimentsthe family.
Therefore, given the value of k wecan compute pk,t using Eq.
3 if ?
is known, andfrom pk,t we can further compute Pk,t.
In order tofind the best fitting theoretical degree distribution,we vary the value of ?
in steps of 0.005 within therange of 0 to 1 and choose that ?
for which the log-arithmic standard error1 (LSE) between the the-oretical degree distribution and the epirically ob-served degree distribution of the real network andthe equation is least.
LSE is defined as the sum ofthe square of the difference between the logarithmof the ordinate pairs (say y and y?)
for which theabscissas are equal.
The best fits obtained for eachof the five networks are shown in Figure 2.
Thevalues of ?
and the corresponding least LSE foreach of them are noted in Table 2.
We make thefollowing significant and interesting observations.Observation I: The very low value of the parame-ter ?
indicates that the choice of consonants withinthe languages of a family is strongly preferential.In this context, ?
may be thought of as modelingthe (accidental) errors or drifts that can occur dur-ing language transmission.
The fact that the val-ues of ?
across the four major language families,namely Afro-Asiatic,Niger-Congo, Sino-Tibetanand Austronesian, are comparable indicates thatthe rate of error propagation is a universal factorthat is largely constant across the families.
Thevalue of ?
for IE-PlaNet is slightly higher thanthe other four families, which might be an effectof higher diversification within the family due togeographical or socio-political factors.
Neverthe-less, it is still smaller than the ?
of the Combined-1LSE = (log y ?
log y?)2.
We use LSE as the good-ness of the fit because the degree distributions of PlaNets arehighly skewed.
There are very few high degree nodes and alarge number of low degree nodes.
The logarithmic error en-sures that even very small errors made while fitting the highdegrees are penalized equally as compared to that of the lowdegrees.
Standard error would not capture this fact and de-clare a fit as good if it is able to replicate the distribution forlow degrees, but fits the high degrees poorly .PlaNet.The optimal ?
obtained for Combined-PlaNet ishigher than that of all the families (see Table 2),though it is comparable to the Indo-EuropeanPlaNet.
This points to the fact that the choiceof consonants within the languages of a family isfar more preferential than it is across the families;this fact is possibly an outcome of shared ances-try.
In other words, the inventories of geneticallyrelated languages are similar (i.e., they share a lotof consonants) because they have evolved from thesame parent language through a series of linguis-tic changes, and the chances that they use a largenumber of consonants used by the parent languageis naturally high.Observation II: We observe a very interestingrelationship between the approximate age of thelanguage family and the values of ?
obtained ineach case (see Table 3).
The only anomaly is theIndo-European branch, which possibly indicatesthat this might be much older than it is believedto be.
In fact, a recent study (Balter, 2003) hasshown that the age of this family dates back to8000 years.
If this last argument is assumed tobe true then the values of ?
have a one-to-one cor-respondence with the approximate period of ex-istence of the language families.
As a matter offact, this correlation can be intuitively justified ?the higher is the period of existence of a family, thehigher are the chances of transmission errors lead-ing to its diversification into smaller subgroups,and hence, the values of ?
comes out to be morefor the older families.
It should be noted that thedifference between the values of ?
for the languagefamilies are not significant2.
Therefore, the afore-mentioned observation should be interpreted onlyas an interesting possibility; more experimentationis required for making any stronger claim.4.1 Control ExperimentHow could one be sure that the aforementionedobservations are not an obvious outcome of theconstruction of the PlaNet or some spurious cor-relations?
To this end, we conduct a control ex-periment where a set of inventories is randomlyselected from UPSID to represent a family.
The2Note that in order to obtain the best fit for the cumulativedistribution, ?
has been varied in steps of 0.005.
Therefore,the values of ?
in Table 2 cannot be more accurate than ?
?0.005.
However, in many cases the difference between thebest-fit ?
for two language families is exactly 0.005, whichindicates that the difference is not significant.55Figure 2: The degree distribution of the different real networks (black dots) along with the fits obtainedfrom the equation for the optimal values of ?
(grey lines).Families Age (in years) ?Austronasean 4000 0.030Niger-Congo 5000 0.035Sino-Tibetan 6000 0.035Afro-Asiatic 6000 0.040Indo-European 4000 (or 8000) 0.055Table 3: Table showing the relationship betweenthe age of a family and the value of ?.number of languages chosen is the same as that ofthe PlaNets of the various language families.
Weobserve that the average value of ?
for these ran-domly constructed PlaNets is 0.068, which, as onewould expect, is close to that of the Combined-PlaNet.
This reinforces the fact that the inherentproximity among the languages of a real family isnot due to chance.4.2 Correlation between FamiliesIt can be shown theoretically that if we merge twoPlaNets (say PlaNet1 and PlaNet2) synthesized us-ing the growth model described here using param-eters ?1 and ?2, then the ?
of the combined PlaNetcan be much greater than both ?1 and ?2 whenthere is a low correlation between the degrees ofthe consonant nodes between the two PlaNets.This can be understood as follows.
Suppose thatthe consonant /k/ is very frequent (i.e., has a highdegree) in PlaNet1, but the consonant /m/ is not.On the other hand suppose that /m/ is very fre-quenct in PlaNeT2, but /k/ is not.
In the combinedPlaNet the degrees of /m/ and /k/ will even out andthe degree distribution will therefore, be much lessskewed than the original degree distributions ofPlaNet1 and PlaNet2.
This is equivalent to the factthat while ?1 and ?2 were very small, the ?
of thecombined PlaNet is quite high.
By the same logicit follows that if the degrees of the consonants arehighly correlated in PlaNet1 and PlaNet2, then thecombined PlaNet will have an ?
that is compara-ble in magnitude to ?1 and ?2.
The fact that the?
for the Combined-PlaNet is higher than that offamily-specific PlaNets, therefore, implies that thecorrelation between the frequencies of the conso-nants across language families is not very high.In order to verify the above observation we esti-mate the correlation between the frequency of oc-currence of the consonants for the different lan-guage family pairs (i.e., how the frequencies ofthe consonants /p/, /t/, /k/, /m/, /n/ .
.
.
are corre-lated across the different families).
Table 4 notesthe value of this correlation among the five fami-lies.
The values in Table 4 indicate that, in general,the families are somewhat weakly correlated witheach other, the average correlation being ?
0.47.Note that, the correlation between the Afro-Asiatic and the Niger-Congo families is high notonly because they share the same African origin,but also due to higher chances of language con-tacts among their groups of speakers.
On the otherhand, the Indo-European and the Sino-Tibetanfamilies show least correlation because it is usu-56Families IE AA NC AN STIE ?
0.49 0.48 0.42 0.25AA 0.49 ?
0.66 0.53 0.43NC 0.48 0.66 ?
0.55 0.37AN 0.42 0.53 0.55 ?
0.50ST 0.25 0.43 0.37 0.50 ?Table 4: The Pearson?s correlation between thefrequency distributions obtained for the familypairs.
IE: Indo-European, AA: Afro-Asiatic,NC: Niger-Congo, AN: Austronesian, ST: Sino-Tibetan.ally believed that they share absolutely no geneticconnections.
Interestingly, similar trends are ob-served for the values of the parameter ?.
If wecombine the languages of the Afro-Asiatic and theNiger-Congo families and try to fit the new datathen ?
turns out to be 0.035 while if we do the samefor the Indo-European and the Sino-Tibetan fam-ilies then ?
is 0.058.
For many of the other com-binations the value of ?
and the correlation coeffi-cient have a one-to-one correspondence.
However,there are clear exceptions also.
For instance, if wecombine the Afro-Asiatic and the Indo-Europeanfamilies then the value of ?
is very low (close to0.04) although the correlation between them is notvery high.
The reasons for these exceptions shouldbe interesting and we plan to further explore thisissue in future.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a method of networkevolution to capture the emergence of linguisticdiversity that manifests in the five major languagefamilies of the world.
How does the growth model,if at all, captures the process of language dynam-ics?
We argue that preferential attachment is ahigh level abstraction of language acquisition aswell as language change.
We sketch out two pos-sible explanations for this fact, both of which aremerely speculations at this point and call for de-tailed experimentation.It is a well known fact that the process of lan-guage acquisition by an individual largely gov-erns the course of language change in a linguis-tic community.
In the initial years of languagedevelopment every child passes through a stagecalled babbling during which he/she learns to pro-duce non-meaningful sequences of consonants andvowels, some of which are not even used in thelanguage to which they are exposed (Jakobson,1968; Locke, 1983).
Clear preferences can beobserved for learning certain sounds such as plo-sives and nasals, whereas fricatives and liquids areavoided.
In fact, this hierarchy of preference dur-ing the babbling stage follows the cross-linguisticfrequency distribution of the consonants.
This in-nate frequency dependent preference towards cer-tain phonemes might be because of phonetic rea-sons (i.e., for articulatory/perceptual benefits).
Itcan be argued that in the current model, this in-nate preference gets captured through the processof preferential attachment.An alternative explanation could be conceivedof based on the phenomenon of language trans-mission.
Let there be a community of N speak-ers communicating among themselves by meansof only two consonants say /k/ and /g/.
Let thenumber of /k/ speakers be m and that of /g/ speak-ers be n. If we assume that each speaker has l de-scendants and that language inventories are trans-mitted with high fidelity then after i generations,the number of /k/ speakers should be mli and thatof /g/ speakers should be nli.
Now if m > nand l > 1 then for sufficiently large values of iwe have mli ?
nli.
Stated differently, the /k/speakers by far outnumbers the /g/ speakers after afew generations even though the initial differencebetween them is quite small.
This phenomenonis similar to that of preferential attachment wherelanguage communities get attached to, i.e., selectconsonants that are already highly preferred.
Inthis context ?
can be thought to model the acciden-tal errors during transmission.
Since these errorsaccumulate over time, this can intuitively explainwhy older language families have a higher valueof ?
than the younger ones.In fact, preferential attachment (PA) is a uni-versally observed evolutionary mechanism thatis known to shape several physical, biologicaland socio-economic systems (Newman, 2003).This phenomenon has also been called for to ex-plain various linguistic phenomena (Choudhuryand Mukherjee, to appear).
We believe that PAalso provides a suitable abstraction for the mech-anism of language acquisition.
Acquisition of vo-cabulary and growth of the mental lexicon are fewexamples of PA in language acquisition.
Thiswork illustrates another variant of PA applied toexplain the structure of consonant inventories andtheir diversification across the language families.57ReferencesT.
Arita and C. E. Taylor.
1996.
A simple modelfor the evolution of communication.
In L. J. Fo-gel, P. J. Angeline and T. Ba?ck, editors, The FifthAnnual Conference On Evolutionary Programming,405?410.
MIT Press.M.
Balter.
2003.
Early date for the birth of Indo-European languages.
Science 302(5650), 1490.A.-L. Baraba?si and R. Albert.
1999.
Emergence ofscaling in random networks.
Science 286, 509-512.D.
Bickerton.
1990.
Language and Species, The Uni-versity of Chicago Press, Chicago.B.
de Boer.
2000.
Self-organization in vowel systems.Journal of Phonetics, 28(4), 441?465.R.
Ferrer i Cancho and R. V. Sole?.
2001.
The small-world of human language.
Proceedings of the RoyalSociety of London, Series B, Biological Sciences,268(1482), 1228?1235.R.
Ferrer i Cancho and R. V. Sole?.
2004.
Patternsin syntactic dependency networks.
Phys.
Rev.
E,69(051915).R.
G. Gordon (ed.)
2005.
Ethnologue: Languages ofthe World, Fifteenth edition, SIL International.M.
Haspelmath, M. S. Dryer, D. Gil and B.
Comrie(ed.)
2005.
World Atlas of Language Structures,Oxford University Press.M.
Choudhury, A. Mukherjee, A. Basu and N. Gan-guly.
2006.
Analysis and synthesis of the distri-bution of consonants over languages: A complexnetwork approach.
Proceedings of the 21st Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics and44th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, Main Conference Poster Ses-sions, 128?135.M.
Choudhury and A. Mukherjee.
to appear.
Thestructure and dynamics of linguistic networks.
In N.Ganguly, A. Deutsch and A. Mukherjee, editors, Dy-namics on and of Complex Networks: Applicationsto Biology, Computer Science, Economics, and theSocial Sciences, Birkhauser, Springer, Boston.S.
N. Dorogovtsev and J. F. F. Mendes.
2001.
Lan-guage as an evolving word web.
Proceedings of theRoyal Society of London, Series B, Biological Sci-ences, 268(1485), 2603?2606.M.
S. Dryer.
1992.
The Greenbergian word order cor-relations.
Language, 68, 81?138.M.
D. Hauser, N. Chomsky and W. T. Fitch.
2002.
Thefaculty of language: What is it, who has it, and howdid it evolve?
Science, 298, 1569?1579.F.
Hinskens and J. Weijer.
2003.
Patterns of segmen-tal modification in consonant inventories: a cross-linguistic study.
Linguistics, 41(6), 1041?1084.R.
Jakobson.
1968.
Child Language, Aphasia andPhonological Universals.
The Hague: Mouton.H.
Jeong, B. Tombor, R. Albert, Z. N. Oltvai and A.L.
Baraba?si.
2000.
The large-scale organization ofmetabolic networks.
Nature, 406, 651-654.S.
Kirby.
1998.
Fitness and the selective adaptationof language.
In J. R. Hurford, M. Studdert-Kennedyand C. Knight, editors, Approaches to the Evolutionof Language: Social and Cognitive Bases, 359?383.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.P.
Ladefoged and I. Maddieson.
1996.
Sounds of theWorlds Languages, Oxford: Blackwell.B.
Lindblom and I. Maddieson.
1988.
Phonetic univer-sals in consonant systems.
In L.M.
Hyman and C.N.Li, eds., Language, Speech, and Mind, Routledge,London, 62?78.D.
Livingstone and C. Fyfe.
1999.
Modelling theevolution of linguistic diversity.
In D. Floreano, J.Nicoud and F. Mondada, editors, ECAL 99, 704?708, Berlin: Springer-Verlag.J.
L. Locke.
1983.
Phonological Acquisition andChange.
Academic Press New York.I.
Maddieson.
1984.
Patterns of Sounds, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.D.
Nettle.
1999.
Is the rate of linguistic change con-stant?
Lingua, 108(2):119?136.M.
E. J. Newman.
2001.
Scientific collaboration net-works.
Physical Review E 64, 016131.M.
E. J. Newman.
2003.
The structure and function ofcomplex networks.
SIAM Review 45, 167?256.F.
Peruani, M. Choudhury, A. Mukherjee and N. Gan-guly.
2007.
Emergence of a non-scaling degree dis-tribution in bipartite networks: a numerical and ana-lytical study.
Euro.
Phys.
Letters 76, 28001 (p1?p6).S.
Pinker.
1994.
The Language Instinct, New York:William Morrow.E.
Pulleyblank.
1993.
The typology of Indo-European.Journal of Indo-European Studies, p. 109.Jose?
J. Ramasco, S. N. Dorogovtsev, and RomualdoPastor-Satorras.
2004.
Self-organization of collabo-ration networks.
Physical Review E, 70, 036106.R.
V. Sole?
, B. C. Murtra, S. Valverde and L. Steels.2005.
Language networks: Their structure, functionand evolution.
Santa Fe working paper, 05-12-042.R.
Tomlin.
1986.
Basic Word Order: Functional Prin-ciples, Croom Helm, London.N.
Trubetzkoy.
1931.
Die phonologischen systeme.TCLP 4, 96?116.B.
Vaux and B. Samuel.
2005.
Laryngeal markednessand aspiration Phonology 22(3), 96?116.58
