Proceedings of EACL 2009 Workshop on Semantic Representation of Spoken Language - SRSL 2009, pages 26?33,Athens, Greece, 30 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic Representation of Non-Sentential Utterances in DialogSilvie Cinkov?Charles University in PragueFaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsInstitute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsMalostransk?
n?m?st?
25CZ-118 00 Praha 1cinkova@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractBeing confronted with spontaneousspeech, our current annotation schemerequires alterations that would reflect theabundant use of non-sentential fragmentswith clausal meaning tightly connected totheir context, which do not systematicallyoccur in written texts.
The purpose of thispaper is to list the common patterns ofnon-sentential fragments and their con-texts and to find a smooth resolution oftheir semantic annotation.1 IntroductionSpontaneous speech, even assuming a perfectASR, is hard to parse because of the enormousoccurrence of disfluencies and syntactic devia-tions.
Some disfluencies can be regarded asspeaker?s errors, which are being corrected orremain uncorrected during the speaker?s turn.Such disfluencies are e.g.:?
stammering (We w-went thereto-together)?
restart with or without an interregnum(John no sorry Jane wasthere, too)?
repetitions (So you like youlike drinking)?
hesitation sounds, long silence, fillers,filler phrases, etc.
(EH so ... youkinda like you know HMMdrinking)In NLP, such disfluencies can be removed be-fore any syntactic or semantic processing sincethey cause confusion without adding any seman-tic information.
In machine-learning tasks, dis-fluency is sought to be automatically removed bylearning from disfluency-marked corpora or cor-pora of text edits (Haji?
et al, 2008; Fitzgeraldand Jelinek, 2008) to smooth the input text intowritten-language standard before parsing.On the other hand, there is another sort of dis-fluencies, which do not disturb the course of thedialog, namely contextual ellipsis: even thoughmost people remember being taught at school toanswer questions with a complete sentence, noteven educated speakers performing a sophisti-cated dialog always do so, and yet they do notsound incorrect.
Clearly, an extensive use of el-lipsis is an inherent feature of verbal interactionbetween speakers, which is usually smoothlyperceived by the listener and thus all right in itsplace.Such ?fragmentary utterances that do not havethe form of a full sentence according to most tra-ditional grammars, but that nevertheless conveya complete clausal meaning?
are called non-sentential utterances (NSUs)1.
A consistentreconstruction of their clausal meaning is inevi-table for any semantic representation of dialogs.The present paper describes a tentative semanticrepresentation of NSUs in the Functional Gen-erative Description (FGD) framework (Sgall etal., 1986).1 The term NSU as well as its definition comes fromFern?ndez et al, 2007.262 NSUs in PhotoPal Dialogs2.1 NSU taxonomyFern?ndez et al (2007) introduce a taxonomy ofNSUs based on the dialog transcripts from BNC(Burnard, 2000).
They stress that NSUs are notlimited to question-answer pairs but can appearas responses to any preceding utterance.
Our ob-servations confirm this.
NSUs are highly am-biguous without context.
Consider the followingexample:A: I left it on the table.B: On the table.I confirm/I understandwhat you say: you left it onthe table.A: Where did you leave it?B: On the table.I answer your question: Ileft it on the table.A: I think I put it er...B: On the table.I know in advance whatyou want to say or what youwould want to say if youknew that.A: Should I put it back onthe shelf?B: On the table.No, don?t put it back onthe shelf, but put it on thetable instead.If reconstructed into a complete sentence, theNSU would get different shapes in the respectivecontexts (see the paraphrases in italics).The NSU taxonomy proposed by Fern?ndez etal.
(2007) divides the NSUs into 15 classes:?
Clarification Ellipsis (Two people[did you say were there]?)?
Check Question ([...]Okay?)?
Reprise Sluice (What[did you say]?)?
Direct Sluice (What?/Who?/When?)?
Short Answer [to wh-question] (MyAunty Peggy.)?
Plain Affirmative Answer / Rejection(Yes.
/ No.)?
Repeated Affirmative Answer (Veryloud, yes.)?
Helpful Rejection (No, Billy.)?
Plain Acknowledgement (Mhm.)?
Repeated Acknowledgement (part of thepreceding segment repeated)?
Propositional and Factual Modifiers(Probably not.
/ Oh,great!)?
Bare Modifier Phrase (adjuncts modify-ing a contextual utterance)?
Conjunct (fragments introduced by con-junctions)?
Filler (fragments filling a gap left by aprevious unfinished utterance)2.2 PhotoPal Dialog CorporaOur goal is semantically annotated spoken con-versations between two speakers over a familyalbum.
One English corpus (NAP) and oneCzech corpus have been built within the Com-panions project (www.companions-project.org)as gold-standard data for a machine-learningbased dialog system (?PhotoPal?)
that should beable to handle a natural-like conversation with ahuman user, helping to sort the user?s photo-graphs and encouraging the user to reminisce.The PhotoPal is supposed to keep track of thementioned entities as well as to make some in-ferences.The NAP corpus (Bradley et al, 2008) com-prises about 200k tokens of literal manual tran-scriptions of audio recordings, which are inter-linked with a multiple disfluency annotation(Cinkov?
et al, 2008).
The Czech PhotoPal cor-pus is still growing (Haji?
et al, 2009), compris-ing about 200k tokens at the moment (includingdouble annotation).To ease the understanding, all authentic cor-pus examples will be taken from the EnglishNAP corpus.
However, most examples in thispaper are taken from Fern?ndez et al (2007) andmodified when needed to illustrate a contrast.3 Semantic representation of NAPNSUs3.1 Functional Generative DescriptionThe Functional Generative Description (FGD) isa stratified formal language description based onthe structuralist tradition, developed since the271960?s.
The unique contribution of FGD is theso-called tectogrammatical representation (TR).It is being implemented in a family of semanti-cally annotated treebanks.3.2 Tectogrammatical RepresentationBeing conceived as an underlying syntactic rep-resentation, the TR captures the linguistic mean-ing of the sentence, which is its basic descriptionunit.
In the TR annotation, each sentence is rep-resented as a projective dependency tree withnodes and edges.
The attribute values includereferences to the analytical (surface-syntax)layer.
Only content words are represented bynodes.
Function words are represented as attrib-ute values.
Each node has a semantic label(?functor?
), which renders the semantic relationof the given node to its parent node.
The TR an-notation captures the following aspects of text:?
syntactic and semantic dependencies?
argument structure (data interlinked witha lexicon)?
information structure (topic-focus articu-lation)?
grammatical and contextual coreference?
ellipsis restoration.Fig.
1 shows a sentence with restored ellipsis.The elided predicate in the second conjunct wascopied from the first conjunct predicate (copiedand generated nodes have square shape).Fig.1 Mary prepared the lunch, and John [prepared] thedinner.3.3 Ellipsis Restoration and ContextualCoreferenceAssumingly, any tectogrammatical representa-tion of NSUs is about the most appropriate reso-lution of contextual ellipsis and coreference.TR distinguishes two types of ellipsis:?
contextual ellipsis, i.e.
ellipsis occurringwhen the lexical content of the omittedelement is clear from the context andeasily recoverable.
The speaker omittedthis element, since he considered itsrepetition unnecessary.?
grammatical ellipsis, i.e.
such ellipsisthat occurs when the elided element can-not appear on the surface for grammati-cal reasons but is cognitively present inthe meaning of the utterance (e.g.
theunexpressed subject of controlled infini-tives).Every occurrence of a given verb must corre-spond to the appropriate lexicon frame.
Anyobligatory arguments missing must be filled in asnode substitutes even if the node could be copiedfrom the context.
The substitutes have speciallemmas according to their function.Fig.
2 illustrates a contextual ellipsis of a de-pendent node.
The tree represents the answer: Hehas [wrapped the book] to the ques-tion: Has the shop assistantwrapped the book?
In fact, the tree ren-ders the sentence He has.
To complete the ar-gument structure frame of the verb wrap, thenode book with the Patient semantic label isinserted into the frame in form of a node with thet-lemma substitute for personal pronoun(#PersPron, square node) exactly in thesame way as the expressed he.
The node-constituting lexical verb wrap is copied from theprevious sentence as a square node while hasbecomes its attribute value, since it is an auxil-iary verb.
The subject He is only converted intothe #PersPron substitute (with appropriatevalues inside).Fig.
2 He has [wrapped the book].In the complete TR annotation, a contextual-coreference arrow would lead from the28#PersPron nodes to their antecedent nodes inthe previous sentence (to assistant andbook, respectively).3.4 Basic Principles of  NSU Representationin TRThe effort to reconstruct the clausal meaning ofnon-sentential utterances was motivated by thefollowing basic assumptions:?
The text contains utterance-responsepairs.?
NSU is the response to an utterance U2.?
The utterance U has a finite-verb predi-cate UPred with or without modifiers(arguments and adjuncts) UMods, whichcan be assigned functors.?
Even UPred can be an elided predicate.?
All NSUs (except interjections but incl.plain yes and no) contain an implicit(elided) predicate NSUPred.
NSUPred iseither identical with UPred, or it is anunknown verb, but we can imagine howit relates NSU and U.?
NSU can be attached to a finite clause.?
NSU inherits UPred along with allUMods.?
When there is a semantic conflict,NSUMods overrule the inherited implicitUMods in NSU (repetition is also re-garded as conflict).?
NSUMod overrules UMod in the highestposition possible in the subtree.3.5 TR Representation Elements for NSUThis annotation introduced a new category intothe annotation scheme.
We called the categoryresponse_type and designed it in the same way asthe coreference annotation.
It is visualized asarrows of various colors pointing from NSUModto UMod.
Each type is indicated by a differentcolor.The utterance-response pair consists of twoparts: the antecedent utterance U and the re-sponse NSU.
The finite verb predicate UPred istypically the effective root of U, which has thefunctor PRED, but not necessarily.
On the otherhand, the elided predicate of NSU, called NSU-2 NSU is regarded as a response even if U is a statement andNSU a question.Pred, is the effective root of NSU and has thefunctor PRED.
Fig.
3 describes U in more detail.Fig 3.
Utterance-response pair.Whenever the clausal meaning of NSU can bereconstructed by using the copy of UPred aspredicate, the t-lemma substitute for NSUPred is#VerbPron, which is normally also used forthe pro-form do (dummy-do).
NSUPred is al-ways linked to UPred by a contextual-coreference arrow.
When the clausal meaning ofNSU cannot be directly reconstructed by usingthe copy of UPred as the predicate, NSUPred isrendered as the coreference-less t-lemma substi-tute #EmpVerb, which is normally used forcases of grammatical ellipsis of the predicate.#EmpVerb has no obligatory arguments andinherits no modifiers from anywhere.
An NSU-Pred that has coreference inherits all modifiersfrom UPred, but these are not explicitly copied toNSUPred.
NSUPred?s own arguments are re-garded as added to the inherited modifiers.Hence the NSU ?Peggy.?
does not have to beexplicitly reconstructed as ?That isPeggy.?
(the left figure in Fig.4), but just withthe coreferential predicate (the right figure).Fig.
4 Response NSU: Full explanative reconstruction(left) and the actual annotation resolution (right).29Obviously, NSUMods can be in a semanticconflict with the inherited UMods.
These casesare marked by several types of arrows leadingfrom the given NSUMod to the conflictingUMod in the antecedent utterance U.
We distin-guish four types of semantic conflict betweenNSUMod and UMod:?
overruling?
rephrasing?
wh-path?
other3.6  OverrulingOverruling is the most typical semantic conflictwhere an NSUMod gives exactly the same typeof information, but relating to a different entityin the real world.
If NSU is to be expressed as aclause that uses the predicate of U, the conflict-ing UMod is erased (or prevented from inherit-ing) by the explicitly present NSUMod.
E.g.
inthe following utterance-response pair:U: I?m in a little placecalled Hellenthorpe.NSU: Ellenthorpe.NSU-paraphrase: You are in alittle place called Hellen-thorpe Ellenthorpe.Even the explicit repetition is regarded as over-ruling:U: There were just two peo-ple in the class.NSU: Two people?.NSU-paraphrase: Were therejust two people two peoplein the class?In the tree representation, the crossed text wouldbe visible only in the tree of U, and an overrul-ing-reference arrow would point at them fromthe relevant NSUMod.
This conception preventsdoubling the same modifier in NSU.3.7 RephrasingWhen an NSUMod is rephrasing an UMod, thenUMod and NSUMod refer to the same entity inthe real world, or one refers to the entire entitywhereas the other one refers only to its part, etc.,using a different wording.
The NSUMod-UModrelation marked as rephrasing is meant to be-come the starting material for bridging anaphoraresearch.
Example:U: There were just two peo-ple in the class.NSU: Just two students?NSU-paraphrase: Were therejust two people two studentsin the class?It is also applied when the context is unambigu-ous for the speakers but ambiguous for the anno-tator, who lacks their background knowledge ofthe given situation.
In the following example theannotator may not know whether this partor just the end of this part should come up,because he does not see the speakers pointing atthe crane, but it is rather evident that it is not acompletely different part of the crane but some-thing at the end of it:U1: You lift the crane, sothis part comes up.NSU1/U2: The end?NSU1/U2-paraphrase1: Do youmean the end comes up?NSU1/U2-paraphrase2: Do youmean the end of this partcomes up?NSU2/U3: Just this.NSU3: Okay.The category ?Other?
(see below) is thoughstrongly preferred in ambiguous cases.3.8 Wh-path3The wh-path relation is the relation between themodifier that is focused by a wh-word in an Uthat is a direct or indirect question and a NSU-Mod that makes a good answer.Overruling as well as rephrasing assume thatthe conflicting modifiers have the same functor.The wh-path category is different from the othersin that it allows setting in conflict a UMod withan NSUMod with different semantic labels(functors).
Our tentative annotation suggests thatregular patterns will occur; e.g.
with the questionabout direction/location.
When asking where,speakers often get replies that would actuallymatch questions with whom (functor ACMP)or with which intention (functor INTT,3 The term was found in Haji?ov?
(1995) and reusedby placing it in context with other response types.30e.g., go shopping), and yet they are per-ceived as good answers.The relation between an utterance U which isa statement and an NSU which is a sluice is notwh-path but overruling.
Cf.
:U: Where would you like togo tomorrow?NSU: Downtown with Mary, todo some shopping.
(wh-path)U: I would like to go down-town with Mary tomorrow.NSU: Where?
(overruling)Sluices are not regarded as ambiguous in thesense whether referring to the same entity as thecorresponding wh-word or not.
They are not eli-gible for the relation ?other?
(see next section).3.9 Other?Other?
is meant for inherently ambiguous casesof conflicting UMod and NSUMod where it isimpossible to decide whether NSUMod is re-phrasing or overruling UMod.
Textual ambiguityarises when NSU is a question that does not finda proper answer in the context:U1: He?s got the best room.NSU1/U2: Room 128?NSU1/U2-paraphrase: Has hegot the best room Room 128?U3: I don?t know which num-ber.3.10 TR-Conditioned Criteria for NSU typesThe original idea of the tectogrammatical repre-sentation of NSU was to adopt the taxonomyproposed by Fern?ndez et al (2007).
However,the rules of TR made some classes collapse asthey yielded identical tectogrammatical treestructures.
The main criteria for tectogrammati-cal representation of NSU were the following:Is the NSU a phrase or just an interjection?
(Cf.Fig.
5 and 6)?
If it is a content word or a phrase, itshould be reconstructed into a clause byadding a predicate.?
If it is an interjection except yes and no(and their colloquial variants), no predi-cate is added.?
If it is yes/no (and variants), a predi-cate should be added.?
If the interjection acts as a backchannel,yes and no make no exception.Fig.
5 InterjectionFig.
6 Is this John?
No, Billy [This is not John, this is Billy.
]Can we copy UPred to make NSU a clause??
If we can, NSUPred has the t-lemmasubstitute #VerbPron and a corefer-ential arrow points from NSUPred toUPred.?
If we cannot, NSUPred has the t-lemma#EmpVerb with no coreferential arrow.No response type arrows point fromNSUMods to UMods.
In specific casesthe coreference to UPred leads fromelsewhere (Fig.7).31Fig.
7 Check question/Evaluative response related to text:U: I am allowed to record you.NSU (same speaker): Okay?NSU-paraphrase: Is it (that I?m allowedto record you) okay?orU: I am allowed to record you.NSU (turn switch): Okay.NSU-paraphrase: It <is> okay that youare allowed to record me.3.11 More Examples of U-NSU relation reso-lutionFern?ndez et al (2007) distinguish two types ofsluice: the direct and the reprise sluice.
In TR,each has a different semantic representation.
Thedirect sluice has the coreferential predicate whilethe reprise sluice, which can be paraphrased asWhat did you mean by sayingthis?,  has the empty-verb predicate and thewh-word gets the functor EFF, which is normallyassigned to what is being said in the argumentstructure pattern of verbs of saying (Fig.
8).Fig.
8 Reprise sluiceFig.
9 shows a sentence with wh-path linkingmodifiers with different functors.Fig.
9 Wh-path linking Mods with different functorsU: Where would you like to go tomorrow?NSU: Shopping with Mary.NSU-paraphrase: Tomorrow I would like togo shopping with Mary.Choice questions (Fig.10) represent an interest-ing example in which one NSUMod can enterdifferent relations to different UMods.
TheNSUMod beer overrules the coordinated UModCoke or Pepsi, and at the same time it isconnected with the wh-question Which doyou like to drink?
by wh-path.Fig.
10 Choice question.U: Which do you like to drink: Coke orPepsi?NSU: Beer.NSU-paraphrase: I like to drink beer.Seeing the many rephrasing cases in the data,which are supposed to be subject to furtheranaphora annotation (bridging etc.
), we had toask the question whether the boundary betweenresponse_type and coreference can be reliablydetermined.
We found good evidence in themade-up but not unlikely example below (Fig.3211).
In this context, him will be coreferentialwith Paul and her will be coreferential withMary.
On the other hand, him will overruleMary and her will overrule Paul (only therelations of him are marked in the figure).Fig.
11 Coreference vs. response type3.12 Current and Future WorkThe proposed enhancement of the annotationscheme has been tested on a corpus of approx.200 NSUs with context manually extracted fromthe NAP transcripts as well as on example sen-tences from Fern?ndez et al (2007) and manysentences obtained by their modification per-formed in order to get potentially difficult coun-terexamples.
As this is still a preparatory work,neither the inter-annotator agreement nor anyother evaluation could be done so far.In the next future, parts of the spoken corporashould get tectogrammatical parsing.
The manualannotation is supposed to adopt this new featureof the annotation scheme, and we will try to in-corporate it into our statistically trained auto-matic parsing tools.ConclusionThe confrontation of our current annotationscheme with spoken dialog data has raised issuesof ellipsis restoration and textual coreference innon-sentential utterances.
We have found com-mon relations between non-sentential utterancesand their contexts, and we have integrated theminto our semantic annotation scheme withoutviolating its general principles.
A tentative man-ual annotation of these relations in a small corpussuggests that such annotation is feasible.
Furtherinvestigation on larger data along with machine-learning experiments is intended.AcknowledgementsThis work was funded in part by the Companionsproject (www.companions-project.org) spon-sored by the European Commission as part of theInformation Society Technologies (IST) pro-gramme under EC grant number IST-FP6-034434, as well as by the Czech Science Founda-tion (GA405/06/0589), and by the Czech Minis-try of Education (MSM0021620838, M?MT ?RLC536).ReferencesJay Bradley, Oli Mival, and D. Benyon.
2008.
ANovel Architecture for Designing by Wizard of Oz.In: Proceeding of CREATE08, British computerSociety, Covent Garden, London, 24-25 June 2008.Lou Burnard.
2000.
Reference Guide for the BritishNational Corpus (World Edition).
Oxford Univer-sity Computing Services.
Available fromftp://sable.ox.ac.uk/pub/ota/BNC.Silvie Cinkov?, Jan Haji?, Jan Pt??ek.
2008.
An An-notation Scheme for Speech Reconstruction on aDialog Corpus.
In Fourth International Workshopon Human-Computer Conversation.
Bellagio, Italy:[http://www.companions-project.org/events/200810_bellagio.cfm],2008:1-6.Raquel Fern?ndez, Jonathan Ginzburg, and ShalomLappin.
2007.
Classifying Non-Sentential Utter-ances in Dialogue: A Machine Learning Approach.Computational Linguistics, Volume 33, Nr.
3.
MITPress for the Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Erin Fitzgerald and Frederick Jelinek.
2008.
Linguis-tic Resources for Reconstructing SpontaneousSpeech Text.
In: LREC 2008 Proceedings.Jan Haji?, Silvie Cinkov?, Marie Mikulov?, Petr Pa-jas, Jan Pt?
?ek, Josef Toman, Zde?ka Ure?ov?.2008.
PDTSL: An Annotated Resource For SpeechReconstruction.
In Proceedings of the 2008 IEEEWorkshop on Spoken Language Technology.IEEE, 2008.Jan Haji?, Marie Mikulov?, Martina Otradovcov?,Petr Pajas, Nino Peterek, Pavel ?e?ka, MiroslavSpousta.
2009.
PDTSL - Prague Dependency Tree-bank of Spoken Language - Czech, Institute ofFormal and Applied Linguistics, Charles Univer-sity in Prague.Eva Haji?ov?
(ed.)
1995.
Text And-Inference-BasedApproach to Question Answering.
Prague.Petr Sgall, Eva Haji?ov?, and Jarmila Panevov?.1986.
The Meaning of the Sentence in Its Semanticand Pragmatic Aspects.
Dordrecht:Reidel Publish-ing Company and Prague:Academia.33
