Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 260?263,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsTowards an Analysis of Opinions in NewsEditorials: How positive was the year?Bal Krishna BalMadan Puraskar Pustakalaya, Lalitpur, PatanDhoka, Nepaland IRIT, 118 route de Narbonne, 31062 Toulouse, Francebal@mpp.org.np1 IntroductionEditorials represent opinion articles written by the publisher, editors orcolumnists of newspapers.
From this perspective, editorials are ideal sourcesfor outlining views on events and analyzing how they are perceived, e.g.whether they are positive or negative or the kind of feelings or analysis theyinvolve (uncertainty, worries, etc.).
The proposed work aims at identifyingthe linguistic criteria and at creating a model for the aforementioned pur-pose, which makes use of an adequate set of semantic tags that we havedefined to annotate texts from which a detailed analysis can be carried out.Currently, the work is in its preliminary stage, primarily focussed ondefining the tags required for the semantic-pragmatic analysis.
In parallelwith the definition of tags and text annotation, we explore ways to constructsynthesis of opinions on a given event from various editorials.
One of thechallenges is to organize the positive and the negative views, and the asso-ciated arguments and their strength.
We noted that opinions in editorialsare not so apparent, which makes synthesis construction a challenging task.2 Opinion Mining as a problemAlthough Opinion Mining has emerged only quite recently as a subdisciplineunder computational linguistics, a considerable amount of work has alreadybeen done in this direction, which include but not limit to (Hearst,1992),(Hatzivassiloglou and Wiebe,2000), (Wilson et al, 2005), (Esuli and Sebas-tiani, 2006) and (Read et al, 2007).
These works range from a variety oftask domains like mining the product reviews available on the web, sen-timent classification of documents, opinion mining and summarization to260much more.
Irrespective of the nature of different specific tasks, OpinionMining generally encompasses the following generic problems: (1) Determin-ing the subjectivity or identifying the subjective and objective expressionsin texts, where subjective expressions are opinions whereas objective onesdenote facts; (2) Determining the orientation or polarity of the subjectiveexpressions.
A first analysis may be just identifying whether an expressionis positive or negative, but in general other dimensions need to be inte-grated since opinions are rarely so vivid; (3) Determining the strength ofthe orientation of the subjective expressions.Our problem of mining editorials falls under the larger task domain ofsentiment classification of documents and this essentially involves the prob-lems 1 and 2 above.
Problem 3 also may be partially applicable dependingupon the type of analysis we would like to have as an end result.3 Linguistic framework and the distinction be-tween facts and opinionsSince editorials are usually a mix of facts and opinions, there is a clear needto make a distinction between them.
Opinions often express an attitudetowards something.
This can be a judgment, a view or a conclusion or evenan opinion about opinion(s).
Different approaches have been suggested todistinguish facts from opinions.
Generally, facts are characteristic for thepresence of certain verbs like ?declare?
and different tense and number formsof the verb ?be?
etc.
Moreover, statements interpreted as facts are generallyaccompanied by some reliable authority providing the evidence of the claim,e.g.
:Fact: Both the two dates announced for the constituent assembly (CA) elec-tions came and went without the vote taking place.Reliable authority: Election Commission for CA elections 2007.Fact: We have fewer people getting killed every day.Reliable authority Nepal Police Department of Crime and Investigation.
(December 2007)Opinions, on the other hand, are characterized by the evaluative expres-sions of various sorts such as the following (Dunworth, 2008):- Presence of evaluative adverbs and adjectives in sentences - ?ugly?
and?disgusting?.- Expressions denoting doubt and probability - ?may be?, ?possibly?, ?prob-ably?, ?perhaps?, ?may?, ?could?
etc.261<expression expression type=?Fact?
opinion type=?Null?
opinion orientation=?Null?
force=?Null?
opin-ion date=?Null?
authority=?Yes?>This was the year Nepal declared itself a Federal Democratic Republic</expression><expression expression type=?Opinion?
opinion type=?Assumptive?
opinion orientation=?Positive?force=?Low?
opinion date=?2007-12-31?
authority=?Null?>,but the decision needs to be endorsed which will probably happen in 2008.</expression> </input>- Presence of epistemic expressions - ?I think?, ?I believe?, ?I feel?, ?In myopinion?
etc.It is obvious that the distinction between the two is not always straight-forward.
Facts could well be opinions in disguise and, in such cases, theintention of the author as well as the reliability of information needs to beverified.
In order to make a finer distinction between facts and opinions andwithin opinions themselves, opinions are proposed for gradation as shownbelow:Opinion type Global definitionHypothesis statements Explains an observation.Theory statements Widely believed explanationAssumptive statements Improvable predictions.Value statements Claims based on personal beliefs.Exaggerated statements Intended to sway readers.Attitude statements Based on implied belief system.4 ResultsFor the purpose of annotation, the following semantic tag set has been de-veloped, subject to further extension or modification in the future.
Thecurrent annotation scheme can be represented as a list of five parametersand their possible values as shown below:Parameter Possible valuesexpression type Fact, Opinion, Undefinedopinion orientation Positive, Negative, Neutralopinion date Date of the editorial publicationforce Low, Average, Highauthority Yes, Average, NoHere, ?force?
refers to the strength of the orientation of the opinion.
Anytextual expression subject to annotation would go within <expression></expression>.
A non-applicable parameter for a particular type of ex-pression would receive a ?Null?
value.
The annotation of text fragments hasbeen guided by the presence of evaluative expressions and other criteria asexplained in section III.For annotation purposes, we have collected the editorials from two onlinenewspapers (http://ekantipur.com,http://kantipuronline.com/ktmpost.php)of different dates of the year 2007, amounting to a total of 16 text filesand approximately 320 sentences with an average of 20 sentences per edi-torial.
Two annotators having a fairly good understanding of the English262language have been involved in the annotation work.
The annotators havebeen assigned the same texts to see how semantic annotations can differamong annotators.
Results have shown that the difficulties in the manualannotation exist at two levels, the first one in determining an expression asbeing a fact or an opinion and the other one in grading the opinion as oneof the types, i.e., assumptive or value etc.
Wherever the annotators haveconfusions about providing one particular value, they have been advised toprovide multiple values separated by commas.
A sample of the annotatedtext in XML format is given in Fig.
1. above.5 ConclusionThe work that we have described is currently in the phase of manuallyannotating samples of editorials being based on the semantic tag set andmethodology discussed in the document.
Further, we plan to develop acomputational model which would suggest methods to automate the pro-cess of analyzing and synthesizing opinions from editorials.
The manuallyannotated texts and collected editorials would serve as training data andtest data respectively for validating the proposed computational model.Acknowledgements: This work was partly supported by the French Stic-Asia programme.References[1] Hearst M. A., Direction-based text interpretation as an information access re-finement, Text-based intelligent systems: current research and practice in infor-mation extraction and retrieval, 1992, Erlbaum.
[2] Hatzivassiloglou V. and Wiebe J. M., Effects of adjective orientation and grad-ability on sentence subjectivity, Proc.
18th Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, 2000, Saarbru?cken.
[3] Wilson T. et al, Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-level sentiment anal-ysis, Proc.
HLT/ EMNLP 2005, Vancouver.
[4] Esuli A. and Sebastiani F. , Determining term subjectivity and term orientationfor opinion mining, Proc.
EACL-06, Trento.
[5] Read J.et al, Annotating Expressions of Appraisal in English, Proc.
ACL 2007Linguistic Annotation Workshop, Prague.
[6] Dunworth K., UniEnglish reading: distinguishing facts from opinions, WorldWide Web, 2008, http://unienglish.curtin.edu.au/local/docs/RW facts opinions.pdf263
