Proceedings of the 2009 Named Entities Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 143?151,Suntec, Singapore, 7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPChinese-English Organization Name Translation Based on Correla-tive ExpansionFeiliang Ren, Muhua Zhu,  Huizhen Wang,   Jingbo ZhuNatural Language Processing Lab, Northeastern University, Shenyang, China{renfeiliang,zhumuhua}@gmail.com{wanghuizhen,zhujingbo}@mail.neu.edu.cnAbstractThis paper presents an approach to trans-lating Chinese organization names intoEnglish based on correlative expansion.Firstly, some candidate translations aregenerated by using statistical translationmethod.
And several correlative namedentities for the input are retrieved from acorrelative named entity list.
Secondly,three kinds of expansion methods areused to generate some expanded queries.Finally, these queries are submitted to asearch engine, and the refined translationresults are mined and re-ranked by usingthe returned web pages.
Experimental re-sults show that this approach outperformsthe compared system in overall transla-tion accuracy.1 IntroductionThere are three main types of named entity: loca-tion name, person name, and organization name.Organization name translation is a subtask ofnamed entity translation.
It is crucial for manyNLP tasks, such as cross-language informationretrieval, machine translation, question and an-swering system.
For organization name transla-tion, there are two problems among it which arevery difficult to handle.Problem I: There is no uniform rule that canbe abided by to select proper translation methodsfor the inside words of an organization name.
Forexample, a Chinese word ???
?, when it is usedas a modifier for a university, it is translated toNortheastern for ????
?/Northeastern Uni-versity?, and is translated to Northeast for ??????
?/Northeast Forestry University?, and ismapped to Chinese Pinyin Dongbei for ??????
?/Dongbei University of Finance and Eco-nomics?.
It is difficult to decide which transla-tion method should be chosen when we translatethe inside words of an organization name.Problem II: There is no uniform rule that canbe abided by to select proper translation orderand proper treatment of particles Here particlesrefer to prepositions and articles) for an inputorganization name.
For example, the organiza-tion name ??????
?/China ConstructionBank?
and the organization name ??????
?/Agricultural Bank of China?, they are verysimilar both in surface forms and in syntax struc-tures, but their translation orders are different,and their treatments of particles are also different.Generally, there are two strategies usuallyused for named entity translation in previous re-search.
One is alignment based approach, and theother is generation based approach.
Alignmentbased approach (Chen et al 2003; Huang et al2003; Hassan and Sorensen, 2005; and so on)extracts named entities translation pairs fromparallel or comparable corpus by some alignmenttechnologies, and this approach is not suitable tosolve the above two problems.
Because new or-ganization names are constantly being created,and alignment based method usually fails tocover these new organization names that don?toccur in the bilingual corpus.Traditional generation based approach (Al-Onaizan and Knight, 2002; Jiang et al.2007;Yang et al 2008; and so on) usually consists oftwo parts.
Firstly, it will generate some candidatetranslations for the input; then it will re-rankthese candidate translations to assign the correcttranslations high ranks.
Cheng and Zong [2008]proposed another generation based approach fororganization name translation, which directlytranslates organization names according to theirinherent structures.
But their approach still can?tsolve the above two problems.
This is becausethe amount of organization names is so huge andmany of them have their own special translationrules to handle the above two problems.
And theinherent structures don?t reveal these translationrules.
Traditional generation based approach issuitable for organization name translation.
But inprevious research, the final translation perform-ance depends on the candidate translation gen-143eration process greatly.
If this generation processfailed, it is impossible to obtain correct resultfrom the re-ranking process.
In response to this,Huang et al [2005] proposed a novel method thatmined key phrase translation form web by usingtopic-relevant hint words.
But in their approach,they removed the candidate translation genera-tion process, which will improve extra difficultduring mining phrase.
Besides, in their approach,the features considered to obtain topic-relevantwords are not so comprehensive, which will af-fect the quality of returned web pages where thecorrect translations are expected to be included.There is still much room for the improvementprocess of the topic-relevant words extraction.Inspired by the traditional generation basednamed entity translation strategy and the ap-proach proposed by Huang et al, we propose anorganization name translation approach that min-ing the correct translations of input organizationname from the web.
Our aim is to solve theabove two problems indirectly by retrieving theweb pages that contain the correct translation ofthe input and mining the correct translation fromthem.
Given an input organization name, firstly,some candidate translations are generated by us-ing statistical translation method.
And severalcorrelative named entities for the input are re-trieved from a correlative named entity list.
Sec-ondly, expanded queries are generated by usingthree kinds of query expansion methods.
Thirdly,these queries are submitted to a search engine,and the final translation results are mined and re-ranked by using the returned web pages.The rest of this paper is organized as follows,section 2 presents the extraction process of cor-relative named entities, section 3 presents a detaildescription of our translation method for Chineseorganization name, and section 4 introduces ourparameter evaluation method, and section 5 is theexperiments and discussions part, finally conclu-sions and future work are given in section 6.2 Extraction of Correlative Named En-titiesThe key of our approach is to find some webpages that contain the correct translation of theinput.
With the help of correlative named entities(here if two named entities are correlative, itmeans that they are usually used to describe thesame topic), it is easier to find such web pages.This is because that in the web, one web pageusually has one topic.
Thus if two named entitiesare correlative, they are very likely to occur inpair in some web pages.The correlative named entity list is constructedin advance.
During translation, the correlativenamed entities for the input organization nameare retrieved from this list directly.
To set up thiscorrelative named entity list, an about 180GB-sized collection of web pages are used.
Totallythere are about 100M web pages in this collec-tion.
Named entities are recognized from everyweb page by using a NER tool.
This NER tool istrained by CRF model 1  with the corpus fromSIGHAN-20082.2.1 Features UsedDuring the extraction of correlative named enti-ties, the following features are considered.Co-occurrence in a Document The more of-ten two named entities co-occur in a document,the more likely they are correlative.
This featureis denoted as 1 2( , )iCoD n n , which means the co-occurrence of named entities 1n and 2n  in a docu-ment iD .
This feature is also the main featureused in Huang et al [2005].Co-occurrence in Documents The more oftentwo named entities co-occur in different docu-ments, the more likely they are correlative.
Thisfeature is denoted as 1 2( , )CoDs n n , which meansthe number of documents that both 1n  and 2n oc-cur in.Distance The closer two named entities is in adocument, the more likely they are correlative.This feature is denoted as 1 2( , )iDistD n n , whichmeans the number of words between 1n and 2nin a document iD .Mutual Information Mutual information is ametric to measure the correlation degree of twowords.
The higher two named entities?
mutualinformation, the more likely they are correlative.And the mutual information of named entities1n and 2n  in a document iD is computed as fol-lowing formula.1 21 2 1 21 2( , )( , ) ( , ) log( ) ( )ip n nMID n n p n np n p n= ?
(1)Jaccard Similarity Jaccard similarity is also ametric to measure the correlative degree of twowords.
The higher two named entities?
Jaccard1 http://www.chasen.org/~taku/software/CRF++/2 http://www.china-language.gov.cn/bakeoff08/144similarity, the more likely they are correlative.And Jaccard similarity is computed as followingformula.1 21 21 2 1 2( , )( , )( ) ( ) ( , )CoDs n nJaccard n nD n D n CoDs n n= + ?
(2)where ( )iD n  is the number of documents thatin occurs in, and  ( , )i jCoDs n n  is the number ofdocuments that both in  and jn occur in.TF-IDF TF-IDF is a weight computationmethod usually used in information retrieval.Here for a named entity in , TF-IDF is used tomeasure the importance of its correlative namedentities.
The TF-IDF value of jn in a documentiD is computed as following formula.
( ) log( )i j ij jNTF IDF n tfD n?
= ?
(3)where ijtf is the frequency of jn in docu-ment iD , N is the number of total documents,and ( )jD n is the number of documents thatjn occurs in.2.2 Feature CombinationDuring the process of feature combination, everyfeature is normalized, and the final correlativedegree of two named entities is the linear combi-nation of these normalized features, and it iscomputed as following formula.1 2( , ) ( , )( , )( , ) ( , )k i ji jki jk i j i jj k jCoD n n CoDs n nC n nCoD n n CoDs n n?
?= +???
?3 41 ( , )( , )1 ( , )( , )k i jk i jk kk i jk i j j kj kMID n nDistD n nMID n nDistD n n?
?+ +?
????
?5 6( )( , )( , ) ( )k ji j ki j k jj k jTF IDF nJaccard n nJaccard n n TF IDF n?
?
?+ + ???
??
(4)Finally, for every organization name in , itstop-K correlative named entities are selected toconstruct the correlative named entity list.During translation, the correlative words forthe input can be retrieved from this correlativelist directly.
If the input is not included in this list,the same method as in Huang et al [2005] isused to obtain the needed correlative words.3 Organization Name TranslationBased on Correlative Expansion3.1 Statistical Translation ModuleThe first step of our approach is to generate somecandidate translations for every input organiza-tion name.
As shown in table 1, these candidatetranslations are used as query stems during queryexpansion.
We use Moses3, a state of the art pub-lic machine translation tool, to generate suchcandidate translations.
Here Moses is trainedwith the bilingual corpus that is from the 4thChina Workshop on Machine Translation4.
Totalthere are 868,947 bilingual Chinese-English sen-tence pairs on news domain in this bilingual cor-pus.
Moses receives an organization name as in-put, and outputs the N-best results as the candi-date translations of the input organization name.Total there are six features used in Moses: phrasetranslation probability, inverse phrase translationprobability, lexical translation probability, in-verse lexical translation probability, languagemodel, and sentence length penalty.
All theneeded parameters are trained with MERTmethod (Och, 2003) by using a held-out devel-opment set.3.2 Query ExpansionsBecause the amount of available web pages is sohuge, the query submitted to search engine mustbe well designed.
Otherwise, the search enginewill return large amount of un-related web pages.This will enlarge the difficulty of mining phase.Here three kinds of expansion methods are pro-posed to generate some queries by combining theclues given by statistical translation method andthe clues given by correlative named entities ofthe input.
And these correlative named entitiesare retrieved from the correlative named entitieslist before the query expansions process.
Thesethree kinds of expansions are explained as fol-lows.3.2.1 Monolingual ExpansionGiven an input organization name in , supposeis is one of its candidate translations, and jn isone of its correlative named entities.
If jn can bereliably translated5, we expand is with this reli-3 http://www.statmt.org/moses/4 http://www.nlpr.ia.ac.cn/cwmt-20085 A word can be reliably translated means either it hasa unique dictionary translation or it is a Chinese145able translation ( )jt n  to form a query?
is + ( )jt n ?.
This kind of expansion is called asmonolingual expansion.For two named entities, if they are correlative,their translations are likely correlative too.
Sotheir translations are also likely to occur in pairin some web pages.
Suppose a query generatedby this expansion is ?
is + ( )jt n ?, if the candidatetranslation is is the correct translation of the in-put, there must be some returned web pages thatcontain is completely.
Otherwise, it is still possi-ble to obtain some returned web pages that con-tain the correct translation.
This is because thatthe search engine will return both the web pagesthat include the query completely and the webpages that include the query partly.
And for atranslation candidate is and the correct transla-tion 'is , they are very likely to have some com-mon words, so some of their returned web pagesmay overlap each other.
Thus it can be expectedthat when we submit ?
is + ( )jt n ?
to search en-gine, it will return some web pages that include?
'is + ( )jt n ?
or include 'is .
This is very helpfulfor the mining phase.3.2.2 Bilingual ExpansionGiven an input organization name in , supposeis is one of its candidate translations, we ex-pand is with in  to form a query ?
is + in ?.
Thiskind of expansion is called as bilingual expan-sion.Bilingual expansion is very useful to verifywhether a candidate translation is the correcttranslation.
To give readers more information orthey are not sure about the translation of originalnamed entity, the Chinese authors usually in-clude both the original form of a named entityand its translation in the mix-language web pages[Fei Huang et al 2005].
So the correct translationpair is likely to obtain more supports from thereturned web pages than those incorrect transla-tion pairs.
Thus bilingual expansion is very use-ful for the re-ranking phase.Besides, for an input organization name, if oneof its incorrect candidate translations is  is veryperson name and can be translated by Pinyin map-ping.similar to the correct translation 'is  in surfaceform, the correct translation is also likely to becontained in the returned web pages by using thiskind of queries.
The reason for this is the searchmechanism of search engine, which has beenexplained above in monolingual expansion.3.2.3 Mix-language ExpansionGiven an input organization name in , supposeis is one of its candidate translations, and jn isone of its correlative named entities.
We ex-pand is with jn  to form a query ?
is + jn ?.
Thiskind of expansion is called as mix-language ex-pansion.Mix-language expansion is a necessary com-plement to the other two expansions.
Besides,this mix-language expansion is more prone toobtain some mix-language web pages that maycontain both the original input organization nameand its correct translation.3.3 MiningWhen the expanded queries are submitted tosearch engine, the correct translation of the inputorganization name may be contained in the re-turned web pages.
Because the translation of anorganization name must be also an organizationname, we mine the correct translation of the in-put among the English organization names.
Herewe use the Stanford named entity recognitiontoolkits6  to recognize all the English organiza-tion names in the returned web pages.
Then alignthese recognized organization names to the inputby considering the following features.Mutual Translation Probability The transla-tion probability measures the semantic equiva-lence between a source organization name and itstarget candidate translation.
And mutual transla-tion probability measures this semantic equiva-lence in two directions.
For simplicity, here weuse IBM model-1(Brown et al 1993), whichcomputes two organization names?
translationprobability using the following formula.111( | ) ( | )J Lj lJljp f e p f eL === ??
(6)where ( | )j lp f e is the lexical translation prob-ability.
Suppose the input organization nameis in , is is one of the recognized English organi-6  http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtml146zation names, the mutual translation probabilityof in and is  is computed as:( , ) ( | ) (1 ) ( | )i i i i i imp n s p n s p s n?
?= + ?
(7)Golden Translation Ratio For two organiza-tion names, their golden translation ratio is de-fined as the percentage of words in one organiza-tion name whose reliable transactions can befound in another organization name.
This featureis used to measure the probability of one namedentity is the translation of the other.
It is com-puted as following formula.
( , ) ( , )( , ) (1 )| | | |i j j ii ji jG n s G s nGR n sn s?
?= + ?
(8)where ( , )i jG n s is the number of golden trans-lated words from in to js , and ( , )j iG s n  is thenumber of golden translated words from js to in .Co-occurrence In Web Pages For an inputorganization name in and a recognized candidatetranslation js , the more often they co-occur indifferent web pages, the more likely they aretranslations of each other.
This feature is denotedas ( , )i jCoS n s , which means the number of webpages that both 1n  and js occur in.Input Matching Ratio This feature is definedas the percentage of the words in the input thatcan be found in a returned web page.
For thosemix-language web pages, this feature is used tomeasure the probability of the correct translationoccurring in a returned web page.
It is computedas the following formula.| |( , )| |i ki kin sIMR n sn?=                             (9)where ks is the k th?
returned web page.Correlative Named Entities Matching RatioThis feature is defined as the percentage of thewords in a correlative named entity that can befound in a returned web page.
This feature is alsoused to measure the probability of the correcttranslation occurring in a returned web page.
It iscomputed as the following formula.| |_ ( , )| |i ki kic sCW MR c sc?=                   (10)The final confidence score of in and jt to be atranslation pair is measured by following formula.As in formula 4, here every factor will be is nor-malized during computation.1 2( , ) ( , ) ( , )i j i j i jC n t mp n t GR n t?
?= +43( , )( , )( , )i ji kki jjCoSs n nIMR n sCoS n n K?
?+ + ?
?5 _ ( , )i ki kCW MR c sK I?+ ?
??
(11)where K is the number of returned web pages,I is the number of correlative named entities forthe input organization name.For every input organization name, we remaina fixed number of mined candidate translationswith the highest confidence scores.
And addthem to the original candidate translation set toform a revised candidate translation set.3.4 Re-rankingThe aim of mining is to improve recall.
And inthe re-ranking phase, we hope to improve preci-sion by assigning the correct translation a higherrank.
The features considered here for the re-ranking phase are listed as follows.Confidence Score The confidence score ofin and jt  is not only useful for the mining phase,but also is useful for the re-ranking phase.
Thehigher this score, the higher rank this candidatetranslation should be assigned.Inclusion Ratio For Bilingual Query Thisfeature is defined as the percentage of the re-turned web pages that the bilingual query iscompletely matched.
It is computed as the fol-lowing formula.
( )_ ( )( )iiih qEHR BQ qH q=                           (12)where ( )ih q is the number of web pages thatmatch the query iq completely, and ( )iH q is thetotal number of returned web pages for query iq .Candidate Inclusion Ratio for MonolingualQuery and Mix-language Query This feature isdefined as the percentage of the returned webpages that the candidate translation is completedmatched.
This feature for monolingual query iscomputed as formula 13, and this feature formix-language query is computed as formula 14.
( )_ ( ) ( )iiih sECHR MlQ s H q=                (13)( )_ ( ) ( )iiih sECHR MixQ s H q=              (14)where ( )ih s  is the number of web pages thatmatch the candidate translation is completely, and147( )iH q is the total number of returned web pagesfor query iq .Finally, the above features are combined withfollowing formula.21( , ) ( , ) _ ( )i j i j iiR n t C n t EHR BQ qN?
?= + ?3 _ ( )iiECHR MlQ sM?+ ?4 _ ( )iiECHR MixQ sL?+ ?
(15)where N is the number of candidate transla-tions, M and L  are the number of monolingualqueries and mix-language queries respectively.At last the revised candidate translation set isre-ranked according to this formula, and the top-K results are outputted as the input?s translationresults.4 Parameters EvaluationsIn above formula (4), formula (11) and formula(15), the parameters i?
are interpolation featureweights, which reflect the importance of differentfeatures.
We use some held-our organizationname pairs as development set to train these pa-rameters.
For those parameters in formula (4), weused those considered features solely one by one,and evaluated their importance according to theircorresponding inclusion ratio of correct transla-tions when using mix-language expansion andthe final weights are assigned according to thefollowing formula.iiiiInclusionRateInclusionRate?
= ?
(16)Where iInclusionRate  is the inclusion ratewhen considered feature if  only.
The inclusionrate is defined as the percentage of correct trans-lations that are contained in the returned webpages as Huang et al[2005] did.To obtain the parameters in formula (11), weused those considered features solely one by one,and computed their corresponding precision ondevelopment set respectively, and final weightsare assigned according to following formula.iiiiPP?
= ?
(17)Where iP  is the precision when consideredfeature if  only.
And for the parameters in for-mula (15), their assignment method is the samewith the method used for formula (11).5 Experiments and DiscussionsWe use a Chinese to English organization nametranslation task to evaluate our approach.
Theexperiments consist of four parts.
Firstly, weevaluate the contribution of the correlativenamed entities for obtaining the web pages thatcontain the correct translation of the input.
Sec-ondly, we evaluate the contribution of differentquery expansion methods.
Thirdly, we investi-gate to which extents our approach can solve thetwo problems mentioned in section 1.
Finally, weevaluate how much our approach can improvethe overall recall and precision.
Note that forsimplicity, we use 10-best outputs from Moses asthe original candidate translations for every input.And the search engine used here is Live7.5.1 Test SetThe test set consists of 247 Chinese organizationnames recognized from 2,000 web pages that aredownloaded from Sina8.
These test organizationnames are translated by a bilingual speaker giventhe text they appear in.
And these translations areverified from their official government webpages respectively.
During translation, we don?tuse any contextual information.5.2 Contribution of Correlative Named En-titiesThe contribution of correlative named entities isevaluated by inclusion rate, and we compare theinclusion rate with different amount of correla-tive named entities and different amount of re-turned web pages.
The experimental results areshown in Table 1 (here we use all these threekinds of expanding strategies).# of correlative named enti-ties used1 5 101 0.17 0.39 0.475 0.29 0.63 0.78#of webpages used10    0.32 0.76 0.82Table 1.
Comparisons of inclusion rateFrom these results we can find that our ap-proach obtains an inclusion rate of 82% when weuse 10 correlative named entities and 10 returnedweb pages.
We notice that there are some Chi-nese organization names whose correct Englishtranslations have multiple standards.
For exam-ple,  the organization name ????
?is translated7  http://www.live.com/8  http://news.sina.com.cn/148into ?Department of Defense?
when it refers to adepartment in US, but  is translated into ?Minis-try of Defence?
when it refers to a department inUK or in Singapore.
This problem affects theactual inclusion rate of our approach.
Anotherfactor that affects the inclusion rate is the searchengine used.
There is a small difference in theinclusion rate when different search engines areused.
For example, the Chinese organizationname ????
?/China CITIC Bank?, becausethe word ????
is an out-of-vocabulary word,the best output from Moses is ?of the bank?.With such candidate translation, none of ourthree expansion methods works.
But when weused Google as search engine instead, we minedthe correct translation.From these results we can conclude that by us-ing correlative named entities, the returned webpages are more likely to contain the correct trans-lations of the input organization names.5.3 Contribution of Three Query ExpansionMethodsIn this section, we evaluate the contribution ofthese three query expansion methods respectively.To do this, we use them one by one during trans-lation, and compare their inclusion rates respec-tively.
Experimental results are shown in Table 2.#of web pagesused1 5 101 0.002 0.0020.0045 0.017 0.0190.019MonolingualExpansionOnly 10 0.021 0.0370.0511 0.112 0.1590.1745 0.267 0.3270.472BilingualExpansionOnly 10 0.285 0.4140.6691 0.098 0.1380.1615 0.231 0.3070.386# ofcorrelativenamed enti-ties usedMix-languageExpansionOnly 10 0.249 0.3980.652Table 2.
Inclusion rate of different kinds of queryexpansion methodsFrom Table 2 we can see that bilingual expan-sion and mix-language expansion play greaterroles than monolingual expansion in obtainingthe web pages that contain the correct transla-tions of the inputs.
This is because the conditionof generating monolingual queries is too strict,which requires a reliable translation for the cor-relative named entity.
In most cases, this condi-tion cannot be satisfied.
So for many input or-ganization names, we cannot generate any mono-lingual queries for them at all.
This is the reasonwhy monolingual expansion obtains so poorer aninclusion rate compared with the other two ex-pansions.
To evaluate the true contribution ofmonolingual expansion method, we carry outanother experiment.
We select 10 organizationnames randomly from the test set, and translateall of their correlative named entities into Englishby a bilingual speaker.
Then we evaluate the in-clusion rate again on this new test set.
The ex-perimental results are shown in Table 3.# of correlative named enti-ties used1 5 101 0.2 0.3 0.65 0.4 0.7 0.9#of webpages used10    0.4 0.8 0.9Table 3.
Inclusion rate for monolingual expan-sion on new test setFrom Table 3 we can conclude that, if most ofthe correlative named entities can be reliablytranslated, the queries generated by this mono-lingual expansion will play greater role in obtain-ing the web pages that contain the correct trans-lations of the inputs.From those results in Table 2 we can concludethat, these three kinds of expansions complementeach other.
Using them together can obtainhigher inclusion rate than using anyone of themonly.5.4 Efficiency on Solving Problem I andProblem IIIn this section, we investigate to which extentsour approach can solve the two problems men-tioned in section 1.We compare the wrong trans-lation numbers caused by these two problems(another main kind of translation error is causedby the translation of out-of-vocabulary words)between Moses and our approach.
The experi-mental results are shown in Table 4.Moses Results Our methodProblem I 44 3Problem II 30 0Table 4.
Comparison of error numbersFrom Table 4 we can see that our approach isvery effective on solving these two problems.Almost all of the errors caused by these twoproblems are corrected by our approach.
Onlythree wrong translations are not corrected.
This isbecause that there are some Chinese organizationnames whose correct English translations havemultiple standards, such as the correct translationof organization name ????
?depends on itsnationality, which has been explained in section5.2.1495.5 Our Approach vs. Other ApproachesIn this section, we compare our approach withother two methods: Moses and the approach pro-posed by Huang et al [2005].
We compare theiraccuracy of Top-K results.
For both our approachand Huang et al?s approach, we use 10 correla-tive words for each input organization name anduse 10 returned web pages for mining the correcttranslation result.
The experimental results areshown in Table 5.MosesResultsHuang?sResultsOurResultsTop 1 0.09 0.44 0.53Top 5 0.18 0.61 0.73Top 10 0.31 0.68 0.79Table 5.
Moses results vs. our resultsMoses is a state-of-the-art translation method,but it can hardly handle the organization nametranslation well.
In addition to the errors causedby the above two problems mentioned in section1, the out-of-vocabulary problem is another ob-stacle for Moses.
For example, when translatingthe organization name ????????
?/International Tsunami Information Centre?, be-cause the word ????
is an out-of-vocabularyword, Moses fails to give correct translation.
Butfor those approaches that have a web miningprocess during translation, both the out-of-vocabulary problem and the two problems men-tioned in section 1 are less serious.
This is thereason that Moses obtains the lowest perform-ance compared with the other two approaches.Our approach is also superior to Huang?s method,as shown in the above table.
We think this is be-cause of the following three reasons.
The firstreason is that in our approach, we use a transla-tion candidate generation process.
Althoughthese candidates are usually not so good, theycan still provide some very useful clue informa-tion for the web retrieval process.
The secondreason is that the features considered for correla-tive words extraction in our approach are morecomprehensive.
Most of the time (except for thecase that the input is not included in the correla-tive word list) our approach is more prone to ob-tain better correlative words for the input.
Thethird reason is that our approach use more queryexpansion strategies than Huang?s approach.These expansion strategies may complementeach other and improve the probability of obtain-ing the web pages that contain the correct trans-lations For example, both Moses and Huang?sapproach failed to translate the organizationname ??????????.
But in our approach,with the candidate translation ?International In-formation Centre?
that is generated by Moses,our approach still can obtain the web page thatcontains the correct translation when using bilin-gual expansion.
Thus the correct translation ?In-ternational Tsunami Information Centre?
ismined out during the sequent mining process.From table 5 we also notice that the final re-call of our approach is a little lower than the in-clusion rate as show in table 1.
This means thatour approach doesn?t mine all the correct transla-tions that are contained in the returned web pages.One of the reasons is that some of the input or-ganization names are not clearly expressed.
Forexample, an input organization name ??????
?, although its correct translation ?Universityof California, Berkeley?
is contained in the re-turned web pages, this correct translation cannotbe mined out by our approach.
But if it is ex-pressed as ?????????????
?, itscorrect translation can be mined from the re-turned web pages easily.
Besides, the recognitionerrors of NER toolkits will also reduce the finalrecall of our approach.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we present a new organizationname translation approach.
It uses some correla-tive named entities of the input and some queryexpansion strategies to help the search engine toretrieve those web pages that contain the correcttranslation of the input.
Experimental resultsshow that for most of the inputs, their correcttranslations are contained in the returned webpages.
By mining these correct translations andre-ranking them, the two problems mentioned insection 1 are solved effectively.
And recall andprecision are also improved correspondingly.In the future, we will try to improve the ex-traction perform of correlative named entities.We will also try to apply this approach to theperson name translation and location name trans-lation.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the open fund ofNational Laboratory of Pattern Recognition, In-stitute of Automation Chinese Academy of Sci-ence, P.R.C, and was also supported in part byNational Science Foundation of China(60873091), Natural Science Foundation ofLiaoning Province (20072032) and ShenyangScience and Technology Plan (1081235-1-00).150ReferencesChen Hsin-Hsi, Changhua Yang, and Ying Lin.
2003.Learning formulation and transformation rules formultilingual named entities.
Proceedings of theACL 2003 Workshop on Multilingual and Mixed-language Named Entity Recognition.
pp1-8.Dekang Lin, Shaojun Zhao, Durme Benjamin VanDrume, Marius Pasca.
Mining Parenthetical Trans-lations from the Web by Word Alignment,  ACL08.pp994-1002.Fan Yang, Jun Zhao, Bo Zou, Kang Liu, Feifan Liu.2008.
Chinese-English Backward TransliterationAssisted with Mining Monolingual Web Pages.ACL2008.
pp541-549.Fei Huang, Stephan Vogel and Alex Waibel.
2003.Automatic Extraction of Named Entity Translin-gual Equivalence Based on Multi-feature CostMinimization.
Proceedings of the 2003 AnnualConference of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Workshop on Multilingual and Mixed-language Named Entity Recognition.Fei Huang, Stephan vogel and Alex Waibel.
2004.Improving Named Entity Translation CombiningPhonetic and Semantic Similarities.
Proceedings ofthe HLT/NAACL.
pp281-288.Fei Huang, Ying Zhang, Stephan Vogel.
2005.
Min-ing Key Phrase Translations from Web Corpora.HLT-EMNLP2005, pp483-490.Feng, Donghui, Yajuan LV, and Ming Zhou.
2004.
Anew approach for English-Chinese named entityalignment.
Proceedings of the Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP 2004), pp372-379.Franz Josef Och.
2003.
Minimum Error Rate Trainingin Statistical Machine Translation.
ACL2003.pp160-167.Jin-Shea Kuo, Haizhou Li, Ying-Kuei Yang.
LearningTransliteration Lexicon from the Web.
COL-ING/ACL2006.
pp1129-1136.Hany Hassan and Jeffrey Sorensen.
2005.
An Inte-grated Approach for Arabic-English Named EntityTranslation.
Proceedings of ACL Workshop onComputational Approaches to Semitic Languages.pp87-93.Lee, Chun-Jen and Jason S.Chang and Jyh-ShingRoger Jang.
2004a.
Bilingual named-entity pairsextraction from parallel corpora.
Proceedings ofIJCNLP-04 Workshop on Named Entity Recogni-tion for Natural Language Processing Application.pp9-16.Lee, Chun-Jen, Jason S.Chang and Thomas C.Chuang.
2004b.
Alignment of bilingual named en-tities in parallel corpora using statistical model.Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence.
3265:144-153.Lee, Chun-Jen, Jason S.Chang, and Jyh-Shing RogerJang.
2005.
Extraction of transliteration pairs fromparallel corpora using a sta Acquisition of English-Chinese transliterated word pairs from parallel-aligned text using a statistical transliteration model.Information Sciences.Long Jiang, Ming Zhou, Lee-Feng Chien, Cheng Niu.[2007].
Named Entity Translation with Web Min-ing and Transliteration.
IJCAI-2007.Moore, Robert C. 2003.
Learning translations ofnamed-entity phrases form parallel corpora.
ACL-2003.
pp259-266.Peter F. Brown, Vincent J. Della Pietra, Stephen A.Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer.
1993.
TheMathematics of Statistical Machine Translation:Parameter Estimation.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):263-311.Y.
Al-Onaizan and K. Knight.
2002.
Translatingnamed entities using monolingual and bilingual re-sources.
In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics,pp400-408.Ying Zhang and Phil Vines Using the Web for Auto-mated Translation Extraction in Cross-LanguageInformation Retrieval.
SIGIR2004,pp162-169.Yufeng Chen, Chengqing Zong.
A Structure-basedModel for Chinese Organization Name Translation.ACM Transactions on Asian Language InformationProcessing, 2008, 7(1), pp1-30.151
