Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 63?69,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPFinite-State Description of Vietnamese ReduplicationLe Hong PhuongLORIA, Francelehong@loria.frNguyen Thi Minh HuyenHanoi Univ.
of Science, Vietnamhuyenntm@vnu.edu.vnAzim RoussanalyLORIA, Franceazim@loria.frAbstractWe present for the first time a compu-tational model for the reduplication ofthe Vietnamese language.
Reduplicationis a popular phenomenon of Vietnamesein which reduplicative words are createdby the combination of multiple syllableswhose phonics are similar.
We first givea systematical study of Vietnamese redu-plicative words, bringing into focus clearprinciples for the formation of a large classof bi-syllabic reduplicative words.
We thenmake use of optimal finite-state devices,in particular minimal sequential string-tostring transducers to build a computationalmodel for very efficient recognition andproduction of those words.
Finally, sev-eral nice applications of this computa-tional model are discussed.1 IntroductionFinite-state technology has been applied success-fully for describing the morphological processesof many natural languages since the pioneer-ing works of (Kaplan and Kay, 1994; Kosken-niemi, 1983).
It is shown that while finite-stateapproaches to most natural languages have gen-erally been very successful, they are less suitablefor non-concatenative phenomena found in somelanguages, for example the non-concatenativeword formation processes in Semitic languages(Cohen-Sygal and Wintner, 2006).
A popular non-concatenative process is reduplication ?
the pro-cess in which a morpheme or part of it is dupli-cated.Reduplication is a common linguistic phe-nomenon in many Asian languages, for exam-ple Japanese, Mandarin Chinese, Cantonese, Thai,Malay, Indonesian, Chamorro, Hebrew, Bangla,and especially Vietnamese.We are concerned with the reduplication ofVietnamese.
It is noted that Vietnamese is a mono-syllabic language and its word forms never change,contrary to occidental languages that make use ofmorphological variations.
Consequently, redupli-cation is one popular and important word forma-tion method which is extensively used to enrich thelexicon.
This follows that the Vietnamese lexiconconsists of a large number of reduplicative words.This paper presents for the first time a compu-tational model for recognition and production of alarge class of Vietnamese reduplicative words.
Weshow that Vietnamese reduplication can be sim-ulated efficiently by finite-state devices.
We firstintroduce the Vietnamese lexicon and the struc-ture of Vietnamese syllables.
We next give a com-plete study about the reduplication phenomenonof Vietnamese language, bringing into focus for-mation principles of reduplicative words.
We thenpropose optimal finite-state sequential transducersrecognizing and producing a substantial class ofthese words.
Finally, we present several nice ap-plications of this computational model before con-cluding and discussing the future work.2 Vietnamese LexiconIn this section, we first present some general char-acteristics of the Vietnamese language.
We thengive some statistics of the Vietnamese lexicon andintroduce the structure of Vietnamese syllables.The following basic characteristics of Viet-namese are adopted from (?o?n, 2003; ?o?n etal.
, 2003; H?u et al , 1998; Nguy?n et al , 2006).2.1 Language TypeVietnamese is classified in the Viet-Muong groupof the Mon-Khmer branch, that belongs to theAustro-Asiatic language family.
Vietnamese isalso known to have a similarity with languagesin the Tai family.
The Vietnamese vocabulary fea-tures a large amount of Sino-Vietnamese words.63Moreover, by being in contact with the French lan-guage, Vietnamese was enriched not only in vo-cabulary but also in syntax by the calque of Frenchgrammar.Vietnamese is an isolating language, which ischaracterized by the following properties:?
it is a monosyllabic language;?
its word forms never change, contrary to oc-cidental languages that make use of morpho-logical variations (plural form, conjugation,etc.);?
hence, all grammatical relations are mani-fested by word order and function words.2.2 VocabularyVietnamese has a special unit called ?ti?ng?
thatcorresponds at the same time to a syllable with re-spect to phonology, a morpheme with respect tomorpho-syntax, and a word with respect to sen-tence constituent creation.
For convenience, wecall these ?ti?ng?
syllables.
The Vietnamese vo-cabulary contains?
simple words, which are monosyllabic;?
reduplicative words composed by phoneticreduplication;?
compound words composed by semantic co-ordination and by semantic subodination;?
complex words phonetically transcribed fromforeign languages.The Vietnamese lexicon edited recently by theVietnam Lexicography Center (Vietlex1) contains40, 181 words and idioms, which are widely usedin contemporary spoken language, newspapersand literature.
These words are made up of 7, 729syllables.
Table 1 shows some interesting statisticsof the word length measured in syllables.
6, 303syllables (about 81.55% of syllables) are words bythemselves.
Two-syllable words are the most fre-quent, consisting of nearly 71% of the vocabulary.2.3 SyllablesIn this paragraph, we introduce phonetic attributesof Vietnamese syllables.
In addition of the mono-syllabic characteristic, Vietnamese is a tonal lan-guage in that each syllable has a certain pitch char-acteristic.
The meaning of a syllable varies with its1http://www.vietlex.com/Length # %1 6, 303 15.692 28, 416 70.723 2, 259 5.624 2, 784 6.93?
5 419 1.04Total 40, 181 100Table 1: Length of words measured in syllablesNo.
Tones Notation1.
low falling ?2.
creaky rising ?3.
creaky falling ?4.
mid level a5.
dipping ?6.
high rising ?Table 2: Vietnamese tonestone.
This phonetic mechanism can also be foundin other languages such that Chinese or Thai.There are six tones in Vietnamese as specifiedin Table 2.
The letter a denotes any non-accent syl-lable.
These six tones can be roughly classifiedinto two groups corresponding to low and highpitches in pronunciation.
The first half of the ta-ble contains three low tones and the second halfcontains three high tones.
In addition, the differ-ence in the tone of two syllables are distinguishedby flat property of tones.
The 1st and 4th tones inTable 2 are flat (b?ng), the other tones are non-flat(tr?c).The structure of a Vietnamese syllable is givenin Table 3.
Each syllable can be divided into threeparts: onset, rhyme and tone.
The onset is usuallya consonant, however it may be empty.
The rhymecontains a vowel (nucleus) with or without glide/w/, and an optional consonant (coda).
It is no-ticed that the initial consonant of a syllable doesnot carry information of the tone, the Vietnamesetone has an effect only on the rhyme part of thesyllable (Tran et al, 2006).
This result reinforcesthe fact that a tone is always marked by the nucleuscomposant of the rhyme which is a vowel.
Readerswho are interested in detail the phonetic composi-tion of Vietnamese syllables may refer to (Tran etal., 2006; Vu et al, 2005).3 Reduplication in VietnameseReduplication is one of the methods for creatingmulti-syllable words in Vietnamese.
A reduplica-64ToneOnset RhymeGlide Nucleus CodaTable 3: Phonetic structure of Vietnamese sylla-blestive word is characterized by a phenomenon calledphonetic interchange, in which one or several pho-netic elements of a syllable are repeated followinga certain number of specific rules.From the point of view of sense, the redupli-cation in Vietnamese usually indicates a diminu-tive of adjectives, which can also be found in He-brew, or a pluralization in Malay, in Thai and inIndonesian, or an intensivity as the use of par-tial reduplication in Japanese, Thai, Cantonese andChamorro (an Austronesian language spoken onGuam and the Northern Mariana Islands).
In thisaspect, Vietnamese reduplication serves similarfunctions as those of reduplication in several Asianlanguages, as reported in an investigation of Asianlanguage reduplication within the NEDO project(Tokunaga et al , 2008a; Tokunaga et al , 2008b).The Vietnamese reduplication creates an ex-pressional sense connecting closely to the pho-netic material of Vietnamese, a language of richmelody.
Consequently, there are many Vietnamesereduplicative words which are difficult to inter-pret to foreigners, though in general, native Viet-namese speakers always use and understand themcorrectly (Di?p, 1999).Vietnamese reduplicative words can be classi-fied into three classes basing on the number ofsyllables they contain: two-syllable (or bi-syllabic)reduplicative words, three-syllable (or tri-syllabic)reduplicative words and four-syllable reduplicativewords.
The bi-syllabic class is the most importantclass because of two reasons: (1) bi-syllabic redu-plicative words make up more than 98% amount ofreduplicative words, that is, almost reduplicativewords has two syllables; and (2) bi-syllabic redu-plicative words embody principle characteristicsof the reduplication phenomenon in both phone as-pect and sense formation aspect.
For these reasons,in this paper, we address only bi-syllabic redu-plicative words and call them reduplicative wordsfor short, if there is no confusion.As presented in the previous section, a syllablehas a strict structure containing three parts: the on-set, the rhyme and the tone.
Basing on the phoneticinterchange of a syllable, we distinguish two typesof reduplication:?
full reduplication, where the whole syllable isrepeated;?
partial reduplication, where either the onsetis repeated or the rhyme and the tone are re-peated.In this work, we constraint ourselves by focus-ing only on the construction of an efficient com-putational model applied for reduplicative wordswhich have clear and well-defined formation prin-ciples.
These words can be classified into threetypes investigated in detail in the following sub-sections.
In given examples, the base syllables (orroot syllable, or root for short) are the ones whichare underlined.
The reduplication that has unde-fined or incomplete formation rules will be tackledin future works.3.1 Full ReduplicationIn this type of reduplication, the root is identicallyrepeated; there is only a slight difference on stressin pronunciation.
For example, hao hao (a littlesimilar), l?m l?m (intentional), ?
?ng ?
?ng (acci-dentally dertermined), l?
l?
(silently).
In the Viet-namese lexicon there are 274 reduplicative wordsof this type.In principle, there appears to be many redu-plicative words of this type whose their roots maybe whatever syllables bearing whatever tone, forinstance ??
?
?, h?
h?, s?ng s?ng, ch?m ch?m.However, in consequence of the difference ofstress between the root and the reduplicant, thetone of the reduplicant is changed in order to bein harmony with the root, for the sake of morereadability and audibility (?easier to read, easierto hear?).
This consequence leads to the formationof reduplicative words of the second type whichwe call reduplication with tone according.3.2 Reduplication with Tone AccordingAs presented above, the difference between tone ofthe root and the reduplicant is a consequence of thedifference between their stress which is expressedby their tones.
This creates reduplicative words ofthe second type; for example, ?o ??
(reddish), h?h?
(in the bloom of youth), s?ng s?ng (statly, highand majestic), ch?m ch?m (rather slow).
The toneproperties (low or high pitch, flat or non-flat) arenow put into use.65Reduplicant Root #a ?
72a ?
128?
?
27?
?
80Sum 307Table 4: Statistic of the second type reduplicationThe prosodic influence is responsible for thecreation of the reduplicant from its root.
As a re-sult, the combination of tones between two sylla-bles is realized in the following principle: non-flattones of the roots are matched against a corre-sponding flat tones of their reduplicants.
That is,the non-flat root has to select for it the flat redupli-cant belonging to the same pitch, i.e., in the samerow.
In this type of reduplicative words, the root isstressed in pronunciation.A detailed statistic about these reduplicativewords with respect to the combination of tonesis given in Table 4.
There are 307 reduplicativewords of the second type.3.3 Reduplication with Final ConsonantAccordingIn this type of reduplication, there is not only thedifference between tones of the root and the redu-plicant but also the difference between their finalconsonants (hence their penultimates).
Some ex-amples of this type of reduplication which we callthe third reduplication type are:?
c?m c?p (clatter, shiver), l?m l?p (pop pop),x?m x?p (a little full), thi?m thi?p (fallasleep), n?m n?p (be in a state of suspense)?
gi?n gi?t (sourish), ng?n ng?t (burn vio-lently), ph?n ph?t (light red), hun h?t (pro-found), san s?t (be very close to, adjoining)?
v?ng v?c (very clear), nh?ng nh?c (a littleache), r?ng r?c (brightly), ph?ng ph?c (verysilent), ch?nh ch?ch (a little oblique), anh ?ch(feeling bloated).The practical observation shows that the modifica-tion of final consonant from the root to the dupli-cate also has a clear rule: the noisy phone of theroot is transformed to a nasal phone of the redu-plicant as shown in Table 5.Example At root At reduplicantNoisy phone Nasal phone?m ?p -p -mph?n ph?t -t -nv?ng v?c -c -nganh ?ch -ch -nhTable 5: Transformation rules of final consonantsRoot Reduplicant #-p -m 52-t -n 96-c -ng 56-ch -nh 28Sum 232Table 6: Statistic of the third type reduplicationThe transformation of final consonant occursonly with the roots having as final consonant p,t, or c. The principle of tone combination is thesame as that of the second reduplication type.A detailed statistic about these reduplicativewords is given in the Table 6.
There are 232 redu-plicative words of the third type.Briefly, the total number of reduplicative wordsof all the three types of reduplication is 813, mak-ing up about 813/28, 416 ?
2.86% of the numberof two-syllable words.4 ImplementationWe report in this section the construction of a com-putational model for recognition and productionof the three types of reduplication presented inthe previous section.
We have implemented finite-state sequential transducers (FSTs) which are ableto recognize and produce corresponding types ofreduplicative words.
These devices operate on thesame input and output alphabets, say?, containingall Vietnamese characters.FSTs are formal devices for encoding regular re-lations.
A regular relation is a mapping betweentwo regular languages.
In our cases, these lan-guages are sets of Vietnamese root and reduplicantsyllables.We adapted nice and efficient algorithms devel-oped by (Daciuk et al, 2000) to incrementally con-struct minimal transducers from a source of data.These algorithms are originally designed to buildoptimal deterministic finite-state automata on-the-fly but they can also be used to construct optimal66sequential transducers.
We could consider simplythat the alphabet of the automata would be ???
;output strings of ??
are associated with the fi-nal states of the lexicon and they are only out-puted once corresponding valid inputs from ?
arerecognized.
Interested readers are invited to referto (Daciuk et al, 2000) for further detail of the al-gorithms for building optimal automata on-the-fly.4.1 First Type TransducerIn the first type reduplication, the root and thereduplicant is completely identical in writing; theyare only distinguished by a stress in pronunciation.We can simply construct a deterministic finite-state transducer (FST) f1 that produces redupli-cants from their roots in which the output string la-beled on each arc is the same as its input character;that is f1(x) = x where x is a syllable in the firsttype duplication.
As an illustration, the followingminimal FST recognizes and generates three firsttype reduplicative words lu?n lu?n (always), l?
l?
(silently), kh?n kh?n (raucous).q0q1q2q3q4q5q6k:kh:h ?:?n:nl:l?:?u:u?
:?The minimal FST f1 recognizing all 274 redu-plicative words of the first type consists of 90states in which 16 states are final ones.
It has 330transitions, the maximum number of outtransitionsfrom a state is 28.4.2 Second Type TransducerIn the second type reduplication, the root has annon-flat tone while its reduplicant has the corre-sponding flat tone.
A root determines for it theunique reduplicant.
Hence we can construct a se-quential FST f2 which is able to generate redupli-cants from roots.For instance, consider two reduplicative wordsof the second type lem l?m (glib) and lem l?m(voluble).
They can be recognized by the minimalsequential FST f2 such that f2(l?m) = lem andf2(l?m) = lem as depicted in the following figure:q0 q1 q2 q3l:l?:e?
:em:mSimilarly, the minimal FST f2 which gener-ates three reduplicative words gi?ng gi?ng (a littlesimilar), ?
?ng ?
?ng (interminable) and ?
?m ?
?m(fixedly) is as follows:q0 q1q2q3 q4q5q6 q7g:g i:i ?:?
n:ng:g?:??:??
:?m:mThe minimal FST f2 recognizing all 307 redu-plicative words of the second type consists of 93states in which 11 states are final ones.
It has 371transitions, the maximum number of outtransitionsfrom a state is 22.4.3 Third Type TransducerThe roots and reduplicants in the third type redu-plication are not only combined by principles offlat and non-flat tones, they are also distinguisedby last consonants.
We know that in the case theroot ends with c, its reduplicant is one characterlonger than it.
The other three transformations oflast consonants do not change the length of thereduplicants with respect to that of the roots.Hence the FST f3 which recognizes the thirdtype reduplication is required to modify the tonesof the reduplicants with respect to those of theroots on the one hand, and to transform last conso-nants of the roots on the other hand.
For example,the minimal FST f3 recognizing four reduplicativewords bi?ng bi?c (bluish green), bi?n bi?t (leavebehind no traces whatsoever), b?nh b?ch (a seriesof thudding blows) and b?m b?p (pop pop) is givenin the figure below:q0 q1q2q3q4q5q6q7q8b:b i:i?:?
c:ng?:?
t:n?
:?c:n h:h?
:?p:mThe minimal FST f3 recognizing all 232 redu-plicative words of the third type consists of 5967states in which 2 states are final ones.
It has 262transitions, the maximum number of outtransitionsfrom a state is 19.Once all the three transducers have been con-structed, we can unify them by making use ofthe standard union operation on transducers toobtain a sequential FST which is able to recog-nize all the three class of reduplication presentedabove (Mohri, 1996; Mohri, 1997).4.4 A Software PackageWe have developed a Java software package namedvnReduplicator which implements the above-mentioned computational model of Vietnamesereduplication.
The core component of this pack-age is a minimal FST which can recognize a sub-stantial amount of reduplicative bi-syllabic wordsfound in the Vietnamese language.The first application of this core model whichwe have developed is a reduplication scanner forVietnamese.
We use the minimal FST of the coremodel to build a tool for fast detection of redu-plication.
The tool scans a given input text andproduces a list of all the recognized reduplicativewords.
The detection process is very fast since theunderlying transducer operates in optimal time inthe sense that the time to recognize a syllable cor-responds to the time required to follow a singlepath in the deterministic finite-state machine, andthe length of the path is the length of the syllablemeasured in characters.As an example, given the following input text?Anh ?i bi?n bi?t.
C?
v?n ch?
anh h?n 20 n?m?
?ng ??ng.
?2,the scanner marks two reduplicative words asshown in the italic face.We are currently investigating another usefulapplication of the core model for a partial spellchecking of Vietnamese text.
It is observed thatpeople may make typhographical errors in writinglike ?
?ng ?
?ng instead of the correct word ??ng??ng.
In such cases, the computational model canbe exploited to detect the potential errors and sug-gest corrections.The reduplication model could also help im-prove the accuracy of Vietnamese lexical rec-ognizers in particular and the accuracy of Viet-namese word segmentation systems in general.2He has left behind no traces whatsoever.
She has beenwaiting for him for 20 years.The reduplication scanner will be integrated to vn-Tokenizer3 - an open source and highly accuratetokenizer for Vietnamese texts (Le et al, 2008).The software and related resources will be dis-tributed under the GNU General Public Lisence4and it will be soon available online5.5 Conclusion and Future WorkWe have presented for the first time a compu-tational model for the reduplication of the Viet-namese language.
We show that a large class ofreduplicative words can be modeled effectively bysequential finite-state string-to-string transducers.The analysis of the various patterns of redu-plication of the Vietnamese language has twofoldcontributions.
On the one hand, it gives usefulinformation on identification of spelling variantsin Vietnamese texts.
On the other hand, it givesan explicit formalization of precedence relation-ships in the phonology, and as a result helps or-dering and modeling phonological processes be-fore transfer of the presentation to the articulatoryinterface.It is argued that the relation between morphol-ogy and phonology is an intimate one, both syn-chronically and diachronically.
As mentioned ear-lier, Vietnamese reduplication is always accompa-nied by a modification of phone and tone for asymmetric and harmonic posture.
We thus believethat the compact finite-state description of a largeclass of reduplication would help connect mor-phosyntactic attributes to individual phonologicalcomponents of a set of Vietnamese word formsand contribute to the improvement of Vietnameseautomatic speech recognition systems.As mentioned earlier, the current work does nothandle partial reduplication in which either the on-set is repeated or the rhyme and the tone of sylla-bles are repeated, for example b?ng b?nh (bob),ch?m ch?m (open slightly one?s lips), l?m c?m(doting), l?ng t?ng (perplexed, embarrassed).
Par-tial reduplication is a topic which has been wellstudied for a long time by Vietnamese linguistscommunity.
It has been shown that partial redu-plicative words also have certain principle forma-tion rules (Di?p, 1999; UBKHXH, 1983).
Hence,partial reduplicative words could also be gener-ated and recognized by an appropriate finite-state3http://www.loria.fr/?lehong/tools/vnTokenizer.php4http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html5http://www.loria.fr/?lehong/projects.php68model which encodes precisely their formationrules.
This is an interesting topic of our futurework in constructing a rather complete computa-tional model for Vietnamese bi-syllabic reduplica-tion.Furthermore, in addition to the bi-syllabic redu-plication forms, there exists also three or four syl-lable reduplication forms, for example c?n c?n con(very little), t?o t?o teo (very small), or v?i v?iv?ng v?ng (hurry), ?
?ng ??
?
?ng ?
?nh (deliber-ate).
These reduplication forms involve the copy-ing operation of morphological structures whichis a non-regular operation.
Non-regular operationsare problematic in that they cannot be cast in termsof composition ?
the regular operation of ma-jor importance in finite-state devices, while finite-state devices cannot handle unbounded copying.However, the question of the possibility for an el-egant account to reduce these specific kinds ofreduplication to purely regular mechanisms wouldbe of interest for further research to extend and im-prove the core reduplication components for Viet-namese.
Unknown reduplicative word guessing isanother interesting and useful topic since the lexi-con can never cover all reduplicative words.AcknowledgementWe gratefully acknowledge helpful comments andvaluable suggestions from three anonymous re-viewers for improving the paper.ReferencesYael Cohen-Sygal and Shuly Wintner.
2006.
Finite-State Registered Automata for Non-ConcatenativeMorphology.
Computational Linguistics, Vol.
32,No.
1, Pages 49?82.Jan Daciuk, Stoyan Mihov, Bruce W. Watson andRichard E. Watson.
2000 Incremental Constructionof Minimal Acyclic Finite-State Automata.
Compu-tational Linguistics, Vol.
26, No.
1, 2000.Le H. Phuong, Nguyen T. M. Huyen, Roussanaly A.,Ho T. Vinh.
2008 A hybrid approach to word seg-mentation of Vietnamese texts.
Proceedings of the2nd International Conference on Language and Au-tomata Theory and Applications, Tarragona, Spain.Springer LNCS 5196, 2008.Di?p Quang Ban and Ho?ng V?n Thung.
1999 Ng?ph?p Ti?ng Vi?t (Vietnamese Grammar).
NXB Gi?od?c, H?
N?i, Vi?t Nam.
?o?n Thi?n Thu?t.
2003 Ng?
?m ti?ng Vi?t (Viet-namese Phonetics).
NXB ?
?i h?c Qu?c gia H?
N?i,H?
N?i, Vi?t Nam.
?o?n Thi?n Thu?t (Editor-in-chief) and Nguy?n Kh?nhH?
and Ph?m Nh?
Qu?nh.
2003 A Concise Viet-namese Grammar (For Non-native Speakers)).
Th?Gi?i Publishers, H?
N?i, Vi?t Nam.H?u ?
?t and Tr?n Tr?
D?i and ?
?o Thanh Lan.
1998C?
s?
ti?ng Vi?t (Basis of Vietnamese).
NXB Gi?od?c, H?
N?i, Vi?t Nam.Ronald Kaplan andMartin Kay.
1994.
RegularModelsof Phonological Rule Systems.
Computational Lin-guistics, Vol.
20, No.
3, Pages 331?378.Koskenniemi Kimmo.
1983 Two-Level Morphology:A General Computational Model for Word-FormRecognition and Production.
The Department ofGeneral Linguistics, University of Helsinki.Mehryar Mohri.
1996 On Some Applications of Finite-State Automata Theory to Natural Language Pro-cessing.
Natural Language Engineering, Vol.
2, No.1, Pages 61?80.MehryarMohri.
1997 Finite-State Transducers in Lan-guage and Speech Processing.
Computational Lin-guistics, Vol.
23.Nguy?n Th?
Minh Huy?n, Laurent Romary, MathiasRossignol and V?
Xu?n L??ng.
2006.
A Lexiconfor Vietnamese LanguageProcessing.
Language Re-sources and Evaluation, Vol.
40, No.
3?4.Tokunaga T., Kaplan D., Huang C-R., Hsieh S-K, Cal-zolari N., Monachini M., Soria C., Shirai K., Sorn-lertlamvanich V., Charoenporn T., Xia Y., 2008.Adapting international standard for Asian languagetechnologies.
Proceedings of The 6th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2008)Tokunaga T. et al 2008.
Developing InternationalStandards of Language Resources for Semantic WebApplications Research Report of the InternationalJoint Research Program (NEDOGrant) for FY 2007,http://www.tech.nedo.go.jp/PDF/100013569.pdfTran D. D. and Castelli E. and Serignat J. F. and TrinhV.
L. and Le X. H. 2006.
Linear F0 Contour Modelfor Vietnamese Tones and Vietnamese Syllable Syn-thesis with TD-PSOLA.
Proceedings of TAL2006,La Rochelle, France.Thang Tat Vu, Dung Tien Nguyen, Mai Chi Luong andJohn-Paul Hosom.
2006.
Vietnamese Large Vocab-ulary Continuous Speech Recognition.
Proceedingsof Eurospeech 2005, Lisboa.
?y ban Khoa h?c X?
h?i Vi?t Nam.
1983.
Ng?
ph?pti?ng Vi?t (Vietnamese Grammar).
Nh?
xu?t b?nKhoa h?c X?
h?i ?
H?
N?i, Vi?t Nam.69
