Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Text and Citation Analysis for Scholarly Digital Libraries, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 62?70,Suntec, Singapore, 7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPNLP Support for Faceted Navigation in Scholarly CollectionsMarti A. HearstSchool of Information, UC Berkeley102 South Hall, Berkeley, CA 94720hearst@ischool.berkeley.eduEmilia StoicaAsk.com555 12th Street, Oakland, CA 94607emilia.stoica@ask.comAbstractHierarchical faceted metadata is a provenand popular approach to organizing infor-mation for navigation of information col-lections.
More recently, digital librarieshave begun to adopt faceted navigation forcollections of scholarly holdings.
A keyimpediment to further adoption is the needfor the creation of subject-oriented facetedmetadata.
The Castanet alorithm was de-veloped for the purpose of (semi) auto-mated creation of such structures.
This pa-per describes the application of Castanet tojournal title content, and presents an eval-uation suggesting its efficacy.
This is fol-lowed by a discussion of areas for futurework.1 IntroductionFaceted navigation for searching and browsing?vertical?
content collections has become the stan-dard interface paradigm for e-commerce shoppingweb sites.
Faceted navigation, when properly de-signed, has been shown to be understood by usersand preferred over other organizations (Hearst etal., 2002; Yee et al, 2003; English et al, 2001).Although text clustering is an easily automatedtechnique, numerous studies have found that theresults of clustering are difficult for lay people tounderstand (Kleiboemer et al, 1996; Russell et al,2006; Hornb?k and Fr?kj?r, 1999) and that thecoherent and predictable structure of categoricalmetadata is superior from a usability prespective(Rodden et al, 2001; Pratt et al, 1999; Hearst,2006a).An interface using hierarchical faceted naviga-tion simultaneously shows previews of where togo next and how to return to previous states inthe exploration, while seamlessly integrating freetext search within the category structure.
Facetedmetadata provides organizing context for resultsand for subsequent queries, which can act as im-portant scaffolding for exploration and discovery.The mental work of searching an information col-lection is reduced by promoting recognition overrecall and suggesting logical but perhaps unex-pected alternatives, while at the same time avoid-ing empty results sets.Recently, faceted navigation has emerged as thedominant method for new interfaces for navigat-ing digital library collections.
The NCSU librarycatalog was an early adopter among university li-braries, using the Endeca product as its backend(Antelman et al, 2006).
A usability study with10 undergraduates comparing this system to theold library catalog interface found a 48% improve-ment in task completion time, although the studydid not account for the effects of facets vs. theeffects of fuller coverage in the keyword search.Additionally, a consortium of university li-braries (the OCLC) is now using the WorldCatshared catalog and interface, which features afaceted navigation component (see Figures 1 and2).
And another popular interface solution is pro-vided by AquaBrowser, in this case, shown on theUniversity of Chicago website (see Figure 3).
Arecent study on this site found significant benefitsattributable to the faceted navigation facility (Ol-son, 2007).
And finally, the online citation systemDBLP has not one but two different faceted inter-faces, as does the ACM Digital Library.These interfaces do a good job of allowing usersto filter by bibliographic attributes such as media,date, and library.
However, in most cases the sub-ject metadata still is not as rich as it should be tofully facilitate information browsing and discov-ery in these systems.
In fact, there are a number ofopen problems with the use of faceted navigationfor scholarly work.
Some of these have to do withhow best to present faceted navigation in the inter-face (Hearst, 2006b), but others are more relevant62Figure 1: Worldcat consortium digital library interface using faceted navigation.
The instance shown isthe University of California version, from http://berkeley.worldcat.org .Figure 2: Digital library interface with faceted navigation, continued, from http://berkeley.worldcat.org .63Figure 3: University of Chicago digital library interface using faceted navigation, using an interface fromAquaBrowser.to NLP, including:?
How to automatically or semi-automaticallycreate rich subject-oriented faceted metadatafor scholarly text??
How to automatically assign informationitems to faceted category labels?This paper describes the results of applyingCastanet, a semi-automated approach to creatingfaceted metadata, to a scholarly collection.
(Inpast work it has been shown to work well on a dif-ferent kind of text (Stoica et al, 2007; Stoica andHearst, 2004).)
It then discusses some open prob-lems in building navigation structures for schol-arly digital libraries.2 Creating Faceted MetadataThis section first defines faceted metadata, andthen describes the CastaNet alorithm.
More de-tails about the algorithm can be found in a priorpublication (Stoica et al, 2007).Rather than one large category hierarchy,faceted metadata consists of a set of categories(flat or hierarchical), each of which correspondsto a different facet (dimension or feature type) rel-evant to the collection to be navigated.
After thefacets are designed, each item in the collection isassigned any number of labels from the facets.Faceted metadata is intermediate in complexitybetween flat categories and full knowledge repre-sentation.
The idea is to develop a set of ?orthog-onal?
categories that characterize the informationspace in a meaningful way, using terminology thatis useful for browsing the contents of a domain.Each facet is a different topic, subject, attribute, orfeature, and some facets have hierarchical ?is-a?structure.
For instance, the facets of a biomedicalcollection should cover disease, anatomy, drugs,symptoms, side-effects, properties of experimen-tal subjects, and so on.
Each biomedical articlecan then be assigned any number of category la-bels from any number of facets.
An article on theeffects of tamoxifen on ovarian cancer when testedon mice could then be navigated to by first startingwith cancer, then selecting drug tamoxifen, andthen body part ovary, or first with tamoxifen, thennavigating to ovary, and further refining by dis-ease type.
This ability to ?mix and match?
bothfor describing the articles and for navigating thecategory structure is key.The term ?faceted classification?
was deliber-ately chosen in the Flamenco project to echo theold library science term of that name (Hearst,2000), but with a rejection of the strict terms re-quired for construction of controlled vocabulary,which mandates exhaustive, mutually exclusivecategory composition.
Rather, the faceted naviga-64tion approach for design of search interfaces callsfor category systems that are expressed at a mean-ingful level of description, use approachable lan-guage (unless designed for specialists), are consis-tent in terms of specificity at each level, avoidingbecoming too broad or too deep.The most difficult part of the design is determin-ing whether or not compound concepts should becreated.
For instance, when evaluating tags for adigital library like librarything, should terms like?african history?
and ?british literature?
be sepa-rated into two facets, one containing major writingtypes (history, literature), and another nationalities(african, british), or should the modifying struc-ture be retained, as there are many kinds of historyand many kinds of literature?
Most likely, the an-swer should depend on the makeup of the collec-tion and the usage that the users are expected towant to make of it.The next subsections briefly describe relatedwork in automated creation of structure from text,the Castanet alorithm and its output on journalarticle title text, and the results of a usability studyon this output.2.1 Related WorkOne way to create faceted metadata is to start withexisting vocabularies, and in fact work has beendone on this area.
The Library of Congress Sub-ject headings are shown in the U Chicago cata-log, despite a statement by Antelman et al (2006)about the ?unsuitability of Library of CongressSubject Headings (LCSH) as an entry vocabulary.
?There has also been work on converting LCSHinto faceted metadata (Anderson and Hofmann,2006).
Work on the Flamenco project convertedthe Art and Architecture thesaurus to a faceted cat-egory system manually (Hearst et al, 2002).
How-ever, automated techniques are desirable.Other methods that are influential but claimedto make a meaningful category structure, but notnecessarily a faceted one, include the LDA (LatentDirichlet Allocation) method (Blei et al, 2003),which uses a generative probabilistic model of dis-crete data to create a model of documents?
topics.It attempts to analyze a text corpus and extract thetopics that combine to form the documents.
Theoutput of the algorithm was originally evaluatedin terms of perplexity reduction but not in terms ofunderstandability of the topics produced.Sanderson and Croft (1999) propose a methodcalled Subsumption for building a hierarchy for aset of documents retrieved for a query.
For twoterms x and y, x is said to subsume y if the follow-ing conditions hold: P (x|y) ?
0.8, P (y|x) < 1.To evaluate the algorithm the authors asked 8 par-ticipants to look at parent-child pairs and statewhether or not they were ?interesting.?
Partici-pants found 67% to be interesting as comparedto 51% for randomly chosen pairs of words.
Ofthose interesting pairs, 72% were found to displaya ?type-of?
relationship.Another class of solutions make use of exist-ing lexical hierarchies to build category hierar-chies, as we do in this paper.
For example, Nav-igli and Velardi (2003) use WordNet (Fellbaum,1998) to build a complex ontology consisting ofa wide range of relation types (demonstrated ona travel agent domain), as opposed to a set ofhuman-readable hierarchical facets.
Mihalcea andMoldovan (2001) describe a sophisticated methodfor simplifying WordNet in general, rather thantailoring it to a specific collection.Zelevinsky et al (2008) used an approachof looking at keywords assigned by authorsof ACM publications to documents, computingwhich terms had high importance within thosedocuments, and then using the highest scoringamong those documents to assign new keywords(referred to in the paper as tags) to the documents.The tags were shown as query term refinements ina digital library interface.Only limited related work has attempted tomake faceted category hierarchies explicitly.Dakka et al (Dakka and Ipeirotis, 2008; Dakkaet al, 2005) is one of these.
Their approach is acombination of Subsumption and Castanet; theyuse lexical resources like WordNet and Wikipediato find structure among words, but also use themto determine which words in a collection are mostuseful to include in a faceted system.
The facet hi-erarchy is made via Subsumption.
The evaluationof their most recent work on news text finds strongresults for assessments made by judges of preci-sion and recall.
Furthermore, when facets wereshown in a search interface to five users, the key-word usage dropped in favor of clicking on cate-gories, as task completion time was reduced whilesatisfaction remained unchanged.
No examplesof facet categories produced by the algorithm areshown, and the role of hierarchy is not clear, butthe approach appears especially promising for de-65termining which words of long documents to in-clude in building facet systems.2.2 Castanet Applied to Journal TitlesThe main idea behind the Castanet alorithm isto carve out a structure from the hypernym (?is-a?)
relations within the WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998)lexical database (Stoica et al, 2007; Stoica andHearst, 2004).
The Castanet alorithm assumesthat there is text associated with each item in thecollection, or at least with a representative subsetof the items.
The textual descriptions are usedboth to build the facet hierarchies and to assignitems (documents, images, citations, etc.)
to thefacets, and the text can be fragmented.The algorithm has five major steps which arebriefly outlined here.
For details, see (2007).1.
Select target terms from textual descriptionsof information items.2.
Build the Core Tree:?
For each term, if the term is unambigu-ous, add its synset?s IS-A path to theCore Tree.?
Increment the counts for each node inthe synset?s path with the number ofdocuments in which the target term ap-pears.3.
Augment the Core Tree with the remainingterms?
paths:?
For each candidate IS-A path for the am-biguous term, choose the path for whichthere is the most document representa-tion in the Core Tree.4.
Compress the augmented tree.5.
Remove top-level categories, yielding a set offacet hierarchies.In addition to augmenting the nodes in the tree,adding in a new term increases a count associ-ated with each node on its path; this count corre-sponds to how many documents the term occurs in.Thus the more common a term, the more weight itplaces on the path it falls within.
The Core Treeacts as the ?backbone?
for the final category struc-ture.
It is built by using paths derived from unam-biguous terms, with the goal of biasing the finalstructure towards the appropriate senses of words.Currently a word can appear in only one sense inthe final structure; allowing multiple senses is anarea of research.Figures 4 and 5 show the output of the Cas-tanet alorithm when applied to the titles of jour-nals from the bioscience literature.
Note that eventhe highly ambiguous common anatomy words aresuccessfully grouped using this algorithm, pre-sumably because of the requirement that eachword occur in only one location in the ontologyand because the anatomy part of the ontology isstrongly favored during the part of the processin which the core tree is built with unambiguousterms.
(Although some versions of Castanet use anadvanced version of WordNet Domains (Magnini,2000), they were not used in the construction ofthis category set.
)As reported earlier (Stoica et al, 2007), an eval-uation of this algorithm was conducted by askinginformation architects with expertise in the do-main over which the algorithm was run to statewhether or not they would like to use the outputof the algorithm to build a website.
The output ofCastanet was compared to Subsumption (Sander-son and Croft, 1999) and to LDA (Blei et al,2003).As reported earlier, on a recipes collection, all34 information architects overwhelming preferredCastanet.
They were asked to respond to howlikely they would be to use the output, on a scaleof: definitely no, no, yes, definitely yes.
For Cas-tanet, 85% of the evaluators said yes or definitelyyes for intent to use.
Subsumption received 38%answering yes or definitely yes, and LDA was re-jected by all participants.The study was also conducted using a biologi-cal journal titles collection.
3275 titles were used(although a significant number are not in Englishand so many are missed by the algorithm).
The15 participants who evaluated the Biomedical ti-tles collection were required to be frequent usersof PubMed (the online library for biomedicine),but were not required to be information architects,as it was difficult to finding information architectswith biological expertise.
These participants werebiologists, doctors, medical students and medicallibrarians.7 participants saw both LDA and Castanet, and8 participants saw both Subsumption and Cas-tanet (a pilot test found that participants who sawboth Subsumption and LDA became very frus-trated with the tasks, so the two options were com-pared pairwise to Castanet for subsequent trials).For Castanet, 11 out of 15 participants (73%) an-66Figure 4: Castanet output on journal title text.Figure 5: Castanet output on journal title text, continued.67Figure 6: LDA output on journal title text.Figure 7: Subsumption output on journal title text.68swered yes or definitely yes to a desire to use itsoutput.
1 out of 7 participants answered yes to adesire to use LDA, and 1 out of 8 answered yes toSubsumption.
LDA received 4 ?definitely no?
re-sponses, whereas Subsumption received only oneof these, and no one said definitely no to Castanet.2.3 Open ProblemsAlthough quite useful ?out of the box,?
the Cas-tanet alorithm could benefit by several improve-ments and additions:1.
The processing of the terms should recognizespelling variations (such as aging vs. ageing)and morphological variations.
Verbs and ad-jectives are often quite important for a collec-tion and should be included, but with caution.2.
In a related point, the system should have away of suggesting synonyms to annotate agiven node, as opposed to listing closely re-lated words as children or siblings of one an-other.3.
Some terms should be allowed to occur withmore than one sense if this is required by thedataset.
For example, the term brain is an-notated with two domains, Anatomy and Psy-chology, which are both relevant domains fora biomedical journal collection.4.
Words that appear in noun compounds andphrases that are not in WordNet should re-ceive special processing.5.
Currently if a term is in a document it is as-sumed to use the sense assigned in the facethierarchies; this is often incorrect, and soterms should be disambiguated within thetext before automatic category assignment isdone.6.
WordNet is not exhaustive and some mecha-nism is needed to improve coverage for un-known terms.7.
Castanet seems to work better when appliedto short pieces of text (e.g., journal titles vs.full text); to remedy this, better methods areneeded to select the target terms.8.
A method for dynamically adding facets andadding terms to facets should be developed,especially a method for allowing user tags tobe incorporated into the exising facet hierar-chies.Recent work by Dakka et al (Dakka and Ipeiro-tis, 2008) can help with point 7, and some recentwork by Koren et al (Koren et al, 2008) seemspromising for 8.Robust evaluation methods are also needed;making use of log information about which facetsare heavily used can help inform decisions aboutwhich facets work well and which need modifica-tion or additions.Acknowledgements: Megan Richardson pro-vided valuable contributions in her work on thestudy reported on here.
Emilia Stoica did thiswork while a postdoctoral researcher at UC Berke-ley.ReferencesJ.D.
Anderson and M.A.
Hofmann.
2006.
A fullyfaceted syntax for Library of Congress subjectheadings.
Cataloging & Classification Quarterly,43(1):7?38.K.
Antelman, E. Lynema, and A.K.
Pace.
2006.
To-ward a twenty-first century library catalog.
Infor-mation technology and libraries, 25(3):128?138.David Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan.2003.
Latent dirichlet alocation.
Journal of Ma-chine Learning Research, 3:993?1022.W.
Dakka and P.G.
Ipeirotis.
2008.
Automatic extrac-tion of useful facet hierarchies from text databases.In IEEE 24th International Conference on Data En-gineering, 2008.
ICDE 2008, pages 466?475.W.
Dakka, P.G.
Ipeirotis, and K.R.
Wood.
2005.
Au-tomatic construction of multifaceted browsing inter-faces.
In Proceedings of the 14th ACM internationalconference on Information and knowledge manage-ment, pages 768?775.
ACM New York, NY, USA.J.
English, M.A.
Hearst, R. Sinha, K. Swearingen,and K.-P. Yee.
2001.
Examining the usabilityof web site search.
Unpublished Manuscript,http://flamenco.berkley.edu/papers/epicurious-study.pdf.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press.M.A.
Hearst, J. English, R. Sinha, K. Swearingen, andK.-P. Yee.
2002.
Finding the flow in web site search.Communications of the ACM, 45(9), September.M.A.
Hearst.
2000.
Next Generation Web Search: Set-ting Our Sites.
IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin,23(3):38?48.M.A.
Hearst.
2006a.
Clustering Versus Faceted Cat-egories For Information Exploration.
Communca-tions Of The Acm, 49(4):59?61.69M.A.
Hearst.
2006b.
Design recommendations forhierarchical faceted search interfaces.
In SIGIR?06Workshop On Faceted Search, Seattle, Wa, August.K.
Hornb?k and E. Fr?kj?r.
1999.
Do Thematic MapsImprove Information Retrieval.
Human-ComputerInteraction (INTERACT?99), pages 179?186.A.J.
Kleiboemer, M.B.
Lazear, and J.O.
Pedersen.1996.
Tailoring a retrieval system for naive users.
InProceedings of the Fifth Annual Symposium on Doc-ument Analysis and Information Retrieval (SDAIR?96), Las Vegas, NV.J.
Koren, Y. Zhang, and X. Liu.
2008.
Personalizedinteractive faceted search.
WWW ?08: Proceedingof the 17th international conference on World WideWeb.Bernardo Magnini.
2000.
Integrating subject fieldcodes into WordNet.
In Proc.
of LREC 2000,Athens, Greece.Rada Mihalcea and Dan I. Moldovan.
2001.Ez.wordnet: Principles for automatic generation ofa coarse grained wordnet.
In Proc.
of FLAIRS Con-ference 2001, May.Roberto Navigli, Paola Velardi, and Aldo Gangemi.2003.
Ontology learning and its application to auto-mated terminology translation.
Intelligent Systems,18(1):22?31.T.A.
Olson.
2007.
Utility of a faceted catalog forscholarly research.
Library Hi Tech, 25(4):550?561.W.
Pratt, M.A.
Hearst, and L. Fagan.
1999.
Aknowledge-based approach to organizing retrieveddocuments.
In Proceedings of 16th Annual Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence(AAAI 99), Orlando,FL.K.
Rodden, W. Basalaj, D. Sinclair, and K. R. Wood.2001.
Does organisation by similarity assist im-age browsing?
In Proceeedings of ACM CHI 2001,pages 190?197.D.M.
Russell, M. Slaney, Y. Qu, and M. Hous-ton.
2006.
Being literate with large documentcollections: Observational studies and cost struc-ture tradeoffs.
In Proceedings of the 39th AnnualHawaii International Conference on System Sci-ences (HICSS?06).Mark Sanderson and Bruce Croft.
1999.
Deriving con-cept hierarchies from text.
In Proceedings of SIGIR1999.E.
Stoica and M. Hearst.
2004.
Nearly-automatedmetadata hierarchy creation.
In Companion Pro-ceedings of HLT-NAACL?04, pages 117?120.E.
Stoica, M.A.
Hearst, and M. Richardson.
2007.
Au-tomating Creation of Hierarchical Faceted MetadataStructures.
In Human Language Technologies: TheAnnual Conference of the North American Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics(NAACL-HLT 2007), pages 244?251.K.-P. Yee, K. Swearingen, K. Li, and M.A.
Hearst.2003.
Faceted metadata for image search andbrowsing.
In Proceedings of ACM CHI 2003, pages401?408.
ACM New York, NY, USA.V.
Zelevinsky, J. Wang, and D. Tunkelang.
2008.
Sup-porting Exploratory Search for the ACM Digital Li-brary.
In Workshop on Human-Computer Interac-tion and Information Retrieval (HCIR?08).70
