Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2009: the 10th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group in Discourse and Dialogue, pages 144?147,Queen Mary University of London, September 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsConcept Form Adaptation in Human-Computer DialogSvetlana Stoyanchev and Amanda StentDepartment of Computer ScienceStony Brook UniversityStony Brook, NY 11794-4400, USAsvetastenchikova@gmail.com, amanda.stent@gmail.comAbstractIn this work we examine user adaptationto a dialog system?s choice of realiza-tion of task-related concepts.
We ana-lyze forms of the time concept in the Let?sGo!
spoken dialog system.
We find thatusers adapt to the system?s choice of timeform.
We also find that user adaptationis affected by perceived system adapta-tion.
This means that dialog systems canguide users?
word choice and can adapttheir own recognition models to gain im-proved ASR accuracy.1 IntroductionConsiderable research has now demonstrated thathuman dialog partners exhibit lexical and syntac-tic convergence; that is, that in a human-humanconversation the participants become more simi-lar in their use of language over time (Brennanand Clark, 1996; Lockridge and Brennan, 2002;Pickering and others, 2000; Reitter et al, 2006).Several Wizard-of-Oz studies have also shown ev-idence of convergence in human-computer dia-log (Branigan and others, 2003; Brennan, 1996;Gustafson and others, 1997).In recent work, we examined user adaptation1to the system?s choice of verb and preposition us-ing the deployed Let?s Go!
spoken dialog system(Stoyanchev and Stent, 2009a).
This was the firststudy to look at convergence with real users of areal dialog system and examined user adaptationto verbs and prepositions.
The study describedin this paper is a follow-on to our previous study.1In this paper, we use the term adaptation to indicate di-rectional convergence, e.g.
user adaptation to a system.
Wemake no claims about the psycholinguistic models underly-ing this adaptation.Here we look at user adaptation to the system?schoice of realization of task-related concepts.
Inthis paper, we: (1) Confirm our previous resultsshowing that users adapt to the system?s choice ofwords, using transcribed data rather than ASR out-put; (2) Show that adaptation can persist over time;and (3) Show that user adaptation is strengthenedby perceived system adaptation.In addition to providing further evidence of con-vergence in human-computer dialog, our resultshave implications for dialog system design.
Cur-rently, much dialog systems research is devoted toimproving ASR accuracy, because this is a signifi-cant contributor to task success rates and to dialoglength.
One way to improve ASR accuracy is touse targeted language models.
Since users adapt tothe system?s choices of realization for task-relatedconcepts, we can predict the user?s choice of real-ization and use this to adjust the ASR?s languagemodel, improving ASR accuracy specifically onconcept words.
Another way to improve ASR ac-curacy is to guide the user into using words that arelikely to be recognized correctly (Hockey and oth-ers, 2003; Sheeder and Balogh, 2003; Tomko andRosenfeld, 2006).
Our results imply that if the de-signer of a dialog system wants to improve ASRaccuracy, system prompts should be designed touse word choices that are more recognizable; and,when, possible, to be adaptive to the user?s choiceof form for task-related concepts.2 SystemWe conducted our experiment using the Let?s Go!deployed telephone-based spoken dialog systemwhich provides information about bus routes inPittsburgh (Raux and others, 2005).
Let?s Go!
an-swers the phones at the transit authority?s websiteoutside of normal business hours.
Its users are144SYS: Welcome to the CMU Let?s Go!
Bus InformationSystem.
How may I help you?USR: I?d like to go to Forbes and Murray.SYS: To Forbes and Murray.
Where are you leavingfrom?USR: Carnegie Mellon.SYS: From Carnegie Mellon.
What time would you liketo leave?USR: Ten thirty p.m.SYS: Leaving at ten thirty p. m.?USR: YesSYS: There are five buses running between CarnegieMellon and Forbes and Murray.
.
.Figure 1: Sample dialog with Let?s Go!Time form Example realizations FrequencyTIME four, five, six thirty.
.
.
31.1%APM four a.m., ten p.m., onefifteen p. m.43.5%POD four in the morn-ing/evening/afternoon/4.6%OCLOCK five o?clock 16%OTHER four o?clock p. m., sixteenhundred hours4.8%Table 1: Time forms in users?
utterances and theirrelative frequencies in one month of Let?s Go!2006 data.naive callers from the general population with areal task to perform.
In order to provide bus routeinformation, Let?s Go!
elicits values for severaltask-related concepts: an optional bus route num-ber, a departure place, a destination and a desiredtravel time.
Each concept is explicitly confirmed.Figure 1 shows a sample dialog with the system.In this work we investigate adaptation to thetime concept because it has multiple different re-alizations, as shown in Table 1.
This variabilityis not unique to time; however, it is the only task-related concept in Let?s Go!
that is not usuallyrealized using named entities (which exhibit lessvariability).3 MethodIn order to study adaptation, we need to identify aprime, a point in the conversation where one part-ner introduces a realization.
In Let?s Go!
the sys-tem always asks the user to specify a departuretime.
The user then typically says a time, whichthe system confirms (see Figure 1).
We simulatean ASR error on the user?s response to the sys-tem?s time request, so that when the system con-firms the departure time it confirms a time otherthan that recognized in the user?s response.
Tomake the system?s error more realistic, the timein the simulated error is a time that is phoneticallyclose to the time (hour and minute) recognized inthe user?s response.
The system?s confirmationprompt is our prime.The system runs in one of the three condi-tions: SYS TIME, SYS APM, or SYS POD.
Ineach condition it uses the corresponding time for-mat (TIME, APM, or POD as shown in Table 1).TIME is the most frequent form in the 2006 Let?sGo!
corpus, but it is potentially ambiguous as itcan mean either night or day.
APM is the shortestunambiguous form.
POD is longer and has a verylow frequency in the 2006 Let?s Go!
corpus.2We collected approximately 2000 dialogs withLet?s Go!
using this setup.
We used the ASRoutput to identify dialogs where a time appearsin the ASR output at least twice3.
We manuallytranscribed 50 dialogs for each experimental con-dition.
Some of these turned out not to containmentions of time either before or after the system?stime confirmation prompt, so we excluded them.We examine whether the user adapts to thesystem?s choice of form for realizing the timeconcept, both in the first time-containing post-confirmation utterance, and in the rest of the dialog(until the user hangs up or says ?New query?
).4 ResultsIn this section we first examine user adaptation tosystem?s choice of time expression, and then lookat how perceived system adaptation affects useradaptation.4.1 User adaptation to system time formIf the user adapts to the system?s time form, thenwe would expect to see a greater proportion of thesystem?s time form in user utterances followingthe prime.
We compare the proportion of threetime forms (APM, TIME, and POD) in each sys-tem condition for 1) Unprimed, 2) First After, and3) All After user?s utterances, as shown in Table 2.Unprimed utterances are the user?s time specifica-tion immediately prior to the prime (the system?sconfirmation prompt).
First After utterances areuser utterances immediately following the prime.All After utterances are all user utterances from theprime until the user either hangs up or says ?New2We would have liked to also include OCLOCK in theexperiment.
However, due to resource limitations we had tochoose only three conditions.3The most frequent user response to the system?s requestto specify a departure time is ?Now?
; we exclude these fromour experiment.145Unprimedsystem/user Usr:APM Usr:TIME Usr:PODSYS APM 25% 42% 8%SYS TIME 30% 52% 2%SYS POD 24% 49% 4%First Aftersystem/user Usr:APM Usr:TIME Usr:PODSYS APM 49% 29% ?
2%SYS TIME 21% ?
58% 0%SYS POD 29% 45% 5%All Aftersystem/user Usr:APM Usr:TIME Usr:PODSYS APM 63% 19% ?
3%SYS TIME 21% ?
50% 2%SYS POD 37% ?
38% 4%Table 2: Proportions of time forms in differentsystem prompt conditions.
The highest propor-tion among system conditions for each time formis highlighted.
Occurrences of time forms otherthan the three examined time forms are excludedfrom this table.
?
indicates a statistically signif-icant difference from the highlighted value in thecolumn (p < .05 with Bonferroni adjustment).
?indicates a statistically significant difference fromthe highlighted value in the column (p < .01 withBonferroni adjustment).query?.
To test the statistical significance of ourresults we perform inference on proportions for alarge sample.APM There are no statistically significant differ-ences in the proportions of Usr:APM4 forms inUnprimed utterances for the different system con-ditions.
The proportion of Usr:APM forms inFirst After utterances is significantly higher in theSYS APM condition than in the SYS TIME con-dition (p < .01), although not significantly dif-ferent than in the SYS POD condition.
The pro-portion of Usr:APM forms in the All After ut-terances is significantly higher in the SYS APMcondition than in both the SYS TIME and theSYS POD conditions (p < .01).
We conclude thatthere is user adaptation to system time form in theSYS APM condition.TIME There are no statistically significant dif-ferences in the proportions of Usr:TIME forms inUnprimed utterances for the different system con-ditions.
The proportions of Usr:TIME forms in theFirst After utterances in the SYS TIME conditionis significantly higher than that in the SYS APMcondition (p < .01), but not significantly higherthan that in the SYS POD condition.
The sameis true of Usr:TIME forms in the All After utter-4Usr:time-form refers to the occurrence of the time-formin a user?s utterance.condition keep adapt switch totaladaptive 81.8% - 18.2% 33non-adaptive 37.5% 29.1% 35.4% 48Table 3: Proportions of user actions in First Afterconfirmation utterancesances.
We conclude that there is user adaptation tosystem time form in the SYS TIME condition.POD We did not find statistically significant dif-ferences in Usr:POD forms for the different sys-tem conditions in either the Unprimed, First Afteror All After data.
Because this is the long unam-biguous form, users may have felt that it wouldnot be recognized or that it would be inefficient toproduce it.Figures 2 illustrates the effect of user adaptationon time form for the SYS APM and SYS TIMEconditions.4.2 The effect of system adaptation on useradaptationSometimes the user happens to use the same formin their initial specification of time that the systemuses in its confirmation prompt.
This gives the il-lusion that the system is adapting its choice of timeform to the user.
We examined whether users?
per-ception of system adaptation affected user adapta-tion in First After confirmation utterances.For this analysis we used only the dialogs inthe SYS APM and SYS TIME conditions sincethe POD form is rare in the Unprimed utterances.We distinguish between three possible user actionsfollowing the system?s confirmation prompt: 1)keep - use the same form as in the unprimed ut-terance; 2) adapt ?
switch to the same form as inthe system?s confirmation prompt; and 3) switch -switch to a different form than the one used in thesystem?s confirmation prompt or in the unprimedutterance.Table 3 shows the proportions for each possibleuser action.
In the adaptive condition users aretwice as likely to keep the time form than in thenon-adaptive condition (81.8% vs. 37.5%).
Thisdifference is statistically significant (p < .001).In the non-adaptive system condition users whochange time form are slightly more likely to switch(35.4%) than to adapt (29.1%).These results suggest that when the system doesnot adapt to the user, the user?s choice is unpre-dictable.
However, if the system adapts to theuser, the user is likely to keep the same form.
This146Figure 2: User Utterances with TIME APM and TIME ONLY.means that if the system can adapt to the user whenthe user chooses a form that is more likely to berecognized correctly, that provides positive rein-forcement, making the user more likely to use thatfelicitous form in the future.
Furthermore, if thesystem does adapt to the user then it may be pos-sible with high accuracy to predict the user?s formfor subsequent utterances, and to use this infor-mation to improve ASR accuracy for subsequentutterances (Stoyanchev and Stent, 2009b).5 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we analyzed user adaptation to a dia-log system?s choice of task-related concept forms.We showed that users do adapt to the system?sword choices, and that users are more likely toadapt when the system appears to adapt to them.This information may help us guide users intomore felicitous word choices, and/or modify thesystem to better recognize anticipated user wordchoices.
In future work we plan to analyze theeffect of ASR adaptation to user word choice onspeech recognition performance in spoken dialog.ReferencesH.
Branigan et al 2003.
Syntactic alignment betweencomputers and people: The role of belief about men-tal states.
In Proceedings of the 25th Annual Confer-ence of the Cognitive Science Society.S.
Brennan and H. Clark.
1996.
Conceptual pacts andlexical choice in conversation.
Journal of Experi-mental Psychology, 22(6):1482?1493.S.
Brennan.
1996.
Lexical entrainment in spontaneousdialog.
In Proceedings of ISSD, pages 41?44.J.
Gustafson et al 1997.
How do system questionsinfluence lexical choices in user answers?
In Pro-ceedings of Eurospeech.B.
Hockey et al 2003.
Targeted help for spoken dia-logue systems: intelligent feedback improves naiveusers performance.
In Proceedings of EACL.C.
Lockridge and S. Brennan.
2002.
Addressees?needs influence speakers?
early syntactic choices.Psychonomics Bulletin and Review, 9:550?557.M.
Pickering et al 2000.
Activation of syntactic prim-ing during language production.
Journal of Psy-cholinguistic Research, 29(2):205?216.A.
Raux et al 2005.
Let?s go public!
taking a spokendialog system to the real world.
In Proceedings ofEurospeech.E.
Reitter, J. Moore, and F. Keller.
2006.
Priming ofsyntactic rules in task-oriented dialogue and sponta-neous conversation.
In Proceedings of CogSci.T.
Sheeder and J. Balogh.
2003.
Say it like you meanit: Priming for structure in caller responses to a spo-ken dialog system.
International Journal of Speechand Technology, 6:103?111.S.
Stoyanchev and A. Stent.
2009a.
Lexical and syn-tactic priming and their impact in deployed spokendialog systems.
In Proceedings of NAACL.S.
Stoyanchev and A. Stent.
2009b.
Predicting concepttypes in user corrections in dialog.
In Proceedings ofthe EACL Workshop on the Semantic Representationof Spoken Language.S.
Tomko and R. Rosenfeld.
2006.
Shaping user inputin speech graffiti: a first pass.
In Proceedings ofCHI.147
