Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 55?62,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsSelecting an Ontology for Biomedical Text MiningHe Tan, Patrick LambrixDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceLinko?pings universitet, SwedenAbstractText mining for biomedicine requires a sig-nificant amount of domain knowledge.
Muchof this information is contained in biomedicalontologies.
Developers of text mining appli-cations often look for appropriate ontologiesthat can be integrated into their systems, ratherthan develop new ontologies from scratch.However, there is often a lack of documen-tation of the qualities of the ontologies.
Anumber of methodologies for evaluating on-tologies have been developed, but it is diffi-cult for users by using these methods to se-lect an ontology.
In this paper, we proposea framework for selecting the most appropri-ate ontology for a particular text mining appli-cation.
The framework comprises three com-ponents, each of which considers different as-pects of requirements of text mining applica-tions on ontologies.
We also present an ex-periment based on the framework choosing anontology for a gene normalization system.1 IntroductionWith the explosive growth of the volume of pub-lished biomedical research, it is challenging to keepup to date with the underlying knowledge avail-able in the form of free text.
The necessity of un-derstanding actions of individual biological compo-nents in system context rather than in isolation, ex-tends the coverage of literature far beyond the ca-pabilities of individual scientists.
Text mining is anemerging field that attempts to deal with these chal-lenges (Ananiadou and McHought, 2006; Cohenand Hersh, 2005; Spasic et al, 2005).
Text miningrequires a significant amount of domain knowledge.A large number of biomedical ontologies already ex-ist, and hold much of the information.
Some of theontologies have been designed for modeling domainknowledge, e.g.
FMA (Rosse and Mejino, 2003) andGO (Ashburner et al, 2000), others are developedfor potential applications, e.g.
MeSH (Lowe andBarnett, 1994) for indexing the medical literature.Whatever purposes the ontologies were built for,they are used to support text mining for tasks such asaccess to text, natural language processing, and in-formation integration.
Developers of text mining ap-plications often look for appropriate ontologies thatcan be integrated into their systems, rather than de-velop new ontologies from scratch.
The choice ofontology may, however, have a major impact on theperformance of the text mining system, includingthe quality of the results.Selecting an appropriate ontology relies on eval-uation and comparison of the available ontologies.Unfortunately, there is often a lack of documenta-tion of the qualities of the ontologies.
A number ofmethodologies for evaluating ontologies have beenproposed, mainly for evaluating one ontology at atime.
However, it is difficult for users by using thesemethods to make a decision on ontology selection.The various evaluation methods can be classifiedinto three main categories: 1) Those that evaluateontologies against a set of criteria defined by hu-man (e.g.
(Lozano and Go?mez, 2004) suggests 160criteria).
Most of the evaluation criteria are fromthe point of view of ontology building.
They arenot applicable for the selection of ontologies for aparticular application.
2) Those that include meth-ods to gather statistics about the nature of ontolo-gies (e.g.
(Gangemi et al, 2006) proposes 32 mea-sures for depth, width, fan-out, etc).
The problem55for this kind of methods is that it is not clear how touse these statistics for ontology selection among al-ternatives.
3) Those that are application-dependentevaluations.
For example, ontologies are evaluatedagainst a corpus in (Brewster et al, 2004) regardingthe domain of an IE system, and (Porzel and Malaka,2004) evaluates the quality of an ontology regard-ing a relation tagging task by using gold standarddata tagged by human.
While evaluating ontologiesfor the particular application is a relatively straight-forward method, evaluations may be sensitive to thetest dataset, and it may also be expensive to performevaluations for many ontologies.In this paper we propose a framework for select-ing the most appropriate ontology for a particulartext mining application.
The framework comprisesthree components for selection, and uses and ex-tends some of existing ontology evaluation and val-idation methods regarding the requirements of textmining in the area.
After a brief overview of the re-lated work, we introduce our framework in section3.
In section 4 we show how to use the frameworkin the setting of selecting an ontology for the genenormalization system described in (Tan, 2008).2 Related WorkNot much work has been done yet for ontology se-lection in the biomedical area.
Bioportal (Biopor-tal, 2.0) is an ontology library, currently mainlyfor browsing and navigating biomedical ontologies.The system also allows users of ontologies to submitinformation about their applications and commentson the content of ontologies, and stores mappingsbetween concepts of ontologies in the library.
Thisinformation may help users to select ontologies fromthe repository.Some work has been done for ontology selectionfor the Semantic Web.
In (Sabou et al, 2006), au-thors indicate the challenges for ontology evalua-tion posed by ontology selection for the SemanticWeb, such as the need for automation and good per-formance.
Two examples of ontology selection forthe Semantic Web are OntoSelect (Buitelaar et al,2004) and AKTiveRank (Alani and Brewster, 2005).Both are mainly based on the second category of on-tology evaluation methods.
OntoSelect is an ontol-ogy library that gives a functionality for selectingontologies for a given knowledge markup task.
Theselection relies on measuring the number of con-cepts and properties, and popularity of ontologies.The ontology selection algorithm in AKTiveRankcombines the measures of coverage of an ontologygiven search terms, and locations of the terms andsemantic similarity between the terms in the struc-ture of the ontology.OntoMetric is a hierarchical framework proposedin (Lozano and Go?mez, 2004) for general ontologyselection.
The tool offers a default hierarchy of cri-teria to evaluate ontologies from the point of view ofbuilding ontologies, and also allows users to adapt itfor their needs.
The selection is based on a weightedaddition of value of each criteria.3 The FrameworkIn principle biomedical ontologies provide formalrepresentations of domain knowledge for text min-ing in the area, but they are used for different pur-poses such as providing a model for storing, search-ing and querying a repository of text; providing do-main knowledge for natural language processing;providing a framework for information integration;or several of the above purposes.Based on a literature study and experience inbuilding systems, in this section we suggest crite-ria for selecting an ontology for a given biomedicaltext mining application.
The criteria are organizedin three components of a framework.Component 1In the first component the criteria for ontology selec-tion are given in two dimensions: content and sup-porting technologies.
The combined requirementsfrom the two dimensions lead to a list of candidateontologies.Content What are the requirements on the contentof ontology given an application?
We propose threecharacteristics to be considered,- Type What is the kind of the ontology requiredin the scenario?
Ontologies can be distin-guished into three basic types (Stenzhorn et al,2005): top ontologies, e.g.
BFO (Smith, 2004),contain only a restricted set of highly generalclasses, such as Function and Object, which arenot tied to any particular domain of interest;56top-domain ontologies, e.g.
BioTop (Stenzhornet al, 2005), contain all classes that are essen-tially needed to describe a certain domain, suchas Organism, Cell and Tissue in the case of bi-ology; and domain ontologies, e.g.
GO (Ash-burner et al, 2000), contain classes that com-prehensively describe a certain domain of in-terest.
For example, for natural language pro-cessing tasks such as entity recognition, a top-domain ontology may be sufficient.- Scope What are the main subjects that need tobe covered in a top-domain or domain ontologyrequired by the application?
For example, geneand disease are the domains that concern (Hris-tovski et al, 2005).- Representation What kind of information needsto be present in the ontology?
From a knowl-edge representation point of view, ontologiescan have the following components: concepts,which represent sets or classes of entities in adomain; relations between concepts, instances,which represent the actual entities; and axioms,which represent facts that are always true inthe topic area of the ontology (Lambrix et al,2007).
Which components should be presentin the ontology, depends to some extent on thepurpose of the ontology in the application.
Forexample, if an ontology is used as resource forNLP in the application, components conceptsand instances both may be necessary, but notrelations and axioms.Supporting technologies Three questions are con-sidered in this dimension:1.
What technologies are needed to support theuse of the ontology in the scenario?
Support-ing technologies may include ontology repre-sentation languages, ontology browsers, toolsfor ontology alignment, reasoning services, andontology-driven NLP tools.2.
Are tools available to provide the supportingtechnologies for the ontology?
For example,ontology alignment systems, e.g.
(Lambrix andTan, 2008) are available for biomedical ontolo-gies in OWL and OBO format.3.
What is the cost to develop new tools to supportthe use of an ontology if there is no existingtools?
Does the cost meet the expectations ofthe application?Component 2In this level the criteria for selection focus on de-tailed content of candidate ontologies which are con-sidered in two aspects: verification and evaluation.Verification Considering the maturity level of cur-rent biomedical ontologies, verification of taxo-nomic knowledge in candidate ontologies is valu-able for selection.
Reasoners, such as Racer, Pellet,and FaCT++, can check consistency, incompletenessand redundancy in ontologies.Evaluation First, we list a set of characteristics ofontologies that are of interest for text mining appli-cations,- Coverage Does an ontology cover the conceptsor/and relations concerned in the application?Do their definitions meet the expected scope?- Taxonomic Knowledge The two relations is-aand part-of have a central role in almost all on-tologies (Smith et al, 2005).
Do the locationsof essential concepts in the is-a and part-of hi-erarchies meet the expectation?- Instance The instantiation of concepts and thenumber of instances for each concept could ef-fect greatly the performance of many text min-ing tasks such as entity recognition.
Do theysatisfy the requirements?These characteristics may be evaluated,- against domain experts or references if they ex-ist.
For example, if an ontology involves inte-gration of literature with data from biologicaldatabases, schemas of databases can be the ref-erences.- among candidate ontologies.
There is no goldstandard in this situation and therefore the can-didate ontologies are compared directly to eachother.
For instance, aligning the ontologies canprovide information about their similarities anddifferences regarding their coverage.57Component 3The results from component 1 and 2 may not lead toa direct and confident decision.
Also, in many casesthere exist gold standards or benchmarks which wecan use to evaluate our application.
Therefore, thepurpose of component 3 is to evaluate the use of on-tologies in a real system.
This component could pro-vide a relatively straightforward method for evaluat-ing the quality of ontologies for use in the applica-tion.The field of biomedical text mining has ex-pended considerable effort in building evaluation re-sources.
A number of challenges, such as TREC Ge-nomics track, BioCreative, BioNLP/JNLPBA 2004and LLL05, have been organized in the community.They contribute to the creation of shared gold stan-dard datasets, prepared by domain experts and alsosuggest evaluation measures.
Comparison of thesystem individually bundled with candidate ontolo-gies can be performed by using these gold standarddatasets and measures.4 ExperimentIn this section we present an experiment in which weuse our framework to select a biomedical ontologyfor the gene normalization task.4.1 ScenarioThe purpose of gene normalization (GN) is to linkgenes and proteins mentioned in the literature totheir entries in structured databases of biologicaldata.
It has a substantial impact on tasks such as re-trieval of relevant documents, identification of inter-esting genes and proteins, and relationships betweenthem.
The task is challenging even for scientists,since there is no community wide agreement on howa particular gene and gene product should be named.Heavy use of short forms (acronyms or abbrevia-tions) in biomedical literature makes the problemworse.
In (Tan, 2008) we developed an ontology-centred system for gene normalization.
It relies oninformation about gene candidates, contexts of thesymbol and external knowledge sources.
Informa-tion about gene candidates is extracted from genedatabases.
Ontologies are used for semantic inter-pretation of contexts of gene symbols and identifi-cation of their relevance to gene candidate informa-ontologiesmappermatchingdisambiguated gene symbolsmappingsimilarityNERannotatedgene DBs+ candidatestextgene symbolscandidategeneretrievaldisambiguationrankinggenesymbolstextFigure 1: The components and data flows of the systemtion.
Normalization is based on matching contextsof the symbol to relevant information about genecandidates.Figure 1 illustrates the components and data flowsof the system.
The system receives a raw text as theinput, and yields database entries of genes appear-ing in the text: 1) Mapper receives the ontology andschemas of gene databases, and outputs a list of con-cepts from the ontology and their mappings to cat-egories of information stored in gene databases.
2)Named Entity Recognizer (NER) recognizes relevantbiomedical entities in text by linking them to theconcepts of the ontology which have been mappedto categories of gene information in mapper.
3)Gene candidate retrieval retrieves gene candidatesfor each gene symbol.
The categories of informationabout each gene candidate are collected.
4) Match-ing includes various algorithms that match contextsof a gene symbol to information about its gene can-didates according to the mappings obtained in map-per, and returns similarity values between them.
5)Normalization ranking ranks gene candidates basedon results of Matching for each gene symbol appear-ing in a text.4.2 Selecting the ontologyIn this application the components NER and Map-per count on the deployment of ontologies.
Theontology-driven NER component involves associat-ing text with the correct concepts in the ontology bymeans of associating mentions in the text with in-stances in the ontology.
The ontology provides theformal representation of domain knowledge for theNER.
The component Mapper involves mapping the58ontology to database schemas.
The ontology pro-vides the model to link information extracted fromliterature and data in biological databases.Component 1Following the criteria of the component 1, we definethe requirements on the ontology.Type Based on studies of categories of informationstored in gene databases such as EntrezGene (Ma-gloot et al, 2005), we decide that top-domain on-tologies are suitable for our application.Scope The ontology should represent domain knowl-edge about genes and gene products.
The ontol-ogy must contain concepts covering the categoriesof gene information, e.g.
location, functions, andbiological process.Representation In order to support the task of NER,the ontology must at least have concepts and in-stances.Supporting Technologies In the system the support-ing technologies include an ontology-driven NLPtool that support the task of NER, and ontologyalignment algorithms, that can be used to map theontology to categories of information in databases.We look for suitable ontologies by searchingOBO (OBO, 2009) and Bioportal, and reviewing lit-erature on biomedical ontologies.
There are a fewontologies covering genes and gene products such asGO, MeSH, the Unified Medical Language System(UMLS) knowledge sources (Lingberg et al, 1993)and ontologies from the GENIA project (Kim et al,2003).
Only two of these meet al the above require-ments, the UMLS knowledge sources and the GE-NIA ontologies.
The UMLS Semantic Network andGENIA entity and event ontologies can be seen astop-domain ontologies, of which the concepts are onthe level of the requirement.
The UMLS Metathe-saurus is primarily concerned with names used inthe domain.
It contains a huge number of biomedicalentities and events (called concepts in the Metathe-saurus) and their various names from more than 100biomedical vocabularies.
All of the concepts are as-signed to at least one semantic type in the SemanticNetwork.
The MetaMap program (Aronson, 2001)is available to map text to the concepts and seman-tic type.
The GENIA project collects a set of MED-LINE articles concerning transcription factors in hu-man blood cells.
Every biomedical entity and eventappearing in the articles are identified with a con-cept in the GENIA ontology.
Several NLP tools,e.g.
LingPipe (LingPipe, 3.7.0), support statisticalname entity recognition by using the GENIA corpusas training data.Component 2Verification We checked the consistency and redun-dancy in the UMLS Semantic Network and GE-NIA ontologies, respectively, by translating theminto OWL format and then sending to the reasoner,Racer.
Both of them are consistent and have mini-mal representations.Evaluation We perform two evaluations.
The firstevaluation is to investigate the coverage of conceptsof the two ontologies against categories of Entrez-Gene.
The coverage determines the extent of infor-mation that can be used for gene normalization.
Inthe second one we compare biomedical entities andevents belonging to concepts of the two ontologies,since they influence the performance of NER.- Evaluation 1 Manually, we identify a list of cate-gories of EntrezGene that are used for gene normal-ization.
Evaluation is performed by aligning con-cepts of the two ontologies to the categories.
A firstobservation is that UMLS covers more topics thanGENIA and therefore may give better results forNER.
The topics of the GENIA corpus can be repre-sented by a query using human, blood cell, transcrip-tion factor.
To be able to compare the coverage ofUMLS and GENIA on an overlapping piece of a do-main we align the two ontologies based on the GE-NIA topics.
The evaluation is based on an instance-based strategy proposed in (Tan et al, 2006).
The al-gorithm consists of the following steps: 1) Instancecollection: We retrieve a list of human genes fromthe database using human, blood cell, and transcrip-tion factor.
All entities appearing in the categories ofinformation are collected as instances.
2) Classifica-tion: For each ontology, each instance is classifiedto concepts by a NLP tool.
The MetaMap programis used for the UMLS Semantic Network, and theLingPipe entity recognition program is used for theGENIA ontology.
An instance can be classified tomore than one concept.
3) Calculation: The simi-larity between a concept from an ontology (A) anda category from the EntrezGene (Bj) is determinedby the extent to which the instances of the category59EntrezGene UMLS (value) GENIA (value)Name/Syn.
Gene or Genome (0,66) protein molecule (0,83)Chromosome Cell Component (1.0) protein molecule (1.0)Map Location Nucleotide Sequence (1.0) DNA domain or region (0,5)protein molecule (0,4)Protein Gene or Genome (0,42) protein molecule (0,60)Amino Acid, Peptide,or Protein (0,25)Pathway Molecular Function (0,29) other name (0,76)Cell Function (0,24)GOA function Molecular Function (0,75) other name (0,85)GOA component Cell Component (0,96) cell component (0,40)other name ( 0,15)GOA process Cell Function (0,49) other name (0,78)Molecular Function (0,16)Table 1: Comparison: EntrezGene, UMLS and GENIAsupport the concept.
The similarity value is calcu-lated as: sim(A,Bj) =Pni=1 S(ai,Bj)Pmk=1Pni=1 S(ai,Bk), where aiare the instances belonging to A, n is the number ofinstances belonging to A, m is the number of cate-gories, and S is a function calculating the degree towhich an instance of an ontology concept supports acategory from EntrezGene.
S is defined as:S(ai, Bj) =8<:0 if ai does not associate with Bj1p otherwise; p is the number of categories Bkthat ai associates withTable 1 shows the alignment results.
The left col-umn gives the categories of gene information we usefor normalization.
If the similarity value between acategory and the UMLS semantic type or GENIAconcept is higher than 0.6, they are considered ascorresponding to the category.
If no similarity valueis higher than 0.6, we list the two semantic typesor concepts with the highest values.
Three of eightalignments fall into this situation for UMLS seman-tic types, and two for GENIA concepts.
We alsonote that the GENIA concept other name appears 4times, but the meaning of this concept is not well-defined.
Most other categories are aligned to pro-tein molecule, although the categories are very dif-ferent.
In this evaluation, it is more likely that theUMLS semantic network is more appropriate thanthe GENIA ontology for our system.- Evaluation 2 35,515 entities of interest in the bi-ological domain are identified in the GENIA entitycorpus, 7,089 entities of which have been found inthe UMLS Metathesaurus.
Since we could not ob-tain all the UMLS Metathesaurus concepts for eachsemantic type, we decided to compare the UMLSsemantic types and GENIA concepts that appearin the first evaluation, based on these 7,089 sharedinstances.
The comparison is based on the sameinstance-based alignment strategy used in the firstevaluation.
Tables 2 and 3 show the alignment re-sults.
In table 2 the value illustrates the extentto which instances of GENIA concepts support theUMLS semantic types.
We list the three conceptswith the highest values in the table, if they ex-ist.
The concepts in italics are event concepts, theothers are entities.
All the UMLS semantic typescover instances from more than one GENIA con-cept belonging to a subtree.
For example, Gene orGenome could be aligned to the three GENIA con-cepts DNA family or group, DNA domain or regionand RNA molecule, which are leaves of the subtreeNucleotide acid compound.
The granularity of thepart of the GENIA ontology concerning the appli-cation is finer than the corresponding part of theUMLS semantic network.
Table 3 shows the dis-tribution of the instances of GENIA concepts whenthey support UMLS semantic types.
Instances ofDNA domain or region and cell component mainlysupport Gene or Genome and Cell Component, re-spectively, which is consistent with our observationin table 1.
Another observation from this table isthat protein molecule covers both Gene or Genomeand Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein.
The result alsoshows that other name is not well defined.
However,this evaluation does not give a conclusive answer towhich ontology supports the task of NER better.Component 3Since component 1 and 2 could not lead to a di-rect and confident decision, we evaluate the use ofthe two ontologies in our system We use a train-ing dataset from the BioCreative II gene normal-ization task (Morgan et al, 2008) in the evaluation.The BioCreative datasets contain Medline abstractsalong with the EntrezGene identifiers correspondingto the human genes and direct gene products ap-pearing in the abstracts.
The training dataset con-tain 281 Medline abstracts and 640 human genes.The MetaMap program is the NLP tool that uses theUMLS Semantic Network, and the LingPipe entityrecognition program employs GENIA ontology.Table 4 illustrates the quality of normalization inthe two systems.
The quality is measured in terms ofprecision, recall and f-measure.
Recall (Re.)
is de-fined as the number of correctly disambiguated genesymbols divided by the number of the gene sym-bols to be disambiguated.
Precision is measured in60GENIA UMLS valueDNA family or group Gene or Genome 0.63DNA domain or region Gene or Genome 0.54RNA molecule Gene or Genome 0.44DNA N/A Nucleotide Sequence 0.23DNA substructure Nucleotide Sequence 0.23DNA domain or region Nucleotide Sequence 0.17cell component Cell Component 0.76RNA N/A Cell Component 0.50DNA molecule Cell Component 0.46protein family or group Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein 0.37protein subunit Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein 0.33amino acid monomer Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein 0.33protein domain or region Amino Acid Sequence 0.42Cellular physiological process Cell Function 0.26Cell communication Cell Function 0.24Cell differentiation Cell Function 0.19Protein amino acid deacetylation Molecular Function 1.0Protein amino acid dephosphorylation Molecular Function 0.80Protein ubiquitination Molecular Function 0.50Table 2: Comparison: UMLS and GENIA (1)GENIA UMLS valueprotein molecule Gene or Genome 0.30protein molecule Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein 0.29protein molecule Biologically Active Substance 0.10DNA domain or region Gene or Genome 0.54DNA domain or region Biologically Active Substance 0.07DNA domain or region Nucleotide Sequence 0.06cell component Cell Component 0.76cell component Biomedical or Dental Material 0.03cell component Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein 0.02other name Disease or Syndrome 0.15other name Cell Function 0.09other name Neoplastic Process 0.08Table 3: Comparison: UMLS and GENIA (2)two ways.
Pre.-1 is defined as the number of genesymbols correctly and uniquely identified to the realgene, divided by the total number of genes proposedin the result regarding the whole data set.
Pre.-2 iscomputed as the average of the precision of disam-biguation for each gene symbol.
F-measure is theevenly weighted harmonic mean of precision and re-call.
Pre.-1 and Pre.-2 are used in the computationof Fm.-1 and Fm.-2, respectively.
For both datasetsthe quality of normalization from the system bun-dled with the UMLS is better than the one with theGENIA ontology.ResultOverall, the UMLS knowledge source can be con-sidered as the ontology that is most appropriate forour gene normalization system.
The ontology cov-ers the subject, genes and gene products, well.
Themeaning of the concepts is defined well enough forthe use in the application.
The granularity of thepart of the ontology meets the need of the task.
Thesystem bundled with the UMLS and its supportingtechnologies produced better results in a gold stan-dard dataset than the other one.KB Dataset Pre.-1 Pre.-2 Re.
Fm.-1 Fm.-2GENIA dataset 1 0.45 0.65 0.78 0.57 0.71dataset 2 0.50 0.63 0.72 0.59 0.67UMLS dataset 1 0.48 0.69 0.82 0.61 0.75dataset 2 0.52 0.67 0.78 0.62 0.72Table 4: Quality of normalizationAlthough we have not run additional expirementsto confirm that the we have indeed made the right se-lection for our gene normalization system, the testsdo corrobarate our results.
The chosen ontologyleads to a better result for both datasets that we used.Therefore, each dataset can be seen as a confirma-tion of the framework where we only used the otherdataset.5 ConclusionsIn this paper we proposed a framework for select-ing an appropriate ontology for a particular biomed-ical text mining application.
The framework dealswith ontology selection in three components, eachof which considers different aspects of requirementsof text mining applications on ontologies.
Then wepresent an experiment in which we select a biomedi-cal ontology for a gene normalization system, usingthe framework.
Within the framework, evaluationresults lead us to a relatively concrete choice of anontology for our system.In the future we want to evaluate our frameworkwith more applications and ontologies.
Further, cur-rently there is no service to support ontology selec-tion for biomedical text mining.
Therefore, an im-portant track for future work is to build or extend anexisting portal with information about the ontologiesand their use in text mining applications that is struc-tured according to our framework.
The informationin such a portal will constitute valuable data and ex-periences regarding ontology selection that will beuseful for future applications.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Bo Servenius for comments on the project,Qiang Liu for generating part of the data and DavidByers for proof-reading the paper.
We also acknowl-edge the financial support of the Center for Indus-trial Information Technology.61ReferencesAlani H, Brewster C. (2005) Ontology Ranking based onthe Analysis of Concept Structures.
Proceedings of the3th International Conference on Knowledge Capture,51-58.Alias-i.
2008.
LingPipe 3.7.0. http://alias-i.com/lingpipeAnaniadou S, McNaught J.
(editors) (2006) Text Miningfor Biology and Biomedicine.
Artech House.Aronson AR.
(2001) Effective mapping of biomedicaltext to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMap pro-gram.
Proceedings of the AMIA Symposium, 17-21.Ashburner M, Ball CA, Blake JA, Botstein D, Butler H,Cherry JM, Davis AP, Dolinski K, Dwight SS, EppigJT, Harris MA, Hill DP, Issel-Tarver L, Kasarskis A,Lewis S, Matese JC, Richardson JE, Ringwald M, Ru-bin GM, Sherlock G. (2000) Gene ontology: tool forthe unification of biology.
The Gene Ontology Consor-tium.
Nature Genetics, 25(1):25-9.Bioportal.
http://bioportal.bioontology.org/Brewster C, Alani H, Dasmahapatra S, Wilks Y.
(2004)Data Driven Ontology Evaluation.
International Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation.Buitelaar P, Eigner T, Declerck T. (2004) OntoSelect: ADynamic Ontology Library with Support for OntologySelection.
Proceedings of the Demo Session at the In-ternational Semantic Web Conference.Cohen AM, Hersh WR.
(2005) A survey of current workin biomedical text mining.
Briefings in Bioinformatics,6:57-71.Gangemi A, Catenacci C, Ciaramita M, Lehmann J.
(2006) Modelling Ontology Evaluation and Valida-tion.
Proceedings of the 2006 European Semantic WebConference.Hristovski D, Peterlin B, Mitchell JA, Humphrey SM.
(2005) Using literature-based discovery to identify dis-ease candidate genes.
International Journal of MedicalInformatics, 74(2-4):289-298.Kim J-D, Tomoko O, Yuka T, Tsujii J.
(2003).
GE-NIA corpus - a semantically annotated corpus for bio-textmining.
Bioinformatics, 19(suppl.
1):180-182.Lambrix P, Tan H, Jakoniene V, Stro?mba?ck L. (2007) Bi-ological Ontologies.
Chapter 4 in Baker, Cheung (eds),Semantic Web: Revolutionizing Knowledge Discoveryin the Life Sciences, 85-99, Springer.Lambrix P, Tan H. (2008) Ontology alignment and merg-ing.
Chapter 6 in Burger, Davidson, Baldock, (eds),Anatomy Ontologies for Bioinformatics: Principlesand Practice, 133-150, Springer.Lindberg DA, Humphreys BL, McCray AT.
(1993) TheUnified Medical Language System.
Methods of Infor-mation in Medicine, 32:281 -91.Lowe HJ, Barnett GO.
(1994) Understanding and usingthe medical subject headings (MeSH) vocabulary toperform literature searches.
Journal of the AmericanMedical Association, 271(14):1103-1108.Lozano-Tello A, Go?mez-Pe?rez A.
(2004) ONTOMET-RIC: A Method to Choose the Appropriate Ontology.Journal of Database Management.
Special Issue onOntological Analysis, Evaluation, and Engineering ofBusiness Systems Analysis Methods, 15(2):1-18.Maglott D, Ostell J, Pruitt KD, Tatusova T. (2005) En-trez Gene: gene-centered information at NCBI.
Nu-cleic Acids Research.
33:D54-8.Morgan AA, Lu Z, Wang X, Cohen AM, Fluck J, RuchP, Divoli A, Fundel K, Leaman R, Hakenberg J, SunC, Liu HH, Torres R, Krauthammer M, Lau WW, LiuH, Hsu CN, Schuemie M, Cohen KB, Hirschman L.(2008) Overview of BioCreative II gene normaliza-tion.
Genome Biology, 9(Suppl 2):S3.OBO.
http://obofoundry.org/Porzel R, Malaka R. (2004) A task-based approach forontology evaluation.
ECAI 2004 Workshop OntologyLearning and Population .Rosse C, Mejino JL Jr. (2003) A reference ontol-ogy for biomedical informatics: the foundationalmodel of anatomy.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,36(6):478-500.Sabou M, Lopez V, Motta E, Uren V. (2006) OntologySelection: Ontology Evaluation on the Real SemanticWeb.
Proceedings of the 4th International EON Work-shop, Evaluation of Ontologies for the Web.Smith B.
(2004) Beyond concepts: ontology as realityrepresentation.
Proceedings of Formal Ontology andInformation Systems, 73-78.Smith B, Ceusters W, Klagges B, Ko?hler J, Kumar A,Lomax J, Mungall C, Neuhaus F, Rector AL, RosseC.
(2005) Relations in biomedical ontologies.
GenomeBiology, 6(5):R46.Spasic I, Ananiadou S, McNaught J, Kumar A.
(2005)Text mining and ontologies in biomedicine: mak-ing sense of raw text.
Briefings in Bioinformatics,6(3):239-251.Stenzhorn H, Schulz S, Bei?wanger E. (2007) Towardsa Top-Domain Ontology for Linking Biomedical On-tologies Proceedings of the 12th World Congress onHealth (Medical) Informatics.Tan H. (2008) Knowledge-based Gene Symbol Disam-biguation.
CIKM: Proceedings of the 2nd interna-tional workshop on Data and text mining in bioinfor-matics, 73-76.Tan H, Jakoniene V, Lambrix P, Aberg J, ShahmehriN.
(2006) Alignment of Biomedical Ontologies usingLife Science Literature.
Proceedings of the Interna-tional Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Life Sci-ence Literature, 1-17.62
