Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2009: the 10th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group in Discourse and Dialogue, page 216,Queen Mary University of London, September 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsInvited TalkArtificial Companions as Dialogue AgentsYorick WilksDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of SheffieldSheffield S1 4DP, UKwww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/?yorickyorick@dcs.sheffield.ac.ukCOMPANIONS is an EU project that aims to change the way we think about the relationshipsof people to computers and the Internet by developing a virtual conversational ?Companion?.
Thisis intended as an agent or ?presence?
that stays with the user for long periods of time, developinga relationship and ?knowing?
its owners preferences and wishes.
The Companion communicateswith the user primarily through speech.
This paper describes the functionality and system modulesof the Senior Companion, one of two initial prototypes built in the first two years of the project.The Senior Companion provides a multimodal interface for eliciting and retrieving personal in-formation from the elderly user through a conversation about their photographs.
The Companionwill, through conversation, elicit their life memories, often prompted by discussion of their pho-tographs; the aim is that the Companion should come to know a great deal about its user, theirtastes, likes, dislikes, emotional reactions etc, through long periods of conversation.
It is a furtherassumption that most life information will be stored on the internet (as in the Memories for Lifeproject: http://www.memoriesforlife.org/) and the SC is linked directly to photo in-ventories in Facebook, to gain initial information about people and relationships, as well as toWikipedia to enable it to respond about places mentioned in conversations about images.
Theoverall aim of the SC, not yet achieved, is to produce a coherent life narrative for its user fromthese materials, although its short term goals are to assist, amuse, entertain and gain the trust ofthe user.
The Senior Companion uses Information Extraction to get content from the speech input,rather than conventional parsing, and retains utterance content, extracted internet information andontologies all in RDF formalism over which it does primitive reasoning about people.
It has adialogue manager virtual machine intended to capture mixed initiative, between Companion anduser, and which can be a basis for later replacement by learned components.216
