Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 74?81,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPAnnotation of Sentence Structure;Capturing the Relationship among Clauses in Czech SentencesMarke?ta Lopatkova?
and Natalia Klyueva and Petr HomolaCharles University in Prague, Institute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsMalostranske?
na?m.
25, 118 00 Prague 1, Czech Republic{lopatkova,kljueva,homola}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThe goal of the presented project is to as-sign a structure of clauses to Czech sen-tences from the Prague Dependency Tree-bank (PDT) as a new layer of syntactic an-notation, a layer of clause structure.
Theannotation is based on the concept of seg-ments, linguistically motivated and easilyautomatically detectable units.
The taskof the annotators is to identify relationsamong segments, especially relations ofsuper/subordination, coordination, apposi-tion and parenthesis.
Then they identifyindividual clauses forming complex sen-tences.In the pilot phase of the annotation, 2,699sentences from PDT were annotated withrespect to their sentence structure.1 MotivationSyntactic analysis of natural languages is thefundamental requirement of many applied tasks.Parsers providing automatic syntactic analysis arequite reliable for relatively short and simple sen-tences.
However, their reliability is significantlylower for long and complex sentences, especiallyfor languages with free word order; see, e.g., Ze-man (2004) for results for Czech.The identification of the overall structure ofa sentence prior to its full syntactic analysis isa natural step capable to reduce the complex-ity of full analysis.
Such methods brought goodresults for typologically different languages, seee.g.
Jones (1994) for English or Ohno et al (2006)for Japanese.The goal of the presented project is to annotatea structure of clauses to Czech sentences from thePrague Dependency Treebank.
The main idea is toreuse the already existing language resource and toenrich it with a new layer of annotation, a layer ofclause structure.We exploit a concept of segments, easily auto-matically detectable and linguistically motivatedunits, as they were defined by Lopatkova?
andHolan (2009).1 The annotation captures relation-ship among segments, especially subordination,coordination, apposition and parenthesis.
Basedon segment annotation, the annotators identifyclauses forming (complex) sentences: they groupthe segments constituting individual clauses ofcomplex sentences.Contrary to such well known approaches as e.g.chunking, see Abney (1991) or cascaded parsing,see Abney (1995) or Ciravegna and Lavelli (1999),which group individual tokens into more complexstructures as nominal or prepositional phrases, i.e.,in a bottom-up direction, the proposed approachaims at determining a hierarchy of sentence partsin a ?top-down?
way.
Such an approach is quitenovel not only for Czech, it has not been reportedfor other Slavic languages.Prague Dependency Treebank2 (PDT), see Hajic?et al (2006) is a large and elaborated corpuswith rich syntactic annotation of Czech newspapertexts.
As the dependency-based framework hasbeen adopted for PDT, the treebank contains ex-plicit information on mutual relations among in-dividual tokens (words and punctuation marks).However, relations among more complex units,esp.
clauses, are not explicitly indicated, see Fig-ure 1.Syntactic information stored in PDT can beused (at least to some extent) for the identificationof individual clauses as well.
Let us refer to theexperiments described in the papers by Lopatkova?and Holan (2009) and Kru?za and Kubon?
(2009).
Inboth papers, the authors designed well-developedprocedures for identifying segments and their mu-1We adopt the basic idea of segments introduced and usedby Kubon?
(2001) and Kubon?
et al (2007).
We slightly modifyit for the purposes of the annotation task.2http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.0/74Figure 1: Analytic tree of the sentence Poc?a?tec?n?
?nejistota, jak obstoj?
?, zmizela.
?Initial uncertainty,how it-will-do, vanished.
?tual relationship from the analytical layer of PDT(i.e., layer of surface syntax).
However, they ei-ther do not identify individual clauses in the com-plex sentence at all, or their procedural definitionof clause does not exactly model what a humanwould consider as a clause.The previous experiments brought clear speci-fication of segmentation charts describing the re-lation among individual segments.
The resultsshowed that for further research it is necessary towork with a large set of precisely annotated data.It has turned out that such data cannot be obtainedwithout extensive (semi)manual annotation of alarge set of sentences, see Lopatkova?
and Holan(2009) and Kru?za and Kubon?
(2009).In this article, we present a project of man-ual annotation of sentence structure for complexCzech sentences.
In Section 2, we introduce thebasic concepts, esp.
boundaries, segments andsegmentation charts.
Then we focus on the anno-tation of basic linguistic phenomena (Section 3).Section 4 brings specification of a data format andan editor used for the annotation.
Lastly, basicstatistics of the annotated data are presented (Sec-tion 5).2 Boundaries, Segments andSegmentation ChartsThe aim of the annotation is to explicitly describerelations among clauses of (complex) Czech sen-tences.
We focus on the annotation of (part of)Czech sentences from PDT.
We take advantageof morphological analysis (m-layer) and partiallyalso surface syntactic analysis (a-layer) stored inPDT.All tokens from PDT are disjunctively dividedinto two groups ?
ordinary words and segmentboundaries.
Segment boundaries are tokens andtheir sequences that divide a sentence into indi-vidual units referred to as segments.
As segmentboundaries, the following tokens are considered:?
punctuation marks: comma, colon, semi-colon, question mark, exclamation mark,dash (all types), opening and closing bracket(all kinds), and quotation mark (all types);?
coordinating conjunctions: tokens morpho-logical tag of which starts with the pair J?
(e.g., a ?and?, ale ?but?, nebo ?or?, nebot?
?for?,ani ?nor?
), see Hajic?
(2004).After the identification of boundaries, the in-put sentence is partitioned into individual seg-ments ?
a segment is understood as a maximalnon-empty sequence of tokens that does not con-tain any boundary.This concept of the linear segment serves as agood basis for the identification of clauses, basiclinguistically motivated syntactic units.
We willsee that a single clause consists of one or moresegments; one or more clauses then create(s) acomplex sentence (see Section 3).The definition of segments adopted in thisproject is based on very strict rules for punctuationin Czech.
Generally, beginning and end of eachclause must be indicated by a boundary, i.e., sen-tence boundary (usually fullstop, question mark orexclamation mark), punctuation (mostly comma)or conjunction.
This holds for embedded clausesas well.
In particular, there are only very few ex-ceptions to a general rule saying that there must besome kind of a boundary between two finite verbforms of meaningful verbs.Segmentation Charts and ClausesRelations between clauses, esp.
super- or sub-ordination, coordination, apposition or parenthe-sis, are described by so called segmentation charts(one or more, if we allow for ambiguous annota-tion) ?
segmentation chart captures the levels ofembedding for individual segments, as describedbelow.75The principal idea of the segmentation chart isquite clear ?
it can be described by the follow-ing basic instructions.
(In examples, segments aremarked by square brackets [ and ]k, where k is alevel of embedding.
In addition, individual clausesare marked by brackets { and }j , where j is an in-dex of a particular clause.
)Main clauses.
Segments forming all mainclauses3 of a complex sentence belong to the basiclevel (level of embedding 0), as in the followingsentence.
{[O studium byl velky?
za?jem]0}1, {[v pr?ij??mac?
?chpohovorech bylo vybra?no 50 uchazec?u?]0}2.
?Therewas a lot of interest in studying, 50 applicantswere selected in admission interviews.
?Dependent clauses.
Segments forming clausesthat depend on clauses at the k-th level obtain levelof embedding k + 1 (i.e., the level of embeddingfor subordinated segments is higher than the levelof segments forming their governing clause).
{[Potom zjist?
?te]0}1, {[ z?e va?m nikdo neda?
vstup-n??
v??zum]1}2.
?Then you realize that nobody givesyou entrance visa.
?Coordination and apposition.
Segments formingcoordinated sentence members and coordinatedclauses occupy the same level.
The same holdsfor apposition.
{[Hra na?m jde]0}1 a {[forma stoupa?]0}1.
?We?regetting on well in game and our form improves.?Parenthesis.
Segments forming parenthesis(e.g., sequence of wordforms within brackets) ob-tain the level of embedding k + 1 if the level oftheir neighboring segments is k .
{[Na?vrh mluv??
o dvou letech u muz?u?
]0 ( {[zvys?ujeve?k z 60 na 62]1}1 ) a [o c?tyr?ech letech u z?en]0}2.?The proposal mentions two years for men (itraises the age from 60 to 62) and four years forwomen.
?Although this basic idea of segmentation chartsseems simple, it appears that ?
working with ?realdata?
from newspaper corpus ?
detailed annota-tion guidelines are necessary for good and con-sistent annotation of specific linguistic phenomenaand especially for their combination.
We focus onsome of them in the following section.3As a main clauses, such clauses are considered that aresyntactically / formally independent, see also Section 3.3 Annotation of Complex SentencesSegments can be divided into two main groups,mutually independent and mutually related seg-ments.Mutually independent segments.
Mutuallyindependent segments are, e.g., segments formingtwo dependent clauses, each of them modifying(different) part of the main clause, as segmentsdo ktere?
se zamiloval ?with whom he felt in love?and ktery?
zazvonil ?that rang?
in the followingsentence.
{[Marie]0, {[do ktere?
se zamiloval]1}1, {[kdyz?ji potkal]2}2, [zvedla telefon]0}3, {[ktery?zazvonil]1}4.
?Mary, with whom he felt inlove when he met her, answered the phone thatrang.
?Such segments can have the same level of em-bedding (as the above mentioned segments) orthey can belong to clauses with different levels ofembedding (as segments kdyz?
ji potkal ?when hemet her?
and ktery?
zazvonil ?that rang?
).Mutually related segments.
Mutually relatedsegments either belong to different levels of em-bedding ?
they are super- or subordinated, we fo-cus on this group in the following Section 3.1, orthey have the same level of embedding ?
this typeis described in Section 3.2.Let us stress here that the segment annotationis based on formally expressed structures ratherthan on their semantic interpretation.
For exam-ple, we do not interpret text enclosed in brackets?
whether it is semantically apposition, sentencemember or independent sentence part, see also thediscussion in Kubon?
et al (2007).
We annotatesuch text as parenthetical segment(s) on a lowerlevel compared to the neighboring segments.The annotators have been instructed to disam-biguate annotated sentences ?
if more readings ofa particular sentence are possible, they should re-spect the reading rendered in PDT.3.1 Subordination and SuperordinationThe super- or subordinated mutually related seg-ments capture primarily relations between gov-erning and dependent clauses.Identification of subordinated status of a par-ticular segment is based on morphological prop-erties of tokens forming this segment, i.e., on thepresence of a token with ?subordinating function?.76?Subordinating tokens?
are especially of the fol-lowing types:?
subordinating conjunctions (e.g., aby ?in or-der that?, dokud ?till?, kdyby ?if?, protoz?e ?be-cause?, pr?estoz?e ?although?, z?e ?that?);?
relative/interrogative pronouns and sometypes of numerals (e.g., kdo ?who?, co ?what?,jaky?
?which?, kolik ?how many?);?
pronominal adverbs (e.g., kde ?where?, kdy?when?, jak ?how?, proc?
?why?
).In Czech, a subordinating token is usually at thebeginning of the segment, as in the following sen-tence (marked pronoun ktery?
?who?
serves as sub-ordinating token here).
{[Klejch]0 , {[ktery?
dal deve?t ze dvana?cti ligovy?chgo?lu?
Zl?
?na]1}1 , [ma?
vydatne?
pomocn??ky]0}2.
?Kle-jch who scored nine goals out of twelve for Zl?
?nhas good helpers.
?A particular subordinated segment can precedeor follow its superordinated segment or it can beplaced between two superordinated segments (incase of a governing clause with embedded depen-dent clause, as in the previous example).In addition to governing and dependent clauses,there are also other constructions that should evi-dently be captured as subordinated segments, es-pecially:?
Segments representing direct speech:,,{[ Kupr??
?kladu za?vod Ejpovice projevil za?jemdokonce o 150 pracovn??ku?]1}1,?
{[ uvedlLadislav Vltavsky?]0}2.
?
?For exampleEjpovice company showed interest in 150workers,?
said Ladislav Vltavsky?.??
Some types of parenthesis, esp.
thosemarked by brackets:{[Guido Reni]0 ( {[1575 az?
1642]1}1 [bylvynikaj??c??
figuralista]0}2.
?Guido Reni (1575to 1642) was an outstanding figural painter.
?In such cases, parenthetical expressions arecaptured as separate clauses even if they con-sist of fragmental expression.3.2 Segments on the Same Level andIdentification of ClausesWe can identify three main groups of structureswhere segments are mutually related and theyshare the same level of embedding:?
segments forming a clause with embeddeddependent clause, as the attributive depen-dent clause in the following example.
{[V pr???pade?
]0, {[z?e se nedovola?te]1}1,[vytoc?te c??
?slo ve vec?ern?
?ch hodina?chznovu]0}2.
?In case that you will not succeed,redial the number again in the evening.??
coordinated segments (see the correspondingsection below);?
others, esp.
segments in apposition and sometypes of parenthesis (see the correspondingsection below).In particular, segments on the same level ?
un-like the super/subordinated ones ?
can form a sin-gle clause.
For the annotators, the important taskis to identify individual clauses.
They group thosesegments that constitute individual clauses of acomplex sentence and thus mark them as a sin-gle syntactic unit of a higher level, level of clausestructures.
(Let us recall that clauses are markedhere by brackets { and }j where j is an index of aparticular clause).Coordination of sentence members andcoordination of clausesThe relation of coordination may occur betweentwo (or more) sentence members or between two(or more) clauses, be they main clauses or depen-dent ones.
The syntactic position of coordinatedunits is ?multiplied?, that is, they share the samesyntactic relations to other sentence members.
Theannotators have to identify segments containingcoordinated sentence members and put them to-gether into a single clause; coordinated clauses aremarked as separate clauses sharing the same levelof embedding,4 as in the following sentence.{[C?esky?
prezident apeloval na C?echy]0 a [naNe?mce]0}1, {[aby odpove?dne?
zacha?zeli s min-ulost??
]1}2 a {[aby posouvali vpr?ed dialog]1 a[spolupra?ci.
]1}3 ?Czech president appealed toCzechs and Germans that they should treat theirhistory responsibly and improve their mutual di-alogue and cooperation.?
This complex sentenceconsists of five segments (marked by [ and ]),which form three clauses (marked by { and }),namely one main clause (on the zero level) andtwo coordinated dependent clauses (first embed-ded level), see also Figure 3.4In PDT, coordination of sentence members and coordina-tion of clauses are not distinguished (at the analytical layer).77Segmentation is purely linear (on segment fol-lows another); after the identification of segments,they are grouped into the clauses.
As we haveseen, a single clause consists (prototypically) ofone or more segments.
This is fully true for se-mantically and syntactically complete sentences,i.e.
sentences without ellipses of different kinds.Let us mention one construction where clausesidentified by the annotators (i.e., clauses based onsegments) do not conform with the linguistic intu-ition, namely the case of coordinated clauses shar-ing one (or more) sentence member(s) or a syntac-tic particle.
We interpret such cases as cases of el-lipses, i.e., a shared sentence member or particle issupposed to belong only to one of the clauses andto be elided in the second clause.
Thus a sharedsentence member or particle is annotated only as apart of one clause.
{[Neopravuje se]0}1 a {[neinvestuje]0}2, {[pen??zestac???
jen na be?z?ny?
provoz]0}1.
?They do not ren-ovate nor invest, there is enough money only forroutine operation.?
(The underlined reflexive par-ticle belongs to both verbs opravovat ?to reno-vate?
and investovat ?to invest?
(reflexive passiveforms of the verbs); in the segmentation chart, it ismarked as a part of the first clause Neopravuje seand elided in the second clause neinvestuje.
)On the other hand, a basic rule was adopted say-ing that a single finite verb form indicates a singleclause, i.e., verb constitutes (a core of) a sentence5(providing that other formal labels as, e.g., brack-ets do not indicate more levels).
This rule impliesthat if the shared sentence member is a predicate,then the particular segments are joined togetherinto a single clause, as in the following example.
{[Petr pr?is?el vc?era]0 a [babic?ka dneska]0}1.
?Petrcame yesterday and my grandma today.
?Other constructionsApposition is a construction where the same?idea?
is rendered in different ways (the latter be-ing an explanatory equivalent of the former), bothhaving the same syntactic relation to other sen-tence members (e.g., a name and a function of par-ticular person, as in the following sentence).
{[Ozna?mil to Va?clav Havel]0, [president C?eske?republiky]0}1.
?It was announced by Va?clavHavel, president of the Czech Republic.
?Following PDT, apposition is treated in thesame way as coordination as the members of an5The account for this decision lies in the verb-centriccharacter of dependency syntax traditionally used for Czech.apposition are considered to share (multiple) syn-tactic position in a sentence (like in the case ofcoordination).Contrary to PDT, parenthesis without ex-plicit/unambiguous formal mark, as e.g.
brackets,is annotated as segment(s) on the same level asits/their neighboring segments.
{[Pr?ed smrt??
]0, {[nezna?mo proc?
]0}1, [si koupiltramvajenku]0}2.
?Before dying, nobody knowswhy, he bought a tram pass.
?Again, parenthetical expressions are captured asseparate clauses even if they consist of fragmentalexpression.Semi-direct speech, i.e., direct speech withoutquotation marks (or other formal label(s)) is anno-tated as segment(s) on the same level as the seg-ment containing a governing verb.
The reason isquite evident ?
there is no formally expressed indi-cation of subordination in the segment(s) creatinga semi-direct speech.
{[Pr?ijde pozde?ji]0}1, {[ohla?sil doma Pavel]0}2.
?Iwill be late, said Pavel.
?4 Data Format and Editor for SegmentAnnotation4.1 PML Data FormatThe Prague Markup Language6 (PML), see Pa-jas and S?te?pa?nek (2006) is an XML-based domainlanguage which has been developed and is used asprimary data format for PDT (version 2.0).The PDT 2.0 data consist of one non-annotatedword layer (w-layer) and three layers of annota-tion: morphological (m-layer), analytical (a-layer)and tectogrammatical (t-layer).
In PML, individ-ual layers of annotation can be stacked one overanother in a stand-off fashion and linked togetheras well as with other data resources in a consistentway.We use two layers in our annotation editor,namely the m-layer and the a-layer.
The m-layerprovides the word form, lemma and tag for everytoken.
The a-layer represents syntactic relationsbetween tokens, resulting in an analytical tree.
Forthe segment annotation, only information on ana-lytical functions of tokens is used ?
it helps the an-notators in their decisions on the appropriate levelof embedding and in disambiguation if more read-ings of a particular sentence are possible.6http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.0/doc/pdt-guide/en/html/ch03.html#a-data-formats78Figure 2: Class hierarchy of SegView annotationeditor.The output of the segment annotation is storedas a new layer of annotation, the seg-layer.4.2 SegView Annotation EditorThe SegView annotation editor is implementedcompletely in Java because of its cross-platformityand availability of rich libraries.
The presenta-tion layer is implemented in the class MainWin-dow using the standard Swing library.
As for thedata layer, the editor works with files in the PMLformat (see Section 4.1).
The model represent-ing the core of the implementation comprises threeclasses: Sentence, Word and Segment, Figure 2.After launching the editor, the user has the pos-sibility to select multiple files to annotate.
Afterthe selection, the program directly reads the filesand creates an internal representation with the in-stances of the three aforementioned classes.
Themanual annotation is saved in files with the exten-sion .seg.The screenshot of SegView editor is shown inFigure 3.5 Basic Statistics and ConclusionWe have described the pilot phase of the segmentannotation, during which 2,699 sentences fromPDT were annotated with respect to their sentencestructure.7 Table 1 summarizes the amount of an-notated data and gives statistics on number of pro-cessed segments and clauses.The most frequent annotation patterns are pre-sented in Table 2 showing the most common typesof sentences and relation among their clauses(only patterns with more than 100 sentence in-stances are listed).7We have focused on the sentences fromdata/full/amw/train2 portion of the PDT data.# sentences 2,699# segments 7,975# clauses 5,003max segments in clause 27max clauses in sentence 11max levels of embedding 4Table 1: Basic statistics of the annotated texts.sentences segments clauses max level783 1 1 0298 2 1 0195 2 2 1148 3 2 1123 3 1 0111 2 2 0Table 2: Distribution of segments and clauses.The most frequent type of annotated sentenceconsists of one segment only (and thus oneclause), then comes the case where two segmentsform a single clause.
The third position is for sen-tences with two segments, each forming an in-dividual clause, where one of them depends onthe other).
The fourth case represents sentencesformed by two clauses, one either depending onthe other or forming a parenthesis.
The fifth andsixth line represent sentences with segments on thesame level, e.i., with sentence members in coordi-nation or apposition and with coordinated clauses,respectively.
(The most common cases listed inthe table represent 61.5% of the annotated sen-tences; the rest has more complicated structures.
)Future workWe focus on the inter-annotator agreement on areasonable large set of data now to check the con-sistency between the human annotators.
Then theannotation will continue ?
the goal is to cover10% of sentences from PDT with assigned sen-tence structure.We expect the use of the manually annotateddata for testing tools and hypotheses on possiblesentence structures.
The proposed amount of datais comparable with the standard PDT testing data.We do not foreseen the use of this set of segmen-tation charts for training statistically-based tool(s)for an automatic identification of sentence struc-tures.The set of precisely annotated data allows usto solidly compare and evaluate the already ex-isting automatic segmentation tools processing ei-ther the raw texts or syntactically annotated trees,see Kru?za and Kubon?
(2009) and Lopatkova?
and79Figure 3: SegView editor: The segmentation chart for sentence ?According to the General-Anzeiger,Czech president appealed to Czechs and Germans that they should treat their history responsibly andimprove their mutual dialogue and cooperation.?
(clauses marked by ellipses).Holan (2009).
These data also allow us to searchfor systemic differences between the manual andautomatic sentence structure annotation.
Then thepossibility of further improving the tools will beopened.The use of data with automatically annotatedsentence structure in machine translation sys-tem among related languages, as in Homola andKubon?
(2008), is also foreseen.AcknowledgementsThis paper presents the results of the grantof the Grant Agency of Czech RepublicNo.
405/08/0681.
The research is carriedout within the project of the Ministry of Ed-ucation, Youth and Sports of Czech RepublicNo.
MSM0021620838.ReferencesSteven P. Abney.
1991.
Parsing By Chunks.
InR.
Berwick, S. Abney, and C. Tenny, editors,Principle-Based Parsing, pages 257?278.
KluwerAcademic Publishers.Steven P. Abney.
1995.
Partial Parsing via Finite-StateCascades.
Journal of Natural Language Engineer-ing, 2(4):337?344.Fabio Ciravegna and Alberto Lavelli.
1999.
Full TextParsing using Cascades of Rules: An InformationExtraction Procedure.
In Proceedings of EACL?99,pages 102?109.
University of Bergen.Jan Hajic?, Eva Hajic?ova?, Jarmila Panevova?, Petr Sgall,Petr Pajas, Jan S?te?pa?nek, Jir???
Havelka, and MarieMikulova?.
2006.
Prague Dependency Treebank 2.0.LDC.Jan Hajic?.
2004.
Disambiguation of Rich Inflection(Computational Morphology of Czech).
KarolinumPress.Petr Homola and Vladislav Kubon?.
2008.
A hybridmachine translation system for typologically relatedlanguages.
In David Wilson and Chad Lane, editors,Proceedings of FLAIRS 2008), pages 227?228, Co-conut Grove, Florida, USA.
AAAI Press.Bernard E. M. Jones.
1994.
Exploiting the Role ofPunctuation in Parsing Natural Text.
In Proceedingsof the COLING?94, pages 421?425.Oldr?ich Kru?za and Vladislav Kubon?.
2009.
AutomaticExtraction of Clause Relationships from a Treebank.In Computational Linguistics and Intelligent TextProcessing - Proceedings of CICLing 2009, volume5449 of LNCS, pages 195?206.
Springer-Verlag.Vladislav Kubon?, Marke?ta Lopatkova?, Martin Pla?tek,and Patrice Pognan.
2007.
A Linguistically-BasedSegmentation of Complex Sentences.
In D.C. Wil-son and G.C.J.
Sutcliffe, editors, Proceedings ofFLAIRS Conference, pages 368?374.
AAAI Press.Vladislav Kubon?.
2001.
Problems of Robust Parsingof Czech.
Ph.D. thesis, Faculty of Mathematics andPhysics, Charles University in Prague.Marke?ta Lopatkova?
and Toma?s?
Holan.
2009.
Seg-mentation Charts for Czech ?
Relations among Seg-ments in Complex Sentences.
In A. H. Dediu, A. M.Ionescu, and C.
Mart?
?n-Vide, editors, Proceedings ofLATA 2009, volume 5457 of LNCS, pages 542?553.Springer-Verlag.Tomohiro Ohno, Shigeki Matsubara, Hideki Kashioka,Takehiko Maruyama, and Yasuyoshi Inagaki.
2006.Dependency Parsing of Japanese Spoken Mono-logue Based on Clause Boundaries.
In Proceedingsof COLING and ACL, pages 169?176.
ACL.80Petr Pajas and Jan S?te?pa?nek.
2006.
XML-Based Rep-resentation of Multi-Layered Annotation in the PDT2.0.
In Proceedings of LREC 2006 Workshop onMerging and Layering Linguistic Information, pages40?47.
ELRA.Daniel Zeman.
2004.
Parsing with a Statistical De-pendency Model.
Ph.D. thesis, Charles Universityin Prague, Prague.81
