Proceedings of SSST-3, Third Workshop on Syntax and Structure in Statistical Translation, pages 45?50,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Study of Translation Rule Classification for Syntax-based StatisticalMachine TranslationHongfei Jiang, Sheng Li, Muyun Yang and Tiejun ZhaoSchool of Computer Science and TechnologyHarbin Institute of Technology{hfjiang,lisheng,ymy,tjzhao}@mtlab.hit.edu.cnAbstractRecently, numerous statistical machine trans-lation models which can utilize various kindsof translation rules are proposed.
In thesemodels, not only the conventional syntacticrules but also the non-syntactic rules can beapplied.
Even the pure phrase rules are in-cludes in some of these models.
Although thebetter performances are reported over the con-ventional phrase model and syntax model, themixture of diversified rules still leaves muchroom for study.
In this paper, we present arefined rule classification system.
Based onthis classification system, the rules are classi-fied according to different standards, such aslexicalization level and generalization.
Espe-cially, we refresh the concepts of the structurereordering rules and the discontiguous phraserules.
This novel classification system maysupports the SMT research community withsome helpful references.1 IntroductionPhrase-based statistical machine translation mod-els (Marcu and Wong, 2002; Koehn et al, 2003; Ochand Ney, 2004; Koehn, 2004; Koehn et al, 2007)have achieved significant improvements in trans-lation accuracy over the original IBM word-basedmodel.
However, there are still many limitations inphrase based models.
The most frequently pointedlimitation is its inefficacy to modeling the struc-ture reordering and the discontiguous correspond-ing.
To overcome these limitations, many syntax-based SMT models have been proposed (Wu, 1997;Chiang, 2007; Ding et al, 2005; Eisner, 2003; Quirket al, 2005; Liu et al, 2007; Zhang et al, 2007;Zhang et al, 2008a; Zhang et al, 2008b; Gildea,2003; Galley et al, 2004; Marcu et al, 2006; Bod,2007).
The basic motivation behind syntax-basedmodel is that the syntax information has the poten-tial to model the structure reordering and discontigu-ous corresponding by the intrinsic structural gener-alization ability.
Although remarkable progresseshave been reported, the strict syntactic constraint(the both sides of the rules should strictly be a sub-tree of the whole syntax parse) greatly hinders theutilization of the non-syntactic translation equiva-lents.
To alleviate this constraint, a few works haveattempted to make full use of the non-syntactic rulesby extending their syntax-based models to moregeneral frameworks.
For example, forest-to-stringtransformation rules have been integrated into thetree-to-string translation framework by (Liu et al,2006; Liu et al, 2007).
Zhang et al (2008a) madeit possible to utilize the non-syntactic rules and eventhe phrases which are used in phrase based modelby advancing a general tree sequence to tree se-quence framework based on the tree-to-tree modelpresented in (Zhang et al, 2007).
In these mod-els, various kinds of rules can be employed.
Forexample, as shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2, Fig-ure 1 shows a Chinese-to-English sentence pair withsyntax parses on both sides and the word alignments(dotted lines).
Figure 2 lists some of the rules whichcan be extracted from the sentence pair in Figure 1by the system used in (Zhang et al, 2008a).
Theserules includes not only conventional syntax rules butalso the tree sequence rules (the multi-headed syn-tax rules ).
Even the phrase rules are adopted by45the system.
Although the better performances arereported over the conventional phrase-based modeland syntax-based model, the mixture of diversifiedrules still leaves much room for study.
Given such ahybrid rule set, we must want to know what kinds ofrules can make more important contributions to theoverall system performance and what kinds of rulesare redundant compared with the others.
From en-gineering point of view, the developers may concernabout which kinds of rules should be preferred andwhich kinds of rules could be discard without toomuch decline in translation quality.
However, one ofthe precondition for the investigations of these issuesis what are the ?rule categories??
In other words,some comprehensive rule classifications are neces-sary to make the rule analyses feasible.
The motiva-tion of this paper is to present such a rule classifica-tion.2 Related WorksA few researches have made some exploratory in-vestigations towards the effects of different rules byclassifying the translation rules into different sub-categories (Liu et al, 2007; Zhang et al, 2008a;DeNeefe et al, 2007).
Liu et al (2007) differenti-ated the rules in their tree-to-string model which in-tegrated with forest1-to-string into fully lexicalizedrules, non-lexicalized rules and partial lexicalizedrules according to the lexicalization levels.
As anextension, Zhang et al (2008a) proposed two morecategories: Structure Reordering Rules (SRR) andDiscontiguous Phrase Rules (DPR).
The SRR standsfor the rules which have at least two non-terminalleaf nodes with inverted order in the source and tar-get side.
And DPR refers to the rules having atleast one non-terminal leaf node between two termi-nal leaf nodes.
(DeNeefe et al, 2007) made an illu-minating breakdown of the different kinds of rules.Firstly, they classify all the GHKM2 rules (Galley etal., 2004; Galley et al, 2006) into two categories:lexical rules and non-lexical rules.
The former arethe rules whose source side has no source words.In other words, a non-lexical rule is a purely ab-1A ?forest?
means a sub-tree sequence derived from a givenparse tree2One reviewer asked about the acronym GHKM.
We guessit is an acronym for the authors of (Galley et al, 2004): MichelGalley, Mark Hopkins, Kevin Knight and Daniel Marcu.?
?
??
?Figure 1: A syntax tree pair example.
Dotted lines standsfor the word alignments.stract rule.
The latter is the complementary set ofthe former.
And then lexical rules are classified fur-ther into phrasal rules and non-phrasal rules.
Thephrasal rules refer to the rules whose source sideand the yield of the target side contain exactly onecontiguous phrase each.
And the one or more non-terminals can be placed on either side of the phrase.In other words, each phrasal rule can be simulatedby the conjunction of two more phrase rules.
(De-Neefe et al, 2007) classifies non-phrasal rules fur-ther into structural rules, re-ordering rules, and non-contiguous phrase rules.
However, these categoriesare not explicitly defined in (DeNeefe et al, 2007)since out of its focus.
Our proposed rule classifica-tion is inspired by these works.3 Rules ClassificationsCurrently, there have been several classificationsin SMT research community.
Generally, the rulescan be classified into two main groups according towhether syntax information is involved: bilingualphrases (Phrase) and syntax rules (Syntax).
Fur-ther, the syntax rules can be divided into three cat-egories according to the lexicalization levels (Liu etal., 2007; Zhang et al, 2008a):1) Fully lexicalized (FLex): all leaf nodes in boththe source and target sides are lexicons (termi-nals)2) Unlexicalized (ULex): all leaf nodes in both the46???
????
?????
?Figure 2: Some rules can be extracted by the system used in (Zhang et al, 2008a) from the sentence pair in Figure 1.source and target sides are non-lexicons (non-terminals)3) Partially lexicalized (PLex): otherwise.In Figure 2, R1-R3 are FLex rules, and R5-R8 arePLex rules.Following (Zhang et al, 2008b), a syntax rule rcan be formalized into a tuple< ?s, ?t, AT , ANT >, where ?s and ?t are tree sequences of source sideand target side respectively, AT is a many-to-manycorrespondence set which includes the alignmentsbetween the terminal leaf nodes from source and tar-get side, and ANT is a one-to-one correspondenceset which includes the synchronizing relations be-tween the non-terminal leaf nodes from source andtarget side.Then, the syntax rules can also fall into two cat-egories according to whether equipping with gen-eralization capability (Chiang, 2007; Zhang et al,2008a):1) Initial rules (Initial): all leaf nodes of this rule areterminals.2) Abstract rules (Abstract): otherwise, i.e.
at leastone leaf node is a non-terminal.A non-terminal leaf node in a rule is named an ab-stract node since it has the generalization capabil-ity.
Comparing these two classifications for syntaxrules, we can find that a FLex rule is a initial rulewhen ULex rules and PLex rules belong to abstractrules.These classifications are clear and easy for un-derstanding.
However, we argue that they needfurther refinement for in-depth study.
Specially,more refined differentiations are needed for the ab-stract rules (ULex rules and PLex rules) since theyplay important roles for the characteristic capabil-ities which are deemed to be the advantages overthe phrase-based model.
For instance, the potentialsto model the structure reordering and the discon-tiguous correspondence.
The Structure ReorderingRules (SRR) and Discontiguous Phrase Rules (DPR)mentioned by (Zhang et al, 2008a) can be regardedas more in-depth classification of the syntax rules.In (Zhang et al, 2008a), they are described as fol-lows:Definition 1: The Structure Reordering Rule(SRR) refers to the structure reordering rule that hasat least two non-terminal leaf nodes with invertedorder in the source and target side.Definition 2: The Discontiguous Phrase Rule(DPR) refers to the rule having at least one non-terminal leaf node between two lexicalized leafnodes.47Based on these descriptions, R7, R8 in Figure 2belong to the category of SRR and R6, R7 fall intothe category of DPR.
Although these two definitionsare easy implemented in practice, we argue that thedefinition of SRR is not complete.
The reorderingrules involving the reordering between content wordterminals and non-terminal (such as R5 in Figure2) also can model the useful structure reorderings.Moreover, it is not uncommon that a rule demon-strates the reorderings between two non-terminalsas well as the reorderings between one non-terminaland one content word terminal.
The reason for ouremphasis of content word terminal is that the re-orderings between the non-terminals and functionword are less meaningful.One of the theoretical problems with phrase basedSMT models is that they can not effectively modelthe discontiguous translations and numerous at-tempts have been made on this issue (Simard et al,2005; Quirk and Menezes, 2006; Wellington et al,2006; Bod, 2007; Zhang et al, 2007).
What seemsto be lacking, however, is a explicit definition to thediscontiguous translation.
The definition of DPRin (Zhang et al, 2008a) is explicit but somewhatrough and not very accurate.
For example, in Fig-ure 3(a), non-terminal node pair ([0,???
], [0,?love?])
is surrounded by lexical terminals.
According toDefinition 2, it is a DPR.
However, obviously it isnot a discontiguous phrase actually.
This rule can besimulated by conjunctions of three phrases (??
?, ?I?;??
?, ?love?
; ???,?you?).
In contrast, the translationrule in Figure 3(b) is an actual discontiguous phraserule.
The English correspondences of the Chineseword ???
is dispersed in the English side in whichthe correspondence of Chinese word ???
is inserted.This rule can not be simulated by any conjunctionsof the sub phrases.
It must be noted that the dis-contiguous phrase (??
?-?switch .
.
.
off?)
can notbe abstracted under the existing synchronous gram-mar frameworks.
The fundamental reason is thatthe corresponding parts should be abstracted in thesame time and lexicalized in the same time.
In otherwords, the discontiguous phrase can not be modeledby the permutation between non-terminals (abstractnodes).
Another point to notice is that our focus inthis paper is the ability demonstrated by the abstractrules.
Thus, we do not pay much attentions to the re-orderings and discontiguous phrases involved in the?
??
?
?Figure 3: Examples for demonstrating the actual discon-tiguous phrase.
(a) is a negative example for the definitionof DPR in (Zhang et al, 2008a), (b) is a actual discon-tiguous phrase rule.2Figure 4: The rule classifications used in this paper.
(a)shows that the rules can be divided into phrase rules andsyntax rules according to whether a rule includes the syn-tactic information.
(b) illustrates that the syntax rules canbe classified into three kinds according to the lexicaliza-tion level.
(c) shows that the abstract rules can be classi-fied into more refined sub-categories.phrase rules (e.g.
??
?
?-?switch the light off?
)since they lack the generalization capability.
There-fore, the discontiguous phrase is limited to the rela-tion between non-terminals and terminals.On the basis of the above analyses, we presenta novel classification system for the abstract rulesbased on the crossings between the leaf nodealignment links.
Given an abstract rule r =<?s, ?t, AT , ANT >, it is1) a Structure Reordering Rule (SRR), if ?
a linkl ?
ANT is crossed with a link l?
?
{AT ?ANT }a) a SRR NT2 rule, if the link l?
?
ANTb) a SRR NT-T rule, if the link l?
?
AT2) not a Structure Reordering Rule (N-SRR), other-wise.48??
?Figure 5: The patterns to show the characteristics of dis-contiguous phrase rules.Note that the intersection of SRR NT2 and SRR NT-T is not necessary an empty set, i.e.
a rule can beboth SRR NT2 and SRR NT-T rule.The basic characteristic of the discontiguoustranslation is that the correspondence of one non-terminal NT is inserted among the correspondencesof one phrase X .
Figure 5 (a) illustrates this sit-uation.
However, this characteristic can not sup-port necessary and sufficient condition.
For exam-ple, if the phrase X can be divided like Figure 5(b), then the rule in Figure 5 (a) is actually a re-ordering rule rather than a discontiguous phrase rule.For sufficient condition, we constrain that the phraseX = wi .
.
.
wj need to satisfy the requirement: wishould be connected with wj through word align-ment links (A word is connected with itself).
In Fig-ure 5(c), f1 is connected with f2 when NT ?
is in-serted between e1 and e2.
Thus, the rule in Figure5(c) is a discontiguous phrase rule.Definition 3: Given an abstract rule r =<?s, ?t, AT , ANT >, it is a Discontiguous Phrase iff?
two links lt1, lt2 from AT and a link lnt from ANT ,satisfy: lt1, lt2 are emitted from the same word andlt1 is crossed with lnt when lt2 is not crossed withlnt.Through Definition 3, we know that the DPR is asub-set of the SRR NT-T.4 Conclusions and Future WorksIn this paper, we present a refined rule classifica-tion system.
Based on this classification system, therules are classified according to different standards,such as lexicalization level and generalization.
Es-pecially, we refresh the concepts of the structure re-ordering rules and the discontiguous phrase rules.This novel classification system may supports theSMT research community with some helpful refer-ences.In the future works, aiming to analyze the rulecontributions and the redundances issues using thepresented rule classification based on some realtranslation systems, we plan to implement some syn-chronous grammar based syntax translation modelssuch as the one presented in (Liu et al, 2007) orin (Zhang et al, 2008a).
Taking such a system asthe experimental platform, we can perform compre-hensive statistics about distributions of different rulecategories.
What is more important, the contribu-tion of each rule category can be evaluated seriatim.Furthermore, which kinds of rules are preferentiallyapplied in the 1-best decoding can be studied.
Allthese investigations could reveal very useful infor-mation for the optimization of rule extraction and theimprovement of the computational models for syn-chronous grammar based machine translation.AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported by the Key Program ofNational Natural Science Foundation of China(60736014), and the Key Project of the NationalHigh Technology Research and Development Pro-gram of China (2006AA010108).ReferencesRens Bod.
2007.
Unsupervised syntax-based machinetranslation: The contribution of discontiguous phrases.In Proceedings of Machine Translation Summit XI2007,Copenhagen, Denmark.David Chiang.
2007.
Hierarchical phrase-based transla-tion.
In computational linguistics, 33(2).Ding, Y. and Palmer, M. 2005.
Machine translation usingprobabilistic synchronous dependency insertion gram-mars In Proceedings of ACL.DeNeefe, S. and Knight, K. and Wang, W. and Marcu, D.2007.
What can syntax-based MT learn from phrase-based MT?
In Proceedings of EMNLP/CONLL.Michel Galley, Mark Hopkins, Kevin Knight and DanielMarcu.
2004.
What?s in a translation rule?
In Pro-ceedings of NAACL-HLT 2004, pages 273-280.49Galley, M. and Graehl, J. and Knight, K. and Marcu,D.
and DeNeefe, S. and Wang, W. and Thayer, I.2006.
Scalable inference and training of context-richsyntactic translation models In Proceedings of ACL-COLINGDaniel Gildea 2003.
Loosely Tree-Based Alignment forMachine Translation.
In Proceedings of ACL 2003,pages 80-87.Jason Eisner.
2003.
Learning non-isomorphic tree map-pings for machine translation.
In Proceedings of ACL2003.Philipp Koehn, Franz Joseph Och, and Daniel Marcu.2003.
Statistical phrase-based translation.
In Proceed-ings of HLT/NAACL 2003, pages 127-133, Edmonton,Canada, May.Philipp Koehn.
2004.
Pharaoh: a beam search decoderfor phrase-based statistical machine translation mod-els.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Conference of theAssociation for Machine Translation in the Americas,pages 115-124.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, RichardZens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar, Alexandra Con-stantin, Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: open sourcetoolkit for statistical machine translation.
ACL 2007,demonstration session, Prague, Czech Republic, June2007.Yang Liu, Qun Liu, Shouxun Lin.
2006.
Tree-to-stringalignment template for statistical machine translation.In Proceedings of ACL-COLING.Yang Liu, Yun Huang, Qun Liu, and Shouxun Lin.
2007.Forest-to-string statistical translation rules.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL 2007, pages 704-711.Daniel Marcu and William Wong.
2002.
A phrase based,joint probability model for statistical machine transla-tion.
In Proceedings of EMNLP.Daniel Marcu, Wei Wang, Abdessamad Echihabi, andKevin Knight.
2006.
SPMT: Statistical machine trans-lation with syntactified target language Phrases.
InProceedings of EMNLP.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2000.
Improvedstatistical alignment models.
In Proceedings of ACL2000, pages 440-447.Franz Josef Och and Herman Ney.
2004.
The align-ment template approach to statistical machine trans-lation.
Computational Linguistics, 30(4):417-449.Chris Quirk, Arul Menezes, and Colin Cherry.
2005.
De-pendency treelet translation: Syntactically informedphrasal SMT.
In Proceedings of ACL 2005, pages 271-279, Ann Arbor, Michigan, June.Chris Quirk and Arul Menezes.
2006.
Do we needphrases?
Challenging the conventional wisdom inStatistical Machine Translation.
In Proceedings ofHLT/NAACLSimard, M. and Cancedda, N. and Cavestro, B. andDymetman, M. and Gaussier, E. and Goutte, C. andYamada, K. and Langlais, P. and Mauser, A.
2005.Translating with non-contiguous phrases.
In Proceed-ings of HLT-EMNLP, volume 2, pages 901-904.Benjamin Wellington, Sonjia Waxmonsky and I. DanMelamed.
2006.
Empirical Lower Bounds on theComplexity of Translational Equivalence.
In Proceed-ings of ACL-COLING 2006, pages 977-984.Dekai Wu.
1997.
Stochastic inversion transductiongrammars and bilingual parsing of parallel corpora.
InProceedings of ACL 1997.
Computational Linguistics,23(3):377-403.Min Zhang, Hongfei Jiang, Ai Ti AW, Jun Sun, ShengLi, and Chew Lim Tan.
2007.
A tree-to-treealignment-based model for statistical machine trans-lation.
In Proceedings of Machine Translation SummitXI 2007,Copenhagen, Denmark.Min Zhang, Hongfei Jiang, Ai Ti AW, Haizhou Li, ChewLim Tan and Sheng Li.
2008a.
A tree sequencealignment-based tree-to-tree translation model.
InProceedings of ACL-HLTMin Zhang, Hongfei Jiang, Haizhou Li, Ai Ti AW,and Sheng Li.
2008b.
Grammar Comparison Studyfor Translational Equivalence Modeling and StatisticalMachine Translation.
In Proceedings of Coling50
