Proceedings of the NAACL HLT Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 1?8,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsDiscourse Topics and MetaphorsBeata Beigman KlebanovNorthwestern Universitybeata@northwestern.eduEyal BeigmanWashington University in St. Louisbeigman@wustl.eduDaniel DiermeierNorthwestern Universityd-diermeier@northwestern.eduAbstractUsing metaphor-annotated material that issufficiently representative of the topicalcomposition of a similar-length document ina large background corpus, we show thatwords expressing a discourse-wide topic ofdiscussion are less likely to be metaphoricalthan other words in a document.
Ourresults suggest that to harvest metaphors moreeffectively, one is advised to consider wordsthat do not represent a discourse topic.Traditionally, metaphor detectors use theobservation that a metaphorically used item createsa local incongruity because there is a violationof a selectional restriction, such as providing anon-vehicle object to the verb derail in Protestersderailed the conference.
Current state of artin metaphor detection therefore tends to be?localistic?
?
the distributional profile of the targetword in its immediate grammatical or collocationalcontext in a background corpus or a databaselike WordNet is used to determine metaphoricity(Mason, 2004; Krishnakumaran and Zhu, 2007;Birke and Sarkar, 2006; Gedigian et al, 2006; Fass,1991).However, some theories of metaphor postulatecertain features of metaphors that connect it to thesurrounding text beyond the small grammatical orproximal locality.
For example, for Kittay (1987)metaphor is a discourse phenomenon; althoughthe minimal metaphoric unit is a clause, oftenmuch larger chunks of text constitute a metaphor.Consider, for example, the TRAIN metaphor in thefollowing excerpt from a Sunday Times article on20 September 1992:Thatcher warned EC leaders to stop theirendless round of summits and take noticeof their own people.
?There is a fear thatthe European train will thunder forward,laden with its customary cargo of gravy,towards a destination neither wished fornor understood by electorates.
But thetrain can be stopped,?
she said.In the example above, the quotation is not in itselfa metaphor, as there is no indication that somethingother than the actual train is being discussed (andso no local incongruities exist).
Only when situatedin the context prepared by the first sentence (andindeed the rest of the article), the train imagerybecomes a metaphor.According to Kittay, a metaphor occurs whena semantic field is used to discuss a differentcontent domain.
The theory therefore predicts that ametaphorically used semantic domain would be off-topic in the given document.Although a single document can have singular,idiosyncratic topics, it is likelier to discuss a mix oftopics that are typical of the discourse of which it ispart.
We therefore derive the following hypothesis:Words in a given document that represent a commontopic of discussion in a corpus of relevant documentswould be predominantly non-metaphorical.
That is,a smaller share of metaphorically used words in adocument would fall in such topical words than theshare of topical words in the document.We test this hypothesis in the current article.1Using a large background corpus, we estimatethe topical composition of the target documents(section 1) that were annotated for metaphors(section 2).
We then report the results of theexperiment (section 3) that strongly support thehypothesis, and discuss the findings (section 4).
Theconcluding section provides a summary and outlinesthe significance of the results for the practice ofmetaphor detection.1 Topic identification1.1 EUI corpusOur aimwas to create a large corpus of British mediadiscourse regarding the emerging European Unioninstitutions, with both Euro-phile and Euro-scepticcamps represented.
Our corpus consists of 12,814articles drawn from three British newspapers: TheGuardian (34%), The Times (38%), and TheIndependent (28%), dating from 1990 to 2000.We used LexisNexis Academic1 to search for theSubject index term European Union Institutions(henceforth, EUI).2 After results are retrieved, wefurther narrow them down to only documents on thesubject European Union Institutions in the detailedsubject index of the retrieved results.3,41.2 Identification of discourse topicsWe converted all 12,858 documents5 (henceforth,EUI+M corpus) into plain text format and removed1http://academic.lexisnexis.com/online-services/academic-features.aspx2In LexisNexis subject index hierarchy: Governmentand Public Administration/International Organization andBodies/International Governmental Organizations/EuropeanUnion Institutions.3In the initial search, an article that scores 72% on thesubject would be retrieved, but it would not be classified asbeing on this subject, and so would not be included in the finaldataset.
Articles in the final dataset tend to score about 90% onthe subject, according to LexisNexis index.4There is a gap in LexisNexis?
index coverage of TheTimes during 1996-7 and of The Independent during 2000.
Toavoid under-representation of the newspaper and of the relevantyears in the sample, we added articles returned for the searchSECTION(Home news) AND (European Union OR Brussels)on The Times 01/1996 through 04/1998, and SECTION(NewsAND NOT Foreign) AND (European Union OR Brussels) onThe Independent throughout 2000.512,814 EUI corpus plus 44 documents annotated formetaphors, to be described in section 2.words from a list of 153 common function words.We then constructed an indexing vocabulary V thatincluded all and only words that (a) contained onlyletters; and (b) appeared at least 6 times in thecollection.
All documents were indexed using this21,046 word vocabulary.
We will designate all theindexed words in document i as Di.To identify the main discourse topics inthe EUI+M corpus, we submitted the indexeddocuments to an unsupervised clustering methodLatent Dirichlet Allocation (Blei et al, 2003)(henceforth, LDA).6 The designation of the clustersas topics is supported by findings reported in Bleiet al (2003) that the clusters contain informationrelevant for topic discrimination.
Additionally,Chanen and Patrick (2007) show that LDA achievessignificant correlations with humans on a topiccharacterization task, where humans produced notjust a topic classification but also identified phrasesthey believed were indicative of each class.Using the default settings of LDAimplementation,7 we analyzed the corpus into100 topics.
Table 1 exemplifies some of theemergent topics.1.3 Topical words in a textLDA is a generative model of text.
According to itsoutlook, every text is about a small (typically 5-7)number of topics, and each indexed word in the textbelongs to one of these topics.
However, in manycases, the relationship between the word and thetopic is quite tentative, as the word is not particularlylikely given the topic.
We therefore use parameter kto control topic assignments ?
we only take LDA?sassignment of word to topic if the word is in thetop k most likely words for that topic.
For k=25,about 15% of in-vocabulary words in a documentare assigned to a topic; for k=400, about half thein-vocabulary words are assigned to some topic.
Wedesignate byTki all indexed words in document i thatare assigned to some topic for the given value of k.The ratio |Tki ||Di| describes the proportion of discoursetopical words in the indexed words for the givendocument.6No stemming was performed.7downloaded from http://www.cs.princeton.edu/?blei/lda-c/2Table 1: Examples of topics identified by LDA in theEUI+M corpus.
All words are taken from top 25 mostlikely words given the topic.
We boldface one word percluster, that could provide, in our view, an appropriatelabel for the cluster.foreign nato military war russian defence sovietpiece un kosovo sanctions bosnia moscowrail tunnel transport train pounds channel eurostarferry trains passengers services paris eurotunnelcountries europe enlargement new membershipmembers eastern conference reform voting summitcommission foreign join poland negotiationsparliament mep party socialist strasbourg christianvote leader labour conservative right political greendemocrat elections epptelevision commission satellite tv broadcastingtickets film broadcasters bbc programmes mediaindustry channel public directivecourt article justice member directive treatyquestion provisions case law regulation judgmentinterpretation rules order proceedingssocial workers employment working hoursjobs week employers legislation unionsemployees chapter rights health minimumbank central euro monetary rates currencyinterest bundesbank markets economic exchangefinance inflation dollar germanplayers football clubs uefa league fifa game cupfishing fish fishermen fisheries quota vesselsboats waters sea fleetracism racist ethnic xenophobia black minoritiesjury discrimination white relationsdrugs patent research human companies geneticscientists health medical biotechnology diseasechildren parents punishment school rights familychildcare corporal education law father mothercontrols immigration border asylum checkspassport police citizens crime europolenergy nuclear emissions oil electricity gasenvironment carbon tax pollution fuel global cutcommission fraud commissioners brussels reportallegations officials inquiry meps corruptionmismanagement staff santer2 Metaphor annotationIdeally, we should have sampled a small sub-corpusfrom the EUI corpus for metaphor annotation;however, the choice of the data for annotationpredated the construction of the EUI corpus.Our interest being in the way metaphors usedin public discourse help shape attitudes towardsa complex, ongoing and fateful political reality,we came across Musolff?s (2000) work on theBritish discourse on the European integrationprocess throughout the 1990s.
Working in thecorpus linguistics tradition, Musolff (2000) studieda number of metaphors recurrent in this discourse,making available a selection of materials he used,marked with the metaphors.8One caveat to directly using the database is thelack of clarity regarding the metaphor annotationprocedure.
In particular, the author does notreport how many people participated, or any inter-annotator agreement figures.
We therefore chose4 out of Musolff?s list of source domains, tookall articles corresponding to them (128 documents),along with 23 articles from other source domains,and submitted them to a group of 8 undergraduateannotators, on top of Musolff?s original markup thatis treated as another annotator.Annotators received the following instructions,reflecting our focus on the persuasive use ofmetaphor, as part of an argument:Generally speaking, a metaphor is alinguistic expression whereby somethingis compared to something else that it isclearly literally not, in order to make apoint.
Thus, in Tony Blair?s famous ?Ihaven?t got a reverse gear?, Tony Blairis compared to a car in order to stresshis unwillingness/inability to retract hisstatements or actions.
We would say inthis case that a metaphor from a VEHICLEdomain is used.
In this study we willconsider metaphors from 4 domains.For the 4 chosen domains we provided thefollowing descriptions, along with 2 examples foreach:8available from http://www.dur.ac.uk/andreas.musolff/Arcindex.htm3AUTHORITY Metaphors that have to do withdiscipline and authority, like school, religion,royalty, asylum, prison, etc.LOVE Metaphors from love/romance and family.BUILD Metaphors that have to do with building(the process) and houses and other buildings orconstructions, their parts and uses.VEHICLE Metaphors that have to do with land-borne vehicles, their parts, operation andmaintenance.People were instructed to mark every paragraphwhere a metaphor from a given domain occurs.
Theywere also asked to provide a comment that brieflysummarizes the ground for their decision, sayingwhat is being compared to what.9Table 2 shows the inter-annotator agreementfigures.Table 2: Inter-annotator agreement, measured on 2364paragraphs (151 documents).11Source Domain of Metaphor ?LOVE 0.66VEHICLE 0.66AUTHORITY 0.39BUILD 0.43LOVE and VEHICLE are close to acceptablereliability, with the other two types scoring low.In order to understand the nature of disagreements,we submitted the annotated materials plus somerandom annotations to 7 out of the original 8 peoplefor validation, 4-8 weeks after they completedthe annotations, asking them to accept or reject9In the topics vs metaphors experiment, we test thehypothesis on words rather than paragraphs.
For metaphorsfrom a pre-specified domain, such as VEHICLE or LOVE, itwas usually clear which words in the paragraph belong to thedomain and are used metaphorically.
People?s comments oftenexplicitly used words from the paragraph, or made it otherwiseclear through their description.
For OpenMeta phase (please seebelow), where people were asked to mark metaphors from anysource domain, they were also asked to single out the words inthe paragraph that witness the metaphor, and these are the wordsused in the current experiment.11These are results for binary classification for each metaphortype rather than a multiclass classification, since some articleshave more than one type and some have none.metaphor markups.
We found that metaphorsinitially marked by at least 4 people (out of 9) wereaccepted as valid by people who did not initiallymark them in 91% of the cases, on average acrossthe metaphor types.
These are thus uncontroversialcases, with the missing annotations likely due toattention slips rather than to genuine differences ofopinion.
Metaphors initially marked by 1-3 peoplewere more controversial, with the average validationrate of 41% (Beigman Klebanov et al, 2008).Evidently, some of the metaphors are clearer-cut than others, yet even the more difficult casesgot non-negligible support at validation time frompeople who did not initially mark them.
Wetherefore decided to regard the whole of theannotated data as valid for the purpose of the currentresearch.
Our focus is on finding metaphors (recall),and less on making sure all candidate metaphors areacceptable to all annotators; it suffices to know thateven the minority opinion often finds support.In the second stage of the research, we expandedthe repertoire of the metaphor types to includeadditional source domains, mainly from Musolff?slist.
The dataset has so far been subjected tonon-expert annotations by a group of the total of15 undergraduate students.
Metaphors from thesource domains of VEHICLE, LOVE, BUILDING,AUTHORITY, WAR, SHOW, SCHOOL, RELIGION,MEDICINE were annotated by different subsets ofthe students.The outcome of the second stage of the project isnot sufficient for addressing the issue of discoursetopics vs metaphors, however, as there are instancesof metaphors in the text that do not fall into anyof the source domains singled out by Musolff asrecurrent ones in the discourse under consideration.We are now at an early stage of the third phrasewe call OpenMeta, where annotators are asked tomark all metaphors they can detect, not confiningthemselves to a given list of source domains.Only annotators who participated in the previous,type-constrained, version of the task participate inOpenMeta project.
So far, we have 44 documentsannotated by 3 people for open-domain metaphors.This subset features as full a coverage of allmetaphors used in the documents as we were ableto obtain so far, and it is going to serve as test datafor the topics vs metaphors hypothesis.4Our test set is thus biased towards recurrentmetaphorical domains (those named by Musolff),and towards metaphors that are relatively salientto a naive reader, from recurrent or other sourcedomains.
Metaphors marked in the test data arethose afforded a high degree of rhetorical presencein the discourse ?
either quantitatively, becausethey are repeated and elaborated, or qualitatively,because they are striking enough to arrest thenaive reader?s attention.
According to the PresenceTheory in rhetoric (Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca,1969; Gross and Dearin, 2003; Atkinson et al,2008), elements afforded high presence are key tothe rhetorical design of the argument.
These arenot so much metaphors we live by without evennoticing, such as those often studied in ConceptualMetaphor literature, like VALUE AS SIZE or TIMEAS SPACE; these are metaphors that are clearly amatter of the author?s conscious choice, closest inthe current theorizing to Steen?s (2008) notion ofdeliberate metaphors.2.1 Pseudo samplingThe annotated data is not really a sample of thecorpus.
In fact, it is not known to us exactly how thedocuments were chosen; although all 44 metaphorannotated documents are from the newspapers anddates participating in the EUI corpus, only 20% areactually in the EUI corpus.
How can we establishthat there is a fit between the EUI collection andthe annotated texts?
We check how well discoursetopics cover the documents, in the corpus and inthe annotated material.
Specifically, for a fixedk, is there a difference in the |Tki ||Di| for annotateddocuments as opposed to the corpus at large?
Usinga random sample of 50 documents from EUI corpus,a 2-tailed t-test yielded p < 0.05, for all k, thetrend being towards a better coverage of the EUIdocuments than of the metaphor annotated ones.We hypothesized that this was due to the largediscrepancy in the lengths of the texts: An averagetext in the EUI sample is 432 words long, whereasthe metaphor annotated texts are 775 words long onaverage, with the shortest having 343 words.
Shortertexts tend to be less elaborate and more ?to thepoint?, with a higher percentage of topical words.To neutralize the effect of length on topicalcoverage, we chose from the EUI sample onlydocuments that were at least 343 words long,resulting in 31 documents.
Comparing those to the44 metaphor annotated documents, we found p >0.37 for every k, i.e.
the annotated documents areindistinguishable in topical coverage from similar-length documents in the EUI corpus.3 Experiment3.1 Summary of notationV All and only non-stop words containing onlyletters that appeared in at least 6 documents inthe collection.Di All words in document i that are in V.Tki All words in document i that are in V and arein the top k words for some topic active indocument i according to LDA output.Mi All words in document i that are in V and aremarked as metaphors in this document.3.2 HypothesisWe hypothesize that words in a given documentthat are high-ranking representatives of a commontopic of discussion in a relevant corpus are lesslikely to be metaphorical than other words in thedocument.
That is, such words would contain asmaller proportion of metaphors than their share intext.
Using the definitions above: For an averagedocument i and any k, |Tki ||Di| >|Mi?Tki ||Mi| .3.3 ResultsAs we hypothesized, metaphors are under-represented in topically used words.
Thus, fork=25, about 15% of the indexed words in thedocument are deemed topical, containing about3% of the metaphorically used indexed wordsin that document.
For k=400, about 53% of theindexed words are topical, capturing only 22% ofthe metaphors.4 Discussion4.1 Metaphors from salient domainsA number of domains singled out by Musolff (2000)as being recurrent metaphors in the corpus, such50.000.100.200.300.400.500.6025 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400kFigure 1: As hypothesized, |Tki ||Di| , shown in circles, islarger than |Mi?Tki ||Mi| , shown in squares, for various k.as VEHICLE or LOVE, are also things people careabout politically, hence they also correspond torecurrent topics of discussion (see clusters titledtransport and childcare in table 1).
It has beenshown experimentally that the subject?s in-depthfamiliarity with the source domain is necessaryfor the metaphor to work as intended ?
see forexample Gentner and Gentner (1983) work on usingwater flow metaphors for electricity.
Our resultssuggest that participants in political discourse drawon domains not only familiar in general, but indeedhighly salient in the specific discourse itself.As a consequence, an extended metaphor from adiscourse-topical domain can be easily mistaken bythe topic detection software for a topical use of therelevant items.
Consider, for example, an extractfrom a 19 December 1991 article in Times:Denis Healey, former Labour Chancellorof the Exchequer, urged the primeministerto stop playing Tory party politics withthe negotiations over Europe and drew animage of Mr Major as a driver.
He said:?I understand that if you are driving a carand sitting behind you is a lady with ahandbag and a man with fangs, you mayfeel it wiser to drive in the slow lane.
Myown advice is that he should pull into alay-by, turf the others out and then handthe wheel over to firmer and safer hands.
?LDA considered {drive driving} to belong tothe topic that deals with safety and road accidents,including in its 200 most likely words {crashdied accidents pedestrians traffic safety cars mapsmotorists}, although additional metaphorically useditems from the same semantic domain, such aslane and wheel, were not among the top 200representatives of this topic.It is an intriguing direction for future researchto compare the topical and metaphorical uses ofsuch domains, in order to determine which aspectsloom large indeed, being both matters of literalconcern and prolific generators of metaphors, andhow these are manipulated for persuasive effects.The example above suggests that in the British EU-related discourse in 1990s safety of driving is botha topic-of-discussion (?Cyclists and pedestrians aremore vulnerable on British roads than anywhere elsein the European Union?, proclaims The Times on 18February 2000) and a metaphorical axis, stressingthe importance of care and control, the hallmarkof the Euro-sceptic stance towards the Europeanintegration process.4.2 Topical metaphorsPutting aside topic detector?s mistakes on extendedmetaphors from certain domains such as discussedin the previous section, what do metaphors in thetopical vocabulary look like?
The last topic shownin table 1 has to do with criticism towards EUbureaucracy, reflecting extensive discussions in theBritish media in the late 1990s of alleged corruptionand mismanagement in the European Commission.Together with the words cited in the table, this topiclists root as one of its 300 most likely words.This word shows up as a metaphor in 3 of our testdocuments.
In two of them it is used precisely in thecontext projected by the topic:In limpid language, whose meaning nobureaucrat can twist, these four wisemen and one wise woman delivered, totheir great credit, a coruscating indictmentnot just of individual commissioners, butof the entire management and corporateculture of the European Commission.They have made an incontestable case, inTony Blair?s words, for ?root and branchreform?.6Here, root is used in the root and branch idiomsuggesting a complete change, a reform, whichcomes as part of a bundle with severe criticism.Yet the figurative nature of this expression as ametaphor from PLANT domain is apparent to naivereaders, making it an instance of imagery routinelygoing together with criticism in this corpus.
Arelated metaphorical sense of root is attested insimilar contexts in the corpus, further explaining itsconnection to the topic:Not unless they insist on credible systemsto hold commissioners and bureaucrats toaccount.
And not unless they appointa new team with a brief not just toroot out malpractices but to shut downentire programmes, such as tourism andhumanitarian aid, which the Commissionis incompetent to manage and whichshould never have been added to its ever-expanding empire.A bloodied European Commission lookslikely to cling on to power today afteran eleventh-hour threat to quit by itsPresident, Jacques Santer, called the bluffof the European Parliament ... Allweek MEPs had been talking up the?nuclear option?
of sacking the fullCommission body over a burgeoningfraud and nepotism scandal that datesfrom 1995 ...
Early 1997: FinnishCommissioner Erkki Liikanen announcesplan to root out nepotism in Commissionand improve financial controls.In the third document with root metaphor, rootis used in a different environment, and is notconsidered topical by LDA:For at the root of this conflict lies theGerman denial that unemployment hasanything to do with cyclical fluctuationsin the economy.Our quantitative results show that cases suchas root are more an exception than a rule.
Yet,from the perspective of the argumentative use ofmetaphors, such cases are instructive of the waycertain metaphors get ?attached?
to certain topics ofdiscussion.
In this case, the majority of mentionsof root in this critical context come from TonyBlair?s expression that was cited and referencedwidely enough to acquire a statistical associationwith the discussion of the Commission?s failingsin the corpus.
Indeed, the political significance ofBlair?s successful appropriation of the issue was notlost on the media:Tony Blair has swiftly positioned himselfas the champion of ?root and branch?reform.
Not to be outdone, William Hagueunveiled a ?10-point plan?
for reformof the Commission, no doubt drawingon his extensive McKinsey managementexpertise.In future work, we plan to look closely at thetopical metaphors, as they potentially representoutcomes of leadership battles fought in the media,and can thus have political consequences.5 ConclusionUsing metaphor-annotated material that issufficiently representative of the topical compositionof a similar-length document in a large backgroundcorpus, we showed that words expressing adiscourse-wide topic of discussion are less likely tobe metaphorical than other words in a document.This is, to our knowledge, the first quantitativedemonstration of the connection betweenmetaphoricity of a given word and its role in therelevant background discourse.
It complements thetraditionally ?localistic?
outlook on metaphors thatis based on the observation that a metaphoricallyused item creates a local incongruity because thereis a violation of a selectional restrictions betweenverbs and their arguments (Fass, 1991; Mason,2004; Gedigian et al, 2006; Birke and Sarkar, 2006)or in the adjective-noun pairs (Krishnakumaran andZhu, 2007).
Global discourse-level informationcan potentially be used to focus metaphor detectorsoperating at the local level on items with highermetaphoric potential.Reining and Lo?nneker-Rodman (2007) useminimal topical information to focus their searchfor metaphors.
Working with a French-language7corpus discussing European politics, Reining andLo?nneker-Rodman (2007) proposed harvestingsalient collocates of the lemma Europe, thatrepresents the main topic of discussion and isthus hypothesized to be the main target domainof metaphors in this corpus.
Indeed, numerousinstances of metaphors were collected using a4-word window around the lemma in their corpus.Our work can be understood as developing amore nuanced approach to finding the likely targetdomains in the corpus ?
those words that representa topic of discussion rather than the means todiscuss a topic.
Thus, it is not just Europe per sethat is the target, but, more specifically, aspectssuch as monetary integration, employment, energy,immigration, transportation, and defense, amongothers.
Our results suggest that to harvest deliberatemetaphors more effectively, one is advised toconsider words that do not represent a discoursetopic.ReferencesNathan Atkinson, David Kaufer, and Suguru Ishizaki.2008.
Presence and Global Presence in Genres of Self-Presentation: A Framework for Comparative Analysis.Rhetoric Society Quarterly, 38(3):1?27.Beata Beigman Klebanov, Eyal Beigman, and DanielDiermeier.
2008.
Analyzing Disagreements.
In COL-ING 2008 Workshop on Human Judgments in Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 2?7, Manchester, UK.Julia Birke and Anoop Sarkar.
2006.
A clustering ap-proach for nearly unsupervised recognition of nonlit-eral language.
In Proceedings of EACL, pages 329?336.David Blei, Andrew Ng, and Michael Jordan.
2003.
La-tent Dirichlet Allocation.
Journal of Machine Learn-ing Resarch, 3:993?1022.Ari Chanen and Jon Patrick.
2007.
Measuring correla-tion between linguists judgments and Latent DirichletAllocation topics.
In Proceedings of the AustralasianLanguage Technology workshop, pages 13?20, Mel-bourne, Australia.Dan Fass.
1991.
Met*: A method for discriminatingmetonymy and metaphor by computer.
ComputationalLinguistics, 17(1):49?90.Matt Gedigian, John Bryant, Srinivas Narayanan, andBranimir Ciric.
2006.
Catching metaphors.
In Pro-ceedings of NAACL Workshop on Scalable NaturalLanguage Understanding, pages 41?48.Deidre Gentner and Donald Gentner.
1983.
Flowing wa-ters or teeming crowds: Mental models of electricity.In D. Gentner and A. Stevens, editors, Mental models.Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.Alan Gross and Ray Dearin.
2003.
Chaim Perelman.Albany: SUNY Press.Eva Feder Kittay.
1987.
Metaphor: Its cognitive forceand linguistic structure.
Oxford: Calderon Press.Saisuresh Krishnakumaran and Xiaojin Zhu.
2007.Hunting elusive metaphors using lexical resources.In Proceedings of the Workshop on ComputationalApproaches to Figurative Language, pages 13?20,Rochester, New York.Zachary J. Mason.
2004.
CorMet: A computational,corpus-based conventional metaphor extraction sys-tem.
Computational Linguistics, 30(1):23?44.Andreas Musolff.
2000.
Mirror images of Eu-rope: Metaphors in the public debate aboutEurope in Britain and Germany.
Mu?nchen:Iudicium.
Annotated data is available athttp://www.dur.ac.uk/andreas.musolff/Arcindex.htm.Chaim Perelman and Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca.
1969.
TheNew Rhetoric: A Treatise on Argumentation.
Wilkin-son, J. and Weaver, P. (trans).
Notre Dame, IN: Uni-versity of Notre Dame Press.Astrid Reining and Birte Lo?nneker-Rodman.
2007.Corpus-driven metaphor harvesting.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Computational Approaches to Figu-rative Language, pages 5?12, Rochester, New York.Gerard Steen.
2008.
The Paradox of Metaphor: WhyWe Need a Three-Dimensional Model of Metaphor.Metaphor and Symbol, 23(4):213?241.8
