Proceedings of the NAACL HLT Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 79?86,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsMorphological Productivity Rankings of Complex AdjectivesStefano VegnaduzzoAsk.comOakland, CA 94607, USAsvegnaduzzo@ask.comAbstractThis paper investigates a little-studied class ofadjectives that we refer to as ?complex adjec-tives?, i.e., operationally, adjectives consti-tuted of at least two word tokens separated bya hyphen.
We study the properties of these ad-jectives using two very large text collections:a portion of Wikipedia and a Web corpus.
Weconsider three corpus-based measures of mor-phological productivity, and we investigatehow productivity rankings based on them cor-relate with each other under different condi-tions, thus providing different angles both onthe morphological productivity of complexadjectives, and on the productivity measuresthemselves.1 IntroductionAdjectives as a syntactic category have receivedrelatively scarce attention in theoretical and com-putational linguistics, at least when compared tonoun and verbs.
Within the class of adjectivesthere is a particular group that has not receivedmuch specific attention.
These are the adjectivesthat can be operationally defined by the fact that inthe orthography they are constituted by at least twotokens separated by a hyphen.
Examples include:left-wing politician, best-selling book, part-timejob, large-scale experiment.
In this paper we willfocus the analysis on 2-item adjectives; howeverthe class includes several examples with more thantwo items: day-to-day, tongue-in-cheek, up-and-coming, state-of-the-art, pay-as-you-go, all-you-can-eat, etc.We refer to these adjectives as ?complex adjec-tives?.
They allow several mechanisms for thegeneration of new linguistic expressions which arespread along a continuum that goes from fullproductivity to lexicalized forms.
Treatingcomplex adjective formation as a morphologicalprocess allows us to characterize them in the lightof the notion of morphological productivity.Morphological productivity falls within thedomain of how the broad notion of creativity isrealized in language, by providing mechanisms forgenerating new words that are unintentional,unlimited and regular (Evert and L?deling 2001).Previous work has typically considered complexadjectives only in the context of tokenization andgenerally low-level text processing, withoutspecific focus on the class per se.
Moilanen andPulman (2008) identify polarity markers in certaincomplex adjectives for the purpose for assigningsentiment polarities to unknown words (well-builtis positive, rat-infested is negative).Highly productive classes like complexadjectives are problematic for computationallexicons in that they bring about a large number ofunknown words.
A typology of complex adjectivesis important to support computational lexicons andthe NLP applications based on them, for exampleby listing out the patterns (as defined in section 3)that complex adjectives are based on.2 DataThe analysis presented here is based on two largetext collections.
The first is a portion of Wikipedia,consisting of about 250 million tokens.
The secondcollection is a Web corpus specifically built forNLP applications targeted at adjectives, consistingof about 290 million tokens (after some reasonableclean-up process).
The list of all adjectives inWordNet1 was used as a seed list.
Each seed adjec-tive was sent as a query to the Yahoo search engine1 http://wordnet.princeton.edu.79BOSS API2.
For all the 1000 (the maximum al-lowed by the API) returned web results, each URLwas used to fetch the corresponding web page, andthe full text of the web page was processed for ad-dition to the corpus.
Both corpora were POS-tagged using the Stanford POS tagger3 (reportedaccuracy is about 97%).
Using such tagger thatwas trained on the Penn Treebank makes it easy toidentify complex adjectives, since the Penn Tree-bank tagging guidelines explicitly prescribe thathyphenated compounds used as modifiers shouldbe tagged as adjectives (JJ).The two corpora give a slightly different viewon the linguistic behavior of adjectives.
TheWikipedia corpus is intended to provide a pictureof adjective distribution in a large and relativelyhomogenous collection of current English text.
TheWeb corpus is intended to bias the collection in thedirection of making sure that at least for theWordNet seed adjectives a large number of in-stances are present even for adjectives that wouldhave otherwise a very low frequency in a properlybalanced corpus.Throughout the paper we will use the Wikipediacorpus as the main data collection for thepresentation of the analysis, and we will use theWeb corpus as a validation set, to assess thestability and reliability of the results obtained onthe Wikipedia corpus.3 Theoretical backgroundWe partition the orthographically defined class ofcomplex adjectives in morphological categoriesdefined by a variable part and a base generator.
Forexample ?X-free?
is a morphological category thatspecifies that the base generator -free can be com-bined with other words to form complex adjectivessuch as risk-free, toll-free, gluten-free, etc.
Thetwo corpora are used to analyze and quantify howdifferent degrees of linguistic creativity are exhib-ited by different classes of complex adjectives.
Wewill show that this yields a ranking of complexadjective types along a continuum going from highproductivity to lexicalized forms.
Specifically, wecharacterize the linguistic creativity of complexadjectives through three distinct and complemen-tary measures of morphological productivity, fol-lowing Baayen (1993, 2006) and his notation:2 http://developer.yahoo.com/search/boss.3 http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/tagger.shtml.realized productivity, expanding productivity, andpotential productivity.
Now, Evert and L?deling(2001) show that, in the general case, automaticpre-processing of text corpora with current mor-phological analyzers yields results that are toonoisy for Baayen?s measure of productivity to bereliable.
The fact that complex adjectives areorthographically defined by the presence of thehyphen and the components are easy to separateeliminates some of those text-processing problems.By choice, we take at face value the morphologicalparse provided by the hyphen, and therefore we donot run into situations where the phonotactics ob-scures the morphological analysis (e.g., lady vs.ladies), affix ordering (undoable), accidental stringidentity (restaurant does not instantiate the prefixre-), and words generated by creative rather thenmorphological productive processes (youtube).Relying on the orthographical hyphen eases theproblems of automatic morphological pre-processing and makes this a particularly good do-main for using Baayen?s measures.Realized productivity is defined as V=V(C,N),the number of word types (as opposed to word to-kens) of morphological category C in a corpus ofN tokens.
The intuition behind this measure is thatit expresses the sheer size of a morphological cate-gory within a particular corpus.Expanding productivity is defined as P* =V(1,C,N)/V(1,N), where V(1,C,N) is the numberof words of category C that occur only once in acorpus of N tokens, and V(1,N) is the number ofwords of any category that occur only once in acorpus of N tokens.
This measure expresses thecontribution of the morphological category C tothe growth rate of the total vocabulary.
The under-lying intuition is that a morphologically productivecategory contributes to the growth rate of the vo-cabulary of a language, and vocabulary growth ratecan be estimated by the number of hapax legomena(words with frequency 1) in a sufficiently largecorpus.
Hapax legomena in turn are taken to begood estimators of novel linguistic forms.Potential productivity is defined as P =V(1,C,N)/N(C), where N(C) is the total number oftokens in the corpus for a given category C. Thismeasure expresses the growth rate of the vocabu-lary of the category C itself.
In other words, it ex-presses the ease with which a category can beapplied to new words.80These three measures are complementary, in thatthey capture different aspects of morphologicalproductivity that can possibly be at odds with eachother (Baayen 2006).4 AnalysisAt the highest level the two POS-tagged corporaallow us to compare the distribution of complexadjectives with respect to other major syntacticcategories.
In the context of morphological produc-tivity, the vocabulary of a morphological process isthe number of types that the process can potentiallygenerate.
If we understand complex adjective for-mation as a morphological process, we can obtaintheir general vocabulary growth curve by plottingthe number of types against the number of tokensin a corpus.
Figure 1 shows vocabulary growthcurves for nouns, verbs, adjectives and their hy-phenated counterparts for the Wikipedia corpus.Vocabulary Growth0500001000001500002000002500003000003500004000004500005000000 100 200 300Tokens (millions)TypesNounsAdjectivesComplex AdjectivesVerbsHyphenated NounsHyphenated VerbsFigure 1.
Wikipedia vocabulary growth.Complex adjectives exhibit a surprisingly highgrowth rate, which at 250M tokens still doesn?ttend to converge.
The number of types correspond-ing to the final corpus size can be interpreted as anestimate of the realized productivity of complexadjectives as a whole class.We focus the analysis on two-item adjectives,i.e., those of the form ?A-B?
such as cat-like.We describe first the data collection process.
Weprocess each POS-tagged corpus from beginning toend, and for each complex adjective (defined bythe tag JJ and the presence of a hyphen), we gener-ate all the possible categories by replacing in turneach item with a variable.
So cat-like yields thetwo possible categories ?cat-X?
and ?X-like?
; day-to-day yields ?X-to-day?, ?day-X-day?, ?day-to-X?and the special case ?X-to-X?, where the two sideitems are identical.
Then for each category wecount the number of types in that category and thenumber of tokens for each type, including hapaxlegomena.
So the category ?X-like?
includes thetypes dog-like, cat-like, mouse-like, etc., and eachtype is instantiated by a certain number of tokens(including types instantiated by exactly 1 token).
Inthis way we obtain the basic counts that are neededto compute the three measures of productivity in-troduced above.
Once these measures are obtained,all morphological categories (such as ?X-like?)
canbe sorted into three productivity rankings corre-sponding to the three measures.Of the three measures, realized and expandingproductivity are by design directly dependent oncorpus size, whereas potential productivity is de-pendent on the relative ratio of morphologicalcategories but not directly on corpus size.
This en-tails that, especially for the first two measures,productivity rankings obtained on a corpus of aparticular size are not necessarily significant, inthat productivity rankings obtained on corpora ofdifferent sizes could be different.Realized and expanding productivity are af-fected in different ways by corpus size.
Everythingelse being equal, realized productivity estimateswill be more reliable with larger corpora.
Expand-ing productivity is based on the assumption thathapax legomena (i.e., rare words with the lowestfrequency in a corpus) are good estimators of mor-phological productivity.
Rare words include vari-ous subtypes: misspellings, proper names, foreignwords, words from different registers or genresthan those represented in the corpus, new wordsgenerated by non-regular creative processes, andnew words generated by morphologically produc-tive processes.
In a ?small?
corpus, hapax le-gomena will include many words that do not fall inany of categories above, but just happen to be rela-tively uncommon words.
As corpus size increases,uncommon words have a chance to occur moreoften, and the proportion of true morphologicalneologisms among hapaxes increases.Given the dependency on corpus size, the ques-tion arises of how reliable productivity rankingsare that haven been obtained for a specific corpus.In order to assess rankings reliability, we dividedboth the Wikipedia and Web corpus into 20 chunksof the same size, and then we added them up oneafter the other, essentially obtaining 20 corpora of81increasing size for each of the two original textcollections.
Finally for each intermediate corpuswe recomputed the productivity measures andrankings based on them.
At this point we canmeasure the stability of the final productivity rank-ing for a given corpus by comparing it with each ofthe intermediate rankings using Spearman?s rankcorrelation coefficient.Expanding Productivity, Wikipedia00.20.40.60.811.20 50 100 150 200 250 300Tokens (millions)Spearman'srhoTop 100Top 50Top 25Figure 2.
Expanding productivity stability, WikipediaRealized Productivity, Wikipedia00.20.40.60.811.20 50 100 150 200 250 300Tokens (millions)Spearman'srhoTop 100Top 50Top 25Figure 3.
Realized productivity stability, WikipediaPlotting corpus size against Spearman?s ?
coef-ficient reveals that rankings for realized and ex-panding productivity in both the Wikipedia corpusand the Web corpus are very stable.
For example,for expanding productivity in the Wikipedia corpusthe ranking of the top 20 complex adjectives doesnot change any more after the first 5M corpuschunk.
Figures 2 and 3 show how Spearman?s co-efficient between the full Wikipedia corpus andeach of the 19 sub-corpora varies as a function ofcorpus size for the top 25, 50 and 100 adjectives.Curves for the Web corpus are similar.As corpus size continues to increase, a largerand larger portion of the rankings stabilizes, sug-gesting that realized and expanding productivitycapture substantial properties of the language ofwhich the Wikipedia corpus and the Web corpusare respectively representative.The dependency of productivity rankings on aspecific corpus is a reminder that another impor-tant factor that has been observed to affect linguis-tic creativity as expressed by morphologicalproductivity is register and genre variation.
In thiscontext we are using two corpora that are represen-tative of different types of language, and couldtherefore have substantially different rankings.However, it turns out that Spearman?s rank correla-tion between the full size of the Wikipedia andWeb corpus for both realized and expanding pro-ductivity rankings is quite strong (see Table 1).Rankings Realized ExpandingTop 5 1 0.9Top 10 0.91515 0.94545Top 20 0.85939 0.70601Top 25 0.80346 0.665Top 50 0.64998 0.58909Top 100 0.64309 0.62732Table 1: Spearman?s correlation between productivityrankings for Wikipedia and Web corpusThe high Spearman?s correlation values confirmthe stability of reliability of realized and expandingproductivity rankings across different corpora.The next question is to what extent productivityrankings based on different measures correlatewith each other.
We consider first the relationshipbetween realized and expanding productivity.
Thetwo notions focus by design on different aspects ofmorphological productivity: realized productivityis oriented towards the ?present?
: a morphologicalprocess may be common to many existing wordtypes, but might have no ability to be applied togenerate new words.
Baayen (1993) also refers toit as ?extent of use?.
Expanding productivity is in-tended to assess the rate at which a morphologicalprocess is expanding in the language.
A morpho-logical process may be able to spread quickly interms of its ability to generate new words, and yetnot be very common in the general language.In order to quantify the degree of agreement be-tween realized and expanding productivity forcomplex adjectives we computed Spearman?s rankcorrelation coefficient between pairs of productiv-ity rankings (for the top 100 adjectives) at each ofthe intermediate corpus sizes described above, forboth the Wikipedia and Web corpus.Figure 4 shows that for complex adjectives inthe Wikipedia corpus (the graph is similar for the82Web corpus) the correlation between realized andexpanding productivity is very strong, the value of?
being constantly around 0.9 from the very begin-ning, therefore independently of corpus size.
Wecan interpret this fact as suggesting that the class ofcomplex adjectives is overall a dynamic class, inthe sense that its members, even the most estab-lished (i.e., those with high realized productivity),continue to expand in the language and to allowspeakers to easily create new words.
Table 2 showsthe top 20 complex adjectives for both realized andexpanding productivity.Productivity Rankings Correlation, Wikipedia-1.5-1-0.500.511.50 100 200 300Tokens (millions)Spearman'srho Realized -ExpandingRealized -PotentialExpanding- PotentialFigure 4: Productivity Rankings Correlation for theWikipedia corpus, top 100 complex adjectives.Figure 4 also shows that Spearman?s correlationof both realized and expanding productivity withrespect to potential productivity is significantlyweaker.
It is important to note that in the case ofpotential productivity we arbitrarily chose to re-quire that the total number of tokens in the corpusfor a given morphological category (the denomina-tor of the potential productivity formula) be at least100.
We will show later that choosing a high value,(such as 100) for this factor indeed increases thestrength of the correlation between potential pro-ductivity and the other two types.
With low valuesthe correlation coefficient is closer or equal to ?1.We are now going to discuss how rankings forpotential productivity (and, consequently, theirdegree of correlation with realized and expandingproductivity) vary with the choice of the minimumthreshold for the denominator value of the formulaP = V(1,C,N)/N(C).In general the situation for potential productivityis quite a different.
On one hand it doesn?t dependdirectly on corpus size like the other two measures.On the other hand, its definition as the ratio of ha-pax legomena of a morphological category withrespect to all tokens of that category makes it sus-ceptible to frequency effects.
If a corpus is toosmall or a morphological category is fairly rare thismeasure will overestimate the productivity of lowfrequency items.
In the extreme case, a morpho-logical category instantiated by exactly one typethat occurs exactly once in the corpus will get apotential productivity value of 1, the highest possi-ble.Wikipedia productivity rankingsRealized Expanding1.non-X 2.53E-05 1.non-X 0.0143882.X-based 1.63E-05 2.X-based 0.0096943.X-like 1.49E-05 3.X-like 0.009434.anti-X 9.59E-06 4.anti-X 0.0058755.pre-X 8.00E-06 5.pre-X 0.0050016.X-style 6.58E-06 6.X-style 0.0048097.X-related 6.38E-06 7.X-related 0.0043958.X-type 5.36E-06 8.X-type 0.0043869.post-X 5.35E-06 9.post-X 0.00344310.self-X 4.23E-06 10.then-X 0.00238111.semi-X 3.78E-06 11.semi-X 0.0022412.multi-X 3.73E-06 12.self-X 0.00219713.re-X 3.64E-06 13.ex-X 0.00211614.then-X 3.42E-06 14.X-oriented 0.00208215.pro-X 3.41E-06 15.re-X 0.00207816.X-oriented 3.22E-06 16.pro-X 0.00202217.ex-X 2.97E-06 17.un-X 0.00193718.single-X 2.95E-06 18.multi-X 0.00185219.two-X 2.90E-06 19.X-only 0.00181320.high-X 2.78E-06 20.half-X 0.001604Table 2: Wikipedia rankings forrealized and expanding productivity.The notion of potential productivity is oftenused, especially in Baayen?s work, in a deductivesetting: typically a relatively small number of deri-vational morphemes is selected, and an in-depthanalysis is carried out, for example assessing intui-tive productivity rankings against those obtainedfrom corpus statistics.
The goal is often to achievehigh explanatory depth, integrating for examplemental processing and socio-linguistic factors.
Inthis context the target morphemes are typicallyfairly common in the language, and a sufficientlylarge corpus will provide a sufficiently large sam-ple of each morphological category so that the fre-quency effects mentioned above are negligible.On the other hand, the setting of the work pre-sented in this paper is inductive in nature, in that,by capitalizing on the easy identification of com-plex adjectives thanks to the orthography, we aimat an exploratory characterization of a large classof morphological categories.83In practice, in the large-scale scale setting of thepresent work, frequency effects have a significantconsequence on how potential productivity valuesare computed, and on the rankings that derive fromthem.
For the Wikipedia corpus 49.36% (40223out of 81481) of the complex adjective morpho-logical categories have only 1 type with 1 token.For example the category ?X-distracted?
(based ona past participle like the much more common cate-gory ?X-controlled?, which has types such as com-puter-controlled, electronically-controlled, etc.
)has only the type easily-distracted, which occursonly once in the corpus.
By blindly applying theformula V(1,C,N)/N(C), we would conclude thatcomplex adjectives that occur only once have thehighest potential productivity (1/1=1), which runscounter to intuition.One option here would be to try to extrapolatethe value of the potential productivity measurewith respect to larger corpus sizes, using statisticalmodels (LNRE models, for ?Large Number of RareEvents?
models) that are appropriate for the Zip-fian properties of word frequency distributions, asdone in Baayen (2001).
However, Evert andL?deling (2001) provide a detailed analysis of thespecific problems encountered in automatic pre-processing of large amounts of textual data, andconclude that in the general case automatic toolsdeliver results that are too noisy to yield reliableextrapolations of potential productivity measures.For this reason we choose instead to focus onthe two existing corpora and explore how potentialproductivity measures vary when constraints areimposed on the minimum number of tokens thatinstantiate the morphological category whose po-tential productivity we want to measure.We compute potential productivity measures forthe full Wikipedia corpus by setting a minimumthreshold for the number of tokens that instantiatemorphological categories, starting from 0 (no con-straint) and proceeding in increments of 5 up to100.
For each threshold level we derive productiv-ity rankings.We consider first a variant on the notion of sta-bility of the productivity ranking by computingSpearman?s rank correlation between the rankingobtained when setting the minimum thresholdvalue to 100 and each of the rankings obtained atthe 5-increment interval, shown in Figure 5.Figure 5 visualizes how frequency effects im-pact the stability of potential productivity rankings.When the minimum threshold is very low (0 or thefirst few increments above 0), productivity rank-ings are extremely unstable, to the point that thecorrelation is negative with respect to the finalranking based on the highest threshold value (100).This is due to the fact that at low thresholds manycategories have productivity 1, since all the typesfor those categories are instantiated by exactly 1token.
Because no attempt is made to add a secondsort order (which could be for example the numberof types) to the productivity value, the top portionof the ranking is basically random, since there canbe hundreds of categories with productivity 1.However, as the constraint on the minimumthreshold becomes increasingly stronger, rankingstend to stabilize.
For the last few thresholds valuesthe rankings at the highest positions are very simi-lar.
For the threshold value 100 the ranking isshown in Table 3.Potential Productivity, Wikipedia-1.5-1-0.500.511.50 20 40 60 80 100 120Minimum threshold levelSpearman'srhoTop 100Top 50Top 25Figure 5: Potential productivity stability as a function ofthreshold level, on the Wikipedia corpus.A simple visual comparison between Table 3and Table 2 shows that complex adjectives withthe highest potential productivity are very differentfrom those with the highest realized and expandingproductivity.The main qualitative impression is that adjec-tives with high potential productivity seem to ex-emplify patterns that are grammatically andcompositionally very transparent.
There are manycategories based on adverbs (?partially-X?)
andpast participles (?X-obsessed?).
These patternscould indeed be written out as two separate words(with a space instead of the hyphen) forming a syn-tactic adjective phrase.
On the other hand, adjec-tives with high realized and expanding productivityseem to exemplify patterns that tend towards lexi-calization.
Patterns like ?anti-X?, ?pre-X?, ?post-X?,?re-X?, ?semi-X?, ?multi-X?
could be indeed written84out as a single word that is syntactically an adjec-tive4.
In other words, we could suggest that poten-tial productivity might correlate with the earlystages of a lexicalization process, and realized andexpanding productivity might correlate with themore advanced ones.
In this paper we will notelaborate this suggestion any further, and leave itfor future work.Wikipedia potential productivity rankings1.X-ish 0.735849 11.X-wearing 0.476192.almost-X 0.649123 12.X-penned 0.4513273.easily-X 0.613208 13.un-X 0.4510014.already-X 0.581522 14.X-centric 0.4436625.X-obsessed 0.529412 15.nearly-X 0.4423086.partially-X 0.526786 16.X-kilometer 0.4411767.X-focused 0.508197 17.X-associated 0.4372298.X-less 0.48913 18.X-capable 0.4340669.X-inspired 0.48537 19.previously-X 0.42790710.micro-X 0.481081 20.mini-X 0.42449Table 3: Potential productivity rankings for the Wikipe-dia corpus, based the threshold value 100.We consider now another angle of the relation-ship between potential productivity on one handand realized and expanding productivity on theother.
Using the same rankings obtained by vary-ing minimum threshold for the number of tokensthat instantiate morphological categories, we calcu-late the Spearman?s rank correlation of each poten-tial productivity ranking at every incrementinterval with respect to correspondent rankings forrealized and expanding productivity on the fullWikipedia corpus.Figure 6 shows that no matter how we set theminimum threshold level, rankings for potentialproductivity appear to be significantly differentwith respect to the rankings for realized and ex-panding productivity, and at least for the size of theWikipedia corpus the correlation remains stronglynegative.A slight upward trend is detectable though, andthis corresponds to the fact that setting the mini-mum threshold value to 100 increases somewhatthe strength of the correlation between potentialproductivity and the other two types as corpus sizeincreases (as we discussed in regard to Figure 4).4 The occurrence of single orthographic word variant can beconstrued as a signal of lexicalization for complex adjectives,but not in the general case, as demonstrated by the the ortho-graphic integrity of words within idioms.Indeed, the values of ?
at the rightmost edge of therespective curves in Figures 4 and 6 are the same,since they corresponds to the rank correlationamong productivity rankings for the full Wikipediacorpus with minimum threshold value set to 100.We can interpret this slight upward trend as a con-sequence of the mitigation of frequency effects(which typically affect potential productivity rank-ings, as discussed above) brought about by theraising of the minimum threshold level.Potential productivity rankings correlation-1.02-1-0.98-0.96-0.94-0.92-0.9-0.88-0.860 50 100 150Minimum threshold levelSpearman'srhoRealized - PotentialExpanding -PotentialFigure 6.
Potential productivity rankings correlation as afunction of minimum threshold level in WikipediaThis behavior highlights the fact that, comparedto the other two measures, potential productivityfocuses by design on a significantly different facetof the notion of morphological productivity.
Poten-tial productivity attempts to capture in a simpleformula the ability of a morphological category tocontinue to enable speakers to generate new words.It is intended to characterize a morphological cate-gory in terms of the number of potential words thatcan still be created in that category.
Thus it couldbe the case that a morphological category is wellestablished in the language (realized productivity)and is expanding (expanding productivity), butdoes not have much potential for further expansion(potential productivity).In order to explore these scenarios, we comparethe three measures for the specific morphologicalpattern ?non-X?, which has both the highest real-ized and expanding productivity for all the 19 in-termediate corpus slices, and for the full corpussize (both for the Wikipedia corpus and for theWeb corpus).
On the Wikipedia full corpus thiscategory yields 6444 distinct types for a total of47489 tokens (including 4496 hapax legomena),ranging from very frequent types such as non-profit (2268 tokens), non-existent (619 tokens),85non-standard (501 tokens) to hapax legomena suchas non-ratified (1 token), non-amphibious (1 to-ken), etc.
Specifically, the fact that ?non-X?
has thehighest expanding productivity means that it hasmore hapax legomena than any other morphologi-cal pattern.
This notwithstanding, the fact that itsdifferent types yield a very large number of tokensresults in a very low potential productivity value of?non-X?
(on the full corpus).
Setting the minimumthreshold value at 50, the average potential produc-tivity rank for ?non-X?
steadily gets worse as cor-pus size increases from rank 24 for the firstintermediate corpus to rank 2404 for the full sizecorpus, in stark contrast to the rank position 1 ithas for realized and expanding productivity (weuse ranks since absolute productivity values fordifferent measures cannot be compared to eachother).On the other hand, the pattern ?X-ish?
which hasthe highest potential productivity when the mini-mum threshold is set to 100 exhibits radically dif-ferent behavior.
On the Wikipedia corpus thiscategory yields 99 distinct types for a total of only112 tokens, but including 87 hapax legomena.
Themost productive types are cartoon-ish and blue-ish(with 3 tokens each) and 40-ish, blues-ish, vanity-ish, place-ish, bully-ish, punk-ish, tree-ish, white-ish, noir-ish (with 2 tokens each).
All other typeshave 1 token each.
The high proportion of hapaxlegomena pushes ?X-ish?
at the very top of the po-tential productivity ranking.
As is expected, therealized and expanding productivity ranks aremuch lower.
However, they do increase steadilyfrom rank 5204 and 3990 respectively for the firstintermediate corpus to rank 403 and 242 for thefull size corpus.
We can interpret this trend as aconsequence of the fact that for the category ?X-ish?
almost every new token is also both a newtype and a new hapax legomena.
The effect of thisis that it slows down the rate of decrease of therealized and expanding productivity measures(which always decrease inversely to corpus size),thus lifting the rank of ?X-ish?
above that of com-petitors as corpus size increases.Note that from a linguistic point of view, thehyphen in potential productivity patterns seems tosignal the awareness of the writer/speaker regard-ing the ?novelty?
of the complex adjective, along acontinuum from compounding (?almost-X?, ?X-capable?)
to more established derivational mor-phemes (?X-ish?, ?un-X?
).5 Conclusions and future work.A general trend has consistently emergedthroughout the analysis, as illustrated by the oppo-site properties of the categories ?non-X?
and ?X-ish?.
We have shown from a variety of angles howrealized and expanding productivity measures tendto capture closely related aspects of morphologicalproductivity, both in terms of the specific wordsand global correlation between productivity rank-ings.
On the other hand, potential productivity con-sistently exhibits clearly different and indeedopposite properties compared to the other two,again both in terms of the specific words that scorethe highest values and in terms of productivityranking correlation patterns.The most significant question to be addressednext is the extent to which the above-mentionedconclusions about the relationships among differ-ent types of morphological productivity carry overto other segments of language.Regarding complex adjectives, future work willfocus in more detail on their internal typology,specifically considering the extent to which theyimpose selectional restrictions (whether morpho-syntactic or semantic in nature) on the componentassociated with the base generator of a category,and the correlation patterns between such con-straints and the three types of morphological pro-ductivity.ReferencesR.
Harald Baayen.
1993.
On Frequency, Transparency,and Productivity.
In: Geert E. Booij and Jaap vanMarle (eds).
Yearbook of Morphology.
Dordrecht:Kluwer Academic Publishers, 181-208.R.
Harald Baayen.
2001.
Word Frequency Distributions.Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.R.
Harald Baayen.
2006.
Corpus Linguistics in Mor-phology: Morphological Productivity.
In: L?deling,A.
and M. Kyt?
(eds).
Corpus Linguistics.
An Inter-national Handbook.
New York: Mouton De Gruyter.Stefan Evert and Anke L?deling.
2001.
MeasuringMorphological Productivity: Is Automatic Preproc-essing Sufficient?
In: Proceedings of the Corpus Lin-guistics 2001 Conference, 167-175.Karo Moilanen and Stephen Pulman.
2008.
The Good,the Bad, and the Unknown: Morphosyllabic Senti-ment Tagging of Unseen Words.
In: Proceedings ofACL 2008.86
