Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on the Interaction between Linguistics and Computational Linguistics, pages 33?39,Athens, Greece, 30 March, 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsParsed Corpora for LinguisticsGertjan van NoordUniversity of GroningenG.J.M.van.noord@rug.nlGosse BoumaUniversity of GroningenG.Bouma@rug.nlAbstractKnowledge-based parsers are now accu-rate, fast and robust enough to be used toobtain syntactic annotations for very largecorpora fully automatically.
We argue thatsuch parsed corpora are an interesting newresource for linguists.
The argument isillustrated by means of a number of re-cent results which were established withthe help of parsed corpora.1 IntroductionOnce upon a time, knowledge-based parsers wereslow, inaccurate and fragile.
This is no longertrue.
In the last decade, enormous improvementshave been achieved in this area.
Parsers based onconstraint-based formalisms such as HPSG, LFG,and CCG are now fast enough for many appli-cations; they are robust; and they perform muchmore accurately than previously by incorporat-ing, typically, a statistical disambiguation compo-nent.
As a consequence, such parsers now obtaincompetitive, if not superior, performance.
Zae-nen (2004), for instance, points out that the (LFG-based) XLE parser is fast, has a statistical disam-biguation component, and is robust, and thus al-lows full parsing to be incorporated in many appli-cations.
Clark and Curran (2007) show that bothaccurate and highly efficient parsing is possibleusing a CCG.As a consequence of this development, massiveamounts of parsed sentences now become avail-able.
Such large collections of syntactically an-notated but not manually verified syntactic analy-ses are a very useful resource for many purposes.In this position paper we focus on one purpose:linguistic analysis.
Our claim is, that very largeparsed corpora are an important resource for lin-guists.
Such very large parsed corpora can beused to search systematically for specific infre-quent syntactic configurations of interest, and alsoto obtain quantitative data about specific syntac-tic configurations.
Although parsed corpora obvi-ously contain a certain amount of noise, for manyapplications the abundant size of these corporacompensates for this.In this paper, we illustrate our position by a nu-mer of recent linguistic studies in which very largecorpora of Dutch have been employed, whichwere syntactically annotated by the freely avail-able Alpino parser (Bouma et al, 2001; van No-ord, 2006).The Alpino system incorporates a linguisticallymotivated, wide-coverage grammar for Dutch inthe tradition of HPSG.
It consists of over 800grammar rules and a large lexicon of over 300,000lexemes (including very many person names, geo-graphical names, and organization names) and var-ious rules to recognize special constructs such asnamed entities, temporal expressions, etc.
Sincewe use Alpino to parse large amounts of data, itis crucial that the parser is capable to treat sen-tences with unknown words.
A large set of heuris-tics have been implemented carefully to deal withunknown words and word sequences.Based on the categories assigned to words, andthe set of grammar rules compiled from the HPSGgrammar, a left-corner parser finds the set of allparses, and stores this set compactly in a packedparse forest.
All parses are rooted by an instanceof the top category, which is a category that gen-eralizes over all maximal projections (S, NP, VP,ADVP, AP, PP and some others).
If there is noparse covering the complete input, the parser findsall parses for each substring.
In such cases, therobustness component will then select the best se-quence of non-overlapping parses (i.e., maximalprojections) from this set.In order to select the best parse from the parseforest, a best-first search algorithm is applied.
Thealgorithm consults a Maximum Entropy disam-biguation model to judge the quality of (partial)33parses.
The disambiguation model is trained onthe manually verified Alpino treebank (about 7100sentences from newspaper texts).Although Alpino is not a dependency grammarin the traditional sense, dependency structures aregenerated by the lexicon and grammar rules asthe value of a dedicated feature.
The dependencystructures are based on CGN (Corpus GesprokenNederlands, Corpus of Spoken Dutch) (Hoekstraet al, 2003), D-Coi and LASSY (van Noord et al,2006).Dependency structures are stored in XML.
Ad-vantages of the use of XML include the avail-ability of general purpose search and visualiza-tion software.
For instance, we exploit XPATH(standard XML query language) to search in largesets of dependency structures, and Xquery to ex-tract information from such large sets of depen-dency structures (Bouma and Kloosterman, 2002;Bouma and Kloosterman, 2007).2 Extraposition of comparative objectsout of topicThe first illustration of our thesis that parsed cor-pora provide an interesting new resource for lin-guists, constitutes more of an anecdote than a sys-tematic study.
We include the example, presentedearlier in van Noord (2009), because it is fairlyeasy to explain, and because it was how we be-came aware ourselves of the potential of parsedcorpora for the purpose of linguistics.In van der Beek et al (2002), the grammar un-derlying the Alpino parser is presented in some de-tail.
As an example of how the various specificrules of the grammar interact with the more gen-eral principles, the analysis of comparatives andthe interaction with generic principles for (right-ward) extraposition is illustrated.
In short, com-paratives such as comparative adjectives and theadverb anders as in the following example (1)license corresponding comparative phrases (suchas phrases headed by dan (than)) by means of afeature which percolates according to the extrapo-sition principle.
The analysis is illustrated in fig-ure 1.
(1) .
.
.
niks.
.
.
nothinganderselsedoendodanthanalmaarcontinuouslyruwrawmateriaalmaterialverzamelencollectdo nothing else but collect raw material (cdbl-7)Figure 2: Dependency structure for Lager was dekoers dan gisterenAn anonymous reviewer criticized the anal-ysis, because the extraposition principle wouldalso allow the rightward extraction of comparativephrases licensed by comparatives in topic position.The extraposition principle would have to allowfor this in the light of examples such as(2) DeThevraagquestionisisgerechtvaardigdjustifiedwaaromwhydetheregeringgovernmentnietsnothingdoetdoesThe question is justified why the govermentdoes not actHowever, the reviewer claimed that comparativephrases cannot be extraposed out of topic, as ex-amples such as the following indicate:(3) ?LagerLowerwaswasdethekoersratedanthangisterenyesterdayThe rate never was lower than yesterdaySince the Alpino grammar allows such cases, itis possible to investigate if genuine examples ofthis type occur in parsed corpora.
In order to un-derstand how we can specify a search query forsuch cases, it is instructive to consider the de-pendency structure assigned to such examples infigure 2.
As can be observed in the dependencygraph, the left-right order of nodes does not rep-resent the left-right ordering in the sentence.
Theword-order of words and phrases is indicated withXML attributes begin and end (not shown in fig-ure 2) which indicate for each node the begin andend position in the sentence respectively.The following XPATH query enumerates all ex-34vproj[extra ?
?
?vproj[extra ?ompp[dan??
?np[extra ?ompp[dan??
?nniksadj-s[extra ?ompp[dan??
?andersvdoenompp[dan?omp[dan?dansbaralmaar ... verzamelenFigure 1: Derivation of extraposed comparative objectamples of extraposition of comparative phrasesout of topic.
We can then inspect the resulting listto check whether the examples are genuine.//node[@cat="smain"andnode[node[@rel="obcomp"]/@end>../node[@rel="hd"]/@begin]/@begin = @begin]The query can be read as: find root sentencesin which there is a daughter node, which itself hasa daughter node with relation label obcomp (thelabel used for comparative complements).
Thedaughter node should begin at the same positionas the root sentence.
Finally, the end position ofthe obcomp node must be larger than the end po-sition of the head of the root sentence (i.e.
the finiteverb).In addition to many mis-parsed sentences, wefound quite a few genuine cases.
A mis-parsecan for instance occur if a sentence contains twopotential licensers for the comparative phrase, asin the following example in which verder can bewrongly analysed as a comparative adjective.
(4) VerderFurtherwilwantikIdatthatmijnmybackhandbackhandevenjust-asgoedgoodwordtbecomesalsasmijnmyforehandforehandFurthermore, I want my backhand to becomeas good as my forehandMore interestingly for the present discussion arethe examples which were parsed correctly.
Notonly do we find such examples, but informantsagree that nothing is wrong with such cases.
Someexamples are listed in figure 3.
It is striking thatmany examples involve the comparative adjectivesliever and eerder.
Also, the list involves exam-ples where adverbials such as zo, zozeer, zoveel arerelated with an extraposed subordinate sentenceheaded by dat which according to the annotationguidelines are also treated as comparative comple-ments.The examples show that at least in some cases,the possibility of extraposition of comparativecomplements out of topic must be allowed; we hy-pothesize that the acceptability of such cases is nota binary decision, but rather a preference whichdepends on the choice of comparative on the onehand, and the heaviness of the comparative com-plement on the other hand.For the purpose of this paper, we hope to haveillustrated how parsed corpora can be helpful tofind new empirical evidence for fairly complicatedand suble linguistic issues.
Note that for a con-struction of this type, manually verified treebanksare much too small.
We estimated that it takesabout 5 million words to find a single, good, ex-ample.
It appears unrealistic to assume that tree-banks of the required order of magnitude of tensof millions of words will become available soon.3 Frequency versus ComplexityOur second illustration is of a different nature, andtaken from a study related to agrammatic Broca?saphasia.In Bastiaanse et al (to appear), potential causesare discussed of the problems that patients suffer-ing from agrammatic Broca?s aphasia encounter.The Derived Order Problem Hypothesis (Basti-aanse and van Zonneveld, 2005) assumes that thelinguistic representations of agrammatic patientsare intact, but due to processing disorders, somerepresentations are harder to retrieve than oth-35(5) LieverRatherbetaaldenpaidwerkgeversemployerseena((hogehigh))verzekeringspremieinsurance-fee,,danthanopgescheeptlefttetozittenbemetwithnietnotvolwaardigfullyfunctionerendefunctioningmedewerkersemployeesRather, employers pay a high insurance fee, than be left with not fully functioning employees (Alge-meen Dagblad, January 15, 1999)(6) BeterBetterisishetittetozorgenensuredatthatziekenhuizenhospitalshuntheirverplichtingenobligationsvolgensaccording-todethehuidigecurrentBOPZBOPZgaanstartnakomenmeet,,danthandetherechtenrightsvanofpati??
?12 tenpatientsnogyetverderfurtheraanPARTtetotastenviolateIt is better to ensure that hospitals start to meet their obligations according to the current BOZP,than to violate rights of patients even further (Algemeen Dagblad, August 18, 2001)(7) DusSowatwhatanderselsekondencoulddetheLPF?ersLPF-representativesdetheafgelopenlastweekweekdanthanzichselfstilquiethoudenkeep?
?What else could the LPF-representatives do last week , than keep quiet?
(Volkskrant June 1, 2002)(8) SnellerFasterkennenknowzetheyhuntheirtafelstablesvanofvermenigvuldigingmultiplicationdanthandethehandelingenactsvanofdethegroetgreetingThey know the tables of multiplication faster than the acts of greeting (De Morgen March 27, 2006)Figure 3: Some genuine examples of extraposition of comparative objects from topic.
The examples areidentified automatically using an XPATH query applied to a large parsed corpus.ers, due to differences in linguistic complexity.This hypothesis thus assumes that agrammatic pa-tients have difficulty with constructions of higherlinguistic complexity.
An alternative hypothesisstates, that agrammatic patients have more diffi-culty with linguistic constructions of lower fre-quency.In order to compare the two hypotheses, Bas-tiaanse et al perform three corpus studies.
Inthree earlier experimental studies it was found thatagrammatic patients have more difficulty with (a)finite verbs in verb-second position versus finiteverbs in verb-final position; (b) scrambled directobjects versus non-scrambled direct objects; and(c) transitive verbs used as unaccusative versustransitive verbs used as transitive.The three pairs of constructions are illustratedas follows.
(9) a. dethejongenboydiewhoeenaboekbookleestreadsthe boy who reads a bookb.
dethejongenboyleestreadseenaboekbookthe boy reads a book(10) a. ditthisisisdethejongenboydiewhovandaagtodayhettheboekbookleestreadsthis is the boy who reads the book todayb.
ditthisisisdethejongenboydiewhohettheboekbookvandaagtodayleestreadsthis is the boy who reads the book today(11) a. dethejongenboybreektbreakshettheglasglassthe boy breaks the glassb.
hettheglasglassbreektbreaksthe glass breaksIn each of the three cases, corpus data is usedto estimate the frequency of both syntactic con-figurations.
Two corpora were used: the manu-ally verified syntactically annotated CGN corpus(spoken language, approx.
1M words), and the theautomatically parsed TwNC corpus (Ordelman etal., 2007) (the newspapers up to 2001, a parsedcorpus of 300 million words).
For the first twoexperiments, manual inspection revealed that theparsed corpus material was of high enough qualityto be used directly.
Furthermore, the relevant con-structions are highly frequent, and thus even rela-tively small corpora (such as the syntactically an-36notated part of CGN) provide sufficient data.
Forthe third experiment (unaccusative versus transi-tive usage of verbs), an additional layer of manualverification was used, and furthermore, as the sub-categorization frequencies of individual verbs areestimated, the full TwNC was searched in order toobtain reasonably reliable estimates.The outcome of the three experiments was thesame in each case: frequency information cannotexplain the difficulty encountered by agrammaticpatients.
Verb-second is more frequent than verb-final word order for lexical verbs and transitivelexical verbs (the verbs used in the experimentswere all transitive).
Finite verbs occur slightlymore often in verb-second position than in verb-final position, but the difference is quite small.Scrambled word order is more frequent than thebasic word order.
The difference between the twocorpora (CGN and TwNC) is quite small in bothcases.
Figure 4 gives an overview of the numberof occurrences of the transitive and unaccusativeuse of the verbs used in the experiments in thefull TwNC.
The data suggest that the relative fre-quency of unaccusative depends strongly on theverb, but that it is not in general the case that theunaccusative use is less frequent than the transitiveuse.The three ?difficult?
constructions used in theexperiments with aphasia patients are by no meansinfrequent in Dutch.
The authors conclude that thehypothesis that processing difficulties are corre-lated with higher linguistic complexity cannot befalsified by an appeal to frequency.What is interesting for the purposes of the cur-rent paper, is that parsed corpora are used to es-timate frequencies of syntactic constructions, andthat these are used to support claims about the roleof linguistic complexity in processing difficultiesof aphasia patients.
Also note that figure 4 showsthat even in a large (300M word) corpus, the num-ber of occurrences of a specific verb used with aspecific valency frame can be quite small.
Thus,it is unlikely that reliable frequency estimates canbe obtained for these cases from manually verifiedtreebanks.Roland et al (2007) report on closely relatedwork for English.
In particular, they give fre-quency counts for a range of syntactic construc-tions in English, and subcategorization frequen-cies for specific verbs.
They demonstrate thatthese frequencies are highly dependent on corpusand genre in a number of cases.
They use their datato verify claims in the psycholinguistic literatureabout the processing of subject vs. object clefts,relative clauses and sentential complements.4 The distribution of zelf and zichzelfAs a further example of the use of parsed corporato further linguistic insights, we consider a recentstudy (Bouma and Spenader, 2009) of the distribu-tion of weak and strong reflexive objects in Dutch.If a verb is used reflexively in Dutch, two formsof the reflexive pronoun are available.
This is il-lustrated for the third person form in the examplesbelow.
(12) BrouwersBrouwersschaamtshameszich/?zichzelfself1/self2voorforzijnhisschrijverschap.writingBrouwers is ashamed of his writing(13) DuitslandGermanyvolgtfollows?zich/zichzelfself1/self2nietnotopPARTalsasEuropeesEuropeankampioen.ChampionGermany does not succeed itself as Euro-pean champion(14) WieWhozich/zichzelfself1/self2nietnotjuistproperlyintroduceert,introduces,valtisaf.outEveryone who does not introduce himselfproperly, is out.The choice between zich and zichzelf depends onthe verb.
Generally three groups of verbs aredistinguished.
Inherent reflexives are claimed tonever occur with a non-reflexive argument, and asa reflexive argument are claimed to use zich exclu-sively, (12).
Non-reflexive verbs seldom, if everoccur with a reflexive argument.
If they do how-ever, they can only take zichzelf as a reflexive ar-gument (13).
Accidental reflexives can be usedwith both zich and zichzelf, (14).
Accidental re-flexive verbs vary widely as to the frequency withwhich they occur with both arguments.
Boumaand Spenader (2009) set out to explain this dis-tribution.The influential theory of Reinhart and Reuland(1993) explains the distribution as the surface real-ization of two different ways of reflexive coding.An accidental reflexive that can be realized with37verb unacc trans# % # %luiden to ring/sound 269 26.6 743 73.4scheuren to rip 332 28.8 819 71.2breken to break 1969 31.2 4341 68.8verbrand to burn 479 43.5 623 56.5oplossen to (dis)solve 296 59.2 204 40.8draaien to turn 2709 59.4 1852 40.6smelten to melt 723 71.4 290 28.6rollen to roll 3500 93.5 244 6.5verdrinken to drown 1397 94.6 80 5.4stuiteren to bounce 334 97.9 7 2.1Figure 4: Estimated number of occurrences in TwNC of unaccusative and transitive uses of Dutch verbswhich may undergo the causative alternationboth zich and zichzelf is actually ambiguous be-tween an inherent reflexive and an accidental re-flexive (which always is realized with zichzelf).An alternative approach is that of Haspelmath(2004), Smits et al (2007), and Hendriks et al(2008), who have claimed that the distribution ofweak vs. strong reflexive object pronouns corre-lates with the proportion of events described bythe verb that are self-directed vs. other-directed.In the course of this investigation, a first inter-esting observation is, that many inherently reflex-ive verbs, which are claimed not to occur withzichzelf, actually often do combine with this pro-noun.
Here are a number of examples (simplifiedfor expository purposes):(15) NederlandNetherlandsmoetmuststoppenstopzichzelfself2opondetheborstchesttetoslaanbeatThe Netherlands must stop beating itself onthe chest(16) HunzeHunzewilwantzichzelfself2nietnotalalltetoozeermuchopondetheborstchestkloppenknockHunze doesn?t want to knock itself on thechest too much(17) ZeTheyverlorenlostzichzelfself2somssometimesininhettacticalgegoochelvariantsmet alerlei tactische variantenThey sometimes lost themselves in tacticalvariantsWith regards to the main hypothesis of theirstudy, (Bouma and Spenader, 2009) use linear re-gression to determine the correlation between re-flexive use of a (non-inherently reflexive) verb andthe relative preference for a weak or strong re-flexive pronoun.
Frequency counts are collectedfrom the parsed TwNC corpus (almost 500 mil-lion words).
They limit the analysis to verbs thatoccur at least 10 times with a reflexive meaningand at least 50 times in total, distinguishing usesby subcategorization frames.
The statistical analy-sis shows a significant correlation, which accountsfor 30% of the variance of the ratio of nonreflexiveover reflexive uses.5 ConclusionKnowledge-based parsers are now accurate, fastand robust enough to be used to obtain syntacticannotations for very large corpora fully automati-cally.
We argued that such parsed corpora are aninteresting new resource for linguists.
The argu-ment is illustrated by means of a number of re-cent results which were established with the helpof huge parsed corpora.Huge parsed corpora are especially crucial (1)to obtain evidence concerning infrequent syntac-tic configurations, and (2) to obtain more reliablequantitative data about particular syntactic config-urations.AcknowledgmentsThis research was carried out in part in thecontext of the STEVIN programme which isfunded by the Dutch and Flemish governments38(http://taalunieversum.org/taal/technologie/stevin/).ReferencesRoelien Bastiaanse and Ron van Zonneveld.
2005.Sentence production with verbs of alternating tran-sitivity in agrammatic Broca?s aphasia.
Journal ofNeurolinguistics, 18(1):57?66, January.Roelien Bastiaanse, Gosse Bouma, and Wendy Post.to appear.
Frequency and linguistic complexity inagrammatic speech production.
Brain and Lan-guage.Gosse Bouma and Geert Kloosterman.
2002.
Query-ing dependency treebanks in XML.
In Proceedingsof the Third international conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC), pages 1686?1691, Gran Canaria, Spain.Gosse Bouma and Geert Kloosterman.
2007.
Miningsyntactically annotated corpora using XQuery.
InProceedings of the Linguistic Annotation Workshop,Prague, June.
ACL.Gosse Bouma and Jennifer Spenader.
2009.
The distri-bution of weak and strong object reflexives in Dutch.In Frank van Eynde, Anette Frank, Koenraad DeSmedt, and Gertjan van Noord, editors, Proceed-ings of the Seventh International Workshop on Tree-banks and Linguistic Theories (TLT 7), number 12in LOT Occasional Series, pages 103?114, Utrecht,The Netherlands.
Netherlands Graduate School ofLinguistics.Gosse Bouma, Gertjan van Noord, and Robert Mal-ouf.
2001.
Wide coverage computational analysisof Dutch.
InW.
Daelemans, K. Sima?an, J. Veenstra,and J. Zavrel, editors, Computational Linguistics inthe Netherlands 2000.S.
Clark and J.R. Curran.
2007.
Wide-Coverage Effi-cient Statistical Parsing with CCG and Log-LinearModels.
Computational Linguistics, 33(4):493?552.Martin Haspelmath.
2004.
A frequentist explanationof some universals of reflexive marking.
Draft of apaper presented at the Workshop on Reciprocals andReflexives, Berlin.Petra Hendriks, Jennifer Spenader, and Erik-Jan Smits.2008.
Frequency-based constraints on reflexiveforms in Dutch.
In Proceedings of the 5th Interna-tional Workshop on Constraints and Language Pro-cessing, pages 33?47, Roskilde, Denmark.Heleen Hoekstra, Michael Moortgat, Bram Renmans,Machteld Schouppe, Ineke Schuurman, and Tonvan der Wouden, 2003.
CGN Syntactische Anno-tatie, December.Roeland Ordelman, Franciska de Jong, Arjan van Hes-sen, and Hendri Hondorp.
2007.
TwNC: a mul-tifaceted Dutch news corpus.
ELRA Newsletter,12(3/4):4?7.Tanya Reinhart and Eric Reuland.
1993.
Reflexivity.Linguistic Inquiry, 24:656?720.Douglas Roland, Frederic Dick, and Jeffrey L. El-man.
2007.
Frequency of basic english grammaticalstructures: A corpus analysis.
Journal of Memoryand Language, 57(3):348?379, October.Erik-Jan Smits, Petra Hendriks, and Jennifer Spenader.2007.
Using very large parsed corpora and judge-ment data to classify verb reflexivity.
In AntonioBranco, editor, Anaphora: Analysis, Algorithms andApplications, pages 77?93, Berlin.
Springer.Leonoor van der Beek, Gosse Bouma, and Gertjan vanNoord.
2002.
Een brede computationele grammat-ica voor het Nederlands.
Nederlandse Taalkunde,7(4):353?374.Gertjan van Noord, Ineke Schuurman, and VincentVandeghinste.
2006.
Syntactic annotation of largecorpora in STEVIN.
In Proceedings of the 5th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC), Genoa, Italy.Gertjan van Noord.
2006.
At Last Parsing Is NowOperational.
In TALN 2006 Verbum Ex Machina,Actes De La 13e Conference sur Le TraitementAutomatique des Langues naturelles, pages 20?42,Leuven.Gertjan van Noord.
2009.
Huge parsed corpora inLassy.
In Frank van Eynde, Anette Frank, Koen-raad De Smedt, and Gertjan van Noord, editors, Pro-ceedings of the Seventh International Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT 7), num-ber 12 in LOT Occasional Series, pages 115?126,Utrecht, The Netherlands.
Netherlands GraduateSchool of Linguistics.Annie Zaenen.
2004. but full parsing is impossible.ELSNEWS, 13(2):9?10.39
