Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , pages 90?94,Athens, Greece, 30 March ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsDeep Linguistic Multilingual Translation and Bilingual DictionariesEric Wehrli, Luka Nerima & Yves ScherrerLATL-Department of LinguisticsUniversity of GenevafEric.Wehrli, Luka.Nerima, Yves.Scherrerg@unige.chAbstractThis paper describes the MulTra project,aiming at the development of an efficientmultilingual translation technology basedon an abstract and generic linguistic modelas well as on object-oriented software de-sign.
In particular, we will address the is-sue of the rapid growth both of the trans-fer modules and of the bilingual databases.For the latter, we will show that a signifi-cant part of bilingual lexical databases canbe derived automatically through transitiv-ity, with corpus validation.1 IntroductionThe goal of the MulTra project is to develop agrammar-based translation model capable of han-dling not just a couple of languages, but poten-tially a large number of languages.
This is notan original goal, but as 50 years of work and in-vestment have shown, the task is by no means aneasy one, and although SMT has shown fast andimpressive results towards it (e.g.
EuroMatrix),we believe that a (principled) grammar-based ap-proach is worth developing, taking advantage ofthe remarkable similarities displayed by languagesat an abstract level of representation.
In the firstphase of this project (2007-2009), our work hasfocused on French, English, German, Italian andSpanish, with preliminary steps towards Greek,Romanian, Russian and Japanese.To evaluate the quality of the (still under devel-opment) system, we decided to join the WMT09translation evaluation with prototypes for the fol-lowing language pairs: English to French, Frenchto English and German to English.
In this shortpaper, we will first give a rough description of theMulTra system architecture and then turn to thedifficult issue of the bilingual dictionaries.The MulTra project relies to a large extent onabstract linguistics, inspired from recent work ingenerative grammar (Chomsky, 1995, Culicover &Jackendoff, 2005, Bresnan, 2001).
The grammarformalism developed for this project is both richenough to express the structural diversity of all thelanguages taken into account, and abstract enoughto capture the generalizations hidden behind ob-vious surface diversity.
At the software level, anobject-oriented design has been used, similar inmany ways to the one adopted for the multilingualparser (cf.
Wehrli, 2007).The rapid growth of the number of transfermodules has often been viewed as a major flawof the transfer model when applied to multilingualtranslation (cf.
Arnold, 2000, Kay, 1997).
This ar-gument, which relies on the fact that the number oftransfer modules and of the corresponding bilin-gual dictionaries increases as a quadratic functionof the number of languages, is considerably weak-ened if one can show that transfer modules canbe made relatively simple and light (cf.
section 2),compared to the analysis and generation modules(whose numbers are a linear function of the num-ber of languages).
Likewise, section 3 will showhow one can drastically reduce the amount of workby deriving bilingual dictionaries by transitivity.2 The architecture of the MulTra systemTo a large extent, this system can be viewed as anextension of the Multilingual Fips parsing project.For one thing, the availability of the ?deep linguis-tic?
Fips parser for the targeted languages is a cru-cial element for the MulTra project; second, theMulTra software design matches the one devel-oped for the multilingual parser.
In both cases, thegoal is to set up a generic system which can be re-defined (through type extension and method rede-finition) to suit the specific needs of, respectively,a particular language or a particular language pair.902.1 MethodologyThe translation algorithm follows the traditionalpattern of a transfer system.
First the inputsentence is parsed by the Fips parser, produc-ing an information-rich phrase-structure repre-sentation with associated predicate-argument rep-resentations.
The parser also identifies multi-word expressions such as idioms and colloca-tions ?
crucial elements for a translation sys-tem (cf.
Seretan & Wehrli, 2006).
The transfermodule maps the source-language abstract repre-sentation into the target-language representation.Given the abstract nature of this level of repre-sentation, the mapping operation is relatively sim-ple and can be sketched as follows: recursivelytraverse the source-language phrase structure inthe order: head, right subconstituents, left sub-constituents.
Lexical transfer (the mapping of asource-language lexical item with an equivalenttarget-language item) occurs at the head-transferlevel (provided the head is not empty) and yieldsa target-language equivalent term often, but by nomeans always, of the same category.
Followingthe projection principle used in the Fips parser, thetarget-language structure is projected on the ba-sis of the lexical item which is its head.
In otherwords, we assume that the lexical head determinesa syntactic projection (or meta-projection).Projections (ie.
constituents) which have beenanalyzed as arguments of a predicate undergoa slightly different transfer process, since theirprecise target-language properties may be inpart determined by the subcategorization fea-tures of the target-language predicate.
To takea simple example, the direct object of theFrench verb regarder in (1a) will be trans-ferred into English as a prepositional phraseheaded by the preposition at, as illustrated in(2a).
This information comes from the lexicaldatabase.
More specifically, the French-Englishbilingual lexicon specifies a correspondence be-tween the French lexeme [VPregarder NP ]and the English lexeme [VPlook [PPat NP ] ].For both sentences, we also illustrate the syntacticstructures as built, respectively, by the parser forthe source sentence and by the translator for thetarget sentence.(1)a.
Paul a regarde?
la voiture.b.
[TP[DPPaul ] a [VPregarde?
[DPla [NPvoiture] ] ] ](2)a. Paul looked at the car.b.
[TP[DPPaul ] [VPlooked [PPat [DPthe [NPcar ] ] ] ] ]2.2 Adding a language to the systemGiven the general model as sketched above, theaddition of a language to the system requires (i) aparser and (ii) a generator.
Then for each languagepair for which that language is concerned, the sys-tem needs (iii) a (potentially empty) language-pairspecific transfer module, and (iv) a bilingual lex-ical database.
The first three components are de-scribed below, while the fourth will be the topic ofsection 3.Parser The Fips multilingual parser is assumed.Adding a new language requires the followingtasks: (i) grammar description in the Fips formal-ism, (ii) redefinition of the language-specific pars-ing methods to suit particular properties of the lan-guage, and (iii) creation of an appropriate lexicaldatabase for the language.Generator Target-language generation is donein a largely generic fashion (as described abovewith the transfer and projection mechanisms).What remains specific in the generation phase isthe selection of the proper morphological form ofa lexical item.Language-pair-specific transfer Transfer fromlanguage A to language B requires no language-pair specification if the language structures of Aand B are isomorphic.
Simplifying a little bit,this happens among closely related languages,such as Spanish and Italian for instance.
Forlanguages which are typologically different, thetransfer module must indicate how the precisemapping is to be done.Consider, for instance, word-order differencessuch as adjectives which are prenominal in Eng-lish and postnominal in French ?
a red car vs.une voiture rouge.
The specific English-Frenchtransfer module specifies that French adjectives,which do not bear the [+prenominal] lexical fea-ture, correspond to right subconstituents (vs. leftsubconstituents) of the head noun.
Other cases aremore complicated, such as the V2 phenomenonin German, pronominal cliticization in Romancelanguages, or even the use of the do auxiliary inEnglish interrogative or negative sentences.
Suchcases are handled by means of specific procedures,91which are in some ways reminiscent of transfor-mation rules of the standard theory of generativegrammar, ie.
rules that can insert, move or evendelete phrase-structure constituents (cf.
Akmajian& Heny, 1975).So far, the languages taken into account inthe MulTra project are those for which the Fipsparser has been well developed, that is English,French, German, Italian and Spanish.
Of the 20potential language pairs five are currently opera-tional (English-French, French-English, German-French, German-English, Italian-French), while 6other pairs are at various stages of development.3 Multilingual lexical database3.1 Overview of the lexical databaseThe lexical database is composed for each lan-guage of (i) a lexicon of words, containing allthe inflected forms of the words of the language,(ii) a lexicon of lexemes, containing the syn-tactic/semantic information of the words (corre-sponding roughly to the entries of a classical dic-tionary) and (iii) a lexicon of collocations (in factmulti-word expressions including collocations andidioms).
We call the lexemes and the collocationsthe lexical items of a language.The bilingual lexical database contains the in-formation necessary for the lexical transfer fromone language to another.
For storage purposes, weuse a relational database management system.
Foreach language pair, the bilingual dictionary is im-plemented as a relational table containing the asso-ciations between lexical items of language A andlexical items of language B.
The bilingual dictio-nary is bi-directional, i.e.
it also associates lexi-cal items of language B with lexical items of lan-guage A.
In addition to these links, the table con-tains transfer information such as translation con-text (eg.
sport, finance, law, etc.
), ranking of thepairs in a one-to-many correspondence, seman-tic descriptors (used for interactive disambigua-tion), argument matching for predicates (mostlyfor verbs).
The table structures are identical forall pairs of languages.Although the bilingual lexicon is bidirectional,it is not symmetrical.
If a word v from lan-guage A has only one translation w in languageB, it doesn?t necessarily mean that w has only onetranslation v. For instance the word tongue cor-responds to French langue, while in the oppositedirection the word langue has two translations,tongue and language.
In this case the descriptorattribute from French to English will mention re-spectively ?body part?
and ?language?.
Anotherelement of asymmetry is the ranking attribute usedto mark the preferred correspondences in a one-to-many translation1.
For instance the lexicographercan mark his preference to translate lovely into theFrench word charmant rather than agre?able.
Ofcourse the opposite translation direction must beconsidered independently.What is challenging in this project is that it ne-cessitates as many bilingual tables as the numberof language pairs considered, i.e.
n(n   1)=2 ta-bles.
We consider that an appropriate bilingualcoverage (for general purpose translation) requireswell over 60?000 correspondences per languagepair.In the framework of this project we consider5 languages (French, English, German, Italian,Spanish).
Currently, our database contains 4 bilin-gual dictionaries (out of the 10 needed) with thenumber of entries given in figure 1:language pair Number of entriesEnglish - French 77?569German - French 47?797French - Italian 38?188Spanish - French 23?696Figure 1: Number of correspondences in bilingualdictionariesNote that these 4 bilingual dictionaries weremanually created by lexicographers and the qual-ity of the entries can be considered as good.3.2 Automatic generationThe importance of multilingual lexical resourcesin MT and, unfortunately, the lack of availablemultilingual lexical resources has motivated manyinitiatives and research work to establish collabo-ratively made multilingual lexicons, e.g.
the Pa-pillon project (Boitet & al.
2002) or automaticallygenerated multilingual lexicons (see for instanceAymerish & Camelo, 2007, Gamallo, 2007).We plan to use semi-automatic generation tobuild the 6 remaining dictionaries.
For this pur-pose we will derive a bilingual lexicon by transi-tivity, using two existing ones.
For instance, if wehave bilingual correspondences for language pair1This attribute takes the form of an integer between 6 (pre-ferred) and 0 (lowest).92A!
B and B!
C, we can obtain A!
C. We willsee below how the correspondences are validated.The idea of using a pivot language for deriv-ing bilingual lexicons from existing ones is notnew.
The reader can find related approaches in(Paik & al.
2004, Ahn & Frampton 2006, Zhang& al.
2007) .
The specificity of our approach isthat the initial resources are manually made, i.e.non noisy, lexicons.The derivation process goes as follows:1.
Take two bilingual tables for language pairs(A, B) and (B, C) and perform a relationalequi-join.
Perform a filtering based on thepreference attribute to avoid combinatory ex-plosion of the number of generated corre-spondences.2.
Consider as valid all the unambiguous cor-respondences.
We consider that a generatedcorrespondence a !
c is unambiguous if forthe lexical item a there exists only one corre-spondence a!
b in the bilingual lexicon (A,B) and for b there exists only one correspon-dence b !
c in (B, C).
As the lexicon is nonsymmetrical, this process is performed twice,once for each translation direction.3.
Consider as valid all the correspondences ob-tained by a pivot lexical item of type colloca-tion.
We consider as very improbable that acollocation is ambiguous.4.
All other correspondences are checked in aparallel corpus, i.e.
only the correspondencesactually used as translations in the corpusare kept.
First, the parallel corpus is taggedby the Fips tagger (Wehrli, 2007) in orderto lemmatize the words.
This is especiallyvaluable for languages with rich inflection,as well as for verbs with particles.
In orderto check the validity of the correspondences,we count the effective occurrences of a givencorrespondence in a sentence-aligned paral-lel corpus, as well as the occurrences of eachof the lexical items of the correspondence.
Atthe end of the process, we apply the log like-lihood ratio test to decide whether to keep ordiscard the correspondence.3.3 Results of automatic generationThe English-German lexicon that we used in theshared translation task was generated automati-cally.
We derived it on the basis of English-Frenchand German-French lexicons.
For the checking ofthe validity of the correspondences (point 4 of theprocess) we used the parallel corpus of the debatesof the European Parliament during the period 1996to 2001 (Koehn, 2005).
Figure 2 summarizes theresults of the four steps of the derivation process:Step Type Eng.-Ger.1 Candidate corresp.
89?0222 Unambiguous corresp.
67?0123 Collocation pivot 2?6424 Corpus checked 2?404Total validated corresp.
72?058Figure 2: Number of derived entries for English-GermanWe obtained a number of entries compara-ble to those of the manually built bilingual lex-icons.
The number of the correspondences forwhich a validation is necessary is 19?368 (89?022-(67?012+2?642)), of which 2?404 (approximately12%) have been validated based on the the Eu-roParl corpus, as explained above.
The low figure,well below our expectations, is due to the fact thatthe corpus we used is not large enough and is prob-ably not representative of the general language.Up to now, the English-German dictionary re-quired approximately 1?400 entries to be addedmanually, which is less than 2% of the entire lexi-con.4 ConclusionBased on a deep linguistic transfer approach andan object-oriented design, the MulTra multilingualtranslation system aims at developing a large num-ber of language pairs while significantly reduc-ing the development cost as the number of pairsgrows.
We have argued that the use of an abstractand relatively generic linguistic level of represen-tation, as well as the use of an object-oriented soft-ware design play a major role in the reduction ofthe complexity of language-pair transfer modules.With respect to the bilingual databases, (corpus-checked) automatic derivation by transitivity hasbeen shown to drastically reduce the amount ofwork.AcknowledgmentsThe research described in this paper has been sup-ported in part by a grant from the Swiss nationalscience foundation (no 100015-113864).935 ReferencesAhn, K. and Frampton, M. 2006.
?Automatic Gen-eration of Translation Dictionaries Using In-termediary Languages??
in Cross-Languageknowledge Induction Workshop of the EACL06, Trento, Italy, pp 41- 44.Akmajian, A. and F. Heny, 1975.
An Introductionto the Principles of Generative Syntax, MITPress.Arnold, D. 2000.
?Why translation is difficult forcomputers?
in H.L.
Somers (ed.)
Computersand Translation : a handbook for translators,John Benjamin.Aymerich, J. and Camelo, H. 2007.?
Automaticextraction of entries for a machine translationdictionary using bitexts??
in MT Summit XI,Copenhagen, pp.
21-27Boitet, Ch.
2001.
?Four technical and organi-zational keys to handle more languages andimprove quality (on demand) in MT?
in Pro-ceedings of MT-Summit VIII, Santiago deCompostela, 18-22.Boitet, Ch., Mangeot, M. and Se?rasset, G.2002.
?The PAPILLON project: coopera-tively building a multilingual lexical data-base to derive open source dictionaries & lex-icons?
in Proceedings of the 2nd workshopon NLP and XML, COLING 2002, Taipei,Taiwan.Bresnan, J.
2001.
Lexical Functional Syntax, Ox-ford, Blackwell.Chomsky, N. 1995.
The Minimalist Program,Cambridge, Mass., MIT Press.Culicover, P. & R. Jackendoff, 2005.
Simpler Syn-tax, Oxford, Oxford University Press.Gamallo, P. 2007.
?Learning Bilingual Lexi-cons from Comparable English and SpanishCorpora?
in Proceedings of MT Summit XI,Copenhagen.Hutchins, J.
2003.
?Has machine translation im-proved??
in Proceedings of MT-Summit IX,New Orleans, 23-27.Kay, M. 1997.
?Machine Translation : the Dis-appointing Past and Present?
in R.A. Cole, J.Mariani, H. Uskoreit, G. Varile, A. Zaenenand A. Zampoli Survey of the State of theArt in Human Language Technology, Giar-dini Editori.Koehn, P. 2005.
?Europarl: A Parallel Corpusfor Statistical Machine Translation??
in MTSummit 2005.Ney, H. 2005.
?One Decade of Statistical MachineTranslation?
in Proceedings of MT-SummitX, Pukhet, Thailand.Paik, K., Shirai, S. and Nakaiwa, H. 2004.
?Au-tomatic Construction of a Transfer Dictio-nary Considering Directionality?, in COL-ING 2004 Multilingual Linguistic ResourcesWorkshop, Geneva, pp.
25-32.Seretan, V. & E. Wehrli, 2006.
?Accurate Colloca-tion Extraction Using a Multilingual Parser?in Proceedings of the ACL, 953-960, Sydney,Australia.Wehrli, E. 2007.
?Fips, a ?deep?
linguistic mul-tilingual parse?
in Proceedings of the ACL2007 Workshop on Deep Linguistic process-ing, 120-127, Prague, Czech Republic.Zhang, Y., Ma, Q. and Isahara, H. 2007.
?Build-ing Japanese-Chinese Translation DictionaryBased on EDR Japanese-English BilingualDictionary?
inMT Summit XI, Copenhagen,pp 551-557.94
