Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 125?132,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational Linguistics________________________________*  formerly with the Medical Imaging Informatics Group, Dept.
ofRadiological Sciences, University of California - Los Angeles, LosAngeles, CA 90024Incorporating syntactic dependency information towards improvedcoding of lengthy medical concepts in clinical reportsVijayaraghavan Bashyam, PhD*Monster Worldwide Inc.Mountain View, CA 94043vbashyam@ucla.eduRicky K Taira, PhDMedical Imaging Informatics GroupUniversity of California, Los AngelesLos Angeles, CA 90024rtaira@mii.ucla.eduAbstractMedical concepts in clinical reports can befound with a high degree of variability of ex-pression.
Normalizing medical concepts tostandardized vocabularies is a common wayof accounting for this variability.
One of thechallenges in medical concept normalizationis the difficulty in comparing two conceptswhich are orthographically different in repre-sentation but are identical in meaning.
In thiswork we describe a method to compare medi-cal phrases by utilizing the information foundin syntactic dependencies.
We collected alarge corpus of radiology reports from ouruniversity medical center.
A shallow semanticparser was used to identify anatomical phras-es.
We performed a series of transformationsto convert the anatomical phrase into a norma-lized syntactic dependency representation.The new representation provides an easy in-tuitive way of comparing the phrases for thepurpose of concept normalization.1 IntroductionA vast amount of electronic information isgenerated in hospitals as a part of routine clinicalcare due to the adoption of the electronic medicalrecord by health care centers in the United States(Berner et al, 2005; Jha et al, 2006).
A significantportion of this information is in the form of un-structured free-text (Hall, 2000; Tange et al,1998).
A free text representation makes it difficultfor applications to accurately extract medical in-formation for generic purposes (Ananiadou et al,2004).
The problem of variability of expression innatural language expression has been well studied(Bates, 1986, 1989, 1998; Blair and Maron, 1985;Funk and Reid, 1983; Furnas et al, 1984; Gomezet al, 1990).
In the medical domain in particular,users frequently express the same concept in dif-ferent ways and different concepts in similar ways(Ananiadou and Nenadic, 2006).
To illustrate, theterms heart attack and cardiac attack both refer tothe same concept ?
myocardial infarction.
Con-versely the term left lobe could refer to the left lobeof lung or the left lobe of liver depending on thecontext (occurrence in a chest radiology report ver-sus a gastro-intestinal radiology report).
Such va-riability suggests a need to normalize conceptsencountered in medical reports to a standard voca-bulary in order to ensure interoperability.Several standardized vocabularies exist in themedical domain such as the Unified Medical Lan-guage System (Humphreys and Lindberg, 1993),Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine - ClinicalTerms (College of American Pathologists, July2003), Medical Subject Headings (National Li-brary of Medicine), and the International Classifi-cation of Diseases (World Health Organization).There have been several attempts in the past(Aronson, 2001; Bashyam and Taira, 2005; Ba-shyam et al, 2007; Cooper and Miller, 1998;Friedman et al, 2004; Nadkarni et al, 2001; Oliv-er and Altman, 1994; Ruch et al, 2003; Zou et al,2003) to map medical concepts to their standar-dized concept found in these terminologies.
Theseapproaches are based on mostly on lexical match-ing (Bashyam et al, 2007), string matching (Nad-karni et al, 2001), statistical indexing (Cooper and125Miller, 1998), natural language processing (Aron-son, 2001; Friedman et al, 2004) information re-trieval techniques (Bashyam and Taira, 2005;Oliver and Altman, 1994; Ruch et al, 2003; Zou etal., 2003) or a combination of these approaches(Cooper and Miller, 1998).
These systems havemanaged to map a large percentage of medicalterms to their respective standard terminologies intheir reported experiments.
While these systemshave managed to perform satisfactorily for the taskof normalizing simple expressions, they all ac-knowledge the larger problem of normalizing leng-thy expressions.
To illustrate, Nadkarni et al(2001) mention the mapping of the phrase spleenrupture and normal stomach to the concept sto-mach rupture as a possible spurious mapping.We hypothesize that using deep syntactic in-formation can help in avoiding such spurious map-ping.
We describe a system which uses informationfound in syntactic dependencies to help in the cod-ing of lengthy phrases.
Preliminary results usingthis approach are reported as a proof-of-concept.2 BackgroundSyntactic dependency parsing has receivedmuch focus from the natural language processingcommunity (Eisner, 1996; Kudo and Matsumoto,2000; Nivre and Scholz, 2004; Yamada and Mat-sumoto, 2003).
A syntactic dependency relation isan asymmetric relation between two words.
Oneword is called the head, and the other word iscalled the modifier or dependent.
A word in thesentence can play the role of the head in severaldependency relations (i.e., it can have several mod-ifiers) but each word can play the role of the mod-ifier only once.
A special word, named the root,does not play the role of the modifier in any rela-tion.
The set of dependency relations that can bedefined on a sentence form a tree, called the de-pendency tree.
An example of dependencies in atypical sentence found in a radiology report isshown in Figure 1.Systems based on syntactic dependencies havebeen used successfully in several information re-trieval experiments with results outperforming tra-ditional retrieval systems (Croft et al, 1991; Gaoet al, 2004; Gonzalez et al, 2005; Smeaton,1986).
In particular, this method has been used forword sense disambiguation (Lin, 1997) and thesau-rus construction (Lin, 1998).
Dependency treeshave also been used for medical concept represen-tation in the domains of radiology (Steimann,1998) and pathology (Romacker et al, 1999).3 Methods3.1 Anatomy Phrase ExtractionFor identifying anatomy phrases, we use a spe-cialized phrase parser trained to identify anatomyphrases within clinical reports.
The input to theparser is a sentence tagged with a part-of-speechtag and a semantic tag.
The lexical analyzer mod-ule of our NLP system takes a single sentence asthe input and produces an output of word tokenstagged with their syntactic and semantic classes.The semantic tag is obtained by mapping tokens ina sentence to a taxonomy handcrafted for the do-main of radiology reports custom built from radi-ology textbooks, radiology review manuals,radiology word compilations and published radiol-ogy glossaries apart from actual radiology reports(Taira et al, 2001).
Features of our implementationFigure 1.
Example of a syntactic dependency parse tree with emphasis towards semantics.
Each arcshows a dependency relation between a head and a modifier.126include: 1) a large number (>450)  of semanticclasses as compared to lexical sources currentlyavailable allowing improved discrimination fortasks such as syntactic parsing, semantic interpre-tation and frame building; 2) the system recognizesspecial symbols including dates, medical abbrevia-tions, medical coding symbols, numeric measure-ments, image slice references, and proper names;and 3) the system performs some word sense dis-ambiguation using surrounding syntactic and se-mantic word features.Our phrase parsing module currently targetsanatomy phrases (e.g., right upper lobe of lung),existential relationships (e.g., there is no evidenceof), and spatial relationships (e.g., is located 1cmabove).
We utilize a supervised learning approachto estimate the feature weights to a maximum en-tropy model which classifies words as the start,inside, end, single, or outside of a phrase boundary.A Viterbi dynamic programming algorithm  is usedto maximize the tag sequence probability.
Theanatomy phrase chunker has been tested on 4,500sentences with recall and precision scores of 97.1%and 97.4% respectively.3.2 Normalized Dependency RepresentationWe perform a series of transformations to con-vert an anatomical phrase from a free-text repre-sentation to a normalized dependency vector spacerepresentation.
The following steps are taken in therepresentation conversion:Syntactic ParsingThe anatomy phrase identified by the phraseparser preserves lexical information which is usedto obtain a dependency parse tree using a full syn-tactic parser.
This parser is based on a novel fieldtheory approach to dependency parsing.
The parseris strongly modeled for the radiology domain withperformance accuracies of 84.9% and 89.9% forlink precision and recall respectively for parsingwhole sentences (Taira et al, 2007).
In compari-son, the state-of-the-art parsers have performanceaccuracies in the low nineties for link precision andrecall in the domain of newspaper text, with per-formance unknown in the domain of clinical text.Link ReductionOur system classifies dependency links intotwo types ?
bilexical links and trilexical links.
Abilexical link is a strong dependency relation be-tween two words (e.g.
determiner?noun) whereasa trilexical link usually has a mediator word in be-tween the two words (e.g.
finding?in?location).When possible, a trilexical link is converted to abilexical link by the elimination of the mediatorword and the link type is tagged by the mediatorword.
The link type can play important roles incertain cases.
In cases where the mediator word isalso important, the trilexical link is considered as apair of bilexical links.Token Level NormalizationOnce the parse tree is obtained, the tokens arenormalized to their base form.
The normalization isan approximate kind of lemmatization.
Howeverwe also perform word level synonym normaliza-tion.
For lemmatization, we use the Lexical Va-riant Generator tools developed by the NationalLibrary of Medicine for biomedical text (McCrayet al, 1994).
For synonyms, we use a handcraftedlexicon built for the domain of radiology.
This stephelps in avoiding missing a mapping due to lexicaldifferences due to pluralization, abbreviations andacronyms, case differences etc.
This representationis referred to as the normalized dependency vectorspace representation3.3 Mapping to a TerminologyThe normalized dependency parse tree isrepresented as in a vector space as a bag-of-links asanalogous to the so-called bag-of-words represen-tation in conventional information retrieval.
Twophrases can now be compared by using similaritymeasures such as cosine, dice, jaccard etc.
withinthe dimension-space of dependency-links.
Onephrase can be the anatomy phrase in a clinical re-port and the other phrase can be an entry in a stan-dardized terminology.127Figure 2.
Example illustrating the transformation of a medical phrase from a free-text representation to anormalized syntactic dependency  vector space representation.An exercise in normalization is described inFigure 2 to illustrate how this method works.
Con-sider the following phrase in a neuro-radiologyreport: ventral postero-medial thalamic nucleus.The corresponding concept in the target terminolo-gy is the phrase postero-medial ventral nucleus ofthalamus.
These phrases if compared by stringmatching will not result in direct matches.
Permut-ing words and trying to compare rearrangements iscomplicated.
In our approach, we first preprocessour terminology list and store it in a database.
Thepreprocessing step is described in the right column(Phrase 2) of Figure 2.
Starting with the phrasepostero-medial ventral nucleus of thalamus, wefirst tokenize the individual words (lexical analy-sis) in the first step.
In the second step, we parsethe phrase to arrive at the dependency tree.
In thethird step, the trilexical link nuc-leus?of?thalamus is converted to a bilexical linkby eliminating the word of and tagging it as thelink type.
In the following step, each word is nor-malized to its base form.
In the fifth step, thephrase is represented as a bag-of-links and storedin a database.
Similarly all the other phrases in ourterminology are stored.When the query phrase ventral postero-medialthalamic nucleus is compared against the terminol-ogy it undergoes the same processes previouslydescribed (Figure 2, Phrase 1).
The importance ofword-normalization can be seen here.
In step 4, theword thalamic is normalized to thalamus.
The finaloutput is the bag-of-links representation.
For con-128venience of comparison Figure 2 shows together,the query phrase and target phrase undergoing thevarious steps starting from a bag-of-words repre-sentation to a bag-of-links representation.
It is clearthat both phrases look identical in the final repre-sentation.
While a string comparison would havemissed equating the two in their original word-level representation, a comparison in the depen-dency vector space is likely to score them as a per-fect match.4 Experiment and ResultsWe obtained a set of 2500 neuro-radiology re-ports from our university medical center.
Using theshallow semantic parser, we extracted a set of 2551unique anatomical phrases.
Of the 2551 phrases,819 phrases were single worded terms.
We dis-carded the single word terms.
Single wordedphrases do not fall into the difficult-to-map catego-ry which this method is specifically aiming to ad-dress.
Moreover, a minimum of two words arerequired to define a syntactic dependency and thusthe method is irrelevant for single worded terms.Thus we used only the 1732 multi-worded terms inour experiment.
The average length of the multi-worded terms was 2.48 words.We chose the UMLS, a coordinated repositoryof vocabularies as a target for concept coding.
Toreduce complexity, we removed non-English con-cepts and concepts outside the domain of     neuro-radiology by filtering out unrelated concepts.
Ourfinal terminology had a size of about 100,000 en-tries.
We preprocessed the entire terminology us-ing the above mentioned steps and stored thedependency representation in a database.
Everyanatomy phrase was queried against this databaseand cosine similarity was used to measure relev-ance.
No weighting system was employed althoughit is possible to weight links by their types.
A phy-sician domain expert manually evaluated the re-sults of the 1732 queries for performance.
Of the1732 phrases, 1091  phrases (62.9% accuracy, 95%CI ?0.946%) were successfully matched.
Since thetarget set is extremely large in size (as in any IRsystem), a recall analysis was not performed.
Abaseline comparison with MMTx (in phrase mode)resulted in 1051 phrases (60.68% accuracy, 95%CI ?0.49%) being mapped by MMTx.
Table 1summarizes the results.5 DiscussionAnalysis of the errors showed that the follow-ing error types resulted in the inability to matchphrases perfectly:Parsing without context:A syntactic parser can parse a sentence andidentify dependency relations in a sentence.
How-ever, when a phrase is given as an input, it is notalways easy to parse a phrase and generate a de-pendency representation.
There is context (remain-ing portions of the sentence) missing which isneeded to unambiguously parse the phrase.
In thecase of anatomical phrases, our system was able toparse it because the source sentences from whichthey were extracted were available.
However, inthe case of the UMLS phrases, there is no suchavailable information.
Therefore manual parsing ofseveral UMLS phrases had to be performed.
Onepotential solution to this problem could be to iden-tify MEDLINE sentences that contain these UMLSconcepts and obtain a dependency parse tree usingthe context of the sentence.Modular system architecture:Since the system is modular, any errors in oneof the modules (tokenization, word level normali-zation etc.)
would result in the final dependencyrepresentation being imperfect.
The specific errorswe noticed were:Parsing Errors:Our parser has a higher accuracy for parsingphrases than whole sentences.
However in this ex-periment, there were 37 instances where it failed inMMTxMatched PhrasesSyn.
DependencyMatched Phrases1051 1091 n=173260.68% 62.99%(?0.49%) (?0.49%)Table 1.
Overview of Results129assigning the correct links.
This resulted in partialmatches.Word Normalization Errors:There is a natural ambiguity introduced whenwords are normalized to their base forms.
Wordswith completely different senses can have the sameroot form (e.g.
left?leaves and left?left (spatialdirection)).
Similarly, a word can have differentnormalized forms depending on the sense (e.g.leaf?leaves and left?leaves).
A robust methodfor word-level normalization is desired that canalso perform word-sense disambiguation.
Current-ly the NLM?s word level normalization tool is be-ing used which is not perfect and therefore errorsintroduced due to this module result in the entirephrase being transformed incorrectly or ambi-guously.
The ideal word level normalization willresult in the words cancer, cancerous, carcinomaall conflating to the same word which is beyondpurely morphological analysis.Link Reduction Errors:Not all relations manifest as simple bilexicaland trilexical links.
Some relations are tetralexicaland although they can be reduced effectively tobilexical links, the methodology needs to be inves-tigated.
To illustrate, consider the phrases ?massconsistent with cancer?
and ?cancerous mass?parsed asmass?consistent?with?cancercancerous?mass.The former is parsed as four words with threelinks.
To convert it into a bilexical link, the words?consistent?
and ?with?
need to be: (1) clustered asa single token and (2) eliminated by transferring itto the link as a label.
This is a more complicatedprocess and we still haven?t explored such abstrac-tions.
A robust rule based link reduction system isdesired to handle such cases.Another limitation of this method is that theheuristic rules for link reduction may not be appli-cable outside the radiology domain.
Finally, syn-tactic dependency parsers are built usingcomputationally complex algorithms.
Thus whileusing them can result in advanced language under-standing, they may not be suitable for real-timeapplications.
There is always a tradeoff betweenaccuracy and speed and it remains to be seen ifrobust low complexity parsers can be developed.The inability to perform a recall analysis alsomake is difficult to judge the theoretical best per-formance.
That is, it is quite likely that there aremany phrases in our dataset that do not have a cor-responding UMLS concept.
Performing a recallanalysis would help in determining this.While we noticed several areas of improvementin our system, we were encouraged by the compar-ison of the overall results of our system to that ofMMTx.
We did not do an error analysis of MMTxsince several previous publications have docu-mented the various kinds of errors in MMTx (Ba-shyam et al, 2007; Divita et al, 2004; Meng et al,2005).
Our idea is to provide a baseline compari-son showing that our approach performs compara-bly if not better than MMTx which is the mostcommonly used1 tool for concept coding.
To ourknowledge this the first time syntactic dependen-cies have been used for this task, Previous attemptshave relied purely on shallow parsers.6 Future WorkIncreasing the robustness of the individualmodules is a primary requirement for further expe-riments to prevent the weakest link effect cascadingto the final output.
Specifically we plan to worktowards a robust word level normalization system.Additionally, robust evaluation methods includingcomparisons with other techniques will be investi-gated.7 ConclusionSyntactic dependency based methods for med-ical concept coding show promise.
While some ofthe described implementations are specific to do-main (radiology) and phrase type (anatomy), it isexpected that the principle is general enough to beapplied in other domains as well.1 For an overview of recent applications of MMTx, see (Ba-shyam et al, 2007)130AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank Lew Andrada,Gregory Leazer, Jonathan Furner and ChristineBorgman for several useful suggestions.This work was supported in part by the follow-ing grants:1.
National Institute of Biomedical Imagingand Bioengineering P01-EB002162.
National Institute of Health R01-EB002247ReferencesAnaniadou, S., Friedman, C., and Tsujii, J.
(2004).
In-troduction: named entity recognition in biomedicine.Journal of  Biomedical Informatics, 37(6), 393-395.Ananiadou, Sophia, and Nenadic, Goran.
(2006).
Auto-matic Terminology Management in Biomedicine.
InSophia Ananiadou and John McNaught (Eds.
), TextMining for Biology And Biomedicine.
NorwoodMA: Artech House.Aronson, A. R. (2001).
Effective mapping of biomedi-cal text to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMapprogram, AMIA Annu Symp Proc (pp.
17-21).
Port-land, OR.Bashyam, V., and Taira, R. K. (2005).
Indexing Ana-tomical Phrases in Neuro-Radiology Reports to theUMLS 2005AA, American Medical Informatics As-sociation Annual Symposium (pp.
26-30).
Washing-ton DC.Bashyam, Vijayaraghavan, Divita, Guy, Bennett, DavidB, Browne, Allen C, and Taira, Ricky K. (2007, Au-gust 2007).
A Normalized Lexical Lookup Approachto identifying UMLS concepts in free text.
Paper pre-sented at the 12th World Congress on Health (Medi-cal) Informatics (MEDINFO).
Brisbane, Australia.Bates, M. J.
(1986).
Subject access in online catalogs: Adesign model.
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science, 37(6), 357-376.Bates, M. J.
(1989).
Rethinking Subject Cataloging inthe Online Environment.
Library Resources andTechnical Services, 33(4), p400-412.Bates, M. J.
(1998).
Indexing and access for digital li-braries and the internet: Human, database, and do-main factors.
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science, 49(13), 1185-1205.Berner, E. S., Detmer, D. E., and Simborg, D. (2005).Will the Wave Finally Break?
A Brief View of theAdoption of Electronic Medical Records in the Unit-ed States.
J Am Med Inform Assoc, 12(1).Blair, David C., and Maron, M. E. (1985).
An Evalua-tion of retrieval effectiveness for a full-text documentretrieval system.
Communications of the ACM,28(3), 289-299.College of American Pathologists.
(July 2003).SNOMED Clinical Terms ?
Technical ReferenceGuide.Cooper, G. F., and Miller, R. A.
(1998).
An ExperimentComparing Lexical and Statistical Methods for Ex-tracting MeSH Terms from Clinical Free Text, Pro-ceedings of the American Medical InformaticsAssociation Annual Symposium.Croft, W. B., Turtle, H. R., and Lewis, D. D. (1991).The use of phrases and structured queries in informa-tion retrieval.
Paper presented at the Proc of the 14thAnnu Intnl ACM SIGIR Conf on R&D in Informa-tion Retrieval.Divita, Guy, Tse, Tony, and Roth, Laura.
(2004).
Fail-ure analysis of MetaMap transfer (MMTx).
In M Fie-schi et.
al.
(Ed.
), Proceedings of the 11 WorldCongress on Health Informatics (MEDINFO 2004).Eisner, J.
(1996).
Three new probabilistic models fordependency parsing: An exploration.
Paper presentedat the Proc COLING.Friedman, C., Shagina, L., Lussier, Y., and Hripcsak, G.(2004).
Automated Encoding of Clinical DocumentsBased on Natural Language Processing.
Journal ofthe American Medical Informatics Association,11(5), 392.Funk, M. E., and Reid, C. A.
(1983).
Indexing consis-tency in MEDLINE.
Bulletin of the Medical LibraryAssociation, 71(2), 176-183.Furnas, G. W., Landauer, T. K., Gomez, L. M., andDumais, S. T. (1984).
Statistical semantics: analysisof the potential performance of keyword informationsystems.
In Human factors in computer systems (pp.187-242): Ablex Publishing Corp. Norwood, NJ,USA.Gao, J., Nie, J. Y., Wu, G., and Cao, G. (2004).
Depen-dence language model for information retrieval.
Pa-per presented at the Proc ACM SIGIR.Gomez, L. M., Lochbaum, C. C., and Landauer, T. K.(1990).
All the right words: Finding what you wantas a function of richness of indexing vocabulary.Journal of the American Society for InformationScience, 41(8), 547-559.131Gonzalez, M., Strube De Lima, V. L., and Valdeni DeLima, J.
(2005).
Binary Lexical Relations for TextRepresentation in Information Retrieval.
In NaturalLanguage Processing and Information Systems (Vol.3513, pp.
21-31).
Berlin / Heidelberg: SpringerHall, F. (2000).
Language of the radiology report.American Journal of Roentology, 175, 1239-1241.Humphreys, B. L., and Lindberg, D. A.
B.
(1993).
TheUMLS project: making the conceptual connectionbetween users and the information they need.
Bulle-tin of the Medical Library Association, 81(2), 170.Jha, Ashish K., Ferris, Timothy G., Donelan, Karen,DesRoches, Catherine, Shields, Alexandra, Rosen-baum, Sara, and Blumenthal, David.
(2006).
HowCommon Are Electronic Health Records In TheUnited States?
A Summary Of The Evidence.
HealthAffairs, doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.25.w496.Kudo, T., and Matsumoto, Y.
(2000).
Japanese depen-dency structure analysis based on support vector ma-chines.
Paper presented at the Proc  InternationalConference On Computational Linguistics.Lin, D. (1997).
Using syntactic dependency as localcontext to resolve word sense ambiguity, Proceedingsof the 35th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputationalLinguistics and 8th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.
Madrid, Spain.Lin, D. (1998).
Automatic retrieval and clustering ofsimilar words.
Paper presented at the Proc 36th AnnuMeeting of the ACL and 17th Intnl Conf on CompLing.McCray, AT, Srinivasan, S, and Browne, AC.
(1994).Lexical methods for managing variation in biomedi-cal terminologies.
Paper presented at the Proceedingsof the Annual Symposium on Computer Applicationsin Medical Care.Meng, F., D'Avolio, L. W., Chen, A.
A., Taira, R. K.,and Kangarloo, H. (2005).
Generating Models ofSurgical Procedures using UMLS Concepts and Mul-tiple Sequence Alignment, AMIA Annu Symp Proc(Vol.
520, pp.
4).
Washington, DC.Nadkarni, P., Chen, R., and Brandt, C. (2001).
UMLSConcept Indexing for Production Databases: A Fea-sibility Study.
Journal of the American Medical In-formatics Association, 8(1), 80.National Library of Medicine.
MEdical Subject Head-ings.
www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/ meshhome.html LastAccessed 09 March  2007 Bethesda, MD.Nivre, J., and Scholz, M. (2004).
Deterministic depen-dency parsing of English text.
Paper presented at theProc COLING.Oliver, D. E., and Altman, R. B.
(1994).
Extraction ofSNOMED concepts from medical record texts, Procof the 18th Annual SCAMC (Vol.
17983).
Washing-ton: McGraw Hill.Romacker, M., Schulz, S., and Hahn, U.
(1999).Streamlining semantic interpretation for medicalnarratives.
Paper presented at the AMIA Annu SympProc.Ruch, P., Baud, R., and Geissb?hler, A.
(2003).
Learn-ing-free Text Categorization, Proc of 9th Conf on Ar-tificial Intelligence in Medicine (pp.
199?204).Smeaton, A. F. (1986).
Incorporating syntactic informa-tion into a document retrieval strategy: an investiga-tion.
Paper presented at the Proc of the 1986 ACMConf on R&D in Information Retrieval, Pisa, Italy.Steimann, F. (1998).
Dependency parsing for medicallanguage and concept representation.
Artificial Intel-ligence in Medicine, 12(1), 77-86.Taira, R. K., Soderland, S. G., and Jakobovits, R. M.(2001).
Automatic Structuring of Radiology Free-Text Reports.
Radiology, 21, 237-245.Taira, Ricky K, Bashyam, Vijayaraghavan, and Kangar-loo, Hooshang.
(2007).
A Field Theoretical Approachfor Medical Natural Language Processing.
IEEETransactions on IT in Biomedicine, 11(4), 364-375.Tange, H.J., Schouten, H.C., Kester, A.D.M., and Has-man, A.
(1998).
The Granularity of Medical Narra-tives and Its Effect on the Speed and Completenessof Information Retrieval.
J Am Med Inform Assoc,5(6), 571-582.World Health Organization.http://www.who.int/classifications/icd/en/ Last Ac-cessed 09 March  2007.Yamada, H., and Matsumoto, Y.
(2003).
Statistical de-pendency analysis with support vector machines.
Pa-per presented at the Proceedings of the 8thInternational Workshop on Parsing Technologies(IWPT).Zou, Q., Chu, W. W., Morioka, C., Leazer, G. H., andKangarloo, H. (2003).
IndexFinder: A Method of Ex-tracting Key Concepts from Clinical Texts for Index-ing, AMIA Annu Symp Proc (Vol.
2003, pp.
763-767).132
