Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technology and Resources for Cultural Heritage,Social Sciences, Humanities, and Education ?LaTeCH ?
SHELT&R 2009, pages 35?42,Athens, Greece, 30 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsA web-enabled and speech-enhanced parallel corpusof Greek - Bulgarian cultural textsVoula GiouliInstitute for Language & SpeechProcessing Athens, Greecevoula@ilsp.grNikos GlarosInstitute for Language & SpeechProcessing Athens, Greecenglaros@ilsp.grKiril SimovInstitute for Parallel Processing,BAS, Sofia, Bulgariakivs@bultreebank.orPetya OsenovaInstitute for Parallel Processing,BAS, Sofia, Bulgariapetya@bultreebank.orgAbstractThis paper reports on completed work carriedout in the framework of an EU-funded projectaimed at (a) developing a bilingual collectionof cultural texts in Greek and Bulgarian, (b)creating a number of accompanying resourcesthat will facilitate study of the primary textsacross languages, and (c) integrating a systemwhich aims to provide web-enabled andspeech-enhanced access to digitized bilingualCultural Heritage resources.
This simple userinterface, which incorporates advanced searchmechanisms, also offers innovative accessibil-ity for visually impaired Greek and Bulgarianusers.
The rationale behind the work (and therelative resource) was to promote the com-parative study of the cultural heritage of thetwo countries.1 IntroductionThe document describes a bilingual Greek (EL)and Bulgarian (BG) collection of literary andfolklore texts along with the metadata that weredeemed necessary for the efficient managementand retrieval of the textual data.
Section 2 out-lines the project aims that guided selection andannotation of the texts, whereas Section 3 pre-sents the primary data that comprise the bilingualtextual collection and the methodology adoptedfor collecting them.
Section 4 elaborates on themetadata scheme that has been implemented todescribe the primary data and the linguistic anno-tation tailored to facilitate search and retrieval atthe document, phrase or word level.
This schemeis compliant to widely accepted standards so asto ensure reusability of the resource at hand.
Sec-tion 5 presents the Language Technologies (LT)deployed in the project elaborating on the Greekand the Bulgarian text processing tools, and dis-cusses the LT methods that have been (a) ex-ploited in the course of the project to facilitatethe web-interface construction and (b) integratedin the search and retrieval mechanisms to im-prove the system performance.
Finally, Section 6describes the main components of the web inter-face and the way various features are exploited tofacilitate users?
access to the data.
In the last sec-tion, we present conclusions and future work.2 Project descriptionThe project aims at highlighting cultural re-sources that, as of yet, remain non-exploited totheir greatest extent, and at creating the neces-sary infrastructure with the support of LT with aview to promoting the study of cultural heritageof the eligible neighboring areas and  raisingawareness about their common cultural identity.To serve these objectives, the project had a con-crete target, that is, the creation of a textual col-lection and of accompanying material that wouldbe appropriate for the promotion and study of thecultural heritage of the neighboring areas inGreece and Bulgaria (Thrace and the neighboringSmolyan, Blagoevgrad, Kardjali, Khaskovo ar-eas), the focus being on literature, folklore andlanguage.
To this end, the main activities withinthe project life-cycle were to:?
record and roadmap the literary productionof the afore mentioned areas spanning fromthe 19th century till the present days alongwith written records on folk culture and folk-tales from the eligible areas.
These shouldform a pool of candidate texts from which35the most appropriate for the project objec-tives could be selected;?
record and roadmap existing translations ofliterary works in both languages to serve forthe creation of the parallel corpus;?
select textual material representative of thetwo cultures, and thus, suitable for theircomparative study;?
digitize the selected (printed) material to aformat suitable for long-term preservation;?
collect meta-texts relevant to the selectedliterary and folklore texts, that is, texts aboutthe literary works, biographies of the se-lected authors, criticism, etc.
; these comprisepart of the accompanying material?
document the data with any informationdeemed necessary for its preservation andexploitation, catering for their interrelationso as to highlight their common features andallow unified access to the whole set alngtext types / genres and languages;?
extract bilingual glossaries from the primarycollection of literary and folklore texts alsoaccounted for as accompanying material; theproject caters for the extraction of EL andBG terms and names of Persons and Loca-tions and their translation equivalents in theother language;?
make the primary resource along with theaccompanying material (meta-texts and glos-saries) publicly available over the internet toall interested parties, ranging from the re-search community to laypersons, school stu-dents and people interested in finding outmore about the particular areas;?
facilitate access to the material that wouldn?tbe hampered by users?
computer literacyand/or language barriers.
To cater for the lat-ter, the web interface would be as simple aspossible ?
yet functional ?
and the datashould be available in both languages (Greekand Bulgarian) plus in English.3 The bilingual Greek ?
Bulgarian Cul-tural CorpusAlong with the aforementioned lines, the col-lection comprises parallel EL ?
BG literary andfolklore texts.
The main specifications for theGreek - Bulgarian Cultural Corpus (GBCC) crea-tion were:?
to build a bilingual resource that could beused as a means to study cultural similaritiesand/or differences between the neighboringareas of Greece and Bulgaria the focus beingon literature, folklore and folktales;?
to provide a representative sample of (a) lit-erature written by authors from Thrace -thatis from the entire area of Thrace- or aboutThrace, spanning between the 19th century -today, (b) folklore texts about Thrace, thatwould normally reflect cultural as well aslinguistic elements either shared by the twopeople or unique to each culture, and (c)folktales and legends from Thrace, the latterbeing the intermediate between literature andfolklore.In order to gather the candidate texts and au-thors for such a collection we exploited bothprinted and digitized sources, i.e., (on-line andprinted) anthologies of Bulgarian, Greek or Bal-kan literature, digital archives, web resources andlibrary material.
The outcome of this extensiveresearch was a wealth of literary works includingtitles by the most prominent authors in Bulgariaand Greece.
The selection of the authors, whowould finally participate in GBCC, was based onthe following criteria: (a) author's impact toGreek or Bulgarian literature respectively; and(b) author's contribution to his county's folkstudy or other major sectors such as journalismand education.Additionally, to ensure corpus ?representa-tiveness?
to some extend, we tried to include thefull range of the literary texts (poetry, fiction,short stories) and in proportion to the literaryproduction with respect to the parameters ofplace, time and author.
To this end, we think wehave avoided biases and the corpus models alllanguage varieties spoken in the areas and at dif-ferent periods.Moreover, the "inner" content characteristicsof texts were used as the basic criteria for textselection.
To this end, we chose texts whichdemonstrate the two people's cultural similaritiesand affinity along with each author's most impor-tant and representative works.
Beyond the above,the availability of a translation in the other lan-guage and IPR issues also influenced text selec-tion.The collection of the primary data currentlycomprises of (135) literary works, (70) BG (Bul-garian) and 65 EL (Greek).
Moreover, (30) BGfolk texts and 30 EL folk texts along with (25)BG folktales and 31 EL folktales were added inorder to build a corpus as balanced as possibleand representative of each country's culture.
Interms of tokens, the corpus amounts to 700,00036in total (circa 350,000 tokens per language): theliterature part is about 550,000 tokens, whereas,the folklore and legend sub-corpus is about150,000 tokens.Moreover, to cater for the project requirementthat the corpus should be bilingual, availabletranslations of the primary EL ?
BG literaryworks were also selected to form the parallel lit-erary corpus.
Additionally, an extensive transla-tion work was also carried out by specializedtranslators where applicable (folklore texts andfolktales).The collection covers EL and BG literary pro-duction dating from the 19th century till the pre-sent day, and also texts (both literary or folklore)that are written in the dialect(s) used in the eligi-ble areas.
This, in effect, is reflected in the lan-guage varieties represented in the textual collec-tion that range from contemporary to non-contemporary, and from normal to dialectical oreven mixed language.Finally, the collection of primary data wasalso coupled with accompanying material (con-tent metadata) for each literary work (literarycriticism) and for each author (biographical in-formation, list of works, etc.).
Along with all theabove, texts about the common cultural elementswere also included.4 Corpus AnnotationAfter text selection, digitization and extendedmanual validation (where appropriate) were per-formed.
Normalization of the primary data waskept to a minimum so as to cater, for example,for the conversion from the Greek polytonic tothe monotonic encoding system.
Furthermore, toensure efficient content handling and retrievaland also to facilitate access to the resource athand via the platform that has been developed,metadata descriptions and linguistic annotationswere added across two pillars: (a) indexing andretrieval, and (b) further facilitating the compara-tive study of textual data.
To this end, metadatadescriptions and linguistic annotations compliantwith internationally accepted standards wereadded to the raw material.
The metadata schemedeployed in this project is compliant with inter-nationally accredited standards with certainmodifications that cater for the peculiarities ofthe data.More specifically, the metadata scheme im-plemented in this project builds on XCES, theXML version of the Corpus Encoding Standard(XCES, http://www.cs.vassar.edu/XCES/ andCES, http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES/CES1-0.html), which has been proposed by EAGLES(http://www.ilc.cnr.it/EAGLES96/home.html)and is compliant with the specifications of theText Encoding Initiative (http://www.tei-c.org,Text Encoding Initiative (TEI Guidelines forElectronic Text Encoding and Interchange).From the total number of elements proposed bythese guidelines, the annotation of the parallelcorpus at hand has been restricted to the recogni-tion of structural units at the sentence level,which is the minimum level required for thealignment and term extraction processes.
Thatmeans that the requirements of CES Level 1 con-formance are met; as regards CES Level 2 therequirements (but not the recommendations) arealso met, and from CES Level 3 requirements,annotation for sentence boundaries is met.Additionally, metadata elements have beendeployed which encode information necessaryfor text indexing with respect to text title, author,publisher, publication date, etc.
(bibliographicalinformation) and for the classification of eachtext according to text type/genre and topic, thelatter being applicable to folklore texts and folktales.
Classification of folklore texts is based onthe widely accepted Aarne-Thompson classifica-tion system (Aarne, 1961).To this end, to assure documentation com-pleteness, and facilitate the inter-relation amongprimary data and the accompanying material (bi-ographies, criticism, etc) the documentationscheme has been extended accordingly.
Theaforementioned metadata descriptions are keptseparately from the data in an xml header that isto be deployed by the web interface for searchand retrieval purposes.The external structural annotation (includingtext classification) of the corpus also adheres tothe IMDI metadata scheme (IMDI, MetadataElements for Session Descriptions, Version3.0.4, Sept. 2003).
Adaptations proposed specifi-cally concerning Written Language Resourceshave been taken into account.
IMDI metadataelements for catalogue descriptions (IMDI,Metadata Elements for Catalogue Descriptions,Version 2.1, June 2001) were also taken into ac-count to render the corpus compatible with exist-ing formalisms (ELRA, and LDC).
This type ofmetadata descriptions was added manually to thetexts.To further enhance the capabili-ties/functionalities of the final application, ren-dering, thus the collection a useful resource toprospective users and researchers, further annota-37tions at various levels of linguistic analysis wereintegrated across two pillars: (a) efficient index-ing and retrieval; and (b) further facilitating thecomparative study of textual data by means ofbilingual glossaries which were constructedsemi-automatically, and via the visualization ofaligned parallel texts.Text processing at the monolingual level com-prises the following procedures: (a) handling andtokenization, (b) Part-of-Speech (POS) taggingand lemmatization, (c) surface syntactic analysis,(d) indexing with terms/keywords andphrases/Named Entities (NEs) pertaining to thetypes Location (LOC) and Person (PER).Annotations at these levels were added semi-automatically, by deploying existing genericNatural Language Processing (NLP) tools thatwere developed for the languages at hand,whereas extensive and intensive validations wereperformed via several ways.
Indeed, although thetools deployed have reported to achieve high ac-curacy rates in the domains/genres they wereintended for, the specific nature of the data led toa significant reduction.
To this end, half of theannotations were checked manually.
After theidentification of the errors in this part of the cor-pus, we have performed a manual check in thesecond part of the corpus only for these caseswhich were recognized as errors during the vali-dation of the first part.
For some of the casesrelevant constraints in the systems were written,which automatically find places where somerules were not met.
Tools customization was alsoperformed by adding new rules applicable for thelanguage varieties to be handled, and also by ex-tending/modifying the resources used (word andname lists, etc.
).Finally, alignment of parallel texts (primarysource documents and their translations) has alsobeen performed at both sentence and phraselevel.
As expected, poems posited the major dif-ficulties due the fuzziness in identifying sentenceboundaries, and alignments at the phrase levelwere favored instead.5 Language TechnologiesIn what follows the Greek and Bulgarian TextProcessing Components will be described.5.1 The Greek pipe-lineIn the case of the Greek data, text processingwas applied via an existing pipeline of shallowprocessing tools for the Greek language.
Theseinclude:?
Handling and tokenization; following com-mon practice, the Greek tokenizer makes useof a set of regular expressions, coupled withprecompiled lists of abbreviations, and a setof simple heuristics (Papageorgiou et al,2002) for the recognition of word and sen-tence boundaries, abbreviations, digits, andsimple dates.?
POS-tagging and lemmatization; a taggerthat is based on Brill's TBL architecture(Brill, 1997), modified to address peculiari-ties of the Greek language (Papageorgiou etal., 2000) was used in order to assign mor-phosyntactic information to tokenized words.Furthermore, the tagger uses a PAROLE-compliant tagset of 584 different part-of-speech tags.
Following POS tagging, lemmasare retrieved from a Greek morphologicallexicon.?
Surface syntactic analysis; the Greek chun-ker is based on a grammar of 186 rules(Boutsis et al, 2000) developed for theautomatic recognition of non-recursivephrasal categories: adjectives, adverbs,prepositional phrases, nouns, verbs (chunks)(Papageorgiou et al, 2002).?
Term extraction; a Greek Term Extractorwas used for spotting terms and idiomaticwords (Georgantopoulos, Piperidis, 2000).Term Extractor's method proceeds in threepipelined stages: (a) morphosyntactic anno-tation of the domain corpus, (b) corpus pars-ing based on a pattern grammar endowedwith regular expressions and feature-structure unification, and (c) lemmatization.Candidate terms are then statistically evalu-ated with an aim to skim valid domain termsand lessen the overgeneration effect causedby pattern grammars (hybrid methodology).Named Entity Recognition was then per-formed using MENER (Maximum EntropyNamed Entity Recognizer), a system compatiblewith the ACE (Automatic Content Extraction)scheme, catering for the recognition and classifi-cation of the following types of NEs: person(PER), organization (ORG), location (LOC) andgeopolitical entity (GPE) (Giouli et al, 2006).5.2 Bulgarian ToolsIn the processing of the Bulgarian part of thecorpus we have been using generic languagetechnology tools developed for Bulgarian.
Hereis the list of tools that we have used.
They are38implemented within the CLaRK System (Simovet al 2001) via:Tokenization, Morphosyntactic tagging,Lemmatization; Tokenization is implemented asa hierarchy of tokenizers within the CLaRK sys-tem.
Morphosyntactic tagging is done on the ba-sis a morphological lexicon which covers thegrammatical information of about 100 000 lex-emes (1 600 000 word forms); a gazetteers ofabout 25000 names and 1500 abbreviations.
Weare using the BulTreeBank tagset, which is amore specialized version of Multext-east tagset.The disambiguation is done in two steps.
Ini-tially, a rule-based module solves the sure casesfor which manual rules can be written.
Then, forthe next step, a neural-network-based disam-biguator is being exploited (Simov and Osenova2001).
Lemmatization is implemented as ruleswhich convert each word form in the lemma.
Therules are assigned to the word forms in the lexi-con.
This ensures very high level of accuracy.Partial Grammars have also been constructedfor Sentence splitting, Named-entity recognition,and Chunking.5.3 AlignmentsTo facilitate the comparative study of paralleldocuments, source texts were automaticallyaligned with their translations.
Alignments at thesentence level were performed semi-automatically by means of the ILSP Aligner,which is a language independent tool that usessurface linguistic information coupled with in-formation about possible unit delimiters depend-ing on the level at which the alignment is sought.The resulting translation equivalents were storedin files conformant to the internationally accred-ited TMX standard (Translation Memory eX-change, http://www.lisa.org/tmx/), which isXML-compliant, vendor-neutral open standardfor storing and exchanging translation memoriescreated by Computer Aided Translation (CAT)and localization tools.Moreover, terms pertaining to the folklore do-main as well as names of Persons and Locationsidentified in the EL - BG parallel texts weresemi-automatically aligned.
The outcome of theprocess of text alignment at below the sentencelevel was then validated manually.5.4 Tools Customization and metadataharmonizationAs it has already been stated, the tools thatwere deployed for the linguistic processing aregeneric ones that were initially developed fordifferent text types/genres.
Moreover, the data athand posed another difficulty that is, coping witholder/obsolete language usage.
In fact, some ofthe literary works were written in the 19th cen-tury or the beginning of 20th century, and theirlanguage reflects the writing standards of thecorresponding period.Therefore, as it was expected, the overall per-formance of the afore-mentioned tools was lowerthan the one reported for the texts these toolswere initially trained for.To this end, performance at POS-tagging leveldropped from 97% to 77% for the Greek datasince no normalization of the primary data wasperformed.
On the other hand, the BG morpho-logical analyzer coverage, whose benchmark per-formance is 96%dropped to 92 % on poems and folktales and to94% on literary texts and legends.The reason was that the language of processedliterary texts and legends came normalized fromthe sources, while the poems and folktales keptsome percentage of archaic or dialect words.Thus, additionally to the guesser, a post POSprocessing was performed on the unknownwords.
Moreover, the accuracy of the neuralnetwork disambiguator and the rule-based onewas 97 %.
i.e.
the same as for other applications.Processing at the levels of chunks and NEs wereeven lower.
Within the project we had to tune thetools to the specific language types, such as dia-chronically remote texts and domain specifictexts (folklore).
Also, some words with higherdistribution in the target regions appear in someof the works.
In order to deal with them we hadto extend the used lexicons, to create a guesserfor the unknown words and add new rules to thechunk grammar to handle some specific wordorder within the texts.Additionally, the deployment of tools that arespecific to each language and compatible withcompletely distinct annotation standards broughtabout the issue of metadata harmonization.
Tothis end, although the Greek tools were devel-oped to confront to the afore-mentioned annota-tion standards, this was not the case for Bulgar-ian.
The first encoding scheme followed theBulTreeBank morphological and chunkannotation scheme.
Afterwards, the informationwas transferred into the projectscheme in order to be consistent with the Greekdata and applicable for web representation.
As aresult, the morphosyntactic features of the BGtagset, which is a more specialized version of the39Multext-East tagset were mapped onto the rela-tive PAROLE tags.6 The web interfaceAll the data collected (being the primary liter-ary or folklore texts or meta-documents, etc.
)along with their translations, the multi-layeredannotations, and the resulting glossaries wereintegrated in a database platform that was devel-oped to serve as a content management system.Being the backbone of that platform, the meta-data material facilitates the interlinking of similardocuments, and the access to the primary datavia the web.
To this end, a specially designedweb site was developed to satisfy the needs ofend-users (the general public and the specialgroups of researchers and other scientists).
Thewebsite features a trilingual interface (Greek,Bulgarian, English) as well as advanced searchand retrieval mechanisms on the entire bilingualcontent or a user-specified part of it.
The userscan perform combined searches by author name,title, genre, etc.
Furthermore, they can search forsingle keywords/wordforms or for two word-forms that can be a user-specified number ofwords apart from each other.
Searches by lemmaand/or by phrase have been also implemented.The latter rely on a matcher, which tries to linkthe query word(s) with the stored lem-mas/wordforms.
Additionally, a stemmer forGreek and Bulgarian has been used for the on-line stemming of queries, which will then bematched with the already stemmed corpus.
Whenall the above fails, fuzzy matching techniques arebeing employed, facilitating, thus, effectivequery expansion functionality.
Finally, apartfrom wordforms and lemmas, the collection canalso be queried for morphosyntactic tags or anycombination thereof; results, then, come in theform of concordances and statistics (frequencyinformation), hence the relative document(s) canalso be retrieved.
Moreover, users can search thewhole corpus or define a sub-corpus based on theclassification and annotation parameters accom-panying each text, thus, creating sub-corpora of aspecific author, or belonging to a specific genre,text type, domain, time period, etc.In addition, the web interface lets the users tosimultaneously view on screen both Greek andBulgarian texts, aligned and in parallel,, so thatto become acquainted with the comparative as-pects of the two languages or perform specificlinguistic, lexicographic or translation tasks.
Al-ternatively, the user can consult the bilingualglossary of terms and the aligned list of NEs.
Thelatter is often very interesting, especially withrespect to Location entities, since transliterationis usually non-adequate.The design of the web interface effectivelyblends simplicity and advanced functionality sothat to fully support the intended usage scenarios(comparative study of literary and folklore textsequally by specialists, laymen or students, lan-guage and/or literary teaching and learning, lexi-cographic projects, etc.).
Finally, the web inter-face has been enhanced by integrating last gen-eration of synthetic speech technology for bothGreek and Bulgarian.
This speech-enhanced userinterface (S. Raptis et al 2005), offers innovativeweb accessibility for blind and vision impairedGreek and Bulgarian users as well as for otherusers who use speech as their preferable modal-ity to information access.
The key-feature of thisweb-speech technology is that it lets users to in-teract with the underlying system; so that theycan hear only the portions of a specific web pagethey are interested in, being able at the same timeto navigate through the entire web site and visitonly the web pages of their choice.7 Conclusions and future workWe have described work targeted at the promo-tion and study of the cultural heritage of thecross-border regions of Greece ?
Bulgaria, thefocus been on literature, folklore and language ofthe two people, by means of modern and techno-logically advanced platforms.
To this end, a digi-tal collection of literary and folklore texts hasbeen compiled along with accompanying mate-rial selected from various (online and printedsources), which is integrated into a platform withadvanced search and retrieval mechanisms.However, the cultural value of the bilingual cul-tural Greek-Bulgarian corpus goes beyond theborder areas that it was intended for, because itshows the similarities and the differences be-tween the two neighboring countries.
More spe-cifically, it can be used for supporting the acqui-sition of the other language in both countries.Also, it can be explored for comparing the cul-tural and social attitudes in diachronic depth andgenre variety.
Apart from the usages from a hu-manities point of view, the corpus can become agood base for testing taggers, parsers and align-ers.
It would especially challenge the processingof the regional dialects, the language of poems,and the language of non-contemporary works.40Future work is being envisaged in the followingdirections: extending the corpus with more texts,and respectively the glossaries ?
with moreterms, adding more layers of linguistic analysis(predicate-argument structure, etc.
), and furtherenhance search and retrieval with the construc-tion and deployment of an applicable thesaurus.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank the anonymous review-ers for useful suggestions and comments.
Mostof the work presented in this paper was done inthe framework of a project that was funded underthe Community Initiative Programme INTER-REG III A / PHARE CBC Greece ?
Bulgaria.The project was implemented by the Institute forLanguage and Speech Processing (ILSP,www.ilsp.gr) and a group of academics and re-searchers from the Sofia University St. KlimentOhridski (www.uni-sofia.bg).ReferencesAntti Aarne.
1961.
The Types of the Folktale: A Clas-sification and Bibliography.
Translated andEnlarged by Stith Thompson.
2nd rev.
ed.
Helsinki:Suomalainen Tiedeakatemia / FF Communications.Sotiris Boutsis, Prokopis Prokopidis, Voula Giouliand Stelios Piperidis.
2000.
A Robust Parser forUnrestricted Greek Tex.
In Proceedings of the 2ndLanguage and Resources Evaluation Conference,467-473, Athens, Greece.Michel G?n?reux.
2007.
Cultural Heritage DigitalResources: From Extraction to Querying, Lan-guage Technology for Cultural Heritage Data(LaTeCH 2007), Workshop at ACL 2007, June23rd?30th 2007, Prague, Czech Republic.Byron Georgantopoulos and Stelios Piperidis, 2000.Term-based Identification of Sentences for TextSummarization.
In Proceedings of LREC2000Voula Giouli, Alexis Konstandinidis, Elina Desypri,Harris Papageorgiou.
2006.
Multi-domain Multi-lingual Named Entity Recognition: Revisiting &Grounding the resources issue.
In Proceedings ofLREC 2006.IMDI, Metadata Elements for Catalogue Descriptions,Version 2.1, June 2001IMDI, Metadata Elements for Session Descriptions,Version 3.0.4, Sept. 2003.Harris Papageorgiou, L. Cranias, SteliosPiperidis1994.
Automatic alignment in parallelcorpora.
In Proceedings of ACL 1994.Harris Papageorgiou, Prokopis Prokopidis, VoulaGiouli, Iasonas Demiros, Alexis Konstantinidis,and Stelios Piperidis.
2002.
Multi-level XML-basedCorpus Annotation.
Proceedings of the 3nd Lan-guage and Resources Evaluation Conference.Harris Papageorgiou, Prokopis Prokopidis, VoulaGiouli, and Stelios Piperidis.
2000.
A Unified POSTagging Architecture and its Application to Greek.In Proceedings of the 2nd Language and ResourcesEvaluation Conference, Athens, Greece, pp 1455-1462.Stelios Piperidis.
1995.
Interactive corpus basedtranslation drafting tool.
In ASLIB Proceedings47(3), March 1995.Spyros Raptis, I. Spais and P. Tsiakoulis.
2005.
ATool for Enhancing Web Accessibility: SyntheticSpeech and Content Restructuring?.
In Proc.
HCII2005: 11th International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction, 22-27 July, Las Vegas, Ne-vada, USA.Kiril Simov, Z. Peev, M. Kouylekov, A. Simov, M.Dimitrov, and A. Kiryakov.
2001.
CLaRK - anXML-based System for Corpora Development.Corpus Linguistics 2001 Conference.
pp 558-560.Kiril Simov, and Petya Osenova.
A Hybrid System forMorphoSyntactic Disambiguation in Bulgarian.
In:Proc.
of the RANLP 2001 Conference, TzigovChark, Bulgaria, 5-7 September 2001. pages 288-290.Ren?
Witte, Thomas Gitzinger, Thomas Kappler, andRalf Krestel.
2008.
A Semantic Wiki Approach toCultural Heritage Data Management.
LanguageTechnology for Cultural Heritage Data (LaTeCH2008), Workshop at LREC 2008, June 1st, 2008,Marrakech, Morocco.41
