Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on GEMS: GEometical Models of Natural Language Semantics, pages 9?16,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsWord Space Models of Lexical VariationYves PeirsmanResearch Foundation ?
Flanders &QLVL, University of LeuvenLeuven, Belgiumyves.peirsman@arts.kuleuven.beDirk SpeelmanQLVL, University of LeuvenLeuven, Belgiumdirk.speelman@arts.kuleuven.beAbstractIn the recognition of words that are typicalof a specific language variety, the classickeyword approach performs rather poorly.We show how this keyword analysis can becomplemented with a word space modelconstructed on the basis of two corpora:one representative of the language varietyunder investigation, and a reference cor-pus.
This combined approach is able torecognize the markers of a language va-riety as words that not only have a sig-nificantly higher frequency as comparedto the reference corpus, but also a differ-ent distribution.
The application of wordspace models moreover makes it possibleto automatically discover the lexical alter-native to a specific marker in the referencecorpus.1 IntroductionDifferent varieties of the same language oftencome with their lexical peculiarities.
Some wordsmay be restricted to a specific register, while otherones may have different meanings in different re-gions.
In corpus linguistics, the most straightfor-ward way of finding such words that are typicalof one language variety is to compile a corpus ofthat variety and compare it to a reference corpusof another variety.
The most obvious comparisontakes on the form of a keyword analysis, whichlooks for the words that are significantly more fre-quent in the one corpus as compared to the other(Dunning, 1993; Scott, 1997; Rayson et al, 2004).For the purposes of a language-variational study,this classic keyword approach often does not suf-fice, however.
As Kilgarriff has argued, keywordstatistics are far too sensitive to high frequenciesor topical differences to be used in the study of vo-cabulary differences (Kilgarriff, 2001).
We there-fore put forward an approach that combines key-word statistics with distributional models of lex-ical semantics, or word space models (Sahlgren,2006; Bullinaria and Levy, 2007; Pado?
and Lap-ata, 2007; Peirsman, 2008).
In this way, we notonly check whether two words have significantlydifferent frequencies in the two relevant languagevarieties, but also to what degree their distributionvaries between the corpora.In this paper, we will focus on the lexical dif-ferences between two regional varieties of Dutch.Dutch is interesting because it is the official lan-guage of two neighbouring countries, Belgium andthe Netherlands.
Between these two countries,there exists a considerable amount of lexical vari-ation (Speelman et al, 2006).
There are wordsmuch more frequently used in one of the two va-rieties as well as terms that have a different mean-ing in the two regions.
We will call such wordsmarkers of a specific lect ?
a general term for re-giolects, dialects, or other language varieties thatare specific to a certain region, genre, etc.
By con-structing a word space model on the basis of twocorpora instead of one, we will show how the dis-tributional approach to lexical semantics can aidthe recognition of such lectal variation.In the next section, we will point out the weak-nesses of the classic keyword approach, and showhow word space models can provide a solution.
Insection 3, we will discuss how our approach recog-nizes markers of a given lect.
In section 4, we willdemonstrate how it can automatically find the al-ternatives in the other language variety.
Section 5wraps up with conclusions and an outlook for fu-ture research.2 Bilectal Word SpacesIntuitively, the most obvious way of looking forwords that mark a particular language variety, isto take a corpus that represents this variety, andcalculate its keywords with respect to a reference9?2 log-likelihoodkeyword ?2 keyword log-likelihoodfrank/noun (?franc?)
262492.0 frank/noun (?franc?)
335587.3meer/adj (?more?)
149505.0 meer/adj (?more?)
153811.6foto/noun (?photograph?)
84286.7 Vlaams/adj (?Flemish?)
93723.2Vlaams/adj (?Flemish?)
83663.0 foto/noun (?photograph?)
87235.1veel/adj (?much?/?many?)
73655.5 vrijdag/noun (?Friday?)
77865.5Belgisch/adj (?Belgian?)
62280.2 veel/adj (?much?/?many?)
74167.1vrijdag/noun (?Friday?)
59135.9 Belgisch/adj (?Belgian?)
64786.0toekomst/noun (?future?)
42440.5 toekomst/noun (?future?)
55879.1dossier/noun (?file?)
34623.3 dossier/noun (?file?)
45570.0Antwerps/adj (?Antwerp?)
33659.1 ziekenhuis/noun (?hospital?)
44093.3Table 1: Top 10 keywords for the Belgian newspaper corpus, as compared to the Twente Nieuws Corpus.corpus (Dunning, 1993; Scott, 1997; Rayson et al,2004).
This keyword approach has two importantweaknesses, however.
First, it has been shown thatstatistically significant differences in the relativefrequencies of a word may arise from high abso-lute frequencies rather than real lexical variation(Kilgarriff, 2001).
Second, in the explicit com-parison of two language varieties, the keyword ap-proach offers no way of telling what word in thereference corpus, if any, serves as the alternativeto an identified marker.
Word space models offera solution to both of these problems.We will present this solution on the basis of twocorpora of Dutch.
The first is the Twente NieuwsCorpus (TwNC), a 300 million word corpus ofNetherlandic Dutch newspaper articles from be-tween 1999 and 2002.
The second is a corpus ofBelgian Dutch we compiled ourselves, with thegoal of making it as comparable to the TwenteNieuws Corpus as possible.
With newspaper arti-cles from six major Belgian newspapers from theyears 1999 to 2005, it totals over 1 billion wordtokens.
Here we will work with a subset of thiscorpus of around 200 million word tokens.2.1 KeywordsAs our starting point, we calculated the keywordsof the Belgian corpus with respect to the Nether-landic corpus, both on the basis of a chi-square test(with Yates?
continuity correction) (Scott, 1997)and the log-likelihood ratio (Dunning, 1993).
Weconsidered only words with a total frequency ofat least 200 that moreover occurred at least fivetimes in each of the five newspapers that make upthe Belgian corpus.
This last restriction was im-posed in order to exclude idiosyncratic languageuse in any of those newspapers.
The top ten re-sulting keywords, listed in Table 1, show an over-lap of 90% between the tests.
The words fall intoa number of distinct groups.
Frank, Vlaams, Bel-gisch and Antwerps (this last word appears only inthe ?2 top ten) indeed typically occur in BelgianDutch, simply because they are so tightly con-nected with Belgian culture.
Dossier may reflecta Belgian preference for this French loanword.Why the words meer, veel, vrijdag, toekomst andziekenhuis (only in the log-likelihood top ten) arein the lists, however, is harder to explain.
Theredoes not appear to be a linguistically significantdifference in use between the two language va-rieties, neither in frequency nor in sense.
Thepresence of foto, finally, may reflect certain pub-lishing habits of Belgian newspapers, but again,there is no obvious difference in use between Bel-gium and the Netherlands.
In sum, these Belgiankeywords illustrate the weakness of this approachin the modelling of lexical differences betweentwo language varieties.
This problem was alreadynoted by Kilgarriff (2001), who argues that ?
[t]heLOB-Brown differences cannot in general be in-terpreted as British-American differences?.
Oneof the reasons is that ?for very common words,high ?2 values are associated with the sheer quan-tity of evidence and are not necessarily associatedwith a pre-theoretical notion of distinctiveness?.One way to solve this issue is presented by Speel-man et al (2008).
In their so-called stable lexicalmarkers analysis, the word frequencies in one cor-pus are compared to those in several reference cor-pora.
The keyness of a word then corresponds tothe number of times it appears in the resulting key-word lists of the first corpus.
This repetitive test10helps filter out spurious keywords whose statisticalsignificance does not reflect a linguistically signif-icant difference in frequency.
Here we explore analternative solution, which scores candidate mark-ers on the basis of their contextual distribution inthe two corpora, in a so-called bilectal word space.2.2 Bilectal Word SpacesWord space models (Sahlgren, 2006; Bullinariaand Levy, 2007; Pado?
and Lapata, 2007; Peirsman,2008) capture the semantic similarity between twowords on the basis of their distribution in a cor-pus.
In these models, two words are similar whenthey often occur with the same context words, orwhen they tend to appear in the same syntactic re-lationships.
For our purposes, we need to build aword space on the basis of two corpora, more orless in the vein of Rapp?s (1999) method for theidentification of translation equivalents.
The maindifference is that we use two corpora of the samelanguage, each of which should be representativeof one of the language varieties under investiga-tion.
All other variables should be kept as constantas possible, so that we can attribute differences inword use between the two corpora to lexical dif-ferences between the two lects.
Next, we selectthe words that occur in both corpora (or a subsetof the nmost frequent words to reduce dimension-ality) as the dimensions of the word space model.For each target word, we then build two contextvectors, one for each corpus.
These context vec-tors contain information about the distribution ofthe target word.
We finally calculate the similaritybetween two context vectors as the cosine of theangle between them.One crucial parameter in the construction ofword space models is their definition of distribu-tion.
Some models consider the syntactic relation-ships in which a target word takes part (Pado?
andLapata, 2007), while other approaches look at thecollocation strength between a target and all of thewords that occur within n words to its left andright (Bullinaria and Levy, 2007).
With these lastword-based approaches, it has been shown thatsmall context sizes in particular lead to good mod-els of the semantic similarity between two words(Bullinaria and Levy, 2007; Peirsman, 2008).
Sofar, we have therefore performed experiments withcontext sizes of one, two and three words to theleft and right of the target.
These all gave very sim-ilar results.
Experiments with other context sizesand with syntactic features will be carried out inthe near future.
In this paper, we report on theresults of a word-based model with context sizethree.In order to identify the markers of BelgianDutch, we start from the keyword lists above.
Foreach of the keywords, we get their context vectorfrom the Belgian corpus, and find the 100 mostsimilar context vectors from the Netherlandic cor-pus.
The words that correspond to these contextvectors are called the ?nearest neighbours?
to thekeyword.
In the construction of our word spacemodel, we selected from both corpora the 4,000most frequent words, and used the cross-sectionof 2,538 words as our set of dimensions or contextfeatures.
The model then calculated the point-wisemutual information between the target and eachof the 2,538 context words that occurred at leasttwice in its context.
All words in the NetherlandicDutch corpus with a frequency of at least 200, plusthe target itself, were considered possible nearestneighbours to the target.Generally, where there are no major differencesin the use of a keyword between the two lects,it will have itself as its nearest neighbour.
Ifthis is not the case, this may identify the key-word as a marker of Belgian Dutch.
For exam-ple, six words from the lists above have them-selves as their nearest neighbour: meer, foto, veel,vrijdag, toekomst and ziekenhuis.
These are in-deed the keywords that made little sense from alanguage-variational perspective.
Dossier is itsown second nearest neighbour, which indicatesthat there is slightly less of a match between itsBelgian and Netherlandic use.
Finally, the wordslinked to Belgian culture ?
frank, Vlaams, Bel-gisch and Antwerps ?
are much lower in theirown lists of nearest neighbours, or totally absent,which correctly identifies them as markers of Bel-gian Dutch.
In short, the keyword analysis ensuresthat the word occurs much more frequently in Bel-gian Dutch than in Netherlandic Dutch; the wordspace approach checks if it also has a different dis-tribution in the two corpora.For markers of Belgian Dutch, we can interpretthe nearest neighbour suggested by the system asthe other variety?s alternative to that marker.
Forinstance, dossier has rapport as its nearest neigh-bour, a synonym which indeed has a high keywordvalue for our Netherlandic Dutch corpus.
Simi-larly, the culture-related words have their Dutch11equivalents as their distributionally most simi-lar words: frank has gulden (?guilder?
), Vlaamsand Belgisch both have Nederlands (?Dutch?
), andAntwerps has Amsterdams (?Amsterdam (adj.)?
).This makes intuitive sense if we take meaning tobe a relative concept, where for instance a con-cept like ?currency of this country?
is instantiatedby the franc in Belgium and the guilder in Holland?
at least in the pre-Euro period.
These findingssuggest that our combined method can be appliedmore generally in order to automatically discoverlexical differences between the two language vari-eties.3 Recognizing lectal differencesFirst we want to investigate whether a bilectalword space model can indeed contribute to the cor-rect identification of markers of Belgian Dutch ona larger scale.
We therefore had both types ofapproaches ?
the simple keyword approach andthe combined method ?
suggest a top 2,000 ofpossible markers on the basis of our two corpora.The combined approach uses the same word spacemethod we described above, with 2,538 dimen-sions and a context size of three.
Basing itselfon the lists of nearest neighbours, it then reordersthe list of keywords, so as to arrive at a rankingthat reflects lectal variation better than the originalone.
To this goal, each keyword receives a newscore, which is the multiplication of two individ-ual numbers.
The first number is its rank in theoriginal keyword list.
At this point we consideredonly the 5,000 highest scoring keywords.
The sec-ond is based on a list that ranks the words accord-ing to their difference in distribution between thetwo corpora.
Words that do not occur in their ownlist of 100 nearest neighbours appear at the top ofthe list (rank 1), followed by words that are theirown 100th nearest neighbour (rank 2), and so onto the words that have themselves as nearest neigh-bour (rank 101).
In the future we plan to considerdifferent numbers of neighbours in order to pun-ish words with very different distributions moreor less heavily.
At this stage, however, restrict-ing the method to 100 nearest neighbours givesfine results.
These two ranks are then multipliedto give a combined score, on the basis of which afinal list of candidates for lectal variation is com-puted.
The lower this combined score (reflectingeither high keyword values, very different distri-butions in the two corpora, or both), the highercandidate marker evaluationfrank/noun (?franc?)
cultureVlaams/adj (?Flemish?)
culturematch/noun (?match?)
literatureinfo/noun (?info?
)rijkswacht/noun (?state police?)
RBBNweekend/noun (?weekend?
)schepen/noun (?alderman?)
RBBNfr./noun (?franc?)
cultureprovinciaal/adj (?provincial?)
RBBNjob/noun (?job?)
RBBNTable 2: Top ten candidate markers suggested bythe combined method on the basis of the log-likelihood ratio.the likelihood that the word is a marker of BelgianDutch.
This approach thus ensures that words thathave very different distributions in the two corporaare promoted with respect to the original keywordlist, while words with very similar distributions aredowngraded.As our Gold Standard we used the ReferenceList of Belgian Dutch (Referentiebestand BelgischNederlands, RBBN), a list of almost 4,000 wordsand expressions that are typical of Belgian Dutch(Martin, 2005).
These are classified into a numberof groups ?
culturally-related terms (e.g., namesof political parties), Belgian markers that are notlexicalized in Netherlandic Dutch, markers thatare lexicalized in Netherlandic Dutch, etc.
Weused a subset of 717 one-word nouns, verbs andadjectives that appear at least 200 times in ourBelgian corpus to evaluate our approach.
Evenif we informally explore the first ten candidatemarkers, the advantages of combining the log-likelihood ratio with the word space model alreadybecome clear (see table 2).
Four of these candi-dates are in the RBBN gold standard.
Similarly,frank, Vlaams and fr.
are culturally related to Bel-gium, while match has been identified as a typ-ically Belgian word in previous corpus-linguisticresearch (Geeraerts et al, 1999).
Info and week-end are not present in the external sources we con-sulted, but nevertheless show an interesting distri-bution with respect to their respective synonyms.In the Belgian corpus, info occurs more often thanthe longer and more formal information (32,009vs 30,171), whereas in the Dutch corpus the latteris used about 25 times as frequently as the former(1,681 vs 41,429).
Similarly, the Belgian corpus12500 1000 1500 20000.000.050.100.150.200.250.30number of candidatesF?scorechi?squaredlog?likelihoodchi?squared + word spacelog?likelihood + word space0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.50.000.050.100.150.200.250.30recallprecisionchi?squaredlog?likelihoodchi?squared + word spacelog?likelihood + word spaceFigure 1: Precision and recall figures of the keyword methods and the combined approaches.contains far more instances of weekend than ofits synonym weekeinde (35,406 vs 6,390), whilethe Dutch corpus shows the reverse pattern (6,974vs 28,234).
These words are thus far better can-didate markers than the original keywords meer,foto, veel, vrijdag, toekomst or ziekenhuis, whichhave disappeared from the top ten.Let us now evaluate the methods more broadly,on the basis of the top 2,000 keywords they sug-gest.
The left plot in Figure 1 shows their F-scoresin function of the number of suggested markers;the right graph plots precision in function of re-call.
The two keyword approaches score rathersimilarly, with the log-likelihood ratio achievingslightly better results than the chi-square test.
Thissuperiority of the log-likelihood approach was al-ready noted by Rayson et al (2004).
Both com-bined methods give a very clear advantage over thesimple keyword statistics, again with the best re-sults for the log-likelihood ratio.
For example, tenof the first 100 candidates suggested by both key-word approaches are present in our Gold Standard,giving a precision of 10% and a recall of 1.4% (F-score 2.4%).
Adding our word space model makesthis figure rise to 29 correct markers, resulting ina precision of 29% and a recall of 4% (F-score7.1%).
This large advantage in performance ismaintained further down the list.
At 1000 can-didates, the keyword approaches have a recall ofaround 20% (chi-square 19%, log-likelihood 21%)and a precision of around 14% (chi-square 14%,log-likelihood 15%).
At the same point, the com-bined approaches have reached a recall of over30% (chi-square 31%, log-likelihood 32%) witha precision of around 22% (chi-square 22%, log-likelihood 23%).
Expressed differently, the bestkeyword approach needs around 500 candidatesto recover 10% of the gold standard, 1000 to re-cover 20% and 2000 to recover 40%.
This linearincrease is outperformed by the best combined ap-proach, which needs only 300, 600 and 1500 can-didate markers to reach the same recall figures.This corresponds to relative gains of 40%, 40%and 25%.
As these results indicate, the perfor-mance gain starts to diminish after 1000 candi-dates.
Future experiments will help determine ifthis issue can be resolved with different parametersettings.Despite these large gains in performance, thecombined method still has problems with a num-ber of Belgian markers.
A manual analysis ofthese cases shows that they often have severalsenses, only one of which is typical of BelgianDutch.
The Reference List for instance containsfout (?mistake?)
and mossel (?mussel?)
as Belgianmarkers, with their specialized meanings ?foul (insports)?
and ?weakling?.
Not only do these wordshave very low keyword values for the Belgian cor-pus; they also have very similar distributions inthe two corpora, and are their own first and sec-ond neighbour, respectively.
Sometimes a fail-ure to recognize a particular marker is more due13top 100 top 500class n % n %in Gold Standard 29 29% 127 25.4%in Van Dale 11 22% 47 9.4%related 2 2% 23 4.6%cultural terms 25 25% 60 12%total 67 67% 257 51.4%Table 3: Manual analysis of the top 500 wordssuggested by the combined approach.to the results of one individual method.
Thisis for instance the case with the correct Belgianmarker home (?
(old people?s) home?).
Althoughthe word space model does not find this word in itsown list of nearest Netherlandic neighbours, it re-mains low on the marker list due to its fairly smalllog-likelihood ratio.
Conversely, punt, graad andklaar are rather high on the keyword list of theBelgian corpus, but are downgraded, as they havethemselves as their nearest neighbour.
This isagain because their status as a marker only appliesto one infrequent meaning (?school mark?, ?two-year cycle of primary education?
and ?clear?)
in-stead of the dominant meanings (?final stop, point(e.g., in sports)?, ?degree?
and ?ready?
), which areshared between the two regional varieties.
How-ever, this last disadvantage applies to all markersthat are much more frequently used in Belgium butstill sometimes occur in the Netherlandic corpuswith a similar distribution.Finally, because our Gold Standard is not anexhaustive list of Belgian Dutch markers, the re-sults in Figure 1 are an underestimate of real per-formance.
We therefore manually went throughthe top 500 markers suggested by the best com-bined approach and classified them into three newgroups.
The results of this analysis are pre-sented in Table 3.
First, we consulted the VanDale Groot Woordenboek der Nederlandse taal(Den Boon and Geeraerts, 2005), the major dictio-nary of Dutch, which contains about 3,000 wordsmarked with the label ?Belgian Dutch?.
11% ofthe first 100 and 9.4% of the first 500 candidatesthat were initially judged incorrect carry this labelor have a definition that explicitly refers to Bel-gium.
Second, we counted the words that are mor-phologically related to words in the Gold Standardor to Belgian words found in Van Dale.
These arefor instance compound nouns one of whose partsis present in the Gold Standard, which means that0 20 40 60 80 1000.00.20.40.60.81.0number of nearest neighboursrecallnounsadjectivesverbsFigure 2: Percentage of markers of Belgian Dutchwhose Netherlandic alternative is present amongtheir n nearest neighbours.they are correct markers of Belgian Dutch as well.They represent 2% of the top 100 and 4.6% of thetop 500.
Third, we counted the words that are in-herently linked to Belgian culture, mostly in theform of place names.
This group corresponds to25% of the first 100 and 12% of the first 500 can-didate markers.
This suggests that the true preci-sion of our method at 100 and 500 candidates isthus at least 67% and 51.4%, respectively.4 Finding alternativesThe Reference List of Belgian Dutch not onlylists Belgian Dutch words and expressions, butalso gives their Netherlandic Dutch alternative, ifone exists.
Our word space model offers us apromising way of determining this alternative au-tomatically, by looking at the nearest Netherlandicneighbours to a Belgian marker.
As our Gold Stan-dard, we selected from the Reference List thosewords with a frequency of at least 200 in the Bel-gian corpus whose Dutch alternative also had afrequency of at least 200 in the Dutch corpus.
Thisresulted in a test set of 315 words: 240 nouns,45 verbs and 30 adjectives.
For each of thesewords, we used our word space model to find the100 nearest Netherlandic neighbours, again withcontext size three but now with as dimensions allwords shared between the two corpora, in order toimprove performance.
We then determined if the14Dutch alternative was indeed in the list of nearestneighbours to the target.
We started by lookingat the single nearest neighbour only, and then stepby step extended the list to include the 100 nearestneighbours.
If a word had itself among its nearestneighbours, this neighbour was discarded and re-placed by the next one down the list.
The resultsare shown in Figure 2.
11 out of 30 adjectives(36.7%), 10 out of 45 verbs (22.2%) and 56 outof 240 nouns (23.3%) had their Dutch alternativeas their nearest neighbour.
At ten nearest neigh-bours, these figures had risen to 60.0%, 48.9%and 44.6%.
These encouraging results underpinthe usefulness of word space models in language-variational research.A manual analysis of Belgian markers for whichthe approach does not find the Netherlandic alter-native again reveals that a large majority of theseerrors occur when polysemous words have onlyone, infrequent meaning that is typical of Bel-gian Dutch.
For example, the dominant senseof the word tenor is obviously the ?male singer?meaning.
In Belgium, however, this term canalso refer to a leading figure, for instance in apolitical party or a sports discipline.
Since thismetaphorical sense is far less frequent than the lit-eral one, the context vector fails to pick it up, andalmost all nearest Netherlandic neighbours are re-lated to opera or music.
One way to solve thisproblem would be to abandon word space modelsthat build only one context vector per word.
In-stead, we could cluster all individual contexts of aword, with the aim of identifying context clustersthat correspond to the several senses of that word(Schu?tze, 1998).
This is outside the scope of thecurrent paper, however.5 Conclusions and future researchWe have presented an application of word spacemodels to language-variational research.
To ourknowledge, the construction of word space mod-els on the basis of two corpora of the same lan-guage instead of one is new to both variationallinguistics and Natural Language Processing.
Itcomplements the classic keyword approach in thatit helps recognize those keywords that, in additionto their different relative frequencies in two lan-guage varieties, also have a substantially differentdistribution.
An application of this method to Bel-gian Dutch showed that the keywords that pass thistest indeed much more often represent markers ofthe language variety under investigation.
More-over, often the word space model also succeededin identifying the Netherlandic Dutch alternativeto the Belgian marker.As the development of this approach is still in itsearly stages, we have committed ourselves moreto its general presentation than to the precise pa-rameter settings.
In the near future, we thereforeaim to investigate more fully the possible varia-tion that the method allows.
First, we will focuson the implementation of the word space model,by studying word-based models with other contextsizes as well as syntax-based approaches.
Sec-ond, we want to examine other ways in whichthe word-based model and the classic keyword ap-proach can be combined, apart from the multipli-cation of ranks that we have proposed here.
Whilethis large freedom in parameter settings could beseen as a weakness of the proposed method, thefact that we obtained similar results for all settingswe have tried out so far, adds to our confidencethat word space models present a sensible com-plementation of the classic keyword approaches,irrespective of the precise parameter settings.In addition to those modelling issues, there area number of other extensions we would like to ex-plore.
First, the Gold Standard we have used sofar is rather limited in scope.
We therefore planto incorporate more sources on language variationto test the robustness of our approach.
Finally, aswe have observed a number of times, the methodin its present form is not sensitive to possibly in-frequent meanings of a polysemous word.
Thismay be solved by the application of a clusteringapproach that is able to cluster a word?s contextsinto several sense clusters (Schu?tze, 1998).
Still,the promising results in this paper encourage us tobelieve that the current approach has a future as anew method in language-variational research andas a tool for lexicography.ReferencesJohn A. Bullinaria and Joseph P. Levy.
2007.
Ex-tracting semantic representations from word co-occurrence statistics: A computational study.
Be-haviour Research Methods, 39:510?526.Ton Den Boon and Dirk Geeraerts.
2005.
Van DaleGroot Woordenboek van de Nederlandse taal (14eed.).
Van Dale Lexicografie, Utrecht/Antwerp.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statis-15tics of surprise and coincidence.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19:61?74.Dirk Geeraerts, Stefan Grondelaers, and Dirk Speel-man.
1999.
Convergentie en Divergentie in de Ned-erlandse Woordenschat.
Meertens Instituut, Ams-terdam.Adam Kilgarriff.
2001.
Comparing corpora.
Interna-tional Journal of Corpus Linguistics, 6(1):1?37.Willy Martin.
2005.
Het Belgisch-Nederlandsanders bekeken: het Referentiebestand Belgisch-Nederlands (RBBN).
Technical report, Vrije Uni-versiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Holland.Sebastian Pado?
and Mirella Lapata.
2007.Dependency-based construction of semantic spacemodels.
Computational Linguistics, 33(2):161?199.Yves Peirsman.
2008.
Word space models of seman-tic similarity and relatedness.
In Proceedings of the13th ESSLLI Student Session, pages 143?152.Reinhard Rapp.
1999.
Automatic identification ofword translations from unrelated English and Ger-man corpora.
In Proceedings of the 37th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (ACL), pages 519?526, College Park, Mary-land.Paul Rayson, Damon Berridge, and Brian Francis.2004.
Extending the cochran rule for the com-parison of word frequencies between corpora.
InProceedings of the 7ie`mes Journe?es Internationalesd?Analyse Statistique des Donne?es Textuelles (JADT2004), pages 926?936, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.Magnus Sahlgren.
2006.
The Word-Space Model.Using Distributional Analysis to Represent Syntag-matic and Paradigmatic Relations Between Wordsin High-dimensional Vector Spaces.
Ph.D. thesis,Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.Hinrich Schu?tze.
1998.
Automatic word sense dis-crimination.
Computational Linguistics, 24(1):97?124.Mike Scott.
1997.
PC analysis of key words ?
and keykey words.
System, 25(2):233?245.Dirk Speelman, Stefan Grondelaers, and Dirk Geer-aerts.
2006.
A profile-based calculation of re-gion and register variation: The synchronic and di-achronic status of the two main national varietiesof Dutch.
In Andrew Wilson, Dawn Archer, andPaul Rayson, editors, Corpus Linguistics around theWorld, pages 195?202.
Rodopi, Amsterdam.Dirk Speelman, Stefan Grondelaers, and Dirk Geer-aerts.
2008.
Variation in the choice of adjectivesin the two main national varieties of Dutch.
InGitte Kristiansen and Rene?
Dirven, editors, Cogni-tive Sociolinguistics.
Language Variation, CulturalModels, Social Systems, pages 205?233.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin.16
