Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Grammar Engineering Across Frameworks, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 10?18,Suntec, Singapore, 6 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPDeveloping German Semantics on the basis of Parallel LFGGrammarsSina Zarrie?Department of LinguisticsUniversity of Potsdam, Germanysina@ling.uni-potsdam.deAbstractThis paper reports on the develop-ment of a core semantics for Germanwhich was implemented on the ba-sis of an English semantics that con-verts LFG f-structures to flat meaningrepresentations in a Neo-Davidsonianstyle.
Thanks to the parallel designof the broad-coverage LFG grammarswritten in the context of the ParGramproject (Butt et al, 2002) and thegeneral surface independence of LFGf-structure analyses, the developmentprocess was substantially facilitated.We also discuss the overall architec-ture of the semantic conversion sys-tem from a crosslinguistic, theoreticalperspective.1 IntroductionThis paper reports on the development of acore semantics for German which was imple-mented on the basis of an English semanticsthat converts LFG f-structures to flat mean-ing representations in a Neo-Davidsonianstyle.
The development strategy relies on theparallel design of the broad-coverage LFGgrammars written in the context of the Par-Gram project (Butt et al, 2002).
We willfirst describe the overall architecture of thesemantic conversion system as well as thebasic properties of the semantic representa-tion.
Section 3 discusses the developmentstrategy and the core semantic phenomenacovered by the German semantics.
In sec-tion 3.4, we will discuss the benefits and thelimitations of the presented architecture forcrosslingual semantics by means of an ex-ample phenomenon, the semantics of clause-embedding verbs.
The rest of this introduc-tion will be devoted to the broader theoreti-cal context of this work.Recently, the state of the art in wide-coverage parsing has made wide-coverage se-mantic processing come into the reach of re-search in computational semantics (Bos etal., 2004).
This shift from the theoret-ical conception of semantic formalisms towide-coverage semantic analysis raises manyquestions about appropriate meaning repre-sentations as well as engineering problemsconcerning the development and evaluationstrategies of semantic processing systems.The general aim of this work is to explorewide-coverage LFG syntax as a backbone forlinguistically motivated semantic processing.Research in the framework of LFG has tra-ditionally adopted a crosslingual perspectiveon linguistic theory (Bresnan, 2000).
In thecontext of the ParGram project, a numberof high quality, broad-coverage grammars forseveral languages have been produced overthe years (Butt et al, 2002; Butt and King,2007).1 The project?s research methodologyparticularly focusses on parallelism whichmeans that the researchers rely on a com-mon syntactic theory as well as developmenttools, but which also concerns parallelism onthe level of syntactic analyses.
As the LFGformalism assumes a two-level syntax that di-1Also see the webpage for a nice project overview:http://www2.parc.com/isl/groups/nltt/pargram/10vides the analysis into a more language andsurface dependent constituent structure anda functional structure which basically repre-sents the surface independent grammaticalrelations of a sentence, it constitutes a partic-ularly appropriate basis for large-scale, mul-tilingual syntax.Parallel grammar development bears thepractical advantage that the resources de-velopped for a particular language can of-ten easily be ported to related languages.Kim et al (2003) report that the KoreanParGram grammar was constructed in twomonths by adapting the Japanese grammarfor Korean.
Moreover, parallel grammarshave a straightforward application in multi-lingual NLP tasks like machine translation(Frank, 1999).A general motivation for multilingual, deepgrammars are higher-level NLP tasks whichinvolve some kind of semantic or meaning-sensititive processing (Butt and King, 2007).The work presented in this paper shows thatparallel grammar development not only fa-cilitates porting of grammars, but substan-tially facilitates the development of resourcesand applications that involve such a par-allel grammar.
We rely on the semanticconversion system presented in (Crouch andKing, 2006) to implement a system that de-rives semantic representations from LFG f-structures for German.
Due to the paral-lelism of syntactic f-structure input, the Ger-man core semantics could be implementedwithin a single month.2 F-Structure Rewriting as anLFG SemanticsSince the early days of LFG, there hasbeen research on interfacing LFG syntaxwith various semantic formalisms (Dalrym-ple, 1999).
For the English and JapaneseParGram grammar, a broad-coverage, gluesemantic construction has been implementedby (Crouch, 1995; Umemoto, 2006).
In con-trast to these approaches, the semantic con-version described in (Crouch and King, 2006)is not driven by a specific semantic theoryabout meaning representation, nor by a the-oretically motivated apparatus of meaningconstruction.
Therefore, we will talk about?semantic conversion?
instead of ?construc-tion?
in this paper.The main idea of the system is to convertthe surface-independent, syntactic relationsand features encoded in an f-structure to nor-malized semantic relations.
The representa-tion simplifies many phenomena usually dis-cussed in the formal semantic literature (seethe next section), but is tailored for use inQuestion Answering (Bobrow et al, 2007a)or Textual Entailment (Bobrow et al, 2007b)applications.The semantic conversion was implementedby means of the XLE platform, usedfor grammar development in the ParGramproject.
It makes use of the built-in trans-fer module to convert LFG f-structures tosemantic representations.
The idea to usetransfer rules to model a semantic concstruc-tion has also been pursued by (Spreyer andFrank, 2005) who use the transfer module tomodel a RMRS semantic construction for theGerman treebank TIGER .2.1 The Semantic RepresentationAs a first example, a simplified f-structureanalysis for the following sentence and thecorresponding semantic representation aregiven in figure 1.
(1) In the afternoon, John was seen in the park.The basic idea of the representation exem-plified in figure 1 is to represent the syntacticarguments and adjuncts of the main predi-cate in terms of semantic roles of the contextintroduced by the main predicate or somehigher semantic operator.
Thus, the gram-matical roles of the main verb in sentence(1) are semantically normalized such that thesubject of the passive becomes a theme andan unspecified agent is introduced, see fig-ure 1.
The role of the modifiers are speci-11fied in terms of their head preposition.
Thistype of semantic representation is inspired byNeo-Davidsonian event semantics (Parsons,1990).
Other semantic properties of the eventintroduced by the main verb such as tense ornominal properties such as quantification andcardinality are explicitely encoded as conven-tionalized predications.The contexts can be tought of as propo-sitions or possible worlds.
They are headedby an operator that can recursively embedfurther contexts.
Context embeddings canbe induced by lexical items or syntactic con-structions and include the following opera-tors: (i) negation (ii) sentential modifiers(possibly) (iii) coordination with or (iv) con-ditionals (v) some subordinating conjunc-tions (without) (vi) clause-embedding verbs(doubt).The representation avoids many formal se-mantic complexities typically discussed inthe literature, for instance the interpreta-tion of quantifiers by encoding them as con-ventionalized semantic predications.
Giventhis skolemized first-order language, thetask of textual entailment can be conceivedas matching the hypothesis representationagainst the semantic representation of thetext where higher-order reasonning is ap-proximated by explicit entailment rules (e.g.all entails some, past does not entail present),see (Bobrow et al, 2007b) for a presentationof an RTE system based on this semantic rep-resentation.2.2 The Semantic ConversionThe XLE transfer module, which we use forthe implementation of the conversion of f-structures to semantic representations, is aterm rewrite system that applies an orderedlist of rewrite rules to a given f-structureinput and yields, depending on the rewriterules, new f-structures (e.g.
translated f-structures) or semantic representations.
Thetechnical features of the XLE transfer mod-ule are described in (Crouch et al, 2006).An important feature for large-scale develop-+VTYPE(%V, %%), +PASSIVE(%V,+),OBL-AG(%V, %LogicalSUBJ), PTYPE(%LogicalSUBJ,%%),OBJ(%LogicalSUBJ,%P)==> SUBJ(%V, %P), arg(%V,%N,%P).Figure 2: Example rewrite rule for passivenormalizationment is for instance the mechanism of packedrewriting that allows for an efficient represen-tation and processing of ambigous f-structureanalyses.The semantic conversion, as described in(Crouch and King, 2006), is not a priori con-strained by a formal apparatus of meaningassembly.
The main intuition of the con-version is that the embeddings encoded inthe syntactic analysis have to be normalizedor reencoded in a way such that they cor-respond to a semantic embedding.
An ex-ample rewrite rule which applies to passivef-structure analyses and converts them to anactive analysis is given in figure refpassive-fig.In order to be maintainable and extensible,the set of transfer rules producing the seman-tic representations are organized in a modu-lar way.
The main steps of the semantic con-version are given in the following: (i) Flat-tening of syntax specific f-structure embed-dings that don?t correspond to semantic em-beddings (ii) Canonicalization of grammati-cal relations (e.g.
depassivization) (iii) Mark-ing of items that induce a semantic embed-ding (which is not encoded in the f-structure)(iv) Linking of f-structure scopes and contextof the semantic representation.
(v) Remov-ing of f-structure specific features.An explicitely modular conception of thetransfer procedure also facilitates its port-ing to other languages.
Thus, steps 1 and2 (and partly 3) may be dependent on thelanguage specific f-structure encoding, whilethe general steps from 3 and 5 don?t have tobe changed at all when porting the transferrules to another language.12?????????????????????????
?pred ?see?NULL,(?
SUBJ)??subj???
?pred ?John?case nomgend-sem male...
...????adjunct??????????????????????????????
?pred ?in?(?
OBJ)?
?obj[pred ?afternoon?case obl]???????
?pred ?in?(?
OBJ)?
?obj[pred ?park?case obl]????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?ctx_head(t,see),in_ctx(t, past(see)),in_ctx(t, cardinality(John,sg)),in_ctx(t, cardinality(afternoon,sg)),in_ctx(t, cardinality(park,sg)),in_ctx(t, specifier(afternoon,the)),in_ctx(t, specifier(park,the)),in_ctx(t, time_expr(afternoon:8,+)),in_ctx(t, proper_name(John,name,John)),in_ctx(t, role(Agent,see,agent_pro)),in_ctx(t, role(Theme,see,John)),in_ctx(t, role(prep(in),see,afternoon)),in_ctx(t, role(prep(in),see,park))Figure 1: LFG f-structure analysis and corresponding semantic representation3 From English to GermanSemantics3.1 Semantic Grammar DevelopmentIn contrast to the various gold standard tree-banks available for the development and eval-uation of parsers, gold standards for seman-tic representations are hardly available.
Thishas a number of methodological implicationsfor ?semantic grammar?
development.
Forinstance, the authors in (de Paiva and King,2008) argue for large-scale development of asemantics that is based on an application-oriented testsuite of entailment pairs insteadof sentences and their theoretically correctrepresentations.
However, in the context ofthis work, we didn?t focus on a semantic ap-plication, but we wanted to assess the porta-bility of the semantic representations to otherlanguages directly.
Adopting such a theory-driven perspective on semantic grammar de-velopment, the only possibility to account forthe accuracy of the semantic construction isto manually inspect the output of the systemfor a necessarily small set of input sentences.Moreover, the transfer scenario compli-cates the assessment of the system?s cover-age.
While in (Bos et al, 2004), the coverageof the meaning construction can be quanti-fied by the number of syntactic analysis thatthe construction algorithm can process, thetransfer conversion will never fail on a givensyntactic input.
Since the transfer rules justtry to match the input, the unmatched fea-tures just pass unchanged to the output andwill be probably deleted by some of the catch-all rules which remove remaining syntacticfeatures in the final step of the conversion.Therefore, manual inspection is necessary tosee whether the conversion has processed allthe input it was supposed to process.This limited evaluation scenario entailsthat the semantics developer has to thinkhard about defining the set of phenomena hewants to cover and document precisely whichtype of syntactic phenomena his semanticsintends to assign an interpretation to.
There-fore, in the rest of this section, we will tryto give a concrete overview of the type ofphenomena that is covered by the English-German semantics.3.2 A Parallel TestsuiteIn consequence to these considerations onevaluation, a central aspect of our develop-ment metholodogy is a testsuite of Germansentences which represents the ?core seman-tics?
that our systems covers.
The multi-13lingual perspective provided a major orien-tation for the composition of this testsuite.As our base English semantics implicitely de-fines a set of core phenomena interpreted bythe syntax-semantic interface, we dispose of aset of grammatical f-structure relations thatreceive a particular semantic representation.Fortunately, the developers of the English se-mantics had documented many ?core?
trans-fer rules (assuring the normalization and con-text embedding) with example phrases orsentences such that one could easily recon-struct the type of phenomenon each transferrule was intended to analyze.On the basis of this system documenta-tion, we first conceived an English testsuitewhere each sentence contained a construc-tion related to the application of a specifictransfer rule.
For each of the sentences weselected a German sentence which exhibitedthe German counterpart of the phenomenontargeted in the English sentence.
For in-stance, if a transfer rule for relative clausesfired on a given English sentence we trans-lated the German sentence such that it con-tained a relative clause.
As most of the testsentences target fairly general phenomena atthe syntax-semantic interface (see the nextsection), there was a parallel German realiza-tion of the construction in most of the cases.In cases where no straightforward parallelrealization could be found, we recur to a se-mantically parallel translation.
For instance,the English cleft construction exemplified bythe following sentence of our testsuite, doesnot have a syntactically parallel realizationin German.
In this case, the sentence wastranslated by a ?semantic?
equivalent thatemphasizes the oblique argument.
(2) a.
It is to the store that they went.b.
Zum Markt sind sie gegangen.During the development process, the test-set was further extended.
These extensionswere due to cases where the English gram-mar assigns a uniform analysis to some con-structions that the German gramamr dis-tinguishes.
For instance, while the En-glish grammar encodes oblique argumentsthe same way it encodes direct objects, theGerman grammar has a formally slightly dif-ferent analysis such that rules which fire onobliques in English, don?t fire for German in-put.
Now, the final parallel testsuite com-prises 200 sentence pairs.The following enumeration lists the basicmorpho-syntactic phenomena covered by ourcore semantics testsuite.1.
Sentence types (declaratives, interroga-tives, quotations etc.)2.
Coordination (of various phrase types)3.
Argument - semantic role mapping, in-cluding argument realization normaliza-tion (depassivization etc.)4.
Sentential and verbal modification (dis-cursive, propositional, temporal, etc.)5.
Nominal modification (measures, quan-tifiers, comparatives, etc.)6.
Tense and aspect7.
Appositions and titles8.
Clause-embeddings, relative clauses,gerunds, etc.9.
Predicative and copula constructions10.
TopicalizationIt turns out that the abstract conceptionof LFG f-structure analysis already assumesa major step towards semantic interpreta-tion.
Many global syntactic properties areexplicitely represented as feature-value pairs,e.g.
features for sentence type, mood, tenseand aspect.
Moreover, the f-structure al-ready contains many information about e.g.the type of nominal phrases (proper names,quantified phrases etc.)
or types of modifiers(e.g.
adverb types).
Finally, this also jus-tifies our testsuite approach since the rangeof syntactic variation on this abstract level ismuch smaller than on the level of word-order.143.3 Parallel Core SemanticsThe English core semantics developped by(Crouch and King, 2006) comprises 798 (or-dered!)
rewrite rules.
As we hypothesizedthat a major part of the English rules willalso apply to German f-structure input, wefirst copied all English transfer rules to theGerman semantics and then proceeded bymanual error correction: For each Germantest sentence, we manually checked whetherthe transfer semantics produce an interpre-tation of the sentence which is parallel to theEnglish analysis.
In case a mismatch was de-tected, the respective rules where changed oradded in the German transfer rule set.To cover the 200 sentences in our paralleltestsuite, 47 rewrite rules had to be changedout of the 798 rules which constitute the coreEnglish semantics.
Out of these 47 rules, 23rules relate to real structural differences inthe f-structure encoding for German and En-glish.
The rest of the modifications is mainlydue to renamings of the features or lexicalitems that are hard-coded in the transfergrammar.While in a more surface-oriented syntax,it would be hardly possible to design largelyparallel syntax-semantic interfaces for therange of phenomena listed in the last section,the surface-independence (and the resultingrelative crosslingual generality) of LFG f-structures ensures that a major part of theEnglish core semantics straightforward-ly ap-plies to the German input.An impressive illustration of the languageindependence of LFG f-structure analyses inthe ParGram grammars is the pair of anal-yses presented in figure 3, produced by thesemantic conversion for the example pair in(3).
(3) a. Wo hat Tom gestern geschlafen?b.
Where did Tom sleep yesterday?The representation for the German sen-tence was produced by running the Englishtransfer semantics on German syntactic in-put.
Although the word-order of Englishand German questions is governed by dis-tinct syntactic principles, the semantic rep-resentation of the German sentence is almostentirely correct since the f-structure analy-ses abstract from the word-order differences.The only fault in the German representationin 3 is the interpretation of the temporal ad-verb yesterday - gestern.
The transfer rulefor temporal verb modification didn?t fire be-cause the adverb type features for Englishand German differ.3.4 Discussion: Clause-embeddingsand Semantic Fine-graininessThe crosslinguistic parallelism of the seman-tics presented in this paper is also due to therelative coarse-grained level of representationthat interprets many phenomena prone tosubtle crosslingual divergences (e.g.
the in-terpretation of quantifiers or tense and as-pect) in terms of conventionalized predica-tions, e.g.
the interpretation of tense aspast(see) in figure 1.
Thus, the real se-mantic interpretation of these phenomena isdeferred to later representation or processinglayers, as in this framework, to the defini-tion of entailment relations (Bobrow et al,2007b).
A meaning representation that de-fers much of the semantic interpretation tothe formulation of entailment rules runs theobvious risk of making to few theoretical gen-eralizations which results in very complex en-tailment rules.
This section will briefly illus-trate this problem by discussing the represen-tation of clause-embeddings in our semantics.The various semantic operators defined bythe semantic conversion to induce an em-bedding (see section 2.1) embed a seman-tic entity of the type context which can beroughly considered as the common semantictype of ?proposition?.
An example for the se-mantic representation of a clause-embeddingverb is given in figure 4.For many semantic applications, such em-bedded contexts are of particular interestsince they often express propositions to15ctx_head(ctx(s),schlafen),ctx_index(t,schlafen),in_ctx(t,interrogative(ctx(s))),in_ctx(ctx(s),perf(schlafen)),in_ctx(ctx(s),pres(schlafen)),in_ctx(ctx(s),query_term(wo)),in_ctx(ctx(s),cardinality(?Tom?,sg)),in_ctx(ctx(s),proper_name(?Tom?,name,?Tom?)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(?Agent?,schlafen,?Tom?)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(adeg,gestern,normal)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(adeg,wo,normal)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(amod,schlafen,gestern)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(amod,schlafen,wo))ctx_head(ctx(s),sleep),ctx_index(t,sleep),in_ctx(t,interrogative(ctx(s))),in_ctx(ctx(s),past(sleep)),in_ctx(ctx(s),query_term(where)),in_ctx(ctx(s),cardinality(?Tom?,sg)),in_ctx(ctx(s),time_expr(yesterday,?+?)),in_ctx(ctx(s),proper_name(?Tom?,name,?Tom?)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(?Agent?,sleep,?Tom?
)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(occurs_during,sleep,yesterday)),in_ctx(ctx(s),role(prep(where),sleep,where))Figure 3: Parallel semantic analyses for the sentence pair given in example (3)whom the speaker is not committed to, i.e.which aren?t veridical.
In our system, theveridicality inferences that these embeddingsexhibit are computed by further knowledgerepresentation modules that explicitely rep-resent the speaker commitment of a context(Bobrow et al, 2007b).
Concerning the com-plements of clause-embedding verbs, theseinferences are modelled via a lexical verbclassification that basically distinguishes im-plicatives (manage to TRUE - don?t manageto FALSE ) and factives (know that TRUE -don?t know that TRUE ) (Nairn et al, 2006).Veridicality entailments of sentential comple-ments are treated as a interaction of the lex-ical class of the subordinating verb and thepolarity of the context.
(4) Tom glaubt, dass der Nachbar ihn nichterkannt hat.
?Tom believes that the neighbour didn?t rec-ognize him.
?This account of clause-embeddings - a uni-fied semantic representation and a lexical en-tailment classification - generalizes and prob-ably simplifies too much the various theoret-ical insights into the semantics of comple-mentation.
In the formal semantics litera-ture, various theories opt for a semantic rep-resentation that assumes several types of ab-stract semantic entities (e.g.
events (Parsons,1990), situations (Barwise and Perry, 1999)or other, very fine-grained categories (Asher,1993) ).
In terms of entailment, the typologi-cal literature reports crosslingually relativelystable distinctions of types of complementsaccording to the semantic relations the ma-trix verbs have to their complement (Givon,1990).
For instance, while in example (5),the infinite complement has causal, tempo-ral and spatial relations to the matrix event,there is no such inferential relation betweenmatrix and complement in example (4) .
(5) Seine Freundin brachte ihn dazu, ein Haus zubauen.His girlfriend made him build a house.Moreover, the semantics of clause-embedding verbs shows subtle distinctionswith resepct to other linguistic features(apart from the polarity of the context) thatcan trigger a particular speaker commit-ment.
For instance, in languages that have amorphological aspect marking (like Frensh,in the following example), the followingaspectually motivated entailments can beobserved (see (Bhatt, 2006)):(6) Jean pouvait soulever cette table, mais il nel?a pas fait.
?Jean was able.IMP to lift this table, but hedidn?t do it.?
(7) Jean a pu soulever cette table, #mais il ne l?apas fait.
?Jean was able.PERF to lift this table,#buthe didn?t do it.
?In sentence (6), the imperfect aspect16causes the modality of the complement suchthat it is not necessarily true, while in sen-tence (7), the embedded clause is neces-sarily true due to the perfective aspect ofthe clause-embedding verb.
This aspectualmatrix-com-plement relation is however onlyobservable for certain types of modality orclause-embedding verbs and has no clear se-mantic parallel in other languages that don?thave aspectual marking.For another type of clause-embeddingverbs, called epistemic verbs, the recent for-mal semantics literature discusses many ex-amples where the lexical neutral entailmentclass is overriden by pragmatic interpretationconstraints that cause the embedded com-plement to be interpreted as true althoughthe embedding operator does not entail theveridicality of its complement (Simons, 2006;von Fintel and Gillies, 2007).
As an exam-ple, consider the following text - hypothe-sis pair annotated as a valid entailment inthe Pascal RTE 3 set alough the hypothesisclearly refers to an embedded proposition inthe given text.
(8) Between March and June, scientific observerssay, up to 300,000 seals are killed.
In Canada,seal-hunting means jobs, but opponents sayit is vicious and endangers the species, alsothreatened by global warming.
(9) Hunting endangers seal species.
FOLLOWS(RTE3 ID:225)Such examples suggest that entailmentsconcern various aspects of the meaning ofa sentence or proposition, thus, not only itsveridicality but also its temporal properties,informations about involved agents, spaceand time.
These properties are clearly re-lated to the semantic type of the embeddedclause.Purely lexical entailment rules for clause-em-bedding operators will be very hard toformulate in the light of the complex in-teraction of the various linguistic parame-ters.
These considerations reveal a generaltrade-off between a representation that gen-ctx_head(t,glauben),ctx_head(ctx(kennen),kennen)),ctx_head(ctx(nicht,nicht),in_ctx(t,role(sem_comp,glauben,ctx(nicht))),in_ctx(t,role(sem_subj,glauben,?Andreas?
)),in_ctx(ctx(kennen),role(sem_obj,kennen,pro)),in_ctx(ctx(nicht),role(adeg,nicht,normal)),in_ctx(ctx(nicht),role(amod,ctx(kennen),nicht)Figure 4: Example representation for contextembeddings, sentence (4)eralizes over many (purely) theoretical andcrosslingual subtleties and a representationthat does not capture certain generalizationswhich would lead to a more linguistically in-formed account of entailment relations.
Fu-ture work on the semantics presented in thispaper will have to take such tensions into ac-count and think about the general goals andapplications of the semantic representation.4 ConclusionThis work amply illustrates the positiveimplications of crosslinguistic, parallely de-signed resources for large-scale linguistic en-gineering.
Due to the abstract f-structurelayer in LFG syntax and its parallel imple-mentation in the ParGram project, furtherresources that build on f-structure represen-tations can be very easily ported to other lan-guages.
Future research will have to investi-gate to what extent this also applies to moredistant languages, like Urdu and English forinstance.The paper also discussed some problematicaspects of the development of a large-scalesemantic system.
The crosslingual develop-ment perspective allowed us to define a setof core semantic phenomena covered by therepresentation.
However, from a formal se-mantic view point, the simplifying represen-tation obstructs potential crosslingual differ-ences in semantic interpretation.
Future re-search still has to be conducted to developa more general development and evaluationmethodology for the representation of mean-ing.17ReferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objectsin Discourse.
Studies in Linguistics and Philoso-phy.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.Jon Barwise and John Perry.
1999.
Situations andAttitudes.
CSLI Publications.Rajesh Bhatt, 2006.
Covert Modality in Non-finiteContexts, volume 8 of Interface Explorations, chap-ter Ability modals and their actuality entailments.Mouton de Gruyter.Daniel G. Bobrow, Bob Cheslow, Cleo Condoravdi,Lauri Karttunen, Tracy Holloway King, RowanNairn, Valeria de Paiva, Charlotte Price, andAnnie Zaenen.
2007a.
PARC?s Bridge ques-tion answering system.
In Tracy Holloway Kingand Emily M. Bender, editors, Proceedings ofthe GEAF (Grammar Engineering Across Frame-works) 2007 Workshop, pages 13?15.Daniel G. Bobrow, Bob Cheslow, Cleo Condoravdi,Lauri Karttunen, Tracy Holloway King, RowanNairn, Valeria de Paiva, Charlotte Price, and An-nie Zaenen.
2007b.
Precision-focused textual in-ference.
In ACL-PASCAL Workshop on TextualEntailment and Paraphrasing, pages 28 ?
29.Johan Bos, Stephen Clark, Mark Steedman, James R.Curran, and Julia Hockenmaier.
2004.
Wide-coverage semantic representations from a CCGparser.
In COLING ?04: Proceedings of the 20thinternational conference on Computational Lin-guistics, page 1240, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Joan Bresnan.
2000.
Lexical-Functional Syntax.Blackwell, Oxford.Miriam Butt and Tracy Holloway King.
2007.
XLEand XFR: A Grammar Development Platformwith a Parser/Generator and Rewrite System.In International Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing (ICON) Tutorial.Miriam Butt, Helge Dyvik, Tracy Holloway King, Hi-roshi Masuichi, and Christian Rohrer.
2002.
TheParallel Grammar Project.Richard Crouch and Tracy Holloway King.
2006.Semantics via F-Structure Rewriting.
In MiriamButt and Tracy Holloway King, editors, Proceed-ings of the LFG06 Conference.Dick Crouch, Mary Dalrymple, Tracy King, JohnMaxwell, and Paula Newman, 2006.
XLE Doc-umentation.Dick Crouch.
1995.
Packed Rewriting for MappingSemantics to KR.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Workshop on Computational Semantics.Mary Dalrymple.
1999.
Semantics and Syntax inLexical Functional Grammar: The Resource LogicApproach.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Valeria de Paiva and Tracy Holloway King.
2008.Designing testsuites for grammar-based systemsin applications.
In Proc.
of the COLING GEAFWorkshop 2008.Anette Frank.
1999.
From Parallel Grammar Devel-opment towards Machine Translation (shortenedversion).
In Miriam Butt and Tracy HollowayKing, editors, Proceedings of the LFG-99 Con-ference, CSLI Online Publications, University ofManchester.
Section 4 of: Miriam Butt and Ste-fanie Dipper and Anette Frank and Tracy Hol-loway King.Talmy Givon.
1990.
Syntax, volume 2.
Benjamins.Roger Kim, Mary Dalrymple, Ronald M. Kaplan,Tracy Holloway King, Hiroshi Masuichi, andTomoko Ohkuma.
2003.
Multilingual GrammarDevelopment via Grammar Porting.
.
In ESSLLI2003 Workshop on Ideas and Strategies for Multi-lingual Grammar Development.Rowan Nairn, Cleo Condoravdi, and Lauri Kart-tunen.
2006.
Computing relative polarity for tex-tual inference.
In Inference in Computational Se-mantics (ICoS-5).Terence Parsons.
1990.
Events in the semantics ofEnglish, volume 19 of Current studies in linguisticsseries ; 19.
MIT Pr., Cambridge, Mass.
[u.a.
].Mandy Simons.
2006.
Observations on embeddingverbs, evidentiality, and presupposition.
Lingua.Kathrin Spreyer and Anette Frank.
2005.
TheTIGER 700 RMRS Bank: RMRS Constructionfrom Dependencies.
In Proceedings of LINC 2005,pages 1?10.Hiroshi Umemoto.
2006.
Implementing a JapaneseSemantic Parser Based on Glue Approach.
In Pro-ceedings of The 20th Pacific Asia Conference onLanguage, Information and Computation.Kai von Fintel and Anthony S. Gillies.
2007.An opinionated guide to epistemic modality.
InTamar Gendler Szabo and John Hawthorne, edi-tors, Oxford Studies in Epistomology, Vol.
2.
Ox-ford University Press.18
