Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2009: the 10th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group in Discourse and Dialogue, page 29,Queen Mary University of London, September 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsInvited TalkWhat?s Unique About Dialogue?Hand gestures, figurative language, facial displays,and direct quotationJanet Beavin BavelasDepartment of Psychology, University of Victoria, Victoria, B.C., Canadaweb.uvic.ca/psyc/bavelasbavelas@uvic.caFace-to-face dialogue is the basic site of language use.
Our group?s program of researchfocuses on unique features of face-to-face dialogue, especially the ways in which participantscollaborate moment-by-moment (e.g.
Bavelas et al, 1995; Bavelas and Chovil, 1997; Bavelaset al, 2000, 2002).
Current experiments are showing that the availability of collaborative processesin dialogue significantly affects whether speakers use the modality that Peirce called iconic andClark and Gerrig (1990) called demonstration.
Demonstrations resemble their referents, creatingan image for the addressee; for example, hand gestures, facial displays, direct quotation, andfigurative language are all demonstrations.
We have shown the effect of dialogue on these fourkinds of demonstration by using an experimental design with three conditions: a face-to-facedialogue; a dialogue on the telephone; and a monologue to a tape recorder.
The first experiment ongesture (Bavelas et al, 2008) showed an independent effect of dialogue, over and above the effectof visibility.
The rate of hand gestures was higher in dialogue than in monologue, that is, both theface-to-face and the telephone dialogues had significantly higher rates of gesturing than for thesame task in a monologue.
Figurative language also showed a dialogue effect; for example, therate of figurative language was significantly higher in a telephone dialogue than a monologue to atape recorder.
We have subsequently replicated these two effects in a different data set.
The secondexperiment with the same design examined the effects of dialogue on conversational facial displaysand direct quotations.
Again, the dialogues produced significantly higher rates of these forms ofdemonstration, while the monologues consisted almost entirely of conventional verbal description.We propose that monologue suppresses both verbal and nonverbal forms of demonstration becausedemonstrations require an addressee.
Current research is investigating which particular feature ofspeaker-addressee interaction is essential to the use of demonstrations.ReferencesJ.
B. Bavelas and N. Chovil.
1997.
Faces in dialogue.
In J.
A. Russell and J. M. Fernandez-Dols, editors,The psychology of facial expression, pages 334?346.
Cambridge University Press.J.
B. Bavelas, N. Chovil, L. Coates, and L. Roe.
1995.
Gestures specialized for dialogue.
Personality andSocial Psychology Bulletin, 21:394?405.J.
B. Bavelas, L. Coates, and T. Johnson.
2000.
Listeners as co-narrators.
Journal of Personality and SocialPsychology, 79:941?952.J.
B. Bavelas, L. Coates, and T. Johnson.
2002.
Listener responses as a collaborative process: The role ofgaze.
Journal of Communication, 52:566?580.J.
B. Bavelas, J. Gerwing, C. Sutton, and D. Prevost.
2008.
Gesturing on the telephone: Independent effectsof dialogue and visibility.
Journal of Memory and Language, 58:495?520.H.
H. Clark and R. J. Gerrig.
1990.
Quotations as demonstrations.
Language, 66:764?805.29
