Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technology and Resources for Cultural Heritage,Social Sciences, Humanities, and Education ?LaTeCH ?
SHELT&R 2009, pages 69?76,Athens, Greece, 30 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Role of Metadata in the Longevity of Cultural Heritage ResourcesMilena DobrevaCentre for Digital Library Research,University of Strathclyde26 Richmond Street Glasgow, G11XH, Scotland, United Kingdommilena.dobreva@strath.ac.ukNikola IkonomovInstitute of Mathematics andInformaticsbl.
8 Acad.
G. Bonchev St.1113 Sofia, Bulgarianikonomov@gmail.comAbstractDigital preservation is an integral part ofthe management of information and theinstitutions in the cultural heritage sectorare seeking for ways to incorporate it intotheir everyday practice.
While there aregeneric approaches to long-term preser-vation, further research and developmentwork is needed to address any specificsof the digital objects in the cultural heri-tage domain.
In this paper, we will taketwo case studies of recent projects andanalyse to what extent the metadata ac-companying digital objects contribute toguarantee longevity.
We summarize thisanalysis in two scenarios for sustainabil-ity of resources produced by small pro-jects because compared to big institutionstheir digital assets are facing a higher risknot to be preserved properly.
We alsoidentify processes where natural lan-guage technologies could be of help tomake the preservation more efficient.1 IntroductionAn evaluation made in August 2008 in a recentCommunication1 of the EC states that ?The ab-sence of clear and comprehensive policies inmany Member States was identified in the Rec-ommendation as a threat to the survival of digi-1 Communication from the Commission to the Council, the Euro-pean Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committeeand the Committee of the Regions Europe?s cultural heritage at theclick of a mouse.
Progress on the digitisation and online accessibil-ity of cultural material and digital preservation across the EU[SEC(08) 2372] of 11 August 2008.
Available:http://ec.europa.eu/information_society/activities/digital_libraries/doc/communications/progress/communication_en.pdftised and born-digital material??
It also pro-vides a good practice example from the UK, theDigital Preservation Coalition.
Although thisBritish experience is given as an example of asuccessful approach, the implementation of pres-ervation in the current digital repositories in theUK is far from being satisfactory.
The recentfinal report of the DRAI project (see Daisy Ab-bott 2008) on UK-based digital repositories iden-tified that ?Of the 3,707collections aggregated,only 737 (20%) had evidence of a preservationpolicy, and of these the vast majority were fromwithin the Arts and Humanities Data Service(AHDS) Collections Repository which, sinceMarch 2008, is no longer funded, leaving only6% of resources with ongoing policies for longterm preservation.
?Why the digital preservation which is recog-nised to be of high importance, is still not im-plemented widely?
The Blue Ribbon Task ForceReport (2008) summarized five major obstaclesin building sustainable digital preservation pro-grams: inadequacy of funding models to addresslong-term access and preservation needs; confu-sion and/or lack of alignment between stake-holders, roles, and responsibilities with respect todigital access and preservation; inadequate insti-tutional, enterprise, and/or community incentivesto support the collaboration needed to reinforcesustainable economic models; complacency thatcurrent practices are good enough; and fear thatdigital access and preservation is too big to takeon.
While these address mostly stakeholder-related issues, a recent report (DPE: 2007) re-viewed the progress of digital preservation re-search world-wide.
It concludes that ?The analy-sis of the last 16 years of effort in the area ofdigital preservation?
support our claim thatwhile much work has been done on the periph-ery, the central problems of digital preservation69have yet to be resolved.?
Automation in digitalpreservation is one of the ten areas named by thisstudy as being in a need of accelerated research.These two reports identify two key areaswhich need attention: the organisational aspectsand the research.
Any institution which currentlyfaces the preservation challenge has to make adifficult choice under the circumstances of therapidly changing technological environment andthe lack of a generally recommended and effec-tive solution.However, the deeper reason why after twodecades of efforts digital preservation still hasnot reached maturity, is the lack of consistenttheoretical foundation.
In 2001, James Cheney etal.
articulated the need to develop a mathematicaltheory for the area of information preservation.Having such a theory should help to understandbetter the object models and the basic transfor-mations which need to be supported in a preser-vation system; it will also be of great benefit toautomation because it would be much more clearwhat processes can be automated.
In addition, acoherent theory would help to identify any gapsin procedures or data flows and thus would con-tribute to the implementation of systems whichbehaviour could be consistently traced.
However,since this first suggestion that a theory of preser-vation is needed, there has not been much pro-gress in developing one.
Even the identificationof the basic elements of a theory of preservationis not a trivial task.In addition to this methodological difficulty,the variety of domains where digital preservationis to be applied brings even more difficulties.
Itis still not clear whether a universal ?one-size-fits-all?
solution could be used in all differentdomains.
For example, in the cultural heritagedomain which is considered in this paper thereare various curatorial situations with regard todigital objects.
Resources prepared by small pro-jects are in more danger with regard to their lon-gevity compared to resources of large institutionsif we consider that they are created but the life-cycle for digital objects curation is not applied infull.
In this paper it is not our aim to investigatewhat is the level of awareness and readiness ofthe whole range of cultural heritage institutionsbut we try to highlight what is the current state inthe digital preservation field and what issuesneed to be addressed by projects in the culturalheritage domain.In 2002, the reference model for an open ar-chival information system (OAIS) was publishedand one year later adopted in the internationalstandard ISO 14721:2003, see (OAIS: 2003).
Itprovides a functional approach which is helpfulto understand and describe the processes in apreservation system.
However, the specificationof the minimum information which should ac-company a digital object in order to guarantee itsaccessibility, interpretability and usability in thefuture, is not addressed in OAIS.There are different ongoing attempts to build atheory of preservation.
Giorgos Flouris and CarloMeghini in 2007 again suggested basing such atheory on firm mathematical foundations andsuch an effort will be made within the CASPAR2project.
Paul Watry in 2007 presented the direc-tions of future research of the SHAMAN3 projectwhich aims to study the context which guaran-tees that the essential properties of digital objectssuch as authenticity and integrity will be main-tained over time.
Reagan Moore and MacKenzieSmith suggested in 2007 a practical approach,which demonstrates how various requirements ofthe preservation systems can be implemented assets of rules.Attempts to find an approach to building a co-herent theory of preservation should also reflectthe specific features of various subject domains.In Section 2 of this paper, we introduce thebasic concepts of the ISO standard in the digitalpreservation domain OAIS4.
Then in Section 3we discuss issues related to the use of metadatafor preservation in the cultural heritage domain.We take two examples of resources under prepa-ration in the TEXTE project5 and the KT-DigiCult-BG6 project and suggest two scenariosfor preservation of the products of small projects.In Section 4 we summarise the issues which needfurther development in the cultural heritage sec-tor in order to address better the issue of longev-ity of the digital resources.2 CASPAR ?
Cultural, Artistic and Scientific knowledgefor Preservation, Access and Retrieval ?
an  Integrated Pro-ject co-financed by the EU within FP6.http://www.casparpreserves.eu/caspar-project3 SHAMAN ?
Sustaining Heritage Access through Multiva-lent ArchiviNg an Integrated Project co-financed by the EUwithin FP7.
http://shaman-ip.eu/4 Open archival information system, see OAIS 2003.5 TEXTE: Transfer of Expertise in Technologies of Editing,funded under the Marie Curie programme of FP6,http://www.nuigalway.ie/mooreinstitute/projects.php?project=156 Knowledge Transfer in Digitisation of Cultural and Scien-tific Heritage to Bulgaria, funded under the Marie Curieprogramme of FP6,http://www.math.bas.bg/digi/indexen.html702 The Basic Standard in the DigitalPreservation Domain: OAISIn response to the increased need for the intro-duction of common practices in assuring longterm digital preservation (DP) of digital objects,the International Standards Organisation (ISO) inthe last decade developed a number of concep-tual DP standards and also some technical guide-lines.
The most popular standard in the area isISO 14721:2003 (Space data and informationtransfer systems ?
Open archival informationsystem ?
Reference model), widely known asOAIS7.It is a conceptual framework which presentsthe main functional components and identifiesthe basic data flows within a digital preservationsystem.
The development of OAIS8 arose fromthe need for a model which would specify thebasic components of a system for long-termpreservation of digital objects and their relation-ships with the ?external world?.In Fig.
1, an OAIS is represented as a boxwhich is connected to other entities from the en-vironment.
These are Producers, Consumers,and Management (OAIS is not suggesting whatroles could be defined within the archive).
Aspecial class of Consumers is the DesignatedCommunity.
The Designated Community is theset of Consumers who should be able to under-stand the preserved information.
?9Figure 1: The OAIS functional entities andenvironment10Within the cultural heritage domain, a specialattention also should be paid to the concept ofdesignated community which is essential for theunderstanding of resources in the future.
Under-standing the actual needs and the level of back-7 A webpage which provides information on the basic stagesof its development is http://nost.gsfc.nasa.gov/isoas/.8 For a record of the activities seehttp://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/nost/isoas/.9 Source: p.2.2-2.3, OAIS (2003).10 Source: Figure 4-1, page 4-1 (OAIS, 2003).ground knowledge of the designated communityis not trivial in this domain, especially in thecases of creating scholarly resources.This in fact opens a new essential issue relatedto the dynamics of resources: while the resourcescreated by memory institutions such as libraries,archives and museums are ?static?
because theyrepresent the resources of the institutions, theresources created by projects tend to be dynamic,because they could be enriched and extended.These resources usually do not cover a fixed setof holdings but are oriented towards a specifictheme and after a core set of resources is avail-able, more materials could be added at laterstages.
Being familiar with the model will helpcultural heritage professionals to organize betterthe digital objects?
lifecycle and take informeddecisions on the preservation aspects of their re-sources.In addition to the definition of these functionalentities, an OAIS information model explains thedata flows between the environment and the ar-chive, and also within the functional componentsof the archive.Every act of submission of information to anOAIS by a Producer, as well as the disseminationof information to a Consumer, occurs either as asingle discrete transmission, or as a series oftransmissions.
To describe the exchange of data,OAIS defines the concept of an InformationPackage as a ?container?
of two types of infor-mation: Content Information (CI) and Preser-vation Description Information (PDI).
TheContent Information and PDI are viewed as be-ing encapsulated and identifiable by the Packag-ing Information (PI).OAIS defines three specialised types of infor-mation packages (IP), namely:?
Archival Information Package (AIP): AnInformation Package, consisting of theContent Information and the associatedPDI, which is preserved within an OAIS.?
Dissemination Information Package (DIP):The Information Package, derived fromone or more AIPs, received by the Con-sumer in response to a request to theOAIS.?
Submission Information Package (SIP):An Information Package that is deliveredby the Producer to the OAIS for use in theconstruction of one or more AIPs.PDI is divided into four types of preservationinformation called Provenance, Context, Refer-71ence, and Fixity.
Provenance describes the sourceof the Content Information; Context describeshow the CI relates to other information outsidethe Information Package.
Reference providesidentifiers, by which the CI may be uniquelyidentified.
Fixity provides a wrapper, which pro-tects the CI from undocumented alteration.
A keypoint to note is that OAIS does not suggest anyspecific metadata as instantiations of PDI; so thatthere is no guidance on what constitutes a mini-mum technical requirement in respect of repre-senting and encoding PDI information withincorresponding PDI data bitstreams.
The defini-tion of a minimum required set of data should bebased on a study of what is required to assure areliable, consistent, and measurable specificationand implementation of a preservation system.The consequences for the cultural heritagedomain is that currently there is no single anduniformly accepted set of elements which guar-antee the longevity of resources; but every singleinstitution and project should consider how tostructure the different types of archival packagesif it establishes and digital archive and also de-cide what metadata need to be stored for preser-vation purposes.In OAIS the closest analogue to the high-levelnotion of metadata can be found in the idea ofrepresentation information while on the imple-mentation level PDI provides the closest notionto a particular instantiation of a set of metadataelements.Having a reference framework for long-termdigital preservation systems had an essential im-pact on the development of a common profes-sional understanding and vocabulary.
It has had asignificant impact on the subsequent develop-ment of standards and as a guide to the setting upof preservation systems.
Yet, the complexity ofthe area allows for multiple interpretations ofhow the framework should be implemented inreal life applications.
This arguably gives rise toa need to develop implementation guidelines andalso to adjust any practical solution to policyframeworks.3 Preservation-Related Metadata3.1 Metadata for Preservation vs. Preser-vation of Existing MetadataThere are two key issues which need to be con-sidered vis-?-vis metadata and preservation.1.
What metadata are needed for preservationpurposes in the cultural heritage domain (be-sides assuring a reliable preservation process,they should help the designated communitiesto understand the resources), and2.
How to preserve the metadata accompanyingexisting digital objects.
Since it is often thecase that cultural heritage resources have ex-tensive metadata and there are multipleschemes used, this issue also touches uponunderstanding and use of present metadataschemes in the future; this issue is very similarto interoperability of metadata schemes butconsidered as interoperability between nowand the future.In the area of preservation metadata, the basicconcern, as stated by Brian Lavoie and RichardGartner, still seems to be the development ofpreservation elements?
schemes (2005).
How-ever, presentation and interoperability issues arenot the only concern: preservation metadata, asall other types of metadata are affected by themetadata bottleneck11, a metaphor which indi-cates that the human efforts needed to createmetadata can not cope with the pace of creationof new digital resources.Another disquieting example comes from a re-cent evaluation of a German national digitisationprogramme which reveals ?insufficient metadatapractice, endangering the usage of the digitaldocuments, not to speak of their preservation:33% of the objects had no metadata at all, 33%bibliographic metadata only, 10% had both bib-liographic and subject metadata (rest: no infor-mation).
Less than a third of the metadata wasdigital.
?12To suggest an OAIS-compliant preservationmetadata solution, in 2002 OCLC (Online Com-puter Library Center, Inc.) and RLG (ResearchLibraries Group) created a working group to ex-plore how a consensus between different projectsand initiatives in the field of preservation meta-data could be achieved.
A body of recommendedmetadata for digital preservation was developedin the next years under the name PREMIS:PREservation Metadata Implementation Strate-gies (see PREMIS (2008)).
The effort of OCLCand RLG to define preservation metadata is amajor development in the digital preservationfield.
However, it analyses only preservationmetadata related to the digital object itself.
Anumber of issues likely to appear in real imple-11 The term metadata bottleneck was coined by E. Liddy in2002.12 DELOS brainstorming on Metadata topics, Juan les Pins,05/12/2005,http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/ukoln/staff/t.koch/pres/Brainst200512-MDc.html72mentation scenarios are not considered, for ex-ample the preservation and re-use of descriptiveand other metadata which might have been sup-plied with the digital object which is of specialimportance in the cultural heritage domain.
Suchmetadata could be of help in generating preserva-tion metadata, or could be later used for search.Having all these in mind, preservation meta-data area provides many challenges.
What pres-ervation metadata to use?
What minimum setneeds to be supplied in order to guarantee a reli-able preservation process?
How to automate thecreation of preservation metadata?
How to guar-antee that the digital resources developed withina particular project are accompanied by sufficientpreservation quality metadata?
And how to guar-antee interoperability between multiple existingschemes?
It is not easy for any organisation orproject to make decisions regarding the metadatain this situation.In the last years there were several metadataschemes developed dedicated to long-term pres-ervation.
In the domain of cultural heritage insti-tutions these new kind of metadata have to becombined with existing descriptive metadatabased on the traditionally used catalogue sys-tems.
Amongst those we are The Metadata En-coding and Transmission Standard13 (METS), acontainer format for metadata and content filesmaintained by the Library of Congress (USA);and LMER (Long-term preservation Metadatafor Electronic Resources)14 developed by theGerman National Library.Currently, researchers come to the conclusionthat the practical preservation activities require tocombine several various metadata schemes toachieve a reliable preservation process.
For ex-ample Angela Dappert and Markus Enders(2008) present an example of integrating METS,PREMIS, and MODS15 metadata in an OAIS-compatible system which aims to ingest, store,and preserve eJournals in the British Library.They demonstrated that no single existing meta-data schema accommodates the representation ofdescriptive, preservation and structural metadatanecessary for such a system.13 http://www.loc.gov/standards/mets/14 LMER description and LMER schema: http://www.d-nb.de/eng/standards/lmer/lmer.htm15 http://www.tei-c.org/index.xml3.2 Two Examples3.2.1.
The TEXTE Project Digital ResourcesTEXTE is an ongoing project coordinated byThe Moore Institute in the National University ofIreland, Galway.
It combines four tasks whichaim to illustrate how the current computer-enhanced editing tools can be used to producevarious types of high-quality scholarly editions(mediaeval manuscripts; correspondence; a set ofjournal issues and ephemera).
The materials aredigitised and then transcribed and encoded usingthe Guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative16.The resulting resources are highly annotatedscholarly editions, a combination of the originaltexts with the scholarly findings.All these resources are built using the sameguidelines for text encoding.
This commonframework facilitates the development of thedigital objects especially with regard to their on-line publication and visualisation and to the an-notation of resources from the same historicaland cultural background.From digital preservation point of view, thereare several issues which need to be taken intoaccount:The TEI P5: Guidelines for Electronic TextEncoding and Interchange17 are not suggestingmetadata elements to be used especially for pres-ervation purposes.
It is essential to have well-formed <TEI.Header> and to document the prin-ciples applied in the encoding of the text; theseare prepared as a part of the project documenta-tion.
But the <TEI.Header> currently does notsupport elements which can help to trace thedigital object?s authenticity, integrity and chainof custody ?
these could be included as addi-tions.
But a difficulty for such projects is the lackof guidance on the significant properties of digi-tal objects which need to be supported.Projects such as TEXTE developing textualresources would benefit from clear guidance onthis matter; currently the project faces the need tofind its own solution.
The final product of TEXTwill be a set of web resources but their inclusioninto repository is still under question; if this hap-pens additional effort will be needed to defineSIPs and to transform currently available XMLfiles into SIPs.16 Metadata Object Description Schema, MODS,http://www.loc.gov/standards/mods/17 http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/index-toc.html73On the other metadata-related issue, the lon-gevity of specific metadata schemes applied inthe cultural heritage domain, the decision to usea widespread encoding framework might be seenas a guarantee of the future usability of re-sources.
This is based on the expectation that theTEI will be continuously supported in the future.3.2.2.
The KT-DigiCult-BG Project DigitalResourcesThe KT-DigiCult-BG project funded by theMarie Curie programme of FP6 was recently fin-ished (in 2008) and one of its outcomes was thecreation of the Digitisation Centre in the Instituteof Mathematics and Mathematics at the Bulgar-ian Academy of Sciences (IMI-BAS).
This cen-tre digitised a substantial number of varioustypes of objects belonging to the Bulgarian cul-tural and scientific heritage (see Table 2).
One ofthe issues the project faced was the organisationand the long-term preservation of these objects.These resources were not deeply annotated andare intended for the most general type of users ?the citizens.
In this case the metadata used in themix of archival materials, old printed books,photographs and periodicals followed variousencodings and were not encoded like the meta-data of the TEXTE project using the sameGuidelines.This heterogeneity of approaches leads to adifferent situation in the produced resources.Currently the digitisation centre team is planningto place all scientific resources into a repositoryusing DSpace18 which will enable the use of itsresources within the DRIVER19 project reposi-tory.Preservation-wise, these resources will betransformed according to this larger initiativerequirements and the relevant SIP will be built.In this scenario the preservation task with regardto the digitised documents prepared for access inPDF format stays with the repository while thedigitisation centre will take care for the physicalcopying of the master files which are stored inTIFF format.
This is a mixed approach wherevarious bodies take care for the preservation ofclusters of digital resources.18 http://www.dspace.org/19 DRIVER: Networking European Scientific Repositories,http://www.driver-repository.eu/.Table 2.
Digitised Resources in 2005-08 in IMI-BASType of material SizeOld printed books (National Li-brary Ivan Vazov, Plovdiv)17,000 pagesState Archives 8,000 pagesResearch Archive of the Acad-emy of Sciences24 archivalunits,1,000 pagesOld periodicals (newspapers) 1,200 pagesMusical periodicals 1,000 pagesArchive of the Higher Attesta-tion Commission8,500 pagesArchive of IMI-BAS 18,000 pagesMathematical heritage (the heri-tage of Prof. Obreshkov)2,000 pagesAudio archive of Bulgarian dia-lects7 hoursMathematical periodicals (1905 -1991)29,000 pagesOld photographs 200 photographsTOTAL 85,900 units3.3 Two Emerging Scenarios for DigitalPreservation of Small Projects?
OutputsTwo scenarios emerge from the analysis of thetwo case studies.Scenario 1.
Preparation of stand-alone re-sources.
Under this scenario, the set of digitalresources is prepared as a stand-alone collectionand does not necessarily become a part of a digi-tal repository.1.
Such projects need to pay special attention toproper documentation of the decisions takenon the encoding applied within the project ?this is not only substantial for sustainability,but also for re-use of resources in the futureas demonstrated by Claire Warwick et al(2009).
Documentation which refers to ageneral standard like TEI or XML is not suf-ficient because it does not guarantee futureunderstanding and interoperability.2.
A set of preservation metadata needs to besupplied for every single digital object.
Thisis currently not a trivial requirement becausethere is no common view on the structure ofpreservation metadata.
Again, the internalproject decisions need to be well-documented.3.
The overall responsibility to document sig-nificant properties of the digital objectswhich will allow checking authenticity andchain of custody stays with the project; it isunlikely to expect that anyone in the futurewill be able to fill in such gaps if they arepresent.74Scenario 2.
Preparation of resources which willbe integrated into a larger digital repository.The following key considerations should betaken into account:1.
It is essential to be familiar with the proc-esses of ingest of digital objects into the re-pository.2.
The structure of the SIPs for ingest should bediscussed in advance.3.
The significant properties of digital objectsneed to be discussed with the digital reposi-tory; it should guarantee to retain authentic-ity and chain of custody related to the in-gested objects.The following Analysis Matrix (see Table 3)summarizes what issues needs to be taken intoaccount in these scenarios.Table 3.
Summary of digital-preservation issues re-flected in the two suggested scenariosIssue Scenario 1.
(stand-alone re-sources)Scenario 2.
(re-sources to beintegrated into adigital repository)Digital ob-jectThe digital objectis prepared com-pletely and solelywithin the pro-ject.The digital objectis likely to beenriched in orderto be ingestedinto a repository.This enrichmentcan be done byvarious partiesaccording to theadopted proce-dures for ingestinto the reposi-tory.Significantpropertiesof the digi-tal objectSmall projectsusually do notconsider signifi-cant propertiesbut they are es-sential as futureevidence of au-thenticity, integ-rity and chain ofcustody.The values of thesignificant prop-erties whichguarantee authen-ticity, integrityand chain of cus-tody need to besupplied jointlywith the digitalobject when it isbeing ingestedinto the digitalrepository.PreservationactionsThe preservationactions e.g.
copy-ing of media ormigration tonewer file for-mats will be ap-plied within thehost institution; itThe preservationactions are ap-plied within therepository.
Thecreators of thecollection do nothave to plan forthis but need toneeds to plan forthese otherwisethe danger is thatthe collection asa whole (or sepa-rate objects) willbe lost because ofmedia decay.make sure whatare the digitalrepositories poli-cies on physicalcopying and for-mat migration.OAIS im-plementa-tionIt is unlikely thatsmall projectswill implementthe complete setof OAIS func-tional entities.The repositoryhosting the pro-ject outputs mayimplement a spe-cific subset ofOAIS functionalentities; thisshould be dis-cussed in advanceas a sustainabilityguarantee.Possibleapplicationof naturallanguageprocessing(NLP) tech-nologyNLP can be ap-plied for auto-mated generationof metadata, in-cluding preserva-tion metadata; wedo not have evi-dence of suchattempts so far.An area of activeresearch is theapplication ofNLP for auto-mated extractionof metadata fromdigital objectsduring ingest.This will help toovercome themetadata bottle-neck.We hope that this succinct analysis will helpprojects to understand better the preservation-related options they have.4 ConclusionsOur presentation of digital preservation issuesand the specifics of cultural heritage domain pin-points several issues which are essential for fu-ture implementations:1.
The understanding of digital preservationstandards and models is essential to organise aproper lifecycle management for the culturalheritage resources; there are examples of solu-tions applied in the large memory institutions20but smaller projects and initiatives need to ad-dress these issues when they develop their sus-tainability plans.2.
Widely used metadata standards in the culturalheritage domain, such as TEI, could offer bet-ter guidance on metadata elements subset de-signed especially to support long-term preser-vation.
TEI provides mechanisms for follow-20 The German National Library and the Royal Library inthe Netherlands are examples of institutions which applysuccessfully digital preservation solutions.75ing any changes in the digital object; it alsocould be used to encode information related toother copies made such as master or preserva-tion copies and access or use copies; and pos-sibly to record any processes applied to a re-source, but this is not sufficient because it re-flects the process of creation of an object butthis is not sufficient to claim authenticity ofthis object.
Currently there is no mechanism tocheck the integrity and the chain of custody ofdigital objects.
However, TEI guidelinesshould suggest how correctly to representthese changes.
For example Linda Cantara in2005 suggested to form an AIP for the re-sources of the Tibet Oral History Archive Pro-ject especially for digital preservation pur-poses; more examples are needed in order toestablish a good practices which could be in-corporated in other cases.3.
OAIS does not suggest any specific metadataas instantiations of preservation description in-formation and in particular in the cultural heri-tage domain there is no single and uniformlyaccepted set of elements which guarantee thelongevity of resources; therefore it is neces-sary to define what metadata need to be storedfor preservation purposes.
We can not offer ageneral solution to this problem because it re-quires consensus of the communities of pro-fessionals.We also have presented two scenarios on digi-tal preservation derived from case studies on twoEC-funded projects.
This work shows that thereis definitely a current need to suggest good prac-tices for such endeavours, because while the pro-jects tackle the preservation issue, it is very diffi-cult to find individual good models to guaranteethe longevity of resources.ReferenceAngela Dappert and Markus Enders.
2008.
UsingMETS, PREMIS and MODS for Archiving eJour-nals.
In: D-Lib Magazine September/October 2008,Vol.
14, Number 9/10, ISSN 1082-9873Available:http://www.dlib.org/dlib/september08/dappert/09dappert.htmlBlue Ribbon.
2008.
The Blue Ribbon Task Force onSustainable Digital Preservation and Access(2008).
Interim Report.
Available:http://brtf.sdsc.edu/biblio/BRTF_Interim_Report.pdfBrian Lavoie and Richard Gartner.
2005.
Preservationmetadata, DPC Technology Watch Series Report05-01.
Available:http://www.dpconline.org/docs/reports/dpctw05-01.pdfClaire Warwick, Isabel Galina, Jon Rimmer, MelissaTerras, Ann Blandford, Jeremy Gow, George Bu-chanan (2009) Documentation and the Users ofDigital Resources in the Humanities.
Journal ofDocumentation, Vol.
65 (1), pp.
33-57.Daisy Abbott.
2008.
JISC Final Report ?
Digital Re-positories and Archives Inventory Project, HATII,University of Glasgow, July 2008.DPE.
2007.
Digital Preservation Europe (DPE)(2007).
Access to and preservation of cultural andscientific resources: research roadmap.http://www.digitalpreservationeurope.eu/publications/reports/dpe_research_roadmap_D72.pdfGiorgos Flouris and Carlo Meghini.
2007.
Some Pre-liminary Ideas Towards a Theory of Digital Preser-vation, 2007, Proceedings of the 1st InternationalWorkshop on Digital Libraries Foundations(DLF1-07).
Available:http://www.ite.gr/ics/isl/publications/paperlink/DLF107.pdfJames Cheney, Carl Lagoze and Peter Botticelli.2001.
Towards a Theory of Information Preserva-tion .
In: Constantopoulos & I.T.
S?lvberg (Eds.
):ECDL 2001, LNCS 2163: 340?351, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.Linda Cantara.
2005.
The Tibet Oral History ArchiveProject and Digital Preservation.
ACH-ALLC2005 conference.
Available:http://mustard.tapor.uvic.ca/cocoon/ach_abstracts/xq/xhtml.xq?id=141OAIS.
2003.
ISO 14721:2003 (Space data and infor-mation transfer systems ?
Open archival informa-tion system ?
Reference model).
Available:http://public.ccsds.org/publications/archive/650x0b1.pdfPaul Watry.
(2007).
Digital Preservation Theory andApplication: Transcontinental Persistent ArchivesTestbed Activity.
International Journal of DigitalCuration 2(2).
Available:http://www.ijdc.net/ijdc/article/view/43/0PREMIS.
(2008) Data Dictionary for PreservationMetadata: PREMIS version 2.0, Available:http://www.loc.gov/standards/premis/v2/premis-2-0.pdf.Reagan Moore and MacKenzie Smith.
(2007).
Auto-mated Validation of Trusted Digital RepositoryAssessment Criteria.
Journal of Digital Information8(2).
Available:http://journals.tdl.org/jodi/article/view/198/181.76
