Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 89?96,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploring graph structure for detection of reliability zones within synonymresources: Experiment with the Gene OntologyThierry HamonLIPN ?
UMR 7030Universite?
Paris 13 ?
CNRS99 av.
J-B Cle?mentF-93430 Villetaneuse, Francethierry.hamon@lipn.univ-paris13.frNatalia GrabarCentre de Recherche des CordeliersUniversite?
Paris Descartes, UMR S 872INSERM, U872HEGP AP-HP, 20 rue LeblancParis, Francenatalia.grabar@spim.jussieu.frAbstractComputing the semantic similarity betweenterms relies on existence and usage of seman-tic resources.
However, these resources, oftencomposed of equivalent units, or synonyms,must be first analyzed and weighted in or-der to define within them the reliability zoneswhere the semantic cohesiveness is stronger.We propose an original method for acquisitionof elementary synonyms based on exploitationof structured terminologies, analysis of syn-tactic structure of complex (multi-unit) termsand their compositionality.
The acquired syn-onyms are then profiled thanks to endogenouslexical and linguistic indicators (other typesof relations, lexical inclusions, productivity),which are automatically inferred within thesame terminologies.
Additionally, synonymyrelations are observed within graph, and itsstructure is analyzed.
Particularly, we ex-plore the usefulness of the graph theory no-tions such as connected component, clique,density, bridge, articulation vertex, and cen-trality of vertices.1 IntroductionIn various tasks and applications of natural languageprocessing and of biomedical informatics (i.e., queryexpansions, information retrieval, text mining, infor-mation extraction or terminology matching), it is im-portant to be able to decide whether two terms (i.e.,acetone anabolism and acetone biosynthesis, repli-cation of mitochondrial DNA and mtDNA replica-tion) convey the same or different meaning.
This isparticularly important for deciphering and comput-ing semantic similarity between words and terms.Lexicon of specific resources (synonym, morpho-logical or orthographic variants) can be used for de-tection of semantic similarity.
However, depend-ing on languages and domains, such resources arenot equally well described.
Morphological descrip-tion is the most complete for both general (Bur-nage, 1990; Hathout et al, 2001) and biomedical(NLM, 2007; Schulz et al, 1999; Zweigenbaumet al, 2003) languages.
But the situation is not assuccessful at the semantic level: little synonym re-sources can be found.
If WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998)proposes general language synonym relations forEnglish, the corresponding resources for other lan-guages are not freely available.
Moreover, the ini-tiative for fitting WordNet to the biomedical area(Smith and Fellbaum, 2004) seems to have beenabandoned, although there is a huge need for thiskind of resources.In our previous work, we proposed to use the ex-isting biomedical terminologies (i.e., Gene Ontology(Gene Ontology Consortium, 2001), Snomed (Co?te?et al, 1997), UMLS (NLM, 2007)), wich providecomplex terms, and to acquire from them lexical re-sources of synonyms.
Indeed, the use of complexbiomedical terms seems to be less suitable and gen-eralizable as compared to lexical resources (Popratet al, 2008).
Within the biological area, we pro-posed to exploit the Gene Ontology (GO), and morespecifically to exploit compositional structure of itsterms (Hamon and Grabar, 2008).
However, withthe acquisition of synonymy we faced two prob-lems: (1) contextual character of these relations(Cruse, 1986), i.e., two terms or words are con-sidered as synonyms if they can occur within the89same context, which makes this relation more orless broad depending on the usage; (2) ability ofautomatic tools to detect and characterize these re-lations, i.e., two terms or words taken out of theircontext can convey different relations than the oneexpected.
Because we aim at acquiring synonymyresources which could be used by various applica-tions and on various corpora, we need to profile themand possibly to detect the reliability zones.
We pro-posed to do this profiling through lexical and lin-guistic indicators generated within the same termi-nology (Grabar et al, 2008), such as productivity,cooccurence with other types of relations (is-a,part-of) and with lexical inclusion.
These indi-cators on reliability zones will be used for definingthe synonymity degree of terms and for preparingthe validation of the acquired synonym resources.
Inthe current work, we continue profiling the acquiredsynonyms, but rely on the form of the graph builtfrom pairs of synonyms.
We exploit for this somenotions of the graph theory (Diestel, 2005).
In thefollowing of this paper, we first present our mate-rial (sec.
2) and methods (sec.
3), we then presentand discuss results (sec.
4) and conclude with someperspectives (sec.
5).2 MaterialWe use the Gene Ontology (GO) as the original re-source from which synonym lexicon (or elementarysynonym relations) are induced.
The goal of the GOis to produce a structured, common, controlled vo-cabulary for describing the roles of genes and theirproducts in any organism.
GO terms convey threetypes of biological meanings: biological processes,molecular functions and cellular components.
Termsare structured through four types of relationships:subsumption is-a, meronymy part-of, syn-onymy and regulates.
The version, we usedin the current work, was downloaded in February20081.
It provides 26,057 concepts and their 79,994terms.
When we create pairs of terms, which we ex-ploit with our methods, we obtain 260,399 is-a,29,573 part-of and 459,834 synonymy relations.There are very few regulates relations, thereforewe don?t exploit them in our work.1Our previous work has been performed with an anteriorversion of the GO.3 MethodsGO terms present compositional structure, likewithin the concept GO:0009073, where composi-tionality can be observed through the substitution ofone of the components (underlined):aromatic amino acid family biosynthesisaromatic amino acid family anabolismaromatic amino acid family formationaromatic amino acid family synthesisCompositionality of the GO terms has been ex-ploited previously, for instance (Verspoor et al,2003) propose to derive simple graphs from relationsbetween complex GO terms, (Mungall, 2004) ex-ploits the compositionality as a mean for consistencychecking of the GO, (Ogren et al, 2005) use it forenriching the GO with missing synonym terms.
Wepropose to exploit the compositionality for inductionof synonym lexical resources (i.e., biosynthesis, an-abolism, formation, synthesis in the given example).While the cited works are based on the string match-ing within GO terms, our approach aims at exploit-ing the syntactic analysis of terms, which makes itindependent from the graphical form of the analyzedterms (like examples on fig.
1).
Our method has sev-eral steps: linguistic preprocessing of the GO terms(sec.
3.1), induction of elementary semantic lexi-con (sec.
3.2), and then the profiling the synonymylexicon through the lexical and linguistic indicators(sec.
3.3), and through the analysis of connectedcomponents built from the induced synonym pairs(sec.
3.4).
Steps 3.1 to 3.3 have been already de-scribed in our previous work: we mention here themain notions for the sake of clarity.3.1 Preprocessing the GO terms: Ogmios NLPplatformThe aim of terminology preprocessing step is toprovide syntactic analysis of terms for computingtheir syntactic dependency relations.
We use theOgmios platform2 and perform: segmentation intowords and sentences; POS-tagging and lemmatiza-tion (Schmid, 1994); and syntactic analysis3.
Syn-tactic dependencies between term components are2http://search.cpan.org/?thhamon/Alvis-NLPPlatform/3http://search.cpan.org/?thhamon/Lingua-YaTeA/90componentexpansion headcomponentreplicationmtDNAcomponentexpansionheadcomponentmitochondrial DNAreplication (of)Figure 1: Parsing tree of the terms replication of mitochondrial DNA and mtDNA replication.computed according to assigned POS tags and shal-low parsing rules.
Each term is considered as a syn-tactic binary tree composed of two elements: headcomponent and expansion component.
For instance,replication is the head component of the two termsanalyzed on figure 1.3.2 Acquiring the elementary semanticrelationsThe notion of compositionality assumes that themeaning of a complex expression is fully deter-mined by its syntactic structure, the meaning of itsparts and the composition function (Partee, 1984).On the basis of syntactically analysed terms, we ap-ply a set of compositional rules: if the meaning Mof two complex terms A rel B and A?
rel B, whereA is its head and B its expansion components, isgiven as following:M(A rel B) = f(M(A),M(B),M(rel))M(A?
rel B) = f(M(A?
),M(B),M(rel))for a given composition function f , if A rel B andA?
rel B are complex synonym terms and if B com-ponents are identical (such as acetone within ace-tone catabolism and acetone breakdown), then thesynonymy relation between components A and A?
{catabolism, breakdown} can be induced.
The mod-ification is also accepted on expansion componentB: from terms replication of mitochondrial DNAand mtDNA replication (fig.
1), we can induce syn-onymy between mitochondrial DNA and mtDNA.Finally, the modification is also accepted for bothcomponents A rel B and A?
rel B?, such as innicotinamide adenine dinucleotide catabolism andNAD breakdown, where one pair, i.e.
{catabolism,breakdown}, can be known from previously pro-cessed synonyms and allow to induce the new pair{nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, NAD}.
Themethod is recursive and each induced elementarysynonym relation can then be propagated in orderto induce new elementary relations, which allows togenerate a more exhaustive lexicon of synonyms.This method is not specific to the synonymy.
Asit works at the syntactic level of terms, it there-fore can be applied to other relationships: relation-ship between elementary terms is inherited fromthe relationship between complex terms.
If we ex-ploit complex terms related with part-of rela-tions and if the compositionality rules can be ap-plied, then we can induce elementary part-of re-lations.
For instance, complex terms cerebral cor-tex development GO:0021987 and cerebral cortexregionalization GO:0021796 have a part-of re-lation between them, and we can induce the elemen-tary part-of relation between their componentsdevelopment and regionalization.
Similarly, on thebasis of two GO terms that have is-a relation be-tween them, cell activation GO:0001775 and astro-cyte activation GO:0048143, we can induce the ele-mentary is-a relation between cell and astrocyte.3.3 Exploiting lexical and linguistic indicatorsSeveral endogenously generated indicators are usedfor profiling the induced lexicon of synonyms:?
Elementary is-a relations;?
Elementary part-of relations;?
Lexical inclusion: terms within each inducedsynonymy pair are controlled for the lexical in-clusion.
If the test is positive, like in {DNAbinding, binding}, this would suggest that theanalyzed terms may convey a hierarchical rela-tion: indeed, lexical subsumption marks often ahierarchical subsumption (Kleiber and Tamba,1990), which can be either is-a or part-ofrelations;?
Productivity: number of originalGO pairs fromwhich this elementary relation is inferred.
Forinstance, synonymy relations {binding, DNA91(a) Connected component of synonyms (b) Clique of synonymsFigure 2: Connected components formed with pairs of elementary synonym relations.binding} and {cell, lymphocyte} are inferredfrom only one original pair of GO synonyms,while the pair {T-cell, T-lymphocyte} is sup-ported by eight original GO synonym pairs.Factors that would weaken synonymy relations andmake them less reliable are their co-occurrence withlexical inclusions, is-a or part-of relations, andtheir low productivity.3.4 Exploiting the graph theory notionsPairs of induced synonyms are observed through theconnected components they form: lexical entries arenodes or vertices and relations between them areedges or paths.
For instance, connected component2(a) contains four pairs of synonyms: {membranelumen, envelope lumen}, {membrane lumen, in-termembrane space}, {envelope lumen, intermem-brane space} and {intermembrane space, IMS}.
Oneach edge, we projected information associated withthe relation corresponding to this edge.
For instance,{membrane lumen, intermembrane space} relationis labelled as synonymy SY N and shows 2 as pro-ductivity value (it has been acquired from two origi-nal pairs of synonyms within GO).
If other relation-ships (INCL, PAR, HIER) are associated to agiven synonymy relation, they are also indicated to-gether with their productivity.As a matter of fact, figure 2 presents two typicalexamples of connected components we can obtain(in these examples, both of them have four nodes):?
Connected component (fig.
2(a)) is a graph inwhich any two vertices are connected to eachother by edges.
Connected components havenot orphan vertices, which would remain notconnected to any other vertex.?
Clique, also called block (fig.
2(b)) is a par-ticular case of connected components: cliqueis a maximally connected component.
In suchgraphs, all the vertices are interconnected be-tween them.We propose to exploit four more notions of the graphtheory, which we assume can be useful for furtherprofiling of the acquired synonymy relations:?
Density of a connected component is the ra-tio between the number of its edges and thenumber of edges of the corresponding clique.For instance, the connected component on fig-ure 2(a) has 4 edges while the correspondingclique would have 6 edges.
In that respect,this connected component has the dentisty of0.67.
Besides, the clique on figure 2(b) showsthe maximum density (i.e., 1).
(For all the fig-92ures, we indicate their density, together with thenumber of vertices and edges).?
Bridge is defined as an edge which re-moval would increase the number of con-nected components.
For instance, within con-nected component 2(a), removing the edge{intermembrane space, IMS} would lead to thecreation of two new connected components:(1) single-vertex component IMS, and (2) con-nected component with three vertices inter-membrane space, membrane lumen and enve-lope lumen.
Consequently articulation verticesare defined as vertices which removal would in-crease the number of connected components.At figure 2(a), the articulation vertex is inter-membrane space.?
The centrality of a vertex is defined as the num-ber of shortest paths passing through it.
For in-stance, on figure 2(a), intermembrane space?scentrality is 4, while the centrality of other ver-tices is null.4 Results and Discussion4.1 Acquiring the elementary synonymyrelations and their lexical and linguisticprofiling79 994 GO terms have been fully analyzed throughthe Ogmios platform.
Compositional rules (sec.
3.2)have been applied and allowed to induce 9,085 se-mantic relations among which: 3,019 synonyms,3,243 is-a and 1,205 part-of.
876 lexical in-clusions have discovered within all these elementarypairs.
2,533 synonymy pairs are free of the lexicalprofiling indicators.
However, 486 synonymy rela-tions (16%) cooccur with other relations, and the de-tails of this cooccurrence is showed in table 1.
Wecan observe for instance that 142 synonym pairs arealso labelled as is-a relations, and 34 as part-ofrelations.
Productivity of the induced synonyms isbetween 1 and 422 original complex GO terms.Connected component on figure 3 illustratescoocurrence of synonymy relations with other typesof relations: the pair {import, ion import} showssynonym and inclusion relations; the pair {import,uptake} shows synonym and hierarchical relations,both acquired on seven original pairs of GO terms.Figure 3: Connected component where synonymy rela-tions cooccur with other relations.Synonymy and other relations Numbersyno ?
is-a 142syno ?
par 34syno ?
incl 309syno ?
par ?
is-a 14syno ?
incl ?
is-a \ par 40syno ?
incl ?
par \ is-a 2syno ?
incl ?
is-a ?
par 1Table 1: Number of synonymy relations which cooccurwith other relations (is-a, part-of and lexical inclu-sions incl).4.2 Analysing the induced synonym pairsthrough the graph theory3,019 induced synonym pairs have been groupedinto 1,018 connected components.
These compo-nents contain 2 to 69 nodes, related among themby 1 to 132 edges.
Analyses of the connectedcomponents have been performed with Perl pack-age Graph and additionnal Perl scripts.
Amongthe studied connected components, we have 914cliques composed of 2 (n=708), 3 (n=66), 4 (n=88),5 (n=44) or 6 (n=8) nodes.
The remaining 104connected components are less dense with edges.The density of the connected components is between93Figure 4: Connected component with three bridges: {ion homeostasis, homeostasis}, {homeostasis, regulation} and{cell cycle control, regulation}.0.0467 and 1 (in case of cliques).
Among the 104connected components, which are not cliques, wedetected 249 bridges: 0 to 35 depending on con-nected components.
In order to propose a generalapproach exploiting graph theory notions for syn-onym profiling we analyse the structure of three rep-resentative connected components.Density of the connected component 2(a) is 0.67.It contains one bridge: {intermembrane space,IMS}.
This edge corresponds to the acronym and itsexpanded form, which can cause its contextual char-acter.
Moreover, intermembrane space is the centralnode of this connected component.Connected component 3 (density=0.38) containstwo bridges {uptake, recycling} and {salvage, cy-cling}, and three articulation vertices uptake, re-cicling and salvage with the measures of central-ity 16, 18 and 10 respectively.
Indeed, the major-ity of shortest paths pass by uptake and reciclingnodes.
Otherwise, edges around the salvage ver-tex are weakened because of the cooccurrence ofsynonymy and hierarchical relations.
As we havealready noticed, the edge {import, uptake} showsthe cooccurrence of synonymy and hierarchical re-lations, but its productivity is rather high (seven foreach relation), which stregthens this edge.Finally, connected component 4 (density=0.33)contains three bridges {ion homeostasis, homeosta-sis}, {homeostasis, regulation} and {cell cycle con-trol, regulation} and three articulation vertices: reg-ulation, cell cycle control and homeostasis with themeasures of centrality 52, 37 and 16 respectively.The bridge {ion homeostasis, homeostasis} is weak-ened by the cooccurrence of synonymy, hierarchi-cal and lexical inclusion relations.
Otherwise, otheredges seem to convey non ambiguous synonymy.94From the analyzed examples, we can see that thegraph theory may have several implications on pro-filing of synonyms.
However, these implicationsmust still be formalized and, possibly, expressed asa single reliability indicator, alone or combined withthe lexical and linguistic clues.First, within a connected component, with a givennumber of nodes, higher the number of edges, higherwill be its density and closer it will be to a clique(fig.
2(b)).
Consequently, within a clique, the se-mantic cohesion is more strong.
Indeed, in thesecases, terms are far more strongly related betweenthem.
But when the density value decreases the se-mantic cohesiveness of connected components de-creases as well.
In other words, density is an indi-cation on the semantic cohesiveness between termswithin connected components.
As for bridges, weassume that they indicate breaking points withinconnected components, such as {cell cycle control,regulation} within figure 4.
The weak characterof these points can increased when the synonymyrelation co-occurs with other relationships (is-a,part-of, lexical inclusion).
Consequently, re-moval of bridges can create connected componentswith higher density and therefore with stronger syn-onymy relations.
Finally, the centrality of verticesmeasure may be useful for identification of poly-semic words or terms.The connected components analysis can also in-dicate the missing relations.
For instance, if a con-nected component, which is not a clique, has nobridges but its density is not maximal, this wouldindicate that it misses some correct synonymy rela-tions which can be easily induced.5 Conclusion and PerspectivesIn this paper, we propose an original method forinducing synonym lexicon from structured termi-nologies.
This method exploits the compositional-ity principle and three rules based on syntactic de-pendency analysis of terms.
More specifically, weexplore various indicators for profiling the acquiredsynonym relations, which is motivated by the factthat synonymy is a contextual relation and its va-lidity and universality is not guaranteed.
We as-sume the semantic cohesiveness of synonymy rela-tions should be qualified and quantified.
Thus, wepropose several indicators for profiling the inferredsynonymy relations and for detecting possible weakand strong points.
First, lexical and linguistic cluesare generated endogenously within the same termi-nology: other types of elementary semantic relations(is-a and part-of), lexical inclusions and pro-ductivity of the acquired semantic relations.
Then,more specifically, this work is dedicated to explor-ing of the usefulness of notions of the graph the-ory.
We propose to study the form and specificitiesof connected components formed by synonymy re-lations.
We exploited the following notions from thegraph theory: distinction between connected com-ponents and cliques, their density, bridges and artic-ulation vertices within connected components, andthe centrality of their vertices.
We observed that thelexical indicators as well as connected componentscharacteristics are helpful for profiling the acquiredsynonymy relations.
These clues are intended to beused for preparing the validation of this lexicon byexperts and also for its weighting in order to con-trol and guarantee the specificity of lexicon duringits use by automatic tools.Currently, we study separately the endogeneouslexical indicators, and the characteristics of the con-nected components.
However, in the future, thesetwo types of clues should be combined.
For this,these indicators should be modelized in order to pro-vide a weight of each edge.
This weight can beused for profiling of connected component throughthe detection of strong and weak points.
Noticethat the current version of the Graph package can-not take into account this additional information onedges and should be modified.
Another perspectiveis the better exploitation of the Gene Ontology andtaking into account the nature of synonymy relationsas they are labelled by thier creators: exact, broad,narrow or related.
Additionnally, for a more preciseprofiling, the four relationships of GO (synonymy,is-a, part-of and regulates) can be cross-validated, while currently, we perform the validationof synonymy relations through is-a and part-of(and other indicators).
We plan also to use the in-duced relations and propagate them through corporaand discover some of the missing synonyms (Holeand Srinivasan, 2000).
In this way, applying thesame compositionality principle, we can enrich andextend the Gene Ontology: new synonyms of GO95terms and even other relations between GO termsand terms from corpora can be detected.
As noticed,this method can be applied to other terminologiesand languages as far as structured terminological re-sources and NLP tools exist.
For instance, withinthe context of search of clinical documents, we suc-cessfully tested this method on the French part of theUMLS (Grabar et al, 2009).
From a more ontolog-ical perspective, our method can be used for consis-tency checking of a terminologies, like in (Mungall,2004).
Moreover, as this method performs syntacticanalysis of terms and their decomposition into se-mantically independent components, it can be usedfor the transformation of a pre-coordinated terminol-ogy into a post-coordinated one.ReferencesG.
Burnage.
1990.
CELEX - A Guide for Users.
Centrefor Lexical Information, University of Nijmegen.Roger A.
Co?te?, Louise Brochu, and Lyne Cabana, 1997.SNOMED Internationale ?
Re?pertoire d?anatomiepathologique.
Secre?tariat francophone internationalde nomenclature me?dicale, Sherbrooke, Que?bec.David A. Cruse.
1986.
Lexical Semantics.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Reinhard Diestel.
2005.
Graph Theory.
Springer-VerlagHeidelberg, New-York.Christian Fellbaum.
1998.
A semantic network of en-glish: the mother of all WordNets.
Computers and Hu-manities.
EuroWordNet: a multilingual database withlexical semantic network, 32(2-3):209?220.Gene Ontology Consortium.
2001.
Creating theGene Ontology resource: design and implementation.Genome Research, 11:1425?1433.Natalia Grabar, Marie-Christine Jaulent, and Thierry Ha-mon.
2008.
Combination of endogenous clues forprofiling inferred semantic relations: experiments withgene ontology.
In JAMIA (AMIA 2008), pages 252?6,Washington, USA.Natalia Grabar, Paul-Christophe Varoutas, PhilippeRizand, Alain Livartowski, and Thierry Hamon.
2009.Automatic acquisition of synonym ressources and as-sessment of their impact on the enhanced search inehrs.
Methods of Information in Medicine, 48(2):149?154.
PMID 19283312.Thierry Hamon and Natalia Grabar.
2008.
Acquisition ofelementary synonym relations from biological struc-tured terminology.
In Computational Linguistics andIntelligent Text Processing (5th International Confer-ence on NLP, 2006), number 4919 in LNCS, pages 40?51.
Springer.Nabil Hathout, Fiammetta Namer, and Georgette Dal.2001.
An experimental constructional database: theMorTAL project.
In P. Boucher, editor, Morphologybook.
Cascadilla Press, Cambridge, MA.WT Hole and S Srinivasan.
2000.
Discovering missedsynonymy in a large concept-oriented metathesaurus.In AMIA 2000, pages 354?8.Georges Kleiber and Ire`ne Tamba.
1990.
L?hyperonymierevisite?e : inclusion et hie?rarchie.
Langages, 98:7?32, juin.
L?hyponymie et l?hyperonymie (dir.
Marie-Franc?oise Mortureux).CJ Mungall.
2004.
Obol: integrating language andmeaning in bio-ontologies.
Comparative and Func-tional Genomics, 5(6-7):509?520.NLM, 2007.
UMLS Knowledge Sources Manual.
Na-tional Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland.www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/.PV Ogren, KB Cohen, and L Hunter.
2005.
Implica-tions of compositionality in the Gene Ontology for itscuration and usage.
In Pacific Symposium of Biocom-puting, pages 174?185.Barbara H Partee, 1984.
Compositionality.
F Landmanand F Veltman.Michael Poprat, Elena Beisswanger, and Udo Hahn.2008.
Building a biowordnet using wordnet data struc-tures and wordnet?s software infrastructure - a failurestory.
In ACL 2008 workshop ?Software Engineering,Testing, and Quality Assurance for Natural LanguageProcessing?, pages 31?9.Helmut Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speech tag-ging using decision trees.
In Proceedings of the In-ternational Conference on New Methods in LanguageProcessing, pages 44?49, Manchester, UK.Stefan Schulz, Martin Romacker, Pius Franz, AlbrechtZaiss, Rdiger Klar, and Udo Hahn.
1999.
Towards amultilingual morpheme thesaurus for medical free-textretrieval.
In Medical Informatics in Europe (MIE).Barry Smith and Christian Fellbaum.
2004.
Medicalwordnet: a new methodology for the construction andvalidation of information.
In Proc of 20th CoLing,pages 371?382, Geneva, Switzerland.Cornelia M Verspoor, Cliff Joslyn, and George J Papcun.2003.
The gene ontology as a source of lexical seman-tic knowledge for a biological natural language pro-cessing application.
In SIGIR workshop on Text Anal-ysis and Search for Bioinformatics, pages 51?56.Pierre Zweigenbaum, Robert Baud, Anita Burgun, Fi-ammetta Namer, E?ric Jarrousse, Natalia Grabar,Patrick Ruch, Franck Le Duff, Benot Thirion, andSte?fan Darmoni.
2003.
Towards a Unified MedicalLexicon for French.
In Medical Informatics in Europe(MIE).96
