Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 42?49,Athens, Greece, 30 ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsGenerating Approximate Geographic DescriptionsRoss Turner, Yaji Sripada and Ehud ReiterDept of Computing Science,University of Aberdeen, UK{r.turner,yaji.sripada,e.reiter}@abdn.ac.ukAbstractGeoreferenced data sets are often large andcomplex.
Natural Language Generation(NLG) systems are beginning to emerge thatgenerate texts from such data.
One of thechallenges these systems face is the gener-ation of geographic descriptions referring tothe location of events or patterns in the data.Based on our studies in the domain of me-teorology we present a two staged approachto generating geographic descriptions.
Thefirst stage involves using domain knowledgebased on the task context to select a frameof reference, and the second involves usingconstraints imposed by the end user to selectvalues within a frame of reference.
Becausegeographic concepts are inherently vague ourapproach does not guarantee a distinguish-ing description.
Our evaluation studies showthat NLG systems, because they can analyseinput data exhaustively, can produce morefine-grained geographic descriptions that aremore useful to end users than those generatedby human experts.1 IntroductionDisciplines such as environmental studies, geography,geology, planning and business marketing make exten-sive use of Geographical Information Systems (GIS);however, despite an explosion of available mappingsoftware, GIS remains a specialist tool with special-ist skills required to analyse and understand the infor-mation presented using map displays.
Complement-ing such displays with textual summaries therefore pro-vides an immediate niche for NLG systems.Recently, research into NLG systems that gener-ate text from georeferenced data has begun to emerge(Dale et al, 2005; Turner et al, 2006; Turner et al,2008b; Thomas and Sripada, 2008).
These systems arerequired to textually describe the geographic distribu-tion of domain variables such as road surface temper-ature and unemployment rates.
For example, descrip-tions such as ?road surface temperatures will fall belowzero in some places in the southwest?
and ?unemploy-ment is highest in the rural areas?
need to be generatedby these systems.
One of the main challenges such sys-tems face is the generation of geographic descriptionssuch as ?in some places in the southwest?
and ?in therural areas?.
Such a task is challenging for a number ofreasons:?
many geographic concepts are inherently vague(see for example (Varzi, 2001) for a discussion onthis topic);?
often the underlying data sets contain little explicitgeographic information for a generation system tomake use of (Turner et al, 2008b);?
as input to a generation system, georeferenceddata is often complex, constraints imposed on theoutput text (such as length) may make the tradi-tional approach to the Referring Expression Gen-eration (REG) problem in NLG of finding a dis-tinguishing description implausible (Turner et al,2008b).This paper looks at the problem in the context ofwork the authors have carried out on summarising geo-referenced data sets in the meteorology domain.
Themain feature of our approach is that geographic de-scriptions perform the dual function of referring toa specific geographic locations unambiguously (tradi-tional function of REG) and also communicate the re-lationship between the domain information and the ge-ography of the region (novel function of geographic de-scriptions).We present a two staged approach to generating ge-ographic descriptions that involve regions.
The firststage involves using domain knowledge (meteorolog-ical knowledge in our case) to select a frame of ref-erence and the second involves using constraints im-posed by the end user to select values within a frameof reference.
While generating geographic descriptionsit is not always possible to produce a distinguishingdescription because of the inherent vagueness in ge-ographic concepts.
Therefore, in our case we aim toproduce a distinguishing description wherever possi-ble, but more often allow non-distinguishing descrip-tions in the output text, which approximate the locationof the event being described as accurately as possible.After a short overview of the background in ?2,some empirical observations on geographic descrip-42tions from knowledge acquisition (KA) studies we havecarried out are discussed in ?3.
Taking these observa-tions into account, in ?4 we describe how this problemis approached using examples from RoadSafe (Turneret al, 2008b), which generates spatial references toevents in georeferenced data in terms of regions thatapproximate their location.
It pays particular attentionto the use of different perspectives to describe the samesituation and how factors that affect what makes a goodreference in this domain are taken into account by thesystem.
In ?5 we present a qualitative discussion of as-pects of geographic description from the evaluations ofRoadSafe that were carried out, and how this relates tofuture possible work on this topic.2 BackgroundMuch work on generation of spatial descriptions hasconcentrated on smaller scale spaces that are imme-diately perceivable.
For example, spatial descriptionshave been studied from the perspective of robot com-munication (Kelleher and Kruijff, 2006), 3D anima-tion (Towns et al, 1998) and basic visual scenes (Vi-ethen and Dale, 2008; Ebert et al, 1996).
In a moregeographical context route description generation sys-tems such as (Dale et al, 2005) and (Moulin and Ket-tani, 1999) have had wide appeal to NLG researchers.
(Varges, 2005) also generate landmark based spatial de-scriptions using maps from the map task dialogue cor-pus.RoadSafe is an NLG system that has been opera-tionally deployed at Aerospace and Marine Interna-tional (AMI) to produce weather forecast texts for win-ter road maintenance.
It generates forecast texts de-scribing various weather conditions on a road networkas shown in Figure 1.The input to the system is a data set consisting ofnumerical weather predictions (NWP) calculated overa large set of point locations across a road network.
Anexample static snapshot of the input to RoadSafe forone parameter is shown in Figure 2.
The complete in-put is a series of such snapshots for a number of param-eters (see (Turner et al, 2008b) for details).In applications such as RoadSafe, the same geo-graphical situation can be expressed in a variety of dif-ferent ways dependent upon the perspective employed,henceforth termed as a frame of reference.
Space (ge-ographic or otherwise) is inherently tied to a frame ofreference that provides a framework for assigning dif-ferent values to different locations in space.
For ex-ample, locations on Earth?s surface can be specified bylatitude and longitude which provide an absolute frameof reference for geographic space.
Cardinal directionssuch as {North, East, West and South} provide an alter-native frame of reference for geographic space.
As wasnoted in (Turner et al, 2008b), characterising the datain terms of frames of reference is important becauseoften the only geographic information input data con-tains are coordinates (latitude and longitude), while theOverview: Road surface temperatures will fallbelow zero on all routes during the late evening untilaround midnight.Wind (mph): NE 15-25 gusts 50-55 this afternoonin most places, backing NNW and easing 10-20tomorrow morning, gusts 30-35 during this eveninguntil tomorrow morning in areas above 200M.Weather: Snow will affect all routes at first,clearing at times then turning moderate duringtonight and the early morning in all areas, andpersisting until end of period.
Ice will affectall routes from the late evening until early morn-ing.
Hoar frost will affect some southwesternand central routes by early morning.
Road surfacetemperatures will fall slowly during the eveningand tonight, reaching zero in some far southernand southwestern places by 21:00.
Fog will af-fect some northeastern and southwestern routes dur-ing tonight and the early morning, turning freezingin some places above 400M.Figure 1: RoadSafe forecast text showing geographicdescriptions underlinedoutput texts are required to employ a wider choice offrames of reference such as altitude, direction, coastalproximity and population.
In RoadSafe the frames ofreference employed are always absolute according toLevinson?s terminology (Levinson, 2003).Because the geographic descriptions in RoadSafe donot fit the traditional formulation of the REG problemas finding the most distinguishing description, the mostpressing question to address is what makes an adequatereference strategy in this case?
This is of course a dif-ficult question and is reliant to a large extent on thecommunication goal of the system.
This paper looksinto this problem in the context of the RoadSafe appli-cation, that uses a simple spatial sublanguage to gener-ate the types of descriptions required in this applicationdomain.3 Observations on geographicdescriptions from the weather domainIn this section we summarise some empirical observa-tions on how meteorologists use geographic descrip-tions in weather forecasts.
It describes work carriedout over the course of the RoadSafe project involvingknowledge acquisition (KA) studies with experts onsummarising georeferenced weather data, observationsfrom data-text corpora (one aimed at the general pub-lic and one aimed at experts) and a small study withpeople from the general public.
During RoadSafe webuilt two prototype georeferenced data-to-text systemsthat summarised georeferenced weather data: one thatproduces pollen forecasts based on very simple data(Turner et al, 2006), and the RoadSafe system, which43Figure 2: Input data for ?reaching zero in some far southern and southwestern places?
in Figure 1generates road ice forecasts based on complex data.Small corpora consisting of forecast texts and their un-derlying NWP data were collected in both applicationdomains.
Using techniques described in (Reiter et al,2005) these corpora have been analysed to understandthe experts?
strategies to describe georeferenced data.The major finding from our studies is the fact thatexperts tailor their geographic descriptions to the taskcontext.
Not only does the geographic knowledge ofthe end user have to be taken into account in their de-scriptions, but also how the geography of the regioncauses events and patterns in the data.
The latter con-sideration has a large affect on the frame of referenceexperts employ to describe particular geographic situ-ations.
?3.1 looks at these observations from the pointof view of end users of weather forecasts, while ?3.2looks at the descriptive strategies of experts.3.1 End users?
geographic knowledgeIt is a well known and accepted fact that geographicknowledge varies greatly between individuals.
To il-lustrate this point 24 students of a further educationcollege in Scotland were asked a geography question,without reference to a map.
Which of four major placenames in Scotland (Ayr, Glasgow, Isle of Arran andStirling) did they consider to be in the south west ofthe country?
The responses showed a great variationin the subjects?
geographic knowledge.
Half of all sub-jects considered Glasgow and Ayr to be in the southwest, one third considered Stirling to be in the southwest and most surprisingly only four considered this tobe true of the Isle of Arran.
The results of this studyare surprising because Stirling is the least south west-erly place in the list while Isle of Arran is the mostsouth westerly.
This study actually agrees well withthe studies in psychology on variation in individuals?mental representation of their geographic environment(Tversky, 1993).Contrast this with the detailed knowledge of a roadengineer who the RoadSafe texts are intended for.
Roadengineers rely upon a large amount of local geographicknowledge and experience when treating roads.
In-deed, their spatial mental models are specified at amuch finer detail.
For example, they get to knowwhere frost hollows tend to form and also come to learnof particular unexpected black spots, such as wheregarages allow hose water to cover part of a road duringwinter.
This is an important point to be taken into ac-count when communicating georeferenced data as geo-graphic descriptions should be sensitive to that knowl-edge because it dictates how accurately they will be in-terpreted by the end user.Both task context and structural features of data (e.g.number of observations, granularity of measurement),as well as functional features of data (how the entitiesbeing described function in space) influence how it is44described geographically.
Analysis of a small pollenforecast corpus (Turner et al, 2006) revealed that fore-cast texts, contain a rich variety of spatial descrip-tions for a location despite the data containing only sixdata points for the whole of Scotland.
In general, thesame region could be referred to by its proper namee.g.
Sutherland and Caithness, by its relation to a wellknown geographical landmark e.g.
North of the GreatGlen, or simply by its geographical location on the mape.g.
the far North and Northwest.
In other words, ex-perts characterise the limited geographic informationcontained within the data according to the task context.As the consumers of such forecasts are the general pub-lic, there is a greater onus on the expert to make thetexts more interesting, unlike more restricted domainssuch as marine (see (Reiter et al, 2005)) or road iceforecasts that require consistent terminology.3.2 Experts?
descriptive strategyWork in psychology has suggested that meteorologistsuse a dynamic mental model to arrive at an inference topredict and explain weather conditions (Trafton, 2007).Vital to this process is also their ability to take intoaccount how the geography of a region influences thegeneral weather conditions.
Understanding the weath-ers interaction with the terrain enables them to makereliable meteorological inferences particularly when acertain pattern in the data may appear random.
It isoften unfeasible for a human forecaster to spend largeamounts of time inspecting every data point in a de-tailed visual display.
Using experience and expertise aforecaster can use her mental model to ?play out dif-ferent hypothetical situations?
(Trafton, 2007, p.2) andthus arrive at a plausible explanation for an apparentlyrandom weather pattern.
Consider the following exam-ple description of a weather event by an expert takenfrom our road ice corpus:?
?exposed locations may have gales at times.
?This is a good example of a forecaster using her me-teorological expertise to make an inference about a ran-dom weather pattern.
Clearly there is no way frominspection of a map one can ascertain with certaintywhere the exposed locations are in a region.
How-ever, an expert?s knowledge of how the referent entity(the wind parameter) is affected by geographical fea-tures allow her to make such an inference.
These prag-matic factors play a large part in determining an expertsdescriptive strategy, where certain frames of referencemay be considered more appropriate to describe certainweather events (Turner et al, 2008a).
This comes fromweather forecasters?
explicit knowledge of spatial de-pendence (the fact that observations points in georefer-enced data at nearby locations are related, and the val-ues of their non-spatial attributes will be influenced bycertain geographical features).
This is one of the mostimportant and widely understood fact about spatial datafrom an analysis point of view, and one of the main rea-sons that it requires special treatment in comparison toother types of non-spatial data.
This fact is most clearlyoutlined by an observation made in (Tobler, 1970, p.3)that ?everything is related to everything else, but nearthings are more related than distant things?.
This iscommonly known as the first law of geography and stillresonates strongly today amongst geographers (Miller,2004).
The implication of Tobler?s first law (TFL) isthat samples in spatial data are not independent, andobservations located at nearby locations are more likelyto be similar.
Recasting this into meteorological terms,exposed locations are more likely to be windier and el-evated areas colder for example.In fact, an analogy can be drawn between how me-teorologists consider perspectives in their descriptivestrategy and the preferred attribute list in the semi-nal work on REG by (Dale and Reiter, 1995).
Intheir specification of an algorithm for generating refer-ring expressions content selection is performed throughthe iteration over a pre-determined and task specificlist of attributes.
In our context, preferred attributesare replaced by preferred frames of reference.
Thismeans describing georeferenced data requires situa-tional knowledge of when to apply a particular frameof reference given a particular geographic distributionto describe.The most striking observation about the expert strat-egy is that the geographic descriptions in the corporaare approximations of the input (Turner et al, 2008a).The input is highly overspecified with 1000s of pointsfor a small forecast region, sampled at sub hourly inter-vals during a forecast period.
Meteorologists use vaguedescriptions in the texts to refer to weather events suchas:?
?in some places in the south, temperatures willdrop to around zero or just above zero.
?There are a number of reasons they use this descrip-tive strategy: the forecasts are highly compressed sum-maries, as a few sentences describes megabytes of data;very specific descriptions are avoided unless the pat-tern in the data is very clear cut; experts try to avoidmisinterpretation, road engineers often have detailedlocal geographic knowledge and experts may not beaware the more provincial terminology they use to referto specific areas.
The following section demonstrateshow the problem of generating such descriptions is ad-dressed in RoadSafe.4 Generating Approximate GeographicDescriptionsIn its current form, where summaries are meant to givea brief synopsis of conditions to the user, RoadSafefollows the approach taken by forecasters as discussedpreviously.
This is unconventional in comparison totraditional REG approaches that aim to rule out all dis-tractors in the domain (properties that are not true ofthe referent).
In a description such as ?reaching zero45in some places above 100M by 16:00?
above, distrac-tors can be defined as the set of points above 100M thatdo not satisfy the premise that temperatures will dropbelow zero.
More succinctly, these can be defined asfalse positives.
In fact, the problem can be formulatedas a trade off between false positives and false nega-tives, where false negatives constitute points that arewrongly omitted from the description.
For road grit-ting purposes, costs can be assigned to each type oferror: road accidents in the case of false negatives andwasted salt in the case of false positives.
As the taskdictates, with the higher associated cost it is impera-tive that a referring expression eliminates all false neg-atives.
Ideally a truly optimal description should thenseek to minimise false positives as far as possible, thusreducing the overall cost for the reader.
While reduc-ing errors descriptions should also be meteorologicallycorrect, as discussed in the previous section.
Using cer-tain frames of reference in certain contexts may resultin a poor inference about a particular weather situation(Turner et al, 2008b).Given this domain knowledge, we can formulateconstraints for what makes a good approximate geo-graphic description in this task context:1.
Meteorological correctness (inferencing aboutcausal relationships).2.
Minimise false positives.3.
Complete coverage of the event being described(no false negatives).These constraints have been realized in a two stagedapproach to generating geographic descriptions.
Thefirst stage involves using domain knowledge (meteo-rological knowledge in our case) to select a frame ofreference, while the second accounts for end-user con-straints to select values within that frame of reference.Before we describe the individual stages, two necessarypre-processing stages for generation are described.4.1 Geographic characterisationAs noted in ?2, observations in georeferenced data of-ten contain little explicit geographic information apartfrom their coordinates.
Geographic characterisation isresponsible for assigning a set of qualitative descrip-tors to each observation based upon a set of referenceframes, such that observations can be collectively dis-tinguished from each other.
This provides both a cri-terion for partitioning the data, and a set of propertiesto generate geographic descriptions.
A frame of ref-erence in this context consists of a set of descriptionsbased upon a common theme such as coastal proximitye.g.
{inland,coastal} or population e.g.
{urban,rural}.In RoadSafe four frames of reference have been imple-mented: altitude, coastal proximity, population and di-rection.
Those that make use of human (population)and physical geographical features (altitude, coastalProximity) can be represented by existing GIS datasets; therefore, in these cases geographic characterisa-tion is simply responsible for mapping observation co-ordinates to areas of these data sets.
In contrast, direc-tions are abstract and require definition.
In RoadSafe,geographic characterisation maps each observation to aset of directional areas with crisp boundaries, describedin the following section.4.2 Pattern formationTo generate descriptions, the geographic distributionof the event to be communicated has to be approxi-mated using data analysis techniques such as cluster-ing.
While not new to data-to-text systems, the novelaspect here is that the data is partitioned based uponthe frames of reference that make up the spatial sublan-guage of the system.
This process summarises the lo-cation of the event by measuring its density within eachframe of reference?s set of descriptions.
An example ofsuch a distribution is shown in Figure 3.Reference Frame Description ProportionAltitude100M 0.033200M: 0.017300M 0.095400M 0.042DirectionSSE 0.037SSW 0.014WSW: 0.048TSE 0.489TSW 0.444PopulationRural: 0.039Figure 3: Density of zero temperatures in Figure 2While the descriptions within each frame of refer-ence with human and geographical features are dictatedby the granularity of available GIS data sets (altituderesolution for example), the boundaries of directionalareas require definition.
In RoadSafe, because someflexibility in the generated geographic descriptions isdesirable, the system uses a four by four grid to splitthe domain into sixteen equally sized directional areasdefined by their their latitude longitude extents.
Thisconfiguration is shown below where T stands for trueand C for central in this case:TNW NNW NNE TNEWNW CNW CNE ENEWSW CSW CSE ESETSW SSW SSE TSEUsing a simple set of adjacency matrices based onthis grid, RoadSafe represents a set of descriptions de-picting the traditional eight main points of the compassplus a further five that we term gradable (central, farsouth, far north, far east and far west).
Alternative con-46figurations using a greater number of gradable descrip-tions are possible.
These matrices are used by the mi-croplanner to choose attributes to refer to events usingthe direction frame of reference.
One example matrixfor each category of directional description are listedbelow.
In each matrix a value of 1 indicates that theevent has a non-zero density in that area.Gradable?
Far South:{TSW,SSW,SSE, TSE} =??
?0 0 0 00 0 0 00 0 0 01 1 1 1???Intercardinal?
South West:{TSW,WSW,SSW,CSW} =??
?0 0 0 00 0 0 01 1 0 01 1 0 0???Cardinal?
South:SouthEast ?
SouthWest =??
?0 0 0 00 0 0 01 1 1 11 1 1 1??
?In what follows we describe how our two stage strat-egy is implemented in our system.4.3 Frame of reference selectionThe main content selection decision made by the doc-ument planner is the choice of which frame of refer-ence to describe a specific weather event such as windgusts increasing or road surface temperature falling be-low zero.
This decision is based upon both the locationof the event as discussed previously, and situationalknowledge stored in the knowledge base of the system.Frames of reference where all descriptions have non-zero densities are not considered.
Situational knowl-edge consists of the probability of using each frame ofreference given the context (the weather parameter todescribe), and is based on corpus frequencies.
Ratherthan simply choosing the frame of reference with thehighest density, weighting each frame of reference inthis way ensures meteorological correctness as far aspossible.4.4 Attribute selectionOnce a frame of reference has been selected the mi-croplanner maps the descriptions to abstract syntaxtemplates.
As this is fairly trivial for most frames ofreference in RoadSafe, because they contain a limitednumber of descriptions, we will provide an examplehow this is accomplished for directional descriptions.The input to the microplanner is a structure comprisedof the density of the event within the containing areaplus its associated adjacency matrix as shown in Figure4.Location {Pointratio : 0.21Relation : inContainer :???
?0 0 0 00 0 0 01 0 0 01 1 1 1????
}Figure 4: REG input to describe Figure 2The attribute selection algorithm is based upon fourconstraints incorporating the first two principles of thedescriptive strategy outlined at the beginning of thissection.
They are:1.
Minimise false positives - The description de-scribing the distribution should introduce the leastnumber of distractors.
For the above example distri-bution the set {South} ensures coverage but introducesthree distractors: CSW, CSE and ESE.
While the setof directions {Far South, South West} only introducesone: CSW.
In general, a measure of how distinguishinga description x is of a distribution y is given by:distinguishing(x, y) = |x ?
y||x|Thus, for a distribution z and descriptions x and y,x is a more distinguishing description of z than y iffdistinguishing(x,z) > distinguishing(y,z).2.
Coverage (no false negatives) - The descrip-tion should completely describe the distribution.
Theset of directions {Far South,South West} completelydescribes the above example distribution while {FarSouth} does not.
For the set of directions x and dis-tribution y, the predicate covers(x, y) is true iff|x ?
y||y| = 13.
Brevity - The set of directions should yield theshortest description of the distribution.
For the aboveexample distribution there is only one set of direc-tions that ensures complete coverage.
But when facedwith a choice for example {South} and {South West,South East} brevity constraint favours {South}.
In gen-eral,the set x should be chosen over y because it is ashorter description.
For the distribution z and sets ofdirections x, y with equal coverage of z, x is a shorterdescription of z than y iff |x| < |y|.4.
Ordering: If two descriptions have equal cov-erage, cardinality and are equally distinguishing for a47given distribution, a description is chosen based upona predefined preference ordering.
Each type of prop-erty is assigned a score: Cardinal = 3, Intercardinal =2 and Gradeable = 1.
Therefore, the set of directions{Far South, South West} would be assigned a value of3.In classification terms, the first constraint can be con-sidered as precision and the second as recall.
The algo-rithm firstly ranks each individual description in the setdescribed in ?4.2 according to the constraints outlinedabove.
If a single directional term cannot be used to de-scribe the distribution it then incrementally tries to findthe highest ranking combination of directions that sat-isfy the coverage constraint and do not cover the wholeregion; otherwise, the algorithm terminates by return-ing the empty set.
So, for the example input providedat the beginning of this section it would return the ab-stract syntax template shown in Figure 4.
Quantifiersare selected by applying a simple threshold to the pointratio (which is recalculated should distractors be intro-duced): some = > 0, many = > 0.5, most = > 0.7.This would be realised as ?in some far southern andsouthwestern places?.??????????????????????
?Type: LocationSyntaxHead: | in |Object:?????????????????
?Head: | place |Features:[definite:falseplural:true]Quantifier: | some |Modifier:??????
?Head: | and |Coord1[Head: | southern |Modifier: | far |]Coord2[Head | southwestern |]???????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 5: Phrase syntax for input in Figure 45 Evaluation and DiscussionRoadSafe has been evaluated in post-edit evaluationswith meteorologists at AMI and by asking potentialusers to compare the quality of the summaries to corpustexts based on the same data.
While evaluations havebeen intended to test the overall quality of the textswe have received much feedback on the geographic de-scriptions the system generates.
We have also carriedout some comparison of the direction descriptions tothose in the corpus, by annotating the corpus descrip-tions with our adjacency matrices and running themthrough the system.
Descriptions were compared bycalculating the Jaccard coefficient between the two ma-trices.
Overall the mean score was 0.53, with a fairlylow perfect recall percentage of 30%.
The low pre-cision score is perhaps not surprising as the descrip-tions generated by RoadSafe are crisp and the corpusdescriptions are not solely based on the input data wehave available.
However, the majority (67%) of par-tial alignments were the result of RoadSafe producinga subset of the human desciprition, e.g.
northwest ver-sus north, which indicates the system descriptions aremore fine grained.
In terms of the human descriptions,what was most apparent from this evaluation is the factthat they almost exclusively used the eight major pointsof the compass.In terms of feedback experts have commented thatgenerally the location descriptions generated by thesystem are accurate but should be more general.
Of97 post edited texts generated by the system 20% ofthe geographic descriptions were edited.Most notable was feedback from twenty one roadmaintenance personnel, who participated in an exper-iment asking them to compare expert written texts toRoadSafe generated texts based on the same five datasets.
The details of this experiment are to be publishedelsewhere; however, one of the main reasons they gavefor liking the style of the generated texts was becausethey contained more geographic descriptions than thecorresponding human ones.
The fact that a data-to-textsystem can analyse every data point is an advantage.
Incontrast experts have a huge amount of knowledge andexperience to draw upon and this reflects in their moregeneral and conservative approach in their geographicdescriptions.
Perhaps one of their biggest criticismsof the system as a whole is that it doesn?t do a goodjob of generating geographic descriptions that involvemotion, such as ?a band of rain works east across thearea?.
Indeed, this was the most edited type of gener-ated phrase during the post-edit evaluation.
There hasbeen little work to our knowledge on describing motionin the NLG literature.There are many aspects of the generation of geo-graphic that haven?t been addressed in this paper andwarrant further exploration.
Particularly at the con-tent level, there is a need to consider how to accountfor semantic composition effects caused by overlayingframes of reference.
Another question that arises iswhen is it best to use an intensional rather than exten-sional description.
There is also the question of whento use descriptions that involve relations or gradableproperties.
These are all choices that a data-to-text sys-tem can make that will affect how the summary is in-terpreted.6 ConclusionsThis paper has described an approach for generatingapproximate geographic descriptions involving regionsin the RoadSafe system, which is based on empiricalwork carried out in the weather domain.
Our strat-egy takes into account constraints on what constitutes agood reference in the application domain described, bytaking into account pragmatic factors imposed by boththe task context and the end user.
What is most appar-ent from our empirical studies is that geographic de-scriptions describing georeferenced data are influenced48by not only by location but also task context.
An im-portant observation based on our evaluation studies isthat NLG systems by virtue of their ability to analyseinput data exhaustively can generate descriptions thatare more useful to end users than those generated byhuman experts.ReferencesR.
Dale and E. Reiter.
1995.
Computational interpreta-tions of the gricean maxims in the generation of re-ferring expressions.
Cognitive Science, 19:233?263.R Dale, S Geldof, and J-P Prost.
2005.
Using natu-ral language generation in automatic route descrip-tion.
Journal of Research and Practice in Informa-tion Technology, 37(1):89?105.C.
Ebert, D. Glatz, M. Jansche, R. Meyer-Klabunde,and R. Porzel.
1996.
From conceptualization toformulation in generating spatial descriptions.
InU.
Schmid, J. Krems, and F. Wysotzki, editors, Pro-ceedings of the First European Workshop on Cogni-tive Modeling, pages 235?241.John D. Kelleher and Geert-Jan M. Kruijff.
2006.
In-cremental generation of spatial referring expressionsin situated dialog.
In Proceedings of ACL06, pages1041?1048.S.
Levinson.
2003.
Spatial language.
In Nadel L.,editor, Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science, volume 4,pages 131?137.
Nature Publishing Group.Harvey J. Miller.
2004.
Tobler?s first law and spatialanalysis.
Annals of the Association of American Ge-ographers, 93(3),:574?594.B.
Moulin and D. Kettani.
1999.
Route generationand description using the notions of objects influencearea and spatial conceptual map.
Spatial Cognitionand Computation, 1:227?259.E.
Reiter, S. Sripada, J.
Hunter, J. Yu, and I. Davy.2005.
Choosing words in computer-generatedweather forecasts.
In Artificial Intelligence, vol-ume 67, pages 137?169.Kavita E Thomas and Somayajulu Sripada.
2008.What?s in a message?
interpreting geo-referenceddata for the visually-impaired.
In Proceedings ofINLG08.Waldo Tobler.
1970.
A computer movie simulatingurban growth in the detroit region.
Economic Geog-raphy, 46(2):234?240.Stuart Towns, Charles Callaway, and James Lester.1998.
Generating coordinated natural language and3D animations for complex spatial explanations.
InProceedings of the Fifteenth National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, pages 112?119, Madison, WI.J.
Gregory Trafton.
2007.
Dynamic mental models inweather forecasting.
In Proceedings of the HumanFactors and Ergonomics Society 51st Annual Meet-ing, pages 311?314.R.
Turner, S. Sripada, E. Reiter, and I. Davy.
2006.Generating spatio-temporal descriptions in pollenforecasts.
EACL06 Companion Volume, pages 163?166.R.
Turner, S. Sripada, E. Reiter, and I. Davy.
2008a.Building a parallel spatio-temporal data-text cor-pus for summary generation.
In Proceedings ofthe LREC2008 Workshop on Methodologies andResources for Processing Spatial Language, Mar-rakech, Morocco.R.
Turner, S. Sripada, E. Reiter, and I Davy.
2008b.Using spatial reference frames to generate groundedtextual summaries of georeferenced data.
In Pro-ceedings of INLG08.B.
Tversky.
1993.
Cognitive maps, cognitive col-lages, and spatial mental models.
In A.U.
Frankand I. Campari, editors, Spatial Information Theory,pages 14?24.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Sebastian Varges.
2005.
Spatial descriptions as refer-ring expressions in the maptask domain.
In ENLG-05, Aberdeen, UK.Achille C. Varzi.
2001.
Vagueness in geography.
Phi-losophy & Geography, 4:1:4965.Jette Viethen and Robert Dale.
2008.
The use of spatialrelations in referring expressions.
In Proceedings ofINLG08, Salt Fork, Ohio, USA.49
