Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 76?83,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPBengali Verb Subcategorization Frame Acquisition - A Baseline ModelSomnath Banerjee                      Dipankar Das                      Sivaji BandyopadhyayDepartment of Computer Science & EngineeringJadavpur University, Kolkata-700032, Indias.banerjee1980@gmail.com, dipankar.dipnil2005@gmail.com,sivaji_cse_ju@yahoo.comAbstractAcquisition of verb subcategorization framesis important as verbs generally take differenttypes of relevant arguments associated witheach phrase in a sentence in comparison toother parts of speech categories.
This paperpresents the acquisition of different subcate-gorization frames for a Bengali verb Kara(do).
It generates compound verbs in Bengaliwhen combined with various noun phrases.The main hypothesis here is that the subcate-gorization frames for a Bengali verb are samewith the subcategorization frames for itsequivalent English verb with an identicalsense tag.
Syntax plays the main role in theacquisition of Bengali verb subcategorizationframes.
The output frames of the Bengaliverbs have been compared with the frames ofthe equivalent English verbs identified usinga Bengali-English bilingual lexicon.
Theflexible ordering of different phrases, addi-tional attachment of optional phrases in Ben-gali sentences make this frames acquisitiontask challenging.
This system has demon-strated precision and recall values of 77.11%and 88.23% respectively on a test set of 100sentences.1 IntroductionA subcategorization frame is a statement of whattypes of syntactic arguments a verb (or an adjec-tive) takes, such as objects, infinitives, that-clauses, participial clauses, and subcategorizedprepositional phrases (Manning,1993).
The verbphrase in a sentence usually takes various typesof subcategorization frames compared to phrasesof other types and hence the acquisition of suchframes for verbs are really challenging.A subcategorization dictionary obtained auto-matically from corpora can be updated quicklyand easily as different usages develop.
Severallarge, manually developed subcategorizationlexicons are available for English, e.g.
theCOMLEX Syntax (Macleod et al, 1994), AC-QUILEX (Copestake, 1992) and the ANLT(Briscoe et al, 1987) dictionaries.
VerbNet (VN)(Kipper-Schuler, 2005) is the largest online verblexicon with explicitly stated syntactic and se-mantic information based on Levin?s verb classi-fication (Levin, 1993).
It is a hierarchical do-main-independent, broad-coverage verb lexiconwith mappings to other lexical resources such asWordNet (Miller, 1990), XTAG (XTAG Re-search Group, 2001) and FrameNet (Baker et al,1998).
But, there is no existing subcategorizationlexicon available for Bengali language.
The sub-categorization of verbs is an essential issue inparsing for the free phrase order languages suchas Bengali.
As there is no such existing parseravailable in Bengali, the acquisition as well asevaluation of the acquired subcategorizationframes are difficult but crucial tasks.
The maindifference between English and Bengali sentenceis the variation in the ordering of variousphrases.
The pivotal hypothesis here is that thesubcategorization frames obtained for a Bengaliverb are same with the subcategorization framesthat may be acquired for its equivalent verb withan identical sense tag in English.The present work deals with the acquisition ofverb subcategorization frames of a verb kara(do) from a Bengali newspaper corpus.
This verbgenerates various types of compound verbs incombination with other preceding noun phrasesin Bengali.
The sentences containing these typesof compound verb entries have been retrievedfrom the Bengali corpus.
The Bengali verb sub-categorization frame acquisition task has beencarried out for the ten most frequent compoundverbs that contain kara (do) as a component.
Thenumber of occurrences of other compound verbs76is negligible in the corpus.
So, for evaluationpurpose, we have not considered those verbs.Each of the ten Bengali compound verbs hasbeen searched in the Bengali-English bilinguallexicon1 and the equivalent English verb mean-ings with its synonyms have been identified andretrieved.
All possible subcategorization framesfor each of the English synonyms of the Bengaliverb have been acquired from the EnglishVerbNet2.
These frames have been mapped to theBengali sentences that contain the compoundverb.
Evaluation results with a test set of 100sentences show the effectiveness of the modelwith precision, recall and F-Measure values of77.11%, 88.23% and 79.24% respectively.
Thereare some frames that have not been identifieddue to their absence in the corpus.
Linguists havesuggested that these frames do appear in Bengaliand hence can be acquired.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.Section 2 gives the description of the relatedworks carried out in this area.
Section 3 de-scribes the framework for the acquisition of sub-categorization frames for ten compound Bengaliverbs.
Evaluation results of the system are dis-cussed in section 4.
Finally section 5 concludesthe paper.2 Related WorkOne of the early works for identifying verbs thatresulted in extremely low yields for subcategori-zation frame acquisition is described in (Brent,1991).
A rule based system for automaticallyacquiring six verb subcategorization frames andtheir frequencies from a large corpus is men-tioned in (Ushioda et al, 1993).
An open classvocabulary of 35,000 words was analyzed manu-ally in (Briscoe and Carroll, 1997) for subcatego-rization frames and predicate associations.
Theresult was compared against associations inANLT and COMLEX.
Variations of subcatego-rization frequencies across corpus type (writtenvs.
spoken) have been studied in (Carroll andRooth, 1998).
A mechanism for resolving verbclass ambiguities using subcategorization framesis reported in (Lapata and Brew, 1999).
All theseworks deal with English.
Several works on theterm classification of verb diathesis roles or thelexical semantics of predicates in natural lan-guage have been reported in ((McCarthy, 2001),1 http://home.uchicago.edu/~cbs2/banglainstruction.html2 http://verbs.colorado.edu/~mpalmer/projects/verbnet.html(Korhonen, 2002), (Stevenson and Merlo, 1999)and (Walde, 1998)).A cross lingual work on learning verb-argument structure for Czech language is de-scribed in (Sarkar and Zeman, 2000).
(Samanta-ray, 2007) gives a method of acquiring differentsubcategorization frames for the purpose of ma-chine aided translation system for Indian lan-guages.
The work on subcategorization frameacquisition of Japanese verbs using breadth-firstalgorithm is described in (Muraki et al, 1997).3     System OutlineWe have developed several modules for the ac-quisition of verb subcategorization frames fromthe Bengali newspaper corpus.
The modules con-sist of POS tagging and chunking, Identificationand Selection of Verbs, English Verb Determina-tion, Frames Acquisition from VerbNet andBengali Verb Subcategorization Frame Acquisi-tion.3.1 POS Tagging and ChunkingWe have used a Bengali news corpus (Ekbal andBandyopadhyay, 2008) developed from the web-archives of a widely read Bengali newspaper.
Aportion of the Bengali news corpus containing1500 sentences have been POS tagged using aMaximum Entropy based POS tagger (Ekbal etal., 2008).
The POS tagger was developed with atagset of 26 POS tags3, defined for the Indianlanguages.
The POS tagger demonstrated an ac-curacy of 88.2%.
We have also developed a rule-based chunker to chunk the POS tagged datawith an overall accuracy of 89.4%.3.2 Identification and Selection of VerbsOur previous work (Das et.al., 2009) on the ac-quisition of Bengali subcategorization framesfrom the same Bengali news corpus was carriedout for the most frequent verb ??????
(dekha)(see) in that corpus.
The next highest frequentverb in this corpus is ?????
(kara) (do) which isa special verb in Bengali.
However to the best ofour knowledge, no frame acquisition task hasbeen carried out yet for this Bengali verb.
Thesingle occurrence of ?????
(kara) as a main verbin a sentence takes completely different subcate-gorization frames in comparison with the ac-quired frames for the compound verbs consistingof ?????
(kara) as a component.
Hence, we have3http://shiva.iiit.ac.in/SPSAL2007/iiit_tagset_guidelines.pdf77concentrated our focus to acquire subcategoriza-tion frames for the Bengali verb ?????
(kara).For this purpose, we have manually analyzedthe tagged and chunked data to identify the word?????
(kara) that are tagged as main verb (VM)and belong to the verb group chunk (VG) in thecorpus.
The preceding noun phrase of ?????
(kara) generally produces completely differentverbs in Bengali (e.g.
[????
???
(tairi(NN)kara(VM))(make)], [??????
???
(byabahar (NN)kara(VM))(use)] etc.
).Bengali, like any other Indian languages, ismorphologically very rich.
Different suffixesmay be attached to a verb depending on the vari-ous features such as Tense, Aspect, and Person.The Bengali stemmer uses a suffix list to identifythe stem form of the verb ?????
(kara).
Anothertable stores the stem form and the correspondingroot form.
Stemming process has correctly iden-tified 234 occurrences of the verb ?????
(kara)from its 241 occurrences in the corpus with anaccuracy of 97.09%.
The sentences where theverb ?????
(kara) appears in any inflected formbut has been tagged as main verb (VM) havebeen retrieved.
These sentences have been con-sidered for fine-grained analysis of verb subcate-gorization frames.
It is expected that the corpuswill have adequate number of occurrences foreach subcategorization frame of the verb.
Thepassive occurrences of ?????
(kara) such as????????
(karano), ?????
(kariye) have been fil-tered out and the sentences containing the pas-sive entries of ?????
have not been considered inthe present work.The compound verb phrases with pattern suchas {[XXX] (NN) [kara] (VM)} have been identi-fied and retrieved from the Bengali POS taggedand chunked corpus.
It has been observed thatmost of these compound verb phrases are indi-vidually different verbs in Bengali.
Around 182various kinds of verbs have been identified.
Cer-tain typical and distinct occurrences of ?????
(kara) have also been identified.
But, linguisticverification shows that these typical verbs areformed by attaching the verb ?????
(kara) to anadjective or an adverb word, like ????
???
(jhakjhak kara) , ????
???
(taktak kara), ??????
(sheet kara) etc.
Such types of around 48verb entries have been identified and filtered outfrom the corpus.
The rest 134 distinct types ofBengali compound verbs (CV) with ?????
(kara)as a component have been considered as targetverbs for analysis.We have identified the frequencies of theseverbs in the corpus.
It has to be mentioned thatonly a few verbs have an adequate number ofsentences in the corpus.
For this reason, only thetop ten compound verbs that have the largestnumber of occurrences in the corpus have beenselected.
Table 1 represents the top 10 differentBengali compound verbs and their frequenciesobtained from the corpus.Table 1.
Top 10 Bengali Compound Verbs andtheir frequencies obtained from the corpusBengali Verbs Freq.????
???
(tairi kara) (make) 23??????
???
(byabahar kara) (use) 18???
???
(bas kara) (live) 17???
???
(kaj kara) (work) 15??g?
???
(sangraha kara) (collect) 13?n ???
(bandha kara) (shut) 13???????
???
(chitkar kara) (shout) 3???
???
(bhul kara) (mistake) 3??j???
???
(jigyasa kara) (ask) 3?????k?
???
(parjabekkhan kara)(observe)33.3 English Verb DeterminationThe verb subcategorization frames for theequivalent English verbs (in the same sense) of aBengali verb are the initial set of verb subcatego-rization frames that have been considered asvalid for that Bengali verb.
The root forms of thetarget verbs appearing in different inflectedforms in the Bengali corpus have been identifiedby the process described in section 3.2.
The de-termination of equivalent English verbs has beencarried out using a Bengali-English bilinguallexicon.
We have used the available Bengali-English bilingual dictionary that has been for-matted for the text processing tasks.
Various syn-tactical representations of a word entry in thelexicon have been analyzed to identify its syno-nyms and meanings.
The example of an entry inthe bilingual lexicon for our target verb ?????
(kara) is given as follows.<???
[kar?]
v to do, to per-form, to accomplish, to exe-cute (???
???
); to build, tomake (????
???)
;.....>But, the various distinct verbs, with ?????
(kara) as a component have individual separate78entries in the bilingual dictionary.
We have iden-tified the equivalent English verbs from thoseBengali verb entries in the dictionary.
For exam-ple,<????
???
v. to build, tomake; ?><??????
???
v. to apply, touse; to behave; to treat (aperson), to behave towards;?><???
???
v. to work; toserve; to be effective ;?>Different synonyms for a verb having thesame sense are separated using ?,?
and differentsenses are separated using ?;?
in the lexicon.
Thesynonyms including different senses of the targetverb have been extracted from the lexicon.
Thisyields a resulting set called Synonymous VerbSet (SVS).
For example, the English synonyms(apply, use) and synonym with another sense(behave) have been selected for Bengali verb???????
????
(byabahar kara) and have beencategorized as two different SVS for the Bengaliverb ???????
????.
Two synonyms (make, build)for the Bengali verb ?????
????
(tairi kara) arethus present in the same SVS.
Now, the task is toacquire all the possible existing frames for eachmember of the SVS from the VerbNet.
The?????
(kara) verb may also appear in passiveform in Bengali sentences.
For example,?????
???
(Ramke)NNP  (kaj)NN??????
??????
(karano)VM  (hayechilo)VAUXThe corresponding dictionary entry for thepassive form of ?????
(kara) is as follows.
But inthis work, we have concentrated only on thosesentences where ?????
(kara) appears in activeform.<??????
[kar?n?]
v to cause todo or perform or accomplishor execute or build ormake?>3.4 Frames Acquisition from VerbNetVerbNet associates the semantics of a verb withits syntactic frames and combines traditionallexical semantic information such as thematicroles and semantic predicates, with syntacticframes and selectional restrictions.
Verb entriesin the same VerbNet class share common syntac-tic frames, and thus they are believed to have thesame syntactic behavior.
The VerbNet files con-taining the verbs with their possible subcategori-zation frames and membership information isstored in XML file format.
The Bengali verb ???????
(tairi kora) (make) has no direct class inVerbNet.
The verb ?make?
and its synonymousverb ?build?
are members of one of the sub-classes of the build-26.1 class and ?make?
is alsoa member of the dub-29.3 class.
A snapshot ofXML file for the build-26.1 class is given below......<VNCLASS ID="build-26.1".....<SUBCLASSES><VNSUBCLASS ID="build-26.1-1"><MEMBERS><MEMBER name="build"wn="build%2:36:00"/><MEMBER name="make"wn="make%2:36:01 make%2:36:05.....make%2:42:13 make%2:36:10"/>.....</MEMBERS>.....<FRAME><DESCRIPTION descriptionNum-ber="3.9" primary="NP-PP" secon-dary="Asset-PP" xtag=""/><EXAMPLES><EXAMPLE> The contractorbuilds houses for $100,000.</EXAMPLE>.....</EXAMPLES>.....</FRAME>.....The verbs in VerbNet that take same type of sub-categorization frames are stored in the  <MEM-BER> tag and the possible primary and secon-dary subcategorization frames are kept in <DE-SCRIPTION> tag with proper English examplesfor each frame.
The example for each of the sub-categorization frames for the English verb"make" has been given in the "build-26.1-1" sub-class of the ?build-26.1?
class in the VerbNet.The sentence tagged within <EXAMPLE>..</EXAMPLE> shows that after the occurrenceof the verb "build/make", one noun phrase (NP)and one prepositional phrase (PP) have occurredas the arguments of the verb.
The frame cor-responding to this sentence has been described asthe primary frame "NP-PP" in the frame descrip-tion <DESCRIPTION> tag.79Sense wise separated SVS members occupythe membership of same class or subclass inVerbNet.
It has been observed that the verbs?build?
and ?make?
are members of the sameSVS (extracted from the Bengali-English bilin-gual dictionary) and they are also members of thesame subclass build-26.1-1.
Therefore, both ofthe verbs take same subcategorization frames.SVS (VerbNetclasses)Primary and SecondaryFrames for a SVSMake (build-26.1-1)Build (build-26.1-1)NP-PP, NP, NP-NP, NP-NP-PP, Asset-PPAsset-SubjectUse (use-105,consume-66, fit-54.3)Apply (use-105)NP-ADVP, NP-PP, NP-TO-INF-VC, BasicTransitive, NP-ING-SC,Location SubjectAlternation, NP-PPfor-PP, Location-PPBehave (mas-querade-29.6,29.6-1)PP, Basic Transitiveas-PP, like-PP, in-PPTable 2.
The SVS members and their subcatego-rization frames for the corresponding Bengaliverbs ????
???
(tairi kara) and??????
???
(byabahar kara)The xml files of VerbNet have been preproc-essed to build up a general list that contains allmembers (verbs) and their possible subcategori-zation frames (primary as well as secondary) in-formation.
This preprocessed list is searched toacquire the subcategorization frames for eachmember of the SVS of the ten Bengali verbs(identified in section 3.3).
As the verbs are clas-sified according to their semantics in theVerbNet, the frames for the particular Bengaliverb are assumed to be similar to the frames ob-tained for the members of its SVS.
It has alsobeen observed that the same verb with a differentsense can belong to a separate class in theVerbNet.
For example, the acquired frames (pri-mary and secondary) for each member of theSVS of the target verbs (???????
????
and ?????????)
have been shown in Table 2.
In this way,all possible subcategorization frames for eachmember of a SVS have been extracted from thegeneralized search list for our ten target verbs.3.5 Bengali Verb Subcategorization FramesAcquisitionThe acquired VerbNet frames have been mappedto the Bengali verb subcategorization frames byconsidering the position of the verb as well as itsgeneral co-existing nature with other phrases inBengali sentences.The syntax of ?NP-PP?
frame for a Bengalisentence has been acquired by identifying thetarget verb followed by a NP chunk and a PREPchunk.
The sentences containing prepositionalframe ?PP?
do not appear in the Bengali corpus,as there is no concept of preposition in Bengali.But, when we compare the sentences containingpostpositional markers, i.e.
PREP (postpositions)as a probable argument of the verb, the systemgives the desired output.???
????
???????
(jar)PRP (theke)PREP (hat-pakha)NN??
?c???
????
(ar)CC   (achhadon)QF(toiri)NN????????
??
?k(korechilen)VM (Max)NNAll the frames of a SVS corresponding to aBengali verb have been considered.
The Bengaliverb ???????
????
(byabahar kara) in the fol-lowing sentence has taken the frame ?ADVP-PRED?
(the word with RB tag) from a differentSVS.?????????
(karmachari ra)NN?nh???
??(bondhuttwapurno)RB??????
????
(byabahar)NN  (karen)VMAnother form of ?ADVP-PRED?
frame hasbeen obtained by considering the Bengali mean-ing of the corresponding English adverbialphrase.
?There?
is an adverbial phrase taken bythe ?live?
verb in English.
The correspondingrepresentation in the equivalent Bengali verb iso???
?i (okhanei) as shown in the following sen-tence.
Hence, the frame has been identified.o???
?i        ???
(okhanei)RB (bas)NN????
???
(karte)VM  (habe)VAUX80The NNPC (Compound proper noun), NNP(Proper noun), NNC (Compound common noun)and NN (Common noun) POS tags help to de-termine the subjects, objects as well as the loca-tive information related to the verb.
In simplesentences the occurrence of these POS tags pre-ceded by the PRP (Pronoun) or NNPC tags andfollowed by the verb gives similar frame syntaxfor ?Basic Transitive?
frame of the VerbNet.Only the components like subject, object and asingle verb in Bengali as well as in English sen-tence can be signified as simple ?Basic Transi-tive?
frame.??
???
(se)PRP   NP((rakam)NN????i???
???
???
(designer)NN) (kaj)NN (kare)VMThe following example shows that the frameidentified from the sentence is also a ?transitiveframe?
and the secondary frame component is a?material object?
for that sentence.e??
?????
?The set of acquired subcategorization frames orthe frame lexicon can be evaluated against a goldstandard corpus obtained either through manualanalysis of corpus data or from subcategorizationframe entries in a large dictionary or from theoutput of the parser made for that language.
Asthere is no parser available for the Bengali andalso no existing dictionary for Bengali that con-tains subcategorization frames, manual analysisfrom corpus data is the only method for evalua-tion.
The chunked sentences that contain the tenmost frequent verbs have been evaluated manu-ally to prepare the gold standard data.
(ekti)QC (bagaze)NNP??g?
????
?VGNF((sangroho)NN (korlam)VM)The PREP (postposition) followed by a NPphrase and the target verb gives similar syntaxfor a NP-PP frame but it has been noticed thatthe secondary frame here can be a component of?Location-PP?.????
???
?We have identified 45 different kinds of verbsin the corpus.
A detailed statistics of the verb?????
(kara) is presented in Table 3.
During theBengali verb subcategorization frame acquisitionprocess, it has been observed that the simple sen-tences contain most of the frames that the Eng-lish verb form usually takes in VerbNet.
Analysisof a simple Bengali sentence to identify the verbsubcategorization frames is easier in the absenceof a parser than analyzing complex and com-pound sentences.
There are only three occur-rences of ?????
(kara) as auxiliary in the corpus.These are chunking errors as the verb ?????
(kara) does not occur as auxiliary verb.
(setu)NNP (theke)PREP????
u?d?NP((nana)JJ (udvid)NN))p????
?????k?
(projati)JJ (porjobekkhon)NN?????
(korlam)VMThe sentences where the determiner (DEM)and a NP chunk follow the target verb the se-quence (Target verb DEM NP) is considered asthe frame of sentential complement "S" for thattarget verb.???
??????
(Ram)NNP (chitkar)(NN)???
??
??
(korlo)VM(je)(DEM) (se)(PRP)??
??
?o(ar)CC      (kokhono)NN????
??
(asbe)VM (na)NEGThe presence of JJ (Adjective) generally doesnot play any role in the acquisition process ofverb subcategorization frames.
There are someframes that did not have any instance in our cor-pus.
Such frames are ?Asset-PP?, ?After-PP?,?Location Subject Alternation?
and ?NP-TO-INF-VC?
etc.
A close linguistic analysis showsthat these frames can also be acquired from theBengali sentences.
They have not occurred in thecorpus that has been considered for the analysisin the present work.4 EvaluationThe verb subcategorization frames acquisitionprocess is evaluated using type precision (thepercentage of subcategorization frame types thatthe system proposes are correct according to thegold standard), type recall (the percentage ofsubcategorization frame types in the gold stan-dard that the system proposes) and F-measure:81The system has been evaluated with 100 goldstandard test sentences containing ten most fre-quent verbs and the evaluation results are shownin Table 4.
The recall of the system shows a sat-isfactory performance in producing Bengali verbsubcategorization frames but the precision valuerequires more improvement.Information Freq.Number of sentences in the corpus      1500Number of different verbs in thecorpus45Number of inflected forms of theverb ?????
in the corpus49Total number of occurrences of theverb ?????
(before stemming ) in thecorpus241Total number of occurrences of theverb ?????
(after stemming) in thecorpus234Number of sentences where ????
?occurs as a  Main Verb (VM)206Number of sentences where ????
?occurs as a Simple Main Verb(SVM)2Number of sentences where ????
?occurs as a Compound Main Verb(CVM)204Number of sentences where ????
?occurs as a Passive Verb(??????
)(done)25Number of sentences where ????
?occurs as a  Auxiliary Verb (VAUX)3Number of simple sentences where?????
occurs as a Simple Main Verb(SVM)0Number of simple sentences where?????
occurs as a Compound MainVerb (CVM)127Table 3.
The frequency information of the verb?????
(kara) acquired from the corpusMeasures ResultsRecall 88.23%Precision 71.11%F-Measure 79.24Table 4.
The Precision, Recall and F-Measurevalues of the systemIt has been noticed that the absence of otherframes in the Bengali corpus is due to the freephrase ordering characteristics of Bengali Lan-guage.
The proper alignment of the phrases isneeded to cope up with this language specificproblem.
The number of different frames ac-quired for these ten verbs is shown in Table 5.Bengali Verbs SubcategoryFramesNo.
ofFrames????
???
(toiri kora)NP-PPNP-NP153??????
???
(babohar kora)NP-ADVPNP-PPNP-ING-SCNP-PPLocation-PP12111???
???
(baskora)BasicTransitivePPADVP-PRED1211???
???
(kajkora)PPNP-PP111??g?
???
(sangrohokora)Transitive(Materialobj)PP12?n ???
(bondho kora)BasicTransitiveNP-PP11???????
???
(chitkar kora)SPP11???
???
(bhulkora)Nil 0??j???
???
(jigyasa kora)BT 1?????k?
???
(porjobekkhonkora)Transitive(Location-PP)NP-PP11Table 5.
The frequencies of different frames ac-quired from corpus5 ConclusionThe acquisition of subcategorization frames formore number of verbs and clustering them willhelp us to build a verb lexicon for Bengali lan-guage.
We need to find out Bengali verb sub-categorization frames that may not be supportedfor the corresponding English verb with identicalsense.82There is no restriction for domain dependencyin this system.
For the free-phrase-order lan-guages like Bengali, the overall performance canbe increased by proper assumptions, rules andimplementation procedures.
Verb morphologicalinformation, synonymous sets and their possiblesubcategorization frames are all important in-formation to develop a full-fledged parser forBengali.
This system can be used for solvingalignment problems in Machine Translation forBengali as well as to identify possible argumentselection for Question and Answering systems.ReferencesAnna Korhonen.
2002.
Semantically motivated sub-categorization acquisition.
ACL Workshop onUnsupervised Lexical Acquisition.
Philadelphia.Anoop Sarkar and Daniel Zeman.
2000.
Automaticextraction of subcategorization frames for czech.COLING-2000.A.
Ekbal and S. Bandyopadhyay.
2008.
A Web-basedBengali News Corpus for Named Entity Recogni-tion.
LRE Journal.
Springer.A.Ekbal, R. Haque and S. Bandyopadhyay.
2008.Maximum Entropy Based Bengali Part of SpeechTagging.
RCS Journal, (33): 67-78.Akira Ushioda, David A. Evans, Ted Gibson, AlexWaibel.
1993.
The Automatic Acquisition of Fre-quencies of Verb Subcategorization Frames fromTagged Corpora.
Workshop on Acquisition ofLexical Knowledge from Text, 95-106.
Colum-bus, Ohio.B.
K. Boguraev and E. J. Briscoe.1987.
Large lexi-cons for natural language processing utilising thegrammar coding system of the Longman Diction-ary of Contemporary English.
ComputationalLinguistics, 13(4): 219-240.Christopher D. Manning.
1993.
Automatic Acquisi-tion of a Large Subcategorization Dictionary fromCorpora.
31st Meeting of the ACL, 235-242.
Co-lumbus, Ohio.Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet project.COLING/ACL-98, 86-90.
Montreal.Copestake A.1992.
The ACQUILEX LKB: Represen-tation Issues in the Semi-automatic Acquisition ofLarge Lexicons.
ANLP.
Trento, Italy.D.Das, A.Ekbal, and S.Bandyopadhyay.
2009.
Ac-quiring Verb Subcategorization Frames in Bengalifrom Corpora.
ICCPOL-09, LNAI-5459, 386-393.Hong Kong.Dan Gusfield.
1997.
Algorithms on Strings, Treesand Sequences.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.Diana McCarthy.
2001.
Lexical Acquisition at theSyntax-Semantics Interface: Diathesis Alter-nations, Subcategorization Frames and Selec-tional Preferences.
University of Sussex.Grishman, R., Macleod, C., and Meyers, A.
1994.Comlex syntax : building a computational lexicon.COLING-94, 268-272.
Kyoto, Japan.George A. Miller.
1990.
WordNet: An on-line lexicaldatabase.
International Journal of Lexicogra-phy, 3(4):235-312.Glenn Carroll, Mats Rooth.
1998.
Valence inductionwith a head-lexicalized PCFG.
EMNLP.
Granada.Karin Kipper-Schuler.2005.
VerbNet: A broad-coverage, comprehensive verb lexicon.
Ph.D.thesis, Computer and Information Science Dept.,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.Kazunori Muraki, Shin'ichiro Kamei, ShinichiDoi.1997.
A Left-to-right Breadth-first Algo-rithm for.
Subcategorization Frame Selectionof Japanese Verbs.
TMI.Levin, B.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alterna-tion: A Preliminary Investigation.
The Univer-sity of  Chicago Press.Michael Brent.1991.
Automatic acquisition of sub-categorization frames from untagged text.
29thMeeting of the ACL, 209-214.
California.Maria Lapata, Chris Brew.1999.
Using subcategoriza-tion to resolve verb class ambiguity.WVLC/EMNLP, 266-274.Suzanne Stevenson, Paola Merlo.
1999.
AutomaticVerb Classification using Distributions of Gram-matical Features.
EACL-99, 45-52.
Norge.Sabine Schulte im Walde.
1998.
Automatic Seman-tic Classification of Verbs According to TheirAlternation Behavior.
Master's thesis,  Stuttgart.S.D.
Samantaray.2007.
A Data mining approach forresolving cases of Multiple Parsing in MachineAided Translation of Indian Languages.
ITNG'07?
IEEE.Ted Briscoe, John Carroll.1997.
Automatic Extractionof Subcategorization from Corpora.
ANLP-ACL,356-363.
Washington, D.C.XTAG Research Group.
2001.
A lexicalized tree ad-joining grammar for English.
IRCS.
University ofPennsylvania.83
