Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , pages 70?74,Athens, Greece, 30 March ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsTranslation Combination using Factored Word SubstitutionChristian Federmann1, Silke Theison2, Andreas Eisele1,2, Hans Uszkoreit1,2,Yu Chen2, Michael Jellinghaus2, Sabine Hunsicker21: Deutsches Forschungszentrum fu?r Ku?nstliche Intelligenz GmbH, Saarbru?cken, Germany2: Universita?t des Saarlandes, Saarbru?cken, Germany{cfedermann,eisele,uszkoreit}@dfki.de, {sith,yuchen,micha,sabineh}@coli.uni-sb.deAbstractWe present a word substitution approachto combine the output of different machinetranslation systems.
Using part of speechinformation, candidate words are deter-mined among possible translation options,which in turn are estimated through a pre-computed word alignment.
Automaticsubstitution is guided by several decisionfactors, including part of speech, localcontext, and language model probabili-ties.
The combination of these factorsis defined after careful manual analysisof their respective impact.
The approachis tested for the language pair German-English, however the general technique it-self is language independent.1 IntroductionDespite remarkable progress in machine transla-tion (MT) in the last decade, automatic translationis still far away from satisfactory quality.
Even themost advanced MT technology as summarized by(Lopez, 2008), including the best statistical, rule-based and example-based systems, produces out-put rife with errors.
Those systems may employdifferent algorithms or vary in the linguistic re-sources they use which in turn leads to differentcharacteristic errors.Besides continued research on improving MTtechniques, one line of research is dedicated to bet-ter exploitation of existing methods for the com-bination of their respective advantages (Machereyand Och, 2007; Rosti et al, 2007a).Current approaches for system combination in-volve post-editing methods (Dugast et al, 2007;Theison, 2007), re-ranking strategies, or shal-low phrase substitution.
The combination pro-cedure applied for this pape tries to optimizeword-level translations within a ?trusted?
sentenceframe selected due to the high quality of its syntac-tic structure.
The underlying idea of the approachis the improvement of a given (original) translationthrough the exploitation of additional translationsof the same text.
This can be seen as a simplifiedversion of (Rosti et al, 2007b).Considering our submission from the sharedtranslation task as the ?trusted?
frame, we addtranslations from four additional MT systems thathave been chosen based on their performance interms of automatic evaluation metrics.
In total, thecombination system performs 1,691 substitutions,i.e., an average of 0.67 substitutions per sentence.2 ArchitectureOur system combination approach computes acombined translation from a given set of machinetranslations.
Below, we present a short overviewby describing the different steps in the derivationof a combined translation.Compute POS tags for translations.
We applypart-of-speech (POS) tagging to prepare theselection of possible substitution candidates.For the determination of POS tags we use theStuttgart TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994).Create word alignment.
The alignment betweensource text and translations is needed toidentify translation options within the differ-ent systems?
translations.
Word alignmentis computed using the GIZA++ toolkit (Ochand Ney, 2003), only one-to-one word align-ments are employed.Select substitution candidates.
For the sharedtask, we decide to substitute nouns, verbsand adjectives based on the available POStags.
Initially, any such source word is con-sidered as a possible substitution candidate.As we do not want to require substitution can-70didates to have exactly the same POS tag asthe source, we use groups of ?similar?
tags.Compute decision factors for candidates.
Wedefine several decision factors to enable anautomatic ranking of translation options.Details on these can be found in section 4.Evaluate the decision factors and substitute.Using the available decision factors wecompute the best translation and substitute.The general combination approach is languageindependent as it only requires a (statistical) POStagger and GIZA++ to compute the word align-ments.
More advanced linguistic resources are notrequired.
The addition of lexical resources to im-prove the extracted word alignments has been con-sidered, however the idea was then dropped as wedid not expect any short-term improvements.3 System selectionOur system combination engine takes any givennumber of translations and enables us to computea combined translation out of these.
One of thegiven system translations is chosen to provide the?sentence skeleton?, i.e.
the global structure of thetranslation, thus representing the reference system.All other systems can only contribute single wordsfor substitution to the combined translation, henceserve as substitution sources.3.1 Reference systemFollowing our research on hybrid translation try-ing to combine the strengths of rule-based MTwith the virtues of statistical MT, we choose ourown (usaar) submission from the shared task toprovide the sentence frame for our combinationsystem.
As this translation is based upon a rule-based MT system, we expect the overall sentencestructure to be of a sufficiently high quality.3.2 Substitution sourcesFor the implementation of our combination sys-tem, we need resources of potential substitutioncandidates.
As sources for possible substitution,we thus include the translation results of the fol-lowing four systems:?
Google (google)11The Google submission was translated by the GoogleMT production system offered within the Google LanguageTools as opposed to the qualitatively superior Google MTresearch system.?
University of Karlsruhe (uka)?
University of Maryland (umd)?
University of Stuttgart (stuttgart)The decision to select the output of these par-ticular MT systems is based on their performancein terms of different automatic evaluation metricsobtained with the IQMT Framework by (Gime?nezand Amigo?, 2006).
This includes BLEU, BLEU1,TER, NIST, METEOR, RG, MT06, and WMT08.The results, listing only the three best systems permetric, are given in table 1.metric best three systemsBLEU1 google uka systran0.599 0.593 0.582BLEU google uka umd0.232 0.231 0.223TER umd rwth.c3 uka0.350 0.335 0.332NIST google umd uka6.353 6.302 6.270METEOR google uka stuttgart0.558 0.555 0.548RG umd uka google0.527 0.525 0.520MT06 umd google stuttgart0.415 0.413 0.410WMT08 stuttgart rbmt3 google0.344 0.341 0.336Table 1: Automatic evaluation results.On grounds of these results we anticipate thefour above named translation engines to performbest when being combined with our hybrid ma-chine translation system.
We restrict the substi-tution sources to the four potentially best systemsin order to omit bad substitutions and to reducethe computational complexity of the substitutionproblem.
It is possible to choose any other num-ber of substitution sources.4 SubstitutionAs mentioned above, we consider nouns, verbsand adjectives as possible substitution candidates.In order to allow for automatic decision makingamongst several translation options we define a setof factors, detailed in the following.
Furthermore,we present some examples in order to illustrate theuse of the factors within the decision process.714.1 Decision factorsThe set of factors underlying the decision proce-dure consists of the following:A: Matching POS.
This Boolean factor checkswhether the target word POS tag matches thesource word?s POS category.
The factor com-pares the source text to the reference trans-lation as we want to preserve the sententialstructure of the latter.B: Majority vote.
For this factor, we computean ordered list of the different translation op-tions, sorted by decreasing frequency.
A con-sensus between several systems may help toidentify the best translation.Both the reference system and the Googlesubmission receive a +1 bonus, as they ap-peared to offer better candidates in morecases within the small data sample of ourmanual analysis.C: POS context.
Further filtering is applied de-termining the words?
POS context.
This isespecially important as we do not want to de-grade the sentence structure maintained bythe translation output of the reference system.In order to optimize this factor, we conducttrials with the single word, the ?1 left, andthe +1 right context.
To reduce complex-ity, we shorten POS tags to a single character,e.g.
NN ?
N or NPS ?
N .D: Language Model.
We use an English lan-guage model to score the different translationoptions.
As the combination system only re-places single words within a bi-gram context,we employ the bi-gram portion of the EnglishGigaword language model.The language model had been estimated us-ing the SRILM toolkit (Stolcke, 2002).4.2 Factor configurationsTo determine the best possible combination of ourdifferent factors, we define four potential factorconfigurations and evaluate them manually on asmall set of sentences.
The configurations differin the consideration of the POS context for factorC (strict including ?1 left context versus relaxedincluding no context) and in the usage of factor AMatching POS (+A).
Table 2 shows the settings offactors A and C for the different configurations.configuration Matching POS POS contextstrict disabled ?1 leftstrict+A enabled ?1 leftrelaxed disabled single wordrelaxed+A enabled single wordTable 2: Factor configurations for combination.Our manual evaluation of the respective substi-tution decisions taken by different factor combi-nation is suggestive of the ?relaxed+A?
configura-tion to produce the best combination result.
Thus,this configuration is utilized to produce soundcombined translations for the complete data set.4.3 Factored substitutionHaving determined the configuration of the dif-ferent factors, we compute those for the completedata set, in order to apply the final substitution stepwhich will create the combined translation.The factored substitution algorithm choosesamong the different translation options in the fol-lowing way:(a) Matching POS?
If factor A is activated forthe current factor configuration (+A), sub-stitution of the given translation options canonly be possible if the factor evaluates toTrue.
Otherwise the substitution candidate isskipped.
(b) Majority vote winner?
If the majority voteyields a unique winner, this translation optionis taken as the final translation.Using the +1 bonuses for both the referencesystem and the Google submission we intro-duce a slight bias that was motivated by man-ual evaluation of the different systems?
trans-lation results.
(c) Language model.
If several majority votewinners can be determined, the one with thebest language model score is chosen.Due to the nature of real numbers this stepalways chooses a winning translation optionand thus the termination of the substitutionalgorithm is well-defined.Please note that, while factors A, B, and D areexplicitly used within the substitution algorithm,factor C POS context is implicitly used only whencomputing the possible translation options for agiven substitution candidate.72configuration substitutions ratiostrict 1,690 5.714%strict+A 1,347 4.554%relaxed 2,228 7.532%relaxed+A 1,691 5.717%Table 3: Substitutions for 29,579 candidates.Interestingly we are able to obtain best resultswithout considering the ?1 left POS context, i.e.only checking the POS tag of the single wordtranslation option for factor C.4.4 Combination resultsWe compute system combinations for each of thefour factor configurations defined above.
Table3 displays how many substitutions are conductedwithin each of these configurations.The following examples illustrate the perfor-mance of the substitution algorithm used to pro-duce the combined translations.?Einbruch?
: the reference translation for ?Ein-bruch?
is ?collapse?, the substitution sourcespropose ?slump?
and ?drop?, but also ?col-lapse?, all three, considering the context,forming good translations.
The majority voterules out the suggestions different to the ref-erence translation due to the fact that 2 moresystems recommend ?collapse?
as the correcttranslation.?Ru?ckgang?
: the reference system translates thisword as ?drop?
while all of the substitutionsources choose ?decline?
as the correct trans-lation.
Since factor A evaluates to True, i.e.the POS tags are of the same nature, ?de-cline?
is clearly selected as the best transla-tion by factor B Majority vote and thus re-places ?drop?
in the final combined transla-tion result.?Tagesgescha?fte?
: our reference system trans-lates ?Tagesgescha?fte?
with ?requirements?,while two of the substitution systems indi-cate ?business?
to be a better translation.
Dueto the +1 bonus for our reference translationa tie between the two possible translationsemerges, leaving the decision to the languagemodel score, which is higher for ?business?.4.5 Evaluation resultsTable 4 shows the results of the manual evaluationcampaign carried out as part of the WMT09 sharedtask.
Randomly chosen sentences are presentedto the annotator, who then has to put them intorelative order.
Note that each annotator is shown arandom subset of the sentences to be evaluated.system relative rank data pointsgoogle -2.74 174uka -3.00 217umd -3.03 170stuttgart -2.89 163usaar -2.78 186usaar-combo -2.91 164Table 4: Relative ranking results from the WMT09manual evalution campaign.Interestingly, our combined system is not ableto outperform the baseline, i.e., additional datadid not improve translation results.
However theevaluation is rather intransparent since it does notallow for a strict comparison between sentences.5 ConclusionWithin the system described in this paper, we ap-proach a hybrid translation technique combiningthe output of different MT systems.
Substitutingparticular words within a well-structured transla-tion frame equips us with considerably enhancedtranslation output.
We obtain promising resultsproviding substantiated proof that our approach isgoing in the right direction.Further steps in the future will include machinelearning methods to optimize the factor selection.This was, due to limited amount of time and data,not feasible thus far.
We will also investigate thepotential of phrase-based substitution taking intoaccount multi-word alignments instead of just sin-gle word mappings.
Additionally, we would liketo continue work on the integration of lexical re-sources to post-correct the word alignments ob-tained by GIZA++ as this will directly improve theoverall system performance.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the EuroMatrixproject (IST-034291) which is funded by theEuropean Community under the Sixth Frame-work Programme for Research and TechnologicalDevelopment.73ReferencesLo?
?c Dugast, Jean Senellart, and Philipp Koehn.
2007.Statistical post-editing on SYSTRAN?s rule-basedtranslation system.
In Proceedings of the SecondWorkshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages220?223, Prague, Czech Republic, June.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Jesu?s Gime?nez and Enrique Amigo?.
2006.
IQMT: Aframework for automatic machine translation eval-uation.
In Proceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC?06).Adam Lopez.
2008.
Statistical machine translation.ACM Computing Surveys, 40(3):1?49.Wolfgang Macherey and Franz J. Och.
2007.
An em-pirical study on computing consensus translationsfrom multiple machine translation systems.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2007 Joint Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing and Com-putational Natural Language Learning (EMNLP-CoNLL), pages 986?995, Prague, Czech Republic,June.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Antti-Veikko Rosti, Necip Fazil Ayan, Bing Xiang,Spyros Matsoukas, Richard Schwartz, and BonnieDorr.
2007a.
Combining outputs from multiplemachine translation systems.
In Human LanguageTechnologies 2007: The Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics; Proceedings of the Main Confer-ence, pages 228?235, Rochester, New York, April.Association for Computational Linguistics.Antti-Veikko Rosti, Spyros Matsoukas, and RichardSchwartz.
2007b.
Improved word-level systemcombination for machine translation.
In Proceed-ings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion of Computational Linguistics, pages 312?319,Prague, Czech Republic, June.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Helmut Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speechtagging using decision trees.
In Proceedings ofInternational Conference on New Methods in Lan-guage Processing, September.Andreas Stolcke.
2002.
SRILM - an extensible lan-guage modeling toolkit.
In the 7th InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing (IC-SLP) 2002, Denver, Colorado.Silke Theison.
2007.
Optimizing rule-based machinetranslation output with the help of statistical meth-ods.
Master?s thesis, Saarland University, Computa-tional Linguistics department.74
