Proceedings of the NAACL HLT Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 94?101,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational Linguistics?Sorry?
seems to be the hardest wordAllan Ramsay Debora FieldSchool of Computer Science Dept of Computer ScienceUniv of Manchester Univ of SheffieldManchester M60 1QD, UK Sheffield S1 4DP, UKAbstractWe are interested in the ways that languageis used to achieve a variety of goals, wherethe same utterance may have vastly differentconsequences in different situations.
This isclosely related to the topic of creativity in lan-guage.
The fact that the same utterance canbe used to achieve a variety of goals opens upthe possibility of using it to achieve new goals.The current paper concentrates largely on animplemented system for exploring how the ef-fects of an utterance depend on the situationin which it is produced, but we will end withsome speculations about how how utterancescan come to have new kinds of uses.1 IntroductionWe are interested in the ways that language is used toachieve a variety of goals, where the same utterancemay have vastly different consequences in differentsituations.
We will take, as a running example, theuse of the single word ?Sorry?.We will look at a number of situations in whichthis word may be uttered, and investigate the waysin which its consequences may be determined byconsidering the goals and belief states of the partic-ipants.
The kinds of reasoning that lie behind thevarious uses of this word are, we believe, typical ofthe way that utterances can be used to achieve novelaims.
?Sorry?
is perhaps a fairly extreme case: verysimple indeed on the surface, very complex indeedin terms of its uses.
Any account of how this specificword gets used will have lessons for other kinds ofnovel action.As with many common but slippery words, dic-tionary definitions are not much help when trying towork out what ?sorry?
means: Merriam-Webster, forinstance, has ?feeling sorrow, regret, or penitence?as the primary definition, and the free dictionary(www.thefreedictionary.com has ?Feelingor expressing sympathy, pity, or regret?.
These def-initions are, as is common for words whose mean-ings are highly context dependent, essentially circu-lar.
How much do we gain from knowing that ?sorry?is a word that is used to express sorrow, or from thefree dictionary?s definition of ?sympathy?
as a ?feel-ing or an expression of pity or sorrow for the distressof another?
?Perhaps, then, considering a set of examples ofsituations where someone utters this word is a betterway of getting at what it means.
The following is arather long list, but then there are a very wide set ofsituations in which people say ?sorry?.
That is, afterall, the problem:(1) a.
EXPRESSION OF DISAPPOINT-MENTI?m sorry I missed your talk.
I forgotto set my alarm.
I?d really beenlooking forward to seeing your demo.b.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE NOT TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry I missed your talk.
My flightwas delayed.
[situation: S & H mutu-ally knew that S was counting on H tohelp with a demo during the talk.]94c.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE ALSO TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry I missed your talk.
I forgotto set my alarm.
[situation: S & H mu-tually knew that S was counting on Hto help with a demo during the talk.
](2) a.
EXPRESSION OF EMPATHYI?m sorry that this situation is so awfulfor you.
I would not be coping if I werein your shoes.b.
APOLOGY FOR A 3RD PARTY?SACTION WHILE NOT TAKINGFULL PERSONAL RESPONSIBIL-ITYI?m sorry that this situation is soawful for you.
My parents havereally excelled themselves this time[sarcasm].c.
APOLOGY FOR A 3RD PARTY?SACTION WHILE ALSO TAKINGFULL PERSONAL RESPONSIBIL-ITYI?m sorry that this situation is so awfulfor you.
As head of the division I takefull responsibility, and I am submittingmy resignation.d.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE ALSO TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry that this situation is so aw-ful for you.
I should have been morecareful.e.
EXPRESSION OF EMPATHYI?m sorry that this situation is so awfulfor you.
I?m not sorry for causing thesituation, because I didn?t cause it.
ButI am sorry it is so awful.
(3) a.
EXPRESSION OF DISDAIN+PITYI?m sorry they?re not good enough.
It?syour loss.b.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE ALSO TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry they?re not good enough.
Itried very hard, but I couldn?t get themquite right.
(4) a.
EXPRESSION OF EMPATHYI?m sorry, Dave, I?m afraid I can?t dothat.
All the pod locks are jammedshut.
I have tried everything I can thinkof, but I can?t get them open.b.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE ALSO TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry, Dave, I?m afraid I can?t dothat.
I have turned the tables and youare my prisoner now.
(5) a.
EXPRESSION OF REGRETI?m sorry I told him.
Things would bemuch simpler for me now if I?d keptquiet.b.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE ALSO TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry I told him.
I know I promisedyou I wouldn?t but it just slipped out.
(6) a.
EXPRESSION OF REGRETI?m sorry I killed their daughter.
Shewas in the wrong place at the wrongtime.
[Speaker feels no remorse forkilling, only regret for killing thewrong person.]b.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE ALSO TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry I killed their daughter.
It wasa terrible thing I did.If nothing else, these examples show how flexiblethe word ?sorry?
is.
About all they have in commonis that the speaker is referring to some action or stateof affairs which is disadvantageous to someone (usu-ally, but not necessarily, either the speaker or hearer:see (6) for a counter-example).
The follow-up sen-tences then say something more about the speaker?sattitude to this action or state of affairs (we willuse the generic term ?event?
to cover both of these).Just what the speaker?s attitude to the event is varieswildly: the glosses in the examples use terms like95?empathy?, ?apology?, ?regret?, but these are almostas slippery as ?sorry?
itself.2 Literal uses of ?sorry?The idea that ?sorry?
is ambiguous, with fifteen dif-ferent senses, is ludicrous.
Apart from anything else,we have another dozen examples up our sleeves thatdo not fit any of the patterns above, and it would beeasy to find yet further uses.
It seems more plausi-ble that it has a single meaning, which can be usedas the trigger for a variety of ideas depending on thethe nature of the event and the beliefs of the speakerand hearer.
The task of determining what a speakermeant by using this word in a given utterance thendevolves to epistemic inference.
This does not actu-ally make it very easy; but it does at least put it inthe right place.We will take it, then, that ?sorry?
is an adjectivethat takes a sentential complement, and that the in-terpretation of a sentence involving it is somethinglike Fig.
11.
In other words, (1a) says that right nowthe relation sorry holds between me and the fact thatI missed your talk.That seems fair enough, but it also seems ratherweak.
We cannot do anything with it unless weknow what follows from saying that the relationsorry holds between a person and a proposition.
Inother words, we need to start writing axioms (mean-ing postulates, rules, definitions, .
.
. )
to link this re-lation with other concepts.The first thing we note is that any such axiomswill be inherently intensional: sorry is a relationshipbetween a person and a proposition (a descriptionof a state of affairs).
We will therefore have to use1We use the ?restricted quantifiers?
?X :: {P}Q and ?X ::{P}Q as shorthand for ?X(P ?
Q) and ?X(P&Q)?Lat(L,sorry(ref (?M(speaker(M))),?N: {past(now,N)}?Oevent(miss,O,P,Q)&?
(O,object,ref (?R(own(ref (?S(hearer(S))),R) & sort(talk,R,T,U))))&?
(O,agent,ref (?V (speaker(V)))) & aspect(N,simplePast,O)))&aspect(now,simple,L)Figure 1: Logical form for (1a)some kind of intensional logic for writing our ax-ioms.
We follow (Chierchia and Turner, 1987; Foxand Lappin, 2005) in using a variant on ?propertytheory?
(Turner, 1987) for this purpose.
Propertytheory has the required expressive power for writ-ing rules that discuss propositions, and it has an ax-iomatisation which allows the implementation of apractical theorem prover (Ramsay, 2001).So what do we want to say about sorry?
The veryfirst observation is that it is factive: if I am sorryabout something, then it must have happened.
I can-not (sensibly) say that I am sorry that the moon ismade of green cheese, because it isn?t.
Our first ax-iom, then, says that anything that anyone is sorryabout is indeed true (A1):(A1)?B?C(sorry(B,C) ?
C)The only other thing that all the examples abovehave in common is that the speaker wishes that theproposition she is sorry about were not true (A2):(A2)?B?C(sorry(B,C) ?
C & wish(B,?
(C)))There are, indeed, cases where absolutely nothingmore follows from the use of ?Sorry?
:(7) My dear Pandora, you?re going to be sorryyou opened that.In (7), the speaker is simply telling their hearerthat she is going to wish she hadn?t opened it, what-ever it is.
No hint of apology or remorse or empathy.Just a plain a statement of fact: at some time in thefuture the hearer is going to wish that she?d left thebox closed.It is hard to find a distinction between the set ofpropositions that follow from every use of a term andits meaning.
We will therefore take it that (A1) and(A2) characterise the meaning of ?sorry?
: that theproposition in question is true, and that the personwho is sorry about it wishes that it wasn?t.96How, then, do all the other examples get theirforce?
The key is that once you have said that youwish something were not true, two questions arise:why do you wish it were not so, and why are youtelling me that you wish it were not so.
To answerthese two questions you have to think harder aboutwhat the proposition in question is like.There are two particularly interesting issues.Who, if anyone, was responsible for the propositionbeing true; and who, if anyone, is affected by it.
Inparticular, if the speaker is the person who was re-sponsible for it then wishing that it were not nowtrue entails wishing that they had not earlier per-formed the action that led to it; and if the personwho is affected by it is the hearer, and the effectis adverse, then the fact that the speaker wishes itwere not true establishes some degree of empathybetween the two.Before we can start formalising these notions weneed to introduce rules that specify responsibilityand affectedness.The simplest rules for these notions are centredaround the roles that individuals play in events.What, for instance, is the difference between (8a)and (8b)?
(8) a. I saw him fall off a cliff.b.
I watched him fall off a cliff.They both refer to the same set of events: he felloff a cliff, and I had my eyes open and looking inthat direction at the time (and I was awake, and var-ious other routine side-conditions).
The differenceis that (8b) implies a degree of control: that I wasaware that he was falling, and I deliberately kept myattention on what I was seeing.One way of capturing this distinction concisely isby using names for thematic roles which reflect theway that the individuals concerned are involved: if,for instance, we say that the speaker was the patientof the seeing event in (8a), but was the agent in (8b),then we can use rules like (A3) and (A4) to distin-guish between cases where someone was just acci-dentally involved in an event from ones where theycaused it or where they intentionally caused it.
(A3)?B?C: {?
(C,actor,B) ?
?
(C,agent,B)}cause(B,C)(A4)?B?C: {?
(C,agent,B)}intended(B,C)We can use (A3) and (A4) to pick out cases wherethe person who is sorry for some state of affairs is infact the person who caused it to come about.
We willnot yet say much about what follows from recognis-ing these cases.
For the moment we will just labelthem as cases where the person regrets the event inquestion.
(A5)?B?C : {wish(B,?
(C))}?D : {C ?
cause(B,D)}regret(B,D))Note that what the person is sorry about is aproposition, but what they regret is an event (in aclassical Davidsonian treatment of events (David-son, 1980)).
The key question here is whether thedescription of the state of affairs entails the existenceof an event for which they are responsible.
The rulesin (A3) and (A4) provide the relevant support in verymany cases: just using a verb whose set of thematicroles includes one with connotations of causality is ashorthand for making a statement about responsibil-ity.
There are, of course, other more complex cases,but in many such cases the key lies in spotting se-quences of causally related events where the start ofthe sequence involves the person in a causal role.Given these rules, we can distinguish between thecases in (9):(9) a. I?m sorry I saw him fall off a cliff.b.
I?m sorry I watched him fall off a cliff.If we assume that the hearer believes what thespeaker tells them, then following (9)b we can askwho believes that someone regrets something:| ?- prove(bel(X, regret(A, B))).A = ?#speaker?,B = ?#166?,X = ?#hearer?
?yesThe hearer believes that the speaker regrets some-thing, namely the action of watching someone fallof a cliff (represent here by a Skolem constant #166,introduced by the existential quantifier for the eventin the logical form for (9b), shown in Fig.
2.97sorry(#user,?O: {past(now,O)}?Pevent(watch,P,Q,R)&?
(P,-event,?S: {sort(cliff ,S,T,U)}?Vevent(fall,V,W,X) & ?
(V,agent,#171) & off (V,S) & aspect(now,simple,V))&?
(P,agent,#user) & aspect(O,simplePast,P))Figure 2: Logical form for (9b)Although the speaker regrets watching this unfor-tunate event, he cannot be seen as apologising for it.An apology expresses regret that the speaker causedsomething unfortunate to happen to the hearer.
Weneed the axiom A6 below to describe this situation:(A6)?B?C: {regret(B,C)}?D?E: {want(D,?
(E))& E ?
event(F,C,G,H)}apologise(B,D,C)In other words, if B regrets performing the actionC then if C is part of some situation which D re-gards as undesirable, the B can be seen as apologis-ing to D.We also need, of course, descriptions of situationswhich people might find undesirable.
A typical rulemight be as in (A7), which simply says that peopledo not want to be hurt (any individual B wants theproposition event(hurt,D,E,F)&?
(D,object,B) to befalse for all D,E and F ):(A7)?B?C?Dwant(B,?(event(hurt,D,E,F)&?
(D,object,B)))Given A6 and A7, we can see that saying ?I amsorry I hurt you?
would be an apology: the speakeris saying that he wishes that ?I hurt you?
was nottrue, and since this is something which was underthe speaker?s control (so he regrets it), then sinceit also something that the hearer did not want thenthe speaker?s utterance of this sentence is indeed anapology.Clearly this approach to the problem requires agreat deal of general knowledge.
There is nothingesoteric about A7.
On the contrary, it as about asobvious a fact of life as it is possible to imagine.Collecting a large enough body of such rules tocope with everyday language is, indeed, a daunt-ing task, but it is the sheer number of such rulesthat make it problematic, not the nature of the rulesthemselves.Once we have this background knowledge, how-ever, we can see that various rather subtle differ-ences between the basic uses of ?Sorry?
emerge quitestraightforwardly from rules like the ones above.Many of these rules are inherently intensional, asnoted above, so for a program to be able to work outwhether someone is actually apologising for someaction it will have to have access to a theorem proverfor an intensional logic.
Fortunately such theoremprovers exist (see e.g.
(Ramsay, 2001) for an exam-ple).3 Indirect usesThe axioms in Section 2 let us distinguish betweensome of the examples in (1)?(6).
We are facedwith two remaining questions.
What do we gainby labelling some examples as instances of regret orapology, and what do we do about the less obviouscases?The key to both these questions is that linguisticacts are inherently epistemic.
They are concernedwith conveying information about what the speakerS believes, including what she believes about thehearer H?s beliefs, with the intention of changingH?s beliefs.We will consider, in particular, the cases that wehave labelled as apologies.
What is the point of anapology?
What does S want to achieve by makingan apology?We have characterised apologising above as theact of saying that S wishes some proposition P were98not true, in a situation where S is responsible for Pbeing true and is something that H would like to beuntrue.
Note that all that S actually did was to saythat she wished P were not true.
There is nothingin the form of the utterance ?I am sorry that I didn?tdo the washing up?
that makes it obviously differentfrom ?I am sorry that you didn?t do the washing up?.The two utterances do, of course, feel very different?one is an apology, the other is something more likea threat or an admonition?but their structural prop-erties are very similar.
They are both, essentially,simple declarative sentences.To get a closer grip on why they convey such radi-cally different underlying consequences, we will re-visit the idea that linguistic actions are just actions,to be dealt with by specifying their preconditionsand effects, to be linked together by some planningalgorithm so that they lead to outcomes that are de-sirable for the speaker.We have argued elsewhere for a very sparse treat-ment of speech acts (Field and Ramsay, 2004; Fieldand Ramsay, 2007; Ramsay and Field, 2008).
Theargument starts by considering the classical use ofAI planning theory in domains such as the blocksworld, where the preconditions of an action are aset of propositions that must hold before that actioncan be performed, and the effects are a set of actionsthat will definitely hold after it has been performed.If preconditions and effects were not entirely rigidin this way then planning algorithms, from the origi-nal means-end analysis of (Fikes and Nilsson, 1971)through more modern approaches that involve staticanalysis of the relationships between different typesof action (Kambhampati, 1997; Nguyen and Kamb-hampati, 2001; Blum and Furst, 1997) would justnot work.Suppose, however, that we try to give this kind ofdescription of the linguistic act of stating something.What should the preconditions and effects of the actof stating something be?There seem to be very few limits on the situationsin which you can state something.
Consider (3) (re-peated here).
(3) a.
EXPRESSION OF DISDAIN+PITYI?m sorry they?re not good enough.
It?syour loss.b.
APOLOGY FOR OWN ACTIONWHILE ALSO TAKING FULL PER-SONAL RESPONSIBILITYI?m sorry they?re not good enough.
Itried very hard, but I couldn?t get themquite right.It is very hard to say that the speaker is performingtwo different actions when she utters the words ?I?msorry they?re not good enough?
in these two exam-ples.
She is, clearly, intending to achieve differentoutcomes in the two cases, but they are, surely, thesame action, in the same way that getting the milkout of the fridge in order to make custard and get-ting the milk out of the fridge in order to in orderto make space for the orange juice are the same ac-tion.
In both (3a) and (3b) S is claiming to be sorrythat they (whatever they are) are not good enough.In (3a), of course, it is clear that she does not believethat this is true.
Nonetheless, the form of the utter-ance makes it clear that she is making a statement.This is typical of linguistic actions.
It is possibleto state things that you do not believe, or to ask ques-tions where you already know the answer, or to issuecommands which you do not want to have carriedout.
Unless we want to have as many sub-types ofthe action ?statement?
as there are examples in (1)?
(6) (and then the dozen other examples that we didnot include, and then all the ones we haven?t thoughtof) then we have to see whether we can make a sin-gle, rather simple, act cover all these cases.What are the preconditions and effects of this act?The only completely essential precondition for mak-ing a statement is that you have the proposition inquestion in mind, and the only thing that you canbe sure that your hearer will believe is that you hadit in mind.
When S states a proposition P , S maybelieve it (3a); or she may disbelieve it (3b); or shemay be unsure about it (there are no examples of thisin (1)?
(6), but situations where a speaker makes astatement despite not having an opinion on whetherit is true or not can occur).
The situation for H iseven less clear: H may or may not believe that Sis being honest, and he may or may not believe thatS is reliable.
Hence, H may decide that although Shas claimed P she does not actually believe it; andeven if he does decide that she believes it, he mayregard her being unreliable (on, at least, the topic of99P ) so he may decide not to believe it anyway.
Andas for what S believes that H will believe after shehas uttered P , the possibilities are almost boundless.
.
.
The only thing you can be reasonably sure of isthat so long as H was paying attention and the ut-terance was not ambiguous then H will know thata claim was made, and hence that its preconditionsmust have held (because that is what preconditionsare: a set of propositions that must held in order forthe action to be performable).The only safe characterisation of a claim seems tobe as in Fig.
3claim(S, H, P)pre: bel(S, P) or bel(S, ?P) or bel(S, P or ?P)effects:Figure 3: Preconditions and effects of ?claim?The preconditions will hold so long as S hasthought about P (and so long as P is not somethingparadoxical like the Liar Paradox).
They do not holdat all times for all speakers.
Until you read the sen-tence ?Dan Holden hit some good first serves lastnight?
it was not the case that you believed that thissentence was either true or false, because you hadnever thought about it before.
Thus the precondi-tions of this action are roughly equivalent to sayingthat S has the proposition P in her mind.Given the extremely wide range of conclusionsthat H can come to, it seems safest not to say any-thing about the effects of a claim.
It would be fairlypointless to say that the effects of a claim are eitherH believes S believes P or H believes that S doesnot believe P or H believes that S believes that P isfalse, and that either H believes P or H is agnosticabout P or H believes P is false.
What we can sayis that if H realises that S has claimed P then hewill be recognise that S deliberately raised the topicof P ?s truth value.
In order to come to a conclusionabout why S should do this, he will have to cometo some view on S?s opinion of P .
In other words,a claim is an invitation to verify bel(S, P) or bel(S,?P) or bel(S, P or ?P).This will, of course, always be verifiable unlessP is a paradox, but the process of verification willtypically have side-effects.
In particular, bel(S, P)or bel(S, ?P) or bel(S, P or ?P) can be verifiedby showing that bel(S, P) holds, or by showing thatbel(S, ?P) holds.
H?s first move, then, will be toinvestigate bel(S, P).
S will know this, so if S doesbelieve P then if she also thinks that H has a reason-able model of her beliefs then she will conclude thatH will shortly have the proposition bel(S, P) avail-able to him.If, on the other hand, S believes that P is falsethen again assuming that H has a reasonable modelof her beliefs she can assume that he will shortlyhave bel(S, ?P) available to him.
In other words, if Sbelieves that H?s picture of her beliefs is reasonablycomplete and reasonably accurate then by claimingP she can bring either P or ?P to H?s attention.Given that linguistic acts are public, in the sensethat all the participants are aware that they havetaken place and that all the other participants areaware of this, both S and H will be aware thatH knows that one of bel(S,P ), bel(S,?P ) andbel(S,Por?P ) is true.
However, this disjunction isso uninformative that it amounts to an invitation toH to try to work out which disjunct actually holds.Furthermore, S knows that it is tantamount to suchan invitation, and H knows that S knows this.
Thusthe simple act of producing a highly uninformativeutterance in a public situation will lead both S andH to expect that they will both believe that H willtry find out which of the disjuncts actually holds.This allows S to say ?I?m sorry they?re not goodenough?
in a situation where both parties know thatS actually believes they are good enough.
H willtry to check the preconditions of S?s act of claimingto be sorry about the situation.
He will not man-age to verify that S is sorry about, but he can showthat she is not: the fact that she believes they aregood enough will clash with (A1), which says thatyou can only actually be sorry about things that aretrue.
Thus S has brought to the fact that she doesnot believe they are not good enough, whilst alsoraising the possibility that she might have been, butis not, sorry about something.
She has done so in away that has forced H to think about it, and to arriveat these conclusions for himself, which is likely tobe more forceful and indeed more convincing thanif she had just asserted it.
In other words, by sayingthat she has sorry about something she has conveyedthe complex message that the proposition in ques-tion is not true, and that she is not apologising for100H?s disappointment with the situation.4 ConclusionsIn the first part of the paper we explored the waythat the consequences of direct uses of a word like?Sorry?
can vary, depending on aspects of the propo-sition under consideration.
Saying that you wishsome state of affairs for which you are responsi-ble and which adversely affects your hearer did nothold has different consequences from saying thatyou wish that some more neutral proposition weretrue.
The degree of (admitted) responsibility of thespeaker for the situation affects these consequences?
?I?m sorry I shrank your favourite jumper?
carriesa different message from ?I?m sorry your favouritejumper shrank when I did the washing yesterday?
be-cause of the indirectness of the causal link betweenme and the shrinking in the second example.
Wehave all the machinery for accounting for exampleslike these implemented, via a theorem prover whichcan handle intensionality and which can effectivelyascribe beliefs to individuals.
Clearly this relies onbackground knowledge about everyday facts such asthe obsvervation that people generally dislike beinghurt (A7).
We do not have a massive repository ofsuch general knowledge, and inspection of publiclyavailable sources such as CYC and ConceptNet sug-gests that they generally omit such very basic facts,presumably because they are so self-evident that theare below the radar of the compilers.
Nonethe-less, there is nothing about such rules that makesthem particularly difficult to express, and we have nodoubt that if we had more general-knowledge of thiskind then we would be able to determine the conse-quences of a wide range of literal uses of ?Sorry?.The later discussion of indirect uses of ?sorry?is more speculative: we have an implementationof a planner which can use very underspecified ac-tions descriptions of the kind in Fig.
3 by look-ing for instantiations of such an action which en-tail some proposition in a particular situation, ratherthan simply looking for actions whose effects matchthe user?s goals, and we have used this to explore anumber of examples of ?indirect speech acts?.
Thereis more work to be done here, but the kind of anal-ysis we are looking at has the potential for handlingentirely novel uses of linguistic acts that approachesthat enumerate a fixed set of acts (e.g.
(Austin, 1962;Searle, 1969; Cohen and Perrault, 1979; Allen andPerrault, 1980; Cohen et al, 1990) with detailed pre-conditions and effects, would find more difficult.
Inthe same way that having a very simple definition of?sorry?
and allowing the different consequences toemerge in the light of other information that is avail-able in the situation lets us treat an open-ended setof literal uses of this word, using a very simple no-tion of linguistic act and allowing the different con-sequences to emerge in different situations leads tothe possibility of accounting for entirely novel uses.ReferencesJ F Allen and C R Perrault.
1980.
Analysing intention in utter-ances.
Artificial Intelligence, 15:148?178.J Austin.
1962.
How to Do Things with Words.
Oxford Univer-sity Press, Oxford.A Blum and M L Furst.
1997.
Fast planning through planninggraph analysis.
Artificial Intelligence, 90(1-2).G Chierchia and R Turner.
1987.
Semantics and property the-ory.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 11(3).P R Cohen and C R Perrault.
1979.
Elements of a plan-basedtheory of speech acts.
Cognitive Science, 7(2):171?190.P R Cohen, J Morgan, and M E Pollack.
1990.
Intentions inCommunication.
Bradford Books, Cambridge, Mass.D Davidson.
1980.
Essays on actions and events.
ClarendonPress, Oxford.D G Field and A M Ramsay.
2004.
Sarcasm, deception, andstating the obvious: Planning dialogue without speech acts.Artificial Intelligence Review, 22:149?171.D G Field and A M Ramsay.
2007.
Minimal sets of minimalspeech acts.
In Recent Advances in Natural Language Pro-cessing (RANLP?07), pages 193?199, Borovets, Bulgaria.R E Fikes and N J Nilsson.
1971.
Strips: a new approach to theapplication of theorem proving to problem solving.
ArtificialIntelligence, 3(4):251?288.C Fox and S Lappin.
2005.
Foundations of Intensional Seman-tics.
Blackwell.S Kambhampati.
1997.
Refinement planning as a unifiyingframework for plan synthesis.
AI Magazine, 18(2):67?97.X Nguyen and S Kambhampati.
2001.
Reviving partial orderplanning.
In IJCAI, pages 459?466.A M Ramsay and D G Field.
2008.
Speech acts, epistemicplanning and Grice?s maxims.
Logic and Computation,18:431?457.A M Ramsay.
2001.
Theorem proving for untyped constructive?-calculus: implementation and application.
Logic Journalof the Interest Group in Pure and Applied Logics, 9(1):89?106.J R Searle.
1969.
Speech Acts: an Essay in the Philosophy ofLanguage.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.R Turner.
1987.
A theory of properties.
Journal of SymbolicLogic, 52(2):455?472.101
