Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 1?9,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsStatic Relations: a Piece in the Biomedical Information Extraction PuzzleSampo Pyysalo?
Tomoko Ohta?
Jin-Dong Kim?
Jun?ichi Tsujii???
?Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan?School of Computer Science, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK?National Centre for Text Mining, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK{smp,okap,jdkim,tsujii}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractWe propose a static relation extraction task tocomplement biomedical information extrac-tion approaches.
We argue that static re-lations such as part-whole are implicitly in-volved in many common extraction settings,define a task setting making them explicit, anddiscuss their integration into previously pro-posed tasks and extraction methods.
We fur-ther identify a specific static relation extrac-tion task motivated by the BioNLP?09 sharedtask on event extraction, introduce an anno-tated corpus for the task, and demonstrate thefeasibility of the task by experiments showingthat the defined relations can be reliably ex-tracted.
The task setting and corpus can serveto support several forms of domain informa-tion extraction.1 IntroductionRelation Extraction (RE) is a key task in biomedi-cal Information Extraction (IE).
The automatic de-tection of relevant types of relations ?
for variousdefinitions of relevant ?
between entities has beenone of the primary focus points for significant do-main research efforts over the past decade, and asubstantial number of biomedical RE methods andannotated corpora have been published (Zweigen-baum et al, 2007).
Motivated by the needs of biolo-gists and e.g.
database curation efforts, most domainRE efforts target relations involving biologically rel-evant changes in the involved entities, commonly tothe complete exclusion of static relations.
However,static relations such as entity membership in a fam-ily and one entity being a part of another are not onlyrelevant IE targets in themselves but can also play animportant supporting role in IE systems not primar-ily targeting them.In this paper, we investigate the role of static re-lations in causal RE and event extraction.
Here,we use relation extraction in the MUC and ACE(Sundheim, 1995; Doddington et al, 2004) sense torefer to the task of extracting binary relations, or-dered pairs of entities, where both participating enti-ties must be specified and their roles (agent, patient,etc.)
are fixed by the relation.
By contrast, event ex-traction is understood to involve events (things thathappen) and representations where the number androles of participants may vary more freely.
We re-fer to relations where one one entity causes anotherto change as causal relations; typical domain exam-ples are phosphorylation and activation.
Static rela-tions, by contrast, hold between two entities withoutimplication of change or causality: examples fromthe ACE IE task include Physical.Located and Part-Whole.Artifact.2 Task definitionIn the following, we argue that static relations arerelevant to much of current biomedical IE work,present a task setting making these relations explicit,and discuss applications of static relation annotationand extraction methods.2.1 Named entity-driven IE and static relationsNamed entities (NEs) provide a simple anchor con-necting text to entities in the real world and thus anatural starting point for IE.
Named entity recog-nition (NER) is well studied and several biomed-1ical NER systems are available (see e.g.
(Wilburet al, 2007; Leaman and Gonzalez, 2008)), andmost domain IE approaches are NE-driven: a typi-cal way to cast the RE task is as deciding for eachpair of co-occurring NEs whether a relevant rela-tion is stated for them in context.
Like the previ-ous LLL and BioCreative2-PPI relation extractiontasks (Ne?dellec, 2005; Krallinger et al, 2007), theBioNLP?09 shared task on event extraction (Kim etal., 2009) similarly proceeds from NEs, requiringparticipants to detect events and determine the rolesgiven NEs play in them.Any domain IE approach targeting nontrivialcausal NE relations or events necessarily involvesdecisions relating to static relations.
Consider, forexample, the decision whether to extract a relationbetween NE1 and NE2 in the following cases (affectsshould here be understood as a placeholder for anyrelevant statement of causal relation):1) NE1 affects NE2 gene2) NE1 affects NE2 promoter3) NE1 affects NE2 mutant4) NE1 affects NE2 antibody5) NE1 affects NE2 activatorThe decision here depends on the interpretation ofthe noun compounds (NCs) NE2 gene, NE2 pro-moter, etc.
Depending on the IE setting, one might,for example, judge that statements (1)?
(3) justify theextraction of an (NE1, NE2) relation, while (4) and(5) do not.
This question is rarely formalized asa separate (sub)task in domain studies, and meth-ods targeting e.g.
the LLL, BioCreative2-PPI andBioNLP?09 shared task relations and events mustlearn to resolve this question together with the sep-arate issue of which words and syntactic structuresexpress relevant causal relations.2.2 Task settingThe relation extraction problems represented by ex-amples (1)?
(5) above are closely related to the well-studied issue of NC semantics.
However, the prob-lem extends past simple binary NCs to include judg-ments on the relations of arbitrary base NPs (nounswith premodifiers) to contained NEs,NE1 affects truncated NE2NE1 affects NE2/NE3 complexesNE1 affects NE2-dependent phosphataseand further to relations of NPs with NEs that are syn-tactically less immediately attached:NE1 affects first exon of NE2NE1 affects an element in the NE2 promoterNE1 affects members of the immediate-early acti-vation genes family such as NE2The problem thus encompasses also more generalrelations between nominals.While these different cases could also be studiedas separate tasks, in the current IE context they canbe seen as presenting a continuum of different syn-tactic realizations of similar relations that also carrythe same implications for further processing.
Wepropose to treat them together, formulating the spe-cific task studied in this paper as follows:Given: named entity NE and another entity Ewith their context in text,Determine: whether there is a relevant static re-lation R(NE, E) and its type.Here, relevant relations are defined as those that jus-tify an inference of some role for the NE in causal re-lations/events involving E. Additionally, the level ofgranularity chosen for typing is chosen according tothe need to determine the role of the NE in the rela-tions/events.
These choices are intentionally depen-dent on the IE context: we do not expect to be ableto formulate a universally accepted set of relevancecriteria or relations.
Our choice of relation scopeand types here follows the perspective of a currentlyhighly relevant IE problem, the BioNLP?09 sharedtask on event extraction.
We aim to recognize a setof relations sufficient to capture the relevant rela-tionships of the NEs provided as given informationin the shared task (all of protein/gene/RNA type)and the terms annotated in the GENIA Event corpus(Kim et al, 2008) as participants in events.We note that this task setting excludes the recog-nition of candidate NEs and other entities.
The as-sumption that they are given is analogous to thecommon NE-NE causal relation extraction setting.Further, requiring their recognition would, in ourview, unnecessarily complicate the task with aspectsof NER and NP chunking, well-studied separatetasks.We next sketch a formulation of an causal rela-tion/event extraction task incorporating static rela-tions and briefly present one possible way in which2static relation extraction could be applied in IE set-tings not explicitly targeting such relations.2.3 Applications of static relationsIn the following, we assume that NEs are detected ina prior processing step.
Consider, then, the task ofextracting relevant information from the followingsentence:NE1 is a subunit of the complex that inhibits theexpression of mutant forms of NE2An example causal relation extraction target herecould beInhibit(NE1,NE2)while an event extraction task might aim to recog-nize the eventsE1:Expression(NE2)E2:Inhibit(NE1, E1)An IE system directly targeting either representa-tion will need to simultaneously address issues re-lating to the causal statements and static relations.Static relation annotation makes this explicit (squarebrackets are used to mark non-NE entities):Part-Whole.Component-Object(NE1, [complex])Variant(NE2, [mutant forms])This type of static relation detection as prior step tocausal relation or event extraction could be appliedin at least two different ways: primarily augment-ing the extracted information, or alternatively assist-ing in the extraction of the information consideredabove.
Assuming the successful extraction of theabove static relations, the input can be reformulatedasNE1 is a subunit of the [complex] that inhibits theexpression of [mutant forms] of NE2Then, under the augmented extraction model, thecausal relation and event extraction targets would be,respectively,Inhibit([complex],[mutant forms])andE1:Expression([mutant forms])E2:Inhibit([complex], E1)Taken together with the static relations, this providesa more detailed representation of the informationstated in the example sentence.
Further, simple ruleswould suffice to derive the simplified representationsinvolving only the NEs, and such rules would havethe further benefit of making explicit which inter-vening static relations are taken to support the infer-ence that an NE is involved in a stated causal relationor event.Alternatively, under the assisted extraction model,with the assumption that the static relations are takento allow the inference that any relation or event hold-ing of the other entities holds for the NEs, the inputto the causal relation or event extraction system canbe recast asNE1 is a subunit of the NE?1 that inhibits the ex-pression of NE?2 of NE2where NE?1 and NE?2 should be understood asaliases for NE1 and NE2, respectively.
Now, un-der the causal relation extraction model, each ofthe (NE1,NE2), (NE?1, NE2), (NE1,NE?2), (NE?1,NE?2)pairs can serve as an example of the desired rela-tion, both for the purposes of training and actualextraction (the event extraction case can be treatedanalogously).
By increasing the number of positivecases, this application of information on static rela-tions would be expected to have a positive effect onthe performance of the primary causal relation/eventextraction method.While these two alternatives are only roughsketches of possible uses of static relation annota-tion, we expect either could be developed into apractical implementation.
Further, these examplesby no means exhaust the possibilities of this classof annotation.
As static relation extraction can thusbe seen to have multiple potential benefits for bothcausal relation and event extraction, we believe theefforts to pursue static relations as a separate taskand to develop resources specific to this task are jus-tified.3 RelationsBased on an analysis of the shared task data (seeSection 4.1), we recognize the static relations illus-trated in Table 1.
In the following, we briefly discussthe types and their selection.3Name ExamplesVariant Bcl-6 gene, IL-1 mRNA, wild-type SHP1, TRADD mutant, human IL-1beta,[cell-surface isoforms] of CD43, phosphorylated CREB proteinPW.Object-Component IL-6 promoter, GR N-terminal transactivation domain, SAA promoter sequence,proximal IL-2 promoter-enhancer, [transcriptional enhancers] including IFNBPW.Component-Object NF-kappa B1/RelA heterodimer, p65 homodimer, p50-p65 complex,STAT1-containing [DNA-binding complex], [heterodimer] of p50 and p65PW.Member-Collection CREB/ATF family, p21ras small GTP binding proteins,[non-heat shock genes] such as IL1B, [cellular genes] including GM-CSFPW.Place-Area beta-globin locusTable 1: Relations.
In examples, NEs are underlined and square brackets are used to mark the extent of non-NE entitiesthat do not span the entire example text.3.1 Selection criteriaRelations could be recognized and split into differ-ent types at a number of different granularities.
Mo-tivated by practical IE applications, we aimed to de-fine a static relation extraction subtask that fits natu-rally into existing IE frameworks and to create an-notation that supplements existing annotation andavoids overlap in annotated information.
The practi-cal goals also motivate our aim to recognize a min-imal set of different relation types that can satisfyother goals, fewer distinctions implying an easiertask and more reliable extraction.To decide whether to use a single relation type orintroduce several subtypes to annotate a given set ofcases, we aimed to introduce coherent relation types,each implying consistent further processing.
Morespecifically, we required that each relation R(NE,entity) must uniquely and consistently define the re-lation and roles of the participants, and that in therelevant IE context the relation alone is sufficient todecide how to interpret the role of the NE in otherrelations/events.
Specific examples are given in theintroduction of the chosen relation types below.In the following, we follow in part the relationtaxonomy and relation definitions of (Winston et al,1987).
However, we recognize that there is no clearagreement on how to subdivide these relations anddo not suggest this to be the only appropriate choice.3.2 Part-whole relationsPart-whole, or meronymic, relations are, not surpris-ingly, the most common class of static relations inour data: a single generic Part-Whole relation couldcapture more than half of the relevant relations inthe corpus.
However, although the relations be-tween the NE and entity in, for example, [complex]containing NE and [site] in NE are both types ofPart-Whole (below PW) relations, the roles of par-ticipants are not consistently defined: in PW(NE,[site]) the entity is a component of the NE, whilein PW(NE, [complex]) the roles are reversed.
Wethus recognize separate PW.Object-Component andPW.Component-Object relations.
By contrast, whilethe relation between a NE representing a gene and asite on that gene is is arguably different from the re-lation between a protein NE and a site on the protein,we do not distinguish these relations as the annota-tion would duplicate information available in as partof the entity typing in the corpus and would furtherimply a static relation extraction task that incorpo-rates aspects of NE recognition.Also frequent in the data are relations such asthat between a protein and a protein family it be-longs to.
While many cases are clearly identifiableas PW.Member-Collection relations, others could al-ternatively be analysed as Class-Member.
As in ourcontext the relations in e.g.
P, a member of the [typeF protein family] and P, a [type F protein] implythe same processing, we will apply the PW.Member-Collection label to both, as well as to ad hoc col-lections such as [cellular genes] such as NE, evenif this requires a somewhat relaxed interpretation ofthe relation label.
Finally, there are a few cases inour data (e.g.
NE locus) that we view as instances ofthe PW.Place-Area relation.3.3 Variant relationsTo avoid unnecessary division of relations that im-ply in our context similar interpretation and process-ing, we define a task-specific Variant relation that4encompasses a set of possible relation types holdingbetween an NE and its variants along multiple dif-ferent axes.
One significant class of cases annotatedas Variant includes expressions such as NE gene andNE protein, under the interpretation that NE refersto the abstract information that is ?realized?
as ei-ther DNA, RNA or protein form, and the entity toone of these realizations (for alternative interpreta-tions, see e.g.
(Rosario and Hearst, 2001; Heimonenet al, 2008)).The Variant relation is also used to annotate NE-entity relations where the entity expresses a differentstate of the NE, such as a phosphorylated or mutatedstate.
While each possible post-translational modifi-cation, for example, could alternatively be assigneda specific relation type, in the present IE contextthese would only increase the difficulty of the taskwithout increasing the applicability of the resultingannotation.3.4 Other/Out annotationWe apply a catch-all category, Other/Out, for anno-tating candidate (NE, entity) pairs between whichthere is no relevant static relation.
This label is thusapplied to a number of quite different cases: causalrelations, both implied (e.g.
NE receptors, NE re-sponse element) and explicitly stated (NE binds the[site]), relations where the entity is considered toofar removed from the NE to support reliable infer-ence of a role for the NE in causal relations/eventsinvolving the entity (e.g.
[antibodies] for NE), andcases where no relation is stated (e.g.
NE and other[proteins]).
The diversity of this generic categoryof irrelevant cases is a necessary consequence of theaim to avoid annotation involving decisions directlyrelating to other tasks by creating distinctions be-tween e.g.
causal and no relation.3.5 Sufficiency of the setting and relation typesWe have cast the static relation extraction task as al-ways involving an NE, which in the present contextis further always of a protein, gene or RNA type.This restriction considerably simplifies the task con-ceptually and reduces annotation effort as well as ex-pected extraction difficulty, as the type of only oneof the entities involved in the relation can vary sig-nificantly.
However, it is not obvious that the restric-tion allows coherent relations types to be defined.
Ifthe corpus contained frequent cases where the statedrelationship of the NE to the entity involved differenttypes of relevant relations (e.g.
collections of partsof an NE), it would be necessary to either recog-nized ?mixed?
or combined relations or extend thetask to include general entity-entity relations.Interestingly, during annotation we encounteredonly two cases (less than 0.1% of those annotated)involving two of the recognized relation types atonce: mutant NE promoter and 5?
truncation mu-tants of the NE promoter1.
While this result is likelyaffected by a number of complex factors (annota-tion criteria, NE and entity types, granularity of re-lations, etc.
), we find the outcome ?
which was nei-ther planned for nor forced on the data ?
a very en-couraging sign of the sufficiency of the task settingfor this and related domain IE tasks.4 DataWe created the data set by building on the annota-tion of the GENIA Event corpus (Kim et al, 2008),making use of the rich set of annotations alreadycontained in the corpus: term annotation for NEsand other entities (Ohta et al, 2002), annotation ofevents between these terms, and treebank structureclosely following the Penn Treebank scheme (Tateisiet al, 2005).4.1 AnnotationThe existing GENIA annotations served as the basisof the new annotation.
We initially selected as can-didates entities annotated as participating in eventsconsidered in the BioNLP?09 shared task.As the term annotation includes nesting of en-tities, NEs contained within these relevant entitieswere used as the starting point for the annotation.We first performed a preliminary study of the rele-vant static relations occurring between the entitiesand NEs occurring within them to determine theset of relations to annotate.
Next, all unique caseswhere a selected entity contained an NE were anno-tated with the appropriate relation based on the con-tained text of the entity, with the text of the containedNE normalized away.
For the present study, we ex-cluded from consideration cases where the annota-1To resolve these cases, we simply ignored the implied Vari-ant relation.5tion indicated simple aliasing (e.g.
[CREB/ATF]), arelation irrelevant to our purpose and found in theselected data only due to the annotation specifyingone entity but two NEs in these cases.
In this step,830 unique cases representing a total of 1601 entitiescontaining NEs were annotated.The nesting structure of the term annotation doesnot, however, capture all relevant static relations:the term annotation scheme disallows discontinuousterms and annotation of terms with structure morecomplex than base NPs.
Thus, the possible relationsof NEs to entities to which they were connected e.g.by a prepositional phrase cannot be directly derivedfrom the existing annotation.
As an example, thenesting in [NE region] directly suggest the existenceof a relation, while no such connection appears in[region] of NE.
To annotate relations for entities forwhich the term annotation does not identify a can-didate related NE, it is necessary to form (NE, en-tity) pairs with co-occurring NEs.
Even when thecandidate NEs were restricted to those occurring inthe same sentence, the number of such pairs in thecorpus was over 17,000, beyond the scope of whatcould be annotated as part of this effort.
Further, asthe great majority of co-occurring (NE, entity) pairswill have no relevant static relation, we used heuris-tics to increase the proportion of relevant and near-miss cases in the annotated data.We first converted the gold standard annotation ofthe GENIA treebank (Tateisi et al, 2005) into a de-pendency representation using the Stanford parsertools (de Marneffe et al, 2006) and then deter-mined the shortest paths in the dependency analy-ses connecting each relevant entity with each NE.The (NE, entity) pairs were then ordered accordingto the length of these paths, on the assumption thatsyntactically more closely related entities are morelikely to have a relevant static relation.
Annotationthen proceeded on the ordered list of pairs.
Dur-ing the annotation, we further developed more or-dering heuristics, such as giving higher ranking tocandidate pairs connected by a path that containsa subpath known to connect pairs with relevant re-lations.
Such known paths were first derived fromthe BioInfer static relation annotation (Pyysalo et al,2007) and later extracted from previously annotatedcases.
In this annotation process, judgments wereperformed with reference to the full sentence con-Annotated instancesRelation cont.
nonc.
totalPW.Object-Component 394 133 527PW.Component-Object 299 44 343Variant 253 20 273PW.Member-Collection 25 124 149PW.Place-Area 4 1 5Other/Out 626 778 1404total 1601 1100 2701Table 2: Statistics for annotated data.
Number of in-stances given separately for relations annotated betweenentities with contained (cont.)
and non-contained (nonc.)NEs.text.
In total, 1100 cases were annotated in this way.All stages of the annotation process involved onlylists formatted as simple text files for markup andcustom-written software for processing.Table 2 contains statistics for the annotated data,showing separately the number of annotated re-lations of entities to contained and non-containedNEs.
There are interesting differences in the rela-tion type distribution between these two categories,reflecting the different ways in which relations aretypically stated.
This difference in distribution sug-gests that it may be beneficial to give the two casesdifferent treatment in extraction.4.2 RepresentationFor simplicitly of use, we provide the annotated datain two equivalent representations: a simple inlineXML format and a standoff format.
The XML for-mat closely resembles the representation used for theSemEval-2007 Semantic Relations between Nomi-nals task (Girju et al, 2007).
Here, each NE-Entitypair is given its own entry with its sentence con-text in which only the pair is marked.
In the alter-nate standoff representation, all entities appearing ineach sentence are tagged, and the annotated relationsgiven separately.
These representations are easilyprocessed and should be usable with little modifica-tion with many existing relation extraction methods.We further split the data into training,development-test and test sets according to thesame division applied in the BioNLP?09 sharedtask on event extraction.
This division allows thedataset to be easily integrated into settings using theshared task data, combining static relation and eventextraction approaches.65 ExperimentsThe selected task setting and representation form anatural basis for two alternative classification prob-lems: a binary classification problem for detectingthe presence of any relevant relation, and a multi-class classification problem where the correct rela-tion type must also be determined.
In the following,we describe experiments using the dataset in thesetwo settings.
While we apply a state-of-the-art ma-chine learning method and a fairly expressive repre-sentation, the aim of the experiments is only to de-termine the relative difficulty of the relation extrac-tion task and to establish a moderately competitivebaseline result for the newly created dataset.We use a linear Support Vector Machine (SVM)classifier (Chang and Lin, 2001) with N-gram fea-tures defined over token sequences delimited by thebeginning and end of the entity and the position ofthe NE.
The NE is treated as a single token andits text content blinded from the classifier to avoidoverfitting on specific names.
Features are gener-ated from two sequences of tokens: those insidethe entity and, when the NE is not contained in theentity, those between the entity and the NE (inclu-sive of the entity and NE at the sequence bound-aries).
In preliminary experiments on the develop-ment test set we found no clear benefit from includ-ing N-gram features extracted from a broader con-text, supporting an assumption that the problem canbe mostly addressed on the basis of local features.By contrast, preliminary experiments supported theuse of the simple Porter algorithm (Porter, 1980) forstemming, the inclusion of uni-, bi- and trigram fea-tures, and normalization of the feature vectors to unitlength; these were adopted for the final experiment.The SVM regularization parameter was optimizedusing a sparse search with evaluation on the devel-opment test set.We first reduced the annotated data into a binaryclassification problem with the Other/Out class rep-resenting negative (irrelevant) and the other rela-tions positive (relevant) cases.
The results for thisexperiment were very encouraging, giving both ahigh classification accuracy of 86.8% and an F-scoreof 84.1%.
The test set contains 179 positive and269 negative cases, giving a majority baseline ac-curacy of 60.0% and an all-true baseline F-score ofP R FRelevant 81.2 87.2 84.1PW.Object-Component 94.2 75.4 83.8PW.Component-Object 60.0 71.2 65.1Variant 88.0 57.9 69.8PW.Member-Collection 54.5 37.5 44.4Table 3: Classification results with (P)recision, (R)ecalland (F)-score for the binary Relevant/Irrelevant exper-iment and classwise results for the relevant classes(PW.Place-Area excluded for lack of data).57.1%.
The classifier notably and statistically sig-nificantly (McNemar?s test, p < 0.01) outperformsthese simple baselines.
We then performed a sep-arate multiclass classification experiment, predict-ing the specific type of the relation, also includingthe Other/Out type.
In this experiment, accuracy re-mained relatively high at 81.9%, while per-class pre-cision and recall results (considering each class inturn positive and all others negative, see Table 3) in-dicate some remaining challenges.
The results varysomewhat predictably with the number of exam-ples per relation type (Table 2): while PW.Object-Component relations can be predicted at high pre-cision and fair recall, performance for PW.Member-Collection relations falls behind expectations for alocal relation extraction problem.To briefly relate these results to domain causal REresults, we note that the recently proposed state-of-the-art method of (Airola et al, 2008) was reportedto achieve F-scores ranging between 56.4?76.8% onfive different causal RE corpora in a binary classi-fication setting.
As our relatively simple methodachieves a notably higher 84.1% F-score at the bi-nary static RE task, we can conclude that this staticRE task is not as difficult as the causal RE tasks.This is encouraging for the prospects of static RE insupport of domain causal RE and event extraction.6 Related workRelations of types that we have here termed statichave figured prominently in the MUC and ACE se-ries of events that have largely defined the ?gen-eral domain?
IE research program (Sundheim, 1995;Doddington et al, 2004).
In this line of research,event-type annotation is used (as the name implies)to capture events, defined as ?[...]
something thathappens [...] [that] can frequently be described as a7change of state?
(LDC, 2005) and relation-type an-notation is applied for relevant non-causal relation-ships.
General static relations have been studied ex-tensively also in broader, non-IE contexts (see e.g.
(Girju et al, 2007)).In the biomedical domain, static relations have re-ceived relatively little attention.
Domain noun com-pound semantics, including static relations, havebeen considered in studies by (Rosario and Hearst,2001) and (Nakov et al, 2005), but in IE settingsstatic relations tend to appear only implicitly, as inthe RelEx causal RE system of (Fundel et al, 2007),or through the causal relations they imply: for ex-ample, in the AIMed corpus (Bunescu et al, 2005)statements such as NE1/NE2 complex are annotatedas a binding relation between the two NEs, not Part-Whole relations with the broader entity.
By contrast,there has been considerable focus on the extractionof ?things that happen,?
dominantly making use ofrelation-type corpus annotation and extraction ap-proaches: a study of five corpora containing primar-ily causal relation annotation is found in (Pyysalo etal., 2008); more complete lists of domain corporaare maintained by Kevin Cohen2 and Jo?rg Haken-berg3.
For a thorough review of recent work in do-main RE, we refer to (Zweigenbaum et al, 2007).BioInfer (Pyysalo et al, 2007), to the best of ourknowledge the first domain corpus to include event-type annotation, also includes annotation for a setof static relation types.
The design of the BioIn-fer corpus and relationship type ontology as well aswork applying the corpus in jointly targeting eventextraction and static relation extraction (Heimonenet al, 2008; Bjo?rne et al, 2008) have considerablyinfluenced the present study.
A key difference in fo-cus is that BioInfer primarily targets NE-NE rela-tions, while our concern here has been the relationsof NEs with other, non-NE entities, specifically fo-cusing on the requirements of the BioNLP?09 sharedtask.
A class of static relations, connecting Mu-tants and Fragments with their parent proteins, isannotated in the recently introduced ITI TXM cor-pora (Alex et al, 2008).
While somewhat limitedin the scope of static relations, this annotation cov-ers an extensive number of instances, over 20,000,2http://compbio.uchsc.edu/ccp/corpora/obtaining.shtml3http://www2.informatik.hu-berlin.de/?hakenber/links/benchmarks.htmland could likely support the development of high-reliability methods for the extraction extraction ofthese specific static relations.
As discussed in detailin Section 4.1, previously published versions of theGENIA corpus (Kim et al, 2008) contain NE, termand event annotation, but no static relations havebeen annotated in GENIA prior to this effort.While previously introduced corpora thus coveraspects of the annotation required to address thestatic relation extraction task considered in this pa-per, we are not aware of previously published re-sources that would address this task specifically orcontain annotation supporting the entire task as en-visioned here.7 Conclusions and future workIn this paper, we have argued for a position for staticrelations in biomedical domain IE, specificallyadvancing the subtask of extracting static relationsbetween named entities and other entities appearingin their context.
We explored this subtask in thespecific IE context of the BioNLP?09 shared task onevent extraction, identifying possible instances ofstatic relations relevant to the task setting.
We thenstudied these instances of detail, defining a minimalset of basic static relations argued to be sufficientto support the type of IE envisioned in the sharedtask.
We annotated 2701 instances of candidatestatic relations, creating the first domain corpusof static relations explicitly designed to supportIE, and performed experiments demonstrating thatthe static relation extraction task can be performedaccurately, yet retains challenges for future work.The newly annotated corpus is publicly available atwww-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIAto encourage further research on this task.AcknowledgmentsDiscussions with members of the BioInfer groupwere central for developing many of the ideas pre-sented here.
We are grateful for the efforts of MakiNiihori in producing supporting annotation appliedin this work.
This work was partially supportedby Grant-in-Aid for Specially Promoted Research(Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science andTechnology (MEXT), Japan), and Genome NetworkProject (MEXT, Japan).8ReferencesAntti Airola, Sampo Pyysalo, Jari Bjorne, TapioPahikkala, Filip Ginter, and Tapio Salakoski.
2008.All-paths graph kernel for protein-protein interactionextraction with evaluation of cross-corpus learning.BMC Bioinformatics, 9(Suppl 11):S2.Bea Alex, Claire Grover, Barry Haddow, Mijail Kabad-jov, Ewan Klein, Michael Matthews, Stuart Roebuck,Richard Tobin, and Xinglong Wang.
2008.
The ITITXM corpora: Tissue expressions and protein-proteininteractions.
In Proceedings of LREC?08.Jari Bjo?rne, Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, and TapioSalakoski.
2008.
How complex are complex protein-protein interactions?
In Proceedings SMBM?08.Razvan C Bunescu, Ruifang Ge, Rohit J. Kate, Ed-ward M. Marcotte, Raymond J. Mooney, Arun KumarRamani, and Yuk Wah Wong.
2005.
Comparative ex-periments on learning information extractors for pro-teins and their interactions.
Artificial Intelligence inMedicine, 33(2):139?155.Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin, 2001.
LIBSVM: alibrary for support vector machines.George Doddington, Alexis Mitchell, Mark Przybocki,Lance Ramshaw, Stephanie Strassel, and RalphWeischedel.
2004.
The Automatic Content Extrac-tion (ACE) program: Tasks, data, and evaluation.
InProceedings of LREC?04, pages 837?840.Katrin Fundel, Robert Kuffner, and Ralf Zimmer.
2007.RelEx?Relation extraction using dependency parsetrees.
Bioinformatics, 23(3):365?371.Roxana Girju, Preslav Nakov, Vivi Nastase, Stan Sz-pakowicz, Peter Turney, and Deniz Yuret.
2007.Semeval-2007 task 04: Classification of semantic re-lations between nominals.
In Proceedings of Se-mEval?07, pages 13?18.Juho Heimonen, Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, and TapioSalakoski.
2008.
Complex-to-pairwise mapping ofbiological relationships using a semantic network rep-resentation.
In Proceedings of SMBM?08.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2008.Corpus annotation for mining biomedical events fromliterature.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(10).Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Overview ofbionlp?09 shared task on event extraction.
In Proceed-ings of BioNLP?09.Martin Krallinger, Florian Leitner, and Alfonso Valen-cia.
2007.
Assessment of the second BioCreative PPItask: Automatic extraction of protein-protein interac-tions.
In Proceedings of BioCreative II, pages 41?54.LDC.
2005.
ACE (automatic content extraction) en-glish annotation guidelines for events.
Technical re-port, Linguistic Data Consortium.R.
Leaman and G. Gonzalez.
2008.
Banner: An exe-cutable survey of advances in biomedical named entityrecognition.
In Proceedings of PSB?08, pages 652?663.Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Bill MacCartney, andChristopher D. Manning.
2006.
Generating typed de-pendency parses from phrase structure parses.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC?06, pages 449?454.Preslav Nakov, Ariel Schwartz, Brian Wolf, and MartiHearst.
2005.
Scaling up bionlp: Application of a textannotation architecture to noun compound bracketing.In Proceedings of BioLINK?05.Claire Ne?dellec.
2005.
Learning language in logic -genic interaction extraction challenge.
In Proceedingsof LLL?05.Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, Hideki Mima, and Jun?ichiTsujii.
2002.
GENIA corpus: An annotated researchabstract corpus in molecular biology domain.
In Pro-ceedings of the Human Language Technology Confer-ence (HLT?02), pages 73?77.M.
F. Porter.
1980.
An algorithm for suffix stripping.Program, 14(2):130?137.Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, Juho Heimonen, JariBjo?rne, Jorma Boberg, Jouni Ja?rvinen, and TapioSalakoski.
2007.
BioInfer: A corpus for informationextraction in the biomedical domain.
BMC Bioinfor-matics, 8(50).Sampo Pyysalo, Antti Airola, Juho Heimonen, and JariBjo?rne.
2008.
Comparative analysis of five protein-protein interaction corpora.
BMC Bioinformatics,9(Suppl.
3):S6.Barbara Rosario and Marti Hearst.
2001.
Classify-ing the semantic relations in noun compounds via adomain-specific lexical hierarchy.
In Proceedings ofEMLNP?01, pages 82?90.Beth M. Sundheim.
1995.
Overview of results of theMUC-6 evaluation.
In Proceedings of MUC-6, pages13?31.Yuka Tateisi, Akane Yakushiji, Tomoko Ohta, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2005.
Syntax annotation for the GE-NIA corpus.
In Proceedings of IJCNLP?05, pages222?227.John Wilbur, Larry Smith, and Lorrie Tanabe.
2007.Biocreative 2 gene mention task.
In Proceedings ofBioCreative 2, pages 7?16.Morton E. Winston, Roger Chaffin, and Douglas Her-rmann.
1987.
A taxonomy of part-whole relations.Cognitive Science, 11.Pierre Zweigenbaum, Dina Demner-Fushman, Hong Yu,and Kevin B. Cohen.
2007.
Frontiers of biomedicaltext mining: Current progress.
Briefings in Bioinfor-matics.9
