Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technologies for African Languages ?
AfLaT 2009, pages 96?103,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploiting Cross-linguistic Similarities in Zulu and XhosaComputational MorphologyLaurette PretoriusSchool of ComputingUniversity of South Africa &Meraka Institute, CSIRPretoria, South Africapretol@unisa.ac.zaSonja BoschDepartment of African LanguagesUniversity of South AfricaPretoria, South Africaboschse@unisa.ac.zaAbstractThis paper investigates the possibilities thatcross-linguistic similarities and dissimilaritiesbetween related languages offer in terms ofbootstrapping a morphological analyser.
Inthis case an existing Zulu morphological ana-lyser prototype (ZulMorph) serves as basisfor a Xhosa analyser.
The investigation isstructured around the morphotactics and themorphophonological alternations of the lan-guages involved.
Special attention is given tothe so-called ?open?
class, which representsthe word root lexicons for specifically nounsand verbs.
The acquisition and coverage ofthese lexicons prove to be crucial for the suc-cess of the analysers under development.The bootstrapped morphological analyser isapplied to parallel test corpora and the resultsare discussed.
A variety of cross-linguistic ef-fects is illustrated with examples from thecorpora.
It is found that bootstrapping mor-phological analysers for languages that ex-hibit significant structural and lexical simi-larities may be fruitfully exploited for devel-oping analysers for lesser-resourced lan-guages.1  IntroductionZulu and Xhosa belong to the Nguni languages, agroup of languages from the South-eastern Bantuzone and, as two of the eleven official languagesof South Africa, are spoken by approximately 9and 8 million mother-tongue speakers, respec-tively.
In terms of natural language processing,particularly computational morphology, theBantu languages including Zulu and Xhosa cer-tainly belong to the lesser-studied languages ofthe world.One of the few Bantu languages for whichcomputational morphological analysers havebeen fully developed so far is Swahili (Hur-skainen, 1992; De Pauw and De Schryver, 2008).A computational morphological analyser proto-type for Zulu (ZulMorph) is in an advancedstage of development, the results of which havealready been used in other applications.
Prelimi-nary experiments and results towards obtainingmorphological analysers for Xhosa, Swati andNdebele by bootstrapping ZulMorph were par-ticularly encouraging (Bosch et al, 2008).
Thisbootstrapping process may be briefly summa-rised as a sequence of steps in which the baselineanalyser, ZulMorph, is applied to the new lan-guage (in this case Xhosa) and then systemati-cally extended to include the morphology of theother language.
The extensions concern the wordroot lexicon, followed by the grammatical mor-pheme lexicons and finally by the appropriatemorphophonological rules.
The guiding principlein this process is as follows: Use the Zulu mor-phological structure wherever applicable andonly extend the analyser to accommodate differ-ences between the source language (Zulu) andthe target language (in this case Xhosa).
So farthe question as to whether the bootstrapped ana-lyser, extended to include Xhosa morphology,could also improve the coverage of the Zulu ana-lyser was not specifically addressed in Bosch etal.
(2008).Cross-linguistic similarity and its exploitationis a rather wide concept.
In its broadest sense itaims at investigating and developing resourcesand technologies that can be compared andlinked, used and analysed with common ap-proaches, and that contain linguistic informationfor the same or comparable phenomena.
In thispaper the focus is on the morphological similari-ties and dissimilarities between Zulu and Xhosaand how these cross-linguistic similarities anddissimilarities inform the bootstrapping of amorphological analyser for Zulu and Xhosa.
Inparticular, issues such as open versus closedclasses, and language specific morphotactics andalternation rules are discussed.
Special attention96is given to the word root lexicons.
In addition,the procedure for bootstrapping is broadened toinclude a guesser variant of the morphologicalanalyser.The structure of the paper is as follows: Sec-tion 2 gives a general overview of the morpho-logical structure of the languages concerned.
Themodelling and implementation approach is alsodiscussed.
This is followed in sections 3 and 4 bya systematic exposition of the cross-linguisticdissimilarities pertaining to morphotactics andmorphophonological alternations.
Section 5 fo-cuses on the so-called ?open?
class, which repre-sents the word root lexicons for specificallynouns and verbs.
The acquisition and coverage ofthese lexicons prove to be crucial for the successof the analysers under development.
Section 6addresses the use of the guesser variant of themorphological analyser as well as the applicationof the bootstrapped morphological analyser toparallel test corpora.
A variety of cross-linguisticeffects is illustrated with examples from the cor-pora.
This provides novel insights into the inves-tigation and exploitation of cross-linguistic simi-larities and their significance for bootstrappingpurposes.
Section 7 concerns future work and aconclusion.2 General overview2.1 Morphological structureBantu languages are characterised by a rich ag-glutinating morphological structure, based ontwo principles, namely the nominal classificationsystem, and the concordial agreement system.According to the nominal classification system,nouns are categorised by prefixal morphemes.These noun prefixes have, for ease of analysis,been assigned numbers by scholars who haveworked within the field of Bantu linguistics, InZulu a noun such as umuntu 'person' for instance,consists of a noun prefix umu- followed by thenoun stem -ntu and is classified as a class 1noun, while the noun isitha 'rival' consists of anoun prefix isi- and the noun stem -tha and isclassified as a class 7 noun.
Noun prefixes gen-erally indicate number, with the uneven classnumbers designating singular and the corre-sponding even class numbers designating plural.The plural forms of the above examples wouldtherefore respectively be the class 2 noun abantu'persons' and the class 8 noun izitha 'rivals'.
Wefollow Meinhof's (1932:48) numbering systemwhich distinguishes between 23 noun prefixesaltogether in the various Bantu languages.The concordial agreement system is signifi-cant in the Bantu languages because it forms thebackbone of the whole sentence structure.
Con-cordial agreement is brought about by the vari-ous noun classes in the sense that their prefixeslink the noun to other words in the sentence.
Thislinking is manifested by a concordial morphemethat is derived from the noun prefix, and usuallybears a close resemblance to the noun prefix, asillustrated in the following example:Izitsha lezi ezine zephukile?These four plates are broken?This concordial agreement system governsgrammatical correlation in verbs, adjectives, pos-sessives, pronouns, and so forth.
Bantu lan-guages are predominantly agglutinating and po-lymorphematic in nature, with affixes attached tothe root or core of the word.The morphological make-up of the verb isconsiderably more complex than that of thenoun.
A number of slots, both preceding and fol-lowing the verb root may contain numerousmorphemes with functions such as derivations,inflection for tense-aspect and marking of nomi-nal arguments.
Examples are cross-reference ofthe subject and object by means of class- (or per-son-/number-)specific object markers, locativeaffixes, morphemes distinguishing verb forms inclause-final and non-final position, negation etc.Despite the complexities of these domains,they are comparable across language boundaries,specifically Nguni language boundaries, with adegree of formal similarity that lends itself toexploitation for bootstrapping purposes.2.2 Modelling and ImplementationIn the modelling and implementation of the mor-phological structure a finite-state approach isfollowed.
The suitability of finite-state ap-proaches to computational morphology is wellknown and has resulted in numerous softwaretoolkits and development environments for thispurpose (cf.
Koskenniemi, 1997 and Karttunen,2001).
Yli-Jyr?
(2005) discusses the importanceof a finite-state morphology toolkit for lesser-studies languages.
He maintains that ?
[a]lthoughsome lexicons and morphological grammars canbe learned automatically from texts ... fullyautomatic or unsupervised methods are not suffi-cient.
This is due to two reasons.
First, theamount of freely available corpora is limited formany of the less studied languages.
Second,many of the less studied languages have richmorphologies that are difficult to learn accuratelywith unsupervised methods?.97The Xerox finite-state tools (Beesley andKarttunen, 2003) as one of the preferred toolkitsfor modelling and implementing natural lan-guage morphology, is used in this work.The morphological challenges in computa-tional morphological analysis comprise the mod-elling of two general linguistic components,namely morphotactics (word formation rules) aswell as morphophonological alternations.Ideally, the morphotactics component shouldinclude all and only word roots in the language,all and only the affixes for all parts-of-speech(word categories) as well as a complete descrip-tion of the valid combinations and orders of thesemorphemes for forming all and only the words ofthe language concerned.
Moreover, the morpho-phonological alternations rules should constituteall known sound changes that occur at morphemeboundaries.
The combination of these two com-ponents constitutes an accurate model of themorphology of the language(s) under considera-tion.The Xerox lexicon compiler, lexc, is well-suited to capturing the morphotactics of Zulu.
Alexc script, consisting of cascades of so-calledcontinuation classes (of morpheme lexicons) rep-resenting the (concatenative) morpheme se-quencing, is compiled into a finite-state network.The Xerox regular expression language, xfst,provides an extended regular expression calculuswith sophisticated Replace Rules for describingthe morphophonological alternations rules ofZulu.
The xfst script is also compiled into a fi-nite-state network.
These networks are finallycombined by means of the operation of composi-tion into a so-called Lexical Transducer that con-stitutes the morphological analyser and containsall the morphological information of Zulu, in-cluding derivation, inflection, alternation andcompounding.
Pretorius and Bosch (2002) ad-dress the suitability of this approach to Zulumorphology and illustrate it by means of exam-ples of lexc and xfst scripts for modelling theZulu noun.A detailed exposition of the design and im-plementation of ZulMorph may be found in Pre-torius and Bosch (2003).
In addition to consider-ing both the accurate modelling of the morpho-tactics and the morphophonological alternationrules, they also address implementation and otherissues that need to be resolved in order to pro-duce a useful software artefact for automatedmorphological analysis.
Issues of implementa-tion include a justification for the finite-state ap-proach followed, designing for accuracy and cor-rectness and decisions regarding the analyser'sinterface with its environment and its usage.Particular attention is paid to the handling ofexceptions; the modelling of separated depend-encies by means of so-called flag-diacritics; thespecification of lexical forms (analyses) in termsof morphological granularity and feature infor-mation; the choice of an associated and appropri-ate morphological tag set and also the position-ing of these tags in relation to the morphemesthey are associated with in the morphologicalanalyses (lexical forms) that are rendered.The components of ZulMorph, including itsscope in terms of word categories and their mor-phological structure, are summarised in Table 1while its lexical coverage as reflected by thenumber of different noun stems, verb roots etc.
isdiscussed in section 5.The bootstrapping of ZulMorph to providefor Xhosa as well requires a careful investigationof the cross-linguistic similarities and dissimi-larities and how they are best modelled and im-plemented.
This aspect will be discussed in moredetail in the following section.Morphotactics(lexc)Affixes forall parts-of-speech (e.g.subject &object con-cords, nounclass pre-fixes, verbextensionsetc.
)Word roots(e.g.
nouns,verbs, rela-tives, ideo-phones)Rules forlegal combi-nations andorders ofmorphemes(e.g.
u-ya-ngi-thand-aand not *ya-u-a-thand-ngi)Morpho-phonologicalalternations(xfst)Rules that determine the form of each mor-pheme(e.g.
ku-lob-w-a > ku-lotsh-w-a, u-mu-lomo >u-m-lomo)Table 1: Zulu Morphological Analyser Compo-nents3 MorphotacticsIn word formation we distinguish between so-called closed and open classes.
The open classaccepts the addition of new items by means ofprocesses such as borrowing, coining, com-pounding and derivation.
In the context of thispaper, the open class represents word roots in-cluding verb roots and noun stems.
The closedclass represents affixes that model the fixedmorphological structure of words, as well asitems such as conjunctions, pronouns etc.
Typi-cally no new items can be added to the closedclass (Fromkin et al, 2003:74).Since our point of departure is ZulMorph, wefocus on Xhosa affixes that differ from their Zulu98counterparts.
A few examples are given in Table2.Certain areas in the Xhosa grammar need to bemodelled independently and then built into theMorpheme Zulu XhosaNoun Class PrefixesClass 1 and 3 um(u)-full form umu- with monosyllabic noun stems,shortened form with polysyllabic noun stems:umu-ntu, um-fanaum- with all noun stems: um-ntu, um-fanaClass 2a o-: o-baba oo-: oo-bawoClass 9in- with all noun stems:in-nyamai- with noun stems beginning with h, i, m, n,ny: i-hamboClass 10 izin- with monosyllabic and polysyllabic stems.izin-ja;  izin-dlebeiin- with polysyllabic stems:iin-dlebeContracted subject concords (future tense).
Examples:1ps2ps, Class 1 & 3Class 4 & 9ngo-wo-yo-ndo-uyo-iyo-Object concords1ps ngi- ndi-Absolute pronouns1psClass 15minakhonamnakonaDemonstrative Pronouns: Three positional types of the demonstrative pronouns are listed separately for each language.
Examples:Class 1Class 5Pos.
1 lo; Pos.
2 lowo; Pos.
3 lowayaPos.
1 leli; Pos.
2 lelo; Pos.
3 leliyaPos.
1 lo; Pos.
2 lowo/loo; Pos.
3 lowaPos.
1 eli; Pos.
2 elo; Pos.
3 eliyaAdjective basic prefixes1ps2psClass1& 3Class 8ngim(u-)umu-mu-zin-nim-um-m-zi-Locative demonstrative copulatives : Three positional types of the so-called locative demonstrative copulatives differ considerably forZulu and Xhosa and are therefore listed separately for each language.
Examples:Class 1Class 5Pos.
1 nangu; Pos.
2 nango; Pos.
3 nanguyaPos.
1 nanti; Pos.
2 nanto; Pos.
3 nantiyaPos.
1 nanku; Pos.
2 nanko; Pos.
3 nankuyaPos.
1 nali; Pos.
2 nalo; Pos.
3 naliyaCopulatives : Formation of copulatives derived from Xhosa nouns differs considerably from Zulu.
This construction is class dependentin Xhosa and is modelled differently to its Zulu counterpart.
Examples:yi- combines with noun prefixes i-:yi-indoda > yindodangu- combines with noun prefixes u-, o-, a:ngu-umuntu > ngumuntungu-obaba > ngobabangu-amakati > ngamakatiwu combines with noun prefixes u-, o-:wu-muntu > wumuntu,wu-obaba > wobabangu- combines with classes 1, 1a, 2, 2a, 3 &6, e.g.
ngu-umntu > ngumntuyi- combines with classes 4 imi- and 9 in-,e.g.yi-imithi > yimithili- combines with class 5 i(li)-:li-ihashe > lihashesi- combines with class 7 isi-:si-isitya > sisityaetc.Table 2.
Examples of variations in Zulu and Xhosa ?closed?
morpheme informationanalyser, for instance the formation of the so-called temporal form that does not occur in Zulu.The temporal form is an indication of when anaction takes place or when a process is carriedout, and has a present or past tense form (Louw,et al, 1984:163).
The simple form consists of asubject concord plus -a- followed by the verbstem in the infinitive, the preprefix of which hasbeen elided, for example si-a-uku-buya > sa-kubuya ?when we return?.
In terms of the wordformation rules this means that an additionalXhosa specific morpheme lexicon (continuationclass) needs to be included.
To facilitate accuratemodelling appropriate constraints also need to beformulated.The bootstrapping process is iterative and newinformation regarding dissimilar morphologicalconstructions is incorporated systematically in99the morphotactics component.
Similarly, rulesare adapted in a systematic manner.
The processalso inherently relies on similarities between thelanguages, and therefore the challenge is tomodel the dissimilarities accurately.
The care-fully conceptualised and appropriately structured(lexc) continuation classes embodying the Zulumorphotactics provide a suitable framework forincluding all the closed class dissimilarities dis-cussed above.4 Morphophonological alternationsDifferences in morphophonological alternationsbetween Zulu and Xhosa are exemplified in Ta-ble 3.
Some occur in noun class prefixes of class10 and associated constructions, such as prefix-ing of adverbial morphemes (na-, nga-, etc.
).Others are found in instances of palatalisation, ?asound change whereby a bilabial sound in pas-sive formation, locativisation and diminutiveformation is replaced by a palatal sound?
(Poulosand Msimang, 1998:531).Zulu XhosaClass 10 class prefix izin- occurs before monosyllabic as wellas polysyllabic stems, e.g.
izinja, izindlebeAdverb prefix na + i > ne, e.g.
nezindlebe (na-izin-ndlebe)Class 10 class prefix izin- changes to iin- before polysyllabic stems,e.g.
izinja, iindlebeAdverb prefix na + ii > nee; e.g.
neendlebe (na-iin-ndlebe)Palatalisation with passive, diminutive & locative formation:b   > tsh-hlab-w-a > -hlatsh-w-a, intaba-ana > intatsh-ana,indaba > entdatsheniph > sh-boph-w-a > -bosh-w-a, iphaphu-ana > iphash-anaiphaphu > ephasheniPalatalisation with passive, diminutive & locative formation:b > ty-hlab-w-a > -hlaty-w-a, intaba-ana > intaty-a naihlobo > ehlotyeniph > tsh?boph-w-a  > -botsh-w-a, iphaphu-ana > iphatsh-ana,usapho > elusatsheniTable 3.
Examples of variations in Zulu and Xhosa morphophonologyAs before, the Zulu alternations are assumedto apply to Xhosa unless otherwise modelled.Regarding language-specific alternations specialcare is taken to ensure that the rules fire only inthe desired contexts and order.
For example,Xhosa-specific sound changes should not firebetween Zulu-specific morphemes, and viceversa.
This applies, for instance, to the vowelcombination ii, which does not occur in Zulu.While the general rule ii > i holds for Zulu, thevowel combination ii needs to be preserved inXhosa.5 The word root lexiconsCompiling sufficiently extensive and completeword root lexicons (i.e.
populating the ?open?word classes) is a major challenge, particularlyfor lesser-resourced languages (Yli-Jyr?,2005:2).
A pragmatic approach of harvestingroots from all readily available sources is fol-lowed.
The Zulu lexicon is based on an extensiveword list dating back to the mid 1950s (cf.
Dokeand Vilakazi, 1964), but significant improve-ments and additions are regularly made.
At pre-sent the Zulu word roots include noun stems withclass information (15 759), verb roots (7 567),relative stems (406), adjective stems (48), ideo-phones (1 360), conjunctions (176).
Noun stemswith class information (4 959) and verb roots (5984) for the Xhosa lexicon were extracted fromvarious recent prototype paper dictionarieswhereas relative stems (27), adjective stems (17),ideophones (30) and conjunctions (28) were onlyincluded as representative samples at this stage.The most obvious difference between the twoword root lexicons is the sparse coverage ofnouns for Xhosa.
A typical shortcoming in thecurrent Xhosa lexicon is limited class informa-tion for noun stems.Observations are firstly occurrences of sharednoun stems (mainly loan words) but differentclass information, typically class 5/6 for Zuluversus class 9/10 for Xhosa, for example?box?
-bhokisi (Xhosa 9/10; Zulu 5/6)?duster?
-dasta (Xhosa 9/10; Zulu 5/6)?pinafore?
-fasikoti (Xhosa 9/10; Zulu 5/6).It should be noted that although a Xhosa nounstem may be identical to its Zulu counterpart,analysis is not possible if the class prefix differsfrom the specified Zulu class prefix + noun stemcombination in the morphotactics component ofthe analyser.A second observation is identical noun stemswith correct class information, valid for bothlanguages, but so far only appearing in the Xhosalexicon, for example?number?
-namba (Xhosa and Zulu 9/10)?dice?-dayisi (Xhosa and Zulu 5/6).100This phenomenon occurs mainly with bor-rowed nouns that are more prevalent in theXhosa lexicon than in the more outdated Zululexicon.A closer look at the contents of the lexiconsreveals that the two languages have the followingin common: 1027 noun stems with correspondingclass information, 1722 verb roots, 20 relativestems, 11 adjective stems, 10 ideophones and 9conjunctions.6 A computational approach to cross-linguistic similarityThis section discusses the extension of the boot-strapping procedure of the morphological ana-lyser to include the use of the guesser variant ofthe morphological analyser.
In addition the ap-plication of the bootstrapped morphological ana-lyser to parallel test corpora is addressed.
A vari-ety of cross-linguistic effects is illustrated withexamples from the corpora.Even in languages where extensive word rootlexicons are available, new word roots may occurfrom time to time.
The Xerox toolkit makes pro-vision for a guesser variant of the morphologi-cal analyser that uses typical word root patternsfor identifying potential new word roots (Beesleyand Karttunen, 2003:444).
By exploiting themorphotactics and morphophonological alterna-tions of the analyser prototype, the guesser isable to analyse morphologically valid words ofwhich the roots match the specified pattern.Therefore, in cases where both the Zulu andXhosa word root lexicons do not contain a root,the guesser may facilitate the bootstrappingprocess.The extended bootstrapping procedure isschematically represented in Figure 1.Since the available Zulu word list represents arather outdated vocabulary, it is to be expectedthat the coverage of word roots/stems from a re-cent corpus of running Zulu text may be unsatis-factory, due to the dynamic nature of language.For example the word list contains no entry ofthe loan word utoliki ?interpreter?
since ?inter-preter?
is rendered only as i(li)humusha ?transla-tor?, the traditional term derived from the verbstem ?humusha ?to translate, interpret?.
Provi-sion therefore needs to be made for the constantinclusion of new roots/stems, be they newlycoined, compounds or as yet unlisted foreignroots/stems.Updating and refining the lexicon requires theavailability of current and contemporaryFigure 1.
Bootstrapping procedurelanguage resources in the form of text cor-pora as well as human intervention in the formof  expert lexicographers or linguists to deter-mine the eligibility of such words.The language resources chosen to illustratethis point are parallel corpora in the form of theSouth African Constitution (The Constitution,(sa).
The reason for the choice of these corpora isthat they are easily accessible on-line, and it isassumed that the nature of the contents ensuresaccurate translations.The results of the application of the boot-strapped morphological analyser to this corpusare as follows:Zulu StatisticsCorpus size:   7057 typesAnalysed:    5748 types (81.45 %)Failures:  1309 types (18.55%)Failures analysed by guesser: 1239 typesFailures not analysed by guesser: 70 typesXhosa StatisticsCorpus size:  7423 types.Analysed:   5380 types (72.48 %)Failures:  2043 types (27.52%)Failures analysed by guesser: 1772 typesFailures not analysed by guesser: 271 typesThe output of the combined morphologicalanalyser enables a detailed investigation intocross-linguistic features pertaining to the mor-phology of Zulu and Xhosa.
The outcome of thisinvestigation is illustrated by means of typicalexamples from the corpora.
This provides novelnsights into the investigation and exploitation of101cross-linguistic similarities and their significancefor bootstrapping purposes, as shown in Figure 1.Notational conventions include [Xh] for Xho-sa specific morphemes, numbers indicate nounclass information, e.g.
[NPrePre9] tags thenoun preprefix of a class 9 noun while [Rel-Conc8] tags the relative concord of a class 8noun.Examples from the Zulu corpus:The analysis of the Zulu word ifomu ?form?
usesthe Xhosa noun stem ?fomu (9/10) in the Xhosalexicon in the absence of the Zulu stem:ifomu i[NPrePre9]fomu[Xh][NStem]The analysis of the Zulu word ukutolikwa ?tointerpret?
uses the Xhosa verb root-tolik- in the Xhosa lexicon:ukutolikwau[NPrePre15]ku[BPre15]tolik[Xh][VRoot]w[PassExt]a[VerbTerm]Examples from the Xhosa corpus:The analysis of the Xhosa words bephondo ?ofthe province?
and esikhundleni ?in the office?
usethe Zulu noun stems ?phondo (5/6) and-khundleni (7/8) respectively in the Zulu lexicon:bephondoba[PossConc14]i[NPrePre5]li[BPre5]phondo[NStem]bephondoba[PossConc2]i[NPrePre5]li[BPre5]phondo[NStem]esikhundlenie[LocPre]i[NPrePre7]si[BPre7]khundla[NStem]ini[LocSuf]The analysis of the Xhosa words ekukhethweni?in the election?
and esihlonyelweyo ?amended?use the Zulu verb roots ?kheth- and ?hlom-respectively in the Xhosa lexicon:ekukhethwenie[LocPre]u[NPrePre15]ku[BPre15]kheth[VRoot]w[PassExt]a[VerbTerm]ini[LocSuf]esihlonyelweyoesi[RelConc7]hlom[VRoot]el[ApplExt]w[PassExt]e[VerbTermPerf]yo[RelSuf]Ideophones used from the Zulu lexicon are:ga[Ideoph]  qho[Ideoph]sa[Ideoph]  tu[Ideoph]ya[Ideoph]Relative stems used from the Zulu lexicon are:mandla[RelStem]mdaka[RelStem]njalo[RelStem]mcimbi[RelStem]Conjunctions used from the Zulu lexicon are:futhi[Conj]ukuthi[Conj]Examples of the guesser output from the Zulucorpus:The compound noun -shayamthetho (7/8) ?legis-lature?
is not listed in the Zulu lexicon, but wasguessed correctly:isishayamthethoi[NPrePre7]si[BPre7]shayamthetho-Guess[NStem]The following are two examples of borrowednouns (amabhajethi ?budgets?
and amakhemikali?chemicals?)
not in the Zulu lexicon, but guessedcorrectly:amabhajethia[NPrePre6]ma[BPre6]bhajethi-Guess[NStem]amakhemikalia[NPrePre6]ma[BPre6]khemikali-Guess[NStem]The borrowed verb root -rejest- ?register?
is notlisted in the Zulu lexicon, but was guessed cor-rectly:ezirejestiweezi[RelConc8]rejest-Guess[VRoot]iw[PassExt]e[VerbTermPerf]ezi[RelConc10]rejest-Guess[VRoot]iw[PassExt]e[VerbTermPerf]The relatively small number of failures thatare not analysed by the guesser and for which noguessed verb roots or noun stems are offered,simply do not match the word root patterns asspecified for Zulu and Xhosa in the analyser pro-totype, namely[C (C (C)) V]+ C (C (C))for verb roots and[C (C (C)) V]+ C (C (C)) Vfor noun stems.
The majority of such failures iscaused by spelling errors and foreign words inthe test corpus.7 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper we focused on two aspects ofcross-linguistic similarity between Zulu andXhosa, namely the morphological structure(morphotactics and alternation rules) and theword root lexicons.Regarding the morphological structure onlydifferences between Zulu and Xhosa were added.102Therefore, Zulu informed Xhosa in the sense thatthe systematically developed grammar for Zul-Morph was directly available for the Xhosa ana-lyser development, which significantly reducedthe development time for the Xhosa prototypecompared to that for ZulMorph.Special attention was also given to the so-called ?open?
class, which represents the wordroot lexicons for specifically nouns and verbs.The acquisition and coverage of these lexiconsproved to be crucial for the success of the ana-lysers under development.
Since we were fortu-nate in having access to word root lexicons forboth Zulu and Xhosa we included what wasavailable in such a way that word roots could beshared between the languages.
Here, although toa lesser extent, Xhosa also informed Zulu byproviding a current (more up to date) Xhosa lexi-con.
In addition, the guesser variant was em-ployed in identifying possible new roots in thetest corpora, both for Zulu and for Xhosa.In general it is concluded that bootstrappingmorphological analysers for languages that ex-hibit significant structural and lexical similaritiesmay be fruitfully exploited for developing ana-lysers for lesser-resourced languages.Future work includes the application of theapproach followed in this work to the otherNguni languages, namely Swati and Ndebele(Southern and Zimbabwe); the application to lar-ger corpora, and the subsequent construction ofstand-alone versions.
Finally, the combined ana-lyser could also be used for (corpus-based) quan-titative studies in cross-linguistic similarity.AcknowledgementsThis material is based upon work supported bythe South African National Research Foundationunder grant number 2053403.
Any opinion, find-ings and conclusions or recommendations ex-pressed in this material are those of the authorsand do not necessarily reflect the views of theNational Research Foundation.ReferencesBeesley, K.R.
and Karttunen, L. 2003.
Finite StateMorphology.
CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA.Bosch, S., Pretorius, L., Podile, K. and Fleisch, A.2008.
Experimental fast-tracking of morphologicalanalysers for Nguni languages.
Proceedings of the6th International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation, Marrakech, Morocco.ISBN 2-9517408-4-0.De Pauw, G. and de Schryver, G-M. 2008.
Improvingthe computational morphological analysis of aSwahili corpus for lexicographic purposes.
Lexikos18 (AFRILEX-reeks/series 18: 2008): 303?318.Doke, C.M.
and Vilakazi, B.W.
1964.
Zulu?EnglishDictionary.
Witwatersrand University Press, Jo-hannesburg.Fromkin, V., Rodman, R. and Hyams, N. 2007.
AnIntroduction to Language.
Thomson Heinle, Mas-sachusetts, USA.Hurskainen, A.
1992.
A two-level formalism for theanalysis of Bantu morphology: an application toSwahili.
Nordic Journal of African Studies,1(1):87-122.Koskenniemi, K. 1997.
Representations and finite-state components in natural language, in Finite-State Language Processing E. Roche and Y. Scha-bes (eds.
), pp.
99?116.
MIT Press, Boston.Karttunen, L. 2001.
Applications of finite-statetrransducers in natural language processing, in Im-plementation and application of automata, S. Yuand A. Paun (eds.).
Lecture Notes in ComputerScience, 2088:34-46.
Springer, Heidelberg.Louw, J.A., Finlayson, R. and Satyo, S.C. 1984.Xhosa Guide 3 for XHA100-F. University of SouthAfrica, Pretoria.Meinhof, C. 1932.
Introduction to the phonology ofthe Bantu languages.
Dietrich Reimer/ErnstVohsen, Berlin.Poulos, G. and Msimang, C.T.
1998.
A linguisticanalysis of Zulu.
Via Afrika, Pretoria.Pretorius, L. and Bosch, S.E.
2002.
Finite state com-putational morphology: Treatment of the Zulunoun.
South African Computer Journal, 28:30-38.Pretorius, L. and Bosch, S.E.
2003.
Finite state com-putational morphology: An analyzer prototype forZulu.
Machine Translation ?
Special issue on fi-nite-state language resources and language proc-essing, 18:195-216.The Constitution.
(sa).
[O].
Available:http://www.concourt.gov.za/site/theconstitution/thetext.htm.
Accessed on 31 January 2008.Yli-Jyr?, A.
2005.
Toward a widely usable finite-statemorphology workbench for less studied languages?
Part I: Desiderata.
Nordic Journal of AfricanStudies, 14(4): 479 ?
491.103
