Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 10?18,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsDistinguishing Historical from Current Problems in ClinicalReports?Which Textual Features Help?Danielle L. Mowery MS, Henk Harkema PhD, John N. Dowling MS MD,Jonathan L. Lustgarten PhD, Wendy W. Chapman PhDDepartment of Biomedical InformaticsUniversity of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa 15260, USAdlm31@pitt.edu, heh23@pitt.edu, dowling@pitt.edu, jll47@pitt.edu, wec6@pitt.eduAbstractDetermining whether a condition is historicalor recent is important for accurate results inbiomedicine.
In this paper, we investigate fourtypes of information found in clinical text thatmight be used to make this distinction.
Weconducted a descriptive, exploratory study us-ing annotation on clinical reports to determinewhether this temporal information is usefulfor classifying conditions as historical or re-cent.
Our initial results suggest that few ofthese feature values can be used to predicttemporal classification.1 IntroductionClinical applications for decision support, biosur-veillance and quality of care assessment depend onpatient data described in unstructured, free-textreports.
For instance, patient data in emergencydepartment reports contain valuable indicators forbiosurveillance applications that may provide earlysigns and symptoms suggestive of an outbreak.Quality assurance departments can use free-textmedical record data to assess adherence to qualitycare guidelines, such as determining whether anMI patient was given an aspirin within twenty-fourhours of arrival.
In either application, one mustconsider how to address the question of time, buteach of the applications requires a different level oftemporal granularity: the biosurveillance systemneeds a coarse-grained temporal model that dis-cerns whether the signs and symptoms are histori-cal or recent.
In contrast, the quality assurancesystem needs a fine-grained temporal model toidentify the admission event, when (or if) aspirinwas given, and the order and duration of time be-tween these events.
One important problem in nat-ural language processing is extracting the appro-priate temporal granularity for a given task.Many solutions exist for extracting temporal in-formation, and each is designed to address ques-tions of various degrees of temporal granularity,including determining whether a condition is his-torical or recent, identifying explicit temporal ex-pressions, and identifying temporal relationsamong events in text.
(Chapman et al, 2007; Zhouet al, 2008; Irvine et al, 2008;  Verhagen and Pus-tejovsky, 2008; Bramsen et al, 2006).
We pre-viously extended the NegEx algorithm in ConText,a simple algorithm that relies on lexical cues todetermine whether a condition is historical or re-cent (Chapman et al, 2007).
However, ConTextperforms with moderate recall (76%) and precision(75%) across different report types implying thattrigger terms and simple temporal expressions arenot sufficient for the task of identifying historicalconditions.In order to extend work in identifying historicalconditions, we conducted a detailed annotationstudy of potentially useful temporal classificationfeatures for conditions found in six genres of clini-cal text.
Our three main objectives were: (1) cha-racterize the temporal similarity and differencesfound in different genres of clinical text; (2) de-termine which features successfully predict wheth-er a condition is historical, and (3) compareConText to machine learning classifiers that ac-count for this broader set of temporal features.2 Temporality in Clinical TextFor several decades, researchers have been study-ing temporality in clinical records (Zhou andHripcsak, 2007).
Readers use a variety of clues todistinguish temporality from the clinical narrative,and we wanted to identify features from other tem-10poral models that may be useful for determiningwhether a condition is historical or recent.There are a number of automated systems forextracting, representing, and reasoning time in avariety of text.
One system that emerged from theAQUAINT workshops for temporal modeling ofnewspaper articles is TARSQI.
TARSQI processesevents annotated in text by anchoring and orderingthem with respect to nearby temporal expressions(Verhagen and Pustejovsky, 2008).
A few recentapplications, such as TimeText and TN-TIES(Zhou et al, 2008; Irvine et al, 2008), identifymedically relevant events from clinical texts anduse temporal expressions to order the events.
Onemethod attempts to order temporal segments ofclinical narratives (Bramsen et al, 2006).
One keydifference between these previous efforts and ourwork is that these systems identify all temporalexpressions from the text and attempt to order allevents.
In contrast, our goal is to determine wheth-er a clinical condition is historical or recent, so wefocus only on temporal information related to thesigns, symptoms, and diseases described in thetext.
Therefore, we ignore explicit temporal ex-pressions that do not modify clinical conditions.
Ifa condition does not have explicit temporal mod-ifiers, we still attempt to determine the historicalstatus for that condition (e.g., ?Denies cough?).
Inorder to improve the ability to determine whether acondition is historical, we carried out this annota-tion study to identify any useful temporal informa-tion related to the clinical conditions in six clinicalgenres.
Building on work in this area, we exploredtemporal features used in other temporal annota-tion studies.TimeML is a well-known standard for complex,temporal annotation.
TimeML supports the annota-tion of events defined as ?situations that happen oroccur?
and temporal expressions such as dates anddurations in order to answer temporal questionsabout these events and other entities in news text(Saur?
?, et al, 2006).
One notable feature of theTimeML schema is its ability to capture verb tensesuch as past or present and verb aspect such asperfective or progressing.
We annotated verb tenseand aspect in medical text according to the Time-ML standard.Within the medical domain, Zhou et al (2006)developed an annotation schema used to identifytemporal expressions and clinical events.
Theymeasured the prevalence of explicit temporal ex-pressions and key medical events like admission ortransfer found in discharge summaries.
We usedthe Zhou categorization scheme to explore tempor-al expressions and clinical events across genres ofreports.A few NLP systems rely on lexical cues to ad-dress time.
MediClass is a knowledge-based sys-tem that classifies the content of an encounterusing both free-text and encoded information fromelectronic medical records (Hazelhurst et al,2005).
For example, MediClass classifies smokingcessation care delivery events by identifying thestatus of a smoker as continued, former or historyusing words like continues.
ConText, an extensionof the NegEx algorithm, temporally classifies con-ditions as historical, recent, or hypothetical usinglexical cues such as history, new, and if, respec-tively (Chapman et al, 2007).
Drawing from theseapplications, we used state and temporal triggerterms like active, unchanged, and history to cap-ture coarse, temporal information about a condi-tion.Temporal information may also be implied inthe document structure, particularly with regards tothe section in which the condition appears.
SecTagmarks explicit and implicit sections foundthroughout patient H&P notes (Denny et al, 2008).We adopted some section headers from the SecTagterminology to annotate sections found in reports.Our long-term goal is to build a robust temporalclassifier for information found in clinical textwhere the output is classification of whether a con-dition is historical or recent (historical categoriza-tion).
An important first step in classifyingtemporality in clinical text is to identify and cha-racterize temporal features found in clinical re-ports.
Specifically, we aim to determine whichexpressions or features are predictive of historicalcategorization of clinical conditions in dictatedreports.3 Historical Assignment and TemporalFeaturesWe conducted a descriptive, exploratory study oftemporal features found across six genres of clini-cal reports.
We had three goals related to our taskof determining whether a clinical condition washistorical or recent.
First, to develop a temporalclassifier that is generalizable across report types,we compared temporality among different genres11of clinical text.
Second, to determine which fea-tures predict whether a condition is historical orrecent, we observed common rules generated bythree different rule learners based on manually an-notated temporal features we describe in the fol-lowing section.
Finally, we compared theperformance of ConText and automated rule learn-ers and assessed which features may improve theConText algorithm.Next, we describe the temporal features we as-sessed for identification of historical signs, symp-toms, or diseases, including temporal expressions,lexical cues, verb tense and aspect, and sections.
(1) Temporal Expressions: Temporal expres-sions are time operators like dates (May 5th 2005)and durations (for past two days), as well as clini-cal processes related to the encounter (discharge,transfer).
For each clinical condition, we annotatedwhether a temporal expression modified it and, ifso, the category of temporal expression.
We usedsix major categories from Zhou et al (2006) in-cluding: Date and Time, Relative Date and Time,Durations, Key Events, Fuzzy Time, and No Tem-poral Expression.
These categories also havetypes.
For instance, Relative Date and Time has atype Yesterday, Today or Tomorrow.
For the con-dition in the sentence ?The patient had a stroke inMay 2006?, the temporal expression category isDate and Time with type Date.
Statements withouta temporal expression were annotated No Tempor-al Expression with type N/A.
(2) Tense and Aspect: Tense and aspect definehow a verb is situated and related to a particulartime.
We used TimeML Specification 1.2.1 forstandardization of tense and aspect where exam-ples of tense include Past or Present and aspectmay be Perfective, Progressive, Both or None asfound in Saur?
?, et al (2006).
We annotated theverb that scoped a condition and annotated its tenseand aspect.
The primary verb may be a predicateadjective integral to interpretation of the condition(Left ventricle is enlarged), a verb preceding thecondition (has hypertension), or a verb following acondition (Chest pain has resolved).
In ?her chestpain has resolved,?
we would mark ?has resolved?with tense Present and aspect Perfective.
State-ments without verbs (e.g., No murmurs) would beannotated Null for both.
(3) Trigger Terms: We annotated lexical cuesthat provide temporal information about a condi-tion.
For example, in the statement, ?Patient haspast history of diabetes,?
we would annotate ?his-tory?
as Trigger Term: Yes and would note the ex-act trigger term.
(4) Sections: Sections are ?clinically meaning-ful segments which act independently of theunique narrative?
for a patient (Denny et al 2008).Examples of report sections include Review of Sys-tems (Emergency Department), Findings (Opera-tive Gastrointestinal and Radiology) andDischarge Diagnosis (Emergency Department andDischarge Summary).We extended Denny?s section schema with ex-plicit, report-specific section headers not includedin the original terminology.
Similar to Denny, weassigned implied sections in which there was anobvious change of topic and paragraph marker.
Forinstance, if the sentence ?the patient is allergic topenicillin?
followed the Social History section, weannotated the section as Allergies, even if therewas not a section heading for allergies.4 Methods4.1 Dataset GenerationWe randomly selected seven reports from each ofsix genres of clinical reports dictated at the Univer-sity of Pittsburgh Medical Center during 2007These included Discharge Summaries, SurgicalPathology, Radiology, Echocardiograms, Opera-tive Gastrointestinal, and Emergency Departmentreports.
The dataset ultimately contained 42 clini-cal reports and 854 conditions.
Figure 1 show ourannotation process, which was completed inGATE, an open-source framework for buildingNLP systems (http://gate.ac.uk/).
A physicianboard-certified in internal medicine and infectiousdiseases annotated all clinical conditions in the setand annotated each condition as either historical orrecent.
He used a general guideline for annotatinga condition as historical if the condition beganmore than 14 days before the current encounter andas recent if it began or occurred within 14 days orduring the current visit.
However, the physicianwas not bound to this definition and ultimatelyused his own judgment to determine whether acondition was historical.Provided with pre-annotated clinical conditionsand blinded to the historical category, three of theauthors annotated the features iteratively in groupsof six (one of each report type) using guidelines we12developed for the first two types of temporal fea-tures (temporal expressions and trigger terms.
)Between iterations, we resolved disagreementsthrough discussion and updated our guidelines.Cohen?s kappa for temporal expressions and trig-ger terms by the final iteration was at 0.66 and 0.69respectively.
Finally, one author annotated sec-tions, verb tense, and aspect.
Cases in which as-signing the appropriate feature value was unclearwere resolved after consultation with one otherauthor-annotator.4.2 Data AnalysisWe represented each condition as a vector withtemporal features and their manually-assigned val-ues as input features for predicting the binary out-come value of historical or recent.
We trained threerule learning algorithms to classify each conditionas historical or recent: J48 Decision Tree, Ripper,and Rule Learner (RL) (Witten and Frank, 2005;Clearwater and Provost, 1990).
Rule learners per-form well at classification tasks and provide expli-cit rules that can be viewed, understood, andpotentially implemented in existing rule-based ap-plications.
We used Weka 3.5.8, an openly-available machine learning application for predic-tion modeling, to implement the Decision Tree(J48) and Ripper (JRip) algorithms, and we appliedan in house version of RL retrieved fromwww.dbmi.pitt.edu\probe.
For all rule learners, weused the default settings and ran ten-fold cross-validation.
The J48 algorithm produces mutuallyexclusive rules for predicting the outcome value.Thus, two rules cannot cover or apply to any onecase.
In contrast, both JRip and RL generate non-mutually-exclusive rules for predicting the out-come value.
Although J48 and JRip are sensitive tobias in outcome values, RL accounts for skeweddistribution of the data.We also applied ConText to the test cases toclassify them as historical or recent.
ConText looksfor trigger terms and a limited set of temporal ex-pressions within a sentence.
Clinical conditionswithin the scope of the trigger terms are assignedthe value indicated by the trigger terms (e.g., his-torical for the term history).
Scope extends fromthe trigger term to the end of the sentence or untilthe presence of a termination term, such as pre-senting.
For instance, in the sentence ?History ofCHF, presenting with chest pain,?
CHF would beannotated as historical.5 EvaluationTo characterize the different reports types, we es-tablished the overall prevalence and proportion ofconditions annotated as historical for each clinicalreport genre.
We assessed the prevalence of eachfeature (temporal expressions, trigger terms, tenseand aspect, and sections) by report genre to deter-mine the level of similarity or difference betweengenres.
To determine which features values arepredictive of whether a condition is historical orrecent, we observed common rules found by morethan one rule learning algorithm.
Amongst com-mon rules, we identified new rules that could im-prove the ConText algorithm.We also measured predictive performance with95% confidence intervals of the rule learners andConText by calculating overall accuracy, as well asrecall and precision for historical classificationsand recall and precision for recent classifications.Table 1 describes equations for the evaluation me-trics.Table 1.
Description of evaluation metrics.
RLP = rulelearner prediction.
RS = Reference StandardFigure 1.
Annotation process for dataset and objectivesfor evaluation.13Recall:                 number of TP(number of TP + number of FN)Precision:           number of TP(number of TP + number of FP)Accuracy:   number of instances correctly classifiedtotal number of possible instances6 ResultsOverall, we found 854 conditions of interest acrossall six report genre.
Table 2 illustrates the preva-lence of conditions across report genres.
Emergen-cy Department reports contained the highestconcentration of conditions.
Across report genres,87% of conditions were recent (741 conditions).All conditions were recent in Echocardiograms, incontrast to Surgical Pathology reports in which68% were recent.Table 2.
Prevalence and count of conditions by temporalcategory and report genre.
DS = Discharge Summary,Echo = Echocardiogram, ED = Emergency Department,GI = Operative Gastrointestinal, RAD = Radiology andSP = Surgical Pathology.
(%) = percent; Ct = count.6.1 Prevalence of Temporal FeaturesTable 3 shows that most conditions were not mod-ified by a temporal expression or a trigger term.Conditions were modified by a temporal expres-sion in Discharge Summaries more often than inother report genres.
Similarly, Surgical Pathologyhad the highest prevalence of conditions modifiedby a trigger term.
Operative Gastrointestinal andRadiology reports showed the lowest prevalence ofboth temporal expressions and trigger terms.
Nei-ther temporal expressions nor trigger terms oc-curred in Echocardiograms.
Overall, theprevalence of conditions scoped by a verb variedacross report types ranging from 46% (SurgicalPathology) to 81% (Echocardiogram).Table 3.
Prevalence of conditions modified by temporalfeatures.
All conditions were assigned a section and arethereby excluded.
TE = temporal expression; TT = trig-ger term; V = scoped by verb.6.2 Common RulesRule learners generated a variety of rules.
The J48Decision Tree algorithm learned 27 rules, six forpredicting conditions as historical and the remain-ing for classifying the condition as recent.
Therules predominantly incorporated the trigger termand verb tense and aspect feature values.
JRiplearned nine rules, eight for classifying the histori-cal temporal category and one ?otherwise?
rule forthe majority class.
The JRip rules most heavilyincorporated the section feature.
The RL algorithmfound 79 rules, 18 of which predict the historicalcategory.
Figure 2 illustrates historical ruleslearned by each rule learner.
JRip and RL pre-dicted the following sections alone can be used topredict a condition as historical: Past Medical His-tory, Allergies and Social History.
Both J48 andRL learned that trigger terms like previous, knownand history predict historical.
There was only onecommon, simple rule for the historical categoryfound amongst all three learners: the trigger termno change predicts the historical category.
All al-gorithms learned a number of rules that includetwo features values; however, none of the com-pound rules were common amongst all three algo-rithms.Figure 2.
Historical rules learned by each rule learneralgorithm.
Black dots represent simple rules whereastriangles represent compound rules.
Common rulesshared by each algorithm occur in the overlapping areasof each circle.146.3 Predictive PerformanceTable 4 shows predictive performance for eachrule learner and for ConText.
The RL algorithmoutperformed all other algorithms in almost allevaluation measures.
The RL scores were com-puted based on classifying the 42 cases (eight his-torical) for which the algorithm did not make aprediction as recent.
ConText and J48, which ex-clusively relied on trigger terms, had lower recallfor the historical category.All of the rule learners out-performed ConText.JRip and RL showed substantially higher recall forassigning the historical category, which is the mostimportant measure in a comparison with ConText,because ConText assigns the default value of re-cent unless there is textual evidence to indicate ahistorical classification.
Although the majorityclass baseline shows high accuracy due to highprevalence of the recent category, all other classifi-ers show even higher accuracy, achieving fairlyhigh recall and precision for the historical caseswhile maintaining high performance on the recentcategory.Table 4.
Performance results with 95% confidence in-tervals for three rule learners trained on manually anno-tated features and ConText, which uses automaticallygenerated features.
Bolded values do not have overlap-ping confidence intervals with ConText.
MCB = Ma-jority Class Baseline (recent class)7 DiscussionOur study provides a descriptive investigation oftemporal features found in clinical text.
Our firstobjective was to characterize the temporal similari-ties and differences amongst report types.
Wefound that the majority of conditions in all reportgenres were recent conditions, indicating that amajority class classifier would produce an accura-cy of about 87% over our data set.
According tothe distributions of temporal category by reportgenre (Table 2), Echocardiograms exclusively de-scribe recent conditions.
Operative Gastrointestinaland Radiology reports contain similar proportionsof historical conditions (9% and 6%).
Echocardio-grams appear to be most similar to Radiology re-ports and Operative Gastrointestinal reports, whichmay be supported by the fact that these reports areused to document findings from tests conductedduring the current visit.
Emergency Departmentreports and Discharge Summaries contain similarproportions of historical conditions (17% and 19%respectively), which might be explained by the factthat both reports describe a patient?s temporal pro-gression throughout the stay in the Emergency De-partment or the hospital.Surgical Pathology reports may be the mosttemporally distinct report in our study, showing thehighest proportion of historical conditions.
Thismay seem counter-intuitive given that SurgicalPathology reports also facilitate the reporting offindings described from a recent physical speci-men.
However, we had a small sample size (28conditions in seven reports), and most of the his-torical conditions were described in a single ad-dendum report.
Removing this report decreased theprevalence of historical conditions to 23% (3/13).Discharge Summaries and Emergency Depart-ment reports displayed more variety in the ob-served types of temporal expressions (9 to 14subtypes) and trigger terms (10 to 12 terms) thanother report genres.
This is not surprising consider-ing the range of events described in these reports.Other reports tend to have between zero and threesubtypes of temporal expressions and zero andseven different trigger terms.
In all report types,temporal expressions were mainly subtype past,and the most frequent trigger term was history.Our second objective was to identify which fea-tures predict whether a condition is historical orrecent.
Due to high prevalence of the recent cate-gory, we were especially interested in discoveringtemporal features that predict whether a conditionis historical.
With one exception (date greater thanfour weeks prior to the current visit), temporal ex-pression features always occurred in compoundrules in which the temporal expression value had toco-occur with another feature value.
For instance,any temporal expression in the category key eventhad to also occur in the secondary diagnosis sec-tion to classify the condition as historical.
For ex-15ample, in ?SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: Statuspost Coronary artery bypass graft with complica-tion of mediastinitis?
the key event is the coronaryartery bypass graft, the section is secondary diag-nosis, and the correct classification is historical.Similarly, verb tense and aspect were only use-ful in conjunction with other feature values.
Onerule predicted a condition as historical if the condi-tion was modified by the trigger term history andfell within the scope of a present tense verb withno aspect.
An example of this is ?The patient is a50 year old male with history of hypertension.
?Intuitively, one would think that a past tense verbwould always predict historical; however, wefound the presence of a past tense verb with noaspect was a feature only when the condition wasin the Patient History section.
Sometimes the ab-sence of a verb in conjunction with another featurevalue predicted a condition as historical.
For ex-ample, in the sentences ?PAST MEDICALHISTORY: History of COPD.
Also diabetes?
?also functioned as a trigger term that extended thescope of a previous trigger term, history, in theantecedent sentence.A few historical trigger terms were discoveredas simple rules by the rule learners: no change,previous, known, status post, and history.
A fewrules incorporated both a trigger term and a partic-ular section header value.
One rule predicted his-torical if the trigger term was status post and thecondition occurred in the History of Present Illnesssection.
This rule would classify the conditionCABG as historical in ?HISTORY OF PRESENTILLNESS: The patient is...status post CABG.
?One important detail to note is that a number of thetemporal expressions categorized as Fuzzy Timealso act as trigger terms, such as history and statuspost?both of which were learned by J48.
A histor-ical trigger term did not always predict the catego-ry historical.
In the sentence ?No focal sensory ormotor deficits on history,?
history may suggest thatthe condition was not previously documented, butwas interpreted as not presently identified duringthe current physical exam.Finally, sections appeared in the majority ofJRip and RL historical rules: 4/8 simple rules and13/18 compound rules.
A few sections were con-sistently classified as historical: Past Medical His-tory, Allergies, and Social History.
One importantpoint to address is that these sections were manual-ly annotated.Our results revealed a few unexpected observa-tions.
We found at least two trigger terms indicatedin the J48 rules, also and status post, which did nothave the same predictive ability across report ge-nres.
For instance, in the statement ?TRANSFERDIAGNOSIS: status post coiling for left posteriorinternal carotid artery aneurysm,?
status post indi-cates the reason for the transfer as an inpatientfrom the Emergency Department and the conditionis recent.
In contrast, status post in a Surgical Pa-thology report was interpreted to mean historical(e.g., PATIENT HISTORY: Status post doublelung transplant for COPD.)
In these instances,document knowledge of the meaning of the sectionmay be useful to resolve these cases.One other unexpected finding was that the trig-ger term chronic was predictive of recent ratherthan historical.
This may seem counterintuitive;however, in the statement ?We are treating this aschronic musculoskeletal pain with oxycodone?, thecondition is being referenced in the context of thereason for the current visit.
Contextual informationsurrounding the condition, in this case treating oradministering medication for the condition, mayhelp discriminate several of these cases.Our third objective was to assess ConText in re-lation to the rules learned from manually annotatedtemporal features.
J48 and ConText emphasizedthe use of trigger terms as predictors of whether acondition was historical or recent and performedwith roughly the same overall accuracy.
JRip andRL learned rules that incorporated other featurevalues including sections and temporal expres-sions, resulting in a 12% increase in historical re-call over ConText and a 31% increase in historicalrecall over J48.Many of the rules we learned can be easily ex-tracted and incorporated into ConText (e.g., triggerterms previous and no change).
The ConText algo-rithm largely relies on the use of trigger terms likehistory and one section header, Past Medical His-tory.
By incorporating additional section headersthat may strongly predict historical, ConText couldpotentially predict a condition as historical when atrigger term is absent and the header title is theonly predictor as in the case of ?ALLERGIES:peanut allergy?.
Although these sections headermay only be applied to Emergency Departmentand Discharge Summaries, trigger terms and tem-poral expressions may be generalizable across ge-nre of reports.
Some rules do not lend themselves16to ConText?s trigger-term-based approach, particu-larly those that require sophisticated representationand reasoning.
For example, ConText only reasonssome simple durations like several day history.ConText cannot compute dates from the currentvisit to reason that a condition occurred in the past(e.g., stroke in March 2000).
The algorithm per-formance would gain from such a function; how-ever, such a task would greatly add to itscomplexity.8 LimitationsThe small sample size of reports and few condi-tions found in three report genres (Operative Ga-strointestinal, Radiology, and Surgical Pathology)is a limitation in this study.
Also, annotation ofconditions, temporal category, sections, verb tenseand aspect were conducted by a single author,which may have introduced bias to the study.
Moststudies on temporality in text focus on the temporalfeatures themselves.
For instance, the prevalenceof temporal expressions reported by Zhou et al(2006) include all temporal expressions foundthroughout a discharge summary, whereas we an-notated only those expressions that modified thecondition.
This difference makes comparing ourresults to other published literature challenging.9 Future WorkAlthough our results are preliminary, we be-lieve our study has provided a few new insightsthat may help improve the state of the art for his-torical categorization of a condition.
The next stepto building on this work includes automaticallyextracting the predictive features identified by therule learners.
Some features may be easier to ex-tract than others.
Since sections appear to be strongindicators for historical categorization we may startby implementing the SecTag tagger.
Often a sec-tion header does not exist between text describingthe past medical history and a description of thecurrent problem, so relying merely on the sectionheading is not sufficient.
The SecTag tagger identi-fies both implicit and explicit sections and mayprove useful for this task.
To our knowledge, Sec-Tag was only tested on Emergency Departmentreports, so adapting it to other report genres will benecessary.
Both JRip and RL produced high per-formance, suggesting a broader set of features mayimprove historical classification; however, becausethese features do not result in perfect performance,there are surely other features necessary for im-proving historical classification.
For instance, hu-mans use medical knowledge about conditions thatare inherently chronic or usually experienced overthe course of a patient?s life (i.e., HIV, social ha-bits like smoking, allergies etc).
Moreover, physi-cians are able to integrate knowledge about chronicconditions with understanding of the patient?s rea-son for visit to determine whether a chronic condi-tion is also a recent problem.
An application thatimitated experts would need to integrate this typeof information.
We also need to explore addingfeatures captured at the discourse level, such asnominal and temporal coreference.
We have begunwork in these areas and are optimistic that theywill improve historical categorization.10 ConclusionAlthough most conditions in six clinical report ge-nres are recent problems, identifying those that arehistorical is important in understanding a patient?sclinical state.
A simple algorithm that relies on lex-ical cues and simple temporal expressions canclassify the majority of historical conditions, butour results indicate that the ability to reason withtemporal expressions, to recognize tense and as-pect, and to place conditions in the context of theirreport sections will improve historical classifica-tion.
We will continue to explore other features topredict historical categorization.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded by NLM grant 1R01LM009427-01, ?NLP Foundational Studiesand Ontologies for Syndromic Surveillance fromED Reports?.ReferencesPhilip Bramsen, Pawan Deshpande, Yoong Keok Lee,and Regina Barzilay.
2006.
Finding Temporal Orderin Discharge Summaries.
AMIA Annu Symp Proc.2006; 81?85Wendy W Chapman, David Chu, and John N. Dowling.2007.
ConText: An Algorithm for Identifying Contex-tual Features from Clinical Text.
Association forComputational Linguistics, Prague, Czech Republic17Scott H. Clearwater and Foster J. Provost.
1990.
RL4: ATool for Knowledge-Based Induction.
Tools for Ar-tificial Intelligence, 1990.
Proc of the 2nd InternIEEE Conf: 24-30.Joshua C. Denny, Randolph A. Miller, Kevin B. John-son, and Anderson Spickard III.
2008.
Developmentand Evaluation of a Clinical Note Section HeaderTerminology.
SNOMED.
AMIA 2008 Symp.
Pro-ceedings: 156-160.Brian Hazlehurst, H. Robert Frost, Dean F. Sittig, andVictor J. Stevens.
2005.
MediClass: A system for de-tecting and classifying encounter-based clinicalevents in any electronic medical record.
J Am MedInform Assoc 12(5): 517-29Ann K. Irvine, Stephanie W. Haas, and Tessa Sullivan.2008.
TN-TIES: A System for Extracting TemporalInformation from Emergency Department TriageNotes.
AMIA 2008 Symp Proc: 328-332.Roser Saur?
?, Jessica Littman, Bob Knippen, RobertGaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, and James Pustejovsky.2006.
TimeML Annotation Guidelines Version 1.2.1.at:http://www.timeml.org/site/publications/timeMLdocs/annguide_1.2.1.pdfMarc Verhagen and James Pustejovsky.
2008.
TemporalProcessing with TARSQI Toolkit.
Coling 2008: Com-panion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, Man-chester, 189?192Ian H. Witten and Eibe Frank.
2005.
Data Mining:Practical machine learning tools and techniques, 2ndEdition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2005.Li Zhou, Genevieve B. Melton, Simon Parsons andGeorge Hripcsak.
2006.
A temporal constraint struc-ture for extracting temporal information from clini-cal narrative.
J Biomed Inform 39(4): 424-439.Li Zhou and George Hripcsak.
2007.
Temporal reason-ing with medical data--a review with emphasis onmedical natural language processing.
J Biomed In-form Apr; 40(2):183-202.Li Zhou, Simon Parson, and George Hripcsak.
2008.The Evaluation of a Temporal Reasoning System inProcessing Discharge Summaries.
J Am Med InformAssoc 15(1): 99?106.18
