Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technology and Resources for Cultural Heritage,Social Sciences, Humanities, and Education ?LaTeCH ?
SHELT&R 2009, pages 51?59,Athens, Greece, 30 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsApplying NLP Technologies to the Collection and Enrichmentof Language Data on the Web to Aid Linguistic ResearchFei XiaUniversity of WashingtonSeattle, WA 98195, USAfxia@u.washington.eduWilliam D. LewisMicrosoft ResearchRedmond, WA 98052, USAwilewis@microsoft.comAbstractThe field of linguistics has always beenreliant on language data, since that is itsprincipal object of study.
One of the majorobstacles that linguists encounter is find-ing data relevant to their research.
In thispaper, we propose a three-stage approachto help linguists find relevant data.
First,language data embedded in existing lin-guistic scholarly discourse is collected andstored in a database.
Second, the lan-guage data is automatically analyzed andenriched, and language profiles are createdfrom the enriched data.
Third, a searchfacility is provided to allow linguists tosearch the original data, the enriched data,and the language profiles in a variety ofways.
This work demonstrates the benefitsof using natural language processing tech-nology to create resources and tools forlinguistic research, allowing linguists tohave easy access not only to language dataembedded in existing linguistic papers, butalso to automatically generated languageprofiles for hundreds of languages.1 IntroductionLinguistics is the scientific study of language, andthe object of study is language, in particular lan-guage data.
One of the major obstacles that lin-guists encounter is finding data relevant to theirresearch.
While the strategy of word of mouthor consulting resources in a library may work forsmall amounts of data, it does not scale well.
Val-idating or reputing key components of a linguistictheory realistically requires analyzing data acrossa large sample of languages.
For instance, in lin-guistic typology a well-known implicational uni-versal states that if the demonstrative follows thenoun, then the relative clause also follows the noun(Croft, 2003).
Although this particular universalis well-researched and widely accepted, identify-ing this tendency anew?as an example of whatone must do when researching a new universal?would require a significant amount of work: in or-der to be relatively sure that the universal holds,the linguist would need to identify a substantialnumber of true positives (those that support theuniversal), and ensure that there are not a sufficientnumber of negatives that would act as a refutation.The only way a linguist could be completely surewould be to conduct a thorough literature reviewon the subject or go through data from a repre-sentative and significant sample of data from theapproximately seven thousand languages that areor have been spoken (and for which data exists).There have been much effort by the linguisticcommunity to address the issue.
For instance,LinguistList compiles a long list of linguistic re-sources1, making it easier to find electronicallyavailable resources.
Likewise, the Open LanguageArchives Community (OLAC) acts as an onlinevirtual library of language resources, and providesa search tool that searches several dozen onlinelinguistic resources.
Further, the World Atlas ofLanguage Structures (WALS), which was recentlymade available online, is a large database of struc-tural (phonological, grammatical, lexical) proper-ties of languages gathered from descriptive mate-rials (Haspelmath et al, 2005).21http://www.linguistlist.org/langres/index.html2There are other online resources for searching for lin-guistic data, in particular typological data.
Two of note in-clude Autotyp (Bickel and Nichols, 2002) and the Typologi-cal Database System (Dimitriadis et al, forthcoming), amongothers.
The former has limited online availability (much of51We propose a three-stage approach to help lin-guists in locating relevant data.
First, languagedata embedded in existing linguistic scholarly dis-course is collected and stored in a database.
Sec-ond, the language data is automatically analyzedand enriched and language profiles are createdfrom the enriched data.
Third, a search facility isprovided to allow linguists to search the originaldata, the enriched data, and the language profiles.This is an on-going research project.
While thefirst stage is completed, the second and third stagesare partially completed and still undergoing devel-opment.
In this paper, we will describe each stageand report results.2 Related workIn this section, we briefly discuss a few projectsthat are most relevant to our work.2.1 EthnologueThe purpose of the Ethnologue is to provide acomprehensive listing of the known living lan-guages of the world.
The most recent version, ver-sion 15, covers more than six thousand languages.Information in the Ethnologue comes from numer-ous sources and is confirmed by consulting bothreliable published sources and a network of fieldcorrespondents, and has been built to be consistentwith ISO standard 639-3; the information is com-piled under several specific categories (e.g., coun-tries where a language is spoken and their popula-tions) and no effort is made to gather data beyondthose categories (Gordon, 2005).2.2 WALSThe World Atlas of Language Structures (WALS)is a large database of structural (phonologi-cal, grammatical, lexical) properties of languagesgathered from descriptive materials (such as refer-ence grammars) by a team of more than 40 lin-guists (Haspelmath et al, 2005).
WALS con-sists of 141 maps with accompanying text ondiverse features (such as vowel inventory size,noun-genitive order, passive constructions, andhand/arm polysemy).
Each map corresponds toa feature and the map shows the feature valuesfor between 120 and 1370 languages.
Altogetherthere are 2,650 languages and more than 58,000the data is not directly accessible through query, but requiressubmitting requests to the site owners), however, and the lat-ter is still under development.data points; each data point is a (language, fea-ture, feature value) tuple that specifies the value ofthe feature in a particular language.
For instance,(English, canonical word order, SVO) means thatthe canonical word order of English is SVO.2.3 OLACThe Open Languages Archive Community(OLAC), described in (Bird and Simons, 2003),is part of the Open Archives Initiative, whichpromotes interoperability standards for linguisticdata.3 The focus of OLAC has been to facilitatethe discovery of linguistic resources through acommon metadata structure for describing digitaldata and by providing a common means for locat-ing these data through search interfaces housed atLinguist List and the Linguistics Data Consortium(LDC).
Our work shares with OLAC the needfor resource discovery, and moves beyond OLACby enriching and manipulating the content oflinguistic resources.3 Building ODINThe first stage of the three-stage approach is to col-lect linguistic data and store it in a database.
In lin-guistics, the practice of presenting language datain interlinear form has a long history, going backat least to the time of the structuralists.
InterlinearGlossed Text, or IGT, is often used to present dataand analysis on a language that the reader maynot know much about, and is frequently includedin scholarly linguistic documents.
The canonicalform of an IGT consists of three lines: a lan-guage line for the language in question, a glossline that contains a word-by-word or morpheme-by-morpheme gloss, and a translation line, usuallyin English.
The grammatical markers such as 3sgon the gloss line are called grams.
Table 1 showsthe beginning of a linguistic document (Baker andStewart, 1996) which contains two IGTs: one inlines 30-32, and the other in lines 34-36.
The linenumbers are added for the sake of convenience.ODIN, the Online Database of INterlinear text,is a resource built from data harvested from schol-arly documents (Lewis, 2006).
ODIN was built inthree main steps:(1) Crawling: crawling the Web to retrieve docu-ments that may contain IGTs3http://www.language-archives.org/521: THE ADJ/VERB DISTINCTION: EDO EVIDENCE2:3: Mark C. Baker and Osamuyimen Thompson Stewart4: McGill University....27: The following shows a similar minimal pair from Edo,28: a Kwa language spoken in Nigeria (Agheyisi 1990).29:30: (2) a. E`me`ri?
mo`se?.31: Mary be.beautiful(V)32: ?Mary is beautiful.
?33:34: b. E`me`ri?
*(ye?)
mo`se?.35: Mary be.beautiful(A)36: ?Mary is beautiful (A).
?...Table 1: A linguistic document that contains IGT:words in boldface are language names(2) IGT detection: extracting IGTs from the re-trieved documents(3) Language ID: identifying the language codeof the extracted IGTs.The identified IGTs are then extracted andstored in a database (the ODIN database), whichcan be easily searched with a GUI interface.4 Inthis section, we briefly describe the procedure, andmore detail about the procedure can be found in(Xia and Lewis, 2008) and (Xia et al, 2009).3.1 CrawlingIn the first step, linguistic documents that maycontain instances of IGT are harvested from theWeb using metacrawls.
Metacrawling involvesthrowing queries against an existing search en-gine, such as Google and Live Search, and crawl-ing only the pages returned by those queries.
Wefound that the most successful queries were thosethat used strings contained within IGT itself (e.g.grams such as 3sg).
In addition, we found pre-cision increased when we included two or moresearch terms per query, with the most successfulqueries being those which combined grams andlanguage names.Other queries we have developed include:queries by language names and language codes(drawn from the Ethnologue database (Gordon,2005), which contains about 40,000 languagenames and their variants), by linguists names andthe languages they work on (drawn from the Lin-guist Lists linguist database), by linguistically rel-4http://odin.linguistlist.orgevant terms (drawn from the SIL linguistic glos-sary), and by particular words or morphemesfound in IGT and their grammatical markup.3.2 IGT detectionThe canonical form of IGT consists of three partsand each part is on a single line.
However, manyIGT instances, 53.6% of instances in ODIN, do notfollow the canonical form for various reasons.
Forinstance, some IGTs are missing gloss or trans-lation lines as they can be recovered from con-text (e.g., other neighboring examples or the textsurrounding the instance); some IGTs have multi-ple translations or language lines (e.g., one part inthe native script, and another in a latin translitera-tion); still others contain additional lines of anno-tation and analysis, such as phonological alterna-tions, underlying forms, etc.We treat IGT detection as a sequence labelingproblem.
First, we train a learner and use it to labeleach line in a document with a tag in a pre-definedtagset.
The tagset is an extension of the standardBIO tagging scheme and it has five tags: they areBL (any blank line), O (outside IGT that is not aBL), B (the first line in an IGT), E (the last line inan IGT), and I (inside an IGT that is not a B, E, orBL).
After the lines in a document are tagged bythe learner, we identify IGT instances by findingall the spans in the document that match the ?B [I| BL]* E?
pattern; that is, the span starts with a Bline, ends with an E line, and has zero or more I orBL lines in between.To test the system, we manually annotated 51documents to mark the positions of the IGTs.
Wetrained the system on 41 documents (with 1573IGT instances) and tested it on 10 documents (with447 instances).
The F-score for exact match (i.e.,two spans match iff they are identical) was 88.4%,and for partial match (i.e., two spans match iff theyoverlap), was 95.4%.
The detail of the system canbe found in (Xia and Lewis, 2008).3.3 Language IDThe language ID task here is very different from atypical language ID task.
For instance, the num-ber of languages in ODIN is more than a thou-sand and could potentially reach several thousandas more data is added.
Furthermore, for most lan-guages in ODIN, our training data contains fewto no instances of IGT.
Because of these proper-ties, applying existing language ID algorithms tothe task does not produce satisfactory results.
For53instance, Cavnar and Trenkle?s N-gram-based al-gorithm produced an accuracy of as high as 99.8%when tested on newsgroup articles in eight lan-guages (Cavnar and Trenkle, 1994).
However,when we ran the same algorithm on the IGT data,the accuracy fell as low as 2% when the trainingset was very small.Since IGTs are part of a document, there are of-ten various cues in the document (e.g., languagenames) that can help predict the language ID ofthese instances.
We treat the language ID task asa coreference resolution (CoRef) problem: a men-tion is an IGT or a language name appearing in adocument, an entity is a language code, and find-ing the language code for an IGT is the same aslinking a mention (e.g., an IGT) to an entity (i.e.,a language code).5 Once the language ID task isframed as a CoRef problem, all the existing algo-rithms on CoRef can be applied to the task.We built two systems: one uses a maximum en-tropy classifier with beam search, which for each(IGT, language code) pair determines whether theIGT should be linked to the language code; theother treats the task as a joint inference task andperforms the inference by using Markov LogicNetwork (Richardson and Domingos, 2006).
Bothsystems outperform existing, general-purpose lan-guage identification algorithms significantly.
Thedetail of the algorithm and experimental results isdescribed in (Xia et al, 2009).3.4 The current ODIN databaseWe ran the IGT detection and language ID systemson three thousand IGT-bearing documents crawledfrom the Web and the extracted IGTs were storedin the ODIN database.
Table 2 shows the languagedistribution of the IGT instances in the databaseaccording to the output of the language ID sys-tem.
For instance, the third row says that 122languages each have 100 to 999 IGT instances,and the 40,260 instances in this bin account for21.27% of all instances in the ODIN database.6In addition to the IGTs that are already in the5A language code is a 3-letter code that uniquely identi-fies a language.
In contrast, the mapping between languagename and a language is not always one-to-one: some lan-guages have multiple names, and some language names mapto multiple languages.6Some IGTs are marked by the authors as ungrammatical(usually with an asterisk ?*?
at the beginning of the languageline).
These IGTs are kept in ODIN because they may containinformation useful to linguists (for the same reason that theywere included in the original linguistic documents).Table 2: Language distribution of the IGTs inODINRange of # of # of IGT % of IGTIGT instances languages instances instances> 10000 3 36,691 19.391000-9999 37 97,158 51.34100-999 122 40,260 21.2710-99 326 12,822 6.781-9 838 2,313 1.22total 1326 189,244 100ODIN database, there are more than 130,000 ad-ditional IGT-bearing documents that have beencrawled but have not been fully processed.
Oncethese additional documents have been processed,the database is expected to expand significantly,growing to a million or more IGT instances.4 Analyzing IGT data and creatinglanguage profilesThe second stage of the three-stage approach isto analyze and enrich IGT data automatically, toextract information from the enriched data, andto create so-called language profiles for the manylanguages in the database.
A language profile de-scribes the main attributes of a language, suchas its word order, case markers, tense/aspect,number/person, major syntactic phenomena (e.g.,scrambling, clitic climbing), etc.7An example profile is shown below.
The pro-file says that in Yoruba the canonical word or-der is SVO, determiners appear after nouns, andthe language has Accusative case, Genitive case,Nominative case, and so on.
The concepts such asAccusativeCase come from the GOLD Ontology(Farrar, 2003; Farrar and Langendoen, 2003).<Profile><language code="WBP">Yoruba</language><ontologyNamespace prefix="gold">http://linguistic-ontology.org/gold.owl#</ontologyNamespace><feature="word_order"><value>SVO</value></feature><feature="det_order"><value>NN-DT</value></feature><feature="case"><value>gold:AccusativeCase</value><value>gold:GenitiveCase</value><value>gold:NominativeCase</value>.
.
.</Profile>Given a set of IGT examples for a language, theprocedure for building a profile for the languagehas several steps:(1) Identifying and separating out various fields7A thorough discussion on the definition and content oflanguage profiles is beyond the scope of the paper.
The readeris referred to (Farrar and Lewis, 2006) for more discussion onthe topic.54(language data, gloss, translation, citation,construction name, etc.)
in an IGT.
(2) Enriching IGT by processing the translationline and projecting the information onto thelanguage line.
(3) Identifying grams in the gloss line and map-ping them to the concepts defined in GOLDOntology or the like.
(4) Answering questions in the language profile.In this section, we explain each step and reportsome preliminary results.4.1 Identifying fields in IGTIn addition to the language data (L), gloss (G), andtranslation (T) parts of IGT, an IGT often containsother information such as language name (-LN),citation (-AC), construction names (-CN), and soon.
An example is in (1), in which the first linecontains the language name and citation,8 the thirdline includes coindexes i and i/j, and the last twolines show two possible translations of the sen-tence.
Here, the language line is displayed as twolines due to errors made by the off-the-shelf con-verter that converted the crawled pdf documentsinto text.
(1) Haitian CF (Lefebvre 1998:165)akJani pale lii/jJohn speak with he(a) ?John speaks with him?
(b) ?Johnspeaks with himself?The goal of this step is to separate out differ-ent fields in an IGT, fix display errors caused bythe pdf-to-text converter, and store the results in auniform data structure such as the one in Ex (2)for the example in Ex (1).
The task is not trivialpartially because the IGT detector marks only thespan of an instance.
For instance, the coindex i inJani and lii/j on the third line of Ex (1) could easilybe mistaken as being part of the word.
(2) Language: Haitian CFCitation: (Lefebvre 1998:165)L: Jan pale ak liCoindx: (Jan, i), (li, i/j)G: John speak with heT1: ?John speaks with him?T2: ?John speaks with himself?There has been much work on extractingdatabase records from text or semi-structuredsources, and the common approach is breakingthe text into multiple segments and labeling eachsegment with a field name (e.g., (Wellner et al,2004; Grenager et al, 2005; Poon and Domingos,8CF here stands for French-lexified creole.2007)).
Our task here is slightly different fromtheir tasks (e.g., extracting author/title/journalfrom citations) in that the fields in IGT could over-lap9 and corrupted lines need to be re-constructedand re-stored in a particular way (e.g., pasting thesecond and third lines in Ex (1) back together).Due to the differences, we did not create anno-tated data by segmenting IGT into separate fieldsand labeling each field.
Instead, we used a refinedtagset to indicate what information is available ateach line of IGT instances.
The tagset includessix main tags (L, G, T, etc.)
and nine secondarytags (e.g., -CR for corruption and -SY for syntac-tic information).
Each line in each IGT instance islabeled with one main tag and zero or more sec-ondary tags.
The labeled lines in Ex (1) are shownin (3).
(3) M-LN-AC: Haitian CF (Lefebvre 1998:165)L-CR: akL-SY-CR: Jani pale lii/jG: John speak with heT-DB: (a) ?John speaks with him?
(b) ?JohnC: speaks with himself?The labeling of the data is done semi-automatically.
We have created a tool that takesthe IGT spans produced by the current IGT detec-tor and labels IGT lines by using various cues inan IGT instance, and designed a GUI that allowsannotators to correct the system output easily.
Theannotation speed is about 320 IGT instances perhour on average.
We are currently experimentingwith different ways of re-training the IGT detectorwith the new data.We have built a rule-based module that identi-fies fields in IGT using the enriched tagset (i.e.,creating Ex (2) from Ex (3)), relying on the knowl-edge about the conventions that linguists tendto follow when specifying citations, constructionnames, coindexation and the like.
The initial re-sult of field extraction looks promising.
We arealso studying whether existing unsupervised sta-tistical systems for information extraction (e.g.,(Poon and Domingos, 2007)) could be extendedto handle this task while taking advantage of theenriched tagset for IGTs.
We plan to complete thestudy and report the results in the near future.4.2 Enriching IGTSince the language line in IGT data typically doesnot come with annotations (e.g., POS tags, phrase9For instance, in some IGTs, a syntactic structure is addedon top of the language line; for instance, the language line inEx (1) could become something like [IP Jani [VP pale [PPak lii/j]]]55structures), we developed a method to enrich IGTdata and then extract syntactic information (e.g.,context-free rules) to bootstrap NLP tools suchas POS taggers and parsers.
The enrichment al-gorithm first parses the English translation withan English parser, then aligns the language lineand the English translation via the gloss line, andfinally projects syntactic information (e.g., POStags and phrase structures) from English to the lan-guage line.
For instance, given the IGT example inEx (4), the enrichment algorithm would producethe word alignment in Figure 1 and the phrasestructures in Figure 2.
The algorithm was testedon 538 IGTs from seven languages and the wordalignment accuracy was 94.1% and projection ac-curacy (i.e., the percentage of correct links in theprojected dependency structures) was 81.5%.
De-tails of the algorithm and the experiments are dis-cussed in (Xia and Lewis, 2007).
(4) Rhoddodd yr athro lyfr i?r bachgen ddoegave-3sg the teacher book to-the boy yesterday?
?The teacher gave a book to the boy yesterday??
(Bailyn, 2001)The   t eache r   gave   a   book   t o     t he     boy    yes te rdayRhoddodd   y r    a th ro      l y f r      i ?
r      bachgen   ddoeG loss  l i ne :T r a n s l a t i o n :T a r g e t  l i n e :g a v e - 3 s g   t h e   t e a c h e r  b o o k   t o - t h e   b o y    y e s t e r d a yFigure 1: Aligning the language line and the En-glish translation with the help of the gloss lineSN P 1 V PN Nt e a c h e rV B Dg a v eN P 2D TaN P 4P PN Nt h eI N N P 3y e s t e r d a yN ND Tb o o kN Nb o yD Tt oSN PN NV B DN P N PP PN NI N + D TN NN ND Tr h o d d o d d( g a v e )   y r( t he )a th ro( t e a c h e r )ly f r( b o o k )i ?r( t o - t he )b a c h o g e n(boy )   d d o e( y e s t e r d a y )T h eFigure 2: Projecting phrase structure from thetranslation line to the language line4.3 Identifying and mapping gramsThe third step of Stage 2 identifies grams on thegloss line of an IGT and mapping them to somecommon semantic so that they can reliably besearched.
The gloss line of IGT has two types ofglosses: those representing grammatical informa-tion (grams) such as NOM, 3sg, PERF, and stan-dard glosses such as book or give.
Early work inODIN involved significant manual effort to mapgrams to GOLD concepts.1010See (Lewis, 2006) for more background on mappinggrams to GOLD concepts, and (Farrar, 2003) and (Farrar andThe base of several hundred manually mappedgrams has provided a reasonably reliable ?seman-tic search?
facility in ODIN, which allows lin-guists to find instances with particular kinds ofmarkup.
For example, searching for PerfectiveAspect finds instances of data where the data wasmarked up with PERF, PFV, etc., but also excludesinstances that map to ?Perfect Tense?.
Whilethe manually created mapping table covers manycommon grams, it is far from complete, especiallysince linguists can coin new grams all the time.We are currently automating the mapping by usingthe grams in the table as labeled data or seeds andclassifying new grams using supervised or semi-supervised methods.
This work, however, is stilltoo preliminary to be included in this paper.4.4 Answering questions in language profilesThe final step of Stage 2 is answering questions inlanguage profiles.
Some questions are easier to an-swer than others.
For instance, to determine whatgrammatical or lexical cases are available in a lan-guage according to the data in ODIN, we simplyneed to look at the grams in the data that map to thecase category in GOLD.
Other questions are morecomplex; for instance, to determine whether mul-tiple wh-questions are allowed in a language, weneed to examine the projected syntactic structurefor the language line and look for the positions ofany wh-words that were projected relative to oneanother.
A case study is reported next.4.5 A case study: Answering typologicalquestionsTwo biases are prevalent in IGT data, due to theopportunistic way in which it is harvested and en-riched: The first is what we call the IGT-bias, thatis, the bias produced by the fact that IGT examplesare used by authors to illustrate a particular factabout a language, causing the collection of IGT forthe language to suffer from a potential lack of rep-resentativeness.
The second we call the English-bias, an English-centrism resulting from the factthat most IGT examples provide an English trans-lation which is used to enrich the language line:as discussed in Section 4.2, the enrichment algo-rithm assigns a parse tree to the English transla-tion which is then projected onto the langauge line.Since the original parse is built over English data,the projected parse suffers from a bias caused byLangendoen, 2003) for more detailed background on GOLD.56the English source.
Because of these biases and er-rors introduced at various stages of processing, au-tomatically generated language profiles and asso-ciated examples should be treated as preliminaryand unattested, subject to verification by the lin-guist.
The question is how reliable the profiles are.To answer the question, we ran a case study inwhich we evaluated the accuracy of our system inanswering a number of typological questions, suchas the canonical order of constituents (e.g., sen-tential word order, order of constituents in nounphrases) or the existence of particular constituentsin a language (e.g., determiners).
The list of ques-tions and their possible answers are shown in Ta-ble 3 (the WALS # is a reference number used inWALS (Haspelmath et al, 2005) which uniquelyidentifies each typological parameter).In one experiment, we automatically found theanswer to the canonical word order question bylooking at the context free rules extracted fromenriched IGT data.
When tested on about 100languages, the accuracy was 99% for all the lan-guages with at least 40 IGT instances.12 Not sur-prisingly, the accuracy decreased for languageswith fewer instances (e.g., 65% for languages with5-9 IGTs).
In another experiment, our system an-swered all the 13 typological questions in Table 3for 10 languages and the accuracy was 83.1% onaverage across the questions.This study shows that, despite potential biasesand errors, we can automatically discover certainkinds of linguistic knowledge from IGT with rea-sonable accuracy and the accuracy increases asmore data becomes available.
The language pro-files built this way could serve as a complement tomanually crafted resources such as WALS.4.6 Comparison with WALSThe task is similar to the goal of the WALSproject.
In fact, the morphological and syntacticfeatures in WALS form the initial attribute set forour language profiles.13 The main difference be-tween WALS and our approach is that the informa-tion in WALS (including features, feature values,and data points) was gathered by a team of more12Some IGT instances are not sentences and therefore arenot useful for answering this question.
Further, those in-stances marked as ungrammatical (usually with an asterisk?*?)
are ignored for this and all typological questions.13WALS uses the term feature to refer to a property such ascanonical word order.
Since feature in NLP has a very differ-ent meaning, in this paper we use the term attribute insteadto avoid potential confusion.than 40 linguists, many of them the leading author-ities in the field.
In contrast, the language profilesin our work are created automatically from oppor-tunistically harvested and enriched linguistic datafound on the Web (essentially the IGT in ODIN).Another difference is that our language profilesalso include highly language-specific information(e.g., lists of language-specific syntactic construc-tions, such as bei- and ba- constructions in Man-darin), as discussed in harvested documents.
Theinformation is gathered by checking the construc-tion names included in and surrounding IGT.The benefits of our approach are twofold.
First,we can build language profiles for hundreds oflanguages with little human effort and the lan-guage profiles can be updated whenever the ODINdatabase is expanded or enriched.
Second, eachentry in the language profile in ODIN is linked tothe relevant IGT instances that are used to answerthe question.
For instance, a language profile notonly lists the canonical word order of the languagebut also IGT instances from which this informa-tion is derived.5 Extending the search facilityThe last stage of the three-stage approach is to pro-vide a search facility for linguists to search theoriginal IGTs, the enriched IGTs and the automat-ically created language files.
The current searchinterface for ODIN allows a variety of search op-tions, including search by language name or code,language family, and by grams and their relatedconcepts (e.g., Accusative case).
Once data is dis-covered that fits a particular pattern that a user isinterested in, he/she can either display the data(where sufficient citation information exists andwhere the data is not corrupted by the text-to-pdf conversion process) or locate documents fromwhich the data is extracted.
Additional search fa-cilities allow users to search across linguisticallysalient structures (?constructions?)
and return re-sults in the form of language data and languageprofiles.The ODIN database also contains thousandsof tree structures for hundreds of languages,each linked to the English tree structures fromwhich they were derived.
This can provide un-precedented options for cross-lingual query across?syntactic structures?.1414We fully recognize that the projected structures shouldbe considered highly experimental, due to noise in the pro-57Table 3: Thirteen typlogical questions tested in the case study (ndo=no dominant order, nr=not relevant)Label WALS # Description Possible ValuesWord OrderWOrder 330 Order of Words in a sentence SVO,SOV,VSO,VOS,OVS, OSV,ndo11V+OBJ 342 Order of the Verb, Object and Oblique Object (e.g., PP) VXO,VOX,OVX,OXV,XVO,XOV,ndoDT+N N/A Order of Nouns and Determiners (a, the) DT-N, N-DT, ndo, nrDem+N 358 Order of Nouns and Demonstrative Determiners Dem-N, N-Dem, ndo, nrJJ+N 354 Order of Adjectives and Nouns JJ-N, N-JJ, ndoPRP$+N N/A Order of possessive pronouns and nouns PRP$-N, N-PRP$, ndo, nrPoss+N 350 Order of Possessive NPs and nouns NP-Poss, NP-Poss, ndo, nrP+NP 346 Order of Adpositions and Nouns P-NP, NP-P, ndoMorpheme OrderN+num 138 Order of Nouns and Number Inflections (Sing, Plur) N-num, num-N, ndoN+case 210 Order of Nouns and Case Inflections N-case, case-N, ndo, nrV+TA 282 Order of Verbs and Tense/Aspect Inflections V-TA, TA-V, ndo, nrExistence TestsDef 154 Do definite determiners exist?
Yes, NoIndef 158 Do indefinite determiners exist?
Yes, NoWe plan to extend the current query facility inthree steps to allow these structure-based queries.The first step is to do a user study and identify thetypes of queries that linguists would be interestedin.
We have already consulted with a number ofsyntacticians and other linguists, and have com-piled a list of ?constructions?
that would be of themost interest, and plan to consult with more lin-guists to extend this list.15 Some of the initial con-struction queries have already been implementedin ODIN as ?prototypes?
for testing purposes.
Thesecond step is to identify tools that would facili-tate implementing these queries.
One such tool istgrep2,16 which is widely used to search treebankstyle phrase structures.
Since the tool is robust andwidely used and supported, we plan to extend itto handle the rich data structures found in the en-riched IGT data.
The third step is to write a largeset of queries in tgrep2 (or other query languages)that ?pre-package?
the most desirable queries intoa form that can be easily executed as a Web ser-vice, and design a Web GUI that provides the mostaccessibility to these queries.6 ConclusionOne of the major obstacles that linguists encounteris finding data relevant to their research.
In thispaper, we outline a three-stage procedure to allevi-ate the problem.
First, language data embedded injection algorithms, and the resulting structures still need tobe reviewed by the linguist throwing the query.
However, ourcase study demonstrates the reasonably high accuracy of an-swering typological questions with even very limited suppliesof data.
This supports their utility in spite of noise and error.15A similar study was discussed in (Soehn et al, 2008).16http://tedlab.mit.edu/?
dr/TGrep2/existing linguistic scholarly discourse is collectedand stored in the ODIN database.
Second, thelanguage data is automatically analyzed and en-riched, and language profiles are created from theenriched data.
Our case study shows that knowl-edge discovery (for the targeted attributes) worksreasonably well with even a small amount of IGTdata.
Third, a search facility is provided that al-lows linguists to search the original data, the en-riched data, and the language profiles by languagename, language family, and construction names.There are several directions for future research.We will improve and thoroughly evaluate the mod-ule that extracts various fields from IGT.
We willalso build more complete language profiles for adozen or so languages for which we have suffi-cient IGT data and linguistic knowledge to ade-quately evaluate the results.
Finally, we are ex-ploring ways of extending the query facility (e.g.,using tgrep2) to allow sophisticated search on theoriginal and enriched IGT data, and plan to pro-vide a GUI with pre-packaged queries which willbe easy for linguists to use.Acknowledgements This work has been sup-ported, in part, by NSF grants BCS-0748919 andBCS-0720670 and a RRF grant from the Univer-sity of Washington.
We would also like to thankfour anonymous reviewers for their valuable com-ments.ReferencesJohn Frederick Bailyn.
2001.
Inversion, Dislocationand Optionality in Russian.
In Gerhild Zybatow, ed-itor, Current Issues in Formal Slavic Linguistics.58Mark C. Baker and Osamuyimen Thompson Stewart.1996.
Unaccusativity and the adjective/verb distinc-tion: Edo evidence.
In Proceedings of the Fifth An-nual Conference on Document Analysis and Infor-mation Retrieval (SDAIR), Amherst, Mass.Balthasar Bickel and Johanna Nichols.
2002.
Autoty-pologizing databases and their use in fieldwork.
InProceedings of the LREC Workshop on Resourcesand Tools in Field Linguistics, Las Palmas, Spain,Jun.Steven Bird and Gary Simons.
2003.
Extending dublincore metadata to support the description and discov-ery of language resources.
Computers and the Hu-manities, 17(4):375?388.William B. Cavnar and John M. Trenkle.
1994.
N-gram-based text categorization.
In Proceedings ofSDAIR-94, 3rd Annual Symposium on DocumentAnalysis and Information Retrieval, pages 161?175,Las Vegas, US.William Croft.
2003.
Typology and Universals.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, England.Alexis Dimitriadis, Menzo Windhouwer, AdamSaulwick, Rob Goedemans, and Tams Br.
forth-coming.
How to integrate databases without start-ing a typology war: the typological database sys-tem.
In Simon Musgrave Martin Everaert and AlexisDimitriadis, editors, The Use of Databases in Cross-Linguistic Studies.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.Scott Farrar and D. Terence Langendoen.
2003.
A lin-guistic ontology for the semantic web.
GLOT Inter-national, 7(3):97?100.Scott Farrar and William D. Lewis.
2006.
TheGOLD Community of Practice: An infras-tructure for linguistic data on the Web.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.
Available athttp://faculty.washington.edu/wlewis2/papers/FarLew-06.pdf.Scott Farrar.
2003.
An ontology for linguistics on theSemantic Web.
Ph.d., University of Arizona, May.Raymond G. Gordon, editor.
2005.
Ethnologue: Lan-guages of the World.
SIL International, Dallas, 15edition.T.
Grenager, D. Klein, and D. Manning.
2005.
Unsu-pervised learning of field segmentation models forinformation extraction.
In In Proc.
ACL-05.Martin Haspelmath, Matthew Dryer David Gil, andBernard Comrie, editors.
2005.
World Atlas of Lan-guage Structures.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.William Lewis.
2006.
ODIN: A Model for Adaptingand Enriching Legacy Infrastructure.
In Proc.
of thee-Humanities Workshop, held in cooperation with e-Science 2006: 2nd IEEE International Conferenceon e-Science and Grid Computing, Amsterdam.Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos.
2007.
Joint in-ference in information extraction.
In Proceedingsof the Twenty-Second National Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence (AAAI), pages 913?918, Vancouver,Canada.
AAAI Press.M.
Richardson and P. Domingos.
2006.
Markov logicnetworks.
Machine Learning, pages 107?136.Jan-Philipp Soehn, Heike Zinsmeister, and GeorgRehm.
2008.
Requirements of a user-friendly,general-purpose corpus query interface.
In Pro-ceedings of the LREC 2008 Workshop Sustainabilityof Language Resources and Tools for Natural Lan-guage Processing, Marrakech, Morocco, May 31.B.
Wellner, A. McCallum, F. Peng, and M. Hay.
2004.An integrated, conditional model of information ex-traction and coreference with application to citationmatching.
In Proc.
of the 20th Conference on Un-certainty in AI (UAI 2004).Fei Xia and William Lewis.
2007.
Multilingual struc-tural projection across interlinear text.
In Proc.
ofthe Conference on Human Language Technologies(HLT/NAACL 2007), pages 452?459, Rochester,New York.Fei Xia and William Lewis.
2008.
RepurposingTheoretical Linguistic Data for Tool Developmentand Search.
In Proc.
of the Third InternationalJoint Conference on Natural Language Processing(IJCNLP-2008), Hyderabad, India.Fei Xia, William D. Lewis, and Hoifung Poon.
2009.Language ID in the Context of Harvesting LanguageData off the Web.
In Proceedings of The 12th Con-ference of the European Chapter of the Associationof Computational Linguistics (EACL 2009), Athens,Greece, April.59
