Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 286?290,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsSemantic interpretation of Dutch spoken dialogueJeroen GeertzenDept.
of Communication & Information SciencesTilburg University, The Netherlandsj.geertzen@uvt.nl1 IntroductionSemantic interpretation involves the process of ?translating?
natural languageto a representation of its meaning.
It could be understood as the task ofmapping syntax to semantics, assuming that the syntactic relationships inan utterance correspond to functional relationships in the meaning repre-sentation.
Relevant work in this area often uses techniques from machinetranslation and machine learning in the mapping from natural language tomeaning-representation languages (e.g.
[9, 7]).
These approaches can be ro-bust, and thus would be useful in dealing with large quantities of utterances,but require large amounts of annotated data.Since the syntax of natural language does not change much from do-main to domain, an alternative way is to use the output of a wide-coveragesyntactic parser as a basis for single, multiple, or even open-domain lan-guage processing.
To obtain a sufficiently detailed semantic representation,the phrases in the parses should be linked with domain-specific knowledgeconcepts.
In this paper, a syntactic parsing based system for the semanticinterpretation of Dutch spoken language is presented and evaluated.2 DataRepresentation of semantic content is often expressed in some form of pred-icate logic type formula.
Examples are varieties of description logics, whichextend semantic frames and networks with a formal logic-based semanticsthat uses predicates.
In any case, the semantic representation should ideallybe powerful enough to take into account complexities such as negation, quan-tification, a certain degree of under-specification and (complex) modifiers tobe interesting for use in advanced question answering systems and dialogue286systems.
Moreover, the logical form should be suitable to support feasi-ble reasoning, for which also theorem provers, model builders, and modelcheckers can be used.
Several semantic representations have been proposedthat take these aspects into account, such as for example Quasi LogicalForms [1] and Dynamic Predicate Logic [6].
For the approach presentedhere, a simplified first order logic is used similar to quasi logical forms.
Thedialogue data that is used for semantic interpretation consists of recordedinteractions with a help desk on how to operate a fax device.
Examples ofresulting utterances and their corresponding semantic content, expressed by?-expressions of first-order logic, are illustrated in the following table:utterance semantic content1 wat moet ik nu doen?
?x .
next-step(x)(what do I have to do now?
)2 druk op een toets ?x .
press(x) ?
button(x)(press a button)3 druk op de groene toets ?x .
press(x) ?
button(x) ?
color(x,?green?
)(press the green button)4 wat doet de grote knop?
?x .
function(x) ?
button(x) ?
size(x,?big?
)(what does the big button do?
)Three types of predicate groups are distinguished: action predicates,element predicates, and property predicates.
In the domain of operatinga fax device, the predicates and arguments in the logical expressions referto entities, properties, events, and tasks in the application domain.
Theapplication domain of the fax device is complex but small: the domain modelconsists of 70 entities with at most 10 properties, 72 higher-level actions ortasks, and 45 different settings.3 ApproachThe semantic representation is obtained in two stages.
In the first stage, theutterances are syntactically parsed.
In the second stage, the most probablederivation obtained in the syntactic parsing is used to construct the semanticrepresentation.For the syntactic interpretation of the utterances, the Alpino Parser isused [3].
This HPSG-based dependency parser aims to accurately provide287full parses of unrestricted Dutch text and is publicly available.1In the context of spoken dialogue processing, a syntactic parser has todeal with fragmented input and many syntactically less well-formed utter-ances in comparison to text parsing.
For this reason, the utterances areadditionally parsed with a shallow parser, and the resulting parse is usedin case the Alpino parser fails to provide a full parse.
As shallow parser, amemory based chunk parser trained for spoken Dutch [4] is employed.To resolve pronouns, a simple pronoun resolution algorithm has beenimplemented.
This algorithm is similar to the centering algorithm proposedin [8].
While processing the utterances, each noun phrase identified is placedon a temporary queue which is pushed on a history stack once the utteranceor turn is closed.
Upon encountering a pronoun, the first element on thequeue that meets gender and number agreement is selected as antecedent.If no candidate is found, the previous queue on the stack is evaluated untilan antecedent is found or all queues on the history stack are evaluated.The semantic representation is constructed by traversing the dependen-cies in the parse and by mapping words and phrases to domain concepts.These domain concepts are events, elements, and domain tasks stored in adatabase.
This process of semantic interpretation is depicted and exempli-fied in the following figure:AlpinoparserMBSPparse rutterancedependencygraphmappingDG to LFlogicalformDB:events DB:elements DB:tasksdomain modeldruk op de groene toets druk  op  de  groene  toetshd/mod hd/modhd/dethd/obj1press(X) ^ button(X) ^ color(X,?green?
)anaphoraresolutiondependencygraphThe approach reported here has several aspects in common with thatof Bos [2], who uses a CCG based parser [5] and assigns Discourse Rep-resentation Structures (DRSs) to the lexical categories used by the parser1See: http://www.let.rug.nl/?vannoord/alp/Alpino/.288after which semantic construction is driven by the syntactic derivation.
Anotable difference is that Bos first constructs a DRS representation whichis subsequently translated into first-order logic.
Another difference is thatin the approach described in this section, syntactic representations obtainedby the wide-coverage dependency parser are complemented with that of achunk parser, which increases robustness when dealing with fragmented in-put, common in spoken dialogue.4 EvaluationThe approach for obtaining semantic representations has been tested on adataset of 160 utterances and their corresponding semantic content.
All ut-terances are related to the fax domain.
The performance on identifying eachof the three types of predicates in the semantic representations is specifiedin the following table:action element propertypredicates predicates predicates overallaccuracy (%) 92.2 81.4 94.3 88.1The results show that identification of element predicates is the leastsuccessful.
Where actions and properties are usually mentioned explicitly,domain elements can be described in various ways.
Moreover, in a sub-stantial number of utterances pronouns are used, which cannot always beresolved successfully.
Nevertheless, an accuracy of 88.1% is achieved onrecovering complete semantic representations.References[1] Hiyan Alshawi.
Resolving Quasi Logical Forms.
Computational Linguistics,16(3):133?144, 1990.
[2] Johan Bos.
Computational semantics in discourse: Underspecification, resolu-tion, and inference.
Journal of Logic, Language and Information, 13(2):139?157,2004.
[3] Gosse Bouma, Gertjan van Noord, and Robert Malouf.
Alpino: Wide-coveragecomputational analysis of dutch.
In Proc.
CLIN-11, pages 45?59.
Amsterdam,2001.
[4] Sander Canisius and Antal van den Bosch.
A memory-based shallow parser forspoken dutch.
In Proc.
CLIN-14, pages 31?45, Antwerp, 2003.289[5] Stephen Clark and James R. Curran.
Parsing the WSJ using CCG and log-linearmodels.
In Proc.
ACL 2004, pages 103?110, Barcelona, 2004.
[6] Jeroen Groenendijk and Martin Stokhof.
Dynamic Predicate Logic.
Linguisticsand Philosophy, 14(1):39?100, 1991.
[7] Rohit J. Kate and Raymond J. Mooney.
Using string-kernels for learning se-mantic parsers.
In Proc.
ACL-COLING, pages 913?920, Sydney, 2006.
[8] Joel R. Tetreault.
A corpus-based evaluation of centering and pronoun resolu-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 27(4):507?520, 2001.
[9] Yuk W. Wong and Raymond Mooney.
Learning for semantic parsing withstatistical machine translation.
In Proceedings of HLT/NAACL, pages 439?446,New York, 2006.290
