Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Text and Citation Analysis for Scholarly Digital Libraries, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 36?44,Suntec, Singapore, 7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPDetecting key sentences for automatic assistance in peer reviewingresearch articles in educational sciences?gnes S?ndorXerox Research Centre Europe6.
ch.
Maupertuis 38240 Meylan,FranceA.Sandor@xrce.xerox.comAngela VorndranDIPFSchlossstrasse 29, 60486 Frankfurt,Germanyvorndran@dipf.deAbstractThe evaluation of scientific performance isgaining importance in all research disciplines.The basic process of the evaluation is peerreviewing, which is a time-consuming activ-ity.
In order to facilitate and speed up peerreviewing processes we have developed anexploratory NLP system in the field of educa-tional sciences.
The system highlights keysentences, which are supposed to reflect themost important threads of the article Thehighlighted sentences offer guidance on  thecontent-level while structural elements ?
thetitle, abstract, keywords, section headings ?give an orientation about the design of the ar-gumentation in the article.
The system is im-plemented using a discourse analysis modulecalled concept matching applied on top of theXerox Incremental Parser, a rule-based de-pendency parser.
The first results are promis-ing and indicate the directions for the futuredevelopment of the system.1 IntroductionWith the increase of centrally allocated re-search funding, the growing number of confer-ences, workshops and journals, the evaluation ofscientific articles has become a central problemof the scientific community (see for exampleWhitley and Gl?ser, 2007).
The evaluation ofarticles consists in peer reviewing, i.e.
peers?reading, understanding and commenting the arti-cles.
The peer reviewing process is a matter ofextensive research (e.g.
Bornmann 2003, Lu2005, 2008) discussing its reliability and evalua-tion methods.Peer reviewing is a very time-consuming as-signment, and Natural Language Processing(NLP) technologies might provide tools thatcould shorten the time that peer reviewers take toprocess the articles.Within the 7th framework EU project, Euro-pean Educational Research Quality Indicators(http://www.eerqi.eu), we have set up this goal,and are developing a tool for providing assis-tance to peer reviewers in educational sciences.We do not know of any other work with this per-spective.Our approach consists in highlighting key sen-tences in the articles that can be regarded as thelogical backbone of the article.
Our tool does notevaluate, but aims at focusing the evaluator?sattention on the parts of the texts that are relevantas a basis for his/her judgment.
Nor does this toolcheck if the texts conform to some formal normsof scientific writing.We regard highlighting key sentences as acomplement to the processing guidance that thestructural layout of the articles provides.
Thestructural layout of scientific articles ?
title, ab-stract, keywords, section headings ?
guide thereader in processing the logical, argumentativeand content-wise development of the article atdifferent levels: The title is the brief indication ofthe topic, the keywords yield the conceptual con-text of the topic, the abstract provides a concisesummary of the problems and results, and thesection headings guide the reader step by step inthe development of the article.
Besides thesewaymarkers, the highlighted key sentences aremeant to be an intermediary representation ofcontent development between the title, the key-words, the abstract and the section headings onthe one hand and the whole article on the otherhand.Since we define key sentences as those sen-tences that sum up the main messages of the arti-cles, and since peer reviewing consists in judgingthe scientific value of the main messages, we36assume that highlighting key sentences bothhelps understanding and provides evidence forthe peer reviewer?s evaluation.
By highlightingwe intend to add a relevant and coherent dimen-sion of the representation of the flow of the arti-cle, which is otherwise hidden, and which thereader has to discover in order to understand thearticle.Highlighting is carried out using the Xerox In-cremental Parser (XIP), a rule-based dependencyparser (Ait-Mokhtar et al, 2002).We will first provide a brief review of relatedwork.
This is followed by the description of therole of structural layout in educational researcharticles, which we wish to complement by high-lighting sentences.
In the subsequent sections wedefine the attributes of key sentences that serveas a basis for their detection and describe thenatural language processing system.
In the suc-ceeding section we present our first tests forvalidating our approach, and finally we drawsome conclusions and indicate the directions inwhich we plan to carry on this work.2 Related workOur work is in line with the growing amount ofresearch in documentation sciences and naturallanguage processing that takes into account theargumentative structure of research articles intasks such as information retrieval, informationextraction, navigation within documents andsummarization.In the domain of information retrieval as farback as the beginning of the 1990?s Liddy (1991)claimed that additional functions for search in-struments could benefit from including the dis-course-level context of the retrieved search termsin the interpretation of the results.
Liddy stressedthe ?semantic roles?
of concepts in a documentas opposed to the simple occurrence of searchterms.
Oddy et al (1992) proceed in this line ofresearch and state that discourse-level structuresin research texts could be useful to support re-trieval for the user because they represent struc-tural qualities recognized by the reader inde-pendent of the topic of the research.
Both con-centrate on the analysis of abstracts of researcharticles and propose a system to combine topicalwith structural information in the retrieval proc-ess.Kando (1997) also emphasizes the impor-tance of the discourse-level context of searchterms in the retrieved documents.
The allocationof retrieved passages to functional units and thusthe possibility to gain information about articlestructures provides a valuable opportunity to im-prove the user?s assessment of the retrieveddocuments.
A similar method of annotating textpassages according to their function in the text isconducted by Mizuta et al (2006) with the objec-tive of categorizing articles in different documentgenres.Teufel and Moens (2002) base automaticsummarization on extracting sentences annotatedwith respect to their discourse function in thetext.Lisacek et al(2005) detect sentences in bio-medical articles that describe substantially newresearch based on analyzing discourse functions.Another line of research to exploit the argu-mentative structure for navigation and informa-tion extraction is inspired by the semantic web.Instead of automatically discovering argumentstructures in texts, the approach aims at creatingconceptually motivated processing editors inwhich the users insert content according to itsargumentative function.
(see for example Uren etal., 2007, Couto and Minel, 2007.
)3 The structure of educational researcharticlesResearch articles in the educational sciences tendto display a very heterogeneous structure, likearticles in many other fields in social sciencesand humanities.
While the thematic contents ofthe articles are structured according to the re-quirements of the topic, frequent occurrences ofa unifying structure are introductory and con-cluding chapters.
However, where these chaptersappear they do not display uniform headings (cf.Fiedler, 1991:98).
Likewise Ruiying and Allison(2004) show, for example, that the structure ofresearch articles in linguistics is does not con-form to a common model, and section headingsin many cases do not refer to the function of thechapter but to the thematic contents.
Brett (1994)and Holmes (1997) observe basic structural fea-tures in the articles in political sciences and soci-ology.
They state, however, that the sectionheadings are usually not standardized.In contrast to the heterogeneity of the structureand section headings of research articles in socialsciences and humanities those in the hard sci-ences show a relatively uniform structure, andoften follow the well-known pattern of Introduc-tion ?
Methods ?
Results ?
Discussion, whichrenders their reading easier.37The structural heterogeneity of social scienceand humanities research articles, and particularlythose within educational sciences, derives fromthe coverage of a wide range of research prob-lems and the consequential variation the methodsapplied.
This discipline includes theoreticallyembedded discussions as well as empirical stud-ies or material for school praxis.
These differ-ences in the referenced subjects are reflected inthe way the research articles are organized andpresented.
Montesi and Owen (2008:151) noticea high grade of liberty granted by the educationalsciences journals for the presentation of submit-ted papers.
They also describe a clear distinctionbetween qualitative and quantitative approachesin research articles, the latter displaying a closerconnection in structural aspects to the exact sci-ences than the former.In the framework of this study we comparedthe structural properties of fifteen articles fromthree journals: the British Journal of EducationalStudies (BJES), the Educational Psychology Re-view (EPR) and the International Journal of Edu-cational Research (IJER).
These are educationalresearch journals covering a wide variety of top-ics from educational psychology to school in-struction.
We have made the following observa-tions:a) Some section headings follow the functionalstructuring of natural science articles, somedo not.
About half of the articles contain an?Introduction?
and/or a ?Conclusion?, onethird has a ?Methods?
section and 26% of thearticles has a section entitled ?Results?,?Findings?
or ?Conclusion?.
Thus a basis fora functionally orientated article structure canbe perceived in the first and last chapters ofmost of the articles.
Nearly 60% of the sec-tion headings, however, are oriented towardsaspects of the content of the articles andshow no predefined form.b) All of the articles are preceded by an abstractand eleven of them have keywords assignedto them.The keywords play an important role in ourhighlighting approach, since they are sup-posed to convey the basis for topical rele-vance.
The number of keywords assigned perarticle is between two and nine.
While somekeywords are applied only a few times in thearticle, others are used 60 or even over 100times.
In some cases the keywords are verycommon words (?teachers?, ?education?)
andthey are used frequently throughout the text.In these cases the highlighted sentences aresupposed to indicate relevant, terminologicaluses of those common, non-specialisedwords.
In other cases the keywords are rare,but they are terms used in reduced contexts,for example, terminological expressions re-lated to the field of research.
Those are veryuseful for a quick overview over the researchtopic.
Keywords appearing very rarely or notat all  often belong to a more general level ofterminology.From an information extraction point of viewthe importance of the terms in the thread ofthe article is known to be related to theirplaces of occurrence: in the title, the abstract,the section headings or even in the titles ofthe bibliography terms have more signifi-cance than in the rest of the article.
Thisproperty of terms is used in search options indigital libraries.
An appearance of the queryterm in the introduction or conclusion couldalso be a hint for the term being relevant forthe scientific context or the results of thestudy whereas terms referring to the method-ology or rather non-specific terms do notconvey much information about the centralcontents of the text.c) The abstract is supposed to sum up the mostimportant aspects of a research article.
Thearticles analyzed show that in general thesentences in the abstract correspond to asser-tions made throughout the articles in most ofthe different sections.
In a few cases mostsentences of the abstract were also taken upin the introductory or concluding part of thearticle with a summarizing function.In this section we have shown that owing to thelarge number of research fields in educationalsciences there is a high variety in the structuraldesign and organisation of the contents of educa-tional science research articles.
In contrast toresearch literature in the natural sciences, theunderstanding of educational sciences articles isnot promoted by predefined structuring of thecontents.
Additionally, a terminological vague-ness sometimes stands in the way of using key-words as reliable content indicators.
In our ap-proach we therefore aim at a representation ofarticle contents independent of the structuralproperties of the articles.4 The detection of key sentencesIn defining the characteristic features of keysentences that serve as a basis for their detectionwe rely on the kinds of judgments peer review38evaluations are supposed to make (Bridges2008).1 We have summed up these judgments asfollows:  the relevance of the topic, the clarity ofthe problem statement, the coherence of the ar-gumentation and the well-foundedness of theconclusions.
These criteria of judgment are oftenpresented as questions in the evaluation formsthat peer reviewers are asked to fill in.
Based onthese evaluation criteria we define key sentencesas sentences that describe research problems,purposes and conclusions related to the topic ofthe articles as indicated by the keywords.The key sentences receive two types of labels inour system: SUMMARY ?
the sentences thatconvey either the goal or the conclusion - orPROBLEM ?
the sentences that mention re-search problems.
Some sentences get both labels.Labeling is carried out by rules, which rely onthe conceptual definition of SUMMARY andPROBLEM sentences as we show below.In order to explain the conceptual definition wepresent a series of examples.
The followingSUMMARY and PROBLEM sentences are thefirst and last three key sentences detected in thesame article (Barrow, 2008).
In the first series ofexamples the keywords are underlined:Beginning:(1) PROBLEM: The most challenging ques-tions concern whether the body provides analternative route to knowledge, if so ofwhat.
(2) PROBLEM_SUMMARY I do not questionthis belief, but in this paper I shall try todifferentiate between and evaluate a num-ber of quite distinct claims about the impor-tance of the body  in relation to schooling ingeneral and education in particular.
(3) PROBLEM: However, to assume, as somephilosophers would, that acceptance of thatpremise concludes the debate on the ques-tion of education and the body, by implic-itly claiming that education has nothing todo with the body per se, would be absurd.End:(4) SUMMARY: Do I therefore conclude, asrationalist philosophers of education aregenerally supposed to conclude, that educa-tion has nothing to do with the body?1 In a preliminary experiment we tried to identify key sen-tences in an example-based way.
Six scholars marked thekey sentences in four articles from four domains accordingto the same evaluation criteria.
There were hardly any over-laps.
This led us to define key sentences.
(5) PROBLEM: Second, while most of theclaims made about the body and knowledgeare variously opaque, suspect, or clearlywrong, it remains true that to be fully awareof or to fully understand an art form such asballet, you need to engage in it.
(6) PROBLEM: More generally, let us attemptto articulate more straightforward argu-ments for the inclusion of sports and otherforms of bodily activity in the school cur-riculum than obscure and unconvincingclaims to the effect that they are necessary,sufficient or even directly relevant to well-developed and well-rounded educationalunderstanding.It is apparent from these sentences that ap-proaching the task by providing a normalizedfactual extraction related to the keywords as intraditional information extraction would be bothvery problematic - even in an intellectual (as op-posed to automatic) way - and may also be use-less in the case of an article whose discipline isnot related to describing facts, but rather to argu-ing about concepts.
On the other hand, the hu-man reader clearly seizes that these sentences dodescribe problems, aims and conclusions relatedto the underlined keywords.2  In the next step wedefine the characteristic features of SUMMARYand PROBLEM sentences as being conveyedindependently of the factual propositions.The features of the key sentences are assignedby applying the concept-matching frameworkdescribed in the following series of examples.This framework had previously been success-fully used in revealing argumentative functionsof research articles in a text-mining applicationof biomedical abstracts (Lisacek et al, 2005) andin citation-type analysis (S?ndor et al, 2006).
(Besides processing scientific articles, conceptmatching has also been used in risk detection inS?ndor, 2009.
)The features of key sentences are determinedby the argumentative expressions in the sen-tences, which in some way comment on the corefactual propositions.
In the next series of exam-ples we have underlined these argumentativeexpressions in the same set of sentences:2 At this point we do not attempt to specify the kind of rela-tionship between the argument types and the keywords: thisrelationship remains simple co-occurrence.39Beginning:(1) PROBLEM: The most challenging ques-tions concern whether the body provides analternative route to knowledge, if so ofwhat.
(2) PROBLEM_SUMMARY I do not questionthis belief, but in this paper I shall try todifferentiate between and evaluate a num-ber of quite distinct claims about the impor-tance of the body  in relation to schooling ingeneral and education in particular.
(3) PROBLEM: However  to assume, as somephilosophers would, that acceptance of thatpremise concludes the debate on the ques-tion of education and the body, by implic-itly claiming that education has nothing todo with the body per se, would be absurd.End:(4) SUMMARY: Do I therefore conclude, asrationalist philosophers of education aregenerally supposed to conclude, that educa-tion has nothing to do with the body?
(5) PROBLEM: Second, while most of theclaims made about the body and knowledgeare variously opaque, suspect, or clearlywrong, it remains true that to be fully awareof or to fully understand an art form such asballet, you need to engage in it.
(6) PROBLEM: More generally, let us attemptto articulate more straightforward argu-ments for the inclusion of sports and otherforms of bodily activity in the school cur-riculum than obscure and unconvincingclaims to the effect that they are necessary,sufficient or even directly relevant to well-developed and well- rounded educationalunderstanding.The detection is based on the words under-lined.
The system recognizes them since theybelong to a database of previously compiled setsof words.
The sets correspond to more or lessloosely understood semantic fields that havebeen found to be relevant in scholarly argumen-tation in the previous applications of the concept-matching framework.
The compilation of thelists has been entirely manual.
Starting from asmall number of seed words we incrementallyextend the list over subsequent analyses and test-ing.
Having worked out a first concept-matchingsystem, its modification for a new scholarly do-main takes some weeks provided that a suffi-ciently large corpus is available.
We are carryingout experiments for automatic enrichment withthe help of Wordnet, but the results have notbeen satisfactory up to this point.
However, sincethe semantic fields concerned contain a relativelywell-identifiable vocabulary within the genre ofscholarly writing, most of these words can beobtained from textbooks on academic writing.In the concept-matching framework these setsof words and expressions are called constituentconcepts.
In previous applications nine constitu-ent concepts have been identified for labelingargumentative sentences (S?ndor, 2007).
Out ofthese we use five here: MENTAL, IDEA, PUB-LICATION, DEICTIC, CONTRAST.In the present system we have used all thewords that have been compiled for labeling ar-gumentative functions of biomedical researchabstracts, and we have added a few others afterhaving studied some educational research arti-cles.
Augmenting the list of words in the con-stituent concepts undoubtedly increases the cov-erage of the system, although we have found thatthe words already compiled yield fairly largecoverage.In terms of the constituent concepts we definePROBLEMs as CONTRASTed IDEAs or CON-TRASTs in MENTAL operations involved inresearch, while  SUMMARIES of one's researchgoals and conclusions  consist in pointing out inthe current (DEICTIC) PUBLICATION one's(DEICTIC) IDEAs or MENTAL operations.
Wecite now the example sentences only through theconstituent concepts of PROBLEM and SUM-MARY:Beginning:(1) PROBLEM: ... challenging[C,M] ques-tions[C,M] ... whether[C] ... alternative[C]... to knowledge[I]  ...(2) PROBLEM_SUMMARY: I[D] ... ques-tion[C,M] this belief[M] ... in this[D] pa-per[P]...(3) PROBLEM: However[C]  to assume[C,M],... that acceptance[MC] ... concludes[C,M]the debate[C,I] ..., by ... claiming[C,M] ...would be absurd[C].End:(4) SUMMARY: ...I[D] ... conclude[C,M] ...(5) PROBLEM: ... while[C] ... the claims[I] ...are  ... wrong[C] ...(6) PROBLEM: ... unconvincing[C,M]claims[I] ...It is apparent that the words that represent theconstituent concepts in these sentential skeletonsconstitute purely argumentative expressions andare void of any factual proposition.40However, not all sentences containing thesewords convey the target concepts.
Consider forexample the following sentence from a researcharticle (Meinberg and Stern, 2003.
):(7) Only 1.8% of the claims were attributed towrong-site surgery, but 84% of the claimsdue to wrong-site surgery resulted in pay-ment to the plaintiff compared ...In order to differentiate between relevant andirrelevant ways of combining the constituentconcepts in a sentence our framework proposessyntactic criteria: sentences are labeled in casethe constituent concepts are in syntactic depend-ency relationship with each other.
The kind ofsyntactic relationship is not specified.The restriction of syntactic dependencies isespecially relevant in the case when the constitu-ent concepts are function words (like e.g.
not) orhave a general sense (like e.g.
work).
At thispoint we have not measured the impact of thisrestriction on recall and precision.We have built the concept-matching grammarfor labeling argumentation types on top of a gen-eral-purpose dependency grammar developed inXIP.
In the concept-matching grammar we de-fine the argumentative expressions as those syn-tactic dependencies where both words belong tothe particular concepts that constitute the targetconcepts as defined above.
The only exceptionsto the syntactic constraint are sentential adverbs(like ?however?
), for which the XIP grammardoes not extract any syntactic dependencies.
Thehighlighted sentences are those that contain thelabeled argumentative expressions.5 First testsOur exploratory system is based on several con-secutive hypotheses, the validity of which shouldbe tested incrementally.The first hypothesis is that the key sentencesrelevant for peer reviewing are those that de-scribe the problems, aims and results in the arti-cles, and that these sentences contain the key-words provided with the articles.
The secondhypothesis is that these sentences can be detectedusing the concept-matching grammar.
Finally thethird hypothesis is that highlighting these sen-tences can save peer reviewers?
time evaluatingarticles.Owing to the complexity and relative vague-ness of the task, we have not been able to set upeither a formal or a statistically significantevaluation up to now.
For this article we havecarried out an initial internal test3 towards thevalidation of the first two hypotheses.In a test corpus of five articles from the threeeducational research journals mentioned in Sec-tion 3 (BJES, EPR, IJES) we checked if the sen-tences highlighted by the system convey relevantinformation in the argumentative development ofthe paper and if we find other key sentences thatare not highlighted.
Next we analyzed the causesof silence and noise in order to evaluate our basicassumptions.Table 1 summarizes the results of the testover the five articles in terms of recall and preci-sion of the key sentences, and also indicates thepercentage of key sentences out of all the sen-tences in the articles.
Recall is defined as thenumber of correct sentences highlighted dividedby the total number of sentences that we consid-ered to be key sentences.
Precision is defined asthe number of correct sentences highlighted di-vided by the total number of sentences high-lighted.Table 2 shows if the missing sentences identi-fied as key sentences by the evaluator containkeywords or not.
It also displays the number ofmissing sentences in each article by type of error.Table 3 shows the number of false positive sen-tences according to the types of the causes of theerror.Article Recall Precision Keysentences(Numberof sen-tences)BJES-1 77% 67%    17%(195)BJES-2 69% 77%    11%(240)EPR-1 39% 59%  8%(331)EPR-2 30% 100%  3%(330)IJER-1 35% 67%  2%(526)Table 1.
Recall and precision of key sentencesdetected and percentage of key sentences out ofall the sentences in the article3 This test was carried out by one of the co-authors of thisarticle who did not take part in the development of the NLPsystem.41Article Keywordsin sentenceyes      no123BJES-1 6 1 4 2 3BJES-2 5 1 1 - 5EPR-1 13 12 3 6 16EPR-2 13 10 - - 23IJER-1 8 3 - 1 10All 45 27 8 9 57Table 2.
Causes of silence: 1.Incorrect analysisby the parser; 2.Inadequacy of the framework forthe task; 3.
Not SUMMARY or PROBLEM sen-tence according to our definitionArticle 1 2 3BJES-1 6 1 3BJES-2 1 2 4EPR-1 6 - 5EPR-2 - - -IJER-1 1 - 2All 14 3 14Table 3.
Causes of noise: 1.The sentencematches the rules but is not important enough;2.Incorrect analysis by the parser 3.Inadequacyof the framework for the taskWe can observe significant differences accord-ing to the journals with respect to both hypothe-ses that we have tested.
The three journals dealwith rather different research topics ranging fromtheoretical discussions to empirical studies ofstudents?
behavior.
According to our results theimportant passages of these articles are charac-terized by different attributes: while in empiricalstudies more or less definite results can be pre-sented, theoretical discussions rest more on adiscursive level offering less clear conclusions tobe identified as SUMMARY or PROBLEM sen-tences.
This is reflected on the one hand in thedifferences in recall and precision among thejournals and on the other hand in the differencesin the number of sentences missing due to error-type 3 in Table 2.In the EPR and in the IJER we found morekey sentences that are neither SUMMARY norPROBLEM sentences according to our definitionthan in the BJES.
Most of these sentences con-vey definitions related to the key concept.
Thusour first hypothesis seems to hold more for em-pirical studies than for theoretical ones.
In orderto increase the coverage of key sentences thesystem should be completed so that it also de-tects definitions, especially in the case of theo-retical articles.As for the presence of keywords in the keysentences, our results show that this is a relevantcondition, however not necessary since a numberof key sentences identified do not contain key-words.
Further study is needed to identify thecharacteristic features of key sentences withoutkeywords.
We have carried out an additional testto see if the correct key sentences cover all thekeywords in the list.
In the five articles we haveonly found one keyword that was not present inany of the key sentences, but this word appearedonly once in the whole article.
The fact that rela-tively few sentences are detected in the articlesand that in these sentences all the keywords arecovered supports the hypothesis that the key sen-tences do play an important role in the thread ofthe article.Among the errors leading to both silence andnoise we have found a number of cases wherethe concept-matching framework in its presentform is not convenient for the task of detectingkey sentences that satisfy the conditions or filter-ing erroneous sentences.
The reason for this inboth cases is that the unit of concept-matching isthe sentence, whereas in these cases a single sen-tence does not provide enough context for identi-fying or for specifying the target concepts re-spectively.
Since the number of errors due to thisreason is not very high we do not consider thatthese results invalidate the second hypothesis.The number of such false positives is quite sig-nificant, however, which might be disturbing forthe user of the system.
This kind of error couldbe overcome by enlarging the scope of concept-matching beyond the sentence.
In this way wecould filter out these false positives.In a significant number of cases noise is notdue to an error in the system but to the fact thatthe sentence is not important enough with respectto the development of the whole article.
Whetherthis kind of noise is a significant disturbing fac-tor for the user is to be tested in subsequentevaluation by users.Finally, we have found few errors due to bugsin the grammar, which indicates that the recogni-tion of SUMMARY and PROBLEM sentences isrelatively reliable.
These results also contributeto suggesting that the second hypothesis seems tohold.426 ConclusionIn this article we have presented an exploratorysystem for highlighting key sentences containingkeywords in order to support peer review.
Theselected sentences are supposed to help peer re-viewers of articles in educational sciences to fo-cus their attention on some relevant textual evi-dence for formulating their judgments.
We haveargued that even if the structural characteris-tics?
the abstract, the keywords and the sectionheadings?guide the reader in following the de-velopment of the article, content-oriented high-lighting of key sentences might enhance thequick understanding of the core contents.Although the subjects of educational scienceresearch articles display very heterogeneousstructures and contents, the system could identifya number of sentences containing the mainstatements of the articles.
Text-inherent devel-opments not accompanied by structural signs likethe outcomes of empirical studies or the contentsof a theoretical discussion about abstract termscould be identified using automatic text analysis,which can possibly save intellectual effort of sci-entists.
The time-consuming task of reviewing agrowing number of research publications, hardlymanageable when studying each submittedmanuscript thoroughly, could thus be facilitatedand supported and less threatened to be replacedby wholly automatic metric systems when timeconstraints become more severe.The method we have developed is imple-mented in XIP, a rule-based dependency parser.It uses pre-existing lexical resources and appliesthe concept-matching framework.The results of our first tests suggest that two ofour three initial hypotheses are partially valid.According to our first hypothesis the key sen-tences relevant for peer reviewing are those thatdescribe the problems, aims and results in thearticles.
We have found that sentences conveyingdefinitions, especially in theoretical articles,should also be highlighted as key sentences.
Thesecond hypothesis is that these sentences can bedetected using the concept-matching grammar.We have found in the majority of cases that thishypothesis is valid, however, enlarging the unitof concept-matching to multiple sentences wouldimprove the performance.Based on this result we are undertaking a userevaluation to measure the time needed to peerreview these articles with and without highlight-ing.
We are also planning to extend the systemin the two directions suggested by the test re-sults.Besides providing assistance to peer reviewersthe system presented here could be used in otherapplications, which we would like to explore infuture projects.
The possibilities include improv-ing search functionalities in digital libraries, dis-playing electronic documents by linking key-words to key sentences and discourse-basednavigation.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to these results has receivedfunding from the European Community's Sev-enth Framework Programme under grant agree-ment n?
217549.We would like to thank Alexander Botte,Aaron Kaplan, Peter Meyer and our partners inthe EERQI project for their valuable contribu-tions and suggestions.ReferencesSalah A?t-Mokhtar, Jean-Pierre Chanod, and ClaudeRoux.
2002.
Robustness beyond shallowness: in-cremental dependency parsing.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 8(2/3):121-144.Robin Barrow.
2008.
Education and the Body: Prole-gomena.
British Journal of Educational Studies56(3):272-285.Lutz Bornmann and Hans-Dieter Daniel.
2003.
Begu-tachtung durch Fachkollegen in der Wissenschaft.Stand der Forschung zur Reliabilit?t, Fairness undValidit?t des Peer-Review-Verfahrens.
Universit?tauf dem Pr?fstand.
Konzepte und Befunde derHochschulforschung.
(S. Schwarz and U.
Teichler,Eds.).
Campus Verlag Frankfurt/New York: 207-225.Paul Brett.
1994.
A genre analysis of the results sec-tion of sociology articles.
English for Specific Pur-poses, 13(1):47-59.David Bridges.
2008.
Criteria of Quality in Educa-tional Research.
Working Group Report of the 1stEERQI Workshop, 20-21 June 2008.
Leuven.
Pro-ject Internal Document.Javier Couto and Jean-Luc Minel.
2007.
NaviTexte : aText Navigation Tool.
Artificial Intelligence andHuman-Oriented Computing, Lecture Notes in Ar-tificial Intelligence, 4733, Springer, Berlin, Hei-delberg.Susanne Fiedler.
1991.
FachtextlinguistischeUntersuchungen zum Kommunikationsbereich derP?dagogik dargestellt an relevantenFachtextsorten im Englischen.
Lang, Frankfurta.M.43Richard Holmes.
1997.
Genre analysis, and the socialsciences: An investigation of the structure of re-search article discussion sections in three disci-plines.
English for Specific Purposes, 16(4):321-337.Noriko Kando.
1997.
Text-level structure of researchpapers: Implications for text-based informationprocessing systems.
Proceedings of the 19th Brit-ish Computer Society Annual Colloquium of Infor-mation Retrieval Research, Sheffield University,Sheffield, UK, 68-81.Elizabeth D. Liddy.
1991.
The discourse-level struc-ture of empirical abstracts: an exploratory study.Information Processing and Management,27(1):55-81.Fr?d?rique Lisacek, Christine Chichester, Aaron Kap-lan, and ?gnes Sandor.
2005.
Discovering para-digm shift patterns in biomedical abstracts: appli-cation to neurodegenerative diseases.
First Interna-tional Symposium on Semantic Mining in Biomedi-cine, Cambridge, UK, April 11-13, 2005.Yanping Lu.
2005.
Editorial Peer Review in Educa-tion: Mapping the Field.
Australian Association forResearch in Education 2004 conference papers,Melbourne, Australia (Jeffery, P. L., Ed.
):1-19.Yanping Lu.
2008.
Peer review and its contribution tomanuscript quality: an Australian perspective.Learned Publishing, 21(3):307-316.Eric G. Meinberg and Peter J. Stern.
2003.
Incidenceof Wrong-Site Surgery Among Hand Surgeons.The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery (American)85:193-197.Yoko Mizuta, Anna Korhonen, Tony Mullen, andNigel Collier.
2006.
Zone analysis in biology arti-cles as a basis for information extraction.
Interna-tional Journal of Medical Informatics, 75(6):468-87.Michaela Montesi and John Mackenzie Owen.
2008.Research journal articles as document genres: ex-ploring their role in knowledge organization.
Jour-nal of Documentation, 64(1):143-167.Robert N. Oddy, Elizabeth D. Liddy, BhaskaranBalakrishnan, Ann Bishop, Joseph Elewononi andEileen Martin.
1992.
Towards the use of situationalinformation in information retrieval.
Journal ofDocumentation, 48(2):123-171.Yang Ruiying and Desmond Allison.
2004.
Researcharticles in applied linguistics: structures from afunctional perspective.
English for Specific Pur-poses, 23(3):264-279.?gnes S?ndor, Aaron Kaplan and Gilbert Rondeau.2006.
Discourse and citation analysis with concept-matching.
International Symposium: Discourseand document (ISDD), Caen, France, June  15-16, 2006.?gnes S?ndor.
2007.
Modeling metadiscourse con-veying the author?s rhetorical strategy in biomedi-cal research abstracts.
Revue Fran?aise de Linguis-tique Appliqu?e 200(2):97-109.?gnes S?ndor.
2009.
Automatic detection of dis-course indicating emerging risk.
To appear inCritical Approaches to Discourse Analysis acrossDisciplines.
Risk as Discourse ?
Discourse as Risk:Interdisciplinary perspectives.Simone Teufel and Marc Moens.
2002.
Summarizingscientific articles: experiments with relevance andrhetorical status.
Computational Linguistics,28(4):409-445.Victoria Uren, Simon Buckingham Shum, ClaraMancini, and Gangmin Li.
2007.
Modelling Natu-ralistic Argumentation in Research Literatures:Representation and Interaction Design Issues.
In-ternational Journal of Intelligent Systems, (SpecialIssue on Computational Models of Natural Argu-ment, Eds: C. Reed and F. Grasso), 22(1):17-47.Richard Whitley and Jochen Gl?ser.
2007.
TheChanging Governance of Sciences: The Advent OfResearch Evaluation Systems.
Springer44
