Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 118?121,Athens, Greece, 30 ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsPrecision and mathematical form in first and subsequent mentions ofnumerical facts and their relation to document structureSandra Williams and Richard PowerThe Open UniversityWalton Hall, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, U.K.s.h.williams@open.ac.uk; r.power@open.ac.ukAbstractIn a corpus study we found that authorsvary both mathematical form and preci-sion1 when expressing numerical quanti-ties.
Indeed, within the same document,a quantity is often described vaguely insome places and more accurately in others.Vague descriptions tend to occur early in adocument and to be expressed in simplermathematical forms (e.g., fractions or ra-tios), whereas more accurate descriptionsof the same proportions tend to occur later,often expressed in more complex forms(e.g., decimal percentages).
Our resultscan be used in Natural Language Gener-ation (1) to generate repeat descriptionswithin the same document, and (2) to gen-erate descriptions of numerical quantitiesfor different audiences according to math-ematical ability.1 IntroductionThis study is part of the NUMGEN project2, whichaims (a) to investigate how numerical quantity de-scriptions vary in English, (b) to specify a gram-mar that covers these variations, and (c) to developan algorithm that selects appropriate descriptionsfor people with different levels of mathematicalability.
We collected, from newspapers, popularscience magazines and scientific journals, exam-ples of numerical facts that were mentioned morethan once, so that first mentions could be com-pared with subsequent mentions.
For example inthe following text, two mentions of the same nu-merical fact ?
the proportion of A grades in UKA-level examinations in 2008 ?
are underlined:1Our use of the term precision has nothing to do with pre-cision in information retrieval (i.e., the percentage of docu-ments retrieved that are relevant).2http://mcs.open.ac.uk/sw6629/numgenA-level results show record number ofA gradesRecord numbers of teenagers have re-ceived top A-level gradesBy Graeme Paton, Education EditorMore than a quarter of papers weremarked A as results in the so-called goldstandard examination reach a new high.. .
.According to figures released today bythe Joint Council for Qualifications,25.9 per cent of A-level papers wereawarded an A grade this summer .
.
.
(Daily Telegraph, 14 August 2008)Comparing the two, (a) the first (More than aquarter) is less precise than the second (25.9 percent), (b) its mathematical form, a common frac-tion, is less complex than the decimal percentageform of the second, and (c) its string has morecharacters (i.e., it is not shorter in length as mightbe expected if it were a summary).
Also, the twomentions occur in different parts of the document?
the first paragraph, and the fifth paragraph.1.1 What do we mean by precision?To compare the precision of numerical expres-sions we needed a more exact definition of theconcept.
We derived the following rules to deter-mine precision:?
Precision increases with the number of sig-nificant figures?
Round numbers imply vagueness (implicitapproximation)?
Modifiers increase the precision of roundnumbers when they indicate the direction ofapproximation (> or <)?
Common proportional quantities implyvagueness (implicit approximation similar toround numbers)118Our first rule concerns arithmetical precision ?i.e., the number of significant figures.
Thus 344with three significant figures is more precise than340 with only two and 56% with two significantfigures is more precise than 50% with one.Second, we adhere to Krifka?s RNRI (roundnumber round interpretation) theory that whenspeakers or writers mention a round figure such assixty, they mean that the actual figure is slightlyless than or more than the round number un-less they explicitly modify it with (say) exactly,and similarly, hearers or readers interpret it asrounded (Krifka, 2007).
As a consequence, sixtyand around sixty have the same level of precision,while exactly sixty is more precise than sixty.Third, we take into account modifiers (or nu-merical hedges) such as under, over, more than,and verbs such as topped.
So we say that oversixty and topped sixty are more precise than sixtysince they give more information.Finally, we extend Krifka?s ideas (2007) tocover common proportional quantities.
Krifkaconfined his ideas to scalar and numerical quan-tities, but we propose that they can also be appliedto common proportions such as half, two thirdsand three quarters and their ratio, decimal, per-centage and multiple equivalents.
We hypothesisethat when speakers or writers use a common pro-portion, they implicitly round up or down just thesame as with round whole numbers, so we wouldargue that around a half is the same level of preci-sion as a half, whereas more than half is more pre-cise than half.
When comparing different types,we take the implied vagueness of common propor-tions into account, so that we consider 25% to bemore precise than one quarter.1.2 Maths form and conceptual complexityNumerical proportions may be expressed by dif-ferent mathematical forms, e.g., fractions, ratios,percentages.
Complexity of mathematical formdenotes the amount of effort and numerical skillrequired by readers to interpret a numerical quan-tity; as complexity of mathematical concepts in-creases, the amount of effort required for compre-hension also increases.As a convenient measure of the complexity ofmathematical forms, we employ a scale corre-sponding to the levels at which they are intro-duced in the Mathematics Curriculum for Schools(1999); that is, we assume that simple concepts areMaths Form Level orComplexityWhole numbers 1?10 Level 1Whole numbers 1?100 Level 2Whole numbers 1?1000 Level 31-place decimals Level 3Common fractions Level 3Money and temperature Level 3Whole numbers > 1000 Level 43-place decimals Level 4Multiples Level 4Percentages Level 4Fractions Level 5Ratios Level 5Decimal Percentages Level 6Standard index form Level 8Table 1: Scale of Level/Complexity extractedfrom the Maths Curriculum for Schools (1999)taught before difficult ones, so that a child learnswhole numbers up to ten at Level 1, then muchlater learns standard index form (e.g., 4.12x106)at Level 8 (table 1).2 HypothesesOur hypotheses about repeated mentions of nu-merical facts are as follows:?
Precision will increase from first to subse-quent mentions.?
Level of complexity of mathematical formswill increase from first to subsequent men-tions.?
Changes in precision and mathematical formare related to document structure.3 Empirical Study3.1 The NUMGEN CorpusThe corpus has 97 articles on ten topics, whereeach topic describes the same underlying numer-ical quantities, e.g., 19 articles on the discovery ofa new planet al published in the first week of May2007 (from Astronomy and Astrophysics, Nature,Scientific American, New Scientist, Science, 11newspapers and three Internet news sites).
In total,the corpus has 2,648 sentences and 54,684 words.1193.2 Corpus analysis and annotationThe articles were split into sentences automati-cally, then checked and corrected manually.
Weannotated 1,887 numerical quantity expressions(788 integers, 319 dates, 140 decimals, 87 frac-tions, 107 multiples, 66 ordinals, 336 percentagesand 44 ratios).In this study, we looked for coreferring phrasescontaining numerical quantities, such as the sen-tences .
.
.
of papers were marked A and .
.
.
of A-level papers were awarded an A grade in the abovetext, and compared the numerical expressions as-sociated with them.3 Then, for each fact, we notedthe linguistic form of first and subsequent men-tions in each text and their document positions.3.3 Judgements on precision andmathematical levelTwo readers (the authors) judged whether preci-sion had changed from first to subsequent men-tions of a numerical fact in a text, and if so,whether it had increased or decreased, accordingto the rules set out in the list in section 1.1.
Wealso judged the conceptual complexity of mathe-matical forms, ranging from 1 to 8 (as defined intable 1).
For precision, the judges agreed on 94%of cases (Cohen?s kappa is 0.88).
Differences wereresolved by discussion.3.4 ResultsTable 2 shows results for binomial tests on 88cases of repeated numerical facts.
They showa clear trend towards unequal precision betweenfirst and subsequent mentions and, in the 62 caseswhere it is unequal, an overwhelming trend forprecision to increase.
Regarding mathematicallevel (i.e., the complexity scale for mathematicalform), the trend is for subsequent mentions to havea level equal to that of first mentions, but in the 31cases where it is unequal, they show a significanttrend towards an increase in level ?
i.e., subse-quent mentions are conceptually more difficult.Our first hypothesis (precision increases fromfirst to subsequent mentions) is thus clearly sup-ported.
Our second hypothesis (level of concep-tual complexity increases from first to subsequentmentions) is supported by significant increases inlevel only where the level changed.
Note that by3Note that the numerical facts themselves do not corefer,since they are merely properties of coreferring sets or scales(Deemter and Kibble, 2000).Observation n Prop.
Sig.Precision: Equal 26 .30 .0002Unequal 62 .70Precision: Increase 56 .90Decrease 6 .10 .00001Maths Level: Equal 57 .65Unequal 31 .35 .007Maths Level: Increase 25 .81Decrease 6 .19 .0009Table 2: Binomial tests on repeated mentions,based on .5 probability, 2-tailed, Z approximation.our definition, complexity of mathematical con-cepts is distinct from precision: for example, 59is more precise than 60 but equally complex (bothare taught at Level 2 ?
whole numbers up to 100).Further investigation revealed that mathematicallevel tended to remain the same where both men-tions were at the beginning of a document (n=14,p < 0.005, in a 2-tailed binomial test, as above).Hypothesis three (changes in precision andmathematical form are related to document struc-ture) is partially validated in that precision andmathematical level both increase from early tolater positions in the document structure.4 DiscussionAre these results surprising?
We believe they showthat appropriate presentation of numerical infor-mation requires surprising sophistication.
It isusual to summarise information early in an arti-cle, but with numerical facts, summarisation can-not be equated with lower precision or with sim-pler mathematical form.
If summarisation meansidentifying important facts and presenting themin a condensed form, then why are early men-tions of numerical facts not condensed?
A sur-prisingly large proportion of first mentions (45%)had longer (or equally long) strings than subse-quent mentions (see the text in the introduction,where More than a quarter is longer than 25.9 percent).
Also, why change the mathematical form?It is not obvious that 25.9% should be convertedto a common fraction.
Intuitively we might reasonthat 25.9% is close to 25% which can be expressedby the simpler mathematical form a quarter, but itis far from obvious how this reasoning should begeneralised so that it applies to all cases.A side-effect of our analysis is that it pro-vides some empirical evidence in support of120Krifka?s RNRI theory (2007); however, the datais sparse.
Ten repeated mentions of numericalfacts had round, whole number first mentionsand subsequent mentions that were more precise,e.g., 200,000. .
.
207,000.
Thus demonstrating thatauthors do indeed write round numbers whichthey intend readers to interpret as being approxi-mate.
There is similar evidence from 22 examplesdemonstrating that RNRI can be extended to com-mon proportions.5 Related workCommunicating numerical information is impor-tant in Natural Language Generation (NLG) be-cause input data is wholly or partially numericalin nearly every NLG system, but the problem hasreceived little attention.
For example, SUMTIMEsummarises weather prediction data for oil rig per-sonnel e.g., 1.0-1.5 mainly SW swell falling 1.0or less mainly SSW swell by afternoon (Reiter etal., 2005) but would require much greater flexi-bility to present the same numerical facts to non-professionals.The difficulty of communicating numerical in-formation has been highlighted in educational andpsychological research.
Hansen et al?s book(2005) provides ample evidence of confusions thatmany children have about e.g., decimal places; in-deed, they demonstrate that many believe 68.95%is larger than 70.1% -- misconceptions that oftenpersist into adulthood.
Even professionals misun-derstand the mathematics of risk.
Gingerenzer andEdwards (2003) found doctors calculate more re-liably with reference sets than with proportions.We are not aware of any research on linguisticvariation in proportions; in fact, a recent special is-sue on numerical expressions contained no paperson proportions (Corver et al, 2007).6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we presented:?
A set of rules for determining precision in nu-merical quantities that is sufficient to coverthe examples in our corpus?
A scale for conceptual complexity in numer-ical expressions derived from the Mathemat-ics Curriculum for Schools.?
A corpus of sets of articles whose main mes-sage is to present numerical facts?
Empirical results demonstrating trends to-wards increasing precision and complexity inrepeat mentions of numerical facts with posi-tion in document structure.Our results identify an interesting and well-defined problem that will be addressed in the fi-nal stage of NUMGEN: how to derive appropriatesimplified expressions (less precise, simpler math-ematical form) for use in contexts like the open-ings of articles, or communications intended forreaders with lower levels of mathematical ability.AcknowledgementsOur thanks to members of The Open UniversityNLG Group.
NUMGEN is supported by ESRC4Small Grant RES-000-22-2760.ReferencesN.
Corver, J. Doetjes, and J. Zwarts.
2007.
Linguis-tic perspectives on numerical expressions: Introduc-tion.
Lingua, Special issue on Linguistic perspec-tives on numerical expressions, 117(5):751?775.K.
Van Deemter and R. Kibble.
2000.
On Corefer-ring: coreference in MUC and related annotationschemes.
Computational Linguistics, 26:629?637.G.
Gigerenza and A. Edwards.
2003.
Simple toolsfor understanding risks: from innumeracy to insight.British Medical Journal, 327:714?744.A.
Hansen, D. Drews, J. Dudgeon, F. Lawton, andL.
Surtees.
2005.
Children?s Errors in Maths:Understanding Common Misconceptions in PrimarySchools.
Learning Matters Ltd, Exeter, UK.M.
Krifka.
2007.
Approximate interpretation of num-ber words: A case for strategic communication.
InG.
Bouma, I. Kraer, and J. Zwarts, editors, Cognitivefoundations of interpretation, pages 111?126, Am-sterdam.
Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie vanWetenschapen.Qualification and Curriculum Authority.
1999.
Math-ematics: the National Curriculum for England.
De-partment for Education and Employment, London.E.
Reiter, S. Sripada, J.
Hunter, J. Yu, and I. Davy.2005.
Choosing words in computer-generatedweather forecasts.
Artificial Intelligence, 167(1-2):137?169.4Economic and Social Research Council121
