Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 17?23,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPCorpus-based Sinhala LexiconRuvan Weerasinghe1, Dulip Herath2, Viraj Welgama3Language Technology Research Laboratory,University of Colombo School of Computing35, Reid Avenue, Colombo 07,Sri Lanka{arw1, dlh2, wvw3}@ucsc.cmb.ac.lkAbstractLexicon is in important resource in any kind oflanguage processing application.
Corpus-basedlexica have several advantages over other tra-ditional approaches.
The lexicon developed forSinhala was based on the text obtained from acorpus of 10 million words drawn from di-verse genres.
The words extracted from thecorpus have been labeled with parts of speechcategories defined according to a novel classi-fication proposed for Sinhala.
The lexicon re-ports 80% coverage over unrestricted text ob-tained from online sources.
The lexicon hasbeen implemented in Lexical Mark up Frame-work.1 IntroductionThe availability of lexical resources is central tomany natural language processing tasks as wordsplay a crucial role in defining higher level con-structions such as phrases, clauses and sentencesof any language.
The most generic and basiclexical resource for such work is a lexicon, pref-erably with part of speech annotation and infor-mation about possible word forms.
The latter isimportant especially for morphologically richlanguages such as Sinhala.
This kind of resourceis extremely useful for part of speech tagging,grammar development and parsing, machinetranslations, speech processing applications,among others.
As new knowledge is created, newconcepts are introduced to the language in termsof words.
Non-corpus-based lexicon develop-ment approaches are not capable of acquiringthese new words into lexica due to their inherentlimitations such as reliance on introspection andlinguistic exposure of the human compiler(s).Therefore it is essential to adopt less expensive(less time consuming, labor intensive and robust)alternative strategies to develop wide-coveragelexica for less studied languages.This paper presents a lexicon for Sinhala whichhas nearly 35,000 entries based on the text drawnfrom the UCSC Text Corpus of ContemporarySinhala consisting of 10 million words from di-verse genres.
The corpus-based approach takenin this work can overcome the limitations thattraditional approaches suffering from such as lessreliance on less expert knowledge, the ability tocapture modern usage based on recently intro-duced words and wide coverage.The lexical entries defined in this approach areclassified according to a novel classification inorder to fulfill the requirements of languageprocessing tasks.
The broad classes defined aresignificantly different from those described intraditional Sinhala grammar.
For declensionalclasses such as Nouns and Verbs, further subdi-visions have been proposed based on their mor-pho-phonemic features.
Each of the subdivisionclasses is associated with a set of rules that canbe used to generate all possible morphologicalforms of that group.
This has made a significantcontribution to improve the coverage of the lexi-con as for a given lexical entry it is hard to guar-antee that all possible forms exist in the originalcorpus.
However, the rules defined in each classguarantee recognize such unseen forms in the testdata set.In addition, a comprehensive set of functionwords has been defined based on some of theindeclinable classes such as Post-positions, Parti-cles, Determiners, Conjunctions and Interjec-tions.
The lexicon also consists of the mostcommonly used named entities such as personand city names.
Syllabified phonetic transcrip-tions of the lexical entries are also incorporatedin order to make this resource useful in speechprocessing applications.17These characteristics are essential in buildingeffective practical natural language processingapplications.
To the best of our knowledge, thisis the first attempt to build a wide coverage lexi-con for Sinhala from a computational linguisticperspective reported in the literature.The rest of the paper describes the work carriedout in detail.
Section 2 gives a detailed descrip-tion of the data acquisition stage, the part ofspeech categories and the subdivisions based onmorphology and the phonetic transcription withsyllabification.
The implementation details of thelexicon and schemas defined for lexical entriesusing Lexical Mark up Framework (LMF) isgiven in Section 3.
Section 4 comments on theresults of the experiments conducted to measurethe coverage of the lexicon.
Finally, Section 5discusses the issues and limitations of the currentwork with insights for future work.2 Sinhala Lexicon2.1 Data AcquisitionThe data for the lexicon was obtained from theUCSC Sinhala Corpus which has text drawnfrom diverse genres namely, Creative Writing,Technical Writing and News Reportage.
Thecorpus represents the modern usage of Sinhala inthe above mentioned genres.
This guarantees therobustness of the lexicon in practical languageprocessing applications.
The text distributionacross genres in the corpus is given in Table 1.Genre Number  of Words% Numberof WordsCreativeWriting2,340,99923%TechnicalWriting4,357,68043%NewsReportage 3,433,77234%Table 1.
Distribution of Corpus Textacross GenresIt is clear from the Table 1 that the corpus isfairly balanced across genres while CreativeWriting and Technical Writing genres respec-tively make the lowest and the highest contribu-tions to the total word count of the corpus.In order to extract the candidate words for thelexicon, a distinct word list with frequencies wasobtained by running a simple tokenizer on thecorpus text.
Misspelt and irrelevant tokens (num-bers, foreign words, etc) were removed from thelist after manual inspection.
Further, the resultantwords were manually classified into their respec-tive parts of speech for subsequent processingbased on a predefined classification.
This wascarried out by a team of five members includingone senior linguist.
At the initial stage of thisphase, a substantial effort was made to train themanual classifiers to classify words according tothe predefined set of classification criteria.
Inorder to automate this process, the high fre-quency words were first classified into their re-spective parts of speech and then certain wordending patterns peculiar to each class were iden-tified.
These patterns were used to classify therest of the list automatically by running regularexpression matching followed by manual clean-ing.
This strategy significantly accelerated thedata acquisition process.In addition to the words taken from the corpus, acomprehensive list of named entities such as per-son, village/city, country, capital, product nameswas added to the lexicon after processing datasources obtained from the Departments of Cen-sus & Statistics and Inland Revenue.
These en-tries were absorbed into the lexicon on the basisof complete enumeration.2.2 Parts of Speech and MorphologyIn traditional Sinhala grammar, several classifi-cations have been proposed for parts of speech.This is mainly due to the existence of differentgrammatical schools in Sinhala language studies.They can be broadly classified into three maincategories namely, notions based on Sanskritgrammar (Dharmarama, 1913), ideas inspired bylanguage purism significantly different fromthose based on Sanskrit grammar (Kumaratu-naga, 1963), and classifications proposed in thelight of modern linguistics (Karunatilake, 2004).From a computational linguistic point of view,each of these classifications while having theirown strengths is unable to capture phenomenawhich are useful for computational linguistics.They are mainly descriptive treatments of lan-guage which are used for pedagogical purposeswhereas a computational model requires a formalanalytical treatment in order to be of any use.Due to the limitations of the existing classifica-tions of Sinhala words, a novel classification ofpart-of-speech categories was developed afterstudying the existing classifications closely; con-sulting linguists and reviewing part of speech tagset design initiatives for other Indic languages.Widely accepted and used tag sets for Englishwere also taken into account when proposed18classification was developed.
As described insection 1, the current classification has improvedthe predictive power of each class and this has inturn improved the coverage that is essential forrobustness of the lexicon in computational lin-guistic and natural language processing tasks.Part ofSpeechFrequencyNoun 12264 35.89%Verb 1018 3.00%Adjective 2869 8.40%Adverb 315 0.92%Postposition 146 0.43%Particle 145 0.42%Conjunction 29 0.08%Numeral 382 1.12%Determiner 76 0.22%Pronoun 150 0.44%Proper Noun 16585 48.52%Verb Particle 158 0.46%Interjection 44 0.13%Table 2.
Part of Speech Categoriesand their FrequenciesTable 2 shows the thirteen broad classes of partsof speech used in the proposed lexicon.
Names ofthese categories are self-explanatory except forVerb Particle which stands for a category ofwords that are used in Sinhala compound verbs,exemplified best by the terms ?????
(Sinhala:ikuth, Sanskrit: athikr?nth?
), ???
(Sinhala: path,Sanskrit: pr?pth?
), and ??
(Sinhala: pal?, San-skrit: pr?k?t?).
Most of these Verb Particles arelocalized forms of past participle forms of someSanskrit verbs.
For some historical reason, onlypast participle forms of these verbs are present inmodern usage of Sinhala but not the other forms.According to the frequency distribution of partsof speech categories given in Table 2, it is clearthat nearly 50% of the lexical entries are ProperNouns.
Overall 85% of the total number of en-tries is nouns with only 3% being Verbs.
This ismainly due to the fact that Sinhala has manycompound verbs.
Compound verbs are usuallyformed by using Nouns, Adjectives, Verb Parti-cles and Participles of some verbs together withthe helper verbs such as ?????
(English: do),?????
(English: be), ?????
(English: give),??????
(English: take), and ?????
(English: put).As this contextual information is absent it is hardto determine whether a particular noun or adjec-tive or any other word has occurred as a constitu-ent of a compound verb or not.
Therefore theywere classified as if they occurred in their pri-mary category.Even though the number of entries under Verbcategory is relatively small i.e.
nearly 3%, it wasfound that the number of instances of those verbsis significantly high.
In the distinct word list ob-tained from the original corpus, 4.64% of theentries were verbs (including inflected forms).The total number of instances of verbs (includinginflected forms) in the corpus is 19.4% of thetotal number of words in the corpus.
This impliesthat 3% of the lexicon has coverage of nearly20% of the corpus.
In addition, it was found that27.7% of the verbs in the corpus are compoundverbs since verbs that are essentially part ofcompound verbs (????
?, ????
?, ????
?, ??????,?????)
have occurred 27.7% of the corpus.It was also possible to identify a set of wordswhich plays only functional roles in Sinhala sen-tences and have no lexical meaning.
In the tradi-tional treatments of grammar they are classifiedas nipa:th?
which literally means ?things that fallin either initial or medial or final position of asentence to express the relationships among ele-ments of the sentence?.
This definition does nottake into account the different functional rolesplayed by those words and therefore classifiesthem into one single class called nipa:th?.
In thework described here, these words were classifiedinto five classes namely, Postpositions, Particles,Conjunctions, Determiners and Interjections.
Alist of 440 words that belong to these five classesform the first function (stop) word list reportedfor Sinhala.
Identifying the function words isimportant for applications such as informationretrieval, prosody modeling in speech synthesis,semantic role labeling, and dependency parsing.Nouns and Verbs are further classified into sub-classes according to their inflectional/declensionparadigms given in Table 3 and 4.
These sub-classes are mainly specified by the morpho-phonemic characteristics of stems/roots.Gender Subclass FrequencyConsonant-1 63Consonant-2 13ConsonantReduplication 973Front-MidVowel 1231Back Vowel 191Retroflex-1 81Retroflex-2 61Kinship 180MasculineIrregular 41Feminine Consonant 1219Front-MidVowel 168Back Vowel 78Irregular 17Consonant 2303ConsonantReduplication 206Front-MidVowel 4379Mid Vowel 115Back Vowel 1097Retroflex-1 127Retroflex-2 523Uncountable 404NeuterIrregular 12Table 3.
Noun SubclassesNouns are primarily classified with respect to thephone type of the final position of the stem: Con-sonant-1 and Consonant-2 classes have stemsthat have a consonant ending.
The difference be-tween these two classes is defined by the phono-logical changes that take place when nominal andaccusative suffixes are added to the stem.
Thenoun stems belong Consonant-1 has the pluralsuffix (-u) and their final position consonant isreduplicated when the suffix is appendedwhereas noun stems belong to Consonant-2 hasnull suffix to mark plurality.The noun stems that belong to Consonant Redu-plication have either vowel /i/ or /u/ at the finalposition.
When a nominative or accusative suffix(-a: / -O: / -an) is appended to the noun stem thefinal position vowel is deleted and the penulti-mate non-retroflex consonant is reduplicated.
Ifthe consonant is retroflex they are classified un-der Retroflex-1.
If the noun stems that havevowel /?/ at the final position and the penultimateconsonant is retroflex then the vowel is deletedand the nominative or accusative suffix is ap-pended to the remaining part of the stem.
Thisclass is named as Retroflex-2.When a nominative or accusative suffix is ap-pended to a noun stem that belongs to Front-MidVowel subclass, the semi-consonant /y/ is in-serted between the noun stem and the suffix.Similarly, /w/ is inserted if the noun stem belongsto Back Vowel category.Kinship and Uncount-able nouns1 are inflected in a unique manner irre-spective of the phonetic characteristics of stemendings.
Each subcategory (Masculine, Femi-1 These two classes have been defined on a semanticbasis whereas the other classes are based on phoneticand morphological characteristics of stems.nine, and Neuter) has a set of stems that behavesirregularly.Each category has a unique set of phonologicalrules and inflectional suffixes to generate 130possible word forms.Verbs have been classified into four main sub-classes according to the phonetic characteristicsof their roots.Subclass Frequency?-ending 488e-ending 325i-ending 90irregular 115Table 4.
Verb SubclassesAs shown in Table 4 the most frequently occur-ring verbs belong to the ?-ending category.
Eachof these verb categories except for the irregularcategory has a unique set of phonological rulesand suffixes to generate 240 possible wordforms.2.3 Phonetic TranscriptionsSinhala orthography is relatively unambiguous aseach character corresponds to a unique speechsound.
However there are a few ambiguous casesthat have to be resolved by taking the contextinto account.
Though Sinhala orthography hasdifferent symbols to denote aspirated and un-aspirated consonants, in present usage aspirationis not present.
Similarly, the alveolar consonantssuch as ?
(/l/) and ?
(/n/) are now pronounced astheir dental counterparts ?
and ?.
Schwa epen-thesis also plays a crucial role in Sinhala pronun-ciation as it leads to significant meaning changesof Sinhala words.Having considered all these issues, it was de-cided to incorporate phonetic transcriptions oflexical entries in order to make the current lexi-con general purpose.
This piece of information isvery useful for speech synthesis and recognitionapplication development.
Syllabified phonetictranscriptions were automatically derived by ap-plying the grapheme to phoneme (G2P) rules andthe syllabification algorithm described in (Wa-sala et al 2006) and (Weerasinghe et al 2005)respectively that report 98% on G2P and 99%accuracy on syllabification.
All phonetic tran-scriptions are given in International Phonetic Al-phabet (IPA) symbols.203 ImplementationThe lexicon has been implemented in XML ac-cording to the specification given in LexicalMark-up Framework (Francopoulo et al 2006)which is now the ISO standard for lexicon devel-opment.
The XML schema defined for Nounsand Verbs with some examples are shown inFigure 1 and 2 respectively.Figure 1.
Lexical Entries forNouns ?????
and ????
?.Figure 2.
Lexical Entries forVerbs ?????
(see) and ?????????
(smile)As shown in Figure 1, a typical noun entry hasmain part of speech category (partOfSpeech),sub category (subClass).
Each Lemma has twofeature attributes namely citation form and pro-nunciation.
WordForm has several feature at-tributes called writtenForm which is the ortho-graphic representation, pronunciation, number,gender, person, definiteness and case of the par-ticular word form.In addition to the attributes available in Nouns,schema defined for Verbs have some attributespeculiar to verbs such as tense, aspect and mo-dality.
For Verb, only the present tense.4 Evaluation4.1 Test Data SetsThe coverage of the current lexicon was meas-ured by conducting a set of experiments on testdata prepared for each of the three genres: NewsReportage, Technical Writing, and CreativeWriting.
This data was obtained from text avail-able online: online newspapers, Sinhala Wikipe-dia, blogs and other websites.
From this data twotypes of test data sets were prepared namely un-cleaned and cleaned test data sets.
The un-cleaned test data contains all the text as theywere whereas the cleaned test data containswords that have occurred more than once.
Tables5 and 6 respectively give the details of un-cleaned and cleaned data sets.Genre Type SizeFull Text 108,018 CreativeWriting Distinct List 22,663Full Text 107,004 TechnicalWriting Distinct List 25,786Full Text 103,194 NewsReportage Distinct List 20,225Table 5.
Un-Cleaned Test Data forThree Main GenresGenre Type SizeFull Text 94,971 CreativeWriting Distinct List 9,616Full Text 91,323 TechnicalWriting Distinct List 10,105Full Text 91,838 NewsReportage Distinct List 8,869Table 6.
Cleaned Test Data forThree Main Genres4.2 Lexicon CoverageInitially, coverage of the lexicon was measuredfor each genre for both Full Text (FT) and Dis-tinct Wordlist (DW) obtained from full text on21each data sets: un-cleaned and cleaned.
Accord-ing to the results of this experiment shown inTable 7, the lexicon reports its highest coveragein Creative Writing genre and the lowest is re-ported in News Reportage.Data SetGenreUn-cleaned CleanedDW FT DW FTCreativeWriting 60.11%82.42%72.21%86.71%TechnicalWriting58.74%80.32%70.73%84.15%NewsReportage 55.20% 79.82% 71.1% 85.81%Table 7.
Coverage Reported for eachGenre on Un-cleaned and Cleaned Data SetsThere is a significant difference between thecoverage reported on the Distinct Wordlists ob-tained from Un-cleaned and Cleaned datasetsthat is 60% to 72% in Creative Writing, 58% to70% in Technical Writing and 55% to 71% inNews Reportage.
This consistent differenceproves that a significant number of the wordsthat could not be found in the lexicon were oc-curred only once in the test data set.Relatively higher coverage can be achieved whenthe full text is used rather than a distinct list ofwords.
As high frequency words occur in textmore than once in practical situations the lexiconcovers a large area of the text though it cannotrecognize some low frequency words in the text.This is evident from the differences of coveragereported on Distinct Wordlists and Full Text forboth un-cleaned and cleaned data sets (see Table7).
Around 20% coverage difference betweenDistinct Wordlist and Full Text was reported foreach genre.The average coverage of the lexicon was com-puted by averaging the coverage reported forthree different genres on un-cleaned full-text(FT) data set, which is 80.9%.In addition, a similar experiment was conductedto measure the significance of the classificationproposed in the current work.
In that experiment,the coverage of the lexicon was measured by tak-ing only the word forms occurred in the originalcorpus but not all the forms of the words oc-curred in the original corpus.
Then the rules de-fined in each subdivision of nouns and verbswere used to generate all possible forms of thewords occurred in the original corpus.
This ex-periment was carried out on the distinct word listobtained from the un-cleaned data set.
The re-sults show that there were 3.8%, 3.4% and 3.2%improvements in the coverage of creative writ-ing, technical writing and news reportage genresrespectively after introducing the generationrules for each subdivision of nouns and verbs.4.3 Error AnalysisA comprehensive error analysis was done on thewords that could not be found in the lexicon toidentify the issues behind the errors reported.
Itwas found that there were several types of errorsthat have contributed to the overall error.
Theidentified error types are given in Table 8.Error Type DescriptionWord Division Errors (D)Word does not followstandard word divisionpolicySpelling Error (E) Word is incorrectly speltForeign Word (F) Foreign word written in Sinhala scriptNon Standard Spelling (N) Word does not follow standard spellingProper Nouns (P) Word is a Proper NounSpoken Forms (S) Word is a spoken formTypographic Errors (T) Word had typographic errorsWrong Word Forms (W) Word is an incorrect morphological formCorrect Forms (C) Correct word not found in the lexiconTable 8.
Typical Errors Found in theError AnalysisThe distribution of these errors across three dif-ferent genres is given in Table 9.
These resultswere taken only for the cleaned data set.
Accord-ing to the reported results, it is clear that someerrors are prominent in some genres are some areconsistently present in all the genres.
For exam-ple, word division errors (D), correct form errors(C), wrong word form errors (W), and non stan-dard spelling errors (N) are consistently occur-ring in all three genres whereas spoken form er-rors (S) are prominent in Creative Writing genre(8.52%), Spelling Errors (E) are more prominentin Technical Writing genre, more foreign worderrors (F) are found in Technical Writing genre,typographic errors (T) are prominent in found inNews Reportage.ErrorTypeCreativeWritingTechnicalWritingNewsReportageDW FT DW FT DW FT22C 38.88 39.59 25.81 25.20 17.16 10.57D 31.84 32.28 23.16 25.36 33.82 33.15E 5.01 4.49 6.31 5.72 2.31 2.60F 3.01 2.27 5.27 3.37 2.12 2.19N 2.30 2.77 6.34 5.94 5.40 6.44P 2.86 1.89 11.37 11.59 11.03 7.88S 8.52 8.64 3.20 2.14 5.40 4.34T 6.22 6.84 14.96 17.88 18.97 29.10W 1.36 1.22 3.58 2.79 3.78 3.73Table 9.
Different Error Types Distributedacross Three Genres Reported onDistinct Wordlist (DW) and Full Text (FT)It can be concluded from these observations thatthe errors that are genre independent occur morefrequently than genre dependent error and theyare the most general mistakes that writers makein their writings.
The typographic errors thatmore frequent in Technical Writing and NewsReportage genres are mainly due to the compli-cations in Sinhala typing and Unicode represen-tation.
As Sinhala Unicode uses Zero WidthJoiner character very often to represent combinedcharacters typists make errors when typing byinserting this character incorrectly.
It is hard forthem to correct it by deleting that character as itis invisible to the typist on the computer screen.It is clear that from the results shown in Table 9that there is no significant difference between theerror distributions in distinct wordlist and fulltext test data.5 Issues and Future WorkThe current lexicon has 80% coverage over unre-stricted text selected from online sources.
In or-der to make this lexicon robust in practical lan-guage processing applications it is important tofurther improve its coverage in different do-mains.It was observed that the number of verbs in thelexicon is relatively small due to the fact thatfairly large numbers of Sinhala verbs are com-pound verbs.
In the future it is expected to incor-porate those compound verbs so that the cover-age of verbs of the lexicon is relatively higher.In the current implementation the word forms ofnouns and verbs are generated by using thirdparty commercial software.
It is expected to in-corporate a morphological analyzer and genera-tor so that all the possible word forms can begenerated by the lexicon itself.6 AcknowledgementsAuthors are very grateful to Prof Tissa Jayawar-dana at the University of Colombo for his gener-ous support extended to linguistic aspect of thisproject.
The contribution made by the membersof the Development Team at the Language Tech-nology Research Laboratory of the University ofColombo of School of Computing-Sri Lanka formanual data classification process is highly ap-preciated.
Authors would also like to acknowl-edge the feedback given by three unknown re-viewers as they have been extremely useful inimproving the quality of the work reported.ReferencesAsanka Wasala, Ruvan Weerasinghe, KumuduGamage.
2006.
Sinhala Grapheme-toPhonemeConversion and Rules for Schwa Epenthesis.
Pro-ceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Confer-ence Poster Sessions, Sydney, Australia.
pp.
890?897Gil Francopoulo, Monte George, Nicoletta Calzolari,Monica Monachini, Nuria Bel, Mandy Pet, ClaudiaSoria.
2006.
Lexical Ma rkup Framework.
LREC2006Kumaratunga Munidasa.
1963.
Vyakarana Viva-ranaya.
M. D. Gunasena Publishers, ColomboRathmalane Dharmarama.
1913.
Sidath Sangarawa.Author Publication.Ruvan Weerasinghe Asanka Wasala, and KumuduGamage.
2005 A Rule Based SyllabificationAlgtoithm for Sinhala.
Proceedings of the 2nd In-ternational Joint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing (IJCNLP-05), Jeju Island, Korea.
pp.438-449W S Karunatilaka.
2004.
Sinhala Bhasa Vyakaranaya.5th Edition, M. D Gunasena Publishers, Colombo23
