Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technologies for African Languages ?
AfLaT 2009, pages 74?80,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsInterlinear glossing and its role in theoretical and descriptive studies ofAfrican and other lesser-documented languagesDorothee BeermannNorwegian University of Scienceand TechnologyTrondheim, Norwaydorothee.beermann@hf.ntnu.noPavel MihaylovOntotext,Sofia, Bulgariapavel@ontotext.comAbstractIn a manuscript William Labov (1987)states that although linguistics is a fieldwith a long historical tradition and witha high degree of consensus on basic cat-egories, it experiences a fundamental de-vision concerning the role that quantita-tive methods should play as part of theresearch progress.
Linguists differ in therole they assign to the use of natural lan-guage examples in linguistic research andin the publication of its results.
In this pa-per we suggest that the general availabil-ity of richly annotated, multi-lingual datadirectly suited for scientific publicationscould have a positive impact on the waywe think about language, and how we ap-proach linguistics.We encourage the sys-tematic generation of linguistic data be-yond what emerges from fieldwork andother descriptive studies and introduce anonline glossing tool for textual data anno-tation.
We argue that the availability ofsuch an online tool will facilitate the gen-eration of in-depth annotated linguistic ex-amples as part of linguistic research.
Thisin turn will allow the build-up of linguis-tic resources which can be used indepen-dent of the research focus and of the the-oretical framework applied.
The tool wewould like to present is a non-expert-usersystem designed in particular for the workwith lesser documented languages.
It hasbeen used for the documentation of severalAfrican languages, and has served for twoprojects involving universities in Africa.1 IntroductionThe role that digital tools play in all fields of mod-ern linguistics can not be underestimated.
This ispartially due to the success of computational lin-guistics and its involvement in fields such as lex-icography, corpus linguistics and syntactic pars-ing, to just name some.
Most crucially howeverthis development is due to the success of IT ingeneral and in particular to the World Wide Webwhich has created new standards also for linguis-tic research.
Through the internet our perceptionof ?data?
and publication of linguistic results haschanged drastically only in a matter of a few years.Although the development of language resourcesand language technology for African languages isincreasing steadily, the digital revolution and theresources and possibilities it offers to linguisticsare mostly seized by researchers in the First Worldconnected to work centering around the key lan-guages.
For this paper we would like to con-ceive of this situation in terms of lost opportuni-ties: At present formal linguistics and linguisticresearch conducted on Third World languages aremostly undertaken with very little knowledge ofeach other and hardly any exchange of researchresults.
Likewise, language documentation, whichhas roots in language typology and computationallinguistics, only partially coincides with work inAfrican linguistics.
Yet, it is evident that thegeneral availability of linguistic material from abigger sample of languages will eventually notonly affect the way in which we think about lan-guage, but also might have an impact on linguisticmethodology and on the way we go about linguis-tic research.
If you are only a few mouse clicksaway from showing that a certain generalizationonly holds for a limited set of languages, but trulyfails to describe a given phenomenon for a widersample, statements claiming linguistic generalityhave to be phrased much more carefully.
Our per-ception of the nature of language could truly ben-efit from general access to representative multi-lingual data.
It therefore would seem a linguisticgoal in itself to (a) work towards a more general74and more straightforward access to linguistic re-sources, (b) encourage the systematic generationof linguistic data beyond what emerges from field-work and other descriptive studies and (c) advo-cate the generation of a multi-lingual data pool forlinguistic research.2 Annotation tools in linguistic researchIt is well known that the generation of natural lan-guage examples enriched by linguistic informa-tion in the form of symbols is a time consumingenterprise quite independent of the form that theraw material has and the tools that were chosen.Equally well known are problems connected tothe generation and storage of linguistic data in theform of standard document files or spread sheets(Bird and Simons 2003).
Although it is generallyagreed on that linguistic resources must be kept ina sustainable and portable format, it remains lessclear, how a tool should look that would help thelinguist to accomplish these goals.
For the individ-ual researcher it is not easy to decide which of theavailable tools serve his purpose best.
To start withit is often not clear which direction research willtake, which categories of data are needed and inwhich form the material should be organized andstored.
But perhaps even more importantly mosttools turn out to be so complex that the goal ofmastering them becomes an issue in its own right.Researchers that work together with communitiesthat speak an endangered or lesser documentedlanguage experience that digital tools used for lan-guage documentation can be technically too de-manding.Training periods for annotators becomenecessary together with technical help and main-tenance by experts which not necessarily are lin-guists themselves.
In this way tool managementdevelops into an issue in itself taking away re-sources from the original task at hand - the lin-guistic analysis.Linguists too often experience thatsome unlucky decision concerning technical toolsgets data locked in systems which cannot be ac-cessed anymore after a project, and the technicalsupport coming along with it,has run out of fund-ing.2.1 TypeCraft an overviewIn the following we would like to introduce a lin-guistic tool for text annotation called TypeCraft,which we have created through combining severalwell-understood tools of knowledge management.Needless to say, TypeCraft will not solve all theproblems mentioned above, yet it has some newfeatures that make data annotation an easier taskwhile adding discernibility and general efficiency.That one can import example sentences directlyinto research papers is one of these features.
Inaddition TypeCraft is a collaboration and knowl-edge sharing tool, and, combined with databasefunctionality, it offers some of the most importantfunctions we expect to see in a digital languagedocumentation tool.In the following we will address glossing and il-lustrate present day glossing standards with exam-ples from Akan, a Kwa language spoken in Ghana,to then turn to a more detailed description of Type-Craft.
However, a brief overview over the mainfeatures of TypeCraft seems in order at this point.TypeCraft is a relational database for naturallanguage text combined with a tabular text editorfor interlinearized glossing, wrapped into a wikiwhich is used as a collaborative tool and for on-line publication.
The system, which has at present50 users and a repository of approximately 4000annotated phrases, is still young.
Table 1 gives afirst overview of TypeCraft?s main functionalities.3 GlossingThe use of glosses in the representation of primarydata became a standard for linguistic publicationsas late as in the 1980s (Lehmann, 2004) whereinterlinear glosses for sample sentences startedto be required for all language examples exceptthose coming from English.
However, the use ofglossed examples in written research was, and stillis, not accompanied by a common understandingof its function, neither concerning its role in re-search papers nor its role in research itself.
Itseems that glosses, when occurring in publica-tions, are mostly seen as a convenience to thereader.
Quite commonly information essential tothe understanding of examples is given in sur-rounding prose, and often without any appropriatereflection in the glosses themselves.Let us look at a couple of examples with in-terlinear glosses taken at random from the listof texts containing Akan examples.
These ex-amples are taken from the online database Odinat Fresno State University.
The Odin database(http:/www.csufresno.edu/odin/) is a repository ofinterlinear glossed texts which have been extractedmainly from linguistic papers.
The database it-75Annotation Collaboration Data Migrationtabular interface for word levelglossing - automatic sentencebreak-upindividual work spaces for usersthat would like to keep data pri-vatemanual import of text and indi-vidual sentencedrop down reference list of lin-guistic symbolsdata sharing for predefinedgroups such a research collabo-rationsexport of annotated sentence to-kens (individual tokens or sets)to Microsoft Word, Open Officeand LaTEXword and morpheme deletionand insertiondata export from the TypeCraftdatabase to the TypeCraft wikiexport of XML (embeddedDTD) for further processing ofdatalazy annotation mode (sentenceparsing)access to tag sets and help pagesfrom the TypeCraft wikicustomized sets of sentencelevel tags for the annotation ofconstruction level propertiesaccess to information laid out byother annotators or projects.Table 1: Overview over TypeCraft Functionalitiesself consists of a list of URLs ordered by languageleading the user to the texts of interest.3.1 The glossing of Akan - an exampleAkan is one of the Kwa languages spoken inGhana.
The first example from the Odin database,here given as (1), comes from a paper by (Haspel-math, 2001)(1) A?ma?Amama`a`giveme`1SGs?`ka?.money?Ama gave me money.
?The second example is extracted from a paperby (Ameka, 2001):(2) A?ma?Amade`takes?`ka?moneyno?thema?a?giveme`.1SG?Ama gave me the money?
(Lit: ?Ame took money gave me?
)The third example is quoted in a manuscript by(Wunderlich, 2003):(3) O-fEmm3sg-lentme1sgne3sgPpOflnkono.horse that?He lent me a horse?and the forth one comes from a manuscript by(Drubig, 2000) who writes about focus construc-tions:(4) HenawhonaFOCAmaAmarehwehwE?is-looking-for?
?Who is it that Ama is looking for?
?Except for Ameka, the authors quote Akan ex-amples which are excerpted from the linguistic lit-erature.
Often examples coming from African lan-guages have a long citation history and their val-idation is in most cases nearly impossible.
Whenwe compare (1) ?
(4) we notice a certain incon-sistency for the annotation of no?
which is glossedas ?the?
(1), ?that?
(3) and as DEF (2) respec-tively.
This difference could indicate that Akandoes not make a lexical distinction between defi-niteness and deixis, most likely however we sim-ply observe a ?glossing figment?.
The general lackof part of speech information in all examples eas-ily leads us astray; should we for example assumethat na in example (4) is a relative pronoun?
Thegeneral lack of proper word level glossing makesthe data for other linguists quite useless, in par-ticular if they are not themselves native speakersor experts in exactly this language.Ma`a` is a pastform, but that tense marking is derived by suffixa-tion is only indicated in (2) via a hyphen betweenthe translational gloss and the PAST tag.
Like-wise rehwehwEin(4)is a progressive form, yet thelack of morpheme boundaries, and consistent an-notation prevents that these and similarly glossedserve as a general linguistic resource.
Purely trans-lational glosses might be adequate for text stringswhich serve as mere illustrations; however, for lin-guistic data,that is those examples that are (a) ei-ther crucial for the evaluation of the theoreticaldevelopxment reported on, or (b) portray linguis-tic pattern of general interest, to provide morpho-76syntactic and morpho-functional as well as part ofspeech information would seem best practice.It seems that linguists underestimate the rolethat glossing, if done properly,could play as part oflinguist research.
Symbolic rewriting and formal-grammar development are two distinct modes oflinguistic research.
Yet there is no verdict thatforces us to express descriptive generalizations ex-clusively by evoking a formal apparatus of consid-erable depth.
Instead given simplicity and parsi-mony of expression it might well be that symbolicrewriting serves better for some research purposesthan theoretical modeling.
One can not replaceone by the other.
Yet which form of linguisticrendering is the best in a given situation shouldbe a matter of methodological choice.
Essentialis that we realize that we have a choice.
Sizingthe opportunity that lies in the application of sym-bolic rewriting, of which interlinear glossing isone form, could make us realize that the genera-tion of true linguistic resources is not exclusivelya matter best left to computational linguists.4 A short description of TypeCraftTypecraft is an interlinear ?glosser?
designed forthe annotation of natural language phrases andsmall corpora.
The TypeCraft wiki serves as anaccess point to the TypeCraft database.
We usestandard wiki functionality to direct the TypeCraftuser from the index page of the TypeCraft wiki tothe TC interface of the database, called My Texts.My Texts is illustrated in Figure 1.The interfaceis taken from a user that not only possesses pri-vate data (Own texts), but who also shares datawith other users (Shared Texts).
At present shar-ing of text is a feature set by the database admin-istrator, but in the near future the user will be ableto choose from the TypeCraft user list the peo-ple with whom he wants to share his data.
Notethat data is stored as texts which consist of anno-tated tokens, standardly sentences.
?Text?
in Type-Craft does not necessarily entail coherent text, butmay also refer to any collection of individual to-kens that the user has grouped together.
A Type-Craft user can publish his data online; yet his owntexts are by default ?private?, that is, only he as theowner of the material can see the data and changeit.
To share data within the system or online is afunction that can be selected by the user.Different from Toolbox, which is a linguisticdata management system known to many African-ists, TypeCraft is a relational database and there-fore by nature has many advantages over filebased systems like Toolbox.
This concerns both,data integrity and data migration.
In additiondatabases in general offer a greater flexibility fordata search.For example, it is not only possibleto extract all serial verb constructions for all (orsome) languages known to TypeCraft, it is alsopossible to use the gloss index to find all se-rial verb constructions where a verb receives amarking specific to the second verb in an SVC.The other mayor difference between Toolbox andTypeCraft is that TypeCraft is an online systemwhich brings many advantages, but also some dis-advantages.
An online database is a multi-usersystem, that is, many people can access the samedata at the same time independent of were theyphysically are.
Distributive applications are effi-cient tools for international research collaboration.TypeCraft is designed to allow data sharing andcollaboration during the process of annotation.
Yetalthough there are many advantages to an onlinetool, to be only online is at the same time a majordisadvantage.
Not all linguists work with a stableinternet connection, and in particular for work inthe field TypeCraft is not suitable.TypeCraft uses Unicode, so that every scriptthat the user can produce on his or her PC canbe entered into the browser,1 which for Type-Craft must be Mozilla Firefox.
Different fromToolbox TypeCraft insists on a set of linguisticglosses, reflecting standards advocated for exam-ple by the Leipzig Convention distributed by theMax Planck Institute for Evaluationary Anthro-pology or an initiative such a GOLD (Farrar andLewis, 2005).Yet, TypeCraft still allows a user-driven flexibility when it comes to the extensionof the tag-set, as explained in the next section.5 Glossing with TypeCraftTypeCraft supports word-to-word glossing oneight tiers as shown in Figure 2.
After havingimported a text and run it through the sentencesplitter, a process that we will not describe here,the user can select via mouse click one of thephrases and enter the annotation mode.
The sys-tem prompts the user for the Lazy AnnotationMode (in Toolbox called sentence parsing) whichwill automatically insert (on a first choice ba-1Note however that self-defined characters or charactersthat are not Unicode will also cause problems in TypeCraft77Figure 1: My texts in TypeCraftsis) the annotation of already known words intothe annotation table.
TypeCraft distinguishes be-tween translational, functional and part-of-speechglosses.
They are visible to the annotator as dis-tinct tiers called Meaning, Gloss and POS.
Ev-ery TypeCraft phrase, which can be either a lin-guistic phrase or a sentence, is accompanied bya free translation.
In addition the specificationof construction parameters is possible.
Althoughthe user is restricted to a set of pre-defined tags,the TypeCraft glossery is negogiable.
User dis-cussion on the TCwiki, for example in the contextof project work, or by individual users, has led toan extension of the TypeCraft tag set.
AlthoughTypeCraft endorses standardization, the system isuser-driven.
Glosses are often rooted in traditionalgrammatical terminology, which we would liketo set in relation to modern linguistic terminol-ogy.
The TCwiki is an adaquate forum to discussthese traditions and to arrive at a annotation stan-dard which is supported by the users of the sys-tem.
Under annotation the user has access a drop-down menu, showing standard annotation sym-bols.
These symbols together with short explana-tions can also be accessed from the TypeCraft wikiso that they can be kept open in tabs during annota-tion.
In Figure 2 we also see the effect of ?mousingover?
symbols, which displays their ?long-names?.Some symbols have been ordered in classes.
InFigure 2 we see for example that the feature pastis a subtype of the feature Tense.
This classifica-tion will in the future also inform search.
Furtherfeatures of the annotation interface that we cannotdescribe here are the easy representation of non-Latin scripts, deletion and insertion of words andmorphemes during annotation, the accessibility ofseveral phrases under annotation and the groupingof tokens into texts.6 Data MigrationExport of data to the main text editors is one ofthe central functions of TypeCraft.
TC tokens canbe exported to Microsoft Word, OpenOffice.orgWriter and LaTeX.
This way the user can store hisdata in a database, and when the need arises, hecan integrate it into his research papers.
Althoughannotating in TypeCraft is time consuming, evenin Lazy Annotation Mode, the resusablity of datastored in TypeCraft will on the long run pay off.Export can be selected from the text editing win-dow or from the SEARCH interface.After importthe examples can still be edited in case small ajust-ments are necessery.Example (5) is an example ex-ported from TypeCraft.
(5)Omu nju hakataahamu abagyenyio`mu` nju` ha`ka`ta`a`ha`mu` a`ba`gye?ngy?`Omuinn juCL9 househa ka taah a muCL16 PST enter IND LOCa ba gyenyiIV CL2 visitorPREP N V N?In the house entered visitors?
(5) illustrates locative inversion in Runyakitara,a Bantu language spoken in Uganda.
The trans-lational and functional glosses, which belong totwo distinct tiers in the TypeCraft annotation inter-face, appear as one line when imported to one ofthe word processing programs supported by Type-78Figure 2: Glossing in TypeCratCraft.
Although glossing on several tiers is con-ceptually more appropriate, linguistic publicationsrequire a more condensed format.
As for now wehave decided on an export which displays 6 tiers.Next to export to the main editors, TypeCraft al-lows XML export which allows the exchange ofdata with other applications.
Figure 3 gives anoverview over the top 15 languages in TypeCraft.In January 2009 Lule Sami with 2497 phrasesand Runyakitara (Runyankore Rukiga)with 439phrases were the top two languages.
At presentthe database contains approximately 4000 from 30languages.Most of the smaller language (with 300t0 40 sentences) are African languages.7 ConclusionIn this paper we suggest that the general availabil-ity of richly annotated, multi-lingual data directlysuited for scientific publication could have a pos-itive impact on the way we think about language,and how we approach linguistics.
We stress theopportunity that lies in the application of sym-bolic rewriting, of which interlinear glossing isone form, and encourage the systematic generationof linguistic data beyond what emerges from field-work and other descriptive studies.
With Type-Craft we introduce an online glossing tool for tex-tual data which has two main goals (a) to allowlinguists to gloss their data without having to learnhow to install software and without having to un-dergo a long training period before the can usethe tool and (b) to make linguistically annotatedLule Sami (2497)Runyankore-Rukiga (439)Norwegian (411)Akan (314)Nyanja (192)Ganda (114)German (94)Sekpele (87)Abron (77)Bini (71)Koyraboro Senni Songhai (64)Tumbuka (64)English (60)Icelandic (56)Ga (55)Figure 3: Top 15 TypeCraft languages by numberof phrasesdata available to a bigger research community.
Wehope that the use of this tool will add to the stan-dardization of language annotation.
We furtherhope that TypeCraft will be used as a forum forlinguistic projects that draw attention to the lesser-studied languages of the World.79ReferencesFelix K. Ameka.
2001.
Multiverb constructions ina west african areal typological perspective.
InDorothee Beermann and Lars Hellan, editors, On-line Proceedings of TROSS ?
Trondheim SummerSchool 2001.Hans Bernhard Drubig.
2000.
Towards a typology offocus and focus constructions.
In Manuscript, Uni-versity of Tu?bingen, Germany.Scott Farrar and William D. Lewis.
2005.
The goldcommunity of practice: An infrastructure for lin-guistic data on the web.
In In Proceedings of theEMELD 2005 Workshop on Digital Language Doc-umentation: Linguistic Ontologies and Data Cate-gories for Language Resources.Martin Haspelmath.
2001.
Explaining the ditransi-tive person-role constraint: A usage-based approach.In Manuscript Max-Planck-Institut fu?r evolutiona?reAnthropologie.William Labov.
1987.
Some observations on the foun-dation of linguistics.
In Unpublished manuscript,University of Pennsylvania, USA.Christian Lehmann, 2004.
Morphologie: Ein Inter-nationales Handbuch zur Flexion und Wortbildung,chapter Interlinear morphological glossing.
DeGry-ter Berlin-New York.Dieter Wunderlich.
2003.
Was geschieht mit demdritten argument?
In Manuscript University ofDu?sseldorf, Germany.80
