Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 161?164,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPThe FLaReNet Thematic Network: A Global Forum for CooperationNicoletta CalzolariConsiglio Nazionale delle RicercheIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale?A.
Zampolli?nicoletta.calzolari@ilc.cnr.itClaudia SoriaConsiglio Nazionale delle RicercheIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale?A.
Zampolli?claudia.soria@ilc.cnr.itAbstractThe aim of this short paper is to present theFLaReNet Thematic Network for LanguageResources and Language Technologies to theAsian Language Resources Community.Creation of a wide and committed communityand of a shared policy in the field of LanguageResources is essential in order to foster asubstantial advancement of the field.
Thispaper presents the background, overallobjectives and methodology of work of theproject, as well as a set of preliminary results.1 IntroductionThe field of Language Resources andTechnologies has been developing for years toreach now a stable and consolidated status,attaining the right to be considered a discipline initself, and as testified by the number ofconferences and publications explicitly dedicatedto the topic.
Even if Language Resources (in thewidest sense, i.e.
spoken, written and multi-modal resources and basic related tools) have arather short history, they are nowadaysrecognized as one of the pillars of NLP.
Theavailability of adequate Language Resources foras many languages as possible is a pre-requisitefor the development of a truly multilingualInformation Society.At the same time, however, the discipline hasseen considerable fragmentation during thoseyears of fast and enthusiast development, and thelandscape is now composed by a kaleidoscope ofdifferent, often conflicting initiatives that vary asfor research directions, theoretical approaches,implementation choices, distribution and accesspolicies, languages, domain and modalitiescovered, etc.The growth of the field in the last years shouldbe now complemented by a common reflectionand by an effort that identifies synergies andovercomes fragmentation.
The consolidation ofthe area is a pre-condition to enhancecompetitiveness at EU level and worldwide.There is the need of working together to definecommon strategies and to identify priorities forthe field to advance.
Multiple concurring signsare now indicating that time is ripe forestablishing an open language infrastructure,something that many of us have been pushingsince some time and that is now increasinglyrecognized in the community at large as anecessary step for building on each otherachievements.Such an open infrastructure can only berealized if the Language Resources community iscohesive enough to be able to focus on a numberor priority targets and collectively work towardsthem, and, at the same time, whether it ispowerful enough to permeate the usercommunity, the industry, and the policy-makers.2 Why FLaReNetCreation of the necessary conditions for thedevelopment of such an infrastructure cannotrely on research activities only and even morecannot rely on the initiative of individual groups.Instead, strategic actions are crucial, such asmaking contacts with and involving all interestedparties, sensitize the policy makers andinstitutional bodies, involve associations andconsortia, disseminating widely the results ofcommon efforts.
Only by mobilizing this wideand heterogeneous panorama of actors can suchan ambitious goal be attained.FLaReNet ?
Fostering Language ResourcesNetwork ?
is a Thematic Network funded by the161European Commission under the eContentPlusframework (ECP-2007-LANG-617001) 1 .
TheFLaReNet Thematic Network was born with thespecific aim ?
as required by the EuropeanCommission itself ?
to enhance Europeancompetitiveness in the field of LanguageResources and Technologies, especially byconsolidating a common vision and fostering aEuropean strategy for the future.
A major, long-term objective ?
as well as a powerful means forcommunity creation ?
is creating the preparatoryenvironment for making an open languageinfrastructure a reality.3 ObjectivesThe objectives of FLaReNet are threefold:?
The creation and mobilization of aunified and committed community in thefield of Language Resources andTechnologies;?
The identification of a set of prioritythemes on which to stimulate action, underthe form of a roadmap for LanguageResources and Technologies;?
The elaboration of a blueprint of priorityareas for actions in the field and acoherent set of recommendations for thepolicy-makers (funding agenciesespecially), the business community andthe public at large.3.1 Creation of a communityFLaReNet has the challenging task of creating anetwork of people around the notion ofLanguage Resources and Technologies.
To thisend, FLaReNet is bringing together leadingexperts of research institutions, academies,companies, funding agencies, with the specificpurpose of creating consensus around short,medium and long-term strategic objectives.
It isof foremost importance that the FLaReNetNetwork be composed of the as widest aspossible representation of experiences, practices,research lines, industrial and political strategies;this in order to derive an overall picture of thefield of Language Resources and Technologiesthat is not limited to the European scenario, butcan also be globally inspired.
The Network iscurrently composed of around 200 individualsbelonging to academia, research institutes,industries and government.
Such a community1 http://www.flarenet.eualso needs to be constantly increased in aconcentric way that starts from the coredisciplines but gradually projects itself towards?neighboring?
ones, such as cognitive science,semantic web, etc.3.2 Identification of priority themesLanguage technologies and language resourcesare the necessary ingredients for the developmentof applications that will help bridging languagebarriers in a global single information space, in avariety of means (the Web as well ascommunication devices) and for a variety ofchannels (spoken and written language alike).
Itis of utmost importance, however, to identifypriorities as well as short, medium, and long-term strategic objectives in order to avoidscattered or conflicting efforts.The major players in the field of LanguageResources and Technologies need toconsensually work together and indicate a cleardirection and priorities for the next years.3.3 Elaboration of a blueprint of actionsHowever, whatever action cannot beimplemented on a long term without the help ofthe necessary financial and political frameworkto sustain them.
This is even most true foractions regarding Language Resources thattypically imply a sustained effort at nationallevel.
To this end, the FLaReNet Network mustpropose the priority themes under the form ofconsensual recommendations and a plan ofaction for EC Member States, other European-wide decision makers, companies, as well asnon-EU and International organizations.FLaReNet goals are very ambitious and itsobjectives are to be seen in a more globalframework.
Although they are shaped by theEuropean landscape of the field of LR&T, itsmission is therefore inherently cross-boundary:in order to attain such goals getting a global viewis fundamental.To this end, it is important that FLaReNet isknown by the Asian community, and it knowsthe Asian community.
Some Asian communityplayers are already members of the Network.4 How FLaReNet worksWork in FLaReNet is inherently collaborative.Its means are the following:?
Working groups?
Organization of workshops and meetings162?
External liaisons4.1 Working GroupsWorking Groups are intended as ?think-tanks?
ofexperts (researchers and users) who jointlyreflect on selected topics and come up withconclusions and recommendations.
The WorkingGroups are clustered in thematic areas and carryout their activities through workshops, meetings,and via a collaborative Wiki platform.
TheFLaReNet Thematic Areas are:?
The Chart for the area of LanguageResources and Technologies in itsdifferent dimensions?
Methods and models for LanguageResource building, reuse, interlinking,maintenance, sharing, and distribution?
Harmonization of formats and standards?
Definition of evaluation and validationprotocols and procedures?
Methods for the automatic constructionand processing of Language Resources.4.2 Organization of workshops andmeetingsMeetings and events lie at the core of FLaReNetaction plan and dissemination strategies.
Theycan either be specifically oriented to thedissemination of results and recommendations(content-pushing events) or, rather, to theirelicitation (content-pulling events).
Three typesof meetings are envisaged:?
Annual Workshops, such as the?European Language Resources andTechnologies Forum?
held in Vienna,February 2009?
Thematic Workshops related to the workof Working Groups?
Liaison meetings (e.g.
those with NSF-SILT, CLARIN, ISO and other projects asthe need may arise).Annual workshops are targeted to gather thebroad FLaReNet community together.
They areconceived as big events, and they aim atbecoming major events in the LanguageResources and Technology community of thekind able to attract a considerable audience.Given the success of the formula exploited forthe FLaReNet ?Vienna Event?2, it is likely thatAnnual workshops will be organized along thesame lines.
However, this type of event cannotbe repeated on a frequent schedule.
At the sametime, more focused events centered on specifictopics and with extensive time allocated fordiscussion are essential.To this end, Annual Workshops will becomplemented by many Thematic workshops,i.e.
more focused, dedicated meetings with amore restricted audience.
These are directlylinked to the work being carried out by thevarious Working Groups and are organized in ade-centralized manner, by direct initiative of theWorking Group or Work package Leaders.
In anattempt to increase FLaReNet sensitivity to hotissues, selection of topics and issues to beaddressed will be also based on a bottom-upapproach: FLaReNet members and subscribersare invited to submit topics of interest eitherfreely or as a consequence of ?Call for topics?related to particular events.Finally, liaison meetings are those elicited byFLaReNet to make contact and create synergieswith national and international projects that arepartially overlapping with FLaReNet in eithertheir objectives or the target audience.
Examplesof these are the FLaReNet-CLARIN and theFLaReNet-SILT liaison meetings.4.3 External liaisonsFor a Network like FLaReNet, whose aim is thedevelopment of strategies and recommendationsfor the field of Language Resources andTechnologies, coordination of actions at aworldwide level is of utmost importance.
To thisend, FLaReNet is planning to establish contactsand liaisons with national and internationalassociations and consortia, such as LDC, ISO,ALTA, AFNLP, W3C, TEI, COCOSDA,Oriental-COCOSDA.
Specific actions of thiskind have started already, such as theInternational Cooperation Round Table that tookplace in Vienna.
The members of theInternational Cooperation Round Table will formthe initial nucleus of the FLaReNet InternationalAdvisory Board.5 First results and recommendationsMore than a hundred players worldwide gatheredat the latest FLaReNet Vienna Forum, with the2 http://www.flarenet.eu/?q=Vienna09, see the EventProgram to get an idea of the event structure.163specific purpose of setting up a brainstormingforce to make emerge the technological, marketand policy challenges to be faced in amultilingual digital Europe.Over a two-day programme, the participants tothe Forum had the opportunity to start assessingthe current conditions of the LR&T field and topropose emerging directions of intervention.Some messages recurred repeatedly across thevarious sessions, as a sign both of a greatconvergence around these ideas and also of theirrelevance in the field.
A clear set of prioritiesthus emerged for fostering the field of LanguageResources and Language Technology.Language Resource Creation.
The effortrequired to build all needed language resourcesand common tools should impose on all players astrong cooperation at the international level andthe community should define how to enhancecurrent coordination of language resourcecollection between all involved agencies andensure efficiency (e.g.
through interoperability).With data-driven methods dominating thecurrent paradigms, language resource building,annotation, cataloguing, accessibility,availability is what the research community iscalling for.
Major institutional translationservices, holding large volumes of useful data,seem to be ready to share their data andFLaReNet could possibly play a facilitating role.More efforts should be devoted to solve how toautomate the production of the large quantity ofresources demanded, and of enough quality toget acceptable results in industrial environments.Standards and Interoperability.
In the longterm, interoperability will be the cornerstone of aglobal network of language processingcapabilities.
The time and circumstances are ripeto take a broad and forward-looking view inorder to establish and implement the standardsand technologies necessary to ensure languageresource interoperability in the future.
This canonly be achieved through a coordinated,community-wide effort that will ensure bothcomprehensive coverage and widespreadacceptance.Coordination of Language TechnologyEvaluation.
Looking at the way forward, itclearly appears that language technologyevaluation needs coordination at internationallevel: in order to ensure the link betweentechnologies and applications, betweenevaluation campaigns and projects, in order toconduct evaluation campaigns (for ensuringsynchrony or for addressing the influence of acomponent on a system on the same data), inorder to produce language resources fromlanguage technology evaluation, or to port analready evaluated language technology to otherlanguages (best practices, tools, metrics,protocols?
), in order to avoid ?reinventing thewheel?, while being very cautious that there arelanguage and cultural specificities which have tobe taken into account (tone languages, orallanguages with no writing system, etc).Availability of Resources, Tools andInformation.
Infrastructure building seems to beone of the main messages for FLaReNet.
For anew worldwide language infrastructure the issueof access to Language Resources andTechnologies is a critical one that should involve?
and have impact on ?
all the community.
Thereis the need to create the means to plug togetherdifferent Language Resources & LanguageTechnologies, in an internet-based resource andtechnology grid, with the possibility to easilycreate new workflows.
Related to this isopenness and availability of information.
Therelated issues of access rights and IPR also callfor cooperation.6 Join FLaReNetIn order to constantly increase the community ofpeople involved in FLaReNet, as well as toensure their commitment to the objectives of theNetwork, a recruiting campaign is always open.People wishing to join the Network can do so byfilling an appropriate web form available on theFLaReNet web site.
The FLaReNet Network isopen to participation by public and private,research and industrial organizations.7 ConclusionsThe field of Language Resources andTechnologies needs a strong and coherentinternational cooperation policy to become morecompetitive and play a leading role globally.
It iscrucial to discuss future policies and prioritiesfor the field of Language Resources andTechnologies ?
as in the mission of FLaReNet ?not only on the European scene, but also in aworldwide context.
Cooperation is an issue thatneeds to be prepared.
FLaReNet may becomeone of the privileged places where these ?
andfuture ?
initiatives get together to discuss andpromote collaboration actions.164
