Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technologies for African Languages ?
AfLaT 2009, pages 66?73,Athens, Greece, 31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsSetswana Tokenisation and Computational Verb Morphology: Facingthe Challenge of a Disjunctive OrthographyRigardt PretoriusSchool of LanguagesNorth-West UniversityPotchefstroom, South AfricaRigardt.Pretorius@nwu.ac.zaAnsu BergSchool of LanguagesNorth-West UniversityPotchefstroom, South AfricaAnsu.Berg@nwu.ac.zaLaurette PretoriusSchool of ComputingUniversity of South AfricaandMeraka Institute, CSIRPretoria, South Africapretol@unisa.ac.zaBiffie ViljoenSchool of ComputingUniversity of South AfricaPretoria, South Africaviljoe@unisa.ac.zaAbstractSetswana, a Bantu language in the Sothogroup, is one of the eleven official languagesof South Africa.
The language is character-ised by a disjunctive orthography, mainly af-fecting the important word category of verbs.In particular, verbal prefixal morphemes areusually written disjunctively, while suffixalmorphemes follow a conjunctive writingstyle.
Therefore, Setswana tokenisation can-not be based solely on whitespace, as is thecase in many alphabetic, segmented lan-guages, including the conjunctively writtenNguni group of South African Bantu lan-guages.
This paper shows how a combinationof two tokeniser transducers and a finite-state(rule-based) morphological analyser may becombined to effectively solve the Setswanatokenisation problem.
The approach has theimportant advantage of bringing the process-ing of Setswana beyond the morphologicalanalysis level in line with what is appropriatefor the Nguni languages.
This means that thechallenge of the disjunctive orthography ismet at the tokenisation/morphological analy-sis level and does not in principle propagateto subsequent levels of analysis such as POStagging and shallow parsing, etc.
Indeed, theapproach ensures that an aspect such as or-thography does not obfuscate sound linguis-tics and, ultimately, proper semantic analysis,which remains the ultimate aim of linguisticanalysis and therefore also computational lin-guistic analysis.1 IntroductionWords, syntactic groups, clauses, sentences,paragraphs, etc.
usually form the basis of theanalysis and processing of natural language text.However, texts in electronic form are just se-quences of characters, including letters of thealphabet, numbers, punctuation, special symbols,whitespace, etc.
The identification of word andsentence boundaries is therefore essential for anyfurther processing of an electronic text.
Tokeni-sation or word segmentation may be defined asthe process of breaking up the sequence of char-acters in a text at the word boundaries (see, forexample, Palmer, 2000).
Tokenisation may there-fore be regarded as a core technology in naturallanguage processing.Since disjunctive orthography is our focus, wedistinguish between an orthographic word, that isa unit of text bounded by whitespace, but notcontaining whitespace, and a linguistic word, thatis a sequence of orthographic words that togetherfunctions as a member of a word category suchas, for example, nouns, pronouns, verbs and ad-verbs (Kosch, 2006).
Therefore, tokenisationmay also be described as the process of identify-ing linguistic words, henceforth referred to astokens.While the Bantu languages are all agglutina-tive and exhibit significant inherent structuralsimilarity, they differ substantially in terms oftheir orthography.
The reasons for this differenceare both historical and phonological.
A detailed66discussion of this aspect falls outside the scopeof this article, but the interested reader is referredto Cole (1955), Van Wyk (1958 & 1967) andKr?ger (2006).Setswana, Northern Sotho and Southern Sothoform the Sotho group belonging to the South-Eastern zone of Bantu languages.
These lan-guages are characterised by a disjunctive (alsoreferred to as semi-conjunctive) orthography,affecting mainly the word category of verbs(Kr?ger, 2006:12-28).
In particular, verbal pre-fixal morphemes are usually written disjunc-tively, while suffixal morphemes follow a con-junctive writing style.
For this reason Setswanatokenisation cannot be based solely onwhitespace, as is the case in many alphabetic,segmented languages, including the conjunc-tively written Nguni group of South AfricanBantu languages, which includes Zulu, Xhosa,Swati and Ndebele.The following research question arises: Canthe development and application of a precise to-keniser and morphological analyser for Setswanaresolve the issue of disjunctive orthography?
Ifso, subsequent levels of processing could exploitthe inherent structural similarities between theBantu languages (Dixon and Aikhenvald,2002:8) and allow a uniform approach.The structure of the paper is as follows: Theintroduction states and contextualises the re-search question.
The following section discussestokenisation in the context of the South AfricanBantu languages.
Since the morphological struc-ture of the Setswana verb is central to the tokeni-sation problem, the next section comprises abrief exposition thereof.
The paper then proceedsto discuss the finite-state computational approachthat is followed.
This entails the combination oftwo tokeniser transducers and a finite-state (rule-based) morphological analyser.
The penultimatesection concerns a discussion of the computa-tional results and insights gained.
Possibilitiesfor future work conclude the paper.2 TokenisationTokenisation for alphabetic, segmented lan-guages such as English is considered a relativelysimple process where linguistic words are usu-ally delimited by whitespace and punctuation.This task is effectively handled by means ofregular expression scripts.
Mikeev (2003) how-ever warns that ?errors made at such an earlystage are very likely to induce more errors atlater stages of text processing and are thereforevery dangerous.?
The importance of accuratetokenisation is also emphasised by Forst andKaplan (2006).
While Setswana is also an alpha-betic segmented language, its disjunctive orthog-raphy causes token internal whitespace in anumber of constructions of which the verb is themost important and widely occurring.
Since thestandard tokenisation issues of languages such asEnglish have been extensively discussed (Far-ghaly, 2003; Mikeev, 2003; Palmer, 2000), ourfocus is on the challenge of Setswana verb to-kenisation specifically.
We illustrate this bymeans of two examples:Example 1: In the English sentence ?I shall buymeat?
the four tokens (separated by ?/?)
are I /shall / buy / meat.
However, in the Setswanasentence Ke tla reka nama (I shall buy meat) thetwo tokens are Ke tla reka / nama.Example 2: Improper tokenisation may distortcorpus linguistic conclusions and statistics.
In astudy on corpus design for Setswana lexicogra-phy Otlogetswe (2007) claims that a is the mostfrequent ?word?
in his 1.3 million ?words?Setswana corpus (Otlogetswe, 2007:125).
In re-ality, the orthographic word a in Setswana couldbe any of several linguistic words or morphemes.Compare the following:A/ o itse/ rre/ yo/?
(Do you know this gentle-man?)
Interrogative particle;Re bone/ makau/ a/ maabane/.
(We saw theseyoung men yesterday.)
Demonstrative pronoun;Metsi/ a/ bollo/.
(The water is hot.)
Descriptivecopulative;Madi/ a/ rona/ a/ mo/ bankeng/.
(Our money(the money of us) is in the bank.)
Possessiveparticle and descriptive copulative;Mosadi/ a ba bitsa/.
(The woman (then) calledthem.)
Subject agreement morpheme;Dintswa/ ga di a re bona/.
(The dogs did not seeus.)
Negative morpheme, which is concomitantwith the negative morpheme ga when the nega-tive of the perfect is indicated, thus an exampleof a separated dependency.In the six occurrences of a above only fourrepresent orthographic words that should formpart of a word frequency count for a.The above examples emphasise the impor-tance of correct tokenisation of corpora, particu-larly in the light of the increased exploitation ofelectronic corpora for linguistic and lexico-graphic research.
In particular, the correct to-kenisation of verbs in disjunctively written lan-guages is crucial for all reliable and accuratecorpus-based research.
Hurskeinen et al(2005:450) confirm this by stating that ?a care-67fully designed tokeniser is a prerequisite foridentifying verb structure in text?.3 Morphological Structure of the Verbin SetswanaA complete exposition of Setswana verb mor-phology falls outside the scope of this article (seeKr?ger, 2006).
Main aspects of interest arebriefly introduced and illustrated by means ofexamples.The most basic form of the verb in Setswanaconsists of an infinitive prefix + a root + a verb-final suffix, for example, go bona (to see) con-sists of the infinitive prefix go, the root bon- andthe verb-final suffix -a.While verbs in Setswana may also includevarious other prefixes and suffixes, the root al-ways forms the lexical core of a word.
Kr?ger(2006:36) describes the root as ?a lexical mor-pheme [that] can be defined as that part of aword which does not include a grammaticalmorpheme; cannot occur independently as in thecase with words; constitutes the lexical meaningof a word and belongs quantitatively to an openclass?.3.1 Prefixes of the Setswana verbThe verbal root can be preceded by several pre-fixes (cf.
Kr?ger (2006:171-183):Subject agreement morphemes: The subjectagreement morphemes, written disjunctively,include non-consecutive subject agreement mor-phemes and consecutive subject agreement mor-phemes.
This is the only modal distinction thatinfluences the form of the subject morpheme.The same subject agreement morpheme thereforehas a consecutive as well as a non-consecutiveform.
For example, the non-consecutive subjectagreement morpheme for class 5 is le as in lekaule a tshega (the young man is laughing), whilethe consecutive subject agreement morpheme forclass 5 is la as in lekau la tshega (the young manthen laughed).Object agreement morphemes: The objectagreement morpheme is written disjunctively inmost instances, for example ba di bona (they seeit).The reflexive morpheme: The reflexive mor-pheme i- (-self) is always written conjunctivelyto the root, for example o ipona (he sees him-self).The aspectual morphemes: The aspectualmorphemes are written disjunctively and includethe present tense morpheme a, the progressivemorpheme sa (still) and the potential morphemeka (can).
Examples are o a araba (he answers),ba sa ithuta (they are still learning) and ba kaithuta (they can learn).The temporal morpheme: The temporalmorpheme tla (indicating the future tense) iswritten disjunctively, for example ba tla ithuta(they shall learn).The negative morphemes ga, sa and se: Thenegative morphemes ga, sa and se are writtendisjunctively.
Examples are ga ba ithute (theydo not learn), re sa mo thuse (we do not helphim), o se mo rome (do not send him).3.2 Suffixes of the Setswana verbVarious morphemes may be suffixed to theverbal root and follow the conjunctive writingstyle:Verb-final morphemes: Verbal-final suffixesa, e, the relative -ng and the imperative ?ng, forexample, ga ba ithute (they are not learning).The causative suffix -is-: Example, o rekisa(he sells (he causes to buy)).The applicative suffix -el-: Example, o balela(she reads for).The reciprocal suffix -an-: Example, re athusana (we help each other).The perfect suffix -il-: Example, ba utlwile(they heard).The passive suffix -w-: Example, o romiwa(he is sent).3.3 Auxiliary verbs and copulativesKr?ger (2006:273) states that ?Syntactically anauxiliary verb is a verb which must be followedby a complementary predicate, which can be averb or verbal group or a copulative group or anauxiliary verbal group, because it cannot func-tion in isolation?.
Consider the following exam-ple of the auxiliary verb tlhola:  re tlhola/ re bathusa/ (we always help them).
For a more de-tailed discussion of auxiliary verbs in Setswanarefer to Pretorius (1997).Copulatives function as introductory membersto non-verbal complements.
The morphologicalforms of copula are determined by the copulativerelation and the type of modal category in whichthey occur.
These factors give rise to a large va-riety of morphological forms (Kr?ger, 2006:275-281).3.4 Formation of verbsThe formation of Setswana verbs is governed bya set of linguistic rules according to which thevarious prefixes and suffixes may be sequenced68to form valid verb forms (so-called morhotactics)and by a set of morphophonological alternationrules that model the sound changes that occur atmorpheme boundaries.
These formation rulesconstitute a model of Setswana morphology thatforms the basis of the finite-state morphologicalanalyser, discussed in subsequent sections.This model, supported by a complete set ofknown, attested Setswana roots, may be used torecognise valid words, including verbs.
It willnot recognise either incorrectly formed or partialstrings as words.
The significance of this for to-kenisation specifically is that, in principle, themodel and therefore also the morphological ana-lyser based on it can and should recognise only(valid) tokens.Morphotactics: While verbs may be analysedlinearly or hierarchically, our computationalanalysis follows the former approach, for exam-ple:ba a kwala (they write)Verb(INDmode),(PREStense,Pos):AgrSubj-Cl2+AspPre + [kwal]+Termo tla reka (he will buy)Verb(INDmode),(FUTtense,Pos):AgrSubj-Cl1+TmpPre+[rek]+Termke dirile (I have worked)Verb(INDmode),(PERFtense,Pos):AgrSubj-1P-Sg+[dir]+Perf+TermThe above analyses indicate the part-of-speech(verb), the mode ( indicative) and the tense (pre-sent, future or perfect), followed by a ?:?
and thenthe morphological analyses.
The tags are chosento be self-explanatory and the verb root appearsin square brackets.
For example the first analysisis ba: subject agreement class 2; a: aspectualprefix; kwal: verb root; a: verb terminative (verb-final suffix).
The notation used in the presenta-tion of the morphological analyses is user-defined.In linear analyses the prefixes and suffixeshave a specific sequencing with regard to theverbal root.
We illustrate this by means of anumber of examples.
A detailed exposition of therules governing the order and valid combinationsof the various prefixes and suffixes may be foundin Kr?ger (2006).Object agreement morphemes and the reflex-ive morpheme always appear directly in front ofthe verbal root, for example le a di reka (he buysit).
No other prefix can be placed between theobject agreement morpheme and the verbal rootor between the reflexive morpheme and the ver-bal root.The position of the negative morpheme ga isalways directly in front of the subject agreementmorpheme, for example, ga ke di b?ne.
(I do notsee it/them).The negative morpheme sa follows the subjectagreement morpheme, for example, (fa) le sadire ((while) he is not working).The negative morpheme se also follows thesubject agreement morpheme, for example,(gore) re se di je ((so that) we do not eat it).However, if the verb is in the imperative moodthe negative morpheme se is used before the ver-bal root, for example, Se kwale!
(Do not write!
).The aspectual morphemes always follow thesubject agreement morpheme, for example, ba sadira (they are still working).The temporal morpheme also follows the sub-ject agreement morpheme, for example, ba tladira (they shall work).Due to the agglutinating nature of the lan-guage and the presence of long distance depend-encies, the combinatorial complexity of possiblemorpheme combinations makes the identificationof the underlying verb rather difficult.
Examplesof rules that assist in limiting possible combina-tions are as follows:The object agreement morpheme is a prefixthat can be used simultaneously with the otherprefixes in the verb, for example, ba a di bona(they see it/them).The aspectual morphemes and the temporalmorpheme cannot be used simultaneously, forexample, le ka ithuta (he can learn) and le tlaithuta (he will learn).Since (combinations of) suffixes are writtenconjunctively, they do not add to the complexityof the disjunctive writing style prevalent in verbtokenisation.Morphophonological alternation rules:Sound changes can occur when morphemes areaffixed to the verbal root.The prefixes: The object agreement mor-pheme of the first person singular ni/n in combi-nation with the root causes a sound change andthis combination is written conjunctively, forexample ba ni-bon-a > ba mpona (they see me).In some instances the object agreement mor-pheme of the third person singular and class 1causes sound changes when used with verbalroots beginning with b-.
They are then writtenconjunctively, for example, ba mo-bon-a > bammona (they see him).When the subject agreement morpheme ke(the first person singular) and the progressivemorpheme ka are used in the same verb, thesound change ke ka > nka appears, for example,ke ka opela > nka opela (I can sing).69The suffixes: Sound changes also occur undercertain circumstances, but do not affect the con-junctive writing style.Summarising, the processing of electronicSetswana text requires precise tokenisation; thedisjunctive writing style followed for verb con-structions renders tokenisation on whitespaceinappropriate; morphological structure is crucialin identifying valid verbs in text;  due to theregularity of word formation, linguistic rules(morphotactics and morphophonological alterna-tion rules) suggest a rule-based model ofSetswana morphology that may form the basis ofa tokeniser transducer, and together with an ex-tensive word root lexicon, also the basis for arule-based morphological analyser.
Since theBantu languages exhibit similar linguistic struc-ture, differences in orthography should be ad-dressed at tokenisation / morphological analysislevel so that subsequent levels of computational(syntactic and semantic) analysis may benefitoptimally from prevalent structural similarities.4 Facing the Computational ChallengeApart from tokenisation, computational morpho-logical analysis is regarded as central to theprocessing of the (agglutinating) South AfricanBantu languages (Bosch & Pretorius, 2002, Pre-torius & Bosch, 2003).
Moreover, standards andstandardisation are pertinent to the developmentof appropriate software tools and language re-sources (Van Rooy & Pretorius, 2003), particu-larly for languages that are similar in structure.While such standardisation is an ideal worthstriving for, it remains difficult to attain.
Indeed,the non-standard writing styles pose a definitechallenge.4.1 Other approaches to Bantu tokenisationTaljard and Bosch (2005) advocate an ap-proach to word class identification that makes nomention of tokenisation as a central issue in theprocessing of Northern Sotho and Zulu text.
ForNorthern Sotho they propose a hybrid system(consisting of a tagger, a morphological analyserand a grammar) ?containing information on bothmorphological and syntactic aspects, althoughbiased towards morphology.
This approach isdictated at least in part, by the disjunctivemethod of writing.?
In contrast, Hurskainen et al(2005) in their work on the computational de-scription of verbs of Kwanjama and NorthernSotho, concludes that ?a carefully designed to-keniser is a prerequisite for identifying verbstructures in text?.
Anderson and Kotz?
(2006)concur that in their development of a NorthernSotho morphological analyser ?it became obvi-ous that tokenisation was a problem that neededto be overcome for the Northern Sotho languageas distinct from the ongoing morphological andmorpho-phonological analysis?.4.2 Our approachOur underlying assumption is that the Bantu lan-guages are structurally very closely related.
Ourcontention is that precise tokenisation will resultin comparable morphological analyses, and thatthe similarities and structural agreement betweenSetswana and languages such as Zulu will pre-vail at subsequent levels of syntactic analysis,which could and should then also be computa-tionally exploited.Our approach is based on the novel combina-tion of two tokeniser transducers and a morpho-logical analyser for Setswana.4.3 Morphological analyserThe finite-state morphological analyser prototypefor Setswana, developed with the Xerox finitestate toolkit (Beesley and Karttunen, 2003), im-plements Setswana morpheme sequencing (mor-photactics) by means of a lexc script containingcascades of so-called lexicons, each ofwhich represents a specific type of prefix, suffixor root.
Sound changes at morpheme boundaries(morphophonological alternation rules) are im-plemented by means of xfst regular expressions.These lexc and xfst scripts are then compiled andsubsequently composed into a single finite statetransducer, constituting the morphological ana-lyser (Pretorius et al, 2005 and 2008).
While theimplementation of the morphotactics and alterna-tion rules is, in principle, complete, the word rootlexicons still need to be extended to include allknown and valid Setswana roots.
The verb mor-phology is based on the assumption that validverb structures are disjunctively written.
For ex-ample, the verb token re tla dula (we willsit/stay) is analysed as follows:Verb(INDmode),(FUTtense,Pos): AgrSubj-1p-Pl+TmpPre+[dul]+TermorVerb(PARmode),(FUTtense,Pos): AgrSubj-1p-Pl+TmpPre+[dul]+TermBoth modes, indicative and participial, consti-tute valid analyses.
The occurrence of multiplevalid morphological analyses is typical andwould require (context dependent) disambigua-tion at subsequent levels of processing.704.4 TokeniserSince the focus is on verb constructions, theSetswana tokeniser prototype makes provisionfor punctuation and alphabetic text, but not yetfor the usual non-alphabetic tokens such as dates,numbers, hyphenation, abbreviations, etc.
Agrammar for linguistically valid verb construc-tions is implemented with xfst regular expres-sions.
By way of illustration we show a fragmentthereof, where SP represents a single blank char-acter, WS is general whitespace and SYMBOL ispunctuation.
In the fragment of xfst below ?...
?indicates that other options have been removedfor conciseness and is not strict xfst syntax :define WORD [Char]+[SP | SYMBOL];define WORDwithVERBEnding [Char]+[a | e| n g] [SP | SYMBOL];echo >>> define object concordsdefine OBJ [g o | r e | l o | l e | m o| b a | o | e | a | s e | d i | b o]WS+;echo >>> define subject concordsdefine SUBJ [k e | o | r e | l o | l e |a | b a | e | s e | d i | b o | g o]WS+;echo >>> define verb prefixesecho >>> define indicative modedefine INDPREF [(g a WS+) SUBJ ([a | s a] WS+) ([a | k a | s a] WS+) (t l a WS+)(OBJ)];define VPREF [...| INDPREF | ...];echo >>> define verb groupsdefine VGROUP [VPREF WORDwithVERBEnd-ing];echo >>> define tokensdefine Token [VGROUP | WORD | ...];Finally, whitespace is normalised to a singleblank character and the right-arrow, right-to-left,longest match rule for verb tokens is built on thetemplateA ->@ B || L _ R;where A, B, L and R are regular expressions de-noting languages, and L and R are optional(Beesley and Karttunen, 2003:174).We note that (i) it may happen that a longestmatch does not constitute a valid verb construct;(ii) the right-to-left strategy is appropriate sincethe verb root and suffixes are written conjunc-tively and therefore should not be individuallyidentified at the tokenisation stage while disjunc-tively written prefixes need to be recognised.The two aspects that need further clarificationare (i) How do we determine whether a mor-pheme sequence is valid?
(ii) How do we recog-nise disjunctively written prefixes?
Both thesequestions are discussed in the subsequent sec-tion.4.5 MethodologyOur methodology is based on a combination ofa comprehensive and reliable morphological ana-lyser for Setswana catering for disjunctivelywritten verb constructions (see section 5.3), averb tokeniser transducer (see section 5.4) and atokeniser transducer that tokenises onwhitespace.
The process is illustrated in Figure 1.Central to our approach is the assumption thatonly analysed tokens are valid tokens and stringsthat could not be analysed are not valid linguisticwords.Analysed strings, typically verbs              Unanalysed stringsAnalysed strings, typicallyother word categoriesUnanalysed stringsFigure 1: Tokenisation procedureTokenisation procedure:Step 1: Normalise test data (running text) by re-moving capitalisation and punctuation;Step 2: Tokenise on longest match right-to-left;Step 3: Perform a morphological analysis of the?tokens?
from step 2;Step 4: Separate the tokens that were successfullyanalysed in step 3 from those that could not be ana-lysed;Step 5: Tokenise all unanalysed ?tokens?
from step4 on whitespace;[Example: unanalysed wa me becomes wa and me.
]Step 6: Perform a morphological analysis of the?tokens?
in step 5;Step 7: Again, as in step 4, separate the analysedand unanalysed strings resulting from step 6;Step 8: Combine all the valid tokens from steps 4and 7.This procedure yields the tokens obtained bycomputational means.
Errors are typically stringsthat could not be analysed by the morphologicalanalyser and should be rare.
These strings shouldbe subjected to human elicitation.
Finally a com-parison of the correspondences and differencesNormalise running textVerb Tokeniser yieldinglongest matchesMorphological AnalyserWhitespace  Tokeniseryielding orthographicwordsMorphological AnalyserTokensErrors71between the hand-tokenised tokens (hand-tokens)and the tokens obtained by computational means(auto-tokens) is necessary in order to assess thereliability of the described tokenisation approach.The test data: Since the purpose was to estab-lish the validity of the tokenisation approach, wemade use of a short Setswana text of 547 ortho-graphic words, containing a variety of verb con-structions (see Table 1).
The text was tokenisedby hand and checked by a linguist in order toprovide a means to measure the success of thetokenisation approach.
Furthermore, the text wasnormalised not to contain capitalisation andpunctuation.
All word roots occurring in the textwere added to the root lexicon of the morpho-logical analyser to ensure that limitations in theanalyser would not influence the tokenisationexperiment.Examples of output of step 2:ke tla nnao tla go kopale ditsebeExamples of output of step 3:Based on the morphological analysis, the firsttwo of the above longest matches are tokens andthe third is not.
The relevant analyses are:ke tla nnaVerb(INDmode), (FUTtense,Pos): AgrSubj-1p-Sg+TmpPre+[nn]+Termo tla go kopaVerb(INDmode), (FUTtense,Pos): AgrSubj-Cl1+TmpPre+AgrObj-2p-Sg+[kop]+TermExamples of output of step 5:le, ditsebeExamples of output of step 6:leCopVerb(Descr), (INDmode), (FUT-tense,Neg): AgrSubj-Cl5ditsebeNPre10+[tsebe]5 Results and DiscussionThe results of the tokenisation procedure ap-plied to the test data, is summarised in Tables 1and 2.Token length(in orthographic words)Test data Correctlytokenised2 84 683 25 254 2 2Table 1.
Verb constructionsTable 1 shows that 111 of the 409 tokens inthe test data consist of more than one ortho-graphic word (i.e.
verb constructions) of which95 are correctly tokenised.
Moreover, it suggeststhat the tokenisation improves with the length ofthe tokens.Tokens TypesHand-tokens, H  409 208Auto-tokens, A 412 202H ?
A 383 (93.6%) 193 (92.8%)A \ H 29 9H \ A 26 15Precision, P 0.93 0.96Recall, R 0.94 0.93F-score, 2PR/(P+R) 0.93 0.94Table 2.
Tokenisation resultsThe F-score of 0.93 in Table 2 may be consid-ered a promising result, given that it was ob-tained on the most challenging aspect ofSetswana tokenisation.
The approach scales welland may form the basis for a full scale, broadcoverage tokeniser for Setswana.
A limiting fac-tor is the as yet incomplete root lexicon of themorphological analyser.
However, this may beaddressed by making use of a guesser variant ofthe morphological analyser that contains conso-nant/vowel patterns for phonologically possibleroots to cater for absent roots.It should be noted that the procedure presentedin this paper yields correctly tokenised and mor-phologically analysed linguistic words, ready forsubsequent levels of parsing.We identify two issues that warrant future in-vestigation:?
Longest matches that allow morphologi-cal analysis, but do not constitute tokens.Examples are ba ba neng, e e siameng ando o fetileng.
In these instances the tokenis-er did not recognise the qualificative par-ticle.
The tokenisation should have beenba/ ba neng, e/ e siameng and o/ o fetileng.?
Longest matches that do not allow mor-phological analysis and are directly splitup into single orthographic words insteadof allowing verb constructions of interme-diate length.
An example is e le monna,which was finally tokenised as e/ le/ mon-na instead of e le/ monna.Finally, perfect tokenisation is context sensi-tive.
The string ke tsala should have been toke-nised as ke/ tsala (noun), and not as the verbconstruction ke tsala.
In another context it canhowever be a verb with tsal- as the verb root.In conclusion, we have successfully demon-strated that the novel combination of a precisetokeniser and morphological analyser for72Setswana could indeed form the basis for resolv-ing the issue of disjunctive orthography.6 Future work?
The extension of the morphological ana-lyser to include complete coverage of theso-called closed word categories, as wellas comprehensive noun and verb root lexi-cons;?
The refinement of the verb tokeniser tocater for a more extensive grammar ofSetswana verb constructions and more so-phisticated ways of reducing the length ofinvalid longest right-to-left matches;?
The application of the procedure to largetext corpora.AcknowledgementsThis material is based upon work supported bythe South African National Research Foundationunder grant number 2053403.
Any opinion, find-ings and conclusions or recommendations ex-pressed in this material are those of the authorsand do not necessarily reflect the views of theNational Research Foundation.ReferencesAnderson, W.N.
and Kotz?, P.M. Finite state tokeni-sation of an orthographical disjunctive agglutina-tive language: The verbal segment of Northern So-tho.
In Proceedings of the 5th International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evalution,Genoa, Italy, May 22-28, 2006.Bosch, S.E.
and Pretorius, L.  2002.
The significanceof computational morphology for Zulu lexicogra-phy.
South African Journal of African Languages,22(1):11-20.Cole, D.T.
1955.
An Introduction to Tswana Gram-mar.
Longman, Cape Town, South Africa.Dixon, R.M.W.
and Aikhenvald, A.Y.
2002.
Word: ACross-linguistic Typology.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, UK.Forst, M. and Kaplan, R.M.
2006.
The importance ofprecise tokenization for deep grammars.
In Pro-ceedings of the 5th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evalution, Genoa, Italy,May 22-28, 2006.Hurskeinen, A.,  Louwrens, L. and Poulos, G.  2005Computational description of verbs in disjoiningwriting systems.
Nordic Journal of African Stud-ies, 14(4): 438-451.Kosch, I.M.
2006.
Topics in Morphology in the Afri-can Language Context.
Unisa Press, Pretoria,South Africa.Kr?ger, C.J.H.
2006.
Introduction to the Morphologyof Setswana.
Lincom Europe, M?nchen, Germany.Megerdoomian, K. 2003.
Text mining, corpus build-ing and testing.
In Handbook for Language Engi-neers, Farghaly, A.
(Ed.).
CSLI Publications, Cali-fornia, USA.Mikheev, A.
2003.
Text segmentation.
In The OxfordHandbook of Computational Linguistics, Mitkov,R.
(Ed.)
Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK.Otlogetswe, T.J.  2007.
Corpus Design for SetswanaLexicography.
PhD thesis.
University of Pretoria,Pretoria, South Africa.Palmer, D.D.
2000.
Tokenisation and sentence seg-mentation.
In Handbook of natural LanguageProcessing, Dale, R., Moisl, H. And Somers, H.(Eds.).
Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, USA.Pretorius, R.S.
1997.
Auxiliary Verbs as a Sub-category of the Verb in Tswana.
PhD thesis.
PUfor CHE, Potchefstroom, South Africa.Pretorius, L and Bosch, S.E.
2003.
Computationalaids for Zulu natural language processing.
SouthAfrican Linguistics and Applied Language Studies,21(4):267-281.Pretorius, R., Viljoen, B. and Pretorius, L. 2005.
Afinite-state morphological analysis of Setswananouns.
South African Journal of African Lan-guages, 25(1):48-58.Pretorius, L., Viljoen, B., Pretorius, R. and Berg, A.2008.
Towards a computational morphologicalanalysis of Setswana compounds.
Literator,29(1):1-20.Schiller, A.
1996.
Multilingual finite-state noun-phrase extraction.
In Proceedings of the ECAI 96Workshop on Extended Finite State Models ofLanguage, Kornai, A.
(Ed.
).Taljard, E.  2006  Corpus based linguistic investiga-tion for the South African Bantu languages: aNorthern Sotho case study.
South African journalof African languages, 26(4):165-183.Taljard, E. and Bosch, S.E.
2006.
A Comparison ofApproaches towards Word Class Tagging: Disjunc-tively versus Conjunctively Written Bantu Lan-guages.
Nordic Journal of African Studies, 15(4):428-442.Van Wyk, E.B.
1958.
Woordverdeling in Noord-Sotho en Zoeloe.
?n Bydrae tot die Vraagstuk vanWoordidentifikasie in die Bantoetale.
Universityof Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa.Van Wyk, E.B.
1967.
The word classes of NorthernSotho.
Lingua, 17(2):230-261.73
