Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 1?9,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPA Cognitive-based Annotation System for Emotion ComputingYing Chen, Sophia Y. M. Lee and Chu-Ren HuangDepartment of Chinese & Bilingual StudiesThe Hong Kong Polytechnic University{chenying3176,sophiaym,churen.huang}@gmail.comAbstractEmotion computing is very important forexpressive information extraction.
In thispaper, we provide a robust and versatileemotion annotation scheme based on cog-nitive emotion theories, which not onlycan annotate both explicit and implicitemotion expressions, but also can encodedifferent levels of emotion information forthe given emotion content.
In addition,motivated by a cognitive framework, anautomatic emotion annotation system isdeveloped, and large and comparativelyhigh-quality emotion corpora are createdfor emotion computing, one in Chineseand the other in English.
Such an annota-tion system can be easily adapted for dif-ferent kinds of emotion applications andbe extended to other languages.1 IntroductionAffective information is important for humanlanguage technology, and sentiment analysis, acoarse-grained affective computing (Shanahan etal., 2006), which is attitude assessment, has be-come the most salient trend.
The polarity-drivenapproach in sentiment analysis is, however, oftencriticized as too general to satisfy some applica-tions, such as advertisement design and robotdesign, and one way to capture more fine-grainedaffective information is to detect emotion expres-sions.
Unlike sentiment, emotions are cognitive-based, which consistently occur across domainsbecause of its human psychological activities.We believe that emotion computing, which is afine-grained and cognitive-based framework ofaffective computing, will provide a more robustand versatile model for human language technol-ogy.Since the concept of emotion is very compli-cated and subjective, comparing to some annota-tions such as POS annotation and Chinese wordsegmentation annotation, emotion annotation ishighly labor intensive as it requires careful hu-man judgment.
Both explicit and implicit emo-tions must be recognized and tagged during emo-tion annotation, therefore, emotion annotation isnot a simple assignment exercise as in POS an-notation.
Technically, emotion annotation can bedivided into two subtasks: emotion detection (i.e.differentiate emotional content from neutral con-tent), which is a very important task for affectiveinformation extraction, and emotion classifica-tion (i.e.
assign emotion tags to emotional con-tent.
)Emotion computing often requires a large andhigh-quality annotated data, however, there is alack of this kind of corpus.
This is not only be-cause of the enormous human involvement, butalso because of the unavailability of emotion an-notation scheme, which is robust and versatilefor both emotion annotation and emotion com-puting.
Tokuhisa et al (2008) is the only workthat explores the issue of emotion detectionwhile most of the previous studies concentrate onthe emotion classification given a known emo-tion context (Mihalcea and Liu, 2006; Kozarevaet al, 2007.)
Even for emotion classification,some issues remain unresolved, such as the com-plicated relationships among different emotiontypes, emotion type selection, and so on.
Thus, itis still far from solving the emotion problem ifemotion annotation is just considered as emo-tion-tag assignment.In this paper, we first explore the relationshipsamong different emotion types with the supportof a proposed emotion taxonomy, which com-bines some psychological theories and linguisticsemantics.
Based on the emotion taxonomy, arobust and versatile emotion annotation schemeis designed and used in both Chinese and English1emotion corpora.
Our emotion annotationscheme is very flexible, which is only a layeradded to a sentence, although it can easily beextended to a higher level of a text.
Our annota-tion scheme not only can provide the emotiontype information, but also can encode the infor-mation regarding the relationship between emo-tions.
With this versatile annotated emotion in-formation, different NLP users can extract dif-ferent emotion information from a given anno-tated corpus according to their applications.With such an emotion annotation scheme, alarge and comparatively high-quality annotatedemotion corpus is built for emotion computingthrough an unsupervised approach.
Tokuhisa etal.
(2008) pointed out that besides emotion cor-pus, neutral corpus (i.e.
sentences containing noemotion) is also very important for emotioncomputing.
Therefore, a high-quality neutralcorpus is also automatically collected using con-textual information.
These two corpora are com-bined to form a complete emotion-driven corpusfor emotion computing.
Although the unsuper-vised method cannot provide a perfectly-annotated corpus, it can easily adapt for differentemotion computing.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
In Section 2, we give an overview of theprevious work on emotion annotation and somerelated psychological and linguistic theories.
InSection 3, we describe our emotion taxonomyand emotion annotation scheme.
Section 4 dis-cusses how the unsupervised corpus is created.Section 5 presents the pilot experiments for emo-tion computing with our corpus, which suggeststhat the unsupervised approach of our corpuscreation is effective.
Finally, a conclusion ismade in Section 5.2 Related workThere is no clear consensus among many psy-chological and linguistic theories on the conceptof emotions.
Here, we limit our work by the clas-sic definition of ?emotions?
(Cannon, 1927):Emotion is the felt awareness of bodily reactionsto something perceived or thought.Emotion is a complicated concept, and thereare complicated relationships among differentemotions.
For example, the relationship between?discouraged?
and ?sad?
is different with the onebetween ?remorse?
and ?sad.?
Hobbs & Gordon(2008) and Mathieu (2005) explore emotionsmainly from a lexical semantics perspective, andSchr?der et al (2006) designed an annotationscheme, EARL, mainly for speech processing.Because of the disagreements in emotion theories,EARL did not explore the relationships amongemotion types.
In this paper, we focus on emo-tions in written data, which is very different fromthat of in spoken data in terms of expressions.Here, we first adopt psychological theories(Plutchik, 1980; Turner, 2000) to create an emo-tion taxonomy, and then design an emotion anno-tation scheme based on the taxonomy.Since most of the previous emotion corporaare either too small (Xu et al, 2008) or compara-tively ineffective in terms of accuracy (Tokuhisaet al, 2008), they cannot satisfy the requirementsof emotion computing.
In this paper, based onNatural Semantic Metalanguage (NSM), a cogni-tive approach to human emotions (which will bediscussed in the later section), we create an au-tomatic emotion annotation system.
While thisannotation system needs only a little training da-ta and does not require human supervision, thecorpus still maintains a comparatively high qual-ity.
Another significant advantage of our auto-matic annotation system is that it can easily adaptto different emotion applications by simply sup-plying different training data.Most of the existing emotion theories studyemotions from the biological and psychologicalperspectives, hence they cannot easily apply toNLP.
Fortunately, NSM, one of the prominentcognitive models exploring human emotions,offers a comprehensive and practical approach toemotions (Wierbicka 1996.)
NSM describescomplex and abstract concepts, such as emotions,in terms of simpler and concrete ones.
In such away, emotions are decomposed as complexevents involving a cause and a mental state,which can be further described with a set of uni-versal, irreducible cores called semantic primi-tives.
This approach identifies the exact differ-ences and connections between emotion conceptsin terms of the causes, which provide an imme-diate cue for emotion detection and classification.We believe that the NSM model offers a plausi-ble framework to be implemented for automaticemotion computing.3 Emotion annotation scheme3.1 The emotion taxonomyAlthough there are many emotion theories devel-oped in different fields, such as biology, psy-chology, and linguistics, most of them agree thatemotion can be divided into primary emotionsand complex emotions (i.e.
the combinations of2primary emotions.)
There is still controversyover the selection of primary emotions, nonethe-less, ?happiness?, ?sadness?, ?anger?, and ?fear?are considered as primary emotions by most ofemotion theories.Plutchik?s emotion taxonomy (Plutchik 1980),one of the classic emotion taxonomies, also fol-lows the division of primary emotions and com-plex emotions, and Turner's taxonomy (Turner2000), which is based on Plutchik?s work, allowsmore flexible combinations of primary emotions.In this paper, we adopt Turner?s taxonomy, withthe two main points emphasized:1) For each primary emotion, it is divided intothree levels according to its intensity: high, mod-erate, and low.
Besides ?happiness,?
?sadness,??anger?
and ?fear,?
Turner also suggests that?disgust?
and ?surprise?
can be primary emo-tions (Turner 1996; Turner 2007).
In Chinese,the character ???
(?surprise?)
has a strong abil-ity to form many emotion words, such as ??
(surprise and happiness), and ??
(surprise andfear), which is consistent with the explanation of?surprise?
emotion by Plutchik (1991): ?whenthe stimulus has been evaluated, the surprise mayquickly change to any other emotion.?
Therefore,in our annotation scheme, we consider ?happi-ness,?
?sadness,?
?anger,?
?fear,?
and ?surprise?as primary emotions.2) Complex emotion can be divided into first-order complex emotions (consisting of two pri-mary emotions), second-order complex emotions(consisting of three primary emotions), and so on,according to the number of primary emotionsthat involves in the complex emotion.
For exam-ple, ?pride?
(happiness + fear) is a first-ordercomplex emotion, which contains a greateramount of ?happiness?
with a lesser amount of?fear.
?Tables 1 and 2 show some keywords in Turn-er?s taxonomy, and the symbol ?//?
is to separatedifferent emotion types.
Table 1 lists the fivemost common English keywords and their cor-responding primary emotions, and Table 2 liststhe English keywords and their correspondingcomplex emotions.
In Table 2, several emotionkeywords, which express similar emotionmeaning, are grouped into an emotion type.
Forexample, the emotion keywords ?awe, reverence,veneration?
are grouped into emotion type?awe.?
For a complex emotion, the order of pri-mary emotions indicates the importance of thoseprimary emotions for that complex emotion.
Forexamples, ?envy?
is ?fear + anger,?
which con-tains a greater amount of ?fear?
with a lesseramount of ?anger?
whereas ?awe?
is ?fear +happiness,?
which contains a greater amount of?fear?
with a lesser amount of ?happiness.
?For English emotion keywords, as Turner?staxonomy missed some common emotion key-words, we add the emotion keywords fromPlutchik's taxonomy.
Besides, unlike Chinese,English words have morphological variations, forexample, the emotion keyword ?pride?
can occurin text with the various formats: ?pride,??prides,?
?prided,?
?proud,?
?proudly.?
Asshown in Tables 1 and 2, there are 188 Englishlemmas in our taxonomy.
In total, there are 720emotion keywords if morphology is taken intoaccount.Since Turner?s emotion taxonomy is cogni-tive-based, it is versatile for different languagesalthough there is no one-to-one mapping.
Wealso explore Chinese emotion taxonomy in ourprevious work (Chen at el., 2009).
We first selectemotion keywords from the cognitive-based feel-ing words listed in Xu and Tao (2003), and thenmap those emotion keywords to Turner?s taxon-omy with adaptation for some cases.
Lastly,some polysemous emotion keywords are re-moved to reduce ambiguity, and 226 Chineseemotion keywords remain.Moreover, Turner?s taxonomy is a compara-tively flexible structure, and more extensions canbe done for different applications.
For example,for a complex emotion, not only its primary emo-tions are listed, but also the intensity of the pri-mary emotions can be given.
For instance, threeemotion types, which belong to ?anger + fear,?are extended as follows:Jealousy:      Anger (Moderate) + Fear (Moderate)Suspicion:    Anger (Low) + Fear (Low)Abhorrence: Anger (High) + Fear (Low)Finally, we should admit that the emotion tax-onomy is still an on-going research topic andneeds further exploration, such as the position ofa given emotion keyword in the emotion taxon-omy, whether and how to group similar emotionkeywords, and how to decompose a complexemotion into primary emotions.3.2 The emotion annotation schemeGiven Turner?s taxonomy, we design our annota-tion scheme to encode this kind of emotion in-formation.
Our emotion annotation scheme isXML scheme, and conforms with the Text En-coding Initiative (TEI) scheme with some modi-fications.
The emotion scheme is a layer just3Primary Emotions KeywordsHappiness High: ecstatic, eager, joy, enthusiastic, happy//Moderate: cheerful, satisfy, pleased, enjoy, interest//Low:sanguine, serene, content, gratefulFear High: horror, terror//Moderate: misgivings, self-conscious, scare, panic, anxious//Low: bewilder, reluct,shy, puzzles, confuseAnger High: dislike, disgust, outrage, furious, hate//Moderate: contentious, offend, frustrate, hostile, an-gry//Low: contemptuous, agitate, irritate, annoy, impatientSadness High: deject, despondent, sorrow, anguish, despair//Moderate: gloomy, dismay, sad, unhappy, disap-point//Low: dispirit, downcast, discourageSurprise High: astonish//Moderate: startled, amaze, surpriseTable1: Primary emotions and some corresponding keywordsCombinations KeywordsHappiness + Fear Wonder: wonder, wondering, hopeful//Pride: pride, boastfulHappiness + Anger Vengeance: vengeance, vengeful//Calm: appeased, calmed, calm, soothed//Bemused: bemusedHappiness + Sadness Yearning: nostalgia, yearningFear + Happiness Awe: awe, reverence, venerationFear + Anger Antagonism: antagonism, revulsed//Envy: envyFear + Sadness Worried: dread, wariness, pensive, helpless, apprehension, worriedAnger +Happiness Unfriendly: snubbing, mollified, rudeness, placated, apathetic, unsympathetic, unfriendly, unaffection-ate//Sarcastic: sarcasticAnger + Fear Jealousy: jealous//Suspicion: suspicion, distrustful//Abhorrence: abhorrenceAnger + Sadness Depressed: bitter, depression//Intolerant: intolerantSadness +Happiness Acceptance: acceptance, tolerant//Solace: moroseness, solace, melancholySadness+ Fear Hopeless: forlorn, lonely, hopeless, miserable//Remorseful: remorseful, ashamed, humiliatedSadness+ Anger Discontent: aggrieved, discontent, dissatisfied, unfulfilled//Boredom: boredom//Grief: grief, sullennessSurprise + Happiness Delight: delightSurprise + Sadness Embarrassed: embarrassedTable 2:  First-order complex emotions and some corresponding keywordsbeyond a sentence, and encodes emotion infor-mation for a sentence.
This annotation schemecan be compatible for any TEI-based annotatedcorpora as long as sentences are clearly marked.The emotion-related elements (tags) in ourannotation scheme are described as follows.
Foreasy demonstration, our elements are definedwith the format of British National Corpus(BNC) annotation scheme1 , and our examplesare also based on BNC annotated text.
Figure 1gives the definition of each element, and Figure2 shows several examples using our annotationscheme.
Note that <s> element is a tag for a sen-tence-like division of a text, and its attribute ?n?gives the sentence index.
In Figure 2, Sentence 1,which expresses emotions by emotion keywords,contains two types of emotions: ?surprise?
(pri-mary emotion) and ?jealousy?
(complex emo-tion); Sentence 2 is a neutral sentence.<emotion> elementIt is used only when the sentence expressesemotions.
It contains a list of <emotionType>elements and a <s> element.
As a sentence may1 http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/XMLedition/URG/express several emotions, an <emotion> elementcan contain several <emotionType> elements,and each <emotionType> element describes anemotion occurring in that sentence separately.<neutral> elementIt is used only when the sentence does notcontain any emotion expression.
It contains onlya <s> element.<emotionType> elementIt describes a type of emotion in that sentence.It contains an ordered sequence of <pri-maryEmotion> elements.
Attribute ?name?
pro-vides the name of the emotion type, such as?surprise?, ?jealousy,?
and so on, and it is op-tional.
If the emotion type is a primary emotion,the <emotionType> element will have only one<primaryEmotion> element, which encodes theinformation of this primary emotion.
If the emo-tion is a complex emotion, the <emotionType>element will have several <primaryEmotion>elements (each of them describes the primaryemotion involved in that complex emotion.)
At-tribute ?keyword?
is an optional attribution ifannotators want to provide the indicator of a textfor that emotion.4<primaryEmtion> elementIt describes the property of a primary emotioninvolved in the emotion type.
There are threeattributes: ?order,?
?name,?
and ?intensity.??Order?
gives the weight of this primary emo-tion in the emotion type, and the weight valuedecreases with the ascending ?order?
value.?Name?
and ?intensity?
provide the name andintensity of a primary emotion.
To encode theinformation in our emotion taxonomy, the valueof ?order?
is {1,2,3,4,5}, the value of ?name?
is{?happiness,?
?sadness,?
?anger,?
?fear?, ?sur-prise?
}, and  the value of ?intensity?
is {?high?,?moderate?, ?low?.
}The <primaryEmotion> element seems to beredundant because its encoded information canbe obtained from the given emotion taxonomy ifthe name of the emotion type is available, butthe presence of this element can make our anno-tation scheme more robust.
Sometimes emotionis so complicated (especially for those emotionexpressions without any explicit emotion key-word) that an annotator may not be able to findan exact emotion type to match this emotion, orto list all involved primary emotions.
For thosesubtle cases, emotion annotation can be simpli-fied to list the involved primary emotions asmany as possible through <primaryEmotion>elements.
For example, in Sentence 3 in Figure 2,although there is no emotion keyword occurring,the word ?hurt?
indicates the presence of anemotion, which at least involves ?sadness.
?However, because it is hard to explicitly list oth-er primary emotions, therefore, we give only theannotation of ?sadness.
?Our annotation scheme has the versatility toprovide emotion data for different applications.For example, if textual information input anno-tated with our scheme is provided for the Japa-nese robot Saya (Hashimoto et al 2006) to con-trol her facial emotion expression, a simplemapping from our 24 emotion types can be doneautomatically to Saya?s six emotion types, i.e.surprise, fear, disgust, anger, happiness, andsadness.
As four of her emotion types are alsounique primary emotions, using information en-coded in <emotionType> element and <pri-maryEmotion> element will ensure uniquemany-to-one mapping and the correct roboticexpressions.
A trickier case involves her ?anger?and ?disgust?
emotions.
The emotion type ?an-ger?
in our taxonomy includes emotion words?anger?
and ?disgust?.
However, with the ?key-word?
information provided in <emotionType>element, a small subset of ?anger?
emotion inour taxonomy can be mapped to ?disgust?
inSaya?s system.
For example, we could mapkeywords ?dislike, disgust, hate?
to ?disgust?,element emotion{(emotionType)+,<s>}element emotionType{attribute name (optional),attribute keyword (optional),(primaryEmotion)+}element primaryEmotion{attribute order (optional),attribute name (necessary),attribute intensity (optional)}element neutral{<s>}Figure 1: The definition of emotion-related elements<emotion><emotionType name =  "surprise"  keyword ="surprised"><primaryEmotion  order =  "1" name =  "surprise"  intensity = "moderate"></primaryEmotion></emotionType><emotionType name = "jealousy"  keyword = ?jealousy?><primaryEmotion  order =  "1"  name = "anger" intensity =  "moderate"></primaryEmotion><primaryEmotion  order =  "2"  name =  "fear"   intensity =  "moderate"></primaryEmotion></emotionType><s n = "1"> Hari was surprised at the rush of pure jealousy that swept over her at the mention of Emily Grenfell .</s></emotion><neutral><s n = "2"> By law no attempts may be made to hasten death or prolong the life of the sufferer .
</s></neutral><emotion><emotionType><primaryEmotion name =  "sadness"></primaryEmotion></emotionType><s n = "3">He looked hurt when she did n't join him , his emotions transparent as a child 's .
</s></emotion>Figure 2: The example of sentence annotation5and all the remaining ones, such as ?outrage,furious,?
to ?anger.
?4 Emotion-driven corpus creationSimilar to most corpora, our corpus creation isdesigned to satisfy the requirements of real emo-tion computing.
Emotions can be expressed withor without emotion vocabulary in the text.
Itseems to be intuitive that emotion computing fora context with emotion keywords can be satis-factory when the collection of emotion vocabu-lary is comprehensive, such as ?joyful?
indicatesthe presence of ?happiness?
emotion.
However,this intuitive approach cannot work well becauseof the ambiguity of some emotion keywords andthe emotion context shift as the sentiment shift(Polanyi and Zaenen, 2004).
Moreover, the de-tection of emotions in a context without emotionkeywords is very challenging.
To deal with theseproblems, we build the emotion corpus, which ismotivated by the NSM theory.According to the NSM theory, an emotion isprovoked by a stimulus.
This indicates one pos-sible way to detect emotions in text, i.e.
the de-tection of emotional stimulus, which is oftenprovided in the text.
In other words, emotioncorpus is a collection of emotion stimuli.
Sinceemotion is subjective, the stimulus-based ap-proach works only when its context is provided.For example, the stimulus ?
?build a gym forthis community?
?
may cause different emotions,such as ?surprise?, ?happy?
and so on, depend-ing on its context.
We also notice that the textcontaining an emotion keyword may containemotional stimulus and its context.
Thus, a natu-ral corpus creation approach comes out.In our system, a pattern-based approach isused to collect the emotion corpus, which is sim-ilar to the one used in Tokuhisa et al (2008), butwe do not limit to event-driven emotions(Kozareva et al, 2008), and adjust our rules toimprove the quality of emotion annotation.There are five steps in our emotion sentence an-notation as given below, and Steps (2) and (3)are to improve the annotation quality.1) Extract emotion sentences: sentences con-taining emotion keywords are extracted bykeyword matching.2) Delete ambiguous structures: some ambigu-ous sentences, which contain structures suchas negation and modal, are filtered out.3) Delete ambiguous emotion keywords: if anemotion keyword is very ambiguous, all sen-tences containing this ambiguous emotionkeyword are filtered out.4) Give emotion tags: each remaining sentenceis marked with its emotion tag according to theemotion type which the focus emotion wordbelongs to (refer to Tables 1 and 2.
)5) Ignore the focus emotion keywords: foremotion computing, the emotion word is re-moved from each sentence.Polanyi and Zaenen (2004) addressed the is-sue of polarity-based sentiment context shift,and the similar phenomenon also exists in emo-tion expressions.
In our corpus creation, twokinds of contextual structures are handled with:the negation structure and the modal structure.In both English and Chinese, a negated emotionexpression can be interpreted as one of the threepossible meanings (as shown in Figure 3): oppo-site to the target emotion (S1), deny the exis-tence of the target emotion (S2), or confirm theexistence of the target emotion (S3).
The modalstructure often indicates that the emotion expres-sion is based on the counter-factual assumption,hence the emotion does not exist at all (S4 andS5 in Figure 3).
Although Chinese and Englishhave different interpretations about the modalstructure, for emotion analysis, those sentencesoften do not express an emotion.
Therefore, toensure the quality of the emotion corpus, all sen-tences containing a negation structure or a modalstructure, which are detected by some rules plusa list of keywords (negation polarity words forthe negation structure, and modal words for themodal structure), are removed.To overcome the high ambiguity of someemotion keywords, after Step (2), for each emo-tion keyword, five sentences are randomly se-lected and annotated by two annotators.
If theaccuracy of five sentences is lower than 40%,this emotion keyword is removed from our emo-tion taxonomy.
Finally, 191 Chinese keywordsand 645 English keywords are remained.Tokuhisa et al found that a big challenge foremotion computing, especially for emotion de-tection, is to collect neutral sentences.
Sinceneutral sentences are unmarked and hard to de-tect, we develop a na?ve yet effective algorithmS1  (Neg_Happiness): I am not happy about that.S2 (Netural): Though the palazzo is our family home, myfather had never been very happy there.S3  (Pos_Happiness): I 've never been so happy.S4  (Netural): I can die happy if you will look after them whenI have gone.S5  (Netural): Then you could move over there and we'd all behappy.Figure 3: Structures for emotion shift6to create a neutral corpus.
A sentence is consid-ered as neutral only when the sentence itself andits context (i.e.
the previous sentence and thefollowing sentence) do not contain any of thegiven emotion keywords.We run our emotion sentence extraction andneutral sentence extraction on three corpora: theSinica Corpus (Chinese), the Chinese GigawordCorpus, and the British National Corpus (BNC,English), and create three emotion corpora andthree neutral corpora separately.
The SinicaCorpus is a balanced Chinese corpus, which in-cludes documents in 15 kinds of genres; TheChinese Gigaword Corpus is a huge collectionof news reports; The BNC is also a balancedcorpus, which collects documents from differentdomains.To estimate the accuracy of our emotion sen-tence extraction, we randomly select about 1000sentences from the three emotion corpora, andhave two annotators to check it.
Table 3 lists theaccuracy of those emotions sentences (emotioncorpus.)
To test how good this straightforwardneutral sentence extraction strategy is, about1000 sentences are randomly selected from eachof the three neutral corpora and are checked bytwo annotators.
Table 3 lists the accuracy ofthose neutral sentences (neutral corpus.
)Emotion corpus Neutral corpusGigaword 82.17 98.61Sinica 77.56 98.39BNC 69.36 99.50Table 3: The accuracy of the emotion-driven corporaFrom Table 3, the high accuracy of neutralcorpus proves that our approach is effective inextracting neutral sentences from the document-based corpus which contains contextual informa-tion.
Although the accuracy of emotion corpus islower, it is still much higher than the one re-ported by Kozareva et al (2008), i.e.
49.4.
Theaccuracy is significantly increased by deletingambiguous emotion keywords in Step (3).
Forthe 2,474 randomly selected Chinese sentences,the overall accuracy of the remaining 1,751 sen-tence is increased by about 14% after Step (3).For the 803 randomly selected English sentences,the accuracy of the remaining 473 sentence isincreased about 21% after Step (3).
Whether orhow the ambiguous emotion keywords in Step 3are removed is a tradeoff between the coverageand the accuracy of the emotion corpus.From Table 3, we also find that the accuracyof English emotion corpus is much lower thanChinese emotion corpus, which indicates Eng-lish emotion sentences expressed by emotionkeywords are more ambiguous than that of Chi-nese.
Moreover, during our emotion corpusbuilding, 20.2% of Sinica sentences and 22.4%of Gigaword sentences are removed in Step (2)and (3), on the contrary, 41.2% of BNC sen-tences are deleted.
Although it is more difficultto develop the rules in Step (2) and (3) for Chi-nese than for English, it also confirms the higherambiguity of emotion expressions in English dueto the ambiguity of emotion keyword.
Finally,because of the comparatively-high percentage ofthe sentences removed in Step (2) and (3), moreexploration about those sentences is needed,such as the emotion distribution, the expressionpatterns and so on, and how to re-incorporatethem into the emotion corpus without hurting thewhole quality is also our future work.We also explore emotions through the sen-tences (no-emotion-keyword sentences) that donot contain any given emotion keyword, becauseour approach extracts only partial neutral sen-tences and partial emotion sentences in reality.For each corpus, about 1000 no-emotion-keyword sentences are randomly selected andchecked by two annotators.
It is surprising thatonly about 1% of those sentences express emo-tions.
This indicates that it is important for realemotion computing, which mainly works onformal written text, to deal with the emotion ex-pressions which contain emotion keywords andhowever are ambiguous, such as the sentencesdeleted in Steps (2) and (3).
More exploration isneeded for the emotion and neutral sentence dis-tribution on other kinds of written text, such asblogs, and on spoken text.The unsupervised corpus creation approachcan easily be adapted for different languages anddifferent emotion applications, provided that thekeyword collection and patterns in Step (2) and(3) need some changes.
Moreover, another bigadvantage of our approach is that it can avoidthe controversy during emotion annotation.Emotion is subjective, and therefore disagree-ment for emotion types often arises if the emo-tion is not expressed through an explicit emotionkeyword.Overall, the annotated corpus created by theunsupervised approach has a comparatively highquality, and is suitable for the emotion comput-ing.
As the size of the neutral corpus is muchbigger than its corresponding emotion corpus, toavoid model bias, we randomly select some neu-tral sentences from the neutral corpus, combin-7ing with its corresponding emotion sentences toform a complete emotion-driven corpus.5 Emotion computing systemIn this paper, we present some pilot work toprove that our emotion-driven corpus is usefulfor emotion computing.
With the inclusion ofneutral sentences, emotion detection and classi-fication is simplified into a general classificationproblem, and a supervised machine learningmethod can be directly applied if enough anno-tated data are obtained.
Here, we choose theMaxEnt learning in Mallet as a classifier.Both the Sinica Corpus and the Chinese Gi-gaword Corpus are segmented, and POS-tagged.This allows us to implement the bag-of-wordsapproach in the focus sentences in both Chineseand English.
However, emotions are mostly hu-man attitudes or expectations arising from situa-tions, where situations are often expressed inmore than a single word.
Such kind of situationstends to be more easily extracted by word bi-grams (2-gram word) than by word unigram (1-gram word.)
To take this into account, besides 1-gram words, we also extract word bi-grams fromthe focus sentences.There are too many emotion types in our cor-pus, which can cause data sparse; therefore, wechoose the most frequent emotions to do explo-ration.
Besides the five primary emotions, forChinese, we select another nine complex emo-tions, and for English, we select another fourcomplex emotions.
Other emotion types are re-named as ?Other Emotions.
?Since Chinese emotion-driven corpus is muchlarger than the English one, to fairly compare theperformance, we reduce the size of Chinese cor-pus in our experiments.
Then, for each corpus,we reserve 80% as the training data, 10% as thedevelopment data, and 10% as the test data(there are two sets of test data as follows.)
In theevaluation, for each emotion sentence, if oursystem detects one of its emotion tags, we con-sider this sentence is correctly tagged.Test data set 1 (TDS 1): contains about 10%of the sentences from the complete emotion-driven corpus, and emotion tags are automati-cally given during the corpus creation.Test data set 2 (TDS 2): contains the sen-tences used in Table 3, which is checked by twoannotators.
If more than one emotion tags co-exist in a sentence, all of them are chosen to la-bel the sentence.
If there exists an emotion thatdoes not belong to any of the emotion types, it islabeled as ?Other Emotions.
?Table 4 shows the performance (accuracy) ofour system for Test data set 1 and 2 for bothChinese and English.
We notice that our corpuscreation approach is effective for emotion com-puting.
As we expect, the 2-gram words can par-tially catch the emotion stimulus, and improvesthe performances.
However, the overall per-formance is still very low, which indicates thatemotion computing is a difficult task.
From theerror analysis, it is surprised that for Chinese,the mislabeling of emotion sentences as neutralsentences (?emotion?
vs.
?neutral?)
is a commonerror, and whereas, for English, two kinds oferrors: ?emotion?
vs. ?neutral?
and ?focus emo-tions?
vs. ?Other emotions?
(the mislabeling of asentence with a focus emotion as ?Other emo-tions,?)
occupy at least 50%.
The error distribu-tion confirms the importance of emotion detec-tion during emotion computing.
The high fre-quency of the error of ?focus emotions?
vs.?Other Emotions?
in English may be becausethere are fewer focus emotion types for English.1-gram words  {1,2}-gram wordsChinese TDS 1 53.92 58.75English TDS 1 44.02 48.20Chinese TDS 2 37.18 39.95English TDS 2 33.24 36.31Table 4: The performances of our system for the test data6 ConclusionEmotion, no matter its annotation or computing,is still a new and difficult topic.
In this paper, weapply emotion theories to design a cognitive-based emotion annotation scheme, which arerobust and versatile so that it can encode differ-ent levels of emotion information for differentemotion computing.
Moreover, motivated fromNSM, we develop an unsupervised approach tocreate a large and comparatively high-qualitycorpus for emotion computing, which is provenin our pilot experiments to be useful.
Moreover,this approach makes emotion computing for dif-ferent applications possible through a little mod-ification.Certainly, there are some issues remaining un-solved.
For corpus construction, we will exploreemotion distribution in other kinds of corpora,such as blog and dialog, and make analysis ofambiguous emotion sentences, such as negationstructure and modal structure.
For emotion com-puting, we did only pilot experiments and morework needs to be done, such as feature extrac-tion.8ReferencesW.
B. Cannon.
1927.
The James-Lange theory ofemotions: A Critical Examination and an Alterna-tive Theory.
American Journal of Psychology, 39,106-124.Y.
Chen, S. Y. M. Lee and C. R. Huang, 2009.
Con-struction of Chinese Emotion Corpus with an Un-supervised Approach.
In CNCCL-2009, 2009.
(inChinese)T. Hashimoto, S. Hiramatsu, T. Tsuji and H. Kobaya-shi.
2006.
Development of the Face Robot SAYAfor Rich Facial Expressions.
SICE-ICASE Inter-national Joint Conference, Busan,Korea.J.
Hobbs and A. Gordon.
2008.
The Deep LexicalSemantics of Emotions.
Workshop on SentimentAnalysis: Emotion, Metaphor, Ontology andTerminology (EMOT-08), 6th International con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC-08), Marrakech, Morocco, May 27, 2008.P.
Livia, A. Zaenen.
2004.
Contextual Valence Shift-ers.
In Shanahan, J. G., Y. Qu, and J.
Wiebe(Eds.
), Computing Attitude and Affect in Text:Theory and Applications, pp.
1-10.Z.
Kozareva, Borja Navarro, Sonia Vazquez, andAndres Nibtoyo.
2007.
UA-ZBSA: A HeadlineEmotion Classification through Web Information.In Proceedings of the 4th International Workshopon Semantic Evaluations.Y.
Y. Mathieu.
2005.
Annotations of Emotions andFeelings in Texts.
In Conference on AffectiveComputing and intelligent Interaction (ACII2005),Beijing, Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-ence, pp.
350-357.R.
Mihalcefa, and Hugo Liu.
2006.
A Corpus-basedApproach to Finding Happiness.
In Proceedingsof AAAI.R.
Plutchik.
1991.
The Emotions.
University Press ofAmerica, Inc.R.
Plutchik.
1980.
Emotions: A psychoevolutionarysynthesis.
New York:Harper & Row.M.
Schr?der, H. Pirker and M. Lamolle.
2006.
Firstsuggestions for an emotion annotation and repre-sentation language.
In L. Deviller et al (Ed.
),Proceedings of LREC'06 Workshop on Corporafor Research on Emotion and Affect (pp.
88-92).Genoa, Italy.J.
G. Shanahan, Y. Qu and J. Wiebe.
2006.
Comput-ing attitude and affect in text: theory and applica-tions, Springer.R.
Tokuhisa, K. Inui, and Y. Matsumoto (Eds.)
2008.Emotion Classification Using Massive ExamplesExtracted from the Web.
COLING.J.
H. Turner.
2007.
Human Emotions: A sociologicaltheory.
New York : Routledge, 2007.J.
H. Turner.
2000.
On the origins of human emotions:A sociological inquiry into the evolution of hu-man affect.
Stanford, CA: Stanford UniversityPress.J.
H. Turner.
1996.
The Evolution of Emotions inHumans: A Darwinian?Durkheimian Analysis.Journal for the theory of social behaviour26:1-34L.
Xu, H. Lin, J. ZHAO.2008.
Construction andAnalysis of Emotional Corpus.
JOURNAL OFCHINESE INFORMA TION PROCESSIN.X.
Y. Xu, and J. H. Tao.
2003.
The study of affectivecategorization in Chinese.
The 1st Chinese Con-ference on Affective Computing and IntelligentInteraction.
Beijing, China.A.
Wierzbicka, 1996.
Semantics: Primes and Univer-sals.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.9
