Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technology and Resources for Cultural Heritage,Social Sciences, Humanities, and Education ?LaTeCH ?
SHELT&R 2009, pages 43?50,Athens, Greece, 30 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Development of the Index Thomisticus Treebank Valency LexiconBarbara McGillivrayUniversity of PisaItalyb.mcgillivray@ling.unipi.itMarco PassarottiCatholic University of the Sacred HeartMilan, Italymarco.passarotti@unicatt.itAbstractWe present a valency lexicon for Latin verbsextracted from the Index Thomisticus Tree-bank, a syntactically annotated corpus of Me-dieval Latin texts by Thomas Aquinas.In our corpus-based approach, the lexicon re-flects the empirical evidence of the sourcedata.
Verbal arguments are induced directlyfrom annotated data.The lexicon contains 432 Latin verbs with 270valency frames.
The lexicon is useful for NLPapplications and is able to support annotation.1 IntroductionOver the last decades, annotated corpora andcomputational lexicons have gained an increas-ing role among language resources in computa-tional linguistics: on the one hand, they are usedto train Natural Language Processing (NLP)tools such as parsers and PoS taggers; on theother hand, they are developed through auto-matic procedures of linguistic annotation andlexical acquisition.The relation between annotated corpora andcomputational lexicons is circular: as a matter offact, if linguistic annotation of textual data issupported and improved by the use of lexicons,these latter can be induced from annotated datain a corpus-based fashion.In the field of cultural heritage and in particu-lar that of classical languages studies, much ef-fort has been devoted throughout the years to thedigitization of texts, but only recently have someprojects begun to annotate them above the mor-phological level.Concerning lexicology and lexicography ofclassical languages, a long tradition has producedand established many dictionaries, thesauri andlexicons, providing examples from real texts.Nevertheless, nowadays it is possible and indeednecessary to match lexicons with data from (an-notated) corpora, and viceversa.
This requires thescholars to exploit the vast amount of textualdata from classical languages already available indigital format,1 and particularly those annotatedat the highest levels.
The evidence provided bythe texts themselves can be fully represented inlexicons induced from these data.
Subsequently,these lexicons can be used to support the textualannotation itself in a virtuous circle.This paper reports on the creation of a valencylexicon induced from the Index ThomisticusTreebank, a syntactically annotated corpus ofMedieval Latin texts by Thomas Aquinas.
Thepaper is organised as follows: section 2 describesthe available Latin treebanks, their annotationguidelines and gives some specific informationon the Index Thomisticus treebank; section 3deals with the notion of valency, while section 4describes the state of the art on valency lexicons;section 5 illustrates the procedures of acquisitionand representation of our valency lexicon; fi-nally, section 6 draws some conclusions and de-scribes future work.2 Latin TreebanksLatin is a richly inflected language, showing:- discontinuous constituents (?non-projectivity?
): this means that phrasal con-stituents may not be continuous, but brokenup by words of other constituents.
An exam-ple is the following sentence by Ovid(Metamorphoses, I.1-2): ?In nova fert ani-mus mutatas dicere formas corpora?
(?Mymind leads me to tell of forms changed intonew bodies?).
In this sentence, both thenominal phrases ?nova corpora?
and ?muta-tas formas?
are discontinuous;- moderately free word-order: for instance, theorder of the words in a sentence like ?au-1 See, for instance, the Perseus Digital Library (Crane et al,2001), or data repositories such as LASLA (Denooz, 1996).43daces fortuna iuvat?
(?fortune favours thebold?)
could be changed into ?fortuna au-daces iuvat?, or ?fortuna iuvat audaces?,without affecting the meaning of the sen-tence.These features of Latin influenced the choiceof Dependency Grammars (DG)2 as the mostsuitable grammar framework for building Latinannotated corpora like treebanks.While since the 1970s the first treebanks wereannotated via Phrase Structure Grammar (PSG)-based schemata (as in IBM, Lancaster and, lateron, Penn treebanks), in the past decade manyprojects of dependency treebanks developmenthave started, such as the ALPINO treebank forDutch (Van der Beek et al, 2002), the TurinUniversity Treebank for Italian (Lesmo et al,2002), or the Danish Dependency Treebank(Kromann, 2003).
On the one hand, this is due tothe fact that the first treebanks were mainly Eng-lish language corpora.
PSG were a suitableframework for a poorly inflected language likeEnglish, showing a fixed word-order and fewdiscontinuous constituents.
Later on, the syntac-tic annotation of moderately free word-order lan-guages required the adoption of the DG frame-work, which is more appropriate than PSG forsuch a task.
On the other hand, Carroll et al(1998) showed that inter-annotator agreementwas significantly better for dependency tree-banks, indicating that phrase structure annotationwas requiring too many irrelevant decisions (seealso Lin, 1995).Although much Latin data is nowadays avail-able in digital format, the first two projects forthe development of Latin treebanks have onlyrecently started: namely the Latin DependencyTreebank (LDT) at the Tufts University in Bos-ton (within the Perseus Digital Library) based ontexts of the Classical era (Bamman, 2006), andthe Index Thomisticus Treebank (IT-TB) at theCatholic University of the Sacred Heart in Milan,based on the Opera omnia of Thomas Aquinas(Passarotti, 2007).Taking into account the above mentioned fea-tures of Latin, both the treebanks independentlychose the DG framework as the most suitableone for data annotation.
The same approach waslater on followed by a third Latin treebank now2 With Tesni?re (1959) as a common background, there aremany different current DG flavours.
See for instance thefollowing: Dependency Unification Grammar (Hellwig,1986), Functional Generative Description (Sgall, Haji?ov?and Panevov?, 1986), Meaning Text Theory (Mel?
?uk,1988), Word Grammar (Hudson, 1990).available, which is ongoing at the University ofOslo in the context of the PROIEL project(Pragmatic Resources in Old Indo-EuropeanLanguages): the aim of PROIEL is the syntacticannotation of the oldest extant versions of theNew Testament in Indo-European languages,including Greek, Latin, Gothic, Armenian andChurch Slavonic (Haug and J?hndal, 2008).2.1 Annotation GuidelinesSince LDT and IT-TB were the first projects oftheir kind for Latin, no prior established guide-lines were available to rely on for syntactic anno-tation.Therefore, the so-called ?analytical layer?
ofannotation of the Prague Dependency Treebank(PDT) for Czech (Haji?
et al, 1999) was chosenand adapted to specific or idiosyncratic construc-tions of Latin.
These constructions (such as theablative absolute or the passive periphrastic)could be syntactically annotated in several dif-ferent ways and are common to Latin of all eras.Rather than have each treebank project decideupon and record each decision for annotatingthem, LDT and IT-TB decided to pool their re-sources and create a single annotation manualthat would govern both treebanks (Bamman etal., 2007a; Bamman et al, 2007b; Bamman et al,2008).As we are dealing with Latin dialects sepa-rated by 13 centuries, sharing a single annotationmanual is very useful for comparison purposes,such as checking annotation consistency or dia-chronically studying specific syntactic construc-tions.
In addition, the task of data annotationthrough these common guidelines allows annota-tors to base their decisions on a variety of exam-ples from a wider range of texts and combine thetwo datasets in order to train probabilistic de-pendency parsers.Although the PROIEL annotation guidelinesare grounded on the same grammar frameworkas the LDT and IT-TB, they differ in a number ofdetails, some of which are described in Passarotti(forthcoming).2.2 The Index Thomisticus TreebankThe Index Thomisticus (IT) by Roberto Busa SJ(1974-1980) was begun in 1949 and is consid-ered a groundbreaking project in computationallinguistics.
It is a database containing the Operaomnia of Thomas Aquinas (118 texts) as well as61 texts by other authors related to Thomas, for atotal of around 11 million tokens.
The corpus ismorphologically tagged and lemmatised.44Early in the 1970?s Busa started to plan a pro-ject aimed at both the morphosyntactic disam-biguation of the IT lemmatisation and the syntac-tic annotation of its sentences.
Today, these tasksare performed by the IT-TB project, which ispart of the wider ?Lessico Tomistico Bicul-turale?, a project whose target is the developmentof a lexicon from the IT texts.3Presently, the size of the IT-TB is 46,456 to-kens, for a total of 2,103 parsed sentences ex-cerpted from the Scriptum super Sententiis Mag-istri Petri Lombardi.3 ValencyAs outlined above, the notion of valency is gen-erally defined as the number of complementsrequired by a word: these obligatory comple-ments are usually named ?arguments?, while thenon-obligatory ones are referred to as ?adjuncts?.Although valency can refer to different parts ofspeech (usually verbs, nouns and adjectives),scholars have mainly focused their attention onverbs, so that the notion of valency often coin-cides with verbal valency.Valency is widely used in DG formalisms, butit also figures in PSG-based formalisms likeHPSG and LFG.While Karl B?hler can be considered as thepioneer of the modern theory of valency,4 LucienTesni?re is widely recognised as its real founder.Tesni?re views valency as a quantitative qualityof verbs, since only verbs constrain both thequantity and the quality (i.e.
nouns and adverbs)of their obligatory arguments; through a meta-phor borrowed from drama, Tesni?re classifiesdependents into actants (arguments) and circon-stants (adjuncts): ?Le noeud verbal [?]
exprimetout un petit drame.
Comme un drame en effet, ilcomporte obligatoirement un proc?s, et le plussouvent des acteurs et des circonstances.
Trans-pos?s du plan de la r?alit?
dramatique sur celuide la syntaxe structurale, le proc?s, les acteurs etles circonstances deviennent respectivement leverbe, les actants et les circonstants?
(Tesni?re,1959: 102).53 http://itreebank.marginalia.it.4 In the Sprachtheorie, he writes that ?die W?rter einer bes-timmten Wortklasse eine oder mehrere Leerstellen um sicher?ffnen, die durch W?rter bestimmter anderer Wortklassenausgef?llt werden m?ssen?
(B?hler, 1934: 173) (?words of acertain word-class open up around themselves one or sev-eral empty spaces that have to be filled by words of certainother word-classes?
; our translation).5 ?The verbal node expresses a whole little drama.
As adrama, it implies a process and, most of the times, actorsArguments can be either obligatory or op-tional, depending on which sense of the verb isinvolved.
For example, the seem sense of theverb appear requires two obligatory argumentsin active clauses, as in the following sentence:?That lawyer appears to love his work?.
Here thesecond argument (?to love his work?)
cannot beleft out without changing the meaning of theverb.
On the other hand, optional arguments arerecorded into the verbal argument structure itself,althought they may not appear at the clausallevel.
For instance, in the following sentence theobject required by the verb eat is missing, but thesentence is still acceptable: ?He eats (some-thing)?.Optionality can also act at the communicativelevel as well as at the structural one.
For in-stance, adjuncts can be necessary for communi-cative intelligibility in particular contexts, as inthe following sentence: ?I met James at the Mar-quee club?, where the locative adverbial (?at theMarquee club?)
is required to answer a questionlike ?Where did you meet James??.
On the otherhand, structural optionality depends on the fea-tures of the language and applies at the clausallevel.
For instance, as a poorly inflected lan-guage, English requires the subject of a predicateto be expressed in declarative and interrogativemain clauses, so that a sentence like the follow-ing is ungrammatical if the subject is missing:?
[I] slept all morning?.Given the so-called ?syntax-semantics inter-face?
(Levin, 1993), arguments are generallyassociated with a predicate sense rather than apredicate form, and are structured in sequencescalled ?subcategorization frames?
(SCFs) or?complementation patterns?.
For example, thereis a semantic difference between the bill senseand the attack sense of the verb charge in Eng-lish, as in the following sentences:- (a) ?The hotel charges 80 euros for a night?.- (b) ?The army charged the enemy?.In these sentences, the two predicate sensesshow two different SCFs:- (a) [Subj_NP, Pred, Obj_NP, Obj_PP-for]- (b) [Pred, Obj_NP]Arguments are also selected by verbs accord-ing to lexical-semantic properties, called ?selec-tional preferences?
(SPs) or ?selectional restric-tions?.
For example, a sentence like ?
*The trainflew to Rome?
is ungrammatical, since it violatesand circumstances.
Transposed from the dramatic reality tostructural syntax, the process, the actors and the circum-stances respectively become the verb, the actants and thecircumstants?
(our translation).45the SP of the verb fly on its subject and can onlybe accepted in a metaphorical context.4 Valency LexiconsOver the past years, several valency lexiconshave been built within different theoreticalframeworks: these lexicons have an importantrole in the NLP community thanks to their wideapplications in NLP components, such as pars-ing, word sense disambiguation, automatic verbclassification and selectional preference acquisi-tion.As shown in Ure?ov?
(2004), a valency lexi-con can also help the task of linguistic annotation(as in treebank development), providing annota-tors with essential information about the numberand types of arguments realized at the syntacticlevel for a specific verb, along with semanticinformation on the verb?s lexical preferences.In the phase of lexicon creation, both intui-tion-based and corpus-based approaches can bepursued, according to the role played by humanintuition and empirical evidence extracted fromannotated corpora such as treebanks.For instance, lexicons like PropBank (Kings-bury and Palmer, 2002), FrameNet (Ruppenhoferet al, 2006) and PDT-Vallex (Haji?
et al, 2003)have been created in an intuition-based fashionand then checked and improved with examplesfrom corpora.On the other side, research in lexical acqui-sition has recently made available a number ofvalency lexicons automatically acquired fromannotated corpora, such as VALEX (Korhonen,et al, 2006) and LexShem (Messiant et al,2008).
Unlike the fully intuition-based ones,these lexicons aim at systematically reflectingthe evidence provided by data, with very littlehuman intervention.
The role of intuition istherefore left to the annotation phase (where theannotator interprets the corpus data), and not ex-tended to the development of the lexicon itself.Corpus-based lexicons show several advan-tages if compared with traditional human-developed dictionaries.
Firstly, they systemati-cally reflect the evidence of the corpus they wereextracted from, while acquiring information spe-cific to the domain of the corpus.
Secondly,unlike manually built lexicons, they are notprone to human errors that are difficult to detect,such as omissions and inconsistencies.
In addi-tion, such lexicons usually display statistical in-formation in their entries, such as the actual fre-quency of subcategorization frames as attested inthe original corpus.
Finally, they are less costlythan hand-crafted lexical resources in terms oftime, money and human resources.While several subcategorization lexiconshave been compiled for modern languages, muchwork in this field still remains to be done onclassical languages such as Greek and Latin.
Re-garding Latin, Happ reports a list of Latin verbsalong with their valencies (Happ, 1976: 480-565).
Bamman and Crane (2008) describe a ?dy-namic lexicon?
automatically extracted from thePerseus Digital Library, using the LDT as atraining set.
This lexicon displays qualitative andquantitative information on subcategorizationpatterns and selectional preferences of each wordas it is used in every Latin author of the corpus.Relying on morphological tagging and statisticalsyntactic parsing of such a large corpus, theirapproach finds the most common arguments andthe most common lexical fillers of these argu-ments, thus reducing the noise caused by theautomatic pre-processing of the data.5 The Index Thomisticus TreebankValency LexiconWe propose a corpus-based valency lexicon forLatin verbs automatically induced from IT-TBdata.
The automatic procedure allows both theextension of this work to the LDT (thanks to thecommon annotation guidelines) and the updatingof the lexicon as the treebank size increases.First, we automatically extract the argu-ments of all the occurrences of verbal lemmata inthe treebank, along with their morphological fea-tures and lexical fillers.In the IT-TB, verbal arguments are anno-tated using the following tags: Sb (Subject), Obj(Object), OComp (Object Complement) andPnom (Predicate Nominal); adjuncts are anno-tated with the tag Adv (Adverbial).
The differ-ence between Obj and Adv corresponds to thethat between direct or indirect arguments (exceptsubjects) and adjuncts.
A special kind of Obj isthe determining complement of the object, whichis tagged with OComp, such as senatorem in thephrase ?aliquem senatorem facere?
(?to nominatesomeone senator?).
Conversely, the determiningcomplement of the subject is tagged as Pnom, asin ?aliquis senator fit?
(?someone becomes sena-tor?
).66 As in the PDT, all of the syntactic tags can be appendedwith a suffix in the event that the given node is member of acoordinated construction (_Co), an apposition (_Ap) or aparenthetical statement (_Pa).46In order to retrieve the arguments realisedfor each verbal occurrence in the treebank, spe-cific database queries have been created tosearch for the nodes depending on a verbal headthrough the functional tags listed above.The head-dependent relation can be eitherdirect or indirect, since intermediate nodes mayintervene.
These nodes are prepositions (tagAuxP), conjunctions (tag AuxC) and coordinat-ing or apposing elements (respectively, tags Co-ord and Apos).For example, see the following sentences:- [1] ?primo determinat formam baptismi;?7(?at first it determines the form of the bap-tism;?
)- [2] ?ly aliquid autem, et ly unum non deter-minant aliquam formam vel naturam;?8 (?the?something?
and the ?one?
do not determineany form or nature?
)Figure 1 reports the tree of sentence [1],where the Obj relation between the verbal headdeterminat and the dependent formam is direct.Figure 1.Tree of sentence [1]Figure 2 shows the tree of sentence [2].
Inthis tree, two coordinated subjects (aliquid andunum) and two coordinated objects (formam andnaturam) depend on the common verbal headdeterminant through two different Coord nodes(et and vel)9.7 Thomas, Super Sententiis Petri Lombardi, IV, Distinctio 3,Quaestio 1, Prologus, 41-6, 42-2.
The edition of the textrecorded in the IT is Thomas (1856-1858).8 Thomas, Super Sententiis Petri Lombardi, III, Distinctio 6,Quaestio 2, Articulus 1, Responsio ad Argumentum 7, 4-5,6-1.9 Following PDT-style, the distributed determination ali-quam, which modifies both the coordinated objects formamFigure 2Tree of sentence [2]In the case of indirect relation, the interme-diate nodes need to be detected and extracted, inorder to be inserted into the lexicon as subcate-gorization structures containing the syntacticroles of the verbal arguments.
To represent thesestructures, we distinguished two major types ofthem: subcategorization frames (SCFs) and sub-categorization classes (SCCs).An SCF contains the sequence of functionallabels of verbal arguments as they appear in thesentence order, whereas an SCC reports the sub-categorization elements disregarding their linearorder in the sentence.
SCFs and SCCs play a dif-ferent role in our lexicon.
On the one hand, SCFsare very detailed patterns useful for diachronicand/or comparative studies on linear order.
Onthe other hand, SCCs are more general and makethe data in the lexicon comparable with the sub-categorization structures as usually defined in theliterature and in other valency lexicons.
For eachof these structures we then created the followingsub-types, ranging from the most specific to theleast specific one.SCF1: subcategorization frame marking thefull path between the verbal head (referred to as?V?)
and each of its argument nodes in the tree.SCF1 also assigns the same index to those argu-ment nodes linked by coordinating or apposingelements.
For instance, the SCF1 of the verbaland naturam, depends on the coordinating node vel.
Formore details, see Hajic et al (1999), 236-238.47head determino10 in sentence [1] is ?V + Obj?,while in sentence [2] is ?
(Coord)Sb_Co(1) + (Co-ord)Sb_Co(1) + V + (Coord)Obj_Co(2) + (Co-ord)Obj_Co(2)?.
In the latter, the intermediatenodes Coord are in square brackets and indices 1and 2 link the coordinated nodes.
These indiceshave been adopted in order to disambiguate sub-categorization structures where more Obj_Cotags can refer to different verbal arguments.
Forinstance, in a sentence like ?I give X and Y to Wand Z?, both the tranferred objects (X and Y) andthe receivers (W and Z) are annotated withObj_Co.
Using indices, the subcategorizationstructure of the verb give in this sentence appearsas follows: ?Sb + V + (Coord)Obj_Co(1) + (Co-ord)Obj_Co(1) + (Coord)Obj_Co(2) + (Co-ord)Obj_Co(2)?.
The indices cannot be applied apriori to subsequent arguments, since Latin, al-lowing discontinuous constituents, can showcases where coindexed nodes are separated byother lexical items in the linear order.SCC1: the subcategorization class associatedwith SCF1.
The SCC1 of the verb determino in[1] is ?
{Obj}?, while in [2] is ?
{(Coord)Sb_Co(1),(Coord)Sb_Co(1), (Coord)Obj_Co(2), (Co-ord)Obj_Co(2)}?.SCF2: a subcategorization frame containingonly the labels and the indices of the arguments,but not the full path.
So, the SCF2 of determinoin [1] is ?V + Obj?, while in [2] is ?Sb_Co(1) +Sb_Co(1) + V + Obj_Co(2) + Obj_Co(2)?.SCC2: the subcategorization class associatedwith SCF2.
For determino, this is ?{Obj}?
in [1]and ?
{Sb_Co(1), Sb_Co(1), Obj_Co(2), Obj_Co(2)}?in [2].SCC3: a subcategorization frame containingonly the argument labels.
The SCC3 of determinois ?{Obj}?
in [1] and ?
{Sb, Obj}?
in [2], showingthat in this sentence determino is used as a biar-gumental verb, regardless of the number of lexi-cal fillers realised for each of its arguments at thesurface level.6 Conclusion and future workPresently, the size of the IT-TB valency lexiconis 432 entries (i.e.
verbal lemmata, correspondingto 5966 wordforms), with 270 different SCF1s.
Inthe near future, the lexicon will be enriched withvalency information for nouns and adjectives.The corpus-based approach we followed in-duces verbal arguments directly from annotateddata, where the arguments may be present or not,10 Determino is the lemma of both the wordforms determi-nat (sentence [1]) and determinant (sentence [2]).depending on the features of the texts.
Therefore,the lexicon reflects the empirical evidence givenby the data it was extracted from, encouraginglinguistic studies on the particular language do-main of our corpus.In addition to the syntactic information re-ported in the different types of SCFs and SCCs,it is possible at each stage to include both themorphological features and the lexical fillers ofverbal arguments, helping define verbal selec-tional preferences.The lexicon may also be useful for improv-ing the performance of statistical parsers, enrich-ing the information acquired by parsers on verbalentries.
On the other hand, moving from parserperformance to lexicon development, the lexiconcan be induced from automatically parsed textswhen an accurate parsing system is available.The syntactic and lexical data recorded in thelexicon are also important in further semanticNLP applications, such as word sense disam-biguation, anaphora and ellipsis resolution, andselectional preference acquisition.
Following awidespread approach in valency lexicons, a closeconnection between valency frames and wordsenses will be followed in the description of lexi-con entries: this means that each headword entryof our lexicon will consist of one or more SCFsand SCCs, one for each sense of the word.We plan to make the lexicon available on-line through a graphical interface usable alsoduring the annotation procedures, as has beenalready done for the PDT via the tree editorTrEd.11 In this way, the consistency of the anno-tation process can be tested and enforced thanksto the information stored in the lexicon.In order to test the accuracy of our system, itwill be also necessary to evaluate the quality ofour valency lexicon against the Perseus ?dy-namic lexicon?, Happ?s list and other existingresources for Latin, such as traditional dictionar-ies and thesauri.
A comparison with the lexiconby Perseus is also very interesting in a contras-tive diachronic perspective, as it may show im-portant linguistic differences between Classicaland Medieval Latin.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Paolo Ruffolo for hishelp in designing the database architecture.References11 TrEd is freely available athttp://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/~pajas/tred/.48David Bamman.
2006.
The Design and Use of LatinDependency Treebank.
In Jan Haji?
and JoakimNivre (eds.
), TLT 2006.
Proceedings of the FifthWorkshop on Treebanks and Linguistic Theories.December 1-2, 2006, Prague, Czech Republic, In-stitute of Formal and Applied Linguistics, Prague,Czech Republic, 67-78.David Bamman and Gregory Crane.
2008.
Building aDynamic Lexicon from a Digital Library.
In Pro-ceedings of the 8th ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Confer-ence on Digital Libraries (JCDL 2008), Pittsburgh.David Bamman, Marco Passarotti, Gregory Crane andSavina Raynaud.
2007a.
Guidelines for the Syntac-tic Annotation of Latin Treebanks, ?Tufts Univer-sity Digital Library?.
Available at:http://dl.tufts.edu/view_pdf.jsp?urn=tufts:facpubs:dbamma01-2007.00002.David Bamman, Marco Passarotti, Gregory Crane andSavina Raynaud.
2007b.
A Collaborative Model ofTreebank Development.
In Koenraad De Smedt,Jan Haji?
and Sandra K?bler (eds.
), Proceedings ofthe Sixth International Workshop on Treebanksand Linguistic Theories.
December 7-8, 2007, Ber-gen, Norway, Northern European Association forLanguage Technology (NEALT) Proceedings Se-ries, Vol.
1, 1-6.David Bamman, Marco Passarotti, Roberto Busa andGregory Crane.
2008.
The annotation guidelines ofthe Latin Dependency Treebank and Index Thomis-ticus Treebank.
The treatment of some specificsyntactic constructions in Latin.
In Proceedings ofthe Sixth International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2008).
May 28-30, 2008, Marrakech, Morocco, European Lan-guage Resources Association (ELRA), 2008.Karl B?hler.
1934.
Sprachtheorie: die Darstellungs-funktion der Sprache, Jena: Gustav Fischer, Stutt-gart.Roberto Busa.
1974?1980.
Index Thomisticus: sanctiThomae Aquinatis operum omnium indices et con-cordantiae, in quibus verborum omnium et singu-lorum formae et lemmata cum suis frequentiis etcontextibus variis modis referuntur quaeque / con-sociata plurium opera atque electronico IBMautomato usus digessit Robertus Busa SJ, From-mann-Holzboog, Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt.Gregory R. Crane, Robert F. Chavez, Anne Mahoney,Thomas L. Milbank, Jeff A. Rydberg-Cox, DavidA.
Smith and Clifford E. Wulfman.
2001.
Drudg-ery and deep thought: Designing a digital libraryfor the humanities.
In Communications of theACM, 44(5), 34-40.John Carroll, Ted Briscoe and Antonio Sanfilippo.1998.
Parser Evaluation: a Survey and a New Pro-posal.
In Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evalua-tion (LREC 1998).
May 28-30, 1998, Granada,Spain, 447-454.Joseph Denooz.
1996.
La banque de donn?es du labo-ratoire d'analyse statistique des langues anciennes(LASLA).
?
Le M?di?viste et l'ordinateur ?, 33, 14-20.Jan Haji?, Jarmila Panevov?, Eva Bur?
?ov?, Zde?kaUre?ov?
and Alla B?mov?.
1999.
Annotations atAnalytical Level.
Instructions for annotators, Insti-tute of Formal and Applied Linguistics, Prague,Czech Republic.
Available at:http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.0/doc/manuals/en/a-layer/pdf/a-man-en.pdf.Jan Haji?, Jarmila Panevov?, Zde?ka Ure?ov?, AllaB?mov?, Veronika Kol?rov?-Rezn?ckov?
and PetrPajas.
2003.
PDT-VALLEX: Creating a LargeCoverage Valency Lexicon for Treebank Annota-tion.
In Joakim Nivre and Erhard Hinrichs (eds.
),TLT 2003 ?
Proceedings of the Second Workshopon Treebanks and Linguistic Theories, volume 9 ofMathematical Modelling in Physics, Engineeringand Cognitive Sciences, V?xj?
University Press,V?xj?, Sweden, 57-68.Heinz Happ.
1976.
Grundfragen einer Dependenz-Grammatik des Lateinischen, Vandenhoeck & Ru-precht, Goettingen.Dag Haug and Marius J?hndal.
2008.
Creating a Par-allel Treebank of the Old Indo-European BibleTranslations.
In Proceedings of the LanguageTechnology for Cultural Heritage Data Workshop(LaTeCH 2008), Marrakech, Morocco, 1st June2008, 27-34.Peter Hellwig.
1986.
Dependency Unification Gram-mar, In Proceedings of the 11th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics, Universit?tBonn, Bonn, 195-198.Richard Hudson.
1990.
English Word Grammar,Blackwell Publishers Ltd, Oxford, UK.Paul Kingsbury and Martha Palmer.
2002.
FromTreebank to Propbank.
In Proceedings of the ThirdInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC 2002), Las Palmas ?
GranCanaria, Spain.Anna Korhonen, Yuval Krymolowski and TedBriscoe.
2006.
A Large Subcategorization Lexiconfor Natural Language Processing Applications.
InProceedings of the Fifth International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2006), Genoa, Italy.Matthias T. Kromann.
2003.
The Danish DependencyTreebank and the underlying linguistic theory.
InJoakim Nivre and Erhard Hinrichs (eds.
), TLT2003 ?
Proceedings of the Second Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories, volume 9 ofMathematical Modelling in Physics, Engineeringand Cognitive Sciences, V?xj?
University Press,V?xj?, Sweden.Leonardo Lesmo, Vincenzo Lombardo and CristinaBosco.
2002.
Treebank Development: the TUTApproach.
In Rajeev Sangal and Sushma M.Bendre (eds.
), Recent Advances in NaturalLanguage Processing.
Proceedings ofInternational Conference on Natural Language49Processing (ICON 2002), Vikas Publ.
House, NewDelhi, 61-70.Beth Levin.
1993.
English verb classes andalternations: a preliminary investigation,University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Dekang Lin.
1995.
A dependency-based method forevaluating broadcoverage parsers.
In Proceedingsof the IJCAI-95, Montreal, Canada, 1420-1425.Igor Mel??uk.
1988.
Dependency Syntax: Theory andPractice, State University Press of New York, Al-bany/NY.Cedric Messiant, Anna Korhonen and ThierryPoibeau.
2008.
LexSchem: A LargeSubcategorization Lexicon for French Verbs.
InProceedings of the Sixth International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2008).
May 28-30, 2008, Marrakech, Morocco,European Language Resources Association(ELRA), 2008.Jarmila Panevov?.
1974-1975.
On Verbal Frames inFunctional Generative Description.
Part I, ?PragueBulletin of Mathematical Linguistics?, 22, 3-40;Part II, ?Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguis-tics?, 23, 17-52.Marco Passarotti.
2007.
Verso il Lessico TomisticoBiculturale.
La treebank dell?Index Thomisticus.
InRaffaella Petrilli and Diego Femia (eds.
), Il filo deldiscorso.
Intrecci testuali, articolazioni linguisti-che, composizioni logiche.
Atti del XIII CongressoNazionale della Societ?
di Filosofia del Linguag-gio, Viterbo, 14-16 Settembre 2006, Aracne Editri-ce, Pubblicazioni della Societ?
di Filosofia delLinguaggio, 04, Roma, 187-205.Marco Passarotti.
Forthcoming.
Theory and Practiceof Corpus Annotation in the Index ThomisticusTreebank.
In Proceedings of the Conference?Trends in Computational and Formal Philology -Venice Padua, May 22-24, 2008?.Josef Ruppenhofer, Michael Ellsworth, Miriam R.L.Petruck, Christopher R. Johnson and JanScheffczyk.
2006.
FrameNet II.
Extendend Theoryand Practice.
E-book available athttp://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu/index.php?option=com_wrapper&Itemid=126.Petr Sgall, Eva Haji?ov?
and Jarmila Panevov?.
1986.The Meaning of the Sentence in its Semantic andPragmatic Aspects, D. Reidel, Dordrecht, NL.Lucien Tesni?re.
1959.
?l?ments de syntaxe struc-turale, Editions Klincksieck, Paris, France.Thomas Aquinas.
1856-1858.
Sancti ThomaeAquinatis, doctoris angelici, Ordinispraedicatorum Commentum in quatuor librosSententiarum magistri Petri Lombardi, adjectisbrevibus adnotationibus, Fiaccadori, Parma.Zdenka Ure?ov?.
2004.
The Verbal Valency in thePrague Dependency Treebank from the Annotator'sPoint of View.
Jazykovedn?
?stav ?.
?t?ra, SAV,Bratislava, Slovakia.Leonoor Van der Beek, Gosse Bouma, Rob Maloufand Gertjan van Noord.
2002.
The AlpinoDependency Treebank.
In Mariet Theune, AntonNijholt and Hendri Hondorp (eds.
), Proceedings ofthe Twelfth Meeting of Computational Linguisticsin the Netherlands (CLIN 2001), Rodopi,Amsterdam, 8-22.50
