Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , pages 66?69,Athens, Greece, 30 March ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe RWTH Machine Translation System for WMT 2009Maja Popovic?, David Vilar, Daniel Stein, Evgeny Matusov and Hermann NeyRWTH Aachen UniversityAachen, GermanyAbstractRWTH participated in the shared transla-tion task of the Fourth Workshop of Sta-tistical Machine Translation (WMT 2009)with the German-English, French-Englishand Spanish-English pair in each transla-tion direction.
The submissions were gen-erated using a phrase-based and a hierar-chical statistical machine translation sys-tems with appropriate morpho-syntacticenhancements.
POS-based reorderings ofthe source language for the phrase-basedsystems and splitting of German com-pounds for both systems were applied.
Forsome tasks, a system combination wasused to generate a final hypothesis.
An ad-ditional English hypothesis was producedby combining all three final systems fortranslation into English.1 IntroductionFor the WMT 2009 shared task, RWTH submit-ted translations for the German-English, French-English and Spanish-English language pair in bothdirections.
A phrase-based translation system en-hanced with appropriate morpho-syntactic trans-formations was used for all translation direc-tions.
Local POS-based word reorderings were ap-plied for the Spanish-English and French-Englishpair, and long range reorderings for the German-English pair.
For this language pair splittingof German compounds was also applied.
Spe-cial efforts were made for the French-English andGerman-English translation, where a hierarchi-cal system was also used and the final submis-sions are the result of a system combination.
Fortranslation into English, an additional hypothesiswas produced as a result of combination of thefinal German-to-English, French-to-English andSpanish-to-English systems.2 Translation models2.1 Phrase-based modelWe used a standard phrase-based system similar tothe one described in (Zens et al, 2002).
The pairsof source and corresponding target phrases are ex-tracted from the word-aligned bilingual trainingcorpus.
Phrases are defined as non-empty contigu-ous sequences of words.
The phrase translationprobabilities are estimated using relative frequen-cies.
In order to obtain a more symmetric model,the phrase-based model is used in both directions.2.2 Hierarchical modelThe hierarchical phrase-based approach can beconsidered as an extension of the standard phrase-based model.
In this model we allow the phrasesto have ?gaps?, i.e.
we allow non-contiguous partsof the source sentence to be translated into pos-sibly non-contiguous parts of the target sentence.The model can be formalized as a synchronouscontext-free grammar (Chiang, 2007).
The modelalso included some additional heuristics whichhave shown to be helpful for improving translationquality, as proposed in (Vilar et al, 2008).The first step in the hierarchical phrase extrac-tion is the same as for the phrased-based model.Having a set of initial phrases, we search forphrases which contain other smaller sub-phrasesand produce a new phrase with gaps.
In our sys-tem, we restricted the number of non-terminals foreach hierarchical phrase to a maximum of two,which were also not allowed to be adjacent.
Thescores of the phrases are again computed as rela-tive frequencies.2.3 Common modelsFor both translation models, phrase-based and hi-erarchical, additional common models were used:word-based lexicon model, phrase penalty, wordpenalty and target language model.66The target language model was a standard n-gram language model trained by the SRI languagemodeling toolkit (Stolcke, 2002).
The smooth-ing technique we apply was the modified Kneser-Ney discounting with interpolation.
In our case weused a 4-gram language model.3 Morpho-syntactic transformations3.1 POS-based word reorderingsFor the phrase-based systems, the local andlong range POS-based reordering rules describedin (Popovic?
and Ney, 2006) were applied on thetraining and test corpora as a preprocessing step.Local reorderings were used for the Spanish-English and French-English language pairs in or-der to handle differences between the positions ofnouns and adjectives in the two languages.
Adjec-tives in Spanish and French, as in most Romaniclanguages, are usually placed after the correspond-ing noun, whereas for English it is the other wayround.
Therefore, for these language pairs localreorderings of nouns and adjective groups in thesource language were applied.
The following se-quences of words are considered to be an adjectivegroup: a single adjective, two or more consecutiveadjectives, a sequence of adjectives and coordinateconjunctions, as well as an adjective along with itscorresponding adverb.
If the source language isSpanish or French, each noun is moved behind thecorresponding adjective group.
If the source lan-guage is English, each adjective group is movedbehind the corresponding noun.Long range reorderings were applied on theverb groups for the German-English language pair.Verbs in the German language can often be placedat the end of a clause.
This is mostly the casewith infinitives and past participles, but there aremany cases when other verb forms also occur atthe clause end.
For the translation from Germaninto English, following verb types were moved to-wards the beginning of a clause: infinitives, infini-tives+zu, finite verbs, past participles and negativeparticles.
For the translation from English to Ger-man, infinitives and past participles were movedto the end of a clause, where punctuation marks,subordinate conjunctions and finite verbs are con-sidered as the beginning of the next clause.3.2 German compound wordsFor the translation from German into English, Ger-man compounds were split using the frequency-based method described in (Koehn and Knight,2003).
For the other translation direction, the En-glish text was first translated into the modifiedGerman language with split compounds.
The gen-erated output was then postprocessed, i.e.
thecomponents were merged using the method de-scribed in (Popovic?
et al, 2006): a list of com-pounds and a list of components are extracted fromthe original German training corpus.
If the wordin the generated output is in the component list,check if this word merged with the next word is inthe compound list.
If it is, merge the two words.4 System combinationFor system combination we used the approach de-scribed in (Matusov et al, 2006).
The method isbased on the generation of a consensus transla-tion out of the output of different translation sys-tems.
The core of the method consists in buildinga confusion network for each sentence by align-ing and combining the (single-best) translation hy-pothesis from one MT system with the translationsproduced by the other MT systems (and the othertranslations from the same system, if n-best listsare used in combination).
For each sentence, eachMT system is selected once as ?primary?
system,and the other hypotheses are aligned to this hy-pothesis.
The resulting confusion networks arecombined into a signle word graph, which is thenweighted with system-specific factors, similar tothe approach of (Rosti et al, 2007), and a trigramLM trained on the MT hypotheses.
The translationwith the best total score within this word graph isselected as consensus translation.
The scaling fac-tors of these models are optimized using the Con-dor toolkit (Berghen and Bersini, 2005) to achieveoptimal BLEU score on the dev set.5 Experimental results5.1 Experimental settingsFor all translation directions, we used the providedEuroParl and News parallel corpora to train thetranslation models and the News monolingual cor-pora to train the language models.
All systemswere optimised for the BLEU score on the develop-ment data (the ?dev-a?
part of the 2008 evaluationdata).
The other part of the 2008 evaluation set(?dev-b?)
is used as a blind test set.
The results re-ported in the next section will be referring to thistest set.
For the tasks including a system combi-nation, the parameters for the system combination67were also trained on the ?dev-b?
set.
The reportedevaluation metrics are the BLEU score and twosyntax-oriented metrics which have shown a highcorrelation with human evaluations: the PBLEUscore (BLEU calculated on POS sequences) andthe POS-F-score PF (similar to the BLEU score butbased on the F-measure instead of precision andon arithmetic mean instead of geometric mean).The POS tags used for reorderings and for syn-tactic evaluation metrics for the English and theGerman corpora were generated using the statisti-cal n-gram-based TnT-tagger (Brants, 2000).
TheSpanish corpora are annotated using the FreeLinganalyser (Carreras et al, 2004), and the Frenchtexts using the TreeTagger1.5.2 Translation resultsTable 1 presents the results for the German-English language pair.
For translation from Ger-man into English, results for the phrase-based sys-tem with and without verb reordering and com-pound splitting are shown.
The hierarchical sys-tem was trained with split German compounds.The final submission was produced by combiningthose five systems.
The improvement obtained bysystem combination on the unseen test data 2009is similar, i.e.
from the systems with BLEU scoresof 17.0%, 17.2%, 17.5%, 17.6% and 17.7% to thefinal system with 18.5%.German?English BLEU PBLEU PFphrase-based 17.8 31.6 39.7+reorder verbs 18.2 32.6 40.3+split compounds 18.0 31.9 40.0+reord+split 18.4 33.1 40.7hierarchical+split 18.5 33.5 40.1system combination 19.2 33.8 40.9English?German BLEU PBLEU PFphrase-based 13.6 31.6 39.7+reorder verbs 13.7 32.4 40.2+split compounds 13.7 32.3 40.1+reord+split 13.7 32.3 40.1system combination 14.0 32.7 40.3Table 1: Translation results [%] for the German-English language pair, News2008 dev-b.The other translation direction is more difficultand improvements from morpho-syntactic trans-1http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/corplex/TreeTagger/formations are smaller.
No hierarchical systemwas trained for this translation direction.
The com-bination of the four phrase-based systems leadsto further improvements (on the unseen test setas well: contrastive hypotheses have the BLEUscores in the range from 12.7% to 13.0%, and thefinal BLEU score is 13.2%).The results for the French-English languagepair are shown in Table 2.
For the French-to-English system, we submitted the result of thecombination of three systems: a phrase-based withand without local reorderings and a hierarchicalsystem.
For the unseen test set, the BLEU score ofthe system combination output is 24.4%, whereasthe contrastive hypotheses have 23.2%, 23.4% and24.1%.
For the other translation direction we didnot use the system combination, the submission isproduced by the phrase-based system with localadjective reorderings.French?English BLEU PBLEU PFphrase-based 20.9 37.1 43.2+reorder adjectives 21.3 38.2 43.6hierarchical 20.3 36.7 42.6system combination 21.7 38.5 43.8English?French BLEU PBLEU PFphrase-based 20.2 39.5 45.9+reorder adjectives 20.7 40.6 46.4Table 2: Translation results [%] for the French-English language pair, News2008 dev-b.Table 3 presents the results for the Spanish-English language pair.
As in the English-to-French translation, the phrase-based system withadjective reorderings is used to produce the sub-mitted hypothesis for both translation directions.Spanish?English BLEU PBLEU PFphrase-based 22.1 38.5 44.1+reorder adjectives 22.5 39.2 44.6English?Spanish BLEU PBLEU PFphrase-based 20.6 29.3 35.7+reorder adjectives 21.1 29.7 35.9Table 3: Translation results [%] for the Spanish-English language pair, News2008 dev-b.68The result of the additional experiment, i.e.
forthe multisource translation int English is presentedin Table 4.
The English hypothesis is produced bythe combination of the three best systems for eachlanguage pair, and it can be seen that the transla-tion performance increases in all measures.
Thissuggests that each language pair poses differentdifficulties for the translation task, and the com-bination of all three can improve performance.F+S+G?English BLEU PBLEU PFsystem combination 25.1 41.0 46.4Table 4: Multisource translation results [%]:the English hypothesis is obtained as result ofa system combination of all language pairs,News2008 dev-b.6 ConclusionsThe RWTH system submitted to the WMT 2009shared translation task used a phrase-based sys-tem and a hierarchical system with appropriatemorpho-syntactic extensions, i.e.
POS based wordreorderings and splitting of German compoundswere used.
System combination produced gainsin BLEU score over phrasal-system baselines inthe German-to-English, English-to-German andFrench-to-English tasks.AcknowledgmentsThis work was realised as part of the Quaero Pro-gramme, funded by OSEO, French State agencyfor innovation.ReferencesFrank Vanden Berghen and Hugues Bersini.
2005.CONDOR, a new parallel, constrained extension ofPowell?s UOBYQA algorithm: Experimental resultsand comparison with the DFO algorithm.
Journal ofComputational and Applied Mathematics, 181:157?175.Thorsten Brants.
2000.
Tnt ?
a statistical part-of-speech tagger.
In Proceedings of the 6th AppliedNatural Language Processing Conference (ANLP),pages 224?231, Seattle, WA.Xavier Carreras, Isaac Chao, Llu?
?s Padro?, and MuntsaPadro?.
2004.
FreeLing: An Open-Source Suite ofLanguage Analyzers.
In Proceedings 4th Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Eval-uation (LREC), pages 239?242, Lisbon, Portugal,May.David Chiang.
2007.
Hierarchical phrase-based trans-lation.
Computational Linguistics, (33):201?228.Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight.
2003.
Empiri-cal methods for compound splitting.
In Proceed-ings 10th Conference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (EACL),pages 347?354, Budapest, Hungary, April.Evgeny Matusov, Nicola Ueffing, and Hermann Ney.2006.
Computing Consensus Translation from Mul-tiple Machine Translation Systems Using EnhancedHypotheses Alignment.
In Proceedings of EACL2006 (11th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics),pages 33?40, Trento, Italy, April.Maja Popovic?
and Hermann Ney.
2006.
POS-basedWord Reorderings for Statistical Machine Trans-lation.
In Proceedings of the Fifth InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC), pages 1278?1283, Genoa, Italy, May.Maja Popovic?, Daniel Stein, and Hermann Ney.
2006.Statistical machine translation of german compoundwords.
In Proceedings of the 5th International Con-ference on Natural Language Processing (FinTAL),pages 616?624, Turku, Finland, August.
LectureNotes in Computer Science, Springer Verlag.Antti-Veikko Rosti, Necip Fazil Ayan, Bing Xiang,Spyros Matsoukas, Richard Schwartz, and BonnieDorr.
2007.
Combining Outputs from Multiple Ma-chine Translation Systems.
In Human LanguageTechnologies 2007: The Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics; Proceedings of the Main Confer-ence, pages 228?235, Rochester, New York, April.Association for Computational Linguistics.Andreas Stolcke.
2002.
SRILM ?
an extensible lan-guage modeling toolkit.
In Proceedings Interna-tional Conference on Spoken Language Processing(ICSLP), volume 2, pages 901?904, Denver, CO.David Vilar, Daniel Stein, and Hermann Ney.
2008.Analysing soft syntax features and heuristics for hi-erarchical phrase based machine translation.
Inter-national Workshop on Spoken Language Translation2008, pages 190?197, October.Richard Zens, Franz Josef Och, and Hermann Ney.2002.
Phrase-based statistical machine translation.In M. Jarke, J. Koehler, and G. Lakemeyer, editors,25th German Conference on Artificial Intelligence(KI2002), volume 2479 of Lecture Notes in Artifi-cial Intelligence (LNAI), pages 18?32, Aachen, Ger-many, September.
Springer Verlag.69
