Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 166?169,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPAnnotating Discourse AnaphoraStefanie DipperInstitute of LinguisticsBochum Universitydipper@linguistics.rub.deHeike ZinsmeisterInstitute of LinguisticsKonstanz UniversityHeike.Zinsmeister@uni-konstanz.deAbstractIn this paper, we present preliminary work oncorpus-based anaphora resolution of discoursedeixis in German.
Our annotation guidelinesprovide linguistic tests for locating the antecedent,and for determining the semantic types of both theantecedent and the anaphor.
The corpus consists ofselected speaker turns from the Europarl corpus.1 IntroductionAn important component of text understanding isanaphora resolution, i.e.
to determine the refer-ence of constituents whose interpretation dependson (the reference of) other textual elements.
Themajority of anaphora are instances of noun phraseanaphora, which relate a noun phrase anaphor toa nominal antecedent.
Grammatical restrictions(gender, number agreement) and saliency (gram-matical function, recency) guide the resolutionprocess in these cases.
In addition to pronouns,definite noun phrases can be viewed as anaphoricin that they may corefer to some other NP in thegiven context.
To solve the latter type of anaphora,lexical semantic knowledge is required, as pro-vided by an ontology or a database like WordNet.Another type of anaphora is discourse deixis(Webber 1988; 1991), which relates a noun phraseanaphor to a verbal or (multi-)clausal antecedent.The discourse entities that are introduced byantecedents of discourse deictic pronouns arecalled ?abstract objects?
since they refer to prop-erties and propositional entities (Asher, 1993).Grammatical restrictions cannot apply since theantecedent is non-nominal and the anaphor?commonly in the form of a personal or demonstra-tive pronoun?is usually in neuter singular.
Weassume that in addition to saliency the resolutionprocess needs to take semantic restrictions into ac-count (cf.
Hegarty et al (2002)).The automatic procedure of our research effortcan be envisaged as follows: Given some text wefirst locate discourse anaphors.
Next, the semantic(= abstract) type of each anaphor is determined,based on contextual features that are derived fromannotated corpus data.
The anaphor?s semantictype restricts the semantic type of the antecedent,and thus narrows down the search space.
Finally,the antecedent is located with the help of these se-mantic restrictions and, again, with contextual fea-tures derived from the corpus.2 Related WorkCorpus-based studies have shown that abstract ob-jects are less salient than other discourse referents,which has an effect on the choice of the anaphoricelement (Hegarty et al, 2002).
The abstract typeof the antecedent and that of the anaphor do notnecessarily coincide.
The data suggests that refer-ence to other types (referred to in the literature ascoercion) is possible only in accordance to an ab-stractness hierarchy (Hegarty, 2003; Consten andKnees, 2005; Consten et al, 2007).
The hierarchystarts with events as the most concrete type, whichare anchored in spatial-temporal dimensions, andends with propositions as the most abstract types.Anaphoric reference is possible to antecedents thatare of the same type or less abstract than theanaphor (Consten and Knees, 2005).Most works concerning the annotation ofanaphora resolution do not make reference to ab-stract entities.
OntoNotes, for example, only an-notates reference to verbs (Pradhan et al, 2007).Annotation research efforts on discourse deixis in-clude: Eckert and Strube (2000), Byron (2002),Poesio and Modjeska (2005), Poesio and Artstein(2008), and Mu?ller (2007) for English; Navarretta(2000) for Danish; and Recasens (2008) for Span-ish/Catalan.
To our knowledge, there has been noattempt to systematically annotate such a corpusof German.166Test: Die Zusammenfu?hrung der nationalen und europa?ischen Ebene ist sehr wohl notwendig , obwohl natu?rlich dieHauptta?tigkeit in den Mitgliedstaaten stattfinden sollte und nur dann auf europa?ischer Ebene eingegriffen werden sollte ,wenn dies ?
na?mlich auf europa?ischer Ebene einzugreifen ?
unbedingt notwendig ist .Anno: Die Zusammenfu?hrung der nationalen und europa?ischen Ebene ist sehr wohl notwendig , obwohl natu?rlich dieHauptta?tigkeit in den Mitgliedstaaten stattfinden sollte und nur dann [auf europa?ischer Ebene eingegriffen]prop werdensollte , wenn [dies]prop unbedingt notwendig ist .Engl: ?It is indeed necessary to bring the national and European levels together, even though, of course, the main work shouldbe done in the Member States, with the European level intervening only when this is absolutely necessary.
?Figure 1: Paraphrase test to determine the extension of the antecedent.3 The CorpusOur corpus consists of texts from the Europarl cor-pus (Koehn, 2005).
As our basis, we selected allcontributions whose original language is German(including Austrian German).For the annotation task, we isolated medium-sized turns, consisting of 15?20 sentences.
Thiswas done to guarantee that the turns were nottoo lengthy but still provided enough informationfor the annotators to understand the broader con-text of discussion, so that they could resolve theanaphors without comprehension problems.
Fromthese turns, we selected those that contained theanaphor dies ?this?.
This is the only anaphor inGerman which unambiguously refers to discourseunits.4 The GuidelinesOur guidelines are based on theoretical researchon discourse semantics as well as work on anno-tating discourse phenomena.Given some discourse anaphor (i.e., anaphoricdas, dies, was, es ?that, this, which, it?
), the guide-lines define (i) how to locate the antecedent, (ii)how to determine the semantic type of the an-tecedent, and (iii) how to determine the seman-tic type of the anaphor.
For each of these tasks,the guidelines provide linguistic tests (Dipper andZinsmeister, 2009).4.1 Locating the antecedentTo determine the antecedent of the anaphoric re-lation, a ?paraphrase test?
is applied: The anno-tator supplements the anaphor by a paraphrase inthe form of na?mlich .
.
.
?namely .
.
.
?.
The partthat fills the .
.
.
corresponds to the antecedent thatwe are looking for, cf.
Fig.
1.1 Antecedents can1The Test line displays the sentence with the anaphor(marked in bold-face) followed by the inserted paraphrase(in bold-face and italics).
The Anno line shows the same ex-consist of VPs, (fragments of) main or subordinateclauses, or multiple sentences.24.2 The semantic type of the antecedentWe distinguish 10 types of propositional enti-ties.
Many verbs prototypically denote one typeof propositional entity; gewinnen ?win?, for in-stance, usually expresses an event.
Often, how-ever, the type of entity that is denoted depends onthe context and usage of the verb; Hans hat A?pfelgegessen (?Hans ate apples?)
denotes a process,whereas Hans hat zwei A?pfel gegessen (?Hans atetwo apples?)
denotes an event because the actionhas an end (when both apples are eaten)?i.e., theaction is telic.
The semantic types are defined interms of the following features: world-dependent,time-dependent, dynamic, telic, and modal (withsubtypes deontic and epistemic, generic, subjec-tive) (see e.g., Vendler (1967), Asher (1993)).
Ta-ble 1 displays the different types of propositionalentities and their defining features.
It also lists thelabels used for annotating these entities.
The en-tity types are ordered according to their degree ofabstractness.The entity type ?deict?
(deictic) does not fit inthe abstractness hierarchy of the table.
It refersto extra-linguistic entities, such as the external sit-uation, or an issue that is currently the focus ofattention in parliament, etc.ample with the identified antecedent underlined.
Both theantecedent and the anaphor are labeled with their seman-tic types (see below).
The Engl line presents an Englishtranslation that is based on the original translations from Eu-roparl.
We used the tool OPUS (http://urd.let.rug.nl/tiedeman/OPUS) to retrieve the English translations.2E.g., the anaphor dies alles ?all this?
often refers toan antecedent consisting of multiple sentences.
The ac-tual antecedent can diverge from the one constructed bythe paraphrase test in minor aspects, such as active-passive-alternations, or bare infinitive vs. zu-infinitive vs. participle.In some cases, the divergences are more important and couldinvolve, for instance, the insertion or modification of the mainverb.
In such cases, annotators were asked to note and recordthe differences.167Prop.
Entity Label Defining Features Replacement TestW T Dyn Tel Mod1.
Event ev + + + + - Ereignis (?event?)2.
Process proc + + + - - Vorgang (?process?)3.
State state + + - (-) - Zustand (?state?)4.
Circumstance circ + + - - - Umstand (?circumstance?)5.
Modal (deontic+ epistemic)mod + + - - mod Notwendigkeit, Mo?glichkeit, Chance, .
.
.
(?ne-cessity, possibility, opportunity, .
.
.
?)6.
Opinion, claim op + + - - subj Meinung, Ansicht, Behauptung, Einscha?tzung,Forderung, .
.
.
(?opinion, view, claim, assess-ment, request, .
.
.
?)7.
Generic gen + +/- - - gen wohlbekannte, allgemeingu?ltige Tatsache (?thewell-known, universal fact?)8.
Fact fact + +/- +/- +/- - Tatsache (?fact?)9.
Proposition prop - - +/- +/- - (Art von) Aktivita?t, Aktion, Eigenschaft, .
.
.?
(kind of) activity, action, property, .
.
.
?
)Table 1: Semantic types and their defining features: W(orld), T(ime), Dyn(amic), (Tel)ic, Mod(al)4.3 The semantic type of the anaphorTo determine the type of anaphors, we defined a?replacement test?.
With this test, the demonstra-tive anaphor dies, das, etc.
is replaced by a suitableNP, such as dieses Ereignis, dieser Vorgang.
Thehead noun indicates the type of the propositionalentity (e.g., event, process).3 Table 1 lists the dif-ferent types of propositional entities and suitablereplacement nouns.
The annotators are asked tochoose the most concrete, suitable noun.5 ResultsAs a first pilot study on the reliability of our an-notation guidelines, two student annotators anno-tated 32 texts that included 48 instances of thedemonstrative pronoun dies ?this?.
The pronounswere marked in bold face, and the annotation wasperformed on paper.
After annotating 17 texts, theannotators discussed their intermediate results.Locating the antecedent: In one case, one ofthe annotators decided on a deictic reading and didnot mark an antecedent at all.
40 out of 47 an-tecedents (85%) were marked with identical spans.In four cases they chose differing but adjacentspans and in one case one of the annotators chosea longer string than the other.The semantic type of the antecedent: Thetype of the antecedents coincided in 28 out of 47cases (60%, ?=0.52).4 Agreement improved af-3We use the term ?semantic type of the anaphor?
in asomewhat sloppy way.
Put more precisely, the ?semantic typeof the anaphor?
indicates the way that the anaphor refers to(parts of) the propositional discourse referent that is denotedby the antecedent.4We computed ?
according to www.asc.upenn.edu/usr/krippendorff/webreliability.doc.ter the discussion period: 11/17 cases matched(?=0.60).The semantic type of the anaphor: The resultswith respect to the semantic type of the anaphorseemed more disappointing: the annotators agreedin only 22 out of 48 instances (46%, ?=0.37).However, after the discussion period, agreementleveled that of the type of the antecedent: 12 outof 17 cases coincided (?=0.66).
In addition to thesemantic type, we annotated the grammatical roleof the anaphor, which occurred as the subject in79% of cases and as objects elsewhere.Annotators agreed most often on the four mostconcrete types (?ev, proc, state, circ?)
and least of-ten on the three most abstract types (?gen, fact,prop?).
This might be due to the fact that the mostabstract types are applicable in many cases, but an-notators are advised to choose the most concretetype that is available.
In the majority of the cases(73%), the anaphor?s type was identical with ormore abstract than the antecedent?s type.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a corpus-driven ap-proach to discourse deictic anaphora in German.We introduced annotation guidelines that providelinguistic tests for locating the antecedent, andfor determining the semantic types of both theantecedent and the anaphor.
Further work willinclude exploitation of contextual information incombination with the semantic types to confine theset of potential antecedents.Our corpus consists of selected speaker turnsfrom the Europarl corpus.
In this study, 32 texts(providing 48 instances of discourse deixis) were168annotated according to these guidelines, and firstresults concerning inter-annotator agreement arepromising (with an agreement of 85% on the ex-tension of the antecedent, 60% on the antecedenttype, and 46% on the type of the anaphor).
Thepilot study indicates that the paraphrase test helpsthe annotators in determining on the extension ofthe abstract antecedent.5 It also shows that the lin-guistic tests for the semantic types have to be re-fined.In the next steps, we will switch from paper-and-pencil annotation to annotation based on thetool MMAX26.
In addition to manually determin-ing the semantic types of anaphors, we will in-vestigate robust, fully-automatic approaches to thederivation of contextual features for anaphora res-olution.
For instance, we plan to take into accountanaphors of the form dieses Ereignis, dieser Um-stand, etc.
(?this event, this circumstance?
), whichexplicitly name the semantic type of the anaphor.In a later step other, more ambiguous, types ofanaphors will be included in the investigation.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank the anonymous review-ers for their helpful comments, and our studentannotators: Doris Aimer, Iris Bra?uning, ChristineEnzinger, Stefanie Konetzka, Barbara Mrzyglod.The work was in part supported by Europa?ischerSozialfonds in Baden-Wu?rttemberg.ReferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objectsin Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, BostonMA.Donna K. Byron.
2002.
Resolving pronominal refer-ence to abstract entities.
In Proceedings of the ACL-02 conference, pages 80?87.Manfred Consten and Mareile Knees.
2005.
Complexanaphors ?
ontology and resolution.
In P. Dekker,editor, Proceedings of the 15th Amsterdam Collo-quium, Amsterdam: University.Manfred Consten, Mareile Knees, and MonikaSchwarz-Friesel.
2007.
The function of com-plex anaphors in texts: Evidence from corpus stud-ies and ontological considerations.
In Anaphorsin Text, pages 81?102.
John Benjamins, Amster-dam/Philadephia.5The study was restricted to instances of the unambiguousanaphor dies ?this?, which might have simplified the task ofselecting an antecedent.6MMAX2: http://mmax2.sourceforge.net/.Stefanie Dipper and Heike Zinsmeister.
2009.
An-notation guidelines ?Discourse-Deictic Anaphora?.Draft.
Universities of Bochum and Konstanz.Miriam Eckert and Michael Strube.
2000.
Dialogueacts, synchronising units and anaphora resolution.Journal of Semantics, 17(1):51?89.Michael Hegarty, Jeanette K. Gundel, and KajaBorthen.
2002.
Information structure and the ac-cessibility of clausally introduced referents.
Theo-retical Linguistics, 27(2-3):163?186.Michael Hegarty.
2003.
Type shifting of Entities inDiscourse.
Presentation at the First InternationalWorkshop on Current Research in the Semantics-Pragmatics Interface, Michigan State University.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpusfor statistical machine translation.
In Proceedingsof MT Summit.Christoph Mu?ller.
2007.
Resolving it, this, and thatin unrestricted multi-party dialog.
In Proceedings ofthe 45th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 816?823,Prague, Czech Republic, June.Costanza Navarretta.
2000.
Abstract Anaphora Res-olution in Danish.
In 1st SIGdial Workshop onDiscourse and Dialogue, pages 56?65, Hong Kong,China, October.Massimo Poesio and Ron Artstein.
2008.
Anaphoricannotation in the ARRAU corpus.
In Proceedingsof the LREC 2008, Marrakech, Morocco.Massimo Poesio and Natalia N. Modjeska.
2005.
Fo-cus, activation, and this-noun phrases: An empiricalstudy.
In Anto?nio Branco, Tony McEnery, and Rus-lan Mitkov, editors, Anaphora Processing, volume263 of Current Issues in Linguistic Theory, pages429?442.
John Benjamins.Sameer Pradhan, Lance Ramshaw, Ralph Weischedel,Jessica MacBride, and Linnea Micciulla.
2007.Unrestricted coreference: Identifying entities andevents in OntoNotes.
In Proceedings of the IEEEInternational Conference on Semantic Computing(ICSC), Irvine, CA.Marta Recasens.
2008.
Discourse deixis and coref-erence: Evidence from AnCora.
In Proceedings ofthe SecondWorkshop on Anaphora Resolution (WARII), pages 73?82.Zeno Vendler, 1967.
Linguistics in Philosophy, chapterVerbs and Time, pages 97?121.
Cornell UniversityPress, Ithaca.Bonnie L. Webber.
1988.
Discourse deixis: Referenceto discourse segments.
In Proceedings of the ACL-88 conference, pages 113?122.Bonnie L. Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostention inthe interpretation of discourse deixis.
Language andCognitive Processes, 6:107?135.169
