Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 210?221,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsReliable Discourse Markers for Contrast RelationsJennifer Spenader and Anna LobanovaDepartment of Artificial IntelligenceUniversity of Groningen{j.spenader|a.lobanova}@ai.rug.nlAbstractUsing the RST annotated corpus [Carlson et al, 2003], we use sim-ple statistics on the distribution of discourse markers or cue phrasesas evidence of the three-way distinction of Contrast relations, Con-trast, Antithesis and Concession, recognized in standard Rhetor-ical Structure Theory (RST, Mann and Thompson 1987).
We alsoshow that however, an intuitive marker of Contrast, is not actuallyused statistically significantly more often in Contrast relations than inCause-Effect relations.
These results highlight the need for empiricallybased discourse marker identification rather than the intuitive methodthat is the current norm.1 IntroductionContrast is a central rhetorical relation.
It is one of the most frequent, asshown by discourse annotation projects.
It seems to have a clear, intuitivesemantic meaning, and has been argued to interact with other linguisticstructures like VP-ellipsis (see e.g.
Kehler 2000).
Finally, it is instinctivelyassociated with several very clear discourse markers, such as e.g.
however,although and but.However, there is a lack of consensus about whether or not there are qual-itatively different Contrast relations: RST (Rhetorical Structure Theory)recognizes three different types: Contrast proper, Antithesis and Con-cession, Wolf and Gibson [2005] recognize two, denial of expectation andcontrast, and Segmented Discourse Representation Theory (SDRT, Asherand Lascarides 2003) recognizes one: Contrast.In this paper we use the annotated RST corpus [Carlson et al, 2003]and simple lexical cooccurrance statistics to determine if intuitive discoursemarkers of contrast reliably identify Contrast from Cause-Effect relations210and if the markers also distinguish between the three-way distinction madein RST.
The distribution of markers shows that intuition can be surpris-ingly wrong, e.g.
however was not a reliable marker of Contrast.
We alsofound that the different RST Contrast relations can be distinguished by theirmarkers.
These results illustrate the need for empirically testing intuitivelyidentified rhetorical relation markers, and argue against collapsing the Con-trast distinctions, as has been done in many discourse annotation schemes.2 Contrast as a rhetorical relationTheoretically, RST leaves the number of relations recognized up to the an-notator [Mann and Thompson, 1987], but in the manually annotated RSTcorpus [Carlson et al, 2003] 78 relations are stipulated, including three Con-trast relations: Contrast, Antithesis and Concession.
As mentionedabove, Wolf and Gibson [2005] recognize two Contrast relations among the11 relations they distinguish between, `violated expectation' and `contrast', adistinction which seems to have been inherited from Hobbs [1985], who mayhave in turn taken it from Lakoff [1971].
In the manual Reese et al [2007]for the annotation of texts according to SDRT, there is only one contrastrelation among the 14 relations recognized.
Thus RST recognizes the great-est number of contrast types, but there is no empirical evidence supportingthese or any other distinctions.The distinctions between different types of Contrast found in currentdiscourse annotation schemes seem to have been adapted from theoreticallinguistic work on contrast that sought to characterize the way in which theconjunction but differs from and.
Lakoff [1971] made a distinction betweenwhat she called denial of expectation contrast and semantic opposition usesof but, e.g.
(1) It's raining but I'm taking an umbrella.
(2) John is tall but Bill is short.
(Lakoff 1971: 133)Denial of expectation has semantically been interpreted as a case wherethe first conjunct implicates a proposition that the second conjunct denies,e.g.
in (1) It's raining implicates the speaker will get wet, while having anumbrella negates this implication.
Semantic opposition contrast on the otherhand is characterized by the fact that the conjuncts have parallel elementscontrasted along one dimension, e.g.
in (2), John and Bill are humanscontrasted according to their height.211The three RST relations seem to preserve the same the distinction.
An-tithesis and Contrast are described as having contrast happen in onlyone or few respects, while everything else can remain the same in other re-spects. (Annotation manual, [Carlson and Marcu, 2001] same wording inboth definitions.
), clearly echoing the definition of semantic opposition: An-tithesis and Contrast only differ in terms of symmetry, realized in termsof nuclearity in RST.
In multinuclear Contrast neither of the conjunctsshould be more prominent or more connected with the rest of the discoursethan the other, but in a mononuclear Antithesis relation the nucleus willbe more prominent.ANTITHESIS 1 [Although Exxon spent heavily during the latest quarter toclean up the Alaskan shoreline blackened by its huge oil spill,]1A[those ex-penses as well as the cost of a continuing spill-related program are coveredby $880 million in charges taken during the first half.
]1B(wsj1311)ANTITHESIS 2 [A hearing is set for Nov. 15,]2A[but participants don't expecta resolution until July 1990.
]2B(wsj1145)CONTRAST 3 [Import values are calculated on a cost, insurance and freight(c.i.f.)
basis,]3A[while exports are accounted for on a free-on-board (f.o.b.)basis.
]3B(wsj0615)CONTRAST 4 [The clash of ideologies survives this treatment,]4A[but thenuance and richness of Gorky's individual characters have vanished in thescue.]4B(wsj0615)For a Concession relation the contrast is argued to be the result ofan unexpected situation, and the definition even says it involves a denial ofexpectation.The situation indicated in the nucleus is contrary to expecta-tion in the light of the information presented in the satellite.
Inother words, a Concession relation is always characterized by aviolated expectation.
(Compare to Antithesis.)
In some cases,which text span is the satellite and which is the nucleus do notdepend on the semantics of the spans, but rather on the intentionof the writer. (Annotation manual, Carlson and Marcu [2001])Examining two examples from the corpus below what we can see is thatwe should not have the kind of parallel elements typical of Contrast andAntithesis.212CONCESSION 5 [Its 1,400-member brokerage operation reported an estimated$5 million loss last year,]5A[although Kidder expects it to turn a profitthis year.
]5B(wsj0604)CONCESSION 6 [While there have been no reports of similar sudden unex-plained deaths among diabetics in the U.S.,]6A[Dr. Sobel said the FDAplans to examine Dr. Toseland's evidence and is considering its own studyhere.
]6B(wsj0690)However, these two categories are hard to apply straightforwardly tomany examples.
Further, numerous linguistic papers (e.g.
Foolen 1991,Winter and Rimon 1994 and Spenader and Stulp 2007)have argued that thedistinction between denial of expectation and semantic opposition is artificial,and that to correctly interpret a sentence such as (2) in a discourse it isnecessary to have a context such as e.g.
All Dutch people aren't giants,the interpretation becomes the same as for a denial of expectation.Just how easy is it to distinguish an Antithesis relation from Con-trast orConcession?
Carlson et al [2003] present kappa scores for subsetsof the corpus ranging from 0.6 to 0.79 for the set of 78 relations, and scoresup to 0.82 for a simpler annotation scheme where the 78 categories were col-lapsed into 16 supersets, including one Contrast set.
But they don't reportscores for the entire corpus or for sets of particular relations in isolation, soall we can do is evaluate individual examples.
Contrast 3 and Contrast4 do seem to display parallel elements but what about Antithesis 2.
Whyisn't the fact that it will take so long to reach a verdict considered a kindof denial of expectation?
Are the dates the parallel elements in Antithesis2?
The annotation doesn't require explicitly identifying these structures butthe definitions imply they should be present.
In many ways, Antithesis 2seems to share more with Concession 6.
For Concession 5 we could alsoeasily argue that the brokerage operation and Kidder are parallel elementswhile profits or losses is the measure of comparison.In the end, the corpus has a similar problem to all materials with anno-tations where there is no clear, objective method of categorization.
We haveto simply accept the annotation as reliable and see if the results we obtainwith it makes sense.3 Previous research analyzing cue wordsTaboada [2006] used the RST corpus and a corpus of task oriented dialoguesthat she annotated with RST relations to identify the most frequently used213discourse markers for a number of RST relations.
Most relevant for the cur-rent work are her results for unembedded Concession relations.
In the RSTcorpus she found that 90.35% of the relations were marked with some recog-nisable discourse marker, with the words but and although contributing to50% of the marked relations.
Other markers she identified were though, de-spite, while, even though, however, still, even if, even when, even yet, whetherand whereas.
Another relevant result concerns the distribution of discoursemarkers across nuclei and satellites.
She found that for Concession, themarkers were equally likely to occur in the nucleus or satellite.The main problem with this study is that it relies on intuition for theinitial identification of the Concession markers, and then the frequencywith which they intuitively seem to be signaling contrast is used as evidenceof the correctness of the initial intuition.
But this means that relevant mark-ers might be missed.
An even greater problem is that the method does notinsure that identified markers are actually characteristic of the relation; theymight very well occur just as frequently in other relations.
The frequencywith which but and although occur in the Concession relations and intu-ition makes a strong case for considering these markers of Concession, butmarkers like e.g.
while, might be just as likely to occur with a Result or aCause relation.Marcu and Echihabi [2002] used machine learning to develop an auto-matic classifier for a number of super categories of discourse relations, in-cluding Contrast, Cause-Explanation-Evidence, Condition and Elaboration.First, they made a set of patterns based on intuitively identified discoursemarkers for each discourse relation.
They then used these markers to auto-matically extracted large numbers of examples from two corpora totally morethan 42 million English sentences.
For example, sentences with a sentence-initial but were considered Contrast examples, and sentences with becauseas Cause-Explanation-Evidence.
For training, all discourse markers were re-moved and the stripped sentences were used to train a family of Na?ve Bayesclassifiers.
One reported results was that the classifier that distinguished be-tween Cause-Explanation-Evidence and Contrast had an accuracyof 87.1%.
The level of accuracy is impressive, and surely supports the au-thors' claim that automatical extraction is a reliable method for finding largenumber of examples of certain coherence relations.
On the other hand, it isnot clear what could be achieved, and making more fine-grained distinctionsmight require less noisy data.
For such investigations, intuitively identifieddiscourse markers might not be reliable enough.Sporleder and Lascarides [2008] compared the performance of rhetoricalrelation classifiers trained on data with marked and unmarked discourse re-214lations.
They chose a subset of five discourse relations including Contrast,Result, Summary, Explanation and Continuation and a total of 55discourse markers that according to them unambiguously indicated each ofthe relations.
For example, but, although, however, whereas and yet were con-sidered to be unambiguous markers of Contrast because following SDRTdefinition Sporleder and Lascarides [2008] assumed that there is only onetype of Contrast.
The choice of discourse markers was based on Oates [2000]and authors' introspection of randomly extracted examples.
What is relevantto our research is that both studies (Marcu and Echihabi 2002 and Sporlederand Lascarides 2008) extracted explicitly marked rhetorical relations usinga set of discourse markers selected by intuition, without any empirical evi-dence that the markers are reliable.
In addition, no fine-grained distinctionsbetween types of relations (e.g.
Concession vs Antithesis) were made.One way to determine if discourse markers are reliable indicators of therelations we assume they mark is to see if the qualitative difference postu-lated between the Contrast relations seems to manifest in a distributionaldifference in the discourse markers used in Contrast relations.
An immediatepotential objection to this methods is the fact that the RST corpus anno-tation manual lists a number of intuitively identified discourse markers aspotential indicators for many of the relations, including the Contrast rela-tions.
For example, it says that the discourse markers although and despiteare discourse markers for Concession and Antithesis, while however is adiscourse marker for Antithesis and Contrast.Indeed, if we only find evidence that these markers pattern with thementioned relations, then we cannot determine if this is because the rela-tions themselves are best marked with these markers, or if the annotatorswere simply influenced by the manual.
If, however, we do find some otherconsistent pattern of discourse markers correlating with each of the Contrastrelations, then this would be evidence that these qualitative distinctions arereal, rather than merely stipulated by the coding scheme.A final note, RST allows relations to be embedded in other relations, afeature that seems to be unique to RST, and the RST corpus among otherdiscourse annotated corpora.
We think it is important to look both at simplerelations and at embedded relations, but in this we depart from much of theearlier work done on studying discourse markers.
This has a disadvantage inthat it can inflate the counts, because a discourse marker inside a Contrastrelation that is in turn embedded inside another Contrast relation will becounted twice as marking Contrast relations.
On the other hand, there is noother way to count discourse markers and still take embedded contexts intoaccount.215Contrast Cause-set Effect(%) set (%)p though 0.11 0.05even 0.18 0.11despite 0.06 0.02p although 0.10 0.02p but 0.85 0.44however 0.09 0.06p still 0.14 0.05p while 0.15 0.09only 0.15 0.17too 0.08 0.04Table 1: Set of three Contrast relations compared with three Cause-Effect relations.Words in bold occur significantly more often in one relation than the other to the degreeof p ?
0.05.
When a `p' precedes the word p ?
0.009.
The relation in which the wordoccurred significantly more frequently in has the percent marked in bold.
Thus thoughoccurred 84 times in the three Contrast relations.
The three relations had 75,552 words,so though occurred with a frequency of 0.0011, or made up 0.11% of the total words.
Alltables present the data according to this pattern.4 ExperimentsWe used the annotated RST corpus as data [Carlson et al, 2003].
This cor-pus has approximately 176,000 words composed of 385 articles from the WallStreet Journal portion of the Penn Treebank.
We extracted all Contrast,Antithesis, Concession, Evidence, Cause and Result relations,1in-cluding relations that contained embedded relations.
We then use ?2teststo check for statistically significant correlations between lexical items andthe different coherence relations.
We only report results for a small set ofclosed class words that are particularly likely to be discourse markers.First, from the results in Table 1 we can see that many terms consideredto be typical markers of Contrast do in fact distinguish Contrast relationsfrom Cause-Effect relations.
A somewhat surprising result is that however,stereotypically considered a marker of contrast, is not used significantly moreoften in Contrast than in Cause-Effect relations.
Also, a number of lexicalitems that are not generally recognized as discourse markers but which dotend to contribute to Contrast are in fact significant.
These include even,still and the parallel marker too.1Concession was the smallest relation, with 15,346 words.
Contrast was the largestwith 35,859.
Antithesis relations contained 24,347 words.216Antithesis+ ContrastConcesssion(%) (%)p though 0.16 0.05p even 0.22 0.13p despite 0.08 0.03p although 0.15 0.04but 0.85 0.44however 0.09 0.06still 0.17 0.11while 0.18 0.12only 0.17 0.13too 0.09 0.04Table 2: Nuclearity compared: Mononu-clear Antithesis and Concession com-pared with multinuclear Contrast.Antithesis+ ConcessionContrast(%) (%)p though 0.07 0.27p even 0.14 0.33p despite 0.04 0.13p although 0.08 0.17but 0.89 0.44however 0.09 0.08still 0.13 0.18while 0.16 0.14only 0.14 0.22too 0.08 0.06Table 3: Contrast types compared: An-tithesis and Contrast versus Conces-sion.Next, we examined different groupings of the contrast relations to see ifthere is evidence that the three categories of contrast distinguished by RSTactually show a different distribution of discourse markers.The three Contrast relations can be further grouped along two features,their nuclearity and the way in which they create the contrastive meaning.Antithesis and Concession are both mononuclear relations while Con-trast is multinuclear.
Are either of these features reflected in the type ofdiscourse markers the relations cooccur with?
It is highly possible that nu-clearity would limit which discourse markers cooccur with which relationsgiven that nuclearity to a certain degree correlates with the coordinating andsubordinating conjunction distinction.
To test this question we comparedAntithesis and Concession to Contrast.
The results are in Table 2.The first thing to notice is that but and too are no longer significant:they mark Antithesis and Concession equally as well as they mark Con-trast.
We also see that a number of markers that were useful for distin-guishing Contrast from Cause-Effect relations are also useful for distinguish-ing Antithesis and Concession from Contrast, occurring significantlymore often in Antithesis and Concession, i.e.
though, although, despite,even, still and while.What if we instead group the three relations by the way in which theyseem to establish contrast?
Remember, from the definitions Concessionhas to do with a violated expectation between the two discourse units,whereas both Contrast and Antithesis should be characterized by acomparison along `one or more respects'.217Antithesis Concession(%) (%)p though 0.10 0.27p even 0.15 0.33p despite 0.05 0.13although 0.14 0.17but 0.93 0.72however 0.12 0.08still 0.16 0.18while 0.20 0.15only 0.14 0.22too 0.10 0.06Table 4: Antithesis compared with Con-cessionContrast Concession(%) (%)p though 0.05 0.27p even 0.13 0.33p despite 0.03 0.13p although 0.04 0.17but 0.86 0.72however 0.08 0.08still 0.11 0.18while 0.12 0.15only 0.13 0.22too 0.07 0.06Table 5: Contrast compared with Con-cessionThe results in Table 3 show that Concession can be distinguished fromAntithesis and Contrast by the typical markers though, although, evenand despite, as well as only.
The markers while and still are no longer signif-icant.
These results, combined with the results above seem to suggest thatConcession is quite different from Antithesis and Contrast.
Probablythese markers are actually just markers of Concession.
We can check thisby comparing Concession with Antithesis (Table 4) and Concessionwith Contrast (Table 5).
What we then see is that though, even anddespite distinguish Concession from Antithesis and Concession fromContrast.
Table 5 shows that although also distinguishes Concessionfrom Contrast but because this cue does not distinguish Antithesis fromConcession we can guess that it is equally as characteristic of Antithesisas it is of Concession.
This also explains why it was significantly differentfrom Contrast when we collapsed Antithesis with Concession.
Thesame holds for still.5 Discussion and ConclusionsOur first conclusion is that we seem to have found that each relation has adistinctive discourse marker profile and that these results support the three-way distinction, that otherwise seems to be stipulated.
Further, in termsof the discourse markers that distinguish them it seems that Concessionis much more different from Antithesis and Contrast, suggesting thatthe way in which the contrast relation is established is more relevant to218Antithesis Contrast(%) (%)though 0.10 0.05even 0.15 0.13despite 0.05 0.03p although 0.14 0.04but 0.93 0.86however 0.12 0.08still 0.16 0.11while 0.20 0.12only 0.14 0.13too 0.10 0.07Table 6: Antithesis compared with Contrastlexical marking choices than nuclearity and/or symmetry.
This is also in linewith the two way distinction in the theoretical linguistics.
Note also thatthe reliable discourse markers differ from those suggested in the annotationmanual: although and despite are only reliable markers of Concession, notAntithesis, and however doesn't characterize Contrast relations at all.A second result is that by using ?2statistics to identify discourse markerswe have a reliable and fairly automatic alternative method to the intuitiveidentification of markers made by much of the existing research.
This methodcan be applied to other discourse relations and may find some surprisingresults, such as e.g.
our finding that however is not a reliable unambiguousmarker of Contrast when compared with Cause-Effect relations.
Of course,it is entirely possible that however is a good indicator of Contrast whendistinguishing Contrast from e.g.
Narration.
Ideally, we should compareall combinations to derive an exhaustive and data derived list of reliablediscourse markers for all relations, but we limit our discussion to a smallset of lexical items and only compare Contrast with Cause-Effect relationsbecause of time and space constraints, but this is an obvious next step inour inquiry.Our results have implications for data oriented approaches using intuitionto identify markers to extract examples of coherence relations.
Marcu andEchihabi [2002] for example relied solely on discourse markers to extracttraining data, necessarily so because the method they used requires moredata than could feasibly be manually annotated.
But our results show thatcareful testing of the reliability of the discourse markers could improve thequality of the extracted relations.
Further, the number of Contrast relations219recognized has to be carefully considered.
Treating all Contrast relations asone supercategory, collapsing the RST distinctions as Marcu and Echihabi[2002] and many others have done, may lead to worse results than retainingthe distinctions; we know from part of speech tagging for example, that whiletoo many distinctions may make tagging harder, too few can do the same.The results also show that even a modest amount of annotated data can beuseful for improving extracted data.Finally, one of the most obvious problems with all the studies (includingthis one) on automatically identifying discourse relations is that they onlywork with marked discourse relations.
Our results won't help much in iden-tifying unmarked Contrast relations, yet these relations are very frequent.Carlson et al [2003] have shown that in the corpus of Rhetorical Struc-ture trees only 61 out of 238 contrast relations were marked by a discoursemarker.
This means that contrastive markers would help to identify only25% of contrast relations in that corpus.
Similarly, Taboada [2006] lookedat the RST corpus and a task-oriented dialogue corpus and concluded thatmost of the relations (between 60-70%) were not signaled by any discoursemarkers.
Finding a solution to these problems will be a challenge for futurework.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Axel Brink for help with data extraction, and theanonymous reviewers for useful comments.
Jennifer Spenader's work wassupported by grant 016.064.062 from the Netherlands Organisation for Sci-entific Research (NWO).ReferencesNicholas Asher and Alex Lascarides.
Logics of Conversation.
CambridgeUniversity Press, 2003.Lynn Carlson and Daniel Marcu.
Discourse tagging manual.
Technical re-port, ISI Tech Report ISI-TR-545, July 2001.L.
Carlson, Daniel Marcu, and M.E Okurowski.
Building a Discourse-TaggedCorpus in the Framework of Rhetorical Structure Theory.
2003.Ad Foolen.
Polyfunctionality and the semantics of adversative conjunctions.Multilingual, 10(1/2):7092, 1991.220Jerry Hobbs.
On the coherence and structure of discourse.
Technical report,Report No.
CSLI-85-37, Center for the Study of Language and Informa-tion, 1985.Andrew Kehler.
Coherence and the resolution of ellipsis.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 23(6):533575, 2000.Robyn Lakoff.
If, ands and buts about conjunction, chapter Studies in Lin-guistic Semantics.
Holt, Reinhart and Winston, 1971.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
Rhetorical Structure Theory:A theory of text organization.
Information Sciences Institute, Marina delRey, CA, 1987.Daniel Marcu and A Echihabi.
An unsupervised approach to recognizingdiscourse relations.
Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL-).
Philadelphia, PA, July7-12, 2002.Sarah Louise Oates.
Multiple discourse marker occurrence: Creating hi-erarchies for natural language generation.
In Proceedings of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages4145, 2000.Brian Reese, Julia Hunter, Nicholas Asher, Pascal Deni, and JasonBaldridge.
Reference manual for the analysis and annotation of rhetoricalstructure (version 1.0), 2007.Jennifer Spenader and Gert Stulp.
Antonymy and contrast relations.
InSeventh International Workshop on Computational Semantics, Tilburg,10-11 January 2007.Caroline Sporleder and Alex Lascarides.
Using automatically labelled ex-amples to classify rhetorical relations: An assessment.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 14(3):369416, 2008.Maite Taboada.
Discourse markers as signals (or not) of rhetorical relations.Journal of Pragmatics, 38(4):567592, 2006.Y.
Winter and M. Rimon.
Contrast and implication in natural language.Journal of Semantics, 1994.Florian Wolf and Edward Gibson.
Representing discourse coherence: Acorpus-based study.
Computational Linguistics, 31(2):249288, 2005.221
