Proceedings of the NAACL HLT Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 32?39,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsGaiku : Generating Haiku with Word Associations NormsYael Netzer?
and David Gabay and Yoav Goldberg?
and Michael ElhadadBen Gurion University of the NegevDepartment of Computer SciencePOB 653 Be?er Sheva, 84105, Israel{yaeln,gabayd,yoavg,elhadad}@cs.bgu.ac.ilAbstractcreativeness / a pleasing field / of bloomWord associations are an important elementof linguistic creativity.
Traditional lexicalknowledge bases such as WordNet formalizea limited set of systematic relations amongwords, such as synonymy, polysemy and hy-pernymy.
Such relations maintain their sys-tematicity when composed into lexical chains.We claim that such relations cannot explainthe type of lexical associations common inpoetic text.
We explore in this paper theusage of Word Association Norms (WANs)as an alternative lexical knowledge sourceto analyze linguistic computational creativity.We specifically investigate the Haiku poeticgenre, which is characterized by heavy re-liance on lexical associations.
We first com-pare the density of WAN-based word asso-ciations in a corpus of English Haiku po-ems to that of WordNet-based associations aswell as in other non-poetic genres.
Theseexperiments confirm our hypothesis that thenon-systematic lexical associations capturedin WANs play an important role in poetic text.We then present Gaiku, a system to automat-ically generate Haikus from a seed word andusing WAN-associations.
Human evaluationindicate that generated Haikus are of lesserquality than human Haikus, but a high propor-tion of generated Haikus can confuse humanreaders, and a few of them trigger intriguingreactions.?
Supported by Deutsche Telekom Laboratories at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev.?
Supported by the Lynn and William Frankel Center forComputer Sciences.1 IntroductionTraditional lexical knowledge bases such as Word-Net formalize a limited set of systematic relationsthat exist between words, such as synonymy, pol-ysemy, hypernymy.
When such relations are com-posed, they maintain their systematicity, and do notcreate surprising, unexpected word associations.The human mind is not limited to such system-atic relations, and people tend to associate words toeach other with a rich set of relations, such as nonsystematic paradigmatic (doctor-nurse) and syntag-matic relations (mash-potato) as identified by Saus-sure (1949).
Such associations rely on cultural(mash-television), emotional (math - yuck) and per-sonal experience (autumn - Canada).In linguistic creativity, such as prose or poetrywriting, word associations play an important roleand the ability to connect words into new, unex-pected relations is one of the key mechanisms thattriggers the reader involvement.We explore in this paper the usage of Word As-sociation Norms (WANs) as an alternative lexicalknowledge source to analyze linguistic computa-tional creativity.
WANs have been developed in psy-chological research in the past 40 years.
They recordtypical word associations evoked by people whenthey are submitted a trigger word.
Such associations(e.g., table to chair or cloth) are non-systematic, yethighly stable across people, time (over a period of 30years) and languages.
WANs have been compiled invarious languages, and provide an interesting sourceto analyze word associations in creative writing.We specifically investigate the Haiku poetic32genre, which is characterized by heavy reliance onlexical associations.
The hypothesis we investigateis that WANs play a role in computational creativ-ity, and better explain the type of word associationsobserved in creative writing than the systematic re-lations found in thesauri such as WordNet.In the rest of the paper, we refine our hypothe-sis and present observations on a dataset of EnglishHaikus we collected.
We find that the density ofWAN-based word associations in Haikus is muchhigher than in other genres, and also much higherthan the density of WordNet-based associations.
Wethen present Gaiku, a system we developed to auto-matically generate Haikus from a seed word usingword association norms.
Evaluation we performedwith a group of 60 human readers indicates that thegenerated Haikus exhibit interesting creative charac-teristics and sometimes receive intriguing acclaim.2 Background and Previous Work2.1 Computational CreativityComputational creativity in general and linguistic inparticular, is a fascinating task.
On the one hand, lin-guistic creativity goes beyond the general NLP tasksand requires understanding and modelling knowl-edge which, almost by definition, cannot be formal-ized (i.e., terms like beautiful, touching, funny or in-triguing).
On the other hand, this vagueness itselfmay enable a less restrictive formalization and allowa variety of quality judgments.
Such vague formal-izations are naturally more useful when a computa-tional creativity system does not attempt to modelthe creativity process itself, but instead focuses on?creative products?
such as poetry (see Section 2.3),prose and narrative (Montfort, 2006), cryptic cross-word clues (Hardcastle, 2007) and many others.Some research focus on the creative process itself(see (Ritchie, 2006) for a comprehensive review ofthe field).
We discuss in this paper what Boden(1998) calls P-Creativity (Psychological Creativity)which is defined relative to the initial state of knowl-edge, and H-Creativity (Historical Creativity) whichis relative to a specific reference culture.
Bodenclaims that, while hard to reproduce, exploratorycreativity is most successful in computer models ofcreativity.
This is because the other kinds of creativ-ity are even more elusive due to the difficulty of ap-proaching the richness of human associative mem-ory, and the difficulty of identifying our values andof expressing them in computational form.We investigate in our work one way of addressingthis difficulty: we propose to use associative data asa knowledge source as a first approximation of hu-man associative capabilities.
While we do not ex-plain such associations, we attempt to use them ina constructive manner as part of a simple combina-tional model of creativity in poetry.2.2 Word Associations and CreativityAssociations and creativity are long known to bestrongly connected.
Mendick (Mendick, 1969) de-fines creative thinking as ?the forming of associativeelements into new combinations which either meetspecified requirements or are in some way useful.
?The usefulness criterion distinguishes original think-ing from creative thinking.
A creative solution isreached through three main paths: serendipity (ran-dom stimuli evoke associative elements), similar-ity (stimuli and solution are found similar throughan association) and mediation (both ?problem?
and?solution?
can be associated to similar elements).In our work, we hypothesize that interesting Haikupoems exhibit creative word associations.
We relyon this hypothesis to first generate candidate wordassociations starting from a seed word and follow-ing random walks through WANs, but also to rankcandidate Haiku poems by measuring the density ofWAN-based associations they exhibit.2.3 Poetry GenerationAlthough several automatic and semi-automatic po-etry generation systems were developed over theyears, most of them did not rise above the level of?party tricks?
(Manurung et al, 2000).
In his the-sis, (Manurung, 2003), defined a poem to be a textthat meets three properties: meaningfulness, gram-maticality and poeticness.
Two of the few systemsthat attempt to explicitly represent all three prop-erties are reported in (Gervas, 2001) and (D?
?az-Agudo et al, 2002).
Both systems take as input aprose message provided by the user, and translate itinto formal Spanish poetry.
The system proposedin (Manurung et al, 2000) is similar in that it fo-cuses on the syntactic and phonetic patterns of thepoem, putting less stress on the semantics.
The sys-33tem starts with a simple seed and gradually devel-ops a poem, by making small syntactic and semanticchanges at every step.Specifically in the subfield of Haiku generation,the Haiku generator presented in (Wong and Chun,2008) produces candidate poems by combining linestaken from blogs.
The system then ranks the can-didates according to semantic similarity, which iscomputed using the results returned by a search en-gine when querying for words in each line.
Hitch-Haiku (Tosa et al, 2008), another Haiku generationsystem, starts from two seed words given by the user.It retrieves two phrases containing these words froma corpus, and then adds a third phrase that connectsboth input words, using lexical resources.In our work, we induce a statistical languagemodel of the structure of Haikus from an analysisof a corpus of English Haikus, and explore ways tocombine chains of lexical associations into the ex-pected Haiku syntactic structure.
The key issues weinvestigate are the importance of WAN-based asso-ciations in the Haiku generation process, and how achain of words, linked through WAN-based associa-tions, can be composed into a Haiku-like structure.2.4 HaikuHaiku is a form of poetry originated in Japan inthe sixteenth century.
The genre was adopted inWestern languages in the 20th Century.
The origi-nal form of a poem is of three lines of five, sevenand five syllables (although this constraint is loos-ened in non-Japanese versions of Haiku (Gilbert andYoneoka, 2000)).
Haiku, by its nature, aims to re-flect or evoke emotion using an extremely economi-cal linguistic form; most Haiku use present tense anduse no judgmental words; in addition, functional orsyntactic words may be dropped.
Traditional Haikuinvolve reference to nature and seasons, but modernand western Haiku are not restricted to this theme1.We adopt the less ?constraining?
definition of theauthor Jack Kerouac (2004) for a Haiku ?I proposethat the ?Western Haiku?
simply say a lot in threeshort lines in any Western language.
Above all, aHaiku must be very simple and free of all poetic1Senryu poetry, similar in form to Haiku, is the Japanesegenre of poems that relate to human and relationships, and maybe humorous.
Hereafter, we use Haiku for both the originaldefinition and the Senryu as well.trickery and make a little picture and yet be as airyand graceful as a Vivaldi Pastorella.?
(pp.
x-xi).
Inaddition, we are guided by the saying ?
The besthaiku should leave the reader wondering ?
(Quotedin (Blasko and Merski, 1998))2.5 Word Association NormsThe interest in word associations is common tomany fields.
Idiosyncrasy of associations was usedas a diagnostic tool at the beginning of the 20th cen-tury, but nowadays the majority of approaches dealless with particular associations and more with gen-eral patterns in order to study the structure of themental lexicon and of semantic memory (Rubinstenet al, 2005).Word Association Norms (WAN) are a collectionof cue words and the set of free associations thatwere given as responses to the cue, accompaniedwith quantitative and statistical measures.
Subjectsare given a word and asked to respond immediatelywith the first word that comes to their mind.
Thelargest WAN we know for English is the Universityof South Florida Free Association Norms (Nelson etal., 1998).Word Association Norms and Thesauri in NLPSinopalnikova and Smrz (2004) have shown thatwhen building and extending semantic networks,WANs have advantages over corpus-based meth-ods.
They found that WANs cover semantic rela-tions that are difficult to acquire from a corpus: 42%of the non-idiosyncratic cue-target pairs in an En-glish WAN never co-appeared in a 10 words win-dow in a large balanced text corpus.
From the pointof view of computational creativity, this is encourag-ing, since it suggests that association-based contentgeneration can lead to texts that are both sensibleand novel.
(Duch and Pilichowski, 2007)?s work,from a neuro-cognitive perspective, generates neol-ogisms based, among other data, on word associa-tion.
(Duch and Pilichowski, 2007) sums ?creativityrequires prior knowledge, imagination and filteringof the results.
?3 WordNet vs. AssociationsWord association norms add an insight on languagethat is not found in WordNet or are hard to acquirefrom corpora, and therefore can be used as an ad-ditional tool in NLP applications and computational34creativity.We choose the Haiku generation task using wordassociations, since this genre of poetry encapsulatesmeaning in a special way.
Haiku tend to use wordswhich are connected through associative or phono-logical connections (very often ambiguous).We hypothesize that word-associations are goodcatalyzers for creativity, and use them as a buildingblock in the creative process of Haiku generation.We first test this hypothesis by analyzing a corpus ofexisting Haiku poems.3.1 Analyzing existing textCan the creativity of text as reflected in word as-sociations be quantified?
Are Haiku poems indeedmore associative than newswire text or prose?
Ifthis is the case, we expect Haiku to have more asso-ciative relations, which cannot be easily recoveredby WordNet than other type of text.
We view theWAN as an undirected graph in which the nodesare stemmed words, and two nodes are connectediff one of them is a cue for the other.
We take theassociative distance between two words to be thenumber of edges in the shortest path between thewords in the associations-graph.
Interestingly, al-most any word pair in the association graph is con-nected with a path of at most 3 edges.
Thus, wetake two words to be associatively related if theirassociative distance is 1 or 2.
Similarly, we definethe WordNet distance between two stemmed wordsto be the number of edges in the shortest path be-tween any synset of one word to any synset of theother word2.
Two words are WordNet-related if theirWordNet distance is less than 4 (this is consistentwith works on lexical-cohesion, (Morris and Hirst,1991)).We take the associativity of a piece of text to bethe number of associated word pairs in the text, nor-malized by the number of word pairs in the text ofwhich both words are in the WAN.3 We take theWordNet-relations level of a piece of text to be thenumber of WordNet-related word pairs in the text.2This is the inverse of the path-similarity measure of (Ped-ersen et al, 2004).3This normalization is performed to account for the limitedlexical coverage of the WAN.
We don?t want words that appearin a text, but are not covered by the WAN, to affect the associa-tivity level of the text.SOURCE AVG.
ASSOC AVG.
WORDNETRELATIONS (<3) RELATIONS (<4)News 0.26 2.02Prose 0.22 1.4Haiku 0.32 1.38Table 1: Associative and WordNet relations in varioustext genresWe measure the average associativity and Word-Net levels of 200 of the Haiku in our Haiku Cor-pus (Section 4.1), as well as of random 12-wordsequences from Project Gutenberg and from theNANC newswire corpus.The results are presented in Table 1.Perhaps surprisingly, the numbers for the Guten-berg texts are lower on all measures.
This is at-tributed to the fact that Gutenberg texts have manymore pronouns and non-content words than theHaiku and newswire text.
Haiku text appears tobe more associative than newswire text.
Moreover,newswire documents have many more WordNet-relations than the Haiku poems ?
whenever wordsare related in Haiku, this relatedness tends to be cap-tured via the association network rather than via theWordNet relations.
The same trend is apparent alsowhen considering the Gutenberg numbers: they haveabout 15% less associations than newswire text, butabout 30% less WordNet-relations.
This supportsthe claim that associative information which is notreadily available in WordNet is a good indicator ofcreative content.3.2 Generating creative contentWe now investigate how word-associations can helpin the process of generating Haikus.
We definea 5 stage generative process: theme selection inwhich the general theme of the Haiku is decided,syntactic planning, which sets the Haiku form andsyntactic constraints, content selection / semanticplanning which combines syntactic and aestheticconstraints with the theme selected in the previousstages to form good building blocks, filtered over-generation of many Haiku based on these selectedbuilding blocks, and finally re-ranking of the gen-erated Haiku based on external criteria.The details of the generation algorithm are pre-sented in Section 4.2.
Here we focus on the creativeaspect of this process ?
theme selection.
Our mainclaim is that WANs are a good source for interest-35ing themes.
Specifically, interesting themes can beobtained by performing a short random walk on theassociation graph induced by the WAN network.Table 2 presents the results of several randomwalks of 3 steps starting from the seed words ?Dog?,?Winter?, ?Nature?
and ?Obsession?.
For compar-ison, we also present the results of random walksover WordNet glosses for the same seeds.We observe that the association network is bet-ter for our needs than WordNet.
Random walks inWordNet are more likely to stay too close to the seedword, limiting the poetic options, or to get too farand produce almost random connections.4 Algorithm for generating Haiku4.1 DatasetWe used the Word Association Norms (WAN) of theUniversity of South Florida 4 (Nelson et al, 1998)for discovering associations of words.
The dataset(Appendix A, there) includes 5,019 cue words and10,469 additional target that were collected withmore than 6,000 participants since 1973.We have compiled a Haiku Corpus, which in-cludes approximately 3,577 Haiku in English of var-ious sources (amateurish sites, children?s writings,translations of classic Japanese Haiku of Bashu andothers, and ?official?
sites of Haiku Associations(e.g., Haiku Path - Haiku Society of America).For the content selection part of the algorithms,we experimented with two data sources: a corpus of1TB web-based N-grams supplied by Google, andthe complete text of Project Gutenberg.
The Guten-berg data has the advantage of being easier to POS-tag and contains less restricted-content, while theGoogle Web data is somewhat more diverse.4.2 Algorithm DetailsOur Haiku generation algorithm includes 5 stages:theme selection, syntactic planning, content selec-tion, filtered over generation, and ranking.The Theme Selection stage is in charge of dictat-ing the overall theme of our Haiku.
We start witha user-supplied seed word (e.g.
WINTER).
We thenconsult the Association database in order to enrichthe seed word with various associations.
Ideally, wewould like these associations to be close enough to4http://w3.usf.edu/FreeAssociation/the seed word to be understandable, yet far enoughaway from it as to be interesting.
After some ex-perimenting, we came up with the following heuris-tic, which we found to provide adequate results.
Westart with the seed word, and conduct a short randomwalk on the associations graph.
Each random stepis comprised of choosing a random direction (either?Cue?
or ?Target?)
using a uniform distribution, andthen a random neighbor according to its relative fre-quency.
We conduct several (8) such walks, eachwith 3 steps, and keep all the resulting words.
Thisgives us mostly close, probable associations, as wellas some less probable, further away from the seed.The syntactic planning stage determines theform of the generated Haiku, setting syntactic andaesthetic constraints for the generative process.
Thisis done in a data-driven way by considering commonline patterns from our Haiku corpus.
In a trainingstage, we POS-tagged each of the Haiku, and thenextracted a pattern from each of the Haiku lines.
Aline-pattern is a sequence of POS-tags, in which themost common words are lexicalized to include theword-form in addition to the POS-tag.
An examplefor such a line pattern might be DT the JJ NN.We kept the top-40 frequent patterns for each of theHaiku lines, overall 120 patterns.
When generating anew Haiku, we choose a random pattern for the firstline, then choose the second line pattern conditionedon the first, and the third line pattern conditionedon the second.
The line patterns are chosen with aprobability proportional to their relative frequenciesin the training corpus.
For the second and third lineswe use the conditional probabilities of a pattern ap-pearing after the previous line pattern.
The resultof this stage is a 3-line Haiku skeleton, dictating thenumber of words on each line, their POS-tags, andthe placement of specific function words.In the Content Selection stage, we look for pos-sible Haiku lines, based on our selected theme andsyntactic structure.
We go over our candidate lines5,and extract lines which match the syntactic patternsand contain a stemmed appearance of one of thestemmed theme words.
In our current implemen-tation, we require the first line to contain the seedword, and the second and third line to contain any of5These are POS-tagged n-grams extracted from a large textcorpora: the Google T1 dataset or Project Gutenberg36SEED WAN WORDNETDog puppy adorable cute heel villain villainessDog cat curious george hound scoundrel villainessWinter summer heat microwave wintertime solstice equinoxWinter chill cold alergy midwinter wintertime seasonNature animals instinct animals world body crotchNature natural environment surrounding complexion archaism octoroonObsession cologne perfume smell fixation preoccupation thoughtObsession compulsion feeling symptom compulsion onomatomania compulsionTable 2: Some random walks on the WordNet and WAN induced graphsthe theme words.
Other variations, such as choos-ing a different word set for each line, are of coursepossible.The over generation stage involves creatingmany possible Haiku candidates by randomlymatching lines collected in the content selectionstage.
We filter away Haiku candidates which havean undesired properties, such as repeating the samecontent-word in two different lines.All of the generated Haiku obey the syntactic andsemantic constraints, but not all of them are interest-ing.
Thus, we rank the Haiku in order to weed outthe better ones.
The top-ranking Haiku is the outputof our system.
Our current heuristic prefers highlyassociative Haikus.
This is done by counting thenumber of 1st and 2nd degree associations in eachHaiku, while giving more weight to 2nd degree as-sociations in order to encourage ?surprises?.
Whileall the candidate Haiku were generated based on acommon theme of intended associative connections,the content selection and adherence to syntactic con-straints introduce additional content words and withthem some new, unintended associative connections.Our re-ranking approach tries to maximize the num-ber of such connections.65 EvaluationThe ultimate goal of a poetry generation system is toproduce poems that will be considered good if writ-ten by a human poet.
It is difficult to evaluate to whatextent a poetry generation system can meet this goal(Ritchie, 2001; Manurung et al, 2000).
Difficultiesarise from two major sources: first, since a creative6While this heuristic works well, it leaves a lot to be desired.It considers only the quantity of the associations, and not theirquality.
Indeed, when looking at the Haiku candidates producedin the generation stage, one can find many interesting pieces,where some of the lower ranking ones are far better than the topranking.work should be novel, it cannot be directly evaluatedby comparison to some gold standard.
Second, it ishard for people to objectively evaluate the quality ofpoetry.
Even determining whether a text is a poemor not is not an easy task, as readers expect poetryto require creative reading, and tolerate, to some ex-tent, ungrammatical structures or cryptic meaning.5.1 ?Turing Test?
ExperimentTo evaluate the quality of Gaiku, we asked a groupof volunteers to read a set of Haiku, indicate howmuch they liked each one (on a scale of 1-5), andclassify each Haiku as written by a human or by acomputer.We compiled two sets of Haiku.
The first set(AUTO) contained 25 Haiku.
10 Haiku chosen atrandom from our Haiku corpus, and 15 computergenerated ones.
The computer generated Haikuwere created by identifying the main word in the firstline of each human-written Haiku, and passing it asa seed word to the Haiku generation algorithm (incase a first line in human-written Haiku containedtwo main words, two Haiku were generated).
We in-cluded the top-ranking Haiku returning from a singlerun of the system for each seed word.
The only hu-man judgement in compiling this set was in the iden-tification of the main words of the human Haiku.The second set (SEL) was compiled of 9 haiku po-ems that won awards7, and 17 computer Haiku thatwere selected by us, after several runs of the auto-matic process.
(Again, each poem in the automaticpoems set shared at least one word with some poemin the human Haiku set).The subjects were not given any informationabout the number of computer-generated poems inthe sets.7Gerald Brady Memorial Award Collection http://www.hsa-haiku.org/bradyawards/brady.htm 2006-200737The AUTO questionnaire was answered by 40subjects and the SEL one by 22.
(Altogether, 52 dif-ferent people took part in the experiment, as somesubjects answered both versions).
The subjects wereall adults (age 18 to 74), some were native Englishspeakers and others were fully fluent in English.
Ex-cept a few, they did not have academic backgroundin literature.5.2 Results and DiscussionResults are presented in Table 3 and Figure 1.Overall, subjects were correct in 66.7% of theirjudgements in AUTO and 61.4% in SEL.
The aver-age grade that a poem - human or machine-made -received correlates with the percentage of subjectswho classified it as human.
The average grade andrate of acceptance as written by human were signifi-cantly higher for the Haiku written by people.
How-ever, some computer Haiku rivaled the average hu-man poem in both measures.
This is true even forAUTO, in which both the generation and the selec-tion processes were completely automatic.
The bestcomputer Haiku of SEL scored better than most hu-man Haiku in both measures.The best computer poem in SEL was:early dew / the water contains / teaspoons of honeywhich got an average grade of 3.09 and was classi-fied as human by 77.2% of the subjects.At the other extreme, the computer poem (SEL):space journey / musical instruments mythology /of similar drugswas classified as human by only 9% of the subjects,and got an average grade of 2.04.The best Haiku in the AUTO set was:cherry tree / poisonous flowers lie / bloomingwhich was classified as human by 72.2% of the sub-jects and got an average grade of 2.75.The second human-like computer generatedHaiku in each set were:spring bloom / showing / the sun?s pyre(AUTO, 63.8% human) and:blind snakes / on the wet grass / tombstoned terror(SEL, 77.2% human).There were, expectedly, lots of disagreements.Poetry reading and evaluation is subjective and byHuman Poems GaikuAUTO avg.
% classified as Human 72.5% 37.2%avg.
grade 2.86 2.11SEL avg.
% classified as Human 71.7% 44.1%avg.
grade 2.84 2.32Table 3: Turing-test experiment resultsitself (in particular for Haiku) a creative task.
In ad-dition, people have very different ideas in mind as toa computer?s ability to do things.
(One subject said,for example, that the computer generatedholy cow / a carton of milk / seeking a churchis too stupid to be written by a computer; how-ever, content is very strongly connected and doesnot seem random).
On the other end, subjects oftenremarked that some of the human-authored Haikucontained metaphors which were too obvious to bewritten by a human.Every subject was wrong at least 3 times (at leastonce in every direction); every poem was wrongly-classified at least once.
Some really bad auto-poemsgot a good grade here and there, while even the mostpopular human poems got a low grade sometimes.6 Discussion and Future WorkWord association norms were shown to be a usefultool for a computational creativity task, aiding in thecreation of an automatic Haiku-generation software,which is able to produce ?human-like?
Haiku.
How-ever, associations can be used for many other tasks.In the last decade, lexical chains are often used invarious NLP tasks such as text summarization or textcategorization; WordNet is the main resource fordetecting the cohesive relationships between wordsand their relevance to a given chain (Morris andHirst, 1991).
We believe that using word associationnorms can enrich the information found in WordNetand enable the detection of more relevant words.Another possible application is for assistingword-finding problem of children with specific lan-guage impairments (SLI).
A useful tactic practicedas an assistance to retrieve a forgotten word is bysaying all words that come to mind.
The NLP task,therefore, is for a set of a given associations, recon-struct the targeted word.380 20 40 60 80 1001.522.533.54% of subjects who classified the poem as written by a humanAvaregegradeGaiku poemsHuman poems0 20 40 60 80 1001.522.533.54% of subjects who classified the poem as written by a humanAvaregegradeGaiku poemsHuman poemsFigure 1: Average grades and percentages of subjects who classified poems as written by humans, for AUTO (left)and SEL.
Circles represent Haiku written by people, and stars represent machine-made HaikuReferencesD.G.
Blasko and D.W. Merski.
1998.
Haiku poetryand metaphorical thought: An invention to interdisci-plinary study.
Creativity Research Journal, 11.M.A.
Boden.
1998.
Creativity and artificial intelligence.Artificial Intelligence, 103(1?2).F.
de Saussure, C. Bally, A. Riedlinger, andA.
Sechehaye.
1949.
Cours de linguistique gen-erale.
Payot, Paris.B.
D?
?az-Agudo, P. Gerva?s, and P. A. Gonza?lez-Calero.2002.
Poetry generation in COLIBRI.
In Proc.
of EC-CBR.W.
Duch and M. Pilichowski.
2007.
Experiments withcomputational creativity.
Neural Information Process-ing, Letters and Reviews, 11(3).P.
Gervas.
2001.
An expert system for the composition offormal Spanish poetry.
Journal of Knowledge-BasedSystems, 14.R.
Gilbert and J. Yoneoka.
2000.
From 5-7-5 to 8-8-8:An investigation of Japanese Haiku metrics and impli-cations for English Haiku.
Language Issues: Journalof the Foreign Language Education Center.D.
Hardcastle.
2007.
Cryptic crossword clues: Generat-ing text with a hidden meaning BBKCS-07-04.
Tech-nical report, Birkbeck College, London.J.
Kerouac.
2004.
Book of Haikus.
Enitharmon Press.H.M.
Manurung, G. Ritchie, and H. Thompson.
2000.Towards a computational model of poetry generation.In Proc.
of the AISB?00.H.M.
Manurung.
2003.
An evolutionary algorithm ap-proach to poetry generation.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Edinburgh.S.A.
Mendick.
1969.
The associative basis of the cre-ative process.
Psychological Review.N.
Montfort.
2006.
Natural language generation and nar-rative variation in interactive fiction.
In Proc.
of Com-putational Aesthetics Workshop at AAAI 2006, Boston.J.
Morris and G. Hirst.
1991.
Lexical cohesion computedby thesaural relations as an indicator of the structure oftext.
Computational Linguistics, 17.D.L.
Nelson, C.L.
Mcevoy, and T.A.
Schreiber.1998.
The University of South Florida WordAssociation, Rhyme, and Word Fragment Norms.http://www.usf.edu/FreeAssociation/.T.
Pedersen, S. Patwardhan, and J. Michelizzi.
2004.Wordnet::similarity - measuring the relatedness ofconcepts.
In HLT-NAACL 2004: Demonstrations.G.
Ritchie.
2001.
Assessing creativity.
In Proc.
ofAISB?01 Symposium.G.
Ritchie.
2006.
The transformational creativity hy-pothesis.
New Generation Computing, 24.O.
Rubinsten, D. Anaki, A. Henik, S. Drori, and Y. Faran.2005.
Free association norms in the Hebrew language.Word Norms in Hebrew.
(In Hebrew).A.
Sinopalnikova and P. Smrz.
2004.
Word associationthesaurus as a resource for extending semantic net-works.
In Communications in Computing.N.
Tosa, H. Obara, and M. Minoh.
2008.
Hitch haiku:An interactive supporting system for composing haikupoem.
In Proc.
of the 7th International Conference onEntertainment Computing.M.
Tsan Wong and A. Hon Wai Chun.
2008.
AutomaticHaiku generation using vsm.
In Proc.
of ACACOS?08,April.39
