Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 282?285,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsComparing Alternative Data-Driven Ontological Vistas ofNatural HistoryMarieke van Erp, Piroska Lendvai, and Antal van den BoschTilburg centre for Creative Computing, Tilburg University, The Netherlands{M.G.J.vanErp, P.Lendvai, Antal.vdnBosch}@uvt.nlAbstractTraditionally, domain ontologies are created manually, based on human experts?views on the classes and relations of the domain at hand.
We present ongoingwork on two approaches to the automatic construction of ontologies from a flatdatabase of records, and compare them to a manually constructed ontology.
Thelatter CIDOC-CRM ontology focusses on the organisation of classes and relations.In contrast, the first automatic method, based on machine learning, focuses on themutual predictiveness between classes, while the second automatic method, createdwith the aid of Wikipedia, stresses meaningful relations between classes.
The threeontologies show little overlap; their differences illustrate that a different focus duringontology construction can lead to radically different ontologies.
We discuss theimplications of these differences, and argue that the two alternative ontologies maybe useful in higher-level information systems such as search engines.1 IntroductionOntologies are explicit conceptualisations of domains.
A vast amount of work on on-tologies in the knowledge representation field has focussed on their use in facilitatingknowledge sharing between knowledge-based systems, and in the interaction betweensuch systems and human users [3].
Ontologies can for instance offer help in visualis-ing the domain for users, and hence improve their understanding of the information, orthey can be employed to enhance searching in domain data through for instance queryexpansion or faceted navigation.It is conceivable to have different ontologies for a single domain.
Although developersof traditional ontologies tend to stress that ?true?
ontologies are function-independent,in a more practical sense it is possible to design ontologies with a particular functionalityin mind, such as an embedding in an information system.
This may influence designchoices.
For certain tasks, a more formal and elaborate ontology is required, whereasfor other tasks a simpler conceptualisation of the domain that only contains the mostimportant classes and relations may suffice.
Such considerations may influence choiceswhen designing an ontology, as ontology construction is an expensive task, traditionallyrequiring knowledge from and formalisation by or with domain experts.282In the past decade, an increasing amount of work is invested in the development ofsupport systems for automatic or semi-automatic ontology construction, with workshopsdevoted to this topic at several AI conferences such as ECAI and IJCAI [1].
In this study,three ontologies for a single domain are presented.
The scenario is that at the outset wehave a database of records, each describing an instance of an object ?
in our case study,a zoological specimen in a natural history collection, described by several textual fields.The database column labels can serve as starting points for naming the class nodes inour ontology.
The task then is to find out how these classes are related to each other; welet two data-driven methods induce these relations.
As a gold standard for comparingour two automatic ontology construction methods, we also have a manually designedontology for the domain.2 Three OntologiesThe database used as a starting point in this paper describes key characteristics ofreptile and amphibian (R&A) specimens present in the collection of the Dutch NationalMuseum for Natural History1, using mostly textual database fields.
It is constructedmanually, and contains 16,870 records in 39 columns.
Most values are limited to oneor a few words, some fields contain longer stretches of text, for instance describing theclimatological circumstances or the location at which a specimen was found.2.1 A Hierarchical OntologyAs a baseline, an ontology was manually constructed following the CIDOC-CRM concep-tual model standards [2] (henceforth: CIDOC).
It is relatively straightforward to matcheach column (representing a salient domain concept) and its relevant relations from theR&A database to a class in CIDOC.
The prime goal of the CIDOC reference ontologyis to offer a framework to model the organisation of processes and entities within acultural heritage collection.
This goal leads to a richness in hierarchical relations, ex-pressing mainly hyponymy and meronymy relations.
In Figure 2.3, these relations areindicated by the uninterrupted lines.2.2 A Mutual Predictiveness OntologyThe second ontology is based on the application of machine learning methods to the R&Adatabase.
It aims to reflect the predictability of values in one database column on thebasis of values in other columns.
In ontological terms: knowing the values of certain fieldsin one instance, the values of certain other fields may be predicted accurately.
Indeed, weshow by performing machine learning experiments that in our database certain columnsare conditionally dependent on each other.
For instance, if the ?Province?
field of arecord has the value West Java, most machine learning methods can be trained to inducethat the value in the ?Country?
field must be Indonesia given enough training samples1http://www.naturalis.nl283of database records.
Such conditional dependencies can be directly used for our currentgoal: establishing relations between classes.
When a machine learning algorithm (such asa machine learning algorithm adopting an explicit feature selection preprocessing step)actively selects a database column to predict the values of another column, we assumethat in the ontology the class nodes belonging to the two database fields are connectedby a directed ?predictiveness?
relation.
In Figure 2.3, the dotted lines represent therelations between a class and its single-most predictive class.2.3 A Hybrid OntologyThe second data-driven ontology proposed here again utilises the R&A database, aswell as a human-made semantic network resource, in order to look for possible relationsbetween the classes.
The database is a handy starting point, as each record is alreadya structured piece of information carrying instances of paired values.
These pairs aresubsequently looked up in the external semantic network resource, to verify whether thisresource knows the particular relation between this pair ?
which may in turn be a goodcandidate label for the relation between the pairs?
classes.To this purpose we chose to use the online encyclopaedia Wikipedia2.
Wikipedia?slink structure can be considered a semantic network, as the guidelines for contributorsstate that links from the page of one concept to another should only be added when theyare meaningfully related [4].
We find candidate relation labels between database columnsby discovering relations, i.e.
linguistic predicates between values from these columns co-occurring within the limits of a sentence, given that their Wikipedia pages are linked.The obtained verb phrases are ranked by frequency and annotated by human evaluators.In Figure 2.3 the relations in this hybrid ontology are indicated by the dashed lines.
Forthe sake of clarity not all concepts within the domain are shown in the graph and relationlabels are also excluded.COLLECTORPROVINCEGENUSCITYFAMILYLOCATIONCOUNTRYPRESERVATION METHODDETERMINATORCLASSSPECIESLABEL INFOCOLLECTION NUMBERRECORDER DATECOLLECTION DATE OLD FORMATNUMBERCOUNTRY CODECOLLECTION DATE EXPEDITIONRECORDERORDEALTITUDEFigure 1: Relations from hierarchical, data-driven and hybrid ontologies2http://www.wikipedia.org/2843 DiscussionThe three ontologies presented in the previous section are remarkably different from eachother; their overlap is minimal.
This can only be attributed to the different buildingprinciples of the three ontologies.In the machine-learning-based ontology, a relation signifies a conditional dependencyrelation between two classes.
Interestingly, this method uncovers relations betweenclasses of radically different entity types (such as between collectors and locations) thatare yet meaningful in the domain.
Conditional dependence can also be a guideline fordata storage, as it indicates which information is redundant, and can thus be compressedor stored optimally.The hybrid ontology offers a middle ground between the machine learning andCIDOC ontologies.
It is created via analysing human-generated content in an exter-nal semantic resource, namely Wikipedia.
The obtained relations originate from a poolof possible rankings by human judges, therefore we argue that this ontology representsrelations in the natural history domain that are fairly accepted.
Compared to the hy-brid ontology, the CIDOC ontology is rather sparse; for instance, between the biologicaltaxon concepts it strictly encodes the hypernym relations between parent and childnodes, whereas the hybrid ontology tends to link everything that is somehow relatedaccording to encyclopaedic evidence.To conclude, we believe the hybrid approach is still crude, but it does produce possiblelinks between domain concepts attested in an external encyclopeadic resource, whilerequiring little effort in development.
We also believe that conditional dependence, asdetectable through machine learning, should be considered as a ground for establishingrelations between concepts.
While the final decision should be left to human experts,both methods may serve as useful ontology expansion proposal methods.References[1] Paul Buitelaar, Philipp Cimiano, and Bernardo Magnini, editors.
Ontology Learningfrom Text: Methods, Evaluation and Applications.
IOS Press, 2005.
[2] Nick Crofts, Martin Doerr, Tony Gill, Stephen Stead, and Matthew Stiff.
Definitionof the cidoc conceptual reference model.
Technical report, ICOM/CIDOC CRMSpecial Interest Group, 2008.
[3] Thomas R. Gruber.
Formal Ontology in Conceptual Analysis and Knowledge Repre-sentation, chapter Toward Principles for the Design of Ontologies used for knowledgesharing, pages 907?928.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1995.
[4] Jaap Kamps and Marijn Koolen.
The importance of link evidence in Wikipedia.In Craig Macdonald et al editor, Advances in Information Retrieval: 30th EuropeanConference on IR Research (ECIR 2008), volume 4956 of Lecture Notes in ComputerScience, pages 270?282, Heidelberg, 2008.
Springer Verlag.285
