Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 153?160,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPThai National Corpus: A Progress ReportWirote AroonmanakunDepartment of LinguisticsChulalongkorn Universityawirote@chula.ac.thKachen TansiriThai National Corpus ProjectChulalongkorn Universitykc.tansiri@gmail.comPairit NittayanuparpThai National Corpus ProjectChulalongkorn Universitycherngx@gmail.comAbstractThis paper presents problems and solutions indeveloping Thai National Corpus (TNC).
TNCis designed to be a comparable corpus of Brit-ish National Corpus.
The project aims to col-lect eighty million words.
Since 2006, theproject can now collect only fourteen millionwords.
The data is accessible from the TNCWeb.
Delay in creating the TNC is mainlycaused from obtaining authorization of copy-right texts.
Methods used for collecting dataand the results are discussed.
Errors during theprocess of encoding data and how to handlethese errors will be described.1 Thai National CorpusThai National Corpus (TNC) is a general corpusof the standard Thai language (Aroonmanakun,2007).
It is designed to be comparable to theBritish National Corpus (Aston and Burnard,1998) in terms of its domain and medium propor-tions.
However, only written texts are collectedin the TNC, and the corpus size is targeted ateighty million words.
In addition to domain andmedium criteria, texts are also selected and cate-gorized on the basis of their genres.
We adoptedLee?s idea of categorizing texts into differentgenres based on external factors like the purposeof communication, participants, and the settingsof communication (Lee 2001).
Texts in the samegenre share the same characteristics of languageusages, e.g.
discourse structure, sentence pat-terns, etc.
Moreover, since TNC is a representa-tive of the standard Thai language at present,90% of the texts will be texts produced before1998.
The rest 10% can be texts produced before1998 if they are published recently.
Therefore,the structure of TNC is shaped on the dimensionsof domain, medium, genres and time (see Table1).
Texts that fit into the designed portion ofthese criteria will be selected.
After that, copy-right holders of each text will be contacted andasked to sign a permission form.
To make thisprocess easier, the same form is used for all cop-yright holders.
When authorization is granted,texts are randomly selected either from the be-ginning, the middle, the end, or selected frommany sections.
Sampling size can vary, but themaximum size will not exceed 40,000 words orabout 80 pages of A4 paper.In this TNC project, we use the TEI guideline,?TEI P4?, as the markup language.
Three typesof information are marked in the document: do-cumentation of encoded data, primary data, andlinguistic annotation.
Documentation of encodeddata is the markup used for contextual informa-tion about the text.
Primary data refers to the ba-sic elements in the text, such as paragraphs, sec-tions, sentences, etc.
Linguistic annotation is themarkup used for linguistic analysis, such as partsof speech, sentence structures, etc.
The first twotypes are the minimum requirements for markingup texts.
The structure of each document isrepresented in the following tags:<tncDoc  xml:id=?DocName?><tncHeader> ?markup for contextual informa-tion ?</tncHeader><text> ?body text, markup for primary data e.g.<p> and linguistic analysis e.g.
<w>,   <name>?.</text></tncDoc>For linguistic annotation, we mark wordboundaries and transcriptions for every word.Information of parts-of-speech will not bemarked at present.
The following is an exampleof markup in a document.<w tran="kot1maaj4">?</w><wtran="thaN3"></w> <w>3</w> <wtran="cha1bap1"></w><w tran="mii0">153</w><w tran="lak3sa1na1">?</w><wtran="mUUan4"></w><w tran="kan0">?</w><w tran="juu1"></w><w tran="jaaN1"></w><w tran="nUN1"></w>We recognize that marking tags manually is adifficult and a time-consuming task, so for thisproject, two programs are used for tagging lan-guage data and contextual information.
TNCTagger is used for segmenting words and mark-ing basic tags <w> and <p> in the text.
Wordsegmentation and transcription program pro-posed in Aroonmanakun and Rivepiboon (2004)is used as a tagger.
TNC Header is used for in-putting contextual information and generatingheader tag for each text.
Output from TNC Tag-ger will be combined with the header tag as anXML document.2 Data collectionThis section explains methods of data collectionand the outcomes.
First, we thought that textscould be collected easily from publishers.
So, wefirst wrote a letter to three major publishers ask-ing for collaboration.
We thought that theywould be able to provide us lot of texts in elec-tronic formats.
So, we asked them to give us alist of their publications and mark for us itemsthat they have in electronic forms.
It turned outthat they did not even understand much about thecorpus and the purpose of collecting texts.
Thus,we did not receive positive responses as ex-pected.
Only one publisher was able to give usthe list of their publications.
The rest asked us tobe more specific about the texts we want.
Thefault is ours because we did not make clear whattexts that we want and how their rights on thetexts will be protected.
Thus, corresponding withthe publishers did not go smoothly and quicklyas it should be.
We also learned that the publish-ers are not the owners of all the texts.
It dependson the agreement signed between the authors andthe publishers.
Normally, the author is the copy-right holder.
Publishers may hold the copyrightfor a certain period agreed by both parties.Later, before we wrote to a publisher askingfor their helps, we searched and listed the titleand the number of pages that we want from eachtext.
Project details and samples of concordanceoutput were enclosed to give them a  better un-derstanding of the project.
And we only askedthe publishers to collaborate by providing us thecontact address of the copyright holder of eachtext.
This time we received a positive responsefrom many publishers.
From twenty two publish-ers we contacted, only one publisher officiallyrefused to collaborate for their own reasons.Fourteen publishers did not response.
Seven ofthem sent us the information we requested.
Afterwe received the contact addresses from the pub-lishers, we then wrote a letter directly to the au-thor.
A permission form in which selected publi-cations are listed was attached in the letter.
Weasked them to sign a permission form and returnit in the enclosed envelope.
To make them feeleasier to support us, we informed them that theymay remove their works from the TNC anytimeby writing a letter informing us to do so.
We didnot even ask for a copy of the book or the article.We will look for those texts and typing them inourselves.
By doing this, we did not put a burdenon the copyright owners.
In addition, we con-tacted the P.E.N International-Thailand Centre,which is the association of publishers, editors,and novelists in Thailand, asking for contact ad-dresses of novelists.
For academic writers, wesearched for their contact addresses from univer-sity websites.
Of those 780 authors we had con-tacted, 250 of them granted us the permission touse their texts.
We suspected that the address listwe received from the P.E.N International-Thailand Centre may be out-of-date because wereceived only 41 replies from 278 requests tonovelists.For texts that are not copyrighted in Thai, e.g.news reports, documents from governments,laws and orders etc., they are collected prefera-bly from those that are available in the internet.After texts were saved in electronic formatand catalogued in the database, they were parsedby the TNC Tagger program.
Texts will be wordsegmented and marked basic tags as described inthe previous section.
The process is not fully au-tomatic.
The program will ask a user to make acorrection if any chunk of texts could not beparsed.
This usually happened because there wasa spelling error within that text chunk.
After thetext is parsed, contextual information of the textwill be inserted by using the TNC Header pro-gram.
With these two programs, texts are con-verted into an XML format that conforms to theTEI P4 standard.
Some problems occurred dur-ing this process will be discuss in section 4.3 TNC webIt is now clear that collecting eighty millionwords is a long time process.
At present, onlyfourteen million words are processed in the TNC.Nevertheless, it is a good idea to make the corpus154accessible to the public.
So, we had been devel-oping a web interface to search the TNC, or theTNC web1.TNC web is a web interface for concordancesoftware that will show not only keyword-in-context but also collocations and distributions ofthe keyword.
When users enter a keyword, thedistribution of keyword in five major genres willbe shown on the right window.
Users can clickon the frequency of occurrence in any genre onthis window.
A concordance window will thenbe displayed underneath.
Users can filter thesearch by specifying a genre, a domain, pub-lished year, authors?
age range, and authors?gender.
By doing this, users can search for theoccurrence of the keyword in any specific con-text.
Figure 1 shows the screen of concordancesearch from TNC web.Collocation is searched by clicking on the icon?COLLOCATE?.
Collocations within 1-3 wordson the left and right contexts will be ranked bystatistical measure.
Frequency of occurrence infive major genres will also be shown.
Users canclick on these numbers to see the concordancecontext.
Figures 2 and 3 shows the collocation ofthe keyword  ?
?run?
using log-likelihood andmutual information .To make the processing time acceptable, theXML data was converted into MySQL databaseand PHP scripting language was used for webdevelopment.
Co-occurrences of words are alsostored as precache data.
By doing this, the size ofthe data storage gets larger.
The XML data of 14million words, which is about 365 megabytes, isexpanded to 2,064 megabytes on the server.Though at present, the TNC is not balance anddoes not have a proportion of texts as planned,making it searchable through the web is still auseful idea.
Users can get authentic data in vari-ous genres.
And it would be easier for us to ex-plain to the public what the TNC is and how itcan be used.4 ProblemsThe difficulties of creating the TNC aregrounded on management rather than technicalproblems.
The most difficult part is to get copy-right texts.
Unexpected errors during the processof creating an annotation text are also anotherproblem causing a delay in creating the TNC.1 http://www.arts.chula.ac.th/~ling/ tnc2/4.1 Getting more textsThough the use of corpora is quite well known toacademics, it is little known to the public atlarge.
Without understanding from the peopleespecially writers and publishers, it is not easy toget the support and collaboration from them.This is the main obstruction causing a delay increating the TNC.
Implementing TNC web is onemethod of getting TNC known to the public.Another strategy that we plan to do is to public-ize the project and praise those who contributedtheir texts to the project.
At this moment, a num-ber of famous novelists had granted us the per-mission to include parts of their novels in theTNC.
We could use these names to make otherpeople feel that it is a privilege to have their textsas a part of TNC.Another strategy of promoting TNC is toshow its worth.
We plan to publish a series oflinguistic papers that use TNC as data of analy-sis, and demonstrate how basic information likeword frequency and collocations in different ge-nres can be used for teaching the Thai language.4.2 Validating dataThe delay in creating the TNC is also causedduring the process of encoding data.
As statedearlier in section 2, texts have to be parsed andencoded as XML data.
During this process, dif-ferent types of errors are found.
These have to behandled to make the data correct and consistent.System errors (unintentional): This is an unin-tentional typo that produces an ill-formed string.These errors are easier to detect and most peoplewould agree that they should be corrected.
Forexample,  is ill-formed because a conso-nant character is missing after .
This stringcannot be parsed and read.
It should be edited as ?car, broken, this morning?.System errors (intentional): This is an inten-tional typo that produces an ill-formed string.Even if the string produced from this type is ill-formed with respect to orthography rules, theyare written intentionally to intensify meaning.For example, ?????
-?difficult?
is a word in whichthe last consonant is repeated to intensify the de-gree of difficulty.Hidden errors: This is also an unintentionaltypo error because the actual text should besomething else.
But the error does not producean ill-formed string.
The string can be parsed andreadable.
But its meaning could be strange be-cause the actual word is mistaken as anotherword.
For example, the phrase 	?
  is well-155formed because it can be read as four words  "?, ?car, grandfather, middle, street?.
But itsmeaning is anomalous.
Thus, it should bechanged to  	 ?
 , ?car, broken, middle,street?
- ?the car was broken in the middle of thestreet.
This type of error is called ?hidden error?because it could not be detected by simply apply-ing orthography rules.
To correct this type oferror, manual editing might be required.Variation of writing: This type is not exactlyan error.
It is a variation of written form pro-duced by different authors.
From a prescriptiveview, it could be viewed as an error and shouldbe corrected.
Some variations are a result of thelack of knowledge in spelling.
For example,some people write the word #?$%&"'  ?globaliza-tion?
incorrectly as #?$%&('.
Some write the wordthat does not conform to orthographic rules, e.g.
)*+, which should be written as )*+ ?buzzing?.
It ispossible that they do not know how to spell thesewords, which makes it an unintentional error.Preserving these errors would provide us authen-tic information, which will be very useful forstudying spelling problems.
Nevertheless, sincethe TNC is expected to be a reference of Thailanguage usages, keeping these variations couldconfuse users who want to know the correct orstandard form of writing.
Therefore, these varia-tions should be corrected and removed from theTNC.
However, these variations will be saved inan error log file for further use of spelling prob-lems.2However, we do not think that all variations ofwriting are errors.
Variations caused by differenttransliteration methods should be kept as theyare.
When transliterating foreign words, it is like-ly that they are written differently despite the factthat a guideline for transliteration to Thai hasbeen proposed by the Royal Institute.
For exam-ple, the word ?internet?
is found written as?%"',"?, ?%"'"?, ?%"'?, ?%"',?,?%',"?, ?%'"?
, or ?%',.
All of thesevariations are not seen as errors and therefore arenot modified.Segmentation errors: These are errors causedby the segmentation program.
It is likely that theprogram would segment proper names incorrect-ly.
For example, the name & ?-%.
is seg-mented as <w tran="naaj0"></w><wtran="wan0">&</w><w tran="chaj0"></w>2 Thanks to Dr. Virach Sornlertlamvanich for makingthis suggestion.<w tran="kuu2">?</w><w tran="pra1s@@t1">-%.</w>, instead of <w tran="naaj0"></w><w tran="wan0chaj0">&</w> <wtran="kuu2pra1s@@t1">?-%.</w>.
A Thainamed entity recognition module is needed tohandle this problem.
But before the module isincluded in the TNC tagger, these errors have tobe manually corrected.To correct errors caused by typos, we couldcompare the same text typed by two typists.
Butthis method would double the expense of typing.Therefore, we seek to detect typos indirectly byusing the TNC Tagger program.
Basically, theprogram will segment words in the text.
If a typocauses an ill-formed character sequence, the pro-gram will fail to segment that character se-quence.
Then, a pop-up screen asking for a cor-rection of that string sequence will appear.
If it isan unintentional system error, the correct wordwill be typed in.
If it is an intentional system er-ror, the intentionally incorrect word will betagged manually.
After the program finishessegmenting words, the program will create a listof unknown words (words that are not found inthe dictionary) and words that occur only once inthe file.
This word list will be used by the TNCEditor program for spotting errors that are nottypos.
TNC Editor will be used for manuallyediting the document, especially the hidden, var-iation, and segmentation errors.4.3 Obtaining authorizationAcquiring permission from the copyright holdersis a time consuming process.
We once thought ofa way to use copyright text under a condition of?fair use?
stated in the copyright protection act inThailand.
According to the act, any writing isautomatically protected by the law throughoutthe life of the creator plus fifty years after theauthor dies.
However, some works are not copy-righted, such as news reports which are facts ra-ther than opinions; constitution and laws; rules,regulation, reports or documents issued by gov-ernment organizations, etc.On section 32 of the copyright protection act,certain uses of copyright materials are not consi-dered a violation of copyright law, such as mak-ing a copy of text for research purpose withoutmaking a profit, making a copy for private use,for criticism with an acknowledgement of thewriter, for teaching or educational purpose with-out making a profit, etc.
But all these activitiesmust not affect the benefits that the copyrightholders should have received from their works.156In addition, on section 33, it is stated that a rea-sonable and acceptable part of a copyright workcan be copied or cited if the copyright owner isacknowledged.
Therefore, we had consulted aneminent law firm whether our project can makeuse of these exceptions of the Thai copyrightlaw.
Is it possible to argue that the texts we col-lected are used for educational/research purposeand no profit is generated from the TNC?
In ad-dition, users can see the bibliographic referenceof each concordance line.
Thus, is it possible toconclude that our uses of copyright texts are un-der the condition of ?fair use??
However, thelawyers thought that we cannot use those argu-mentations since the text size we collected couldbe up to 40,000 words.
Although the reference tothe source text is shown to the users, the textlength is greater than acceptable level.
The TNCproject is the project for creating a new database.Texts collected in this project are not used forcriticism or for the study of those texts per se.Our activity in collecting copyright texts couldaffect the benefits the copyright holder shouldhave.
Thus, the creation of a corpus is not underthe conditions of sections 32 and 33.
At the end,the law firm advised us to continue asking forauthorization from the copyright holder as wehave been doing.5 Future planWe plan to run three tasks concurrently: clean-ing up data, expanding data, and utilizing thecorpus.
For cleaning up data, Thai named entityrecognition module will be implemented to re-duce errors of word segmentation.
But at the end,TNC Editor is needed to clean up segmented datamanually.
The program is now under develop-ment by IBM Thailand Co.,Ltd.
For expandingdata, more publishers and writers are being con-tacted.
Copyright texts are now constantly beingadded into the corpus.
But to increase the growthrate of the corpus size, we would prefer to havepeople submitting their works themselves.
Wehope that by making the corpus searchable onlineand revealing famous writers who had contri-buted their works will make people feel that it isthe prestige to have their works included in thecorpus.
It remains to be seen whether our plan topublicize the TNC project will be successful.And finally, to increase the worth of TNC, wewill encourage linguists to use TNC as the basisof Thai language studies.
Basic facts like wordlists in different genres will be released.
We alsohope that new Thai language resources like dic-tionaries and grammar books could be producedbased on the actual usages found in the TNC.6 ConclusionIn this paper we described the current status ofthe TNC project and the problems causing thedelay of collecting data.
The future work willstill be focused on collecting more texts, bothcopyright and non-copyright material.
We hopeto fill the TNC with texts according to the de-signed proportion in the dimensions of domain,medium, and genres.
We hope that our publiciz-ing plan, making the TNC known to the publicand praising those who contributed their texts,would easy the process of text collection.Given that there are a huge number of textsavailable on the internet, it would be easier tocollect texts from the internet without goingthrough the process of obtaining authorizationfrom the copyright holders.
In fact, many corporahave been collected directly from the web (Baro-ni and Ueyama, 2006; Fletcher, 2007), or theweb itself has been used as a corpus (Killgarriffand Grefenstettey, 2003).
It might be true thatnatural language processing research can useweb as data source for their works effectively.Nevertheless, we think that by getting authoriza-tion from text owners, we could fully distributethe source data.
And this is necessary for linguis-tic analysis.
In addition, by manually selectingand categorizing data to be included in the cor-pus, users can look for similarity and differencebetween different text settings.
Therefore, webelieve that the creation of TNC will still befruitful for research especially on Thai linguisticanalysis.AcknowledgmentsThe TNC project is under the patronage ofH.R.H Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn.
It isconducted by the linguistics department, withcollaboration from many researchers and pub-lishers.
Special thanks to Mr.Domnern Gardenfor actively supporting the project till the end ofhis life.ReferencesAroonmanakun, W. 2007.
Creating the Thai NationalCorpus.
Manusaya.
Special Issue No.13, 4-17.Aroonmanakun, W., and W. Rivepiboon.
2004.
AUnified Model of Thai Word Segmentation andRomanization.
In  Proceedings of The 18th PacificAsia Conference on Language, Information and157Computation, Dec 8-10, 2004, Tokyo, Japan.
205-214.Aston, G. and L. Burnard.
1998.
The BNC handbook:exploring the British National Corpus with SARA.Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.Baroni, M. and M. Ueyama.
2006.
Building general-and special-purpose corpora byWeb crawling.
InProceedings 13th NIJL International Symposium,Language Corpora: Their Compilation and Appli-cation, Tokyo, Japan, 31-40.Fletcher, William H. 2007.
Implementing a BNC-Compare-able Web Corpus.
In Proceedings of the3rd web as corpus workshop, incorporating clea-neval, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, 15-16 Septem-ber 2007, 43-56.Killgarriff, A, and G. Grefenstettey.
2003.
Web asCorpus.
In Computational Linguistics 9(3): 333-347.Lee, D. 2001.
Genres, registers, text types, domainsand styles: clarifying the concepts and navigating apath through the BNC jungle.
Language Learning& Technology, 5(3): 37-72.TEI guidelines.
http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/[Accessed 2009-04-24].TNC web.
http://www.arts.chula.ac.th/~ling/TNC/[Accessed 2009-04-24].158Domain  MediumImaginative 25% Book 60%Informative 75% Periodical 20%Applied science  Published miscellanea 5-10%Arts  Unpublished miscellanea 5-10%Belief and thought  Internet 5%Commerce and financeLeisure  TimeNatural and pure science  1998-present (2541-2550) 90-100%Social science  1988-1997 (2531-2540) 0-10%World affairs  * before 1988 (-2531) 0-5%Genres Sub-genresAcademicHumanities, e.g.
Philosophy, History, Literature, Art, MusicMedicineNatural Sciences, e.g.
Physics, Chemistry, BiologyPolitical Science - Law ?
EducationSocial Sciences, e.g.
Psychology, Sociology, LinguisticsTechnology & Engineering, e.g.
Computing, EngineeringNon-AcademicHumanitiesMedicineNatural SciencesPolitical Science - Law ?
EducationSocial SciencesTechnology & EngineeringAdvertisementBiography - ExperiencesCommerce - Finance ?
EconomicsReligionInstitutional DocumentsInstructional ?
DIYLaw & RegulationEssaySchoolUniversityLetterPersonalProfessionalBlogMagazineNews reportEditorial - OpinionInterview ?
Question & AnswerPrepared speechFictionDramaPoetryProseShort StoriesMiscellaneaTable 1: Design of Thai National Corpus159Figure 1: Concordance search result of the word  ?run?Figure 2: Collocation of the word  ?run?
using Dunning?s Log-likelihoodFigure 3: Collocation of the word  ?run?
using Mutual Information160
