Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 146?153,Athens, Greece, 30 ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Empirical Evaluation of Affective Tactical NLGIelka van der SluisTrinity College DublinDublinielka.vandersluis@cs.tcd.ieChris MellishUniversity of AberdeenAberdeenc.mellish@abdn.ac.ukAbstractOne major aim of research in affective nat-ural language generation is to be able touse language intelligently to induce effectson the emotions of the reader/ hearer.
Al-though varying the content of generatedlanguage (?strategic?
choices) might beexpected to change the effect on emotions,it is not obvious that varying the form ofthe language (?tactical?
choices) can dothis.
Indeed, previous experiments havebeen unable to show emotional effects oftactical variations.
Building on what hasbeen discovered in previous experiments,we present a new experiment which doesdemonstrate such effects.
This representsan important step towards the empiricalevaluation of affective NLG systems.1 IntroductionThis paper is about developing techniques for theempirical evaluation of affective natural languagegeneration (NLG).
Affective NLG has been de-fined as ?NLG that relates to, arises from or de-liberately influences emotions or other non-strictlyrational aspects of the Hearer?
(De Rosis andGrasso, 2000).
It currently covers two mainstrands of work, the portrayal of non-rational as-pects in an artificial speaker/writer (e.g.
the workof Mairesse and Walker (2008) on projecting per-sonality) and the use of NLG in ways sensitive tothe non-rational aspects of the hearer/reader andcalculated to achieve effects on these aspects (e.g.the work of De Rosis et al (1999) on generat-ing instructions in an emotionally charged situa-tion and that of Moore et al (2004) on producingappropriate tutorial feedback).
Although there hasbeen success in evaluating work of the first kind,it remains more problematic to evaluate whetherwork of the second type directly affects emotion ormood, or whether it influences task performancefor other reasons.Since the work of Thompson (1977), NLG taskshave been considered to divide mainly into thoseinvolving strategy (?deciding what to say?)
andtactics (?deciding how to say it?).
It seems clearthat one can affect a reader?s emotion differentlyby making different strategic decisions about con-tent (e.g.
telling someone that they have passedan exam will make them happier than telling themthat they have failed), but it is less clear that tac-tical alternations (e.g.
involving ordering of ma-terial, choice of words or syntactic constructions)can have these kinds of effects.
Unfortunately,the exact dividing line between strategy and tac-tics remains a matter of debate.
For the purposeof this paper, we take ?strategic?
to cover mattersof basic propositional content (the basic informa-tion to be communicated) and ?tactical?
to includemost linguistic issues, including matters of em-phasis and focus, inasmuch as they can be influ-enced by linguistic formulation.
It is important toknow whether tactical choices can influence emo-tions because to a large extent NLG research con-centrates on tactical issues (partly because strate-gic NLG remains a rather domain-specific activ-ity).Some light on the effects of tactical variationsin text is shed by work in Psychology, where therehas been a great deal of work on the effects of the?framing?
of a text (Moxey and Sanford, 2000;Teigen and Brun, 2003).
Some of this has beenindustrially funded, as there are considerable ap-plications, for instance, in advertising.
The alter-native texts considered differ in ways that NLG re-searchers would call tactical.
For instance, a pieceof meat could be described as ?75% lean?
or ?25%fat?, and arguably these are alternative truthful de-scriptions of the same situation.
However, evalu-ation of this work has been primarily in terms ofwhether it affects people?s choices or evaluations146of options available (Levin et al, 1998), or otheraspects of task performance (O?Hara and Stern-berg, 2001; Brown and Pinel, 2003; Cadinu et al,2005).
As far as we know it is unknown whetheremotions can be affected in this way.
There istherefore an open question about whether it is pos-sible to detect the non-rational effects of differ-ent tactical decisions on readers.
We believe thatachieving this is important for the further scientificdevelopment of affective NLG.In the rest of this paper, we discuss previous(unsuccessful) attempts to measure emotional ef-fects of tactical decisions in texts (section 2), theparticular linguistic choices we have focussed on,including a text validation experiment (section 3)and our choice of a method for measuring emo-tions (section 4).
In section 5 we then present anew study which for the first time demonstratessignificant differences in emotions evoked in read-ers associated with tactical textual variations.
Wethen briefly reflect on this result in a concludingsection.2 Background for the Present StudyIn (van der Sluis and Mellish, 2008) we de-scribed several experiments investigating differ-ent methods of measuring the effects of texts onemotions to demonstrate that tactical differenceswould lead to differences in effects.
Our methodwas to present participants with texts about cancer-causing chemicals in foods or unexpected health-giving properties of drinking water and to attemptto measure the emotions invoked by different vari-ations of these texts.
However, we were unableto show statistically significant results of tacticalvariations.
We mentioned the following possibleexplanations for this:?
We used methods where participants reported on theirown emotions.
However, it could be that (in this con-text) participants were unwilling or unable to report ac-curately.?
The self-reporting methods used were perhaps not finegrained enough to register the differences between theeffects of similar texts.?
The texts themselves were perhaps too subtly differentor not long enough to induce strong emotions.?
The participants were perhaps not involved enough inthe task to get strong emotions.We believe that of these, the final reason is themost compelling.
The self-reporting methods usedhad been validated and used in multiple previousstudies in Psychology, and so there was no rea-son to suggest that they would fundamentally failin this new context.
The granularity of the mea-surement methods can be improved relatively sim-ply (see section 4 below).
But it is very believ-able that the participants would fail to be reallyconcerned by the texts in the experiments reportedsince the source was unclear, the message a gen-eral one not addressed to them individually and thetopic (healthy and unhealthy food) one that occursoften enough in newspapers to fail to overcomenatural boredom.The main innovation of the experiment we de-scribe below was in our method of seeking theemotional involvement of the participants.
Thetexts that the participants read took the form of?feedback?
on a (fake) IQ test that they undertookas part of the experiment.
We selected universitystudents as the participants, as they would likelybe concerned about their intelligence, especiallyas compared to their peers.
The texts appeared tobe written individually for the participants and sosought to engage them directly.3 Linguistic Choice and FramingAs in (van der Sluis and Mellish, 2008), the studywe present here sought to evoke positive emotionsto differing extents in a reader by tactical manip-ulations to ?slant?
the tasks positively to varyingdegrees.
This section describes the text variationsused and their validation.3.1 Tactical MethodsThe two texts produced for this experiment werewritten by hand, but used the following methodsto give a more ?positive slant?
to a text.
These areall methods that could be implemented straight-forwardly in an NLG system1.
In the follow-ing, the word ?positive polarity?
is used to referto propositions giving good news to the reader orattributes which give good news to the reader ifthey have high values (such as the reader?s intel-ligence).
Similarly ?negative polarity?
refers toitems that represent bad news, e.g.
failing a test.For ethical reasons, negative polarity items did notarise in this experiment.A.
Sentence emphasis - include explicit emphasis in sen-tences expressing positive polarity propositions (e.g.exclamation marks and phrases such as ?on top ofthis?
).1Though the choice about when to apply them might notbe so straightforward.147B.
Choice of vague evaluative adjectives - when evaluat-ing positive polarity attributes, choose vague evaluativeadjectives that are more positive over ones that are lesspositive (e.g.
?excellent?, rather than ?ok?).C.
Choice of vague adverbs - provide explicit emphasis topositive polarity propositions by including vague ad-verbs expressing great extent (e.g.
?significantly?,rather than ?to some extent?
or no adverb).D.
Choice of verbs - for a positive polarity proposition,choose a verb that emphasises the great extent of theproposition (e.g.
?outperformed?, rather than ?did bet-ter than?).E.
Choice of realisation of rhetorical relations - when re-alising a concession/contrast relation between a pos-itive polarity proposition and one that is negative orneutral, word it so that the positive polarity proposi-tion is in the nucleus (more emphasised) position (e.g.say ?although you did badly on X, you did well on Y?instead of ?although you did well on Y, you did badlyon X?
).The idea is that an NLG system would employmethods of this kind in order to ?slant?
a mes-sage positively, rather that to present a messagein a more neutral way.
This might be done, forinstance, to induce positive emotions in a readerwho needs encouragement.We claim that these choices can be viewed astactical, i.e.
that they are ?allowable?
alterna-tive realisations of the same underlying content.For instance, we believe a teacher could use suchmethods in giving feedback to a student need-ing encouragement without fear of prosecution formisrepresenting the same truth that would be ex-pressed without the use of these methods.Whenever one words a proposition in differ-ent ways, it can be claimed that a (perhaps sub-tle) change of meaning is involved.
However, inthese cases we claim that it is the writer?s atti-tudes that are being manipulated (and reflected inthe text).
We can therefore choose between thesealternatives by varying the writer, not the under-lying message.
Our view is supported by a num-ber of current accounts of the semantics of vagueadjectives (though this is not an area without con-troversy).
Many accounts of vagueness appeal tothe idea that there is a norm which an adjectivelike ?tall?
implicitly refers to, and some of theseargue both that the norm itself can be contextuallydetermined and also that the amount by which thenorm has to be exceeded has to be ?significant?to a degree which is ?relativized to some agent?
(Kennedy, 2007).
For instance, with the phrase?John is tall?
?the property [...] attributed to John is notan intrinsic property, but rather a relational one.Moreover, it is not a property the possession ofwhich depends only on the difference betweenJohns height and some norm, but also on whetherthat difference is a significant one.
I take it thatwhether or not a difference is a significant differ-ence does not depend only on its magnitude, butalso on what our interests are?
(Graff, 2000)It is compatible with these accounts that differ-ent agents, with different interests and notions ofwhat is noteworthy, can use vague adjectives indifferent ways2.Another reason for considering these meth-ods as tactical is that in an NLG system, theywould likely be implemented somewhere late inthe ?pipeline?.Probably the best way to check that we are usingtactical alternations (according to our definition) isvia some kind of text validation experiment withhuman participants.
Section 3.3 below describessuch an experiment, which provides strong sup-port for this position.3.2 Test TextsFor the experiment, we produced two feedbacktexts describing the same set of intelligence testresults, one relatively neutral and one ?positivelyslanted?
using the above methods.
In the ex-periment, they were given to participants in twogroups, named ?0?
and ?+?
respectively.
Each textconsisted of 7 sentences, with a direct correspon-dance between the sentences of the two texts.
Fig-ure 1 presents the variations used in the feedbackused in the experiment for group + (i.e.
positivelyslanted) and group 0 (i.e.
neutrally slanted).
Notethat the actual numbers are the same in both texts.3.3 Text validationA text validation study was conducted in which15 colleagues participated.
The participants wereasked to comment on 12 sentence pairs, the 7shown in Figure 1 and 5 additional filler pairs.
Thefollowing analysis reports on our findings on the 7sentence pairs shown in Figure 1 only.In order that we could test our intuitions aboutthe tactical nature of the linguistic alternations(discussed in section 3.1 above), the participantswere presented with a scenario where there weretwo different teachers, Mary Jones and Gordon2Though there are certainly some limits on the situationswhere a word like ?tall?
can be truthfully used to describe aheight148+1: Your Baumgartner score of 7.38 is excellent!01: Your Baumgartner score of 7.38 is ok.+2: You did distinctively better than the average score ob-tained by other people in your age group.02: You did somewhat better than the average score ob-tained by other people in your age group.+3: Especially your scores on Imagination/Creativity andon Clarity of Thought were great and considerablyhigher than average.03: Your scores on Imagination/Creativity and on Clarityof Thought were good and a little higher than average.+4: A factor analyses of your Baumgartner score results inan overall excellent performance.04: A factor analyses of your Baumgartner score results inan overall reasonable performance.+5: Although, compared to your peers, you have onlyslightly higher Spatial Intelligence (7.5 vs 7.0) and Vi-sual Intelligence (7.2 vs 6.8) scores, your Clarity ofThought Score is very much better (7.2 vs 6.3).05: Compared to your peers, you have a somewhat betterClarity of Thought Score (7.2 vs 6.3), but you have onlyslightly higher Spatial Intelligence (7.5 vs 7.0) and Vi-sual Intelligence (7.2 vs 6.8) scores.+6: On top of this you also outperformed most peoplein your age group with your exceptional scores forImagination and Creativity (7.9 vs 7.2) and Logical-Mathematical Intelligence (7.1 vs. 6.5).06: You did better than most people in your age group withyour scores for Imagination and Creativity (7.9 vs 7.2)and Logical-Mathematical Intelligence (7.1 vs. 6.5).+7: There is a lot of variation in your age group, but yourscore is significantly higher than average.07: Your score is higher than average, but there is a lot ofvariation in your age group.Figure 1: Linguistic variation used in the IQ test feedbackSmith, both completely honest but with very dif-ferent ideas about teaching (Mary believing thatany pupil can succeed, given encouragement,but Gordon believing that most pupils are lazyand have overinflated ideas about their abilities).Given a positively slanted sentence (e.g.
+7) fromMary and a corresponding more neutrally slantedone (e.g.
07) from Gordon, addressed to one ormore pupils, participants were asked to indicate:1.
?Is it possible that Mary and Gordon might actually be(honestly) giving different feedback to the same pupilon the same task??2.
?If the two pieces of feedback were given to the samepupil (for the same task) and the pupil?s parents foundout, do you think they would have grounds to make acomplaint that one of the teachers is lying?
?The hypothesis was that (for the 7 pairs ofsentences from Figure 1) in general participantswould answer ?yes?
to question 1 and ?no?
toquestion 2.
Indeed, for 6 pairs at least 14 out of the15 participants answered as we had predicted.
Forthe other pair (+4/04), 12 out of 15 agreed withboth predictions.
We see this as very strong evi-dence for our position (the participants gave dif-ferent answers for the filler pairs, and so were notjust producing these answers blindly).No alterations were made to the two feedbacktexts on the basis of the text validation results.4 Measuring EmotionsThere are two broad ways of measuring the emo-tions of human subjects ?
physiological methodsand self-reporting.
Physiological methods unfor-tunately tend to have the problems of complexsetup and calibration, which mean that it is hard totransport them between tasks or individuals.
In ad-dition, although emotional states are undoubtedlyconnected to physiological variables, it is not al-ways clear what is being measured by these meth-ods (cf.
(Lazarus et al, 1980); (Cacioppo et al,2000) ).Because of these problems, we have opted to in-vestigate self-reporting methods, as validated andused widely in psychological experiments.
Threewell-established methods that are used frequentlyin the field of psychology are the Russel AffectGrid (Russell et al, 1989), the Self AssessmentManikin (SAM) (Lang, 1980) and the Positive andNegative Affect Scale (PANAS) (Watson et al,1988).
In our previous study (van der Sluis andMellish, 2008), we had problems with participantsunderstanding how to use the Russel Affect Gridand SAM and so now we opted to use a version ofthe PANAS test.The PANAS test is a scale using affect termsthat describe positive and negative feelings andemotions.
Participants in the experiment read theterms and indicate to what extent they experi-ence(d) the emotions indicated by each of themusing a five point scale ranging from (1) veryslightly/not at all, (2) a little, (3) moderately, (4)quite a bit to (5) extremely.
A total score forpositive affect is calculated by simply adding thescores for the positive terms, and similarly for neg-ative affect.As before, we used a simplified version of thePANAS scale in order not to overburden the partic-ipants with questions and to avoid bored answer-ing.
In this test, which has been fully validated(Mackinnon et al, 1999), participants have to rateonly 10 instead of 20 terms: 5 for positive af-149fect (i.e.
alert, determined, enthusiastic, excited,inspired) and 5 for negative affect (i.e.
afraid,scared, nervous, upset, distressed).Our use of the simplified PANAS in this studydiffered from our previous study, however, by hav-ing participants respond to the PANAS questionsusing a slider, rather than a five point scale.
Thismeans that only two terms were put at the extremeends of the slider (i.e.
?very slightly/not at all?
and?extremely?
were presented but not ?a little?, ?mod-erately?
or ?quite a bit?).
The change to use a sliderwas because van der Sluis and Mellish (2008) ob-served partipants only using a small part of thepossible scale for answers, and within this the fivepoint scale might have lost useful information.Although our particular experiment focussed onpositive affect, we included the negative affectterms partly so that we could detect outliers inour participant set ?
people who were perhaps ex-tremely nervous about the test or sensitive abouttheir IQ.
In fact, we did not find any such outliers.5 Experiment to Measure EmotionalEffects of Positive Feedback5.1 Set Up of the StudyAs stated above, the texts that we presented toour participants were portrayed as giving feedbackon an IQ test that the participants had just taken.The IQ test was set up as a web experiment inwhich participants could linearly traverse throughthe various phases of the test.
An outline of theset up is given in Figure 2.
In the general intro-duction to the experiment, participants were toldthat the experiment was ?an assessment of a newkind of intelligence test which combines a numberof well-established methods that are used as indi-cators of human brain power?.
To make it moredifficult for the participant to keep track of howwell/poorly she performed over the course of thetest, it also said that the test consisted of open andmultiple choice questions that had different weightfactors in the calculation of the overall score andthat would assess various aspects of their intelli-gence.
Subsequently, the participant was askedto tick a consent form to participate in the study.Then a questionnaire followed in which the par-ticipant was asked about her age, gender and thequality of her English.
She was also asked if shehad any experience with IQ tests and how she ex-pected to score on this one.
These questions wereinterleaved with an emotion assessment test (re-duced PANAS) in which the participant was asked?how do you feel right now?
?.After filling out the questionnaire, the partici-pant could start the ?IQ test?
whenever she wasready.
The ?IQ test?
consisted of 30 questionswhich she had to answer one at a time.
The par-ticipant could not skip a question and also hadto indicate for each of the questions how confi-dent she was about her answer.
The questionsthat were used for the test were carefully collectedfrom the internet and included items from varioustests and games.
Different types of questions wereused: questions about logical truths, mathematicalquestions that required some calculations, ques-tions about words and letter sequences, questionsincluding pictures and questions about the partic-ipant?s personality.
They were ordered randomly(but with the same order for each participant).When the participant had finished the test, shewas asked to wait patiently while the system cal-culated the test scores.
When enough calculationtime had passed the participant was presented withthe test feedback (one of the two texts, regardlessof their actual performance).
This feedback firstexplained the test and its type of scoring:The Baumgartner test which you have just un-dertaken tests various kinds of intelligence, forinstance, your visual intelligence, your logical-mathematical intelligence and your spatial in-telligence.
These various aspects of your in-telligence contribute to an overall BaumgartnerScore.
The Baumgartner Score rates your intel-ligence on a 10-point scale with 10 as the high-est possible score.
Note that your BaumgartnerScore can change over time dependent on expe-rience and practice.
Below your test score is pre-sented in comparison with the average score inyour age group.The introduction to the test was followed by ei-ther the positively (+1..+7, Figure 1) or the rela-tively neutrally (01..07, Figure 1) phrased test re-sults.
After the participant had processed the feed-back, she was asked to fill out one more question-naire to assess her emotions (i.e.
?How do youfeel right now knowing your scores on the test?
).This time the simplified PANAS test was inter-leaved with questions about the participant?s re-sults, (e.g.
were they as expected and how did shevalue them), the test (e.g.
was it difficult, doableor easy?)
and space for comments on the test andthe experiment.
Finally the participant was de-briefed about the experiment and about the goalof the study.1501.
General introduction to the experiment;2.
Consent form;3.
Questionnaire on participant?s background and famil-iarity with IQ-test interleaved with a PANAS test to as-sess the participant?s current emotional state;4.
Message: ?Please press the next button at the bottomof this page whenever you are ready to start the intelli-gence test?;5.
IQ test questions;6.
Message: Please be patient while your answers are be-ing processed and your test score is computed.
Afterthe result page, you will be asked another set of ques-tions about the test, your performance and the way youfeel about it.
This information is very important forthis study, so please answer the questions as honestlyas possible.?;7.
Feedback + or 0;8.
Questionnaire: PANAS test to assess how the partic-ipants felt after reading the test feedback interleavedwith questions about the test, their expectations andspace for comments;9.
Debriefing which informed participants about thestudy?s purpose and stated that the IQ test was not realand that their test results did not contain any truth.Figure 2: Phases in the experiment set up5.2 Pilot ExperimentA pilot of the experiment was carried out by ask-ing a number of people to try the experiment viathe web interface.
The main outcomes of thisstudy, in which 11 colleagues participated, wasthat the experiment was too long.
Accordingly, thequestionnaires before and after the IQ test (phase3 and 8 in Figure 2) were shortened.
Also the IQtest itself was shortened from 40 to 30 questions.5.3 Main Experiment: participants andexperimental setting30 participants, all female university students,took the IQ test.
All participants except two werein age band 18-24.
The exceptions were in ageband 25-29 (group +) and 30-34 (group 0).
Theparticipants were randomly distributed over group+ and group 0 and (for ethical reasons) did the testone by one in a one-person experiment room whilethe experimenter was waiting outside the room.As soon as the participant indicated that she hadfinished the task (i.e.
stepped out of the exper-iment room), she was debriefed about the studyby the experimenter and was paid with a voucherworth 5 pounds.5.4 HypothesesSince the message of the feedback texts was rel-atively positive and there is no necessary correla-0-group +-groupNegative PANAS terms Before 1.60(.76) 1.58(.68)Negative PANAS terms After 1.57(.68) 1.31(.45)Positive PANAS terms Before 3.25(.78) 3.32(.55)Positive PANAS terms After 3.13(.58) 3.75(.55)Table 1: Means and Standard deviations (between brack-ets) for the negative and positive PANAS terms as indicatedbefore and after the IQ test undertaken by participants thatreceived neutral and participants that received positive feed-back on their performance.tion between positive and negative PANAS scores(Watson and Clark, 1999), we expected the maineffects of the texts to be on the average evaluationof the positive PANAS terms.
In order to cater forthe fact that individuals might differ in their initialpositive PANAS scores, we decided to look at thedifference of the scores (score after minus scorebefore).
Therefore the hypothesis for this studywas that participants who received the positivelyphrased feedback would show a larger change intheir positive emotions than the participants whoreceived the neutrally phrased feedback.5.5 ResultsTable 1 indicates that on average after they had re-ceived their test results, participants in the +-groupwere more positively tuned than participants in the0-group.
Participants in the +-group also rated thepositive emotion terms higher than they had donebefore they undertook the IQ test.
No such resultswere found for the 0-group.
In contrast, comparedto their responses before the IQ test, participants inthe 0-group rated the positive terms slightly lowerafter they had processed their neutrally phrasedfeedback.
With respect to the negative PANASterms, participants in the +-group report slightlyless negative emotions after they read their testscores, but none of the differences found in thenegative PANAS scores were significant.A 2 (feedback type) * 2 (before/after) * 2 (pos-itive/negative mean) repeated measures ANOVAwas carried out on the average PANAS scores.This showed no main effect of feedback type(+ vs 0) and no main effect of before/after onaverage PANAS scores.
However, there was ahighly significant interaction between feedbacktype and before/after, which indicates that thechange in PANAS mean before and after the textwas strongly dependent on feedback type3 (F(1,28) = 10.246, p < .003).
We interpret this to meanthat the (after minus before) value is significantly3An ANOVA test on the positive means only produces asimilar result.1510-group +-groupAlert Before 3.96(.80) 3.17(.99)Alert After 3.45(.76) 3.65(.75)Determined Before 3.49(1.02) 3.60(.50)Determined After 3.50(1.13) 3.74(.61)Enthusiastic Before 3.52(1.05 3.49(.72)Enthusiastic After 2.97(.81) 3.84(.66)Excited Before 2.74(.97) 3.28(.61)Excited After 2.64(.75) 3.69(.83)Inspired Before 2.56(1.21) 3.06(.77)Inspired After 3.06(1.05) 3.81(.78)Table 2: Means and Standard deviations (between brack-ets) for the positive PANAS terms as indicated after the IQtest undertaken by participants that received positive and par-ticipants that received neutral feedback on their performance.0-group +-groupERnot disclosed 1 0not so good 0 1ok 9 4well 4 10extremely well 1 0Table 3: Participant responses when questioned about theresults they expected (ER) .greater for the +-group.
A two-tailed, two sam-ple t-test verifies this (t = 3.2, p < 0.004).
We didsome post-hoc investigation in an attempt to un-derstand the main result more fully.
When look-ing at the positive PANAS scores in more detail(see Table 2), it turns out that only three of thefive positive PANAS terms included in the simpli-fied PANAS test render promising results.
Inter-actions were found for the terms ?alert?
(F(1, 28)= 10.291, p < .003) and ?enthusiastic?
(F(1, 28)= 5.651, p < .025).
No interactions were foundfor the terms ?determined?
and ?inspired?.
For ?in-spired?
however, we found a main effect of feed-back type : (F(1, 28) = 8.755, p < .006), which in-dicates that participants in the +-group could havebeen more inspired because of their test scoresthan participants in the 0-group.
Not all of theseresults would be significant if Bonferroni correc-tions were made.5.6 The Role of ExpectationsIt is possible that this result could have beencaused by other (systematic but unanticipated) dif-ferences between the two groups.
In particular,perhaps the result could be caused by a differ-ence in how well the two groups of participantsexpected to perform.
As it happens, participantswere asked: ?How do you expect to score on anintelligence test??
before they did the test.
Theanswers to this question are summarised in Ta-ble 3.
This data suggests that participants in the+-group initially had higher expectations.
It isdifficult to get a consensus from the psychologi-cal literature about how this might have affectedthe results.
On the one hand, some studies haveshown that positive expectations can have an ac-celerating effect on a person?s actual positive emo-tional experience (Wilson et al, 2003; Wilson andKlaaren, 1992).
Such results might suggest an al-ternative explanation of the fact that the +-groupshowed a greater change in positive emotions.
Onthe other hand, it might be argued that subjectswith lower expectations would be more surprised(since both texts presented good results) and sotheir emotions would have been influenced moresignificantly.
That is, if a subject already expectsto do well then one would not expect that find-ing that they actually did well would cause muchof a change in their emotions.
This would predictthat it should be the 0-group that shows the great-est emotion change.
Overall, it is hard to knowwhether the data about expectations should affectour confidence in the experiment result, though itwould be worthwhile controlling for initial expec-tations in further experiments of this kind.6 Discussion and Future Directions6.1 DiscussionCompared with the previous study of van der Sluisand Mellish (2008), we expected participants toindicate stronger emotional effects, because thetext participants were asked to read was about theirown capabilities instead of about something in theworld around them which they could think wouldnot affect them.
Indeed, this seems to have beenthe case.
In van der Sluis and Mellish (2008), allresponses used the lower half of the scale, whereaswith the slider our participants indicated values upto both extremes of the range available.
Unfortu-nately, the fact that one set of values is discrete andthe other continuous means that it is hard to carryout a simple statistical comparison.6.2 Future WorkIn the study described in the paper, a number ofdifferent techniques (e.g.
emphasis, vague adjec-tives and adverbs) were used to phrase the variouspropositions in the feedback.
In future work weaim to identify the relative importance of the indi-vidual techniques.1526.3 ConclusionThe fact that we have been able to show a signifi-cant difference in the emotions induced by the twotexts is very encouraging.
It suggests that thereis a possible methodology for directly evaluatingaffective NLG and that the tactical concerns withwhich much of NLG research is occupied are rel-evant to affective NLG.
A similar methodologycould perhaps now be used to determine the ef-fectiveness of specific NLG methods and mecha-nisms in terms of inducing emotions.
Although wehave now shown that NLG tactical decisions canaffect emotions, it remains to be seen what kind ofchanges in strategy, learning, motivation, etc., canbe induced by positive affect and thus how theseframing decisions would best be made by an NLGsystem.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the EPSRC platfrom grant ?Af-fecting people with natural language?
(EP/E011764/1) andalso in part by Science Foundation Ireland under a CSETgrant (NGL/CSET).
We would like to thank the people whocontributed to this study, most notably Judith Masthoff, Al-bert Gatt and Kees van Deemter and Nikiforos Karamanis.ReferencesR.
Brown and E. Pinel.
2003.
Stigma on my mind: Indi-vidual differences in the experience of stereotype threat.Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 39:626?633.J.
Cacioppo, G. Bernston, J. Larson, K. Poehlmann, andT.
Ito.
2000.
The psychophysiology of emotion.
InM.
Lewis and J. Haviland-Jones, editors, Handbook ofEmotions, pages 173?191.
New York: Guilford Press.M.
Cadinu, A. Maass, A. Rosabianca, and J. Kiesner.
2005.Why do women underperform under stereotype threat?Psychological Science, 16(7):572?578.D.
Graff.
2000.
Shifting sands: An interest-relative theory ofvagueness.
Philosophical Topics, 20:45?81.C.
Kennedy.
2007.
Vagueness and grammar: the semanticsof relative and absolute gradable adjectives.
Linguisticsand Philosophy, 30:1?45.P.
Lang.
1980.
Behavioral treatment and bio-behavioralassessment: Computer applications.
In J. Sidowske,J.
Johnson, and T. Williams, editors, Technology in MentalHealth Care Delivery Systems, pages 119?137.
Norwood,NJ: Ablex.R.
Lazarus, A. Kanner, and S. Folkman.
1980.
Emotions: Acognitive-phenomenological analysis.
In R. Plutchik andH.
Kellerman, editors, Emotion, theory, research, and ex-perience.
New York: Academic Press.I.
Levin, S. Schneider, and G. Gaeth.
1998.
All framesare not created equal: A typology and critical analysis offraming effects.
Organizational behaviour and human de-cision processes, 76(2):149?188.A.
Mackinnon, A. Jorm, H. Christensen, A. Korten, P. Ja-comb, and B. Rodgers.
1999.
A short form of the positiveand negative affect schedule: evaluation of factorial valid-ity and invariance across demographic variables in a com-munity sample.
Personality and Individual Differences,27(3):405?416.F.
Mairesse and M. Walker.
2008.
Trainable generation ofbig-five personality styles through data-driven parameterestimation.
In Proc.
of the 46th Annual Meeting of theACL.J.
Moore, K. Porayska-Pomsta, S. Varges, and C. Zinn.
2004.Generating tutorial feedback with affect.
In Proceedingsof the 7th International Florida Artificial Intelligence Re-search Symposium Conference (FLAIRS).L.
Moxey and A. Sanford.
2000.
Communicating quantities:A review of psycholinguistic evidence of how expressionsdetermine perspectives.
Applied Cognitive Psychology,14(3):237?255.L.
O?Hara and R. Sternberg.
2001.
It doesn?t hurt to ask:Effects of instructions to be creative, practical, or ana-lytical on essay-writing performance and their interactionwith students?
thinking styles.
Creativity Research Jour-nal, 13(2):197?210.F.
De Rosis and F. Grasso.
2000.
Affective natural lan-guage generation.
In A. Paiva, editor, Affective Interac-tions.
Springer LNAI 1814.F.
De Rosis, F. Grasso, and D. Berry.
1999.
Refining in-structional text generation after evaluation.
Artificial In-telligence in Medicine, 17(1):1?36.J.
Russell, A. Weiss, and G. Mendelsohn.
1989.
Affect grid:A single-item scale of pleasure and arousal.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology, 57:493?502.K.
Teigen and W. Brun.
2003.
Verbal probabilities: A ques-tion of frame.
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making,16:53?72.H.
Thompson.
1977.
Strategy and tactics: A model for lan-guage production.
In Proceedings of the Chicago Linguis-tics Society, Chicago.I.
van der Sluis and C. Mellish.
2008.
Using tactical NLG toinduce affective states: Empirical investigations.
In Pro-ceedings of the fifth international natural language gener-ation conference, pages 68?76.D.
Watson and L. Clark, 1999.
Manual for the Positive andNegative Affect Schedule - Expanded Form.
The Univer-sity of Iowa.D.
Watson, L. Clark, and A. Tellegen.
1988.
Developmentand validation of brief measures of positive and negativeaffect: The PANAS scales.
Journal of Personality andSocial Psychology, 54(1063-1070).T.
Wilson and K. Klaaren.
1992.
The role of affective expec-tations in affective experience.
In M. Clark, editor, Reviewof Personality and Social Psychology, volume 14: Emo-tion and Social Behaviour, pages 1?31.
Newbury Park,CA: Sage.T.
Wilson, D Gilbert, and D. Centerbar.
2003.
Making sense:The causes of emotional evanescence.
In I. Brocas andJ.
Carrillo, editors, The Psychology of Economic Deci-sions, volume 1: Rationality and Well Being, pages 209?233.
New York: Oxford University Press.153
