Proceedings of the Thirteenth Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL), page 2,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsModeling word learning as communicative inferenceMichael C. FrankDepartment of Brain and Cognitive SciencesMassachusetts Institute of TechnologyCambridge, MA 02139mcfrank@mit.eduAbstractHow do children learn their first words?
Idescribe a model that makes joint inferencesabout what speakers are trying to talk aboutand the meanings of the words they use.
Thismodel provides a principled framework for in-tegrating a wide variety of non-linguistic in-formation sources into the process of wordlearning.Talk Pre?cisHow do children learn their first words?
Muchwork in this field has focused on the social as-pects of word learning: that children make use ofspeakers?
intentions?as signaled by a wide rangeof non-linguistic cues such as their eye-gaze, whatthey are pointing at, or even what referents are newto them?to infer the meanings of words (Bloom,2002).
However, recent evidence has suggested thatadults and children are able to learn words simplyfrom the consistent co-occurrence of words and theirreferents, even across otherwise ambiguous situa-tions and without explicit social cues as to which ref-erent is being talked about (Yu & Smith 2007; Smith& Yu, 2008).In this talk I describe work aiming to combinethese two sets of evidence within a single probab-listic framework (Frank, Goodman, & Tenenbaum,2009).
We propose a model in which learners at-tempt to infer speakers?
moment-to-moment com-municative intentions jointly with the meanings ofthe words they have used to express these intentions.This process of joint inference allows our model toexplain away two major sources of noise in sim-pler statistical word learning proposals: the fact thatspeakers do not talk about every referent and that notall words that speakers utter are referential.We find that our model outperforms associativemodels in learning words accurately from naturalcorpus data and is able to fit children?s behavior ina number of experimental results from developmen-tal psychology.
In addition, we have used this basicframework to begin investigating how learners usethe rich variety of non-linguistic information signal-ing speakers?
intentions in service of word learning.As an example of this work, I will describe an ex-tension of the model to use discourse continuity as acue for speakers?
intentions.AcknowledgmentsThis work supported by a Jacob Javits Graduate Fel-lowship and NSF Doctoral Dissertation ResearchImprovement Grant #0746251.ReferencesPaul Bloom.
2002.
How Children Learn the Meanings ofWords.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Michael C. Frank, Noah D. Goodman, and Joshua B.Tenenbaum.
2009.
Using speakers?
referential inten-tions to model early cross-situational word learning.Psychological Science.Linda Smith and Chen Yu.
2008.
Infants rapidly learnword-referent mappings via cross-situational statistics.Cognition, 106, 1558-1568.Chen Yu and Linda Smith.
2007.
Rapid word learningunder uncertainty via cross-situational statistics.
Psy-chological Science, 18, 414-420.2
