Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Building and Using Comparable Corpora, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 2?10,Suntec, Singapore, 6 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPExtracting Lay Paraphrases of Specialized Expressionsfrom Monolingual Comparable Medical CorporaLouise Del?gerINSERM U872 Eq.20Paris, F-75006 Francelouise.deleger@spim.jussieu.frPierre ZweigenbaumCNRS, LIMSIOrsay, F-91403 Francepz@limsi.frAbstractWhereas multilingual comparable corporahave been used to identify translations ofwords or terms, monolingual corpora canhelp identify paraphrases.
The presentwork addresses paraphrases found be-tween two different discourse types: spe-cialized and lay texts.
We therefore builtcomparable corpora of specialized and laytexts in order to detect equivalent lay andspecialized expressions.
We identified twodevices used in such paraphrases: nomi-nalizations and neo-classical compounds.The results showed that the paraphraseshad a good precision and that nominaliza-tions were indeed relevant in the context ofstudying the differences between special-ized and lay language.
Neo-classical com-pounds were less conclusive.
This studyalso demonstrates that simple paraphraseacquisition methods can also work on textswith a rather small degree of similarity,once similar text segments are detected.1 IntroductionComparable corpora refer to collections of textssharing common characteristics.
Very often com-parable corpora consist of texts in two (or more)languages that address the same topic without be-ing translations of each other.
But this notionalso applies to monolingual texts.
In a mono-lingual context, comparable corpora can be textsfrom different sources (such as articles from var-ious newspapers) or from different genres (suchas specialized and lay texts) but dealing with thesame general topic.
Comparable corpora havebeen used to perform several Natural LanguageProcessing tasks, such as extraction of word trans-lations (Rapp, 1995; Chiao and Zweigenbaum,2002) in a multilingual context or acquisition ofparaphrases (Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Shinyamaand Sekine, 2003) in a monolingual context.
Inthis work1, we are interested in using comparablecorpora to extract paraphrases.Paraphrases are useful to various applications,including information retrieval (Ibrahim et al,2003), information extraction (Shinyama andSekine, 2003), document summarization (Barzi-lay, 2003) and text simplification (Elhadad and Su-taria, 2007).
Several methods have been designedto extract paraphrases, many of them dealing withcomparable text corpora.
A few paraphrase acqui-sition approaches used plain monolingual corporato detect paraphrases, such as (Jacquemin, 1999)who detects term variants or (Pasca and Dienes,2005) who extract paraphrases from random Webdocuments.
This type of corpus does not insurethe actual existence of paraphrases and a majorityof methods have relied on corpora with a strongersimilarity between the documents, thus likely toprovide a greater amount of paraphrases.
Someparaphrase approaches used monolingual paral-lel corpora, i.e.
different translations or versionsof the same texts.
For instance (Barzilay andMcKeown, 2001) detected paraphrases in a corpusof English translations of literary novels.
How-ever such corpora are not easily available and ap-proaches which rely instead on other types of cor-pora are actively investigated.Bilingual parallel corpora have been exploitedfor acquiring paraphrases in English (Bannard andCallison-Burch, 2005) and French (Max, 2008).Comparable corpora are another useful source ofparaphrases.
In this regard, only closely relatedcorpora have been used, especially and almost ex-clusively corpora of news sources reporting the1This paper is an extension of the work presentedin (Del?ger and Zweigenbaum, 2008a) and (Del?ger andZweigenbaum, 2008b), more specifically, a new corpus isadded, an additional type of paraphrase (based on neo-classical compounds) is extracted and the evaluation is morerelevant.2same events.
(Barzilay and Lee, 2003) gener-ated paraphrase sentences from news articles us-ing finite state automata.
(Shinyama and Sekine,2003) extracted paraphrases through the detectionof named entities anchors in a corpus of Japanesenews articles.
In the medical domain, (Elhadadand Sutaria, 2007) worked with a comparable, al-most parallel, corpus of medical scientific articlesand their lay versions to extract paraphrases be-tween specialized and lay languages.We aim at detecting paraphrases in medical cor-pora in the same line as (Elhadad and Sutaria,2007) but for French.
This type of paraphraseswould be a useful resource for text simplificationor to help authoring medical documents dedicatedto the general public.
However, in a French medi-cal context, it is difficult to obtain comparable cor-pora of documents with a high level of similarity,such as pairs of English scientific articles and theirtranslations in lay language, or news articles re-porting the same events used in general language(Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Shinyama and Sekine,2003).
Therefore, in addition to using this typeof comparable corpora, we also tried to rely oncorpora with less similarity but more easily avail-able documents: lay and specialized documentsfrom various sources dealing with the same overallmedical topic.We describe our experiment in building and ex-ploiting these corpora to find paraphrases betweenspecialized and lay language.
Issues at stake in-volve: (i) how to collect corpora as relevant aspossible (Section 2.1); (ii) how to identify pas-sages which potentially convey comparable in-formation (Section 2.2); and (iii) what sorts ofparaphrases can be collected between these twotypes of discourse, which is addressed in Sec-tion 2.3, through the identification of two kindsof paraphrases: nominalization paraphrases andparaphrases of neo-classical compounds.
An eval-uation of the method (Section 2.4) is conductedand results are presented (Section 3) and discussed(Section 4).2 Material and Methods2.1 Building comparable corpora of lay andspecialized textsToday, a popular way of acquiring a corpus is col-lecting it from the Web (Kilgarriff and Grefen-stette, 2003), as it provides easy access to an un-limited amount of documents.
Here we focuson monolingual comparable corpora of special-ized and lay medical French documents, with theobjective of identifying correspondences betweenthe two varieties of languages in these documents.We collected three corpora from the Web dealingwith the following three topics: nicotine addiction,diabetes and cancer.When dealing with a Web corpus several is-sues arise.
The first one is the relevance ofthe documents retrieved to the domain targetedand is highly dependant on the method used togather the documents.
Possible methods includequerying a general-purpose search engine (suchas Google) with selected key words, querying adomain-specific search engine (in domains wherethey exist) indexing potentially more relevant andtrustworthy documents, or directly downloadingdocuments from known relevant websites.
An-other important issue specific to our type of cor-pus is the relevance to the genre targeted, i.e.
layvs.
specialized.
Hence the need to classify eachcollected document as belonging to one genre orthe other.
This can be done by automatic cate-gorisation of texts or by direct knowledge of thesources of documents.
In order to obtain a corpusas relevant as possible to the domain and to thegenres, we used direct knowledge and restrictedsearch for selecting the documents.
In the case ofthe cancer topic, we had knowledge of a websitecontaining comparable lay and specialized docu-ments: the Standards, Options: Recommandationswebsite2 which gives access to guidelines on can-cer for the medical specialists on the one hand andguides for the general public on the same topics onthe other hand.
This case was immediate: we onlyhad to download the documents from the website.This corpus is therefore constituted of quite sim-ilar documents (professional guidelines and theirlay versions).
The other two corpora (on nico-tine addiction and diabetes), however, were builtfrom heterogeneous sources through a restrictedsearch and are less similar.
We first queried twohealth search engines (the health Web portals CIS-MeF3 and HON4) with key words.
Both allowthe user to search for documents targeted to apopulation (e.g., patient-oriented documents).
Wealso queried known relevant websites for docu-ments dealing with our chosen topics.
Those were2http://www.sor-cancer.fr/3http://www.cismef.org/4http://www.hon.ch/3French governmental websites, including that ofthe HAS5 which issues guidelines for health pro-fessionals, and that of the INPES6 which provideseducational material for the general public; as wellas health websites dedicated to the general pub-lic, including Doctissimo7, Tabac Info Service8,Stoptabac9 and Diab?te Qu?bec10.The corpus dealing with the topic of diabetesserved as our development corpus for the first typeof paraphrases we extracted, the other two corporawere used as test corpora.Once collected, a corpus needs to be cleanedand converted into an appropriate format to allowfurther processing, i.e.
extracting the textual con-tent of the documents.
HTML documents typi-cally contain irrelevant information such as nav-igation bars, footers and advertisements?referredto as ?boilerplate?
?which can generate noise.Boilerplate removal methods can rely on HTMLstructure, visual features (placement and size ofblocks) and plain text features.
We used HTMLstructure (such as meta-information and density ofHTML tags) and plain text (such as spotting phoneand fax numbers and e-mails, as often appear atthe end of documents) to get rid of boilerplate.2.2 Aligning similar text segmentsWe hypothesize that paraphrases will be foundmore reliably in text passages taken from bothsides of our comparable corpora which addresssimilar topics.
So, as a first step, we tried to re-late such passages.
We proceeded in three steps:1. as multiple topics are usually addressed ina single text, we performed topic segmenta-tion on each text using the TextTiling (Hearst,1997) segmentation tool.
A segment mayconsist of one or several paragraphs;2. we then tried to identify pairs of text seg-ments addressing similar topics and likely tocontain paraphrases.
For this we used a com-mon, vector-based measure of text similarity:the cosine similarity measure which we com-puted for each pair of topic segments in thecross-product of both corpus sides (each seg-ment was represented as a bag of words);5http://www.has-sante.fr/6http://www.inpes.sante.fr/7http://www.doctissimo.fr/8http://www.tabac-info-service.fr/9http://www.stop-tabac.ch/10http://www.diabete.qc.ca/3.
we selected the best text segment pairs, thatis the pairs with a similarity score equal orsuperior to 0.33, a threshold we determinedbased on the results of a preliminary study(Del?ger and Zweigenbaum, 2008a).2.3 Extracting paraphrasesWe are looking for paraphrases between two vari-eties of language (specialized and lay), as opposedto any kind of possible paraphrases.
We there-fore endeavoured to determine what kind of para-phrases may be relevant in this regard.
A com-mon hypothesis (Fang, 2005) is that specializedlanguage uses more nominal constructions wherelay language uses more verbs instead.
We test thishypothesis and build on it to detect specialized-layparaphrases around noun-to-verb mappings (a firstversion of this work was published in (Del?ger andZweigenbaum, 2008b)).
A second hypothesis isthat medical language contains a fair proportion ofwords from Latin and Greek origins, which are re-ferred to as neo-classical compounds.
The mean-ing of these words may be quite obscure to non-experts readers.
So one would expect to find lessof these words in lay texts and instead some sortof paraphrases in common language.
We thereforetried to detect these paraphrases as a second typeof specialized vs. lay correspondences.2.3.1 Paraphrases of nominalizationsA first type of paraphrases we tried to extractwas paraphrases between nominal constructionsin the specialized side (such as treatment of thedisease) and verbal constructions in the lay side(such as the disease is treated).
This type of para-phrases involves nominalizations of verbal phrasesand is built around the relation between a dever-bal noun (e.g.
treatment) and its base verb (e.g.treat).
Therefore, we relied on a lexicon of Frenchdeverbal nouns paired with corresponding verbs(Hathout et al, 2002) to detect such pairs in thecorpus segments.
These noun-verb pairs served asanchors for the detection of paraphrases.
In orderto design paraphrasing patterns we extracted allpairs of deverbal noun and verb with their contextsfrom the development corpus.
The study of suchpairs with their contexts allowed us to establish aset of lexico-syntactic paraphrasing patterns11.
Anexample of such patterns can be seen in Table 1.11Texts were first tagged with Treetagger (http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/corplex/TreeTagger/).4Specialized LayN1 PREP (DET) N2 V1 (DET) N2N1 PREP (DET) N2A3 V1(DET) N2A3N1 A2 V1(DET) N2Table 1: Example paraphrasing patterns (a sharedindex indicates equality or synonymy.
N=noun,V=verb, A=adjective, PREP=preposition,DET=determiner, 1 in index = pair of dever-bal noun and verb)The general method was to look for correspond-ing content words (mainly noun and adjective) inthe contexts.
We defined corresponding words aseither equal or synonymous (we used lexicons ofsynonyms as resources12).
Equals may have ei-ther the same part-of-speech, or different parts-of-speech, in which case stemming13 is performed totake care of derivational variation (e.g., medicineand medical).
We then applied the patterns to bothdevelopment and test corpora.The patterns thus designed are close to thetransformation rules of (Jacquemin, 1999) whodetects morpho-syntactico-semantic variants ofterms in plain monolingual corpora.
One dif-ference is that our patterns are built around onespecific type of morphological variation (noun toverb variation) that seemed relevant in the contextof the specialized/lay opposition, as opposed toany possible variation.
We also identify the para-phrases by comparing the two sides of a compara-ble corpus while (Jacquemin, 1999) starts from agiven list of terms and searches for their variantsin a plain monolingual corpus.
Finally, we do notapply our method on terms specifically but on anyexpression corresponding to the patterns.2.3.2 Paraphrases of neo-classicalcompoundsWe then extracted paraphrases of neo-classicalcompounds as a second type of paraphrases thatseemed relevant to the opposition between layand specialized languages.
This means that welooked for neo-classical compounds on one sideof the corpora and equivalents in modern lan-guage on the other side.
To do this we reliedon the morphosemantic parser D?riF (Namer and12The lexicons used came from the Masson and Robert dic-tionaries.13Stemming was performed using the Lingua::Stemperl package (http://search.cpan.org/~snowhare/Lingua-Stem-0.83) which is similar to the Snowballstemmers (http://snowball.tartarus.org)Zweigenbaum, 2004).
D?riF analyzes morpholog-ically complex words and outputs a decomposi-tion of those words into their components and adefinition-like gloss of the words according to themeaning of the components in modern languagewhen they are from Greek or Latin origins.
Forinstance the French word gastrite (gastritis) is de-composed into gastr+ite and its gloss is inflamma-tion de l?estomac (inflammation of stomach).We first ran the analyzer on the specializedside of the corpora to detect neo-classical com-pounds.
Then we searched for paraphrases ofthose compounds based on the output of D?riF,that is we looked for the modern-language equiva-lents of the word components (in the case of gas-tritis this means searching for inflammation andstomach) close to each other within a syntacticphrase (we empirically set a threshold of 4 wordsas the maximum distance between the modern-language translations of the components).
A pat-tern used to search those paraphrases is for in-stance:C ?
((DET)?
N PREP)?
(DET)?
C1 W0?4 C2where C is a neo-classical compounds in a spe-cialized text segment, C1 and C2 are the modern-language components of C, N is a noun, PREP apreposition, DET a determiner and W an arbitraryword.2.4 EvaluationWe first evaluated the quality of the extracted para-phrases by measuring their precision, that is, thepercentage of correct results over the entire re-sults.
We computed precision for each type ofparaphrases.We then estimated recall for the first typeof paraphrases (nominalization paraphrases): thepercentage of correct extracted paraphrases overthe total number of paraphrases that should havebeen extracted.
We used as gold standard a ran-dom sample of 10 segment pairs from which wemanually extracted paraphrases.Finally, since we aim at detecting paraphrasesbetween lay and specialized languages, we alsolooked at the relevance of the two types we choseto extract.
That is, we evaluated the coherence ofthe results with our two initial hypotheses, whichare expected to apply when both a specialized textsegment and a lay text segment convey similarinformation: (1) nominalizations are more oftenused in specialized texts while lay texts tend to5Specialized Lay(a) Ns ...the benefits of smoking cessation... Nl ...withdrawal symptoms of smoking cessation...(b) Ns ...regular use of tobacco concerned... Nl ...tobacco use is the first cause...(c) Ns ...which goes with smoking cessation... Vl ...who wants to stop smoking...Table 2: Sample cases used to compute the conditional probability for nominalizations; (a) and (b)represent cases where a paraphrase was expected but did not occur and (c) a case where a paraphrase wasindeed used.
N = nominalization; V = verbal form.Specialized Lay(a) Cs ...glycemia is lower... Cl ...a drop of glycemia...(b) Cs ...the starting point of thrombosis... Cl ...the risk of thrombosis...(c) Cs ...especially cardiopathies and... Ml ...25% of heart diseases...Table 3: Sample cases used to compute the conditional probability for neo-classical compounds; (a) and(b) represent cases where a paraphrase was expected but did not occur and (c) a case where a paraphrasewas indeed used.
C = compound; M = modern.replace them with verbs; (2) specialized texts usemore neoclassical compounds while lay texts givea paraphrase in modern language.To evaluate (1) we measured the conditionalprobability P (Vl|Ns) that a nominalization pat-tern Ns in a specialized segment be replaced bya matching verbal pattern Vl in a correspondinglay segment.
These patterns are the paraphras-ing patterns defined in Section 2.3.1 and exempli-fied in Table 1.
Table 2 gives examples of casestaken into account when computing this probabil-ity, i.e.
cases where both text segments convey thesame information, as a nominalization in the spe-cialized side and as a nominalization or a verbalparaphrase in the lay side.
Formally, the proba-bility can be estimated by |ParNs?Vl ||ExpParNs?Vl | , where|ParNs?Vl | is the number of correct extractedparaphrases involving a nominalization in a spe-cialized segment and a verbal construction in thecorresponding lay segment (case (c) of Table 2),and |ExpParNs?Vl | the expected number of para-phrases.
The expected number of paraphrases cor-responds to the total number of instances wherea specialized text segment contains a nominal-ization and the corresponding lay segment con-veys the same information, expressed either as anominalization or as a paraphrasing verbal con-struction (cases (a), (b) and (c) of Table 2).
Itis therefore computed as the sum of |ParNs?Vl |and |ParNs?Nl |, the latter referring to the numberof occurrences where both the specialized and laysegments match the same nominalization pattern,i.e., instances where a paraphrase was expectedbut did not occur (cases (a) and (b) of Table 2).
Forinstance use of tobacco on one side and tobaccouse on the other side, as in (b), is a case whereone would have expected a paraphrase such as to-bacco is used.
Note that matching allows the sameflexibility as described in Section 2.3.1 in termsof synonyms and morphological variants.
To testwhether this tendency of using verbal construc-tions instead of nominalizations is indeed strongerin lay texts we also measured the reverse, i.e.
theconditional probability P (Vs|Nl), given a nomi-nalization pattern Nl in a lay segment, that it bereplaced with a matching verbal pattern Vs in thecorresponding specialized segment, computed as|ParNl?Vs ||ExpParNl?Vs |.
If our hypothesis is verified, thisreverse probability should be lower then the directprobability.In the same way, to evaluate (2) we measuredthe conditional probability P (Ml|Cs) that a neo-classical compound Cs in a specialized segmentbe replaced by a modern-language equivalent Mlin a corresponding lay segment.
Table 3 gives ex-amples of cases taken into account when comput-ing this probability, that is cases where both textsegments convey the same information, as a neo-classical compound in the specialized side and asa neo-classical compound or a modern-languageparaphrase in the lay side.
Formally, it can beestimated by |ParCs?Ml ||ExpParCs?Ml | , where |ParCs?Ml |is the number of correct extracted paraphrases in-volving a neo-classical compound in a specialized6Diabetes Nicotine addiction CancerS L S L S Ldocs 135 600 62 620 22 16words 580,712 461,066 595,733 603,257 641,584 228,742segment pairs 183 547 438Table 4: Sizes of the corpora (Number of documents, words and segment pairs; S=specialized, L=lay)Diabetes Nicotine add.
Cancertotalparaph.42 79 93correctparaph.30 62 62precision 71.4% 78.5% 75.8%Table 5: Precision for nominalization paraphrases(at the type level, not token level)segment and a modern-language equivalent in thecorresponding lay segment (case (c) of Table 3), and |ExpParCs?Ml | is the expected numberof paraphrases (case (a), (b) and (c) of Table 3).The expected number of paraphrases is the sum of|ParCs?Ml | and |ParCs?Cl |, the latter referringto the number of occurrences where both the spe-cialized and lay segments contains the same neo-classical compound (instances where a paraphrasewas expected but did not occur, for instance cases(a) and (b) of Table 3).
We then measured the re-verse, i.e.
the conditional probability P (Ms|Cl),given a neo-classical compound Cl in a lay seg-ment, that it be replaced with a modern-languageequivalent Ms in the corresponding specializedsegment, computed as |ParCl?Ms ||ExpParCl?Ms | .3 ResultsTable 4 gives size figures for each side (lay andspecialized) of the three corpora in terms of docu-ments, words and segment pairs.Evaluation of the quality of the extracted para-phrases shows that precision is rather good forboth type of paraphrases (see Tables 5 and 6), al-though the figures cannot be considered signica-tive for paraphrases of compounds extracted in thetobacco and cancer corpora given the small num-ber of paraphrases (only 3 paraphrases in bothcases).Examples of nominalization paraphrases andparaphrases of neo-classical compounds are givenin Tables 7 and 8.
The last line of Table 7 showsDiabetes Nicotine add.
Cancertotalparaph.39 3 3correctparaph.24 3 3precision 61.5% 100% 100%Table 6: Precision for paraphrases of neo-classicalcompounds (at the type level, not token level)an example of incorrect paraphrase, which is dueto the synonymy link established between Frenchwords charge and poids which is not valid inthat particular context.
The last line of Table 8also gives an incorrect example, which is causedby the imprecision of the modern-language para-phrase which is only partially equivalent to theneo-classical compound.Specialized Layconsommationr?guli?reconsommer de fa?onr?guli?reregular use to use in a regularfashiong?ne ?
la lecture emp?che de lirereading difficulty prevents from reading?volution de l?affection la maladie ?volueevolution of theconditionthe disease is evolving*prise en charge prendre du poidsthe taking care of to take on weightTable 7: Examples of extracted nominalizationparaphrases (* indicates an incorrect example)With regard to the quantitative evaluation of thenominalization paraphrases, we measured a 30%recall on our sample of segment pairs, meaningthat out of the 10 manually extracted paraphrasesonly 3 were automatically detected by our method.Cases of non-detected paraphrases were due to therestrained scope of the paraphrasing patterns, aswell as to the presence of synonyms not contained7Specialized Layleucospermie Augmentation du nombre deglobules blancs dans le spermeleucospermia Increase in the number of whitecells in the spermglyc?mie la quantit?
de sucre dans le sangglycemia amount of sugar in the bloodprostatectomie l?ablation de la prostateprostatectomy ablation of the prostate*hyperglyc?mie le taux de sucre dans le sanghyperglycemia proportion of sugar in the bloodTable 8: Examples of extracted paraphrases ofneo-classical compounds (* indicates an incorrectexample)in our lists.Table 9 displays results for the investigation onthe coherence of our first initial hypothesis thatspecialized texts use nominalizations where laytexts use verbal constructions.
The conditionalprobability that a nominalization be replaced witha verbal construction is higher for nominalizationsin specialized texts than for the reverse direction,which means that nominalizations in specializedtexts are indeed more likely to be replaced byverbal constructions in lay texts than nominaliza-tions in lay texts by verbal constructions in spe-cialized texts.
Results for the second hypothe-sis (neo-classical compounds in specialized textstend to be replaced by modern-language equiva-lents in lay texts) are given in Table 10.
As for thefirst hypothesis, the conditional probability for theneo-classical compounds in the specialized texts ishigher, which seems to be coherent with the ini-tial hypothesis.
However, given the very smallnumber of paraphrases, we cannot draw a signi-ficative conclusion as regards this second type ofparaphrases.4 DiscussionIn this work we built comparable corpora of spe-cialized and lay texts on which we implementedsimple paraphrase acquisition methods to extractcertain types of paraphrases that seemed rele-vant in the context of specialized and lay lan-guage: paraphrases based on nominalization vs.verbal constructions and paraphrases based onneo-classical compounds vs. modern-language ex-pressions.
The precision measured on the set ofdetected paraphrases is rather good, which indi-cates good quality of the paraphrases (hence of theparaphrasing patterns and extracted segments).An originality of this work lies in the factthat, in contrast to approaches working with moreclosely related comparable corpora (Barzilay andLee, 2003; Shinyama and Sekine, 2003; Elhadadand Sutaria, 2007), we also gathered comparablecorpora of documents which, although addressingthe same general topics (nicotine addiction, dia-betes), were a priori rather different since comingfrom various sources and targeted to different pop-ulations.
We showed that simple paraphrase ac-quisition methods could also work on documentswith a lesser degree of similarity, once similar seg-ments were detected.
Indeed the precision of theextracted paraphrases is within the same range forthe three corpora we built, despite the fact that onecorpus (the cancer corpus) was composed of moresimilar documents than the other two.We extracted a type of paraphrases much lessexploited in existing work, with the exception of(Elhadad and Sutaria, 2007), that is paraphrasesbetween specialized and lay language.
This meantthat we had to take into account what kind ofparaphrases might be relevant, therefore the meth-ods used to extract them were more constrainedand supervised than approaches aiming at detect-ing any type of paraphrases.
We based a part ofour work on the hypothesis that among relevanttypes were paraphrases involving nominalizationsof verbal contructions, meaning that lay texts tendto use verb phrases where specialized texts usedeverbal noun contructions.
Our results seem tosupport this hypothesis.
Such paraphrases there-fore seem to be interesting advice to give to au-thors of lay texts.
Future work includes testingour method on English and comparing the resultsfor the two languages.
We would expect them tobe fairly similar since the tendency to use nominalconstructions in scientific literature has also beenobserved for English (Fang, 2005).
The secondpart of our work exploited the hypothesis that laytexts use modern-language expressions where spe-cialized texts use neo-classical compound words.In this case, the paraphrases were too few to en-able us to draw a significative conclusion.
Testingthis method on different and larger corpora mightgive more insight into the relevance of extractingthis type of paraphrases.
As it is, this work is stillexperimental and needs to be further investigated.8Diabetes Nicotine addiction CancerS?L L?S S?L L?S S?L L?S# paraphrases 44 37 140 76 73 57(|ParNs?Vl | or |ParNl?Vs |)# expected paraphrases 712 695 1675 1626 770 772(|ExpParNs?Vl | or |ExpParNl?Vs |)Conditional Probability 0.062 0.053 0.084 0.047 0.095 0.074(P (Vl|Ns) or P (Vs|Nl))Table 9: Conditional probability for nominalization paraphrases in both directions, specialized-lay(S?L) and lay-specialized (L?S)Diabetes Nicotine addiction CancerS?L L?S S?L L?S S?L L?S# paraphrases 53 40 18 0 3 0(|ParCs?Ml | or |ParCl?Ms |)# expected paraphrases 686 675 196 178 1482 1479(|ExpParCs?Ml | or |ExpParCl?Ms |)Conditional Probability 0.074 0.059 0.092 0 0.002 0(P (Ml|Cs) or P (Ms|Cl))Table 10: Conditional probability for paraphrases of neo-classical compounds in both directionsIts major drawback is the low number of para-phrases, in particular for the paraphrases of neo-classical compounds which brought inconclusiveresults.
In order to gain insight on the low quan-tity of paraphrases of neo-classical compounds,we manually looked at sample text segments fromthe nicotine addiction and cancer corpora (thetwo corpora where very few paraphrases were ex-tracted) and could not find any paraphrase of neo-classical compounds.
This would seem to indicatethat the low quantity of this type of paraphrasesis due to the characteristics of the corpora ratherthan to defects of our extraction technique.
Asfor the nominalization paraphrase, even though themethod brought more paraphrases and gave en-couraging results, their quantity is still quite small.The recall computed on a sample of segment pairsis low.
This is mainly due to the fact that we set uprather rectricted paraphrasing patterns.
This wasdone to ensure a high precision but caused the re-call to fall.
A future step would be to improve re-call by modifying some aspects of the paraphras-ing patterns while trying to keep a good precision.Regardless of recall, the number of nominaliza-tion paraphrases in itself is also small.
This canbe due to the fact that we restrict ourselves to onespecific type of paraphrases, but also to the factsthat we first align and select similar text segments,that the coverage of our corpora might not be suffi-cient, and that we work on comparable corpora oflesser similarity than other methods.
Future workto increase the number of paraphrases involves us-ing clusters of text segments instead of pairs, in-creasing the corpus sizes and developing methodsto detect other types of paraphrases besides thetwo kinds investigated here.5 ConclusionWe presented a method based on comparable med-ical corpora to extract paraphrases between spe-cialized and lay languages.
We identified twokinds of paraphrases, nominalization paraphrasesand paraphrases of neo-classical compounds, thefirst type seeming to indeed reflect some of thesystematic differences between specialized andlay texts while the second type brought too fewresults to draw a signicative conclusion.ReferencesColin Bannard and Chris Callison-Burch.
2005.
Para-phrasing with bilingual parallel corpora.
In Pro-ceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting on Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 597?604.Regina Barzilay and Lillian Lee.
2003.
Learn-ing to paraphrase: An unsupervised approach us-9ing multiple-sequence alignment.
In HLT-NAACL,pages 16?23, Edmonton, Canada.Regina Barzilay and Kathleen McKeown.
2001.
Ex-tracting paraphrases from a parallel corpus.
InACL/EACL, pages 50?57.Regina Barzilay.
2003.
Information Fusion for Mul-tidocument Summarization: Paraphrasing and Gen-eration.
Ph.D. thesis, Columbia University.Yun-Chuang Chiao and Pierre Zweigenbaum.
2002.Looking for French-English translations in compa-rable medical corpora.
In Proc AMIA Symp, pages150?4.Louise Del?ger and Pierre Zweigenbaum.
2008a.Aligning lay and specialized passages in compara-ble medical corpora.
In Stud Health Technol Inform,volume 136, pages 89?94.Louise Del?ger and Pierre Zweigenbaum.
2008b.Paraphrase acquisition from comparable medicalcorpora of specialized and lay texts.
In Proceedingsof the AMIA Annual Fall Symposium, pages 146?150, Washington, DC.Noemie Elhadad and Komal Sutaria.
2007.
Min-ing a lexicon of technical terms and lay equivalents.In ACL BioNLP Workshop, pages 49?56, Prague,Czech Republic.Zhihui Fang.
2005.
Scientific literacy: A systemicfunctional linguistics perspective.
Science Educa-tion, 89(2):335?347.Nabil Hathout, Fiammetta Namer, and Georgette Dal.2002.
An Experimental Constructional Database:The MorTAL Project.
In Many Morphologies, pages178?209.Marti A. Hearst.
1997.
Texttiling: Segmenting textinto multi-paragraph subtopic passages.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 23(1):33?64.Ali Ibrahim, Boris Katz, and Jimmy Lin.
2003.
Ex-tracting structural paraphrases from aligned mono-lingual corpora.
In Proceedings of the second inter-national workshop on Paraphrasing, pages 57?64,Sapporo, Japan.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Christian Jacquemin.
1999.
Syntagmatic and paradig-matic representations of term variation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 37th annual meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics on Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 341?348, College Park,Maryland.Adam Kilgarriff and Gregory Grefenstette.
2003.
In-troduction to the special issue on the web as corpus.Computational Linguistics, 29(3):333?47.Aur?lien Max.
2008.
Local rephrasing suggestions forsupporting the work of writers.
In Proceedings ofGoTAL, Gothenburg, Sweden.Fiammetta Namer and Pierre Zweigenbaum.
2004.Acquiring meaning for French medical terminology:contribution of morphosemantics.
In Marius Fi-eschi, Enrico Coiera, and Yu-Chuan Jack Li, editors,MEDINFO, pages 535?539, San Francisco.Marius Pasca and Peter Dienes.
2005.
Aligning nee-dles in a haystack: Paraphrase acquisition across theweb.
In Proceedings of IJCNLP, pages 119?130.Reinhard Rapp.
1995.
Identifying word translationsin non-parallel texts.
In Proceedings of the 33rd an-nual meeting on Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 320?322.Yusuke Shinyama and Satoshi Sekine.
2003.
Para-phrase acquisition for information extraction.
InProceedings of the second international workshopon Paraphrasing (IWP), pages 65?71, Sapporo,Japan.10
