Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 106?107,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsIncorporating GENETAG-style annotation to GENIA corpusTomoko Ohta?
and Jin-Dong Kim?
and Sampo Pyysalo?
and Yue Wang?
and Jun?ichi Tsujii???
?Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan?School of Computer Science, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK?National Centre for Text Mining, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK{okap,jdkim,smp,wangyue,tsujii}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp1 IntroductionProteins and genes are the most important entities inmolecular biology, and their automated recognitionin text is the most widely studied task in biomed-ical information extraction (IE).
Several corporacontaining annotation for these entities have beenintroduced, GENIA (Kim et al, 2003; Kim et al,2008) and GENETAG (Tanabe et al, 2005) beingthe most prominent and widely applied.
While bothaim to address protein/gene annotation, their an-notation principles differ notably.
One key differ-ence is that GENETAG annotates the conceptual en-tity, gene, which is often associated with a function,while GENIA concentrates on the physical forms ofgene, i.e.
protein, DNA and RNA.
The differencehas caused serious problems relating to the compat-ibility and comparability of the annotations.
In thiswork, we present an extension of GENIA annotationwhich integrates GENETAG-style gene annotation.The new version of the GENIA corpus is the first tobring together these two types of entity annotation.2 GGP AnnotationGene is the basic unit of heredity, which is encodedin the coding region of DNA.
Its physical manifes-tations as RNA and Protein are often called its prod-ucts.
In our view of these four entity types, gene istaken as an abstract entity whereas protein, DNA andRNA are physical entities.
While the three physicalentity types are disjoint, the abstract concept, gene,is defined from a different perspective and is realizedin, not disjoint from, the physical entity types.The latest public version of GENIA corpus (here-after ?old corpus?)
contains annotations for gene-Protein DNA RNA GGPOld Annotation 21,489 8,653 876 N/ANew Annotation 15,452 7,872 863 12,272Table 1: Statistics on annotation for gene-related entitiesrelated entities, but they are classified into onlyphysical entity types: Protein, DNA and RNA.
Thecorpus revisions described in this work are two-fold.First, annotation for the abstract entity, gene, wereadded (Table 1, GGP).
To emphasize the character-istics of the new entity type, which does not dis-tinguish a gene and its products, we call it GGP(gene or gene product).
Second, the addition of GGPannotation triggered large-scale removal of Protein,DNA and RNA annotation instances for cases wherethe physical form of the gene was not referred to(Due to space limitations, we omit RNA from nowon).
The time cost involved with this revision wasapproximately 500 person-hours.3 Quality AssessmentTo measure the effect of revision, we performedNER experiments with old and new annotation (Ta-bles 2 and 3).
We split the corpus into disjoint 90%and 10% parts for use in training and test, respec-tively.
We used the BANNER (Leaman and Gonza-lez, 2008) NE tagger and created a separate single-class NER problem for each entity type.In the old annotation, consistency is moderatefor protein (77.70%), while DNA is problematic(58.03%).
The new GGP annotation has beenachieved in a fairly consistent way (81.44%).
How-ever, the removal of annotation for entities previ-ously marked as protein or DNA had opposite effectson the two: better performance for DNA (64.06%),106Precision Recall F-scoreProtein 80.78 74.84 77.70DNA 64.90 52.48 58.03Table 2: NER performance before GGP annotationPrecision Recall F-scoreProtein 71.20 56.61 63.08DNA 69.59 59.35 64.06GGP 86.86 76.65 81.44Protein+ 83.22 78.20 80.63Table 3: NER performance after GGP annotationPhosphorylation Gene expressionGGP in protein 70% GGP abstract 34%Protein 25% Protein 24%GGP abstract 3% GGP in Protein 17%Peptide 1% GGP in DNA 9%Table 4: Distribution of theme entity types in GENIAimplying annotation consistency improved with theremovals, but worse for Protein (63.08%).We find the primary explanation for this effect inthe statistics in Table 1: in the revision, a large num-ber of protein annotations (6,037) but only a smallnumber of DNA annotations (780) were replacedwith GGP.
To distinguish such GGPs from those em-bedded in Protein or DNA annotations, we call them?abstract?
GGPs, as they appear in text without in-formation on their physical form.
Nevertheless, inthe old annotation, they had to be annotated as eitherprotein or DNA, which might have caused inconsis-tent annotation.
However, the statistics show a clearpreference for choosing Protein over DNA.
The rad-ical drop of performance in protein recognition canthen be explained in part as a result of removing thissystematic preference.Aside from the discussion on whether the pref-erence is general or specific, we interpret the pref-erence as a need for ?potential?
proteins to be re-trieved together with ?real?
proteins, which was an-swered by the old protein annotation.
To reproducethis class in the new annotation, we added abstractGGPs to the Protein annotation and performed anNER experiment.
The result (Table 3, Protein+)shows a clear improvement over the comparable re-sult for the old protein annotation.In conclusion, we argue, the revision of the GE-NIA annotation, in addition to introducing a new en-tity class, has led to a significant improvement ofoverall consistency.4 DiscussionAlthough there are already corpora such as GENE-TAG with annotation similar to GGPs, we expectthis newly introduced class of annotation to supportexisting annotations of GENIA, such as event andco-reference annotation, opening up new possibili-ties for application.
The quality of entity annota-tion should be closely related to that of other seman-tic annotation, e.g.
events.
For example, the eventtype Phosphorylation is about a change on physi-cal entities, e.g.
proteins and peptides, and as such,it is expected that themes of these events would bephysical entities.
On the other hand, the event typeGene expression is about the manifestation of an ab-stract entity (gene) as a physical entity (protein) andwould thus be expected to involve both abstract andphysical entities.
Statistics from GENIA (Table 4)show that the theme selection made in event anno-tation well reflects these characteristics of the twoevent types.
The observation suggests that there is agood likelihood that improvement of the entity an-notation can be further transferred to other semanticannotation, which is open for future work.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by Grant-in-Aidfor Specially Promoted Research (MEXT, Japan)and Genome Network Project (MEXT, Japan).ReferencesJin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, and Jun?ichiTsujii.
2003.
GENIA corpus - a semantically an-notated corpus for bio-textmining.
Bioinformatics,19(suppl.
1):i180?i182.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2008.Corpus annotation for mining biomedical events fromlterature.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(1):10.R.
Leaman and G. Gonzalez.
2008.
Banner: an exe-cutable survey of advances in biomedical named en-tity recognition.
Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing,pages 652?663.Lorraine Tanabe, Natalie Xie, Lynne Thom, Wayne Mat-ten, and W John Wilbur.
2005.
Genetag: a tagged cor-pus for gene/protein named entity recognition.
BMCBioinformatics, 6(Suppl 1):S3.107
