Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 291?294,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsTowards Acquisition of Taxonomic InferencePiroska LendvaiTilburg centre for Creative ComputingTilburg University, Netherlandsp.lendvai@uvt.nlAbstractOn a pilot corpus of Dutch medical encyclopedia texts, we focuson the mechanism of taxonomic inference that involves the extractionof co-hyponym terms, and the taxonomic or domain-specific lexico-semantic relation in the form of a textual hypothesis, which coordinatesthese.
An initial set of inference elements can be acquired by syntacticand semantic alignment, additionally driven by document structure.From the terms and the related hypothesis we can harvest lexical pat-terns, which are linked to annotated domain concepts.
The aim of theprocess is to learn inference patterns and apply the system to shortas well as unstructured documents where fewer or no discourse-levelcues are available, in order to acquire new co-hyponyms linked to theircoordinating term via a specified relation.1 IntroductionIt is shown in several studies that thematic coherence has an impact on doc-ument structure, hence identifying discourse relations can facilitate access tosemantic content; for an overview of relevant issues in the field of discourseparsing see [2].
In the case of stylistically guided documents, pressure forbrevity and clarity is superimposed on the creative interplay between formand factual content of narration.
An encyclopedia entry often provides adefinition of an entity of which several subtypes exist; these need to be sep-arately treated in the entry.
However, the use of tables, charts, bulletedlists and other visual means that are inherently well suited for representinghierarchically structured data is traditionally not favourable in dominantlytextual media that need to remedy this by providing lexical, syntactic, andstructural cues to the reader.291Linguistic constructions that are employed to convey structured informa-tion can be macro-propositions, for example ?pre-announcements?
of certainsubtopics that are going to be addressed in the document, such as There ex-ists an acute and a chronic form of gallbladder disease, or recurring lexicaland syntactic elements (?chains?)
across the passages treating the subtopics,as in the excerpt from the encyclopedia entry on Digestive tract:The first organ is the tongue which is only present in the phylum Chordata.The second organ is the esophagus.
...
The third organ is the stomach.
...Such constructions serve to alleviate the readers?
cognitive load required tomake semantic inference about hierarchical and semantic relations (e.g., thattongue, esophagus, and stomach are co-hyponyms of the hypernym digestivetract, and all three are organs of it).
Most importantly, many encyclopediaarticles treating co-hyponyms do not feature any of these linguistic means,but operate by activating real-world knowledge, thus it is an empirical re-search issue how to trace back such information.While extracting hyponym-hypernym pairs is a popular topic in the lit-erature, initiated by the seminal paper of [1], identifying specific types ofhypernymy relations has only been addressed for a limited set of generalconcepts [3].
We target the detection of domain-specific lexio-semantic rela-tions (sometimes broadly called ?associative?)
together with traditional hy-pernymy and meronymy relations, by modelling it as a taxonomy inferencephenomenon.
Representing these relations between domain-specific entitiescan be a first step in the construction of an ontological model, which is animportant asset of knowledge-based applications.Taxonomy inference consists of an n-tuple of terms, two or more of themlinked by a coordinate relation, where each of these is linked by either hyper-nymy or associative relation to a common coordinating term.
The relationbetween mother and child node is governed by a certain semantic propertyof the parent node, which is in the case of meronymy and hypernymy bestexpressed by a noun (e.g.
in the medical domain method, phase, form),or in the case of domain-specific relatedness by a verb (such as occurs in orattacks).
The coordinating relation can typically be induced from factual do-main knowledge but often remains implicit in the text: while it is non-trivialto retrieve it, especially for the co-hyponymic terms, based on a single docu-ment and/or lexico-semantic resources, it is an extremely productive generalmechanism of cognitive inference.2922 DataOur pilot corpus comprises 108 entries from the Dutch Spectrum MedicalEncyclopedia1, these were obtained based on identifying repetitive occur-rences of 13 topic labels manually assigned to layout-based sections (treatment,symptoms, cause, etc.)
within an entry.
Token-level annotation was alsomanual, using 12 coarse-grained domain concepts such as body part, duration,disease, disease symptom, microorganism, method of diagnosis.We illustrate the complexity of phenomena underlying taxonomy infer-ence by the following entry (the document and section titles are set in italics).Jaundice, or icterus, is a condition whereby a yellowish discoloration of theskin, the mucous membranes, and whites of the eyes appears.
This is causedby increased levels of the gall pigment bilirubin in the blood serum.
...AdultsAdults can develop jaundice by three means.
By an interruption to thedrainage of bile in the biliary system (e.g.
due to a gallstone or a tumor).... By diseases of the liver (e.g.
hepatitis).
The liver?s ability to metaboliseand excrete bilirubin is reduced, leading to a buildup in the blood.
... Byan increased rate of bilirubine production.
...BabiesBabies can develop a sort of jaundice (icterus neonatorum) shortly afterbirth as a consequence of relatively increased breakdown of red blood cells... .In this entry, the onsets of the two subsections exhibit some syntacticand lexical parallelism; after establishing their similarity, our aim is to lo-cate the relation between the two main terms (adults and babies) in thesesections.
Spotting lexical overlap and using wildcards yields the expression?X can develop Y?, and we hypothesise that the verb phrase instantiates thedomain-specific lexico-semantic relation shared by the coordinate terms inconnection to the term jaundice.Note that this entry does not contain a separate passage of text thatcan be designated as the hypothesis of the above relation, thus we fall backon the lexical string (i.e., the VP) when extracting the relation.
Also notethat taxonomy inference can be embedded: we observe syntactic similarityamong three sentences in the Adults subsection.
Their coordinating hyper-nymy relation is literally expressed by the very first sentence of the section,yielding the pattern ?X can develop Y by [NUM] means?, this sentence is1http://www.winklerprins.com/linkpages/Algemenenaslag.html293thus regarded as the inference hypothesis of the three sentences featuringthe overlapping onsets.3 Goals and EvaluationOur goal is to investigate if we can bootstrap the linking of coordinate termsvia a specific type of relation, inferrable from the given document collection.Next to measuring the utility of sentence alignment based on standard, au-tomatically obtained syntactic (dependency, part-of-speech) and semantic(cosine, querying lexical semantic databases) similarity cues as well as dis-course markers (anaphore) for this task, our focus is on the role lexicalpatterns can play in this process.
We test the impact of two factors on har-vesting lexical patterns as inference elements: (a) syntactic and semanticsegmentation: enriching these with dependency as well as semantic roles,and (b) clustering the patterns according to domain concepts.The results are manually evaluated, preparing training data for furtherbootstrapping.
The system is eventually applied to the full IMIX corpus ofDutch medical encyclopedia texts2to process single-section (i.e., unstruc-tured) documents and automatically detect and link coordinate terms bydomain-specific relations in these new documents.
The obtained terms arematched to available Dutch terminological resources in the medical domain3.References[1] M. Hearst.
Automatic acquisition of hyponyms from large text corpora.In Proc.
of COLING, pages 539?545, 1992.
[2] M-P. Pe?ry-Woodley and D. Scott.
Introduction to the special issue oncomputational approaches to discourse and document structure.
Trait-ment Automatique des Langues, 47(2), 2006.
[3] M. Thelen and E. Riloff.
A bootstrapping method for learning semanticlexicons using extraction pattern contexts.
In Proc.
of ACL, 2002.2http://ilk.uvt.nl/imix3http://taalunieversum.org/taal/terminologie/medisch/294
