Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 37?45,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsHow Feasible and Robust is the Automatic Extraction of Gene RegulationEvents ?
A Cross-Method Evaluation under Lab and Real-Life ConditionsUdo Hahn1 Katrin Tomanek1 Ekaterina Buyko1 Jung-jae Kim2 Dietrich Rebholz-Schuhmann21Jena University Language & Information Engineering (JULIE) LabFriedrich-Schiller-Universita?t Jena, Germany{udo.hahn|katrin.tomanek|ekaterina.buyko}@uni-jena.de2EMBL-EBI, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK{kim|rebholz}@ebi.ac.ukAbstractWe explore a rule system and a machine learn-ing (ML) approach to automatically harvestinformation on gene regulation events (GREs)from biological documents in two differentevaluation scenarios ?
one uses self-suppliedcorpora in a clean lab setting, while the otherincorporates a standard reference database ofcurated GREs from REGULONDB, real-lifedata generated independently from our work.In the lab condition, we test how feasiblethe automatic extraction of GREs really isand achieve F-scores, under different, not di-rectly comparable test conditions though, forthe rule and the ML systems which amountto 34% and 44%, respectively.
In the REGU-LONDB condition, we investigate how robustboth methodologies are by comparing themwith this routinely used database.
Here, thebest F-scores for the rule and the ML systemsamount to 34% and 19%, respectively.1 IntroductionThe extraction of binary relations from biomedicaltext has caught much attention in the recent years.Progress on this and other tasks has been monitoredin challenge competitions such as BIOCREATIVE Iand II,1 which dealt with gene/protein names andand protein-protein interaction.The BIOCREATIVE challenge and other relatedones have shown at several occasions that partici-pants continue to use two fundamentally different1http://biocreative.sourceforge.net/systems: symbolic pattern-based systems (rule sys-tems), on the one hand, and feature-based statisti-cal machine learning (ML) systems, on the otherhand.
This has led to some rivalry with regard to theinterpretation of their performance data, the costsof human efforts still required and their scalabilityfor the various tasks.
While rule systems are of-ten hand-crafted and fine-tuned to a particular ap-plication (making a major manual rewrite often nec-essary when the application area is shifted), MLsystems are trained automatically on manually an-notated corpora, i.e., without manual intervention,and thus have the advantage to more easily adapt tochanges in the requested identification tasks.
Timecosts (human workload) are thus shifted from ruledesign and adaptation to metadata annotation.Text mining systems as usually delivered byBioNLP researchers render biologically relevant en-tities and relations on a limited set of test documentsonly.
While this might be sufficient for the BioNLPcommunity, it is certainly insufficient for bioinfor-maticians and molecular biologists since they re-quire large-scale data with high coverage and reli-ability.
For our analysis, we have chosen the topicof gene regulatory events in E. coli, which is a do-main of very active research and grand challenges.2Currently the gold standard of the existing body ofknowledge of such events is represented by the factdatabase REGULONDB.3 Its content has been man-2The field of gene regulation is one of the most prominenttopics of research and often mentioned as one of the core fieldsof future research in molecular biology (cf, e.g., the GrandChallenge I-2 described by Collins et al (2003)).3http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/37ually gathered from the scientific literature and de-scribes the curated computational model of mecha-nisms of transcriptional regulation in E. coli.
Havingthis gold standard in mind, we face the challengingtask to automatically reproduce this content from theavailable literature, to enhance this content with re-liable additional information and to update this re-source as part of a regular automatic routine.Hence, we first explore the feasibility and per-formance of a rule-based and an ML-based systemagainst special, independently created corpora thatwere generated to enable measurements under cleanexperimental lab conditions.
This part, due to dif-ferent experimental settings, is not meant as a com-parison between both approaches though.
We thenmove to the even more demanding real-life scenariowhere we evaluate and compare these solutions forthe identification of gene regulatory events againstthe REGULONDB data resource.
This approach tar-gets the robustness of the proposed text mining so-lutions from the perspectives of completeness, cor-rectness and novelty of the generated results.2 Related WorkConsidering relation extraction (RE) in the biomed-ical domain, there are only few studies which dealprimarily with gene regulation.
Yang et al (2008)focus on the detection of sentences that containmentions of transcription factors (proteins regulat-ing gene expression).
They aim at the detectionof new transcription factors, while relations are nottaken into account.
In contrast, S?aric?
et al (2004)extract gene regulatory networks and achieve in theRE task an accuracy of up to 90%.
They disregard,however, ambiguous instances, which may have ledto the low recall around 20%.
The Genic InteractionExtraction Challenge (Ne?dellec, 2005) was orga-nized to determine the state-of-the-art performanceof systems designed for the detection of gene regula-tion interactions.
The best system achieved a perfor-mance of about 50% F-score.
The results, however,have to be taken with care as the LLL corpus used inthe challenge is of extremely limited size.3 Extraction of Gene Regulation EventsGene regulation is a complex cellular process thatcontrols the expression of genes.
These genes arethen transcribed into their RNA representation andlater translated into proteins, which fulfill varioustasks such as maintaining the cell structure, enablingthe generation of energy and interaction with the en-vironment.The analysis of the gene regulatory processes isongoing research work in molecular biology and af-fects a large number of research domains.
In par-ticular the interpretation of gene expression profilesfrom microarray analyses could be enhanced usingour understanding of gene regulation events (GREs)from the literature.We approach the task of the automatic extractionof GREs from literature from two different method-ological angles.
On the one hand, we provide a set ofhand-crafted rules ?
both for linguistic analysis andconceptual inference (cf.
Section 3.1), the latter be-ing particularly helpful in unveiling only implicitlystated biological knowledge.
On the other hand, wesupply a machine learning-based system for eventextraction (cf.
Section 3.2).
No regularities are spec-ified a priori by a human although, at least in the su-pervised scenario we have chosen, this approach re-lies on training data supplied by human (expert) an-notators who provide sufficiently many instances ofground truth decisions from which regularities canautomatically be learnt.
At the level of system per-formance, rules tend to foster precision at the costof recall and ML systems tend to produce inversefigures, while there is no conclusive evidence for oragainst any of these two approaches.The extraction of GREs, independent of the ap-proach one subscribes to, is a complex problemcomposed of a series of subtasks.
Abstracting awayfrom lots of clerical and infrastructure services (e.g.,sentence splitting, tokenization) at the core of anyGRE extraction lie the following basic steps:?
the identification of pairs of gene mentions asthe arguments of a relation ?
the well-knownnamed entity recognition and normalizationtask,?
the decision whether the entity pair really con-stitutes a relation,?
and the identification of the roles of the argu-ments in the relation which implicitly amountsto characterize each argument as either agent orpatient.383.1 Rule-based ExtractionThe rule-based system extracts GREs from text em-ploying logical inference.
The motivation of usinginference is that the events under scrutiny are oftenexpressed in text in either a compositional or an in-complete way.
We address this issue by composi-tionally representing textual semantics and by log-ically inferring implicit meanings of text over thecompositional representation of textual semantics.Entity Identification.
The system first recognizesnamed entities of the types that can be participants ofthe target events.
We have collected 15,881 E. coligene/protein and operon names from REGULONDBand UNIPROT.
Most of the gene/protein names areassociated with UNIPROT identifiers.
An operon inprokaryotes is a DNA sequence with multiple geneswhose expression is controlled by a shared promoterand which thus express together.
We have mappedthe operon names to corresponding gene sets.Named entity recognition relies on the use of dic-tionaries.
If the system recognizes an operon name,it then associates the operon with its genes.
Thesystem further recognizes multi-gene object names(e.g., ?acrAB?
), divides them into individual genenames (e.g., ?acrA?, ?acrB?)
and associates the genenames with the multi-gene object names.Relation Identification.
The system then iden-tifies syntactic structures of sentences in an in-put corpus by utilizing the ENJU parser (Sagae etal., 2007).
The ENJU parser generates predicate-argument structures, and the system converts theminto dependency structures.The system then analyzes the semantics of thesentences by matching syntactic-semantic patternsto the dependency structures.
We constructed 1,123patterns for the event extraction according to the fol-lowing workflow.
We first collected keywords re-lated to gene regulation, from GENE ONTOLOGY,INTERPRO, WORDNET, and several papers aboutinformation extraction from biomedical literature(Hatzivassiloglou and Weng, 2002; Kim and Park,2004; Huang et al, 2004).
Then we collected sub-categorization frames for each keyword and createdpatterns for the frames manually.Each pattern consists of a syntactic pattern anda semantic pattern.
The syntactic patterns com-ply with dependency structures.
The system triesto match the syntactic patterns to the dependencystructures of sentences in a bottom-up way, consid-ering syntactic and semantic restrictions of syntac-tic patterns.
Once a syntactic pattern is successfullymatched to a sub-tree of the available dependencystructure, its corresponding semantic pattern is as-signed to the sub-tree as one of its semantics.
Thesemantic patterns are combined according to the de-pendency structures to form a compositional seman-tic structure.The system then performs logical inference overthe semantic structures by using handcrafted infer-ence rules and extracts target information from theresults of the inference.
We have manually created28 inference rules that reflect the knowledge of thegene regulation domain.
Only relations where theidentified agent is one of those known TFs are kept,while all others are discarded.3.2 Generic, ML-based ExtractionApart from the already mentioned clerical pre-processing steps, the ML-based extraction of GREsrequires several additional syntactic processingsteps including POS-tagging, chunking, and fulldependency- and constituency-based parsing.4Entity Identification.
To identify gene names inthe documents, we applied GENO, a multi-organismgene name recognizer and normalizer (Wermteret al, 2009) which achieved a top-rank perfor-mance of 86.4% on the gene normalization taskof BIOCREATIVE-II.
GENO recognizes gene men-tions by means of an ML-based named entity tag-ger trained on publicly available corpora.
Subse-quently, it attempts to map all identified mentions toorganism-specific UNIPROT5 identifiers.
Mentionsthat cannot be mapped are discarded; only success-fully mapped mentions are kept.
We utilized GENOin its original version, i.e., without special adjust-ments to the E. coli organism.
However, only thosementions detected to be genes of E. coli were fedinto the relation extraction component.4These tasks were performed with the OPENNLP tools(http://opennlp.sourceforge.net/) and theMST parser (http://sourceforge.net/projects/mstparser), both retrained on biomedical corpora.5http://www.uniprot.de39Relation Identification.
The ML-based approachto GRE employs Maximum Entropy models andconstitutes and extension of the system proposed byBuyko et al (2008) as it also makes use of depen-dency parse information including dependency treelevel features (Katrenko and Adriaans, 2006) andshortest dependency path features (Kim et al, 2008).In short, the feature set consists of:?
word features (covering words before, after andbetween both entity mentions);?
entity features (accounting for combinations ofentity types, flags indicating whether mentionshave an overlap, and their mention level);?
chunking and constituency-based parsing fea-tures (concerned with head words of thephrases between two entity mentions; this classof features exploits constituency-based parsingas well and indicates, e.g., whether mentionsare in the same NP, PP or VP);?
dependency parse features (analyzing both thedependency levels of the arguments as dis-cussed by Katrenko and Adriaans (2006) anddependency path structure between the argu-ments as described by Kim et al (2008));?
and relational trigger (key)words (accountingfor the connection of trigger words and men-tions in a full parse tree).An advantage of ML-based systems is that theyallow for thresholding.
To achieve higher recallvalues for our system, we may set the confidencethreshold for the negative class (i.e., a pair of en-tity mentions does not constitute a relation) to values> 0.5.
Clearly, this is at the cost of precision as thesystem more readily assigns the positive class.4 Intrinsic Evaluation of FeasibilityThe following two sections aim at evaluating therule-based and ML-based GRE extraction systems.The systems are first ?intrinsically?
evaluated, i.e.,in a cross-validation manner on corpora annotatedwith respect to GREs.
Second, in a more realisticscenario, both systems were evaluated against REG-ULONDB, a database collecting knowledge aboutgene regulation in E. coli.
This scenario tests whichpart of manually accumulated knowledge about generegulation in E. coli can automatically be identifiedby our systems and at what level of quality.4.1 Rule-based systemCorpus.
For the training and evaluation of therule-based system, we annotated 209 MEDLINE ab-stracts with three types of events: specific eventsof gene transcription regulation, general events ofgene expression regulation, and physical events ofbinding of transcription factors to gene regulatoryregions.
Strictly speaking, only the first type is rele-vant to REGULONDB.
However, biologists often re-port gene transcription regulation events in the sci-entific literature as if they are gene expression regu-lation events, which is a generalization of gene tran-scription regulation, or the binding event, which it-self is insufficient evidence for gene transcriptionregulation.
The two latter types may indicate thatthe full-texts contain evidence of the first type.We asked two curators to annotate the abstracts.Curator A was trained with example annotations andinteractive discussions.
Curator B was trained onlywith example annotations and guidelines.
For cross-checking of annotations, we asked them to annotatean unseen corpus of 97 abstracts and found that Cu-rator A made 10.8% errors, misjudging three eventadditions and, in the other 14 errors, mistaking inannotating event types, event attributes, and pas-sage boundaries, while Curator B made 32.4% er-rors as such.
This result indicates that the annotationof GREs requires intensive and interactive training.The curators have discussed and agreed on the finalrelease of the corpora.6Results.
The system has successfully extracted 79biologically meaningful events among them (21.1%recall) and incorrectly produced 15 events (84.0%precision) which constitutes an overall F-score of33.6%.
Among the 79 events, the system has cor-rectly identified event types of 39 events (49.4% pre-cision), polarity of 46 events (58.2% precision), anddirectness of 51 events (64.6% precision).
Note thatthe system employed a fully automatic module fornamed entity recognition.
The event type recogni-tion is impaired, because it often fails to recognize6The resultant annotated corpora are available at http://www.ebi.ac.uk/?kim/eventannotation/.40the specific event type of transcription regulation,but only identifies the general event type of gene ex-pression regulation due to the lack of identified evi-dence.4.2 ML-based systemGeneReg corpus.
The GENEREG corpus (Buykoet al, 2008) constitutes a selection of 314 MED-LINE abstracts related to gene regulation in E. coli.These abstracts were randomly drawn from a set of32,155 selected by MESH term queries from MED-LINE using keywords such as Escherichia coli, GeneExpression and Transcription Factors.
These 314abstracts were manually annotated for named enti-ties involved in gene regulatory processes (such astranscription factor, including co-factors and regu-lators, and genes) and pairwise relations betweentranscription factors (TFs) and genes, as well as trig-gers (e.g., clue verbs) essential for the description ofgene regulation relations.
As for the relation types,the GENEREG corpus distinguishes between (a) un-specified regulation of gene expression, (b) positive,and (c) negative regulation of gene expression.
Outof the 314 abstracts a set of 65 were randomly se-lected and annotated by a second annotator to iden-tify inter-annotator agreement (IAA) values.
For thetask of correct identification of the pair of interactingnamed entities in gene regulation processes, an IAAof 78.4% (R), 77.3% (P ), 77.8% (F) was measured ,while 67% (R), 67.9% (P), 67.4% (F) were achievedfor the identification of interacting pairs plus the 3-way classification of the interaction relation.Experimental Setting.
The ML-based extractionsystem merges all of the above mentioned threetypes (unspecific, negative and positive) into onecommon type ?relation of gene expression?.
So, iteither finds that there is a relation of interest be-tween a pair of gold entity mentions or not.
Weevaluated our system by a 5-fold cross-validation onthe GENEREG corpus.
The fold splits were doneon the abstract-level to avoid the otherwise unrealis-tic scenario where a system is trained on sentencesfrom an abstract and evaluated on other sentencesbut from the same abstract (Pyysalo et al, 2008).As our focus here is only on the performance of theGRE extraction component, gold entity mentions asannotated in the respective corpus were used.Results.
For the experimental settings givenabove, the system achieved an F-score of 42% witha precision of 59% and a recall of 33%.
Increasingthe confidence threshold for the negative class in-creases recall as shown for two different thresholdsin Table 1.
As expected this is at the cost of preci-sion.
It shows, that using an extremely high thresh-old of 0.95 results in a dramatically increased recallof 73% compared to 33% with the default threshold.Although at the cost of diminished precision of 32%compared to originally 59%, the lifted threshold in-creases the overall F-score (44%) by 2 points.threshold R P Fdefault (0.5) 0.33 0.59 0.420.80 0.54 0.43 0.480.95 0.73 0.32 0.44Table 1: Different confidence thresholds for the ML-based system achieved by intrinsic evaluation5 Extrinsic Evaluation of RobustnessREGULONDB is the primary and largest referencedatabase providing manually curated knowledge ofthe transcriptional regulatory network of E. coliK12.
On K12, approximately for one-third of K12?sgenes, information about their regulation is avail-able.
REGULONDB is updated with content fromrecent research papers on this issue.
While REG-ULONDB contains much more, for this paper ourfocus was solely on REGULONDB?s informationabout gene regulation events in E. coli.
In the fol-lowing, the term REGULONDB refers to this part ofthe REGULONDB database.
REGULONDB includese.g., the following information for each regulationevent: regulatory gene (the ?agent?
in such an event,a transcription factor), the regulated gene (the ?pa-tient?
), the regulatory effect on the regulated gene(activating, suppression, dual, unknown), and evi-dence that supports the existence of the regulatoryinteraction.Evaluation against REGULONDB constitutes areal-life scenario.
Thus, the complete extraction sys-tems were run, including gene name recognition andnormalization as well as relation detection.
Hence,the systems?
overall recall values are highly affectedby the gene name identification.
REGULONDB ishere taken as a ?true?
gold standard and thus as-41sumed to be correct and exhaustive with respect tothe GREs contained.
As, however, every manu-ally curated database is likely to be incomplete andmight contain some errors, we supplement our eval-uation against REGULONDB with a manual analy-sis of false positives errors caused by our system (cf.Section 5.4).5.1 Evaluation Scenario and ExperimentalSettingsTo evaluate our extraction systems against REG-ULONDB we first processed a set of input docu-ments (see below), collected all unique gene reg-ulation events extracted and compared this set ofevents against the full set of known events in REG-ULONDB.
A true positive (TP) hit is obtained, whenan event found automatically corresponds to one inREGULONDB, i.e., having the same agent and pa-tient.
The type of regulation is not considered.
Afalse positive (FP) hit is counted, if an event wasfound which does not occur in the same way inREGULONDB, i.e., either patient or agent (or both)are wrong.
False negatives (FN) are those eventscovered by REGULONDB but not found by a sys-tem automatically.
From these hit values, standardprecision, recall, and F-score values are calculated.Of course, the systems?
performance largely dependon the size of the base corpus collection processed.Thus, for both systems and all three document setswe got separate performance scores.Table 2 gives an overview to the document col-lections used for evaluating the robustness of oursystems: The ?ecoli-tf?
variants are documents fil-tered both with E. coli TF names and with relevanceto E. coli.
Abstracts are taken from Medline cita-tions, while full texts are from a corpus of differentbiomedical journals.
The third document set, ?regu-lon ra?, is a set containing abstracts from the REG-ULONDB references.name type # documentsecoli-tf.abstracts abstract 4,347ecoli-tf.fulltext full texts 1,812regulon ra abstracts 2,704Table 2: Document sets for REGULONDB evaluation5.2 Rule-based-SystemTable 3 shows the evaluation results of the rule-based system against REGULONDB.
Though thesystem distinguishes the three types of events, wehave considered them all as events of gene tran-scription regulation for the evaluation.
For instance,the system has extracted 718 unique events withsingle-unit participants (i.e., excluding operons), notconsidering event types and attributes (e.g., polar-ity), from the ?ecoli-tf.fulltext?
corpus.
Among theevents, 347 events are found in Regulon (9.7% re-call, 48.3% precision).
If we only consider theevents that are specifically identified as gene tran-scription regulation, the system has extracted 379unique events among which 201 are also found inRegulon (5.6% recall, 53.0% precision).participant document set R P Fsingle-unit ecoli-tf.abstracts 0.09 0.60 0.15multi-unit ecoli-tf.abstracts 0.24 0.61 0.34single-unit ecoli-tf.fulltext 0.10 0.48 0.16multi-unit ecoli-tf.fulltext 0.25 0.49 0.33single-unit regulon ra 0.07 0.73 0.13multi-unit regulon ra 0.18 0.70 0.28Table 3: Results of evaluation against REGULONDB ofrule-based system.When we split multi-unit participants into individ-ual genes, the rule-based system shows better per-formance, as shown in Table 3 with the participanttype ?multi-unit?.
This may indicate that the generegulatory events of E. coli are often described asinteractions of operons.
At best, the system shows34% F-score with the ?ecoli-tf.abstracts?
corpus.5.3 ML-based SystemThe ML-based system was designed to recognizeall types of gene regulation events.
REGULONDB,however, contains only the subtype, i.e., regulationof transcription.
Thus, the ML-based system wasevaluated against REGULONDB in two modes: bydefault, all events extracted by the systems are con-sidered; in the ?TF-filtered?
mode, only relationswith an agent from the list of all known TFs in E.coli are considered (as done for the rule-based sys-tem by default).
Thus, comparing to the rule-basedsystem, only the results obtained in the ?TF-filtered?mode should be considered.425.3.1 Raw performance scoresThe results for the ML-based system are shown inTable 4.
Recall values here range between 7 and10%, while precision is between 29 and 78% de-pending on both the document set as well as theapplication of the TF filter.
The low recall of theML-based system is partially due to the fact that thesystem does not recognize multi-gene object names(e.g., ?acrAB?
), in this configuration the recall issimilar to the recall of the rule-based system in a?single-unit modus?
(see Table 3).mode document set R P FTF-filtered ecoli-tf.abstracts 0.09 0.70 0.16default ecoli-tf.abstracts 0.09 0.45 0.15TF-filtered ecoli-relevant.fulltext 0.10 0.54 0.17default ecoli-relevant.fulltext 0.10 0.29 0.15TF-filtered regulon ra 0.07 0.78 0.13default regulon ra 0.07 0.47 0.12Table 4: Results of evaluation against REGULONDB ofML-based systemAs already shown in the intrinsic evaluation,application of different confidence thresholds in-creases the recall of the ML-based system.
This wasalso done for the evaluation against REGULONDB.Table 5 shows the impact of increased confidencethresholds for the negative class on the ?regulon ra?set for the ?TF-filtered?
evaluation mode.
Given anextremely high threshold of 0.95, the recall is in-creased from 7 to 11% which constitutes a relativeincrease of over 60%.
Precision obviously drops,however, the overall F-score has improved from 13to 19%.
These results emphasize that an ML-basedsystem has an important handle which allows to ad-just recall according to the application needs.threshold R P Fdefault (0.5) 0.07 0.78 0.130.8 0.09 0.70 0.160.95 0.11 0.63 0.19Table 5: Different confidence thresholds for the ML-based system tested on the ?regulon ra?
set5.4 Manual analysis of false positivesREGULONDB was taken as an absolute gold stan-dard in this evaluation.
If a system correctly extractsan event which is not contained in REGULONDBfor some reason, this constitutes a FP.
Moreover, allkinds of error (e.g., agent and patient mixed up) weresubsumed as FP errors.
To analyze the cause anddistribution of FPs in more detail, a manual analysisof the FP errors was performed and original FP hitswere assigned to one out of four FP error categories:Cat1: Not a GRE This is really an FP error, as theextracted relation does not at all constitute agene regulation event.Cat2a: GRE but other than transcriptionUnlike REGULONDB which contains only onesubtype of GREs, namely transcriptions, theML-based system identifies all kinds of GREs.Therefore, the ML-based system clearlyidentifies events which cannot be contained inREGULONDB and, therefore, are not reallyFPs.Cat 3: Partially correct transcription event Thiscategory deals with incorrect arguments ofGREs.
We distinguish three types of FPs: (a)the patient and the agent role are interchanged,(b) the patient is wrong, while the agent isright, and (c) the agent is wrong, while thepatient is right.
In all these three cases, thougherrors were committed human curators mightfind the partially incorrect information usefulto speed up the curation process.Cat4: Relation missing in REGULONDB Thoseare relations which should be contained inREGULONDB but are missing for somereason.
The agent is a correctly identifiedtranscription factor and the sentence containsa mention of a transcription event.
There areseveral reasons why this relation was not foundin REGULONDB as we will discuss in thefollowing.Table 6 shows the results of the manual FP anal-ysis of the ML-based system (no TF filter applied)on the ?ecoli-tf-abstracts?
and ?ecoli-tf-fulltexts?.It shows that the largest source of error is dueto Cat1, i.e., an identified relation is completelywrong.
As fulltext documents are generally morecomplex, the relative amount of this kind of errorsis higher here than on abstracts (54.5 % compared43category abstracts (%) fulltexts (%)Cat 1 44.5 54.5Cat 2 11.2 10.9Cat 3a 3.8 3.9Cat 3b 8.5 4.4Cat 3c 8.2 5.4Cat 4 23.8 21.0Table 6: Manual analysis of false positive errors (FP).Percentages of FPs by category are reported on ?ecoli-tf-abstracts?
and ?ecoli-tf-fulltexts?to 44.5 %).
However, on abstracts and fulltexts, abit more than 10 % of the FP are because the sys-tem found too general GREs which, by definition,are not contained in REGULONDB (Cat2).
Iden-tified GREs that were partially correct constitute20.5 % (abstracts) or 13.7 % (fulltexts) of the FP er-rors (Cat3).Finally, 23.8% and 21.0% of the FPs for abstractsand fulltext, respectively, are correct transcriptionevents but could not be found in REGULONDB(Cat4).
This is due to several reasons.
For instance,identified gene names were incorrectly normalizedso that they could not be found in REGULONDB,REGULONDB curators have not yet added a relationor simply overlooked it; relations are correctly iden-tified as such in the narrow context of a paragraph ofa document but were actually of speculative natureonly (this includes relations whose status is unsure,often indicated by ?likely?
or ?possibly?
).Summarizing, the manual FP analysis shows thatabout 50% of all FPs are not completely erroneous.These numbers must clearly be kept in mind wheninterpreting the raw numbers (especially for preci-sion) reported on in the previous subsection.5.5 Integration of text mining resultsWe have integrated the results of the two differenttext mining systems and found that both systems arecomplementary to each other such that their resultsets do not heavily overlap.
For instance, from the?ecoli-tf.abstract?
corpus, the rule-based system ex-tracts 992 events, while the ML-based system ex-tracts 705 events.
For the integration, we have con-sidered only the events whose participants are as-sociated with UNIPROT identifiers.
Among the ex-tracted events, only 285 events are extracted by bothsystems.
We might speculate that the overlappingevents are more reliable than the rest of the extractedevents.
It also leaves 71.3% of the results fromthe rule-based system and 59.6% of results from theML-based system as unique contributions from eachof the approaches for the integration.6 ConclusionsWe have explored a rule-based and a machinelearning-based approach to the automatic extrac-tion of gene regulation events.
Both approacheswere evaluated under well-defined lab conditions us-ing self-supplied corpora, and under real-life condi-tions by comparing our results with REGULONDB,a well-curated reference data set.
While the re-sults for the first evaluation scenario are state of theart, performance figures in the real-life scenario arenot so shiny (the best F-scores for the rule-basedand the ML-based system are on the order of 34%and 19%, respectively).
This holds, in particular,for the comparison with the work of Rodr?
?guez-Penagos et al (2007).
Still, at least the ML-basedapproach is much more general than the very specifi-cally tuned manual rule set from Rodr?
?guez-Penagoset al (2007) and has potential for increases in perfor-mance.
Also, this has been the first extra-mural eval-uation of automatically generating content for REG-ULONDB.Still, the analysis of false positives reveals thatthe strict criteria we applied for our evaluation mayappear in another light for human curators.
Con-founded agents and patients (21% on the abstracts,14% on full texts) and information not contained inREGULONDB (24% on the abstracts, 21% on fulltexts) might be useful from a heuristic perspective tofocus on interesting data during the curation process.AcknowledgementsThis work was funded by the EC within the BOOT-Strep (FP6-028099) and the CALBC (FP7-231727)projects.
We want to thank Tobias Wagner (Centrefor Molecular Biomedicine, FSU Jena) for perform-ing the manual FP analysis.44ReferencesEkaterina Buyko, Elena Beisswanger, and Udo Hahn.2008.
Testing different ACE-style feature sets forthe extraction of gene regulation relations from MED-LINE abstracts.
In Proceedings of the 3rd Interna-tional Symposium on Semantic Mining in Biomedicine(SMBM 2008), pages 21?28.Francis Collins, Eric Green, Alan Guttmacher, and MarkGuyer.
2003.
A vision for the future of genomics re-search.
Nature, 422(6934 (24 Feb)):835?847.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Wubin Weng.
2002.Learning anchor verbs for biological interaction pat-terns from published text articles.
International Jour-nal of Medical Informatics, 67:19?32.Minlie Huang, Xiaoyan Zhu, Donald G. Payan, Kun-bin Qu, and Ming Li.
2004.
Discovering patternsto extract protein-protein interactions from full texts.Bioinformatics, 20(18):3604?3612.Sophia Katrenko and P. Adriaans.
2006.
Learning rela-tions from biomedical corpora using dependency trees.In KDECB 2006 ?
Knowledge Discovery and Emer-gent Complexity in Bioinformatics, pages 61?80.Jung-jae Kim and Jong C. Park.
2004.
BioIE: retar-getable information extraction and ontological anno-tation of biological interactions from the literature.Journal of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology,2(3):551?568.Seon-Ho Kim, Juntae Yoon, and Jihoon Yang.
2008.Kernel approaches for genic interaction extraction.Bioinformatics, 24(1):118?126.Claire Ne?dellec.
2005.
Learning language in logic -genic interaction extraction challenge.
In Learninglanguage in logic - genic interaction extraction LLL?2005, pages 31?37.Sampo Pyysalo, Antti Airola, Juho Heimonen, JariBjo?rne, Filip Ginter, and Tapio Salakoski.
2008.Comparative analysis of five protein-protein interac-tion corpora.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(3), April.Carlos Rodr?
?guez-Penagos, Heladia Salgado, IrmaMart?
?nez-Flores, and Julio Collado-Vides.
2007.
Au-tomatic reconstruction of a bacterial regulatory net-work using natural language processing.
BMC Bioin-formatics, 8(293).Kenji Sagae, Yusuke Miyao, and Junichi Tsujii.
2007.HPSG parsing with shallow dependency constraints.In Annual Meeting of Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 624?631.Jasmin S?aric?, Lars J. Jensen, Rossitza Ouzounova, IsabelRojas, and Peer Bork.
2004.
Extracting regulatorygene expression networks from pubmed.
In ACL ?04:Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Meeting on Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, page 191, Morris-town, NJ, USA.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Joachim Wermter, Katrin Tomanek, and Udo Hahn.2009.
High-performance gene name normalizationwith GeNo.
Bioinformatics, 25(6):815?821.Hui Yang, Goran Nenadic, and John Keane.
2008.
Iden-tification of transcription factor contexts in literatureusing machine learning approaches.
BMC Bioinfor-matics, 9(Supplement 3: S11).45
