Proceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 133?141,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying Interaction Sentences from Biological Literature UsingAutomatically Extracted PatternsHaibin LiuFaculty of Computer ScienceDalhousie UniversityHalifax, NS, Canadahaibin@cs.dal.caChristian BlouinFaculty of Computer ScienceDalhousie UniversityHalifax, NS, Canadacblouin@cs.dal.caVlado Kes?eljFaculty of Computer ScienceDalhousie UniversityHalifax, NS, Canadavlado@cs.dal.caAbstractAn important task in information retrieval is toidentify sentences that contain important relation-ships between key concepts.
In this work, wepropose a novel approach to automatically extractsentence patterns that contain interactions involv-ing concepts of molecular biology.
A pattern isdefined in this work as a sequence of specializedPart-of-Speech (POS) tags that capture the struc-ture of key sentences in the scientific literature.Each candidate sentence for the classification taskis encoded as a POS array and then aligned toa collection of pre-extracted patterns.
The qual-ity of the alignment is expressed as a pairwisealignment score.
The most innovative componentof this work is the use of a Genetic Algorithm(GA) to maximize the classification performanceof the alignment scoring scheme.
The systemachieves an F-score of 0.834 in identifying sen-tences which describe interactions between bio-logical entities.
This performance is mostly af-fected by the quality of the preprocessing stepssuch as term identification and POS tagging.1 IntroductionRecent research in information extraction (IE) in bio-logical science has focused on extracting informationabout interactions between biological entities from re-search communications.
The type of interaction of in-terest includes protein-protein, protein-DNA, gene reg-ulations and other interactions between macromole-cules.
This work broadens the definition of the term?interaction?
to include other types of concepts thatare semantically related to cellular components andprocesses.
This contrasts with the past efforts focus-ing strictly on molecular interactions (Blaschke et al,1999; Ono et al, 2001).
We anticipate that identifyingthe relationships between concepts of molecular biol-ogy will facilitate the building of knowledge models,improve the sensitivity of IE tasks and ultimately facil-itate the formulation of new hypothesis by experimen-talists.The extraction of interactions is based on the heuris-tic premise that interacting concepts co-occur withina given section of text.
The challenge is that co-occurrence certainly does not guarantee that a passagecontains an interaction(Jang et al, 2006; Skusa et al,2005).
Co-occurrence is highly dependent on the de-finition of the section of text within which the targetterms are expected to be found.
A thorough compari-son on the prediction of protein-protein interaction be-tween abstract-level co-occurrence and sentence-levelco-occurrence was undertaken (Raychaudhuri, 2006).It is demonstrated that abstract co-occurrence is moresensitive but less specific for interactions.
At the costof wide coverage, sentence co-occurrence increases theaccuracy of interaction prediction.
Since the ultimategoal of IE is to extract knowledge and accuracy is themost important aspect in evaluating the performanceof such systems, it makes sense to focus the effortin seeking interaction sentences rather than passagesor abstracts.
Not every co-occurrence in sentencesimplies a relationship that expresses a fact.
In the2005 Genomics Track dataset, 50% of all sentence co-occurrences of entities correspond to definite relation-ships while the rest of the co-occurrences only conveysome possible relationships or contain no relationshipof interest (Li et al, 2005).
Therefore, more sophisti-cated text mining strategies are required to classify sen-tences that describe interactions between co-occurringconcepts.In the BioCreative II challenge 1, teams were askedto determine whether a given passage of text containedinformation about the interaction between two proteins.This classification task worked at the abstract level andthe interacting protein pairs were not required to be ex-tracted.
The task for the Learning Language in Logic1http://biocreative.sourceforge.net/133(LLL?05) challenge 2 was to build systems that ex-tract interactions between genes or proteins from bio-logical literature.
From individual sentences annotatedwith agent-target relations, patterns or models had to belearned to extract these interactions.
The task focusedon extracting only the interacting partners.
The contextof an interaction may also be critical to the validity ofthe extracted knowledge since not all statements foundin the literature are always true.In this work, we propose an approach to automati-cally extract patterns containing relevant interaction be-tween biological concepts.
This extraction is based onthe assumption that biological interactions are articu-lated by a limited number of POS patterns embeddedin sentences where entities/concepts are co-occurring.The extracted patterns are then applied to identify inter-action sentences which describe interactions betweenbiological entities.
Our work aims to identify precisesentences rather than passages.
Because of the natureof the patterns, we hope that some of the contextual in-formation present in interaction sentences also play arole in the classification task.The rest of the paper is organized as follows: In Sec-tion 2, we review recent research advances in extractingbiological interactions.
Section 3 describes an experi-mental system designed for our work.
Sections 4, 5and 6 elaborate the approaches and algorithms.
Per-formance is evaluated in Section 7.
Finally, Section 8summarizes the paper and introduces future work.2 Related workEarly on, Blaschke (Blaschke et al, 1999) employedpatterns to predict the presence of a protein-protein in-teraction.
A series of patterns was developed manu-ally to cover the most obvious descriptions of proteinfunctions.
This process was based on a set of key-words, including interaction verbs, that are commonlyused to describe this type of interaction.
A sentence ex-traction system BioIE (Divoli and Attwood, 2005) alsouses patterns to extract entire sentences related to pro-tein families, protein structures, functions and diseases.The patterns were manually defined and consisted ofsingle words, word pairs, and small phrases.Although systems relying on hand-coded patternshave achieved some success in extracting biological in-teractions, the strict requirement of dedicated expertwork is problematic.
Moreover, each type of interac-tion may require a definition of many different patternsincluding different arrangements and different variants2http://genome.jouy.inra.fr/texte/LLLchallenge/of the same keyword.
Manually encoding all patternsencountered in a corpus is time-consuming and poten-tially impractical in real applications.
Thus, automati-cally learning such patterns is an attractive solution.An approach which combines dynamic program-ming and sequence alignment algorithms as normallyused for the comparison between nucleotide sequenceswas introduced by Huang et al (Huang et al, 2004).This approach is designed to generate patterns usefulfor extracting protein-protein interactions.
The mainproblem with this approach is that the scoring schemethat is required to implement the alignment algorithm isdifficult to define and contains a potentially large num-ber of free parameters.
We propose a method basedon Genetic Algorithm (GA) heuristics to maximize thealignment procedure for the purpose of classification.GAs were also used as a learning strategy to train finitestate automata for finding biological relation patternsin texts(Plake et al, 2005).
It was reported (Bunescu etal., 2005; Hakenberg et al, 2005) that automaticallylearned patterns identify biological interactions evenmore accurately than hand-coded patterns.3 Overview of system designIn this work, we have designed an experimental sys-tem to facilitate the automatic extraction of biologicalinteraction patterns and the identification of interactionsentences.
It consists of three major modules: biolog-ical text preprocessing, interaction pattern extraction,and interaction sentence identification.Biological text preprocessing reformats the originalbiological texts into candidate sentences.
A patternlearning method is then proposed to automatically ex-tract the representative patterns of biological interac-tions.
The obtained patterns are further used to iden-tify instances that evidently describe biological inter-actions.
Poor performance during preprocessing willhave detrimental effects on later stages.
In the follow-ing sections, we will describe each component.4 Biological text preprocessing4.1 Sentence preparationA heuristic method is implemented to detect sentenceboundaries (Mikheev, 2002) based on the assumptionthat sentences are usually demarcated by some indica-tive delimiting punctuation marks in order to segmentthe biological texts into sentence units.
Captions andheadings that are not grammatically valid sentences aretherefore detected and further eliminated for our work.1344.2 Part-of-Speech taggingPOS tagging is then performed to associate each wordin a sentence with its most likely POS tag.
Becausesubsequent processing steps typically depend on thetagger?s output, high performance at this level is cru-cial for success in later stages.
A statistical tagger Lin-gua::EN::Tagger 3 is used to perform this task.4.3 Biological term annotationA learning-based biological term annotation system,ABTA (Jiampojamarn et al, 2005), is embedded in oursystem.
The type of terms includes molecules, suchas genes, proteins and cell lines, and also biologicalprocesses.
Examples of biological processes as entitiesare: ?T cell activation?
and ?IL-2 gene transcription?.We consider that a broader definition of biological termwill include more facts from literature, thus leading tomore general use of interaction patterns for IE tasks.ABTA considers the longest expression and ignoresembedded entities.
Further, instead of distinguishingterms from their relevant biology concepts, a unifiedtag ?BIO?
is assigned to all the identified terms.
Weaim to discover patterns of the general interactions be-tween biological concepts, not only the interactions be-tween molecules, e.g., protein-protein interaction.Tags like NN (noun) and VB (verb) are typically usedto define entities and the action type of interactions,and thus they are indispensable.
However, tags suchas JJ (adjective) and RB (adverb) could occur at differ-ent positions in a sentence.
We decided to remove thesetags to prevent the combinatorial effect that these wouldinduce within the set of extracted patterns.4.4 Text chunkingNext, a rule-based text chunker (Ramshaw and Mar-cus, 1995) is applied on the tagged sentences to fur-ther identify phrasal units, such as base noun phrasesNP and verbal units VB.
This allows us to focus on theholistic structure of each sentence.
Text chunking is notapplied on the identified biological terms.
In order toachieve more generalized interaction patterns, a unifiedtag ?VB?
is used to represent every verbal unit insteadof employing different tags for various tenses of verbs.As a result of preprocessing, every sentence is rep-resented by its generalized form as a sequence of cor-responding tags consisting of POS tags and predefinedtags.
Table 1 summarizes the main tags in the system.A biological interaction tends to involve at least threeobjects: a pair of co-occurring biological entities con-3http://search.cpan.org/?acoburnTag name Tag description Tag typeBIO Biological entity PredefinedNP Base noun phrase PredefinedVB Verbal unit PredefinedIN Preposition POSCC Coordinating conjunction POSTO to POSPPC Punctuation comma POSPRP Possessive 2nd determiner POSDET Determiner POSPOS Possessive POSTable 1: Main tags used in the systemnected by a verb which specifies the action type of theinteraction.
Thus, a constraint is applied that only sen-tences satisfying form ?BioEntity A ?
Verb ?
BioEn-tity B?
will be preserved as candidate sentences to befurther processed in the system.
It is possible that thepresence of two entities in different sentence structuresimplies a relationship.
However, this work assumes theunderlying co-occurrence of two concepts and a verb inthe interest of improving the classification accuracy.The obtained candidate sentences are split into train-ing and testing sets.
The training set is used to ex-tract the representative patterns of biological interac-tions.
The testing set is prepared for identifying sen-tences that evidently describe biological interactions.5 Interaction pattern extraction5.1 PATRICIA treesThe method we propose to extract interaction patternsfrom candidate sentences is based on the use of PATRI-CIA trees (Morrison, 1968).
A PATRICIA tree usespath compression by grouping common sequences intonodes.
This structure provides an efficient way of stor-ing values while maintaining the lookup time for a keyof O(N).
It has been applied to many large informationretrieval problems (Chien, 1997; Chen et al, 1998).In our work, a PATRICIA tree is used for the firsttime to facilitate the automatic extraction of interactionpatterns.
All training sentences are inserted and storedin a generic PATRICIA tree from which the commonpatterns of POS tags can be efficiently stored and thetree structure used to compute relevant usage statistics.5.2 Potential pattern extractionPatterns of straightforward biological interactions arefrequently encountered in a range of actual sentences.Conversely, vague relationships or complex interac-tions patterns are seldom repeated.
Therefore, the135premise of this work is that there is a set of frequentlyoccurring interaction patterns that matches a majorityof stated facts about molecular biology.
In this work, abiological interaction pattern is defined as follows:Definition 5.1.
A biological interaction pattern bipis a sequence of tags defined in Table 1 that captures anaggregate view of the description of certain types of bi-ological interactions based on the consistently repeatedoccurrences of this sequence of tags in different inter-action sentences.
BIP = {bip1, bip2, ?
?
?
, bipk} repre-sents the set of biological interaction patterns.We first extract potential interaction patterns bypopulating a PATRICIA tree using training sentences.Every node in the tree contains one or more systemtags, which is the preceding tag sequence of its descen-dant nodes in each sentence.
Every sentence is com-posed of a path of system tags from the root to a leaf.Hence, we propose that the sequence of system tagsthat can be formed from traversing the nodes of the treeis a potential pattern of biological interactions.
At thesame time, the occurrence frequency of each pattern isalso retrieved from the traversal of tree nodes.A predefined frequency threshold fmin is used asa constraint to filter out patterns that occur less thanfmin times.
It has been demonstrated that if an interac-tion is well recognized, it will be consistently repeated(Blaschke et al, 1999; Ono et al, 2001).
The general-ization and the usability of patterns can be controlled bytuning fmin.
Further, some filtering rules are adaptedto control the form of a pattern and enhance the qualityof the discovered patterns, such as if a pattern ends witha tag IN, VB, CC or TO, the pattern will be rejected.Flexibility in setting this threshold can be applied tomeet special demands.
Algorithm 1 shows our patternlearning method which has a time complexity of O(n)in the size of candidate sentences, n.Algorithm 1 Patricia-Tree-based Extraction of Biolog-ical Interaction PatternsInput: Candidate Sentences CS ?
Biological text; a prede-fined threshold fmin; a set of filtering rules FROutput: BIP : Set of biological interaction patternsBIP ?
?
; PT ?
?
//PT : Patricia Triefor all sentences s ?
CS doPT ?
Insert(s) //Populating Patricia Treefor all nodes ni ?
PT dobipi ?
Pattern(ni) //Concatenating tags in nodesfrom root to ni, which is a potential patternif Count(bipi) ?
fmin and bipi does not meet FRthen//Count(bipi) returns No.
of occurrences of bipi;BIP ?
bipi5.3 Interaction verb miningAlthough the obtained patterns are derived from thecandidate sentences possessing the form ?BioEntity A?
Verb ?
BioEntity B?, some of them may not containfacts about biological interactions.
This is possible ifthe action verbs do not describe an interaction.
Quite afew verbs, such as ?report?, ?believe?, and ?discover?,only serve a narrative discourse purpose.
Therefore,mining the correct interaction verbs becomes an impor-tant step in the automatic discovery of patterns.
We de-cided to perform the method applied in (Huang et al,2004) to mine a list of interaction verbs.
This will beused to further improve the relevance of achieved pat-terns by filtering out patterns formed by the sentencesin which the action verbs are not on the list.6 Interaction sentence identificationOnce the biological interaction patterns are obtained,we perform interaction sentence identification on test-ing sentences.
For our work, they are partitioned intotwo sets: interaction sentences which explicitly discussinteractions between entities, and non-interaction sen-tences which do not describe interactions, or merelyimply some vague relationships between entities.
Thetask of interaction sentence identification is treated as aclassification problem to differentiate between interac-tion sentences and non-interaction sentences.6.1 Pattern matching scoringWe first perform pattern matching by iteratively apply-ing the interaction patterns to each testing sentence.This is done using sequence alignment which calculatesthe degree of the similarity of a sentence to an inter-action pattern.
Since patterns capture various ways ofexpressing interactions among sentences, a high simi-larity between an interaction sentence and a pattern isexpected.
Therefore, we conjecture that the alignmentscores can be used to discriminate some type of inter-action sentences from other types of sentences.The scoring scheme involved in the pattern match-ing consists of penalties for introducing gaps, match re-wards and mismatch penalties for different system tagpairs.
Table 2 presents an example scoring scheme formain tags.
Penalties and rewards are denoted respec-tively by negative and positive values.As a variation of global alignment, an end-space freealignment algorithm is implemented to facilitate thealignment between patterns and testing sentences.
Theshortest pattern is always preferred for a sentence incase that same alignment score is achieved by multiple136Tag Gap Match MismatchBIO -10 +8 -3NP -8 +6 -3VB -7 +7 -3IN -6 +5 -1CC -6 +5 -1TO -1 +5 -1PPC -1 +3 -1PRP -1 +3 -1DET -1 +3 -1POS -1 +3 -1Table 2: An alignment scoring scheme for system tagspatterns.
As a result, each sentence is assigned to itsmost appropriate pattern along with a maximum align-ment score.
Therefore, an interaction sentence will behighlighted with a high alignment score by its mostsimilar interaction pattern, while a non-interaction sen-tence will be characterized by a low alignment scoreindicating rejections by all patterns.
Essentially, thisprocedure can be seen as a variation of the well-knownk Nearest Neighbors classification method, with k = 1.6.2 Performance evaluationWe then evaluate whether the alignment scores can beused to classify the testing sentences.
We have pro-posed two independent evaluation measures: statisticalanalysis (SA) and classification accuracy (AC).SA measures whether the scoring difference be-tween the mean of interaction sentences and the meanof non-interaction sentences is statistically significant.If the difference is significant, there will be a tendencythat interaction sentences outscore non-interaction sen-tences in alignment.
Hence, it would be reliable touse alignment scores to classify testing sentences.
Al-though non-interaction sentences could come from thesame documents as interaction sentences and discussconcepts that are associated with the target interac-tions, we assume that interaction sentences and non-interaction sentences are two independent samples.The statistical two-sample z test (Freund and Per-les, 2006) is performed with the null hypothesis thatthere is no scoring difference between the means ofinteraction and non-interaction sentences.
A compar-atively large z will lead to the rejection of the nullhypothesis.
Naturally, the increase of z value will in-crease the difference between the means and thereforeconceptually keep pushing the overall scoring distrib-utions of two samples further away from each other.Consequently, interaction sentences can be separatedfrom non-interaction sentences according to alignmentscores.
In reality, the distinction between interactionand non-interaction sentences is not absolute.
Thus,the scoring distributions of two samples can only bedistanced by a certain maximum value of z dependingon the scoring scheme applied in pattern matching.Conversely, AC measures the proportion of correctlyclassified testing sentences, including both interactionand non-interaction sentences, to the total testing sen-tences.
An appropriate threshold T is determined forobtained alignment scores to differentiate between in-teraction and non-interaction sentences, and to facili-tate the calculation of classification accuracy.It is not possible to evaluate the performance withoutcorrectly pre-labeled testing sentences.
We decided tomanually classify the testing sentences in advance byassigning each sentence an appropriate label of inter-action or non-interaction.
This work was done by twoindependent experts, both with Ph.D. degrees in mole-cular biology or a related discipline.6.3 Scoring scheme optimizationThe scoring scheme applied in pattern matching has acrucial impact on the performance of interaction sen-tence identification.
An interesting problem is whetherthere exists an optimal scoring scheme covering thecosts of gap, match and mismatch for different sys-tem tags in the pattern matching alignment, which isdestined to achieve the best performance on classify-ing testing sentences.
To the best of our knowledge,no efforts have been made to investigate this problem.Instead, an empirical or arbitrary scoring scheme wasadopted in previous research for the pairwise align-ments (Huang et al, 2004; Hakenberg et al, 2005).
Wehave proved that the problem is NP-hard by reducing awell-known NP-hard problem 3-SAT to this problem.The proof is not presented in this work.A genetic algorithm (GA) is used as a heuristicmethod to optimize parameters of the scoring schemefor sentence classification.
The costs of penalties andrewards for different system tags are encoded by inte-ger values within two predefined ranges: [-50, 0) and(0, 50], and assembled as a potential solution of scor-ing scheme, which consists of 30 parameters coveringthe costs for tags in the alignment as listed in Table 2.The two evaluation measures SA and AC are used asthe fitness function for GA respectively with the goalof maximizing z value or classification accuracy.GA is set up to evolve for 100 generations, each ofwhich consists of a population of 100 potential solu-tions of scoring scheme.
GA starts with a randomly137generated population of 100 potential solutions andproceeds until 100 generations are reached.
The num-ber of generations and the population size are decidedwith consideration of the runtime cost of evaluating thefitness function, which requires running the scoring al-gorithm with each sentence.
A large number of gener-ations or a large population size would incur an expen-sive runtime cost of evaluation.In addition, we further divide the labeled set of can-didate sentences into two subsets: The first dataset isused to optimize parameters of the scoring scheme,while the second dataset, testing set, is used to test theachieved scheme on the task of sentence classification.7 Results and evaluation7.1 DatasetOur experiments have been conducted on Genia cor-pus (v3.02) 4, the largest, publicly available corpus inmolecular biology domain.
It consists of 2,000 biolog-ical research paper abstracts and is intended to coverbiological reactions concerning transcription factors inhuman blood cells.
The information of sentence seg-mentation, word tokenization, POS tagging and biolog-ical term annotation is also encoded in the corpus.7.2 Biological text preprocessing resultsEvaluated using the inherently equipped annotation in-formation, our system achieves nearly 99% accuracyon segmenting sentences.
Further, it obtains an overallPOS tagging accuracy of 91.0% on 364,208 individ-ual words.
We noticed that the tagging information en-coded in Genia corpus is not always consistent through-out the whole corpus, thus introducing detrimental ef-fects on the tagging performance.
Also, consideringthat the tagger is parameterized according to the gen-eral English domain, porting this tagger to the biologydomain is accompanied by some loss in performance.The system reaches an F-score of 0.705 on annotat-ing all biological terms including both multi-word andsingle word terms.
After performing text chunking, thesystem produces a set of candidate sentences.
We fur-ther perform text chunking on Genia corpus based onits encoded annotations and use the resulting set of sen-tences for the subsequent experiments to provide a goldstandard to which results produced based on our systemannotations can be compared.
Table 3 presents somestatistics of the preprocessed dataset.
For each type ofannotations, we randomized the candidate sentence set4http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA/and chose 12,525 candidate sentences as the trainingset to extract biological interaction patterns.
The restof candidate sentences are prepared as the testing set.Attributes Genia Our systemTotal preprocessed sentences 18,545 18,355Candidate sentences 16,272 17,525Training set sentences 12,525 12,525Testing set sentences 6,020 5,000Table 3: Statistics of experimental dataset7.3 Interaction pattern extraction resultsfmin = 5 is used to filter out the potential patternsthat appear less than 5 times in the training set.
Eval-uated by domain experts, lists of 300 interaction verbsand 700 non-interaction verbs are obtained from 12,525training sentences with Genia annotations.
Inflectionalvariants of the verbs are also added into the lists.Refined by the filtering rules and the interactionverbs, a final set of representative patterns of biologicalinteractions are obtained from Algorithm 1.
We per-formed our proposed pattern learning method on train-ing sentences of both the GENIA and our own anno-tations.
There are respectively 241 and 329 potentialpatterns.
Of these, 209 and 302 were extracted.
Inter-estingly, only 97 extracted patterns are common to bothannotation schemes.Table 4 lists the 10 most frequent interaction patternsbased on Genia annotations.
For instance, a trainingsentence conforming to the second pattern is ?The ex-pression of the QR gene is regulated by the transcrip-tion factor AP-1.?
(MEDLINE: 96146856).Pattern count Pattern264 BIO VB BIO IN BIO261 NP IN BIO VB IN BIO182 NP IN BIO VB BIO162 BIO IN BIO VB IN BIO160 BIO VB IN BIO IN BIO143 NP IN BIO VB IN NP IN BIO142 NP VB IN BIO VB BIO138 PRP VB IN BIO VB BIO126 BIO VB NP IN BIO IN BIO121 NP IN BIO VB NP IN BIOTable 4: Extracted Biological Interaction Patterns7.4 Interaction sentence identification resultsSince the total testing sentence set is large, we decidedto randomly extract 400 sentences from it as the sam-ple set for our task.
The 400 sentences were manu-138Figure 1: AC comparison between two measuresally pre-labeled into two classes: interaction and non-interaction.
Further, a subset of 300 testing sentenceswas used by GA to optimize parameters of the scor-ing scheme, while the remaining 100 sentences wereprepared to test the achieved scheme on sentence clas-sification.
The distribution of class labels of the samplesentences is shown in Table 5.Class label 300 sentences 100 sentencesNo.
% No.
%Interaction 158 52.67 53 53Non-interaction 142 47.33 47 47Table 5: Class distribution of sample sentences7.4.1 Comparison between two measuresWe applied the evaluation measures, SA and AC,respectively to the subset of 300 testing sentences asthe fitness function for GA, and recorded the scoringscheme of every generation resulted from GA.
Figure 1presents the distribution of achieved classification ac-curacy in terms of each scoring scheme optimized byGA.
This comparison is done with respect to the gener-ation and evaluated on 300 testing sentences using theannotations from the Genia corpus.The achieved classification accuracy for AC gen-erally outperforms the classification accuracy derivedby SA.
It reaches its highest classification accuracy80.33% from the 91th generation.
Therefore, AC isconsidered more efficient with the system and becomesour final choice of fitness function for GA.7.4.2 Results of sentence identificationGA results in an optimized performance on the 300sentences.
It also results in an optimized scoringscheme along with its associated scoring threshold T ,which are then applied together to the other 100 test-ing sentences.
Table 6 and 7 present the system perfor-mance on the two sets respectively to both annotations.Experimental Genia Our systemResults Interaction Non Interaction NonPrecision 0.757 0.887 0.704 0.702Recall 0.928 0.665 0.761 0.640F-score 0.834 0.750 0.731 0.670Overall AC(%) 80.33 70.33Table 6: Performance on 300 testing sentencesExperimental Genia Our systemResults Interaction Non Interaction NonPrecision 0.739 0.762 0.676 0.697Recall 0.792 0.723 0.755 0.638F-score 0.765 0.742 0.713 0.666Overall AC(%) 75.96 70.00Table 7: Performance on 100 testing sentencesTable 6 shows that when using the Genia annota-tions the system achieves an 0.834 F-score in identify-ing interaction sentences and an overall AC of 80.33%,which is much higher than the proportion of either in-teraction or non-interaction sentences in the 300 sen-tence subset.
This indicates that the system performswell on both classes.
In 100 generations GA is not ableto evolve a scoring scheme that leads to an AC above80.33%.
Moreover, our system annotations achievea lower performance than Genia annotations.
We at-tribute the difference to the accuracy loss of our systemannotations in the preprocessing steps as inaccurate an-notations will lead to inappropriate patterns, thus harm-ing the performance of sentence identification.
For Ge-nia annotations, the performance on the 100 testing sen-tences suggests an overfitting problem.There are a number of preprocessing steps that affectthe final classification performance.
However, even as-suming an ideal preprocessing of the unstructured text,our method relies on the assumption that all interac-tion sentences are articulated by a set of POS patternsthat are distinct to all other types of sentences.
Themanual annotation of the training/testing set was a dif-ficult task, so it is reasonable to assume that this willalso be difficult for the classifier.
The use of passivevoice and the common use of comma splicing withinpatterns makes sentence-level classification an espe-cially difficult task.
Another source of interactions thatour system cannot identify are implied and assume adeeper semantic understanding of the concepts them-139selves.
Other sentences are long enough that the inter-action itself is merely a secondary purpose to anotheridea.
All of these factors pose interesting challengesfor future development of this work.Moreover, we also experimented with 10 empiricalscoring schemes derived from previous experiments onthe 300 sentences respectively, including the scheme inthe Table 2.
Several fixed thresholds were attempted forobtained alignment scores to differentiate between in-teraction and non-interaction sentences.
Without usingGA to optimize parameters of the scoring scheme, thebest performance of 10 empirical schemes is an overallAC of 65.67%, which is outperformed at the 3rd gen-eration of the GA optimization with Genia annotations.7.5 System performance comparisonWithin the framework of our system, we further con-ducted experiments on the same dataset for sentenceidentification using interaction patterns generated byanother pattern generating algorithm (PGA) (Huang etal., 2004) in order to compare with the performance ofpatterns obtained by our pattern learning method.In our implementation, PGA iterates over all pairsof candidate sentences in the training set and calculatesthe best alignment for each pair in terms of the costscheme of gap penalties proposed (Huang et al, 2004).Each consensus sequence from the optimal alignmentof each pair forms a pattern.
The filter rules proposedare also applied.
PGA has a time complexity of O(n2)in the size of candidate sentences, n. Hence, our pro-posed pattern learning method is much more efficientwhen dealing with large collections of biological texts.PGA produces a large number of patterns, even withfmin = 5 and other filtering criteria.
There are 37,319common patterns between two types of annotations.Attributes Genia Our systemPotential patterns (fmin = 5) 476,600 387,302Extracted patterns (fmin = 5) 176,082 88,800Table 8: Pattern extraction results of PGAIn order to make a direct comparison, we decided toexperiment with the same number of interaction pat-terns.
For Genia annotations, we chose the most fre-quent 209 patterns generated by PGA to compare withthe 209 patterns by our method.
For our system annota-tions, two sets of 302 patterns are employed.
Further, itis found that there are 96 common patterns between thetwo sets of 209 patterns for Genia annotations, and 153common patterns between the two sets of 302 patternsfor our system annotations.
Table 9 and 10 present theresults of sentence identification of PGA.
The resultsshow that patterns generated by PGA do not performas well as patterns obtained by our method.Experimental Genia Our systemResults Interaction Non Interaction NonPrecision 0.721 0.869 0.663 0.699Recall 0.918 0.606 0.785 0.556F-score 0.808 0.714 0.719 0.619Overall AC(%) 77.00 67.67Table 9: Performance of PGA on 300 testing sentencesExperimental Genia Our systemResults Interaction Non Interaction NonPrecision 0.664 0.796 0.698 0.635Recall 0.849 0.574 0.566 0.766F-score 0.745 0.667 0.625 0.694Overall AC(%) 71.98 66.00Table 10: Performance of PGA on 100 testing sentences8 Conclusion and future workIn this paper, a novel approach is presented to auto-matically extract the representative patterns of biologi-cal interactions, which are used to detect sentences thatdescribe biological interactions.
We conducted the ex-periments on our designed system based on the Ge-nia corpus.
By means of a genetic algorithm, the sys-tem achieves an 0.834 F-score using Genia annotationsand an 0.731 F-score using our system annotations inidentifying interaction sentences by evaluating 300 sen-tences.
By applying the optimized scoring scheme toanother set of 100 sentences, the system achieves com-parable results for both types of annotations.
Further-more, by comparing with another pattern generating al-gorithm, we infer that our proposed method is more ef-ficient in producing patterns to identify interaction sen-tences.In our future work, we would like to employ the ob-tained interaction patterns to guide the extraction ofspecific interactions.
The matching between patternsand sentences will be performed and the matched partsof each sentence will be extracted as candidate interac-tions.
Further reasoning processes can be performedby means of available biological ontologies, such asUMLS Semantic Network (Mccray and Bodenreider,2002) and Gene Ontology (Consortium, 2001), to in-fer new relations from the initial interactions.
Suchprocesses can be employed to derive additional biolog-ical knowledge from existing knowledge, or test for bi-ological consistency of the newly entered data.140ReferencesChristian Blaschke, Miguel A. Andrade, Christos Ouzounis,and Alfonso Valencia.
1999.
Automatic extraction of bi-ological information from scientific text: Protein-proteininteractions.
In Proceedings of the Seventh InternationalConference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology,pages 60?67.
AAAI Press.Razvan Bunescu, Ruifang Ge, Rohit J Kate, Edward M Mar-cotte, Raymond J Mooney, Arun K Ramani, and Yuk WWong.
2005.
Comparative experiments on learning infor-mation extractors for proteins and their interactions.
Arti-ficial Intelligence in Medicine, 33(2):139?155.Keh-Jiann Chen, Wen Tsuei, and Lee-Feng Chien.
1998.Pat-trees with the deletion function as the learning devicefor linguistic patterns.
In Proceedings of the 17th inter-national conference on Computational linguistics, pages244?250, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Lee-Feng Chien.
1997.
Pat-tree-based keyword extrac-tion for chinese information retrieval.
SIGIR Forum,31(SI):50?58.Gene Ontology Consortium.
2001.
Creating the gene ontol-ogy resource: design and implementation.
Genome Re-search, 11(8):1425?1433.Anna Divoli and Teresa K. Attwood.
2005.
Bioie: extract-ing informative sentences from the biomedical literature.Bioinformatics, 21(9):2138?2139.John E. Freund and Benjamin M. Perles.
2006.
ModernElementary Statistics.
Prentice Hall.Jorg Hakenberg, Conrad Plake, Ulf Leser, Harald Kirsch,and Dietrich Rebholz-Schuhmann.
2005.
Lll?05 chal-lenge: Genic interaction extraction with alignments andfinite state automata.
In Proceedings of Learning Lan-guage in Logic Workshop (LLL?05) at ICML, page 38C45,Bonn, Germany.Minlie Huang, Xiaoyan Zhu, Yu Hao, Donald G. Payan,Kunbin Qu, and Ming Li.
2004.
Discovering patterns toextract protein-protein interactions from full texts.
Bioin-formatics, 20:3604?3612.Hyunchul Jang, Jaesoo Lim, Joon-Ho Lim, Soo-Jun Park,Kyu-Chul Lee, and Seon-Hee Park.
2006.
Finding the ev-idence for protein-protein interactions from pubmed ab-stracts.
Bioinformatics, 22(14):e220?e226.Sittichai Jiampojamarn, Nick Cercone, and Vlado Kes?elj.2005.
Biological Named Entity Recognition using N-grams and Classification Methods.
In Proceedings of theConference Pacific Association for Computational Lin-guistics, PACLING?05, Tokyo, Japan.Jiao Li, Xian Zhang, Yu Hao, Minlie Huang, and XiaoyanZhu.
2005.
Learning domain-specific knowledge fromcontext?thuir at trec2005 genomics track.
In Proceed-ings of 14th Text Retrireval Conference (TREC2005),Gaithersburg, USA.Alexa T. Mccray and Olivier Bodenreider.
2002.
A concep-tual framework for the biomedical domain.
In Semanticsof Relationships, Kluwer, pages 181?198.
Kluwer Acad-emic Publishers.Andrei Mikheev.
2002.
Periods, capitalized words, etc.Comput.
Linguist., 28(3):289?318.Donald R. Morrison.
1968.
Patricia ?
Practical AlgorithmTo Retrieve Information Coded in Alphanumeric.
Jour-nal of the ACM, 15(4):514?534.Toshihide Ono, Haretsugu Hishigaki, Akira Tanigami, andToshihisa Takagi.
2001.
Automated extraction of infor-mation on protein-protein interactions from the biologicalliterature.
Bioinformatics, 17(2):155?161.Conrad Plake, Jorg Hakenberg, and Ulf Leser.
2005.
Learn-ing patterns for information extraction from free text.
InProceedings of AKKD 2005, Karlsruhe, Germany.Lance Ramshaw and Mitch Marcus.
1995.
Text chunkingusing transformation-based learning.
In Proceedings ofthe Third Workshop on Very Large Corpora, pages 82?94,Somerset, New Jersey.Soumya Raychaudhuri.
2006.
Computational Text Analy-sis: For Functional Genomics and Bioinformatics.
Ox-ford University Press.Andre Skusa, Alexander Ruegg, and Jacob Kohler.
2005.Extraction of biological interaction networks from scien-tific literature.
Brief Bioinform, 6(3):263?276.141
