Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Workshop on Language Technology and Resources for Cultural Heritage,Social Sciences, Humanities, and Education ?LaTeCH ?
SHELT&R 2009, pages 1?9,Athens, Greece, 30 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsContent Analysis of Museum Documentation with a TransdisciplinaryPerspectiveGu?nther Goerz, Martin ScholzUniversity of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Computer Science Department (8)Erlangen, Germanygoerz@informatik.uni-erlangen.deAbstractIn many cases, museum documentationconsists of semi-structured data recordswith free text fields, which usually referto contents of other fields, in the samedata record, as well as in others.
Most ofthese references comprise of person andplace names, as well as time specifica-tions.
It is, therefore, important to rec-ognize those in the first place.
We reporton techniques and results of partial pars-ing in an ongoing project, using a largedatabase on German goldsmith art.
Thetexts are encoded according to the TEIguidelines and expanded by structured de-scriptions of named entities and time spec-ifications.
These are building blocks forevent descriptions, at which the next stepis aiming.
The identification of named en-tities allows the data to be linked with var-ious resources within the domain of cul-tural heritage and beyond.
For the lattercase, we refer to a biological database andpresent a solution in a transdisciplinaryperspective by means of the CIDOC Con-ceptual Reference Model (CRM).1 Specific Goals of Content AnalysisWhen we speak of museum documentation, weaddress a wide variety of document types.
Firstof all, there are acquisition and inventory lists orindex cards, which contain more or less detailedrecords of museum objects.
Often these are ac-companied by photographs, restoration records,and further archival records.
If curators prepareexhibitions, usually they provide catalogs by com-piling data from sources, such as those just men-tioned, and by contributing short articles on the ex-hibits.
Last but not least there are scholarly mono-graphs on museum objects.With the introduction of information technol-ogy in museums and cultural heritage institu-tions, such records have been stored in (relational)database systems and content management sys-tems.
At the beginning ?
with the exceptionof bibliographic records ?
there were no meta-data standards at all in the museum world.
Sincethe 1990s, many metadata schemata have beenproposed for the field of cultural heritage, somewith very detailed classification features for spe-cific object types1.
There is still an active dis-cussion about metadata schemata and their stan-dardisation, as can be seen with recent proposalsfor CDWA Lite, museumdat and their combination(Stein and Coburn, 2008).Today, access to museum documentation via theWorld Wide Web has become a matter of course,in particular, if the documentation has been theresult of publicly funded research projects.
Nat-urally, printed editions are still a very importantmedium of publication.
However, in many casesthe data are too voluminous, which means onlyabridged versions are published in print, whilethe full data are available only in digital form.Web access allows many means to retrieve andprint the data, with very little cost involved.
Us-ing controlled language defined in terminologiesand formal ontologies, different forms of ?intelli-gent search?
come within reach as well as inter-active evaluation and visualisation methods.
Butit is not only access to the data alone; interactiv-ity opens up possibilites for Wiki-style annotationand scholarly communication, as well as forumsfor the general public.
Furthermore, the technol-ogy provides methods to link the data with otherresources, e.g.
authority files containing biograph-ical or geographical data.1cf.
Getty Foundation?s Metadata Crosswalk http://www.getty.edu/research/conducting_research/standards/intrometadata/crosswalks.html ;visited 03.12.2008.1A common situation in museum documenta-tion is characterized by the fact that it is cen-tered around museum objects, i.e.
there is adatabase system or content management system,which contains structured descriptions of museumobjects and further information about their cre-ators, provenance, use, and so forth, accordingto given descriptive and administrative metadataschemata.
Besides fields in such data records en-forcing (more or less strictly defined) data types,e.g.
for inventory numbers, there are free textfields which contain important background infor-mation about persons, objects, materials, stylisticfestures, etc.
without any further tagging.
Ba-sically, the free text fields are open for any kindof information which cannot be expressed in thestrictly defined parts of the schema.
Therefore,overall, the given data records at best provide asemi-structured representation.The free text fields and their relations to otherfields, in particular, indicate a clear need for con-tent analysis.
Firstly, named entitities must beidentified, in particular person and geographicplace names.
For instance, there may be a datafield for the creator of a work of art and anotherone for the place where this work was created, ad-ditionally one or more free text fields which talkabout the artist?s family relations, when he came tothe mentioned place and how long he stayed there,etc.
As this example indicates, at least a secondtype of linguistic expressions, time specificationsin a variety of forms, ought to be recognized.
Inthe future, we would like to identify event descrip-tions and how they are related among each other,for which the recognition of named entitites andtime specifications is a first step.In the following sections we describe our ap-proach to address these problems.
The next sec-tion outlines characteristic features of the datawith a reflection on their typicality.
Section threeis the central technical part presenting the shallowtext analysis techniques we use ?
word class tag-ging, recognition of temporal specifications, placeand person names ?
and the utilization of nameauthorities for lexical and semantic enrichment.In the fourth section we show how the resultsachieved so far can be used to construct event-based shallow semantic representations related tothe CIDOC CRM.
Furthermore, the CRM is alsothe key to transdisciplinary approaches in museumdocumentation as outlined in the final section withan example between biology and cultural history.2 Characteristics of the DataWe are working2 with data which resulted from aproject on goldsmith art in Nuremberg, executedat the German National Museum, providing de-scriptions of more than 6700 objects, 2290 artists,many locations, etc.
Furthermore, with the mu-seum?s content management system we can accessmany more data records on sculptures and paint-ings ?
with a particular emphasis on the work ofAlbrecht Du?rer ?
up to 1800.
The latter corporawere accessed primarily to verify the general use-fulness of the approach that will be presented inthe following sections.For many projects in the field of cultural her-itage in Germany, a condition for public fund-ing has been to use the MIDAS3 data schema(Heusinger, 1989) in combination with a spe-cific database implementation (HiDA).
MIDASdefines a framework of record types with appro-priate properties for terms (thesauri), time, place,artists, other persons and organizations, objects,content and signs, events, sources, and adminis-trative data.
The goal of MIDAS was to establisha de facto standard based on the current documen-tation practice in museums.
Depending on whatis to be documented, the appropriate record typescan be selected.
HiDA is a data administration sys-tem, which provides a graphical user interface fordata input, editing, and search; it stores the recordsnot in a database system, but in a system of files,one for each type, in a proprietary format.
Forthis reason and problems in handling the user in-terface, many HiDA-encoded data are now beingconverted to an XML representation.
For the freetexts, we decided to follow the encoding rules ofthe Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) (Ide and Vero-nis, 1995)4 for text bodies.The actual encoding of the XML-transformeddata sets is still very close to HiDA as far asthe ?classes?
and properties are concerned.
Cur-rently, the data are in the process of being trans-formed to the emerging museumdat/CDWA Lite2Research project ?WissKI ?
Wissenschaftliche Kom-munikationsInfrastruktur?
; funding provided by the GermanResearch Council (DFG)3Acronym for ?Marburger Informations-,Dokumentations- und Administrations-System?, not tobe confused with the MIDAS heritage standard in the UK.4Website: http://www.tei-c.org/index.xml ;visited 15.12.20082standard (Stein and Coburn, 2008)5, which in turnis compatible with CIDOC?s Conceptual Refer-ence Model (Doerr, 2003)6.
The CRM is the for-mal reference ontology, which defines the con-ceptual background for the semantic representa-tions resulting from content analysis.
We refer tothe CRM as a formally defined reference ontologybecause with the ?Erlangen CRM?7 we providedis a description logic version of the latest stan-dard (ISO 21127:2009), implemented in OWL-DL(Goerz et al, 2008).As for the content of the free text fields, the textscontain well-formed sentences in the linguisticsense, although in some cases, one can find ellipticformulations in telegraphic style.
In most cases,the texts refer to defined data record fields (per-sons, creatorship, object properties, bibliographicdata), providing additional information, for whichthere is no other place in the schema.
A great dealof the texts talk about family and other relationsbetween persons, about creatorship, techniques,actions of the mentioned persons other than thecreation of the artwork, and the general culturalcontext.
As in early modern German there is agreat orthographic variation even in writing per-son and place names, many of the texts suggestdisambiguations of different kinds.
Nevertheless,there are still many writing variants of named en-tities.
Furthermore, many texts contain quotationsfrom reference works, some of which are too oldto obey the actual orthographic standards.It is important to notice that the actual data wehave to deal with are nevertheless a typical ex-ample of the state of the art of documentation inmany cultural heritage institutions.
Hence, thetechniques of content analysis and annotation pre-sented in the following will be of a general utilityin many similar projects.3 Content Analysis: Shallow Parsing andSemantic RepresentationThe texts contained in the free text fields are en-coded with the TEI Lite tag set, supplemented by5cf.
slide set by Georg Hohmann: http://www8.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/IMMD8/Services/transdisc/cidoc2008_hohmann.pdf; visited 03.12.20086The actual version of the ISO standard and a lot ofaccompanying materials can be retrieved from http://cidoc.ics.forth.gr/ ; visited 03.12.2008.7http://www8.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/IMMD8/Services/cidoc-crm/ ; visited 05.02.2009tags of the module namesdates for person andplace names.
For processing, all texts in the freetext fields of a MIDAS file ?
e.g., the ?object?
filecontaining all object descriptions in the ?database??
are merged in a single multi-text TEI file.
Eachtext from a data field is represented as a <text>element where the text proper without further an-notations is contained in its subordinate <body>element.
The association between the TEI text el-ements and the orginal MIDAS data fields is as-sured by unique XML identifiers in xml:id at-tributes.
The ?raw?
text data are transformed au-tomatically into the initial TEI representation in arather straightforward way by a script.
No furtherinternal structuring is provided at this stage; anno-tations are added by subsequent processing steps.Shallow parsing for place names and time spec-ifications is based on sets of chunk rules imple-mented with the Definite Clause Grammar (DCG)formalism8 which are executed by Prolog.
Thereare grammars for person and place names and fortime specifications; these sets of grammar rulesdefine three partial ?parsers?.
For the three parsersthere is only one pass, and there is in principle norestriction on the order in which they are applied.The parsing results of each of the parsers are rep-resented as feature structures, which are then con-verted to TEI tags and inserted into the file by aseparate software component.
At this stage, thereis no recognition and resolution of anaphoric ref-erences, such as pronouns.
In a second and inde-pendent pass, a lookup of person and place namesin Name Authority files is executed and the resultsare collected in local files.
There is no filtering ap-plied to the lookup because, at this point, no spe-cial knowledge about these resources is available.3.1 TaggingFirst of all, the texts encoded conforming to theTEI guidelines are annotated with word class tagsand lemmata (base forms) by a POS tagger.
Lem-matisation is very useful in languages with a richinflectional system, such as German.
For POS tag-ging, we use the Stuttgart TreeTagger9 with theSTTS tagset which provides categories for Ger-man words and delimiters.8based on previous work by (Tantzen, 2004).9Institute for Automatic Language Processing of theUniversity of Stuttgart.
The tagger is available at http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/corplex/TreeTagger/DecisionTreeTagger.html ; visited 03.12.2008.3The resulting TEI tags express morphosyntac-tic descriptions.
Of particular interest are the tags<w> for encoding words and <c> for individ-ual punctuation marks which are very well suitedfor encoding tokens: Both can accept an attributetype for the determination of the word or charac-ter class.
Lemmata are encoded with the attributelemma.3.2 Time SpecificationsThe ?temporal?
grammar/parser recognizes abroad variety of temporal expressions built upfrom days, weeks, months, seasons of the year,years, decades, and centuries.10 Time specifica-tions may be given as absolute or relative.Absolute time specifications describe uniquetime points or intervals on the time line, such ascalendar dates (e.g.
28.
August 1749) and open orclosed time spans (e.g.
bis 1832, up to 1832).
Fur-thermore, modifying particles are recognized, e.g.Mitte 1749 (midyear 1749) or Ende Ma?rz 1832(end of March 1832).To determine the missing data in relative timespecifications, such as drei Wochen spa?ter (threeweeks later), a kind of anaphoric resolutionmethod is applied.
Therefore, we keep track ofall occurences of temporal expressions.
For reso-lution, we choose the most recently mentioned atthe appropriate level (day, month, year).3.3 PlacesThe normal case of place specifications in thegoldsmith corpus consists of a geographic placename or a preposition followed by a place name.In some cases there are also enumerations of placenames.
We distinguish between a named entityand the corresponding linguistic phrase.
Namedentities are looked up in a local dictionary whichis built from entries in Name Authorities.Before lexical lookup, a procedure is executedwhich prevents the annotation of lower case wordsas named entities.
It implements the simpleheuristics that ?
even composite ?
named en-tities are designated by words beginning with acapital letter, but not each word beginning with acapital letter is a named entity as in English.
InGerman, a noun must be written with its first letterin upper case.Each named entity is associated with one outof ten geographical types to avoid aggregations of10The actual text corpus does not contain time of day ex-pressions.incompatible types as in die Sta?dte Mu?nchen undBerlin und Finnland (the cities Munich, Berlin andFinland).
On the other hand, certain words suchas city, town, settlement, etc.
are associated withsuch a type (?city?)
to be used as a constraint onsubsequent proper nouns.3.4 PersonsParsing of person names is much more difficult be-cause they are more complex and there is a con-siderably larger variation than with place names.Whereas, usually, composite place names are lex-icalized, this is not a real option for person names.Every person in German speaking countries hasat least one first and one surname, optionallyamended by further forenames, appellations of no-bility or ancestry or generation.
We do not regardtitles and forms of address such as Ko?nig (king)or Herr (Mister) as parts of names ?
in spite ofthe fact that according to German law the title ofDoktor (doctor) is a part of the name.For name parsing, the constituents of names aredivided into four categories: forenames, surnames,copula, and generation appellations.
The class ofcopula subsumes many particles which serve aspredicates of nobility or ancestry, e.g.
von, van deror French/Spanish/Italian de la.
The category ofgeneration appellations contains words and num-berings to distinguish persons with the same name,e.g.
Karl V., Albrecht Du?rer der ?Altere.There are several sources of ambiguities withperson names the grammar has to deal with, aswell w.r.t.
the correct interpretation of their partsas regarding their reference:?
Persons are often referenced not by their fullname, but only by their first or surname.?
Many first names may also occur as sur-names.?
Many surnames are also names of profes-sions or places.?
There are several standards of equal range forthe ordering of name parts.?
The use of a comma to separate surname andfirst name can be confused with an enumera-tion and vice versa.Therefore we use dictionaries for the four cat-egories of name parts.
There are words, whichmay be members of several categories, if there areseveral possibilities of interpretation.
The dictio-naries for generation appellations and copula are4small and have been assembled manually.
Forfirst and surnames, several name lists were com-piled into one dictionary file from lists availablevia Name Authorities and also from the WWW.To recognize person names containing very rarefirst and surnames, as well as writing variantswhich are not contained in the lexicon, we use asystem of syntactic and semantic cues ?
based onstatistical analyses of the texts ?
which indicatethe occurence of a name at a specific location (cf.table).syntax of the trigger Exampleprofession name Goldschmied Samuel Klemmappellation name Frau Marthapreposition relation name mit Meister Silvesterpossessive pron.
rel.
name Seine Tochter Katharinarelation des/der name Tochter des Christian Mahlerrelation von name Sohn von Peter v. Quickelbergrelation : name Lehrling: Lang, Joh.
ChristophTable 1: Rules for person name triggers.
Words to be in-serted for profession, appellation and relation are taken fromhand-made lexica.Statistical analysis of the goldsmith corpus hasgiven clear evidence for three groups of wordswhose occurrence indicates an immediate follow-ing person name: Appellations of professions, ap-pellations plus titles, and relations between per-sons.
A relation between persons is regarded as acue only if certain particles occur immediately be-fore or after it.
The word sequence ?Tochter von?
(daughter of) is a good example of such a cue fora subsequent person name.In a first step, the name parts and the cues arelabelled separately.
In a second pass, whenever acue or a name part is encountered, an algorithm toassemble the parts into complete person names isrun.
It tries to match the current word sequencewith different patterns of name parts which con-stitute valid person names, i.e.
it applies differentfinite state machines11 to the word sequence.
Thelongest sequence recognized by a finite state ma-chine is assumed to be a name (see Table 2).3.5 Name AuthoritiesTo achieve a normalization of appellations, per-son and place names are looked up in name au-thorities.
There are several authorities, none ofwhich can claim completeness, and each has its11Finite State Machines are formal automata which recog-nize regular expression patterns; i.e., both notions are equiv-alent.Pattern Examples Jamnitzers g Jamnitzer IIf+ s Hans Jamnitzerf+ g c s *Hans II von Jamnitzerf+ g s Hans II Jamnitzerf+ c s *Hans von Jamnitzerf+ g Hans IIf+ Hanss , f+ g Jamnitzer, Hans IIs , f+ c *Jamnitzer, Hans vons , f+ g c *Jamnitzer, Hans II vons , f+ Jamnitzer, HansTable 2: Recognized name patterns with examples showingthe name of the goldsmith ?Hans II Jamnitzer?.
s stands forsurname, f for forename, c for copula and g for generationparticle.
The ?+?
sign expresses one or more occurences; theasterisk indicates that the name has been modified to fit thepattern with ?von?.strengths and weaknesses.
Up to now, we haveused the following interfaces ?
however, fur-ther interfaces are in preparation: BGN: Boardon Geographic Names (German places File)12,Diskus ?Geographie-Datei?
(distributed with MI-DAS)13, Orbis Latinus (Graesse)14, Getty TGN(Thesaurus of Geographic Names)15, PKNAD(Person Names) by prometheus e.V.16, and GettyULAN (United List of Artist Names)17There are two modes of use for name authoritiesin the process of named entity recognition:1.
Decision making: The data are used as dic-tionaries for the person name and place nameparsers.2.
Enrichment with metadata in a second phaseonce the named entities are identified.As there are not yet unique formats and inter-12http://earth-info.nga.mil/gns/html/namefiles.htm ; visited 17.12.200813http://museum.zib.de/museumsvokabular/index.php?main=download; visited 17.12.200814http://www.columbia.edu/acis/ets/Graesse/contents.html ; visited 17.12.200815http://www.getty.edu/research/conducting_research/vocabularies/tgn/ ;visited 17.12.200816http://www.prometheus-bildarchiv.de/index.php?id=56\&L=0\&skin=0 ; visited17.12.200817http://www.getty.edu/research/conducting_research/vocabularies/ulan/; visited 17.12.20085faces for the mentioned name authorities, we im-plemented a querying interface for each name au-thority in both modes with the exception of theGetty vocabularies.
These are not used directlyas dictionaries, but only for metadata enrichment,because the data must be retrieved place by placefrom individual web pages due to the lack of anappropriate API.3.5.1 Name Authorities as DictionariesName authorities can be directly accessed throughthe dictionary interfaces of the place and personname parsers.
To accelerate the search for entries,the retrieved data are stored in local dictionaryfiles, one for each name authority.
The dictionaryfiles can be generated either during the recognitionprocess or off-line.
To keep the local data up todate, the generation process should to be repeatedfrom time to time, at least for some of the men-tioned resources.3.5.2 Name Authorities for MetadataHarvestingMetadata harvesting has been implemented as aseparate process; it consists of the search for anno-tations of named entities in the TEI files, of query-ing name authorities and collecting the metadatathrough special interfaces, encoding in an appro-priate format and storing in local files.
We do notrank name authorities and the content of the meta-data; its structure and degree of detail are taken asretrieved.
However, with each data set the list ofIDs of the tagged findings in the TEI file is stored.3.6 TEI-Encoding of Named EntitiesTemporal expressions are encoded with the<date> tag.
For the attributes, the distinction be-tween time spans and time points is represented bythe attributes from and to, or the attribute when,resp.The tag <placeName> is used to anno-tate place expressions as a whole.
To labelthe named entities contained within, the TEImodule namesdates provides six tags accord-ing to its geographical type: <district>,<settlement>, <region>, <country>,<bloc> und <geogName>; for some of themthere may be a refinement by means of the ten ge-ographic types mentioned in 3.3 with the attributetype.For person names, the TEI tag <persName>and several subtags are defined, among which<surname>, <forename>, <nameLink> and<genName> correspond exactly to the name partspresented above.3.7 Evaluation ResultsThe three partial parsers are executed in sequentialorder.
The best results were obtained in the ordertime ?
person ?
place:On the goldsmith corpus with a test set of about2000 word types, a precision of 81.8% and a recallof 72.6% was achieved with the described level ofgranularity, i.e., accounting for the distinction offirst and last names and geographic types.If these distinctions are dropped, as in manyother systems, precision increases to 83.0% andrecall to 82.6%.A separate evaluation of the parsers (in paren-theses: with distinctions) showed for?
time: precision 89.0% and recall 92.1%,?
person: precision 74.4% (71.6%) and recall87.0% (75.5%),?
place: precision 78.9% (69.1%) and recall76.9% (71.7%),Depending on the choice of name authoritiesused for lexicon generation, and due to a high de-gree of ambiguity, too many words may be clas-sified as place names.
For this reason, BGN hasbeen left out, because it led to a considerable de-crease of precision and a slight increase of recall.4 Building Blocks for Event RecognitionWith parsing results for person and place namesand time specifications, we have a first-levelpartial semantic representation of text chunks,which could be combined into larger representa-tion structures.
However, considering the char-acteristics of the given free texts and the state ofthe art in computational linguistics, it would bepresumptuous to aim at a deep semantic analysis.Nevertheless, under the assumption of composi-tionality, i.e., the assumption that semantic rep-resentations of larger units are to be composedfrom those of their parts in a systematic way, itis possible to assemble partial semantic represen-tations.
In particular, we are interested in identi-fying events and the involved actors, objects, andinstruments.
Event recognition in texts has beenan active research area in recent years, in particu-6<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><TEI><teiHeader>...</teiHeader><text><group><text xml:id="kue00020e00029"><body>Er ist offensichtlich identisch mit dem Ornamentstecher<persName xml:id="persName4815108"><forename>Theodor</forename><surname>B.</surname></persName>und stammte wie<persName xml:id="persName6059828"><surname>Bang</surname>,<forename>Hieronymus</forename></persName><placeName type="zone" xml:id="placeName12514145">aus<settlement type="stadt">Osnabr&uuml;ck</settlement></placeName>(Verwandtschaft?)
Kein Eintrag in den Eheb&uuml;chern<date from="1600-01-01" to="1699-12-31" xml:id="date33491090">des 17.
Jhs.</date>,kein Eintrag im Totenbuch St.<placeName type="zone" xml:id="placeName3113238"><district type="stadtteil">Sebald</district></placeName>bzw.<placeName type="zone" xml:id="placeName9131644"><district type="stadtteil">Lorenz</district></placeName>bis<date from="1623-01-01" to="1630-12-31" xml:id="date24591544">1623/30</date>.<date from="1611-01-01" to="1611-12-31" xml:id="date22562823">Von 1611</date>stammt eine von<persName xml:id="persName5006112"><surname>Bang</surname></persName>gestochene Ansicht<placeName type="zone" xml:id="placeName4837279">von<settlement type="stadt">Bamberg</settlement></placeName>.<persName xml:id="persName7446303"><forename>Balthasar</forename> <surname>Keimox</surname></persName>verlegte von ihm eine Folge von12 Stichvorlagen mit reichem Arabeskenwerk.</body></text></group></text></TEI>Figure 1: Parsing result: annotated text in TEI encoding.
(Layout has been rearranged for readability.
)7lar in combination with text mining.18 In previouswork (Fischer et al, 1996; Bu?cher et al, 2002), weaugmented a chart-based chunk parser with an in-cremental construction procedure for (partial) Dis-course Representation Structures (DRSs).
DRSsare semantic representations which contain a listof discourse referents, introduced by named enti-ties or definite noun phrases, and a body, whichconsists of a possibly complex logical form repre-senting the meaning of the given part of speech19.For events, we use a neo-Davidsonian represen-tation, i.e., the corresponding verb is a one-placepredicate whose argument is a discourse referentrepresenting an event, conjoined with binary re-lations for the thematic roles.
For example, thesentence ?Albrecht Du?rer painted a self-portraitin 1500 in Nuremberg?
would get a semantic rep-resentation in which ?
extremely simplified ?e would be the discourse referent for the event,paint(e) the representation of the event, and ac-tor(e,a), object(e,s), time(e,1500), etc.
constitutethe body, where a and s are the discourse referentsfor the artist and the self-portrait, resp.
DRSs arereaching beyond sentence limits and can in prin-ciple be combined into larger and larger discoursestructures.
Therefore, they are appropriate repre-sentations on which reference resolution mecha-nisms, such as those described in (Fischer et al,1996) can be built.
In our current work, a cen-tral activity is to port this method and its imple-mentation to the museum documentation domainand enrich it by collocational analysis as in (Smith,2002).The representation of events is not only an ex-tremely important key to content analysis, but alsothe pivot which connects various objects, persons,places, with each other, making a variety of con-nections explicit, which are implicitly containedin the data fields and free texts of records of dif-ferent types.
It, therefore, becomes an obviousgoal to enrich such relational structures with fur-ther information elements from other cultural her-itage resources ?
beyond name authorities.
In ourparticular application, access to Getty?s Art andArchitecture Thesaurus (AAT), to other museumand collection databases or online auction cata-logs would be obvious.
Unfortunately, many of18To quote just one prominent example, cf.
the TERQAS(Time and Event Recognition for Question Answering)Symposium, 2002, http://www.timeml.org/site/terqas/index.html ; visited 05.02.200919cf.
(Kamp and Reyle, 1993)these resources use idiosyncratic data formats justas MIDAS mentioned above.
At best, they referto a formal representation of their respective do-main, in terms of a so-called ?formal domain on-tology?, a representative hierarchical structure ofconcepts, properties and constraints of the domain.However, to satisfy the desideratum of linking di-verse data collections, an intermediate level of in-teroperability is required.
A well proven approachfor such information integration tasks is to link thedifferent domain ontologies to a generic referenceontology, which contains just the fundamental andmost general concepts and properties for a widevariety of applications.
In fact, for the field ofcultural heritage, CIDOC?s Conceptual ReferenceModel (CRM) is such a reference ontology.
It isworthwhile to notice that, among other things, theCRM emphasizes the event-driven perspective, infact, events are the glue in CRM which connectsall documentation elements.
As a first step, wehave already implemented a generator for CRMinstances from TEI-conformant texts with namedentity annotations.5 Transdisciplinary AspectsComing back to our project on goldsmith art doc-umentation, we recognize clues in the data, whichpoint beyond the domain of cultural history: thereare goblets and centerpieces (epergnes) showingsculptered animals, such as lizards and beetles.Two of the documented objects exhibit a beau-tiful stag beetle, which induced interesting ques-tions about those insects, not only on their icono-graphic significance, but also on their determina-tion and classification in biology, the distributionof species, etc.
This illustrates that there is aneed to connect with further knowledge sources,such as resources from biology, biodiversity re-search, etc.
For example, we may want to con-sult a database such as BIODAT, maintained bythe natural history museum Koenig in Bonn.
Con-sidering the completely different scientific back-ground and the different perspectives in descrip-tion, this task seems to be very ambitious, to saythe least.
Whereas the stag beetle in the foot of thegoblet is described in terms of art history and met-allurgy, we find a completely different descriptionof a pinned stag beetle in the BIODAT data base.We may be lucky to identify it there if we knowthe precise species name in advance, but in manycases, there is a significant chance that the match-8ing task will fail.
At this point in time, we can onlyprovide a sketch in terms of an example how wewould approach this challenge.
But it seems ob-vious if we could find a general way to connect todifferent description systems, we would approachthe long-term goal of an ?epistemic web?.Recent efforts showed that there is in fact away to a solution, indicated by the term ?trans-disciplinarity?
; first results have been presentedat the first meeting of the CIDOC working groupon ?Transdisciplinary Approaches in Documen-tation?20.
Originating from philosophy of sci-ence (Mittelstrass, 2002), transdisciplinarity con-centrates on problems, which cannot be solvedwithin a single disciplinary framework.
It takesa new view on the unity of science, focussing onscientific rationality, not systems.
Taking into ac-count that for all sciences there are common ele-ments in the practice of argumentation and justifi-cation, transdisciplinarity is a research principle inthe first place.
Its emphasis on rational languageuse in science offers a clue to the field of docu-mentation; as a starting point, our methodologicalfocus is first of all on data integration .
Takinginto account that transdisciplinarity addresses thepractice of research, this framework should sup-port an action and event perspective on a genericlevel, i.e.
for the tasks of classification, represen-tation, annotation, linking, etc.In fact, we claim that the CIDOC CRM can playthe role of such a transdisciplinary framework;at least for the stag beetle on goblets and stilllife paintings, some other insects and also birdson drawings and paintings, the modelling taskhas already been performed successfully.
For thebirds ?
hooded crows in Dutch winter scenes inBrueghel paintings ?
our transdisciplinary mod-elling effort provided a nice result for biodiversityresearch as a side effect: During the ?little ice age?hooded crows lived in Western Europe, whereastoday they can only be found east of the Elbe river.AcknowledgmentsThe authors are grateful for valuable hints anddiscussions to Siegfried Krause, Georg Hohmann,Karl-Heinz Lampe, and Bernhard Schiemann andto the anonymous reviewers for valuable sugges-tions.20at the CIDOC 2008 conference; online materi-als are available via http://www8.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/IMMD8/Services/transdisc/ ; visited 03.12.2008.ReferencesKerstin Bu?cher, Gu?nther Goerz, and Bernd Ludwig.2002.
Corega Tabs: Incremental semantic compo-sition.
In Gu?nther Goerz and et al, editors, KI-2002Workshop on Applications of Description Logics,Proceedings, volume 63 of CEUR Workshop Pro-ceedings, Aachen, September.
Gesellschaft fu?r In-formatik e.V.Martin Doerr.
2003.
The CIDOC Conceptual Refer-ence Model: an ontological approach to semantic in-teroperability of metadata.
AI Magazine, 24(3):75?92, September.Ingrid Fischer, Bernd Geistert, and Gu?nther Goerz.1996.
Incremental semantics construction andanaphora resolution using Lambda-DRT.
In S. Bot-ley and J.
Glass, editors, Proceedings of DAARC-96 ?
Discourse Anaphora and Anaphor ResolutionColloquium, pages 235?244, Lancaster, July.Gu?nther Goerz, Martin Oischinger, and BernhardSchiemann.
2008.
An Implementation of theCIDOC Conceptual Reference Model (4.2.4) inOWL-DL.
In Proceedings of the 2008 Annual Con-ference of CIDOC ?
The Digital Curation of Cul-tural Heritage, pages 1?14, Athens, Benaki Mu-seum, September 15?18.Lutz Heusinger.
1989.
Marburger Informations-,Dokumentations- und Administrations-System (MI-DAS) / [1,2].
Saur, Mu?nchen.Nancy Ide and Jean Veronis, editors.
1995.
Text En-coding Initiative.
Background and Context.
Kluwer,Dordrecht.
Also in: Computers and the Humanities.Vol.
29, No.
1?3 (1995).Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From Discourse toLogic.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Ju?rgen Mittelstrass.
2002.
Transdisciplinarity ?
newstructures in science.
In Innovative Structures inBasic Research.
Ringberg-Symposium, 4?7 October2000, number 5 in Max Planck Forum, pages 43?54,Mu?nchen.David A. Smith.
2002.
Detecting events with dateand place information in unstructured text.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2nd ACM+IEEE Joint Conferenceon Digital Libraries, pages 191?196, Portland, OR.Regine Stein and Erin Coburn.
2008.
CDWA Liteand museumdat: New developments in metadatastandards for cultural heritage information.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2008 Annual Conference of CIDOC,Athens, September 15?18.Svenja Tantzen.
2004.
Ein Prologparser fu?r temporaleund lokale Ausdru?cke in einem ?Geosem-System?fu?r das Deutsche.
Technical report, Friedrich-Alexander-Universita?t Erlangen-Nu?rnberg,Philosophische Fakulta?t II, Erlangen.
MasterThesis.9
