Proceedings of the 2009 Named Entities Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 76?79,Suntec, Singapore, 7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPPhonological Context Approximation and Homophone Treatmentfor NEWS 2009 English-Chinese Transliteration Shared TaskOi Yee KwongDepartment of Chinese, Translation and LinguisticsCity University of Hong KongTat Chee Avenue, Kowloon, Hong KongOlivia.Kwong@cityu.edu.hkAbstractThis paper describes our systems participatingin the NEWS 2009 Machine TransliterationShared Task.
Two runs were submitted for theEnglish-Chinese track.
The system for thestandard run is based on graphemic approxi-mation of local phonological context.
The onefor the non-standard run is based on parallelmodelling of sound and tone patterns for treat-ing homophones in Chinese.
Official resultsshow that both systems stand in the mid rangeamongst all participating systems.1 IntroductionThis paper describes our systems participating inthe English-Chinese track of the NEWS 2009Machine Transliteration Shared Task.The apparently free combination of Chinesecharacters in names is not entirely ungoverned.There are no more than a few hundred Chinesecharacters which are used in names.
Moreover,beyond linguistic and phonetic properties, manysocial and cognitive factors are simultaneouslyinfluencing the naming process and superimpos-ing on the surface graphemic correspondence.Our systems in the standard and non-standardruns aim at addressing two issues in English-Chinese forward transliteration (referred to asE2C hereafter), namely graphemic ambiguity andhomophones in Chinese respectively.By graphemic ambiguity, we refer to the mul-tiple mappings between English segments andChinese segments.
For example, the Englishsegment ?ty?
could be rendered as ?
di4 as inChristy ????
ke4-li3-si1-di4, or ?
tai4 asin Style ???
si1-tai4-er31.
Although direct1 The transcriptions in this paper are in Hanyu Pinyin.orthographic mapping (e.g.
Li et al, 2004) hasbeen shown to work even more effectively thanphoneme-based methods (e.g.
Virga and Khu-danpur, 2003), it is observed that phonologicalcontext plays an important role in resolving gra-phemic ambiguity.
In the absence of an explicitphonemic representation of the source names,our GAP system, to be described in Section 4.1,attempts to approximate the local phonologicalcontext for a given segment by means of surfacegraphemic properties.An English name could be acceptably translit-erated in various ways, e.g.
???
xi1-la1-li3,???
xi1-la1-li4, ???
xi1-la1-li4, as well as???
xi1-la1-rui3 are all possible translitera-tions for Hilary.
Homophones are abundant inChinese, as evident from the first three alterna-tives above.
However, conventional translitera-tion models often rely heavily on the distributionof the training data, which might preclude infre-quent but similarly acceptable transliterationcandidates.
Also, Chinese is a typical tonal lan-guage.
The sound-tone combination is importantin names.
Names which sound ?nice?
are oftenpreferred to those which sound ?monotonous?.Our SoToP system to be described in Section 4.2thus attempts to model sound and tone patterns inparallel, to deal with homophones more reasona-bly despite possible skewed prior distributions.Related work will be briefly reviewed in Sec-tion 2, and the datasets will be described in Sec-tion 3.
The systems for both runs and their per-formance will be reported in Section 4, followedby future work and conclusion in Section 5.2 Related WorkThere are basically two categories of work onmachine transliteration.
First, various alignmentmodels are used for acquiring transliteration76lexicons from parallel corpora and other re-sources (e.g.
Kuo and Li, 2008).
Second, statis-tical models are built for transliteration.
Thesemodels could be phoneme-based (e.g.
Knight andGraehl, 1998), grapheme-based (e.g.
Li et al,2004), hybrid (Oh and Choi, 2005), or based onphonetic (e.g.
Tao et al, 2006) and semantic (e.g.Li et al, 2007) features.The core of our systems is based on Li et al?s(2004) Joint Source-Channel Model under thedirect orthographic mapping framework, whichskips the middle phonemic representation inconventional phoneme-based methods and mod-els the segmentation and alignment preferencesby means of contextual n-grams of the translit-eration segment pairs (or token pairs in their ter-minology).
A bigram model under their frame-work is thus as follows:?=??
><><?><><><==KkkkkkkkkkcecePcececePccceeePCEP11122112121),|,(),,...,,,,(),...,,,,...,,(),(where E refers to the English source name and Crefers to the transliterated Chinese name.
With Ksegments aligned between E and C, ek and ck re-fer to the kth English segment and its corre-sponding Chinese segment respectively.3 DatasetsThe current study used the English-Chinese(EnCh) data provided by the shared task organis-ers.
There are 31,961 English-Chinese namepairs in the training set, 2,896 English-Chinesename pairs in the development set, and another2,896 English names in the test set.
The Chinesetransliterations basically correspond to MandarinChinese pronunciations of the English names, asused by media in Mainland China (Xinhua NewsAgency, 1992).The training and development data weremanually cleaned up and aligned with respect tothe correspondence between English segmentsand Chinese segments, e.g.
Aa/l/to ?/?/?, andthe pronunciations for the Chinese characterswere automatically looked up.Based on all the unique English segments re-sulting from manual alignment, all possible seg-mentations of a test name were first obtained,and they were then ranked using a probabilisticscore computed by:?=+?
?Kkkkkk sfcsPslcsPSScore111 ))(|())(|()(where S is a segmentation sequence with K seg-ments, sk is the kth segment in S, lc(sk-1) is thelast character of segment sk-1 and fc(sk+1) is thefirst character of segment sk+1.4 System Description4.1 Standard Run ?
GAPOur system for the standard run is called GAP,which stands for Graphemic Approximation ofPhonological context.Although direct orthographic mapping hasbeen shown to be an effective method, it is nev-ertheless observed that phonological context sig-nificantly contributes to the resolution of somegraphemic ambiguity.
For example, the Englishsegment ?le?
was found to correspond to asmany as 15 Chinese segments in the data, includ-ing ?
li4, ?
le4, ?
li4, ?
er3, ?
lai2, ?
li3,etc.
When ?le?
appears at the end of a name, allbut a few cases are rendered as ?
er3, e.g.
Dale??
dai4-er3 and Dipasquale ?????
di2-pa4-si1-kui2-er3.
This is especially true whenthe previous character is ?a?.
On the contrary,when ?le?
appears at the end of a name followingan ?r?, it is more often rendered as ?
li4 instead,e.g.
Berle ??
bo2-li4.
On the other hand, ?le?at the beginning of name is often rendered as ?le4 or ?
lai2, e.g.
Lepke ???
lai2-pu3-ke4,except when it is followed by the vowel ?o?,where it is then often transliterated as ?
li4, e.g.Leonor ???
li4-ao4-nuo4.
Such observationthus indicates two important points for E2C.First, the phonological context is useful as Eng-lish graphemic segments could be ambiguous interms of pronunciation, and the actual pronuncia-tion often determines which Chinese segment isto be used.
Second, local contexts on both sidesare important as they indicate the environment inwhich the segment is embedded, which mightaffect the way it is pronounced.GAP thus attempts to approximate local pho-nological context by means of surface graphemicproperties, making use of bigrams in both direc-tions.
Since the phonological environment mightbe sufficiently represented by a neighbouringphoneme instead of a whole syllable, we ap-proximate the phonological context with onecharacter on both sides of a given English seg-ment, irrespective of their corresponding Chinese77segments.
Using single characters on both sidescould also ensure that a small and consistent pa-rameter space is maintained.
Hence, weightingthe context on both sides equally, GAP assigns ascore Score(E,C) to a transliteration candidatewith K segment pairs as follows:?=+?
><><Kkkkkkkk efccePelcceP111 ))(|,())(|,(where <ek,ck> is the kth English-Chinese segmentpair, lc(ek-1) is the last character of segment ek-1and fc(ek+1) is the first character of segment ek+1.Taking the top 3 segmentation candidates, thetransliteration candidates were generated bylooking up the grapheme pairs obtained frommanual alignment with frequency f ?
3.
If thereis no grapheme pair above the threshold, all pairsbelow the threshold would be considered.
Allcombinations obtained were then subject to rank-ing with Score(E,C) above.4.2 Non-standard Run ?
SoToPThe homophone problem is notorious in Chinese.As far as personal name transliteration is con-cerned, unless there are standardised principlesprescribed, the ?correctness?
of transliteratednames is not clear-cut at all.
As a tonal language,how a combination of characters sounds is alsoimportant in naming.
As in the example given inSection 1, one cannot really say any of the trans-literations for Hilary is ?right?
or ?wrong?, butperhaps only ?better?
or ?worse?.
Hence namingis more of an art than a science, and automatictransliteration should avoid over-reliance on thetraining data and thus missing unlikely but goodalternative candidates.Our system for the non-standard run, SoToP,thus aims at addressing this cognitive or percep-tual aspect of transliteration beyond its linguisticand phonetic properties.
Instead of direct ortho-graphic mapping, we use a Sound model (SoM)and a Tone model (ToM) in Parallel.
The SoToParchitecture is shown in Figure 1.SoM basically assembles the homophones andcaptures the sound patterns in terms of a graph-eme-phoneme mapping.
The operation of SoMis like GAP above, except that the <ek,ck> pairsare replaced by <ek,sok> pairs, where sok refers tothe phonetic transcription in Hanyu Pinyin(without tone) for the kth Chinese segment in acandidate.ToM, on the other hand, captures the tone pat-terns of transliteration, irrespective of the soundand the character choice.
Although English doesnot have tones, the intonation and stress of a syl-lable may prompt for the usage of a Chinesecharacter of a certain tone.
Chinese, on the otherhand, is a tonal language.
The tone patterns aremore cognitive in nature, as some combinationsmay just sound awkward for no apparent reason.Moreover, some sound-tone combinations mightresult in undesirable homophones, which are alsoavoided in names in general.
The operation ofToM is also like GAP, except that the <ek,ck>pairs are replaced by <ek,tok> pairs, where tokrefers to the tone for the kth Chinese segment ina candidate.The Candidate Generator combines the top Mcandidates from ToM and top N candidates fromSoM to generate character combinations by look-ing up a pronunciation table.
The lookup tablelists the homophones for each sound-tone com-bination found in the data.
In the current study,both M and N were set to 3.
The generated can-didates were then ranked by a simple bigrammodel based on the bigram probabilities of theChinese segments.4.3 System TestingThe two systems were tested on the NEWS de-velopment data, containing 2,896 English names.System performance was measured by the fol-lowing evaluation metrics: Word Accuracy inTop-1 (ACC), Fuzziness in Top-1 (Mean F-score), Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), MAPref,MAP10, and MAPsys.
Detailed description ofthese metrics can be found in the NEWS sharedtask whitepaper (Li et al, 2009).Table 1 shows the system testing results on thedevelopment data.
The standard run, GAP, ingeneral gives better results than the non-standardrun, SoToP.
One possible reason is apart fromthe source name segmentation step, SoToP hasmore steps allowing error propagation as themapping was done separately with sound andtone, whereas GAP directly maps English seg-ments to Chinese segments at the graphemiclevel.Metric GAP SoToPACC 0.645 0.597Mean F-score 0.860 0.836MRR 0.732 0.674MAPref 0.645 0.597MAP10 0.223 0.206MAPsys 0.225 0.335Table 1.
System Testing Results784.4 Official ResultsThe two systems were trained on both the train-ing data and development data together, and runon the test data.
The official results are shown inTable 2.
The performance of the two systems isin the mid range amongst all participating sys-tems, including standard and non-standard runs.Despite the shortcoming and lower performanceof SoToP, modelling the sound and tone patternshas its merits for handling homophones.
For ex-ample, the expected transliteration for Mcgiveran,????
mai4-ji2-fu2-lun2, was ranked 6th byGAP but 1st by SoToP.
The segment ?ve?
ismuch more likely rendered as ?
fu1 than as ?fu2, but ToM in SoToP was able to capture thepreferred tone pattern 4-2-2-2 in this case.Metric GAP SoToPACC 0.621 0.587Mean F-score 0.852 0.834MRR 0.718 0.665MAPref 0.621 0.587MAP10 0.220 0.203MAPsys 0.222 0.330Table 2.
Official Results on Test Data5 Future Work and ConclusionThus we have reported on the two systems par-ticipating in the NEWS shared task.
The stan-dard run, GAP, relies on direct orthographicmapping and approximates local phonologicalcontext with neighbouring graphemes to helpresolve graphemic ambiguity.
The non-standardrun, SoToP, attempts to address the homophoneissues in Chinese, by modelling the sound andtone patterns in parallel, and subsequently com-bining them to generate transliteration candidates.In general GAP gives better results than SoToP,while both are in the mid range amongst all par-ticipating systems.
Future work includes moreerror analysis and improving the accuracy of in-dividual steps to minimise error propagation.The possible combination of the two methods isalso worth further investigation.AcknowledgementsThe work described in this paper was substan-tially supported by a grant from City Universityof Hong Kong (Project No.
7002203).ReferencesKnight, K. and Graehl, J.
(1998)  Machine Translit-eration.
Computational Linguistics, 24(4):599-612.Kuo, J-S. and Li, H. (2008)  Mining Transliterationsfrom Web Query Results: An Incremental Ap-proach.
In Proceedings of SIGHAN-6, Hyderabad,India, pp.16-23.Li, H., Zhang, M. and Su, J.
(2004)  A Joint Source-Channel Model for Machine Transliteration.
InProceedings of the 42nd Annual Meeting of ACL,Barcelona, Spain, pp.159-166.Li, H., Sim, K.C., Kuo, J-S. and Dong, M. (2007)Semantic Transliteration of Personal Names.
InProceedings of 45th Annual Meeting of ACL, Pra-gue, Czech Republic, pp.120-127.Li, H., Kumaran, A., Zhang, M. and Pervouchine, V.(2009)  Whitepaper of NEWS 2009 MachineTransliteration Shared Task.
In Proceedings ofACL-IJCNLP 2009 Named Entities Workshop(NEWS 2009), Singapore.Oh, J-H. and Choi, K-S. (2005)  An Ensemble ofGrapheme and Phoneme for Machine Translitera-tion.
In R. Dale et al (Eds.
), Natural LanguageProcessing ?
IJCNLP 2005.
Springer, LNAI Vol.3651, pp.451-461.Tao, T., Yoon, S-Y., Fister, A., Sproat, R. and Zhai, C.(2006)  Unsupervised Named Entity TransliterationUsing Temporal and Phonetic Correlation.
In Pro-ceedings of EMNLP 2006, Sydney, Australia,pp.250-257.Virga, P. and Khudanpur, S. (2003)  Transliteration ofProper Names in Cross-lingual Information Re-trieval.
In Proceedings of the ACL2003 Workshopon Multilingual and Mixed-language Named EntityRecognition.Xinhua News Agency.
(1992)  Chinese Translitera-tion of Foreign Personal Names.
The CommercialPress.Sound Model (SoM)Tone Model (ToM)Candidate Generator English nameChinesecandidates +Figure 1.
The SoToP Architecture for E2C Transliteration79
