Proceedings of CLIAWS3, Third International Cross Lingual Information Access Workshop, pages 21?29,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsCross-lingual Alignment and Completion of Wikipedia TemplatesGosse BoumaInformation ScienceUniversity of Groningeng.bouma@rug.nlSergio DuarteInformation ScienceUniversity of Groningensergio.duarte@gmail.comZahurul IslamInformation ScienceUniversity of Groningenzaisdb@gmail.comAbstractFor many languages, the size of Wikipedia isan order of magnitude smaller than the En-glish Wikipedia.
We present a method forcross-lingual alignment of template and in-fobox attributes in Wikipedia.
The alignmentis used to add and complete templates andinfoboxes in one language with informationderived from Wikipedia in another language.We show that alignment between English andDutch Wikipedia is accurate and that the re-sult can be used to expand the number of tem-plate attribute-value pairs in Dutch Wikipediaby 50%.
Furthermore, the alignment pro-vides valuable information for normalizationof template and attribute names and can beused to detect potential inconsistencies.1 IntroductionOne of the more interesting aspects of Wikipediais that it has grown into a multilingual resource,with Wikipedia?s for many languages, and system-atic (cross-language) links between the informationin different language versions.
Eventhough Englishhas the largest Wikipedia for any given language, theamount of information present in Wikipedia exceedsthat of any single Wikipedia.
One of the reasons forthis is that each language version of Wikipedia hasits own cultural and regional bias.
It is likely, forinstance, that information about the Netherlands isbetter represented in Dutch Wikipedia than in otherWikipedia?s.
Some indication that this is indeedthe case comes from the fact a Google search for?Pim Fortuyn?
in the DutchWikipedia gives 498 hits,whereas the English Wikipedia gives only 292 hits.Also, 21,697 pages in DutchWikipedia fall in a cate-gory matching ?Nederlands(e)?, whereas only 9,494pages in English Wikipedia fall in a category match-ing ?Dutch?.
This indicates that, apart from the ob-vious fact that smaller Wikipedia?s can be expandedwith information found in the larger Wikipedia?s,it is also true that even the larger Wikipedia?s canbe supplemented with information harvested fromsmaller Wikipedia?s.Wikipedia infoboxes are tabular summaries of themost relevant facts contained in an article.
Theyrepresent an important source of information forgeneral users of the encyclopedia.
Infoboxes (seefigure 1) encode facts using attributes and values,and therefore are easy to collect and process au-tomatically.
For this reason, they are extremelyvaluable for systems that harvest information fromWikipedia automatically, such as DbPedia (Auer etal., 2008).
However, as Wu and Weld (2007) note,infoboxes are missing for many pages, and not allinfoboxes are complete.
This is particularly true forWikipedia?s in languages other than English.Infoboxes are a subclass of Wikipedia templates,which are used by authors of Wikipedia pages to ex-press information in a systematic way, and to en-sure that formatting of this information is consistentacross Wikipedia.
Templates exist for referring tomultimedia content, external websites, news stories,scientific sources, other on-line repositories (such asthe Internet Movie Database (IMDB), medical clas-sification systems (ICD9 and ICD10), coordinates onGoogle Maps, etc.
Although we are primarily inter-ested in infoboxes, in the experiments below we take21{{Infobox Philosopher |region = Western Philosophy |era = [[19th-century philosophy]] |image_name = George Boole.jpg|image_caption = George Boole |name = George Lawlor Boole |birth = November 2, 1815 |death = December 8, 1864 |school = Mathematical foundationsof [[computer science]] |main_interests = [[Mathematics]], [[Logic]] |ideas = [[Boolean algebra]]}}Figure 1: Infobox and (simplified) Wikimedia sourceall templates into account.We plan to use information mined fromWikipediafor Question Answering and related tasks.
In 2007and 2008, the CLEF question answering track1 usedWikipedia as text collection.
While the usual ap-proach to open domain question answering relies oninformation retrieval for selecting relevant text snip-pets, and natural language processing techniques foranswer extraction, an alternative stream of researchhas focussed on the potential of on-line data-sets forquestion answering (Lita et al, 2004; Katz et al,2005).
In Bouma et al (2008) it is suggested thatinformation harvested from infoboxes can be usedfor question answering in CLEF.
For instance, theanswer to questions such as How high is the Matter-horn?, Where was Piet Mondriaan born?, and Whatis the area of the country Suriname?
can in princi-ple be found in infoboxes.
However, in practice thenumber of questions that is answered by their DutchQA-system by means information from infoboxes issmall.
One reason for this is the lack of coverage ofinfoboxes in Dutch Wikipedia.1http://clef-qa.itc.itIn the recent GIKICLEF task2 systems have to findWikipedia pages in a number of languages whichmatch descriptions such as Which Australian moun-tains are higher than 2000 m?, French bridges whichwere in construction between 1980 and 1990, andAfrican capitals with a population of two millioninhabitants or more.
The emphasis in this task isless on answer extraction from text (as in QA) andmore on accurate interpretation of (geographical)facts known about an entity.
GIKICLEF is closelyrelated to the entity ranking task for Wikipedia, asorganized by INEX.3 We believe systems partici-pating in tasks like this could profit from large col-lections of ?entity,attribute,value?
triples harvestedfrom Wikipedia templates.In this paper, we propose a method for automati-cally expanding the amount of information presentin the form of templates.
In our experiments,we used English and Dutch Wikipedia as sources.Given a page in English, and a matching page inDutch, we first find all English-Dutch attribute-value2http://www.linguateca.pt/GikiCLEF3http://inex.is.informatik.uni-duisburg.de22tuples which have a matching value.
Based on thefrequency with which attributes match, we createa bidirectional, intersective, alignment of English-Dutch attribute pairs.
Finally, we use the set ofaligned attributes to expand the number of attribute-value pairs in Dutch Wikipedia with information ob-tained from matching English pages.
We also showthat aligned attributes can be used to normalize at-tribute names and to detect formatting issues and po-tential inconsistencies in attribute values.2 Previous WorkDbPedia (Auer et al, 2008) is a large, on-going,project which concentrates on harvesting informa-tion from Wikipedia automatically, on normaliza-tion of the extracted information, on linking the in-formation with other on-line data repositories, andon interactive access.
It contains 274M facts about2.6M entities (November, 2008).
An important com-ponent of DbPedia is harvesting of the informationpresent in infoboxes.
However, as Wu and Weld(2007) note, not all relevant pages have (complete)infoboxes.
The information present in infoboxesis typically also present in the running text of apage.
One line of research has concentrated onusing the information obtained from infoboxes asseeds for systems that learn relation extraction pat-terns (Nguyen et al, 2007).
Wu and Weld (2007)go one step further, and concentrate on learning tocomplete the infoboxes themselves.
They presenta system which first learns to predict the appropri-ate infobox for a page (using text classification).Next, they learn relation extraction patterns usingthe information obtained from existing infoboxes asseeds.
Finally, the learned patterns are applied totext of pages for which a new infobox has been pre-dicted, to assign values to infobox attributes.
A re-cent paper by Adar et al (2009) (which only cameto our attention at the time of writing) starts from thesame observation as we do.
It presents a system forcompleting infoboxes for English, German, French,and Spanish Wikipedia, which is based on learning amapping between infoboxes and attributes in multi-ple languages.
A more detailed comparison betweentheir approach and ours is given in section 6The potential of the multilingual nature ofWikipedia has been explored previously by severalresearchers.
Adafre and de Rijke (2006) explore ma-chine translation and (cross-lingual) link structureto find sentences in English and Dutch Wikipediawhich express the same content.
Bouma et al (2006)discuss a system for the English-Dutch QA taskof CLEF.
They basically use a Dutch QA-system,which takes questions automatically translated fromEnglish (by the on-line Babelfish translation ser-vice).
To improve the quality of the translationof named entities, they use, among others, cross-language links obtained from Wikipedia.
Erdmannet al (2008) explore the potential of Wikipedia forthe extraction of bilingual terminology.
They notethat apart from the cross-language links, page redi-rects and anchor texts (i.e.
the text that is used tolabel a hypertext reference to another (wikipedia)page) can be used to obtain large and accurate bilin-gual term lists.3 Data collection and PreparationWe used a dump of Dutch Wikipedia (June 2008)and English Wikipedia (August 2007) made avail-able by the University of Amsterdam4 and convertedto an XML-format particularly suitable for informa-tion extraction tasks.From these two collections, for each page, weextracted all attribute-value pairs found in all tem-plates.
Results were stored as quadruples of theform ?Page, TemplateName, Attribute, Value?.
EachTemplateName?Attribute pair expresses a specificsemantic relation between the entity or concept de-scribed by the Page and a Value.
Values can beanything, but often refer to another Wikipedia page(i.e.
?George Boole, Philosopher, notable ideas,Boolean algebra?, where Boolean algebra is a linkto another page) or to numeric values, amounts, anddates.
Note that attributes by themselves tend to behighly ambiguous, and often can only be interpretedin the context of a given template.
The attribute pe-riod, for instance, is used to describe chemical el-ements, royal dynasties, countries, and (historical)means of transportation.
Another source of attributeambiguity is the fact that many templates simplynumber their attributes.
As we are interested in find-ing an alignment between semantically meaningfulrelations in the two collections, we will therefore4http://ilps.science.uva.nl/WikiXML23Dutch Englishdate June 2008 August 2007pages 715,992 3,840,950pages with template 290,964 757,379cross-language links 126,555templates 550,548 1,074,935tuples 4,357,653 5,436,033template names 2,350 7,783attribute names 7,510 19,378templ?attr pairs 23,399 81,671Table 1: Statistics for the version of Dutch and EnglishWikipedia used in the experiment.concentrate on the problem of finding an alignmentbetween TemplateName?Attribute pairs in Englishand Dutch Wikipedia.Some statistics for the two collections are givenin table 1.
The number of pages is the count for allpages in the collection.
It should be noted that thesecontain a fair number of administrative pages, pagesfor multimedia content, redirect pages, page stubs,etc.
The number of pages which contains contentthat is useful for our purposes is therefore probablya good deal lower, and is maybe closer to the num-ber of pages containing at least one template.
Cross-language links (i.e.
links from an English page tothe corresponding Dutch page) where extracted fromEnglish Wikipedia.
The fact that 0.5M templates inDutch give rise to 4.3M tuples, whereas 1.0M tem-plates in English give rise to only 5.4M tuples is per-haps a consequence of the fact that the two collec-tions are not from the same date, and thus may re-flect different stages of the development of the tem-plate system.We did spend some time on normalization of thevalues found in extracted tuples.
Our alignmentmethod relies on the fact that for a sufficient num-ber of matching pages, tuples can be found withmatching values.
Apart from identity and Wikipediacross-language links, we rely on the fact that dates,amounts, and numerical values can often be rec-ognized and normalized easily, thus increasing thenumber of tuples which can be used for alignment.Normalization addresses the fact that the use ofcomma?s and periods (and spaces) in numbers isdifferent in English and Dutch Wikipedia, and thatdates need to be converted to a standard.
EnglishWikipedia expresses distances and heights in milesand feet, weights in pounds, etc., whereas DutchWikipedia uses kilometres, metres, and kilograms.Where English Wikipedia mentions both miles andkilometres we preserve only the kilometres.
In othersituations we convert miles to kilometres.
In spiteof this effort, we noted that there are still quite afew situations which are not covered by our normal-ization patterns.
Sometimes numbers are followedor preceded by additional text (approx.14.5 MB, 44minutes per episode), sometimes there is irregularformatting (October 101988), and some units sim-ply are not handled by our normalization yet (i.e.converting square miles to square kilometres).
Wecome back to this issue in section 6.Kro?tzsch et al (2007) have aslo boserved thatthere is little structure in the way numeric values,units, dates, etc.
are represented in Wikipedia.
Theysuggest a tagging system similar to the way links toother Wikipedia pages are annotated, but now withthe aim of representing numeric and temporal valuessystematically.
If such a system was to be adoptedby the Wikipedia community, it would greatly fa-cilitate the processing of such values found in in-foboxes.4 AlignmentIn this section we present our method for aligningEnglish Template?Attribute pairs with correspond-ing pairs in Dutch.The first step is creating a list of matching tuples.Step 1.
Extract all matching templatetuples.An English ?Pagee, Temple?Attre,Vale?
tuple matches a Dutch ?Paged,Templd?Attrd, Vald?
tuple if Pageematches Paged and Vale matches Vald andthere is no other tuple for either Pagee orPaged with value Vale or Vald.Two pages or values E and D match ifthere exists a cross-language link whichlinks E and D, or if E=D.We only take into account tuples for which thereis a unique (non-ambiguous) match between Englishand Dutch.
Many infoboxes contain attributes which24often take the same value (i.e.
title and imdb titlefor movies).
Other cases of ambiguity are causedby numerical values which incidentally may takeon identical values.
Such ambiguous cases are ig-nored.
Step 1 gives rise to 149,825 matching tu-ples.5 It might seem that we find matching tuplesfor only about 3-4% of the tuples present in DutchWikipedia.
Note, however, that while there are 290Kpages with a template in Dutch Wikipedia, there areonly 126K cross-language links.
The total numerof tuples on Dutch pages for which a cross-languagelink to English exists is 837K.
If all these tuples havea counterpart in English Wikipedia (which is highlyunlikely), our method finds a match for 18% of therelevant template tuples.6The second step consists of extracting matchingEnglish-Dutch Template?Attribute pairs from thelist of matching tuples constructed in step 1.Step 2.
For each matching pair of tuples?Pagee, Temple?Attre, Vale?
and ?Paged,Templd?Attrd, Vald?, extract the English-Dutch pair of Template?Attributes?Temple?Attre,Templd?Attrd?.In total, we extracted 7,772 different English-Dutch ?Temple?Attre,Templd?Attrd?
tuples.
In547 cases Temple?Attre=Templd?Attrd.
In 915cases, Attre=Attrd.
In the remaining 6,310 cases,Attre 6=Attrd.
The matches are mostly accurate.
Weevaluated 5% of the matching template?attributepairs, that had been found at least 2 times.
For 27%of these (55 out 205), it was not immediately clearwhether the match was correct, because one of theattributes was a number.
Among the remaing 150cases, the only clear error seemed to be a match be-tween the attributes trainer and manager (for soc-cer club templates).
Other cases which are perhapsnot always correct were mappings between succes-sor, successor1, successor2 on the one hand and af-ter/next on the other hand.
The attributes with a5It is interesting to note that 51K of these matching tuplesare for pages that have an identical name in English and Dutch,but were absent in the table of cross-language links.
As a result,we find 32K pages with an identical name in English and Dutch,and at least one pair of matching tuples.
We suspect that thesenewly discovered cross-language links are highly accurate.6If we also include English pages with a name identical to aDutch page, the maximum number of matching tuples is 1.1M,and we find a match for 14% of the data101 cite web title27 voetnoot web titel12 film titel10 commons 17 acteur naam6 game naam5 ster naam4 taxobox zoogdier w-naam4 plaats naam4 band band naam3 taxobox w-naamTable 2: Dutch template?attribute pairs matching En-glish cite web?title.
Counts refer to the number of pageswith a matching value.number suffix probably refer to the nth successor,whereas the attributes without suffix probably referto the immediate successor.On the other hand, for some frequenttemplate?attribute pairs, ambiguity is clearlyan issue.
For the English pair cite web?title forinstance, 51 different mappings are found.
Themost frequent cases are shown in table 2.
Note thatit would be incorrect to conclude from this that, forevery English page which contains a cite web?titlepair, the corresponding Dutch page should include,for instance, a taxobox?w-naam tuple.In the third and final step, the actual alignmentbetween English-Dutch template?attribute pairs isestablished, and ambiguity is eliminated.Step 3.
Given the list of matchingtemplate?attribute pairs computed in step2 with a frequency ?5, find for each En-glish Temple?Attre pair the most frequentmatching Dutch pair Templd?Attrd.
Simi-larly, for each Dutch pair Templd?Attrd,find the most frequent English pairTemple?Attre.
Return the intersection ofboth lists.2,070 matching template?attribute tuples areseen at least 5 times.
Preference for themost frequent bidirectional match leaves 1,305template?attribute tuples.
Examples of aligned tu-ples are given in table 3.
We evaluated 10% ofthe tuples containing meaningful attributes (i.e.
not25English DutchTemplate Attribute Template Attributeactor spouse acteur partnerbook series boek reekscasino owner casino eigenaarcsi character portrayed csi personage acteurdogbreed country hond landfootball club ground voetbal club stadionfilm writer film schrijvermountain range berg gebergteradio station airdate radiozender lanceringTable 3: Aligned template?attribute pairsnumbers or single letters).
In 117 tuples, we dis-covered two errors: ?aircraft specification?numberof props, gevechtsvliegtuig?bemanning?
aligns thenumber of engines with the number of crewmembers (based on 10 matching tuples), and?book?country, film?land?
involves a mismatch oftemplates as it links the country attribute for a bookto the country attribute for a movie.Note that step 3 is similar to bidirectional inter-sective word alignment as used in statistical machinetranslation (see Ma et al (2008), for instance).
Thismethod is known for giving highly precise results.5 ExpansionWe can use the output of step 3 of the alignmentmethod to check for each English tuple whether acorresponding Dutch tuple can be predicted.
If thetuple does not exist yet, we add it.
In total, thisgives rise to 2.2M new tuples for 382K pages forDutch Wikipedia (see table 4).
We generate almost300K new tuples for existing Dutch pages (250K forpages for which a cross-language link already ex-isted).
This means we exand the total number oftuples for existing pages by 27%.
Most tuples, how-ever, are generated for pages which do not yet existin Dutch Wikipedia.
These are perhaps less useful,although one could use the results as knowledge fora QA-system, or to generate stubs for newWikipediapages which already contain an infobox and otherrelevant templates.The 100 most frequenty added template?attributepairs (ranging from music album?genre (added31,392 times) to single?producer (added 5605pages triplesexisting pages 50,099 253,829new cross-links 11,526 43,449new dutch pages 321,069 1,931,277total 382,694 2,228,555Table 4: Newly inferred template tuplestimes)) are dominated by templates for music al-bums, geographical places, actors, movies, and tax-onomy infoboxes.We evaluated the accuracy of the newly gener-ated tuples for 100 random existing Dutch wikipediapages, to which at least one new tuple was added.The pages contained 802 existing tuples.
876tuples were added by our automatic expansionmethod.
Of these newly added tuples, 62 con-tained a value which was identical to the value ofan already existing tuple (i.e.
we add the tuple?Reuzenhaai, taxobox?naam, Reuzenhaai?
wherethere was already an existing tuple ?Reuzenhaai,taxobox begin?name, Reuzenhaai?
tuple ?
note thatwe add a properly translated attribute name, wherethe original tuple contains a name copied from En-glish!).
The newly added tuples contained 60 tu-ples of the form ?Aegna, plaats?lat dir, N (letter)?,where the value should have been N (the symbol forlatitude on the Northern hemisphere in geographicalcoordinates), and not the letter N. One page (Akira)was expanded with an incoherent set of tuples, basedon tuples for the manga, anime, and music producerwith the same name.
Apart from this failure, therewere only 5 other clearly incorrect tuples (addingo.a.
place?name to Albinism, adding name in Dutchwith an English value to Macedonian, and addingcommunity?name to Christopher Columbus).
Inmany cases, added tuples are based on a differenttemplate for the same entity, often leading to almostidentical values (i.e.
adding geographical coordi-nates using slightly different notation).
In one case,Battle of Dogger Bank (1915), the system added newtuples based on a template that was already in use forthe Dutch page as well, thus automatically updatingand expanding an existing template.26geboren population23 birth date 49 inwoners16 date of birth 9 population8 date of birth 5 bevolking8 dateofbirth 4 inwonersaantal2 born 3 inwoneraantal2 birth 2 town pop1 date birth 2 population total1 birthdate 1 townpop1 inw.1 einwohnerTable 6: One-to-many aligned attribute names.
Countsare for the number of (aligned) infoboxes that contain theattribute.6 Discussion6.1 Detecting IrregularitiesInstead of adding new information, one may alsosearch for attribute-value pairs in two Wikipedia?sthat are expected to have the same value, but donot.
Given an English page with attribute-valuepair ?Attre, Vale?, and a matching Dutch page with?Attrd, Vald?, where Attre and Attrd have beenaligned, one expects Vale and Vald to match aswell.
If this is not the case, something irregularis observed.
We have applied the above rule toour dataset, and detected 79K irregularities.
Anoverview of the various types of irregularities isgiven in table 5.
Most of the non-matching valuesare the result of formatting issues, lack of transla-tions, one value being more specific than the other,and finally, inconsistencies.
Note that inconsisten-cies may also mean that one value is more recentthan the other (population, (stadium) capacity, latestrelease data, spouse, etc.).
A number of formattingissues (of numbers, dates, periods, amounts, etc.
)can be fixed easily, using the current list of irregu-larities as starting point.6.2 Normalizing TemplatesIt is interesting to note that alignment can also beused to normalize template attribute names.
Table 6illustrates this for the Dutch attribute geboren andthe English attribute population.
Both are alignedwith a range of attribute names in the other language.Such information is extremely valuable for ap-plications that attempt to harvest knowledge fromWikipedia, and merge the result in an ontology, orattempt to use the harvested information in an ap-plication.
For instance, a QA-system that has to an-swer questions about birth dates or populations, hasto know which attributes are used to express this in-formation.
Alternatively, one can also use this infor-mation to normalize attribute-names.
In that case,all attributes which express the birth date propertycould be replaced by birth date (the most frequentattribute currently in use for this relation).This type of normalization can greatly reduce thenoisy character of the current infoboxes.
For in-stance, there are many infoboxes in use for geo-graphic locations, people, works of art, etc.
Theseinfoboxes often contain information about the sameproperties, but, as illustrated above, there is no guar-antee that these are always expressed by the sameattribute.6.3 Alignment by means of translationTemplate and attribute names in Dutch often arestraightforward translations of the English name,e.g.
luchtvaartmaatschappij/airline, voetbal-club/football club, hoofdstad/capital, naam/name,postcode/postalcode, netnummer/area code andopgericht/founded.
One might use this informationas an alternative for determining whether twotemplate?attribute pairs express the same relation.We performed a small experiment on in-foboxes expressing geographical information, usingWikipedia cross-language links and an on-line dic-tionary as multilingual dictionaries.
We found that10 to 15% of the attribute names (depending on theexact subset of infoboxes taken into consideration)could be connected using dictionaries.
When com-bined with the attributes found by means of align-ment, coverage went up to maximally 38%.6.4 ComparisonIt is hard to compare our results with those of Adaret al (2009).
Their method uses a Boolean classi-fier which is trained using a range of features to de-termine whether two values are likely to be equiva-lent (including identity, string overlap, link relations,translation features, and correlation of numeric val-ues).
Training data is collected automatically by27Attributes Values TypeEnglish Dutch English Dutchcapacity capaciteit 23,400 23 400 formattingnm lat min 04 4 formattingdate date 1775-1783 1775&#8211;1783 formattingname naam African baobab Afrikaanse baobab translationartist artiest Various Artists Verschillende artiesten translationregnum rijk Plantae Plantae (Planten) specificitycity naam, Comune di Adrara San Martino Adrara San Martino specificitybirth date geboren 1934 1934-8-25 specificityimagepath coa wapenafbeelding coa missing.jpg Alvaneu wappen.svg specificitypopulation inwonersaantal 5345 5369 inconsistentcapacity capaciteit 13,152 14 400 inconsistentdateofbirth geboortedatum 2 February 1978 1978-1-2 inconsistentelevation hoogte 300 228 inconsistentTable 5: Irregular values in aligned attributes on matching pagesselecting highly similar tuples (i.e.
with identicaltemplate and attribute names) as positive data, and arandom tuple from the same page as negative data.The accuracy of the classifier is 90.7%.
Next, foreach potential pairing of template?attribute pairsfrom two languages, random tuples are presentedto the classifier.
If the ratio of positively clas-sified tuples exceeds a certain threshold, the twotemplate?attribute pairs are assumed to express thesame relation.
The accuracy of result varies, withmatchings of template?attribute pairs that are basedon the most frequent tuple matches having an accu-racy score of 60%.
They also evaluate their systemby determining how well the system is able to pre-dict known tuples.
Here, recall is 40% and precisionis 54%.
The recall figure could be compared to the18% tuples (for pages related by means of a cross-language link) for which we find a match.
If weuse only properly aligned template?attribute pairs,however, coverage will certainly go down some-what.
Precision could be compared to our obser-vation that we find 149K matching tuples, and, af-ter alignment, predict an equivalence for 79K tupleswhich in the data collecting do not have a matchingvalue.
Thus, for 228K tuples we predict an equiva-lent values, whereas this is only the case for 149Ktuples.
We would not like to conclude from this,however, that the precision of our method is 65%, aswe observed in section 5 that most of the conflict-ing values are not inconsistencies, but more oftenthe consequence of formatting irregularities, transla-tions, variation in specificity, etc.
It is clear that thesystem of Adar et al (2009) has a higher recall thanours.
This appears to be mainly due to the fact thattheir feature based approach to determining match-ing values considers much more data to be equiva-lent than our approach which normalizes values andthen requires identity or a matching cross-languagelink.
In future work, we would like to explore morerigorous normalization (taking the data discussed insection 5 as starting point) and inclusion of featuresto determine approximate matching to increase re-call.7 ConclusionsWe have presented a method for automatically com-pletingWikipedia templates which relies on the mul-tilingual nature of Wikipedia and on the fact thatsystematic links exist between pages in various lan-guages.
We have shown that matching template tu-ples can be found automatically, and that an accu-rate set of matching template?attribute pairs can bederived from this by using intersective bidirectionalalignment.
The method extends the number of tu-ples by 51% (27% for existing Dutch pages).In future work, we hope to include more lan-guages, investigate the value of (automatic) transla-tion for template and attribute alignment, investigatealternative alignment methods (using more featuresand other weighting scheme?s), and incorporate theexpanded data set in our QA-system for Dutch.28ReferencesS.F.
Adafre and M. de Rijke.
2006.
Finding similarsentences across multiple languages in wikipedia.
InProceedings of the 11th Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 62?69.E.
Adar, M. Skinner, and D.S.
Weld.
2009.
Informa-tion arbitrage across multi-lingual Wikipedia.
In Pro-ceedings of the Second ACM International Conferenceon Web Search and Data Mining, pages 94?103.
ACMNew York, NY, USA.So?ren Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, JensLehmann, Richard Cyganiak, and Zachary Ives.
2008.Dbpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data.
The Se-mantic Web, pages 722?735.Gosse Bouma, Ismail Fahmi, Jori Mur, Gertjan van No-ord, Lonneke van der Plas, and Jo?rg Tiedemann.
2006.The University of Groningen at QA@CLEF 2006: Us-ing syntactic knowledge for QA.
In Working Notes forthe CLEF 2006 Workshop, Alicante.Gosse Bouma, Jori Mur, Gertjan van Noord, Lonnekevan der Plas, and Jo?rg Tiedemann.
2008.
Questionanswering with Joost at QA@CLEF 2008.
In WorkingNotes for the CLEF 2008 Workshop, Aarhus.M.
Erdmann, K. Nakayama, T. Hara, and S. Nishio.2008.
An approach for extracting bilingual terminol-ogy from wikipedia.
Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-ence, 4947:380.B.
Katz, G. Marton, G. Borchardt, A. Brownell,S.
Felshin, D. Loreto, J. Louis-Rosenberg, B. Lu,F.
Mora, S. Stiller, et al 2005.
External knowledgesources for question answering.
In Proceedings of the14th Annual Text REtrieval Conference (TREC?2005),November.M.
Kro?tzsch, D.
Vrandec?ic?, M. Vo?lkel, H. Haller, andR.
Studer.
2007.
Semantic wikipedia.
Web Semantics:Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web.L.V.
Lita, W.A.
Hunt, and E. Nyberg.
2004.
Resourceanalysis for question answering.
In Association forComputational Linguistics Conference (ACL).Y.
Ma, S. Ozdowska, Y.
Sun, and A.
Way.
2008.
Improv-ing word alignment using syntactic dependencies.
InProceedings of the ACL-08: HLT Second Workshop onSyntax and Structure in Statistical Translation (SSST-2), pages 69?77.D.P.T.
Nguyen, Y. Matsuo, and M. Ishizuka.
2007.
Rela-tion extraction from wikipedia using subtree mining.In PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL CONFER-ENCE ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, page 1414.AAAI Press.Fei Wu and Daniel S. Weld.
2007.
Autonomously se-mantifying wikipedia.
In CIKM ?07: Proceedings ofthe sixteenth ACM conference on Conference on in-formation and knowledge management, pages 41?50,New York, NY, USA.
ACM.29
