Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 264?267,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsThe NOMAGE ProjectCoding the semantic features of FrenchnominalizationsAntonio Balvet* Pauline Haas* Richard Huyghe**Anne Jugnet* Rafael Mar??n**Univ.
Lille 3/CNRS UMR STL 8163 **Univ.
Paris 71 From verbs to nounsFrom the work of (Lees, 1960), through (Chomsky, 1970) and (Grimshaw,1990), to more recent studies, nominalizations have occupied a central placein grammatical analysis, with a focus on morphological and syntactic as-pects.
More recently, researchers have begun to address a specific issueoften neglected before, i.e.
the semantics of nominalizations, and its im-plications for Natural Language Processing applications such as electronicontologies or Information Retrieval.
We focus on precisely these issues in theresearch project NOMAGE (ANR-07-JCJC-0085-01), a young researchers?project funded by the French National Research Agency (ANR).
The presentsubmission outlines this ongoing semantic annotation project.
Several previ-ous works on the semantics of deverbal nouns (Haas & Huyghe, to appear),(Haas, Huyghe, & Mar?
?n, 2008) and (Huyghe & Mar?
?n, 2007), indicate thatnominals inherit certain aspectual properties from their associated verbs.This is particularly clear when comparing telic verb (accomplishment andachievement) vs. atelic verb (state and activity) nominal derivations.
Forexample, telic verb nominal derivations may appear in an N position such asin (1a) and (1b) while this position is not available to stative verb nominalderivations.
(1) a.
Le N a eu lieu a` tel endroit / a` tel momentThe N occurred in that place / at that timeb.
Le lieu du NThe place of the N264The behavior of activity verb nominal derivations, in contrast, is not asclear.
At least two different subclasses should be considered: one composedof nominals such as natation ?swimming?
or jardinage ?gardening?
which,like states, are not acceptable in such contexts; and a second group withcases such as manifestation ?demonstration?
or discussion ?discussion?
which,surprisingly, are indeed acceptable in such contexts.
This distinction iscorrelated with another feature: its countability; nominalizations such asnatation are mass nouns, while those such as manifestation are count nouns.2 Annotating semantic properties in contextBased on the aforementioned works, we may note that while some aspectualfeatures are indeed inherited by the nominal form of the verb, this is not al-ways the case, and the effects are not always the same as in the original verbform.
Detecting such discrepancies between verbal and nominal domains,together with finding the most useful linguistic tests to account for the se-mantics of deverbal nouns, are two of the main issues the NOMAGE projectaims to address.
Based on these preliminary findings, we have just started amanual semantic annotation task on the French Treebank (Abeille?, 2003) ?a1 million-word tagged, parsed and functionally annotated corpus?
centredon aspectual properties.
The first nominal candidates annotated so far arethose ending in -ment and -age suffixes, which represent 2154 items (out of9853 candidates), respectively 1611 -ment and 543 -age nouns, of which only1409 and 382 where deemed relevant.
For this annotation task, one of themain challenges has been to adapt the semantic tests used (transformations)to real-life sentences.
Based on the data gathered so far, we have proposed ahigher-level semantic classification for those nouns, as shown in the table be-low, thus allowing us to analyse the distribution of aspectual classes amongdifferent suffixes, and to compare stative vs. non-stative interpretations ofnominalizations.Suffix type -age -mentStative 0% 3.4%Dynamic 46.33% 59.76%Concrete 7.85% 26.96%Uncategorizable 45.8% 7.88%As the table above shows, the majority of the processed nominalizationsfall into the Dynamic category; Stative nouns are very rare (3.4% of the-ment nominalizations), to the extent that no occurrence of a -age noun265could be found.
For -ment nouns, around 30% of the cases are Concreteinterpretations, e.g.
: ba?timent ?building?.
As for the -age nouns, over 45%are not categorizable based on the annotations gathered so far: in half of theUncategorizable cases, a truly underspecified reading seems to apply, whilein the rest of the cases, the interpretation of the utterance does not dependon the fine-grained semantic categorization considered above.
An exampleof such an underspecified reading is emballage ?packaging?, as in leader eu-rope?en et troisie`me mondial de l?emballage ?european first and world-classthird positions in packaging?, with both a Dynamic and Concrete readings.3 PerspectivesIn the course of the NOMAGE project, subsequent annotation campaignswill be undertaken.
Our aim is to collect enough consistent data to traina semantic tagger, based on tools developed by members of the project?sconsortium.
Preliminary experiments on functional tagging described in(Moreau et al, submitted) show the need to supplement the French Tree-bank and other usable corpora with basic information such as: headed-ness for nouns; predicative nature for verbs, nouns and adjectives; and theadjunct/argument distinction for NPs.
The data obtained will form thegroundwork of a semantic lexicon of nominalizations for French, a resourceintended for both human and machine use in NLP and IR applications.
Forexample, the high-level distinctions discussed above, namely Stative, Dy-namic and Concrete interpretation could prove useful in tasks such as au-tomatic Word Sense Disambiguation (e.g.
?construction?
in a Concrete vs.a Dynamic interpretation) and Topic Detection and Tracking (e.g.
spottingdifferent instances of a given Event).ReferencesAbeille?, A.
(2003).
Treebanks, Building and Using Parsed Corpora.
Dordrecht,Kluwer.Chomsky, N. (1970).
Remarks on nominalization.
In R. Jacobs & P.
Rosenbaum(Eds.
), Readings in english transformational grammar.
Waltham (MA): Ginnand Co.Grimshaw, J.
(1990).
Argument structure.
Cambridge/ London: The MIT Press.Haas, P., & Huyghe, R. (to appear).
Les proprie?te?s aspectuelles des nomsd?activite?s.
Cahiers Chronos.Haas, P., Huyghe, R., & Mar?
?n, R. (2008).
Du verbe au nom: calques et de?calagesaspectuels.
In J. Durand, B. Habert, & B. Laks (Eds.
), Congre`s mondial delinguistique franc?aise CMLF?08 (p. 2051-2065).
Paris.266Huyghe, R., & Mar?
?n, R. (2007).
L?he?ritage aspectuel des noms de?verbaux enfranc?ais et en espagnol.
Faits de Langues, 30, 265-273.Lees, R. B.
(1960).
The grammar of english nominalizations.
The Hague: Moutonde Gruyter.Moreau, E., Tellier, I., Balvet, A., Laurence, G., Rozenknop, A., & Poibeau, T.(submitted).
Learning function tags in a french treebank using CRF.
InProceedings of the eacl?09 conference.267
