Proceedings of EACL 2009 Workshop on Semantic Representation of Spoken Language - SRSL 2009, pages 10?18,Athens, Greece, 30 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsOn the segmentation of requests in spoken languageMichael Alvarez-PereyreUniversite?
Paris-Sorbonne ?
CELTAMaison de la recherche (D.310)28 rue Serpente, 75006 Paris, Francemaponline@gmail.comAbstractThis paper presents a theoretical approachto the characterization of requests bound-aries and structure in general spoken di-alogue.
Emphasis is laid on the fracturebetween the illocutionary act of requesting(for which the term ?request?
is kept) andthe locutionary elements that carry it out(its ?instantiation?).
This approach leads toa representation of requests based on theinclusion of a semantic level under a prag-matic level via a structural level.
Thesedistinctions are meant to benefit to thesemantic-pragmatic segmentation of dia-logue and the study of request strategies.1 IntroductionThis paper focuses on the segmentation of requestsin spoken language from a semantic-pragmaticperspective.
Taxonomies exist for specific types ofrequests,1 and general dialogue-acts taxonomieslike DAMSL cover various types of utterances ?in-fluencing the addressee?s future action?
(Core andAllen, 1997; Stolcke et al, 2000).
The aim isnot to replace them?the former are finer-grainedthan what is proposed here, and the latter havethe advantage of treating requests in a frameworkwhich includes other types of dialogue acts.
Thepurpose of this paper is rather to contribute to amiddle-ground, with distinctions general enoughto encompass all types of action requests (assum-ing that a common process of ?requesting?
under-lies them), yet detailed and structured enough toaccount for the construction of their meaning.
Thegoal is therefore not to provide a taxonomy iden-tifying speech or dialogue acts in ?shallow?
dis-1For instance clarification requests or ?CRs?
(Corsaro,1977; Purver, Ginzburg and Healey, 2003; Purver, 2004;Rodr?
?guez and Schlangen, 2004, among others), check-questions (Jurafsky and Martin, 2000, ?19.3), etc.course structure (Jurafsky et al, 1997), but a struc-tured explanatory taxonomy of requesting means.The scope is ?requests for action?
taken in abroad sense, as exemplified by (1-3).2(1) Err / hmm / you know / it would probably be easiest ifI just squeezed back there and poked around myself /would that be alright with you?
// (BRO 0h32m56s)(2) Mister Masry?
// [?Yeah //] I was wondering can youtell me who I talk to / about maybe getting an advanceon my paycheck // Just / for the week-end //(BRO 0h14m33s)(3) Now you listen // I don?t give a damn / which way yougo / just don?t follow me / you got that?
//(FUG 0h18m59s)?Request?
is understood broadly to include thewhole spectrum of invitations, entreaties, com-mands, etc.
?Action?
is understood broadly in thesense that the scope includes requests for clarifi-cation (e.g.
?Who said it??
); for attention, as ?Nowyou listen?
in (3) or ?Mr Masry??
in (2); for con-firmation, as ?You got that??
in (3); and of coursewhat corresponds to a narrow understanding of theexpression ?action requests?, namely requests foractions not concerned with dialogue management,as the request to allow the speaker of (1) into thefile room of the county water board, the request todirect the speaker of (2) to the right person, or therequest not to follow the speaker of (3).
The scopeexcludes ?true?
questions (unmarked information2The sequences quoted in this paper are extracted from acorpus of contemporary North-American films.
Though filmdialogues can by no means be called ?spontaneous?
speech,they share enough features with naturally occurring interac-tions as to help us define the tools to study requests in spokenlanguage.
The advantage of working with commercial filmsis that such material covers the whole gamut of pragmatic in-teractions and situations?though, admittedly, as representednot ?intercepted?
scenes.
Sequences are indexed with threeblock capitals to identify the film quoted (e.g.
Erin Brock-ovich, found at [BRO] in the References) and three numbersspecifying the hour, minute and second when the sequencebegins.
The sound track is transcribed as the succession ofspeech ?increments?
separated by pauses, with simple slashes[/] and double slashes [//] to distinguish between ?tentative?and ?final?
pauses, following Pike (1945).10requests in which no significant attempt to furtherinfluence the addressee is traced).The main question of this paper is: What def-inition of a ?request?
should we work with, if weare to describe the outer boundaries and the innercomplexity of requests in a way that enables mod-elization and quantification of request strategies?3Section 2 starts from the difficulty of assign-ing boundaries to spoken language ?requests?
inthe framework of traditional speech act theory,and stresses key principles for pragmatic researchbased on spoken corpora.
Section 3 proposes aminimal set of distinctions necessary to accountfor the inner organization of request instantiations.Section 4 assesses the approach.2 Towards a definition of ?requests?One aspect of language interactions which tends tobe oversimplified is the relationship between a ?re-quest?
and its instantiation.4 True, with ?indirectrequests?, traditional pragmatics cast light on thegap between the ?illocutionary act?
of requestingand the ?locutionary act?
(or the ?literal?
elements)used to express it.
To bridge this gap, it focusedon the contextual felicity-conditions of utterances,or on the conversational implicatures, the maxims,the inference rules or the cognitive faculties thatenable us to construe their meaning (Austin, 1962;Searle, 1969; Searle, 1979; Grice, 1975; Perraultand Allen, 1980; Lenci, 1994, etc.
); but all too of-ten, the very examples given as a starting point tosuch analyses are far too simple, as the signifier ofthe request is almost invariably composed of oneisolated, syntactically pure segment.5 Pragmaticanalyses of this kind encourage an idealized vi-sion of language interactions, in which a request(and more generally a speech act) coincides per-fectly with one stand-alone, clear-cut and atempo-ral piece of language.More recent ?cue-based?
(Jurafsky and Martin,3This paper deals primarily with the theoretical founda-tions of methodology and does not tackle the technical im-plementation of the results.4?Instantiation?
might be preferred to ?formulation?, as theformer term makes it clearer that the speech elements utteredparticipate not so much in the communication as in the per-forming of the request (along with other elements not dis-cussed here such as intonation, gesture, social context, etc.
).5Stubbs (1983, p. 148) noted that ?it is something of aparadox that speech act theory emphasizes the uses of lan-guage, and in fact applies to utterances not sentences, but hasdepended largely on introspective judgments of isolated sen-tences?.
Geis (1995) pointed out that acts such as requestingor inviting often develop over several interaction turns.2000) probabilistic approaches, on the other hand,give an increasingly accurate surface descriptionof empirical dialogues as successions of normal-ized ?moves?
or ?dialogue acts?
(Carletta et al,1997; Stolcke et al, 2000); but the normalizationof sequences as distinct ?utterances?
also encour-ages an atomistic, ?one segment, one act?
vision.6Yet, as far as semantic-pragmatic representa-tion is concerned, it is artificial and problematic toimagine that a request corresponds to a ?block?
ofsignifier (?2.1) and to a ?block?
of meaning (?2.2).2.1 ?Requests?
?from signs to meaningSpoken corpora show that requests are rarely com-posed of one clause or one simple clause-complex(though dialogue management requests might tendto correspond to monosegmental clauses or frag-ments).
The majority of requests take the formof several increments of various syntactic, seman-tic and pragmatic types, often with repetitions ofincrements, interruptions from the co-interactants(and from the speakers themselves), embeddedphases of negotiation, etc.
The safest way to ap-proach the problem is therefore to consider that apriori every request instantiation is likely to have adiscontinuous signifier and extensible boundaries.Requesting: a real-time processEven assigning the beginning and the end of a ?re-quest?
in a linear transcription can prove difficult,as shown by some seemingly simple, supposedlystraightforward ?imperative?
requests:(4) Put a light in there // Put a light in there //(FUG 0h32m59s)(5) Put that gun down // Put that gun down // Now //(FUG 0h36m40s)The police officer who utters (4) points succes-sively at two different locations in a tunnel inwhich he is walking with his staff.
It is there-fore not a problem to say that the two clauses inthis sequence correspond to two different requests.When some time later the police officer cornersa fugitive and shouts (5), this ?bijective?
analysisdoes not hold anymore: the officer does not wanttwo separate actions of ?putting the gun down?.To consider the segment ?Put that gun down?
as?a request?
would force us to consider the second6That these ?utterances?
may contribute to conversationalor dialogue ?games?
(Carletta et al, 1997; Levin et al, 1998,for instance) tends, in practice, to reinforce their atomisticcharacter, despite the fundamental remark by Traum andHinkelman (1992) on the divisibility of ?utterances?.11segment, as well as ?now?, as so many ?requests?,since each of the three segments, in the situation,is pronounced in order to trigger an action.
Itis preferable to say that the three increments in-stantiate one same request.
The reason is, that allthroughout the speech sequence, the police officerhas one result in mind only, and the fulfillment ofhis request at any moment of the sequence wouldin fact render the subsequent increments uselessand even incoherent (which is not the case in (4)).7The situation of a ?surjective?
relationship be-tween the speech increments and the acts they per-form occurs in cases like (5) because the instan-tiation of action-requests rarely fits the ideal sce-nario according to which one ?block?
stimulus trig-gers one clear reaction (or not), as summarized inthe left part of Figure 1.
Spoken language being areal-time process, interactants habitually take intoconsideration the current state of the world, check-ing whether their expectations have been met (andprobably in a scalar not a polar way), and decid-ing whether more stimulation (seen as process) isnecessary.
In other words, the perlocutionary (theset of effects of the utterance) may influence thelocutionary in return, as long as the world differsfrom what the speakers would like it to be; and aslong as the speakers do not recognize the prod-uct of their intention in the world, they have tochoose between several options: repeat, rephrase,modify the extent of, or abandon their requests.To account for this, one must consider request-instantiation not as an end-product but as a pro-cess, not as ?act?
but as action in progress.
This issummarized in the right part of Figure 1.
"time""request""reaction""time ofspeech""time ofreference"locutionary event(s)perlocutionary(and other) event(s)Both ways: Interpretations, decisions, adjustmentsFigure 1: Requesting, a real-time process7Still, it is common for a speaker to add request-relatedincrements of specific types (e.g.
stating motives) even af-ter the addressee has started complying.
This is because thespeaker?s goal is usually not just to have the addressee ful-fill the request: preserving or attaining a specific kind of re-lationship with one?s interactants (e.g.
by sharing one?s rea-sons with them) is an objective in itself, which partly explainsthe ?variability?
in request strategies (Bloomfield, 1933, ?2.6)and sometimes even justifies the withdrawal of a request.The speech/act fractureThe problem of the instantiation of requestsreaches in fact deeper than the ?mere?
real-timecalculation of an intention/effects (and /cost) ra-tio on the part of the speaker.
Speech being linear,any request that uses spoken language for its in-stantiation will extend over a certain span.
Often,the length of that span is primarily accounted forby the internal complexity of the request instan-tiation, even before it becomes relevant to assessthe perlocutionary.
That a radical fracture must beacknowledged between the speech elements usedand the act performed is exemplified by (6), ut-tered in an emergency ward by a chief-doctor whois examining a patient, to a fellow doctor who istaking care of another patient a few meters away.
(6) Al / get over here / I need you // (FUG 1h06m42s)It is tempting to analyze (6) as a request pre-ceded by a specification of its target and followedby an explanation of its motive.
The problem withthis ?narrow?
analysis is that it forces major de-scriptive changes when possible variants are takeninto consideration, such as (6?)
and (6??)
(assum-ing that, in the situation, they could have producedthe same effect).
It seems indeed difficult to de-scribe the increment ?I need you?
as a ?request?
in(6?)
but as a mere explanation, ?banalized?
by thepresence of the imperative increment, in (6); andit seems equally difficult to hold that the vocativeincrement ?Al?
falls within the scope of the requestin (6??)
but outside of it in (6).(6?)
Al / I need you //(6??)
Al //The ?narrow?
analysis presented above resultsfrom a vision of request instantiations in EI-THER/OR terms within a limited range of clear-cutstrategies (sometimes reduced to clause-types).However, the comparison of common requestssuch as (6) with their possible variants shows thatthe very idea of pinpointing one increment (usu-ally a sentence) as the support of the request istaken at fault?so much so that the distinction be-tween ?direct?
and ?indirect?
speech acts falls.
Im-perative clauses may retain a specificity comparedwith other segments (see further on), but the factsremain that (a) countless requests are instantiatedby several increments, (b) a great number of theseincrements might suffice to instantiate the corre-sponding request alone, (c) none of these incre-ments can claim to be ?the segment of speech that12performs the act?, and therefore (d) all of the in-crements, far from excluding one another from therequest instantiation, contribute to it.From this perspective, the semantic-pragmaticsegmentation of requests in spoken language con-sists in, first, identifying the increments involvedin ?carrying out?
the request and, second, deter-mining the contribution of each increment to thewhole.
It seems doubtful, however, that the mean-ing of a request should be the simple, composi-tional addition of the meanings of its increments.One reason is that the increments of a requestare often semantically and pragmatically hetero-geneous (the three increments in (6) are by nomeans equatable), and their modes of contribu-tion are therefore several.
If heterogeneity is not aproblem for the interactants, it is probably becausethey rely on a broader and more flexible vision ofa request?s meaning than is often acknowledged.2.2 Requesting?from intention to signsWhy do speakers formulate requests?
In mostcases, the goal is not to actually witness an action.The speaker of (4) is not interested in ?seeing?
hisstaff set up spotlights because he said so, nor isthe speaker of (6) interested in ?seeing?
?Al?
comeover to her (if it were the case, motive incrementssuch as ?I need you?
would be incoherent, exceptmaybe as ploys).
The officer wants the tunnel tobe lit, and the doctor wants immediate help from acolleague nearby.
Each of these requests is there-fore meant to bring about a specific situation.
Tobe sure, the ultimate object of most requests is adesired state of the world?not an action; and thepossible actions of the co-interactant(s) often havevalue not of themselves but primarily as a step to-wards the advent of that state.8 A useful way torepresent the speaker?s mental context precedinga request instantiation is therefore to distinguishseveral ?worlds?
roughly seen as static?the cur-rent world and the possible worlds (including thetarget world but also undesired worlds, maybe oth-ers still)?separated by a dynamic ?transition situ-ation?
which includes the possible actions of theco-interactants and the possibility for the speakerto stimulate them into enacting them.Stating the reason that makes the target-worlddesirable (?I need you?)
or naming, with an imper-ative, the action that can bring about this world8The idea of ?plan?
below is close to that found in Perraultand Allen (1980, ?3.3), but its treatment, from the perspectiveof a linguistic ?geo-strategy?, will be different.
(?Come here?
), are two ways, not mutually ex-clusive, to reach the desired situation.
Other in-crements could be added without ?exhausting?
themeaning of the request, i.e.
without instantiatinga new or different one.
Thus, the meaning of arequest is often alluded to jointly by several ele-ments which emphasize various parameters of theworlds or of the transition situation considered,along with elements referring to the process of re-questing itself.
Even when a speaker resorts to theimperative in order to call for an action, it is habit-ually clear to all that this action is to be enacted inthe name of something else.
The functioning of arequest is therefore always metonymic (i.e.
basedon a radical speech/act fracture) in the sense thatincrements focus on one element or another andyet instantiate the whole request.Requests might therefore be best described notas ?attempts.
.
.
by the speaker to get the hearer todo something?
(Searle, 1979, p. 13) but rather asattempts to involve the addressee into a plan de-vised to reach a target world?a plan defined es-pecially (but never exclusively) by the projectedaction(s) of the addressee.
In this perspective, theincrements not naming the projected action are notseen as the conditions meant to help the addresseedecode that action (in traditional pragmatic ex-amples, these elements strangely disappear in thepresence of the imperative); they are understoodhere as part of the general strategy of sharing of aplan that takes place when a request is instantiated(a ?sharing?
which can, of course, be minimal).3 Towards a ?constituency?
of requestinstantiationsThis section details how the reflections developedin ?2 can be rendered operational in order tosegment request instantiations.
The aim here isto sort out the semantic-pragmatic ?constituency?of request instantiations, i.e.
the system wherebyhigher (and often larger) units include lower (of-ten smaller) ones.
The task is therefore to find outwhich ranks are relevant for the study of requestsand what primary distinctions should be acknowl-edged between the units of these ranks.99The reflection below is presented in a progressive wayrather than as a complete nomenclature, both to show the em-pirical necessity of the distinctions acknowledged, and as areminder that this model has not reached a definitive phase.Parallels may be found between the Universe, Manners andPhases described below and (respectively) the attentional, lin-guistic and intentional structures of Grosz and Sidner (1986),though with differences not discussed here.133.1 Semantic distinctionsPart of what defines a request instantiation is,purely and simply, its ?Universe?, understood aswhat entities, concepts, qualities and relations areverbalized (and regardless of the way they are).One level of description (at least) should there-fore be dedicated to distinctions between the typesof elements that appear in speech.
Since the?Universe?
of speakers is not objective but ratherpeopled and structured by what makes sense intheir world-views, some elements are given moreprominence than others among the ?worlds?
andthe ?transition situation?
assumed above.In many request instantiations, the speakerrefers to what could be called the ?head-action?of the request, i.e.
the action that should lead mostdirectly to the ?target world?
: ?
(Can you) tell mewho.
.
.
?
(2), ?Put that gun down?
(5), etc.
Reg-ularly, however, actions are named which are notthe head-action of the request.
What is verbalizedoften corresponds either to a ?sub-action?
of thehead-action hoped for, or to a ?germane action?which is not a necessary subpart of the head-actionbut is, in the context, related to it and meant to trig-ger it.
?Call?
names a sub-action in (7), as it is anecessary step within the head-action ?tell?.
?Lookat it?
names a germane action in (8): with this ut-terance a fisherman asks a shark specialist to re-consider his judgment that the shark under exam-ination (caught by the fisherman) is too small toqualify as the man-eater everyone is hunting for.Though ?Looking?
is not properly a sub-action of?changing one?s judgment?
(or of ?reconsidering?it), it is supposed, in this context, to lead to that.
(7) .
.
.
You call Judge Rubin / you tell him I want a wholebunch of phone-taps.
.
.
// (FUG 0h29m37s)(8) What / this is a big mouth / look at it // (JAW 0h33m09s)Many other verb-referents can be found whichare not to be enacted by the addressee, such as?I was wondering?
in (2) or ?You know?
in (1).The former is a (mental) process attributed to thefirst person (P1), the latter is a (mental) state at-tributed to the second person (P2).
An additionaldifference is that ?I was wondering?
is an assertion(of the occurrence of a reflection process) whereas?You know?, in this utterance, hesitates betweenthe question and the assertion (as it often does).This difference relates to a second level of descrip-tion: actions (and other elements) can be verbal-ized in different ?manners?, for instance a direc-tive or a descriptive manner.
Following a tradi-tional distinction, the former tells the addressee todo the action (through imperatives, performativesand maybe nominals, as in the army?s ?Ateeen-tion!?)
whereas the latter talks of or about theaction (through various types of questions, asser-tions, exclamations, hypotheses, etc.).
In (1), ?Itwould probably be easiest.
.
.
?
is the (descriptive)assertion of a judgment on ?.
.
.
if I just squeezedback there and poked around myself?, in whicha sub-action and a higher-action (attributed to thefirst person, and to be allowed, not enacted by thesecond person) are verbalized as the (descriptive)evocation of a possibility (see Tables 2 and 3).Other elements than actions are found in theverbalized ?Universe?
of a request instantiation.People and objects are often named, some morethan others.
Addressees are crucial interactants asthey are often hoped to become the agents of theprojected head-actions, and they are therefore of-ten named in separate increments (especially to at-tract their attention, as in (2), or to modalize the re-quest).
In a similar way, the notion of head-objectcan be useful to refer to those objects that occupy acentral position in the representation of the head-action.
Indeed, head-objects are so important onthe ?mind map?
of the speaker that they are com-monly named without the action itself (?Scalpel?in an operating room, ?The door!
?, etc.).
Some-times, these objects are accompanied by other el-ements which help specify what is to be done, es-pecially the location where the action is to takeplace or end.
When people, objects, locations orother elements are verbalized outside the net of re-lationships found in clauses, they are often pointedat through speech, and the manner can be said tobe ?indexical?.
Table 1 illustrates the concepts of?head?
action, object and location (FUG 0h36m49s).
(9) Hands up Over your head Turn aroundUniv.
h-obj.R1 head-location(s)R1 h-actionR2Manner idx.
idx.
indexical directiveREQUEST 1 REQUEST 2Table 1: ?Head?
actions, objects and locationsIf the target-situation is desired (and if other sit-uations, including the current one, are unwanted),it is usually because a change would be benefi-cial to someone or something (the speaker, the ad-dressee, other people, institutions, moral princi-ples, etc.).
This explains why, quite often, valuesconcerning the request plan are asserted (e.g.
?It14would probably be easiest.
.
.
?)
or discussed (e.g.
?Would that be alright with you??).
Elements ofother types might be acknowledged in the Uni-verse of the speaker, referring not to actions, par-ticipants, circumstances or values but to specificmeaning-contents that can be given prominencewhen isolated as an increment.
Thus, ?Just?, in (2),does not refer to an entity but brings in the mean-ing of ?restriction?
?here a restriction bearing onthe scope of the ultimate goal, in such a way thatthe request itself is attenuated.
Often, the restric-tion bears directly on the head-action, as in (3).3.2 Structural distinctionsOne issue raised by the last remark is that of deal-ing with units of different ranks, as boundaries donot always coincide.
?Just / for the week-end //?
isrelated to a verb in a preceding increment (?gettingan advance on my paycheck?)
yet it appears aftera final pause, as an afterthought.
An approach fa-voring syntax might try to emphasize the relation-ship with the verb or the clause.
A pragmatic al-ternative (or addition) can be proposed, underlin-ing the fact that speakers (consciously or not) iso-late some increments and join others.
?Just?
carriesthe meaning of ?restriction?
; giving it prominencethrough prosody (by separating it both from whatprecedes and follows it) might therefore be an ef-fective way of increasing the chances of a requestto be fulfilled.
Indeed, ?Just / for the week-end//?
is not verbalized so much for the informational,referential specification it provides concerning thepreceding verb, as for the way it restricts the ?cost?of fulfilling the future request (of asking for an ad-vance on the salary) and therefore the present one(?.
.
.
tell me who I speak to.
.
.
?
).10 The prosodicboundaries both signal and enact a reorganizationof the roles and importance of verbalized elementsunder pragmatic considerations?a reorganizationfor which syntactic distinctions fail to account,and which might be erased or downplayed whenincrements are normalized into ?utterances?.11Still, ?Just?
does not function alone.
An accuratesemantic-pragmatic description should be able torender the facts (a) that signs have meaning in iso-lation, (b) that they enter in meaningful larger syn-10As ?Mr Masry?
is the director of the firm, he can be ex-pected to have a say in salary matters, which might influencehis reaction to a request to name the office manager.11In other words, this paper believes that functions are ful-filled a bit below (with ?phases?, see ?3.3) and a bit above(with ?speech acts?, roughly Discourse Units as in Traum andHinkelman (1992), and see ?2) the level of ?utterances?.tactic structures (on which traditional corpus seg-mentation has focused) and (c) that prosodic cuesoften cut through these structures or fuse severalof them,12 an operation of (re)organization whichis of semantic-pragmatic relevance.Several types of meaningful units are thereforeavailable.13 They are treated here on three sep-arate ranks (some of which might require sub-division to cover the whole structural complex-ity).
The semantic ranks describing the verbalizedUniverse and the verbalizing Manner will com-monly deal with whole increments as well as ?sub-increments?
(e.g.
?It would probably be easiest?
in(1)).
The pragmatic ranks (see ?3.3), on the otherhand, will typically deal with whole increments, aswhat the speaker does through speech seems to becarried out by ?phases?
which often fit into incre-ment boundaries (or run over several increments).The general correspondence of phase boundarieswith those of increments is strengthened by the ob-servation that when several functions are fulfilledwithin the limits of one increment, they are usu-ally fulfilled in a syncretic, not a successive fash-ion (though ?phases?
may sometimes run on partsof increments only).
Focusing on ?functions?
ofincrements leads us to pragmatic distinctions.3.3 Pragmatic distinctionsThe increments uttered when instantiating a re-quest are not just semantically and structurally het-erogeneous (some assert judgments, others pin-point objects or circumstances, etc.
), they are alsopragmatically heterogeneous: different types of?phases?
fulfilling different functions can usuallybe distinguished within a request instantiation.14Taking each increment one after the other, we canask: what is the speaker trying to achieve withthis increment with regard to the general requestunder way?
do neighboring increments fulfill thesame function?
are several functions fulfilled bythe same increment?
if so, can the increment bedivided into sub-increments corresponding to dif-ferent phases, or are all the functions fulfilled syn-12In ?Do not smoke in here thank you very much //?
(JAW 0h30m49s), fusion of an action-specifying phase witha ?second answer?
(which normally follows a positive ?first?answer such a ?Ok?)
expresses the refusal of an alternative.13None of these units need be ?grammatical?
in the tradi-tional, syntactic sense, as many types of fragments are in factaccepted in spoken language (Goldman-Eisler, 1968).14The labels (e.g.
angling<calling<urging) are meant tobe ?intuitive?.
Their pragmatic relevance vis-a`-vis the formalcues (word order, intonation, etc.)
retained to describe speechelements with them is, of course, only assumed for English.15UNIVERSE (major/head/high/sub/germane/next/ultimate) (mental/physical)ACTION/PROCESS/STATE (P{1-6}); TIME; PLACE; VALUE; ?RESTRICTION?
;...Notes: Modifiers before action, process or state specify their place on the mental world-map and theirtype.
Modifiers afterwards attribute them to person.
At this stage, values are not attributed to person.MANNER EGOPHORIC (sends back to speaker); INDEXICAL [INTERPELLATION/POINTING];DESCRIPTIVE [ASSERTION/QUESTION/EVOCATION/RANGE/(...?)
(of/on) ACT-ION/STATE/POSSIBILITY/CIRCUMSTANCE/JUDGMENT/REFLECTION/FEELING/...];DIRECTIVE[IMPERATIVE/PERFORMATIVE/NOMINAL];OPERATIVE (performs an action by itself, e.g.
?just?, ?please?, etc.);(...?
)Notes: This level assesses the semantico-structural contribution; labels can be modified by ?Ambiguity?,which is sometimes part of the speaker?s strategy (see Table 3, (1)), and by ?Negative?
(ibid., (3)).PHASES SPECIFYING/RESTRICTING/QUESTIONING (of) MOTIVE/ACTION/GOAL/SCOPE;ANGLING/CALLING/URGING (for) ATTENTION/FOCUS/EMPATHY/ACTION;(soft) PHATIC/FOCALIZING/ATTENUATING/MODALIZING/INTENSIFYING/...Notes: This level assesses the pragmatic contribution of increments.
Label changes are to be expected.DEPEN-DENCYATTENTION REQUEST; CONFIRMATION REQUEST; METAPRAGMATIC REQUEST;(...?
)Notes: Request dependencies are described in Table 3 only when relevant.Table 2: Preliminary ontology of levels of analysis and their labels (see Table 3 for application)thetically by the whole increment?
if the latter,are the functions distinct (a case represented bysign ?&?
in Table 3) or is one derived from another(in which case the position on a lower line with-out ?&?
represents derivation from functions on ahigher line)?Phases, through their ?vertical?
relations withformal manners and their ?horizontal?
inter-relations, are useful to evaluate request strategies.One important difference between the directiveand descriptive manners, for instance, is that inaddition to specifying an action, directive mannersconventionally convey an urge to enact it.
Descrip-tive manners, as for them, are regularly accompa-nied by elements fulfilling other functions such asstating the value of the action (1) or questioning itspossibility (2).
Fine distinctions should also allowto compare, for instance, increments subtly ?an-gling?
for attention (such as the throat clearing in(1)) and others more clearly ?calling?
for it (thevocative in (2)), not to forget the cases where ob-taining the addressee?s attention is presented as arequest in itself (?Now you listen?
in (3)).With this last remark, we are hitting upon an im-portant pragmatic distinction: not all incrementsin a request participate in its instantiation equally.This is not just because different types of ?phases?must be acknowledged but also because, in somecases, these phases actually contribute to the re-quest via their participation to the instantiationof a ?satellite?, or ?dependent?
request.
True, re-quests for attention and confirmation are com-monly found as ?independent?
requests (for in-stance in a classroom), but they often serve thepurpose of ensuring the felicity of a ?main?
re-quest, as in (3).
?Now you listen?
and ?You gotthat??
are requests in their own right;15 neverthe-less, these requests would have no raison d?e?trewithout the main request not to follow the speaker.A layer can therefore be added in the tables toaccount for request ?Dependency?
; and the head-action of the main request gains a new status, as?major?
action in the request plan.164 Limitations and prospectsThe model presented here has not yet reached astate of maturity where its reliability as an annota-tion scheme can be tested.
Fine-tuning of the dis-tinctions, and clear decision-trees for each rank,are among the next necessary steps.
One theoret-ical limitation is that this approach, in its currentform, does not cover the use of metaphoric lan-guage and more generally the lexical contributionof a number of elements (for instance, the non-professional and vague verb ?to poke around?
in(1) is not chosen by chance instead of, say, ?tosearch for the legal records my firm needs?).
Asimportant is the need to take prosody into fuller15The co-speaker?s ?Yeah?
following the latter is not onlyan ANSWER but also an AGREEMENT/ACCEPT (or COMMIT),in terms of the SWBD-DAMSL taxonomy (Jurafsky et al,1997; Stolcke et al, 2000).
The general duality affecting?check questions?
was noted in Core and Allen (1997).16Clarification is needed of the Phase/Dependency bound-ary, i.e.
of the criteria used to decide when ?phases?
of arequest acquire the status of ?dependent request?
(of whichsome uses of ?Come on?
and ?Do it?
illustrate another type,that of a ?metapragmatic?
request to fulfill the main request).16(1) Err hmm You know It would probably if I just squeezed back there Would that bebe easiest and poked around myself alright with you?Universe - state (P2) value sub-act?
+ high-act?
(P1) valueManner egophoric descriptive descriptive descriptive descriptiveAmbig.
Ass?/Q?
Assert?
Judgment Evocat?
Possibility Quest?
JudgmentPhases att?
angling empathy angling specifying motive & specifying goal assent anglingREQUEST (to let speaker go look for files herself)(2) Mr Masry?
I was wondering can you tell me who I talk to about maybe get- Just for the(-Yeah) ting an advance week-endon my paycheckU addressee mental proc.
(P1) state (P2) head-a?
next a?
(P1) ultimate a?
(P1) ?restr??
momentM indexical descriptive descr.
descr.
descr.
descriptive operative descr.Interpellat?
Assert?
Reflect?
Q?
Poss.
Evoc?
P. Evoc?
P. Evocat?
Possib.
Restrict?
Evoc?
Circ.specifying goal=motive restricting scopePh soft focalizing & & head-act?
specifying attenuatingatt?
calling soft modalizing & Calling modalizingD ATTENT?
R.?REQUEST(to tell speaker how (and if) possible to get advance on her paycheck)(3) Now you listen I don?t give a damn which way you go Just don?t follow me You got that?Univ.
time head-act?R?
value (feeling) act?
(P2) ?restr??
major action sub-actionR??Man.
idx.
directive descriptive descriptive operative directive descriptiveImp.
Assertion Feeling Range Act?s Restrict?
Imp.
(neg.)
Quest?
Act?Ph.
& spec.
act?
Expressing concession : specifying act?
spec.
s-act?focus angl.
& urging modalizing phase : & urging & questioningDep.
ATTENTION R. REQUEST FOR ACTION CONFIRM?
R.(not to follow speaker)Table 3: Description of examples (1), (2) and (3)account and to include nonverbal cues.
Anotherissue is the fact that repair, backchannel and over-lapping tend to be more common in spontaneousspeech than in films (work in preparation); thesephenomena (all of which can be of pragmatic sig-nificance in the context of request-formulation), aswell as turn-taking, must be better integrated.On the plus side, this approach has the advan-tage of trying to bridge the gap, with strong empir-ical emphasis, between ?emic?
parameters such asthe speakers?
beliefs, desires and intentions, and?etic?
cues from the signifier (Pike, 1954; Blum-Kulka, 1981; Reiss, 1985; Jurafsky, 2004).
Byfocusing on the contribution of increments to theconstruction of meaning, and by running statis-tics to reveal which types of increments are usedby speakers in which context and according towhich concatenation patterns, we should eventu-ally be able to draw a picture of the ?strategies?
?conscious or routinized?used when requesting.5 ConclusionTraditional speech act theory rests primarily on thestructure of isolated sentences.
However, at leastas far as requests are concerned, speakers tend toexpress themselves with several increments, het-erogeneous both in nature and function.
?Cue-based?
approaches designed to recognize atomicacts can give accurate descriptions of the speechsurface; but the treatment of each unit as ?act?tends to blur the deeper interrelations.
The ap-proach presented here, based on the loose inclu-sion of a lower semantic level under a higher prag-matic level via a structural level, suggests that, asfar as the representation of spontaneous spokenlanguage is concerned, gains might be made bybroadening the scope of dialogue acts and ?lower-ing?
the aim from the identification of distinct actsto that of the means of their instantiation.AcknowledgmentsI wish to thank Pierre Cotte, Frank Alvarez-Pereyre, Ruth Shalev and an anonymous reviewerfor useful comments and discussions.17ReferencesJohn L. Austin.
1962.
How to do things with words[edited by J. O. Urmson].
Clarendon Press.Leonard Bloomfield.
1933.
Language.
Holt & Co.Shoshana Blum-Kulka.
1981.
The study of translationin view of new developments in discourse analysis:The problem of indirect speech acts.
Poetics Today,2(4):89?95.
[BRO] Erin Brockovich.
2000.
Directed by StevenSoderbergh.
Written by Susannah Grant.
JerseyFilms.Jean Carletta, Amy Isard, Stephen Isard, Jacqueline C.Kowtko, Gwyneth Doherty-Sneddon, Anne H. An-derson.
1997.
The Reliability of A Dialogue Struc-ture Coding Scheme.
Computational Linguistics,23(1):13?31.Mark Core and James Allen.
1997.
Coding dialogswith the DAMSL annotation scheme.
In WorkingNotes of the AAAI Fall Symposium on Communica-tive Action in Humans and Machines, pages 28?35.William A. Corsaro.
1977.
The clarification requestas a feature of adult interactive styles with youngchildren.
Language in Society, 6:183?207.
[FUG] The Fugitive.
1993.
Directed by AndrewDavis.
Written by Roy Huggins, David Twohy andJeb Stuart.
Warner Bros. Pictures.Michael L. Geis.
1995.
Speech acts and conversa-tional interaction.
Cambridge University Press.Frieda Goldman-Eisler.
1968.
Psycholinguistics: Ex-periments in spontaneous speech.
Academic Press.H.
Paul Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In P.Cole and J. Morgan, editors, Syntax and semantics3: Speech acts.
Academic Press.Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
1986.
Atten-tion, intentions, and the structure of discourse.
Com-putational Linguistics, 12(3):175?204.
[JAW] Jaws.
1975.
Directed by Steven Spielberg.Written by Peter Benchley (based on his novel) andCarl Gottlieb.
Zanuck/Brown Productions ?
Univer-sal Pictures.Daniel Jurafsky, Elizabeth Shriberg and Debra Biasca.1997.
Switchboard SWBD-DAMSL labeling projectcoder?s manual, Draft 13.
TR 97-02, University ofColorado Institute of Cognitive Science.Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin.
2000.
Speechand language processing: An introduction to naturallanguage processing, computational linguistics, andspeech recognition.
Prentice Hall.Daniel Jurafsky.
2004.
Pragmatics and computationallinguistics.
In L. R. Horn and G. L. Ward, editors,The handbook of pragmatics, chapter 26.
Blackwell.Alessandro Lenci.
1994.
A relevance-based approachto speech acts.
In E. Fava, editor, Speech acts andlinguistic research.
Proceedings of the workshop,July 15?17, 1994, Center of Cognitive Science ofNew York at Buffalo.
Nemo, 1995.Lori Levin, Ann Thyme?-Gobbel, Alon Lavie, KlausRies and Klaus Zechner.
1998.
A discourse codingscheme for conversational Spanish.
In Proceedingsof ICSLP 98, 6:2335?2338.C.
Raymond Perrault and James F. Allen.
1980.
Aplan-based analysis of indirect speech acts.
Amer-ican Journal of Computational Linguistics, 6:167?182.Kenneth L. Pike.
1945.
The intonation of Ameri-can English.
University of Michigan Publications.Reprinted in part as Chapter 3 in D. Bolinger, editor,Intonation, Penguin Books, 1972.Kenneth L. Pike.
1954.
Language in relation to a uni-fied theory of the structure of human behavior.
Sum-mer institute of linguistics.Matthew Purver, Jonathan Ginzburg and PatrickHealey.
2003.
On the means for clarification in di-alogue.
In J. C. J.
Van Kuppevelt and R. W. Smith,editors, Current and New Directions in Discourse &Dialogue.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.Matthew Purver.
2004.
The theory and use of clari-fication requests in dialogue.
Ph.D. thesis.
King?sCollege, University of London.Nira Reiss.
2004.
Speech act taxonomy as a tool forethnographic description (Pragmatics and BeyondVI:7).
John Benjamins.Kepa J.
Rodr?
?guez and David Schlangen.
2004.
Form,intonation and function of clarification requests inGerman task-oriented spoken dialogues.
In Pro-ceedings of Catalog ?04 (The 8th Workshop on theSemantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue, SemDial04),pages 101?108.John R. Searle.
1969.
Speech acts: An essay in the phi-losophy of language.
Cambridge University Press.John R. Searle.
1979.
Expression and meaning: Stud-ies in the theory of speech acts.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.Andreas Stolcke, Klaus Ries, Noah Coccaro, ElizabethShriberg, Rebecca Bates, Daniel Jurafsky, Paul Tay-lor, Rachel Martin, Marie Meteer and Carol Van Ess-Dykema.
2000.
Dialog act modeling for automatictagging and recognition of conversational speech.Computational linguistics, 26:98?105.Michael Stubbs.
1983.
Discourse analysis: The soci-olinguistic analysis of natural language (Languagein Society 4).
Basil Blackwell Ltd.David R. Traum and Elizabeth A. Hinkelman.
1992.Conversation acts in task-oriented spoken dialogue.Computational Intelligence, 8(3):575?599.18
