Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 108?111,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPThe Coding Scheme for Annotating Extended Nominal Coreferenceand Bridging Anaphora in the Prague Dependency TreebankAnna Nedoluzhko,  Ji??
M?rovsk?,  Petr PajasCharles University in PragueInstitute of Formal and Applied Linguistics{nedoluzko, mirovsky, pajas}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThe present paper outlines an ongoing projectof annotation of the extended nominal corefer-ence and the bridging anaphora in the PragueDependency Treebank.
We describe the anno-tation  scheme  with  respect  to  the  linguisticclassification of coreferential and bridging re-lations and focus also on details of the annota-tion process from the technical point of view.We present methods of helping the annotators?
by  a  pre-annotation  and  by  several  usefulfeatures  implemented  in  the  annotation  tool.Our method of the inter-annotator agreementis focused on the improvement of the annota-tion  guidelines;  we  present  results  of  threesubsequent measurements of the agreement.1 IntroductionThe Prague Dependency Treebank (PDT 2.0) is alarge collection  of linguistically  annotated  dataand documentation (Haji?
et al, 2006).
In PDT2.0,  Czech  newspaper  texts  are  annotated  onthree  layers.
The most abstract  (tectogrammati-cal) layer includes the annotation of coreferentiallinks of two types: grammatical coreference (typ-ically within a single sentence) and textual coref-erence (for pronominal and zero anaphora).
Thecurrent paper focuses on the present annotationof  extended  textual  coreference,  where  theanaphoric  expression  is  neither  personal  pro-noun, nor zero.
Also the annotation of bridginganaphora on PDT is discussed.In the last few years, a number of annotationschemes have been released, three of which areto be shortly presented here.
The MUC is consid-ered to be the most standard annotation scheme(Hirschman, 1997) and it  is  used in more thanone  application  (MUC-6,  MUC-7,  ACE).
Theadvantage of this scheme is its simplicity and avery  detailed  linguistically  oriented  codingscheme.
It  has  been  however  criticized  for  itsvague interpretation of the notion of coreferenceand for  the  limited  coverage of  relations  (onlyidentical  relation  between  nouns  is  annotated).One of the most well known later approaches isMATE (Poesio, 2004)  and its  extension on theGNOME  corpus.
The  project  is  meant  to  bemulti-functional.
The annotation scheme was pri-marily  developed  for  dialog  acts  analyses,  butmay be easily  adapted  for  any other  investiga-tion.
In the extended GNOME scheme, the iden-tical  coreference  is  annotated  along with  somebridging  relations,  such  as  ELEMENT,  SUB-SET,  POSSession  and  OTHER for  underspeci-fied relations.
In PoCoS (Krasavina and Chiar-chos, 2007), a two layer coreference annotationscheme was suggested: the Core Layer is generaland reusable, while the Extended Layer supportsa wider range of specific extensions.In this document, we present the application ofcoreference  annotation  on  a  slavonic  language(Czech).
Czech  has  no  definite  article,  so  inmany cases, an anaphoric relation cannot be eas-ily identified.
That's why we concentrated solelyon coreference, i.e.
on the case when two expres-sions denote the same entity.
Anaphoric relationbetween  non-coreferential  objects  is  annotatedseparately,  together  with  some  other  types  ofbridging anaphora (see 2.1).2 Methods of coreference and bridginganaphora annotationSubject to annotation are pairs of coreferring ex-pressions, the preceding expression is called an-tecedent, the subsequent one is called anaphor.The  (mostly  manual)  annotation  of  the  ex-tended  coreference  and  bridging  anaphora  pro-ceeds  basically  in  one  phase.
UnlikeMUC/MATE/PoCoS projects,  where  annotationis divided into two phases (identifying  elementsthat can come in coreference relation (so called?markables?)
and  establishing  anaphoric  rela-tion), we do not make preliminary annotation of?markables?.
Realizing the disadvantage of diffi-cult agreement comparison, we still think that toseparate identifying ?markables?
is unnecessaryin case of a language without grammatical cate-gory of definiteness.1082.1 The annotation schemeFor the time being, we annotate textual corefer-ence and bridging anaphora.
In what follows, webriefly  present  the  classification  of  these  twotypes of context-dependences.The  cases  where  anaphor  is  a  personal,demonstrative or zero pronoun are already anno-tated in PDT.
In the present annotation, the mostcases of anaphoric expressions are expressed byNP with  nominal  head,  in  some cases  also  bypronominal  demonstrative  adverbs  (there,  thenetc.
),  adjectives  (by  named  entities  (e.g.
Ger-many ?
German) and possessive forms)), numer-als or verbs (own ?
ownership), see ex.
(1).Textual coreference is further classified intotwo types ?
coreference of NPs with specific  orgeneric coreference.
This decision is made on thebasis of the expectation, that generic coreferen-tial  chains  have  different  anaphoric  rules  fromthe specific ones.
Into this group, there is also in-cluded  a  big number  of  abstract  nouns,  whosecoreference is not quite clear in every particularcase.
So, the generic type of textual coreferenceserves as the ambiguity group too.In  bridging anaphora we distinguish PART,SUBSET and FUNCT traditional  relations  (seee.g.
Clark 1977), CONTRAST for coherence rel-evant  discourse  opposites  (e.g.
People don'tchew, it's cows who chew) and further underspec-ified group REST, which is  used  for capturingbridging references ?
potential  candidates for  anew bridging group (e.g.
location ?
resident, rel-atives, event ?
argument and some others).2.2 Annotation PrinciplesIn order to develop maximally consistent annota-tion scheme, we follow a number of basic princi-ples.
Some of them are presented below:Chain principle: coreference relations in textare organized in ordered chains.
The most recentmention  of  a referent  is  marked  as  antecedent.This  principle  is  controlled  automatically  (see3.1.2).
Chain principle does not concern bridginganaphora.Principle of the maximum length of corefer-encial  chains also  concerns  only  the  case  ofcoreference.
It  says  that  in  case  of  multiplechoice, we prefer to continue the existing coref-erence chain, rather than to begin a new one.
Tosatisfy  this  principle,  grammatical  coreferentialchains are being continued by textual ones, andalready annotated  textual  coreferences  are con-tinued  by  currently  annotated   non-pronominallinks in turn.The principle of maximal size of an anaforicexpression:  subject  to annotation is always thewhole  subtree  of  the  antecedent/anaphor.
Thisprinciple is partially directed by the dependencystructure  of tectogrammatical trees  and may besometimes counter-intuitive.
See ex.
(1):(1)Henry's brother Nicholas has owned theHall  for  27  years.
On  Nicholas'  death,  itpassed  into  the  ownership  of  his  nephew,Yarburgh GreameThe principle of cooperation with the syntac-tic structure of a given dependency tree: we donot annotate relations, which are already caughtup by the  syntactic  structure  of  the  tectogram-matical tree.
So, unlike most schemes, we do notannotate predication and apposition relations.Preference  of  coreference  over  bridginganaphora: in case of multiple choice, we prefercoreference.3 The Tool and Data FormatThe primary format of PDT 2.0 is called PML.
Itis  an  abstract  XML-based  format  designed  forannotation of treebanks.
For editing and process-ing data in PML format, a fully customizable treeeditor  TrEd  has  been  implemented  (Pajas  &?t?p?nek 2008).TrEd  can  be  easily  customized  to  a  desiredpurpose by extensions that are included into thesystem as modules.
In this section, we describesome features of an extension that has been im-plemented for our purposes.The data  scheme used  in  PDT 2.0 has  beenslightly extended to support the annotation of theextended textual  coreference (that  has ?
unlikethe originally annotated textual coreference ?
atype)  and  the  bridging  anaphora  (that  has  notbeen annotated before and also has a type).
Tech-nically,  various  kinds  of  non-dependency  rela-tions between nodes in PDT 2.0 use dedicated re-ferring  attributes  that  contain unique identifiersof the nodes they refer to.3.1 Helping the AnnotatorsWe employ two ways of helping the annotatorsin their  tedious  task.
First,  we pre-annotate thedata with highly probable coreference relations.The annotators check these links and can removethem  if  they  are  wrong.
This  approach  hasproved to be faster than letting the annotators an-notate  the  data  from scratch.
Second,  we haveimplemented several supporting features into theannotation  tool  (the  TrEd  extension)  that  helpduring the annotation process.1093.1.1 Pre-AnnotationWe use a list of pairs of words that with a highprobability  form  a  coreferential  pair  in  texts.Most of the pairs in the list consist of a noun anda derived adjective, which are different in Czech,e.g.
Praha  ?
pra?sk?
(in  English:  Prague  ?Prague,  like  in  the  sentence:  He  arrived  inPrague and found the Prague atmosphere quitecasual).
The rest  of the list  is formed by pairsconsisting  of  an abbreviation  and its  one-wordexpansion, e.g.
?R ?
?esko (similarly in English:USA ?
States).
The whole list consists of morethan  6  thousand  pairs  obtained  automaticallyfrom  the  morphological  synthesizer  for  Czech,manually checked and slightly extended.3.1.2 AnnotationSeveral features have been implemented in theannotation tool to help with the annotation.Manual  pre-annotation: If  the  annotatorfinds a word in the text that appears many timesin the document and its occurrences seem to co-refer,  he can create a coreferential chain out ofthese  words  by  a  single  key-stroke.
All  nodesthat  have  the  same  tectogrammatical  lemma(t_lemma) become a part of the chain.Finding the nearest antecedent: The annota-tion  instructions  require  that  the  nearest  an-tecedent is always selected for the coreferentiallink.
The  tool  automatically  re-directs  a  newlycreated coreferential arrow to the nearest one (inthe already existing coreferential chain) if the an-notator  selects  a farther  antecedent  by mistake.However, the rule of the nearest antecedent canbe broken in less clear situations.
For example, ifthere are three coreferential words in the text, A,B and C (ordered from left to right), and the an-notator connects A and C (overlooking B), andlater realizes that B is also coreferential with Aand creates the arrow from B to A, the tool re-connects  the  C?A arrow  to  C?B.
Thus,  thechain C?B?A is correctly created.Preserving the coreferential chain: If the an-notator  removes  an  arrow  and  a  coreferentialchain is thus interrupted, the tool asks the anno-tator whether it should re-connect the chain.Text highlighting: The annotation of the ex-tended  textual  coreference  and  the  bridginganaphora is  performed on the tectogrammaticallayer of PDT.
However, the annotators prefer towork on the surface form of the text, using thetectogrammatical trees only as a supporting de-piction of the relations.
After selecting a word inthe sentences (by clicking on it), the tool deter-mines  to  which  node  in  the  tectogrammaticaltrees the word belongs.
Then, the projection backto the surface is performed and all words on thesurface that belong to the selected node are high-lighted.
Only one word of the highlighted wordsis a lexical counterpart of the tectogrammaticalnode  (which  is  usually  the  word  the  annotatorclicked on ?
only in cases such as if the annotatorclicks on a preposition or other auxiliary word,the lexical counterpart of the corresponding tec-togrammatical  node  differs  from  the  wordclicked  on).
Using  this  information,  also  allwords  in  the  sentences  that  have  the  samet_lemma (again, we use only the lexical counter-parts)  as  the  selected  word,  are  underlined.Words that are connected with the selected wordvia a coreferential chain are highlighted in suchcolors that indicate whether the last connectingrelation in the chain was textual or grammatical.Moreover,  all  words  that  are  connected  via  abridging anaphora with any word of this corefer-ential chain, are highlighted in a specific color.4 Application and EvaluationThe annotation of the extended textual  corefer-ence  and  the  bridging  anaphora  started  in  No-vember 2008.
Two annotators work on differenttexts  (each document  is  annotated only by oneannotator),  except  for  a small  overlap  used formeasuring the inter-annotator agreement.As of April 2009, about one fifth of PDT 2.0data  has been  annotated.
The detailed  numbersare summed in Table 1:number of annotated documents 611total number of sentences 9,425total number of words 157,817total number of tectogrammatical nodes(excl.
the technical root) 127,954number of newly annotated co-referringnodes  (bridging  relations  and  textualcoreference)16,874number of co-referring nodes includingthe textual coreference originally anno-tated in PDT 2.020,532% of co-referring nodes 16 %Table 1.
Annotation statisticsFigure 1 presents the proportion of  types ofcoreferential  and  bridging  relations  in  the  cur-rently annotated part of PDT1.
TK_0 is used fortextual coreference of specific NPs, TK_NR fortextual  coreference  of  non-specific  NPs,  otherabbreviations are believed to be self-explaining.1  Including the originally annotated textual coreferencein PDT 2.0.110Inter-annotator agreement: For the purposesof checking and improving the annotation guide-lines,  we  require  a  more  strict  inter-annotatoragreement than agreement  on sets  (for  corefer-ence),  often  used  in  other  projects  (e.g.
Pas-soneau  2004).
For  both  the  extended  textualcoreference  and the  bridging anaphora,  we useF1-measure for the agreement on the antecedent,and Cohen's  ?
(Cohen 1960) for the agreementon the type of the link.
In Table 2, the results ofthe three performed measurements of the inter-annotator agreement are presented:arrowsTC (F1)arrowsTC +types(F1)TCtypesonly(?
)arrowsbridging(F1)arrowsbridging+types (F1)bridgingtypesonly(?
)1st measure-ment(40 sent.)
0.76 0.67 0.54 0.49 0.42 0.792nd measure-ment(40 sent.)
0.64 0.41 0.33 0.52 0.52 13rdmeasure-ment(100 sent.)
0.80 0.68 0.67 0.59 0.57 0.88Table 2.
Evaluation of the inter-annotator agreement5 ConclusionWe have presented the annotation scheme andprinciples  for  the  extended  textual  coreferenceand the bridging anaphora in PDT 2.0.Pre-annotation and features of the annotationtool that help the annotators have been describedin detail.
We have presented basic statistics aboutthe  annotation  completed  so  far  and  results  offirst  measurements of the inter-annotator agree-ment (which are difficult to compare to other ap-proaches, as we do not use "markables").Improvement of the inter-annotator agreementis  in  our  focus  for  the  upcoming  stage  of  theproject.
The experience shows that the agreementis greatly affected by parameters of the text as awhole.
Short texts are generally far less demand-ing for their interpretation than longer ones, textswith  many  abstract  and  general  notions  allowmore  possibilities  of  interpretation  and  so  on.Frequent  problems  causing  inter-annotator  dis-agreement  are  of  two  types  -  different  under-standing  of  the  content  and  inaccuracy  of  thecoding  scheme.
The  first  case  is  hardly  to  besolved entirely.
The problems of the second typeare  being  worked  on:  we  prepare  the  detailedclassification of the inter-annotator disagreementand regularly specify the annotation guidelines.AcknowledgmentWe gratefully  acknowledge  the support  of theCzech  Ministry  of  Education  (grant  MSM-0021620838),  the  Czech  Grant  Agency  (grant405/09/0729), the European Union (project Com-panions  ?
FP6-IST-5-034434),  and  the  GrantAgency  of  the  Academy  of  Sciences  of  theCzech Republic (project 1ET101120503).ReferencesClark, H. 1977.
Bridging.
In Johnson-Laird and Wa-son, editors,  Thinking: Readings in Cognitive Sci-ence.
Cambridge.
411-420.Cohen, J.
1960.
A coefficient of agreement for nomi-nal  scales.
Educational  and  Psychological  Mea-surement, 20(1), 37-46.Haji?,  J.  et  al.
2006.
Prague  Dependency  Treebank2.0.CD-ROM,  Linguistic  Data  Consortium,  LDCCatalog No.
: LDC2006T01, Philadelphia.Hirschman, L. 1997.
MUC-7 coreference task defini-tion.
Version 3.0.Krasavina, O. and  Ch.
Chiarcos.
2007.
PoCoS ?
Pots-dam  Coreference  Scheme.
Proc.
of  ACL  2007,Prague, Czech RepublicKu?ov?
L. and E. Haji?ov?.
2004.
Coreferential Rela-tions in the Prague Dependency Treebank.
In 5thDiscourse Anaphora and Anaphor Resolution Col-loquium.
Edi?
?es Colibri.Pajas, P. and J.
?t?p?nek 2008.
Recent advances in afeature-rich framework for treebank annotation.
InThe 22nd Interntional Conference on Computatio-nal  Linguistics  ?
Proceedings  of  the  Conference.Manchester, pp.
673-680.Passonneau, R. 2004.
Computing Reliability for Core-ference.
In Proceedings of LREC, vol.
4, Lisbon,pp.
1503-1506.Poesio, M. 2004 The MATE/GNOME Proposals forAnaphoric  Annotation,  Revisited.
Proc.
of  SIG-DIAL.Figure 1.
Types of  relations111
