Proceedings of the NAACL HLT Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 34?42,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsSupporting the Adaptation of Texts for Poor Literacy Readers: a TextSimplification Editor for Brazilian PortugueseArnaldo Candido Jr., Erick Maziero, Caroline Gasperin, Thiago A. S. Pardo, Lucia Specia, and Sandra M. AluisioCenter of Computational Linguistics (NILC) / Department of Computer Sciences, University of S?o PauloAv.
Trabalhador S?o-Carlense, 400.
13560-970 - S?o Carlos/SP, Brazilarnaldoc@icmc.usp.br, egmaziero@gmail.com, {cgasperin,taspardo,lspecia,sandra}@icmc.usp.brAbstractIn this paper we investigate the task of textsimplification for Brazilian Portuguese.
Ourpurpose is three-fold: to introduce asimplification tool for such language and itsunderlying development methodology, topresent an on-line authoring system ofsimplified text based on the previous tool, andfinally to discuss the potentialities of suchtechnology for education.
The resources andtools we present are new for Portuguese andinnovative in many aspects with respect toprevious initiatives for other languages.1 IntroductionIn Brazil, according to the index used to measurethe literacy level of the population (INAF - NationalIndicator of Functional Literacy), a vast number ofpeople belong to the so called rudimentary and basicliteracy levels.
These people are only able to findexplicit information in short texts (rudimentarylevel) or process slightly longer texts and makesimple inferences (basic level).
INAF reports that68% of the 30.6 million Brazilians between 15 and64 years who have studied up to 4 years remain atthe rudimentary literacy level, and 75% of the 31.1million who studied up to 8 years remain at therudimentary or basic levels.Reading comprehension entails three elements:the reader who is meant to comprehend; the text thatis to be comprehended and the activity in whichcomprehension is a part of (Snow, 2002).
Inaddition to the content presented in the text, thevocabulary load of the text and its linguisticstructure, discourse style, and genre interact with thereader?s knowledge.
When these factors do notmatch the reader?s knowledge and experience, thetext becomes too complex for the comprehension tooccur.
In this paper we will focus on the text and theaspects of it that make reading difficult or easy.
Onesolution to ease the syntactic structure of a text isvia Text Simplification (TS) facilities.TS aims to maximize the comprehension ofwritten texts through the simplification of theirlinguistic structure.
This may involve simplifyinglexical and syntactic phenomena, by substitutingwords that are only understood by a few people withwords that are more usual, and by breaking downand changing the syntactic structure of the sentence,respectively.
As a result, it is expected that the textcan be more easily understood both by humans andcomputer systems (Mapleson, 2006; Siddharthan,2003, Max, 2006).
TS may also involve droppingparts or full sentences and adding some extramaterial to explain a difficult point.
This is the case,for example, of the approach presented by Petersenand Ostendorf (2007), in which abridged versions ofarticles are used in adult literacy learning.It has already been shown that long sentences,conjoined sentences, embedded clauses, passives,non-canonical word order, and use of low-frequencywords, among other things, increase text complexityfor language-impaired readers (Siddharthan, 2002;Klebanov et al, 2004; Devlin and Unthank, 2006).The Plain English initiative makes availableguidelines to make texts easier to comprehend: thePlain Language1.
In principle, its recommendationscan be applied to any language.
Although some ofthem are directly useful for TS systems (e.g.,subject-verb-object order and active voice), othersare difficult to specify (e.g., how simple eachsyntactic construction is and which words aresimple).In this paper we present the results of a study ofsyntactic simplification for Brazilian Portuguese(BP) and a rule-based syntactic simplificationsystem for this language that was developed basedon this study ?
the first of this kind for BP.
We alsopresent an on-line authoring tool for creatingsimplified texts.
One possible application of thistool is to help teachers to produce instructional texts1http://www.plainlanguage.gov34to be used in classrooms.
The study is part of thePorSimples project2 (Simplification of PortugueseText for Digital Inclusion and Accessibility), whichaims at producing text simplification tools forpromoting digital inclusion and accessibility forpeople with different levels of literacy, and possiblyother kinds of reading disabilities.This paper is organized as follows.
In Section 2we present related approaches for text simplificationwith educational purposes.
In Section 3 we describethe proposed approach for syntactic simplification,which is used within an authoring tool described inSection 4.
In Section 5 we discuss possible uses oftext simplification for educational purposes.2 Related workBurstein (2009) presents an NLP-based applicationfor educational purposes, named Text Adaptor,which resembles our authoring tool.
It includescomplex sentence highlighting, text elaboration(word substitutions by easier ones), textsummarization and translation.
The system does notperform syntactic simplification, but simplysuggests, using a shallow parser, that somesentences might be too complex.
Specific hints onthe actual source of complexity are not provided.Petersen (2007) addresses the task of textsimplification in the context of second-languagelearning.
A data-driven approach to simplification isproposed using a corpus of paired articles in whicheach original sentence does not necessarily have acorresponding simplified sentence, making itpossible to learn where writers have dropped orsimplified sentences.
A classifier is used to selectthe sentences to simplify, and Siddharthan?ssyntactic simplification system (Siddharthan, 2003)is used to split the selected sentences.
In ourapproach, we do not drop sentences, since webelieve that all the content must be kept in the text.Siddharthan proposes a syntactic simplificationarchitecture that relies on shallow text analysis andfavors time performance.
The general goal of thearchitecture is to make texts more accessible to abroader audience; it has not targeted any particularapplication.
The system treats apposition, relativeclauses, coordination and subordination.
Ourmethod, on the other hand, relies on deep parsing(Bick, 2000).
We treat the same phenomena as2http://caravelas.icmc.usp.br/wiki/index.php/PrincipalSiddharthan, but also deal with Subject-Verb-Objectordering (in Portuguese sentences can be written indifferent orders) and passive to active voiceconversion.
Siddharthan's system deals with non-finite clauses which are not handled by our systemat this stage.Lal and Ruger?s (2002) created a bayesiansummarizer with a built-in lexical simplificationmodule, based on WordNet and MRC psycho-linguistic database3.
The system focuses onschoolchildren and provides backgroundinformation about people and locations in the text,which are retrieved from databases.
Our rule-basedsimplification system only replaces discoursemarkers for more common ones using lexicalresources built in our project, instead of insertingadditional information in the text.Max (2005, 2006) applies text simplification inthe writing process by embedding an interactive textsimplification system into a word processor.
At theuser?s request, an automatic parser analyzes anindividual sentence and the system applieshandcrafted rewriting rules.
The resulting suggestedsimplifications are ranked by a score of syntacticcomplexity and potential change of meaning.
Thewriter then chooses their preferred simplification.This system ensures accurate output, but requireshuman intervention at every step.
Our system, onthe other hand, is autonomous, even though the useris able to undo any undesirable simplification or tochoose alternative simplifications.
These alternativesimplifications may be produced in two cases: i) tocompose a new subject in simplifications involvingrelatives and appositions and ii) to choose amongone of the coordinate or subordinate simplificationswhen there is ambiguity regarding to conjunctions.Inui et al (2003) proposes a rule-based systemfor text simplification aimed at deaf people.
Theauthors create readability assessments based onquestionnaires answered by teachers about the deaf.With approximately one thousand manually createdrules, the authors generate several paraphrases foreach sentence and train a classifier to select thesimpler ones.
Promising results are obtained,although different types of errors on the paraphrasegeneration are encountered, such as problems withverb conjugation and regency.
In our work weproduce alternative simplifications only in the twocases explained above.3http://www.psych.rl.ac.uk/35Caseli et al (2009) developed an annotationeditor to support the building of parallel corpora oforiginal and simplified texts in BrazilianPortuguese.
The tool was used to build a corpus ofsimplified texts aimed at people with rudimentaryand basic literacy levels.
We have used the parallelcorpus to evaluate our rule-based simplificationsystem.
The on-line authoring system presented inthis paper evolved from this annotation editor.There are also commercial systems like Simplus4and StyleWriter5, which aim to support PlainEnglish writing.3 A rule-based syntactic simplificationsystemOur text simplification system comprises sevenoperations (see Sections 3.1 and 3.2), which areapplied to a text in order to make its syntacticstructure simpler.
These operations are appliedsentence by sentence, following the 3-stagearchitecture proposed by Siddharthan (2002), whichincludes stages of analysis, transformation andregeneration.
In Siddharthan?s work, the analysisstage performs the necessary linguistic analyses ofthe input sentences, such as POS tagging andchunking; the transformation stage appliessimplification rules, producing simplified versionsof the sentences; the regeneration stage performsoperations on the simplified sentences to make themreadable, like referring expressions generation, cuewords rearrangement, and sentence ordering.Differently from such architecture, currently ourregeneration stage only includes the treatment ofcue words and a surface forms (GSF) generator,which is used to adjust the verb conjugation andregency after some simplification operations.As a single sentence may contain more thanone complex linguistic phenomenon, simplificationoperations are applied in cascade to a sentence, asdescribed in what follows.3.1 Simplification cases and operationsAs result of a study on which linguistic phenomenamake BP text complex to read and how thesephenomena could be simplified, we elaborated amanual of BP syntactic simplification (Aluisio et al,2008).
The rule-based text simplification system4http://www.linguatechnologies.com/english/home.html5http://www.editorsoftware.com/writing-softwaredeveloped here is based on the specifications in thismanual.
According to this manual, simplificationoperations should be applied when any of the 22linguistic phenomena presented in Table 1 isdetected.The possible operations suggested to be appliedin order to simplify these phenomena are: (a) splitthe sentence, (b) change a discourse marker by asimpler and/or more frequent one (the indication isto avoid the ambiguous ones), (c) change passive toactive voice, (d) invert the order of the clauses, (e)convert to subject-verb-object ordering, (f) changetopicalization and detopicalization of adverbialphrases and (g) non-simplification.Table 1 shows the list of all simplificationphenomena covered by our manual, the clues usedto identify the phenomena, the simplificationoperations that should be applied in each case, theexpected order of clauses in the resulting sentence,and the cue phrases (translated here fromPortuguese) used to replace complex discoursemarkers or to glue two sentences.
In column 2, weconsider the following clues: syntactic information(S), punctuation (P), and lexicalized clues, such asconjunctions (Cj), relative pronouns (Pr) anddiscourse markers (M), and semantic information(Sm, and NE for named entities).3.2 Identifying simplification cases andapplying simplification rulesEach sentence is parsed in order to identify cases forsimplification.
We use parser PALAVRAS (Bick,2000) for Portuguese.
This parser provides lexicalinformation (morphology, lemma, part-of-speech,and semantic information) and the syntactic trees foreach sentence.
For some operations, surfaceinformation (such as punctuation or lexicalized cuephrases) is used to identify the simplification cases,as well as to assist simplification process.
Forexample, to detect and simplify subjective non-restrictive relative clauses (where the relativepronoun is the subject of the relative clause), thefollowing steps are performed:1.
The presence of a relative pronoun is verified.2.
Punctuation is verified in order to distinguish itfrom restrictive relative clauses: check if thepronoun occurs after a comma or semicolon.3.
Based on the position of the pronoun, the nextpunctuation symbol is searched to define theboundaries of the relative clause.364.
The first part of the simplified text is generated,consisting of the original sentence without theembedded relative clause.5.
The noun phrase in the original sentence towhich the relative clause refers is identified.6.
A second simplified sentence is generated,consisting of the noun phrase (as subject) andthe relative clause (without the pronoun).The identification of the phenomena and theapplication of the operations are prone to errorsthough.
Some of the clues that indicate theoccurrence of the phenomena may be ambiguous.For example, some of the discourse markers that areused to identify subordinate clauses can indicatemore than one type of these: for instance, ?como?
(in English ?like?, ?how?
or ?as?)
can indicatereason, conformative or concessive subordinateclauses.
Since there is no other clue that can help usdisambiguate among those, we always select thecase that occurs more frequently according to acorpus study of discourse markers and the rhetoricrelations that they entitle (Pardo and Nunes, 2008).However, we can also treat all cases and let the userdecide the simplifications that is most appropriate.Phenomenon Clues Op Clause Order Cue phrase Comments1.Passive voice S c   Verb may have to be adapted2.Embedded appositive S a Original/App.Appositive: Subject is the head of original +to be in present tense + apposition3.Asyndetic coordinate clause S a Keep order   New sentences: Subjects are the head of theoriginal subject4.Additive coordinate clause S, Cj a Keep order Keep marker Marker appears in the beginning of the newsentence5.Adversative coordinate clause M a, b Keep order But6.Correlated coordinate clause M a, b Keep order Also Original markers disappear7.Result coordinate clause S, M a, b Keep order As a result8.Reason coordinate clause S, M a, b Keep order This happensbecauseMay need some changes in verb9.Reason subordinate clause M a, b,dSub/Main With this To keep the ordering cause, resultM a, b Main/Sub Also Rule for such ... as, so ... as markers  10.Comparative subordinate clauseM g   Rule for the other markers or short sentencesM a, b,dSub/Main But ?Clause 1 although clause 2?
is changed to?Clause 2.
But clause 1?11.Concessive subordinate clauseM a, b Main/Sub This happenseven ifRule for hypothetical sentences12.Conditional subordinate clause S, M d Sub/Main  Pervasive use in simple accounts13.
Result subordinate clause M a, b Main/Sub Thus May need some changes in verb14.Final/Purpose subordinate clause S, M a, b Main/Sub The goal is15.Confirmative subordinate clause M a, b,dSub/Main ConfirmsthatMay need some changes in verbM a Sub/Main  May need some changes in verb 16.Time subordinate clauseM a, b  Then Rule for markers: after that, as soon as17.
Proportional Subordinate Clause M g18.
Non-finite subordinate clause S g19.Non-restrictive relative clause S, P, Pr a Original/RelativeRelative: Subject is the head of original +relative (subjective relative clause)20.Restrictive relative clause S, Pr a Relative/OriginalRelative: Subject is the head of original +relative  (subjective relative clause)21.Non Subject-Verb-Object order S e   Rewrite in Subject-Verb-Object order22.
Adverbial phrases in themepositionS, NE,Smf In study  In studyTable 1: Cases, operations, order and cue phrasesEvery phenomenon has one or moresimplification steps associated with it, which areapplied to perform the simplification operations.Below we detail each operation and discuss thechallenges involved and our current limitations intheir implementing.a) Splitting the sentence - This operation is themost frequent one.
It requires finding the split point37in the original sentence (such as the boundaries ofrelative clauses and appositions, the position ofcoordinate or subordinate conjunctions) and thecreation of a new sentence, whose subjectcorresponds to the replication of a noun phrase inthe original sentence.
This operation increases thetext length, but decreases the length of thesentences.
With the duplication of the term from theoriginal sentence (as subject of the new sentence),the resulting text contains redundant information,but it is very helpful for people at the rudimentaryliteracy level.When splitting sentences due to the presence ofapposition, we need to choose the element in theoriginal sentence to which it is referring, so that thiselement can be the subject of the new sentence.
Atthe moment we analyze all NPs that precede theapposition and check for gender and numberagreement.
If more than one candidate passes theagreement test, we choose the closest one amongthese; if none does, we choose the closest among allcandidates.
In both cases we can also pass thedecision on to the user, which we do in ourauthoring tool described in Section 4.For treating relative clauses we have the sameproblem as for apposition (finding the NP to whichthe relative clause is anchored) and an additionalone: we need to choose if the referent found shouldbe considered the subject or the object of the newsentence.
Currently, the parser indicates thesyntactic function of the relative pronoun and thatserves as a clue.b) Changing discourse marker - In most casesof subordination and coordination, discoursemarkers are replaced by most commonly used ones,which are more easily understood.
The selection ofdiscourse markers to be replaced and the choice ofnew markers (shown in Table 1, col. 4) are donebased on the study of Pardo and Nunes (2008).c) Transformation to active voice - Clauses inthe passive voice are turned into active voice, withthe reordering of the elements in the clause and themodification of the tense and form of the verb.
Anyother phrases attached to the object of the originalsentence have to be carried with it when it moves tothe subject position, since the voice changingoperation is the first to be performed.
For instance,the sentence:?More than 20 people have been bitten by gold piranhas(Serrasalmus Spilopleura), which live in the waters of theSanchuri dam, next to the BR-720 highway, 40 km fromthe city.
?is simplified to:?Gold piranhas (Serrasalmus Spilopleura), which live inthe waters of the Sanchuri dam, next to the BR-720highway, 40 km from the city, have bitten more than 20people.
?After simplification of the relative clause andapposition, the final sentence is:?Gold piranhas have bitten more than 20 people.
Goldpiranhas live in the waters of the Sanchuri dam, next tothe BR-720 highway, 40 km from the city.
Gold piranhasare Serrasalmus Spilopleura.
?d) Inversion of clause ordering - This operationwas primarily designed to handle subordinateclauses, by moving the main clause to the beginningof the sentence, in order to help the readerprocessing it on their working memory (Graesser etal., 2004).
Each of the subordination cases has amore appropriate order for main and subordinateclauses (as shown in Table 1, col. 3), so that?independent?
information is placed before theinformation that depends on it.
In the case ofconcessive subordinate clauses, for example, thesubordinate clause is placed before the main clause.This gives the sentence a logical order of theexpressed ideas.
See the example below, in whichthere is also a change of discourse marker andsentence splitting, all operations assigned toconcessive subordinate clauses:?The building hosting the Brazilian Consulate was alsoevacuated, although the diplomats have obtainedpermission to carry on working.
?Its simplified version becomes:?The diplomats have obtained permission to carry onworking.
But the building hosting the Brazilian Consulatewas also evacuated.
?e) Subject-Verb-Object ordering - If a sentenceis not in the form of subject-verb-object, it should berearranged.
This operation is based only oninformation from the syntactic parser.
The examplebelow shows a case in which the subject is after theverb (translated literally from Portuguese,preserving the order of the elements):?On the 9th of November of 1989, fell the wall that foralmost three decades divided Germany.
?Its simplified version is:?On the 9th of November of 1989, the wall that for almostthree decades divided Germany fell.
?Currently the only case we are treating is the non-canonical order Verb-Object-Subject.
We plan totreat other non-canonical orderings in the nearfuture.
Besides that, we still have to define how todeal with elliptic subjects and impersonal verbs(which in Portuguese do not require a subject).38When performing this operation and the previousone, a generator of surface forms (GSF) is used toadjust the verb conjugation and regency.
The GSF iscompiled from the Apertium morphologicaldictionaries enhanced with the entries of Unitex-BP(Muniz et al, 2005), with an extra processing tomap the tags of the parser to those existing inmorphological dictionaries (Caseli et al, 2007) toobtain an adjusted verb in the modified sentence.f) Topicalization and detopicalization - Thisoperation is used to topicalize or detopicalize anadverbial phrase.
We have not implemented thisoperation yet, but have observed that movingadverbial phrases to the end or to the front ofsentences can make them simpler in some cases.
Forinstance, the sentence in the last example wouldbecome:?The wall that for almost three decades divided Germany fellon the 9th of November of 1989.?We are still investigating how this operationcould be applied, that is, which situations require(de)topicalization.3.3 The cascaded application of the rulesAs previously mentioned, one sentence may containseveral phenomena that could be simplified, and weestablished the order in which they are treated.
Thefirst phenomenon to be treated is passive voice.Secondly, embedded appositive clauses areresolved, since they are easy to simplify and lessprone to errors.
Thirdly, subordinate, non-restrictiveand restrictive relative clauses are treated, and onlythen the coordinate clauses are dealt with.As the rules were designed to treat each caseindividually, it is necessary to apply the operationsin cascade, in order to complete the simplificationprocess for each sentence.
At each iteration, we (1)verify the phenomenon to be simplified followingthe standard order indicated above; (2) when aphenomenon is identified, its simplification isexecuted; and (3) the resulting simplified sentencegoes through a new iteration.
This process continuesuntil there are no more phenomena.
The cascadenature of the process is crucial because thesimplified sentence presents a new syntacticstructure and needs to be reparsed, so that thefurther simplification operations can be properlyapplied.
However, this process consumes time andis considered the bottleneck of the system.3.4 Simplification evaluationWe have so far evaluated the capacity of our rule-based simplifier to identify the phenomena presentin each sentence, and to recommend the correctsimplification operation.
We compared theoperations recommended by the system with theones performed manually by an annotator in acorpus of 104 news articles from the Zero Horanewspaper, which can be seen in our Portal ofParallel Corpora of Simplified Texts6.
Table 2presents the number of occurrences of eachsimplification operation in this corpus.Simplification Operations # SentencesNon-simplification 2638Subject-verb-object ordering 44Transformation to active voice 154Inversion of clause ordering 265Splitting sentences 1103Table 2.
Statistics on the simplification operationsThe performance of the system for this task ispresented in Table 3 in terms of precision, recall,and F-measure for each simplification operation.Operation P R FSplitting sentences 64.07 82.63 72.17Inversion of clause ordering 15.40 18.91 16.97Transformation to active voice 44.29 44.00 44.14Subject-verb-object ordering 1.12 4.65 1.81ALL 51.64 65.19 57.62Non-simplification 64.69 53.58 58.61Table 3.
Performance on defining simplificationoperations according to syntactic phenomenaThese results are preliminary, since we are stillrefining our rules.
Most of the recall errors on theinversion of clause ordering are due to the absenceof a few discourse markers in the list of markers thatwe use to identify such cases.
The majority of recallerrors on sentence splitting are due to mistakes onthe output of the syntactic parser and to the numberof ordering cases considered and implemented sofar.
The poor performance for subject-verb-objectordering, despite suffering from mistakes of theparser, indicates that our rules for this operationneed to be refined.
The same applies to inversion ofclause ordering.We did not report performance scores related tothe ?changing discourse marker?
operation becausein our evaluation corpus this operation is mergedwith other types of lexical substitution.
However, in6http://caravelas.icmc.usp.br/portal/index.php39order to assess if the sentences were correctlysimplified, it is necessary to do a manual evaluation,since it is not possible to automatically compare theoutput of the rule-based simplifier with theannotated corpus, as the sentences in the corpushave gone through operations that are not performedby the simplifier (such as lexical substitution).
Weare in the process of performing such manualevaluation.4 Simplifica editor: supporting authorsWe developed Simplifica7 (Figure 1), an authoringsystem to help writers to produce simplified texts.
Itemploys the simplification technology described inthe previous section.
It is a web-based WYSIWYGeditor, based on TinyMCE web editor8.The user inputs a text in the editor, customizesthe simplification settings where one or moresimplifications can be chosen to be applied in thetext and click on the ?simplify?
button.
This triggersthe syntactic simplification system, which returns anXML file containing the resulting text and tagsindicating the performed simplification operations.After that, the simplified version of the text isshown to the user, and he/she can revise theautomatic simplification.4.1 The XML representation of simplificationoperationsOur simplification system generates an XML file7http://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/porsimples/simplifica/8http://tinymce.moxiecode.com/describing all simplification operations applied to atext.
This file can be easily parsed using standardXML parsers.
Table 5 presents the XML annotationto the ?gold piranhas?
example in Section 3.2.<simplification type="passive"><simplification type="appositive"><simplification type="relative">Gold piranhas have bitten more than 20 people.
Goldpiranhas live in the waters of the Sanchuri dam, next tothe BR-720 highway, 40 km from the city.</simplification>Gold piranhas are Serrasalmus Spilopleura.</simplification></simplification>Table 5.
XML representation of a simplified textIn our annotation, each sentence receives a<simplification> tag which describes the simplifiedphenomena (if any); sentences that did not needsimplification are indicated with a <simplificationtype=?no?> tag.
The other simplification types referto the eighteen simplification cases presented inTable 1.
Nested tags indicate multiple operationsapplied to the same sentence.4.2 Revising the automatic simplificationOnce the automatic simplification is done, a reviewscreen shows the user the simplified text so thathe/she can visualize all the modifications appliedand approve or reject them, or select alternativesimplifications.
Figure 1 shows the reviewing screenand a message related to the simplificationperformed below the text simplified.The user can revise simplified sentences one at atime; the selected sentence is automaticallyhighlighted.
The user can accept or reject aFigure 1: Interface of the Simplifica system40simplified sentence using the buttons below the text.In the beginning of the screen ?Mais op?
?es?,alternative simplifications for the sentence areshown: this facility gives the user the possibility toresolve cases known to be ambiguous (as detailed inSections 2 and 3.2) for which the automaticsimplification may have made a mistake.
In thebottom of the same screen we can see the originalsentence (?Senten?a original?)
to which thehighlighted sentence refers.For the example in Figure 1, the tool presentsalternative simplifications containing differentsubjects, since selecting the correct noun phrase towhich an appositive clause was originally linked(which becomes the subject of the new sentence)based on gender and number information was notpossible.At the end of the process, the user returns to theinitial screen and can freely continue editing the textor adding new information to it.5 Text Simplification for educationText simplification can be used in severalapplications.
Journalists can use it to write simpleand straightforward news texts.
Governmentagencies can create more accessible texts to a largenumber of people.
Authors of manuals and technicaldocuments can also benefit from the simplificationtechnology.
Simplification techniques can also beused in an educational setting, for example, by ateacher who is creating simplified texts to students.Classic literature books, for example, can be quitehard even to experienced readers.
Some genres oftexts already have simplified versions, even thoughthe simplification level can be inadequate to aspecific target audience.
For instance, 3rd and 7thgrade students have distinct comprehension levels.In our approach, the number and type ofsimplification operations applied to sentencesdetermine its appropriateness to a given literacylevel, allowing the creation of multiple versions ofthe same text, with different levels of complexity,targeting special student needs.The Simplifica editor allows the teacher to adoptany particular texts to be used in the class, forexample, the teacher may wish to talk about currentnews events with his/her students, which would notbe available via any repository of simplified texts.The teacher can customize the text generatingprocess and gradually increase the text complexityas his/her students comprehension skills evolve.
Theuse of the editor also helps the teacher to develop aspecial awareness of the language, which canimprove his/her interaction with the students.Students can also use the system whenever theyhave difficulties to understand a text given in theclassroom.
After a student reads the simplified text,the reading of the original text becomes easier, as aresult of the comprehension of the simplified text.
Inthis scenario, reading the original text can also helpthe students to learn new and more complex wordsand syntactic structures, which would be harder forthem without reading of the simplified text.6 ConclusionsThe potentialities of text simplification systems foreducation are evident.
For students, it is a first stepfor more effective learning.
Under anotherperspective, given the Brazilian population literacylevels, we consider text simplification a necessity.For poor literacy people, we see text simplificationas a first step towards social inclusion, facilitatingand developing reading and writing skills for peopleto interact in society.
The social impact of textsimplification is undeniable.In terms of language technology, we not onlyintroduced simplification tools in this paper, but alsoinvestigated which linguistic phenomena should besimplified and how to simplify them.
We alsodeveloped a representation schema and designed anon-line authoring system.
Although some aspects ofthe research are language dependent, most of whatwe propose may be adapted to other languages.Next steps in this research include practicalapplications of such technology and themeasurement of its impact for both education andsocial inclusion.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the Brazilian Science Foundation FAPESPand Microsoft Research for financial support.ReferencesAlu?sio, S.M., Specia, L., Pardo, T.A.S., Maziero, E.G.,Fortes, R. 2008.
Towards Brazilian PortugueseAutomatic Text Simplification Systems.
In theProceedings of the 8th ACM Symposium on DocumentEngineering, pp.
240-248.Bick, E. 2000.
The parsing system ?Palavras?
:41Automatic grammatical analysis of Portuguese in aconstraint grammar framework.
PhD ThesisUniversity of ?rhus, Denmark.Burstein, J.
2009.
Opportunities for Natural LanguageProcessing Research in Education.
In the  Proceedingsof CICLing, pp.
6-27.Caseli, H., Pereira, T.F., Specia, L., Pardo, T.A.S.,Gasperin, C., Aluisio, S. 2009.
Building a BrazilianPortuguese Parallel Corpus of Original and SimplifiedTexts.
In the Proceedings of CICLing.Caseli, H.M.; Nunes, M.G.V.
; Forcada, M.L.
2008.Automatic induction of bilingual resources fromaligned parallel corpora: application to shallow-transfer machine translation.
Machine Translation, V.1, p. 227-245.Devlin, S., Unthank, G. 2006.
Helping aphasic peopleprocess online information.
In the Proceedings of theACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers andAccessibility, pp.
225-226.Graesser, A., McNamara, D. S., Louwerse, M., Cai, Z.2004.
Coh-Metrix: Analysis of text on cohesion andlanguage.
Behavioral Research Methods, Instruments,and Computers, V. 36, pp.
193-202.Inui, K., Fujita, A., Takahashi, T., Iida, R., Iwakura, T.2003.
Text Simplification for Reading Assistance: AProject Note.
In the Proceedings of the SecondInternational Workshop on Paraphrasing, 9 -16.Klebanov, B., Knight, K., Marcu, D. 2004.
TextSimplification for Information-Seeking Applications.On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems.
LNCS,V.. 3290, pp.
735-747.Lal, P., Ruger, S. 2002.
Extract-based summarization withsimplification.
In the Proceedings of DUC.Mapleson, D.L.
2006.
Post-Grammatical Processing forDiscourse Segmentation.
PhD Thesis.
School ofComputing Sciences, University of East Anglia,Norwich.Max, A.
2005.
Simplification interactive pour laproduction de textes adapt es aux personnes souffrantde troubles de la compr ehension.
In the Proceedingsof Traitement Automatique des Langues Naturelles(TALN).Max, A.
2006.
Writing for language-impaired readers.
Inthe  Proceedings of CICLing, pp.
567-570.Muniz, M.C., Laporte, E. Nunes, M.G.V.
2005.
UNITEX-PB, a set of flexible language resources for BrazilianPortuguese.
In Anais do III Workshop em Tecnologiada Informa?
?o e da Linguagem Humana, V. 1, pp.
1-10.Pardo, T.A.S.
and Nunes, M.G.V.
2008.
On theDevelopment and Evaluation of a BrazilianPortuguese Discourse Parser.
Journal of Theoreticaland Applied Computing, V. 15, N. 2, pp.
43-64.Petersen, S.E.
2007.
Natural Language Processing Toolsfor Reading Level Assessment and Text Simplificationfor Bilingual Education.
PhD Thesis, University ofWashington.Petersen, S.E.
and Ostendorf, M. 2007.
TextSimplification for Language Learners: A CorpusAnalysis.
In the Proceedings of the Speech andLanguage Technology for Education Workshop, pp.69-72.Specia, L., Alu?sio, S.M., Pardo, T.A.S.
2008.
Manual desimplifica?
?o sint?tica para o portugu?s.
TechnicalReport NILC-TR-08-06, NILC.Siddharthan, A.
2002.
An Architecture for a TextSimplification System.
In the Proceedings of theLanguage Engineering Conference, pp.
64-71.Siddharthan, A.
2003.
Syntactic Simplification and TextCohesion.
PhD Thesis.
University of Cambridge.Snow, C. 2002.
Reading for understanding: Toward anR&D program in reading comprehension.
SantaMonica, CA.42
