Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 179?186,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPWord Segmentation Standard in Chinese, Japanese and KoreanKey-Sun ChoiKAISTDaejeon Koreakschoi@kaist.ac.krHitoshi IsaharaNICTKyoto Japanisahara@nict.go.jpKyoko KanzakiNICTKyoto Japankanzaki@nict.go.jpHansaem KimNational Inst.Korean Lang.Seoul  Koreathesis00@korea.krSeok Mun PakBaekseok Univ.Cheonan Koreasmpark@bu.ac.krMaosong SunTsinghua Univ.Beijing Chinasms@tsinghua.edu.cnAbstractWord segmentation is a process to divide asentence into meaningful units called ?wordunit?
[ISO/DIS 24614-1].
What is a wordunit is judged by principles for its internal in-tegrity and external use constraints.
A wordunit?s internal structure is bound by prin-ciples of lexical integrity, unpredictabilityand so on in order to represent one syntacti-cally meaningful unit.
Principles for externaluse include language economy and frequencysuch that word units could be registered in alexicon or any other storage for practical re-duction of processing complexity for the fur-ther syntactic processing after word segmen-tation.
Such principles for word segmentationare applied for Chinese, Japanese and Korean,and impacts of the standard are discussed.1 IntroductionWord segmentation is the process of dividing ofsentence into meaningful units.
For example,?the White House?
consists of three words butdesignates one concept for the President?s resi-dence in USA.
?Pork?
in English is translatedinto two words ?pig meat?
in Chinese, Koreanand Japanese.
In Japanese and Korean, becausean auxiliary verb must be followed by main verb,they will compose one word unit like ?tabetai?and ?meoggo sipda?
(want to eat).
So the wordunit is defined by a meaningful unit that could bea candidate of lexicon or of any other type ofstorage (or expanded derived lexicon) that is use-ful for the further syntactic processing.
A wordunit is more or less fixed and there is no syntacticinterference in the inside of the word unit.
In thepractical sense, it is useful for the further syntac-tic parsing because it is not decomposable bysyntactic processing and also frequently occurredin corpora.There are a series of linguistic annotationstandards in ISO: MAF (morpho-syntactic anno-tation framework), SynAF (syntactic annotationframework), and others in ISO/TC37/SC4 1 .These standards describe annotation methods butnot for the meaningful units of word segmenta-tion.
In this aspect, MAF and SynAF are to anno-tate each linguistic layer horizontally in a stan-dardized way for the further interoperability.Word segmentation standard would like to rec-ommend what word units should be candidates tobe registered in some storage or lexicon, andwhat type of word sequences called ?word unit?should be recognized before syntactic processing.In section 2, principles of word segmentationwill be introduced based on ISO/CD 24614-1.Section 3 will describe the problems in wordsegmentation and what should be word units ineach language of Chinese, Japanese and Korean.The conclusion will include what could beshared among three languages for word segmen-tation.2 Word Segmentation: Framework andPrinciplesWord unit is a layered pre-syntactical unit.
Thatmeans that a word unit consists of the smallerword units.
But the maximal word unit is fre-quently occurred in corpora under the constraintsthat the syntactic processing will not refer theinternal structure of the word unitBasic atoms of word unit are word form, mor-pheme including bound morpheme, and non-lexical items like punctuation mark, numericstring, foreign character string and others asshown in Figure 1.
Usually we say that ?word?
islemma or word form.
Word form is a form that alexeme takes when used in a sentence.
For ex-ample, strings ?have?, ?has?, and ?having?
areword forms of the lexeme HAVE, generally dis-tinguished by the use of capital letters.
[ISO/CD24614-1] Lemma is a conventional form used torepresent a lexeme, and lexeme is an abstractunit generally associated with a set of wordforms sharing a common meaning.1 Refer to http://www.tc37sc4.org/ for documentsMAF, SynAF and so on.179Figure 1.
Configuration of Word UnitBNF of word unit is as follows:<word unit> ::= <word form> | <morpheme> |<non lexical items> | <word unit>,where <word unit> is recursively defined be-cause a longer word unit contains smaller wordunits.Bunsetsu in Japanese is the longest word unit,which is an example of layered maximized pre-syntactical unit.
Eojeol in Korean is a spacingunit that consists of one content word (noun,verb, adjective or adverb) plus a sequence offunctional elements.
Such language-specificword units will be described in section 3.Principles for word segmentation will set thecriteria to validate each word unit, to recognizeits internal structure and non-lexical word unit, tobe a candidate of lexicon, and other consistencyto be necessitated by practical applications forany text in any language.
The meta model ofword segmentation will be explained in theprocessing point of view, and then their prin-ciples of word units in the following subsections.2.1 Metamodel of Word SegmentationA word unit has a practical unit that will be laterused for syntactic processing.
While the wordsegmentation is a process to identify the longestword unit and its internal structure such that theword unit is not the object to interfere any syn-tactic operation, ?chunking?
is to identify theconstituents but does not specify their internalstructure.
Syntactic constituent has a syntacticrole, but the word unit is a subset of syntacticconstituent.
For example, ?blue sky?
could be asyntactic constituent but not a word unit.
Figure2 shows the meta model of word segmentation.
[ISO CD 24614-1]2.2 Principles of Word Unit ValidationPrinciples for validating a word unit can be ex-plained by two perspectives: one is linguistic oneand the other is processing-oriented practicalperspective.In ISO 24614-1, principles from a linguisticperspective, there are five principles: principlesof (1) bound morpheme, (2) lexical integrity, (3)unpredictability, (4) idiomatization, and (5) un-productivity.First, bound morpheme is something like ?in?of ?
inefficient?
.
The principle of bound mor-pheme says that each bound morpheme plusword will make another word.
Second, principleof lexical integrity means that any syntacticprocessing cannot refer the internal structure ofword (or word unit).
From the principle, we cansay that the longest word unit is the maximalmeaningful unit before syntactic processing.Third, another criterion to recognize a word isthe principle of unpredictability.
If we cannotinfer the real fact from the word, we consider itas a word unit.
For example, we cannot imagewhat is the colour of blackboard because some isgreen, not black.
[ISO 24614-1] The fourth prin-ciple is that the idiom should be one word, whichcould be a subsidiary principle that follows theprinciple of unpredictability.
In the last principle,unproductivity is a stronger definition of word;there is no pattern to be copied to generate an-other word from this word formation.
For exam-ple, in ????
(white vegetable) in Chinese,there is no other coloured vegetable like ?bluevegetable.
?Another set of principles is derived from thepractical perspective.
There are four principles:frequency, Gestalt, prototype and languageeconomy.
Two principles of frequency and lan-guage economy are to recognize the frequentoccurrence in corpora.
Gestalt and prototypeprinciples are the terms in cognitive scienceabout what are in our mental lexicon, and whatare perceivable words.Principle of language economy is to say aboutvery practical processing efficiency: ?if the in-clusion of a word (unit) candidate into the lex-icon can decrease the difficulty of linguisticanalysis for it, then it is likely to be a word(unit).
?Gestalt principle is to perceive as a whole.
?Itsupports some perceivable phrasal compoundsinto the lexicon even though they seem to be freecombinations of their perceivable constituentparts,?
[ISO/CD 24614-1] where the phrasalcompound is frequently used linguistic unit andits meaning is predictable from its constituentelements.
Similarly, principle of prototype pro-180vides a rationale for including some phrasalcompounds into lexicon, and phrasal compoundsserve as prototypes in a productive word forma-tion pattern, like ?apple pie?
with the pattern?fruit + pie?
into the lexicon.Figure 2.
Meta model of word segmentation proess[ISO/CD 24614-1]2.3 Principles for Word Unit FormationAs a result of word segmentation of sentence, wewill get word units.
These principles will de-scribe the internal structure of word unit.
Theyhave four principles: granularity, scope maximi-zation of affixations, scope maximization ofcompounding, and segmentation for other strings.In the principle of granularity, a word unit has itsinternal structure, if necessary for various appli-cation of word segmentation.Principles of scope maximization of affixa-tions and compounding are to recognize thelongest word unit as one word unit even if it iscomposed of stem + affixes or compound ofword units.
For example, ?unhappy?
or ?happy?is one word unit respectively.
?Next generationInternet?
is one word unit.
The principle of seg-mentation for other strings is to recognize non-lexical strings as one word unit if it carries somesyntactic function, for example, 2009 in ?Nowthis year is 2009.?3 Word Segmentation for Chinese, Jap-anese and KoreanIf the word is derived from Chinese characters,three languages have common characteristics.
Iftheir word in noun consists of two or three Chi-nese characters, they will be one word unit ifthey are ?tightly combined and steadily used.
?Even if it is longer length, it will be a word unitif it is fixed expression or idiom.
But if the firstcharacter is productive with the following num-eral, unit word or measure word, it will be seg-mented.
If the last character is productive in alimited manner, it forms a word unit with thepreceding word, for example, ?????
(TokyoMetropolis), ?8??
(August) or ?????
(acce-lerator).
But if it is a productive suffix like pluralsuffix and noun for locality, it is segmented in-dependently in Chinese word segmentation rule,for example, ???|??
(friends), ???|???
(north of the Yangtzi River ) or ???|??
(onthe table) in Chinese.
They may have differentphenomena in each language.Negation character of verb and adjective issegmented independently in Chinese, but theyform one word unit in Japanese.
For example,?yasashikunai?
(????
?, not kind) is oneword unit in Japanese, but ??|??
(not to write),?
?| ??
(cannot),  ??|???
(did not research)and ??
| ???
(not completed) will be seg-mented independently in Chinese.
In Korean,?chinjeolhaji anhta?
(????
?
?, not kind)has one space inserted between two eojeols but itcould be one word unit.
?ji anhta?
makes nega-tion of adjectival stem ?chinjeolha?.We will carefully investigate what principlesof word units will be applied and what kind ofconflicts exists.
Because the motivation of wordsegmentation standard is to recommend whatword units should be registered in a type of lex-icon (where it is not the lexicon in linguistics butany kind of practical indexed container for wordunits), it has two possibly conflicting principles.For example, principles of unproductivity, fre-quency, and granularity could cause conflictsbecause they have different perspectives to de-fine a word unit.3.1 Word Segmentation for ChineseFor convenience of description, the specificationin this section follows the convention that classi-fies words into 13 types: noun, verb, adjective,pronoun, numeral, measure word, adverb, prepo-sition, conjunction, auxiliary word, modal word,exclamation word, imitative word.3.1.1 NounThere is word unit specification for commonnouns as follows:- Two-character word or compact two-characternoun phrase, e.g., ??
(beef) ??
(steel)181- Noun phrase with compact structure, if violateoriginal meaning after segmentation, e.g., ????
(Active power)- Phrase consisting of adjective with noun, e.g.,??
(green leave)- The meaning changed phrase consisting of ad-jective, e.g., ???
(young wife)- Prefix with noun, e.g., ??
(elder brother) ??
(old eagle) ???
(nonmetal)  ???
(ultrasonic)- Noun segmentation unit with following postfix(e.g.
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
), e.g., ???
(scientist)- Noun segmentation unit with prefix and postfix,e.g., ???
(superconductance)- Time noun or phrase, e.g., ??
(May), 11 ?42 ?
8 ?
(forty two minutes and eight secondspast eleven), ??
(the day before yesterday),??
(First day of a month in the Chinese lunarcalendar )But the followings are independent wordunits for noun of locality (e.g., ??|?
(on thetable), ??|??
(north of the Yangtzi River)),and the ???
suffix referring to from a plural offront noun (e.g., ??
?
(friends) ) except ???
?, ?????
(pals),  ?????
(guys), etc.
Prop-er nouns have similar specification.3.1.2 VerbThe following verb forms will be one word unitas:- Various forms of reiterative verb, e.g., ??
(look at), ????
(come and go)- Verb?object structural word, or compact andstably used verb phrase, e.g., ??
(meeting)  ??
(dancing)- Verb?complement structural word (two-character), or stably used Verb-complementphrase (two-character), e.g., ??
(improve)- Adjective with noun word, and compact, andstably used adjective with noun phrase, e.g., ??
(make trouble) ,  ??
(talk nonsense)- Compound directional verb, e.g., ??
(go out)??
(come in).But the followings are independent wordunits:- ?AAB, ABAB?
or ?A?
A, A?
A, A??
A?,e.g., ??|??
(have a discuss), ?|?|?
(havea good chat)- Verb delimited by a negative meaning charac-ters, e.g., ?|?
(not to write)   ?|?(cannot)?|??
(did not research)    ?|??
(not com-pleted)- ?Verb + a negative meaning Chinese character+  the same verb" structure, e.g., ??|?|?
(sayor not say)?
?- Incompact or verb?object structural phrase withmany similar structures, e.g., ?
|?
(Eat fish)?|??
(learn skiing)- ?2with1?
or ?1with2?
structural verb- comple-ment phrase, e.g., ??|?
(clean up), ?|??
(speak clearly),  ??|??
(explain clearly)- Verb-complement word for phrase, if insertedwith ??
or ?
?, e.g., ?|?|?
(able to knockdown), and compound directional verb of direc-tion, e.g., ?|?|?
(able to go out)- Phrase formed by verb with directional verb,e.g., ?|?
(send), ?|?|?
(run out)- Combination of independent single verbs with-out conjunction, e.g., ?|?
(cover with), ?|?,?|?
(listen, speaking, read and write)- Multi-word verb without conjunction, e.g., ??|??
(investigate and research)3.1.3 AdjectiveOne word unit shall be recognized in the follow-ing cases:- Adjective in reiterative form of ?AA, AABB,ABB, AAB, A+"?
"+AB?, e.g., ??
(big), ????
(careless), except the adjectives in rei-terative form of ?ABAB?, e.g., ??
|??
(snowy white)- Adjective phrase in from of ??
A?
B??A?
B??
A?
B??
A?
B??
A?
B?,e.g., ????
(wholeheartedly)- Two single-character adjectives with word fea-tures varied, ??
(long-short)  ??
(deep-shallow)  ??
(big-small)- Color adjective word or phrase, e.g., ??
(lightyellow)   ???
(olive green)But the followings are segmented as indepen-dent word units:- Adjectives in parataxis form and maintainingoriginal adjective meaning, e.g., ?
|???
(size), ??
|??
(glory)- Adjective phrase in positive with negative formto indicate question, e.g., ?
?| ?| ??
(easyor not easy), except the brachylogical one like????
(easy or not).3.1.4 PronounThe followings shall be one word unit:182- Single-character pronoun with ??
?, e.g.,??
(we)- ???????
with unit word ???
or ??????????
?, e.g., ??
(this)- Interrogative adjective or phrase, e.g., ??
(how many)But, the following will be independent wordunits:- ???????
with numeral , unit word ornoun word segmentation unit, e.g., ?
|?
?
(these 10 days), ?| ?
(that person)- Pronoun of ???????????????,etc.
shall be segmented from followed measureword or noun, e.g., ?| ?
(each country), ?|?
(each type).3.1.5 NumeralThe followings will be one word unit:- Chinese digit word, e.g., ????????????
(180,040,723)- ????
percent in fractional number, e.g., ????
(third fifth)- Paratactic numerals indicating approximatenumber, e.g., ??
??
(eight or nine kg)On the other hand, Independent word unit cas-es are as follows:- Numeral shall be segmented from measureword, e.g., ?| ?
(three)- Ordinal number of ???
shall be segmentedfrom followed numeral, e.g., ?
?
(first)- ????????????
?, used after adjec-tive or verb for indicating approximate number.3.1.6 Measure wordReiterative measure word and compound meas-ure word or phrase is a word unit, e.g., ??
(every year), ??
man/year.3.1.7 AdverbAdverb is one word unit.
But??????????
?, etc.
acting as conjunction shall be seg-mented, e.g., ?
?
?
?
(sweet yet savory).3.1.8 PrepositionIt is one word unit.
For example, ??
(be bornin), and  ????
(according to the regulations).3.1.9 ConjunctionConjunction shall be deemed as segmentationunit.3.1.10 Auxiliary wordStructural auxiliary word ????????
?and tense auxiliary word ???????
are oneword unit, e.g., ?
|?
|?
(his book), ?
|?(watched).
But the auxiliary word ???
shall besegmented from its followed verb, e.g., ?
?
(what one thinks).3.1.11 Modal wordIt is one word unit, e.g., ????
(How areyou?
).3.1.12 Exclamation wordExclamation word shall be deemed as segmenta-tion unit.
For example, ???????
(Howbeautiful it is!
)3.1.13 Imitative wordIt is one word unit like ????
(tinkle).3.2 Word Segmentation for JapaneseFor convenience of description, the specificationin this section follows the convention that classi-fies words into mainly 10 types: meishi (noun),doushi (verb), keiyoushi (adjective), rentaishi(adnominal noun: only used in adnominal usage),fukushi (adverb), kandoushi (exclamation), set-suzoushi (conjunction), setsuji (affix), joshi (par-ticle), and jodoushi (auxiliary verb).
These partsof speech are divided into more detailed classesin terms of grammatical function.The longest "word segmentation" correspondsto ?Bunsetsu?
in Japanese.3.2.1 NounWhen a noun is a member constituting a sentence,it is usually followed by a particle or auxiliaryverb (e.g.
????
(neko_ga) which is composedfrom ?Noun + a particle for subject marker?
).Also, if a word like an adjective or adnominalnoun modifies a noun, then a modifier (adjec-tives, adnominal noun, adnominal phrases) and amodificand (a noun) are not segmented.3.2.2 VerbA Japanese verb has an inflectional ending.
Theending of a verb changes depending on whetherit is a negation form, an adverbial form, a baseform, an adnominal form, an assumption form, oran imperative form.
Japanese verbs are oftenused with auxiliary verbs and/or particles, and averb with auxiliary verbs and/or particles is con-sidered as a word segmentation unit (e.g.
??????
?
(aruki_mashi_ta) is composed from?Verb + auxiliary verb for politeness + auxiliaryverb for tense?
).3.2.3 AdjectiveA Japanese adjective has an inflectional ending.Based on the type of inflectional ending, there183are two kinds of adjectives, "i_keiyoushi" and"na_keiyoushi".
However, both are treated asadjectives.In terms of traditional Japanese linguistics,?keiyoushi?
refers to ?i_keiyoushi?(e.g.
??
?,utsukushi_i) and ?keiyoudoushi?(e.g.
???
,shizuka_na) refers to ?na_keiyoushi.?
In terms ofinflectional ending of ?na_keiyoushi,?
it is some-times said to be considered as ?Noun + auxiliaryverb (da)?.The ending of an adjective changes dependingon whether it is a negation form, an adverbialform, a base form, an adnominal form, or an as-sumption form.
Japanese adjectives in predica-tive position are sometimes used with auxiliaryverbs and/or particles, and they are considered asa word segmentation unit.3.2.4 Adnominal nounAn adnominal noun does not have an inflectionalending; it is always used as a modifier.
An ad-nominal noun is considered as one segmentationunit.3.2.5 AdverbAn adverb does not have an inflectional ending;it is always used as a modifier of a sentence or averb.
It is considered as one segmentation unit.3.2.6 ConjunctionA conjunction is considered as one segmentationunit.3.2.7 ExclamationAn exclamation is considered as one segmenta-tion unit.3.2.8 AffixA prefix and a suffix used as a constituent of aword should not be segmented as a word unit.3.2.9 ParticleParticles can be divided into two main types.One is a case particle which serves as a casemarker.
The other is an auxiliary particle whichappears at the end of a phrase or a sentence.Auxiliary particles represent a mood and atense.Particles should not be segmented from a word.A particle is always used with a word like a noun,a verb, or an adjective, and they are consideredas one segmentation unit.3.2.10 Auxiliary verbAuxiliary verbs represent various semantic func-tions such as a capability, a voice, a tense, anaspect and so on.
An auxiliary verb appears atthe end of a phrase or a sentence.
Some linguistconsider ???
(da), which is Japanese copura, asa specific category such as ???
(hanteishi).An auxiliary verb should not be segmentedfrom a word.
An auxiliary verb is always usedwith a word like a noun, a verb, or an adjective,and is considered as one segmentation unit.3.2.11 Idiom and proverbProverbs, mottos, etc.
should be segmented iftheir original meanings are not violated aftersegmentation.
For example:Kouin yano  gotoshinoun  noun+particle auxiliary verbtime  arrow  like (flying)Time flies fast.3.2.12 AbbreviationAn abbreviation should not be segmented.3.3 Word Segmentation for KoreanFor convenience of description, the specificationin this section follows the convention that classi-fies words into 12 types: noun, verb, adjective,pronoun, numeral, adnominal, adverb, exclama-tion, particle, auxiliary verb, auxiliary adjective,and copula.
The basic parts of speech can be di-vided into more detailed classes in terms ofgrammatical function.
Classification in this paperis in accord with the top level of MAF.In addition, we treat some multi-Eojeol unitsas the word unit for practical purpose.
KoreanEojeol is a spacing unit that consists of one con-tent word (like noun, verb) and series of func-tional elements (particles, word endings).
Func-tional elements are not indispensable.
Eojeol issimilar with Bunsetsu from some points, but anEojeol is recognized by white space in order toenhance the readability that enables to use onlyHangul alphabet in the usual writing.3.3.1 NounWhen a noun is a member constituting a sentence,it is usually followed by a particle.
(e.g.???_??
(saja_ga, ?a lion is?)
which is com-posed from ?Noun + a particle for subject mark-er?).
Noun subsumes common noun, proper noun,and bound noun.If there are two frequently concatenated Eoje-ols that consist of modifier (an adjective or anadnominal) and modificand (a noun), they can beone word unit according to the principle of lan-guage economy.
Other cases of noun word unitare as follows:1) Compound noun that consists of two morenouns can be a word unit.
For example,184????
(son_mok, ?wrist?)
where son+mok= ?hand?+?neck?.2) Noun phrase that denotes just one conceptcan be a word unit.
For example, ???????
(yesul_ui jeondang, ?sanctuary of thearts?
that is used for the name of concerthall).3.3.2 VerbA Korean verb has over one inflectional endings.The endings of a verb can be changed and at-tached depending on grammatical function ofverb (e.g.
??/??/?/?/?/?/??
(break[+emphasis] [+polite] [+past] [+conjectural] finalending [+polite]).
Compound verb (verb+verb,noun+verb, adverb+verb) can be a segmentationunit by right.
For example, ??????
(dola-ga-da, ?pass away?)
is literally translated into?go+back?
(verb+verb).
?????
(bin-na-da,?be shiny?)
is derived from ?light + come out?(noun+verb).
??????
(baro-jap-da, ?cor-rect?)
is one word unit but it consists of?rightly+hold?
(adverb+verb).3.3.3 AdjectiveA Korean adjective has inflectional endings likeverb.
For example, in ???/?/?/?/?/??
(pretty [+polite] [+past] [+conjectural] final end-ing [+polite]), one adjective has five endings.Compound adjective can be a segmentation unitby right.
(e.g.
?????
(geom-buk-da, ?beblackish red?
))3.3.4 AdnominalAn adnominal is always used as a modifier fornoun.
Korean adnominal is not treated as noununlike Japanese one.
(e.g.
??
??
(sae jip, ?newhouse?)?
which consist of ?adnominal + noun?
).3.3.5 AdverbAn adverb does not have an inflectional ending;it is always used as a modifier of a sentence or averb.
In Korean, adverb includes conjunction.
Itis considered as one segmentation unit.
Com-pound adverb can be a segmentation unit by right.Examples are ????
(bam-nat, ?day and night?
),and ????
(gotgot, ?everywhere?
whose literaltranslation is ?where where?
).3.3.6 PronounA pronoun is considered as one segmentationunit.
Typical examples are ???
(na, ?I?
), ???
(neo, ?you?
), and ????
(uri, ?we).
Suffix ofplural ???
(deul, ?-s?)
can be attached to someof pronouns in Korean.
(e.g.
?????
(neohui-deul, ?you+PLURAL?
), ????
(geu-deul, ?they?= ?he/she+PLURAL?
)).3.3.7 NumeralA numeral is considered as one segmentationunit: e.g.
????
(hana, ?one?
), ????
(cheojjae,?first?).
Also figures are treated as one unit like?2009??
(the year 2009).3.3.8 ExclamationAn exclamation is considered as one segmenta-tion unit.3.3.9 ParticleKorean particles can not be segmented from aword just like Japanese particles.
A particle isalways used with a word like a noun, a verb, oran adjective, but it is considered as one segmen-tation unit.Particles can be divided into two main types.One is a case particle that serves as a case marker.The other is an auxiliary particle that appears atthe end of a phrase or a sentence.
Auxiliary par-ticle represents a mood and a tense.3.3.10 Auxiliary verbA Korean auxiliary verb represents various se-mantic functions such as a capability, a voice, atense, an aspect and so on.Auxiliary verb is only used with a verb plusendings with special word ending depending onthe auxiliary verb.
For example, ????
(boda,?try to?
), an auxiliary verb has the same inflec-tional endings but it should follow a main verbwith a connective ending ???
(eo) or ???
(?go?
).Consider ?try to eat?
in English where ?eat?
is amain verb, and ?try?
is an auxiliary verb withspecialized connective ?to?.
In this case, we needtwo Korean Eojeols that corresponds to ?eat +to?
and ?try?.
Because ?to?
is a functional ele-ment that is attached after main verb ?eat?, itconstitutes one Eojeol.
It causes a conflict be-tween Eojeol and word unit.
That means everyEojeol cannot be a word unit.
What are the wordunits and Eojeols in this case?
There are twochoices: (1) ?eat+to?
and ?try?, (2) ?eat?+ ?totry?.
According to the definition of Eojeol, (1) iscorrect for two concatenated Eojeols.
But if thesyntactic processing is preferable, (2) is morelikely to be a candidate of word units.3.3.11 Auxiliary adjectiveUnlike Japanese, there is auxiliary adjective inKorean.
Function and usage of it are very similarto auxiliary verb.
Auxiliary adjective is consi-dered as one segmentation unit.185Auxiliary verb can be used with a verb or ad-jective plus endings with special word endingdepending on the auxiliary adjective.
For exam-ple, in ???
???
(meokgo sipda, ?want toeat?
), sipda is an auxiliary adjective whose mean-ing is ?want?
while meok is a main verb ?want?and go corresponds to ?to?
; so meokgo is ?to eat?.3.3.12 CopulaA copula is always used for changing the func-tion of noun.
After attaching the copula, nouncan be used like verb.
It can be segmented forprocessing.3.3.13 Idiom and proverbProverbs, mottos, etc.
should be segmented iftheir original meanings are not violated aftersegmentation like Chinese and Japanese.3.3.14 EndingEnding is attached to the root of verb and adjec-tive.
It means honorific, tense, aspect, modal, etc.There are two endings: prefinal ending and fi-nal ending.
They are functional elements torepresent honorific, past, or future functions inprefinal position, and declarative (-da) or con-cessive (-na)-functions in final ending.
Ending isnot a segmentation unit in Korean.
It is just a unitfor inflection.3.3.15 AffixA prefix and a suffix used as a constituent of aword should not be segmented as a word unit.4 ConclusionWord segmentation standard is to recommendwhat type of word sequences should be identifiedas one word unit in order to process the syntacticparsing.
Principles of word segmentation want toprovide the measure of such word units.
Butprinciples of frequency and language economyare based on a statistical measure, which will bedecided by some practical purpose.Word segmentation in each language issomewhat different according to already madeword segmentation regulation, even violating oneor more principles of word segmentation.
In thefuture, we have to discuss the more synchronizedword unit concept because we now live in a mul-ti-lingual environment.
For example, considerfigure 3.
Its English literal translation is ?whitevegetable and pig meat?, where ?white vegeta-ble?
(??)
is an unproductive word pattern andforms one word unit without component wordunits, and ?pig meat?
in Chinese means one Eng-lish word ?pork?.
So ?pig meat?
(??)
is thelongest word unit in this case.
But in Japaneseand Korean, ?pig meat?
in Chinese characterscannot be two word units, because each compo-nent character is not used independently.Figure 3.
Basic segmentation and word segmenta-tion [ISO/CD 24614-1]What could be shared among three languagesfor word segmentation?
The common things arenot so much among CJK.
The Chinese characterderived nouns are sharable for its word unitstructure, but not the whole.
On the other hand,there are many common things between Koreanand Japanese.
Some Korean word endings andJapanese auxiliary verbs have the same functions.It will be an interesting study to compare for theprocessing purpose.The future work will include the role of wordunit in machine translation.
If the correspondingword sequences have one word unit in one lan-guage, it is one symptom to recognize one wordunit in other languages.
It could be ?principle ofmulti-lingual alignment.
?The concept of ?word unit?
is to broaden theview about what could be registered in lexicon ofnatural language processing purpose, withoutmuch linguistic representation.
In the result, wewould like to promote such language resourcesharing in public, not just dictionaries of wordsin usual manner but of word units.AcknowledgementThis work has been supported by ISO/TC37,KATS and Ministry of Knowledge Economy(ROKorea), CNIS and SAC (China), JISC (Ja-pan) and CSK (DPRK) with special contributionof Jeniffer DeCamp (ANSI) and Kiyong Lee.ReferencesISO CD24614-1, Language Resource Management ?Word segmentation of written texts for monolin-gual and multilingual information processing ?
Part1: Basic concepts and general principles, 2009.ISO WD24614-2, ?
Part 2: Word segmentation forChinese, Japanese and Korean, 2009.186
