Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 154?161,Athens, Greece, 30 ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsWhat Game Theory can do for NLG: the case of vague languageKees van DeemterUniversity of Aberdeenk.vdeemter@abdn.ac.ukAbstractThis informal position paper brings to-gether some recent developments in for-mal semantics and pragmatics to arguethat the discipline of Game Theory is wellplaced to become the theoretical back-bone of Natural Language Generation.
Todemonstrate some of the strengths andweaknesses of the Game-Theoretical ap-proach, we focus on the utility of vagueexpressions.
More specifically, we askwhat light Game Theory can shed on thequestion when an NLG system shouldgenerate vague language.1 NLG as a choice problemNatural Language Generation (NLG) is the areaof computational linguistics that is concerned withthe mapping from non-linguistic to linguistic ex-pressions (e.g.
Reiter and Dale 2000).
This formu-lation might be taken to suggest that NLG is bestviewed as a kind of translation problem, where thechallenge is to find a way to convert a formal ex-pression into (for example) an English one.
In itsearly years, this may have been a fruitful way tothink about NLG but, these days, a better perspec-tive is of NLG as a choice problem.
For after theadvances of recent years, the problem is no longersuch much ?How on Earth can this information beexpressed in English?
?, but rather ?From all thepossible ways to express this information in En-glish, which one is the most effective choice?
?Let us try to say this a bit more precisely.
It isusually fair to assume that the formal expressionsfrom which NLG takes its departure are them-selves clear and unambiguous.
Let us call theinputs to the generator Meanings.
Now supposewe have a grammar that tells us how each givenMeaning can be expressed in a language such asEnglish.
The task for NLG now is to choose, foreach of these Meanings, which of all the differentlinguistic Forms that can express it (according tothe grammar) is the best expression of this partic-ular Meaning.
Ultimately, this choice is likely todepend on a number of other parameters, such asthe identity of the hearer, and the words that haveearlier been used.
In the present paper, these ?con-textual?
issues will largely be ignored, allowing usto simplify by thinking in terms of a mapping fromMeanings to Forms.The perspective that views NLG as a choiceproblem is far from new (see e.g.
McDonald1987, where it takes a central position); in fact,it forms the methodological spine of Systemic-Functional Grammar, with its AND/OR graphs(Bateman 1997).
Given this perspective, the ques-tion comes up what factors determine the choicebetween different linguistic Forms.
This questionis difficult to answer in detail, but at the most ab-stract level, the answer is likely to have somethingto do with the ?utility?of the different Forms thatcan be generated, and perhaps such additional fac-tors as the cost to the speaker of generating them,and the cost to the hearer of processing (e.g., pars-ing and interpreting) them.
To utter a sentence is toperform an action, and the choice between differ-ent actions is naturally thought of as governed byutility, understood in the broadest possible sense.2 Game TheoryThe analysis of NLG as driven by the utility of ut-terances feels natural to people familiar with prac-tical applications of NLG, where texts are gener-ated for a real-life setting.
More generally, thistype of analysis suits anyone who is interested inthe effects of an utterance on an audience (e.g.,Mellish and Van der Sluis 2009).
To see howNLG systems could be amenable to a decision-theoretical analysis, in which the expected pay-offs associated with different texts are compared,consider an NLG system that informs roadgrit-154ters?
decisions about the condition of the roadsin Scotland, to help them decide which ones areicy enough to require treatment (e.g.
Turner et al2008).Computerised weather forecasts can tell roadgritters which roads are likely to be icey, and hencedangerous.
There can be thousands of dangerousroads on a given night, and it is often impossible tosay in a few words exactly which road are danger-ous (Turner et al 2008).
One summary producedby the generator might approximate the data bysaying ?Roads in the Highlands are icey?
while an-other might say ?Roads above 500 metres are icey?
(assume this covers a larger set of roads).
It mat-ters which of these summaries is generated, be-cause each summary will lead to a different set ofroads being treated with salt (i.e., gritted).
Thefirst summary may have 10 false positives (i.e.,roads gritted unnecessarily) and 10 false negatives(i.e., dangerous roads not gritted); the second sum-mary might have 100 false positives and only 2false negatives.
In a situation of this kind, whichinvolves a tradeoff between safety on the one hand,and money and environmental damage (from salt)on the other, decision theory would be a naturalframework in which to compare the utility of thetwo summaries.
If a false positive has a negativeutility of ?0.1 and a false negative one of ?0.5,for example, then the first summary wins the day.
(Needless to say, the choice of these constants iscrucial, and tricky to justify.
)More specifically, many NLG systems invitea game-theoretical analysis ?
or an Optimality-Theoretic analysis, which can come down to thesame thing (Dekker and Van Rooij 2000; VanDeemter 2004 for an application to NLG).
Sup-pose I want to state that all old people are entitledto certain benefits (cf.
Khan et al 2009):a.
Old men and old women are entitledto benefits.b.
Old men and women are entitled tobenefits.Which of these two linguistic Forms should Ichoose?
This depends on the strategy of thehearer.
If the hearer interprets (b) as concerningall women (rather only the old ones) then my ut-terance will have misfired to an extent.
The suc-cess (for speaker and/or hearer!)
of the speaker?sgeneration strategy, in other words, depends on thehearer?s interpretation strategy.11For a game-theoretical perspective on the generation ofThis interaction means that decision theory isnot the best tool for analysing the situation, forwhereever different agents?
strategies interact, De-cision Theory gives way to Game Theory.
GameTheory was conceived in the nineteen fourties(Von Neumann and Morgenstern 1944) and hassince come to be used extensively by economists,sociologists, biologists, and others.
Far from be-ing limited to games in a limited sense of the word,Game Theory is the mathematical study of rationalsocial interaction and, as such, it is reasonable toexpect it to be able to shed light on language use aswell.
Perhaps more than anything, it promises tohave the potential to explain why communicationworks the way it does.
For if we could show thatpeople?s linguistic behaviour conforms with whatit would be rational for them to do, then this wouldhave substantial explanatory value.Work by David Lewis and other on communica-tion and coordination games helped to make GameTheory relevant for situations where the playersare not in conflict with each other (Lewis 1969).A classic example is where two generals are bothintent on attacking an enemy, but while each gen-eral individually is weaker than the enemy, theycan beat him if they attack at the same time.
Com-munication (?I am going to attack now!?)
can helpthe generals to cooperate and win the battle.
Es-sentially the same things happens when you try tomeet a friend: neither of you may care where andwhen to meet, as long as the two of you end up inthe same place at the same time; communication,of course, can help you achieve this goal.Applications of Game Theory to language nowcome in many flavours (see e.g.
Klabunde 2009,this conference).
In this paper I want to engagein a small case study: the expression of quanti-tative information in English.
More specifically,I will focus on the fact that quantitative informa-tion is often only communicated vaguely.
Whena thermometer, for example, measures your bodytemperature as 39.82 Celcius, your doctor mightexpress this by saying that your temperature is?39.8 degrees?, but he might also round this offeven further, saying that it is ?approximately 40degrees?.
Even more vaguely, she might tell youthat you have ?a high fever?.
Which of these lin-guistic Forms is preferable, and why?Questions of this kind have led to a lively dis-referring expressions, where success depends on alignmentbetween hearer and speaker strategies, see Kibble 2003.155cussion among linguists, philosophers, and the-oretical economists (Lipman 2000, 2006; DeJaegher 2003; Van Rooij 2003), focussing on thequestion under what circumstances vagueness canlead to a higher utility than crispness.
The ques-tion is important for understanding human com-munication, because vagueness plays such a cen-tral role in it.
Vague adjectives, for example,are prevalent among the words first learned bya typical infant (Peccei 1994) and many of theirsubtleties are understood by children of only 24months old (Ebeling and Gelman 1994).
In myopinion, the understanding of vagueness is equallyimportant for the NLG community, and particu-larly for those of us who work on ?data to speech?
(Theune 2001) or ?data to text?
(Reiter 2008) sys-tems, where the expression of quantitative dataplays such a crucial role.
For this reason, I havechosen it as the topic of an informal case study onthe relevance of game theory for NLG.3 Vagueness in situations of conflictFirst, let us focus on a type of situations where itis relatively easy to understand what the differen-tial benefits of vagueness can be.
We start by ex-amining a game-theoretic study of a different phe-nomenon: ambiguity.3.1 The utility of ambiguity: Aragone`s andNeemanLike others who have discussed these issues, wetake vagueness to arise if an expression allowsborderline cases.
The word ?tall?, for example,is vague because in a typical context there can bepeople who are difficult to categorise as either tallor not tall: they are somewhat in between, one istempted to say.
Ambiguity is something else.
Itarises when an expression can be meant in a lim-ited number of different ways.
The word ?letter?,for example, is ambiguous because it can refer toone individual character or to the sort of mean-ingful arrangement of characters that people onceused to communicate long distance.
In 1994, twogame theorists asked whether a Game Theoreti-cal explanation might be given for strategic use ofambiguity (i.e., where ambiguity is used on pur-pose), and they came up with the following answer(Aragone`s and Neeman 1994).Suppose two unscrupulous politicians positionthemselves for an election.
Not burdened withany convictions, they are free to choose betweenthree different idiologies (left, right, center), de-pending on what gives them the highest utility; ad-ditionally, they can choose between two commit-ment2 levels, chigh and clow, both representable asreal numbers with chigh > clow.
Unfortunately,Aragone`s and Neeman do not say what a commit-ment level is, but one might think of a more and aless extreme version of their chosen ideology.What combination of an ideology and an com-mitment level should each politician choose?
Thisdepends on the electorate, of course.
Supposethere are three blocs of voters: V(left), V(right)and V(center).
A leftist voter prefers a leftistpolitician, and preferably one with a high commit-ment level.
Confronted with a choice between tworightwing politicians, our leftist voter will preferone with a low commitment.
A rightwing voter be-haves as the mirror-image of the leftist voter, whilethe neutral voter is neutral between the two idiolo-gies but, weary of ideology, she prefers low com-mitment over high commitment.
Commitment, inother words, is only relevant for a choice betweenpoliticians of the same ideology.If this is the whole story then politicians willchoose an ideology and commitment level basedon their estimates of the numbers of voters ineach bloc, trying to maximise their expected pay-off, formulated solely in terms of the likelihood ofwinning the election.
The task for Game Theory isto work out what combination of strategies mightgive both politicians the highest possible payoff,for example in the sense that a policy change byjust one of the two politicans can never improvehis expected payoff.But Aragone`s and Neeman?s model allowspoliticians to look beyond the election, towardstheir anticipated time in government.
Surely, alow commitment is easier to fulfil than a highcommitment, particularly in view of unforeseencontingencies, so it is nicer to be elected on alow-commitment platform that does not tie one?shands too much.
To model this, Aragone`s andNeeman formulate utility in a way that multi-plies the probability of a politician?s winning theelections with a constant that is negatively cor-related to his commitment.
Let Ui(I1, c1; I2, c2)be the utility for politician i given that politician1 chooses ideology I1 with commitment level c1,2Aragone`s and Neeman call these ambiguity levels, butsince the relation with ambiguity is debatable we opt for amore neutral term.
Low commitment equals high ambiguityand conversely.156while politician 2 chooses I2 with level c2.
Fur-thermore, Pi(I1, c1; I2, c2) represents the proba-bility of i winning the elections given this sameconstellation of choices.
Let k ?
chigh.Utility formula: Ui(I1, c1; I2, c2) =Pi(I1, c1; I2, c2)(k ?
ci)Under these assumptions one can show that a lowcommitment level (i.e., clow) can sometimes givea politician a slightly lower probability of winningthe elections (because his core voters will be lessinclined to vote for him), yet a higher overall util-ity (because his time in office will be easier).
Fordetails see Aragone`s and Neeman (1994).3.2 The utility of vaguenessIt is often thought that Aragone`s and Neeman?smodel demonstrates how ambiguity can be usedstrategically, but that it fails to shed light on vague-ness (e.g.
De Jaegher 2003).
I do not see, however,how this view stands up to linguistic scrutiny.
Tosee why, let me construct what strikes me as a pos-sible example.Suppose the ideology in question ?
a leftist, orperhaps a populist one ?
is to take away moneyfrom the 10% of richest people and give it to the10% poorest.
Commitment level, in this case,could be a way of making explicit what percent-age of the top 10% to give away.
One positionmight assert that this has to be, say, 50% of theirincome, while another position might put this fig-ure at 5%.
But if we identified high commitmentwith the 50% position and low commitment withthe 5% position then none of the two commitmentlevels would be ambiguous.
To make one of themambiguous, we would need something like the fol-lowing:The ambiguous politicians?
game:?
I: take money from the 10% of rich-est people and divide it equally over the10% poorest.?
c50: do I with 50% of the money ofeach of the richest people.?
cambiguous: do I with either 5% or50% of the money of each of the rich-est people.But this must be a simplification, for we are deal-ing with a continuum: there is nothing to excludepercentages in between 25% and 5%, for exam-ple.
It seems, therefore, perfectly possible to con-struct a version of Aragone`s and Neeman?s game?
an even more plausible version, I believe ?
thathinges on vagueness.
For example:The vague politicians?
game:?
I and c50: (as above).?
cvague: do I with a large portion of themoney of each of the richest peopleClearly, cvague involves vagueness, because ?alarge portion?
admits borderline cases.
In all im-portant respects the vague politicians?
game isisomorphic to the ambiguous politicians?
game:fierce advocates of redistribution would favour c50over cvague, for example, because the latter leavesthem uncertain over the amount of redistribution.It is also plausible that politicians would prefer toavoid a commitment as clear as c50, because fu-ture contingencies might make it difficult for themto honour this promise.
In fact, one could ex-tend the game with a second election, in which theelectorate could give their verdict on a politician?stime in office, and to adapt the utility formula witha third term which represents the probability ofwinning that second election.
Surely, the break-ing of promises doesn?t do much for a politician?schanges of being re-elected, and a precise promiseis easier to break than a vague one.With help from Aragone`s and Neeman, we havefound a situation in which vagueness has a higherutility than precision.3 It should be noted, how-ever, that this model (and that of De Jaegher 2003likewise) hinges on the fact that the interests of thespeaker and the hearer differ: what?s good for thepolitician may be bad for his voters.
NLG sys-tems can be faced with similar asymmetries, forexample when an artificial doctor decides to keepits predictions vague to avoid being contradictedby the facts; a doctor who says ?These symptomswill disappear fairly soon?
is less likely to getcomplaints than one who says ?These symptomswill have disappeared by midnight next Sunday?.Something similar holds for a roadgritting system(like the one in Turner et al 2008), which mighteasily face lawsuits if it gets things too evidentlywrong.
Advertisements also come to mind, be-3Another game with this property was described in DeJaegher (2003), involving a more complex version of thegame of the two generals (section 2).
De Jaegher?s game letsone general tell the other about the preparedness of the en-emy.
The utility of vagueness hinges on a subtle asymmetrybetween the generals, only one of whom will suffer if the en-emy turns out to be prepared.
Intriguing though it is, I find itdifficult to see how De Jaegher?s game is relevant to everydaycommunication or NLG.157cause the interests of the advertiser may not coin-cide with those of the customer.
?
Examples wherevagueness can save money or face are plentiful,yet one wonders whether vagueness can also beadvantageous in situations where it is one?s honestaim to inform an audience as well as one can.4 Vagueness when there is no conflictSo, let us investigate the advantages of vaguenessin situations that are typical for today?s NLG sys-tems, where the system tries, unselfishly, to assista user to the best of its ability.4.1 Lipman?s questionsThe question why vagueness is used strategicallyin situations where the interests of speakers andhearers are essentially aligned was asked perhapsmost forcefully by the economist Barton Lipman.First he did this in a brief response to an essay bythe famous game theorist Ariel Rubinstein (Lip-man 2000), and later in a growing but still unfin-ished discussion paper (Lipman 2006).
Lipmanuses what we shall call an airport scenario, whereplayer 1 asks player 2 to go to the airport to pickup an acquaintance of player 1.
In its simplestform, the scenario lets player 1 know the referent?sheight with full precision (assuming that such athing is possible), while player 2 carries a perfectmeasuring device.
There are two other people atthe airport, and it is assumed that heights are dis-tributed uniformly between a maximum denotedby 1 and a minimum denoted by 0.
The payoff forboth players ?
please note the symmetry!
?
is 1if player 2 successfully picks the referent, while itis 0 if she fails (i.e., the first person she addressesturns out to be someone else).Lipman observes that, under these assumptions,vagueness would be bad: why would player 2 say?He is tall?, for example, if he can say ?He is183.721cm??
By stating his acquaintance?s exactheight, player 1 will allow player 2 to identify thisperson with almost complete certainty, given thatthe chance of two people having the exact sameheight is almost nil.
Lipman also wonders whatwould happen if only one predicate was availableto player 1.
He proves that, under these assump-tions, optimal communication arises if a word isused in accordance with the following rule:Say ?the tall person?
if height(person) >1/2, else say ?the short person?.Lipman observes that this concept of ?tall?
doesnot involve vagueness, because the rule does notallow any borderline cases: everyone is either tallor short.
In other words, no rationale for vague-ness has yet been found.Note that Lipman is not questioning that vagueutterances can be useful, which they evidently canbe (see e.g.
Parikh 1994 for a convincing demon-stration using a game-theoretic approach).
He isasking whether vague expressions can be moreuseful than any non-vague expression.4.2 Answering LipmanFirst, let us consider a possible modification ofLipman?s scenario.
In this modified airport sce-nario the speaker knows the heights of all threepeople at the airport.
Suddenly it becomes eas-ier to understand why vagueness can be useful.For suppose your acquaintance happens to be thetallest person of the three.
You can then identifyhim as ?the tall guy?.
Arguably, this is safer thanciting the person?s height in centimeters, because?the tall guy?
(meaning, in this case, the same astallest guy) does not require the players to makeany measurements: comparisons between heightscan often be made in an instant, and with moreconfidence than absolute measurements.
I dealtwith cases of this type in my paper on vague de-scriptions (van Deemter 2006), where a generatortakes numerical height measurements to producenoun phrases that involve gradable adjectives: ?thetall guy?, ?the fastest one of the three heavy tor-toises?.
In cases like this, one can argue thatvagueness is only local, in the same way that am-biguity can be merely local, for example when thesentence as a whole allows one to disambiguatean ambiguous word in it (e.g.
when a pronoungets resolved or a lexical item disambiguated).
Inthe modified airport scenario, the noun phrase asa whole (e.g., ?the tall guy?)
allows no borderlinecases, so there is no global vagueness here.Local vagueness is wide-spread and can makeuse of different ?precisification?
mechanisms.When I say of a gymnastic exercise, for example,that it is ?good for young and old?, for example,then there is nothing vague about my descriptionof the people involved: I am using vague wordsto say that this exercise is good for everyone, re-gardless of age.
Although local vagueness consti-tutes some kind of answer to Lipman, most lin-guists assume that globally vague utterances exist158as well (even when the interests of the speaker andthe hearer are aligned).
Let us assume they areright and continue to look for a rationale.Secondly, it has been suggested that strategicvagueness can arise from a desire to reduce the?cost?
of the utterances involved (e.g.
Van Rooij2003, Ja?ger 2008).
One might amplify this ideaby arguing that vague words are part of a highlyefficient mechanism that makes their meaning de-pendent on the context in which they are used.The size constraints on ?a small elephant?, for ex-ample, are very different from those on ?a smallmouse?
; this suggests that vague words may notonly be efficient to use but also efficient to learn(Van Deemter, in preparation).
All this seems trueenough but, as an answer to the question ?Whyvagueness??
it does not stand up to Lipman-stylescrutiny.
Let me explain why not.Consider the earlier-mentioned doctor, whomeasures your body temperature as 39.82 Celcius.By stating that you have ?a high fever?
(instead of?thirty eight point eighty two degrees?)
the doctoris pruning away details that are of questionable rel-evance in the situation at hand.
But this does notforce him to use language that is vague: languagethat allows borderline cases, in other words.
Hecould have achieved a similar economy by round-ing, saying that your temperature is ?
(about) fortydegrees?
; in this way, he would have reduced in-formation without being vague.
The benefits ofinformation reduction can be modelled in a gamewhere communication informs action: if ?38.82Celcius?
and ?39 Celcius?
are associated with thesame medical action (e.g., to take an aspirin) thenthe fact that ?39 Celcius?
is ?cheaper?
to produceand to process will tend to give this expression abetter utility than ?38.82 Celcius?.
But informa-tion reduction does not imply vagueness, so we areback at square one: Why vagueness?It might be thought that things change when un-certainty is taken into account: a measurement of39.82 Celcius is not as exact as it sounds, for ex-ample, because errors are likely.
The result of themeasurement is perhaps best conveyed by a nor-mal distribution of which 39.82 is the mean value,and such a complex curve is difficult to put in justa few words.
Still, the argument of the previousparagraph continues to apply, because the curvecan be summarised without vagueness: the figureof 38.82 Celcius is one such summary.A third suggestion (e.g.
Veltman 2002) is thatvague expressions such as ?high fever?
do morethan just reduce the information obtained from ameasurement.
The expression ?high fever?
alsoadds bias or evaluation to the raw data, namelythe information that the temperature in question isworrisome.
You do not need domain knowledgeto understand the medical implications: hearingthat something medical is ?high?
tells you that youshould be worried.Once again, this sounds like an excellent rea-son for using vagueness, particularly in situationswhere an understanding of the metric in questioncannot be taken for granted (such as oxygen sat-uration, the metrics for which mean little to mostof us).
Still, it is not evident that this justifies theuse of vagueness.
If bias needs to be expressed,then why not simply add it?
Why not state theexact temperature (or an approximation of it) andsay that this reading should be considered worri-some?
One might respond that this would havebeen time and space consuming, but if that is aproblem then why have no conventions arisen forexpressing quantities in two ways, a worrisomeand a non-worrisome one?
Why should bias nec-essarily be coupled with vagueness only, giventhat it is as easy to think of a crisp expression thatcontains bias as it is to think of a vague expressionthat does not (e.g., in the case of an adjective like?tall?)?
A good example of crispness + bias is theword ?obese?, in the sense of having a Body MassIndex of over 30.
For the reason why obesity wasdefined in this way is precisely that this degree ofoverweight is considered medically worrisome.5 Discussion: vagueness and game theory5.1 Vagueness is harder to justifythan you thinkLet us first summarise our findings about vague-ness, some of which will be discussed more fullyin Van Deemter (in preparation).It is often easy to see why vague words come inhandy; the modified airport scenario demonstrateshow vague words can create an information lossthat is only local: by making a vague word partof a referring expression, a crisp borderline is en-forced on a vague concept, resulting in a beauti-fully efficient description (e.g., ?the tall guy?)
thatis arguably clearer than any expression that relieson absolute values.
This means that the utteranceas a whole is not vague at all: it is only locallyvague.
Whether we speak of vagueness in such159situations seems a matter of taste.It is also clear why vagueness can have differ-ential benefits in communication between agentswhose interests differ more than just minimally(cf., Horton and Keysar 1996 for experimental ev-idence of speaker?s laziness in situations wheretheir interests are approximately aligned), such asa politician and his potential voters, or like a pro-fessional who does not wish to be sued by hisclients.
In situations of this kind it can be benefi-cial for a speaker or an NLG system to obfuscate,exploiting the borderline cases inherent in vagueexpressions.Beyond this, it is suprisingly difficult to see howvagueness can be advantageous for NLG.
This ispartly because there appear to exist some linguisticissues that NLG researchers are able to disregard.It seems plausible, for example, that vagueness isunavoidable in situations where no commonly un-derstood metrics are available, for instance whenwe judge how beautiful a sunset is, how wise a per-son, or how dismal the weather.
As long as NLGsystems use tangible input data (about millimetresrainfall, for example, or body temperature), thesereasons for vagueness seem irrelevant.
Similarly,there is much that is unknown about the workingof perception even in simple domains.
What is itthat allows me to talk about the height of someoneI see, for example?
The input to my personal ?gen-erator?
(as opposed to the input to a typical NLGsystem) might not be equivalent to a tidy number.
(Could it be some inherently vague percept, per-haps?)
These difficult questions (see also Lipman2006) must remain unanswered here.5.2 The utility of utilityConfronted with the claim that Game Theoryshould be the theoretical backbone to NLG, somepeople might respond that no new backbone isneeded, because the theory of formal languages,conjoined with a properly expressive variant ofSymbolic Logic, provides sufficient backbone al-ready.
I believe this objection to be misguided.Admittedly, the disciplines in question are wellsuited for saying which Forms can express whichMeanings.
But it is far less clear that these disci-plines have anything to say about the key problemof NLG: how to choose the most effective way toexpress a given Meaning in (for example) English.This is a vacancy that Game Theory would be wellplaced to fulfill, in my opinion.
The present paperhas illustrated this claim by discussing the ques-tion when and why a generator should choose avague expression.
The fact that this discussion hasyet to produce a clear conclusion is, in my opin-ion, not due to any shortcomings of Game Theory,but to the intrinsic difficulty of the problem.There is, of course, a caveat.
The use of gametheory in empirical sciences has, with proper mod-estly, been described as ?modelling by example?(e.g.
Rasmussen 2001): a mathematical gameshows us an example of how things might be, notnecessarily how things are.
The situation is famil-iar to linguists, of course, and from applicationsof mathematics more generally.
By inspecting aformal grammar, for example, one does not learnmuch about language, unless there exists evidencethat the lingistic Forms and Meanings pair up asspecified by the grammar.
In similar fashion, onelearns little from a Game Theoretical model un-less one has reason to accept the assumptions thatwere built into it: the choices that it assumes avail-able to the players, and the payoffs related to eachoutcome of the game, for example.
This meansthat Game Theory can come to the aid of linguis-tic pragmatics and NLG, but that only empiricalresearch can tell us what games people actuallyplay when they communicate.AcknowledgmentsThanks are due to my colleagues Ehud Reiter, Al-bert Gatt and Hans van Ditmarsch, for useful dis-cussions on the theme of this paper.
Funding fromthe EPSRC under the Platform Grant ?AffectingPeople with Natural Language?
(EP/E011764/1) isgratefully acknowledged.ReferencesAragone`s and Neeman 2000.
Enriqueta Aragone`sand Zvika Neeman.
Strategic ambiguity in elec-toral competition.
Journal of Theoretical Politics12, pp.183-204.Bateman 1997.
John Bateman.
Sentence gen-eration and systemic grammar: an introduction.Iwanami Lecture Series: Language Sciences.Iwanami Shoten Publishers, Tokyo.de Jaegher 2003.
Kris de Jaegher.
A game-theoretical rationale for vagueness.
Linguisticsand Philosophy 26: pp.637-659.Dekker and Van Rooij 2000.
Bi-directional Op-timality Theory: an application of Game Theory.160Journal of Semantics 17: 217-242.Ebeling and Gelman 1994.
K.S.Ebeling andS.A.Gelman.
Children?s use of context in inter-preting ?big?
and ?little?.
Child Development 65(4): 1178-1192.Horton and Keysar 1996.
William S. Horton andBoaz Keysar.
When do speakers take into accountcommon ground?
Cognition 59, pp.91-117.Ja?ger 2008.
Gerhard Ja?ger.
Applications of GameTheory in Linguistics.
Language and LinguisticsCompass 2/3.Khan et al2009.
Imtiaz Khan, Kees van Deemter,Graeme Ritchie, Albert Gatt, and AlexandraA.Cleland.
A hearer oriented evaluation of refer-ring expression generation.
Proc.
of 12th Euro-pean Workshop on Natural Language Generation(ENLG-2009).Kibble 2003.
Rodger Kibble.
Both sides now:predictive reference resolution in generation andresolution.
Proc.
of Fifth International Work-shop on Computational Semantics (IWCS-2003).Tilburg, The Netherlands.Klabunde 2009.
Ralph Klabunde.
Towards agame-theoretic approach to content determination.Proc.
of 12th European Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation (ENLG-2009).Lewis 1969.
David Lewis.
Convention ?
A Philo-sophical Study.
Harvard University Press.Lipman 2000.
Barton L.Lipman.
Economicsand Language.
?Comments?
section, Rubinstein(2000).Lipman 2006.
Barton L.Lipman.
Why is languagevague?
Working paper, December 2006, Depart-ment of Economics, Boston University.McDonald 1987.
Natural Language Generation.In S.Shapiro Encyclopaedia of Artificial Intelli-gence, Volume 1.
John Wiley, New York.Mellish and Van der Sluis 2009.
Chris Mellishand Ielka van der Sluis.
Towards empirical evalua-tion of affective tactical NLG.
Proc.
of 12th Euro-pean Workshop on Natural Language Generation(ENLG-2009)Von Neumann and Morgenstern 1944.
John vonNeumann and Oskar Morgenstern.
Theory ofgames and economic behavior.
Wiley & Sons,Princeton, New Jersey.Parikh 1994.
Rohit Parikh.
Vagueness and utility:the semantics of common nouns.
Linguistics andPhilosophy 17: 521-535.Peccei 1994.
Jean Stilwell Peccei.
Child Lan-guage.
Routledge.Rasmussen 2001.
Eric Rasmussen.
Games & In-formation: an introduction to game theory.
ThirdEdition.
Blackwell Publishing.Reiter and Dale 2000.
Ehud Reiter and RobertDale.
Building natural language generation sys-tems.
Cambridge University Press.
Cambridge.Reiter 2007.
Ehud Reiter.
An architecture fordata-to-text systems.
In Procs.
of 11th Euro-pean Workshop on Natural Language Generation(ENLG-2007): pp.97-104.Rubinstein 1998.
Ariel Rubinstein.
ModelingBounded Rationality.
MIT Press, CambridgeMass.Rubinstein 2000.
Ariel Rubinstein.
Economicsand Language: Five Essays.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.
Cambridge.Theune et al 2001.
M.Theune, E.Klabbers, J.R.de Pijper and E.Krahmer.
From data to speech ageneral approach.
Natural Languag Engineering7 (1): 47-86.Turner et al 2008.
R.Turner, S.Sripada, E.Reiterand I.P.Davy.
Using spatial reference frames togenerate grounded textual summaries of georefer-enced data.
In Proceedings of INLG-2008.
SaltFork, Ohio, USA.Van Deemter 2004.
Kees van Deemter.
Towardsa probabilistic version of bidirectional OT syntaxand semantics.
Journal of Semantics 21 (3).Van Deemter 2006.
Kees van Deemter.
Gener-ating referring expressions that involve gradableproperties.
Computational Linguistics 32 (2).Van Deemter (in preparation).
Kees van Deemter.Not Exactly: in Praise of Vagueness.
To appearwith Oxford University Press.Van Rooij 2003.
Robert van Rooij.
Being polite isa handicap: towards a game theoretical analysis ofpolite linguistic behavior.
In Procs.
of TheoreticalAspects of Rationality and Knowledge (TARK-9),Bloomington, Indiana.Veltman 2002.
Frank Veltman.
Het verschil tussen?vaag?
en ?niet precies?.
(The difference between?vague?
and ?not precise?.)
Inaugural lecture.
Vos-siuspers, University of Amsterdam.161
