Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Parsing Technologies (IWPT), pages 108?116,Paris, October 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsCapturing Consistency between Intra-clause and Inter-clause Relationsin Knowledge-rich Dependency and Case Structure AnalysisDaisuke KawaharaNational Institute of Information andCommunications Technology,3-5 Hikaridai Seika-cho, Soraku-gun,Kyoto, 619-0289, Japandk@nict.go.jpSadao KurohashiGraduate School of Informatics,Kyoto University,Yoshida-Honmachi, Sakyo-ku,Kyoto, 606-8501, Japankuro@i.kyoto-u.ac.jpAbstractWe present a method for dependency andcase structure analysis that captures theconsistency between intra-clause relations(i.e., case structures or predicate-argumentstructures) and inter-clause relations.
Weassess intra-clause relations on the basisof case frames and inter-clause relationson the basis of transition knowledge be-tween case frames.
Both knowledge basesare automatically acquired from a mas-sive amount of parses of a Web corpus.The significance of this study is that theproposed method selects the best depen-dency and case structure that are con-sistent within each clause and betweenclauses.
We confirm that this method con-tributes to the improvement of dependencyparsing of Japanese.1 IntroductionThe approaches of dependency parsing basicallyassess the likelihood of a dependency relation be-tween two words or phrases and subsequentlycollect all the assessments for these pairs as thedependency parse of the sentence.
To improvedependency parsing, it is important to consideras broad a context as possible, rather than aword/phrase pair.In the recent evaluation workshops (sharedtasks) of multilingual dependency parsing (Buch-holz and Marsi, 2006; Nivre et al, 2007),transition-based and graph-based methodsachieved good performance by incorporating richcontext.
Transition-based dependency parsersconsider the words following the word underconsideration as features of machine learning(Kudo and Matsumoto, 2002; Nivre and Scholz,2004; Sassano, 2004).
Graph-based dependencyparsers consider sibling and grandparent nodes,i.e., second-order and higher-order features(McDonald and Pereira, 2006; Carreras, 2007;Nakagawa, 2007).It is desirable to consider a wider-range phrase,clause, or a whole sentence, but it is difficult tojudge whether the structure of such a wide-rangeexpression is linguistically correct.
One of the rea-sons for this is the scarcity of the knowledge re-quired to make such a judgment.
When we usethe Penn Treebank (Marcus et al, 1993), which isone of the largest corpora among the available ana-lyzed corpora, as training data, even bi-lexical de-pendencies cannot be learned sufficiently (Bikel,2004).
To circumvent such scarcity, for instance,Koo et al (2008) proposed the use of word classesinduced by clustering words in a large raw cor-pus.
They succeeded in improving the accuracy ofa higher-order dependency parser.On the other hand, some researchers have pro-posed other approaches where linguistic units suchas predicate-argument structures (also known ascase structures and logical forms) are consideredinstead of arbitrary nodes such as sibling nodes.To solve the problem of knowledge scarcity, theylearned knowledge of such predicate-argumentstructures from a very large number of automat-ically analyzed corpora (Abekawa and Okumura,2006; Kawahara and Kurohashi, 2006b).
WhileAbekawa and Okumura (2006) used only co-occurrence statistics of verbal arguments, Kawa-hara and Kurohashi (2006b) assessed predicate-argument structures by checking case frames,which are semantic frames that are automaticallycompiled for each predicate sense from a large rawcorpus.
These methods outperformed the accuracyof supervised dependency parsers.In such linguistically-motivated approaches,well-formedness within a clause was considered,but coherence between clauses was not con-sidered.
Even if intra-clause relations (i.e., apredicate-argument structure within a clause) are108p o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t eo r g a n i z et a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a t( b 1 )( a 1 )( c 1 )( a 2 )( b 2 )( c 2 )( a 3 )( b 3 )( c 3 )3 3 33 3 33 3 3p o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t ep a c kt a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tp o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t eo r g a n i z et a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tp o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t ep a c kt a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tp o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t eo r g a n i z et a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tp o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t ep a c kt a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tp o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t ep a c kt a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tp o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t eo r g a n i z et a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tp o i n t o  w a ,p o i n t T O Phi t o t s u  n io n e D A Tm a t o m e t ep a c kt a k uha i b i n  d ec o u r i e r C M Io k u r us e n dk o t o  d e s ube t h a tFigure 1: Possible dependency and case structures of sentence (1).optimized, they might not be optimum when look-ing at clause pairs or sequences.
To improve theaccuracy of dependency parsing, we propose amethod for dependency and case structure analy-sis that considers the consistency between intra-clause and inter-clause relations.
This method an-alyzes intra-clause relations on the basis of caseframes and inter-clause relations on the basis oftransition knowledge between case frames.
Thesetwo knowledge sources are automatically acquiredfrom a massive amount of parses of a Web corpus.The contributions of this paper are two-fold.First, we acquire transition knowledge not be-tween verbs or verb phrases but between caseframes, which are semantically disambiguatedrepresentations.
Second, we incorporate the tran-sition knowledge into dependency and case struc-ture analysis to capture the consistency betweenintra-clause and inter-clause relations.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
Section 2 illustrates our idea.
Section3 describes a method for acquiring the transi-tion knowledge.
Section 4 explains the proposedmethod of incorporating the acquired transitionknowledge into a probabilistic model of depen-dency and case structure analysis.
Section 5 re-ports experimental results.
Section 6 gives theconclusions.1092 Idea of Capturing Consistency betweenIntra-clause and Inter-clause RelationsWe propose a method for generative dependencyparsing that captures the consistency betweenintra-clause and inter-clause relations.Figure 1 shows the ambiguities of dependencyand case structure of pointo-wa (point-TOP) in thefollowing sentence:(1) pointo-wa,point-TOPhitotsu-nione-DATmatometepacktakuhaibin-decourier-CMIokurusendkoto-desube that(The point is that (we) pack (one?s bag-gage) and send (it) using courier service.
)The correct structure is (c1), which is surroundedby the dotted rectangle.
Structures (c2), (c3)and so on have the same dependency structure as(c1), but have incorrect case structures, in whichincorrect case frames are selected.
Note thatmatomeru:5, okuru:6 and so on in the figure rep-resent the IDs of the case frames.The parser of Kawahara and Kurohashi (2006b)(and also conventional Japanese parsers) erro-neously analyzes the head of pointo-wa (point-TOP)1 as matomete (organize), whereas the cor-rect head is koto-desu (be that), as shown in struc-ture (a1) in Figure 1.This error is caused by the incorrect selectionof the case frame matomeru:6 (organize), which isshown in Table 1.
This case frame locally matchesthe input predicate-argument structure ?pointo-wahitotsu-ni matomeru?
(organize points).
There-fore, this method considers only intra-clause re-lations, and falls into local optimum.If we consider the wide range of two clauses,this error can be corrected.
In structure (a1)in Figure 1, the generative probability of caseframe transition, P (matomeru:6|okuru:6), is con-sidered.
This probability value is very low, be-cause there are few relations between the caseframe matomeru:6 (organize) and the case frameokuru:6 (send baggage) in corpora.Consequently, structure (c1) is chosen as thecorrect one, where both intra-clause and inter-clause relations can be interpreted by the case1In this paper, we use the following abbreviations:NOM (nominative), ACC (accusative), ABL (ablative),CMI (comitative) and TOP (topic marker).Table 1: Case frame examples for matomeru andokuru.
?CS?
represents case slot.
Argument wordsare written only in English.
?<num>?
representsthe class of numerals.case frame ID CS example words... ... ...matomeru:5(pack)ga I, person, ...wo baggage, luggage, variables, ...ni <num>, pieces, compact, ...matomeru:6(organize)ga doctor, ...wo point, singularity, ...ni <num>, pieces, below, ...... ... ...okuru:1(send)ga person, I, ...wo mail, message, information, ...ni friend, address, direction, ...de mail, post, postage, ...... ... ...okuru:6(send)ga woman, ...wo baggage, supply, goods, ...ni person, Japan, parental house, ...de mail, post, courier, ...... ... ...frames and the transition knowledge between caseframes.3 Acquiring Transition Knowledgebetween Case FramesWe automatically acquire large-scale transitionknowledge of inter-clause relations from a rawcorpus.
The following two points are differentfrom previous studies on the acquisition of inter-clause knowledge such as entailment/synonymknowledge (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Torisawa, 2006;Pekar, 2006; Zanzotto et al, 2006), verb relationknowledge (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004), causalknowledge (Inui et al, 2005) and event relationknowledge (Abe et al, 2008):?
the unit of knowledge is disambiguated andgeneralizedThe unit in previous studies was a verb or averb phrase, in which verb sense ambiguitiesstill remain.
Our unit is case frames that aresemantically disambiguated.?
the variation of relations is not limitedAlthough previous studies focused on lim-ited kinds of semantic relations, we compre-hensively collect generic relations betweenclauses.110In this section, we first describe our unit oftransition knowledge, case frames, briefly.
Wethen detail the acquisition method of the transitionknowledge, and report experimental results.
Fi-nally, we refer to related work to the acquisition ofsuch knowledge.3.1 The Unit of Transition Knowledge: CaseFramesIn this paper, we regard case frames as the unit oftransition knowledge.
Case frames are constructedfrom unambiguous structures and are semanticallyclustered according to their meanings and usages.Therefore, case frames can be a less ambiguousand more generalized unit than a verb and a verbphrase.
Due to these characteristics, case framesare a suitable unit for acquiring transition knowl-edge and weaken the influence of data sparseness.3.1.1 Automatic Construction of CaseFramesWe employ the method of Kawahara and Kuro-hashi (2006a) to automatically construct caseframes.
In this section, we outline the method forconstructing the case frames.In this method, a large raw corpus is auto-matically parsed, and the case frames are con-structed from argument-head examples in the re-sulting parses.
The problems in automatic caseframe construction are syntactic and semantic am-biguities.
In other words, the parsing results in-evitably contain errors, and verb senses are intrin-sically ambiguous.
To cope with these problems,case frames are gradually constructed from reli-able argument-head examples.First, argument-head examples that have nosyntactic ambiguity are extracted, and they are dis-ambiguated by a pair comprising a verb and itsclosest case component.
Such pairs are explic-itly expressed on the surface of the text and can beconsidered to play an important role in conveyingthe meaning of a sentence.
For instance, exam-ples are distinguished not by verbs (e.g., ?tsumu?
(load/accumulate)), but by pairs (e.g., ?nimotsu-wo tsumu?
(load baggage) and ?keiken-wo tsumu?
(accumulate experience)).
argument-head exam-ples are aggregated in this manner, and they yieldbasic case frames.Thereafter, the basic case frames are clusteredin order to merge similar case frames, includingsimilar case frames that are made from scram-bled sentences.
For example, since ?nimotsu-wo tsumu?
(load baggage) and ?busshi-wo tsumu?
(load supply) are similar, they are clustered to-gether.
The similarity is measured by using a dis-tributional thesaurus based on the study describedin Lin (1998).3.2 Acquisition of Transition Knowledgefrom Large CorpusTo acquire the transition knowledge, we collect theclause pairs in a large raw corpus that have a de-pendency relation and represent them as pairs ofcase frames.
For example, from the following sen-tence, a case frame pair, (matomeru:5, okuru:6), isextracted.
(2) nimotsu-wobaggage-ACCmatomete,packtakuhaibin-decourier-CMIokuttasent(packed one?s baggage and sent (it) usingcourier service)These case frames are determined by applyinga conventional case structure analyzer (Kawa-hara and Kurohashi, 2006b), which selects thecase frames most similar to the input expres-sions ?nimotu-wo matomeru?
(pack baggage) and?takuhaibin-de okuru?
(send with courier service)from among the case frames of matomeru (or-ganize/settle/pack/...) and okuru (send/remit/seeoff/...); some of the case frames of matomeru andokuru are listed in Table 1.We adopt the following steps to acquire the tran-sition knowledge between case frames:1.
Apply dependency and case structure analy-sis to assign case frame IDs to each clause ina large raw corpus.2.
Collect clause pairs that have a dependencyrelation, and represent them as pairs of caseframe IDs.3.
Count the frequency of each pair of caseframe IDs; these statistics are used in theanalysis described in Section 4.At step 2, we collect both syntactically ambigu-ous and unambiguous relations in order to allevi-ate data sparseness.
The influence of a small num-ber of dependency parsing errors would be hiddenby a large number of correct (unambiguous) rela-tions.111Table 2: Examples of automatically acquired transition knowledge between case frames.pairs of case frame IDs meaning freq.
(okuru:1, okuru:6) (send mails, send baggage) 186(aru:1, okuru:6) (have, send baggage) 150(suru:1, okuru:6) (do, send baggage) 134(issyoda:10, okuru:6) (get together, send baggage) 118(kaku:1, okuru:6) (write, send baggage) 115... ... ...(matomeru:5, okuru:6) (pack, send baggage) 12(dasu:3, okuru:6) (indicate, send baggage) 12... ... ...3.3 Experiments of Acquiring TransitionKnowledge between Case FramesTo obtain the case frames and the transition knowl-edge between case frames, we first built a JapaneseWeb corpus by using the method of Kawahara andKurohashi (2006a).
We first crawled 100 millionJapanese Web pages, and then, we extracted andunduplicated Japanese sentences from the Webpages.
Consequently, we developed a Web corpusconsisting of 1.6 billion Japanese sentences.Using the procedure of case frame constructionpresented in Section 3.1.1, we constructed caseframes from the whole Web corpus.
They con-sisted of 43,000 predicates, and the average num-ber of case frames for a predicate was 22.2.Then, we acquired the transition knowledge be-tween case frames using 500 million sentences ofthe Web corpus.
The resulting knowledge con-sisted of 108 million unique case frame pairs.
Ta-ble 2 lists some examples of the acquired transitionknowledge.
In the acquired transition knowledge,we can find various kinds of relation such as en-tailment, cause-effect and temporal relations.Let us compare this result with the results ofprevious studies.
For example, Chklovski andPantel (2004) obtained 29,165 verb pairs for sev-eral semantic relations in VerbOcean.
The tran-sition knowledge acquired in this study is severalthousand times larger than that in VerbOcean.
Itis very difficult to make a meaningful compari-son, but it can be seen that we have succeeded inacquiring generic transition knowledge on a largescale.3.4 Related WorkIn order to realize practical natural language pro-cessing (NLP) systems such as intelligent dialogsystems, a lot of effort has been made to developworld knowledge or inference knowledge.
For ex-ample, in the CYC (Lenat, 1995) and Open Mind(Stork, 1999) projects, such knowledge has beenobtained manually, but it is difficult to manuallydevelop broad-coverage knowledge that is suffi-cient for practical use in NLP applications.On the other hand, the automatic acquisition ofsuch inference knowledge from corpora has at-tracted much attention in recent years.
First, se-mantic knowledge between entities has been au-tomatically obtained (Girju and Moldovan, 2002;Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002; Pantel and Pennac-chiotti, 2006).
For example, Pantel and Pennac-chiotti (2006) proposed the Espresso algorithm,which iteratively acquires entity pairs and extrac-tion patterns using reciprocal relationship betweenentities and patterns.As for the acquisition of the knowledge be-tween events or clauses, which is most relevantto this study, many approaches have been adoptedto acquire entailment knowledge.
Lin and Pan-tel (2001) and Szpektor and Dagan (2008) learnedentailment rules based on distributional similar-ity between instances that have a relation to arule.
Torisawa (2006) extracted entailment knowl-edge using coordinated verb pairs and noun-verbco-occurrences.
Pekar (2006) also collected en-tailment knowledge with discourse structure con-straints.
Zanzotto et al (2006) obtained entailmentknowledge using nominalized verbs.There have been some studies on relations otherthan entailment relations.
Chklovski and Pan-tel (2004) obtained verb pairs that have one offive semantic relations by using a search engine.Inui et al (2005) classified the occurrences ofthe Japanese connective marker tame.
Abe et al112(2008) learned event relation knowledge for twosemantic relations.
They first gave seed pairs ofverbs or verb phrases and extracted the patternsthat matched these seed pairs.
Subsequently, byusing the Espresso algorithm (Pantel and Pennac-chiotti, 2006), this process was iterated to augmentboth instances and patterns.
The acquisition unitin these studies was a verb or a verb phrase.In contrast to these studies, we obtained generictransition knowledge between case frames withoutlimiting target semantic relations.4 Incorporating Transition Knowledgeinto Dependency and Case StructureAnalysisWe employ the probabilistic generative model ofdependency and case structure analysis (Kawaharaand Kurohashi, 2006b) as a base model.
We incor-porate the obtained transition knowledge into thisbase parser.Our model assigns a probability to each possi-ble dependency structure, T , and case structure,L, of the input sentence, S, and outputs the de-pendency and case structure that have the highestprobability.
In other words, the model selects thedependency structure T best and the case structureLbest that maximize the probability P (T,L|S) orits equivalent, P (T,L, S), as follows:(T best, Lbest) = argmax (T,L)P (T,L|S)= argmax (T,L)P (T,L, S)P (S)= argmax (T,L)P (T,L, S).
(1)The last equation follows from the fact that P (S)is constant.In the model, a clause (or predicate-argumentstructure) is considered as a generation unit andthe input sentence is generated from the end of thesentence.
The probability P (T,L, S) is definedas the product of the probabilities of generatingclauses Ci as follows:P (T,L, S) = ?
Ci?SP (Ci|Ch), (2)where Ch is the modifying clause of Ci.
Since theJapanese language is head final, the main clause atthe end of a sentence does not have a modifyinghead; we account for this by assuming Ch = EOS(End Of Sentence).The probability P (Ci|Ch) is defined in a man-ner similar to that in Kawahara and Kurohashi(2006b).
However, the difference between theprobability in the above-mentioned study and thatin our study is the generative probability of thecase frames, i.e., the probability of generating acase frame CF i from its modifying case frameCF h. The base model approximated this proba-bility as the product of the probability of gener-ating a predicate vi from its modifying predicatevh and the probability of generating a case frameCF i from the predicate vi as follows:P (CF i|CF h) ?P (vi|vh)?
P (CF i|vi).
(3)Our proposed model directly estimates the proba-bility P (CF i|CF h) and considers the transitionlikelihood between case frames.
This probabil-ity is calculated from the transition knowledge be-tween case frames using maximum likelihood.In practice, to avoid the data sparseness prob-lem, we interpolate the probability P (CF i|CF h)with the probability of generating predicates,P (vi|vh), as follows:P ?
(CF i|CF h) ?
?P (CF i|CF h) + (1?
?
)P (vi|vh), (4)where ?
is determined using the frequencies of thecase frame pairs, (CF i, CF h), in the same man-ner as in Collins (1999).5 ExperimentsWe evaluated the dependency structures that wereoutput by our new dependency parser.
The caseframes used in these experiments are the same asthose described in Section 3.3, which were au-tomatically constructed from 1.6 billion Japanesesentences obtained from the Web.In this study, the parameters related to unlexi-cal types were calculated from the Kyoto Univer-sity Text Corpus, which is a small tagged corpusof newspaper articles, and lexical parameters wereobtained from a large Web corpus.
To evaluate theeffectiveness of our model, our experiments wereconducted using sentences obtained from the Web.As a test corpus, we used 759 Web sentences2,which were manually annotated using the samecriteria as those in the case of the Kyoto Univer-sity Text Corpus.
We also used the Kyoto Univer-sity Text Corpus as a development corpus to op-timize some smoothing parameters.
The system2The test set was not used to construct case frames andestimate probabilities.113Table 3: The dependency accuracies in our experiments.syn syn+case syn+case+consall 4,555/5,122 (88.9%) 4,581/5,122 (89.4%) 4,599/5,122 (89.8%)NP?VP 2,115/2,383 (88.8%) 2,142/2,383 (89.9%) 2,151/2,383 (90.3%)NP?NP 1,068/1,168 (91.4%) 1,068/1,168 (91.4%) 1,068/1,168 (91.4%)VP?VP 779/928 (83.9%) 777/928 (83.7%) 783/928 (84.4%)VP?NP 579/623 (92.9%) 579/623 (92.9%) 582/623 (93.4%)input was automatically tagged using the JUMANmorphological analyzer 3.We used two baseline systems for the purposesof comparison: a rule-based dependency parser(Kurohashi and Nagao, 1994) and the probabilisticgenerative model of dependency and case struc-ture analysis (Kawahara and Kurohashi, 2006b)4.We use the above-mentioned case frames also inthe latter baseline parser, which also requires au-tomatically constructed case frames.5.1 Evaluation of Dependency StructuresWe evaluated the obtained dependency structuresin terms of phrase-based dependency accuracy ?the proportion of correct dependencies out of alldependencies5.Table 3 lists the dependency accuracies.
In thistable, ?syn?
represents the rule-based dependencyparser, ?syn+case?
represents the probabilisticparser of syntactic and case structure (Kawaharaand Kurohashi, 2006b)6, and ?syn+case+cons?represents our proposed model.
In the table, thedependency accuracies are classified into four cat-egories on the basis of the phrase classes (VP:verb phrase7 and NP: noun phrase) of a dependentand its head.
The parser ?syn+case+cons?
signif-icantly outperformed the two baselines for ?all?
(McNemar?s test; p < 0.05).
In particular, the ac-curacy of the intra-clause (predicate-argument) re-lations (?NP?VP?)
was improved by 1.5% from?syn?
and by 0.4% from ?syn+case.?
These im-3http://nlp.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/juman-e.html4http://nlp.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/knp-e.html5Since Japanese is head-final, the second to last phraseunambiguously depends on the last phrase.
However, we in-clude such dependencies into our evaluation as in most ofprevious studies.6The accuracy described in Kawahara and Kurohashi(2006b) is different from that of this paper due to the differentevaluation measure excluding the unambiguous dependenciesof the second last phrases.7VP includes not only verbs but also adjectives and nounswith copula.provements are due to the incorporation of thetransition knowledge into syntactic/case structureanalysis.In order to compare our results with a state-of-the-art discriminative dependency parser, we in-put the test corpus into an SVM-based Japanesedependency parser, CaboCha8(Kudo and Mat-sumoto, 2002), which was trained using the KyotoUniversity Text Corpus.
Its dependency accuracywas 88.6% (4,540/5,122), which is close to that of?syn.?
This low accuracy is attributed to the lackof knowledge of both intra-clause and inter-clauserelations.
Another cause of the low accuracy is theout-of-domain training corpus.
In other words, theparser was trained on a newspaper corpus, whilethe test corpus was obtained from theWeb becausea tagged Web corpus that is large enough to traina supervised parser is not available.5.2 DiscussionsFigure 2 shows some improved analyses; here, thedotted lines represent the results of the analysisperformed using the baseline ?syn + case,?
andthe solid lines represent the analysis performedusing the proposed method, ?syn+case+cons.
?These sentences are incorrectly analyzed by thebaseline but correctly analyzed by the proposedmethod.
For example, in sentence (a), the head ofgunegunemichi-wo (winding road-ACC) was cor-rectly analyzed as yurareru (be jolted).
This isbecause the case frame of ?basu-ni yurareru?
(bejolted by bus) is likely to generate tatsu (stand)that does not take the wo (ACC) slot.
In this man-ner, by considering the transition knowledge be-tween case frames, the selection of case framesbecame accurate, and thus, the accuracy of thedependencies within clauses (predicate-argumentstructures) was improved.In the case of the dependencies between pred-icates (VP?VP), however, only small improve-8http://chasen.org/?taku/software/cabocha/114?
?
(a) gunegunemichi-wo tattamama basu-ni yurareru toko-wo kakugoshimashita.winding road-ACC stand bus-DAT be jolted (that)-ACC be resolved(be resolved to be jolted standing on the bus by the winding road.)??
(b) nanika-wo eru tame-ni suteta mono-nimo miren-wo nokoshiteiru.something-ACC get for discarded thing-also lingering desire-ACC retain(retain a lingering desire also for the thing that was discarded to get something.)??
(c) senbei-no hako-wa, kankaku-wo akete chinretsusareteiruno-ga mata yoi.rice cracker-GEN box-TOP interval-ACC place be displayed-NOM also good(It is also good that boxes of rice cracker are displayed placing an interval.
)Figure 2: Improved examples.?
?
(d) ketsuron-kara itteshimaeba, kaitearukoto-wa machigattenaishi, juyouna kotodato-wa wakaru.conclusion-ABL say content-TOP not wrong important (that)-TOP understand(Saying from conclusions, the content is not wrong and (I) understand that (it) is important)Figure 3: An erroneous example.ments were achieved by using the transitionknowledge between case frames.
This is mainlybecause the heads of the predicates are intrinsi-cally ambiguous in many cases.For example, in sentence (d) in Figure 3, thecorrect head of itteshimaeba (say) is wakaru (un-derstand) as designated by the solid line, but ourmodel incorrectly judged the head to be machigat-teinaishi, (not wrong) as designated by the dottedline.
However, in this case, both the phrases thatare being modified are semantically related to themodifier.
To solve this problem, it is necessary tore-consider the evaluation metrics of dependencyparsing.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we have described a method for ac-quiring the transition knowledge of inter-clause re-lations and a method for incorporating this knowl-edge into dependency and case structure analy-sis.
The significance of this study is that the pro-posed parsing method selects the best dependencyand case structures that are consistent within eachclause and between clauses.
We confirmed thatthis method contributed to the improvement of thedependency parsing of Japanese.The case frames that are acquired from 1.6 bil-lion Japanese sentences have been made freelyavailable to the public9.
In addition, we are prepar-ing to make the acquired transition knowledge ac-cessible on the Web.In future, we will investigate the iteration ofknowledge acquisition and parsing based on theacquired knowledge.
Since our parser is a gener-ative model, we are expecting a performance gainby the iteration.
Furthermore, we would like to ex-plore the use of the transition knowledge betweencase frames to improve NLP applications such asrecognizing textual entailment (RTE) and sentencegeneration.ReferencesShuya Abe, Kentaro Inui, and Yuji Matsumoto.
2008.Acquiring event relation knowledge by learningcooccurrence patterns and fertilizing cooccurrencesamples with verbal nouns.
In Proceedings of IJC-NLP2008, pages 497?504.Takeshi Abekawa and Manabu Okumura.
2006.Japanese dependency parsing using co-occurrenceinformation and a combination of case elements.
InProceedings of COLING-ACL2006, pages 833?840.Daniel M. Bikel.
2004.
Intricacies of Collins?
parsingmodel.
Computational Linguistics, 30(4):479?511.9http://nlp.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/caseframe-e.html115Sabine Buchholz and Erwin Marsi.
2006.
CoNLL-Xshared task on multilingual dependency parsing.
InProceedings of CoNLL-X, pages 149?164.Xavier Carreras.
2007.
Experiments with a higher-order projective dependency parser.
In Proceedingsof EMNLP-CoNLL2007 Shared Task, pages 957?961.Timothy Chklovski and Patrick Pantel.
2004.
VerbO-cean: Mining the web for fine-grained semantic verbrelations.
In Proceedings of EMNLP2004, pages33?40.Michael Collins.
1999.
Head-Driven Statistical Mod-els for Natural Language Parsing.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Pennsylvania.Roxana Girju and Dan Moldovan.
2002.
Mining an-swers for causation questions.
In Proceedings ofAAAI Spring Symposium.Takashi Inui, Kentaro Inui, and Yuji Matsumoto.2005.
Acquiring causal knowledge from text us-ing the connective marker tame.
ACM Transactionson Asian Language Information Processing (ACM-TALIP), 4(4):435?474.Daisuke Kawahara and Sadao Kurohashi.
2006a.Case frame compilation from the web usinghigh-performance computing.
In Proceedings ofLREC2006.Daisuke Kawahara and Sadao Kurohashi.
2006b.
Afully-lexicalized probabilistic model for Japanesesyntactic and case structure analysis.
In Proceed-ings of HLT-NAACL2006, pages 176?183.Terry Koo, Xavier Carreras, and Michael Collins.2008.
Simple semi-supervised dependency parsing.In Proceedings of ACL-08:HLT, pages 595?603.Taku Kudo and Yuji Matsumoto.
2002.
Japanese de-pendency analysis using cascaded chunking.
In Pro-ceedings of CoNLL2002, pages 29?35.Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1994.
A syn-tactic analysis method of long Japanese sentencesbased on the detection of conjunctive structures.Computational Linguistics, 20(4):507?534.Douglas B. Lenat.
1995.
CYC: A large-scale invest-ment in knowledge infrastructure.
Communicationsof the ACM, 38(11):32?38.Dekang Lin and Patrick Pantel.
2001.
DIRT - discov-ery of inference rules from text.
In Proceedings ofACM SIGKDDConference on Knowledge Discoveryand Data Mining, pages 323?328.Dekang Lin.
1998.
Automatic retrieval and cluster-ing of similar words.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL98, pages 768?774.Mitchell Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, and MaryMarcinkiewicz.
1993.
Building a large annotatedcorpus of English: the Penn Treebank.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 19(2):313?330.Ryan McDonald and Fernando Pereira.
2006.
Onlinelearning of approximate dependency parsing algo-rithms.
In Proceedings of EACL2006, pages 81?88.Tetsuji Nakagawa.
2007.
Multilingual dependencyparsing using global features.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP-CoNLL2007 Shared Task, pages 952?956.Joakim Nivre and Mario Scholz.
2004.
Deterministicdependency parsing of English text.
In Proceedingsof COLING2004, pages 64?70.Joakim Nivre, Johan Hall, Sandra Ku?bler, Ryan Mc-Donald, Jens Nilsson, Sebastian Riedel, and DenizYuret.
2007.
The CoNLL 2007 shared task ondependency parsing.
In Proceedings of EMNLP-CoNLL2007, pages 915?932.Patrick Pantel and Marco Pennacchiotti.
2006.Espresso: Leveraging generic patterns for automati-cally harvesting semantic relations.
In Proceedingsof COLING-ACL2006, pages 113?120.Viktor Pekar.
2006.
Acquisition of verb entailmentfrom text.
In Proceedings of HLT-NAACL2006,pages 49?56.Deepak Ravichandran and Eduard Hovy.
2002.
Learn-ing surface text patterns for a question answeringsystem.
In Proceedings of ACL2002, pages 41?47.Manabu Sassano.
2004.
Linear-time dependency anal-ysis for Japanese.
In Proceedings of COLING2004,pages 8?14.David G. Stork.
1999.
Character and document re-search in the open mind initiative.
In Proceedingsof International Conference on Document Analysisand Recognition, pages 1?12.Idan Szpektor and Ido Dagan.
2008.
Learning entail-ment rules for unary templates.
In Proceedings ofCOLING2008, pages 849?856.Kentaro Torisawa.
2006.
Acquiring inference ruleswith temporal constraints by using Japanese coordi-nated sentences and noun-verb co-occurrences.
InProceedings of HLT-NAACL2006, pages 57?64.Fabio Massimo Zanzotto, Marco Pennacchiotti, andMaria Teresa Pazienza.
2006.
Discovering asym-metric entailment relations between verbs using se-lectional preferences.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL2006, pages 849?856.116
