Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 131?138,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPPhilippine Language Resources: Trends and DirectionsRachel Edita Roxas Charibeth Cheng Nathalie Rose LimCenter for Language TechnologiesCollege of Computer StudiesDe La Salle University2401 Taft Ave, Manila, Philippinesrachel.roxas, chari.cheng, nats.lim@delasalle.phAbstractWe present the diverse research activities onPhilippine languages from all over the country,with focus on the Center for Language Tech-nologies of the College of Computer Studies,De La Salle University, Manila, where major-ity of the work are conducted.
These projectsinclude the formal representation of Philippinelanguages and the processes involving theselanguages.
Language representation entailsthe manual and automatic development of lan-guage resources such as lexicons and corporafor various human languages including Philip-pine languages, across various forms such astext, speech and video files.
Tools and appli-cations on languages that we have worked oninclude morphological processes, part ofspeech tagging, language grammars, machinetranslation, sign language processing andspeech systems.
Future directions are alsopresented.1 IntroductionThe Philippines is an archipelagic nation inSoutheast Asia with more than 7,100 islands with168 natively spoken languages (Gordon, 2005).These islands are grouped into three main islandgroups: Luzon (northern Philippines), Visayas(central) and Mindanao (southern), and variousPhilippine languages distributed among its is-lands.Little is known historically about these lan-guages.
The most concrete evidence that wehave is the Doctrina Christiana, the first everpublished work in the country in 1593 whichcontains the translation of religious material inthe local Philippine script (the Alibata), Spanishand old Tagalog (a sample page is shown in Fig-ure 1, courtesy of the University of Sto.
TomasLibrary, 2007).
Alibata is an ancient Philippinescript that is no longer widely used except for afew locations in the country.
The old Tagaloghas evolved to the new Filipino alphabet whichnow consists of 26 letters of the Latin script and?ng?
and ??
?.The development of the national language canbe traced back to the 1935 Constitution ArticleXIV, Section 3 which states that "...Congressshall make necessary steps towards the develop-ment of a national language which will be basedon one of the existing native languages..." due tothe advocacy of then Philippine PresidentManuel L. Quezon for the development of a na-tional language that will unite the whole country.Two years later, Tagalog was recommended asthe basis of the national language, which waslater officially called Pilipino.
In the 1987 Con-stitution, Article XIV, Section 6, states that ?theNational language of the Philippines is Filipino.As it evolves, it shall be further developed andenriched on the basis of existing Philippine andother languages.?
To date, Filipino that is beingtaught in our schools is basically Tagalog, whichis the predominant language being used in thearchipelago.1Figure 1: Alibata, Spanish and Old Tagalog sam-ple page: Doctrina Christiana (courtesy of theUniversity of Sto.
Tomas Library, 2007)Table 1 presents data gathered through the2000 Census conducted by the National Statistics1Thus, when we say Filipino, we generally refer toTagalog.131Office, Philippine government, on the Philippinelanguages that are spoken by at least one percentof the population.Languages Number of nativespeakersTagalog 22,000,000Cebuano 20,000,000Ilokano 7,700,000Hiligaynon 7,000,000Waray-Waray 3,100,000Capampangan 2,900,000"Northern Bicol" 2,500,000Chavacano 2,500,000Pangasinan 1,540,000"Southern Bicol" 1,200,000Maranao 1,150,000Maguindanao 1,100,000Kinaray-a 1,051,000Tausug 1,022,000Surigaonon 600,000Masbate?o 530,000Aklanon 520,000Ibanag 320,000Table 1.
Philippine languages spoken by least1% of the population.Linguistics information on Philippine lan-guages are available, but as of yet, the focus hasbeen on theoretical linguistics and little is doneabout the computational aspects of these lan-guages.
To add, much of the work in Philippinelinguistics focused on the Tagalog language (Li-ao, 2006, De Guzman, 1978).
In the same token,NLP researches have been focused on Tagalog,although pioneering work on other languagessuch as Cebuano, Hiligaynon, Ilocano, andTausug have been made.
As can be noticed fromthis information alone, NLP research on Philip-pine languages is still at its infancy stage.One of the first published works on NLP re-search on Filipino was done by Roxas (1997) onIsaWika!, a machine translation system involvingthe Filipino language.
From then on most of theNLP researches have been conducted at theCenter for Language Technologies of the Collegeof Computer Studies, De La Salle University,Manila, Philippines, in collaboration with ourpartners in academe from all over the country.The scope of experiments have expanded fromnorth of the country to south, from text to speechto video forms, and from present to past data.NLP researches address the manual construc-tion of language resources literally built fromalmost non-existent digital forms, such as thegrammar, lexicon, and corpora, augmented bysome automatic extraction algorithms.
Variouslanguage tools and applications such as machinetranslation, information extraction, informationretrieval, and natural language database interface,were also pursued.
We will discuss these here,the corresponding problems associated with thedevelopment of these projects, and the solutionsprovided.
Future research plans will also be pre-sented.2 Language ResourcesWe report here our attempts in the manual con-struction of Philippine language resources suchas the lexicon, morphological information, gram-mar, and the corpora which were literally builtfrom almost non-existent digital forms.
Due tothe inherent difficulties of manual construction,we also discuss our experiments on various tech-nologies for automatic extraction of these re-sources to handle the intricacies of the Filipinolanguage, designed with the intention of usingthem for various language technology applica-tions.We are currently using the English-Filipinolexicon that contains 23,520 English and 20,540Filipino word senses with information on the partof speech and co-occurring words through sam-ple sentences.
This lexicon is based on the dic-tionary of the Commission on the Filipino Lan-guage (Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino), and digi-tized by the IsaWika project (Roxas, 1997).
Ad-ditional information such as synsetID fromPrinceton WordNet were integrated into the lexi-con through the AeFLEX project (Lim, et al,2007b).
As manually populating the databasewith the synsetIDs from WordNet is tedious,automating the process through the SUMO (Sug-gested Upper Merged Ontology) as an InterLin-gua is being explored to come up with the Fili-pino WordNet (Tan and Lim, 2007).Initial work on the manual collection of docu-ments on Philippine languages has been donethrough the funding from the National Commis-sion for Culture and the Arts considering fourmajor Philippine Languages namely, Tagalog,Cebuano, Ilocano and Hiligaynon with 250,000words each and the Filipino sign language with7,000 signs (Roxas, et al, 2009).
Computationalfeatures include word frequency counts and aconcordancer that allows viewing co-occurringwords in the corpus.
Mark-up conventions fol-lowed some of those used for the ICE project.Aside from possibilities of connecting thePhilippine islands and regions through language,132crossing the boundaries of time are one of thegoals (Roxas, 2007a; Roxas, 2007b).
An unex-plored but equally challenging area is the collec-tion of historical documents that will allow re-search on the development of the Philippine lan-guages through the centuries, one of which is thealready mentioned Doctrina Christiana whichwas published in 1593.Attempts are being made to expand on theselanguage resources and to complement manualefforts to build these resources.
Automatic meth-ods and social networking are the two main op-tions currently being considered.2.1 Language Resource BuilderAutomatic methods for bilingual lexicon ex-traction, named-entity extraction, and languagecorpora are also being explored to exploit on theresources available on the internet.
These auto-matic methods are discussed in detail in this sec-tion.An automated approach of extracting bilinguallexicon from comparable, non-parallel corporawas developed for English as the source lan-guage and Tagalog as the target language (Tiuand Roxas, 2008).
The study combined ap-proaches from previous researches which onlyconcentrated on context extraction, clusteringtechniques, or usage of part of speech tags fordefining the different senses of a word, and rank-ing has shown improvement to overall F-measurefrom 7.32% to 10.65% within the range of valuesfrom previous studies.
This is despite the use oflimited amount of corpora of 400k and seed lexi-con of 9,026 entries in contrast to previous stud-ies of 39M and 16,380, respectively.The NER-Fil is a Named Entity Recognizerfor Filipino Text (Lim, et al, 2007a).
This sys-tem automatically identifies and stores named-entities from documents, which can also be usedto annotate corpora with named-entity informa-tion.
Using machine learning techniques, namedentities are also automatically classified into ap-propriate categories such as person, place, andorganization.AutoCor is an automatic retrieval system fordocuments written in closely-related languages(Dimalen and Roxas, 2007).
Experiments havebeen conducted on four closely-related Philip-pine languages, namely: Tagalog, Cebuano andBicolano.
Input documents are matched againstthe n-gram language models of relevant and ir-relevant documents.
Using common word prun-ing to differentiate between the closely-relatedPhilippine languages, and the odds ratio querygeneration methods, results show improvementsin the precision of the system.Although automatic methods can facilitate thebuilding of the language resources needed forprocessing natural languages, these automaticmethods usually employ learning approaches thatwould require existing language resources asseed or learning data sets.2.2 Online Community for Corpora Build-ingPALITO is an online repository of the Philippinecorpus (Roxas, et al, 2009).
It is intended toallow linguists or language researchers to uploadtext documents written in any Philippine lan-guage, and would eventually function as corporafor Philippine language documentation and re-search.
Automatic tools for data categorizationand corpus annotation are provided by the sys-tem.
The LASCOPHIL (La Salle Corpus of Phil-ippine Languages) Working Group is assistingthe project developers of PALITO in refining themechanics for the levels of users and their corre-sponding privileges for a manageable monitoringof the corpora.
Videos on the Filipino sign lan-guage can also be uploaded into the system.
Up-loading of speech recordings will be consideredin the near future, to address the need to employthe best technology to document and systemati-cally collect speech recordings especially ofnearly extinct languages in the country.
Thisonline system capitalizes on the opportunity forthe corpora to expand faster and wider with theinvolvement of more people from various partsof the world.
This is also to exploit on the realitythat many of the Filipinos here and abroad arenative speakers of their own local languages ordialects and can largely contribute to the growthof the corpora on Philippine languages.3 Language ToolsLanguage tools are applications that support lin-guistic research and processing of various lan-guage computational layers.
These include lexi-cal units, to syntax and semantics.
Specifically,we have worked on the morphological processes,part of speech tagging and parsing.
These proc-esses usually employ either the rule-based ap-proach or the example-based approach.
In gen-eral, rule-based approaches capture languageprocesses by formally capturing these processeswhich would require consultations and inputsfrom linguists.
On the other hand, example-based approaches employ machine learning133methodologies where automatic learning of rulesis performed based on manually annotated datathat are done also by linguists.3.1 Morphological ProcessesWe have tested both rule-based and example-based approaches in developing our morphologi-cal analyzers and generators.
Rule-based mor-phological analysis in the current methods, suchas finite-state and unification-based, are pre-dominantly effective for handling concatenativemorphology (e.g.
prefixation and suffixation),although some of these techniques can also han-dle limited non-concatenative phenomena (e.g.infixation and partial and full-stem reduplication)which are largely used in Philippine languages.TagMA (Fortes-Galvan and Roxas, 2007) uses aconstraint-based method to perform morphologi-cal analysis that handles both concatenative andnon-concatenative morphological phenomena,based on the optimality theory framework andthe two-level morphology rule representation.Test results showed 96% accuracy.
The 4% erroris attributed to d-r alteration, an example ofwhich is in the word lakaran, which is from theroot word lakad and suffix -an, but d is changedto r.  Unfortunately, since all candidates are gen-erated, and erroneous ones are later eliminatedthrough constraints and rules, time efficiency isaffected by the exhaustive search performed.To augment the rule-based approach, an ex-ample-based approach was explored by extend-ing Wicentowski?s Word Frame model throughlearning of morphology rules from examples(Cheng and See, 2006).
In the WordFramemodel, the seven-way split re-write rules com-posed of the canonical prefix/beginning, point-of-prefixation, common prefix substrings, inter-nal vowel change, common suffix substring,point-of-suffixation, and canonical suffix/ending.Infixation, partial and full reduplication as inTagalog and other Philippine languages are im-properly modeled in the WordFrame model aspoint-of-prefixation as in the word (hin)-intaywhich should have been modeled as the wordhintay with infix ?in-.
Words with an infix withina prefix are also modeled as point-of-prefixationas in the word (hini-)hintay which should be rep-resented as infix ?in in partial reduplicated sylla-ble hi-.
In the revised WordFrame model(Cheng and See, 2006), the non-concatenativeTagalog morphological behaviors such as infixa-tion and reduplication are modeled separatelyand correctly.
Unfortunately, it is still not capa-ble of fully modeling Filipino morphology sincesome occurrences of reduplication are still repre-sented as point-of-suffixation for various loca-tions of the longest common substring.
There arealso some problems in handling the occurrenceof several partial or whole-word reduplicationswithin a word.
Despite these problems, the train-ing of the algorithm that learns these re-writerules from 40,276 Filipino word pairs derived90% accuracy when applied to an MA.
Thecomplexity of creating a better model would becomputationally costly but it would ensure anincrease in performance and reduced number ofrules.Work is still to be done on exploring tech-niques and methodologies for morphologicalgeneration (MG).
Although it could be inferredthat the approaches for MA can be extended tohandle MG, an additional disambiguation proc-ess is necessary to choose the appropriate outputfrom the many various surface form of wordsthat can be generated from one underlying form.3.2 Part of Speech TaggingOne of the most useful information in the lan-guage corpora are the part of speech tags that areassociated with each word in the corpora.
Thesetags allow applications to perform other syntacticand semantic processes.
Firstly, with the aid oflinguists, a revised tagset for Tagalog has beenformulated (Miguel and Roxas, 2007), since aclose examination of the existing tagset for lan-guages such as English showed the insufficiencyof this tagset to handle certain phenomena inPhilippine languages such as the lexical markers,ligatures and enclitics.
The lexical marker ay isused in inverted sentences such as She is good(Siya ay mabuti).
Ligatures can take the form ofthe word na or suffixes ?ng (-g), the former isused if the previous noun, pronoun or adjectiveends with a consonant (except for n), and the lat-ter if the previous word ends with a vowel (or n).Manual tagging of corpora has allowed theperformance of automatic experiments on someapproaches for tagging for Philippine languagesnamely MBPOST, PTPOST4.1, TPOST andTagAlog, each one exploring on a particular ap-proach in tagging such as memory-based POS,template-based and rule-based approaches.
Astudy on the performance of these taggersshowed accuracies of 85, 73, 65 and 61%, re-spectively (Miguel and Roxas, 2007).3.3 Language GrammarsGrammar checkers are some of the applicationswhere syntactic specification of languages is134necessary.
SpellCheF is a spell checker for Fili-pino that uses a hybrid approach in detecting andcorrecting misspelled words in a document(Cheng, et al, 2007).
Its approach is composedof dictionary-lookup, n-gram analysis, Soundexand character distance measurements.
It is im-plemented as a plug-in to OpenOffice Writer.Two spelling rules and guidelines, namely, theKomisyon sa Wikang Filipino 2001 Revision ofthe Alphabet and Guidelines in Spelling the Fili-pino Language, and the Gabay sa Editing sa Wi-kang Filipino rulebooks, were incorporated intothe system.
SpellCheF consists of the lexiconbuilder, the detector, and the corrector; all ofwhich utilized both manually formulated andautomatically learned rules to carry out their re-spective tasks.FiSSAn, on the other hand, is a semantics-based grammar checker.
Lastly, PanPam (Jasa,et al, 2007) is an extension of FiSSAn that alsoincorporates a dictionary-based spell checker(Borra, et al, 2007).These systems make use of the rule-based ap-proach.
To complement these systems, an exam-ple-based approach is considered through agrammar rule induction method (Alcantara andBorra, 2008).
Constituent structures are auto-matically induced using unsupervised probabilis-tic approaches.
Two models are presented andresults on the Filipino language show an F1measure of greater than 69%.
Experiments re-vealed that the Filipino language does not followa strict binary structure as English, but is moreright-biased.A similar experiment has been conducted ongrammar rule induction for the automatic parsingof the Philippine component of the InternationalCorpus of English (ICE-PHI) (Flores and Roxas,2008).
The ICE-PHI corpora consist of Englishtexts with indigenous words and phrases duringspeaker context switching.
The markup languagefollowed the standards specified by the ICEgroup, which is headed by ICE-GB.
Constituentrule induction is performed from manually en-coded syntactically bracketed files from the ICE-PHI, and will be used to parse the rest of the cor-pus.
Manual post editing of the parse will beperformed.
The development of such tools willdirectly benefit the descriptive and applied lin-guistics of Philippine English, as well as otherEnglishes, in particular, those language compo-nents in the ICE.Various applications on Philippine languageshave been created at the Center for LanguageTechnologies, College of Computer Studies, DeLa Salle University to cater to different needs.4 Language Applications4.1 Machine TranslationThe Hybrid English-Filipino Machine Transla-tion (MT) System is a three-year project (withfunding from the PCASTRD, DOST), which in-volves a multi-engine approach for automaticlanguage translation of English and FilipinoRoxas, et al, 2008).
The MT engines explore onapproaches in translation using a rule-basedmethod and two example-based methods.
Therule-based approach requires the formal specifi-cation of the human languages covered in thestudy and utilizes these rules to translate the in-put.
The two other MT engines make use of ex-amples to determine the translation.
The exam-ple-based MT engines have different approachesin their use of the examples (which are existingEnglish and Filipino documents), as well as thedata that they are learning.The system accepts as input a sentence or adocument in the source language and translatesthis into the target language.
If source languageis English, the target language is Filipino, andvise versa.
The input text will undergo preproc-essing that will include POS tagging and mor-phological analysis.
After translation, the outputtranslation will undergo natural language genera-tion including morphological generation.
Sinceeach of the MT engines would not necessarilyhave the same output translation, an additionalcomponent called the Output Modeler was cre-ated to determine the most appropriate among thetranslation outputs (Go and See, 2008).
Thereare ongoing experiments on the hybridization ofthe rule-based and the template-based approacheswhere transfer rules and unification constraintsare derived (Fontanilla and Roxas, 2008).The rule-based MT builds a database of rulesfor language representation and translation rulesfrom linguists and other experts on translationfrom English to Filipino and from Filipino toEnglish.
We have considered lexical functionalgrammar (LFG) as the formalism to capture theserules.
Given a sentence in the source language,the sentence is processed and a computerizedrepresentation in LFG of this sentence is con-structed.
An evaluation of how comprehensiveand exhaustive the identified grammar is will beconsidered.
Is the system able to capture all pos-sible Filipino sentences?
How are all possiblesentences to be represented since Filipino exhib-135its some form of free word order in sentences?The next step is the translation step, that is, theconversion of the computerized representation ofthe input sentence into the intended target lan-guage.
After the translation process, the comput-erized representation of the sentence in the targetlanguage will now be outputted into a sentenceform, or called the generation process.
Althoughit has been shown in various studies elsewhereand on various languages that LFG can be usedfor analysis of sentences, there is still a questionof whether it can be used for the generation proc-ess.
The generation involves the outputting of asentence from a computer-based representationof the sentence.
This is part of the work that thegroup intends to address.The major advantage of the rule-based MTover other approaches is that it can produce highquality translation for sentence patterns that wereaccurately captured by the rules of the MT en-gine; but unfortunately, it cannot provide goodtranslations to any sentence that go beyond whatthe rules have considered.In contrast to the rule-based MT which re-quires building the rules by hand, the corpus-based MT system automatically learns howtranslation is done through examples found in acorpus of translated documents.
The system canincrementally learn when new translated docu-ments are added into the knowledge-base, thus,any changes to the language can also be accom-modated through the updates on the exampletranslations.
This means it can handle translationof documents from various domains (Alcantara,et al, 2006).The principle of garbage-in-garbage-out ap-plies here; if the example translations are faulty,the learned rules will also be faulty.
That is why,although human linguists do not have to specifyand come up with the translation rules, the lin-guist will have to first verify the translateddocuments and consequently, the learned rules,for accuracy.It is not only the quality of the collection oftranslations that affects the overall performanceof the system, but also the quantity.
The collec-tion of translations has to be comprehensive sothat the translation system produced will be ableto translate as much types of sentences as possi-ble.
The challenge here is coming up with aquantity of examples that is sufficient for accu-rate translation of documents.With more data, a new problem arises whenthe knowledge-base grows so large that access toit and search for applicable rules during transla-tion requires tremendous amount of access timeand to an extreme, becomes difficult.
Exponen-tial growth of the knowledge-base may also hap-pen due to the free word order nature of Filipinosentence construction, such that one English sen-tence can be translated to several Filipino sen-tences.
When all these combinations are part ofthe translation examples, a translation rule willbe learned and extracted by the system for eachcombination, thus, causing growth of the knowl-edge-base.
Thus, algorithms that perform gener-alization of rules are considered to remove speci-ficity of translation rules extracted and thus, re-duce the size of the rule knowledge-base.One of the main problems in language proc-essing most especially compounded in machinetranslation is finding the most appropriate trans-lation of a word when there are several meaningsof source words, and various target word equiva-lents depending on the context of the sourceword.
One particular study that focuses on theuse of syntactic relationships to perform wordsense disambiguation has been explored (Do-mingo and Roxas, 2006).
It uses an automatedapproach for resolving target-word selection,based on ?word-to-sense?
and ?sense-to-word?relationship between source words and theirtranslations, using syntactic relationships (sub-ject-verb, verb-object, adjective-noun).
Usinginformation from a bilingual dictionary and wordsimilarity measures from WordNet, a target wordis selected using statistics from a target languagecorpus.
Test results using English to Tagalogtranslations showed an overall 64% accuracy forselecting word translation.Other attempts on MT are on Tagalog to Ce-buano (Yara, 2007), and Ilocano to English (Mi-guel and Dy, 2008).
Both researches focus onbuilding the language resources for the languagesCebuano and Ilocano, respectively, since focuson the Philippine languages have so far been onTagalog.
It is also important to note that thesecontributions are local researches being donewhere the languages are actually spoken and ac-tively in usage.4.2 Sign Language ProcessingMost of the work that we have done focused ontextual information.
Recently, we have exploredon video and speech forms.With the inclusion of the Filipino sign lan-guage in a corpora building project (Roxas, et al,2009), video formats are used to record, edit,gloss and transcribe signs and discourse.
Videoediting merely cuts the video for final rendering,136glossing allows association of sign to particularwords, and transcription allows viewing of tex-tual equivalents of the signed videos.Work on the automatic recognition of Filipinosign language involves digital signal processingconcepts.
Initial work has been done on signlanguage number recognition (Sandjaja, 2008)using color-coded gloves for feature extraction.The feature vectors were calculated based on theposition of the dominant-hand?s thumb.
The sys-tem learned through a database of numbers from1 to 1000, and tested by the automatic recogni-tion of Filipino sign language numbers and con-version into text.
Over-all accuracy of numberrecognition is 85%.Another proposed work is the recognition ofnon-manual signals focusing on the various partsof the face; in particular, initially, the mouth is tobe considered.
The automatic interpretation ofthe signs can be disambiguated using the inter-pretation of the non-manual signals.4.3 Speech SystemsPinoyTalk is an initial study on a Filipino-based text to speech system that automaticallygenerates the speech from input text (Casas, etal., 2004).
The input text is processed andparsed from words to syllables, from syllables toletters, and assigned prosodic properties for eachone.
Six rules for Filipino syllabication wereidentified and used in the system.
A rule-basedmodel for Filipino was developed and used asbasis for the implementation of the system.
Thefollowing were determined in the study consider-ing the Filipino speaker: duration of each pho-neme and silences, intonation, pitches of conso-nants and vowel, and pitches of words with thecorresponding stress.
The system generates anaudio output and able to save the generated fileusing the mp3 or wav file format.A system has been developed at the DigitalSignal Processing Laboratory at the University ofthe Philippines at Diliman to automatically rec-ognize emotions such as anger, boredom, happi-ness and satisfaction (Ebarvia, et al, 2008).5 Future DirectionsThrough the Center for Language Technologiesof the College of Computer Studies, De la SalleUniversity, and our partners, varied NLP re-sources have been built, and applications andresearches explored.
Our faculty members andour students have provided the expertise in thesechallenging endeavors, with multi-disciplinaryefforts and collaborations.
Through our graduateprograms, we have trained many of the facultymembers of universities from various parts of thecountry; thus, providing a network of NLP re-searchers throughout the archipelago.
We haveorganized the National NLP Research Sympo-sium for the past five years, through the effortsof the CeLT of CCS-DLSU, and through thesupport of government agencies such asPCASTRD, DOST and CHED, and our industrypartners.
Last year, we hosted an internationalconference (the 22nd Pacific Asia Conference onLanguage, Information and Computation) whichwas held in Cebu City in partnership withUPVCC and Cebu Institute of Technology.
Wehave made a commitment to nurture andstrengthen NLP researches and collaboration inthe country, and expand on our internationallinkages with key movers in both the Asian re-gion and elsewhere.
For the past five years, wehave brought in and invited internationally-acclaimed NLP researchers into the country tosupport these endeavors.
Recently, we have alsoreceived invitations as visiting scholars, and par-ticipants to events and meetings within the Aseanregion which provided scholarships, which inturn, we also share with our colleagues and re-searchers in other Philippine universities.It is an understatement to say that much has tobe explored in this area of research that inter-leaves diverse disciplines among technology-based areas (such as NLP, digital signal process-ing, multi-media applications, and machinelearning) and other fields of study (such as lan-guage, history, psychology, and education), andcuts across different regions and countries, andeven time frames (Cheng, et al, 2008).
It ismulti-modal and considers various forms of datafrom textual, audio, video and other forms ofinformation.
Thus, much is yet to be accom-plished, and experts with diverse backgrounds inthese various related fields will bring this area ofresearch to a new and better dimension.ReferencesD.
Alcantara and A. Borra.
2008.
Constituent Struc-ture for Filipino: Induction through ProbabilisticApproaches.
Proceedings of the 22nd Pacific AsiaConference on Language, Information and Compu-tation (PACLIC).
113-122.D.
Alcantara, B. Hong, A. Perez and L. Tan.
2006.Rule Extraction Applied in Language Translation ?R.E.A.L.
Translation.
Undergraduate Thesis, De laSalle University, Manila.137A.
Borra, M. Ang, P. J. Chan, S. Cagalingan and R.Tan.
2007.
FiSSan: Filipino Sentence Syntax andSemantic Analyzer.
Proceedings of the 7th Philip-pine Computing Science Congress.
74-78.D.
Casas, S. Rivera, G. Tan, and G. Villamil.
2004.PinoyTalk: A Filipino Based Text-to-Speech Syn-thesizer.
Undergraduate Thesis.
De La Salle Uni-versity.C.
Cheng, R. Roxas, A.
B. Borra, N. R. L. Lim, E. C.Ong and S. L. See.
2008. e-Wika: Digitalization ofPhilippine Language.
DLSU-Osaka Workshop.C.
Cheng, C. P. Alberto, I.
A. Chan and V. J. Querol.2007.
SpellChef: Spelling Checker and Correctorfor Filipino.
Journal of Research in Science, Com-puting and Engineering.
4(3), 75-82.C.
Cheng, and S. See.
2006.
The Revised WordframeModel for Filipino Language.
Journal of Researchin Science, Computing and Engineering.
3(2), 17-23.D.
Dimalen and R. Roxas.
2007.
AutoCor: A Query-Based Automatic Acquisition of Corpora of Closely-Related Languages.
Proceedings of the 21st PA-CLIC.
146-154.E.
Domingo and R. Roxas.
2006.
Utilizing Clues inSyntactic Relationships for Automatic Target WordSense Disambiguation.
Journal of Research forScience, Computing and Engineering.
3(3), 18-24.E.
Ebarvia, M. Bayona, F. de Leon, M. Lopez, R.Guevara, B. Calingacion, and P. Naval, Jr. 2008.Determination of Prosodic Feature Set for Emo-tion Recognition in Call Center Speech.
Proceed-ings of the 5th National Natural Language Proc-essing Research Symposium (NNLPRS).
65-71.D.
Flores and R. Roxas.
2008.
Automatic Tools forthe Analysis of the Philippine component of the In-ternational Corpus of English.
Linguistic Society ofthe Philippines Annual Meeting and Convention.G.
Fontanilla and R. Roxas.
2008.
A Hybrid Filipino-English Machine Translation System.
DLSU Sci-ence and Technology Congress.F.
Fortes-Galvan and R. Roxas.
2007.
MorphologicalAnalysis for Concatenative and Non-concatenativePhenomena.
Proceedings of the Asian AppliedNLP Conference.K.
Go and S. See.
2008.
Incorporation of WordNetFeatures to N-Gram Features in a Language Mod-eller.
Proceedings of the 22nd PACLIC, 179-188.Gordon, R. G., Jr.
(Ed.).
2005.
Ethnologue: Lan-guages of the World, 5th Ed.
Dallas,Texas: SIL In-ternational.
Online version: www.ethnologue.com.M.
Jasa, M. J. Palisoc and J. M. Villa.
2007.
PanuringPanitikan (PanPam): A Sentence Syntax and Se-mantics-based Grammar Checker for Filipino.Undergraduate Thesis.
De La Salle University,Manila.H.
Liao.
2006.
Philippine linguistics: The state of theart (1981-2005).
De La Salle University, Manila.N.
R. Lim, J. C. New, M. A. Ngo, M. Sy, and N. R.Lim.
2007a.
A Named-Entity Recognizer for Fili-pino Texts.
Proceedings of the 4th NNLPRS.N.
R. Lim, J. O. Lat, S. T. Ng, K. Sze, and G. D. Yu.2007b.
Lexicon for an English-Filipino MachineTranslation System.
Proceedings of the 4th Na-tional Natural Language Processing ResearchSymposium.D.
Miguel and M. Dy.
2008.
Anglo-Cano: an Ilocanoto English Machine Translation.
Proceedings ofthe 5th National Natural Language Processing Re-search Symposium.
85-88.D.
Miguel and R. Roxas.
2007.
Comparative Evalua-tion of Tagalog Part of Speech Taggers.
Proceed-ings of the 4th NNLPRS.R.
Roxas, P. Inventado, G. Asenjo, M. Corpus, S.Dita, R. Sison-Buban and D. Taylan.
2009.
OnlineCorpora of Philippine Languages.
2nd DLSU ArtsCongress: Arts and Environment.R.
Roxas, A. Borra, C. Ko, N. R. Lim, E. Ong, and M.W.
Tan.
2008.
Building Language Resources for aMulti-Engine Machine Translation System.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.
Springer, Neth-erlands.
42:183-195.R.
Roxas.
2007a.
e-Wika: Philippine Connectivitythrough Languages.
Proceedings of the 4thNNLPRS.R.
Roxas.
2007b.
Towards Building the PhilippineCorpus.
Consultative Workshop on Building thePhilippine Corpus.R.
Roxas.
1997.
Machine Translation from English toFilipino: A Prototype.
International Symposium ofMulti-lingual Information Technology (MLIT ?97),Singapore.I.
Sandjaja.
2008.
Sign Language Number Recogni-tion.
Graduate Thesis.
De La Salle University,Manila.P.
Tan and N. R. Lim.
2007.
FILWORDNET: To-wards a Filipino WordNet.
Proceedings of the 4thNNLPRS.E.
P. Tiu and R. Roxas.
2008.
Automatic BilingualLexicon Extraction for a Minority Target Lan-guage, Proceedings of the 22nd PACLIC.
368-376.J.
Yara.
2007.
A Tagalog-to-Cebuano Affix-Transfer-Based Machine Translator.
Proceedings of the 4thNNLPRS.138
