Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 126?129,Athens, Greece, 30 ?
31 March 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Situated Context Model forResolution and Generation of Referring ExpressionsHendrik Zender and Geert-Jan M. Kruijff and Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?Language Technology Lab, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI)Saarbru?cken, Germany{zender, gj, ivana.kruijff}@dfki.deAbstractThe background for this paper is the aimto build robotic assistants that can ?natu-rally?
interact with humans.
One prereq-uisite for this is that the robot can cor-rectly identify objects or places a userrefers to, and produce comprehensible ref-erences itself.
As robots typically actin environments that are larger than whatis immediately perceivable, the problemarises how to identify the appropriate con-text, against which to resolve or producea referring expression (RE).
Existing al-gorithms for generating REs generally by-pass this problem by assuming a givencontext.
In this paper, we explicitly ad-dress this problem, proposing a method forcontext determination in large-scale space.We show how it can be applied both for re-solving and producing REs.1 IntroductionThe past years have seen an extraordinary increasein research on robotic assistants that help usersperform daily chores.
Autonomous vacuum clean-ers have already found their way into people?shomes, but it will still take a while before fullyconversational robot ?gophers?
will assist peoplein more demanding everyday tasks.
Imagine arobot that can deliver objects, and give directionsto visitors on a university campus.
This robot mustbe able to verbalize its knowledge in a way that isunderstandable by humans.A conversational robot will inevitably face sit-uations in which it needs to refer to an entity (anobject, a locality, or even an event) that is locatedsomewhere outside the current scene, as Figure 1illustrates.
There are conceivably many ways inwhich a robot might refer to things in the world,but many such expressions are unsuitable in mostWhere is theIT Help desk?It is on the1st floor inbuilding 3b.it is at<45.56, -3.92, 10.45>Where i  theIT hel  desk?It is on the 1stfloor in building3B.It is atFigure 1: Situated dialogue with a service robothuman-robot dialogues.
Consider the followingset of examples:1.
?position P = ?45.56,?3.92, 10.45??2.
?Peter?s office no.
200 at the end of the cor-ridor on the third floor of the Acme Corp.building 3 in the Acme Corp. complex, 47Evergreen Terrace, Calisota, Earth, (...)?3.
?the area?These REs are valid descriptions of their respec-tive referents.
Still they fail to achieve their com-municative goal, which is to specify the rightamount of information that the hearer needs touniquely identify the referent.
The next REs mightserve as more appropriate variants of the previousexamples (in certain contexts!
):1.
?the IT help desk?2.
?Peter?s office?3.
?the large hall on the first floor?The first example highlights a requirement on theknowledge representation to which an algorithmfor generating referring expressions (GRE) has ac-cess.
Although the robot needs a robot-centric rep-resentation of its surrounding space that allows itto safely perform actions and navigate its world,it should use human-centric qualitative descrip-tions when talking about things in the world.
We126do not address this issue here, but refer the inter-ested reader to our recent work on multi-layeredspatial maps for robots, bridging the gap betweenrobot-centric and human-centric spatial represen-tations (Zender et al, 2008).The other examples point out another impor-tant consideration: howmuch information does thehuman need to single out the intended referentamong the possible entities that the robot could bereferring to?
According to the seminal work onGRE by Dale and Reiter (1995), one needs to dis-tinguish whether the intended referent is alreadyin the hearer?s focus of attention or not.
This focusof attention can consist of a local visual scene (vi-sual context) or a shared workspace (spatial con-text), but also contains recently mentioned entities(dialogue context).
If the referent is already partof the current context, the GRE task merely con-sists of singling it out among the other membersof the context, which act as distractors.
In thiscase the generated RE contains discriminatory in-formation, e.g.
?the red ball?
if several kinds of ob-jects with different colors are in the context.
If, onthe other hand, the referent is not in the hearer?s fo-cus of attention, an RE needs to contain what Daleand Reiter call navigational, or attention-directinginformation.
The example they give is ?the blackpower supply in the equipment rack,?
where ?theequipment rack?
is supposed to direct the hearersattention to the rack and its contents.In the following we propose an approach forcontext determination and extension that allows amobile robot to produce and interpret REs to enti-ties outside the current visual context.2 BackgroundMost GRE approaches are applied to very lim-ited, visual scenes ?
so-called small-scale space.The domain of such systems is usually a small vi-sual scene, e.g.
a number of objects, such as cupsand tables, located in the same room), or otherclosed-context scenarios (Dale and Reiter, 1995;Horacek, 1997; Krahmer and Theune, 2002).
Re-cently, Kelleher and Kruijff (2006) have presentedan incremental GRE algorithm for situated di-alogue with a robot about a table-top setting,i.e.
also about small-scale space.
In all these cases,the context set is assumed to be identical to thevisual scene that is shared between the interlocu-tors.
The intended referent is thus already in thehearer?s focus of attention.In contrast, robots typically act in large-scalespace, i.e.
space ?larger than what can be per-ceived at once?
(Kuipers, 1977).
They need theability to understand and produce references tothings that are beyond the current visual and spa-tial context.
In any situated dialogue that involvesentities beyond the current focus of attention, thetask of extending the context becomes key.Paraboni et al (2007) present an algorithm forcontext determination in hierarchically ordereddomains, e.g.
a university campus or a documentstructure.
Their approach is mainly targeted atproducing textual references to entities in writtendocuments (e.g.
figures, tables in book chapters).Consequently they do not address the challengesthat arise in physically and perceptually situateddialogues.
Still, the approach presents a num-ber of good contributions towards GRE for situ-ated dialogue in large-scale space.
An appropriatecontext, as a subset of the full domain, is deter-mined through Ancestral Search.
This search forthe intended referent is rooted in the ?position ofthe speaker and the hearer in the domain?
(repre-sented as d), a crucial first step towards situated-ness.
Their approach suffers from the shortcom-ing that spatial relationships are treated as one-place attributes by their GRE algorithm.
For ex-ample they transform the spatial containment re-lation that holds between a room entity and abuilding entity (?the library in the Cockroft build-ing?)
into a property of the room entity (BUILDINGNAME = COCKROFT) and not a two-place relation(in(library,Cockroft)).
Thus they avoidrecursive calls to the algorithm, which would beneeded if the intended referent is related to anotherentity that needs to be properly referred to.However, according to Dale and Reiter (1995),these related entities do not necessarily serve asdiscriminatory information.
At least in large-scalespace, in contrast to a document structure that isconceivably transparent to a reader, they functionas attention-directing elements that are introducedto build up common ground by incrementally ex-tending the hearer?s focus of attention.
Moreover,representing some spatial relations as two-placepredicates between two entities and some as one-place predicates is an arbitrary decision.We present an approach for context determina-tion (or extension), that imposes less restrictionson its knowledge base, and which can be used as asub-routine in existing GRE algorithms.1273 Situated Dialogue in Large-Scale SpaceImagine the situation in Figure 1 did not take placesomewhere on campus, but rather inside building3B.
Certainly the robot would not have said ?theIT help desk is on the 1st floor in building 3B.
?To avoid confusing the human, an utterance like?the IT help desk is on the 1st floor?
would havebeen appropriate.
Likewise, if the IT help deskhappened to be located on another site of the uni-versity, the robot would have had to identify its lo-cation as being ?on the 1st floor in building 3B onthe new campus.?
The hierarchical representationof space that people are known to assume (Cohnand Hazarika, 2001), reflects upon the choice ofan appropriate context when producing REs.In the above example the physical and spatialsituatedness of the dialogue participants play animportant role in determining which related partsof space come into consideration as potential dis-tractors.
Another important observation concernsthe verbal behavior of humans when talking aboutremote objects and places during a complex dia-logue (i.e.
more than just a question and a reply).Consider the following example dialogue:Person A: ?Where is the exit?
?Person B: ?You first go down this corridor.Then you turn right.
After a few steps youwill see the big glass doors.
?Person A: ?And the bus station?
Is it to theleft?
?The dialogue illustrates how utterances becomegrounded in previously introduced discourse ref-erents, both temporally and spatially.
Initially,the physical surroundings of the dialogue partnersform the context for anchoring references.
As a di-alogue unfolds, this point can conceptually moveto other locations that have been explicitly intro-duced.
Discourse markers denoting spatial or tem-poral cohesion (e.g.
?then?
or ?there?)
can makethis move to a new anchor explicit, leading to a?mental tour?
through large-scale space.We propose a general principle of TopologicalAbstraction (TA) for context extension which isrooted in what we will call the Referential Anchora.1 TA is designed for a multiple abstraction hier-archy (e.g.
represented as a lattice structure ratherthan a simple tree).
The Referential Anchor a, cor-responding to the current focus of attention, formsthe nucleus of the context.
In the simple case, a1similar to Ancestral Search (Paraboni et al, 2007)loc1 loc2 loc3room1 room2floor1_1 floor1_2building1loc4 (a) loc5 loc7 loc8loc6room3 room4 room5 (r)floor2_1 floor2_2building21234Figure 2: Incremental TA in large-scale spacecorresponds to the hearer?s physical location.
Asillustrated above, a can also move along the ?spa-tial progression?
of the most salient discourse en-tity during a dialogue.
If the intended referent isoutside the current context, TA extends the contextby incrementally ascending the spatial abstractionhierarchy until the intended referent is an elementof the resulting sub-hierarchy, as illustrated in Fig-ure 2.
Below we describe two instantiations of theTA principle, a TA algorithm for reference gener-ation (TAA1) and TAA2 for reference resolution.Context Determination for GRE TAA1 con-structs a set of entities dominated by the Referen-tial Anchor a (and a itself).
If this set contains theintended referent r, it is taken as the current utter-ance context set.
Else TAA1 moves up one levelof abstraction and adds the set of all child nodes tothe context set.
This loop continues until r is in thecontext set.
At that point TAA1 stops and returnsthe constructed context set (cf.
Algorithm 1).TAA1 is formulated to be neutral to the kind ofGRE algorithm that it is used for.
It can be usedwith the original Incremental Algorithm (Dale andReiter, 1995), augmented by a recursive call if arelation to another entity is selected as a discrim-inatory feature.
It could in principle also be usedwith the standard approach to GRE involving re-lations (Dale and Haddock, 1991), but we agreewith Paraboni et al (2007) that the mutually qual-ified references that it can produce2 are not easilyresolvable if they pertain to circumstances wherea confirmatory search is costly (such as in large-scale space).
More recent approaches to avoid-ing infinite loops when using relations in GREmake use of a graph-based knowledge represen-tation (Krahmer et al, 2003; Croitoru and vanDeemter, 2007).
TAA1 is compatible with theseapproaches, as well as with the salience based ap-proach of (Krahmer and Theune, 2002).2An example for such a phenomenon is the expression?the ball on the table?
in a context with several tables andseveral balls, but of which only one is on a table.
Humansfind such REs natural and easy to resolve in visual scenes.128Algorithm 1 TAA1 (for reference generation)Require: a = referential anchor; r = intended referentInitialize context: C = {}C = C ?
topologicalChildren(a) ?
{a}if r ?
C thenreturn CelseInitialize: SUPERNODES = {a}for each n ?
SUPERNODES dofor each p ?
topologicalParents(n) doSUPERNODES = SUPERNODES ?
{p}C = C ?
topologicalChildren(p)end forif r ?
C thenreturn Cend ifend forreturn failureend ifAlgorithm 2 TAA2 (for reference resolution)Require: a = ref.
anchor; desc(x) = description of referentInitialize context: C = {}Initialize possible referents: R = {}C = C ?
topologicalChildren(a) ?
{a}R = desc(x) ?
Cif R 6= {} thenreturn RelseInitialize: SUPERNODES = {a}for each n ?
SUPERNODES dofor each p ?
topologicalParents(n) doSUPERNODES = SUPERNODES ?
{p}C = C ?
topologicalChildren(p)end forR = desc(x) ?
Cif R 6= {} thenreturn Rend ifend forreturn failureend ifResolving References to Elsewhere Analogousto the GRE task, a conversational robot must beable to understand verbal descriptions by its users.In order to avoid overgenerating possible refer-ents, we propose TAA2 (cf.
Algorithm 2) whichtries to select an appropriate referent from a rel-evant subset of the full knowledge base.
It is ini-tialized with a given semantic representation of thereferential expression, desc(x), in a format com-patible with the knowledge base.
Then, an appro-priate entity satisfying this description is searchedfor in the knowledge base.
Similarly to TAA1,the description is first matched against the currentcontext set C consisting of a and its child nodes.
Ifthis set does not contain any instances that matchdesc(x), TAA2 increases the context set alng thespatial abstraction axis until at least one possiblereferent can be identified within the context.4 Conclusions and Future WorkWe have presented two algorithms for context de-termination that can be used both for resolving andgenerating REs in large-scale space.We are currently planning a user study to evalu-ate the performance of the TA algorithms.
Anotherimportant item for future work is the exact natureof the spatial progression, modeled by ?moving?the referential anchor, in a situated dialogue.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the EU FP7 ICTProject ?CogX?
(FP7-ICT-215181).ReferencesA.
G. Cohn and S. M. Hazarika.
2001.
Qualitativespatial representation and reasoning: An overview.Fundamenta Informaticae, 46:1?29.M.
Croitoru and K. van Deemter.
2007.
A conceptualgraph approach to the generation of referring expres-sions.
In Proc.
IJCAI-2007, Hyderabad, India.R.
Dale and N. Haddock.
1991.
Generating referringexpressions involving relations.
In Proc.
of the 5thMeeting of the EACL, Berlin, Germany, April.R.
Dale and E. Reiter.
1995.
Computational interpreta-tions of the Gricean Maxims in the generation of re-ferring expressions.
Cognitive Science, 19(2):233?263.H.
Horacek.
1997.
An algorithm for generating ref-erential descriptions with flexible interfaces.
InProc.
of the 35th Annual Meeting of the ACL and8th Conf.
of the EACL, Madrid, Spain.J.
Kelleher and G.-J.
Kruijff.
2006.
Incremental gener-ation of spatial referring expressions in situated di-alogue.
In In Proc.
Coling-ACL 06, Sydney, Aus-tralia.E.
Krahmer and M. Theune.
2002.
Efficient context-sensitive generation of referring expressions.
InK.
van Deemter and R.Kibble, editors, InformationSharing: Givenness and Newness in Language Pro-cessing.
CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA, USA.E.
Krahmer, S. van Erk, and A. Verleg.
2003.
Graph-based generation of referring expressions.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 29(1).B.
Kuipers.
1977.
Representing Knowledge of Large-scale Space.
Ph.D. thesis, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Cambridge, MA, USA.I.
Paraboni, K. van Deemter, and J. Masthoff.
2007.Generating referring expressions: Making refer-ents easy to identify.
Computational Linguistics,33(2):229?254, June.H.
Zender, O.
Mart?
?nez Mozos, P. Jensfelt, G.-J.
Krui-jff, and W. Burgard.
2008.
Conceptual spatial rep-resentations for indoor mobile robots.
Robotics andAutonomous Systems, 56(6):493?502, June.129
