Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2009: the 10th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group in Discourse and Dialogue, pages 79?86,Queen Mary University of London, September 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsA: An Experimental Investigation into.
.
.B: .
.
.
Split UtterancesChristine Howes, Patrick G.T.
Healey and Gregory J. MillsQueen Mary University of LondonInteraction, Media and Communication Research Group, London, E1 4NS{chrizba, ph, gj}@dcs.qmul.ac.ukAbstractA distinguishing feature of dialogue is thatmore that one person can contribute to theproduction of an utterance.
However, un-til recently these ?split?
utterances have re-ceived relatively little attention in mod-els of dialogue processing or of dialoguestructure.
Here we report an experimentthat tests the effects of artificially intro-duced speaker switches on groups of peo-ple engaged in a task-oriented dialogue.The results show that splits have reliableeffects on response time and on the num-ber of edits involved in formulating sub-sequent turns.
In particular we show thatif the second half of an utterance is ?mis-attributed?
people take longer to respondto it.
We also show that responses to ut-terances that are split across speakers in-volve fewer deletes.
We argue that theseeffects provide evidence that: a) speakerswitches affect processing where they in-terfere with expectations about who willspeak next and b) that the pragmatic effectof a split is to suggest to other participantsthe formation of a coalition or sub-?party?.1 IntroductionSplit utterances, defined simply as utteranceswhich are split between speakers1, are knownto occur in dialogue, as evidenced by Conversa-1What we call split utterances have been variously re-ferred to as collaborative turn sequences (Lerner, 1996;Lerner, 2004), collaborative completions (Clark, 1996) co-constructions (Helasvuo, 2004), co-participant completions(Hayashi, 1999; Lerner and Takagi, 1999) collaborative pro-ductions (Szczepek, 2000) and anticipatory completions (Foxand others, 2007) amongst others.tional Analysis (CA) studies, based on the anal-ysis of naturally occuring dialogues.
In addi-tion to numerous analyses of split utterances ingeneric English dialogues, there are cross lin-guistic studies, and observations of conversationswith aphasics.
In Finnish, split utterances withina single clause conform to the strict syntacticconstraints of the language (which has a richinflectional morphology), despite the change inspeaker (Helasvuo, 2004).
Similarly, in Japanese,a verb-final language, speakers also engage in ?co-participant completions?
(Hayashi, 1999; Lernerand Takagi, 1999).
There is also evidence ofsplit utterances in conversations with aphasics(Oelschlaeger and Damico, 1998), demonstrat-ing that the phenomenon is pervasive in dia-logue.
However, with the possible exception ofSzczepek (2000) who analysed some 200 splitsfrom 40 hours of recorded English conversation,these studies tend to be unconcerned with frequen-cies of occurrence; that split utterances occur at allrenders them worthy of study.Split utterances are a clear and canonical exam-ple of coordination in dialogue.
In order for oneperson to continue an utterance which has been be-gun by another person requires the hearer to havecoordinated with the initial speaker up to the pointat which they take over the role of producer2.Analysis of split utterances, when they can orcannot occur and what effects they have on the co-ordination of agents in dialogue, is therefore anarea of interest not only for conversational an-alysts wishing to characterise sytematic interac-tions in dialogue, but also linguists trying to for-mulate grammars of dialogue, and psychologistsinterested in alignment mechanisms in dialogue.2Note that this says nothing about whether such a continu-ation is the same as the initial speakers intended continuation.79In this regard, studies of split utterances, in bothspontaneous dialogues and experimentally, as be-low, provide a complementary way of studyingstructural alignment to the traditional experimen-tal set up exemplified by Branigan and colleagues(Branigan et al, 2000; Branigan et al, 2003;Branigan et al, 2006).
Indeed, Poesio and Rieser(In preparation) claim that ?
[c]ollaborative com-pletions .
.
.
are among the strongest evidence yetfor the argument that dialogue requires coordina-tion even at the sub-sentential level?
(italics origi-nal).Broadly speaking, there have been two types,or levels, of explanations of split utterances of-fered; pragmatic accounts and processing ac-counts.
Pragmatic accounts are favoured by Con-versational Analysts, with various aspects of splitutterances analysed.
However, in line with CA as-sumptions, these analyses are almost exclusivelyconcerned with the conditions under which splitutterances can occur.
Lerner (1991), for ex-ample, identifies a number of ?compound?
turn-constructional units, such as the IF-THEN con-struction (whereby the second participant is insome sense licensed to provide the THEN part ofthe structure).
However, Lerner?s insistence onidentifying the circumstances in which split utter-ances usually occur misses the important general-isation that, syntactically, they can be anywhere ina string (his opportunistic completions).
His claimthat an anticipatory completion is ordinarily ?de-signed as a syntactic continuation of the utterancepart it follows at the point of onset?, seems to holdfor all split utterances.The occurrence of split utterances also has im-plications for the organisation of turn-taking, asoutlined in Sacks et al (1974).
According to Sche-gloff (1995), turn-taking operates, not on individ-ual conversational participants, but on ?parties?.For example, if a couple are talking to a third per-son, they may organise their turns as if they areone ?party?, rather than two separate individuals.Lerner (1991) suggests that split utterances canclarify the formation of such parties; ?collabora-tively produced sentences reveal a relationship be-tween syntax and social organisation.
It providesevidence of how syntax can be mobilised to organ-ise participants into ?groups?.
?The processing approach towards split utter-ances is exemplified by the interactive alignmentmodel of Pickering and Garrod (2004).
Theyclaim that;.
.
.
it should be more-or-less as easyto complete someone else?s sentence asone?s own, and this does appear to be thecase.
(Pickering and Garrod, 2004, p186)According to this model, speaker and listenerought to be interchangeable at any point, and thisis also the stance taken by the grammatical frame-work of Dynamic Syntax (Cann et al, 2005).
InDynamic Syntax (DS), parsing and production aretaken to use exactly the same mechanisms, lead-ing to a prediction that split utterances ought to bestrikingly natural (Purver et al, 2006).
Addition-ally, for a third person to process an utterance thatappears to come from two separate speakers oughtnot be more difficult than processing the same ut-terance from a single speaker, regardless of wherein a string the changeover occurs.According to Poesio and Rieser (In prepara-tion), ?the study of sentence completions can shedlight on a number of central issues.
.
.
this type ofdata may be used to compare competing claimsabout coordination ?
i.e.
whether it is best ex-plained with an intentional model like Clark?s.
.
.
orwith a model based on simpler alignment modelslike Pickering and Garrod?s.?
As they see inten-tions as crucial to dialogue management, they con-clude that a model which accounts for intentions(such as their PTT account) better captures theirtask specific split utterance data (See Poncin andRieser (2006) for details of the German data theyare modelling).If this is the case, it ought to be more difficultto process an utterance that appears to be splitbetween speakers, as opposed to one that comesfrom one source, because the intentions of the twodifferent agents have to be considered in arrivingat an interpretation, and they may appear to haveformed a ?party?
with respect to the subject of theutterance.
Additionally it ought to be more dis-ruptive to the conversation if the utterance is at-tributed to someone other than the person whogenuinely contributed it, because the hearer wouldfalsely attribute intentions to the wrong interlocu-tor.
This ought to be especially clear in caseswhere the ?conversational momentum?
appears tobe with the ?wrong?
interlocutor.
Contrarily, if aprocessing model such as the interactive alignmentmodel is correct, then no such differences should80be observed3.To test these predictions, an experiment was setup to alter genuine single-turn utterances into splitutterances at an arbitrary point in the string.
Dif-ferent types of intervention were introduced, in a 2x 2 factorial design, in order to separate out the ef-fects of an utterance appearing to come from twodifferent participants from effects caused by an ap-parent change of floor.2 MethodThe effects of seeing an utterance split betweenspeakers or not were tested using the DialogueExperimentation Toolkit (DiET) chat tool, as de-scribed in Healey et al (2003), which enables dia-logues to be experimentally manipulated.The DiET chat tool allows interventions to beintroduced into a dialogue in real time, thus caus-ing a minimum of disruption to the natural ?flow?of the conversation.
In this case, a number of gen-uine turns in a three way conversation were artifi-cially split into two sections, with both parts eitherappearing to originate from the genuine source, orone or both parts being falsely attributed to anotherparticipant.2.1 Materials2.1.1 The Balloon TaskThe balloon task is an ethical dilemma re-quiring agreement on which of three passengersshould be thrown out of a hot air balloon that willcrash, killing all the passengers, if one is not sac-rificed.
The choice is between a scientist, who be-lieves he is on the brink of discovering a cure forcancer, a 7 months pregnant woman, and her hus-band, the pilot.
This task was chosen on the basisthat it should stimulate discussion, leading to dia-logues of a sufficient length to enable an adequatenumber of interventions.2.1.2 The DiET Chat ToolThe DiET chat tool itself is a custom built javaapplication consisting of two main components,which will be outlined in turn; the user interface,and the server console.3This is, of course, an oversimplification, and note that incontrast to pragmatic accounts, no claims are made regard-ing higher level discourse effects of the split utterance, as thefocus is on the mechanisms which allow split utterances tooccur.
Additional mechanisms could of course be posited inprocessing models to account for any such differences.2.1.3 User interfaceThe user interface is designed to look and feellike instant messaging applications e.g.
MicrosoftMessenger.
It consists of a display split into twowindows, with a status bar, indicating whether anyother participant(s) are actively typing, betweenthem (see figure 1).
The ongoing dialogue, con-sisting of both the nickname of the contributor andtheir transmitted text, is shown in the upper win-dow.
In the lower window, participants type andrevise their contributions, before sending them totheir co-participants.
All key presses are time-stamped and stored by the server.Figure 1: The user interface chat window (asviewed by participant ?sam?
)2.1.4 Server ConsoleAll text entered is passed to the server, fromwhere it is relayed to the other participants, notrelayed directly between participants.
Prior to be-ing relayed, some turns are altered by the server tocreate fake split utterances.This is carried out automatically such that agenuine single-person turn is split around a spacecharacter near the centre of the string.
The partof the turn before the space is relayed first, fol-lowed by a short delay during which no other turnsmay be sent.
This is followed by the part of theturn after the space, as if they were in fact twoquite separate, consecutive turns.
In every case,the server produces two variants of the split utter-ance, relaying different information to both recip-ients.
Each time an intervention is triggered, oneof the two recipients receives both parts from theactual source of the utterance (henceforth referredto as an AA-split).
The other recipient receivesone of three, more substantial, manipulations; thefirst half could appear to be from the actual ori-gin with the second part of the split appearing tooriginate from the other recipient (an AB-split), or81the inverse could be the case (a BA-split), or bothparts could be wrongly attributed to the other par-ticipant (a BB-split).
This design was in order toseparate the effects of a change in conversationalmomentum (floor change) from the effects of split-ting per se, hence the inclusion of the BB condi-tion where who apparently has the floor is alteredwithout the utterance being attributable to differ-ent participants.
This contrast is shown in table 1.Table 1: Comparison of split typesA types:Should we start nowB sees (AA intervention):A: Should weA: start nowC sees (one of):AB intervention: BA intervention: BB intervention:A: Should we B: Should we B: Should weB: start now A: start now B: start nowThe intervention is triggered every 10 turns, andrestricted such that the participant who receivesthe non AA-split is rotated (to ensure that eachparticipant only sees any of the more substantiallymanipulated interventions every 30 turns).
Whichof the three non AA-splits they see (AB, BA orBB) is, however, generated randomly.2.2 Subjects41 male and 19 female native English speaking un-dergraduate students were recruited for the exper-iment, in groups of three to ensure that they werefamiliar with each other.
All had previous expe-rience of internet chat software such as MicrosoftMessenger and each was paid ?7.00 for their par-ticipation.2.3 ProcedureEach of the triad of subjects was sat in front of adesktop computer in separate rooms, so that theywere unable to see or hear each other.
Subjectswere asked to follow the on screen instructions,and input their e-mail address and their username(the nickname that would identify their contribu-tions in the chat window).
When they had en-tered these, a blank chat window appeared, andthey were given a sheet of paper with the task de-scription on.
Participants were instructed to readthis carefully, and begin discussing the task withtheir colleagues via the chat window once theyhad done so.
They were told that the experi-ment was investigating the differences in commu-nication when conducted using a text only inter-face as opposed to face-to-face.
Additionally, sub-jects were informed that the experiment would lastapproximately 20-30 minutes, and that all turnswould be recorded anonymously for later analy-sis.
Once all three participants had been loggedon, the experimenter went to sit at the server ma-chine, a fourth desktop PC out of sight of all threesubjects, and made no further contact with themuntil at least 20 minutes of dialogue had been car-ried out.3 ResultsA post experimental questionnaire and debrief-ing showed that participants felt the conversationswent as smoothly as face-to-face dialogue.
Withthe exception of one subject, who had taken partin a previous chat tool experiment and was there-fore aware that interventions may occur, none ofthe participants reported awareness of any inter-ventions.As production and receipt of turns sometimesoccurs in overlap in text chat, it is not possibleto say definitively when one turn is made in di-rect response to another4.
We therefore chose twoseparate measures; next turn ?
the first turn, bythe first recipient to start and complete a response,after receipt of the intervention, and global ?
allthe turns produced by both recipients between themost recent intervention and the next intervention,averaged to produce one data point per recipientper intervention.
This means that in the next turncondition, only one datapoint is analysed for eachintervention, despite two different people seeingan intervention (and both usually producing a re-sponse).
This was to try and isolate the initial re-sponse to an intervention; for the other person whosaw a split but did not respond first, it is not clearif they are responding to the split utterance, or to4In online chat, participants can compose their next turnssimultaneously, and turns under construction when another isreceived can be subsequently revised, prior to transmission.This means that a genuine response to a split utterance mighthave a negative start time.
However, the inclusion of caseswhere the whole turn was constructed after receiving the split(an arbitrary cut-off point, which would catch some turns thatwere responses to earlier turns in the dialogue, and miss somewhich were begun before the intervention was received andsubsequently revised) should impose the same level of noisein all cases.82the person who already responded to the split ut-terance.
In the global condition, in contrast, thereare two datapoints for each intervention (one foreach of the participants who saw a split utterance).Of the 253 interventions to which at least onerecipient responded, 89 were AA/AB splits, 99were AA/BA splits and 65 AA/BB splits.
Table 2shows the n values in each case.Both next turn and global measures were anal-ysed according to two factors in a 2 x 2 factorialdesign; split ?
whether both parts of the utterancehad appeared to come from the same person, orfrom different sources ([AA and BB] vs [AB andBA]), and floor change ?
who appeared to haveproduced the second part of the split, the genuinesource, or the other participant ([AA and BA] vs[AB and BB]).Measures selected for analysis were typing timeof turn (The time, in milliseconds, between thefirst key press in a turn and sending the turn tothe other participants by hitting the return key) andlength of turn in characters as measures of produc-tion; deletes per character (The number of keyeddeletes plus one (to prevent null values) dividedby the total number of characters) as a measureof revisions; and typing time per character as ameasure of speed.
Data in tables are displayed inthe original scale of measurement.
However, asinspection of the data showed that they were notnormally distributed, logarithmic transformations(using loge) were applied to the data prior to allformal analyses.2 x 2 ANOVAs show a main effect of floorchange on the typing time of turn (see table 2).This holds for next turns (F(3,249) = 7.13, p <0.05) and globally (F(3,486) = 3.78, p < 0.05),with participants taking longer over their turns inthe AB and BB conditions.
There was no maineffect of split, and no effect of interaction.
Thiseffect is greater locally than globally, with partici-pants who respond first after seeing a floor changecondition taking more than 40% longer over theirturns than those who saw a non-floor change con-dition.
Globally the difference is in the order of10%.There was a main effect of split on the numberof deletes per character , which also held both inthe next turn condition (F(3,249) = 6.26, p < 0.05)and globally (F(3,486) = 9.23, p < 0.05), withsubjects seeing a split condition (AB or BA) us-ing fewer deletes per character than those seeinga non-split condition (see table 3).
There was nomain effect of floor change or interaction effect.This effect is also stronger in the next turn con-dition, with those not seeing a cross-person splitusing over 50% more deletes.
In the global condi-tion, this difference is still 40%, though the overallproportion of deletes is approximately 25% lower,from 0.334 per character in the next turn conditionto 0.244 globally.Table 2: Typing time of turn by type of interven-tionCondition Mean (s.d.)
N (poss N)Next TurnAA 9475.54 (12258.5) 136 (253)AB 14560.70 (18863.9) 37 (89)BA 6968.24 (6437.0) 51 (99)BB 14812.59 (20367.8) 29 (65)GlobalAA 11122.27 (14413.5) 246 (253)AB 12500.98 (10944.6) 89 (89)BA 9800.77 (8810.3) 92 (99)BB 11561.67 (10138.4) 63 (65)Table 3: Deletes per character by type of interven-tionCondition Mean (s.d.
)Next TurnAA 0.435 (1.63)AB 0.152 (0.30)BA 0.202 (0.25)BB 0.324 (0.61)GlobalAA 0.288 (0.83)AB 0.192 (0.28)BA 0.145 (0.18)BB 0.287 (0.37)Additional analyses showed an effect of floorchange on length of turn in characters (table 4)in the next turn condition (F(3,249) = 5.57, p <0.05) such that turns are longer in the AB and BBconditions (note that though this might be thoughtto be confounded by the typing time of turn, as youwould expect longer turns to take longer to type,there are no significant effects when ANOVAs areperformed on typing time per character).
There isno main effect of split, or interaction effect.
In theglobal condition, however, there is a main effectof split (F(3,486) = 4.08, p < 0.05) such that turnsare longer after seeing an utterance that appearsto be split between two different people (AB andBA conditions).
There is no main effect of floorchange, and no effect of interaction.83As the experiment was looking for generic ef-fects of splitting on coordination, the location ofthe splits was random.
A post-hoc analysis wastherefore carried out to ascertain whether the stan-dalone coherence (as judged by the authors) of thetwo separate parts of the utterance was a possibleconfounding factor.
Examples of coherence judge-ments are shown in table 5.Table 4: Length of turn in characters by type ofinterventionCondition Mean (s.d.
)Next TurnAA 23.95 (22.0)AB 37.76 (34.9)BA 23.92 (18.4)BB 26.52 (21.5)GlobalAA 26.41 (20.4)AB 32.12 (23.9)BA 28.27 (18.4)BB 25.78 (13.6)Table 5: Examples of standalone coherence judge-ment examplesPart of Split CoherentFirst Second 1st 2ndwhat the hell is that Y Nthe woman is pregnant she should stay Y Ythese people said you did something N YI think this is also the wish of the doctor N N2 x 2 ANOVAs showed that in the next turn con-dition, there are no main effects of first or sec-ond part coherence, but there was an interactioneffect of first part coherence by second part co-herence on deletes (F(3,249) = 4.05, p < 0.05),such that if both parts are independently coherent,or if neither part is independently coherent, thereare fewer deletes used in the turn immediately fol-lowing the intervention (see table 6).
There are nosignificant global effects.Table 6: Deletes per character by first and secondpart standalone coherence (next turn condition)Coherence Mean (s.d.
)1st 2ndY Y 0.198 (0.38)N 0.651 (2.26)N Y 0.304 (0.66)N 0.206 (0.30)Running a 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 ANOVA with these ad-ditional factors does not alter the main effects ob-served for floor change or split, as detailed above.There are no additional interaction effects on anyof the measures.4 DiscussionAs this is the first experimental study into split ut-terances using the DiET chat tool, what follows isnecessarily exploratory.
This discussion presentsour current hypotheses as to how best to interpretthe data, as summarised in table 7, below.Table 7: Summary of significant effectsEffect of Condition on and directionFloor Next Turn Typing TimeChange and Global (AB ?BB) > (AA ?BA)Floor Next Turn Number of CharsChange (AB ?BB) > (AA ?BA)Split Next Turn Deletesand Global (AA ?BB) > (AB ?BA)Split Global Number of Chars(AB ?BA) > (AA ?BB)Taking longer over the production of a turn (in-dependently of typing speed) indicates a lack ofconfidence in the conversation (misattributing thesecond part of the utterance thus reducing confi-dence), and is also indicative of local organisationof turn-taking.
If a participant who has seen a floorchange intervention (Participant C) responds first,then they may be taking longer over their turns be-cause there is less pressure on them to take a turn.This is because of the C?s expectations.
They willfalsely believe that the fake source (Participant B)has just completed a turn, and will therefore notexpect them to take the floor, and the genuinesource (Participant A) will not be taking the floorbecause they have just completed a turn (though Cdoes not know this).
It is probable that in the turnimmediately following a floor change interventionboth these factors are at play, whereas globally itis the weaker effect of generic confidence loss thatis observed.
This compounding of effects in thenext turn condition would also help explain the di-vergent effects on the length of turn in charactersin next turn and global conditions.Regardless of the precise reasons for it, this ef-fect of floor change on typing time clearly demon-strates that changing the apparent speaker is dis-ruptive, perhaps because it alters the forward mo-84mentum of the conversation.More interestingly, independently of a changeof floor, seeing an utterance that appears to be splitbetween speakers also has an impact on the con-versation, seen in the amount of revision under-taken in formulating a response (deletes).
One rea-son why participants might worry less about pre-cisely formulating their turns following a cross-person split is that the production of a cross-personsplit could have the effect on the recipient of sug-gesting that the two other participants have formeda ?party?
(Schegloff, 1995) with respect to the de-cision of who to throw out of the balloon.
Thismight be understood as signalling the formationof a strong coalition between the other two partic-ipants, therefore making the recipient behave asthough they are resigned to the decision of thiscoalition.
This is not the same as the effect on thetyping time of turn, whereby participants are lessrushed when seeing a change of floor.
Deletes, onthe other hand, demonstrate how carefully partici-pants are constructing their turns.
Excerpt 1, takenfrom the transcripts shows an example where thisappears to be the case.Excerpt 1 AB-Split showing apparent coalitionbetween ?Bhups?
and ?Dan?
(?fake?
part of splitshown in bold)Bhups: and he can tell his formulaDan: to tom and susieIf we take split utterances as an indicator of co-ordination then it is likely that if we believe ourtwo conversational partners to be in coordination,we will worry less about precisely formulating ourown contributions.
This also backs up the idea thatpeople are not interchangeable.The interaction of first and second part coher-ence also underlines the effect of split on revi-sions as outlined above.
In the case were bothparts of the split could potentially stand as inde-pendent utterances, they are treated as such andthe number of deletes per character is in line withthe global average (i.e.
they are treated as nor-mal dialogue).
In the other non ambiguous case,where neither part could be interpreted as an ut-terance on its own, there are also fewer deletes,in line with the result that there are fewer deletesin strong split cases.
Interestingly, the most dis-ruptive case is that where the first part could havebeen a standalone utterance, but the second partcould not.
This could be seen as analogous to agarden path effect, and provides some indicationthat that the building up of interpretations is incre-mental, and not concerned with who supplies theinput.These results do not, of course, prejudice theclaim that, at a purely mechanistic level, peoplecould anticipate the structures needed to completea turn, as the interactive alignment model sug-gests, because they are not concerned with the ac-tual production of a split utterance, rather on theeffect it has on the conversation.
They do indicatethat in terms of the effects of seeing split utter-ances, the pragmatic approach offers a more fea-sible level of analysis.
For example, if we wishto treat a jointly produced split utterance as sig-nalling especially strong alignment, then we needto account for more than simply syntax.There is an issue with the design of the exper-iment which means that the floor change effectsmight be caused by a confounding variable; inessence, because one of the recipients always re-ceived an AA-split, in the cases which have beenlabelled as cases of floor change, the two recipi-ents will have been left with the impression that adifferent person made the final contribution.
Thismeans that there may well be a an effect of con-founded listener expectation (though see Schoberand Brennan (2003) for discussion), although itshould be noted that this does not have any bear-ing on the observed differences after an utterancesplit between speakers.
It is also possible thatsplit utterances might be particularly marked in achat environment, though preliminary results of acorpus study show that, perhaps surprisingly, splitutterances also occur naturally and as frequentlyin text-based chat (Eshghi, in prep) as they do inface-to-face dialogue (Purver et al, 2009).
Be-cause of these issues, and the already noted po-tential problems of linearity in text-based chat,a follow-up study using a character-by-characterchat tool interface is underway.
This more directlyenforces turn-taking, as it does not allow partici-pants to formulate their turn before communicat-ing it; each character is transmitted as and when itis entered.5 ConclusionsThe experiment reported here offers clues towardsan understanding of split utterances as an exam-ple of dialogue phenomena, and provides evidence85that speaker switches affect processing where theyinterfere with expectations about who will speaknext and that the pragmatic effect of a split is tosuggest to other participants the formation of acoalition or sub-?party?.
It also clearly demon-strates that this type of experiment provides a fruit-ful line of future research in the ongoing attempt toadequately characterise dialogue, though furtherdevelopments are needed.ReferencesH.
Branigan, M. Pickering, and A. Cleland.
2000.Syntactic co-ordination in dialogue.
Cognition,75(2):13?25.H.
Branigan, M. Pickering, J. Pearson, J. McLean, andC.
Nass.
2003.
Syntactic alignment between com-puters and people: The role of belief about mentalstates.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-fifth AnnualConference of the Cognitive Science Society.H.
Branigan, M. Pickering, J. McLean, and A. Stewart.2006.
The role of local and global syntactic struc-ture in language production: Evidence from syn-tactic priming.
Language and cognitive processes,21(7-8):974?1010.R.
Cann, R. Kempson, and L. Marten.
2005.
The Dy-namics of Language.
Elsevier, Oxford.H.
Clark.
1996.
Using Language.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.A.
Eshghi.
in prep.
Uncommon ground: the distri-bution of dialogue contexts.
Ph.D. thesis, Depart-ment of Computer Science, Queen Mary Universityof London.A.
Fox et al 2007.
Principles shaping grammati-cal practices: an exploration.
Discourse Studies,9(3):299.M.
Hayashi.
1999.
Where Grammar and Interac-tion Meet: A Study of Co-Participant Completion inJapanese Conversation.
Human Studies, 22(2):475?499.P.
G. T. Healey, M. Purver, J.
King, J. Ginzburg, andG.
J.
Mills.
2003.
Experimenting with clarifica-tion in dialogue.
In Proceedings of the 25th AnnualMeeting of the Cognitive Science Society.M.
Helasvuo.
2004.
Shared syntax: the gram-mar of co-constructions.
Journal of Pragmatics,36(8):1315?1336.G.
Lerner and T. Takagi.
1999.
On the placeof linguistic resources in the organization of talk-in-interaction: A co-investigation of English andJapanese grammatical practices.
Journal of Prag-matics, 31(1):49?75.G.
Lerner.
1991.
On the syntax of sentences-in-progress.
Language in Society, pages 441?458.G.
Lerner.
1996.
On the semi-permeable characterof grammatical units in conversation: Conditionalentry into the turn space of another speaker.
InE.
Ochs, E. A. Schegloff, and S. A. Thompson,editors, Interaction and grammar, pages 238?276.Cambridge University Press.G.
Lerner.
2004.
Collaborative turn sequences.
InConversation analysis: Studies from the first gener-ation, pages 225?256.
John Benjamins.M.
Oelschlaeger and J. Damico.
1998.
Joint produc-tions as a conversational strategy in aphasia.
Clini-cal linguistics & phonetics, 12(6):459?480.M.
Pickering and S. Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mech-anistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral andBrain Sciences, 27:169?226.M.
Poesio and H. Rieser.
In preparation.
Completions,coordination, and alignment in dialogue.
to appear.K.
Poncin and H. Rieser.
2006.
Multi-speaker utter-ances and co-ordination in task-oriented dialogue.Journal of Pragmatics, 38(5):718?744.M.
Purver, R. Cann, and R. Kempson.
2006.Grammars as parsers: Meeting the dialogue chal-lenge.
Research on Language and Computation,4(2-3):289?326.M.
Purver, C. Howes, P. G. Healey, and E. Gre-goromichelaki.
2009.
Split utterances in dialogue:a corpus study.
In SigDial 2009 workshop proceed-ings.H.
Sacks, E. Schegloff, and G. Jefferson.
1974.
A sim-plest systematics for the organization of turn-takingfor conversation.
Language, pages 696?735.E.
Schegloff.
1995.
Parties and talking together: Twoways in which numbers are significant for talk-in-interaction.
Situated order: Studies in the socialorganization of talk and embodied activities, pages31?42.M.
Schober and S. Brennan.
2003.
Processes of in-teractive spoken discourse: The role of the partner.Handbook of discourse processes, pages 123?64.B.
Szczepek.
2000.
Formal Aspects of Col-laborative Productions in English Conversa-tion.
Interaction and Linguistic Structures(InLiSt), http://www.uni-potsdam.de/u/inlist/issues/17/index.htm.86
