Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 107?114,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPInteraction Grammar for the Persian Language:Noun and Adjectival PhrasesMasood Ghayoomi Bruno GuillaumeNancy2 University LORIA - INRIA, BP 23954506 Vandoeuvre, Nancy cedex, France 54506 Vandoeuvre, Nancy cedex, Francemasood29@gmail.com Bruno.Guillaume@loria.frAbstractIn this paper we propose a modelization ofthe construction of Persian noun and adjec-tival phrases in a phrase structure grammar.This modelization uses the InteractionGrammar (IG) formalism by taking advan-tage of the polarities on features and treedescriptions for the various constructionsthat we studied.
The proposed grammar wasimplemented with a Metagrammar compilernamed XMG.
A small test suite was builtand tested with a parser based on IG, calledLEOPAR.
The experimental results showthat we could parse the phrases successfully,even the most complex ones which havevarious constructions in them.1 IntroductionInteraction Grammar (IG) is a grammatical for-malism which is based on the notions of polar-ized features and tree descriptions.Polarities express the resource sensitivity ofnatural language by modeling the distinction be-tween saturated and unsaturated syntactic con-struction (Guillaume and Perrier, 2008).IG focuses on the syntactic level of a natural lan-guage.
This formalism is designed in such a waythat it can be linked with a lexicon, independentof any formalism.
The notion of polarity that is atthe heart of IG will be discussed in section 2.2.In IG, the parsing output of a sentence is an or-dered tree where nodes represent syntactic con-stituents described by feature structures.What we are interested in is studying the con-struction of constituencies of the Persian lan-guage according to IG.
Among variousconstituencies in the language, we have focusedon the construction of Persian noun phrases andadjectival phrases as the first step to build agrammar for this language.The current work covers only noun and adjecti-val phrases; it is only a first step toward a fullcoverage of Persian grammar.
The grammar pre-sented here could have been expressed in TreeAdjoining Grammar (TAG) or even in ContextFree Grammar with features, but we stronglybelieve that the modelization of the verbal con-struction of Persian, which is much more com-plex, can benefit from advanced specificities ofIG, like polarities, underspecifications and trees.2 Previous Studies2.1 IG for French and EnglishThe first natural language considered within IGwas French.
A large coverage grammar whichcovers most of the frequent constructions ofFrench, including coordination, has been built(Perrier, 2007; Le Roux and Perrier, 2007).Recently, using the fact that the French and Eng-lish languages have many syntactic similarities,Planul (2008) proposed an English IG built bymodifying the French one.
These two grammarswere tested on the Test Suite for Natural Lan-guage Processing (TSNLP; Oepen et al 1996).Both cover 85% of the sentences in the TSNLP.2.2 PolarityThe notion of polarity is based on the old idea ofTesni?re (1934), Jespersen (1935), and Adjuk-iewicz (1935) that a sentence is considered as amolecule with its words as the atoms; every wordis equipped with a valence which expresses itscapacity of interaction with other words, so thatsyntactic composition appears as a chemical re-action (Gaiffe and Perrier, 2004).
Apparently, itseems Nasr (1995) was the first to propose a107formalism that explicitly uses the polarized struc-ture in computational linguistics.
Then re-searches such as Muskens and Krahmer (1998),Duchier and Thater (1999), and Perrier (2000)proposed grammatical formalisms in which po-larity is also explicitly used.
However, CategorialGrammar was the first grammatical formalismthat exploited implicitly the idea of polarity(Lambek, 1958).
Recently, Kahane (2006)showed that well-known formalisms such asCFG, TAG, HPSG, and LFG could be viewed aspolarized formalisms.IG has highlighted the fundamental mechanismof neutralization between polarities underlyingCG in such a way that polarities are attached tothe features used for describing constituents andnot to the constituents themselves.
Polarizationof a grammatical formalism consists of addingpolarities to its syntactic structure to obtain a po-larized formalism in which neutralization of po-larities is used to control syntactic composition.In this way, the resource sensitivity of syntacticcomposition is made explicit (Kahane, 2004).In trees expressing syntactic structures, nodesthat represent constituents are labeled with po-larities with the following meanings: A constitu-ent labeled with a negative polarity (<-)represents an expected constituent, whereas aconstituent labeled with the positive polarity (->)represents an available resource.
Both of thesepolarities can unify to build a constituent whichis labeled with a saturated neutral polarity (<=>)that cannot interact with any other constituents.The composition of structures is guided by theprinciple of neutralization that every positivelabel must unify with a negative label, and viceversa.
Nodes that are labeled with the simpleneutral polarity (=) do not behave as consumableresources and can be superposed with any othernodes any number of times; they represent con-stituents or features indifferently.The notion of saturation in terms of polarity isdefined as a saturated structure that has all itspolarities neutral, whereas an unsaturated struc-ture keeps positive or negative polarities whichexpress its ability to interact with other struc-tures.
A complete syntactic tree must be satu-rated; that means it is without positive ornegative nodes and it can not be composed withother structures: so all labels are associated withthe polarity of = or <=>.The set of polarities {-> , <- , = , <=>} isequipped with the operation of compositionalunification as defined in the table below (Bon-fante et al 2004):<- -> = <=><-  <=> <--> <=>  ->= <- -> = <=><=>   <=>Table 1.
Polarity compositions on the nodes2.3 Tree Description Logic in IGAnother specification of IG is that syntacticstructures can be underspecified: these structuresare trees descriptions.
It is possible, for instance,to impose that a node dominates another nodewithout giving the length of the domination path.Guillaume and Perrier (2008) have defined fourkinds of relations:- Immediate dominance relations: N > M meansthat M is an immediate sub-constituent of N.- Underspecified dominance relations: N >* Mmeans that the constituent N includes anotherconstituent M at a more or less deep level.
(Withthis kind of node relations, long distance depend-encies and possibilities of applying modifierscould be expressed.
)- Immediate precedence relations: N << M meansthat the constituent M precedes the constituent Nimmediately in the linear order of the sentence.- Underspecified precedence relations: N <<+ Mmeans that the constituent M precedes the con-stituent N in the linear order of the sentence butthe relation between them cannot be identified.3 The Persian Language PropertiesPersian is a member of the Indo-European lan-guage family and has many features in commonwith the other languages in this family in termsof morphology, syntax, phonology, and lexicon.Although Persian uses a modified version of theArabic alphabet, the two languages differ fromone another in many respects.Persian is a null-subject language with SOVword order in unmarked structures.
However, theword order is relatively free.
The subject mood iswidely used.
Verbs are inflected in the languageand they indicate tense and aspect, and agreewith subject in person and number.
The languagedoes not make use of gender (M?hooti?n, 1997).In noun phrases, the sequence of words is aroundat least one noun, namely the head word.
So, thenoun phrase could be either a single unit noun, ora sequence of other elements with a noun.
Thesyntax of Persian allows for having elements be-fore a noun head _prenominal, and after the nounhead _postnominal.108To make a phrase, there are some restrictions forthe elements surrounding a head to make a con-stituent; otherwise the sequence of elements willbe ill-formed, that is, ungrammatical.Nouns belong to an open class of words.
Thenoun could be a common noun, a proper noun, ora pronoun.
If this noun is not a proper noun or apronoun, some elements can come before it andsome after it (M?hooti?n, 1997).
Some of theprenominal elements coming before a noun headare cardinal numbers, ordinal numbers, superla-tive adjectives, and indefinite determiners; post-nominal elements are nouns and noun phrases,adjectives and adjectival phrases, adjectivalclauses with conjunctions, indefinite post-determiners, prepositional phrases, adverbs ofplace and time, ordinal numbers, possessive ad-jectives, and Ezafeh.The syntactical structure of an adjectival phraseis simple.
It is made up of a head adjective andelements that come before and after the head.
Anadjectival phrase is a modifier of a noun.
Theelements coming before a simple adjective areadverbs of quantity and prepositional phrases.4 Required Tools4.1 Test SuiteThe test suite is a set of controlled data that issystematically organized and documented.
In thiscase, the test suite is a kind of reference data dif-ferent from data in large collections of text cor-pora.
A test suite should have the followingadvantages: it should have a broad coverage onthe structural level, so you can find many struc-tures of a language with a minimal lexicon; itcould be multilingual, so the structure of the lan-guages could be compared; it should be a consis-tent and highly structured linguistic annotation.The differences between a test suite and a corpusare: that in test suite there is a control on thedata, that the data has a systematic coverage, thatthe data has a non-redundant representation, thatthe data is annotated coherently, and that relevantungrammatical constructions are included inten-tionally in a test suite (Oepen et al 1996).Since our end goal is to develop a fragment ofPersian grammar, to the best of our knowledgeno already developed test suite for our targetconstructions was available; so we built a verysmall test suite with only 50 examples based on asmall lexicon _only 41 entries.4.2 XMGThe XMG system is usually called a "meta-grammar compiler" is a tool for designing large-scale grammars for natural language.
This systemhas been designed and implemented in theframework of Benoit Crabb?
(2005).XMG has provided a compact representation ofgrammatical information which combines ele-mentary fragments of information to produce afully redundant, strongly lexicalized grammar.The role of such a language is to allow us tosolve two problems that arise while developinggrammars: to reach a good factorization in theshared structures, and to control the way thefragments are combined.It is possible to use XMG as a tool for both treedescriptions in IG and TAG.
Since there isnotany built-in graphical representation for IG inXMG, LEOPAR is used to display the grammar.LEOPAR is a parser for processing natural lan-guages based on the IG formalism.4.3 LEOPARLEOPAR is a tool chain constructed based on IG(Guillaume et al 2008).
It is a parser for IG thatcan be used as a standalone parser in which in-puts are sentences and outputs are constitu-ent trees.
But it also provides a graphical userinterface which is mostly useful for testing anddebugging during the stages of developing thegrammar.
The interface can be used for interac-tive or automated parsing.
LEOPAR also pro-vides several visualization modes for thedifferent steps in the parsing process.
Further-more, it offers some tools to deal with lexicons:they can be expressed in a factorized way andthey can be compiled to improve parsing effi-ciency.LEOPAR is based on UTF8 encoding, so it sup-ports Persian characters.
It is also modified totake into account the right-to-left languages.
Forour designed grammar we have taken the advan-tage of this parser for IG.5 Designing the GrammarIn this section we explicitly describe the treeconstruction of the Persian noun and adjectivalphrase structures which are polarized.
We haveprovided the elementary syntactic structures de-rived from the existing rules in the language andthen polarized the features in the trees which arenamed initial polarized tree descriptions.109To be more comprehensible and clear, nodes areindexed for addressing.
More importantly, thetrees should be read from right-to-left to matchthe writing system in the right-to-left language.For clarity in the tree representations in this pa-per, no features are given to the nodes.
But whiledeveloping the grammar with XMG, polarizedfeatures are given to the nodes to put a control onconstructing the trees and avoid over-generatingsome constructions.There are some constructions whose tree repre-sentations are the same but represent two differ-ent constructions, so they could be describedfrom two different points of views.
Such trees aredescribed in the sections corresponding to therelevant constructions.
Some morphophonemicphenomena were considered at the syntacticlevel, while developing our grammar.
Such aphenomenon is defined at the feature level forthe lexicon which will be described in their rele-vant sections.5.1 Noun ConstructionA noun phrase could consist of several elementsor only one head noun element.
If the element ofa noun phrase (N1) is a noun, it is anchored to alexicon item (N2) which could be a commonnoun, or a proper noun.
The symbol ?
has beenused for the nodes that are anchored to a lexicalitem.
-> N1|= N2?The tree of a common noun and a proper nounare the same, but features should be given to thetree to make a distinction between the anchorednouns.
With the help of features, we can makesome restrictions to avoid some constructions.Features and their values are not fully discussedhere.5.2 Pronoun ConstructionA pronoun can appear both in subject and objectpositions to make a noun.
In this construction,node N3 is anchored to a pronoun:-> N3|= PRON?A pronoun cannot be used in all constructions.For example, N3 cannot be plugged into N5 in adeterminer construction because a determinercould not come before a pronoun.
To avoid thisconstruction, some features have been used forthe node N5 to stop the unification with some Nnodes like N3.5.3 Determiner ConstructionIn Persian a determiner comes before a commonnoun or a noun phrase, and not a proper noun ora pronoun.Persian does not benefit from the definite deter-miner, but there are two kinds of indefinite de-terminers: one comes before a noun as a separatelexical item and the other one comes after a noun(post-determiner) which is joined to the end ofthe noun as described below:If the determiner comes before a noun, theremust be a tree in which a Det node is anchored toa lexicon item that is a determiner and whichcomes immediately before a noun.
In otherwords, some lexical items which are determinerscould attach to this node:-> N4<- N5  = Det?If the determiner comes after a noun (i.e.
if it is apost-determiner), then it can be joined to the endof a noun.
The post-determiner (P-Det) and thepreceding noun (N7), make a noun (N6):-> N6= P-Det?
<- N7The post-determiner has three different writtenforms: ???
/i/, ????
/yi/, and ????
/?i/.
The reasonto have them is phonological.
In our formalismwe have considered this phonological phenome-non at a syntactic level.If the post-determiner construction is used afteran adjective in the linguistic data, it does not be-long to the adjective (since the adjective is onlythe modifier of the noun), but it belongs to thenoun.
According to the phonological context andthe final sound of the adjective, the post-determiner that belongs to the noun changes andtakes one of the written forms.5.4 Ezafeh ConstructionOne of the properties of Persian is that usuallyshort vowels are not written.
In this language, theEzafeh construction is represented by the shortvowel ?-??
/e/ after consonants or ????
/ye/ aftervowels at the end of a noun or an adjective.Here we try to give a formal representation ofsuch construction that is described from a purelysyntactical point of view.
Ezafeh (Ez) appears on(Kahnemuyipour, 2002): a noun before anothernoun (attributive); a noun before an adjective; anoun before a possessor (noun or pronoun); anadjective before another adjective; a pronoun110before an adjective; first names before lastnames; a combination of the above.Note that Ezafeh only appears on a noun when itis modified.
In other words, it does not appear ona bare noun (e.g.
??????
/ket?b/ 'book').
In Ezafehconstruction, the node Ez is anchored to theEzafeh lexeme.
The below tree could make anoun phrase (N8) with Ezafeh construction, inwhich a common noun or a proper noun on N9 isfollowed by an Ezafeh (Ez) and another commonnoun, proper noun, pronoun or another nounphrase plugs to the node N10:-> N8<- N10   = N= Ez?
<- N9The below tree could make a noun phrase (N11)with Ezafeh construction in which a commonnoun or a proper noun on N12 is modified by anadjectival phrase on node ADJ1.
Ezafeh has to beused after the noun to link it to the adjective:-> N11<- ADJ1   = N= Ez?
<- N12Based on the final sound of the word which isjust before Ezafeh, there are two written formsfor Ezafeh, depending on whether the noun endswith a consonant or a vowel.As we have already said, Ezafeh contractioncould be used for an adjective (ADJ1).
After thisconstruction, another adjectival phrase (ADJ3and ADJ4) with Ezafeh could appear too.
Itshould be mentioned that ADJ4 is plugged intoan adjective without Ezafeh construction:->ADJ2<-ADJ4  =ADJ= Ez?
<-ADJ35.5 Possessive ConstructionIn Persian there are two different constructionsfor possessive.
One is a separate lexical item as acommon noun, a proper noun, or a pronoun.
Thesecond is a possessive pronoun that is a kind ofsuffix which attaches to the end of the noun.
Inthe first construction, a noun with an Ezafeh con-struction is used and then a common noun, aproper noun, or a pronoun as a separate lexicalitem follows.
In the latter construction, there is acommon noun and the joined possessive pro-noun.
The two constructions are discussed here:In section 5.4 we described Ezafeh construction(N8).
This tree could be used for possessive con-struction, too.
In this tree an Ezafeh is used aftera common noun and Ezafeh is followed by eithera common noun or a proper noun.
A pronouncould not be used in N9 with Ezafeh.
Such a kindof construction is avoided by defining features.The possessive construction as a suffix couldcome after both a noun and an adjective.
Thegeneral property of the joined possessive pro-nouns is that there is an agreement between thesubject and the possessive pronoun in terms ofnumber and person, no matter whether it is usedafter a noun or an adjective.If the joined possessive pronoun (S-P) is usedafter a noun (N14), we would have the tree N13in which the possessive pronoun is anchored tothe suffix (S-P):-> N13= S-P?
<- N14Based on the phonological reasons and consider-ing Persian syllables, as was discussed previ-ously in section 5.3, this suffix would havedifferent written forms based on the phonologicalcontext it appears in: after a consonant, the vowel/?/, or any other vowels except /?/.
For adjec-tives, there is no suffix possessive pronoun.
Inthe linguistic data, this pronoun could appearafter the adjective.
But the point is that the adjec-tive is only the modifier of the noun.
This pos-sessive pronoun, in fact, belongs to the noun andnot the adjective, but based on the phonologicalrules (i.e.
the final sound of the adjective) onlyone of the written forms would appear after that.5.6 Count noun ConstructionThere are some nouns in Persian referred to ascount nouns which have collocational relationswith the head noun that is counted.
So, in such aconstruction, the node C-N is anchored to a lexi-cal item that is a count noun:-> N15<- N16  = C-N?5.7 Object ConstructionIn Persian, a noun phrase can appear both in sub-ject and object positions.
If the noun phrase ap-pears in a subject position, it does not require anyindicator.
But if the noun phrase appears in thedirect object position (N18), the marker ????
/r?/is used to indicate that this noun phrase (N17) isa direct object.
We call this marker ?Object Indi-111cator?
(O-I) so the node is anchored to the objectmaker.
The representation of the tree for the ob-ject construction (N17) is the followings:-> N17= O-I?
<- N185.7 Conjunction ConstructionIn Persian, there is a construction to modify thepreceding noun phrase with an adjective clausewhich we have named the Conjunction construc-tion.
In such a construction, there are a nounphrase (N20), a conjunctor (Conj), and a clauseto modify the noun phrase (S1).
In the tree, theconjunction node is anchored to a conjunctor:-> N19= S  <- N20<- S1         = Conj?5.8 Adjective ConstructionsThere are two classes of adjectives: the first classcomes before a noun head, the second one after.There are three kinds of adjectives in the firstclass which can be differentiated from each otherwith the help of features.
The first class of adjec-tives contains superlative adjectives, cardinalnumbers, and ordinal numbers that modify anoun, a count noun, or a noun phrase.
Usually,the adjectives coming before a noun phrase are incomplementary distribution; i.e.
the presence ofone means the absence of the two others.The following tree represents the adjective con-struction coming before a noun (N22).
The ad-jective ADJ5 is anchored to a lexical item:->  N21<- N22  =ADJ5?The second class of adjectives (which comes af-ter a noun) contains mostly simple adjectives,ordinal numbers and comparative adjectives.As we have already described tree N11 in section5.4, to have an adjective after a noun the nounmust have an Ezafeh construction.
So, this treerepresents a construction where an adjective(ADJ1) comes after a noun (N12).To saturate ADJ1, the tree ADJ6 is requiredwhich is anchored to an adjective lexical item:->ADJ6|=ADJ7?In some adjective constructions, a prepositionalphrase could be used which comes before or aftersome adjective constituents.
With the help ofsome features, we have made restrictions on thekind of adjective and the preposition lexical itemthat could plug into this node.If a preposition is used before the adjective(ADJ9), it is a comparative adjective:->ADJ8=ADJ9?
<- P1If the preposition is used after the adjective(ADJ11), it is either a comparative or a simpleadjective:->ADJ10<- P2                      =ADJ11?5.9 Preposition ConstructionIn Persian a common noun, a proper noun, a pro-noun, or a noun phrase could come after apreposition (P4) to make a prepositional phrase(P3):  -> P3<- N23                        = P4?If the preposition construction is used in an ad-jective construction, only some specific preposi-tions can be used.
Once again, the restrictions areencoded with features.6 Implementation and ResultsSo far we have explicitly described the noun andadjectival phrase constructions in Persian accord-ing to the constituency rules that are extractedfrom the linguistic data.
These rules are repre-sented by polarized trees.
Since we wanted tostudy the noun and adjectival phrase structures,they required data.
We have gathered this datafor our purpose as a test suite.To design IG for the constructions that were de-scribed, we have used XMG as the basic tool tohave the initial tree descriptions.
While describ-ing the trees in XMG, several operators will beused to polarizing features.
The categories of thenodes are considered as features, so the nodes arepolarized.
Using XMG, we have done factoriza-tions and defined classes for general trees.
Threefactorized general trees are defined in our XMGcoding.
We have also defined 17 classes for cod-ing of trees to represent the constructions as de-scribed.The output of XMG is given to LEOPAR to dis-play the graphical representations of the treestructures and also parse the data.
The test suiteis given to LEOPAR for parsing.Having the developed trees and the test suite, wesuccessfully parsed all available phrases, from112the simplest to the most complex ones that had avariety of constructions in them.
Example 1 has asimple construction, example 2 is of mediumcomplexity, and example 3 is the most complex:1.
?????????
?/ket?b/ (/e/) /d?niy?l/book    (Ez)   Daniel?the book of Daniel / Daniel?s book?2.
?????
????
????????
??
?????
?/hamzam?n/   /b?/ /ente?
?r/  (/e/) /avvalin/in coincidence  with publishing  (Ez)  the first/ket?b/ (/e/)   /?u/book    (Ez)  his/her?in coincidence with the publishing of his/herfirst book?3.
????
??
??
?????
???
????
???????
?/?n/ /do/ /jeld/ /ket?b/ (/e/) /jadid/ (/e/)that   two    volume    book     (Ez)     new      (Ez)/mohem/   (/e/)  /d?niyal/  /r?/    /ke/important   (Ez)    Daniel   POBJ that?the two new important book volumes of Danielthat?We know from section 5.4 that Ezafeh is pro-nounced but not written.
Since the anchorednodes require a lexical item, we put the word???????
/ez?fe/ ?Ezafeh?
in the lexicon to have areal representation of Ezafeh.
Also, whereverEzafeh is used in the test suite, this word is re-placed.As a sample, we give a brief description of pars-ing the phrases 1 and 2 with LEOPAR and dis-play the outputs.In our test suite, phrase 1 is found as?????
?????
???????.
In this phrase, the commonnoun /ket?b/ is followed by a proper noun/d?niy?l/ with Ezafeh.
The possessive construc-tion (N8) would be used to parse this phrase.In parsing this phrase, firstly LEOPAR reads thewords and matches them with the lexical itemsavailable in the lexicon to identify their catego-ries.
Then it plugs these words into the nodes inthe trees that have the same syntactic categoryand have an anchored node.
Finally, it gives theparsed graphical representation of the phrase.For this phrase, the Ezafeh construction tree isused in such a way that N2 is anchored to theword /ket?b/ and N1 plugs into N9 to saturate it.Then, N2 is again anchored to the word /d?niy?l/and N1 plugs in to saturate N10.
The final parsedphrase is such that all internal nodes are saturatedand have neutral polarity, as shown in Figure 1.As another example, consider phrase 2, which isFigure 1: Parsing the phrase ?????
??????
?with LEOPARFigure 2: Parsing the phrase?
????
??
??????
??
??????
?????
?with LEOPARfound as ?
??
?????
?????
????
???????????
??
??????
?
inour test-suite.
Since some various constructionsare used to build this phrase, we could say that it113is a complex phrase.
Firstly it takes the adjectivephrase construction (ADJ10).
P3, the preposi-tional phrase, plugs into P2.
Since a noun or anoun phrase could be used after a preposition(N23), the Ezafeh construction (N8) that takesthe noun plugs to this node.
Another Ezafeh con-struction (N8) will be plugged into N10.
The ad-jective construction (ADJ5) for ordinal numbersas the modifier of a noun (N22) could be usedwhile a noun (N1) would plug into N22.
Finally,the pronoun (N3) plugs into the unsaturated nounposition in the second Ezafeh construction.
Pars-ing the phrase with LEOPAR, the result has allinternal nodes saturated and neutralized, and nopolarities on the nodes are left unsaturated, asshown in Figure 2.7 Conclusion and Future WorkIn our research we have used IG to represent theconstruction of Persian noun and adjectivalphrases in trees.
XMG was used to represent theconstructions using factorization and inheritedhierarchy relations.
Then, with the help of XMG,we defined IG by taking advantage of polaritieson the features and tree descriptions for the vari-ous constructions that are introduced.
Then, weused LEOPAR for the graphical representationsof the trees and parsing the phrases.
Finally, weapplied our test suite to the parser to checkwhether we had the correct parsing and represen-tation of the phrases.
The experimental resultsshowed that we could parse the phrases success-fully, including the most complex ones, whichhave various constructions in them.In the next step of our research, we would like tostudy the construction of prepositions and, moreimportantly, verbs in depth to make it possible toparse at the sentence level.ReferencesAdjukiewcz K., 1935.
?Die syntaktiche konnexit?t?Studia Philadelphica 1, pp.
1-27.Bonfante G. and B. Guillaume and G. Perrier, 2004.?Polarization and abstraction of grammatical for-malism as methods for lexical disambiguation?
InProc.s of 20th Int.
Conf.
on CL, Gen?ve.Candito,  M. H., 1996.
?A principle-based hierarchicalrepresenta-tion of LTAGs?.
COLING-96.Crabb?, B., 2005.
?Grammatical development withXMG?.
LACL 05.Duchier and Thater, 1999.
?Parsing with tree descrip-tions: A constraint based approach?
In Proc.s ofNLU and Logic Programming, New Mexico.Gaiffe, B. and G. Perrier, 2004.
?Tools for parsingnatural language?
ESSLLI 2004.Guillaume B. and G. Perrier, 2008.
?InteractionGrammars?
INRIA Research Report 6621:http://hal.inria.fr/inria-00288376/Guillaume B. and J.
Le Roux and J. Marchand and G.Perrier and K. Fort and J. Planul, 2008, ?A Tool-chain for Grammarians?
CoLING 08, Manchester.Jesperson , O., 1935.
Analytic Syntax.
Allen andUwin, London.Kahane, S., 2004.
?Grammaries d?unification polari-s?es?
In 11i?me Conf.
sur le TAL, F?s, Maroc.Kahane, S., 2006.
?Polarized unification grammars?.In Proce.s of 21st Int.
Conf.
on CL and 44th An-nual Meeting of the ACL.
Sydney, Australia.Kahnemuyipour, A., 2000.
"Persian Ezafe construc-tion revisited: Evidence for modifier phrase," An-nual Conf.
of the Canadian Linguistic Association.Lambek, J., 1958.
"The mathematics of sentencestructure", The American Mathematical Monthly65: 154?170.Leopar: a parser for Interaction Grammarhttp://leopar.loria.fr/Le Roux, J. and G. Perrier, 2007.
?Mod?lisation de lacoordination dans les Grammaires d?Interaction?,Traitement Automatique des Langues (TAL 47-3)M?hooti?n, Sh, 1997.
Persian.
Routledge.Muskens and Krahmer, 1998.
?Talking about treesand truth conditions?.
In Logical Aspects of CL,Grenoble, France, Dec 1998.Nasr A., 1995.
?A formalism and a parser for lexical-ized dependency grammars?
In Proce.s of 4th Int.Workshop on Parsing Technologies, Prague.Oepen, S. and K. Netter and J. Klein, 1996.
?TSNLP-Test suites for natural language processing?.
InLinguistic Database, CSLI Lecture Notes.
Centerfor the Study of Language and information.Perrier, G., 2000.
?Interaction grammar?
Coling 2000.Perrier, G., 2007.
"A French Interaction Grammar",RANLP  2007, Borovets Bulgarie.Planul, J., 2008.
Construction d'une Grammaire d'In-teraction  pour l'anglais, Master thesis, Universit?Nancy 2, France.Tesni?re L., 1934.
?Comment construire une syntaxe?Bulletin de la Facult?
des Lettres de Strasbourg 7-12i?me.
pp.
219-229.XMG Documentationhttp/wiki.loria.fr/wiki/XMG/Documentation114
