Proceedings of the NAACL HLT Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 55?62,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsCurveship: An Interactive Fiction System for Interactive NarratingNick MontfortProgram in Writing and Humanistic StudiesMassachusetts Institute of TechnologyCambridge, MA 02139, USAnickm@nickm.comAbstractInteractive fiction (often called ?IF?)
is a ven-erable thread of creative computing that in-cludes Adventure, Zork, and the computergame The Hitchhiker?s Guide to the Galaxy aswell as innovative recent work.
These pro-grams are usually known as ?games,?
appro-priately, but they can also be rich forms oftext-based computer simulation, dialog sys-tems, and examples of computational literaryart.
Theorists of narrative have long distin-guished between the level of underlying con-tent or story (which can usefully be seen ascorresponding to the simulated world in inter-active fiction) and that of expression or dis-course (corresponding to the textual exchangebetween computer and user).
While IF devel-opment systems have offered a great deal ofpower and flexibility to author/programmersby providing a computational model of thefictional world, previous systems have notsystematically distinguished between the tell-ing and what is told.
Developers were not ableto control the content and expression levelsindependently so that they could, for instance,have a program relate events out of chrono-logical order or have it relate events from theperspective of different characters.
Curveshipis an interactive fiction system which drawson narrative theory and computational linguis-tics to allow the transformation of the narrat-ing in these ways.
This talk will brieflydescribe interactive fiction, narrative varia-tion, and how Curveship provides new capa-bilities for interactive fiction authors.1 Curveship and Its ContextsThis paper addresses those interested in aestheticand computational, work with language, whetheror not they are familiar with interactive fiction ornarrative theory.
I describe the twofold motivationbehind Curveship, explaining why I find interac-tive fiction compelling and why I find narrativevariation a worthwhile capability for a literarycomputer system.
I then sketch the way thatCurveship works, pointing to aspects of the systemthat will, I hope, interest interactive fiction authorsand also have relevance beyond interactive fiction.Several histories of interactive fiction are avail-able, including book-length (Montfort 2003) andbriefer ones (Nelson 2001, Montfort 2007a).
Thispaper focuses on how interactive fiction works,and on explaining its conventions, rather than ondetailing the history of the first interactive fiction,Adventure (written in 1976 by Will Crowther andDon Woods), the ?mainframe?
games thatfollowed, interactive fiction in the commercialmarketplace (including the many notablecontributions of Infocom), and the surge indevelopment by individual, non-commercial inter-active fiction authors.
This paper also doesn?t pro-vide any information about how to download orrun interactive fiction, and very little about how toplay it, although several FAQs and other resourcesare available online with that information (IFWiki2009, Aiken 2008, Cadre n.d.).After offering some of the motivation for thiswork, this paper provides a high-level introductionto Curveship and its capabilities.
The details onnarrative variation and on how it has been imple-mented computationally are available in the55author?s dissertation (Montfort 2007b).
While theinterface to the system has been streamlined andother changes are being made to facilitate the useof Curveship by interactive fiction authors, the ap-proach to narrative variation that is described thereremains current.2  The Interactive Fiction TraditionSince the release of the first work of interactivefiction in 1976, those working in the form havedeveloped conventions and traditions and haveundertaken many different sorts of exploration andinnovation.A snippet of a transcript from this author?sBook and Volume  (2005) gives a basic idea of whatinteraction is like:Your Apartment Building?s LobbyClean, if not homey.
The doorman waits in aPlexiglas cube that looks curiously bullet-proof.>leaveOnward, into the intentional city.
nWarecrafted it well -- built from the ground upwith security and scalability in mind, it?sfully pedestrianized but hums, almost full-size, like a city center.The night sky is completely cloudless.
Thedry warmth of the air hints at the desert thatsurrounds nTopia.Abalone & FifthYour apartment building is on the southwestcorner.
Opposite it is a windowless, blockybuilding.
On the southeast corner Pharmico-pia sprawls.
Otto?s Automat is to the north-west.A window pops up in the lower right cornerof your nLap.
In it, the uncanny red staplerwiggles its hinged head to the accompani-ment of a cheery robot voice:I see you?re outside!
Hey, the nice thingabout this city is that it uses the grid system,so you can just go NO RTH, EAST, SO UTH,or WEST, and you?ll pretty much always endup somewhere else!The window winks away.>go to the automatOtto?s AutomatSomeone, perhaps nWare?s monarchicallywealthy founder, shellf, really got into DarkCity.
There couldn?t be any other excuse forthis combination vending machine and cafe-teria, even though it may strain to look mod-ern and appetizing.
Pixelated smiley faces inan urgent red decorate everything, even theedges of the food-dispensing wall.The opportunity to avoid social contact dur-ing food selection is appealing.>buy some foodFood does seem like a good idea.
You selectsomething palatable from the food-dispensing wall and begin to consume it,face flickering with mammalian happiness.A guy you met during new employee reori-entation -- Knut, you think his name is -- fur-tively joins you as you?re dining.
He lookseven more feverish and high-strung than hedid a few days ago.?Hi.
Hi again.
Gotta tell.
Tell you some-thing.
?Here, the player character ?
the one controlled bythe player via textual commands ?
begins in thelobby of his apartment building.
The player thentypes a command for that character to ?leave,?which he does, ending up outside at an intersec-tion.
Because the player character happens to becarrying his laptop computer, which is turned on,an annoying animated agent appears and dispensessome advice.
The next command, ?go to the auto-mat,?
directs the character to enter a differentbuilding.
(?Go northwest,?
?walk northwest,??northwest,?
or simply ?nw?
would have all donethe same thing.)
Finally, the character is com-manded to ?buy some food,?
which the characterdoes ?
something that is only possible because thecharacter has his electronic cash device, isn?t sated,and is in place where food is sold.
Although theseare not dramatically interesting actions, they, in56this game and in others, can be part of figuring outthe nature of an unusual world.Of course, not every input works as smoothlyas these did in this context.
Actions often work ifthey are warranted by the situation in some way; so?buy some food?
is appropriate in an automatwhile ?donate my organs to science?
isn?t.
A char-acter can be commanded to walk in a particulardirection, or to enter a building that is nearby, butnot, usually, to ?go to Tangiers.?
And there is usu-ally no need for fine-grained positioning or de-scribing the manner in which an action is done, soinstead of issuing the command ?hop spryly overto the coffee table?
to prepare for setting downone?s mug, it?s fine to just go directly to typing?put my mug on the coffee table.
?Moving a character around using compass di-rections is a very notable convention originatingwith Adventure, although there were other ways toget around in that game.
However it?s done, trav-ersing a virtual space is very important to interac-tive fiction.There are four important characteristics of in-teractive fiction that make it interesting from a re-search standpoint as well as from the standpoint ofpoetics.
A work of interactive fiction is:?
A limited domain that serves as a simu-lated ?microworld.?
It has a complete model of thethings that can be manipulated in the simulationand can be usefully talked about.?
A dialog system.
Natural language is pro-vided as output, and the system accepts commandsthat, although simple and short, are instances ofEnglish text.?
A computer game, providing enjoymentand fun.
Although not the preeminent form ofcomputer entertainment today, as it was around1980, interactive fiction is something that manypeople find enjoyable and interact with for its ownsake.?
A form of aesthetic expression and literaryart.
As with any form or medium, only a few use asignificant amount of this potential.
But the com-putational, literary nature of interactive fictiongives it the capability to do aesthetic work thatcould not otherwise be done.Since many people don?t realize that interactivefiction extends beyond the cave setting and fantasygenre, it?s worth mentioning a few examples ofwork from the last few years, work that gives anidea of the range of interactive fiction today ?
allof which is available for free download and easilyfound online:Anchorhead, by Michael Gentry, 1998: An ex-pansive interactive fiction with deep secrets andaction that runs over several days, inspired in toneand style by H. P. Lovecraft.Bad Machine,  by Dan Shovitz, 1998: Manifest-ing itself as confusing a mix of status reports, errormessages, this interactive fiction takes place in astrange robot-run factory.Narcolepsy,  by Adam Cadre, 2003: A seem-ingly contemporary, ordinary interactive fictionthat branches hilariously into strange genre scenar-ios.Slouching toward Bedlam,  by Star C. Fosterand Daniel Ravipinto, 2003: A steampunk sciencefiction piece set in an asylum and involving tech-nological and kabbalistic themes.Savoir-Faire,  by Emily Short, 2002: The returnto a childhood home provides opportunities to re-member the past and requires that the player figureout an intricate system of sympathetic magic.S pider and Web,  by Andrew Plotkin, 1998: Ascience-fiction spy thriller that has the player reen-act past events to the satisfaction of an interroga-tor.Interactive fiction as it exists now is a type ofvirtual reality, a simulation of not only a space andthe characters and things in that space but also ofphysical and metaphysical laws that obtain in aworld.
Furthermore, it?s a virtual reality that workswell, one in which conventions have evolved aboutthe level of abstraction and the types of commandsthat will work.
An effective way of interacting hasbeen negotiated.Although more could be done to better simulatea world and to better understand language in inter-active fiction, the Curveship project has a differentgoal.
Curveship is being developed to add to inter-active fiction?s well-established capability forsimulation a new capability for narration, one thatwill allow the telling to be parametrically varied.3  Narrative VariationFor more than three decades, interactive fictionprograms have simulated fictional worlds.
By al-lowing control over settings, characters, and the57incidents that happen, they have provided very use-ful facilities.
However, literary works are not pow-erful and compelling merely because of whathappens in them.
They also rely on these eventsbeing told in an interesting way, on the differenttypes of narrating that can be done.
The interactivefiction system I am describing, Curveship, usesnatural language generation to allow the narratingto be varied parametrically.
To understand whythis is a significant capability, it is worth turning tonon-digital novels, stories, and narrative poems tosee how they accomplish their effects.We may consider different novels, stories, andpoems to be ?great?
?
powerful, affecting, trans-forming, deeply pleasing to read ?
but whicheverones we prefer, it is unlikely that we appreciatethem simply because of what happens in them.
Theway these events are narrated is also important.
Aparaphrase or summary is generally not consideredto be as interesting as is a great work of literature,even an ancient one.
A timeline of events wouldhardly compare to The Odyssey , in which Odys-seus tells some of the events himself, in which heweeps as he hears a bard, who does not knowOdysseus?s identity, relating the events of the Tro-jan War and his own exploits to him.
This is not tosay that there can be no interesting retellings ofThe Odyssey,  only that any telling will be interest-ing or not based on how the narrating is done.The study of narrating, of how the same under-lying events can be told in different ways, has beenundertaken systematically in the field of narrativetheory or narratology , in which the distinction be-tween story/content and discourse, between thatwhich is narrated the narrative itself, has beencentral.
Specifically, the model that G?rard Genettepresents in Figures III,  translated into English asNarrative Discourse (Genette 1980) and later re-vised in Narrative Discourse Revisited (Genette1988), has provided the basis for narrative varia-tion in  Curveship.A variant of a simple story given as an exampleby E. M. Foster is represented in figure 1.
Thereare five underlying events: The death of the king,the grieving of the queen, the death of the queen,the usurping of the throne by a clown, and thelaughing of the jester.
These can be told one afteranother in their chronological order, as the top partof the diagram shows.
But it is also possible to nar-rate the same underlying contest by saying ?Theking and queen died.
The jester laughed ?
afterthe clown usurped the throne.?
This telling repre-sented in the bottom part of the diagram, and cor-responds to changes in three of Genette?scategories: frequency  (whether there is one tellingper event, one for several events, or several for oneevent), speed  (how rapidly or slowly events arerelated), and order (the sequence in which eventsare represented as compared to their chronologicalorder in the story world).
In this case, the king andqueen?s death are both narrated with a singlestatement, a change in frequency; the queen?s griefis skipped over as rapidly as is possible and thusomitted entirely, a change in speed; and theclown?s usurping of the throne is mentioned last,after the jester?s laughter, which it apparently oc-casioned ?
a change in order.Genette describes several other categories ofvariation, two of which are important for this pa-per.
The time of narrating  describes the temporalrelationship between the narrating and the eventsof the story.
For instance, in ?I was driving downthe road and it started raining frogs?
the narratingis happening after the events, but a different (andstill perfectly plausible) telling of this story, ?SoI?m driving down the road and all of the sudden itstarts raining frogs,?
the narrating and the eventstake place at the same time, giving a more immedi-ate feel to the narrative.
We could gloss this differ-ent as one of ?past tense?
and ?present tense,?
butthis simple reference to grammar breaks down as astory gets more complex.
If the narrator-characterwere to continue by noting ?I had just had thewiper blades replaced?
in the first case and ?I justhad the wiper blades replaced,?
the story would noFigure 1.
The same underlying events can be repre-sented in a straightforward chronological way (above)or with different frequency,  speed, and order (below).58longer be entirely in the simple present or simplepast.
The important difference here, although it isreflected in the grammar, is actually a narrativeone.Focalization, briefly, describes the way that theinformation available to the narrator is regulated.
Ifthe narrative follows a character and tells us onlywhat that character knows, it is focalized by thatcharacter.
Whether the character is referred to inthe main level of the narrative as ?I,?
in the thirdperson (as in a typical Hemingway story), or evenas ?you?
(the standard case in interactive fiction) isa separate matter.
Specifically, that has to do withwho the narrator and naratee are and if there arecharacters within the story who have this role.4  The Architecture of CurveshipState-of-the-art IF systems (including TADS 3and Inform 7) have innovated in many ways, butthey are similar in offering two main modules, the?parser,?
which deals with recognizing intendedactions based on typed user input, and the rest ofthe program, which handles both the simulation ofthe IF world and the narrating of events anddescription of existents in that world.Curveship has a parser as well (the Recognizer)but, as shown in figure 2, it is further separatedinto modules that deal with different functions theinteractive fiction system and program have tocarry out.
Significantly, it has separate Simulatorand Narrator modules.
The Simulator is potentiallyindependent of the human language of a particularinteractive fiction, although Curveship has onlybeen implemented in English as yet.
It updates theworld models to reflect the new state of the under-lying simulated world and the new theories thatcharacters have about this world.
Then, the Narra-tor module, which is quite specific to a particularhuman language, builds a narrative reply using aFigure 2.
The architecture of Curveship.
Each module is res ponsible for one more or less complex function; forinstance, the Joker allows for save, restore, restart, and similar manipulation of the game state.
The Simulatordetermines what events transpire in the IF world, while the Narrator deals with how to represent those events.59world model and a plan for narrating.
The Simula-tor is the only module that updates the world mod-els.
Similarly, the discourse model is written onlyby the Recognizer (which updates this model toreflect the user?s contributions to the discourse)and the Narrator (which produces the system?scontributions to the discourse and updates themodel to reflect these).Curveship?s somewhat unusual name is meantto call attention to how the system models the es-sential qualities of variation ?
the curve of a storythrough its telling ?
just as friendship and author-ship represent the essence of being a friend andauthor.1 The word ?curveship?
was coined by HartCrane (1899-1932) in the last line of his poem ?ToBrooklyn Bridge,?
in which he addresses thebridge: ?And of the curveship lend a myth to God.
?5  Order and Time of NarratingThe order of events as narrated does not have tocorrespond to the order of events in a fictional,simulated, or historical world.
Genette representsthe order of events in the narrating as a sequqnce,of the form ?3451267,?
but he also notes thatevents can be reordered in many different ways,for different purposes and to different effects.
Forinstance, in ?3451267,?
the earliest two events,?12,?
may have been narrated as what is com-monly called flashback (which Genette calls ananalepsis).
But perhaps not: perhaps ?345,?
?12,?and ?67?
all fell into different categories, and thenarration was done according to these categories?
using syllepsis, in Genette?s system.
Or, per-haps the events have been jumbled at random toconfuse the reader about their temporal relation-ship; this is called achrony.
Cue words and tensewill be used differently in these three cases, so?3451267?
is not an adequate representation whentext is to be generated, rather than just analyzed.Instead of representing the order of events in thenarrative as a sequence, Curveship uses an orderedtree representation called a reply structure.
It de-scribes not only the sequence of events but alsowhich level each event is at and what its relation-ship is to the level above.
To determine the tense,the system uses a theory that relates how three1 This may seem like an obscure name, but at least it?s betterthan the name the system previously had, during the mainphase of my research work: ?nn.?
People often couldn?t evenidentify this as a word, whether it was spoken or written.points in time ?
speech time (S), reference time(R), and event time (E) ?
correspond to a particu-lar grammatical tense (Reichenbach 1947).
Eventtime is supplied by the simulator; the other twotimes are determined based on the plan for narrat-ing and the reply structure as text generation aredone.
The reply structure representation allows fordifferent orderings to be composed, so, for in-stance, within a flashforward, the events can bejumbled achronously, and within each syllepticcategory the narration can be done in a differenttemporal way.6  FocalizationCurveship implements a system for changing fo-calization based on Marie Laure-Ryan?s concept ofa Fictional Actual World which the reader re-centers upon (Ryan 2001).
In the formulation ofthis concept for interactive fiction, it is useful toconsider an Interactive Fiction Actual World thatFigure 3.
The reply structures corresponding to threedifferent orderings, all of which would look the sameif a simple sequence were used as a representation.60represents what is actual, or real, to the charactersin the game.
Each character, then ?
each potentialfocalizer ?
has his or her own world model, a the-ory of this world which may be mistaken and al-most certainly is partial.
The Narrator, then, nevereven sees the underlying simulation, but insteadrelates events based on the focalizer?s current the-ory of the world.Because the Narrator may tell about things thathappened before the current state of the world,each focalizer maintains not only a current theoryof the world but also a history of how the worldappeared in the past.7  Text Generation in CurveshipThe Narrator, which does text generation in Curve-ship, is organized into a standard three-stage pipe-line.
First comes the highest-level operation ofcontent selection and ordering, which is done bythe Reply Planner (essentially a document planner,but here part of a discourse is being planned).Then, the Microplanner determines the grammati-cal specifics of the output based on the plan fornarrating.
Finally,  the Realizer accepts the para-graph proposals from the Microplanner and pro-duces a string.The problem of authoring for generation is adifficult one.
Interactive fiction authors would liketo be able to write as they do now, simply associat-ing strings with objects and events.
This represen-tation is not suitable for the generation task,however.
Something more general is needed toallow narrative variation to be automatically pro-duced.Advanced research and commercial text genera-tion system use highly abstract representations ofsentences (different ones for each system) to allowtext to be flexibly transformed, aggregated, andchanged in tense, aspect, and person.
While thepower of this approach is unquestionable, takingthis direction is also unsuitable, because it wouldrequire a tremendous investment on the part ofauthors, who would spend perhaps a hundred timesthe time and effort to create the same textual out-put that they could jot off in the typical interactivefiction system.
It is unlikely that anyone wouldundertake this voluntarily, and, if people did, itwould almost certainly disrupt the authorship proc-ess.As a compromise, Curvseship uses a string-with-slots representation that offers significantflexibility in generation without the extreme com-plexity of most sentence representations.
It allowsauthors to ?cheat?
and indicate that somethingshould be treated as an entity in the discourse evenif there is no model of it in the simulation.
For in-stance, the text at the beginning of Adventure canbe generated from the following strings:?S_FC V_stand_PROG at the_end ofa_road beforea_small_brick_building?
?a_small_stream V_flow_S out ofthe_building and down a_gully?The first slot, S_FC, indicates that the focaliz-ing character is to be named there (pronominalizedif appropriate) and will be the subject of the sen-tence.
The next, V_stand_PROG, says that the verb?stand?
is to appear in the progressive.
It is notnecessary to specify the number; without such aspecification, the verb will agree in number withthe subject.
The rest of th e first string looks ordi-nary, except that noun phrases have been con-nected with underscores.
This indicates that theyshould be treated as entities in the discourse eventhough they are not simulated: The system will, forinstance, output ?a road?
the first time around and,since the road is then given in the discourse, it willFigure 4.
The Narrator module uses a standardthree-stage pipeline for text generation.61output ?the road?
afterwards.
Finally, in the secondstring, there is the slot V_flow_S.
The subject ofthe sentence is not indicated, but it is not neces-sary, since the ?_S?
indicates that the verb ?flow?should be output in the singular.Depending on the plan for narrating and thestate of the discourse, this can produce:You are standing at the end of a road before asmall brick building.
A small stream flows outof the building and down a gully.As well as:You were standing at the end of the road be-fore the small brick building.
The small streamflowed out of the building and down the gully.Along with more exotic strings that result fromunusual narrative settings and the use of text fil-ters.ReferencesAiken, Jim.
?Getting Started with Interactive Fiction,?2008.
http://www.musicwor ds.net/if/if_getting_started.htmCadre, Adam.
?Interactive Fiction ?
Getting Started.
?http://adamcadre.ac/content/if.txtGenette, G?rard.
Narrative Discourse: An Essay inMethod.
Trans.
J. E. Lewin.
Ithaca, NY:  CornellUniversity Press.
1980.Genette, G?rard.
Narrative Discourse Revisited.
Trans.J.
E. Lewin.
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.1988.IFWiki.
?Interactive Fiction FAQ,?
2009.http://ifwiki.org/index.php/FAQMontfort, Nick.
Twisty Little Passages: An Approach toInteractive Fiction .
The MIT Press, 2003.Montfort, Nick.
?Generating Narrative Variation in In-teractive Fiction.?
Dissertation, University of Penn-sylvania, 2007a.Montfort, Nick.
?Riddle Machines: The History andNature of Interactive Fiction.?
In A Companion toDigital Literary Studies, pp.
267?282.
Editors, RaySiemens and Susan Schreibman.
Basil Blackwell,2007b.Nelson, Graham.
?A short hist ory of interactive fiction.
?The Inform Designer?s Manual  section 46, 4 th edi-tion, 2001. http://www.inform-fiction.org/manual/html/s46.htmlReichenbach, Hans.
Elements of Symbolic Logic.
NewYork: Macmillan.
1947.Ryan, Marie-Laure.
Narrative as Virtual Reality.
Balti-more: Johns Hopkins University Press.
2001.62
