Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 178?181,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPThe SILT and FlaReNet International Collaboration for InteroperabilityNancy IdeDepartment of Computer ScienceVassar CollegePoughkeepsie, New York USAide@cs.vassar.eduJames PustejovskyDepartment of Computer ScienceBrandeis UniversityWaltham, Massachusetts USAjamesp@cs.brandeis.eduNicoletta CalzolariCNR-ILCPisa, Italyglottolo@ilc.cnr.itClaudia SoriaCNR-ILCPisa, Italyclaudia.soria@ilc.cnr.itAbstractTwo major projects in the U.S. and Eu-rope have joined in a collaboration to worktoward achieving interoperability amonglanguage resources.
In the U.S., a projectentitled ?Sustainable Interoperability forLanguage Technology?
(SILT) has beenfunded by the National Science Founda-tion under the INTEROP program, and inEurope, FLaReNet Fostering LanguageResources Network has been fundedby the European Commission under theeContentPlus framework.
This interna-tional collaborative effort involves mem-bers of the language processing commu-nity and others working in related ar-eas to build consensus regarding the shar-ing of data and technologies for languageresources and applications, to work to-wards interoperability of existing data,and, where possible, to promote standardsfor annotation and resource building.
Inaddition to broad-based US and Europeanparticipation, we are seeking the partici-pation of colleagues in Asia.
This pre-sentation describing the projects and theirgoals will, we hope, serve to involve mem-bers of the community who may not havebeen aware of the effort before, in particu-lar colleagues in Asia.1 OverviewOne of today?s greatest challenges is the develop-ment of language processing capabilities that willenable easy and natural access to computing facil-ities and information.
Because natural languageprocessing (NLP) research relies heavily on suchresources to provide training data to develop lan-guage models and optimize statistical algorithms,language resources?including (usually large) col-lections of language data and linguistic descrip-tions in machine readable form, together withtools and systems (lemmatizers, parsers, summa-rizers, information extractors, speech recognizers,annotation development software, etc.)?
are criti-cal to this development.Over the past two decades, the NLP commu-nity has invested substantial effort in the creationof computational lexicons and compendia of se-mantic information (e.g., framenets, ontologies,knowledge bases) together with language corporaannotated for all varieties of linguistic features,which comprise the central resource for currentNLP research.
However, the lack of a thorough,well-articulated longer-term vision for languageprocessing research has engendered the creation ofa disjointed set of language resources and tools,which exist in a wide variety of (often incom-patible) formats, are often unusable with systemsother than those for which they were developed,and utilize linguistic categories derived from dif-ferent theoretical frameworks.
Furthermore, theseexpensive investments are often produced only forone of several relatively isolated subfields (e.g.,NLP, information retrieval, machine translation,speech processing), or even worse, for one appli-cation in one subfield.
In addition, the high cost ofresource development has prevented the creationof reliable, large-scale language data and anno-tations for many phenomena, and for languagesother than English.Interoperability of resources, tools, and frame-works has recently come to be recognized as per-haps the most pressing current need for languageprocessing research.
Interoperability is especially178critical at this time because of the widely recog-nized need to create and merge annotations andinformation at different linguistic levels in orderto study interactions and interleave processing atthese different levels.
It has also become criti-cal because new data and tools for emerging andstrategic languages such as Chinese and Arabic aswell as minor languages are in the early stages ofdevelopment.Two major projects in the U.S. and Europe havejoined in a collaboration to work toward achiev-ing interoperability among language resources.
Inthe U.S., a project entitled ?Sustainable Interoper-ability for Language Technology?
(SILT) has beenfunded by the National Science Foundation underthe INTEROP program, and in Europe, FLaReNetFostering Language Resources Network has beenfunded by the European Commission under theeContentPlus framework.
This international col-laborative effort involves members of the lan-guage processing community and others workingin related areas to build consensus regarding thesharing of data and technologies for language re-sources and applications, to work towards inter-operability of existing data, and, where possible,to promote standards for annotation and resourcebuilding.
In addition to broad-based US and Eu-ropean participation, we are seeking the participa-tion of colleagues in Asia.To ensure full community involvement and con-solidation of effort, SILT and FLaReNet are estab-lishing ties with major ongoing projects and con-sortia, including the International Standards Orga-nization TC37 SC4 (Language Resource Manage-ment)1, The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C),the Text Encoding Initiative, the ACL Special In-terest Group on Annotation (SIGANN)2, and oth-ers.
The ultimate goal is to create an Open Lan-guage Infrastructure (OLI) that will provide freeand open access to resources, tools, and other in-formation that support work in the field, in order tofacilitate collaboration, accessibility for all mem-bers of the community, and convergence towardinteroperability.The following sections outline the goals of SILTand FLaReNet.1http://www.tc37sc4.org2http://www.cs.vassar.edu/sigann2 SILTThe creation and use of language resources spansseveral related but relatively isolated disciplines,including NLP, information retrieval, machinetranslation, speech, and the semantic web.
SILT?sgoal is to turn existing, fragmented technology andresources developed within these groups in rela-tive isolation into accessible, stable, and interop-erable resources that can be readily reused acrossseveral fields.The major activities of the effort are:?
carefully surveying the field to identify theresources, tools, and frameworks in order toexamine what exists and what needs to bedeveloped, and to identify those areas forwhich interoperability would have the broad-est impact in advancing research and devel-opment and significant applications depen-dent on them;?
identifying the major efforts on standards de-velopment and interoperable system designtogether with existing and developing tech-nologies, and examining ways to leveragetheir results to define an interoperablity in-frastructure for both tools and data;?
analyzing innovative methods and techniquesfor the creation and maintenance of languageresources in order to reduce the high costs,increase productivity, and enable rapid devel-opment of resources for languages that cur-rently lack them;?
implementing proposed annotation standardsand best practices in corpora currently underdevelopment (e.g., American National Cor-pus3, TimeBank4) to evaluate their viabilityand feed into the process of further standardsdevelopment, testing, and use of interoper-ability frameworks (e.g., GATE5, UIMA6)and implementation of processing modules,and distributing all software, data, and anno-tations.?
ensuring the broadest possible communityengagement in the development of consensusand agreement on strategies, priorities, and3http://www.anc.org4http://www.timeml.org/site/timebank/timebank.html5http://gate.ac.uk6http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/uima/179best approaches for achieving broad interop-erability by means of sessions, open meet-ings, and special workshops at major confer-ences in the field, together with active main-tenance of and involvement in open web fo-rums and Wikis;?
providing the technical expertise necessary toturn consensus and agreement into robust in-teroperability frameworks along with the ap-propriate tools and resources for their broaduse and implementation by means of tutorialsand training workshops, especially for under-graduate and graduate students in the field.3 FLaReNetThe multilingual Europe urgently needs languagetechnologies in order to bridge its language bar-riers.
In order to achieve better quality and fastdevelopment of language technologies that seam-lessly work on all devices, for spoken and writtenlanguage alike, the European scenario now needs acoherent and unified effort.
The demand for cross-lingual technologies is pressing, the expectationsare high, and at the same time, the field is suf-fering from fragmentation, lack of vision and di-rection.
The main objective of FLaReNet is tosteer the process that in the near future will de-fine the actors, the overall direction and the prac-tical forms of collaboration in language technolo-gies and their ?raw material?, language resources.Under this respect, the goals of FLaReNet lie ata higher level than those of SILT, as they are ori-ented towards consolidating a community arounda number of key topics that, in the end, will allownetworking of language technology professionalsand their clients, as well as easy sharing of data,corpora, language resources and tools.From this perspective, FLaReNet has threemain lines of action:The creation and mobilization of a unifiedand committed community in the field of Lan-guage Resources and Technologies.
To this end,FLaReNet is bringing together leading experts ofresearch institutions, academies, companies, fund-ing agencies, public and private bodies, both atEuropean and international level, with the spe-cific purpose of creating consensus around short,medium and long-term strategic objectives.
TheNetwork is currently composed of around 200 in-dividuals belonging to academia, research insti-tutes, industries and government.The identification of a set of priority themeson which to stimulate action, under the form of aroadmap for Language Resources and Technolo-gies.
In order to avoid scattered or conflicting ef-forts, the major players in the field of LanguageResources and Technologies need to consensuallywork together and indicate a clear direction of ac-tion and a shared policy for the next years.
Thiswill take the form of identification of priorities ofintervention as well as short, medium, and long-term strategic objectives at all levels, from re-search directions to implementation choices, fromdistribution and access policies to the landscapeof languages, domain and modalities covered byLanguage Resources and Technologies.The elaboration of a blueprint of priority ar-eas for actions in the field and a coherent set ofrecommendations for the policy-makers (fundingagencies especially), the business community andthe public at large.
Whatever action cannot be im-plemented on a long term without the help of thenecessary financial and political framework to sus-tain them.
This is even most true for actions re-garding Language Resources that typically implya sustained effort at national level.
To this end,the FLaReNet Network will propose the prioritythemes under the form of consensual recommen-dations and a plan of action for EC Member States,other European-wide decision makers, companies,as well as non-EU and International organizations.The following Thematic Areas are currentlycovered by FLaReNet:?
The Chart for the area of LRs and LT in itsdifferent dimensions?
Methods and models for LR building, reuse,interlinking, and maintenance?
Harmonisation of formats and standards?
Definition of evaluation and validation proto-cols and procedures?
Methods for the automatic construction andprocessing of Language ResourcesFLaReNet builds upon years of research and de-velopment in the field of standards and languageresources, as well as on the achievements (bothin terms of results and community awareness),of past EU projects such as EAGLES7, ISLE8,7http://www.ilc.cnr.it/EAGLES/home.html8http://www.ilc.cnr.it/EAGLES/isle/ISLE Home Page.htm180INTERA9, and LIRICS10.
Close collaboration isalso established with many relevant ongoing EUprojects, such as CLARIN11.9http://www.elda.org/intera10http://lirics.loria.fr/11http://www.clarin.eu181
