Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Multiword Expressions, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 23?30,Suntec, Singapore, 6 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPExploiting Translational Correspondences for Pattern-Independent MWEIdentificationSina Zarrie?Department of LinguisticsUniversity of Potsdam, Germanysina@ling.uni-potsdam.deJonas KuhnDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Potsdam, Germanykuhn@ling.uni-potsdam.deAbstractBased on a study of verb translations inthe Europarl corpus, we argue that a widerange of MWE patterns can be identified intranslations that exhibit a correspondencebetween a single lexical item in the sourcelanguage and a group of lexical items inthe target language.
We show that thesecorrespondences can be reliably detectedon dependency-parsed, word-aligned sen-tences.
We propose an extraction methodthat combines word alignment with syn-tactic filters and is independent of thestructural pattern of the translation.1 IntroductionParallel corpora have proved to be a valuable re-source not only for statistical machine translation,but also for crosslingual induction of morphologi-cal, syntactic and semantic analyses (Yarowsky etal., 2001; Dyvik, 2004).
In this paper, we proposean approach to the identification of multiword ex-pressions (MWEs) that exploits translational cor-respondences in a parallel corpus.
We will con-sider in translations of the following type:(1) DerTheRatCouncilsollteshouldunsereourPositionpositionberu?cksichtigen.consider.
(2) The Council should take account of our position.This sentence pair has been taken from theGerman - English section of the Europarl corpus(Koehn, 2005).
It exemplifies a translational cor-respondence between an English MWE take ac-count of and a German simplex verb beru?cksichti-gen.
In the following, we refer to such correspon-dences as one-to-many translations.
Based on astudy of verb translations in Europarl, we will ex-plore to what extent one-to-many translations pro-vide evidence for MWE realization in the targetlanguage.
It will turn out that crosslingual corre-spondences realize a wide range of different lin-guistic patterns that are relevant for MWE iden-tification, but that they pose problems to auto-matic word alignment.
We propose an extractionmethod that combines distributional word align-ment with syntactic filters.
We will show thatthese correspondences can be reliably detectedon dependency-parsed, wordaligned sentences andare able to identify various MWE patterns.In a monolingual setting, the task of MWE ex-traction is usually conceived of as a lexical as-sociation problem where distributional measuresmodel the syntactic and semantic idiosyncracy ex-hibited by MWEs, e.g.
(Pecina, 2008).
This ap-proach generally involves two main steps: 1) theextraction of a candidate list of potential MWEs,often constrained by a particular target patternof the detection method, like verb particle con-structions (Baldwin and Villavicencio, 2002) orverb PP combinations (Villada Moiro?n and Tiede-mann, 2006), 2) the ranking of this candidate listby an appropriate assocation measure.The crosslingual MWE identification wepresent in this paper is, a priori, independentof any specific association measure or syntacticpattern.
The translation scenario allows us toadopt a completely data-driven definition of whatconstitutes an MWE: Given a parallel corpus,we propose to consider those tokens in a targetlanguage as MWEs which correspond to a singlelexical item in the source language.
The intuitionis that if a group of lexical items in one lan-guage can be realized as a single item in anotherlanguage, it can be considered as some kind oflexically fixed entity.
By this means, we willnot approach the MWE identification problemby asking for a given list of candidates whetherthese are MWEs or not.
Instead, we will ask fora given list of lexical items in a source languagewhether there exists a one-to-many translation forthis item in a target language (and whether these23one-to-many translations correspond to MWEs).This strategy offers a straightforward solution tothe interpretation problem: As the translation canbe related to the meaning of the source item andto its other translations in the target language, theinterpretation is independent of the expression?stransparency.
This solution has its limitationscompared to other approaches that need to auto-matically establish the degree of compositionalityof a given MWE candidate.
However, for manyNLP applications, coarse-grained knowledgeabout the semantic relation between a widerange of MWEs and their corresponding atomicrealization is already very useful.In this work, we therefore focus on a generalmethod of MWE identification that captures thevarious patterns of translational correspondencesthat can be found in parallel corpora.
Our exper-iments described in section 3 show that one-to-many translations should be extracted from syn-tactic configurations rather than from unstructuredsets of aligned words.
This syntax-driven methodis less dependent on frequency distributions in agiven corpus, but is based on the intuition thatmonolingual idiosyncracies like MWE realizationof an entity are not likely to be mirrored in anotherlanguage (see section 4 for discussion).Our goal in this paper is twofold: First, we wantto investigate to what extent one-to-many transla-tional correspondences can serve as an empiricalbasis for MWE identification.
To this end, Sec-tion 2 presents a corpus-based study of the rela-tion between one-to-many translations and MWEsthat we carried out on a translation gold standard.Second, we investigate methods for the automaticdetection of complex lexical correspondences fora given parallel corpus.
Therefore, Section 3 eval-uates automatic word alignments against our goldstandard and gives a method for high-precisionone-to-many translation detection that relies onsyntactic filters, in addition to word-alignments.2 Multiword Translations as MWEsThe idea to exploit one-to-many translations forthe identification of MWE candidates has not re-ceived much attention in the literature.
Thus, it isnot a priori clear what can be expected from trans-lational correspondences with respect to MWEidentification.
To corroborate the intuitions intro-duced in the last section, we carried out a corpus-based study that aims to discover linguistic pat-Verb 1-1 1-n n-1 n-n Noanheben (v1) 53.5 21.2 9.2 16 325bezwecken (v2) 16.7 51.3 0.6 31.3 150riskieren (v3) 46.7 35.7 0.5 17 182verschlimmern (v4) 30.2 21.5 28.6 44.5 275Table 1: Proportions of types of translational cor-respondences (token-level) in our gold standard.terns exhibited by one-to-many translations.We constructed a gold standard covering all En-glish translations of four German verb lemmas ex-tracted from the Europarl Corpus.
These verbssubcategorize for a nominative subject and an ac-cusative object and are in the middle frequencylayer (around 200 occurrences).
We extracted allsentences in Europarl with occurences of theselemmas and their automatic word alignments pro-duced by GIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2003).
Thesealignments were manually corrected on the basisof the crosslingual word alignment guidelines de-velopped by (Grac?a et al, 2008).For each of the German source lemmas, ourgold standard records four translation categories:one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-one, many-to-many translations.
Table 1 shows the distributionof these categories for each verb.
Strikingly, thefour verbs show very different proportions con-cerning the types of their translational correspon-dences.
Thus, while the German verb anheben(en.
increase) seems to have a frequent parallelrealization, the verbs bezwecken (en.
intend to)or verschlimmern (en.
aggravate) tend to be real-ized by more complex phrasal translations.
In anycase, the percentage of one-to-many translations isrelatively high which corroborates our hypothesisthat parallel corpora constitute a very interestingresource for data-driven MWE discovery.A closer look at the one-to-many translations re-veals that these cover a wide spectrum of MWEphenomena traditionally considered in the liter-ature, as well as constructions that one wouldusually not regard as an MWE.
Below, we willshortly illustrate the different classes of one-to-many translations we found in our gold standard.Morphological variations: This type of one-to-many translations is mainly due to non-parallel re-alization of tense.
It?s rather irrelevant from anMWE perspective, but easy to discover and filterautomatically.24(3) SieTheyverschlimmernaggravatediethe?Ubel.misfortunes.
(4) Their action is aggravating the misfortunes.Verb particle combinations: A typical MWEpattern, treated for instance in (Baldwin andVillavicencio, 2002).
It further divides into trans-parent and non-transparent combinations, the lat-ter is illustrated below.
(5) DerTheAusschusscommittebezweckt,intends,dentheInstitutioneninstitutionseinapolitischespoliticalInstrumentinstrumentanatdietheHandhandzutogeben.give.
(6) The committee set out to equip the institutions with apolitical instrument.Verb preposition combinations: While thisclass isn?t discussed very often in the MWE lit-erature, it can nevertheless be considered as an id-iosyncratic combination of lexical items.
Sag et al(2002) propose an analysis within an MWE frame-work.
(7) SieTheywerdenwilldentheTreibhauseffektgreen house effectverschlimmern.aggravate.
(8) They will add to the green house effect.Light verb constructions (LVCs): This is themost frequent pattern in our gold standard.
It ac-tually subsumes various subpatterns depending onwhether the light verbs complement is realized as anoun, adjective or PP.
Generally, LVCs are syntac-tically and semantically more flexible than otherMWE types, such that our gold standard containsvariants of LVCs with similar, potentially mod-ified adjectives or nouns, as in the example be-low.
However, it can be considered an idiosyn-cratic combination since the LVCs exhibit specificlexical restrictions (Sag et al, 2002).
(9) IchIchwerdewilldietheSachethingnuronlynochjustverschlimmern.aggravate.
(10) I am just making things more difficult.Idioms: This MWE type is probably the mostdiscussed in the literature due to its semantic andsyntactic idiosyncracy.
It?s not very frequent inour gold standard which may be mainly due to itslimited size and the source items we chose.
(11) SieTheybezweckenintenddietheUmgestaltungconversioninintoeineazivilecivilNation.nation.
(12) They have in mind the conversion into a civil nation.v1 v2 v3 v4Ntype 22 (26) 41 (47) 26 (35) 17 (24)V Part 22.7 4.9 0.0 0.0V Prep 36.4 41.5 3.9 5.9LVC 18.2 29.3 88.5 88.2Idiom 0.0 2.4 0.0 0.0Para 36.4 24.3 11.5 23.5Table 2: Proportions of MWE types per lemmaParaphrases: From an MWE perspective, para-phrases are the most problematic and challengingtype of translational correspondence in our goldstandard.
While the MWE literature typically dis-cusses the distinction between collocations andMWEs, the boarderline between paraphrases andMWEs is not really clear.
On the hand, para-phrases, as we classified them here, are transparentcombinations of lexical items, like in the exam-ple below ensure that something increases.
How-ever, semantically, these transparent combinationscan also be rendered by an atomic expression in-crease.
A further problem raised by paraphrases isthat they often involve translational shifts (Cyrus,2006).
These shifts are hard to identify automat-ically and present a general challenge for seman-tic processing of parallel corpora.
An example isgiven below.
(13) WirWebrauchenneedbesserebetterZusammenarbeit,cooperationumtodietheRu?ckzahlungenrepayments.OBJanzuheben .increase.
(14) We need greater cooperation in this respect to ensurethat repayments increase .Table 2 displays the proportions of the MWEcategories for the number of types of one-to-manycorrespondences in our gold standard.
We filteredthe types due to morphological variations only (theoverall number of types is indicated in brackets).Note that some types in our gold standard fall intoseveral categories, e.g.
they combine a verb prepo-sition with a verb particle construction.
For allof the verbs, the number of types belonging tocore MWE categories largely outweighs the pro-portion of paraphrases.
As we already observedin our analysis of general translation categories,here again, the different verb lemmas show strik-ing differences with respect to their realization inEnglish translations.
For instance, anheben (en.increase) or bezwecken (en.
intend) are frequently25translated with verb particle or preposition combi-nations, while the other verbs are much more of-ten translated by means of LVCs.
Also, the morespecific LVC patterns differ largely among theverbs.
While verschlimmern (en.
aggravate) hasmany different adjectival LVC correspondences,the translations of riskieren (en.
risk) are predomi-nantly nominal LVCs.
The fact that we found veryfew idioms in our gold standard may be simplyrelated to our arbitrary choice of German sourceverbs that do not have an English idiom realiza-tion (see our experiment on a random set of verbsin Section 3.3).In general, one-to-many translational corre-spondences seem to provide a very fruitful groundfor the large-scale study of MWE phenomena.However, their reliable detection in parallel cor-pora is far from trivial, as we will show in thenext section.
Therefore, we will not further in-vestigate the classification of MWE patterns inthe rest of the paper, but concentrate on the high-precision detection of one-to-many translations.Such a pattern-independent identification methodis crucial for the further data-driven study of one-to-many translations in parallel corpora.3 Multiword Translation DetectionThis section is devoted to the problem of high-precision detection of one-to-many translations.Section 3.1 describes an evaluation of automaticword alignments against our gold standard.
Insection 3.2, we describe a method that extractsloosely aligned syntactic configurations whichyields much more promising results.3.1 One-to-many AlignmentsTo illustrate the problem of purely distributionalone-to-many alignment, table 3 presents an eval-uation of the automatic one-to-many word align-ments produced by GIZA++ that uses the stan-dard heuristics for bidirectional word alignmentfrom phrase-based MT (Och and Ney, 2003).
Weevaluate the rate of translational correspondenceson the type-level that the system discovers againstthe one-to-many translations in our gold standard.By type we mean the set of lemmatized Englishtokens that makes up the translation of the Ger-man source lemma.
Generally, automatic wordalignment yields a very high FPR if no frequencythreshold is used.
Increasing the threshold mayhelp in some cases, however the frequency of theverb n > 0 n > 1 n > 3FPR FNR FPR FNR FPR FNRv1 0.97 0.93 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0v2 0.93 0.9 0.5 0.96 0.0 0.98v3 0.88 0.83 0.8 0.97 0.67 0.97v4 0.98 0.92 0.8 0.92 0.34 0.92Table 3: False positive rate and False negative rateof GIZA++ one-to-many alignmentstranslation types is so low, that already at a thresh-old of 3, almost all types get filtered.
This does notmean that the automatic word alignment does notdiscover any correct correspondences at all, but itmeans that the detection of the exact set of tokensthat correspond to the source token is rare.This low precision of one-to-many alignmentsisn?t very surprising.
Many types of MWEs con-sist of items that contribute most of the lexical se-mantic content, while the other items belong to theclass of semantically almost ?empty?
items (e.g.particles, light verbs).
These semantically ?light?items have a distribution that doesn?t necessarilycorrelate with the source item.
For instance, inthe following sentence pair taken from Europarl,GIZA++ was not able to capture the correspon-dence between the German main verb behindern(en.
impede) and the LVC constitute an obstacleto, but only finds an alignment link between theverb and the noun obstacle.
(15) DieTheKorruptioncorruptionbehindertimpedesdietheEntwicklung.development.
(16) Corruption constitutes an obstacle to development.Another limitation of the word-alignment mod-els is that are independent of whether the sen-tences are largely parallel or rather free transla-tions.
However, parallel corpora like Europarl areknow to contain a very large number of free trans-lations.
In these cases, direct lexical correspon-dences are much more unlikely to be found.3.2 Aligning Syntactic ConfigurationsHigh-precision extraction of one-to-many trans-lation detection thus involves two major prob-lems: 1) How to identify sentences or configura-tions where reliable lexical correspondences canbe found?
2) How to align target items that have alow occurrence correlation?We argue that both of these problems can beadressed by taking syntactic information into ac-26count.
As an example, consider the pair of paral-lel configurations in Figure 1 for the sentence pairgiven in (15) and (16).
Although there is no strictone-to-one alignment for the German verb, the ba-sic predicate-argument structure is parallel: Theverbs arguments directly correspond to each otherand are all dominated by a verbal root node.Based on these intuitions, we propose agenerate-and-filter strategy for our one-to-manytranslation detection which extracts partial, largelyparallel dependency configurations.
By admittingtarget dependency paths to be aligned to sourcesingle dependency relations, we admit configura-tions where the source item is translated by morethan one word.
For instance, given the configura-tion in Figure 1, we allow the German verb to bealigned to the path connecting constitute and theargument Y2.Our one-to-many translation detection consistsof the following steps: a) candidate generationof aligned syntactic configurations, b) filtering theconfigurations c) alignment post-editing, i.e.
as-sembling the target tokens corresponding to thesource item.
The following paragraphs will brieflycaracterize these steps.behindertX 1 Y 1Y 2an toX 2 obstaclecreateFigure 1: Example of a typical syntactic MWEconfigurationData We word-aligned the German and Englishportion of the Europarl corpus by means of theGIZA++ tool.
Both portions where assigned flatsyntactic dependency analyses by means of theMaltParser (Nivre et al, 2006) such that we ob-tain a parallel resource of word-aligned depen-dency parses.
Each sentence in our resource canbe represented by the triple (DG, DE , AG,E).
DGis the set of dependency triples (s1, rel, s2) suchthat s2 is a dependent of s1 of type rel and s1, s2are words of the source language.
DE is the setof dependency triples of the target sentence.
AG,Ecorresponds to the set of pairs (s1, t1) such thats1, t1 are aligned.Candidate Generation This step generates alist of source configurations by searching for oc-curences of the source lexical verb where it islinked to some syntactic dependents (e.g.
its argu-ments).
An example input would be the configura-tion ( (verb,SB,%), (verb,OA,%)) forour German verbs.Filtering Given our source candidates, a validparallel configuration (DG, DE , AG,E) is then de-fined by the following conditions:1.
The source configuration DG is the set of tu-ples (s1, rel, sn) where s1 is our source item andsn some dependent.2.
For each sn ?
DG, there is a tuple (sn, tn) ?AG,E , i.e.
every dependent has an alignment.3.
There is a target item t1 ?
DE such thatfor each tn, there is a p ?
DE such that p isa path (t1, rel, tx), (tx, rel, ty)...(tz, rel, tn) thatconnects t1 and tn.
Thus, the target dependentshave a common root.To filter noise due to parsing or alignment er-rors, we further introduce a filter on the length ofthe path that connects the target root and its de-pendents and w exclude paths cross contain sen-tence boundaries.
Moreover, the above candi-date filtering doesn?t exclude configurations whichexhibit paraphrases involving head-switching orcomplex coordination.
Head-switching can be de-tected with the help of alignment information: ifthere is a item in our target configuration that hasan reliable alignment with an item not contained inour source configuration, our target configurationis likely to contain such a structural paraphrasesand is excluded from our candidate set.
Coordina-tion can be discarded by imposing the condition onthe configuration not to contain a coordination re-lation.
This Generate-and-Filter strategy now ex-tracts a set of sentences where we are likely to finda good one-to-one or one-to-many translation forthe source verb.Alignment Post-editing In the final alignmentstep, one now needs to figure out which lexicalmaterial in the aligned syntactic configurations ac-tually corresponds to the translation of the sourceitem.
The intuition discussed in 3.2 was that all27the items lying on a path between the root itemand the terminals belong to the translation of thesource item.
However, these items may have othersyntactic dependents that may also be part of theone-to-many translation.
As an example, considerthe configuration in figure 1 where the article anwhich is part of the LVC create an obstacle to hasto be aligned to the German source verb.Thus, for a set of items ti for which there is a de-pendency relation (tx, rel, ti) ?
DE such that tx isan element of our target configuration, we need todecide whether (s1, ti) ?
AG,E .
This translationproblem now largely parallels collocation trans-lation problems discussed in the literature, as in(Smadja and McKeown, 1994).
But, crucially, oursyntactic filtering strategy has substantially nar-rowed down the number of items that are possi-ble parts of the one-to-many translation.
Thus, astraightforward way to assemble the translationalcorrespondence is to compute the correlation orassociation of the possibly missing items with thegiven translation pair as proposed in (Smadja andMcKeown, 1994).
Therefore, we propose the fol-lowing alignment post-editing algorithm:Given the source item s1 and the set of target itemsT , where each ti ?
T is an element of our targetconfiguration,1.
Compute corr(s1, T ), the correlation be-tween s1 and T .2.
For each ti, tx such that there isa (ti, rel, tx) ?
DE , computecorr(s1, T + {tx})3. if corr(s1, T + {tx}) ?
corr(s1, T ), add txto T .As the Dice coefficient is often to give the bestresults, e.g.
in (Smadja and McKeown, 1994), wealso chose Dice as our correlation measure.
In fu-ture work, we will experiment with other associa-tion measures.
Our correlation scores are thus de-fined by the formula:corr(s1, T ) =2(freq(s1 ?
T ))freq(s1) + freq(T )We define freq(T ) as the number of sentencepairs whose target sentence contains occurrencesof all ti ?
T , and freq(s1) accordingly.
The ob-servation frequency freq(s1?T ) is the number ofsentence pairs that where s1 occurs in the sourcesentence, and T in the target sentence.The output translation can then be rep-resented as a dependency configurationof the following kind :((of,PMOD,%),(risk,NMOD,of),(risk,NMOD,the), (run,OBJ,risk),(run,SBJ,%)) which is the syntactic representationfor the English MWE run the risk of.3.3 EvaluationOur translational approach to MWE extractionbears the advantage that evaluation is not exclu-sively bound to the manual judgement of candi-date lists.
Instead, we can first evaluate the systemoutput against translation gold standards which areeasier to obtain.
The linguistic classification of thecandidates according to their compositionality canthen be treated as a separate problem.We present two experiments in this evaluationsection: We will first evaluate the translation de-tection on our gold standard to assess the gen-eral quality of the extraction method.
Since thisgold standard is to small to draw conclusions aboutthe quality of MWE patterns that the system de-tects, we further evaluate the translational corre-spondences for a larger set of verbs.Translation evaluation: In the first experiment,we extracted all types of translational correspon-dences for the verbs we annotated in the gold stan-dard.
We converted the output dependency con-figurations to the lemmatized bag-of-word formwe already applied for the alignment evaluationand calculated the FPR and FNR of the trans-lation types.
The evaluation is displayed in ta-ble 4.
Nearly all translation types that our sys-tem detected are correct.
This confirms our hy-pothesis that syntactic filtering yields more reli-able translations that just coocurrence-based align-ments.
However, the false negative rate is alsovery high.
This low recall is due to the fact thatour syntactic filters are very restrictive such that amajor part of the occurrences of the source lemmadon?t figure in the prototypical syntactic configu-ration.
Column two and three of the evaluation ta-ble present the FPR and FNR for experiments witha relaxed syntactic filter that doesn?t constrain thesyntactic type of the parallel argument relations.While not decreasing the FNR, the FPR decreasessignificantly.
This means that the syntactic filtersmainly fire on noisy configurations and don?t de-crease the recall.
A manual error analysis has alsoshown that the relatively flat annotation scheme ofour dependency parses significantly narrows down28the number of candidate configurations that our al-gorithm detects.
As the dependency parses don?tprovide deep analyses for tense or control phe-nomena, very often, a verb?s arguments don?t fig-ure as its syntactic dependents and no configura-tion is found.
Future work will explore the im-pact of deep syntactic analysis for the detection oftranslational correspondences.MWE evaluation: In a second experiment, weevaluated the patterns of correspondences foundby our extraction method for use in an MWE con-text.
Therefore, we selected 50 random verbs oc-curring in the Europarl corpus and extracted theirrespective translational correspondences.
This setof 50 verbs yields a set of 1592 one-to-many typesof translational correspondences.
We filtered thetypes wich display only morphological variation,such that the set of potential MWE types com-prises 1302 types.
Out of these, we evaluated arandom sample of 300 types by labelling the typeswith the MWE categories we established for theanalysis of our gold standard.
During the clas-sification, we encountered a further category ofoneto- many correspondence which cannot be con-sidered an MWE, the category of alternation.
Forinstance, we found a translational correspondencebetween the active realization of the German verbbegru?
?en (en.
appreciate) and the English passivebe pleased by.The classification is displayed in table 5.
Al-most 83% of the translational correspondencesthat our system extracted are perfect translationtypes.
Almost 60% of the extracted types can beconsidered MWEs that exhibit some kind of se-mantic idiosyncrasy.
The other translations couldbe classified as paraphrases or alternations.
In ourrandom sample, the portions of idioms is signifi-cantly higher than in our gold standard which con-firms our intuition that the MWE pattern of theone-to-many translations for a given verb are re-lated to language-specific, semantic properties ofthe verbs and the lexical concepts they realize.4 Related WorkThe problem sketched in this paper has clear con-ncetions to statistical MT.
So-called phrase-basedtranslation models generally target whole sentencealignment and do not necessarily recur to linguis-tically motivated phrase correspondences (Koehnet al, 2003).
Syntax-based translation that speci-fies formal relations between bilingual parses wasStrict Filter Relaxed FilterFPR FNR FPR FNRv1 0.0 0.96 0.5 0.96v2 0.25 0.88 0.47 0.79v3 0.25 0.74 0.56 0.63v4 0.0 0.875 0.56 0.84Table 4: False positive and false negative rate ofone-to-many translations.Trans.
type ProportionMWE type ProportionMWEs 57.5%V Part 8.2%V Prep 51.8%LVC 32.4%Idiom 10.6%Paraphrases 24.4%Alternations 1.0%Noise 17.1%Table 5: Classification of 300 types sampled fromthe set of one-to-many translations for 50 verbsestablished by (Wu, 1997).
Our way to use syn-tactic configurations can be seen as a heuristic tocheck relaxed structural parallelism.Work on MWEs in a crosslingual context hasalmost exclusively focussed on MWE translation(Smadja and McKeown, 1994; Anastasiou, 2008).In (Villada Moiro?n and Tiedemann, 2006), the au-thors make use of alignment information in a par-allel corpus to rank MWE candidates.
These ap-proaches don?t rely on the lexical semantic knowl-edge about MWEs in form of one-to-many trans-lations.By contrast, previous approaches to paraphraseextraction made more explicit use of crosslingualsemantic information.
In (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005), the authors use the target languageas a pivot providing contextual features for iden-tifying semantically similar expressions.
Para-phrasing is however only partially comparable tothe crosslingual MWE detection we propose inthis paper.
Recently, the very pronounced contextdependence of monolingual pairs of semanticallysimilar expressions has been recognized as a ma-jor challenge in modelling word meaning (Erk andPado, 2009).The idea that parallel corpora can be used asa linguistic resource that provides empirical evi-dence for monolingual idiosyncrasies has already29been exploited in, e.g.
morphology projection(Yarowsky et al, 2001) or word sense disambigua-tion (Dyvik, 2004).
While in a monolingual set-ting, it is quite tricky to come up with theoreticalor empirical definitions of sense discriminations,the crosslingual scenario offers a theory-neutral,data-driven solution: Since ambiguity is an id-iosyncratic property of a lexical item in a givenlanguage, it is not likely to be mirrored in a tar-get language.
Similarly, our approach can also beseen as a projection idea: we project the semanticinformation of simplex realization in a source lan-guage to an idiosyncratic, multiword realization inthe target language.5 ConclusionWe have explored the phenomenon of one-to-many translations in parallel corpora from theperspective of MWE identification.
Our man-ual study on a translation gold standard as wellas our experiments in automatic translation ex-traction have shown that one-to-many correspon-dences provide a rich resource and fruitful basisof study for data-driven MWE identification.
Thecrosslingual perspective raises new research ques-tions about the identification and interpretation ofMWEs.
It challenges the distinction between para-phrases and MWEs, a problem that does not ariseat all in the context of monolingual MWE ex-traction.
It also allows for the study of the rela-tion between the semantics of lexical concepts andtheir MWE realization.
Further research in this di-rection should investigate translational correspon-dences on a larger scale and further explore thesefor monolingual interpretation of MWEs.Our extraction method that is based on syn-tactic filters identifies MWE types with a muchhigher precision than purely cooccurence-basedword alignment and captures the various patternswe found in our gold standard.
Future work on theextraction method will have to focus on the gener-alization of these filters and the generalization toother items than verbs.
The experiments presentedin this paper also suggest that the MWE realiza-tion of certain lexical items in a target languageis subject to certain linguistic patterns.
Moreover,the method we propose is completely languagein-dependent such that further research has to studythe impact of the relatedness of the consideredlanguages on the patterns of one-to-many transla-tional correspondences.ReferencesDimitra Anastasiou.
2008.
Identification of idioms by mt?shybrid research system vs. three commercial system.
InProceedings of the EAMT, pp.
12?20.Timothy Baldwin and Aline Villavicencio.
2002.
Extract-ing the unextractable: a case study on verb-particles.
InProceedings of the COLING-02, pp.
1?7.Colin Bannard and Chris Callison-Burch.
2005.
Paraphras-ing with bilingual parallel corpora.
In Proceedings of the43rd Annual Meeting of the ACL, pp.
597?604 .Lea Cyrus.
2006.
Building a resource for studying transla-tion shifts.
In Proceedings of the 5th LREC, pp.
1240?1245.Helge Dyvik.
2004.
Translations as semantic mirrors.
Fromparallel corpus to WordNet.
Language and Computers,1:311 ?
326.Katrin Erk and Sebastian Pado.
2009.
Paraphrase assess-ment in structured vector space: Exploring parameters anddatasets.
In Proc.
of the EACL GEMS Workshop, pp.
57?65.Joa?o de Almeida Varelas Grac?a, Joana Paulo Pardal, Lu?
?saCoheur, and Diamantino Anto?nio Caseiro.
2008.
Multi-language word alignments annotation guidelines.
Techni-cal report, Tech.
Rep. 38 / 2008 INESC-ID Lisboa.Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu.
2003.Statistical phrase-based translation.
In Proceedings of theNAACL ?03, pp.
48?54.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus for statis-tical machine translation.
In MT Summit 2005, pp.
79?86.Joakim Nivre, Johan Hall, and Jens Nilsson.
2006.
Malt-parser: A data driven parser-generator for dependencyparsing.
In Proc.
of LREC-2006, pp.
2216?2219.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A systematic com-parison of various statistical alignment models.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Pavel Pecina.
2008.
A machine learning approach to multi-word expression extraction.
In Proceedings of the LRECMWE 2008 Workshop, pp.
54?57.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, and AnnCopestake.
2002.
Multiword expressions: A pain in theneck for NLP.
In Proc.
of the CICLing-2002, pp.
1?15.Frank Smadja and Kathleen McKeown.
1994.
Translatingcollocations for use in bilingual lexicons.
In Proceedingsof the HLT ?94 workshop, pp.
152?156.Begon?a Villada Moiro?n and Jo?rg Tiedemann.
2006.Identifying idiomatic expressions using automatic word-alignment.
In Proc.
of the EACL MWE 2006 Workshop,pp.
33?40.Dekai Wu.
1997.
Stochastic inversion transduction gram-mars and bilingual parsing of parallel corpora.
Comput.Linguist., 23(3):377?403.David Yarowsky, Grace Ngai, and Richard Wicentowski.2001.
Inducing multilingual text analysis tools via robustprojection across aligned corpora.
In Proceedings of HLT2001, pp.
1?8.30
