Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Grammar Engineering Across Frameworks, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 28?36,Suntec, Singapore, 6 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPAutosegmental representations in an HPSG of HausaBerthold CrysmannUniversit?t BonnPoppelsdorfer Allee 47, D?53115 Bonncrysmann@ifk.uni-bonn.deAbstractIn this paper I shall present a treatment oflexical and grammatical tone and vowellength in Hausa, as implemented in anemerging bidirectional HPSG of the lan-guage based on the Lingo Grammar Ma-trix (Bender et al, 2002).
I shall arguein particular that a systematic treatmentof suprasegmental phonology is indispen-sible in an implemented grammar of thelanguage, both for theoretical and practicalreasons.
I shall propose an LKB represen-tation that is strongly inspired by linguisticand computational work on AutosegmentalPhonology.
Finally, I shall show that thespecific implementation presented here isflexible enough to accommodate differentlevels of suprasegmental information in theinput.1 IntroductionHausa is a tone language spoken by over 30 millionspeakers in Northern Nigeria and bordering areasof Niger.
Genetically, the language belongs to theChadic sub-branch of the Afroasiatic family.In this language, both tone and length are lexi-cally and grammatically distinctive: Hausa distin-guishes two vowel lengths, as well as two underly-ing tones, H(igh) and L(ow).
At the surface level,we can observe two level tones, as well as one con-tour tone (fall).
Wolff (1993) cites the followingminimal pairs for tone:(1) a.
f?r??
?
?look (n)?b.
far`??
?
?dry season?c.
far??
?
?white/whiteness?Rising tone only results from the interaction ofgrammatical and intonational tone (Sharon Inkelasand Cobler, 1987; Inkelas and Leben, 1990).In addition to its function of differentiating lex-ical items, tone is also grammatically distinctive:the paradigms of subjunctive and preterite (=rel-ative completive) TAM markers partially over-lap in terms of their segments (k?
?2sg.subj, y?
?3sg.m.subj?, t?
?3sg.f.subj?
vs. ka ?2sg.rel.compl,ya ?3sg.m.rel.compl?, ta ?3sg.f.rel.compl?).
Fur-ther, the bound possessive linker and the previousreference (=specificity) marker are systematicallydistinguished by tonal means alone.
(2) a.
r`?
?ga-rgown.f-of.fAud?Aud?.m?Audu?s gown?b.
r`?
?g?-rgown.f-spec.f?the (aforementioned) gown(3) a. birni-ntown.m-of.mKan`?oKano?Kano town?b.
birn?-ntown.m-spec.m?the (aforementioned) town?Similarly, vowel length is also distinctive on bothlexical and grammatical levels: Newman (2000)cites the following pair (inter alia): fa?s `?a ?postpone?vs.
fas `?a ?smash?.
Examples of grammatical lengthdistinctions can again be found in the areas of TAMmarking: in relative clauses and focus construc-tions, completive aspect is expressed by means ofthe relative completive set (or preterite), using shortvowel na ?1.sg.rel.compl, ka ?2.sg.rel.compl?, ya?3.sg.m.rel.compl?
and ta ?3.sg.f.rel.compl?, interalia, which contrasts with the long vowel abso-lute completive na?, ka?, ya?, and ta?
used elsewhere(see Jaggar (2006) for discussion of the use of thepreterite in narratives).
Furthermore, Hausa usesverb-final vowel length to signal presence of a fol-lowing in-situ direct object (Hayes, 1990; Crys-mann, 2005).Despite the fact that the sophisticated models ofsuprasegmental phonology developed more thana quarter of a century ago within Autosegmental28Theory (Goldsmith, 1976; Leben, 1973) have al-ready been rigorously formalised in the ninetiesin the context of feature-structure-based computa-tional phonology (Bird, 1995; Scobbie, 1991; Birdand Klein, 1994; Walther, 1999), the representa-tion of tone and length has received little or noattention in the area of grammar engineering.
Thismay be partly due to the fact that the languages forwhich substantial grammars have been developedare not tone languages.
Existing grammar imple-mentations of tone languages like Chinese (Fangand King, 2007) do not appear to make use of au-tosegmental models either, possibly because theassignment of tone in an isolating language is notas intimately connected to inflectional and deriva-tional processes, as it is in a morphologically richlanguage like Hausa.In this paper, I shall argue that the issue ofsuprasegmental phonology is an integral part of anyimplemented grammar of Hausa, not only from thepoint of view of linguistic adequacy, but also un-der grammar-engineering and application-orientedperspectives.
I shall propose a treatment of toneand length in an LKB-grammar of Hausa that sys-tematically builds on separate representations ofsegments, tone and length and discuss how varioussalient aspects of Hausa syntax and morphologycan be addressed using a representation inspiredby Autosegmental Theory.
Furthermore, I shall ad-dress how different levels of suprasegmental infor-mation encoded in the different writing systems em-ployed in the language can be robustly integratedinto a single grammar, and explore its applicationpotential.2 Suprasegmental information in Hausawriting systems2.1 Latin script2.1.1 Standard orthography (Boko)Modern Hausa is standardly written using (a mod-ified version of) the Latin script, called bo?k?o.
Inaddition to the standard 26 letters of the Latin alpha-bet, Boko uses hooked letters, the apostrophe, aswell as digraphs to represent glottalised consonants(?, ?, ?, ts [s?
], ?y [Pj], ?
[P]).
Yet, neither tone norlength are represented in the standard orthography.2.1.2 Tone & length in scientific andeducational literatureIn contrast to the standard orthography, tone andlength are typically fully represented in the aca-demic literature on Hausa.
Besides reference gram-mars and other scientific publications on the lan-guage, this includes lexica, some of which exist inmachine-readable form (e.g., the on-line versionof Bargery (1934) at http://bargeryhausa.gotdns.com/).Length in scientific publications is typicallymarked using one of the following strategies: di-acritical marking of long (macron or post-fixedcolon; Newman (2000; Jaggar (2001)) or short vow-els (ogonek; Newman and Ma Newman (1977)),and segmental gemination of vowels (long) (Wolff,1993).
Regardless of whether the strategy is di-acritic or segmental, there is a strong tendencyto have short vowels unmarked, representing thelength information on long vowels only.Tone, by contrast, is exclusively marked bymeans of diacritics: again, two systems are typ-ically used, one marking low tone with a graveaccent leaving high tone unmarked, the other mark-ing high tone with an acute accent, leaving lowtone unmarked.
Besides that, fully toned represen-tations can also occasionally be found (using acuteand grave accents).
Falling tone, which phonologi-cally corresponds to a H-L contour associated witha single heavy syllable, is standardly marked with acircumflex accent.
Rising tone, by contrast, whichonly ever plays a role in intonational phonology,as mentioned in section 1, is typically not repre-sented.1Apart from the scientific literature, full represen-tation of suprasegmental information is also pro-vided in most of the Hausa language teaching liter-ature, e.g.
Cowan and Schuh (1976; Jungraithmayret al (2004).
Conventions tend to follow thosefound in the scientific literature, given that Hausalanguage teaching often forms an integral part ofAfrican linguistics curricula.The marking strategy assumed in this paper fol-lows the one found in Newman (2000) and Jaggar(2001), using diacritics for low and falling tones,taking high tone as the default.
Long vowels aremarked by a macron.2.2 Arabic script (Ajami)Besides the now standard Latin orthography, Hausahas been written traditionally using a slightly mod-ified version of the Arabic script called ?j?mi.
To-day, Ajami is still used occasionally, mainly in thecontext of religious texts.Just like Boko, Ajami does not represent tone.Owing to the Semitic origin of the script, however,length distinctions are indeed captured: while shortvowels are solely marked by diacritics, if at all,long vowels are represented using a combinationof letters and diacritics: long front vowels (/i:/ and/e:/) using the letter ya (?
), otherwise used for thepalatal glide /j/, long back vowels using the letterwau (?
), also used for the labio-velar glide /w/, and1Lexical L-H sequences associated with a single syllableundergo tonological simplification rules (Leben, 1971; New-man, 1995).29long /a:/ being represented by alif ( @ ).2 Vowelquality (/i:/ vs. /e:/ and /o:/ vs. /u:/) is differentiatedby means of diacritics.Thus, depending on the writing system, differ-ent levels of suprasegmental information need tobe processed, ranging from full representation inscientific and educational texts, over partial rep-resentation (Ajami), to complete absence of anytone or length marking (Boko).
This means thatthe grammar should be able to extract what infor-mation is available, and robustly deal with bothspecified and underspecified input.
This is evenmore important, if we want to include applications,where input in parsing is an underspecified rep-resentation, but output in generation requires fullspecification of suprasegmentals, e.g., in TTS orCALL scenarios.3 Morphology and suprasegmentalphonologyHausa morphological processes, like derivation andinflection, display close interaction between seg-mental and suprasegmental marking.
Affixation inHausa is predominantly suffixal, although prefixesand circumfixes are also attested.
On the segmentallevel, affixes can be divided into fully specified suf-fixes, and reduplicative suffixes.
Although partialand full reduplication of entire CV-sequences canalso be observed, probably the most common redu-plicative pattern involves reduplication and gem-ination of root consonants, with vowel melodiesprespecified.Tonally, affixes fall into one of three categories:affixes lexically unspecified for tone (only prefixes),tone-integrating affixes (suffixes only) and non-integrating affixes3.
While non-integrating affixesonly specify their own lexical tone, possibly affect-ing the segmental and suprasegmental realisationof a preceding syllable, tone-integrating suffixesholistically assign a tonal melody to the entire wordthey attach to.In contrast to tone, which is often assigned to theentire morphological word, alternations in lengthdo not tend to affect the entire base, but rather onlysyllables at morpheme boundaries.3.1 Tone-integrating suffixesHausa plurals represent the prototypical case oftone-integrating affixation.
The language has an2Ajami letter names are the Hausa equivalent of originalArabic names.
For a more complete description of Ajami, seeNewman (2000, pp.
729?740).3Among the non-integrating affixes, there is a subclassbearing polar tone, i.e., the surface tone is opposite to that ofthe neighbouring syllable.extremely rich set of morphological patterns forplural formation: Newman (2000) identifies 15classes, many of which have between 2 and 6 sub-classes.
Quite a few Hausa nouns form the pluralaccording to more than one pattern.
Among these15 plural classes, three are particularly productive,most notably classes 1-3.
All these three classes aretone integrating, as are almost all plural formationpatterns.
Thus, regardless of the tonal specificationin the singular, plural formation assigns a regulartone melody to the entire word:(4) -o?X??
(H) (Class I)a. gul`?a (HL) ?
gulo?l??
?drum stick?b.
ta?g`?a (HL) ?
ta?go?g??
?window?c.
gy?l?
(LL) ?
gyalo?l??
?shawl?d.
t?mbay`?a (LHL) ?
tambayo?y??
?ques-tion?e.
kamf?n??
(HLH) ?
kamfano?n??
?com-pany?f.
kw?m?t??
(LLHL) ?
kwamito?c??
?com-mittee?
(5) -ai (LH) (Class II)a.
?lhaj`??
(LHL) ?
?lh`?azai ?Hadji?b.
?a?l?b??
(HLH) ?
?
`?al?bai ?pupil?c.
sankac`?e (HHL) ?
s?nk?tai ?reapedcorn laid down in a row?d.
?lm?bazz?r??
(LLHLH) ?
?lm?b?zz?rai ?spendthrift?Class I plural formation involves affixation ofa partially reduplicative suffix -o?X??
replacing thebase-final vowel, if there is one.
Tone in class Iplurals is all H, regardless of whether the base isHL, LH, LL, HLH, or LHL.
Length specifications,by contrast are carried over from the base, exceptof course for the base-final vowel.
The qualityof the affix-internal consonant is determined byreduplication of the base-final consonant, possiblyundergoing regular palatalisation.Class II plurals are formed by means of the fullyspecified suffix -ai, with an associated integratingLH.
Tone assignment in Hausa is right to left: thus,L automatically spreads to the left.
Again, the tonalshape of the base gets entirely overridden by theLH plural pattern.
Non-final length specifications,however, are identical between the singular and theplural.3.2 Toneless prefixesAs we have seen above, tonal association in Hausaproceeds from right to left.
As a result, suffixescarry a lexical specification for tone.
Amongst30Hausa prefixes, however, one must distinguish be-tween those prefixes carrying a (non-integrating)lexical tone specification themselves, and those pre-fixes which are inherently unspecified for tone buthave their surface tone determined by means ofautomatic spreading.
An example of a prefix of thelatter type is provided by the reduplicative prefixesC1VC1- and C1VC2 found with pluractional verbs.These prefixes consists of an initial consonant thatcopies the first consonant of the base, followed bya short vowel copying the first vowel of the base(possibly undergoing centralisation).
The prefix-final consonant either forms a geminate with thefollowing base-initial consonant, or else copies thesecond consonant of the base.
(6) C1VC1-a.
darn?ce?
(HLH) ?
daddarn?ce?
(HHLH)?press down/oppress (gr 1)?b.
kar?nta?
(HLH) ?
kakkar?nta?
(HHLH)?read (gr 1)?c.
d`?agur`?a (LHL) ?
d?dd`?agur`?a (LLHL)?gnaw at (gr 2)?d.
gy`?aru (LH) ?
gy?ggy`?aru (LLH) ?bewell repaired (gr 7)?With trisyllabic bases, it is evident that the toneassumed by the prefix is just a copy of the initialtone of the base.The tonal pattern assigned to Hausa verbs aredetermined by paradigm membership, the so-calledgrade (Parsons, 1960), together with the numberof syllables.
Tone melodies range from monotonal,over bitonal, to maximally tritonal patterns.
Thus,tone-assignment to quadrisyllabic verbs, as derivedby pluractional prefixes, is an effect of automaticspreading.Pluractional affixation to bisyllabic verbs con-stitutes a slightly more complicated case: Sincesome paradigms assign different tone melodies tobisyllabic and trisyllabic verbs, prefixation to bi-syllabic bases triggers a change in tonal pattern.Note, however, that the tonal pattern assigned tothe derived trisyllabic pluractional verb is just theone expected for trisyllabic underived verbs of thesame paradigm (cf.
underived grade 1 kar?nta?
andgrade 2 d `?agur `?a above to the pluractional grade 1and grade 2 verbs below).
(7) a. ta?k`?a (HL) ?
tatt`?aka?
(HLH) ?step on(gr 1)?b.
j`?efa?
(LH) ?
j?jje?f`?a (LHL) ?throw at(gr 2)?44Owing to the inherent shortness of the reduplicated vowel,long /e:/ and /o:/ undergo regular reduction to [a] in thereduplicant.Thus, instead of the affix carrying lexical tone,tone is rather assigned holistically to the entirederived word (Newman, 2000).3.3 Non-integrating affixesThe third class of affixes we shall discuss are lex-ically specified for tone again (if vocalic).
Yet, incontrast to tone-integrating suffixes, they do notoverride the entire tonal specification of the base.Examples of tonally non-integrating suffixes aremanifold.
They include nominal and verbal suf-fixes like the bound accusative (polar) and genitivepronouns, the genitive linker (-n/-r), the inherentlylow-tone specificity marker (-n`/-r`), and the regulargerundive suffix -`wa?, among many others.
What iscommon to all these suffixes is that they only affectthe segmental and suprasegmental specification ofthe immediately preceding base-final syllable.Regular gerunds of verbs in grades 1, 4, 5, 6 and7 are formed by affixation of a floating tone-initialsuffix -`wa?.
When attached to a verb ending in along high syllable, the base final high tone and thefloating low tone combine into a falling contourtone.
If the base ends in a high short syllable, as ingrade 7, or if the base-final vowel is already low,no tonal change to the base can be observed.
(8) a. kar?nta?
?
kar?nt??awa?
?read (gr1)?b.
sayar ?
say?rwa?
?sell (gr5)?c.
ka?wo?
?
ka?w??owa?
?come (gr6)?d.
ka?m`?a ?
ka?m`?awa?
?catch (gr1)?e.
gy`?aru ?
gy`?aruwa?
?be repaired (gr7)?Note that apart from tonal change of high long tofalling, the base undergoes no segmental or lengthchange.Consonantal suffixes, like the genitive linker andthe specificity marker, by contrast, necessarily inte-grate into the coda of the preceding syllable.
SinceHausa does not allow long vowels in closed syl-lables, base-final long vowels and diphthongs areshortened.
The specificity marker is identical to thegenitive linker, as far as truncation of long vowelsand diphthongs is concerned.
It differs from thegenitive linker, in that it is inherently specified aslow, giving rise to a falling tone with high-finalbases.
With low-final bases, no tonal change canbe observed.
(9) a.
?wai ?
?wa-n-t?
?
(her) egg?b.
r`??ga?
?
r`??ga-r-t?
?
(her) gown?c.
mo?t`?a ?
mo?t?-r-t?
?
(her) car?
(10) a.
?wai ?
?w?-n ?the (aforementioned)egg?31b.
r`??ga?
?
r`?
?g?-r ?the (aforementioned)gown?c.
mo?t`?a ?
mo?t?-r ?
(her) car?Note that in contrast to tone-integrating suffixes,segmental and suprasegmental changes are strictlylocal, affecting material in adjacent syllables only.Besides non-integrating suffixes there are somevery rare prefixes that can be regarded as inherentlyspecified for tone.
One such prefix is low toneb?- that features in singular ethnonyms, like, e.g.b?haush `?e ?Hausa person?.
Typically, the prefix b?-is accompanied by a final tone-integrating HL suf-fix - `?e (masc) or HLH -a?/-?ya?
(fem), but not always.With regular ethnonyms, the initial tone of the suf-fix (H) spreads to the left, up to but excluding thelow tone prefix.
The plural of such ethnonyms isformed without a prefix.
Instead, a tone-integratingH or LH suffix -a?wa?
is used.
Vowel length of thebase is retained throughout:(11) F?rans?
?France?
?
B?faransh`?e (m), B?-faransh?ya?
(f) , Faransa?wa?
(pl) ?French?
(12) Ja?m?s ?Germany?
?
B?ja?mush`?e (m),B?ja?mush?ya?
(f) , Ja?musa?wa?
(pl) ?French?Besides the regular pattern, there are a few eth-nonyms that use a non-integrating -??
e.g.
B?g `?obir?
?from G `?obir, thus preserving the tonal pattern of theplace name base.
According to Newman (2000),however, many Hausa speakers prefer to use theregular tone-integrating suffix - `?e instead.
Thus, en-tirely non-integrating formation of ethnonyms hasceased to be a part of productive Hausa morphol-ogy.Moreover, even the productivity of tonally spec-ified b?- seems to be diminished: while the plu-ral is still productive, new ethnonyms tend to beformed using alternate periphrastic constructions?an/m?tum?n ?son/man of?
(Newman, 2000).
(13) a.
P?l?s???n?
?Palestine?
?
?an/m?tum?nP?l?s???n?
(m) ?
Palas???na?wa?
(pl)?Palestinian?b.
Bosniy?
?Bosnia?
?
?an/m?tum?nBosniy?
(m) ?
Bosniya?wa?
(pl)?Bosnian?To summarise, I shall take integrating and non-integrating suffixation as the standard case inHausa, together with toneless prefixation.
As weshall see in the description of our implementationin the following section, the treatment of isolatedcases of tonally specified prefixes will be treated asa non-productive sub-regularity.4 Representing autosegmental phonologyin the LKB4.1 Orthographemics in the LKBThe LKB (Copestake, 2002) has built-in supportfor orthographemic alternations, providing supportfor inflectional and derivational morphology.
Tech-nically, the orthographemic component of the LKBadopts a string-unification approach.
Below is anexample of the spelling part of regular -o?X??
pluralformation, together with the definitions of lettersets and wild-cards used.
Patterns on the right pre-empt patterns further to the left.
(14) %(wild-card (?v aeiou))%(letter-set (!c bcdfghjklmnpqrstvwxyz???)?
)noun_pl1_vow_ir :=%suffix (!c?v !co!ci) (t?v toci)(s?v soshi) (w?v woyi) (ts?v tsotsi)noun-plural-infl-rule &...In the above rule, the letter set !c is string uni-fied with the corresponding consonantal letter in theinput.
Note that in contrast to wild cards (e.g.
?v),multiple occurrences of letter set identifiers withinthe same pattern are bound to the same consonant,providing a convenient solution to gemination andpartial reduplication.Orthographemic rules are unary (lexical) rulesconsisting of a feature structure description and anassociated spelling change.
The orthographemicpart is applied to surface tokens in order to derivepotential stem forms.
The parser?s chart is theninitialised with lexical entries that have a corre-sponding stem form.
The orthographemic rulesthat have been applied in order to derive the stemare recorded on an agenda such that the featurestructure part can be applied to the lexical entriesthus retrieved.Recall from section 2 that Hausa standard or-thography does not represent tone or length.
Thus,suprasegmentally unmarked strings define the com-mon denominator for retrieving entries from thelexicon.
But even if the input is marked diacrit-ically for suprasegmentals, tone-integrating mor-phology can lead to drastic tonal changes, whichare superficially encoded as segmental alternations(since ?
6= ?).
Moreover, we hope to have shownabove that tone and segmental phonology shouldbest be treated separately.
Consequently, ortho-graphic representations unmarked for tone consti-tute the common denominator for all orthographicinput representations.In a first preprocessing step, tone and lengthspecifications on input tokens are extracted bymeans of a regular expression preprocessing en-gine built into the LKB (Waldron et al, 2006).32Instead of simply removing this potentially valu-able information, the preprocessor rules convertthe (diacritical) marking of tone and length into aninverse suffixal representation, separated from thesegmental string by _. Overtly marked high will berepresented as _H, overtly marked low as _L, andlack of tonal marking is recorded as _*.
Similarly,length information, if present, will be recorded bymeans of a colon next to the corresponding tone.E.g., input ?
`?al `?
?bai ?pupils?
will be convertedinto ?alibai_*_L_L:, whereas tonally unspec-ified ?alibai will become ?alibai_*_*_*.Input partially specified for length (?aalibai),as, e.g., in Ajami, will receive a representation as?alibai_*_*_*:.Once we have separated suprasegmental infor-mation from the orthography proper and storedit in the form of suffixal annotations, we can useLKB?s standard orthographemic machinery to con-vert the suffixal annotation into feature structureconstraints.54.2 Phonological representationAs we have seen above, there are several strategiesof tone and length marking in Hausa.
While overtlymarked tone and length is both unambiguous in it-self and directly enables us to infer what markingstrategy is used, the interpretation of vowels un-marked for tone or length depends entirely on thecontext: if a low-marking strategy is employed, un-marked segments (=_*) can be interpreted as high.However, if no marking of tone occurs at all inthe input, unmarked segments should be compati-ble with any tone.
The very same goes for length.In order to enable the grammar to flexibly inferthe meaning of these underspecified annotations,we introduce the following type hierarchy of tonalmarking.
The only assumption made here is thatthe marking strategy being adopted is used consis-tently across the entire input sentence.6Lexical and grammatical tones will be one ofhigh, low, or fall.7 In addition to these three lin-guistic tones, the type hierarchy features tonal typesthat correspond to tonal annotations found in theinput: utone is the type associated with tonally un-marked syllables, tone_ is the type associated with5In the near future, we plan to supplant this two-step solu-tion with a direct conversion of using diacritical informationinto feature structure annotations, using the advanced token-mapping developed by Adolphs et al (2008).
At present,however, this token-mapping has only been integrated into thePet run-time system (Callmeier, 2000), but not yet into theLKB.6In principle, even this assumption can be relaxed, at theperil of having reduced cross-sentence disambiguation.7I do not decompose falling tone into HL sequences,thereby simplifying the alignment between tone specifications,length specifications and segments.a high-marking strategy, _tone corresponds to low-marking, and _tone_ to full tonal marking (overthigh and low).
(15)tone_tone _utone_uhigh_tone__low__high__fall__low_high_fallutoneutone_ulow_ufalltone_low_high_fall_lowhighfallDepending on which annotations are present inthe input, the meaning of underspecified annota-tions can be determined on the basis of type infer-ence.
The orthographemic rules that consume tonalannotations do exactly two things: first, they recordthe tone specification just found as the first mem-ber of the TONE list of the daughter, successfullybuilding up a list of surface tones from right to left.
(16) _HH_ir :=%suffix (* _H:)diacritic-irule &[SUPRA [TONE [LIST #tones,LAST #tl],LEN [LIST #lens,LAST #ll]],DTR [SUPRA [TONE [LISThigh-marked-list &<high .
#tones>,LAST #last],LEN [LISTlong-marked-list &<long .
#lens>,LAST #ll]]]]._*_ir :=%suffix (* \*)diacritic-irule &[SUPRA [TONE [LIST #tones,LAST #tl],LEN [LIST #lens,LAST #ll]],DTR [SUPRA [TONE [LIST<utone .
#tones>,LAST #last],LEN [LIST<ulength .
#lens>,LAST #ll]]]].If the annotation is that of an overtly unmarkedtone, the underspecified type utone is inserted, oth-erwise high or low, as appropriate.
H or L tonerules simultaneously constrain the entire tone listaccording to the marking strategy, using list con-straints.
(17) high-marked-list :=tone-marked-list.high-marked-null :=high-marked-list &tone-marked-null.33high-marked-cons :=high-marked-list &tone-marked-cons &[FIRST tone_,REST high-marked-list].Presence of a single overtly marked high tonewill constrain every element of the tone list to bea subtype of high_.
According to the hierarchy oftonal types given above, the greatest lower boundof utone and high_ however, is low_, denoting (un-marked) low tone under a high-marking strategy.Thus, whatever tonal marking is found, unmarkedtones are coerced to represent the opposite tones.The way the type hierarchy is set up, 4 differentmarking strategies are possible: completely unspec-ified tone, high-tone marking, low-tone markingand fully explicit high- and low-tone marking.With the constraints we have just seen, we onlyget disambiguation of unmarked tone (and length)within the same word.
In order to disambiguateacross the entire sentence, we use difference listsof these tone and length lists to propagate the mark-ing regime to preceding and following words.
Inessence, we use two difference lists _LTONE and_RTONE to propagate from left to right and viceversa.8 Lexically, every word inserts its own tonelist as the singleton member of each difference list.The general phrasal types from which all gram-mar rules inherit now concatenate the _LTONE and_RTONE values of their daughters left to right andright to left, respectively.The tone marking rules given above are then fur-ther constrained according to the types of _LTONEand _RTONE.
Using list-of-list type constraints asgiven below, every word marked for tone will con-strain the marking regime found to its left and toits right.
(18) hm-llist := tm-llist.hm-clist := tm-clist &hm-llist &[FIRST high-marked-list,REST hm-llist].hm-nlist := hm-llist & tm-nlist.The treatment of length marking, as we havehinted at already, is entirely analogous to that oftone, imposing the corresponding constraints on alist of vowel length specifications.With these constraints in place, we get the fol-lowing disambiguation results (note that the verbzo?
is lexically specified as long):(19) a.
Fully unspecified: Ya zo (3 readings:ya?
zo?, ya zo?, y?
zo?
)8Since only overtly marked items can disambiguate tonallyunmarked ones, and the position of these disambiguating itemsin the string is not known a priori, we need two lists of lists,one for disambiguation of preceding material (_LTONE), theother for following material _RTONE.b.
Length specified: Ya zoo (2 read-ings: ya zo?, y?
zo?)c.
Length specified: Yaa zoo (1 read-ing: ya?
zo?)d.
Tone/length specified: Ya kaawoosh?
(1 reading: ya ka?wo?
sh?)e.
Fully specified: Y?
z??
(1 reading:ya zo?)f.
Inconsistent: Yaa zo (0 readings)As witnessed above, presence of length mark-ing coerces vowels not marked as long into theshort vowel reading.
Similarly, presence of a singlelow tone marking enforces a high tone reading ofovertly unmarked tones.In generation, the grammar only uses fully spec-ified tone marking, i.e., application of rules suchas _*_ir is blocked.
As a result, we always get asurface representation with full tone and length in-formation.
Post-generation Lisp functions are usedto convert the suffixal notation into the appropriatediacritic format.4.3 MorphologyThe main motivation for having tone and lengthrepresented on separate lists is two-fold: first, aswitnessed by Ajami, writing systems may overtlymark one distinction but not the other.
Second, andmore importantly, we have seen in section 3, thatmorphological processes tend to leave length in-tact, even if the entire word is holistically markedwith a completely new tonal melody, unrelated tothat of the base.
Having two separate lists, we canreplace the tonal structure in the course of mor-phological derivation but still have the rhythmicstructure shared between base and derived form bymeans of reentrancies.Here we investigate in more detail the role theserepresentations play in morphological derivation.In the previous section, we provided a generalrepresentation of segmental and suprasegmentalinformation, the latter being encoded by means oftwo lists and showed how preprocessor rules andorthographemic rules are used to extract this infor-mation from the input and associate it with parts ofthe feature structure, such that it can be matchedagainst morphological and lexical constraints onlength and tone.Since both tone and length are lexically distinc-tive, every lexical item specifies the contents of itsSUPRA|TONE and SUPRA|LEN lists.
The order ofthe elements on these two lists is right to left, facil-itating a treatment of tone spreading by means oflist types.
At the same time, this encoding providesconvenient access to the right-most length and tone34specification.
Since Hausa is predominantly suf-fixal, non-holistic morphophonological changes totone and length specifications exclusively target theright-most syllable of the base.As we have observed above, tonal changes canbe far more global than segmental and length alter-nations.
Thus, we will use the LEN list to synchro-nise the segmental and suprasegmental represen-tations.
Consequently, length specifications willalways be a closed list.
Tone, by contrast, mayinvolve spreading, i.e.
the exact number of indi-vidual H of an all H tone melody is determined bythe number of available tone bearing units, whichcorresponds to vowel length specifications in ourgrammar.
Since the number of tone bearing units isalready fixed by the length of LEN, and because thetone marking rules operate synchronously on TONEand LEN, we are free to underspecify the tonal rep-resentation as to the exact length of the melody.Therefore, we can provide a straightforward ac-count of right-to-left association and left-ward tonespreading in terms of open tone list types.
(20) h*-list := list.h*-cons := h*-list &cons & [FIRST high,REST h*-list].h*-null := h*-list & null.h*-l-list := list.h*-l-cons := h*-l-list &cons & [FIRST low,REST h*-list].As we shall see shortly, these list types providea highly general way to constrain holistic tonalassignment, independently of the segmental make-up of the base.In order to illustrate the interplay between seg-mental and suprasegmental constraints in morpho-logical derivation, I provide a treatment of thetwo major types of morphological rules: tone-integrating and non-integrating.9(21) noun_pl1_vow_ir :=%suffix (!c?v !co!ci) ...noun-plural-infl-rule \&[SUPRA[TONE [LIST h*-list],LEN [LIST < long, long .
#ll>,LAST #llast] ],DTR [SYNSEM.LKEYS.--MCLASS n-pl-1,SUPRA.LEN [LIST < [] .
#ll>,LAST #llast]]].Tone integrating affixes In our discussion of theClass I plural inflection rule above, we have onlyspecified the segmental changes.
As detailed inthe version below, holistic assignment of tone isachieved by means of a list type constraint on the9Toneless prefixation with automatic spreading constitutesjust a special sub-case of tone-integrating rules.TONE of the mother, paired with the absence ofany tonal restrictions regarding the morphologicaldaughter (the base).
The length marking of the twoinherently long suffix vowels is captured by meansof the addition of two long specification at the frontof LEN.
Affixation of -o?X??
replaces the base finalvowel.
Accordingly, the associated initial lengthspecification of the daughter is skipped and the re-maining list is passed on to the length specificationof the mother.Non-integrating affixes In feminine singularspecificity marking, both non-integrating tone andlength changes can be observed.
As depicted be-low, high-final bases undergo a tone change to fall.The remainder of the TONE list is structure-sharedbetween mother and daughter, carrying over anylist constraints that might be imposed there.
(22) f-sg-noun_def_high_ir :=%suffix (!v !vr) (!vi !vr) ...noun-def-f-sg-irule &[SUPRA [TONE [LIST <fall .
#tl >,LAST #tlast],LEN [LIST <short .
#ll>,LAST #llast]],DTR [SUPRA[TONE [LIST <high .
#tl>,LAST #tlast],LEN [LIST <[] .
#ll>,LAST #llast] ]]].Likewise, final shortening, which is triggeredby the affixation of a syllable-final consonant, iscaptured by an analogous constraint on LEN.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have proposed a treatment of toneand length in Hausa in terms of distinct representa-tions of segments, tone and length.
We have shownthat this separation is not only needed to accommo-date different orthographic representations in theinput, but that it also paves the way for a more gen-eral account of Hausa morphology, most notablyholistic assignment of tonal melodies combinedwith tone spreading.
At present, the grammar isnot only capable of extracting different levels ofsuprasegmental annotations contained in the input,but can also resolving tone and length ambigui-ties on the basis of grammatical constraints: e.g.,the ambiguity between genitive linker and previ-ous reference marker, or the ambiguity betweensubjunctive, preterite, and absolute completive inrelative and focus constructions.
In the future, weintend to equip the grammar with parse selectionmodels, to further enhance disambiguation.
Giventhe bidirectionality of the grammar and its flexiblesupport for tone and length, we plan to use it in thecontext of TTS and CALL applications in the nearfuture.35ReferencesPeter Adolphs, Stephan Oepen, Ulrich Callmeier,Berthold Crysmann, Dan Flickinger, and BerndKiefer.
2008.
Some fine points of hybrid naturallanguage parsing.
In Proceedings of the 6th Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2008), May, Marrakesh.G.
P. Bargery.
1934.
A Hausa?English Dictionaryand English?Hausa Vocabulary.
Oxford UniversityPress, London.Emily M. Bender, Dan Flickinger, and Stephan Oepen.2002.
The grammar matrix: An open-source starter-kit for the rapid development of cross-linguisticallyconsistent broad-coverage precision grammar.
InJohn Carroll, Nelleke Oostdijk, and Richard Sut-cliffe, editors, Proceedings of the Workshop onGrammar Engineering and Evaluation at the 19thInternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, pages 8?14.Steven Bird and Ewan Klein.
1994.
Phonological anal-ysis in typed feature systems.
Computational Lin-guistics, 20(3):455?491.Steven Bird.
1995.
Computational Phonology.
AConstraint-based Approach.
Studies in NaturalLanguage Processing.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Ulrich Callmeier.
2000.
PET ?
a platform for ex-perimentation with efficient HPSG processing tech-niques.
Journal of Natural Language Engineering,6(1):99?108.Ann Copestake.
2002.
Implementing Typed FeatureStructure Grammars.
CSLI Publications, Stanford.J.
Ronayne Cowan and Russell Schuh.
1976.
SpokenHausa.
Spoken Language Services, Ithaca.Berthold Crysmann.
2005.
An inflectional approach toHausa final vowel shortening.
In Geert Booij andJaap van Marle, editors, Yearbook of Morphology2004, pages 73?112.
Kluwer.Ji Fang and Tracy Holloway King.
2007.
An LFG Chi-nese grammar for machine use.
In Tracy HollowayKing and Emily Bender, editors, Proceedings of theGEAF 2007 Workshop, CSLI Studies in Computa-tional Linguistics ONLIN.
CSLI Publications.John A. Goldsmith.
1976.
Autosegmental Phonology.Ph.D.
thesis, MIT.Bruce Hayes.
1990.
Precompiled phrasal phonol-ogy.
In Sharon Inkelas and Draga Zec, editors, ThePhonology-Syntax Connection, pages 85?108.
Uni-versity of Chicago Press.Sharon Inkelas and William R. Leben.
1990.
Wherephonology and phonetics intersect: The case ofHausa intonation.
In Mary E. Beckman and JohnKingston, editors, Between the Grammar and thePhysics of Speech, Papers in Laboratory Phonol-ogy, pages 17?34.
Cambridge University Press, NewYork.Philip Jaggar.
2001.
Hausa.
John Benjamins, Amster-dam.Philip Jaggar.
2006.
The Hausa perfective tense-aspectused in wh-/focus constructions and historical narra-tives: A unified account.
In Larry Hyman and PaulNewman, editors, West African Linguistics: Descrip-tive, Comparative, and Historical Studies in Honorof Russell G. Schuh, Studies in African Linguistics,pages 100?133.Herrmann Jungraithmayr, Wilhelm J. G. M?hlig, andAnne Storch.
2004.
Lehrbuch der Hausa-Sprache.R?diger K?ppe Verlag, K?ln.William R. Leben.
1971.
The morphophonemics oftone in Hausa.
In C.-W. Kim and Herbert Stahlke,editors, Papers in African Linguistics, pages 201?218.
Linguistic Research, Edmonton.William Leben.
1973.
Suprasegmental Phonology.Ph.D.
thesis, MIT.Paul Newman and Roxana Ma Newman.
1977.
Mod-ern Hausa?English Dictionary.
University Press,Ibadan and Zaria, Nigeria.Paul Newman.
1995.
Hausa tonology: Complexities inan ?easy?
tone language.
In John Goldsmith, editor,The Handbook of Phonological Theory, pages 762?781.
Blackwell, Oxford.Paul Newman.
2000.
The Hausa Language.
An En-cyclopedic Reference Grammar.
Yale UniversityPress, New Haven, CT.F.
W. Parsons.
1960.
The verbal system in Hausa.Afrika und ?bersee, 44:1?36.Jim Scobbie.
1991.
Attribute-Value Phonology.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Edinburgh.William R. Leben Sharon Inkelas and Mark Cobler.1987.
The phonology of intonation in Hausa.
InProceedings of the North-Eastern Linguistic Society17, pages 327?341.Ben Waldron, Ann Copestake, Ulrich Sch?fer, andBernd Kiefer.
2006.
Preprocessing and tokenisa-tion standards in DELPH-IN tools.
In Proceedingsof the 5th International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC-2006), pages 2263?2268, Genova, May.Markus Walther.
1999.
Deklarative ProsodischeMorphologie, volume 399 of Linguistische Arbeiten.Niemeyer, T?bingen.Ekkehard Wolff.
1993.
Referenzgrammatik des Hausa.LIT, M?nster.36
