Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Computational Semantics, pages 346?350,Tilburg, January 2009. c?2009 International Conference on Computational SemanticsConcept and Relation Extraction in the FinanceDomainMihaela VelaDFKI Saarbr?ckenMihaela.Vela@dfki.deThierry DeclerckDFKI Saarbr?ckenThierry.Declerck@dfki.deAbstractIn this paper, we describe the state of our work on the possible deriva-tion of ontological structures from textual analysis.
We propose an ap-proach to semi-automatic generation of domain ontologies from scratch,on the basis of heuristic rules applied to the result of a multi-layeredprocessing of textual documents.1 IntroductionIn the context of the MUSING R&D European project1, which is dedi-cated to the development of Business Intelligence (BI) tools and modulesfounded on semantic-based knowledge and content systems, we are investi-gating among others the integration of semantic web and human languagetechnologies for enhancing the technological foundations of knowledge ac-quisition and reasoning in BI applications.In the first phase of the project many efforts have been dedicated tothe manual creation of domain related ontologies and their integration inupper level ontologies.
The creation of those ontologies was guided by do-main experts, who were submitting so-called competency questions to theontology engineers in order to support they work on ontology design andimplementation.
Since this approach to ontology creation is very time andresource consuming, we wanted to investigate the possible automation ofontology building directly from textual documents, with a special focus onthe financial domain.2 The ApproachWe consider the semi-automatic ontology derivation from text as a linguisticrule-based approach, which on the basis of lexical and syntactic properties1See www.musing.eu for more details346can suggest potential ontology classes and properties that can be used forbuilding an ontology.We suggest a multi-layered approach, which starts with a very shallowanalysis of certain lexical properties of words or very short combination ofwords, going from there to Part-of-Speech (POS) Tagging and morphologicalanalysis, before using, in a next step, deeper syntactic analysis and takinginto account larger parts of text, up to the level of sentences or even para-graphs.
The idea behind this: at the shallow level it is possible to detectpossible classes and relations, which can then be consolidated, refined or re-jected at further stages of textual analysis, with the help of domain expertsand ontology engineers.Our final goal is to clearly state what kind of ontological resource can beextracted from financial documents (annual reports of companies, financialnewspapers) at various level of textual processing.
As a data source we workfirst with a corpus of economical news articles from the German newspaperWirtschaftswoche.3 String-Based ProcessingAs a first step in the task of extracting ontology concepts and relations from(German) textual documents, we decided to look in the corpus for wordsoccurring alone (and starting with a capital letter) and in the context oflarger strings (which we assume to be mostly nominal compounds).
Wecall the words that show this property "anchor-words".
We consider thempotential labels of ontology classes and the compounds, in which they occur,as expressing potential relations for the labels of ontology classes.Take for example the anchor-word konzern (corporation), which is alsooccurring as part of the compound medienkonzern (media corporation).
Atthis very shallow and pattern-based processing level, we tentatively derivethat from the compound construction PREFIX + ANCHOR we can extractmedienkonzern ISA_SUBCLASS_OF konzern.
Another example of com-pound is konzernverwaltung (corporation management).
Here we derivefrom the compound construction ANCHOR + SUFFIX the relation: konzernHAS verwaltung (corporation HAS management);Although the examples demonstrate that a string analysis can to someextent propose some guidelines for ontology extraction, there are for suremajor limitations, due to the lack of well-defined domain and range spec-ifications in the proposed relations, the constraint relative to the numberof extracted relations and classes, the multiple appearance of morphologicalvariations, the lack of textual context etc.In order to reduce the limitations just mentioned, we started by lookingfor alternative formulations of the compounds, which can help in establishingsome filters and validation steps for relation extraction.
So for example the347expression Chef vom Konzern (chief of the corporation) is validating theproperty relation Konzern HAS Chef (corporation HAS chief ), due to themeaning we can associate with the preposition von (part-of, belonging-to).Concerning compound reformulations expressed by genitive post- modifi-cation, like mitarbeiter einer deutschen bank (employees of a german bank),we can see that they validate the relation extracted from the correspondingcompounds, since the genitive constructions have here a part-of/belonging-to meaning.4 Morphology and Lexical Semantics for OntologyDerivationA way to reduce some of the limitations described in Section 3 lies in theuse of morpho-syntactic information.
So for example the word Firmenchef(the boss of the firm) would be analyzed as follows:(1) <W INFL="[17 18 19]" POS="1" STEM="chef" COMP="firmenchef"TC="22">Firmenchef</W>This annotation is to read like this: the word Firmenchef has the stemchef, has POS noun, is the result of combining the word Firmen and theword Chef, and has certain morphological properties (here encoded withnumbers).
We can then describe certain morphological constraints for filter-ing out some suggested relations from Section 3.
For example, Chemiekonz-ern is introducing a subclass relation between Chemiekonzern and Konzern,whereas for Grosskonzern (large corporation) the subclass relation betweenGrosskonzern and Konzern does not apply.
The constraint proposed forsolving this kind of ambiguities is: the compound should consists of twonouns.Lexical semantics can also improve the quality of relation extraction.For the compound Chefdenker (chief thinker), we want to ensure that noHAS-relation between an ontology class labeled by chief and thinker is sug-gested.
For this purpose we use lexical semantic resources, like WordNet,and formulate a rule that states that if the word occurring in the prefixposition of a compound is a person, and the second part of the compoundis also denoting a person, then the HAS-relation can not be derived.Despite of the improvements made possible by morphology and lexicalsemantics a major limitation remains: ontology extraction is proposed onlyon the basis of word analysis and not on the basis of phrases and sentences,which offer more context.3485 Syntactic Information for the Generation of On-tologiesBy combining the processing steps described above, we were able to extractpossible relevant ontology classes, relations and properties.
For further im-provement we need to consider both the linguistic context and some infor-mation available in ontologies so far.
The syntactic analysis of the sentencebelow is a good example to show how a larger linguistic context can helpimproving the method described in this paper.
(2) [NP-Subj Er] [VG soll] [PP im Konzern] [NP-Ind-Obj Finanzchef [NE-PersGerhard Liener] ] [VG folgen]Through the syntactic structuring of the sentence, we can semanticallygroup the items, so that we can extract the fact that a financial chief iswithin a corporation, since the description of job succession is within a cor-poration (marked by the prepositional phrase im Konzern).
This aspect ofontology learning is being currently investigated and implemented.6 Conclusions and Further WorkIn this paper we have been describing a multi-layer textual analysis strat-egy that can help in building up ontologies from scratch, or integrate newsuggested ontology classes (or relations and properties) into existing ontolo-gies.
Since this is work in progress we also intended to get a clearer pictureon what kind of ontological knowledge can be extracted from the differentlayers of textual processing.For the "shallowest" parts of our suggested approach we could see thatproposed labels for ontology classes and relations seem to be appropriate.For sure, some evaluations of this work has to be done.
Nevertheless, wesee a big potential in a combination of suggestions generated by linguisticanalysis, domain experts and ontology engineers.ReferencesMassimiliano Ciaramita, Aldo Gangemi, Esther Ratsch, Jasmin Saric, and IsabelRojas.
Unsupervised learning of semantic relations for molecular biology ontolo-gies.
In Paul Buitelaar and Philipp Cimiano, editors, Ontology Learning andPopulation: Bridging the Gap between Text and Knowledge, pages 91?107.
IOSPress, Amsterdam, 2008.Philipp Cimiano, Siegfried Handschuh, and Steffen Staab.
Towards the self-annotating web.
In Proceedings of the 13th World Wide Web Conference, 2004.Thierry Declerck and Mihaela Vela.
A generic nlp tool for supporting shallowontology building.
In Proceedings of LREC, Genoa, May 2006.349Thierry Declerck, Hans-Ulrich Krieger, Bernd Kiefer, Marcus Spies, and ChristianLeibold.
Integration of semantic resources and tools for business intelligence.
InInternational Workshop on Semantic-Based Software Development held at OP-SLA 2007, 2007.Roberto Navigli and Paola Velardi.
From glossaries to Ontologies: Extracting Se-mantic Structure from Textual Definitions, pages 71?91.
IOS Press, 2008.Patrick Pantel and Marco Pennacchiotti.
Automatically Harvesting and Ontologiz-ing Semantic Relations, pages 171?199.
IOS Press, 2008.350
