Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2009: the 10th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group in Discourse and Dialogue, pages 107?110,Queen Mary University of London, September 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsProsodic turn-yielding Cues with and without optical FeedbackCaroline ClemensTechnische Universit?t BerlinDeutsche Telekom LaboratoriesErnst-Reuter-Platz 710587 BerlinCaroline.Clemens@telekom.deChristoph DiekhausTechnische Universit?t BerlinDepartment f. Language and CommunicationStra?e des 17.
Juni 13510623 Berlinc.diekhaus@alice-dsl.netAbstractThe authors present a study of prosodicturn-taking indicators.
The aim was toinvestigate whether some of the prosodiccues increase in quality or quantity if theoptical feedback channel in the verbalconversation is missing.
For the study webuilt up an experimental setup in whichconversational partners held a conversa-tion once with and once without an opti-cal feedback channel.
A detailed tran-scription of the recorded speech materialwas segmented into turns.
In each turnthe topic units were identified and thesyllables were labelled.
We measuredand compared prosodic feature character-istics between turn-final and turn-medialtopic units.1 IntroductionIn a verbal conversation the roles of speaker andlistener have to be defined.
Sacks et al (1974)stated ?minimize gap and overlap?
as the firstrule for a working turn-taking-mechanism.According to them, the end of turn has to bemarked in some way.
Since linguistic cues arerarely found, it is obvious that this marking hasto be realized by prosodic features.
Thissupposition was corroborated by the findings ofLehiste (1975), that listeners got the ability toidentify the position of clauses within a turn,even if the clauses were represented in isolation.In the speaker?s turn several prosodic cues arepresumed to indicate to the listener whether thespeaker wants to keep or end the turn.
At pointswith high speaker switch potential noticeablegestural and mimic cues can be found.
It isunknown how important those non-verbalaspects are for the turn-taking indication.
Themain research question of the presented study is:Do prosodic cues compensate if the opticalfeedback channel is missing in the verbalconversation?2 Prosodic and non-verbal turn-takingindicatorsDuncan (1972) sorted turn-taking signals by theirfunction.
He classified the signals as turn-yielding, turn-demanding (listener), attempt-suppressing, and back-channel-communication(listener response).We focused on turn-yielding as those signalsare easy to locate, and because most found pro-sodic and non-verbal cues belong to this class.Beattie (1981) and Orestr?m (1983) showed thata noticeable rising or falling movement of fun-damental frequency acts as a prosodic turn-yielding cue.
According to Orestr?m (1983), thefinal syllable of the turn is lengthened and some-times the syllable frequency is increased.
Duncan(1972) and Orestr?m (1983) documented a de-crease of intensity at the end of a turn.In addition, non-verbal cues for turn-yieldinghave been suggested.
Kendon (1967) noticed thata speaker often doesn?t look at the listener duringan utterance but does so at the end of the turn.An explanation is that at those points of the con-versation visual contact is required.
Exline(1965) discovered that participants in a conversa-tion look at their dialogue partner more oftenwhile they are listening.
Duncan (1972) foundseveral non-verbal cues in the behaviour of aspeaker as turn-yielding signals: Relaxation of atensed hand-position, completion of a gesture,regression of the torso, and relaxation of the fa-cial expression.3 Data Retrieval3.1 Experimental setupIn our experiment speakers held two conversa-tions, both in two conditions: first with eye-107contact and then without.
Speakers didn?t knoweach other.
The given task was to plan a party byseating guests on a map of the party location.
Forsolving the task it was necessary that the conver-sational partners share their information.3.2 Preparation of recorded speech mate-rialThere were four speakers in two bilateral conver-sations.
During the first half of a conversationthe speakers could see each other.
After they hadaccomplished half of the task a screen foreclosedeye-contact.
The recordings were transliteratedinto orthographic text by a phonetic expert.
Thisdetailed transliteration contains information likeword fragments, hesitations, pauses, and vocalevents like laughter.
The transcribed text wasthen segmented into turns.
In each turn the topicunits were identified according to our definition:?
A topic unit can be considered as seman-tically and grammatically complete and?
there is no further division possible ingrammatically and semantically completeunits.Table 1 shows the number of topic units wefound in our material.
The syllables were la-belled and the F0-contours were determined bymanual judgment.Table 1: Numbers of topic units for each speaker.3.3 Acoustic MeasurementsIn the analysis of the acoustic speech signal wefocused on features that have been suspected asturn-yielding signals in former studies.
Each endof a topic unit has the potential to be the end ofthe turn and to initiate a turn taking.
We assumedthat a speaker marks topic units in turn-final po-sition compared to turn-medial topic units byprosodic differences and that those differenceschange if the optical feedback channel is miss-ing.We observed the following prosodic features:?
Speech rate (syllables per second)?
Average intensity across topic units?
Difference of intensity of final last threesyllables and non-final last three syllableof topic units (in Hertz)?
Mean F0 in topic units (in Hertz)?
Mean range of F0 in topic units (inHertz)?
Difference in duration between final andnon-final syllables of topic units (in ms)?
Relative distribution of five differentclosing F0-contours in the topic units?
Characteristic F0-values of five differentclosing F0-contours (manual judgment)4 FindingsWe intended to examine whether the differencesbetween turn-final and turn-medial topic unitsdiffer in the feature characteristics between thetwo conditions.
Feature characteristics could dif-fer in quality or quantity.
For a variation in quan-tity the number of potential signals would in-crease or decrease between the two conditions.
Avariation in quality could only be analyzed if thepotential signal appears in both conditions andoccurs as an increase or decrease of the strengthof the feature.4.1 DurationThe mean syllable rate of final topic unit andnon-final topic unit was compared.
Our resultsindicate an increased syllable frequency at theend of the turn in condition 2.
But there is nosignificant difference between the two condi-tions.
One speaker even decreased syllable fre-quency in turn-final positions compared to non-turn-final positions.4.2 IntensityFor the intensity we analyzed differences be-tween?
the overall intensity of the topic units infinal and in non-final position, and?
the internal reduction of intensity at theend of the topic units in final and non-finalposition (by comparing the last three syl-lables to the others).The overall intensity of topic units in turn-final position is significantly decreased for two(of four) speakers in the condition with sight andfor three speakers in the condition without sight.That is, there seems to be a signal function which108is used by one more speaker in condition 2.However, this is just a quantitative differencebetween the two conditions.
For the speakers,using this potential signal in both conditions,there?s no detectable qualitative variation in con-dition 2 (no enhanced difference between theintensity of topic units in final and non-final po-sition).For all topic units a decrease of intensity at theend has been found.
Due to the decrease of airpressure during an utterance this was expected.This reduction of intensity is for all four speakersonly significant for topic units in final position.That is, that in topic units at the end of a turn thefinal reduction of intensity is much greater thanin the other topic units.
One could assume a sig-nal function.
Further analyses showed that thisdistinction is intensified by two of the speakersin condition 2, while it is weaker for the othertwo speakers.
The modifications in condition 2don?t have a mutual direction.4.3 Fundamental frequencyConcerning the fundamental frequency, we ex-amined the following issues by comparing thetwo conditions:?
The over-all F0-mean and F0-range ofthe topic units in final and non-final posi-tion?
The percentage distribution of final F0-contours at the end of the topic units in fi-nal and non-final position?
The representative last F0-values ofthese contours in final and non-final posi-tion (last level tone for movements andF0-mean for sustained F0).The speakers (exception is one speaker in condi-tion 2) realized the turn-final topic units withlower fundamental frequency; which is signifi-cant only for two speakers in both conditions.These two speakers made a stronger distinctionbetween final and non-final topic units in condi-tion 2 by increasing the difference of mean F0.The other two speakers diminish this distinctionin condition 2.Equivalent is the finding for the F0-range.
Thesame two speakers who decreased the mean fre-quency decreased also the F0-range in final topicunits.
For these speakers there?s also a noticeableintensification of the distinction in condition 2,while the other speakers behave contrarily.Analyzing the percentage distribution of F0-movements, we distinguished five F0-contours atthe end of the topic units: Sustain, Fall, Rise,Rise/fall, and Fall/rise.None of these contours seemed to appear moreoften in turn-final position.
This includes the fal-ling and rising F0-movements, which were as-sumed to be turn-yielding signals.
In contrastmost of the topic units where realized with a fi-nal sustain and there was no higher occurrence ofrise or fall in turn-final position detectable.For the final level tone (F0-mean for sustain)we found only for sustain, fall and rise/fall dif-ferences between final and non-final topic units.These contours had lower final level tones (lowerF0-mean for sustain) in turn-final position for atleast one speaker in condition 1 and 2 speakers incondition 2.
These findings accounted for thegeneral lowering of F0 in final topic units.
Al-though this distinction between final and non-final position doesn?t change qualitatively be-tween conditions, there?s some evidence for aquantitative change, because more speakers seemto use these signals in condition 2.5 Discussion and ConclusionTo examine whether turn-yielding signals areintensified in the condition without sight, weconstituted the criterion that a cue has to appearin one of the conditions for at least three of thespeakers to be considered.
For those cues we de-veloped a comparison chart in which qualitativeand quantitative changes between condition 1and 2 (with and without sight) were inscribed(Table 2).Qualitative differences could only occur if aspeaker shows the signal in both conditions.They are treated dichotomous (as increased anddecreased).
Quantitative differences are markedas added or omitted signals for each speaker.Table 2 shows that none of the signals under-goes changes of the same direction for more thantwo speakers.
For syllable frequency there?s nochange between the conditions at all.
For inten-sity of topic units, F0-mean of sustain, and lastlevel-tone of fall there?s only a quantitativechange for one speaker.
That is, one morespeaker added this signal in condition 2, whileone or more speaker use it in both conditions,without qualitative shades.Only the last level-tone of rise/fall and the dif-ference of intensity between final and non-finalsyllable groups show changes for more than onespeaker.
But while the difference of intensitybetween final and non-final syllable groups isincreased in condition 2 for the conversation109partners in group 1, it is decreased for group 2.The results cancel each other.Only the last level-tone of rise/fall was modi-fied in condition 2 by more than one speakerwithout being modified by other speakers in thecontrary way.
That is, it was added.
For the meanF0 and the F0-range one speaker omitted the sig-nals in condition 2 and one speaker increasedtheir distinctive function.Taking a look at the sum of shown signals, werecognize that for none of the speakers there?s aremarkable raise in the total number of shownsignals in condition 2.
Finally, every increaseddistinctive function of a signal, which could bejudged as compensation, has a negative counter-part like decrease or omission.
Based on the re-sults of this study one can?t assume, that the ana-lyzed prosodic cues compensate if the opticalfeedback channel is missing.
This leaves thequestion whether optical cues are necessary sig-nals or just added as redundant indicators to in-tensify the effect of the prosodic cues.Table 2: Main results of the analysis of some analyzed prosodic features.AcknowledgementWe thank the test speakers for volunteering.ReferencesAdam Kendon.
1967.
Some functions of gaze-direction in social interaction.
Acta Psychologica26: 22-63.Bengt Orestr?m.
1983.
Turn-taking in English Con-versation.
Lund studies in english 66, InfotryckAB, Malm?.Harvey Sacks, Emanuel A. Schegloff, and Gail Jeffer-son.
1974.
A simplest systematics for the organisa-tion for turn-taking for conversations.
Language50: 396-735.Ilse Lehiste.
1975.
The phonetic structure of para-graphs.
Structure and process in speech perception.Proceedings of the symposium of dynamic aspectsof speech perception.
Cohen / Nooteboom (Eds.
),Springer Berlin / Heidelberg.
195-206.Ralph V. Exline, David Gray, and Dorothy Schuette.1965.
Visual behavior in a dyad as affected by in-terview content and sex of respondent.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology 1: 201-209.Starkey Duncan, Jr.. 1972.
Some signals and rules fortaking speaking turns in conversations.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology 23: 283-292.W.
Geoffrey Beattie.
1981.
The regulation of speakerturns in face-to-face conversation: Some implica-tions for conversation in sound-only communica-tion channels.
Semiotica 34: 55-70.110
