Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Text and Citation Analysis for Scholarly Digital Libraries, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 80?87,Suntec, Singapore, 7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPCitations in the Digital Library of Classics: Extracting CanonicalReferences by Using Conditional Random FieldsMatteo Romanello, Federico Boschetti, Gregory CraneThe Perseus ProjectMedford, MA, USAmatteo.romanello, federico.boschetti, gregory.crane{@tufts.edu}AbstractScholars of Classics cite ancient texts byusing abridged citations called canonicalreferences.
In the scholarly digital library,canonical references create a complex tex-tile of links between ancient and modernsources reflecting the deep hypertextualnature of texts in this field.
This paperaims to demonstrate the suitability of Con-ditional Random Fields (CRF) for extract-ing this particular kind of reference fromunstructured texts in order to enhance thecapabilities of navigating and aggregatingscholarly electronic resources.
In partic-ular, we developed a parser which recog-nizes word level n-grams of a text as be-ing canonical references by using a CRFmodel trained with both positive and neg-ative examples.1 IntroductionIn the field of Classics, canonical references arethe traditional way established by scholars to citeprimary sources within secondary sources.
Byprimary sources we mean essentially the ancienttexts that are the specific research object of Philol-ogy, whereas by secondary sources we indicate allthe modern publications containing scholarly in-terpretations about those ancient texts.
This spe-cific characteristic strongly differentiates canoni-cal references from the typical references we usu-ally find within research papers.Canonical references are used to shortly refer tothe research object itself (in this case ancient texts)rather than to the existing literature about a cer-tain topic, as happens with references to other sec-ondary sources.
Given this distinction, canonicalreferences assume a role of primary importance asthe main entry point to the information containedin scholarly digital libraries of Classics.
To find aparallel with other research fields, the role playedby those references is somewhat analogous withthat played by protein names in the medical liter-ature or by notations of chemical compounds inthe field of Chemistry.
As was recently shown byDoms and Schroeder (2005) protein names can beused to semantically index documents and thus toenhance the information retrieval from a digital li-brary of texts, provided that they are properly or-ganized by using an ontology or a controlled vo-cabulary.
Moreover, by analyzing and indexingsuch references as if they were backlinks (Lester,2007) from a secondary to a primary source, it ispossible to provide quantitative data about the im-pact of an ancient author for research in a particu-lar disciplinary field, or in relation to a limited cor-pus of texts (e.g., the papers published by schol-arly journals in a given time interval).In addition to serving as entry points to infor-mation, canonical references can also be thoughtof as a navigation apparatus that allows scholarsto browse seamlessly through ancient texts andmodern interpretations about them (Crane, 1987).For every scholar working on the ancient histo-riographer Herodotus, for instance, it would beextremely useful to be able to easily access allthe secondary sources containing references toHerodotus?
works.Therefore, the ability to automatically identifycanonical references within unstructured texts is afirst and necessary step to provide the users of dig-ital libraries of Classics with a more sophisticatedway to access information and to navigate throughthe texts that are already available to scholars ofother fields.The volume of publicly available digitizedbooks constituting what has been called the Mil-lion Book Library (Crane, 2006) has made it es-sential to develop automatic and scalable toolsto automate the process of information extractionfrom electronic resources.
Furthermore, the obso-80lescence time for publications is far longer in Clas-sics than in other disciplines, meaning that typi-cally the value of a publication does not decreasedrastically after a certain time.
As a result, schol-ars in Classics may be the most potential benefi-ciaries of the recent mass digitization initiatives,since they have already started with many materi-als out of copyright.In this paper we describe how Conditional Ran-dom Fields (Lafferty et al, 2001), the state of theart model in automatic classification, can be suit-ably applied to provide a scalable solution to thisproblem.2 Related workCanonical references to primary sources can beexplored from at least three different angles: 1)identification and extraction; 2) hypertextual nav-igation; 3) semantics.The identification and extraction of biblio-graphic references from what we called secondarysources (i.e.
monographs, commentaries, journalpapers, etc.)
is a well explored task for which ef-fective tools already exist.
Although the biggestefforts in this direction have been made in thescientific fields, those tools can also be suitablyadapted to the field of Classics, since they are es-sentially based on machine learning techniques.Several researchers recently focused on apply-ing computational linguistics methods to automat-ically extract information from both Classical textsand modern texts about them, in order to supportthe above described needs of scalability.
Gerlachand Crane (2008), and Kolak and Schilit (2008)considered the identification of citations withinprimary sources by analyzing the syntactic andmorphological features of texts, while (Smith andCrane, 2001) dealt with the disambiguation of ge-ographical names.Looking at the problem of canonical referencesfrom the user point of view, a digital library ofClassical texts such as the Perseus Digital Li-brary1.
already offers to the reader the ability tonavigate from secondary sources to the primarysources they refer to, a process called referencelinking.
The identification of references and theattribution of semantics to them, however, wasdone manually, and the navigation is limited to re-sources contained in the same text collection.
Ananalogous reference linking system was proposed1http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/by Romanello (2008) as a value added service thatcould be provided to readers of electronic journalsby leveraging semantic encoded canonical refer-ences.
(Smith, 2009) provided an essential contribu-tion to the research concerning the semantics ofcanonical references.
The Canonical Text Services(CTS) protocol2 was developed by Smith for Har-vard?s Center for Hellenic Studies; it is based onURNs and is aimed at providing a machine action-able equivalent to printed canonical references.This protocol allows us to translate those refer-ences into machine actionable URNs that can thenbe resolved through resolution services against adistributed digital library of texts.
The innovativeaspect of the CTS protocol consists of a loose cou-pling system by which the linking between pri-mary and secondary sources can be realized.
In-stead of hard linking a canonical reference to justone electronic edition of a primary source, by em-bedding the CTS URNs inside (X)HTML pages, itbecomes possible to link it to an open ended num-ber of resources as shown by (Romanello, 2007).3 Canonical Text ReferencesCanonical references present unique characteris-tics when compared to bibliographic references tomodern publications.
First of all, they do not re-fer to physical facts of the referred work (such aspublication date or page number), but refer ratherto its logical and hierarchical structure.
In addi-tion, canonical references often provide additionalinformation needed by the reader to resolve thereference.
For example ?Archestr.
fr.
30.1 Olson-Sens?
means line 1 of fragment 30 of the comicpoet Archestratus in the edition published by S. D.Olson and A. Sens in 1994.The specification of the edition according towhich a source is cited is an important piece of in-formation to be considered.
Indeed, since the aimof Philology is to reconstruct for ancient works atext that is as close as possible to the original one(given that the original text may have been cor-rupted over centuries of manuscript tradition), ed-itors and scholars often disagree substantially as towhat readings and conjectures have to be includedin the established text.Although some well established sets of abbre-viations exist, scholars?
practice of citing primary2http://chs75.harvard.edu/projects/diginc/techpub/cts81sources may noticeably differ according to stylepreferences and the typographical needs of pub-lishers, journals or research groups.
Aeschylus?name might appear in the abridged forms ?A.,Aesch., Aeschyl.
?, and similarly a collection offragments like Jacoby?s Die Fragmente der Gri-eschischen Historiker may be abbreviated eitheras FrGrHist or FGrHist.Moreover, some highly specialized branches ofresearch exist within the field of Classics, such asthose dedicated to Epic poetry or Tragedy, or evento a single author like Aeschylus or Homer.
Inthose specialized branches a common tendency touse shorter references with a higher semantic den-sity for the most cited authors can be observed.For example, in publications containing thousandsof references to Homer?s Iliad and Odyssey, refer-ences to these texts are often expressed with Greekletters indicating the book number along with theverse number (e.g., ??
1?
stands for the first verseof the first book of Homer?s Odyssey).
Lowercaseletters are used to refer to books of the Odyssey,whereas uppercase letters refer to the books of theIliad, according to a practice developed in the IVcentury B.C.
by scholars of the library at Alexan-dria.In the actual practice of scholarly writing,canonical references can appear with slightly dif-ferent figures according to the needs of narrative.Along with complete canonical references to a sin-gle text passage, expressed as either a single valueor a range of values, other references can often befound that are missing one or more componentsthat are normally present within canonical refer-ences, such as an indication of the author name, ofthe work title or of the editor name (e.g., ?Hom.Od.
9.1, 9.2-3; Il 1.100?).
This happens partic-ularly in subsequent references to passages of thesame work.Those differences that can be observed aboutthe appearance of canonical references require usto apply different processing strategies to eachcase.
We focus on the task of automatically iden-tifying complete references to primary sources.Once those references have been identified in theinput document, we can find other anaphoric refer-ences by applying some scope-based parsing.
In-deed, a canonical reference in the text constitutesthe reference scope for subsequent text passage in-dications referring to the same work.4 MethodologyProvided that scholars may use canonical refer-ences with different abbreviation or citation styles,it is nevertheless possible to identify within canon-ical references common patterns in terms of tokenfeatures.CRF is used to classify a token depending onits features and is suitable to identify those featurepatterns (Culotta et al, 2006).
During the trainingphase, the CRF model learns what features makeit more likely for a token to belong to a given cat-egory.Our starting assumption is that it is possibleto determine if a sequence of tokens constitute acanonical reference by evaluating (looking at) thefeatures of its tokens.
Each token of a sequence isassigned a category on the basis of a fixed num-ber of features.
Those token categories are in turnused as features to classify the token sequence.Starting from a dataset of canonical referencesand applying the above described criteria to assignfeatures to the tokens, we obtain a training datasetwhere each canonical reference is reduced to a to-ken by removing whitespaces, and it is a assignedas many as features as the category assigned to itstokens.Finally, in order to classify token sequences as?references?
or ?non-references?
each canonicalreference is assigned a convenient label.
The ob-tained set of labelled references is used to train aCRF model to identify canonical references withinunstructured texts.4.1 Feature Extraction and TokenCategorizationFor feature extraction phase, it was important toidentify both inclusive and exclusive token fea-tures.
Indeed, to extract canonical references witha high level of precision, we need to identify notonly the characteristic features of tokens occurringwithin actual references but also those characteris-tic features for tokens occurring in sequences thatwe want to be classified as non-references.Even though the features are quite similar tothose used to identify modern bibliographic refer-ences (Isaac Councill and Kan, 2008), they weretuned to fit the specific needs of canonical refer-ences to primary sources.
We decided to record atotal of 9 features for each token, concerning thefollowing aspects:821.
Punctuation: information about the punctu-ation concerning the presence of a final dot,hyphen, quotation marks and brackets (eithersingle or paired), and marks used to divideand structure sequences (i.e.
comma, colonand semicolon), which are particularly im-portant for sequences of text passages.2.
Orthographic Case: the orthographic caseof a token is an essential piece of informa-tion to be tracked.
Author names when ab-breviated still keep the initial as an upper-case letter, whereas collections of texts (suchas collections of fragments) often present alluppercase or mixed case letters (e.g., ?Tr-GrFr?,?CGF?, ?FHG?, etc.).3.
Stopwords: given that the main language ofthe input document is passed as a parame-ter to the parser, we record in a separate fea-ture information regarding whether a token isa stopword in the input document language.This feature is particularly important in deter-mining more precisely the actual boundariesof a canonical reference within the text.4.
Greek Words: since we deal with UnicodeUTF-8 text, we distinguish Greek letters andwords.
This allows us to identify more pre-cisely those references that contain Greektext such as the above mentioned Homericreferences or references to the ancient lexica(e.g., Harpocr., Lex.
s.v.
??????????)
sincethey contain the lemma of the Greek word re-ferred to, usually preceded by the abbrevia-tion ?s.v.?
(i.e.
sub voce).5.
Number: Roman and Arabic numerals com-bined in several figures are frequently usedto indicate the scope of a reference.
Arabicnumerals that are used to represent moderndates, however, are distinguished by usinga heuristic (for example, consider the prob-lem of a footnote mark which gets appendedto a date).
Nevertheless, sequences of bothnumbers and punctuation marks are assigneda specific value for this feature, since thescope of a reference is commonly expressedby dot and hyphen separated sequences suchas ?9.235-255?.6.
Dictionary matching: two features are as-signed if a token matches a dictionary entry.Three different dictionaries are used to ver-ify if a token corresponds to a known canon-ical abbreviation (e.g.
?Hom.?
for Homer or?Od.?
for Odyssey) or to another kind of ab-breviation, namely the abbreviations used byphilologists to shortly refer to pages, lines,verses, etc.
(?p?, ?pp.
?, ?v.
?, ?vv.
?, ?cfr?, etc.
)or to abbreviations used for modern journals.Abbreviations pertaining to the latter kind arelikely to introduce some noise during the n-gram classification phase and thus are prop-erly distinguished through a specific feature.During preliminary analysis we particularlyobserved that journal abbreviations were of-ten confused with abbreviations for text col-lections since - as we noted above - they sharethe feature of having uppercase or mixed caseletters.7.
Fragment indication: canonical references tofragments usually contain the indication ?fr.?
(and ?frr.?
for more than one).
Thereforewe expect tokens bearing this feature to occuralmost exclusively within references to frag-mentary texts.We extract from the training dataset thoseunique patterns of these 9 token features that arelikely to be found within canonical references.
Inorder to ensure both the scalability and the ex-tensibility of the suggested method to disciplinaryfields other than Classics, we did not assign anidentity feature to tokens or - in other words - theactual string content is not considered as a tokenfeature.
However, since this decision might de-crease the overall precision of the system, we in-troduced some features to record whether the to-ken string occurs in one or more controlled dictio-naries (e.g., list of widely adopted abbreviations).An analogous consideration is valid also forthe dependency of the system from a specific lan-guage.
Even though the approach is substantiallylanguage independent, the performances of oursystem in terms of precision were improved byusing language specific lists of stopwords in or-der to identify the actual boundaries of a canoni-cal reference within the text.
Currently we supportthe most commonly used languages in the field ofClassics (English, French, German, Italian, Span-ish).Finally, it is worth noting that the use of italics isa distinctive feature in particular for those tokens83that represent abbreviations of work titles.
Sincewe are dealing with plain text input documents,however, and wish to keep the adopted approachas generalizable as possible, this feature has notbeen taken into account.Token Features Cat.F1 F2 F3 F4 F5 F6 F7 F8 F9Od.
ICP FDT NOD OTH OTH OTH CAB OTH OTH 1 c509.216-535.
OTH FDT DSN OTH OTH OTH OTH OTH OTH 2 c6Table 1: Categorization of tokens of the reference?Od.
9.216-535?
on the basis of their features.Token Features Cat.F1 F2Od.
9.216-535 1 c50 2 c6 refTable 2: Categorization of the reference of Tab.
1by using token categories as its features.Feature LabelF1 CaseF2 Punctuation MarkF3 NumberF4 Greek SequenceF5 Stop WordF6 Paired BracketsF7 Contained in the 1st Dict.F8 Contained in the 2nd Dict.F9 Fragment IndicationFeature ValueCAB Canonical AbbreviationDSN Dot Separated Number Plus RangeFDT Final DotICP Initial CapNOD No Digit SequenceOTH OtherTable 3: List of abbreviations used in Tab.
1, 2.4.2 Positive and Negative TrainingSince the main goal of our parser is to identifycanonical references by isolating them from thesurrounding context, both positive and negativetraining examples are needed.
Indeed, providedtwo token sequences where the first contains justa canonical reference (e.g., ?Od.
9.216-535?)
andthe second additionally includes some tokens fromthe context phrase (e.g.,?Od.
9.216-535, cfr.
p.29.?
), without a negative training phrase both to-ken sequences would have the same degree of sim-ilarity.
When weighted by the CRF model theresult would be that both sequences would sharethe same number of features with one of the refer-ences of the positive training.
But since other se-quences presenting features from both the positiveand negative training were included in the training,and since such sequences were labelled as ?non-references?, the end result is that a token sequencewith some tokens from a context phrase will beless similar to a pure canonical reference.The first step of the training phase is the ex-traction of token features and the identification ofunique patterns of token features.
At this stagethe processing units are the tokens of a reference.Given a dataset of canonical references, each ref-erence is firstly tokenized and each token is thenassigned 9 labels containing the values for theabove described features (see Section 4.1).
Notethat in Tab.
1, 2 the labels and values of featuresare indicated by the abbreviations given in Tab.
3.The observed combinations of feature valuesare then deduplicated and rearranged into uniquecategories that are used to classify each token (seeTab 1).
These categories correspond to the uniquescombinations of features assigned to tokens of ref-erences in the training dataset.
Each category isdefined by a name such as ?c6?
or ?c50?, where?c?
simply stands for ?category??
and ?6?
or ?50?are unique numeric identifiers.
Besides, a numer-ical prefix corresponding to the position of the to-ken inside the canonical reference is then added tothe category name to form the identifier.
Indeed,the position of each token in the sequence is initself meaningful information, provided that indi-cations of the reference scope (and other referencecomponents as well) tend to occur at the end ofthe token sequence.
What we obtain are categoryidentifiers such as ?1 c50?
or ?2 c6?.The second step is building the training dataset.At this stage each canonical reference is reducedto a single token which is assigned the label ?ref?(i.e.
reference) and which has as distinctive fea-tures the category identifiers assigned to its tokens(see Tab 2).Finally, a such obtained dataset of labelled in-stances is used to train our CRF model by us-ing the Java CRF implementation provided by theMallet toolkit (McCallum, 2002).844.3 Sequence Classification ProcessThe system we propose to identify canonical ref-erences in unstructured texts is basically a binaryclassifier.
Indeed, it classifies as ?reference?
or?non-reference?
a sequence of word level n-gramsdepending on the features of its tokens.
However,in the training dataset the positive examples aremanually grouped by typology and different labels(such as ?ref1?, ?ref2?
etc.)
are assigned to canon-ical references pertaining to different types.
Thisis done in order to avoid associating too many fea-tures to a single class and thus to maximize thedifference in terms of features between sequencebeing references and non-references.Since every token is assigned a certain numberof features and finally a category, the likelihoodfor a token sequence to be a canonical referencecan be determined on the basis of its similarity, interms of token features, to the labelled referencesof a training set.Once the input document is tokenized into sin-gle words, the n-grams are created by using awindow of variable dimensions ranging from theminimum to the maximum length in terms of to-kens that was observed for all the references in thetraining dataset.
For example, provided that theshortest canonical reference in the training datasetis 2 tokens long and the longest is 7 tokens long,for each token are created 6 word level n-grams.For the sake of performance, however, the num-ber of n-grams to be created is determined foreach token at parsing time.
First of all a thresholdvalue is passed to the parser as an option value.The threshold is compared to the weight value as-signed by the CRF model to the probability of atoken to be classified with a label, in our case?ref?
or ?noref?.
For each token, if the first n-gram is classified as not being a canonical refer-ence the processing shifts to the next token, sincewe observed that if the first n-gram is classified asa non-reference the following n-grams of increas-ing width never contain a reference.
If the exam-ined n-gram is classified as reference, another ofdimension n+1 is created: the parser passes on toprocess the next token only if the current n-gramis classified as a canonical reference with a like-lihood value greater that that of the previous n-gram.5 Training and Evaluation CriteriaThe system is based on both a positive and a neg-ative training.The dataset for the positive training is built bylabeling with the above explained criteria a start-ing set of approximatively 50 canonical referencesselected by an expert.
The classifier trained withthose positive examples is then applied to a ran-dom set of documents.
Extracted candidate canon-ical references are scored by the CRF model by as-signing to each sequence of n-grams a value rep-resenting the probability for the sequence to be acanonical reference.The first one hundred errors with the highestscore, due to the sharing of several features withthe actual canonical references, are marked asnon-references and added to the set of sequencesto use for the negative training.
The negativetraining is needed in order to precisely segmenta canonical reference and to correctly classifythose sequences that are most likely to be con-fused with actual canonical references, such as se-quences only partially containing a canonical ref-erence or bibliographic references.
In particular,bibliographic references are misleading sequencessince they have several features in common withcanonical references, such as capitalized titles andpage numbers.The overall performances of the system ona random sample of 24 pages can be summa-rized by: precision=81.01%, recall=94.11%, ac-curacy=77.11%, F-score=0.8707.
Analytical dataare provided in Tab.
4.
Although the evaluationwas performed on pages drawn from a publica-tion written in Italian, we expect to have analogousperformances on texts written in each of the cur-rently supported languages (English, French, Ger-man, Italian, Spanish) for the reasons described inSection 4.1.The results are encouraging, however, and somefurther improvements could concern the recoveryof tokens wrongly included in or excluded fromthe sequence identified by the parser.6 Conclusion and Future WorkThis paper has illustrated how the CRF model canbe suitably applied to the task of extracting canoni-cal references from unstructured texts by correctlyclassifying word level n-grams as references ornon-references.85Document # Precision Recall Accuracy F-Score40 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000041 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000055 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000057 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000062 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000064 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000067 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% 0.250074 88.00% 87.50% 77.78% 0.880077 45.00% 90.00% 42.86% 0.600082 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000085 100.00% 90.00% 90.00% 0.947488 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.000090 92.31% 92.31% 85.71% 0.4286100 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.0000113 60.00% 100.00% 60.00% 0.7500117 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.0000134 100.00% 75.00% 75.00% 0.8571137 75.00% 100.00% 75.00% 0.8571144 67.00% 100.00% 67.00% 0.8024146 33.00% 100.00% 33.00% 0.4511150 57.14% 100.00% 57.00% 0.7273162 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 1.0000169 50.00% 75.00% 43.00% 0.6000Overall 81.01% 94.11% 77.11% 0.8707Table 4: Performance evaluation of the system.Once automatically identified, canonical refer-ences can have further semantic information addedto them.
By combining and then applying tech-niques of syntactic and semantic parsing to theidentified references, it is possible to extract infor-mation such as the precise author name and worktitle, the text passage referred to, and the referenceedition (either when implicitly assumed or explic-itly declared).The first important outcome of our work is thatsuch an automatic system allows us to elicit thehidden tangle of references which links togetherthe primary and secondary sources of a digital li-brary.
Another important outcome is that unstruc-tured texts could be analyzed on the basis of thecanonical references they contain, for example byclustering techniques.
Given a consistent corpusof texts it would be possible to cluster it on thebasis of the distribution of canonical referenceswithin documents in order to obtain a first topicclassification.Among the benefits of the proposed approachthere is the possibility of applying it to texts per-taining to specific branches of Classics, like Pa-pyrology or Epigraphy.
Indeed in those disci-plines papyri and epigraphs are also often cited byabridged references that are very similar in theirstructure and features to the canonical text ref-erences.
In a similar way, a canonical referenceparser can be trained on a particular citation stylein order to tailor it to a consistent corpus of textswith consequent improvements on the overall per-formances.Finally, since the task of automatic extractionof canonical references has never been exploredbefore, we hope that in the future more resourceswill be available for this task (such as trainingdatasets, golden standards, performance measureto be compared, etc.
), analogous to those alreadyexisting for other more common tasks, like namedentity recognition or the extraction and labeling ofmodern bibliographic references.ReferencesGregory Crane.
1987.
From the old to the new: in-tergrating hypertext into traditional scholarship.
InProceedings of the ACM conference on Hypertext,pages 51?55, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, UnitedStates.
ACM.Gregory Crane.
2006.
What do you do with a millionbooks.
D-Lib Magazine, 12(3).Aron Culotta, Andrew Mccallum, and Jonathan Betz.2006.
Integrating probabilistic extraction modelsand data mining to discover relations and patterns intext.
In Proceedings of the main conference on Hu-man Language Technology Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association of Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 296?303, Morristown, NJ,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Andreas Doms and Michael Schroeder.
2005.
GoP-ubMed: exploring PubMed with the gene ontology.Nucl.
Acids Res., 33(suppl 2):783?786, July.Andrea Ernst-Gerlach and Gregory Crane, 2008.
Iden-tifying Quotations in Reference Works and PrimaryMaterials, pages 78?87.C.
Lee Giles Isaac Councill and Min-Yen Kan. 2008.Parscit: an open-source crf reference string pars-ing package.
In Bente Maegaard Joseph Mari-ani Jan Odjik Stelios Piperidis Daniel Tapias Nico-letta Calzolari (Conference Chair), Khalid Choukri,editor, Proceedings of the Sixth InternationalLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC?08),Marrakech, Morocco.
European Language Re-sources Association (ELRA).
http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2008/.86Okan Kolak and Bill N. Schilit.
2008.
Generating linksby mining quotations.
In Proceedings of the nine-teenth ACM conference on Hypertext and hyperme-dia, pages 117?126, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
ACM.John Lafferty, Andrew Mccallum, and FernandoPereira.
2001.
Conditional random fields: Prob-abilistic models for segmenting and labeling se-quence data.
In Proc.
18th International Conf.
onMachine Learning, pages 289, 282.
Morgan Kauf-mann, San Francisco, CA.Frank Lester.
2007.
Backlinks: Alternatives to thecitation index for determining impact.
Journal ofElectronic Publishing, 10(2).Andrew Kachites McCallum.
2002.
MAL-LET: a machine learning for language toolkit.http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.Matteo Romanello.
2007.
A semantic linking sys-tem for canonical references to electronic corpora.Prague.
to be next published in the proceedings ofthe ECAL 2007 Electronic Corpora of Ancient Lan-guages, held in Prague November 2007.Matteo Romanello.
2008.
A semantic linking frame-work to provide critical value-added services for e-journals on classics.
In Susanna Mornati and LeslieChan, editors, ELPUB2008.
Open Scholarship: Au-thority, Community, and Sustainability in the Age ofWeb 2.0 - Proceedings of the 12th International Con-ference on Electronic Publishing held in Toronto,Canada 25-27 June 2008 / Edited by: Leslie Chanand Susanna Mornati.David A. Smith and Gregory Crane.
2001.
Disam-biguating geographic names in a historical digital li-brary.
In ECDL ?01: Proceedings of the 5th Euro-pean Conference on Research and Advanced Tech-nology for Digital Libraries, pages 127?136, Lon-don, UK.
Springer-Verlag.Neel Smith.
2009.
Citation in classical studies.
DigitalHumanities Quarterly, 3(1).87
