Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Building and Using Comparable Corpora, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 19?22,Suntec, Singapore, 6 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPAn Analysis of the Calque Phenomena Based on Comparable CorporaMarie GarnierCAS, Universite?
Toulouse le Mirail31000 Toulouse Francemhl.garnier@gmail.comPatrick Saint-DizierIRIT-CNRS, 118, route de Narbonne,31062 Toulouse Francestdizier@irit.frAbstractIn this short paper we show how Compara-ble corpora can be constructed in order toanalyze the notion of ?calque?.
We then in-vestigate the way comparable corpora con-tribute to a better linguistic analysis of thecalque effect and how it can help improveerror correction for non-native languageproductions.1 Aims and SituationNon-native speakers of a language (called the tar-get language) producing documents in that lan-guage (e.g.
French authors like us writing in En-glish) often encounter lexical, grammatical andstylistic difficulties that make their texts difficultto understand.
As a result, the professionalism andthe credibility of these texts is often affected.
Ourmain aim is to develop procedures for the correc-tion of those errors which cannot (and will not inthe near future) be treated by the most advancedtext processing systems such as those proposed inthe Office Suite, OpenOffice and the like, or ad-vanced writing assistance tools like Antidote.
Incontrast with tutoring systems, we want to leavedecisions as to the proper corrections up to thewriter, providing him/her with arguments for andagainst a given correction in case several correc-tions are possible.To achieve these aims we need to produce amodel of the cognitive strategies deployed by hu-man experts (e.g.
translators correcting texts,teachers) when they detect and correct errors.
Ourobservations show that it is not a simple andstraightforward strategy, but that error diagnosisand corrections are often based on a complex ana-lytical and decisional process.Most errors result from a lack of knowledgeof the target language.
A very frequent strategyfor authors is to imitate the constructions of theirnative language so that the production resemblesstandard terms and constructions of the target lan-guage.
This approach based on analogy is called acalque when surface forms are taken into consider-ation (Hammadou, 2000), (Vinay et al 1963).
Theerrors produced in this context may be quite com-plex to characterize, and they are often difficult tounderstand.
When attempting to correct these er-rors, we find it interesting to have access to someof the characteristics of the native language of theauthor so that a kind of ?retro-analysis?
of the errorcan be carried out.
This would allow a much betterrate of successful corrections, even on apparentlycomplex errors involving long segments of wordsin a sentence.Works on the correction of grammatical errorsmade by human authors (e.g.
Writer?s v. 8.2) haverecently started to appear.
These systems do notpropose any explicit analysis of the errors nor dothey help the user to understand them.
The ap-proach presented here, which is still preliminary,is an attempt to include some didactic aspects intothe correction by explaining to the user the natureof her/his errors, whether grammatical or stylis-tic, while weighing the pros and cons of a cor-rection, via argumentation and decision theories(Boutiler et al.
1999), (Amgoud et al.
2008).Persuasion aspects are also important within thedidactical perspective (e.g.
Persuation Technologysymposiums), (Prakken 2006).
Finally, the calque(direct copy) effect has been studied in the didac-tics of language learning, but has never receivedmuch attention in the framework of error correc-tion, where a precise analysis of its facets needs tobe conducted.In this short document we present the premisesof an approach to correcting complex grammati-cal and lexical errors based on an analysis of thecalque effect.
Calque effects cannot easily be re-duced to the violation of a few grammar rules ofthe target language: they need an analysis of their19own.
For that purpose, we introduce several waysof constructing and annotating the forms calqueeffects can take in source and target language inbilingual corpora.
These corpora are both rela-tively parallel, but also relatively comparable inthe sense that they convey the same informationeven though the syntax is incorrect.
From theseannotations, different strategies can then be de-ployed to develop correction rules.
The languagesconsidered here are French, Spanish and English,which have quite rigid and comparable structures.We are investigating two other languages: Ben-gali and Thai, which have a very different structure(the former has a strong case structure and somefree phrase order, the latter has a lot of optionalforms and functions with a strong influence fromcontext).
Besides correcting errors, the goal is tomake an analysis of the importance of the calqueeffect and its facets over various language pairs.2 Constructing comparable corpora2.1 General parameters of the corporaThe documents used to construct the corpora rangefrom spontaneous short productions, with littlecontrol and proofreading, such as emails or postson forums, wiki texts, personal web pages, tohighly controlled documents such as publicationsor professional reports.
Within each of these types,we also observed variation in the control of thequality of the writing.
For example, emails sent tofriends are less controlled than those produced ina professional environment, and even in this latterframework, messages sent to hierarchy or to for-eign colleagues receive more attention than thosesent to close colleagues.
Besides the level of con-trol, other parameters, such as target audience, aretaken into consideration.
Therefore, the differentcorpora we have collected form a continuum overseveral parameters (control, orality, audience, lan-guage level of the writer, etc.
); they allow us toobserve a large variety of language productions.The analysis of errors has been carried out by anumber of linguists which are either bilingual orwith a good expertise of the target language.
Foreach document, either a bilingual expert or twolinguists which are respectively native speakers ofthe source language and target language were in-volved in the analysis, in order to guarantee a cor-rect apprehension of the calque effect, togetherwith a correct analysis of the idiosyncrasies andthe difficulties of each language in the pair.Calque effects cover a large range of phenom-ena.
Here are three major situations, for the pur-pose of illustration:(1) Lexical calque: occurs when a form whichis specific to the source language is used; this isparticularly frequent for prepositions introducingverb objects: Our team participated to this projectwhere in should be used instead of to.
(2) Position calque: occurs when a word or a con-struction is misplaced.
For example, in Frenchthe adverb is often positioned after the main verbwhereas in English it must not appear between theverb and its object: I dine regularly at the restau-rant should be I regularly dine ....(3) Temporal calque: occurs for temporal se-quences concerning the grammatical tenses ofverbs in related clauses or sentences: When I willget a job, I will buy a house the future in French istranslated into English by the present tense: WhenI get a job.2.2 Scenarios for developing corporaIn (Albert et al 2009), we present the differentcategories of errors encountered in the differenttypes of documents we have studied, and the waythey are annotated.
These categories differ sub-stantially according to text type.
The approachpresented below is based on this analysis.In our effort to construct a corpus, we cannotuse documents with several translations, such asnotices or manuals written in several languagessince we do not know how and by whom (humanor machine) the translations have been done.
Inwhat follows, we present the two scenarios thatseem to be the most relevant ones for our analy-sis.A first scenario in constructing comparable cor-pora is simply to consider texts written by for-eign authors, to manually detect errors (those com-plex errors not handled by text editors) and to pro-pose a correction.
Beside the correction, a trans-lation of the alleged source text (what the au-thor would have produced in his own language) isgiven.
This study was carried out for the follow-ing pairs: French to English, French to Spanishand Spanish to English.
So far, about 200 pages oftextual document have been analyzed and tagged.The result is a corpus where the erroneous text seg-ments are associated with a triple:(1) the original erroneous segment, with the errorcategory,20(2) the correction in the target language (sincethere may exist several corrections, the by-defaultcorrection is given first, followed by other, lessprototypical corrections),(3) the most direct translation of this segment intothe author?s native language, possibly a few alter-natives if they are frequent.
This translation is pro-duced by a native speaker of a source language.We have 22 texts representing papers or reports,about 20 web pages and about 80 emails or blogposts.
These are produced by 55 different Frenchauthors, over a few domains: computer science,linguistics, health, leisure and tourism.
Balanceover domains and authors has been enforced asmuch as possible.Here is an example based on our annotationschemas, mentioning some relevant attributes:.... <error-zone error-type=?future?>When I will get </error-zone><correction errror-rev=?present?>When I get </correction><transl calque=?future?> Quand j?aurais </transl>.....A second scenario we are developing is to takeexisting texts in the source language, with a po-tentially high risk of calque effects, which are rep-resentative of the types of productions advocatedabove and of increasing difficulty, and to ask quitea large and representative population of users totranslate these texts.
Emails need to be translatedin a short period of time while more formal textsdo not bear any time constraints, so that authorscan revise them at will.
We then have a corpuswhich can be used to study how the calque effectfunctions and how it can optimally be used in au-tomatic error correction.In this latter scenario, important features are asfollows:Corpus: we built a set of short corpora (8 cor-pora), so that the task for each translator is not toolong.
Each corpus is about 5 pages long.
It con-tains 2 pages of emails, some really informal andothers more formal, 1 page in the style of a webpage and 2 pages of more formal document (re-port, procedure, letter, etc.).
Those texts are eitherreal texts or texts we have slightly adapted in orderto increase the potential number of calque effects.Translators: we use a large population of transla-tors (about 70), where the language competence isthe major parameter.
Age and profession are alsonoted, but seem to be less important.
Each corpusis translated by 8 to 10 translators with differentcompetences, so that we have a better understand-ing of the forms calques may take.
Comptenceis measured retroactively via the quality of theirtranslations.
For emails, translators are instructedto follow the provided text, possibly via some per-sonal variation if they do not feel comfortable withthe text.
The goal is to improve naturalness (prob-ably also in a later stage to study the forms of vari-ations).Protocol: in terms of timing, translators are askedto translate emails in a very short time span, whichvaries depending on the ability of the translator;conversely, they have as much time as needed forthe other documents, which can be proofread overseveral days, as in real situations.
No dictionary oronline grammar is allowed.3 Analysing the facets of the calque effectLet us now briefly present how these corpora allowus to have a better linguistic analysis of the calqueeffect and how this analysis can help us improveerror correction.The first level of analysis is the evaluation ofthe importance of a calque error per category andsubcategory.
For the pair French to English, weare studying:?
lexical calques, among which: incorrectpreposition, incorrect verb structure (transi-tive vs. intransitive uses), argument diver-gences (as for the verb to miss),?
lexical choice calques which account forforms used in English, which are close toFrench forms, but with different meanings Ipassed an exam this morning should be: Itook an exam this morning, .?
structural calques, which account for syntac-tic structures constructed by analogy fromFrench.
In this category fall constructionssuch as the incorrect adverb position or theposition of quite: a quite difficult exercisewhich must be quite a difficult exercise?
A few basic style calques, with in particularthe problem of temporal sequence.In terms of frequency, here are some examplesof results related to calque effects, obtained froma partial analysis realized so far on 1200 lines ofemails produced by about 35 different authors, forthe pair French to English.
Note that, in average,21emails have one error per line.Lexical calques: incorrect lexical choice ofpreposition: 62, determiner: 30, adverbs: 12,modals: 26, incorrect idiomatic expression: 70.Grammatical calques: incorrect position of ad-verbs: 38, adjectives: 7; argument omissions: 52,incorrect passive forms: 8.Style: incorrect temporal sequences: 26, aspect:20, punctuation: 76.Alongside an evaluation of the distribution andfrequency of the different categories of calque, inconjunction with the parameters considered in thecorpus constitution (in particular foreign languagelevel and type of document), we can analyze theevolution of the calque effect: when (i.e.
at whatlanguage competence stage) and how they emerge,expand, and disappear.
Another question is theanalysis of the level of genericity of calques: somemay be individual, related to the way a certain in-dividual has experienced learning a foreign lan-guage, whereas some may be widespread amonga certain linguistic population.
Examining differ-ent document types is also interesting.
It showsthe performance of a subject when he must writehastily, with little control, in contrast with highlycontrolled productions.
This allows us to analyzewhat remanence level of calques appear when thesubject does not have the time to proofread histext, as opposed to those which are still presentwhen he has time to proofread it.
This also betraysa possible error hierarchy in the subject?s mind,since the subject will be tempted to first correctthe errors he thinks are the most important.It is also interesting to take into considerationcorpora over several language pairs, and in partic-ular to contrast the French to English and Spanishto English pairs.
Although French and Spanish arein the same language family, the calque effects ob-served are quite different.
This is not surprising fora number of lexical calques, but more interestingfor grammatical calques.
For example, the gram-mar of pronouns and reflexives is quite different inSpanish, leading to forms such as David is me, acalque of David soy yo.Finally, if we consider the two scenarios above,where the first one is probably a direct productionin English, whereras the latter is a production viaan explicit translation, it becomes clear that theyrequire a different kind of effort.
It is thus inter-esting to compare the frequency of the differentcalque categories encountered and their distribu-tion over subjects.
The translation from an explicitsource is probably more constraining in terms ofform and contents than text produced directly (oralmost) in English.
This is under investigation.4 PerspectivesThe work presented here is essentially thepremises of a detailed analysis of the calque ef-fect and, working on a language pair basis, on howthis analysis can be used to substantially improvethe performances of the correction for non triviallexical and grammatical errors that current text ed-itors cannot detect and correct.
We have shownhow corpora have been built.
So far, they are quitesmall, but sufficient to make a preliminary and in-dicative analysis of the problems, and to suggestdirections for research.
These corpora are also toosmall to be used in any kind of statistical machinelearning procedure to automatically correct errors.Our goal is thus to propose some elements ofa strategy for didacticians teaching foreign lan-guages so that students can improve their perfor-mance, based on the knowledge of these effects.ReferencesAlbert, C., Garnier, M., Rykner, A., Saint-Dizier,P., Analyzing a corpus of documents produced byFrench writers in English: annotating lexical, gram-matical and stylistic errors and their distribution,Corpus Linguistics conference, Liverpool, 2009.Amgoud, L., Dimopoulos, Y., Moraitis, P., Making de-cisions through preference-based argumentation.
InProceedings of the International Conference on Prin-ciples of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning(KR08), AAAI Press, 2008.Boutilier, C., Dean, T., Hanks, S., Decision-theoreticplanning: Structural assumptions and computationalleverage.
Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research,11:194, 1999.Chuquet, H., Paillard, M., Approche Linguistique desProblmes de Traduction, Paris, Ophrys, 1989.Hammadou, J., The Impact of Analogy and Con-tent Knowledge on Reading Comprehension: WhatHelps, What Hurts, ERIC, 2000.Prakken, H., Formal systems for persuasion dialogue,Knowledge Engineering Review, 21:163188, 2006.Vinay, Jean-Paul and Darbelnay, Jean: StylistiqueCompare?e du Francais et de l?Anglais, Paris, Didier,1963.22
