Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 182?185,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPBuilding a Large Syntactically-Annotated Corpus of VietnamesePhuong-Thai NguyenCollege of Technology, VNUthainp@vnu.edu.vnXuan-Luong VuVietnam Lexicography Cen-trevuluong@vietlex.vnThi-Minh-Huyen NguyenUniversity of NaturalSciences, VNUhuyenntm@vnu.edu.vnVan-Hiep NguyenUniversity of Social Sciences andHumanities, VNUhiepnv@vnu.edu.vnHong-Phuong LeLORIA/INRIA Lorrainelehong@loria.frAbstractTreebank is an important resource forboth research and application of naturallanguage processing.
For Vietnamese, westill lack such kind of corpora.
This paperpresents up-to-date results of a project forVietnamese treebank construction.
SinceVietnamese is an isolating language andhas no word delimiter, there are manyambiguities in sentence analysis.
We sys-tematically applied a lot of linguistictechniques to handle such ambiguities.Annotators are supported by automatic-labeling tools and a tree-editor tool.
Rawtexts are extracted from Tuoi Tre(Youth), an online Vietnamese dailynewspaper.
The current annotationagreement is around 90 percent.1 IntroductionTreebanks are used for training syntactic parsers,part-of-speech taggers, and word segmenters.These systems then can be used for applicationssuch as information extraction, machine transla-tion, question answering, and text summariza-tion.
Treebanks are also useful for linguistic stu-dies, for example the extraction of syntactic pat-terns or the investigation of linguistic phenome-na.
Recently, treebanks and other large corporahave become more important since the develop-ment of powerful machine learning methods.As mentioned above, Vietnamese is an isolat-ing language.
There is no word delimiter in Viet-namese.
The smallest unit in the construction ofwords is syllables.
Words can be single or com-pound.
Vietnamese script is invented based onLatin alphabet in which the expansion includesaccent characters and stressed accents.Since Vietnamese word order is quite fixed,we choose to use constituency representation ofsyntactic structures.
For languages with freerword order such as Japanese or Czech, depen-dency representation is more suitable.
We applyannotation scheme proposed by Marcus et al(1993).
This approach has been successfully ap-plied to a number of languages such as English,Chinese, Arabic, etc.For Vietnamese, there are three annotation le-vels including word segmentation, POS tagging,and syntactic labeling.
Word segmentation iden-tifies word boundary in sentences.
POS taggingassigns correct POS tags to words.
Syntacticlabeling recognizes both phrase-structure tagsand functional tags.
Our main target is to build acorpus of 10,000 syntactically-annotated sen-tences (trees) and an additional POS tagged dataset of 10,000 sentences.
Treebank construction isa very complicated task including major phases:investigation, guideline preparation, buildingtools, raw text collection, and annotation.
This isa repeated process involving especially threephases: annotation, guideline revision, and toolupgrade.
Raw texts are collected from a newspa-per source, the Youth online daily newspaper,with a number of topics including social and pol-itics.
We completed about 9,500 trees and 10,000POS tagged sentences.In order to deal with ambiguities occurring atvarious levels of annotation, we systematicallyapplied linguistic analysis techniques such asdeletion, insertion, substitution, questioning,transformation, etc.
Notions for analysis tech-niques are described in guideline.
These tech-niques are originated in literatures or proposed182by our group.
They are described with examples,arguments, and alternatives.
For automatic labe-ling tools, we used advanced machine learningmethods such as CRFs for POS tagging orLPCFGs for syntactic parsing.
These toolshelped us speed up labeling process.
Besides,tree editor was also very helpful.Our treebank project is a branch project of anational project which aims to develop basic re-sources and tools for Vietnamese language andspeech processing.
This national project is calledVLSP 1 .
In addition to treebank, other text-processing resources and tools include: Vietnam-ese machine readable dictionary, English-Vietnamese parallel corpus, word segmenter,POS tagger, chunker, and parser.
Treebank andtools are closely related.
Tools are trained usingtreebank data, and then they can be used in tree-bank construction.The rest of this paper is organized as follow:First, we present issues in Vietnamese wordsegmentation problem.
Second, POS tagging andsyntactic parsing are described.
Third, tools andannotation process are represented.
Fourth, wepresent annotation agreement evaluation.
Andlast, some conclusion is drawn.2 Word SegmentationThere are many approaches to word definition,for example based on morphology, based on syn-tax, based on semantics, or linguistic compari-son.
We consider words as syntactic atoms(Sciullo and Williams, 1987) according to thesense that it is impossible to analyze word struc-ture using syntactic rules, or that words are thesmallest unit which is syntactically independent.We choose this criterion partly because the firstapplication of word segmentation is for syntacticanalysis (build trees).According to application view, machine trans-lation researchers may argue that Vietnamesewords and foreign words should match each oth-er.
The problem is that there are so many possi-ble foreign languages which are different in vo-cabulary.
Dictionary editors may want to extractphrases from text which need to be explained inmeaning.
For this application, syntactic parserscan be used as tool for editors.
Parsers can ex-tract candidates for phrase/word entry.The following word types are considered inword segmentation phase: single words, com-pound words, repeated words, idioms, proper1 Vietnamese Language and Speech Processingnames, date/time, number expressions, foreignwords, abbreviations.Word segmentation ambiguity is the majorproblem annotators have to deal with.
Supposethat three words ?nh?
c?a?, ?s?c ?
?p?, and ?hi?us?ch?
are being considered.
Annotators need toidentify these combinations as words in:a. Nh?
c?a b?
b?n qu?b.
C?
?y gi?
g?n s?c ??p.c.
Ngo?i hi?u s?ch c?
b?n cu?n n?yAnd not words in:a. ?
nh?
c?a ng?
ch?ng ?
?ng g?
c?.b.
B?c n?y m?u s?c ?
?p h?n.c.
Ngo?i c?a hi?u s?ch b?o b?y la li?t.We used dictionaries as a reference.
In prac-tice, we consider dictionary words as candidatefor word segmentation and make decision usingcontext.3 POS Tagging and Syntactic Annota-tion Guidelines3.1 POS Tag SetFor European languages, word classes closelyrelate to morphological aspects such as gender,number, case, etc.
For Vietnamese, words areoften classified based on their combination abili-ty, their syntactic functions, and their generalmeaning.
We choose first two criteria, combina-tion ability and syntactic function, for POS tagset design.
Therefore our POS tag set will notcontain morphological information (number, as-pect, tense, etc.
), sub-categorization information(transitive/intransitive verbs, verbs followed byclauses, etc.
), and semantic information.3.2 Syntactic Tag SetOur tag set contains three tag types: constituencytags, functional tags, and null-element tags.
Weuse the tag H to label phrase head.
If a phrase hasmore than one head, connected by coordinationconjunctions or commas, then all heads are la-beled with H tag.
Other treebanks often does notuse head tag.
Therefore researchers on syntacticparsing (Collins, 1999) used heuristic rules todetermine CFG rules?
head.
Machine learningmethods also can be used (Chiang and Bikel,2002).
Null elements are often used for adjectiveclauses, ellipsis, passive voice, and topic.3.3 Sentence and Phrase Analysis Tech-niquesAnnotation of real text requires various tech-niques to be applied.
Ambiguity may occur inmany steps of analysis such as determining183phrase?s head, discriminating between possiblecomplements, discriminating between adjunctsand other sentence elements, etc.
Sentence analy-sis techniques include deletion, substitution, in-sertion, transformation, questioning.
These tech-niques exploit contextual information, wordcombination, word order, and functional wordsto disambiguation between possible structures.3.4 Linguistics IssuesThe problem of treebank construction can beconsidered as an application of linguistic theoriesthough treebanks can also be used for linguisticstudies.
However, there are still disagreementsamong linguists as to solutions for many linguis-tic issues.
For example, that the classifier noun isnoun phrase?s head or pre-modifier is controver-sial.
Another example, Vietnamese sentencestructure is subject-predicate or topic-comment isalso controversial.
Our treebank relies more onsubject-predicate structure.
Moreover, we chooselinguistic solutions most appropriate to our de-sign.4 ToolsWe designed a tool for supporting annotators inmost all phases of the annotation process.
Mainfunctions of our editor are as follows:- Edit and view trees in both text mode andgraphical mode- View log files, highlight modifications- Search by words or syntactic patterns- Predict errors (edit, spell, or syntax)- Compute annotation agreement and high-light differences- Compute several kinds of statisticsFor encoding the treebank, we have developedan exchange format named vnSynAF, a syntacticannotation framework which is conformed to thestandard framework SynAF of ISO.
The frame-work SynAF is built on top of an XML-basedannotation scheme which is recommended byISO for the encoding of treebanks2.
Our tool alsosupports bracketing representation (or Lisp style)of Penn English Treebank.
These formats can beconverted into each other.For the task of word segmentation, we usedvnTokenizer, a highly accurate segmenter whichuses a hybrid approach to automatically tokenizeVietnamese text.
The approach combines bothfinite-state automata technique, regular expres-2 ISO/CD/24615, Language Resource Management-Syntactic Annotation Framework (SynAF) TC37/SC 4N421, 22th Aug 2007, http://tc37sc4.org/documentssion parsing, and the maximal-matching strategywhich is augmented by statistical methods to re-solve ambiguities of segmentation (Phuong et al,2008).We used JVnTagger, a POS tagger based onConditional Random Fields (Lafferty et al,2001) and Maximum Entropy (Berger et al,1996).
This tagger is also developed under sup-ported of VLSP project.
Training data size is10,000 sentences.
Experiments with 5-fold crossvalidation showed that F1 scores for CRFs andMaxent are 90.40% and 91.03% respectively.A syntactic parser based on Lexicalized Prob-abilistic Context-free Grammars (LPCFGs) isanother tool we used.
Another group in VLSPcustomized Bikel?s parser3 for parsing Vietnam-ese text.
This parser is a well designed and easyto adapt to new languages.
The group imple-mented a Vietnamese language package whichhandles treebank, training, finding head of CFGrules, and word features.
This parser can outputtext with constituent tags only or both constituenttags and functional tags.5 Annotation Process and AgreementThere are three annotation levels: word segmen-tation, POS tagging, and syntactic labeling.
Sincethe word segmentation tool had been availablebefore the start of our project, it was used for thefirst annotation level (word segmentation) im-mediately.
As to the other annotation levels (POStagging and syntactic parsing), first several thou-sand sentences were labeled manually.
After thata POS tagger and a parser are trained bimonthly,then the annotation task becomes semi-automatic.
According to our annotation process,each sentence is annotated and revised by at leasttwo annotators.
The first annotator labels rawsentences or revises automatically-analyzed sen-tences.
Then the second annotator revises theoutput of the first annotator.
In addition, we alsocheck corpus by syntactic phenomena, for exam-ple direction words, questions, etc.
This processis supported by tool.
So there are many sentenceswhich are revised more than twice.Table 2 shows a number of important corpusstatistics such as sentence count, word count, andsyllable count for two data sets.
We completedthe POS tagged data set and will complete thesyntactically-labeled data set soon.
The averagesentence length is about 21.6 words.3 http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~dbikel/software.html184Data set Sentences Words SyllablesPOS tagged 10,368 210,393 255,237Syntacticallylabeled9,633 208,406 251,696Table 1.
Corpus statisticsAnnotation agreement measures how similartwo texts annotated independently by differentannotators are.
Since this problem is similar toparsing evaluation, we use parseval measure.First, syntactic constituents in the form (i, j, la-bel) are extracted from syntactic trees.
Then treecomparison problem is transformed into consti-tuent comparison.
We can compute three kindsof measurement: constituent and function simi-larity, constituent similarity, and bracket simi-larity.
By using this method, we can evaluateboth overall agreement and constituency agree-ment.Annotation agreement A between two annota-tors can be computed as follows:212CCCA??
?where C1 is the number of constituents in thefirst annotator?s data set, C2 is the number ofconstituents in the second annotator?s data set,and C is the number of identical constituents.Table 3 shows an example of constituent extrac-tion from trees.
From Table 3, we can compute:C1=6; C2=7; C=6; A=12/13=0.92 .1st annotator 2nd annotator(S (NP (Np H?ng))(VP (V ng?m)(NP (N m?a))(PP (E trong)(NP (N c?ngvi?n))))(.
.
))(S (NP (Np H?ng))(VP (V ng?m)(NP (NP (N m?a))(PP (E trong)(NP (Nc?ng vi?n)))))(.
.
))(1,6,S); (1,1,NP); (2,5,VP);(3,3,NP); (4,5, PP); (5,5,NP)(1,6,S); (1,1,NP); (2,5,VP);(3,3,NP); (3,5,NP); (4,5,PP); (5,5,NP)Table 2.
Constituent extraction from treesWe carried out an experiment involving 3 an-notators.
They annotated 100 sentences and theresult is shown in Table 4.Test A1-A2 A2-A3 A3-A1Full tags 90.32% 91.26% 90.71%Constituenttags92.40% 93.57% 91.92%No tags 95.24% 96.33% 95.48%Table 3.
Annotation agreement6 ConclusionsIn this paper, we presented our most up-to-dateresults on Vietnamese treebank construction.This project is coming to final stage.
We contin-ue to annotate more text, revise data by syntacticphenomenon and feedback from users.
We alsouse statistical techniques to analyze treebank datato find out errors and fix them.
We intend to pub-lish these data on LDC this year.AcknowledgmentsThis paper is supported by a national projectnamed Building Basic Resources and Tools forVietnamese Language and Speech Processing,KC01.01/06-10.ReferenceDi?p Quang Ban.
2005.
Ng?
ph?p ti?ng Vi?t (2 t?p).NXB Gi?o d?c.Cao Xu?n H?o.
2006.
Ti?ng Vi?t s?
th?o ng?
ph?pch?c n?ng.
NXB Khoa h?c X?
h?i.Nguy?n Minh Thuy?t v?
Nguy?n V?n Hi?p.
1999.Th?nh ph?n c?u ti?ng Vi?t.
NXB ?HQG H?
N?i.
?y ban Khoa h?c X?
h?i Vi?t Nam.
1983.
Ng?
ph?pti?ng Vi?t.
NXB Khoa h?c X?
h?i.Adam Berger, Stephen D. Pietra, and Vincent D. Pie-tra.
1996.
A maximum entropy approach to naturallanguage processing.
Computational Linguistics,(22-1).David Chiang and Daniel M. Bikel.
2002.
RecoveringLatent Information in Treebanks.
COLING.Michael Collins.
1999.
Head-Driven Statistical Mod-els for Natural Language Parsing.
PhD thesis, Uni-versity of Pennsylvania.John Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and Fernando Pe-reira.
2001.
Conditional random fields: Probabilis-tic models for segmenting and labeling sequencedata.
ICML.Mitchell P. Marcus et al Building a Large AnnotatedCorpus of English: The Penn Treebank.1993.
Computational Linguistics.L.
H. Phuong, N. T. M. Huyen, R. Azim, H. T. Vinh.A hybrid approach to word segmentation of Viet-namese texts.
Proceedings of the 2nd InternationalConference on Language and Automata Theoryand Applications, Springer LNCS 5196, Tarragona,Spain, 2008.Anna M.D.
Sciullo and Edwin Williams.
1987.
On thedefinition of word.
The MIT Press.Fei Xia et al Developing Guidelines and EnsuringConsistency for Chinese Text Annotation.
2000.COLING.185
