Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 90?98,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPSyntactic annotation of spoken utterances:A case study on the Czech Academic CorpusBarbora Hladk?
and Zde?ka Ure?ov?Charles University in PragueInstitute of Formal and Applied Linguistics{hladka, uresova}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractCorpus annotation plays an importantrole in linguistic analysis and computa-tional processing of both written andspoken language.
Syntactic annotationof spoken texts becomes clearly a topicof considerable interest nowadays,driven by the desire to improve auto-matic speech recognition systems byincorporating syntax in the languagemodels, or to build language under-standing applications.
Syntactic anno-tation of both written and spoken textsin the Czech Academic Corpus wascreated thirty years ago when no other(even annotated) corpus of spoken textshas existed.
We will discuss how muchrelevant and inspiring this annotation isto the current frameworks of spokentext annotation.1 MotivationThe purpose of annotating corpora is to cre-ate an objective evidence of the real usageof the language.
In general, it is easier to anno-tate written text ?
speech must be recorded andtranscribed to process it whilst texts are avail-able ?immediately?
; moreover, written textsusually obey standard grammar rules of thelanguage in questions, while a true transcript ofspoken utterances often does not.The theoretical linguistic research considersthe language to be a system of layers(e.g.
the Government and Binding theory(Chomsky, 1993), the Functional-GenerativeDescription of the language (Sgall, Haji?ov?,Panevov?
1986)).
In order to be a valuablesource of linguistic knowledge, the corpus an-notation should respect this point of view.The morphological and syntactic layersof annotation represent a standard in today?stext corpora, e.g.
the Penn Treebank,the family of the Prague Dependency Tree-banks, the Tiger corpus for German, etc.
Somecorpora contain a semantic annotation, such asthe Penn Treebank enriched by PropBank andNombank, the Prague Dependency Treebank inits highest layer, the Penn Chinese or thethe Korean Treebanks.
The Penn DiscourseTreebank contains discourse annotation.It is desirable that syntactic (and higher) an-notation of spoken texts respects the written-text style as much as possible, for obvious rea-sons: data ?compatibility?, reuse of tools etc.A number of questions arise immediately:How much experience and knowledge ac-quired during the written text annotation canwe apply to the spoken texts?
Are the annota-tion instructions applicable to transcriptions ina straightforward way or some modificationsof them must be done?
Can transcriptions beannotated ?as they are?
or some transformationof their inner structure into a written text struc-ture must precede the annotation?
The CzechAcademic Corpus will help us to find out theanswers.2 IntroductionThe first attempts to syntactically annotatespoken texts date back to the 1970s and 1980swhen the Czech Academic Corpus ?
CAC(Kr?l?k, Uhl?
?ov?, 2007) and the Swedish Tal-banken (Nilsson, Hall, Nivre, 2005) appeared.Talbanken was annotated with partial phrasestructures and grammatical functions, CACwith dependency-based structures and analyti-cal functions.
Thus both corpora can be re-garded as belonging to the pioneers in corpuslinguistics, together with the paper-only ?Quirkcorpus?
(Svartvik, Quirk, 1980; computerizedlater as the London-Lund Corpus).11When these annotation projects began in the 1960s,there were only two computerized manually annotatedcorpora available: the Brown Corpus of American Eng-90During the last twenty years the work oncreating new treebanks has increased consid-erably and so CAC and Talbanken have beenput in a different light, namely with regard totheir internal formats and annotation schemes.Given that, transformation of them becamenecessary: while the Talbanken?s transforma-tion concerned only the internal format, trans-formation of CAC concerned both internal for-mat and annotation scheme.Later, more annotated corpora of spokentexts have appeared, like the British Compo-nent of the International Corpus of English(ICE-GB, Greenbaum, 1996), the Fisher Cor-pus for English (Cieri et al, 2004), the Childesdatabase 2 , the Switchboard part of the PennTreebank (Godfrey et al, 1992), CorpusGesproken Nederlands (Hoekstra et al, 2001)and the Verbmobil corpora.3 The syntactic an-notation in these corpora is mostly automaticusing tools trained on written corpora or on asmall, manually annotated part of spoken cor-pora.The aim of our contribution is to answerthe question whether it is possible to annotatespeech transcriptions syntactically according tothe guidelines originally designed for text cor-pora.
We will show the problems that arise inextending an explicit scheme of syntactic an-notation of written Czech into the domain ofspontaneous speech (as found in the CAC).Our paper is organized as follows.
In Sec-tion 3, we give a brief description of the pastand present of the Czech Academic Corpus.The compatibility of the original CAC syntac-tic annotation with a present-day approachadopted by the Prague Dependency Treebankproject is evaluated in Section 4.
Section 5 isthe core of our paper.
We discuss phenomenatypical for spoken texts making impossible toannotate them according to the guidelines forwritten texts.
We explore a trade-off betweenleaving the original annotation aside and anno-tating from scratch, and an upgrade of theoriginal annotation.
In addition, we brieflycompare the approach adopted for Czech andthose adopted for other languages.lish and the LOB Corpus of British English.
Both containwritten texts annotated for part of speech.
Their size is 1mil.
tokens.2http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/grasp/3http://verbmobil.dfki.de/3 The Czech Academic Corpus: pastand present (1971-2008)The idea of the Czech Academic Corpus(CAC) came to life between 1971 and 1985thanks to the Department of MathematicalLinguistics within the Institute of Czech Lan-guage.
The discussion on the concept of aca-demic grammar of Czech, i.e.
on the conceptof CAC annotation, finally led to the tradi-tional, systematic, and well elaborated conceptof morphology and dependency syntax (?mi-lauer, 1972).
By the mid 1980s, a total of540,000 words of CAC were morphologicallyand syntactically manually annotated.The documents originally selected for theCAC are articles taken from a range of media.The sources included newspapers and maga-zines, and transcripts of spoken language fromradio and TV programs, covering administra-tive, journalistic and scientific fields.The original CAC was on par with it peers atthe time (such as the Brown corpus) in size,coverage, and annotation; it surpassed them inthat it contained (some) syntactic annotation.CAC was used in the first experiments of sta-tistical morphological tagging of Czech (Haji?,Hladk?, 1997).After the Prague Dependency Treebank(PDT) has been built (Haji?
et al, 2006), aconversion from the CAC to the PDT formathas started.
The PDT uses three layers of anno-tation: morphological, syntactic and ?tecto-grammatical?
(or semantic) layers (henceforthm-layer, a-layer and t-layer, respectively).The main goal was to make the CAC and thePDT compatible at the m-layer and the a-layer,and thus to enable integration of the CAC intothe PDT.
The second version of the CAC pre-sents such a complete conversion of the inter-nal format and the annotation schemes.
Theoverall statistics on the CAC 2.0 are presentedin Table 1.Annotation transformation is visualized inFigure 1.
In the areas corresponding to the cor-pora, the morphological annotation is symbol-ized by the horizontal lines and syntactical an-notation by the vertical lines.Conversion of the originally simple textualcomma-separated values format into the Pra-gue Markup Language (Pajas, ?t?p?nek, 2005)was more or less straightforward.Morphological analysis of Czech in theCAC and in the PDT is almost the same, ex-cept that the morphological tagset of CAC is91slightly more detailed.
Semi-automatic conver-sion of the original morphological annotationinto the Czech positional morphological tagsetwas executed in compliance with the morpho-logical annotation of PDT (Hana et al, 2005).Figure 1 shows that morphological annotationconversion of both written and spoken textswas done.The only major problem in this conversionwas that digit-only tokens and punctuationwere omitted from the original CAC since theywere deemed linguistically ?uninteresting?,which is certainly true from the point of viewof the original CAC?s purpose to give quantita-tive lexical support to a new Czech dictionary.Since the sources of the CAC documents wereno longer available, missing tokens had to in-serted and revised manually.Syntactic conversion of CAC was more de-manding than the morphological one.
In a pilotstudy, (Ribarov et al, 2006) attempt to answera question whether an automatic transforma-tion of the CAC annotation into the PDT for-mat (and subsequent manual corrections) ismore effective than to leave the CAC annota-tion aside and process the CAC?s texts by astatistical parser instead (again, with subse-quent manual correction).
In the end, the lattervariant was selected (with regrets).
No distinc-tion in strategy of written and spoken texts an-notation transformation was made.
However,spoken texts were eventually excluded fromthe CAC 2.0 (Figure 1).
Reasons for this areexplained in detail in the following two sec-tions.4 Syntax in the CAC and the PDT4.1 Syntactic annotation in the CACThe syntactic analysis of Czech in the CACand in the PDT is very much alike, but thereare phenomena in which the CAC syntacticannotation scenario differs from the PDT, eventhough both corpora are based on the samelinguistic theory (?milauer, 1969), i.e.
on thedependency grammar notion common to the?Prague school?
of linguists since the 1930s.However, the syntactic annotation differsbetween the two corpora.
The CAC works witha single syntactic layer, whereas the PDTworks with two independent (although inter-linked) syntactic layers: an analytical (syntac-tic) one and a tectogrammatical one (a-layerand t-layer, respectively).
In this paper, we arereferring to the a-layer of the PDT in our com-parisons unless specifically noted for thoseelements of the tectogrammatical annotationthat do have some counterpart in the CAC.Figure 1 Overall scheme of the CAC conver-sionStyle form4 #docs #sntncs(K)#tokens(K)Journalism w 52 10 189Journalism s 8 1 29Scientific w 68 12 245Scientific s 32 4 116administrative w 16 3 59administrative s 4 2 14Total w 135 25 493Total s 44 7 159Total w&s 180 32 652Table 1 Size of the CAC 2.0 partsThe CAC annotation scheme makes a sub-stantial distinction between two things: surfacesyntactic relations within a single clause aswell as syntactic relations between clauses in acomplex sentence.
These two types of syntac-tic information are captured by two types ofsyntactic tags.
(a) Word-level (intra-clausal) syntactic tag isa 6-position tag assigned to every non-auxilliary (?autosemantic?)
word within asingle clause, representing the intra-clausal dependency relations.
(b) Clause-level (intra-sentential) syntactictag is a 8-position tag assigned to the firsttoken of each clause in a complex sen-tence, representing the status (and possi-ble dependency) of the given clausewithin the given (complex) sentence.4Either written (w) or spoken (s) texts.writtenspokenwrittenCACPDT2.0writtenspokenCAC2.0theory  theoryguidelines  guidelines92The CAC thus annotates not only depend-ency relations within a single clause but alsodependency relations within a complex sen-tence.A description of the 6-position and the 8-position tags is given in Tables 2 and 3, respec-tively.
(Ribarov et al, 2006) gives a detaileddescription.4.2 Syntactic annotation in the PDTThe PDT a-layer annotates two main things:a dependency structure of the sentence andtypes of these dependencies.Representation of a structure of the sentenceis rendered in a form of a dependency tree, thenodes of which correspond to the tokens(words and punctuation) that form the sen-tence.
The type of dependency (subject, object,adverbial, complement, attribute, etc.)
is repre-sented by a node attribute called an ?analyticalfunction?
(afun for short; the most frequentvalues of this attribute are listed in Table 4).4.3 CAC vs. PDTComparing the CAC and the PDT syntacticannotation scenarios, we can see that the anno-tation of the major syntactic relations within asentence is very similar, from similar adapta-tions of the theoretical background down to thehigh-level corpus markup conventions.
Forexample, in both corpora the predicate is theclausal head and the subject is its dependent,unlike the descriptions we can find in the tradi-tional Czech syntactic theory (?milauer, 1969).Another (technical) similarity can be found inthe way the dependency types are encoded.
Inboth corpora, the dependency type label isstored at the dependent.
No confusion arisessince the link from a dependent to its governoris unique.However, the list of differences is actuallyquite long.
Some are minor and technical: forexample, in the PDT an ?overarching?
root ofthe sentence tree (marked AuxS) is alwaysadded, so that all other nodes appear as if theydepend on it.
Some differences are more pro-found and are described below.We are not going to list all the differences inindividual syntactic labels - they can be foundeasily by confronting Tables 2 and 4, but wewould like to draw the readers?
attention to themain dissimilarities between the CAC?s andthe PDT?s syntactic annotation scenarios.PunctuationThe first difference can be observed at firstglance: in CAC no punctuation marks can befound (as mentioned in Section 3).
While somemight question whether punctuation shouldever be part of syntax, in computational ap-proaches punctuation is certainly seen as avery important part of written-language syntaxand is thus taken into account in annotation(for important considerations about punctua-tion in spoken corpora, see Section 5).DigitsCAC leaves out digital tokens, even thoughthey are often a valid part of the syntacticstructure and can plausibly get various syntac-tic labels as we can see in the PDT annotation,where nothing is left out of the syntactic treestructure.Prepositions and function wordsThe next most significant difference is in thetreatment of prepositions (or function words ingeneral, see also the next paragraphs on con-junctions and other auxiliaries).
Whereas CACneither labels them nor even includes them inthe dependency tree, PDT at the a-layer, re-flecting the surface shape of the sentence,makes them the head of the autosemanticnodes they ?govern?
(and labels them with theAuxP analytical function tag).
The CAC wayof annotation (rather, non-annotation) ofprepositions is, in a sense, closer to the annota-tion scenario of the underlying syntactic layer(the t-layer) of the PDT, It is also reflected inthe adverbial types of labels (column 2 in Ta-ble 2) ?
these would all be labeled only as Advat the (surface-syntactic) a-layer of the PDT,but at the (deep) t-layer, they get a label from amix of approx.
70 functional, syntactic andsemantic labels.
Unfortunately, only sevensuch labels are used in the CAC, resulting inloss of information in some cases (adverbialsof aim, accompaniment, attitude, beneficiary,etc.
); the same is true for certain subtypes oftime and location adverbials, since they are notdistinguished in terms of direction, locationdesignation (on/under/above/next to and manyother), duration, start time vs. end time, etc.ConjunctionsFurther, subordinating as well as coordinat-ing conjunctions get only a sentential syntactictag in the CAC (if any), i.e.
they are labeled by93the 9-position tag but not by the word-level,intra-clausal syntactic tag.
In PDT, subordinat-ing and coordinating conjunctions get assignedthe analytical function value AuxC and Co-ord, respectively, and they are always in-cluded in the syntactic tree.
For subordinatingconjunctions, the CAC approach is again insome ways similar to the annotation scenarioof the tectogrammatical layer of PDT ?
de-pendencies between clauses are annotated butthe set of labels is much smaller than that of t-layer of the PDT, again resulting in a loss ofinformation.
For coordination and apposition,the difference is structural; while CAC marksan a coordination element with a specific label(value ?1?
in the column 6 of a word-level tagand the same value in column 8 of the clause-level tag, see Tables 2 and 3), PDT makes anode corresponding to the coordination (appo-sition) a virtual head of the members of thecoordination or apposition (whether phrasal orclausal).
CAC thus cannot annotate hierarchyin coordination and apposition without anotherloss of information, while PDT can.Reflexive particlesIn CAC, reflexive particles se/si are often leftunannotated, while PDT uses detailed labelsfor all occurrences.
Lexicalized reflexives(AuxT in the PDT), particles (AuxO) and re-flexive passivization (AuxR) and also certain(yet rare) adverbial usages (Adv) are not anno-tated in the CAC at all.
The only case whereCAC annotates them is in situations wherethey can be considered objects (accusative ordative case of the personless reflexive pronounsebe).Analytic verb formsIn CAC, no syntactic relation is indicated forauxiliary verbs, loosing the reference to theverb they belong to; in the PDT, they are put asdependents onto their verb, and labeled AuxVto describe their function.Special adverbs and particlesIn PDT, there are also syntactic labels forcertain type of ?special?
adverbials and parti-cles, such as rad?ji [better], z?ejm?
[probably],tak?
[also], p?ece [surely], jedin?
[only].
InCAC, dependencies and syntactic tags forthese tokens are missing.Other differences in both syntactic scenarioswill be described in the next section since theyare related to spoken language annotation.5 CAC syntactic annotation of spokenutterancesCurrent Czech syntactic theory is based al-most entirely on written Czech but spoken lan-guage often differs strikingly from the writtenone (M?llerov?, 1994).In the CAC guidelines, only the followingword-level markup specifically aimed at thespoken utterance structure is described:?
non-identical reduplication of a word(value ?7?
in column 6),?
identical reduplication of a word (value?8?
in column 6),?
ellipsis (value ?9?
or ?0?
in column 6).Let?s take this spoken utterance from CAC:CZ: A to jsou tro?ku, jedna je, jedna m?
sv?tloubudovu a druh?
m?
tmavou budovu, ony jsou um?s-t?ny v jednom, v jednom are?le, ale ta, to centrum,pat?ilo t?, bylo to v bloku Univerzity vl?msk?, a j?jsem se ptala na univerzit?, na, v Univerzit?
svo-bodn?, ?e, no a to p?eci oni nev?d?, to nanejv?
?, toprost?
jedin?, kdy?
je to Univerzita vl?msk?, tak otom oni p?ece nemohou nic v?d?t, a nic.(Lit.
: And they are a bit, one is, one has a lightbuilding and the second has a dark building, theyare placed in one, in one campus, but the, the cen-ter, it belonged to the, it was in a bloc of the Flem-ish University, and I asked  at the University, in, atthe Free University, that, well, and that surely theydon?t know, it at most, it simply only, if it is theFlemish University, so they surely cannot knowanything, and nothing.
)Words jsou [are] and ta [the] represent a non-identical reduplication of a word; that is whythey have been assigned the value ?7?
(as de-scribed above), while je [is], jednom [one], to[the] and nic [nothing] represent an identicalreduplication of a word, i.e.
they get the value?8?
(?identical reduplication of a word?).
Thedescription does not quite correspond to what acloser look at the data reveals: ?7?
is used tomark a reparandum (part of the sentence thatwas corrected by the speaker later), while ?8?
isused to mark the part that replaces the reparan-dum (cf.
also the ?EDITED?
nonterminal andthe symbols ?
[?, ?+?
and ?\?
in the Penn Tree-bank Switchboard annotation (Godfrey et al,1992).
Ellipsis (the value ?9?)
was assigned tothe words tro?ku [a bit] and t?
[to the].94However, our sample sentence containsmore phenomena typical for spoken languagethan CAC attempts to annotate, for example:- unfinished sentences (fragments), withapparent ellipsis: A to je tro?ku?
[Andthey are a bit?
],-  false beginnings (restarts): jedna je,jedna m?
[one is, one has],- repetition of words in the middleof sentence:  jsou um?st?ny v jednom,jednom are?le [they are placed in one, inone campus],- redundant and ungrammatically usedwords: ony jsou um?st?ny v jednom?,univerzit?, na,v Univerzit?
svobodn?,?
[, they are placed in one?
at the Univer-sity, in, at the Free University, ],- redundant deictic words: ?ale ta, to cen-trum?
[?but the, the center?
],- intonation fillers:  no [well],- question tags: na Univerzit?
svobodn?,?e [at the Free University, that],- redundant conectors: kdy?
je to Uni-verzita vl?msk?, tak to o tom [if it is theFlemish University, so they surely can-not know anything],- broken coherence of utterance, ?teared?syntactic scheme of proposition: ale ta,to centrum, bylo to v bloku [but the, thecenter, it belonged to the, it was in abloc],- syntactic errors, anacoluthon:  p?ecinemohu nic v?d?t, a nic.
[surely (I) can-not know anything, and nothing].The CAC syntactic scenario does not coverthese phenomena in the guidelines (and tagtables), and even if some of them would easilyfall in the reparandum/repair category (such asthe phrase jedna je, jedna m?
[one is, onehas]), which is seemingly included, it does notannotate them as such.
Moreover, these are justsome of the spoken language phenomena,taken from just one random utterance; a thor-ough look at the spoken part of the CAC re-veals that most of the well-known spoken lan-guage phenomena, e.g.
grammatically incoher-ent utterances, grammatical additions spokenas an afterthought, redundant co-references orphrase-connecting errors (Shriver, 1994, Fitz-gerald, 2009), are present in the texts but leftunnoticed.In comparison, however, the PDT coversnone of these typical spoken structures in thetext annotation guidelines (the main reasonbeing that it does not contain spoken materialin the first place).
Thus, at the surface-syntactic layer (the a-layer) of the PDT, thereare only limited means for capturing such spo-ken phenomena.For example, words playing the role of fill-ers could get the analytical function AuxO de-signed mostly for a redundant (deictic or emo-tive) constituent.Many phenomena typical for spoken lan-guage would get, according to the PDT guide-lines, the analytical function ExD (Ex-Dependent), which just ?warns?
of such typeof incomplete utterance structure where a gov-erning word is missing, i.e.
it is such ellipsiswhere the dependent is present but its govern-ing element is not.In Figure 2, we present an attempt to anno-tate the above spoken utterance using the stan-dard PDT guidelines.
The ?problematic?nodes, for which we had to adopt some arbi-trary annotation decisions due to the lack ofproper means in the PDT annotation guide-lines, are shown as dark squares.
For compari-son, we have used dashed line for those de-pendency edges that were annotated in theCAC by one of the spoken-language specifictags (values ?7?, ?8?, ?9?
in the column 6 of theoriginal annotation, see above at the beginningof Sect.
5),Most of the square-marked nodes do corre-spond well to the PDT labels for special caseswhich are used for some of the peripheral lan-guage phenomena (ExD, Apos and its mem-bers, several AuxX for extra commas, AuxYfor particles etc.
).It can also be observed that the dashed lines(CAC spoken annotation labels) correspond tosome of the nodes with problematic markup inthe PDT, but they are used only in clear casesand therefore they are found much more spar-ingly in the corpus.6 ConclusionCourage of the original CAC project?s teamdeserves to be reminded.
Having the experi-ence with the present spoken data processing,we do appreciate the initial attempts with thesyntactic annotation of spoken texts.95Given the main principles of the a-layer ofPDT annotation (no addition/deletion of to-kens, no word-order changes, no word correc-tions), one would have to introduce arbitrary,linguistically irrelevant rules for spoken mate-rial annotation with a doubtful use even if ap-plied consistently to the corpus.
Avoiding that,transcriptions currently present in the CACcould not be syntactically annotated usingthe annotation guidelines of the PDT.However, in the future, we plan to completethe annotation of the spoken language tran-scriptions, using the scheme of the so-called?speech reconstruction?
project (Mikulov?
etal., 2008), running now within the frameworkof the PDT (for both Czech and English)5.
Thisproject will enable to use the text-based guide-lines for syntactic annotation of spoken mate-rial by introducing a separate layerof annotation, which allows for ?editing?
of theoriginal transcript and transforming it thus intoa grammatical, comprehensible text.
The ?ed-ited?
layer is in addition to the original tran-script and contains explicit links between themat the word granularity, allowing in turn forobservations of the relation between the origi-nal transcript and its syntactic annotation(made ?through?
the edited text) without anyloss.
The scheme picks up the threads of thespeech reconstruction approach developed forEnglish by Erin Fitzgerald (Fitzgerald, Jelinek,2008).
Just for a comparison see our samplesentence (analyzed in Sect.
5) transformed intoa reconstructed sentence (The bold markingmeans changes, and parentheses indicate ele-ments left out in the reconstructed sentence.
).CZ: A (to) jsou tro?ku rozd?ln?,(jedna je,) jednam?
sv?tlou budovu a druh?
m?
tmavou budovu.
(,ony) Jsou um?st?ny (v jednom,) v jednom are?le,ale (ta,) to centrum (, pat?ilo t?,) bylo (to) v blokuUniverzity vl?msk?
(,) a j?
jsem se ptala na (univer-zit?, na, v) Univerzit?
svobodn?.
(, ?e, no a to p?ecioni nev?d?, to nanejv?
?, to prost?
jedin?,) Kdy?
jeto Univerzita vl?msk?, tak o tom oni p?ece nemo-hou nic v?d?t (, a nic).(Lit.
: And they are a bit different, one has a lightbuilding and the second has a dark building.
Theyare placed in one campus, but the center (, it be-longed to the, it) was in a bloc of the Flemish Uni-versity, and I asked at the (University, in, at the)Free University.
(, that, well, and that surely theydon?t know, it at most, it simply only,) If it is theFlemish University, so they surely cannot knowanything(, and nothing).
)5http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdtslFigure 2.
A syntactic annotation attempt(PDT-guidelines based) at the sample CACsentence.
The dashed edges are the only onescontaining some spoken-language specificCAC annotation, the others correspond asclose as possible to the PDT annotation sce-nario.
Square-shaped nodes mark the problem-atic parts (phenomena with no explicit supportin the PDT guidelines).96Governor DependencyrelationDependencysubtypes Direction OffsetOther1 2 3 4 5 6Tag Desc.
Tag Desc.
Tag Desc.1 Subject + Right 1-6 Coordinationtypes2 Predicate - Left7,8 Repetitions(for thespoken part)3 Attribute   9, 0 Ellipses4 Object5 Adverbial6 Clause core7 Trans.
type8 Independentclause member9 ParenthesisValuesspecificto thedependencyrelation(seecolumn 1)Distance betweenwords (two digitstring: for ex.
01denotesneighboringword)Table 2 Main word-level syntactic tags in the Czech Academic CorpusGoverning clause/word Clause ID Clause Type Subordination(dep.)
type Gov.
noun Gov.clauseClausal relation1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Tag Desc.
Tag Desc.
Tag Desc.1Simple    1 Coordination2 Main   2 Parenthesis1 Subject 3 Direct Speech2 Predicate 5 Parenthesis indirect speech3 Attribute 6 Introductoryclause4 Object 8 Parenthesis, in-troductory clause5 Local !
Structural errorTwo-digit id(uniquewithin asentence: forex.
91 de-notes thefirst sentence3 Sub-ordinated... ?.One-digitrelative posi-tion of a nounmodified bythe clauseAttributiveclauses onlyTwo-digitid of thegoverningclause... etc.Table 3 Clause-level syntactic tags in the Czech Academic CorpusAnalytic function DescriptionPred PredicateSb SubjectObj ObjectAdv AdverbialAtr AttributePnom Nominal predicate, or nom.
part of predicate with copula to beAuxV Auxiliary verb to beCoord Coordination nodeApos Apposition (main node)AuxT Reflexive tantumAuxR Reflexive,neither Obj nor AuxT (passive reflexive)AuxP Primary preposition, parts of a secondary prepositionAuxC Conjunction (subordinate)AuxO Redundant or emotional item, ?coreferential?
pronounExD A technical value for a node depending on a deleted item (ellipsis with dependents)Aux.., Atv(V),.. Other auxiliary tags, verbal complements, other special syntactic tagsTable 4 Dependency relation tags in the Prague Dependency Treebank97AcknowledgementWe gratefully acknowledge the support ofthe Czech Ministry of Education through thegrant No.
MSM-0021620838 and ME 838 andthe Grant Agency of Charles University inPrague through the grant No.
GAUK52408/2008.We wish to thank Jan Haji?, whose com-ments stimulated us to make our paper better.We are grateful to Petr Pajas for Figure 2 pre-senting a wide dependency tree.ReferencesChristopher Cieri, David Miller, Kevin Walker.2004.
The Fisher Corpus: a Resource for theNext Generations of Speech-to-Text.
In Pro-ceedings of the 4th LREC, Lisbon, Portugal, pp.69-71.John J. Godfrey, Edward C. Holliman, JaneMcDaniel.
1992.
SWITCHBOARD: Telephonespeech corpus for research and development,IEEE ICASSP, pp.
517-520.Erin Fitzgerald.
2009.
Reconstructing spontaneousspeech.
PhD thesis, Baltimore, Maryland.Erin Fitzgerald, Frederick Jelinek.
2008.
Linguisticresources for reconstructing spontaneous speechtext.
In LREC Proceedings, Marrakesh, Mo-rocco, pp.
1?8.Sidney Greenbaum (ed.).
1996.
Comparing EnglishWorldwide: The International Corpus of English.Oxford: Clarendon Press.Jan Haji?, Barbora Hladk?.
1997.
Tagging of inflec-tive languages: a comparison.
In Proceedings ofANLP'97, Washington, DC, pp.
136--143.Jan Haji?
et al 2006.
The Prague DependencyTreebank 2.0, (Linguistic Data Consortium,Philadelphia, PA, USA), Cat.
No.
LDC2006T01.Ji??
Hana, Daniel Zeman, Jan Haji?, Hana Hanov?,Barbora Hladk?, Emil Je??bek.
2005.
Manual forMorphological Annotation.
TR-2005-27, ?stavform?ln?
a aplikovan?
lingvistiky, MFF UK.Heleen Hoekstra, Michael Moortgat, Ineke Schuur-man, Ton van der Wouden 2001.
Syntactic An-notation for the Spoken Dutch Corpus Project.
InDaelemans, W.; Simaan, K.; Veenstra.
J.; Zavrel,J.
(eds.
): Computational Linguistics in the Neth-erlands 2000.
Amsterdam/New York, Rodopi,pp.
73-87.Noam Chomsky.
1993.
Lectures on Governmentand Binding: The Pisa Lectures.
Holland: ForisPublications, 1981.
Reprint.
7th Edition.
Berlinand New York: Mouton de Gruyter.Jan Kr?l?k, Ludmila Uhl??ov?.
2007.
The CzechAcademic Corpus (CAC), its history and pres-ence, In Journal of quantitative linguistics.
14(2-3): 265-285.Marie Mikulov?.
2008.
Rekonstrukce standard-izovan?ho textu z mluven?
?e?i v Pra?sk?m z?vis-lostn?m korpusu mluven?
?e?tiny.
Manu?l proanot?tory.
TR-2008-38, Institute of Formal andApplied Linguistics, MFF UK.Olga M?llerov?.
1994.
Mluven?
text a jeho syntak-tick?
v?stavba.
Academia, Praha.Jens Nilsson, Johan Hall, Joakim Nivre.
2005.MAMBA meets TIGER: Reconstructing a Tree-bank from Antiquity.
In Proceedings ofNODALIDA 2005 Special Session on Treebanksfor Spoken and Discourse, Copenhagen Studiesin Language 32, Joensuu, Finland, pp.
119-132Petr Pajas, Jan ?t?p?nek.
2005.
A Generic XML-based Format for Structured Linguistic Annota-tion and its Application to the Prague Depend-ency Treebank 2.0.
TR-2005-29, Institute ofFormal and Applied Linguistics, MFF UK.Kiril Ribarov, Alevtina B?mov?, Barbora Hladk?.2006.
When a statistically oriented parser wasmore efficient than a linguist: A case of treebankconversion, In Prague Bulletin of MathematicalLinguistics, 1 (86):21-38.Petr Sgall, Eva Haji?ov?, Jarmila Panevov?.
1986.The meaning of the sentence in its semantic andpragmatic aspects, ed.
by J. Mey.
Reidel,Dordrecht; Academia, Praha.Elisabeth Shriberg.
1994.
Preliminaries to a Theoryof Speech Disfluencies.
PhD thesis, University ofCalifornia, Berkeley.Jan Svartvik and Randolph Quirk.
1980.
A Corpusof English Conversation.
Lund.Vladim?r ?milauer.
1972.
Nauka o ?esk?m jazyku.Praha.Vladim?r ?milauer.
1969.
Novo?esk?
skladba.St?tn?
pedagogick?
nakladatelstv?.
Praha.98
