Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 52?55,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPDesigning a Language Game for Collecting Coreference AnnotationBarbora Hladka?
and Jir???
M??rovsky?
and Pavel SchlesingerCharles University in PragueInstitute of Formal and Applied Linguisticse-mail: {hladka, mirovsky, schlesinger@ufal.mff.cuni.cz}AbstractPlayCoref is a concept of an on-line lan-guage game designed to acquire a substan-tial amount of text data with the corefer-ence annotation.
We describe in detail var-ious aspects of the game design and dis-cuss features that affect the quality of theannotation.1 IntroductionCreating a collection of high quality data isresource-demanding regardless of the area of re-search and type of the data.
This fact has encour-aged a formulation of an alternative way of datacollection, ?Games With a Purpose?
methodology(GWAP), (van Ahn and Dabbish, 2008).
TheGWAP methodology exploits the capacity of In-ternet users who like to play on-line games.
Thegames are designed to generate data for applica-tions that either have not been implemented yet,or have already been implemented with a perfor-mance lower than human.
The players work sim-ply by playing the game - the data are generated asa by-product of the game.
The more enjoyable thegame is, the more users play it and the more datais acquired.The GWAP methodology was first used for on-line games with images (van Ahn and Dabbish,2004) and later with tunes (Law et al, 2007),1in which the players try to agree on a caption ofthe image/tune.
The popularity of these games isenormous and generates a huge amount of data.Onto games (Siorpaes and Hepp, 2008) broughtanother type of input data to GWAP ?
video andtext.2The situation with text is slightly different.
Onehas to read a text in order to identify its topics.1www.gwap.org2www.ontogame.orgReading texts takes more time than observing im-ages and the longer text, the worse.
Since thegame must be of a dynamic character, it is unimag-inable that the players would spend minutes read-ing an input text.
Therefore, it must be opened tothe players ?part?
by ?part?.So far, besides the Onto games, two more gameswith texts have appeared: What did Shannonsay?3, the goal of which is to help the speechrecognizer with difficult-to-recognize words, andPhrase Detectives4 (Kruschwitz, Chamberlain,Poesio, 2009), the goal of which is to identify re-lationships between words and phrases in a text.No information about their popularity has beenpublished yet.Motivated by the GWAP portal, the LGame por-tal5 dedicated to language games has been estab-lished.
The LGame portal has been opened withthe Shannon game, a game of intentionally hiddenwords in the sentence, where players guess them,and the Place the Space game, a game of wordsegmentation.2 CoreferenceCoreference occurs when several referring expres-sions in a text refer to the same entity (e.g.
per-son, thing, fact).
A coreferential pair is markedbetween subsequent pairs of the referring expres-sions.
A sequence of coreferential pairs referringto the same entity in a text forms a coreferencechain.
The coreferential pairs and the coreferencechains cover only the identity relation.Many projects for various languages on thecoreference annotation by linguists are running.The annotated data serve as a basis for furtherlinguistic study of coreference, and most impor-tantly also to train and test procedures for auto-matic coreference resolution, which is a task that3lingo.clsp.jhu.edushannongame.html4www.phrasedetectives.org5www.lgame.cz52many other applications can benefit from, e.g.
textsummarization, question answering, and informa-tion retrieval.Manual annotation is costly and time consum-ing.
We propose a design of the PlayCoref game?
to appear at the LGame portal ?
as an alternativeway of the coreference annotation collection, andmost importantly, of a substantially larger volumethan any expert annotation can ever achieve.3 The PlayCoref Game3.1 Game DesignWe prepare the game for Czech and English first.However, PlayCoref can be played in any lan-guage.The game is designed for two players.
Thegame starts with several first sentences of the doc-ument displayed in the players?
sentence window.According to the restrictions put on the membersof the coreferential pairs, parts of the text are un-locked (i.e.
they are active) while the other partsare locked (i.e.
they are inactive); both of themare graphically distinguished.
In our case, onlynouns and selected pronouns are unlocked.
Theplayers mark coreferential pairs between the in-dividual unlocked words in the text (no phrasesare allowed).
They mark the coreferential pairs asundirected links.During the session, the number of words theopponent has linked into the coreferential pairs isdisplayed to the player.
The number of sentenceswith at least one coreferential pair marked by theopponent is displayed to the player as well.
Re-vealing more information about the opponent?s ac-tions would affect the independency of the play-ers?
decisions.If the player finishes pairing all the relatedwords in the visible part of the document (visibleto him), he asks for the next sentence of the docu-ment.
It appears at the bottom of the player?s sen-tence window.
The player can remove pairs cre-ated before at any time and can make new pairs inthe sentences read so far.
The session goes on thisway until the end of the session time.
More thanone document can be present in the session.After the session, the players?
scores are calcu-lated and displayed.Instructions for the Players Instructions for theplayers must be as comprehensible and concise aspossible.
To mark a coreferential pair, no linguis-tic knowledge is required, thus no extensive anno-tation guidelines need to be formulated.
It is allabout the text comprehension ability.3.2 Game DataAny textual data can be used in the game, but thefollowing pre-processing steps are necessary.Tagging Most importantly, the morphologicaltagging (usually preceded by tokenization) isrequired to recognize part-of-speech categories(and sub-part-of-speech categories), in order tolock/unlock individual words for the game.
Formost languages, tagging is a well solved problem(e.g.
for Czech: the MORC?E tagger6, for English:TnT tagger7).Text Parts Locking In the game, we work withcoreferential links between the individual wordsonly.
The coreferential pairs that link larger textparts consisting of clauses or even several sen-tences are disregarded.
Their marking requires lin-guistic knowledge and extensive training.Our research shows that pronouns that are usu-ally members of such ?undesirable?
links canbe detected automatically in advance (at least inCzech).
They will get locked, so the players willnot consider them at all during the sessions.Automatic Coreference Resolution Accordingto the way we calculate the players scores (see be-low), an automatic procedure for coreference res-olution is required.
If this procedure works on adifferent layer than the surface layer, further auto-matic processing of the data may be needed.4 Data Quality4.1 Players?
ScoreWe want to obtain a large volume of data so wemust first attract the players and motivate themto play the game more and more.
As a rewardfor their effort we present scoring.
We hope thatthe players?
appetite to win, to confront with theiropponents and to place well in the long-term topscores tables correlates with our research aims andobjectives.Our goal is to ensure the highest quality of theannotation.
The scoring function should reflectthe game data quality and thus motivate the play-ers to produce the right data.
An agreement with6ufal.mff.cuni.cz/morce7www.coli.uni-saarland.de/?thorsten/tnt/53the manual expert annotation would be a perfectscoring function.
But the manual annotation is notavailable for all languages and above all, it is notour goal to annotate already annotated data.An automatic coreference resolution procedureserves as a first approximation for the scoringfunction.
Since the procedure does not work for?100%?, we need to add another component.
Wesuppose that most of the players will mark thecoreferential pairs reliably.
Then an agreementbetween the players?
pairs indicates correctness,even if the pair differs from the output of auto-matic coreference resolution procedure.
There-fore, the inter-player agreement will become thesecond component of the scoring function.
To mo-tivate the players to ask for more parts of the text(and not only ?tune?
links in the initially displayedsentences), the third component of the scoringfunction will award number of created coreferen-tial links.The players get points for their coreferentialpairs according to the equation ptsA = w1 ?ICA(A, acr) + w2 ?
ICA(A,B) + w3 ?
N(A)whereA andB are the players, acr is an automaticcoreference resolution procedure, ICA stands forthe inter-coder agreement that we can simultane-ously express either by the F-measure or Krippen-dorff?s ?
(Krippendorf, 2004), N is a contribu-tion of the number of created links, and weights0 ?
w1, w2 ?
1, w1, w2, w3 ?
R (summing to 1)are set empirically.The score is calculated at the end of the ses-sion and no running score is being presented dur-ing the session.
From the scientific point of view,the scores serve for the long term quality controlof the players?
annotation.4.2 Interactivity IssuesThe degree of a player-to-player interactivity con-tributes to the attractiveness of the game.
From theplayer?s point of view, the more interactivity, thebetter.
For example, knowing both his and the op-ponent?s running score would be very stimulatingfor the mutual competitiveness.
From the linguis-tics?
point of view, once any kind of interaction isallowed, statistically pure independency betweenthe players?
decisions is lost.
A reasonable trade-off between the interactivity and the independencymust be achieved.
Interactivity that would lead tocheating and decreasing the quality of the gamedata must be avoided.Allowing the players to see their own runningscore would lead to cheating.
The players mightadjust their decisions according to the changes inthe score.
Another possible extension of interac-tivity that would lead to cheating is highlightingwords that the opponent used in the coreferentialpairs.
The players might then wait for the oppo-nent?s choice and again, adjust their decisions ac-cordingly.
Such game data would be strongly bi-ased.
However, we still believe that a slight idea ofwhat the opponent is doing can boost inter-coderagreement and yet avoid cheating.
Revealing theinformation about the opponent?s number of pairsand number of sentences with at least one pair of-fers not zero but low interactivity, yet it will notharm the quality of the data.4.3 Post-ProcessingThe players mark the coreferential links undi-rected.
This strategy differs from the general con-ception of coreference being understood as eitherthe anaphoric or cataphoric relation depending onthe ?direction?
of the link in the text.
We believethat the players will benefit from this simplifica-tion and so will the data quality.
After the ses-sion, the coreference chains are automatically re-constructed from the coreferential pairs.4.4 EvaluationData with manually annotated coreference will beused to measure the game data quality.
We willalso study how much the scoring function suffersfrom the difference between the output of the au-tomatic coreference resolution procedure and themanual annotation (gold standard).
For Czech, wewill use the data from PDT 2.0, for English fromMUC-6.PDT 2.0 8 contains the annotation of grammat-ical and pronominal textual coreference.
Nomi-nal textual coreference is being annotated in PDT2.0 in an ongoing project (Nedoluzhko, 2007).Since the PDT 2.0 coreference annotation oper-ates on the so-called tectogrammatical layer (layerof meaning) and PlayCoref plays on the surfacelayer, the coreferential pairs must be projected tothe surface first.
The process consists of severalsteps and only a part of the coreferential pairs isactually projectable to the surface (links betweennodes that have no surface counterpart get lost).8ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.054MUC-6 9 operates on the surface layer.
Thisdata can be used in a much more straightforwardway.
The coreferential pairs are marked betweennouns, noun phrases, and pronouns and no projec-tion is needed.
The links with noun phrases aredisregarded.Evaluation Methods For the game data evalu-ation, well established methods for calculating aninter-annotator agreement in the coreference anno-tation will be employed.
These methods considera coreference chain to be a set of words and theymeasure the agreement on the membership of theindividual words in the sets (Passonneau, 2004).Weighted agreement coefficients such as Krippen-dorf?s ?
(Krippendorf, 2004) need to be used -sets of words can differ only partially, which doesnot mean a total disagreement.5 Further WorkAcquisition Evaluation Process The quality ofthe game annotation undergoes standard evalua-tion.
Apart from collecting, assuming the gamereaches sufficient popularity, long-term monitor-ing of the players?
outputs can bring into questionnew issues concerning the game data quality: Howmuch can we benefit from presenting a documentinto more sessions?
Should we prefer the output ofmore reliable and experienced players during theevaluation?
Should we omit the output of ?not-so-reliable?
players?Named Entity Recognition The step of thenamed entity recognition will be applied in thesubsequent stages of the project.
Multi-word ex-pressions that form a named entity (e.g.
?CzechNational Bank?)
will be presented to the playersas a single unit of annotation.
We also plan to im-plement a GWAP for named entity recognition.6 ConclusionWe have presented the concept of the PlayCorefgame, a proposed language game that brings anovel approach to collecting coreference annota-tion of texts using the enormous potential of In-ternet users.
We have described the design of thegame and discussed the issues of interactivity ofthe players and measuring the player score ?
is-sues that are crucial both for the attractiveness ofthe game and for the quality of the game data.
The9cs.nyu.edu/faculty/grishman/muc6.htmlgame can be applied on any textual data in any lan-guage, providing certain basic tools also discussedin the paper exist.
The GWAPs are open-endedstories so until the game is released, it is hard tosay if the players will find it attractive enough.
Ifso, we hope to collect a large volume of data withcoreference annotation at extremely low costs.AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully acknowledge the support of theCzech Ministry of Education (grants MSM-0021620838 and LC536), the Czech GrantAgency (grant 405/09/0729), and the GrantAgency of Charles University in Prague (projectGAUK 138309).ReferencesKlaus Krippendorf.
2004.
Content Analysis: An Introduc-tion to Its Methodology, second edition, chapter 11, Sage,Thousand Oaks, CA.Udo Kruschwitz, Jon Chamberlain, Massimo Poesio.
2009.
(Linguistic) Science Through Web Collaboration in theANAWIKI project.
In Proceedings of the WebSci?09: So-ciety On-Line, Athens, Greece, in press.Lucie Kuc?ova?, Eva Hajic?ova?.
2005.
Coreferential Relationsin the Prague Dependency Treebank.
In Proceedings ofthe 5th International Conference on Discourse Anaphoraand Anaphor Resolution, San Miguel, Azores, pp.
97?102.Edith.
L. M. Law et al 2007.
Tagatune: A game for musicand sound annotation.
In Proceedings of the Music In-formation Retrieval Conference, Austrian Computer Soc.,pp.
361?364.Anna Nedoluzhko.
2007.
Zpra?va k anotova?n??
rozs???r?ene?textove?
koreference a bridging vztahu?
v Praz?ske?mza?voslostn?
?m korpusu (Annotating extended coreferenceand bridging relations in PDT).
Technical Report, UFAL,MFF UK, Prague, Czech Republic.Rebecca J. Passonneau.
2004.
Computing Reliability forCoreference.
Proceedings of LREC, vol.
4, pp.
1503?1506, Lisbon.Katharina Siorpaes and Martin Hepp.
2008.
Games with apurpose for the Semantic Web.
IEEE Intelligent SystemsVol.
23, number 3, pp.
50?60.Luis van Ahn and Laura Dabbish.
2004.
Labelling imageswith a computer game.
In Proceedings of the SIGHI Con-ference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACMPress, New York, pp.
319?326.Luis van Ahn and Laura Dabbish.
2008.
Designing Gameswith a Purpose.
Communications of the ACM, vol.
51, No.8, pp.
58?67.Marc Vilain et al 1995.
A Model-Theoretic CoreferenceScoring Scheme.
Proceedings of the Sixth Message Un-derstanding Conference, pp.
45?52, Columbia, MD.55
