Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 125?129,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPWordNet and FrameNet as Complementary Resources for AnnotationCollin F. BakerInternational Computer Science Institute1947 Center St., Berkeley, California 94704collinb@icsi.berkeley.eduChristiane FellbaumPrinceton UniversityPrinceton, NJ 08540-5233fellbaum@princeton.eduAbstractWordNet and FrameNet are widely used lexi-cal resources, but they are very different fromeach other and are often used in completelydifferent ways in NLP.
In a case study in whicha short passage is annotated in both frame-works, we show how the synsets and defini-tions of WordNet and the syntagmatic infor-mation from FrameNet can complement eachother, forming a more complete representa-tion of the lexical semantic of a text than ei-ther could alone.
Close comparisons betweenthem also suggest ways in which they can bebrought into alignment.1 Background and motivationFrameNet and WordNet are two lexical databases thatare widely used for NLP, often in conjunction.
Becauseof their complementary designs they are obvious candi-dates for alignment, and an exploratory research projectwithin the larger context of the semantic annotation ofthe the American national Corpus is currently under-way.
We give specific illustrative examples of annota-tions against both resources, highlighting their differentcontributions towards a rich semantic analysis.WordNet (WN):1 (Fellbaum, 1998), is a large elec-tronic lexical database of English.
Originally con-ceived as a full-scale model of human semantic orga-nization, it was quickly embraced by the Natural Lan-guage Processing (NLP) community, a developmentthat guided its subsequent growth and design.
Word-Net has become the lexical database of choice for NLPand has been incorporated into other language tools,including VerbNet (Kipper et al, 2000) and OntoNotes(Hovy et al, 2006).
Numerous on-line dictionaries, in-cluding Google?s ?define?
function, rely significantlyon WordNet.WordNet?s coverage is sometimes criticized as be-ing too fine-grained for automatic processing, thoughits inventory is not larger than that of a standard col-legiate dictionary.
But the present limitation of auto-matic WSD cannot be entirely blamed on existing sys-tems; for example, Fellbaum and Grabowski (1997)1http://wordnet.princeton.eduhave shown that humans, too, have difficulties identi-fying context-appropriate dictionary senses.
One an-swer is clearly that meanings do not exist outside con-texts.
Furthermore, although WN does contain ?sen-tence frames?
such as ?Somebody ?-s something?for a transitive verb with a human agent, it provideslittle syntagmatic information, except for what canbe gleaned from the example sentences.
WordNet?sgreat strength is its extensive coverage, with more than117,000 synonym sets (synsets), each with a definitionand relations to other synsets covering almost all thegeneral vocabulary of English.FrameNet (FN):2 (Fontenelle, 2003) is a lexicalresource organized not around words per se, but se-mantic frames (Fillmore, 1976): characterizations ofevents, relations, and states which are the conceptualbasis for understanding groups of word senses, calledlexical units (LUs).
Frames are distinguished by theset of roles involved, known as frame elements (FEs).Much of the information in the FrameNet lexicon isderived by annotating corpus sentences; for each LU,groups of sentences are extracted from a corpus, sen-tences which collectively exemplify all of the lexico-graphically relevant syntactic patterns in which the LUoccurs.
A few examples of each pattern are annotated;annotators not only mark the target word which evokesthe frame in the mind of the hearer, but also markthose phrases which are syntactically related to the tar-get word and express its frame elements.
FrameNet ismuch smaller than WordNet, covering roughly 11,000LUs, but contains very rich syntagmatic informationabout the combinatorial possibilities of each LU.Given these two lexical resources with differentstrengths, it seems clear that combining WN and FNannotation will produce a more complete semantic rep-resentation of the meaning of a text than either couldalone.
What follows is intended as an example of howthey can usefully be combined.2 Case Study: Aegean HistoryThe text chosen for this study is a paragraph from theAmerican National Corpus3 (Ide et al, 2002), from theBerlitz travel guide to Greece, discussing the history of2http://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu3http://www.americannationalcorpus.org125Greece, specifically the Aegean islands after the fall ofByzantium to the Crusaders.
Although brief, its threesentences provide ample material to demonstrate someof the subtlety of both WN and FN annotation:(1) While Byzantine land was being divided, therewas no one in control of the seas, so pirates raidedtowns on many of the islands.
(2) To counter this, thepopulations moved from their homes on the coast andbuilt settlements inland, out of sight of the raiding par-ties.
(3) This created a pattern seen today throughoutthe Aegean of a small port (skala) which serves an in-land settlement or chora, making it easier to protect theisland from attack.Below, we present three tables containing the anno-tation of both the WordNet synsets for each open class(content) word in the text4 and the FrameNet framesand the fillers of the frame elements in each sentence.We also provide brief notes on some interesting fea-tures of the semantics of each sentence.2.1 Discussion of Sentence 1, shown in Table 1 onpage 4 :(2) Information about what the land was separated intois not given in the sentence nor clear from the context,so the PARTS FE has been annotated as ?indefinite nullinstantiated?
(INI).
Clearly this is an intentional action,but because the verb is passive, the agent can be (andis) omitted, so the AGENT FE is marked as ?construc-tionally null instantiated?
(CNI).5(4) In addition to FEs and their phrase types andgrammatical functions, FrameNet annotates a limitedset of syntactic facts: here, in is annotated as at ?sup-port preposition?, allowing control to function as an ad-jectival, and was as a copula, allowing no one to fill theExternal syntactic position of in control.
(5) Since FN is based on semantic frames, annota-tion of nouns is largely limited to those which expressevents (e.g.
destruction), relations (brother), or states(height).
For the most part, nouns denoting artifactsand natural kinds evoke relatively uninteresting frames,and hence relatively few of them have been includedin FN.
However, there are three such instances in thissentence, seas, islands (9), and towns (12); In all threecases, the frame-evoking noun also denotes the filler ofthe FE LOCALE.
(6) At the top level of organization, so evokesthe Causation frame.
Actually, it is misleading tosimply annotate control of the seas in the framesBe in control and Natural features; here, we regardseas as metonymic for ?ship traffic on the seas?, butneither the FN annotation nor the WN definition indi-cates this.
(7) The noun pirates evokes the very rich frame of4Note that for reasons of space, many WN examples havebeen omitted.5In fact, the previous sentence describes the sack of Con-stantinople by the Crusaders, so they can be inferred to be thedividers of the lands, as well.Piracy, and also denotes the filler of the FE PERPE-TRATOR, but that is the only FE filled in in that frame.Instead, pirates actually fills the ASSAILANT FE of theAttack frame, (8); the main idea is about the raids, notthe piratical acts on the seas that the same people have ahabit of committing.
Note that the WN definition takesthe view that raiding coastal towns is a typical part ofpiracy.
(10) Political locales roughly corresponds to?Geopolitical entity?
in named entity recognition.Despite the relatively fine level of detail of the anno-tations, there are still many important semantic featuresof the sentence not represented in FrameNet or Word-Net.
For example, there is no treatment of negation cumquantification, no representation of the fact that therewas no one in control should mean that Be in controlis not happening.2.2 Discussion of Sentence 2, shown in Table 2 onpage 5:The two highest level predicates in this sentence aremoved (2) and built (6), in the frames Motion andBuilding respectively; since they are conjoined, thephrase to counter this fills the FE PURPOSE in bothframes.
6 In (2) the GOAL FE of the Motion is markedas definite null instantiation (DNI), because, althoughit is not expressed in the VP headed by moved, it isrecoverable from context (i.e.
the second VP).
(4) Note that FN puts this sense of home in the Build-ings frame7, but WN has a less specific definition.
(6)Coast is a Relational natural feature because it is de-fined in relation to another natural feature; a coasthas to be the coast of some land mass, although herethe land mass is DNI.
(9) Inland both evokes a Loca-tive relation and denotes the GROUND FE.
(10) FN andWN agree on a sense of sight denoting the range of vi-sion.
(11) WN?s example sentence for raid is preciselyabout pirates.2.3 Discussion of Sentence 3 shown in Table 3 onpage 5:(2) The concept of ?pattern?
is very slippery?the ar-rangement of port and inland settlement is both spa-tial and temporal in terms of building practices overcenturies.
(3) This sense of see can refer to the areain which something is seen, the time, or the condi-tions under which it can be seen; these are subsumedby the FE STATE.
(4) Today expresses a Tempo-ral collocation and denotes the LANDMARK.
(Repe-titions of the words settlement and island have beenomitted.)
The interrelation among (7), (10), (11) and(12) is rather complex: the arrangement in which theport serves the settlement has the making easier as aresult.
The arrangement is also the CAUSE FE of mak-ing.
Easier in the Difficulty frame requires an EX-6This is a peripheral FE, common to all frames whichinherit from the Intentionally act frame.7Not to be confused with the Building frame, in (7).126PERIENCER FE which is not specified here (thus INI)and an ACTIVITY FE, to protect.
The FE PROTEC-TION (which can be a person, a thing, or an activity) ismarked CNI, because it is the external argument of theinfinitive.3 Towards an alignment of WordNet andFrameNetWe hope these examples have shown that finding re-lated WN and FN senses can contribute to text under-standing.
Fellbaum and Baker (2008) discuss the re-spective strengths and weaknesses of WN and FN aswell as their complementary advantages that could befruitfully exploited aligning the two resources.
Workof this type is actually underway; researchers are semi-automatically annotating selected lemmas in the Amer-ican National Corpus with both FN frames and WNsenses.
The lemmas are chosen so as to reflect the partof speech distribution in text and to represent a spec-trum of frequency and polysemy.
A preliminary groupof instances are manually tagged by trained annotators,and then the teams working on WN and FN annota-tion discuss and resolve discrepancies among the tag-gers before the remaining tokens are annotated.Three cases sum up the annotation and alignmentprocess:(1) In the very unlikely case that a synset and a framecontain exactly the same set of lexemes, their corre-spondence is simply recorded.
(2) In the more common case in which all the wordsin a synset are a subset of those in the frame, or all thewords in a frame are a subset of those in the synset, thisfact is also recorded.
(3) In case two synsets are subsets of the LUs of oneframe, we will record this and note that it as a possiblecandidate for collapsing the synsets, respectively.FN and WN are two comprehensive but comple-mentary lexical resources.
Both WN?s paradigmaticand FN?s syntagmatic approach to lexical semantics areneeded for a rich representation of word meaning incontext.
We have demonstrated how text can be an-notated against both resources to provide the founda-tion for deep language understanding and, as an im-portant by-product, help to align the word senses ofthese widely-used resources.
Of course, these ex-amples were manually annotated, but automatic sys-tems for word-sense disambiguation (largely based onWordNet) and FrameNet role labeling (Johansson andNugues, 2007; Coppola et al, 2008) are improvingrapidly.
The project just described is intended to pro-vide more gold-standard annotation (both WN and FN)to help train automatic systems for both WN and FNannotation, which are clearly related tasks e.g.
(Prad-han et al, 2007; Erk, 2005).AcknowledgmentWe gratefully acknowledge support from the NationalScience Foundation (#IIS-0705199) for the work re-ported here.ReferencesBonaventura Coppola, Alessandro Moschitti, SaraTonelli, and Giuseppe Riccardi.
2008.
Automaticframenet-based annotation of conversational speech.In Proceedings of IEEE-SLT 2008, pages 73?76,Goa, India, December.Katrin Erk.
2005.
Frame assignment as word sensedisambiguation.
In Proceedings of IWCS 6, Tilburg.Christiane Fellbaum and Collin F. Baker.
2008.
CanWordNet and FrameNet be made ?interoperable?
?In Jonathan Webster, Nancy Ide, and Alex ChengyuFang, editors, Proceedings of The First InternationalConference on Global Interoperability for LanguageResources, pages 67?74, Hong Kong.
City Univer-sity.Christiane Fellbaum and J. Grabowski.
1997.
Anal-ysis of a hand-tagging task.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL/Siglex workshop.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Christane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet.
Anelectronic lexical database.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge/Mass.Charles J. Fillmore.
1976.
Frame semantics and thenature of language.
Annals of the New York Academyof Sciences, 280:20?32.Thierry Fontenelle, editor.
2003. International Jour-nal of Lexicography?Special Issue on FrameNet,volume 16.
Oxford University Press.Eduard H. Hovy, Mitch Marcus, Martha Palmer,Sameer Pradhan, Lance Ramshaw, and Ralph-Weischedel.
2006.
OntoNotes: The 90% solution.In Proceedings of HLT-NAACL 2006, New York.Nancy Ide, Randi Reppen, and Keith Suderman.
2002.The American National Corpus: More than theweb can provide.
In Proceedings of the ThirdLanguage Resources and Evaluation Conference(LREC), pages 839?44, Las Palmas, Canary Islands,Spain.Richard Johansson and Pierre Nugues.
2007.
LTH:Semantic structure extraction using nonprojectivedependency trees.
In Proceedings of the FourthInternational Workshop on Semantic Evaluations(SemEval-2007), pages 227?230, Prague, Czech Re-public, June.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Karin Kipper, Hoa Trang Dang, and Martha Palmer.2000.
Class-based construction of a verb lexicon.
InSeventeenth National Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence, Austin, TX.
AAAI-2000.127Sameer Pradhan, Edward Loper, Dmitriy Dligach, andMartha Palmer.
2007.
Semeval-2007 task-17: En-glish lexical sample, srl and all words.
In Proceed-ings of the Fourth International Workshop on Se-mantic Evaluations (SemEval-2007), pages 87?92,Prague, Czech Republic, June.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.1.
Frame: Political locales: [CONTAINER POSSESSORByzantine] [LOCALE LAND]WN: (adj) Byzantine (of or relating to or characteristicof the Byzantine Empire or the ancient city of Byzan-tium) (n) domain, demesne, land (territory over whichrule or control is exercised) ?his domain extended intoEurope?
; ?he made it the law of the land?2.
Frame: Separating: [WHOLE Byzantine land] wasbeing DIVIDED [AGENT CNI] [PARTS INI]WN: (v) divide, split, split up, separate, dissever, carveup (separate into parts or portions) ?divide the cake intothree equal parts?
; ?The British carved up the OttomanEmpire after World War I?)3.
Frame: Existence: [TIME While Byzantine land wasbeing divided], THERE WAS [ENTITY no one in con-trol of the seas]4.
Frame: Be in control: there [was COPULA][CONTROLLING ENTITY no one] [in SUPPORT] CON-TROL [DEPENDENT ENTITY of the seas]WN: (n) control (power to direct or determine) ?undercontrol?)5.
Frame: Natural features: [LOCALE SEAS]WN: (n) sea (a division of an ocean or a large body ofsalt water partially enclosed by land)6.
Frame: Causation:[CAUSE While Byzantine land was being divided, therewas no one in control of the seas], SO [EFFECT piratesraided towns on many of the islands]7.
Frame: Piracy: [PERPETRATOR PIRATES]WN: (n) pirate, buccaneer, sea robber, sea rover (some-one who robs at sea or plunders the land from the seawithout having a commission from any sovereign na-tion)8.
Frame: Attack: [ASSAILANT pirates] RAIDED[VICTIM towns on many of the islands]WN: (v) foray into, raid (enter someone else?s territoryand take spoils) ?The pirates raided the coastal villagesregularly?)9.
Frame: Political locales: [LOCALE TOWNS][RELATIVE LOCATION on many of the islands].WN: (n) town (an urban area with a fixed boundary thatis smaller than a city)10.
Frame: Locative relation: [FIGURE towns] ON[GROUND many of the islands]11.
Frame: Quantity: [QUANTITY MANY][INDIVIDUALS of the islands]12.
Frame: Natural features: [LOCALE ISLANDS]WN: (n) island (a land mass (smaller than a continent)that is surrounded by water)Table 1: FN/WN Annotation of sentence 11281.
Frame: Thwarting: To COUNTER [ACTION this],[PREVENTING CAUSE the populations moved .
.
.
raidingparties]WN:(v) anticipate, foresee, forestall, counter (act inadvance of; deal with ahead of time)2.
Frame: Aggregate: [AGGREGATE POPULATIONS]WN: (n) population (the people who inhabit a terri-tory or state) ?the population seemed to be well fed andclothed?3.
Frame: Motion:[PURPOSE To counter this], [THEME the populations]MOVED [SOURCE from their homes on the coast][GOAL DNI]WN: (v) move (change residence, affiliation, or placeof employment)4.
Frame: Buildings: [BUILDING HOMES] [PLACE onthe coast]WN: (n) home, place (where you live at a particulartime) ?deliver the package to my home?5.
Frame: Locative relation: [FIGURE their homes] ON[GROUND the coast]6.
Frame: Relational natural features:[FOCAL FEATURE COAST] [RELATIVE LOCATIONDNI]WN: (n) seashore, coast, seacoast, sea-coast (the shoreof a sea or ocean)7.
Frame: Building:[PURPOSE To counter this], [AGENT the populations].
.
.
BUILT [CREATED ENTITY settlements] [PLACE in-land], [PLACE out of sight of the raiding parties].WN: (v) construct, build, make (make by combiningmaterials and parts)8.
Frame: Locale by use: [LOCALE SETTLE-MENTS]WN: (n) village, small town, settlement (a communityof people smaller than a town)9.
Frame: Locative relation: built [FIGURE settle-ments] [GROUND INLAND]WN: (adv) inland (towards or into the interior of a re-gion) ?the town is five miles inland?10.
Frame: Range: .
.
.
out of [DISTANCE SIGHT][PARTICIPANT of the raiding parties]WN: (n) sight, ken (the range of vision) ?out of sight ofland?11.
Frame: Attack: RAIDING [ASSAILANT parties]WN: (v) foray into, raid (enter someone else?s territoryand take spoils) ?The pirates raided the coastal villagesregularly?12.
Frame: Aggregate: [AGGREGATEPROPERTY raid-ing] [AGGREGATE PARTIES]WN: (n) party, company (a band of people associatedtemporarily in some activity) ?they organized a party tosearch for food?Table 2: FN/WN Annotation of sentence 21.
Frame: Creating:[CAUSE This] CREATED [CREATED ENTITY a patternseen today .
.
.
from attack].WN: (v) create (bring into existence) ?He created a newmovement in painting?2.
Frame: Pattern: PATTERN [DESCRIPTOR seen to-day throughout the Aegean] [ENTITIES of a small port(skala) which serves an inland settlement or chora]WN: (n) practice, pattern (a customary way of opera-tion or behavior) ?they changed their dietary pattern?3.
Frame: Perception experience: [PHENOMENON apattern] SEEN [TIME today] [STATE throughout theAegean] [PHENOMENON of a small port .
.
.
from attack].
[PERCEIVER PASSIVE CNI]WN: (v) witness, find, see (perceive or be contempora-neous with) ?You?ll see a lot of cheating in this school?4.
Frame: Temporal collocation: [TRAJECTOR EVENTa pattern seen] [LANDMARK EVENT TODAY][TRAJECTOR EVENT throughout the Aegean.
.
.
attack]WN: (n) today (the present time or age) ?the worldof today?
(n) Aegean, Aegean Sea (an arm of theMediterranean between Greece and Turkey.
.
.
)5.
Frame: Dimension: [DIMENSION SMALL] [OBJECTport]WN: (adj) small, little (limited or below average innumber or quantity or magnitude or extent)6.
Frame: Locale by use: [DESCRIPTOR small][LOCALE PORT]WN: (n) port (a place (seaport or airport) where peopleand merchandise can enter or leave a country)7.
Frame: Assistance: [HELPER a small port (skala)][HELPER which] SERVES [BENEFITED PARTY an in-land settlement or chora], [RESULT making it easier toprotect the island from attack]WN: (v) service, serve (be used by; as of a utility) ?Thesewage plant served the neighboring communities?8.
Frame: Locative relation: [GROUND INLAND][FIGURE settlement]10.
Frame: causation: [CAUSE a small port (skala)which serves an inland settlement or chora], MAK-ING it [EFFECT easier to protect the island from attack.
][AFFECTED DNI]WN: chora: not in WordNet (v) make, get (give certainproperties to something) ?This invention will make youa millionaire?11.
Frame: Difficulty: EASIER [ACTIVITY to protectthe island from attack].
[EXPERIENCER INI]WN: (adj) easy (posing no difficulty; requiring little ef-fort) ?an easy job?
; ?an easy victory?12.
Frame: Protecting: [PROTECTION CNI] PROTECT[ASSET the island] [DANGER from attack]WN: (v) protect (shield from danger, injury, destruc-tion, or damage) ?Weatherbeater protects your rooffrom the rain?14.
Frame: Attack: from ATTACK.
[ASSAILANT DNI]WN: (n) attack, onslaught, onset, onrush ((military) anoffensive against an enemy (using weapons)) ?the at-tack began at dawn?Table 3: FN/WN Annotation of sentence 3129
