Proceedings of the Third Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 146?149,Suntec, Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPOnline Search Interface for the Sejong Korean-Japanese BilingualCorpus and Auto-interpolation of Phrase AlignmentSanghoun SongKorea Univ.Anam-dong, Sungbuk-gu, Seoul,South Koreasanghoun@gmail.comFrancis BondNICT Language Infrastructure Group2-2-2 Hikaridai, Seika-cho,Soraku-gun, Kyoto, Japanbond@ieee.orgAbstractA user-friendly interface to search bilingualresources is of great help to NLP developers aswell as pure-linguists.
Using bilingual re-sources is difficult for linguists who are unfa-miliar with computation, which hampers capa-bilities of bilingual resources.
NLP developerssometimes need a kind of workbench to checktheir resources.
The online interface this paperintroduces can satisfy these needs.
In order toimplement the interface, this research dealswith how to align Korean and Japanese phras-es and interpolates them into the original bi-lingual corpus in an automatic way.1 IntroductionBilingual or multilingual corpora are significantlanguage resources in various language studies,such as language education, comparative linguis-tics, in particular, NLP.
What holds the key posi-tion in bilingual resources is how to align lin-guistic units between two languages.
In this con-text, three fundamental questions about how toharness bilingual resources can be raised; (i)which linguistic unit or level should correspondto those in the corresponding language?
(ii)which method should be employed for align-ment?
(iii) which environments should be pre-pared for users?This paper covers these matters related to bi-lingual resources and their use.
The languageresource that this paper handles is the Sejong Ko-rean-Japanese Bilingual Corpus (henceforthSKJBC).
1  The original version of the SKJBC,constructed in a XML format, aligns sentence by1 The SKJBC is readily available for academic and researchpurposes only.
For information on license conditions andothers, please contact the National Academy of Korean Language(http://www.korean.go.kr/eng/index.jsp).sentence or paragraph by paragraph.
This re-search re-organizes and re-aligns the originalversion using GIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2003) andMoses (Koehn et al 2007), and interpolates thealigning information into each original file auto-matically.
Turning to the interface, this researchconverts the whole data into a database system(MySQL) to guarantee data integrity.
Buildingon the database, this research implements an on-line search system accessible without any restric-tions; dubbed NARA2.2 The SKJBCThe SKJBC had been constructed as a subset ofthe Sejong project3 which had been carried outfrom 1998 to 2007, sponsored by the Koreangovernment.
The SKJBC is divided into twoparts; one is the raw corpus annotated only withsentence aligning indices, the other is the POS-tagged corpus, in which the tag set for Koreancomplies with the POS-tagging guideline of theSejong project, and the morphological analysisfor Japanese is based on ChaSen (Matsumoto etal., 1999).
This paper is exclusively concernedwith the latter, because it is highly necessary forthe phrase alignment to make use of well-segmented and well-refined data.
Table 1 illu-strates the basic configuration of the SKJBC.Since the prime purpose of the Sejong projectwas to build up balanced corpora, the SKJBCconsists of various genres, as shown in Figure 1.This makes a clear difference from other bilin-gual resources where the data-type is normallyhomogeneous (e.g.
newspapers).
Moreover, sinceit had been strictly prohibited to manipulate the2 The name, NARA, has meanings in both Korean and Jap-anese.
It is a local name in Japan; it also means ?a country?in Korean.
Since the name can properly stands for this re-search?s goal, the name has been used as a project title.3 http://www.sejong.or.kr/eindex.php146original source for any reasons, the data inSKJBC fully reflect on the real usage of Korean.These characteristics, however, sometimes workagainst computational implementation.
Bi-textsdo not always correspond to each other sentenceby sentence; we can find out that there are anumber of cases that a sentence matches two ormore sentences in the other language or the cor-responding sentences might be non-existent.
Inother words, it is almost impossible to align allthe sentences only one-to-one.
These cases even-tually produce the multiple-to-multiple alignment,unless annotators discard or separate them artifi-cially.
No artificial manipulation was allowedunder construction, the SKJBC contains quite afew pairs in a multiple-to-multiple relation.Korean Japanesetype token type tokendocument 50 ( KoJa : 38, JaKo : 12 )sentence 4,030  4,038word 21,734  43,534  10,452 93,395 morpheme 9,483  101,266  10,223Table 1.
Configuration of the SKJBCFigure 1.
Composition of the SKJBC3 AlignmentThis section is connected with the first questionraised in section 1; the proper level of alignment.Most bilingual corpora, including the SKJBC,have been constructed sentence by sentence de-spite shortcomings, because it costs too muchtime and effort to annotate word or phrase cor-respondence by hand (Abeill?, 2003).
To anno-tate more specified alignment between two lan-guages is to enhance the utility value of the re-source; this research, first of all, considers howto align at the level of word and phrase.Multiple Alignments: Because of the prob-lem mentioned in the previous section, the pairswhich do not match in a one-to-one relation wereexcluded from the target of alignment.
Through-out a preliminary experiment, it was born outthat, if they remained, they led to a worse result.After casting them away, the number of targetsentences is 3,776, which account for about 86percent of the whole data.Word vs.
Phrase: To make the units equiva-lent as far as possible is the crucial factor inaligning as accurately as possible.
One of themain issues that should be taken into account inaligning Korean and Japanese phrases is wordboundary.
Though Korean and Japanese sharelots of features, the boundary of word or phraseis inconsistent with each other.
The general con-cept to segment words in Korean is the so-calledejeol, tantamount to word-spacing, whereas thatin Japanese is bunsetsu, what we say.
The differ-ence stems from the different writing style; Ko-rean inserts spacing between words, while Japa-nese seldom uses spacing.
Consequently, eachword in Korean is virtually equivalent to a phras-al unit in Japanese, as given in (1-2).
(1) ???
?/VV+?/EP+?/EFwus-ess-talaugh-PAST-DC ?laughed?
(2) ??
??/VIN?
?/AUwarat-talaugh-PAST ?langhed?The first line (i.e.
ejeol) in (1) for Korean corres-ponds to the first and second line (i.e.
bunsetsu)in (2).
Hence, it is the most suitable choice toalign Korean morphemes (e.g.
?
wus) and Japa-nese bunsetsu (e.g.
??
warat).On the other hand, there is a clear cut betweenlemmatized lexical forms and surface forms inJapanese, (e.g.
??
and ??
in the above, re-spectively), whereas there is none in Korean.
Inorder to prevent the result from being biased, thispaper establishes two training sets (i.e.
lemma-tized and surface forms) for alignment.Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD): Otherthan the above issues, it is also needed to consid-er WSD.
For example, a Korean word ?
salmhas two meanings; one is ?life?
as a nominal ex-pression, the other is ?boil?
as a verbal lexeme,which correspond to ?
sei, ??
niru, respec-tively.
This research, therefore, makes trainingdata composed of each morpheme plus its POStag, such as ??/NNG?
and ?
?/NCPV?.4 Auto-interpolationTurning to the second question, this part covershow to align and annotate.
Were it not for auto-matic processing, it would be painstaking workto construct bilingual resources even line by line.One popular toolkit to align linguistic units be-147tween two languages in an unsupervised way isGIZA++.Even though GIZA++ yields fairly good?word?
alignment, much remains still to be done.For instance, those who want to study two ormore languages from a comparative stance arecertain to need syntactic data which offer moreinformation about language diversity than plainword-mapping.
Besides, Statistical MachineTranslation (SMT) commonly runs under thephrase-based model.
This research employs theMoses toolkit to establish phrase tables.
Thebaseline of this research is the factorless one witha five-gram language model.In order to measure the accuracy of alignment,this research uses the BLEU scoring (Papineni etal., 2002) which has been widely used for eva-luating SMT, under the hypothesis that theBLEU score denotes how well-established thephrase table is.
For the evaluation purpose, 500sentences were selected from the SKJBC at ran-dom, and tested within each SMT baseline, asgiven in Table 2.KoJa JaKolemmatized 72.72 71.37surface 72.98 72.83surface + tag 70.55 68.26Table 2.
BLEU Score(3) <link xtargets="1.1.p8.s4 ; 1.1.p14.s3"><phr xtargets="w1 w2 w3 w4 ; w1 w2 w3 w4"><wrd xtargets="w3 ; w1"><wrd xtargets="w5 ; w5"></link>(4) <s id=1.1.p8.s4>???
kulaya  ?then?<w id=w1>?
?/VV</w>  kule<w id=w2>?
?/EC</w>  yeya????.
caywulop-ci  ?be free?<w id=w3>??
?/VA</w>  caywulop ?free?<w id=w4>?/EF</w>  ci<w id=w5>./SF</w></s>(5) <s id=1.1.p14.s3><w id=w1>?
?</w> ?
?/NG jiyuu ?freedom?<w id=w2>?</w> ?/AU  da<w id=w3>?
?</w> ?
?/PJC kara<w id=w4>?</w> ?/PEN  ne<w id=w5>?</w> ?/SYF</s>Korean and Japanese are typologically verysimilar.
In particular, they have very similarword order, which makes them easy to align us-ing GIZA++ and Moses.
Therefore, we could ex-pect the baselines to perform well, and Table 2proves it.
Table 2 indicates the baselines usingJapanese surface forms are slightly better thanthose using lemmatized forms.
The next step isto confirm whether or not the baselines with POStags decrease performance.
The last line in Table2 implies it is not the case, there is a slight de-cline.Building on the last baselines, this research in-terpolates word and phrase aligning informationinto the original XML files as presented in (3-5),which means ?Then, you will be free?.
Figure 2represents how the online interface this paperproposes handles (3-5).Figure 2.
Sample of Online Interface5 Online Search InterfaceLast but maybe the most important is a user-friendly interface.
Those who have a solid back-ground in computation could take advantage ofcomputational surroundings (e.g.
Moses).
Mostlinguists, however, are not aware of how to usebilingual data so well.
It might look uneasy oreven vague for them to harness bilingual re-sources for their current research.
That means, nomatter how good the bilingual resource is or nomatter how well-trained the word or phrase tableis, unless there is an available interface, the re-source becomes no more than a very restrictedone for a small number of people.
Bilingual re-sources are not NLP-dominated ones, admittingNLP developers employ them most widely.
Theyare also useful in doing comparative languageresearch, making learning materials, or even hu-man translation.
Since one of the easiest interfacein these days would be web-browsers, this re-search provide a web-interface; NARA (ver.
2).4The interface of NARA system looks like acommon search site (e.g.
Google).
A simplesearch option takes a position on the front side,assuming most of users are unfamiliar with lin-guistic terms.
On the other hand, advancedsearch mode, as given in Figure 3, offers morespecialized search options.
One can search by tag,morpheme, or word with specific sub-options,such as matching type.
One can also select theresult format such as word, sentence, or span.
Inorder to compare the search result in variousways, there are some configuration options, suchas search direction (i.e.
KoJa or JaKo), genre,source language, etc.4 http://corpus.mireene.com/nara.php148Turning to the output screen, as shown in Fig-ure 4, each underlined word has its correspond-ing word or phrase.
When the pointer is over anunderlined word, the system highlights the re-lated words and phrases.
If it is necessary tocheck out more information (e.g.
source), onecan use ?INFO?
buttons.
Finally, the interfaceoffers a function to save the current result to aspreadsheet (MS-Excel).6 ConclusionFocusing on the Sejong Korean Japanese Bilin-gual Corpus (SKJBC), this paper covers threematters about how to use and show bilingual re-sources, and provides a user-friendly online in-terface to search the SKJBC.
The NARA inter-face is applicable to any other bilingual resourcesin further researches, because it has been de-signed data-independently.
We have already usedit for aligned Korean-English text.AcknowledgmentsPart of this work was carried out while the firstauthor was an intern at the NICT Language In-frastructure Group.
The fist author was alsosponsored by the BK21 Project (Global Intern-ship).
We owe special thanks to Prof. Jae-WoongChoe, Prof. Han-Seop Lee, Dr. Dong-Sung Kim,Eric Nichols, Yeolwon Seong, and Inbean Lim.ReferencesAnne Abeill?.
2003.
Treebanks.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Hingham, MA, USA.Franz J. Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A SystematicComparison of Various Statistical Alignment Models,Computational Linguistics, 29(1): 19-51.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, andWei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a Method for Au-tomatic Evaluation of Machine Translation.Annual Meeting of the ACL.Philipp Koehn, Marcello Federico, Wade Shen, Nico-la Bertoldi, Ond?rej Bojar, Chris Callison-Burch,Brooke Cowan, Chris Dyer, Hieu Hoang, RichardZens, Alexandra Constantin, Christine Corbett Mo-ran, and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: Open SourceToolkit for Statistical Machine Translation.Annual Meeting of the ACL.Yuji Matsumoto, Akira Kitauchi, Tatsuo Yamashita,and Yoshitaka Hirano.
1999.
Japanese Morpho-logical Analysis System ChaSen version 2.0Manual.
NAIST-ISTR99009.Figure 3.
Screenshot of Advanced Search ModeFigure 4.
Phrase Alignment for ?a mysterious sea route?149
