Proceedings of CLIAWS3, Third International Cross Lingual Information Access Workshop, pages 1?2,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsCross-Language Information Access: Looking Backward, Looking For-wardDouglas W. OardCollege of Information Studies and Institute for Advanced Computer StudiesUniversity of Maryland, College Park, MD, USAThe problem of providing people with the informa-tion that they seek when that information happensto be in an unfamiliar language is not new.
Rather,what is new is what we can do to help address thatchallenge.
To illustrate this point, I?ll start my talkwith a brief recap of two earlier generations ofautomated support for cross-language informationaccess, the first from roughly 1964 to 1985, andthe second from roughly 1989 to the present.
Withthat as background, I?ll then take stock of wherewe are, and where I see unmet needs that call forcapabilities beyond what can currently be accom-plished.
I?ll conclude with a few observationsabout how we might expect the role of the researchcommunity to evolve as progressively more capa-ble cross-language information access technologiesbecome commercially viable.About the SpeakerDouglas Oard holds joint appointments as an As-sociate Professor in the College of InformationStudies and in the Institute for Advanced Com-puter Studies at the University of Maryland, Col-lege Park.
He earned his Ph.D. in ElectricalEngineering from the University of Maryland.
Dr.Oard?s research interests center around the use ofemerging technologies to support informationseeking by end users.
One of the leading research-ers on cross-language information retrieval, he hashelped lead nine evaluation campaigns focused onthat problem for the Text Retrieval Conference(TREC) and the Cross-Language Evaluation Fo-rum (CLEF).
In addition to his work on rankingalgorithms and interaction design for cross-language information retrieval, his recent researchhas focused on support for search and sense mak-ing in large collections of conversational media.Additional information is available athttp://www.glue.umd.edu/~oard/.12
