Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Ontologies and Lexical Resources (Ontolex 2010), pages 19?27,Beijing, August 2010Multilingual Lexical Network from the Archives of the DigitalSilk RoadMohammad DaoudLIG, GETALPUniversit?
Joseph FourierMohammad.Daoud@imag.frKyo KageuraGraduate School of EducationThe University of Tokyokyo@p.u-tokyo.ac.jpChristian BoitetLIG, GETALPUniversit?
Joseph FourierChristian.Boitet@imag.frAsanobu KitamotoThe National Institute of Informat-ics (Tokyo)Kitamoto@nii.ac.jpMathieu MangeotLIG, GETALPUniversit?
Joseph FourierMathieu.Mangeot@imag.frAbstractWe are describing the constructionprocess of a specialized multilinguallexical resource dedicated for the ar-chive of the Digital Silk Road DSR.
TheDSR project creates digital archives ofcultural heritage along the historical SilkRoad; more than 116 of basic referenceson Silk Road have been digitized andmade available online.
These books arewritten in various languages and attractpeople from different linguistic back-ground, therefore, we are trying to builda multilingual repository for the termi-nology of the DSR to help its users, andincrease the accessibility of these books.The construction of a terminological da-tabase using a classical approach is dif-ficult and expensive.
Instead, we are in-troducing specialized lexical resourcesthat can be constructed by the commu-nity and its resources; we call it Multi-lingual Preterminological GraphsMPGs.
We build such graphs by ana-lyzing the access log files of the websiteof the Digital Silk Road.
We aim atmaking this graph as a seed repositoryso multilingual volunteers can contrib-ute.
We have used the access log filesof the DSR since its beginning in 2003,and obtained an initial graph of around116,000 terms.
As an application, Wehave used this graph to obtain a preter-minological multilingual database thathas a number of applications.1 IntroductionThis paper describes the design and develop-ment of a specialized multilingual lexical re-source for the archive constructed and main-tained by the Digital Silk Road project.
TheDigital Silk Road project (NII 2003) is an initia-tive started by the National Institute of Infor-matics (Tokyo/Japan) in 2002, to archive cul-tural historical resources along the Silk Road,by digitizing them and making them availableand accessible online.One of the most important sub-projects is theDigital Archive of Toyo Bunko Rare Books(NII 2008) where 116 (30,091 pages) of old rarebooks available at Toyo Bunko library havebeen digitized using OCR (Optical CharacterRecognition) technology.
The digitized collec-tion contains books from nine languages includ-ing English.
The website of the project attractsvisitors from the domain of history, archeology,and people who are interested in cultural heri-tage.
It provides services of reading and search-ing the books of Toyo Bunko, along with vari-ety of services.
Table 1 shows the countriesfrom which DSR is being accessed.
The table19shows that around 60% of visitors are comingfrom countries other than Japan.
The diversityof the visitors?
linguistic backgrounds suggeststwo things: 1) Monolingual translation service isnot enough.
2) It shows that we can benefit fromallowing them to contribute to a multilingualrepository.
So we design and build a collabora-tive multilingual terminological database andseed using the DSR project and its resources(Daoud, Kitamoto et al 2008).
However, Dis-covering and translating domain specific termi-nology is a very complicated and expensivetask, because (1) traditionally, it depends onhuman terminologists (Cabre and Sager 1999)which increases the cost, (2) terminology is dy-namic (Kageura 2002), thousands of terms arecoined each year, and (3) it is difficult to in-volve domain experts in the construction proc-ess.
That will not only increase the cost, but itwill reduce the quality, and the coverage (num-ber of languages and size).
Databases like (UN-Geo 2002; IATE 2008; UN 2008) are built byhuge organizations, and it is difficult for asmaller community to produce its own multilin-gual terminological database.Country Visitors language Books in the same languageJapan 117782 JA 2 booksChina 30379 CH 5 booksUSA 15626 EN 44 booksGermany 8595 GE 14 booksSpain 7076 SP -Australia 5239 EN See USAItaly  4136 IT 1 bookFrance  3875 FR 14 booksPoland  2236  PO -Russia  1895  RU 7 booksother  87573 Other There are many books indifferent languageTotal 284412Table 1.
Countries of the DSR visitors (fromjan/2007 to dec/2008)In the next section we will give definitionsfor the basic concepts presented in this article,in particular, the preterminology and its lexicalnetwork (graph).
Then, in the third section wewill show the automatic approach to seed themultilingual preterminological graph based onthe resources of the DSR.
And then, we willdiscuss the human involvement in the develop-ment of such a resource by providing a study ofthe possible contributors through analyzing themultilinguality and loyalty of the DSR visitors.In the fifth section we will show the experimen-tal results.
And finally, we will draw some con-clusions.2 Multilingual PreterminologicalGraphs2.1 PreterminologyTerminological sphere of a domain is the set ofterms related to that domain.
A smaller set ofthat sphere is well documented and available indictionaries and terminological databases suchas (FAO 2008; IEC 2008; IDRC 2009)... How-ever, the majority of terms are not multilingual-ized, nor stored into a database, even though,they may be used and translated by the commu-nity and domain experts.
This situation is shownin Figure 1, where the majority of terms are inarea B. Preterminological sphere (area B) of adomain is a set of terms (preterms) related tothe domain and used by the community but itmight not be documented and included in tradi-tional lexical databases.Multilingual Terminological SpherePreterminologyMTDBBACFigure  1.
Preterminological sphereEvery year thousands of terms are coined andintroduced in correspondence to new concepts,scientific discoveries or social needs.
Most ofthese terms are produced in the top dominantlanguages, i.e.
English.
Interested people fromdifferent linguistic backgrounds would findsuitable translations to new terms and use itamongst them.
For example, the term ?statusupdate?
is used by people who visit social net-working websites like facebook.com.
Transla-tion of this term to Arabic might not be avail-able in area A of Figure 1.
However the Arabiccommunity found a translation that is acceptablewhich is  ?????
??????.
So this term is in the area B.We are trying to use what is in area A, and whatcan be contributed from B to build preterminol-ogy (Daoud, Boitet et al 2009).202.2 Structure of MPGWe are building preterminological resource as alexical network (graph) to handle the diversityof the resources that we use.
A multilingual pre-terminological graph MPG(N,E) is a finite non-empty set N={n1,n2, ?}
of objects calledNodes together with a set E={e1,e2, ?}
of un-ordered pairs of distinct nodes of MPG callededges.
This definition is based on the generaldefinition of a graph at the following references(Even 1979; Loerch 2000).
MPG of domain X,contains possible multilingual terms related tothat domain connected to each other with rela-tions.
A multilingual lexical unit and its transla-tions in different languages are represented asconnected nodes with labels.In an MPG the set of nodes N consists of p,l,s, occ, where p is the string of the preterm, l isthe language, s is the code of the first source ofthe preterm, and occ is the number of occur-rences.
Note that l could be undefined.
For ex-ample: N={[silk road, en, log],[Great Wall of China, en,,wikipedia, 5], [????
?, ar, contributorx,6]}, here we havethree nodes, 2 of them are English and one inArabic, each term came from a different source.Note that English and Arabic terms belong tothe same N thus, the same MPG.An Edge e={n, v} is a pair of nodes adjacent inan MPG.
An edge represents a relation betweentwo preterms represented by their nodes.
Thenature of the relation varies.
However, edges areweighted with several weights (described be-low) to indicate the possible nature of this rela-tion.The following are the weights that label theedges on an MPG: Relation Weights rw: For anedge e={[p1,l1,s1], [p2,l2,s2]}, rw indicatesthat there is a relation between the preterm p1and p2.
The nature of the relation could not beassumed by rw.
Translation Weights tw: For anedge e={[p1,l1,s1], [p2,l2,s2]}, tw suggests thatp1 in language l1 is a translation of p2 in lan-guage l2.
Synonym Weights sw: For an edgee={[p1,l1,s1], [p2,l1,s2]}, sw suggests that p1and p2 are synonyms.3 Automatic Initialization of DSR-MPGBasically we seeded DSR-MPG, through twosteps, the firs one is the automatic seeding,which consists of the following: 1) Initializationby finding interesting terms used to search thewebsite of the DSR.
2) Multilingualization, us-ing online resources.
3) Graph Expansion usingthe structure of the graph it self.
The secondstep is the progressive enhancement, by receiv-ing contributions from users, through set of use-ful applications.
In this section we will discussthe first three steps.
In section 4, we will discussthe human factor in the development of DSR-MPG.3.1 Analyzing Access Log FilesWe analyze two kinds of access requests thatcan provide us with information to enrich theMPG: (1) requests made to the local search en-gine of DSR (2) requests from web-basedsearch engine (like Google, Yahoo!?).
Theserequests provide the search terms that visitorsused to access the website.
Moreover, we canunderstand the way users interpret a conceptinto lexical units.
For example, if we find thatfive different users send two search requests t1and t2, then there is a possibility that t1 and t2have a relation.
The graph constructor analyzesthe requests to make the initial graph by creat-ing edges between terms in the same session.rw(x,y), is set to the number of sessions contain-ing x and y within the log file.For example, rw(x,y) = 10 means that 10people thought about x and y within the samesearch session.
Figure 2 shows an example of aproduced graph.
The method did not discoverthe kind of relation between the terms.
But itdiscovered that there is a relation, for example,three users requested results for ?yang?
fol-lowed by ?yin?
within the same session.
Hence,edge with weight of 2 was constructed based onthis.21Figure  2.
Example of constructing an MPGfrom an access log file3.2 Multilingualization Using Online Re-sourcesMany researchers focused on the usage of dic-tionaries in digital format to translate lexicalresources automatically (Gopestake, Briscoe etal.
1994) (Etzioni, Reiter et al 2007).
We areconcerned with the automatic utilization ofthese resources to acquire multilingual preter-minological resources through the following: 1)Wikipedia 2) online MT systems 3) online dic-tionaries.Wikipedia (Wikipedia-A 2008) is a richsource of preterminology, it has good linguisticand lexical coverage.
As of December, 2009,there are 279 Wikipedias in different languages,and 14,675,872 articles.
There are 29 Wikipe-dias with more that 100000 articles and 91 lan-guages have more than 10,000 articles.
Beside,Wikipedia is built by domain experts.
We ex-ploit the structure of Wikipedia to seed anMPG, by selecting a root set of terms, for eachone of them we fetch its wikipedia article, andthen we use the language roll of the article.
Forexample, we fetch the article (Cuneiform script)En: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuneiform_script, to reach itstranslation in Arabic from this url:http://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/ ???????_????
?We use also online machine translation sys-tems as general purpose MRDs.
One of themain advantages of MT systems is the goodcoverage even for multiword terms.
The agree-ment of some MT systems with other resourceson the translation of one term enhanced the con-fidence of the translation.
Another positivepoint is that the results of MT provide a firstdraft to be post edited later.
We used 3 MT sys-tems:?
Google Translate (Google 2008) (50languages)?
Systran (Systran 2009) (14 languages)?
Babylon (Babylon 2009) (26 languages)Here is an example of translating the term?great wall of China?
into Arabic.Figure  3.
MPG sample nodesIn a similar way, we used several online re-positories; to make good use of what is avail-able and standardized, to initializing the MPGwith various resources, and to construct a meta-system to call online dictionaries automatically.We used IATE (IATE 2008)  as an example of aterminological db, and Google dictionary(Google 2008).
The concept is similar to theconcept of using online translations, where weconstruct an http request, to receive the result ashtml page.3.3 Graph ExpansionAnd then, the Graph is expanded by finding thesynonyms according to formula (1) described at(Daoud, Boitet et al 2009).
After finding syno-nyms we assume that synonyms share the sametranslations.
As Figure 4 shows, X1 and X2 havetranslations overlaps, and relatively high rw, sothat suggest they are synonyms.
Therefore weconstructed heuristic edges between the transla-tions of X1 and X2.Systranwight=1WikipediaGoogleBabylonwight=3great wallof China???
?????????????????
????????
?22Figure  4.
Graph expansion4 Human Involvement in the Develop-ment of DSR-MPGAfter initializing the graph, we target contribu-tions from the visitors to the DSR website.
Inthis section we will start by analyzing the possi-bility of receiving contributions from the visi-tors, and then we will introduce some usefulapplications on the DSR-MPG that can help thevisitors and attract them to get involved.4.1 Analyzing Possible Contributors of theDSRWe are trying to analyze access log files to findout the possible contributors to a pretermi-nological multilingual graph dedicated to anonline community.
This kind of information isnecessary for the following reasons: 1) it pro-vide feasibility analysis predicting the possibil-ity of receiving contribution to a multilingualpreterminological repository.
2) it gives infor-mation that can be used by the collaborativeenvironment to personalize the contributionprocess for those who prove to be able to con-tribute.In the analysis process we are using the fol-lowing information that can be easily extractedthe access records:?
Key terms to access the historical resources ofthe Digital Silk Road, whether it is the localsearch engine, or any external search engine.?
Access frequency: number of access requestsby a visitor over a period of time.?
Language preferences?
Period of visitsKnowing these points helps determining thepossible users who might be willing to contrib-ute.
A contributor should satisfy the followingcharacteristics: 1) Loyalty 2) Multilinguality.
Amultilingual user is a visitor who uses multilin-gual search terms to access the online resources.We rank users based on their linguistic compe-tence, we measure that by tracking users?
searchrequests, and matching them with the multilin-gual preterminological graph, users with highermatches in certain pair of languages are rankedhigher.
A loyal user is a user who visits the website frequently and stays longer than other users.Users based on how many months they accessedthe website more that k times.4.2 DSR-MPG ApplicationsFor a historical archive like the DSR, we findthat reading and searching where the most im-portant for users.
Log files since 2003 showsthat 80% of the project visitors were interestedin reading the historical records.
Moreover,around 140000 search requests have been sentto the internal search engine.
So we imple-mented two applications (1) ?contribute-while-reading?
and (2) ?contribute-while-searching?.4.2.1 Contribute While SearchingPhysical books have been digitized and indexedinto a search engine.
We expect users to sendmonolingual search requests in any languagesupported by our system to get multilingual an-swers.
Having a term base of multilingualequivalences could achieve this (Chen 2002).
Abilingual user who could send a bilingual searchrequest could be a valid candidate to contribute.We plan that users who use our search enginewill use the DSR-pTMDB to translate their re-quests and will contribute to the graph sponta-neously.
As Figure 5 shows, a user would trans-late the search request, during the searchingprocess; the user can ask to add new translationif s/he was not happy with the suggested transla-tion, by clicking on ?Add Suggestions?
to viewa contribution page.Figure  5.
A Japanese user translating his re-quest234.2.2 Contribute While ReadingThe other application is trying to help usersfrom different linguistic backgrounds to trans-late some of the difficult terms into their lan-guages while they are reading, simply by select-ing a term from the screen.
As shown in Figure6, readers will see a page from a book as an im-age, with its OCR text.
Important terms will bepresented with yellow background.
Once a termis clicked, a small child contribution/lookupwindow will be open, similar.
Also user canlookup/translate any term from the screen byselecting it.
This application helps covering allthe important terms of each book.Figure 6.
Translate while reading5 Experimental ResultsIn this section present we will present the ex-periment of seeding DSR-MPG, and the resultsof discovering possible contributors from thevisitors of the DSR.5.1 DSR-MPG InitializationTo build the initial DSR-MPG, we used the ac-cess log files of the DSR website (dsr.nii.ac.jp)from December 2003 to January 2009.
The ini-tial graph after normalization contained 89,076nodes.
Also we extracted 81,204 terms usingYahoo terms.
27,500 of them were not discov-ered from the access files.
So, the total numberof nodes in the initial graph was 116,576 nodes,see Figure 7 for sample nodes.After multilingualization, the graph has 210,781nodes containing terms from the most importantlanguages.
The graph has now 779,765 edgeswith tw > 0.
The important languages are thelanguages of the majority of the visitors, thelanguages of the archived books, and represen-tative languages a long the Silk Road.
DSR-MPG achieved high linguistic coverage as 20languages have more than 1000 nodes on thegraph.
To evaluate the produced graph, we ex-tracted 350 English terms manually from theindex pages of the following books:Ancient Khotan, vol.1:http://dsr.nii.ac.jp/toyobunko/VIII-5-B2-7/V-1/On Ancient Central-Asian Tracks,vol.1:http://dsr.nii.ac.jp/toyobunko/VIII-5-B2-19/V-1Memoir on Maps of Chinese Turkistan andKansu, vol.1:http://dsr.nii.ac.jp/toyobunko/VIII-5-B2-11/V-105 010 015 02 0 02 5 03 0 0DS R- M P G 2 D S R - M P G 1 P a n Ima g e s W i ki t io n a ry B i- d i c t io n a ry DS R1En-Ar (only correct tranlstions) En-Fr (only correct translations)Figure  7.
A comparison between DSR-MPG,and other dictionaries.
The En-Ar bi-dictionaryis Babylon (Babylon 2009), and the En-Fr bi-dictionary was IATE.We assume that the terms available in thesebooks are strongly related to the DSR.
Hence,we tried to translate them into Arabic andFrench.
Figure 7 compares between DSR-MPG,and various general purpose dictionaries.
Out ofthe 350 terms, we found 189 correct directtranslations into Arabic.
However, the numberreached 214 using indirect translations.
On theother hand, the closest to our result was PanI-mages, which uses Wikitionaries and variousdictionaries, with only 83 correct translations.DSR-MPG1 is the translations obtained fromformula 1, DSR-MPG2 represents the transla-tions obtained from indirect translations, whichincreased the amount of correct translation by2425 terms in the case of En-Ar.
The result can beprogressively enhanced by accepting contribu-tions from volunteers through the applicationswe described in the section three and the genericnature of MPG makes it easy to accept contribu-tions from any dictionary or terminological da-tabase.Around 55200 root English terms were usedas a seed set of terms; these terms were selectedfrom the initial DSR-MPG.
Around 35000terms have been translated from Wikipedia intoat least 1 language, mostly in French, German.Wikipedia increased the density of the graph byintroducing around 113,000 edges (with tw).Translations020004000600080001000012000fr de ja it zh es ru arFigure 8.
Number of translated terms in sam-ple languages using WikipediaNaturally MT would achieve better coverage;we checked the results for Arabic, we selected60 terms randomly from the root set, around 25terms were translated correctly.
13 terms neededslight modification to be correct.020004000600080001000012000fr de ja it zh es ru arWikipediaGoogle Translate confirmationsFigure 9.
Terms translated by Google MTand matched the translation of Wikipedia5.2 DSR Possible ContributorsWith K=2, meaning that a multilinguality com-petence is counted only if the two terms sent bya user has to have more than 2 points of transla-tion weight on the MPG.The highest score was 33, achieved by thisIP: p27250-adsao05douji-acca.osaka.ocn.ne.jp.That means that this user sent 33 multilingualsearch requests.
We have another 115 users withscore higher than 5.For example, the following two request, sent byone user:p27250-adsao05douji-acca.osaka.ocn.ne.jp&input=peshawarp27250-adsao05douji-acca.osaka.ocn.ne.jp&input=?????
?On the DSR-MPG the translation weight be-tween peshawer and ??????
= 5, thusthis IP earned a point.
With k=10, means that auser should send 10 requests to earn a loyaltypoint, only 309 users earned 12 point (for 12months), 43 of them has more than 3 points.6 ConclusionsWe presented our work in constructing a newlexical resource that can handle multilingualterms based on the historical archive of theDigital Silk Road.
Multilingual Preterminologi-cal Graphs (MPGs) are constructed based ondomain dedicated resources, and based on vol-unteer contributions.DSR TerminologyDSR-MPG (200,000 nodes)previous DSRdictionary (500entries)Figure  10.
DSR preterminologyIt compiles terms available in the pretermi-nological sphere of a domain.
In this article wedefined the framework of the construction ofpreterminology, and we described the approachfor using access log files to initialize such pre-terminological resource by finding the trends inthe search requests used to access the resourcesof an online community.
Aiming at a standard-ized multilingual repository is very expensive25and difficult.
Instead of that, MPGs tries to useall available contributions.
This way will en-hance the linguistic and informational coverage,and tuning the weights (tw, rw, and sw) willgive indications for the confidence of the trans-lation equivalences, as the tedges accumulatethe agreements of the contributors and MDRs(online resources).We used the resources of the Digital SilkRoad Project to construct a DSR-MPG andsome applications that attract further contribu-tion to the MPG.
DSR-MPG achieved high lin-guistic and informational coverage compared toother general purpose dictionaries, Figure 10.Furthermore, the generic structure of the MPGmakes it possible to accept volunteer contribu-tions, and it facilitates further study of comput-ing more lexical functions and ontological rela-tions between the terms.
We made a study onthe possibility of receiving contributions fromusers, by analyzing the access log file to findmultilinguality and loyalty of the DSR visitors;we found 115 users with the needed linguisticcapacity 43 of them scored high loyalty points.This gives an indication of the future of the con-tributions.
These measures are just estimationsand expected to go high with the help of theMPG-DSR applications.ReferencesBabylon.
(2009).
"Babylon Dictionary."
Retrieved5/5/2009, 2009, fromhttp://www.babylon.com/define/98/English-Arabic-Dictionary.html.Cabre, M. T. and J. C. Sager (1999).
Terminology:Theory, methods, and applications, J. BenjaminsPub.
Co.Chen, A.
(2002).
"Cross-Language Retrieval Ex-periments at CLEF 2002."
in CLEF-2002 workingnotes,.Daoud, M., C. Boitet, et al (2009).
Constructingmultilingual preterminological graphs using vari-ous online-community resources.
the Eighth In-ternational Symposium on Natural LanguageProcessing (SNLP2009), Thailand.Daoud, M., C. Boitet, et al (2009).
Building aCommunity-Dedicated Preterminological Multi-lingual Graphs from Implicit and Explicit User In-teractions.
Second International Workshop onREsource Discovery (RED 2009), co-located withVLDB 2009, Lyon, France.Daoud, M., A. Kitamoto, et al (2008).
A CLIR-Based Collaborative Construction of MultilingualTerminological Dictionary for Cultural Resources.Translating and the Computer 30, London-UK.Etzioni, O., K. Reiter, et al (2007).
Lexical transla-tion with application to image searching on theweb.
MT Summit XI, Copenhagen, Denmark.Even, S. (1979).
Graph Algorithms, Computer Sci-ence Press.FAO.
(2008).
"FAO TERMINOLOGY."
Retrieved1/9/2008, 2008, from http://www.fao.org/faoterm.Google.
(2008).
"Google Dictionary."
Retrieved1/9/2008, 2008, fromhttp://www.google.com/dictionary.Google.
(2008).
"Google Translate."
Retrieved 1June 2008, 2008, from http://translate.google.com.Gopestake, A., T. Briscoe, et al (1994).
"Acquisitionof lexical translation relations from MRDS."
Ma-chine Translation Volume 9, Numbers 3-4 / Sep-tember, 1994: 183-219.IATE.
(2008).
"Inter-Active Terminology forEurope."
Retrieved 10/10/2008, 2008, fromhttp://iate.europa.eu.IDRC.
(2009, 10 January 2009).
"The Water De-mand Management Glossary (Second Edition)."fromhttp://www.idrc.ca/WaterDemand/IDRC_Glossary_Second_Edition/index.html.IEC.
(2008).
"Electropedia."
Retrieved 10/10/2008,2008, fromhttp://dom2.iec.ch/iev/iev.nsf/welcome?openform.Kageura, K. (2002).
The Dynamics of Terminology:A descriptive theory of term formation and termi-nological growth.Loerch, U.
(2000).
An Introduction to Graph Algo-rithms Auckland, New Zealand, University ofAuckland.NII.
(2003).
"Digital Silk Road."
Retrieved1/9/2008, 2008, fromhttp://dsr.nii.ac.jp/index.html.en.NII.
(2008).
"Digital Archive of Toyo Bunko RareBooks."
Retrieved 1 June 2008, 2008, fromhttp://dsr.nii.ac.jp/toyobunko/.Systran.
(2009).
"Systran Web Tranlstor."
Re-trieved 20/12/2009, 2009, fromwww.systransoft.com/.UN-Geo (2002).
Glossary of Terms for the Stan-dardization of Geographical Names, UN, NewYork.26UN.
(2008).
"United Nations Multilingual Terminol-ogy Database."
Retrieved 10/10/2008, 2008,from http://unterm.un.org/.Wikipedia-A.
(2008).
"Wikipedia."
Retrieved 1June 2008, 2008, from http://www.wikipedia.org/.27
