Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Young Investigators Workshop on Computational Approaches to Languages of the Americas,pages 54?61, Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsOpinion Identification in Spanish TextsAiala Ros?
Dina WonseverGrupo de Procesamiento de Lenguaje Natural,Facultad de Ingenier?a, UDELARGrupo de Procesamiento de Lenguaje Natural,Facultad de Ingenier?a, UDELARJ.
Herrera y Reissig 565 J. Herrera y Reissig 565Montevideo, 11300, Uruguay Montevideo, 11300, UruguayModyco, UMR 7114,Universit?
Paris Ouest Nanterre La D?fense,CNRS Francewonsever@fing.edu.uy200, avenue de la R?publique, Batiment A,Bureau 420, 92 001 Nanterre Cedexaialar@fing.edu.uyJean-Luc MinelModyco, UMR 7114,Universit?
Paris Ouest Nanterre La D?fense, CNRS France200, avenue de la R?publique, Batiment A,Bureau 420, 92 001 Nanterre Cedexjean-luc.minel@u-paris10.frAbstractWe present our work on the identification of opin-ions and its components: the source, the topic andthe message.
We describe a rule-based system forwhich we achieved a recall of 74% and a precisionof  94%.
Experimentation  with  machine-learningtechniques for the same task is currently underway.1 IntroductionFor some tasks in language processing such as In-formation  Extraction  or  Q&A Systems,  it  is  im-portant to know the opinions expressed by differ-ent sources and their polarity, positive or negative,with  respect  to  different  topics.
There  are  evencommercial applications that provide this kind ofservice (http://www.jodange.com).We here present a system for identifying opin-ions in Spanish texts.
We define opinion as the re-port of someone's statement about any subject ( Elinvestigador de la Polit?cnica afirma que el prin-cipal  problema de este sistema es conseguir quesea f?cil de usar / The researcher at the Polit?c-nica asserts that the main problem with this systemis making it easy to use), or as any mention of dis-course participants?
beliefs  (El  PRI acepta parti-cipar en el debate / The PRI agrees to participatein the debate).As a first step, we study the impact of elementsthat typically introduce such expressions in writtentext.
These elements are mainly verbs of commu-nication (decir, declarar / say, state) but other verbclasses  (belief,  agreement,  appreciation)  are  alsoconsidered.
In other cases, the opinions will be ex-pressed through nouns  (opini?n/opinion,  declara-ci?n/statement) or  segments  introduced by  seg?n(according to) or similar expressions.
To completethe  opinion,  we  identify  its  characteristic  argu-ments: the source, the topic and the message.In addition to recognizing an opinion, we try todetermine its semantic orientation.
To this end, weconsider certain subjective elements and operators(reverse,  intensifier,  enhancing,  neutralizing,  etc.
)which affect them.
In this article, we present onlyresults  on   the  semantic  orientation  of  opinionverbs,  opinion  nouns  and  topic  introducers(sobre/about, con respecto a/with respect to, etc.
).There  are  many  studies  that  address  these  is-sues: Pang and Lee (2008), for instance, discuss in54detail  various  concepts  in  the  area  of  "OpinionMining" or "Sentiment  Analysis" and present themain  proposals,  resources  and  applications.
Forour work,  which focuses on the identification ofsource, topic and message, we have mainly drawnon the following: the scheme for annotating opin-ions  and  emotions  proposed  by  Wiebe,  Wilson,and  Cardie  (2005);  the  work  on  opinion-holder(source)  propositional  opinion  identificationpresented in (Bethard et  al.,  2004);  a  system forsource  identification  using  statistical  methods(Choi  et  al,  2005);  a  method  for  opinion-holderand topic extraction from Kim and Hovy (2006);the study on the identification of source and targetpresented  in  (Ruppenhofer  et  al.,  2008);  and  awork on topic  annotation  (Stoyanov  and Cardie,2008).For  our  semantic  orientation  study,  we  havetaken  some  concepts  from  Turney  and  Littman(2003) and  analyzed  some work on subjectivityoperators  (Polanyi  and  Zaenen,  2004;  Moilanenand Pulman, 2007; Choi and Cardie, 2008).In what follows, we briefly present the modelthat  has  been  defined  to  represent  opinions  andtwo methods for their automatic recognition.
First,we describe a rule-based system that incorporateslexical resources.
This system, whose evaluation isdetailed below, achieves a recall of 74% and a pre-cision of 97%.
During the evaluation process weproduced an annotated corpus of 13,000 words, bymanually correcting the system output.
The secondsystem, currently under development, involves theapplication of machine-learning techniques to theannotated corpus.2 Opinion componentsAn opinion is composed of a predicative elementand its characteristic arguments.
The set of opinionpredicates includes verbs, nouns and prepositions(or prepositional locutions).
Verbs belong to vari-ous semantic classes: communication (decir / say,declarar  /  state), assessment  (criticar  /  criticize,felicitar  /  compliment), belief  (creer /  believe,opinar / think) and acceptance  (aceptar / accept,rechazar / reject).These classes  are  similar  to  those proposed in(Asher et al, 2008), the main difference being thatthey include  the  class  Sentiment  but  we  do  not.Nouns  are  generally  derived  from the  aforemen-tioned  verbs  (opini?n  /  opinion,  declaraci?n  /statement, apoyo / support).
Some prepositions andprepositional  locutions  are  seg?n,  de  acuerdo a,para / according to.The relevant arguments that we identified for theopinion  predicates  are,  as  already  mentioned,source,  topic  and  message.
To  establish  thisscheme we analysed  syntactico-semantic schemesproposed  in  ADESSE2 for  selected  verb  classes(Garc?a-Miguel et al, 2005) and some of the Span-ish  FrameNet  frames3 (Subirats-R?ggeberg  andPetruck.,  2003),  mainly the  opinion frame whoseframe  elements  include  cognizer  (source),  topicand  opinion  (message)  and  the  communicationframe for which some elements are communicator(source), topic and message.Our definition deviates from much of the literat-ure on this subject because we limit our work toopinions introduced by an opinion predicate, as ex-plained  above,  while  many  of  the  cited  worksidentify all kinds of subjective expressions, mainlyadjectives  with  positive  or  negative  polarity,  aswith the  expressive subjective elements describedin (Wiebe et al, 2005).As in our work we focus on finding the source,the message and the topic for each opinion, we ig-nore  all  the  text  fragments  in  which  there  is  noevidence that the author is quoting or referring toother participants?
opinions.
These text fragmentsconstitute the message, as defined above, stated bythe text author.
So, once our system has identifiedother  participants?
opinions,  the  remaining  textshould be attributed to the text author.Identifying  subjective  elements  is  necessary inorder to determine the semantic orientation of theopinion.
We think the treatment of these elementswithin the author?s message is similar to the treat-ment that must be applied within the message at-tributed to any other source.
Such a treatment  isnot addressed in this work, since the semantic ori-entation study presented here is restricted to opin-ion predicates and topic introducers.In some respects our work is related to that of(Bethard et al, 2004).
For opinions introduced byopinion  verbs,  they  identify  the  source  (opinionholder)  and  the  message  (propositional  opinion),restricting  the  study  to  messages  that  constitutesubordinate  clauses.
However,  we  seek  also  toidentify the explicit references to the topic and weconsider not only verbs but also some nouns andprepositions such as  seg?n / according to.
A fur-55ther difference is that they distinguish propositionscontaining an opinion from those transmitting factsor predictions, whereas we do not make this dis-tinction.In our recognition of  the topic we consider onlyexplicit references to the opinion subject.
We lookfor  topic-introducing  elements,  such  as  sobre  /about, con respecto a / regarding, en contra de /against, without  trying  to  deduce the  topic  fromthe study of the message itself.For this general scheme, there are different in-stances in which the arguments can take differentforms.
Thus,  for  some opinion verbs such as  re-chazar /  reject, the message is usually empty.
Forother verbs the topic will be a noun phrase, such asaceptar  la  propuesta  / to  accept  the  proposal,while for others it will be a prepositional phrase,for example, hablar de literatura / to speak aboutliterature.2.1 Some opinion examplesIn  a  standard  reported  speech  utterance  (1),  theopinion  predicate  is  a  communication  verb.
Thesource is the subject of the verb and the message iscontained  in  the  subordinate  clause.
Normally,there is not a segment expressing the topic.
(1) [El investigador de la Polit?cnica]f [afirma]p[que el principal problema de este sistema es con-seguir que sea f?cil de usar]m.(1) [The researcher at the Polit?cnica]f [said] p[that the main problem with this system is makingit easy to use] m.In (2),  there is  a verb that  introduces referredspeech in which a verbal act is mentioned, but thewords uttered (message) are not reproduced (Mal-donado, 1999).
(2) [El abogado de Fernando Botero]s [habl?
]p[sobre el tema]t con Semana.
(2) [The lawyer of Fernando Botero]s [spoke]p[about the subject]t with Semana.However, we also found cases in which repor-ted speech includes an explicit mention of the topic(3) and cases in which referred speech includes theuttered words (4).
In both examples all the definedarguments are present in the text.
(3) [Sobre la partitura]t [Ros Marb?
]s[afirma]p [que es "enormemente teatral.
Se definea los personajes desde la propia m?sica, ...."]m.(3) [Concerning the score]t [Ros Marb?
]s [said]p[it is "very theatrical.
The characters are definedfrom the music itself,  ....]m.(4) En una carta escrita por Dal?
en Neuilly enabril de 1951, [el artista]s [habla]p [sobre su divinainspiraci?n]t: ["Yo quer?a que ..."]m.(4) In a letter written by Dal?
at Neuilly in April1951, [the artist]s [talks]p [about his divineinspiration]t : ["I wanted to ..."]m.As noted earlier, the opinion predicate can be anoun or a preposition such as seg?n / according to.In (5),  the source is the noun complement,  intro-duced by  de /  of.
In  (6),  the  source is  the  nounphrase within the prepositional phrase headed byseg?n / according to.
(5) No tenemos por qu?
criticar las[declaraciones]p de [Elizardo S?nchez]s.(5) We need not criticize [ElizardoSanchez?
]f [statements] p .
(6)  [Este  sistema  se  utiliza  en  Estados  Unidosdesde 1982]m, [seg?n]p [Roque Pifarr?]f.
(6) [This system has been used in theUnited  States  since  1982]m,  [according  to]p[Roque Pifarr?
]s.Note that in (5) there is another opinion predic-ate,  the verb  criticize, occurring in a non-factivecontext.
The factivity of events is not addressed inthis work, but it can be expected to affect opinionrecognition.3    The rule-based systemWe developed a rule-based system for the identi-fication of the opinion elements.
The system takesas input a pre-processed text using the POS-taggerFreeling (Atserias et al, 2006) and Clatex (Won-sever et al 2006), a system that segments texts intopropositions.
Several  rule  modules  are  then  ap-plied,  introducing  XML annotations  showing theidentified opinions and their elements.The  following  example  illustrates  the  systemoutput:56<opinion><menssage>Hasta el momento el virusH1N1 tiene una predominancia mayor que la delos dem?s virus en esos estudios</message>,<predicate>precis?</predicate><source>laministra</source></opinion>.<opinion><message>So far, the H1N1 virus has ahigher prevalence than other viruses in these stud-ies</message>, <predicate>said</predicate><source>Minister</source></opinion>.The  rules  are  based  on  the  contextual  rulesformalism defined by Wonsever and Minel (2004),including  some  further  extensions.
This  type  ofrule allows the specification of contexts, exclusionzones, optionality, negation, and elimination of ex-isting labels,  among others.
In addition, for eachrule it is possible to check various conditions on itscomponents, for example, membership in a list ofwords.
For applying  the rules we used a systemimplemented in Prolog.The hand-written rules were derived from cor-pus analysis.
They are grouped into modules ac-cording to the element they recognize: opinion pre-dicate (verbs, nouns and prepositions), source, top-ic and message.
There is also a final module thatbuilds the entire opinion and some auxiliary mod-ules: the complex noun phrase identifying module(El director del Hospital Maciel, Daniel Parada /The  director  of  the  Hospital  Maciel,  DanielParada) and the subjective elements and operatorsidentifying module.
Table 1 shows the number ofrules contained in each module.
In the next sectionwe describe the source rules module.module # rulesopinion predicate 27source 42topic 22message 8opinion 37auxiliary 7TOTAL 143Table 1: Number of rules in each module3.1 Source rulesIn  order  to  show the  rules  features,  we  will  de-scribe  the  source  module.
Table  2  shows  some(simplified) rules for source identification.fue1a no(prep), <np>, (zone,3), verOpfue1b punt, verOp, (zone,3), <np>fue1c punt, verOp, (zone,3), prep, np, <np>fue2 verOpPart,  "por", <np>fue3a nOp,  "de", <np>fue3b <np>, verSup, op(det), nOpfue3c nOp, verSupPart, "por", <np>fue4a "seg?n", op(verOp), <np>fue4b endS,  "para", <np>fue4c "de acuerdo a", <np>fue4d "de acuerdo con", <np>fue4e "a juicio de", <np>Table  2  Simplified  rules  for  source  recognition.Notation used: np - nominal phrase; < > - elementlabeled by the rule; zone,x - exclusion zone up to xwords; verOpFin - finite opinion verb; verOpPart -opinion verb, participle;  nOp - opinion noun; ver-Sup - support verb; endS - end of sentence; det -determiner; op - optionality operatorThese rules assign the source tag to text segmentsthat match the rule body (indicated by <> in thetable).
The  elements  that  precede  the  body  andthose that follow it are the left and right contexts,respectively.
In addition to assigning the tag, therules assign values to some attributes:- code of the rule that assigned the label- syntactic structure (subject before verb / sub-ject after verb / noun complement introduced byde)- semantic orientation value (-, +, 0)The three rules fue1 identify sources that are thesubject of an opinion verb.
We allow up to 3 wordsbetween the subject and the verb; these words can-not be verb, np, punctuation or conjunction (<Elsenador> este martes dijo ... / <the senator> saidTuesday ...).
For rule fue1c we also allow a prepos-itional phrase (prep + np) between the source andthe  verb  (..., dijo  ayer  a  la  prensa  <elsenador> / ..., said yesterday to the reporters thesenator).
As mentioned, we show simplified rules;the actual rules include other restrictions such aschecking for subject-verb agreement.Rule fue2 is applied when the opinion verb is inparticiple form and the source is an agent comple-ment (las palabras expresadas por el senador / thewords uttered by the senator).57The three rules fue3 concern noun phrases.
Thesource is usually introduced by  de  (las opinionesdel senador / the senator?s opinions) but it is alsocommon to find nouns in a support verb construc-tion (el senador emiti?
una declaraci?n / the sen-ator issued a statement).Finally, the five rules fue4 identify sources in-troduced by seg?n, para, de acuerdo a, de acuerdocon, a juicio de / according to.
When the sourceintroducer is  seg?n,  we can find an opinion verbbetween seg?n and the source (seg?n el senador /seg?n dijo el senador / according to the senator),For the preposition  para / for,  preceding punctu-ation is required because of its high ambiguity.3.2 Lexical ResourcesSome of the rules, especially those for opinion pre-dicate  identification,  rely  heavily  on  lexical  re-sources: lists of opinion verbs and nouns, personindicators  (se?or, doctor, senador / Mr., Dr., sen-ator), institution  indicators  (instituci?n,  hospital,diario  /  institution,  hospital,  journal), supportverbs (plantear, emitir / make, deliver), topic intro-ducers (sobre, con respecto a / about, with respectto), positive subjective elements (bueno, excelente,diversi?n / good, excellent, fun), negative subject-ive elements (malo, negativo, pesimista / bad, neg-ative,  pessimist), and operators  (muy,  extremada-mente, a penas / very, extremely, just).In particular, the list of opinion verbs and nounswas  manually  created  from  corpora  containingSpanish texts: Corin (Grassi et al, 2001), Corpusdel  Espa?ol  (Davies,  2002)  and  a  digital  mediacorpus created for this study.
Only those verbs andnouns that are frequently used in opinion contextswere included in the list, so as to minimize ambi-guity.
At the time of evaluation, the list comprised86 verbs and 42 nouns.3.2.1 The opinion verbs and nouns listFor each verb or noun, we register its lemma andother  information  related  to  its  syntactic  and se-mantic properties.For verbs, we record the following information:?
semantic orientation [-, 0, +]?
semantic role of the subject [source, topic]?
prepositions that introduce the subject.?
subordinate clause admitted (message)For example, for the verb  decir  /  say, the cor-responding values are (0, source, [ ], yes) for theverb apoyar / support: (+, source, [a, np], no), forthe verb molestar / annoy: (-, topic, [ ], no).For nouns, the information of interest is:?
semantic orientation [-, 0, +]?
semantic  role  of  the  complement  intro-duced by de [source, topic, ambiguous]For example, for the noun anuncio / announce-ment, the corresponding values are (0, ambiguous).Note that this noun is ambiguous because the com-plement introduced by de can be either the source(el anuncio del senador / the senator?s announce-ment)  or the topic  (el anuncio de la extensi?n delplazo /  the announcement about the deadline ex-tension).
For the noun  comentario / comment thevalues are (0,source) and for  apoyo / support  thevalues are (+, source).The information associated to  opinion predic-ates is taken into account when applying the rules.For example,  the second attribute of  the opinionnoun is checked when rule fue3a is applied: if theattribute value is "source", the rule matches all npsatisfying the remaining rule conditions, whereas ifthe  attribute  value  is  "ambiguous",  the  rule  re-quires that the np contain a person or institution in-dicator.
The  rule  does  not  apply  if  the  attributevalue is "topic".Some  of  the  message  rules  (not  shown here)check that the final opinion verb attribute has thevalue "yes", indicating that it accepts a subordinateclause (dijo que ... / he said that ...).
These rules la-bel  the proposition following the verb as a mes-sage.
The proposition has already been segmentedby Clatex.The  attribute  that  indicates  which  is  the  verbsubject role is important in differentiating the rulesshown in the table (fue1 to fue4), which only re-cognize verbs for which the subject role is source,from a set  of  additional  rules  (not  shown in thetable) that look for the source in the dative case,when the subject role is topic (la propuesta gust?a los senadores / senators liked the proposal).3.3 Semantic orientationFor each element recognized, the rules assign a se-mantic orientation value.
For the opinion predicate,source and topic this value comes from the lexicalresources.
For the message, this value is calculatedfrom  its  subjective  elements  and  operators.
We58consider that the final opinion semantic orientationcan be calculated from the orientation values of itselements.
We hypothesize  that  when the  opinionpredicate  or  the  topic  introducer  are  not  neutral(they have a positive or negative semantic orienta-tion) the complete opinion takes on the same valueand  there  is  no  need  to  analyze  the  message.
Ifthese two elements are neutral the opinion semant-ic orientation must be obtained from the message.To determine the message semantic orientationwe carried out some experiments that are still on-going.
Semantic orientation values for opinion pre-dicates  are  stated  in  the  verb  and  noun  lists,  asmentioned.
The semantic orientation for topic in-troducers  is  also  stated  in  the  corresponding  list(sobre / about is neutral,  en contra de / against isnegative,  etc.).
The  number  of  elements  of  thistype is very limited.
We did not study the sourcesemantic orientation, in future work we will ana-lyze  expressions  like  Los  optimistas  sostienenque ... / Optimists say that ....4 System evaluationTo evaluate the system we worked with a digit-al  media  corpus;  the  texts  were  taken  from  thesame publications as those used to create the deriv-ation corpus.
The corpus contains 38 texts with anaverage of 300 words each, making a total size ofapproximately 13,000 words.We applied the system to the entire corpus andperformed a manual review of the output in orderto  evaluate  the  identification  of  the  defined  ele-ments and also the complete opinion identification.We also made a partial semantic orientation evalu-ation, taking into account only opinion predicatesand topic introducers' values and their effect on thecomplete opinion value.In addition to assessing the rules performance,during the review stage the annotated corpus wasmanually corrected in order to obtain an opinionannotated  corpus  suitable  for  machine-learning.Table 3 shows the evaluation results.
Rows repres-ent:- total: total number of elements in the text,- corr-c:  number  of  completely  recognizeditems,-  corr-p:  number  of  partially  recognized  ele-ments,- non-rec: number of unrecognized elements,- incorr: number of marked segments which donot correspond to the item,- PR: precision,- REC-c: recall calculated using corr-c,- REC-p: recall calculated using corr-p,- F: F-measure.pred sour top mess opiniontotal 281 212 74 243 302corr-c 256 133 33 140 128corr-p 0 20 13 64 104no rec 25 57 28 39 70incorr 23 11 2 10 14PR 92 % 93 % 96 % 95 % 94 %REC-c 91 % 63 % 45 % 58 % 42 %REC-p 91 % 72 % 62 % 84 % 77 %F 91.5 % 81 % 75 % 89 % 85 %Table 3: System evaluation results.Most opinion predicates present  in the corpusare included in  our opinion verbs  and nouns list(91%).Several sources and topics were partially recog-nized because the  rules  do not  incorporate  somecomplements (prepositional complements or subor-dinate clause) to the noun phrase.Message is partially recognized when a pseudo-direct  discourse  is  used (Parada agreg?
que "laempresa reconoci?
que hubo un c?lculo entre hor-as estimadas y horas reales y eso fue lo que pas?.Nosotros,  primero  empezamos  a  controlar  anuestro personal ...").
This style is usually presentin journalistic texts (Maldonado, 1999).4.1 Semantic orientation evaluationWe recognized 25 non neutral opinion predicatesin the corpus:  12 positive verbs and 14 negativeverbs.
One verb (especular / speculate) was incor-rectly assigned a negative value, its means in thisparticular context is neutral.We just found 3 non-neutral topic introducers,the 3 are negative.The opinion predicates or topic introducers' se-mantic  orientation  values  were  assigned  to  theopinions containing them.
This method for calcu-lating opinion semantic orientation was correct in59all cases (except for the verb especular that was in-correctly analyzed).5 Machine-learning systemThe evaluation system resulted in the generation ofan annotated corpus, processed by the rule-basedsystem and then manually reviewed and corrected.This corpus of about 13,000 words allows us to un-dertake  some  experiments  applying   machine-learning techniques.We are currently experimenting with Condition-al  Random  Fields,  using  the  CRF++  tool(http://crfpp.sourceforge.net/).
We are now determ-ining the attributes to be considered for the trainingphase and defining the most appropriate templatesfor the kind of learning we need.
While carryingout these prior tasks, we will extend the corpus us-ing  the  same  semi-automatic  procedure  as  thatalready implemented.6 Linguistic resourcesMany of the linguistic resources needed to achieveour objectives have already been mentioned.
Someof them were created especially in the context ofthis work and are available as a contribution to thedevelopment of Spanish text processing:?
opinion verbs and nouns lists with syntact-ic and semantic attributes,?
person and institution indicators lists,?
topic introducers list,?
subjective  elements  lists,  created  fromavailable resources for  Spanish (Redondoet al 2007) and English (General Inquirer:www.wjh.harvard.edu),  the  latter  translatedinto Spanish,?
subjective operators list.We also used some resources that are availablefor Spanish, including:?
Freeling (POS-tagger),?
Clatex (propositions analyzer).Freeling also provides a dependency parser thatwas not used here because the tests we carried outscored poorly in sentences containing opinions.Resources such as a semantic role tagger or ananaphora resolution tool could no doubt improveour  system,  but  as  far  as  we  know they are  notavailable for Spanish.As we did for the General Inquirer dictionary,we can apply machine translation to other Englishresources:  subjective  dictionaries  and  annotatedcorpora (Brooke et al, 2009, Banea et al, 2009).Tools for  subjectivity analysis  in English can beapplied to a translated Spanish raw corpus (Baneaet al, 2009).7 ConclusionsWe  have  implemented  a  rule-based  system  foropinion  identification  in  Spanish  texts.
We  havealso created some resources for  Spanish:  opinionverbs and nouns lists, subjective elements lists andan opinion annotated corpus.
We think these  re-sources are an important contribution to the devel-opment of Spanish text processing.In our present work, we are experimenting withmachine-learning techniques for recognizing opin-ion elements.
The results  will  be  compared  withthose obtained by the rule-based system.
We hopeto  improve  our  results  by  combining  rule-basedand machine-learning modules.ReferencesN.
Asher, F. Benamara and Y. Mathieu.
2008.
DistillingOpinion  in  Discourse:  A  Preliminary  Study.
COL-ING ?
Posters.J.
Atserias,  B.  Casas,  E.  Comelles,  M.  Gonz?lez,  L.Padr?
and M. Padr?.
2006.
FreeLing 1.3: Syntacticand  semantic  services  in  an  open-source  NLP lib-rary.
In Proceedings of the fifth international confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC)ELRA.Carmen Banea,  Rada Mihalcea,  Janyce  Wiebe,  SamerHassan.
2008.
Multilingual Subjectivity Analysis Us-ing Machine Translation.
Conference  on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).J.
Brooke, M. Tofiloski and M. Taboada.
2009.
Cross-Linguistic  Sentiment  Analysis:  From  English  toSpanish.
RANLP 2009, Recent Advances in NaturalLanguage Processing.
Borovets, Bulgaria.Steven Bethard, Hong Yu, Ashley Thornton, VasileiosHatzivassiloglou, and Dan Jurafsky.
2004.
Automaticextraction of opinion propositions and their holders.In AAAI Spring Symposium on Exploring Attitudeand Affect in Text: Theories and Applications.Yejin  Choi,  Claire  Cardie,  Ellen Riloff  and SiddharthPatwardhan.
2005.
Identifying  sources  of  opinionswith  conditional  random fields  and extraction  pat-terns.
In  Proceedings of the Conference on HumanLanguage  Technology  and  Empirical  Methods  inNatural  Language  Processing  (Vancouver,  BritishColumbia,  Canada).
Human  Language  Technology60Conference.
Association for Computational Linguist-ics.Yejin  Choi  and  Claire  Cardie.
2008.
Learning  withCompositional Semantics as Structural Inference forSubsentencial Sentiment Analysis.
EMNLP.Mark Davies.
2002.
Corpus del espa?ol (100 millonesde palabras, siglo XIII - siglo XX).
Disponible actual-mente en http://www.corpusdelespanol.org.J.
Garc?a-Miguel,  L.  Costas  and  S.  Mart?nez.
2005.Di?tesis  verbales  y  esquemas  construccionales.Verbos,  clases  sem?nticas  y  esquemas  sint?ctico-sem?nticos en el proyecto ADESSE.
Entre sem?ntical?xica, teor?a del l?xico y sintaxis, 373-384.Mariela Grassi,  Marisa  Malcuori,  Javier  Couto,  JuanJos?
Prada  and  Dina  Wonsever.
2001.
Corpus  in-formatizado: textos del espa?ol del Uruguay (COR-IN), SLPLT-2 - Second International  Workshop onSpanish Language Processing and Language Techno-logies - Ja?n, Espa?a.Soo-Min Kim and Eduard Hovy.
2006.
Extracting opin-ions, opinion holders, and topics expressed in onlinenews media text.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onSentiment  and  Subjectivity  in  Text  (Sydney,  Aus-tralia, July 22 - 22, 2006).
ACL Workshops.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics, Morristown, NJ,1-8.Concepci?n Maldonado.
1999.
Discurso directo y dis-curso indirecto.
In Ignacio Bosque and  Violeta De-monte, Gram?tica descriptiva de la lengua espa?ola(Entre la oraci?n y el discurso.
Morfolog?a), 3549-3596.K.
Moilanen and S. Pulman.
2007.
Sentiment Composi-tion.
In RANLP.Bo  Pang and Lillian  Lee.
2008.
Opinion Mining andSentiment  Analysis.
Foundations  and  Trends  in  In-formation Retrieval 2(1-2), pp.
1?135.L.
Polanyi  and A.  Zaenen.
2004.
Contextual  ValenceShifters.
In AAAI spring Symposium on Attitude.J.
Redondo, I. Fraga, I. Padr?n and M. Comesa?a.
2007.The Spanish Adaptation of ANEW (Affective Normsfor  English  Words).
Behavior  Research  Methods,39(3):600-605, Agosto.Josef Ruppenhofer, Swapna Somasundaran and JanyceWiebe.
2008.
Finding  the  Sources  and  Targets  ofSubjective Expressions.
The Sixth International Con-ference  on  Language  Resources  and  Evaluation(LREC 2008).Veselin Stoyanov and Claire Cardie.
2008.
AnnotatingTopics of Opinions.
Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Eval-uation (LREC 2008), Marrakech, Morocco.Carlos Subirats-R?ggeberg and Miriam R. L.  Petruck.2003.
Surprise: Spanish FrameNet!
In  E. Hajicova,A.
Kotesovcova & Jiri Mirovsky (eds.
), Proceedingsof CIL 17.
CD-ROM.
Prague: Matfyzpress.P.
Turney and M. Littman.
2003.
Measuring Praise andCriticism:  Inference  of  Semantic  Orientation  fromAssociation.
In  ACM  Transactions  on  InformationSystems, 21:315--346.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson and Claire Cardie.
2005.Annotating expressions of opinions and emotions inlanguage.
In  Language  Resources  and  Evaluation(formerly  Computers  and  the  Humanities), 39(2-3):165210.Dina Wonsever and Jean-Luc Minel.
2004.
ContextualRules for Text Analysis.
En Lecture Notes in Com-puter Science.Dina Wonsever, Serrana Caviglia, Javier Couto and Ai-ala Ros?
and.
2006.
Un sistema para la segmenta-ci?n en proposiciones de textos en espa?ol.
In Letrasde hoje 144 (41).61
