Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 64?71,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsCancer Stage Prediction Based on Patient Online DiscourseMukund JhaComputer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027mj2472@columbia.eduNoe?mie ElhadadBiomedical InformaticsColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10032noemie@dbmi.columbia.eduAbstractForums and mailing lists dedicated to par-ticular diseases are increasingly popularonline.
Automatically inferring the healthstatus of a patient can be useful for bothforum users and health researchers whostudy patients?
online behaviors.
In thispaper, we focus on breast cancer forumsand present a method to predict the stageof patients?
cancers from their online dis-course.
We show that what the patientstalk about (content-based features) andwhom they interact with (social network-based features) provide complementarycues to predicting cancer stage and can beleveraged for better prediction.
Our meth-ods are extendable and can be applied toother tasks of acquiring contextual infor-mation about online health forum partici-pants.1 IntroductionIn this paper we investigate an automated methodof inferring the stage of a patient?s breast cancerfrom discourse in an online forum.
Such informa-tion can prove invaluable both for forummembers,by enriching their use of this rapidly developingand increasingly popular medium, and for healthresearchers, by providing them with tools to quan-tify and better understand patient populations andhow they behave online.Patients with chronic diseases like diabetes orlife-threatening conditions like breast cancer geta wealth of information from medical profession-als about their diagnoses, test results, and treat-ment options, but such information is not alwayssatisfactory or sufficient for patients.
Much ofthat is essential to their everyday lives and themanagement of their condition escapes the clin-ical realm.
Furthermore, patients feel informedand empowered by exchanging experiences andemotional support with others in the same circum-stances.
Thus, it is not surprising that patient com-munities have flourished on the Web over the pastdecade, through active disease-specific discussionforums and mailing lists.For health professionals, this new mediumpresents exciting research avenues related to the-ories of psycho-social support and how patientsmanage their conditions.
Qualitative analyses offorums and mailing list posts show that breastcancer patients and survivors provide and seeksupport to and from their peers and that support,while also emotional, is largely informational innature (Civan and Pratt, 2007; Meier et al, 2007).Emotional support may include words of encour-agement and prayers.
Examples of informationalsupport are providing personal experiences with atreatment, discussing new research, explaining apathology report to a peer, as well as exchanginginformation pertinent to patients?
daily lives, suchas whether to shave one?s head once chemotherapystarts.Given the kinds of benefits that patients and sur-vivors seek and provide in online forums, it seemslikely that they would be inclined to gravitate to-ward others whose circumstances most closely re-semble their own, beyond sharing the general di-agnosis of breast cancer.
In fact, focus groupsand surveys conducted with breast cancer patientsidentified and emphasized the need for online can-cer forum participants to identify other patients ofa particular age, stage of illness, or having optedfor similar treatment (Rozmovits and Ziebland,2004; van Uden-Kraan et al, 2008).The stage of a patient?s cancer, in particular, canbe a crucial proxy for finding those whose experi-ences are likely similar and relevant to one?s own.For breast cancer, there are five high-level stan-dard stages (0 to IV).
While they do not give thewhole picture about a particular cancer (the stages64themselves can be described with finer granular-ity and they do no not encompass additional in-formation like hormonal sensitivity), physicianshave traditionally relied on them for prognosis anddetermining treatment options.
For patients andsurvivors, they are a useful way to communicateto their peers their health status, as evidenced bythe members?
signatures on forums and mailinglists (Meier et al, 2007).Although many forums provide pre-set profilefields for users to populate with important back-ground information, such as the stage of their can-cer (e.g., the popular forum on breastcancer.org), in practice, only a fraction of members havea complete profile.
Thus, an automated way of in-ferring member profile information via the socialnetwork created by a forum?s users would help fillin the blanks.Beyond identifying other patients in a forum insimilar circumstances, such a tool can have nu-merous practical benefits for both forum users andhealth researchers who study patients?
online be-havior.
When a patient searches for a particu-lar piece of information in a forum, incorporat-ing contextual information about the user into thesearch mechanism can improve search results.
Forexample, a search tool can rank higher the poststhat were authored by patients with the same stage.For health researchers, questions which bring abetter understanding of forum usage (i.e., ?are pa-tients with stage IV cancer more or less active in aforum than patients with early stage cancer?)
canbe answered accurately only if all members of theforums are taken into account, not just the oneswho filled out their member profiles.
Furthermore,in the context of health communication, the moreinformation is available about an individual, themore effective the message can be, from genericto personalized to targetted to tailored (Kreuter etal., 2000).
Our research contributes an automatedmethod to acquiring contextual information aboutforum participants.
We focus on cancer stage asan exmple of context information.Our research question is whether it is possibleto predict the stage of individuals?
cancer based ontheir online discourse.
By discourse we mean boththe information she conveys and whom she talksto in a forum.
Following ethical guidelines in pro-cessing of patient data online, we focus on a pop-ular breast cancer forum with a large number ofparticipants (Eysenbach and Till, 2001).
We showthat the content of members?
posts and the stageof their interlocutors can provide complementaryclues to identifying cancer stages.2 Related WorkResearchers have begun to explore the possibilityof diagnosing patients based on their speech pro-ductions.
Content analysis methods, which rely onpatient speech transcripts or texts authored by pa-tients, have been leveraged for understanding can-cer coping mechanisms (Graves et al, 2005; Ban-tum and Owen, 2009), psychiatric diagnoses (Ox-man et al, 1988; Elvevaag et al, 2010), and theanalysis of suicide notes (Pestian et al, 2008).In all cases, results, while not fully accurate, arepromising and show that patient-generated con-tent is a valuable clue to diagnosis in an automatedframework.Our work departs from these experiments in thatwe do not attempt to predict the psychologicalstate of a patient, but rather the status of a clinicalcondition.
Staging breast cancer provides a way tosummarize the status of the cancer based on clin-ical characteristics (the size of the tumor, whetherthe cancer is invasive or not, whether cancer cellsare present in the lymph nodes, and whether thecancer has spread beyond the breast).
There arefive high-level stages for breast cancer.
Stage 0describes a non-invasive cancer.
Stage I representsearly stage of an invasive cancer, where the tumorsize is less than 2 centimeters and no lymph nodesare involved (that is, the cancer has not spread out-side of the breast).
Stages II and III describe a can-cer with larger tumor size and/or the cancer hasspread outside of the breast.
Stage IV describesa cancer that have metastasized to distant parts ofthe body, such as lungs and bones.In our work, we analyze naturally occurringcontent, generated by patients talking to each otheronline.
As such, our sample population is muchlarger than in earlier works (typically less than 100subjects).
Like the researchers who focus on con-tent analysis, we rely on the content generated bypatients, but we also hypothesize that whom thepatients interact with can help the prediction ofcancer stage.In particular, we build a social network basedon patients?
interactions to boost text-based pre-dictions.
Graph-based methods are becomingincreasingly popular in the NLP community,and similar approaches have been employed and65shown to perform well in other areas like ques-tion answering (Jurczyk, 2007) (Harabagiu et al,2006), word-sense disambiguation (Niu et al,2005), and textual entailment (Haghighi, 2005).3 MethodsOur methods to predict cancer stage operate in asupervised framework.
We cast the task of stageprediction as a 4-way classification (Stage I to IV).We hypothesize that the discourse of patients on-line, as defined by the content of their posts in aforum, can be leveraged to predict cancer stage.Furthermore, we hypothesize that the social net-work derived by whom patients interact with canprovide an additional clue for stage detection.We experimented with three methods of predict-ing cancer stage:Text-based stage prediction A classifier istrained given the post history of a patient.Network-based stage prediction A social net-work representing the interactions among fo-rummembers is built, and a label propagationalgorithm is applied to infer the stage of indi-vidual patients.Combined prediction A classifier which com-bines text-based and network-based features.Next we describe each method in detail, alongwith our dataset and our experimental setup.3.1 Data Collection and PreprocessingWe collected posts from the publicly available dis-cussion board from breastcancer.org.
It isa popular forum, with more than 60,000 regis-tered members, and more than 50,000 threads dis-cussed in 60 subforums.
To collect our dataset,we crawled the content of the most popular subfo-rums.1Collected posts were translated from HTMLinto an XML format, keeping track of author id,1There were 17 such subforums: ?Just Diagnosed,?
?HelpMe Get Through Treatment,?
?Surgery - Before, During, andAfter,?
?Chemotherapy - Before, During and After,?
?Ra-diation Therapy - Before, During and After,?
?HormonalTherapy - Before, During and After,?
?Alternative, Com-plementary and Holistic Treatment,?
?Stage I and II BreastCancer,?
?Just Diagnosed with a Recurrence or Metastasis,?
?Stage III Breast Cancer,?
?Stage IV Breast Cancer Sur-vivors,?
?HER2/neu Positive Breast Cancer,?
?Deperession,Anxiety and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder,?
?Fitness andGetting Back in Shape,?
?Healthy Recipes for Everyday Liv-ing,?
?Recommend Your Resources,?
?Clinical Trials, Re-search, News, and Study Results.?Nb.
of threads 26,160Nb.
of posts 524,247Nb.
of threads with < 20 posts 22,334Nb.
of users with profile Stage I 2,226Nb.
of users with profile Stage II 2,406Nb.
of users with profile Stage III 1,031Nb.
of users with profile Stage IV 749Total Nb.
of users with profile 6,412Nb.
of active users profiled Stage I 1,317Nb.
of active users profiled Stage II 1,400Nb.
of active users profiled Stage III 580Nb.
of active users profiled Stage IV 448Total Nb.
of active users with profile 3,745Table 1: General statistics of the dataset.thread id, position of the post in the thread, body ofthe post, and signature of the author (which is keptseparated from the body of the post).
The con-tent of the posts was tokenized, lower-cased andstemmed.
Images, URLs, and stop words were re-moved.To post in breastcancer.org, users mustregister.
They have the option to enter a profilewith pre-set fields related to their breast cancer di-agnosis; in particular cancer stage between stageI and IV.
We collected the list of members whoentered their stage information, thereby providingus with an annotated set of patients with their cor-responding cancer stage.
Table 1 shows variousstatistics for our dataset.
Active users are definedas members who have posted more than 50 wordsoverall in the forums.
Note the low number ofuser with profile information (approximately 10%of the overall number of registered participants inthe forum).3.2 Text-Based Stage PredictionWe trained a text-based classifier relying on thefull post history of each patient.
The full posthistory was concatenated.
Signature information,which is derived automatically from the patient?sprofile (and thus contains stage information) wasremoved from the posts.
The classifier relied onunigrams and bigrams only.
Table 2 shows statis-tics about post history length, measured as numberof words authored by a forum member.3.3 Network-Based Stage PredictionWe hypothesize that patients tend to interact in aforum with patients with similar stage.
To test this66Stages Min Max Average MedianI 4 609,608 8,429 3,123II 2 353,731 8,142 3,112III 8 211,655 9,297 3,189IV 10 893,326 17,083 326Table 2: Statistics about number of words in posthistory.
?212215IVIIIIIV3Figure 1: Nodes in the social network of forummember interaction.hypothesis, we represent the interactions of the pa-tients as a social network.
The nodes in the net-work represent patients, and an edge is present be-tween two nodes if the patients interact with eachother, that is they are part of the same threads of-ten.
Weights on edges represent the degree of in-teraction.
Higher weight on an edge between twoforum members indicates they interact more often.More precisely, we build an undirected, weightednetwork, where the nodes representing training in-stances are labeled with their provided stage infor-mation and their labels are fixed.
Figure 1 showsan example of node and its immediate neighborsin the network.
Of his five neighbors, four repre-sent training instances and have a fixed stage, andone represents a user with an unknown stage.A label propagation algorithm is applied to thenetwork, so that every node in the network is as-signed a stage between I and IV (Raghavan et al,2007).
Given a node and its immediate neighbors,it looks for the most frequent labels, taking into ac-count the edge weights.
In our example, the prop-agated label for the central node will be stage IV.This label, in turn, will be used to assign a label tothe other nodes.
When building the social networkof interactions, we experimented with the follow-ing parameters.Nodes in the network.
We experimented withincluding all the forum members who participatedin a conversation thread.
Thus, it includes all themembers, even the ones without a known cancerstage.
This resulted in a network of 15,035 forumparticipants.
This way, the network covers moreinteractions among more users, but is very sparsein its initial labeling (only the training instancesin the dataset of active members with a known la-bel are labeled).
The label propagation algorithmassigns labels to all the nodes, but we test its ac-curacy only on the test instances.
We also ex-perimented with including only the patients in thetraining and testing sets, thereby reducing the sizeof the network but also decreasing the sparsity ofthe labeling.
This resulted in a network of 3,305nodes.2Drawing edges in the network.
An edge be-tween two users indicate they are frequently in-teracting.
One crude way is to draw an edge be-tween every user participating in the same thread,this however does not provide an accurate pictureand hence does not yield good results.
In our ap-proach we draw an edge in two steps.
First, sincethreads are often long and can span over multipletopics, we only draw an edge if the two individ-uals?
posts are within five posts of each other inthe thread.
Second, we then look for any directreferences made by a user to another user in theirpost.
In forum threads, users usually make a di-rect reference by either by explicitly referring toeach other using their real name or internet alasesor by quoting each other, i.e., repeating or statingwhat the other user has mentioned in her post.
Forexample in ?Hey Dana, I went through the samething the first time I went to my doctor...?, the au-thor of the post is referring to another user withname ?Dana?.
We rely on such explicit referencesto build accurate graph.3 To find direct explicit ref-erences, we search in every post of a thread for anymention of names (real or aliases) of users partic-ipating in the thread and if one is found we drawan edge between them.We observed that users refer to each other very2This number of nodes is less than the numbers of over-all active members in our gold standard because some activemembers have either posted in threads with only one post orwith more than 20 posts.3An alternative approach is to identify quotes in posts.
Inour particular dataset, quotes did not occur often, and thuswere ignored when assessing the degree of interaction be-tween two forum members.67frequently using their real names instead of inter-net names (which are long and often arbitrary).These are often hard to detect because no data ispresent which link users?
forum aliases to theirreal name.
We use following approach to extractreal names of the users.Extracting real names.
For every user, we ex-tract the last ten words (signature) from every postposted by the user and concatenate them after re-moving all stop words and other common signa-ture terms (like thanks, all the best, love, good lucketc.)
using a pre-compiled list.
We then mine forthe most frequent name occurring in the concate-nated text using standard list of names and extract-ing capitalized words.
We also experimented withusing Named Entity Recognizers, but our simplerule based name extractor gave us better resultswith higher precision.
Finally, we map the ex-tracted real name with the user?s alias and utilizethem to find direct references between posts.Weights Computation.
The weight of an edgebetween two nodes represents the degree of inter-action between two corresponding users (the moreoften they communicate, the higher the weight).Since the label propagation algorithm takes intoaccount the weighted frequency of neighboringnodes, these weights are crucial.
We computethe weights in following manner: for each pair ofusers with an existing edge (as determined above),we iterate through their posts in common threads,and add the cosine similarity score between thetwo posts to the weight of the edge.
For edgesmade through direct references we add the high-est cosine similarity score between any two pair ofposts in that particular thread.
This way we weighhigher the edges made through direct reference aswe are more confident about them.The full network of all users (15,035 nodes)had 480,051 edges, and the restricted network ofdataset users (3,305 nodes) had 28,152 edges.3.4 Combining Text-Based andNetwork-Based PredictionsTo test the hypothesis that text-based and network-based predictions model different aspects of pa-tients and thus provide complementary cues tostage prediction, we trained a classifier which in-corporates text-based and network-based features.The combined classifier contained the followingfeatures: text-based predicted label, confidencescore of the text-based prediction, network-basedpredicted label, percentage of immediate neigh-bors in the network with a stage I label, stage II,III and IV labels (neighbors in the network withno labels do not contribute to the counts).
For in-stance, the central node in Figure 1 is assigned thefeature values 1/4, 0, 1/4 and 1/2 for the ratio ofstage I, II, III and IV neighbors.3.5 Experimental SetupOur dataset for the three models consisted of the3,745 active members.
For all the models, we fol-low a five-fold stratified cross validation scheme.The text-based classification was carried out withBoosTexter (Schapire and Singer, 2000), trainedwith 800 rounds of boosting.
The label propaga-tion on the social network was carried out in R.4The final decision-tree classification was carriedout in Weka, relying on an SVM classifier withdefault parameters (Hall et al, 2009).4 ResultsTable 3 shows the results of the text-based predic-tion, the network-based prediction and the com-bined prediction for each stage measured by Pre-cision, Recall and F-measure.
For comparison, wereport on the results of a baseline text-based pre-diction.
The baseline prediction assigns a stagebased on the explicit mention of stage in the posthistory of a patient.
In practice, it is a rule-based prediction with matching against the pattern?stage [IV|four|4]?
for stage IV prediction,and similarly for other stages.
The text-based pre-diction yields better results than the baseline, witha marked improvement for each stage.The network-based prediction performs onlyslightly worse than the text-based predictions.
Thehypothesis that whom the patient interacts with inthe forums helps predict stage holds.
To verify thispoint further, we computed for each stage the av-erage ratio of neighbors per stage based on the so-cial network of interactions, as shown in Figure 2.For instance, stage IV patients interact mostly withtheir peers (49% of their posts are shared withother stage IV users), and to some extent withother patients (18% of their posts with stage I pa-tients, 20% with stage II patients, and 13% withstage III patients).
Except for stage III patients, allother patients are mostly interacting with similarlystaged patients.4www.r-project.org68Baseline Text BasedStage Precision Recall F Stage Precision Recall FI 76.2 26.4 39.3 I 54.9 63.9 59.1II 79.4 18.7 30.3 II 51.6 55.0 53.2III 76.6 35.0 48.0 III 52.7 30.3 38.5IV 76.4 50.7 60.9 IV 82.5 71.2 76.4Network Based CombinedStage Precision Recall F Stage Precision Recall FI 50.4 56.7 53.4 I 57.1 65.4 61.0II 49.6 49.1 49.3 II 56.6 53.5 55.0III 65.7 27.7 39.0 III 56.1 48.3 51.9IV 59.3 83.7 69.4 IV 84.7 81.3 83.0Table 3: Stage prediction results (Precision, Recall, and F-measure).When combining the text-based and thenetwork-based predictions in an overall classifierthe prediction yields the best results.
These resultsconfirm the potential in combining the two facetsof patient discourse, content and social interaction.The results presented in the table correspond toa network built with the full set of users, includingthose without any profile information.
When re-stricting the network on the patients with stage la-bels only, we obtained similar results (F-measuresof 56% for stage I, 52% for stage II, 43% for stageIII, and 79% for stage IV).
This shows that it isworth modeling the full set of interactions and thefull network structure, even when a large numberof nodes have missing labels.Finally, we also experimented with buildingnetworks with no weights or with weights with-out the 5-post-apart restriction.
In both cases, theresults of the network-based and combined predic-tions are lower than those presented in Table 3.
Weinterpret this fact as a confirmation that our edgeweighting strategy models to a promising extentthe degree of interaction among patients.5 DiscussionText-based prediction.
Results confirm thatcancer stage can be predicted by a patient?s on-line discourse.
When examining the unigrams andbigrams picked up by the classifier as predictiveof stage, we can get a sense of the frequent top-ics of discussion of patients.
For instance, thephrases ?tumor mm?
(referring to tumor size inmillimeters) and ?breast radiation?
were highlypredictive of stage I patients.
The words ?hat?
and?hair?
were highly predictive of stages II and III,Figure 2: Distribution of stage-wise interactions.while stage IV patients were predicted by the pres-ence of the phrases ?bone met.?
(which stands forbone metastasis), ?met lung?
?liver,?
and ?lym-phedema?
(which is a side effect of cancer treat-ment linked to the removal of lymph nodes andtumor).Figure 3 shows the overall accuracy of the text-based classifier, when tested against the amount oftext available for the classification.
As expected,the longer the post history, the more accurate theclassification.Representing degree of interaction among pa-tients.
In our experiments, we observed that theweigthing scheme of edges had a strong impacton the overall accuracy of stage prediction.
Themore interaction was modeled (through distancein thread and identification of explicit references),the better the results.
This confirms the hypothesisthat dialogue is helpful in predicting cancer stage,and emphasizes the need for accurate techniques69Figure 3: Overall text-based prediction accuracyagainst post history length.to model interaction among forum participants ina social network.Discourse of Stage IV patients.
Both the text-based and the network-based predictions providehigher precision and recall for the stage IV pa-tients.
This is emphasized by Figure 2, wherewe see that, in our dataset, stage IV patients talkmostly to each other.
These results suggest thatstage IV patients have particular discourse, whichseparates them from other patients.
This presentsinteresting avenues for future investigation.6 Future Work and ConclusionIn this paper, we investigated breast cancer stageprediction based on the online discourse of pa-tients participating in a breast cancer-specific fo-rum.
We show that relying on lexical features de-rived from the content of the posts of a patientprovides promising classification results.
Further-more, even a simple social network representingpatient interactions on a forum, yields predictionswith comparable results.
Combining the two ap-proaches boosts results, as content and interactionseem to model complementary aspects of patientdiscourse.Our experiments show that stage IV patients ap-pear to exhibit specific textual and social patternsin forums.
This point can prove useful to health re-searchers who want to quantify patient behaviorsonline.The strategy of combining two facets of dis-course (content and interactions) introduces sev-eral interesting research questions.
In the future,we plan to investigate some of them.
In a first step,we plan to better model the interactions of patientsonline.
For instance, we would like to analyze thecontent of the posts to determine further if two pa-tients are in direct communication, and the domainof their exchange (e.g., clinical vs. day-to-day vs.emotional).
As we have observed that the wayedges in the network are weighted has an impacton overall performance, we could then investigatewhether the domain(s) of interaction among users(clinical matters vs. emotional and instrumentalmatters for instance) has an impact on predictingcancer stage by taking the different domains of in-teraction in account in the weight computation.Finally, this work relies on a single, yet highlyactive and popular, forum.
We would like totest our results on different breast cancer forums,but also on other disease-specific forums, wherepatients can be separated in clinically relevantgroups.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Phani Nivarthi for his help on data col-lection.
This work is supported in part by a GoogleResearch Award.
Any opinions, findings, or con-clusions are those of the authors, and do not neces-sarily reflect the views of the funding organization.ReferencesErin Bantum and Jason Owen.
2009.
Evaluating thevalidity of computerized content analysis programsfor identification of emotional expression in cancernarratives.
Psychological Assessment, 21(1):79?88.Andrea Civan and Wanda Pratt.
2007.
Threading to-gether patient expertise.
In Proceedings of the AMIAAnnual Symposium, pages 140?144.Brita Elvevaag, Peter Foltz, Mark Rosenstein, andLynn DeLisi.
2010.
An automated method to ana-lyze language use in patients with schizophrenia andtheir first degree-relatives.
Journal of Neurolinguis-tics, 23:270?284.Gunther Eysenbach and James Till.
2001.
Ethical is-sues in qualitative research on internet communities.BMJ, 323:1103?1105.Kristi Graves, John Schmidt, Julie Bollmer, MicheleFejfar, Shelby Langer, Lee Blonder, and MichaelAndrykowski.
2005.
Emotional expression andemotional recognition in breast cancer survivors:A controlled comparison.
Psychology and Health,20(5):579?595.70Aria Haghighi.
2005.
Robust textual inference viagraph matching.
In Proceedings of the Conferenceon Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing (EMNLP?05, pages 387?394.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Peter Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.2009.
The WEKA data mining software: An up-date.
SIGKDD Explorations, 11(1).Sanda Harabagiu, Finley Lacatusu, and Andrew Hickl.2006.
Answering complex questions with randomwalk models.
In Proceedings of SIGIR Conference(SIGIR?06), pages 220?227.Pawel Jurczyk.
2007.
Discovering authorities in ques-tion answer communities using link analysis.
InProceedings of the ACM Conference on Informationand Knowledge Management (CIKM?07).Matthew Kreuter, David Farrell, Laura Olevitch, andLaura Brennan.
2000.
Tailoring health messages:customizing communication using computer tech-nology.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Andrea Meier, Elizabeth Lyons, Gilles Frydman,Michael Forlenza, and Barbara Rimer.
2007.
Howcancer survivors provide support on cancer-relatedinternet mailing lists.
Journal of Medical InternetResearch, 9(2):e12.Zheng-Yu Niu, Dong-Hong Ji, and Chew Lim Tan.2005.
Word sense disambiguation using label prop-agation based semi-supervised learning.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL Conference (ACL?05), pages395?402.Thomas Oxman, Stanley Rosenberg, Paula Schnurr,and Gary Tucker.
1988.
Diagnostic classificationthrough content analysis of patient speech.
Ameri-can Joural of Psychatry, 145:464?468.John Pestian, Pawel Matykiewicz, Jacqueline Grupp-Phelan, Sarah Arszman Lavanier, Jennifer Combs,and Robert Kowatch.
2008.
Using natural languageprocessing to classify suicide notes.
In Proceedingsof BioNLP?08, pages 96?97.Usha Raghavan, Reka Albert, and Soundar Kumara.2007.
Near linear time algorithm to detect commu-nity structures in large-scale networks.
Physics Re-view, page E 76 036106.Linda Rozmovits and Sue Ziebland.
2004.
What dopatients with prostate or breast cancer want froman Internet site?
a qualitative study of informationneeds.
Patient Education and Counseling, 53:57?64.Robert Schapire and Yoram Singer.
2000.
BoosTex-ter: A boosting-based system for text categorization.Machine Learning, 39(2/3):135?168.Cornelia van Uden-Kraan, Constance Drossaert, ErikTall, Bret Shaw, Erwin Seydel, and Mart van deLaar.
2008.
Empowering processes and outcomesof participation in online support groups for patientswith breast cancer, arthritis, or fibromyalgia.
Quali-tative Health Research, 18(3):405?417.71
