Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Fifth Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 10?18,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsEnhancing Authentic Web Pages for Language LearnersDetmar Meurers1, Ramon Ziai1,Luiz Amaral2, Adriane Boyd3, Aleksandar Dimitrov1, Vanessa Metcalf3, Niels Ott11 Universita?t Tu?bingen2 University of Massachusetts Amherst3 The Ohio State UniversityAbstractSecond language acquisition research sincethe 90s has emphasized the importance ofsupporting awareness of language categoriesand forms, and input enhancement techniqueshave been proposed to make target languagefeatures more salient for the learner.We present an NLP architecture and web-based implementation providing automatic vi-sual input enhancement for web pages.
Learn-ers freely choose the web pages they want toread and the system displays an enhanced ver-sion of the pages.
The current system supportsvisual input enhancement for several languagepatterns known to be problematic for Englishlanguage learners, as well as fill-in-the-blankand clickable versions of such pages support-ing some learner interaction.1 IntroductionA significant body of research into the effectivenessof meaning-focused communicative approaches toforeign language teaching has shown that inputalone is not sufficient to acquire a foreign lan-guage, especially for older learners (cf., e.g., Light-bown and Spada, 1999).
Recognizing the importantrole of consciousness in second-language learning(Schmidt, 1990), learners have been argued to ben-efit from (Long, 1991) or even require (Lightbown,1998) a so-called focus on form to overcome incom-plete or incorrect knowledge of specific forms orregularities.
Focus on form is understood to be ?anoccasional shift of attention to linguistic code fea-tures?
(Long and Robinson, 1998, p. 23).In an effort to combine communicative and struc-turalist approaches to second language teaching,Rutherford and Sharwood Smith (1985) argued forthe use of consciousness raising strategies drawingthe learner?s attention to specific language proper-ties.
Sharwood Smith (1993, p. 176) coined the terminput enhancement to refer to strategies highlightingthe salience of language categories and forms.Building on this foundational research in secondlanguage acquisition and foreign language teaching,in this paper we present an NLP architecture and asystem for automatic visual input enhancement ofweb pages freely selected by language learners.
Wefocus on learners of English as a Second Language(ESL), and the language patterns enhanced by thesystem include some of the well-established diffi-culties: determiners and prepositions, the distinctionbetween gerunds and to-infinitives, wh-question for-mation, tense in conditionals, and phrasal verbs.In our approach, learners can choose any webpage they like, either by using an ordinary search-engine interface to search for one or by entering theURL of the page they want to enhance.
In contrast totextbooks and other pre-prepared materials, allow-ing the learner to choose up-to-date web pages onany topic they are interested in and enhancing thepage while keeping it intact (with its links, multi-media, and other components working) clearly hasa positive effect on learner motivation.
Input en-hanced web pages also are attractive for people out-side a traditional school setting, such as in the vol-untary, self-motivated pursuit of knowledge oftenreferred to as lifelong learning.
The latter can beparticularly relevant for adult immigrants, who are10already functionally living in the second languageenvironment, but often stagnate in their second lan-guage acquisition and lack access or motivation toengage in language classes or other explicit lan-guage learning activities.
Nevertheless, they do usethe web to obtain information that is language-basedand thus can be enhanced to also support languageacquisition while satisfying information needs.In terms of paper organization, in section 2 wefirst present the system architecture and in 2.1 thelanguage phenomena handled, before consideringthe issues involved in evaluating the approach in 2.2.The context of our work and related approaches arediscussed in section 3, and we conclude and discussseveral avenues for future research in section 4.2 The ApproachThe WERTi system (Working with English RealTexts interactively) we developed follows a client-server paradigm where the server is responsible forfetching the web page and enriching it with annota-tions, and the client then receives the annotated webpage and transforms it into an enhanced version.The client here is a standard web browser, so on thelearner?s side no additional software is needed.The system currently supports three types of inputenhancement: i) color highlighting of the pattern orselected parts thereof, ii) a version of the page sup-porting identification of the pattern through clickingand automatic color feedback, and iii) a version sup-porting practice, such as a fill-in-the-blank versionof the page with automatic color feedback.The overall architecture is shown in Figure 1.Essentially, the automated input enhancement pro-cess consists of the following steps:1.
Fetch the page.2.
Find the natural language text portions in it.3.
Identify the targeted language pattern.4.
Annotate the web page, marking up the lan-guage patterns identified in the previous step.5.
Transform the annotated web page into the out-put by visually enhancing the targeted patternor by generating interaction possibilities.Steps 1?4 take place on the server side, whereas step5 happens in the learner?s browser.1 As NLP is onlyinvolved in step 3, we here focus on that step.1As an alternative to the server-based fetching of web pages,ServerUIMABrowserURL FetchingHTML AnnotationIdentifying text in HTML pageTokenizationSentence Boundary DetectionPOS TaggingPattern-specific NLPColorize Click PracticeFigure 1: Overall WERTi architecture.
Grey componentsare the same for all patterns and activities, cf.
section 2.1.While the first prototype of the WERTi system2presented at CALICO (Amaral, Metcalf and Meur-ers, 2006) and EUROCALL (Metcalf and Meurers,2006) was implemented in Python, the current sys-tem is Java-based, with all NLP being integrated inthe UIMA framework (Ferrucci and Lally, 2004).UIMA is an architecture for the management andanalysis of unstructured information such as text,which is built on the idea of referential annotationand can be seen as an NLP analysis counterpartto current stand-off encoding standards for anno-tated corpora (cf., e.g., Ide et al 2000).
The inputwe are developing a Firefox plugin, leaving only the NLP up tothe server.
This increases compatibility with web pages usingdynamically generated contents and special session handling.2http://purl.org/icall/werti-v111can be monotonically enriched while passing fromone NLP component to the next, using a flexibledata repository common to all components (Go?tzand Suhre, 2004).
Such annotation-based processingis particularly useful in the WERTi context, wherekeeping the original text intact is essential for dis-playing it in enhanced form.A second benefit of using the UIMA framework isthat it supports a flexible combination of individualNLP components into larger processing pipelines.To obtain a flexible approach to input enhancementin WERTi, we need to be able to identify and an-alyze phenomena from different levels of linguisticanalysis.
For example, lexical classes can be iden-tified by a POS tagger, whereas other patterns to beenhanced require at least shallow syntactic chunk-ing.
The more diverse the set of phenomena, theless feasible it is to handle all of them within asingle processing strategy or formalism.
Using theUIMA framework, we can re-use the same basicprocessing (e.g., tokenizing, POS tagging) for allphenomena and still be able to branch into pattern-specific NLP in a demand-driven way.
Given thatNLP components in UIMA include self-describingmeta-information, the processing pipeline to be runcan dynamically be obtained from the module con-figuration instead of being hard-wired into the coresystem.
The resulting extensible, plugin-like archi-tecture seems particularly well-suited for the task ofvisual input enhancement of a wide range of hetero-geneous language properties.Complementing the above arguments for theUIMA-based architecture of the current WERTi sys-tem, a detailed discussion of the advantages of anannotation-based, demand-driven NLP architecturefor Intelligent Computer-Assisted Language Learn-ing can be found in Amaral, Meurers, and Ziai (ToAppear), where it is employed in an Intelligent Lan-guage Tutoring System.2.1 Implemented ModulesThe modules implemented in the current systemhandle a number of phenomena commonly judgedas difficult for second language learners of English.In the following we briefly characterize each mod-ule, describing the nature of the language pattern,the required NLP, and the input enhancement results,which will be referred to as activities.Lexical classesLexical classes are the most basic kind of linguis-tic category we use for input enhancement.
The in-ventory of lexical categories to be used and whichones to focus on should be informed by secondlanguage acquisition research and foreign languageteaching needs.
The current system focuses on func-tional elements such as prepositions and determinersgiven that they are considered to be particularly dif-ficult for learners of English (cf.
De Felice, 2008 andreferences therein).We identify these functional elements using theLingPipe POS tagger (http://alias-i.com/lingpipe) employing the Brown tagset (Francisand Kucera, 1979).
As we show in section 2.2, thetagger reliably identifies prepositions and determin-ers in native English texts such as those expected forinput enhancement.The input enhancement used for lexical classes isthe default set of activities provided by WERTi.
Inthe simplest case, Color, all automatically identifiedinstances in the web page are highlighted by color-ing them; no learner interaction is required.
This isillustrated by Figure 2, which shows the result of en-hancing prepositions in a web page from the BritishFigure 2: Screenshot of color activity for prepositions, cf.http://purl.org/icall/werti-color-ex12newspaper The Guardian.3In this and the following screenshots, links al-ready present in the original web page appear in lightblue (e.g., Vauban in Germany).
This raises an im-portant issue for future research, namely how to de-termine the best visual input enhancement for a par-ticular linguistic pattern given a specific web pagewith its existing visual design features (e.g., bold-facing in the text or particular colors used to indicatelinks), which includes the option of removing or al-tering some of those original visual design features.A more interactive activity type is Click, wherethe learner during reading can attempt to identify in-stances of the targeted language form by clicking onit.
Correctly identified instances are colored greenby the system, incorrect guesses red.Thirdly, input can be turned into Practice activi-ties, where in its simplest form, WERTi turns webpages into fill-in-the-blank activities and providesimmediate color coded feedback for the forms en-tered by the learner.
The system currently acceptsonly the form used in the original text as correct.In principle, alternatives (e.g., other prepositions)can also be grammatical and appropriate.
The ques-tion for which cases equivalence classes of target an-swers can automatically be determined is an interest-ing question for future research.4Gerunds vs. to-infinitivesDeciding when a verb is required to be realized asa to-infinitive and when as a gerund -ing form can bedifficult for ESL learners.
Current school grammarsteach students to look for certain lexical clues thatreliably indicate which form to choose.
Examplesof such clues are prepositions such as after and of,which can only be followed by a gerund.In our NLP approach to this language pattern, weuse Constraint Grammar rules (Karlsson et al, 1995)on top of POS tagging, which allow for straightfor-ward formulation of local disambiguation rules suchas: ?If an -ing form immediately follows the prepo-sition by, select the gerund reading.?
Standard POS3Given the nature of the input enhancement using colors, thehighlighting in the figure is only visible in a color printout.4The issue bears some resemblance to the task of identify-ing paraphrases (Androutsopoulos and Malakasiotis, 2009) orclasses of learner answers which differ in form but are equiva-lent in terms of meaning (Bailey and Meurers, 2008).tagsets for English contain a single tag for all -ingforms.
In order to identify gerunds only, we in-troduce all possible readings for all -ing forms andwrote 101 CG rules to locally disambiguate them.The to-infinitives, on the other hand, are relativelyeasy to identify based on the surface form and re-quire almost no disambiguation.For the implementation of the Constraint Gram-mar rules, we used the freely available CG3 system.5While simple local disambiguation rules are suffi-cient for the pattern discussed here, through iterativeapplication of rules, Constraint Grammar can iden-tify a wide range of phenomena without the need toprovide a full grammatical analysis.The Color activity resulting from input enhance-ment is similar to that for lexical classes describedabove, but the system here enhances both verb formsand clue phrases.
Figure 3 shows the system high-lighting gerunds in orange, infinitives in purple, andclue phrases in blue.Figure 3: Color activity for gerunds vs. to-infinitives, cf.http://purl.org/icall/werti-color-ex2For the Click activity, the web page is shownwith colored gerund and to-infinitival forms and thelearner can click on the corresponding clue phrases.For the Practice activity, the learner is presentedwith a fill-in-the-black version of the web page, asin the screenshot in Figure 4.
For each blank, thelearner needs to enter the gerund or to-infinitivalform of the base form shown in parentheses.Wh-questionsQuestion formation in English, with its particu-lar word order, constitutes a well-known challengefor second language learners and has received sig-nificant attention in the second language acquisi-5http://beta.visl.sdu.dk/cg3.html13Figure 4: Practice activity for gerunds vs. to-infinitives,cf.
http://purl.org/icall/werti-cloze-extion literature (cf., e.g., White et al, 1991; Spadaand Lightbown, 1993).
Example (1) illustrates theuse of do-support and subject-aux inversion in wh-questions as two aspects challenging learners.
(1) What do you think it takes to be successful?In order to identify the wh-question patterns, weemploy a set of 126 hand-written Constraint Gram-mar rules.
The respective wh-word acts as the lex-ical clue to the question as a whole, and the rulesthen identify the subject and verb phrase based onthe POS and lexical information of the local context.Aside from the Color activity highlighting the rel-evant parts of a wh-question, we adapted the otheractivity types to this more complex language pattern.The Click activity prompts learners to click on eitherthe subject or the verb phrase of the question.
ThePractice activity presents the words of a wh-questionin random order and requires the learner to rearrangethem into the correct one.ConditionalsEnglish has five types of conditionals that are usedfor discussing hypothetical situations and possibleoutcomes.
The tenses used in the different condi-tional types vary with respect to the certainty of theoutcome as expressed by the speaker/writer.
For ex-ample, one class of conditionals expresses high cer-tainty and uses present tense in the if -clause and fu-ture in the main clause, as in example (2).
(2) If the rain continues, we will return home.The recognition of conditionals is approached us-ing a combination of shallow and deep methods.
Wefirst look for lexical triggers of a conditional, such asthe word if at the beginning of a sentence.
This firstpass serves as a filter to the next, more expensiveprocessing step, full parsing of the candidate sen-tences using Bikel?s statistical parser (Bikel, 2002).The parse trees are then traversed to identify andmark the verb forms and the trigger word.For the input enhancement, we color all relevantparts of a conditional, namely the trigger and theverb forms.
The Click activity for conditionals re-quires the learner to click on exactly these parts.
ThePractice activity prompts users to classify the condi-tional instances into the different classes.Phrasal verbsAnother challenging pattern for English languagelearners are phrasal verbs consisting of a verb andeither a preposition, an adverb or both.
The meaningof a phrasal verb often differs considerably from thatof the underlying verb, as in (3) compared to (4).
(3) He switched the glasses without her noticing.
(4) He switched off the light before he went to bed.This distinction is difficult for ESL learners, whooften confuse phrasal and non-phrasal uses.Since this is a lexical phenomenon, we ap-proached the identification of phrasal verbs via adatabase lookup in a large online collection of verbsknown to occur in phrasal form.6 In order to find outabout noun phrases and modifying adverbs possiblyoccurring in between the verb and its particles, werun a chunker and use this information in specifyinga filter for such intervening elements.The visual input enhancement activities targetingphrasal verbs are the same as for lexical classes, withthe difference that for the Practice activity, learnershave to fill in only the particle, not the particle andthe main verb, since otherwise the missing contentsmay be too difficult to reconstruct.
Moreover, wewant the activity to focus on distinguishing phrasalfrom non-phrasal uses, not verb meaning in general.2.2 Evaluation issuesThe success of a visual input enhancement approachsuch as the one presented in this paper depends ona number of factors, each of which can in principle6http://www.usingenglish.com/reference/phrasal-verbs14be evaluated.
The fundamental but as far as we areaware unanswered question in second language ac-quisition research is for which language categories,forms, and patterns input enhancement can be effec-tive.
As Lee and Huang (2008) show, the study ofvisual input enhancement sorely needs more experi-mental studies.
With the help of the WERTi system,which systematically produces visual input enhance-ment for a range of language properties, it becomespossible to conduct experiments in a real-life foreignlanguage teaching setting to test learning outcomes7with and without visual input enhancement under awide range of parameters.
Relevant parameters in-clude the linguistic nature of the language propertyto be enhanced as well as the nature of the input en-hancement to be used, be it highlighting through col-ors or fonts, engagement in different types of activi-ties such as clicking, entering fill-in-the-blank infor-mation, reordering language material, etc.A factor closely related to our focus in this pa-per is the impact of the quality of the NLP analysis.8For a quantitative evaluation of the NLP, one signif-icant problem is the mismatch between the phenom-ena focused on in second language learning and theavailable gold standards where these phenomena areactually annotated.
For example, standard corporasuch as the Penn Treebank contain almost no ques-tions and thus do not constitute a useful gold stan-dard for wh-question identification.
Another prob-lem is that some grammatical distinctions taught tolanguage learners are disputed in the linguistic liter-ature.
For example, Huddleston and Pullum (2002,p.
1120) eliminate the distinction between gerundsand present participles, combining them into a classcalled ?gerund-participle?.
And in corpus annota-tion practice, gerunds are not identified as a class bythe tagsets used to annotate large corpora, making itunclear what gold standard our gerund identificationcomponent should be evaluated against.While the lack of available gold standards meansthat a quantitative evaluation of all WERTi mod-ules is beyond the scope of this paper, the deter-miner and preposition classes focused on in the lex-ical classes module can be identified using the stan-7Naturally, online measures of noticing, such as eye trackingor Event-Related Potentials (ERP) would also be relevant.8The processing time for the NLP analysis as other relevantaspect is negligible for most of the activities presented here.dard CLAWS-7 or Brown tagsets, for which gold-standard corpora are available.
We thus decidedto evaluate this WERTi module against the BNCSampler Corpus (Burnard, 1999), which containsa variety of genres, making it particularly appro-priate for evaluating a tool such as WERTi, whichlearners are expected to use with a wide range ofweb pages as input.
The BNC Sampler corpus isannotated with the fine-grained CLAWS-7 tagset9where, e.g., prepositions are distinguished from sub-ordinating conjunctions.
By mapping the relevantPOS tags from the CLAWS-7 tagset to the Browntagset used by the LingPipe tagger as integrated inWERTi, it becomes possible to evaluate WERTi?sperformance for the specific lexical classes focusedon for input enhancement, prepositions and deter-miners.
For prepositions, precision was 95.07% andrecall 90.52% while for determiners, precision was97.06% with a recall of 94.07%.The performance of the POS tagger on this refer-ence corpus thus seems to be sufficient as basis forvisual input enhancement, but the crucial questionnaturally remains whether identification of the targetpatterns is reliable in the web pages that languagelearners happen to choose.
For a more precise quan-titative study, it will thus be important to try the sys-tem out with real-life users in order to identify a setof web pages which can constitute an adequate testset.
Interestingly, which web pages the users choosedepends on the search engine front-end we providefor them.
As discussed under outlook in section 4,we are exploring the option to implicitly guide themtowards web pages containing enough instances ofthe relevant language patterns in text at the appro-priate reading difficulty.3 Context and related workContextualizing our work, one can view the auto-matic visual input enhancement approach presentedhere as an enrichment of Data-Driven Learning(DDL).
Where DDL has been characterized as an?attempt to cut out the middleman [the teacher] asfar as possible and to give the learner direct accessto the data?
(Boulton 2009, p. 82, citing Tim Johns),in visual input enhancement the learner stays in con-9http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/docs/c7spec.html15trol, but the NLP uses ?teacher knowledge?
about rel-evant and difficult language properties to make thosemore prominent and noticeable for the learner.In the context of Intelligent Computer-AssistedLanguage Learning (ICALL), NLP has receivedmost attention in connection with Intelligent Lan-guage Tutoring Systems, where NLP is used to ana-lyze learner data and provide individual feedback onthat basis (cf.
Heift and Schulze, 2007).
Demandson such NLP are high given that it needs to be ableto handle learner language and provide high-qualityfeedback for any sentence entered by the learner.In contrast, visual input enhancement makes useof NLP analysis of authentic, native-speaker text andthus applies the tools to the native language theywere originally designed and optimized for.
SuchNLP use, which we will refer to as Authentic TextICALL (ATICALL), also does not need to be ableto correctly identify and manipulate all instances ofa language pattern for which input enhancement isintended.
Success can be incremental in the sensethat any visual input enhancement can be beneficial,so that one can focus on enhancing those instanceswhich can be reliably identified in a text.
In otherwords, for ATICALL, precision of the NLP tools ismore important than recall.
It is not necessary toidentify and enhance all instances of a given patternas long as the instances we do identify are in factcorrect, i.e., true positives.
As the point of our sys-tem is to enhance the reading experience by raisinglanguage awareness, pattern occurrences we do notidentify are not harmful to the overall goal.10We next turn to a discussion of some interest-ing approaches in two closely related fields, exercisegeneration and reading support tools.3.1 Exercise GenerationExercise generation is widely studied in CALL re-search and some of the work relates directly to theinput enhancement approach presented in this paper.For instance, Antoniadis et al (2004) describe theplans of the MIRTO project to support ?gap-filling?and ?lexical spotting?
exercises in combination witha corpus database.
However, MIRTO seems to fo-10While identifying all instances of a pattern indeed is notcrucial in this context, representativeness remains relevant tosome degree.
Where only a skewed subset of a pattern is high-lighted, learners may not properly conceptualize the pattern.cus on a general architecture supporting instructor-determined activity design.
Visual input enhance-ment or language awareness are not mentioned.
TheVISL project (Bick, 2005) offers games and visualpresentations in order to foster knowledge of syntac-tic forms and rules, and its KillerFiller tool can cre-ate slot-filler exercises from texts.
However, Killer-Filler uses corpora and databases as the text base andit presents sentences in isolation in a testing setup.In contrast to such exercise generation systems, weaim at enhancing the reader?s second language inputusing the described web-based mash-up approach.3.2 Reading Support ToolsAnother branch of related approaches consists oftools supporting the reading of texts in a foreign lan-guage.
For example, the Glosser-RuG project (Ner-bonne et al, 1998) supports reading of French textsfor Dutch learners with an online, context-dependentdictionary, as well as morphological analysis and ex-amples of word use in corpora.
A similar system,focusing on multi-word lexemes, was developed inthe COMPASS project (Breidt and Feldweg, 1997).More recently, the ALPHEIOS project11 has pro-duced a system that can look up words in a lexi-con and provide aligned translations.
While suchlexicon-based tools are certainly useful to learners,they rely on the learner asking for help instead ofenhancing specific structures from the start and thusclearly differ from our approach.Finally, the REAP project12 supports learners insearching for texts that are well-suited for provid-ing vocabulary and reading practice (Heilman et al,2008).
While it differs in focus from the visual inputenhancement paradigm underlying our approach, itshares with it the emphasis on providing the learnerwith authentic text in support of language learning.4 Conclusion and OutlookIn this paper we presented an NLP architecture anda concrete system for the enhancement of authen-tic web pages in order to support language aware-ness in ESL learners.
The NLP architecture is flexi-ble enough to integrate any processing approach thatlends itself to the treatment of the language phe-11http://alpheios.net12http://reap.cs.cmu.edu16nomenon in question, without confining the devel-oper to a particular formalism.
The WERTi systemillustrates this with five language patterns typicallyconsidered difficult for ESL learners: lexical classes,gerunds vs. to-infinitives, wh-questions, condition-als and phrasal verbs.Looking ahead, we already mentioned the funda-mental open question where input enhancement canbe effective in section 2.2.
A system such as WERTi,systematically producing visual input enhancement,can help explore this question under a wide range ofparameters in a real-life language teaching setting.A more specific future research issue is the auto-matic computation of equivalence classes of targetforms sketched in section 2.1.
Not yet mentionedbut readily apparent is the goal to integrate morelanguage patterns known to be difficult for languagelearners into WERTi (e.g., active/passive, tense andaspect distinctions, relative clauses), and to explorethe approach for other languages, such as German.A final important avenue for future research con-cerns the starting point of the system, the step wherelearners search for a web page they are interestedin and select it for presentation with input enhance-ment.
Enhancing of patterns presupposes that thepages contain instances of the pattern.
The lessfrequent the pattern, the less likely we are to findenough instances of it in web pages returned by thestandard web search engines typically used by learn-ers to find pages of interest to them.
The issue is re-lated to research on providing learners with texts atthe right level of reading difficulty (Petersen, 2007;Miltsakaki and Troutt, 2008), but the focus for usis on ensuring that texts which include instances ofthe specific language pattern targeted by a given in-put enhancement are ranked high in the search re-sults.
Ott (2009) presents a search engine prototypewhich, in addition to the content-focused document-term information and traditional readability mea-sures, supports indexing based on a more general no-tion of a text model into which the patterns relevantto input enhancement can be integrated ?
an idea weare exploring further (Ott and Meurers, Submitted).AcknowledgmentsWe benefited from the feedback we received atCALICO 06, EUROCALL 06, and the ICALLcourse13 at ESSLLI 09, where we discussed ourwork on the Python-based WERTi prototype.
Wewould like to thank Chris Hill and Kathy Corlfor their enthusiasm and encouragement.
We aregrateful to Magdalena Leshtanska, Emma Li, IlianaSimova, Maria Tchalakova and Tatiana Vodolazovafor their good ideas and WERTi module contribu-tions in the context of a seminar at the University ofTu?bingen in Summer 2008.
Last but not least, thepaper benefited from two helpful workshop reviews.ReferencesLuiz Amaral, Vanessa Metcalf, and Detmar Meur-ers.
2006.
Language awareness through re-useof NLP technology.
Presentation at the CALICOWorkshop on NLP in CALL ?
Computational andLinguistic Challenges, May 17, 2006.
Universityof Hawaii.
http://purl.org/dm/handouts/calico06-amaral-metcalf-meurers.pdf.Luiz Amaral, Detmar Meurers, and Ramon Ziai.To Appear.
Analyzing learner language: To-wards a flexible NLP architecture for intelligentlanguage tutors.
Computer-Assisted LanguageLearning.
http://purl.org/dm/papers/amaral-meurers-ziai-10.html.Ion Androutsopoulos and Prodromos Malakasiotis.2009.
A survey of paraphrasing and textual entailmentmethods.
Technical report, NLP Group, InformaticsDept., Athens University of Economics and Business,Greece.
http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.3747.Georges Antoniadis, Sandra Echinard, Olivier Kraif,Thomas Lebarbe?, Mathieux Loiseau, and Claude Pon-ton.
2004.
NLP-based scripting for CALL activities.In Proceedings of the COLING Workshop on eLearn-ing for CL and CL for eLearning, Geneva.Stacey Bailey and Detmar Meurers.
2008.
Diagnosingmeaning errors in short answers to reading compre-hension questions.
In (Tetreault et al, 2008), pages107?115.Eckhard Bick.
2005.
Grammar for fun: IT-based gram-mar learning with VISL.
In P. Juel, editor, CALL forthe Nordic Languages, pages 49?64.
Samfundslitter-atur, Copenhagen.Daniel M. Bikel.
2002.
Design of a multi-lingual,parallel-processing statistical parsing engine.
In Pro-ceedings of the Second Int.
Conference on HumanLanguage Technology Research, San Francisco.Alex Boulton.
2009.
Data-driven learning: Reasonablefears and rational reassurance.
Indian Journal of Ap-plied Linguistics, 35(1):81?106.13http://purl.org/dm/09/esslli/17Elisabeth Breidt and Helmut Feldweg.
1997.
Accessingforeign languages with COMPASS.
Machine Transla-tion, 12(1?2):153?174.L.
Burnard, 1999.
Users Reference Guide for the BNCSampler.
Available on the BNC Sampler CD.Rachele De Felice.
2008.
Automatic Error Detection inNon-native English.
Ph.D. thesis, St Catherine?s Col-lege, University of Oxford.Catherine Doughty and J. Williams, editors.
1998.
Fo-cus on form in classroom second language acquisition.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.David Ferrucci and Adam Lally.
2004.
UIMA: an ar-chitectural approach to unstructured information pro-cessing in the corporate research environment.
Natu-ral Language Engineering, 10(3?4):327?348.W.
Nelson Francis and Henry Kucera, 1979.
Brown cor-pus manual.
Dept.
of Linguistics, Brown University.Thilo Go?tz and Oliver Suhre.
2004.
Design and im-plementation of the UIMA Common Analysis System.IBM Systems Journal, 43(3):476?489.Trude Heift and Mathias Schulze.
2007.
Errors and In-telligence in Computer-Assisted Language Learning:Parsers and Pedagogues.
Routledge.Michael Heilman, Le Zhao, Juan Pino, and Maxine Eske-nazi.
2008.
Retrieval of reading materials for vocab-ulary and reading practice.
In (Tetreault et al, 2008),pages 80?88.Rodney Huddleston and Geoffrey K. Pullum.
2002.
TheCambridge Grammar of the English Language.
Cam-bridge University Press.Nancy Ide, Patrice Bonhomme, and Laurent Romary.2000.
XCES: An XML-based encoding standard forlinguistic corpora.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Int.
Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation.Tim Johns.
1994.
From printout to handout: Grammarand vocabulary teaching in the context of data-drivenlearning.
In T. Odlin, editor, Perspectives on Pedagog-ical Grammar, pages 293?313.
CUP, Cambridge.Fred Karlsson, Atro Voutilainen, Juha Heikkila?, andArto Anttila, editors.
1995.
Constraint Grammar:A Language-Independent System for Parsing Unre-stricted Text.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, New York.Sang-Ki Lee and Hung-Tzu Huang.
2008.
Visual in-put enhancement and grammar learning: A meta-analytic review.
Studies in Second Language Acqui-sition, 30:307?331.Patsy M. Lightbown and Nina Spada.
1999.
How lan-guages are learned.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.Patsy M. Lightbown.
1998.
The importance of timingin focus on form.
In (Doughty and Williams, 1998),pages 177?196.Michael H. Long and Peter Robinson.
1998.
Focus onform: Theory, research, and practice.
In (Doughty andWilliams, 1998), pages 15?41.M.
H. Long.
1991.
Focus on form: A design featurein language teaching methodology.
In K. De Bot,C.
Kramsch, and R. Ginsberg, editors, Foreign lan-guage research in cross-cultural perspective, pages39?52.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Vanessa Metcalf and Detmar Meurers.
2006.Generating web-based English prepositionexercises from real-world texts.
Presenta-tion at EUROCALL, Sept. 7, 2006.
Granada,Spain.
http://purl.org/dm/handouts/eurocall06-metcalf-meurers.pdf.Eleni Miltsakaki and Audrey Troutt.
2008.
Real timeweb text classification and analysis of reading diffi-culty.
In (Tetreault et al, 2008), pages 89?97.John Nerbonne, Duco Dokter, and Petra Smit.
1998.Morphological processing and computer-assisted lan-guage learning.
Computer Assisted Language Learn-ing, 11(5):543?559.Niels Ott and Detmar Meurers.
Submitted.
Informationretrieval for education: Making search engines lan-guage aware.
http://purl.org/dm/papers/ott-meurers-10.html.Niels Ott.
2009.
Information retrieval for language learn-ing: An exploration of text difficulty measures.
Mas-ter?s thesis, International Studies in ComputationalLinguistics, University of Tu?bingen.Sarah E. Petersen.
2007.
Natural Language ProcessingTools for Reading Level Assessment and Text Simplifi-cation for Bilingual Education.
Ph.D. thesis, Univer-sity of Washington.William E. Rutherford and Michael Sharwood Smith.1985.
Consciousness-raising and universal grammar.Applied Linguistics, 6(2):274?282.Richard W. Schmidt.
1990.
The role of conscious-ness in second language learning.
Applied Linguistics,11:206?226.Michael Sharwood Smith.
1993.
Input enhancement ininstructed SLA: Theoretical bases.
Studies in SecondLanguage Acquisition, 15:165?179.Nina Spada and Patsy M. Lightbown.
1993.
Instructionand the development of questions in l2 classrooms.Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 15:205?224.Joel Tetreault, Jill Burstein, and Rachele De Felice, ed-itors.
2008.
Proceedings of the Third Workshop onInnovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Ap-plications.
ACL, Columbus, Ohio, June.Lydia White, Nina Spada, Patsy M. Lightbown, and LeilaRanta.
1991.
Input enhancement and L2 question for-mation.
Applied Linguistics, 12(4):416?432.18
