Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies, pages 19?27,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsImplications of Pragmatic and Cognitive Theories on theDesign of Utterance-Based AAC SystemsKathleen F. McCoy Jan Bedrosian Linda HoagDept.
of Computerand Information SciencesDept.
of Speech Pathology andAudiologyDept.
of CommunicationSciences and DisordersUniversity of Delaware Western Michigan University Kansas State UniversityNewark, DE 19716, USA Kalamazoo, MI 49008, USA Manhattan, KS 66506, USAmccoy@cis.udel.edu jan.bedrosian@wmich.edu lhoag@ksu.eduAbstractUtterance-based AAC systems have the poten-tial to significantly speed communication ratefor someone who relies on a speech generat-ing device for communication.
At the sametime, such systems pose interesting challengesincluding anticipating text needs, remember-ing what text is stored, and accessing desiredtext when needed.
Moreover, using such sys-tems has profound pragmatic implications as aprestored message may or may not captureexactly what the user wishes to say in a par-ticular discourse situation.
In this paper wedescribe a prototype of an utterance-basedAAC system whose design choices are drivenby findings from theoretically driven studiesconcerning pragmatic choices with which theuser of such a system is faced.
These findingsare coupled with cognitive theories to makechoices for system design.1 IntroductionThere are more than 3.5 million Americans withdisabilities who cannot effectively use speech tocommunicate (Beukelman & Mirenda, 2005).There are many conditions that can result in suchsevere speech impairments including cerebral pal-sy, autism spectrum disorders, multiple sclerosis,amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), brain-stemstroke, Parkinson?s disease, and traumatic braininjury (TBI).
Any one of these conditions can havea negative effect on the quality of life of thesepeople.
The field of Augmentative and AlternativeCommunication (AAC) has, especially over thelast ten years, dramatically enhanced access tocommunication for these individuals through theuse of high-tech systems.
These electronic systemsallow the entering of text that is then converted tonatural-sounding synthetic speech.
While the popu-lation using AAC systems is quite diverse withregard to their linguistic and cognitive skills, herewe focus on AAC systems for cognitively high-functioning literate adults with motor impairments.Even with a focus on this population, the com-munication rates of people who use AAC systemsdiffer greatly based on their motor abilities andavailable interface choices (Trnka et al, 2009).Nevertheless, overall communication rates areslow to the extent that they are acknowledged asone of the most problematic areas of AAC interac-tions.
Rates of 10-15 words per minute have beenidentified as upper limits for letter-by-letter selec-tion on a keyboard (e.g., Wobbrock & Myers,2006)?a significant contrast to 130-200 words perminute for spoken communication.
These slowrates and long pauses continue to be a major bar-rier to the social, educational, and vocational suc-cess, particularly when communicating withunfamiliar partners who have little or no expe-rience in conversing with someone who uses AAC.One method that holds a great deal of promisefor enhancing communication rate is the use ofsystems that offer a selection of prestored messag-es.
With these systems, a phrase or full sen-tence/utterance can be selected at once.
In suchsystems, sometimes called utterance-based AACsystems, people compose whole utterances in ad-vance and store them for later use.
These systemsappear to be best suited for situations where rela-tively predictable conversational routines takeplace.
Examples include short, transactional ex-changes in stores, restaurants, or other public plac-es where services are provided.Although it might appear that utterance-basedtechnology could solve the problem of slow com-19munication, at least in these predictable exchanges,the individual who uses these prestored messagesmust deal with additional challenges to use theprestored messages that have been stored in theirsystem.
Users must be able to: 1) remember thatthey have messages prestored that are appropriatefor a given situation; 2) remember where thesemessages are stored; and 3) access the desiredprestored messages with few keystrokes.
In addi-tion, it must be recognized that the prestored mes-sages are not always going to exactly fit thecommunicative situation in which the user findshim/herself (e.g., a prestored message may nothave enough information for the needs of the part-ner).This results in a fourth challenge to the user?to decide if it is better to use the message as stored,or either edit or construct a new one.
Each chal-lenge, or trade-off choice, directly affects commu-nication rate.An adequate solution to these challenges hasproven elusive over the years, despite a long tradi-tion of research in utterance-based technologies(e.g., Todman, 2000; Todman & Alm, 1997; Tod-man et al, 2008; Vanderheyden et al, 1996).
Whathas been lacking is a design process that employs atheoretical framework (or perspective) dealingwith conversation conventions, empirical evidenceto identify priorities, and systematic testing to de-termine whether the design enables the communi-cator to achieve the goals of an interaction.A hierarchy of conversational rule violationsbased on a series of experimental studies has agreat deal of potential to positively influence thedesign of future utterance-based technologies.
Inthis paper we first describe a set of such studiesand the resulting hierarchy.
We then discuss theimplications of this hierarchy on the design of anutterance-based AAC system, while integratingconsiderations from cognition and Natural Lan-guage Processing.
Finally, we present our partiallyimplemented prototype system and describe plansfor evaluating this technology.2 Theoretical BackgroundTo shed light on the design of future utterance-based technologies, studied conversational trade-off choices that a person faces when using an ut-terance-based system in goal-directed public situa-tions with service providers who are unfamiliarwith AAC, and how the particular choices madeaffect the attitudes and conversational behaviors ofthese providers (Bedrosian et al, 2003; Hoag et al,2007; Hoag et al, 2004, 2008; McCoy, et al,2007).
We were interested in determining whichmessage choices resulted in the most favorableattitudes and conversational responses leading tothe success of the AAC customer?s goal in thesetransactional exchanges.Notice that no matter how well a user anticipatestext need, it is inevitable that some prestored mes-sages are not going to exactly fit the pragmaticcontext in which the user finds him or herself.
Fourpublic situations (i.e., bookstore, movie theater,small convenience store, hair salon) where suchmismatches could occur were studied in a series ofinvestigations.
Possible pragmatic mismatcheswere characterized in terms of rule violations ac-cording to Grice (1975) who articulated a set ofclassic conversational maxims that implicitly guidepeople in exchanging information.
Using video-taped interactions across experiments, these viola-tions were scripted in messages that involvedtrade-off choices between prestored message useand real time message construction.
Specifically,the trade-offs examined in these investigationswere between speed of message delivery and amessage with either: 1) repetitive information withrepetitive words or phrases; 2) excessive informa-tion, with more information than was needed bythe listener but where the information was still top-ically relevant; 3) inadequate information, lackingsome of the information needed by the listener, or4) partly relevant information, where some of thecontent was not topically relevant.
An example ofsuch a trade-off involved the message choice of aquickly delivered (i.e., 4 seconds) prestored mes-sage with excessive information or one that wasdelivered slowly (i.e., 90 seconds) to allow editingof the excessive information.In essence, these experiments simulated situa-tions where the user was faced with a choice:whether to quickly deliver a prestored message thatwas not exactly what was desired because of thepragmatic mismatch, or whether to take the time toedit the message so that it was exactly what wasneeded.
The experiments looked at goal orientedsituations with unfamiliar partners.
This is an ex-tremely important set of circumstances where theattitudes and actions of the communication partnercan greatly affect whether or not the user can inde-pendently meet his or her goals.20The experimental hypothesis was that there ex-isted a hierarchy of conversational maxims involv-ing the maxims of speed, relevance, repetition, andInformativeness, such that adherence to some ofthese maxims would result in more positive eval-uations by public service providers than others.With regard to the results of the experiments, simi-lar hierarchies of conversational rule violationswere found across experiments, such that someviolations, regardless of degree or particular publicsetting, were indeed consistently responded tomore or less favorably than others.
Consistently atthe bottom of the hierarchy (i.e., responded to leastfavorably in all experimental situations, and withless success in meeting the target customer?s goal)were quickly delivered messages with only partlyrelevant information.
The finding places a highpriority on selecting entirely relevant messages.
Assuch, it suggests the development of a system ar-chitecture that makes it easy and fast to retrieveentirely relevant messages and difficult to retrievemessages that are only partly relevant to the cur-rent exchange.On the other hand, consistently at the top of thehierarchy were quickly delivered messages withrepetitive information.
These messages were re-sponded to the most favorably and with much suc-cess in meeting the target customer?s goal.
Thelimited negative impact of the messages with repe-tition indicated that modification of system designto remedy this message flaw would yield less bene-fit for the user.The other trade-off choices, the fast inadequatemessage, the slow adequate message, and the fastexcessive message, occupied the middle of the hie-rarchy across the experiments, although their posi-tions with regard to each other were not exactly thesame.
Thus, the implications of these findings forsystem design are a little less clear, but suggest thatusers given options to edit or easily construct mes-sages with respect to Informativeness.In sum, these findings have several importantimplications for future utterance-based technolo-gies.
A system design must provide a mechanismsto maximize the availability of situationally rele-vant prestored messages.
Additionally, utterance-based technologies must be integrated seamlesslyinto an AAC system design that allows these pres-tored messages to be easily edited for their exces-sive or inadequate information.
Finally, thisdesign must also support the on-line constructionof new messages, while still easily accessing pres-tored messages when appropriate.3 Prototype DevelopmentThe research findings cited above, particularlythose regarding the critical role of relevance inconversation, led to the underlying structure of theprototype we are in the process of developing.Specifically, we are interested in a prototype thatwill support relevant conversation in familiar rou-tine exchanges with relatively predictable content,such as those that occur in public settings, as it isthese types of exchanges that provide the best situ-ations in which to use prestored text.
Schank andAbelson (1977) suggested that people developmental scripts in such familiar situations (e.g.,going to a restaurant), and that these scripts(representing typical sequences of events) are ac-cessed by people in order to act appropriately inthese situations, and understand/interpret what isbeing said.
Each script consists of a series ofscenes (subevents) that previous experience has ledone to expect to occur.
According to the cognitivetheory, when faced with a new situation (e.g.,going to a new restaurant), a person can pull uphis/her mental script and step through the scenes inorder to participate appropriately.We propose an underlying organizational struc-ture for prestored utterances that leverages thismental script notion from cognitive science, as itnicely supports the Bedrosian, Hoag, McCoy, andBedrosian findings about relevance.
A slightly dif-ferent notion of scripts has been used in previousresearch in utterance-based technologies (e.g., Dyeet al, 1998; Alm et al, 2000).
The notion referredto here is inspired by the early work of Vander-heyden (1995).
In particular, in our prototype sys-tem the prestored utterances are organized(grouped and ordered) according to scenes within ascript.
For example, a ?going-to-a-restaurant?script may have scenes associated with entering,ordering drinks, ordering entree, paying, etc.
Asso-ciated with each of these scenes are the prestoredutterances appropriate for use during that scene(e.g., utterances pertaining to entering might in-clude, ?Hello.?
?Fine, thank you.
?, ?Non-smoking.?
).Not only would this organization ensure the re-levance of utterances to the current situation, but itwould also significantly aid the user in remember-21ing where these messages are stored so that theycan be accessed.
Essentially the user could directthe system to step through messages appropriatefor each scene of a given script as he/she is actual-ly experiencing the scene.
The utterance-based sys-tem would have a ?now point?
which correspondsto the scene in which the user is currently locatedin the script.
Utterances useful for the conversationduring that scene are easily available using veryfew keystrokes.
Moreover, because the script mir-rors the way a user thinks about a typical situationand how it flows from one scene to the next, theinterface could lead the user to utterances appro-priate for the next scenes to be encountered.
Thus,users do not need to remember exactly which ut-terances are stored; they need only to activate theappropriate scene in the script to be shown relevantmessages that can be selected, as well as otherscenes that may follow.At the same time, this underlying structure canalso provide time-saving benefits to the user withrespect to entering text.
This is in part because ofits hierarchical organization [see Figure 1, influ-enced by Vanderheyden (1995)].
At the top of anygiven hierarchy, are the most general scripts whichcan be used in a multitude of new situations (e.g., anew type of restaurant that the user has never goneto).
As shown in the figure, the most general scripthere involves a ?going-to-a-restaurant?
script withscenes containing ?general purpose text?.
For in-stance, in the ordering scene, slot fillers appropri-ate for many different kinds of restaurants areshown.
Below this script, are scripts that pertain tomore specific types of restaurants (only two areexplicitly shown in the figure).
In these scripts,notice some scenes and text are inherited verbatimfrom above, but text may also be added to or mod-ified as appropriate for the situation and accordingto the preferences of the user.
By inherited wemean that one or more scenes, with the corres-ponding messages, from the most general scriptwould automatically be made available in the morespecific instances.
Unavailable in other prestoredtext systems, this feature is a significant benefit tousers, because they only have to enter the informa-tion one time at the highest level of the hierarchy,and yet they will have access to it again in otherscripts further down in the hierarchy.Another advantage of the inheritance is that itresults in a consistent organization of messagesacross scripts.
When accessing any script withinthe restaurant hierarchy, for example, not only canusers expect to find the entering scene that wasinherited from the ?parent?
script, they can alsoexpect to find the prestored utterances ?Hello?
and?Fine, thank you?
near the beginning of that scene.This illustrates a memory enhancement feature ofthis system that is not available in other prestoredtext systems ?
consistency in placement of mes-sages from one particular script to another.
Over-all, this underlying organizational structure, whichwe will refer to as a deep structure, represents asignificant change in the way that utterance-basedsystems in AAC have been designed.
With respectto appearance, or surface structure, some currentsystems may have, for example, a restaurant?page?
consisting of a grid of small rectangularboxes forming rows and columns across the com-puter screen.
Although each box would contain aprestored message appropriate for use in a restau-rant, there is no deep structure specifying how themessages on that page should be organized(grouped and ordered) nor how the messages mightbe related (the notion of consistency) to thosestored on other pages.
The only organizing prin-ciple is that these messages are ?things I can say ina restaurant.?
If the messages are not ordered (ei-ther by row or column) in a way that steps the userthrough a scripted sequence of events for a givensituation, the user must search through a set ofmessages, some of which are unlikely to occur atthat stage in the interaction.
This search process,which is likely to include irrelevant messages, mayslow down the selection process and negativelyimpact the rate of communication.
Even if healthproviders or manufacturers programmed messagesin these boxes to follow such a sequence, thiswould still remain a surface structure ?fix.?
Thestrength of our prototype is the deep structure?themachinery?such that the consistent location of themessages can be easily remembered and accessedin a few keystrokes to enhance communicationrate.
Additionally, the hierarchical advantage of thedeep structure provides the user with a choice ofscripts (depending on the specificity of the situa-tion), and saves the user time and energy in enter-ing text, making the user more independent inmeeting individual communication needs.22Figure 1: Hierarchical Script Representation234 Communicating with the systemIn this section we discuss the user interface andwhat the user does in order to actually communi-cate using the system which has been our focus todate.
Future work will investigate issues in enter-ing prestored text into scripts and adapting thescripts to the individual user.
In a situation wherethe user anticipates using prestored text, he or shewill be taken to a window menu where the desiredscript (and scene) can be selected.
The user maythen navigate to the script that best fits the actionsin which he or she is about to engage.
Upon se-lecting the script, the user will be taken to a screensuch as that displayed in Figure 2.The large window at the top is the display win-dow.
This is where the words of the utterances se-lected by the user to be spoken will be displayed.There is a clear button to clear the display window(on the left of the display) and a speak button (thearrow on the right-hand-side of the display) thatcauses the display window contents to be sent tothe speech synthesizer to be spoken.The next area of the display helps users keeptheir place and navigate within the chosen script.First is the scene map which is a numerical repre-sentation of the scenes in the current script.
Fromthis, for instance, users can see that the script theyhave selected contains seven scenes, and the scenethey are currently performing is scene number onewhich corresponds to the ?enter?
scene.
The num-ber of the current scene is colored differently thanthe rest.
Below the scene map is a line of tabs, un-der which are boxes containing prestored text thatcan be selected by the user.
In this case, the text forthe first five scenes of the script are displayed (orpartially displayed).
These scenes are named ?en-ter?, ?drinks?, ?appetizer?, ?soup/salad?, and?entr?e?.
Under each of these scene-name tabs isthe list of possible prestored utterances associatedwith the scene.
For example, there are three piecesof text displayed that would be appropriate for the?enter?
scene.
As is the case with the scene-map,the current scene (tab and utterances) is coloreddifferently from the others so that it is more salientto the user.Under the boxes are four tabs which bring upoverlays with some general prestored text thatmight be needed at any time during the script.
Ask-ing for some assistance, talking with the waiter,small talk with the table mate, and quickfires arejust some examples of the kinds of pages thatmight be accessible.
Finally, at the bottom of thepage are some navigation buttons for navigating inthe device.
Here we see buttons that allow the userto go to the device home page, move the scriptbackward and forward, and go to a page containinga keyboard so a novel utterance can be composed.The system is set up in a way that allows usersto select text that they might need while perform-Figure 2: View of Interface with "Entering Scene" Active24ing an action as they step through a scene.
Thus, itis assumed that the user would select text in left-to-right order with the left-most scene being the ac-tive scene (i.e., the scene the user is currently per-forming).
The user may select one of the boxes inthe active scene, and the text would be automati-cally put up into the display window at the top.The speak button (arrow in the upper-right corner)is used to actually say the desired text.
The usercould select and speak any number of utterances inthe active scene without any significant changes inthe display.
If the actions the user is performinghave progressed to the next scene, then the usermay navigate to the appropriate text in two dif-ferent ways.
First, the user could click on thescene map or displayed tabs to have the contextshift to the new scene.
Once selected that scenetab and associated text boxes will be shown onthe left-hand-side of the device.
Second, if theutterance that the user wishes to say is currentlyvisible on the screen, the user may simply selectthat utterance.
In this case, in addition to puttingthe utterance in the display window making itready to be spoken, the screen will automaticallyscroll over to display the scene from which theutterance was chosen on the far left (revealingsubsequent scenes to the right of it on thescreen).
Figure 3 displays an example of this kindof movement, resulting from the user selecting the?I?ll have the nachos?
text from the appetizer scenedisplayed in Figure 2.
Notice that the scenes havebeen shifted over--the appetizer scene (scene 3) isnow the active scene, and the text associated withthe button is now in the display window.Figure 3 illustrates another feature of the system?
slot fillers that are specific to a script or scene.Notice that ?nachos?
is colored differently than theother words in this prestored text.
This is an indica-tion that it is a slot-filler and that other options forfilling that slot are available.
To edit that text, theuser clicks on the highlighted word in the displaywindow, and a window such as that in Figure 4 isdisplayed.
The user may then select the fillerhe/she desires, and it will replace ?nachos?
in thedisplay.The system described is currently being imple-mented.
Yet to be integrated is a facility that willenable more extensive editing of the text in thedisplay window and the specifics of easy access totyping via an on-screen keyboard (for instanceswhere the user wishes to type an utterance fromscratch rather than using a prestored utterance).5 Planned EvaluationTwo separate comparative efficacy evaluationswill be conducted to test both the efficiency andeffectiveness (Schlosser, 1999) of the prototypesystem in contrast to a differently organized pres-tored text system.
In each evaluation, efficiencywill involve a comparison of the two systems, in atraining session, with respect to user learning va-riables (e.g., which system is learned faster, withless instruction time, fewer errors/trials).
Effec-tiveness will involve a comparison, in a virtualpublic setting environment with a service provideras the partner, dealing with user behavior changesand satisfaction (e.g., which system results in fasterrates of prestored message selection, goal attain-ment, more satisfaction) and partner attitude andFigure 3: Shifting scenes by selecting text fromappetizer sceneFigure 4: Editing a slot-filler25behavior changes (e.g., which system leads to morepositive attitudes toward the user, more effectiveconversational behaviors in meeting user goals).In the first efficacy evaluation, typically speak-ing, nondisabled adults will be the participants,eliminating bias due to the fact that they will havehad no previous experience using AAC systems.
Arandomized controlled trial will be employed whe-reby participants will be assigned to either the pro-totype system group or the standard system group.Each system will contain the same prestored mes-sages, and the same virtual public setting will beused in each group.
Results will be used to refinethe training phase and modify the prototype soft-ware if necessary.
In the second evaluation, a sin-gle subject experimental design involving anadapted alternating treatment design will be em-ployed with cognitively intact, literate, adult partic-ipants who currently use prestored text systems.Although such a design would expose each partici-pant to each system (i.e., the prototype system andthe standard system), carryover effects are elimi-nated due to counterbalancing the order of the twoconditions across participants, ensuring that thereare two equivalent and functionally independentinstructional sets for the conditions (Schlosser,1999) (in this case, the instructional sets wouldinvolve two virtual public settings and correspond-ing prestored messages), and counterbalancing thesets between conditions.6 Related WorkStoring and retrieving full utterances has been thefocus of a long tradition of work; Todman et al(2008) contains a nice overview of some of thesesystems.
The ScripTalker system (Dye et al1998a) is closest in theory to our system wit per-haps the biggest difference being the variety ofutterances available (and the fact that their proto-type seemed more geared toward people with lowliteracy skills.
While the overall architecture didrely on the notion of scripts, the actual utterancesstored was one per task the user might want to per-form.
I.e., the scripts themselves were linguistic innature.
Similar uses were found in other work fromthat same group, for instance see (Alm et al 1995)and (Dye et al 1998).
In contrast we target userswith higher literacy skills and more variety in theprestored text they might want to have available.The script is used to organize the messages butthere are many messages available within a partic-ular scene.Other work such as the Talk System (Todman &Alm, 1997) is intended for social conversation andthe organization is quite different.
As its intentionis so different, one would expect the stored contentto need to be updated very often in order to keep itcurrent.
This is in contrast to the relatively endur-ing nature expected in the types of conversationswe envision.Another notable system is the FrameTalkerProject (Higgenbotham & Lesher, 2005) uses alooser notion of communication contexts.
Our hy-pothesis is the structure used there does not imposeenough organization over the utterances, especiallyin the type of situations we envision for use.
TheContact system is a system that combines notionsfrom both Talk and the FrameTalker projects.Finally, Langer & Hickey (1997) describe awhole utterance system that retrieved utterancesrelated to keywords via a keyword search on alarge database of utterances.
In contrast, our sys-tem would provide access to presumably a series ofutterances relevant to the current situation.7 ConclusionsAAC systems that use prestored text have a greatdeal of potential to speed communication rate andimprove attitudes of unfamiliar speaking partnerstowards AAC users in public goal-oriented situa-tions.
In this work we applied empirical evidencesummarized in a hierarchy of conversational ruleviolations (Bedrosian et al 2000) to identify im-portant principles of successful interaction withAAC text.
We then attempted to match appropriateNLP technologies with these principles in order todevelop a different viewpoint for an AAC systemthat used prestored text.
Our design is based onschema-theory (Schank & Abelson, 1977) and en-forces a structure over the prestored text that willminimize irrelevant text and constrain the rest ofthe text so as to facilitate remembering what text isstored while minimizing keystrokes needed to se-lect the text.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Tim Walsh who is respon-sible for many of the interface design choices andfor implementing the prototype system.
This workis supported by NIH grant #5 R01 DC003670-06.26ReferencesAlm, N., Morrison, A., & Arnott, J.L.
(1995).
A com-munication system based on scripts, plans, and goalsfor enabling non-speaking people to conduct tele-phone conversations.
In Proceedings of the IEEE In-ternational Conference on Systems, Man andCybernetics.Alm, N., Neumann, H., & van Balkom, H. (2000).Scripts on an AAC system.
In Proceedings of CSUN2000, Northridge, CA.Bedrosian, J. L., Hoag, L. A., & McCoy, K. F. (2003).Relevance and speed of message delivery trade-offsin augmentative and alternative communication.Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research,46, 800-817.Beukelman, D. R., & Mirenda, P. (2005).
Augmentativeand alternative communication: Supporting childrenand adults with complex communication needs (3rded.).
Baltimore, MD: Paul H. Brookes Pub.
Co.Dye, R., Alm, N., Arnott, J. L., Murray, I.R., & Harper,G.
(1998a).
SrtipTalker - An AAC System Incorpo-rating Scripts.In Proceedings of the TIDE Congress(Technology for Inclusive Design and Equality).Dye, R., Alm, N., Arnott, J. L., Harper, G., & Morrison,A.
(1998).
A script-based AAC system for transac-tional interaction.
Natural Language Engineering, 4,57?71.Grice, H. P. (1975).
Logic and conversation.
In P. Cole& J. Morgan (Eds.
), Syntax and semantics: Vol.
3Speech acts (pp.41-58).
New York: Academic Press.Higginbotham, D.J.
& Lesher, G. (2005).
The Frame-talker Project: Building an Utterance-Based Commu-nication Device.
In Proceedings of CSUNTechnology and Persons with Disabilities Confe-rence.Hoag, L., Bedrosian, J., & McCoy, K. (2007, Novem-ber).
Effects of maxim violation degree on a hie-rarchy in AAC.
Poster presented at the AmericanSpeech-Language-Hearing Association Convention,Boston, MA.Hoag, L. A., Bedrosian, J. L., McCoy, K. F., & Johnson,D.
(2004).
Informativeness and speed of message de-livery trade-offs in augmentative and alternativecommunication.
Journal of Speech, Language, andHearing Research, 47, 1270-1285.Hoag, L. A., Bedrosian, J. L., McCoy, K. F., & Johnson,D.
E. (2008).
Hierarchy of conversational rule viola-tions involving utterance-based augmentative and al-ternative communication systems.
Augmentative andAlternative Communication, 24, 149-161.Langer, S. & Hickey, M. (1997).
Automatic MessageIndexing and Full Text Retrieval for a Communica-tion Aid.
In Proceedings of Natural LanguageProcessing For Communication Aids a WorkshopAssociated with ACL 1997, Madrid, Spain.McCoy, K. F., Bedrosian, J. L., Hoag, L. A., & Johnson,D.
(2007).
Brevity and speed of message deliverytrade-offs in augmentative and alternative communi-cation.
Augmentative and Alternative Communica-tion, 23, 76-88.Schank, R. C., & Abelson, R. P. (1977).
Scripts, plans,goals and understanding: An inquiry into humanknowledge structures.
Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.Schlosser, R. W. (1999).
Comparative efficacy of inter-ventions in augmentative and alternative communica-tion.
Augmentative and Alternative Communication,15, 56-68.Todman, J.
(2000).
Rate and quality of conversationsusing a text-storage AAC system: A training study.Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 16,164-179.Todman, J., & Alm, N. (1997).
TALK Boards for socialconversation.
Communication Matters, 11, 13-15.Todman, J., Alm, N., Higginbotham, J., & File, P.(2008).
Whole utterance approaches in AAC.
Aug-mentative and Alternative Communication, 24, 235-254.Trnka, K., McCaw, J., Yarrington, D., McCoy, K.F.
, &Pennington, C. (2009) User interaction with wordprediction: The effects of prediction quality.
ACMTransactions on Accessible Computing (TACCESS),1,17-34.Vanderheyden, P. B.
(1995).
Organization of pre-storedtext in alternative and augmentative communicationsystems: An interactive schema-based approach.Technical Report #AAC9501, Applied Science andEngineering Laboratories, Wilmington, DE.Vanderheyden, P.B.,  Demasco, P.W., McCoy, K.F., &Pennington, C.A.
(1996).
A preliminary study intoSchema-based access and organization of reusabletext in AAC.
In Proceedings of RESNA '96 19th An-nual Conference, June.Wobbrock, J.
& Myers, B.
(2006).
From letters towords: Efficient stroke-based word completion fortrackball text entry.
In Proceedings of the ACMSIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Acces-sibility (ASSETS), pp.
227
