Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 First Workshop on Computational Neurolinguistics, pages 45?51,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsHemispheric processing of Chinese polysemy in the disyllabic verb/ nouncompounds: an event-related potential studyChih-ying HuangInstitute of Linguistics128, Sec.
2, Academia Road, Taipei,Taiwan, R.O.Cevelynhg@alumni.nccu.edu.twChia-ying LeeInstitute of Linguistics128, Sec.
2, Academia Road, Taipei,Taiwan, R.O.Cchiaying@gate.sinica.edu.twAbstractThrough the application of Chinese WordNet,the current study used the manipulation ofvisual field and the number of senses of thefirst character in Chinese disyllabic com-pounds to investigate the representation andthe hemispheric processing of related sensesin nouns and verbs.
In the previous study,Huang et al (2009) have found the ERP evi-dence to indicate single entry representationfor Chinese polysemy in the left hemisphere;however, in the right hemisphere, they foundsense inhibition which may be due to (1) thenature of hemispheric processing in dealingwith semantic ambiguity or (2) the semanticactivation from the separate-entry representa-tion for senses.
To clarify these possibilities,the study used the word class judgment taskwith the attempt to push subjects in a deeperlevel of lexical processing.
The results re-vealed sense facilitation effect in the RH andsuggested that in a deeper level, the RH hadmore possibility to observe the sense facilita-tion due to different efficiency of cerebralhemispheres.1 Introduction1.1 Homonymy vs. polysemyLexical ambiguity is very common in language.Linguistically, homonymy and polysemy are tradi-tionally distinguished as two types of ambiguity.Early behavioral studies on semantic ambiguityobtained ambiguity advantage effects (e.g., Ru-benstein et al, 1970; Jastrzembski, 1981, Millis &Button, 1989) in lexical decisions in which ambi-guous words yielded faster reaction time than un-ambiguous words.
However, the same results werenot replicated in some other studies (e.g., Bo-rowsky & Masson, 1996; Azuma & Van Orden,1997).
More recent psycholinguistic studies foundthat the so-called ambiguity advantage effects werein fact resulted from the activation of words havingrelated senses rather than that of words having un-related meanings (e.g., Rodd et al, 2002; Beretta etal., 2005; Pylkk?nen et al, 2006).
These studieswere generally in agreement with the linguisticassumption in that homonymy and polysemy mightbe represented differently in the mental lexicon.1.2 Hemispheric processing of semantic am-biguityThe issue of hemispheric processing in combina-tion with lexical ambiguity have been widely stu-died (e.g., Burgess & Simpson, 1988; Beeman &Chiarello, 1998; Faust & Lavidor, 2003) and sug-gested that both cerebral hemispheres process wordmeanings in complementary ways.
For example,Faust and Lavidor (2003) demonstrated that theLH benefited most from semantically congruentprimes related to dominant meaning of ambiguoustargets while the RH benefited most from semanti-cally mixed primes.
The overall pattern of primingwas also suggestive of dissociation in the hemis-pheric meaning retrieval, with the LH engaging infine semantic coding that focused on a singlemeaning interpretation, and the RH engaging incoarser semantic coding where multiple alternatemeanings were activated.
Alternatively, Federmei-45er and Kutas (1999) offered electrophysiologicaldata in a sentence comprehension task to presentanother explanation in hemispheric languageprocessing.
They suggested that while both hemis-pheres involved in lexical resolution, they playeddifferent roles with the LH being ?predictive?, theRH being ?integrative?, to complement each other.Pylkk?nen et al, (2006) were the first to focuson the investigation of how different but relatedsenses were psychologically represented in themental lexicon.
Their MEG data suggested the sin-gle-entry representation for related senses in theLH whereas they showed the sense inhibition inthe RH and interpreted it as a potential sense com-petition effect.
In Chinese, Huang et al (2009)demonstrated similar patterns in their ERP data inwhich there was sense facilitation in the LH andsense inhibition in the RH.
Nevertheless, the ques-tion concerning the representation of related sensesin the RH still left unresolved.
Early studies onChinese ambiguity such as Lin (1999) obtainedambiguity advantage but the calculation of ?senses?1included related and unrelated meanings and theeffect was not reliable enough.1.3 Ambiguity in Chinese disyllabic com-poundsIn Chinese words recognition process, the issue oflexical ambiguity involves the composition of con-stituent characters and how they contribute to thewhole word reading.
Chinese words differ fromEnglish in at least two aspects.
First, about 80% ofChinese words are composed of two characters(Huang et al, 2006).
Second, unlike the words inEnglish, which every word is composed of letterscorresponding to phonemes, Chinese words consistof characters corresponding to morphemes.
In oth-er words, each character in Chinese has its mor-pheme(s) when they are embedded in two-character compounds.
Therefore, before we lookinto the lexical ambiguity of two-character words1 The definition of ?sense?
in Lin (1999) is different from the?sense advantage effect?
demonstrated by Rodd et al (2002).Lin argued that ?meaning?
in past research is used as a generalterm to refer to any kind of linguistic meaning.
He claimedthat, based upon Ahrens (1999) and Ahrens et al (1998), it isbetter to use ?sense?
and ?facets?
as a measure index.
Thoughthe ?number of senses?
Lin used is a little different from the?number of meanings?
used by Azuma and Van Orden (1997),it is regarded that Lin still did not solve the unreliable findingsof ambiguity advantage effect.as lexical items, we should investigate the senserepresentation of its subcomponent, the representa-tion of its single character within two-charactercompounds.In the circumstance which every character inthe disyllabic compounds may contribute to wordrecognition, there still exists disparity between theroles of the first and second character.
In light ofthe studies on the neighborhood size effect, wordrecognition process will be influenced by the com-position of letters or characters.
In English, faci-litative neighborhood size effects and inhibitoryneighborhood size effects were robust findings inlow frequency words (e.g.
Andrews, 1989, 1992;Grainger and Jacobs, 1996).
In the Chinese neigh-borhood size study (Huang et al, 2006) and eyemovement study (Tsai et al, 2006), it was sug-gested that the neighborhood size of the first cha-racter constituent played a more important role inlexical processing than did neighborhood size ofthe second character constituent.
Based on the as-sumption that the first character will play a keyrole in whole word reading, the study primarilymanipulated the number of senses of the first cha-racter and attempted to reveal the hypotheses ofsense representation in the context provided by thesecond character.The question left in Huang et al (2009) wasthat whether the sense inhibition in the RH wasdue to the nature of hemispheric processing indealing with semantic ambiguity or the semanticactivation from the separate-entry representationfor senses.
Considering the sense inhibition in theN400 of the ERP component, the pattern in theirdata was that words having many senses weremore negative than those having few senses.
Thatis, there existed competition when the first charac-ters of the targets had many related senses.
Never-theless, based on the single entry assumption forrelated senses, we assumed sense facilitation forthe representation of senses.In Huang et al (2009), they required subjectsto make word/ non-word lexical decision, but sub-jects might make their judgments based on percep-tual familiarity rather than the involvement oflexical access.
Previous studies on probabilisticphonotactics (Vitevitch and Luce, 1998) or onChinese semantic combinability (Cheng, 2006)have demonstrated opposing effects in early andlate levels of word processing.
In order to clarifythe results in Huang et al (2009), we designed the46word class judgment task to deepen the difficultyof the experimental procedure.2 The experimentBy changing the depth of the task, the goal of theexperiment was to find out if, under the assump-tion of single entry representation for senses, therewas a chance to discover the sense facilitation inthe RH.
Suppose the representation of Chinesesenses had single entry, words having more sensesshould be less negative than few senses in theN400 because of the benefits of semantic activa-tion.
On the contrary, if there were multiple entriesfor senses in the RH, words of more senses shouldbe more negative than few senses and displayedsemantic competition and inhibition.2.1 Participants38 college students (18 to28 years of age, meanage 22.39) took part in the experiment (male, right-handedness).
Written consent was obtained fromall participants.
The study was approved by theTaiwan governmental ethics committee.2.2 Materials120 Chinese disyllabic compounds, counterba-lanced with word class (noun/ verb), were dividedinto four subsets according to visual field (LVF/RVF) and NOS of the first character (few/ manysenses).
Few-sense words were those whose firstcharacter senses were from 1 to 3 (mean 1.97)whereas many-sense words were those whose firstcharacter senses were over 6 (mean 11.38).
Possi-ble confounding factors such as word frequency,NS1, NS2 were controlled.The number of senses in the current study wascollected from the Chinese WordNet, a lexical cor-pus of Mandarin Chinese and established by Aca-demia Sinica in Taiwan.
The corpus attempts tobuild an up-to-date Chinese lexical network andprovides complete information of Chinese wordsenses.In Chinese, there exists controversy over thedistinction of verbs and nouns.
To avoid this prob-lem, the resolutions included: (1) to label the wordclass according to the system established in Aca-demia Sinica balanced corpus of modern Chineseand (2) to give pilot pretests to another group ofpeople to exclude these possibly confused choices.These subjects were asked to use their languageintuition to write down their word-class judgmentsin a paper sheet containing 120 targets.Table1.
Examples of the stimuliNo.
ofsensesWordclassRVF LVFFew Noun  ??
?a smilingface???
?a hair pin?Few  Verb  ??
?to guess ariddle???
?to takemedicine?Many  Noun  ??
?first prize???
?green tea?Many  Verb  ??
?to stoop???
?to ex-change?2.3 ProcedureEach trial began with a white cross presented cen-trally for 500 ms.
Presentation of the target wordsappeared on the screen for 150 ms.
The disyllabiccompound targets were vertically arranged in theleft or right visual hemifield with inner edge twodegrees of visual angle from fixation.
Presentationof numbers from 1 to 9 appeared pseudorandomlyin the center of the screen in order to control par-ticipants?
eyesight.
At the end of each trial, a capi-tal B was presented in the center to allow eyeblinking for 1500 ms.
Participants were asked notto blink their eyes until the appearance to the capi-tal B to minimize the interference of eye move-ment.Participants were instructed to judge whetherthe compound presented was a noun or a verb.
Forodd-number subjects, they were asked to press theresponse box with both of their index fingers whenthe targets were verbs and with both of their mid-dle fingers when the targets were nouns.
For even-number subjects, the instruction was the opposite.To control the central fixation of eyes, numbersfrom 1 to 9 also appeared pseudorandomly.
Odd-number subjects should press the response boxwith both of their index fingers when number 6 to9 was presented centrally on the screen and withboth of their middle fingers when number 1 to 4was on the screen.
For even-number subjects, in-struction reversed.
Response time and event-related potentials data were both collected duringthe process.47Figure1.
Timing diagram of the experimental procedure2.4 Event-related potential recordingThe electroencephalogram was recorded from 64electrodes embedded in an electro-cap(QuickCap,Neuromedical Supplies, Sterling, Texas, USA),referenced to the left and right mastoid, M1, M2respectively.
Positions of all the electrodes werearranged according to the international ten-twentysystem.
The electroencephalogram was conti-nuously recorded and digitized at a rate of 500 Hz.The signal was amplified by SYNAMPS2 (Neu-roscan Inc., El Paso, Texas, USA) with the band-pass set at 0.5?100 Hz.
Blinks and eye movementswere monitored via electrodes placed on the infra-orbital ridges of the left eye (VEOG) and the outercanthus left and right electrode (HEOG).
A groundelectrode was placed on the forehead anterior tothe FZ electrode.
Electrode impedance was keptbelow 5 kohms.2.5 ERP componentsIn the analyses of the ERP waveforms elicited byevery stimulus in each condition, there were typi-cally composed of a negative-going peak at around100ms (N1), a positive-going peak at around200ms (P200), a negative-going peak maximizingat around 400 ms (N400) over central and parietalelectrode sites.
Among these, N 170 was regardedas the early index for visual detection in wordprocessing.
In the current study, N170 was used toexamine the manipulation of visual field.
N400was characterized as an index sensitive to lan-guage-related processing and was generally consi-dered in response to violations of semanticexpectations (Kutas and Hillyard, 1980).
With thepresentation of a semantically inappropriate or in-congruent word, a large N400 activity would beelicited.
In Huang et al (2009), the 400 in the RHwas regarded as sense competition because wordswith many senses elicit more negativity at around400 ms.3 ResultsBehavioral accuracy below 70 percent and ERPsaccepted trials below 16 were excluded fromANOVA analyses.
Data from 28 of participantswere used in the following behavioral and ERPanalyses.3.1 Behavioral dataA 2?2 (number of senses ?
visual field) analysis ofvariance (ANOVA) was performed on correct RTsand accuracy.
For RTs, no significant main effectof number of senses (F (1, 27) =0.5, p=.48) andinteraction (F (1, 27) =1.33, p=.26) was observed.A main effect of visual field reached marginallysignificance (F (1, 27) = 3.38, p=.077).
Stimulipresented to RVF/ LH had the tendency to produceshorter response time than those presented to LVF/RH.
For accuracy, not any main effect or interac-tion was obtained.3.2 ERP dataTemporal time windows of interest were N170(150-180 ms) and N400 (350-500 ms).
The meanamplitude of each time window from selected elec-trodes served as dependent measures in a repeatedmeasures analysis of variance (ANOVA).3.2.1 N170 (150-180 ms)The mean amplitude of N170 was analyzed byANOVA with factors of visual field (LVF/RVF),number of senses, and electrodes (P3/P4, P5/P6,P7/P8, PO5/ PO6).
We obtained a significant visu-al field ?
electrodes interaction F (7,189) =45.34,p<.001.
Post-hoc comparison indicated that visualfield simple main effects reached statistical signi-ficance in all electrodes (p?s<.001).
In electrodeson the left, P3, P5, P7, PO5, right visual field pres-entation elicited much greater negativity than leftvisual presentation and vice versa in electrodes onthe right, P4, P6, P8, and PO8.3.2.2 N400 (350-500 ms)Mean amplitudes of all conditions were measuredfrom 350 to 500ms and subjected to ANOVA with48factors of visual field, the number of senses, elec-trodes, hemispheres.
The midline analysis revealedmarginal significance of two way interaction be-tween the number of senses and visual field (F (1,27) =3.83, p=.06).
In the lateral analysis, there wasmarginal significance of visual field by number ofsenses interaction (F (1, 27) = 3.18, p=.086) and amarginally significant 4-way interaction of visualfield, number of senses, electrodes and hemis-pheres (F (4, 108) =2.53, p=.072).
Post-hoc com-parisons showed that in the LVF/ RH few sensestended to be more negative than many senses(p<.05) while in the RVF/ LH, few and manysenses did not reveal any difference (p=.73).Figure 2?Grand averaged ERPs at CPZ in the RVF/LH.Figure 3?Grand averaged ERPs at CPZ in the LVF/RH4 DiscussionIn the behavioral data, no significant main effect ofthe number of senses and interaction was observed.Nevertheless, the ERP data demonstrated that therewas marginal significance of two-way interaction(visual field ?
number of senses) and a marginallysignificant 4-way interaction.
Post-hoc comparisonshowed that there were significant sense facilita-tion effects in the RH and no effect in the LH.
ERPwaveforms showed that words of few senses eli-cited more negativity than words of many sensesaround 400 ms in the RH, but the two conditionsdid not differ from each other in the LH.The marginality of statistical significance ledto the speculation in that the word category effectmight dilute the sense effect in the experiment.Many studies, in general, suggested that the neuralsystems for lexical processing of nouns and verbswere anatomically distinct.
For example, in child-ren?s lexical development, the acquisition of nounsseems to be earlier and easier than that of verbs(Gentner, 1982).
In aphasic findings, case studiesindicated that patients with lesions located in leftanterior and middle temporal lobe, outside socalled language areas, had difficulty in the produc-tion of nouns whereas patients with lesions areas inleft frontal premotor cortex had difficulty in theproduction of verbs (Damasio & Damasio, 1992;Damasio et al, 1993).
Evidence from event-relatedpotentials also disclosed electrocortical differencesbetween nouns and verbs over widespread corticalareas (Pulverm?ller et al, 1999).
Therefore, verbswere assumed to elicit stronger electrocortical ac-tivity around primary frontal, prefrontal areas as-sociated with motor, premotor functions.
Nouns,associated with concrete and well-imaginablemeanings related to visual modality, were assumedto elicit larger electrocortical activity around visualcortices.There was also evidence indicating that theconclusions were oversimplified.
For example,Tyler et al (2001, PET) found no significant actiondifferences for nouns and verbs in lexical decisionand semantic categorization task.
Similarly, in anfMRI Chinese study, Li et al (2004) pointed outthat nouns and verbs were found to activate a widerange of overlapping brain areas and suggesteddistributed networks for either word class.
Onerecent Chinese study on concreteness also showedsimilar distribution over the scalp for both nounsand verbs (Tsai et al, 2008).The study was not meant to resolve the con-troversy of neural representations for nous andverbs.
Instead, from the marginal significance ofthe data in the experiment, we speculated that theword class effect may influence the results, whichled to the failure to reach significance in overalldata.
Therefore, we reanalyzed the data with theaddition word class as one within-subject factor.4.1 Re-analyses49To further examine the sense effect in nouns andverbs condition, separate analyses of ANOVAwere carried out according to different wordclasses.4.2 Behavioral dataA 2?2?2 (number of senses ?
visual field ?
wordclass) analysis of variance (ANOVA) was per-formed on correct RTs and accuracy.
For RTs, re-sults showed marginally significant effects forvisual field (F (1, 27) = 3.38, p=.077) and wordclass (F (1, 27) = 2.97, p=.096) and for number ofsenses ?
word class interaction (F (1, 27) = 2.94,p=.098).
Stimuli presented to the RVF/ LH tendedto responded more quickly than to the LVF/ RH.Stimuli of nouns had shorter response time thanstimuli of verbs.
For accuracy analysis, nouns hadsignificant higher accuracy than verbs (word class(F (1, 27) =5.41, p<.05).4.3 ERP dataThe grand mean ERPs elicited by few and manysenses in RVF/ LH and LVF/ RH were presentedin nouns and verbs separately.4.3.1 NounsIn the midline, there was a marginally significantnumber of senses ?
electrodes interaction (F (4,108) = 2.8, p<.08).
Lateral analyses indicated thatthere was a significant visual field ?
number ofsenses ?
electrode interaction (F (1, 27) = 3.65,p<.05).
Planned comparison showed that onlywhen stimuli presented to the LVF/ RH, fewsenses were more negative in C, CP, P (p?s <.05 to<.01).4.3.2 VerbsIn the midline analysis, there was no significantmain effect of senses or interaction.
In the lateralanalyses, there were significant interactions of vis-ual field ?
number of senses (F (1, 27) =4.69,p<.05) and visual field ?
number of senses ?
elec-trodes ?
hemispheres (F (4, 108) = 4.23, p<.01).Planned comparisons of four way interactionshowed that when presented to LVF/ RH, fewsenses were more negative in F3, C3, CP3 and FC4(p?s<.05 to <.01) whereas when presented to theRVF/ LH, there was no difference between fewand many senses.5 DiscussionThe purpose of additional analyses of sense effectsin nouns and verbs was to examine clearer effectsof senses without the confounding of the wordclass factor.
The separate analyses for nouns andverbs both showed significant sense effects in thelateral sites.
Furthermore, planned comparison ofthe senses demonstrated disparate distributions fornouns and verbs respectively.
To be more specific,the sense effects for nouns were located in central-to-parietal areas of brain, whereas these effects forverbs primarily showed up in frontal, central, cen-tral-parietal electrodes on the left.
The re-analysesof ERP data showed that the differences of distri-bution from either word category diluted the senseeffect observed in the first analysis; therefore, thedata was only marginally significant in the originalanalyses.
Besides, though the current study was notmeant to resolve the representations for differentword categories, the additional results seemed tosupport the distinct neural representations fornouns and verbs, since each word class had its dis-tribution for the sense effects.
Certainly, furtherevidence of Chinese word class was required toapprove the statement since there was also evi-dence suggesting distributed network for Chineselexical processing (e.g.
Li et al, 2004).According to previous studies, different levelsof processing in perception of words would lead toopposing results (e.g.
Vitevitch and Luce, 1998;Cheng, 2006).
Suppose the results were derivedfrom the single entry representation of senses, thesense effect should be observed in the RH in theexperiment since the depth of the task was changed.In other words, when subjects were undergoing adeeper level of lexical processing, the relatednessof senses might have been early processed in theLH due to the engagement in fine semanticprocessing; on the other hand, the sense effectmight appear in the RH because its capacity al-lowed alternate meanings to maintain.
Hence, in adeeper level of task, which slowed down the se-mantic processing, the facilitative sense effect wasobserved in the RH.Overall, we suggested that the representationof Chinese senses be single entry and obtained thesense facilitation effects in LVF/ RH in which few50senses were more negative than many senses bothin nouns and verbs.
We assumed that the resultsalso provided empirical evidence indicating thatthe construction of Chinese WordNet has psycho-logical validity.6 ConclusionsThe study attempted to find out whether the repre-sentation of senses in the RH was single-or sepa-rate-entry.
When the depth of task was changed,the RH advantage for the processing of semantical-ly related senses was observed.
The finding wasconsistent with recent studies on the representationof polysemy (e.g.
Beretta et al 2005; Pylkk?nen etal.
2006, Rodd et al, 2002).AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by grants from Taiwan Na-tional Science Council (NSC 94-2411-H-001-068, 95-2413-H-010-002?and NSC 96-2628-H-001-058) and thetheme project of brain, cognition and behavioral sciencefrom Academia Sinica, Taiwan (AS-93-TP-C05).
Theauthors would like to give gratitude to Jie-Li Tsai, Hsu-wen Huang, Chun-Hsien Hsu and Wen-Hsuan Chan,Chiaju Chou who gave technical support, valuable sug-gestions and comments on the early draft of this paper.ReferencesAcademia Sinica balanced corpus (version 3).
(1998).Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.Azuma, T. & Van Orden, G. C. (1997).
Why SAFE IsBetter Than FAST: The Relatedness of aWord's Meanings Affects Lexical DecisionTimes.
Journal of Memory and Language,36(4), 484-504.Beretta, A., Fiorentino, R., & Poeppel, D. (2005).
Theeffects of homonymy and polysemy on lexicalaccess: an MEG study.
Cognitive Brain Re-search, 24(1), 57-65.Burgess, C., & Simpson, G. B.
(1988).
Cerebral hemis-pheric mechanisms in the retrieval of ambi-guous word meanings.
Brain Lang, 33(1), 86-103.Damasio A. R. & Daniel, T. (1993).
Nouns and verbsare retrieved with differently distributed neuralsystems.
Paper presented at the Proceedings ofthe National Academy of Science.Faust, M., & Lavidor, M. (2003).
Semantically conver-gent and semantically divergent priming in thecerebral hemispheres: lexical decision and se-mantic judgment.
Cognitive Brain Research,17(3), 585-597.Federmeier, K. D. & Kutas, M. (1999).
Right words andleft words: electrophysiological evidence forhemispheric differences in meaning processing.Cognitive Brain Research, 8(3), 373-392.Huang, C-Y, Huang, H-W, Tsai, J-L, Huang, C-C &Lee, C-Y (2009, October).
Number of senseseffects of Chinese disyllabic compounds in twohemispheres.
Poster presented at the 13th In-ternational Conference on the Processing ofEast Asian Languages, Beijing Normal Univer-sity, Beijing, China.Huang, H. W., Lee, C. Y., Tsai, J. L., Lee, C. L., Hung,D.
L., & Tzeng, O. J.
(2006).
Orthographicneighborhood effects in reading Chinese two-character words.
Neuroreport, 17(10), 1061-1065.Kutas, M., & Hillyard, S. A.
(1980).
Reading senselesssentences: brain potentials reflect semantic in-congruity.
Science, 207(4427), 203.Lyons, J.
(1977).
Semantics.
Cambridge, England:Cambridge University Press.Pulvermuller, F., Lutzenberger, W., & Preissl, H. (1999).Nouns and Verbs in the Intact Brain: Evidencefrom Event-related Potentials and High-frequency Cortical Responses.
Cerebral Cortex,9(5), 497-506.Pylkk?nen, L., Llin?s, R., & Murphy, G. L. (2006).
Therepresentation  of Polysemy: MEG Evidence.Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 18(1), 97-109.Rodd, J., Gaskell, G., & Marslen-Wilson, W. (2002).Making Sense of Semantic Ambiguity: Seman-tic Competition in Lexical Access.
Journal ofMemory and Language, 46(2), 245-266.Rubenstein, H., Garfield, L., & Millikan, J.
A.
(1970).Homographic entries in the internal lexicon.Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Beha-vior, 9(5), 487?494.Vitevitch, M. S., & Luce, P. A.
(1998).
When WordsCompete: Levels of Processing in Perceptionof Spoken Words.
Psychological Science, 9(4),325-329.51
