Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 40?48,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsRepresenting Story Plans in SUMOJeffrey CuaCenter for Human Language TechnologiesDe La Salle University, Manila, Philippinescuajeffreyleonardcompro1@yahoo.comEthel OngCollege of Computer StudiesDe La Salle University, Manila, Philippinesethel.ong@delasalle.phRuli ManurungFaculty of Computer ScienceUniversity of Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesiamaruli@cs.ui.ac.idAdam PeaseArticulate SoftwareAngwin, California, USAapease@articulatesoftware.comAbstractAutomatic story generation systems require abody of commonsense knowledge about thebasic relationships between concepts we findeveryday in our world in order to produce in-teresting narratives that describe human ac-tions and world events.
This paper presents anongoing work that investigates the use ofSuggested Upper Merged Ontology (SUMO)to represent storytelling knowledge and its in-ference engine Sigma to query actions andevents that may take place in the story to begenerated.
The resulting story plan (fabula) isalso represented in SUMO, allowing for a sin-gle story representation to be realized in vari-ous human languages.1 IntroductionPeople combine words and events from theirknowledge source of words, their meanings andtheir relationships in order to tell stories about theirlives, their communities, and their daily expe-riences.
In order for computers to achieve the samelevel of expressiveness to provide a more fluentman-machine interaction, they must be providedwith the same collection of knowledge about thebasic relationships between things and events.Picture Books (Solis et al 2009), an automaticstory generator that generates story text for child-ren from a given input set of picture elements(backgrounds, characters and objects), utilized asemantic ontology whose design has been adaptedfrom ConceptNet (Liu and Singh, 2004).
Thebackground serves as the setting of the story and isalso used to determine the theme.
Semantic con-cepts needed by the story planner, specifically ob-jects, story events, and character actions areclassified according to the semantic categories ofConceptNet, namely things, spatial, events, ac-tions, and functions.
This mapping approach con-strained the flexibility of the system, as newthemes would entail repopulating the sequences ofpossible events manually into the knowledge base.Events and actions are selected according to theirassociated themes, and not marked with precondi-tions that specify constraints under which certainactions can be performed and the correspondingconsequential events that may arise.Swartjes (2006) developed a story world ontolo-gy containing two layers, the upper story worldontology and the domain-specific world ontology.The upper story world ontology is independent ofany story structures or story domains and models avast amount of possible actions and events.
It isalso limited to high-level concepts that are meta,generic or abstract to address a broad range of do-main areas.
A domain-specific story world ontolo-gy, on the other hand, applies the upper storyworld ontology to a certain story domain.Kooijman (2004) suggests the use of the Sug-gested Upper Merged Ontology (SUMO) as anupper ontology to capture the semantics of worldknowledge.
SUMO (Niles and Pease, 2001) is an40open source formal and public ontology.
It is a col-lection of well-defined and well-documented con-cepts, interconnected into a logical theory.
Itnumbers some 20,000 terms and 70,000 axioms.Axioms are in first-order logic form (with somehigher order extensions) and reflect commonsensenotions that are generally recognized among theconcepts.
They place a constraint on the interpreta-tion of concepts and provide guidelines for auto-mated reasoning systems such as Sigma (Pease,2003).
Formal terms in SUMO are mapped to syn-sets in WordNet (Pease, 2006).There are other noteworthy ontologies that canbe considered.
Like SUMO, Cyc (Lenat, 1995) is alarge-scale, language-independent and extensibleknowledge base and commonsense reasoning en-gine, but it is proprietary and its open-source ver-sion, OpenCyc1, has no inference rules.
DOLCE(Gangemi, 2003) is a small-scale descriptive on-tology with a cognitive orientation.
BFO (Smith,1998) is another small-scale upper ontology sup-porting domain ontologies developed for scientificresearch domain, such as biomedicine.
Thus, noontology other than SUMO had the characteristicsof being comprehensive enough to include forma-lizations that represent detailed elements of every-day life (e.g., furniture, breaking an object,emotion), being open-source, having expressive-ness of at least first order predicate calculus so thatarbitrary rules about actions and consequences canbe represented, having an associated open-sourcefirst-order inference engine, and a language gener-ation capability so that stories can be automaticallypresented in multiple human languagesThis paper presents SUMOs (SUMO Stories),an automatic story generator that uses first-orderlogic to declaratively describe models of the world,specifically those aspects of the world thatrepresent storytelling knowledge for children?sstories of the fable form.
The story planner thenutilizes an open source browsing and inferenceengine Sigma to infer this knowledge to generate astory plan (fabula) also in first-order logic form.Using first-order logic enables a less restrictedsemantics compared to description logic, which iscommonly used for knowledge representation oflarge ontologies.
Though having lesser constraintswill have an impact on the speed of inference, it isovercome by the advantage of having greater re-1OpenCyc web site, http://www.opencyc.org/presentational capability.
In particular, the axi-omatic nature of actions and their consequences, soessential for reasoning about narrative structures, isnot supported by description logics, which focuson category and instance membership reasoning.Section 2 provides a background on the know-ledge required by story generation and how thesewere represented in Picture Books, which is usedas the basis for the storytelling knowledge.
Section3 discusses the representation of the storytellingknowledge to SUMO.
The SUMOs architecturedepicting the interaction between the story plannerand Sigma to derive the story plan is then pre-sented in Section 4.
The paper concludes with asummary of what we have accomplished so far,and presents further work that can be done.2 Storytelling KnowledgeTheune and her colleagues (2006) presented fivelevels of the different aspects of a story that mustbe represented in the semantic network.
These arethe story world knowledge, character representa-tions, a causal and temporal network to representplot structures, representational model of narrato-logical concepts, and the representation of the sto-ry?s potential effects on the user.
Only the first fourlevels are included in this study.According to Swartjes (2006), a story is com-posed of a story world where the story takes place,the characters that interact in the story world, andthe associated objects.
Consider the story generat-ed by Picture Books in Table 1 about Rizzy therabbit who learns to be honest (Hong et al 2008).The afternoon was windy.
Rizzy the rabbit was in thedining room.
She played near a lamp.
Rizzy broke thelamp.
She was scared.
Mommy Francine saw that thelamp was broken.
Rizzy told Mommy Francine that Da-niel broke the lamp.
Daniel the dog told her that he didnot break the lamp.
Daniel was upset.
He got punished.Mommy Francine told Daniel that he was grounded.
Hecried.
Rizzy felt guilty.
She told Mommy Francine thatshe broke the lamp.
Mommy Francine told Rizzy thatshe should have been honest.
Rizzy apologized toMommy Francine.
Mommy Francine forgave Rizzy.Rizzy apologized to Daniel.
He forgave her.
MommyFrancine told Rizzy to be honest.
She told her that beinghonest is good.
From that day onwards, Rizzy alwayswas honest.Table 1.
Sample story generated by Picture Books(Hong et al 2008)41The story elements in Table 1 were determinedfrom the background (i.e., dining room), the cha-racters (i.e., Rizzy and her mommy Francine) andobject (i.e., lamp) that the child user places intohis/her picture using the Picture Editor of the sys-tem in Figure 1.The background serves as the main setting of thestory, and combined with the selected objects, isused to determine the theme.
Consider the bed-room setting.
If the associated object is a lamp,then the theme is about bravery (i.e., do not beafraid of the dark).
If the object is a set of toyblocks, the theme can be about being neat.
In Pic-ture Books, such associations are manually deter-mined and entered into the database.
In SUMOs,these associations should be inferred automaticallythrough axioms that should be commonsense, andnot be explicit encoding of narrative knowledge.Figure 2.
Picture Editor (Hong et al 2008)Stories generated by Picture Books follow a ba-sic plot dictated by Machado (2003) that flowsfrom negative to positive and comprises four sub-plots, namely the problem, rising action, solutionand climax.
The theme is subdivided into thesefour subplots, each representing a major event inthe story.Each subplot contains at least two author goalsrepresenting the goal of the scene and the corres-ponding consequence of the goal.
An author goal istranslated into one or more character goals, eachrepresenting an action performed by the character(main, secondary, or adult character) in order toachieve the author goal.
A character goal translatesdirectly to one declarative sentence in the generat-ed story.
Table 2 shows the author goals and thecharacter goals for some of the sentences in thestory in Table 1.The design of the character goal is based fromthe action operators of Uijlings (2006) which iseasily transformed to a declarative sentence in ac-tive voice using the surface realizer simpleNLG(Venour and Reiter, 2008).
In the case of PictureBooks, however, the approach resulted in a storywhere every sentence describes an action or a feel-ing (i.e., scared, guilty, upset) that is performed bythe character, as seen in Table 1.Subplot #1Author goal 1.1:Goal of the scene Child is doing an activityCharacter goal <character> plays <object>Resulting text Rizzy the rabbit played near a lamp.Author goal 1.2:Goal consequence Child caused a problemCharacter goal <character> destroys <object>Resulting text Rizzy broke the lamp.Subplot #2Author goal 2.1:Goal of the scene Child liedCharacter goal<main character> told <adultcharacter> that <secondarycharacter> <did the action>Resulting text Rizzy told Mommy Francine that Daniel the dog broke the lamp.Author goal 2.2:Goal consequence Another child gets punishedCharacter goal #1 <secondary character> receives<punishment>Resulting text #1 Daniel the dog got punished.Character goal #2<adult character> issues <pu-nishment> to <secondary cha-racter>Resulting text #2 Mommy Francine told Danielthat he was grounded.Table 2.
Sample author goals and character goals asso-ciated with the theme Being Honest (Hong et al 2008)The story planner of Picture Books utilizes twotypes of knowledge, the operational knowledgeand the domain knowledge.
The operational know-ledge contains a static description of the differentbackgrounds and their associated themes and ob-jects, the child characters and their correspondingparent characters, as well as the occupation of the42parents.
For each theme, the set of character goalsneeded to instantiate the major events in the themeare also specified.The domain knowledge, on the other hand, con-tains a semantic description of objects and eventsthat can occur, as well as actions that can be per-formed.
For example, breaking an object results togetting punished, and grounded is a form of pu-nishment.Character goals are instantiated by accessing thesemantic ontology to search for concepts that aredirectly related to the input concept.
There are twosearch methods.
The first method searches foranother concept that has a relationship with thegiven concept while satisfying the semantic cate-gory.
For example, ontoSpatial(?play?)
triggers asearch for all concepts connected to play within thespatial semantic category, such as the semanticrelationship locationOf(?play?, ?park?).
The secondmethod searches for a path that semantically re-lates the two given concepts.
For example, ontoAc-tion(?vase?, ?method of destruction?)
triggers asearch for a path to relate how a vase can be de-stroyed, and yields the following relationships:CapableOf(?break?, ?vase?
)Isa(?method of destruction?, ?break?
)3 Representing Storytelling Knowledge inSUMOA crucial part of the work involved in the devel-opment of SUMOs is the representation of the sto-rytelling knowledge and the evolving story plan inSUMO and the use of the Sigma reasoning engineto infer story facts and events.The storytelling knowledge represented inSUMO includes the semantic description aboutconcepts, objects and their relationships.
From agiven input set of story elements comprising theselected background, characters, and objects, aquery is sent to Sigma to determine a possiblestarting action that can be performed by the maincharacter in the story.
The story then progressesbased on the relationships of character actions andreactions, which are the stored facts in SUMO.Similar to Picture Books, the resulting story planis created based on a pre-authored plot of problem,rising action, resolution and climax.
But instead ofattaching the next set of actions and emotions ofcharacters to author goals, in SUMOs, the set ofactions that a character can do ?
reaction to eventsand objects, experience emotions such as joy andsadness, and subsequent actions based on theiremotions ?
are represented in SUMO logic.The storytelling knowledge was formulated us-ing a set of predicates that can be classified intofour main types.
Factual predicates specify proper-ties of characters, objects, and locations.
Semanticpredicates define the semantic relationships be-tween concepts.
Actions and events predicates de-fine the causal relationships between actions andevents.
Thematic predicates represent a new set ofpredicates to relate story themes to actions.3.1 Conceptualizing Story Characters, Ob-jects, and BackgroundsFactual predicates represent the characters, theirroles, the locations, and the objects that may com-prise a story.
The class and subclass axioms ofSUMO2 are used to define the set of characters,objects and locations.Children?s stories of the fable form are por-trayed by animals that can capture the  imagina-tion and attention of the readers.
Animal charactersare given names, such as Ellen the elephant, Rizzythe rabbit, and Leo the lion, to give the impressionthat the characters are friends that the children aregetting to know better through reading the story(Solis et al 2009).
Representing this in SUMOentails the use of the subclass axiom to representclass inheritance as shown below:(subclass RabbitCharacter StoryCharacter)Class definitions include slots that describe theattributes of instances of the class and their rela-tions to other instances (Noy, 2001).
A character inSUMOs has the attributes type (whether adult orchild), gender, and name.
An example axiom torepresent a female child RabbitCharacter whosename will be ?Rizzy?
is shown below.
Similaraxioms are defined for all the other characters.
(=>(and(instance ?RABBIT RabbitCharacter)(attribute ?RABBIT Female)(attribute ?RABBIT Child))(name ?RABBIT "Rizzy"))Backgrounds and objects are also defined usingthe subclass axiom and inherit from existingclasses in SUMO, for example,2SUMO Ontology Portal, http://www.ontologyportal.org/43(subclass LivingRoom Room)(subclass Lamp LightFixture)(subclass Lamp ElectricDevice)(attribute Lamp Fragile)Further definitions can be provided for livingroom to differentiate it from other rooms, such asbeing disjoint from bathroom, and has a primarypurpose of supporting social interaction, as shownbelow.
Similarly, the definition for lamp can alsobe extended to distinguish it from other electriclight fixtures, e.g., a lamp is moveable unlike achandelier, but is plugged in when operating unlikea flashlight.
(=>(instance ?R LivingRoom)(hasPurpose ?R(exists (?S)(and(instance ?S SocialInteraction)(located ?S ?R)))))(disjoint  LivingRoom Bathroom)3.2 Representing Semantic ConceptsAside from the properties of objects that are mod-eled using the attribute axiom, semantic relation-ships that may hold between two conceptsinvolving types of activities or actions, characteremotions, locations of objects, and abilities of cha-racters or objects must also be modeled.
Table 3shows sample semantic relationships for these con-cepts as represented in Picture Books, followingthe semantic categories of ConceptNet (Liu andSingh, 2004).Objects IsA (doll, toys)Activities IsA (play games, activity)ConceptsIsA (grounded, punishment)IsA (disorder, problem)IsA (no appetite, problem)IsA (dizzy, discomfort)IsA (itchy, discomfort)Emotions IsA (happy, emotion) IsA (scared, emotion)Reaction toEventsEffectOf (break object, scared)EffectOf (meet new friends, smile)Location LocationOf (toys, toy store)CapabilityCapableOf (lamp, break)CapableOf (glass of water, break)CanBe (toys, scattered)Table 3.
Semantic relationships in Picture Books basedon ConceptNet (Hong et al 2008)In SUMOs, all isA(entity1, entity2) relationswere replaced with the axiom (subclass entity1entity2).
To specify that an entity is in a location,i.e., locationOf(toys, toy store), first, we create aninstance of a toystore and then specify that a cer-tain toy instance is in that toystore, as follows:(=>(instance ?TOYSTORE ToyStore)(exists (?TOY)(and(instance ?TOY Toy)(located ?TOY ?TOYSTORE))))The capability axiom is used to conceptualizethe capability relation (capability ?process ?role?obj).
It specifies that ?obj has the specified ?rolein the ?process.
For example, a lamp or a glass isthe patient (receiver) of the process breaking,while a toy is the patient for the process scattering.
(capability Breaking experiencer Lamp)(capability Breaking experiencer Glass)(capability Scattering experiencer Toy)Reaction to events is expressed using the if-elseaxiom of SUMO, for example, if a child charactercauses an accident (a damage), then he/she willfeel anxiety.
Emotions are represented using theattribute relation.
(=>(and(instance ?ACCIDENT Damaging)(instance ?CHARACTER StoryCharacter)(attribute ?CHARACTER Child)(agent ?ACCIDENT ?CHARACTER))((attribute ?CHARACTER Anxiety)))3.3 Conceptualizing Actions and EventsSwartjes (2006) noted that organizing actions andevents, and causally relating them, is an essentialstep in story generation.
Independent of the storyplot, the causes and effects of character actions canbe used to describe the events that form the story.Actions define activities that can be performedby a character in the story, such as play, tell a lie,or cry.
Events, on the other hand, occur in the storyas a result of performing some actions, such as alamp breaking as a result of a character or an ob-ject hitting it.
Swartjes (2006) further notes thatevents are not executed by a character.Action predicates are used to define the actionsthat may take place given a set of world state.
Con-sider the axiom below which provides a set of four44possible actions ?
RecreationOrExercise, Looking,Maintaining, and Poking ?
that can be performed(as an agent) or experienced by a child characterwho is situated near a lamp object in the storyworld.
These four actions are subclasses of the In-tentionalProcess of SUMO.
(=>(and(orientation ?CHARACTER ?OBJECT Near)(instance ?CHARACTER StoryCharacter)(attribute ?CHARACTER Child)(instance ?OBJECT Lamp))(and(capability RecreationOrExerciseexperiencer ?CHARACTER)(capability Looking experiencer ?CHARACTER)(capability Maintaining experiencer ?CHARACTER)(capability Poking experiencer ?CHARACTER)))Again, the capability relation is used but in thisinstance, to specify that the character has the roleof experiencing the specified process.
While boththe agent and the experiencer roles represent thedoer of a process, an experiencer does not entail acausal relation between its arguments.Event predicates are used to model explicitevents that may take place as a result of some cha-racter actions.
Consider again the exists axiom be-low which states that an instance of an event (inthis case damaging) can occur when there is achild character (the agent) playing near a fragileobject.
The subprocess axiom is used to represent atemporally distinguished part of a process and alsoexpresses a chain of cause and effect subprocessesfor playing and damaging.
The recipient (patient)of the event is the object.
(=>(and(agent ?X ?CHARACTER)(instance ?CHARACTER StoryCharacter)(attribute ?CHARACTER Child)(instance ?OBJECT Object)(attribute ?OBJECT Fragile)(instance ?X RecreationOrExercise)(orientation ?CHARACTER ?OBJECT Near)(exists (?DAMAGE)(and(instance ?DAMAGE Damaging)(subProcess ?DAMAGE ?X)(agent ?DAMAGE ?CHARACTER)(patient ?DAMAGE ?OBJECT))))Although suitable for inference, the given axiomdoes not fully capture the desired truth as the no-tion of time is not represented.
The axiom says ?ifa child plays at any point in time, and is near anobject at any point in time (not necessarily whileplaying), then the object gets damaged duringplaying?.
The more accurate axiom below usesholdsDuring to show that the time frames of theactual playing and being near the object are thesame, thus increasing the likelihood of the charac-ter who is playing to cause the damage.
(=>(and(instance ?X RecreationOrExercise)(agent ?X ?CHARACTER)(instance ?CHARACTER StoryCharacter)(attribute ?CHARACTER Child)(instance ?OBJECT Object)(attribute ?OBJECT Fragile)(holdsDuring (WhenFn ?X)(orientation ?CHARACTER ?OBJECT Near))(exists (?DAMAGE)(and(instance ?DAMAGE Damaging)(subProcess ?DAMAGE ?X)(agent ?DAMAGE ?CHARACTER)(patient ?DAMAGE ?OBJECT))))As the representation shows, SUMO is quite ca-pable of encoding temporal properties of eventswith its temporal qualification.
However, inferenc-ing with rules involving time relations betweenevents is currently not supported by Sigma (Cordaet al 2008).
Nevertheless, efforts are underway toperform true higher-order logical inference (Sut-cliffe et al 2009).The next step involves deriving axioms torepresent the different ways in which an object canbe damaged depending on its attribute, for exam-ple, fragile objects can break while paper-basedobjects such as books and paintings can be torn.Consideration must also be made to determine if adamage is an accident or intentional.3.4 Conceptualizing Story ThemesThemes can also be mapped to SUMO as thematicpredicates, and the story planner can identify atheme either based on the first action that was per-formed, or based on user selection.
In the lattercase, when Sigma returns all possible actions, theplanner can choose one based on the theme.454 System ArchitectureThe architecture of SUMOs, shown in Figure 2,has two main modules, the Story Editor and theStory Planner, both of which interact with Sigma3to retrieve story facts from the SUMO ontology aswell as to assert new axioms representing the de-veloping story plan back to SUMO.Figure 2.
Architecture of SUMOsThe Story Editor handles the generation of as-sertions corresponding to the input picture ele-ments specified by the user.The Story Planner is responsible for planningthe flow of events in the story.
It uses a meta-knowledge about children?s story comprising offive phases ?
introduction, problem, rising action,solution, and climax.
The planner determines andphrases the queries that are sent to Sigma and ge-nerates additional axioms based on the query re-sults in order to expand the story plan.
Thegenerated axioms are asserted back to Sigma forinclusion in the SUMO ontology to be used againfor further inferencing.Queries sent to Sigma can be classified intothree categories.
Concept-based queries concernclasses and instances, and are used to determinedirect and indirect subclass and class-instance rela-tionships while relation-based queries infer know-ledge by considering transitivity, symmetry andinversion of relations (Corda et al 2008).
Action-based queries identify a set of actions based on the3Sigma Knowledge Engineering Environment,http://sigmakee.sourceforge.netcurrent world state to drive the story.
A fourth cat-egory, time-event queries, currently not supportedby Sigma, should reason about temporal and event-based specifications.The interaction between the Story Planner andSigma in Figure 2 raises an issue of search control.In Picture Books and SUMOs, information thatguides the story planning can be bottom-up, i.e.
theactions and events are determined based on what ispossible within the story ontology, e.g.
through thevarious capability axioms, or top-down, i.e.
actionsare selected based on Machado's narrative subplotknowledge.
Currently, the Story Planner is respon-sible for managing the process.
However, if boththese sources of knowledge and constraints can berepresented in first-order logic, the search controlof the story planning process can be recast as atheorem proving task, i.e.
one that searches for aproof that satisfies all constraints.
This is a futureresearch direction.The following section presents a more detailedtrace of system operation and the contents of a sto-ry plan in first-order logic.4.1 Generating Story PlansThe first part of the story plan contains assertionsto represent the initial elements of the story.
Usingthe story in Table 1 as an example, lines 1 to 6 be-low assert the main child character and her parent,while lines 7 to 8 assert the background and theobject, respectively.1>   (instance Rabbit1 RabbitCharacter)2>  (attribute Rabbit1 Child)3>  (attribute Rabbit1 Female)4>  (instance Rabbit2 RabbitCharacter)5>  (attribute Rabbit2 Adult)6>  (attribute Rabbit2 Female)7>  (instance LivingRoom1 LivingRoom)8>  (instance Lamp1 Lamp)The next step involves initializing the locationsof these story elements.
Currently, it is setup thatall objects would be situated in the background andthe first child character would always be near thefirst object, as shown in the assertions below.9>  (located Rabbit1 LivingRoom1)10>  (located Lamp1 LivingRoom1)11>  (orientation Rabbit1 Lamp1 Near)This, however, creates the assumption that thechild character is already in the location near ob-jects which he will interact with, which may notreturnresultsabstractstory planassertionsassertionsobtainresultsStoryEditor SUMOOntology(StoryOntology)SIGMA(InferenceEngine)StoryPlannerStory plan(SUMO)query46necessarily be true and reduces the flexibility ofthe system.
In order to create more varied stories,the initial location can be identified based on thetheme and the first event that the user would wantto likely happen in the story.From the initial set of assertions, the story plan-ner issues its first concept-based query to Sigmawith ?
(name Rabbit1 ?X)?
to determine a name forthe main character, Rabbit1, and receives ?Rizzy?as a result.
This is asserted to the story plan as:12>  (name Rabbit1 ?Rizzy?
)The next query is the first action-based queryused to determine the first action to start the storyflow.
Given ?
(capability ?X experiencer Rabbit1)?,which is intended for identifying the set of possiblestarting actions that the main character, Rabbit1,can perform with the object in the background,Sigma returns the following list (assuming the sto-ry facts given in the previous section):X = [RecreationOrExercise, Looking,Maintaining, Poking]Assuming the planner selects RecreationOrEx-ercise, the following assertions are then added tothe story plan:13>  (instance RecOrEx1 RecreationOrExercise)14>  (agent RecOrEx1 Rabbit1)At this point, the introduction phase of the storyplan has been completed.
The problem phase be-gins with a query to identify any instances of prob-lems that can occur, i.e.
?
(instance ?X Damaging)?.Damaging the object lamp causes its attribute to bechanged, and again we query Sigma for thischange of state with ?
(attribute Lamp1 ?X)?
yieldingthe result broken, and the corresponding emotionalstate of the character ?
(attribute Rabbit1 ?X)?.
Thefollowing assertions were added to the plan:15>  (instance (sk0 Rabbit1 Lamp1RecOrEx1) Damaging)16>  (attribute Lamp1 Broken)17>  (attribute Rabbit1 Anxiety)While a full explanation of skolemization is notpossible here for space reasons, we note that thesecond argument of assertion #15 (derived fromSigma?s answer to the query) stands for the exis-tence of an unnamed term, in this case, that there isan instance of a Damaging process.
The agent(Rabbit1), patient (Lamp1), and the action (RecO-rEx1) that caused the problem were all provided inthe query result.4.2 Generating Surface TextSUMO-based story plans provide a form of inter-lingua where story details are represented in logi-cal form.
The logical representation allowsgeneration of the same story in different languages(that are connected to WordNet).
Sigma alreadyhas a language generator, with templates for Eng-lish, and an initial set for Tagalog (Borra et al2010).
Work is currently underway to enhance theexisting language generator in Sigma and make thegenerated text more natural.
Sigma can then beused to generate stories automatically from theknowledge asserted in the story generation process.5 Conclusions and Further WorkThe paper presented a preliminary work aimed atrepresenting storytelling knowledge in SUMO andusing Sigma as inference engine to assist the plan-ner in generating story plans.
Further work focuseson modeling the emotional state of the character asa result of some event (e.g., feeling worried, guiltyor scared due to causing some problems in theworld state), changes in character traits as the storyprogresses (e.g., from negative trait to positive traitas the story flows from rule violation to value ac-quisition), and enhancing the representation forstory themes.
Once a set of knowledge has beendeveloped, these should be evaluated systematical-ly through validation of the rules for logical consis-tency with the theorem prover.
A future goal is toapply the metrics proposed by Callaway & Lester(2002) in StoryBook to evaluate with actual usersif the generated stories are better and more variedas compared to that of Picture Books.Although SUMO is quite capable ofrepresenting time and sequences, reasoning withtemporally qualified expression is challenging forany theorem prover.
The works of (Sutcliffe et al2009) to extend the inference engine to handle rea-soning over temporal relations should be exploredfurther to allow SUMOs to generate story plansthat consider temporal relations between actionsand events.Finally, story generators will benefit its readersif the generated stories are narrated orally.
SUMOscan be explored further to model various emotionsto provide annotations in the surface story textwhich will then be fed to a text to speech tool forspeech generation.47ReferencesBorra, A., Pease, A., Roxas, R. and Dita, S. 2010.
Intro-ducing Filipino WordNet.
In: Principles, Construc-tion and Application of Multilingual Wordnets:Proceedings of the 5th Global WordNet Conference,Mumbai, India.Callaway, C. B., and Lester, J. C. 2002.
Narrative ProseGeneration.
Artificial Intelligence, 139(2):213-252,Elsevier Science Publishers Ltd., Essex, UK.Corda, I., Bennett, B., and Dimitrova, V. 2008.
Interact-ing with an Ontology to Explore Historical Domains.Proceedings of the 2008 First International Work-shop on Ontologies in Interactive Systems, 65-74,IEEE Computer Society.Gangemi, A., Guarino, N., Masolo, C., and Oltramari,A.
2003.
AI Magazine, 24(3):13-24, Association forthe Advancement of Artificial Intelligence.Kooijman, R. 2004.
De virtuele verhalenverteller:voorstel voor het gebruik van een upper-ontology eneen nieuwe architectuur.
Technical  Report.
Universi-ty of Twente, Department of Electrical Engineering,Mathematics and Computer Science.Hong, A., Solis, C., Siy, J.T., and Tabirao, E. 2008.
Pic-ture Books: Automated Story Generator.
Undergra-duate Thesis, De La Salle University, Manila,Philippines.Lenat, D.B.
1995.
Cyc: A Large-Scale Investment inKnowledge Infrastructure, Communications of theACM, 38(11).Liu, H. and Singh, P. 2004.
Commonsense Reasoning inand over Natural Language.
Proceedings of the 8thInternational Conference on Knowledge-Based Intel-ligent Information and Engineering Systems, 293-306, Wellington, New Zealand, Springer Berlin.Machado, J.
2003.
Storytelling.
In Early ChildhoodExperiences in Language Arts: Emerging Literacy,304-319.
Clifton Park, N.Y., Thomson/DelmarLearning.Niles, I. and Pease, A.
2001.
Towards A Standard UpperOntology.
Proceedings of Formal Ontology inInformation Systems (FOIS 2001), 2-9, October 17-19, Ogunquit, Maine, USA.Noy, N. and McGuinness, D. 2001.
Ontology Develop-ment 101: A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology.Stanford Knowledge Systems Laboratory TechnicalReport KSL-01-05 and Stanford Medical InformaticsTechnical Report SMI-2001-0880, March 2001.Ong, E. 2009.
Prospects in Creative Natural LanguageProcessing.
Proceedings of the 6th National NaturalLanguage Processing Research Symposium, De LaSalle University, Manila, Philippines.Pease, A.
2006.
Formal Representation of Concepts:The Suggested Upper Merged Ontology and Its Usein Linguistics.
Ontolinguistics.
How Ontological Sta-tus Shapes the Linguistic Coding of Concepts.
Schal-ley, A.C. and Zaefferer, D.
(ed.
), VorbereitungBerlin, New York.Pease, A.
2003.
The Sigma Ontology Development En-vironment.
Working Notes of the IJCAI-2003 Work-shop on Ontology and Distributed Systems, vol.
71 ofCEUR Workshop Proceeding series.Riedl, M. and Young, R.M.
2004.
An Intent-DrivenPlanner for Multi-Agent Story Generation.
Proceed-ings of the Third International Joint Conference onAutonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems, 186-193, Washington DC, USA, IEEE Computer Society.Smith, B.
1998.
The Basic Tools of Formal Ontology.Formal Ontology in Information Systems, Nicola Gu-arino (ed),  IOS Press, Washington.
Frontiers in Ar-tificial Intelligence and Applications, 19-28.Solis, C., Siy, J.T., Tabirao, E., and Ong, E. 2009.
Plan-ning Author and Character Goals for Story Genera-tion.
Proceedings of the NAACL Human LanguageTechnology 2009 Workshop on Computational Ap-proaches to Linguistic Creativity, 63-70, Boulder,Colorado, USA.Sutcliffe, G., Benzm?ller, C., Brown, C.E., and Theiss,F.
2009.
Progress in the Development of AutomatedTheorem Proving for Higher-order Logic.
AutomatedDeduction, 22nd International Conference on Auto-mated Deduction, Montreal, Canada, August 2-7,2009.
Proceedings of the Lecture Notes in AI, vol.5663, 116-130, 2009, Springer.Swartjes, I.
2006.
The Plot Thickens: Bringing Structureand Meaning into Automated Story Generation.
Mas-ter's Thesis, University of Twente, The Netherlands.Theune, M., Nijholt, A., Oinonen, K., and Uijlings J.2006.
Designing a Story Database for Use in Auto-matic Story Generation.
Proceedings 5th Interna-tional Conference Entertainment Computing,Cambridge, UK.
Lecturer Notes in ComputerScience, 4161:298-301, Heidelberg, Springer Berlin.Uijlings, J.R.R.
2006.
Designing a Virtual Environmentfor Story Generation.
MS Thesis, University of Ams-terdam, The Netherlands.Venour, C. and Reiter, E. 2008.
A Tutorial for Sim-plenlg.
http://www.csd.abdn.ac.uk/~ereiter/simplenlgWordNet.
2006.
WordNet: A Lexical Database for theEnglish Language.
Princeton University, New Jersey.48
