Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Analysis and Generation of Emotion in Text, pages 17?25,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsToward Plot Units: Automatic Affect State AnalysisAmit Goyal and Ellen Riloff and Hal Daume III and Nathan GilbertSchool of ComputingUniversity of UtahSalt Lake City, UT 84112{amitg,riloff,hal,ngilbert}@cs.utah.eduAbstractWe present a system called AESOP that au-tomatically produces affect states associatedwith characters in a story.
This research repre-sents a first step toward the automatic genera-tion of plot unit structures from text.
AESOPincorporates several existing sentiment analy-sis tools and lexicons to evaluate the effective-ness of current sentiment technology on thistask.
AESOP also includes two novel compo-nents: a method for acquiring patient polar-ity verbs, which impart negative affect on theirpatients, and affect projection rules to propa-gate affect tags from surrounding words ontothe characters in the story.
We evaluate AE-SOP on a small collection of fables.1 IntroductionIn the 1980s, plot units (Lehnert, 1981) were pro-posed as a knowledge structure for representing nar-rative stories and generating summaries.
Plot unitsare fundamentally different from the story represen-tations that preceded them because they focus on theemotional states and tensions between characters asthe driving force behind interesting plots and cohe-sive stories.
Plot units were used in narrative sum-marization studies, both in computer science andpsychology (Lehnert et al, 1981), but the compu-tational models of plot units relied on tremendousamounts of manual knowledge engineering.Given the recent swell of activity in automatedmethods for sentiment analysis, we embarked on aproject to see whether current techniques could auto-matically detect the affect states needed for plot unitanalysis.
Plot units are complex structures that in-clude affect states, causal links, and cross-characterlinks, and generating complete plot unit structures isbeyond the scope of this work.
As an initial step to-ward the long-term goal of automatically generatingplot units, we began by creating a system to automat-ically identify the affect states associated with char-acters.
An affect state represents the emotional stateof a character, based on their perspective of eventsin the story.
Plots units include three types of af-fect states: positive (+) states, negative (-) states, andmental (M) states that have neutral emotion (theseare often associated with plans and goals).Our system, called AESOP, pulls together a va-riety of existing technologies in sentiment analy-sis to automatically identify words and phrases thathave positive/negative polarity or that correspondto speech acts (for mental states).
However, weneeded to develop a method to automatically mapthese affect tags onto characters in the story.1 Toaddress this issue, we created affect projection rulesthat propagate affect tags from words and phrases tocharacters in the story via syntactic relations.During the course of our research, we came to ap-preciate that affect states, of the type required forplot units, can represent much more than just di-rect expressions of emotion.
A common phenom-ena are affect states that result from a character be-ing acted upon in a positive or negative way.
Forexample, ?the cat ate the mouse?
produces a pos-itive affect state for the cat and a negative affect1This is somewhat analogous to, but not exactly the same as,associating opinion words with their targets or topics (Kim andHovy, 2006; Stoyanov and Cardie, 2008).17The Father and His Sons(s1) A father had a family of sons who were perpetuallyquarreling among themselves.
(s2) When he failed toheal their disputes by his exhortations, he determined togive them a practical illustration of the evils of disunion;and for this purpose he one day told them to bring him abundle of sticks.
(s3) When they had done so, he placedthe faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,and ordered them to break it in pieces.
(s4) They triedwith all their strength, and were not able to do it.
(s5) Henext opened the faggot, took the sticks separately, one byone, and again put them into his sons?
hands, upon whichthey broke them easily.
(s6) He then addressed them inthese words: ?My sons, if you are of one mind, and uniteto assist each other, you will be as this faggot, uninjuredby all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are dividedamong yourselves, you will be broken as easily as thesesticks.?
(a) ?Father and Sons?
FableFather Sons(quarreling)a1(stop quarreling)a3(annoyed)a2(exhortations)a4(exhortations fail)a5mma(teach lesson)a6m(get sticks & break)a7m(get sticks & break)a8(cannot break sticks)a9a(cannot break sticks)a10a(bundle & break)a11(bundle & break)a12(break sticks)a13a(break sticks)a14amasharedrequestrequestsharedshareds2s2s2s2s2s2s4s5s5s1s2s4s5s5(lesson succeeds)a15s5(b) Plot Unit Analysis for ?Father and Sons?
Fablestate for the mouse because obtaining food is goodbut being eaten is bad.
This type of world knowl-edge is difficult to obtain, yet essential for plot unitanalysis.
In AESOP, we use corpus statistics to au-tomatically learn a set of negative patient polarityverbs which impart a negative polarity on their pa-tient (e.g., eaten, killed, injured, fired).
To acquirethese verbs, we queried a large corpus with patternsto identify verbs that frequently occur with agentswho stereotypically have evil intent.We evaulate our complete system on a set of AE-SOP?s fables.
In this paper, we also explain and cat-egorize different types of situations that can produceaffect states, several of which cannot be automati-cally recognized by existing sentiment analysis tech-nology.
We hope that one contribution of our workwill be to create a better awareness of, and apprecia-tion for, the different types of language understand-ing mechanisms that will ultimately be necessary forcomprehensive affect state analysis.2 Overview of Plot UnitsNarratives can often be understood in terms of theemotional reactions and affect states of the char-acters therein.
The plot unit formalism (Lehnert,1981) provides a representational mechanism for af-fect states and the relationships between them.
Plotunit structures can be used for tasks such as narrativesummarization and question answering.Plot unit structures consist of affect states for eachcharacter in a narrative, and links explaining the re-lationships between these affect states.
The affectstates themselves each have a type: (+) for positivestates, (-) for negative states, and (M) for mentalstates (with neutral affect).
Although affect statesare not events per se, events often trigger affectstates.
If an event affects multiple characters, it cantrigger multiple affect states, one for each character.Affect states are further connected by causal links,which explain how the narrative hangs together.These include motivations (m), actualizations (a),terminations (t) and equivalences (e).
Causal linksexist between affect states for the same character.Cross-character links explain how single events af-fect two characters.
For instance, if one characterrequests something of the other, this is an M-to-Mlink, since it spans a shared mental affect for bothcharacters.
Other speech acts can be represented asM to + (promise) or M to - (threat).To get a better feeling of the plot unit represen-tation, a short fable, ?The Father and His Sons,?
isshown in Figure 1(a) and our annotation of its plotunit structure is shown in Figure 1(b).
In this fa-ble, there are two characters (the ?Father?
and the?Sons?)
who go through a series of affect states, de-picted chronologically in the two columns.In this example, the first affect state is a negativestate for the sons, who are quarreling (a1).
This stateis shared by the father (via a cross-character link)who has a negative annoyance state (a2).
The fa-ther then decides that he wants to stop the sons fromquarreling, which is a mental event (a3).
The causallink from a2 to a3 with an m label indicates a ?mo-tivation.?
His first attempt is by exhortations (a4).18This produces an M (a3) linked to an M (a4) witha m (motivation) link, which represents subgoaling.The father?s overall goal is to stop the quarreling(a3) and in order to do so, he creates a subgoal ofexhorting the sons to stop (a4).
The exhortationsfail, which produces a negative state (a5) for the fa-ther.
The a causal link indicates an ?actualization?,representing the failure of the plan (a4).The failure of the father?s exhortations leads to anew subgoal: to teach the sons a lesson (a6).
The mlink from a5 to a6 is an example of ?enablement.
?At a high level, this subgoal has two parts, indicatedby the two gray regions (a7 ?
a10 and a11 ?
a14).The first gray region begins with a cross-characterlink (M to M), which indicates a request (in this case,to break a bundle of sticks).
The sons fail at this,which upsets them (a9) but pleases the father (a10).The second gray region depicts the second part ofthe father?s subgoal; he makes a second request (a11to a12) to separate the bundle and break the sticks,which the sons successfully do, making them happy(a13) and the father happy (a14).
This latter struc-ture (the second gray region) is an HONORED RE-QUEST plot unit.
At the end, the father?s plan suc-ceeds (a15) which is an actualization (a link) of hisgoal to teach the sons a lesson (a6).In this example, as well as the others that we an-notated in our gold standard, (see Section 5.1), weannotated conservatively.
In particular, in readingthe story, we may assume that the father?s origi-nal plan of stopping the son?s quarrelling also suc-ceeded.
However, this is not mentioned in the storyand therefore we chose not to represent it.
It is alsoimportant to note that plot unit representations canhave t (termination) and e (equivalence) links thatpoint backwards in time, but they do not occur inthe Father and Sons fable.3 Where Do Affect States Come From?We began this research with the hope that recent re-search in sentiment analysis would supply us witheffective tools to recognize affect states.
However,we soon realized that affect states, as required forplot unit analysis, go well beyond the notions of pos-itive/negative polarity and private states that havebeen studied in recent sentiment analysis work.
Inthis section, we explain the wide variety of situa-tions that can produce an affect state, based on ourobservations in working with fables.
Most likely, aneven wider variety of situations could produce affectstates in other text genres.3.1 Direct Expressions of EmotionPlot units can include affect states that correspond toexplicit expressions of positive/negative emotionalstates, as has been studied in the realm of sentimentanalysis.
For example, ?Max was disappointed?produces a negative affect state for Max, and ?Maxwas pleased?
produces a positive affect state forMax.
However, the affect must relate to an event thatoccurs in the story?s plot.
For example, a hypotheti-cal expression of emotion would not yield an affectstate (e.g., ?if the rain stops, she will be pleased?
).3.2 Situational Affect StatesPositive and negative affect states also frequentlyrepresent good and bad situational states that char-acters find themselves in.
These states do not rep-resent emotion, but indicate whether a situation isgood or bad for a character based on world knowl-edge.
For example, ?Wolf, who had a bone stuckin his throat, ...?
produces a negative affect statefor the wolf.
Similarly, ?The Old Woman recoveredher sight...?
produces a positive affect state.
Senti-ment analysis is not sufficient to generate these af-fect states.
Sometimes, however, a direct expressionof emotion will also be present (e.g., ?Wolf was un-happy because he had a bone stuck...?
), providingredundancy and multiple opportunities to recognizethe correct affect state for a character.Situational affect states are common and oftenmotivate plans and goals that are central to the plot.3.3 Plans and GoalsPlans and goals are another common reason foraffect states.
The existence of a plan or goal isusually represented as a mental state (M).
Plans andgoals can be difficult to detect automatically.
Astory may reveal that a character has a plan or goalin a variety of ways, such as:Direct expressions of plans/goals: a plan or goalmay be explicitly stated (e.g., ?the lion wanted tofind food?).
In this case, a mental state (M) should19be generated.Speech acts: a plan or goal may be revealedthrough a speech act between characters.
Forexample, ?the wolf asked an eagle to extract thebone?
is a directive speech act that indicates thewolf?s plan to resolve its negative state (having abone stuck).
This example illustrates how a negativestate (bone stuck) can motivate a mental state (plan).When a speech act involves multiple characters, itproduces multiple mental states.
For example, amental state should also be produced for the eagle,because it now has a plan to help the wolf (by virtueof being asked).Inferred plans/goals: plans and goals sometimesmust be inferred from actions.
For example, ?thelion hunted deer?
reveals the lion?s plan to obtainfood.
Similarly, the serpent spat poison into theman?s water?
implies that the serpent had a plan tokill the man.Plans and goals also produce positive/negative af-fect states when they succeed/fail.
For example, ifthe eagle successfully extracts the bone from thewolf?s throat, then both the wolf and the eagle willhave positive affect states, because both were suc-cessful in their respective goals.
A directive speechact between two characters coupled with positive af-fect states for both characters is a common plot unitstructure called an HONORED REQUEST, depictedby the second gray block shown in Fig.1(b).The affect state for a character is always withrespect to its view of the situation.
For example,consider: ?The owl besought a grasshopper tostop chirping.
The grasshopper refused to desist,and chirped louder and louder.?
Both the owl andthe grasshopper have M affect states representingthe request from the owl to the grasshopper (i.e.,the owl?s plan to stop the chirping is to ask thegrasshopper to knock it off).
The grasshopperrefuses the request, so a negative affect state isproduced for the owl, indicating that its plan failed.However, a positive affect state is produced forthe grasshopper, because its goal was to continuechirping which was accomplished by refusing therequest.
This scenario is also a common plot unitstructure called a DENIED REQUEST.3.4 Patient Role Affect StatesMany affect states come directly from events.
Inparticular, when a character is acted upon (the themeor patient of an event), a positive or negative affectstate often results for the character.
These affectstates reflect world knowledge about what situationsare good and bad.
For example:Negative patient roles: killed X, ate X, chased X,captured X, fired X, tortured XPositive patient roles: rescued X, fed X, adopted X,housed X, protected X, rewarded XFor example, ?a man captured a bear?
indicates anegative state for the bear.
Overall, this sentencewould generate a SUCCESS plot unit consisting ofan M state and a + state for the man (with an actual-ization a causal link between them representing theplan?s success) and a - state for the bear (as a cross-character link indicating that what was good for theman was bad for the bear).
A tremendous amount ofworld knowledge is needed to generate these statesfrom such a seemingly simple sentence.
Similarly,if a character is rescued, fed, or adopted, then a + af-fect state should be produced for the character basedon knowledge that these events are desirable.
Weare not aware of existing resources that can automat-ically identify affect polarity with respect to eventroles.
In Section 4.1.2, we explain how we automat-ically acquire Patient Polarity Verbs from a corpusto identify some of these affect states.4 AESOP: Automatic Affect State AnalysisWe created a system, called AESOP, to try to auto-matically identify the types of affect states that arerequired for plot unit analysis.
AESOP incorporatesexisting resources for sentiment analysis and speechact recognition, and includes two novel components:patient polarity verbs, which we automatically gen-erate using corpus statistics, and affect projectionrules, which automatically project and infer affectlabels via syntactic relations.AESOP produces affect states in a 3-step process.First, AESOP labels individual words and phraseswith an M, +, or - affect tag.
Second, it identi-fies all references to the two main characters of the20story.
Third, AESOP applies affect projection rulesto propagate affect states onto the characters, and insome cases, to infer new affect states.4.1 Step 1: Assigning Affect Tags to Words4.1.1 Sentiment Analysis ResourcesAESOP incorporates several existing sentimentanalysis resources to recognize affect states associ-ated with emotions and speech acts.?
OpinionFinder2 (Wilson et al, 2005) (Version1.4) is used to identify all three types of states.
Weuse the +/- labels assigned by its contextual polar-ity classifier (Wilson, 2005) to create +/- affect tags.The MPQASD tags produced by its Direct Subjectiveand Speech Event Identifier (Choi et al, 2006) areused as M affect tags.?
Subjectivity Lexicon3 (Wilson, 2005): The pos-itive/negative words in this list are assigned +/- af-fect tags, when they occur with the designated part-of-speech (POS).?
Semantic Orientation Lexicon4 (Takamura etal., 2005): The positive/negative words in this listare assigned +/- affect tags, when they occur withthe designated part-of-speech.?
A list of 228 speech act verbs compiled from(Wierzbicka, 1987)5, which are used for M states.4.1.2 Patient Polarity VerbsAs we discussed in Section 3.4, existing resourcesare not sufficient to identify affect states that arisefrom a character being acted upon.
Sentiment lexi-cons, for example, assign polarity to verbs irrespec-tive of their agents or patients.
To fill this gap,we tried to automatically acquire verbs that have astrong patient polarity (i.e., the patient will be in agood or bad state by virtue of being acted upon).We used corpus statistics to identify verbs thatfrequently occur with agents who typically haveevil (negative) or charitable (positive) intent.
First,we identified 40 words that are stereotypically evilagents, such as monster, villain, terrorist, and mur-derer, and 40 words that are stereotypically charita-ble agents, such as hero, angel, benefactor, and res-cuer.
Next, we searched the google Web 1T 5-gram2http://www.cs.pitt.edu/mpqa/opinionfinderrelease/3http://www.cs.pitt.edu/mpqa/lexiconrelease/collectinfo1.html4http://www.lr.pi.titech.ac.jp/?takamura/pndic en.html5http://openlibrary.org/b/OL2413134M/English speech act verbscorpus6 using patterns designed to identify verbsthat co-occur with these words as agents.
For eachagent term, we applied the pattern ?
*ed by [a,an,the]AGENT?
and extracted the list of matching verbs.7Next, we rank the extracted verbs by computingthe ratio between the frequency of the verb with anegative agent versus a positive agent.
If this ratiois > 1, then we save the verb as a negative patientpolarity verb (i.e., it imparts negative polarity to itspatient).
This process produced 408 negative patientpolarity verbs, most of which seemed clearly neg-ative for the patient.
Table 1 shows the top 20 ex-tracted verbs.
We also tried to identify positive pa-tient polarity verbs using a positive-to-negative ra-tio, but the extracted verbs were often neutral for thepatient, so we did not use them.scammed damaged disrupted rippedraided corrupted hindered crippledslammed chased undermined posseseddogged tainted grounded leviedpatched victimized posessed botheredTable 1: Top 20 negative patient polarity verbs4.2 Step 2: Identifying the CharactersThe problem of coreference resolution in fablesis somewhat different than for other genres, pri-marily because characters are often animals (e.g.,?he?=?owl?).
So we hand-crafted a simple rule-based coreference system.
For the sake of this task,we made two assumptions: (1) There are only twocharacters per fable, and (2) Both characters arementioned in the fable?s title.We then apply heuristics to determine number andgender for the characters based on word lists, Word-Net (Miller, 1990) and POS tags.
If no determina-tion of a character?s gender or number can be madefrom these resources, a process of elimination is em-ployed.
Given the two character assumption, if onecharacter is known to be male, but there are femalepronouns in the fable, then the other character is as-sumed to be female.
The same is done for numberagreement.
Finally, if there is only one character be-tween a pronoun and the beginning of a document,6http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2006T137The corpus is not POS tagged so there is no guarantee thesewill be verbs, but they usually are in this construction.21the pronoun is assumed to corefer with that char-acter.
The character then assumes the gender andnumber of that pronoun.
Lastly, WordNet is usedto obtain a small set of non-pronominal, non-string-match resolutions by exploiting hypernym relations,for instance, linking Peasant with the man.4.3 Step 3: Affect ProjectionOur goal is to produce affect states for each char-acter in the story.
Therefore every affect tag needsto be attributed to a character, or discarded.
Sinceplots typically revolve around actions, we used theverbs as the basis for projecting affect tags onto thecharacters.
In some cases, we also spawn new affecttags associated with mental states to indicate that anaction is likely the manifestation of a plan.We developed 6 types of affect projection rulesthat orchestrate how affect tags are assigned to thecharacters based on verb argument structure.
Weuse the Sundance shallow parsing toolkit (Riloff andPhillips, 2004) to generate a syntactic analysis ofeach sentence, including syntactic chunking, clausesegmentation, and active/passive voice recognition.We normalize the verb phrases (VPs) with respect tovoice (i.e., we transform the passive voice construc-tions into an active voice equivalent) to simplify ourrules.
We then make the assumption that the Subjectof the VP is its AGENT and the Direct Object of theVP is its PATIENT.8 The affect projection rules onlyproject affect states onto AGENTS and PATIENTSthat correspond to a character in the story.
The fivetypes of rules are described below.1.
AGENT VP : This case applies when the VPhas no PATIENT, or a PATIENT that is not a char-acter in the story, or the PATIENT corefers withthe AGENT.
All affect tags associated with the VPare projected onto the AGENT.
For example, ?Marylaughed (+)?
projects a positive affect state ontoMary.2.
VP PATIENT9: All affect tags associated withthe VP are projected onto the PATIENT, unless bothM and +/- tags exist, in which case only the +/- tagsare projected.
For example, ?loved (+) the cat?,projects a positive affect state onto the cat.8We are not actually doing thematic role recognition, so thiswill not always be correct, but it is a reasonable approximation.9Agent is missing or not a character.3.
AGENT VP PATIENT: This case applies whenthe AGENT and PATIENT refer to different char-acters.
All affect tags associated with the VP areprojected onto the PATIENT, unless both M and +/-tags exist, in which case only the +/- tags are pro-jected (as in Rule #2).
If the VP has an M tag, thenwe also project an M tag onto the AGENT (repre-senting a shared, cross-character mental state).
Ifthe VP has a +/- tag, then we project a + tag ontothe agent (as an inference that the AGENT accom-plished some action).4.
AGENT VERB1 to VERB2 PATIENT.
We di-vide this into two cases: (a) If the agent and patientrefer to the same character, then Rule #1 is applied(e.g., ?Bo decided to teach himself...?).
(b) If theagent and patient are different, we apply Rule #1 toVERB1 to agent and Rule #2 to VERB2.
If no af-fect tags are assigned to either verb, then we createan M affect state for the agent (assuming that the VPrepresents some sort of plan).5.
If a noun phrase refers to a character and in-cludes a modifying adjective with an affect tag, thenthe affect is mapped onto the character.
For exam-ple, ?the happy (+) fox?.Finally, if an adverb or adjectival phrase (e.g.,predicate adjective) has an affect tag, then that affecttag is mapped onto the preceding VP and the projec-tion rules above are applied.
For all of the rules, ifa clause contains a negation word, then we flip thepolarity of all words in that clause.
Our negation listcontains: no, not, never, fail, failed, fails, don?t, anddidn?t.5 Evaluation5.1 Data SetPlot unit analysis of ordinary text is enormouslycomplex ?
even the idea of manually creating goldstandard annotations seemed like a monumentaltask.
So we began our exploration with simpler andmore constrained texts that seemed particularly ap-propriate for plot unit analysis: fables.
Fables havetwo desirable attributes: (1) they have a small castof characters, and (2) they typically revolve arounda moral, which is exemplified by a short and conciseplot.
Even so, fables are challenging for NLP due toanthropomorphic characters, flowery language, andsometimes archaic vocabulary.22State M (66) + (52) - (39) All (157)System R P F R P F R P F R P FBsent baseline .65 .10 .17 .52 .08 .14 .74 .06 .11 .63 .08 .14Bclause baseline .48 .28 .35 .44 .22 .29 .69 .17 .27 .52 .22 .31All 4 resources (w/proj.
rules) .48 .43 .45 .23 .39 .29 .23 .41 .29 .34 .41 .37OpinionFinder .36 .42 .39 .00 .00 .00 .00 .00 .00 .15 .35 .21Subjectivity Lexicon .45 .43 .44 .23 .35 .28 .21 .44 .28 .32 .41 .36Semantic Dictionary .42 .45 .43 .00 .00 .00 .00 .00 .00 .18 .45 .26Semantic Orientation Lexicon .41 .43 .42 .17 .53 .26 .08 .43 .13 .25 .45 .32PPV Lexicon .41 .42 .41 .02 .17 .04 .21 .73 .33 .23 .44 .30AESOP (All 4 + PPV) .48 .40 .44 .25 .36 .30 .33 .46 .38 .37 .40 .38Table 2: Evaluation results for 2 baselines, 4 sentiment analysis resources with projection rules, and our PPV lexiconwith projection rules.
(The # in parentheses is the number of occurrences of that state in the gold standard).We collected 34 fables from an Aesop?s Fablesweb site10, choosing fables that have a true plot(some only contain quotes) and exactly two charac-ters.
We divided them into a development set of 11stories, a tuning set of 8 stories, and a test set of 15stories.
The Father and Sons story from Figure 1(a)is an example from our set.Creating a gold standard was itself a substantialundertaking.
Plot units are complex structures, andtraining non-experts to produce them did not seemfeasible in the short term.
So three of the authorsdiscussed and iteratively refined manual annotationsfor the development and tuning set stories until webecame comfortable that we had a common under-standing for the annotation task.
Then to create ourgold standard test set, two authors independentlycreated annotations for the test set, and a third au-thor adjudicated the differences.
The gold standardcontains complete plot unit annotations, includingaffect states, causal links, and cross-character links.For the experiments in this paper, however, only theaffect state annotations were used.5.2 BaselinesWe created two baselines to measure what wouldhappen if we use all 4 sentiment analysis resourceswithout any projection rules.
The first one (Bsent)operates at the sentence level.
It naively projects ev-ery affect tag that occurs in a sentence onto everycharacter in the same sentence.
The second base-line (Bclause) operates identically, but at the clauselevel.10http://www.pacificnet.net/?johnr/aesop/5.3 EvaluationAs our evaluation metrics we used recall (R), preci-sion (P), and F-measure (F).
We evaluate each sys-tem on individual affect states (+, - and M) as wellas across all affect states.
The evaluation is done atthe sentence level.
Meaning, if a system producesthe same affect state as present in the gold standardfor a sentence, we count it as a correct affect state.Our main evaluation also requires each affect stateto be associated with the correct character.Table 2 shows the coverage of our two baselinesystems as well as the four Sentiment AnalysisResources used with our projection rules.
We canmake several observations:?
As expected, the baselines achieve relatively highrecall, but low precision.?
Each of the sentiment analysis resources aloneis useful, and using them with the projection rulesleads to improved performance over the baselines(10 points in F score for M and 6 points overall).This shows that the projection rules are helpfulin identifying the characters associated with eachaffect state.?
The PPV Lexicon, alone, is quite good at cap-turing negative affect states.
Together with theprojection rules, this leads to good performance onidentifying mental states as well.To better assess our projection rules, we evaluatedthe systems both with respect to characters and with-out respect to characters.
In this evaluation, system-produced states are correct even if they are assignedto the wrong character.
Table 3 reveals several re-sults: (1) For the baseline: there is a large drop when23State M (66) + (52) - (39) All (157)System R P F R P F R P F R P FBclause w/o char .65 .37 .47 .50 .25 .33 .77 .19 .30 .63 .26 .37AESOP w/o char .55 .44 .49 .33 .47 .39 .36 .50 .42 .43 .46 .44Bclause w/ char .48 .28 .35 .44 .22 .29 .69 .17 .27 .52 .22 .31AESOP w/ char .48 .40 .44 .25 .36 .30 .33 .46 .38 .37 .40 .38Table 3: Evaluating affect states with and without respect to character.State M (66) + (52) - (39) All (157)System R P F R P F R P F R P FBclause PCoref .48 .28 .35 .44 .22 .29 .69 .17 .27 .52 .22 .31AESOP PCoref .48 .40 .44 .25 .36 .30 .33 .46 .38 .37 .40 .38Bclause ACoref .42 .45 .43 .25 .34 .29 .54 .24 .33 .39 .33 .36AESOP ACoref .41 .54 .47 .12 .40 .18 .26 .45 .33 .27 .49 .35Table 4: Final results of Bclause and AESOP systems with perfect and automated coreferenceevaluated with respect to the correct character.
(2)For AESOP: there is a smaller drop in both preci-sion and recall for M and -, suggesting that our pro-jection rules are doing well for these affect states.
(3) For AESOP: there is a large drop in both preci-sion and recall for +, suggesting that there is roomfor improvement of our projection rules for positiveaffect.Finally, we wish to understand the role that coref-erence plays.
Table 4 summarizes the results withperfect coreference and with automated coreference.AESOP is better than both baselines when we useperfect coreference (PCoref), which indicates thatthe affect projection rules are useful.
However,when we use automated coreference (ACoref), re-call goes down and precision goes up.
Recall goesdown because our automated coreference system isprecision oriented: it only says ?coreferent?
if it issure.The increase in precision when moving to auto-mated coreference is bizarre.
We suspect it is pri-marily due to the handling of quotations.
Our perfectcoreference system resolves first and second personpronouns in quotations, but the automated systemdoes not.
Thus, with automated coreference, we al-most never produce affect states from quotations.This is a double-edged sword: sometimes quotescontain important affect states, sometimes they donot.
For example, from the Father and Sons fable,?if you are divided among yourselves, you will bebroken as easily as these sticks.?
Automated coref-erence does not produce any character resolutionsand therefore AESOP produces no affect states.
Inthis case this is the right thing to do.
However, inanother well-known fable, a tortoise says to a hare:?although you be as swift as the wind, I have beatenyou in the race.?
Here, perfect coreference producesmultiple affect states, which are related to the plot:the hare recieves a negative affect state for havingbeen beaten in the race.6 ConclusionsAESOP demonstrates that sentiment analysis toolscan successfully recognize many affect states whencoupled with syntax-based projection rules to mapthe affect states onto characters.
We also showedthat negative patient polarity verbs can be harvestedfrom a corpus to identify characters that are in a neg-ative state due to an action.
However, performance isstill modest, revealing that much work remains to bedone.
In future work, new methods will be neededto represent affect states associated with plans/goals,events, and inferences.7 AcknowledgmentsThe authors thank the anonymous reviewers formany helpful comments.
This work was sup-ported in part by the Department of Homeland Se-curity Grant N0014-07-1-0152, the DARPA Ma-chine Reading program under contract FA8750-09-C-0172, and the NSF grant IIS-0712764.24ReferencesYejin Choi, Eric Breck, and Claire Cardie.
2006.
Jointextraction of entities and relations for opinion recogni-tion.
In EMNLP ?06: Proceedings of the 2006 Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing, pages 431?439, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.S.
Kim and E. Hovy.
2006.
Extracting Opinions, Opin-ion Holders, and Topics Expressed in Online NewsMedia Text.
In Proceedings of ACL/COLING Work-shop on Sentiment and Subjectivity in Text.W.
Lehnert, J.
Black, and B. Reiser.
1981.
Summariz-ing Narratives.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence.W.
G. Lehnert.
1981.
Plot Units and Narrative Summa-rization.
Cognitive Science, 5(4):293?331.G.
Miller.
1990.
Wordnet: An On-line Lexical Database.International Journal of Lexicography, 3(4).E.
Riloff and W. Phillips.
2004.
An Introduction to theSundance and AutoSlog Systems.
Technical ReportUUCS-04-015, School of Computing, University ofUtah.V.
Stoyanov and C. Cardie.
2008.
Topic Identificationfor Fine-Grained Opinion Analysis.
In Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2008).Hiroya Takamura, Takashi Inui, and Manabu Okumura.2005.
Extracting semantic orientations of words usingspin model.
In ACL ?05: Proceedings of the 43rd An-nual Meeting on Association for Computational Lin-guistics.A.
Wierzbicka.
1987.
English speech act verbs: a se-mantic dictionary.
Academic Press, Sydney, Orlando.T.
Wilson, P. Hoffmann, S. Somasundaran, J. Kessler,J.
Wiebe, Y. Choi, C. Cardie, E. Riloff, and S. Pat-wardhan.
2005.
OpinionFinder: A system for subjec-tivity analysis.
In Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005Interactive Demonstrations.Theresa Wilson.
2005.
Recognizing contextual polarityin phrase-level sentiment analysis.
In In Proceedingsof HLT-EMNLP.25
