Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Ontologies and Lexical Resources (Ontolex 2010), pages 77?86,Beijing, August 2010Ontolexical resources for feature based opinion mining :a case-studyAna?s CadilhacIRITToulouse Universitycadilhac@irit.frFarah BenamaraIRITToulouse Universitybenamara@irit.frNathalie Aussenac-GillesIRITToulouse Universityaussenac@irit.frAbstractOpinion mining is a growing researcharea both at the natural language proc-essing and the information retrievalcommunities.
Companies, politicians,as well as customers need powerfultools to track opinions, sentiments,judgments and beliefs that people mayexpress in blogs, reviews, audios andvideos data regarding a prod-uct/service/person/organisation/etc.
Thiswork describes our contribution to fea-ture based opinion mining where opin-ions expressed towards each feature ofan object or a product are extracted andsummarized.
The state of the art hasshown that the hierarchical organizationof features is a key step.
In this context,our goal is to study the role of a domainontology to structure and extract objectfeatures as well as to produce a compre-hensive summary.
This paper presentsthe developed system and the experi-ments we carried out on a case study:French restaurant reviews.
Our resultsshow that our approach outperformsstandard baselines.1 IntroductionOpinion mining is a growing research area bothin natural language processing and informationretrieval communities.
Companies, politicians,as well as customers need powerful tools totrack opinions, sentiments, judgments and be-liefs that people may express in blogs, reviews,audios and videos data regarding a prod-uct/service/person/organisation/etc.
The impor-tance of emotion-oriented computing in theWeb 2.0 has encouraged the creation of newsearch engines (like Tweetfeel(www.tweetfeel.com)) as well as the creation ofa new research group within the W3C, namelythe Emotion Markup Language, that aims todevelop a representation language of the emo-tional states of a user or the emotional states tobe simulated by a user interface.
In addition,most information retrieval evaluation campaigns(TREC, NTCI, etc.)
have already integrated anopinion track.Computational approaches to sentiment analysisfocus on extracting the affective content of atext from the detection of expressions of ?bag ofsentiment words?
at different levels of granular-ity.
These expressions are assigned a positive ora negative scalar value, representing a positive,a negative or neutral sentiment towards sometopic.
Roughly, research in this field can begrouped in four main categories (which are notexclusive):?
Development of linguistic and cognitivemodels of opinion/sentiment where alreadyexisting psycholinguistic theories of emo-tions are used to analyse how opinions arelexically expressed in texts (Wiebe et al2005; Read et al 2007; Asher et al 2009)?
Elaboration of linguistic resources wherecorpus based and dictionary based ap-proaches are used to automatically or semi-automatically extract opinion bearingterms/expressions as well as their sentimentorientation (Strapparava et al, 2004; Turneyand Littman, 2002)?
Opinion extraction/analysis at the document(Pang et al, 2002; Turney, 2002), at thesentence or at the clause level (Kim etal., 2006; Choi et al, 2005) where local77opinions are aggregated in order to computethe overall orientation of a docu-ment/sentence/clause.?
Feature based opinion mining (Hu and Liu,2004; Popescu and Etzioni, 2005; Careniniet al, 2005; Cheng and Xu, 2008) whereopinions expressed towards the features ofan object or a product are exacted andsummarized.The work described in this paper feats into thelast category.
The aim is not to compute thegeneral orientation of a document or a sentence,since a positive sentiment towards an objectdoes not imply a positive sentiment towards allthe aspects of this object, as in: I like this res-taurant even if the service is slow.
In featurebased opinion mining, a holder (the person whoposts the review) expresses a positive/negativeor neutral opinions towards a main topic (theobject or the product on which the holder ex-presses his opinions) and its associated features.As defined in (Hu and Liu, 2004), a feature canbe a ?part-of?
of a topic (such as the screen of acamera) or a property of the ?part-of?
of thetopic (such as the size of the screen).
The ex-pressed opinion can be explicit, as in ?thescreen of this camera is great?, or implicit, as in?the camera is heavy?, that expresses a negativeopinion towards the weight of the camera.
Samefeatures can also be expressed differently, forexample, ?drink?
and ?beverage?
refer to thesame restaurant feature.Having, for an object/product, the set of its as-sociated features F={f1,?fn}, research in fea-ture based opinion mining mostly focus onextracting the set F from reviews, and then, foreach feature fi of F, extract the set of its associ-ated opinion expressions OE={OE1,?OEj}.Once the set of couples (fi, OE) were extracted,a summary of the review is generally produced.During this process, the key questions are: howthe set F of features can be obtained?
How theyare linguistically expressed?
How they are re-lated to each other ?
Which knowledge repre-sentation model can be used to better organizeproduct features and to produce a comprehen-sive summary?To answer these questions, we propose in thispaper to study the role of an ontology in featurebased opinion mining.
More precisely, our aimis to study how a domain ontology can be usedto:?
structure features: we show that an ontol-ogy is more suitable than a simple hierarchywhere features are grouped using only the?is-a?
relation (Carenini et al, 2005; Blair-Goldensohn et al, 2008)?
extract explicit and implicit features fromtexts: we show how the lexical componentas well as the set of properties of the ontol-ogy can help to extract, for each feature, theset of the associated opinion expressions.?
produce a discourse based summary of thereview: we show how the ontology canguide the process of identifying the mostrelevant discourse relations that may holdbetween elementary discourse  units.The paper is organised as follows.
We give insection 2, a state of the art of the main ap-proaches used in the field as well as the motiva-tions of our work.
We present in the next sec-tion, our approach.
Finally, in section 4, we de-scribe the experiments we carried out on a casestudy: French restaurant reviews2 Feature based Opinion mining2.1 Related WorksOverall, two main families of work stand out:those that extract a simple list of features andthose that organize them into a hierarchy usingtaxonomies or ontologys.
The feature extractionprocess mainly concerns explicit features.Works without knowledge representationmodels : The pioneer work in feature basedopinion mining is probably the one of Hu andLiu (2004) that applies association rule miningalgorithm to discover product features (nounsand noun-phrases).
Heuristics (frequency ofoccurrence, proximity with opinion words,etc...) can eliminate irrelevant candidates.
Opin-ion expressions (only adjective phrases) whichare the closest to these features are extracted.
Asummary is then produced and displays, foreach feature, both positive and negative phrasesand the total number of these two categories.To improve the feature extraction phase, Pope-scu and Etzioni (2005) suggest in their system78OPINE, to extract only nominal groups whosefrequency is above a threshold determined ex-perimentally using the calculation of PMI(Point-wise Mutual Information) between eachof these nouns and meronymy expressions asso-ciated with the product.
No summary is pro-duced.The main limitation of these approaches is thatthere are a great many extracted features andthere is a lack of organization.
Thus, similarfeatures are not grouped together (for example,in restaurant domain, ?atmosphere?
and ?ambi-ence?
), and possible relationships between fea-tures of an object are not recognized (for exam-ple, ?coffee?
is a specific term for ?drink?).
Inaddition, polarity analysis (positive, negative orneutral) of the document is done by assigningthe dominant polarity of opinion words it con-tains (usually adjectives), regardless of polari-ties individually associated to each feature.Works using feature taxonomies.
Followingworks have a different approach: they do notlook for a ?basic list?
of features but rather a listhierarchically organized through the use of tax-onomies.
We recall that a taxonomy is a list ofterms organized hierarchically through speciali-zation relationship type ?is a sort of?.Carenini et al (2005) use predefined taxono-mies and semantic similarity measures to auto-matically extract classic features of a productand calculate how close to predefined conceptsin the taxonomy they are.
This is reviewed bythe user in order to insert missing concepts inthe right place while avoiding duplication.
Thesteps of identifying opinions and their polarityand the production of a summary are not de-tailed.
This method was evaluated on the prod-uct review corpus of Hu and Liu (2004) andresulted in a significant reduction in the numberof extracted features.
However, this method isvery dependent on the effectiveness of similar-ity measures used.In their system PULSE, Gamon et al (2005)analyze a large amount of text contained in adatabase.
A taxonomy, including brands andmodels of cars, is automatically extracted fromthe database.
Coupled with a classificationtechnique, sentences corresponding to each leafof the taxonomy are extracted.
At the end of theprocess, a summary which can be more or lessdetailed is produced.The system described in (Blair-Goldensohn etal., 2008) extracts information about services,aggregates the sentiments expressed on everyaspect and produces a summary.
The automaticfeature extraction combines a dynamic method,where the different aspects of services are themost common nouns, and a static method,where a taxonomy grouping the concepts con-sidered to be the most relevant by the user isused to manually annotate sentences.
The re-sults also showed that the use of a hierarchysignificantly improves the quality of extractedfeatures.Works using ontologys.
These works aim atorganizing features using a more elaboratedmodel of representation: an ontology Unliketaxonomy, ontology is not restricted to a hierar-chical relationship between concepts, but candescribe other types of paradigmatic relationssuch as synonymy, or more complex relation-ships such as composition relationship or spacerelationship.Overall, extracted features correspond exclu-sively to terms contained in the ontology.
Thefeature extraction phase is guided by a domainontology, built manually (Zhao and Li, 2009),or semi-automatically (Feiguina, 2006; Chengand Xu, 2008), which is then enriched by anautomatic process of extraction / clustering ofterms which corresponds to new feature identi-fication.To extract terms, Feiguina (2006) uses patternextraction coupled to a terminology extractortrained over a set of features related to a productand identified manually in a few reviews.
Samefeatures are grouped together using semanticsimilarity measures.
The system OMINE(Cheng and Xu, 2008) proposes a mechanismfor ontology enrichment using a domain glos-sary which includes specific terms such aswords of jargon, abbreviations and acronyms.Zhao and Li (2009) add to their ontology con-cepts using a corpus based method: sentencescontaining a combination of conjunction wordand already recognized concept are extracted.This process is repeated iteratively until no newconcepts are found.Ontologys have also been used to support polar-ity mining.
For example, (Chaovalit and Zhou,2008) manually built an ontology for movie re-views and incorporated it into the polarity clas-79sification task which significantly improve per-formance over standard baseline.2.2 Towards an ontology based opinionminingMost of the researchers actually argue thatthe use of a hierarchy of features improves theperformance of feature based opinion miningsystems.
However, works that actually use adomain ontology (cf.
last section) exploit theontology as a taxonomy using only the is-a rela-tion between concepts.
They do not really useall data stored in an ontology, such as the lexicalcomponents and other types of relations.
In ad-dition, in our knowledge, no work has investi-gated the use of an ontology to produce com-prehensive summaries.We think there is still room for improvementin the field of feature based sentiment analysis.To get an accurate appraisal of opinion in texts,it is important for NLP systems to go beyondexplicit features and to propose a fine-grainedanalysis of opinions expressed towards eachfeature.
Our intuition is that the full use of on-tology would have several advantages in thedomain of opinion mining to:Structure features: ontologys are tools thatprovide a lot of semantic information.
They helpto define concepts, relationships and entitiesthat describe a domain with unlimited numberof terms.
This set of terms can be a significantand valuable lexical resource for extracting ex-plicit and implicit features.
For example, in thefollowing restaurant review: cold and not tastythe negative opinion not tasty is ambiguoussince it is not associated to any lexicalised fea-ture.
However, if the term cold is stored in theontology as a lexical realization of the conceptquality of the cuisine, the opinion not tasty canbe easily associated to the feature cuisine of therestaurant (note that the conjunction and playsan important role in the desambiguisation proc-ess).
We discuss this point at the last section ofthe paper.Extract features: ontologys provide structurefor these features through their concept hierar-chy but also their ability to define many rela-tions linking these concepts.
This is also a valu-able resource for structuring the knowledge ob-tained during feature extraction task.
In addi-tion, the relations between concepts and lexicalinformation can be used to extract implicit fea-tures.
For example, if the concept customer islinked to the concept restaurant by the relationto eat in,  a positive opinion towards the restau-rant can be extracted from the review: we eatwell.
Similarly, if the concept restaurant islinked to the concept landscape with the rela-tion to view, a positive opinion can be extractedtowards the look out of the restaurant from thefollowing review:  very good restaurant whereyou can savour excellent Gratin Dauphinoisand admire the most beautiful peak of the Pyr?-n?esProduce summaries.
Finally, we also believethat ontologys can play a fundamental role toproduce well organised summary and discursiverepresentation of the review.
We further detailthis point at the last section of the paper.3 Our approachOur feature based opinion mining system needsthree basic components: a lexical resource L ofopinion expressions, a lexical ontology O whereeach concept and each property is associated toa set of labels that correspond to their linguisticrealizations and a review R.Following the idea described in (Asher et al2009), a review R is composed of a set of ele-mentary discourse units (EDU).
Using the dis-course theory SDRT (Asher and Lascarides2003) as our formal framework, an EDU is aclause containing at least one elementary opin-ion unit (EOU) or a sequence of clauses thattogether bear a rhetorical relation to a segmentexpressing an opinion.
An EOU is an explicitopinion expression composed of a noun, an ad-jective or a verb with its possible modifiers (ac-tually negation and adverb) as described in ourlexicon L.We have segmented conjoined NPs or APsinto separate clauses?for instance, the film isbeautiful and powerful is taken to express twosegments: the film is beautiful and the film ispowerful.
Segments are then connected to eachother using a small subset of ?veridical?
dis-course relations, namely:?
Contrast (a,b), implies that a and b are bothtrue but there is some defeasible implication80of one that is contradicted by the other.
Pos-sible markers can be although, but.?
Result(a,b) indicated by markers like so, asa result, indicates that the EDU b  is a con-sequence or result of the EDU a.?
Continuation(a,b ) corresponds to a seriesof speeches in which there are no time con-straints and where segments form part of alarger thematic.
For example, "The averagelife expectancy in France is 81 years.
InAndorra, it reaches over 83 years.
In Swazi-land it does not exceed 85 years."?
Elaboration(a,b) describes global informa-tion that was stated previously with morespecific information.
For example, "Yester-day, I spent a wonderful day.
I lounged inthe sun all morning.
I ate in a nice little res-taurant.
Then at night,  I met my friend Emi-ly.
"In a review R, an opinion holder h commentson a subset S of the features of an ob-ject/product using some opinion expressions.Each feature corresponds to the set of linguisticrealizations of a concept or a property of thedomain ontology O.
For example, in the follow-ing product review, EDUs are between squarebrackets, EOUs are between embraces whereasobject features are underlined.
There is acontrast relation between the EDUb and EDUcwhich makes up the opinion expressed withinthe EDUd.
[I bought the product yesterday]a.
[Even if theproduct is {excellent}]b, [the design and the sizeare  {very basic}]c, [which is {disappointing}in this brand]c.The figure below gives an overview of our sys-tem.
First, each review R is parsed using theFrench syntactic parser Cordial 1 , which pro-vides, for each sentence, its POS tagging andthe set of dependency relations.
The review isthen segmented in EDUs using the discourseparser described in (Afantenos and al, 2010).For each EDU, the system :1.
Extracts EOUs using a rule based approach2.
Extracts features that correspond to theprocess of term extraction using the domainontology1http://www.synapse-fr.com/Cordial_Analyseur/Figure 1 Overview of our system.3.
Associates, for each feature within an EDU,the set of opinion expressions4.
Produces a discourse based summary.Since the summarization module is not doneyet, we detail below the three first steps.3.1 Extracting Elementary Opinion UnitsWe recall that an EOU is the smallest opinionunit within an EDU.
It is composed of one andonly one opinion word (a noun, an adjective or averb) possibly associated with some modifierslike negation words and adverbs.
For example,?really not good?
is an EOU.
An EOU can alsobe simply an adverb as in too spicy.
Adverbs arealso used to update our opinion lexicon, as intoo chic where the opinion word chic is added.Finally, we also extract expressions of recom-mendation, such as : go to this restaurant, youwill not regret it, which are very frequent inreviews.3.2 Extracting featuresThis step aims at extracting for the review allthe labels of the ontology.
Since each conceptand its associated lexical realizations corre-spond to explicit features, we simply project thelexical component of the ontology in the reviewin order to get, for each EDU, the set of featuresF.
Of course, since our lexical ontology does not81cover all the linguistic realizations of conceptsand properties in a given domain, many terms inthe review can be missed.
We show, in the nextsection, that linking features to opinion expres-sions can partially solve this problem.To extract implicit features, ontology proper-ties are used.
We recall that these propertiesdefine relations between concepts of the ontol-ogy.
For example, the property ?look at?
links?customer?
and ?design?
concepts.3.3 Associating opinions expressions toextracted featuresIn this step, the extracted opinion expressions instep 1 have to be linked to the features extractedin step 2 i.e.
we have to associate to each EDUithe set of couples (fi, OEi).
During this step, wedistinguish the following cases :Case 1.
Known features and known opinionwords.
For example, if the lexicon contains thewords really, good and excellent and the ontol-ogy contains the terms eating place and food  asa linguistic realization of the concepts restau-rant and food, then this step allows the extrac-tion from the EDU ?really good restaurant withexcellent food??
the couples (restaurant, reallygood) and (food, excellent).
This example isquite simple but in many cases, features andopinion words are not close to each other whichmake the link difficult to find.
Actually, oursystem deals with conjunctions (including co-mas) as in: ?I recommend pizzas and icecreams?, ?very good restaurant but very expen-sive?Case 2.
Known features and unknown opinionexpressions, as in the EDU ?acceptable prices?where the opinion word acceptable has not beenextracted in step 1 (cf.
section 3.1).
In this case,the opinion lexicon can be automatically up-dated with the retrieved opinion word.Case 3.
Unknown features and known opinionexpressions, as in the EDU ?old fashion restau-rant?
where the features fashion has not beenextracted in step 2 (cf.
section 3.2).
In this case,the domain ontology can be updated by adding anew label to an existing concept or property orby adding a new concept or a new property inthe right place to the ontology.
However, since auser may express an opinion on different objectswithin a review, this step has to be done care-fully.
To avoid errors, we propose to manuallyupdate the ontology.Case 4.
Opinion expressions alone, as in theEDU ?It?s slow, cold and not good?.
This kindof EDU expresses an implicit feature.
In thiscase, we use the ontology properties in order toretrieve the associated concept in the ontology.For example, in the sentence ?we eat very well?,the property ?eat?
of the ontology which links?customer?
and ?food?
will allow the system todetermine that ?very well?
refers to ?food?.Case 5.
Features alone, as in the EDU: ?Nicesurrounding on sunny days with terrace?, evenif the feature ?terrace?
is not associated to anyopinion word, it is important to extract this in-formation because it gives a positive opiniontowards the restaurant.
An EDU with featuresalone can also be an indicator of the presence ofan implicit opinion expression towards the fea-ture as in this restaurant is a nest of touristsActually, our system deals with all these casesexcept the last one.4 Case study : mining restaurant re-viewsIn this section, we present the experiments wecarried out on a case study: French restaurantreviews.4.1 CorpusFor our experiments, we use a corpus of 58restaurant reviews (40 positive reviews and 18negatives reviews, for a total of 4000 words)extracted from the web site Qype2.
Each reviewcontains around 70 words and is composed offree comments on restaurants (but also on otherobjects like pubs, cinemas, etc.)
with a lot oftypos and syntactic errors.
Each review appearsin the web site with additional information suchas the date of the review, the user name of theholder and a global rate from 1 (bad review) to5 (very good review).
In this experiment, weonly use the textual comments posted.
Figure 2shows an example of a review form our corpus.2http://www.qype.fr82Figure 2.
Example of a restaurant review4.2 OntologySince our aim is to study the role of a domainontology to feature based opinion mining, wechoose to reuse an existing ontology.
However,for the restaurant domain, we do not find anypublic available ontology for French.
We thususe a pre-existent ontology 3  for English as abasis coupled with additional information thatwe gather from several web sites 4 .
We firsttranslate the existing ontology to French andthen adapt it to our application by manually re-organize, add and delete concepts in order todescribe important restaurant features.
Dispari-ties between our ontology and the one we foundin the web mainly come from cultural consid-erations.
For example, we do not found in theEnglish ontology concepts like terrace.Our domain ontology has been implementedunder Prot?g?5 and actually contains 239 con-cepts (from which we have 14 concepts directlyrelated to the superclass owl:think), 36 objectproperties and 703 labels (646 labels for con-cepts and 57 labels for properties).
The left partof figure 3 shows an extract of our restaurantdomain ontology.4.3 Opinion LexiconOur lexicon contains a list of opinion termswhere each lexical entry is of the form:[POS, opinion category, polarity, strength]where POS is the part of speech tagging of theterm, opinion category can be a judgment, asentiment or an advice (see (Asher et al 2009)for a detailed description of these categories),polarity and strength corresponds respectivelyto the opinion orientation (positive, negativeand neutral) and the opinion strength (a scorebetween 0 and 2).
For example, we have thefollowing entry for the term good: [Adj, judg-ment, +, 1].3http://gaia.fdi.ucm.es/ontologies/restaurant.owl4http://www.kelrestaurant.com/dept/31/ andhttp://www.resto.fr/default.cfm5http://protege.stanford.edu/The lexicon actually contains 222 adjectives,152 nouns, 157 verbs.
It is automatically builtfollowing the algorithm described in (Chardon,2010).
We then add manually to this lexicon 98adverbs and 15 expressions of negation.Figure 3.
Extract of the restaurant domainontology : Left - hierarchy of concepts andlabels of ?decoration?
concept.
Right ?
in-formation about a particular object property.4.4 ExperimentsWe conduct three types of experiment: theevaluation of the extraction of elementary opin-ion units (cf.
section 3.1), the evaluation of thefeatures extraction step (cf.
section 3.2) and fi-nally, the evaluation of the link between the re-trieved opinion expressions and the retrievedobject features (cf.
section 3.3).These experiments are carried out usingGATE 6  toolkit.
To evaluate our system, wecreate a gold standard by manually annotate inthe corpus implicit and explicit elementaryopinion units, implicit and explicit object fea-tures as well as for each opinion expression itsassociated feature.Evaluation of the EOU extraction step.The table below shows our results.
Our systemmisses some EOU for two main reasons.
Thefirst one is due to missed opinion words in thelexicon and to implicit opinion expressions,such as breathtaking, since our extraction rulesdo not manage these cases (note that implicitopinion detection is still an open research prob-lem in opinion mining).6http://gate.ac.uk/83The second reason is the errors that come fromthe syntactic parser mainly because of typos anddependency link errors.
Concerning precision,false positives are mainly due to some opinionwords that are in our lexicon but they do notexpress opinions in the restaurant domain.
Inaddition, some of our extraction rules, espe-cially those that extract expression of recom-mendations, do not perform very well whichimply a loss of precision.Precision 0,7486Recall 0,8535F-measure 0,7976Table 1.
Evaluation of EOU extractionEvaluation of the features extraction step.Since the corpus is in the restaurant domain, theprecision of this task is very good because mostof the extracted features are relevant.
However,recall is not as good as precision because the setof ontology labels do not totally cover the termsof the corpus.
Another limitation of our systemis that we do not take into account the caseswhere a term can be a linguistic realization ofmany concepts (ex.
caf?
can be a drink or aplace to drink).Figure 4 shows an example of the result we ob-tain for this step.Figure 4.
Result of EOU (blue) andontological term (pink) extractionEvaluation of the link between EOU and fea-tures.The figure below shows our result on a sample.In this example, the system is able to extractopinion expressions which do not contain wordspresent in the lexicon.
It is the case with ?sympa(nice)?
which has been correctly associated to?resto (restaurant)?
and ?deco (interior de-sign)?
even if the word nice was not in the lexi-con.In order to evaluate the added value of using anontology to feature based opinion mining, wecompare our system to the well known ap-proaches of Hu and Liu and Popescu and Etzi-oni (cf.
section 2.1) that do not use any knowl-edge representation.
We have also comparedour approach to those that use taxonomies ofconcepts by deleting the properties of our do-main ontology.
The results are shown in table 2.Figure 5.
Result of linking EOU to extractedfeaturesPrecision Recall  F-measureOur sys-tem0,7692 0,7733  0,7712Hu andLiu0,67370,7653 0,7166Popescuand al0,7328   0,7387 0,7357Taxon-omy0,7717   0,7573 0,7644Table 2.
Evaluation of our system and itscomparison to existing approachesIn the Hu and Liu approach, features are nomi-nal groups.
We first extract all frequent featuresfrom our corpus that appear in more than 1% ofthe sentences.
Then we extract EOU from thosesentences (note that contrary to Hu and Liu, wedo not extract only adjectives, but also nouns,verbs and adverbs).
Non frequent features arefinally removed as described in (Hu and Liu,2004).
In order to improve the extraction ofrelevant features, we extract features that have agood point mutual information value with theword restaurant, as described in (Popescu andEtzioni, 2005).
The precision of our system isbetter compared to the approach of Hu and Liuthat extracts too many irrelevant features (suchas any doubt, whole word).
Our system is alsobetter compared to the PMI approach even if itperforms better than Hu and Liu?s approach.Recall is also better because our system can ex-tract implicit features such as well eating,  lot ofnoise,  thanks to the use of ontology properties.Finally, when using only taxonomy of conceptsinstead of the ontology, we observe that the F-measure is slightly better because actually fea-84tures related to object properties represent only1,6% of feature cases in our corpus.
Using, theontology, our approach is able to extract fromsentences like "we eat good and healthy" thecouples (eat, good) and (eat, healthy) and thento link the opinion expressions to the conceptdish whereas when using only the taxonomy,these opinion expressions are related to any fea-ture.5 Conclusion and prospects5.1 Contribution of our systemOur method is promising because the use of theontology allows to improve the feature extrac-tion and the association between an opinion ex-pressions and object features.
On the one hand,the ontology is useful thanks to its concept listwhich brings a lot of semantic data in the sys-tem.
Using concept labels the ontology allowsto recognize terms which refer to the same con-cepts and brings some hierarchy between theseconcepts.
On the other hand, the ontology isuseful thanks to its list of properties betweenconcepts which allows recognizing some opin-ions expressed about implicit features.5.2 ProspectsOpinion lexicon improvement.The opinion extraction we achieved is naivebecause we use a simple opinion word lexiconwhich is not perfectly adapted to the domain.
Toimprove this part of the treatment, it would beinteresting to use opinion ontology.
As illus-trated in section 2.2, constructing a domain on-tology for the purpose of opinion mining posesseveral interesting questions in term of knowl-edge representation, such as: what are the fron-tiers between knowledge, where concepts aredomain dependent, and opinion, where expres-sions can be at the same time dependent (theterm long can be positive for a battery life butnegative if it refers to a the service of a restau-rant) and independent (the term good is posi-tive) from a domain.
Our intuition is that thetwo levels have to be separated as possible.Natural Language processing (NLP) rulesimprovement.Our system is limited by some current NLPproblems.
For example, the system does nottreat the anaphora.
For example, in the sentence?Pizzas are great.
They are tasty, original andgenerous?, it does not recognize that the threelast adjectives refer to ?pizzas?.
There is alsothe problem of conditional proposition.
For ex-ample, in the sentence ?affordable prices if youhave a fat wallet?, the system is not able to de-termine that ?affordable prices?
is subject to acondition.Ontology and lexicon enrichment.Thanks to the ability to link opinion expressionand ontological term extractions, our system isable to extract some missing opinion words andlabels of the ontology.
We think it could be in-teresting to implement a module which allowsthe user to easily enrich opinion word lexiconand ontology.
Furthermore, it will be interestingto evaluate the benefit of this method in bothopinion mining and ontological domains.Towards a discourse based summary.The last step of the system is to produce a sum-mary of the review that presents to the user allthe opinion expressions associated to the maintopic and all its features.
This summary does notpretend to aggregate opinions for each featureor for the global topic.
Instead, the aim is to or-ganize the opinions of several reviews aboutone restaurant in order to allow the user tochoose what feature is important or not for him.In addition to this kind of summarization, wewant to investigate how the domain ontologycan be used to guide the process of identifyingthe most relevant discourse relations betweenelementary discourse units (EDU).
Actually,the automatic identification of discourse rela-tions that hold between EDUs is still an openresearch problem.
Our idea is that there is con-tinuation relation between EDU that containterms that refer to concepts which are at thesame level of the ontology hierarchy, and thereis an elaboration relation when EDU containsmore specific concepts than those of the previ-ous clause.ReferencesAfantenos Stergos, Denis Pascal, Muller Philippe,Danlos Laurence.
Learning Recursive Segmentsfor Discourse Parsing.
LREC 201085Asher, Nicholas, Farah Benamara, and Yvette Y.Mathieu.
2009.
Appraisal of Opinion Expressionsin Discourse.
Lingvistic?
Investigationes, JohnBenjamins Publishing Company, Amsterdam,Vol.
32:2.Asher Nicholas and Lascarides Alex.
Logics of Con-versation.
Cambridge University Press, 2003BlairGoldensohn, Sasha, Kerry Hannan, RyanMcDonald, Tyler Neylon, George A. Reis, andJeff Reynar.
2008.
Building a Sentiment Summar-izer for Local Service Reviews.
WWW2008Workshop : Natural Language Processing Chal-lenges in the Information Explosion Era (NLPIX2008).Carenini, Giuseppe, Raymond T. Ng, and Ed Zwart.2005.
Extracting Knowledge from EvaluativeText.
In Proceedings of the 3rd international con-ference on Knowledge captur.Chardon Baptiste.
Cat?gorisation automatique d?adjectifsd?opinion ?
partir d?une ressource linguistique g?n?ri-que.
In proceedings of RECITAL 2010, Montreal, Ca-nadaPimwadee Chaovalit, Lina Zhou: Movie ReviewMining: a Comparison between Supervised andUnsupervised Classification Approaches.
HICSS2005Cheng, Xiwen, and Feiyu Xu.
2008.
Fine-grainedOpinion Topic and Polarity Identification.
In Pro-ceedings of the Sixth International Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC' 08), Marrakech,Morocco.Feiguina, Olga.
2006.
R?sum?
automatique descommentaires de Consommateurs.
M?moire pr?-sent?
?
la Facult?
des ?tudes sup?rieures en vue del?obtention du grade de M.Sc.
en informatique,D?partement d?informatique et de recherche op?-rationnelle, Universit?
de Montr?al.Gamon, Michael, Anthony Aue, Simon Corston-Oliver, and Eric Ringger.
2005.
Pulse: MiningCustomer Opinions from Free Text.
In Proceed-ings of International symposium on intelligentdata analysis N?6, Madrid.Hu, Minqing, and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining and Sum-marizing Customer Reviews.
In Proceedings of the10th ACM SIGKDD international conference onKnowledge discovery and data mining.Kim, Soo-Min, and Eduard Hovy.
2006.
ExtractingOpinions, Opinion Holders, and Topics Expressedin Online News Media Text.
In Proceedings ofACL/COLING Workshop on Sentiment and Sub-jectivity in Text, Sydney, Australia.Pang, Bo, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyana-than.
2002.
Thumbs up?
Sentiment Classificationusing Machine Learning Techniques.
Proceedingsof EMNLP 2002.Popescu, Ana-Maria, and Oren Etzioni.
2005.
Ex-tracting Product Features and Opinions from Re-views.
In Proceedings of the conference on Hu-man Language Technology and Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing.Read, Jonathon,  David Hope, and John Carroll.2007.
Annotating Expressions of Appraisal inEnglish.
The Linguistic Annotation Workshop,ACL 2007.Strapparava, Carlo, and Alessandro Valitutti.
2004.WordNet-Affect: an Affective Extension of Word-Net.
Proceedings of LREC 04.Turney, Peter D. 2002.
Thumbs Up or ThumbsDown?
Semantic Orientation Applied to Unsuper-vised Classification of Reviews.
Proceedings of2006 International Conference on Intelligent UserInterfaces (IUI06).Turney, Peter D., and Michael L. Littman.
2002.Unsupervised Learning of Semantic Orientationfrom a Hundred-Billion-Word Corpus.
NationalResearch Council, Institute for Information Tech-nology, Technical Report ERB-1094.
(NRC#44929)Wiebe, Janyce, Theresa Wilson, and Claire Cardie.2005.
Annotating Expressions of Opinions andEmotions in Language.
Language Resources andEvaluation 1(2).Zhao, Lili, and Chunping Li.
2009.
Ontology BasedOpinion Mining for Movie Reviews.
In Proceed-ings of the 3rd International Conference onKnowledge Science, Engineering and Manage-ment.86
