Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Writing, pages 7?14,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsScientific Authoring Support: A Tool to Navigate in Typed Citation GraphsUlrich Scha?ferLanguage Technology LabGerman Research Center forArtificial Intelligence (DFKI)D-66123 Saarbru?cken, Germanyulrich.schaefer@dfki.deUwe KasterkaComputer Science DepartmentSaarland UniversityCampusD-66123 Saarbru?cken, Germanyuwe.kasterka@dfki.deAbstractScientific authors urgently need help in man-aging the fast increasing number of publica-tions.
We describe and demonstrate a toolthat supports authors in browsing graphicallythrough electronically available publications,thus allowing them to quickly adapt to newdomains and publish faster.
Navigation is as-sisted by means of typed citation graphs, i.e.we use methods and resources from compu-tational linguistics to compute the kind of ci-tation that is made from one paper to another(refutation, use, confirmation etc.).
To verifythe computed citation type, the user can in-spect the highlighted citation sentence in theoriginal PDF document.
While our classi-fication methods used to generate a realistictest data set are relatively simple and couldbe combined with other proposed approaches,we put a strong focus on usability and quicknavigation in the potentially huge graphs.
Inthe outlook, we argue that our tool could bemade part of a community approach to over-come the sparseness and correctness dilemmain citation classification.1 Introduction and MotivationAccording to different studies, the number of scien-tific works is doubled every 5-10 years.
Importantissues to be addressed by the scientific communityare finding relevant information and avoiding redun-dancy and duplication of work.
The organizationand preservation of scientific knowledge in scientificpublications, vulgo text documents, thwarts these ef-forts.
From a viewpoint of a computer scientist, sci-entific papers are just ?unstructured information?.One specific, but very important aspect of the con-tent of scientific papers is their relation to previouswork and, once published, their impact to subse-quent or derived research.
While it is still hard ifnot impossible to capture and formalize the semanticcontent of a scientific publication automatically, atleast citation properties and derived scientific impactcan be and usually are measured automatically onthe basis of simple citation graphs.
In other words,these graphs can be used to describe I/O behavior ofpublications in a very simple way.However, just counting citations is a very coarseapproach and does not tell much about the reasonsfor citing one?s work in a specific situation.
More-over, once such measure is formalized and standard-ized e.g.
for science evaluation, it can be exploitedto tune up statistics.
Since the first proposal of theScience Citation Index (Garfield, 1955), it has alsoprovoked criticism.In the bibliometrics and computational linguisticsliterature, many proposals are available on how ci-tations could be further classified by careful analy-sis of citation sentences and context (Garfield, 1965;Garzone, 1996; Mercer and Di Marco, 2004; Teufelet al, 2006; Bornmann and Daniel, 2008).The number of different classes proposed variesfrom 3 to 35.
Different authors try to identify di-mensions and mutually exclusive classes, but themore classes a schema contains, the more difficultbecomes the automatic classification.The focus of our paper is to combine automaticclassification approaches with a tool that supportsscientists in graphically navigating through typed ci-tation graphs (TCG).
Such TCGs can be generated7by augmenting a simple citation graph with informa-tion synonymously called citation function (Teufelet al, 2006), citation relation (Mercer and Di Marco,2004) or citation sentiment, forming the labels of thegraph?s edges.
In the following, we use the moreneutral and general term citation type.The idea is to help scientists, especially those notso familiar with an area, understanding the relationsbetween publications and quickly get an overview ofthe field.
Moreover, the goal is to embed this tool ina larger framework for scientists that also supportssemantic search assisted by domain ontologies andfurther tools for authoring support (Scha?fer et al,2008).Our paper is structured as follows.
In Section 2,we describe how we automatically compute thetyped citation graph from the raw text content of ascientific paper corpus to generate realistic data fortesting the visualization and navigation tool.
Sec-tion 3 contains an evaluation of the quality of theextracted unlabeled graphs and of the citation classi-fication step.
We then describe in Section 4 the ideasof efficient and at the same time well-arranged visu-alization and navigation in the typed citation graph.We compare with related work in Section 5.
Finally,we conclude and give an outlook to future work inSection 6.2 Data Preparation and AutomaticCitation Type ClassificationOur corpus is based on 6300 electronically-availablepapers, a subset (published 2002-2008) of the ACLAnthology (Bird et al, 2008), a comprehensive col-lection of scientific conference and workshop papersin the area of computational linguistics and languagetechnology.The overall workflow of the employed tools anddata is shown in Fig.
1.We ran the open source tool ParsCit (Councill etal., 2008) to extract references lists and correspond-ing citation sentences from raw paper texts.
To buildthe citation graph, we used the Levenshtein distance(Levenshtein, 1966) to find and match titles and au-thors of identical papers yet tolerating spelling andPDF extraction errors.To increase robustness, publication years werenot considered as they would hinder matches forFigure 1: Workflow from ACL Anthology data (top)to citation graph navigation applet and citation sentenceviewer (bottom)delayed journal publications.
Generation of thegraph edges, i.e.
matching of papers and referencestrings, is performed by means of the ACL ID, aunique identifier for each paper, available for thePDF (source nodes of references) and BibTeX files(targets of references).We evaluated the generated graph against the onethat was corrected manually by the ACL Anthol-ogy Network (AAN) group (Radev et al, 2009) andfound that 10821 citation links were shared betweenboth and can be considered correct1.3883 additional ones were in the AAN but not rec-ognized by us, the other way round, 1021 discoveredby us were not in the AAN.
In addition, the publica-tion bases were not identical.
The anthology net-work data ends in February 2007 but covers yearsbefore 2002, while our data covers 2002-2008 in-clusively.
Given the fact that our graph is computedfully automatically, the result can be considered verygood.In the next step, we augmented the citation graphby types for each edge.
In contrast to other ap-proaches, we currently only consider the citationsentence itself to determine the citation type, neithera wider context, its position nor the abstract, title orcontent of the cited paper.
A reference (from thereferences section at the end of a paper) may be as-sociated with several citation sentences mentioningthe paper referenced at the end.1We only consider intra-network links here, not those point-ing to books or other publications outside the corpus.8In only considering the citation sentence itself, wemay lose some citation type information, as it maybe (also) contained in follow-up sentences referringto the citation using a pronoun (?they?, ?their ap-proach?
etc.).
Considering follow-up or even pre-ceding sentences is planned to be addressed in futurework.After consulting the rich literature on citationclassification (Bornmann and Daniel, 2008; Gar-zone, 1996; Teufel et al, 2006), we derived a simpli-fied classification schema consisting of the follow-ing five classes.?
Agree: The citing paper agrees with the citedpaper?
PRecycle: The citing paper uses an algorithm,data, method or tool from the cited paper?
Negative: The paper is cited nega-tively/contrastively?
Neutral: The paper is cited neutrally?
Undef: impossible determine the sentiment ofthe citation (fallback)Then, we used a blend of methods to collect ver-bal and non-verbal patterns (cue words) and asso-ciated each with a class from the aforementionedschema.?
A list from (Garzone, 1996) devised forbiomedical texts; it is largely applicable to thecomputational linguistics domain as well.?
Simple negation of positive cue words to obtainnegative patterns.?
A list of automatically extracted synonyms andantonyms (the latter for increasing number ofpatterns for negative citations) from WordNet(Miller et al, 1993).?
Automatically computed most frequent cooc-currences from all extracted citation sentencesof the corpus using an open source cooccur-rence tool (Banerjee and Pedersen, 2003).?
Inspection: browse and filter cue words manu-ally, remove redundancies.3 Results: Distribution and EvaluationThese pattern where then used for the classificationalgorithm and applied to the extracted citation sen-tences.
In case of multiple citations with differentclasses, a voting mechanism was applied were the?stronger?
classes (Agree, Negative, PRecycle) wonin standoff cases.
For the total of 91419 citations weobtained the results shown in Table 1.Classes Citations PercentAgree 3513 3.8%Agree, Neutral 2020 2.2%Negative 1147 1.2%PRecycle 10609 11.6%PRecycle, Agree 1419 1.6%PRecycle, Agree, Neutral 922 1.0%PRecycle, Neutral 3882 4.2%Neutral 13430 14.7%Undef 54837 60.0%Table 1: Citation classification resultThe numbers reflect a careful classification ap-proach where uncertain citations are classified asUndef.
In case of multiple matches, the first (left-most) was taken to achieve a unique result.The results also confirm obervations made inother works: (1) citation classification is a hard task,(2) there are only a few strongly negative citationswhich coincides with observations made by (Teufelet al, 2006), (Pendlebury, 2009) and others, (3) themajority of citations is neutral or of unknown type.An evaluation on a test set of 100 citations spreadacross all the types of papers with a manual checkof the accuracy of the computed labels showed anoverall accuracy of 30% mainly caused by the factthat 90% of undefined hits were in fact neutral(i.e., labeling all undefs neutral would increase ac-curacy).
Negative citations are sparse and unreliable(33%), neutral ones are about 60% accurate, PRecy-cle: 33%, Agree: 25%.To sum up, our automatic classification approachbased on only local citation information could surelybe improved by applying methods described in theliterature, but it helped us to quickly (without an-notation effort) generate a plausible data set for themain task, visualization and navigation in the typedcitation graphs.9Figure 2: Typed citation graph navigator applet4 Visualization Algorithm and NavigationUser InterfaceThe overall idea of the citation visualization andnavigation tool is simple and intuitive.
Each paper isrepresented by a node, all citations between papersare drawn as edges between nodes where the colorof the edge indicates the computed (overall) citationtype, e.g.
green for agree, red for negative, blue forrecycle and black for neutral or undefined.To cope with flexible layouts and scalability ofthe graph, we decided to use the open source toolJava Universal Network/Graph Framework (JUNG,http://jung.sourceforge.net).
Its main advantagesover similar tools are that it supports user interaction(clicking on nodes and edges, tool tips) and user-implemented graph layout algorithms.
A screenshotof the final user interface is presented in Figure 2.The decision for and development of the visual-ization and navigation tool was mainly driven by thefact that citation graphs quickly grow and becomeunmanagable by humans when extended to the tran-sitive closures of citing or cited papers of a givenpublication.
The sheer number of crossing edgeswould make the display unreadable.Figure 3: Focused paper in the centerThe main design goal therefore was reducing thenumber of nodes and edges where possible and (bydefault) have only one paper in focus (Fig.
3), with10all cited papers on the left side (Fig.
4), and all citingpapers on the right (Fig.
5).This also reflects a time line order where the ori-gin (oldest papers) is on the left.
In the graphicaluser interface, the citation depth (default 1) is ad-justable by a slider to higher numbers.
The graphdisplay is updated upon change of the configureddepth.Figure 4: Papers cited by the focused paperAt level 1, papers citing the citing papers (anal-ogously for cited papers), are not fully drawn asnodes, but only adumbrated by short ingoing or out-going edges (arrows).
However, the color of theseshort edges still signifies the citation type and mayattract interest which can easily be satisfied by click-ing on the edge?s remaining node (cf.
screenshot inFigure 2).
When the mouse is moved over a node,a tooltip text display pops up displaying full authorlist and paper title.Figure 5: Papers citing the focused paperTo avoid crossing edges caused by citations atthe same level (citing or cited papers also citeeach other), we devised a fan-out layout generation(Fig.
6).
It increases the width of the displayedgraph, but leads to better readability.
Fan-out lay-out can also be switched off in the user interface.Figure 6: Fan-out layout: avoid crossing edges caused bycitations on the same levelIn addition, the graph layout algorithm orders pa-pers chronologically in the vertical direction.
Here,we have implemented another technique that helpsto avoid crossing edges.
As shown in Fig.
7, wesort papers vertically by also taking into account theposition of its predecessor, the cited paper.
It oftenleads to less crossing edges.Figure 7: Order: avoid crossing edges by orderingchronologically (strict, simple variant on the left for com-parison), taking into account the position of the cited pa-per on the previous level (right)11By double-clicking on any node representing apaper (cited or citing), this node can be made thenew center and the graph is re-arranged accordingly.Zooming in and out is possible via mouse wheelor shortcut buttons (?overview?, ?center?
).Using the right mouse button context menu on anode, it is possible to open a details page for theselected paper with bibliographic metadata and allcitations and types.
All references in the documentwith their citation sentences identified are displayedin a structured list.The citation context around a citation sentenceis shown as well, while the citation sentence itselfis colored according to the citation type color andclickable.
If clicked, the original PDF documentopens with the citation sentence highlighted (Fig.
8;currently only possible in Acrobat Reader).By clicking on an edge instead of a node, only thecitations between the two papers at both ends aredisplayed, in the same way as described above forall citations of a document.5 Related WorkOur paper touches and combines results of threedisciplines, (1) bibliometrics, (2) computational lin-guistics, and (3) information visualization.
Webriefly discuss related and mostly recent literature,being aware of the fact that this list is necessarilyincomplete.
(Garfield, 1965) is probably the first to discussan automatic computation of citation types.
He isalso the founder of citation indexing and the Insti-tute of Scientific Information (ISI).
His first publica-tion on science citation indexing appeared in 1955(Garfield, 1955) and he remained the probably mostinfluential scientist in this field for decades.
(Born-mann and Daniel, 2008) is a comprehensive recentmetastudy on citing behavior.Investigating citation classification has a long tra-dition in bibliometrics and information science andin the last 20 years also attracted computationallinguistics researchers trying to automate the taskbased on rhetorics of science, statistical methods andsentence parsing.There is much more work than we can cite hereon citation function computation worth combinationwith our approach (Bornmann and Daniel, 2008;Garzone, 1996; Teufel et al, 2006) ?
using our toolone can easily browse to further publications!There is little work on innovative layout tech-niques for displaying and navigating citation graphs.We found three independent approaches to citationgraph visualization: CiteViz (Elmqvist and Tsigas,2004), CircleView (Bergstro?m and Jr., 2006), and(Nguyen et al, 2007).
They share a disadvantageousproperty in that they try to visualize too much infor-mation at the same time.
In our opinion, this con-tradicts the need to navigate and keep control overdisplayable parts of large paper collections.Moreover, these approaches do not provide infor-mation on citation types derived from text as oursystem does.
Further ideas on visualizing science-related information such as author co-citation net-works are also discussed and summarized in (Chen,2006).6 Summary and OutlookWe have presented an innovative tool to support sci-entific authors in browsing graphically through largecollections of publications by means of typed cita-tion graphs.
To quickly generate a realistic data set,we devised a classification approach avoiding man-ual annotation and intervention.Our classification results cannot compete with ap-proaches such as (Teufel et al, 2006) based on con-siderable manual annotation for machine learning.However, we think that our application could becombined with this or other approaches describedfor classifying citations between scientific papers.We envisage to integrate the navigation tool ina larger framework supporting scientific authoring(Scha?fer et al, 2008).
When publishing a service ofthis kind on the Web, one would be faced with ethi-cal issues such as the problem that authors could feeloffended by wrongly classified citations.The reason is that citation type classification ispotentially even more subjective than a bare citationindex?which itself is already highly controversal,as discussed in the introduction.
Moreover, there isnot always a single, unique citation type, but oftenvagueness and room for interpretation.Therefore, we suggest to augment such a serviceby a Web 2.0 application that would allow regis-tered users to confirm, alter and annotate precom-12Figure 8: Citation sentence viewer; citation sentence in context on the left, highlighted in PDF on the right whenselected on the leftputed citation classifications.
In this community ap-plication, all citation links in the automatically gen-erated graph could be represented by dashed arrowsinitially, and users could turn them solid by confirm-ing or correcting the citation type and also adding acomment text.Line thickness could be increased (up to an appro-priate maximum) each time another user confirms aclassified citation type.
The results could then alsobe employed for active learning and help to improvethe automatic classification procedure.AcknowledgmentsFirst of all, we are indebted to the anonymous re-viewers for their useful, encouraging and detailedcomments.
Many thanks also to Donia Scott for herfeedback on an earlier version of the tool and helpfulcomments on terminology.
We would like to thankMadeline Maher and Boris Fersing for generatingand evaluating the citation type data on a subcorpusof the ACL Anthology.The work described in this paper has been carriedout in the context of the project TAKE (Technolo-gies for Advanced Knowledge Extraction), fundedunder contract 01IW08003 by the German FederalMinistry of Education and Research.ReferencesSatanjeev Banerjee and Ted Pedersen.
2003.
The de-sign, implementation, and use of the ngram statisticspackage.
In Proceedings of the Fourth InternationalConference on Intelligent Text Processing and Com-putational Linguistics, pages 370?381, Mexico City.Peter Bergstro?m and E. James Whitehead Jr. 2006.
Cir-cleView: Scalable visualization and navigation of cita-tion networks.
In Proceedings of the 2006 Symposiumon Interactive Visual Information Collections and Ac-tivity IVICA, College Station, Texas.Steven Bird, Robert Dale, Bonnie Dorr, Bryan Gibson,Mark Joseph, Min-Yen Kan, Dongwon Lee, BrettPowley, Dragomir Radev, and Yee Fan Tan.
2008.
TheACL anthology reference corpus: A reference datasetfor bibliographic research.
In Proceedings of the Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation Conference (LREC-2008), Marrakesh, Morocco.Lutz Bornmann and Hans-Dieter Daniel.
2008.
Whatdo citation counts measure?
A review of studies on13citing behavior.
Journal of Documentation, 64(1):45?80.
DOI 10.1108/00220410810844150.Chaomei Chen.
2006.
Information Visualization: Be-yond the Horizon.
Springer.
2nd Edition, Chapter 5.Isaac G. Councill, C. Lee Giles, and Min-Yen Kan. 2008.ParsCit: An open-source CRF reference string parsingpackage.
In Proceedings of the Language Resourcesand Evaluation Conference (LREC-2008), Marrakesh,Morocco.Niklas Elmqvist and Philippas Tsigas.
2004.
CiteWiz:A tool for the visualization of scientific citation net-works.
Technical Report CS:2004-05, Department ofComputing Science, Chalmers University of Technol-ogy and Go?teborg University, Go?teborg, Sweden.Eugene Garfield.
1955.
Citation indexes for science: Anew dimension in documentation through associationof ideas.
Science, 123:108?111.Eugene Garfield.
1965.
Can citation indexing be auto-mated?
In Mary Elizabeth Stevens, Vincent E. Giu-liano, and Laurence B. Heilprin, editors, StatisticalAssociation Methods for Mechanical Documentation.National Bureau of Standards, Washington, DC.
NBSMisc.
Pub.
269.Mark Garzone.
1996.
Automated classification of ci-tations using linguistic semantic grammars.
Master?sthesis, Dept.
of Computer Science, The University ofWestern Ontario, Canada.Vladimir I. Levenshtein.
1966.
Binary codes capable ofcorrecting deletions, insertions, and reversals.
SovietPhysics Doklady, 10(8):707?710.Robert.
E Mercer and Chrysanne Di Marco.
2004.
Adesign methodology for a biomedical literature index-ing tool using the rhetoric of science.
In LynetteHirschman and James Pustejovsky, editors, HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: BioLINK 2004, Linking Bi-ological Literature, Ontologies and Databases, pages77?84, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.George A. Miller, Richard Beckwith, Christiane Fell-baum, Derek Gross, and Katherine J. Miller.
1993.Five papers on WordNet.
Technical report, CognitiveScience Laboratory, Princeton University.Quang Vinh Nguyen, Mao Lin Huang, and SimeonSimoff.
2007.
Visualization of relational structureamong scientific articles.
Advances in Visual Informa-tion Systems, pages 415?425.
Springer LNCS 4781,DOI 10.1007/978-3-540-76414-4 40.David A. Pendlebury.
2009.
The use and misuse of jour-nal metrics and other citation indicators.
Archivum Im-munologiae et Therapiae Experimentalis, 57(1):1?11.DOI 10.1007/s00005-009-0008-y.Dragomir R. Radev, Pradeep Muthukrishnan, and VahedQazvinian.
2009.
The ACL anthology network cor-pus.
In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Nat-ural Language Processing and Information Retrievalfor Digital Libraries, Singapore.Ulrich Scha?fer, Hans Uszkoreit, Christian Federmann,Torsten Marek, and Yajing Zhang.
2008.
Extract-ing and querying relations in scientific papers.
InProceedings of the 31st Annual German Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, KI 2008, pages 127?134,Kaiserslautern, Germany.
Springer LNAI 5243.
DOI10.1007/978-3-540-85845-4 16.Simone Teufel, Advaith Siddharthan, and Dan Tidhar.2006.
Automatic classification of citation function.In Proceedings of the 2006 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing, pages 103?110, Sydney, Australia.14
