Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Finding the Common Ground, ACL 2010, pages 52?60,Uppsala, Sweden, 16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsCross-lingual variation of light verb constructions: using parallel corporaand automatic alignment for linguistic researchTanja Samardz?ic?Linguistics DepartmentUniversity of GenevaTanja.Samardzic@unige.chPaola MerloLinguistics DepartmentUniversity of GenevaPaola.Merlo@unige.chAbstractCross-lingual parallelism and small-scalelanguage variation have recently becomesubject of research in both computationaland theoretical linguistics.
In this arti-cle, we use a parallel corpus and an auto-matic aligner to study English light verbconstructions and their German transla-tions.
We show that parallel corpus datacan provide new empirical evidence forbetter understanding the properties of lightverbs.
We also study the influence that theidentified properties of light verb construc-tions have on the quality of their automaticalignment in a parallel corpus.
We showthat, even though characterised by limitedcompositionality, these constructions canbe aligned better than fully compositionalphrases, due to an interaction between thetype of light verb construction and its fre-quency.1 IntroductionFine-grained contrastive studies traditionally be-long to the field of applied linguistics, notably totranslation and second language acquisition stud-ies.
Recently, however, interest for contrastivestudies has been renewed due to developmentsin the general theory of language (the notion ofmicro-parameters (Kayne, 2000)) on the one hand,and due to advances in natural language process-ing based on the exploitation of parallel corpora,on the other hand.Parallel corpora are collections of translationswith explicit alignment of sentences.
They are im-portant resources for the automatic acquisition ofthe cross-linguistic translation equivalents that areneeded for machine translation.
There is also in-terest in using parallel corpora to automatically de-velop new annotated linguistic resources by pro-jecting the annotation that already exists in onelanguage (usually English) (Pado?, 2007; Basili etal., 2009).
Such resources can be used for train-ing systems for automatic parsing for different lan-guages.
Recently, parallel multilingual corporahave also been used to improve performance inmono-lingual tasks (Snyder et al, 2009).For most of these applications, the aligned sen-tences in the parallel corpora need to be analysedinto smaller units (phrases and words), which, inturn, need to be aligned.
Although crucial for suc-cessful use of parallel corpora, word (and phrase)alignment is still a challenging task (Och and Ney,2003; Collins et al, 2005; Pado?, 2007).Our research concentrates on one type of con-struction that needs a special treatment in the taskof aligning corpora and projecting linguistic an-notation from one language to another, namelylight verb constructions.
These constructions, usu-ally identified as paraphrases of verbs (e.g.
havea laugh means laugh, give a talk means talk),are frequent, cross-lingually productive forms,where simple-minded parallelism often breaksdown.
Their meaning is partially uncomposi-tional, formed in a conventional way, which meansthat they cannot be analysed as regular construc-tions and that they cannot be translated to anotherlanguage directly word by word.
Unlike colloca-tions and idioms, however, these constructions areformed according to the same ?semi-productive?pattern in different languages.
Due to their cross-lingual analysability, they can be expected to bealigned at the word level in a parallel corpus, evenif their components are not direct word-to-wordtranslations of each other.
This means that wordalignment of these constructions, needed for au-tomatic translation and transferring annotations, ispossible, but it is not straight-forward.An in-depth study of these constructions in thespecific context of parallel corpora and alignmentcan cast new light on the correlation of their lin-guistic and statistical properties.
On the one hand,52the statistical large-scale analysis of the behaviourof these constructions as the output of an align-ment process provides novel linguistic informa-tion, which enlarges the empirical base for theanalysis of these constructions, and complementsthe traditional grammaticality judgements.
On theother hand, the linguistically fine-grained analysisof the statistical behaviour of these constructionsprovides linguistically-informed performance anderror analyses that can be used to improve align-ers.2 Two Types of Light Verb Constructionsand their AlignmentLight verb constructions have already been iden-tified as one of the major sources of problemsin transferring semantic annotation between lan-guages as close as English and German (Burchardtet al, 2009).
Light verb constructions introducetwo kinds of divergences that can pose a problemfor automatic word alignment.
In the case of truelight verb constructions (Kearns, 2002), Englishphrases such as have a laugh, give [stg.]
a wipe,and take a look typically correspond to Germansingle words, lachen, wischen, and blicken respec-tively.
Such correspondences can be expected toresult in actual parallel sentences where Englishverbs have, give, and take would be either alignedwith the verbs lachen, wischen, and blicken re-spectively or would have no alignment at all.
Suchalignments are not common cases and can be ex-pected to pose a problem to an automatic aligner.Another type of divergence concerns construc-tions with vague action verbs (Kearns, 2002).
Inthis case, English phrases such as make an agree-ment, make a decision, and give a talk correspondto German phrases einen Vertrag schliessen, eineEntscheidung treffen, and einen Vortrag halten,respectively.
Parallel sentences containing theseconstructions should be aligned so that Englishnouns agreement, decision, and talk are alignedwith German nouns Vertrag, Entscheidung, andVortrag.
At the same time, English verb makeshould be aligned with German schliessen in thefirst example, with treffen in the second, and giveshould be aligned with halten in the third example.Aligning the nouns should not pose any problem,since these alignments are direct lexical transla-tions (c.f.
(LEO, 2006 9) online dictionary, for ex-ample) and they can be expected to be aligned inmany different sentences.
However, aligning theverbs is necessarily more complicated, since theyare not direct translations of each other and cannotbe expected to be aligned in other contexts.1However, the difference between the two typesof light verb constructions is not clear cut.
Theyare better seen as two ends of a continuum of verbusages with different degrees of verbs?
lightnessand different degrees of compositionality of themeaning of constructions.
(Stevenson et al, 2004;Butt and Geuder, 2001; Grimshaw and Mester,1988).
Even though several English verbs havebeen identified as having light usages (e.g.
take,make, have, give, pay), there has been little re-search on the influence that the properties of theheading light verb can have on the degree of se-mantic compositionality of the construction.The purpose of the present research is to exam-ine the German translation equivalents of the rangeof different English light verb constructions occur-ring in a parallel corpus and study the differentialperformance of a standard aligner on this languagepair for these constructions.3 ExperimentsOur study is based on the assumption that the qual-ity and bijectivity of the alignment are propor-tional to the corpus frequency and linguistic com-positionality of the construction.
Therefore, weidentify two aspects of the alignment of these con-structions as the relevant objects of study.First, we quantify the amount and nature of cor-rect word alignments for light verb constructionscompared to regular verbs, as determined by hu-man inspection.
Given the described divergencesbetween English and German, it can be expectedthat light verb constructions will be aligned with asingle word more often than constructions headedby a regular verb.
Assuming that the propertiesof the heading light verbs do influence semanticcompositionality of the constructions, it can alsobe expected that light verb constructions headedby different verbs will be differently aligned to theGerman translations, constituting different typesof constructions.1Direct word-to-word English translations of schliessenlisted in the LEO dictionary, for example, are: infer, com-prise, imply, close, close down, conclude, consummate, drawup, lock, shut, shutdown, sign off, quit, while make is onlylisted within the phrase that is translation for this particularcollocation.
Similarly, English word translations for treffenare: encounter, hook up, cross, get together, meet, meet up,hit, hurt, score, strike, while make can only be found as a partof the phrase-to-phrase translations.53Second, we evaluate the quality of automaticword alignments of light verb constructions.Current word alignment models are based onthe assumption that the best word alignments arecomposed of the best word-to-word translations(as an effect of using Expectation-Maximisationfor training).
Factors in the translations that de-viate from one-to-one alignments are often lex-ically specific (fertility) and require sufficientstatistics.
Because of the interaction of theseproperties of the alignment model and the semi-compositionality of light verb constructions, theseconstructions can be expected to pose a problemfor automatic word alignment.
Specifically, we ex-pect lower overall quality of word alignment in thesentences containing light verb constructions thanin the sentences that contain corresponding regularconstructions.As indicated, however, we also expect that thequality of automatic word alignment will be influ-enced by different distributional phenomena thatare not necessarily related to the linguistic prop-erties of parallel texts, in particular related to fre-quency of some of the components of the construc-tion.These predictions about the alignment of lightverb constructions in English and German andtheir realisations in a corpus are examined in anexperiment.3.1 Materials and MethodsA random sample of instances of each of the de-fined types of construction was extracted from alarge word-aligned parallel corpus and manuallyexamined.3.1.1 CorpusThe instances of the phrases were taken from theEnglish-German portion of the Europarl corpus(Koehn, 2005) that contains the proceedings of thesessions held in 1999, irrespective of the sourcelanguage and of the direction of translation.
Be-fore sampling, the corpus was word-aligned usingGIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2003).
Alignments wereperformed in both directions, with German as thetarget language and with English as the target lan-guage.3.1.2 Word alignment using GIZA++The program for automatic word alignment,GIZA++, has been developed within a system forautomatic translation.
It implements a series ofstatistical word-based translation models.
In thesemodels, word alignment is represented as a single-valued function, mapping each word in the tar-get sentence to one word in the source sentence.To account for the fact that some target languagewords cannot be aligned with any source languageword, a special empty word (?NULL?)
is intro-duced in the source sentence.The definition of word alignment does not al-low many-to-many mappings between the wordsof two languages, needed for representing align-ment of non-compositional multi-word expres-sions.
However, it allows aligning multiple wordsin one language to a single word in the other lan-guage, which is needed for successful alignmentof English light verb constructions.3.1.3 Sampling phrase instancesTo study light verb constructions in a parallel cor-pus systematically, we group the instances of theconstructions into two types: light verb construc-tions headed by the verb take, as an example oftrue light verb constructions, and those headedby the verb make, as an example of vague actionverbs.
We compare both types of light verb con-structions to regular constructions headed by theverbs which are WordNet synonyms of the verbmake (create, produce, draw, fix, (re)construct,(re)build, establish) with the same subcategoriza-tion frame.We analyse three samples of the constructions,one for each of the types defined by the headingverb.
Each sample contains 100 instances ran-domly selected from the word-aligned parallel cor-pus.
The constructions are represented as orderedpairs of words, where the first word is the verbthat heads the construction and the second is thenoun that heads the verb?s complement.
Only theconstructions where the complement is the directobject were included in the analysis.23.1.4 Data collectionThe following data were collected for each occur-rence of the English word pairs.The word or words in the German sentence thatare actual translation of the English words wereidentified.
If either the English or German verb2This means that constructions such as take somethinginto consideration were not included.
The only exception tothis were the instances of the construction take something intoaccount.
This construction was included because it is used asa variation of take account of something with the same trans-lations to German.54form included auxiliary verbs or modals, thesewere not considered.
Only the lexical part of theforms were regarded as word translations.We then determine the type of mapping be-tween the translations.
If the German transla-tion of an English word pair includes two wordstoo (e.g.
take+decision?
Beschluss+fassen), thiswas marked as the ?2-2?
type.
If German trans-lation is a single word, the mapping was markedwith ?2-1?.
This type of alignment is further dis-tinguished into ?2-1N?
and ?2-1V?.
In the firstsubtype, the English construction corresponds toa German noun (e.g.
initiative+taken ?
Initia-tive).
In the second subtype, the English construc-tion corresponds to a German verb (e.g.
take+look?
anschauen).
In the cases where a translationshift occurs so that no translation can be found,the mapping is marked with ?2-0?.We also collect the information on automaticalignment for each element of the English wordpair for both alignment directions.
These datawere collected for the elements of English wordpairs (verbs and nouns) separately.
The alignmentwas assessed as ?good?
if the word was alignedwith its actual translation, as ?bad?
if the word wasaligned with some other word, and as ?no align?
ifno alignment was found.
Note that the ?no align?label could only occur in the setting were Englishwas the source language, since all the words in thesentence had to be aligned in the case where it wasthe target language.For example, a record of an occurrence of theEnglish construction ?make+proposal?
extractedfrom the bi-sentence in (1) 3 would contain the in-formation given in (2).
(1) Target language GermanEN: He made a proposal.DE: Er(1) hat(1) einen(3) Vorschlag(4)gemacht(3).Target language EnglishDE: Er hat einen Vorschlag gemacht.EN: He(1) made(5) a(3) proposal(4).
(2) English instance: made + proposalGerman alignment: Vorschlag + gemachtType of mapping: 2-23Glosses:Er hat einen Vorschlag gemacht.he has a proposal madeThe numbers in the brackets in the target sentences indicatethe position of the automatically aligned source word.EnglishLVCtakeLVCmakeRegularGermantranslation 2?
2 57 50 942?
1N 8 18 22?
1V 30 28 22?
0 5 4 2Total 100 100 100Table 1: Types of mapping between English con-structions and their translation equivalents in Ger-man.Automatic alignment, target German, noun:good, verb: no alignAutomatic alignment, target English, noun:good, verb: good4 ResultsIn this section, we present the results of the analy-ses of both correct (manual) and automatic align-ment of the three types of constructions, pointingout the relevant asymmetries.4.1 Results of Manual AlignmentTable 1 shows how many times each of the fourtypes of mapping (2-2; 2-1N; 2-1V; 2-0) betweenEnglish constructions and their German transla-tion equivalents occurs in the sample.We can see that the three types of construc-tions tend to be mapped to their German equiva-lents in different ways.
First, both types of lightverb constructions are mapped to a single Ger-man word much more often than the regular con-structions (38 instances of light verb constructionswith take and 46 instances of light verb construc-tions with make vs. only 4 instances of regularconstructions.).
Confirming our initial hypothe-sis, this result suggests that the difference betweenfully compositional phrases and light verb con-structions in English can be described in terms ofthe degree of the ?2-1?
mapping to German trans-lation equivalents.An asymmetry can be observed concerning thetwo subtypes of the ?2-1?
mapping too.
The Ger-man equivalent of an English construction is moreoften a verb if the construction is headed by theverb take (in 30 occurrences, that is 79% of the 2-1 cases) than if the construction is headed by theverb make (28 occurrences, 61% cases).55DE ENLVCs withtakeBoth EN words 5 57EN noun 63 79EN verb 6 57LVCs withmakeBoth EN words 5 40EN noun 58 58EN verb 6 52RegularconstructionBoth EN words 26 42EN noun 68 81EN verb 32 47Table 2: Well-aligned instances of LVCs with take,with make, and with regular constructions (out of100), produced by an automatic alignment, in bothalignment directions (target is indicated).In the case where the German translation equiv-alent for an English construction is a verb, bothcomponents of the English construction are in-cluded in the corresponding German verb, the ver-bal category of the light verb and the lexical con-tent of the nominal complement.
These instancesare less compositional, more specific and id-iomatic (e.g.
take+care?
ku?mmern, take+notice?
beru?cksichtigen).On the other hand, English constructions thatcorrespond to a German noun are more compo-sitional, less idiomatic and closer to the regularverb usages (e.g.
make+proposal ?
Vorschlag,make+changes ?
Korrekturen).
The noun thatis regarded as their German translation equivalentis, in fact, the equivalent of the nominal part ofthe construction, while the verbal part is simplyomitted.
This result suggests that English lightverb constructions with take are less composi-tional than the light verb constructions with make.4.2 Results on Automatic AlignmentWe evaluate the quality of automatic alignment oflight verb constructions in comparison with reg-ular phrases taking into account two factors, thealignment direction and the frequency of the ele-ments of the constructions.
The results are pre-sented in the next two sections.4.2.1 Direction of AlignmentTable 2 shows how the quality of automatic align-ment varies depending on the direction of align-ment, as well as on the type of construction.
Re-call that more than one target word can be alignedto the same source word and all words of the targethave to be aligned.It can be noted that all the three types of con-structions are better aligned if the target languageis English.
However, the difference in the qualityis bigger in light verb constructions than in regularconstructions, clearly because in this direction themulti-word property of the English light verb con-structions can be represented.
Both words are wellaligned in light verb constructions with take in 57cases and with make in 40 cases if the target lan-guages is English, which is comparable with regu-lar constructions (42 cases).
However, if the targetlanguage is German, both types of light verb con-structions are aligned well (both words) in only 5cases, while regular constructions are well alignedin 26 cases.Looking into the alignment of the elements ofthe constructions (verbs and nouns) separately, wecan notice that nouns are generally better alignedthan verbs for all the three types of constructions,and in both directions.
However, this differenceis not the same in all cases.
The difference inthe quality of alignment of nouns and verbs isthe same in both alignment directions for regularconstructions, but it is more pronounced in lightverb constructions if German is the target.
On theother hand, if English is the target, the differenceis smaller in light verb construction than in regularphrases.
These results suggest that the direction ofalignment influences more the alignment of verbsthan the alignment of nouns in general.
This influ-ence is much stronger in light verb constructionsthan in regular constructions.Finally, our initial hypothesis that the quality ofalignment of light verb constructions is lower thanthe quality of alignment of regular constructionshas only been confirmed in the case where Germanis the target language (both words well aligned in26 cases, compared to only 5 cases in both typesof light verb constructions).
Regular verbs are es-pecially better aligned than light verbs in this case(32 : 6).
However, if the target is English, the qual-ity of alignment of regular constructions is simi-lar to that of light verb constructions with make(42 and 40 good alignments respectively), whilethe constructions with take are aligned even bet-ter than the other two types (57 good alignments).These results suggest that the type of constructionwhich is the least compositional and the most id-iomatic of the three is best aligned if the directionof alignment suits its properties.56Frequency take LVC make LVC RegularLow 12 25 62High 76 35 8Table 3: The three types of constructions parti-tioned by the frequency of the complements in thesample.Well alignedFreq take LVC make LVC RegularLow Both 4 33 8 32 21 34Freq N 8 66 8 32 47 75V 4 33 12 48 53 85High Both 47 62 18 51 4 50Freq N 64 84 27 77 8 100V 58 76 18 51 4 50Table 4: Counts and percentages of well-alignedinstances of the three types of constructions in re-lation with the frequency of the complements inthe sample.
The percentages represent the numberof well-aligned instances out of the overall numberof instances within one frequency range.
Englishis the target language.4.2.2 FrequencySince the quality of alignment of the three typesof constructions proved different from what wasexpected in the case where English was the targetlanguage, we examine further the automatic align-ment in this direction.
In particular, we study itsinteraction with frequency.The frequency of the nouns is defined as thenumber of occurrences in the sample.
It rangesfrom 1 to 20 occurrences in the sample of 100 in-stances.
The instances of the constructions weredivided into three frequency ranges: instancescontaining nouns with 1 occurrence were con-sidered as low frequency items; those contain-ing nouns that occurred 5 and more times in thesample were considered as high frequency items;nouns occurring 2, 3, and 4 times were consideredas medium frequency items.
Only low and highfrequency items were considered in this analysis.Table 3 reports the number of instances belong-ing to different frequency ranges.
It can be notedthat light verb constructions with take exhibit asmall number of low frequency nouns.
The num-ber of low frequency nouns increases in the con-structions with make (25/100), and it is much big-ger in regular constructions (62/100).
The op-posite is true for high frequency nouns (LVCswith take: 76/100, with make: 35/100, regular:8/100).
Such distribution of low/high frequencyitems reflects different collocational properties ofthe constructions.
In the most idiomatic construc-tions (with take), lexical selection is rather limitedwhich results in little variation.
Verbs in regularconstructions select for a wide range of differentcomplements with little reoccurrence.
Construc-tions with make can be placed between these twotypes.Different trends in the quality of automaticalignment can be identified for the three types ofconstructions depending on the frequency range ofthe complement in the constructions, as shown inTable 4.
The quality of alignment of both com-ponents of the constructions is comparable for allthe three types of constructions in low frequencyitems (in 33% of instances of light verb construc-tions with take, 32% of light verb constructionswith make, and 34% of regular constructions boththe verb and the noun were well aligned).
It isalso improved in high frequency items in all thethree types, compared to low frequency.
However,the improvement is bigger in light verb construc-tions with take (62% well aligned cases) than inLVCs with make (51%) and in regular construc-tions (50%).4Looking into the components of the construc-tions separately, we can notice interesting differ-ences in the quality of automatic alignment ofverbs.
The proportion of well-aligned verbs in-creases with the frequency of their complements inlight verb constructions with take (33% of low fre-quency items compared to 76% of high frequencyitems.)
It stays almost the same in light verb con-structions with make (48% of low frequency itemsand 51% of high frequency items), and it even de-creases in regular items (85% of low frequencyitems compared to only 50% of high frequencyitems).5 DiscussionThe results reported in the previous section con-firm both components of our first hypothesis (onthe expected differences in cross-lingual mapping)and refine the conditions under which the sec-ond hypothesis (on the expected differences in thequality of automatic alignment) is true.
We discuss4Note that the high frequency regular items are repre-sented with only 8 instances, which is why the trends mightnot be clear enough for this subtype.57these conclusions in detail here.5.1 Manual AlignmentRecall that the first component of our first hypoth-esis indicated that it is expected that light verbconstructions will be aligned with a single wordmore often than constructions headed by a regularverb.The analysis of corpus data has shown thatthere is a clear difference between English regu-lar phrases and light verb constructions in the waythey are mapped to their translation equivalents inGerman.
Regular constructions are mapped word-by-word, with the English verb being mapped tothe German verb, and the English noun to the Ger-man noun.
A closer look into the only 4 exam-ples where regular constructions were mapped as?2-1?
shows that this mapping is not due to the?lightness?
of the verb.
In two of these cases, it isthe content of the verb that is translated, not thatof the noun (produce+goods?
Produktion; estab-lishes+rights?
legt).
This never happens in lightverb constructions.On the other hand, light verb constructions aremuch more often translated with a single Ger-man word.
In both subtypes of the ?2-1?
map-ping of light verb constructions, it is the con-tent of the nominal complement that is translated,not that of the verb.
The noun is either trans-formed into a verb (take+look ?
anschauen) orit is translated directly with the verb being omitted(take+initiative?
Initiative).This difference provides empirical grounds fordistinguishing between semantically full and se-mantically impoverished verbs, a task that is oftendifficult on the basis of syntactic tests, since theyoften exhibit the same syntactic properties.The second component of the first hypothesisindicated that it was expected that the two types oflight verb constructions be differently aligned.The finding that English light verb construc-tions with take tend to be aligned more often with asingle German verb and less often to a single Ger-man noun than the constructions with make justi-fies classifying the instances into the types basedon the heading verb, which is not a common prac-tice in the linguistic literature.
It suggests thatsome semantic or lexical properties of these verbscan determine the type of the construction.
Moreprecisely, the meaning of the constructions withtake can be regarded as less compositional than themeaning of the constructions with make.
This dif-ference is also supported by the findings of a pre-liminary study of Serbian translation equivalentsof these constructions (Samardz?ic?, 2008).
Englishconstructions with take tend to be translated witha single verb in Serbian, while the constructionswith make are usually translated word-by-word.
55.2 Automatic alignmentThe second hypothesis conjectured that we wouldfind lower overall quality of word alignment inthe sentences containing light verb constructionsthan in the sentences that contain correspondingregular constructions.
The findings of this re-search show that the interactions between align-ment and types of constructions is actually morecomplicated than this simple hypothesis, in someexpected and some unexpected ways.
To sum-marise, we found, first, better alignment of regu-lar constructions compared to light verb construc-tions only if the target language is German; sec-ond, overall, alignment if English is target is bet-ter than if German is target; and thirdly, we founda clear frequency by construction interaction in thequality of alignment.The quality of automatic alignment of both reg-ular constructions and light verb constructions in-teracts with the direction of alignment.
First,the alignment is considerably better if the targetlanguage is English than if it is German, whichconfirms the findings of (Och and Ney, 2003).Second, the expected difference in the quality ofalignment between regular constructions and lightverb constructions has only been found in the di-rection of alignment with German as the targetlanguage, that is where the ?2-1?
mapping is ex-cluded.
However, the overall quality of alignmentin this direction is lower than in the other.This result could be expected, given the generalmorphological properties of the two languages, aswell as the formalisation of the notion of wordalignment used in the system for automatic align-ment.
According to this definition, multiple wordsin the target language sentence can be aligned witha single word in the source language sentence,but not the other way around.
Since English is5The difference in the level of semantic compositionalityof the constructions with take and make could follow fromsome semantic properties of these verbs, such as differentaspectual properties or argument structures.
However, es-tablishing such a relation would require a more systematicsemantic study of light, as well as full lexical uses of theseverbs.58a morphologically more analytical language thanGerman, multiple English words often need to bealigned with a single German word (a situation al-lowed if English is the target but not if German isthe target).The phrases in (3) illustrate the two most com-mon cases of such alignments.
First, Englishtends to use functional words (the preposition ofin (3a)), where German applies inflection (geni-tive suffixes on the article des and on the noun Ba-nanensektors in (3b).
Second, compounds are re-garded as multiple words in English (banana sec-tor), while they are single words in German (Ba-nanensektors).
This asymmetry explains both thefact that automatic alignment of all the three typesof constructions is better when the target languageis English and that the alignment of light verb con-structions is worse than the alignment of regularphrases when it is forced to be expressed as one-to-one mapping, which occurs when German is thealignment target.
(3) a. the infrastructure of the banana sectorb.
die Infrastruktur des BananensektorsPractically, all these factors need to be takeninto consideration in deciding which version ofalignment should be taken, be it for evaluation orfor application in other tasks such as automatictranslation or annotation projection.
The inter-section of the two directions has been proved toprovide most reliable automatic alignment (Pado?,2007; Och and Ney, 2003).
However, it excludes,by definition, all the cases of potentially usefulgood alignments that are only possible in one di-rection of alignment.Linguistically, the fact that the expected differ-ence in the quality of alignment between regularconstructions and light verb constructions has onlybeen found in the direction where English con-structions could not be aligned with single Germanwords can be seen as another empirical indicationof semantic impoverishment of light verbs in com-parison with full lexical verbs.Finally, we found an unexpected frequency byconstruction interaction (Table 4), which explainsthe finding that regular phrases are not betteraligned than light verb constructions if English isthe target language (opposite to our second hy-pothesis).
This interaction, well known in lan-guage processing and acquisition, occurs in thosecases where marked constructions are very fre-quent.
In our case, the marked construction is thesemi-compositional light verb construction withtake, which has frequent noun complements.
Inthis case, despite the non-regularity of the con-struction, alignment is performed well if the di-rection of alignment allows its mapping to a sin-gle word.
Also, with respect to this phenomenon,the constructions with take behave more markedlythan those with make.What is especially interesting about these datais the fact that the alignment is different not justbetween light verb constructions and regular con-structions, but also between the two types oflight verb constructions.
The constructions withtake exhibit more consistent properties of irregu-lar items, while the constructions withmake can bepositioned somewhere between irregular and regu-lar items.
This additionally confirms the claim thatthese two types of constructions differ in the levelof semantic compositionality, providing a basis foran improvement in their linguistic account.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we have proposed a contrastive studyof light verb constructions based on data collectedthrough alignments of parallel corpora.
We haveshown how a linguistically refined analysis canshed light on particularly difficult cases for analignment program, a useful result for improvingcurrent statistical machine translation systems.
Wehave also shown how properties and behaviours ofthese constructions that can be found only in largeparallel corpora and through sophisticated compu-tational tools can shed light on the linguistic natureof the constructions under study.Much remains to be done, both in this generalmethodology and for this particular kind of con-struction.
As an example, we note that the fact thatnouns are aligned better than verbs in all the threetypes of constructions deserves more investiga-tion.
What we do not yet know is whether this factcan be related to some known distributional differ-ences between these two classes or not.
It mightalso mean that nominal lexical items are more sta-ble across languages than verbal ones.
This canhave implications for machine translations, as wellas for annotation projection, since the stable wordscan be used as pivots for alignment and transfer al-gorithms.59ReferencesRoberto Basili, Diego De Cao, Danilo Croce, Bonaven-tura Coppola, and Alessandro Moschitti.
2009.Cross-language frame semantics transfer in bilin-gual corpora.
In Alexander F. Gelbukh, editor,Proceedengs of the 10th International Conferenceon Intelligent Text Processing and ComputationalLinguistics, pages 332?345, Mexico City, Mexico.Springer.Aljoscha Burchardt, Katrin Erk, Anette Frank, An-drea Kowalski, Sebastian Pado?, and Manfred Pinkal.2009.
FrameNet for the semantic analysis of Ger-man: Annotation, representation and automation.In Hans Boas, editor, Multilingual FrameNets inComputational Lexicography: Methods and appli-cations, pages 209?244.
Mouton de Gruyter.Miriam Butt and Wilhelm Geuder.
2001.
On the(semi)lexical status of light verbs.
In Norbert Corverand Henk van Riemsdijk, editors, Semilexical Cate-gories: On the content of function words and thefunction of content words, pages 323?370, Berlin.Mouton de Gruyter.Michael Collins, Philipp Koehn, and Ivona Kuc?erova?.2005.
Clause restructuring for statistical machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL), pages 531?540, Ann Arbor.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Jane Grimshaw and Armin Mester.
1988.
Light verbsand theta-marking.
Linguistic Inquiry, 19:205?232.Richard Kayne.
2000.
Parameters and Universals.Oxford University Press, New York.Kate Kearns.
2002.
Light verbs in English.Manuscript.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpusfor statistical machine translation.
In Proceedingsof MT Summit 2005, Phuket, Thailand.LEO.
2006-9.
LEO Online Dictionary.
LEO Dictio-naryTeam, http://dict.leo.org.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?52.Sebastian Pado?.
2007.
Cross-Lingual AnnotationProjection Models for Role-Semantic Information.Ph.D.
thesis, Saarland University.Tanja Samardz?ic?.
2008.
Light verb constructions inEnglish and Serbian.
In English Language and Lit-erature Studies ?
Structures across Cultures, pages59?73, Belgrade.
Faculty of Philology.Benjamin Snyder, Tahira Naseem, Jacob Eisenstein,and Regina Barzilay.
2009.
Adding more languagesimproves unsupervised multilingual part-of-speechtagging: a Bayesian non-parametric approach.
InProceedings of Human Language Technologies: The2009 Annual Conference of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 83?91, Boulder, Colorado, June.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Suzanne Stevenson, Afsaneh Fazly, and Ryan North.2004.
Statistical measures of the semiproductiv-ity of light verb constructions.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL04 Workshop on Multiword Expressions:Integrating Processing, pages 1?8.
Association forComputational Linguistics.60
