Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 141?143,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsApplying the TARSQI Toolkit to augment text mining of EHRsAmber StubbsDepartment of Computer ScienceBrandeis University MS 018Waltham, Massachusetts, 02454 USAastubbs@cs.brandeis.eduBenjamin HarshfieldChanning LaboratoryBrigham and Women?s HospitalBoston, Massachusetts, 02115 USArebjh@channing.harvard.eduAbstractWe present a preliminary attempt to ap-ply the TARSQI Toolkit to the medi-cal domain, specifically electronic healthrecords, for use in answering temporallymotivated questions.1 IntroductionElectronic Health Records are often the most com-plete records of a patient?s hospital stay, makingthem invaluable for retrospective cohort studies.However, the free text nature of these documentsmakes it difficult to extract complex informationsuch as the relative timing of conditions or proce-dures.
While there have been recent successes inthis endeavor (Irvine et al, 2008; Mowery et al,2009; Zhou et al, 2007), there is still much to bedone.
We present work done to adapt the TARSQIToolkit (TTK) to the medical domain.
Though theuse of the TTK and a set of auxiliary Perl scripts,we perform information extraction over a set of354 discharge summaries used in the R3i REAL-IST study to answer the following question:Which patients can be positively identi-fied as being on statins at the time theywere admitted to the hospital?2 TARSQI ToolkitThe TARSQI Toolkit, developed as a part of theAQUAINT workshops, is a ?modular system forautomatic temporal and event annotation of nat-ural language?
in newswire texts (Verhagen andPustejovsky, 2008).
The different modules prepro-cess the data, label events and times, create linksbetween times and events (called ?tlinks?
), andmark subordination relationships.
Output from theTTK consists documents annotated in TimeML,an XML specification for event and time annota-tion (Pustejovsky et al, 2005).
Of particular inter-est for this project are EVITA, the module respon-sible for finding events in text, and Blinker, themodule used to create syntactic rule-based linksbetween events and timexes.3 Structure of EHRsThe bodies of the Electronic Health Recordsused were segmented, with each section having aheader indicating the topic of that section (?Med-ical History?, ?Course of Treatment?, ?DischargeMedications?, etc).
Header names and sections arenot standardized across EHRs, but often give im-portant temporal information about when eventsdescribed took place (Denny et al, 2008).4 Statin Extraction MethodologyAs the purpose of this task was to discover whatchanges to the TTK would be necessary to makethe transition from newswire to medical texts, overthe course of two weeks we filled in the gaps in thetoolkit?s abilities with a few auxiliary Perl scripts.Specifically, these scripts were used to clean up in-put so that it conformed to TTK expectations, la-bel the statins as events, locate section headers andassociate temporal information with the headers.A list of statins was acquired from an MD, andthen supplemented with information from web-sites in order to get al currently marketed versionsof the drugs.
This list was then used in conjunc-tion with a Perl script to find mentions of statinsin the discharge summaries and create TimeMLevent tags for them.In order to identify and categorize section head-ers we developed a program to automatically col-lect header names from a separate set of approxi-mately 700 discharge summaries.
Then we gath-ered statistics on word frequency and created sim-ple rules for characterizing headers based on key-words.
Headers were divided into four simple cat-egories: Past, Present, After, and Not (for cate-141gories that did not contain specific or relevant tem-poral information).The Blinker component of the TTK was thenmodified to take into account temporal informa-tion stored in the header in addition to the syntac-tic information present in each individual sentencefor the creation of tlinks.5 ResultsOutput from the modified TTK was comparedto the judgment of human annotators on thesame dataset.
Two annotators, employees ofBWH/Harvard Medical involved in data manage-ment and review for clinical trials, were askedto label each file as yes for those patients takingstatins at the time they were admitted to the hos-pital, and no for those that werent.
Files wherestatins were mentioned without clear temporal an-chorings were categorized as ?unsure?.Inter-annotator agreement was 85% (Cohenkappa=.75), with 75% of the disagreements beingbetween ?no?
and ?unsure?.
The majority of theseambiguous cases were discharge summaries wherea statin was listed under ?discharge?
but admissionmedications were not listed, nor were the statinsmentioned as being started at the hospital.
Theannotation guidelines have been updated to reflecthow to annotate these cases in the future.
Over-all, 139 patients were identified as being on statins,174 were not on statins, and 41 were unclear.As the question was which patients could bepositively identified as being on statins at the timeof admission, the files labeled as ?unsure?
wereconsidered to be ?no?
for the purposes of evalua-tion against the TTK, making the totals 139 yesesto 215 noes.
The comparison between human andcomputer annotation are shown below:Yes NoHuman 139 215TTK 129 225Table 1: Distribution of statin classifications.The TTK system had an accuracy of 84% overall,with an accuracy of 95% on the files that the hu-man annotators found to be unambiguous.6 LimitationsWhile we were pleased by these results, a num-ber of factors worked in the favor or the automatedsystem.
The task itself, while requiring a mixtureof lexical and temporal knowledge, was greatlysimplified by a finite list of medications and a bi-nary outcome variable.
Obscure abbreviations ormisspellings could have prevented identificationof statin mentions for both the computer and hu-mans, making the overall accuracy questionable.Additionally, in the majority of documents thestatins were mentioned in lists under temporallyanchored headings rather than free text, therebyminimizing the impact of uncertain times as de-scribed in Hripcsak et al(2009).7 Future workOur work so far shows promising results for beingable to modify the TARSQI Toolkit for use in themedical domain.
In the future, we would like to in-tegrate the functionality of the Perl scripts used inthis project into the TTK, in particular expandingthe vocabulary of the EVITA module to the medi-cal domain, section header labeling, and the use ofthe headers in tlink creation.New annotation schemas will need to be addedto the project in order to get a more complete andaccurate view of medical records.
Under consider-ation is the Clinical E-Science Framework (CLEF)(Roberts et al, 2007) for annotating medical enti-ties, actions (which would overlap with TimeMLevents), drugs, etc.
Modifications to Blinker willbe more fully integrated with the existing rule li-braries.
At this point it is unclear whether the TTKwill remain a single program, or if it will split intodomain-specific versions.Furthermore, the number of files labeled ?un-sure?
by human annotators highlights the need forcross-document analysis abilities.
Had previousrecords for these patients been available, it seemslikely that there would have been fewer uncertain-ties.8 ConclusionModifying the TARSQI Toolkit, a newswire-trained parser, for application in the medical do-main provided accurate results for a very specifictime-sensitive query.AcknowledgmentsPartial support for the work described here wasprovided by the Residual Risk Reduction InitiativeFoundation (r3i.org).142ReferencesJoshua C Denny, Randolph A Miller, Kevin B John-son, and Anderson Spickard.
2008.
Developmentand evaluation of a clinical note section header ter-minology.
AMIA Annual Symposium proceedings,pages 156?60.George Hripcsak, Noe?mie Elhadad, Yueh-Hsia Chen,Li Zhou, and Frances P Morrison.
2009.
Using em-piric semantic correlation to interpret temporal as-sertions in clinical texts.
J Am Med Inform Assoc,16(2):220?7.Ann K Irvine, Stephanie W Haas, and Tessa Sullivan.2008.
Tn-ties: A system for extracting temporal in-formation from emergency department triage notes.AMIA Annual Symposium proceedings, pages 328?32.Danielle L. Mowery, Henk Harkema, John N. Dowling,Jonathan L. Lustgarten, and Wendy W. Chapman.2009.
Distinguishing historical from current prob-lems in clinical reports: which textual features help?In BioNLP ?09: Proceedings of the Workshop onBioNLP, pages 10?18, Morristown, NJ, USA.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.James Pustejovsky, Bob Ingria, and Roser Sauri et al,2005.
The Language of Time: A Reader, chapterThe Specification Language TimeML, pages 545?558.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.Angus Roberts, Robert Gaizauskas, and Mark et alHepple.
2007.
The clef corpus: semantic annotationof clinical text.
AMIA Annual Symposium proceed-ings, pages 625?9.Marc Verhagen and James Pustejovsky.
2008.
Tem-poral processing with the tarsqi toolkit.
In Coling2008: Companion volume - Posters and Demonstra-tions, pages 189?192, Manchester, UK.Li Zhou, Simon Parsons, and George Hripcsak.
2007.The evaluation of a temporal reasoning system inprocessing clinical discharge summaries.
J Am MedInform Assoc, 15(1):99?106.143
