Semantic Computing and Language Knowledge Bases1Lei WangKey Laboratory of Computational Linguisticsof Ministry of EducationDepartment of English, Peking Universitywangleics@pku.edu.cnShiwen YuKey Laboratory of ComputationalLinguistics of Ministry of Education,Peking Universityyusw@pku.edu.cn1 This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No.
60970083) and Chiang Ching-kuoFoundation for International Scholarly Exchange (2009).AbstractAs the proposition of the next-generationWeb ?
semantic Web, semantic computinghas been drawing more and more attentionwithin the circle and the industries.
A lot ofresearch has been conducted on the theoryand methodology of the subject, andpotential applications have also beeninvestigated and proposed in many fields.The progress of semantic computing madeso far cannot be detached from itssupporting pivot ?
language resources, forinstance, language knowledge bases.
Thispaper proposes three perspectives ofsemantic computing from a macro view anddescribes the current status of affairs aboutthe construction of language knowledgebases and the related research andapplications that have been carried out onthe basis of these resources via a case studyin the Institute of Computational Linguisticsat Peking University.1 IntroductionSemantic computing is a technology to composeinformation content (including software) basedon meaning and vocabulary shared by peopleand computers and thereby to design andoperate information systems (i.e., artificialcomputing systems).
Its goal is to plug thesemantic gap through this common ground, tolet people and computers cooperate moreclosely, to ground information systems onpeople?s life world, and thereby to enrich themeaning and value of the entire life world.
(Hasida, 2007) The task of semantic computingis to explain the meaning of various constituentsof sentences (words or phrases) or sentencesthemselves in a natural language.
We believethat semantic computing is a field that addressestwo core problems: First, to map the semanticsof user with that of content for the purpose ofcontent retrieval, management, creation, etc.
;second, to understand the meanings (semantics)of computational content of various sorts,including, but is not limited to, text, video,audio, network, software, and expressing themin a form that can be processed by machine.Figure 1.
Human-computer interaction is handicapped without semantic computing.But the way to the success of semanticcomputing is not even and it has taken a quitelong time for researchers to make someprogress in this field.
The difficulties ofsemantic computing involve many aspects:ambiguity, polysemy, domain of quantifier,metaphor, etc.
Different individuals will havedifferent understanding of the same word or thesame sentence.
Research on the theory andmethodology of semantic computing still has along way to go.Now we provide an example in a searchengine to show how difficult for the computerto understand the meaning of a word.
We inputtwo sentences into Google.com Translate andthe following results were returned:Example 1I bought a table with three dollars.
?20091016 Google: ????
3 ????
?I bought a table with three legs.
?20091016 Google: ????
3????
?We know that the word ?table?
has twocommon meanings in English (a wooden objectand a structured data report).
But in Chinesethey correspond to two different words (?
bi?oand ??
zhu?
zi2).
From Example 1, we cansee that the search engine cannot distinguish thetwo senses and translate them both as ?.
Thus,without semantic analysis queries in a searchengine may result in very poor performance.The first principle of a search engine is basedon shallow Natural Language Processing (NLP)techniques, for instance, string matching, whilefuture direction of search engines should aim atcontent index and the understanding of user?sintention.
Semantic computing becomesapplicable only with the development of deepNLP techniques.
Machine Translation (MT) isthe first application of digital computers in thenon-digital world and semantic information isindispensable in MT research and applications.However, there has been no breakthrough to theextent of Natural Language Understanding(NLU) and semantic computing may serve asthe key to some success in this field.2 Related Work on Semantic ComputingSemantics is an interesting but controversialtopic.
Many a theory has been proposed inattempt to describe what meaning really means.2  Pinyin is currently the most commonly usedRomanization system for standard Mandarin.
The systemis now used in mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, partsof Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore to teach MandarinChinese and internationally to teach Mandarin as a secondlanguage.
It is also often used to spell Chinese names inforeign publications and can be used to enter Chinesecharacters on computers and cell phones.But up until now there has not been a theorythat can describe the meaning of variouslanguage units (words, phrases and sentences)so perfectly that was accepted universally, eventhough Fillmore?s proposition of Frameworksemantics (1976) is successful enough.
SinceGildea et al (2002) initiated the research onautomatic semantic role labeling, manyevaluations have been conducted internationally,such as Senseval-3 and SemEval 2007, as wellas CoNLL SRL Shared Task 2004, 2005 and2008.
Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) isalso a very important research subject and a lotof work has been done in this regard, such asLesk (1986), Gale et al (1998), Jin et a l. (2007)and Qu et al (2007) as the Chinese counterpart.As to the research on computing word senserelatedness, Dagan et al(1993) did some pilotwork and Lee (1997) and Resnik (1999)contributed to the research on semanticsimilarity.In recent years, semantics-based analysissuch as data and web mining, analysis of socialnetworks and semantic system design andsynthesis have begun to draw more attentionfrom researchers.
Applications using semanticssuch as search engines and question answering(Li et al, 2002), content-based multimediaretrieval and editing, natural language interfaces(Yokoi et al, 2005) based on semantics havealso been attracting attentions.
Even semanticcomputing has been applied to areas like musicdescription, medicine and biology and GISsystems and architecture.
The whole idea is howto realize human-centered computing.3 The Theory and Methodology ofSemantic Computing3.1 Important Questions That Need to BeAsked about Semantic ComputingIn the past few years there has been a growinginterest in the field of semantics and semanticcomputing.
But there are questions that havebeen always lingering on researchers?
minds.What on earth semantics is?
What is the bestway to describe the meaning of a language unit?How can natural languages be processed so thatwe are able to benefit from human-computerinteraction, or even interpersonalcommunication?
It seems that no one can givesatisfactory answers to these questions.
But it isnow commonly agreed that the study ofsemantic computing or knowledgerepresentation is a central issue incomputational linguistics.
The majorcontributions on this topic are collected inComputational Linguistics (1987-2010) andInternational Journal of Semantic Computing(2007-2010).
Research in computing semanticsis, however, rather heterogeneous in scope,methods, and results.
The traditional ?wh?
and?how?
questions need to be asked again tounderstand the consequences of conceptual andlinguistic decisions in semantic computing:What?
What should be computed in termsof semantics?
Each word is a world and itsmeaning can be interpreted differently.
Despitethe interest that semantics has received from thescholars of different disciplines since the earlyhistory of humanity, a unifying theory ofmeaning does not exist, no matter whether weview a language from a lexical or a syntacticperspective.
In practice, the quality and type ofthe expressed concepts again depend upon theone who uses it: any language speaker or writer,a linguist, a psychologist, a lexicographer, or acomputer.
In psycholinguistics andcomputational linguistics, semantic knowledgeis modeled with very deep and formalexpressions.
Often semantic models focus onsome very specific aspect of languagecommunication, according to the scientificinterest of a researcher.
In natural languageprocessing, lexical entries or semantic attributestypically express linguistic knowledge ascommonsensically understood and used byhumans.
The entries or attributes are entirelyformatted in some knowledge representationand can be manipulated by a computer.Where?
What are the sources of semanticknowledge?
Traditionally, individualintrospection is often a source of obtainingword senses.
However, individual introspectionbrings about both theoretical andimplementation problems.
Theoretically, it isbecause ?different researchers with differenttheories would observe different things abouttheir internal thoughts...?
(Anderson 1989).With regard to implementation, it is becauseconsistency becomes a major problem when thesize of the lexicon or the syntactic tree bankexceeds a few thousands entries or annotationtags.
Despite the scientific interest of suchexperiments, they cannot be extensivelyrepeated for the purpose of acquiring mass wordsense definitions.
On-line corpora anddictionaries are widely available today andprovide experimental evidence of word uses andword definitions.
The major advantage ofon-line resources is that in principle theyprovide the basis for very large experiments,even though at present the methods of analysisand application are not fully developed andneed further research to get satisfactory results.How?
Semantic computing can be realizedat various levels.
The hard work is to implementa system in a real domain, or the moreconceptual task of defining an effectivemathematical framework to manipulate theobjects defined within a linguistic model.
Quiteobviously the ?hows?
in the literature aboutsemantic computing are much more importantthan the ?whats?
and ?wheres?.
Themethodology that really works in semanticcomputing is deeply related to the ultimateobjective of NLP research, which still cannot bedefined adequately so far.3.2 The Perspectives of Semantic Computingfrom a Macro ViewWhy semantic computing (or NLU) has posedso great a challenge?
We may attribute this totwo major reasons: First, it is based on theknowledge of human language mechanism.
Iffully-developed complicated brains are oftenseen as a crowning achievement of biologicalevolution, the interpersonal communication isno simpler than human biological mechanism.Language has to be a crucial part of theevolutionary process, which has not been fullyunderstood by scientific research.
Second, inNLP research the language is both the target andthe tool.
Current NLP research focuses on eitherspeech or written texts only.
However, in thereal world scenario, reading and interactionbetween humans are multi-dimensional(through different forms of information such astext, speech, or images and utilizing ourdifferent senses such as vision, hearing).
It isnecessary to rely on the advancements of brainscience, cognitive science and other relatedfields and work in collaboration to producebetter results.
Linguistics, especiallycomputational linguistics, has made its owncontribution, and semantic computing will playan important role in NLP.There are complex many-to-many relationsbetween the form and the meaning of alanguage.
Semantic computing is not only theway but also the ultimate goal of naturallanguage understanding.
Although it is hard, weshould not give up.
Here we propose that themain contents of semantic computing includethe following three aspects:?
semantic computing on the ontologicalperspective?
semantic computing on the cognitiveperspective?
semantic computing on the pragmaticperspectiveAs for ontologies, much progress has beenmade worldwide.
The remarkable achievementsin English include: WordNet by PrincetonUniversity, PropBank by University ofPennsylvania, etc.
Also there are quite a numberof efforts made on building ontologies inChinese, which will be elaborated in Section 5.In the last few years, the main direction ofsemantic computing is to disambiguatelanguage units and constructions.
In thefollowing Example 2, the word ??
y?
bi?ohas two meanings in different contexts.
InChinese, word segmentation is also a problemthat needs to be addressed.
In Example 3,segmenting the word ???
b?i ti?n ?
as ?/??
or ??
/?
can result in differentunderstanding of the sentences.Example 2????????
t?
de y?
bi?o h?n du?n zhu?ng (She has a graceful appearance.)????????
t?
de y?
bi?o h?n j?ng qu?
(Her meters are very accurate.
)Example 3???????
?b?i ti?n ?
f?i gu?
l?i le (A white swan flies toward us.)???????
?b?i ti?n ?
k?
y?
k?n ji?
(A goose can guard our house at daytime.
)As to WSD tasks on the word level, someproblems can be solved when ontology isapplied.
But ambiguity can also appear on thesyntactic level.
For this, it is usually difficult forontologies to do much, so we may seek helpfrom language knowledge bases (See Section 5).The following examples of syntactic semanticanalysis will illustrate how different syntacticstructures will change the meaning of sentences:Example 4?????????????
--???????zh?
y?ng de di?n y?ng b?
sh?
l?
j?
sh?
sh?n me?
-- g?i di?n y?ng sh?
l?
j?If a movie as such is not rubbish, what is it?
-- It is rubbish.??????????????
-- ????????zh?
y?ng de di?n y?ng z?n me n?ng shu?
sh?
l?
j?
ne?
-- g?i di?n y?ng b?
sh?
l?
j?How can a movie as such be rubbish?
-- It is not rubbish.Example 5????
?, ??????
-- ???????m?
zh?
sh?
m?
zh?
, q?
q?
sh?
q?
q?
-- m?
zh?
b?
sh?
q?
q?A grasshopper is a grasshopper, while a cricket is a cricket.
-- A grasshopper is not a cricket.Rule?A is A, while B is B.
??
?A is not B.??
?, ???
?d?ng sh?
d?ng, m?o sh?
m?oDing is ding, while mao is mao.
?
being conscientiousWith respect to semantic computing oncognitive level, we will use metaphor as anexample.
For a long time, NLP research hasfocused on ambiguity resolution.
Can NLU berealized after ambiguity resolution?
Metaphor,insinuation, pun, hyperbole (exaggeration),humor, personification, as well as intendedword usage or sentence composing, pose a greatchallenge to NLU research.
If the computer candeal with metaphors, it will greatly improve theability of natural language understanding.First, let?s discuss the rhetorical function ofa metaphor.
Metaphor is extensively andskillfully used in the Chinese classic ?Book ofSongs?
to boost expressiveness.Example 6Simile:   ?????????3???????????
--???????z?
b?
zh?
d?ng ?sh?u r?
f?i p?ng ?q?
w?
g?o m?
?
shu?
sh?
w?i r?ng?-- ?w?i f?ng ?b?
x??
(Your hair is like disordered grass.)Metaphor???????????
--???????t?
sh?n zh?
sh?
?k?
y?
g?ng y??
--?xi?o y??
h?
m?ng?
(Rocks from another mountain can be used to carve jade.
Metaphorically this phrase means achange of method may solve the current problem.
)3 For the purpose of conciseness, only the underlined parts that contain metaphors are translated.Also, many Chinese idioms aremetaphorical expressions: ????
t?ng zh?ug?ng j?
(Literally, to cross the river in the sameboat; metaphorically, to work together with oneheart while in difficulty), ????
t?ng qi?ngti?
b?
(Literally, walls of brass and iron;metaphorically, impregnable).
The Chineselanguage makes use of lots of idioms oridiomatic expressions that are derived fromancient Chinese stories and fables.
Theseidioms and idiomatic expressions are often usedmetaphorically and reflect historical andcultural background of the language.
They arethe most precious relics to the Chinese languageand culture.
Therefore the Chinese IdiomKnowledge Base (CIKB) was also built in 2009.CIKB consists of 38,117 entries and describesmany attributes of Chinese idioms.
Among theattributes, ?literal translation?, ?free translation?and ?English equivalent?
are very valuable.The linguistic function of metaphor is alsoimportant.
Metaphor is the base of new wordcreation and polysemy production (senseevolution), for example, ???
l?
j?
xi?ng(recycle) and ??
b?ng d?
(virus) are used in acomputer setting and words like ??
g?o f?ng(peak), ??
p?ng j?ng (bottleneck) and ?
?xi?n su?
(clue) are endowed with new meaningswhich have not been included in traditionalChinese dictionaries.
Besides, metaphor createsnew meanings in sentence level, for instance, in?????????d?
qi?
sh?
r?n l?i de m?
q?n(The earth is the mother of humanity.
), the word??
(mother) has a different meaning.
So,metaphor understanding is beyond the scope ofambiguity resolution.
Metaphor, linguistics, andhuman cognitive mechanisms are inextricablyinterlinked.
So metaphor becomes a fort thatmust be conquered in NLU research.From an NLP perspective, metaphors canbe summarized into the following categories asin Table 1.
As for the NLP tasks of metaphorcomputing, we can conclude that there are threetasks to be accomplished: First, metaphorrecognition.
For instance, how can wedistinguish ?????
from ?????
?h?i y?ng z?
yu?n k?o ch?
(investigation ofocean resources); Second, metaphorunderstanding and translation.
For instance, ?????
actually means ??????????zh?
sh?
xi?ng h?i y?ng y?
y?ng f?ng f?
(Knowledge is as rich as the ocean.).
Third,metaphor generation.
For instance, how phrasessuch as ????
?x?n x?
de h?i y?ng (oceanof information) and ?????
xi?n hu?
deh?i y?ng (ocean of flowers) can be generatedsuccessfully by computer?Perspective of grammaticalpropertiesPerspective of language unites ofmetaphorical expressionsNominal ?????
z?
gu?
de hu?
du?
(flower of the country), ????
?
sh?ng m?ng de l?ch?ng (life journey)Word-formationlevel??
lu?n sh?
(egg-like stone), ??
?x?ng r?n y?n (apricot-like eyes)Verb ????
x?n ch?o p?ng p?i(heart wave ), ????
f?ngf?i l?
xi?ng (let f dream fly)Word level ??
ch?o li?
(t ide), ??
zh?o y?ng(morning sun)Adjective ?????????zh?
pi?nw?n zh?ng xi?
de g?n b?
(Thisarticle is written drily), ?????????zh?
p i?n w?nzh?ng q?ng t?ng gu?
shu?
(This article is like plain soupand water.
)Phrase level ?????
zh?
sh?
de h?i y?ng (oceanof knowledge), ???????
b?zh?ng x?ng f?
de zh?ng zi (to sow theseeds of happiness)Adverb ?
?
?
?
ch?n cu?
h?shu?
(absolute nonsense)Sentence level ??????q?
ch?
h?
q?
y?u (Carsdrink gasoline.
), ????
n?
r?n sh?shu?
(A woman is water.
)Discourse level ????????????????????????d?
q?
hu?ng y?ng ?r, m?
ji?ozh?
sh?ng t??t?
sh?
j?ng qi?
m?ng, b?
d?d?o li?o x?
?
(To scare away thenightingales for their noise has my dreamin which I went to the west to meet mydear husband.
)Table 1.
Categories of metaphors from NLP perspective.Currently we focus on recognition andunderstanding of metaphors on phrase andsentence level.
The automatic processingmethods of metaphors can be summarized astwo: First, rule (or logic)-based method, i.e.,finding the conflicts between the target and thesource, and search their common properties.Example 7?????????zh?
g?
r?n sh?
y?
t?u sh?
zi (This man is a lion)?
only the target and the source????????n?
g?
r?n sh?
l?o h?
li (That man is an old fox.)?
only the target and the source??????????????????
?s?n l?n l?
j?
y?u y?ng m?ng de sh?
zi, y?
y?u ji?ohu?
de h?
li (In the forest, there are both brave lions and sly foxes.)
--- find out properties of the sources????????????????zh?
g?
r?n sh?
y?ng m?ng de, n?
g?
r?n sh?
ji?o hu?
de(This man is brave, while that man is sly.
)The utterance ???????????h?
b?i y?u g?
l?o t?i t?i ch?
t?
ku?i (An old ladyin Hebei eats clay.)
is not in conformity withcommon sense, but it is not a metaphor;whereas ??????
?n?n r?n d?u sh?
d?ngw?
(All men are animals.)
is logical but it maybe a metaphor in certain context and may not bein another context.Second, empirical (statistical) method i.e.,providing machine with a large number ofsamples and training a model.
Yu Shiwenpresided over the national 973 project?Database for text content understanding?
(2004-2009), which includes a subtask named?Analysis of Metaphorical Expressions andTheir Pointed Contents in Chinese Texts?.
Inthis project, various machine learning methodshave been applied to do semantic analyses fromthe token level.
Among them, Wang Zhimincompleted her doctoral thesis ?Chinese NounPhrase Metaphor Recognition?
in 2006.
JiaYuxiang studied verb metaphor recognition and?X is Y?
type metaphor understanding andgeneration.
Qu Weiguang presided over theNational Natural Science Fund Project?Research on Key Technologies in ChineseMetaphor Understanding?
(2008-2010).From a statistical point of view, metaphorrecognition can be seen as a problem tocompute the conditional probability p(m|c) todecide whether ??
is a metaphor in context c.The reversed order of two variants m and c willnot change the value of unified probability ofp(m|c) and p(c|m),while the relation betweenunified probability and conditional probabilitycan be written as:(1)Then,(2)Given c?p(c) is a constant.
Then,(3)Given a threshold?
, if             >?
,then we can deem this ??
is a metaphor.Then the problem becomes how tocompute            .
We can compute itbased on large-scale annotated corpus and get(4)Nm ?
the times of ??
as a metaphor in thecorpus;N  ?
the total times of ??
in the corpus.Then we simplify ??
and its context cinto: W-k  ?
W-1 ??
W1 ?
Wi , where W-k, ?,W-1, W1,?, Wi represent the n-gram of ?
?and its syntactic and semantic attributesrespectively.
(5)(6)N(Ws) stands for the times ofco-occurrence of ??
as a metaphor and wordW with designated attributes at position.
Herean important hypothesis of independence is:words at different position s is not correlatedwith the word ?
?.Last, we will discuss semantic computingon the pragmatic perspective, which is more orless unique of Chinese language.
First, thechange of construction in Chinese will affectthe meaning of a sentence even though thewords themselves are not changed.
Theemphasized meaning of the construction is notequal to the combination of the underlyingmeaning from each element in the construction.The meaning reflects the distribution of quantityof entities and the relative locations amongentities.
Although the underlying syntacticrelationship among the main verb, the agent andthe object(s) still exists, such syntacticrelationship is only secondary.
As in thesentence ??????????zh?
zh?ngchu?ng k?
y?
shu?
s?n g?
r?n (This bed cansleep three people.)
is different in meaning fromthe sentence ??????????
(Threepeople can sleep on this bed.).
Second, the)|()()|()( mcpmpcmpcp ?
)/)|()()|( cpmcpmpcmp ?
)|()()|( mcpmpcmp ?
)|()( mcpmpNNmp m /)( ?
)|()|()|()|()|( 11 mWpmWpmWpmWpmcp ik ??
???
),,1,1,,(,/)()|( iksNWNmWp wss ??
????
??
)|()( mcpmpsemantic direction of the complement inverb-complement constructions and theadverbial phrase in verb-adverbial constructionsalso change the semantic roles of eachconstituent.
For instance, ?????????
w?n zh?ng ?
xi?
w?n le ((The article) iscompleted.)
or ?????????
l?o sh?
?xi?
l?i le ((The teacher) is tired for writing.)
or???????????
?xi?ng p?n p?n d?zh?
le y?
p?n hu?
sh?ng m?
(aromatically fried aplate of peanuts).
Here the ontology cannotprovide enough information to reflect theprocess and result of change in semantic roles.Thus the Generalized Valence Mode (GVM) isproposed to describe not only participants of theaction, but also the change of participants?
states.Third, our ultimate goal will be to achieve?semantic harmony?.
For instance, in bothEnglish and Chinese we can say ???
b?
ch?l?i (pull out) or ???
ch?
j?n q?
(thrustinto), but we never say ???
(thrust out) or???
(pull into).
It is alright to say ??????????n?
g?
d?
p?n gu?
t?
d?u ch?
le(That big apple he eats it all.)
, but it isawkward to say??????????n?
k?xi?o h?
t?o t?
d?u ch?
le (That small chestnut heeats it all.).
In fact we can say ???????????n?
k?
xi?o h?
t?o s?ng sh?
d?u ch?
le(That small chestnut the squirrel eats it all.
).Figure 2.
Empirical (statistical) method of metaphor processing.Professor Lu Jianming (2010) remarked onthe realization of semantic harmony.
Theprinciple of semantic constraint of wordsessentially requires that the words in sentencesshould be harmonic in terms of meaning.Analysis of ill-formed sentences and automaticlanguage generation will benefit from theresearch in semantic harmony.
Semanticcomputing on the pragmatic level has uniquecharacteristics with respect to Chinese language.The solution of these problems poses a greatchallenge and will make great contribution tothe understanding of the essence anduniversality of languages.4 Potential Applications of SemanticComputing ?
a Case Study onAutomatic Metaphor Processing inSearch EnginesNowadays, search engines are developing veryrapidly and some of them have won greateconomic success.
In terms of semanticcomputing, Baidu.com takes the lead and hasunveiled the search concept ?Box computing?which introduces semantic analysis.
Theprecision and recall of a search engine arealways the essential issue that a user isconcerned.
Therefore we will find the value ofsemantic computing first in a search engine.Certainly, if metaphor can be understoodproperly by a computer, the precision of searchengines will be improved.
Let?s take the phrase??
q?
f?i(take off) as an example.
Literally ??
means an aircraft takes off such as in ??????
h?ng b?n q?
f?i sh?
ji?n (the time forthe airplane to take off).
Sometimes we also useit in phrases like ????
j?ng j?
q?
f?i(economic take-off) or ???????
?d?ng f?ng m?i n?
g?
t?n q?
f?i (Orientalbeauties take off in the music arena.)
to meanmetaphorically.
If the literal sense and itsmetaphorical sense can be distinguishedsuccessfully, we will find the exact informationthat we need.
Meanwhile, we hope that throughthis the recall of search engine will also beimproved.
For example, in Chinese we oftenuse the phrase ?????
z?
gu?
de hu?
du?
(flowers of the country) metaphorically to referto ??
?r tong (children).
So web pagesdescribing ?????
should also be relatedto the query word ?
?.We also observe that the phrases ???
?j?n r?ng f?ng b?o (financial storm) and ????
j?n r?ng h?i xi?o(financial tsunami)metaphorically refer to ????
j?n r?ng w?ij?
(financial crisis).
But when we input thequery ????
into a search engine, theresults were only web pages with ????
or??//??.
But when we use the query????
or???
?, there were no web pages withthe results ????.
We know that the phrase???
ch?o y?u y?
has literal usage (to frysquids) and metaphorical usage (to fire sb.
fromhis/her job).
When we input the phrase into thesearch engine, we find the result withmetaphorical usage takes up 65% while otherusage only accounts for 35% (Wang, 2006).Therefore we may conclude that whethermetaphor is understood will seriously affectprecision and recall.Another important application lies inmachine translation and cross-lingual search.Correct metaphor recognition andunderstanding is the precondition of correcttranslation.
Machine translation can be aframework to evaluate the performance ofmetaphor recognition and understanding, andalso is a tool to realize cross-lingual search.
Forinstance, a well-known Chinese femalevolleyball player got a nickname as ???
ti?l?ng tou.
Shall we translate it literally as ?ironhammer?
or more metaphorically as ?iron fist?in order to let a user of search engine have abetter sense of what it actually means?Translation is culture-bound.
When we see thesentence ??????
?g?i di?n y?ng sh?
j?
l?i,how should we translate the word ??
(achicken?s rib) here?
And how shall wedistinguish its literal meaning with itsmetaphorical meaning (?????????sh?zh?
w?
w?i q?
zh?
k?
x?, tasteless to eat but awaste to cast away) in order to understand betterthe sentence ?The movie is a chicken?s rib?
?Therefore when we investigate thefeasibility analysis of applications of automaticmetaphor recognition, we propose there are stillthree solutions to the above-mentionedproblems:?
To overcome the limitedness of sourcedomain words?
To recognize metaphors in web pagesand build metaphor indexes.
Offlineprocessing often makes good use of theadvantages of a search engine.?
Before realizing query understanding,let users choose metaphorical or literalmeaning of the query throughhuman-computer interaction.5 Language Knowledge Bases as theFoundation of Semantic ComputingAs the foundation of semantic computing,language knowledge bases are in great demand.The achievements on language knowledgebases for Chinese-centered multilingualinformation processing include: Chinese LDC,Comprehensive Language Knowledge Base(CLKB) by ICL at Peking University, HowNetby Zhendong Dong, Chinese Dependency TreeBank by Harbin Institute of Technology, etc.Language knowledge base is anindispensable component for NLP system, andits quality and scale determines the failure orsuccess of the system to a great extent.
For thepast two decades, a number of importantlanguage knowledge bases have been builtthrough the effort of people in Institute ofComputational Linguistics (ICL) at PekingUniversity.
Among them, the GrammaticalKnowledge Base of Contemporary Chinese(GKB) (Yu et al, 2000) is the most influential.Based on GKB, various research projectshave been initiated.
For instance, a project onthe quantitative analysis of ?numeral-noun?construction of Chinese was conducted byWang (2009) to further analyze the attributes ofChinese words.
A project aiming at the emotionprediction of entries in CIKB was completed byWang (2010) to further understand how thecompositional elements of a fossilized constructlike an idiom function from the token level.Offset Synset Csyncet Hypernym Hyponym Definition Cdefinition07632177 teacherinstructor??????????????????
?072353220708633207162304072094650724376707279659072976220734117607401098?a personwhoseoccupationis teaching???????
?Offset Synset Csyncet Hypernym Hyponym Definition Cdefinition07331418  husbandhubbymarried_man???????????????????
?0739104407109482071959680725572607328008a marriedman;a woman'spartner inmarriage??????????????
?Offset Synset Csyncet Hypernym Hyponym Definition Cdefinition07414666MisterMr.???????????
?07391044a form ofaddress fora man???????
?Table 2.
The Synset of the word ??
ji?o sh?
and its related Synsets.Following GKB, language knowledge basesof large scale, high quality and various type(words and texts, syntactic and semantics,multi-lingual) have been built, such as theChinese Semantic Dictionary (CSD) forChinese-English machine translation, theChinese Concept Dictionary (CCD) forcross-language text processing, the multi-levelAnnotated Corpus of Contemporary Chinese,etc.
The projects as a whole won the Scienceand Technology Progress Award issued byMinistry of Education of China in 2007.As mentioned in Section 3, the word ??
(virus) has two senses in both English andChinese: one is in biology and the other is incomputer science.
When we want to docross-lingual information retrieval, the twosenses need to be distinguished.
Hence, CCDcan serve as a useful tool to complete the taskfor it organizes semantic knowledge from adifferent angle.
Concepts in CCD arerepresented by Synsets, i.e.
sets of synonyms asin Table 2.
For instance, the concept ??
is ina Synset {??
??
??
??
??
?????
???
?}
and all the concepts forma network to associate the various semanticrelations between or among the concepts:hypernym-hyponym, part-whole, antonym,cause and entailment, by which we can retrieveinformation in either an extensive or acontractive way so as to improve the precisionor recall of a search engine.
It can also providesupport for WSD tasks.In 2009, the various knowledge bases builtby ICL were integrated into the CLKB.
Theintegration of heterogeneous knowledge basesis realized by a resolution of ?a pivot of wordsense?.
Three basic and important knowledgebases, GKB, CSD and CCD have beenintegrated into a unified system which includeslanguage processing module, knowledgeretrieval module and knowledge explorationmodule.Although there are some fundamentalresources on semantic computing, it needsfurther improvement, updating, integration andspecification to form a collective platform toperform more complicated NLP tasks.
Tofurther improve the result of semanticcomputing, innovative projects for new tasksshould also be launched, for instance:?
metaphor knowledge base?
ultra-ontology dynamic knowledgebase (generalized valence mode)?
the integration of information basedon multi-lingual translation6 Concluding RemarksWhy semantics is so useful in the first place?Linguists and psychologists are interested in thestudy of word senses to shed light on importantaspects of human communication, such asconcept formation and language use.Lexicographers need computational aids toanalyze in a more compact and extensive wayword definitions in dictionaries.
Computerscientists need semantics for the purpose ofnatural language processing and understanding.Therefore, the significance of semanticcomputing in NLP is obvious and more researchneeds to be done with this respect.All in all, we may conclude that themethods of semantic computing can besummarized as the following:?
The research of applicable languagemodel?
The research of effective algorithms?
To build language knowledge bases asits foundationSemantic computing is a long-termresearch subject.
We hope more progress can bemade if a clearer view can be provided for thedirection of its development and the pavementfor future research can be constructed moresolidly with more work done.AcknowledgementsOur work is based on the long-termaccumulation of the language resources thathave been built by the colleagues of ICL and itis their contributions that make our achievementpossible today.
Parts of the content in this paperwere presented by Shiwen Yu on theconferences in Hangzhou (InternationalWorkshop on Connected Multimedia 2009) andSuzhou (the 11th Chinese Lexical SemanticsWorkshop 2010), and many thanks should begiven to those who offered valuable thoughtsand advice.
The authors also want to extendtheir gratitude toward CIPS-Sighan for thisvaluable opportunity to demonstrate ourviewpoints and work.ReferencesAnderson, J. R. 1989.
A Theory of the Originsof Human Knowledge.
ArtificialIntelligence.
40(1-3): 313-351.Carreras, X. and Marques L. 2004.
Introductionto the CoNLL-2004 Shared Task: SemanticRole Labeling.
Proceedings of the CoNLL2004: 89-97.Dagan, I. et al 1993.
Contextual WordSimilarity and Estimation from SparseData.
In Proceedings of the 31st AnnualMeeting on the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL):164-171Fillmore, C. J.. 1976.
Frame Semantics and theNature of Language.
In Annals of the NewYork Academy of Sciences: Conference onthe Origin and Development of Languageand Speech:20-32Gale, William A., Kenneth W. Church, andDavid Yarowsky.
1993.
A Method forDisambiguation Word Senses in a LargeCorpus.
Computers and the Humanities.26(5-6): 415-439Gildea, Denial and Denial Jurafsky.
2002.Automatic Labeling of Semantic Roles.Computational Linguistics, 28(3):245-288.Hasida, K. 2007.
Semantic Authoring andSemantic Computing.
Sakurai, A. et al(Eds.
): JSAI 2003/2004, LNAI 3609,137?149.Ide, Nancy and Jean V?ronis.
1998.Introduction to the Special Issue on WordSense Disambiguation: The State of the Art,Computational Linguistics, 24(1) : 2-40.Jin, Peng, Wu Yunfang, Yu Shiwen.SemEval-2007 Task 05: MultilingualChinese-English Lexical Sample.
InProceedings of SemEval-2007: 19-23.Johansson, Richard and Pierre Nugues.
2008.Dependency-based Syntactic-semanticAnalysis with PropBank and NomBank.
InProceedings of the Twelfth Conference onComputational Natural LanguageLearning: 183-187.Lee, Lillian.
Similarity-Based Approaches toNatural Language Processing.
Ph.D. thesis.Harvard University.Lesk, Michal.
1986.
Automatic SenseDisambiguation: How to Tell a Pine froman Ice Cream Cone.
In Proceedings of the5th Annual International Conference onSystems Documentation: 24-26.Li, Sujian, Zhang Jian, Huang Xiong and BaiShuo.
2002.
Semantic Computation inChinese Question-Answering System,Journal of Computer Science andTechnology, 17(6) : 993-999.Lu, Jianming.
2010.
Foundations of Rhetoric --The Law of Semantic Harmony.
RhetoricLearning, 2010(1): 13-20.Qu, Weiguang, Sui Zhifang, et al 2007.
ACollocation-based WSD Model:RFR-SUM.
In Proceedings of the 20 thInternational Conference on Industrial,Engineering, and Other Applications ofApplied Intelligent Systems:23-32.Schutze, Hinrich.
1998.
Automatic Word SenseDiscrimination.
Computational Linguistics,24(1):97-124.Resnik, Philip.
1999.
Semantic Similarity in aTaxonomy: An Information-BasedMeasure and its Application to Problems ofAmbiguity in Natural Language, Journalof Artificial Intelligence Research 11:95-130.Wang, Lei and Yu Shiwen.
Forthcoming 2010.Construction of Chinese Idiom KnowledgeBase and Its Applications.
In Proceedingsof Coling 2010 Multi-word ExpressionsWorkshop.Wang, Meng et al 2009.
Quantitative Researchon Grammatical Characteristics of Noun inContemporary Chinese.
Journal of ChineseInformation Processing, 22(5): 22-29.Wang, Zhiming.
2006.
Recent Developments inComputational Approach to MetaphorResearch.
Journal of Chinese InformationProcessing, 20(4): 16-24.Xue, Nianwen and Martha Palmer.
2005.Automatic Semantic Role Labeling forChinese Verbs.
In Proceedings of the 19thInternational Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence:1160-1165Yu, Shiwen et al.
2003.
Introduction toGrammatical Knowledge Base ofContemporary Chinese (Second Edition)(in Chinese), Tsinghua University Press,Beijing, China.
