Proceedings of the NAACL HLT Workshop on Extracting and Using Constructions in Computational Linguistics, pages 32?38,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSyntactic Construct : An Aid for translating English Nominal Compoundinto HindiSoma PaulIIIT Hyderabadsoma@iiit.ac.inPrashant MathurIIIT Hyderabadmathur@research.iiit.ac.inSushant KishoreIIIT Hyderabadsusanta@research.iiit.ac.inAbstractThis paper illustrates a way of using para-phrasal interpretation of English nominalcompound for translating them into Hindi.Input Nominal compound is first para-phrased automatically with the 8 preposi-tions as proposed by Lauer (1995) for thetask.
English prepositions have one-to-onemapping to post-position in Hindi.
TheEnglish paraphrases are then translatedinto Hindi using the mapping schema.
Wehave got an accuracy of 71% over a set ofgold data of 250 Nominal Compound.
Thetranslation-strategy is motivated by thefollowing observation: It is only 50% ofthe cases that English nominal compoundis translated into nominal compound inHindi.
In other cases, they are translatedinto varied syntactic constructs.
Amongthem the most frequent construction typeis ?Modifier + Postposition + Head?.
Thetranslation module also attempts to deter-mine when a compound is translated usingparaphrase and when it is translated into aNominal compound.1 IntroductionNominal Compounds are syntactically condensedconstructs which have extensively been attemptedto expand in order to unfold the meaning of theconstructions.
Currently there exist two differentapproaches in Computational Linguistics: (a) La-beling the semantics of compound with a set ofabstract relations (Moldovan and Girju, 2003) (b)Paraphrasing the compound in terms of syntac-tic constructs.
Paraphrasing, again, is done inthree ways: (1) with prepositions (?war story??
?story about war?)
(Lauer 1995) (2) withverb+preposition nexus (?war story?
?
?storypertaining to war?, ?noise pollution?
?
?pol-lution caused by noise?)
(Finin 1980) (3) withCopula (?tuna fish?
?
?fish that is tuna?)
(Van-derwende,1995).
Nominal compound (henceforthNC) is a frequently occurring construct in En-glish1.
A bigram or two word nominal compound,is a construct of two nouns, the rightmost nounbeing the head (H) and the preceding noun themodifier (M) as found in ?cow milk?, ?road condi-tion?, ?machine translation?
and so on.
Rackow etal.
(1992) has rightly observed that the two mainissues in translating the source language NC cor-rectly into the target language involves (a) correct-ness in the choice of the appropriate target lex-eme during lexical substitution and (b) correctnessin the selection of the right target construct type.The issue stated in (a) involves correct selection ofsense of the component words of NCs followed bysubstitution of source language word with that oftarget language that best fits for the selected sense(see Mathur and Paul 2009).From the perspective of machine translation, theissue of selecting the right construct of target lan-guage becomes very significant because EnglishNCs are translated into varied construct types inHindi.
This paper motivates the advantage of ex-panding English nominal compounds into ?para-phrases with prepositions?
for translating theminto Hindi.
The English NCs are paraphrased us-ing Lauer?s (1995) 8 prepositions.
In many casesprepositions are semantically overloaded.
For ex-ample, the NC ?Hindu law?
can be paraphrasedas ?law of Hindu?.
This paraphrase can mean?Law made by Hindu?
(not for Hindu people alonethough) or ?Law meant for Hindu?
(law can bemade by anyone, not by the Hindus necessarily).Such resolution of meaning is not possible from?preposition paraphrase?.
The paper argues thatthis is not an issue from the point of view of trans-1Kim and Baldwin (2005) reports that the BNC corpus (84million words: Burnard (2000)) has 2.6% and the Reuters has(108M words: Rose et al (2002)) 3.9% of bigram nominalcompound.32lation at least.
It is because the Hindi correspon-dent of ?of?, which is ?kA?, is equally ambiguous.The translation of ?Hindu law?
is ?hinduoM kAkAnUn?
and the construction can have both afore-mentioned interpretations.
Human users can se-lect the right interpretation in the given context.On the other hand, ?paraphrase with preposition?approach has the following advantages: (a) An-notation is simpler; (b) Learning is easier and (c)Data sparseness is less; (d) Most importantly, En-glish prepositions have one to one Hindi postpo-sition correspondents most of the times.
There-fore we have chosen the strategy of ?paraphrasingwith prepositions?
over other kind of paraphrasalapproach for the task of translation.
The pa-per explores the possibility of maintaining one toone correspondence of English-Hindi preposition-postpositions and examines the accuracy of trans-lation.
At this point it is worth mentioning thattranslation of English NC as NC as well as differ-ent syntactic constructs in Hindi is almost equal.Therefore the task of translating English NCs intoHindi is divided into two levels: (1) Paraphrasesfor an NC are searched in the web corpus, (2) Analgorithm is devised to determine when the para-phrase is to be ignored and the source languageNC to be translated as NC or transliterated in NC,and (3) English preposition is replaced by Hindicorresponding postposition.
We have comparedour result with that of google translation systemon 250 that has been manually created.The next section describes the data in some de-tail.
In section 3, we review earlier works that havefollowed similar approaches as the present work.Our approach is described in section 4.
Finally theresult and analysis is discussed in section 5.2 DataWe made a preliminary study of NCs in English-Hindi parallel corpora in order to identify the dis-tribution of various construct types in Hindi whichEnglish NCs are aligned to.
We took a paral-lel corpora of around 50,000 sentences in whichwe got 9246 sentences (i.e.
21% cases of thewhole corpus) that have nominal compounds.
Wehave found that English nominal compound can betranslated into Hindi in the following varied ways:1.
As Nominal Compound?Hindu texts?
?
hindU shAstroM?milk production?
?
dugdha utpAdana2.
M + Postposition + H Construction?rice husk??
cAvala kI bhUsI,?room temperature??
kamare ke tApa-mAna?wax work??
mom par citroM?work on wax?
?body pain??
sharIra meM darda?pain in body?English NCs are frequently translated intogenitive2 construct in Hindi.
In English ?of?is heavily overloaded(very ambiguous), sothe genitives are in Hindi.
The two otherpostpositions that we see in the above dataare par ?on?
and meM ?in/at?
and they referto location.3.
As Adjective Noun Construction?nature cure?
?
prAkritika cikitsA?hill camel?
?
pahARI UMtaThe words prAkrtik and pahARI being ad-jectives derived from prakriti and pAhAR re-spectively.4.
Single Word?cow dung?
?
gobaraThe distribution of various translations is givenbelow:Construction Type No.
of OccurrenceNominal Compound 3959Genitive(of-kA/ke/kI) 1976Purpose (for-ke liye) 22Location (at/on-par) 34Location (in-meM) 93Adjective Noun Phrase 557Single Word 766Transliterated NC 1208Table 1: Distribution of translations of English NCfrom English Hindi parallel corpora.There are 8% cases (see table 1) when an En-glish NC becomes a single word form in Hindi.For rest of the cases, they either remain as NC(translated 43% or transliterated 13%) or corre-spond to syntactic construct.
When NC is trans-lated as NC, they are mostly technical terms2?of?
corresponds to ?kA/ke/kI?, which are genitivemarkers in Hindi.33or proper names.
Our data shows that there arearound 40% cases when English NC is translatedas various kinds of syntactic constructs such M+ Postposition + H, Adj + H or longer para-phrases (?Hand luggage?
?
hAth meM le jAnevAle sAmAn ?luggage to be carried by hand?).
Outof these data, 70% cases are when English NC istranslated into M3 + postposition + H. Thus thetranslation of NC into postpositional constructionis very common in Hindi.For preparation of test data, we extracted nomi-nal compound from BNC corpus (Burnard et al,1995).
BNC has varied amount of text rangingfrom newspaper article to letters, books etc.
Weextracted a sample of noun-noun bigrams from thecorpus and manually translated them into Hindi.In this paper, we propose an algorithm that de-termines when the syntactic paraphrase of EnglishNC is to be considered for translation and when itis left for direct lexical substitution in Hindi.3 Related WorksThere exists no work which has attempted theapproach that we will be discussing here fortranslating English NC into Hindi.
From that per-spective, the proposed approach is first of its kindto be attempted.
However, paraphrasing EnglishNCs is a widely studied issue.
Scholars (Levi1978; Finin 1980) agree there is a limited numberof relations that occur with high frequency innoun compounds.
However, the number andthe level of abstraction of these frequently usedsemantic categories are not agreed upon.
Theycan vary from a few prepositional paraphrases(Lauer, 1995) to hundreds and even thousandsmore specific semantic relations (Finin, 1980).Lauer (1995), for example, considers eight prepo-sitional paraphrases as semantic classificationcategories: of, for, with, in, on, at, about, andfrom.
According to this classification, the nouncompound ?bird sanctuary?, for instance, canbe classified both as ?sanctuary of bird?
and?sanctuary for bird?.The automatic interpretation of noun compoundsis a difficult task for both unsupervised and super-vised approaches.
Currently, the best-performingNC interpretation methods in computational lin-guistics focus only on two-word noun compoundsand rely either on rather ad-hoc, domain-specific,hand-coded semantic taxonomies, or on statistical3M: Modifier, H: Headmodels on large collections of unlabeled data.The majority of corpus based statistical ap-proaches to noun compound interpretationcollects statistics on the occurrence frequencyof the noun constituents and uses them in aprobabilistic model (Resnik, 1993; Lauer, 1995;Lapata and Keller, 2004).
Lauer (1995) was thefirst to devise and test an unsupervised probabilis-tic model for noun compound interpretation onGrolier encyclopedia, an 8 million word corpus,based on a set of 8 prepositional paraphrases.
Hisprobabilistic model computes the probability of apreposition p given a noun-noun pair n1-n2 andfinds the most likely prepositional paraphrasep?
= argmaxP (p|n1, n2) (1)However, as Lauer noticed, this model requiresa very large training corpus to estimate theseprobabilities.
Lapata and Keller (2004) showedthat simple unsupervised models applied to thenoun compound interpretation task perform sig-nificantly better when the n-gram frequencies areobtained from the web (accuracy of 55.71% on Al-tavista), rather than from a large standard corpus.Our approach also uses web as a corpus and exam-ines frequency of various preposition paraphrasesof a given NC.
The next section describes our ap-proach.4 ApproachThis section describes our procedure in details.The system is comprised of the following stages:(a) Web search of prepositional paraphrase for En-glish NC; (b) mapping the English preposition tocorresponding Hindi postposition; (c) Evaluationof correct paraphrasing on English side as well asevaluation of translation.4.1 Paraphrase Selection for TranslationBased on the observation from English-Hindi par-allel corpus data that we examined as part of thisproject, we have designed an algorithm to deter-mine whether an English NC is to be translatedas an analytic construct or retained as an NC inHindi.
We used Yahoo search engine to performa simple frequency search for ?M Preposition H?in web corpus for a given input NC.
For example,the paraphrases obtained for the NC ?finance min-ister?
is given in table 2 and frequency of variousparaphrases is shown in the second column:34Paraphrase Web Frequencyminister about finance 2minister from finance 16minister on finance 34300minister for finance 1370000minister with finance 43minister by finance 20minister to finance 508minister in finance 335minister at finance 64minister of finance 5420000Table 2: Frequency of Paraphrases for ?financeminister?
after Web search.In the table we notice that the distribution iswidely varied.
For some paraphrase the count isvery low (minister about finance) while the high-est count is 5420000 for ?minister of finance?.
Thewide distribution is apparent even when the rangeis not that high as shown in following table:Paraphrase Web Frequencyagencies about welfare 1agencies from welfare 16agencies on welfare 64agencies for welfare 707agencies with welfare 34agencies in welfare 299agencies at welfare 0agencies of welfare 92Table 3: Frequency of Paraphrases for ?welfareagencies?
after Web search.During our experiment we have come acrossthree typical cases: (a) No paraphrase is avail-able when searched; (b) Frequency counts of someparaphrases for a given NC is very low and (c) Fre-quency of a number of paraphrases cross a thresh-old limit.
The threshold is set to be mean of allthe frequencies of paraphrases.
Each of such casessignifies something about the data and we buildour translation heuristics based on these observa-tions.
When no paraphrase is found in web corpusfor a given NC, we consider such NCs very close-knit constructions and translate them as nominalcompound in Hindi.
This generally happens whenthe NC is a proper noun or a technical term.
Sim-ilarly when there exists a number of paraphraseseach of those crossing the threshold limit, it indi-cates that the noun components of such NCs canoccur in various contexts and we select the first3 paraphrase as probable paraphrase of NCs.
Forexample, the threshold value for the NC financeminister is: Threshold = 6825288/8 = 853161.The two paraphrases considered as probable para-phrase of this NC is are therefore ?minister of fi-nance?
and ?minister for finance?.
The remain-ing are ignored.
When count of a paraphrase isless than the threshold, they are removed from thedata.
We presume that such low frequency doesnot convey any significance of paraphrase.
On thecontrary, they add to the noise for probability dis-tribution.
For example, all paraphrases of ?ante-lope species?
except ?species of antelope?
is verylow as shown in Table 4.
They are not thereforeconsidered as probable paraphrases.Paraphrase Web Frequencyspecies about antelope 0species from antelope 44species on antelope 98species for antelope 8species with antelope 10species in antelope 9species at antelope 8species of antelope 60600Table 4: Frequency of Paraphrases for antelopespecies after Web search.4.2 Mapping English Preposition to HindiPost-positionThe strategy of mapping English preposition toone Hindi post-position is a crucial one for thepresent task of translation.
The decision is mainlymotivated by a preliminary study of aligned paral-lel corpora of English and Hindi in which we havecome across the distribution of Lauer?s 8 preposi-tions as shown in table 5.The table (Table 5) shows that English preposi-tions are mostly translated into one Hindi postpo-sition except for a few cases such as ?at?, ?with?and ?for?.
The probability of ?on?
getting trans-lating into ?ko?
and ?of?
into ?se?
is very lessand therefore we are ignoring them in our map-ping schema.
The preposition ?at?
can be trans-lated into ?meM?
and ?para?
and both postposi-tions in Hindi can refer to ?location?.
However,the two prepositions ?with?
and ?for?
can be trans-lated into two distinct relations as shown in Ta-ble 5.
From our parallel corpus data, we therefore35Prep Post-Pos Sense Prob.ofkA Possession 0.13ke Possession 0.574kI Possession 0.29se Possession 0.002from se Source .999atmeM Location 0.748par Location .219withse Instrument 0.628ke sAtha Association 0.26onpar Loc./Theme 0.987ko Theme 0.007about ke bAre meM Subj.Matter 0.68in meM Location .999forke lie Beneficiary 0.72ke Possession 0.27Table 5: Mapping of English Preposition to Hindipostposition from alligned English-Hindi parallelcorpora.find that these prepositions are semantically over-loaded from Hindi language perspective.
The rightsense and thereafter the right Hindi correspondentcan be selected in the context.
In the present task,we are selecting the mapping with higher prob-ability.
English Prepositions are mapped to oneHindi Post-position for all cases except for ?at?and ?about?.Preposition Postpositionof kA/kI/keon parafor ke liyeat para/meMin meMfrom sewith ke sAthaaboutke bAre meMke viSaya meMke sambaMdhiTable 6: Preposition-Postposition MappingPost-positions in Hindi can be multi-word as in?ke bAre meM?, ?ke liye?
and so on.
In the presentpaper we are translating the English preposition tothe mostly probable postposition of Hindi.
Thatdoes not mean that the preposition cannot be trans-lated into any other postposition.
However, we aretaking the aforementioned stand as an preliminaryexperiment and further refinement in terms of se-lection of postposition will be done as future work.For the present study, lexical substitution of headnoun and modifier noun are presumed to be cor-rect.5 Result and AnalysisIn this section we will describe results of twosteps that are involved in our work: (a) Selectionof English preposition paraphrase for a given En-glish NC; (b) Translation of English Preposition toHindi Post-position.For a given NC we used a brute force methodto find the paraphrase structure.
We used Lauer?sprepositions (of, in, about, for, with, at, on, from,to, by) for prepositional paraphrasing.
Web searchis done on all paraphrases and frequency countsare retrieved.
Mean frequency (F) is calculated us-ing all frequencies retrieved.
All those paraphrasesthat give frequency more than F are selected.
Wefirst tested the algorithm on 250 test data of ourselection.
The result of the top three paraphrasesare given below :Selection Technique PrecisionTop 1 61.6%Top 2 67.20%Top 3 71.6%Table 7: Paraphrasing AccuracyWe have also tested the algorithm on Lauer?stest data (first 218 compounds out 400 of NCs)and got the following results (Table 8).
Each ofthe test data was marked with a preposition whichbest explained the relationship between two nouncomponents.
Lauer gives X for compounds whichcannot be paraphrased by using prepositions Foreg.
tuna fish.Prep OLauer OCI PercentageOf 54 37 68.50%For 42 20 47.62%In 24 9 37.50%On 6 2 33.33%Table 8: Distribution of Preposition on Lauer testdata of 218 NCOLauer : Number of occurrence of each prepo-sition in Lauer test data36OCI : Number of correctly identified prepositionby our methodIn Table 9 we compare our result with that ofLauer?s on his data.
We gave the results with cri-teria: 1) only ?N prep N?
is considered.
2) Non-Prepositions (X) are also considered.Case Our Method Lauer?sN-prep-N 43.67% 39.87%All 42.2% 28.8%Table 9: Comparison of our approach with Lauer?sApproachNow that we have paraphrased NCs, we attemptto translate the output into Hindi.
We assume thatwe have the right lexical substitution.
In this pa-per we have checked for the accuracy of the rightHindi construction selection.For a given NC we got the paraphrase as ?Hprep M?
or ?MH?.
We use English prepositionmapping as described in section 4.2 for translat-ing NC in Hindi.
For MH type compounds di-rect lexical substitution is tried out.
We tested ourapproach on the gold data of 250 Nominal Com-pounds.
We translate the same 250 NCs usinggoogle translation system in order to set up a base-line.
Google Translator could translate the datawith 68.8% accuracy.Google returns only one translation which weevaluated against our test data.
In our case, wehave taken 3 top paraphrases as described in sec-tion 4.1 and translated them into Hindi by usingthe English preposition to Hindi postposition map-ping schema.
The following table presents theaccuracy of the translation of the top three para-phrasesCase PrecisionTop 1 61.6%Top 2 68.4%Top 3 70.8%Table 10: Translation AccuracyIn this work we have not considered the contextof English NC while translating them into Hindi.Table 11 gives the accuracy of each post-positionas translated from English preposition.The other prepositions have occurred very lessin number and therefore not given in the table.Preposition Post Position AccuracyOf kA/ke/kI 94.3%For ke liye 72.2%In meM 42.9%Table 11: Translation Accuracy for some individ-ual prepositions6 Conclusion and Future WorkThis paper describes a preliminary approach fortranslating English nominal compound into Hindiusing paraphrasing as a method of analysis ofsource data.
The result of translation is encourag-ing as a first step towards this kind of work.
Thiswork finds out a useful application for the taskof paraphrasing nominal compound using prepo-sition.
The next step of experiment includes thefollowing tasks: (a) Designing the test data in sucha way that all correspondents get equal represen-tation in the data.
(b) To examine if there are anyother prepositions (besides Lauer?s 8 preposition)which can be used for paraphrasing (c) To use con-text for translation.ReferencesGildea.
D. and Jurafsky.
D. 2002.
Automatic labelingof semantic roles, Computational Linguistics 28 (3),245-288.Lapata, M. and Keller, F. 2004.
The Web as a baseline:evaluating the performance of unsupervised Web-based models for a range of NLP tasks.
In: Pro-ceedings of the Human Language Technology con-ference (HLT/NAACL), Boston, MA, pp.
121-128.Lauer, M. 1995 Designing statistical language learn-ers: experiments on noun compounds, Ph.D. Thesis,Macquarie University, AustraliaMoldovan, D. and Girju, R. 2003 Knowledge discov-ery from text In: The Tutorial Proceedings of the41st Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (ACL), Sapporo, Japan.Mathur, P. and Paul, S. 2009 Automatic Translation ofNominal Compound into Hindi.
In: Proceedings ofInternational Conference on Natural Language Pro-cessing (ICON), HyderabadMoldovan, D., Girju, R., Tatu, M., and Antohe, D.2005 On the semantics of noun compounds Com-puter Speech & Language 19(4): 479-496Girju, R. 2009 The Syntax and Semantics of Preposi-tions in the Task of Automatic Interpretation of Nom-inal Phrases and Compounds: A Cross-LinguisticStudy Computational Linguistics 35(2): 185-22837Vanderwende, L. 1995 The analysis of noun sequencesusing semantic information extracted from on-linedictionaries Ph.D. Dissertation, Georgetown Uni-versity.Barker, K. and Szpakowicz, S. 1998 Semi-automaticrecognition of noun modifier relationships In Proc.of the 36th Annual Meeting of the ACL and 17th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics (COLING/ACL-98) , pages 96-102, Montreal,Canada.Finin, T.W.
1980 The semantic interpretation of nom-inal compounds In Proc.
of the 1st Conference onArtificial Intelligence (AAAI-80), 1980.Isabelle, P. 1984 Another look at nominal com-pounds In Proc.
of the 10th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics (COLING ?84),Stanford, USA, 1984.Kim, S.N.
and Baldwin, T. 2005 Automatic Interpreta-tion of Noun Compounds Using WordNet SimilarityIJCNLP 2005:945-956Rackow, U., Dagan, I. and Schwall, U.
1992 Auto-matic translation of noun compounds In Proc.
ofthe 14th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING ?92), Nantes, Frances, 199238
