Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 130?131,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Distinctive Features of Swine (H1N1) Flu through DataMining Clinical DocumentsHeekyong ParkDepartment of Biomedical Engineering,Seoul National UniversitySeoul, South Korea.care01@snu.ac.krJinwook Choi, MD, PhDDepartment of Biomedical Engineering,Seoul National UniversitySeoul, South Korea.jinchoi@snu.ac.krAbstractEarly recognition of distinguishing pat-terns of a novel pandemic disease is im-portant.
We introduce a methodologicalapproach based on popular data miningtechniques to extract key features andtemporal patterns of swine (h1n1) flu thatis discriminated from swine flu likesymptoms.1 IntroductionEarly recognition of a novel pandemic is desira-ble to minimize its dissemination.
However, itusually spends some time in developing a diag-nostic test and people tend to omit the test forvarious reasons including cost, which leads tolate recognition.
Under these circumstances,symptoms and signs in clinical documents mightbe valuable indicators to have a population pers-pective on pandemic severity.In this paper, we propose a methodologicalapproach to extract features of swine(h1n1) fludistinctive to swine flu like patients?
one.2  Method2.1 DataWe randomly selected twenty clinical docu-ments from first visit records of patients who hadvisited emergency room in Seoul National Uni-versity Hospital (SNUH) with suspected case ofswine flu.
Ten of the documents are RT-PCR testpositive cases, which mean that the patient isswine flu infected patient, while the ten remain-ing documents are RT-PCR negative cases.
Eachdocument contains a patient?s symptoms, obser-vations, recent clinical histories, clinical plans,and diagnoses in natural language.
The symp-toms are mostly about upper respiratory infectionrelated ones but some of the sample documentsdescribe about ones related to other diseases.2.2 HypothesesWe hypothesized two things as follows.
1) Wewill be able to extract distinctive symptom setbetween swine flu and swine-flu like patients byadopting apriori association rule mining method.2) Although the two target groups accompanysimilar symptoms, we will be able to make se-lected symptoms more discriminative by devel-oping impact score and considering temporalaspects, development rate.2.3  Distinguishing Symptoms ExtractionWe modeled each clinical document as one (tag,item1, ?, itemn) transaction of which tag anditems indicate RT-PCR result and candidate fea-tures, respectively.
We set symptoms, signs, tra-vel, and contact information as candidate fea-tures.
We divided target data into three groups(Table 1) and ran apriori association rule algo-rithm to produce rules associated with RT-PCR(+) or RT-PCR(-) cases.
Then the items ap-peared in association rules are collected.
Theitems are grouped into four sets according totheir original rules and training data (Table 2).The union of Ipos and Ipos_co was regarded as adistinguishing feature set, If.
To enhance discrim-ination ability, we used some weights to scorethem as shown in Table 2 and 3.Input data set DescriptionData 1 10 h1n1 positive transactionsData 2 10 h1n1 negative transactionsData 3 10 h1n1 positive transactions+ 10 h1n1 negative transactionsTable 1.
Input data1302.4 Disease Development Pattern AnalysisWe extracted temporal information of selectedfeatures in sample documents and modeled asinterval constraints.
We ran Floyd-Warshall?sall-pairs-shortest path algorithm to get hiddentemporal relationships between two features.
Wetraced start time gaps of the features to comparetemporal patterns of the development rate of ex-ternal indicators between two data sets, Data1and Data2.3 ResultFor input data, we produced transactions and ini-tial temporal constraint network manually.
Weextracted distinctive feature set, applied our scor-ing method, and compared temporal aspects.We limited support value threshold as 30% forIpos and Ineg and 0% for Ipos_co and Ineg_codue to small data size.
Eight signs and symptomsas well as travel information were extracted from47 items as distinguishing features of swine flu(Table 3).
Besides sputum, pharynx injection,cvat, and travel information, five symptoms arethe ones contained in the latest Centers for Dis-ease Control (CDC) H1N1 influenza case reportform.
The others are strong indicators as well.The previous version of the CDC form containssputum in the signs and symptoms section, andHimmerick (2009) described that pharyngealinjection is a clinical sign of uncomplicatedswine-origin influenza A.
Travel information isanother important factor to diagnose an h1n1case in Korea and included in a special purposeh1n1 clinical document format in SNUH emer-gency department.We compared start time of the features butcould not find any differences.
The symptomshad been developed so rapidly that temporal pat-tern comparison between two groups was notmeaningful.
All the selected symptoms were de-veloped within three days, and moreover, thesymptoms in twelve documents were occurred inone day.
As our data usually describes occur-rence time in day granularity and the sample sizeis too small, we could not compare the featuresin finer granularity.4 Conclusion and DiscussionIn this paper, we tried to establish a methodolog-ical approach to extract distinctive features of anovel pandemic on the early symptoms expe-rienced by the patients.
We applied popular datamining techniques to swine flu suspected cases.The results correspond to outputs of previousspecialized medical domain research.
We couldget valuable information with extremely smallamount of data.
This methodological approachcould be used usefully in novel infectious diseasemanagement and research to prevent spreadingof the pandemic at the very beginning stage.AcknowledgementThis work was supported by the Korea Scienceand Engineering Foundation (KOSEF) grantfunded by the Korea government(MEST) (No.2009-0090853).ReferencesKristine A. Himmerick.
H1N1 in perspective: Theclinical impact of a novel influenza A virus.JAAPA CME articles.
December 01, 2009Features Ipos Ipos_co Ineg Ineg_co scoreDyspnea O O     9PharyngealinjectionO O     9Sore throat O O   O 7Travel O O   O 7Cough O O O O 6Fever O O O O 6Sputum O O O O 6Cvat (cos-tovertebralangle ten-derness)O     5Rhinorrhea  O     5Table 3.
Distinctive feature set(If) of h1n1cases accompanied with impact scoresInput data Association rule descendant Unique item set in association rules WeightData 1 H1n1 (+)  Ipos   4Data 3 H1n1 (+) Ipos_co  5Data 2 H1n1 (-) Ineg -1Data 3 H1n1 (-) Ineg_co -2* Subscript pos means the items are selected from h1n1(+) association rules (e.g., pos <- fever cough dyspnea) and negmeans opposite cases (e.g., neg <- myalgia chilling fever).
co indicates the items are selected from rules with h1n1(+)and h1n1(-) cases mixed training data (Data 3).Table 2.
Feature sets and weights131
