Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics, ACL 2010, pages 18?26,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsIs there syntactic adaptation in language comprehension?Alex B.
Fine, Ting Qian, T. Florian Jaeger and Robert A. JacobsDepartment of Brain and Cognitive SciencesUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY, USA{afine, tqian, fjaeger, robbie}@bcs.rochester.eduAbstractIn this paper we investigate the manner inwhich the human language comprehensionsystem adapts to shifts in probability dis-tributions over syntactic structures, givenexperimentally controlled experience withthose structures.
We replicate a classicreading experiment, and present a modelof the behavioral data that implements aform of Bayesian belief update over thecourse of the experiment.1 IntroductionOne of the central insights to emerge from ex-perimental psycholinguistics over the last halfcentury is that human language comprehensionand production are probability-sensitive.
Dur-ing language comprehension, language users ex-ploit probabilistic information in the linguistic sig-nal to make inferences about the speaker?s mostlikely intended message.
In syntactic compre-hension specifically, comprehenders exploit statis-tical information about lexical and syntactic co-occurrence statistics.
For instance, (1) is temporar-ily ambiguous at the noun phrase the study, sincethe NP can be parsed as either the direct object(DO) of the verb acknowledge or as the subjectNP of a sentence complement (SC).
(1) The reviewers acknowledged the study...?
DO: ... in the journal.?
SC: ... had been revolutionary.The ambiguity in the SC continuation is resolvedat had been, which rules out the direct object in-terpretation of the study.
Reading times at hadbeen?the so-called point of disambiguation?arecorrelated with a variety of lexical-syntactic prob-abilities.
For instance, if the probability of a SCis low, given the verb, subjects are garden-pathedand will display longer reading times at had been.Conversely, if the probability of a SC is high, thematerial at the point of disambiguation is rela-tively unsurprising (i.e.
conveys less information),and reading times will be short.
Readers are alsosensitive to the probability of the post-verbal NPoccurring as the direct object of the verb.
This isoften discussed in terms of plausibility?in (1), thestudy is a plausible direct object of acknowledge(relative to, say, the window), which will also con-tribute to longer reading times in the event of a SCcontinuation (Garnsey et al, 1997).Thus, humans make pervasive use of proba-bilistic cues in the linguistic signal.
A questionthat has received very little attention, however, ishow language users maintain or update their rep-resentations of the probability distributions rele-vant to language use, given new evidence?a phe-nomenon we will call adaptation.
That is, whilewe know that language users have access to lin-guistic statistics, we know little about the dynam-ics of this knowledge in language users: is theprobabilistic information relevant to comprehen-sion derived from experience during a critical pe-riod of language acquisition, or do comprehendersupdate their knowledge on the basis of experiencethroughout adulthood?
A priori, both scenariosseem plausible?given the sheer number of cuesrelevant to comprehension, it would be advanta-geous to limit the resources devoted to acquiringthis knowledge; on the other hand, any learner?slinguistic experience is bound to be incomplete, sothe ability to adapt to novel distributional patternsin the linguistic input may prove to be equally use-ful.
The goal of this paper is to explore this is-sue and to take an initial step toward providing acomputational framework for characterizing adap-tation in language processing.1.1 Adaptation in Sentence ComprehensionBoth over time and across situations, humans areexposed to linguistic evidence that, in principle,18ought to lead to shifts in our representations of therelevant probability distributions.
An efficient lan-guage processing system is expected to take newevidence into account so that behavior (decisionsduring online production, predictions about up-coming words, etc.)
will be guided by accurate es-timates of these probability distributions.
At leastat the level of phonetic perception and produc-tion, there is evidence that language users quicklyadapt to the statistical characteristics of the am-bient language.
For instance, over the course ofa single interaction, the speech of two interlocu-tors becomes more acoustically similar, a phe-nomenon known as spontaneous phonetic imita-tion (Goldinger, 1998).
Perhaps even more strik-ingly, Clayards et al (2008) demonstrated that,given a relatively small number of tokens, compre-henders shift the degree to which they rely on anacoustic cue as the variance of that cue changes,reflecting adaptation to the distributions of proba-bilistic cues in speech perception.At the level of syntactic processing, belief up-date/adaptation has only recently been addressed(Wells et al, 2009; Snider and Jaeger, in prep).
Inthis study, we examine adaptation at the level ofsyntactic comprehension.
We provide a computa-tional model of short- to medium-term adaptationto local shifts in the statistics of the input.
Whilethe Bayesian model presented can account for thebehavioral data, the quality of the model dependson how control variables are treated.
We discussthe theoretical and methodological implications ofthis result.Section 2 describes the behavioral experiment,a slight modification of the classic reading experi-ment reported in Garnsey et al (1997).
The studyreported in section 3 replicates the basic findingsof (Garnsey et al, 1997).
In sections 4 and 5we outline a Bayesian model of syntactic adapta-tion, in which distributions over syntactic struc-tures are updated at each trial based on the ev-idence in that trial, and discuss the relationshipbetween the model results and control variables.Section 6 concludes.2 Behavioral Experiment2.1 ParticipantsForty-six members of the university communityparticipated in a self-paced reading study for pay-ment.
All were native speakers of English withnormal or corrected to normal vision, based onself-report.2.2 MaterialsSubjects read a total of 98 sentences, of which 36were critical items containing DO/SC ambiguities,as in (1).
These 36 sentences comprise a subset ofthose used in Garnsey et al (1997).
The stim-uli were manipulated along two dimensions: first,verbs were chosen such that the conditional prob-ability of a SC, given the verb, varied.
In Garnseyet al (1997), this conditional probability was es-timated from a norming study, in which subjectscompleted sentence fragments containing DO/SCverbs (e.g.
the lawyer acknowledged...).
We adoptstandard psycholinguistic terminology and referto this conditional probability as SC-bias.
Theverbs used in the critical sentences in Garnsey etal.
(1997) were selected to span a wide range ofSC-bias values, from .01 to .9.
Each sentence con-tained a different DO/SC verb.
In addition to SC-bias, half of the sentences presented to each sub-ject included the complementizer that, as in (2).
(2) The reviewers acknowledged that thestudy had been revolutionary.Sentences with a complementizer were includedas an unambiguous baseline (Garnsey et al 1997).The presence of a complementizer was counter-balanced, such that each subject saw half of thesentences with a complementizer and all sen-tences occurred with and without a complemen-tizer equally often across subjects.
All of the criti-cal sentences contained a SC continuation.
The 36critical items were interleaved with 72 fillers thatincluded simple transitives and intransitives.2.3 ProcedureSubjects read critical and filler sentences in a self-paced moving window display (Just et al, 1982),presented using the Linger experimental presen-tation software (Rohde, 2005).
Sentences werepresented in a noncumulative word-by-word self-paced moving window.
At the beginning of eachtrial, the sentence appeared on the screen with allnon-space characters replaced by a dash.
Usingtheir dominant hands, subjects pressed the spacebar to view each consecutive word in the sen-tence.
Durations between space bar presses wererecorded.
At each press of the space bar, thecurrently-viewed word reverted to dashes as thenext word was converted to letters.
A yes/no com-19prehension question followed all experimental andfiller sentences.2.4 AnalysisIn keeping with standard procedure, we usedlength-corrected residual per-word reading timesas our dependent measure.
Following Garnsey etal.
(1997), we define the point of disambiguationin the critical sentences as the two words follow-ing the post-verbal NP (e.g.
had been in (1) and(2)).
All analyses reported here were conducted onresidual reading times at this region.
For a givensubject, residual reading times more than two stan-dard deviations from that subject?s mean residualreading time were excluded.3 Study 1Residual reading times at the point of disambigua-tion were fit to a linear mixed effects regressionmodel.
This model included the full factorial de-sign (i.e.
all main effects and all interactions) oflogged SC-bias (taken from the norming study re-ported in Garnsey et al 1997) and complemen-tizer presence.
Additionally, the model includedrandom intercepts of subject and item.
This wasthe maximum random effect structure justified bythe data, based on comparison against more com-plex models.1 All predictors in the model werecentered at zero in order to reduce collinearity.P-values reported in all subsequent models werecalculated using MCMC sampling (where N =10,000).3.1 ResultsThis model replicated the findings reported byGarnsey et al (1997).
There was a significantmain effect of complementizer presence (?
=?3.2, t = ?2.5, p < .05)?reading times atthe point of disambiguation were lower whenthe complementizer was present.
Additionally,there was a significant two-way interaction be-tween complementizer presence and logged SC-bias (?
= 3.0, t = 2.5, p < .05)?SC-bias has astronger negative correlation with reading times inthe disambiguating region when the complemen-tizer is absent, as expected.
Additionally, Gar-nsey et al (1997) found a main effect of SC-bias.For us, this main effect did not reach significance1For a detailed description of the procedure used,see http://hlplab.wordpress.com/2009/05/14/random-effect-should-i-stay-or-should-i-go/(?
= ?1.2, t = ?1.11, p = .5), possibly owing tothe fact that we tested a much smaller sample thanGarnsey et al (1997) (51 compared to 82 partici-pants).4 Study 2: Bayesian SyntacticAdaptationReading times at the point of disambiguation inthese stimuli reflect, among other things, sub-jects?
estimates of the conditional probabilityp(SC|verb) (Garnsey et al 1997), which we havebeen calling SC-bias.
Thus, we model the task fac-ing subjects in this experiment as one of Bayesianinference, where subjects are, when reading a sen-tence containing the verb vi, inferring a posteriorprobability P(SC|vi), i.e.
the probability that asentence complement clause will follow a verb vi.According to Bayes rule, we have:p(SC|vi) =p(vi|SC)p(SC)p(vi)(1)In Equation (1), we use the relative frequencyof vi (estimated from the British National Corpus)as the estimate for p(vi).
The first term in the nu-merator, p(vi|SC), is the likelihood, which we es-timate by using the relative frequency of vi amongall verbs that can take a sentence complement astheir argument.
These values are taken from thecorpus study by Roland et al (2007).
Roland et al(2007) report, among other things, the number oftimes a SC occurs as the argument of roughly 200English verbs.
These values are reported across anumber of corpora.
We use the values from theBNC to compute p(vi|SC).The prior probability of a sentence complementclause, p(SC), is the estimate of interest in thisstudy.
We hypothesize that, under the assumptionsof the current model, subjects update their esti-mate for p(SC) based on the evidence presentedin each trial.
As a result, the posterior probabilityvaries from trial to trial, not only because the verbused in each stimulus is different, but also becausethe belief about the probability of a sentence com-plement is being updated based on the evidence ineach trial.
We employ the beta-binomial model tosimulate this updating process, as described next.4.1 Belief UpdateWe adopt an online training paradigm involvingan ideal observer learning from observations.
Af-ter observing a sentence containing a DO/SC verb,20we predict that subjects will update both the likeli-hood p(vi|SC) for that verb, as well as the proba-bility p(SC).
Because each verb occurs only oncefor a given subject, the effect of updating the firstquantity is impossible to measure in the current ex-perimental paradigm.
We therefore focus on mod-eling how subjects update their belief of p(SC)from trial to trial.We make the simplifying assumption that theonly possible argument that DO/SC verbs can takeis either a direct object or a sentence complementclause.
Further, subjects are assumed to have aninitial belief about how probable a sentence com-plement is, on a scale of 0 to 1.
Let ?
denotethis probability estimate, and p(?)
the strength ofthis estimate.
From the perspective of an idealobserver, p(?)
will go up for ?
> 0.5 when aDO/SC verb is presented with a sentence comple-ment as its argument.
This framework assumesthat subjects do not compute ?
by merely relyingon frequency (otherwise, ?
will be simply the ra-tio between SC and DO structures in a block oftrials), but they have a distribution P (?
), whereeach possible estimate of ?
is associated with aprobability indicating the confidence on that es-timate.
In order to make our results comparableto existing models, however, we use the expectedvalue of P (?)
in each iteration of training as pointestimates.
Therefore, for one subject, we have36 estimated ??
values, each corresponding to thechanged belief after seeing a sentence containingSC in an experiment of 36 trials.
Because noneof the filler items included DO/SC verbs, we as-sume that filler trials have no effect on subjects?estimates of P (?
).Since all stimuli in our experiment have the SCstructure, the general expectation is the distribu-tion P (?)
will shift towards the end where ?
= 1.Our belief update model tries to capture the shapeof this shift during the course of the experiment.Using Bayesian inference, we can describe the up-dating process as the following, where ?i repre-sents a particular belief of the value ?.p(?
= ?i|obs.)
=p(obs.|?
= ?i)p(?
= ?i)p(obs.
)= p(obs.|?
= ?i)p(?
= ?i)?
10p(obs.|?)p(?)
d?
(2)This posterior probability is hypothesized to re-flect how likely a subject would consider the prob-ability of SC to be ?i after being exposed to oneexperimental item.
We discretized ?
to 100 evenlyspaced ?i values, ranging from 0 to 1.
Thus, thedenominator can be calculated by marginalizingover the 100 ?i values.
The two terms in the nu-merator in Equation (2) are estimated in the fol-lowing manner.Likelihood function p(obs.|?
= ?i) is modeledby a binomial distribution, where the parametersare ?i (the probability of observing a SC clause)and 1 ?
?i (the probability of observing a directobject), and where the outcome is the experimen-tal item presented to the subject.
Therefore:p(obs.|?
= ?i) =(nsc + ndo)!nsc!ndo!
?nsci (1?
?i)ndo(3)In the current experiment, ndo is always 0 sinceall stimuli contain the SC argument.
In addition,between-trial reading time differences are mod-elled at one item a step for each subject so that nscis always 1 in each trial.
It is in theory possible toset nsc to other numbers.The prior In online training, the posterior of theprevious iteration is used as the prior for the cur-rent one.
Nevertheless, the prior p(?
= ?i) forthe very first iteration of training needs to be es-timated.
Here we assume a beta distribution withparameters ?
and ?.
The probability of the priorthen is:p(?
= ?i) =??
?1i (1?
?i)??1B(?,?
)Intuitively, ?
and ?
capture the number of timessubjects have observed the SC and DO outcomes,respectively, before the experiment.
In the contextof our research, this model assumes that subjects?beliefs about p(SC) and p(DO) are based on ?
?1observations of SC and ?
?
1 observations of DOprior to the experiment.The values of the parameters of the beta distri-bution were obtained by searching through the pa-rameter space with an objective function based onthe Bayesian information criterion (BIC) score ofa regression model containing the log of the pos-terior computed using the updated prior p(SC),complementizer presence, and the two-way inter-action.
The BIC (Schwarz, 1978) is a measureof model quality that weighs the models empiricalcoverage against its parsimony (BIC = 2ln(L)+21k ?
ln(n), where k is the number of parameters inthe model, n the number of data points, and L isthe models data likelihood).
Smaller BIC indicatebetter models.
The ?
and ?
values yielding thelowest BIC score are used.In estimating ?
and ?, we considered all pairs ofnon-negative integers such that both values werebelow 1000.
The values of ?
and ?
used here were1 and 177, respectively.
These values do not im-ply that subjects have seen only 1 SC and 177 DOsprior to the experiment, but that only this many ob-servations inform subjects?
prior beliefs about thisdistribution.
The relationship between the choiceof the parameters of the beta distribution, ?
and?, and the BIC of the model used in the parameterestimation is shown in Figure 1.BetaAlphaBICFigure 1: The relationship between the BIC of themodel used in the parameter estimation step andvalues of ?
and ?
in the beta distributionBecause we model subjects?
estimates ofp(SC|vi) in terms of Bayesian inference, with acontinuously updated prior, p(SC), the value ofp(SC|vi) depends, in our model, on both verb-specific statistics (i.e.
the likelihood p(vi|SC) andthe probability of the verb p(vi)) and the point inthe experiment at which the trial containing thatverb is encountered.
We can visualize this rela-tionship in Figure 2, which shows the values givenby the model of p(SC|vi) for four particular dif-ferent verbs, depending on the point in the experi-ment at which the verb is seen.The approach we take is hence fundamentallyPresentation OrderPosterior p(SC|v)0.20.40.60.80 10 20 30confide denyknow0 10 20 300.20.40.60.8printFigure 2: The relationship, for four of the verbs,between the value of p(SC|vi) given by the modelas a function of when in the experiment vi is en-countereddifferent from the approach commonly taken inpsycholinguistics, which is to use static estimatesof quantities such as p(SC|vi) derived from cor-pora or norming studies.4.2 AnalysisTo test whether the model-derived values ofp(SC|vi) are a good fit for the behavioral data,we fit residual reading times at the point of dis-ambiguation using linear mixed effects regression.The model included main effects of p(SC|vi)?asgiven by the model just described?and comple-mentizer presence, as well as the two-way inter-action between these two predictors.
Additionally,there were random intercepts of subject and item.p(SC|vi) was logged and centered at zero.4.3 ResultsThere was a highly significant main effect ofthe posterior probability p(SC|vi) yielded by thebeta-binomial model (?
= ?40, t = ?21.2, p <.001), as well as a main effect of complemen-tizer presence (?4.5, t = ?3.7, p < .001).The two-way interaction between complementizerpresence and the posterior probability from thebeta-binomial model did not reach significance(?
= 0.5, t = .5, p > .05).
The reason is likelythat, in the analysis presented for Study 1, we caninterpret the interaction as indicating that when22SC-bias is high, the complementizer has less ofan effect; in our model, the posterior probabil-ity p(SC|vi) is both generally higher and has lessvariance than the same quantity when based oncorpus- or norming study estimates, since the priorprobability p(SC) is continuously increasing overthe course of the experiment.
This would have theeffect of eliminating or at least obscuring the in-teraction with complementizer presence.The posterior p(SC|vi) has a much strongernegative correlation with residual reading timesthan the measure of SC-bias used in Study 1 (?
=?40 as opposed to ?
= ?1.2).4.4 DiscussionSo far, we have replicated a classic finding in thesentence processing literature (Study 1), providedevidence that subjects?
estimates of the conditionalprobability p(SC|vi) change based on evidencethroughout the experiment, and that this processis captured well by a model which implements aform of incremental Bayesian belief update.
Wetake this as evidence that the language comprehen-sion system is adaptive, in the sense that languageusers continually update their estimates of proba-bility distributions over syntactic structures.5 Syntactic Adaptation vs. MotorAdaptationThe results of the model presented in section 4are amenable to (at least) two explanations.
Wehave hypothesized that, given exposure to new ev-idence about probability distributions over syn-tactic structures in English, subjects update theirbeliefs about these probability distributions, re-flected in reading times?a phenomenon we referto as syntactic adaptation.
An alternative explana-tion, however, is one that appeals to motor adap-tation, rather than syntactic adaptation.
Specifi-cally, it could be that subjects are simply adapt-ing to the task?rather than to changes in syntacticdistributions?as the experiment proceeds, lead-ing to faster reading times.We expect the effect of motor adaptation tobe captured by presentation order, or the pointin the experiment at which subjects encounter agiven stimulus.
In particular, we predict a neg-ative correlation between presentation order andreading times.
Unfortunately, in the current ex-periment, presentation order and p(SC|vi) derivedfrom the Beta-binomial model are positively cor-related (r = .6)?the latter increases with increas-ing presentation order, since participants only seeSC continuations.
The results we observed abovecould hence also be due to an effect of presentationorder.The expected shape of a possible effect of taskadaptation is not obvious.
That is, it is not clearwhether the relationship between presentation or-der and reading times will be linear.
On the onehand, linearity would be the default assumptionprior to theoretical considerations about the dis-tributional properties of presentation order.
Onthe other hand, presentation order is a lower-bounded variable, which often are distributed ap-proximately log-normally.
Additionally, it is pos-sible that there may be a floor effect: participantsmay get used to having to press the space bar to ad-vance to the next word and may quickly get fasterat that procedure until RTs converge against theminimal time it takes to program the motor move-ment to press the space bar.
Such an effect wouldlikely lead to an approximately log-linear effect ofpresentation order.We test for an effect of motor adaptation by ex-amining the effect of presentation order on read-ing times, comparing the effect of linear and log-transformed presentation order.5.1 Controlling for Presentation Order in theBeta-binomial modelWe test for separate effects of syntactic adaptationand motor adaptation by conducting stepwise re-gressions with two models containing the full fac-torial design of the Beta-binomial posterior, com-plementizer presence, and, for the first model, alinear effect of presentation order and, for thesecond model, log-transformed presentation order.We conducted stepwise regressions using back-ward elimination, starting with all predictors andremoving non-significant predictors (i.e.
p > .1),one at a time, until all non-significant predictorsare deleted.For both the model including a linear effectof presentation order and a model including log-transformed presentation order, the final mod-els resulting from the stepwise regression proce-dure included only main effects of complemen-tizer presence and log presentation order.
Thesemodels are summarized in Figure 1, which in-cludes coefficient-based tests for significance ofeach of the predictors (i.e.
whether the coefficient23is significantly different from zero) as well as ?2-based tests for significance (i.e.
the difference be-tween a model with that predictor and one with-out).
Comparing the two resulting models basedon the Bayesian Information Criterion, the modelcontaining log-transformed presentation order is abetter model than one with a linear effect of pre-sentation order (BIClog = 37467; BICnon?log =37510).Pres.
order untransformedCoef.
and ?2-based testsPredictor ?
p ?2 pComp.
pres.
?4.3 < .05 4.9 < .05Pres.
order ?.7 < .001 28.2 < .001Pres.
order log-transformedCoef.
and ?2-based testsPredictor ?
p ?2 pComp.
pres.
?4.3 < .05 4.8 < .05Pres.
order ?33.8 < .001 29.4 < .001Table 1: Coefficient- and ?2-based tests for sig-nificance of model resulting from stepwise regres-sionIn sum, the beta-binomial derived posterior ap-pears to have no predictive power after presenta-tion order is controlled for.
This result does notdepend on how presentation order is treated (i.e.log-transformed or not).5.2 The interaction between SC-bias andpresentation orderThe results from the previous section suggest thatthe Beta-binomial derived posterior carries no pre-dictive power after presentation order is controlledfor.
Is there any evidence at all for syntactic adap-tation (as opposed to motor, or task, adaptation)?To attempt to answer this, we analyzed the read-ing data using the model reported in section 3,with an additional main effect of presentation or-der, as well as the interactions between presenta-tion order and the other predictors in the model.An overall decrease in reading times due to mo-tor adaptation should surface as a main effect ofpresentation order, as mentioned; syntactic adap-tation, however, is predicted to show up as a two-way interaction between SC-bias and presentationorder?since subjects only see SC continuations,subjects should expect this outcome to becomemore and more probable over the course of the ex-periment, causing the correlation between SC-biasand reading times to become weaker (thus we pre-dict the interaction to have a positive coefficient).To test for such an interaction, we performeda stepwise regressions with two models contain-ing the full factorial design of SC-bias, comple-mentizer presence, and, for the first model, a lin-ear effect of presentation order and, for the secondmodel, log-transformed presentation order.
Thestepwise regression procedure here was identicalto the one reported in the previous section.For both models, the remaining predictors weremain effects of presentation order, complemen-tizer presence, and SC-bias, as well as a two-wayinteraction between SC-bias and complementizerpresence and a two-way interaction between SC-bias and presentation order.
The results of thesemodels are given in Table 2.Pres.
order untransformedCoef.
and ?2-based testsPredictor ?
p ?2 pSC-bias ?.4 = .8 11.5 < .001Comp.
pres.
?4.4 < .001 18.1 < .001Pres.
order ?.9 < .001 420.9 < .001SC-bias:Comp.
2.6 < .05 5.3 < .05SC-bias:Pres.
Order .1 < .05 6.2 < .05Pres.
order log-transformedCoef.
and ?2-based testsPredictor ?
p ?2 pSC-bias ?1.4 = .5 8.9 < .05Comp.
pres.
?4.6 < .001 19.3 < .001Pres.
order ?42.4 < .001 461.2 < .001SC-bias:Comp.
2.6 < .05 5.2 < .05SC-bias:Pres.
Order 3.5 = .06 3.4 = .06Table 2: Coefficient- and ?2-based tests for sig-nificance of model resulting from stepwise regres-sionThe main findings reported in Study 1 (i.e.
amain effect of complementizer presence and atwo-way interaction between SC-bias and com-plementizer presence) are replicated here, and donot depend on whether presentation order is log-transformed.
However, the interaction betweenSC-bias and presentation order is less reliablewhen presentation order is log-transformed, reach-ing only marginal significance.
In short, an ad-equate account of the data requires reference toboth motor adaptation (in the form of a main effectof presentation order, log-transformed) and syn-tactic adaptation.If subjects are improving at the task, and theeffect of presentation order represents a kind ofadaptation to the task of self-paced reading, wewould expect to find a main effect of presenta-tion order on reading times at all regions.
This24is the case?a strong negative correlation betweenpresentation order and reading times holds acrossall regions.
Evidence that the observed interac-tion is due to syntactic belief update comes fromthe fact that the interaction between SC-bias andpresentation order, unlike the main effect of pre-sentation order, is limited to the disambiguatingregion of the sentence.
We performed the regres-sion reported above on residual reading times atthe main verb (e.g.
acknowledge), ambiguous (e.g.the study), and disambiguating (e.g.
had been) re-gions.
These analyses revealed, as expected, maineffects of presentation order across all regions.
Atthe verb and ambiguous regions, however, presen-tation order did not interact with SC-bias.Region ?
p?
valueMain effect of pres.
orderVerb ?.95 < .001Ambig.
region ?.9 < .001Disambig.
region ?.9 < .001Pres.
order X SC-bias interactionVerb .09 = .24Ambig.
region .04 = .37Disambig.
region .1 < .05Table 3: Main effect of presentation order and in-teraction of presentation order with SC-bias at dif-ferent regions in the critical sentencesThis finding provides initial evidence that sub-jects adapt their linguistic expectations to the evi-dence observed throughout the experiment.
How-ever, the interaction between presentation orderand SC-bias in this analysis is amenable to an al-ternative interpretation: interactions between pre-sentation order and other variables could emergeif subjects?
reaction times reach some minimumvalue over the course of the experiment, causingany other variable to become less strongly corre-lated with the dependent measure as reaction timesapproach that minimum value.
Thus this interac-tion could be an artefact of a floor effect.To test the possibility that the SC-bias-presentation order interaction is the result of afloor effect, we compared the 1st, 5th, and 10thfastest percentiles of residual reading times acrossall regions.
As shown in Figure 3, faster readingtimes are observed at each quantile in at least oneother region.
In other words, reading times in thedisambiguating region do not seem to be boundedby motor demands associated with the task.
Wehence tentatively conclude that the interaction be-tween SC-bias and log-transformed presentationorder is not the result of a floor effect, althoughthis issue deserves further attention.Figure 3: Minimum and upper boundary of 1st,5th, and 10th percentile values of residual readingtimes across all sentence regions6 ConclusionWe hypothesized that the language comprehensionsystem rapidly adapts to shifts in the probabilitydistributions over syntactic structures on the ba-sis of experience with those structures.
To in-vestigate this phenomenon, we modelled readingtimes from a self-paced reading experiment us-ing a Bayesian model of incremental belief up-date.
While an initial test of the Beta-binomialmodel was encouraging, the predictions of theBeta-binomial model are highly correlated withpresentation order in the current data set.
Thismeans that it is hard to distinguish between adap-tation to the task of self-paced reading and syntac-tic adaptation.
Indeed, model comparison suggeststhat the Bayesian model does not explain a signif-icant amount of the variance in reading times oncemotor adaptation (as captured by stimulus presen-tation order) is accounted for.
In a secondary anal-ysis, we did, however, find preliminary evidenceof syntactic adaptation.
That is, while the Beta-binomial model does not seem to capture syntac-tic belief update adequately, there is evidence thatcomprehenders continuously update their syntac-tic distributions.25Teasing apart the effects of motor adaptationand linguistic adaptation will require experimen-tal designs in which these two factors are not ashighly correlated as in the present study.
Ongoingwork addresses this issue.AcknowledgementsThe authors wish to thank Neal Snider and mem-bers of the Human Language Processing lab, aswell as three anonymous ACL reviewers for help-ful discussion and feedback.
We are also verygrateful to Jeremy Ferris for help in collecting thedata reported here.
This work was supported bythe University of Rochesters Provost Award forMultidisciplinary Research and NSF grant BCS-0845059 to TFJ.ReferencesJohn Anderson.
1990.
The adaptive character ofthought.
Lawrence Erlbaum.Bock and Griffin.
2000.
The persistence of structuralpriming: Transient activation or implicit learning?Journal of Experimental Psychology, 129(2):177?192.Chang, Dell, and Bock.
2006.
Becoming syntactic.Psychological Review, 113(2):234?272.Clayards, Tanenhaus, Aslin, and Jacobs.
2008.
Per-ception of speech reflects optimal use of probabilis-tic cues.
Cognition, 108:804?809.Garnsey, Pearlmutter, Myers, and Lotocky.
1997.The contributions of verb bias and plausibility tothe comprehension of temporarily ambiguous sen-tences.
Journal of Memory and Language, (37):58?93.S.D.
Goldinger.
1998.
Echoes of echoes?
an episodictheory of lexical access.
Psychological Review,(105):251?279.Florian Jaeger.
in press.
Redundancy and reduc-tion: speakers manage syntactic information density.Cognitive Psychology.Just, Carpenter, and Woolley.
1982.
Paradigms andprocesses in reading comprehension.
Journal of Ex-perimental Psychology: General, 111:228?238.Rohde.
2005.
Linger experiment presentation soft-ware.
http://tedlab.mit.edu/ dr/Linger/.Schwarz.
1978.
Estimating the dimension of a model.Annals of Statistics, 6:461?464.Herbert Simon, 1987.
77K New Palgrave Dictionaryof Economics, chapter Bounded Rationality, pages266?268.
Macmillan, London.Neal Snider and Florian Jaeger.
in prep.Thothathiri and Snedeker.
2008.
Give and take:Syntactic priming during language comprehension.Cognition, 108:51?68.Wells, Christiansen, Race, Acheson, and MacDonald.2009.
Experience and sentence comprehension:Statistical learning and relative clause comprehen-sion.
Cognitive Psychology, 58:250?271.26
