Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Computational Linguistics in a World of Social Media, pages 27?28,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsLabelling and Spatio-Temporal Grounding of News EventsBea AlexSchool of InformaticsUniversity of Edinburgh, UKbalex@staffmail.ed.ac.ukClaire GroverSchool of InformaticsUniversity of Edinburgh, UKgrover@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractThis paper describes work in progress onlabelling and spatio-temporal grounding ofnews events as part of a news analysis systemthat is under development.1 Introduction: News Event AnalysisThe SYNC3 project1 is developing a system thattracks news events and related blogs.
A news eventis defined like a TDT event as something that hap-pened at a particular time and place (TDT, 2004).It constitutes a cluster of news items which all re-port on the same event.
The system crawls newssources and clusters incoming news items.
Theseclusters are then processed by a labelling and a re-lation extraction component.
The former determinesdocument and event-level labels and the later derivestemporal, geographic and causal relations betweenevents.
Related blog posts are connected to newsevents and analysed for sentiment.
In the user in-terface, users can search and select news events andrelated blogs, add comments and interact with otherusers.
Users will also be able to visualise relatednews events in a map interface and timeline.
In thispaper, the focus is on the labelling of news events.The input into the news event labeller is made upof news event clusters containing one or more newsitems from different sources.
Each news item is fedthrough a linguistic processing pipeline, includingnamed entity recognition, date and geo-resolution.Each cluster is then labelled with a LABEL (a titlesummarising the news event), a DESCRIPTION (thefirst sentence of a document), a LOCATION (the loca-tion where the event took place) and a DATE (the dateof the event).
We first compute this information forevery news item as a document summary and thenselect the most representative document summary ofthe news event cluster.1http://www.sync3.eu1.1 News Event LabelNews titles tend to be appropriate summaries ofnews items and events.
They are coherent phrasesor sentences that are understood by users.
We there-fore implemented variations of title labelling (Man-ning et al, 2008) made up of document-level titledetection and cluster-level title selection.
The firststep is done by iterating through the sentences of adocument and settling on a title if certain criteria aremet (e.g.
number of tokens is 3 or more, sentencedoes not match a set of filter strings etc.).
Given alldocument titles, we select as the most representativeLABEL:1. the LABEL of the first published news item,2.
the LABEL of the news item closest to the clus-ter centroid or3.
the LABEL with the largest ratio of terms com-mon to all titles divided by title lengthThe 1st method assumes that a news item whichfirst reports an event is breaking news and mostinteresting to users.
News items following it willprovide the same or further information.
The 2ndmethod assumes that the news item most representa-tive of the cluster statistically summarises the newsevent best.
The last method assumes that the mostsuccinct title with the most common vocabulary inall titles is most informative about a news event.1.2 News Event LocationWe use the Edinburgh Geoparser (Tobin et al, 2010)to recognise location names and ground them to theGeoNames gazetteer.2 Besides latitudes, longitudesand GeoNames IDs, we also assign population sizeand type of location (e.g.
populated place, countryetc.).
Our Geoparser yields 81.2% accuracy whenevaluating on SpatialML (Mani et al, 2008).
It alsocompares favourably with Yahoo!
Placemaker3 in anend-to-end run.2http://www.geonames.org3http://developer.yahoo.com/geo/placemaker27We only consider locations grounded to lat/longvalues as potential news item locations, therefore re-stricting the set to more accurately recognised ones.We select the first location in the LABEL and DE-SCRIPTION or (if none can be found) either the firstor most frequent location in the news item.
The newsitem location associated with the most representativecluster LABEL is selected as the news event location.To allow consistency of the information, we treat allcaps locations in the DESCRIPTION of each article asreporter locations and will investigate the percent-age of cases in which this location is the same as,near or different from the news event location.
Wewill also experiment with limiting the search spaceof locations to the excerpts of a news item that areevidence for it being part of its cluster.1.3 News Event DateWe choose the publication date of the earliest pub-lished news item in the cluster as the news eventdate.
Our linguistic processing recognises abso-lute, relative and under-specified temporal expres-sions (MUC-style TIMEX elements), normalisesthem and grounds them to a single number repre-sentation (the 1st of January 1 AD being 0).
Thisenables us to determine the day of the week, resolverelative dates and compute temporal precedence ona timeline.
We are working towards evaluating theperformance of the temporal expression recognitionon the Timebank corpus (Pustejovsky et al, 2003).2 Clustered News DataWe are developing our components using a staticset of clusters containing 12,547 documents from 9different news sources (AP: 16.7%, BBC: 12.9%,CNN: 5.2%, NYT: 9.2%, Reuters: 11.1%, RiaNovosti: 4.9%, USA TODAY: 12.3%, WP: 6.6%and Xinhua: 20.7%) which were crawled betweenMay 20th and June 3rd 2009.
The clustering of thesedocuments changes in regular intervals.
The currentrelease contains 7,456 clusters with an average of1.7 news items per cluster with up to 41 news items.2,259 clusters (30.3%) contain 2 or more news itemsof which 1,091 (48.3%) contain news items from atleast 2 sources.
The duration of a news event is 4days or less (<=1 day: 85.3%, 2 days: 12.4%, 3days: 2.0%, 4 days: 0.3%).The Geoparser extracts 188,932 locations as-signed with lat/longs from this data.
Using the 3rdlabelling method, we currently detect a news eventlocation in 7,325 of 7,456 news events (98.3%).
Ifwe only consider locations in news item LABELs andDESCRIPTIONs this figure drops to 83%.
117 clus-ters contain no location.
An error analysis will showif this is due to false negatives or inexplicit locations.3 Summary and Future WorkWe have presented ongoing work on news event la-belling, with a focus on title labelling and spatio-temporal grounding of news events, and have pre-sented some initial statistics on development data.We are in the process of creating gold standarddata with which we can test the performance of thenews event labelling.
This will allow us to determinethe appropriateness of the news event labels as wellas the accuracy of news event locations and datesand enable us to fine-tune the labelling process.
Ourfuture work also includes identifying geographical,temporal and causal relations between news eventsfor story detection.Both the clustering of news into news eventsand their analysis are crucial for structuring andanalysing the blogosphere accordingly, as one aimof SYNC3 is to extract news-event-related blogposts and identify their sentiment.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank all project partners of theSYNC3 project (FP7-231854).ReferencesI.
Mani, J. Hitzeman, J.
Richer, D. Harris, R. Quimby, andB.
Wellner.
2008.
SpatialML: Annotation scheme,corpora, and tools.
In Proceedings of LREC?08.C.
D. Manning, P. Raghavan, and H. Schu?tze.
2008.
In-troduction to Information Retrieval.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press.J.
Pustejovsky, P. Hanks, R.
Saur?
?, A.
See, R.Gaizauskas,A.
Setzer, D. Radev, B. Sundheim, D. Day, L. Ferro,and M. Lazo.
2003.
The TIMEBANK corpus.
CorpusLinguistics, pages 647?656.TDT.
2004.
TDT 2004: Annotation Manual Version1.2.
URL: http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/TDT5/Annotation/TDT2004V1.2.pdf.R.
Tobin, C. Grover, K. Byrne, J. Reid, and J. Walsh.2010.
Evaluation of georeferencing.
In Proceedingsof GIR?10.28
