Chinese Personal Name Disambiguation:Technical Report of Natural Language Processing Lab ofXiamen UniversityXiang Zhu, Xiaodong Shi, Ningfeng Liu, YingMei Guo, Yidong ChenNatural Language Processing Lab, Department of Cognitive Science, XiamenUniversity , Xiamen 361005zhuxiang_sm@163.com,mandel@xmu.edu.cn,nffliu@gmail.comAbstractThis report presents the work of ourgroup in the Chinese personal namedisambiguation workshop.
We propose asystem which uses a HAC algorithm tocluster the mentions referring to the sameperson with features extracted from thedocuments.1 IntroductionPersonal name disambiguation is actually atask to group those documents according towhether the given personal name appearingin that document refers to the same person inreality.
It becomes an active research topicrecently, and the evaluation campaign for theEnglish personal name has been held twice.Chinese personal name disambiguation isthought to be more challenging due to theneed for word segmentation which couldbring errors into the subsequent processes.The most widely used method for personalname disambiguation is unsupervisedclustering, we adopt a HierarchicalAgglomerative Clustering algorithm in oursystem, which is also the most popularclustering algorithm used by the teams of thesecond Web People Search Evaluationcampaign.The remaining part of this report isorganized as follows.
Section 2 introducesthe document preprocessing.
Section 3describes the feature used for the clusteringand the section 4 addresses the clusteringalgorithm.
The workshop requests twodifferent tests, a formal test, and a diagnosistest, we will discuss the difference betweenthem with our system?s result in section 5.2 Document preprocessingDifferent from the document preprocessingfor English, we have to use a segmentationtool and a part-of-speech tagger to do somepreprocessing work.
For example, withoutthe segmenting process, the documents onlycontain the string ????????
could beclustered when the query name is ???
?,and we need the part-of-speech tagger todetect whether the Chinese word ???
?stands for a personal name or a toponym.Our experiments prove that the system issensitive to the tools?
performance, thedifferent result between the formal test andthe diagnosis test also proves this.These tools are trained with the 90% dataof The People's Daily published inJan.1998,and tested with the others 10% data.The performances of the tools are?Precision Recall Fseg 97.746% 97.793% 97.769%tag 94.197% 94.242% 94.219%Table 1: the performances of the tools3 Extracted featuresAs mentioned previously, our goal is togroup those documents.
In our approach,each document is represented by a vector offeatures extracted from it automatically.
Weuse three kinds of token-based features:1) Nouns occur around the ambiguouspersonal name.This kind of features is selected based onthe idea that words around the ambiguouspersonal name are more relevant to it, andNouns can provide a more diagnosticdescription of the person.
We use a windowto select the nouns.2) Personal names (except the ambiguouspersonal name) and toponyms occur in thedocument.It is intuitive that the identical personoften associated with the same personalnames and toponyms.3)  Words with high TFIDF value.
In ourfinal system, we use the ten words withhighest TFIDF value.This kind of features can reflect the themeof an article, an identical person often bementioned in articles with the same theme.Using these features simultaneously canalleviate the problem caused by spare data.The following table presents a quantitativeanalysis:used features highest F score ondev dataFeature 1 83.76Feature 1,2 86.18Feature 1,3 84.83Feature 1,2,3 86.76Table 2:analysis of featuresThese results are obtained by using ainitial version of the preprocessing toools,and when we improve the performances ofthe tools, the highest F score increases from86.76 to 89.61 .The similarity between documents wasmeasured with the cosine of feature vectors.When computing the similarity between twodocuments, we proposed a weighting methodfor the features as:If the token occurs in the document, theweight will be 1, else 0.We have tried another method that countthe tokens?
weight by its frequency, butexperiments prove it is a less effective one,we can interpret it by this example:If a word "??"
which refers to a personnamed " ?
? "
appears twice in onedocument  while three times in anotherdocument, these two documents are verylikely referring to the same person, but thelatter weighting method decreases thesimilarity between them.4 Clustering algorithmA Hierarchical Agglomerative Clusteringalgorithm is adopted in our system, whichdetermines the number of the cluster by afixed similarity threshold learned from thetrain data.
At each stage of the clustering, thetwo most similar clusters are merged into anew one, and other clusters?
similarities withthe new cluster is the larger one of theirsimilarities with the two old clusters.We have tried some other clusteringmethods such as modified k-meansclustering with the same features, but theperformances are worse.A pre-judgment stage before clustering isuseful in the experiment, which can be doneas follow:If two documents have the same tripletokens ?token1 token2 PersonName?
(token2is tagged as noun), then they are classified toone cluster.5 Result and discussionThe difference between the formal test andthe diagnosis test is that the ambiguouspersonal name in each document have beentold in the latter, but you have to find it in theformer by yourself.
The method we adopt todetect the ambiguous personal name in theformal test is to find the token which istagged as personal name while contains thequery name.Our system?s performances are:B-Cubed precision Recall FFormaltest90.55 84.88 85.72Diagnosistest89.84 89.84 89.08Table 3: the performances in the B-CubedcriterionP-IP P IP FFormaltest93.3 89.22 89.9Diagnosistest92.77 93.33 92.71Table 4: the performances in the P-IPcriterionFrom the results we can know thatChinese personal name disambiguation canbe affected by the segmentation tool and thepart-of-speech tagger.ReferencesY.
Chen, S. Y. M. Lee, and C.-R. Huang.Polyuhk: A robust information extractionsystem for web personal names.
In 2nd WebPeople Search Evaluation Workshop (WePS2009), 18th WWW Conference, 2009.J.
Gong and D. Oard.
Determine the entitynumber in hierarchical clustering for webpersonal name disambiguation.
In 2nd WebPeople Search Evaluation Workshop (WePS2009), 18th WWW Conference, 2009.P.
Kalmar and D. Freitag.
Features for webperson disambiguation.
In 2nd Web PeopleSearch Evaluation Workshop (WePS 2009),18th WWW Conference, 2009.
