Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 63?66,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSame and Elaboration Relations in the Discourse GraphbankIrina BorisovaUniversity of Groningen,Groningen, The NetherlandsSaarland University,Saarbr?cken, Germanyborisova.ira@gmail.comGisela RedekerUniversity of Groningen,Groningen, The Netherlandsg.redeker@rug.nlAbstractThis  study investigates  the  use of  Same  ?
arelation  that  connects  the  parts  of  adiscontinuous  discourse  segment  ?
in  theDiscourse Graphbank (Wolf et al, 2004).
Ouranalysis  reveals  systematic  deviations  fromthe  definition  of  the  Same relation  and  asubstantial  number  of  confusions  betweenSame and  Elaboration relations.
We discusssome  methodological  and  theoreticalimplications of these findings.1 IntroductionCoherence  relations  and  their  composition(usually assumed to be strictly hierarchical, i.e.,treelike) form the core of most corpus-linguisticand  computational  work  on  discourse  structure(see Taboada & Mann 2006 for an overview).
Theassumption  that  discourse  structure  can  bemodeled as a tree has recently come under attacke.g.
in Wolf & Gibson (2003, 2006;  henceforthWG).
Based on the  Discourse Graphbank (Wolfet al2004; henceforth DG), a manually annotatedcorpus  of  135  newspaper  and  newswire  texts,WG claim that less constrained graph structuresare  needed that  allow for  crossed  dependencies(i.e.
structures  in  which  discourse  units  ABCD(not necessarily adjacent) have relations AC andBD) and multiple-parent structures (where a unitenters  more  than  one  coherence relation  and  isthus dominated by more than one node).1Among the 11 types of relations distinguishedin  DG,  the  Elaboration relation,  where  twoasymmetrically  related  discourse  units  are?centered around a common event of entity?
(Wolf1 The validity of this claim is contested in Egg & Redeker(2010).et  al  2003:  12),  stands  out  by  its  heavyinvolvement in these violations of tree structureconstraints.
Elaboration relations are involved in50.52% of all crossed dependency structures andin 45.83% of  multiple-parent  structures.
Thesehigh  percentages  are  in  part  due  to  the  highoverall  frequency  of  Elaboration relations(37.97% of all relations), but clearly exceed thatbase rate.
Elsewhere, Elaboration relations, esp.those where the elaborandum is an entity and nota  whole  proposition,  have  been  criticized  asbelonging more to referential coherence than torelational coherence (Knott el at  2001).
In thisstudy,  we  show  that  WG?s  (somewhatidiosyncratic)  definition  of  the Elaborationrelation  seems  to  lead  to  confusion  with  the'pseudo-relation' Same.The  ?pseudo-relation?
Same-Unit wasintroduced by Marcu (Carlson & Marcu 2001) todeal  with  discontinuous  discourse  units  in  theRST  Discourse  Treebank  (Carlson,  Marcu  &Okurowski  2002).
Same-Unit (re)connects  theparts  of  a  discourse  unit  that  is  disrupted  byembedded  material.
In  the  tree  representation,the intervening material is attached to one of theconstituent  units  of  the  Same-Unit relation(Carlson  &  Marcu  2001:23-26).
In  DG,  thisrelation is called Same and accounts for 17.21%of all relations; only Elaboration and Similarityare  more  frequent.2 As  DG  allows  multipleattachments,  Same should  be  expected  to  beregularly  associated  with  multiple-parentstructures,  and  it  is:  the  percentage  of  Samerelations is higher in multiple-parent structuresthan  overall,  and  the  reduction  of  multiple-2 Note that a Same-Unit relation is not needed in ?classic?RST, where parenthetical segments are extracted andplaced after the segment within which they occur (Redeker& Egg 2006).63parent  structures  when  Same relations  areremoved  from  the  DG  is  second  only  toElaboration (Wolf & Gibson 2003:280-282).Our  explorations  of  Same relations  in  DGrevealed a substantial number of cases that do notseem to fit WG?s definition of this relation, mostnotably confusions with Elaboration relations anda  surprising number  of  cases  where  there  is  nointervening segment to be bridged by the  Samerelation.
In  this  paper,  we  will  present  thesefindings  and  discuss  some  consequences  fordiscourse  segmentation  and  the  annotation  ofcoherence relations.2 Same relations in DGThe  DG  coding  manual  (Wolf  et  al  2003:15)stipulates  as  the  only  condition  for  a  Samerelation  that  a  discourse  segment  must  have?intervening  material?.
The  example  in  themanual  tacitly  fits  the  much  more  restrictivedefinition  given  in  (Wolf  &  Gibson  2003:255)and in (Wolf & Gibson 2006:28):?A same relation  holds  if  a  subject  NP isseparated from its predicate by an interveningdiscourse segment?.Among  the  534  Same  relations  in  DG,3 wehave  identified  128  cases  (23.98%)  where  thisdefinition does not seem to apply.
Sixty-four ofthese  cases  also  do  not  satisfy  the  broaderdefinition in the coding manual (see 2.3).2.1 Same or Elaboration?In  35  cases,  the  Same relation  is  applied  toconstructions  that  are  elsewhere  labeledElaborations.
Consider the parallel examples (1)and (2):(1) [42]?
[44] elab-loc[42] There, [43] she said,[44] robots perform specifictasks in ?islands ofautomation,?
(Text 1)(2)[32]?
[34] same[32] In the factory of thefuture, [33] according to theuniversity's model, [34]human chatter will bereplaced by the click-clackof machines.
(Text 1)3We have arbitrarily chosen to use the data for annotator 1.The two annotators agreed on segmentation and annotationin 98% of the cases.In these examples, [42] and [32] each specifya location for the state of affairs expressed in thesecond constituent of the relation, [44] and [34]respectively.
Note that [32] is not a subject NPand  example  (2)  thus  violates  the  restrictedvariant  of  the  Same  relation  definition.Interestingly,  examples  (1)  and  (2)  differ  withrespect  to  the  involvement  in  crosseddependencies and multiple-parent structures.
Asexpected from an elaborating segment, [42] doesnot participate in any other relations;  the threeother relations [44] participates in do not include[42].
By  contrast,  [32]  is  attached  to  theintervening segment and in eight other relationsin  which  not  [34]  by  itself,  but  the  combinedsegment [32]?
[34] participates.In  other  examples,  a  general  differencebetween these Same and  Elaboration exampleslies  in  the  attachment  of  the  interveningsegment:  in  the  Same cases,  the  interveningsegment  might  be  attached  to  the  precedingdiscourse segment, and in the Elaboration casesto the following segment.The confusion between the symmetric  Samerelation (both segments have in principle equalstatus) and the asymmetric Elaboration relation(combining an elaborandum with a less centralelaborating segment) might have been caused byWG?s  definition,  which  stipulates  that  thesegments be ?centered around a common eventor entity?
(Wolf et  al 2003: 12)  and thus doesnot  reflect  the  asymmetry  of  the  Elaborationrelation.2.2 Violations of definitional constraintsThere are other cases, besides those discussed in2.1,  where  the  formal  requirement  of  therestrictive definition is not met.
In 20 cases, theSame relations joins coordinated or disjoint NP'sas in example (3):(3)[13]?
[16] same[13] Mrs. Price's husband,[14] Everett Price, [15] 63,[16] and their daughters,(Text 2)In 12 cases, Same is used to relate a discourseconnective to its host clause as in (4):(4)[4]?
[6] same[4] However, [5] after twomeetings with the Soviets,[6] a State Departmentspokesman said that (Text 8)64Presumably the annotators were using the lessrestrictive definition in the coding manual.
Thisexplanation cannot account for the last categoryof problematic cases we now turn to.2.3 Spurious Same relationsWe found 64 cases in DG where Same is assignedto two adjacent discourse segments, thus violatingthe essential  criterion of ?intervening material?.Such ?spurious?
Same relations occur with variousconstructions including the following:?
Complement clauses(5)[61] The administrationshould now state [62] that(Text 123, wsj_0655)?
Infinitive clauses(6)[79] Banco Exterior wasone of the last banks [80] tocreate a brokerage house(Text 122, wsj_0616)?
Conditional clauses(7) [35] And important U.S.lawmakers must decide at theend of November [36] if theContras are to receive therest of the $49 million inso-called humanitarianassistance under a bipartisanagreement (Text 123,wsj_0655).?
Gerund postmodifier phrases(8) [2] Lawmakers haven?tpublicly raised thepossibility [3] of renewingmilitary aid to the Contras,(Text 123, wsj_0655).?
Temporal ?as?-clauses(9) [31] it came [32] asNicaragua is under specialinternational scrutiny inanticipation of its plannedFebruary elections.
(Text123, wsj_0655)The  64  spurious  Same relations  areconcentrated in only 20 of the 135 texts.
Fifty-oneof those cases occur in ten texts that  were alsoused in the RST Discourse Treebank.
This givesus  the  interesting  opportunity  to  compare  theDG  and  RST Treebank  analyses  for  these  51cases.
As Table 1 shows, only two of them arelabeled  Same-Unit in the RST Treebank, while26 (51%) are Elaboration relations.Relations Frequencies PercentElaboration 26 51.0 %Attribution 13 25.5 %Same-Unit 2 3.9 %Other 10 19.6 %Total 51 100 %Table 1: Spurious Same relations in DG and relationsassigned in the RST TreebankIt  is  instructive  to  look  at  the  subtype  ofElaboration assigned to these cases, which mostcommonly  is  the  relation  Elaboration-object-attribute-e.
It  applies  to  clausal  modifiers,usually  postmodifiers  of  a  noun  phrase,  thatexpress an intrinsic quality of an object.
Carlson& Marcu (2001:55) illustrate this relation withthe following example:(10) [Allied Capital is aclosed-end managementinvestment company][thatwill operate as a businessdevelopment concern.
](wsj_0607)The  constructions  with  spurious  Samerelations  in  DG  thus  often  involve  restrictivemodification, implying a very close tie betweenthe segments  involved,  possibly prompting  theannotators to as it were undo the segmentation.3 Segmentation rulesAny annotation  of  discourse  relations  requiresrules  for  segmenting  the  text  into  elementarydiscourse  units.
DG follows Carlson  & Marcu(2003)  in  assuming  clauses,  modifiers  andattributions  as  discourse  segments  (DSs),  butadds  some ?refinements?
(Wolf  et  al.,  2003:8)that  may  be  responsible  for  some  of  theproblematic  cases  discussed  in  section  2.4 Inparticular, two of the additional stipulations referto ?elaborations?
:4 A different account of the segmentation is given in (Wolf& Gibson 2006), but the annotation in DG is presumablybased on the 2003 manual.65?Elaborations [..] are separate DSs: [ Mr.Jones, ][ spokesman for IBM, ] [ said?
]?
(Wolf et al, 2003:8)?Time-, space-, personal- or detail-elaborations are treated as DSs?
(Wolf et al,2003:9).This  might  simply  be  an  unfortunateequivocation,  but  still  is  likely  to  confuseannotators by confounding the segmentation andrelation annotation tasks.4  ConclusionsOur  analysis  of  the  Same  relation  in  DG  hasshown systematic deviations from the definitionof this (pseudo-)relation and a substantial numberof  confusions  between  Same and  Elaboration,both in cases where  Same  cannot apply, as thereis  no  intervening  segment,  and  in  cases  whereboth might apply, but parsimony would demandto  treat  parallel  cases  equally.
Some  of  theproblematic cases may have been caused by theuse  of  relational  terminology  (?elaboration?)
intwo of the segmentation rules.
The problems arenot  just  methodological,  though,  but  may  raisequestions  about  the  conceptual  status  ofElaboration relations.The  confusion  of  a  bone  fide  coherencerelation with a purely technical construction thatserves  to  recombine the  parts  of  an  interruptedsegment  must  be  worrisome.
More  specifically,the  comparison with the annotation in the RSTDiscourse  Treebank  reveals  that  many  of  the?spurious?
Same relations in DG are analyzed asElaboration-object-attribute-e relations  in  theRST Treebank.
This is exactly the subcategory ofElaboration relations that most clearly operate onthe level of entities instead of propositions, andthus  arguably  might  not  be  proper  discourserelations (Knott et al 2001).
This holds a fortiorias  Carlson  &  Marcu?s  (2001)  definition  of  theElaboration-object-attribute-e relation requires arestrictive  modifier  construction.
The increasingavailability  of  corpora  annotated  for  discoursestructure will facilitate the further investigation ofthese questions.AcknowledgementsThis research was partially supported by a travelgrant  from  the  Erasmus  Mundus  MastersProgramme  in  Language  and  CommunicationTechnologies to Borisova and by grant 360-70-282  of  the  Netherlands  Organization  forScientific  Research  (NWO)  to  Redeker.
Wewould  like  to  thank  Robin  Cooper  and  threeanonymous  reviewers  for  their  very  usefulcomments.ReferencesLynn  Carlson  and  Daniel  Marcu.
2001.
DiscourseTagging Reference Manual.Lynn  Carlson,  Daniel  Marcu,  and  Mary  EllenOkurowski.
2002.
RST  Discourse  Treebank.Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia.Markus Egg and Gisela Redeker.
2010.
How complexis discourse?
Proceedings of LREC 2010.Alistair  Knott,  Jon Oberlander,  Michael  O?Donnell,and Chris Mellish.
2001.
Beyond Elaboration: Theinteraction of relations and focus in coherent text.In  J.  Schilperoord T.  Sanders  and  W.  Spooren,editors, Text  Representation:  Linguistic  andPsycholinguistic Aspects, pp 181?196.
Benjamins.Gisela Redeker and Markus Egg.
2006.
Says who?On  the  treatment  of  speech  attributions  indiscourse  structure.
In  C.  Sidner,  J.  Harpur,  A.Benz, and P. K?hnlein (eds),  Proceedings of theWorkshop  Constraints  in  Discourse  2006.Maynooth:  National  University  of  Ireland,  pp.140?146.Maite  Taboada  and  William  C.  Mann.
2006.Rhetorical  Structure  Theory:  Looking  back  andmoving ahead.
Discourse Studies, 8 (3), 423?459.Florian Wolf, Edward Gibson, Amy Fisher, MeredithKnight.
2003.
A  Procedure  for Collecting  aDatabase  of  Texts  Annotated  with  CoherenceRelations.
Database documentation.Florian Wolf and Edward Gibson.
2003.
Representingdiscourse  coherence:  A corpus-based  study.Computational Linguistics, 31(2):249?287.Florian  Wolf,  Edward  Gibson,  Amy  Fisher,  andMeredith  Knight.
2004.
Discourse Graphbank.Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia.Florian Wolf and Edward Gibson.
2006.
Coherencein Natural Language.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.66
