Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Cross Lingual Information Access at COLING 2010, pages 3?10,Beijing, August 2010Filtering news for epidemic surveillance:towards processing more languages with fewer resourcesGae?l Lejeune1, Antoine Doucet1,1GREYC, University of Caenfirst.last@info.unicaen.frRoman Yangarber2, Nadine Lucas12CS department, University of Helsinkiyangarbe@cs.helsinki.fiAbstractProcessing content for security be-comes more and more important sinceevery local danger can have globalconsequences.
Being able to collectand analyse information in differentlanguages is a great issue.
This pa-per addresses multilingual solutionsfor analysis of press articles for epi-demiological surveillance.
The sys-tem described here relies on pragmat-ics and stylistics, giving up ?bag ofsentences?
approach in favour of dis-course repetition patterns.
It onlyneeds light resources (compared toexisting systems) in order to processnew languages easily.
In this pa-per we present here results in En-glish, French and Chinese, three lan-guages with quite different character-istics.
These results show that simplerules allow selection of relevant doc-uments in a specialized database im-proving the reliability of informationextraction.1 Multilingual techniques ininformation extractionIn natural language processing, informationextraction is a task where, given raw text, asystem is to give precise information fittingin a predefined semantic template.1.1 Epidemic surveillanceAutomated news surveillance is an importantapplication of information extraction.
Thedetection of terrorist events and economicsurveillance were the first applications, inparticular in the framework of the evalua-tion campaigns of the Message Understand-ing Conference (MUC) (MUC, 1992; MUC,1993).
In MUC-3 (1991) and MUC-4 (1992),about terrorism in Latin American countries,the task of participants was, given a collec-tion of news feed data, to fill in a prede-termined semantic template containing thename of the terrorist group that perpetrateda terrorist event, the name of the victim(s),the type of event, and the date and locationwhere it occurred.
In economic surveillance,one can for instance extract mergers or cor-porate management changes.An application of information extractionthat lately gained much importance is thatof epidemiological surveillance, with a spe-cial emphasis on the detection of disease out-breaks.
Given news data, the task is to de-tect epidemiological events, and extract thelocation where they occurred, the name ofthe disease, the number of victims, and the?case?, that is, a text description of theevent, that may be the ?status?
of victims(sick, injured, dead, hospitalised .
.
. )
or awritten description of symptoms.
Epidemio-logical surveillance has become a crucial toolwith increasing world travel and the latestcrises of SARS, avian flu, H1N1 .
.
.In this paper, we present an application toepidemic surveillance, but it may be equallyapplied to any subdomain of news surveil-lance.1.2 Multilingual informationextractionAs in many fields of NLP, most of the work ininformation extraction long focused on En-glish data (Etzioni et al, 2008).Multilingualhas often been understood as adding many3monolingual systems, except in pioneer mul-tilingual parsing (Vergne, 2002).
WhereasEnglish is nowadays the lingua franca inmany fields (in particular, business), we willsee that for several applications, this is notsufficient.
Most news agencies are translat-ing part of their feed into English (e.g., AFP1and Xinhua2 for which the source languagesare respectively French and Chinese), but agood deal of the data is never translated,while for the part that is, the translationprocess naturally incurs a delay that is, byessence, problematic in a field where exhaus-tivity and early detection are crucial aspects.Subsequently, the ability to simultane-ously handle documents written in differentlanguages is becoming a more and more im-portant feature (Poibeau et al, 2008; Gey etal., 2009).
Indeed, in the field of epidemio-logical surveillance, it is especially importantto detect a new event the very first time it ismentioned, and this very first occurrence willalmost always happen in the local language(except for countries like Iraq for instance).Therefore, it is not enough to be able to dealwith several languages : It is necessary tohandle many.
For instance, the Medical In-formation System (Medisys) of the EuropeanCommunity gathers news data in 42 differ-ent languages (Atkinson and der Goot, 2009)(now 453).1.3 Current approachesThere are currently 2 main approaches tomultilingual information extraction.
Thefirst approach relies on the prior transla-tion of all the documents into one com-mon language (usually English), for which awell-performing information extraction sys-tem has been developed (Linge et al, 2009).Whereas the simple design of this solutionis attractive, the current state of the art inmachine translation only allows for mediocreresults.
Most monolingual information ex-traction systems indeed rely on a combina-1http://www.afp.com/afpcom/en2http://www.xinhuanet.com/english2010/3http://medusa.jrc.it/medisys/aboutMediSys.htmltion of grammatical patterns and specializedlexicons (Grishman et al, 2002; Riloff, 1996).The second main approach consists in leav-ing documents in their original language butto translate the lexicons and extraction pat-terns into that language (Efimenko et al,2004; Linge et al, 2009).
However, thesame problems occur as in the first approachbecause the patterns are strongly language-related.
Yet, to ?translate the system?
seemsmore realistic than to translate the docu-ments, as it can be done manually, and of-fline (once and for all, and not as docu-ments arrive).
The bottleneck is then thatthe amount of work for each language isenormous: it naturally requires the com-plete translation of the lexicon (for all trig-ger words), but the more challenging is-sue is the translation of patterns, whoselanguage-dependence might well mean thatthe amount of work needed to translate themcomes close to that required for writing themfrom scratch.
In addition, this task mustnecessarily be achieved by a domain expert,with excellent skills in the languages at hand.One could want to tackle this problem by us-ing machine learning but she will need train-ing data in many languages.
In practice,this will often mean that only a few majorlanguages will be dealt with, whilst all theothers (amongst which all low-resource lan-guages), will again be totally discarded.
Onecan then only wish that epidemics will choseto occur in locations handled by surveillancesystems.
.
.Both approaches additionally require anumber of linguistic processing tools, in anumber comparable to the number of lan-guages to be dealt with: tokenizer, stem-mer, syntactic analyzer, .
.
.
One might there-fore conclude that such techniques are notproperly multilingual but rather monolingualmethods that may be adapted to other lan-guages individually.In this paper, we explore a third approachto multilingual information extraction.
Werestrain ourselves to the sole use of truly mul-4tilingual elements, facts that are equally truefor any language.
The approach hence relieson universals, relying, e.g., on stylistics andrhetorics.2 Rationale of the experimentThe objective of the system is to monitornews in a variety of languages to detect dis-ease outbreaks which is an important issuefor an alert system in epidemic surveillance.For this task a simple and clear framework isneeded in order to limit the amount of workfor new languages while keeping good relia-bility.
The main idea of our work is usingtext granularity and discourse properties towrite rules that may be language indepen-dent, fast and reliable (Vergne, 2002).
Forthis study, regularities at text level are ex-ploited.
These phenomena can be related tostylistics and pragmatics.
It has already beenshown that news discourse has its own con-straints reflected in press articles of differentlanguages (Van Dijk, 1988; Lucas, 2004).2.1 Stylistic rulesJournalists all over the world know how tohook their potential readers.
These meth-ods are described in journalism schools (Ituleand Anderson, 2006).
One very importantrule for journalists seems to be the?5W rule?which emphasise on the fact that answeringto the questions?What?,?Where?,?When?,?Why?
and ?Who?
is a priority at the startof a paper.
Only after that can journal-ists develop and give secondary information.This phenomenon is genre dependent and isexploited for processing texts by searchingfor repetitions.Example 1 shows a piece of news where thedisease name is found in the beginning of thenews article and developed later on.
No localpattern is needed to detect what the articleis about, repetition phenomena is sufficient.Example 2 is a counter example, wherea disease name is found but not repeated.This French document reports on a pop mu-sic band being the ?coqueluche?
of Hip-Hop,which can mean ?pertussis?, but here means?fashion?
in a figurative sense (underliningthe fast spread of the band?s popularity).Usually, figurative meanings are not usedtwice in the same article (Itule and Ander-son, 2006) and hence the repetition criteriaallows one to rightfully ignore this article.2.2 Pragmatic rulesAs press articles are made for humans, strongeffort is exerted to ensure that readers willunderstand the main information with as fewinferences as possible (Sperber and Wilson,1998).
In fact, the more inferences the readerhas to make, the more errors he is likely tomake and the more probability he will getconfused and not read the full article.
Rep-etitions are there to relieve the memory ef-fort.
A point that journalists pay much at-tention to is leaving as few ambiguities onmain facts as possible.
It means that poten-tially unknown or complicated terms will beused quite rarely.
Only one main story willbe developed in an article, other facts thatare important will be developed elsewhere asmain stories.3 Our systemThe system is based on the comparison ofrepetitions in the article to find documentsrelevant for epidemic surveillance and extractwhere the disease occurs and how many peo-ple are concerned.3.1 String repetitions: relevantcontentA system is not a human reader, so objec-tive discourse marks are used by the sys-tem.
Repetitions are known since the an-cient times as reflecting discourse structure.A press article is divided into two parts,roughly the head and the rest of the news.The title and the first two sentences formthe head or thematic part and the rest ofthe text is considered to be a development inan expository discourse.5Measles outbreak spreads north in B.C.Number of cases hits 44 provincewide B.C.
?s measles outbreak appears to have spread tonortheastern areas of the province, after doctors confirmed two new cases of the diseasein the Fort St. John and Fort Nelson areas on Thursday.The new cases bring the total number of confirmed cases in the province to 44, notincluding suspected but unconfirmed cases, said the B.C.
Centre for Disease Control.Northern Health spokeswoman Eryn Collins said the virus had not been detected in thenorth in more than six years and the two new cases involve people who weren?t immunized.[...]
?It is suspected that at least two out-of-country visitors brought measles into Van-couver sometime in February or early March, as two separate strains of the virus have beenidentified,?
said a statement from the B.C.
Centre for Disease Control earlier this week.
Sofar, 17 cases of the measles have been detected in the Fraser Valley, 17 in the Vancouverarea, seven in the southern Interior, two in northern B.C.
and one on Vancouver island.Figure 1: Example in English: repetition of disease name and casesCameroun/Musique : X-Maleya nouvelle coqueluche du Hip-Hop camerounais !Le trio Hip-Hop Cameounais X-Maleya, a le vent en poupe.
Le groupe qui s?illustre dansla tendance Hip-Hop, est aujourd?hui l?une des valeurs sres musicales gra?ce son secondopus Yelele.Derrie`re ces trois pre?noms : Roger, Auguste et Ha?
?s, se cachent un trio camerounaisqui s?illustre dans le monde du Hip-Hop.
[etc.]
C?est donc, une nouvelle valeur su?requ?incarnent eux trois Roger, Auguste et Ha??s.
Le groupe rencontre en effet, une ascensionfulgurante.
Les trois faiseurs de Hip-Hop, ont une seule ide?e en te?te, continuer de seproduire pour ceux qui les appre?cient, toujours composer de belles me?lodies et, ne pasoublier d?ou` ils viennent.Figure 2: Example in French: no repetitionStrings that are present in both parts willbe referred to as?relevant content?.
They arefound in the beginning of the news and re-peated in the development.
To process asmany languages as possible, repeated char-acter strings will be searched (not wordsbecause Chinese for instance does not usegraphic words).3.2 Defining epidemic eventEpidemic events are captured through theseinformation slots:?
Disease (What)?
Location (Where)?
Case, i.e.,People concerned (Who)3.3 Selecting potentially relevantdocumentsThis discourse related heuristic rule limits re-sources needed by the system.
Many char-acter strings that are repeated in the textreflect important terms.
However, repeti-tion alone does not allow to fill IE templateswith detailed information as required.
Ac-cordingly, a lexical filter is applied on the re-peated strings.
200 common disease namesare used to filter information and find dis-ease names.
The idea behind the restrictedlist is that a journalist will use a commonname to help his readers understand the mes-sage.
Similarly, for locations, a list of coun-try names and capitals provided by UN is6WHO checks smallpox reports in UgandaLONDON, ThursdayThe World Health Organisation said today it was investigating reports of suspected casesof the previously eradicated disease smallpox in eastern Uganda.Smallpox is an acute contagious disease and was one of the worlds most feared sicknessesuntil it was officially declared eradicated worldwide in 1979.?WHO takes any report of smallpox seriously, Gregory Hartl, a spokesman for the Geneva-based United Nations health agency, told Reuters via email.
?WHO is aware of the reports coming out of Uganda and is taking all the necessarymeasures to investigate and verify.?[etc.
]Figure 3: Example in English: repetition and locationused (about 500 items).
Finally, in order tocomply with a specific demand of partners,blacklist terms were used to detect less rel-evant articles (vaccination campaign for in-stance).When a disease name is found in the rele-vant content, the article is selected as poten-tially relevant and the system tries to extractlocation and cases.3.4 Extracting location and casesTo extract the location, the following heuris-tic is applied: the relevant location corre-sponds to a string in the?relevant content?.For instance, Example 3 shows that it allowsfor the system to find that the main eventconcerns Uganda but not London.If numerous locations match, the systemcompares frequencies in the whole document:if one location is more than twice as frequentas others, it is considered as the relevant one.If no location is found, the location of thesource is selected by default.
In fact accord-ing to pragmatic rules when one reads anarticle in the Washington Post, she will besure that it is about the United States evenif it is not explicitly mentioned.
To the con-trary if the article is about Argentina it willbe clearly mentioned so the reader has lesschances of misunderstanding.Concerning the cases, they are related tothe first numeric information found in thedocument, provided the figures are not re-lated to money or date (this is checked by ablacklist and simple regular expressions).Furthermore the extracted cases are con-sidered more relevant if they appear twice inthe document, the system uses regular ex-pressions to round up and compare them.See Example 4 where the number of deadpeople ?55?
is the first numeric informationin the beginning and is repeated in the de-velopment (we chose an example where it iseasy even for a non Chinese speaker to seethe repetition).
One can also note that thesecond repeated figure is ?19488?
which isthe number of infected people.4 EvaluationIt is important to insist on the fact that oursystem extracts the main event from one ar-ticle, considering that secondary events havebeen or will be mentioned in another article.Often, the more topics are presented in onearticle, the less important each one is.
In thecase of epidemic surveillance, review articlesor retrospectives are not first-hand, fresh andvaluable information.4.1 Corpus and LanguagesFor each language we randomly extracteddocuments from the Medisys website.Medisys documents are gathered using key-words: medical terms (including scientificdisease names), but also weaker keywordssuch as casualties, hospital.
.
.
This impliesthat some news document not related7Figure 4: Example in Chinese: 55 deaths from H1N1to epidemic surveillance, but to accidentreports for instance, are liable to be foundin the database.We must underline that in this framework,recall can only be estimated, notably becausethe news documents are keyword-filtered be-forehand.
However, our aim is not to providean independent system, but to provide quicksorting of irrelevant news, prior to detailedanalysis, which is the key issue of a surveil-lance and alert system.
200 documents wereextracted for each language and manuallytagged by native speakers with the followinginstructions:?
Is this article about an epidemic??
If it is, please give when possible:Disease(s)Country (or Worldwide)Number of cases100 of these annotated documents were usedfor fine-tuning the system, 100 others forevaluating.
We chose for this study 3 fairlydifferent languages for checking the generic-ity of the approach?
French, with its rather rich morphology,?
English,a rather isolating language withpoor morphology,?
Chinese, a strict isolating language withpoor morphology.4.2 ResultsThese results were computed from a set of100 annotated documents, as described insection 4.
Table 1 shows recall, precision andF-measure for document selection(more ex-amples are available online 4 ) Table 2 com-pares automatically extracted slots and hu-man annotated slots, therefore if an event isnot detected by the system it will count asan error for each slot.Table 1 shows that selection of documentsis quite satisfactory and that recall is betterthan precision.
This is mostly due to the factthat the system still extracts documents withlow relevance.
We found it impossible to pre-dict if this is a general bias and whether itcan be improved.
The result analysis showedthat many false negatives are due to caseswhen the piece of news is quite small, seefor instance Example 5 where ?Swine flu?
isonly found in the first two sentences, whichimplies the repetition criteria does not apply(and the system misses the document).Table 2 shows the accuracy of the infor-mation entered into semantic slots, respec-4http://sites.google.com/site/iesystemcoling20108China has 100 cases of swine flu: state mediaChina has 100 confirmed cases of swine flu, state media said Tuesday, as data from theWorld Health Organization showed the disease had spread to 73 countries.
?The health ministry has reported that so far, China has 100 confirmed cases of A(H1N1)flu,?
said a news report on state television CCTV.
The report said the 100 cases were inmainland China, which does not include Hong Kong or Macau.Figure 5: Example in English: Disease name not in ?relevant content?Language Recall Precision F-measureFrench 93% 88% 90%English 88% 84% 86%Chinese 92% 85% 88%Table 1: Selecting documentsLanguage Diseases Locations CasesFrench 88% 87% 81%English 81% 81% 78%Chinese 82% 79% 77%Table 2: Accuracy in filling slotstively name of disease, location and numberof cases.
It is important to say that the de-scriptors extracted are really reliable in spiteof the fact that the annotated set used forevaluation is fairly small: 100 documents perlanguage, 30 to 40 of which were marked asrelevant.
The extraction of cases performs abit worse than that of locations but the loca-tion is the most important to our end-users.5 Discussion and ConclusionMost research in Information Extraction (IE)focuses on building independent systems foreach language, which is time and resourceconsuming.
To the contrary, using commonfeatures of news discourse saves time.
Thesystem is not quite independent, but it al-lows filtering news feeds and it provides rea-sonable information even when no resourcesat all are available.
Our results on Englishare worse than some existing systems (about93% precision for Global health Monitor forinstance) but these systems need strong re-sources and are not multilingual.
We thenreally need a multilingual baseline to com-pare both approaches.Recall is important for an alert system,but is very difficult to assess in the case ofepidemiological surveillance.
This measureis always problematic for web based docu-ments, due to the fact that any randomlychecked sample would only by sheer luck con-tain all the positive documents.
The assump-tion here is that no important news has beenmissed by Medisys, and that no importantnews filtered from Medisys has been rejected.One explanation for missed articles liesin the definition of the article header: it istoo rigid.
While this is fine for standardsize news, it is inappropriate for short news,hence meaningful repetitions are missed inthe short news.
This is a flaw, because firstalerts are often short news.
In the future, wemay wish to define a discourse wise detectionrule to improve the location slot filling.
Theextraction of locations is currently plaguedby a very long list of countries and capitals,most of which is not useful.
Locations are ac-tually mentioned in data according to states,provinces, prefectures, etc.
The country listmight be abandoned, since we do not favourexternal resources.The methods that are presented heremaintain good reliability in different lan-guages, and the assumption that genre lawsare useful has not been challenged yet.
Lightresources, about 750 items (to be comparedto tens of thousands in classical IE sys-tems), make it possible to strongly divide theamount of work needed for processing newlanguages.
It might be attempted to refinethe simple hypotheses underlying the pro-9gram and build a better system for filteringrelevant news.
This approach is best suitedwhen combined with elaborate pattern-basedIE modules when available.
Repetition canbe checked for selecting documents prior toresource intensive semantic processing.
Itcan also provide a few, easily fixable and effi-cient preliminary results where language re-sources are scarce or not available at all.ReferencesAtkinson, Martin and Erik Van der Goot.
2009.Near real time information mining in multilin-gual news.
In 18th International World WideWeb Conference (WWW2009).Efimenko, Irina, Vladimir Khoroshevsky, andVictor Klintsov.
2004.
Ontosminer family:Multilingual ie systems.
In SPECOM 2004:9th Conference Speech and Computer.Etzioni, Oren, Michele Banko, Stephen Soder-land, and Daniel S. Weld.
2008.
Open in-formation extraction from the web.
Commun.ACM, 51(12):68?74.Gey, Fredric, Jussi Karlgren, and Noriko Kando.2009.
Information access in a multilingualworld: transitioning from research to real-world applications.
SIGIR Forum, 43(2):24?28.Grishman, Ralph, Silja Huttunen, and RomanYangarber.
2002.
Information extraction forenhanced access to disease outbreak reports.Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 35(4):236?246.Itule, Bruce and Douglas Anderson.
2006.
NewsWriting and Reporting for Today?s Media.McGraw-Hill Humanities.Linge, JP, R Steinberger, T P Weber, R Yan-garber, E van der Goot, D H Al Khudhairy,and N I Stilianakis.
2009.
Internet surveil-lance systems for early alerting of threats.
Eu-rosurveillance, 14.Lucas, Nadine.
2004.
The enunciative structureof news dispatches, a contrastive rhetoricalapproach.
Language, culture, rhetoric, pages154?164.MUC.
1992.
Proceedings of the 4th Confer-ence on Message Understanding, MUC 1992,McLean, Virginia, USA, June 16-18, 1992.MUC.
1993.
Proceedings of the 5th Conferenceon Message Understanding, MUC 1993, Balti-more, Maryland, USA, August 25-27, 1993.Poibeau, Thierry, Horacio Saggion, and RomanYangarber, editors.
2008.
MMIES ?08: Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on Multi-source Mul-tilingual Information Extraction and Summa-rization, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Riloff, Ellen.
1996.
Automatically generatingextraction patterns from untagged text.
InAAAI/IAAI, Vol.
2, pages 1044?1049.Sperber, Dan and Deirdre Wilson.
1998.
Rele-vance: Communication and cognition.
Black-well press, Oxford U.K.Van Dijk, T.A.
1988.
News as discourse.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale N.J.Vergne, Jacques.
2002.
Une me?thode pourl?analyse descendante et calculatoire de corpusmultilingues: application au calcul des rela-tions sujet-verbe.
In TALN 2002, pages 63?74.10
