Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 182?185,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsOTTO: A Transcription and Management Tool for Historical TextsStefanie Dipper, Lara Kresse, Martin Schnurrenberger & Seong-Eun ChoInstitute of Linguistics, Ruhr University BochumD ?
44780 Bochumdipper@linguistics.rub.de, lara.kresse@rub.de,martin.schnurrenberger@rub.de, seong-eun.cho@rub.deAbstractThis paper presents OTTO, a transcriptiontool designed for diplomatic transcriptionof historical language data.
The tool sup-ports easy and fast typing and instant ren-dering of transcription in order to gain alook as close to the original manuscriptas possible.
In addition, the tool providessupport for the management of transcrip-tion projects which involve distributed,collaborative working of multiple partieson collections of documents.1 Corpora of Historical Languages1The only way to study historical languages is, ofcourse, by looking at texts, or corpora from theselanguages.
Compared to texts from modern lan-guages, early manuscripts or prints pose particularchallenges.
Depending on physical condition ofthe manuscripts, passages can be hard to decipher,or pages can be damaged or missing completely.Some texts contain words or passages that havebeen added later, e.g., to clarify the meaning of atext segment, or to correct (real or assumed) errors.Moreover, historical texts exhibit a largeamount of character peculiarities (special letters,punctuation marks, abbreviations, etc.
), which arenot easily encoded by, e.g., the ASCII encodingstandard.
For instance, medieval German texts of-ten use superscribed letters to represent emergingor remnant forms of diphthongs, e.g.
ou.
Some textsdistinguish two forms of the (modern) letter <s>,the so-called short vs. long s: <s> vs. <?>.
Con-versely, some texts do not differentiate betweenthe (modern) letters <u> and <v>.The existence of letter variants is often at-tributed to aesthetic reasons or to save (expen-1The research reported in this paper was financed byDeutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Grant DI 1558/1-1.We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for theirhelpful comments.sive) space.
Thus, when early manuscripts areto be transcribed, it must first be decided whetherthe differences between such variants are consid-ered irrelevant and, hence, can be safely ignored,or whether they constitute a (possibly) interestingphenomenon and potential research issue.This discussion relates to the level of tran-scription, i.e.
?how much of the information inthe original document is included (or otherwisenoted) by the transcriber in his or her transcrip-tion?
(Driscoll, 2006).
Diplomatic transcriptionaims at reproducing a large range of features of theoriginal manuscript or print, such as large initialsor variant letter forms.Another important issue with historical corporais meta-information.
A lot of research on histor-ical texts focuses on the text proper and its con-tent, rather than its language.
For instance, re-searchers are interested in the history of a text(?who wrote this text and where??
), its relation-ship to other texts (?did the writer know about orcopy another text??
), its provenance (?who werethe owners of this text??
), or its role in the cul-tural context (?why did the author write about thissubject, and why in this way??).
To answer suchquestions, information about past and current de-positories of a manuscript, peculiarities of the ma-terial that the text is written on, etc.
are collected.In addition, any indicator of the author (or writer)of the text is noted down.
Here, the text?s languagebecomes relevant as a means to gather informationabout the author.
Linguistic features can be used todetermine the text?s date of origin and the author?ssocial and regional affiliation.
Usually, this kindof information is encoded in the header (see, e.g.,the TEI header (TEI Consortium (eds), 2007)).2From the above, we derive the following re-quirements:Above all, use of Unicode is indispensable, to2Text Encoding Initiative, www.tei-c.org182be able to encode and represent the numerous spe-cial symbols and characters in a reliable and sus-tainable way.
Of course, not all characters that oc-cur in historical texts are already covered by thecurrent version of Unicode.
This is especially trueof character combinations, which are only sup-ported partially (the main reason being that Uni-code?s Combining Diacritical Marks focus on su-perscribed diacritics rather than characters in gen-eral).
Therefore, Unicode?s Private Use Area hasto be used as well.Similarly, there are characters without glyphsdefined and designed for them.
Hence, an idealtranscription tool should support the user in creat-ing new glyphs whenever needed.Since there are many more characters in histori-cal texts than keys on a keyboard, the transcriptiontool must provide some means to key in all char-acters and combinations (similar issues arise fromlogographic scripts, such as Chinese).
In princi-ple, there are two ways to do this:(i) The transcriber uses a virtual keyboard,which supports various character sets simultane-ously and is operated by the mouse.
Virtual key-boards are ?WYSIWYG?
in that their keys are la-beled by the special characters, which can then beselected by the user by mouse clicks.
As is wellknown, virtual keyboards are often preferred bycasual users, beginners, or non-experts, since theyare straightforward to operate and do not requireany extra knowledge.
However, the drawback isthat ?typing?
with a computer mouse is rather slowand tedious and, hence, not a long-term solution.
(ii) Alternatively, special characters, such as?$?, ?
@?, etc., are used as substitutes for historicalcharacters, commonly in combination with ordi-nary characters, to yield a larger number of char-acters that can be represented.
Regular and ad-vanced users usually prefer substitute charactersto virtual keyboards, because once the user knowsthe substitutes, typing them becomes very naturaland fast.
Of course, with this solution transcribershave to learn and memorize the substitutes.Some tools convert substitutes to the actualcharacters immediately after typing (this is thecase, e.g., with shortcuts in Emacs), while othersrequire additional post-processing by interpretersand viewers to display the intended glyphs (e.g.,LaTeX encodings converted to postscript).
Imme-diate preview seems advantageous in that it pro-vides immediate feedback to the user.
On the otherhand, it might be easier to memorize substitutes ifthe user can actually see them.Which input method is to be preferred for his-torical data?
Transcription projects often involveboth beginners and advanced users: having people(e.g.
student assistants) join and leave the team israther often the case, because transcribing is a verylabor- and time-intensive task.Our transcription tool OTTO faces this fact bycombining the advantages of the two methods.The user types and views character substitutes butsimultaneously gets feedback in a separate win-dow about whether the input is correct or not.
Thislessens the uncertainty of new team members andhelps avoiding typing mistakes, thus increasingthe quality of transcription.Another important requirement is the possibil-ity to mark additions, deletions, uncertain read-ings, etc.
To encode such information, TEI alsoprovides a standardized representation format.Finally, projects that involve multiple partiesdistributed over different sites add a further re-quirement.
In such scenarios, tools are preferablyhosted by a server and operated via a web browser.This way, there is no need of multiple installationsat different sites, and data on the server does notneed to be synchronized but is always up to date.To our knowledge, there is no transcription toolthat (i) would support Unicode, (ii) allow for fasttyping, using character substitutes, and (iii) isweb-based.
In MS Word, special characters areusually inserted by means of virtual keyboards butcharacter substitutes can be defined via macros.However, macros often pose problems when Wordis upgraded.
Moreover, Word is not web-based.LaTeX, which supports character substitutes, is of-ten considered too complex for non-expert users,does not offer instant preview, and is not web-based.2 The Transcription Tool OTTO3OTTO is an online transcription tool for editing,viewing and storing information of historical lan-guage data.
OTTO?s data model is a directedgraph.
Nodes point to a (possibly empty) stretchof primary data and are labeled.The tool is written in PHP and also uses someJava Script; data is stored in a mySQL database.3A prior version of OTTO has been described in Dipperand Schnurrenberger (2009).183Figure 1: Screenshot of the text editorAny server which runs PHP >5.2 can be a hostfor OTTO.
Users can login to the tool from any-where using a standard web browser.
A live demoof OTTO, with slightly restricted functionality,can be tried out here: http://underberg.linguistics.rub.de/ottolive.2.1 Transcribing with OTTOOTTO integrates a user-definable header editor, toenter meta information about the manuscript, suchas its title, author, date of origin, etc.
However, thetool?s core feature is the text editor.
The upper partof the text editor in Fig.
1 displays the lines thathave been transcribed and saved already.
Each lineis preceded by the bibliographic key, M117_sd2,the folio and line numbers, which are automati-cally generated.The bottom part is dominated by two separateframes.
The frame on the left, called Transcrip-tion, is the currently ?active?
field, where the userenters the transcription (or edits an existing one).The transcriber can use substitute characters to en-code non-ASCII characters.
In the figure, the dol-lar sign ($) serves as a substitute for long s (<?>,see the first word of the text, De$), and u\o standsfor ou (see Cu\onrat in the Transcription field at thebottom).The frame on the right, called Unicode, directlytransforms the user input to its diplomatic tran-scription form, using a set of transcription rules.The diplomatic Unicode view thus provides imme-diate feedback to the transcriber whether the inputis correct or not.Transcription rules have the form of ?search-and-replace?
patterns.
The first entity specifies thecharacter ?to be searched?
(e.g.
$), the second en-tity specifies the diplomatic Unicode character that?replaces?
the actual character.
Transcription rulesare defined by the user, who can consult a databasesuch as the ENRICH Gaiji Bank4 to look up Uni-code code points and standardized mappings forthem, or define new ones.
OTTO uses the Juni-code font, which supports many of MUFI?s me-dieval characters, partly defined in Unicode?s Pri-vate Use Area.5Rules can be defined locally?i.e., applying tothe current transcription only?or globally, i.e.,applying to all documents contained in OTTO?sdatabase.6 The rules are used to map the linesentered in the Transcription frame to the lines indiplomatic form in the Unicode frame.OTTO allows for the use of comments, which4http://beta.manuscriptorium.com/5Junicode: http://junicode.sourceforge.net/; MUFI (Medieval Unicode Font Initiative):http://www.mufi.info/6Global rules can be thought of as the application of aproject?s transcription criteria; local rules can be viewed ashandy abbreviations defined by individual users.184can be inserted at any point of the text.
Since thecurrent version of OTTO does not provide specialmeans to take record of passages that have beenadded, deleted, or modified otherwise, the com-ment mechanism could be exploited for this pur-pose.The transcription, both in original (typed) andin Unicode version, can be exported to a (cus-tomized) TEI-conform XML format.
Transcrip-tion rules are optionally included in the header.2.2 Transcription ProjectsProjects that deal with the creation of historicalcorpora often involve a cascade of successive pro-cessing steps that a transcription has to undergo.For instance, high-quality transcriptions are oftenentered twice, by two transcribers independentlyfrom each other, and their outcomes are comparedand adjusted.
In the case of diplomatic transcrip-tions, a further step called collating is necessary.Collating means comparing the transcription andthe original manuscript in full detail.
Often twopeople are involved: One person reads out themanuscript letter for letter, and also reports on anysuperscript, white-space, etc.
The other personsimultaneously tracks the transcription, letter forletter.
This way, high-quality diplomatic transcrip-tion can be achieved.To cope with the numerous processing steps,transcription projects often involve a lot of people,who work on different manuscripts (or differentpages of the same manuscript), in different pro-cessing states.OTTO supports such transcription projects inseveral aspects: First, it allows for remote accessto the database, via standard web browsers.
Sec-ond, documents that are currently edited by someuser are locked, i.e., cannot be edited or modi-fied otherwise by another user.
Third, OTTO pro-vides facilities to support and promote communi-cation among project members.
Finally, graphicalprogress bars show the progress for each transcrip-tion, measuring the ratio of the subtasks alreadycompleted to all subtasks,3 Conclusion and Future WorkThis paper presented OTTO, an online transcrip-tion tool for easy and fast typing, by the use ofuser-defined special characters, and, simultane-ously, providing a view on the manuscript that is asclose to the original as possible.
OTTO also sup-ports distributed, collaborative working of multi-ple parties on collections of documents.Future work includes adding further support fortranscribing special characters.
First, we plan tointegrate a virtual keyboard for casual users.
Thekeyboard can also be used in the creation of tran-scription rules, in order to specify the Unicode re-placement characters, or if the user wants to lookup the substitute character defined for a specificUnicode character in the set of transcription rules.We plan to use the TEI gaiji module for therepresentation of transcription rules and substitutecharacters; similarly, elements from the TEI tran-scr module could be used for the encoding of ad-ditions, deletions, etc.7For facilitating the collation process, we planto integrate transparent overlays.
The user wouldhave to rescale an image of the original manuscriptand adjust it to the transcription, so that corre-sponding characters would match.OTTO is designed as to allow for adding cus-tom functions, by being programmed accordingto the paradigm of object-oriented programming.Additional functionality can easily be integrated(known as Plug-Ins).
We currently work on in-tegrating a normalizer into OTTO which mapsspelling and dialectal variants of word forms to astandardized word form (Schnurrenberger, 2010).OTTO will be made freely available to the re-search community.ReferencesStefanie Dipper and Martin Schnurrenberger.
2009.OTTO: A tool for diplomatic transcription of histor-ical texts.
In Proceedings of 4th Language & Tech-nology Conference, Poznan, Poland.
To appear.Matthew J. Driscoll.
2006.
Levels of transcription.In Lou Burnard, Katherine O?Brien O?Keeffe,and John Unsworth, editors, Electronic TextualEditing, pages 254?261.
New York: ModernLanguage Association of America.
URL: http://www.tei-c.org/About/Archive_new/ETE/Preview/driscoll.xml.Martin Schnurrenberger.
2010.
Methods forgraphemic normalization of unstandardized writtenlang uage from Middle High German Corpora.
Mas-ter?s thesis, Ruhr University Bochum.TEI Consortium (eds).
2007.
TEI P5: Guidelines forelectronic text encoding and interchange.
http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/P5/.7http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/html/WD.html and PH.html185
