Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 First Workshop on Computational Neurolinguistics, pages 27?35,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsNetwork Analysis of Korean Word AssociationsGGJaeyoung Jung Li Na Hiroyuki AkamaTokyo Institute of Technology Tokyo Institute of Technology Tokyo Institute of Technology2-12-1, O-okayama, Meguro-ku 2-12-1, O-okayama, Meguro-ku 2-12-1, O-okayama, Meguro-kuTokyo, 152-8552, Japan Tokyo, 152-8552, Japan Tokyo, 152-8552, Japanjung.j.aa@m.titech.ac.jp li.n.ad@m.titech.ac.jp akama.h.aa@m.titech.ac.jpAbstractKorean Word Associations (KorWA) werecollected to build a semantic network for theKorean language.
A graphic representationapproach of applying coefficients to complexnetworks allows us to discern the semanticstructures within words.
A semantic networkof the KorWA was found to exhibit the scale-free property in its degree distribution.
Thegrowth of the network around hub words wasalso confirmed through two experimentalphases.
As an issue for further research, wesuggest that the present results may yield in-sights for computational neurolinguistics, as asemantic network of word association normscan bridge the gap between information aboutlexical co-occurrences derived from a corporaand anatomical networks as a basis for map-ping out neural activations.1 IntroductionLanguage is an intricate cognitive system.
Themental system, called a grammar by linguists, al-lows human beings to form and interpret thesounds, words, and sentences of their language.The system is often broken down into severalcomponents, such as phonetics, phonology, mor-phology, syntax, and semantics (O'Grady et al2005).
Depending on one?s concerns, the basicelements of each level (i.e.
phones, syllables, mor-phemes, words, or sentences) become the constitu-ents of linguistic networks of sound patterns,morphological structures, or syntactic organiza-tions.
Parse trees, for instance, which are oftenused in analyzing the syntactic structures of sen-tences, employ links to represent the syntagmaticrelationships between words.
However, focusingon the processes of conceptualizing feelings, ex-periences, and perceptions and of encoding them inwords (namely, lexicalization), linguists have fre-quently drawn another kind of linguistic networksubstantiated as a map of words projecting seman-tic structures and relations onto an Euclidian spacefrom a paradigmatic perspective.
In that sense,word association data is attractive in terms of easeof data manipulation, especially when making agraph from a list of word pairs.
Moreover, the toolsfor analyzing complex networks have been oftenapplied to analyzing the structural features withinlarge-scale word association data and to mininglexical knowledge from them.Since Galton (1880), word association has beenused as an empirical method for observing thoughtprocesses, memory, and mental states within clini-cal and cognitive psychology (Deese, 1965).
Froma linguistic perspective, word associations are un-doubtedly valuable language resources becausethey are rich sources of linguistic knowledge andlexical information.
The data has some uniquecharacteristics that are very interesting and usefulfor cultural studies, reflecting the life styles, social,cultural and linguistic backgrounds of the nativespeakers who contributed to the data collections.Such information could be particularly useful forfurther applications not only within semantic stud-ies but also for intelligent information retrieval,brain research, and language learning.In short, so-called word association norms arecrucial as large-scale paradigmatic corpora.
Theyconsist of word pair data based on psychologicalexperiments where the participants are typicallyasked to provide a semantically-related responseword that comes to mind upon presentation of astimulus word.
Two well-known word associationdata for English are the University of South Floridaword association, rhyme and word fragment norms27(Nelson et al, 1998) and the Edinburgh Word As-sociation Thesaurus of English (EAT; Kiss et al,1973).
For Japanese there are Ishizaki's Associa-tive Concept Dictionary (IACD) (Okamoto andIshizaki, 2001) and the Japanese Word AssociationDatabase (JWAD) (Joyce, 2005, 2006, 2007).
Util-izing computational linguistic techniques that aimto mathematically analyze their structures, raw as-sociation data is often transformed into some formof graph or complex network representation, wherethe vertices stand for words and the edges indicatean associative relationship (Miyake et al, 2007).Such techniques of graph representation and theiranalysis allow us to discern the patterns of connec-tivity within large-scale resources of linguisticknowledge and to perceive the inherent relation-ships between words and word groups.However, despite a long history of word associa-tion studies and the valuable contributions of suchdata to cognitive science, comprehensive, large-scale databases of Korean word association normshave been seriously inadequate.
In one study, Lee(1970) surveyed word associations based on 30adjectives and 29 words representing colors, tar-geting 40 university students and analyzed the re-sponse words for associative tendencies in terms ofgender and grammatical word classes.
More re-cently, Shin (1998) attempted to categorize wordsby conceptual systems in order to construct a lexi-cal dictionary supporting foreign language learners.Although her data differs from word associationnorms and is not available as an accessible digitaldatabase for academic purpose, the semantic clas-sification of the words can be exploited in com-plementing the analysis of Korean semanticnetworks.A collection of Korean word associations (forshort, KorWA) was planned and conducted withthe strong motivation of constructing a worthwhiledatabase of Korean word associations as a kind ofresource that has multiple applications in a numberof areas such as lexicography, language education,artificial intelligent, natural language processing,and cultural study.
Moreover, we intend to sharethe database on the web to foster these various po-tential utilities.In this paper, KorWA is represented into se-mantic networks and examined by some combina-torial methods in linguistics.
The details arepresented from the whole process of collecting thedata to the results of the analysis based on the the-ory of complex networks.
Furthermore, this paperbriefly discusses another important characteristic,dynamics in scale-free networks, which has re-cently attracted much attention in this researchfield.
Finally we will mention the applicability ofthe graph-based analysis developed here to the fu-ture potential researches of the computational neu-rolinguistics.2 Korean word associations2.1 Design of ExperimentPreparation of an association experiment beginswith the selection of a stimulus word set that is tobe presented to the respondent in order to initiatetheir association process.
Determining the stimu-lus word set is a crucial part in designing the ex-periment, as associative responses are greatlyinfluenced by the characteristics of the presentedwords, in particular, the stimulus word familiarityinfluences response heterogeneity, variability, rela-tional categories, and reaction times (Deese 1965).For the experiment of Korean word associations,we referred to a list of 5,000 Korean basic words(Seo et al 1998), which was derived from theYonsei Corpora consisting of 42,644,891 words asof 1998 [ILIS].
From the list, we compiled a list of3,951 words, consisting of 2,628 nouns, 1,006verbs, and 317 adjectives.One hundred and thirty-two native Korean stu-dents (71 males and 61 females) at Daejon Univer-sity, South Korea voluntarily participated in theexperiment.
The students were mainly from thedepartments of Korean language and literature(54%), physical therapy (30%), and philosophy(11%).
More than 70% of the students had educa-tional background in the humanities.
Most of thestudents (93%) were in their 20s; 82% between 20and 25 years old and 11% between 26 and 30 yearsold.
14% of students answered that on averagethey read more than five books in a month.
Thetask was conducted on the campus of DaejeonUniversity from September 2007 to February 2008.It was a traditional pen-and-paper based task.
Un-der the control of an instructor, each session of thetask lasted for 30 minutes.In the task, participants were instructed to writedown the response words that came to mind whenthey looked at the presented words.
We asked thesubjects to write down all the words that they28could think of from the presented words.
This pro-cedure is called the continuous free associationtask, differing from the discrete association taskwhere the subject is asked to only write down theirfirst response (Cramer 1968).As a means of naturally displaying continuousassociations, the respondents were asked to mapout their responses.
That is, they drew a kind ofassociative map for a given word, by adding a linewhen they made an association and numbering theresponses according to the order in which theycame to mind from the stimulus word.
In the ex-periment, an A5 size booklet was distributed to theparticipants.
The booklet had 66 pages printed onone-side, including 2 front-back cover pages.Figure 1.
Instructions about the task and exampleThe first 4 pages contained instructional informa-tion; (1) a brief description of the experiment?spurpose and its method, (2) a short survey for basicrespondent information (gender, age, major, andnumber of books read in a month), (3) an exampleillustrating what to do in the task (shown in Figure1), and (4) one practice before the task.
Then, theremaining 60 pages were for the word associationtask, printed with one word per page.
Thus, eachparticipant was asked to provide word associationresponses for 60 words.In total, 132 booklets were prepared for the task.A list of 60 words for each booklet was randomlyextracted from the 3,951 stimulus set.
Apart fromsix of the 132 sets, the lists included 40 nouns, 15verbs, and 5 adjectives.
The others had slightlydifferent numbers of the syntactic categories.However, eventually each stimulus word wasplanned to be presented to up to two subjects.As the result of approximately 6-month periodof data collection, we obtained 28,755 responses intotal for the 3,942 stimulus words (from the origi-nal stimulus set, nine words failed to elicit anyword associations).
The 28,755 responses (tokens)consisted of 11,275 distinct words (types).
Eachitem was presented to two respondents.The KorWA database (Figure 2) was con-structed from the collected word association re-sponses.
The data is arranged into six fields; (1) thepart of speech of the stimulus word, (2) the stimu-lus word, (3) the part of speech of the response, (4)response order, (5) raw form of the response, and(6) response word in standard form.Figure 2.
Contents of the KorWA database2.2 Basic AnalysisThe Korean word association data collected isbriefly summarized here in terms of the relationsbetween the stimulus words and the responses to-gether with some basic statistics.
The participantsproduced on average 218 responses (standard de-viation = 63.8, ranging from 98 to 482) for thecomplete set of 60 words in the free associationtask, which corresponds to 3.6 responses perstimulus word.
Because each stimulus item waspresented to two respondents, each stimulus has onaverage 7.3 association responses.29As already mentioned, our task was the continu-ous free association task where the respondent wasallowed to provide more than one response, sothere is the possibility of chaining responses wheresome association responses are elicited by priorresponses.
The response set of 28,755 tokens in-cludes all such responses.
Furthermore, it is possi-ble to extract the primary responses that weregiven as the first response produced for eachstimulus word.
In doing that, it is possible to con-vert the continuous free association task conditionto the discrete association task employed in otherexisting data.
The primary associates for the 3,942stimulus are 7,550 word tokens (4,197 types).
Theassociations seem to be related to the grammaticalclasses of the stimulus.
Ervin (1961) reports thatmany associations tend to have the same gram-matical class as the stimulus word.
Similarly, Jen-kins (1954) and Saporta (1955) provide aninteresting way of classifying association struc-tures into two modes, i.e.
paradigmatic associa-tions and syntagmatic ones.
In the former mode,the stimulus and response fit a common grammati-cal paradigm.
For example, the word ACTIONyields the associates of WORDS, LIFE,MOVEMENT, MOTION, GAME, and so on,which are not likely to occur as sequences in eve-ryday English.
In the latter case, the stimulus andresponse are generally contiguous, occupying dif-ferent positions within phrases or sentences.Namely, they often form sequences, as in the rela-tions between the stimulus word ofADMINISTRATIVE and its common associates ofDUTY, JOB, CONTROL, DISCIPLINE, POWER,BUREAUCRATS, POSITION, AGENCY,ENTITY, SCHOOL, BOSS, GOVERNMENT,RULE, etc.
(Deese 1965).
Deese (1962) clarifiedthe relative frequencies of paradigmatic and syn-tagmatic associations among the grammaticalclasses of English, especially with nouns, verbs,adjectives, and adverbs in his study.
He observedthat the tendency towards paradigmatic or syntag-matic association varied with word class; nouns aredominantly paradigmatic, while adjectives andverbs tend to be both paradigmatic and syntag-matic.
In the case of adjectives, it is a particularlyinteresting tendency for the association types tohave a strong correlation with frequency of usage.That is to say, for common adjectives, associationsare more likely to be paradigmatic (e.g.
for HOT,associates such as COLD, WARM, and COOLmore frequently occur than WOMEN, WEATHER,and the like), while uncommon adjectives are moresyntagmatic (e.g.
for ADMINISTRATIVE, associ-ates such as DUTY, GOVERNMENT, and RULEare more often produced than SUPERVISORY,EXECUTIVE, and so on).
What is more, mostparadigmatic associates to adjectives are eithersynonymous with the stimulus (COLD COOL) orthe opposite of the stimulus (COLD HOT).
Com-mon adjectives overwhelmingly have more anto-nyms as their response, but relatively low-frequentadjectives have more synonym associations.A similar tendency is observed in our data,which included three types of grammatical classamong the stimulus items, with nouns, verbs, andadjectives, covering 66.5%, 25.5%, and 8% of thestimulus set respectively.
The different proportionsof the word classes reflects their frequencies withinthe Yonsei corpora, i.e.
among the 5,000 most fre-quent words, there is a much larger number ofnouns, compared to verbs and adjectives.
By tag-ging the responses with parts of speech data duringthe course of constructing the database, we cananalyze the distributions of grammatical categoriesamong the responses.
The responses were over-whelmingly nouns (78%), followed by adjectives(7%), proper nouns (4.5%) and verbs (4.4%) indescending order.
Within the primary response list,the distributions of word class are not greatly dif-ferent, with 79% nouns, 6.7% adjectives, 4.8%verbs, 3.9% proper nouns, and around 6% others.Corresponding to the grammatical class of thestimulus specifically, nouns are also the dominantresponses.
When considering just the primary re-sponses, noun stimulus elicited mostly noun re-sponses (80%), followed by adjectives (6%),proper nouns (5%), and verbs (3%); verb stimulusproduced around 80% noun associates, 10% verbsand 4% adjectives; while for adjective stimulus,there were 70% noun responses, 19% adjectives,and 2% verbs.
In short, we found a majority ofnoun noun, verb noun, and adjective noun com-binations within the stimulus response relations.This demonstrates the association tendency fornouns to strongly elicit paradigmatic associations,as seen from the principal noun noun relations,while verbs and adjectives tend to yield more syn-tagmatic associations, as seen from the major rela-tions of verb noun and adjective noun.2.3 Network Analysis (1)30Degrees:  Recently, a number of studies have ap-plied graph theory approaches in investigating lin-guistic knowledge resources.
For instance, insteadof word frequency based computations, Dorow, etal (2005) utilize graph clustering techniques asmethods of detecting lexical ambiguity and of ac-quiring semantic classes.
Steyvers and Tenenbaum(2005) conducted a noteworthy study that exam-ined the structural features of three semantic net-works (free association norms of Nelson et al,Roget's thesaurus, and WordNet).
By calculating arange of statistical features, including the averageshortest paths, diameters, clustering coefficients,and degree distributions, they observed interestingsimilarities between three networks in terms oftheir scale-free patterns of connectivity and small-world structures.
Following their basic approach,we analyze the characteristics of the semantic net-work representation of KorWA by calculating thestatistical features of the graph coefficients, such asdegree and degree distribution.The semantic network representation of theword association network is constructed by repre-senting the words as nodes and associative pairinginformation for words as edges.
The degree (D) ofa node denotes the number of edges that a node has.An undirected graph is structured by the edges,while a directed graph is structured by arcs thatinclude the associative direction.
The numbers ofincoming and outgoing arcs from a node are re-ferred to as the in-degree and out-degree of a node,respectively.
The sum of the in-degree and out-degree values of a node is equal to its total degree.This concept of graph analysis allows us tocategorize the total words in the data into threetypes; one being words only found in the stimulusset (S-type), one being words occurred as bothstimulus and responses (SR-type), and the last be-ing words only observed among the response set(R-type).
The proportion of S-type, SR-type, andR-type words in the total word set corresponds to12.2% (1,568 words), 18.5% (2,374 words), and69.3% (8,901 words) respectively.
Here, it is worthfocusing on the SR-type of words.
These are wordsselected as the most frequent ones through a large-scale corpus covering various fields.
At the sametime, they also are produced by people in the freeassociation task.
This may indicate, in some sense,the high usability or commonness of those words.Indeed, the most frequent words in this data allbelong to the SR-type.2.4 Network Analysis (2)Scale-free: The most frequent words belonging tothe SR-type play the role of hubs in semantic net-works made from word association data.
Thesehubs can be represented as nodes that have notonly outgoing links but also possess ingoing links,which leads us think of a scale-free graph, such asthat incorporated within the Barab?si-Albert (BA)model.
It is widely known that Barab?si and Albert(1999) have suggested that the degree distributionsof scale-free network structures correspond to apower law, expressed as rddxP  !!
)(  (where dstands for degree and ?is a small integer, such as2 or 3).
This type of distribution is also known asZipf's law, which describes the typical frequencydistributions of words in a document and plots on alog scale as a falling diagonal stroke.
The degreedistribution of nodes in the KorWA network alsoexhibits this scale-free property, which has alsobeen observed in word association data for differ-ent languages.Figure 3.
Degree distribution on log-log scales for theKorWA semantic network.
P(k) is the probability that anode has k degrees in the network.However, we should stress the importance ofnetwork dynamics and of microscopically examin-ing the ongoing process of data accumulation todetermine whether the scale-freeness observed forword association data is derived from the samemechanism as the BA model.
Rather than beingstatic, networks are recognized as evolving overtime, with the adding or pruning of nodes andedges (Barab?si and Albert, 1999; Watts, 1999).Indeed, we can easily identify such networks in anumber of areas, from the World Wide Web to theinternet connections on a physical level, co-authorships, friendships, and business transactions.31According to the BA model, the probability thata node receives an additional link is proportional toits degree.
The probability that a new vertex willbe connected to a vertex (node) i  depends on theconnectivity of that vertex.
Barab?si and Albert(1999) explain with this idea of preferential at-tachment in terms of the scale-free property andthe presence of hubs within the network.
Networksas dynamical systems which grow over time andhave topological properties produce dynamicalbehaviors as well.
In particular with research onthe diffusion of a new trend or technology or thespread of a disease and virus, the structural proper-ties of the network have presented a new approachto understanding epidemical behaviors over a net-work, including issues about why contagion occursin certain cases, how it spreads, and what is themost efficient and effective way to prevent it.Many researchers have tried to address and analyzesuch behaviors with small-world models (Ball etal., 1997; Watts and Strogatz, 1998) and scale-freemodels (Pastor-Satorras and Vespignani, 2001).The semantic networks that we have examinedto date have similar structural properties to manyother networks.
So, it is also possible to explain thescale-free feature of semantic networks in terms ofpreferential attachment?
How can such dynamicbehavior be interpreted for semantic networks?
Inthe next section, we would like to briefly discussthose questions a little further.2.5 Network Analysis (3)Network Dynamics: It is a matter of fact that lan-guage evolves; especially from a lexical perspec-tive, where new vocabularies are generated and oldsenses sometimes disappear over time.
However,tracing and observing such changes is rather diffi-cult because such natural language evolution oc-curs over long periods of time.
When consideringthe evolution of semantic networks, therefore, weassume that the growth of a semantic network maycorrespond to the increases in the numbers ofwords (nodes) and semantic relations (edges) in asmore data is added in the construction of the net-work.
Particularly, for our semantic networkswhich are built from word association data, thenetworks grow as more word association data isadded.In this sense, we can attempt to observe thegrowth process for semantic networks here.
To thataim, the KorWA network is particularly suitable,as it is constructed from KorWA data collectedfrom two sessions that used exactly the same task.We may see how the network evolves by takingthe sessions as two separate points in time.From the beginning, the KorWA network startswith the 3,951 nodes that correspond to the set ofstimulus words.
It cannot be called a network atthis stage because there are no links between thesenodes.
Then, as the word associations are collected,a network starts to appear by adding edges betweenthe initial nodes and new nodes corresponding tothe association responses.
When the first session ofdata collection was complete, we found that theinitially disconnected 3,951 nodes forming a large,well-connected network, as presented in Table 1.Table 1.
Growth of the KorWA semantic network.The number of nodes had increased to 9,054,and 13,669 edges were generated between them.8,641 nodes corresponding to 95% of the totalnodes are connected to each other, being the larg-est component in the network, but, at the sametime, there were also 126 small partitions with 2 to3 nodes connected to each.
The pseudo diameter,the longest distance, of the largest component is 18,which indicates that the nodes within it are wellconnected to each other.
In this network, a nodehas three links on average and the distribution ofdegrees in the network shows a power law distribu-tion (P(k)~K-  with a degree exponent !=2.42), asin Figure 3 above.Then, additional word associations were col-lected for the same set of stimulus words in thesame manner as in the first session.
When the newdata was added to the first network, we obtained alarger network, as described in Table 1.
The net-work grew by 12,844 nodes and 26,931 edges.Through this process, more than 99.7% of nodes(12,807) became interconnected, leaving on 37words as elements disconnected from the wholegraph.
Moreover, the pseudo diameter of the larg-32est component became smaller despite the increasein its size.
The discrepancy in the degrees of wordsbecame larger than before, with a degree rangefrom 1 to 198.Table 2.
Top 20 words with the highest degrees be-fore and after growth of the KorWA network.Before growth After growthG?G(?money?
)/ 87??G(?love?
)/ 79??G(?friend?
)/ 56??G(?human?
)/ 48?G(?water?
)/ 48?G(?dream?)/45??G(?army?
)/ 45??G(?mind?
)/ 44?G(?house?
)/ 43??G(?tear?
)/ 43??G(?movie?)/39??G(?study?)/39?G(?eye/snow?
)/ 36?G(?book?
)/ 35?G(?alcohol?
)/ 34??G(?woman?
)/ 34?G(?myself?
)/ 33??G(?thing?
)/ 32???G(?car?
)/ 32??G(?family?
)/ 32G?G(?money?)/198??G(?love?
)/ 146??G(?friend?
)/ 114??G(?human?
)/ 106??G(?mind?
)/ 85??G(?woman?)/80?G(?water?
)/ 80??G(?study?
)/ 74??G(?tear?
)/ 73?G(?myself?
)/ 73?G(?dream?
)/ 70??G(?army?
)/ 69?G(?house?
)/ 69?G(?alcohol?
)/ 69?G(?book?
)/ 68?G(?eye/snow?
)/ 65??G(?fight?)/64??G(?war?
)/ 64??G(?movie?
)/ 63??G(?school?
)/ 63Note.
The number after the slash indicates the degree forthe word.Over time (as reflected in the first and secondsessions of data collection), 3,790 nodes and13,262 edges newly appeared in the KorWA net-work.
Through this growth, the network becamemuch more interconnected, as clearly evidenced bythe size of the largest component and the pseudodiameter.
What is particularly salient is the numberof links that a word has through the growth process.Interestingly, regardless of the double increase inthe connections within the network, around 60% ofthe total nodes were still poorly connected, havinga degree of only 1 or 2.
On the other hand, some ofnodes that already had plenty of links becamemuch richer, becoming linked to even more othernodes; with the average degree for 1% of the totalnodes being over 60.
Table 2 lists the top 20 wordsin terms of highest degree values before and aftergrowth.
The first four words do not change in order,while the shifts for the other top items are not sosignificant.
However, for most of these items, thedegree value roughly doubled.From these observations, we can assume thatthere are some words that attract more links fromother nodes, while most of these other words havejust a few connections.
This phenomenon appearseven more conspicuously through the growth proc-ess.
The scale-free nature of semantic networksalso seems to reflect a kind of preferential attach-ment.
What kinds of words always attract linksfrom new nodes?
As suggested already, these seemto be basic concept words, closely related to dailylife and culture, and these hubs form a kind ofbridge between several different conceptual do-mains.Such words contributing to the connectivity ofthe network are central to the dynamic behavior ofacross the networks, and are likely to be key con-cept words for understanding a culture and forlearning language within the contexts of semanticnetworks.
Further study and exploration in thestructural and dynamic characteristics within se-mantic networks may open up a new approach tosemantics, cultural studies, and language learningfrom a cognitive perspective.3 Conclusion and Further studyThis paper has described our dataset to representhuman language in the form of a network.
Withmuch interest in language as a communication andthinking tool, we have sought to build a semanticnetwork representing lexical knowledge and theconceptual relations between words.
To that aim,word association data is particularly suitable interms of its data format and its abundant and usefulcontent.
We presented a project to collect Koreanword association norms given the high utility andurgent need of data of this kind.
We have detailedthe project from the design of free association ex-periment to the basic analysis of the data collected.The application of the word association data tocomputational neurolinguistics is an issue for ourfuture work.
We believe that our study could po-tentially represent a breakthrough for this researchfield.
The methods of Mitchell et al (2008), forexample, suggest to us strong connections betweenneural activation data and lexical co-occurrenceinformation, obtained from text corpora whichplays a role of intermediating within linguistics33embodiment theory with a sensory-motor basis andamodal theory with computational models.
Ac-cording to Mitchell et al, the techniques of naturallanguage processing combined with neural linguis-tics can enable us to predict the patterns of neuralactivation for word stimuli for which fMRI dataare not yet available.
In short, the neural associa-tions within firing patterns turn out to be correlatedwith word associations within co-occurrence pat-terns.However, the similarity coefficient or the dis-tance between any two words might be computednot only from a set of documents but also fromgraphic representations of associative concepts,such as the one presented in this paper.
If it is truethat a word can be represented not only by a three-dimensional array of cerebral activation, but also interms of the lexical relatedness that is incorporatedas a linear combination of these patterns, it maynot be an overstatement to say that there might be astructural homology between natural neural net-works in the brain and semantic networks builtfrom word association norms.
This kind of meta-network perspective within cognitive science hasbecome all the more important because attempts tofill the gaps in the modeling of neural pathways areincreasingly attracting wide interest.
Sporns et al(2004), for instance, have tried to apply the con-ceptual methods of complex networks, such assmall word-scale free, to cortical networks and tothe more dynamic, functional and effective con-nectivity patterns that underlie human cognition.Similarly, Stam and Reijneveld (2007) have intro-duced a graph analysis applied to multi-channelrecordings of brain activity, by setting up verticesat the anatomical loci within a neural circuit andlinking some that elicit high correlation patterns tothe same stimulus.
Also within the experimentparadigms used by Mitchell et al some techniquesfor constructing a network model could be effec-tive for the distributional representation of corticalresponses handled at the same level as meaningproximity, even though Mitchell et al treated eachvoxel (volumetric pixel value in a 3-dimensionalregular grid) independently.
If such models of net-work settings could be applied to images of neuralactivation across all the voxels for a set of stimulusnouns, it is possible to assume, by a reverse proc-ess of parameter estimation, the existence of hid-den semantic layers composed of unknownsemantic features.
These intermediate factors couldbe compared with real vocabulary data, such asbasic verbs (as in the experiment conducted byMitchell et al) taking the stimulus nouns as sub-jects or targets.Moreover, the merits of introducing graphanalysis techniques to computational neurolinguis-tics could possibly be found in the evolutionarydynamics of networks, to the extent that the degreeof word nodes (or, more simply, their frequencies)could be weighted for the neural connectivity de-duced from fMRI responses.
The data formats ofneural activation patterns could then assimilatediachronic data to represent how a network growsover time around the key concepts or hub words, inaccordance with the learning processes of particu-lar individuals.
Future research from this perspec-tive could also support the high accuracy of similarexperiments regardless of distributional bias inword frequencies.
Briefly, semantic networks con-structed from word association data could conveythe lexical co-occurrence of words within docu-ments to a visual map of the human brain reactingto those words.34ReferencesD.
Mollison, F. Ball, and G. Scalia-Tomba.
1997.
Epi-demics with two levels of mixing, Annals of AppliedProbability 7, pp.
46-89.A.-L. Barab?si, and R. Albert.
October 15, 1999.
Emer-gence of scaling in random networks.
Science,286:509-512.P.
Cramer.
1968.
Word association.
New York andLondon: Academic Press.J.
Deese.
1962.
"Form class and the determinants ofassociation", Journal of verbal learning and verbalbehavior, vol.
1, pp.
79-84.B.
Dorow, D. Sergi, D. Widdows, E. Moses, K. Ling,and J. Eckmann.
2005.
"Using Curvature andMarkov Clustering in Graphs for Lexical Acquisitionand Word Sense Discrimination", in MEANING-2005, 2nd Workshop organized by the MEANINGProject.F.
Galton.
1880.
"Psychometric experiments", Brain 2,pp.
149-162.S.
Saporta, 1955.
Linguistic structure as a factor and asa measure in word association, in J. J. Jenkins (Ed.
),Associative process in verbal behavior: A Report ofMinnesota Conference, Minneapolis: University ofMinnesota.T.
Joyce.
2005.
Lexical association network maps forbasic Japanese vocabulary, in Words in Asia culturalcontexts, V. B. Y. Ooi, A. Pakir, I. Talib, L. Tan, P.K.
W. Tan, and Y. Y. Tan (Eds.).
Singapore: Na-tional University of Singapore, pp.
114-120.G.
R. Kiss.
1968.
Words associations and networks,Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior,vol.7, pp.
707-13.Y.
J. Lee.
1970.
Comparative studies on word associa-tions by male and female university students: basedon adjectives and color-referring words (translatedfrom ??
????
?????
??
????:????
????
????
), ???
??
???
9?.
???
344.C.
L. McEvoy and D. L. Nelson.
1982.
Category nameand instance norms for 106 categories of varioussizes, American Journal of Psychology 95, pp.
581-634.H.
Akama, J. Jung, M. Miyake, and T. Joyce.
2007.Hierarchical Structure in Semantic Networks ofJapanese Word Associations, PACLIC21 (PacificAsia Conference on Language, Information, andComputation-2007), pp.321-328.A.
Carlson, K. Chang, M. Just, R. Mason, S. Shinkareva,T.
Mitchell, and V. Malave.
2008.
Predicting humanbrain activity associated with the meanings of nouns.Science, 320:1191?1195.C.
L. McEvoy and D. L. Nelson.
2005.
Implicitly acti-vated memories: The missing links of remembering,In  Human learning and memory: Advances in theoryand application, C. Izawa and N. Ohta (Eds.).
Mah-wah, NJ and London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, ,pp 177-198.J.
Archibald, J. Rees-Miller, M. Aronoff, and W.O'Grady.
2005.
Contemporary Linguistics: An intro-duction, 5th ed.
Boston & New York: Bedford/St.Martin's.J.
Okamoto and S. Ishizaki.
2001.
"Construction ofassociative concept dictionary with distanceinformation, and comparison with electronic conceptdictionary (translated from ????????????????????
)", ?????
?, vol.
8,pp.
37-54.A.
Vespignani, and R. Pastor-Satorras.
2001.
Epidemicspreading in scale-free networks, Physical ReviewLetter.
86. pp.
3200-3203.H.
S. Shin.
1998.
"Korean vocabulary teaching andsemantic dictionary (translated from ????????
????
)", ?????
vol.
9, no.2,pp.
85-104.G.
H. Jin, N. J. Nam, and S. G. Seo.
1998.
"Determina-tion of basic vocabulary for Korean language educa-tion as a foreign language (translated from??????
???
???
??
??????
)", 1st year of annual report (December 14,1998), Internationalization of Korean language pro-motion committee, Ministry of Culture, Sports, andTourism.C.
C. Hilgetag, D. R. Chialvo, M. Kaiser, and O. Sporns.9 September 2004.
"Organization, development andfunction of complex brain networks", TRENDS inCognitive Sciences Vol.8 No.C.
J. Stam, J. C. Reijneveld.
2007.
"Graph theoreticalanalysis of complex networks in the brain".
Non-linear Biomedical Physics.J.
B. Tenenbaum and M. Steyvers.
2005.
?The large-scale Structure of Semantic Networks: StatisticalAnalysis and a Model of Semantic Growth?, Cogni-tive Science 29, pp.41-78.D.
J. Watts and S. Strogatz.
June 1998.
"Collective dy-namics of 'small-world' networks".
Nature 393,pp.440?442.35
