Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 166?171,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsCreating and Exploiting a Resource of Parallel ParsesChristian Chiarcos?
and Kerstin Eckart??
and Julia Ritz??
Collaborative Research Centre 632 ??
Collaborative Research Centre 732?Information Structure?
?Incremental Specification in Context?Universita?t Potsdam Universita?t Stuttgart{chiarcos|jritz}@uni-potsdam.de eckartkn@ims.uni-stuttgart.deAbstractThis paper describes the creation of a re-source of German sentences with multi-ple automatically created alternative syn-tactic analyses (parses) for the same text,and how qualitative and quantitative inves-tigations of this resource can be performedusing ANNIS, a tool for corpus queryingand visualization.
Using the example ofPP attachment, we show how parsing canbenefit from the use of such a resource.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we describe the workflow and theinfrastructure to create and explore a corpus thatcontains multiple parses of German sentences.
Acorpus of alternative parses created by differenttools allows us to study structural differences be-tween the parses in a systematic way.The resource described in this paper is a collec-tion of German sentences with -ung nominaliza-tions extracted from the SDEWAC corpus (Faa?et al, 2010), based on the DEWAC web corpus(Baroni and Kilgarriff, 2006).
These sentencesare employed for the study of lexical ambigui-ties in German -ung nominalizations (Eberle et al,2009); e.g., German Absperrung, derived from ab-sperren ?to block?, can denote an event (?block-ing?
), a state (?blockade?)
or an object (?barrier?
).Sortal disambiguation, however, is highly context-dependent, and reliable and detailed analyses ofthe linguistic context are crucial for a sortal dis-ambiguation of these nominalizations.More reliable and detailed linguistic analysescan be achieved, for example, by combining theinformation produced by different parsers: On thebasis of qualitative and quantitative analyses, gen-eralized rules for the improvement of the respec-tive parsers can be developed, as well as rules forthe mapping of their output to a tool-independentrepresentation, and weights for the parallel appli-cation and combination of multiple parsers.
Thisapproach has been previously applied to morpho-logical and morphosyntactic annotations (Borin,2000; Zavrel and Daelemans, 2000; Tufis?, 2000),but only recently to syntax annotation (Francomand Hulden, 2008; de la Clergerie et al, 2008).Because of the complexity of syntax annotationsas compared to part of speech tags, however, noveltechnologies have to be applied that allow us torepresent, to visualize and to query multiple syn-tactic analyses of the same sentence.This paper describes the workflow from raw textto a searchable representation of the corpus.
Oneof the aims of this new resource is to assess po-tential weaknesses in the parsers as well as theircharacteristic strengths.
For the example of am-biguities in PP attachment, Sect.
4 shows how lin-guistic analyses can be improved by combining in-formation from different parsers.2 ParsingIn order to maximize both coverage and gran-ularity of linguistic analyses, we chose parsersfrom different classes: A probabilistic constituentparser and a rule-based parser that produces se-mantically enriched dependency parses.2.1 BitParBitPar (Schmid, 2006) is a probabilistic contextfree parser using bit-vector operations (Schmid,2004).
Node categories are annotated along withgrammatical functions, part-of-speech tags andmorphological information in a parse tree.
BitParanalyses are conformant to the TIGER annotationscheme (Brants et al, 2004), and the tool?s outputformat is similar to the list-based bracketing for-mat of the Penn Treebank (Bies et al, 1995).
TheBitPar analysis of sentence (1) is visualized as theright-most tree in Fig.
1.166(1) DertheDaxDaxreagiertreactsderzeitpresentlyaufondietheMeldungenmessagesausfromLondon.London?Presently, the Dax [German stock index,N.B.]
is reacting to the news from London.
?2.2 B3 ToolThe second parser applied here is the B3 Tool(Eberle et al, 2008), a rule-based parser thatprovides syntactic-semantic analyses that com-bine dependency parsing with FUDRT represen-tations.1 The B3 Tool is developed on the basisof a research prototype by Lingenio2 in the con-text of a project on lexical ambiguities in Germannominalizations3.For further processing, the output of the B3 Toolis converted into a PTB-style bracketing formatsimilar to that used by BitPar.
This transformationinvolves the generation of a constituency graphfrom the original dependency analysis: In the firststep, rules are used that insert nodes and projec-tions as described by Eberle (2002).
Then, anothertransformation step is necessary: As the B3 Toolaims for an abstract, flat semantics-oriented struc-ture, certain aspects of the surface structure are notrepresented in its output and need to be restored inorder to create analyses that can be aligned withconstituent-based representations.
For example,punctuation marks do not appear as leaves of thesyntactic tree, as their contribution is included inthe description of the head verb.
Similarly, aux-iliaries are not represented as individual words inthe B3 output, as their tense and aspect informa-tion is integrated with the event description thatcorresponds to the head verb.4 As we focus on theintegration of multiple syntactic analyses, leavesfrom the B3 Tool output that represent semanticinformation were not considered, e.g., informationon coreference.The converted B3 analysis of sentence (1) is vi-sualized as the left tree in Fig.
1.1Flat Underspecified Discourse Representation Theory(Eberle, 1997; Eberle, 2004)2http://www.lingenio.de/English/3Project B3 of the Collaborative Research Centre (Son-derforschungsbereich) SFB 732, Stuttgart, Germany.4For the study described here, punctuation marks wereadded to the surface structure but auxiliaries not yet.
Thereare several possible approaches to dealing with these struc-tural aspects (e.g.
inserting empty elements, converting Bit-Par into B3-like representations, etc.).
The discussion ofthese strategies is, however, beyond the scope of this tech-nical paper.3 Querying and Visualizing AlternativeParsesIn order to integrate multiple annotations createdby different tools, we employ a generic XML for-mat, PAULA XML (Dipper and Go?tze, 2005).PAULA XML is an XML linearization of the datamodel underlying the ANNIS data base.5 It iscomparable to NITE XML (Carletta et al, 2005)and GrAF (Ide, 2007).
PAULA XML supports di-verse data structures (trees, graphs, and flat spansof tokens) and allows for conflicting hierarchies.The integrated PAULA representation of themultiple-parses corpus can be accessed using AN-NIS, a web interface for querying and visualizingrichly annotated corpora.
Fig.
1 shows the ANNISinterface: top left is the query field; below that isthe ?match count?
field (presenting the number ofinstances matching the query).
Below this field isthe list of corpora the user choses from.
Matchesare visualized in the right window.
Tokens andtoken-level annotations are shown in a Key WordIn Context (KWIC) view (upper part of the searchresult pane in Fig.
1), e.g., B3 morphology (2ndrow), BitPar parts of speech (3rd row), and BitParmorphology (4th row).
Trees are visualized withthe Tree view (below KWIC view).4 Exploiting multiple parsesThe goal of our research is to develop rules forthe combination of BitPar and B3 parses such thatthe resulting merged parse provides more reliablelinguistic analyses than the ones provided by ei-ther alone.
The rule-based B3 Tool provides deepsemantic analyses.
B3 parses are thus generallyricher in information than BitPar parses.
Certainambiguities, however, are not resolved but ratherrepresented by underspecification.
In this section,we explore the possibility to employ BitPar parsesto resolve such underspecifications.4.1 Studying PP attachment in ANNISThe attachment of prepositional phrases is oftenambiguous between high attachment (e.g., PP as aclausal adjunct) and low attachment (PP as a nom-inal modifier).
In such cases, the B3 Tool employsunderspecification, which is represented by a spe-cial edge label xprep.65PAULA and ANNIS have been developed at the Col-laborative Research Centre 632, http://www.sfb632.uni-potsdam.de/?d1/annis/.6The xprep label indicates underspecification as towhether the PP has to be attached to its parent node or a node167Figure 1: ANNIS2 screenshot with query resultsfor QUERY 1Using ANNIS, we retrieve all cases where a Bit-Par PP corresponds to a B3 PP with the edge la-beled xprep (the query used to accomplish thiswill be referenced by QUERY 1 in the following).Fig.
1 illustrates an example match: The B3 PP(left tree) is attached to the root node with an edgelabel xprep; in the BitPar analysis (right tree),the prepositional phrase is correctly attached to theother PP node.Using an extended query, we conducted a quan-titative analysis comparing the node labels as-signed to the parent node of the respective PPs inBitPar parses and B3 parses.Considering only those matches where the B3parent node was either VP or S (85%, 35 of 41),high attachment is indicated by BitPar labels VPor S for the BitPar parent node (34%, 12 of 35)and low attachment by labels PP or NP (66%, 23of 35).
BitPar thus distinguishes low and high PPattachment, with a preference for low attachmentin our data set.Results of a subsequent qualitative analysis ofthe first 20 matches retrieved by this query aresummarized in Tab.
1: Only 16% (3 of 19) Bit-Par predictions are incorrect, 32% (6 of 19) arepossible (but different attachment would have pro-duced a felicitous reading), and 53% (10 of 19) arecorrect.
BitPar analyses of PP attachment are thusBitPar prediction correct possible incorrect totallow 57% 36% 7% 14high 40% 20% 40% 5low or high 53% 32% 16% 19??
one match (non-sentence) excludedTable 1: Qualitative analysis of the first 20matchesrelatively reliable, and where the B3 Tool indicatesunderspecification with respect to PP attachment,the point of attachment can be adopted from theBitPar parse.
With such a merging of BitPar parsesand B3 parses, a more detailed and more reliableanalysis is possible.4.2 Merging B3 and BitPar parsesWith the information from the comparison of Bit-Par and B3 Tool attachments, a workflow is imag-inable where both parsers are applied in paral-lel, and then their output is merged into a com-mon representation.
As opposed to traditional ap-proaches that reduce parse integration to a selec-dominated by its parent.168tion between entire parses, cf.
Crysmann et al(2002), we employ a full merging between B3parses and BitPar parses.
This merging is basedon hand-crafted rules that express preferences be-tween pieces of information from one parse or theother in accordance with the results of quantitativeand qualitative analyses as described above.B3 parses can be enriched with structural infor-mation from BitPar, e.g., by the following exem-plaric rule:7 if the B3 parse indicates underspec-ification with respect to the PP attachment point(QUERY 1), establish a dominance edge between(i) the correspondent of the Bitpar PP (the PP?from London?
in the example) and (ii) the corre-spondent of its parent node (the PP ?to the news?
),and delete the original, underspecified B3 edge.The same procedure can also be applied to per-form corrections of a parse, if further quantitativeand qualitative studies indicate that, for example,the B3 parser systematically fails at a particularphenomenon.In some cases, we may also want to employcontext-dependent rules to exploit the advanta-geous characteristics of a specific parser, e.g., topreserve ambiguities.
Example (2) illustrates thatPP attachment has an effect on the sortal interpre-tation of Absperrung ?barrier/blocking/blockade?
:Different points of attachment can produce dif-ferent possible readings.
The PP by the policespecifies the subject of the nominalized verb ab-sperren ?to block?.
This indicates that here, theevent/state readings are preferred over the object(=entity) reading.
(2) DietheFeuerwehrfire brigadeunterstu?tztesupporteddietheAbsperrungblockingdurchbydiethePolizei.police?The fire brigade supported the police?sblockade/blocking.
?5 ConclusionIn this paper, we described the creation of a re-source of German sentences with parallel parsesand the infrastructure employed to exploit this re-source.
We also identified possible fields of ap-plication for this resource: By querying this re-source one finds strong tendencies regarding therelative reliability and level of detail of different7Other formulations are possible, see Heid et al (2009)for the enrichment of BitPar parses with lexical knowledgefrom B3 parses.parsers; on this basis, the strengths of several toolscan be weighted, as represented, e.g., by general-ized, context-dependent rules to combine the out-put of multiple parsers.
Here, this approach wasillustrated for two parsers and their combination todisambiguate PP attachment as part of a study ofGerman -ung nominalizations.
A future perspec-tive could be to add more tools to the comparison,find out their characteristic strengths and performa sort of weighted voting to decide when an ana-lysis should be enhanced by the information fromanother one.We have shown that the infrastructure providedby the ANNIS data base and the underlying dataformat PAULA can be employed to conduct thiskind of research.
Although originally developedfor different purposes (representation and query-ing of richly annotated corpora), its generic char-acter allowed us to apply it with more than satis-factory results to a new scenario.Subsequent research may further exploit the po-tential of the ANNIS/PAULA infrastructure andthe development of application-specific exten-sions.
In particular, it is possible to register inANNIS a problem-specific visualization for par-allel parses that applies in place of the generictree/DAG view for the namespaces bitpar andb3.
Another extension pertains to the handling ofconflicting tokenizations: The algorithm describedby Chiarcos et al (2009) is sufficiently genericto be applied to any PAULA project, but it maybe extended to account for B3-specific deletions(Sect.
2.2).
Further, ANNIS supports an annota-tion enrichment cycle: Matches are exported asWEKA tables, statistical, symbolic or neural clas-sifiers can be trained on or applied to this data, andthe modified match table can be reintegrated withthe original corpus.
This allows, for example, tolearn an automatic mapping between B3 and Bit-Par annotations.AcknowledgementsCollaborative Research Centre 732 (Universita?tStuttgart) and Collaborative Research Centre 632(Humboldt Universita?t zu Berlin and Universita?tPotsdam) are funded by Deutsche Forschungsge-meinschaft (DFG).169ReferencesMarco Baroni and Adam Kilgarriff.
2006.
Largelinguistically-processed Web corpora for multiplelanguages.
In Proceedings of the 11th Conference ofthe European Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pages 87?90, Trento, Italy.EACL.Ann Bies, Mark Ferguson, Karen Katz, andRobert MacIntyre.
1995.
Bracketing guide-lines for treebank ii style penn treebankproject.
ftp://ftp.cis.upenn.edu/pub/treebank/doc/manual/root.ps.gz(May 31, 2010).
version of January 1995.Lars Borin.
2000.
Something borrowed, somethingblue: Rule-based combination of POS taggers.
InProceedings of the 2nd International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2000),Athens, Greece, May, 31st ?
June, 2nd.Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Peter Eisenberg, Sil-via Hansen, Esther Ko?nig, Wolfgang Lezius, Chris-tian Rohrer, George Smith, and Hans Uszkoreit.2004.
TIGER: Linguistic interpretation of a Germancorpus.
Research on Language and Computation,2(4):597?620.Jean Carletta, Stefan Evert, Ulrich Heid, and JonathanKilgour.
2005.
The NITE XML Toolkit: datamodel and query.
Language Resources and Eval-uation Journal (LREJ), 39(4):313?334.Christian Chiarcos, Julia Ritz, and Manfred Stede.2009.
By all these lovely tokens...: merging con-flicting tokenizations.
In Proceedings of the ThirdLinguistic Annotation Workshop, pages 35?43.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Berthold Crysmann, Anette Frank, Kiefer Bernd, Ste-fan Mueller, Guenter Neumann, Jakub Piskorski,Ulrich Schaefer, Melanie Siegel, Hans Uszkoreit,Feiyu Xu, Markus Becker, and Hans-Ulrich Krieger.2002.
An integrated architecture for shallow anddeep processing.
In Proceedings of 40th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 441?448, Philadelphia, Pennsylva-nia, USA, July.Eric Villemonte de la Clergerie, Olivier Hamon,Djamel Mostefa, Christelle Ayache, PatrickParoubek, and Anne Vilnat.
2008.
PASSAGE:from French Parser Evaluation to Large SizedTreebank.
In Proceedings of the 6th Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008),Marrakech, Morocco, May.Stefanie Dipper and Michael Go?tze.
2005.
AccessingHeterogeneous Linguistic Data ?
Generic XML-based Representation and Flexible Visualization.
InProceedings of the 2nd Language & TechnologyConference 2005, pages 23?30, Poznan, Poland,April.Kurt Eberle, Ulrich Heid, Manuel Kountz, and KerstinEckart.
2008.
A tool for corpus analysis using par-tial disambiguation and bootstrapping of the lexicon.In Angelika Storrer, Alexander Geyken, AlexanderSiebert, and Kay-Michael Wu?rzner, editors, Text Re-sources and Lexical Knowledge ?
Selected Papersfrom the 9th Conference on Natural Language Pro-cessing (KONVENS 2008), pages 145?158, Berlin,Germany.
Mouton de Gruyter.Kurt Eberle, Gertrud Faa?, and Ulrich Heid.
2009.Proposition oder Temporalangabe?
Disambigu-ierung von -ung-Nominalisierungen von verba di-cendi in nach-PPs.
In Christian Chiarcos,Richard Eckart de Castilho, and Manfred Stede, ed-itors, Von der Form zur Bedeutung: Texte automa-tisch verarbeiten / From Form to Meaning: Process-ing Texts Automatically, Proceedings of the BiennialGSCL Conference 2009, pages 81?91, Tu?bingen.Gunter Narr Verlag.Kurt Eberle.
1997.
Flat underspecified representa-tion and its meaning for a fragment of German.
Ar-beitspapiere des Sonderforschungsbereichs 340, Nr.120, Universita?t Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany.Kurt Eberle.
2002.
Tense and Aspect Informationin a FUDR-based German French Machine Trans-lation System.
In Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle, edi-tors, How we say WHEN it happens.
Contributionsto the theory of temporal reference in natural lan-guage, pages 97?148.
Niemeyer, Tu?bingen.
Ling.Arbeiten, Band 455.Kurt Eberle.
2004.
Flat underspecified representationand its meaning for a fragment of German.
Habil-itationsschrift, Universita?t Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Ger-many.Gertrud Faa?, Ulrich Heid, and Helmut Schmid.
2010.Design and application of a Gold Standard for mor-phological analysis: SMOR as an example of mor-phological evaluation.
In Proceedings of the seventhinternational conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC), Valetta, Malta.Jerid Francom and Mans Hulden.
2008.
Parallel Multi-Theory Annotations of Syntactic Structure.
In Pro-ceedings of the Sixth International Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC 2008), Marrakech,Morocco, May.Ulrich Heid, Kurt Eberle, and Kerstin Eckart.
2009.Towards more reliable linguistic analyses: workflowand infrastructure.
Poster presentation at the GSCL2009 workshop: Linguistic Processing Pipelines,Potsdam.Nancy Ide.
2007.
GrAF: A Graph-based Format forLinguistic Annotations.
In Proceedings of the LAWWorkshop at ACL 2007, Prague.Helmut Schmid.
2004.
Efficient Parsing of HighlyAmbiguous Context-Free Grammars with Bit Vec-tors.
In Proceedings of the 20th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics, Coling?04,volume 1, pages 162?168, Geneva, Switzerland.170Helmut Schmid.
2006.
Trace Prediction and RecoveryWith Unlexicalized PCFGs and Slash Features.
InProceedings of COLING-ACL 2006, Sydney, Aus-tralia.Dan Tufis?.
2000.
Using a large set of EAGLES-compliant morpho-syntactic descriptors as a tagsetfor probabilistic tagging.
In Proceedings of the 2ndInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC 2000), pages 1105?1112,Athens, Greece, May, 31st ?
June, 2nd.Jakub Zavrel and Walter Daelemans.
2000.
Boot-strapping a Tagged Corpus through Combination ofExisting Heterogeneous Taggers.
In Proceedingsof the 2nd International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2000), Athens,Greece, May, 31st ?
June, 2nd.171
