Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Finding the Common Ground, ACL 2010, pages 34?42,Uppsala, Sweden, 16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Cross-Lingual Induction Technique for German Adverbial ParticiplesSina Zarrie?
Aoife Cahill Jonas Kuhn Christian RohrerInstitut fu?r Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung (IMS)University of StuttgartStuttgart, Germany{zarriesa,cahillae,jonas.kuhn,rohrer}@ims.uni-stuttgart.deAbstractWe provide a detailed comparison ofstrategies for implementing medium-to-low frequency phenomena such as Ger-man adverbial participles in a broad-coverage, rule-based parsing system.
Weshow that allowing for general adverb con-version of participles in the German LFGgrammar seriously affects its overall per-formance, due to increased spurious am-biguity.
As a solution, we present acorpus-based cross-lingual induction tech-nique that detects adverbially used par-ticiples in parallel text.
In a grammar-based evaluation, we show that the auto-matically induced resource appropriatelyrestricts the adverb conversion to a limitedclass of participles, and improves parsingquantitatively as well as qualitatively.1 IntroductionIn German, past perfect participles are ambigu-ous with respect to their morphosyntactic cate-gory.
As in other languages, they can be usedas part of the verbal complex (example (1-a)) oras adjectives (example (1-b)).
Since German ad-jectives can generally undergo conversion into ad-verbs, participles can also be used adverbially (ex-ample (1-c)).
All three participle forms in (1) aremorphologically identical.
(1) a. Das Experiment hat ihn begeistert.
?The experiment has enthused him.?b.
Er scheint von dem Experiment begeistert.
?He seems enthusiastic about the experiment.?c.
Er hat begeistert experimentiert.
?He has experimented in an enthusiastic way?
or:?He was enthusiastic when he experimented.
?This paper adresses the question of how to dealwith medium-to-low frequency phenomena suchas adverbial participles in a broad-coverage, rule-based parsing system.
In order to account for sen-tences like (1-c), an intuitive approach would be togenerally allow for adverb conversion of partici-ples in the grammar.
However, on the basis of theGerman LFG grammar (Rohrer and Forst, 2006),we show that such a rule can have a strong negativeon the overall performance of the parsing system,despite the fact that it produces the desired syntac-tic and semantic analysis for specific sentences.This trade-off between large-scale, statisticaland theoretically precise coverage is often en-countered in engineering broad-coverage and, atthe same time, linguistically motivated parsingsystems: adding the analysis for a specific phe-nomenon does not necessarily improve the overallquality of the system since the rule might overgen-erate and interact with completely different phe-nomena in unpredicted ways.In principle, there are two ways of dealing withsuch an overgeneration problem in a grammar-based framework: First, one could hand-craftword lists or other linguistic constraints that re-strict the adverb conversion to a certain set of par-ticiples.
Second, one could try to mine corpora forthis particular type of adverbs and integrate thisautomatically induced knowledge into the gram-mar (i.e.
by means of pre-tagged input, word lists,etc.).
In the case of adverbial participles, bothways are prone with difficulties.
To our knowl-edge, there has not been much theoretical work onthe linguistic properties of the participle adverbconversion.
Moreover, since the distinction be-tween (predicative) adjectives and adverbs is the-oretically hard to establish, the standard tag setfor German and, in consequence, annotated cor-pora for German do not explicitly capture this phe-nomenon.
Thus, available statistical taggers andparsers for German usually conflate the syntacticstructures underlying (1-b) and (1-c).In this paper, we present a corpus-based ap-proach to restricting the overgenerating adverbconversion for participles in German, exploiting34parallel corpora and cross-lingual NLP induc-tion techniques.
Since adverbs are often overtlymarked in other languages (i.e.
the ly-suffix inEnglish), adverbial participles can be straightfor-wadly detected on word-aligned parallel text.
Wedescribe the ingretation of the automatically in-duced resource of adverbial participles into theGerman LFG, and provide a detailed evaluation ofits effect on the grammar, see Section 5.While the use of parallel resources is ratherfamiliar in a wide range of NLP domains, suchas statistical machine translation (Koehn, 2005)or annotation projection (Yarowsky et al, 2001),our work shows that they can be exploited forvery specific problems that arise in deep linguis-tic analysis (see Section 4).
In this way, high-precision, data-oriented induction techniques canclearly improve rule-based system developmentthrough combining the benefits of high empiricalaccuracy and little manual effort.2 A Broad-Coverage LFG for GermanLexical Functional Grammar (LFG) (Bresnan,2000) is a constraint-based theory of grammar.
Itposits two levels of representation, c(onstituent)-structure and f(unctional)- structure.
C-structureis represented by contextfree phrase-structuretrees, and captures surface grammatical configu-rations.
F-structures approximate basic predicate-argument and adjunct structures.The experiments reported in this paper use theGerman LFG grammar constructed as part of theParGram project (Butt et al, 2002).
The grammaris implemented in the XLE, a grammar develop-ment environment which includes a very efficientLFG parser.
Within the spectrum of appraochesto natural language parsing, XLE can be consid-ered a hybrid system combining a hand-craftedgrammar with a number of automatic ambiguitymanagement techniques: (i) c-structure pruningwhere, based on information from statstically ob-tained parses, some trees are ruled out before f-structure unification (Cahill et al, 2007), (ii) anOptimaly Theory-style constraint mechanism forfiltering and ranking competing analyses (Franket al, 2001), and (iii) a stochastic disambiguationcomponent which is based on a log-linear proba-bility model (Riezler et al, 2002) and works onthe packed representations.The German LFG grammar integrates a mor-phological component which is a variant ofDMOR1 (Becker, 2001).
This means that the (in-ternal) lexicon does not comprise entries for sur-face word forms, but entries for specific morpho-logical tags, see (Dipper, 2003).3 Participles in the German LFG3.1 AnalysisThe morphosyntactic ambiguity of German par-ticiples presents a notorious difficulty for theoreti-cal and computational analysis.
The reason is thatadjectives (i.e.
adjectival participles) do not onlyoccur as attributive modifiers (shown in (1-a)), butcan also be used as predicatives (see (2-b)).
Thesepredicatives have exactly the same form as ver-bal or adverbial participles (compare the three sen-tences in (2)).
Predicatives do appear either as ar-guments of verbs like seem or as free adjuncts suchthat they are not even syntactically distinguishablefrom adverbs.
The sentence in (2-c) is thus am-biguous as to whether the participle is an adverbmodifying the main verb, or a predicative whichmodifies the subject.
Especially in the case ofmodifiers refering to a psychological state, the twounderlying readings are hard to tell apart (Geuder,2004).
It is due to the lack of reliable semantictests that the standard German tag set (Schiller etal., 1995) assigns the tag ?ADJD?
to predicativeadjectives as well as adverbs.
(2) a. Das Experiment hat ihn begeistert.
?The experiment has enthused him.?b.
Er scheint von dem Experiment begeistert.
?He seems enthusiastic about the experiment.?c.
Er hat begeistert experimentiert.
?He has experimented in an enthusiastic way?
or:?He was enthusiastic when he experimented.
?For performance reasons, the German LFG doesnot cover free predicatives at the moment.
In thecontext of our crosslingual induction approach,the distinction between predicatives and adverbsis rather straigtforward since we base our experi-ments on languages that have morphologically dis-tinct forms for these categories.
In the follow-ing, we will thus limit the discussion to adverbialparticiples and ignore the complexities related topredicative participles.In the German LFG, the treatment of a givenparticiple form is closely tight to the morphologi-cal analysis encoded in DMOR.
In particular, ad-verbial participles can have different degrees oflexicalisation.
For bestimmt (probably) in (3-a),which is completely lexicalised, the morphology35proposes two analyses: (i) a participle tag of theverbal lemma bestimmen (determine) and (ii) anadverb tag for the lemma bestimmt.
In this case,the LFG parsing algorithm will figure out whichmorphological analysis yields a syntactically well-formed analysis.
For gezielt (purposeful) in (3-b),DMOR outputs, besides the participle analysis, anadjective tag for the lemma.
However, the gram-mar can turn it into an adverb by a general ad-verb conversion rule for adjectives.
The difficultcase for the German LFG grammar is illustrated in(3-c) by means of the adverbial participle wieder-holt (repeatedly).
This participle is neither lexi-calised as an adverb nor as an adjective, but it stillcan be used as an adverb.
(3) a. BestimmtProbablyistisdiesertheMannmansehrverytraurig.sad.b.
DerTheMannmanhathasgezieltactedgehandelt.purposefully.c.
DerTheMannmanhathaswiederholtrepeatedlygeweint.cried.To cover sentences like (3-c), the grammarneeds to include a rule that allows adverb conver-sion for participles.
Unfortunately, this rule is verycostly in terms of the overall performance of thegrammar, as is shown in the following section.3.2 Assessing the Effect of ParticipleAmbiguity on the German LFGIn this section, we want to illustrate the effect ofone specific grammar rule, i.e.
the rule that gener-ally allows for conversion of participles into ad-verbs.
We perform a contrastive evaluation oftwo versions of the grammar: (i) the No-Part-Advversion which does not allow for adverb conver-sion (except for the lexicalised participles fromDMOR), (ii) the All-Part-Adv version which al-lows every participle to be analysed as adverb.Otherwise, the two versions of the grammar arecompletely identical.The comparison between the All-Part-Adv andNo-Part-Adv grammar version pursues two majorgoals: On the one hand, we want to assess theiroverall quantitative performance on representativegold standard data, as it is common practice forstatistical parsing systems.
On the other hand, weare interested in getting a detailed picture of thequality of the grammar for parsing adverbial par-ticiples.
These two goals do not necessarily go to-gether since we know that the phenomenon is notvery frequent in the data which we use for evalu-ation.
Therefore, we do not only report accuracyon gold standard data in the following, but also fo-cus on error analysis and describe ways of qualti-tatively assessing the grammar performance.For evaluation, we use the TIGER treebank(Brants et al, 2002).
We report grammar per-formance on the development set which consistsof the first 5000 TIGER sentences, and statisticalaccuracy on the standard heldout set which com-prises 371 sentences.Quantitative Evaluation We first want to assessthe quantitative impact of the phenomenon of ad-verbial participles in our evaluation data.
We parsethe heldout set storing all possible analyses ob-tained by both grammars, in order to compare theupperbound score that the both versions can op-timally achieve (i.e.
independently of the disam-biguation quality).
Then, we run the XLE eval-uation in the ?oracle?
mode which means that thedisambiguation compares all system analyses for agiven sentence to its gold analysis, and chooses thebest system analysis for computing accuracy.
Theupperbound f-score for both grammar versions isalmost identical (at about 83.6%).
This suggeststhat the phenomenon of adverbial participles doesnot occur in the heldout set.If we run the grammar versions on a largerset of sentences, the difference in coverage be-comes more obvious.
In Table 1, we report theabsolute number of parsed sentences, starred sen-tences (only receiving a partial or fragment parse),and the timeouts 1 on our standard TIGER devel-opment set.
Not very surprisingly, the coverageof the All-Part-Adv version seems to be broader.However, this does not necessarily mean that the40 additionally covered sentences all exhibit ad-verbial participles (see below).
Moreover, Table 2gives a first indication of the fact that the extendedcoverage comes at a price: the All-Part-Adv ver-sion massively increases the number of ambigui-ties per sentence.
Related to this, in the All-Part-Adv version, the number of timeouts increases by16% and parsing speed goes down by 6% com-pared to the No-Part-Adv version.To assess the effect of the massively increasedambiguity rate and the bigger proportion of time-outs in All-Part-Adv, we perform a statistical eval-uation of the two versions of the grammar againstthe heldout set, i.e.
we compute f-score based1Sentences whose parsing can not be finished in prede-fined amount of time, the maximally allowed parse time isset to 20 seconds.36Grammar ParsedSent.StarredSent.Time-outsTimein secNo-Part-Adv 4301 608 90 6853All-Part-Adv 4339 555 105 7265Table 1: Coverage-based evaluation on the TIGERdevelopment set (sentences 1-5000), 4999 sen-tences totalSent.
Av.
ambiguities per sent.
Av.length No-Part-Adv All-Part-Adv Incr.1-10 2.95 3.3 11%11-20 24.99 36.09 44%21-30 250.4 343.76 37%31-40 1929.06 2972.847 54%41-50 173970.0 663310.4 429%Table 2: Average number of ambiguities per sen-tenceon the parses that the XLE disambiguation selectsas the most probable parse.
Both versions usethe same disambiguation model which results ina slightly biased comparison but still reflects theeffect of increased ambiguity on the disambigua-tion component.
In Table 3, we can see that theAll-Part-Adv version performs significantly worsethan the grammar version which does not cap-ture adverbial participles.
The spurious ambigu-ities and timeouts produced in All-Part-Adv havesuch a strong negative impact on the disambigua-tion component that it can not be outweighed bythe extended coverage of the grammar.Qualitative Evaluation The fact that the All-Part-Adv version generally increases parse ambi-guity suggests that it produces a lot of undesiredanalyses for constructions not related to adverbialparticiples.
To assess this assumption, we drew arandom sample of 20 sentences out of the addi-tionally covered 41 sentences and checked manu-ally whether these contained an adverbial partici-ple: Only 40% of these sentences are actually cor-rectly analysed.
In all other cases, the grammarlacks an analysis for a completely different phe-Grammar Prec.
Rec.
F-Sc.
Timein secAll-Part-Adv 83.80 76.71 80.1 666.55No-Part-Adv 84.25 78.3 81.17 632.21Table 3: Evaluation on the TIGER heldout set, 371sentences totalnomenon (mostly related to coordination), but ob-tains an (incorrect) analysis on the basis of the ad-verb conversion rule.As an example, Figure 1 presents two c-structure analyses for the sentence in (4) in theAll-Part-Adv grammar.
In the second c-structure(CS2), the participle kritisiert (criticised) is anal-ysed as adverb modifing the main verb haben(have).
This results in a very strange underlying f-structure, meaning something like the Greens pos-sess the SPD in a criticising manner.
(4) DieTheGru?nenGreenshabenhavedietheSPDSPDkritisiert.criticised.
?The Greens have criticised the SPD?3.3 Interim ConclusionThis section has illustrated an exemplary dilemmafor parsing systems that aim broad-coverage andlinguisitically motivated analyses at the same time.Since these systems need to explicitly address andrepresent ambiguities that purely statistical sys-tems are able to conflate or ignore, their perfor-mance is not automatically improved by addinga specific rule for a specific phenomenon.
Inter-estingly, the negative consequences affecting thequantitative (statistical) as well as the qualitative(linguistic) dimension of the grammar seem to beclosely related: The overgenerating adverb con-version rule empirically leads to linguistically un-motivated analyses which causes problems for thedisambiguation component.
In the rest of the pa-per, we show how the adverbial analysis of partici-ples can be reasonably constrained on the basis ofa lexical resource induced from a parallel corpus.4 Cross-Lingual Induction of AdverbialParticiplesThe intuition of the cross-lingual induction ap-proach is that adverbial participles can be easilyextracted from parallel corpora since in other lan-guages (such as English or French) adverbs areoften morphologically marked and easily labelledby statistical PoS taggers.
As an example, con-sider the sentence in (5), extracted from Europarl,where the German participle versta?rkt is translatedby unambiguous adverbs in English and French(increasingly and davantage).
(5) a. Nach der Osterweiterung stehen die Zeichenversta?rkt auf Liberalisierung.b.
Following enlargement towards the east, the emphasisis increasingly on liberalisation.37CS 1: ROOT:2543CProot[std]:2536DP[std]:984DPx[std]:981D[std]:616die:34NP:773N[comm]:717NAdj:714Gr?nen:85Cbar:2506Vaux[haben,fin]:1054haben:159VP[v,part]:2080DP[std]:1856DPx[std]:2321D[std]:1180die:204NP:1720N[comm]:284SPD:257VC[v,part]:2009V[v,part]:1593Vx[v,part]:1590kritisiert:348PERIOD:418.:410CS 2: ROOT:2543CProot[std]:2536DP[std]:984DPx[std]:981D[std]:616die:34NP:773N[comm]:717NAdj:714Gr?nen:85Cbar:2506V[v,fin]:2494Vx[v,fin]:2491haben:159DP[std]:1856DPx[std]:2321D[std]:1180die:204NP:1720N[comm]:284SPD:257ADVP[std]:1493V[v,-infl]:1491Vx[v,-infl]:1488kritisiert:348PERIOD:418.:410Figure 1: Two c-structures for sentence (4), obtained by the grammar All-Part-Adv - CS1 is correct, CS2is semantically very strangec.
Apre`s l?
e?largissement a` l?
Est, la tendance sera da-vantage a` la libe?ralisation.In the following, we describe experiments onEuroparl where we automatically extract and fil-ter adverbially translated German participles.4.1 DataWe base our experiments on the German, En-glish, French and Dutch part of the Europarl cor-pus.
We automatically word-aligned the Germanpart to each of the others with the GIZA++ tool(Och and Ney, 2003).
Note that, due to diver-gences in sentence alignment and tokenisation,the three word-alignments are not completely syn-chronised.
Moreover, each of the 4 languages hasbeen automatically PoS tagged using the TreeTag-ger (Schmid, 1994).
In addition, the German andEnglish parts have been parsed with MaltParser(Nivre et al, 2006).Since we want to limit our investigation to thoseparticiples that are not already recorded as lexi-calised adjective or adverb in the DMOR morphol-ogy, we first have to generate the set of participlecandidates from the tagged Europarl data.
We ex-tract all distinct words (types) from the Germanpart that have been either tagged as ADJD (pred-icative or adverbial modifier), 6089 types in total,or as VVPP (past perfect participle), 5469 typesin total.
We intersect this set of potential partici-ples with the set of DMOR participles that onlyhave a verbal lemma.
The resulting intersection(5054 types in total) constitutes the set of all Ger-man participles in Europarl that are not recordedas lexicalised in the DMOR morphology .Given the participle candidates, we now ex-tract the set of sentences that exhibit a wordalignment between a German participle and anEnglish, French or Dutch adverb.
The extrac-tion yields 5191 German-English sentence pairs,2570 German-French, and 4129 German-Dutchsentence pairs.
The German-English pairs com-prise 1070 types of potentially adverbial partici-ples.
The types found in the German-French andGerman-Dutch part form a proper subset of thetypes extracted from the German-English pairs.Thus, the additional languages will not increasethe recall of the induction.
However, we will showthat they are extremely useful for filtering incor-rect or uninteresting participle alignments.For data exploration and evaluation, we anno-tated 300 participle alignments out of the 5191German-English sentences as to whether the En-glish adverbial really points to an adverbial par-ticiple on the German side (and/or the word-alignment was correct).
Throughout the entire setof annotated sentences, this ratio between the par-allel cases (where an English adverbial correctlyindicates a German adverbial) and all adverbiallytranslated participles is at about 30%.
This meansthat if we base the induction on word-alignmentsalone, its precision would be relatively low.The remaining 60% translation pairs do not onlyreflect word alignment errors, but also cases wherewe find a proper participle in the German sentencethat has a correct adverbial translation for otherreasons.
A typical configuration is exemplified in(6) where the German main verb vorlegen is trans-lated as the verb-adverb combination put forward.
(6) a. Wir haben eine Reihe von Vorschla?gen vorgelegt.b.
We have put forward a number of proposals.These sentence pairs are cases of free or para-38Figure 2: Type/token ratio for adverbial participlesphrasing translations.
Ideally, we want our induc-tion method to filter such type of configurations.The 300 annotated sentences comprise 121 to-ken instances of German adverbially used partici-ples that have an adverbial translation in English.However, these 121 tokens reduce to 24 partici-ple types.
The graph in Figure 2 displays thetype/token-ratio for an increasing number of in-stances in our gold standard.
The curve exponen-tially decays from about 10 tokens onward andsuggests that from about 30 tokens onward, thenumber of unseen types is relatively low.
This canbe interpreted as evidence in favour of the hypoth-esis that the number of adverbially used participlesis actually fairly limited and can be integrated intothe grammar in terms of a hard-coded resource.4.2 FilteringThe data analysis in the previous section hasshown that approximately one third of the Englishadverb alignments actually point to an adverbialparticiple on the German side.
This means that wehave to rigorously filter the data that we extract onthe basis of word-alignments in order to obtain ahigh quality resource for our grammar.
In this sec-tion, we will investigate several filtering methodsand evaluate them on our annotated sentence pairs.Frequency-based filtering As a first attempt,we filtered the non-parallel cases in our set ofparticiple-adverb translations by means of the rel-ative frequency of the adverb translations.
Foreach participle candidate, we counted the numberof tokens that exhibit an adverbial alignment onthe English side, and divided this number by itstotal number of occurrences in the German Eu-roparl.
The best f-score of the ADV-FREQ filter(see Table 4) is achieved by the 0.05 threshold, butgenerally, the precision of the frequency filters istoo low for high-quality resource induction.
Thereason for the poor performance of the frequency-based filters seems to be that some German verbsare systematically translated as verb - adverb com-binations as in (6).
For these participles, the rel-ative frequency of adverbial alignments is not agood indicator for their adverbial use in German.Multilingual Filtering Similar to filters usedin annotation projection where noisy word-alignments are ?cleaned?
with the help of addi-tional languages (Bouma et al, 2008), we haveimplemented a filter that only selects those par-ticiples as adverbials which also exhibit a certainamount of adverbial translations in the French andDutch Europarl.
We count the total number ofadverbial translations of a given participle on theFrench side and divide it by the number of Englishadverbial translations.
For French, the best f-scoreis achieved at a threshold of >0.1 (filter FR).
ForDutch, the best f-score is achieved at a thresholdof >0.05 (filter NL).
The exact precision and re-call values are given in Table 4.Syntax-based Filtering The intuition behindthe filters presented in this section is that adver-bial translations which are due to cross-lingual di-vergences can be identified on the basis of theirsyntactic contexts.
Information about these con-texts can be extracted from the dependency anal-yses produced by MaltParser for the German andEnglish data.
On the German side, we want to ex-clude those participle instances for which the Ger-man parser has found an auxiliary head, since thisconfiguration points to a normal partciple contextin German.
The filter is called G-HEAD in Table4.
It filters all types which have an auxiliary headin more than 40% of their adverbial translationconfigurations.
On the English side, we excludeall translations where the adverb has a verbal headwhich is also aligned to the German partciple.
Thefilter is called E-HEAD in Table 4.
It excludes allparticiple types which exhibit the E-HEAD con-figuration in more than 50% of the cases.39filter prec.
rec.
f-sc.ADV-FREQ 0.38 0.75 0.51FR 0.48 0.76 0.58NL 0.33 0.73 0.45G-HEAD 0.65 0.8 0.71E-HEAD 0.4 0.8 0.53COMBINED-1 0.61 0.8 0.69COMBINED-2 0.86 0.76 0.81Table 4: Performance of filters on the set of goldadverbial participle typesCombined Token-level Filtering So far, wehave shown that multilingual and syntactic in-formation is useful to filter non-parallel partici-ple translations.
We have found that the pre-cision of the syntactic filters can still be in-creased by combining it with the multilingual fil-ters.
COMBINED-1 in Table 4 refers to the filterwhich only includes those participle types whichhave at least one adverbial translation on the En-glish target side such that (i) the adverbial trans-lation is paralleled on the French or Dutch targetside for the same German participle token and (ii)the German participle token does not have an aux-iliary head.
If we combine this token-level filter-ing with the syntactic type-level filtering G-HEADand E-HEAD (the filter called COMBINED-2 inTable 4), the precision increases by about 25%with little loss in recall.4.3 AnalysisBased on the filtering techniques described in theprevious section, we can finally induce a list of 46German adverbial participles from Europarl.
Thefact that this participle class seems fairly delimitedin our data raises the theoretical question whetherthe adverb conversion is licensed by any linguistic,i.e.
lexical-semantic, properties of these partici-ples.
However, we observe that the automaticallyinduced list comprises very diverse types of ad-verbs, as well as very distinct types of underlyingverbs.
Thus, besides adverbs that clearly modifyevents (see sentence (5)), we also found adverbsthat are more likely to modify adjectives (sentence(7-a)), or propositions (sentence (7-b)).
(7) a. Es ist eine verdammt gefa?hrliche Situation.
?It is a damned dangerous situation.?b.
Wir machen einen Bericht u?ber den Bericht des Rech-nungshofes , zugegeben.
?We are drafting a report about the report of the Courtof Auditors , admittedly.
?A more fine-grained classification and analysisof adverbial participles is left for future research.5 Grammar-based EvaluationThe resource of participles licensing adverbial use,whose induction was described in the previoussection, can be straightforwardly integrated intothe German LFG.
By explicitly enumerating theparticiples in the adverb lexicon, the grammar canapply the standard adverb macros to them.
To as-sess the effect of the filtering, we built two newversions of the grammar: (i) Euro-Part-Adv, its ad-verb lexicon comprises all adverbially translatedparticiples found in Europarl (1091 types) and (ii)Filt-Part-Adv, its adverb lexicon comprises onlythe syntactically and multilingually filtered par-ticiples found in Europarl (46 types).Although we have seen in section 3.2 that adver-bial participles do not seem to occur in the TIGERheldout set, we also know that it is important toassess the effect of ambiguity rate on the overallgrammar performance.
Therefore, we computedthe accuracy of the most probable parses producedby the Euro-Part-Adv and Filt-Part-Adv on theheldout set.
As is shown in Table 5, the Euro-Part-Adv performs significantly worse than Filt-Part-Adv.
This suggests that the non-filtered participleresource is not constrained enough and still pro-duces a lot of spurious ambiguites that mislead thedisambiguation component.
The coverage valuesin Table 6 further corroborate the observation thatthe unfiltered participle resource behaves similarto the unrestricted adverb conversion in All-Part-Adv (see Section 3.2).
The coverage of the filteredvs.
the unfiltered version on the development set isidentical, however the timeouts in Euro-Part-Advincrease by 17% and parsing time by 8%.By contrast, there is no significant differencein f-score between the No-Part-Adv version pre-sented in Section 3.2 and the Filt-Part-Adv ver-sion.
Thus, we can, at least, assume that the fil-tered participles resources has restricted the mas-sive overgeneration caused by the general adverbconversion rule such that the overall performanceof the original grammar is not negatively affected.To evaluate the participle resource as to whetherit could have a positive qualtitative effect on pars-ing TIGER at all, we built a specialised test-suite which comprises only sentences containinga non-lexicalised participle, which has an adver-bial translation in Europarl and is tagged as ADJD40Grammar Prec.
Rec.
F-Sc.
Timein secEuro-Part-Adv 82.32 75.78 78.91 701Filt-Part-Adv 84.12 78.2 81.05 665Table 5: Evaluation on the TIGER heldout set, 371sentences totalGrammar ParsedSent.StarredSent.Time-outsTimein secEuro-Part-Adv 4304 588 107 7359Filt-Part-Adv 4304 604 91 6791Table 6: Performance on the TIGER developmentset (sentences 1-5000), 4999 sentences totalin TIGER.
The sentences were extracted from thewhole TIGER corpus yielding a set of 139 sen-tences.
In this quality-oriented evaluation, weonly contrast the No-Part-Adv version with thefiltered Filt-Part-Adv version since the unfilteredversion leads to worse overall performance.
Ascan be seen in Table 7, the No-Part-Adv can onlycompletely cover 36% of the specialised testsuitewhich is much lower than its average completecoverage on the development set (86%).
This sug-gests that a substantial number of the extractedADJD participles are actually used as adverbial inthe specialised testsuite.Similar to the qualitative evaluation procedurein 3.2, we manually evaluated a random sample of20 sentences covered by Filt-Part-Adv and not byNo-Part-Adv as to whether they contain an adver-bial participle that has been correctly recognised.This was the case for 90% of the sentences, theremaining 2 sentences were cases of secondarypredications.
An example of a relatively simpleTIGER sentence that the grammar could not coverin the No-Part-Adv version is given in (8).
(8) Die Anti-Baby-Pillen stehen im Verdacht , vermehrtThrombosen auszulo?sen.
?The birth control pill is suspected to increasingly causethromboses.
?We also manually checked a random sample ofGrammar ParsedSent.StarredSent.Time-outsTimein secNo-Part-Adv 50 77 12 427Filt-Part-Adv 92 39 8 366Table 7: Performance on the specialised TIGERtest set, 139 sentences total20 sentences that the Filt-Part-Adv grammar couldnot cover, in order to see whether the grammar sys-tematically misses certain cases of adverbial par-ticiples.
In this second random sample, the per-centage of sentences containing a true adverbialparticiple was again 90%.
The grammar couldnot correctly analyse these because of their spe-cial syntax that is not covered by the general ad-verb macro (or, of course, because of difficult con-structions not related to adverbial participles).
Anexample for such a case is given in (9).
(9) Transitreisen junger Ma?nner vom Gaza-Streifen insWestjordanland und umgekehrt sind nicht gestattet.
?Transit travels from the Gaza Strip to the West Bank andvice versa are not allowed for young men.
?The high proportion of true adverbial participleinstances in our specific testsuite suggests that thedata we induced from Europarl largely carries overto TIGER (despite genre differences, for instance)and constitutes a generally useful resource.
Thus,we can not only say that the filtered participle re-source has no negative effect on the overall per-formance of the German LFG, but also extends itscoverage for a less frequent phenomenon in a lin-guistically precise way.6 ConclusionWe have proposed an empirical account for detect-ing adverbial participles in German.
Since thiscategory is usually not annotated in German re-sources and hard to describe in theory, we basedour method on multilingual parallel data.
Thisdata suggests that only a fairly limited class of par-ticiples actually undergo the conversion to adverbsin free text.
We have described a set of linguisti-cally motivated filters which are necessary to in-duce a high-precision resource for adverbial par-ticiples from parallel data.
This resource has beenintegrated into the German LFG grammar.
In con-trast to the version of the grammar which does notrestrict the participle - adverb conversion, the re-stricted version produces less spurious ambigui-ties which leads to better f-score on gold standarddata.
Moreover, by manually evaluating a spe-cialised data set, we have established that the re-stricted version also extends the coverage and pro-duces the correct analyses which can be used forfurther linguistic study.41ReferencesTanja Becker.
2001.
DMOR: Handbuch.
Technicalreport, IMS, University of Stuttgart.Gerlof Bouma, Jonas Kuhn, Bettina Schrader, andKathrin Spreyer.
2008.
Parallel LFG Grammarson Parallel Corpora: A Base for Practical Trian-gulation.
In Miriam Butt and Tracy HollowayKing, editors, Proceedings of the LFG08 Confer-ence, pages 169?189, Sydney, Australia.
CSLI Pub-lications, Stanford.Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Silvia Hansen, Wolf-gang Lezius, and George Smith.
2002.
The tigertreebank.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Tree-banks and Linguistic Theories.Joan Bresnan.
2000.
Lexical-Functional Syntax.Blackwell, Oxford.Miriam Butt, Helge Dyvik, Tracy Holloway King, Hi-roshi Masuichi, and Christian Rohrer.
2002.
TheParallel Grammar Project.Aoife Cahill, John T. Maxwell III, Paul Meurer, Chris-tian Rohrer, and Victoria Rose?n.
2007.
Speedingup LFG Parsing using C-Structure Pruning .
In Col-ing 2008: Proceedings of the workshop on GrammarEngineering Across Frameworks, pages 33 ?
40.Stefanie Dipper.
2003.
Implementing and Document-ing Large-Scale Grammars ?
German LFG.
Ph.D.thesis, Universita?t Stuttgart, IMS.Anette Frank, Tracy Holloway King, Jonas Kuhn, andJohn T. Maxwell.
2001.
Optimality Theory StyleConstraint Ranking in Large-Scale LFG Grammars.
In Peter Sells, editor, Formal and Empirical Issuesin Optimality Theoretic Syntax, page 367?397.
CSLIPublications.Wilhelm Geuder.
2004.
Depictives and transparent ad-verbs.
In J. R. Austin, S. Engelbrecht, and G. Rauh,editors, Adverbials.
The Interplay of Meaning, Con-text, and Syntactic Structure, pages 131?166.
Ben-jamins.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus forstatistical machine translation.
In MT Summit 2005.Joakim Nivre, Johan Hall, and Jens Nilsson.
2006.Maltparser: A data driven parser-generator for de-pendency parsing.
In Proc.
of LREC-2006.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Stefan Riezler, Tracy Holloway King, Ronald M. Ka-plan, Richard Crouch, John T. Maxwell, and MarkJohnson.
2002.
Parsing the Wall Street Journal us-ing a Lexical-Functional Grammar and Discrimina-tive Estimation Techniques .
In Proceedings of ACL2002.Christian Rohrer and Martin Forst.
2006.
Improvingcoverage and parsing quality of a large-scale LFGfor German.
In Proceedings of LREC-2006.Anne Schiller, Simone Teufel, and Christine Thielen.1995.
Guidelines fuer das Tagging deutscher Tex-tkorpora mit STTS.
Technical report, IMS, Univer-sity of Stuttgart.Helmut Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speechtagging using decision trees.
In Proceedings ofInternational Conference on New Methods in Lan-guage Processing.David Yarowsky, Grace Ngai, and Richard Wicen-towski.
2001.
Inducing multilingual text analysistools via robust projection across aligned corpora.
InProceedings of HLT 2001, First International Con-ference on Human Language Technology Research.42
