Chinese Personal Name Disambiguation Based on Person ModelingHua-Ping ZHANG1   Zhi-Hua LIU2   Qian MO3  He-Yan HUANG11Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, P.R.C 1000812North China University of Technology, P.R.C 1000413Beijing Technology and Business University, Beijing, P.R.C 100048Email: kevinzhang@bit.edu.cnAbstractThis document presents the bakeoff re-sults of Chinese personal name in theFirst CIPS-SIGHAN Joint Conferenceon Chinese Language Processing.
Theauthors introduce the frame of persondisambiguation system LJPD, whichuses a new person model.
LJPD wasbuilt in short time, and it is not givenenough training and adjustment.
Evalua-tion on LJPD shows that the precision iscompetitive, but the recall is very low.
Ithas more space for further improvement.1 IntroductionWe participated in the First CIPS-SIGHAN JointConference on Chinese Language Processing.And have taken task 3: Chinese Personal Namedisambiguation.Chinese personal name disambiguation in-cludes two stages: words are segmented to rec-ognize Chinese personal name, and documentsare clustered to disambiguate different personwith the same personal name.In our system, it involves the followingsteps:1) Segmenting words and tagging the part-of-speech, and then recognizing Chinese personalname using ICTCLAS 2010 system1.2) Extracting personal feature to create the per-son attribution model on each document.3) Generating initial clusters according to fea-tures in person model, and then clustering theinitial clusters until the stop criteria is reached.The processing flow is illustrated in figure 1.1It can be downloaded fromhttp://hi.baidu.com/drkevinzhangFigure 1 Step of Person DisambiguationAs illustrated in figure 1, the whole systemaddresses four problems: personal name recogni-tion, anaphora resolution of personal name, per-son model creation and clustering.2 Personal Name RecognitionChinese personal name recognition is more dif-ficult than English.
Such difficulties usuallycombine with Chinese word segmentation.
Theset of Chinese personal name is infinite, and therule of name construction is varied.
Chinese per-sonal name is often made up of a usual word,and has ambiguity with its context.To solve the difficulties mentioned above,Chinese personal name recognition based on roletagging is given in [Zhang etc., 2002].
The ap-proach is: tokens after segmentation are taggedusing Viterbi algorithm with different roles ac-cording to their functions in the generation ofChinese personal name; the possible names arerecognized after maximum pattern matching onthe roles sequence [ZHANG, etc., 2002].
Withthis approach, the precision of ICTCLASreaches 95.57% and the recall is 95.23% in anopening corpus which contains 1,108,049 words.In the corpus, the count of the personal name is15,888.
And ICTCLAS is a Chinese lexicalanalysis system witch combines part-of-speechtagging, word segmentation, unknown wordsrecognition.
It can meet our requirements, soICTCLAS provides personal name recognitionin our system.3 Anaphora Resolution of PersonalNameAnaphora is very common in natural language.Resolve this problem can help us get more in-formation of the person from a document.Anaphora resolution of personal name is animportant part of anaphora resolution.
At present,much advancement in anaphora resolution haveoccurred [Saliha 1998].
Anaphora resolution ofpersonal pronouns is an especially complicateproblem in anaphora resolution of personal name.In our system, we don?t process this problem.The reason is that anaphora resolution of per-sonal name will take side effect to personalname disambiguation unless its precision is defi-nitely high.
So we just process the anaphora ofthe first name or the second name.
For example,?Jianmin Wang?
in above context and ?Profes-sor Wang?
will be resolved in our system.4 Personal ModelWe propose a person model to represent theperson in the document:Person = {N, P, Q, R}where:N is the collection of appellation of person,such as name, nickname, alias, and so onP is the collection of the basic attributes ofpersonQ is the collection of the other attributes ofpersonR is the collection of the terms co-occurrence with person name, witch is calledterm fieldIn the system, we focused on seven attrib-utes such as sex, nationality, birthday, nativeplace, address, profession, family members andpersonal name, co-occurrence terms.
In thesefeatures, name?N, {sex, nationality, birthday,native place}?P, {address, profession, familymembers}?Q, {co-occurrence term}?R.
Table1 is the examples of person model.In view of the co-occurrence personal nameis especially important for person disambigua-tion.
We separate it as another field in R.4.1  Attributes FeatureThe components N, P and Q of person model areattributes feature.
The dimension of these fea-tures for a person is different.
For example, thesex of a person is constant in life, while his orher address may be different in different time.Take DOM to represent the dimension of theattributes features.
Then:DOM(Ni) = 1; (1?i?n)DOM(Pi) = 1; (1?i?k)DOM(Qi) ?
1; (1?i?m)For a person, N and P are constant in life.
Ifone attribute of N or P between two persons isdifferent, they are not the same person.To get the attributes feature, we have threesteps: First, segment word and tag part-of-speechfor the input document.
Second, we identify thetriggering word which is defined as attributesvalue and the Max-Noun Phrase.
The triggeringwords are identified by their POS and a hand-built triggering word thesaurus.
At last, a classi-fier determines the attribute belongs to the leftpersonal name or the right to the attribute.
Theclassifier is trained by the corpus which is hand-tagged documents from internet.Figure 2 Step of Person Attributes Extraction4.2 Term FieldIn person model, R is the collection of the termsco-occurrence within person.
We adopt VectorSpace Model to represent these terms.
The i-thterm is represented by ti, and its weight is repre-sented by wi, and the weight shows the impor-tance of the term for the person.R = (t1, w1; t2, w2; ?
; tH, wH)To get the person?s term field, we identifya scope witch these terms occurred.
We con-sider three kinds of scope for term field: thetotal document, the paragraph where the per-sonal name is present, sentence where the per-sonal name is present.
And then segment wordsand tag part-of-speech for these fragments.
Next,filter out the attribute terms and filter by part-of-speech and leave only nouns, verb, adjective,adverb and name entry.
Third, we make a stopword list, and filter out these stop terms.
Last,according to the term?s DF, filter out high fre-quency and low frequency terms, and only theterms witch DF is not lower than 2 and nothigher than N/3(N is the total count of docu-ments) are left.In collection R, we have separated termfield to co-occurrence personal name vector andco-occurrence common term vector.
Becausethe two vectors have different affect to persondisambiguation.
This difference manifests in thedifferent method to compute these weight.
Thecommon term?s weight is computed by tf-idfalgorithm:)1/log()1),(log(),( +?+= tnNdttfdtwwhere:),( dtw  is the weight of term t in documentd),( dttf  is the frequency of occurrence of tin dN is the total count of documentsnt is the count of documents which containterm tsex nationality birthday Native place addressFamilymembers professionCo-occurrencepersonal nameCo-occurrenceterms fieldName1 ?
?
1949  ??
??
?
?
?Name2 ?
??
??
??
?
?
?Name3 ?
?
??
??
?
?
?Table 1 Examples of Person ModelThe co-occurrence personal name?s weight iscomputed below:)1/'log()1),(log(),( +?+= namenNpnamenfpnamewwhere:),( pnamew  is the weight of co-occurrencename name),( pnamenf  is the frequency of co-occurrence of name  and person pname  is the count of the co-occurrence ofname  and the other personal nameThe similarity of term field between two personsis calculated by the angle cosine:?
?
?==i iiiiiiyxyxYXYXSim22**),cos(),(5 ClusteringPerson model ?Person = {N, P, Q, R}?
is multi-dimensional.
First, we adopted two rules to gen-erate original clusters:Rule 1: For two persons whose name is same, ifone of the birthday (accurate to month) or rela-tive is matched, these two persons are the sameperson.Rule 2: For two persons whose name is same, ifone of the sex, nationality, native place or birth-day is not matched, these two persons are differ-ent.There are profession, co-occurrence per-sonal name and co-occurrence common termsleft.
For two persons whose name is same, weapply rule 1 and 2 first.
If both of the two rulesare not activating, compute the similarity Simposi-tion(X, Y), cosname(X, Y), costerm(X, Y).
And thensynthesize these three similarities.Assume the three factors profession, co-occurrence personal name and co-occurrencecommon terms are independent, and adopt Stan-ford certainty theory to synthesize the threesimilarities.
The Stanford certainty theory cre-ates confidence measures and some simple rulesfor combing these confidences.
Assume E1, E2,E2 are the Stanford certainty factors of event B,and CF represent the confidence, then the confi-dence of event B is :)3()2()1()3()2()3()1()2()1()3()2()1()(ECFECFECFECFECFECFECFECFECFECFECFECFBCF??+?????
?++=For example, if the confidence of the threefactors for event B is respectively: 88%, 74%,66%, then the confidence for event B is 88??74??66??88??74??88??66??76??66??88??74??66?
?98.93?.To compute the confidence of the factors,we should get the threshold (represented by ui)of the similarity for factors.
If the similarity ofthe factor reaches the threshold, its confidence is100%:iEi usimECF i=)(  ]1,0[)( ?iECFThe training method is: clustering trainingdata according to the single factor, select thethreshold with which the recall is higher with thepremise that the precision is not lower than 98%.We get three thresholds 3, 0.5, 0.25 respectivelyfor factor profession, co-occurrence personalname and co-occurrence common terms.Overall, the algorithm takes two steps:1) Adopt rule 1 and 2 to group the persons tothe original clusters2) Adopt agglomerative hierarchical cluster-ing algorithm to clustering these originalclusters.
(1) Take each original cluster as a singlecluster(2) Select two clusters which are mostlikelihood and merge to one cluster(3) If there is only one cluster or reachesstop criteria, exit.
Else, go to step (2).In the process of merging the clusters, weshould merge the fragment of person.
For termfield vector, we simply compute the average ofthe term weights.
For attribute feature, we adoptrule method to merge two clusters.6 TaskWe would introduce the operation of some dif-ferent track in this section.In formal test, we first get a query nameand its all files.
Then we segment these files andextract the related information of our personmodel and output to files.
At last, we clusterthese person models and output to result xml.In the diagnosis test, the basic process issame to the formal test.
The difference is that theelement of clustering is changed to the subfolderof a real name.
When all the subfolders are clus-tered for a query name, we merge the results toone xml file.B-Cubed P-IPprecision recall F score P IP F scoreFormal test 80.2 68.75 68.4 86.12 76.37 77.54Diagnosis test 94.62 63.32 72.48 96.44 72.78 80.85Table 2 Evaluation result of Personal Disambiguation7 ConclusionThrough the first bakeoff, we have learnedmuch about the development in Chinese per-sonal name recognition and person disambigua-tion.
At the same time, we really find our prob-lems during the evaluation.
The bakeoff is inter-esting and helpful.
We look forward to partici-pate in forthcoming bakeoff.ReferencesZHANG Hua-Ping, LIU Qun, YU Hong-Kui,CHENG Xue-Qi, BAI Shuo.
Chinese Named En-tity Recognition Using Role Model.
InternationalJournal of Computational Linguistics and Chineselanguage processing, 2003,Vol.
8 (2)Azzam Saliha, Kevin Humphreys & Robert Gai-zauskas.
Coreference resolution in a multilingualinformation extraction.
In the Proc.
of the Work-shop on Linguistic Coference.
Granada,Spain.1998.Yu Manquan.
Research on Knowledge Mining inPerson Tracking.
Ph.D.Thesis of GUCAS.
2006
