Proceedings of the Workshop on Negation and Speculation in Natural Language Processing, pages 46?49,Uppsala, July 2010.Importance of negations and experimental qualifiers in biomedicalliteratureMartin KrallingerStruct.
Biol.
and Biocomp.
Prog.Spanish National Cancer Center, Madrid, Spain.mkrallinger@cnio.esAbstractA general characteristic of most biomed-ical disciplines is their primarily experi-mental character.
Discoveries are obtainedthrough molecular biology and biochemi-cal techniques that allow understanding ofbiological processes at the molecular level.To qualify biological events, it is of practi-cal significance to detect specific types ofnegations that can imply either that a givenevent is not observed under specific con-ditions or even the opposite, that a givenevent is true by altering the bio-entitiesstudied (e.g.
introducing specific modifi-cations like mutations).
Of special interestis also to determine if a detected assertionis linked to experimental support providedby the authors.
Finding experimental qual-ifier cues and detecting experimental tech-nique mentions is of great interest to thebiological community in general and par-ticularly for annotation databases.
A shortoverview of different types of negationsand biological qualifiers of practical rele-vance will be provided.1 Biological AnnotationsIn line with the rapid accumulation of biologicalliterature and the growing number of large-scaleexperiments in biomedicine, it is becoming moreimportant to capture essential facts contained inthe literature and storing them in form of biolog-ical annotations.
Such annotations usually con-sist in structured database records, where biologi-cal entities of relevance, like genes or proteins areassociated to controlled vocabularies that are use-ful to describe the most relevant aspects of theseentities (their function, localization, processes orpathways they participate in or implications in dis-eases).
Also specific types of relations betweenbio-entities (e.g.
physical or regulatory interac-tions) are manually extracted from the literature.For biological interpretation and to determine thereliability of annotations it is crucial to captureboth negative annotations, whether a given rela-tion has been studied experimentally and does notoccur, as well as to determine the experimentalmethod used to study the bio-entity of interest.
Forinstance, the value of in vitro generated results, orthose obtained by large-scale experiments have adifferent significance compared to those generatedin vivo.
The most relevant biological annotationscontained in databases and constructed manuallyby expert curators are linked to experimental qual-ifiers.
Such experimental qualifiers can range fromsimple method terms to more sophisticated ontolo-gies or hierarchical terminologies.
Experimentalqualifiers used to annotate biological entities arefor instance provided by the Proteomics StandardsInitiative Molecular Interaction (PSI-MI) ontol-ogy, (Orchard S, Kerrien S., 2010) the EvidenceCodes of Gene Ontology (GO) (Rogers MF, Ben-Hur A, 2010) or the Open REGulatory ANNOta-tion (ORegAnno) database Evidence Types.2 Importance of Negations inBiomedicineThere is an increasing interest to extract fromthe literature negative associations.
For instance,one of the most popular biological annotation ef-forts, Gene Ontology Annotation (GOA), also sup-ports the annotation of?NOT?relations (associa-tion.is not) to be able to represent these types ofrelations in their annotation data.
In GO, such re-lations are labeled using?NOT?in the qualifiercolumn for a particular annotation.
This negationqualifier is applied to provide an explicit note thatthe bio-entity is not associated with a given GOterm.
This is important when a GO term mightotherwise be expected to apply to a bio-entity, butan experiment proves otherwise.
Negative asso-46ciations are also used when a cited reference ex-plicitly states a negation event, e.g.
in the formof: bio-entity X is not found in the location Y. Inaddition to annotation efforts there are a range ofscenarios where extraction of negative events areof practical importance, these are described in thefollowing subsections.2.1 Negations and Negative ControlsA common setting in experimental biology is touse controls to avoid alternative explanations ofresults and to minimize experimental artifacts.Negative controls corroborate that the experimen-tal outcome is not due to some sort of unrelated ef-fect; it serves to minimize false positives and canserve as a background observation.
The underly-ing assumption of negative controls is that one as-sumes in advance that the result should be nega-tive, i.e.
no significant effect should be obtained.Such negative controls are mainly expressed in theliterature using negations.
For instance in case ofprotein-protein interaction experiments, a negativecontrol could be to demonstrate that a signal isonly obtained when the two interactor proteins arepresent, and not when the label (tag-protein) aloneis given to each interactor individually.
To illus-trate this aspect consider the example sentencesprovided below:?
Our results show that, when AGG1 is presentin the matrix, it shows a strong ability to bind35S-labeled AGB1, whereas GST alone is notable to bind any detectable AGB1.?
GST alone did not interact with FKHR evenin the presence of E2 (Fig.
2B, lane 5), in-dicating the specific interaction between ERand FKHR.?
35S-labeled in vitrotranslated FBXO11bound to immobilized GST-p53 (lane 3) butnot GST alone (lane 2).?
PKC bound to GST-RINCK1 (lane 2) but notto GST alone (lane 1), revealing that PKCbinds to RINCK directly.In those example cases, GST (alone) would rep-resent the negative control.
Only in presence of theinteractor proteins a signal should be observed, ifGST alone is present the assumption is that no sig-nal should be obtained.
Negative controls are cru-cial for interpretation of the actual experimentaloutcome.2.2 Negative associations in medical andpopulation geneticsA considerable effort is being made to detect genesand mutations in genes that have implications inthe susceptibility of complex disorders.
Naturallyoccurring variations in the sequence of genes, of-ten called polymorphisms might have a deleteri-ous, protective or no associations at all to a patho-logic condition.
Not only to capture deleteriousand protective mutations, but also those that do nothave any effect is important to aid in the interpre-tation of mutations observed in patients.
This isespecially true taking into account the increasinguse of molecular screening technologies and per-sonalized medicine in the clinical domain.
Exam-ple cases of negative associations between genesand mutations to disease conditions derived fromPubMed abstracts can be seen below:?
CC16 gene may be not a susceptibility geneof asthmatic patients of Han population insouthwest China.?
The FZD3 gene might not play a role in con-ferring susceptibility to major psychosis inour sample.?
Apolipoprotein E gene polymorphism is nota strong risk factor for diabetic nephropa-thy and retinopathy in Type I diabetes: case-control study.?
In view of this evidence, it is likely that theSIGMAR1 gene does not confer susceptibilityto schizophrenia.?
Thus, this SNP in the PGIS gene is not asso-ciated with EH.?
The gene encoding GABBR1 is not associ-ated with childhood absence epilepsy in theChinese Han population.?
We did not find an association between OCD,family history for OCD, and the COMT genepolymorphism.Such negative associations can be useful forthe interpretation of relevance of genes for certainconditions, enabling filtering un-relevant genesand improving target selection for more detailedmolecular examinations.472.3 Toxicology and negationsA simplified view of toxicology experiments isto distinguish, given the administration of differ-ent amounts of a specific compound or drug (e.g.low, medium and high dosage) during predefinedtime spans, between toxic and non-toxic effects.Such effects can be examined in animal modelslike rats or mini-pigs by examining a series ofaspects, such as hematological parameters, organhistological properties (tissue alterations and sizeof organs), biochemical parameters, and changesin food/water consumption or fertility.
Usually an-imals to which specific amounts of the compoundhas been administered are compared to controlcases.
Here it is important to determine also threekinds of negative associations: (1) under whichconditions a given parameter or tissue has not beennegatively affected (save dosage, non-toxic), (2)which compound did not show the desired bene-ficial effect (e.g.
was not effective in treating thepathologic condition) and (3) under which admin-istration conditions a compound was not save.
Ex-ample sentences illustrating these negative associ-ations are:?
Morphological evaluation showed that 1-BPdid not cause morphological changes in sem-iniferous epithelium, but 2-BP treatment re-sulted in the disappearance of spermatogo-nia, atrophy of the seminiferous tubules anddegeneration of germ cells..?
This is an indication that the extracts may notbe completely safe in male rats when contin-uously administered for 14days.?
Histopathologic analysis of the vital organsrevealed no significant lesions in the brain,liver, kidney, heart, spleen, ovary, and testis.?
The extract did not produce any significant(P>0.05) changes in the mean concentra-tions of urea, creatinine, Na+, K+, and Cl-ions of rats in the extract treated groups com-pared to that of control.2.4 Experimentally altered bio-entities andnegationsIn order to characterize certain biological associa-tions, it is a common practice to alter the bio-entityof interest, with the assumption that a given ob-servation should change upon alteration.
This isthe case of mutations or deletions experimentallyintroduced to gene or protein sequences, with theunderlying assumption that the mutated or trun-cated protein/gene should loose it ability to bindor regulate another bio-entity, or even be non-functional.
Such mutations are useful to pin downthe actual biologically relevant functional parts ofbio-entities, which are usually of great therapeuticimportance (as target sites to inhibit certain bio-entities or interactions).
Such cases can be seen inthe example sentences provided below:?
Accordingly, this p73 N-terminal deletionwas unable to activate transcription or to in-duce apoptosis.?
The G62D mutant did not bind AMP at all.?
The resulting mutant SOS3 protein was notable to interact with the SOS2 protein kinaseand was less capable of activating it.?
MYB4 did not localize to the nucleus in thesad2 mutant, suggesting that SAD2 is re-quired for MYB4 nuclear trafficking.In these example cases, altered bio-entities did notdisplay the biological function of their wild type(unaltered) counterparts.3 Experimental qualifiersBiological annotation efforts are primarily con-cerned about experimentally confirmed events.Despite the importance of experimental qualifiers,only limited effort has been made to constructcomprehensive resources to retrieve assertions thathave experimental support and to construct usefullexical resources and thesauri of experimental evi-dence techniques.
To detect novel protein interac-tions that have been experimentally characterizedin the biomedical literature was one of the tasksposed in the BioCreative challenge, a communityeffort to assess text-mining tools developed for thebiomedical domain (Krallinger M, et al 2008).Also some systems to detect technical term men-tions have been developed such as Termine.
Arange of recurrent cues relevant for experimentalqualifiers can be observed in the literature, someof the most relevant ones are summarized in thetable 1.Using such experimental evidence cues togetherwith linguistic patterns and NLP techniques it isfeasible to determine whether a given event de-scribed in the literature has some sort of experi-48Cue Pattern PMIDreveal METHOD revealed that EVENT 12506203show METHOD showed that EVENT 17189287demonstrate METHOD demonstrated that EVENT 18466309study EVENT was studied by METHOD 15147239identify EVENT identified in METHOD 10905349prove EVENT proved by METHOD 16354655analyze EVENT analyzed by METHOD 9477575determine EVENT determined by METHOD 12006647confirm EVENT confirmed using METHOD 10788494obtain EVENT obtained by METHOD 16582012support EVENT supported by METHOD 18156215corroborate EVENT corroborated using METHOD 15757661validate EVENT validated by METHOD 17287294verify EVENT verified by METHOD 18296724detect EVENT detected with METHOD 14581623discover EVENT discovered by METHOD 11251078observe EVENT observed using METHOD 16778013test EVENTwas tested using METHOD 14646219Table 1: Experimental evidence cue terms.mental qualifier associated to it.
The simplest pat-terns of this sort would be for instance:?
METHOD cue (a|that|novel|the|this)?
METHOD cue that?
as cue by METHOD?
was cue by METHOD?
cue (in|by|here by|using|via|with) METHODApplying such patterns can be useful to con-struct automatically an experimental techniquedictionary that can be handcrafted to enrich ex-isting evidential qualifier resources.
Nevertheless,linking automatically extracted experiment termsto controlled vocabularies used for annotation inbiology is still a challenging task that need moremanually labeled textual data.
Some example sen-tences illustrating the usefulness of experimentalevidence cues can be seen below:?
Gel-shift and co-immunoprecipitation assayshave revealed that GT-1 can interact with andstabilize the TFIIA-TBP-TATA complex.?
By yeast two-hybrid assays, we demonstratean interaction of APC2 with two other APC/Csubunits.?
The specificity of interaction of VIRP1 withviroid RNA was studied by different method-ologies, which included Northwestern blot-ting, plaque lift, and electrophoretic mobilityshift assays.?
A complex containing Mus81p and Rad54pwas identified in immunoprecipitation exper-iments.?
In addition, we proved by affinity chromatog-raphy that NaTrxh specifically interacts withS-RNase.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank Yasmin Alam-Farugue (GOAteam at EBI) for useful information on the anno-tation of negative associations in GOA and RoserMorante for important feedback and suggestionson this topic.ReferencesMF.
Rogers and A. Ben-Hur.
2010.
The use of geneontology evidence codes in preventing classifier as-sessment bias., Bioinformatics, 25(9):1173-1177.M.
Krallinger and F. Leitner and C. Rodriguez-Penagosand A. Valencia 2008.
Overview of the protein-protein interaction annotation extraction task ofBioCreative II., Genome Biol., Suppl 2:S1.S.
Orchard and S. Kerrien 2010.
Molecular interac-tions and data standardisation., Methods Mol Biol.,604:309-31849
