Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, pages 72?79,Beijing, China, 21-22 August 2010. c?2010 Asian Federation for Natural Language ProcessingThe Annotation of Event Schema in ChineseHongjian Zou1,  Erhong Yang1, Yan Gao2, Qingqing Zeng11Institute of Applied Linguistics, Beijing Language and Culture University2Zhanjiang Normal Universityhongjianzou@gmail.com, yerhong@blcu.edu.cnAbstractWe present a strategy for revealingevent schema in Chinese based on themanual annotation of texts.
The overallevent information is divided into threelevels and events are chosen as the ele-mentary units in annotation.
Event-levelannotation content and the obtaining ofevents patterns are explored in detail.The discourse-level annotation, annota-tion of relations between events and an-notation of the functional attributes pro-vide a simple way to represent eventschema.1 IntroductionWhen we want to understand a report on occur-rences, we need to catch the following informa-tion: the categorization of events, the relation-ships between them, the participants and theattributes of the events such as polarity andmodality, the attitudes towards the events andthe following actions or consequences.
Only theinformation above cannot be the precisely de-scried.
Furthermore, we need to form a schemawhich incorporates all of the above, that is, tocompile all this information together to get theintegral structure about the report.The available annotated corpora concerningthe different types of information mentionedabove include: the event-annotated corpora suchas ACE corpora, the corpora annotating tempor-al information such as TimeBank, the corporaannotating event factuality such as FactBank,the corpora annotating various types of dis-course relations such as RST corpus and PennDiscourse TreeBank.
Meanwhile, we lack theannotation of event schema, which is importantfor providing the integral meaning of the reports.Currently for Chinese language, the annota-tion of event information corpora is just begin-ning and still far from being sufficient, whencompared with English, hence it needs furtherexploration.2 Related WorkThe work and theories concerning event schemaannotation can be divided into three categories.The first kind is focused on annotation of theevent argument structure, such as in ACE.
Thesecond kind is focused on annotation of thetemporal information and event factuality.
Thelast is focused on the annotation of the relationsamong different discourse units such as RSTcorpus and Penn Discourse TreeBank.ACE(2005) is an in-depth study of researchoriented annotated corpus for the purpose oftextual information extraction.
The annotationtask includes event annotation besides the anno-tation of entities, values and relations betweenentities.
The event annotation is limited to cer-tain types and subtypes of events, that is, Life,Movement, Transaction, Business, Conflict,Contact, Personnel, and Justice.
The argumentstructure of events including participants andother components such as time and place arepredefined and tagged.
Besides these, four kindsof attributes of events, polarity, tense, genericityand modality, are tagged.
The expression cha-racters of events, including the extent and thetriggers, are also tagged.TimeML(Pustejovsky et al, 2003; TimeML,2005) is a system for representing not only allevents but also temporal information.
Theevents tagged are not limited to certain types asin ACE, but are classified in a different way.Event tokens and event instances are distin-72guished and tagged respectively.
For each eventinstance, four kinds of attributes, namely, tense,aspect, polarity and modality are tagged.TimeML defines three kinds of links betweenevents and times.
TLINK represents temporalrelationships, including simultaneous, beforeand after.
SLINK represents subordinative rela-tionships.
And ALINK represents relationshipsbetween an aspectual event and its argumentevent.
Several TimeML corpora have beencreated now, including TimeBank andAQUAINT TimeML Corpus.FactBank(Roser and Pustejovsky, 2008, 2009;Roser, 2008) is a corpus that adds factuality in-formation to TimeBank.
The factual value ofevents under certain sources is represented bytwo kinds of attributes, modality and polarity.Besides the annotation of events and theirtemporal relationships or factuality information,there are various types of discourse annotation,which can be divided into two trends: one underthe guidance of a certain discourse theory(suchas RST) and the one independent of any specifictheory(such as PDTB).RST (Mann and Thompson, 1987; Taboadaand Mann, 2006) was originally developed aspart of studies on computer-based text genera-tion by William Mann and Sandra Thompson in1980s.
In the RST framework, the discoursestructure of a text can be represented as a tree.The leaves of the tree correspond to text frag-ments that represent the minimal units of thediscourse; the internal nodes of the tree corres-pond to contiguous text spans; each node is cha-racterized by its nuclearity and by a rhetoricalrelation that holds between two or more non-overlapping, adjacent text spans.
RST choosesthe clause as the elementary unit of discourse.All units are also spans, and spans may be com-posed of more than one unit.
RST relations aredefined in terms of four fields: (1) Constraintson the nucleus; (2) Constraints on the satellite;(3) Constraints on the combination of the nuc-leus and the satellite; and (4) Effects.
The num-ber and the types of relations are not fixed.
Itcan be reduced or extended.
Carlson et al (2003)describes the experience of developing a dis-course-annotated corpus grounded in theframework of Rhetorical Structure Theory.
Theresulting corpus contains 385 documents se-lected from the Penn Treebank.Penn Discourse TreeBank(Miltsakaki et al,2004; Webber et al, 2005) is to annotate themillion-word WSJ corpus in the Penn TreeBankwith a layer of discourse information.
Althoughthe idea of annotating connectives and their ar-guments comes from the theoretical work ondiscourse connectives in the framework of lexi-calized grammar, the corpus itself is not tied toany particular theory.
Discourse connectiveswere treated as discourse-level predicates ofbinary discourse relations that take two abstractobjects such as events, states, and propositions.The two arguments to a discourse connectivewere simply labeled Arg1 and Arg2.3 The Levels and Elementary Unit ofEvent Schema Annotation3.1 The Elementary Unit of Event SchemaAnnotationWhat counts as an elementary unit of EventSchema annotation in Chinese?It is common to set sentences or clause as thebasic units in discourse annotation such as RSTcorpus.
However, there will be certain limita-tions if we choose sentences or clauses as theelementary units of Chinese event schema anno-tation:First, a Chinese sentence is generally definedas a grammatical unit that has pauses before andafter it, a certain intonation, and expresses acomplete idea.
But the definition is not exact oroperational.
The only notable borders of Chi-nese sentences in writings are the punctuationsat the end of the sentences.
The same is true ofclauses in Chinese.Second, there is generally more than oneevent in a sentence or a clause in Chinese.Hence, if we choose sentences or clauses as thebasic units of event schema annotation, the rela-tions between the events in one sentence/clausecannot be described in detail.
For example:1.
??
24 ????????????????????????????
62 ??????
(In less than 24 hours, a fire sweptthrough an old people?s home in the Black Seacoast of southern Russia and killed at least 62people.)2.
?????????
22 ????????????????????????????????
(Earthquakes have hit the Aysen73region in southern Chile frequently since the22nd.
The government has declared the regionto be a state of "early warning".
)In example 1, there are two events in boldtype: the fire and the death in one sentence.
Inexample 2, there are also two events in a singlesentence: the earthquake and the declaration.The ?event?
in this paper covers the samemeaning defined by ACE(2005), which refers to"a specific occurrence involving participants".Zou and Yang(2007) shows that an averageof 2.3 times events per sentence are reported inChinese texts and hence chose events as the ba-sic discourse unit in their annotation.
This con-sideration also fits the elementary unit of eventschema annotation.3.2 Three Levels of Event Schema Annota-tionThe overall event information in a report iscomplex and consists of different levels.
In or-der to simplify the annotation task, we first di-vide the total event information into three levels,that is, the discourse level, the event level, andthe entity level, choosing the event as the ele-mentary unit of the event schema annotation.The event level is defined as the level relat-ing to atomic events.
A report of occurrencesalways has many related events that are veryeasy to recognize.
The events are atomic, whichmeans the events are divided into small and mi-nimal events.
For example, when reading a re-port about an earthquake that happened in Haiti,the reader will not only know about the earth-quake itself, but also other relating happeningssuch as the number of casualty or the followingsearch and rescue.
These things are divided intodifferent atomic events, though they are stilllinked closely.The entity level means the entities, times,and locations that are involved in events.
Forexample, in ?China rescues 115 from a floodedmine?, ?China?
is the agent of the rescue;?115(miners)?
are the recipients; ?a floodedmine?
is the location.
These three entities arethe arguments of the rescue event and should beannotated before tagging them as the argumentsof the rescue event.The discourse level is the level above theevent level which creates the integral meaningof the event schema.
For example, the reportconcerning the rescue of miners from a floodedmine involves the rescue, the coalmine accidentand possibly injuries.
These events are linkedtogether but have different significances withinthe report.
So it is necessary to annotate the dif-ferent significances of the events, as well as re-lations between events.The following passages discuss in detail theevent-level and the discourse-level annotation,while the entity-level annotation will not be dis-cussed considering its relative simplicity.4 Event-level Annotation4.1 Definition of EventsACE(2005) defines an event as follows: Anevent is a specific occurrence involving partici-pants.
An event is something that happens.
Anevent can frequently be described as a change ofstate.
According to ACE?s definition, we defineevent as the following: An Event is an occur-rence that catches somebody's attention and achange of state.4.2 Obtainment of  Event PatternsThe event patterns are the argument structuresof certain types of events, which are the direc-tors of argument annotation.
They are extractedfrom large-scale texts category by category.
Theabove categories are based on the classificationof sudden events.
In other words, sudden eventsare divided into 4 categories: natural disasters,accidental disasters, public health incidents,and social security incidents, and each categoryincludes different types of events, for example,the natural disasters includes earthquakes, tsu-namis, debris flows and so on.
In dealing with aspecific kind of texts, only the closely relatedevents that appear frequently are annotated.
Forexample, when annotating the events of earth-quake, only earthquake itself and closely relatedevents such as loss, rescue, etc, are annotated.The event patterns are manually extractedfrom real texts as follows, taking earthquake forinstance:?
A search engine is used to obtain the reportswhose titles and main bodies contain the keyword ?earthquake?, and then manually filter outthose texts whose topics are not;?
The remaining texts are then split into sen-tences and only the sentences that narrate anearthquake or are closely relate to the earth-quake are selected;74?
Specific entities in these sentences are re-placed with general tags such as ?<TIME>?,?<PER>?
and ?<LOC>?
to get the patterns forearthquake type events;?
Frequently used patterns for earthquakeevents are extracted from the descriptions;?
The arguments of the event are numbered insequence, and given corresponding explanations;?
The arguments are appended to event pat-terns when new roles are found.The following principles should be abided bywhen extracting event patterns:?
Event triggers are the words or expressionsthat indicate existence of an event or events.
Ifthere is an event trigger in a sentence, we con-sider that there exists a corresponding event;?
Event triggers of different categories indi-cate different kinds of events;?
Some arguments of an event can be indis-tinct in a sentence.
In other words, the differentroles of the same event need to be merged intodifferent patterns to get the complete argumentstructure of a certain event.Some arguments are common roles in manyevents, such as time, location, and some argu-ments are specific to some events, such as themagnitude, and the focus of an earthquake.
Af-ter the extraction of a certain amount of patterns,we can then merge the similar events.
So far, wehave obtained 31 categories of event patternsfor 4 topics of news events.Here is the event pattern corresponding to theearthquake event type extracted:arg0 Timearg1 Locationarg2 Magnitudearg3 Epicenterarg4 Focusarg5 Focal deptharg6 Quake-feeling locationsarg7 FrequencyTable 1.
The earthquake event pattern.4.3 Annotation of Types and ArgumentsAfter obtaining the event patterns, we can anno-tate the types and the arguments of events ac-cording to the predefined types and patterns.
If acertain event is not yet defined, the annotatorshould tag the event as ?Other?
and retag it laterafter obtaining the pattern of that category pro-vided that the category is not too rare in similarreports.The annotation of arguments consists of twosteps.
Firstly, we locate the entities and otherexpressions that belong to the arguments of acertain event.
Then, we locate the roles of fixedarguments according to the corresponding eventpattern.
The arguments of an event are sought inthe scope of the sentence in which the eventtrigger appears.For example, according to the earthquakeevent pattern listed before, the annotation of thefollowing sentence would be as follows:????????????????????
12???
4?
53?????????????????
16 ????????
?10 ?????????
7.0 ??
(The earth-quake, with a magnitude estimated at 7.0, struckHaiti at 4:53 p.m. local time and was centeredabout 16 kilometers southwest of Port-au-Prince, at a depth of 10 km, the U.S. GeologicalSurvey reported.
)arg0 Time????
12???
4?53?
(about 4:53 p.m. localtime)arg1 Locationarg2 Magnitude ??
7.0?
(7.0)arg3 Epicenter???????????16???
(16 kilometerssouthwest of Port-au-Prince)arg4 Focusarg5 Focal depth 10??
(10 km)arg6 Quake feelinglocationsarg7 Frequency 1Table 2.
The annotation of the Haiti Earthquake.4.4 Annotation of Event AttributesBesides the types and arguments, the attributesof events are also tagged, which is necessary fora comprehensive description of events.
Basedon the analysis of various attributes in the re-ports, we decided to annotate the following:Polarity, Modality, Tense, Aspect, Level, Fre-quency, Source, and Fulfillment.
Among theseattributes, Polarity, Modality and Tense areadopted by both ACE and TimeML.
Aspect,Frequency and Source are adopted by TimeML.The primary reason for annotating theseattributes is that they have an important role in75describing events in detail and different valuesof some attributes can even imply a totally dif-ferent meaning.Polarity is whether the event happened orwould happen.
The value of polarity can only beone between ?Positive?
and ?Negative?.
Forexample, in????????????????
(Fortu-nately the fires did not result in any casualties)the polarity of event ???
?
(injuries-or-deaths) is ?negative?.Modality is the possibility of the event.
Cur-rently, we divide modality simply into ?As-serted?
and ?Other?.
For example, in????????????????
(Manyresidents in earthquake-hit areas worry about arecurrence of the tsunami)the modality of event ???
?
(tsunami) is?Other?.Tense is the time the event happened com-pared with the time of the report.
It can be?Past?, ?Present?, ?Future?, or ?Underspeci-fied?.
For example, in????????????
(A Police investiga-tion is under way)the tense of event ????
(investigation) is?Present?.Aspect is whether or not the event is continu-ing or completed.
It can be ?Progressive?, ?Per-fective?
or ?Underspecified?.
In the sentenceabove, the aspect of event ????
(investigation)is ?Progressive?.Level is the extent of the events.
It can be?Serious?, ?Medium?
or ?Slight?.
If the annota-tor cannot make sure, it can also be ignored.
Forexample, in??????????
(Strong earthquake hitsIndonesian)the level of the event ????
(earthquake) is?Serious?.Frequency is how many times the event hap-pened.
Usually it is only once, yet sometimes,as mentioned above, it may be twice or more.Source consists of the source of the informa-tion about a certain event and the time the in-formation issued.
If not specialized, the sourceis equal to the source of the report itself and thetime of source is equal to the time that the reportwas issued.
For example, in?????
10 ????
(according to state-ments by the Paris police on 10th)the source is ??????
(the Paris police)and the time issued is ?10??
(the 10th).Fulfillment is an interesting attribute ofevents that deserves further study and will bediscussed in another paper.
This is an attributewhich is only applicable to man-made eventswith an emphasized intention, in other words, itis not applicable to those events occurring natu-rally.
It can be ?Fulfilled?, ?Unfulfilled?, or?Underspecified?.
For example, a rescue eventis deliberate and has or will have a result.
Forexample, in?????????
8???
115????
(China rescues 115 from flooded mine after 8days)the fulfillment of the event ???
(rescue) is?Fulfilled?.The complete attributes of an event can berepresented as a complex feature set as shownbelow:???????????
?Polarity?Positive/NegativeModality?Asserted/OtherTense?Past/Present/Future/UnderspecifiedAspect?Perfective/Progressive/UnderspecifiedLevel?Slight/Medium/SeriousFrequency?n?n ?
1?Source?
??time?1?Source?1????time?m?Source?n?Fulfillment??Fulfilled/Unfulfilled/Underspecified?????????????
?Figure 1.
The complex feature set of attributes.4.5 Annotation of IndicatorsThe recognition of types, arguments andattributes of the events not only depends on thesense of the annotator, but also depends on lin-guistic indicators within the text.
To locate theexistences of an event and its types, the annota-tor should find the lexical evidence that wecalled an Event Word (ACE call it a trigger)which clearly indicates something that has hap-pened.
In the following sentence,????
10 ???????????????
10 ??????????????
2 ??????????????????????
(According to statements made bythe Paris police on the 10th, serious fire sweptthrough an apartment building in district one in76Paris on the morning of the 10th, killing at least2 women, seriously injuring two firemen andcausing huge property damage.
)The Event Words ?
?
?
?
(fire), ?
??
?
(killing), ?
?
?
?
(injuring) and ?
??
?
(damage) in the sentence above indicatefour events respectively.Besides annotating Event Words for events,the annotator also needs annotating indicatorsfrom texts to help to locate the attributes of theevents.
The attributes annotated should be clear-ly indicated by some linguistic hints, so the val-ue of a certain attribute will not be specified ifthe hints are not so clear.5 Discourse-level AnnotationThe purpose of discourse level annotation is tointegrate the information from the event-levelinto a structure.
We annotate two kinds of dis-course information, the relationships amongevents as annotated before and the functionalattributes of events, to represent the eventschema.5.1 Annotation of Relations among EventsThe events in the same report are not self-sufficient or independent, but are linked by var-ious relationships, such as the causal relation-ships between an earthquake and an injury.Taking into account of both the frequency ofrelationships between events and the ease andaccuracy of distinguishing them, we have de-cided to focus on the following: causality, co-reference, sequential, purpose, part-whole, jux-taposition and contrast.Causality is very common in reports.
If eventA is responsible for the happening of event B,then there exists a causal relationship betweenA and B.
For example, in??????????????
7.0 ???????????????????????????
(A magnitude 7.0 earthquake hitHaiti, causing a hospital to collapse and da-maging government buildings in the capital cityof Port-au-Prince.
)there are three events, called ?
???
(earthquake), ????
(collapsing) and ????
(damaging), and a causal relationship be-tween ????
and ????
/???
?.Co-reference is not the relationship betweentwo different events but the relationship be-tween two expressions of events that refer to thesame object.Sequential is the relation between A and Bsuch that B follows A chronologically but thereis not necessarily a causal relationship betweenthem.
For example, in????????????????
22 ???
1?
17??????????????????????????????
(A 22-year-old woman died of illness on Jan. 17 inLagos, Nigeria's southern economic hub.
Afterbeing tested by the Nigerian health sector, itwas found that the woman had died of bird flu.
)the events ????
(death) and ????
(testing)have sequential relationship.Purpose is the relation between A and B thatA happened for B.
For example, in??????????????????????????????????????????
(The Nigerian government has alreadystrengthened hygienic supervision and regula-tion nationwide to control the spread of thehighly pathogenic avian influenza.
)the purpose of the event ????
(supervision)is to ????
(control).Part-whole relationship between A and B iswhen B is part of A.
For example, in??????????????????????????
138 ????????????
116 ????????
22 ???
?86 ?????
(Saomai caused significant ca-sualties in Fuding: at least 138 people havebeen killed so far, including 116 at sea, and 22were on land, with 86 missing.
)the event ????
(killed) appeared first andis part of the event ????
(casualties).Juxtaposition relationship means that A andB are caused by the same thing, or that A and Bare simultaneous.
For example, in??????????????????????????????????????????????
(Datong, Zuoyun authori-ties have made proper arrangements for thefamilies of trapped miners.
Meanwhile, the de-partment for environmental protection has beenmonitoring water quality.
)77the ????
(arrangement) and ????
(moni-toring) are simultaneous.Contrast relationship is when A wouldusually cause B, but here A happened and didn?tin fact cause B.
For example, in?????????
2 ?????
5?3 ????????????????????
(A 5.3 magnitude earthquake hit the central re-gion of Salvador on the 2nd, but caused no ca-sualties or property losses.
)the ????
(earthquake) usually causes ????
(casualties), but here there is no ???
?.The contrast relationship between A and B isnot equal to the negation of a causal relationship,because in a contrast relationship A is positiveand B is negative, while in the negation of caus-al relationship, the A is negative.Besides those relationships between eventsdescribed above, the annotator could tag therelation as ?Underspecified?
if he/she feels thatrelationship belongs to a new kind and deservesto be annotated.These relations are also annotated with theattributes similar to those of events, but onlyincluding Polarity, Modality, Tense, Aspectand Source.5.2 Annotation of Functional AttributesThe annotation of relations among events onlyrepresents the local discourse structure of thereport.
To represent the overall information it isnecessary to integrate the event-level informa-tion globally.
We find that the events annotatedin one text are not owning equal significance,and they can be divided into at least two basickinds according to their role in expressing thehighlight of the text.
The two basic kinds of rolewe decide to tag are ?core?
and ?related?.
Wecall this the functional attribute of the events.The core events are the events that are thetopics of the reports.
Other events are the re-lated events.
If core events were removed, theelementary topics would change and the remain-ing events could not easily be organized togeth-er well.
For example, in a report concerning theearthquake that happened in Haiti severalmonths ago, the report?s core events are theevents representing the earthquake.
The otherevents such as the rescue or the injuries are notintegral and cannot be meaningful alone.
But ifthe other events were removed, the topic andlogic of the report would still be clear, thoughthe details might be somewhat incomplete.After annotating the relationships amongevents and functional attributes of these events,we can represent a report about an earthquakewhich happened in Kyrgyzstan as follow:Figure 2.
Event schema of Kyrgyzstan earthquake.Nodes of 1, 3, 6, 7 and 8 represent earthquakes; Nodesof 2, 4, and 9 represent damage; Node 5 represents casual-ty; Nodes 10 represents investigation.In the graph above, the nodes represent theevents, and the edges represent the relationshipsbetween events.
The gray nodes represent thecore events, while the white nodes represent therelated events.
As can be seen from the graph,the core events are at the center of the text andthe related events are attached to the core events.6 Preliminary  Results and DiscussionIn order to check the taggability of the annota-tion strategy mentioned above, three graduatestudents manually annotated about 60 news re-ports in 3 categories, including earthquake, fireand attack, using sina search engine, accordingto the method and principles above.
Each textwas annotated by two annotators and discussedjointly if the annotation results were inconsis-tent or not proper.As can be seen from Table 3 below, 1) theevent patterns extracted can cover the texts wellbecause up to 78% sentences have been anno-tated.
2) There are 1.6 times more annotatedevents than annotated sentences.
This showsthat there is generally more than one event in asentence.
So, it is reasonable to assume that theannotation method can accomplish the task of adetailed description of relationships betweenevents.
3) The relevant events are more numer-causalitycausalitycontrastjuxtapositioncausalitysequencecoreferencecoreference coreferencecoreferencecoreference13245678910coreference78ous than the core events.
This shows that it isnecessary to distinguish the core events fromthe relevant events.C T S NS EV CE RE ARC1 20 277 45 361 191 170 588C2 20 309 66 394 183 211 515C3 20 356 93 401 121 280 605C4 60 942 204 1156 495 661 1708Table 3.
The annotation of EVENTsC: Sub-category; C1: earthquake; C2: fire;C3: terrorist attacks; C4: totalT: the number of texts; S: the number of sentencesNS: the number of sentences not annotatedEV: the number of EVENTsCE: the number of core EVENTsRE: the number of relevant EVENTsAR: the number of argumentsWe have also analyzed the event attributes indetail(Zou and Yang, 2010).
An interestingevent attribute is Fulfillment, which is only ap-plicable to those events with intentions whoseresult is often emphasized.
Sometimes, readerscare about the intended results or outcomes asmuch as or more than the events themselves.Therefore it would be useful to explore the no-tion of Fulfillment, and investigate which lin-guistic categories could play a role in decidingthe value of Fulfillment.
We plan to create aFulfillment corpus in the next stage.The annotation of event schema is time-consuming, partly because it needs to annotateall three levels of event information of everytext, and partly because of the difficulties toidentify the event information from trivial de-scriptions, in other words, one question we of-ten discuss is whether it deserves to annotatecertain parts of a text.
Also, we often need tomake a balance between obtaining enough eventpatterns to cover various types of related eventswell and omitting low frequent event types tosimply the obtainment of event patterns.
In dis-course-level annotation, the main difficulty isthe identification of relations between eventswithout lexical hints.
This discourse-level anno-tation is only just underway.
We also plan togive detailed analysis in the next stage.Acknowledgements.
This paper is sponsoredby National Philosophy and Social SciencesFund projects of China (No.
06YY047).ReferencesACE.
2005.
ACE (Automatic Content Extraction)Chinese Annotation Guidelines for Events.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Projects/ACE/docs/Chinese-Events-Guidelines_v5.5.1.pdfCarlson L., D. Marcu, M. E. Okurowski.
2003.Building a Discourse-Tagged Corpus in theFramework of Rhetorical Structure Theory.
Cur-rent Directions in Discourse and Dialogue, Janvan Kuppevelt and Ronnie Smith eds., KluwerAcademic Publishers.Mann W. and S. Thompson, 1987.
Rhetorical Struc-ture Theory: A Theory of Text Organization (No.ISI/RS-87-190).
Marina del Rey, CA, InformationSciences Institute.Miltsakaki E., R. Prasad, A. Joshi, and B. Webber.2004.
Annotating Discourse Connectives andtheir Arguments.
Proceedings of theHLT/NAACL Workshop on Frontiers in CorpusAnnotation.
Boston, MA.Pustejovsky J., J. Casta?o, R. Ingria, S. Roser R.Gaizauskas, A. Setzer and G. Katz.
2003.
TimeML:Robust Specification of Event and Temporal Ex-pressions in Text.
Fifth International Workshopon Computational Semantics.Taboada M. and W. Mann.
2006.
Rhetorical Struc-ture Theory: Looking Back and Moving Ahead.Discourse Studies 8(3): 423-459.TimeML.
2005.
Annotation Guidelines Version 1.2.http://www.timeml.org/site/publications/timeMLdocs/annguide_1.2.1.pdf.Webber B., A. Joshi, E. Miltsakaki, et al 2005.
AShort Introduction to the Penn Discourse Tree-Bank.
Copenhagen Working Papers in Languageand Speech Processing.Roser S. 2008.
A Factuality Profiler for Eventuali-ties in Text.
Ph.D. Thesis.
Brandeis University.Roser S. and J. Pustejovsky.
2008.
From Structure toInterpretation: A Double-layered Annotation forEvent Factuality.
Prooceedings of the 2nd Lin-guistic Annotation Workshop.Roser S. and J. Pustejovsky.
2009.
FactBank: ACorpus Annotated with Event Factuality.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.Zou H.J.
and E.H. Yang.
2007.
Event Counts asElementary Unit in Discourse Annotation.
Inter-national Conference on Chinese Computing 2007.Zou H.J.
and E.H. Yang.
2010.
Annotation of EventAttributes.
The 11th Chinese Lexical SemanticsWorkshop.79
