Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 144?152,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsIntegration of Static Relations to Enhance Event Extraction from TextSofie Van Landeghem1,2, Sampo Pyysalo3, Tomoko Ohta3, Yves Van de Peer1,21.
Dept.
of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, Gent, Belgium2.
Dept.
of Plant Biotechnology and Genetics, Ghent University, Gent, Belgium3.
Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japanyves.vandepeer@psb.vib-ugent.beAbstractAs research on biomedical text mining isshifting focus from simple binary relationsto more expressive event representations,extraction performance drops due to theincrease in complexity.
Recently intro-duced data sets specifically targeting staticrelations between named entities and do-main terms have been suggested to enablea better representation of the biologicalprocesses underlying annotated events andopportunities for addressing their com-plexity.
In this paper, we present the firststudy of integrating these static relationswith event data with the aim of enhanc-ing event extraction performance.
Whileobtaining promising results, we will arguethat an event extraction framework willbenefit most from this new data when tak-ing intrinsic differences between variousevent types into account.1 IntroductionRecently, biomedical text mining tools haveevolved from extracting simple binary relationsbetween genes or proteins to a more expressiveevent representation (Kim et al, 2009).
Further-more, new data sets have been developed target-ing relations between genes and gene products(GGPs) and a broader category of entities, cov-ering terms that can not be annotated as namedentities (NEs) but that are still highly relevantfor biomedical information extraction (Ohta et al,2009b).
In contrast to relations involving changeor causality, the annotation for this data covers re-lations such as part-of, here termed ?static rela-tions?
(SR) (Pyysalo et al, 2009).Tissue-specific expression of interleukin-3expression event GGPis mediated via cis-acting elements locatedregulation event               term part-of GGPwithin 315 base pairs of the transcription start.term part-of GGPFigure 1: A sentence from PMID:8662845, show-ing how the event data set (single line) and the SRdata set (double line) offer complementary infor-mation, enabling a more precise model of the bio-logical reality.As an example, Figure 1 depicts a sentence con-taining complementary annotations from the eventdata set and the SR data.
The event annotationindicates an expression event involving the GGP?interleukin-3?.
Furthermore, regulation of thisexpression event is stated by the trigger word ?me-diated?.
In addition, the SR annotation marks twoterms that refer to parts of the GGP, namely ?cis-acting elements?
and ?transcription starts?.
Thesetwo terms provide more detailed information onthe regulation event.
Thus, by combining the twotypes of annotation, a text mining algorithm willbe able to provide a more detailed representationof the extracted information.
This would be in par-ticular beneficial in practical applications such asabstract summarization or integration of the pre-dictions into complex regulatory pathways.In addition to providing enhanced represen-tation of biological processes, the SR data setalso offers interesting opportunities to improve onevent extraction.
As an example, consider the sen-tence presented in Figure 2, in which ?c-Rel?
and?p50?
are both annotated as being subunits of the144We show here that c-Rel binds toGGP_1   binding eventkappa B sites as heterodimers with p50.GGP_1 subunit-of Term GGP_2GGP_2 subunit-of TermFigure 2: A sentence from PMID:1372388, show-ing how SR data (double line) can provide strongclues for the extraction of biomolecular events(double line) from text.term ?heterodimers?.
The SR data thus providesstrong clues for the extraction of a Binding eventinvolving both c-Rel and p50.During the last few years, event extractionhas gained much interest in the field of nat-ural language processing (NLP) of biomedicaltext (Pyysalo et al, 2007; Kim et al, 2008; Kimet al, 2009).
However, owing to the more com-plex nature of this task setting, performance ratesare lower than for the extraction of simple bi-nary relations.
The currently best performingframework for event extraction obtains 53.29% F-score (Miwa et al, 2010), which is considerablylower than the performance reported for extrac-tion of protein-protein interaction relations, rang-ing between 65% and 87% depending on the dataset used for evaluation (Miwa et al, 2009).In this paper, we will study how data on staticrelations can be applied to improve event extrac-tion performance.
First, we describe the variousdata sets (Section 2) and the text mining frame-work that was applied (Section 3).
The main con-tributions of this paper are presented in Section 4,in which we study how static relation informationcan be integrated into an event extraction frame-work to enhance extraction performance.
Finally,Section 5 presents the main conclusions of thiswork.2 DataIn this section, we provide an overview of the twomain data sets used in this work: event annotation(Section 2.1) and static relation annotation (Sec-tion 2.2).2.1 Event DataThe BioNLP?09 Shared Task data, derived fromthe GENIA Event corpus (Kim et al, 2008), de-Event type Args Train Devel TestGene expression T 1738 356 722Transcription T 576 82 137Protein catabolism T 110 21 14Localization T 265 53 174Phosphorylation T 169 47 139Binding T+ 887 249 349Regulation T, C 961 173 292Positive regulation T, C 2847 618 987Negative regulation T, C 1062 196 379TOTAL - 8615 1795 3193Table 1: BioNLP ST events, primary argumenttypes and data statistics.
Arguments abbreviate for(T)heme and (C)ause, with + marking argumentsthat can occur multiple times for an event.
We re-fer to the task definition for details.fines nine types of biomolecular events and is di-vided into three data sets: training data, develop-ment data and final test data, covering 800, 150and 260 PubMed abstracts respectively.
The eventtypes and their statistics in the three data sets areshown in Table 1.In the shared task setting, participants were pro-vided with the gold annotations for Gene/GeneProduct (GGP) named entities, and for all threedata sets the texts of the abstracts and the goldGGP annotations are publicly available.
However,while full gold event annotation is available for thetraining and development data sets, the shared taskorganizers have chosen not to release the gold an-notation for the test data set.
Instead, access tooverall results for system predictions is providedthrough an online interface.
This setup, adopted inpart following a similar design by the organizers ofthe LLL challenge (Ne?dellec, 2005), is argued toreduce the possibility of overfitting to the test dataand assure that evaluations are performed identi-cally, thus maintaining comparability of results.For the current study, involving detailed analy-sis of the interrelationships of two classes of anno-tations, the lack of access to the gold annotationsof the test set rules this data set out as a poten-tial target of study.
Consequently, we exclude theblind test data set from consideration and use thedevelopment set as a test set.To simplify the analysis, we further focus ourefforts in this study on simple events involvingonly the given GGPs as participants.
In the fullshared task, events of the three Regulation typesmay take events as arguments, resulting in re-cursive event structures.
These event types werefound to be the most difficult to extract in the145SR type Examplesterm variant-of GGP [RFX5 fusion protein], [Tax mutants], [I kappa B gamma isoforms]term part-of GGP [murine B29 promoter], [c-fos regulatory region], [transactivation domain] of Stat6,the nearby [J element] of the human DPA gene,the [consensus NF-kappa B binding site] of the E-selectin geneGGP member-of term The [Epstein-Barr virus oncoprotein] latent infection membrane protein 1,[Ikaros family members], PU.1 is a transcription factor belonging to the [Ets-family]GGP subunit-of term the [NF-kappa B complex] contains both RelA and p50,Human TAFII 105 is a cell type-specific [TFIID] subunit, [c-Rel/p65 heterodimers]Table 2: Training examples of some of the SR types, including both noun phrase relations as well asrelations between nominals.
GGPs are underlined and terms are delimited by square brackets.shared task evaluation (Kim et al, 2009).
Fur-thermore, their inclusion introduces a number ofcomplications for evaluation as well as analysis,as failure to extract a referenced event implies fail-ure to extract events in which they appear as argu-ments.
We note that even with the limitations ofconsidering only the smallest of the three data setsand excluding Regulation events from considera-tion, the ST data still contains over 800 develop-ment test events for use in the analysis.2.2 Static Relation DataThe data on relations is drawn from two recentlyintroduced data sets.
Both data sets cover specifi-cally static relations where one of the participantsis a GGP and the other a non-GGP term.
TheGGPs are drawn from the data introduced in (Ohtaet al, 2009a) and the terms from the GENIA cor-pus term annotation (Kim et al, 2003), excludingGGPs.
The first data set, introduced in (Pyysalo etal., 2009), covers static relations involving GENIAcorpus terms that are annotated as participantsin the events targeted in the BioNLP?09 sharedtask.
The second data set, introduced in (Ohta etal., 2009b), contains annotation for relations hold-ing between terms and GGPs embedded in thoseterms.
In this study, we will use the non-embeddedrelations from the former data set, referring to thisdata as RBN for ?Relations Between Nominals?in recognition of the similarity of the task settingrepresented by this data set and the task of learn-ing semantic relations between nominals, as stud-ied e.g.
in SemEval (Girju et al, 2007; Hendrickxet al, 2009).
We use all of the latter data set,below referred to as NPR for ?Noun Phrase Re-lations?.
The NPR data set extends on the em-bedded part of the data introduced by (Pyysaloet al, 2009), increasing the coverage of terms in-cluded and the granularity of the annotated eventtypes.
While RBN only differentiates between adomain-specific Variant relation and four differentpart-whole relations, in NPR these are refined intomore than 20 different types.To apply these data sets together in a singleframework, it was necessary to resolve the differ-ences in the annotated relation types.
First, as thefiner-grained NPR types are organized in a hier-archy that includes the four part-whole relationsof the RBN categorization as intermediate types(see Fig.
1 in Ohta et al (2009b)), we collapsedthe subtypes of each into these supertypes.
Whilethis removes some potentially useful distinctions,many of the finer-grained types are arguably un-necessarily detailed for the purposes of the eventextraction task which, for example, makes no dis-tinctions between events involving different genecomponents.
Furthermore, the NPR annotationsalso define an Object-Variant class with multiplesubtypes, but as these were judged too diverse toprocess uniformly, we did not collapse these sub-types as was done for part-whole relations.
Rather,we divided them into ?near?
and ?far?
variants bya rough ?functional distance?
to the related GGP,as suggested by Ohta et al (2009b).
The relationsGGP-Modified Protein, GGP-Isoform and GGP-Mutant were accepted into the ?near?
set, expectedto provide positive features for inclusion in events,and the remaining subtypes into the ?far?
set, ex-pected to provide negative indicators.In addition to the primary annotation coveringstatic relations, the RBN annotation only recog-nizes a mixed ?other relation/out?
category, usedto annotate both GGP-term pairs for which thestated relation is not one of the targeted types (e.g.a causal relation) and pairs for which no relation isstated.
Due to the heterogeneity of this category,146it is difficult to make use of these annotations, andwe have chosen not to consider them in this work.By contrast, the NPR annotation also subdi-vides the ?other relation?
category into five spe-cific types, providing an opportunity to also usethe part of the data not strictly involving static re-lations.
We judged the classes labeled Functional,Experimental Method and Diagnosis and Ther-apeutics to involve terms where contained GGPnames are unlikely to be participants in statedevents and thus provide features that could serve aspotentially useful negative indicators for event ex-traction.
As an example, the Functional categoryconsists of GGP-term pairs such as GGP inhibitorand GGP antibody, where the term references anentity separate from the GGP, identified througha functional or causal relation to the GGP.
Assuch terms occur in contexts similar to ones stat-ing events involving the GGP, explicit marking ofthese cases could improve precision.
Consider, forexample, GGP1 binds GGP2, GGP1 binds GGP2promoter, GGP1 binds GGP2 inhibitor and GGP1binds GGP2 antagonist: a binding event involvingGGP1 and GGP2 should be extracted for the firsttwo statements but not the latter two.Table 2 lists some interesting examples of staticrelation grouped by type, including both nounphrase relations as well as relations between nom-inals.
The consolidated data combining the twostatic relations - related data sets are available atthe GENIA project webpage.13 MethodsThe text mining tool used for all analyses in thispaper is based on the event extraction frame-work of Van Landeghem et al (2009), whichwas designed specifically for participation in theBioNLP?09 Shared Task.
In this framework, trig-gers are discovered in text by using automati-cally curated dictionaries.
Subsequently, candi-date events are formed by combining these triggerswith an appropriate number of GGPs co-occurringin the same sentence.
For each distinct event type,a classifier is then built using all training examplesfor that specific type.
Final predictions are mergedfor all types, forming a complex interaction graphfor each article in the test set.To distinguish between positive instances andnegatives, the framework extracts rich feature vec-1http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIAbindsc-Relnsubjheterodimerp50prep_aspr ep_wi thweshownsubjhereadvmodcomplmthatccompsitesBkappann nnprep_toFigure 3: Dependency graph for the sentence ?Weshow here that c-Rel binds to kappa B sites as het-erodimers with p50?.
Words of the sentence formthe nodes of the graph, while edges denote theirsyntactic dependencies.tors by analyzing lexical and syntactic informationfrom the training data.
Subsequently, a supportvector machine (SVM) is built with these trainingpatterns.
The patterns include trigrams, bag-of-word features, vertex walks and information aboutthe event trigger.
As part of the current study dis-cusses the extension and generalization of thesefeature patterns (Section 4.4), we will briefly dis-cuss the various types in this section.To derive syntactic patterns, dependency pars-ing is applied using the Stanford parser (Klein andManning, 2003; De Marneffe et al, 2006).
Specif-ically, for each candidate event, the smallest sub-graph is built including the relevant nodes for thetrigger and the GGP names.
Each edge in this sub-graph then gives rise to a pattern including the in-formation from the connecting nodes (or vertices)in combination with the syntactic relation speci-fied by the edge.
Trigger words and GGP namesare blinded by replacing their text with the stringsprotx and trigger (respectively), resulting in highlygeneral features.Figure 3 depicts an exemplary dependencygraph.
For the Binding event between c-Rel andp50, the following vertex walks would be ex-tracted: ?trigger nsubj protx?, ?trigger prep-as het-erodimer?
and ?heterodimer prep-with protx?.147Events Training Dev.
testPos.
SR data 1190 32% 227 28%Neg.
SR data 841 22% 207 26%All SR data 1635 44% 350 43%Table 3: Number of events that can be linked to atleast one static relation, including explicitly anno-tated ?near miss?
negative annotations, also show-ing percentage of all gold-standard events.Furthermore, lexical information is provided bybag-of-word (BOW) features and trigrams.
BOWfeatures incorporate all words occurring as nodesin the dependency sub-graph.
They include highlyinformative words such as ?promoter?.
Trigramsare formed by combining three consecutive wordsin the sub-sentence delimited by the trigger andGGP offsets in text.
They are capable of captur-ing common phrases such as ?physical associationwith?.Finally, the lexical tokens of the event triggerare highly relevant to determine the plausibility ofthe event being a correct one.
For example, ?se-cretion?
points to a Localization event, but moregeneral words often lead to false candidate events,such as ?present?.
The part of speech tags of thetrigger words are also included as separate fea-tures.During feature generation, all lexical patternsare stemmed using the Porter stemming algo-rithm (Porter, 1980), creating even more generalfeatures and reducing sparseness of the featurevectors.4 ExperimentsThis section describes a thorough study on howdata on static relations can be integrated into anevent extraction framework.
First, we will analyzethe amount of useful complementary annotationsacross both data sets (Section 4.1).
Next, we de-scribe the generation and evaluation of new candi-date events using terms involved in static relations,in an effort to boost recall of the event predictions(Section 4.2).
To additionally improve on preci-sion, we have implemented a false positive filterexploiting SR annotations of GGPs involved in re-lations judged to serve as negative indicators, suchas ?GGP inhibitor?
(Section 4.3).
Finally, Section4.4 details experiments on the creation of more ex-tensive features for event extraction by includingstatic relation data.Predicted Percentageinstances of data setGene expression 63 17.70%Transcription 34 41.46%Protein catabolism 4 19.05%Phosphorylation 20 42.55%Localization 4 7.55%Binding 73 29.44%All events 198 24.54%Table 4: Maximal recall performance of event in-stances involving at least one non-NE term as ar-gument.
These terms are functioning as aliases forthe GGPs they are positively associated with.4.1 Analysis of complementary data acrossthe two data setsTo assess the usability of the SR data set for eventextraction, we first analyze the amount of comple-mentary annotations across the two data sets.
Onthe document level, the static relations data con-tains some annotation for 87.6% of all training setarticles and for 94.67% of the development testset, including both positive static relations as wellas explicitly negated ones.
Most articles from theevent data set thus involve terms at least poten-tially involved in static relations.Analyzing the overlap in more detail, we de-termined the number of events that could benefitfrom adding SR data by counting the number ofevents for which at least one GGP is also involvedin a static relation (either a positive or a negativeone).
Table 3 shows the results of this evalua-tion.
In the training data, 1635 events involve atleast one GGP with SR annotation, which is 44%of all events in the gold-standard annotation.
Forthe development test set, the number is 350 out ofthe 808 gold standard events, i.e.
43% of events.These development set events in particular will bethe subject of this study.4.2 Terms as aliases for related GGPsOur first application of static relations in an eventextraction framework involves the use of non-NEterms appearing in the SR data set as aliases for theGGPs they are positively associated with.
In theevent extraction framework, new candidate eventscan thus be formed by treating the terms as GGPs,and mapping them back to the real GGPs afterclassification.
This procedure is motivated by thedefinition of the various SR types and the under-lying biological processes.
For example, if a com-plex is known to activate the expression of a cer-148Recall Precision F-scoreGene expression 11.24% 81.63% 19.75%Transcription 20.73% 89.47% 33.66%Protein catabolism 19.05% 100.00% 32.00%Phosphorylation 36.17% 100.00% 53.12%Localization 3.77% 25.00% 6.56%Binding 12.50% 45.59% 19.62%All events 13.75% 67.27% 22.84%Table 5: Performance of event instances involv-ing at least one non-NE term as argument.
Theseterms are functioning as aliases for the GGPs theyare positively associated with.tain target GGP, then the various subunits of thiscomplex can be annotated as participants in thatevent.Obviously, this approach has some intrinsic lim-itations as not all GGPs occurring as argumentsin events have a corresponding term that could beused as alias.
However, from Table 3 it is clearthat it should still be possible to extract 227 goldstandard cases.
To test the limitation, we haveused the event extraction framework detailed inSection 3, removing the SVM classifier from thepipeline and simply labeling all candidate eventsas positive predictions.
The result indicates thatthe framework is capable of retrieving 198 of the227 gold standard cases (Table 4).
The 29 missingevents are due to trigger words not appearing (fre-quently) in the training set and thus missing fromthe dictionary, preventing the event to be formedas a candidate in the framework.Our results thus show that nearly 25% of allevents are potentially retrievable by using non-NEterms as aliases for GGPs.
However, the analy-sis also indicates that in this approach, some eventtypes are much easier to extract than others.
Forexample, less than 8% of Localization events canbe found with this setup, while maximal recall forPhosphorylation events is over 40%.
These re-sults reflect the intrinsic differences between eventtypes and the ways in which they are typically ex-pressed, and suggest that it should be beneficialfor event extraction to take these differences intoaccount when incorporating static relations.Having established an upper bound for recall, asubsequent experiment involves treating the newlycreated instances as normal candidate events.
Forclassification, we use an SVM trained on regularcandidate events involving GGPs, as this ensuressufficient training material.Both lexical and syntactic patterns are expectedBaseline Mergedpredictions predictionsGene expression 77.01% 77.56%Transcription 63.41% 64.24%Protein catabolism 86.36% 86.36%Phosphorylation 70.10% 76.47%Localization 80.00% 76.77%Binding 38.69% 40.52%All events 64.71% 65.33%All events (precision) 69.11% 67.19%All events (recall) 60.84% 63.57%Table 6: Performance of the event extractionframework.
First column: using only normalevents involving GGPs (?baseline?).
Second col-umn: merging the new predictions (Table 5) withthe first ones.
All performance rates indicate F-score, except for the last two rows.to be similar for events involving either non-NEterms or GGPs.
To test this hypothesis, we haverun the event-extraction pipeline for these new in-stances.
Evaluation is performed with the stan-dard evaluation script provided by the BioNLP?09Shared Task organizers, which measures the per-centage of true events amongst all predictions(precision), the percentage of gold-standard eventsrecovered (recall) and the harmonic mean of thesetwo metrics (F-score).
The results are detailed inTable 5.
While we have already established thatrecall is subject to severe limitations (Table 4), wenote in particular the high precision rates of thepredictions.
In particular, four out of six eventtypes achieve a precision rate higher than 80%.To allow for a meaningful comparison, these re-sults should be put into perspective by merging thenew predictions with the predictions of a baselineextractor and comparing against this baseline (Ta-ble 6).
This analysis reveals interesting results:while overall performance increases slightly from64.71% to 65.33% F-score, this trend is not com-mon to all event types.
For instance, prediction ofLocalization drops 3.23% points F-score.
Consid-ering the maximum recall results, this is not en-tirely surprising and confirms the hypothesis thatthe prediction of Localization events will not ben-efit from static relation data in this approach.However, we do observe a considerable increasein performance for Phosphorylation (6.37% pointsF-score) events and some increase for Bindingevents (1.83% points F-score).
This performanceboost is mainly caused by an increase in recall(10.64% and 4.43% points, respectively).
Whenconsidering all protein events, recall is increased149from 60.84% to 63.57% (Table 6, last row).
Theseresults clearly indicate that the inclusion of staticrelations can improve recall while retaining andeven slightly improving general performance.4.3 Using static relations to filter falsepositive eventsTo further improve event extraction performance,we have designed a false-positive (FP) filter usingspecific categories of relations serving as negativeindicators for event extraction.
In particular, wehave used the ?far variants?
and Functional rela-tion annotations, as described in Section 2.2.
Foreach such relation, we add the GGP involved tothe FP filter, as the GGP should not participate inany event.
Thus, for example, the GGP in ?GGPantibodies?
would be filtered as the GGP is con-sidered too far removed from the containing termto be a participant in any event in the context.In the development test set, this strategy has au-tomatically identified 24 relevant GGP mentionsthat should not be annotated as being involved inany event.
Even though this number is relativelysmall, we aim at designing a high specificity FPfilter while relying on the SVM classifier to solvemore ambiguous cases.Applying the FP filter to the baseline result de-tailed in Table 6, we find that 3 events are dis-carded from the set of predictions.
All three in-stances represented false positives; two of themwere Binding events and one a Gene expressionevent.
Overall precision and F-score increased by0.30% points and 0.13% points, respectively.4.4 Extended feature representationincorporating information on staticrelationsThe last type of experiment aims to boost bothprecision and recall by substantially extending thefeature generation module for event extraction us-ing the newly introduced SR data.
Table 3 showsthat such an enhanced feature representation couldinfluence 1190 events in the training data (1635events including negative annotations) and 227events in the development test data (350 includingnegative), covering a significant part of the dataset.Building further on the feature generation mod-ule described in Section 3, we have added a rangeof new features to the feature vectors while alsoproviding enhanced generalization of existing fea-tures.
Generalization is crucial for the text miningframework as it enables the extraction of relationsfrom new contexts and forms of statements.First, for each term involved in a static rela-tion with a GGP, the string of the term is includedas a separate feature.
This generates relation-associated features such as ?tyrosine?, which isstrongly correlated with Phosphorylation events.For terms spanning multiple tokens, we addition-ally include each token as a separate feature, cap-turing commonly used words such as ?promoter?or ?receptor?.
Each distinct feature is linked to itsspecific relation type, such as Part-of or Member-collection (Section 2.2).
To make use of annota-tion for ?near-miss?
negative cases, we generatefeatures also for these relations, marking each fea-ture to identify whether it was derived from a pos-itive or negative annotation.Additionally, we introduced a new feature typeexpressing whether or not the trigger of the eventis equal to a term related to one or more GGPs in-volved in the event.
As an example, suppose thecandidate event is triggered by the word ?homod-imer?.
If the GGP involved is annotated as being asubunit of this homodimer, this provides a strongclue for a positive event.
Similarly, the explicitnegation of the existence of any static relation in-dicates a negative event.Apart from these new features, we have also in-vestigated the use of static relations to create moregeneral lexical patterns.
In particular, we have ad-justed the lexical information in the feature vectorby blinding terms involved in relevant relations,depending on the specific type of relation.
Foreach such term, the whole term string is replacedby one word, expressing the type of the static re-lation and whether the relation is positive or neg-ative.
This results in more general patterns suchas ?inhibit prep-to partx?
(vertex walk) or ?activin nonpartx?
(trigram).
In Figure 3, ?heterodimer?would be blinded as ?complexx?
as both c-Rel andp50 are members of this complex.Initial experiments with the extended featurerepresentation showed that an increase in perfor-mance could be obtained on the development testset, achieving 61.34% recall, 69.58% precisionand 65.20% F-score.
However, it also becameclear that not all event types benefit from the newfeatures.
Surprisingly, Binding is one such exam-ple.
We hypothesize that this is mainly due to theintrinsic complexity of Binding events, requiringan even more advanced feature representation.150Baseline Newpredictions predictionsGene expression 77.01% 78.06%Transcription 63.41% 63.80%Protein catabolism 86.36% 86.36%Phosphorylation 70.10% 76.29%Localization 80.00% 84.21%Binding 38.69% 38.34%All events 64.71% 65.73%All events (precision) 69.11% 69.99%All events (recall) 60.84% 61.96%Table 7: Performance of the event extractionframework.
First column: using the baseline fea-ture representation.
Second column: using theextended feature representation.
All performancerates indicate F-score, except for the last two rows.To take the inherent differences between vari-ous event types into account, we selected the opti-mal set of features for each type.
In a new experi-ment, the feature generation step thus depends onthe event type under consideration.
Table 7 detailsthe results of this optimization: an overall F-scoreof 65.73% is achieved.
Similar to the experimentsin Section 4.2, the F-score for the prediction ofPhosphorylation events increases by 6.19% points.Additionally, in this experiment we obtain an in-crease of 4.21% points in F-score for Localizationevents, even though we were unable to improveon them when using terms as aliases for additionalcandidate events (Section 4.2).
Additional exper-iments suggested the reason to be that while theLocalization event type in general does not ben-efit from positive static relations, negative staticrelations seem to provide strong clues to the SVMclassifier.5 ConclusionWe have presented the first study on the appli-cability of static relations for event predictionin biomedical texts.
While data on static rela-tions can offer a more detailed representation ofbiomolecular events, it can also help to boostthe performance of event prediction.
We haveperformed three sets of experiments to investi-gate these opportunities.
First, we have designednew candidate events by treating non-NE termsas aliases for the GGPs they are associated with.By augmenting the normal event predictions withpredictions for these new candidates, we have es-tablished a considerable increase in recall.
Next,we have implemented a false positive filter to im-prove precision, by exploiting annotation for re-lations judged to imply only distant associationsof the GGP and the enclosing term.
Finally, thelast type of experiment involves integrating com-plementary data on static relations to obtain moreinformative feature vectors for candidate events.Results show that both recall and precision can beincreased slightly by this last, more complex con-figuration.During the experiments, it has become clear thatthere are important differences between the datasets of distinct event types.
For example, we havefound that Phosphorylation events benefit the mostfrom added static relations data, while Localiza-tion events can be enhanced using only featuresof negative static relation annotations.
For someevent types, such as Protein catabolism, the cur-rent techniques for integration of static relationsdo not generate a performance boost.
However,our findings pave the way for experiments involv-ing more detailed representations, taking the in-trinsic properties of the various event types intoaccount and combining the various ways of inte-grating the new information.
We regard these op-portunities as promising future work.Finally, having established the potential addedvalue offered by data on static relations in an eventextraction framework, additional future work willfocus on the automatic extraction of the static re-lations.
Similar relations have been considered innumerous recent studies, and while challenges toreliable prediction remain, several methods withpromising performance have been proposed (Girjuet al, 2007; Hendrickx et al, 2009).
By inte-grating predictions from both static relations andevents instead of using gold standard relation an-notations, we will be able to study the effect ofthe relation information on new data, including theshared task test set.
Such experiments are key toestablishing the practical value of static relationsfor biomolecular event extraction.AcknowledgmentsSVL would like to thank the Research Founda-tion Flanders (FWO) for funding her research.The work of SP and TO was partially supportedby Grant-in-Aid for Specially Promoted Research(MEXT, Japan).ReferencesM.
De Marneffe, B. Maccartney, and C. Manning.2006.
Generating typed dependency parses from151phrase structure parses.
In Proceedings of LREC-06, pages 449?454.Roxana Girju, Preslav Nakov, Vivi Nastase, Stan Sz-pakowicz, Peter Turney, and Deniz Yuret.
2007.Semeval-2007 task 04: Classification of semanticrelations between nominals.
In Proceedings of theFourth International Workshop on Semantic Evalu-ations (SemEval-2007), pages 13?18, Prague, CzechRepublic, June.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Iris Hendrickx, Su Nam Kim, Zornitsa Kozareva,Preslav Nakov, Diarmuid O?
Se?aghdha, SebastianPado?, Marco Pennacchiotti, Lorenza Romano, andStan Szpakowicz.
2009.
Semeval-2010 task8: Multi-way classification of semantic relationsbetween pairs of nominals.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Semantic Evaluations: RecentAchievements and Future Directions (SEW-2009),pages 94?99, Boulder, Colorado, June.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2003.
GENIA corpus - a seman-tically annotated corpus for bio-textmining.
Bioin-formatics, 19(suppl.
1):i180?i182.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.2008.
Corpus annotation for mining biomedi-cal events from literature.
BMC Bioinformatics,9(1):10.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Overview ofbionlp?09 shared task on event extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop CompanionVolume for Shared Task, pages 1?9, Boulder, Col-orado, June.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Dan Klein and Christopher D. Manning.
2003.
Ac-curate unlexicalized parsing.
In Proceedings of the41st Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pages 423?430, Sapporo,Japan, July.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Makoto Miwa, Rune Saetre, Yusuke Miyao, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
A rich feature vector forprotein-protein interaction extraction from multiplecorpora.
In EMNLP ?09: Proceedings of the 2009Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 121?130, Morristown, NJ,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Makoto Miwa, Rune Saetre, Jin-Dong D. Kim, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2010.
Event extraction with com-plex event classification using rich features.
Jour-nal of bioinformatics and computational biology,8(1):131?146, February.Claire Ne?dellec.
2005.
Learning language in logic -genic interaction extraction challenge.
In Proceed-ings of the Learning Language in Logic Workshop(LLL?05).Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, Sampo Pyysalo, YueWang, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009a.
Incorporatinggenetag-style annotation to genia corpus.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop, pages 106?107, Boulder, Colorado, June.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Kim Jin-Dong, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009b.
A re-evaluation of biomedi-cal named entity - term relations.
In Proceedings ofLBM?09.M.
F. Porter.
1980.
An algorithm for suffix stripping.Program, 14(3):130?137.Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, Juho Heimonen, JariBjo?rne, Jorma Boberg, Jouni Ja?rvinen, and TapioSalakoski.
2007.
Bioinfer: a corpus for informationextraction in the biomedical domain.
BMC bioinfor-matics, 8(1):50+.Sampo Pyysalo, Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Static relations: a piece in thebiomedical information extraction puzzle.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop, pages 1?9,Boulder, Colorado, June.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Sofie Van Landeghem, Yvan Saeys, Bernard De Baets,and Yves Van de Peer.
2009.
Analyzing text insearch of bio-molecular events: a high-precision ma-chine learning framework.
In BioNLP ?09: Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on BioNLP, pages 128?136, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.152
