Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Finding the Common Ground, ACL 2010, pages 1?9,Uppsala, Sweden, 16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsModeling and Encoding Traditional Wordlists for Machine ApplicationsShakthi PoornimaDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity at BuffaloBuffalo, NY USApoornima@buffalo.eduJeff GoodDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity at BuffaloBuffalo, NY USAjcgood@buffalo.eduAbstractThis paper describes work being done onthe modeling and encoding of a legacy re-source, the traditional descriptive wordlist,in ways that make its data accessible toNLP applications.
We describe an abstractmodel for traditional wordlist entries andthen provide an instantiation of the modelin RDF/XML which makes clear the re-lationship between our wordlist databaseand interlingua approaches aimed towardsmachine translation, and which also al-lows for straightforward interoperationwith data from full lexicons.1 IntroductionWhen looking at the relationship between NLPand linguistics, it is typical to focus on the dif-ferent approaches taken with respect to issueslike parsing and generation of natural languagedata?for example, to compare statistical NLP ap-proaches to those involving grammar engineering.Such comparison is undoubtedly important insofaras it helps us understand how computational meth-ods that are derived from these two lines of re-search can complement each other.
However, onething that the two areas of work have in commonis that they tend to focus on majority languagesand majority language resources.
Even where thisis not the case (Bender et al, 2002; Alvarez et al,2006; Palmer et al, 2009), the resulting productsstill cover relatively few languages from a world-wide perspective.
This is in part because suchwork cannot easily make use of the extensive lan-guage resources produced by descriptive linguists,the group of researchers that are most actively in-volved in documenting the world?s entire linguis-tic diversity.
In fact, one particular descriptive lin-guistic product, the wordlist?which is the focusof this paper?can be found for at least a quarterof the world?s languages.Clearly, descriptive linguistic resources can beof potential value not just to traditional linguis-tics, but also to computational linguistics.
Thedifficulty, however, is that the kinds of resourcesproduced in the course of linguistic descriptionare typically not easily exploitable in NLP appli-cations.
Nevertheless, in the last decade or so,it has become widely recognized that the devel-opment of new digital methods for encoding lan-guage data can, in principle, not only help descrip-tive linguists to work more effectively but also al-low them, with relatively little extra effort, to pro-duce resources which can be straightforwardly re-purposed for, among other things, NLP (Simons etal., 2004; Farrar and Lewis, 2007).Despite this, it has proven difficult to createsignificant electronic descriptive resources due tothe complex and specific problems inevitably as-sociated with the conversion of legacy data.
Oneexception to this is found in the work done inthe context of the ODIN project (Xia and Lewis,2009), a significant database of interlinear glossedtext (IGT), a standard descriptive linguistic dataformat (Palmer et al, 2009), compiled by search-ing the Web for legacy instances of IGT.This paper describes another attempt to trans-form an existing legacy dataset into a more read-ily repurposable format.
Our data consists of tra-ditional descriptive wordlists originally collectedfor comparative and historical linguistic research.1Wordlists have been widely employed as a firststep towards the creation of a dictionary or as ameans to quickly gather information about a lan-guage for the purposes of language comparison(especially in parts of the world where languages1These wordlists were collected by Timothy Usher andPaul Whitehouse and represent an enormous effort withoutwhich the work described here would not have been possible.The RDF/XML implementations discussed in this paper willbe made available at http://lego.linguistlist.orgwithin the context of the Lexicon Enhancement via theGOLD Ontology project.1are poorly documented).
Because of this, theyexist for many more languages than do full lexi-cons.
While the lexical information that wordlistscontain is quite sparse, they are relatively consis-tent in their structure across resources.
This al-lows for the creation of a large-scale multilingualdatabase consisting of rough translational equiva-lents which may lack precision but has coveragewell-beyond what would otherwise be available.2 The Data and Project BackgroundThe data we are working with consists of 2,700wordlists drawn from more than 1,500 languages(some wordlists represent dialects) and close to500,000 forms.
This is almost certainly the largestcollection of wordlists in a standardized format.The average size of the individual wordlists israther small, around 200 words, making themcomparable in size to the resources found ina project like NEDO (Takenobu, 2006), thoughsmaller than in other related projects like thosediscussed in section 4.
While the work describedhere was originally conceived to support descrip-tive and comparative linguistics, our data modeland choice of encoding technologies has had theadditional effect of making these resources read-ily exploitable in other domains, in particular NLP.We have approached the data initially as tradi-tional, not computational, linguists, and our firstgoal has been to encode the available materialsnot with any new information but rather to trans-fer the information they originally contained in amore exploitable way.By way of introduction, the hypothetical exam-ple in (1) illustrates a traditional presentation for-mat of a wordlist, with English as the source lan-guage and French as the target language.
(1) MAN hommeWOMAN femmeAs we will describe in more detail in section 5,they key features of a wordlist entry are an indexto a concept assumed to be of general provenance(e.g., MAN) and a form drawn from a specific lan-guage (e.g.
homme) determined to be the counter-part for that concept within that language.
Mosttypically, the elements indexing the relevant con-cepts are words drawn from languages of widercommunication (e.g., English or Spanish).3 Related Work in DescriptiveLinguisticsRecent years have seen a fair amount of attentionpaid to the modeling of traditional linguistic datatypes, including lexicons, glossed texts, and gram-mars (Bell and Bird, 2000; Good, 2004; Palmerand Erk, 2007; Nordhoff, 2008).
The data type offocus here, wordlists, has not seen serious treat-ment.
Superficially, wordlists resemble lexiconsand, of course, they can be considered a kind oflexical resource.
However, as will be shown insection 5, there are important differences betweenlexicons and wordlists which have implications forhow they should be modeled.Most of the work on modeling descriptive lin-guistic data types has proceeded without specialconsideration for possible NLP applications forthe data being encoded.
This is largely because thework was initially a response to issues relating tothe longevity of digital descriptive data which was,otherwise, quite often being encoded solely in (of-ten proprietary) presentation formats (Bird and Si-mons, 2003).
However, the possibility for fruitfulinteraction between computational linguistics anddescriptive linguistics is apparent and has been thesubject of some work (Palmer et al, 2009).The work described here is also interested inthis possibility.
In particular, we address the ques-tion of how to model and encode a large-scaledataset that was originally intended to be used fordescriptive purposes in ways that not only allow usto faithfully represent the intention of the originalcreator but also permit the data to be straightfor-wardly exploitable for new uses, including NLP.To the best of our knowledge, our work is innova-tive both because of the data type being exploredand because the data modeling is being done par-allel with the transformation of a legacy resourcewith significant coverage of the world?s languages.This stands in contrast to most other work (again,with the exception of work done within ODIN(Xia and Lewis, 2009)) whose data, while repre-sentative, is not of the same scale.4 Related Work on LexiconInteroperability in NLPThe relevant related work in NLP is that focusedon interoperation among lexical resources.
Oneway to achieve this is to make use of language in-dependent ontologies (or comparable objects) forword meanings which can serve as pivots for mul-2tilingual applications (Ide et al, 1998; Vossen,2004; Nirenburg et al, 2004; Ronzano et al,2010).
The word senses provided by WordNet, forexample, have been used for this purpose (O?Haraet al, 1998).A recognized data modeling standard for lexi-cal interoperation is the Lexical Markup Frame-work (LMF), which provides standardized frame-work for the description and representation of lex-icons (Francopoulo et al, 2009).
Instantiations ofLMF have also been extended to represent Word-Nets, e.g., Wordnet-LMF (Soria et al, 2009), inways which facilitate interoperation.While we do not attempt to express the datamodel we develop here in LMF, doing so shouldbe relatively straightforward.
The key conceptualobservation is to recognize that the sets of mean-ing labels found in wordlists (see section 2) canbe treated either as a shared language-neutral on-tology or as a kind of interlingua, both of whichhave already been the subject of LMF modeling(Vossen, 2004).
As such, they are also compa-rable to language-independent ontologies of wordmeaning, bringing them in line with the work onmultilingual NLP mentioned above.These similarities should not be too surprising.After all, one of the functions of wordlists hasbeen to facilitate language comparison, somethingwhich is also at the heart of multilingual NLP.An important development, however, is that newdata encoding technologies can allow us to en-code word list data in ways that facilitate its re-purposing for NLP applications much more easilythan would have been possible previously.
We willcome back to this in section 6.5 Modeling Wordlists5.1 Wordlist Entries as Defective SignsA common linguistic conceptualization of a lexi-cal item is to treat it as a sign triple: an associationof a form with meaning and grammar.
Lexicalitems in a lexicon generally contain informationon all three aspects of this triple.
Wordlists do not,and the information they encode is quite sparse.In general, they give no indication of grammaticalinformation (e.g., part of speech), nor of language-specific semantics.In addition, from a descriptive standpoint, lex-icons and wordlists differ in the direction of theform-meaning mapping.
As the example in (1)suggests, in order to create or interpret a wordlist,one begins with an abstract meaning, for exampleMAN, and then tries to find the word in the tar-get language which represents the best semanticfit for that meaning.
Lexicons, on the other hand,prototypically map in the opposite direction fromform to meaning.
Furthermore, as will be elab-orated in section 5.3, the meanings employed inwordlists are not intended to refer to meanings oflexical items in specific languages.
In this way,they are quite distinct from bilingual dictionaries.We can therefore view a wordlist as a set of de-fective signs?containing information on the formand meaning parts of the triple, but not the gram-mar.
The meaning information is not directly asso-ciated with the specific form but, rather, is a kindof ?tag?
indicating that the entire sign that a givenform is associated with is the best counterpart inthe language for a general concept.Figure 1 compares the kind of information asso-ciated with signs in a lexicon to those in a wordlist.The box on the left gives a schematic form-grammar-meaning triple for the Spanish wordperro ?dog?, containing the sort of information thatmight be found in a simple bilingual dictionary.The box on the right schematizes the content ofa parallel French wordlist entry for chien ?dog?.Here, no grammatical or semantic information isassociated with the form, but there is an indicationthat in French, this lexical item is the closest coun-terpart to the general concept DOG.
Of course, inthis case, the word chien is not only the counter-part of DOG in French, but can be translated asdog in English.
The semantic connection betweena concept label and a lexical item may not alwaysbe so straightforward, as we will see in section 5.2.perronoundogchienDOGFigure 1: Lexicon sign versus wordlist sign5.2 Mapping between Form and ConceptA challenge in comparing lexical data among nu-merous languages is that a complete match be-tween a word?s meaning and a general conceptrarely occurs within a single language, let alne3across languages (Haspelmath and Tadmor, 2009).Therefore, in order to describe the relationship be-tween form and meaning in a wordlist, we usethe term counterpart, in the sense developed byHaspelmath and Tadmor (2009).
This is in con-trast to related notions like definition or trans-lation.
While the meanings found in wordlistscould, in some cases, be interpreted as definitionsor translations, this is not how they are conceivedof in their core function.
Rather, they are intendedto refer to language-independent concepts whichhave been determined to be a useful way to beginto explore the lexicon of a language.A key property of the counterpart relationshipis that that even if one particular language (e.g.,English or Spanish) is used to refer to a particularconcept (e.g., MAN), it is not the idiosyncratic se-mantics of the word in that language that is used todetermine the relevant wordlist entry in the targetlanguage.
For instance, the meaning of the Englishword MAN is ambiguous between human and malehuman but the term in (1) only refers to human.In using a language of wider communication, thegoal is to find the closest counterpart in the targetlanguage for a general concept, not to translate.We therefore distinguish between the meaningsassociated with words in a given language fromthe more general meanings found in wordlists byusing the term concept for the latter.
Thus, awordlist entry can be schematized as in (2) wherea concept and a lexical item are related by thehasCounterpart relation.
In attested wordlistentries, the concept is, as discussed, most typicallyindexed via a language of wider communicationand a lexical item is indexed via a transcriptionrepresenting the lexical item?s form.
(2) CONCEPT hasCounterpart lexicalItemThe counterpart relation is, by design, a rela-tively imprecise one since a lack of precision fa-cilitates the relatively rapid data collection that isconsidered an important feature of wordlist cre-ation.
The meaning of a given counterpart couldbe broader or narrower than that of the relevantconcept, for example (Haspelmath and Tadmor,2009, p. 9).
In principle, the counterpart relationcould be made more precise by specifying, for ex-ample, that the relevant relation is sub-counterpartfor cases where a word in a target language refersto a concept narrower than the one referred to inthe word list, as illustrated in (3) for English asthe target language.
There are other logical kindsof counterpart relationships as well (e.g., super-counterpart), and the example is primarily for il-lustrative purposes.
In our database, we only em-ploy the counterpart relation since that was thelevel of precision found in the original data.
(3) PARENT?S SIBLING hasSubCounterpartaunt, uncleThough the canonical case for the counterpartrelation is that there will be one counterpart fora given concept, this is often not the case in lan-guages and in our data.
To take an example froma familiar language, the English counterpart forMOVIE could reasonably be film or movie, and itis quite easy to imagine a wordlist for Englishcontaining both words.
The entry in (4) from thedataset we are working with gives an example ofthis from a wordlist of North Asmat, a languagespoken in Indonesia.
The concept GRANDFATHERhas two counterparts, whose relationship to eachother has not been specified in our source.
(4) GRANDFATHER hasCounterpart -ak, afakData like that in (4) has led us to add an ad-ditional layer in our model for the mapping be-tween concept and form allowing for the possibil-ity that the mapping may actually refer to a groupof forms.
With more information, of course, onemay be able to avoid mapping to a group of formsby, for example, determining that each member ofthe group is a sub-counterpart of the relevant con-cept.
However, this information is not available tous in our dataset.5.3 The ConcepticonThe concepts found in wordlists have generallybeen grouped into informally standardized lists.Within our model, we treat these lists as an objectto be modeled in their own right and refer to themas concepticons (i.e., ?concept lexicon?).
As willbe discussed in section 6, a concepticon is simi-lar to an interlingua, though this connection hasrarely, if ever, been explicitly made.As understood here, concepticons are simplycurated sets of concepts, minimally indexed viaone or more words from a language of wider com-munication but, perhaps, also more elaboratelydescribed using multiple languages (e.g., Englishand Spanish) and illustrative example sentences.Concepticons may include terms for concepts of4such general provenance that counterpart wordswould be expected to occur in almost all lan-guages, such as TO EAT, as well as terms that mayoccur commonly in only a certain region or lan-guage family.
For instance, Amazonian languagesdo not have words for SNOWSHOE or MOSQUE,and Siberian languages do not have a term forTOUCAN (Haspelmath and Tadmor, 2009, p. 5?6).The concepticon we are employing has beenbased on three different concept lists.
Of these,the most precise and recently published list is theLoanword Typology (LWT) concepticon (Haspel-math and Tadmor, 2009), which consists of 1,460entries and was developed from the Intercontinen-tal Dictionary Series2 (IDS) concepticon (1,200entries).
The LWT concepticon often offers moreprecision for the same concept than the IDS list.For instance, the same concept in both LWT andIDS is described in the LWT list by labeling anEnglish noun with the article the (5) in order toclearly distinguish it from a homophonous verb.
(5) LWT: THE DUSTIDS: DUSTIn addition, certain concepts in the IDS concep-ticon have been expanded in the LWT list to makeit clearer what kinds of words might be treatableas counterparts.
(6) IDS: THE LOUSELWT: THE LOUSE, HEAD LOUSE, BODYLOUSEThe concepts in LWT and IDS concepticons re-fer to a wide range of topics but, for historicalreasons, they are biased towards the geograph-ical and cultural settings of Europe, southwestAsia, and (native) South America (Haspelmathand Tadmor, 2009, p. 6).
The unpublished Usher-Whitehouse concepticon (2,656 entries), used tocollect the bulk of the data used in the work de-scribed here, includes LWT and IDS concepticonsbut also adds new concepts, such as WILDEBEESTor WATTLE, in order to facilitate the collection ofterms in languages from regions like Africa andPapua New Guinea.
Furthermore, certain conceptsin the LWT and IDS lists are subdivided in theUsher-Whitehouse concepticon, as shown in (7).2http://lingweb.eva.mpg.de/ids/(7) 1.
LWT: TO BREAK2.
IDS: BREAK, TR3.
Usher-Whitehouse:(a) BREAK, INTO PIECES(b) BREAK, BY IMPACT(c) BREAK, BY MANIPULATION(d) BREAK, STRINGS ETC.
(e) BREAK, LONG OBJECTS(f) BREAK, BRITTLE SURFACESOur unified concepticon combines informationfrom the LWT, IDS, and Usher-Whitehouse lists.This allow us to leverage the advantages of the dif-ferent lists (e.g., the expanded term list in Usher-Whitehouse against the more detailed concept de-scriptions of LWT).
No wordlist in our databasehas entries corresponding to all of the conceptsin our concepticon.
Nonetheless, we now have adataset with several thousand wordlists whose en-tries, where present, are linked to the same con-cepticon, thereby facilitating certain multilingualand cross-lingual applications.5.4 The Overall Structure of a WordlistWe schematize our abstract wordlist model in Fig-ure 2.
The oval on the left represents the languagebeing described, from which the word forms aredrawn (see section 5.1).
On the right, the boxrepresents a concepticon (see section 5.3) wherethe concepts are listed as a set of identifiers (e.g.,1.PERSON) that are associated with labels and re-lated to their best English counterpart.
Of course,the labels could be drawn from languages otherthan English, and other indexing devices, such aspictures, could also be used.Counterparts from the language being describedfor the relevant concepts are mapped to blocks ofdefective signs (most typically containing just onesign, but not always?see section 5.2) which are,in turn, associated with a concept.
The schema-tization further illustrates a possibility not yet ex-plicitly discussed that, due to the relatively impre-cise nature of the counterpart relation, one groupof forms may be the counterpart for multiple con-cepts.
In short, the mapping between forms andconcepts is not necessarily particularly simple.6 Implementing the ModelWe have used the conceptual model for wordlistsdeveloped in section 5 to create a wordlist5DescribedVarietyof a LanguageConcepticon1.
PERSON2.
MAN3.
WOMAN4.
HORSE5.
EWEinEnglish"person"inEnglish"man"inEnglish"woman"inEnglish"horse"inEnglish"ewe"...Figure 2: Wordlist modeled as a mapping between a language and a concepticon via blocks of signsdatabase using Semantic Web technologies, in par-ticular RDF/XML, which we expect to have bothresearch and practical applications.Each wordlist in our database consists of twocomponents: a set of metadata and a set of en-tries.
The metadata gives the various identifyingnames and codes for the wordlist e.g., a uniqueidentifier, the ISO 639-3 code, the related Ethno-logue language name3, alternate language names,reference(s), the compilers of the wordlist, etc.
Allforms in the wordlist are expressed as a sequenceof Unicode characters and annotated with appro-priate contextual information.
In cases wherethere is more than one form attached to a concept,we create multiple concept-form mappings.
We donot explicitly model form groups (see section 2) inour RDF at present since the data we are workingwith is not sufficiently detailed for us to need toattach information to any particular form group.Expressing the data encoded in our wordlistdatabase as RDF triples ensures Semantic Webcompatibility and allows our work to build onmore general work that facilitates sharing and in-teroperating on linguistic data in a Semantic Webcontext (Farrar and Lewis, 2007).
An RDF frag-ment describing the wordlist entry in (6) is givenin Figure 3 for illustrative purposes.
In additionto drawing on standard RDF constructs, we alsomake use of descriptive linguistic concepts fromGOLD4 (General Ontology for Linguistic De-scription), which is intended be a sharable OWL3http://ethnologue.com/4http://linguistics-ontology.org/ontology for language documentation and descrip-tion (Farrar and Lewis, 2007).
The key data en-coded by our RDF representation is the counter-part mapping between a particular wordlist con-cept (lego:concept) drawn from our concep-ticon and a form (gold:formUnit) found in agiven wordlist.
(The ?lego?
prefix refers to ourinternal project namespace.
)An important feature of our RDF encoding isthat the counterpart relation does not relate a con-cept directly to a form but rather to a linguis-tic sign (gold:LinguisticSign) whose formfeature contains the relevant specification.
Thiswould allow for additional information about thelexical element specified by the given form (e.g.,part of speech, definition) to be added to the rep-resentation without modification of the model.Our RDF encoding, at present, is inspired by thetraditional understanding of wordlists, building di-rectly on work done by linguists (Haspelmath andTadmor, 2009).
While our use of RDF and anOWL ontology brings the data into a format allow-ing for much greater interoperability than wouldotherwise be possible, in order to achieve maxi-mal integration with current efforts in NLP morecould be done.
For example, we could devisean RDF expression of our model compatible withLMF (Francopoulo et al, 2009) (see section 3).The most difficult aspect of our model to en-code in LMF would appear to be the counterpartrelation since core LMF assumes that meaningswill be expressed primarily as language-specificsenses.
However, there is work in LMF encod-6<rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"xmlns:lego="http://purl.org/linguistics/lego/"xmlns:gold="http://purl.org/linguistics/gold/"><lego:concept rdf:about= "http://www.purl.org/linguistics/lego/concept/106"><lego:hasConceptID>106</lego:hasConceptID><lego:hasConceptLabel>the grandfather</lego:hasConceptLabel><lego:hasSource>LEGO Project Unified Concepticon</lego:hasSource><lego:hasCounterpart><gold:LinguisticSign rdf:about="http://www.purl.org/linguistics/North Asmat Voorhoeve/12"><gold:inLanguage><gold:Language rdf:about="http://www.sil.org/ISO639-3/documentation.asp?id=nks"/></gold:inLanguage><gold:hasForm><gold:formUnit><gold:stringRep>-ak</gold:stringRep></gold:formUnit></gold:hasForm><lego:hasSource>Voorhoeve 1980</lego:hasSource></gold:LinguisticSign></lego:hasCounterpart><lego:hasCounterpart><gold:LinguisticSign rdf:about="http://www.purl.org/linguistics/North Asmat Voorhoeve/13"><gold:inLanguage><gold:Language rdf:about="http://www.sil.org/ISO639-3/documentation.asp?id=nks"/></gold:inLanguage><gold:hasForm><gold:formUnit><gold:stringRep>afak</gold:stringRep></gold:formUnit></gold:hasForm><lego:hasSource>Voorhoeve 1980</lego:hasSource></gold:LinguisticSign></lego:hasCounterpart></lego:concept></rdf:RDF>Figure 3: Wordlist Entry RDF Fragmenting something quite comparable to our notion ofcounterpart, namely a SenseAxis, intended to sup-port interlingual pivots for multilingual resources(Soria et al, 2009).As discussed in section 3, the concept labelsused in traditional wordlists can be understood asa kind of interlingua.
Therefore, it seems thata promising approach for adapting our model toan LMF model would involve making use of theSenseAxes.
Because of this we believe that itwould be relatively straightforward to adapt ourdatabase in a way which would make it even moreaccessible for NLP applications than it is in itspresent form, though we leave this as a task forfuture work.7 EvaluationWe have identified the following dimensionsacross which it seems relevant to evaluate ourwork against the state of the art: (i) the extent towhich it can be applied generally to wordlist data,(ii) how it compares to existing wordlist databases,(iii) how it compares to other work which devel-ops data models intended to serve as targets formigration of legacy linguistic data, and (iv) the ex-tent to which our model can create lexical data thatcan straightforwardly interoperate with other lexi-cal data.
We discuss each of these dimensions ofevaluation in turn.
(i) The RDF/XML model described here hasbeen successfully used to represent the entire core7dataset being used for this project (see section 2).This represents around 2,700 wordlists and half amillion forms, suggesting the model is reasonable,at least as a first attempt.
Further testing will re-quire attempting to incorporate wordlist data fromother sources into our model.
(ii) Wordlists databases have been constructedfor comparative linguistic work for decades.
How-ever, there have not been extensive systematic at-tempts to encode them in interoperable formats tothe best of our knowledge, and certainly not in-volving a dataset of the size explored here.
Theonly comparable project is found in the WorldLoanword Database (Haspelmath and Tadmor,2010) (WOLD) which includes, as a possibility,an RDF/XML export.
This feature of the databaseis not explicitly documented, making a direct com-parison difficult.
An examination of the data pro-duced makes it appear largely similar to the modelproposed here.
The database itself covers manyfewer languages (around 40) but has much moredata for each of its entries.
In any event, we be-lieve our project and WOLD are roughly simi-lar regarding the extent to which the produced re-sources can be used for multiple purposes, thoughit is difficult to examine this in detail at this timein the absence of better documentation of WOLD.
(iii) As discussed in section 3, most work ondesigning data models to facilitate migration oflegacy descriptive data to more modern formatshas used representative data rather than producinga substantial new resource in its own right.
Fur-thermore, while the data models have been gen-eral in nature, the data encoding has often been inparochial XML formats.
By producing a substan-tial resource in a Semantic Web encoding in paral-lel with the data modeling, we believe our resultsexceed most of the comparable work on legacy lin-guistic data, with the exception of ODIN (Xia andLewis, 2009) which has also produced a substan-tial resource.
(iv) Finally, by building our wordlist modelaround the abstract notion of the linguistic sign,and explicitly referring to the concept of signthrough an OWL ontology, we believe we haveproduced a wordlist data model which can producedata which can straightforwardly interoperate withdata from full lexicons since lexicon entries, too,can be modeled as signs, as in Figure 1.Therefore, while our work cannot be straight-forwardly evaluated with quantitative metrics, webelieve that on a qualitative level it can be evalu-ated at or above the state of the art across severalkey dimensions.8 ApplicationsUnlike typical research in NLP, our dataset cov-ers thousands of minority languages that are oth-erwise poorly represented.
Therefore, while ourdata is sparse in many ways, it has a coverage well-beyond what is normally found.Crucially, our data model makes visible the sim-ilarities between a concepticon and an interlingua,thus opening up a data type produced for descrip-tive linguistics for use in NLP contexts.
In partic-ular, we have created a resource that we believecould be exploited for NLP applications wheresimple word-to-word mapping across languages isuseful, as in the PanImages5 search of the Pan-Lex project, which facilitates cross-lingual imagesearching.
Such a database can also be readilyexploited for machine identification of cognatesand recurrent sound correspondences to test algo-rithms for language family reconstruction (Kon-drak et al, 2007; Nerbonne et al, 2007) or to assistin the automatic identification of phonemic sys-tems and, thereby, enhance relevant existing work(Moran and Wright, 2009).
We, therefore, thinkit represents a useful example of using data mod-eling and legacy data conversion to find commonground between descriptive linguistics and NLP.AcknowledgmentsFunding for the work described here was providedby NSF grant BCS-0753321, and the work is beingdone in the context of the larger Lexicon Enhance-ment via the GOLD Ontology project, headed byresearchers at the Institute for Language Informa-tion and Technology at Eastern Michigan Univer-sity.
Partial funding for the collection and cura-tion of the wordlists was provided by the RosettaProject (NSF DUE-0333727), along with the MaxPlanck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology.ReferencesAlison Alvarez, Lori Levin, Robert Frederking, SimonFung, Donna Gates, and Jeff Good.
2006.
TheMILE corpus for less commonly taught languages.In NAACL ?06: Proceedings of the Human Lan-guage Technology Conference of the NAACL, Com-panion Volume, pages 5?8.
ACL.5http://www.panimages.org/8John Bell and Steven Bird.
2000.
A preliminary studyof the structure of lexicon entries.
In Proceedingsfrom the Workshop on Web-Based Language Docu-mentation and Description.
Philadelphia, December12?15, 2000.Emily M. Bender, Dan Flickinger, and Stephan Oepen.2002.
The Grammar Matrix: An open-sourcestarter-kit for the rapid development of cross-linguistically consistent broad-coverage precisiongrammars.
In John Carroll, Nelleke Oostdijk, andRichard Sutcliffe, editors, Proceedings of the Work-shop on Grammar Engineering and Evaluation atthe 19th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 8?14, Taipei, Taiwan.Steven Bird and Gary Simons.
2003.
Seven dimen-sions of portability for language documention anddescription.
Language, 79:557?582.Scott Farrar and William D. Lewis.
2007.
The GOLDCommunity of Practice: An infrastructure for lin-guistic data on the Web.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 41:45?60.Gil Francopoulo, Nuria Bel, Monte George, NicolettaCalzolari, Monica Monachini, Mandy Pet, and Clau-dia Soria.
2009.
Multilingual resources for NLPin the lexical markup framework (LMF).
LanguageResources and Evaluation, 43:57?70.Jeff Good.
2004.
The descriptive grammar as a(meta)database.
In Proceedings of the E-MELDWorkshop on Linguistic Databases and Best Prac-tice.
Detroit, Michigan.Martin Haspelmath and Uri Tadmor.
2009.
The Loan-word Typology Project and the World LoanwordDatabase.
Loanwords in the world?s languages: Acomparative handbook, pages 1?33.
Berlin: DeGruyter.Martina Haspelmath and Uri Tadmor, editors.
2010.World Loanword Database.
Munich: Max PlanckDigital Library.
http://wold.livingsources.org.Nancy Ide, Daniel Greenstein, and Piek Vossen.
1998.Introduction to EuroWordNet.
Computers and theHumanities, 32:73?89.Grzegorz Kondrak, David Beck, and Philip Dilts.2007.
Creating a comparative dictionary ofTotonac-Tepehua.
In Proceedings of Ninth Meetingof the ACL Special Interest Group in ComputationalMorphology and Phonology, pages 134?141.
ACL.Steven Moran and Richard Wright.
2009.
Pho-netics Information Base and Lexicon (PHOIBLE).http://phoible.org.John Nerbonne, T. Mark Ellison, and Grzegorz Kon-drak.
2007.
Computing and historical phonology.In Proceedings of Ninth Meeting of the ACL SpecialInterest Group in Computational Morphology andPhonology, pages 1?5.
ACL.Sergei Nirenburg, Marge McShane, and Steve Beale.2004.
The rationale for building resources expresslyfor NLP.
In 4th International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, Lisbon, Portugal.Sebastian Nordhoff.
2008.
Electronic reference gram-mars for typology: Challenges and solutions.
Lan-guage Documentation & Conservation, 2:296?324.Tom O?Hara, Kavi Mahesh, and Sergei Nirenburg.1998.
Lexical Acquisition with WordNet and theMikrokosmos Ontology.
In Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on the Use of WordNet in NLP, pages 94?101.Alexis Palmer and Katrin Erk.
2007.
IGT-XML: AnXML format for interlinearized glossed text.
InProceedings of the Linguistic Annotation Workshop,pages 176?183.
ACL.Alexis Palmer, Taesun Moon, and Jason Baldridge.2009.
Evaluating automation strategies in languagedocumentation.
In Proceedings of the NAACL HLT2009 Workshop on Active Learning for Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 36?44.
ACL.Francesco Ronzano, Maurizio Tesconi, Salvatore Min-utoli, Andrea Marchetti.
2010.
Collaborative man-agement of KYOTO Multilingual Knowledge Base:The Wikyoto Knowledge Editor.
In Proceedingsof the 5th International Conference of the GlobalWordNet Association (GWC-2010).
Mumbai, India.Gary Simons, Brian Fitzsimons, Terence Langendoen,William Lewis, Scott Farrar, Alexis Lanham, RubyBasham, and Hector Gonzalez.
2004.
The descrip-tive grammar as a (meta)database.
In Proceedingsof the E-MELD Workshop on Linguistic Databasesand Best Practice.
Detroit, Michigan.Claudia Soria, Monica Monachini, and Piek Vossen.2009.
Wordnet-LMF: Fleshing out a Standard-ized Format for Wordnet Interoperability.
In Inter-national Workshop on Intercultural Collaboration(IWIC), pages 139?146.
ACM.Tokunaga Takenobu, Nicoletta Calzolari, Chu-RenHuang, Laurent Prevot, Virach Sornlertlamvanich,Monica Monachini, Xia YingJu, Shirai Kiyoaki,Thatsanee Charoenporn, Claudia Soria, and Hao,Yu.
2006.
Infrastructure for standardization ofAsian language resources In Proceedings of theCOLING/ACL Main Conference Poster Sessions,pages 827?834.
ACL.Piek Vossen.
2004.
EuroWordNet: A multilin-gual database of autonomous and language-specificwordnets connected via an Inter-Lingual-Index.
In-ternational Journal of Lexicography, 17:161?173.Fei Xia and William D. Lewis.
2009.
Applying NLPtechnologies to the collection and enrichment of lan-guage data on the Web to aid linguistic research.
InLaTeCH-SHELT&R ?09: Proceedings of the EACL2009 Workshop on Language Technology and Re-sources for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Hu-manities, and Education, pages 51?59.
ACL.9
