Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 274?281,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsDepends on What the French SaySpoken Corpus Annotation With and Beyond Syntactic FunctionsJos?
DeulofeuDELIC, Universit?
de ProvenceAix, France.jose.deulofeu@up.univ-mrs.frLucie Duffort, Kim GerdesLPP, Sorbonne NouvelleParis, Francelucieduffort@hotmail.comkim@gerdes.frSylvain KahaneModyco, Universit?
Paris OuestNanterre, Francesylvain@kahane.frPaola PietrandreaUniversit?
Roma TRE / Lattice, ENSRome, Italy and Paris, Francepietrand@uniroma3.itAbstractWe present a syntactic annotation scheme forspoken French that is currently used in theRhapsodie project.
This annotation is depend-ency-based and includes coordination and dis-fluency as analogously encoded types of para-digmatic phenomena.
Furthermore, we attempta thorough definition of the discourse units re-quired by the systematic annotation of otherphenomena beyond usual sentence boundaries,which are typical for spoken language.
Thisincludes so called ?macrosyntactic?
phenom-ena such as dislocation, parataxis, insertions,grafts, and epexegesis.1 IntroductionThis communication presents the syntactic anno-tation scheme currently being developed forRhapsodie a project funded by the French Na-tional Research Agency (ANR) which aims tostudy the syntax-prosody interface in spokenFrench.
Rhapsodie aims to elaborate a freely dis-tributed corpus, classified into different discoursegenres, and doted with prosodic and syntacticannotations elaborated for the study of the rela-tionship of prosody, syntax, and informationstructure in discourse.Contrary to what is available in the anglo-saxon world, there is no freely distributed andsyntactically annotated corpus of spoken Frenchtoday.
This is what our project aims to provide.The only tree-bank for French, that we knowof, is the Paris 7 Corpus (Abeill?
et al 2003).This is a corpus of newspaper texts, annotatedmainly in Penn Tree Bank style and partiallywith dependency annotations, which is distrib-uted only under highly restrictive conditions.Some annotated corpora of spoken Frenchnevertheless exist: The CID (Corpus of Interac-tional Data) (Bertrand et al 2009) uses an anno-tation with typed chunks, and the VALIBEL cor-pus (Dister et al 2008 ; Degand et Simon 2009)consists of delimiting maximal syntactic units.This notion, allowing segmentation of the text, isessential for any syntactic annotation, a conceptwe will come back to in section 2.
Neither ofthese corpora is distributed freely and nonecomes close to the precision and variety of spo-ken language corpora existing for other lan-guages like English or Dutch.There is, however, an important tradition ofdescription of the spoken French language, nota-bly at the University of Provence in Aix, where ateam led by Claire Blanche-Benveniste coinedthe two level distinction of ?micro-syntax?
and?macro-syntax?
and proposed a parallel analysisof paradigmatic phenomena ranging from coor-dinations to disfluencies (Blanche-Benveniste1990, Berrendonner 1990, Bilger et al 1997,Gu?not 2006, Gerdes & Kahane 2009).Rhapsodie?s innovation stems from a formal-ization and generalization of this tradition.
Theparallel annotation of prosody and syntax natu-rally leads to a syntactic analysis of the text as awhole, including hesitations and disfluencies,whereas other approaches tend to erase thesephenomena in order to obtain standard sentencessimilar to written language where syntactic anno-tation is well-established.
Examples of this latterapproach include main reference corpora, forexample the English Switchboard corpus(http://groups.inf.ed.ac.uk/switchboard), or theCGN (Dutch Spoken Corpus,http://lands.let.ru.nl/cgn).
These types of annota-tion also commonly exclude phenomena such ascolon effects, grafts, and associated illocutionary274units, because of their limited conception of sen-tence boundaries and a focus on written phenom-ena.
The Rhapsodie syntactic analysis schemetends to include all words of the corpus and findsit necessary to take account of all the above phe-nomena because they are, we believe, intrinsi-cally syntactic.The original English examples in this paperstem from the Micase corpus (Simpson-Vlach &Leicher 2006), in particular from the segmentHonors Advising (http://quod.lib.umich.edu/m/micase) and from interviews that we collectedourselves (ELUI; English Language Use Inter-views, Duffort in preparation).
Some phenomenaare specific to French and we use original exam-ples from the Rhapsodie corpus; some other ex-amples, designated as "constructed examples",are simplified constructions of phenomena weonly encountered in more complex combinations.2 AnnotationIn the analysis of written text, the units of anno-tation are usually taken to be ?graphical?
sen-tences, i.e.
the words between two periods, a nei-ther explicit nor homogenous notion that has lit-tle or no linguistic relevance.
Spoken corpus an-notation, on the contrary, has to simultaneouslydefine dependency units and the dependency an-notation that we impose on these units.
Thesetwo questions are not independent: The morephenomena we include in the syntactic analysis,the longer the units will become.Our first choice concerns syntactic annotation:Functional dependency annotation has proven tobe a more challenging task than phrase structureannotation but seems to be more versatile forvarious languages and more promising as an in-termediate syntactic structure between the or-dered words and semantics.
All dependencybased corpora have to choose a set of functionsto be used in annotation.
This choice is oftenguided by practical considerations (existingphrase structure annotation, parsers, semanticneeds, etc.)
but even though few have tried togive a formal and general definition of syntacticfunctions (Mel'cuk & Pertsov 1987), each choiceof a set of functions presumes that two elements(subtrees) that share the same function havesomething in common: Usually this is thought tobe- the exchangeability of the two elements(at a certain degree of abstraction, exclud-ing, for example, agreement features)- the coordinability of the two elementsFor example, to decide whether gone and thebike have the same function in he has gone andhe has a bike, it is not sufficient that the twoelements can be interchanged; we also need co-ordinability which in this case is ungrammatical.We will therefore stipulate the existence of twodifferent functions.1(1) *He has gone and a bike.In other words, a coordination is an orthogonalconstruction to a head-daughter relation.
Thisalso shows in the difficulty in dependency aswell as phrase structure approaches to accountfor coordination.
The near-symmetry of coordi-nations violates basic assumptions of X-bar the-ory and head-daughter relationships.
Contrary toother dependency analyses like the Prague De-pendency Treebank (ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt) or theAlpino Dependency Treebank (www.let.rug.nl/vannoord/trees), our approach does not includecoordinations in our syntactic functions, butthese, as well as other paradigmatic phenomena,are encoded in what we call ?piles?2 (see section2.3).2.1 Dependency Units and IllocutionaryUnitsWe don?t consider that syntax can be reduced todependency, and we have to define the delimita-tion of functional relations as well as the delimi-tation of so called ?macro-syntactic?
phenomenasuch as dislocation and colon effect that go be-yond dependency.
Our complete annotationtherefore includes units joined by dependency,paradigmatic sub-units, and higher-level rela-tions that are still syntactic and not purely discur-sive.
We propose a well defined distinction be-tween syntax based segmentation, called ?de-pendency units?
(DU), and pragmatically basedsegmentation, called ?illocutionary units?
(IU).Applying a bottom-up approach, we first lookfor rectional (head-daughter) relations, whichgives us the DUs: Each DU is a unit, constructedaround a syntactic head that itself has no gover-nor.
We define a rectional relation using the1Note that this choice is less clear in many cases,such as for example for the distinction between pas-sives and predicative functions, or between full andlight verbs.2Of course this can be represented formally equiva-lently as a specific type of dependency, but we believethat the distinction is linguistically important and lim-iting the notion of dependency to true head-daughterrelations makes the notion of dependency more con-sistent.275common criteria: i.e.
constraints in terms of cat-egory, morphological features, and restructura-tion possibilities (commutation with a pronoun,diatheses, clefting).In addition to these syntactic units, we definethe IUs as unities that demonstrate a discursiveautonomy, in other words, that have their ownillocutionary force.
These terms may seem sur-prising in formal syntax, but we believe that theyare unavoidable for our task.
This definition as-sents to traditional grammarians?
intuition of sen-tences holding a ?complete meaning?
and Creis-sels?
definition of ?sentence?
(2004) as a pro-positional content realizing an enunciation.Both units, DUs and IUs are relatively inde-pendent and complementary and they have theirown well-formedness conditions.
In general, anIU is a combination of several DUs, but we willshow examples ranging from simple interjectionsto complex embedded DUs.
In some cases a rec-tional relation, and thus a DU can go beyond thelimits of an IU.This opposition of DU and IU reflectsBlanche-Benveniste?s opposition between micro-syntax and macrosyntax (1990): A DU is themaximal microsyntactic unit; an IU constitutesthe maximal unit of macrosyntax.2.2 Microsyntax and Dependency UnitsIn this paper, we will not elaborate further on thedependency annotation itself.
We have followedapproaches taken by numerous other corporasuch as the Prague Dependency Treebank or theAlpino Dependency Treebank (www.let.rug.nl/vannoord/trees/).Let us consider the following utterance, typi-cal for spoken French:(2) moi ma m?re le salon c?est de la moquetteme my mother the living room it's carpet'My mother's living room is carpeted'In (2), three elements?moi, literally 'me', mam?re 'my mother', le salon 'the living room'?areparatactically juxtaposed to a predicative unit,c'est de la moquette 'it is carpet'.
These elementsare not syntactically dependent on any element inthe predicative unit.
We treat them as separateDUs.
We will illustrate in 2.4 the treatment wepropose for the relation holding between theseDUs.2.3 PilesBeside dependency, we acknowledge the exis-tence of a separate mechanism of syntactic cohe-sion within DUs: Following Gerdes & Kahane(2009), we call the syntactic relation betweenunits occupying the same structural positionwithin a DU, or, in other words, holding thesame position in a dependency tree, a ?pile?.
Co-ordination is a typical case of piling:(3) our two languages are {English | ^andFrench} (ELUI)We consider that we also have a pile of elementsoccupying the same structural position in refor-mulations (4), disfluencies (5) or corrections (6):(4)  did a humanoid species { spring up | or ex-ist } in various places {in the world | {notjust in Africa | ^but also in Asia | ^andmaybe also in southern Europe }} // (Mi-case)(5)  { I~ | in~ | including } kind of a general ideaof these "uh" (ELUI)(6)  {I | I} have lots of other interests {like "um" |that are a little bit more like} {paleontology| ^or astronomy | ^or international religion |^or "uh" not religion | international relations| ^so those things {I wanna & | I think I?mgonna concentrate more on} // (Micase)Our desire to treat coordinations, reformulationsand disfluencies as phenomena showing syntac-tic similarity resides in the fact that, as shown byBlanche-Benveniste (1990) among others, it isnot always easy to distinguish between disflu-ency, reformulation and coordination: As an ex-ample, consider (7a), more or less interpreted inthe same way as examples (7b,c) which are, re-spectively, a reformulation and a coordination:(7) a. she is { a linguist | maybe a technician }b. she is { a linguist | "um" a technician }c. she is { a linguist | ^or a technician }(constructed example)In all cases of piles, we use the same notation:the segments that occupy the same syntactic po-sition are put between curly brackets { } and theyare separated by vertical pipes |.
Pipes thereforeseparate what we call pile layers.
These layersmay be introduced by pile markers, usually aconjunction.
If a pile marker does not play a syn-tactic role, it is preceded by a caret ^.Dependencies and piles allow for a completedescription of the syntactic cohesion of a DU.
In(7), for example, the first layer realizes the posi-tion of attribute within the dependency structure.The syntagmatic relation between the two layersentails a paradigmatic relation between linguistand computational scientist.
The second layerinherits the structural (attribute) position from276the paradigmatic relation within the dependencystructure.
It should also be noticed that, with theexception of abandoned layers (noted &), layerscan be seen as alternatives.
It is possible to walkthese structures by choosing one layer of eachpile, extracting as many utterances as there arepaths.
Each of these utterances has a completedependency structure merely containing govern-ment and modification relations, for example,(7a) can be reduced to the two DUs in (8), whichwill constitute the input for the parsing process:(8)  a. she is a linguistb.
she is maybe a computational linguistNote that maybe, though it acts as a pile marker,also plays a syntactic role in the context of thepile, contrarily to a conjunction (*she is or acomputational scientist), the latter being markedwith the caret to make this distinction.2.4 Macrosyntax and Illocutionary UnitsAn Illocutionary Unit (IU) is any portion ofdiscourse encoding a unique illocutionary act:assertions, questions, and commands (see Ben-veniste 1966, Searle 1976).
An IU expresses aspeech act that can be made explicit by introduc-ing an implicit performative act such as "I say","I ask", "I order".
A test for detecting the Illocu-tionary Units that make up a discourse consistsof the introduction of such performative seg-ments (see below).
A segmentation in IUs is par-ticularly important for the study of the connec-tion of prosody and syntax, which is the goal ofRhapsodie, because these units are prosodicallymarked (Blanche-Benveniste 1997, Cresti 2000).We use the symbol // to segment the text in IUs(but see also the symbols //+ in section 3).It should be noted that there exist IUs that arenot made up of Verbal Dependency Units.
Seeexamples (9a,b):(9) a. SPK1: we've heard all of the "you know"big "uh" meteors coming from outer space//     SPK2: right // (Micase)b.
^and then < boom //(constructed example)We extend the notion of IU to a unit whose statusin terms of illocutionary acts, let alne in termsof propositional structures, may be unclear, butwhich can form a "complete message": interjec-tions, phatics, feed back particles like voil?
?that?s it?, quoi ?what?, h?las!, ?alas?, tant pis!
?oh well?.
See for instance in the famous criticalpunt against French writer Corneille (10a) thatcould be annotated as in (10b).
(10) a. Apr?s l'Ag?silas, h?las !
Apr?s l'Attila,hol?
!
(Nicolas Boileau 1828)'After Ag?silas, alas!
After Attila, nomore!'b.
apr?s l'Ag?silas < h?las // apr?s l'Attila <hol?
//In a context such as (11), a single IU is made upof two verbal DUs: I got up in the morning and Iwas with clients.
(11) I got up in the morning < I was with clients// I ate at noon < I was with clients // I wentto bed at night < I was with clients //(translation, Rhapsodie)The relation between the two verbal DUs in (11)cannot be described in terms of microsyntacticdependency.
Indeed, I got up in the morning isnot dependent on the verbal construction of thefollowing DU.
Nevertheless, the existence of amacrosyntactic relation can be acknowledged.The first DU in (11), I got up in the morning, isnot as autonomous from an illocutionary point ofview: it cannot constitute a self standing mes-sage.
In (11) it is not asserted that "I got up in themorning".
And (11) can be paraphrased by (12a)but not by (12b):(12) a. it is said that I got up in the morning I waswith the clientsb.
# it is said that I got up in the morningand that I was with the clients.The illocutionary force of (11) is encoded by theDU I was with clients, which can be interpretedas an assertion even if uttered in isolation.
Whe-reas the unit I got up in the morning does nothave in this context any illocutionary interpreta-tion.
The subsegment of an IU supporting theillocutionary force of the IU is called the nu-cleus.
It can be autonomized.
The nucleus andthe others segments forming the IU are called theIllocutionary Components (ICs).
The ICs are al-ways microsyntactic units and are generallyDUs.
The nucleus is the unit that is affected by anegation or an interrogation having scope on theIU.
See for example the tests in (13) and (14):(13) A: I got up in the morning I was with clientsB: this is not true (?
It is not true that youwere with clients, # It is not true that yougot up in the morning)(14) A: I got up in the morning I was with clientsB: Is that true?
(?
Is that true that you werewith clients)(# Is that true that you got up in the morn-ing)277ICs preceding and following the nucleus arecalled pre-nuclear units (Pre-N) and post-nuclearunits (Post-N).
We use the symbol < to mark thePre-N and the > to mark the post-N.
These tagscan be considered as explicit counterparts ofcommas in writing.
(15) il y a plein de trucs < tu les vois apr?s > enfait > les d?fauts (Rhapsodie)there are plenty of things < you see themlater > actually > the faultsIt is possible that, due to a particular communica-tive structure, the illocutionary force is carriedonly by a part of a DU and that the nucleus formsa DU with another IC:(16) to my mother <+ I don't speak anymore(constructed example)(17) two euros >+ it costs(translation, Blanche-Benveniste 1990)The addition of the symbol + indicates that theIC on one and the other side are parts of the sameUR.3 More cases of irregularity in the inter-face between microsyntactic and mac-rosyntactic unitsWe will now present a number of structures thatwere particularly problematic for the syntacticannotation of the Rhapsodie corpus and that il-lustrate the mismatch between DU and IUboundaries well.3.1 DU beyond the IUUp to now, we have seen a few examples ofsegmentation of an IU into DUs.
We will nowshow that there are cases, traditionally namedepexegesis, where we can consider that it is infact the DU which is segmented into multiple IU.Let us consider these two examples:(18)  SPK1: he has arrivedSPK2: last night (constructed example)(19) She speaks French.
And very well!
(constructed example)In these two examples, there are two illocu-tionary acts: in (18) this is evident as there aretwo speakers uttering two different assertions.
In(19), there are two assertions.
In both cases, thesecond illocutionary act is not (micro) syntacti-cally autonomous.
The second IU directly fol-lows the first IU and integrates and completes itssyntactic structure, being in a dependency rela-tion with the head of the first IU (the verb ar-rived in (18), the verb speaks in (19)).
We cantherefore paraphrase the preceding examplesthusly:(20)  SPK1: he has arrivedSPK2: he has arrived last night(21) She speaks French and (what is more) shespeaks French very well.Rather than postulating an ellipsis in the secondsegment (as suggested by Culicover & Jackend-off 2005, among others) we analyze the two IUsas belonging to the same DU.
This choice natu-rally descends from the modular approach weadopted, which distinguishes between illocution-ary and syntactic relations.
As in the case of adependency relation crossing the IC border, weadd a + symbol to indicate that the illocutionaryfrontier is not a limit to the DU.In addition to dependency, piling can alsocross IU frontiers, as in (22):(22)   SPK1: How often do you go {there |} //+SPK2: {| to the States} // (ELUI)In (22) the argument position of the verb go isrealized twice: through the segment there utteredby the first speaker and through the segment tothe states uttered as a separate IU by the secondspeaker.
We use the notation {X|}?
{|Y} whenthe pile between X and Y is interrupted by a syn-tactic frontier, in this case an IU frontier, or adiscontinuity.It should be noted that the piling in (22) doesnot only cross an IU frontier but it crosses aspeech turn frontier as well, as it is realized bytwo different speakers.
We do not consider thespeech turn as a limit for the extension of syntac-tic phenomena, rather we assume that there canbe co-construction of semantic content and syn-tactic structures in dialogues3.2 Inserted IUsAn IU can be inserted into another IU.
This iswhat happens for example in the case of inser-tions.
(23) a. I woke up (you're going to laugh //) in themorning at five o'clock // (constructed ex-ample)b.
{ I studied | (sorry//) I studied in college |I studied } international relations // (ELUI)We propose two equivalent ways to note this,either by placing the inserted utterance betweenparentheses as in (23) or by using the symbol #to indicate that the utterance is continued later atthe following occurrence of #:278(24) a. I woke up #// you're going to laugh //# inthe morning at five o'clock //(constructed example)These two notations are strict equivalents __"(" ="#//" and ")" = "//#"__, but the symbol # also al-lows the encoding of more complex cases suchas the following example, where SPK1 is inter-rupted three times by SPK2.
This does not keepSPK1 from pursuing a relatively complex utter-ance, all the while interacting with SPK2 throughyeahs which punctuate SPK2's interventions.
Thesequence of //#+ tags indicates that the IU iscompleted (//), but that the DU continues later on(#+):(25) SPK1: but but otherwise uh well & // in anycase the fundamental research it it remainsfree //#+SPK2: yeah yeah //SPK1: #luckily //#+SPK2 so yeah // in 2009 //SPK1: yeah //SPK2 : we'll have to see later //SPK1: yeah // # the applied research < less// ^but the fundamental research < yeah //(translation, Rhapsodie)3.3 Embedded IUsDirect discourse presents a particular difficultydue to the embedding of illocutionary acts.
Con-sider the following example:(26)  he said [ go away > poor fool // ] //(translation, radio)The reported speech in (26), annotated with thesymbols [ ], has its own illocutionary force, itcan be regarded therefore as an autonomous IU.Regardless, the preceding segment (he said) doesnot form an autonomous illocutionary act or acomplete DU.
We treat such a structure as anembedded IU.
The reported speech is an IU em-bedded in the IU made up of the whole utterancehe said go away poor fool.Another phenomenon that we treat as the em-bedding of IUs is the graft.
We define a graft asthe filling of a syntactic position with a segmentbelonging to an unexpected category (Deulofeu,1999).
(27) a. you don't have an agenda with [one day Ido this // one day I do that //] (translation,Deulofeu 1999)b. you follow the tram line which passestowards the [I think it's an old firehouse //]// (translation, Rhapsodie)c. I could like take and see {if I & | if it wasworth it that I should go into "you know"more depth | ^or if that was just sort of like[ okay {I l- | I like it} // ^but I don't wannalike study that // ^so I don't know //] } //(Micase)d. we had criticized the newspaper [I think itwas the Provencal #] we had criticized itin relation to (# or the Meridional //) in re-lation to the death of [what was his name //not Coluche // the other guy //] //(translation, Blanche-Benveniste 1990)This phenomenon can be regarded as a rupture ofsub-categorization.
The grafted segment usuallyhas its own illocutionary force, being in mostcases a unit commenting on the lexical choicethat should have been done to respect the sub-categorization.
In a graft, as well as in reportedspeech, an IU occupies a governed position in-side a DU.3.4 Associated IUsA number of  discourse particles (such as "right","of course" in English, "quoi", "bon" in French)and parentheticals units (such as "I think", "Iguess", "you know" in English, "je crois", "tuvois" in French) are endowed with an illocution-ary force.
However, these elements do not servethe purpose of modifying the common groundbetween speakers.
They merely have a functionof modal modification or interactional regulation.We call these units "associated units", we treatthem as non autonomous illocutionary compo-nents and we annotate them between quotationmarks " ".
(28) it's a really "you know" open field "youknow" like all that stuff // (Micase)(29) he is coming "I guess" // (constructed)(30) "I mean" English wasn't that helpful itself //(ELUI)4  Levels of annotationOur annotation strategy rests on the fact thatrelatively good tools for automatic analysis ofFrench written texts are currently in existence(Bourigault et al 2005, De la Clergerie 2005,Boulier & Sagot 2005).
Adapting these tools tospoken French would constitute a project in andof itself, one much more ambitious than our an-notation project (even though we believe thatRhapsodie is an essential step towards the devel-opment of parsers for spoken language, and thatone of the final uses of Rhapsodie will be as a279contribution to the training and development ofthese parsers).
In other words, we want to usethese tools developed for written text withoutmodifying them substantially.
In order to do this,we realize a pre-treatment of transcribed text "byhand": We manually annotate every phenomenontypical of the syntax of speech.
The result is apre-treated text that parsers can analyze as writ-ten text with minimal error.
The segmentationinto IUs and DUs described in the previous sec-tions aims at providing such a pre-treatment.
Aswe hope we have shown, our pre-treatment has atheoretical and practical value, and could consti-tute a satisfying analysis of speech on its own.Regardless, we would like to present all levels ofour treatment, as this will allow a greater under-standing of the choices that have been made (forexample the analysis of piles during pre-treatment).Our annotation procedure is organized intoseveral steps which alternate regularly betweenautomatic and manual treatment.Level 1: Raw transcription (i.e.
without syntacticenrichment) - This consists of orthographic tran-scription which includes speech overlap, trun-cated morphemes, etc.Level 2: Simple automatic pre-treatment - Anno-tation of trivial "disfluencies" (such as word re-petition) and identification of potential associ-ated IUs (um, uh... but also like, you know...).This automatic step is very rough and is to becorrected at level 3.Level 3: Manual syntactic segmentation - This isthe annotation presented in the previous sectionsof this paper, indicating DUs, IUs, ICs, piles, etc.This level is obtained manually starting at level2.
The general idea is that it simultaneously con-stitutes:- A coding of everything that we know weare not able to automatically calculate,and which would cause problems forparsers (originally programmed for writ-ten text),- A coding which is satisfactory in itselfand permits a preliminary study of thesyntax-prosody interface.A tool has been developed for checking the well-formedness of this level of annotation.Level 4: Parser entry - Existing parsers forFrench have not been programmed to processsimple transcriptions of speech, nor have theybeen tuned to treat the markup that we have in-troduced at level 3.
However, these tags allow usto automatically segment the text and furnish theparser with sections it is capable of analyzing.The following example will illustrate this point.
(31)  are you thinking {of other communicat~ |"uh" of other functions}(constructed example)would give us to two segments:(32) a. are you thinking of other communicat~b.
are you thinking of other functions.Certain fragments of text are therefore duplicatedand analyzed multiple times.
These analyses, ifidentical, are automatically fused in the ulteriorlevels.
If they differ, a manual treatment is nec-essary.
Another strategy consists of not unpilingbut rather perceiving an utterance including apile as a Directed Acrylic Graph (DAG), that isto say a graph in which the arcs are labeled bywords of the text, and which integrate all possi-ble paths in a pile structure.
A parser like SxLFG(Boulier and Sagot 2005) can manage a DAGentry, but for the moment it is parameterized tochoose the best path in the DAG and not to ana-lyze the entire DAG.Level 5: Parser output - Parsers provide us with asyntactic analysis in the form of a dependencytree.
We now have two things left to do: 1) au-tomatically translate these analyses so that theycorrespond exactly to the desired labels (this ismainly a renaming process of functional labels);2) apply syntactic annotations computed for theunfolded segments to the original texts (thosefrom level 3), while fusing duplicated syntacticannotations.Level 6: Dependency analysis - This consists oflevel 5 after automatic reinsertion of analyzedsections and manual correction.
The last level isa manual correction of level 5, this is absolutelynecessary as the parsers still make many mis-takes (we estimate that about 30% of dependen-cies will have to be corrected) and do not use oursame labels.
The encoding of level 6 is thereforea complete syntactic analysis of text, which in-cludes microsyntax (functional dependencies) aswell as macrosyntax.ConclusionThe ongoing process of annotating transcriptionsof spoken French with syntactic functions hasrevealed the necessity of a well-defined text seg-mentation separated into illocutionary and de-pendency units.
This process is an interestingchallenge in its own right as it allows, for thetime being, only very limited automated steps,280and can be seen as a necessary pre-treatment be-fore the parsing process, relying mainly on toolstuned to work on written data.
Linguistically,contrary to the conventional ad-hoc punctuationof written text, our segmentation can be seen as asystematic punctuation process relying on repro-ducible criteria allowing for a distribution of thisprocess to trained annotators.
Moreover, the no-tion of paradigmatic piles naturally completes theshort-comings of head-descriptions in coordina-tions and other paradigmatic phenomena.If we want to share tools and resources acrosslanguages and theoretical models, it is necessarythat annotation norms develop in the field of syn-tactic annotation of spoken texts, in other words,we need some kind of language-independentpunctuation scheme reflecting syntactic andpragmatic segmentation of the text.
This is aprocess that is well on its way for written text.Our work on French and English shows that ourannotation scheme proposes criteria that can beapplied to different languages while yielding in-teresting results.
We hope this to be a contribu-tion to the development of unified annotationmethods in dependency annotation of spoken textand thus to a deeper understanding of functionalsyntax as a whole.ReferencesAbeill?, A., L. Cl?ment, F. Toussenel.
2003.
Buildinga Treebank for French.
A. Abeill?
(ed) Treebanks.Kluwer, Dordrecht.Benveniste, E. 1966.
Probl?mes de linguistique g?n?-rale, Gallimard, ParisBerrendonner, A.
1990.
?Pour une macro-syntaxe?.Travaux de linguistique 21: 25-31.Bertrand, R., P. Blache, R. Espesser, G.
Ferr?, C.Meunier, B. Priego-Valverde, S. Rauzy.
2009.
LeCID - Corpus of Interactional Data - Annotation etexploitation multimodale de parole conversation-nelle.
Traitement Automatique des Langues, 49(3):1-30.Bilger M., Blasco, M., Cappeau, P., Sabio, F. & Sa-velli, M.-J.
1997.
Transcription del'oral et interpr?tation: illustration de quelques dif-ficult?s.
Recherches sur le fran?ais parl?
14: 55-85.Blanche-Benveniste, C., M. Bilger, C. Rouget, K. vanden Eynde.
1990.
Le Fran?ais parl?.
?tudes gram-maticales.
Paris, CNRS ?ditions.Blanche-Benveniste, C. 1997.
Approches de la langueparl?e en fran?ais, Ophrys, Paris.Boullier, P. et B. Sagot.
2005.
Analyse syntaxiqueprofonde ?
grande ?chelle: SxLfg.
Traitement Au-tomatique des Langues, 46(2):65-89.Bourigault D., Fabre C., Fr?rot C., Jacques M.-P. &Ozdowska S. 2005.
Syntex, analyseur syntaxiquede corpus, in Actes des 12?mes journ?es sur leTraitement Automatique des Langues Naturelles,Dourdan, FranceCreissels D. 2004.
Cours de syntaxe g?n?rale.
Chapi-tre 1, http://lesla.univ-lyon2.fr/sites/lesla/IMG/pdf/doc-346.pdfCulicover P., R. Jackendoff 2005.
Simpler Syntax.Oxford: Oxford University PressCresti, E. 2000.
Corpus di italiano parlato.
Accade-mia della Crusca, Florence.De la Clergerie, E. 2005.
DyALog: a tabular logicprogramming based environment for NLP.
Pro-ceedings of 2nd International Workshop on Con-straint Solving and Language Processing, Barce-lona, Spain.Degand, L., Simon, A. C. 2009.
On identifying basicdiscourse units in speech: theoretical and empiricalissues.
Discours 4 (http://discours.revues.org/in-dex.html)Deulofeu, J.
1999.
Recherches sur les formes de lapr?dication dans les ?nonc?s assertifs en fran?aiscontemporain (le cas des ?nonc?s introduits par lemorph?me que).
Th?se d?
?tat, Universit?
Paris 3.Dister, A., Degand, L., Simon, A. C. 2008.
Approchessyntaxiques en fran?ais parl?
: vers la structurationen unit?s minimales du discours.
Proceedings ofthe 27th Conference on Lexis and Grammar,L?Aquila, 10-13 September 2008, 27-34.Gerdes, K., Kahane, S. 2009.
Speaking in Piles.
Para-digmatic Annotation of a Spoken French Corpus.Proceedings of the fifth Corpus Linguistics Confer-ence, Liverpool.Gu?not M.-L. 2006.
La coordination consid?r?ecomme un entassement paradigmatique: descrip-tion, formalisation et int?gration, Proceedings ofTALN, Leuven, Belgique, 178-187.Mel'cuk, I., Pertsov, N. 1987.
Surface Syntax of Eng-lish.
A Formal Model within the Meaning-TextFramework, Benjamins, Amsterdam.Searle, J. R. 1976.
A classification of illocutionaryacts.
Language in Society 5:1, 1-23.Simpson-Vlach, R., & Leicher, S. 2006.
The MICASEhandbook, The University of Michigan Press, AnnArbor.281
