Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Young Investigators Workshop on Computational Approaches to Languages of the Americas,pages 32?39, Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsHuman Language Technology for Text-based Analysis of PsychotherapySessions in the Spanish LanguageHoracio Saggion?, Elena Stein-Sparvieri?
, David Maldavsky?
, Sandra Szasz?
?DTIC - Universitat Pompeu FabraCalle Tanger 122-140, Poble NouBarcelona - SpainH.Saggion@dcs.shef.ac.uk?IAEPCS - Universidad de Ciencias Sociales y EmpresarialesParaguay 1401, PB, Bs.
As.
Argentinaestein@solutiion.com.ar;dmaldavsky@elsitio.net?University of Sheffield - Department of Computer Sciences211 Portobello Street - Sheffield - UKS.Szasz@sheffield.ac.ukAbstractWe present work in progress in the applicationof Natural Language Processing (NLP) tech-nology to the analysis of textual transcriptionsof psychotherapy sessions in the Spanish Lan-guage.
We are developing a set of NLP toolsas well as adapting an existing dictionary forthe analysis of interviews framed on a psycho-analytic theory.
We investigate the applica-tion of NLP techniques, including dictionary-based interpretation, and speech act identifica-tion and classification for the (semi) automaticidentification in text of a set of psychoanalyt-ical variables.
The objective of the work is toprovide a set of tools and resources to assisttherapist during discourse analysis.1 IntroductionComputer-based textual analysis in psychology isnot new; in psychotherapy, electronic dictionariesand other lexical resources are widely used to anal-yse both therapist?s and patient?s discourses pro-duced during psychotherapy sessions.
In this pa-per we present work in progress in the applica-tion of Natural Language Processing (NLP) tech-nology to the analysis of psychotherapy sessions inthe Spanish Language.
Based on a psychoanalytictheory, we are developing a set of NLP tools aswell as adapting an existing dictionary for the anal-ysis of interviews.
We investigate the applicationof NLP techniques, including dictionary-based in-terpretation, and speech act identification and clas-sification for the automatic analysis of spoken tran-scriptions in Spanish of psychoanalysis sessions be-tween therapists and patients.
In Figure 1 we showa fragment of a manually transcribed interview inSpanish (and its translation to English) from our de-velopment corpus.The automatic analysis of the sessions, which isused as a tool for assessment and interpretation ofthe transcribed psychotherapy sessions is based ona theory developed by Liberman and extended byMaldavsky (Liberman and Maldavsky, 1975) andframed on Freudian theory (Freud, 1925).
The au-tomatic tools to be presented here aim at recogniz-ing a subset of Freudian drives manifested in bothpatient?s and therapist?s discourse.The objective of the analysis is not to provide afull automated solution to discourse interpretationin this area, but a set of tools and resources to as-sist therapists during discourse analysis.
Althoughwork in text-based interpretation in psychology isnot new, researchers in our project have identifiedlimitations in current practices due to the fact thatcurrent text-based systems do not tackle ambiguityproblems at lexical, syntactic, or semantic levels:for example systems that consider out-of-context su-perficial forms would are unable to distinguish be-tween different used of the same lexical item (?para?as a preposition vs. ?para?
as a form of the verb?parar?
(to stop); ?rio?
as a common noun vs. ?rio?as a contextual clue for the identification of a geo-graphical name; etc.).
The use of advanced naturallanguage processing techniques could help produce32Transcribed Session (Spanish/English Version)T: ?con que te cortaste?
(T: What did you cutyourself with?
)L: con un vidrio que encontre?
en el patio (L: Witha glass I found in the patio.
)T: ?donde lo ten??as?
(T: Where did you have it?
)L: en el locker, en la puertita del locker, y despue?slo puse en la jabonera cuando baje a ban?arme (L:In the locker, in the locker?s small door, and thenI put it in the soap box when I went down to havea bath.
)T: o sea, ya ten?
?as un vidrio escondido (T: so, youalready had the glass hidden.
)L: s??
?, ayer lo encontre?
(L: Yes, I found it yester-day.
)T: ?ayer a la tarde?
(T: Yesterday afternoon?
)L: s?
?, s?
?, de ayer a la tarde (L: Yes, yes, yesterdayafternoon.
)Figure 1: Transcription of a small fragment of a therapy session in Spanish and its translation to English.
T indicatestherapist and L indicates patient.better analysis of the input material and thereforebe used for a better diagnosis and follow-up.
It isworth mentioning that full interpretation of therapysessions is not only based on textual analysis, butalso in other elements of the session such as the ac-tual speech (e.g.
pitch), para-verbal elements suchas patient movement, etc.
This work addresses onlytext interpretation issues.The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Sec-tion 2 describes related work in the area of com-putational tools for text analysis in psychology.
InSection 3, the theoretical framework for our work isbriefly introduced.
Section 4 describes the imple-mentation of NLP tools for the analysis of the in-terviews and Section 5 closes the paper describingcurrent and future work.2 Related WorkThere are a number of well-established compu-tational tools for the analysis and extraction ofmeaning from text in the social sciences (See(Alexa and Zuell, 2000) for an overview of toolsand resources).
Some tools are bound to particulartheoretical principles, for example the LWIC dic-tionary (Pennebaker et al, 2001) encodes specificcategories to be identified in text while others followa theory-free approach (Iker and Klein, 1974) wherethe theory emerges from the analysis of the data.There has been substantial research in the de-velopment of methods to analyze linguistic inputin the field of psychotherapy in order to measure anumber of psychological variables such as emotion,abstraction, referential activity, etc.
among themBucci?s Referential Activity (RA) non-weighted(Bucci, 2002) and weighted dictionaries (Bucci andMaskit, 2006) for the English language, or Ho?ltzerand others?
affective dictionary (Ho?lzer et al, 1997)for the German language.
The LIWC tool has beenused to detect different types of personalities inwritten self-descriptions (Chung and Pennebaker,2008).
This program counts meaningful wordsthat express emotion, abstraction, verbal behavior,demographic variables, traditional personality mea-sures, formal and informal settings, deception andhonesty, emotional upheavals, social interaction,use of cognitive and emotion words, word analysisin psychotherapy, references to self and others.For Spanish (Roussos and O?Connell, 2005) havedeveloped a dictionary in the area of psychotherapy33to measure referential activity.Early work on dictionaries in the area of psy-chology include the General Inquirer psycho-sociological dictionary (Stone and Hunt, 1963)which can be used in various applications; currentwork on lexical resources for identifying particu-lar text variables ?
such as measuring strong/weakopinions, sentiments, subjective/objective language,etc.
?
include the SentiWordnet resource (Esuli andSebastiani, 2006) derived from WordNet which hasbeen used in various opinion mining works (Devittand Ahmad, 2007); other lines of research includethe derivation of word-lists (semi) automatically foropinion classification (Turney, 2002).
To the best ofour knowledge, little research has been carried outon natural language processing for discourse inter-pretation in psychology.3 Theoretical Framework OverviewLiberman?s theory identifies 7 drives (i.e., a sub-set of Freud?s drives) which are introduced in Ta-ble 1 we may associate these drives with emotionalor affective states such as: strong emotions asso-ciated with IL; ecstasy or trance with O1; sadnesswith O2; anger with A1; concrete language withA2; warnings, suspense, and premonition with UPH; and congratulation, adulation, and promises withGPH.
In diagnosis these variables are associated topathologies such as addiction, schizophrenia, de-pression, paranoia, obsession, phobia, and hysteria;so their manifestation in text is of paramount impor-tance for diagnosis.Abbreviation Drive NameIL Intra-somatic libidoO1 Primary oralO2 Secondary oral sadisticA1 Primary anal sadisticA2 Secondary anal sadisticUPH Urethrae phallicGPH Genital phallicTable 1: Drives in Liberman and Maldavsky theoryThe theory also associates lexicalizations to eachof the drives (Maldavsky, 2003), thus creating a se-mantic dictionary with 7 categories, the main work-Drive LexicalisationIL verbs: to throw up, to break; nouns: hos-pital, throat; adjectives: sick, fat; ad-verbs: fatally, greedilyO1 verbs: to sip, to suck; nouns: enigma,research; adjectives: mystical, enlighten-ing; adverbs: elliptically, enigmaticallyO2 verbs: to feel, to feel like; nouns: feel-ing, victim; adjectives: sensitive, happy,sad; adverbs: fondly, obedientlyA1 verbs: to bother, to kick; nouns: vio-lence, transgression; adjectives: angry,locked; adverbs: angrily,boldly, crosslyA2 verbs: must, to know; nouns: vice,doubt; adjectives: good, bad; adverbs:but, although, howeverUPH verbs: to be able, to dare; nouns: scar,precipice, wound; adjectives: coward,scared; adverbs: almost, a bitGPH verbs: to promise, to give; nouns:beauty, ugliness; adjectives: wavy,pretty; adverbs: more, evenTable 2: Sample of drives and associated lexicalisationing hypothesis is that drives manifest through lin-guistic style, present at word level, phrase, and nar-rative.
Lexicalisations for each drive have been care-fully selected following a variety of methods includ-ing manual derivation of words from concepts, studyof texts where a scene is clearly present (e.g., every-day activities), use of thesaurus, etc.
Ambiguity ispreserved and a lexicalisation can signal more thanone drive.
We show some lexicalisations in Table 2.In addition to word-level analysis, the theory pro-vides methods for analysis at narrative and speechact level.Speech acts are actions performed when makingan utterance (Searle, 1969) and they include (Searle,1976) illocutionary (e.g.
assert, suggest), perlocu-tionary (e.g.
convince, insult), and propositional(e.g.
making a reference) types.
There has been sub-stantial work on speech act segmentation and classi-fication.
Different authors adopt different classifica-tions or theories of speech acts in order to restrictthe categories to those relevant for the purpose ofanalysis.
For example, in dialogue systems (Allen et34Drive Speech ActsIL references to the state of things; referenceto body and body processes; etc.O1 abstract deduction; negation; reference tophysical disomfort; etc.O2 lamentation; complain; beg; etc.A1 verbally abuse; provoke; confront; etc.A2 judge; clarify; confirm; etc.UPH forewarning; warning; inquest; counsel;etc.GPH congratulate; thank; promise; exaggerate;etc.Table 3: Drives and Speech Actsal., 1996; Henry Prakken, 2000), the list of speechacts may vary from 4 to 10 categories and it mayinclude acts such as assertion, WH-question, direc-tives, greeting, direct/indicrect request, etc.The pychoanalytic framework we are following hasits own inventory of speech acts.
The objective isalso to link scenes in narratives and speech acts tothe 7 drives (in Table 1).
There is a variety of speechacts in the adopted framework, in Table 3 we presenta sample of speech acts associated to each of thedrives.
The objective of the semi-automatic analysisis to help their identification to facilitate the work ofthe psychotherapist.4 Text Analysis of InterviewsWe have implemented a series of programs, lexicalresources, and grammars to process interviews andother types of textual data in Spanish.
We are us-ing the GATE system (Maynard et al, 2002) as aninfrastructure or development framework; most de-velopments are new, not included in the GATE sys-tem, and they are packaged in a plug-in which canbe accessed through the GATE system or used stand-alone.
We have developed various programs to auto-matically annotate the interviews including segmen-tation of the transcription, word-based thematic seg-mentation, tagging, and dictionary-based interpreta-tion and analysis.4.1 DictionaryOne of the main components of the system is adictionary which is taken as the basis for text inter-pretation.
This is being implemented as a languageresource in GATE.
It is based on lists of word formswhich have been created for each of the drives.The lists are organized according to their partsof speech.
The available dictionary (Maldavsky,2003) contains all inflected forms of verbs, nouns,adjectives, and adverbs which we are transforminginto a dictionary which will contain only roots.
Aninstance of the dictionary is created from the set oflists and kept on-line for processing.
The currentversion of the dictionary (inflected forms) containsover 298 thousand verb forms, over 22 thousandnoun forms, over 137 thousand adjectives, and over9 thousand adverbs.
An annotation tool has beenimplemented based on a schema for our dictionary,we use the graphical user interface functionalitiesprovided by the GATE infrastructure allowing aresearcher annotate words she may want to includedin the dictionary or segment the text in units forfurther analysis.4.2 Programs for Interviews?
InterpretationThe following programs used for the automaticanalysis of the interviews.?
A wrapper to the TreeTagger parts of speechpackage (Schmid, 1995) (See http://www.clarin.eu/tools/treetagger) hasbeen implemented in order to call it fromthe GATE system and an alignment programhas been developed to associate the output ofthe tagger to the actual text of the interview,therefore creating word annotations containingfeatures from the TreeTagger and additionalfeatures computed by our programs.
Note thatthe TreeTagger distributed with GATE wasinnapropriate for our purposes because it doesrequire tokenisation of the input performedbefore invoking the tagger, this is the reasonwhy we had to create our own wrapper.?
A segmentation program is used to identify pa-tient and therapist interventions.?
Text chuncking and named entity recognitionis being developed using Support VectorMachines and training data from the CoNLL35evaluation program.
We have created a train-able system using machine learning resourcesprovided by the GATE framework.
TheCoNLL 2002 Spanish dataset which providesinformation on named entities such as Loca-tion, Organization, Person, and Miscellaneouswas analyzed using parts-of-speech tagging,morphological analysis, and gazetteer lookupin order to derive a set of features for learn-ing.
A supports vector machine was trainedthat uses gazetteer information, word levelinformation, orthography, parts-of-speech, andlemmatization.
We have collected a numberof lists to assist the identification of namesof organization, persons, locations, time ex-pressions, etc.
The performance of the currentsystem is at 68% F-score.
Note that namedentity recognition is particularly importantto track names in longitudinal analysis ofinterviews, but also to disambiguate nameswhich in Spanish are ambiguous (e.g.
?amado?can be a person name in addition to a form ofthe verb ?amar?
; ?quito?
can be the name of aplace in addition to a form of the verb ?quitar?,etc.)?
A program uses the dictionary and interpretseach word or complex term according to thedrives in the dictionary taking into accountparts of speech information and named entityrecognition.?
A topic segmentation program has beenimplemented to break the interview in frag-ments which can be selected for fine-grainedinterpretation.
This module is based on tf*idfsimilarity between candidate segments.
Asecond module we are implementing aimsat the recognition of segments referring toprototypical scenes a patient may refer to:family, work, love, health, money, etc.
Furthergazetteer list information has been collectedfrom Spanish sources to create lexicons forassisting the automatic identification of theabove categories.
We are in the process ofmanually annotating a set of transcriptions asthe basis for training a classification system forthis task.
Conceptual information will be usedfor this purpose.?
A processing resource has been implemented togenerate an interpretation of the different lan-guages or drives?
variables for different seg-ments chosen by the human analyst (thera-pist or patient or any other segment of inter-est) and statistics are computed for each of thesegments; these can be exported for the ther-apist to carry out additional analysis and in-terpretation.
Note that the current tool con-siderably improves the previous practises indictionary-based interpretation, since the im-plemented tool takes into account syntactic andsemantic information as a filter for interpreta-tion.4.3 Rule-based Speech Acts?
DetectionWe are carrying out induction sessions with psy-chotherapits in order to capture ways in whichspeech acts in the adopted framework are expressed.The induction sessions provided valuable materialto start implementation of a rule-based speech actdetection program (with regular expressions and adictionary) based on use use of syntactic and lexicalinformation.
These procedures allow us to collect aset of expressions and lexical/syntactic patterns forobjective identification of a subset of speech acts.We are also annotating the development corpus ofinterviews (a total of 30 will be annotated with aminimum of 2 annotators per interview) with speechacts categories.
Each speech segment is annotatedwith one main speech act and a number (possiblyzero) subordinate speech acts.
We are using theGATE environment to provide appropriate supportfor the annotation process.
In Figure 2 we show afragment of interview in the annotation tool anno-tated according to the interpretation of one of ourjudges (the annotation window shows a ?complaint?speech act associated to the fragment ?no me estabatratando de entender como e?l siempre hace?
(?he didnot understand as he always does?)).
We expect theannotated corpus to be a valuable resource for thedevelopment of a trainable speech act recognitionprogram based on lexical clues and syntactic infor-36mation.
This trainable system will extend the rule-based approach or incorporate the rule-based analy-sis into it.A sample of expressions we have identified andimplemented for a subset of speech acts is presentedin Table 4.
The analysis of speech acts will providean additional level for drive?s identification.5 Perspectives and Current WorkWe have described our initial work on a set of toolsbeing developed for the analysis of psychotherapyinterviews in the Spanish language.
The tools ex-tend work on dictionary-based text interpretation byincorporating NLP tools such as tagging, topic/scenesegmentation, speech act detection, and named en-tity recognition.
One main contribution of our re-search is the implementation of a dictionary for theSpanish language which can be used not only for theidentification of Freudian variables but also for workon affective language and sentiment analysis.
Weare currently working on the development of a fullmodule for speech-act recognition and on the cre-ation of a corpus of annotated interviews which willserve for further training and evaluation purposes.The set of resources developed in the project willbe made available to the computational linguisticscommunity for research purposes.
We think that al-though this is work in progress it is worth mention-ing evaluation.
Where evaluation of the tools is con-cerned, we are carrying out intrinsic evaluation com-paring annotated categories against predicted cate-gories currently for named entity recognition anddiscourse segmentation and in the future for speechact recognition and classification.
Where more ex-trinsic evaluation is concerned, we will evaluate howthe tools presented here can help theraphist in bet-ter interpretation of clinical data.
The implementedtools will also be used to compare word-level basedinterpretation produced by the dictionary to interpre-tation produced by the analysis at speech act level.AcknowledgementsWe thank the reviewers for their very useful com-ments.
This work was partially supported by a grantfrom the Royal Society (JP090069), UK.
The firstauthor is grateful to Programa Ramo?n y Cajal 2009from the Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovacio?n, Spain.ReferencesM.
Alexa and C. Zuell.
2000.
Text analysis software:Commonalities, differences and limitations: The re-sults of a review.
Quality & Quantity, 34:299?231.J.
F. Allen, B. W. Miller, E. K. Ringger, and T. Sikorski.1996.
A robust system for natural spoken dialogue.In Proceedings of the 34th annual meeting on Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 62?70,Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.W.
Bucci and B. Maskit.
2006.
A Weighted ReferentialActivity Dictionary.
In Computing Attitude and Affectin Text: Theory and Applications, volume 20 of TheInformation Retrieval Series, pages 49?60.
SpringerVerlag.W.
Bucci.
2002.
Referential Activity (RA): Scales andcomputer procedures.
In An Open Door Review ofOutcome Studies in Psychoanalysis.
International Psy-choanalytical Association.C.K.
Chung and J.W.
Pennebaker.
2008.
Revealing di-mensions of thinking in open-ended self-descriptions:An automated meaning extraction method for naturallanguage.
Journal of Research in Personality, 42:96?132.Ann Devitt and Khurshid Ahmad.
2007.
Sentimentpolarity identification in financial news: A cohesion-based approach.
In Proceedings of the 45th AnnualMeeting of the Association of Computational Linguis-tics, pages 984?991, Prague, Czech Republic, June.Association for Computational Linguistics.Andrea Esuli and Fabrizio Sebastiani.
2006.
SENTI-WORDNET: A publicly available lexical resource foropinion mining.
In Proceedings of LREC-06, 5th Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation, pages417?422, Genova, IT.S.
Freud.
1925.
Obras Completas.
Amorrortu (Eds.
),Madrid, Spain.H.
Henry Prakken.
2000.
On dialogue systemswith speech acts, arguments, and counterarguments.In Logics in Artificial Intelligence, pages 224?238.Springer Verlag.M.
Ho?lzer, D. Pokorny, H. Ka?chele, and L. Luborsky.1997.
The Verbalization of Emotions in the Thera-peutic Dialogue-A Correlate of Therapeutic Outcome?Psychotherapy Research, 7(3):261?273.H.P.
Iker and R. Klein.
1974.
WORDS: A computersystem for the analysis of content.
Behavior ResearchMethods and Instrumentation, 6:430?438.D.
Liberman and D. Maldavsky.
1975.
Psicoanlisis ysemitica.
Paidos, Buenos Aires, Argentina.D.
Maldavsky.
2003.
La investigacin psicoanaltica dellenguaje: algoritmo David Liberman.
Editorial Lugar,Buenos Aires, Argentina.37Speech Act Pattern or Expressionbeg PPX + rogar | implorar | suplicardemand PPX + exhortar | exigir | demandar | perdirdemand recognition decir que esta bien | correcto | perfecto |bueno; esta?
bien, no?demand forgiveness PPX + perdonarjustify por que; por eso; debido a que; por esa razo?npermission con PPO permiso; pedir; PPX + dejarinterrupt para... para; espera...; ah me olvide...cite como dijo NP | PPX ; segu?n NP | PPX ; deacuerdo con NP | PPXsinthesis en resumen; para concluir; en s?
?ntesisdoubt no PPX quedar | ser | estar claro; quien sabetrust/distrust no confiar | desconfiar; confiar | desconfiarsubmission tener razo?n; no + PPX + enojarappeal decime que me quere?s; ...compassion/self-compassion me da pena; pobre; pobrecito;...sacrifice yo que hice todo esto; yo que te di todo; si nofuera por mi; ...Table 4: Speech Acts and Lexical/Syntactic Patterns (PPX = pronouns; NP = proper nouns; PPO = possessive)D. Maynard, V. Tablan, H. Cunningham, C. Ursu, H. Sag-gion, K. Bontcheva, and Y.Wilks.
2002.
ArchitecturalElements of Language Engineering Robustness.
Jour-nal of Natural Language Engineering ?
Special Issueon Robust Methods in Analysis of Natural LanguageData, 8(2/3):257?274.J.W.
Pennebaker, M.E.
Francis, and R.j.
Both.
2001.Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC).
ErlbaumPublishers.A.
Roussos and M. O?Connell.
2005.
Construccio?n deun diccionario ponderado en espan?ol para medir la Ac-tividad Referencial.
Revista del Instituto de Investiga-ciones de la Facultad de Psicolog?
?a - UBA, 10(2):99?119.H.
Schmid.
1995.
Improvements in part-of-speech tag-ging with an application to german.
In In Proceedingsof the ACL SIGDAT-Workshop, pages 47?50.J.
Searle.
1969.
Speech acts: An essay in the philosophyof language.
Cambridge University Press.John R. Searle.
1976.
A classification of illocutionaryacts.
Language in Society, 5(1):1?23.P.
J.
Stone and E. B.
Hunt.
1963.
A Computer Ap-proach to Content Analysis: Studies using the GeneralInquirer System.
In Proceedings of the Spring JointComputer Conference, pages 241?256, NewYork, NY,USA.
ACM.P.
D. Turney.
2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?
: se-mantic orientation applied to unsupervised classifica-tion of reviews.
In Proceedings of the 40th AnnualMeeting on Association for Computational Linguis-tics (ACL ?02), pages 417?424, Morristown, NJ, USA,July.
Association for Computational Linguistics.38Figure 2: Speech Acts Segmentation and Interpretation39
