Combine Person Name and Person Identity Recognition and Docu-ment Clustering for Chinese Person Name DisambiguationRuifeng Xu1,2,Jun Xu1,Xiangying Dai1Harbin Institute of Technology,Shenzhen Postgraduate School, China{xuruifeng.hitsz;hit.xujun;mi-chealdai}@gmail.comChunyu Kit22City University of Hong Kong,Hong Kong, Chinactckit@cityu.edu.hkAbstractThis paper presents the HITSZ_CITYUsystem in the CIPS-SIGHAN bakeoff2010 Task 3, Chinese person name dis-ambiguation.
This system incorporatesperson name string recognition, personidentity string recognition and an agglo-merative hierarchical clustering forgrouping the documents to each identicalperson.
Firstly, for the given name indexstring, three segmentors are applied tosegment the sentences having the indexstring into Chinese words, respectively.Their outputs are compared and analyzed.An unsupervised clustering is appliedhere to help the personal name recogni-tion.
The document set is then dividedinto subsets according to each recog-nized person name string.
Next, the sys-tem identifies/extracts the person identitystring from the sentences based on lex-icon and heuristic rules.
By incorporat-ing the recognized person identity string,person name, organization name andcontextual content words as features, anagglomerative hierarchical clustering isapplied to group the similar documentsin the document subsets to obtain the fi-nal person name disambiguation results.Evaluations show that the proposed sys-tem, which incorporates extraction andclustering technique, achieves encourag-ing recall and good overall performance.1 IntroductionMany people may have the same name whichleads to lots of ambiguities in text, especially forsome common person names.
This problem puz-zles many information retrieval and natural lan-guage processing tasks.
The person name ambi-guity problem becomes more serious in Chinesetext.
Firstly, Chinese names normally consist oftwo to four characters.
It means that for a two-character person name, it has only one characteras surname to distinguish from other personnames with the same family name.
It leads tothousands of people have the same commonname, such ??
and ??
.
Secondly, somethree-character or four-character person namemay have one two-character person name as itssubstring such as ??
and ??
?, which leadsto more ambiguities.
Thirdly, some Chinese per-son name string has the sense beyond the personname.
For example, a common Chinese name,??
has a sense of ?Peak?.
Thus, the role of astring as person name or normal word must bedetermined.
Finally, Chinese text is written incontinuous character strings without word gap.
Itleads to the problem that some person namesmay be segmented into wrong forms.In the recent years, there have been many re-searches on person name disambiguation(Fleischman and Hovy 2004; Li et al 2004; Niuet al 2004; Bekkerman and McCallum 2005;Chen and Martin 2007; Song et al 2009).
Topromote the research in this area, Web PeopleSearch (WePS and WePS2) provides a standardevaluation, which focuses on information extrac-tion of personal named-entities in Web data (Ar-tiles et al, 2007; Artiles et al, 2009; Sekine andArtiles, 2009).
Generally speaking, both cluster-based techniques which cluster documents cor-responding to one person with similar contexts,global features and document features (Han et al2004; Pedersen et al 2005; Elmacioglu et al2007; Pedersen and Anagha 2007; Rao et al2007) and information extraction based tech-niques which recognizes/extracts the descriptionfeatures of one person name (Heyl and Neumann2007; Chen et al 2009) are adopted.
Consider-ing that these evaluations are only applied toEnglish text, CIPS-SIGHAN 2010 bakeoff pro-posed the first evaluation campaign on Chineseperson name disambiguation.
In this evaluation,corresponding to given index person name string,the systems are required to recognize each iden-tical person having the index string as substringand classify the document corresponding to eachidentical person into a group.This paper presents the design and implemen-tation of HITSZ_CITYU system in this bakeoff.This system incorporates both recogni-tion/extract technique and clustering techniquefor person name disambiguation.
It consists oftwo major components.
Firstly, by incorporatingword segmentation, named entity recognition,and unsupervised clustering, the system recog-nize the person name string in the document andthen classify the documents into subsets corres-ponding to the person name.
Secondly, for thedocuments having the same person name string,the system identifies the person identify string,other person name, organization name and con-textual context words as features.
An agglomera-tive hierarchical clustering algorithm is appliedto cluster the documents to each identical person.In this way, the documents corresponding toeach identical person are grouped, i.e.
the personname ambiguities are removed.
The evaluationresults show that the HITSZ_CITYU systemachieved 0.8399(B-Cubed)/0.8853(P-IP) preci-sions and 0.9329(B-Cubed)/0.9578(P-IP) recall,respectively.
The overall F1 performance0.8742(B-Cubed)/0.915(P-IP) is ranked 2nd inten participate teams.
These results indicate thatthe proposed system incorporating both extrac-tion and clustering techniques achieves satisfac-tory recall and overall performance.The rest of this report is organized as follows.Section 2 describes and analyzes the task.
Sec-tion 3 presents the word segmentation and per-son name recognition and Section 4 presents theperson description extraction and documentclustering.
Section 5 gives and discusses theevaluation results.
Finally, Section 6 concludes.2 Task DescriptionCIPS-SIGHAN bakeoff on person name disam-biguation is a clustering task.
Corresponding to26 person name query string, the systems arerequired to cluster the documents having the in-dex string into multiple groups, which eachgroup representing a separate entity.HITSZ_CITYU system divided the wholetask into two subtasks:1.
Person name recognition.
It includes:1.1  Distinguish person name/ non personname in the document.
For a given indexstring ?
?, in Example 1, ??
is a personname while in Example 2, ??
is a nounmeaning ?peak?
rather than a person name.Example 1.
???????????????????
(Gaofeng, the Negotiatorand professor of Beijing People's PoliceCollege, said).Example 2.
???????
11.83%????
(This value raise to the peak value of11.83%).1.2  Recognize the exact person name, espe-cially for three-character to four-characternames.
For a given index string, ?
?, aperson name ??
should be identified inExample 3 while???
should be identi-fied from Example 4.Example 3.
???????????????????
(Li Yan from Chineseteam one is the highest one in the femaleathletes participating this game).Example 4.
?????????
(Thesoldier Li YanQing is an orphan)2.
Cluster the documents for each identicalperson.
That is for each person recognizedperson name, cluster documents into groupswhile each group representing an individualperson.
For the non person names instances(such as Example 2), they are clustered intoa discarded group.
Meanwhile, the differentperson with the same name should be sepa-rated.
For example, ??
in the Example 3and Example 5 is a athlete and a painter, re-spectively.
These two sentences should becluster into different groups.Example 5.
????????????????
(The famous painter Li Yan , whoinvolved in hosting this exhibition, said that)3 Person Name RecognitionAs discussed in Section 2, HITSZ_CITYU sys-tem firstly recognizes the person names from thetext including distinguish the person name/ non-person name word and recognize the differentperson name having the name index string.
Inour study, we adopted three developed wordsegmentation and named entity recognition toolsto generate the person name candidates.
Thethree tools are:1.
Language Processing Toolkit from Intel-ligent Technology & Natural LanguageProcessing Lab (ITNLP) of Harbin Insti-tute of Technology (HIT).http://www.insun.hit.edu.cn/2.
ICTCLAS from Chinese Academy ofSciences.
http://ictclas.org/3.
The Language Technology Platform fromInformation Retrieval Lab of Harbin Insti-tute of Technology.
http://ir.hit.edu.cnWe apply the three tools to segment and tagthe documents into Chinese words.
The recog-nized person name having the name index stringwill be labeled as /nr while the index string islabeled as discard if it is no recognized as a per-son name even not a word.
For the sentenceshaving no name index string, we simply vote theword segmentation results by as the output.
Asfor the sentences having name index string, weconduct further analysis on the word segmenta-tion results.1.
For the cases that the matched string isrecognized as person name and non-person name by different systems, respec-tively, we selected the recognized personname as the output.
For example, inExample 6.
????????????????????????
(Secre-tary for Health, Welfare and Food, YangYongqiang commended the excellent workof Tse Wanwen).the segmentation results by three segmen-tors are ??
?/nr |discarded|???/nr,respectively.
We select ??
?/nr as theoutput.2.
For the cases that three systems generatedifferent person names, we further incor-porating unsupervised clustering resultsfor determination.
Here, an agglomerativehierarchical clustering with high thresholdis applied (the details of clustering will bepresented in Section 4).Example 7.
??????
(Zhufangovercome three barriers)In this example, the word segmentationresults are ?
?/nr, ??
?/nr, ??
?/nr, respectively.
It is shown that there isa segmentation ambiguity here becauseboth ??
and ???
are legal Chineseperson names.
Such kinds of ambiguitycannot be solved by segmentors indivi-dually.
We further consider the clusteringresults.
Since the Example 7 is clusteredwith the documents having the segmenta-tion results of ?
?, two votes (emphasizethe clustering confidence) for ??
are as-signed.
Thus, ??
and ???
obtained 3votes and 2 votes in this case, respectively,and thus ??
is selected as the output.3.
For cases that the different person nameforms having the same votes, the longerperson name is selected.
In the followingexample,Example 8.
??????????????????????
(Prof. ZhangMingxuan, the deputy director of Shang-hai Municipal Education Commission,said at the forum)The segmentation form of ??
and ???
received the same votes, thus, thelonger one???
is selected as the out-put.In this component, we applied three segmen-tors (normally using the local features only) withthe help of clustering to (using both the local andglobal features) recognize person name in thetext with high accuracy.
It is important to ensurethe recall performance of the final output.
Noted,in order to ensure the high precision of cluster-ing, we set a high similarity threshold here.4 Person Name Disambiguation4.1 Person Identity Recognition/ExtractionA person is distinguished by its associatedattributes in which its identity description is es-sential.
For example, a person name has theidentity of ??
president and ??
farmer, re-spectively, tends to be two different persons.Therefore, in HITSZ_CITYU system, the personidentity is extracted based on lexicon and heuris-tic rules before person name disambiguation.We have an entity lexicon consisting of 85suffixes and 248 prefix descriptor for persons asthe initial lexicon.
We further expand this lex-icon through extracting frequently used entitywords from Gigaword.
Here, we segmenteddocuments in Gigaword into word sequences.For each identified person name, we collect itsneighboring nouns.
The associations between thenouns and person name can be estimated by their?2 test value.
For a candidate entity wa and per-son name wb, (here, wb is corresponding to per-son name class with the label /nr), the following2-by-2 table shown the dependence of their oc-currence.Table 1 The co-occurrence of two wordsawx = awx ?bwy =  C11 C12bwy ?
C21 C22For wa and wb, ?2 test (chi-square test) esti-mates the differences between observed and ex-pected values as follows:)()()()()(22212212211122112211222112CCCCCCCCCCCCN+++++++??=?
(1)where, N is the total number of words in thecorpus.
The nouns having the ?2 value greaterthan a threshold are extracted as entity descrip-tors.In person entity extraction subtask, for eachsentence has the recognized person name, thesystem matches its neighboring nouns (-2 to +2words surrounding the person name) with theentries in entity descriptor lexicon.
The matchedentity descriptors are extracted.In this part, several heuristic rules are appliedto handle some non-neighboring cases.
Two ex-ample rules with cases are given below.Example Rule 1.
The prefix entity descriptorwill be assigned to parallel person names withthe split mark of ?/?
, ??
?and ???,???(and).???????
/??
(Chinese playersGong Yuechun/Wang Hui)?>??
player-???
Gong Yuechun??
player-??
Wang HuiExample Rule 2.
The entity descriptor will beassigned to each person in the structure of paral-lel person name following ??(etc.)?
and then aentity word.??????????????????????
(The painter, Liu Bingsen, Chen Daz-hang, Li Yan, Jin Hongjun, etc., paint a.. ) ->???
Liu Bingsen - ???
painter???
Chen Dazhang - ???
painter??
Li Yan - ???
painter???
Jin Hongjun - ???
painterFurthermore, the HITSZ_CITYU system ap-plies several rules to identify a special kind ofperson entity, i.e.
the reporter or author usingstructure information.
For example, in the be-ginning or the end of a document, there is a per-son name in a bracket means this person and thisname appear in the document for only once;such person name is regarded as the reporter orauthor.
(????????)
?>???
Jin Lin-peng - ??
reporter(???
??)
?>???
Jin Linpeng - ?
?reporter4.2 Clustering-based Person Name Disam-biguationFor the document set corresponding to each giv-en index person name, we firstly split the docu-ment set into: (1) Discarded subset, (2) Subsetwith different recognized person name.
The sub-sets are further split into (2-1) the person is theauthor/reporter and (2-2) the person is not theauthor/reporter.
The clustering techniques arethen applied to group documents in each (2-2)subset into several clusters which each cluster iscorresponding to each identical person.In the Chinese Person Name Disambiguationtask, the number of clusters contained in a subsetis not pre-available.
Thus, the clustering methodwhich fixes the number of clusters, such as k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) is not applicable.
Con-sidering that Agglomerative Hierarchical Clus-tering (AHC) algorithm doesn?t require the fixednumber of cluster and it performs well in docu-ment categorization (Jain and Dubes 1988), it isadopted in HITSZ_CITYU system.Preprocessing and Document RepresentationBefore representing documents, a series of pro-cedures are adopted to preprocess these docu-ments including stop word removal.
Next, weselect feature words for document clustering.Generally, paragraphs containing the target per-son name usually contain more person-relatedinformation, such as descriptor, occupation, af-filiation, and partners.
Therefore, larger weightsshould be assigned to these words.
Furthermore,we further consider the appearance position ofthe features.
Intuitively, local feature words withsmall distance are more important than the glob-al features words with longer distance.We implemented some experiments on thetraining data to verify our point.
Table 2 and Ta-ble 3 show the clustering performance achievedusing different combination of global featuresand local features as well as different similaritythresholds.Table 2.
Performance achieved on training setwith different weights (similarity threshold 0.1)Feature words Precision Recall F-1Paragraph 0.820 0.889 0.849All 0.791 0.880 0.826All+ Paragraph?1 0.791 0.904 0.839All+ Paragraph?2 0.802 0.908 0.848All+ Paragraph?3 0.824 0.909 0.860All+ Paragraph?4 0.831 0.911 0.865All+ Paragraph?5 0.839 0.910 0.869All+ Paragraph?6 0.833 0.905 0.864All+ Paragraph?7 0.838 0.904 0.867Table 3.
Performance achieved on training setwith different weights (similarity threshold 0.15)Feature words Precision Recall F-1Paragraph 0.
901       0.873        0.883All 0.859        0.867 0.859All+ Paragraph?1 0.875 0.887 0.877All+ Paragraph?2 0.885 0.890 0.884All+ Paragraph?3 0.889 0.887 0.885All+ Paragraph?4 0.896 0.887 0.880All+ Paragraph?5 0.906 0.882 0.891All+ Paragraph?6 0.905 0.884 0.891All+ Paragraph?7 0.910 0.882 0.893In this two tables, ?Paragraph?
means that weonly select words containing in paragraph whichcontains the person index name as feature words(which are the local features), and ?All?
meansthat we select all words but stop words in a doc-ument as feature words.
?All+ Paragraph?k?means feature words consist of two parts, onepart is obtained from ?All?, the other is gainedfrom ?Paragraph?, at the same time, we assignthe feature weights to the two parts, respectively.The feature weight coefficient of ?All?
is)1(1 +k , while the feature weight coefficient of?All+ Paragraph?k?
is )1( +kk .It is shown that, the system perform best usingappropriate feature weight coefficient distribu-tion.
Therefore, we select all words in the docu-ment (besides stop words) as global featurewords and the words in paragraph having theindex person name as local feature words.
Wethen assign the corresponding empirical featureweight coefficient to the global/local features,respectively.
A document is now represented asa vector of feature words as follows:)))(,());(,());(,(()( 2211 dwtdwtdwtdV nnL?
(2)where, d is a document, it  is a feature word,)(dwi  is the feature weight of it  in the documentd .
In this paper, we adopt a widely used weight-ing scheme, named Term Frequency with In-verse Document Frequency (TF-IDF).
In addi-tion, for each document, we need to normalizeweights of features because documents have dif-ferent lengths.
The weight of word it in docu-ment d  is shown as:?
++?==ni iiiiidfNdtfdfNdtfdw12))05.0log(*)(()05.0log()()((3)where )(dtf i means how many times word it oc-curs in the document d , idf  means how manydocuments contains word it , and N  is the num-ber of documents in the corpus.Similarity EstimationWe use the cosine distance as similarity calcula-tion function.
After the normalization of weightsof each document, the similarity between docu-ment 1d  and document 2d  is computed as:?
?=??
212121 )()(),(dditii dwdwddsim   (4)where it  is the term which appears in document1d  and document 2d  simultaneously, )( 1dwi  and)( 1dwi  are the weights of it  in document 1d  anddocument 2d  respectively.
If it  does not appearin a document, the corresponding weight in thedocument is zero.Agglomerative Hierarchical Clustering (AHC)AHC is a bottom-up hierarchical clusteringmethod.
The framework of AHC is described asfollows:Assign each document to a single cluster.Calculate all pair-wise similarities betweenclusters.Construct a distance matrix using the similari-ty values.Look for the pair of clusters with the largestsimilarity.Remove the pair from the matrix and mergethem.Evaluate all similarities from this new clusterto all other clusters, and update the matrix.Repeat until the largest similarity in the matrixis smaller than some similarity criteria.There are three methods to estimate the simi-larity between two different clusters during thecluster mergence: single link method, averagelink method and complete link method (Nallapatiet al 2004).
The three methods define the similar-ity between two clusters 1c  and 2c  as follows:Single link method: The similarity is thelargest of all similarities of all pairs of docu-ments between clusters 1c  and 2c  and defined as:),(max),(2,121 jicjdcidddsimccsim?
?=      (5)Average link method: The similarity is theaverage of the similarities of all pairs of docu-ments between clusters 1c  and 2c  and defined as:211 221),(),(ccddsimccsimcid cjdji??
?= ?
?
(6)Complete link method: The similarity is thesmallest of all similarities of all pairs of docu-ments between clusters 1c  and 2c  and defined as:),(min),(2,121 jicjdcidddsimccsim?
?=       (7)where, id   and jd   are the documents belongsto clusters 1c  and 2c , respectively.We evaluated the AHC algorithm with theabove three link methods.
The achieved perfor-mance are given in Table 4.
It is shown that thesystem performs best with the complete link me-thod.
Therefore, the complete link method isselected for the bakeoff testing.Table 4.
Performance achieved on training setwith different link methodSimilaritythresholdLink method Precision Recall F10.1 Single link 0.048 1.000 0.0890.1 Average link 0.839 0.910 0.8690.1 Complete link 0.867 0.888 0.8740.15 Single link 0.048 1.000 0.0890.15 Average link 0.906 0.882 0.8910.15 Complete link 0.923 0.868 0.8915 EvaluationsThe task organizer provides two set of evalua-tion criteria.
They are purity-based score (usual-ly used in IR), B-cubed score (used in WePS-2),respectively.
The details of the evaluation crite-ria are given in the task overview.The performance achieved by the top-3 sys-tems are shown in Table 5.Table 5.
Performance of Top-3 SystemsB-Cubed P-IPSystem Precision Recall F1 Precision Recall F1NEU 0.957 0.883 0.914 0.969 0.925 0.945HITSZ 0.839 0.932 0.874 0.885 0.958 0.915DLUT 0.826 0.913 0.863 0.879 0.942 0.907The evaluation results show that theHITSZ_CITYU system achieved overall F1 per-formance of 0.8742(B-Cubed)/ 0.915(P-IP), re-spectively.It is also shown that HITSZ_CITYU achievesthe highest the recall performance.
It shows thatthe proposed system is good at split the docu-ment to different identical persons.
Meanwhile,this system should improve the capacity onmerge small clusters to enhance the precisionand overall performance.6 ConclusionsThe presented HITSZ_CITYU system appliesmulti-segmentor and unsupervised clustering toachieve good accuracy on person name stringrecognition.
The system then incorporates entitydescriptor extraction, feature word extractionand agglomerative hierarchical clustering me-thod for person name disambiguation.
Theachieved encouraging performance shown thehigh performance word segmentation/name rec-ognition and extraction-based technique arehelpful to improve the cluster-based personname disambiguation.ReferencesAndrea Heyl and G?nter Neumann.
DFKI2: An In-formation Extraction based Approach to PeopleDisambiguation.
Proceedings of ACL SEMEVAL2007, 137-140, 2007.Artiles, Javier, Julio Gonzalo and Satoshi Sekine, TheSemEval-2007 WePS Evaluation: Establishing abenchmark for the Web People Search Task, Pro-ceedings of Semeval 2007, Association for Com-putational Linguistics, 2007.Artiles, Javier, Julio Gonzalo and Satoshi Sekine.
?WePS 2 Evaluation Campaign: Overview of theWeb People Search Clustering Task, In 2nd WebPeople Search Evaluation Workshop (WePS 2009),18th WWW Conference, 2009Bekkerman, Ron and McCallum, Andrew, Disambi-guating Web Appearances of People in a SocialNetwork, Proceedings of WWW2005, pp.463-470,2005Ergin Elmacioglu, Yee Fan Tan, Su Yan, Min-YenKan, and Dongwon Lee.
PSNUS: Web PeopleName Disambiguation by Simple Clustering withRich Features.
Proceedings of ACL SEMEVAL2007, 268-271, 2007.Fei Song, Robin Cohen, Song Lin, Web PeopleSearch Based on Locality and Relative SimilarityMeasures, Proceedings of WWW 2009Fleischman M. B. and Hovy E., Multi-document Per-son Name Resolution, Proceedings of ACL-42,Reference Resolution Workshop, 2004Hui Han , Lee Giles , Hongyuan Zha , Cheng Li ,Kostas Tsioutsiouliklis, Two Supervised LearningApproaches for Name Disambiguation in AuthorCitations, Proceedings of the 4th ACM/IEEE-CSjoint conference on Digital libraries, 2004Jain, A. K. and Dubes, R.C.
Algorithms for Cluster-ing Data, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, N.J.,1988Nallapati, R., Feng, A., Peng, F., Allan, J., EventThreading within News Topics, Proceedings of-CIKM 2004, pp.
446?453, 2004Niu, Cheng, Wei Li, and Rohini K. Srihari,WeaklySupervised Learning for Cross-document PersonName Disambiguation Supported by InformationExtraction, Proceedings of ACL 2004Pedersen, Ted, Amruta Purandare, and Anagha Kul-karni, Name Discrimination by Clustering SimilarContexts, Proceedings of the Sixth InternationalConference on Intelligent Text Processing andComputational Linguistics, Mexico City, Mexico,2005Pedersen, Ted and Anagha Kulkarni, UnsupervisedDiscrimination of Person Names in Web Contexts,Proceedings of the Eighth International Confe-rence on Intelligent Text Processing and Computa-tional Linguistics, Mexico City, 2007.Rao, Delip, Nikesh Garera and David Yarowsky,JHU1: An Unsupervised Approach to PersonName Disambiguation using Web Snippets, InProceedings of ACL Semeval 2007Sekine, Satoshi and Javier Artiles.
WePS 2 Evalua-tion Campaign: overview of the Web PeopleSearch Attribute Extraction Task, Proceedings of2nd Web People Search Evaluation Workshop(WePS 2009), 18th WWW Conference, 2009Xin Li, Paul Morie, and Dan Roth, Robust Reading:Identification and Tracing of Ambiguous Names,Proceedings of NAACL,pp.
17-24, 2004.Ying Chen, Sophia Yat Mei Lee, Chu-Ren Huang,PolyUHK: A Robust Information Extraction Sys-tem for Web Personal Names, Proceedings ofWWW 2009Ying Chen and Martin J.H.
CU-COMSEM: Explor-ing Rich Features for Unsupervised Web PersonalName Disambiguation, Proceedings of ACL Se-meval 2007
