Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 First International Workshop on Formalisms and Methodology for Learning by Reading, pages 114?121,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSupporting rule-based representations with corpus-derived lexicalinformation.Annie ZaenenCleo CondoravdiDaniel G. BobrowPARC3333, Coyote Hill RoadPalo Alto, CA, 94304, USA{zaenen,condorav,bobrow}@parc.comRaphael HoffmannUniversity of WashingtonBox 352350Seattle, WA, 98195, USAraphaelh@cs.washington.eduAbstractThe pervasive ambiguity of language al-lows sentences that differ in just one lexi-cal item to have rather different inferencepatterns.
This would be no problem if thedifferent lexical items fell into clearly de-finable and easy to represent classes.
Butthis is not the case.
To draw the correctinferences we need to look how the refer-ents of the lexical items in the sentence (orbroader context) interact in the describedsituation.
Given that the knowledge oursystems have of the represented situationwill typically be incomplete, the classifica-tions we come up with can only be prob-abilistic.
We illustrate this problem withan investigation of various inference pat-terns associated with predications of theform ?Verb from X to Y?, especially ?gofrom X to Y?.
We characterize the vari-ous readings and make an initial proposalabout how to create the lexical classes thatwill allow us to draw the correct inferencesin the different cases.1 IntroductionMachine Reading requires a level of NaturalLanguage Processing that allows direct infer-ences to be drawn from the processed texts.Most heavy duty inferencing will be done by areasoning engine working on the output of thelinguistic analysis (with possible loops betweenthe two) but for this to be possible, the linguisticanalysis should deliver representations where acertain level of disambiguation and content spec-ification has been done.
For instance, a humanwill draw different conclusions from the follow-ing two sentences about the position of the ref-erent of the subject: ?Eric went from Paris toLyon?
and ?The road went from Paris to Lyon?.The first sentence implies that a person namedEric was in Paris at some time and in Lyon ata later time, whereas the second sentence im-plies that a part of the road was in Paris and apart of it was in Lyon at the same time.
For thereasoner to draw such conclusions, the linguis-tic analysis should assign appropriate roles tothe subject argument and the from-to adjunctor argument phrases of the verbal predicate goso as to convey that the first sentence involvesmovement, while the second involves spatial ex-tent.In this paper we look at a range of such in-ferences associated with from-to phrases.
Welimit ourselves to rather simple cases of theuse of from-to phrases: those that describe nochange or gradual changes in the physical world.We show that beyond inferences about time-dependent locations and spatial extent of partic-ular entities, from-to phrases give rise to infer-ences about change of an entity in some dimen-sion (e.g.
temperature or width) either throughtime or through space.
We first discuss the in-ferences we would like to be able to draw, anddescribe features of a representation that cap-tures enough distinctions to enable these infer-ences to be drawn.
This allows us to isolate thefactors leading to such inferences.
Finally, wegive a preliminary sketch of a corpus analysisthat would help make the required distinctions114and characterize appropriate lexical classes.2 Some simple inferencesConsider the following sentences:1.
Eric went from Paris to Lyon.2.
The road went from Paris to Lyon.3.
The meeting went from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.4.
The temperature in the room went from 20degrees to 30 degrees from 10 to 11 a.m.5.
The temperature went from 20 to 30 de-grees from the front to the back of the room6.
The temperature went from 20 degrees to30 degrees.7.
The room went from 20 to 30 degrees.As indicated above, we would like the system tobe able to conclude from (1) that Eric was inParis before being in Lyon, and from (2) thatone part of the road is in Paris whereas anotherpart is in Lyon at the same time.
From (3) thesystem should infer that the mentioned event,the meeting, started at 3 p.m. (or no later than3 p.m.) and ended at 5 p.m. (or no earlier than5 p.m.).
From (4) the system should infer thatthe value of the function temperature as it ap-plies to the room increases over the given tem-poral span.
It is worth noting at this point thatthe two sets of from-to phrases in (4) play differ-ent roles.
The temporal from-to phrases specifythe relevant domain of the temporal argument ofthe function, while the measure from-to phrasesspecify the range of the function on the givendomain.
(5) has a similar implication to thatof (4), that the temperature changes, but thistime over a spatial dimension: the temperatureis implied to vary in different parts of the room,being 20 degrees in the front of the room and 30degrees in the back.
Again the two sets of from-to phrases in (5) play different roles.
The spa-tial from-to phrases specify the relevant domainof the spatial argument of the function and themeasure from-to phrases specify the range of thefunction on the given domain.
(6) and (7) havesimilar implications to those of (4) and, in theright context, to those of (5) but they presentchallenges of their own.
In (6) the temporal (orspatial) dimension is implicit and needs to be in-ferred.
(7) requires the inference that a changeof the values of the function temperature is in-volved.1These examples show that sentences that havesubstantially the same syntax and even use thesame main verb can exhibit very different rela-tions between their parts.
The first question wewant to address is how to explicate these dif-ferences and the second question is how to getfrom the words used in these sentences to theinformation needed about their type of referentto ensure the right interpretation in each case.The verb ?to go?
is, of course, not the onlyone that exhibits this behavior.
The differencein interpretation between examples (1) and (2)can also be found with manner-of-motion verbssuch as ?run?
and ?zigzag?.
Some verbs do lexi-cally encode a particular functional dimension,such as temperature or width.
These are knownas degree achievements (Dowty, 1979; Abusch,1986).2 Examples of degree achievements in-clude ?widen?, ?lengthen?, ?shorten?, ?cool?, ?age?.They exhibit similar patterns of modificationwith from-to phrases as we saw above:8.
The road widens from Palo Alto to MenloPark.9.
The road widens from 12 to 24 feet.Here ?widen?
is interpreted statively, like ?go?
in(2), and the two sentences imply spatial changein width, over subparts of the road.
The twofrom-to phrases, however, have a different func-tion giving rise to different implications.
(8) im-plies that the road is wider in Menlo Park than itis in Palo Alto.
(9) specifies the relation betweenthe measures of width at two different subpartsof the road.
The from-to phrases in (8) specify1It is not clear that the change has to be in one direc-tional in all cases:This summer, the temperature went from 20 de-grees to 30 degrees.In this example, it seems that the temperature variedfrom 20 to 30 degrees, not necessarily that 20 degreeswas a starting point or 30 degrees an end point.
Seesection 4.1 for some further discussion.2In English most degree achievements are derivedfrom gradable adjectives.
When this is the case, themeaning of degree achievements and underlying adjec-tives is systematically related, as argued in (Hay et al,1999).115the domain of the spatial argument of the func-tion width as it applies to the referent of ?theroad?.
Those in (9) specify the range of the val-ues of the function width as it applies to differentparts of the referent of ?the road?.In what follows we will distinguish betweenextent readings and change readings.
Extentreadings specify, in full or in part, the tempo-ral or spatial extent of a temporal or spatial en-tity, as seen in (3) and (2).
Change readingsspecify the values of a function as applied to agiven entity through a temporal or spatial span.The function is either determined directly by theverb, as in (8) and (9), or by the verb in com-bination with one of its arguments, as in (4) ?
(6), or it has to be inferred, as in (1) and (7).3 Representing the different readingsFor the sake of concreteness, in this section weshow how the distinctions discussed above arerepresented and implemented in AKR, an ab-stract knowledge representation language intowhich sentences are mapped after they areparsed in the NL system developed at PARC(Bobrow et al, 2007).
The idea behind AKR isto canonicalize many variations of an input textwith the same underlying meaning into a moreuniform representation.
This ought to make thetask of interfacing with reasoners easier.The AKR of a sentence consists of a list ofassertions.
Terms are generated for each of thecontent words of a sentence, such as verbs andnouns, and are associated with assertions aboutthe types of events and objects their correspond-ing words refer to.
Predicates and their argu-ments or modifiers are related via role relations.The inventory of roles we use extends the setof semantic or thematic roles often assumed inlinguistic analyses and found in resources suchVerbNet or FrameNet.
It includes among otherthings temporal or spatial relations of inclusion,precedence, etc.We assume that sentences with from-tophrases imply the existence of a path and thatthe further information about the path specifiedis about the ?location?
of its initial and finalpoints.
In representing such sentences a term iscreated to represent a path and the path termis linked by a role initial to the term for thecomplement of from, and by a role final to theterm for the complement of to.
On our analysisthen the from-to phrases are used to specify re-strictions on the path term and do not translateinto thematic roles relating the verbal predicateand the complement NP, such source or goal.The path term is related to the verbal term viadifferent roles, depending on the type of inter-pretation.
Below is an example that shows therole relations in AKR for sentence (1).role(theme, go:13, Eric:7)role(mpath, go:13, path:23)role(initial,path:23,loc(-at-,Paris:4))role(final,path:23,loc(-at-,Lyon:6))role(dimension,path:23,loc)3.1 Extent interpretationsIn extent readings the subject argument denotesan entity extended in space, as seen in (2), or anon-punctual event, as seen in (3).
The verbitself does little work other than to signal thatthe from-to phrases give information about thespatial or temporal extent of its subject argu-ment.
The way they do that is by saying thatthe given path is a spatial or temporal part ofthe entity that is the referent of the subject ar-gument.
Let us start with the representation of(3), as the representation of its meaning in ourterms is quite intuitive.
Temporal paths, suchas from-to-span:11, correspond to time periods.role(initial,time-span:11,timepoint(-at-,3pm))role(final,time-span:11,timepoint(-at-,5pm))role(temporalWithin,time-span:11,meeting:1)It should now be clear that the representationfor the spatial extent reading would differ min-imally from that of the temporal extent read-ing: the relation between the path and the roadterms would be that of spatial inclusion and thedimension of the path is locational.role(initial,path:23,loc(-at-,Paris:4))role(final,path:23,loc(-at-,Lyon:6))role(spatialWithin,path:23,road:10)1163.2 Change interpretationsAs discussed in section 2, change interpretationsestablish a dependency between two paths whichshould be represented explicitly.
The pathsthemselves may be specified overtly by from-tophrases or they may be implicit.
Functionallyrelating two paths of this type was first dis-cussed, to our knowledge, in (Jackendoff, 1996)and further developed in (Gawron, 2005) and(Gawron, 2009).Let us consider first example (4), where thetwo paths are given explicitly.
(4) implies achange in the temperature of the room over timeso the function temperature should be construedas time-dependent.
The temporal path speci-fies the time period over which the given changein temperature takes place; the scalar path par-tially specifies the range of the function over thegiven temporal domain.
What we can concludefor certain from (4) is that the temperature inthe room was 20 degrees at 10 a.m. and 30 de-grees at 11 a.m.
The sentence gives no specificinformation about the temperature of the roomin between 10 and 11 a.m. though in this case,given that change in temperature is continuous,we can conclude that every degree between 20and 30 was the temperature of the room at somepoint within the relevant time period.In order to represent the dependency betweenthe two paths we use a higher order predicatepath-map that specifies a function, that variesover a range (in this case the scalar path from20 degrees to 30 degrees) with a domain (inthis case the temporal path from 10 a.m. to 11a.m.).
More generally: the higher-order predi-cate, path-map(F,D,R), relates a function Fand two posets D and R. The path-map relationexpresses that the image of D under F is equalto R.3 For (4) we end up with the following rep-resentation.role(scale,go:5,path:4)role(dimension, path:4,temperature)role(initial,path:4,temperature(-at-,20 deg))role(final,path:4,temperature(-at-,30 deg))3Depending on what F, D and R are, this mappingmay also be order preserving, i.e.
for all elements x, y inD, if x precedes y then F(x) precedes F(y).role(initial,time-span:11,timepoint(-at-,10am))role(final,time-span:11,timepoint(-at-,11am))path-map(function(temperature,room:2),time-span:11,path:4)The fact that path:4 is a scalar path is markedby relating it to the verbal term via the rolescale.The other examples discussed in section 2 re-ceive representations based on this model.
(5)implies a change in the temperature of the roomover its spatial extent oriented from the front tothe back, so the function temperature should beconstrued as location-dependent.
Below we givethe assertions for the representation of (5) thatdiffer from those of (4).
Note the additionalassertion relating the spatial path term to theroom term.role(initial,path:11,loc(-at-,front:10))role(final,path:11,loc(-at-,back:12))role(spatialWithin,,path:11,room:2)path-map(function(temperature,room:2),path:11,path:4)The representation of sentences with degreeachievements, such as The road widens from 12to 24 feet from Palo Alto to Menlo Park, wouldthe same in all relevant respects except that thedimension of the scalar path would be deter-mined by the verb, in this case being width.To derive full representations for (6) and (7)we need to be able to infer the second and thefirst argument of function, respectively.
More-over, we need to fix the dimension of the implicitpath.
Generally, when only one path is specifiedovertly, as in (6), (7) and (8) and (9) the exis-tence of the other type of path is understood.When only the range path is given, the under-stood domain path can be either temporal orlocational.We come now to the prototypical use of afrom-to phrase with verbs like ?go?
to describemovement whose origin is specified by the fromphrase and whose destination is specified by theto phrase.
We gave a preliminary representationfor (1) at the beginning of section 3.
Missingfrom that representation is the explicit link be-tween the location of the theme argument during117the time of the movement.
This link, of course,can now be given in terms of the following path-map assertion:path-map(function(location,Eric:7),time(go:13),path:23)4 Which elements in the sentenceguide interpretation?In our system roles and dimensions are intro-duced by rules that take the output of the syn-tactic parse of the sentence as input.
The exactform of these rules need not to concern us here.But an important question for nlp is where theinformation comes from that allows us to deter-mine which role and dimension a path has.
Asthe examples show, the verb is not necessarilythe place to look: most of the examples use theverb ?to go?.In fact, the information can come from variousplaces in the sentence (or the broader textualcontext: ellipsis and anaphoric relations playtheir usual roles here).
Moreover in some casesinformation about, say, the dimension can comefrom the arguments of from and to whereas inother cases this information can come from theverb.
?Widen?
for instance imposes the width-dimension but if we use the verb ?to go?
to de-scribe a widening event, the information aboutthe dimension has to come from the argumentsof from and to and the subject.Similar problems arise with respect to the de-termination of the roles.
Example 1 and 2 seemto have straightforward interpretations wherethe path role in the first case is clearly a move-ment path whereas in the second case we have todo with a stative interpretation.
At first blush,it seems that this information could be straight-forwardly lexically encoded: people move androads don?t.
But further reflection shows thatthis will not do.
Take the following example:10.
The train went from one end of the stationto the other.In this case we can have two interpretations: ei-ther the length of the train is such that it coversthat of the whole station or the train moved fromone end of the station to the other.
What is im-portant is not an intrinsic characteristic of thelexical item but whether it is appropriate for theextent (length) of its referent to be measured bythe from-to phrase.Some more or less stable relations betweensyntax and semantics can help us determinewhich analysis to give.
For instance, the startingand end points of movement paths and stativelocational paths are referential (in contradistinc-tion to those of scalar paths).
As such, they tendto be expressed by proper names or by a nounphrase with a determiner.4Manner of motion verbs are surprisingly un-informative: many of them can have a movingobject or a stationary object or a function suchas the temperature as their subject.
The combi-nations summarized in the following are all pos-sible:11.
Liz/the road/the temperaturewent/crawled/moved/meanderedfrom X to Y.With verbs of inherent directed motion, the verbcontributes a polarity for the direction but verylittle else, as example 12 illustrates:12.
Liz/the road/the temperaturedescended/climbed/ascended/fell/tumbledfrom X to Y.Again whatever information there is about thetype of path or the dimension it has to comefrom the subject or from the from-to arguments.From-to arguments can give the necessary infor-mation about the dimension (locations, money,time, degrees) but when they are scalar or tem-poral, the measurement units will often be omit-ted and the theme will indicate the dimension.Degree achievements tend to be more special-ized.
They indicate the dimension (width, tem-perature).
Lexicons can contain many of thefunction names but will not help with the casesof metonymy (where an argument is given in-stead of the name of the function itself).4There are, however, exceptions:He ran from where Bill was to where the field ends.His tattoo goes from head to toe.The path meanders from mountain to mountain.1184.1 Characterizing components of therepresentationsIn the previous subsection we have discussed dif-ferent types of from-to phrases, and the rolesthat link the elements of the representations ofthese types.
The question we address now is howwe can provide our system with the necessary in-formation to make these distinctions.
This is apreliminary investigation as yet without imple-mentation.Ideally, we would have ontologies to give usthe right characteristics of the entities underly-ing our lexical items and we would have ade-quate mappings from the lexical items to theseontologies.
These ontologies and these mappingsare currently not available.
Natural languageprocessing applications, however, have taught usthat even if humans can do surprising things andlanguage can express surprising thoughts, mostof the time, the reality that human language ex-presses is rather predictable, so that the map-ping to ontologies can up to a certain point bemimicked by probabilistic feature assignmentsto lexical items.
For ?Eric?
we can assume thatwith a high probability it will be the theme ofa movement path and whereas for ?the road?
ahigh probability assigns it as the theme of a sta-tive path.
In other cases, however, we need con-crete co-occurrence statistics to assign the rightrepresentations.
Next, we sketch a preliminaryinvestigation of some Wikipedia data that canbe brought to bear on this issue.
We indicatehow the data might help and point out some ofthe new problems it brings up.A first question that arises is of how muchpractical relevance the different types that wehave discussed are.
We looked at the first 100?went from X to Y?
sentences pulled out ofWikipedia parsed with the Stanford dependencyparser, that had the required syntactic patternand found that 61 fell into the categories de-scribed in the previous sections (gradual changeor no change in the physical domain) whereasabout 39 are clearly transformational from-to?s(for instance ?The SU-152 went from design con-cept to field trials in a record twenty-five days?
).Of these 61, 4 had temporal from-to modifiers,19 had various scales or numeric from-to mod-ifiers and 38 were locational.
Of the locationalones, 11 had a stationary reading and 17 had amovement reading.
So all the cases under dis-cussion are well represented in naturally occur-ring text.A second question is how we can obtainthe relevant features from the data.
Wesee four potential methods: (1) the charac-terization of words within existing ontologieslike WordNet (Miller, 1995), (2) the combina-tion of stated facts through reasoning, (3) co-occurrence statistics of words in text, and (4)solicitation of novel features from human anno-tators.
We illustrate these methods based onWikipedia examples.A first idea might be that there is at least astraightforward ontological characterization fordifference between the movement and the sta-tive reading: for the movement reading we re-quire living beings and for the stative readingwe require long stationary entities.
These im-pressions are, of course, not completely wrongbut in the first case, we have to include in theliving beings not only groups such as brigadesbut also ships (as in ?She went from the Red Seato the Mediterranean to relieve USS Coral Sea...?
), flights (as in ?This flight went from Spits-bergen (Svalbard) to Alaska nonstop, so thereis little doubt that they went over the NorthPole.?)
and messages (as in ?The message wentfrom the Palace in Stockholm to the King atDrottningholm.?).
And in the second categorieswe have not only roads and various transporta-tion lines but also borders (as in ?The bound-ary of Manila province went from northeast tosouthwest, ...?)
and trade routes and things suchas (rifle) suppressors as in ?The suppressor, 2inches in diameter, went all the way from theback of the barrel to well beyond the muzzle...?).
A quick inspection of WordNet shows thatthere is no interesting ancestor node that coversall the movement cases but it also suggests thata great number of the cases can be covered with?conveyance, transport?
together with ?motion,movement, move?
as well as ?organism, being?.But ?organism, being?
also covers ?plants?
and?sitter?
and ?stander?
and other subclasses that119don?t seem to be plausible candidates for themovement analysis.
There is no interesting hy-pernym for both ?road?
and ?border?
before weget to the useless level of ?object, physical ob-ject?
and no already existing ontology will helpwith the suppressor case.
Thus we might getsome data by using the first method but mostlikely not everything we want.As far as the arguments of the from-to phrasesthemselves, locations can be indicated by placenames, institution names, nouns referring to lo-cations, but also nouns referring to spatial lo-cated entities that we do not think of as loca-tions, such as parts of pieces of equipment.
Thevery limited inspection of data we have done upto now does not lead us to expect that the na-ture of the from-to arguments occurring withmovement readings is very different from thatfound with stationary readings.
In the currentstate of affairs, many of the arguments of thefrom-to phrases can be found either in gazetteersor through the analysis of a reasonably well-circumscribed spatial vocabulary.5Some cases, however, fall outside of these re-sources.
The most interesting problem is pre-sented by the reference to spatial entities thatare not clearly flagged as locations in ontologies,such as those found in the suppressor-sentence(?The suppressor, 2 inches in diameter, went allthe way from the back of the barrel to well be-yond the muzzle ...?)
above.
We admit thathis type of sentence seems to be rather rarein the Wikipedia corpus but it is problematicbecause detailed ontological representations ofeven common objects are not readily available.Wikipedia, however, has some information thatmight help one to formulate reasonable hypothe-ses about parts.
For instance, the article thatcontains the suppressor-sentence, also containsa structured specification of the carbine underdescription mentioning the barrel and the muz-zle.
Here we need to use the second method,reasoning.
The question then becomes whetherwe can find reasoning patterns that are generalenough to give interesting results.5Whereas it is possible to enumerate an extensive partof the relevant vocabulary, there is no extensive descrip-tion of meaning contribution of these elements.The third method, already demonstrated inthe context of semantic parsing (Poon andDomingos, 2009), seems also to be promising.For instance, even staying within the class ofmovement verbs, different verbs have differentsignatures that might help us with the classifi-cation of their subjects and their from-to argu-ments.
While ?go?
has indeed the wide range ofmeanings that we expected, ?run?
is rather dif-ferent: apart from three examples where ?run?refers to the movement of living beings and threereferring to vehicles moving, the other exam-ples of the combination of ?run?
with from-to fallin two classes: indications of the spatial extentof roads, railways and the like (27) and tempo-ral extensions of shows, games or strips running(16).
The nature of the corpus has certainly aninfluence here (Wikipedia does not contain nar-rative texts) but this type of information mightbe valuable to disambiguate parses: if we candistinguish the cases where ?run?
occurs withspatial extent readings and the cases where itoccurs with temporal extent meanings, we canharvest a set of possible subjects that are alsopossible subjects for the spatial extent meaningof ?go?.
The distinction between the two read-ings of ?run?
is not very difficult to make as mostof the temporal extent readings of ?run?
have atemporal from-to phrase.6A different way in which the characteristicsof specific verbs or verb argument combinationsmight at least probabilistically disambiguatepossible readings is illustrated with a differencebetween ?go?
and ?range?
with scalars.
In sec-tion 3.2, we observed that scalar ?go?
does notalways imply that there is a steady increase ordecrease over time or space.
However in all thenumerical or scalar examples except for one inour first sample, the interpretation implies such6But those readings themselves bring up a new clas-sificatory problem: most of the time the subject is anevent, a show, or a game.
However, in most cases themeaning is not that one performance of the show ran forseveral months or year but that several successive perfor-mances ran.
Moreover, the construction cannot only beused with event-referring expressions but also with enti-ties such as ?strips?.
Here we get into problems of regularpolysemy.
The treatment we have given above needs tobe complicated to take these into account.120a steady increase or decrease.
We also exam-ined the sentences with ?price ranged?
and ?pricewent?
in the whole of Wikipedia.
Unfortunatelythere are very few examples but for these, thedifference in interpretation for ?range?
and ?go?seems to hold up: all 4 examples with ?go?
hadthe interpretation of steady increase or decrease.So ?the price ranged ...?
and ?the price went ...?statistically might get a different interpretationeven if in some cases ?go?
can be synonymouswith ?range?.Finally, there is a possibility that due tosparseness some required features can neither bederived from existing ontologies nor from natu-ral language text itself.
For example, in ?The2006 Trek the Trail event was organised on theRailway Reserve Heritage Trail and went fromMundaring to Darlington?
we assume an extentinterpretation, and may thus be inclined to clas-sify all events that way.
However, in ?The caseArklow vs MacLean went all the way from theNew Zealand High Court to the Privy Councilin London.?
we assume a change interpretation(movement), although WordNet sees ?event?
asa hypernym of ?case?.
Interestingly, it is not thearguments that determine the right interpreta-tion here, but rather our distinction between dif-ferent kinds of events: those for which spatial ex-tent is important (street festivals) and those forwhich not (lawsuits).
More generally, in caseswhere we are unable to make such fine distinc-tions based on features derived from availablecorpora, we can use our fourth method, solicit-ing additional features from human annotators,to group concepts in novel ways.5 ConclusionIn this paper we first described the distinctionsthat need to be made to allow a correct in-terpretation of a subclass of from-to sentences.We then looked at the resources that are avail-able to help us guide to the correct interpreta-tion.
We distinguished four different ways toobtain the information needed: features in anexisting ontology, features statistically derivedfor the relations used with a concept, featurescomputed through reasoning and features ob-tained through human annotation.
We saw thata small, very preliminary examination of thedata suggests that the three first methods willallow us to make the right distinctions in an im-portant number of cases but that there will becases in which the fourth method, human anno-tation, will be necessary.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based in part upon work sup-ported by the Air Force Research Laboratory(AFRL) under prime contract no.
FA8750-09-C-0181.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusionor recommendations expressed in this materialare those of the author(s) and do not necessar-ily reflect the view of the Air Force ResearchLaboratory (AFRL).ReferencesDorit Abusch.
1986.
Verbs of Change, Causation,and Time.
Report CSLI, Stanford University.Daniel Bobrow, Robert Cheslow, Cleo Condoravdi,Lauri Karttunen, Tracy, Rowan Nairn, Valeriade Paiva, Lotti Price, and Annie Zaenen.
2007.PARC?s Bridge question answering system.
InProceedings of the GEAF (Grammar Engineer-ing Across Frameworks) 2007 Workshop.
Stan-ford, CA.David Dowty.
1979.
Word Meaning and MontagueGrammar: The Semantics of Verbs and Times inGenerative Semantics and in Montague?s PTQ.Springer.Jean Mark Gawron.
2005.
Generalized Paths.
SALT17.Jean Mark Gawron.
2009.
The Lexical Semantics ofExtent Verbs.Jennifer Hay, Christopher Kennedy, and Beth Levin.1999.
Scale structure underlies telicity in ?degreeachievements?.
pages 127?144.Ray Jackendoff.
1996.
The Proper Treatment ofMeasuring Out, Telicity, and Perhaps Even Quan-tification in English.
Natural Language and Lin-guistic Theory 14, pages 305?354.George A. Miller.
1995.
Wordnet: A lexicaldatabase for english.
Communications of theACM, 38(11):39?41.Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos.
2009.
Unsuper-vised semantic parsing.
In EMNLP.121
