Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 177?181,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Annotation Schema for Preposition Senses in GermanAntjeM?llerOlafH?lscherClaudiaRochKatja Ke-?elmeierTobiasStadtfeldJanStrunkTiborKissSprachwissenschaftliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit?t BochumD-44801 Bochum, Germany{mueller, roch, kesselmeier, stadtfeld, strunk, tibor}@linguistics.rub.de, olaf.huelscher@rub.deAbstractPrepositions are highly polysemous.
Yet, littleeffort has been spent to develop language-specific annotation schemata for prepositionsenses to systematically represent and analyzethe polysemy of prepositions in large corpora.In this paper, we present an annotation schemafor preposition senses in German.
The annota-tion schema includes a hierarchical taxonomyand also allows multiple annotations for indi-vidual tokens.
It is based on an analysis ofusage-based dictionaries and grammars andhas been evaluated in an inter-annotator-agreement study.1 Annotation Schemata for PrepositionSenses: A Problem to be TackledIt is common linguistic wisdom that preposi-tions are highly polysemous.
It is thus somewhatsurprising that little attention has been paid to thedevelopment of specialized annotation schematafor preposition senses.1 In the present paper, wepresent a tagset for the annotation of Germanprepositions.
The need for an annotation schemaemerged in an analysis of so-called Preposition-Noun Combinations (PNCs), sometimes calleddeterminerless PPs or bare PPs.
PNCs minimallyconsist of a preposition and a count noun in thesingular that appear without a determiner.
In (1),examples are given from German.
(1) auf parlamentarische Anfrage (after beingasked in parliament), bei absolut klarer Ziel-setzung (given a clearly present aim), untersanfter Androhung (under gentle threat)The preposition-sense annotation forms part of alarger annotation task of the corpus, where all1  The Preposition Project is a notable exception (cf.www.clres.com/prepositions.html).relevant properties of PPs and PNCs receive eitherautomated or manual annotations.
In developingan annotation schema for preposition senses, wepursue two general goals:I.
An annotation schema for preposition sensesshould provide a basis for manual annotationof a corpus to determine whether the interpre-tation of prepositions is a grammatical factor.II.
The preposition sense annotations togetherwith the other annotations of the corpusshould serve as a reference for the automaticclassification of preposition senses.With regard to the goals formulated, the presentpaper is an intermediate report.
The annotationschema has been developed and the manual anno-tation of the corpus is well under way.
The nextlogical steps will be to apply the annotations to awider range of prepositions and eventually to usethe annotated corpus for an automated classifica-tion system for preposition senses.As PNCs form the basic rationale for the currentinvestigation, we are only considering prepositionsthat occur in PPs and PNCs in German.
We thussystematically exclude prepositions that do nottake an NP complement, postpositions, and com-plex prepositions.
Thus, the sense annotation forprepositions currently comprises the following 22simple prepositions in German:(2) an, auf, bei, dank, durch, f?r, gegen, gem?
?,hinter, in, mit, mittels, nach, neben, ohne, seit,?ber, um, unter, vor, w?hrend, wegenAs empirical base of the analysis, we use a SwissGerman newspaper corpus, which contains about230 million tokens (Neue Z?rcher Zeitung 1993-1999).The remaining paper is structured as follows:Section 2 is devoted to the characteristics of theannotation schema.
In section 3, we present ananalysis of the schema in terms of inter-annotator177agreement.
It takes into account that the annotationschema is hierarchically ordered and allows formultiple annotations.
Section 4 illustrates the ap-plication of the schema to the preposition ohne(?without?)
in German.2 Properties of the Annotation SchemaThere are no standardized features for an anno-tation of preposition senses in German.
Our workis thus based on several reference works, which weanalyzed and combined to develop the schema,namely Duden Deutsch als Fremdsprache (Duden,2002) (a dictionary of German for foreign learn-ers), Deutsche Grammatik from Helbig andBuscha (2001) (a grammar of German for foreignlearners) (both usage-based), the LexikonDeutscher Pr?positionen (Schr?der, 1986) (a dic-tionary of German prepositions) and an analysis ofprepositions with a temporal meaning (Durell andBr?e, 1993).
Prima facie, the dictionary of Germanprepositions appears to be the most promisingstarting point because it includes a fine-grainedfeature-based analysis of preposition senses.
How-ever, it turns out that it is too complex for manualannotation, making use of more than 200 binaryfeatures to classify preposition meanings.The annotation schema shows a hierarchicallyorganized, tree-like structure.
Beginning with aroot node, types of preposition meanings branch tosubtrees for different classes (e.g.
local, temporalor causal) with differing depths or to individual,non-splitting branches (see Figure 1).
For temporaland spatial interpretations, we use decision treesthat help to guide the annotator through the anno-tation process.Altogether the annotation schema includes thefollowing list of top-level categories: SPATIAL,TEMPORAL, MODAL, CAUSAL, STATE, COMMUNAL-ITY/COMMUTATIVE, TRANSGRESSION, AGENT,REDUCTION/EXTENSION, PARTICIPATION, SUBOR-DINATION, RECIPIENT, AFFILIATION, CORRELA-TION/INTERACTION, ORDER, THEME, SUBSTITUTE,EXCHANGE, COMPARISON, RESTRICTIVE, COPULA-TIVE, ADVERSATIVE, DISTRIBUTIVE, STATE-MENT/OPINION, EXISTENCE/PRESENCE, CENTRE OFREFERENCE, and REALIZATION.The schema allows cross-classification at everylevel.
This is of particular importance for the clas-sification of directional meanings.
Directionality isintroduced through cross-classification and notthrough copying the hierarchical structure of thelocal subtree.2Another important property of the annotationschema is the possibility of multiple annotationsfor one preposition in context.
For instance, a finaldistinction between a temporal and a causal inter-pretation cannot be drawn in example (3).2 During annotation, local and directional interpretations canbe distinguished by case assignment in the majority of cases.
(3) Feuer nach [temporal/causal] Blitzschlag?Fire after/because of lightning stroke?In addition to the semantic categories, we use afeature ?governed?
to label a preposition as gov-erned by a lexical head whenever appropriate.Governed prepositions usually are assumed to besemantically empty but in some cases there is adiscernible meaning for the preposition despite itsbeing governed.The preposition sense annotation is only onepart of a bigger annotation project.
Annotations onlexical (POS, morphology, countability, preposi-tion meaning, noun meaning), syntactic (chunks),relational (internal and external dependencies), andFigure 1: Hierarchical Annotation Schema178?
?global (e.g.
marking as a headline or part of a TVprogram in a newspaper, idiomaticity, telegraphicstyle) levels will serve as a basis for annotationmining to detect licensing conditions of PNCs.3 An Analysis of Inter-AnnotatorAgreement  in a Hierarchical Annota-tion SchemaA weighted kappa statistic (?)
forms a standardfor assessing the feasibility of annotation sche-mata.
Based on Cohen?s seminal work (Cohen,1968), Artstein and Poesio (2008) suggest themeasure in (4), where ?
is calculated as theweighted difference between observed and ex-pected disagreement.
(4)      = 1 ?
Two aspects of the present annotation schemaprohibit a direct application of this statistic.
First,the annotation schema makes use of a hierarchywith subtypes, which leads to overlapping annota-tion categories.
As an illustration, assume that oneannotator has annotated a given preposition withthe sense PRESENCE, while a second annotatormakes use of the annotation ANALYTIC, the latterbeing a subtype of the first.
Secondly, the annota-tion schema allows more than one annotation forthe same token, to cover cases where an ambigu-ous interpretation cannot be maximally reduced, asin (4).To deal with the first problem, the hierarchicalstructure of the annotation schema is included inthe calculation of the weight coefficients for ?.Basically, two annotations are more closely relatedif either both annotations are dominated by thesame set of nodes in the hierarchy, or one annota-tion is a direct subtype of the other one (as usual,we assume domination to be reflexive).
Accord-ingly, the weight coefficient for a given disagree-ment is reduced in relation to the depth of embed-ding of the subcategories, based on the cardinalityof the set of nodes that dominate both categories.As an illustration consider two senses A and Bin the following configurations: a) A and B aredirectly dominated by C, a subtype of ROOT; b) Adominates B, A being a subtype of ROOT, and c)ROOT directly dominates A and C, and B is a sub-type of C. Intuitively, c) is a case of clear dis-agreement, while in b) we find that one annotationis more specific than the other one, and in a), theannotators have at least agreed in a common super-type of the categories.Consequently, the weight coefficient for dis-agreement should be highest in case c), but shouldbe similar in cases a) and b).
(5)a) b) c)The weight coefficient is determined by the fol-lowing formula, wheredesignates the depthof the lowest common dominating node of the twosenses (and hence the cardinality of the set ofdominating nodes minus 1).
(6)=  ,    ?
0,   =  For the configuration a), the number of domi-nating nodes equals 2.
Thusequals 1, result-ing in a weight coefficient of 0.5.
For the configu-ration b), the cardinality of dominating nodes alsoequals 2, and again the weight coefficient is de-termined as 0.5.
For c), however, the set of domi-nating nodes only contains ROOT, and conse-quently, the weight is determined as 1/20 = 1.3With regard to multiple annotations, we definenew categories consisting of the combination ofthe used categories.
To calculate the weight ofdisagreement between two combined categories,we compute the weights of all ordered pairs fromthe Cartesian product of the relevant categoriesand then calculate the arithmetic mean.
As an il-lustration consider the following configuration:one annotator has assigned the senses A and B to agiven preposition, where A and B are subtypes ofC, while the second annotator has assigned B only.In this case, we determine the sum of disagreementbetween A and B and A and A, respectively, anddivide it by the number of possible combinations(two in the present case).
The following formulacaptures this idea.
(7)= || ?
??
?Now, instead of determining the ?
statistic onthe basis of non-overlapping, i.e.
mutually exclu-3 As we assume that dominance is reflexive, each supertypeis a supertype of itself.
Hence, the weights determined forthe cases (5a) and (5b) are identical because A is a directsupertype of B.
This would be different if A were an indi-rect supertype of B.179?
?sive categories, the weights are determined bytaking the tree structure into account.
Based on theweighted kappa statistic, we have carried out anevaluation based on 1.336 annotated examples ofthe prepositions an, auf, bei, neben, unter, and vor.The following table summarizes the results for thefull set of sense annotations, for senses with sub-types (local, temporal, causal, modal), as well asfor some individual senses.Table 1: Subset of Weighted Kappa-valuessubtree with the following root node !
"ROOT 0.644local 0.709causal 0.575modal 0.551temporal 0.860local_reference_plane 0.569temporal_M=S_S=PERIOD 0.860The overall result of 0.644 provides support forthe general feasibility of the annotation schema,and the results for local and temporal senses areparticularly promising.
The results for modal andcausal senses, however, indicate the necessity totake a look at the data again and to identify sourcesof error.4 Criteria for annotating ohne (?with-out?
)The preposition ohne (?without?)
allows six dif-ferent interpretations at top level, among them arethe interpretations PRESENCE, COMITATIVE, andPARTICIPATION.
The rule guided nature of the an-notation schema will be illustrated by the follow-ing examples:(8) Die Anklage        wirft       dem ersten vonThe prosecution accuses the first    ofdrei Angeklagten, einem 32j?hrigen    Mannthree accused        a          32-year-old   manohne      Beruf,         die Mitwirkung   anwithout profession   the involvement  atallen drei  T?tungsdelikten vor.all     three homicides          PTKVZ"The prosecution accuses the first of threedefendants, a 32 years old man without aprofession, of the involvement in all threehomicides.
"(9) Ein mobiles Einsatzkommando ?berw?ltigteA  mobile    task force       defeatedden Geiselnehmer, als     er ohne      dasthe hostage-taker,  when he without theKind den Gerichtssaal verlie?.child the  court room     left.
"A mobile task force defeated the hostage-taker, when he left the court room withoutthe child.
"(10) Ein monet?rer Schulterschluss  ohne    dasA   monetary closing of ranks without thewestliche 5achbarland           w?re   nichtwestern  neighboring country would be notnur   in Paris undenkbar.only in Paris unthinkable.
"A monetary closing of ranks without in-volving the western neighbor would be un-thinkable not only in Paris.
"PARTICIPATION is defined as active or passiveparticipation in an activity; COMITATIVE is de-fined as an abstract coactivity of two individualsor objects.
PRESENCE, finally, characterizes thepresence of an object or a property.
With regardto ohne, the features have to be negated, i.e.
de-noting a lack of participation, co-activity, orabsence of a feature.
From the definition, it al-ready follows that the external argument of a Pwith the interpretations PARTICIPATION or COM-ITATIVE is presumably event-like, but object-likewith PRESENCE.
COMITATIVE and PARTICIPA-TION, finally, are distinguished by the mutualitypresent in COMITATIVE, which is not present withPARTICIPATION, giving rise to an assignment ofPRESENCE in (8), COMITATIVE in (9), and PAR-TICIPATION in (10).5 ConclusionWe have presented an annotation schema forpreposition senses in German that is based on us-age-based grammars and dictionaries.
It comprisesa restricted set of less than 30 top level sense cate-gories, and allows for multiple annotations of indi-vidual token if a maximal sense reduction cannotbe achieved.
The categories local, temporal,causal, modal and presence introduce hierarchicalsubtypes, access to the subtypes is partially guidedby decision trees in the annotation process.
Thehierarchical structure of the annotation schema isalso reflected in its validation in terms of inter-annotator agreement.
Here, it became necessary tomodify Cohen's ?
to allow for overlapping catego-ries and multiple annotations.
The results reportedhere show that the schema is feasible for manualannotation of preposition senses.180?
?ReferencesRon Artstein and Massimo Poesio.
2008.
Inter-coderagreement for computational linguistics.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 34 (4): 555-596.Timothy Baldwin et al 2006.
In search of a systemat-ic treatment of determinerless PPs.
In PatrickSaint-Dizier (ed.
), Syntax and Semantics of Prepo-sitions.
Springer, Dordrecht, 163-179.Christian Chiarcos, Stefanie Dipper, Michael G?tze,Ulf Leser, Anke L?deling, Julia Ritz, and ManfredStede.
2008.
A flexible framework for integratingannotations from different tools and tagsets.Traitement Automatique des Langues.
Special Is-sue Platforms for Natural Language Processing.ATALA, 49 (2).Jacob Cohen.
1968.
Weighted kappa: nominal scaleagreement with provision for scaled disagreementor partial credit.
Psychological bulletin, 70 (4):213-220.Florian D?mges, Tibor Kiss, Antje M?ller and Clau-dia Roch.
2007.
Measuring the Productivity of De-terminerless PPs.
Proceedings of the ACL 2007Workshop on Prepositions, Prague, 31-37.Duden.
2002.
Duden.
Deutsch als Fremdsprache.Bibliographisches Institut and F.A.
Brockhaus AG,Mannheim.Duden.
2005.
Duden.
Die Grammatik.
Duden Band 4.Bibliographisches Institut & F.A.
Brockhaus AG,Mannheim.Martin Durell and David Br?e.
1993.
German tempor-al prepositions from an English perspective.
InCornelia Zelinsky-Wibbelt (ed.
), The Semantics ofPrepositions.
From Mental Processing to 5aturalLanguage Processing.
De Gruyter, Berlin/NewYork, 295-325.Gerhard Helbig and Joachim Buscha.
2001.
DeutscheGrammatik.
Ein Handbuch f?r den Ausl?nderun-terricht.
Leipzig, Langenscheidt.Jochen Schr?der.
1986.
Lexikon deutscher Pr?positi-onen.
Leipzig, VEB Verlag Enzyklop?die.Laurel S. Stvan.
1998.
The Semantics and Pragmaticsof Bare Singular 5oun Phrases.
Ph.D. thesis,Northwestern University, Evanston/ Chicago, IL.181
