Space Characters in Chinese Semi-structured TextsRongzhou ShenSchool of InformaticsUniversity of Edinburghrshen@inf.ed.ac.ukClaire GroverSchool of InformaticsUniversity of Edinburghgrover@inf.ed.ac.ukEwan KleinSchool of InformaticsUniversity of Edinburghewan@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractSpace characters can have an important rolein disambiguating text.
However, few, ifany, Chinese information extraction systemsmake full use of space characters.
However,it seems that treatment of space charactersis necessary, especially in cases of extract-ing information from semi-structured docu-ments.
This investigation aims to addressthe importance of space characters in Chi-nese information extraction by parsing somesemi-structured documents with two simi-lar grammars - one with treatment for spacecharacters, the other ignoring it.
This paperalso introduces two post processing filtersto further improve treatment of space char-acters.
Results show that the grammar thattakes account of spaces clearly out-performsthe one that ignores them, and so concludesthat space characters can play a useful role ininformation extraction.1 IntroductionIt is well known that a snippet of text in Chi-nese (or some other oriental languages) consists ofa span of continuous characters without delimitingwhite spaces to identify words.
Therefore, most pars-ing systems do not make full use of space charac-ters when parsing.
Furthermore, even though Latin-based languages such as English have delimitingwhite spaces between words, most systems treat themas no more than delimiting characters.
Therefore,space characters are usually stripped out of the textbefore processing.However, this is intuitively wrong.
(Rus andSummers, 1994) stated that ?the non-textual con-tent of documents complement the textual content andshould play an equal role?.
This paper shows thatspace character plays an equal role as the textual con-tent, where it can be used not only to construct a cer-tain layout, but also to signal a certain syntactic struc-ture.
Some researchers have been seen to make use ofspace characters, but they mainly use spaces to cre-ate or recognise certain special layouts.
For example,(Rus and Summers, 1994) used white spaces to refor-mat documents into somewhat structured styles; (Nget al, 1999) and (Hurst and Nasukawa, 2000) usedspaces to recognise tables in free text.
Wrapper gen-eration is more related to our research since it useslayout to extract structured content from documents(Irmak and Suel, 2006; Chen et al, 2003).
How-ever, wrapper generation is too high level, this paperis aimed at exploring the effects of space charactersat a lower level.In this paper, we focus on semi-structured doc-uments (in our case, real-world Chinese CurriculaVitae), since these types of documents tend to con-tain more space layout information.
This paper isintended to address the importance of space charac-ters not only in layout extraction, but also in infor-mation extraction.
To do so, Daxtra Technologies?grammar formalism and their additional elements forbasic space character treatment is introduced 1.
Thenan improved treatment plan is given for further dis-ambiguation.
Finally, we perform evaluation of thetools on a set of real-world CVs and give proposalsfor future work.2 Space CharactersA space character, when considered as punctu-ation, is a blank area devoid of content, serving toseparate words, letters, numbers and other punctu-ation.
(Jones, 1994) found broadly three types ofpunctuation marks: delimiting, separating and dis-ambiguating.
Similarly, space characters have threedifferent functionalities: delimiting, structuring anddisambiguating.Space characters are natural delimiters in somelanguages.
In English and many other Latin-basedlanguages for example, spaces are used for separat-ing words and certain punctuation marks (e.g.
periodand colon).
However, in formal Chinese typesetting,spaces are not used to delimit words or characters.Hence the need for automatic word segmentation sys-tems (Zhang et al, 2003).
The current segmenta-tion systems mainly focus on resolving ambiguitiesand detecting new words in segmenting text with nospaces (Gao et al, 2005).
However, ambiguities canbe caused not only by characters themselves, but alsothe spaces and layout around them.
The paper willlater demonstrate this in terms of recognising entities,but the same should apply to segmentation.Therefore, Chinese documents can have whitespaces, it is up to the author of the document to de-cide when to use spaces, which makes dealing withpeople?s spacing habits one of the reasons to includetreatment of space characters in linguistic systems.Structuring refers to space characters being usedfor layout purposes.
For example, spaces and tabscan be used to create tables, putting spaces in front1Daxtra Technologies provides software for re-sume/CV parsing and extraction for candidate acquisition:http://www.daxtra.comof a piece of text means to start a new paragraphetc.
In some cases, such structuring space charactersrepresent a relation between the elements that thespaces are delimiting.
For the following example,each line contains a label and a value separated usingspaces to create a table.??
(Name) ?????
(Age) 25?Email li25@gmail.com??
(Place of Birth) ?
?Disambiguating spaces occur where an unintentionalambiguity could result if the spaces were not there.Two types of ambiguities are usually caused by ig-noring the effect of white space:Overlapping Ambiguity, where a set of tokens caneither be appended to the previous set of tokensto form an entity, or precede the next set of to-kens to form a different entity.
For example, in aChinese CV?s job history section, the followingtwo situations could occur:1999?10?1 ?????
?1999.10.1 A Japanese Company Ac-countant1999?10?1?
????
?1999.10.1 Accountant in this com-panyIn the above example, two spans of text use ex-actly the same set of characters, but since thespace is not in the same place, they have differ-ent meanings.
Thus ignoring white space in thiscase could result in an overlapping ambiguity.Combinatorial Ambiguity, where two sets of to-kens can either be joined to form a single entity,or be separated to form two different entities.For example, ???
???
could mean Man-ager Assistant when joined together, or sincethere are spaces in between the two words ????
and ???
?, they could also mean Managerand Assistant.3 Basic Space Character TreatmentDaxtra Technologies?
parsing system is a gram-mar formalism used to develop grammatical rules forrecognising Named Entities and Relations.
The sys-tem is based on context free grammar, but includesadditional elements for integrating linguistic infor-mation (e.g.
grammar and lexicon) and layout infor-mation (e.g.
space characters) to parse structured andunstructured text.
Along with parsing the text, theparser also labels the matched text with XML tags.A typical Daxtra grammar rule looks like thefollowing:: person =person-firstname+ person-lastname !ATTACHED_L: person =person-firstname+ person-midname !ATTACHED_L+ person-lastname !ATTACHED_LAs the above example illustrates, a rule beginswith a colon and the rule?s name.
For example, con-sider the following two person names:Rongzhou ShenAndrew Peter Bakerassuming that ?Rongzhou Shen?
matches the firstrule and ?Andrew Peter Baker?
matches the secondrule, then both will be surrouned by <person>XML tags.Contents following the equal sign are a combi-nation of other defined grammar rule names or lex-icon names to build up the body of the personrules.
Thus, for the first person rule to match apiece of text, the sub contents of the text must matchperson-firstname and person-lastnamein the order given.
Any other contents between a righthand side rule name and its XML tag replacement(i.e.
the square bracketed contents) are attributes at-tached to the rule.
These attributes include layout in-formation.For describing layout information, the Dax-tra grammar formalism offers three types ofspace grammar rule: ATTACHED (ATTACHED L,ATTACHED R), TABULATION (TABULATION L,TABULATION M, TABULATION R) andLINEBREAK (LINEBREAK L, LINEBREAK M,LINEBREAK R).ATTACHED This attribute checks the matching con-tents of the attached rule for surroundingspaces.
Accordingly, ATTACHED L detectsspaces on the left of the matching contents, andATTACHED R detects spaces on the right of thematching contents.TABULATION Similar to ATTACHED, this checksfor tabulation characters in the matching con-tents.
TABULATION L, TABULATION M andTABULATION R checks for tabulations before,inside or after the matching text respectively.
Atabulation is either a tab character or a span ofmore than three continuous white spaces.LINEBREAK As the name suggests, this at-tribute checks for line breaks in the match-ing text.
LINEBREAK L, LINEBREAK M andLINEBREAK R checks for line breaks before,inside or after the matching text respectively.4 Improved AlgorithmAlthough the Daxtra grammar formalism offersa full range of space layout descriptors, questions stillarise.
Consider the job history examples in Table 1.The first one would parse correctly with some sim-ple grammar such as the following (assuming that wehave all the needed lexicons):: history = date-range !ATTACHED_R+ company !ATTACHED_R+ occupation !ATTACHED_R+ occupationHowever, the same rule would become ambigu-ous for the second example, where there is a spaceOriginal 1999 - 2000 3CR Health Beauty International Ltd.
????
???
?Translation 1999 - 2000 3CR Health Beauty International Ltd. Assis.
Manager Assis.
AccountantOriginal 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
??
??
?
?Translation 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
Manager Assistant AccountantTable 1: An example job history section in a CV filebetween ????
(Manager) and ????
(Assistant).In such a case, two matches are found, as shown inTable 2.We may notice that the word ????
(Assistant)is closer to the word ????
(Manager) than the word????
(Accountant), hence the correct entities be-ing ??????
(Manager Assistant) and ????(Accountant).
If on the other hand, there were morespaces between ????
(Manager) and ????
(As-sistant) than ????
(Assistant) and ????
(Accoun-tant), we may infer that the entities would be ????
(Manager) and ??????
(Assistant Accountant).Therefore, more control is needed for incorpo-rating space layout information.
For example, theproblem in Table 2 can be resolved by comparingthe number of spaces between the words.
To do so,we replaced the spaces with XML tags with an at-tribute indicating the number of spaces replaced.
Forexample, a span of four spaces will become: <wspaces=?4?
/>.
Based on such a transformation,we came up with the following post-processing filtersfor resolving ambiguities and other errors caused byspace characters:Filter least-space For different matches of the samerule, always choose the match that has the leastnumber of spaces inside the entities.For example, consider the two cases in Table 3.They both have exactly the same set of charac-ters, but are in fact two different combinations,as indicated by the translations in the table.Assuming that a simple rule like the following isused to match both the job histories:: history = date !ATTACHED_R+ company+ occupationThen for (1) in Table 3, the two possible matchesare shown in Table 4.Therefore, the first match yields a total of onespace inside the entities (between ???
and???
), while the second match yields threespaces (between ???
and ??????).
Thusthe first match is chosen.Similarly for (2) in Table 3, there are two pos-sible matches (see Table 5), in which the firsthas four spaces inside the entities and the sec-ond has two spaces, so the system chooses thesecond match.Filter equal-space For a parsing with only one pos-sible match, check whether the entity containsan unequal number of spaces between charac-ters.For example, ???????
?????
(Chinese Accountant Regulations Listed Com-pany) can be recognised by the system as acompany entity, but it is in fact not.
Thus inthis case, the filter equal-space will reject it -there are no spaces between the first six charac-ters, but two spaces appear after them, so the twospaces are not considered as part of an entity.5 EvaluationThe evaluation data is a set of entities extractedfrom 314 real world CVs.
The original CVs wereall MS Word files, then converted to plain text usingOriginal 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
??
??
?
?Translation 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
Manager Assistant AccountantMatch 1 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
??
???
?Translation 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
Manager Assistant AccountantMatch 2 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
????
?
?Translation 1995 - 1997 EMaiMai.com Hong Kong Ltd.
Manager Assistant AccountantTable 2: The second example?s two matching variantsOriginal (1) 2002?
?
??????????
?Translated 2002 Winter P&G Global Accountant and FinanceOriginal (2) 2002?
?
?
?
????????
?Translated 2002 Dong Bao Jie Company Global Accountant and FinanceTable 3: Examples showing two different combinations using the same set of characters.
(Note: ?DongBao-Jie?
and ?Winter P&G?
have the same characters in Chinese.Match 1 2002?
?
????
??????
?Translation 2002 Winter P&G Company Global Accountant and FinanceMatch 2 2002?
?
????
??????
?Translation 2002 Dong BaoJie Company Global Accountant and FinanceTable 4: Two possible matches of (1) in Table 3Match 1 2002?
?
?
???
??????
?Translation 2002 Winter P &G Company Global Accountant and FinanceMatch 2 2002?
?
?
???
??????
?Translation 2002 Dong Bao Jie Company Global Accountant and FinanceTable 5: Two possible matches of (2) in Table 3wvWare 2.
The converted files were all encoded us-ing UTF-8.
To demonstrate generality of the rulesand filters, the selected CVs included differents kindsof layout, among which plain paragraphs, tables andlists are the most common.
Table 6 shows the typesof entities extracted.To evaluate the effect of the different treatmentsof space characters, four sets of data were prepared,Table 7 shows the list of data.For annotating the gold set, we performednamed entity recognition using the latest grammar2wvWare is an opensource project for accessing andconverting MS Word files: http://wvware.sourceforge.net/rules, then hand corrected the mistakes to produce agold data set.
For evaluation method, we used thestandard Precision/Recall/F-score measures.
To com-pute the standard measures, the XML output from theoriginal parsed texts are converted to a CoNLL styleformat.
For the example in Table 8, the convertedCoNLL format looks like Figure 1.5.1 The ResultsA total of 24,434 entities were annotated in thegold set, Table 9 shows the distribution of the entitytypes among the whole set of entities.After running each version of the grammar (i.e.Baseline, Version 1, Version 2) on the whole set ofNumber of cor-rectly labeledcharactersNumber of goldannotated charac-tersNumber of sys-tem annotatedcharactersPrecision(%)Recall(%)F1 (%)Baseline 272901 302491 321059 85.00 90.22 87.53Version 1 285736 302491 305339 93.58 94.46 94.02Version 2 287365 302491 303948 94.54 95.00 94.77Table 10: Results of each version computed against the gold data setEntity Type Examplesdate 1990?10?1?, 1990.10.01date-range 1998/10/1 - 1999/10/1company ??????????
(ZhongxinIndustrial Bank Shanghai Branch)occupation ?
?
(Accountant), ?
?
??
(Manager Assistant)person ???
(Shen Rongzhou)educational ?????
(University of Edin-burgh),????
(University of Na-tional Defenses)degree ??
(Bachelor), ????
(MastersDegree)subject ??
(Physics), ????
(PhysicalChemistry)Table 6: Types of named entities extracted from CVs.Data name DescriptionGold Human annotated dataBaseline Daxtra grammar without space at-tributesVersion 1 Daxtra grammar with space at-tributesVersion 2 Daxtra grammar with space at-tributes and least-space filter andequal-space filter.Table 7: The four sets of data preparedCVs and converting the XML output into CoNLL for-mat, there were a total of four sets of result files (in-cluding Gold annotated data set) and 1256 result filesin total (one result file per CV).
We then performedText ?
?
???
??????
?Translation Dong Bao Jie Company GlobalAccountant and FinanceRule : history = company + occupationTable 8: A sample text and its matching rule?
B-company#space I-company?
I-company#space I-company?
I-company?
I-company?
I-company#space O?
B-occupation?
I-occupation?
I-occupation?
I-occupation?
I-occupation?
I-occupation?
I-occupationFigure 1: The converted CoNLL style format for Ta-ble 8pair-wise comparisons of the result files from eachversion with the result files in the gold data set.
Table10 shows the final results.As can be seen from Table 10, Version 1 is agreat improvement over the Baseline in that both F1score and precision increased by over 6%, while re-call rose by 4.24%.
This strongly indicates that theimportance of space layout information is not to beEntity Type Total Numberdate 10006date-range 166company 5456occupation 3993person 783educational 1686degree 1039subject 1305Total 24434Table 9: Distribution of entity types in the CVsneglected in named entity recognition tasks.
A muchlower number of system annotated characters for Ver-sion 1 shows that the layout information is disam-biguating multiple matches, thus rejecting many pre-dictions.Although not as significant, Version 2 has stillgained an improvement on performance over Version1 by 0.75% in F1 score.
A lower number of pre-dicted annotations and a higher number of correctlypredicted annotations both indicate more ambiguitieshave been resolved as a result.Further investigations into the errors made bythe Baseline showed that most ambiguities were over-lapping ambiguities (over 90%).
A possible reasonfor the smaller number of combinatorial ambiguitiescould be that people tend to be careful in writingtheir CVs, and tend to disambiguate entities by them-selves.
For example, instead of writing ???
??
?, separating the two words using a space, peoplewill use punctuation marks to divide them.
Further-more, the case where people put spaces between eachcharacter wasn?t so often seen: there were 16 CVs intotal where such a case was found.
Thus filter equal-space did not disambiguate many.Further dividing the results down into smallerparts, we found that most of the ambiguities in theBaseline came from company, educational, occupa-tion and subject names.
This has two main causes:(1) These entities?
grammar contain many generativerules, so ambiguities can not be avoided; (2) The con-text around these entities contain the most layout in-formation (e.g.
job history, educational history).
Dateand date-range entities were not affected so much bythe layout information since they are straightforwardto recognise.
However, there was one case where theBaseline predicted a date wrongly:1995?1?1?
?1997?1?1 ???????????
?1995.1.1 - 1997.1.1 Japan SakuraBank Shanghai BranchThe Baseline version predicted ?1997?1?1??
as a single entity of type date.
This is obviouslya human typing error, where the author missed out???
on the end of the date.
This error was later fixedby Version 1.From to the above discussion, we may know thatleast-space is mainly targeted at resolving overlap-ping ambiguities (which account for more than 90%of the ambiguities found), thus making it the moresignificant filter of the two.Although Version 1 and Version 2 both had im-provements over the Baseline, many errors still occurand they are categorized as follows:?
Rejections caused by filter equal-space were infact real entities, uneven spaces in the entitieswere mostly human typing error;?
Choices made by filter least-space were occa-sionally wrong.
This happens most often whentwo matches have a very small difference in thenumber of spaces inside entities;?
Grammars either overgenerate (cause plain to-kens to be predicted as entities) or undergenerate(cause entities to be not detected);?
Lack of lexicon.6 ConclusionThis paper has attempted to address the impor-tance of space characters in Chinese linguistic pars-ing or information extraction in semi-structured doc-uments.
Essentially, space characters can contributeto the syntactic structure of texts and should not beonly treated as delimiters or be stripped out of thedocument.
This is especially true for semi-structureddocuments such as CVs.As our results indicate, integrating simple layoutinformation with linguistic grammars can greatly im-prove the performance of information extraction.
Afurther improvement can be achieved using the twofilters introduced in the fourth section.Although Daxtra?s grammar formalism is cho-sen as the tool for information extraction, since it al-ready includes treatment of space characters, othertools are also available to carry out the same job.For example, Edinburgh University Language Tech-nology Group?s LT-TTT2 (Grover and Tobin, 2006)3.Our paper focuses mainly on Chinese CVs, butspace layout information can be used widely in otherlanguages and documents.
In English for exam-ple, although words are separated by a single space,spaces are not always used as delimiters (e.g.
con-structing tables, columns), thus providing the needfor integrating space layout.
In terms of documenttypes, plain paragraph based text (e.g.
articles, blogsetc.)
may not be affected too much by space char-acters, but integrating space layout information inparsing these documents should not decrease perfor-mance either.
Furthermore, semi-structured docu-ments may not be just limited to CVs: people?s onlineportfolios, advertisements etc.
all have space layoutinformation attached.
Therefore, much investigationstill needs to be done on the effect of space charactersin different types of documents.ReferencesChen, Liangyou, Hasan M. Jamil, and Nan Wang.2003.
Automatic wrapper generation for semi-structured biological data based on table struc-ture identification.
Database and Expert Sys-3http://www.ltg.ed.ac.uk/software/lt-ttt2tems Applications, International Workshop on,0:55.Gao, Jiangfeng, Mu Li, Andi Wu, and Chang-NingHuang.
2005.
Chinese Word Segmentation andNamed Entity Recognition: A Pragmatic Ap-proach.
Computational Linguistics, 31(4):531?
574.Grover, Claire and Richard Tobin.
2006.
Rule-basedchunking and reusability.
In Proceedings of theFifth International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC 2006), Genoa,Italy.Hurst, Matthew and Tetsuya Nasukawa.
2000.
Lay-out and Language: Integrating Spatial and Lin-guistic Knowledge for Layout UnderstandingTasks.
In Proceedings of COLING, pages 334?
340.Irmak, Utku and Torsten Suel.
2006.
InteractiveWrapper Generation with Minimal User Effort.In Proceedings of the 15th International Confer-ence on World Wide Web, pages 553 ?
563.Jones, Bernard.
1994.
Exploring The Role of Punc-tuation in Parsing Natural Text.
In Proceedingsof 15th Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, pages 421 ?
425.Ng, Hwee Tou, Chung Yong Lim, and Jessica Li TengKoo.
1999.
Learning to Recognize Tables inFree Text.
In Proceedings of the 37th annualmeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics on Computational Linguistics, pages443 ?
450.Rus, Daniela and Kristen Summers.
1994.
UsingWhite Space for Automated Document Structur-ing.
Technical Report TR94-1452, Cornell Uni-versity, Department of Computer Science, July.Zhang, Hua-Ping, Hong-Kui Yu, De-Yi Xiong, andQun Liu.
2003.
HMM-based Chinese LexicalAnalyzer ICTCLAS.
In Proceedings of the Sec-ond SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese LanguageProcessing, pages 184 ?
187.
