Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 209?212,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsRepresenting Uncertainty about Complex User Goals in StatisticalDialogue SystemsPaul A. CrookInteraction LabHeriot-Watt UniversityEdinburgh, United Kingdomp.a.crook@hw.ac.ukOliver LemonInteraction LabHeriot-Watt UniversityEdinburgh, United Kingdomo.lemon@hw.ac.ukAbstractWe point out several problems in scaling-up statistical approaches to spoken dia-logue systems to enable them to deal withcomplex but natural user goals, such asdisjunctive and negated goals and prefer-ences.
In particular, we explore restric-tions imposed by current independence as-sumptions in POMDP dialogue models.This position paper proposes the use ofAutomatic Belief Compression methods toremedy these problems.1 IntroductionOne of the main problems for a spoken dia-logue system is to determine the user?s goal (e.g.plan suitable meeting times or find a good Indianrestaurant nearby) under uncertainty, and therebyto compute the optimal next system dialogue ac-tion (e.g.
offer a restaurant, ask for clarification).Recent research in statistical spoken dialogue sys-tems (SSDS) has successfully addressed aspects ofthese problems through the application of PartiallyObservable Markov Decision Process (POMDP)approaches (Thomson and Young, 2010; Young etal., 2010).
However POMDP SSDS are currentlylimited by an impoverished representation of usergoals adopted to enable tractable learning.Current POMDP SSDS state approximationsmake it impossible to represent some plausibleuser goals, e.g.
someone who wants to know aboutnearby cheap restaurants and high-quality onesfurther away, or wants to schedule a meeting any-time this week except monday afternoon (also seeExamples in Tables 1?3).
This renders dialoguemanagement sub-optimal and makes it impossi-ble to deal adequately with the following types ofuser utterance: ?I?m looking for French or Ital-ian food?, or ?Not Italian, unless it?s expensive?.User utterances with negations and disjunctions ofvarious sorts are very natural, and exploit the fullpower of natural language input.
Moreover, workin dialogue system evaluation, e.g.
(Walker et al,2004; Lemon et al, 2006), shows that real usergoals are generally sets of items with different fea-tures, rather than a single item.
People like to ex-plore possible trade offs between features of items.A central challenge for the field of spoken di-alogue systems is therefore to: develop realisticlarge-scale statistical approaches with an accurate,extended representation of user goals.In this paper we propose that the independenceassumptions that have guided POMDP SSDS de-sign to date should be relaxed, user goal setsshould be introduced and that the subsequent ex-plosion in the size of the state space should bedealt with by employing Automatic Belief Com-pression (ABC) techniques.2 POMDP SSDSPartially Observable Markov Decision Processes(POMDPs) are Markov Decision Processes wherethe system?s state is only partially observable, i.e.there is uncertainty as to what the true state is.The ability to account for uncertainty is crucial forspoken dialogue systems because their knowledgeabout the state is uncertain due to speech recogni-tion errors and the fact that the user?s goals are notdirectly observable.
In POMDP models of spo-ken dialogue (Williams and Young, 2005; Thom-son and Young, 2010; Young et al, 2010) the dia-logue policy (what the system should say next) isbased not on a single view of the current state ofthe conversation, but on a probability distributionover all possible states of the conversation.
Theoptimal POMDP SSDS dialogue act thus automat-ically takes account of the uncertainty about theuser?s utterances and goals.All work to date on POMDP SSDS has assumed(i) that a user has a singular, fully constrained,fixed goal and (ii) that there is one source of un-209User goal: good Italian but not Thai food User Goal: good Italian but not Thai foodPOMDP SSDS (Example 1) ABC-SSDS (Example 2)U1: What restaurants are nearby?
U?1: What restaurants are nearby?S1: There are 3 nearby.
What type of food do youwant?S?1: There are 3 nearby.
What type of food doyou want?U2: Not Italian, unless it?s really good U?2: Not Italian, unless it?s really goodS2: There are 2 Thai restaurants.
S?2: Ok. Al Capone?s is highly rated.
There are?The compressed state (i.e.
marginal likelihoods in Figure 1)indicates that Italian food is dis-preferred.
?also 2 Thai restaurants nearby.U3: No Thanks.
Bye.
U?3: Great.
I?ll try Al Capone?s.Table 1: State-of-the-art POMDP SSDS vs ABC-SSDS: Example dialogues 1 and 2.
U=User, S=Systemcertainty; errors in speech recognition.
The tradi-tional role of the Dialogue Manager (DM) is there-fore one of reducing uncertainty until its belief isstrongly focused on a single goal which strictly fitsthe user?s stated constraints.
Both the policies thatDMs currently follow and the design decisions im-plemented to make SDSS tasks learnable use theseassumptions (Thomson and Young, 2010; Younget al, 2010).
The resulting systems force usersinto selecting a single domain object as their goalin order to progress the dialogue.
The examplePOMDP SSDS dialogues, Examples 1 and 3 (Ta-bles 1 and 2), show the problems inherent in thisapproach.User goal: good Italian or good French foodS1: How can I help you?U1: What restaurants are nearby?S2: There are 6, what type of food do youwant?U2: Err... Italian or FrenchS3: Do you want Italian or French food?U3: Uh.
either.S4: Do you want Italian or French food?U4: Ok , how about French then.S5: There are 2 good French restaurantsnearby.
What price range do you want?U5: What about Italian?S6: Did you say Italian?U6: QUITTable 2: POMDP SSDS: Example 33 Independence AssumptionsEven considering limited domains, POMDP statespaces grow very quickly.
For example, considerfinding a user?s restaurant preference, which in-volves getting 4 pieces of information, i.e.
food-type, city-area, price range, quality rating.
Given 8food types, 8 city areas, 3 price ranges and 3 qual-ity ratings, coupled with 7 user actions and a 34 di-alogue progress indicator1 then the dialogue statespace contains 8?
8?
3?
3?
7?
34 = 326, 592states.
A POMDP belief space is a probabilitydistribution over all these dialogue states, i.e.
a326, 592 dimensional real valued (R) space.In order to render such large belief spacestractable, the current state of the art in POMDPSSDS uses a variety of handcrafted compressiontechniques, such as making several types of in-dependence assumption.
For example, by assum-ing that users are only ever interested in one typeof food or one location, and that their interestsin food type, price range, quality, etc.
are inde-pendent, the 326, 592 real valued state space canbe reduced to a much smaller ?summary space?
(Williams and Young, 2005) consisting of, say,4 ?
R values2.
See Figure 1 for a graphical de-piction of such assumptions3.As illustrated by Figure 1 the information lostdue to the independence assumptions mean thatthese approaches are unable to support conversa-tions such as that shown in Example 2 (Table 1).4 Sets of User GoalsGetting rid of independence assumptions allowsthe DM to reason and ask questions about theuser?s requirements in a more rational way.
It can,for example distinguish between the user want-ing ?excellent Italian?
or ?any Thai?
versus only?excellent?
restaurants ?
see Figure 1.
However,the resulting high dimensional real valued statespace can still only represent uncertainly over sin-gular user goals (limited to single points in thefeature space, e.g.
an excellent Italian restaurant).1Whether each piece of information is obtained, con-firmed or unknown.2By considering only the maximum marginal likelihoodfor each of the features.3These apply after utterance U2/U?2 of Example 1.210marginalsforfoodtypemarginals for quality            italianreasonable good excellentIndependence betweenslots assumeduser?sgoalthaiFigure 1: Assuming independence of features isequivalent to marginalising across features.
Here,marginalisation incorrectly suppresses belief inItalian.
Thai retains a uniform belief (which ex-ists across all restaurant types not yet mentioned).To achieve a substantial gain in the flexibility ofSSDS we need to allow user?s goals that are setsof points.
Maintaining beliefs over ?sets of goals?allows a POMDP DM to refine its belief in theuser?s requirements (managing speech recognitionerrors) without forcing the user to specify a sin-gular tightly constrained goal.
The disadvantageof this approach is a further expansion of the statespace.5 Automatic Belief CompressionTo allow for expansion of the state space, whilstkeeping its size tractable for policy learning, wesuggest replacing handcraft approaches with Au-tomatic Belief Compression (ABC) techniques.We propose to use proven, principled statisti-cal learning methods for automatically reducingthe dimensionality of belief spaces, but which pre-serve the useful distributions within the full space.Two complementary methods that we are cur-rently investigating are VDC (Poupart, 2005) andE-PCA (Roy and Gordon, 2002; Roy et al, 2005).These methods have been applied successfully in areal-time daily living assistant with over 106 states(St-Aubin et al, 2000; Hoey and Poupart, 2005;Poupart et al, 2006) and to robotic navigation by(Roy and Gordon, 2002; Roy et al, 2005).
They:?
reduce the dimensionality of state spaces thatwere previously intractable for POMDP solu-tion methods, and?
automatically compress the representation ofbelief space distributions to take advantage ofsparsity between likely distributions.The tight coupling between some dia-logue states and actions (e.g.
a user?s goalstate travel-from-London and system actconfirm-from-London) has led some researchersto conclude that compression techniques, such asstate aggregation, are not useful in the dialoguedomain (Williams and Young, 2007).
However,such tight coupling may not exist for all states,indeed VDC has already been applied to a smallspoken dialogue system problem (Poupart, 2005)where it was shown that compressions could befound without losing any information4.
Further,for POMDP approaches the state is not thedialogue state but the belief distribution overdialogue states.
Incompressibility at the dialoguestate level does not rule out compressibility ofbelief distributions.
Finally, our introductionof sets for user goals should provide additionalpossibilities for compression.Our aim in applying ABC methods is to allowPOMDP SSDS to handle the much larger statespaces that are required to achieve the expressive-ness which we believe will be a real benefit tousers.
We plan to do this for real world tasks, e.g.
acity search over 1000s of entities with an uncom-pressed belief space of the order of 108 ?
R.6 Target DialoguesIn general, when a user starts a dialogue theyrarely have a singular goal in mind (Walker et al,2004; Lemon et al, 2006).
Their goal is not a fixedpoint in the domain but instead can be thoughtof as a (possibly disconnected) set of points, forexample either a nearby cheap restaurant or high-quality one further away.
The set represents tradeoffs that the particular user is interested in.
Peoplerarely communicate their goals in terms of suchdistributions or trade offs, preferring to provide in-formation in a piecemeal manner and thus incre-mentally explore the domain.In Examples 1?4 (Tables 1?3) we contrast theoperation of a current state-of-the-art POMDPSSDS with our proposed ABC-SSDS system.
Theuser?s goal in Examples 3 and 4 (Tables 2 and 3)is to explore what restaurants are nearby, with apreference for French or Italian.
Current POMDPSSDS approaches assume that any spread of prob-ability mass in the belief space represents uncer-tainty which needs to be resolved.
This gener-ates problems for the POMDP SSDS in Example 3since the user is forced into specifying one foodtype at a time, resulting in an unwieldy confirma-4Compressing a test problem of 433 states to 31 basisfunctions, i.e.
a summary space of 31 states.211User goal: good Italian or good French foodS?1: How can I help you?U?1: What restaurants are nearby?S?2: There are 6, what type of food do youwant?U2?
: Err... Italian or FrenchS?3: Ok, there are 2 good French restaurantsnearby, and one good Italian.U?4: OK.
Which is best quality?S?3: Mamma Mia?s has the best rating.U?5: Great.
I?ll go there!Table 3: Proposed ABC-SSDS: Example 4tion step (S6 of Example 3) where the user is as-sumed to have changed their mind.
In contrast, theproposed ABC-SSDS system can believe that theuser has requested information on the combinedset of French and Italian restaurants.In Examples 1 and 2 (both shown in Table 1)the user?s goal is to explore restaurants nearby, in-cluding only well-rated Italians.
Here the standardPOMDP SSDS is forced by its ?summary space?
(see marginals in Figure 1) to incorrectly representthe user?s goal after U2 ?Not Italian, unless it?sreally good?
by ruling out all Italian restaurants5.The ABC-SSDS user is able to find the restaurantof their choice, whereas the POMDP SSDS user?schoice is artificially restricted, and they quit hav-ing failed to find a suitable item.The ABC-SSDS style of dialogue is clearly moreefficient than that of current POMDP SSDS.
Itseems likely that users of such a system may alsofind the style of the conversation more natural, andmay be more confident that their eventual choicesreally meet their goals (Walker et al, 2004).All of these hypotheses remain to be exploredin our future empirical work.7 ConclusionWe present several problems for current POMDPapproaches to spoken dialogue systems, concern-ing the representation of complex, but natural, usergoals.
We propose the development of princi-pled automatic methods for dimensionality reduc-tion, in place of the ad-hoc assumptions and hand-crafted compressions currently used.In parallel we are also exploring: (i) what ap-proaches are required for updating beliefs oversets in real time ?
in principle a method similar5There are several ways to try to remedy this, but all haveproblems.to user goal state partitioning (Young et al, 2010)would appear to be sufficient, (ii) what exploitablebounds exist on the sets of goals that are commu-nicable and (iii) to what extent the complexity ofuser goal sets can be traded off against the overalluser experience.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Dr. Jesse Hoey, the SIGdial reviewersand the Engineering and Physical Sciences Re-search Council (EPSRC) project EP/G069840/1.ReferencesJ.
Hoey and P. Poupart.
2005.
Solving POMDPs withContinuous or Large Discrete Observation Spaces.In IJCAI.O.
Lemon, K. Georgila, and J. Henderson.
2006.
Eval-uating Effectiveness and Portability of Reinforce-ment Learned Dialogue Strategies with real users:the TALK TownInfo Evaluation.
In IEEE/ACL Spo-ken Language Technology.P.
Poupart, N. Vlassis, and J. Hoey.
2006.
An An-alytic Solution to Discrete Bayesian ReinforcementLearning.
In ICML.P.
Poupart.
2005.
Exploiting Structure to EfficientlySolve Large Scale Partially Observable Markov De-cision Processes.
Ph.D. thesis, Dept.
Computer Sci-ence, University of Toronto.N.
Roy and G. Gordon.
2002.
Exponential FamilyPCA for Belief Compression in POMDPs.
In NIPS.N.
Roy, G. Gordon, and S. Thrun.
2005.
Finding Ap-proximate POMDP Solutions Through Belief Com-pression.
Artificial Intelligence Research, 22(1-40).R.
St-Aubin, J. Hoey, and C. Boutilier.
2000.
Approx-imate policy construction using decision diagrams.In NIPS.B.
Thomson and S. Young.
2010.
Bayesian updateof dialogue state: A POMDP framework for spokendialogue systems.
Computer Speech and Language,24(4):562?588.M.
Walker, S. Whittaker, A. Stent, P. Maloor, J. Moore,M.
Johnston, and G. Vasireddy.
2004.
User tai-lored generation in the match multimodal dialoguesystem.
Cognitive Science, 28:811?840.J.
Williams and S. Young.
2005.
Scaling Up POMDPsfor Dialog Management: The ?Summary POMDP?Method.
In Proc.
ASRU.J.
Williams and S. Young.
2007.
Scaling POMDPsfor spoken dialog management.
IEEE Transac-tions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing,15(7):2116 ?2129, Sept.S.
Young, M.
Gas?ic?, S. Keizer, F. Mairesse, B. Thom-son, and K. Yu.
2010.
The Hidden InformationState model: a practical framework for POMDPbased spoken dialogue management.
ComputerSpeech and Language, 24(2):150?174.212
