Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 99?102,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Impact of Dimensionality on Natural Language Route Directionsin Unconstrained DialogueVivien MastUniversity of BremenBremen, Germanyviv@tzi.deJan SmeddinckUniversity of BremenBremen, Germanysmeddinck@tzi.deAnna StrotsevaUniversity of BremenBremen, Germanyanna.strotseva@uni-bremen.deThora TenbrinkUniversity of BremenBremen, Germanytenbrink@uni-bremen.deAbstractIn  this paper we examine the influence  ofdimensionality  on  natural  language  routedirections  in  dialogue.
Specifically,  weshow  that  giving  route  instructions  in  aquasi-3d  environment  leads  to  experientialdescriptive  accounts,  as  manifested  by  ahigher  proportion  of  location  descriptions,lack of chunking, use of 1st person singularpersonal pronouns, and more frequent use oftemporal and spatial deictic terms.
2d scen-arios  lead  to  informative  instructions,  asmanifested by a frequent use of motion ex-pressions,  chunking of route elements,  anduse of mainly 2nd person singular personalpronouns.1 IntroductionIn order to build artificial agents that are com-petent  in  creating  and  understanding  naturallanguage route directions in situated discourse,it is necessary to explore how situatedness af-fects  the  communication  of  humans  aboutroutes.
The current study aims at exploring inwhich  ways  dimensionality  influences  thechoice  of  communicative  strategies  for  routedirections in discourse.Previous  research  about  route  directionsmostly deals with monologues or pretend dia-logue (e.g.
Rehrl  et  al.,  2009;  Klippel  et  al.,2003), and concerns two-dimensional stimuli,such as map-based tasks (Klippel et al, 2003;Goschler et al, 2008).The study presented here examines pairs ofparticipants collaborating on a route instructiontask  in  a  naturalistic  discourse  setting  undertwo  conditions:  In  the  2d  condition,  the  in-structor  was  shown  a  two-dimensional  mapwith the route drawn into it.
In the 3d conditionhowever, the instructor navigated along a pre-set route in Google Maps Street View.2 Route Instruction StrategiesRoute directions consist of procedures and de-scriptions that combine to a step-by-step pre-scription of the actions that are necessary forexecuting the given course (Michon and Denis,2001; Longacre, 1983).
Since spatial linguisticexpressions  reflect  the  mental  model  alreadyexisting on the part  of  the  instructor,  the di-mensions in which route instructors experiencean environment (2d or 3d) may have a system-atic impact on the discourse strategies they use.In the following we analyze a range of spatialdescriptions, focusing on aspects known to becrucial for spatial interaction, such as descrip-tions of locations and motion, the use of per-spective  expressions,  chunking  of  route  ele-ments, and personal and spatiotemporal deixis.2.1 Static and Dynamic DescriptionsSince route directions deal with a static envir-onment in which a movement takes place, theyusually include a high proportion of dynamicdescriptions of actions (procedures in Michonand Denis' (2001) terms), and additional staticinformation  about  the  surroundings  (descrip-tions).
In our analysis, we distinguished speak-ers?
utterances as  motion descriptions if  theydescribed or requested the literal  motion of anentity.
In contrast, an utterance was marked aslocation if it described a static spatial relation,for example the position of the speaker or anobject at a certain point in time.2.2 Perspective UseWhen  describing  routes,  speakers  either  usethe  route  perspective,  describing  route  ele-ments or motions from the point of view of a99person traveling along the route, or the surveyperspective, where the description is based oncardinal  directions,  or  directions  as  they  aredefined  by  the  map  as  a  whole  (Taylor  andTversky,  1996).
Previous  research  has indic-ated that perspective choice can be influencedby the specific situation, and by the coordina-tion  between  speakers  in  natural  discourse(Pickering  and  Garrod,  2004;  Watson  et  al.,2006).
In the present study, we test the hypo-thesis that navigating a route in a 3d perspect-ive makes it more difficult for the instructor touse the survey perspective, leading to a prefer-ence for the route perspective.
Further we as-sume  that  the  follower  will  adapt  to  the  in-structor?s  perspective choice in  terms  of  lan-guage use.2.3 Chunking of Route SegmentsIn a study examining online route descriptionsto  an imaginary  follower  based on a two-di-mensional  map,  Klippel  et  al.
(2003)  foundthat  participants  tended  to  chunk  decisionpoints without directional change together.
Forexample, a speaker could say ?turn right at thesecond intersection?
instead of ?Go straight on,and then turn right?.
This occurred even whenthe route was shown as a moving dot on themap.
In  our  study,  we  address  the  questionwhether this also holds for instructors with athree-dimensional  view.
We  expected  a  fre-quent usage of chunking in the 2d condition, inwhich the participants have access to compre-hensive structural information, as opposed to ahigher degree of separate references in the 3dcondition, in which participants experience theenvironment incrementally.3 Experiment22 students (average age 25, 14 male and 8 fe-male) volunteered to participate in the experi-ment.
They formed  11  pairs  that  each  com-pleted one test run and three permuted criticaltrials.
Instructor  and follower  were placed  indifferent  rooms  and  interacted  via  telephonesoftware.The four predetermined routes were identic-al for all participants, and they differed mildlyin complexity,  ranging from 9 to 14 decisionpoints.
All  routes  were  located  in  San Fran-cisco and were specifically designed such that,at most decision points, descriptions would beunambiguous with respect to perspective use.In  the  2d  condition  (5  pairs),  instructorswere  given a  map  that  showed mostly streetnames  and  major  landmarks  such  as  parks,schools, restaurants, etc., as they appear in thestandard  Google  Maps  map  view.
The  routeconsisted of a marked starting and end point,and was signaled by a thick blue line with ar-rows indicating the direction.
In the 3d condi-tion  (6  pairs),  instructors  interacted  directlywith Google  Street View which had a photo-graphic quasi-3d view and allowed them to ob-serve the surroundings as if navigating on theroads,  seeing a vast  amount  of details  of  theenvironment.
Street names were clearly read-able as an overlay on top of the photographicimagery.
The route was indicated by fat bluearrows that  the  instructors could click on,  inorder to move in the given direction.In both conditions, the followers were askedto draw the route on a map that only containedthe starting point.
The task instruction was thesame for both conditions, priming for proced-ural  discourse yet  ambiguous  with respect  toperspective use:  ?Now you  have to  tell  yourpartner where you are going.
Please do this bygiving instructions via the microphone.?
(trans-lated  from German).
In  the  3d  condition  in-structors were informed that the follower had adifferent view of the same surroundings.Taken together this setup differs from pre-vious studies in that it  features unconstrainedspoken dialogue and is  set  in a realistic use-case with a three-dimensional setting.4 ResultsThe participants in the 3d condition took signi-ficantly longer (M = 125.61 utterances per tri-al) to complete a task than the participants inthe 2d perspective (M = 46.40 utterances pertrial, t(9) = 4.781, p = 0.001).Figure 1 shows typical examples of the in-structors?
language  in  the  two  conditions.
Inthe 2d condition, instructors as well as follow-ers used survey perspective, as in line 2.2 inFigure 1, significantly more frequently than inthe 3d condition (see Table 1).
A Chi-squaretest  showed  the  following results  for  the  in-structors: ?2(1) = 200.14, p < 0.0001 and ?2(1) =91.25, p < 0.0001 for the followers1.
It is not-able  that  the  followers  in  the  2d  conditionshowed  a  preference  for  survey  perspective(??
(1)  = 15.38;  p  < 0.0001),  while  in  the  3d1 Mixed, conflated and unclear expressions wereexcluded from the analysis.100condition they clearly favored route perspect-ive, which was the perspective of the instruct-or.3d condition:1.1 Yes... erm ...now ... there is acrossing again1.2 Moraga Street1.3 to the left1.4 into MoragaStreet [?
]1.5 then there is acrossing again1.6 the twelfth1.7 straight on over there1.8 So Moraga further2d condition:2.1 And then we go down that one up to MoragaStreet2.2 And there we also go right into Moraga Street2.3 We go through that one up to EleventhAvenueFigure 1.
Typical examples of instructors?
lan-guage in the two conditions.The instructors in  the 3d condition used asignificantly higher proportion of location de-scriptions than the instructors in the 2d condi-tion  (t(6.5)  = 4.500,  p  = 0.003).
As  Table  2shows, the instructors in the 2d condition reliedmainly on motion descriptions  (see Figure 1,location  descriptions  in  lines  1.1  and  1.5  aswell as motion descriptions in lines 2.1-2.3).Perspectiveexpressions3D 2DInstructor Follower Instructor FollowerRoute 98.93%(370)93.33%(112)50.88%(87)21.57%(11)Survey 1.07%(4)6.67%(8)49.12%(84)78.43%(40)Totals 374 120 171 51Table 1.
Use of perspective expressions in 2dand 3d conditions (absolute values in paren-theses).Chunking of route elements did not occur atall  in  the  3d  condition.
In  the  2d  conditionthere were 29 intersections that were skippedthrough chunking, as shown in line 2.3 in Fig-ure 1.
This amounts to a mean of 1.9 chunkedintersections per route.Instructors in the 2d condition strongly pre-ferred 2nd person singular pronouns, whereasinstructors in the 3d condition showed a prefer-ence - though not as strong - for 1st person sin-gular (see Figure 2).
Instructors in the 3d con-dition also used the German formal pronoun es?it?
more frequently than those in the 2d condi-tion.
This preference is usually displayed in ut-terances noting the presence of landmarks  inthe  surroundings  (e.g.
?Da  gibt  es  eine  Hal-testelle.?
?
?There is a tram stop here.?
).Condition Location Motion3D 36.81% 63.19%2D 14.31% 85.69%Table 2.
Location and motion descriptions byinstructor (means per trial).In  the  3d  condition,  the  participants  usedtemporal  and  spatial  deictic  terms  more  fre-quently than in  the 2d condition (jetzt ?now?3d:  7.3  occurrences  per  100  utterances,  2d:2.73. hier ?here?
3d: 2.21, 2d: 0.14).Figure 2.
Relative frequency of personal pro-nouns in the two conditions.5 DiscussionOur comparison of route directions given whileperceiving an environment either as a 2d mapor  in  a 3d view revealed that  dimensionalityhas  systematic  consequences  for  discoursestrategies on various levels.
Location descrip-tions, route perspective expressions, 1st personsingular personal pronouns, impersonal es ?it?,as well  as  temporal  and spatial  deictic  termsoccurred  more  frequently  in  the  instructors?discourse  in  the  3d condition  than in  the  2dcondition.
Also, in the 3d condition, instructorsdid not chunk route elements together.
Thesefindings  reflect  the  fact  that  the  instructors3D 2D05101520253035ichwirduessieer101consistently  chose  a  different  discoursestrategy in this condition.
Instead of producingprocedural step-by-step instructions, they gavedescriptions of the events happening to themand accounts of their surroundings, whereas in-structors in the 2d condition gave typical routedirections for their partner to follow.There are three aspects that may be respons-ible for the different discourse strategies.
First,it can be assumed that there is a habitual pref-erence,  due to  the  fact  that  people  providingroute directions usually have a 2d representa-tion available to them, or prior knowledge ofthe relevant route,  whereas someone navigat-ing new surroundings would not normally beexpected  to  provide  efficient  procedural  in-structions.
Second,  the  lack  of  structural  in-formation in the 3d condition makes it difficultfor instructors to describe the route from a sur-vey perspective, or to deliver precise goal-ori-ented instructions.
Third, in the 3d condition,progress for the instructor was slow - compar-able to riding a bicycle along the route at mod-erate speed - due to the technical properties ofGoogle Maps Street View This severed the ef-fect of the inherent lack of structural informa-tion, and most probably led the participants toverbalize their  progress  more  frequently thannecessary,  in  order  to  keep  the  conversationflowing,  instead  of  to  waiting  until  theyreached a point where more efficient instruc-tions would be possible.
This factor is also re-flected in  the  number  of  utterances  per  trial:The higher number of utterances per trial in the3d condition (see section 4) is at least partly aresult of the technical setup.In the case of chunking, time does not seemto  be  the  only relevant  factor.
Klippel  et  al.
(2003) showed that in a 2d scenario in whichthe  route  was  only gradually revealed in  theform of a moving dot on a map,  participantsstill made use of chunking.
It remains to be in-vestigated whether the lack of chunking in thepresent scenario occurred due to the differingdimensionality,  or  resulted  from  the  uncon-strained real dialogue situation, in contrast tothe  pretend-dialogue  used  in  Klippel  et  al.
(2003).Further research should differentiate the roleof time in the choice of strategy from the im-pact of perspective.
This requires experimentalsetups that allow for the systematic variation ofthe speed of the navigation, as well as for bet-ter control of such factors as previous know-ledge and information density on the route.
Itwould also be necessary to examine two fur-ther  conditions  (instructor:  3d,  follower:  2dand instructor: 2d, follower: 3d).AcknowledgmentsFunding by the DFG for the SFB/TR 8, projectI5-[DiaSpace], is gratefully acknowledged.
Wethank  the  students  who  participated  in  ourstudy, as well as Robert Porzel and Elena An-donova for their helpful advice.ReferencesJuliana  Goschler,  Elena  Andonova  and  Robert  J.Ross.
2008.
Perspective  Use  and  PerspectiveShift in Spatial Dialogue.
In: Christian Freksa etal.
(Eds.
): Spatial Cognition VI, 250-265.
Berlin:Springer.Alexander  Klippel,  Heike  Tappe  and  ChristopherHabel.
2003.
Pictorial  Representations  ofRoutes: Chunking Route Segments during Com-prehension.
In:  Christian  Freksa  et  al.
(Eds.
):Spatial Cognition III, 11-33.
Berlin: Springer.Robert  E.  Longacre.
1983.
The Grammar of  Dis-course.
Plenum Press, New York / London.Pierre-Emmanuel Michon and Michel Denis.
2001.When and Why Are Visual Landmarks Used inGiving Directions?
In: Daniel R. Montello (Ed.
):COSIT 2001, 292-305.Martin J. Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
To-ward a Mechanistic Psychology of Dialogue.
InBehavioral and Brain Sciences, 27:169-225.Karl  Rehrl, Sven Leitinger, Georg Gartner and Fe-lix  Ortag.
2009.
An Analysis  of  Direction andMotion  Concepts  in  Verbal  Descriptions  ofRoute  Choices.
In:  Kathleen  Stewart  Hornsby,Christophe Claramunt, Michel Denis and G?rardLigozat (Eds.
): COSIT 2009, 471-488.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin / Heidelberg.Holly A. Taylor  and Barbara Tversky.
1996.
Per-spective  in  Spatial  Descriptions.
In  Journal  ofMemory and Language, 35:371-391.Matthew E. Watson, Martin J. Pickering and HollyP.
Branigan.
2006.
Why Dialogue Methods areImportant for Investigating Spatial Language.
In:Kenny  R.  Coventry,  John  Bateman  and  ThoraTenbrink (Eds.
):  Spatial Language in Dialogue,8-22.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.102
