Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 82?90,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsPropBank Annotation of Multilingual Light Verb ConstructionsJena D. Hwang1, Archna Bhatia3, Clare Bonial1, Aous Mansouri1,Ashwini Vaidya1, Nianwen Xue2, and Martha Palmer11Department of Linguistics, University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder CO 803092Department of Computer Science, Brandeis University, Waltham MA 024533Department of Linguistics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana IL 61801{hwangd,claire.bonial,aous.mansouri,ashwini.vaidya,martha.palmer}@colorado.edu, bhatia@illinois.edu, xuen@brandeis.eduAbstractIn this paper, we have addressed the taskof PropBank annotation of light verbconstructions, which like multi-wordexpressions pose special problems.
Toarrive at a solution, we have evaluated 3different possible methods of annotation.The final method involves three passes:(1) manual identification of a light verbconstruction, (2) annotation based on thelight verb construction?s Frame File, and(3) a deterministic merging of the firsttwo passes.
We also discuss how invarious languages the light verbconstructions are identified and can bedistinguished from the non-light verbword groupings.1 IntroductionOne of the aims in natural language processing,specifically the task of semantic role labeling(SRL), is to correctly identify and extract thedifferent semantic relationships between wordsin a given text.
In such tasks, verbs areconsidered important, as they are responsible forassigning and controlling the semantic roles ofthe arguments and adjuncts around it.
Thus, thegoal of the SRL task is to identify the argumentsof the predicate and label them according to theirsemantic relationship to the predicate (Gildeaand Jurafsky, 2002; Pradhan et al, 2003).To this end, PropBank (Palmer et.
al., 2005)has developed semantic role labels and labeledlarge corpora for training and testing ofsupervised systems.
PropBank identifies andlabels the semantic arguments of the verb on averb-by-verb basis, creating a separate FrameFile that includes verb specific semantic roles toaccount for each subcategorization frame of theverb.
It has been shown that training supervisedsystems with PropBank?s semantic roles forshallow semantic analysis yield good results (seeCoNLL 2005 and 2008).However, semantic role labeling tasks areoften complicated by multiword expressions(MWEs) such as idiomatic expressions (e.g.,?Stop pulling my leg!?
), verb particleconstructions (e.g., ?You must get over yourshyness.?
), light verb constructions (e.g., ?take awalk?, ?give a lecture?
), and other complexpredicates (e.g., V+V predicates such as Hindi?s????
???
nikal gayaa, lit.
?exit went?, means?left?
or ?departed?).
MWEs that involve verbsare especially challenging because thesubcategorization frame of the predicate is nolonger solely dependent on the verb alone.Rather, in many of these cases the argumentstructure is assigned by the union of twopredicating elements.
Thus, it is important thatthe manual annotation of semantic roles, whichwill be used by automatic SRL systems, defineand label these MWEs in a consistent andeffective manner.In this paper we focus on the PropBankannotation of light verb constructions (LVCs).We have developed a multilingual schema forannotating LVCs that takes into consideration thesimilarities and differences shared by theconstruction as it appears in English, Arabic,Chinese, and Hindi.
We also discuss in somedetail the practical challenges involved in thecrosslinguistic analysis of LVCs, which we hopewill bring us a step closer to a unifiedcrosslinguistic analysis.Since NomBank, as a companion toPropBank, provides corresponding semantic role82labels for noun predicates (Meyers et al, 2004),we would like to take advantage of NomBank?sexisting nominalization Frame Files andannotations as much as possible.
A question thatwe must therefore address is, ?Arenominalization argument structures exactly thesame whether or not they occur within an LVC?
?as will be discussed in section 6.1.2 Identifying Light Verb ConstructionsLinguistically LVCs are considered a type of acomplex predicate.
Many studies from differingangles and frameworks have characterizedcomplex predicates as a fusion of two or morepredicative elements.
For example, Rosen (1997)treats complex structures as complementationstructures, where the argument structure ofelements in a complex predicate are fusedtogether.
Goldberg (1993) takes a constructionalapproach to complex predicates and arrives at ananalysis that is comparable to viewing complexpredicates as a single lexical item.
Similarly,Mohanan (1997) assumes different levels oflinguistic representation for complex predicatesin which the elements, such as the noun and thelight verb, functionally combine to give a singleclausal nucleus.
Alsina (1997) and Butt (1997)suggest that complex predicates may be formedby syntactically independent elements whoseargument structures are brought together by apredicate composition mechanism.While there is no clear-cut definition of LVCs,let alne the whole range of complex predicates,for the purposes of this study, we have adaptedour approach largely from Butt?s (2004) criteriafor defining LVCs.
LVCs are characterized by alight verb and a predicating complement(henceforth, true predicate) that ?combine topredicate as a single element.?
(Ibid.)
In LVC,the verb is considered semantically bleached insuch a way that the verb does not hold its fullpredicating power.
Thus, the light verb plus itstrue predicate can often be paraphrased by averbal form of the true predicate without loss ofthe core meaning of the expression.
For example,the light verb ?gave?
and the predicate ?lecture?in ?gave a lecture?, together form a singlepredicating unit such that it can be paraphrasedby ?lectured?.True predicates in LVCs can be a noun (theobject of the verb or the object of the prepositionin a prepositional phrase), an adjective, or a verb.One light verb plus true predicate combinationfound commonly across all our PropBanklanguages (i.e., English, Arabic, Chinese, andHindi) is the noun as the object of the verb as in?Sara took [a stroll] along the beach?.
In Hindi,true predicates can be adjectives or verbs, inaddition to the nouns.???
?
???
[?????]
???
(Adjective)to-me  you [nice]  seemlit.
?You seem nice to me?
'You (are) liked to me (=I like you).'?????
??
???
[??]
????
(Verb)I-ERG everything  [do] tooklit.
?I took do everything?
'I have done everything.
'As for Arabic, the LVCs come in verb+nounpairings.
However, they surface in two syntacticforms.
It can either be the object of the verb justlike in English:????
????]?????? ]
?????
?
?gave.he Georges [lecture] PREP Lebanonlit.
'Georges gave a lecture about Lebanon'?Georges lectured about Lebanon?or the complement can be the object of apreposition:??????]?????
]?????
????
?conduct.I [PREP-visit] our.saint Iliaslit.
?I will conduct with visit Saint Ilias?s?
?I will visit Saint Ilias?s?3 Standard PropBankAnnotation ProcedureThe PropBank annotation process can be brokendown into two major steps: creation of the FrameFiles for verbs occurring in the data andannotation of the data using the Frame Files.During the creation of the Frame Files, theusages of the verbs in the data are examined bylinguists (henceforth, ?framers?).
Based on theseobservations, the framers create a Frame File foreach verb containing one or more framesets,which correspond to coarse-grained senses of thepredicate lemma.
Each frameset specifies thePropBank labels (i.e., ARG0, ARG1,?ARG5)corresponding to the argument structure of theverb.
Additionally, illustrative examples areincluded for each frameset, which will later bereferenced by the annotators.
These examplesalso include the use of the ARGM labels.Thus, the framesets are based on theexamination of the data, the framers?
linguisticknowledge and native-speaker intuition.
At83times, we also make use of the syntactic andsemantic behavior of the verb as described bycertain lexical resources.
These resources includeVerbNet (Kipper et.
al., 2006) and FrameNet(Baker et.
al., 1998) for English, a number ofmonolingual and bilingual dictionaries forArabic, and Hindi WordNet and DS Parses(Palmer et.
al., 2009) for Hindi.
Additionally, ifavailable, we consult existing framesets of wordswith similar meanings across different languages.The data awaiting annotation are passed ontothe annotators for a double-blind annotationprocess using the previously created framesets.The double annotated data is then adjudicated bya third annotator, during which time thedifferences of the two annotations are resolved toproduce the Gold Standard.Two major guiding considerations during theframing and annotating process are dataconsistency and annotator productivity.
Duringthe frameset creation process, verbs that sharesimilar semantic and syntactic characteristics areframed similarly.
During the annotation process,the data is organized by verbs so that each verb istackled all at once.
In doing so, we firstly ensurethat the framesets of similar verbs, and in turn,the annotation of the verbs, will both beconsistent across the data.
Secondly, by tacklingannotation on verb-by-verb basis, the annotatorsare able to concentrate on a single verb at a time,making the process easier and faster for theannotators.4 Annotating LVCA similar process must be followed whenannotating light verb constructions The first stepis to create consistent Frame Files for light verbs.Then in order to make the annotation processproduce consistent data at a reasonable speed, wehave decided to carry out the light verbannotation in three passes (Table 1):  (1) annotatethe light verb, (2) annotate the true predicate, and(3) merge the two annotations into one.The first pass involves the identification of thelight verb.
The most important parts of this stepare to identify a verb as having bleachedmeaning, thereafter assign a generic light verbframeset and identify the true predicatingexpression of the sentence, which would bemarked with ARG-PRX (i.e., ARGument-PRedicating eXpression).
For English, forexample, annotators were instructed to use Butt?s(2004) criteria as described in Section 2.
Thesecriteria required that annotators be able torecognize whether or not the complement of apotential light verb was itself a predicatingelement.
To make this occasionally difficultjudgment, annotators used a simple heuristic testof whether or not the complement was headed byan element that has a verbal counterpart.
If so,the light verb frameset was selected.The second pass involves the annotation of thesentence with the true predicate as the relation.During this pass, the true predicate is annotatedwith an appropriate frameset.
In the third pass,the arguments and the modifiers of the twoprevious passes are reconciled and merged into asingle annotation.
In order to reduce the numberof hand annotation, it is preferable for this lastpass, the Pass 3, to be done automatically.Since the nature of the light verb is differentfrom that of other verbs as described in Section2, the advantage of doing the annotation of thelight verb and the true predicate on separatepasses is that in the light verb pass the annotatorswill be able to quickly dispose of the verb as alight verb and in the second pass, they will beallowed to solely focus on the annotation of thelight verb?s true predicate.The descriptions of how the arguments andmodifiers of the light verbs and their truepredicates are annotated are mentioned in Table1, but notably, none of the examples in itcurrently include the annotation of argumentsPass 1: Pass 2: Pass 3:Light Verb Annotation True Predicate Annotation Merge of Pass1&2 AnnotationRelation Light verb True predicate Light verb + true predicateArgumentsandModifiers- Predicating expression isannotated with ARG-PRX- Arguments and modifiers ofthe light verb are annotated- Arguments and modifiers ofthe true predicate are annotated- Arguments and modifiersfound in the two passes aremerged, preferablyautomatically.Frameset Light verb frameset True predicate?s frameset LVC?s framesetExample?John took a brisk walk through the park.
?REL: tookARG-PRX: a brisk walkARG-MNR: briskREL: walkREL: took walkARG-MNR: briskTable 1.
Preliminary Annotation Scheme84and modifiers.
This is intentional, as coming toan agreement concerning the details of whatexactly each of the three passes looks like whilemeeting the needs of the four PropBanklanguages is quite challenging.
Thus, for the restof the paper we will discuss the strengths andweaknesses of the two trial methods ofannotation we have considered and discarded inSection 5, as well as the final annotation schemewe chose in Section 6.5 Trials5.1 Method 1As our first attempt, the annotation of argumentand adjuncts was articulated in the followingmanner (Table 2).Pass 1: Pass 2:Light verb True predicate- Predicating expressionis labeled ARG-PRX- Annotate the Subjectargument of the lightverb as the Arg0.- Annotate the rest of thearguments and modifiersof the light verb withARGM labels.- Annotate argumentsand modifiers of thetrue predicate withinits domain of locality.Generic light verb FrameFileTrue predicate?sFrame File?-RKQ WRRN D EULVN ZDON WKURXJK WKH SDUN?ARG0: JohnREL: tookARG-PRX: a brisk walkARG-DIR: through the parkARG-MNR: briskREL: walkTable 2.
Method 1 for annotation for Passes 1 and 2.Revised information is in italics.In Pass 1, in addition to annotating thepredicating expression of the light verb withARG-PRX, the subject argument was markedwith an ARG0.
The choice of ARG0, whichcorresponds to a proto-typical agent, was guidedby the observation that English LVCs tend tolend a component of agentivity to the subjecteven in cases where the true predicate would notnecessarily assign an agent as its subject.
Therest of the arguments and modifiers were labeledwith corresponding ARGM (i.e., modifier)labels.
The assumption here is that the argumentsof the light verb will also be the arguments of thetrue predicate.In Pass 2, then, the annotation of thearguments of the true predicate was restricted toits domain of locality (i.e., the span of the ARG-PRX as marked in Pass1).
That is, in the example?John took a brisk walk through the park?, thelabeled spans for the true predicate would belimited to the NP ?a brisk walk?
and neither?John?
nor through the park?
would be annotatedas the arguments of the true predicate ?walk?.Frame Files: This method would require threeFrame Files: a generic light verb Frame File, atrue predicate Frame File, and an LVC FrameFile.
The Frame File for the light verb would notbe specific to the form of the light verb (e.g.,same frame for take and make).
Rather, it wouldindicate a skeletal argument structure in order toreduce the amount of Frame Files made,including only Arg0 as its argument1.5.2 Weakness of Method 1This method has one glaring problem: theassumption that the semantic roles of thearguments as assigned by the light verbuniformly coincide with those assigned by thetrue predicate does not always hold.
Consider thefollowing English sentence2.whether Wu Shu-Chen would make another[appearance] in court was subject to observationIn this example, ?Wu Shu-Chen?
is the agentargument (Arg0) of the light verb ?make?
and isthe theme or patient argument (Arg1) of a typical?appearance?
event.
Also consider the followingexample from Hindi.It is possible that in a light verb construction,the light verb actually modifies the standardunderlying semantics of a nominalization likeappearance.
In any event, we cannot assume thatthe expected argument labels for the light verband for the standard interpretation of thenominalization will always coincide.
Thus, wecould say that Pass 2?s true predicate annotationis only partial and is not representative of thecomplete argument structure.
In particular, weare left with a very difficult merging problem,because the argument labels of the two separatepasses conflict as seen in the above examples.5.3 Method 2In order to remedy the problem of conflictingargument labels, we revised Method 1?s Pass 2annotation scheme.
This is shown in Table 3.Pass 1 remains unchanged from Method 1.In this method, both the light verb and the truepredicate of the sentence receive complete sets of1 This is why the rest of the argument/modifiers would beannotated using ARGM modifier labels.2  The light verb is in boldface, the true predicate is in boldand square brackets, and the argument/adjunct underconsideration is underlined.85argument and modifier labels.
In Pass 2, thelimitation of annotating within the domain oflocality is removed.
That is, the arguments andmodifiers inside and outside the true predicate?sdomain of control are annotated with respect totheir semantic relationship to the true predicate(e.g., in the English example of Section 5.2, ?WuShu-Chen?
would be considered ARG1 of?appearance?
).Frame Files: This method would also requirethree Frame Files.
The major difference is thatwith this method the Frame File for the truepredicate includes arguments that are sisters tothe light verb.5.4 Weaknesses of Method 2If in Method 1 we have committed the error ofsemantic unfaithfulness due to omission, inMethod 2 we are faced with the problem ofincluding too much.
In the following sentence,consider the role of the underlined adjunct:A New York audience ?
gave it a big roundof applause when the music started to play.By the annotation in Method 2, the underlinedtemporal adjunct ?when the music started toplay?
is labeled as both the argument of ?give?and of ?applause?.
The question here is does theargument apply to both the giving and theapplauding event?
In other words, does theadjunct play an equal role in both passes?Since it could be easily said that the temporalphrase applies to both the applauding and thegiving of the applause events, this example maynot be particularly compelling.
However, what ifa syntactic complement of the light verb is asemantic argument of the true predicate and thetrue predicate only?
This is seen more frequentlyin the cases where the light verb is less bleachedthan in the case of ?give?
above.
Consider thefollowing Arabic example.?????
??]???????? ]
?????
?????????
???????
?????
?took.we PREP DEF-consideration PREPprepertations.our possibility sustain.their losses?We took into [consideration] during our prepa-rations the possibility of them sustaining losses?Here, even though the constituent ?of themsustaining losses?
is the syntactic complement ofthe verb ?to take;?
semantically, it modifies onlythe nominal object of the PP ?consideration.
?There are similar phenomena in Chinese lightverb constructions.
Syntactic modifiers of thelight verb are semantic arguments of the truepredicate, which is usually a nominalization thatserves as its complement.??
?
?
?
?
??
[??]
??
?we now regarding this CL issue [conduct] discussion.lit.
?We are conducting a discussion on this issue.?
?We are discussing this issue.
?The prepositional phrase ?????
?regardingthis issue?
is a sister to the light verb butsemantically it is an argument of the nominalizedpredicate ??
?discussion?.The logical next question would be: does theannotation of the arguments, adjuncts andmodifiers have to be all or nothing?
It couldconceivably be possible to assign a selected setof arguments at the light verb or true predicatelevel.
For example, in the Chinese sentence, themodifier ?regarding this CL issue?, though asyntactic adjunct to the light verb, could be leftout from the semantic annotation in Pass 1 andincluded only in the Pass 2.However, the objection to this treatmentcomes from a more practical need.
As mentionedabove, in order to keep the manual annotation toa minimum, it would be necessary to keep Pass 3completely deterministic.
As is, with theunmodified Method 2, there would be the need tochoose between Pass 1 or Pass 2 annotation towhen doing the automatic Pass 3.
If we modifyMethod 2 by annotating only a selected set ofsyntactic arguments for the light verb or the truepredicate, then this issue is exacerbated.
In sucha case there we would have to develop with strictrules for which arguments of which pass shouldbe included in Pass 3.
Pass 3 would no longer beautomatic, and should be done manually.Pass 2:True predicate- Annotate the Subject argument of the light verbwith the appropriate role of the true predicate- Annotate arguments and modifiers of the truepredicate without limitation as to the domain oflocality.True predicate?s Frame File?+H PDGH DQRWKHU DSSHDUDQFH DW WKH SDUW\?ARG1: HeARG-ADV: anotherREL: appearanceARG-DIR: at courtTable 3.
Method 2 for annotation for Pass 2.
Pass1 as presented in Table 2 remains unchanged.Revised information for Pass 2 is in italics866 Final Annotation Scheme6.1 Semantic FidelityMany of the objections so far to Methods 1 and 2have centered on the issue of semantic fidelityduring the annotation of each of the two passes.The debate of whether both passes should beannotated and to what extent has practicalimplications for the third Pass, as describedabove.
However, more importantly it comesdown to whether or not the semantics of the finallight verb plus true predicate combination isindeed distinct from the semantics of its parts(i.e.
light verb and true predicate, separately).This may be a fascinating linguistic question, butit is not something our annotators can bedebating for each and every instance.Instead, we argue that the semantic argumentstructure of the light verb plus true predicatecombination can in practice be different fromthat of the expressions taken independently ashas been proposed by various studies (Butt,2004; Rosen, 1997; Grimshaw & Mester, 1988).Thus, we resolve the cases in which thedifferences in argument roles as assigned by thelight verb and the nominalization (Section 5.2)by handling the argument structure of thestandard nominalization separately from that ofthe nominalization participating in the LVC.
Inthe example ?Chen made another appearance incourt?, we annotate ?Chen?
as the Agent (ARG0)of the full predicate ?
[make] [appearance]?,which is different from the argument structure ofthe standard nominalization which would label?Chen?
to be the Patient argument (ARG1).6.2 Method 3: Final MethodOur final method of light verb annotation reflectsthe notion that the noun, verb, or adjective as atrue predicate within an LVC can have adifferent argument structure from that of theword alone.
Table 4 shows the final annotationscheme for light verb construction.During Pass 1, the LVCs and their predicatingexpressions are identified in the data.
Instancesidentified as LVCs in Pass 1 are then manuallyannotated during Pass 2, annotating thearguments and adjuncts of the light verb and thetrue predicate with roles that reflect theirsemantic relationships to the light verb plus truepredicate.
In practice, Pass 1 becomes a way ofsimply manually identifying the light verbusages.
It is in Pass 2 that we make the finalchoice of argument labels for all of thearguments.
Thus in Pass 3, the light verb and thetrue predicate lemmas from Pass 1 and 2 arejoined into a single unit (e.g., in the examplefound in Table 4, the light verb ?took?
would bejoined with the true predicate ?walk?
into?took+walk?)
3.
In this final method, Pass 3 canbe achieved completely deterministically.The major difference in this annotationscheme from that of Methods 1 and 2 is thatinstead of annotating in terms of the semantics ofthe bare noun, adjective or verb, the argumentstructure is determined for the entire predicate orthe full event: semantics of the light verb plus thetrue predicate.
This means that for the sentenceswhere the argument roles of the verb and thenominalization disagree like ?Chen?
in ?Chen3 The order of Pass 2 and Pass 3 as presented in Table 4 isarguably a product of how the annotation tools forPropBank are set up for Arabic, Chinese, and English.
Thatis, the order of the Pass 2 and Pass 3 could potentially beflipped provided that the tools and procedures of annotationsupport it, as is the case for Hindi PropBank.
After the LVCand ARG-PRX are identified in Pass 1, the light verb andthe true predicate can be deterministically joined into asingle relation in Pass 2, leaving the manual annotation ofLVC for Pass 3.
The advantage of this alternative orderingis that because the annotation of LVC is done around lightverb plus the true predicate as a single relation, rather thanthe true predicate alone as in Table 4, the argumentannotation may in actuality be more intuitive for annotatorseven with less training.Pass 1: Pass 2:  Pass 3:Light Verb Identification LVC Annotation Deterministic relation mergeRelation Light verb True predicate Light verb + true predicateArguments& Modifiers- Predicating expression isannotated with ARG-PRX- Arguments and modifiers ofthe LVCs are annotated- Arguments and modifiersare taken from Pass 2Frame File <no Frame File needed> LVC?s Frame File LVC?s Frame FileExample?John took a brisk walk through the park.
?REL: tookARG-PRX: a brisk walkARG0: JohnARG-MNR: briskREL: walkARGM-DIR: through the parkARG0: JohnARG-MNR: briskREL: [took][walk]ARGM-DIR: through the parkTable 4.
Final Annotation Scheme87made another4 appearance in court?, we label theargument with the role that is consistent with theentire predicate (i.e.
Agent, ARG0).Frame Files: The final advantage to thismethod is that only one Frame File is needed.Since Pass 1 is an identification round, no FrameFile is required.
A single Frame File for LVCthat includes the argument structure with respectto the light verb plus true predicate combinationwill suffice for Pass 2 and Pass 3.7 Distinguishing LVCs from MWEsAs we have discussed in Section 2, we adaptedour approach from Butt?s (2004) definition ofLVCs.
That is, an LVC is characterized by asemantically bleached light verb and a truepredicate.
These elements combine as a singlepredicating unit, in such a way that the light verbplus its true predicate can be paraphrased by averbal form of the true predicate without loss ofthe core meaning of the expression (e.g.?lectured?
for ?gave a lecture?).
Also, asdiscussed in Section 6.1, our approach advocatesthe notion that the semantic argument structureof the light verb plus true predicate is differentfrom that of the expressions taken independently(as also proposed by Butt, 2004; Rosen, 1997;Grimshaw & Mester, 1988 among others).While these definitions are appropriate for thePropBank annotation task as we have presentedit, there are still cases that merit closer attention.Even English with a rather limited set of verbsthat are commonly cited as LVCs, includes aproblematic mixture of what could arguably betermed either LVCs or idiomatic expressions:?make exception?, ?take charge?.
This difficultyin part is the effect of frequency andentrenchment of particular constructions.
Thelight verbs themselves do not diminish in formover time in a manner similar to auxiliaries (Butt,2004), although the complements of commonLVCs can change over time such that it is nolonger clear that the complement is a predicatingelement.In the case of English, the expressions ?takecharge?
may be more commonly found today as aLVC than independently in its verbal form.
Aswe discovered with our annotators, nativeEnglish speakers are uncomfortable using theverb ?charge?
(i.e.
to burden with a4 The adjective ?another?
is annotated as the modifier of thefull predicate ?[make][appearance]?
as it can be interpretedto mean that the make appearance event happened aprevious appearance has been made.responsibility) as an independent matrix verb.
Asimilar phenomenon can be seen in Arabic,where the predicate ???
????
lit.
?release name?exemplifies a prototypical LVC that means ?toname?.
However, in our data we see cases inwhich the complement is missing, while thesemantics of the LVC remains intact:????
????
??
???????
?????
?CONJ REL be released.he PREP-him/itDEF-sector DEF-publiclit ?Or what is released to it ?the public sector??
?Or what is called/named ?the public sector.?
?This raises the question of: when does aconstruction that may have once been an LVCbecome more properly defined as an idiomaticexpression due to such entrenchment?
Idiomaticexpressions can potentially be distinguished fromLVCs through judgments of how fixed orsyntactically variable a construction is, and onthe basis of how semantically transparent ordecomposable the construction is (Nunberg et.al., 1994).
However, sometimes the dividing lineis hard to draw.A similar problem arises in determiningwhether a construction is a case of an LVC orsimply a usage with a distinct sense of the verb.Take, for example, the following Arabicsentence.??????
????
?take.he DEF-foodlit.
?
(he) took food?
?he ate?Here, the Arabic word ????
?food?
is the nounderivation of the root shared by the verb ????
?toeat?, in such a way that the sentence could berephrased as ????
?
(he) ate?.
This example fallsneatly into the LVC category.
However, furtherexamples suggest that the example is a case of adistinct sense of ?to take orally?
where therestrictions on the object are that the theme mustbe something that can be taken by mouth:??????
????
?take.he DEF-medicine?he took medicine???????
????
?take.he DEF-soup?he took soup?Finally, determining the appropriate criteria todistinguish between a truly semanticallybleached verb and verbs that seem to beparticipating in complex predication butcontribute more to the semantics of theconstruction is a challenge for all languages.
Forexample, in English data, there are potentialLVCs with verbs that are not often thought of aslight verbs, such as ?produce an alteration?
and88?issue a complaint?.
Although most Englishspeakers would agree that the verbs in theseconstructions do not contribute to the semanticsof the construction (e.g.
?issue a complaint?
canbe paraphrased to ?to complain?
), there aresimilar constructions such as ?register acomplaint,?
wherein the verb cannot beconsidered light.
For the purposes of annotation,where it is necessary for annotators to understandclear criteria for distinguishing light verbs, suchcases are highly problematic because there is nodeterministic way to measure the extent to whichthe verbal element contributes to the semanticsof the construction.
In turn, there is not a goodway to distinguish some of these borderlineverbs from their normal, heavy usages.Such problems can be resolved by establishinglanguage-specific semantic or syntactic tests thatcan be used for taking care of the borderlinecases of LVCs.
However, there is one otherplausible manner we have identified that couldhelp in detecting such atypical LVCs.
This canbe done by focusing on the argument structuresof predicating complements rather than focusingon the verbs themselves.
Grimshaw & Mester(1988) suggest that the formation of LVCsinvolves argument transfer from the predicatingcomplement to the verb, which is semanticallybleached and thematically incomplete andassigns no thematic roles itself.
Similarly,Stevenson et al (2004) suggest that theacceptability of a potential LVC depends on thesemantic properties of the complement.
Thus,atypical LVCs, such as the English construction?issue a complaint,?
can potentially be detectedduring the annotation of eventive nouns, plannedfor all PropBank languages.This process will make our treatment of LVCsmore comprehensive.
Used with our language-specific semantic and syntactic criteria relating toboth the verb and the predicating complement, itwill help us to more effectively capture as manytypes of LVCs as possible, including those of theV+ADJ and V+V varieties.8 Usefulness of our ApproachTwo basic approaches have previously beentaken to handle all types of MWEs, includingLVCs in natural language processingapplications.
The first is to treat MWEs quitesimply as fixed expressions or long strings ofwords with spaces in between; the second is totreat MWEs as purely compositional (Sag et al,2002).
The words-with-spaces approach isadequate for handling fixed idiomaticexpressions, but issues of lexical proliferationand flexibility quickly arise when this approachis applied to light verbs, which are syntacticallyflexible and can number in the tens of thousandsfor a given language (Stevenson et al, 2004; Saget al, 2002).
Nonetheless, large-scale lexicalresources such as FrameNet (Baker et al, 1998)and WordNet (Fellbaum, 1999) continue toexpand with entries that are MWEs.The purely compositional approach is alsoproblematic for light verbs because it isnotoriously difficult to predict which light verbscan grammatically combine with otherpredicating elements; thus, this approach leads toproblems of overgeneration (Sag et al, 2002).
Inorder to overcome this problem, Stevenson et al(2004) attempted to determine whichnominalizations could form a valid complementto the English light verbs take, give and make,using Levin?s (1993) verb classes to groupsimilar nominalizations.
This approach wasrather successful for take and give, butinconclusive for the verb make.Our approach can help to develop a resourcethat is useful whether one takes a words-with-spaces approach or a compositional approach.Specifically, for those implementing a words-with-spaces approach, the resulting PropBankannotation can serve as a lexical resource listingfor LVCs.
For those interested in implementing acompositional approach the PropBank annotationcan serve to assist in predicting likelycombinations.
Moreover, information in thePropBank Frame Files can be used to generalizeacross classes of nouns that can occur with agiven light verb with the help of lexical resourcessuch as WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), FrameNet(Baker et.
al., 1998), and VerbNet (Kipper-Schuler, 2005) (in a manner similar to theapproach of Stevenson et al (2004)).AcknowledgementsWe also gratefully acknowledge the support of theNational Science Foundation Grant CISE-CRI0709167, Collaborative: A Multi-Representationaland Multi-Layered Treebank for Hindi/Urdu, and agrant from the Defense Advanced Research ProjectsAgency (DARPA/IPTO) under the GALE program,DARPA/CMO Contract No HR0011-06-C-0022,subcontract from BBN, Inc.Any opinions, findings, and conclusions orrecommendations expressed in this material are thoseof the authors and do not necessarily reflect the viewsof the National Science Foundation.89ReferenceAlsina, A.
1997.
Causatives in Bantu and Romance.In A. Alsina, J. Bresnan, and P. Sells eds.
ComplexPredicates.
Stanford, California: CSLIPublications, p. 203-246.Baker, Collin F., Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.
1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet Project.
InProceedings of the 17th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics (COLING/ACL-98),pages 86?90, Montreal.
ACL.Butt, M. 2004.
The Light Verb Jungle.
In G. Aygen,C.
Bowern & C. Quinn eds.
Papers from theGSAS/Dudley House Workshop on Light Verbs.Cambridge, Harvard Working Papers inLinguistics, p. 1-50.Butt, M. 1997.
Complex Predicates in Urdu.
In A.Alsina, J. Bresnan, and P. Sells eds.
ComplexPredicates.
Stanford, California: CSLIPublications, p. 107-149.Fellbaum, Christine, ed.
: 1998, WordNet: AnElectronic Lexical Database, Cambridge, MA:MIT Press.Grimshaw, J., and A. Mester.
1988.
Light verbs and?-marking.
Linguistic Inquiry 19(2):205?232.Gildea, Daniel and Daniel Jurafsky.
2002.
AutomaticLabeling of Semantic Roles.
ComputationalLinguistics 28:3, 245-288.Goldberg, Adele E. 2003.
?Words by Default:Inheritance and the Persian Complex PredicateConstruction.?
In E. Francis and L. Michaelis(eds).
Mismatch: Form-Function Incongruity andthe Architecture of Grammar.
CSLI Publications.84-112.Kipper-Schuler, Karin.
2005.
VerbNet: A broadcoverage, comprehensive verb lexicon.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Pennsylvania.Levin, B.
1993.
English Verb Classes andAlternations: A Preliminary Investigation.Chicago: Chicago Univ.
Press.Meyers, A., R. Reeves, C. Macleod, R. Szekely, V.Zielinska, B.
Young, and R. Grishman.
2004.
TheNomBank Project: An interim report.
InProceedings of the HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop:Frontiers in Corpus Annotation, pages 24- 31,Boston, MA.
pages 430?437, Barcelona, Spain.Mohanan, T. 1997.
Multidimensionality ofRepresentation: NV Complex Predicates in Hindi.In A. Alsina, J. Bresnan, and P. Sells eds.
ComplexPredicates.
Stanford, California: CSLIPublications, p. 431-471.Martha Palmer, Rajesh Bhatt, Bhuvana Narasimhan,Owen Rambow, Dipti Misra Sharma, Fei Xia,Hindi Syntax: Annotating Dependency, LexicalPredicate-Argument Structure, and PhraseStructure, In the Proceedings of the 7thInternational Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing, ICON-2009, Hyderabad, India, Dec14-17, 2009Palmer, Martha, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The Proposition Bank: An Annotated Corpusof Semantic Roles.
Computational Linguistics,31(1):71?106.Pradhan, Sameer, Kadri Hacioglu, Valerie Krugler,Wayne Ward, James H. Martin, Daniel Jurafsky.2004.
Shallow Semantic Parsing using SupportVector Machines.
University of ColoradoTechnical Report: TR-CSLR 2003-03.Rosen, C. 1997.
Auxiliation and Serialization: OnDiscerning the Difference.
In A. Alsina, J.Bresnan, and P. Sells eds.
Complex Predicates.Stanford, California: CSLI Publications, p. 175-202.Sag, I., Baldwin, T. Bond, F., Copestake, A.,Flickinger, D. 2002.
Multiword expressions: Apain in the neck for NLP.
In Proceedings of tehThird International Conference on Intelligent Textprocessing and Computatinal Linguistics(CICLING 2002), p. 1-15, Mexico City, Mexico.ACL.Stevenson, S., Fazly, A., and North, R. (2004).Statistical measures of the semi-productivity oflight verb constructions.
In Proceedings of theACL-04 Workshop on Multiword Expressions:Integrating Processing, p. 1?8.90
