Proceedings of the Multiword Expressions: From Theory to Applications (MWE 2010), pages 2?10,Beijing, August 2010Computational Lexicography of Multi-Word Units:How Efficient Can It Be?Filip Gralin?skiAdam MickiewiczUniversityfilipg@amu.edu.plAgata SavaryUniversit?
Fran?oisRabelais,Institute ofComputer SciencePolish Academy of Sciencesagata.savary@univ-tours.frMonika CzerepowickaUniversity of Warmiaand Mazuryczerepowicka@gmail.comFilip MakowieckiUniversity of Warsawf.makowiecki@student.uw.edu.plAbstractThe morphosyntactic treatment of multi-word units is particularly challenging inmorphologically rich languages.
Wepresent a comparative study of two for-malisms meant for lexicalized descriptionof MWUs in Polish.
We show their ex-pressive power and describe encoding ex-periments, involving novice and expertlexicographers, and allowing to evaluatethe accuracy and efficiency of both imple-mentations.1 IntroductionMulti-word units (MWU) are linguistic objectsplaced between morphology and syntax: theirgeneral syntactic behavior makes them similar tofree phrases, while some of their idiosyncratic(notably from the morphological point of view)properties call for a lexicalized approach in whichthey are treated as units of description.
Moreover,MWUs, which encompass such classes as com-pounds, complex terms, multi-word named enti-ties, etc., often have unique and constant refer-ences, thus they are seen as semantically rich ob-jects in Natural Language Processing (NLP) ap-plications such as information retrieval.
One ofthe main problems here is the conflation of dif-ferent surface realizations of the same underlyingconcept by the proper treatment of orthographic(head word vs. headword), morphological (manservant vs. men servants), syntactic (birth datevs.
birth of date), semantic (hereditary diseasevs.
genetic disease) and pragmatic (Prime minis-ter vs. he) variants (Jacquemin, 2001).In this paper we are mainly interested in or-thographic, morphological, and partially syntacticvariants of contiguous MWUs (i.e.
not admittinginsertions of external elements).
Describing themproperly is particularly challenging in morpholog-ically rich languages, such as Slavic ones.We believe that the proper treatment of MWUsin this context calls for a computational approachwhich must be, at least partially, lexicalized,i.e.
based on electronic lexicons, in which MWUsare explicitly described.
Corpus-based machinelearning approaches bring interesting complemen-tary robustness-oriented solutions.
However takenalone, they can hardly cope with the following im-portant phenomenon: while MWUs represent ahigh percentage of items in natural language texts,most of them, taken separately, appear very rarelyin corpora.
For instance, (Baldwin and Villavi-cencio, 2002) experimented with a random sam-ple of two hundred English verb-particle construc-tions and showed that as many as two thirds ofthem appear at most three times in the Wall StreetJournal corpus.
The variability of MWUs is an-other challenge to knowledge-poor methods, sincebasic techniques such as lemmatisation or stem-ming of all corpus words, result in overgeneral-izations (e.g.
customs office vs. *custom office)or in overlooking of exceptions (e.g.
passersby).Moreover, machine learning methods cannot re-liably be used alone for less resourced languages.In such cases an efficient annotation of a large cor-pus needed for machine learning usually requiresthe pre-existence of e-lexicons (Savary and Pisko-rski, 2010).Despite these drawbacks machine learning al-lows robustness and a rapid development, while2knowledge-based methods in general have thereputation of being very labor intensive.
In thispaper we try to show how effective tools of thethe latter class can be.
We present two formalismsand tools designed in view of lexicalized MWUvariant description: Multiflex and POLENG.
Wediscuss their expressivity, mainly with respect toPolish.
We also show their applications and per-form their qualitative and quantitative compara-tive analysis.2 Linguistic Properties and LexicalEncoding of MWUsCompounds show complex linguistic propertiesincluding: (i) heterogeneous status of sepa-rators in the definition of a MWU?s compo-nent, (ii) morphological agreement between se-lected components, (iii) morphosyntactic non-compositionality (exocentricity, irregular agree-ment, defective paradigms, variability, etc.
), (iv)large sizes of inflection paradigms (e.g.
dozens offorms in Polish).
A larger class of verbal multi-word expressions additionally may show hugevariability in word order and insertion of externalelements.For instance in the Polish examples below: (1)requires case-gender-number agreement betweenthe two first components only, in (2) the compo-nents agree in case and number but not in gen-der, (3) admits a variable word order, (4) showsa depreciative paradigm (no plural), (5) includesa foreign lexeme inflected in Polish manner, (6)is characterized by a shift in gender (masculineanimate noun is the head of a masculine humancompound1), and (7) is a foreign compound withunstable Polish gender (masculine, neuter or non-masculine plural).
(1) Polska Akademia Nauk ?Polish Academyof Sciences?
(2) samoch?d pu?apka ?car bomb?
(3) subsydia zielone, zielone subsydia ?greensubsidies?
(4) areszt domowy ?house arrest?
(5) fast food, fast foodzie1There are three subgenders of the masculine in Polish.
(6) ranny ptaszek ?early bird?
(7) (ten/to/te) public relationsDue to this complex behavior, as well as to arich semantic content, MWUs have been a hottopic in international research for quite a num-ber of years (Rayson et al, 2010) in the contextof information retrieval and extraction, named en-tity recognition, text alignment, machine transla-tion, text categorization, corpus annotation, etc.
Inthis study we are interested in lexical approachesto MWUs, i.e.
those in which MWUs are ex-plicitly described on the entry-per-entry basis, inparticular with respect to their morpho-syntax.Earlier examples of such approaches include lexc(Karttunen et al, 1992), FASTR (Jacquemin,2001), HABIL (Alegria et al, 2004), and Mul-tiflex discussed below.
They mainly concentrateon contiguous nominal and adjectival MWUs,sometimes considering limited insertions of ex-ternal elements.
More recent approaches, suchas (Villavicencio et al, 2004), (Seretan, 2009)and (Gr?goire, 2010), increasingly address verbaland other non contiguous multi-word expressions(MWEs).
These studies are complemented by re-cent advances in parsing: robust and reliable syn-tactic analysis now available can be coupled withMWEs identification, and possibly also transla-tion.
The POLENG formalism discussed belowbelongs to some extent to this class of tools.
Whilethe processing of non contiguous MWEs is an im-portant step forward, the morphological phenom-ena in MWUs should still be addressed with preci-sion, in particular in inflectionally rich languages.Therefore we present below a comparative studyof Multiflex and POLENG based on an experimentwith encoding nominal and adjectival MWUs inPolish.3 MultiflexMultiflex (Savary, 2009) (Savary et al, 2009) isa graph-based cross-language morpho-syntacticgenerator of MWUs relying on a ?two-tier ap-proach?.
First, an underlying morphological mod-ule for simple words allows us to tokenize theMWU lemma, to annotate its components, and togenerate inflected forms of simple words on de-mand.
Then, each inflected MWU form is seen as3a particular combination of the inflected forms ofits components.
All inflected forms of an MWUand their variants are described within one graph.Compounds having the same morpho-syntacticbehavior are assigned to the same graph.
A uni-fication mechanism accounts for compact repre-sentation of agreement within constituents.
Forinstance, Fig.
1 presents the inflection graph forcompounds inflecting like example (3).
Its firstpath combines the first component $1 (here: sub-sydia) inflected in any case with the unchangedsecond component $2 (here: space) and a case-inflected third component $3 (here: zielone).The common unification variable $c imposes caseagreement between components $1 and $3.
Thesecond path describes the inverted variant of thisterm, in any of the cases.
The description betweenthe paths says that each resulting compound formagrees in case with components $1 and $3, andinherits its gender (Gen) and number (Nb) fromcomponent $1 as it appears in the MWU lemma(here: neutral-2 plural).Figure 1: Multiflex inflection graph for com-pounds inflecting like subsydia zielone.The main drawbacks of the formalism in-clude: (i) the difficulty of conflating variants ofMWUs containing numerical expressions (ulicaXI Poprzeczna, ulica Jedenasta Poprzeczna ?11thCross Street?
), (ii) impossibility of expressing re-lations existing between an MWU and external el-ements (e.g.
in German die Vereinten Nationen,Vereinte Nationen ?United Nations?).
Last but notleast, Multiflex is meant for describing only con-tiguous compounds, i.e.
those that admit no inser-tions of external elements (He made up his bloodymind.
).For the current study we are using a MWUencoding environment Topos?aw (Wolin?ski et al,2009), which integrates Multiflex along with themorphological analyser and generator for PolishMorfeusz (Savary et al, 2009), and the graph edi-tor from Unitex (Paumier, 2008).
Topos?aw speedsup the automated controlled encoding of MWUsby automatic look-up of constituents, filtering ofMWUs entries, as well as automatic graph cre-ation, debugging and filtering.4 POLENG FormalismBy the ?POLENG formalism?
we mean the for-malism used in the POLENG rule-based machinetranslation system (Jassem, 1996; Jassem, 2004)for the purposes of morphosyntactic descriptionof MWUs in bilingual lexicons.The POLENG formalism was designed withsimplicity, conciseness and practical applicabilityfor the MWU recognition and generation in mind,rather than care for nuances and theoretical co-herence or elegance.
As in Multiflex, a two-tierapproach was used; however all inflected formsof a MWU are described by means of a compact,linear string rather than a graph.
(One of the ad-vantages of using such an approach is that MWUdescriptions can be edited within a regular text in-put control and can be easily stored in a singledatabase field.)
For instance the term subsydiazielone from example (3) has the following de-scription:(8) N:5p[subsydium_N!
zielony_A]where:?
N is a part-of-speech tag (N = noun, i.e.
it isa nominal phrase),?
additional morphosyntactic flags are givenafter the colon ?
5 stands for the fifth (neuter)gender, p ?
stands for plural (i.e.
the phraseis used only in plural),?
the description of individual componentsis given in square brackets, namely thefirst component of subsydia zielone isthe lexeme identified with subsydium_N(i.e.
the noun subsydium ?subsidy?)
andthe second2 one ?
the lexeme identifiedwith zielony_A (i.e.
the adjective zielony?green?
); the main (head) component ismarked with !.2The space is not considered a MWU component.4Note that case, number and gender agreementbetween the MWU components is not imposed ex-plicitly.
It is rather assumed implicitly (by default,all inflected components of a nominal MWU mustagree in case, number and gender).
Such assump-tions have to be hard-coded into MWU recogni-tion/generation modules for particular languages?
this is the price one pays for the simplicity ofthe formalism.The order of the components of a MWUis assumed to be fixed (except for verbalMWUs, more on this later), e.g.
zielonesubsydia is not covered by (8), i.e.
a sep-arate entry zielone subsydia described asN:5p[zielony_A subsydium_N!]
mustbe entered.3The identifier of a lexeme is usually its baseform followed by an underscore and its part-of-speech tag (e.g.
subsydium_N).
In case ofhomonyms of the same part of speech, consec-utive numbers are appended.
For instance, thePolish verb upas?c?
?fall down?
is denoted withupas?c?_V and its homonym upas?c?
?fatten up?is denoted with upas?c?_V2.4 Homonym identi-fiers are assigned roughly in order of frequency.In POLENG, lexeme identifiers can be abbre-viated to the POS tag (followed by a number,if necessary) on condition that its base form isthe same as the form that is used in the baseform of the MWU.
For instance, in Example (a)in Table 15 N:3[N!
A] is an abbreviation forN:3[system_N!
operacyjny_A].A component of a MWU which is not inflected(in that particular MWU) is referred to simply as0, see Example (b) in Table 1.A lexeme identifier may be followed by a hy-phen and a so-called sublexeme tag if a subset ofinflected forms can be used in a given MWU, seeExample (c) in Table 1 (PA denotes active partici-ple forms and GR ?
gerundial forms).
Also addi-3Note that the position of the adjective may affect themeaning of a Polish MWU, e.g.
twardy dysk is a disk thathappens to be hard, whereas dysk twardy is a term (hard disk,HDD).4Both verbs have the same base form but different valenceand inflected forms.5All the examples in Table 1 are real entries from the lexi-con of the POLENG Polish-English machine translation sys-tem.tional flags may be specified, for instance in Ex-ample (d) the flag u is used (it means that the up-per case of the first letter is required).Polish verbal MWUs are treated in a differentmanner than other types of MWUs.
Namely thefixed order of components is not assumed, forinstance, in Example (e) in Table 1 each of thesix permutations of the main verb chodzic?
?walk?,the adverb boso ?barefoot?
and the prepositionalphrase po rosie ?through the dew?
is acceptable(the flag I denotes the imperfective aspect).
Theonly restriction is the fixed order of the compo-nents of the PP.
This restriction is specified usinground brackets.
What?s more, a verbal phrase doesnot need to be contiguous in a given sentence to berecognized by the POLENG system.
For example,the verbal MWU chodzic?
boso po rosie, describedas in Example (e), will be detected in the follow-ing sentence:(9) PoThroughrosiedewAnnaAnnachodzi?awalkeddzis?todayboso.barefoot.
?Anna walked barefoot through the dew today.
?POLENG allows for describing required (butnot fixed) constituents, using so-called slots, seeExample (f) in Table 1, where $L$ is a slot for anoun phrase in locative (note that slots are given inthe ?base form?
of a MWU, not in its description,where a slot is simply marked with 0).It is also possible to describe some relationsbetween MWUs and external elements (e.g.
be-tween a German MWU and an article, cf.
dieVereinten Nationen, Vereinte Nationen ?UnitedNations?)
within the POLENG formalism.
How-ever, this is achieved by rather ad hoc methods.The descriptions of MWUs does not have tobe entered manually.
The POLENG machinetranslation system is equipped with a special?translation?
direction in which a phrase can be?translated?
automatically into its description asa MWU.
New MWUs are usually described inthis automatic manner and are corrected manuallyif necessary (e.g.
while entering equivalents inother languages).
There are also tools for the au-tomatic detection of anomalies in MWU descrip-tions (e.g., cases when a Polish MWU was de-scribed as a nominal phrase and its English equiv-alent as a verbal phrase).5MWU English equivalent descriptiona.
system operacyjny operating system N:3[N!
A]b. ja?dro systemu operacyjnego kernel of an operating system N:5[N!
0 0]c. lekcewaz?a?ce mrugnie?cie deprecating wink N:5[lekcewaz?yc?_V-PA mrugna?c?_V-GR!]d.
Rzeczpospolita Polska Republic of Poland N:4[rzeczpospolita_N:u!
polski_A:u]e. chodzic?
boso po rosie walk barefoot through the dew V:I[V!
0 (0 0)]f. byc?
or?em w $L$ be a wizard at something V:I[V!
0 (0 0)]Table 1: Examples of MWUs annotated within the POLENG formalism.5 Comparative Evaluation5.1 Existing DataBoth POLENG and Multiflex have proved ade-quate for the large-scale lexicalized description ofMWUs in several languages and in different appli-cations.
Table 2 lists the lexical resources createdwithin both formalisms.The Multiflex formalism has been used for theconstruction of language resources of compoundsin various applications (Savary, 2009): (i) general-purpose morphological analysis, (ii) term extrac-tion for translation aid, (iii) named entity recogni-tion, (iv) corpus annotation.
The Multiflex imple-mentation has been integrated into several NLPtools for corpus analysis and resource manag-ment: Unitex (Paumier, 2008), WS2LR (Krstevet al, 2006), Prolexbase (Maurel, 2008), andTopos?aw (Wolin?ski et al, 2009).Language Type of data # entriesPOLENGPolish 286,000English 356,000Russian 26,000German 59,000MultiflexEnglish general language 60,000computing terms 57,000Polishgeneral language 1,000urban proper names 8,870economic terms 1,000Serbian general language 2,200French proper names 3,000Persian general language 277Figure 2: Existing MWU resources describedwith POLENG and Multiflex.The POLENG formalism has been used mainlyfor the description of MWU entries in Polish-English, Polish-Russian and Polish-German bilin-gual lexicons.
Another application of thePOLENG formalism was the description of multi-token abbreviations6 for the purposes of text6Such Polish expressions as, for example, prof. dr hab.,normalization in a Polish text-to-speech system(Gralin?ski et al, 2006).
The MWUs describedin this manner can be taken into account in thestand-alone, monolingual (Polish, English, Ger-man or Russian) POLENG parser as well.
De-scriptions compatible with the POLENG formal-ism are also dynamically generated by the NERT(named entity recognition and translation) mod-ule of the POLENG machine translation system,e.g.
for named entities denoting persons (Gral-in?ski et al, 2009).5.2 Describing New DataIn order to perform a qualitative and quantitativecomparative analysis of POLENG and Multiflexwe have performed an experiment with encodingnew linguistic data.
By ?encoding?
we mean as-signing a Multiflex inflection graph or a POLENGMWU description to each MWU.
Four distinctinitial lists of about 500 compounds each havebeen prepared: (i) two lists with compounds ofgeneral Polish, (ii) two lists with economical andfinancial terms.
About 80% of the entries con-sisted of 2 words.
One or two novice lexicogra-phers were to encode one list of (i) and one of (ii).7The two remaining lists were to be dealt with byan expert lexicographer.
Almost all entries werecompound common nouns although some con-tained proper name components (regu?a Ramseya?Ramsey rule?)
and some were compound adjec-tives (bia?y jak s?mierc?
?as white as death?
).Table 2 shows the time spent on each part ofthe experiment.
The training phase of each systemconsisted in watching its demo, reading the user?sdocumentation, making sample descriptions, anddiscussing major functionalities with experts.
Thesp.
z o.o., nr wersji.7The data was encoded by two novice lexicographers(one list each) in case of Multiflex and by one novice lexi-cographer in case of POLENG.6POLENG Multiflexnovice expert novice experttraining encoding encoding training encoding encodingGeneral language (about 500 entries) 5.5 h 6 h 4 h 3 h 23 h 7.5 hTerminology (about 500 entries) 4 h 5 h 3 h 3 h 20 h 12 hTable 2: Encoding time for two categories of lexicographers and two types of data.further encoding phase was performed by eachlexicographer on his own with rare interactionwith experts.Describing general language data provesslightly more time consuming for novice lexi-cographers due to exceptional behavior of someunits, such as depreciativity, gender variation,etc.
With Multiflex, the average speed of a novicelexicographer is of 21 and 27 entries per hour forthe general and terminological language, respec-tively.
In the case of an expert, these figures areof 36 and 67 entries per hour.
Thus, the encodingby an expert is about 1.6 and 2.5 times fasterthan by a novice for terminological and generallanguage, respectively.
The big difference in ex-pert encoding time between both data categoriescan be justified by the fact that terminologicaldata require domain-specific knowledge, andcontain more components per entry and moreembedded terms.
Nevertheless, the generallanguage compounds present more grammaticalidiosyncrasies such as depreciativeness, genderchange, etc.
The two novice lexicographersreported that it took them about 6 to 7.5 hours ofpersonal efforts (training excluded) in order togain confidence and efficiency with the formalismand the tools, as well as with the rather rich Polishtagset.
The Multiflex expert spent about 50%of her time on creating graphs from scratch andassigning them to MWUs.
As these graphs can bereused for further data, the future encoding timeshould drop even more.
Both novice and expertlexicographers heavily used the block workingmode and filtering options.With POLENG, the lexicographers were giventhe MWU descriptions generated automaticallyby the POLENG system (see Section 4).
As mostof these descriptions (90%) were correct, the lex-icographers?
work was almost reduced to revi-sion and approval.
Most errors in the descrip-tions generated automatically involved non-trivialhomonyms and rare words, not included in thePOLENG lexicons (e.g.
names of exotic curren-cies).Table 3 shows the quantitative analysis ofMWU inflection paradigms created by the expertlexicographer.8 Unsurprisingly, the 5 most fre-quent paradigms cover up to 77% of all units.They correspond to 3 major syntactic struc-tures (in Multiflex, possibly embedded): NounAdj (agencja towarzyska ?escort agency?
), NounNoungenitive (dawca organ?w ?organ donor?
), andAdj Noun (bia?y sport ?winter sport?
), with orwithout number inflection (adwokat/adwokaci di-ab?a ?devil?s advocate/advocates?
vs dzie?a wszys-tkie ?collected works?
), and some of them allow-ing for inversion of components (brat cioteczny,cioteczny brat ?cousin?).
Conversely, 33%through 57% of all Multiflex paradigms (about50% for POLENG) concern a single MWU each.In Multiflex delimiting embedded compounds al-lows to keep the number of paradigms reasonablylow, here 23 and 3 embedded MWU were identi-fied for terminological and general language, re-spectively (embedded MWUs are not allowed inPOLENG).With Multiflex some data remain erroneously oronly partially described after the experiment.
Ta-ble 4 shows the typology and quantities of prob-lems encountered by novice lexicographers:?
For general language, the high percentage oferrors in inflection paradigms is due to onerepeated error: lack of the number value.
Asthe full list of all inflection categories rele-vant to a class is explicitly known, this kindof errors may be avoided if the encodingtool automatically checks the completenessof morphological descriptions.8For the purposes of this analysis, POLENG lexeme iden-tifiers were reduced to POS-tags and some redundant mor-phosyntactic flags (gender and aspect flags) were erased.7POLENG Multiflex# inflectionparadigmscoverage of 5most frequentparadigms# single-entryparadigms# inflectionparadigmscoverage of 5most frequentparadigms# single-entryparadigmsGenerallanguage 58 72% 30 36 77% 12Terminology 46 77% 23 52 67% 30Table 3: Distribution of inflection paradigms defined in the experiment by the expert lexicographer.POLENG MultiflexEntries Inflectionparadigms Entriesincomplete errors non-MWUsin POLENG errorsredun-dancies incomplete errorsnon-optimaldescriptionGeneral language 2% 1.6% 0.4% 41% 22% 5% 1% 3%Terminology 3% 2.3% 0% 0% 23% 14% 0.7% 5%Table 4: Errors and imprecisions committed by novice lexicographers.?
Redundancies in graphs are mainly due toidentical or isomorphic graphs created sev-eral times.
A tool allowing to automaticallydetect such cases would be helpful.?
The incompletely described entries aremainly due to unknown single components.Despite its very high coverage, the mor-phological analyzer and generator Morfeuszlacks some single items9: general languagelexemes (radarowiec ?radar-operating po-liceman?
), rare currency units (cedi), foreignperson names (inflected in Polish, e.g.
Bev-eridge?owi), and borrowed terms (forwar-dowy ?forward-bound?).
Some rare wordsare homonyms of common words but theydiffer in inflection (lek ?Albanian currencyunit?).
It is thus necessary to incorporate anencoding tool for new general language orapplication-dependent single units.?
We consider the description of an entry nonoptimal if the data helpful for determiningthe inflection graph are not correctly indi-cated.
The effective graphs are however cor-rect here, and so are the resulting inflectedforms.?
The rate of actual errors, i.e.
inflection er-rors resulting from inattention or badly un-9Some problems with unknown words could be solved byintroducing a token boundary inside a word, thus obtaininga non inflected prefix and a known inflected core word, e.g.p?
?|hurtowy ?half-wholesale?.derstood formalism, is very low (?
1%)Some further problems stem from the limits ofeither Multiflex or Morfeusz design.
Firstly, unlikePOLENG, Multiflex does not allow to describecompounds having a lexically free but grammat-ically constrained element (?slots?, cf sec.
4).Secondly, inflection variants of single words,such as transformacyj ?transformationgen.pl.?
arenot distinguished in Morfeusz by grammaticalfeatures, thus it is impossible to forbid themin compounds via feature constraints (transfor-macji wolnorynkowych but not *transformacyjwolnorynkowych ?free market transformations?
).Thirdly, since depreciativity is modeled in Mor-feusz as inflectional class rather than category itis not easy to obtain depreciative forms of nounsfrom their base forms (ch?opi/ch?opy na schwa?
?lusty fellows?
).The following problems were encountered dur-ing the descriptions of MWUs with the POLENGformalism:?
As was the case with Multiflex, some sin-gle components (mainly of economical andfinancial compounds) were absent in thePOLENG Polish lexicon.
Nonetheless, in-flected forms of an unknown component canbe recognized/generated provided that theyend in frequent and regular suffixes (e.g.
insuffixes typical of adjectives such as -owy, -cyjny) ?
i.e.
?virtual?
lexemes are created ifneeded.
Otherwise, an unknown component8makes the recognition/generation of a givenMWU impossible.
However, the descrip-tion can be entered anyway, and as soon as amissing lexeme is entered into the POLENGlexicon, the MWU will be correctly recog-nized/generated.?
What is a multi-word unit is defined by thePOLENG tokenizer.
Some of the terms de-scribed in the experiment, such as by-pass,quasi-pienia?dz (quasi-money), are tokenizedas single terms by the POLENG tokenizerand, consequently cannot be covered by thePOLENG MWU formalism.?
As it was mentioned in Section 4, it is notpossible to cover variability in word orderwith one description in the POLENG formal-ism (unlike in Multiflex), the only exceptionbeing totally free order of verbal phrases.The same limitation applies to MWUs withalternative or optional components.
In suchcases, multiple MWUs have to be enteredand described separately.
However, in orderto avoid redundancy in bilingual lexicons, itis possible to link variant MWUs with so-called references (i.e.
an equivalent in thetarget language has to be specified for justone of them).?
The rate of actual errors is higher thanin Multiflex.
Most of them involve non-trivial homonyms and words absent fromthe POLENG lexicon.
If MWUs with suchwords were marked in some way for a lexi-cographer, the error rate would probably bemuch lower.6 ConclusionsMWUs show a complex linguistic behavior, par-ticularly in inflectionally rich languages, such asSlavic ones.
They call for descriptive formalismsthat allow to account for their numerous morpho-logical, syntactic and semantic variants.
We havepresented two formalisms used for the descriptionof MWUs in Polish, and we have performed acomparative analysis of the two formalisms.
Mul-tiflex aims at a precise and explicit description,as well as at adaptivity to different languages andmorphological models.
It allows to conflate manytypes of MWUs variants such as acronyms, inver-sions etc.
However its use is relatively slow, andnon contiguous units, or units containing semanti-cally free elements (?slots?
), cannot be described.See also (Savary, 2008) for a detailed contrastiveanalysis of Multiflex with respect to 10 other sys-tems for a lexical description of MWUs in dif-ferent languages such as (Karttunen et al, 1992),(Jacquemin, 2001), and (Alegria et al, 2004).POLENG offers a complementary approach: itincludes a faster semi-controlled encoding pro-cess, allows for the treatment of non contiguousunits or ?slots?, and was applied to more massivedata in professional machine translation.
Its for-malism is however more implicit, thus less inter-operable, and variant conflation can be done to alimited degree only.Encoding experiments involving both noviceand expert lexicographers showed that both toolscan be efficiently used for creating morphologi-cal resources of MWUs.
They also allowed to putforward further improvements of our tools suchas verifying the completeness of morphologicaldescription, checking paradigm identity, and en-coding new single-word entries.
Both tools areused for the morphological description of MWUsin different languages, notably Slavic ones, whichshow a rich inflection system.
They have beenused in various NLP applications: computationallexicography, machine translation, term extrac-tion, named entity identification, and text normal-ization.ReferencesAlegria, I?aki, Olatz Ansa, Xabier Artola, NereaEzeiza, Koldo Gojenola, and Ruben Urizar.
2004.Representation and Treatment of Multiword Ex-pressions in Basque.
In Proceedings of the ACL?04Workshop on Multiword Expressions, pages 48?55.Baldwin, Timothy and Aline Villavicencio.
2002.
Ex-tracting the unextractable: A case study on verb-particles.
In Proceedings of the 6th Conference onNatural Language Learning (CoNLL-2002), pages98?104.Gralin?ski, Filip, Krzysztof Jassem, Agnieszka Wagner,and Miko?aj Wypych.
2006.
Text normalization as9a special case of machine translation.
In Proceed-ings of International Multiconference on ComputerScience and Information Technology (IMCSIT?06),pages 51?56, Katowice.
Polskie Towarzystwo Infor-matyczne.Gralin?ski, Filip, Krzysztof Jassem, and Micha?
Mar-cin?czuk.
2009.
An environment for named entityrecognition and translation.
In Proceedings of the13th Annual Meeting of the European Associationfor Machine Translation (EAMT?09), pages 88?96,Barcelona.Gr?goire, Nicole.
2010.
DuELME: a Dutch electroniclexicon of multiword expressions.
Language Re-sources and Evaluation, 44(1-2).Jacquemin, Christian.
2001.
Spotting and DiscoveringTerms through Natural Language Processing.
MITPress.Jassem, Krzysztof.
1996.
Elektroniczny s?ownikdwuje?zyczny w automatycznym t?umaczeniu tekstu.PhD thesis.
Uniwersytet Adama Mickiewicza.
Poz-nan?.Jassem, Krzysztof.
2004.
Applying Oxford-PWNEnglish-Polish dictionary to Machine Translation.In Proceedings of 9th European Association for Ma-chine Translation Workshop, ?Broadening horizonsof machine translation and its applications?, Malta,26-27 April 2004, pages 98?105.Karttunen, Lauri, Ronald M. Kaplan, and Annie Zae-nen.
1992.
Two-Level Morphology with Compo-sition.
In Proceedings of the 14 th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COL-ING?92), Nantes, pages 141?148.Krstev, Cvetana, Ranka Stankovic?, Du?ko Vitas, andIvan Obradovic?.
2006.
WS4LR: A Workstationfor Lexical Resources.
In Proceedings of the 5thInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC 2006), Genoa, Italy, pages1692?1697.Maurel, Denis.
2008.
Prolexbase.
A multilingual re-lational lexical database of proper names.
In Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008),Marrakech, Marocco, pages 334?338.Paumier, S?bastien.
2008.
Unitex 2.1 User Manual.Rayson, Paul, Scott Piao, Serge Aharoff, Stefan Ev-ert, and Bego na Villada Moir?n, editors.
2010.Multiword expression: hard going or plain sailing,volume 44 of Language Resources and Evaluation.Springer.Savary, Agata and Jakub Piskorski.
2010.
Lexiconsand Grammars for Named Entity Annotation in theNational Corpus of Polish.
In Intelligent Informa-tion Systems, Siedlce, Poland, pages 141?154.Savary, Agata, Joanna Rabiega-Wis?niewska, andMarcin Wolin?ski.
2009.
Inflection of Polish Multi-Word Proper Names with Morfeusz and Multiflex.Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 5070:111?141.Savary, Agata.
2008.
Computational Inflection ofMulti-Word Units.
A contrastive study of lexical ap-proaches.
Linguistic Issues in Language Technol-ogy, 1(2):1?53.Savary, Agata.
2009.
Multiflex: a Multilingual Finite-State Tool for Multi-Word Units.
Lecture Notes inComputer Science, 5642:237?240.Seretan, Violeta.
2009.
An integrated environmentfor extracting and translating collocations.
In Pro-ceedings of the 5th Corpus Linguistics Conference,Liverpool, U.K.Villavicencio, Aline, Ann Copestake, Benjamin Wal-dron, and Fabre Lambeau.
2004.
Lexical Encodingof MWEs.
In ACL Workshop on Multiword Expres-sions: Integrating Processing, July 2004, pages 80?87.Wolin?ski, Marcin, Agata Savary, Piotr Sikora, andMa?gorzata Marciniak.
2009.
Usability improve-ments in the lexicographic framework Topos?aw.In Proceedings of Language and Technology Con-ference (LTC?09), Poznan?, Poland, pages 321?325.Wydawnictwo Poznan?skie.10
