Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, pages 80?87,Beijing, China, 21-22 August 2010. c?2010 Asian Federation for Natural Language ProcessingQuery Expansion for Khmer Information RetrievalChanna Van and Wataru KameyamaGITS, Waseda UniversityHonjo, Saitama, Japanchanna@fuji.waseda.jp, wataru@waseda.jpAbstractThis  paper  presents  the proposed QueryExpansion  (QE) techniques  based  onKhmer specific characteristics to improvethe retrieval performance of Khmer Infor-mation Retrieval (IR) system.
Four typesof Khmer specific characteristics: spellingvariants, synonyms, derivative words andreduplicative  words  have  been  investi-gated in this research.
In order to evalu-ate the effectiveness and the efficiency ofthe proposed QE techniques, a prototype ofKhmer IR system has been implemented.The system is built  on top of the popu-lar open source information retrieval soft-ware library Lucene1.
The Khmer wordsegmentation tool  (Chea et  al., 2007) isalso implemented into the system to im-prove the accuracy of indexing as well assearching.
Furthermore, the Google websearch engine is also used in the evalua-tion process.
The results show the pro-posed QE techniques improve the retrievalperformance both of the proposed systemand the Google web search engine.
Withthe reduplicative word QE technique, animprovement of 17.93% of recall can beachieved to the proposed system.1 IntroductionSimilar to the other major languages in the world,the  number  of  Khmer  digital  content  has  beenrapidly growing over the world-wide web, and it isbecoming very difficult to obtain the relevant in-formation as needed from the Internet.
Although1Apache Lucene: http://lucene.apache.orgsome major web search engine providers such asGoogle has a localized version of Khmer in its websearch engine2, it is not specifically designed forKhmer due to the lack of integration of Khmer spe-cific characteristics.
Consequently, it misses a lotof information of Khmer websites found in the In-ternet.
For this reason, we propose the QE tech-niques using the specific characteristic of Khmerto improve the effectiveness of Khmer IR system.Four types of QE technique are proposed basedon the four types of Khmer specific characteris-tic that are spelling variants, synonyms, deriva-tive words (Khin, 2007) and reduplicative words(Long, 2007).
Moreover, a prototype of Khmer IRsystem is implemented in order to evaluate the ef-fectiveness of these proposed QE techniques.
Theproposed system is  built  on  top  of  the  popularopen source information retrieval software libraryLucene in order to take the advantage from its pow-erful indexing and searching algorithms.
Further-more, to improve the accuracy of indexing andsearching, we have also implemented the specificKhmer word segmentation into the system.
Due tothe lack of Khmer text collection which is requiredin the evaluation process, we have also created ourown Khmer text corpus.
The corpus has been builtto be useful and beneficial to all types of the re-search in Khmer Language Processing.2 Khmer Specific CharacteristicsKhmer is the official language of Cambodia.
It isthe second most widely spoken Austroasiatic lan-guage family3.
Due to the long historical contact2Google Khmer: http://www.google.com.kh3Khmer language: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khmer_language80with India, Khmer has been heavily influenced bythe Sanskrit and Pali.
However, Khmer still pos-sesses its own specific characteristics so far suchas the word derivation rules and word reduplica-tion techniques.
Furthermore, the specific writtenrule is also found in Khmer, for instance the caseof multiple spelling words.
These characteristicsare very useful especially in the Khmer IR due tothe lexical-semantic relation between the words.2.1 Spelling VariantsIn Khmer, multiple spelling words exist.
Theyhave same meaning and pronunciation but onlydifferent in spelling.
Most of the spelling variantsare loan words, and others are the result of the sub-stitutability between characters.
For example:- The word?????
[s?m?t] ''sea'' ,which is orig-inated  from  Sanskrit, can  also  be  spelled??????
[s?m?t]  ''sea''  (Khmer  Dictionary,1967) which is originated from Pali.- And the word ?????
[r?
?tth?i] ''power'' has an-other  spelling ??????
[r?
?tth?i]  ''power''  because''?''
can be substituted by ''??
''.2.2 SynonymsSynonyms exist in all the natural languages.
Thus,there is no exception for Khmer as well.
Khmerhas  rich  and  variety  of  synonym  vocabularies.Most  of  these  synonyms are  found in  the  loanwords ( influenced by Sanskrit and Pali ) and thesocial status's words.
For instance the word ?????
''to eat'' has many synonyms for each social status:???
?
(impolite word), ????
(polite word),????
(reli-gious word),??
(royal word) and etc.2.3 Derivative WordsDerivative words in Khmer are the words whichare derived from the root words by affixation, in-cluding prefixation, infixation and suffixation (Jen-ner, 1969).
Interestingly, derivative word's mean-ing is semantically related to its root word.
Forexample:????
''old'' + ??
(prefix)???????
''very old''???
''to walk'' + ??
(infix)??????
''the walk''???????
''independence'' +???
(suffix)???????????
''the state of independence''2.4 Reduplicative WordsReduplicative words are very common in Khmer.They are used for several purposes including em-phasis, pluralization and complex thought expres-sions.
Three kinds of duplicating techniques arefound in Khmer: word duplication, synonym du-plication and symmetrical  duplication (Noeurngand Haiman, 2000).2.4.1 Word duplicationWord duplication is the process of duplicating aword to express pluralisation meaning.
The dupli-cation symbol ''?''
is put after the word to indicatethe duplication.
For example:??????
[chhke?
thum] ''a big dog''????????
[chhke?
thum thum] ''many big dogs''2.4.2 Synonym duplicationAlso called synonym compounding words.
Thiskind of words are created by combining two dif-ferent words which are either synonyms or relatedmeaning.
For example:????
''goal'' +???????
''intention''????????????
''goal and intention''2.4.3 Symmetrical duplicationSymmetrical duplication is the process of cre-ating a word by combining a word and its simi-lar phonetic syllables.
It is similar to create wordswhich sound like ''zigzag'' or ''hip hop'' in English.This duplication technique is usually used to em-phasize the meaning of the original word.
Thereare quite remarkable amount of this kind of wordsfound in Khmer.
For example:??
[thum] ''big'' + ???
[th?ng] (similar phoneticsyllable)??????
[thum th?ng] ''very big''???
[krei] (similar phonetic syllable) + ??
[krar]''poor''??????
[krei krar] ''very poor''3 Khmer Text CorpusA large collection of Khmer text is required in theevaluation process.
Due to the lack of Khmer lan-guage resource especially the Khmer text corpus,we have built our own Khmer text corpus.
The cor-pus was designed to be useful and beneficial to all81Figure 1: System Design of Building a Khmer Text Corpuskinds of the research in Khmer language process-ing.
Building such text corpus for Khmer is a chal-lenging task since there is no implementation yeton Khmer optical character recognition, and a fewresearch in Khmer have been done .
All texts haveto be collected manually from various Khmer web-site in the Internet.
The corpus includes some basiccorpus annotations such as word annotation, sen-tence annotation and part-of-speech annotation.
Itwas encoded in eXtensible Corpus Encoding Stan-dard (XCES) (Nancy et al, 2000) to assure the fu-ture extensibility.
Figure 1 illustrates the wholeprocess of building a Khmer text corpus in whichfour main steps were carried out: text collection,preprocessing tasks, corpus annotations and cor-pus encoding.
The detail of each step is describedin the following subsections:3.1 Text CollectionCollecting Khmer digital text is the most difficultand time consuming task in the process of build-ing this corpus.
As there is no implementation onKhmer optical character recognition, it is not pos-sible to scan or extract Khmer texts neither frombooks nor from other paper sources.
However,thanks to the websites as well as Khmer blog com-munity  that  provide the valuable  Khmer digitaltexts for this research.
All text were manually col-lected from all the available sources.3.2 Preprocessing TasksThe texts collected from the Internet are usuallynot clean and unstructured.
It may contain un-wanted elements such as images, links and someHTML elements.
Therefore, cleaning process iscarried out to remove the unwanted elements andto restructure the texts before proceeding to thenext step.After cleaning, each text is categorized by its do-main according to its content by the labeling pro-cess.
There are twelve domains in this corpus:newspaper, magazine, medical, technology, cul-ture, history, law, agriculture, essay, novel, storyand other.
The text descriptions such as author'sname, publisher's name, publishing date and pub-lisher's digital address, are kept along with eachtext.3.3 Corpus AnnotationsCorpus annotation information is very importantfor the corpus-based research.
Therefore, this cor-pus also includes the sentence annotation, word an-notation and POS annotation.3.3.1 Sentence AnnotationEach sentence is annotated with three kinds ofinformation: position, identification and length.1.
Position: it is defined by the position of thefirst character and the last character of a sen-tence in the text.822.
Identification: the sequence number of a sen-tence within a text file.3.
Length: the number of characters of a sen-tence.Like English, each sentence in Khmer can be sep-arated  by  special  symbols.
In  modern  Khmer,there exists a series of characters that are used tomark the boundaries of different kind of sentences(Khin, 2007).
Based on these characters, each sen-tence in a text can be separated easily.?
?
and ???
: end of declarative sentences.?
?
: end of interrogative sentences.?
!
: end of exclamative sentences.?
?
end of the last sentence in a text.3.3.2 Word AnnotationThe position, identification and length of eachword are also annotated as in sentence annotation.1.
Position: it is defined by the position of thefirst character and the last character of a wordin the text.2.
Identification: the sequence number of a wordwithin a text file.3.
Length: the number of characters of a word.Khmer is non-segmented script.
There is no sepa-rator between words which is very difficult to seg-ment.
In order to do that, we have used the Khmerword segmentation tool (Chea et al, 2007) devel-oped by PAN Localization Cambodia4.3.3.3 Part-of-Speech AnnotationTo enhance the usefulness of the corpus, we alsoinclude the Part-of-Speech annotation.
We haveused a Khmer POS tagger which is based on thework of Nou et al where a transformation-basedapproach with hybrid unknown word handling forKhmer POS tagger is proposed (Nou et al, 2007).There are 27 types of Khmer tagset which can beobtained by this Khmer POS tagger.
Each obtainedPOS tag is assigned to each word in the corpus, andit is kept along with the word annotation.4Cambodia  PAN Localization: http://www.pancambodia.info/3.4 Corpus EncodingTo assure the extensibility of corpus and the fa-cility of development for the future works, thiscorpus  has  been  encoded  in  eXtensible  CorpusEncoding Standard (XCES) (Nancy et al, 2000).XCES is an XML-based standard to codify textcorpus.
It is highly based on the previous Cor-pus Encoding Standard (Nancy, 1998) but usingXML as the markup language.
Since the corpusencoding is based on XML, the corpus is suitablefor many programming languages which supportXML.
Furthermore, it can fully take the advan-tage of the powerful XML framework includingXQuery, XPath and so on.
In addition, XCES sup-ports many types of corpora especially the annota-tion corpora which our corpus is based on.
The en-coding of annotation files and text description filesare conformed to XCES schema version 1.0.4.3.5 Corpus StatisticTable  1 shows  the  corpus  statistic.
We  haveachieved  more  than  one  million  words  withintwelve different domains of text.
The corpus sizeis relatively small at the moment, the expansion ofthe corpus size is continuously undergoing.Table 1: Corpus StatisticDomain # of Article # of Sentence # of WordNewspaper 571 13222 409103Magazine 52 1335 42566Medical 3 76 2047Technical 15 607 16356Culture 33 1178 43640Law 43 5146 101739History 9 276 7778Agriculture 29 1484 30813Essay 8 304 8318Story 108 5642 196256Novel 78 12012 236250Other 5 134 5522Total 954 41416 11003884 Retrieval EnvironmentThis section provides the necessary background tounderstand the context in which the experiment83Figure 2: Query Expansion Procedureswas carried out.4.1 Query Expansion ProceduresQuery Expansion is a technique commonly used inIR (Manning et al, 2009) to improve retrieval per-formance by reformulating the original query.
Wehave proposed four types of QE technique basedon the four types of Khmer specific characteristicsthat we have presented in the section 2.
Duringthe expansion process, the original search query isanalyzed and expanded corresponding to the typeof words (Figure 2).
Four types of QE is carriedout: spelling variants expansion, synonym expan-sion, derivative word expansion and reduplicativeword expansion.
The expanded query is obtainedafter adding the the expansion term to the originalquery.4.2 Khmer IR System Design andImplementationA prototype of Khmer IR system, which is shownin the Figure 3, has been implemented to evalu-ate the efficiency of the proposed QE techniques.There are two main processes in the system im-plementation: indexing and searching.
We havestarted to implement the system by constructingsearching index from the text corpus.
All texts inthe corpus are tokenized into words.
Then thesewords are indexed by the Lucene's indexer, andstored in an index database.
On the other hand inthe searching part, the search query is tokenizedinto words before being analyzed in the QE pro-cess.
Finally, the search results are obtained bythe Lucene's searcher which searches through theindex database and returns results that correspondto the expanded query.4.3 IndexingIndexing is very important because it determineswhat search results are returned when a user sub-mits  query.
Our  proposed  system's  indexer  isbased on the Lucene's  indexer with the modifi-cations adapted to Khmer language.
Lucene in-dexes a document by indexing the tokens, whichare words, obtained by tokenizing text of the doc-ument (Hatcher et al, 2009).
Since the defaultLucene's tokenizer can only work with segmentedwestern  languages  such  as  English  or  Frenchwhere spaces are used between each word, it isimpossible to tokenize document in Khmer whichbelongs to the class of non-segmenting languagegroup, where words are written continuously with-out using any explicit delimiting character.
Khmerword tokenizer, which is developed by the a re-search group of Cambodia PAN Localization, hasbeen used to handle this task.5 ExperimentsThe experiment to evaluate the proposed QE tech-niques was initially conducted only on the proto-type of the Khmer IR system that we have imple-mented.
As Google also has a localized Khmerversion of its popular web search engine, and itcan explicitly  specify websites  to be searched5,we have extended our experiment to Google websearch engine in order to obtain more precise re-sult.5.1 Experiment SetupThe Khmer text corpus, which consists 954 docu-ments collected from various websites in the In-5http://www.google.com/advanced_search84Figure 3: Proposed Khmer Information Retrieval System Designternet, was  used  for  the  experiments.
A web-site, which contains all documents from the cor-pus, was hosted in our laboratory's web server inorder that these documents can be indexed by theGoogle's indexer.
Then we followed up the index-ing progress by consulting the Google WebmasterTools6service.
In Khmer where words are writ-ten one after the other, word processing programs,Internet browsers and other programs that formattext need to know where they can cut a sentencein order to start a new line.
This kind of problemdoes not appear in the western languages wherespace are used between words.
Thus, the zero-width space character was proposed to solve thisproblem by inputting the zero-width space at theend of each word while typing7.
In Unicode, thezero-width space character is a type of space char-acter but it is invisible.
Using the zero-width spaceis very confusing because of the invisibility of thecharacter, plus it is unnatural to Khmer writing sys-tem.
As a result, most people only partly used itfor the text display purpose.
Therefore, we canfind the zero-width space in almost all Khmer textsfound in the Internet.
Since all texts in the cor-pus are collected from the Internet, the zero-width6http://www.google.com/webmasters/tools7Khmer Unicode typing: http://www.khmeros.info/download/KhmerUnicodeTyping.pdfspace also can be found in almost all the texts inthe corpus.
Based on the zero-width space charac-ter, the Google can separate and index the Khmertexts in our text corpus hosted in our laboratoryweb server.
After Google completely indexed allthe documents, the experiment was proceeded.5.2 Experiment ProceduresWe conducted the experiment for each type of pro-posed QE technique in our implemented systemand the Google web search engine.
Four similarexperiments of the four proposed QE techniqueswere carried out to the both systems.
Due to thesmall  size  of  the  text  corpus, only  ten  originalqueries have been chosen for each type of experi-ment.
Each query possesses a specific topic in or-der that we can judge the relevant results after.
Theexperiment processes are as following:1.
Input ten original queries into the both sys-tems, and calculate the precisions and recalls.All queries are selected from the different top-ics, and each query contains at least an ex-pandable word corresponding to its expansiontype.2.
Expand the original queries according to theirexpansion type.
Then input the ten expanded85Table 2: Results of Spelling Variants and Synonyms ExpansionsSpelling Variants SynonymsPrecision Recall F-measure Precision Recall F-measureGoogle 39.79% 46.72% 37.35% 38.91% 39.99% 34.66%Proposed Sys.
62.09% 47.63% 50.78% 46.74% 47.03% 44.71%Google & QE 46.83% 53.04% 46.13% 44.32% 58.99% 45.28%Proposed Sys.
& QE 60.73% 64.01% 58.38% 48.34% 64.59% 51.66%Table 3: Results of Derivative Word and Reduplicative Word ExpansionsDerivative Words Reduplicarive WordsPrecision Recall F-measure Precision Recall F-measureGoogle 28.35% 56.04% 36.56% 21.14% 42.61% 26.16%Proposed Sys.
41.07% 51.07% 44.10% 31.69% 39.05% 29.00%Google & QE 29.18% 60.41% 38.32% 24.69% 48.58% 26.35%Proposed Sys.
& QE 33.93% 62.38% 41.71% 34.28% 56.98% 36.25%queries into the both systems and recalculatethe precisions and recalls.The relevance judgments were manually donebased on the content of each document obtainedby the both IR systems.
Since there is no Khmerdigital thesaurus yet, the expansions were manu-ally done by respecting the query syntax of Luceneand Google8.
Moreover, as Google web searchengine  cannot  tokenize  Khmer  words, the  tok-enization was also done manually.
For example:the query ????????????????
''Khmer Rough tri-bunal'' consists two words ???????
''tribunal'' and?????????
''Khmer Rough''.
We know that the syn-onym of ???????
''tribunal'' is????????
''tribunal''.So the expanded query for our proposed system is''????????????????
OR ?????????????????''.
Onthe other hand, the expanded query for Google is''[???????
OR???????]?
AND?????????
''.5.3 Results and DiscussionTable 2 and 3 show the results of precision, re-call and F-Measure before and after implementingeach QE techniques to the proposed system andGoogle web search engine.
The improvement inrecall of our proposed system is 16.38%, 17.56%,11.31%, 17.93% after applying the respective QE8http://www.google.com/support/websearch/bin/answer.py?answer=136861techniques, while the increase in recall at 6.32%,19.00%, 4.37%, 5.97% after applying the QE tech-niques respectively to Google web search engine.In  addition, comparing  our  proposed  systemwith QE to Google web search engine without QE,the recall improvement is 17.29%, 24.60%, 6.34%,14.37% respectively, while to Google web searchengine with QE, the recall improvement is 10.97%,5.60%, 1.97%, 8.40% respectively.As a summary, the search results using our pro-posed system with QE techniques is significantlybetter than the conventional Google search results.This can be seen clearly from the improvement ofF-Measure 21.03%, 17.00%, 5.15%, 10.09% re-spectively.6 Conclusion and Future WorksIn this research, we have investigated four typesof QE technique based on Khmer linguistic char-acteristics.
These QE techniques are specificallydesigned to improve the retrieval performance ofKhmer IR System.
The experiments have demon-strated the improvement of retrieval performanceof the proposed system and the Google web searchengine after applying the proposed QE techniques.However, the improvement in precision after uti-lizing our proposed QE techniques is not so sig-nificant.
In the case of derivative words, it evenshows some slight decrement.
This is one of the86main problems that we will tackle in our future re-search to reduce non-relevant contents by seman-tically analyzing Khmer content.
At the momentthe size of the corpus is very small, and we are ac-tively dealing with this issue in hope to provide agood Khmer language resource for the future re-search in Khmer language processing.In addition, due to the lack of research in KhmerIR as well as in Khmer language processing, a lotof aspects can still be worked on in order to im-prove the system performance.
For example, theimprovement  of  Khmer word segmentation andthe building of Khmer thesaurus for IR system,which are expected to improve the IR system per-formance, are also in the priority tasks of our futureworks.ReferencesBeaulieu, Micheline and Susan Jones.
1998.
Inter-active searching and interface issues in the Okapibest match probabilistic retrieval system.
Interact-ing With Computers, 10(3):237--248.Buddhist Institute.
1967.
??????????????
?
''Khmer Dic-tionary''.
Buddhist Institute, Phnom Penh, Cambo-dia.Chea, Sok-Huor, Rithy  Top, Pich-Hemy Ros, NavyVann, Chanthirith  Chin  and  Tola  Chhoeun.2007.
Word  Bigram  Vs  Orthographic  Syl-lable  Bigram  in  Khmer  Word  Segmentation.http://www.panl10n.net/english/OutputsCambodia1.htm, (Last retrieved 30 April 2010).Hatcher, Erik, Otis Gospodnetic?
and Michael McCand-less.
2009.
Lucene in Action, Second Edition.
Man-ning Publications, Connecticut, USA.Ide, Nancy 1998.
Corpus Encoding Standard: SGMLGuidelines for Encoding Linguistic Corpora.
In Pro-ceedings  of  the  First  International  Language Re-sources and Evaluation Conference, pp.
463-70.Ide, Nancy, Patrice Bonhomme and Laurent Romary2000.
XCES: An XML-based standard for linguis-tic  corpora.
In Proceeding  of  Second LanguageResources and Evaluation Conference (LREC), pp.825--830, Athens.
Greece.Jenner, Philip Norman.
1969.
Affixation in modernKhmer.
A dissertation submitted to the graduate di-vision, University of Hawaii.Khin, Sok.
2007.
??????????????????
?
''Khmer Gram-mar''.
Royal Academy of Cambodia, Phnom Penh,Cambodia.Long, Siem.
1999.
???????????????????????
?
''KhmerLexicology  Problem''.
National  Language  Insti-tute, Royal University of Phnom Penh, Phnom Penh,Cambodia.Manning, Christopher  D., Prabhakar  Raghavan  andHinrich Sch?tze 2009.
An Introduction to Informa-tion Retrieval.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England.Nou, Chenda and Wataru Kameyama 2007.
KhmerPOS Tagger: A Transformation-based  Approachwith Hybrid Unknown Word Handling.
In Proceed-ing of International Conference on Semantic Com-puting (ICSC), pp.
482--492.
Irvine, USA.Ourn, Noeurng and John Haiman.
2000.
SymmetricalCompounds in Khmer.
Studies in Language.
24(3),pp.
483--514.Singhal, Amit.
2001.
Modern Information Retrieval:A Brief Overview.
Bulletin of the IEEE ComputerSociety Technical Committee on Data Engineering,24(4):35--43.87
