Research of People Disambiguation by CombiningMultiple knowledgesErlei MaSchool of computer science andtechnology, harbin institute of tech-nologyelma@insun.hit.edu.cnYuanchao LiuSchool of computer science and technology,harbin institute of technologyycliu@hit.edu.cnAbstractWith the rapid development of Internetand many related technology, Web hasbecome the main source of information.For many search engines, there aremany different identities in the returnedresults of character information query.Thus the Research of People disambig-uation is important.
In this paper we at-tempt to solve this problem by combingdifferent knowledge.
As people usuallyhave different kind of careers, so we firstutilize this knowledge to classify peopleroughly.
Then we use social context ofpeople to identify different person.
Theexperimental results show that theseknowledge are helpful for people disam-biguation.1 IntroductionFor the real world, many people share onename; this is a very common phenomenon.
Ac-cording to the third national census sample sur-vey conducted by the State Language Commit-tee in 1989, the duplicate names rate for singlename was 67.7%, whereas that of double namewas 32.4%.There are two commonly used name disam-biguation approach, one is based on the vectorspace model, and the other is based on so-cial networks.The first is text-based vector space clusteringapproach.
An entity can be expressed as onevector which is formed according to the contentword of the original document.
And then the si-milarity is used to merge documents or classifydocuments.The second method is based on social net-works.
The first step of the method is to buildsocial networks, by analyze the relationship ofdifferent people.
Generally if two people?s namealways occurs in same document or very nearcontext ,they will have close relations, one ofthem will be helpful for disambiguate the other.In this paper, we first use the domain of cha-racter?s document to classify roughly, and thencontext information using social networking isconsidered again to disambiguate person?sname again.2 the principle of our systemFig.1.
shows the basic principle of our system.The basic steps are:Fig.1.
the general framework of our approach1?
documents with same people?s nameare input;2?
classify these documents into seven ca-reers which include Cultural, adminis-trative, military, science, education,sports, health, economic and etc;3?
Judge if the people are reporter in doc-ument, if yes; separate them accordingto their address.4?
Separate documents by using socialnetworks.
This is because differentpeople usually have different social re-lations.
Different social relations usual-ly means different people and differentidentity.
The social network of onepeople is gained by counting its co-occur frequency with other peoples.3 experimental results3.1 evaluation methodHere are the evaluation formula provided by SIG-HAN 2010:j iii jRSiS| S R |Precision|S |max RSiS???
?= ?
?
?1?j iii jSRiR| R S |Recall|R |max SRiR???
?= ?
?
?2?B-Cubed ?j ji iii jS ; SR RiiR|R S ||R |Recall =|R |max S dR diR?
??
????
??
?3?j ji iii jR ; RS SiiS|S R ||S | Pr ecision =|S |max R dS diS?
??
????
??
?4?2 Pr RePr Rei iii iecision callF measureecision call?
??
= +      ?5?The overall precision and recall is as follows:11Pr Prniiecision ecisionn == ?
?6?11Re Reniicall calln == ?
?7?11 niiF measure F measuren =?
= ??
?8?3.2 The performance of our systemBy only utilizing the career domain know-ledge, the performance is shown in table 1.
Ob-viously the people in this division of the sevencategories, the accuracy is low and the recallrates were high.
The reasons include the follow-ing:First, in he document pre-classificationprocessing, the named entity recognition has notbeen carried out in the text dealing with the clas-sification of the document.
Some of them are notthe people?s name.Second, different people may have same do-main, thus the accuracy is adversely affected.Table 1 .
The performance after the first-step classificationprecision recall FmeasureB-Cube 28.78 99.97 44.69P_IP42.82 99.97 59.96By adding the knowledge of social networks,the performance is shown in Fig.2-Fig.3.Fig.2 result of B-CubedFig.3.
result of P_IPClearly the experiment showed that aftermatching character society attribute information,the recall rate increased significantly, and the Fvalue also have increased.
.4 SummariesIn this paper, we utilize two kind of knowledges:1) people always have his own career; 2) peoplehave his own social circle.
We think these in-formation will be more helpful for disambiguation.Thus we attempt to solve this problem by com-bing different knowledge.
As people usually0102030405060708090100?
?-2 ?
?-3 ??-4??????F_score0102030405060708090100?
?-2 ?
?-3 ??-4?????
?F_scorehave different kind of careers, so we first utilizethis knowledge to classify people roughly.
Thenwe use social context of people to identify differ-ent person.
In the future we wish to address thefollowing aspects: 1) add and improve namerecognition accuracy; 2) extract and select theuseful context of person?s name, which is theproblem of information extraction; 3) recognizesome kind of public people such as politicalleaders, famous singers and etc.
to improve theeffect of social networks.References[1]Amit Bagga and Breck Baldwin.Entity BasedCross-Document Coreferencing Using the VectorSpace Model In Proceedings of the 36th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics and the 17th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics(COLING-ACL?98),1998 :79-85.
[2] Gideon S. Mann and David Yarowsky.
Unsuper-vised Personal Name Disambiguation In Proceed-ings of the seventh conference on Natural lan-guage learning at HLT-NAACL, 2003: 33-40.
[3] Bollegala, D., Y. Matsuo, M. Ishizuka.
Disambi-guating Personal Names on the Web Using Auto-matically Extracted Key Phrases.
In: GerhardBrewka, Silvia Coradeschi, Anna Perini, PaoloTraverso, eds.
Proc.
of the 17th European Confe-rence on Artificial Intelligence.
Riva del Garda, It-aly: IOS Press, 2006:553-557[4] Bekkerman, Ron, Andrew McCallum.
Disambi-guating Web Appearances of People in a SocialNetwork.
In: Allan Ellis, Tatsuya Hagino , eds.Proc.
of the 14th international conference onWorld Wide Web.
Chiba, Japan: ACM Press,2005:463-470[5] Javier Artiles, Julio Gonzalo, Satoshi Sekine.
TheSemEval-2007 WePS Evaluation: Establishing abenchmark for the Web People Search Task.
IN:Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop onSemantic Evaluations (SemEval-2007),2007: 64?69[6] Malin, Bradley.
Unsupervised Name Disambigua-tion via Social Network Similarity.
In: Hillol Kar-gupta, Jaideep Srivastava, Chandrika Kamath, Ar-nold Goodman, eds.
Proc.
of the Workshop onLink Analysis, Counterterrorism, and Security, inconjunction with the SIAM International Confe-rence on Data Mining.
Newport Beach, California,USA: SIAM, 2005:93-102[7 ?]
Nahm, U. Y. and Mooney, R. J.
Text Miningwith Information Extraction.
In Proceedings of theAAAI 2002 Spring Symposium on Mining An-swers from Texts and Knowledge Bases, Stanford,CA, March 2002: 60-67.
[8] Yang, Y., and Jan O. Pedersen.
A comparativestudy on Feature Selection in Text Categorization.Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Confe-rence on Machine Learning Table of Contents,1997: 412-420.
