Textual Emotion Processing From Event AnalysisChu-Ren Huang?, Ying Chen*?, Sophia Yat Mei Lee?
?Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies * Department of Computer EngineeringThe Hong Kong Polytechnic University China Agricultural University{churenhuang, chenying3176, sophiaym}@gmail.comAbstractTextual emotion recognition has gained a lot ofattention recent years; it is however less devel-oped due to the complexity nature of emotion.
Inthis paper, we start with the discussion of a num-ber of fundamental yet unresolved issues concern-ing emotion, which includes its definition,representation and technology.
We then proposean alternative solution for emotion recognitiontaking into account of emotion causes.
Two pilotexperiments are done to justify our proposal.
Thefirst experiment explores the impact of emotionrecognition.
It shows that the context contains richand crucial information that effectively help emo-tion recognition.
The other experiment examinesemotion cause events in the context.
We find thatmost emotions are expressed with the presence ofcauses.
The experiments prove that emotion causeserves as an important cue for emotion recognition.We suggest that the combination of both emotionstudy and event analysis would be a fruitful direc-tion for deep emotion processing.1 IntroductionThe study of emotion attracts increasingly greaterattention in the field of NLP due to its emergingwide applications, such as customer care (Gupta etal., 2010), and social information understanding(Lisa and Steyvers, 2010).
In contrast to sentiment,which is the external subjective evaluation, emo-tion mainly concentrates on the internal mentalstate of human (Ortony et al, 1987).
Emotion isindeed a highly complicated concept that raises alot of controversies in the theories of emotion re-garding the fundamental issues such as emotiondefinition, emotion structure and so on.
The com-plexity nature of emotion concept makes auto-matic emotion processing rather challenging.Most emotion studies put great effort on emo-tion recognition, identifying emotion classes, suchas happiness, sadness, and fear.
On top of thissurface level information, deeper level informa-tion regarding emotions such as the experiencer,cause, and result of an emotion, needs to be ex-tracted and analyzed for real world applications.In this paper, we discuss these two closely relatedemotion tasks, namely emotion recognition andemotion cause detection and how they contributeto emotion processing.For emotion recognition, we construct an emo-tion corpus for explicit emotions with an unsuper-vised method.
Explicit emotions are emotionsrepresented by emotion keywords such as e.g.,?shocked?
in ?He was shocked after hearing thenews?.
In the course of emotion recognition, thekeyword in an explicit emotion expression is de-leted and only contextual information remains.
Inour pilot experiments, the context-based emotionidentification works fairly well.
This implies thatplenty of information is provided in the contextfor emotion recognition.
Moreover, with an in-depth analysis of the data, we observe that it isoften the case that emotions co-occur and interactin a sentence.
In this paper, we deal with emotionrecognition from a dependent view so as to cap-ture complicated emotion expressions.Emotion is often invoked by an event, which inturn is very likely to elicit an event (Descartes1649, James 1884, Plutchik 1980, Wierzbicka1999).
Despite the fact that most researches rec-ognize the important role of events in emotiontheories, little work, if not none, attempts to makeexplicit link between events and emotion.
In thispaper, we examine emotion constructions basedon contextual information which often containsconsiderable relevant eventive information.
Inparticular, the correlations between emotion andcause events will be explored based on empiricaldata.
Emotion causes refer to explicitly expressedpropositions that evoke the corresponding emo-tions.To enhance emotion recognition, we examineemotion causes occurring in the context of anemotion.
First, we manually annotate causes foremotions in our explicit emotion corpus.
Since anemotion cause can be a complicated event, wemodel emotion cause detection as a multi-labelproblem to detect a cross-clause emotion cause.Furthermore, an in-depth linguistic analysis isdone to capture the different constructions in ex-pressing emotion causes.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2discusses some related work regarding emotionrecognition and emotion cause detection.
In Sec-tion 3, we present our context-based emotion cor-pus and provide some data analysis.
Section 4describes our emotion recognition system, anddiscusses the experiments and results.
In Section 5,we examine our emotion cause detection system,and discuss the performances.
Finally, Section 6concludes our main findings for emotion process-ing from the event perspective.2 Related WorkMost current emotion studies focus on the task ofemotion recognition, especially in affective lexi-con construction.
In comparison with emotionrecognition, emotion cause detection is a rathernew research area, which account for emotionsbased on the correlations between emotions andcause events.
This section discusses the relatedresearch on emotion recognition and emotioncause detection.2.1 Emotion RecognitionAlthough emotion recognition has been inten-sively studied, some issues concerning emotionremain unresolved, such as emotion definition,emotion representation, and emotion classificationtechnologies.For the emotion definition, emotion has beenwell-known for its abstract and uncertain defini-tion which hinders emotion processing as a whole.Ortony et al, (1987) conducted an empirical studyfor a structure of affective lexicon based on the~500 words used in previous emotion studies.However, most of the emotion corpora in NLP tryto avoid the emotion definition problem.
Instead,they choose to rely on the intuition of annotators(Ren?s Blog Emotion Corpus, RBEC, Quan andRen, 2009) or authors (Mishne?s blog emotioncorpus, Mishne, 2005).
Therefore, one of the cru-cial drawbacks of emotion corpora is the problemof poor quality.
In this paper, we explore emotionannotation from a different perspective.
We con-centrate on explicit emotions, and utilize theircontextual information for emotion recognition.In terms of emotion representation, textualemotion corpora are basically annotated using ei-ther the enumerative representation or the compo-sitional representation (Chen et al, 2009).
Theenumerative representation assigns an emotion aunique label, such as pride and jealousy.
Thecompositional representation represents an emo-tion through a vector with a small set of fixed ba-sic emotions with associated strength.
For instance,pride is decomposed into ?happiness + fear?
ac-cording to Turner (2000).With regard to emotion recognition technolo-gies, there are two kinds of classification models.One is based on an independent view (Mishne,2005; Mihalcea and Liu, 2006; Aman and Szpa-kowicz, 2007; Tokuhisa et al, 2008; Strapparavaand Mihalcea, 2008), and the other is a dependentview (Abbasi et al 2008; Keshtkar and Inkpen,2009).
The independent view treats emotions sep-arately, and often chooses a single-label classifica-tion approach to identify emotions.
In contrast, thedependent view takes into account complicatedemotion expressions, such as emotion interactionand emotion co-occurrences, and thus requiresmore complicated models.
Abbasi et al (2008)adopt an ensemble classifier to detect the co-occurrences of different emotions; Keshtkar andInkpen (2009) use iteratively single-label classifi-ers in the top-down order of a given emotion hier-archy.
In this paper, we examine emotionrecognition as a multi-label problem and investi-gate several multi-label classification approaches.2.2 Emotion Cause DetectionAlthough most emotion theories recognize theimportant role of causes in emotion analysis (Des-cartes, 1649; James, 1884; Plutchik, 1962; Wierz-bicka 1996), yet very few studies in NLP explorethe event composition and causal relation of emo-tions.
As a pilot study, the current study proposesan emotion cause detection system.Emotion cause detection can be considered as akind of causal relation detection between twoevents.
In other words, emotion is envisioned asan event type which triggers another event, i.e.cause event.
We attempt to examine emotioncause relations for open domains.
However, notmuch work (Marcu and Echihabi, 2002; Girju,2003; Chang and Choi, 2006) has been done onthis kind of general causal relation for open do-mains.Most existing causal relation detection systemscontain two steps: 1) cause candidate identifica-tion; 2) causal relation detection.
However, Step 1)is often oversimplified in real systems.
For exam-ple, the cause-effect pairs are limited to two nounphrases (Chang and Choi, 2005; Girju, 2003), ortwo clauses connected with selected conjunctionwords (Marcu and Echihabi, 2002).
Moreover, thetask of Step 2) often is considered as a binaryclassification problem, i.e.
?causal?
vs. ?non-causal?.With regard to feature extraction, there are twokinds of information extracted to identify thecausal relation in Step 2).
One is constructionsexpressing a cause-effect relation (Chang andChoi, 2005; Girju, 2003), and the other is seman-tic information in a text (Marcu and Echihabi,2002; Persing and Ng, 2009), such as word pairprobability.
Undoubtedly, the two kinds of infor-mation often interact with each other in a realcause detection system.3 Emotion Annotated Sinica Corpus(EASC)EASC is an emotion annotated corpus comprisingtwo kinds of sentences: emotional-sentence corpusand neutral-sentence corpus.
It involves two com-ponents: one for emotion recognition, which iscreated with an unsupervised method (Chen et al2009), and the other is for emotion cause detection,which is manually annotated (Chen et al 2010).3.1 The Corpus for Emotion RecognitionWith the help of a set of rules and a collection ofhigh quality emotion keywords, a pattern-basedapproach is used to extract emotional sentencesand neutral sentences from the Academia SinicaBalanced Corpus of Mandarin Chinese (SinicaCorpus).
If an emotion keyword occurring in asentence satisfies the given patterns, its corre-sponding emotion type will be listed for that sen-tence.
As for emotion recognition, each detectedkeyword in a sentence is removed, in other words,the sentence provides only the context of thatemotion.
Due to the overwhelming of neutral sen-tences, EASC only contains partial neutral sen-tences besides emotional sentences.
Forexperiments, 995 sentences are randomly selectedfor human annotation, which serve as the test data.The remaining 17,243 sentences are used as thetraining data.In addition, in the course of creating the emo-tion corpus, Chen et al (2009) list the emotionlabels in a sentence using the enumerative repre-sentation.
Besides, an emotion taxonomy is pro-vided to re-annotate an emotion with thecompositional representation.
With the taxonomy,an emotion is decomposed into a combination ofprimary emotions (i.e.
happiness, fear, anger,sadness, and surprise).From this corpus, we observe that ~54% emo-tional sentences contain two emotions, yet only~2% sentences contain more than two emotions.This implies emotion recognition is a typical mul-ti-label problem.
Particularly, more effort shouldbe put on the co-occurrences of two emotions.3.2 The Corpus for Emotion Cause De-tectionMost emotion theories agree that the five primaryemotions (i.e.
happiness, sadness, fear, anger, andsurprise) are prototypical emotions.
Therefore, foremotion cause detection, we only deal with theemotional sentences containing a keyword repre-senting one of these primary emotions.
Beyond afocus sentence, its context (the previous sentenceand the following sentence) is also extracted, andthose three sentences constitute an entry.
Afterfiltering non-emotional and ambiguous sentences,5,629 entries remain in the emotion cause corpus.Each emotion keyword is annotated with itscorresponding causes if existing.
An emotionkeyword can sometimes be associated with morethan one cause, in such a case, both causes aremarked.
Moreover, the cause type is also identi-fied, which is either a nominal event or a verbalevent (a verb or a nominalization).From the corpus, we notice that 72% of the ex-tracted entries express emotions, and 80% of theemotional entries have a cause, which means thatcausal event is a strong indicator for emotion rec-ognition.Furthermore, since the actual cause can some-times be so complicated that it involves severalevents, we investigate the span of a cause text asfollows.
For each emotion keyword, an entry issegmented into clauses with some punctuations,and thus an entry becomes a list of cause candi-dates.
In terms of the cause distribution, we find~90% causes occurring between ?left_2?
and?right_1?.
Therefore, our cause search is limited tothe list of cause candidates which contains fivetext units, i.e.
<left_2, left_1, left_0, right_0,right_1>.
If the clause where emotion keywordlocates is assumed as a focus clause, ?left_2?
and?left_1?
are the two previous clauses, and ?right_1?is the following one.
?left_0?
and ?right_0?
are thepartial texts of the focus clause, which locate inthe left side of and the right side of the emotionkeyword, respectively.
Finally, we find that ~14%causes occur cross clauses.4 Emotion Processing with multi-labelmodels4.1 Multi-label Classification for Emo-tion recognitionBased on our corpus, two critical issues for emo-tion recognition need to be dealt with: emotioninteraction and emotion co-occurrences.
Co-occurrence of multiple emotions in a sentencemakes emotion recognition a multi-label problem.Furthermore, the interaction among different emo-tions in a sentence requires a multi-label model tohave a dependent view.
In this paper, we exploretwo simple multi-label models for emotion recog-nition.The Binary-based (BB) model: decompose thetask into multiple independent binary classifiers(i.e., ?1?
for the presence of one emotion; ?0?
forthe absence of one emotion), where each emotionis allocated a classifier.
For each test instance, alllabels (emotions) from the classifiers compose avector.The label powset (LP) model: treat each possiblecombination of labels appearing in the trainingdata as a unique label, and convert multi-labelclassification to single-label classification.Both the BB model and the LP model need amulti-class classifier.
For our experiment, wechoose a Max Entropy package, Mallet1.
In thispaper, we use only words in the focus sentence asfeatures.4.2 Emotion Recognition ExperimentsTo demonstrate the impact of our context-basedemotion corpus to emotion recognition, we com-pare EASC data to Ren?s Blog Emotion Corpus(RBEC).
RBEC is a human-annotated emotioncorpus for both explicit emotions and implicitemotions.
It adopts the compositional representa-tion with eight emotion dimensions (anger, anxi-ety, expect, hate, joy, love, sorrow, and surprise).For each dimension, a numerical value ranging in{0.0, 0.1, 0.2... 1.0} indicates the intensity of theemotion in question.
There are totally 35,096 sen-tences in RBEC.
To fairly compare with theEASC data, we convert a numerical value to abinary value.
An emotion exists in a sentence onlywhen its corresponding intensity value is greaterthan 0.For RBEC data, we use 80% of the corpus asthe training data, 10% as the development data,and 10% as the test data.
For EASC, apart fromthe test data, we divide its training data into twosets: 90% for our training data, and 10% for ourdevelopment data.
For evaluation of a multi-labeltask, three measures are used: accuracy (extractmatch ratio), Micro F1, and Macro F1.
Accuracyis the extract match ratio of the whole assignmentsin data, and Micro F1 and Macro F1 are the aver-1http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/Table 1: The overall performances for the multi-label modelsage scores of F scores of all possible values for allvariables.
Micro F1 takes the emotion distributioninto account, while Macro F1 is just the averageof all F scores.
Note that due to the overwhelmingpercentage of value 0 in the multi-label task, dur-ing the calculating of Micro F1 and Macro F1,most previous multi-label systems take only value1 (indicating the existence of the emotion) intoaccount.In Table 1, we notice that the emotion recogni-tion system on our context-based corpus achievessimilar performance as the one on human-annotated corpus.
This implies that there is richcontextual information with respect to emotionidentification.5 Emotion Cause DetectionMost emotion theories agree that there is a strongrelationship between emotions and events (Des-cartes 1649, James 1884, Plutchik 1980, Wierz-bicka 1999).
Among the rich information in thecontext of an emotion, cause event is the mostcrucial component of emotion.
We therefore at-tempt to explore emotion causes, and extractcauses for emotion automatically.5.1 Emotion Cause DetectionBased on the cause distribution analysis in Section3.2, in contrast to binary classification used inprevious work, we formalize emotion cause detec-tion as a multi-label problem as follows.Given an emotion keyword and its context, itslabel is the locations of its causes, such as ?left_1,left_0?.
Then, we use the LP model to identify thecause for each sentence as well as an emotionkeyword.
With regard to emotion cause detection,the LP model is more suitable than the BB modelbecause the LP model can easily capture the pos-sible label combinations.In terms of feature extraction, unlike emotionrecognition, emotion cause detection relies moreon linguistic constructions, such as ?The BP oilspill makes the country angry?, ?I am sad becauseof the oil spill problem?
and so on.According to our linguistic analysis, we cre-ate 14 patterns to extraction some common emo-tion cause expressions.
Some patterns aredesigned for general cause detection using linguis-tic cues such as conjunctions and prepositions.Others are designed for some specific emotioncause expressions, such as epistemic markers andreported verbs.
Furthermore, to avoid the lowcoverage problem of the rule-based patterns, wecreate another set of features, which is a group ofgeneralized patterns.
For details, please refer toChen et al (2010).5.2 ExperimentsFor EASC, we reserve 80% as the training data,10% as the development data, and 10% as the testdata.
For evaluation, we first convert a multi-labeltag outputted from our system into a binary tag(?Y?
means the presence of a causal relation; ?N?means the absence of a causal relation) betweenthe emotion keyword and each candidate in itscorresponding cause candidates.
We then adoptthree common measures, i.e.
precision, recall andF-score, to evaluate the result.A naive baseline is designed as follows: Thebaseline searches for the cause candidates in theorder of <left_1, right_0, left_2, left_0, right_1>.If the candidate contains a noun or a verb, thisclause is considered as a cause and the searchstops.Table 2 shows the overall performances of ouremotion cause detection system.
First, our systembased on a multi-label approach as well as power-ful linguistic features significantly outperformsthe na?ve baseline.
Moreover, the greatest im-provement is attributed to the 14 linguistic pat-terns (LP).
This implies the importance oflinguistic cues for cause detection.
Moreover, thegeneral patterns (GP) achieve much better per-EASC RBECBB LP BB LPAccuracy 21.30 28.07 22.99 28.33Micro F1 41.96 46.25 44.77 44.74Macro F1 34.78 35.52 36.48 38.88formance on the recall and yet slightly hurt on theprecision.The performances (F-scores) for ?Y?
and ?N?tags separately are shown in Table 3.
First, wenotice that the performances of the ?N?
tag aremuch better than the ones of ?Y?
tag.
Second, it issurprising that incorporating the linguistic featuressignificantly improves the ?Y?
tag only (from 33%to 56%), but does not affect ?N?
tag.
This suggeststhat our linguistic features are effective to detectthe presence of causal relation, and yet do not hurtthe detections of ?non_causal?
relation.
Further-more, the general feature achieves ~8% improve-ments for the ?Y?
tag.Table 2: The overall performance with differentfeature sets of the multi-label systemPrecision Recall F-scoreBaseline 56.64 57.70 56.96LP 74.92 66.70 69.21+ GP 73.90 72.70 73.26Table 3: The separate performances for ?Y?
and?N?
tags of the multi-label system?Y?
?N?Baseline 33.06 80.85LP 48.32 90.11+ GP 56.84 89.686 DiscussionsMany previous works on emotion recognitionconcentrated on emotion keyword detection.However, Ortony et al (1987) pointed out the dif-ficulty of emotion keyword annotation, be it man-ual or automatic annotation.
Emotion keywordsare rather ambiguous, and also contain other in-formation besides affective information, such asbehavior and cognition.
Therefore, contextual in-formation provides important cues for emotionrecognition.
Furthermore, we propose an alterna-tive way to explore emotion recognition, which isbased on emotion cause.
Through two pilot ex-periments, we justify the importance of emotioncontextual information for emotion recognition,particularly emotion cause.We first examine emotion processing in termsof events.
Context information is found to be veryimportant for emotion recognition.
Furthermore,most emotions are expressed with the presence ofcauses in context, which implies that emotioncause is the crucial information for emotion rec-ognition.
In addition, emotion cause detection alsoexplores deep understanding of an emotion.
Com-pared to emotion recognition, emotion cause de-tection requires more semantic and pragmaticinformation.
In this paper, based on the in-depthlinguistic analysis, we extract different kinds ofconstructs to identify cause events for an emotion.To conclude, emotion processing is a compli-cated problem.
In terms of emotion keywords,how to understand appropriately to enhance emo-tion recognition needs more exploration.
Withrespect to emotion causes, first, event processingitself is a challenging topic, such as event extrac-tion and co-reference.
Second, how to combineevent and emotion in NLP is still unclear, but it isa direction for further emotion studies.ReferencesAbbasi, A., H. Chen, S. Thoms, and T. Fu.
2008.
Af-fect Analysis of Web Forums and Blogs using Cor-relation Ensembles?.
In IEEE Tran.
Knowledge andData Engineering, vol.
20(9), pp.
1168-1180.Aman, S. and S. Szpakowicz.
2007.
Identifying Ex-pressions of Emotion in Text.
In Proceedings of10th International Conference on Text, Speech andDialogue, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 4629,196--205.Chang, D.-S. and K.-S. Choi.
2006.
Incremental cuephrase learning and bootstrapping method for cau-sality extraction using cue phrase and word pairprobabilities.
Information Processing and Man-agement.
42(3): 662-678.Chen, Y., S. Y. M. Lee and C.-R. Huang.
2009.
AreEmotions Enumerable or Decomposable?
And ItsImplications for Emotion Processing.
In Proceed-ings of the 23rd Pacific Asia Conference on Lan-guage, Information and Computation.Chen, Y., Y. M. Lee, S. Li and C.-R. Huang.
2010.Emotion Cause Detection with Linguistic Construc-tions.
In Proceedings of the 23rd InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics.Descartes, R. 1649.
The Passions of the Soul.
USA:Hackett Publishing Company.Ghazi, D., D. Inkpen and S. Szpakowicz.
2010.
Hierar-chical versus Flat Classification of Emotions in Text.In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2010 Workshop onComputational Approaches to Analysis and Genera-tion of Emotion in Text.
Los Angeles, CA: NAACL.Girju, R. 2003.
Automatic Detection of Causal Rela-tions for Question Answering.
In the 41st AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Workshop on Multilingual Summarizationand Question Answering - Machine Learning andBeyond, Sapporo, Japan.Gupta, N., M. Gilbert, and G. D. Fabbrizio.
EmotionDetection in Email Customer Care.
In Proceedingsof NAACL-HLT 2010 Workshop on ComputationalApproaches to Analysis and Generation of Emotionin Text.James, W. 1884.
What is an Emotion?
Mind, 9(34):188?205.Keshtkar, F. and D. Inkpen.
2009.
Using SentimentOrientation Features for Mood Classification inBlog Corpus.
In Proceedings of IEEE InternationalConference on Natural Language Processing andKnowledge Eng.
(IEEE NLP-KE 2009), Sep. 24-27.Marcu, D. and A. Echihabi.
2002.
An UnsupervisedApproach to Recognizing Discourse Relations.
InProceedings of ACL.Mihalcea, R., and H. Liu.
2006.
A Corpus-based Ap-proach to Finding Happiness.
In Proceedings ofAAAI.Mishne, G. 2005.
Experiments with Mood Classifica-tion in Blog Posts.
In Proceedings of Style2005 ?
the1st Workshop on Stylistic Analysis of Text for Infor-mation Access, at SIGIR 2005.Ortony, A., G. L. Clore, and M. A. Foss.
1987.
TheReferential Structure of the Affective Lexicon.
Cog-nitive Science, 11: 341-364.Pang B., L. Lee and S. Vaithyanathan.
2002.
Thumbsup?
Sentiment Classification Using Machine Learn-ing Techniques.
In Proceedings of EMNLP02, 79-86.Pearl, L. and M. Steyvers.
2010.
Identifying Emotions,Intentions, and Attitudes in Text Using a Game witha Purpose.
In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2010Workshop on Computational Approaches to Analy-sis and Generation of Emotion in Text.
Los Angeles,CA: NAACL.Persing, Isaac and Vincent Ng.
2009.
Semi-SupervisedCause Identification from Aviation Safety Reports.In Proceedings of ACL.Plutchik, R. 1980.
Emotions: A PsychoevolutionarySynthesis.
New York: Harper & Row.Quan, C. and F. Ren.
2009.
Construction of a BlogEmotion Corpus for Chinese Expression Analysis.In Proceedings of EMNLP.Strapparava, C. and R. Mihalcea.
2008.
Learning toIdentify Emotions in Text.
In Proceedings of theACM Conference on Applied Computing ACM-SAC.Tokuhisa, R., K. Inui, and Y. Matsumoto.
2008.
Emo-tion Classification Using Massive Examples Ex-tracted from the Web.
In Proceedings of COLING.Turner, J. H. 2000.
On the Origins of Human Emotions:A Sociological Inquiry into the Evolution of HumanAffect.
California: Stanford University Press.Wierzbicka, A.
1999.
Emotions across Languages andCultures: Diversity and Universals.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.
