Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 6?13,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsMining and Classification of Neologisms in Persian BlogsKarine Megerdoomian Ali HadjarianThe MITRE Corporation The MITRE Corporation7515 Colshire Drive 7515 Colshire DriveMcLean, VA 22102, USA McLean, VA 22102, USAkarine@mitre.org ahadjarian@mitre.orgAbstractThe exponential growth of the Persian blo-gosphere and the increased number of neolog-isms create a major challenge in NLPapplications of Persian blogs.
This paper de-scribes a method for extracting and classifyingnewly constructed words and borrowings fromPersian blog posts.
The analysis of the occur-rence of neologisms across five distinct topiccategories points to a correspondence betweenthe topic domain and the type of neologismthat is most commonly encountered.
The re-sults suggest that different approaches shouldbe implemented for the automatic detectionand processing of neologisms depending onthe domain of application.1 Introduction*Since its beginnings in 2001, the Persian blogos-phere has undergone a dramatic growth makingPersian one of the top ten languages of the globalblog community in 2007 [Sifry 2007].One of the main challenges in the automaticanalysis and processing of Persian language blogsis the accelerated emergence of neologisms in on-line discourse.
These newly created words thatcannot be found in traditional lexicons primarilyconsist of adopted English loanwords, such as ?????
?d?nlod ?GRZQORDG?
RU  ??????
?nl?yn ?RQOLQH? DQGinnovative constructions based on Persian word-* This research is part of a larger project on the study of Per-sian language blogs supported by a Mission-Oriented Investi-gation and Experimentation (MOIE) program at MITRE.formation principles, as in  ????????
filtershekan ?Dn-ti-ILOWHU VRIWZDUH?
RU  ?????
chatidan ?WR FKDW?.In this paper, we investigate the distinct classesof neologisms encountered in Persian languageblogs.
Since the main goal of the project is to builda topic classification system for blogs, we focusedon extracting neologisms that would have the mostdiscriminatory power in distinguishing between thevarious classes.For the purposes of this study, we collected acorpus of Persian language blogs from five differ-ent topic categories of sports, medicine, politics,Internet, and cinema.
The neologisms are automat-ically extracted by running the documents througha morphological analyzer.
Since these new wordcoinages are not recognized by the analyzer, theyare tagged as unknowns.
A weight-ordered list ofunknown words is then generated for each topiccategory, using information gain as the measure, asdescribed in Section 2.3.
The more significant neo-logisms for each category are then manually identi-fied from the generated weight-ordered lists,focusing on the top 200 words, and classifiedbased on their linguistic characteristics.
The resultsindicate that the type of neologism found in theblog posts in fact corresponds to the topic domain.Hence, for example, while English loans are highlyprominent in technical and Internet related posts,new morphological constructions are more com-mon in the domain of politics.
Building on theseresults, we argue that distinct approaches are re-quired for processing the adopted loan words andthe morphologically constructed neologisms.62 Extraction Process2.1 Blog DataThe blog data for this study comes from Blogfa1, apopular Persian blog hosting site.
The topic indexprovided by Blogfa itself has allowed us to rapidlycollect large amounts of blog data coming fromtopic categories of interest, by eliminating the needto manually label the data.
Table 1 provides a listof the five topic categories used in this study, aswell as the total number and the median size of thecollected blogs for each.
The table also includesthe average number of words in each topic catego-ry.
The blogs were collected in February 2010,starting with the most recent blog posted in eachtopic and moving back chronologically.topic category# ofblogsmediansizeaverage# of wordsInternet 497 14 kb 986Cinema and theatre(sinama va ta?atr)255 18 kb 1380Political(siyasat-e-rooz)500 22 kb 2171Medical(pezeshki)499 27 kb 2285Sports(varzesh)498 19 kb 1528Table 1 ?
Topic categories of interest and the totalnumber, median size, and average length of thecollected blogs for each topic2.2 Linguistic ParsingThe collected documents are run through a Persianmorphological parser that analyzes all word formsincluding compounds and provides a part of speechtag for the valid analyses [Amtrup 2003].
Themorphological analyzer was developed for use in aPersian-English machine translation system andprovides part of speech as well as all syntacticallyrelevant inflectional features for a word [cf.
Me-gerdoomian 2000].
The morphological formalismconsists of a declarative description of rules utiliz-ing typed feature structures with unification.
Themorphological analysis component takes advantageof a lexicon of about 40,000 entries in citationform that had been developed in the period of1999-2002 for coverage of online news articles andincludes nouns, adjectives, verbs, adverbs and1 www.blogfa.comclosed class items.
In addition, there are about5,000 common proper noun entities listed in thelexicon.
After morphological analysis, dictionarylookup eliminates all erroneous analyses.
Anyelement that is not successfully associated with aword in the lexicon is tagged as an unknown.The current morphological analyzer has a cover-age of 97% and an accuracy of 93% on a 7MBcorpus collected from online news sources.
Thesystem fails to analyze conversational forms.
Otherunanalyzed tokens are mainly proper nouns andwords missing in the lexicon.2.3 Information GainTo automatically detect the most pertinent un-known terms per blog category, we employ an in-formation gain (IG) based feature selectionDSSURDFK ,*?V HIIHFWLYHQHVV DV D IHDWXUH VHOHFWLRQmeasure for text topic categorization, the ultimateobjective of this project, has been well studied[Yang and Pedersen 1997].Information gain is a statistical measure for cal-culating the expected reduction in entropy [Mit-chell 1997].
Entropy, a common measure ininformation theory, captures the impurity of a col-lection of examples relative to the intended classi-fication.
For a binary classification task, theentropy of a set of examples E is defined as:????
???
ppppEEntropy 22 loglog)(where?p  is the proportion of positive examplesand?p  is the proportion of negative examples inE.
Moreover, it is assumed that 0log0 2  is equalto zero.
The discriminatory power of an attributefor a given class can then be measured by IG,which is the reduction in entropy caused by thepartitioning of the data using that attribute.
The IGfor example set E and attribute A is defined as:)()(),()(vAValuesvv EEntropyEEEEntropyAEIG ???
?where Values(A) represents the set of all possiblevalues that attribute A can take on andvE  is the setof examples for which attribute A takes on value v.In this study, each attribute has a binary valuewhich signifies the presence or absence of a givenunknown term in the document.
So for the purpos-7es of this study, the above equation can be formu-lated as:)()()(),( tttt DEntropyDDDEntropyDDEntropytDIG ??
?where  D is the set of all documents, t  is a giventerm, Dt is the set of documents in which term toccurs, andtD   is the set of documents in whichterm t does not occur.Translit.
Weight Translationvyndvz 0.100033 Windowsdanlvd 0.080559 downloadfayl 0.058319 filekarbran 0.051595 usersJava 0.048287 Javaklyk 0.048180 clickyahv 0.044999 Yahoonvkya 0.044807 NokiaflG 0.042718 Flashmrvrgr 0.041374 browserhk 0.041074 hackmsnJr 0.040853 MessengerCt 0.039987 chatpsvrd 0.039213 passwordkd 0.035936 codeTable 2 ?The top weighted unknown terms for the In-ternet topic category and their associatedinformation gainSince the aim of feature selection for this paperis that of identifying the most pertinent unknownterms for each topic category, an additional con-straint is imposed on the feature selection process.Here, for a term to be selected, it not only needs tohave a high IG, but it needs to be present in a high-er proportion of positive examples than the nega-tive ones.
This prevents the selection of terms thatwhile are good descriptors of the negative classand thus carry a high IG, are not necessarily perti-nent to the positive class (i.e., the topic categoryunder consideration).
So IG of a term not meetingthe above constraint is effectively set to zero.As indicated previously, the 200 unknownterms with the highest IG for each topic categoryare thus selected for the analysis portion of thisstudy.
Table 2 depicts a sample set of the topweighted terms for the Internet category in transli-teration and translation.
The transliteration schemawas designed to display the results of the morpho-logical analyzer system.
It directly represents thePersian script and provides a bijective, one-to-onemapping of the characters.
The transliterationomits any diacritics, including vowels, that are notrepresented in the original script.2.4 Candidate ListThe weight-ordered list of unknown words pro-vides a candidate list of potential neologisms.However, the set of unknown terms extracted fromeach topic category includes proper names, spel-ling errors, conversational language forms andneologisms.
We therefore manually study the can-didate list in order to identify the appropriateclasses of neologisms.
The results are classifiedbased on the observed linguistic characteristics anda quantitative analysis is performed for each topiccategory.3 Neologism ClassificationPersian language blogs include a large number ofneologisms ranging from new usages in conversa-tional language to newly coined words to designatenew technology or political concepts.
We per-formed a qualitative, linguistic investigation ofPersian language blogs, consisting of posts fromfour main categories of technical, political, arts,and personal diary [Megerdoomian 2008].
Thegoal of this study was to identify elements of Per-sian Blogspeak that indicate language change andwhich fail to be analyzed by the existing Persianmachine translation and information extractionsystems that had been developed for online newssources.
The study pointed to four main categoriesof new word formation found in Persian languageblogs:?
Borrowings (mainly from English andFrench)?
Compounding?
Affixation?
Conversion: Semantic and functional shiftThese neologisms were identified based on theprevalent linguistic classification of newly formedwords (see for instance the classification of neo-logisms described in [Grzega and Schoener 2007]).8These four classes of neologisms are described inmore detail in the rest of this section.3.1 BorrowingsA large number of new loan words can be found inblogs.
Although they may sometimes be insertedwithin the text in the original language, they aregenerally transcribed into Persian script.
Theseloans are used as regular words and can take Per-sian inflectional affixes.
Some examples are pro-vided in Table 3.Persian Transcription Translation???????
monitor Monitor???????????
filteringeshun their filtering??????
s?yth?
sites????????
pasvordet?n your password??????
v?yerles Wireless????
????
t?ym l?yn Timeline?????????
seksu?liteh Sexuality????????
nost?lji NostalgyTable 3 ?
Loan words in Persian blogsAn analysis of the occurrence of loans with re-spect to the various topic domains shows that theInternet category contains a large number of Eng-lish language loans, whereas the more establishedscientific domain of medicine tends to use Frenchborrowings.
Also within the same category, newtechnological or scientific additions are generallyexpressed in English.
For instance, in the cinemacategory, most technical words are of French ori-gin ?
e.g., ?????
from ?cran ?VFUHHQ?
RU ??????
fromtitrage ?RSHQLQJ FUHGLWV? However, new loans haveentered the field from English, e.g., ???????
animey-shen ?DQLPDWLRQ?3.2 CompoundingCompounding is a productive word-formationprocess in Persian and refers to cases where two ormore roots are combined to form a new word.
Ex-amples of compounding include   ??????
r?hk?r(consisting of r?h ?SDWK?
DQG k?r ?ZRUN?
DQG nowEHLQJ XVHG WR PHDQ ?JXLGHOLQH?
RU ?VROXWLRQ?);?????
sarbarg (from sar ?KHDG?
DQG barg ?OHDISLHFH RI SDSHU?
VLJQLI\LQJ ?OHWWHUKHDG?
; and ?????
?degarb?sh (formed with degar ?RWKHU?
DQG b?sh?EHLQJ? PHDQLQJ ?TXHHU?
.
In many cases, howev-er, one of the roots is a borrowing that is combinedwith a Persian root form.
Examples of this multi-lingual compounding construction include ???????
?t?bus?zi (taboo + to make) ?PDNLQJ WDERR?
DQG????????
linkduni OLQN  VWRUDJH PHDQLQJ ?EOo-JUROO?.Recently, there has been a concerted effort bythe Persian Language Academy to replace borrow-ings from foreign languages by equivalent Persianconstructions.
Thus, the traditional ????????
helikop-ter ?KHOLFRSWHU?
KDV EHHQ UHSODFHG E\ ??????
b?lgardby combining Persian b?l ?ZLQJ?
DQG gard ?WXUQ?Similarly, the French loanword ??????
sen?ryo?VFUHHQSOD\?
LV QRZ EHLQJ UHSODFHG E\ ????????filmn?m?
composed of film and n?m?
?OHWWHUERRN?Persian has a very productive compoundingstrategy for forming new verbs where a nominal oradjectival root is combined with a light verb, i.e., averb that has lost some of its semantic value.
Manynew verbs, especially in the technical domain, areformed following this construction as illustrated inTable 4.Persian Transcription Translation????
????
kelik kardan to click??
????
chat kardan to chat??
???
??
??
es-em-es zadan to send a textmessage????
???
kansel shodan to be cancelledTable 4 ?
Compound verb formation3.3 AffixationNew words are often created following a produc-tive word-formation pattern using suffixes.
Forinstance, the agentive suffix ?gar is used to form??????
morurgar ?EURZVHU?
by combining withmorur ?UHYLHZ? and  ??
????
fetne-gar ?VHGLWLRXV?when combined with fetne ?VHGLWLRQ?2.
Anothercommon affix used to form new words is ?est?nwhich indicates a place.
This suffix can be found interms like ?????????
vebl?gest?n (weblog + -stan)?EORJRVSKHUH?
RU ????????
linkest?n (link + -stan)?EORJUROO?.In addition to the compound verb formation,bloggers have started creating simple verbs bycombining the verbal ending ?idan with nominal2 Fetne-gar is a relatively new creation that is used alongsidethe traditional fetne-ju ?VHGLWLRXV? 7KHUH LV D FOHDU VHQVHamong native speakers, however, that fetne-gar refers to aperson who is more agentive, actively causing discord.9Figure 1 ?
Loan neologisms across topic categories01020304050607080Internet Cinema Medical Political SportcountLoan EnglishTransliteratedLoan FrenchTransliteratedroots as in ?????
chatidan ?WR FKDW?
RU ??????
l?gidan?WR EORJ?3.4 ConversionAnother type of neologism found in Persian lan-guage blogs consists of existing words that are be-ing used in a new context, bringing about asemantic shift.
In certain instances, the part-of-speech category may also shift.
One example is theadjective ????
shaf?f ?WUDQVSaUHQW?
WKDW LV Eeingused more and more frequently as an adverb inpolitical contexts with the meanLQJ ?RSHQO\ WUDQs-SDUHQWO\?This category, however, is difficult to detect au-tomatically with the methodology used since thesewords already exist in traditional lexicons and arenot tagged as unknowns by the morphologicalparser.
Identifying conversions and semantic shiftscurrently requires a manual exploration of the data;we leave a study of this class of neologisms forfuture work.4 Topic and Neologism CorrespondenceAn investigation of the neologisms for each topiccategory clearly suggests that there is a close rela-tionship between the class of neologisms and thetopic domain.Starting from the weight-ordered candidate listfor each topic category, we manually examinedand labeled each unknown word according to theneologism classification described in Section 3.
Inorder to identify the correct class, each unknownword was considered within its context of occur-rence in the corresponding blog posts and classi-fied according to the usage within the sentence.
Inaddition, proper names, conversational forms ofexisting words, and spelling errors were taggedseparately.10Figure 1 illustrates the correspondence of thenumber of borrowings per topic category in thecorresponding candidate list.
The results show thatthe most common way of forming new words with-in blogs dealing with Internet and computer tech-nology is to use borrowings from English.
In themedical domain, however, most neologisms arescientific terms borrowed mainly from the Frenchlanguage.
The domain of cinema and theatre alsoincludes a large number of loans from French.However, most of the French loans across topicsseem to be older borrowings while the newer loans(i.e, within the last three to five years) are almostalways from the English language.
A statisticalanalysis of the results indicate that these corres-pondences are significant as shown in Figure 2 forEnglish loans and in Figure 3 for French loans.Figure 2 illustrates a pairwise comparison betweenthe Internet category and other blog topics basedon the average percentage of documents in which agiven term from the English loan neologism cate-gory is included.
(*) indicates a statistically signif-icant difference between the two percentages.Figure 3 shows a similar result for the pairwisecomparison between the Medical category and oth-er topics for the French loan class.Figure 2 ?
Pairwise comparison of Internet blogs and other topics for English loansFigure 3 ?
Pairwise comparison for Medical blogs and other topics for French loans11Figure 4 shows the relative usage of affixationand compounding strategies for the creation of newwords.
Although affixation is used to some degreein both the Internet and medical domains, they donot occur as often as the English or French loans(cf.
Figure 1 above).
Interestingly, the blogs thatfall within the political topic category do not makemuch use of borrowings from English and French.Instead, they tend to create new words by applyingproductive affixation and compounding strategies.In most instances, the words used to form neolog-isms in the politics category are based on words ofArabic and Persian origin.
Figure 5 illustrates thepairwise comparison between the Political and oth-er blog topics based on the average percentage ofdocuments in which a given term from the affixa-tion and compounding class of neologisms is in-cluded.
(*) indicates a statistically significantdifference between the two percentages.Hence, while the Internet blogs make heavy useof English loans in the creation of new words, po-litical blogs tend to use affixation and compoundstrategies for word-formation.
These results sug-Figure 4 ?
Affixation and compounding strategies for the creation of new wordsacross various blog topicsFigure 5 ?
Pairwise comparison for Political blogs and other topics for affixation and compounding02468101214Internet Cinema Medical Political Sportcount AffixationCompound12gest that, depending on the domain of interest forthe particular NLP application, distinct methodolo-gies for the automatic detection and processing ofneologisms should be implemented.5 ConclusionThis paper presents an investigation of neolog-isms in Persian blog posts across five distinct topicareas.
We employ morphological analysis in con-junction with a profile-based classification tech-nique to successfully extract a pertinent candidatelist for identifying new word-level constructions inblogs.
These neologisms are then classified basedon their linguistic characteristics and word-formation strategies and the quantitative analysispoints to a significant correspondence betweenneologism classes and blog topic domains.Based on these results, we propose that the de-tection and processing strategies should be tailoredto the domain of the NLP application for greaterefficiency.
In particular, a derivational morpholog-ical system can be developed by implementing theproductive affixation and compounding rules usedin Persian word formation.
This system can beused to extend the existing analysis and translationsystems in the domain of politics.
Loans from Eng-lish, on the other hand, can be automaticallyprocessed by using previously implemented me-thodologies for transcribing Persian script into theEnglish writing system [Megerdoomian 2006, Jo-hanson 2007].
Such a system would be beneficialin recognizing the large number of loans encoun-tered in the technical and scientific domains.This work is part of a larger project for automat-ic topic classification and sentiment analysis inPersian language blogs.
We extract the most perti-nent neologisms encountered in the blog corpus inorder to enhance the topic classification system.
Inaddition, the results obtained will be used to extendthe current morphological parser to improve cover-age and identification of newly formed words.ReferencesAmtrup, Jan W. 2003.
Morphology in machine transla-tion systems: Efficient integration of finite statetransducers and feature structure descriptions.
Ma-chine Translation, 18(3), pp.
217-238.Grzega, Joachim and Marion Schoener.
2007.
Englishand general historical lexicology: Materials foronomasiology seminars.
Onomasiology Online Mo-nographs, Vol.
1.
Germany.Ittner, D.J., Lewis, D.D., and Ahn, D.D.
(1995).
Textcategorization of low quality images.
In Symposiumon Document Analysis and Information Retrieval.Las Vegas, NV.Johanson, Joshua.
2007.
Transcription of names writtenin Farsi into English.
In Proceedings of the Computa-tional Approaches to Arabic Script-based Languages(CAASL2).
LSA Linguistic Institute, Stanford..HOO\ -RKQ DQG %UXFH (WOLQJ  0DSSLQJ ,UDQ?Vonline public: Politics and culture in the Persian blo-gosphere.
Research Publication No.
2008-01, TheBerkman Center for Internet and Society at HarvardLaw School.
April 6.Megerdoomian, Karine.
2008.
Analysis of Farsi web-logs.
MITRE Tech Report 080206.
August 2008.Megerdoomian, Karine.
2006.
Transcription of Persianproper name entities into English.
Technical report,Inxight Software, Inc.Megerdoomian, Karine.
2000.
Unification-based Per-sian morphology.
In Proceedings of CICLing 2000.Alexander Gelbukh, ed.
Centro de Investigacion enComputacion-IPN, Mexico.Mitchell, Tom M. 1997.
Machine learning.
McGraw-Hill.Pacea, Otilia.
2009.
New worlds, new words: On lan-guage change and word formation in Internet Englishand Romanian.
In The annals of Ovidius UniversityConstanta- Philology, issue 20, pp: 87-102.Salton, G. 1991.
Developments in automatic text re-trieval.
Science, v.253: 974-980.Sebastiani, F. 2002.
Machine learning in automated textcategorization.
In ACM Computing Surveys, 34(1):1-47Sifry, Dave.
2007.
The Technorati state of the live web:April 2007.Yang, Yiming and Jan Pedersen, J.O.
1997.
A compara-tive study on feature selection in text categorization.In Proceedings of International Conference on Ma-chine Learning.13
