Proceedings of the Second Workshop on NLP Challenges in the Information Explosion Era (NLPIX 2010), pages 69?74,Beijing, August 2010Mining coreference relations between formulas and text using WikipediaMinh Nghiem Quoc 1, Keisuke Yokoi 2, Yuichiroh Matsubayashi 3 Akiko Aizawa 1 2 31 Department of Informatics, The Graduate University for Advanced Studies2 Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo3 National Institute of Informatics{nqminh, kei-yoko, y-matsu, aizawa}@nii.ac.jpAbstractIn this paper, we address the problem ofdiscovering coreference relations betweenformulas and the surrounding text.
Thetask is different from traditional coref-erence resolution because of the uniquestructure of the formulas.
In this paper, wepresent an approach, which we call ?CDF(Concept Description Formula)?, for min-ing coreference relations between formu-las and the concepts that refer to them.Using Wikipedia articles as a target cor-pus, our approach is based on surface leveltext matching between formulas and text,as well as patterns that represent relation-ships between them.
The results showedthe potential of our approach for formulasand text coreference mining.1 Introduction1.1 MotivationMathematical content is a valuable informationsource for many users: teachers, students, re-searchers need access to mathematical resourcesfor teaching, studying, or obtaining updated infor-mation for research and development.
Althoughmore and more mathematical content is becom-ing available on the Web nowadays, conventionalsearch engines do not provide direct search ofmathematical formulas.
As such, retrieving math-ematical content remains an open issue.Some recent studies proposed mathematical re-trieval systems that were based on structural sim-ilarity of equations (Adeel and Khiyal, 2008;Yokoi and Aizawa, 2009; Nghiem et al, 2009).However, in these studies, the semantics of theequations is still not taken into account.
Asmathematical equations follow highly abstract andalso rewritable representations, structural similar-ity alone is insufficient as a metric for semanticsimilarity.Based on this observation, the primary goal ofthis paper is to establish a method for extractingimplicit connections between mathematical for-mulas and their names together with the descrip-tions written in natural language text.
This en-ables keywords to be associated with the formu-las and makes mathematical search more power-ful.
For example, it is easier for people searchingand retrieving mathematical concepts if they knowthe name of the equation ?a2 + b2 = c2?
isthe ?Pythagorean Theorem?.
It could also makemathematics more understandable and usable forusers.While many studies have presented corefer-ence relations among texts (Ponzetto and Poesio,2009), no work has ever considered the corefer-ence relations between formulas and texts.
In thispaper, we use Wikipedia articles as a target cor-pus.
We chose Wikipedia for these reasons: (1)Wikipedia uses a subset of TEX markup for math-ematical formulas.
That way, we can analyze thecontent of these formulas using TEX expressionsrather than analyzing the images.
(2) Wikipediaprovides a wealth of knowledge and the contentof Wikipedia is much cleaner than typical Webpages, as explained in Giles (2005).691.2 Related WorkPonzetto and Poesio (2006) attempted to includesemantic information extracted from WordNetand Wikipedia into their coreference resolutionmodel.
Shnarch et al (2009) presented the ex-traction of a large-scale rule base from Wikipediadesigned to cover a wide scope of the lexicalreference relations.
Their rule base has compa-rable performance with WordNet while provid-ing largely complementary information.
Yan etal.
(2009) proposed an unsupervised relation ex-traction method for discovering and enhancingrelations associated with a specified concept inWikipedia.
Their work combined deep linguis-tic patterns extracted from Wikipedia with surfacepatterns obtained from the Web to generate vari-ous relations.
The results of these studies showedthat Wikipedia is a knowledge-rich and promisingresource for extracting relations between repre-sentative terms in text.
However, these techniquesare not directly applicable to the coreference res-olution between formulas and texts as we mentionin the next section.1.3 ChallengesThere are two key challenges in solving the coref-erence relations between formulas and texts usingWikipedia articles.?
First, formulas have unique structures suchas prior operators and nested functions.
Inaddition, features such as gender, plural, partof speech, and proper name, are unavail-able with formulas for coreference resolu-tion.
Therefore, we cannot apply standardnatural language processing methods to for-mulas.?
Second, no labeled data are available forthe coreference relations between formu-las and texts.
This means we cannot ap-ply commonly used machine learning-basedtechniques without expensive human annota-tions.1.4 Our Approach and Key ContributionsIn this paper, we present an approach, whichwe call CDF (Concept Description Formula), formining coreference relations between mathemat-ical Formulas and Concepts using Wikipedia ar-ticles.
In order to address the previously men-tioned challenges, the proposed CDF approach isfeatured as follows:?
First, we consider not only the concept-formula pairs but extend the relation with de-scriptions of the concept.
Note that a ?con-cept?
in our study corresponds to a ?name?
ora ?title?
of a formula, which is usually quiteshort.
By additionally considering words ex-tracted from the descriptions, we have a bet-ter chance of detecting keywords, such asmathematical symbols, and function or vari-able names, used in the equations.?
Second, we apply an unsupervised frame-work in our approach.
Initially, we extracthighly confident coreference pairs using sur-face level text matching.
Next, we collectpromising syntactic patterns from the de-scriptions and then use the patterns to extractcoreference pairs.
The process enables us todeal with cases where there exist no commonwords between the concepts and the formu-las.The remainder of this paper is organized as fol-lows: In section 2, we present our method.
Wethen describe the experiments and results in sec-tion 3.
Section 4 concludes the paper and givesavenues for future work.2 Method2.1 Overview of the MethodIn this section, we first explain the terms used inour approach.
We then provide a framework ofour method and the functions of the main mod-ules.Given a set of Wikipedia articles as input, oursystem outputs a list of formulas along with theirnames and descriptions.
Herein?
Concept: A concept C is a phrase that repre-sents a name of a mathematical formula.
InWikipedia, we extract candidate concepts asnoun phrases (NPs) that are either the titles of70Wikipedia articles, section headings, or writ-ten in bold or italic.
Additional NPs that con-tain at least one content word are also consid-ered.?
Description: A description D is a phrasethat describes the concept.
In Wikipedia, de-scriptions often follow a concept after theverb ?be?.?
Formula: A formula F is a mathematicalformula.
In Wikipedia extracted XML files,formulas occur between the < math > and< /math > tags.
They are encoded in TEXformat.?
Candidate: A candidate is a triple of con-cept, description and formula.
Our systemwill judge if the candidate is qualified, whichmeans the concept is related to the formula.Figure 1 shows a section of a Wikipedia articleand the concepts, descriptions and formulas in thissection.
Table 1 shows the extracted candidates.Details of how to extract the concepts, descrip-tions and formulas and how to form candidates aredescribed in the next sections.Sine, cosine and tangentThe sine of an angle is the ratio of the length of the opposite side to the length of the hypotenuse.
In our casesin A= oppositehypotenuse=ahNote that this ratio does not depend on size of the particular right triangle chosen, as long as it contains the angle A, since all such triangles are similar.The cosine of an angle is the ratio of the length of the adjacent side to the length of the hypotenuse.
In our casecos A= adjacenthypotenuse=bhThe tangent of an angle is the ratio of the length of the opposite side to the length of the adjacent side (called so because it can be represented as a line segment tangent to the circle).
In our casetan A= oppositeadjacent =abThe acronym "SOHCAHTOA" is a useful mnemonic for these ratios.TITLEPARAGRAPHPARAGRAPHPARAGRAPHFORMULAFORMULAFORMULACONCEPT DESCRIPTIONDESCRIPTIONCONCEPTDESCRIPTIONCONCEPTFigure 1: Examples of extracted paragraphsThe framework of the system is shown in Fig-ure 2.
The system has four main modules.?
Text Preprocessor: processes Wikipedia ar-ticles to extract CDF (Concept DescriptionFormula) candidates.Input: Wikipedia articlesPreprocessorPattern Matching Text MatchingOutput: equation's referencesPattern GenerationConcept Description FormulaThe sine of an angle the ratio of the length of the opposite side to the length of the hypotenuse a quadratic equation a polynomial equation of the second degreesin A= oppositehypotenuse=ahax2?bx?c=0Figure 2: Framework of the proposed approach?
Text Matching: extracts reliable and qual-ified candidates using surface level textmatching.?
Pattern Generation: generates patternsfrom qualified candidates.?
Pattern Matching: extends the candidatelist using the generated patterns.2.2 Text PreprocessorThis module preprocesses the text of theWikipedia article to extract CDF candidates.Based on the assumption that concepts, their de-scriptions and formulas are in the same paragraph,we split the text into paragraphs and select para-graphs that contain at least one formula.On these selected paragraphs, we run SentenceBoundary Detector, Tokenizer and Parser fromOpenNLP tools.
1 Based on the parse trees, weextract the noun phrases (NPs) and identify NPsrepresenting concepts or descriptions using thedefinitions in Section 2.1.Following the general idea in Shnarch et al(2009), we use the ?Be-Comp?
rule to identify thedescription of a concept in the definition sentence.In a sentence, we extract nominal complements ofthe verb ?to be?, assign the NP that occurs afterthe verb ?to be?
as the description of the NP thatoccurs before the verb.
Note that some conceptshave descriptions while others do not.1http://opennlp.sourceforge.net/71Table 1: Examples of candidatesConcept Description Formulathe sine of an angle the ratio of the length of the opposite side to sinA = oppositehypotenuse = ahthe length of the hypotenusethe cosine of an angle the ratio of the length of the adjacent side to cosA = adjacenthypotenuse = bhthe length of the hypotenusea quadratic equation a polynomial equation of the second degree ax2 + bx+ c = 0the quadratic formula x = ?b?
?b2?4ac2athe complex number i i2 = ?1the Cahen?Mellin integral e?y = 12pii?
c+i?c?i?
?
(s)y?s dsThe ?Be-Comp?
rule can also identify if a for-mula is related to the concept.After that, we group each formula F in thesame paragraph with concept C and its descrip-tion D to form a candidate (C, D, F ).
Table 1presents candidate examples.
Because we onlychoose paragraphs that contain at least one for-mula, every concept has a formula attached to it.In order to judge the correctness of candidates,we use the text-matching module, described in thenext section.2.3 Text MatchingIn this step, we classify candidates using surfacetext.
Given a list of candidates of the form (C, D,F ), this module judges if a candidate is qualifiedby using the surface text in concept, descriptionand formula.
Because many formulas share thesame variable names or function names (or part ofthese names) with their concepts (e.g.
the first twocandidates in Table 1), we filter these candidatesusing surface text matching.We define the similarity between concept C,description D and formula F by the number ofoverlapped words, as in Eq.
1.sim(F,CD) = |TF ?
TC|min{|TC|, |TF|}+ |TF ?
TD|min{|TD|, |TF|}(1)TF , TC and TD are sets of words extracted fromF , C and D, respectively.Candidates with sim(F,CD) no larger than athreshold ?1 (1/3 in this study) are grouped intothe group Ctrue.
The rest are filtered and stored inC0.
In this step, function words such as articles,pronouns, conjunctions and so on in concepts anddescriptions are ignored.
Common operators informulas are also converted to text, such as ?+?
?plus?, ???
?minus?, ?\frac?
?divide?.Using only concepts for text matching with for-mulas might leave out various important relations.For example, from the description of the first andsecond formula in Table 1, we could extract thevariable names ?opposite?, ?adjacent?
and ?hy-potenuse?.By adding the description, we could get a moreaccurate judgment of whether the concept andthe formula are coreferent.
In this case, we canconsider the concept, description and the formulaform a coreference chain.After this step, we have two categories, Ctrueand C0.
Ctrue contains qualified candidates whileC0 contains candidates that cannot be determinedby text matching.
The formulas in C0 have littleor no text relation with their concepts and descrip-tions.
Thus, we can only judge the correctness ofthese candidates by using the text around the con-cepts, descriptions and formulas.
The surroundingtext can be formed into patterns and are generatedin the next step.2.4 Pattern GenerationOne difficulty in judging the correctness of a can-didate is that the formula does not share any re-lation with its concept and description.
The thirdcandidate in Fig.
1 is an example.
It should beclassified as a qualified instance but is left behindin C0 after the ?text matching?
step.72In this step, we use the qualified instances inCtrue to generate patterns.
These patterns are usedin the next step to judge the candidates in C0.
Pat-terns are generated as follows.
First, the concept,description and formula are replaced by CONC,DESC and FORM, respectively.
We then simplytake the entire string between the first and the lastappearance of CONC, DESC and FORM.Table 2 presents examples of patterns extractedfrom group Ctrue.Table 2: Examples of extracted patternsPatternCONC is DESC: FORMCONC is DESC.
In our case FORMCONC is DESC.
So, ..., FORMCONC FORMCONC is denoted by FORMCONC is given by ... FORMCONC can be written as ... : FORMFORM where CONC is DESCFORM satisfies CONCUsing a window surrounding the concepts andformulas often leads to exponential growth in pat-terns, so we limit our patterns to those betweenany concept C, description D or formula F .The patterns we obtained above are exactly theshortest paths from the C nodes to their F node inthe parse tree.
Figure 3 presents examples of thesepatterns in parse trees.Inputp: Wikkenputp: npW d aikkepprc npkls Po M aFigure 3: Examples of extracted patterns2.5 Pattern MatchingIn this step, we use patterns obtained from theprevious step to classify more candidates in C0.We use the string distance between the patterns,where candidates?
patterns having a string dis-tance to any of the patterns extracted in the previ-ous step no larger than the threshold ?2 are addedinto Ctrue.3 Experiments3.1 DataWe collected a total of 16,406 mathematical doc-uments from the Wikipedia Mathematics Portal.After the preprocessing step, we selected 72,084paragraphs that contain at least one formula.
Fromthese paragraphs, we extracted 931,716 candi-dates.Because no labeled data are available for usein this task, we randomly chose 100 candidates:60 candidates from Ctrue after the text matchingstep, 20 candidates added to Ctrue after patternmatching with ?2 = 0, and 20 candidates addedto Ctrue after pattern matching with ?2 = 0.25 forour evaluation.
These candidates were annotatedmanually.
The sizes of the sample sets for humanjudgment (60, 20 and 20) were selected approx-imately proportional to the sizes of the obtainedcandidate sets.3.2 ResultsAfter the text matching step, we obtained 138,285qualified candidates in the Ctrue group and793,431 candidates in C0.
In Ctrue, we had 6,129different patterns.
Applying these patterns to C0by exact pattern matching (?2 = 0), we obtained afurther 34,148 qualified candidates.
We obtainedan additional 30,337 qualified candidates whenwe increased the threshold ?2 to 0.25.For comparison, we built a baseline system.The baseline automatically groups nearest for-mula and concept.
It had 51 correctly qualifiedcandidates.
The results?displayed in Table 3and depicted in Figure 4?show that our proposedmethod is significantly better than the baseline interms of accuracy.As we can see from the results, when we lowerthe threshold, more candidates are added to Ctrue,which means we get more formulas and formulanames; but it also lowers the accuracy.
Althoughthe performance is not as high as other existingcoreference resolution techniques, the proposed73Table 3: Results of the systemModule No.
correct/ No.
oftotal CDF foundText Matching 41 / 60 138,285Pattern Matching 52 / 80 172,433?2 = 0Pattern Matching 56 / 100 202,270?2 = 0.25method is a promising starting point for solvingcoreference relations between formulas and sur-rounding text.4 ConclusionsIn this paper, we discuss the problem of discov-ering coreference relations between formulas andthe surrounding texts.
Although we could onlyuse a small number of annotated data for the eval-uation in this paper, our preliminary experimentalresults showed that our approach based on sur-face text-based matching between formulas andtext, as well as patterns representing relationshipsbetween them showed promise for mining math-ematical knowledge from Wikipedia.
Since thisis the first attempt to extract coreference rela-tions between formulas and texts, there is roomfor further improvement.
Possible improvementsinclude: (1) using advanced technology for pat-tern matching to improve the coverage of the re-sult and (2) expanding the work by mining knowl-edge from the Web.ReferencesEyal Shnarch, Libby Barak and Ido Dagan.
2009.Extracting Lexical Reference Rules from WikipediaProceedings of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACLand the 4th IJCNLP of the AFNLP, pages 450?458Yulan Yan, Naoaki Okazaki, Yutaka Matsuo, ZhengluYang and Mitsuru Ishizuka.
2009.
UnsupervisedRelation Extraction by Mining Wikipedia Texts Us-ing Information from the Web Proceedings of the47th Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th IJC-NLP of the AFNLP, pages 1021?1029Simone Paolo Ponzetto and Massimo Poesio.
2009.State-of-the-art NLP Approaches to CoreferenceInput: uWikeda uunret: uWikedtca uunret: uWikedtclsPocoPPcPPMcMPhc gWWTr WxInput: uWikeda uunret: uWikedtca uunret: uWikedtclsPOcccccOsccccOoccccOMccccOqccccscccccsscccc'fltfGt???tGfTe??
?n?kenFigure 4: Results of the systemResolution: Theory and Practical Recipes TutorialAbstracts of ACL-IJCNLP 2009, page 6Minh Nghiem, Keisuke Yokoi and Akiko Aizawa.2009.
Enhancing Mathematical Search with Namesof Formulas The Workshop on E-Inclusion in Math-ematics and Science 2009, pages 22?25Keisuke Yokoi and Akiko Aizawa.
2009.
An Ap-proach to Similarity Search for Mathematical Ex-pressions using MathML 2nd workshop Towards aDigital Mathematics Library, pages 27?35Hui Siu Cheung Muhammad Adeel and SikandarHayat Khiyal.
2008.
Math Go!
Prototype of aContent Based Mathematical Formula Search En-gine Journal of Theoretical and Applied Informa-tion Technology, Vol.
4, No.
10, pages 1002?1012Simone Paolo Ponzetto and Michael Strube.
2006.Exploiting Semantic Role Labeling, WordNet andWikipedia for Coreference Resolution In Proceed-ings of HLT-NAACL-06, pages 192?199Jim Giles.
2005.
Internet Encyclopaedias Go Headto Head Nature Volume: 438, Issue: 7070, pages900?901World Wide Web Consortium.
Mathematical MarkupLanguage (MathML) version 2.0 (second edition)http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/74
