Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, pages 120?128,Beijing, China, 21-22 August 2010. c?2010 Asian Federation for Natural Language ProcessingA Preliminary Work on Causative Verbs in HindiRafiya Begum, Dipti Misra SharmaLanguage Technologies Research Centre, IIIT.rafiya@research.iiit.ac.in,dipti@iiit.ac.inAbstractThis paper introduces a preliminarywork on Hindi causative verbs: theirclassification, a linguistic model fortheir classification and their verbframes.
The main objective of this workis to come up with a classification of theHindi causative verbs.
In the classifica-tion we show how different types ofHindi verbs have different types ofcausative forms.
It will be a linguisticresource for Hindi causative verbswhich can be used in various NLP ap-plications.
This resource enriches the al-ready available linguistic resource onHindi verb frames (Begum et al,2008b).
This resource will be helpful ingetting proper insight into Hindi verbs.In this paper, we present the morpholo-gy, semantics and syntax of the causa-tive verbs.
The morphology is capturedby the word generation process; seman-tics is captured by the linguistic modelfollowed for classifying the verbs andthe syntax has been captured by the verbframes using relations given by Panini.1 IntroductionVerbs play a major role in expressing the mean-ing of a sentence and its syntactic behavior.They decide the number of participants that willparticipate in the action.
Semantically verbs areclassified into action verbs, state verbs andprocess verbs.
Syntactically they are classifiedinto intransitives, transitives and ditransitives.The morphological, semantic and syntacticproperties of verbs play an important role indeeper level analysis such as parsing.Causative verbs are differently realized in dif-ferent languages.
These verbs have been an in-teresting area of study.
The study of causativeconstructions is important as it involves the in-teraction of various components such as seman-tics, syntax and morphology (Comrie, 1981).This paper presents the preliminary work onHindi causative verbs.2 Causative VerbsCausative verbs mean that some actor makessomebody else do something or causes him to bein a certain state (Agnihotri, 2007).
The causalverb indicates the causing of another to dosomething, instead of doing it oneself (Greaves,1983).
Semantically causative verbs refer to acausative situation which has two components:(a) the causing situation or the antecedent; (b)the caused situation or the consequent.
Thesetwo combine to make a causative situation (Ne-dyalkov and Silnitsky, 1973).
There are differ-ent ways in which causation is indicated in dif-ferent languages.
There are three types of causa-tives: Morphological causatives, Periphrasticcausatives and Lexical causatives (Comrie,1981).Morphological Causatives indicate causa-tion with the help of verbal affixes.
Sanskrit,Hindi/Urdu, Persian, Arabic, Hebrew, Japanese,Khmer and Finnish languages have morpholog-ical causatives.
Periphrastic causatives indi-cate causation with the help of a verb whichoccurs along with the main verb.
For example,in English in a sentence such as:(1) John made the child drink milk.In the above example the verb make is ex-pressing causation which is occurring alongwith the verb drink which in turn is expressing120the main action.
English, German and Frenchare some of the languages which have periph-rastic causatives.
Lexical causatives are thosein which there is no morphological similaritybetween the base verb root and the causativeverb form.
A different lexical item is used toindicate causation.
For example, the causativeof English eat is feed.
English and Japanesehave lexical causatives.
English has both pe-riphrastic and lexical causatives.3 Causative verbs in HindiCausatives in Hindi are realized through a mor-phological process.
In Hindi, a base verb rootchanges to a causative verb when affixed byeither an ?-aa?
or a ?-vaa?
suffix.Base verb First causal  Second causalso  sul-aa   sul-vaa?sleep?
?put to sleep?
?cause to put tosleep?In each step of causative derivation there isan increase in the valency of the verb (Kachru,2006; Comrie, 1981)(2) baccaa   soyaachild       sleep.Pst?The child slept.?
(3) aayaa ne     bacce ko         sulaayaamaid   Erg.
child Acc.
sleep.Caus.Pst?The maid put the child to sleep.?
(4) maa.N  ne           aayaa se        bacce komother Erg.
maid   by       child  Acc.sulvaayaasleep.Caus.Pst?Mother caused the maid to put the child tosleep.
?Hindi verbs are divided into two groupsbased on their behaviour in causative sentences:affective verbs and effective verbs (Kachru,2006).
The action of affective verbs benefits oraffects the agent.
Affective verbs will have bothfirst and second causal forms.
Verbs such asronaa ?to cry?
and dau.Dnaa ?to run?
are affec-tive intransitive verbs.
Only verbs belonging tokhaanaa ?to eat?
class come under affectivetransitive verbs.
The agent of the affective in-transitive verb becomes the patient and theagent of the affective transitive verbs becomesthe recipient in the first causal and they bothwill take a ko postpositon (Hindi case marker).Effective verbs and ditransitive verbs have onlyone causal form.
The agent of the effective verband ditransitive verb becomes the causativeagent in the first causal.
So this causative agentin the first causal takes a se ?with?
postposition(Hindi case marker).
Verbs belonging to karnaa?to do?
class come under the effective verbs.The major studies in Hindi causatives: Kach-ru (1966), Kachru (1980), Kachru (2006),McGregor (1995), Greaves (1983), Kellogg(1972), Agnihotri (2007), Sahaay (2004), Sa-haay  (2007), Singh (1997) and Tripathi (1986).Kachru (1966) has given the classification ofHindi verbs based on their causativization beha-vior.
The others have mostly talked about thederivation process of the causative verbs.However the classification of causative verbsin Hindi remains an issue of discussion.
Sincethey are morphologically related, the decision ofwhat is the base verb form of these verbs re-mains a point of discussion.
There are two ap-proaches which are followed in deciding thebase verb: (1) causative formation based onlyon morphology, (2) causative formation basedon morphology and semantics.I.Based on MorphologyBase verb         First causal  Second causal(Intransitive)     (Transitive)        (Causative)khul         khol   khulvaa?open?
?open?
?cause to open?II.
Based on Morphology and SemanticsIntransitive         Base verb  Second causal(Intransitive)        (Transitive)     (Causative)khul            khol   khulvaa?open?
?open?
?cause to open?In I, khul ?open?
is taken as the base verb andkhol ?open?
and khulvaa ?cause to open?
are de-rived from it by adding suffix ?-aa?
and ?-vaa?respectively to the base verb (Kachru, 1966;Kachru, 1980).
The arrow denotes the directionof derivation from base verb.
Here, the forwardarrow denotes the increment of the argumentfrom base to the causal forms.
On the other121hand, in II, khol ?open?
is taken as the base verb.Here, other than morphology, the semantics ofthe verbs is also taken into consideration.
Herekhul ?open?
and khulvaa ?cause to open?
are de-rived from the base verb khol ?open?.
khulvaa?cause to open?
is a causative verb which is de-rived from the base verb by adding suffix ?-vaa?to it.
khul ?open?
is a derived intransitive form.The agent of the base verb khol ?open?
is notrealized on the surface level of the derived in-transitive verb khul ?open?
though it is impliedsemantically.
Here there is both forward andbackward derivation.
From base verb to the de-rived intransitive it is a backward derivationwhich means there is a reduction of one argu-ment from base verb to the derived intransitiveverb (Tripathi, 1986; Reinhart, 2005).In this paper, we motivate our work by pre-senting our approach for classifying the causa-tive verbs in Hindi.4 Our Approach4.1 Linguistic Model for Classifying Caus-ative verbsWe have followed Paninian Grammaticalframework in this model as the theoretical basisfor our approach.
The meaning of every verbalroot (dhaatu) consists of: (a) activity (vyaapaa-ra) and; (b) result (phala).
Activity denotes theactions carried out by the various participants(karakas) involved in the action.
Result denotesthe state that is reached, when the action iscompleted (Bharati et al, 1995).
The partici-pants of the action expressed by the verb rootare called karakas.
There are six basic karakas,namely; adhikarana ?location?, apaadaan?source?, sampradaan ?recipient?, karana ?in-strument?, karma ?theme?
and karta ?agent?
(Begum et al, 2008a).
Here the mapping be-tween karakas and theta roles is a rough map-ping.The karta karaka is the locus of the activity.Similarly karma karaka is the locus of the re-sult.
The locus of the activity implied by theverbal root can be animate or inanimate.
Sen-tence (2) given above, is the example where thelocus of the activity is animate.
Sentence (5)given below, is the example where the locus ofthe activity is inanimate.
(5) darvaazaa   khulaadoor             open.Pst?Door opened.?
(6) raam ne     darvaazaa    kholaaram   Erg.
door             open.Pst?Ram opened the door.?
(7) maiM ne      raam se      darvaazaaI         Erg.
ram    by     doorkhulvaayaaopen.Caus.Pst?I made Ram open the door.
?When we come to the causatives, the notionof prayojak karta ?causer?, prayojya karta?causee?
and madhyastha karta ?mediatorcauser?
are introduced.
prayojak karta ?causer?is the initiator of the action.
prayojya karta?causee?
is the one who is made to do the actionby the prayojak karta ?causer?.
madhyasta karta?mediator causer?
is the causative agent of theaction.
The karta of the base verb becomes theprayojya karta of the causative verb and theprayojak karta of the first causative becomesthe madhyasta karta of the second causative.This model takes both semantics andmorphology into consideration.4.1.1 Semantics(8) caabii  ne    taalaa  kholaakey      Erg   lock     open.Pst?The key opened the lock.?
(9)* raam  ne   caabii  se   taalaa  khulvaayaaram   Erg.
key    by    lock    open.Caus.Pst?Ram caused the key to open the lock.?
(10)raam ne   mohan  dvaaraa caabii  se  taalaaram  Erg.
mohan  by           key     with lockkhulvaayaaopen.Caus.Pst.
?Ram made Mohan open the lock with thekey.
?In (8), caabii ?key?
is the karta of the transi-tive verb khol ?open?.
caabii ?key?
is an inani-mate karta so this sentence can?t be causati-vized.
(8) has been tried to causativize in (9)which is unacceptable.
(9) is actually interpretedas (10) where an inanimate  noun with a se?with?
postposition acts as an instrument and notas a prayojya karta ?causee?.
So in (10), caabii122?key?
is an inanimate noun and takes se ?with?postposition so caabii  se ?with the key?
acts asinstrument and mohan ?Mohan?
acts as theprayojya karta ?causee?
(Kachru, 1966).
Itseems that only those verbs can be causativizedwhich take an animate karta.Out of the above two given approaches, weare following approach II where both morphol-ogy and semantics are considered.
In our ap-proach we are saying that only those base verbscan be causativized which take an animate kartaand it should also have volitionality (Tripathi,1986; Reinhart, 2005).
Those base verbs whichtake an inanimate karta can?t be causativized.So in our approach the prayojya karta ?causee?in the causative sentence is always animate asthe karta of the base verb becomes the prayojyakarta ?causee?
in the causative sentences.
In ourapproach we have the notion of karmakartriwhich says an intransitive can be derived out ofa basic transitive verb and the karma of the ba-sic transitive verb becomes the karta of the de-rived intransitive verb.
So the karta of the de-rived intransitive verb is called karmakartri.The derived intransitive verbs are like unaccusa-tive verbs of English.Whereas in approach I, the intransitive baseverbs that take both animate and inanimate kar-ta can be causativized.
But in case of transitives,base verbs which take only animate karta can becausativized.
Ditransitives can also be causati-vized.
(Kachru 1966; Kachru 1980)We follow the dependency tagging schemeproposed by Begum et al (2008a) for the devel-opment of a dependency annotation for IndianLanguages.
In this scheme prayojak karta?causer?, prayojya karta ?causee?
and madhyas-tha karta ?mediator causer?
are represented aspk1, jk1 and mk1 respectively.Some of the base verb forms and their causa-tive sentences are given below with dependencyrelations marked in the brackets for the appro-priate arguments:(11) raam ne(k1)  seb(k2)       khaayaaram   Erg.
apple           eat.Pst?Ram ate an apple.?
(12) siitaa ne(pk1) raam ko(jk1)  seb(k2)sita    Erg.
ram   Acc.
applekhilaayaaeat.Caus.Pst?Sita fed Ram an apple.?
(13)maa.N  ne(pk1) siitaa se(mk1) raam ko(jk1)mother  Erg.
sita     by          ram  Acc.seb(k2)    khilvaayaaapple       eat.Caus.Pst.
?Mother caused Sita to feed Ram an apple.?
(14) naukar  ne(k1)  kaam(k2)  kiyaaservant Erg.
work         do.Pst?The servant did the work.?
(15) maalik ne(pk1) naukar  se(mk1)   kaam(k2)master Erg.
servant by             workkarvaayaado.Caus.Pst?The master caused Ram to do the job.?
(16) raam ne(k1)  siitaa ko(k4) kitaab (k2)  diiram    Erg.
sita    Dat.
book    give.Pst?Ram gave a book to Sita.?
(17) mohan ne(pk1) raam se(jk1) siitaa ko(k4)mohan Erg.
ram   by        sita    Dat.kitaab(k2)  dilaaiibook           give.Caus.Pst?Mohan made Ram give a book to Sita.?
(18) mujhko(k4a)  chaa.Nd(k1)   dikhaaI.Dat.
moon             appear.Pst?The moon became visible to me.?
(19) maiM ne(k1)  chaa.Nd(k2)  dekhaaI        Erg.
moon            see.Pst?I saw the moon.?
(20) maiM    ne(pk1) raam ko(jk1)  chaa.Nd(k2)mother Erg.
ram  Dat.
moondikhaayaasee.Caus.Pst?Mother showed moon to Ram.?
(21) maiM ne(pk1)  mohan se(mk1)I         Erg.
mohan byraam ko(jk1)    chaa.Nd(k2)   dikhlaayaaram   Dat.
moon             see.Caus.Pst?Mother made Mohan show moon to Ram.
?1234.1.2 MorphologyIn this section we have given the derivationprocess of the Hindi causative verbs.
We havestudied 160 Hindi verbs and have come up withcertain number of rules for the derivationprocess of causative verbs.When causative affixes are added to the baseverb roots then some of the base verb rootschange in form and some don?t.
Various causalaffixes are added to each verb type to formcausatives.
An example of affix addition foreach verb type is discussed below.
The affixesthat are added are given in bold.
The changes inthe base verb root are underlined and made boldin both root form and the causal form.4.1.2.1 Type-1 and its causative forms:Suffix ?-aa?
is added to the verb root to form thefirst causal and ?-vaa?
to form the secondcausal.No Change in the Root:Chip  Chip-aa Chip-vaa?hide?
?hide?
?cause to hide?Change in the Root:?
aa ?
?anaach        nach-aa         nach-vaa?dance?
?make someone dance?
?cause to makesomeone dance?4.1.2.2 Type-2 and its causative forms:Suffix ?-aa?
is added to the verb root to form thefirst causal and ?-vaa?
to form the secondcausal.No Change in the Root:likh  likh-aa  likh-vaa?write?
?dictate?
?cause to dictate?Change in the root:?
aa,  ii  ?
i;In addition, 'l' isinserted here between the root andthe causative suffix.khaa          khi-l-aa khi-l-vaa?eat?
?feed?
?cause to feed?pii    pi-l-aa  pi-l-vaa?drink?
?make someone drink?
?cause to makesomeone drink?4.1.2.3 Type-3 and its causative forms:Suffix ?-vaa?
is added to the verb root to formthe first causal.No Change in the Root:khariid   khariid-vaa?buy?
?cause to buy?Change in the Root:?
aa  ?
agaa   ga-vaa?sing?
?cause to sing?4.1.2.4 Type-4 and its causative forms:Suffix ?-aa/-vaa?
is added to the verb root toform the first causal.No Change in the Root:paros   paros-vaa?serve?
?cause to serve?Change in the root:?
e  ?
i; In addition, 'l' isinserted here between the root andthe causative suffix.de          di-l-aa /di-l-vaa?give?
?cause to give?In case type-5 and type-6 verbs, we can de-rive intransitive verbs out of transitive verbs.Here we have two types of word formations:?
causative formation,?
Derived intransitive verb formationCausative derivation is the forward deriva-tion and intransitive derivation is backward de-rivation.4.1.2.5 Type-5 and its causative forms:Suffix ?-aa?
is added to the verb root to form thefirst causal and ?vaa?
to form  the second causal.In this verb type there is no example where the124verb root form doesn?t change.Causative Formation: Change in the root?
e  ?
idekh     dikh-aa  dikh-vaa?see?
?show?
?cause to show?Derived intransitive formation: Change inthe above root:?
i          edikh             dekh?appear?
?see?4.1.2.6 Type-6 and its causative forms:Suffix ?-aa/-vaa?
is added to the transitive verbroot to form the first causal.Causative formation: No change in the rootbhar   bhar-vaa /bhar-aa?fill?
?cause someone to fill?Derived intransitive formation: No change inthe rootbhar                       bhar?to fill?
?to fill?Causative formation: Change in the root?
o      ?
u; In addition, 'l' is insertedhere between the root and thecausative suffixdho   dhu-l-aa /dhu-l-vaa?wash?
?cause to wash?Derived intransitive formation: Change inthe above root:?
u        o; In addition, 'l' is inserted atthe end of the rootdhu-l   dho?be washed?
?cause to wash?In the implementation of the causative verbs,the causative feature of a verb is reflected in themorph analysis.
There are two possible ways toimplement causative information: (i) All thecausative verb roots are included in the root dic-tionary of the morph analyzer with an additionalfeature marking it a causative verb type.
(ii) Forall causative verbs the following information ismarked; causative root, base root, verb type andcausative suffix.
In (i), the information of baseverb root from which the causative root is de-rived is missing which is captured in (ii).
In theabove mentioned two ways the latter gives moredetailed information than the former.4.2 Methodology of the WorkFor this work, 160 base verbs were taken, theircausative forms were given and were classified.Rules for deriving causative verb forms fromtheir base forms were made.
Verb frames forbase verbs and their causative forms were de-veloped.
Based on the analysis of the base verbscertain problem cases were logged and generali-zations regarding causativization were made.
Inthis paper, we briefly discuss about all thepoints  mentioned above.4.3 Classification of Hindi CausativeVerbsHere Hindi verbs have been classified into 6types based on their causativization behavior:?
Type-1: Basic Intransitive verbBasic intransitive verb has two causal formsi.e., first causal and second causal form.
Firstcausal of the basic intransitive verb functions asa transitive verb.
The subject of the basic intran-sitive verb becomes the object of the transitiveverb or the first causal form.
The subject of thefirst causal form becomes the causative agent ofthe second causal form.
Sentence (2) is the ex-ample of basic intransitive and sentences (3)and (4) are its causative forms.?
Type-2: Basic Transitive verb type-I (whichis similar to khaanaa ?to eat?
verb type giv-en by Kachru (1966))?
Type-3: Basic Transitive verb type-II(which is similar to karnaa ?to eat?
verbtype given by Kachru (1966))Type-2 and type-3 are transitive verbs whichare divided into two types based on their causa-tivization behavior.
Basic transitive verbs oftype-I, like khaanaa ?to eat?
have two causalforms.
First causal of khaanaa ?to eat?
type verb125also functions as ditransitive.
Whereas transitiveverbs of type-II, like karnaa ?to do?
have onecausal form.
First causal of karnaa ?to eat?
typeverb functions as causative.
Sentences (11-13)are examples for type-2 verb.
Sentences (14-15)are examples for type-3 verb.?
Type-4: Basic Ditransitive verbDitransitive verbs also have one causal form.Sentences (16-17) are examples for type-4 verb.?
Type-5: Basic Transitive verb type-I, out ofwhich intransitive verbs can be derivedwhich takes a dative subject,?
Type-6: Basic Transitive verb type-II, outof which intransitive verbs can be derived.Type-5 and type-6 are transitive verbs whichhave causal forms depending on whether it istype-I (khaanaa ?to eat?)
transitive or type-II(karnaa ?to do?)
transitive and in addition bothhave a derived intransitive form.
Type-5 takes adative subject in the base form.
Sentences (18-21) are examples for type-5 verb.
Sentences (5-7) are examples for type-6 verb.
Other than the4 classes classified by Kachru (1966), we havetwo more extra classes, i.e., type-5 and type-6.An example for each verb type that goes intothe classification is given below:?
Type-1Base verb First causal Second Causalso  sulaa  sulvaa?sleep?
?put to sleep?
?cause to put to sleep??
Type-2Base verb First causal Second Causalkhaa  khilaa  khilvaa?eat?
?feed?
?cause to feed??
Type-3Base verb First causalkar        karaa/karvaa?do?
?cause to do??
Type-4Base verb First causalde         dilaa/dilvaa?give?
?cause to give??
Type-5Intransitive  Base verbdikh             dekh?appear?
?see?Base verb First causal Second Causaldekh  dikhaa  dikhvaa?see?
?show?
?cause toshow??
Type-6Intransitive  Base verbkhul            khol?open?
?open?Base verb   First causalkhol      khulvaa?open?
?cause to open?5 Verb FramesIn this section we list out the syntactic framesfor all the causative types discussed in the pre-vious sections.
Verb frame (Begum et al,2008b) is given for the base form and for itsfirst and second causal form.
For ease of exposi-tion, below we show only the relevant informa-tion of a verb frame.
Components not necessaryfor the present discussion have been left out.Here the structure of a verb frame is given interms of dependency relation, postposition(Hindi case marker) and TAM.
We have takenpast tense (yaa is the past tense marker) in theTAM.
Refer the examples given above for eachtype of causatives for a better understanding ofthe frames.I.Frame of Type-1 and its Causative Forms:Relation-Postposition                    TAM(a)k1-0     yaa(b)pk1-ne      jk1-ko  yaa(c)pk1-ne      mk1-se jk1- ko  yaaII.Frame of Type-2 and its Causative Forms:Relation-Postposition                    TAM(a)k1-ne   k2-0 yaa(b)pk1-ne          jk1-ko     k2-0 yaa126(c)pk1-ne    mk1-se    jk1- ko     k2-0 yaaIII.
Frame of Type-3 and its CausativeForms:Relation-Postposition                    TAM(a)k1-ne                           k2-0         yaa(b)pk1-ne       jk1-se        k2-0          yaaIV.
Frame of Type-4 and its CausativeForms:Relation-Postposition                    TAM(a) k1-ne            k4-ko     k2-0        yaa(b) pk1-ne     jk1-se    k4-ko      k2-0   yaaV.
Frame of Type-5 and its Causative Forms:Relation-Postposition                    TAM(a)k4a-ko  k1                      aa(b)k1-ne                   k2-0         aa(c)pk1-ne                        jk1-ko      k2-0       yaa(d)pk1-ne     mk1-se      jk1-ko       k2-0        yaaVI.
Frame of Type-6 and its CausativeForms:Relation-Postposition                    TAM(a)k1-0        aa(b)k1-ne       k2-0                   aa(c)pk1-ne       jk1-se           k2-0            yaa6 Issues and ObservationsThere are some verbs which can?t be causati-vized.
Motion verbs like aa ?come?
and jaa ?go?can?
t be causativized.
After analysing certainamount of corpus we have observed that not allmotion verbs behave like the above verbs .
aa-naa ?to come?
and jaanaa ?to go?
verbs can't becausativized because these verbs always occuras main verbs and take the following verbs asmanner adverbs: chalnaa, bhaagnaa, daudnaa.For instance, chalkar aayaa ?came running?
anddaudkar gayaa ?went running?.
Those motionverbs which occur as manner adverbs and modi-fy another motion verb can be causativized andthose verbs which occur as main verbs and nev-er occur as manner adverbs of another motionverb can't be causativized.
Natural process verbslike khil ?blossom?, garajnaa ?thunder?
and ug?rise?
also can?t be causativized.There are three types of the verb nikal?leave?.
All the three are used as intransitives.?
derived intransitive: sense ?
drain out(22) paanii  kamre se       nikal   gayaawater   room  from   leave  go.Pst.
?Water drained out of the room.??
Baisc Intransitive: sense ?
walked out(23) raam  kamre  se     baahar  nikal    gayaaram    room  from  out         leave  go.Pst.
?Ram walked out of the room.??
Baisc Intransitive which involves naturalprocess.
(24) gangaa  gangotrii se       nikaltiiganga     gangotri  from  emerge.Impf.haibe.Pres.
?Ganga emerges from Gangotri.
?The first type is a derived intransitive whichis derived from the base transitive verb nikaal?remove?.
This base transitive verb root can becausativized.
The second type is basic intransi-tive which can also be causativized.
The thirdtype which is natural process can?t be causati-vized.
This shows how important the propertyof animacy for making causatives is.7 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this work we flesh out the linguistic devicesthat work for causativization.
In this paper wehave introduced a preliminary work on Hindicausative verbs.
We have given the classifica-tion of causative verbs and the linguistic modelfollowed for their classification.
We have alsogiven the verb frames of the causative verbs.These insights have been incorporated in theHindi dependency treebank (Bhatt et al, 2009).We also plan to use the verb frames in a Hindidependency parser (Bharati et al, 2009) to im-prove its performance.127ReferencesAgnihotri, Rama K. 2007.
Hindi, An EssentialGrammar.
Routledge, London and New York, pp.121-126.Balachandran, Lakshmi B.
1973.
A Case Grammarof Hindi.
Central Institute of India, Agra.Begum, Rafiya, Samar Husain, Arun Dhwaj, DiptiM.
Sharma, Lakshmi Bai and Rajeev Sangal.2008.
Dependency Annotation Scheme for IndianLanguages.
Proceedings of The Third Interna-tional Joint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing (IJCNLP), Hyderabad, India.Begum, Rafiya, Samar Husain, Dipti M. Sharma andLakshmi Bai.
2008.
Developing Verb Frames inHindi.
In Proceedings of The Sixth InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evalua-tion (LREC).
Marrakech, Morocco.Bharati, Akshar, Vineet Chaitanya, and Rajeev San-gal.
1995.
Natural Language Processing: A Pani-nian Perspective, Prentice-Hall of India, NewDelhi, pp.
65-106.Bharati, Akshar, Samar Husain, Dipti Misra Sharmaand Rajeev Sangal.
2009.
Two stage constraintbased hybrid approach to free word order lan-guage dependency parsing.
In Proceedings of the11th International Conference on Parsing Tech-nologies (IWPT09).
Paris.Bhatt, Rajesh, Bhuvana Narasimhan, Martha Palmer,Owen Rambow, Dipti Misra Sharma, Fei Xia.2009.
A Multi-Representational and Multi-Layered Treebank for Hindi/Urdu.
In the ThirdLinguistic Annotation Workshop (The LAW III) inconjunction with ACL/IJCNLP 2009.
Singapore.Comrie, Bernard.
1981.
Language Universals andLinguistic typology: Syntax and Morphology.
TheUniversity of Chicago Press.Greaves, Edwin.
1983.
Hindi Grammar.
Asian Edu-cational Services, New Delhi, pp.
301-313Kachru, Yamuna.
1966.
Introduction To Hindi Syn-tax.
University of Illinois, Illionois, pp.
62-81Kachru, Yamuna.
1980.
Aspects of Hindi Grammar.Manohar Publications.Kachru, Yamuna.
2006.
Hindi.
London Oriental andAfrican Language Libtary.Kale, M.R.
1960.
A Higher Sanskrit Grammar.
Mo-tilal Banarasidass, Delhi.Kellogg, S. H. 1972.
A Grammar of the Hindi Lan-guage.
Munshiram Manoharlal, New Delhi, pp.253-257.McGregor, R. S. 1995.
Outline of Hindi Grammar.Oxford University Press, pp.
118-125.Nedyalkov, Vladmir P., Georgij G. Silnitsky.
1973.The typology of Morphological and LexicalCausatives, in: F. Kiefer, (ed.
), Trends in SovietTheoretical Linguistics, Foundations of Language,Supplementary Series 18, Dordrecht, 1-32.Reinhart, Tanya.
2005.
Causativization and Decau-sativization: Unpublished technical report.
LSA2005.Sahaay, Chaturbhuj.
2004.
Hindi ke Muul VaakyaSaanche, Kumar Prakaashan, Agra, pp.
91-100.Sahaay, Chaturbhuj.
2007.
Hindi Padvigyaan, Ku-mar Prakaashan, Agra.Shastri, Charu D. 1990.
Panini: Re-Interpreted.
Mo-tilal Banarasidass, Delhi.Singh, Rajendra and Rama K. Agnihotri.
1997.
HindiMorphology: A Word-based Description.
MotilalBanarasidass, Delhi.Tripathi, Acharya R. 1986.
Hindi Bhashaanushasan.Bihar Granth Academy, Patna.128
