Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Computational Linguistics in a World of Social Media, pages 5?6,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetecting Word Misuse in ChineseWei LiuDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of SheffieldW.Liu@dcs.shef.ac.ukAbstractSocial Network Service (SNS) and personalblogs have become the most popular platformfor online communication and sharing infor-mation.
However because most modern com-puter keyboards are Latin-based, Asian lan-guage speakers (such as Chinese) has to relyon a input system which accepts Romanisationof the characters and convert them into charac-ters or words in that language.
In Chinese thisform of Romanisation (usually called Pinyin)is highly ambiguous, word misuses often oc-cur because the user choose a wrong candi-date or deliverately substitute the word withanother character string that has the identicalRomanisation to convey certain semantics, orto achieve a sarcasm effect.
In this paper weaim to develop a system that can automati-cally identify such word misuse, and suggestthe correct word to be used.1 IntroductionA certain kind of derogatory opinion is being con-veyed in Chinese chat forums and SNS sites throughthe use of Chinese Hanzi (hieroglyphic) characters.There is potential for this to happen whenever twoexpressions are pronounced in a similar way in Chi-nese.
For exmaple, irate readers have used ????
(?Ji Zhe?)
for ????
(?Ji Zhe?).
While ???
?means reporter or journalist, ????
can be inter-preted as prostitute.There are 5000 commonly used characters.
Whilethe number of distinct Pinyin (toneless) is only 412.Therefore Pinyin to character conversion is highlyambigurous and is a active research topic (Zhouet al, 2007), (Lin and Zhang, 2008), (Chen andLee, 2000).
On the other hand, automatic Pinyingeneration is considered a solved task, (Liu andGuthrie, 2009) shows that using the most frequentPinyin approach to assign Pinyin to each charactercan achieve 98% accuracy.
In fact, we test on the Gi-gaword Chinese (Verson 2) corpus and find out thatonly about 15% of the characters have ambigurousPinyin.2 Automatically Detecting Word MisuseWe divided the detection process into three steps asbelow:?
Segmentation: Given a piece of Chinese text,we first feed it into an automatic word seg-menter (Zhang et al, 2003) to break the textinto semantic units.
Because we consider onlymultiple-character anomaly cases, anomaliescan only be contained within sequences of sin-gle characters.?
Character sequence extraction: After segmen-tation, we are interested in sequences of sin-gle characters, because anomalies will occuronly within those sequences.
Once we obtainthese sequences, we generate all possible sub-strings for each sequence because any anoma-lous words can be part of a character sequence.?
Detection: We assume the anomaly sharesmany phonetic similarities with the ?true?word.
As a result we need a method forcomparing pronunciations of two character se-quences.
Here we use the Pinyin to representphonetics of a Chinese character, and we de-fine two pronunciations to be similar when theyboth have identical Pinyin (not including thetone).
We use character-to-pinyin conversiontool1 to create a Pinyin-to-Word hash table us-ing the machine-segmented Chinese Gigaword1http://pinyin4j.sourceforge.net/5ver.
2.
Once we have the resources, we firstproduce all possible Pinyin sequences of eachcharacter sequence.Next we do a Pinyin-wordlook up in the hash table we created; if thereexists any entries, we know that the Pinyin se-quence maps to one or more ?real?
words.
Con-sequently, we consider any character sequenceswhose Pinyin maps to these words to be possi-ble anomalies.3 Data and ExperimentsWe have conducted preliminary experiments to testour algorithm.
To start with, we manually gath-ered a small number of documents which containanomalous phrases of the type described above.
Thedocuments are gathered from internet chat-roomsand contain 3,797 Chinese characters: the anoma-lies herein are shown in table 1.Intended Misused Pinyin Freqword character seq.??
??
Mei guo 43(The U.S.)??
??
Jiao shou 23(Professor)??
??or??
Ou xiang 12(Role model)Table 1: Testing document3.1 Results and DiscussionsWe evaluate our identification/correction perfor-mance using standard measures of standard preci-sion and recall.
We tested our performance usingbigram thresholds of 0, 1 and 2.Table 2 shows the performances of our method.No.
of misused chararcter sequence 78Total identified 130Correctly identified 78Precision 60%Recall 100%F-measure 75%Table 2: Result for word misuse identificationThe initial experiments showed that our methodcan successfully identify and correct the three ex-amples of non-word anomalies with reasonable pre-cision and recall.
The method obtains 100% recallhowever it generates a lot of false positives; this canbe seen in a relatively low precision of 60%.In summary, our method is successful at iden-tifying genuine anomalous non-word character se-quences; however the method also retrieves somefalse positives, due to the highly ambiguous Pinyinto word mappings.4 Future WorkOur experiments shows that our preliminary methodcan detect word misuses due to the Pinyin sequencebeing idential but with a relatively high false posi-tives.
In the future we plan to use other contextualevidence, such as pointwise mutual information tomodel whether the candidate sequence generated byour method is a better fit than the original sequence.We also plan to gather more real data that containmisuse of our interests.ReferencesChen, Z. and Lee, K.-F. (2000).
A new statistical ap-proach to chinese pinyin input.
In In Proceedings ofthe 38th Annual Meeting on Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 241?247, Hong Kong.Lin, B. and Zhang, J.
(2008).
A novel statistical chi-nese language model and its application in pinyin-to-character conversion.
In CIKM ?08: Proceeding of the17th ACM conference on Information and knowledgemanagement, pages 1433?1434, New York, NY, USA.ACM.Liu, W. and Guthrie, L. (2009).
Chinese pinyin-textconversion on segmented text.
In TSD ?09: Pro-ceedings of the 12th International Conference on Text,Speech and Dialogue, pages 116?123, Berlin, Heidel-berg.
Springer-Verlag.Zhang, H.-P., Liu, Q., Cheng, X.-Q., Zhang, H., and Yu,H.-K. (2003).
Chinese lexical analysis using hierar-chical hidden markov model.
In Proceedings of thesecond SIGHAN workshop on Chinese language pro-cessing, pages 63?70, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Zhou, X., Hu, X., Zhang, X., and Shen, X.
(2007).
Asegment-based hidden markov model for real-settingpinyin-to-chinese conversion.
In CIKM ?07: Pro-ceedings of the sixteenth ACM conference on Con-ference on information and knowledge management,pages 1027?1030, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.6
