Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Computational Linguistics in a World of Social Media, pages 13?14,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Modeling Social and Content Dynamics in Discussion ForumsJihie Kim and Aram GalstyanInformation Sciences Institute / Univesity of Southern CaliforniaMarina del Rey, CA, USA{jihie,galstyan}@isi.eduExtended AbstractRecent years have witnessed the transformation ofthe World Wide Web from an information-gatheringand processing tool into an interactive communica-tion medium in the form of online discussion fo-rums, chat?rooms, blogs, and so on.
There is strongevidence suggesting that social networks facilitatenew ways to interact with information in such me-dia.
Understanding the mechanisms and the patternsof such interactions can be important for many ap-plications.
Currently, there is not much work thatadequately models interaction between social net-works and information content.
From the perspec-tive of social network analysis, most existing workis concerned with understanding static topologicalproperties of social networks represented by suchforums.
For instance, Park and Maurer (2009) ap-plied node clustering to identify consensus and con-sensus facilitators, while Kang et al (2009) usesdiscussion thread co-participation relations to iden-tify (static) groups in discussions.
On discussioncontent analysis research side, there have been ap-proaches for classifying messages with respect to di-alogue roles (Carvalho and Cohen, 2005; Ravi andKim, 2007), but they often ignore the role and theimpact of underlying social interactions.Thus, the current static network and content anal-ysis approaches provide limited support for?
Capturing dynamics of social interactions: thesequence of communication or who is respond-ing to whom is important in understanding thenature of interactions.?
Relating social interactions to content analysis:the content can give hint on the nature of the in-teraction and vice versa (e.g., users with moresocial interactions are more likely to have com-mon interests).To address the above issues, one needs to gobeyond the static analysis approach, and developdynamical models that will explicitly account forthe interplay between the content of communication(topics) and the structure of communications (socialnetworks).
Such framework and corresponding al-gorithmic base will allow us to infer ?polarizing?topics discussed in forums, identify evolving com-munities of interests, and examine the link betweensocial and content dynamics.To illustrate the advantages and the need for morefine?grained analysis, we now turn to a concrete ex-ample.
Figure 1(a) provides a sample of discus-sion co-participation network from an online discus-sion forum.
Each oval node represents a user andeach square shows a discussion thread, while eacharrow represents users participating in the thread.The numbers on the arrow represent the number ofmessages contributed to the thread.
Ten discussionthreads with 127 messages from 43 users are cap-tured.
Based on this network, we can identify usersthat have similar interests, cluster topics and/or usersaccording to similarities, and so on.
However, thisnetwork is too coarse?grained to get additional in-formation about the social interactions.
For instance,it does not say anything whether co?participatingusers have similar or conflicting views.We now contrast the above network with a morefine?grained representation of forum dynamics.
Weperformed a thorough manual analysis of threads, bytaking into account the sequence of messages to con-struct response?to graph, and then manually anno-tating the attitudes of each message towards the oneit was responding to.
Figure 1(b) provides a signedattitude network from the same dataset as the oneused for Figure 1(a).
Each node represents a userand an arrow shows how one replies to the other.13: a thread(a)+ +++- -(b)Figure 1: (a) Thread participation network; (b) Signedattitude network.
In (b), the circles show two trianglerelationships suggested by structural balance theory.The numbers on the arrow represent the number ofthe reply?to occurrences, while the color of the linkrepresents the attitude.
Here we use a very loosedefinition of ?attitude?.
Namely, positive (blue) at-titude means that the posting user agrees with theprevious comment or message, or expresses friendlysentiments.
And negative attitude means disagree-ing with the previous message or using outright of-fensive language.
The resulting signed network dif-ferentiates links between the users (friends or foes).Clearly, the resulting network is much more infor-mative about the social interactions among the users.Remarkably, even for the small manually collecteddata-set, the resulting network reproduces some ofthe known features of signed networks from socialsciences (Lescovec et.
al., 2010; Wassermanc andFaust, 1994).
For instance, the highlighted ovalsshow balanced triads: two friends with a commonenemy and three mutual friends.
This with struc-tural balance theory, which suggests that in signednetwork particular triads with odd number of posi-tive links (three mutual friends or two friends with acommon enemy) are more plausible than other cases(e.g.
three mutual foes).
As we add more data, weexpect more occurrences of such triads.Our current research focuses on automatingthe above process of network construction andanalysis.
To this end, we have been developingapproaches based on Dynamic Bayesian Networkswhere the nodes correspond to participating usersand messages, and the edges encode probabilisticdependence between message content and userattitudes.
In this framework, the content of amessage depends on the previous message aswell as on the attitude of the posting user to-wards both the content and the other user.
Theobservables in this model are the messages (andin some cases, some user?attributes such as age,location etc).
And the unobservables such asusers?
attitudes and social preferences are modeledthrough latent variables that need to be inferred.To be more specific, let u1 and u2 denote thevariables describing the users, and m1,m2, ...denote the message sequence.
Within the proposedgenerative framework, the goal is to calculatethe posterior probability P (u1, u2|m1,m2, ...) ?pi(u1)pi(u2)pi(m1|u1)?Kt=2 P (mt|mt?1, ui=1,2).Here pi(.)
are the priors, and P (mt|mt?1, ui) is aprobability of seeing a particular response by theuser ui to a message mt?1, which will be estimatedusing annotated data and further refined throughEM?type approach.ReferencesCarvalho, V. and Cohen, W., On the collective classifica-tion of email speech acts.
Proc.
of SIGIR (2005).Kang, J., Kim, J. and Shaw, E., Profiling Student Groupsin Online Discussion with Network Analysis, Proc.
ofK-CAP wsp on Analyzing Social Media (2009).Leskovec, J. Huttenlocher, D. Kleinberg.
J.
Signed Net-works in Social Media.
ACM SIGCHI Conference onHuman Factors in Computing Systems (2010).Park, S. Maurer F. A.
Network Analysis of Stakeholdersin Tool Visioning Process for Story Test Driven De-velopment, Proc.
IEEE Int?l Conf.
on Engineering ofComplex Computer Systems, (2009)Ravi, S., Kim, J., Profiling Student Interactions inThreaded Discussions with Speech Act Classifiers.Proc.
AI in Education (2007).Wasserman, S. and Faust.
K. Social Network Analysis:Methods and Applications.
Camb.
U.
Press, (1994).14
