Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Sixth Web as Corpus Workshop, pages 26?31,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding  Webcorpora of Academic Prose with BootCaTGeorge L. DillonUniversity of WashingtonPO Box 354330Seattle, Washington, USAdillon@u.washington.eduAbstractA procedure is described to gather corpora of aca-demic writing from the web using BootCaT.
Theprocedure uses terms distinctive of different regis-ters and disciplines in COCA to locate and gatherweb pages containing them.1 IntroductionThis is  a preliminary report of the results of a newprocedure  for  building a  webcorpus of  academicwriting  using  BootCaT  seeded  searches  (Baroniand Bernardini,  2004).
The procedure inverts theusual one of finding text-internal traits that corre-late with externally defined corpora and subcorpo-ra (Lee, 2001).
Instead, we seek words and lexicalbundles  so  distinctive  of  a  text-type  (?register?
)that they will induce BootCaT to download texts ofthat type and no other.
In the initial phase, a list ofsearch seed terms is developed to download aca-demic texts; in the second phase, this procedure isrefined to increase its resolution, developing searchseeds that can bring in texts belonging to sub-typessuch as Science and Technology, Arts and Human-ities, History and Political Science, and so on.One might object that this is a solution to a non-problem:  that  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  limitsearches  to  the  .edu and  .ac.uk domains  tosearch for academic web texts, at least for US andUK academics.
It will become clear, however, thatquite a number of qualifying texts can be found else-where in other web domains such as .org, .gov,and even .com.2 Definitions2.1 Academic writing:Academic  writing  is  very  much  a  commonsense(or ?folk?)
category.
There is considerable agree-ment that it has research articles and books for dis-ciplinary audiences at its core, but how much morebeyond that is in question.
This study will draw onthree corpus-based studies:?
Coxhead's  Academic Word List  (AWL; 2000)is drawn from a corpus of 3.5 million words ofrunning text in 441 samples.
It is sorted into fourequally  represented domains  (Arts,  Commerce,Law, and Science).
AWL gives lists of key aca-demic words and word families stratified by fre-quency in the corpus.?
Biber et al's (1999) reference corpus for theirlists of academic lexical bundles is a 5.5 millionword corpus of articles and sections from books(in equal  halves)  with a few textbooks for  layreaders included.
This they further divide into 13disciplines.
Academic is one of four main parti-tions (which they call 'registers')1?
Davies'  Corpus  of  Contemporary  AmericanEnglish (COCA) (n.d.).
which divides contem-porary English into five meta-types, with Aca-demic as one of the five (80 million words)2.
It1The others are Conversation, Fiction, and News.2The others are Spoken, Fiction, (popular) Magazines, News-paper and Academic.26is made up entirely of articles in specialist jour-nals and in a few high-brow general interest pe-riodicals  (American  Scholar,  Raritan  Review,Literary  Review,  Cato  Journal).
It  includesmore disciplines (Religion, Fisheries, Photogra-phy, Military Science, Agriculture) and is sortedby Library of Congress top headings (A=Gener-al Works, B=Philosophy, Psychology, Religion,etc.)
consolidated into eight  groupings:  Educa-tion,  History,  Geog/SocSci,  Law/PolSci,  Hu-manities,  Phil/Rel,  Sci/Tech,  Medicine,  Misc(=LC A+Z).
These eight parts are searchable, sothat  we  can  determine  for  any  expression  notjust  whether  it  is  distinctively  academic,  butwhat subtype or types it is distinctive of.COCA is thus built along principles very similar tothose of AWL  and Biber et al's reference corpus,though it is 2 orders of magnitude larger than ei-ther.
We would expect AWL words and Biber etal.
's distinctively academic lexical bundles also tobe distinctively academic in COCA.2.2 ?Distinctive of?Here are two lists of  words and bundles that wecan check for distinctiveness in COCA:AWL LGSWEhypothesis as we have seenempirical extent to whichconstrain has been showna priori has been suggested thatideology interesting to notebias in the development ofconcurrent no significant differenceintrinsic presence or absence ofwhereas was found thatqualitativeTable 1: Academic Key Words (starter set)Each of these expressions occurs over four timesmore frequently in the COCA Academic registerthan any other and twice as frequently there as inall the others combined.
Let that be the workingdefinition  of  ?distinctive.?
So  for  example,  thepresence or absence of  occurs 3.72 times per mil-lion  words  in  the  COCA  Academic  subcorpus,0.35 times  per million in the Magazines, and neg-ligibly in Spoken,  Fiction,  and Newspapers.
It  isthus 10 times more frequent in the Academic sub-corpus than in Magazines and passes the 4 times ormore  criterion  for  distinctiveness.
In  addition,some frequent AWL words were checked for com-bining in bigrams, which have the potential of be-ing even more specific for domain/genre than indi-vidual words.
These indeed prove to be more dis-tinctive  than  the  individual  words  (though  ofcourse less frequent).
In the first column of Table 2are  the  frequencies  per  million  words  of  thesewords, phrases, and bigrams in COCA.Table 2: Frequency/Million of Seeds in COCA,Wikipedia,3 and  the  Collected Web CorporaThe next three columns give the frequencies/mil-lion words of these distinctive terms in each of thethree corpora collected from the Web with words,bundles,  and bigrams for  seeds.
(The x's  replacethe frequencies of the seed terms in the respective3from Corpuseye's 115M word Wikipedia A, B, C corpus athttp://corp.hum.sdu.dk/cqp.en.htmlwords seeds COCA words bundl bigram wikipedhypothesis 74 x 145 140 23empirical 58 x 30 189 8constrain 5.5 x 3 10 1a priori 7 x 3 15 1ideology 58 x 6 12 16bias 46 x 41 45 13concurrent 11 x 10 20 5intrinsic* 27 x 43 * 6whereas 105 x 237 114 46qualitative 38 x 22 109 3402 498 655 122acad_bundleas we have seen 6 9 x 2 0extent to which 37 40 x 47 3has been shown 9 11 x 30 4has been suggested that 3 4 x 3 6It is interesting to note 5 5 x 4 3in the development of 19 16 x 30 10no significant difference 8 4 x 6 0presence or absence of 4 4 x 7 1it was found that 5 2 x 9 296 95 137 29bigramsface validity 2 5 1 x 0these data 18 16 98 x 1important implications 5 4 5 x 0basic concepts 2 4 0 x 1theoretical framework 5 5 1 x 0intrinsic motivation 6 * 3 x 0these findings 32 19 75 x 1this interpretation 6 13 4 x 3previous work 3 3 11 x 1indicative of 11 7 15 x 389 75 214 10Total (minus  intrinsic)TotalTotal (minus  intrinsic)27corpora  made  with  them?the  numbers  are  ofcourse very high.)
These frequencies track thoseof  the  terms  in  the  COCA Academic  subcorpusquite  closely,  especially  the  'words'  corpus,  withthe  'bundle'  and  'bigram'  corpora  following  thesame pattern but at somewhat higher (i.e., 'richer')levels.The Wikipedia figures  are  included for compari-son.
The low frequency of these marker words andphrases  suggests  that  Wikipedia  is  not  very aca-demic in its style, which is perhaps not surprisingsince Wikipedia authors are not allowed to reporttheir own research or argue positions.Most of these putative marker terms are well rep-resented  across  the  eight  academic  domains  (the?spread?
is good).
A word that occurs only in onedomain will  appear  to  be  distinctively academic,but that is a misleading impression.
Stent,  for ex-ample,  occurs  only  in  the  Medical  domain  inCOCA (along with many other terms: stenosis, mi-tral?the list is very long).
Even when the matchof word and domain is not so clear cut, there arewords and phrases that are found preponderantly ina discipline or group of disciplines (a ?division?
inuniversity parlance) such as  the text itself and ear-ly modern, both Art/Humanities terms, and similar-ly of the nature of,  which scarcely occurs in Sci-ence or Medicine and only infrequently in Geogra-phy  and  Social  Science.
The  next  phase  of  thisproject will take up the question of increasing theresolution down to the level of a subdomain wherea particular set of terms is distinctive.3 Details of Constructing the Web CorporaThese  three  groups  of  seed  terms  were  used  tomake BootCaT tuples (3) and to find URLs of fileswhich contained all three terms of a tuple (with 20tuples each) and 40 documents for each tuple.
Eachlist of URLs was downloaded and cleaned of CSSstyle sheets: duplicates and dead-end (e. g., pass-worded)  sites  were  removed,  along  with  uncon-verted .pdf files.
(Yahoo!
rather than Google wasused  because  Yahoo!
filtered  out  most  of  the.pdfs and .doc files.
BootCaT was not too suc-cessful converting .pdf files: a number of themseemed non-standard or corrupt).At 3.4 million words, the 'single word' corpus wasthe largest  and had the most  pages;  the 'bundles'corpus was  intermediate in word count but had thefewest  pages.
The  corpus made  with the  bigramseeds was notably shorter (2.2 million words), butit was very efficient at bringing in occurrences ofseed terms from the other  sets.
The seed termsfrom all sets were used to cross-check (probe) foroccurrence in the other two corpora.
These resultsare given in Table 2 in the second and third col-umns.
There was no overlap of files (i. e., no filesin common) in the three downloaded Web corporaand only one overlap between probe term (intrin-sic) and file seed  (intrinsic motivation).A further set of  lexical bundles (not used as seeds)were run as probes and produced the same pattern(See  Table  3).
Most  of  these  are  it-impersonalconstructions,  and  it  is  not  news  that  academicwriting cultivates  the  impersonal  (though it  doesallow a little  we  plural first person to slip in);  infact, at this proof-of-concept stage, expected find-ings  are  confirmation  that  the  collected  corporahave  the  properties  of  academic  writing  as  weknow it  across  many  distinctive  lexical  bundles,not just the ones used as seeds.Table 3: Further probes of the 3 Collected Web CorporaAgain, the three web corpora track COCA veryclosely, with the 'bigram' corpus as the most effi-cient.4 Analysis of Web Corpora4.1  Top-level domainsTable 4 shows that these corpora draw from sever-al web top-level domains, with .com either first orsecond in rank for the three corpora.
(The top fourdomains  account  for  a  little  over  90%  of  thepages.
)lexical bundlesCOCA20words40/M20bun40/Mbigram4/Mit should be noted 13 14 16 19It is possible that 16 22 49 13it is necessary to 11 16 9 13it is important to 39 39 30 55as we shall see 4 1 5 1it can be seen that 1 1 2 1in the context of  44 49 28 70the degree to which 19 16 15 27of the nature of 7 13 7 12in this paper 14 27 24 53Total 188 198 182 26428Table 4: Size of Corpora and Range of Domains(Estimated Domain Counts)The  domain  counts  are  estimated,  since  a  grepsearch over-counts by including URLs referred toon the page as well as that of the page itself.
Thesefigures  are  estimated  from  the  URLs  in  the?cleaned_urls_list?
that  is  used  to  download  thepages.
Clearly  the  .edu top-level  domain is  notthe  only  or  even  the  most  productive  source  ofpages containing the search key words.
If these areindeed pages of academic writing, then quite a lotof academic writing on the web would get filteredout by using an .edu domain filter and a great dealfiltered out using ac.uk.4.2 Types of sitesThe  1656  downloaded  pages  came  from a  widerange of sites.
281 URLs had words such as  arti-cle, journal, paper, research, publication, or otherterm that identified the contents as scholarly arti-cles.
On the other hand, there were 26 entries fromen.wikipedia.org/wiki/; 17  pages  had  theword   blog in  their  URL and  17  had  the  wordcourses,  the latter being teaching sites with hand-outs.
There were nine pages of customer reviewsfrom  www.amazon.com/review and  15 pagesfrom  plato.stanford.edu/entries  whichis an encyclopedia of philosophy.
All of these sitesmight be said to be academic in a looser sense, theAmazon reviews being the most distant.5.0 The Next Phase: Increasing ResolutionIt is probably only a minority of 'academic' termsthat are commonly used across the board in all dis-ciplines (or groups of disciplines).
All disciplinesuse have argued,  presumably because argument isat the core of academic endeavor and because thepresent perfect is just right for summarizing otherpeople's  claims and your own.
And similarly,  alldisciplines have, or agree they should have, a theo-retical framework.
But one does NOT write I ar-gue in Medicine, or so COCA records, nor has theword interpretive any use in Medicine, though it iswidely used in all  the  other  disciplines.
On theother hand, Medicine has its own distinctive bun-dles  including  it  is  known that,  and  it  has  beenshown/suggested that (Oakey, 2002)4.It is fairly easy to gather terms that appear to bedistinctive of a certain discipline, or group of disci-plines, to use them to build web corpora like theones  illustrated  here,  and  to  take  frequent  termsfrom  the  gathered  corpora  to  do  another  searchwithin the discipline/domain, and so to build largerand  more  differentiated  corpora  that  match  theCOCA/Library  of  Congress  groupings  of  disci-plines  much as  has  been reported here  for  'Aca-demic' writing as such.
'Distinctive'  can be lessstringently  defined  in  this  application:  a  term  isdistinctive  in  an academic subdomain when it  isdistinctively academic and is at least twice as fre-quent in the subdomain as in the Academic domainas a whole.
The terms still have a strong selectiveeffect because when used in triplets, their selectiveweights are as it were multiplied.For example, the left column of Table 5 has a setof  search  seed  terms  distinctive  of  texts  in  theCOCA 'Phil/Rel'  subcorpus  (LC:  B).5  The  rightcolumn  gives a set of search seeds selected fromthe first 100-300 most frequent words in the corpusmade with the initial set of seeds.
(Very frequentterms were checked as possible bigram membersand the bigram used instead in the actual downloadof the second corpus.
)4Oakey's model study is based on data from the BNC.
Some ofhis discipline-distinctive patterns scarcely occur in the muchlarger COCA (e. g, it is found/concluded that).5It actually includes Philosophy, Religion, and Psychology.3 Webcorpora 20word40 20bun40 bigrams4CURRENT URL 636 464 556tokens 3.4M 2.8M 2.23Mtokens/url 5346 6034 4011.org/ 182 245 127.edu/ 174 36 163.com/ 197 113 176.gov/ 27 32 46.net/ 35 13 18.ca/ 19 4 15.de/ 19 13 11.ac.uk/ 6 3 7.ca/ 23 5 1829Initial set of seeds Second, derived set of seedsthis interpretation phenomenal consciousnessincomprehensible methodologydialectic scientific theoriessituational  reductionisthermeneutics incoherentintelligible in this sensematerialism in principlemeans thatTable 5: First and Second Seed Sets for Phil/RelThe two resulting lists of  URLs overlapped onlyslightly.
By using each corpus as reference for akeyword search of the other,  the terms most dis-tinctive of each (vis-a-vis the other) were extract-ed.
These terms fall  into fairly distinct  clusters:The first  corpus leans toward hermeneutics/inter-pretation  and  toward  marxism (via  dialectic andmaterialism)?in  short,  a  course  in  Continentalphilosophy  (sample  key  words:  historical  con-sciousness,  Marx,  Gadamer,  bourgeois,  classstruggle,  Scripture,  exegesis).
The  second  hasDennett and  falsifiable  as keys and leans towardAnglo-American  philosophy  of  science  and  ofmind  (other  key  words:  qualia,  representationalcontents, mental states, argument for/against, sen-sory experience, physicalism).
Here we begin totap into key terms and themes of various schools ofthought within and overlapping disciplines.It is possible to determine which of the seed tupletsbrought  in  the key phrases;  i.  e.,  the  strength ofparticular seeds as attractors of other terms.
It canalso be determined when a particular web page iscausing a term to spike, which happens fairly oftenin academic writing, since it favors frequent repeti-tion of the key concepts of the article.These  clusters  reflect  dependencies  (or  co-loca-tions) within texts rather than within local 'frames'of contiguous words?which is to say registers ofthe particular disciplines/subdisciplines.
Proceed-ing  in  this  way,  specific  lists  of  terms  and  alsoturns of phrase for these disciplines can be extract-ed.
This phase of the project is nearing completion.The power of BootCaT tuplet search to collect cor-pora rich in the features of academic registers is re-markable, and its potential uses are many.ReferencesM.
Baroni and S. Bernardini.
2004.
BootCaT:  Boot-strapping corpora and terms from the web.
Proceed-ings of LREC 2004.D.
Biber, S. Johansson, G. Leech, S. Conrad,  and E.Finegan.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and WrittenEnglish.
Longman, 1999.A.
Coxhead.
2000.
A  New  Academic  Word  List.TESOL Quarterly, 34(2): 213-238.______,  n.d.  On-line  AWL lists.
http://www.victori-a.ac.nz/lals/resources/academicwordlist/sublists.aspxM.
Davies.
n.d.  Corpus of Contemporary AmericanEnglish (COCA) www.americancorpus.org.D.
YW.
Lee.
2001.
Genres, Registers, Text Types, Domains, and Styles: Clarifying the Concepts and Navigating a Path Through the BNC Jungle.
LanguageLearning & Technology 5(3): 37-72.D.
Oakey.
2004.
Formulaic Language in English Aca-demic Writing.
in R. Reppen, S. M. Fitzmaurice, andDouglas Biber, eds.
Using Corpora to Explore Lin-guistic Variation.
John Benjamins.
2004.3031
