Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Louhi Workshop on Text and Data Mining of Health Documents, pages 68?71,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsLinking SweFN++ with Medical Resources,towards a MedFrameNet for SwedishDimitrios Kokkinakis Maria Toporowska GronostajDepartment of Swedish Language, Spr?kbanken Department of Swedish Language, Spr?kbankenUniversity of Gothenburg University of GothenburgSE-405 30, Gothenburg, Sweden SE-405 30, Gothenburg, Swedendimitrios.kokkinakis@svenska.gu.se maria.gronostaj@svenska.gu.seAbstractIn this pilot study we define and apply a methodol-ogy for building an event extraction system for theSwedish scientific medical and clinical language.Our aim is to find and describe linguistic expres-sions which refer to medical events, such as eventsrelated to diseases, symptoms and drug effects.
Inorder to achieve this goal we have initiated actionsthat aim to extend and refine parts of the ongoingcompilation of the Swedish FrameNet++ (SFN++).SFN++, as its English original predecessor, isgrounded in Frame Semantics which provides asound theoretical ground for modeling and linkinglinguistic structures encountered in general lan-guage and in specific domains (after specializa-tion).
Using such resource we have started tomanually annotate domain texts for enrichingSFN++ with authentic samples and for providingtraining data for automated event extraction tech-niques.1 IntroductionIn the clinical setting vast amounts of health-related data are constantly collected, while medicaland biomedical scientific publications, in e.g.
mo-lecular biology, genetics, proteomics and othertypes of -omics, increase in a dramatic manner.These data are undoubtfully a valuable source ofevidence-based research.
However, to empowerresearchers to make highly efficient use of the re-sulting volume of literature and the knowledge thatis encoded therein, the material must be better in-tegrated and linked via effective automated proc-essing.
Tools have to be developed for theautomatic processing of the textual content in adeeper, more semantically-oriented fashion havingaccess to multilayered lexical and grammaticalinformation.
The goal is then to enable rapid, ef-fective and as far as possible accurate extraction ofrelationships, facts and events asserted and de-scribed in the data.
Event extraction is understoodhere as an activity, that broadly follows theBioNLP 2009 shared task view (Kim et al, 2009),in which an event is considered to be an involve-ment of multiple entities in varying roles.
The taskis fundamental to the objective of Language Tech-nology systems, such as Question-Answering andInformation Extraction (IE), which have as theirhigher-level goal to identify instances of a particu-lar class of events (or relationships) in a text and toextract their relevant arguments.
We argue thatsuch information has a direct correlation with Fra-meNet?s semantic frames, since templates in thecontext of IE are frame-like structures with slotsrepresenting the event basic information.
Our in-tention is to explore the applicability of SFN++ tothe clinical and scientific medical domain in Swed-ish.
Therefore, relevant domain specific entities areexplicitly annotated by automatic indexing of thetexts by the Swedish and English Medical SubjectHeadings thesauri (MeSH); cf.
Kokkinakis (2009).Non-medical entities such as temporal expressions,locative expressions and personal characteristicssuch as gender and age are provided by an ex-tended named entity recognition process (Kokki-nakis, 2004).
The partial syntactic analysis thatfollows is aware of the preprocessing steps anduses the background knowledge as features en-coded in XML using the TIGER-XML format(Brants & Hansen, 2002).2 BackgroundMethods employed in the extraction of events havegenerally involved two approaches.
The first oneisbased on manual annotation of events in domain-specific text samples in order to create training68resources for processes that may learn to recognizeevents in new texts (Kim et al, 2008).
The secondis based on methods in which events are automati-cally acquired from unannotated texts; Nobata &Sekine (1999), in the sense that no manually pre-encoded training resources are used for producingthe extraction patterns.
Both methodologies haveproduced rapid advances in the robustness and ap-plicability of IE.
We believe that Frame Semantics(Fillmore, 1976) is a suitable resource, for the firsttype of method, and in our work we started to ex-plore means for specializing and refining parts ofthe ongoing development of the SFN++ (Borin etal., 2009), on the medical domain.
Our goal is toenrich domain corpora with layers of syntactic andsemantic information providing relevant supportfor IE and text mining research in the field.2.1 FrameNetFrameNet <http://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu> is basedon the principles of Frame Semantics supported bycorpus evidence.
A semantic frame is a script-likestructure of concepts, which are linked to themeanings of linguistic units and associated with aspecific event or state.
Each frame identifies a setof frame elements, which are frame specific se-mantic roles (e.g.
participants or arguments).
FNdocuments the range of semantic and syntacticcombinatory possibilities of frame evoking lexicalunits, phrases and clauses.
FN facilitates modelingthe mapping of form and meaning within thesestructures in the medical discourse through manualannotation of example sentences and automaticsummarization of the resulting annotations.
Aword can evoke a frame, and its syntactic depend-ents can fill the frame element slots (Dolbey et al,2006).
Moreover, since a single frame element canhave different grammatical realizations it can en-hance the investigation of combinatorial possibili-ties more precisely than other standard lexicalresources such as WordNet (cf.
Dolbey, 2009).2.2 FrameNet and Information ExtractionIE is a technology that has a direct correlation withframe-like structures; since templates in the con-text of IE are frame-like structures with slots repre-senting the event information.
IE operates onspecific domains, and the objective of IE systemsis to identify instances of a particular class ofevents or relationships in a text and to extract therelevant arguments of the event or relationship.
Ithas been stated Kilgarriff (1997) that the task re-quires the key terms of that domain, the ?fore-ground lexicon?, to be tightly bound to the domainvocabularies (e.g.
ontology) and having well-articulated meaning representations.
According tothis philosophy the foreground lexicon for a do-main will generally contain:?
the key predicates for the domain (triggerwords);?
the sets of lexical items which realize thepredicate (lexical units);?
how they and their arguments relate to theIE system?s output formalism (core ele-ments and valencies);?
how their complements relate to the predi-cate?s arguments (non-core elements).3 MethodologyA subset of the original English FN already con-tains relevant frames with direct applicability tothe medical domain, such as: Medical conditions,Experience bodily harm and Cure (see the Appen-dix for the SFN++ Cure frame; a snapshot from:<http://spraakbanken.gu.se/swefn/>); in the figure?saldo?
is the name of a freely available modernSwedish semantic and morphological resource in-tended for language technology applications; cf.Borin & Forsberg, 2009).
We keep the Englishlabels for each frame, while the content is manu-ally adapted to Swedish.
We start by identifyingwords or phrases that evoke frames and assigningthe correct frame to them interactively using theSALTO tool (Burchardt et al, 2006).
For each in-stance of a frame that has been found, we label theparts of the sentence that fill their semantic roles.Sentences that fulfill these criteria are selectedfrom a large corpus after preprocessed by a numberof pipelined tools including: multiword and idiomexpression identification, part-of-speech tagging,lemmatization, named entity and terminology rec-ognition, shallow parsing, using a cascaded parser(Abney, 1996) and XML formatting according tothe TIGER-XML.
A simplified example (i.e.
Thedoctor treated her with cortisone) would at the endof the processing be labeled as:694 Conclusions and Further ResearchOur work is a first attempt to get a whole picture ofthe requirements and difficulties for specializingSweFN++ to a domain and gaining experience onapplying it to a sublanguage.
Our goal for the nearfuture is to aid the development of a fully auto-mated event extraction system for the Swedishmedical domain.
This can be accomplished by an-notating various types of data, in the medical sub-language, and classifying text segments to the classtype of the event mentioned.
Then, by applyingother means (e.g.
pattern matching rules) we canextract the participants of the events and match toe.g.
information extraction templates, dependingon different applications and needs.
Of course,there are several other issues that need to beworked on, such as devising ways to recognizenegated and/or speculative language usage.
Map-ping medical frame elements onto correspondingconcepts in a thesaurus-based lexicon turns a rela-tively little lexical resource into a more robust oneand hence more useful for semi-automatic seman-tic annotation of corpora; cf.
Baker et al, 2007.For annotating the Swedish corpus, we have usedour intern thematically sorted lexicons with medi-cal vocabulary and the Swedish data from MeSH.Core FEs in FN MESH thesaurus nodesAilment, Affliction DiseaseBody_parts AnatomyMedication Chemicals and DrugsTreatment Analytical, Diagnosticand Therapeutic Tech-niques and EquipmentPatient PersonTable 1.
Example of mapping of core frame elementsonto MeSH top nodesThe advantage of the pre-processing stage is veryimportant and we believe that there is a feasibleway to proceed in order to aid the annotation oflarge textual samples.
Preliminary quantitativeanalysis of the examined instances has shown thatmany linguistically optional scheme elements needto be re-ranked whenever viewed from a medicalpragmatic perspective.
For example Time, Measureand Method provide relevant data for diagnosingpatients?
health condition.
Another fact that mightneed special attention is the issue of tagging pro-nouns.
It seems that these should not be taggedbefore anaphoric relations and their functionalroles have been established.
This is particularlyimportant for distinguishing between patients andhealth care providers.
Use of frame-semantic re-sources in general for language technology is evi-dent.
However, the effect of adding frame-semantic information to LT applications has beenrather low, our work intends to change this situa-tion in the near future, getting insights into thedeeper semantics of the domain events.ReferencesAbney S. 1996.
Partial Parsing via Finite-StateCascades.
J. Nat.
Lang.
Eng., 2(4): 337-344.Baker C., Ellsworth M. and Erk.
K. 2007.
SemEval'07task 19: frame semantic structure extraction.
Pro-ceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Se-mantic Evaluations.
Prague, Czech RepublicBorin L. and Forsberg M. 2009.
All in the family: Acomparison of SALDO and WordNet.
NodalidaWorkshop: WordNets and other Lexical SemanticResources - between Lexical Semantics, Lexicogra-phy, Terminology and Formal Ontologies.
Odense.Borin L., Dann?lls D., Forsberg M., ToporowskaGronostaj M. and Kokkinakis D. 2009.
ThinkingGreen: Toward Swedish FrameNet++.
FN Master-class & Workshop.
Milan, Italy.Brants S. and Hansen S. 2002.
Developments in theTIGER Annotation Scheme and their Realization inthe Corpus.
3rd Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC).
Pp.
1643-1649 Las Palmas.Burchardt A., Erk K., Frank A., Kowalski A. and PadoS.
2006.
SALTO ?
A Versatile Multi-Level Annota-tion Tool.
5th Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC).
Genoa.Dolbey A., Ellsworth M. and Scheffczyk J.
2006.BioFrameNet: A Domain-specific FrameNet Exten-sion with Links to Biomedical Ontologies.
KR-MED:Bio.
Ontology in Action.
Maryland, USA.Dolbey A.
2009.
BioFrameNet, a FrameNet Extensionto the Domain of Molecular Biology.
FRAMES ANDCONSTRUCTIONS.
A conference in honor ofCharles J. Fillmore.
U of California, Berkeley.Fillmore C. J.
1976.
Frame semantics and the nature oflanguage.
NY Academy of Sciences: Conference onthe Origin and Development of Lang.
& Speech, Vol.280: 20-32.Kilgarriff A.
1997.
Foreground and Background Lexi-cons and Word Sense Disambiguation for Informa-tion Extraction.
Proceedings of the Lexicon DrivenInformation Extraction.
Frascati, Italy.70Kim J-D., Ohta T., Pyysalo S., Kano Y. and Tsujii J.2009.
Overview of BioNLP?09 Shared Task on EventExtraction.
NAACL-HLT BioNLP-workshop.
Boul-der, Colorado.Kim J-D., Ohta T. and Tsujii J.
2008.
Corpus Annota-tion for Mining Biomedical Events from Literature.BMC Bioinformatics, 8;9:10.AppendixKokkinakis D. (2004).
Reducing the Effect of NameExplosion.
Beyond Named Entity Recognition, Se-mantic labelling for NLP tasks.
Workshop at the 4thLREC.
Lissabon, Portugal.Kokkinakis D. (2009).
Lexical granularity for automaticindexing and means to achieve it ?
the case of Swed-ish MeSH?.
Information Retrieval in Biomedicine:NLP for Knowledge Integration.
Prince V. & RocheM.
(eds).
pp.
11-37.
IGI Global.71
