Proceedings of SSST-4, Fourth Workshop on Syntax and Structure in Statistical Translation, pages 75?82,COLING 2010, Beijing, August 2010.Improved Language Modeling for English-Persian Statistical MachineTranslationAbstractAs interaction between speakers of differentlanguages continues to increase, the ever-present problem of language barriers must beovercome.
For the same reason, automaticlanguage translation (Machine Translation) hasbecome an attractive area of research anddevelopment.
Statistical Machine Translation(SMT) has been used for translation betweenmany language pairs, the results of which haveshown considerable success.
The focus of thisresearch is on the English/Persian language pair.This paper investigates the development andevaluation of the performance of a statisticalmachine translation system by building abaseline system using subtitles from Persianfilms.
We present an overview of previousrelated work in English/Persian machinetranslation, and examine the available corporafor this language pair.
We finally show theresults of the experiments of our system usingan in-house corpus and compare the results weobtained when building a language model withdifferent sized monolingual corpora.
Differentautomatic evaluation metrics like BLEU, NISTand IBM-BLEU were used to evaluate theperformance of the system on half of the corpusbuilt.
Finally, we look at future work byoutlining ways of getting highly accuratetranslations as fast as possible.1    IntroductionOver the 20th century, international interaction,travel and business relationships have increasedenormously.
With the entrance of the WorldWide Web effectively connecting countriestogether over a giant network, this interactionreached a new peak.
In the area of business andcommerce, the vast majority of companiessimply would not work without this globalconnection.
However, with this vast globalbenefit comes a global problem: the languagebarrier.
As the international connection barrierscontinually break down, the language barrierbecomes a greater issue.
The English languageis now the world?s lingua franca, and non-English speaking people are faced with theproblem of communication, and limited accessto resources in English.Machine translation is the process of usingcomputers for translation from one humanlanguage to another(Lopez, 2008).
This is not arecent area of research and development.
In fact,machine translation was one of the firstapplications of natural language processing,with research work dating back to the1950s(Cancedda, Dymetman, Foster, & Goutte,2009).
However, due to the complexity anddiversity of human language, automatedtranslation is one of the hardest problems incomputer science, and significantly successfulresults are uncommon.There are a number of different approaches tomachine translation.
Statistical MachineTranslation (SMT) however, seems to be thepreferred approach of many industrial andacademic research laboratories (Schmidt, 2007).The advantages of SMT compared to rule-basedapproaches lie in their adaptability to differentdomains and languages: once a functionalMahsa MohagheghMassey University,School of Engineering andAdvanced Technologym.mohaghegh@massey.ac.nz hsarrafzadeh@unitec.ac.nz T.J.Moir@massey.ac.nzAbdolhossein SarrafzadehUnitec,Department of computingTom MoirMassey University,School of Engineering andAdvanced Technology75system exists, all that has to be done in order tomake it work with other language pairs or textdomains is to train it on new data.Research work on statistical machinetranslation systems began in the early 1990s.These systems, which are based on phrase-basedapproaches, operate using parallel corpora ?huge databases of corresponding sentences intwo languages, and employ statistics andprobability to learn by example whichtranslation of a word or phrase is most likelycorrect.
The translation moves directly fromsource language to target language with nointermediate transfer step.
In recent years, suchphrase-based MT approaches have becomepopular because they generally show bettertranslation results.
One major factor for thisdevelopment is the growing availability of largemonolingual and bilingual text corpora in recentyears for a number of languages.The focus of this paper is on statisticalmachine translation for the English/Persianlanguage pair.
The statistical approach has onlybeen employed in several experimentaltranslation attempts for this language pair, andis still largely undeveloped.
This project isconsidered to be a challenge for several reasons.Firstly, the Persian language structure is verydifferent in comparison to English; secondly,there has been little previous work done for thislanguage pair; and thirdly, effective SMTsystems rely on very large bilingual corpora,however these are not readily available for theEnglish/Persian language pair.1.1 The Persian LanguageThe Persian language, or Farsi as it is alsoknown as, belongs to the Indo-Europeanlanguage family and is one of the moredominant languages in parts of the Middle East.It is in fact the most widely spoken language inthe Iranian branch of the Indo-Iranianlanguages, being the official language of Iran(Persia) and also spoken in several countriesincluding Iran, Tajikistan and Afghanistan.There also exist large groups and communitiesin Iraq, United Arab Emirates, People'sDemocratic Republic of Yemen, Bahrain, andOman, not to mention communities in the USA.Persian uses a script that is written fromright to left.
It has similarities with Arabic buthas an extended alphabet and different wordsand/or pronunciations from Arabic.During its long history, the language hasbeen influenced by other languages such asArabic, Turkish and even European languagessuch as English and French.
Today?s Persiancontains many words from these languages andin some cases words from other languages stillfollow the grammar of their original languageparticularly in building plural, singular ordifferent verb forms.
Because of the special anddifferent nature of the Persian languagecompared to other languages like English, thedesign of SMT systems for Persian requiresspecial considerations.1.2 Related WorkSeveral MT systems have already beenconstructed for the English/Persian languagepair.One such system is the Shiraz project, (Amtrup,Laboratory, & University, 2000).
The ShirazMT system is an MT prototype that translatestext one way from Persian to English.
Theproject began in 1997 and the final version wasdelivered in 1999.The Shiraz corpus is a 10 MB manually-constructed bilingually tagged Persian toEnglish dictionary of about 50,000 words,developed using on-line material for testingpurposes in a project at New Mexico StateUniversity.
The system also comprises its ownsyntactic parser and morphological analyzer,and is focused on news stories materialtranslation as its domain.Another English/Persian system was developedby (Saedi, Motazadi, & Shamsfard, 2009).
Thissystem, called PEnTrans, is a bidirectional texttranslator, comprising two main modules(PEnT1, and PEnT2) which translate in oppositedirections (PEnT1 from English to Persian;PEnT2 from Persian to English).
PEnT1employs a combination of both corpus basedand extended dictionary approaches, and PEnT2uses a combination of rule, knowledge andcorpus based approaches.
PEnTrans introduceda new WSD method with a hybrid measurewhich evaluates different word senses in a76sentence and scores them according to theircondition in the sentence, together with theplacement of other words in that sentence.ParsTranslator is a machine translationsystem built to translate English to Persian text.It was first released for public use in mid-1997,the latest update being PTran version in April2004.
The ParsTran input uses English texttyped or from a file.
The latest version is able tooperate for over 1.5 million words andterminologies in English.
It covers 33 fields ofsciences, and is a growing translation service,with word banks being continually reviewedand updated, available at:http://www.ParsTranslator.Net/eng/index.htm.Another English to Persian MT system is therule-based system developed by (Faili &Ghassem-Sani, 2005)This system was based ontree adjoining grammar (TAG), and laterimproved by implementing trained decisiontrees as a word sense disambiguation module.Mohaghegh et al (2009) presented the firstsuch attempt to construct a parallel corpus fromBBC news stories.
This corpus is intended to bean open corpus in which more text may beadded as they are collected.
This corpus wasused to construct a prototype for the firststatistical machine translation system.
Theproblems encountered, especially with theprocess of alignment are discussed in thisresearch (Mohaghegh & Sarrafzadeh, 2009).Most of these systems have largely used arule based approach, and their BLEU scores ona standard data set have not been published.Nowadays however, most large companiesemploy the statistical translation approach,using exceedingly large amounts of bilingualdata (aligned sentences in two languages).
Agood example of this is perhaps the most well-known Persian/English MT system: GoogleTranslate recently released option for thislanguage pair.
Google?s MT system is based onthe statistical approach, and was made availableonline as a BETA version in June 2009.The Transonics Spoken Dialogue Translatoris also partially a statistically based machinetranslation system.
The complete system itselfoperates using a speech to text converter,statistical language translation, and subsequenttext to speech conversion.
The actual translationunit operates in two modes: in-domain and out-of-domain.
A classifier attempts to assign aconcept to an utterance.
If the object to betranslated is within the translation domain, thesystem is capable of significantly accuratetranslations.
Where the object is outside thetranslation domain, the SMT method is used.Transonics is a translation system for a specificdomain (medical: doctor-to-patient interviews),and only deals with question/answer situations(Ettelaie, et al, 2005).Another speech-to-speech English/Persianmachine translation system is suggested byXiang et al They present an unsupervisedtraining technique to alleviate the problem ofthe lack of bilingual training data by takingadvantage of available source languagedata(Xiang, Deng, & Gao, 2008).However, there was no large parallel textcorpus available at the time of development forboth of these systems.
For its specific domain,the Transonics translation system relied on adictionary approach for translation, using aspeech corpus, rather than a parallel text corpus.Their Statistical Translation approach wasmerely used as a backup system.2   Corpus Development for PersianA corpus is defined as a large compilation ofwritten text or audible speech transcript.Corpora, both monolingual and bilingual, havebeen used in various applications incomputational linguistics and machinetranslation.A parallel corpus is effectively two corporain two different languages comprising sentencesand phrases accurately translated and alignedtogether phrase to phrase.
When used inmachine translation systems, parallel corporamust be of a very large size ?
billions ofsentences ?
to be effective.
It is for this reasonthat the Persian language poses some difficulty.There is an acute shortage of digitally storedlinguistic material, and few parallel onlinedocuments, making the construction of aparallel Persian corpus is extremely difficult.There are a few parallel Persian corpora thatdo exist.
These vary in size, and in the domainsthey cover.
One such corpus is FLDB1, which isa linguistic corpus consisting of approximately3 million words in ASCII format.
This corpus77was developed and released by (Assi, 1997) atthe Institute for Humanities and CulturalStudies.
This corpus version was updated in2005, in 1256 character code page, and namedPLDB2.
This new updated version containsmore than 56 million words, and wasconstructed with contemporary literary books,articles, magazines, newspapers, laws andregulations, transcriptions of news, reports, andtelephone speeches for lexicography purposes.Several corpora construction efforts havebeen made based on online Hamshahrinewspaper archives.
These include Ghayoomi(2004), with 6 months of Hamshahri archives toyield a corpus of 6.5 million words, and(Darrudi, Hejazi, & Oroumchian, 2004), with 4years?
worth of archives to yield a 37 million-word corpus.The ?Peykareh?
or ?Text Corpus?
is a corpusof 38 million words developed by Bijankhan etal.
available at:http://ece.ut.ac.ir/dbrg/bijankhan/  andcomprises newspapers, books, magazinesarticles, technical books, together withtranscription of dialogs, monologues, andspeeches for language modeling purposes.Shiraz corpus (Amtrup, et al, 2000)is abilingual tagged corpus of about 3000 alignedPersian/English sentences also collected fromthe Hamshahri newspaper online archive andmanually translated at New Mexico StateUniversity.Another corpus, TEP (Tehran English-Persian corpus), available at:http://ece.ut.ac.ir/NLP/ resources.htm , consistsof 21,000 subtitle files obtained fromwww.opensubtitles.org.
Subtitle pairs ofmultiple versions of same movie were extracted,a total of about 1,200(Itamar & Itai, 2008) thenaligned the files using their proposed dynamicprogramming method.
This method operates byusing the timing information contained insubtitle files so as to align the text accurately.The end product yielded a parallel corpus ofapproximately 150,000 sentences which has4,100,000 tokens in Persian and 4,400,000tokens in English.Finally, European Language ResourcesAssociation (ELRA), available at:http://catalog.elra.info/product_info.php?products_id=1111, have constructed a corpus whichconsists of about 3,500,000 English and Persianwords aligned at sentence level, to giveapproximately 100,000 sentences distributedover 50,021 entries.
The corpus was originallyconstructed with SQL Server, but presented inaccess type file.
The format for the files isUnicode.
This corpus consists of severaldifferent domains, including art, culture, idioms,law, literature, medicine, poetry, politics,proverbs, religion, and science; it is availablefor sale online.3   Statistical Machine Translation3.1   GeneralStatistical machine translation (SMT) can bedefined as the process of maximizing theprobability of a sentence s in the sourcelanguage matching a sentence t in the targetlanguage.
In other words, ?given a sentence s inthe source language, we seek the sentence t inthe target language such that it maximizes P(t |s) which is called the conditional probability orthe chance of t happening given s'' (Koehn, et al,2007).It is also referred to as the most likelytranslation.
This can be more formally writtenas shown in equation (1).arg max P(t | s)        (1)Using Bayes Rule from equation (2), we canwrite equation (1) for the most likely translationas shown in equation (3).P (t | s) = P (t) * P(s | t) =P (s)(2)arg max P(t | s) = arg max P(t) * P(s | t)(3)Where (t) is the target sentence, and (s) is thesource sentence.
P (t) is the target languagemodel and P(s | t) is the translation model.
Theargmax operation is the search, which is doneby a so-called decoder which is a part of astatistical machine translation system.3.2   Statistical Machine Translation ToolsThere are a number of implementations ofsubtasks and algorithms in SMT and evensoftware tools that can be used to set up a fully-featured state-of-the-art SMT system.78Moses (Koehn, et al, 2007) is an open-sourcestatistical machine translation system whichallows one to train translation models usingGIZA++ (Och & Ney, 2004).for any givenlanguage pair for which a parallel corpus exists.This tool was used to build the baseline systemdiscussed in this paper.
MOSES uses a beamsearch algorithm where the translated outputsentence is generated left to right in form ofhypotheses.
Beam-search is an efficient searchalgorithm which quickly finds the highestprobability translation among the exponentialnumber of choices.The search begins with an initial state whereno foreign input words are translated and noEnglish output words have been generated.
Newstates are created by extending the Englishoutput with a phrasal translation of that coverssome of the foreign input words not yettranslated.The algorithm can be used for exhaustivelysearching through all possible translations whendata gets very large.
The search can beoptimized by discarding hypotheses that cannotbe part of the path to the best translation.Furthermore, by comparing states, one candefine a beam of good hypotheses and prune outhypotheses that fall out of this beam (Dean &Ghemawat, 2008).3.3   Building a Baseline SMT SystemTo build a good baseline system it is importantto build a sentence aligned parallel corpuswhich is spell-checked and grammaticallycorrect for both the source and target language.The alignment of words or phrases turns out tobe the most difficult problem SMT faces.Words and phrases in the source and targetlanguages normally differ in where they areplaced in a sentence.
Words that appear on onelanguage side may be dropped on the other.
OneEnglish word may have as its counterpart alonger Persian phrase and vice versa.
Theaccuracy of SMT relies heavily on the existenceof large amounts of data which is commonlyreferred to as a parallel corpus.
The first steptaken was to develop the parallel corpus.
Thiscorpus is intended to be an open corpus inwhich more text can be added as they arecollected.
Sentences were aligned usingMicrosoft?s bi-lingual sentence alignerdeveloped by (Moore, 2002).The next step we plan to take involves theconstruction of a statistical prototype based onthe largest available English/Persian parallelcorpus extracted from the domain of moviesubtitles.
This domain was chosen because themaximum number of words that can bedisplayed as a subtitle on the screen is between10- 12 which means both training and decodingwill be a lot faster.
Building a parallel corpusfor any domain is generally the most timeconsuming process as it depends on theavailability of parallel text.
But the domain ofsubtitling makes it easier to get the sourcelanguage in the form of scripts and the targetlanguage in the form of subtitles in manydifferent languages.Figure1.
A typical SMT SystemA language model (LM) is usually trainedon large amounts of monolingual data in thetarget language to ensure the fluency of thelanguage that the sentence is getting translatedinto.
Language modeling is not only used inmachine translation but also used in manynatural language processing applications such asspeech recognition, part-of-speech tagging,parsing and information retrieval.
A statisticallanguage model assigns probabilities to asequence of words and tries to capture theproperties of a language.The Language Model (LM) for this studywas trained on the BBC Persian News corpusand also an in-house corpus from differentgenres.
The SRILM toolkit developed was used79to train a 5-gram LM for experimentation as in(Stolcke, 2002).4   Experiments and Results4.1   Experiment setupWe used Moses a  phrase-based SMTdevelopment tool for constructing our machinetranslation system.
This included  n-gramlanguage models trained with the SRI languagemodeling tool, GIZA++ alignment tool, Mosesdecoder and the script to induce phrase-basedtranslation models from word-based ones.4.2   Performance evaluation metricsA lot of research has been done in the field ofautomatic machine translation evaluation.Human evaluations of machine translation areextensive but expensive.
Human evaluations cantake months to finish and involve human laborthat cannot be reused which is the main ideabehind the method of automatic machinetranslation evaluation that is quick, inexpensive,and language independent.One of the most popular metrics is calledBLEU (BiLingual Evaluation Understudy)developed at IBM.
The closer a MT is to aprofessional human translation, the better it is.This is the central idea behind the BLEU metric.NIST is another automatic evaluation metricwith the following primary differencescompared to BLEU such as Text pre-processing,gentler length penalty, information-weighted N-gram counts and selective use of N-grams (Li,Callison-Burch, Khudanpur, & Thornton,2009); (Li, Callison-Burch, Khudanpur, &Thornton, 2009).4.3     Discussion and analysis of the resultsIn this study, Moses was used to establish abaseline system.
This system was trained andtested on three in-house corpora, the first 817sentences, the second 1011 sentences, and thethird 2343 sentences.
The data available wassplit into a training and test set.
Microsoft?sbilingual sentence aligner (Moore, 2002) wasused to align the corpus and training sets.Aligning was also performed manually to aid inthe improvement of the results.
As the corpussize increased, we performed variousexperiments such as increasing the languagemodel in each instance.Table  1.
Size of test set and train set (languageModel) En: English, FA: FarsiEvaluation results from these experiments arepresented in Tables 2, 3 and 4.
As expected,BLEU scores improved as the size of the corpusincreased.
The BLEU scores themselves weresignificantly low; however this was expecteddue to the small size of the corpus.
We plan toupdate and increase the corpus size in the nearfuture, which will undoubtedly yield moresatisfactory results.Table 2.
Result obtained using Language Modelsize=864Table 3.
Result obtained using Language Modelsize=1066Table 4.
Result obtained using Language Modelsize=7005Test No.
EN/FA 1 EN/FA 2 EN/FA 3Test Sentences 817 1011 2343TrainingSentences864 1066 7005LM=864 BLEU NIST IBM-BLEUCorpus size8170.1061 1.8218 0.0060Corpus size10110.0882 1.5338 0.0050Corpus size23430.0806 1.7364 0.0067LM=1066 BLEU NIST IBM-BLEUCorpus size8170.0920 1.6838 0.0060Corpus size10110.0986 1.5301 0.0050Corpus size23430.1127 1.6961 0.0069LM= 7005 BLEU NIST IBM-BLEUCorpus size8170.0805 1.6721 0.0063Corpus size10110.0888 1.5512 0.0051Corpus size23430.1148 1.7554 0.007180The first test was performed on a corpus of 817sentences in Persian and the same number fortheir aligned translation in English.
In thisinstance, the training set used was 864sentences.
Results of this translation wereevaluated using three evaluation metrics(BLEU, NIST, and IBM-BLEU) An excerptfrom the output of this first experiment is shownin figure2 (a).The second test comprised of a 1011sentences corpus, with a 1066 sentence trainingset.
As can be seen, the evaluation metric resultsimproved.The same experiment was repeated for athird time, this time with an even larger corpusof 2343 sentences, and a training set of 7005sentences.
The result can be seen in table 4.
Theresults obtained in this test were close to thosein the previous test, apart from a small increasein BLEU scores.
It must be noted that BLEU isonly a tool to compare different MT systems.
Soan increase in BLEU scores may not necessarilymean an increase in the accuracy of translation.The performance of the baseline English-Persian SMT system was evaluated bycomputing BLEU, IBM-BLEU-NIST (Li, et al,2009) scores from different automaticevaluation metrics against  different sizes of thesentence aligned corpus and different sizes ofthe training set .Tables 2, 3 and 4 show the results obtainedusing corpuses of 817, 1011, and 2343sentences respectively.
The language model sizewas varied from 864 to 1066 and finally to 7005sentences.Moreover as shown in table 3, using acorpus and language model of 1011 and 1066 insize respectively produces better results.
Thiscan clearly be noticed from graph in Figure2(b).Finally, increasing the size of the corpus to2343 and language model constructed using7005 sentences produced the best translationresults as shown in both Figure 2(c) and Table4.
This data shows that an increased corpus sizewill yield an improved translation quality, butonly as long as the size of the language model isproportional to the corpus size.
Literature refersto the fact that the size of the corpus, althoughimportant, does not have as great an effect ascorpus and language model in the domain oftranslation (Ma & Way, 2009).
In the Persianlanguage, some problems and difficulties arisedue to natural language ambiguities, anaphoraresolution, idioms and differences in the typesand symbols used for punctuation.
These issueshad to be resolved before any attempt at SMTcould be made.
Needless to stress on the factthat the better the alignment the better theresults of the translation.
(a)(b)(c)Figure 3.
(a) Results obtained using trainingsize=864 (b) Results obtained using trainingsize=1066 (c) Results obtained using trainingsize=700500.20.40.60.811.21.41.61.82BLEU NIST IBM-BLEUTrained on 864 sentences Language ModelCorpus size 817 Corpus size 1011 Corpus Size 234300.20.40.60.811.21.41.61.8BLEU NIST IBM-BLEUTrained on 1066 sentences Language ModelCorpus size 817 Corpus size 1011 Corpus Size 234300.20.40.60.811.21.41.61.82BLEU NIST IBM-BLEUTrained on 7005 sentences Language ModelCorpus size 817 Corpus size 1011 Corpus Size 2343815    Future workDespite the fact that compared to otherlanguage pairs, the available parallel corporafor the English/Persian language pair issignificantly smaller, the future of statisticalmachine translation for this language pairlooks promising.
We have been able toprocure several very large bilingual corpora,which we intend to combine with the opencorpus we used in the original tests.
With theuse of a much larger bilingual corpus, weexpect to produce a significantly higherevaluation metric score.
Our plannedimmediate future work will consist ofcombining these corpora together,addressing the task of corpus alignment, andcontinuing the use of a web crawler to obtainfurther bilingual text.6   ConclusionThis paper presented an overview of some ofthe work in the area of English/Persian MTsystems that has been done to date, and showeda set of experiments in which our SMT systemwas applied to the Persian language using arelatively small corpus.
The first part of thiswork was to test how well our system translatesfrom Persian to English when trained on theavailable corpora and to spot and try and resolveproblems with the process and the outputproduced.
According to the results we obtained,it was concluded that a corpus of much greatersize would be required to produce satisfactoryresults.
Our experience with the corpus ofsmaller size shows us that for a large corpus,there will be a significant amount of workrequired in aligning sentences.ReferencesAmtrup, J., Laboratory, C. R., & University, N. M.S.
(2000).
Persian-English machinetranslation: An overview of the Shirazproject: Computing Research Laboratory,New Mexico State University.Assi, S. (1997).
Farsi linguistic database (FLDB).International Journal of Lexicography,10(3), 5.Cancedda, N., Dymetman, M., Foster, G., & Goutte,C.
(2009).
A Statistical Machine TranslationPrimer.Darrudi, E., Hejazi, M., & Oroumchian, F. (2004).Assessment of a modern farsi corpus.Dean, J., & Ghemawat, S. (2008).
MapReduce:Simplified data processing on large clusters.Communications of the ACM, 51(1), 107-113.Ettelaie, E., Gandhe, S., Georgiou, P., Knight, K.,Marcu, D., Narayanan, S., et al (2005).Transonics: A practical speech-to-speechtranslator for English-Farsi medicaldialogues.Faili, H., & Ghassem-Sani, G. (2005).
UsingDecision Tree Approach For AmbiguityResolution In Machine Translation.Itamar, E., & Itai, A.
(2008).
Using Movie Subtitlesfor Creating a Large-Scale BilingualCorpora.Koehn, P., Hoang, H., Birch, A., Callison-Burch, C.,Federico, M., Bertoldi, N., et al (2007).Moses: Open source toolkit for statisticalmachine translation.Li, Z., Callison-Burch, C., Khudanpur, S., &Thornton, W. (2009).
Decoding in Joshua.The Prague Bulletin of MathematicalLinguistics, 91, 47-56.Lopez, A.
(2008).
Statistical machine translation.Ma, Y., & Way, A.
(2009).
Bilingually MotivatedDomain-Adapted Word Segmentation forStatistical Machine Translation.Mohaghegh, M., & Sarrafzadeh, A.
(2009).
Ananalysis of the effect of training datavariation in English-Persian statisticalmachine translation.Moore, R. (2002).
Fast and accurate sentencealignment of bilingual corpora.
Lecturenotes in computer science, 135-144.Och, F., & Ney, H. (2004).
The alignment templateapproach to statistical machine translation.Computational Linguistics, 30(4), 417-449.Saedi, C., Motazadi, Y., & Shamsfard, M. (2009).Automatic translation between English andPersian texts.Schmidt, A.
(2007).
Statistical Machine TranslationBetween New Language Pairs UsingMultiple Intermediaries.Stolcke, A.
(2002).
SRILM-an extensible languagemodeling toolkit.Xiang, B., Deng, Y., & Gao, Y.
(2008).Unsupervised training for farsi-englishspeech-to-speech translation.82
