Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 132?140,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Event Extraction from Full Texts on Infectious DiseasesSampo Pyysalo?
Tomoko Ohta?
Han-Cheol Cho?
Dan Sullivan?Chunhong Mao?
Bruno Sobral?
Jun?ichi Tsujii???
Sophia Ananiadou??
?Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan?Virginia Bioinformatics Institute, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA?School of Computer Science, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK?National Centre for Text Mining, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK{smp,okap,priancho,tsujii}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp{dsulliva,cmao,sobral}@vbi.vt.eduSophia.Ananiadou@manchester.ac.ukAbstractEvent extraction approaches based on ex-pressive structured representations of ex-tracted information have been a significantfocus of research in recent biomedical nat-ural language processing studies.
How-ever, event extraction efforts have so farbeen limited to publication abstracts, withmost studies further considering only thespecific transcription factor-related subdo-main of molecular biology of the GENIAcorpus.
To establish the broader relevanceof the event extraction approach and pro-posed methods, it is necessary to expandon these constraints.
In this study, we pro-pose an adaptation of the event extractionapproach to a subdomain related to infec-tious diseases and present analysis and ini-tial experiments on the feasibility of eventextraction from domain full text publica-tions.1 IntroductionFor most of the previous decade, biomedical In-formation Extraction (IE) efforts have focused pri-marily on tasks that allow extracted informationto be represented as simple pairs of related enti-ties.
This representation is applicable to many IEtargets of interest, such as gene-disease associa-tions (Chun et al, 2006) and protein-protein inter-actions (Ne?dellec, 2005; Krallinger et al, 2007).However, it has limited applicability to advancedapplications such as semantic search, Gene On-tology term annotation, and pathway extraction,tasks for which and relatively few resources or sys-tems (e.g.
(Rzhetsky et al, 2004)) have been intro-duced.
A number of recent studies have proposedmore expressive representations of extracted in-formation, introducing resources supporting ad-vanced IE approaches (Pyysalo et al, 2007; Kimet al, 2008; Thompson et al, 2009; Ananiadouet al, 2010a).
A significant step in the develop-ment of domain IE methods capable of extract-ing this class of representations was taken in theBioNLP?09 shared task on event extraction, where24 teams participated in an IE task setting requir-ing the extraction of structured representations ofmulti-participant biological events of several types(Kim et al, 2009).While the introduction of structured event ex-traction resources and methods has notably ad-vanced the state of the art in biomedical IE rep-resentations, the focus of event extraction studiescarries other limitations frequently encountered indomain IE efforts.
Specifically, resources anno-tated for biomedical events contain exclusivelytexts from publication abstracts, typically furtherdrawn from small subdomains of molecular biol-ogy.
These choices constrain not only the types oftexts but also the types of events considered, re-stricting the applicability of event extraction.
Thispaper presents results from one ongoing effort toextend an event extraction approach over theseboundaries, toward event extraction from full textdocuments in the domain of infectious diseases.In this study, we consider the subdomain relatedto Type IV secretion systems as a model subdo-main of interest within the broad infectious dis-eases domain.
Type IV secretion systems (T4SS)are mechanisms for transferring DNA and pro-teins across cellular boundaries.
T4SS are foundin a broad range of Bacteria and in some Ar-chaea.
These translocation systems enable genetransfer across cellular membranes thus contribut-ing to the spread of antibiotic resistance and viru-132Figure 1: Event representation example.
Inhibition of binding caused by phosphorylation is representedusing three events.
The shaded text background identifies the text bindings of the events and entities.lence genes making them an especially importantmechanism in infectious disease research (Juhas etal., 2008).
Type IV secretion systems are found inplant pathogens, such as Agrobacterium tumefa-ciens, the cause of crown gall disease as well as inanimal pathogens, such as Helicobacter pylori, acause of severe gastric disease.
The study of T4SShas been hampered by the lack of consistent termi-nology to describe genes and proteins associatedwith the translocation mechanism thus motivatingthe use of natural language processing techniquesto enhance information retrieval and informationextraction from relevant literature.2 Event Extraction for the T4SS DomainThis section presents the application of an eventextraction approach to the T4SS domain.2.1 Event ExtractionWe base our information extraction approach onthe model introduced in the BioNLP?09 sharedtask on event extraction.
Central to this approachis the event representation, which can capturethe association of multiple participants in varyingroles and numbers and treats events as primary ob-jects of annotation, thus allowing events to be par-ticipants in other events.
Further, both entities andevents are text-bound, i.e.
anchored to specific ex-pressions in text (Figure 1).The BioNLP?09 shared task defined nine eventtypes and five argument types (roles): Theme spec-ifies the core participant(s) that an event affects,Cause the cause of the the event, Site a specificdomain or region on a participant involved in theevent, and ToLoc and AtLoc locations associatedwith localization events (Table 1).
Theme andCause arguments may refer to either events orgene/gene product entities, and other argumentsrefer to other physical entities.
The Theme ar-gument is always mandatory, while others can beomitted when a relevant participant is not stated.The event types were originally defined to cap-ture statements of biologically relevant changes inEvent type Args ExampleGene expression T 5-LOX is coexpressedTranscription T IL-4 transcriptionProtein catabolism T IkB-A proteolysisLocalization T,L translocation of STAT6Phosphorylation T,S NF90 was phosphorylatedBinding T+,S+ Nmi interacts with STATRegulation T,C,S IL-4 gene controlPositive regulation T,C,S IL-12 induced bindingNegative regulation T,C,S suppressed dimerizationTable 1: Event types targeted in the BioNLP?09shared task and their arguments, with minimalexamples of each event type.
Arguments ab-breviate for (T)heme, (C)ause, (S)ite and L forToLoc/AtLoc, with ?+?
identifying argumentsthan can occur multiple times.
The expressionmarked as triggering the event shown in italics.the state of entities in a target subdomain involv-ing transcription factors in human blood cells.
Inadapting the approach to new domains, some ex-tension of the event types is expected to be nec-essary.
By contrast, the argument types and thegeneral design of the representation are intendedto be general, and to maintain compatibility withexisting systems we aim to avoid modifying these.2.2 T4SS DomainA corpus of full-text publications relating to theT4SS subdomain of the infectious diseases do-main annotated for biological entities and terms ofinterest to domain experts was recently introducedby (Ananiadou et al, 2010b).
In the present study,we use this corpus as a reference standard defin-ing domain information needs.
In the followingwe briefly describe the corpus annotation and theview it provides of the domain.The T4SS corpus annotation covers four classesof tagged entities and terms: Bacteria, Cellularcomponents, Biological Processes, and Molecularfunctions.
The latter three correspond to the threeGene Ontology (GO) (Ashburner et al, 2000) top-level sub-ontologies, and terms of these types wereannotated with reference to both GO and relevanceto the interests of domain experts, with guidelines133BacteriumA.
tumefaciens 32.7%H.
pylori 20.0%L.
pneumophila 16.3%E.
coli 12.3%B.
pertussis 3.0%Cell componentT4SS 5.2%Ti plasmid 5.1%outer membrane 4.2%membrane 3.5%genome 3.4%Biological processvirulence 14.1%conjugation 7.9%localization 6.1%nuclear import 5.8%transfer 5.1%Molecular functionnucleotide-binding 20.3%ATPase activity 17.3%NTP-binding 14.7%ATP-binding 12.2%DNA-binding 9.1%Table 2: Most frequently tagged terms (after normalization) and their relative frequencies of all taggedentities of each of the four types annotated in the T4SS corpus.Type AnnotationsBacteria 529Cellular component 2237Biological process 1873Molecular function 197Table 3: Statistics for the existing T4SS corpusannotation.requiring that marked terms be both found in GOand associated with T4SS.
These constraints as-sure that the corpus is relevant to the informa-tion needs of biologists working in the domain andthat it can be used as a reference for the study ofautomatic GO annotation.
In the work introduc-ing the corpus, the task of automatic GO anno-tation was studied as facilitating improved infor-mation access, such as advanced search function-ality: GO annotation can allow for search by se-mantic classes or co-occurrences of terms of speci-fied classes.
The event approach considered in thisstudy further extends on these opportunities in in-troducing a model allowing e.g.
search by specificassociations of the concepts of interest.The previously created annotation of the T4SScorpus covers 27 full text publications totaling15143 pseudo-sentences (text sentences plus tablerows, references, etc.)
and 244942 tokens.1 A to-tal of nearly 5000 entities and terms are annotatedin these documents; Table 2 shows the most fre-quently tagged terms of each type after basic nor-malization of different surface forms, and Table 3gives the per-class statistics.
Domain characteris-tics are clearly identifiable in the first three taggedtypes, showing disease-related bacteria, their ma-jor cellular components, and processes related tomovement, reproduction and infection.
The lastterm type is dominated by somewhat more genericbinding-type molecular functions.In addition to the four annotated types it was1While the document count is modest compared to thatof abstract-based corpora, we estimate that in terms of theamount of text (tokens) the corpus corresponds to over 1000abstracts, comparable in size to e.g.
the GENIA event corpus(Kim et al, 2008).recognized during the original T4SS corpus anno-tation that genes and gene products are centrallyimportant for domain information needs, but theirannotation was deferred to focus on novel cate-gories.
As part of the present study, we introduceannotation for gene/gene product (GGP) mentions(Section 3.2), and in the following discussion ofapplying an event extraction approach to the do-main the availability of this class annotation as anadditional category is assumed.2.3 Adaptation of the Event ModelThe event model involves two primary categoriesof representation: physical entities such as genesand proteins are elementary (non-structured) andtheir mentions annotated as typed spans of text,2and events and processes (?things that happen?
)are represented using the structured event repre-sentation described in Section 2.1.
This divisionapplies straightforwardly to the T4SS annotations,suggesting an approach where bacteria and cellcomponents retain their simple tagged-term repre-sentation and the biological processes and molec-ular functions are given an event representation.In the following, we first analyze correspondencesbetween the latter two classes and BioNLP?09shared task events, and then proceed to study theevent arguments and their roles as steps toward acomplete event model for the domain.Molecular functions, the smallest class taggedin the T4SS corpus, are highly uniform: almost75% involve binding, immediately suggesting rep-resentation using the Binding class of events de-fined in the applied event extraction model.
Theremaining functions are ATPase activity, togetherwith its exact GO synonyms (e.g.
ATP hydrolaseactivity) accounting for 19% of the terms, the gen-eral type hydrolysis (4.5%), and a small numberof rare other functions.
While these have no cor-respondence with previously defined event types,2Normalization identifying e.g.
the Uniprot entry corre-sponding to a protein mention may also be necessary, but hereexcluded from consideration an independent issue.134Class Category FreqLocationTransfer 27.6%Localization 15.6%Import/export 14.5%Virulence 14.1%High-level Assembly 8.7%process Conjugation 8.3%Secretion 8.1%(Other) 1.8%Table 4: Categorization of T4SS corpus biologi-cal processes and relative frequency of mentionsof each category of the total tagged.their low overall occurrence counts make them ofsecondary interest as extraction targets.The biological processes are considerably morediverse.
To identify general categories, we per-formed a manual analysis of the 217 unique nor-malized terms annotated in the corpus as biologi-cal processes (Table 4).
We find that the majorityof the instances (58%) relate to location or move-ment.
As related types of statements are anno-tated as Localization events in the applied model,we propose to apply this event type and differen-tiate between the specific subtypes on the basis ofthe event arguments.
A further 39% are of cate-gories that can be viewed as high-level processes.These are distinct from the events considered inthe BioNLP?09 shared task in involving coarser-grained events and larger-scale participants thanthe GGP entities considered in the task: for ex-ample, conjugation occurs between bacteria, andvirulence may involve a human host.To analyze the role types and arguments char-acteristic of domain events, we annotated a smallsample of tagged mentions for the most fre-quent types in the broad classification discussedabove: Binding for Molecular function, Transferfor Location-related, and Virulence for High-levelprocess.
The statistics of the annotated 65 eventsare shown in Tables 5, 6 and 7.
For Binding, wefind that while an estimated 90% of events in-volve a GGP argument, the other participant ofthe binding is in all cases non-GGP, most fre-quently of Nucleotide type (e.g.
NTP/ATP).
Whileonly GGP Binding arguments were considered inthe shared task events, the argument structures aretypical of multi-participant binding and this classof expressions are in scope of the original GE-NIA Event corpus annotation (Kim et al, 2008).Event annotations could thus potentially be de-rived from existing data.
Localization eventarguments show substantially greater variety andFreq Arguments78% Theme: GGP, Theme: Nucleotide5.5% Theme: GGP, Theme: DNA5.5% Theme: GGP, Theme: Sugar5.5% Theme: Protein family, Theme: DNA5.5% Theme: Protein, Theme: NucleotideTable 5: Binding event arguments.Freq Arguments16% Theme: DNA, From/To: Organism16% Theme: DNA16% Theme: Cell component12% Theme: DNA, To: Organism8% Theme: Protein family, From/To: Organism4% Theme: GGP4% Theme: GGP, To: Organism4% Theme: GGP, From: Organism4% Theme: Protein family, From: Organism4% Theme: Protein family4% Theme: Organism, To: Cell component4% Theme: DNA From: Organism, To: Cell component4% (no arguments)Table 6: Localization (Transfer) event arguments.Freq Arguments64% Cause: GGP16% Theme:Organism, Cause: GGP8% Cause: Organism8% (no arguments)4% Cause: Protein familyTable 7: Process (Virulence) arguments.some highly domain-specific argument combina-tions, largely focusing on DNA and Cell compo-nent (e.g.
phagosome) transfer, frequently involv-ing transfer between different organisms.
Whilethe participants are almost exclusively of typesthat do not appear in Localization events in exist-ing annotations, the argument structures are stan-dard and in our judgment reasonably capture theanalyzed statements, supporting the applicabilityof the general approach.
Finally, the argumentanalysis shown in Table 7 supports the previoustentative observation that the high-level biologi-cal processes are notably different from previouslyconsidered event types: for over 80% of these pro-cesses no overtly stated Theme could be identified.We take this to indicate that the themes ?
the coreparticipants that the processes concern ?
are ob-vious in the discourse context and their overt ex-pression would be redundant.
(For example, inthe context virulence obviously involves a host andconjugation involves bacteria.)
By contrast, in thecorpus the entities contributing to these processesare focused: a participant we have here analyzedas Cause is stated in over 90% of cases.
This135Sentences TokensAbstracts 150 3789Full texts 448 13375Total 598 17164Table 8: Statistics for the selected subcorpus.novel pattern of event arguments suggests that theevent model should be augmented to capture thiscategory of high-level biological processes.
Here,we propose an event representation for these pro-cesses that removes the requirement for a Themeand substitutes instead a mandatory Cause as thecore argument.
In the event annotation and exper-iments, we focus on this newly proposed class.3 AnnotationThis section describes the new annotation intro-duced for the T4SS corpus.3.1 Text SelectionThe creation of exhaustive manual annotation forthe full T4SS corpus represents a considerable an-notation effort.
Due to resource limitations, forthis study we did not attempt full-scope annota-tion but instead selected a representative subset ofthe corpus texts.
We aimed to select texts that pro-vide good coverage of the text variety in the T4SScorpus and can be freely redistributed for use in re-search.
We first selected for annotation all corpusdocuments with at least a freely available PubMedabstract, excluding 3 documents.
As the corpusonly included a single freely redistributable OpenAccess paper, we extended full text selection tomanuscripts freely available as XML/HTML (i.e.not only PDF) via PubMed Central.
While thesedocuments cannot be redistributed in full, theirtext can be reliably combined with standoff anno-tations to recreate the annotated corpus.In selected full-text documents, to focus anno-tation efforts on sections most likely to contain re-liable new information accessible to natural lan-guage processing methods, we further selected thepublication body text, excluding figures and tablesand their captions, and removed Methods and Dis-cussion sections.
We then removed artifacts suchas page numbers and running heads and cleanedremaining errors from PDF conversion of the orig-inal documents.
This selection produced a subcor-pus of four full-text documents and 19 abstracts.The statistics for this corpus are shown in Table 8.GGP GGP/sentenceAbstracts 124 0.82Full texts 394 0.88Total 518 0.87Table 9: Statistics for the GGP annotation.3.2 Gene/Gene Product AnnotationAs gene and gene product entities are central todomain information needs and the core entities ofthe applied event extraction approach, we first in-troduced annotation for this entity class.
We cre-ated manual GGP annotation following the an-notation guidelines of the GENIA GGP Corpus(Ohta et al, 2009).
As this corpus was the sourceof the gene/protein entity annotation provided asthe basis of the BioNLP shared task on event ex-traction, adopting its annotation criteria assurescompatibility with recently introduced event ex-traction methods.
Briefly, the guidelines spec-ify tagging for minimal continuous spans of spe-cific gene/gene product names, without differen-tiating between DNA/RNA/protein.
A ?specificname?
is understood to be a a name that allowsa domain expert to identify the entry in a rele-vant database (Entrez gene/Uniprot) that the namerefers to.
Only GGP names are tagged, excludingdescriptive references and the names of related en-tities such as complexes, families and domains.The annotation was created on the basis of aninitial tagging created by augmenting the outputof the BANNER tagger (Leaman and Gonzalez,2008) by dictionary- and regular expression-basedtagging.
This initial high-recall markup was thencorrected by a human annotator.
To confirm thatthe annotator had correctly identified subdomainGGPs and to check against possible error intro-duced through the machine-assisted tagging, weperformed a further verification of the annotationon approx.
50% of the corpus sentences: we com-bined the machine- and human-tagged annotationsas candidates, removed identifying information,and asked two domain experts to identify the cor-rect GGPs.
The two sets of independently pro-duced judgments showed very high agreement:holding one set of judgments as the reference stan-dard, the other would achieve an f-score of 97%under the criteria presented in Section 4.2.
Wenote as one contributing factor to the high agree-ment that the domain has stable and systematicallyapplied GGP naming criteria.
The statistics of thefull GGP annotation are shown in Table 9.136Events Event/sentenceAbstracts 15 0.1Full texts 5 0.01Additional 80 2.2Total 100 0.16Table 10: Statistics for the event annotation.3.3 Event AnnotationMotivated by the analysis described in Section 2.3,we chose to focus on the novel category of asso-ciations of GGP entities in high-level processes.Specifically, we chose to study biological pro-cesses related to virulence, as these are the mostfrequent case in the corpus and prototypical of thedomain.
We adopted the GENIA Event corpus an-notation guidelines (Kim et al, 2008), marking as-sociations between specific GGPs and biologicalprocesses discussed in the text even when theseare stated speculatively or their existence explic-itly denied.
As the analysis indicated this categoryof processes to typically involve a single statedparticipant in a fixed role, annotations were ini-tially recorded as (GGP, process) pairs and laterconverted into an event representation.During annotation, the number of annotatedGGP associations with the targeted class of pro-cesses in the T4SS subcorpus was found to be toolow to provide material for both training and test-ing a supervised learning-based event extractionapproach.
To extend the source data, we searchedPubMed for cases where a known T4SS-relatedprotein co-occurred with an expression known torelate to the targeted process class (e.g.
virulence,virulent, avirulent, non-virulent) and annotated afurther set of sentences from the search results forboth GGPs and their process associations.
As theproperties of these additional examples could notbe assured to correspond to those of the targeteddomain texts, we used these annotations only asdevelopment and training data, performing evalu-ation on cases drawn from the T4SS subcorpus.As the annotation target was novel, we per-formed two independent sets of judgments for allannotated cases, jointly resolving disagreements.Although initial agreement was low, for a final setof judgments we measured high agreement, corre-sponding to 93% f-score when holding one set ofjudgments as the gold standard.
The statistics ofthe annotation are shown in Table 10.
Annotationsare sparse in the T4SS subcorpus and, as expected,very dense in the targeted additional data.4 Experiments4.1 MethodsFor GGP tagging experiments, we applied a state-of-the-art tagger with default settings as referenceand a custom tagger for adaptation experiments.As the reference tagger, we applied a recent re-lease of BANNER (Leaman and Gonzalez, 2008)trained on the GENETAG corpus (Tanabe et al,2005).
The corpus is tagged for gene and protein-related entities and its texts drawn from a broadselection of PubMed abstracts.
The current revi-sion of the tagger3 achieves an f-score of 86.4%on the corpus, competitive with the best result re-ported in the BioCreative II evaluation (Wilbur etal., 2007), 87.2%.
The custom tagger4 follows thedesign of BANNER in both the choice of Con-ditional Random Fields (Lafferty et al, 2001) asthe applied learning method and the basic featuredesign, but as a key extension can further adoptfeatures from external dictionaries as both positiveand negative indicators of tagged entities.
Taggingexperiments were performed using a document-level 50/50 split of the GGP-annotated subcorpus.For event extraction, we applied an adapta-tion of the approach of the top-ranking system inthe BioNLP?09 shared task (Bjo?rne et al, 2009):all sentences in the input text were parsed withthe McClosky-Charniak (2008) parser and the re-sulting phrase structure analyses then convertedinto the Stanford Dependency representation us-ing conversion included in the Stanford NLP tools(de Marneffe et al, 2006).
Trigger recognitionwas performed with a simple regular expression-based tagger covering standard surface form vari-ation.
Edge detection was performed using a su-pervised machine learning approach, applying theLibSVM (Chang and Lin, 2001) Support VectorMachine implementation with a linear kernel andthe feature representation of Bjo?rne et al (2009),building largely around the shortest dependencypath connecting a detected trigger with a candi-date participant.
The SVM regularization parame-ter was selected by a sparse search of the parame-ter space with evaluation using cross-validation onthe training set.
As the class of events targeted forextraction in this study are of a highly restrictedtype, each taking only of a single mandatory Causeargument, the construction of events from detected3http://banner.sourceforge.net4http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/NERsuite/137Precision Recall F-scoreAbstracts 68.1% 89.5% 77.3%Full texts 56.9% 80.7% 66.7%Total 59.4% 82.8% 69.2%Table 11: Initial GGP tagging results.triggers and edges could be implemented as a sim-ple deterministic rule.4.2 Evaluation CriteriaFor evaluating the performance of the taggers weapply a relaxed matching criterion that accepts amatch between an automatically tagged and a goldstandard entity if the two overlap at least in part.This relaxation is adopted to focus on true taggingerrors.
The GENETAG entity span guidelines dif-fer from the GENIA GGP guidelines adopted herein allowing the inclusion of e.g.
head nouns whennames appear in modifier position, while the an-notation guidelines applied here require markingonly the minimal name.5 When applying strictmatching criteria, a substantial number of errorsmay trace back to minor boundary differences(Wang et al, 2009), which we consider of sec-ondary interest to spurious or missing tags.
Over-all results are microaverages, that is, precision, re-call and f-score are calculated from the sum of truepositive etc.
counts over individual documents.For event extraction, we applied the BioNLP?09shared task event extraction criteria (Kim et al,2009) with one key change: to make it possibleto evaluate the extraction of the high-level pro-cess participants, we removed the requirement thatall events must define a Theme as their core argu-ment.4.3 Gene/Gene Product TaggingThe initial GGP tagging results using BANNERare shown in Table 11.
We find that even for therelaxed overlap matching criterion, the f-score isnearly 10% points lower than reported on GENE-TAG in the evaluation on abstracts.
For full texts,performance is lower yet by a further 10% points.In both cases, the primary problem is the poorprecision of the tagger, indicating that many non-GGPs are spuriously tagged.To determine common sources of error, we per-formed a manual analysis of 100 randomly se-lected falsely tagged strings (Table 12).
We find5GENETAG annotations include e.g.
human ets-1 protein,whereas the guidelines applied here would require markingonly ets-1.Category Freq ExamplesGGP family or group 34% VirB, tmRNA genesFigure/table 26% Fig.
1B, Table 1Cell component 10% T4SS, ER vacuoleSpecies/strain 9% E. coli, A348deltaB4.5Misc.
9% step D, Protocol S1GGP domain or region 4% Pfam domain(Other) 8% TrIP, LGTTable 12: Common sources of false positives inGGP tagging.Precision Recall F-scoreAbstracts 90.5% 95.7% 93.1%Full texts 90.0% 93.2% 91.6%Total 90.1% 93.8% 91.9%Table 13: GGP tagging results with domain adap-tation.that the most frequent category consists of casesthat are arguably correct by GENETAG annota-tion criteria, which allow named protein familiesof groups to be tagged.
A similar argument canbe made for domains or regions.
Perhaps not sur-prisingly, a large number of false positives relateto features common in full texts but missing fromthe abstracts on which the tagger was trained, suchas figure and table references.
Finally, systematicerrors are made for entities belonging to other cat-egories such as named cell components or species.To address these issues, we applied a domain-adapted custom tagger that largely replicates thefeatures of BANNER, further integrating infor-mation from the UMLS Metathesaurus,6 whichprovides a large dictionary containing terms cov-ering 135 different semantic classes, and a cus-tom dictionary of 1081 domain GGP names, com-piled by (Ananiadou et al, 2010b).
The non-GGPUMLS Metathesaurus terms provided negative in-dicators for reducing spurious taggings, and thecustom dictionary positive indicators.
Finally, weaugmented the GENETAG training data with 10copies7 of the training half of the T4SS GGP cor-pus as in-domain training data.Table 13 shows the results with the domain-adapted tagger.
We find dramatically improvedperformance for both abstracts and full texts,showing results competitive with the state of theart performance on GENETAG (Wilbur et al,2007).
Thus, while the performance of an un-adapted tagger falls short of both results reported6http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/7As the GENETAG corpus is considerably larger than theT4SS GGP corpus, replication was used to assure that suffi-cient weight is given to the in-domain data in training.138Precision Recall F-scoreCo-occurrence 65% 100% 78%Machine learning 81% 85% 83%Table 14: Event extraction results.on GENETAG and levels necessary for practi-cal application, adaptation addressing commonsources of error through the adoption of generaland custom dictionaries and the use of a smallset of in-domain training data was successful inaddressing these issues.
The performance of theadapted tagger is notably high given the modestsize of the in-domain data, perhaps again reflect-ing the consistent GGP naming conventions of thesubdomain.4.4 Event ExtractionWe performed an event extraction experiment fol-lowing the training and test split described in Sec-tion 3.3.
Table 14 shows the results of the ap-plied machine learning-based method contrastedwith a co-occurrence baseline replacing the edgedetection with a rule that extracts a Cause edge forall trigger-GGP combinations co-occurring withinsentence scope.
This approach achieves 100% re-call as the test data was found to only containevents where the arguments are stated in the samesentence as the trigger.The results show that the machine learning ap-proach achieves very high performance, matchingthe best results reported for any single event typein the BioNLP?09 shared task (Kim et al, 2009).The very high co-occurrence baseline result sug-gests that the high performance largely reflects therelative simplicity of the task.
With respect tothe baseline result, the machine-learning approachachieves a 21% relative reduction in error.While this experiment is limited in both scopeand scale, it suggests that the event extraction ap-proach can be beneficially applied to detect do-main events represented by novel argument struc-tures.
As a demonstration of feasibility the resultis encouraging for both the applicability of eventextraction to this specific new domain and for theadaptability of the approach to new domains ingeneral.5 Discussion and ConclusionsWe have presented a study of the adaptation of anevent extraction approach to the T4SS subdomainas a step toward the introduction of event extrac-tion to the broader infectious diseases domain.
Weapplied a previously introduced corpus of subdo-main full texts annotated for mentions of bacte-ria and terms from the three top-level Gene On-tology subontologies as a reference defining do-main information needs to study how these canbe met through the application of events definedin the BioNLP?09 Shared Task on event extrac-tion.
Analysis indicated that with minor revisionof the arguments, the Binding and Localizationevent types could account for the majority of bothbiological processes and molecular functions ofinterest.
We further identified a category of ?high-level?
biological processes such as the virulenceprocess typical of the subdomain, which necessi-tated extension of the considered event extractionmodel.Based on argument analysis, we proposed a rep-resentation for high-level processes in the eventmodel that substitutes Cause for Theme as thecore argument.
We further produced annotationallowing an experiment on the extraction of thedominant category of virulence processes withgene/gene product (GGP) causes, annotating 518GGP mentions and 100 associations between theseand the processes.
Experiments indicated that withannotated in-domain resources both the GGP enti-ties and their associations with processes could beextracted with high reliability.In future work we will extend the model andannotation proposed in this paper to the broaderinfectious diseases domain, introducing annotatedresources and extraction methods for advanced in-formation access.
All annotated resources intro-duced in this study are available from the GENIAproject homepage.8AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by Grant-in-Aidfor Specially Promoted Research (MEXT, Japan),the National Institutes of Health, grant numberHHSN272200900040C, and the Joint InformationSystems Committee (JISC, UK).ReferencesSophia Ananiadou, Sampo Pyysalo, Junichi Tsujii, andDouglas B. Kell.
2010a.
Event extraction for sys-tems biology by text mining the literature.
Trends inBiotechnology.
(to appear).8http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA/139Sophia Ananiadou, Dan Sullivan, Gina-Anne Levow,Joseph Gillespie, Chunhong Mao, Sampo Pyysalo,Jun?ichi Tsujii, and Bruno Sobral.
2010b.
Namedentity recognition for bacterial type IV secretion sys-tems.
(manuscript in review).M Ashburner, CA Ball, JA Blake, D Botstein, H But-ler, JM Cherry, AP Davis, K Dolinski, SS Dwight,JT Eppig, MA Harris, DP Hill, L Issel-Tarver,A Kasarskis, S Lewis, JC Matese, JE Richardson,M Ringwald, GM Rubin, and G Sherlock.
2000.Gene ontology: tool for the unification of biology.Nature genetics, 25:25?29.Jari Bjo?rne, Juho Heimonen, Filip Ginter, Antti Airola,Tapio Pahikkala, and Tapio Salakoski.
2009.
Ex-tracting complex biological events with rich graph-based feature sets.
In Proceedings of the BioNLP2009 Workshop Companion Volume for Shared Task,pages 10?18, Boulder, Colorado, June.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin, 2001.
LIB-SVM: a library for support vector machines.Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/?cjlin/libsvm.Hong-Woo Chun, Yoshimasa Tsuruoka, Jin-DongKim, Rie Shiba, Naoki Nagata, Teruyoshi Hishiki,and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2006.
Extraction of gene-disease relations from medline using domain dic-tionaries and machine learning.
In Proceedings ofthe Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing (PSB?06),pages 4?15.Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Bill MacCartney, andChristopher D. Manning.
2006.
Generating TypedDependency Parses from Phrase Structure Parses.
InProceedings of the Fifth International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC?06),pages 449?454.Mario Juhas, Derrick W. Crook, and Derek W. Hood.2008.
Type IV secretion systems: tools of bacterialhorizontal gene transfer and virulence.
Cellular mi-crobiology, 10(12):2377?2386.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.2008.
Corpus annotation for mining biomedicalevents from lterature.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(1):10.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Overviewof BioNLP?09 Shared Task on Event Extraction.In Proceedings of Natural Language Processingin Biomedicine (BioNLP) NAACL 2009 Workshop,pages 1?9.Martin Krallinger, Florian Leitner, and Alfonso Valen-cia.
2007.
Assessment of the Second BioCreativePPI task: Automatic Extraction of Protein-ProteinInteractions.
In L. Hirschman, M. Krallinger, andA.
Valencia, editors, Proceedings of Second BioCre-ative Challenge Evaluation Workshop, pages 29?39.John D. Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and FernandoC .
N. Pereira.
2001.
Conditional random fields:Probabilistic models for segmenting and labeling se-quence data.
In ICML ?01: Proceedings of the18th International Conference on Machine Learn-ing, pages 282?289.R.
Leaman and G. Gonzalez.
2008.
Banner: an ex-ecutable survey of advances in biomedical namedentity recognition.
Pacific Symposium on Biocom-puting, pages 652?663.David McClosky and Eugene Charniak.
2008.
Self-Training for Biomedical Parsing.
In Proceedings ofthe 46th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics - Human Language Technolo-gies (ACL-HLT?08), pages 101?104.Claire Ne?dellec.
2005.
Learning Language inLogic - Genic Interaction Extraction Challenge.
InJ.
Cussens and C. Ne?dellec, editors, Proceedingsof the 4th Learning Language in Logic Workshop(LLL05), pages 31?37.Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, Sampo Pyysalo, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Incorporating GENETAG-style annotation to GENIA corpus.
In Proceedingsof Natural Language Processing in Biomedicine(BioNLP) NAACL 2009 Workshop, pages 106?107,Boulder, Colorado.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, Juho Heimonen, JariBjo?rne, Jorma Boberg, Jouni Ja?rvinen, and TapioSalakoski.
2007.
BioInfer: A corpus for infor-mation extraction in the biomedical domain.
BMCBioinformatics, 8(50).Andrey Rzhetsky, Ivan Iossifov, Tomohiro Koike,Michael Krauthammer, Pauline Kra, Mitzi Mor-ris, Hong Yu, Pablo Ariel Duboue?, Wubin Weng,W.
John Wilbur, Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, andCarol Friedman.
2004.
GeneWays: A system forextracting, analyzing, visualizing, and integratingmolecular pathway data.
Journal of Biomedical In-formatics, 37(1):43?53.Lorraine Tanabe, Natalie Xie, Lynne Thom, WayneMatten, and John Wilbur.
2005.
Genetag: a taggedcorpus for gene/protein named entity recognition.BMC Bioinformatics, 6(Suppl 1):S3.Paul Thompson, Syed Iqbal, John McNaught, andSophia Ananiadou.
2009.
Construction of an anno-tated corpus to support biomedical information ex-traction.
BMC Bioinformatics, 10(1):349.Yue Wang, Jin-Dong Kim, Rune Saetre, SampoPyysalo, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Investigat-ing heterogeneous protein annotations toward cross-corpora utilization.
BMC Bioinformatics, 10(1):403.John Wilbur, Lawrence Smith, and Lorraine Tanabe.2007.
BioCreative 2.
Gene Mention Task.
InL.
Hirschman, M. Krallinger, and A. Valencia, ed-itors, Proceedings of Second BioCreative ChallengeEvaluation Workshop, pages 7?16.140
