Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 First International Workshop on Formalisms and Methodology for Learning by Reading, pages 105?113,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Hybrid Approach to Unsupervised Relation Discovery Based onLinguistic Analysis and Semantic TypingZareen Syed Evelyne ViegasUniversity of Maryland Baltimore County Microsoft Research1000 Hilltop Circle One Microsoft WayBaltimore, MD 21229, USA Redmond, WA 98052, USAAbstractThis paper describes a hybrid approach forunsupervised and unrestricted relation discov-ery between entities using output from linguis-tic analysis and semantic typing informationfrom a knowledge base.
We use Factz (en-coded as subject, predicate and object triples)produced by Powerset as a result of linguisticanalysis.
A particular relation may be ex-pressed in a variety of ways in text and hencehave multiple facts associated with it.
Wepresent an unsupervised approach for collaps-ing multiple facts which represent the samekind of semantic relation between entities.Then a label is selected for the relation basedon the input facts and entropy based labelranking of context words.
Finally, we demon-strate relation discovery between entities atdifferent levels of abstraction by leveragingsemantic typing information from a know-ledge base.1 IntroductionThere are a number of challenges involved whenusing facts extracted from text to enrich a know-ledge base (KB) with semantic relations betweenentities:  co-reference resolution as there aremany co-referent objects; entity resolution inorder to link the entities mentioned in text to theright entities in the KB; handling co-referent re-lations, as a particular semantic relation betweenentities can be expressed in a variety of ways inthe text and therefore have multiple facts asso-ciated between the entities.
In addition,  the factsextracted from linguistic analysis are usually noi-sy and sparse.Our work focuses on a recent line of explora-tory work in the direction of Unrestricted Rela-tion Discovery which is defined as: the automaticidentification of different relations in text with-out specifying a relation or set of relations in ad-vance (Shinyama and Sekine, 2006).
We use thefacts which are the output of linguistic analysisfrom Powerset (www.Powerset.com).
Powersetis an online search engine for querying Wikipe-dia using Natural Language Queries.
Powersetperforms a linguistic analysis of the sentenceswithin Wikipedia and outputs facts in the form ofsubject, predicate and object triples which can bequeried through the online interface.
For mostentities like persons, places and things, Powersetshows a summary of facts from across Wikipedia(figure 1).
In our approach we use the readilyavailable ?Factz?
from Powerset as input to oursystem.
Powerset is Wikipedia independent andcan run on any corpus with well-formed sen-tences and hence our approach is also not limitedto Wikipedia.
The Factz output from Powersetmay represent relations between named entitiesor just nouns for example,Bank of America   <acquired>  bankBank of America   <acquired>  Merrill LynchBank of America    <owned>  buildingLinguistic analysis has been recently de-scribed as an effective technique for relation ex-traction (Yan et al, 2009; Kambhatla, 2004;Nguyen et al, 2007).
Following that trend, weincorporate Factz, that are the output of linguisticanalysis done by Powerset, to discover semanticrelations between entities.Information from existing knowledge re-Figure 1.
Demonstration of Powerset Factz availableonline105sources can help in tasks like named entity dis-ambiguation by providing additional context inthe form of linked entities in the KB and aid inlinking the entities mentioned in the text to theentities in the KB.
The KB can also provide in-formation about the entity types which can inturn be used to discover relations between entitytypes at different levels of abstraction and help inenriching the KB itself.
This could allow ontolo-gy engineers  to explore the kind of relations ex-isting between different entity types in a corpusand then design an ontology which is representa-tive of the entities and relations evident in thecorpus.Our overall approach to automatic relationdiscovery consists in  a hybrid approach  basedon Powerset Factz that are the output of linguis-tic analysis, and serve as input to our system;Text based label ranking by directly consideringthe context words in the sentences; and, Seman-tic Typing information from existing knowledgeresources to discover relations between Entitytypes at different levels of abstraction.The paper is organized as follows.
We discussthe related work in the next section.
In section 3we propose our approach and give the details ofdifferent components in our system.
In section 4,we discuss preliminary experiments and results.In the last section we conclude our work andgive future work directions.2 Related WorkHasegawa et al (2004) developed an approachfor unsupervised relation discovery by clusteringpairs of entities based on intervening wordsrepresented as context vectors.
They used themost frequent common word to label the clusterand hence the relation represented by the cluster.Shinyama and Sekine (2006) developed anapproach to preemptively discover relations in acorpus and present them as tables with all theentity pairs in the table having the same relationsbetween them.
For pairs of entities they generatebasic patterns that are parts of text syntacticallyconnected to the Entity and use the predicate ar-gument structure to make the basic patterns moregeneralized.
They generate a basic cluster fromarticles based on having similar basic patterns torepresent the same event and then they clusterthe basic clusters to get a set of events having thesame relation.Davidov et al (2007) developed a web miningapproach for discovering relations in which aspecified concept participates based on clusteringpatterns in which the concept words and otherwords appear.
Their system is based on the initialseed of two or more words representing the typeof concept one is interested in.Linguistic analysis has been reported as an ef-fective technique for semantic relation extrac-tion.
Harabagiu et al (2005) used shallow se-mantic parsers to enhance dependency tree ker-nels and to build semantic dependency structuresto improve relation extraction, they reported thattheir method improved the quality of the ex-tracted relations as compared to kernel-basedmodels that used semantic class information on-ly.Nguyen et al (2007) presented an approachfor relation extraction from Wikipedia by ex-tracting features from subtrees mined from thesyntactic structure of text.
Kambhatla (2004) de-veloped a method for extracting relations by ap-plying Maximum Entropy models to combinelexical, syntactic and semantic features and re-port that they obtain improvement in resultswhen they combine variety of features.
Most ofthe existing approaches have used linguisticanalysis to generate features for supervised orsemi-supervised relation extraction.Recently, Yan et al (2009) have developed anapproach for unsupervised relation discovery byintegrating linguistic analysis done on Wikipediawith context generated from the Web.
They de-velop a clustering approach based on dependencypatterns from dependency analysis of Wikipediaand surface patterns by querying the web to in-troduce redundancy.
They report that dependen-cy patterns improve the precision whereas, thesurface patterns improved the coverage.Banko et al (2008) introduce the TextRunnersystem which takes a small corpus sample asinput and uses a linguistic parser to generatetraining data which they use to train the extractorwhich can run at web scale.
However, Kok andDomingos (2008) have reported that the triplesoutput from the TextRunner system are noisy,sparse and contain many co-referent objects andrelations which is also the case with Powerset.Their system uses the output from the TextRun-ner system and uses Multiple Relational Cluster-ing model to get object clusters and relation clus-ters.1063 ApproachIn this section we describe in detail the differentsteps in our approach involving querying Factzfrom Powerset, collapsing facts expressing sametype of relation, Label Selection and introducingSemantic Typing information.
Figure 2 gives anoverview of our approach and Figure 3 shows thedifferent components in our system.
We discusseach component in detail below.3.1 Querying Powerset and RetrievingFactzIn the first step we query Powerset API by givingas input a list of entities or list of entity pairs andretrieve all the Factz and sentences that are asso-ciated with the entities or entity pairs from thePowerset API output.3.2 Collapsing Similar RelationsA particular semantic relationship can be ex-pressed in different ways in sentences.
For ex-ample words like ?purchase?, ?buy?
and ?ac-quire?
may represent the same semantic relationbetween the subject and the object.
Sometimesthe words might be direct synonyms in whichcase resources like WordNet (Miller et al, 1990)can help in identifying the same relation whereasin other cases the words might not be synonymsat all but may still imply the same semantic rela-tion between the subject and the object.
For ex-ample, we queried Powerset to get a sample ofrelations between companies and products.
Wegot relations like introduce, produce, sell, manu-facture and make.
It is often the case that compa-nies introduce and sell the products that theymanufacture, make or produce.
However, all ofthese words are not synonyms of each other andit may not be feasible to express the relation be-tween a company and a product in all these dif-ferent ways in a KB.We have developed an approach for collaps-ing relations expressed using different words inthe facts and represent it using the dominatingrelation between the pair of entities.
We explainthe different steps in our approach below.3.2.1 Relation ClusteringWe consider relations to be similar if they appearbetween the same subjects and the objects.
Wetake the set of Factz that we got by querying Po-Figure 3.
System FrameworkFigure 2.
The Knowledge Discovery approach uses Powerset Factz which are the output from linguistic analy-sis, article text for entropy based label ranking and existing knowledge resources for discovering relations atdifferent levels of abstraction and hence aiding in enriching the existing knowledge resources.107werset in the previous step and based on thoseFactz we construct a similarity matrix torepresent similarity between all pairs of relationsin the data set.
Each entry in the similarity matrixrepresents the number of times the pair of rela-tions had the same subject and object in the Factzdata set.
For example, in the sample dataset intable 1, the similarity matrix entry for the pairacquired and purchased would be 3.
We use thatsimilarity matrix as input and apply average linkagglomerative clustering algorithm over it.Subject Predicate ObjectBank of America acquired Merrill LynchBank of America acquired MBNABank of America acquired FleetBostonBank of America purchased FleetBostonBank of America purchased Merrill LynchBank of America purchased MBNATable 1.
Relations between same subjects and objectsin Powerset3.2.2 Filtering Ambiguous RelationsAfter the clustering step we have a step for filter-ing ambiguous relations from the clusters.
Weexplain the filtering procedure using an examplefrom one of the experiments in which two clus-ters were produced.
First cluster had acquire,purchase, buy and own relations and the secondcluster had introduce, produce, make and sayabout relations.
After clustering the relations wehave the following steps:1.
We take each pair of entities and get theset of relations between the pair of entities.
Forexample, the set of relation between ?Bank ofAmerica?
and ?Merrill Lynch?
are acquire, pur-chase and say about (figure 4).2.
By considering the set of relations be-tween each pair of entities we assign it to a clus-ter based on the maximum number of overlap-ping relations between the set and the clustermembers.
In our example clusters, we assign it tocluster one with which there is an overlap of tworelations i.e.
acquire and buy instead of assigningit to cluster two with which it has an overlap ofone relation i.e.
say about (figure 4).3.
Once an entity pair is assigned to a clus-ter, we consider other relations in the set of rela-tions present between that entity pair and if anyof those relations exists as a member of anothercluster we filter out that relation from that clus-ter.
For example, one of the relations present be-tween ?Bank of America?
and ?Merill Lynch?
issay about, and this relation is actually a memberof cluster two whereas, this pair is assigned tocluster one and therefore, we filter out say aboutfrom cluster two.
After cluster filtering, the labelfor the cluster is selected as the label that is themost frequent relation found in the set of entitypairs being assigned to the cluster.3.3 Relation Label SelectionA pair of entities might have more than one factassociated with them.
We select a representativelabel based on a hybrid approach by combiningthe output from entropy based label ranking(Chen et al, 2005) and clusters of similar rela-tions found by relational clustering.
We selectthe relation label as the cluster label of the clus-ter which has the maximum member overlapwith the predicates in the set of facts between apair of entities.
In case there is an overlap of justone relation, we select the label that is rankedhighest through entropy based label ranking ap-proach (Chen et al, 2005).
According to theiralgorithm, the importance of terms can be as-sessed using the entropy criterion, which is basedon the assumption that a term is irrelevant if itspresence obscures the separability of the dataset.There may be cases where there are multiple re-lations existing between a given pair of entities,however, in our approach we select the relationlabel that is evident in the majority of the factsassociated with the pair.3.4 Semantic TypingFor certain applications there might be the needof discovering relations between specific types ofentities rather than instances of entities.
For ex-ample, for ontology engineering, the ontologyFigure 4.
Filtering ambiguous relations from exist-ing clusters108engineer might want to explore the kind of rela-tions that exist between different entity typesbased on the data set and then develop an ontol-ogy representing those relations.
Therefore, wehave a component in our system that incorpo-rates semantic type information into the Factzbefore collapsing the relations present in thefacts.
The semantic type module queries a know-ledge base for the entity type and replaces theentity instance names with entity types in theFactz data set.
We have used the Freebase (Me-taweb Technologies, 2009) Knowledge base toassociate the entity types for the entities that weexperimented with.
When this modified versionof the Factz dataset is given as input to the nextcomponent of the system i.e.
Collapse Relations,the similarity between relations is computedbased on having the same subject and object enti-ty types rather than entity instances.
Followingthe Semantic Typing path in the system wouldoutput the relations discovered between types ofentities.
Introducing Semantic Typing informa-tion can also help in creating redundancy in thedataset and overcome the data sparseness prob-lem.
For example in case of relations such as ac-quire and purchase if we cannot get evidence ofoverlap in the subject and object in the Factz da-taset then we cannot assign them any similarityscore in the similarity matrix however, if we re-place the instance names with instance types andconsider the overlap between the instance typeswe can get more evidence about their similarity.4 Experiments and ResultsIn this section, we present the preliminary expe-riments we conducted to evaluate the approach.We start by an initial evaluation of PowersetFactz by comparing them with ground truth andtext based label ranking (Chen et al, 2005).
Wethen use our approach to discover relations be-tween different entity types.
The details of theexperiments and results are discussed below.4.1 Preliminary Evaluation of PowersetFactzOur first experiment was targeted towards a pre-liminary evaluation of the accuracy of PowersetFactz themselves and their performance whencompared with ground truth and with Entropybased label ranking approach which does not useany linguistic analysis.
To achieve this we tookthe ?acquisitions?
table from Freebase.
The ?ac-quisitions?
table has a list of companies and theiracquisitions.
We considered the acquisitionstable as ground truth as this information is eitherentered manually by contributors or importedfrom Wikipedia via DBpedia.
We queried Po-werset by giving the entity pairs as input andwere able to retrieve Factz for 170 pairs out of1107 entity pairs present in Freebase table.
Thenumber of pairs for which Powerset returnedFactz is low because Powerset currently extractsFactz from well formed sentences and not semi-structured or structured information such astables or info-boxes in Wikipedia and the acqui-sition relation is mostly expressed in the form oftables or lists in Wikipedia articles.
We appliedrelational clustering and stopped clustering whenthe similarity between the clusters was less than4.
We identified one cluster (acquire, purchase,buy) having more than one member and got 146relations labeled accurately i.e.
85% accuracythrough our approach.
We repeated the experi-ment using Entropy based label ranking approach(Chen et al, 2005).
We were mainly focusing onrelations that were expressed by verbs.
We tookall sentences between a pair of entities fromwhich Powerset had extracted Factz.
We ex-tracted verbs from those sentences and rankedthose verbs based on the entropy based labelranking approach and considered any of the la-bels matching with the cluster members (acquire,purchase, buy) as correct prediction.
We com-pared the results with the ground truth and gotthe accuracy of 72% (table 2).
Our preliminaryexperiment on the sample dataset demonstratedthat the relation labels assigned by Powersethave reasonably high accuracy when comparedwith ground truth i.e.
85% and also give higheraccuracy as compared to the entropy based labelranking approach for the sample data set.4.2 Discovering Relations between DifferentTypes of Entity PairsIn this experiment we wanted to explore if ourapproach was successful in discovering relationsexisting between different types of entity pairsand clusters the pairs into separate clusters.We constructed two datasets using Wikipediapage links between articles on entities namelyPersons and Organizations.
Using ?person?
typeand ?organization?
type specified in Freebase,Approach AccuracyPowerset Factz based approach 85%Entropy based Label ranking 72%Table 2.
Comparison of Powerset Factz basedapproach and Entropy based label ranking109we were able to construct a list of Wikipedia ar-ticles that were on Persons and Organizations.The Wikipedia article links served the purpose offinding out which organizations are related towhich other organizations and which persons arerelated to which organizations.
The first datasetrepresented relations between Organizationswhereas the second dataset represented relationsbetween Persons and Organizations.
We appliedrelational clustering for collapsing similar rela-tions and evaluated the output clusters at differ-ent thresholds to see if they represented relationsbetween different types of entities.
At stoppingwith a threshold of 2 we found the following twoclusters having more than one member: one ofthe clusters represented the relations present be-tween a pair of Organizations (acquire, pur-chase, buy, own, say about, take over) and theother cluster represented the relations betweenPersons and Organizations (formed, found, lead)(table 3).
The experiment confirmed the effec-tiveness of clustering approach as it clusters rela-tions between different kinds of entity pairs intodifferent clusters.Relations ClustersOrg-OrgCluster 1: acquire, purchase, buy, own, sayabout, take over overPers-Org  Cluster 2: found, lead, formTable 3.
Relations between different types of entitypairs are clustered into different clusters4.3 Improving RecallIn this experiment we were interested in findingif Factz from Powerset can help in discoveringrelations between entities that are not present inresources like DBpedia and Freebase.
We took alist of organization (with > 28,000 organizationnames from Freebase and an internal KnowledgeBase) and retrieved Powerset Factz having thoseorganizations as subjects.
We performed relationclustering and output clusters at different thre-sholds.
We selected the minimum threshold forwhich there were at least two clusters with morethan one member.
From the two clusters, onecluster had manufacture, produce and make rela-tions and the second had acquire, purchase, own,operate and buy relations (table 4).
Our intuitionwas that the first cluster represented relationsbetween organizations and products.
Therefore,we took the ?company-products?
table fromFreebase and compared it with our dataset.
How-ever, we could only find an overlap of 3 subjectobject pairs.
The second cluster had relations thatwe earlier found to exist between organizationshaving the acquisition relation between them,therefore, we took the ?acquisitions?
table fromFreebase and compared it against our dataset.Comparing the pairs with our list of organiza-tions, we found 104 pairs that had an organiza-tion as a subject and an object.
Out of those 104pairs 97 pairs were assigned to cluster 2 and 7pairs were assigned to cluster 1.
When we com-pared those 97 pairs with Freebase ?acquisition?table (which had 73 pairs of organizations thatoverlapped with our dataset) we found that 66existed in the set and were therefore predictedcorrectly.
We then inspected the rest of the pairsmanually and found that there were 16 additionalpairs that were predicted to have the acquire re-lation and which were not present in the Freebasetable.
Therefore, this approach helped in identi-fying 16 additional organization pairs havingacquisition relation between them correctly.Cluster Cluster Members1 manufacture, produce, make2 acquire, purchase, own, operate, buyTable 4.
Clustering results for Relations having Or-ganizations as subjectsStatisticsNo.
of pairs in Freebase table 73No.
of discovered pairs matching Freebase 66No.
of additional pairs discovered 16Total no.
of correctly discovered pairs 82/104Accurate Predictions %age 78%Table 5.
Evaluation results for improving recall bydiscovering additional entity pairs having the acquisi-tion relationAnother observation worth mentioning is that theacquisition relation is represented mostly in theform of tables in Wikipedia whereas Powersetonly processes information that is present in sen-tences.
In spite of that, our approach was able tofind new entity pairs from text that did not al-ready exist in information extracted by othersources (table 5).4.4 Discovering Relations at Different Le-vels of AbstractionIn this experiment we introduced Semantic Typeinformation in the Factz data set to discover rela-tions at different levels of abstraction i.e.
be-tween Entity Types at different levels (For ex-ample School or Organization, where School is atype of Organization).We took a list of 13000 organizations forwhich we had their Organization Types available110from an internal KB and queried Powerset forFactz between all pairs of organizations and wereable to retrieve more than 88,000 Factz.
Wepassed on the Factz to the Semantic Typingmodule to replace the Organization names withtheir types.
The Factz dataset with SemanticType information was given as input for collaps-ing relations, where the similarity matrix wasconstructed based on the same subject and objecttypes (rather than same subject and object in-stances), after which the clustering was per-formed.
We evaluated the clusters at differentstopping thresholds but the system did not gener-ate any meaningful clusters.
We then looked intothe dataset and realized that a lot of noise wasintroduced into the system due to various organi-zation names which were very ambiguous andreplacing the ambiguous organization nameswith organization types had magnified the noise.For example, in our organizations list there is anorganization with the name ?Systems?
which isof type ?Medical Instrument Supplies?.
It had thefollowing fact related to it: <3d systems> <man-ufacture> <systems>.
Replacing the organizationname with the type resulted in the following facti.e., <multimedia graphics software> <manufac-ture> <medical instruments supplies>.
Such am-biguous names when replaced with wrong typesfurther magnified the noise.4.4.1 Resolving AmbiguityAs discussed, ambiguous organization namesintroduced noise and replacing them with organi-zation types magnified the noise.
Therefore, itwas important to resolve the ambiguity in thenames of entities before applying Semantic Typ-ing.
There are different approaches than can beused to recognize and disambiguate Named Enti-ties, which we discuss below.4.4.1.1 Named Entity RecognitionPowerset has Factz that are extracted fromsentences.
The Factz may be present betweenNamed Entities or even just words in sentences.For example ?Accord?
is a name of a trade unionand is also a word.
Running Named Entity Rec-ognition systems over the sentences from whichthe Factz have been extracted can help in identi-fying named entities and in eliminating suchfactz which are not between named entities.
Ingeneral, the relation extraction systems have aninitial step where they identify entities in sen-tences through NER systems and then discoverrelations between those entities.Most of Named Entity Recognition and Dis-ambiguation systems use the contextual informa-tion to disambiguate between entities.
The con-textual information could be words in the sen-tences or other entities in the sentences where theentity is mentioned.
Having some evidence thattwo entities are related in some way can alsohelp in eliminating much of the ambiguity.
Ingeneral, the relation extraction systems have aninitial step where they find related entity pairsbased on Co-occurrences and then discover rela-tions between those pairs of entities which fre-quently co-occur with each other in sentences.We followed the approach of getting addition-al context by using entity pairs for querying Po-werset for which we have background know-ledge that the pairs are related through some rela-tion and only retrieved the Factz that were be-tween those entity pairs.
We repeated the sameexperiment.
However, this time we gave as inputpairs of entity names for which we have evidencethat the entities are related and then ran the expe-riment with and without semantic typing infor-mation to validate if introducing semantic typingcan give us some additional advantage.
We dis-cuss the details of our experiment below.Relations between Entity Types Freebase Sourceperson - organization PersonEmployment tableperson- school Education tableorganization-organization Acquisitions tableTable 6.
Data Set with relations between differenttypes of entities extracted from Freebase tablesUsing Freebase tables we extracted datasetsfor relations present between three differentkinds of entity pairs i.e persons and organizations(e.g.
Person-join-Organization), persons andschool (e.g.
Person-attend-School) and Organiza-tions and Organizations (e.g.
Organization- ac-quire-Organization) (table 6).
We used the pairsof entities (Persons - Organizations, Persons -Schools and Organizations - Organizations) toquery Powerset and extracted the Factz that cor-responded to those pairs.
Table 7 gives an exam-ple of the predicates in the Factz found betweenthe different types of entity pairs.After clustering we evaluated the clusters andwere expecting to get the relations between threedifferent kinds of entity pairs namely Person -Organization, Person - School, Organization -Organization into three separate clusters.
Weevaluated the output clusters at different stoppingthresholds but were not able to get three clustersusing any threshold.
Table 8 shows the clusters111found at threshold of 2.
There were two possiblereasons for this outcome, one reason was that wedid not have enough redundancy in the data setto get meaningful clusters and secondly,?school?
is a type of ?organization?
which couldhave introduced ambiguity.
In order to introduceredundancy we replaced all the entity names withtheir types (i.e., Person, Organization, School) inthe Factz and repeated the experiment with Enti-ty Type information rather than Entity names.We evaluated the clusters at different thresholdsand were able to separate the relation sets intothree clusters with greater than one member.
Ta-ble 9 gives the results of clustering where we gotthree clusters with more than one member atminimum threshold.The clusters represented the relations presentbetween the three different types of entity pairsi.e., person and school, organization and organi-zation and person and organization (table 9).Wikipedia is a very non-redundant resourceand redundancy helps in getting more evidenceabout the similarity between relations.
Otherapproaches (Yan et al, 2009) have used the webfor getting redundant information and improvingrecall.
In addition, there are many sentences inWikipedia for which Powerset has no corres-ponding Factz associated (it might be due tosome strong filtering heuristics).
Using semantictyping helped in introducing redundancy, withoutwhich we were not able to cluster the relationsbetween different types of entity pairs into sepa-rate clusters.
Semantic Typing also helped inidentifying the relations present between entitiesat different levels of abstraction.
This can help insuggesting relations between different entitytypes evident in the corpus during the Ontologyengineering process.5 ConclusionsWe have developed a hybrid approach for unsu-pervised and unrestricted relation discovery be-tween entities using linguistic analysis via Po-werset, entropy based label ranking and semantictyping information from a Knowledge base.
Weinitially compared the accuracy of PowersetFactz with ground truth and with entropy basedlabel ranking approach on a sample dataset andobserved that the relations discovered throughPowerset Factz gave higher accuracy than theentropy based approach for the sample dataset.We also developed an approach to collapse a setof relations represented in facts as a single domi-nating relation and introduced a hybrid approachfor label selection based on relation clusteringand entropy based label ranking.
Our experi-ments showed that the relational clustering ap-proach was able to cluster different kinds of enti-ty pairs into different clusters.
For the case wherethe kinds of entity pairs were at different levelsof abstraction, introducing Semantic Typing in-formation helped in introducing redundancy andalso in clustering relations between differentkinds of entity pairs whereas, the direct approachwas not able to identify meaningful clusters.
Weplan to further test our approach on a greater va-riety of relations and on a larger scale.Relation Example of Powerset Factz PredicatesPerson- Organization join, leave, found, form, start, createPerson ?
School attend, enter, return to, enroll at, study atOrganization - Or-ganizationacquire, purchase, buy, ownTable 7.
Example of Predicates in Powerset Factzrepresenting relations between different types of entitypairsNo.
Cluster Members Semantic Types1 enroll at, return to Person-School2 found, purchase, buy, acquire,create, say about, ownOrganization- Organi-zation,Person-OrganizationTable 8.
Results of Clustering Relations between Enti-ty Pairs without using Semantic TypingNo.
Cluster Members Semantic Relation1 lead, prep at, play for, enter,study, play, graduate, transferto, play at, enroll in, go to,remain at, enroll at, teach at,move to, attend, join, leave,teach, study at, return to, workatPerson- School2 acquire, purchase, buy, own,say aboutOrganization - Organi-zation3 found, create Person - OrganizationTable 9.
Results of Clustering Relations with SemanticTyping112ReferencesDat P. T. Nguyen, Yutaka Matsuo, and Mitsuru Ishi-zuka.
2007.
Subtree mining for relation extractionfrom Wikipedia.
In Proc.
of NAACL ?07: pages125?128.Dmitry Davidov, Ari Rappoport and Moshe Koppel.2007.
Fully unsupervised discovery of concept-specific relationships by Web mining.
Proceedingsof the 45th Annual Meeting of the Association ofComputational Linguistics,  pp.
232?239.George A. Miller ,  Richard Beckwith ,  ChristianeFellbaum ,  Derek Gross ,  Katherine Miller.
1990.Wordnet: An on-line lexical database.
InternationalJournal of Lexicography, 3(4):235-312.Jinxiu Chen, Donghong Ji, Chew Lim Tan and Zhen-gyu Niu.
Unsupervised Feature Selection for Rela-tion Extraction.
In Proc.
of  IJCNLP-2005.Metaweb Technologies, Freebase Data Dumps,http://download.freebase.com/datadumps/ July,2009Michele Banko ,  Michael J Cafarella ,  Stephen So-derl ,  Matt Broadhead ,  Oren Etzioni.
2008.
Openinformation extraction from the web.
Commun.ACM 51, 12 (Dec. 2008), 68-74.Nanda Kambhatla.
2004.
Combining lexical, syntacticand semantic features with maximum entropymodels.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2004 on Inter-active poster and demonstration sessions.Sanda Harabagiu, Cosmin Andrian Bejan, and PaulMorarescu.
2005.
Shallow semantics for relationextraction.
In Proc.
of IJCAI 2005.Soren Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, JensLehmann, Richard Cyganiak, and Zachary Ives.2007.
Dbpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data.In Proc.
of ISWC 2007.Stanley Kok and Pedro Domingos.
2008.
ExtractingSemantic Networks from Text Via Relational Clus-tering.
In Proc.
of the ECML-2008.Takaaki Hasegawa, Satoshi Sekine and Ralph Grish-man.
2004.
Discovering Relations among NamedEntities from Large Corpora.
In Proc.
of ACL-04.Powerset.
www.Powerset.comYulan Yan, Naoaki Okazaki, Yutaka Matsuo, ZhengluYang, and Mitsuru Ishizuka.
2009.
Unsupervisedrelation extraction by mining Wikipedia texts usinginformation from the web.
In ACL-IJCNLP ?09:Volume 2, pages 1021?1029.Yusuke Shinyama and Satoshi Sekine.
2006.
Preemp-tive information extraction using unrestricted rela-tion discovery.
In HLT/NAACL-2006.113
