Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Louhi Workshop on Text and Data Mining of Health Documents, pages 15?21,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsNegation Detection in Swedish Clinical TextMaria SkeppstedtDSV/Stockholm UniversityForum 100SE-164 40 Kista, Swedenmariask@dsv.su.seAbstractNegEx, a rule-based algorithm that detectsnegations in English clinical text, was trans-lated into Swedish and evaluated on clini-cal text written in Swedish.
The NegEx al-gorithm detects negations through the use oftrigger phrases, which indicate that a preced-ing or following concept is negated.
A listof English trigger phrases was translated intoSwedish, taking grammatical differences be-tween the two languages into account.
Thistranslation was evaluated on a set of 436 man-ually classified sentences from Swedish healthrecords.
The results showed a precision of70% and a recall of 81% for sentences con-taining the trigger phrases and a negative pre-dictive value of 96% for sentences not con-taining any trigger phrases.
The precisionwas significantly lower for the Swedish adap-tation than published results on the Englishversion, but since many negated propositionswere identified through a limited set of triggerphrases, it could nevertheless be concludedthat the same trigger phrase approach is possi-ble in a Swedish context, even though it needsto be further developed.1 IntroductionMedical documentation, such as patient records, istoday often stored in a digital, searchable format.This opens the possibility of extracting information,which for example could be used for disease surveil-lance or to find new, unknown connections betweenpatient background, symptoms and diseases.
Whenextracting information from a text, it is not only thewords that occur in the text that are important, butalso whether these words are negated or not.
Thisis especially true when it comes to patient records,since when describing the status of a patient, thephysician often reasons by excluding various pos-sible diagnoses and symptoms.Most work on detecting negations in medical lan-guage has been carried out for English, and very lit-tle has been carried out for other languages, as forexample Swedish.
This article will therefore focuson the task of finding whether a concept in a clinicaltext written in Swedish is negated or not.12 Related researchThere are many different methods for detectingwhether a concept is negated.
Rokach et al (2008)give a good overview of some approaches for de-tecting negations.
The methods can be divided intotwo main groups; knowledge engineering methodsand machine learning methods.
Knowledge engi-neering methods have the advantage that a large an-notated corpus is not needed, but the disadvantagethat rules have to be written manually, which is oftentime-consuming.
Negation detection based on ma-chine learning methods, on the other hand, is fasterto implement and often works better when a text isnot completely grammatical, which is often the casewith clinical texts.
(Rokach et al, 2008)Since little previous work has been done on nega-tion detection in Swedish medical text, the first step1This research has been carried out after approvalfrom the Regional Ethical Review Board in Stockholm(Etikpro?vningsna?mnden i Stockholm), permission number2009/1742-31/5.15for Swedish negation detection is to adapt a sim-ple knowledge engineering method that is used fordetecting negations in English, an algorithm calledNegEx.
(Chapman et al, 2001b)2.1 The NegEx algorithmNegEx detects pertinent negatives in English patientrecords, that is ?findings and diseases explicitly orimplicitly described as absent in a patient?.
Given asentence and a chosen proposition in this sentence,NegEx determines if that proposition is negated ornot.
An example would be ?Extremities showedno cyanoses.
?, in which the proposition is cyanoses.
(Chapman et al, 2001b)The NegEx algorithm uses regular expressionsand three lists of phrases.
The first list, the pre-negation list, consists of trigger phrases which indi-cate that a proposition that follows them is negatedin the sentence, for example no signs of.
The secondlist, the post-negation list, consists of trigger phrasesthat indicate that a proposition preceding them isnegated, as the phrase unlikely.
Finally, the thirdlist consists of pseudo-negation phrases, phrases thatare similar to negation triggers, but that do not trig-ger negation, for example not certain if.
The algo-rithm judges the proposition to be negated if it is inthe range of one to six words from a post- or pre-negation trigger.
(Chapman et al, 2001b)NegEx has later been further developed intoNegEx version 22, for example through the additionof more triggers and by limiting the scope of thenegation through a list of conjunctions.In the evaluation of NegEx, the propositions con-sisted of UMLS3 phrases that belonged to any ofthe UMLS categories finding, disease or syndromeor mental or behavioral dysfunction and that couldalso be found in the describing text of an ICD-10code4.
Sentences containing these UMLS phraseswere extracted from discharge summaries.
There-after, 500 of the extracted sentences that containedat least one negation trigger and 500 sentences thatdid not contain a negation trigger were randomly se-lected.
A few sentences that contained phrases thatwere suspected to sometimes indicate a negation, butthat were not in the three lists, were included in the2http://www.dbmi.pitt.edu/chapman/negex.html3See Bodenreider (2004) for a description of UMLS4http://www.who.int/classifications/icd/en/first group.
The sentences were then categorised byphysicians into containing an affirmed proposition,a negated proposition or an ambiguous proposition.The inter-rater agreement was almost 100%.
For theNegEx evaluation, the categories affirmed and am-biguous were grouped into the category not negated.The results showed a precision of 84% and a recallof 82% for sentences in the group with negation trig-gers and a negative predictive value of 97% for sen-tences in the group without triggers.
Of the correctlyfound negations, 82% were triggered by only threenegation triggers; no, without and no evidence of.Moreover, only 15 of the 35 negation triggers werefound in the test set.
The trigger not had a preci-sion of 58%, which was much lower than the preci-sion for the other common triggers.
(Chapman et al,2001b)An evaluation of the NegEx algorithm on tenother kinds of reports has also been carried out.
Theaverage precision of NegEx was 97%, and 90% ofthe detected negations were triggered by only sevennegation phrases, with the four most frequent beingno, denies, without and no evidence.
(Chapman etal., 2001a)In a later study by Goldin and Chapman (2003), aNaive Bayes classifier and a decision tree were usedto classify which occurrences of the trigger not thatindicated a negation, based on features such as sur-rounding words and their part of speech.
Both thesemethods resulted in an increased precision.3 Research QuestionAn evaluation was carried out on how the NegExalgorithm performs on health records written inSwedish, compared to health records written inEnglish.
The hypothesis was that the results forSwedish would be similar to the results for En-glish, since the two languages are grammaticallyclose.
This comparison could give an indication ofwhether it is possible to adapt more advanced meth-ods for negation detection into Swedish, and the re-sults could also be used as a baseline for comparingthe results of other methods.4 Translation and adaption methodIn order to use NegEx on a Swedish text, there mustbe a list of Swedish phrases that trigger negation.164.1 Translating trigger phrasesThe triggers for Swedish were obtained by translat-ing the phrases forNegEx version 2.
The translationswere made with the help of a web-based English-Swedish dictionary5 and with the help of Googletranslate6.
In the cases where there was a good trans-lation neither in the dictionary nor in the Googletranslation, the negation was translated by the au-thor of this article.
When it was not possible to finda good Swedish translation, the phrase was omitted.A total of 148 phrases were translated.
Almost allnegation phrases were general English terms.
How-ever, in a few cases they consisted of specific med-ical terms, and in these cases the translation wasmade by a physician.
In many instances the dictio-nary offered many translations, and in other casesthe same translation was offered for different En-glish phrases.
In the cases where several translationswere offered, all of them were added to the list ofSwedish negations.4.2 Expanding the translated trigger phrasesEnglish and Swedish are both Germanic languages(Crystal, 1997) and they have a similar grammar.Nevertheless, there are some grammatical differ-ences that have to be taken into account through anexpansion of the list of translated trigger phrases.Swedish has two grammatical genders (commongender and neuter gender), whereas the English lan-guage lacks grammatical gender.
Adjectives andsome quantifiers in Swedish have a gender concord,as well as a number concord (Dahl, 1982).
To com-pensate for this, the English negative quantifier nowas translated into three different forms of the corre-sponding Swedish negative quantifier, namely inga,ingen and inget.
Inflections of all adjectives in thetrigger phrases were also generated.
This was ac-complished by invoking the Granska inflector7.The English combinations of aspect and tense donot always correspond directly to a Swedish verbform (Dahl, 1982).
Therefore, a direct translationof the different forms of a verb in the trigger phraselist was not performed.
The lemma form of the verbwas instead added to the list of negation triggers in5http://www.norstedtsord.se6http://translate.google.com7http://www.csc.kth.se/tcs/humanlang/tools.htmlSwedish, and from this all inflections of the verbwere generated, again using the Granska inflector.The difference connected with the do-construction did not need to be taken into account.When negating a non-auxiliary verb in English, thedo-construction is used.
This type of constructiondoes not exist in Swedish.
The phrase han vet (heknows) would for example be negated as han vetinte (he knows not) (Svartvik and Sager, 1996).However, the NegEx algorithm only checks ifthe proposition is less than six words to the rightof the word inte (not), and when it is, it willconsider the proposition to be negated.
The lackof a do-construction should therefore not affect theresults.8Swedish has a word order inversion in subordi-nate clauses.
The position of the negating adverbis changed, and it is instead positioned immedi-ately before the verb (Holmes and Hinchliffe, 2008).When stressing the negation, there is also the possi-bility of using this word order in the main clause(Sells, 2000).
A version with reversed word orderwas therefore generated for trigger phrases contain-ing some of the most common adverbs.
From thetranslation of the trigger phrase has not, a versionwith the word order not has was for example gener-ated.The frequency of the Swedish trigger phrases wascounted on a text other than the test set, and themost frequent trigger phrases were selected.
Thenumber of selected phrases was two more than usedin the English NegEx evaluation, to compensate forSwedish gender and number concord9.5 Evaluation method5.1 Construction of test dataPropositions to use for evaluating the performanceof the Swedish version of NegEx were taken fromthe Swedish translation of the ICD-10 codes.
How-ever, the description in the ICD-10 code list oftencontains both the name of a symptom or disease anda clarification or specification of it, which has the8When negating the actual verb on the other hand, the posi-tion of the word not is different in English and Swedish.
In orderfor the Swedish NegEx to handle verb phrase propositions, thisdifference has to be accounted for.9The triggers that were used can be downloaded fromhttp://people.dsv.su.se/?mariask/resources/triggers.txt17effect that simple string matching would not findsome of the most common symptoms and diseases.An automatic pre-processing of the ICD-10 code listwas therefore first accomplished, where for exam-ple text within parenthesis and clarifications suchas not specified or other specified forms were re-moved.
To find more names of symptoms and dis-eases, additional lists were also added, including theKSH97-P10, an adaption of the ICD-10 codes forprimary care, and the MeSH terms under the sec-tions diseases and mental disorders.The test data was extracted from a set of sen-tences randomly chosen from the assessment partof Swedish health records from the Stockholm EPRCorpus (Dalianis et al, 2009).
From this set, sen-tences that contained any of the propositions in theproposition list were extracted, also when the propo-sition was part of a compound word.
Neither the pre-processing of the ICD-10 code list nor the detectionof a proposition in a compound word was perfectand therefore some words that were not compara-ble with findings, diseases or syndromes or mentalor behavioral dysfunctions, were added to the list ofpropositions.
Sentences containing these were man-ually filtered out from the test data.The chosen sentences were ordered in a list ofpairs, consisting of the sentence and the proposition.If a sentence contained more than one proposition,the sentence was added to the list one time for eachproposition.In order to be able to compare the English andSwedish versions of NegEx, the same evaluationmethod was used, and two groups of test sentenceswere constucted.
The first group, Trig, contained202 sentences with at least one of the trigger phrases.The second group, Non-Trig, contained 234 sen-tences without any of the trigger phrases.5.2 Classification of test dataThe propositions were manually classified into thecategories affirmed, negated and ambiguous by arater without medical education.
The categories af-firmed and ambiguous were thereafter collapsed intothe category not negated.
The results are presentedin Table 1.Of the 202 sentences in group Trig, 70 were also10http://www.socialstyrelsen.se/publikationer1996/1996-4-1Negated Not negated TotalTrig 90 112 202Non-Trig 10 224 234Table 1: Number of sentences manually classified asnegated and not negated for each of the groups Trig andNon-Trig.
Group Trig only contains sentences with trig-ger phrases and Group Non-Trig only contains sentenceswithout trigger phrases.classified by a physician.
The inter-rater agreementbetween the physician and the other rater with re-spect to the two groups negated and not negated was80%.The majority of the sentences where there wasdisagreement were judged as negated by the physi-cian rater and ambiguous by the other rater, or am-biguous by the physician rater and negated by theother rater.
There was no evident systematic ten-dency to judge the propositions as more or less am-biguous by either of the two raters.When there was a difference in opinion of how toclassify the proposition, the classification made bythe physician was chosen.
Also sentences that weresubjectively judged by the rater as not possible torate without deep medical knowledge, were rated bythe physician.6 ResultsThe Swedish version of NegEx was executed withthe sentences in group Trig and the sentences ingroup Non-Trig as input sentences.11 As shown inTable 2, group Trig had a precision of 70% and arecall of 81%.
Group Non-Trig had a negative pre-dictive value of 96%, as shown in Table 3.When comparing Swedish and English results forrecall using the ?2-test, no significant difference wasfound between them.
(p-value>> 0.1).
When com-paring the results for precision using the ?2-test, itwas significantly lower for Swedish.
(p < 0.001).The precision of each trigger was also countedand the results are shown in Table 4.11http://code.google.com/p/negex/updates/list is the web lo-cation of NegEx (negex.python.zip, 2009).
NegEx could beused in a Swedish context without any major modifications.18Group Trig English Swedishrecall (sensitivity) 82.00 % 81 %specificity 82.50 % 71 %precision (ppv) 84.49 % 70 %npv 80.21 % 82 %Table 2: Group Trig, 500 English sentences and 202Swedish sentences.
Recall: No.
of correctly detectednegated propositions divided by no.
of manually ratednegated propositions.
Specificity: No.
of propositionscorrectly detected as not negated divided by no.
propo-sitions that were manually rated as not negated.
Preci-sion: No.
of correctly detected negated propositions di-vided by total no.
of propositions that NegEx classifiedas negated.
Negative predictive value: No.
of proposi-tions that NegEx correctly did not classify as negated di-vided by total no.
of propositions that NegEx did not clas-sify as negated.
(Figures for English from Chapman et al(2001b).
)Group Non-Trig English Swedishnpv 96.99 % 96 %Table 3: Group Non-Trig, 500 English sentences and 234Swedish sentences.
(Figures for English from Chapmanet al (2001b).
)7 DiscussionThe comparison between the English and Swedishevaluations is complicated by the fact that theSwedish test data had lower inter-rater agreement,which adds uncertainty to the Swedish results.
Thisdifference could perhaps be partly explained by thedifferent types of health records; the English versionwas evaluated on discharge summaries, whereas theSwedish version was evaluated on the assessmentpart of a health record, which possibly contains morereasoning and thereby perhaps more ambiguous ex-pressions.Also, the fact that group Trig in the evaluationof the English version also included some sentencesnot containing trigger phrases complicates the com-parison.It could, however, be concluded that the preci-sion is lower for Swedish.
The following error typescould at least account for some of this difference:It is difficult to draw a line between what is anambiguous expression and what is a negation, bothfor the raters and for the NegEx program.
ThePhrase Precision Occur.inga tecken (no signs of) 89 % 9ingen (no) 89 % 27ej (not) 75 % 8inga (no, plural) 67 % 15utan (without) 63 % 8inte har (not have) 60 % 5inte (not) 57 % 21icke (non-, not) 0 % 4Table 4: The most frequent triggers, their precision andthe number of times they occur in the sentences.above-mentioned difference in type of evaluationdata could have resulted in lower precision and re-call for the Swedish version.It is a common construction for a name of a dis-ease, or a version of a disease, to have a name thatstarts with the word icke (non-, not), for exampleicke allergisk astma.
The disease is present in thepatient, even though the word icke is interpreted asa negation trigger by NegEx.
In the test data, all theoccurrences of the word icke are constructions likethis, thus having a negative impact on precision.The Swedish word for without (utan) has a doublemeaning.
It is also a conjunction meaning but.
Thisgives rise to a few instances where the program in-correctly classifies a proposition as negated, result-ing in lower precision.Other error types were also identified.
Thesewere, however, not specific for Swedish or for thetype of test data, and could therefore not account forthe difference in precision between the English andSwedish versions of NegEx.
Examples are when thenegation of the proposition occurs in a conditionalclause or when the scope of the trigger should beless than the NegEx scope of six words, for examplewhen the scope is limited by a conjunction.7.1 Identified negation triggersIn the test set, only 16 of the 39 negation triggerswere found, and among them, only 12 correctlynegated a proposition.
This is close to the Englishversion where 15 of 37 triggers were found.
None ofthe post-negation triggers were found in the Swedishtest data.In the English version of NegEx, 82% of the cor-19rectly found negations were triggered by the threenegation phrases no, without and no evidence of.
Inthe Swedish version, the three most common trig-gers were the common gender version of no (ingen),not (inte) and the plural form of no (inga).
Together,they constitute 63% of the total number of correctlyidentified negations.
If the trigger in fourth place, nosigns of, is also counted, they make up 75% of thecorrectly negated propositions.
In both English andSwedish there are thus a small number of negationtriggers that are very common.It can also be noted that both in Swedish and En-glish, the precision of the trigger not (inte) is low.No other common negation triggers were found inthe test data.
The only re-occurring trigger that wasnot included in any of the three lists were differentforms of the phrase rule out.8 ConclusionThe Swedish version of the NegEx algorithm had asignificantly lower precision than the English ver-sion, and for the recall no significant conclusionscould be drawn.
Not taking the uncertainty of thelow inter-rater agreement into account, the Swedishversion has a precision of 70% and a recall of 81%for sentences containing the trigger phrases and anegative predictive value of 96% for sentences notcontaining any trigger phrases.
As for the Englishversion, a small number of trigger phrases accountedfor the majority of detected negations.Since a limited set of triggers can be used to iden-tify many negations also in Swedish, this simple ap-proach of the NegEx algorithm can be used as a basemethod for identifying negations in Swedish.
How-ever, even for use in a system without high demandson robustness, the method needs to be further devel-oped.From the relatively low inter-rater agreement, es-pecially with respect to concepts that might be clas-sified as either ambiguous or negated, it can be con-cluded that it is a difficult task also for a human raterto determine what is an ambiguity expressed as anegation or an actual negation.9 LimitationsThe most important limitation of this study is the rel-atively low inter-rater agreement, and the fact thatmost of the sentences were rated by a person whodid not have a medical education.
The lack of medi-cal knowledge may have lead to mistakes when clas-sifying the test data and could probably also partlyexplain the low inter-rater agreement.Another limitation is that errors in the module forselecting sentences lead to that a few test sentencesdid not contain a symptom, disease or equivalent.Consequently, these sentences had to be filtered outmanually.As in the study by Chapman et al (2001a), noanalysis has been made of the occurrences of nega-tions that stretch over sentence boundaries.10 Future workTo automatically distinguish an ambiguity from anegation is not always trivial.
However, the er-rors originating from the other error types mentionedcould be limited through the use of more advancednatural language processing methods.
The caseswhere the phrase icke does not trigger a negation,could probably be detected by a simple regular ex-pression rule.
Which meaning of the phrase utanthat is intended could perhaps be detected by the ma-chine learning methods used by Goldin and Chap-man (2003).
A list of conjunctions that limit thescope of the negations, as in NegEx version 2, couldalso be used to increase the precision, and a similarmethod could be used to detect when the propositionis negated in a conditional phrase.It would also be interesting to use the completelist of negation triggers that was constructed forthis study, instead of limiting the size to that ofthe NegEx trigger list, and to evaluate this list ona larger test set.
This evaluation could also deter-mine whether there are any common Swedish nega-tion triggers that were not obtained by translating theEnglish trigger list.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank my supervisors Hercules Dalia-nis and Gunnar Nilsson for valuable comments onthis paper, and specifically Gunnar for the help withthe classification of the sentences.
I would alsolike to thank Birgitta Melin Skeppstedt for initialhelp with the statistical calculations and SumithraVelupillai for the support on the early stages of the20work.
Many thanks also to the three anonymous re-viewers of the paper.ReferencesOlivier Bodenreider.
2004.
The unified medical lan-guage system (umls): integrating biomedical terminol-ogy.
Nucleic Acids Res, 1;32(Database issue).Wendy W Chapman, Will Bridewell, Paul Hanbury, Gre-gory F. Cooper, and Bruce G. Buchanan.
2001a.
Eval-uation of negation phrases in narrative clinical reports.Proc AMIA Symp, pages 105?109.Wendy W. Chapman, Will Bridewell, Paul Hanbury, Gre-gory F. Cooper, and Bruce G. Buchanan.
2001b.
Asimple algorithm for identifying negated findings anddiseases in discharge summaries.
J Biomed Inform,34(5):301?310, Oct.David Crystal.
1997.
The Cambridge encyclopedia oflanguage.
Cambridge University Press, second edi-tion.O?sten Dahl.
1982.
Grammatik.
Studentlitteratur.Hercules Dalianis, Martin Hassel, and Sumithra Velupil-lai.
2009.
The Stockholm EPR Corpus - Charac-teristics and Some Initial Findings.
In Proceedingsof ISHIMR 2009, Evaluation and implementation ofe-health and health information initiatives: interna-tional perspectives.
14th International Symposium forHealth Information Management Research, Kalmar,Sweden, pages 243?249.Ilya M. Goldin and Wendy W. Chapman.
2003.
Learn-ing to detect negation with ?not?
in medical texts.
ACMSIGIR ?03 Workshop on Text Analysis and Search forBioinformatics: Participant Notebook, Acknowledge-ments Toronto, Canada: Association for ComputingMachinery;.Philip Holmes and Ian Hinchliffe.
2008.
Swedish: AnEssential grammar.
Routledge.Lior Rokach, Roni Romano, and Oded Maimon.
2008.Negation recognition in medical narrative reports.
In-formation Retrieval, 11(6):499?538, December.Peter Sells.
2000.
Negation in Swedish: Where it?snot at.
In Online Proceedings of the LFG-00 Con-ference.
Stanford: CSLI Publications.
(At http://csli-publications.stanford.edu/LFG/5/lfg00.html).Jan Svartvik and Olof Sager.
1996.
Engelsk universitets-grammatik.
Liber.21
