Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Creating Speech and Language Data with Amazon?s Mechanical Turk, pages 188?194,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsMeasuring Transitivity Using Untrained AnnotatorsNitin Madnania,b Jordan Boyd-Grabera Philip Resnika,caInstitute for Advanced Computer StudiesbDepartment of Computer SciencecDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Maryland, College Park{nmadnani,jbg,resnik}@umiacs.umd.eduAbstractHopper and Thompson (1980) defined a multi-axistheory of transitivity that goes beyond simple syn-tactic transitivity and captures how much ?action?takes place in a sentence.
Detecting these featuresrequires a deep understanding of lexical semanticsand real-world pragmatics.
We propose two gen-eral approaches for creating a corpus of sentenceslabeled with respect to the Hopper-Thompson transi-tivity schema using Amazon Mechanical Turk.
Bothapproaches assume no existing resources and incor-porate all necessary annotation into a single system;this is done to allow for future generalization to otherlanguages.
The first task attempts to use language-neutral videos to elicit human-composed sentenceswith specified transitivity attributes.
The second taskuses an iterative process to first label the actors andobjects in sentences and then annotate the sentences?transitivity.
We examine the success of these tech-niques and perform a preliminary classification ofthe transitivity of held-out data.Hopper and Thompson (1980) created a multi-axis the-ory of Transitivity1 that describes the volition of the sub-ject, the affectedness of the object, and the duration of theaction.
In short, this theory goes beyond the simple gram-matical notion of transitivity (whether verbs take objects?
transitive ?
or not ?
intransitive) and captures howmuch ?action?
takes place in a sentence.
Such notions ofTransitivity are not apparent from surface features alone;identical syntactic constructions can have vastly differentTransitivity.
This well-established linguistic theory, how-ever, is not useful for real-world applications without aTransitivity-annotated corpus.Given such a substantive corpus, conventional machinelearning techniques could help determine the Transitivityof verbs within sentences.
Transitivity has been found toplay a role in what is called ?syntactic framing,?
whichexpresses implicit sentiment (Greene and Resnik, 2009).1We use capital ?T?
to differentiate from conventional syntactic tran-sitivity throughout the paper.In these contexts, the perspective or sentiment of thewriter is reflected in the constructions used to expressideas.
For example, a less Transitive construction mightbe used to deflect responsibility (e.g.
?John was killed?vs.
?Benjamin killed John?
).In the rest of this paper, we review the Hopper-Thompson transitivity schema and propose two relativelylanguage-neutral methods to collect Transitivity ratings.The first asks humans to generate sentences with de-sired Transitivity characteristics.
The second asks hu-mans to rate sentences on dimensions from the Hopper-Thompson schema.
We then discuss the difficulties ofcollecting such linguistically deep data and analyze theavailable results.
We then pilot an initial classifier on theHopper-Thompson dimensions.1 TransitivityTable 1 shows the subset of the Hopper-Thompson di-mensions of Transitivity used in this study.
We excludednoun-specific aspects as we felt that these were well cov-ered by existing natural language processing (NLP) ap-proaches (e.g.
whether the object / subject is person, ab-stract entity, or abstract concept is handled well by exist-ing named entity recognition systems) and also excludedaspects which we felt had significant overlap with thedimensions we were investigating (e.g.
affirmation andmode).We also distinguished the original Hopper-Thompson?Affectedness?
aspect into separate ?Benefit?
and?Harm?
components, as we suspect that these data willbe useful to other applications such as sentiment analy-sis.We believe that these dimensions of transitivity aresimple and intuitive enough that they can be understoodand labeled by the people on Amazon Mechanical Turk,a web service.
Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) allowsindividuals to post jobs on MTurk with a set fee that arethen performed by workers on the Internet.
MTurk con-nects workers to people with tasks and handles the coor-dination problems of payment and transferring data.188Kinesis Sentences where movement happens are perceived to be more Transitive.
?Sue jumped out of an airplane?
vs. ?The corporation jumped to a silly conclusion.
?Punctuality Sentences where the action happens quickly are perceived to be more Transitive.
?She touched her ID to the scanner to enter?
vs. ?I was touched by how much she helped me.
?Mode Sentences with no doubt about whether the action happened are perceived to be more Transitive.
?Bob was too busy to fix the drain?
vs. ?Bob fixed the drain.
?Affectedness Sentences where the object is more affected by the action are perceived to be more Transitive.
?The St. Bernard saved the climber?
vs. ?Melanie looked at the model.
?Volition Sentences where the actor chose to perform the action are perceived to be more Transitive.
?Paul jumped out of the bushes and startled his poor sister?
vs. ?The picture startled George.
?Aspect Sentences where the action is done to completion are perceived to be more Transitive.
?Walter is eating the hamburger?
vs. ?Walter ate the pudding up.
?Table 1: The Hopper-Thompson dimensions of transitivity addressed in this paper.
In experiments, ?Affectedness?
was divided into?Harm?
and ?Benefit.
?2 ExperimentsOur goal is to create experiments for MTurk that will pro-duce a large set of sentences with known values of Tran-sitivity.
With both experiments, we design the tasks tobe as language independent as possible, thus not depend-ing on language-specific preprocessing tools.
This allowsthe data collection approach to be replicated in other lan-guages.2.1 ElicitationThe first task is not corpus specific, and requires nolanguage-specific resources.
We represent verbs usingvideos (Ma and Cook, 2009).
This also provides a formof language independent sense disambiguation.
We dis-play videos illustrating verbs (Figure 1) and ask users onMTurk to identify the action and give nouns that can dothe action and ?
in a separate task ?
the nouns that theaction can be done to.
For quality control, Turkers mustmatch a previous Turker?s response for one of their an-swers (a la the game show ?Family Feud?
).Figure 1: Stills from three videos depicting the verbs ?receive,??hear,?
and ?help.
?We initially found that subjects had difficulty distin-guishing what things could do the action (subjects) vs.what things the action could be done to (objects).
In or-der to suggest the appropriate syntactic frame, we usejavascript to form their inputs into protosentences as theytyped.
For example, if they identified an action as ?pick-ing?
and suggested ?fruit?
as a possible object, the pro-tosentence ?it is picking fruit?
is displayed below theirinput (Figure 2).
This helped ensure consistent answers.The subject and object tasks were done separately, andfor the object task, users were allowed to say that thereis nothing the action can be done to (for example, for anintransitive verb).Figure 2: A screenshot of a user completing a task to find ob-jects of a particular verb, where the verb is represented by afilm.
After the user has written a verb and a noun, a protosen-tence is formed and shown to ensure that the user is using thewords in the appropriate roles.These subjects and objects we collected were then usedas inputs for a second task.
We showed workers videoswith potential subjects and objects and asked them tocreate pairs of sentences with opposite Transitivity at-tributes.
For example, Write a sentence where the thingto which the action is done benefits and Write a sentencewhere the thing to which the action is done is not affectedby the action.
For both sides of the Transitivity dimen-sion, we allowed users to say that writing such a sentenceis impossible.
We discuss the initial results of this task inSection 3.2.2 AnnotationOur second task?one of annotation?depends on havinga corpus available in the language of interest.
For con-189creteness and availability, we use Wikipedia, a free mul-tilingual encyclopedia.
We extract a large pool of sen-tences from Wikipedia containing verbs of interest.
Weapply light preprocessing to remove long, unclear (e.g.starting with a pronoun), or uniquely Wikipedian sen-tences (e.g.
very short sentences of the form ?See Listof Star Trek Characters?).
We construct tasks, each for asingle verb, that ask users to identify the subject and ob-ject for the verb in randomly selected sentences.2 Userswere prompted by an interactive javascript guide (Fig-ure 3) that instructed them to click on the first word of thesubject (or object) and then to click on the last word thatmade up the subject (or object).
After they clicked, a textbox was automatically populated with their answer; thisdecreased errors and made the tasks easier to finish.
Forquality control, each HIT has a simple sentence wheresubject and object were already determined by the au-thors; the user must match the annotation on that sentencefor credit.
We ended up rejecting less than one percent ofsubmitted hits.Figure 3: A screenshot of the subject identification task.
Theuser has to click on the phrase that they believe is the subject.Once objects and subjects have been identified, otherusers rate the sentence?s Transitivity by answering thefollowing questions like, where $VERB represents theverb of interest, $SUBJ is its subject and $OBJ is its ob-ject3:?
Aspect.
After reading this sentence, do you knowthat $SUBJ is done $VERBing??
Affirmation.
From reading the sentence, how cer-tain are you that $VERBing happened??
Benefit.
How much did $OBJ benefit??
Harm.
How much was $OBJ harmed??
Kinesis.
Did $SUBJ move??
Punctuality.
If you were to film $SUBJ?s act of$VERBing in its entirety, how long would the moviebe??
Volition.
Did the $SUBJ make a conscious choiceto $VERB?The answers were on a scale of 0 to 4 (higher num-bers meant the sentence evinced more of the property in2Our goal of language independence and the unreliable correspon-dence between syntax and semantic roles precludes automatic labelingof the subjects and objects.3These questions were developed using Greene and Resnik?s (2009)surveys as a foundation.question), and each point in the scale had a description toanchor raters and to ensure consistent results.2.3 RewardsTable 2 summarizes the rewards for the tasks used inthese experiments.
Rewards were set at the minimal ratethat could attract sufficient interest from users.
For the?Video Elicitation?
task, where users wrote sentenceswith specified Transitivity properties, we also offeredbonuses for clever, clear sentences.
However, this wasour least popular task, and we struggled to attract users.3 Results and Discussion3.1 Creative but Unusable Elicitation ResultsWe initially thought that we would have difficulty coax-ing users to provide full sentences.
This turned out notto be the case.
We had no difficulty getting (very imag-inative) sentences, but the sentences were often incon-sistent with the Transitivity aspects we are interested in.This shows both the difficulty of writing concise instruc-tions for non-experts and the differences between every-day meanings of words and their meaning in linguisticcontexts.For example, the ?volitional?
elicitation task askedpeople to create sentences where the subject made a con-scious decision to perform the action.
In the cases wherewe asked users to create sentences where the subject didnot make a conscious decision to perform an action, al-most all of the sentences created by users focused on sen-tences where a person (rather than employ other tacticssuch as using a less individuated subject, e.g.
replacing?Bob?
with ?freedom?)
was performing the action andwas coerced into doing the action.
For example:?
Sellers often give gifts to their clients when they aretrying to make up for a wrongdoing.?
A man is forced to search for his money.?
The man, after protesting profusely, picked an exer-cise class to attend?
The vegetarian Sherpa had to eat the pepperoni pizzaor he would surely have died.While these data are likely still interesting for other pur-poses, their biased distribution is unlikely to be useful forhelping identify whether an arbitrary sentence in a textexpresses the volitional Transitivity attribute.
The usersprefer to have an animate agent that is compelled to takethe action rather than create sentences where the actionhappens accidentally or is undertaken by an abstract orinanimate actor.Similarly, for the aspect dimension, many users simplychose to represent actions that had not been completed190Task Questions / Hit Pay Repetition Tasks TotalVideo Object 5 0.04 5 10 $2.00Video Subject 5 0.04 5 10 $2.00Corpus Object 10 0.03 5 50 $7.50Corpus Subject 10 0.03 5 50 $7.50Video Elicitation 5 0.10 2 70 $14.00Corpus Annotation 7 0.03 3 400 $36.00Total $69.00Table 2: The reward structure for the tasks presented in this paper (not including bonuses or MTurk overhead).
?Video Subject?
and?Video Object?
are where users were presented with a video and supplied the subjects and objects of the depicted actions.
?CorpusSubject?
and ?Corpus Object?
are the tasks where users identified the subject and objects of sentences from Wikipedia.
?VideoElicitation?
refers to the task where users were asked to write sentences with specified Transitivity properties.
?Corpus Annotation?is where users are presented with sentences with previously identified subjects and objects and must rate various dimensions ofTransitivity.using the future tense.
For the kinesis task, users dis-played amazing creativity in inventing situations wheremovement was correlated with the action.
Unfortunately,as before, these data are not useful in generating predic-tive features for capturing the properties of Transitivity.We hope to improve experiments and instructions tobetter align everyday intuitions with the linguistic proper-ties of interest.
While we have found that extensive direc-tions tend to discourage users, perhaps there are ways in-crementally building or modifying sentences that wouldallow us to elicit sentences with the desired Transitivityproperties.
This is discussed further in the conclusion,Section 4.3.2 Annotation TaskFor the annotation task, we observed that users often hada hard time keeping their focus on the words in questionand not incorporating additional knowledge.
For exam-ple, for each of the following sentences:?
Bonosus dealt with the eastern cities so harshly thathis severity was remembered centuries later .?
On the way there, however, Joe and Jake pick an-other fight .?
The Black Sea was a significant naval theatre ofWorld War I and saw both naval and land battlesduring World War II .?
Bush claimed that Zubaydah gave information thatlead to al Shibh ?s capture .some users said that the objects in bold were greatlyharmed, suggesting that users felt even abstract conceptscould be harmed in these sentences.
A rigorous inter-pretation of the affectedness dimension would argue thatthese abstract concepts were incapable of being harmed.We suspect that the negative associations (severity, fight,battles, capture) present in this sentence are causing usersto make connections to harm, thus creating these ratings.Similarly, world knowledge flavored other questions,such as kinesis, where users were able to understand fromcontext that the person doing the action probably movedat some point near the time of the event, even if move-ment wasn?t a part of the act of, for example, ?calling?
or?loving.
?3.3 Quantitative ResultsFor the annotation task, we were able to get consistentratings of transitivity.
Table 3 shows the proportion ofsentences where two or more annotators agreed on thea Transitivity label of the sentences for that dimension.All of the dimensions were significantly better than ran-dom chance agreement (0.52); the best was harm, whichhas an accessible, clear, and intuitive definition, and theworst was kinesis, which was more ambiguous and proneto disagreement among raters.Dimension Sentenceswith AgreementHARM 0.87AFFIRMATION 0.86VOLITION 0.86PUNCTUALITY 0.81BENEFIT 0.81ASPECT 0.80KINESIS 0.70Table 3: For each of the dimensions of transitivity, the propor-tion of sentences where at least two of three raters agreed on thelabel.
Random chance agreement is 0.52.Figure 4 shows a distribution for each of the Transitiv-ity data on the Wikipedia corpus.
These data are consis-tent with what one would expect from random sentencesfrom an encyclopedic dataset; most of the sentences en-191Median ScoreCount050100150200250050100150200250AFFIRMATIONKINESIS0 1 2 3 4ASPECTPUNCTUALITY0 1 2 3 4BENEFITVOLITIONALITY0 1 2 3 4HARM0 1 2 3 4Figure 4: Histograms of median scores from raters by Transitivity dimension.
Higher values represent greater levels of Transitivity.code truthful statements, most actions have been com-pleted, most objects are not affected, most events are overa long time span, and there is a bimodal distribution overvolition.
One surprising result is that for kinesis thereis a fairly flat distribution.
One would expect a largerskew toward non-kinetic words.
Qualitative analysis ofthe data suggest that raters used real-world knowledge toassociate motion with the context of actions (even if mo-tion is not a part of the action), and that raters were lessconfident about their answers, prompting more hedgingand a flat distribution.3.4 Predicting TransitivityWe also performed an set of initial experiments to investi-gate our ability to predict Transitivity values for held outdata.
We extracted three sets of features from the sen-tences: lexical features, syntactic features, and featuresderived from WordNet (Miller, 1990).Lexical Features A feature was created for each wordin a sentence after being stemmed using the Porter stem-mer (Porter, 1980).Syntactic Features We parsed each sentence using theStanford Parser (Klein and Manning, 2003) and usedheuristics to identify cases where the main verb is tran-sitive, where the subject is a nominalization (e.g.
?run-ning?
), or whether the sentence is passive.
If any of theseconstructions appear in the sentence, we generate a corre-sponding feature.
These represent features identified byGreene and Resnik (2009).WordNet Features For each word in the sentence, weextracted all the possible senses for each word.
If anypossible sense was a hyponym (i.e.
an instance of) oneof: artifact, living thing, abstract entity, location, or food,we added a feature corresponding to that top level synset.For example, the string ?Lincoln?
could be an instanceof both a location (Lincoln, Nebraska) and a living thing(Abe Lincoln), so a feature was added for both the loca-tion and living thing senses.
In addition to these noun-based features, features were added for each of the pos-sible verb frames allowed by each of a word?s possiblesenses (Fellbaum, 1998).At first, we performed simple 5-way classification andfound that we could not beat the most frequent class base-line for any dimension.
We then decided to simplify theclassification task to make binary predictions of low-vs-high instead of fine gradations along the particular di-mension.
To do this, we took all the rated sentences foreach of the seven dimensions and divided the ratings intolow (ratings of 0-1) and high (ratings of 2-4) values forthat dimension.
Table 4 shows the results for these bi-nary classification experiments using different classifiers.All of the classification experiments were conducted us-ing the Weka machine learning toolkit (Hall et al, 2009)and used 10-fold stratified cross validation.Successfully rating Transitivity requires knowledgebeyond individual tokens.
For example, consider kine-sis.
Judging kinesis requires lexical semantics to realizewhether a certain actor is capable of movement, pragmat-ics to determine if the described situation permits move-ment, and differentiating literal and figurative movement.One source of real-world knowledge is WordNet;adding some initial features from WordNet appears tohelp aid some of these classifications.
For example, clas-sifiers trained on the volitionality data were not able todo better than the most frequent class baseline before theaddition of WordNet-based features.
This is a reasonableresult, as WordNet features help the algorithm generalizewhich actors are capable of making decisions.192Dimension MakeupClassifier AccuracyBaseline NB VP SVM-WN +WN -WN +WN -WN +WNHARM 269/35 88.5 83.9 84.9 87.2 87.8 88.5 88.5AFFIRMATION 380/20 95.0 92.5 92.0 94.3 95.0 95.0 95.0VOLITION 209/98 68.1 66.4 69.4 67.1 73.3 68.1 68.1PUNCTUALITY 158/149 51.5 59.6 61.2 57.0 59.6 51.5 51.5BENEFIT 220/84 72.4 69.1 65.1 73.4 71.4 72.4 72.4ASPECT 261/46 85.0 76.5 74.3 81.1 84.7 85.0 85.0KINESIS 160/147 52.1 61.2 61.2 56.4 60.9 52.1 52.1Table 4: The results of preliminary binary classification experiments for predicting various transitivity dimensions using differentclassifiers such as Naive Bayes (NB), Voted Perceptron (VP) and Support Vector Machines (SVM).
Classifier accuracies for twosets of experiments are shown: without WordNet features (-WN) and with WordNet features (+WN).
The baseline simply predictsthe most frequent class.
For each dimension, the split between low Transitivity (rated 0-1) and high Transitivity (rated 2-4) is shownunder the ?Makeup?
column.
All reported accuracies are using 10-fold stratified cross validation.4 ConclusionWe began with the goal of capturing a subtle linguisticproperty for which annotated datasets were not available.We created a annotated dataset of 400 sentences takenfrom the real-word dataset Wikipedia annotated for sevendifferent Transitivity properties.
Users were able to giveconsistent answers, and we collected results in a man-ner that is relatively language independent.
Once we ex-pand and improve this data collection scheme for English,we hope to perform similar data collection in other lan-guages.
We have available the translated versions of thequestions used in this study for Arabic and German.Our elicitation task was not as successful as we hadhoped.
We learned that while we could form tasks usingeveryday language that we thought captured these sub-tle linguistic properties, we also had many unspoken as-sumptions that the creative workers on MTurk did notnecessarily share.
As we articulated these assumptionsin increasingly long instruction sets to workers, the sheersize of the instructions began to intimidate and scare offworkers.While it seems unlikely we can strike a balance thatwill give us the answers we want with the elegant instruc-tions that workers need to feel comfortable for the tasksas we currently defined them, we hope to modify the taskto embed further linguistic assumptions.
For example, wehope to pilot another version of the elicitation task whereworkers modify an existing sentence to change one Tran-sitivity dimension.
Instead of reading and understandinga plodding discussion of potentially irrelevant details, theuser can simply see a list of sentence versions that are notallowed.Our initial classification results suggest that we do notyet have enough data to always detect these Transitiv-ity dimensions from unlabeled text or that our algorithmsare using features that do not impart enough information.It is also possible that using another corpus might yieldgreater variation in Transitivity that would aid classifica-tion; Wikipedia by design attempts to keep a neutral toneand eschews the highly charged prose that would containa great deal of Transitivity.Another possibility is that, instead of just the Transi-tivity ratings alone, tweaks to the data collection processcould also help guide classification algorithms (Zaidan etal., 2008).
Thus, instead of clicking on a single annota-tion label in our current data collection process, Turkerswould click on a data label and the word that most helpedthem make a decision.Our attempts to predict Transitivity are not exhaus-tive, and there are a number of reasonable algorithmsand resources which could also be applied to the prob-lem; for example, one might expect semantic role label-ing or sense disambiguation to possibly aid the predictionof Transitivity.
Determining which techniques are effec-tive and the reasons why they are effective would aid notjust in predicting Transitivity, which we believe to be aninteresting problem, but also in understanding Transitiv-ity.Using services like MTurk allows us to tighten the loopbetween data collection, data annotation, and machinelearning and better understand difficult problems.
Wehope to refine the data collection process to provide moreconsistent results on useful sentences, build classifiers,and extract features that are able to discover the Transi-tivity of unlabeled text.
We believe that our efforts willhelp cast an interesting aspect of theoretical linguisticsinto a more pragmatic setting and make it accessible foruse in more practical problems like sentiment analysis.ReferencesC.
Fellbaum, 1998.
WordNet : An Electronic Lexi-cal Database, chapter A semantic network of English193verbs.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Stephan Greene and Philip Resnik.
2009.
More thanwords: Syntactic packaging and implicit sentiment.
InConference of the North American Chapter of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages 503?511.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Peter Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.2009.
The WEKA Data Mining Software: An Update.SIGKDD Explorations, 11(1).Paul J. Hopper and Sandra A. Thompson.
1980.Transitivity in grammar and discourse.
Language,(56):251?299.Dan Klein and Christopher D. Manning.
2003.
Accu-rate unlexicalized parsing.
In Proceedings of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 423?430.Xiaojuan Ma and Perry R. Cook.
2009.
How well dovisual verbs work in daily communication for youngand old adults?
In international conference on Humanfactors in computing systems, pages 361?364.George A. Miller.
1990.
Nouns in WordNet: A lexicalinheritance system.
International Journal of Lexicog-raphy, 3(4):245?264.M.
F. Porter.
1980.
An algorithm for suffix stripping.Program, 14(3):130?137.Omar F. Zaidan, Jason Eisner, and Christine Piatko.2008.
Machine learning with annotator rationalesto reduce annotation cost.
In Proceedings of theNIPS*2008 Workshop on Cost Sensitive Learning,Whistler, BC, December.
10 pages.194
