Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 1?5,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic conjugation and identification of regular and irregular verbneologisms in SpanishLuz Rello and Eduardo BasterrecheaMolino de Ideas s.a.Nanclares de Oca, 1FMadrid, 28022, Spain{lrello, ebaste}@molinodeideas.esAbstractIn this paper, a novel system for the automaticidentification and conjugation of Spanish verbneologisms is presented.
The paper describesa rule-based algorithm consisting of six stepswhich are taken to determine whether a newverb is regular or not, and to establish the rulesthat the verb should follow in its conjugation.The method was evaluated on 4,307 new verbsand its performance found to be satisfactoryboth for irregular and regular neologisms.
Thealgorithm also contains extra rules to cater forverb neologisms in Spanish that do not exist asyet, but are inferred to be possible in light ofexisting cases of new verb creation in Spanish.1 IntroductionThis paper presents a new method consisting of a setof modules which are implemented as part of a freeonline conjugator called Onoma1.The novelty of this system lies in its ability toidentify and conjugate existing verbs and potentialnew verbs in Spanish with a degree of coveragethat cannot completely be achieved by other ex-isting conjugators that are available.
Other exist-ing systems do not cope well with the productivelyrich word formation processes that apply to Spanishverbs and lead to complexities in their inflectionalforms that can present irregularities.
The operationof these processes mean that each Spanish verb cancomprise 135 different forms, including compoundverb forms.1Onoma can be accessed at http://conjugador.onoma.esSeveral researchers have developed tools andmethods related to Spanish verbs.
These includemorphological processors (Tzoukermann and Liber-man, 1990), (Santana et al, 1997), (Santana et al,2002), semantic verb classification (Esteve Ferrer,2004) or verb sense disambiguation (Lapata andBrew, 2004).
Nevertheless, to our knowledge, oursis the first attempt to automatically identify, classifyand conjugate new Spanish verbs.Our method identifies new and existing Spanishverbs and categorises them into seven classes: oneclass for regular verbs and six classes of irregularverbs depending on the type of the irregularity rulewhose operation produced it.
This algorithm is im-plemented by means of six modules or transducerswhich process each new infinitive form and classifythe neologism.
Once the new infinitive is classified,it is conjugated by the system using a set of highaccuracy conjugation rules according to its class.One of the advantages of this procedure is thatonly very little information about the new infinitiveform is required.
The knowledge needed is exclu-sively of a formal kind.
Extraction of this informa-tion relies on the implementation and use of two ex-tra modules: one to detect Spanish syllables, and theother to split the verb into its root and morphologicalaffixes.In cases where the neologism is not an infinitiveform, but a conjugated one, the system generates ahypothetical infinitive form that the user can corrob-orate as a legitimate infinitive.Given that the transducers used in this systemare easy to learn and remember, the method can beemployed as a pedagogic tool itself by students of1Spanish as a foreign language.
It helps in the learn-ing of the Spanish verb system since currently ex-isting methods (e.g.
(Puebla, 1995), (Gomis, 1998),(Mateo, 2008)) do not provide guidance on the ques-tion of whether verbs are regular or irregular.
Thisis due to the fact that our method can identify thenature of any possible verb by reference only to itsinfinitive form.
The application of other kinds ofknowledge about the verb to this task are currentlybeing investigated to deal with those rare cases inwhich reference to the infinitive form is insufficientfor making this classification.This study first required an analysis of the exist-ing verb paradigms used in dictionary construction(DRAE, 2001) followed by the detailed examinationof new verbs?
conjugations (Gomis, 1998), (Santanaet al, 2002), (Mateo, 2008) compiled in a databasecreated for that purpose.
For the design of the algo-rithm, in order to validate the rules and patterns, anerror-driven approach was taken.The remainder of the paper is structured as fol-lows: section 2 presents a description of the cor-pora used.
In Section 3, the different word formationprocesses that apply to Spanish verbs are described,while Section 4 is devoted to the detailed descriptionof the rules used by the system to classify the neolo-gisms, which are evaluated in Section 5.
Finally, inSection 6 we draw the conclusions.2 DataTwo databases were used for the modeling pro-cess.
The first (named the DRAE Verb ConjugationDatabase (DRAEVC-DB)) is composed of all theparadigms of the verbs contained in the 22nd editionof the Dictionary of the Royal Spanish Academy(DRAE, 2001).
This database contains 11,060 exist-ing Spanish verbs and their respective conjugations.The second database (named the MolinoIdeas VerbConjugation Database (MIVC-DB)), created for thispurpose, contains 15,367 verbs.
It includes all theverbs found in the DRAE database plus 4,307 con-jugated Spanish verbs that are not registered in theRoyal Spanish Academy Dictionary (DRAE, 2001),which are found in standard and colloquial Spanishand whose use is frequent on the web.The MIVC-DB contains completely conjugatedverbs occurring in the Spanish Wikipedia and inCorpus Number of verbsDRAE 11,060MolinoIdeas 15,367Table 1: Corpora used.a collection of 3 million journalistic articles fromnewspapers in Spanish from America and Spain2.Verbs which do not occur in the Dictionary of theRoyal Spanish Academy (DRAE, 2001) are consid-ered neologisms in this study.
Thus 4,307 of the15,367 verbs in the MIVC-DB are neologisms.
Theparadigms of the new verbs whose complete con-jugation was not found in the sources were auto-matically computed and manually revised in orderto ensure their accuracy.
The result of this semi-automatic process is a database consisting only ofattested Spanish verbs.3 Creativity in Spanish verbsThe creation of new verbs in Spanish is especiallyproductive due to the rich possibilities of the diversemorphological schema that are applied to create ne-ologisms (Almela, 1999).New Spanish verbs are derived by two means: ei-ther (1) morphological processes applied to exist-ing words or (2) incorporating foreign verbs, suchas digitalizar from to digitalize.Three morphological mechanisms can be distin-guished: prefixation, suffixation and parasynthe-sis.
Through prefixation a bound morpheme is at-tached to a previously existing verb.
The mostcommon prefixes used for new verbs found in ourcorpus are the following: a- (abastillar), des- (de-sagrupar), inter- (interactuar), pre- (prefabricar),re- (redecorar), sobre- (sobretasar), sub- (subval-uar) and super- (superdotar).
On the other hand,the most frequent suffixes in Spanish new verbs are-ar (palar), -ear (panear), -ificar (cronificar) and -izar (superficializar).
Finally, parasynthesis occurswhen the suffixes are added in combination with aprefix (bound morpheme).
Although parasynthesisis rare in other grammatical classes, it is quite rele-vant in the creation of new Spanish verbs (Serrano,2The newspapers with mayor representation in our corpusare: El Pa?
?s, ABC, Marca, Pu?blico, El Universal, Clar?
?n, ElMundo and El Norte de Castilla21999).
The most common prefixes are -a or -en inconjunction with the suffixes -ar, -ear, -ecer and -izar (acuchillear, enmarronar, enlanguidecer, aban-dalizar).In this paper, the term derivational base is usedto denote the immediate constituent to which a mor-phological process is applied to form a verb.
In or-der to obtain the derivational base, it is necessaryto determine whether the last vowel of the base isstressed.
When the vowel is unstressed, it is re-moved from the derivational base while a stressedvowel remains as part of the derivational base.
If aconsonant is the final letter of the derivational baseit remains a part of it as well.4 Classifying and conjugating new verbsBroadly speaking, the algorithm is implemented bysix transduction modules arranged in a switch struc-ture.
The operation of most of the transducers issimple, though Module 4 is implemented as a cas-cade of transduction modules in which inputs maypotentially be further modified by subsequent mod-ules (5 and 6).The modules were implemented to determine theclass of each neologism.
Depending on the class towhich each verb belongs, a set of rules and patternswill be applied to create its inflected forms.
Theproposed verb taxonomy generated by these trans-ducers is original and was developed in conjunctionwith the method itself.
The group of patterns andrules which affect each verb are detailed in previouswork (Basterrechea and Rello, 2010).
The modulesdescribed below are activated when they receive asinput an existing or new infinitive verb form.
Whenthe infinitive form is not changed by one transducer,it is tested against the next one.
If not adjusted byany transducer, then the new infinitive verb is as-sumed to have a regular conjugation.Module 1: The first transducer checks whetherthe verb form is an auxiliary verb (haber), a copu-lative verb (ser or estar), a monosyllabic verb (ir,dar or ver), a Magnificent verb3, or a prefixed formwhose derivational base matches one of these afore-mentioned types of verbs.
If the form matches one3There are 14 so-called Magnificent verbs: traer, valer, salir,tener, venir, poner, hacer, decir, poder, querer, saber, caber, an-dar and -ducir (Basterrechea and Rello, 2010).of these cases, the verb is irregular and will undergothe rules and patterns of its own class.
(Basterrecheaand Rello, 2010).Module 2: If the infinitive or prefixed infinitiveform finishes in -quirir (adquirir) or belongs to thelist: dormir, errar, morir, oler, erguir or desosar, theform is recognized as an irregular verb and will beconjugated using the irregularity rules which oper-ate on the root vowel, which can be either diphthon-gized or replaced by another vowel (adquiero fromadquirir, duermo and durmio?
from dormir).Module 3: The third transducer identifies whetherthe infinitive form root ends in a vowel.
If the verbbelongs to the second or third conjugation (-er and -ir endings) (leer, o?
?r), it is an irregular verb, while ifthe verb belongs to the first conjugation (-ar ending)then it will only be irregular if its root ends with an-u or -i (criar, actuar).
For the verbs assigned to thefirst conjugation, diacritic transduction rules are ap-plied to their inflected forms (cr?
?o from criar, actu?ofrom actuar); in the case of verbs assigned to thesecond and third conjugations, the alterations per-formed on their inflected forms are mainly additionsor subtitutions of letters (leyo?
de leer, oigo de o?
?r).There are some endings such as (-ier, -uer and-iir) which are not found in the MIVC-DB.
In thehypothetical case where they are encountered, theirconjugation would have followed the rules detailedearlier.
Rules facilitating the conjugation of poten-tial but non-existing verbs are included in the algo-rithm.Module 4: When an infinitive root form in thefirst conjugation ends in -c, -z, -g or -gu (secar,trazar, delegar) and in the second and third conju-gation ends in -c, -g, -gu or -qu (conocer, corregir,seguir), that verb is affected by consonantal ortho-graphic adjustments (irregularity rules) in order topreserve its pronunciation (seque?
from secar, trace?from trazar, delegue?
from delegar, conozco fromconocer, corrijo from corregir, sigo from seguir).In case the infinitive root form of the second andthird conjugation ends in -n?
or -ll (tan?er, engullir),the vowel i is removed from some endings of theparadigm following the pattern detailed in (Baster-rechea and Rello, 2010).Verbs undergoing transduction by Module 4 canundergo further modification by Modules 5 and 6.Any infinitive form which failed to meet the trig-3gering conditions set by Modules 1-4 is also testedagainst 5 and 6.Module 5: This module focuses on determiningthe vowel of the infinitive form root and the verb?sderivational base.
If the vowel is e or o in the firstconjugation and the verb derivational base includesdiphthongs ie or ue (helar, contar), or if the vowel ise in the infinitive forms belonging to the second andthird conjugation (servir, herir), then the verb is ir-regular and it is modified by the irregularity ruleswhich perform either a substitution of this vowel(sirvo from servir) or a diphthongization (hielo fromhelar, cuento from contar or hiero from herir).Module 6: Finally, the existence of a diphthong inthe infinitive root is examined (reunir, europeizar).If the infinitive matches the triggering condition forthis transducer, its paradigm is considered irregu-lar and the same irregularity rules from module 3-inserting a written accent in certain inflected forms-are applied (reu?no from reunir, europe?
?zo from eu-ropeizar).Any verb form that fails to meet the triggeringconditions set by any of these six transducers hasregular conjugation.It is assumed that these 6 modules cover the fullrange of both existing and potential verbs in Span-ish.
The modules?
reliability was tested using thefull paradigms of 15,367 verbs.
As noted earlier,there are some irregularity rules in module 3 whichpredict the irregularities of non existing but possibleneologisms in Spanish.
Those rules, in conjunctionwith the rest of the modules, cover the recognitionand conjugation of the potential new verbs.5 EvaluationThe transducers have been evaluated over all theverbs from the DRAEVC-DB and the 4,307 newverbs from MICV-DB.In case a new verb appears which is not similarto the ones contained in our corpus, the transduc-tion rules in Module 3 for non existing but poten-tial verbs in Spanish would be activated, althoughno examples of that type have been encountered inthe test data used here.
As this system is part of thefree online conjugator Onoma, it is constantly beingevaluated on the basis of users?
input.Every time a new infinitive form absent fromVerb neologism Verb neologism Number oftype class neologismsregular regular rules 3,154irregular module 1 rules 27irregular module 2 rules 9irregular module 3 rules 39irregular module 4 rules 945irregular module 5 rules 87irregular module 6 rules 46Total verbneologisms 4,307Table 2: New verbs evaluationMIVC-DB is introduced by the user4, it is automati-cally added to the database.
The system is constantlyupdated since it is revised every time a new irregu-larity is detected by the algorithm.
The goal is toenable future adaptation of the algorithm to newlyencountered phenomena within the language.
So far,non-normative verbs, invented by the users, such asarreburbujear, insomniar, pizzicatear have also beenconjugated by Onoma.Of all the new verbs in MIVC-DB, 3,154 wereregular and 1,153 irregular (see Table 2).
The ma-jority of the irregular neologisms were conjugatedby transducer 4.6 ConclusionsCreativity is a property of human language and theprocessing of instances of linguistic creativity repre-sents one of the most challenging problems in NLP.Creative processes such as word formation affectSpanish verbs to a large extent: more than 50% ofthe actual verbs identified in the data set used tobuild MIVC-DB do not appear in the largest Span-ish dictionary.
The processing of these neologismsposes the added difficulty of their rich inflectionalmorphology which can be also irregular.
Therefore,the automatic and accurate recognition and gener-ation of new verbal paradigms is a substantial ad-vance in neologism processing in Spanish.In future work we plan to create other algorithmsto treat the rest of the open-class grammatical cate-gories and to identify and generate inflections of new4Forms occurring due to typographical errors are not in-cluded.4words not prescribed by dictionaries.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to express or gratitude to the Molinode Ideas s.a. engineering team who have success-fully implemented the method, specially to DanielAyuso de Santos and Alejandro de Pablos Lo?pez.ReferencesRamo?n Almela Pe?rez.
1999.
Procedimientos de for-macio?n de palabras en espan?ol.
Ariel, Barcelona,Espan?a.Eduardo Basterrechea and Luz Rello.
2010.
El verbo enespan?ol.
Construye tu propio verbo.
Molino de Ideas,Madrid, Espan?a.Eva Esteve Ferrer.
2004.
Towards a semantic classifi-cation of Spanish verbs based on subcategorisation in-formation.
Proceedings of the ACL 2004 workshop onStudent research, 13.Pedro Gomis Blanco and Laura Segura.
1998.
Va-deme?cum del verbo espan?ol.
SGEL.
Sociedad GeneralEspan?ola de Librer?
?a, Madrid, Espan?a.Mirella Lapata and Chris Brew.
2004.
Verb class dis-ambiguation using informative priors.
ComputationalLinguistics, 30(1): 45?73.Francis Mateo.
2008.
Bescherelle.
Les verbes espagnols.Hatier, Paris, France.Jorge Puebla Ortega.
1995.
Co?mo conjugar todos losverbos del espan?ol.
Playor, Madrid, Espan?a.Real Academia Espan?ola.
2001.
Diccionario de lalengua espan?ola, 22 edicio?n.
Espasa, Madrid, Espan?a.David Serrano Dolader.
1999.
La derivacio?n verbal yla paras??ntesis.
Grama?tica descriptiva de la lenguaespan?ola, I. Bosque, V. Demonte, (eds.
), (3): 4683-4756.
Real Academia Espan?ola / Espasa, Madrid,Espan?a.Evelyne Tzoukermann and Mark Y. Liberman.
1990.A Finite-State Morphological Processor for Spanish.Proceedings of the 13th conference on Computationallinguistics, (1): 277-282.Octavio Santana Sua?rez, Jose?
Rafael Pe?rez Aguiar, Zeno?nJose?
Herna?ndez Figueroa, Francisco Javier CarrerasRiudavets, Gustavo Rodr?
?guez Rodr??guez.
1997.FLAVER: Flexionador y lematizador automa?tico deformas verbales.
lingu??
?stica espan?ola actual XIX, (2):229-282.
Arco Libros, Madrid, Espan?a.Octavio Santana Sua?rez, Francisco Javier Carreras Riu-davets, Zeno?n Jose?
Herna?ndez Figueroa, Jose?
RafaelPe?rez Aguiar and Gustavo Rodr?
?guez Rodr??guez.2002.
Manual de la conjugacin del espan?ol.
12 790verbos conjugados.
Arco Libros, Madrid, Espan?a.5
