Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Young Investigators Workshop on Computational Approaches to Languages of the Americas,pages 109?116, Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsRecognition and extraction of definitional contexts in Spanish for sketch-ing a lexical networkC?sar Aguilar Olga Acosta Gerardo SierraDepartment of Linguistics Postgraduate School of ComputerScienceLanguage Engineering GroupAutonomous University ofQueretaroUNAM Engineering Institute, UNAMCerro de las Campanas, s/n,Queretaro, MexicoCiudad Universitaria, Mexico City Ciudad Universitaria, Mexico CityCAguilar@iingen.unam.mx OAcostaL@iingen.unam.mx GSierraM@iingen.unam.mxAbstractIn this paper we propose a method to exploit ana-lytical definitions extracted from Spanish corpora,in order to build a lexical network based on the hy-ponymy/hyperonymy,  part/whole  and  attributionrelations.
Our  method  considers  the  followingsteps: (a) the recognition and extraction of defini-tional contexts from specialized documents, (b) theidentification of analytical definitions on these def-initional contexts, using verbal predications, (c) thesyntactic and probabilistic analysis of the associa-tion observed between verbal predication and ana-lytical definitions, (d) the identification of the hy-ponymy/hyperonymy,  part/whole  and  attributionrelations  based on the lexical information that liesbetween  predications  and  definitions  and  othertypes of phrases, in particular prepositional phrasesmapped by the preposition de (Eng.
of/from).1 IntroductionNowadays, the possibility of searching and recog-nizing lexical relations in definitions occurring inspecialized  text  corpora  is  an  important  task  incomputational lexicography and terminology.In  this  sense,  authors  such  as  Vossen  andCopestake (1993), as well as  Wilks, Slator & Gu-thrie (1995) are pioneers in offering a relevant setof experiments and techniques about how to identi-fy hyponymy/hypernymy relations from analyticaldefinitions, taking into account  the underlying as-sociation  that  exists  between  terms  and  genusterms.Complementary to these first attempts for iden-tifying  such  lexical  relations,  Riloff  & Shepherd(2004) argue that while these efforts have been ori-ented  to  extract  lexical  relations  from corpus  ofgeneral  language, it  is  necessary to focus on do-main-specific corpora, in order to obtain a special-ized knowledge that is required for in-depth under-standing of the subject matter.In line with the argument formuled by Riloff &Shepherd,  Buiteelar,  Cimiano & Magnini  (2005)have  proposed  several  methods  for  building  on-tologies from text corpora, priorizing the automaticrecognition  of  syntactic  patterns  that  codifyhyponymy/hyperonymy relations.Following all  these authors,  we sketch here aresearch  project  to  design  a  lexical  network,  fo-cused on classifying scientific and technical con-cepts extracted from Spanish text corpora.
In par-ticular, we obtain these concepts by extracting def-initional contexts (DCs) with terms and definitionsclearly  formulated,  according  to  the  theoreticalframework  developed  by  Sierra,  Alarcon  &Aguilar (2006).After  extracted  these  DCs,  we  propose  amethod to identify lexical relations between termsinserted into the DCs.
The method considers,  onthe one hand, a grammatical analysis for detectingsyntactic  patterns  that  represent  term  and  genusterm, bearing in mind their association through lex-ical relations such as hyponymy/hyperonymy, part/whole or attribution relations.
On the other hand,we proposed a semi-automatic evaluation to deter-mine the degree of accuracy respect to the resultsobtained by our method.The issues that we will deal in this paper are or-ganized as follows: (a) as a starting point, we ex-pose briefly  the  theoretical  framework to  extractDCs from Spanish corpora.
(b) According to thisframework, we describe how analytical definitions109linked to terms can be identified, considering theidentification of verbal  predications  that  functionas connectors between such definitions and terms.
(c) Thus, we offer a probabilistic evaluation for de-termining the degree of association between pre-dications and analytical definitions.
(d) After thisevaluation, we sketch a method for exploiting thisassociation  between  predications  and  definitions,in  order  to  identify  lexical  relations,  specificallyhyponymy/hyperonymy, part/whole and attributionrelations.2 Theoretical framework: DC extractionWe situate our analysis  within the framework ofdefinitional contexts (or DCs) extraction.
Accord-ing to  Sierra  et  al.
(2008),  a  DC is  a  discursivestructure that contains relevant information to de-fine a term.
DCs have at least two constituents: aterm and a definition, and usually linguistic or met-alinguistic  forms,  such  as  verbal  phrases,  typo-graphical  markers  and/or  pragmatic  patterns.
Anexample is:(1) La cuchilla fusible [Term] se define como [VerbalPhrase] un elemento de conexi?n y desconexi?nde circuitos el?ctricos [Definition].
(Engl.
Thefuse-switch disconnector is defined as an ele-ment of connection and disconnection ofelectric circuits).In (1), the term cuchilla flexible is  emphasized bythe use of bold font, and it appears linked with theverbal predication  se define como, and the defini-tion un elemento de conexi?n y desconexi?n de cir-cuitos el?ctricos.
Following to Sierra et al (2008),we  consider  the  term,  the  verbal  phrase  and  thedefinition as the three main units constituting thesyntactic structure of a DC.This  kind of  syntactic  structure  introduces  ananalytical  definition  (in  the  Aristotle's  sense),where  the  genus  term  is  represented  by  a  nounphrase (NP) un elemento and the differentia is rep-resented by a prepositional phrase (PP)  de conex-i?n y desconexi?n de circuitos el?ctricos.In a detailed analysis on these syntactic struc-tures, Aguilar (2009) explains that these structuresare  predicate  phrases  (PrP),  according to  the  de-scription proposed by Bowers (1993, 2001).
A PrPis a phrase mapped by a functional head, and itsgrammatical behavior is similar to other functionalphrases such as Inflexional Phrase (IP) or Comple-ment Phrase (CP).
A graphical tree representationof a PrP is:Figure 1: Tree representation for PrP, according toBowers (1993: 596)The Figure 1 describes the syntactic configurationof a PrP.
We recognise a functional head with thefeature +/- predicative (Pr).
This head maps two sub-jects: a primary subject in the Specifier position ofPrP (represented for a NP); and a secondary sub-ject,  in the Specifier position of verbal phrase orVP (often a NP).
Finally, both subjects, the VP andthe PrP are linked to one or several complements,which assume phrasal representations (e.g.
: NP, IP,CP, and other types of phrases).Based on this description about PrP, Sierra  etal.
(2008) and Aguilar (2009) observed that bothprimary and secondary predications  have a closerelation  with  analytical  definitions  expressed  inspecialized  texts.
Examples  of  this  relation  be-tween PrP and analytical definitions are:(2) [Una computadora [es [un tipo de m?quinaelectr?nica que sirve para hacer operacionesPrP] VP] IP] (Eng.
[A computer [is [a kind ofelectronic machine used to make operationsPrP] VP] IP]).
(3) [Turing [define una computadora [como unmecanismo electr?nico que procesa conjuntosde datos PrP] VP] IP] (Eng.
[Turing [defines acomputer [as a kind of electronic device thatprocesses a set of data PrP] VP] IP]).We observe in (2) a canonical primary predicationwhere  the  subject  una computadora  represents  aterm directly associated to predicate es un tipo dem?quina que...
This predicate introduces an analyt-ical  definition,  conformed  by  a  genus  term110eletronic  machine,  and  the  differentia  que  sirvepara hacer operaciones.
In (3), the predicate comoun  mecanismo  electr?nico...  (Engl.
as  a  kind  ofelectronic  device...)  affects  the secondary subjectuna computadora (Engl.
a computer), in concord-ance with the explanation of Bowers (1993).
Ouranalysis  considers  both  types  of  predications  asregular patterns that codify syntactically sequencesof terms, verbal predications and definitions.3 Searching  analytical  definitions  in  textcorporaWe have adapted the predicative patterns deducedfrom our syntactic analysis, in order to search andfind  (semi-)automatically  analytical  definitionslinked to these patterns.
So, we conducted an ex-periment  of  identification  of  these  definitions  intwo text corpora:?
Linguistic  Corpus  on  Engineering  (orCLI).
The  CLI,  prepared by Medina andothers (2004), is a collection of technicaldocuments in  different  thematic areas  ofengineering, with an extension of 500,000words, approximately.?
Corpus  on  Informatics  for  Spanish  (orCIE).
This corpus was built under the su-pervision of L'Homme and Drouin (2006).The  CIE  compiles several documents re-lated to computer science and   informat-ics.
For our experiment we took a portionof  CIE,  which contains articles extractedfrom Wikipedia.
This portion has an ex-tension of   500,000 words.Following to Aguilar et al (2004) and Sierra et al(2008), we selected a set of verbs that function asheads  of  predicative  patterns  in  Spanish,  takinginto account the distinction between primary andsecondary predications.In the case of primary predication, the analytic-al  definition is  integrated in  a  sequence  Term +Verbal  Predication  +  Definition.
This  definitiondoes not refer to possible author(s) of a definition.An example is:(4) [El apartarrayos Term] [es Verbal Predication] [un dis-positivo Genus Term] [que protege las instalacio-nes contra sobretensiones de origen atmosf?-rico Differentia] (Engl.
[The lightning conductorTerm] [is Verbal Predication] [a device Genus Term] [thatprotects electrical systems against surges ofatmospheric origin Differentia]).Having in mind this sequence, we propose a gram-matical description model for this relation:Table 1: Construction patterns derived from the relationbetween primary predication and analytical definitionDefinition Genus Term DifferentiaAnalytical(PrimaryPredication)NP =  Noun +{AdjP/PP}*CP = Relative Pronoun  +IPPP = Preposition  + NPAdjP = Adjective + NPThe verbs that  operate  as  head of  these  predica-tions are:  referir (to refer to),  representar (to rep-resent),  ser  (to  be)  and  significar (to  signify/tomean).
In contrast,  when a secondary predicationintroduces an analytical definition, this predicationfollows   the  sequence  Author  +  Term + VerbalPredication + Definition, where the Author is equi-valent  to  the  primary subject,  the  Term assumesthe position of secondary subject,  and the defini-tion is introduced after the Verbal Predication.
Inthis  case,  the  adverbial  particle  como (Eng.as/like), or the preposition por (Eng.
for/by) indic-ates the place of the definition.
An example is:(5) [Carlos Godino Author] [define Verbal Predication] [laarquitectura naval Term]  [como la ciencia quese enfoca en la construcci?n de los buques De-finition] (Eng.
[Carlos Godino Author] [definesVerbal Predication] [the naval architecture Term] [asthe science that focuses on the construction ofships Definition])Thus, the formal description of this sequence is:Table 2: Construction patterns derived from the relationbetween secondary predication and analytical definitionDefinition Adverb/PrepositionGenus Term DifferentiaAnalytical(SecondaryPredica-tion)ComoPorNP =  Noun +{AdjP /PP}*CP = Relative Pro-noun  +  IPPP = Preposition  +NPAdjP = Adjective +NPThe verbs linked to secondary predications are: ca-racterizar + como/por (Engl.
to characterize +as/for), comprender + como (Engl.
to comprehend111+ as), concebir + como (Engl.
to conceive + as),conocer + como (Engl.
to know + as), considerar+ como (Engl.
to consider + as), definir + como(Engl.
to define + as), describir + como (Engl.
todefine + as), entender + como (Engl.
to understand+ as) , identificar + como (Engl.
to identify + as)and visualizar + como (Engl.
to visualize + as).In order to recognize these sequences of predic-ations and analytical definitions, we employed asystem developed in Python by Rodr?guez (2004).Broadly speaking, the input for this system is a setof previously delimited text fragments.
The outputis a XML table with a list of patterns, the verb usedfor searching these patterns, and the frequency ofuse in both corpora.4 ResultsOnce  we  accomplished  the  process  of  searchingand  extracting  of  fragments  with  sequences  ofpredication  patterns  of  analytical  definitions,  wedetermined values of precision and recall  for theCLI and CIE corpora based on the real number ofanalytical DCs in the corpus.
This data was deter-mined by a human expert through an exploration inthe  corpora  mentioned  above.
In  table  3  weshowed DC candidates, as well as the real numberof true DCs extracted from these candidates.Thus, from CLI corpora we obtained a total of1686 candidates.
From these candidates, the humanexpert recognized a set of 111 true DCs to analyti-cal  definition  linked  to  primary  predication  pat-terns.
Our recall  was 100% because we obtainedall of the DCs with analytical definitions, but theprecision achieved was very low (6.6%).The main cause about this low precision is dueto the verb ser (Eng.
to be).
The verb ser is highlyproductive in Spanish, however, much of the frag-ments found are not analytical definitions.
In con-trast, from secondary predication patterns, our re-call was 100% and precision 9.4%.
Thus, the CIEcorpora showed measures of  precision and recallhigher than those of CLI corpora because most ofdocuments  were  extracted  from  resources  asWikipedia.
We suppose this factor is related with adefinition scheme more canonical in scientific andtechnical documents.Table 3: Sequence frequencies of predication patternsand analytical definitionsAnalytical Definitions  CLI CIEPrimary PredicationCandidates 1686 494DCs 111 127RecallPrecision100%6.6%100%25.7%Secondary PredicationCandidates 701 61DCs 66 11RecallPrecision100%9.4%100%18.0%We derived a frequency distribution of the verbswith type of predication for CLI and CIE corpora.The table 4 shows the relative frequency of use ofeach  verb  explored.
Most  of  these  verbs  do  nothave been considered in automatic extraction tasksof hyponymy-hyperonymy relations, e.  g.:  Hearst(1992) or Wilks, Slator & Guthrie (1995).Table 4: Frequency distribution of verbal predicate, andits use in analytical definitionsPredication CorporaCLI CIEPrimaryReferir(a)/To refer 0 0.02Representar/To represent 0 0.04Significar/To signify 0 0.03Ser/To be 1 0.91SecondaryCaracterizar/To characterize 0.12 0.18Concebir/To concibe 0.09 0Conocer/To know 0.17 0Considerar/To consider 0.21 0.27Definir/To define 0.27 0.27Describir/To describe 0.03 0.09Entender/To understand 0.06 0.18Identificar/To identify 0.03 0Visualizar/To visualize 0.02 0Once  established  this  distribution,  we  have  ana-lyzed the degree of assurance to find a good candi-date for analytical definitions.
We have applied amethod of conditional probabilities for primary andsecondary predications.
Our conditional probabili-ties are formulated by the hypothesis that the prob-ability (P) of co-occurrence of predications (Pred)linked to analytical definition (AD) is high.
Thus,we  apply  the  following  formula  of  conditionalprobability:P(AD ?
Pred)P(AD|Pred) =  P(Pred)112Taking into account the formula mentioned above,we obtained the following results:Table 5: Conditional probabilities of co-occurrencebetween predications and analytical definitionsPredication CLI CIEPrimaryAnalytical definitions 93% 100%Not-analytical definitions 7% 0%SecondaryAnalytical definitions 95% 100%Not-analytical definitions 5% 0%Therefore, we considered that the possibility toidentify a good candidate of analytical definition ishigh, insofar as we took into account their relation-ship with primary and secondary predications.In  addition,  Alarc?n,  Bach  &  Sierra  (2007),propose a methodology for filtering true DCs froma set of candidates to DCs.
An important advanceprovided for this work is the application of a filterphase that discards those syntactic patterns withouttrue analytical definitions.
For example, if we finda particle as no (Eng.
not) or tampoco (Eng.
either)in the first position before or after of a predication,there is a high probability these pattern do not in-troduce a good analytical definition.
In Table 5 weshowed some results in terms of precision and re-call reported by authors only for analytical defini-tion patterns.Table 6: Precision & recall valuesVerbal pattern Precision RecallConcebir(como)/To conceive(as) 0.67 0.98Definir(como)/To define(as) 0.84 0.99Entender(como)/To understand(as) 0.34 0.94Identificar(como)/To identify(as) 0.31 0.90Significar/To signify 0.29 0.985 Sketching a methodIn this section, we propose a method for recogniz-ing lexical relations from the previous extraction ofDCs.
In particular, we assume that a good way toreach these relations is to improve the syntactic as-sociation observed between predications and ana-lytical definitions inserted into these DCs.This assumption is in line with the methodologyproposed by Buitelaar, Cimiano & Magnini (2005)for building ontologies based on textual informa-tion  obtained  from  corpora.
These  three  authorsconceive a chain of  processes and sub-processes,represented with a layer cake scheme:Figure 2: Ontology learning layer cake (according toBuitelaar, Cimiano & Magnani 2005)Briefly,  in  this  scheme  Buitelaar,  Cimiano  &Magnini establish a sequence of 6 basic tasks fordeveloping a possible ontology.
Thus, the first taskis the identification of a set of specific terms to acertain knowledge domain (in this case, a medicaldomain).
After that, it is necessary to identify syn-onyms related to these terms (e.g., disease/illness).Given both sets of  terms and synonyms, the fol-lowing task is to determine concepts in a formalway.
For  delineating  these  concepts,  in  the  nexttask are deduced lexical relations following lexicalnetworks  formulated  by  WordNet  (Fellbaum1998).Once these lexical relations are established, thesemantic  relations  are  proposed,  keeping  this  inmind,  for  example,  first-order  logic  to  representpredicate-arguments  structures.
The  final  processof this chain is to derive universal rules for build-ing concepts, joining lexical and semantic relationsdeduced previously.Thus, the recognition and extraction of conceptsis  a  step  towards  the  general  goal  proposed  byBuitelaar, Cimiano & Magnini for building ontolo-gies.
For this particular  phase,  our proposal  con-sists  on identifying and extracting conceptual  in-formation through lexical-syntactic patterns as wementioned above.6 Towards the (semi-)automatic identifica-tion of lexical relationsIn agreement with the methodology of  Buitelaar,Cimiano & Magnini mentioned above, we proposeto extract lexical relations from analytical defini-tions for covering the next step about hierarchicalrelations.
Hiponymy/hypernymy  andmeronym/holonymy relations are considered as re-113lations organizing a conceptual space in a hierarch-ical way (Winston, Chaffin & Herrmann 1987).Additionally, our method provides a way to getmore relations from a domain corpus through theapplication of a bootstrapping technique with thegenus terms/wholes set as seed set.?
Hyponymy/hyperonymy relations: Weconsider works such as Hearst (1992), aswell as Wilks, Slator & Guthrie (1995),because  their  methods  allow combininglinguistic and probabilistic criteria.?
Part/whole  relations:  In  this  case,  weconsider  works  such  as  Charniak  &Berland (1999),  as well  as those resultsreported  by  Girju,  Badulescu  &  Mod-olvan (2006).
We propose a method ex-ploiting the pattern with preposition  de,due to its use frequency to link parts andwholes in Spanish.
Table 6 shows exam-ples about meronymy/holonymy relationsusing  this  pattern  compared  with  otherpatterns worked in the literature.Table 7: Number of hits returned by the search en-gine GooglePart Whole X is partof YY hasXX of theYMouse Computer 27360 514 280400Keyboard Computer 60800 64730 1798000Screen Computer 58800 64100 556000?
Attribution  relations: Attribution  rela-tions play an important role in disciplinesinvolved  with  conceptual  representationas artificial intelligence/knowledge repre-sentation,  linguistics  and  psychology(Poesio  &  Almuhareb,  2005).
So,  weconsider  the  work  about  the  automaticextraction  of  attribution  relations  pro-posed  by  Poesio  &  Almuhareb (2004).They used an approach as that proposedby Charniak & Berland (1999) but to ex-tract  attribution  relations  using  the  pat-tern:?the * of the C [is|was]?Here, * represents a potential attribute forthe concept C. In Spanish a common pat-tern to express attribution relations is theuse of the preposition  de, e.g.
:  edad delpaciente (Eng.
age  of  patient/patient'sage),  altura del paciente  (Eng.
height ofthe patient/ patient's height), and so on.Summarizing, our methodology to extract lexicalrelations starts with the extraction of hyponymy-hypernymy relations from analytical DCs.
For thisphase  we  consider  a  lexical-syntactic  approachdue to the regularity of the definition schemes us-ing  predication  patterns  as  those  mentionedabove.Additionally,  we  propose  a  bootstrappingtechnique starting with the set of genus terms as aseedset  to  extract  more  lexical  relations  from adomain corpus.
We use the preposition de to linkgenus term and other potential terms due to its im-portance to produce lexical relations of our inter-est.For example, in a first phase exploring a do-main corpus, a genus term as dilataci?n (Eng.
di-lation)  links  with  a  set  of  two elements  {vena,pupila} (Eng.
{vein, pupil}).
In a next phase, theelement pupila is linked to ojo (Eng.
eye), and soon.
Thus, on the one hand we have two relationsIS-KIND-OF:  dilataci?n de la pupila and  dilat-aci?n de la vena.
On the other hand, we have ameronymy-holonymy relation: pupila-ojo.Integrating the three relations described above,we will  implement  a  lexical  network that  allowsorganizing concepts related to terms.
An exampleof this possible network is:Figure 3: Example of a possible lexical networkIn the figure, we can distinguish a set of sub?termslinked  to  the  main  term  Ojo (Engl.
Eye).
These114sub?terms operate as nodes, and the possible lexic-al relations are branches connected with the mainterm.
Thus, based on a lexical Parth/whole relation,we can infer that  c?rnea  (Eng.
cornea), is a con-stituent  of  eye.
In  contrast,  the  term  enfermedad(Engl.
disease) is an attribute of eye.
Finally, theglaucoma is a type of disease that affects the eyes.7 Work in progress and possible topics ofcollaborationsIn this paper we proposed a method for recogniz-ing lexical relations, taking into account the identi-fication  and  extraction  of  analytical  definitionssituated into DCs in Spanish.
This extraction con-siders verbal predications associated to these defin-itions.
So, in order to explain this extraction, wehave showed a formal syntactic analysis, based onthe idea that  these predications:  (a)  could be de-scribed in terms of predicative phrases, and (b), theassociation  of  predications  and  analytical  defini-tions  has  a  high  frequency of  use  in  specializeddocuments.
For evaluating this frequency, we haveexposed the results obtained for an experiment ofextraction in two technical corpora.Currently, we are situated in the phase to imple-ment  and evaluate  a new experiment  oriented tothe detection of lexical relations between the termand the genus term formulated for analytical defin-itions.
In particular, we are interested in discover-ing three types of relations: hyponym/hyperonymy,part-whole and attribution-entity.We conclude suggesting some topics of collab-orations for our potential colleges:I.
The construction of specialized textscorpora with good candidates of DCs,having in mind the basic features foridentifying a DC.II.
The implementation of new linguisticand statistical methods for detectingand extracting lexical relations fromtext corpora.III.
The improvement of search systems,using these underlying lexical relationsin electronic documents.IV.
Following to Wilks, Slator & Guthrie(1995), the design of lexical-semantictags for recognizing and classifyingconcepts in taxonomies.Similarly,  according  to  Buitelaar,  Cimiano  &Magnini, we can use external lexical resources asSpanish WordNet and Spanish FrameNet (Subirats2009) for  determining and evaluating our lexicalnetworks,  in  order  to  enrich  the  results  that  wecould generate.AcknowledgmentsThis paper was made possible by the financial sup-port  of  the  Consejo  Nacional  de  Ciencia  y  Tec-nolog?a, CONACYT, and DGAPA?UNAM.
Also,we  wish  to  thank  the  anonymous  reviewers  fortheirs comments and suggestions.ReferencesC?sar Aguilar, Rodrigo Alarc?n, Carlos Rodr?guez andGerardo Sierra.
2004.
Reconocimiento y clasificaci?nde patrones verbales definitorios en corpus especiali-zados?.
En Cabre T., Estop?
R. & Teb?
C.
(Eds.).
Laterminolog?a en el siglo XXI, IULA-UPF, Barcelona,Spain: 259-269.C?sar Aguilar.
2009.
An?lisis ling?
?stico de definicionesen contextos definitorios.
Ph.
D. Thesis, Departmentof Linguistics, UNAM, Mexico.Rodrigo  Alarc?n,  Gerardo  Sierra  and  Carme  Bach.2007.
Developing a Definitional Knowledge Extrac-tion System.
Conference Proceedings of Third Lan-guage  &  Technology  Conference  LTC'07,  Pozna?,Poland.John  Bowers.
1993.
The  Syntax  of  Predication,  Lin-guistic Inquiry, 24(4): 591-636.John  Bowers.
2001.
Predication.
In  Baltin,  M.  &Collins,  C.
(eds.
),  The Handbook of  ContemporarySyntactic Theory, Blackwell, Oxford, UK: 299-333.Paul  Buitelaar,  Philipp  Cimiano  and  Bruno  Magnini.2005.
Ontology learning from text.
IOS Press, Ams-terdam, The Netherlands.Eugene Charniak and Matthew Berland.
1999.
Findingparts in very large corpora.
Proceedings of the 37thAnnual  Meeting  of  the  Association  for  Computa-tional Linguistics: 57-64.Christiane  Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet:  An  ElectronicLexical Database, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Roxana Girju, Adriana Badulescu and Dan I. Moldovan.2006.
Automatic Discovery of Part?Whole Relations.Computational Linguistics, 32(1): 83-135.Marti  Hearst.
1992.
Automatic  Acquisition  ofHyponyms from Large Text Corpora.
Proceedings ofthe Fourteenth International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics, Nantes, France.Marie-Claude  L?Homme  and  Patrick  Drouin.
2006.Corpus de Inform?tica para el espa?ol, Groupe ?k-115lectick, OLST-Universit?
de Montr?al, Montr?al, Ca-nada: http://www.olst.umontreal.ca/.Alfonso Medina, Gerardo Sierra, Gabriel Gardu?o, Car-los  M?ndez  and  Roberto  Salda?a.
2004.
CLI:  AnOpen Linguistic Corpus for Engineering.
In De Ita,G.
Fuentes, O.
& Galindo, M.
(Eds.)
Proceedings ofIX  Ibero-American  Workshop  on  Artificial  Intelli-gence, Puebla, BUAP: 203-208.Massimo Poesio  and  Abdulrahman  Almuhareb.
2004.Feature-Based vs. property-based KR: An empiricalperspective.
In  Proceedings of International Confer-ence  on  Formal  Ontology  in  Information  SystemsFOIS 2004, Torino, Italy.Ellen  Riloff  and  Jessica  Shepherd.
1999.
A  corpus-based  bootstrapping  algorithm for  Semi-Automatedsemantic  lexicon  construction.
Journal  of  NaturalLanguage Engineering .
5(2): 147-156.Carlos Rodr?guez.
2004.
Metalinguistic Information Ex-traction  from  specialized  texts  to  enrich  computa-tional lexicons.
Ph.
D. Thesis, Universidad PompeuFabra, Barcelona, Spain.Gerardo  Sierra,  Rodrigo  Alarc?n  and  C?sar  Aguilar.2006.
Extracci?n  autom?tica  de  contextos  definito-rios en textos especializados.
In Inchaurralde,  C. &Ibarretxe, I.
(Eds.).
Memorias del XXII Congreso dela  Sociedad  Espa?ola  para  el  Procesamiento  delLenguaje Natural, University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza,Spain: 351-352.Gerardo  Sierra,  Rodrigo  Alarc?n,  C?sar  Aguilar  andCarme Bach.
2008.
Definitional Verbal  Patterns forSemantic  Relation Extraction.
In  Auger  A.
& Bar-ri?re C.
(Eds.
), Pattern-based Approaches to Semant-ic Relation Extraction.
Special issue of Terminology,14(1): 74?98.Carlos Subirats (2009).
Spanish Framenet: A frame se-mantic analysis of the Spanish lexicon.
In Boas H.(Ed.
),  Multilingual  FrameNets  in  ComputationalLexicography.
Methods and Applications, Mouton deGruyter, Berlin/New York:  135-162.Yorick Wilks, Brian Slator and Louise Guthrie.
1996.Electric Words.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Morton  E.  Winston, Roger  Chaffin  and  Douglas  Her-rmann.
1987.
A  taxonomy of  part-whole  relations.Cognitive Science, 11(4): 417 ?
444.116
