Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (CogALex 2010), pages 12?17,Beijing, August 2010Exploiting Lexical Resources for Therapeutic Purposes: thecase of WordNet and STaRS.sysGianluca E.
Lebani??
?Center for Mind/Brain SciencesUniversity of Trentogianluca.lebani@unitn.itEmanuele Pianta?
?HLT GroupFondazione Bruno Kesslerpianta@fbk.euAbstractIn this paper, we present an on-goingproject aiming at extending the WordNetlexical database by encoding commonsense featural knowledge elicited fromlanguage speakers.
Such extension ofWordNet is required in the framework ofthe STaRS.sys project, which has thegoal of building tools for supporting thespeech therapist during the preparation ofexercises to be submitted to aphasic pa-tients for rehabilitation purposes.
We re-view some preliminary results and illu-strate what extensions of the existingWordNet model are needed to accommo-date for the encoding of commonsense(featural) knowledge.1 IntroductionElectronic lexical resources such as WordNetand FrameNet are used for a great variety of nat-ural processing tasks, ranging from query expan-sion, to word sense disambiguation, text classifi-cation, or textual entailment.
Some of these re-sources are also used by human users as on-linedictionaries; see the Princeton WordNet1 and theMultiWordNet 2  on-line sites.
In this paper wedescribe a novel attempt to exploit the informa-tion contained in wordnets to build a tool de-signed to support the therapy of language disord-ers.
In doing so, we will tackle also an interestingtheoretical issue.
Is the WordNet conceptualmodel apt to represent the common sense know-ledge associated to concepts, which is partly lostin case of language disorders (aphasia) due to a1http://wordnet.princeton.edu/2http://multiwordnet.fbk.eu/brain damage?
Note that, in cognitively orientedstudies of the lexicon such knowledge is oftenrepresented in the form of featural descriptionselicited from speakers, such as <a cat> islazy 3 , <camels> are found in deserts,<planes> fly etc.Anomia is the most pervasive and persistent ofaphasia symptoms.
It has been described as ?adifficulty in finding high information words,both in fluent discourse and when called upon toidentify an object of action by name?
(Goodglassand Wingfield, 1997:3).
The naming difficultiesexperienced by anomic patients can vary sub-stantially, so that different ?anomias?
can be cha-racterized as arising from either a mainly lexicalor mainly semantic breakdown.
Depending onthe kind of anomia, therapeutic approaches canvary, so as to employ the more appropriate tasksand stimuli.Computers can support the rehabilitation oflanguage disorders in many ways: from assistingthe administrative management to enhancingcommon assessment methods, from helping theclinician during the therapeutic session to alle-viating the communicative difficulties of a pa-tient by exploiting his unimpaired abilities (Pe-theram, 2004).In these pages we introduce STaRS.sys (Se-mantic Task Rehabilitation Support system), aComputer Assisted Therapy (CAT) tool designedto support the therapist in the preparation of se-mantic exercises such as odd-one-out, yes/noattribute question answering, property generationand so forth.
All these exercises are based on thekinds of information that are carried by featural3Concepts and features will be printed in italics couri-er new font.
When reporting a concept-feature pair, theconcept will be further enclosed by <angled brackets>.Feature types and concept categories will be reported initalics times new roman.12descriptions.
Such a scenario motivates the needfor a lexical semantic resource which is richerand somehow more cognitively-oriented than theexisting ones.
We will argue that such needs canbe satisfied by enhancing the WordNet model(WN: Fellbaum, 1998 ed) as implemented in theItalian MultiWordNet (MWN: Pianta et al 2002)lexicon.
Our project is developed in collabora-tion with the CIMeC?s Center for Neuropsycho-logical Rehabilitation (CeRiN), and focuses onItalian.
We leave to the future the evaluation ofwhether and how our model can be expanded toother languages.These pages are organized as follows: Sec.
2shows the possibilities offered by the exploita-tion of STaRS.sys in a therapeutic context, andthe lexical semantics requirements that such useposes.
In Sec.
3 and 4 we illustrate specific is-sues related to the encoding of featural know-ledge into the MWN model.2 STaRS.sys in a therapeutic contextIn this section we will illustrate the semantic re-quirements that the therapeutic use of STaRS.sysposes, and how we foresee the tool will be usedin practical therapeutic scenarios.2.1 Semantic requirementsAn essential requirement of the STaRS.sys toolis the capability of managing the major variablesthat influence the performance of anomic pa-tients in semantic therapeutic tasks (Raymer andGonzalez-Rothi, 2002; Cree and McRae, 2003).Accordingly, we identified a minimum of fivetypes of information which should be availablefor every lexical concept:Conceptual Taxonomy.
A fully-specifiedconceptual taxonomy is an essential requirementfor our tool, in the light of the existence of pa-tients affected by language disorders specific tocertain semantic categories, such as tools, or liv-ing beings (Capitani et al 2003).Featural Descriptions.
Featural descriptionsare assumed to play a central role in the humansemantic memory (Murphy, 2002) and will berepresented here as <concept> featurecouples, e.g.
<dog> has a tail.This information can be exploited for selectingsets of concepts which are relevant in a certaintherapeutic context, e.g.
concepts sharing a fea-ture value (?red objects?)
or those for which atype of feature is particularly relevant (e.g.
?ani-mals with a peculiar fur?
).Feature Types Classification.
A grouping ofFDs into feature types is needed for selectivelyworking on feature types of interest, or for theestimation of semantic measures such as featuredistinctiveness, semantic relevance, concept si-milarity and feature correlation (Cree andMcRae, 2003; Sartori and Lombardi, 2004; Vin-son et al 2003).
As we will see in the followingsections, feature types can be mapped ontoWordNet-like relations.Prototypicality.
A concept can be more orless representative of its category.
Choosing andworking on concepts with different levels of pro-totypicality can be informative, for both thera-peutic and diagnostic purposes.Word Frequency.
Patients?
performance canbe affected by word frequency.
Thereby, a criti-cal skill for our tool is the ability to discriminatebetween words used with different frequencies.2.2 Use Case ScenariosBy exploiting a lexical infrastructure encodingsuch semantic information, STaRS.sys can beused by a therapist for:?
retrieving concepts;?
retrieving information associated to concepts;?
comparing concepts.These three functionalities can be illustratedby the preparation of three different tasks for apatient affected by, e.g., a semantic deficit selec-tively affecting animal concepts.
Such a kind ofpatient would show comprehension and produc-tion difficulties restricted to concepts belongingto the animal category (Capitani et al 2003).Plausibly, furthermore, his production problemswould manifest both as naming failure in con-trolled conditions (i.e.
in tests like the ones re-ported below) and as a difficulty/inability to re-trieve the intended word in spontaneous speech(Semenza, 1999).In the first scenario, the therapist looks forconcepts that match given specifications in orderto prepare a feature generation task.
As an exam-ple, she submits to STaRS.sys a request for con-cepts of frequent use, referring to animals, asso-ciated to highly distinctive color features andhaving a high mean feature distinctiveness.
Thesystem returns concepts such as zebra, tiger13and cow.
Finally the patient is asked to generatephrasal descriptions for these concepts.In a second scenario, STaRS.sys is used to re-trieve FDs for a given set of concepts.
Right andwrong concept-feature couples are created tobuild a questionnaire, in which the patient is re-quired to distinguish the right from the wrongpairs.
For instance, the therapist submits toSTaRS.sys a query for features of the conceptleopard that are highly relevant and either per-ceptual or taxonomical, and obtains features suchas is yellow with black spots and is acat.Finally, in the third scenario the therapist usesSTaRS.sys to find concepts for an odd-one-outtask.
That is, she looks for triples composed oftwo similar concepts plus an incoherent one thathas to be found by the patient.
As an example,starting from the concept lion, she looks foranimals that typically live in a similar/differentnatural habitat, and obtains similar concepts suchas leopard and cheetah, and a dissimilar con-cept such as wolf.3 WN as semantic lexical resource forSTaRS.sysThe STaRS.sys application scenario motivatesthe need for a lexical semantic resources that:R1: is cognitively motivated;R2: is based on a fully-specified is-a hierarchy;R3: is intuitive enough to be used by a therapist;R4: allows for the encoding of featural propertiesand their association to concepts;While designing the STaRS.sys tool, we madethe hypothesis that a semantic lexical resourcebuilt according to the WN model could meetmost of the above requirements.In the WN model every concept is representedas a synset (set of synonyms) such as {hand, ma-nus, hook, mauler, mitt, paw}.
Such semanticunits are organized in a network interconnectedtrough several relations.
Examples of semanticrelations include the is-a relation, e.g.
{left_hand,left} is-a {hand, ?
}, and the meronymy relation,e.g.
{hand, ?}
has-part {finger}.At a first glance, WN seems to easily meetthree of the above criteria.
First, WN was initial-ly conceived as a model of the human lexicalmemory.
Second, WordNet implement extensiveand systematic noun hierarchies.
More specifi-cally, a preliminary analysis of the Italian MWNnominal hierarchy has shown that the semanticcategories which are relevant for rehabilitationpurposes can be easily mapped onto MWN toplevel nodes (tools, animals, people).
Third, WNis based on a conceptual model which is relative-ly simple and near to language use (as opposedto more sophisticated logics-based models).
Weexpect that this feature will facilitate the use ofSTaRS.sys by therapists, which may not have allthe formal logics awareness that is needed to useformal ontologies.
Furthermore, MWN is ma-nually developed trough an on-line Web applica-tion.
We expect that such application can be usedby therapists using STaRS.sys for the shared andcommunity-based development/maintenance ofthe lexical resource they need.A final motivation in favor of the choice ofMWN is the fact that this Italian resource isstrictly aligned at the semantic level to Englishand other European languages (e.g.
Spanish, Por-tuguese, Romania, Hebrew).
Thus, we can envi-sage that at least part of the semantic informationwhich is encoded for Italian can be ported to thealigned languages and used for similar purposes.4 Mapping featural descriptions intoMWNOur hypothesis about the usefulness of the WNmodel for the needs of STaRS.sys can be fullyconfirmed only if we find a way to encode insuch a model all or most of the knowledge whichis contained in feature descriptions elicited fromItalian speakers (R4 in previous section).
In moregeneral terms we need to answer the followingquestions.
Does MWN already contain all theinformation that is needed by the STaRS.sys re-quirements?
If we need to extend the existingMWN, can we simply add new synsets and in-stances of existing relations, or do we need toadd new relation types?
Is the conceptual modelof MWN or of any other WN variant powerfulenough to encode all the information containedin feature descriptions?A first simple approach to representing fea-ture descriptions in MWN is associating featuredescriptions to synset glosses.
As a consequence,a MWN gloss, which is currently composed of adefinition and a list of usage examples, allcrafted by lexicographers, would contain also a14list of feature descriptions, elicited from lan-guage speakers.This approach may be useful for some of theforeseen usages of STaRS.sys (e.g.
retrievingfeature descriptions from concepts), and can alsobe interesting for a generic use of MWN.
How-ever, to fully exploit the knowledge contained inFDs (e.g.
for calculating concept similarity) it isnecessary to encode that knowledge in a moreexplicit way; that is we need to map each FD in awordnet-like relation between a source and atarget concept.
For instance, a pair such as <cup>is used for drinking can be represented as ais_used_for relation holding between the sourceconcept {cup} and the target concept {drink}.Encoding the source concept is relatively easygiven that it is usually expressed as an isolatedword that is used as stimulus for feature elicita-tion from subjects, e.g.
?scimmia?
(?monkey?
).The only problematic aspect in this step may bethe choice of the right sense which was meantwhen the word has been proposed to subjects.
Insome cases this may be not trivial, even if, inprinciple, stimulus words are supposed to bechosen so as to avoid ambiguities; see for in-stance the word ?cipolla?
(?onion?
), which inMWN is ambiguous between the vegetable andfood sense.More complex is the encoding of the featureitself which is a free and possibly complex lin-guistic description (e.g.
likes eating bana-nas).
To fulfill our goal, we need to map suchdescription in a wordnet-like relation and a targetconcept.
Such goal can be accomplished in twosteps.4.1 Mapping feature types into MWN rela-tionsGiven the semantic requirements illustrated inSec.
2.1, one the first steps in the development ofthe STaRS.sys tool has been the design of a clas-sification of FDs in feature types; see Lebani andPianta (2010).
In a second moment, we realizedthat assigning a FD to a feature type is equivalentto assigning it to a wordnet relation, given that itis possible to create one-to-one mappings be-tween features types and relations.The adopted feature type classification hasbeen designed so as to be (1) reasonably intui-tive, (2) robust and (3) cognitively plausible.
Thecognitive plausibility requirement has been ful-filled by moving from an analysis of similar pro-posals put forwards in the experimental litera-ture, or exploited in the therapeutic practice.
Asfor the former, we considered research fields asdistant as lexicography, theoretical linguisticsand cognitive psychology.
Examples of compati-ble proposals currently exploited in the therapeu-tic practice are the question type of Laiacona etal?s (1993) semantic questionnaire, a type classi-fication adopted by the therapists of the CIMeC?sCeRiN (personal communication) and the Se-mantic Feature Analysis paradigm (Boyle andCoelho, 1995).The resulting classification only considersconcrete objects and is composed of 25 featuretypes.
All of them (except the is associated withrelations) belong to one of the following six rela-tions) belong to one of the following six majorclasses: taxonomic properties, part-of- relations,Feature Type Examplehas Portion <bread> cut into sliceshas Geographical Part <Africa> Egittohas Size <elephant> is bighas Shape <clock> is roundhas Texture <eel> is slimy / <biscuit> is crunchyhas Taste <lemon> is bitterhas Smell <rose water> smells of rosehas Sound <lighting> produces a thunderhas Colour <lemon> is yellowis Used for <cup> is used for drinkingis Used by <cleaver> is used by butchersis Used with <violin> is played with a bowSituation Located <jacket> used in occasionsSpace Located <camel> in the desertTime Located <pajamas> used at nighthas Origin <milk> comes from cowsis Involved in <bird> eats seeds - is huntedhas Attribute <subway> is fasthas Affective Property <horror movie> is scaryis Associated with <dog> manTable 1: STaRS.sys types not having a parallel word-net semantic relation15perceptual properties, usage properties, location-al properties and associated events and attributes.A first version of this classification has beenevaluated by asking 5 na?ve Italian speakers toassign the appropriate type label to 300 concept4-feature pairs from a non-normalized version ofthe Kremer et als (2008) norms.
The inter-coderagreement between subjects (Fleiss?
Multi-pi =0,73) validated the skeleton of our classification,at the same time suggesting some minor changesthat have been applied to the classification pro-posed here.
An evaluation of the improved clas-sification involving therapists has been plannedfor the (very near) future.Note that in order to map all of the featuretypes into wordnet relations we had to create anumber of new relations which are not availablein existing wordnets.
The list of existing MWNrelations used to encode STaRS.sys feature typesincludes five items: hypernym, has_co-ordinate,has_part, has_member, has_substance.
The fol-lowing table contains the list of the 20 additionalrelations, along with examples.4.2 Encoding target concepts in MWNA second step needed in order to fully representthe semantics of feature descriptions in MWN isthe encoding of target concepts.Target concepts can be expressed by a noun(e.g.
has a <neck>), an adjective (e.g.
is <big>)or a verb or a verbal construction (e.g.
is usedfor <drinking>, is used to <cut bread>).In principle this is not problematic as WN en-codes all these lexical categories.What is problematic instead is the possiblecomplexity of target concepts.
Whereas in WNsynsets are bound to contain only lexical units(with the few exceptions of the so called artificialnodes), the target of a featural description can bea free combination of words, for instance a nounmodified by an adjective (e.g.
has a <longneck>), an adjective modified by an adverb (e.g.is <very big>) or a verb with an argument (e.g.is used to <cut bread>).
For giving an idea ofthe phenomenon, consider that 27,6% of the fea-tures that composes the experimental sample in4In details, the subjects were submitted with concrete con-cepts belonging to one of the following categories: mam-mals, birds, fruits, vegetables, body parts, clothing, mani-pulable tools, vehicles, furniture and buildings.Lebani and Pianta (2010) contain target conceptsexpressed by free combination of wordsThe solution we adopted to solve this problemrelies on the notion of phraset proposed by Ben-tivogli and Pianta (2003; 2004), that is a datastructure used for encoding ?sets of synonymousfree combination of words (as opposed to lexicalunits) which are recurrently used to express aconcept?.
In the original proposal, the authorsintroduced such a data structure to cope withlexical gaps in multingual resources or to encodealternative (linguistically complex) ways of ex-pressing an existing concept.
Phrasets can be as-sociated to existing synsets to represent alterna-tive (non lexical) ways of expressing lexicalizedconcepts, e.g.
the Italian translations of ?dish-cloth?
:Synset: {canovaccio, strofinaccio}Phraset: {strofinaccio_per_i_piatti,straccio_per_i_piatti}where ?strofinaccio per i piatti?
and ?straccio peri piatti?
and are free combinations of words.
Inalternative, they can be used to represent lexicalgaps, such as the Italian translation equivalent of?breadknife?
:Synset: {GAP}Phraset: {coltello_da_pane,coltello_per_il_pane}Phrasets can be annotated by exploiting the com-poses/composed-of lexical relation linking phra-set with the synsets corresponding to the con-cepts that compose it.
For instance the expressionin the above phraset is linked by a hypernym andby a composed-of relation with the synset {col-tello} (knife) and {pane} (bread).
As far asFDs are concerned, the use of phrasets is com-patible with the received view about the compo-sitional nature of the human conceptual know-ledge (Murphy, 2002).Figure 1 shows how phrasets allow forrepresenting the complex FD <breadknife> isused to cut bread in the MWN model.5 Conclusion and future directionsThis paper presents the preliminary results of aresearch aiming at exploiting and extending theWordNet conceptual model as an essential com-ponent of a tool for supporting the rehabilitationof patients with language disorders.
A crucial16Figure 1: Representation of the concept-feature pair<breadknife> is used to cut breadaspect for the use of wordnet-like resources insuch a context is the possibility of representinglexical knowledge represented in the form of fea-ture descriptions elicited from language speakers.Our work has illustrated the steps which areneeded to encode feature descriptions in the WNmodel.
To this purpose we introduced twentynew wordnet relations, and relied on phrasets forrepresenting complex (non-lexicalized) concepts.The study presented in these pages is a neces-sary theoretical step for the development of ourtool.
A practical evaluation of its feasibility isplanned for the very near future, together withother (equally important but less relevant in thiscontext) issues concerning both the population ofour semantic knowledge base and the overalldesign of STaRS.sys.Acknowledgements.
We are grateful to RitaCapasso and Alessia Monti for the useful discus-sion of the application scenario sketched in thesepages.ReferencesLuisa Bentivogli and Emanuele Pianta.
2003.
BeyondLexical Units: Enriching WordNets with Phrasets.Proceedings of EACL 2003: 67-70.Luisa Bentivogli and Emanuele Pianta.
2004.
Extend-ing WordNet with Syntagmatic Information.
Pro-ceedings of the 2nd International WordNet Confe-rence: 47-53.Mary Boyle and Carl A. Coelho.
1995.
Application ofsemantic feature analysis as a treatment for aphasiadysnomia.
American Journal of Speech-LanguagePathology, 4: 94-98.Erminio Capitani, Marcella Laiacona, Brad Z. Mahonand Alfonso Caramazza.
2003.
What are the Factsof Semantic Category-Specific Deficits?
A Criti-cal Review of the Clinical Evidence.
CognitiveNeuropsychology, 20(3): 213-261.George S. Cree and Ken McRae.
2003.
Analyzing theFactors Underlying the Structure and Computa-tion of the Meaning of Chipmunk, Cherry, Chisel,Cheese, and Cello (and Many Other Such Con-crete Nouns).
Journal of Experimental Psycholo-gy: General, 132 (2): 163-201.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998 ed.
WordNet: an electroniclexical database.
The MIT Press.Harold Goodglass and Arthur Wingfield.
1997.
Ano-mia: Neuroanatomical & Cognitive Correlates.Academic Press.Gerhard Kremer, Andrea Abel and Marco Baroni.2008.
Cognitively salient relations for multilinguallexicography.
Proceedings of COLING-CogALexWorkshop 2008: 94-101.Marcella Laiacona, Riccardo Barbarotto, Cristina Tri-velli and Erminio Capitani.
1993.
DissociazioniSemantiche Intercategoriali.
Archivio di Psicologi-a, Neurologia e Psichiatria, 54: 209-248.Gianluca E. Lebani and Emanuele Pianta.
2010.
AFeature Type Classification for Therapeutic Pur-poses: a preliminary evaluation with non expertspeakers.
Proceedings of ACL-LAW IV Workshop.Gregory L. Murphy.
2002.
The big book of concepts.The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Brian Petheram.
2004, ed.
Special Issue on Computersand Aphasia.
Aphasiology, 18 (3): 187-282.Emanuele Pianta, Luisa Bentivogli and Christian Gi-rardi.
2002.
MultiWordNet: developing an alignedmultilingual database.
Proceedings of the 1st Inter-national Conference on Global WordNet.Anastasia Raymer and Leslie Gonzalez-Rothi.
2002.Clinical Diagnosis and Treatment of Naming Dis-orders.
In A.E.
Hillis (ed) The Handbook of AdultLanguage Disorders.
Psychology Press: 163-182.Giuseppe Sartori and Luigi Lombardi.
2004.
SemanticRelevance and Semantic Disorders.
Journal ofCognitive Neuroscience, 16 (3): 439-452.Carlo Semenza.
1999.
Lexical-semantic disorders inaphasia.
In G. Denes and L. Pizzamiglio (eds.
).Handbook of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsy-chology.
Psychology Press, Hove: 215-244.David P. Vinson, Gabriella Vigliocco, Stefano Cappaand Simona Siri.
2003.
The Breakdown of Seman-tic Knowledge: Insights from a Statistical Model ofMeaning Representation.
Brain and Language, 86:347-365.17
