Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 202?206,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsDiscourse Relation Configurations in Turkishand an Annotation EnvironmentBerfin Aktas??
and Cem Bozsahin?
?
and Deniz Zeyrek?
??
Informatics Institute, ?
Computer Eng.
and ?
Foreign Language Education Dept.Middle East Technical University, Ankara Turkey 06531berfinaktas@gmail.com {bozsahin,dezeyrek}@metu.edu.trAbstractIn this paper, we describe an annotationenvironment developed for the marking ofdiscourse structures in Turkish, and thekinds of discourse relation configurationsthat led to its design.1 IntroductionThe property that distinguishes a discourse from aset of arbitrary sentences is defined as coherence(Halliday and Hasan, 1976).
Coherence is estab-lished by the relations between the units of dis-course.Systematic analysis of coherence requires anannotated corpus in which coherence relations areencoded.
Turkish Discourse Bank Project (TDB)aims to produce a large-scale discourse level an-notation resource for Turkish (Zeyrek and Weber,2008).
The TDB follows the annotation scheme ofthe PDTB (Miltsakaki et al 2004).
The lexicalizedapproach adopted in the TDB assumes that dis-course relations are set up by lexical items calleddiscourse connectives.
Connectives are consid-ered as discourse level predicates which take ex-actly two arguments.
The arguments are ab-stract objects like propositions, facts, events, etc.
(Asher, 1993).
They can be linked either by ex-plicitly realized connectives or by implicit onesrecognized by an inferential process.
We anno-tate explicit connectives; implicit connectives arefuture work.
We use the naming convention of thePDTB.
Conn stands for the connective, Arg1 andArg2 for the first and the second argument, respec-tively.
Conn, Arg1 and Arg2 are assumed to berequired components of discourse relations.
Sup-plementary materials which are relevant to but notnecessary for the interpretation are also annotated.Our main data is METU Turkish Corpus(MTC)(Say et al 2002).
MTC is a written source of Turk-ish with approximately 2 million words.
The orig-inal MTC files include informative tags, such asthe author of the text, the paragraph boundaries inthe text, etc.
We removed these tags to obtain rawtext files and set the character encoding of the filesto ?UTF-8?.
These conversions are useful for pro-gramming purposes such as visualizing the data indifferent platforms and the use of third-party li-braries.We developed an annotation environment tomark up the discourse relations, which we callDATT (Discourse Annotation Tool for Turkish).DATT produces XML files as annotation datawhich are generated by the implementation of astand-off annotation methodology.
We present in?2 the data from Turkish discourse, which forcedus to use stand-off annotation instead of in-linemarkup.
The key aspect is potential crossing ofthe markup links.
However, stand-off annotationis also advantageous for separate licensing.
Wepresent the design of data structure and the func-tionality of the tool in ?3.
We report some prelim-inary results in the conclusion.2 Dependency analysis of discourserelationsThe TDB has no a priori assumption on how thepredicates and arguments are placed.
We need totake into account potential cases to be able to han-dle overlappings and crossings among relations.We use the terminology proposed by Lee et al(2006), and follow their convention for naming thevariations of structures we came across.We looked at the connective tokens placed closeto each other, and made an initial investigation toreveal how these predicates and their argumentsare located in the text.
Preliminary analysis of thedata indicates that the components of two relationsare placed in 7 different ways, two of which arespecial to Turkish (?2.5; ?2.6).
This section is de-voted to the descriptions of observed patterns with202representative examples.1In the examples the connective (Conn) isunderlined, Arg1 is in italics and Arg2 is in bold-face.
A connective?s relative order with respectto its own arguments is not shown in the graphi-cal templates.
It is made explicit in the subsequentexamples.2.1 Independent relationsThe predicate-argument structure of the connec-tives are independent from each other (i.e., thereis no overlap between the arguments of differentconnectives.)
The template is (1).
An example isprovided in (2).
(1)(2) Ak?nt?ya kap?l?p umulmad?k bir geceyib?l?s?t?
benimle ve bu kadarla kals?nistedi belki.
Eda a?
?s?ndan olay?n yorumubu kadar yal?n olmal?.
Ama eg?er b?yleysebenim i?in yorumlanmas?
olanaks?z bird?s?ten bas?ka kalan yok geriye s?imdi.She was drifted with a current and shared anunexpected night with me and perhaps shewanted to keep it this much only.
Fromthe perspective of Eda, the interpretation ofthe incident should be that simple.
But, if thisis the case, now there is nothing left be-hind for me but a dream impossible to in-terpret.In (2), the relation set up by Ama is fully precededby the relation set up by ve.
There is no overlapbetween the argument spans of the connectives veand Ama.2.2 Full embeddingThe text span of a relation constitutes an argumentof another connective (3).
An example is providedin (4).(3)(4)a.
[..] madem yanl?s?
bir yerde oldug?umuzud?s?
?n?yoruz da dog?ru denen yere aslavaramayacag??m?z?
biliyoruz , senin gibibiri nas?l b?yle bir soru sorar ,[..]1All data in this paper are taken from MTC, unless statedotherwise.
More examples can be found in Aktas?
(2008).b.
[..] madem yanl?s?
bir yerde oldug?umuzud?s?
?n?yoruz da dog?ru denen yere aslavaramayacag??m?z?
biliyoruz , senin gibi birinas?l b?yle bir soru sorar,[..][..] if we think that we are in a wrong place,and we know that we will never never reachthe right place; how come a person like youask such a question?
[..]In (4), the span of the relation headed by da con-stitutes the Arg2 of the connective madem.2.3 Shared argumentTwo different connectives can share the same ar-gument (5).
(5)In some situations, different connectives can shareboth of their arguments as in the case of (6):(6) Dedektif roman?
i?inden ?
?k?lmaz gibi g?r?-nen esrarl?
bir cinayetin ??z?m?n?
sundug?ui?in, her s?eyden ?nce mant?g?a g?veni veinanc?
dile getiren bir anlat?
t?r?d?r vebundan ?t?r?
de burjuva rasyonellig?ininedebiyattaki ?z?
haline gelmis?tir.Unraveling the solution to a seemingly intri-cate murder mystery, the detective novel is anarrative genre which primarily gives voiceto the faith and trust in reason and being so,it has become the epitome of bourgeois ra-tionality in the literature.2.4 Properly contained argumentThe argument span of one connective encapsu-lates the argument of another connective plus moretext (7).
(7)An example is provided in (8), where Arg2 of veproperly contains Arg1 of Tersine.(8)a.
Kap?dan girdi ve s?yler misin, hi?
etkilen-medin mi yazd?klar?ndan?, dedi.
Tersine,?ok etkilendim.b.
Kap?dan girdi ve s?yler misin, hi?
etkilen-medin mi yazd?klar?ndan?, dedi.
Tersine,?ok etkilendim.203S/he entered through the door and said ?Tellme, are you not touched at all by what s/hewrote??.
On the contrary, I am very muchaffected.2.5 Properly contained relationThe argument span of one connective covers thepredicate-argument structure of another connec-tive and more text (9), as exemplified in (10).(9)(10)a.
Burada bizce bir ifade bozuklug?u veya ?e-viri yanl?s??
bahis konusu olabilir, ??nk?
el-biseler sanki giyildig?i s?rece ve y?pran-mam?s?ken y?kanamaz, fakat daha sonray?kanabilirmis?
gibi bir anlam tas??mak-tad?r.b.
Burada bizce bir ifade bozuklug?u veya ?e-viri yanl?s??
bahis konusu olabilir, ?
?nk?elbiseler sanki giyildig?i s?rece ve y?pran-mam?s?ken y?kanamaz, fakat daha sonray?kanabilirmis?
gibi bir anlam tas?
?maktad?r.Here a mistake of expression or mistransla-tion might be the case, because the meaningis as if the clothes cannot be washed as longas they are used and not worn out, but canbe washed later.In (10), the second argument of ??nk?
covers thewhole relation headed by fakat and the text ?gibibir anlam tas?
?maktad?r?, which is not part of it.2.6 Nested relationsA relation is nested inside the span of another re-lation (11).
(11)In (12), the relation headed by da is properlynested between the connective ve and its first ar-gument.
(12) B?y?k bir masada g?nlerce, gecelerce otu-rup konus?acag?
?z - konus?may?
unuttum diy-orum da g?l?yorlar bana - ve birinizkalk?p s?iir okuyacak.We will sit and talk around a big table fordays and nights - I say I have forgotten howto speak and they laugh at me - and one ofyou will stand up and recite poetry.2.7 Pure crossingThe dependency structure of a relation interleaveswith the arguments, or the connective of anotherrelation (13), as exemplified in (14).(13)(14)a.
(Constructed) Kitab?
okumaya bas?lad?m :Okullar ?oktan a??lm?s?t?.
Ard?ndan kap?n?n?ald?g??n?
duydum ama yerimden kalk-madan okumaya devam ettim: Ama buokula hen?z ?g?retmen atanmam?s?t?.b.
Kitab?
okumaya bas?lad?m Okullar ?oktana??lm?s?t?.
Ard?ndan kap?n?n ?ald?g??n?
duy-dum ama yerimden kalkmadan okumaya de-vam ettim: Ama bu okula hen?z ?g?retmenatanmam?s?t?.I started to read the book.
The schools hadlong been opened.
Then, I heard the doorbell ring but I continued reading withoutgetting up: But a teacher had not been ap-pointed to this school yet.3 The toolDATT is an XML-based infrastructure for text an-notation.
It aims to produce searchable and track-able data.
An initial investigation of connectiveand argument locations revealed that there is ar-gument sharing of various sorts, and nested andcrossing relations in Turkish discourse.
The ex-istence of such constructions lead us to use astand-off annotation rather than an in-line method.These dependencies are violations of tree struc-ture required by XML.
Using the OCCURS fea-ture of SGML for this purpose would lead to a lessportable markup tool.3.1 Data representationIn stand-off markup, annotations are stored sepa-rate from data.
Since the base file is not modifiedduring annotation, it is guaranteed that all the an-notators are dealing with the same version of thedata.
The text spans of dependency constructionsare represented in terms of character offsets from204the beginning of the text file.
This is a highly error-prone way of storing annotation data.
If there is ashift in the character indexes in the original textfile, previously annotated data will be meaning-less.
To compensate for this, we keep the textspans of annotations for recovery purposes.Annotation files are well-formed XML files.One can easily add new features to the annota-tions.
XML facilities available as online sourcessuch as the libraries for search and post-processingreduce the implementation effort of adding newfeatures.3.2 Search functionalityIn the TDB, the annotation process is organizedaccording to connective types and their tokens.The connective to be annotated is identified, andall the relations which are set up by the instancesof that connective are marked.
Therefore it is im-portant to be able to find all the instances of a spe-cific connective in the entire data source.
DATThas a search functionality which walks through allresource files and shows the annotator which fileshave the token.
We used ?Apache Lucene SearchLibrary?
for this functionality.Two distinguishing characteristics of Turkish,the vowel harmony and voicing, motivated us toenhance the search facilities by adding support forallomorphy.
In Turkish, suffixes may have manydifferent forms.
The ability to search on theseforms is crucial if connectives are attached to theinflected forms of words, which is very frequentlythe case.
For instance, the ?-d?k?
(the factive nom-inal) suffix has eight allomorphs (i.e.
-d?k, -dik,-duk, -d?k, -t?k, -tik, -tuk, -t?k) depending on thephonological environment.In Turkish discourse, the meaning of a connec-tive may change according to the inflectional cate-gory of the word that precedes it.
For example, theword just before the connective?i?in?
can be in-flected with ?-d?k?
and ?-mak?
(the infinitive) suf-fixes.
With ?-d?k?
the connective bears the mean-ing of causal ?since?, while in the other case, theconnective has the meaning of ?so as to?
(Zeyrek,Webber, 2008).
Because of this semantic differ-ence, it will be important for the annotator to clus-ter the instances of a connective token preceded byall the forms of a certain inflectional suffix in onesearch.
DATT provides this opportunity with theallomorph search support.In Turkish, connectives can be inflected.
For ex-ample, the connective ?dolay?s?yla?
(due to that)is the inflected form of ?dolay??
(due to).
The sup-port for regular expression search is also added toDATT to retrieve the inflected forms of the sameconnective.3.3 The user interfaceThe user interface of DATT is expected to allowthe marking of dependency hierarchies mentionedin Section 2 in a user-friendly way.
the TDB an-notation requires at least three components, whichare Arg1, Conn and Arg2.
In DATT, in order toguide the annotator, we enforce the labeling ofthese mandatory components, while marking ofthe supplementary material is optional.Another feature of DATT is the ability to markdiscontiguous text spans as a unique relation,which is attested in Turkish discourse (15).
Itsconnective-argument structure is shown below.The Arg1 of the connective -erek is interleavedwith the second argument Arg2.
(15) Y?r?
lan, dedi Katana, Ramiz?i kolundan?ekerek, Miskoye korkuyo!
?Hey you, move?
said Katana, while drag-ging Ramiz by the arm, ?Miskoye is freakedout.
?Conn Arg1 Arg2-erek Y?r?
... Kat$ 5, Mis$ korkuyo Ram$ ... ?ekerek4 ConclusionWe adopt a lexical approach to discourse annota-tion.
Connectives are words, and they take twotext spans as arguments.
An exploration of thesestructures shows that there is argument-sharingand overlap among relations.
We are consideringautomatic detection of relation types for an ap-praisal of discourse relation distribution.
For thetime being, DATT has search support for allomor-phy and regular expressions as an aid to findingthe connectives.Approximately 60 connective types and 100 to-kens have been determined so far in the annotationprocess, using 3 annotators.
7,000 relation tokensheaded by the connectives have been annotated us-ing DATT, spanning approximately 300,000-wordtext.
Work for agreement statistics is under way.We hope that machine learning techniques can dis-cover more structure in the data once we have rea-sonable confidence with annotation.5We use the notation ?abc$?
to refer to the word that be-gins with the string ?abc?.205ReferencesBerfin Aktas?.
2008.
Computational Aspects of Dis-course Annotation.
Informatics Institute, METU.Unpublished master thesis.Nicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objectsin Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.M.
A. K. Halliday and Ruqaiya Hasan.
1976.
Cohe-sion in English.
London: Longman.Alan Lee and Rashmi Prasad and Aravind Joshi andNikhil Dinesh and Bonnie Webber.
2006.
Com-plexity of dependencies in discourse.
In Proceed-ings of the 5th International Workshop on Treebanksand Linguistic Theories.Eleni Miltsakaki and Rashmi Prasad and Aravind Joshiand Bonnie Webber.
2004.
The Penn DiscourseTreeBank.
LREC, Lisbon, Portugal.Bilge Say and Deniz Zeyrek and Kemal Oflazer andUmut Ozge.
2002.
Development of a Corpus anda Treebank for Present-day Written Turkish.
11thInternational Conference on Turkish Linguistics.Deniz Zeyrek and Bonnie Webber.
2008.
A DiscourseResource for Turkish: Annotating Discourse Con-nectives in the METU Corpus.
In Proceedings ofIJCNLP.206
