Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Workshop on Computational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity, pages 23?30,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsEngineering Linguistic Creativity: Bird Flight and Jet PlanesPablo Gerva?sUniversidad Complutense de Madridc/ Profesor Garc?
?a Santesmases s/nMadrid, 28040, Spainpgervas@sip.ucm.esAbstractMan achieved flight by studying how birds fly,and yet the solution that engineers came upwith (jet planes) is very different from the onebirds apply.
In this paper I review a number ofefforts in automated story telling and poetrygeneration, identifying which human abilitiesare being modelled in each case.
In an anal-ogy to the classic example of bird-flight andjet planes, I explore how the computationalmodels relate to (the little we know about) hu-man performance, what the similarities are be-tween the case for linguistic creativity and thecase for flight, and what the analogy mighthave to say about artificial linguistic creativ-ity if it were valid.1 IntroductionThe achievement of flight by man is often used asan example of how engineering practice may leadto the successful emulation of behaviours observedin nature.
It is also used to illustrate the idea that asuccessful engineering solution (such as a jet plane)need not always mirror faithfully the natural phe-nomenon which inspired it (the flight of birds).The task of engineering solutions for linguisticcreativity is made difficult by an incomplete under-standing of how we manage language and how weachieve creativity.
Nevertheless, over the past fewyears a large research effort has been devoted to ex-ploring issues such as computational creativity, au-tomated story telling, or poetry generation.
In thesecases, there is also a combination of a naturally oc-curring source phenomenon and a set of engineeringtechniques that provide an emulation of it.In this paper I review a number of such researchand development efforts that I have been involvedin or studied in detail, paying particular attention toidentifying which traits of human activity are beingmodelled in each case.
In an analogy to the clas-sic example of bird-flight and jet planes, I explorehow the computational models of linguistic creativ-ity relate to (the little we know about) human per-formance, what the similarities are between the casefor linguistic creativity and the case for flight, andwhat the analogy might have to say about artificiallinguistic creativity if it were valid.2 Creativity at Different Levels ofLinguistic DecisionCreativity is a tricky word because it can mean dif-ferent things to different people.
There seems to bea historical reason for this, in as much as the actualword we now use seems to have been invented inthe 19th century in an attempt to cover the differ-ent concepts of innovation that were accepted in artand science (Weiner, 2000).
As it is very difficultto make progress without a minimal agreement onwhat we are talking about, I will set off with an at-tempt to clarify what I refer to when I use the wordin what follows.
This is not intended to be prescrip-tive of how it should be used or descriptive of whatother people may mean when they use it.
And it isnot meant to be exhaustive.1 The goal here is to pro-vide a brief sketch for readers to have a general ideaof what is being talked about.1Interested readers can refer to (Gerva?s, 2009) for a moredetailed discussion of my personal view on creativity.23For me creativity suggests the idea of someone(a creator) generating something (an output) that issomehow new, but also somewhat unexpected or dif-ferent from what others might have produced.
Thisoutput should satisfy some goal, though in manycases the particular goal implied is not altogetherclear.
The expectation of novelty implicitly brings ina second agent (an audience which usually involvesmore than one individual) that perceives or evaluatesthe result.When used in different contexts, the word cre-ativity acquires different meanings by virtue of in-volving different concepts of author, product, goal,or audience.
The assumption that there is a genericframework common to all the different cases shouldbe taken with a pinch of salt, as commonalities maynot go far beyond this basic sketch.It may seem that restricting the study to linguis-tic creativity simplifies the issue.
Surely once thedomain is constrained to linguistic outputs, the de-scription of creativity should indeed boil down to asimple common framework.
This assumption mayalso be risky, as I discuss below.There are several possible levels of decision atwhich the final form of a sentence is shaped.
At any(or all) of these it is possible to exercise creativity inthe sense described above.
At the level of phonetics,the way letters are put together to make sounds canbe explored in search of pleasing uses of rhyme, in-ternal rhyme or alliteration, as done in sound poetry(Hultberg, 1993).
If one considers rhythm, the stresspatterns of words may shape the stress pattern of asentence or a text into rhythms that are uncommonin the language, or in existing poetry, as Poe claimsto have done in ?The Raven?
(Poe, 1846).
With re-spect to lexical choice, the actual words chosen forthe text may be words that the user does not knowbut which actually convey a certain meaning to thereader, as done by Lewis Carrol in the poem ?Jab-berwocky?
(Carrol, 1872).For other levels of decisions, such as syntax, se-mantics or narrative, it is more difficult to pinpointspecific examples of creative uses, because instancesoccur in larger contexts and because they occurmuch more frequently.
They can be considered oftwo different kinds: those in which the main ob-jective is the communication of a certain messageor information, and those geared towards obtaininga pleasing effect of some sort.
The first kind oc-curs for instance when a speaker in a hurry waivesthe rules of correct syntax in his effort to get hismessage accross briefly.
In going beyond the ac-cepted rules, such a speaker may be deemed to bebehaving creatively.
This type of linguistic creativ-ity (say, corner-cutting creative communication) isworth exploring in detail, but it would require ac-cess to enough samples of specific instances of thephenomenon to provide starting material.
The sec-ond kind, in contrast, tend to get explicitly recordedfor this pleasing effect to be available at later times,and they provide an easier starting point for a studyof this sort.A number of examples of linguistic creativity ofthe second kind were reviewed in (Gerva?s, 2002).This study showed that creative behaviour does notoccur in the same degree across all levels.
Creativ-ity applied simultaneously at several linguistic lev-els can be counterproductive for communication ifabused.
Instead, a conservative approach in somelevels is required for a successful interpretation ofcreative innovations at other levels.
An additionalproblem that would have to be tackled is the extentto which the interaction between the theories for thedifferent levels complicates the picture significantly.Intuition suggests that it will to a considerable ex-tent.
Creativity may operate at each of the levels ofdecision involved in linguistic production, but it mayinteract between different levels in ways that are notevident.Under this light, we can see that even within therealm of linguistic creativity we seem to be facedwith a broad range of different types of creativity,with different concepts of product and goal, givingshape to widely differing phenomena.
In the hopeof reducing even further the scope of the problem,I will concentrate more specifically on instanceswhere a computer program is written to generatepieces of text that, when produced by a human au-thor, would be interpreted to have deliberate aspira-tions of creativity.3 Some Automatic Creators in theLiterary FieldAn exhaustive study of existing automatic creatorsof this kind would take more space than I have avail-24able here.
The selection below must not be under-stood to be exhaustive.
It is not even intended toindicate that the particular creators mentioned con-stitute the most significant efforts in the field.
I haveselected only a few for purposes of illustration, and Ihave chosen examples where relevant features of thecorresponding human processes have been consid-ered.
There are two main fields where computer pro-grams attempt to generate literary material: story-telling programs and poetry generators.
Again, adifference in genre introduces differences in prod-uct, goal and evaluation criteria, which leads to theapplication of different construction processes, so Iwill review each field separately.3.1 Automatic Story TellersResearch on storytelling systems has experiencedconsiderable growth over the years.
Although it hasnever been a popular research topic, nonetheless ithas received sustained attention over the years by adedicated community of researchers.
In recent yearsthe number of systems developed has increased sig-nificantly.
The body of work resulting from these ef-forts has identified a significant number of relevantissues in storytelling.
Successive systems have iden-tified particular elements in stories that play a role inthe process of generation.
Only a few illustrative ex-amples will be mentioned here.It is clear that planning has been central to ef-forts of modelling storytelling for a long time.
Mostof the existing storytelling systems feature a plan-ning component of some kind, whether as a mainmodule or as an auxiliary one.
TALESPIN (Mee-han, 1977), AUTHOR (Dehn, 1981), UNIVERSE(Lebowitz, 1983), MINSTREL (Turner, 1993) andFabulist (Riedl, 2004), all include some representa-tion of goals and/or causality, though each of themuses it differently in the task of generating stories.An important insight resulting from this work (orig-inally formulated by (Dehn, 1981) but later taken upby others) was the distinction between goals of thecharacters in the story or goals of the author.
Thisshowed that planning is a highly relevant tool forstorytelling, both at the level of how the coherenceof stories can be represented and how the process ofgenerating them is related to goals and causality.Another aspect that is obviously relevant for sto-rytelling is emotion.
This has been less frequentlyaddressed in automatic storytellers, but has an out-standing champion in the MEXICA system.
MEX-ICA (Pe?rez y Pe?rez, 1999) was a computer modeldesigned to study the creative process in writingin terms of the cycle of engagement and reflec-tion (Sharples, 1999), which presents a descriptionof writing understood as a problem-solving processwhere the writer is both a creative thinker and a de-signer of text.
MEXICA was designed to generateshort stories about the Mexicas (also wrongly knownas Aztecs), and it is a flexible tool where the usercan set the value of different parameters to constrainthe writing process and explore different aspects ofstory generation.
An important aspect of MEXICAis that it takes into account emotional links and ten-sions between the characters as means for drivingand evaluating ongoing stories.
The internal repre-sentation that MEXICA uses for its stories (a StoryWorld Context) is built incrementally as a story iseither read or produced (the system can do both,as it learns its craft from a set of previous stories).This representation keeps track of emotional linksand emotional tensions between characters.
Theseelements are represented as preconditions and post-conditions of the set of available actions.
The systemevaluates the quality of a partial draft for a story interms of the the rising and falling shape of the arc ofemotional tensions that can be computed from thisinformation.In general, most storytelling systems, being AI-style programs, can be said to operate by searchinga space of solutions, guided by a traversal functionthat leads to new points in the space and an evalu-ation function that rates each point of the space interms of quality.
In general, most systems concen-trate on the development and innovation efforts inthe function for generating new stories (the traversalfunction), hoping that the candidates generated willprogressively get better.
However, human authorsseem to learn their craft mostly by learning to distin-guish good stories from bad stories (which would in-volve focusing more on the evaluation function).
Afairly recent proposal (Gerva?s and Leo?n, ) describesa story generation system that outputs new storiesobtained by exploring a restricted conceptual spaceunder the guidance of a set of evaluation rules.
Theinteresting feature in this system is that it uses ex-haustive enumeration of the search space as its only25exploration procedure, and relies solely on its eval-uation rules to identify good stories.
This is a di-rect application of the generate & test paradigm ofproblem solving.
This system also models the wayin which the evaluation rules can evolve over time,leading to the production of new results.3.2 Automatic Poetry GeneratorsAutomatic poetry generators differ significantlyfrom storytellers in two aspects: they are expected tosatisfy very specific metric restrictions (in terms ofnumber of syllables per line, and position of stressedsyllables within the line) on the form of the out-put text (which story tellers do not usually take intoaccount), and they are allowed a certain poetic li-cence which boils down to relaxing, sometimes quitedramatically, any expectations of meaning or coher-ence in the output (which are fundamental for story-tellers).
As a result, there is a larger sample of poetrygenerators.
The review presented below attempts tocover some of the basic techniques that have beenused as underlying technologies.The generate & test paradigm of problem solvinghas also been widely applied in poetry generators.Because metric restrictions are reasonably easy tomodel computationally, very simple generation so-lutions coupled with an evaluation function for met-ric constraints are likely to produce acceptable re-sults (given an assumption of poetic licence as re-gards to the content).
An example of this approachis the early version of the WASP system (Gerva?s,2000).
Initial work by Manurung (Manurung, 1999)also applied a generate & test approach based onchart generation, but added an important restriction:that poems to be generated must aim for some spe-cific semantic content, however vaguely defined atthe start of the composition process.
This consti-tutes a significant restriction on the extent of poeticlicence allowed.Manurung went on to develop in his Phd thesis(Manurung, 2003) an evolutionary solution for thisproblem.
Evolutionary solutions seem particularlyapt to model this process as they bear certain sim-ilarities with the way human authors may exploreseveral possible drafts in parallel, progressively edit-ing them while they are equally valuable, focusingon one of them when it becomes better valued thanothers, but returning to others if later modificationsprove them more interesting.Another important tactic that human authors areknown to use is that of reusing ideas, structures, orphrasings from previous work in new results.
This isvery similar to the AI technique of Case-Based Rea-soning (CBR).
Some poetry generators have indeedexplored the use of this technique as a basic genera-tion mechanism.
An evolution of the WASP system(Gerva?s, 2001) used CBR to build verses for an inputsentence by relying on a case base of matched pairsof prose and verse versions of the same sentence.Each case was a set of verses associated with a proseparaphrase of their content.
An input sentence wasused to query the case base and the structure of theverses of the best-matching result was adapted intoa verse rendition of the input.
This constituted a dif-ferent approach to hardening the degree of poetic li-cence required to deem the outputs acceptable (theresulting verses should have a certain relation to theinput sentence).Another important mechanism that has been em-ployed by automatic poets is grammar-based gen-eration.
By using a grammar to produce gram-matically correct combinations of words, the re-sults obtained start to resemble understandable sen-tences.
As Chomsky mentioned in 1957, the factthat a sentence is grammatically correct does notimply that it will be interpretable.
However, in thecontext of automatically generated poetry, sentenceslike Chomsky?s classic counterexample (?Colorlessgreen ideas sleep furiously?)
acquire a special inter-est, as they provide both a sense of validity (due totheir syntactic correctness) and a sense of adventure(due to the impossibility of pinpointing a specificmeaning for them).
On reading such sentences, thehuman mind comes up with a number of conflictinginterpretations, none fully compatible with its literalmeaning.
This multiplicity of shifting meanings isvery atractive in the light of modern theories aboutthe role of reader interpretation in the reading pro-cess.In 1984 William Chamberlain published a bookof poems called ?The Policeman?s Beard is HalfConstructed?
(Chamberlain, 1981).
In the preface,Chamberlain claimed that all the book (but the pref-ace) had been written by a computer program.
Theprogram, called RACTER, managed verb conjuga-tion and noun declension, and it could assign cer-26tain elements to variables in order to reuse themperiodically (which gave an impression of thematiccontinuity).
Although few details are provided re-garding the implementation, it is generally assumedthat RACTER employed grammar-based generation.The poems in Chamberlain?s book showed a degreeof sophistication that many claim would be impos-sible to obtain using only grammars, and it has beensuggested that a savvy combination of grammars,carefully-crafted templates and heavy filtering of avery large number of results may have been em-ployed.The use of n-grams to model the probability ofcertain words following on from others has provento be another useful tecnique.
An example of poetrygeneration based on this is the cybernetic poet devel-oped by Ray Kurtzweil.
RKCP (Ray Kurtzweils Cy-bernetic Poet)2 is trained on a selection of poems byan author or authors and it creates from them a lan-guage model of the work of those authors.
From thismodel, RKCP can produce original poems whichwill have a style similar to the author on which theywere trained.
The generation process is controlledby a series of additional parameters, for instance,the type of stanza employed.
RKCP includes an al-gorithm to avoid generating poems too close to theoriginals used during its training, and certain algo-rithms to maintain thematic coherence over a givenpoem.
Over specific examples, it could be seen thatthe internal coherence of given verses was good, butcoherence within sentences that spanned more thanone verse was not so impressive.4 DiscussionThe selection of automatic creators reviewed aboveprovides a significant sample of human abilities re-lated with linguistic creativity that have been mod-elled with reasonable success.
These include: theability to recognise causality and use plans as skele-tons for the backbone of a text, the ability to identifyemotional reactions and evaluate a story in terms ofemotional arcs, the ability to relax restrictions at thetime of building and delay evaluation until fuller re-sults have been produced, the ability to iterate overa draft applying successive modifications in searchof a best fit, the ability to measure metric forms, the2http://www.kurzweilcyberart.com/poetry/rkcp overview.php3ability to reuse the structures of texts we liked in thepast, the ability to rely on grammars for generatingvalid text, and the ability to use n-grams to producea stream of text with surface form in a certain style.This list of abilities is doubtless not exhaustive, but itcovers a broad range of aspects.
The important ideais that although existing systems have identified andmodelled these abilities, very few have consideredmore than one or two of them simultaneously.
Andyet intuition suggests that human authors are likelyto apply a combination of all of these (and proba-bly many more additional ones that have not beenmodelled yet) even in their simplest efforts.It may pay to look in more detail at the set of toolsthat we have identified, with a view to consideringhow they might be put together in a single systemif we felt so inclined.
The engagement and reflec-tion model (Sharples, 1999) may provide a usefulframework for this purpose.
Sharples?
concept ofengagement seems to correspond with the ability togenerate a new instance of a given artefact, withoutexcessive concern to the quality or fitness for pur-pose of the partial result at any intermediate stage ofthe process.
According to this view, planners, case-based reasoning, grammars, or n-gram models canprovide reasonable implementations of proceduresfor engagement.
The concept of reflection capturesthe need to evaluate the material generated duringengagement.
Abilities like identifying emotional re-actions and evaluating a story in terms of emotionalarcs, or measuring metric forms would clearly havea role to play during reflection.
However, it is im-portant to consider that we are looking at a numberof possible mechanisms for use in engagement, to-gether with a number of possible mechanisms foruse in reflection.
This does indeed have a place inthe general scheme proposed by Sharples.
Sharplesproposes a cyclic process moving through two dif-ferent phases: engagement and reflection.
Duringthe reflection phase, the generated material is revisedin a three step process of reviewing, contemplatingand planning the result.
During reviewing the re-sult is read, minor edits may be carried out, but mostimportant it is interpreted to represent ?the proce-dures enacted during composition as explicit knowl-edge?.
Contemplation involves the process of oper-ating on the results of this interpretation.
Planninguses the results of contemplation to create plans or27intentions to guide the next phase of engagement.The evidence that we have presented so far suggeststhat a specific mechanism (or maybe more than one)may have been chosen to be used during a partic-ular cycle of engagement.
The process of review-ing mentioned by Sharples might simply be one ofexplicitly considering the choice of mechanism touse in engagement.
The process of contemplatingmight be an application of the full set of evaluationmechanisms particular to reflection.
The process ofplanning could be a complex process which wouldinclude among other things a decision of whetherto change the engagement mechanism in use (or theconfiguration of any parameters it may need), andwhich mechanism to apply in each situation.But we should not only study how closely auto-matic creators resemble human ones, assuming anydivergence is a negative factor.
Particular attentionmust be paid to the question of whether certain char-acteristics of human creativity are necessary condi-tions for creativity or simply the ingenious solutionthat makes it possible for the human mind while re-maining within its limitations.
This is particularlyimportant if one is to consider modelling creativityin computer systems, which have different limita-tions, but also different advantages.Humans have limited memory.
Many of the so-lutions they seem to apply (such as providing con-straints over a generative system so that it generatesonly ?appropriate?
solutions) are intended to avoidproblems arising from the large amount of memorythat would be required to consider all possible solu-tions provided by the generative system.
But com-puters do not usually have the same problem.
Com-puters can store and consider a much large num-ber of solutions.
This has in the past been the bigadvantage presented by computers over people.
Itis such a significant advantage that, for some taskssuch as chess playing, computers can perform bet-ter by computing all options and evaluating themall (very fast) than people can by using intelligentheuristics.Though little definite is known about how thebrain works, it seems to follow a highly parallelapproach to computation.
This is not true of mostmodern day computers.
The most widely extendedmodel for modern computers is the Von Neumannarchitecture, a computer design model that uses asingle processing unit and a single separate storagestructure to hold both instructions and data.
Overthis simple model, subsequent layers of abstractionmay be built, resulting in very complex models ofperformance as perceived by a human user runningthe computer.
Many of these complex behaviours(such as, for instance, evolutionary problem solv-ing techniques) have often been considered primecandidates for simulating creative behaviour in com-puters on the grounds that they implement a par-allel search method, but they are reckoned to beslow, taking a long time to produce results.
Thelack of speed is highy influenced by the fact that,when run on computers with a Von Neumann ar-chitecture, each possible solution must be built andevaluated sequentially by the underlying single pro-cessing unit.
If any computational solution basedon parallel search methods shows merit for emulat-ing creativity, it should not be discounted until it hasbeen tested over hardware that allows it to operatein a really parallel manner, and instances of theseare becoming more and more popular.
Nowadays ithas become more difficult to buy a new computerwithout finding it has at least two cores.
For gam-ing consoles, this trend has gone even further, withthe new generations sporting up to nine processingunits.5 Our Latest EffortsAlthough the aim of the paper is not to report orig-inal work, a brief description of my ongoing workconstitutes an example of the type of system that canbe considered along the lines described above.
TheWASP poetry generator is still going strong.
Onlyrecently a selection of 10 poems produced by WASPhas been published in a book about the possibilitiesof computers writing love poems (Gerva?s, 2010).The version of WASP used here is more advancedthan previous ones, and some of the ideas outlinedin the discussion have been introduced as modifica-tions on earlier designs.This version of WASP operates as a set of fami-lies of automatic experts: one family of content gen-erators (which generate a flow of text that is takenas a starting point by the poets), one family of po-ets (which try to convert flows of text into poems ingiven strophic forms), one family of judges (which28evaluate different aspects that are considered impor-tant), and one family of revisers (which apply modi-fications to the drafts they receive, each one orientedto correct a type of problem, or to modify the draftin a specific way).
These families work in a coor-dinated manner like a cooperative society of read-ers/critics/editors/writers.
All together they generatea population of drafts over which they all operate,modifying it and pruning it in an evolutionary man-ner over a pre-established number of generations ofdrafts, until a final version, the best valued effort ofthe lot, is chosen.The overall style of the resulting poems isstrongly determined by the accumulated sourcesused to train the content generators, which aremostly n-gram based.
The poems presented inthe book were produced with content generatorstrained on collections of texts by Federico Garc?
?aLorca, Miguel Herna?ndez and a selection of Six-teenth Century Spanish poets.
Readers familiar withthe sources can detect similarities in vocabulary,syntax and theme.
A specific judge is in charge ofpenalising instances of excessive similarity with thesources, which then get pushed down in the rankingand tend not to emerge as final solutions.The various judges assign scores on specific pa-rameters (on poem length, on verse length, onrhyme, on stress patterns of each line, on similar-ity to the sources, fitness against particular strophicforms...) and an overall score for each draft is ob-tained by combining all individual scores receivedby the draft.Poets operate mainly by deciding on the introduc-tion of line breaks over the text they receive as input.Revisers rely on scores assigned by judges to in-troduce changes to drafts.
Modifications can be ofseveral types: deletion of spans of text, substitutionof spans for newly generated ones, word substitu-tion, sentence elimination, and simple cross-over offragments of poems to obtain new ones.Because an initial draft produced by an n-grambased content generator is then processed manytimes over by poets and revisers, final results oscil-late between surprising faithfulness to the sourcesand very radical surreal compositions.6 ConclusionsIn view of the material presented, and taking up theanalogy between linguistic creativity and bird flight,we can say we are still trying to model birds.
Sofar, we have only achieved small models of parts ofbirds.
The various features of automatic creators thathave been vaguely related to human abilities in sec-tion 4 are clearly tools that human writers apply intheir daily task.
Having systems that model thesetechniques, and testing how far each technique goestowards modelling human activity are steps forward.Bird?s wings or bird?s feathers do not fly, but hav-ing good models of them is crucial to understandingwhat makes flight possible.Yet humans do not apply any of them in isola-tion, but rather rely on them as a set of tools andcombine them at need to produce new material, us-ing different combinations at different times.
In thesame way as research into flight considered how theparts of birds interact to achieve flight, in the realmof linguistic creativity more effort should be made tomodel the way in which humans combine differenttechniques and tools to achieve results.
This couldnot have been done a few years back for lack of avalid set of tools to start from, but it is feasible now.Aside from this positive optimistic analysis, thereis a darker thought to keep in mind.
Because werecognise that the models we are building at thecurrent stage are only reproductions of parts of thewhole mechanism, it would be unrealistic to demandof them that they exhibit right now creativity at thelevel of humans.
As long as they focus on one as-pect and leave out others, they are likely to performpoorly in the overall task when compared with theirhuman couterparts.
Yet even if they do not they arestill worthy pursuits as initial and fundamental stepson which to build better solutions.Once the various elements that contribute to thetask have been identified and modelled with reason-able success, and the way in which they interactwhen humans apply them, a new universe of pos-sibilities opens up.
Future research should addressthe way in which humans apply these various ele-ments, especially the way in which they combinesome with others to achieve better results.
In do-ing this, researchers should inform themselves withexisting research on this subject in the fields of psy-29chology, but also in the study of poetry, narratologyand literary theory in general.By doing this, it will become more likely thatcomputer programs ever produce output compara-ble to that of human authors.
Yet the overall goalshould not just be to obtain a pastiche of specifichuman artifacts, indistinguishable from the corre-sponding human-produced versions.
Jet planes areperfectly distinguishable from birds.
Which doesnot mean they are worthless.
Jet planes are differ-ent from birds because the engineering solutions thatscientists found for achieving flight required differ-ent materials (metal rather than bone and feathers),different applications of the basic principles (staticrather than flapping wings) and different means ofpropulsion (jet engines rather than muscle power).However, these departures from the original modelhave made the current solution capable of feats thatare impossible for birds.
Jet planes can fly muchfaster, much higher, and carrying much more weightthan any bird known.
Yet al this was made possi-ble by trying to emulate birds.
If we carry the anal-ogy to its full extent, we should generally considerdepartures from human models of linguistic creativ-ity wherever they result in methods better suited forcomputers.
This is already being done.
However,we should at some stage also start considering de-partures from the models for the output as generatedby humans.
I would say a second, more idealistic,purpose of computational creativity might be to lookfor things that machines can do that people cannotdo, but which people might yet learn to appreciate.AcknowledgmentsThe work reported in this paper was partiallysupported by the Ministerio de Educacio?n yCiencia (TIN2006-14433-C02-01, TIN2009-14659-C03-01).ReferencesL.
Carrol.
1872.
Through the Looking-Glass and WhatAlice Found There.
Bo Ejeby Edition, Sweden.W.
Chamberlain.
1981.
The Policeman?s Beard is HalfConstructed.
Warner Books, New york.Natalie Dehn.
1981.
Story generation after tale-spin.
InIn Proceedings of the International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, pages 16?18.P.
Gerva?s and Leo?n.
Story generation driven by system-modified evaluation validated by human judges.
InProc.
of the First International Conference on Com-putational Creativity.P.
Gerva?s.
2000.
WASP: Evaluation of different strate-gies for the automatic generation of spanish verse.
InProceedings of the AISB-00 Symposium on Creative &Cultural Aspects of AI, pages 93?100.P.
Gerva?s.
2001.
An expert system for the composition offormal spanish poetry.
Journal of Knowledge-BasedSystems, 14(3-4):181?188.P.
Gerva?s.
2002.
Linguistic creativity at different levelsof decision in sentence production.
In Proceedings ofthe AISB 02 Symposium on AI and Creativity in Artsand Science, pages 79?88.P.
Gerva?s.
2009.
Computational approaches to story-telling and creativity.
AI Magazine, 30(3):49?62.P.
Gerva?s.
2010.
Diez poemas emocionales gen-erados por un computador.
In D. Can?as andC.
Gonza?lez Tardo?n, editors, ?Puede un computadorescribir un poema de amor?, pages 189?196.
EditorialDevenir.T.
Hultberg.
1993.
Literally Speaking: sound poetry &text-sound composition.
Bo Ejeby Edition, Sweden.M.
Lebowitz.
1983.
Story-telling as planning and learn-ing.
In International Joint Conference on Artificial In-telligence, volume 1.H.
M. Manurung.
1999.
Chart generation of rhythm-patterned text.
In Proc.
of the First InternationalWorkshop on Literature in Cognition and Computers.H.
M. Manurung.
2003.
An evolutionary algorithm ap-proach to poetry generation.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Edimburgh, Edimburgh, UK.James R. Meehan.
1977.
TALE-SPIN, an interactiveprogram that writes stories.
In In Proceedings of theFifth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence, pages 91?98.R.
Pe?rez y Pe?rez.
1999.
MEXICA: A Computer Model ofCreativity in Writing.
Ph.D. thesis, The University ofSussex.Edgar Allan Poe.
1846.
The philosophy of composition.Graham?s Magazine, XXVIII(28):163?167.M.
Riedl.
2004.
Narrative Planning: Balancing Plotand Character.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of ComputerScience, North Carolina State University.Mike Sharples.
1999.
How We Write: Writing As Cre-ative Design.
Routledge, June.Scott R. Turner.
1993.
Minstrel: a computer model ofcreativity and storytelling.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofCalifornia at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.R.
Weiner.
2000.
Creativity & beyond : cultures, val-ues, and change.
State University of New York Press,Albany, NY.30
