Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on ?Collaboratively Constructed Semantic Resources?, Coling 2010, pages 19?27,Beijing, August 2010Extending English ACE 2005 Corpus Annotation with Ground-truthLinks to WikipediaLuisa BentivogliFBK-Irstbentivo@fbk.euPamela FornerCELCTforner@celct.itClaudio GiulianoFBK-Irstgiuliano@fbk.euAlessandro MarchettiCELCTamarchetti@celct.itEmanuele PiantaFBK-Irstpianta@fbk.euKateryna TymoshenkoFBK-Irsttymoshenko@fbk.euAbstractThis paper describes an on-going annota-tion effort which aims at adding a man-ual annotation layer connecting an exist-ing annotated corpus such as the EnglishACE-2005 Corpus to Wikipedia.
The an-notation layer is intended for the evalua-tion of accuracy of linking to Wikipedia inthe framework of a coreference resolutionsystem.1 IntroductionCollaboratively Constructed Resources (CCR)such as Wikipedia are starting to be used for anumber of semantic processing tasks that up tofew years ago could only rely on few manuallyconstructed resources such as WordNet and Sem-Cor (Fellbaum, 1998).
The impact of the new re-sources can be multiplied by connecting them toother existing datasets, e.g.
reference corpora.
Inthis paper we will illustrate an on-going annota-tion effort which aims at adding a manual anno-tation layer connecting an existing annotated cor-pus such as the English ACE-2005 dataset1 to aCCR such as Wikipedia.
This effort will producea new integrated resource which can be useful forthe coreference resolution task.Coreference resolution is the task of identify-ing which mentions, i.e.
individual textual de-scriptions usually realized as noun phrases or pro-nouns, refer to the same entity.
To solve thistask, especially in the case of non-pronominal co-reference, researchers have recently started to ex-ploit semantic knowledge, e.g.
trying to calculate1http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/ace/the semantic similarity of mentions (Ponzetto andStrube, 2006) or their semantic classes (Ng, 2007;Soon et al, 2001).
Up to now, WordNet has beenone of the most frequently used sources of se-mantic knowledge for the coreference resolutiontask (Soon et al, 2001; Ng and Cardie, 2002).
Re-searchers have shown, however, that WordNet hassome limits.
On one hand, although WordNet hasa big coverage of the English language in termsof common nouns, it still has a limited coverageof proper nouns (e.g.
Barack Obama is not avail-able in the on-line version) and entity descrip-tions (e.g.
president of India).
On the other handWordNet sense inventory is considered too fine-grained (Ponzetto and Strube, 2006; Mihalcea andMoldovan, 2001).
In alternative, it has been re-cently shown that Wikipedia can be a promisingsource of semantic knowledge for coreference res-olution between nominals (Ponzetto and Strube,2006).Consider some possible uses of Wikipedia.For example, knowing that the entity men-tion ?Obama?
is described on the Wikipediapage Barack_Obama2, one can benefit fromthe Wikipedia category structure.
Categories as-signed to the Barack_Obama page can be usedas semantic classes, e.g.
?21st-century presidentsof the United States?.
Another example of auseful Wikipedia feature are the links betweenWikipedia pages.
For instance, some Wikipediapages contain links to the Barack_Obama page.Anchor texts of these links can provide alterna-2The links to Wikipedia pages are given displaying onlythe last part of the link which corresponds to the title of thepage.
The complete link can be obtained adding this part tohttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.19tive names of this entity, e.g.
?Barack HusseinObama?
or ?Barack Obama Junior?.Naturally, in order to obtain semantic knowl-edge about an entity mention from Wikipediaone should link this mention to an appropriateWikipedia page, i.e.
to disambiguate it usingWikipedia as a sense inventory.
The accuracyof linking entity mentions to Wikipedia is a veryimportant issue.
For example, such linking is astep of the approach to coreference resolution de-scribed in (Bryl et al, 2010).
In order to evaluatethis accuracy in the framework of a coreferenceresolution system, a corpus of documents, whereentity mentions are annotated with ground-truthlinks to Wikipedia, is required.The possible solution of this problem is to ex-tend the annotation of entity mentions in a corefer-ence resolution corpus.
In the recent years, coref-erence resolution systems have been evaluated onvarious versions of the English Automatic ContentExtraction (ACE) corpus (Ponzetto and Strube,2006; Versley et al, 2008; Ng, 2007; Culotta etal., 2007; Bryl et al, 2010).
The latest publiclyavailable version is ACE 20053.In this paper we present an extension of ACE2005 non-pronominal entity mention annotationswith ground-truth links to Wikipedia.
This exten-sion is intended for evaluation of accuracy of link-ing entity mentions to Wikipedia pages.
The an-notation is currently in progress.
At the momentof writing this paper we have completed around55% of the work.
The extension can be exploitedby coreference resolution systems, which alreadyuse ACE 2005 corpus for development and testingpurposes, e.g.
(Bryl et al, 2010).
Moreover, En-glish ACE 2005 corpus is multi-purpose and canbe used in other information extraction (IE) tasksas well, e.g.
relation extraction.
Therefore, webelieve that our extension might also be useful forother IE tasks, which exploit semantic knowledge.In the following we start by providing a briefoverview of the existing corpora annotated withlinks to Wikipedia.
In Section 3 we describe somecharacteristics of the English ACE 2005 corpus,which are relevant to the creation of the extension.Next, we describe the general annotation princi-3http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2006T06ples and the procedure adopted to carry out theannotation.
In Section 4 we present some anal-yses of the annotation and statistics about Inter-Annotator Agreement.2 Related workRecent approaches to linking terms to Wikipediapages (Cucerzan, 2007; Csomai and Mihalcea,2008; Milne and Witten, 2008; Kulkarni et al,2009) have used two kinds of corpora for eval-uation of accuracy: (i) sets of Wikipedia pagesand (ii) manually annotated corpora.
In Wikipediapages links are added to terms ?only wherethey are relevant to the context?4.
Therefore,Wikipedia pages do not contain the full annotationof all entity mentions.
This observation appliesequally to the corpus used by (Milne and Wit-ten, 2008), which includes 50 documents from theAQUAINT corpus annotated following the samestrategy5.
The corpus created by (Cucerzan, 2007)contains annotation of named entities only6.
Itcontains 756 annotations, therefore for our pur-poses it is limited in terms of size.Kulkarni et al (2009) have annotated 109 doc-uments collected from homepages of various siteswith as many links as possible7.
Their annotationis too extensive for our purposes, since they do notlimit annotation to the entity mentions.
To tacklethis issue, one can use an automatic entity mentiondetector, however it is likely to introduce noise.3 Creating the extensionThe task consists of manually annotating thenon-pronominal mentions contained in the En-glish ACE 2005 corpus with links to appropriateWikipedia articles.
The objective of the work isto create an extension of ACE 2005, where all thementions contained in the ACE 2005 corpus aredisambiguated using Wikipedia as a sense reposi-tory to point to.
The extension is intended for the4http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style5http://www.nzdl.org/wikification/docs.html6http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/silviu/WebAssistant/TestData/7http://soumen.cse.iitb.ac.in/?soumen/doc/CSAW/20evaluation of accuracy of linking to Wikipedia inthe framework of a coreference resolution system.3.1 The English ACE 2005 CorpusThe English ACE 2005 corpus is composed of599 articles assembled from a variety of sourcesselected from broadcast news programs, newspa-pers, newswire reports, internet sources and fromtranscribed audio.
It contains the annotation of aseries of entities (person, location, organization)for a total of 15,382 different entities and 43,624mentions of these entities.
A mention is an in-stance of a textual reference to an object, whichcan be either named (e.g.
Barack Obama), nom-inal (e.g.
the president), or pronominal (e.g.
he,his, it).
An entity is an aggregate of all the men-tions which refer to one conceptual entity.
Beyondthe annotation of entities and mentions, ACE 05contains also the annotation of local co-referencefor the entities; this means that mentions whichrefer to the same entity in a document have beenmarked with the same ID.3.2 Annotating ACE 05 with WikipediaPagesFor the purpose of our task, not all theACE 05 mentions are annotated, but only thenamed (henceforth NAM) and nominal (hence-forth NOM) mentions.
The resulting additionalannotation layer will contain a total of 29,300mentions linked to Wikipedia pages.
As specif-ically regards the annotation of NAM mentions,information about local coreference contained inACE 05 has been exploited in order to speed upthe annotation process.
In fact, only the firstoccurrence of the NAM mentions in each doc-ument has been annotated and the annotation isthen propagated to all the other co-referring NAMmentions in the document.Finally, it must be noted that in ACE 05, givena complex entity description, both the full ex-tent of the mention (e.g.
president of the UnitedStates) and its syntactic head (e.g.
?president?
)are marked.
In our Wikipedia extension only thehead of the mention is annotated, while the full ex-tent of the mention is available from the originalACE 05 corpus.3.3 General Annotation PrinciplesDepending on the mention type to be annotated,i.e.
NAM or NOM, a different annotation strategyhas been followed.
Each mention of type NAMis annotated with a link to a Wikipedia page de-scribing the referred entity.
For instance, ?GeorgeBush?
is annotated with a link to the Wikipediapage George_W._Bush.NOM mentions are annotated with a link to theWikipedia page which provides a description ofits appropriate sense.
For instance, in the exam-ple ?I was driving Northwest of Baghdad and Ibumped into these guys going around the capi-tal?
the mention ?capital?
is linked to the pagewhich provides a description of its meaning, i.e.Capital_(political).
Note that the objectof linking is the textual description of an entity,and not the entity itself.
In the example, eventhough from the context it is clear that the mention?capital?
refers to Baghdad, we provide a link tothe concept of capital and not to the entity Bagdad.As a term can have both a more generic senseand a more specific one, depending on the contextin which it occurs, mentions of type NOM can of-ten be linked to more than one Wikipedia page.Whenever possible, the NOM mentions are anno-tated with a list of links to appropriate Wikipediapages in the given context.
In such cases, linksare sorted in order of relevance, where the firstlink corresponds to the most specific sense for thatterm in its context, and therefore is regarded as thebest choice.
For instance, for the NOM mentionhead ?President?
which in the context identifiesthe United States President George Bush the an-notation?s purpose is to provide a description ofthe item ?President?, so the following links areselected as appropriate: President_of_the_United_States and President.The correct interpretation of the term is strictlyrelated to the context in which the term occurs.While performing the annotation, the context ofthe entire document has always been exploited inorder to correctly identify the specific sense of themention.3.4 Annotation ProcedureThe annotation procedure requires that the men-tion string is searched in Wikipedia in order to21find the appropriate page(s) to be used for anno-tating the mention.
In the annotation exercise, theannotators have always taken into considerationthe context where a mention occurs, searching forboth the generic and the most specific sense of themention disambiguated in the context.
In fact, inthe example provided above, not only ?President?,but also ?President of the United States?
has beenqueried in Wikipedia as required by the context.Not only the context, but also some features ofWikipedia must be mentioned as they affect theannotation procedure:a.
One element which contributes to the choiceof the appropriate Wikipedia page(s) forone mention is the list of links proposed inWikipedia?s Disambiguation pages.
Disam-biguation pages are non-article pages whichare intended to allow the user to choose froma list of Wikipedia articles defining differentmeanings of a term, when the term is am-biguous.
Disambiguation pages cannot beused as links for the annotation as they arenot suitable for the purposes of this task.
Infact, the annotator?s task is to disambiguatethe meaning of the mention, so one link,pointing to a specific sense, is to be cho-sen. Disambiguation pages should always bechecked as they provide useful suggestionsin order to reach the appropriate link(s).b.
In the same way as Disambiguation pages,Wikitionary cannot be used as linking page,as it provides a list of possible senses for aterm and not only one specific sense which isnecessary to disambiguate the mention.c.
In Wikipedia, terms may be redirected toother terms which are related in terms ofmorphological derivation; i.e.
searching forthe term ?Senator?
you are automaticallyredirected to ?Senate?
; or querying ?citizen?you are automatically redirected to ?citizen-ship?.
Redirections have always been con-sidered appropriate links for the term.Some particular rules have been followed in orderto deal with specific cases in the annotation, whichare described below:1.
As explained before in Section 3.2, as a gen-eral rule the head of the ACE 05 mentionis annotated with Wikipedia links.
In thosecases where the syntactic head of the men-tion is a multiword lexical unit, the ACE 05practice is to mark as head only the rightmostitem of the multiword.
For instance, in thecase of the multiword ?flight attendant?
only?attendant?
is marked as head of the men-tion, although ?flight attendant?
is clearly amultiword lexical unit that should be anno-tated as one semantic whole.
In our anno-tation we take into account the meaning ofthe whole lexical unit; so, in the above exam-ple, the generic sense of ?attendant?
has notbeen given, whereas Flight_attendantis considered as the appropriate link.2.
In some cases, in ACE 2005 pronouns like?somebody?, ?anybody?, ?anyone?, ?one?,?others?, were incorrectly marked as NOM(instead of PRO).
Such cases, which amountto 117, have been marked with the tag ?NoAnnotation?.3.
When a page exists in Wikipedia for a givenmention but not for the specific sense in thatcontext the ?Missing sense?
annotation hasbeen used.
One example of ?Missing sense?is for instance the term ?heart?
which has 29links proposed in the ?Disambiguation page?touching different categories (sport, science,anthropology, gaming, etc.
), but there is nolink pointing to the sense of ?center or core ofsomething?
; so, when referring to the heartof a city, the term has been marked as ?Miss-ing sense?.4.
When no article exists in Wikipedia for agiven mention, the tag ?No page?
has beenadopted.5.
Nicknames, i.e.
descriptive names usedin place of or in addition to the officialname(s) of a person, have been treated asNAM.
Thus, even if nicknames look like de-scriptions of individuals (and their referenceshould not be solved, following the generalrule), they are actually used and annotated as22Number of annotated mentions 16310Number of single link mentions 13774Number of multi-link mentions 1458Number of ?No Page?
annotations 481Number of ?Missing Sense?
480annotationsNumber of ?No Annotation?
117annotationsTotal number of links 16851Total number of links in multi-link 3077mentionsTable 1: Annotation dataproper names aliases.
For example, given themention ?Butcher of Baghdad?, whose head?Butcher?
is to be annotated, the appropriateWikipedia link is Saddam_Hussein, auto-matically redirected from the searched string?Butcher of Baghdad?.
The link Butcheris not appropriate as it provides a descriptionof the mention.
It is interesting the fact thatWikipedia itself redirects to the page of Sad-dam Hussein.4 The ACE05-WIKI ExtensionUp to now, the 55% of the markable men-tions have been annotated by one annotator,amounting to 16,310 mentions.
This annotationhas been carried out by CELCT in a periodof two months from February 22 to April 30,2010, using the on-line version of Wikipedia,while the remaining 45% of the ACE mentionswill be annotated during August 2010.
Thecomplete annotation will be freely availableat: http://www.celct.it/resources.php?id_page=acewiki2010, while theACE 2005 corpus is distributed by LDC8.4.1 Annotation Data AnalysisTable 1 gives some statistics about the overallannotation.
In the following sections, mentionsannotated with one link are called ?single link?,whereas, mentions annotated with more than onelink are named ?multi-link?.These data refer to the annotation of each sin-gle mention.
It is not possible to give statis-tics at the entity level, as mentions have differ-8http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2006T06Annotation Mention TypeNAM NOMSingle link mentions 6589 7185Multi-link mentions 79 1379Missing sense 96 384No Page 440 41Table 2: Distinction of NAM and NOM in the an-notationent ID depending on the documents they belongto, and the information about the cross-documentco-reference is not available.
Moreover, mentionsof type NOM are annotated with different linksdepending on their disambiguated sense, makingthus impossible to group them together.Most mentions have been annotated with onlyone link; if we consider multi-link mentions, wecan say that each mention has been assigned anaverage of 2,11 links (3,077/1,458).Data about ?Missing sense?
and ?No page?are important as they provide useful informationabout the coverage of Wikipedia as sense in-ventory.
Considering both ?Missing sense?
and?No page?
annotations, the total number of men-tions which have not been linked to a Wikipediapage amounts to 6%, equally distributed between?Missing sense?
and ?No page?
annotations.
Thisfact proves that, regarded as a sense inventory,Wikipedia has a broad coverage.
As Table 2shows, the mentions for which more than one linkwas deemed appropriate are mostly of type NOM,while NAM mentions have been almost exclu-sively annotated with one link only.
The very fewcases in which a NAM mention is linked to morethan one Wikipedia page are primarily due to (i)mistakes in the ACE 05 annotation (for example,the mention ?President?
was erroneously markedas a NAM); (ii) or to cases where nouns markedas NAM could also be considered as NOMs (seefor instance the mention ?Marine?, to mean theMarine Corps).Table 2 provides also statistics about the ?Miss-ing sense?
and ?No page?
cases provided on men-tions divided among the NAM and NOM type.The ?missing sense?
annotation concerns mostlythe NOM category, whereas the NAM categoryis hardly affected.
This attests the fact that per-sons, locations and organizations are well repre-23sented in Wikipedia.
This is mainly due to theencyclopedic nature of Wikipedia where an arti-cle may be about a person, a concept, a place,an event, a thing etc.
; instead, information aboutnouns (NOM) is more likely to be found in adictionary, where information about the meaningsand usage of a term is provided.4.2 Inter-Annotator AgreementAbout 3,100 mentions, representing more than10% of the mentions to be annotated, have beenannotated by two annotators in order to calculateInter-Annotator Agreement.Once the annotations were completed, thetwo annotators carried out a reconciliation phasewhere they compared the two sets of links pro-duced.
Discrepancies in the annotation werechecked with the aim of removing only the morerough errors and oversights.
No changes havebeen made in the cases of substantial disagree-ment, which has been maintained.In order to measure Inter-Annotator Agree-ment, two metrics were used: (i) the Dice coeffi-cient to measure the agreements on the set of linksused in the annotation9 and (ii) two measures ofagreement calculated at the mention level, i.e.
onthe group of links associated to each mention.The Dice coefficient is computed as follows:Dice = 2C/(A + B)where C is the number of common links chosen bythe two annotators, while A and B are respectivelythe total number of links selected by the first andthe second annotator.
Table 3 shows the resultsobtained both before and after the reconciliation9The Dice coefficient is a typical measure used to com-pare sets in IR and is also used to calculate inter-annotatoragreement in a number of tasks where an assessor is allowedto select a set of labels to apply to each observation.
In fact,in these cases measures such as the widely used K are notgood to calculate agreement.
This is because K only offersa dichotomous distinction between agreement and disagree-ment, whereas what is needed is a coefficient that also allowsfor partial disagreement between judgments.
In fact, in ourcase we often have a partial agreement on the set of linksgiven for each mention.
Also considering only the mentionsfor which a single link has been chosen, it is not possibleto calculate K statistics in a straightforward way as the cate-gories (i.e.
the possible Wikipedia pages) in some cases can-not be determined a priori and are different for each mention.Due to these factors chance agreement cannot be calculatedin an appropriate way.BEFORE AFTERreconciliation reconciliationDICE 0.85 0.94Table 3: Statistics about Dice coefficientBEFORE AFTERreconciliation reconciliationComplete 77.98% 91.82%On first link 84.41% 95.58%Table 4: Agreement at the mention levelprocess.
Agreement before reconciliation is satis-factory and shows the feasibility of the annotationtask and the reliability of the annotation scheme.Two measures of agreement at the mentionlevel are also calculated.
To this purpose, wecount the number of mentions where annotatorsagree, as opposed to considering the agreement oneach link separately.
Mention-level agreement iscalculated as follows:Number of mentions with annotation in agreementTotal number of annotated mentionsWe calculate both ?complete?
agreement andagreement on the first link.
As regards the firstmeasure, a mention is considered in completeagreement if (i) it has been annotated with thesame link(s) and (ii) in the case of multi-link men-tions, links are given in the same order.
As for thesecond measure, there is agreement on a mentionif both the annotators chose the same first link (i.e.the one judged as the most appropriate), regard-less of other possible links assigned to that men-tion.
Table 4 provides data about both completeagreement and first link agreement, calculated be-fore and after the annotators reconciliation.4.3 Disagreement AnalysisConsidering the 3,144 double-annotated men-tions, the cases of disagreements amount to 692(22,02%) before the reconciliation while they arereduced to 257 (8,18%) after that process.
It is in-teresting to point out that the disagreements affectthe mentions of type NOM in most of the cases,whereas mentions of type NAM are involved onlyin 3,8% of the cases.Examining the two annotations after the recon-ciliation, it is possible to distinguish three kindsof disagreement which are shown in Table 5 to-24Number ofDisagreement type Disagreements1) No matching in the link(s)proposed105 (40,85%)2) No matching on the first link,but at least one of the other linksis the same14 (5,45%)3) Matching on the first link andmismatch on the number of ad-ditional links138 (53,70%)Total Disagreements 257Table 5: Types of disagreementsgether with the data about their distribution.
Anexample of disagreement of type (1) is the anno-tation of the mention ?crossing?, in the followingcontext: ?Marines from the 1st division have se-cured a key Tigris River Crossing?.
Searching forthe word ?river crossing?
in the Wikipedia search-box, the Disambiguation Page is opened and alist of possible links referring to more specificsenses of the term are offered, while the generic?river crossing?
sense is missing.
The annota-tors are required to choose just one of the possi-ble senses provided and they chose two differentlinks pointing to pages of more specific senses:{Ford_%28river%29} and {Bridge}.Another example is represented by the annota-tion of the mention ?area?
in the context : ?Bothaircraft fly at 125 miles per hour gingerly over en-emy area?.
In Wikipedia no page exists for thespecific sense of ?area?
appropriate in the con-text.
Searching for ?area?
in Wikipedia, the pageobtained is not suitable, and the Disambiguationpage offers a list of various possible links to eithermore specific or more general senses of the term.One annotator judged the more general Wikipediapage Area_(subnational_entity) as ap-propriate to annotate the mention, while the sec-ond annotator deemed the page not suitable andthus used the ?Missing sense?
annotation.Disagreement of type (2) refers to cases whereat least one of the links proposed by the annota-tors is the same, but the first (i.e.
the one judgedas the most suitable) is different.
Given the fol-lowing context: ?Tom, You know what Liber-als want?, the two annotation sets provided forthe mention ?Liberal?
are: {Liberalism} and{Liberal_Party, Modern_liberalism_in_the_United_States, Liberalism}.The first annotator provided only one link forthe mention ?liberal?, which is different from thefirst link provided by second annotator.
However,the second annotator provided also other links,among which there is the link provided by the firstannotator.Another example is represented by the annota-tion of the mention ?killer?.
Given the context:?He?d be the 11th killer put to death in Texas?, thetwo annotators provided the following link sets:{Assassination, Murder} and {Murder}.Starting from the Wikipedia disambiguation page,the two annotators agreed on the choice of one ofthe links but not on the first one.Disagreement of type (3) refers to cases whereboth annotators agree on the first link, correspond-ing to the most specific sense, but one of themalso added link(s) considered appropriate to an-notate the mention.
Given the context: ?7th Cav-alry has just taken three Iraqi prisoners?, the an-notations provided for the term ?prisoners?
are:{Prisoner_of_war} and {Prisoner_of_war, Incarceration}.
This happens whenmore than one Wikipedia pages are appropriate todescribe the mention.As regards the causes of disagreement, we seethat the cases of disagreement mentioned aboveare due to two main reasons:a.
The lack of the appropriate sense inWikipedia for the given mentionb.
The different interpretation of the context inwhich the mention occurs.In cases of type (a) the annotators adopted differ-ent strategies to perform their task, that is:i. they selected a more general sense (i.e.?area?
which has been annotated withArea_(subnational_entity)),ii.
they selected a more specific sense (see forexample the annotations of the mentions?river crossing?).iii.
they selected the related senses proposed bythe Wikipedia Disambiguation page (as inthe annotation of ?killer?
in the exampleabove).25Disagreement Reas.
a Reas.
b Tottype (see above)1) No match 95 10 1052) No match on 4 10 14first link3) Mismatch on 138 138additional linksTotal 99 158 257(38,5%) (61,5%)Table 6: Distribution of disagreements accordingto their causeiv.
they used the tag ?Missing sense?.As Wikipedia is constantly evolving, addingnew pages and consequently new senses, it isreasonable to think that the considered elementsmight find the appropriate specific/general link astime goes by.Case (b) happens when the context is ambigu-ous and the information provided in the text al-lows different possible readings of the mentionto be annotated, making thus difficult to disam-biguate its sense.
These cases are independentfrom Wikipedia sense repository but are related tothe subjectivity of the annotators and to the inher-ent ambiguity of text.Table 6 shows the distribution of disagreementsaccording to their cause.
Disagreements of type 1and 2 can be due to both a and b reasons, whiledisagreements of type 3 are only due to b.The overall number of disagreements showsthat the cases where the two annotators did notagree are quite limited, amounting only to 8%.The analyses of the disagreements show somecharacteristics of Wikipedia considered as senserepository.
As reported in Table 8, in the 61,5%of the cases of disagreement, the different anno-tations are caused by the diverse interpretationof the context and not by the lack of senses inWikipedia.
It is clear that Wikipedia has a goodcoverage and it proves to be a good sense disam-biguation tool.
In some cases it reveals to be toofine-grained and in other cases it remains at a moregeneral level.5 ConclusionThis paper has presented an annotation workwhich connects an existing annotated corpus suchas the English ACE 2005 dataset to a Collabo-ratively Constructed Semantic Resource such asWikipedia.
Thanks to this connection Wikipediabecomes an essential semantic resource for thetask of coreference resolution.
On one hand, bytaking advantage of the already existing annota-tions, with a relatively limited additional effort,we enriched an existing corpus and made it usefulfor a new NLP task which was not planned whenthe corpus was created.
On the other hand, ourwork allowed us to explore and better understandcertain characteristics of the Wikipedia resource.For example we were able to demonstrate in quan-titative terms that Wikipedia has a very good cov-erage, at least as far as the kind of entity men-tions which are contained in the ACE 2005 dataset(newswire) is concerned.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to these results has re-ceived funding from the ITCH project (http://itch.fbk.eu), sponsored by the Italian Min-istry of University and Research and by the Au-tonomous Province of Trento and the Copiloskproject (http://copilosk.fbk.eu), a JointResearch Project under Future Internet - Internetof Content program of the Information Technol-ogy Center, Fondazione Bruno Kessler.We thank Giovanni Moretti from CELCT fortechnical assistance.ReferencesBryl, Volha, Claudio Giuliano, Luciano Serafini, andKateryna Tymoshenko.
2010.
Using backgroundknowledge to support coreference resolution.
InProceedings of the 19th European Conference onArtificial Intelligence (ECAI 2010), August.Csomai, Andras and Rada Mihalcea.
2008.
Linkingdocuments to encyclopedic knowledge.
IEEE Intel-ligent Systems, 23(5):34?41.Cucerzan, Silviu.
2007.
Large-scale named entitydisambiguation based on Wikipedia data.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2007 Joint Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing and Com-putational Natural Language Learning (EMNLP-CoNLL), pages 708?716, Prague, Czech Republic,June.
Association for Computational Linguistics.26Culotta, Aron, Michael L. Wick, and Andrew McCal-lum.
2007.
First-order probabilistic models forcoreference resolution.
In Human Language Tech-nology Conference of the North American Chap-ter of the Association of Computational Linguistics,pages 81?88.Fellbaum, Christiane, editor.
1998.
WordNet: an elec-tronic lexical database.
MIT Press.Kulkarni, Sayali, Amit Singh, Ganesh Ramakrishnan,and Soumen Chakrabarti.
2009.
Collective anno-tation of wikipedia entities in web text.
In KDD?09: Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD inter-national conference on Knowledge discovery anddata mining, pages 457?466, New York, NY, USA.ACM.Mihalcea, Rada and Dan I. Moldovan.
2001.Ez.wordnet: Principles for automatic generation ofa coarse grained wordnet.
In Russell, Ingrid andJohn F. Kolen, editors, FLAIRS Conference, pages454?458.
AAAI Press.Milne, David and Ian H. Witten.
2008.
Learningto link with wikipedia.
In CIKM ?08: Proceed-ing of the 17th ACM conference on Information andknowledge management, pages 509?518, New York,NY, USA.
ACM.Ng, Vincent and Claire Cardie.
2002.
Improving ma-chine learning approaches to coreference resolution.In ACL ?02: Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meet-ing on Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 104?111.Ng, Vincent.
2007.
Semantic class induction andcoreference resolution.
In ACL 2007, Proceed-ings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, June 23-30, 2007,Prague, Czech Republic, pages 536?543.Ponzetto, S. P. and M. Strube.
2006.
Exploiting se-mantic role labeling, WordNet and Wikipedia forcoreference resolution.
Proceedings of the mainconference on Human Language Technology Con-ference of the North American Chapter of the As-sociation of Computational Linguistics, pages 192?199.Soon, Wee Meng, Hwee Tou Ng, and DanielChung Yong Lim.
2001.
A machine learning ap-proach to coreference resolution of noun phrases.Computational Linguistic, 27(4):521?544.Versley, Yannick, Simone Paolo Ponzetto, MassimoPoesio, Vladimir Eidelman, Alan Jern, Jason Smith,Xiaofeng Yang, and Alessandro Moschitti.
2008.Bart: a modular toolkit for coreference resolution.In Proceedings of the 46th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics on Hu-man Language Technologies, pages 9?12.27
