Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 46?54,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsArguments of Nominals in Semantic Interpretation of Biomedical TextHalil Kilicoglu,1,2 Marcelo Fiszman,2 Graciela Rosemblat,2Sean Marimpietri,3 Thomas C. Rindflesch21Concordia University, Montreal, QC, Canada2National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, MD, USA3University of California, Berkeley, CA, USAh_kilico@cse.concordia.ca, sean.marimpietri@gmail.com{fiszmanm,grosemblat,trindflesch}@mail.nih.govAbstractBased on linguistic generalizations, weenhanced an existing semantic processor,SemRep, for effective interpretation of awide range of patterns used to expressarguments of nominalization in clinicallyoriented biomedical text.
Nominaliza-tions are pervasive in the scientific litera-ture, yet few text mining systems ade-quately address them, thus missing awealth of information.
We evaluated thesystem by assessing the algorithm inde-pendently and by determining its contri-bution to SemRep generally.
The firstevaluation demonstrated the strength ofthe method through an F-score of 0.646(P=0.743, R=0.569), which is more than20 points higher than the baseline.
Thesecond evaluation showed that overallSemRep results were increased to F-score0.689 (P=0.745, R=0.640), approximate-ly 25 points better than processing with-out nominalizations.1 IntroductionExtracting semantic relations from text andrepresenting them as predicate-argument struc-tures is increasingly seen as foundational formining the biomedical literature (Kim et al,2008).
Most research has focused on relationsindicated by verbs (Wattarujeekrit et al, 2004;Kogan et al, 2005).
However nominalizations,gerunds, and relational nouns also take argu-ments.
For example, the following sentence hasthree nominalizations, treatment, suppression,and lactation (nominalized forms of the verbstreat, suppress, and lactate, respectively).
Agon-ist is derived from agonize, but indicates anagent rather than an event.Bromocriptine, an ergot alkaloid dopamineagonist, is a recent common treatment forsuppression of lactation in postpartum wom-en.In promoting economy of expression, nomina-lizations are pervasive in scientific discourse,particularly the molecular biology sublanguage,due to the highly nested and complex biomolecu-lar interactions described (Friedman et al, 2002).However, Cohen et al (2008) point out that no-minalizations are more difficult to process thanverbs.
Although a few systems deal with them,the focus is often limited in both the nominaliza-tions recognized and the patterns used to expresstheir arguments.
Inability to interpret nominalconstructions in a general way limits the effec-tiveness of such systems, since a wealth ofknowledge is missed.In this paper, we discuss our recent work oninterpreting nominal forms and their arguments.We concentrate on nominalizations; however, theanalysis also applies to other argument-takingnouns.
Based on training data, we developed aset of linguistic generalizations and enhanced anexisting semantic processor, SemRep, for effec-tive interpretation of a wide range of patternsused to express arguments of nominalization inclinically oriented biomedical text.
We evaluatedthe enhancements in two ways: by examining theability to identify arguments of nominals inde-pendently and the effect these enhancements hadon the overall quality of SemRep output.2 BackgroundThe theoretical linguistics literature has ad-dressed the syntax of nominalizations (e.g.Chomsky, 1970; Grimshaw, 1990; Grimshawand Williams, 1993), however, largely as supportfor theoretical argumentation, rather than de-tailed description of the facts.
Quirk et al (1985)concentrate on the morphological derivation of46nominalizations from verbs.
Within the contextof NomBank, a project dedicated to annotation ofargument structure, Meyers et al (2004a) de-scribe the linguistics of nominalizations, empha-sizing semantic roles.
However, major syntacticpatterns of argument realization are also noted.Cohen et al (2008) provide a comprehensiveoverview of nominalizations in biomedical text.They include a review of the relevant literature,and discuss a range of linguistic considerations,including morphological derivation, passiviza-tion, transitivity, and semantic topics (e.g.agent/instrument (activator) vs. ac-tion/process/state (activation)).
Based on ananalysis of the PennBioIE corpus (Kulick et al,2004), detailed distributional results are providedon alternation patterns for several nominaliza-tions with high frequency of occurrence in bio-medical text, such as activation and treatment.In computational linguistics, PUNDIT (Dahlet al, 1987) exploited similarities between nomi-nalizations and related verbs.
Hull and Gomez(1996) describe semantic interpretation for a li-mited set of nominalizations, relying on Word-Net (Fellbaum, 1998) senses for restricting fillersof semantic roles.
Meyers et al (1998) present aprocedure which maps syntactic and semanticinformation for verbs into a set of patterns fornominalizations.
They use NOMLEX (MacLeodet al, 1998), a nominalization lexicon, as the ba-sis for this transformation.
More recently, theavailability of the NomBank corpus (Meyers etal., 2004b) has supported supervised machinelearning for nominal semantic role labeling (e.g.Pradhan et al, 2004; Jiang and Ng, 2006; Liuand Ng, 2007).
In contrast, Pad?
et al (2008) useunsupervised machine learning for semantic rolelabeling of eventive nominalizations by exploit-ing similarities between the argument structureof event nominalizations and correspondingverbs.
Gurevich and Waterman (2009) use alarge parsed corpus of Wikipedia to derive lexi-cal models for determining the underlying argu-ment structure of nominalizations.Nominalizations have only recently garneredattention in biomedical language processing.
Ge-neScene (Leroy and Chen, 2005) considers onlyarguments of nominalizations marked by prepo-sitional cues.
Similarly, Schuman and Bergler(2006) focus on the problem of prepositionalphrase attachment.
In the BioNLP?09 SharedTask on Event Extraction (Kim et al, 2009), themost frequent predicates were nominals.
Severalparticipating systems discuss techniques that ac-commodate nominalizations (e.g.
K. B. Cohen etal., 2009; Kilicoglu and Bergler, 2009).
Nomina-lizations have not previously been addressed inclinically oriented text.2.1 SemRepSemRep (Rindflesch and Fiszman, 2003) auto-matically extracts semantic predications (logicalsubject-predicate-logical object triples) from un-structured text (titles and abstracts) of MED-LINE citations.
It uses domain knowledge fromthe Unified Medical Language System?
(UMLS?)
(Bodenreider, 2004), and the interaction ofthis knowledge and (underspecified) syntacticstructure supports a robust system.
SemRep ex-tracts a range of semantic predications relating toclinical medicine (e.g.
TREATS, DIAGNOSES, AD-MINISTERED_TO, PROCESS_OF, LOCATION_OF),substance interactions (INTERACTS_WITH, INHI-BITS, STIMULATES), and genetic etiology of dis-ease (ASSOCIATED_WITH, PREDISPOSES, CAUS-ES).
For example, the program identifies the fol-lowing predications from input text MRI re-vealed a lacunar infarction in the left internalcapsule.
Arguments are concepts from theUMLS Metathesaurus and predicates are rela-tions from the Semantic Network.Magnetic Resonance Imaging DIAGNOSES Infarc-tion, LacunarInternal Capsule LOCATION_OF Infarction, Lacu-narProcessing relies on an underspecified syntac-tic analysis based on the UMLS SPECIALISTLexicon (McCray et al, 1994) and the MedPostpart-of-speech tagger (Smith et al, 2004).
Outputincludes phrase identification, and for simplenoun phrases, labeling of heads and modifiers.
[HEAD(MRI)] [revealed] [a MOD(lacunar),HEAD(infarction)] [in the MOD(left) MOD(internal),HEAD(capsule).
]MetaMap (Aronson and Lang, 2010) maps sim-ple noun phrases to UMLS Metathesaurus con-cepts, as shown below.
Associated semantictypes are particularly important for subsequentprocessing.
[HEAD(MRI){Magnetic Resonance Imaging (Di-agnostic Procedure)}] [revealed] [aMOD(lacunar), HEAD(infarction) {Infarction, Lacu-nar(Disease or Syndrome)}] [in the MOD(left)MOD(internal), HEAD(capsule) {Internal Cap-sule(Body Part, Organ, or Organ Component)}.
]47This structure is the basis for extracting semanticpredications, which relies on several mechan-isms.
Indicator rules map syntactic phenomena,such as verbs, nominalizations, prepositions, andmodifier-head structure in the simple nounphrase to ontological predications.
Examples in-clude:reveal (verb) ?
DIAGNOSESin (prep) ?
LOCATION_OFSemRep currently has 630 indicator rules.
Onto-logical predications are based on a modified ver-sion of the UMLS Semantic Network and havesemantic types as arguments.
For example:Diagnostic Procedure DIAGNOSES Disease orSyndromeBody Part, Organ, or Organ Component LOCA-TION_OF Disease or SyndromeConstruction of a semantic predication beginswith the application of an indicator rule, and isthen constrained by two things.
Arguments mustsatisfy syntactic restrictions for the indicator andmust have been mapped to Metathesaurus con-cepts that match the arguments of the ontologicalpredication indicated.
As part of this processing,several syntactic phenomena are addressed, in-cluding passivization, argument coordination,and some types of relativization.
For both verband preposition indicators, underspecified syn-tactic rules simply ensure that subjects are on theleft and objects on the right.
Enhancing SemRepfor nominalizations involved extending the syn-tactic constraints for arguments of nominaliza-tion indicators.3 MethodsIn order to gain insight into the principles under-lying expression of nominal arguments, we firstdetermined the 50 most common nominalizationsin MEDLINE citations that also occur in theUMLS SPECIALIST Lexicon, and then analyzeda corpus of 1012 sentences extracted from 476citations containing those nominalizations.
Wefurther limited these sentences to those with no-minalizations containing two overt arguments(since SemRep only extracts predications withtwo arguments), resulting in a final set of 383sentences.
We determined 14 alternation patternsfor nominalizations based on this analysis anddevised an algorithm to accommodate them.
Wethen conducted two evaluations, one to assess theeffectiveness of the algorithm independently ofother considerations and another to assess thecontribution of enhanced nominalizationprocessing to SemRep generally.3.1 Nominal AlternationsMuch work in identifying arguments of nomina-lizations assigns semantic role, such as agent,patient, etc., but SemRep does not.
In this analy-sis, arguments are logical subject and object.
Re-lational nouns often allow only one argument(e.g.
the weight of the evidence), and either oneor both of the arguments of a nominalization orgerund may be left unexpressed.
SemRep doesn?tinterpret nominalizations with unexpressed ar-guments.
If both arguments appear, they fall intoone of several patterns, and the challenge in no-minalization processing is to accommodate thesepatterns.
Cohen et al (2008) note several suchpatterns, including those in which both argu-ments are to the right of the nominalization, cuedby prepositions (treatment of fracture with sur-gery), the nominalization separates the argu-ments (fracture treatment with surgery, surgicaltreatment for fracture), and both arguments pre-cede the nominalizations, as modifiers of it (sur-gical fracture treatment and fracture surgicaltreatment).Cohen et al (2008) do not list several patternswe observed in the clinical domain, includingthose in which the subject appears to the rightmarked by a verb (the treatment of fracture issurgery) or as an appositive (the treatment offracture, surgery), and those in which the subjectappears to the left and the nominalization is ei-ther in a prepositional phrase (surgery in thetreatment of fracture, surgery in fracture treat-ment) or is preceded by a verb or is parenthetical(surgery is (the best) treatment for fracture; sur-gery is (the best) fracture treatment; surgery, thebest fracture treatment).
One pattern, in whichboth arguments are on the right and the subjectprecedes the object, is seen most commonly inthe clinical domain when the nominalization hasa lexically specified cue (e.g.
the contribution ofstem cells to kidney repair).
The nominal alterna-tion patterns are listed in Table 1.Generalizations about arguments of nominali-zations are based on the position of the argu-ments, both with respect to each other and to thenominalization, and whether they modify thenominalization or not.
A modifying argument isinternal to the simple noun phrase of which thenominalization is the head; other arguments(both to the left and to the right) are external.
(Relativization is considered external to the sim-ple noun phrase.
)48[NOM] [PREP OBJ] [PREP SUBJ]Treatment of fracture with surgery[NOM] [PREP OBJ], [SUBJ]The treatment of fracture, surgery[NOM] [PREP OBJ] ([SUBJ])The treatment of fracture (surgery)[NOM] [PREP OBJ] [BE] [SUBJ]The treatment of fracture is surgery[NOM] [PREP SUBJ] [PREP OBJ]Treatment with surgery of fracture[SUBJ NOM] [PREP OBJ]Surgical treatment of fracture[SUBJ] [PREP NOM] [PREP OBJ]Surgery in the treatment of fracture[SUBJ] [BE] [NOM] [PREP OBJ]Surgery is the treatment of fracture[OBJ NOM] [BE] [SUBJ]Fracture treatment is surgery[OBJ NOM] [PREP SUBJ]Fracture treatment with surgery[SUBJ] [PREP OBJ NOM]Surgery for fracture treatment[SUBJ] [BE] [OBJ NOM]Surgery is the fracture treatment[SUBJ OBJ NOM]Surgical fracture treatment[OBJ SUBJ NOM]Fracture surgical treatmentTable 1.
PatternsArgument cuing plays a prominent role in de-fining these patterns.
A cue is an overt syntacticelement associated with an argument, and can bea preposition, a verb (most commonly a form ofbe), a comma, or parenthesis.
A cued argument isin a dependency with the cue, which is itself in adependency with the nominalization.
The cuemust occur between the nominalization and theargument, whether the argument is to the right(e.g.
treatment of fracture) or to the left (e.g.surgery in the treatment).
Prepositional cues forthe objects of some nominalizations are stipu-lated in the lexicon; some of these are obligatory(e.g.
contribution ?
to), while others are optional(treatment ?
for).External arguments of nominalizations mustbe cued, and cues unambiguously signal the roleof the argument, according to the followingcuing rules (Cohen et al, 2008).
Verbs, comma,parenthesis, and the prepositions by, with, andvia cue subjects only.
(By is used for semanticrole agent and with for instrument, but SemRepdoes not exploit this distinction.)
Of cues sub-jects only if the nominalization has an obligatory(object) cue; it must cue objects otherwise.
Thereis a class of nominalizations (e.g.
cause) that donot allow a prepositionally cued subject.
Consi-derable variation is seen in the order of subjectand object; however, if the subject intervenesbetween the nominalization and the object, bothmust have equal cuing status (the only possibili-ties are that both be either uncued or cued with apreposition).3.2 AlgorithmIn extending SemRep for identifying argumentsof nominalizations, existing machinery was ex-ploited, namely shallow parsing, mapping simplenoun phrases to Metathesaurus concepts, and theapplication of indicator rules to map nominaliza-tions to enhanced Semantic Network ontologicalpredications (which imposes restrictions on thesemantic type of arguments).
Finally, syntacticargument identification was enhanced specifical-ly for nominalizations and exploits the linguisticgeneralizations noted.
For example in the sen-tence below, phrases have been identified andcervical cancer has been mapped to the Metathe-saurus concept ?Cervix carcinoma?
with seman-tic type ?Neoplastic Process?, and vaccination to?Vaccination?
(?Therapeutic or Preventive Pro-cedure?).
An indicator rule for prevention mapsto the ontological predication ?Therapeutic orPreventive Procedure PREVENTS NeoplasticProcess?
(among others) in generating the predi-cation: ?Vaccination PREVENTS Cervix carcino-ma.
?Therefore, prevention of cervical cancer withHPV vaccination may have a significant fi-nancial impact.Processing to identify arguments for preven-tion begins by determining whether the nomina-lization has a lexically specified object cue.
Thisinformation is needed to determine the cuingfunction of of.
Since it is common for there to beat least one argument on the right, identificationof arguments begins there.
Arguments on theright are external and must be cued.
If a cuedargument is found, its role is determined by theargument cuing rules.
Since prevention does nothave a lexically specified cue, of marks its ob-ject.
Further, the semantic type of the concept forthe object of of matches the object of the onto-logical predication (?Neoplastic Process?
).The algorithm next looks to the right of thefirst argument for the second argument.
Sinceprocessing addresses only two arguments fornominalizations, subject and object, once the role49of the first has been determined, the second canbe inferred.
For cued arguments, the processchecks that the cue is compatible with the cuingrules.
In all cases, the relevant semantic typemust match the subject of the ontological predi-cation.
In this instance, with cues subjects and?Therapeutic or Preventive Process?
matches thesubject of the ontological predication indicated.If only one noun phrase to the right satisfiesthe argument cuing rules, the second argumentmust be on the left.
A modifier immediately tothe left of the nominalization (and thus an inter-nal argument) is sought first, and its role inferredfrom the first argument.
Since internal argumentsare not cued, there is no need to ensure cuingcompatibility.
The predication ?Operative Sur-gical Procedures TREATS Pregnancy, Ectopic?is found for resolution inSurgical resolution of an ectopic pregnancyin a captive gerenuk (Litocranius walleri wal-leri).Resolution is an indicator for the ontologicalpredication ?Therapeutic or Preventive Proce-dure TREATS Disease or Syndrome.?
Surgicalmaps to ?Operative Surgical Procedures?
(?The-rapeutic or Preventive Procedure?
), whichmatches the subject of this predication, and ec-topic pregnancy maps to ?Pregnancy, Ectopic?
(?Disease or Syndrome?
), which matches its ob-ject.
Of marks the object of resolution.An argument to the left of a nominalizationmay be external, in which case a cue is neces-sary.
For preceding treatment satisfies this re-quirement in the following sentence.Preclinical data have supported the use offludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC) incombination for the treatment of indolentlymphoid malignancies.The two drugs in this sentence map to conceptswith semantic type ?Pharmacologic Substance?and the malignancy has ?Neoplastic Process?, asabove.
There is an ontological predication forTREATS with subject ?Pharmacologic Substance?.After coordination processing in SemRep, twopredications are generated for treatment:Cyclophosphamide TREATS Malignant lymphoidneoplasmFludarabine TREATS Malignant lymphoid neop-lasmIf there is no argument to the right, both ar-guments must be on the left.
A modifier imme-diately to the left of the nominalization is soughtfirst.
Given the properties of cuing (the cue in-tervenes between the argument and the nominali-zation), if both arguments occur to the left, atleast one of them must be internal, since it is notpossible to have more than one external argu-ment on the left (e.g.
*Surgery is fracture fortreatment).
The role of the first argument isfound based on semantic type.
The first modifierto the left of treatment in the following sentenceis epilepsy, which has semantic type ?Disease orSyndrome?, matching the object of the ontologi-cal predication for TREATS.Patients with most chances of benefiting fromsurgical epilepsy treatmentThe second modifier to the left, surgical maps tothe concept ?Operative Surgical Procedures,?whose semantic type matches the subject of theontological predication.
These conditions allowconstruction of the predication ?Operative Sur-gical Procedures TREATS Epilepsy.
?In the next sentence, the indicator rule for pre-diction maps to the ontological predication?Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein PREDISPOSESDisease or Syndrome.
?The potential clinical role of measuring theseapolipoproteins for ischemic stroke predic-tion warrants further study.Ischemic stroke satisfies the object of this predi-cation and apolipoproteins the subject.
Since theexternal subject is cued by for, all constraints aresatisfied and the predication ?ApolipoproteinsPREDISPOSES Ischemic stroke?
is generated.3.3 EvaluationThree-hundred sentences from 239 MEDLINEcitations (titles and abstracts) were selected forannotating a test set.
Some had previously beenselected for various aspects of SemRep evalua-tion; others were chosen randomly.
A smallnumber (30) were sentences in the GENIA eventcorpus (Kim et al, 2008) with bio-event-triggering nominalizations.
Annotation was con-ducted by three of the authors.
One, a linguist(A), judged all sentences, while the other two, acomputer scientist (B) and a medical informaticsresearcher (C), annotated a subset.
Annotationwas not limited to nominalizations.
The statisticsregarding the individual annotations are givenbelow.
The numbers in parentheses show thenumber of annotated predications indicated bynominalizations.50Annotator # of Sentences # of PredicationsA  300 533 (286)B 200 387 (190)C 132 244 (134)Table 2.
Annotation statisticsAs guidance, annotators were provided UMLSMetathesaurus concepts for the sentences.
How-ever, they consulted the Metathesaurus directlyto check questionable mappings.
Annotation fo-cused on the 25 predicate types SemRep ad-dresses.We measured inter-annotator agreement, de-fined as the F-score of one set of annotations,when the second is taken as the gold standard.After individual annotations were complete, twoannotators (A and C) assessed all three sets ofannotations and created the final reference stan-dard.
The reference standard has 569 predica-tions, 300 of which (52.7%) are indicated bynominalizations.
We further measured theagreement between individual sets of annotationsand the reference standard.
Results are given be-low:Annotator pair # of Sentences IAAA-B  200 0.794A-C 132 0.974B-C 103 0.722A-Gold 300 0.925B-Gold 200 0.889C-Gold 132 0.906Table 3.
Inter-annotator agreementWe performed two evaluations.
The first (ev-al1) evaluated nominalizations in isolation, whilethe second (eval2) assessed the effect of the en-hancements on overall semantic interpretation inSemRep.
For eval1, we restricted SemRep toextract predications indicated by nominalizationsonly.
The baseline was a nominalization argu-ment identification rule which simply stipulatesthat the subject of a predicate is a concept to theleft (starting from the modifier of the nominali-zation, if any), and the object is a concept to theright.
This baseline implements the underspecifi-cation principle of SemRep, without any addi-tional logic.
We compared the results from thisbaseline to those from the algorithm describedabove to identify arguments of nominalizations.The gold standard for eval1 was limited to predi-cations indicated by nominalizations.We investigated the effect of nominalizationprocessing on SemRep generally in eval2, forwhich the baseline implementation was SemRepwith no nominalization processing.
The resultsfor this baseline were evaluated against thoseobtained using SemRep with no restrictions.Typical evaluation metrics, precision, recall, andF-score, were calculated.4 Results and DiscussionThe results for the two evaluations are presentedbelow.Precision Recall F-Scoreeval1Baseline 0.484 0.359 0.412With NOM 0.743 0.569 0.645eval2Baseline 0.640 0.333 0.438With NOM 0.745 0.640 0.689Table 4.
Evaluation resultsResults illustrate the importance of nominali-zation processing for effectiveness of semanticinterpretation and show that the SemRep metho-dology naturally extends to this phenomenon.With a single, simple, rule (eval1 baseline), Se-mRep achieves an F-score of 0.412.
With addi-tional processing based on linguistic generaliza-tions, F-score improves more than 20 points.Further, the addition of nominalizationprocessing not only enhances the coverage ofSemRep (more than 30 points), but also increasesprecision (more than 10 points).
While nominali-zations are generally considered more difficult toprocess than verbs (Cohen et al, 2008), we wereable to accommodate them with greater precisionthan other types of indicators, including verbs(0.743 vs. 0.64 in eval1 with NOM vs. eval2baseline) with our patterns.Precision Recall F-Scoreeval1Baseline 0.233 0.140 0.175With NOM 0.690 0.400 0.506eval2Baseline (NoNOM)0.667 0.278 0.392With NOM 0.698 0.514 0.592Table 5.
Results for molecular biology sentencesLimiting the evaluation to sentences focusing onbiomolecular interactions (from GENIA), whilenot conclusive due to the small number of sen-tences (30), also shows similar patterns, asshown in Table 5.
As expected, while overall51quality of predications is lower, since molecularbiology text is significantly more complex thanthat in the clinical domain, improvements withnominalization processing are clearly seen.Errors were mostly due to aspects of SemReporthogonal to but interacting with nominalizationprocessing.
Complex coordination structure wasthe main source of recall errors, as in the follow-ing example.RESULTS: The best predictors of incidentmetabolic syndrome were waist circumfe-rence (odds ratio [OR] 1.7 [1.3-2.0] per 11cm), HDL cholesterol (0.6 [0.4-0.7] per 15mg/dl), and proinsulin (1.7 [1.4-2.0] per 3.3pmol/l).
[PMID 14988303]While the system was able to identify the predi-cation ?Waist circumference PREDISPOSESMetabolic syndrome,?
it was unable to find thepredications below, due to its inability to identifythe coordination of waist circumference, HDLcholesterol, and proinsulin.
(FN) Proinsulin PREDISPOSES Metabolic syn-drome(FN) High Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol PRE-DISPOSES Metabolic syndromeMapping of noun phrases to the correct UMLSconcepts (MetaMap) is a source of both falsepositives and false negatives, particularly in thecontext of the molecular biology sentences,where acronyms and abbreviations are commonand their disambiguation is nontrivial (Okazakiet al, 2010).
For example, in the following sen-tencePTK inhibition with Gen attenuated bothLPS-induced NF-kappaB DNA binding andTNF-alpha production in human monocytes.
[PMID 10210645]PTK was mapped to ?Ephrin receptor EphA8?rather than to ?Protein Tyrosine Kinase?, causingboth a false positive and a false negative.
(FP) Genistein INHIBITS Ephrin receptor EphA8(FN) Genistein INHIBITS Protein Tyrosine KinaseSome errors were due to failure to recognize arelative clause by SemRep.
Only the head ofsuch a structure is allowed to be an argumentoutside the structure.
In the sentence below, thesubject of treatment is hyperthermic intraperito-neal intraoperative chemotherapy, which is thehead of the reduced relative clause, after cytore-ductive surgery.Hyperthermic intraperitoneal intraoperativechemotherapy after cytoreductive surgery forthe treatment of abdominal sarcomatosis:clinical outcome and prognostic factors in 60consecutive patients.
[PMID 15112276]SemRep failed to recognize the relative clause,and therefore the nominalization algorithm tookthe noun phrase inside it as the subject of treat-ment, since it satisfies both semantic type andargument constraints.
(FP) Cytoreductive surgery  TREATS Sarcamato-sis NOS(FN) intraperitoneal therapy TREATS Sarcamato-sis NOSA small number of errors were due solely tonominalization processing.
In the following sen-tence, the object of contribution is cued with in,rather than lexically specified to, which causes arecall error.Using SOCS-1 knockout mice, we investi-gated the contribution of SOCS-1 in thedevelopment of insulin resistance inducedby a high-fat diet (HFD).
[PMID18929539](FN) Cytokine Inducible SH-2 Containing Pro-tein PREDISPOSES Insulin ResistanceAccurate identification of the arguments ofnominalizations in the molecular biology sub-domain is more challenging than in clinically-oriented text.
Some of the syntactic structure re-sponsible for this complexity is discussed by K.B.
Cohen et al (2009).
In particular, they notethe problem of an argument being separated fromthe nominalization, and point out the problem ofspecifying the intervening structure.
Althoughwe have not focused on molecular biology, theanalysis developed for clinical medicine showspromise in that domain as well.
One relevant ex-tension could address the syntactic configurationin which intervening structure involves an argu-ment of a nominalization shared with a verb oc-curring to the left of the nominalization, as in-duced and activation interact in the followingsentence:IL-2 induced less STAT1 alpha activationand IFN-alpha induced greater STAT5 acti-vation in NK3.3 cells compared with preacti-vated primary NK cells.
[PMID 8683106]This could be addressed with an extension of ourrule that subjects of nominalizations can be cuedwith verbs.
With respect to argument identifica-tion, induce can function like a form of be.525 ConclusionWe discuss a linguistically principled implemen-tation for identifying arguments of nominaliza-tions in clinically focused biomedical text.
Thefull range of such structures is rarely addressedby existing text mining systems, thus missingvaluable information.
The algorithm is imple-mented inside SemRep, a general semantic inter-preter for biomedical text.
We evaluated the sys-tem both by assessing the algorithm independent-ly and by determining the contribution it makesto SemRep generally.
The first evaluation re-sulted in an F-score of 0.646 (P=0.743,R=0.569), which is 20 points higher than thebaseline, while the second showed that overallSemRep results were increased to F-score 0.689(P=0.745, R=0.640), approximately 25 pointsbetter than processing without nominalizations.Since our nominalization processing is by ex-tending SemRep, rather than by creating a dedi-cated system, we provide the interpretation ofthese structures in a broader context.
An array ofsemantic predications generated by mapping toan ontology (UMLS) normalizes the interpreta-tion of verbs and nominalizations.
Processing islinguistically based, and several syntactic phe-nomena are addressed, including passivization,argument coordination, and relativization.
Thebenefits of such processing include effective ap-plications for extracting information on geneticdiseases from text (Masseroli et al, 2006), aswell as research in medical knowledge summari-zation (Fiszman et al, 2004; Fiszman et al,2009), literature-based discovery (Ahlers et al,2007; Hristovski et al, 2010), and enhanced in-formation retrieval (Kilicoglu et al, 2008; T.Cohen et al, 2009).AcknowledgmentsThis study was supported in part by the Intra-mural Research Program of the National Insti-tutes of Health, National Library of Medicine.ReferencesC.
B. Ahlers, D. Hristovski, H. Kilicoglu, T. C.Rindflesch.
2007.
Using the literature-based dis-covery paradigm to investigate drug mechanisms.In Proceedings of AMIA Annual Symposium, pages6-10.A.
R. Aronson and F.-M. Lang.
2010.
An overview ofMetaMap: historical perspective and recent ad-vances.
Journal of the American Medical Informat-ics Association, 17:229-236.O.
Bodenreider.
2004.
The Unified Medical LanguageSystem (UMLS): integrating biomedical terminol-ogy.
Nucleic Acids Research, 32(Database is-sue):D267-70.N.
Chomsky.
1970.
Remarks on nominalization.
InJacobs, Roderick, and Peter S. Rosenbaum (eds.
)Readings in English transformational grammar.Boston: Ginn and Company, pages 184-221.K.
B. Cohen, M. Palmer, L. Hunter.
2008.
Nominali-zation and alternations in biomedical language.PLoS ONE, 3(9): e3158.K.
B. Cohen, K. H. Verspoor, H. L. Johnson, C.Roeder, P. V. Ogren, W. A. Baumgartner, E.White, H. Tipney, L. Hunter.
2009.
High-precisionbiological event extraction with a concept recog-nizer.
In Proceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Work-shop Companion Volume for Shared Task, pages50-58.T.
Cohen, R. Schvaneveldt, T. C. Rindflesch.
2009.Predication-based semantic indexing: Permutationsas a means to encode predications in semanticspace.
In Proceedings of AMIA Annual Symposium,pages 114-118.D.
A. Dahl, M. S. Palmer, R. J. Passonneau.
1987.Nominalizations in PUNDIT.
In Proceedings ofACL, pages 131-139.C.
Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An Electronic LexicalDatabase.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.M.
Fiszman, D. Demner-Fushman, H. Kilicoglu, T. C.Rindflesch.
2009.
Automatic summarization ofMEDLINE citations for evidence-based medicaltreatment: A topic-oriented evaluation.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, 42(5):801-813.M.
Fiszman, T. C. Rindflesch, H. Kilicoglu.
2004.Abstraction summarization for managing the bio-medical research literature.
In Proceedings ofHLT/NAACL Workshop on Computational LexicalSemantics, pages 76-83.C.
Friedman, P. Kra, A. Rzhetsky.
2002.
Two bio-medical sublanguages: a description based on thetheories of Zellig Harris.
Journal of Biomedical In-formatics, 35:222?235.J.
Grimshaw.
1990.
Argument Structure.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.J.
Grimshaw and E. Williams.
1993.
Nominalizationsand predicative prepositional phrases.
In J. Puste-jovsky (ed.)
Semantics and the Lexicon.
Dordrecht:Kluwer Academic Publishers, pages  97-106.O.
Gurevich and S. A. Waterman.
2009.
Mining ofparsed data to derive deverbal argument structure.In Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on GrammarEngineering Across Frameworks.
pages 19-27.D.
Hristovski, A. Kastrin, B. Peterlin, T. C.Rindflesch.
2010.
Combining semantic relations53and DNA microarray data for novel hypothesisgeneration.
In C. Blaschke, H. Shatkay (Eds.
)ISMB/ECCB2009, Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics,Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, pages 53-61.R.
D. Hull and F. Gomez.
1996.
Semantic interpreta-tion of nominalizations.
In Proceedings of AAAI,pages 1062-1068.Z.
P. Jiang and H. T. Ng.
2006.
Semantic role labelingof NomBank: A maximum entropy approach.
InProceedings of EMNLP?06, pages 138?145.H.
Kilicoglu and S. Bergler.
2009.
Syntactic depen-dency based heuristics for biological event extrac-tion.
In Proceedings of the BioNLP 2009 WorkshopCompanion Volume for Shared Task, pages 119-127.H.
Kilicoglu, M. Fiszman, A. Rodriguez, D. Shin, A.M. Ripple, T. C. Rindflesch.
2008.
SemanticMEDLINE: A Web application to manage the re-sults of PubMed searches.
In Proceedings ofSMBM?08, pages 69-76.J-D. Kim, T. Ohta, S. Pyysalo, Y. Kano, J. Tsujii.2009.
Overview of BioNLP?09 Shared Task onEvent Extraction.
In Proceedings of the BioNLP2009 Workshop Companion Volume for SharedTask, pages 1-9.J-D. Kim, T. Ohta, J. Tsujii.
2008.
Corpus annotationfor mining biomedical events from literature.
BMCBioinformatics, 9(1):10.Y.
Kogan, N. Collier, S. Pakhomov, M. Krautham-mer.
2005.
Towards semantic role labeling & IE inthe medical literature.
In Proceedings of AMIA An-nual Symposium, pages 410?414.S.
Kulick, A. Bies, M. Liberman, M. Mandel, R.McDonald, M. Palmer.
A. Schein, L. Ungar.
2004.Integrated annotation for biomedical informationextraction.
In Proceedings of BioLINK: LinkingBiological Literature, Ontologies and Databases,pages 61?68.G.
Leroy and H. Chen.
2005.
Genescene: An ontolo-gy-enhanced integration of linguistic and co-occurrence based relations in biomedical texts.Journal of the American Society for InformationScience and Technology, 56(5): 457?468.C.
Liu and H. Ng.
2007.
Learning predictive struc-tures for semantic role labeling of NomBank.
InProceedings of ACL, pages 208?215.C.
Macleod, R. Grishman, A. Meyers, L. Barrett, R.Reeves.
1998.
NOMLEX: A lexicon of nominali-zations.
In Proceedings of EURALEX?98.M.
Masseroli, H. Kilicoglu, F-M. Lang, T. C.Rindflesch.
2006.
Argument-predicate distance as afilter for enhancing precision in extracting predica-tions on the genetic etiology of disease.
BMC Bio-informatics, 7:291.A.
T. McCray, S. Srinivasan, A. C. Browne.
1994.Lexical methods for managing variation in biomed-ical terminologies.
In Proceedings of 18th AnnualSymposium on Computer Applications in MedicalCare, pages 235?239.A.
Meyers, C. Macleod, R. Yanbarger, R. Grishman,L.
Barrett, R. Reeves.
1998.
Using NOMLEX toproduce nominalization patterns for informationextraction.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onComputational Treatment of Nominals (COL-ING/ACL), pages 25-32.A.
Meyers, R. Reeves, C. Macleod, R. Szekely, V.Zielinska, B.
Young, R. Grishman.
2004a.
Anno-tating noun argument structure for NomBank.
InProceedings of LREC.A.
Meyers, R. Reeves, C. Macleod, R. Szekely, V.Zielinska, B.
Young, R. Grishman.
2004b.
TheNomBank project: An interim report.
In Proceed-ings of HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Frontiers inCorpus Annotation, pages 24?31.N.
Okazaki, S. Ananiadou, J. Tsujii.
2010.
Building ahigh quality sense inventory for improved abbrevi-ation disambiguation.
Bioinformatics: btq129+.S.
Pad?, M. Pennacchiotti, C. Sporleder.
2008.
Se-mantic role assignment for event nominalisationsby leveraging verbal data.
In Proceedings of CoL-ing?08, pages 665-672.S.
Pradhan, H. Sun, W. Ward, J. Martin, D. Jurafsky.2004.
Parsing arguments of nominalizations inEnglish and Chinese.
In Proceedings ofHLT/NAACL, pages 141?144.R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, J. Svartvik.
1985.A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Lan-guage.
Longman, London.T.
C. Rindflesch and M. Fiszman.
2003.
The interac-tion of domain knowledge and linguistic structurein natural language processing: Interpreting hyper-nymic propositions in biomedical text.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, 36(6):462-77.J.
Schuman and S. Bergler.
2006.
Postnominal prepo-sitional phrase attachment in proteomics.
In Pro-ceedings of BioNLP Workshop on Linking NaturalLanguage Processing and Biology, pages 82?89.L.
Smith, T. C. Rindflesch, W. J. Wilbur.
2004.
Med-Post: a part-of-speech tagger for biomedical text.Bioinformatics, 20(14):2320-2321.T.
Wattarujeekrit, P. K. Shah, N. Collier.
2004.
PAS-Bio: Predicate-argument structures for event ex-traction in molecular biology.
BMC Bioinformat-ics, 5:155.54
