Applying semantic frame theory to automate natural languagetemplate generation from ontology statementsDana Danne?llsNLP research unit, Department of Swedish LanguageUniversity of Gothenburg, SE-405 30 Gothenburg, Swedendana.dannells@svenska.gu.seAbstractToday there exist a growing number offramenet-like resources offering seman-tic and syntactic phrase specifications thatcan be exploited by natural language gen-eration systems.
In this paper we presenton-going work that provides a startingpoint for exploiting framenet informationfor multilingual natural language genera-tion.
We describe the kind of informationoffered by modern computational lexicalresources and discuss how template-basedgeneration systems can benefit from them.1 IntroductionExisting open-source multilingual natural lan-guage generators such as NaturalOWL (Galanisand Androutsopoulos, 2007) and MPIRO (Isard etal., 2003) require a large amount of manual lin-guistic input to map ontology statements onto se-mantic and syntactic structures, as exemplified inTable 1.
In this table, each statement contains aproperty and two instances; each template con-tains the lexicalized, reflected property and the twoontology classes (capitalized) the statement?s in-stances belong to.Ontology statement Sentence templatepainted-by (ex14, p-Kleo) VESSEL was decorated by PAINTERexhibit-depicts (ex12, en914) PORTRAIT depicts EXHIBIT-STORYcurrent-location (ex11, wag-mus) COIN is currently displayed in MUSEUMTable 1: MPIRO ontology statements and theircorresponding sentence templates.Consider adapting such systems to museum vis-itors in multilingual environments: as each state-ment is packaged into a sentence through a fixedsentence template, where lexical items, style ofreference and linguistic morphology have alreadybeen determined, this adaptation process requiresan extensive amount of manual input for each lan-guage, which is a labour-intensive task.One way to automate this natural language map-ping process, avoiding manual work is throughlanguage-specific resources that provide semanticand syntactic phrase specifications that are, for ex-ample, presented by means of lexicalized frames.An example of such a resource in which frameprinciples have been applied to the description andthe analysis of lexical entries from a variety of se-mantic domains is the Berkeley FrameNet (FN)project (Fillmore et al, 2003).
The outcome ofthe English FN has formed the basis for the devel-opment of more sophisticated and computation-ally oriented multilingual FrameNets that todayare freely available (Boas, 2009).This rapid development in computational lexi-cography circles has produced a growing numberof framenet-like resources that we argue are rel-evant for natural language generators.
We claimthat semantic and syntactic information, such asthat provided in a FrameNet, facilitates mappingof ontology statements to natural language.
Inthis paper we describe the kind of informationwhich is offered by modern computational lexi-cal resources and discuss how template-based nat-ural language generation (NLG) systems can ben-efit from them.1.1 Semantic framesA frame, according to Fillmore?s frame semantics,describes the meaning of lexical units with refer-ence to a structured background that motivates theconceptual roles they encode.
Conceptual rolesare represented with a set of slots called frameelements (FEs).
A semantic frame carries infor-mation about the different syntactic realizations ofthe frame elements (syntactic valency), and abouttheir semantic characteristics (semantic valency).A frame can be described with the help oftwo types of frame elements that are classifiedin terms of how central they are to a particularframe, namely: core and peripheral.
A core ele-ment is one that instantiates a conceptually nec-essary component of a frame while making theframe unique and different from other frames.
Aperipheral element does not uniquely characterizea frame and can be instantiated in any semanticallyappropriate frame.1.2 The language generation moduleThe kind of language generation system discussedhere consists of a language generation modulethat is guided by linguistic principles to map itsnon-linguistic input (i.e.
a set of logical state-ments) to syntactic and semantic templates.
Thiskind of generation system follows the approachesthat have been discussed elsewhere (Reiter, 1999;Busemann and Horacek, 1998; Geldof and van deVelde, 1997; Reiter and Mellish, 1993).The goal of the proposed module is to associatean ontology statement with relevant syntactic andsemantic specifications.
This generation processshould be carried out during microplanning (cf.Reiter and Dale (2000)) before aggregation and re-ferring expression generation take place.1.3 The knowledge representationThe knowledge representation which serves as theinput to the language generator is a structured on-tology specified in the Web Ontology Language(OWL) (Berners-Lee, 2004) on which programscan perform logical reasoning over data.Ontological knowledge represented in OWLcontains a hierarchical description of classes (con-cepts) and properties (relations) in a domain.
Itmay also contain instances that are associated withparticular classes, and assertions (axioms), whichallow reasoning about them.
Generating linguis-tic output from this originally non-linguistic inputrequires instantiations of the ontology content, i.e.concepts, properties and instances by lexical units.2 From ontology statements to templatespecificationsOur approach to automatic template generationfrom ontology statements has three major steps:(1) determining the base lexeme of a statement?sproperty and identifying the frame it evokes,1 (2)matching the statement?s associated concepts withthe frame elements, and (3) extracting the syntac-tic patterns that are linked to each frame element.1Base lexemes become words after they are subjected tomorphological processing which is guided by the syntacticcontext.The remainder of this section describes howbase lexemes are chosen and how informationabout the syntactic and semantic distribution of thelexemes underlying an ontological statement areacquired.2.1 Lexical units?
determination and frameidentificationThe first, most essential step that is required forrecognizing which semantic frame is associatedwith an ontology statement is lexicalization.
MostWeb ontologies contain a large amount of linguis-tic information that can be exploited to map theontology content to linguistic units automatically(Mellish and Sun, 2006).
However, direct verbal-ization of the ontology properties and concepts re-quires preprocessing, extensive linguistic knowl-edge and sophisticated disambiguation algorithmsto produce accurate results.
For the purposes ofthis paper where we are only interested in lexical-izing the ontology properties, we avoid applyingautomatic verbalization; instead we choose man-ual lexicalization.The grammatical categories that are utilized tomanifest the ontology properties are verb lexemes.These are determined according to the frame defi-nitions and with the help of the ontology class hi-erarchy.
For example, consider the statement cre-ate (bellini, napoleon).
In this domain, i.e.
thecultural heritage domain, the property create hastwo possible interpretations: (1) to create a physi-cal object which serves as the representation of thepresented entity, (2) to create an artifact that is aniconic representation of an actual or imagined en-tity or event.
FrameNet contains two frames thatcorrespond to these two definitions, namely: Cre-ate Representation and Create physical artwork.Figure 1: A fragment of the ontology.By following the ontological representation de-parting from the given instances, as illustrated inFigure 1, we learn that bellini is an instance of theclass Actor, napoleon is an instance of the classRepresented Object, and that napoleon is the rep-resented entity in the painting p-163.
Thus, in thiscontext, an appropriate lexicalization of the prop-erty create is the verb paint which evokes the Cre-ate Representation frame.For clarity, we specify in Table 2 part of the in-formation that is coded in the frame.
In this ta-ble we find the name of the frame, its definition,the set of lexical units belonging to the frame, thenames of its core elements and a number of sen-tences annotated with these core FEs.Create representationDefA Creator produces a physical object which is to serve as a Representationof an actual or imagined entity or event, the Represented.LUs carve.v, cast.v, draw.v, paint.v, photograph.v, sketch.vcoreCreator (C) (1) Since [ Frans]C PHOTOGRAPHED [them]R tenFEsyears ago the population has increased.
(2) [ Picasso]C DREW [some violent-looking birds]R .Represented (R) (3) When [ Nadar]C PHOTOGRAPHED [ her ]R ,Desbordes-Valmore was sixty-eight.
(4) [ Munch]C PAINTED [ himself ]R as a ghost.Table 2: Frame Create representation.2.2 Matching the ontology concepts withframe elementsIn this step, the set of core frame elements whichfunction as the obligatory arguments of the re-quired lexeme are matched with their correspond-ing ontology concepts.
The algorithm that is ap-plied to carry out this process utilizes the FE Tax-onomy and the ontology class hierarchy.2Matching is based on the class hierarchies.
Forexample: Actor, which is a subclass of Person ismatched with the core element Creator, which isa subclass of Agent because they are both charac-terized as animate objects that have human prop-erties.
Similarly, Represented Object, which is asubclass of Conceptual Object, is matched withthe core element Represented, which is a subclassof Entity because they are both characterized asthe results of a human creation that comprises non-material products of the human mind.This matching process leads to consistent speci-fications of the semantic roles specifying sentenceconstituents which are not bound to the input on-tology structure.32.3 Semantic and syntactic knowledgeextractionSemantic frames, besides providing informationabout a lexeme?s semantic content, provide infor-mation about the valency pattern associated with2The Frame Element Taxonomy: http://www.clres.com/db/feindex.html3One of the basic assumptions of our approach is that se-mantically, languages have a rather high degree of similarity,whereas syntactically they tend to differ.it, i.e.
how semantic roles are realized syntac-tically and what are the different types of gram-matical functions they may fulfill when occurringwith other elements.
An example of the syntacticpatterns and possible realizations of the semanticelements that appear in the Create representationframe are summarized in Table 3.4 From this in-formation we learn the kind of syntactic valencypatterns that are associated with each semantic el-ement.
For example, we learn that in active con-structions Creator appears in the subject positionwhile in passive constructions it follows the prepo-sition by.
It can also be eliminated in passive con-structions when other peripheral elements appear(Example 2), in this case it is the FE Time (T).Although it is a peripheral element, it plays an im-portant role in this context.FEs Syntactic Pattern[C, R] [ [ NP Ext], [NPObj ] ]Example 1: [Leonardo da Vinci]C painted [this scene]R[R, T] [ [ [NPExt], PP[in]Dep] ]Example 2: [The lovely Sibyls]R were painted in [the last century]T .
[R, C, T] [ [ NP Ext] , [ PP[by]Dep], [ PP[in]Dep] ]Example 3: [The Gerichtsstube]R was painted by [Kuhn]C in [1763]T .Table 3: Syntactic realizations of the lexical entrypaint.This knowledge is extracted automatically fromthe FN database and is converted to sentence spec-ifications with the help of a simple Perl script.
Be-low is a template example which specifies the sen-tence construction of the sentence in Example 3:(template ( type: passive)(( head: |paint|) (feature: (tense: past) )( arg1 (Represented (head: |gerichtsstube|) (determiner: |the|))arg2 (Creator (head: |kuhn|) (mod: |by|))arg3 (Time (head: |1763|) (mod: |in|))))3 Testing the methodTo test our approach, we employ the MPIRO do-main ontology content.5 Table 4 illustrates someof the results, i.e.
examples of the ontology state-ments, the frame that matched their property lex-icalization, and their possible realization patternsthat were extracted from the English FrameNet.The results demonstrate some of the advantagesof the syntactic and semantic valency propertiesprovided in FN that are relevant for expressing nat-ural language.
These include: Verb collocations4FN?s abbreviations: Constructional Null Instantia-tion (CNI), External Argument (Ext), Dependent (Dep).5<http://users.iit.demokritos.gr/?eleon/ELEONDownloads.html>Nr Ontology statement Frame Possible realization patterns(1) depict (portraitMED , storyITE) Communicate MEDIUM depict CATEGORY.categorization MEDIUM depict ITEM of CATEGORY.
(2) depict (modigCRE , portraitREP ) Create physical artwork CREATOR paint REPRESENTATION.CREATOR paint REPRESENTATIONfrom REFERENCE in PLACE.
(3) depict (kuhnCRE , flowerREP ) Create representation CREATOR paint REPRESENTED.REPRESENTED is painted by CREATOR in TIME.
(4) locate (portraitTHE , louvreLOC) Being located THEME is located LOCATION.
(5) copy (portraitORI , portraitCOP ) Duplication COPY replicate ORIGINAL.CREATOR replicate ORIGINAL.Table 4: Ontology statements and their possible realization patterns extracted from frames.
Each instanceis annotated with the three first letters of the core frame element it has been associated with.examples (1) and (2).
Intransitive usages, exam-ple (4).
Semantic focus shifts, examples (3) and(5).
Lexical variations and realizations of the sameproperty, examples (1), (2) and (3).4 Discussion and related workApplying frame semantics theory has been sug-gested before in the context of multilingual lan-guage generation (De Bleecker, 2005; Stede,1996).
However, to our knowledge, no generationapplication has tried to extract semantic frame in-formation directly from a framenet resource andintegrate the extracted information in the genera-tion machinery.
Perhaps because it is not until nowthat automatic processing of multilingual framenetdata become available (Boas, 2009).
Moreover,the rapid increase of Web ontologies has only re-cently become acknowledged in the NLG commu-nity, who started to recognize the new needs forestablishing feasible methods that facilitate gen-eration and aggregation of natural language fromthese emerging standards (Mellish and Sun, 2006).Authors who have been experimenting withNLG from Web ontologies (Bontcheva and Wilks,2004; Wilcock and Jokinen, 2003) have demon-strated the usefulness of performing aggregationand applying some kind of discourse structures inthe early stages of the microplanning process.
Asmentioned in Section 1.1, peripheral elements canhelp in deciding on how the domain informationshould be packed into sentences.
In the next stepof our work, when we proceed with aggregationsand discourse generation we intend to utilize theessential information provided by these elements.Currently, the ontology properties are lexical-ized manually, a process which relies solely on theframes and the ontology class hierarchies.
To in-crease efficiency and accuracy, additional lexicalresources such as WordNet must be integrated intothe system.
This kind of integration has alreadyproved feasible in the context of NLG (Jing andMcKeown, 1998) and has several implications forautomatic lexicalization.5 ConclusionsIn this paper we presented on-going research onapplying semantic frame theory to automate natu-ral language template generation.The proposed method has many advantages.First, the extracted templates and syntactic alterna-tions provide varying degrees of complexity of lin-guistic entities which eliminate the need for man-ual input of language-specific heuristics.
Second,the division of phases and the separation of the dif-ferent tasks enables flexibility and re-use possibil-ities.
This is in particular appealing for modularNLG systems.
Third, it provides multilingual ex-tension possibilities.
Framenet resources offer anextended amount of semantic and syntactic phrasespecifications that are only now becoming avail-able in languages other than English.
Becausenon-English framenets share the same type of con-ceptual backbone as the English FN, the steps in-volved in adapting the proposed method to otherlanguages mainly concern lexicalization of the on-tology properties.Future work aims to enhance the proposedmethod along the lines discussed in Section 4 andtest it on the Italian and Spanish framenets.
Weintend to experiment with the information aboutsynonymous words and related terms provided inFN (which we haven?t taken advantage of yet) anddemonstrate how existing NLG applications thatare designed to accommodate different user needscan benefit from it.AcknowledgmentsThe author would like to express her gratitude toMaria Toporowska Gronostaj for useful discus-sions about lexical semantics and to Olga Caprottifor making suggestions for improving the paper.I thank three anonymous reviewers for their en-couraging comments on an earlier version of thispaper.ReferencesTim Berners-Lee.
2004.
OWL Web Ontology Lan-guage reference, February.
W3C Recommendation.Hans C. Boas.
2009.
Multilingual FrameNets in Com-putational Lexicography.Kalina Bontcheva and Yorick Wilks.
2004.
Automaticreport generation from ontologies: the MIAKT ap-proach.
In Proceedings of the Nineth InternationalConference on Applications of Natural Language toInformation Systems (NLDB), pages 324?335.Stephan Busemann and Helmut Horacek.
1998.
Aflexible shallow approach to text generation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 9th International Workshop on Nat-ural Language Generation (IWNLG 98), pages 238?247, Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario.Inge M. R. De Bleecker.
2005.
Towards an optimallexicalization in a natural-sounding portable naturallanguage generator for dialog systems.
In ACL ?05:Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Workshop,pages 61?66, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Charles J. Fillmore, Christopher R. Johnson, andMiriam R.L.
Petruck.
2003.
Background toframenet.
International Journal of Lexicography,16(3):235?250.Dimitrios Galanis and Ion Androutsopoulos.
2007.Generating multilingual descriptions from linguisti-cally annotated OWL ontologies: the NaturalOWLsystem.
In Proceedings of the 11th EuropeanWorkshop on Natural Language Generation, SchlossDagstuhl.Sabine Geldof and Walter van de Velde.
1997.
Anarchitecture for template-based (hyper)text genera-tion.
In Proceedings of the Sixth European Work-shop on Natural Language Generation, pages 28?37, Duisburg, Germany.Amy Isard, Jon Oberlander, Ion Androutsopoulos,and Colin Matheson.
2003.
Speaking the users?languages.
IEEE Intelligent Systems Magazine,18(1):40?45.Hongyan Jing and Kathleen McKeown.
1998.
Com-bining multiple, large-scale resources in a reusablelexicon for natural language generation.
In Proceed-ings of the 17th international conference on Compu-tational linguistics, pages 607?613, Morristown, NJ,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Chris Mellish and Xiantang Sun.
2006.
The semanticweb as a linguistic resource: Opportunities for natu-ral language generation.
Knowledge-Based Systems,19(5):298?303.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
2000.
Building NaturalLanguage Generation Systems.
MIT Press and TheMcGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.Ehud Reiter and Chris Mellish.
1993.
Optimizing thecosts and benefits of natural language generation.In Proceedings of the 13th International Joint Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI 93), pages1164?1169, Chambery, France.Ehud Reiter.
1999.
Shallow vs. deep techniques forhandling linguistic constraints and optimisations.
InDFKI, editor, In Proceedings of the KI99 Workshop.Manfred Stede.
1996.
Lexical semantics and knowl-edge representation in multilingual sentence gener-ation.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of Computer Sci-ence, University of Toronto.Graham Wilcock and Kristiina Jokinen.
2003.
Gen-erating responses and explanations from RDF/XMLand DAML+OIL.
In Knowledge and Reasoningin Practical Dialogue Systems IJCAI, pages 58?63,Acapulco.
