Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 269?272,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsStatistical Dialog Management Methodologies for Real ApplicationsDavid GriolDept.
of Computer ScienceCarlos III University of MadridAv.
Universidad, 30, 28911, Legane?sdgriol@inf.uc3m.esZoraida Callejas, Ramo?n Lo?pez-Co?zarDept.
of Languages and Computer Systems, CITIC-UGRUniversity of GranadaC/ Pdta.
Daniel Saucedo Aranda, 18071, Granada{zoraida, rlopezc}@ugr.esAbstractIn this paper we present a proposal for thedevelopment of dialog systems that, on theone hand, takes into account the benefits ofusing standards like VoiceXML, whilst onthe other, includes a statistical dialog mod-ule to avoid the effort of manually defin-ing the dialog strategy.
This module istrained using a labeled dialog corpus, andselects the next system response consider-ing a classification process that takes intoaccount the dialog history.
Thus, systemdevelopers only need to define a set ofVoiceXML files, each including a systemprompt and the associated grammar to rec-ognize the users responses to the prompt.We have applied this technique to developa dialog system in VoiceXML that pro-vides railway information in Spanish.1 IntroductionWhen designing a spoken dialog system, develop-ers need to specify the system actions in responseto user utterances and environmental states that,for example, can be based on observed or inferredevents or beliefs.
In addition, the dialog managerneeds a dialog strategy that defines the conversa-tional behavior of the system.
This is the funda-mental task of dialog management (Paek and Pier-accini, 2008), as the performance of the system ishighly dependent on the quality of this strategy.Thus, a great effort is employed to empirically de-sign dialog strategies for commercial systems.
Infact, the design of a good strategy is far from be-ing a trivial task since there is no clear definitionof what constitutes a good strategy (Schatzmannet al, 2006).
Once the strategy has been designed,the implementation of the system is leveraged byprogramming languages such as VoiceXML, forwhich different programming environments andtools have been created to help developers.As an alternative of the previously describedrule-based approaches, the application of statis-tical approaches to dialog management makes itpossible to consider a wider space of dialog strate-gies (Georgila et al, 2006; Williams and Young,2007; Griol et al, 2009).
The main reason is thatstatistical models can be trained from real dialogs,modeling the variability in user behaviors.
The fi-nal objective is to develop dialog systems that havea more robust behavior and are easier to adapt todifferent user profiles or tasks.
(Pieraccini et al, 2009) highlights the imprac-ticality of applying statistical learning approachesto develop commercial applications, in the sensethat it is difficult to consider the expert knowl-edge of human designers.
From his perspective,a hybrid approach, combining statistical and rule-based approaches, could be a good solution.
Thereason is that statistical approaches can offer awider range of alternatives at each dialog state,whereas rule based approaches may offer knowl-edge on best practices.For example, (Williams, 2008) proposes takingadvantage of POMDPs and rule-based approachesby using POMDPs to foster robustness and at thesame time being able to incorporate handcraftedconstraints which cover expert knowledge in theapplication domain.
Also (Lee et al, 2010) haverecently proposed a different hybrid approach todialog modeling in which n-best recognition hy-potheses are weighted using a mixture of expertknowledge and data-driven measures by using anagenda and an example-based machine translationapproach respectively.
In both approaches, the hy-brid method achieved significant improvements.Additionally, speech recognition grammars forcommercial systems have been usually built onthe basis of handcrafted rules that are tested re-cursively, which in complex applications is verycostly (McTear, 2004).
However, as stated by(Pieraccini et al, 2009), many sophisticated com-269mercial systems already available receive a largevolume of interactions.
Therefore, industry is be-coming more interested in substituting rule basedgrammars with statistical approaches based on thelarge amounts of data available.As an attempt to improve the current technol-ogy, we propose to merge statistical approacheswith VoiceXML.
Our goal is to combine the flex-ibility of statistical dialog management with thefacilities that VoiceXML offers, which would helpto introduce statistical approaches for the develop-ment of commercial (and not strictly academic) di-alog systems.
To this end, our technique employsa statistical dialog manager that takes into accountthe history of the dialog up to the current dialogstate in order to decide the next system prompt.In addition, the system prompts and the gram-mars for ASR are implemented in VoiceXML-compliant formats, for example, JSGF or SRGS.As it is often difficult to find or gather a human-machine corpus which cover an identical domainas the system which is to be implemented, our ap-proach is also based on the compilation of cor-pora of interactions of simulated users, which isa common practice when using machine learningapproaches for system development.In contrast with other hybrid approaches, ourmain aim is not to incorporate knowledge aboutbest strategies in statistical dialog management,but rather to take advantage of an implementa-tion language which has been traditionally usedto build rule-based systems (such as VoiceXML),for the development of statistical dialog strate-gies.
Expert knowledge about deployment ofVoiceXML applications, development environ-ments and tools can still be exploited using ourtechnique.
The only change is in the transition be-tween states, which is carried out on a data-drivenbasis (i.e., is not deterministic).
We have appliedour technique to develop a dialog system that pro-vides railway information, for which we have de-veloped a statistical dialog management techniquein a previous study.2 Our Proposal to Introduce StatisticalMethodologies in CommercialApplicationsAs stated in the introduction, our approach to inte-grate statistical methodologies in commercial ap-plications is based on the automatic learning of thedialog strategy using a statistical dialog manage-ment methodology.
In most dialog systems, thedialog manager makes decisions based only on theinformation provided by the user in the previousturns and its own dialog model.
For example, thisis the case with most dialog systems for slot-fillingtasks.
The methodology that we propose for theselection of the next system response for this kindof task is detailed in (Griol et al, 2008).
It is basedon the definition of a data structure that we callDialog Register (DR), which contains the infor-mation provided by the user throughout the dialoghistory.
In brief, it is as follows: for each time i,the selection of the next system prompt Ai is car-ried out by means of the following maximization:A?i = argmaxAi?AP (Ai|DRi?1, Si?1)where the set A contains all the possible systemresponses and Si?1 is the state of the dialog se-quence (system-turn, user-turn) at time i.Each user turn supplies the system with infor-mation about the task; that is, he/she asks for aspecific concept and/or provides specific valuesfor certain attributes.
However, a user turn couldalso provide other kinds of information, such astask-independent information.
This is the case ofturns corresponding to Affirmation, Negation andNot-Understood dialog acts.
This kind of infor-mation implies some decisions which are differentfrom simply updating the DRi?1.
Hence, for theselection of the best system response Ai, we takeinto account the DR that results from turn 1 toturn i?
1, and we explicitly consider the last stateSi?1.
Our model can be extended by incorporatingadditional information to the DR, such as somechronological information (e.g.
number of turnsup to the current turn) or user profiles (e.g.
userexperience or preferences).The selection of the system response is car-ried out through a classification process, for whicha multilayer perceptron (MLP) is used.
The in-put layer receives the codification of the pair(DRi?1, Si?1).
The output generated by the MLPcan be seen as the probability of selecting each ofthe different system answers defined for a specifictask.To learn the dialog model we use dialog sim-ulation techniques.
Our approach for acquiring adialog corpus is based on the interaction of a usersimulator and a dialog manager simulator (Griol etal., 2007).
The user simulation replaces the userintention level, that is, it provides concepts and270attributes that represent the intention of the user.This way, the user simulator carries out the func-tions of the ASR and NLU modules.
Errors andconfidence scores are simulated by a specific mod-ule in the simulator.
The acquired dialogs are em-ployed to automatically generate VoiceXML codefor each system prompt and create the grammarneeded to recognize the possible user utterancesafter each one of the system prompts.3 Development of a railway informationsystem using the proposed techniqueTo test our proposal, we have used the defini-tions taken to develop the DIHANA dialog system,which was developed in a previous study to pro-vide information about train services, schedulesand fares in Spanish (Griol et al, 2009; Griol etal., 2008).
The DR defined for the our railway in-formation system is a sequence of 15 fields, corre-sponding to the five concepts (Hour, Price, Train-Type, Trip-Time, Services) and ten attributes (Ori-gin, Destination, Departure-Date, Arrival-Date,Departure-Hour, Arrival-Hour, Class, Train-Type,Order-Number, Services).
The system generates atotal of 51 different prompts.Three levels of labeling are defined for the la-beling of the system dialog acts.
The first leveldescribes general acts which are task independent.The second level is used to represent concepts andattributes involved in dialog turns that are task-dependent.
The third level represents values of at-tributes given in the turns.
The following labelsare defined for the first level: Opening, Closing,Undefined, Not-Understood, Waiting, New-Query,Acceptance, Rejection, Question, Confirmation,and Answer.
The labels defined for the second andthird level were the following: Departure-Hour,Arrival-Hour, Price, Train-Type, Origin, Destina-tion, Date, Order-Number, Number-Trains, Ser-vices, Class, Trip-Type, Trip-Time, and Nil.
Thereare dialog turns which are labeled with several di-alog acts.Having this kind of labeling and the values ofattributes obtained during a dialog, it is straightfor-ward to construct a sentence in natural language.Some examples of the dialog act labeling of thesystem turns are shown in Figure 1.Two million dialogs were simulated using a setof two types of scenarios.
Type S1 defines oneobjective for the dialog, whereas Type S2 definestwo.
Table 1 summarizes the statistics of the ac-[SPANISH] Bienvenido al servicio de informacio?n detrenes.
?En que?
puedo ayudarle?
[ENGLISH] Welcome to the railway information sys-tem.
How can I help you?
(Opening:Nil:Nil)[SPANISH] El u?nico tren es un Euromed que sale a las0:27.
?Desea algo ma?s?
[ENGLISH] There is only one train, which is a Eu-romed, that leaves at 0:27.
Anything else?
(Answer:Departure-Hour:Departure-Hour:Departure-Hour[0.27],Number-Trains[1],Train-Type[Euromed])(New-Query:Nil:Nil)Figure 1: Labeling examples of system turns fromthe DIHANA corpusquisition for the two types of scenarios.Type S1 Type S2Simulated dialogs 106 106Successful dialogs 15,383 1,010Different dialogs 14,921 998Number of user turns per dialog 4.9 6.2Table 1: Statistics of the new corpus acquisitionThe 51 different system prompts have been au-tomatically generated in VoiceXML using the pro-posed technique.
For example, Figure 2 shows theVXML document to prompt the user for the origincity, whereas Figure 3 shows the obtained gram-mar for ASR.<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><vxml xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/vxml"xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2001/vxmlhttp://www.w3.org/TR/voicexml20/vxml.xsd"version="2.0" application="app-dihana.vxml"><form id="origin_form"><field name="origin"><grammar type="application/srgs+xml"src="/grammars/origin.grxml"/><prompt>Tell me the origin city.</prompt><filled><return namelist="origin"/></filled></field></form></vxml>Figure 2: VXML document to require the origincity4 ConclusionsIn this paper, we have described a technique fordeveloping dialog systems using a well known271#JSGF V1.0;grammar origin;public <origin> = [<desire>][<travel> <city> {this.destination=$city}][<proceed> <city> {this.origin=$city}];<desire> = I want [to know] | I would like[to know] | I would like | I want | I need| I have to;<travel> = go to | travel to | to go to| to travel to;<city> = Jae?n | Co?rdoba | Sevilla | Huelva |Ca?diz | Ma?laga | Granada | Almer?
?a |Valencia | Alicante | Castello?n | Barcelona| Madrid;<proceed> = from | going from | go from;Figure 3: Grammar defined to capture the origincitystandard like VoiceXML, and considering a statis-tical dialog model that is automatically learnt froma dialog corpus.The main objective of our work is to reduce thegap between academic and commercial systemsby reducing the effort required to define optimaldialog strategies and implement the system.
Ourproposal works on the benefits of statistical meth-ods for dialog management and VoiceXML, re-spectively.
The former provide an efficient meansto exploring a wider range of dialog strategies,whereas the latter makes it possible to benefit fromthe advantages of using the different tools andplatforms that are already available to simplifysystem development.
We have applied our tech-nique to develop a dialog system that provides rail-way information, and have shown that it enablescreating automatically VoiceXML documents toprompt the user for data, as well as the necessarygrammars for ASR.
As a future work, we plan tostudy ways for adapting the proposed dialog man-agement technique to more complex domains.Additionally, we are interested in investigatingpossible ways for easing the adoption of our tech-nique in industry, and the main challenges thatmight arise in using it to develop commercial sys-tems.AcknowledgmentsThis research has been funded by the SpanishMinistry of Science and Technology, under projectHADA TIN2007-64718.ReferencesK.
Georgila, J. Henderson, and O.
Lemon.
2006.
UserSimulation for Spoken Dialogue Systems: Learn-ing and Evaluation.
In Proc.
of the 9th Inter-speech/ICSLP, pages 1065?1068, Pittsburgh (USA).D.
Griol, L.F. Hurtado, E. Sanchis, and E. Segarra.2007.
Acquiring and Evaluating a Dialog Corpusthrough a Dialog Simulation Technique.
In Proc.of the 8th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dia-logue, pages 39?42, Antwerp (Belgium).D.
Griol, L.F. Hurtado, E. Segarra, and E. Sanchis.2008.
A Statistical Approach to Spoken Dialog Sys-tems Design and Evaluation.
Speech Communica-tion, 50(8?9):666?682.D.
Griol, G. Riccardi, and Emilio Sanchis.
2009.
AStatistical Dialog Manager for the LUNA project.In Proc.
of Interspeech/ICSLP?09, pages 272?275,Brighton (UK).Cheongjae Lee, Sangkeun Jung, Kyungduk Kim, andGary Geunbae Lee.
2010.
Hybrid approach torobust dialog management using agenda and dia-log examples.
Computer Speech and Language,24(4):609?631.Michael F. McTear, 2004.
Spoken Dialogue Technol-ogy: Towards the Conversational User Interface.Springer.T.
Paek and R. Pieraccini.
2008.
Automating spokendialogue management design using machine learn-ing: An industry perspective .
Speech Communica-tion, 50(8?9):716?729.Roberto Pieraccini, David Suendermann, KrishnaDayanidhi, and Jackson Liscombe.
2009.
Are WeThere Yet?
Research in Commercial Spoken Dia-log Systems.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science,5729:3?13.J.
Schatzmann, K. Weilhammer, M. Stuttle, andS.
Young.
2006.
A Survey of Statistical User Sim-ulation Techniques for Reinforcement-Learning ofDialogue Management Strategies.
In KnowledgeEngineering Review, volume 21(2), pages 97?126.J.
Williams and S. Young.
2007.
Partially ObservableMarkov Decision Processes for Spoken Dialog Sys-tems.
In Computer Speech and Language, volume21(2), pages 393?422.Jason D. Williams.
2008.
The best of bothworlds: Unifying conventional dialog systems andPOMDPs.
In Proceedings of the International Con-ference on Spoken Language Processing.272
