Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on ?Collaboratively Constructed Semantic Resources?, Coling 2010, pages 63?66,Beijing, August 2010Helping Volunteer Translators, Fostering Language ResourcesMasao UtiyamaMASTAR ProjectNICTmutiyama@nict.go.jpTakeshi AbekawaNational Instituteof Informaticsabekawa@nii.ac.jpEiichiro SumitaMASTAR ProjectNICTeiichiro.sumita@nict.go.jpKyo KageuraTokyo Universitykyo@p.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractThis paper introduces a website calledMinna no Hon?yaku (MNH, ?Translationfor All?
), which hosts online volunteertranslators.
Its core features are (1) aset of translation aid tools, (2) high qual-ity, comprehensive language resources,and (3) the legal sharing of translations.As of May 2010, there are about 1200users and 4 groups registered to MNH.The groups using it include such majorFigure 1: Screenshot of ?Minna no Hon?yaku?NGOs as Amnesty International Japansite (http://trans- )and Democracy Now!
Japan.
aid.jp1 IntroductionThis paper introduces a website called Minna Second, MNH provides comprehensive lan-no Hon?yaku (MNH, ?Translation for All?, Fig- guage resources, which are easily looked up inure 1), which hosts online volunteer translators QRedit.
MNH, in cooperation with Sanseido,(Utiyama et al, 2009).1 Its core features are (1) a provides ?Grand Concise English Japanese Dic-set of translation aid tools, (2) high quality, com- tionary?
(Sanseido, 2001) and plans to provideprehensive language resources, and (3) the legal ?Grand Concise Japanese English Dictionary?sharing of translations.
(Sanseido, 2002) in fiscal year 2010.
These dic-First, the translation aid tools in MNH con- tionaries have about 360,000 and 320,000 en-sist of the translation aid editor, QRedit, a bilin- tries, respectively, and are widely accepted asgual concordancer, and a bilingual term extrac- standard and comprehensive dictionaries amongtion tool.
These tools help volunteer translators translators.
MNH also provides seamless accessto translate their documents easily as described to the web.
For example, MNH provides a dictio-in Section 3.
These tools also produce language nary that was made from the English Wikipedia.resources that are useful for natural language This enable translators to reference Wikipediaprocessing as the byproduct of their use as de- articles during the translation process as if theyscribed in Section 4. are looking up dictionaries.1Currently, MNH hosts volunteer translators who trans- Third, MNH uses Creative Commons Li-late Japanese (English) documents into English (Japanese).
censes (CCLs) to help translators share theirThe English and Japanese interfaces are available at http: translations.
CCLs are essential for sharing and//trans-aid.jp/en and http://trans-aid.jp/ja, respectively.
opening translations.63Figure 2: Screenshot of QRedit2 Related workThere are many translation support tools, suchas Google Translator Toolkit, WikiBABEL (Ku-maran et al, 2009), BEYtrans (Bey et al, 2008),Caitra (Koehn, 2009) and Idiom WorldServersystem,2 an online multilingual document man-agement system with translation memory func-tions.The functions that MNH provides are closerto those provided by Idiom WorldServer, butMNH provides a high-quality bilingual dictio-naries and functions for seamless Wikipedia andweb searches within the integrated translationaid editor QRedit.
It also enables translators toshare their translations, which are also used aslanguage resources.3 Helping Volunteer translatorsThis section describes a set of translation aidtools installed in MNH.3.1 QReditQRedit is a translation aid system which is de-signed for volunteer translators working mainlyonline (Abekawa and Kageura, 2007).
When aURL of a source language (SL) text is given toQRedit, it loads the corresponding text into theleft panel, as shown in Figure 2.
Then, QReditautomatically looks up all words in the SL text.When a user clicks an SL word, its translationcandidates are displayed in a pop-up window.2http://www.idiominc.com/en/Figure 3: Screenshot of bilingual concordancer3.2 Bilingual concordancerThe translations published on MNH are usedto make a parallel corpus by using a sentencealignment method (Utiyama and Isahara, 2003).MNH also has parallel texts from the AmnestyInternational Japan, Democracy Now!
Japan,and open source software manuals (Ishisaka etal., 2009).
These parallel texts are searched byusing a simple bilingual concordancer as shownin Figure 3.3.3 Bilingual term extraction toolMNH has a bilingual term extraction tool thatis composed of a translation estimation tool(Tonoike et al, 2006) and a term extraction tool(Nakagawa and Mori, 2003).First, we apply the translation estimation toolto extract Japanese term candidates and their En-glish translation candidates.
Next, we apply theterm extraction tool to extract English term can-didates.
If these English term candidates arefound in the English translation candidates, then,we accept these term candidates as the transla-tions of those Japanese term candidates.4 Fostering language resourcesBeing a ?one stop?
translation aid tool for on-line translators, MNH incorporates mechanismswhich enable users to naturally foster impor-tant translation resources, i.e.
terminological re-sources and translation logs.644.1 Terminological resourcesAs with most translation-aid systems, MNH pro-vides functions that enable users to register theirown terminologies.
Users can assign the statusof availability to the registered terms.
They cankeep the registered terms for private use, makethem available for a specified group of people,or make them publicly available.
Several NGOgroups are using MNH for their translation activ-ities.
For instance, Amnesty International, whichuses MNH, maintains a list of term translationsin the field of human rights by which translatorsshould abide.
Thus groups such as Amnesty up-load a pre-compiled list of terms and make themavailable among volunteers.
It is our assumptionand aim that these groups make their termino-logical resources not only available among thegroup but also publicly available, which will cre-ate win-win situation: NGOs and other groupswhich make their lists of terms available willhave more chance of recruiting volunteer trans-lators, while MNH has more chance of attractingfurther users.At the time of writing this paper (May 2010),56,319 terms are registered, of which 45,843 aremade publicly available.
More than 80 per centof the registered terms are made public.
Cur-rently, MNH does not identify duplicated termsregistered by different users, but when the num-ber of registered terms become larger, this andother aspects of quality control of registeredterms will become an important issue.4.2 Translation corpusAnother important language resources accumu-lated on MNH is the translation corpus.
Asmentioned in the introduction, being a hostingsite, MNH naturally accumulates source and tar-get documents with a clear copyright status.
Ofparticular importance in MNH, however, is thatit can accumulate a corpus that contains draftand final translations made by human togetherwith their source texts (henceforth SDF corpusfor succinctness).
This type of corpus is im-portant and useful, because it can be used forthe training of inexperienced translators (for in-stance, the MeLLANGE corpus, which containsdifferent versions of translation, is well knownfor its usefulness in translator training (MeL-LANGE, 2009)) and also because it providesa useful information for improving the perfor-mance of machine translation and translation-aidsystems.
While the importance of such corporahas been widely recognized, the construction ofsuch a corpus is not easy because the data arenot readily available due to the reluctance on theside of translators of releasing the draft transla-tion data.The basic mechanisms of accumulating SDFcorpus is simple.
Translators using MNH savetheir translations to keep the data when they fin-ish the translation.
MNH keeps the log of upto 10 versions of translation for each document.MNH introduced two saving modes, i.e.
snap-shot mode and normal mode.
The translationversion saved in the normal mode is overwrit-ten when the next version is saved.
Translationversions saved in snapshot mode are retained, upto 10 versions.
Translators can thus consciouslykeep the versions of their translations.MNH can collect not only draft and final trans-lations made by a single translator, but also thosemade by different translators.
MNH has a func-tion that enables users to give permission forother translators registered with MNH to edittheir original translations, thus facilitating thecollaborative translations.
Such permission canbe open-ended, or restricted to a particular groupof users.This function is of particular importancefor NGOs, NPOs, university classes and othergroups involved in group-based translation.
Inthese groups, it is a common process in transla-tion that a draft translation is first made by inex-perienced translators, which is then revised andfinalized by experienced translators.
If an inex-perienced translator gives permission of editinghis/her draft translations to experienced transla-tors, the logs of revisions, including the draft andfinal versions, will be kept on MNH database.This is particularly important and useful forthe self-training of inexperienced translators andthus potentially extremely effective for NGOsand other groups that rely heavily on volunteer65Figure 4: Comparative view of different transla-tion versionstranslators.
Many NGOs face chronically theproblem of a paucity of good volunteer transla-tors.
The retention rate of volunteer translators islow, which increase the burden of a small num-ber of experienced translators, leaving them notime to give advice to inexperienced translators,which further reduce the retention rate of volun-teers.
To overcome this vicious cycle, mecha-nisms to enable inexperienced volunteer trans-lators to train themselves in the cycle of actualtranslation activities is urgently needed and ex-pected to be highly effective.
MNH provides acomparative view function of any pairwise trans-lation versions of the same document, as shownin Figure 4.
Translators can check which partsare modified very easily through the compara-tive view screen, which can effectively works asa transfer of translation knowledge from experi-enced translators to inexperienced translators.At the time of writing this paper, MNH con-tains 1850 documents that have more than onetranslation versions, of which 764 are published.The number of documents translated by a group(more than one translator) is 110, of which 48 arepublished.
Although the number of translationsmade by more than one translators is relativelysmall, they are steadily increasing both in num-ber and in ratio.5 ConclusionWe have developed a website called Minna noHon?yaku (MNH, ?Translation for All?
), whichhosts online volunteer translators.
We plan to ex-tend MNH to other language pairs in our futurework.ReferencesAbekawa, Takeshi and Kyo Kageura.
2007.
QRedit:An integrated editor system to support online vol-unteer translators.
In Digital humanities, pages 3?5.Bey, Y., K. Kageura, and C. Boitet.
2008.
BEY-Trans: A Wiki-based environment for helping on-line volunteer translators.
Yuste, E. ed.
Topics inLanguage Resources for Translation and Localisa-tion.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
p. 139?154.Ishisaka, Tatsuya, Masao Utiyama, Eiichiro Sumita,and Kazuhide Yamamoto.
2009.
Development ofa Japanese-English software manual parallel cor-pus.
In MT summit.Koehn, Philipp.
2009.
A web-based interactive com-puter aided translation tool.
In ACL-IJCNLP Soft-ware Demonstrations.Kumaran, A, K Saravanan, Naren Datha, B Ashok,and Vikram Dendi.
2009.
Wikibabel: A wiki-styleplatform for creation of parallel data.
In ACL-IJCNLP Software Demonstrations.MeLLANGE.
2009.
Mellange.
ttp://corpus.leeds.ac.uk/mellange/ltc.tml.Nakagawa, Hiroshi and Tatsunori Mori.
2003.
Au-tomaic term recognition based on statistics of com-pound nouns and their components.
Terminology,9(2):201?209.Sanseido.
2001.
Grand Concise English JapaneseDictionary.
Tokyo, Sanseido.Sanseido.
2002.
Grand Concise Japanese EnglishDictionary.
Tokyo, Sanseido.Tonoike, Masatsugu, Mitsuhiro Kida, Toshihiro Tak-agi, Yasuhiro Sasaki, Takehito Utsuro, and SatoshiSato.
2006.
A comparative study on composi-tional translation estimation usign a domain/topic-specific corpus collected from the web.
In Proc.
ofthe 2nd International Workshop on Web as Corpus,pages 11?18.Utiyama, Masao and Hitoshi Isahara.
2003.
Reli-able measures for aligning Japanese-English newsarticles and sentences.
In ACL, pages 72?79.Utiyama, Masao, Takeshi Abekawa, Eiichiro Sumita,and Kyo Kageura.
2009.
Hosting volunteer trans-lators.
In MT summit.66
