Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 132?138,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsA unified account of the semantics of discourse particlesMarkus EggHumboldt-Universita?t Berlinmarkus.egg@anglistik.hu-berlin.deAbstractThe paper investigates discourse particleson the example of German doch, assigningto them very specific semantic interpreta-tions that still cover a wide range of theiruses.The analysis highlights the role of dis-course particles in managing the commonground and crucially takes into accountthat discourse particles can refer not onlyto utterances they are a part of and to previ-ously uttered utterances, but also to felicityconditions of these utterances.1 IntroductionThis paper advocates very specific semantic in-terpretations for discourse particles, concentratingon German doch.
There is a very wide range ofconcrete usages of discourse particles in context(which has motivated analysing them as polyse-mous, e.g., in Helbig (1988)).Assigning them a uniform semantic interpreta-tion seems to be subject to two conflicting require-ments:?
the interpretation must be sufficiently specificto allow deriving the interpretation of con-crete uses?
it must be sufficiently general to cover a widerange of concrete usesSo far, research on the interpretation of dochfocusses on the second requirement (e.g., Thur-mair (1989), Ko?nig (1997), Karagjosova (2004),or Ko?nig and Requardt (1997)).The meaning of doch emerges as a two-placerelation between the utterance doch is a part of anda previous utterance to which the doch-utterance isa reaction.This relation is described by the featuresKNOWN and CORRECTION in Thurmair (1989),i.e., doch-utterances correct a previous utteranceby introducing old information.
Karagjosova(2004) regards doch-utterances act as reminders,which present old information to hearers.
Ac-cording to Ko?nig and Requardt (1997), doch-utterances point out inconsistencies between oldinformation and a new piece of information or ac-tion.Such general descriptions of doch apply to caseslike Karagjosova?s (1): B reminds A of Peter?sillness, which seems inconsistent with A?s an-nouncement and therefore can act as a correctionof A:(1) A: Peter wird auch mitkommen.
B: Er istdoch krank.
?A: Peter will come along, too.
B: But he isill.
?While these general descriptions (exceptingKaragjosova (2004)) do not spell out in detail theway in which doch contributes to the meaning oflarger discourses, they can capture a wide range ofuses of these particles.There remain a number of problematic cases,including discourse-initial uses of doch-utteranceslike Ko?nig and Requardt?s (2), which functions asan opening line in a conversation, it neither cor-rects nor reminds the hearer, nor is there an incon-sistency between the utterance and the context:(2) Sie sind doch Paul Meier.
?You must be Paul Meier.
?The proposed analysis of the particle doch issufficiently general to account for a wide range ofuses yet being specific enough to specify the se-mantic construction for discourses that comprisedoch.I follow much previous work in developing myanalysis on the basis of simple examples like (1),132and then extending it to cases like (2).
Most ex-amples consist of two utterances, the second utter-ance comprises a discourse particle and is a reac-tion to the first one.
In the remainder of this pa-per, these two utterances are called ?involved ut-terances?.In (1), the (propositional) semantic argumentsof the particle are the meanings of these two utter-ances.
But the semantic arguments of a discourseparticle may differ from the meanings of the in-volved utterances, as illustrated by (3) (from Thur-mair 1989):(3) A: Seit wann hast du denn den,,Zauberberg??
B: Den hast du mir doch vorzwei Jahren geschenkt.A: ?Since when have you owned the?Zauberberg??
B: But you gave it to me twoyears ago.
?B reacts to the implicit statement that A does notknow the answer to his question.
This statement isan argument of doch in (3), even though it is notthe meaning of A?s utterance.
This shows that thesemantic arguments of discourse particles must bedistinguished from the meanings of their involvedutterances.Utterances with a discourse particle and pre-ceding utterances to which they react are called?p(article)-utterances?
(or ?doch-utterances?)
and?a(ntecedent)-utterances?.
They are distinguishedfrom the semantic arguments of the particle,which are referred to as ?p-proposition?
and ?a-proposition?, respectively.This is not just a question of nomenclature butreflects a fundamentally different view on the roleof discourse particles.
Instead of indicating the re-lation between two already identified propositions,the meaning of the particle applied to its first ar-gument (very often but not always the interpreta-tion of the p-utterance) determines the range of po-tential a-propositions in the context of utterance.From this range, the hearer selects the appropriateproposition.This resembles the intuition of Ko?nig andRequardt (1997) that discourse particles are?metapragmatic instructions?
which tell hearershow to deal with the p-utterance in a communica-tive situation.Consequently, a- and p-utterances do not deter-mine the semantic arguments for all uses of dis-course particles, which might account for someproblems of defining the semantics of the particlesin the literature, which is characteristically basedon the meanings of a- and p-utterance.My claim is that there is a link between a- and p-proposition and a- and p-utterance, respectively, inthat the propositions can either be the meanings ofthe utterances or emerge through the felicity con-ditions of the utterances.E.g., in (3) the doch-proposition reminds A ofthe fact that the first preparatory condition for aquestion (that the speaker does not know the an-swer) does not hold, since A (as the one who gavethe book to B) should know since when the bookhas been in B?s possession.The plan of the paper is to introduce back-ground assumptions on discourse particles in sec-tion 2, to apply the proposed approach to the (un-stressed) particle doch in section 3, and to con-clude with an outlook on further research.2 Formal backgroundThis paper follows much previous work in assum-ing that discourse particles refer to the commonground (CG), e.g., Ko?nig (1997), Karagjosova(2004), or Zimmermann (2009).Common ground and the interlocutors?
individ-ual backgrounds are modelled as common or in-dividual belief (Stalnaker, 2002).
Individual be-lief is equated with the set of propositions that aretrue in all possible worlds compatible with the in-dividual?s beliefs; common belief, with the set ofpropositions believed by all members of the re-spective group of believers.Stalnaker notes that this is an idealisation in thatthe CG might comprise propositions not shared bythe background of every member of the group.
Butthis idealisation is not a problem for the analysispresented in this paper.Reasoning on CG and individual backgroundsoften uses defeasible deduction (Asher and Las-carides, 2003).
I.e., from statements of the form?p defeasibly entails q?
(p > q) together with pone can defeasibly deduce q.This defeasible Modus Ponens applies if ?qdoes not hold and ?q cannot be deduced simulta-neously (Asher and Lascarides, 2003).
Defeasiblededucability of p from a set of propositions C iswritten as ?C |?
p?.Reference to the common ground makes the se-mantics of discourse particles context-dependent,because the CG is relative to the interlocutor(s) of133a- and p-utterances.
This shows up in the shiftingeffects observed in Do?ring (2010).
Consider e.g.what happens if one embeds (1) in a quotation likein (4):(4) A sagte, Peter komme auch mit.
Bentgegnete, er sei doch krank.
?A said Peter would come along, too.
Bretorted that he was ill.?The shift in (4) arises because doch presents aproposition (here, that Peter is ill) as part of thecommon ground, and the relevant CG is calcu-lated with respect to A and B, not with respect tothe interlocutors of (4).
I.e., (4) does not expressthat Peter?s illness is in the common ground of thespeaker and hearer of (4).3 The analysisThe proposed approach to discourse particle isnow applied to doch, which introduces a notionof tension between the a- and the p-proposition.3.1 Declarative a- and p-utterancesI will first illustrate this notion with simple ex-amples in which the a-utterance expresses the a-proposition, and the meaning of the declarative p-utterance provides the p-proposition.In (5) [= (1)] and (6), adapted from Karagjosova(2004), there is tension between being ill on theone hand and going out and living healthily on theother hand, respectively:(5) A: Peter wird auch mitkommen.
B: Er istdoch krank.
?A: Peter will come along, too.
B: But he isill.?
(6) Ich bin oft krank.
Dabei lebe ich dochgesund.
?I am often ill.
But I have a healthy lifestyle.
?The intuitive notion of tension between twopropositions p and q is formalised as defeasibleentailment q > ?p.
I.e., given q, one would ex-pect p, but the propositions are not incompatible,even though q is a potential impediment for p.The effect of doch q as a reaction to an a-proposition p against the common ground C is toremind the hearer that C comprises a potential im-pediment q for p, which expresses either surpriseat the fact that p nevertheless holds or puts doubton p. Still, p is not explicitly denied.Formally, doch states that the common groundC defeasibly entails q and the fact that q defeasi-bly entails ?p (which by defeasible Modus Ponenswould allow one to infer ?p, if the conditions fordefeasible Modus Ponens are met):(7) [[doch]](q)(p) iff C |?
q ?
C |?
q > ?pThis analysis differs from the one of Ko?nig(1997), who assumes that doch q points out a con-tradiction in the CG, in that p is incompatible witha consequence of q.
In contrast, I regard thisincompatibility as a default only.
The status ofq as derivable from the CG is also expressed inKaragjosova (2004) claim that doch introduces qas a reminder and in Thurmair?s (1989) featureKNOWN.In (5) and (6), p and q are the semantics of the a-and the doch-utterance.
Being ill is a potential im-pediment for going out, so, by pointing out Peter?sillness in (5), B expresses surprise or disbelief atA?s announcement but does not necessarily correctit or refute it, because even ill people can go out inprinciple.Similarly, the speaker of (6) is surprised at hisfrequent illness, in spite of his healthy lifestyle.
(6) shows that q is only a default impediment: If qand p were contradictory, (6) would be nonsensi-cal, but, intuitively, it is not.The use of defeasible implications to model thetension between two propositions as indicated bydoch is closely related to accounts of the discourserelation of CONCESSION in Grote et al (1997),Oversteegen (1997), Lagerwerf (1998), and Knott(1996).They assume the same kind of defeasible impli-cation for this discourse relation and model it as apresupposition, which is compatible with giving itcommon ground status.3.2 Non-declarative a-utterancesIn (5) and (6), the a-proposition enters the CGas the meaning of an a-utterance.
But the a-proposition can also emerge as a felicity conditionof the a-utterance.
Consider e.g.
doch-utterancesas reactions to questions, as in (8) [= (3)]:(8) A: Seit wann hast du denn den,,Zauberberg??
B: Den hast du mir doch vorzwei Jahren geschenkt.A: ?Since when have you owned the?Zauberberg??
B: But you gave it to me twoyears ago.
?134Doch in (8) expresses surprise at the questionbeing asked, since A himself gave the book to Band hence should know that B owns it.The proposed analysis reconstructs this intu-ition: B?s utterance expresses a proposition q (thatA gave the book to B) and points out that q is partof the CG.
It is also part of the CG that q is a po-tential obstacle for a specific a-proposition p (for-mally, the CG entails q > ?p).Such p-utterances restrict the range of poten-tial a-propositions p, and their hearers try to iden-tify the a-propositions in the given context.
Thea-utterance in (8), however, cannot directly con-tribute p in any context, since its meaning is not aproposition.But due to the assumption that A is coopera-tive, the question introduces into the CG the felic-ity conditions for questions, among them the firstpreparatory condition, viz., that A does not knowthe answer to his question.
This is a suitable p, be-cause it is reasonable to assume that if A gave thebook to B (= q), he should know the answer to thequestion (= ?p).The intuition that the semantic arguments ofdiscourse particles need not be identical to themeanings of the involved utterances is related tosuggestions to let discourse relations relate ei-ther to the content of the discourse segments thatthey link or to the corresponding intensions ofthe speaker or the intended effencts on the hearer,which is suggested by Sweetser (1990) and Knott(2001).Doch-utterances in reaction to imperatives workanalogously, e.g., (9):(9) A: U?bersetze mir bitte diesen Brief.
B: Ichkann doch kein Baskisch.A: ?Please translate this letter for me.?
B:?But I do not know Basque?.Here B?s lack of proficiency in Basque (= q)and A?s belief that B can translate a Basque letter(i.e., the first preparatory condition of the request,our p) are in tension.Now q can be deduced from the commonground either because it has been explicitly in-troduced before or because it makes sense to as-sume defeasibly that someone does not speak aless known language like Basque.
In either case, Ashould not take for granted that B speaks Basque,i.e., has a reason not to require B to translate letterswritten in Basque.This use of doch also shows up in reactionsto declarative statements: The p-utterance of (10)states no potential impediment for the propositionexpressed by A.Rather, B?s use of doch refers to A?s surprise,suggesting that A should not be surprised at all.The felicity condition of expressing surprise thatis cast into doubt by B is considering the factabout which one is surprised as something extraor-dinary, which would not have happened in a nor-mal course of events.
(10) A: Peter sieht schlecht aus.
B: Er war dochlange im Krankenhaus.
?A: Peter does not look healthy.
B: But hehas been in hospital for a long time.
?Peter?s long stay in the hospital (= q) is nopotential obstacle to looking unhealthy, on thecontrary, it entails defeasibly that his looking un-healthy is quite normal (= ?p).
This would negatethe abovementioned felicity condition for A?s sur-prise (= p), hence suggests that A should not besurprised.3.3 Non-declarative p-utterancesAnother group of doch-utterances are imperativeor interrogative (the latter adapted from Thurmair(1989)):(11) Verklag mich doch!
?Go ahead and sue me.?
(12) Komm doch nach Hause!
?Do come home.?
(13) Wie hei?t doch diese Kneipe in derSredzkistra?e?
?What is the name of this pub in theSredzkistra?e??
(14) Wie sagt Goethe doch so treffend?
?What was this piercing remark of Goetheagain??
(15) Du kommst doch?
?I presume that you will be there.
?Doch is used provocatively in imperatives like(11); it suggests that the hearer cannot fulfil therequest.
In cases like (12), doch signals that the re-quested or suggested action is a very natural thingto do.
Doch-questions refer to a piece of knowl-edge that the speaker knows or is supposed to135know (Thurmair, 1989), e.g., (13) indicates thatthe speaker knows the answer at least in principle,(14) announces a quotation, and (15) suggests thatthe answer can only be affirmative.There are two issues in interpreting these sen-tences; the p-utterance does not denote a propo-sition (which could be the semantic argument ofdoch), and there need not be an a-utterance at allfrom which to derive the a-proposition.But in all these utterances, speakers use doch topoint out that they are aware of evidence from theCG which suggests that a felicity condition of theutterance itself does not hold.
This can be mod-elled by identifying the p-proposition q (the argu-ment of doch) with the fact that the sentences wereuttered, which can be (trivially) deduced from thecommon ground C (the condition C |?
q in (7)).Then the felicity conditions associated with dif-ferent kinds of illocutionary acts emerge from thecommon ground C as default entailments from theutterance of the respective illocutionary type (thecondition C |?
q > ?p in (7); here ?p refers toone of the felicity conditions).I.e., using doch in these cases triggers a searchfor a suitable a-proposition p in the CG whichnegates a felicity condition of the utterance.
E.g.,doch in (11) shows that the first preparatory con-dition of a request (the speaker believes that thehearer can do it) does not hold, even though thiscondition follows defeasibly from the fact that therequest was made.In (12), doch addresses the second preparatorycondition of a request or advice (that it is not obvi-ous to speaker and hearer that the hearer complieswith the request in a normal course of events).Thus, doch suggests that it is obvious that thehearer will do anyway what is requested or ad-vised, even though uttering (12) defeasibly entailsthe contrary.
Consequently, (12) presents a requestor advice as a very natural thing to do.I.e., doch-imperatives do not correct unwantedbehaviour by the hearer (pace Thurmair (1989)),which is confirmed by examples like (16), whichcan be uttered between future lovers during theircourtship to take the process of courting one stepfurther:(16) Komm doch mal vorbei!
?Just drop by.?
(16) does not request the hearer to change hisbehaviour, because calling on the speaker was notan option yet.
Instead, visiting the speaker is pre-sented as a very natural thing to do for the hearer,i.e., once more the second preparatory conditionof a request does not hold.Using doch in questions also indicates that afelicity condition of the utterance does not hold,even though its validity could be deduced defeasi-bly from the fact that the question has been asked.The relevant condition is the first preparatory con-dition for questions (that the speaker does notknow the answer already).Doch signals that this condition is not fulfilled,either because the answer escapes the speaker onlymomentarily, as in (13), because he obviouslyknows, as in the conventionalised announcement(14), or because he would not accept a refusal,which settles the question, like in (15).The analysis predicts that doch is not acceptablein ordinary questions, which is borne out e.g.
by(17), because in these questions there is no ten-sion between uttering the question and potentialobstacles for its felicity conditions:(17) *Wer schreibt dir doch?
?But who is corresponding with you?
?Rhetorical questions are also incompatible withdoch, but for a different reason.
Consider e.g.the contrasting dialogue pairs (18a)/(18b) and(18a)/(18c):(18) (a) A: Ich werde meinen 30.
Geburtstagmit einem gro?en Fest feiern.A: ?I?ll throw a big party on theoccasion of my 30th birthday.?
(b) B: Es wu?rde doch keiner zu deinem Festkommen.B: ?But no one would come to yourparty.?
(c) B: *Wer wu?rde doch zu deinem Festkommen?B: ?But who would come to yourparty?
?The inacceptability of (18a)/(18c) - and of therhetorical doch-question in particular - is not dueto the function of the rhetorical question as anegated statement: In this case, (18b) should bean inacceptable response to (18a), too.
(18c) is inacceptable because rhetorical ques-tions characterise statements as CG information(Egg, 2007).
This is also one of the effects ofdoch; consequently, (18c) is as informative as136(18b) but more complex, hence, its use wouldnot comply to conversation maxims (Grice, 1975;Krifka, 1989).To sum up, non-declarative doch-utterances re-fer to their own felicity conditions; since they donot denote propositions, the first semantic argu-ment of doch cannot be the meaning of the doch-utterance.Instead, doch applies to the fact that the speakeruttered the sentence.
In contrast, declarative doch-utterances like in (8) or (9) refer to a felicity con-dition of the non-declarative a-utterance.This analysis of non-declarative doch-utterances also applies to the hitherto extremelyproblematic group of discourse-initial doch-utterances:(19) Morgen fahre ich doch nach Wien.
?Well, I?ll go to Vienna tomorrow.?
(20) Du hast doch ein Auto.
?Well, you have a car.
?These examples are characterised by doch as areminder.
This means that the p-utterance (thespeaker?s travel plans or the fact that the hearer hasa car) contributes information semantically that isalready in the CG.
However, this information isnot obviously in tension to any other information.This raises the question of what the semantic ar-guments of doch are in these cases.Here doch addresses the first preparatory condi-tion for statements, viz., that it is not obvious tothe speaker that the hearer already knows what thespeaker will say.
Uttering the statement (= q) de-feasibly implies this condition (= ?p), but accord-ing to the CG the speaker knows that the hearerknows (= p).
(21) [= (2)] instantiates this case, too:(21) Sie sind doch Paul Meier.
?You must be Paul Meier.
?Telling someone his name obviously violatesthe first preparatory condition for statements,whence the use of doch.Another such case is the use of doch in expres-sions of outrage.
Here doch signals that it is com-mon knowledge that the hearer knows that the sit-uation or action to which the speaker refers is out-rageous:(22) Das ist doch die Ho?he!
?That is the limit!
?Finally, the sincerity condition of a statementcan also be targeted by doch:(23) Da sagt er doch im letzten Moment ab!
?I can?t believe that he cancelled theappointment at the last moment.
?In (23), doch expresses disbelief of the speaker,he cannot believe what he is saying.
This violatesthe sincerity condition for statements.
The effectof doch here is one of expressing surprise.The same effect shows up in exclamative wh-sentences:(24) Wie scho?n Ame?lie doch ist!
?How beautiful Ame?lie is!
?Following analyses of these sentences likeZanuttini and Portner (2003) or Rett (2009), (24)characterises the degree of Ame?lie?s beauty as un-expectedly or surprisingly high.
Hence, doch nat-urally occurs in these exclamatives to deny a beliefof the speaker in what he is stating.In sum, I offered a uniform semantic analysisof doch, which still covers a wide range of its us-ages.
Doch relates two propositions p and q iff q isderivable from the common ground as well as thefact that q defeasibly implies ?p, i.e., q presents apotential impediment for p.The correlation of p and q with utterances isflexible, however: Often q is the meaning ofthe doch-utterance, but for non-declarative anddiscourse-initial declarative doch-utterances, q isthe fact that this utterance has been made.The proposition p can be the meaning of a pre-ceding a-utterance to which the doch-utterance isa reaction.
But especially for non-declarative a-utterances, p can also be one of its felicity con-ditions, or, for discourse-initial doch-utterances, afelicity condition of the utterance itself.4 Conclusion and outlookThe paper outlined a research programme for dis-course particles that captures their meanings invery specific semantic descriptions that neverthe-less account for the wide range of their uses.
Thesetwo competing goals can be pursued simultane-ously because doch-utterances can be integratedflexibly into the meaning of the surrounding dis-course.While discourse particles like doch uniformlyrelate two propositions semantically, the meaningof the utterance of which the particle is a part, and137the meaning of the utterance to which this first ut-terance reacts are not the only feasible semanticarguments of the particles: They can also have fe-licity conditions of these two utterances as seman-tic arguments.This research programme was illustrated by in-vestigating the particle doch.
The next steps noware to extend the coverage of this analysis to otherparticles, in particular, schon, and to contrast ?min-imal pairs?
of discourses which differ only by dis-course particles (e.g., Komm schon!
as opposedto Komm doch!, which both require the hearer tocome).This analysis can also be used for investigationsof stressed and unstressed forms of discourse par-ticles and of the relation between them.
Here it isparticularly interesting to take prosody seriouslyand to look into the semantic effects of emphasis-ing a discourse particle.ReferencesNicholas Asher and Alex Lascarides.
2003.
Logicsof conversation.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge.Sophia Do?ring.
2010.
On context shift in German dis-course particles.
BA thesis, Humboldt-Universita?tBerlin.Markus Egg.
2007.
Meaning and use of rhetoricalquestions.
In Maria Aloni, Paul Dekker, and FlorisRoelofsen, editors, Proceedings of the 16th Amster-dam Colloquium, pages 73?78.
Universiteit van Am-sterdam, ILLC.Paul Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In PeterCole and Jerry Morgan, editors, Syntax and seman-tics 3: Speech acts, pages 41?58.
Academic Press,New York.Brigitte Grote, Nils Lenke, and Manfred Stede.
1997.Ma(r)king concessions in English and German.
Dis-course Processes, 24:87?118.Gerhard Helbig.
1988.
Lexikon deutscher Partikeln.Verlag Enzyklopa?die, Leipzig.Elena Karagjosova.
2004.
The meaning and functionof German modal particles.
Ph.D. thesis, Univer-sita?t des Saarlandes.Alistair Knott.
1996.
A Data-Driven Methodology forMotivating a Set of Coherence Relations.
Ph.D. the-sis, University of Edinburgh.Alistair Knott.
2001.
Semantic and pragmatic relationsand their intended effects.
In T. Sanders, J. Schilper-oord, and W. Spooren, editors, Text representation:linguistic and psycholinguistic aspects, pages 127?151.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.Ekkehard Ko?nig and Susanne Requardt.
1997.
Arelevance-theoretic approach to the analysis ofmodal particles.
Multilingua, 10:63?77.Ekkehard Ko?nig.
1997.
Zur Bedeutung von Modal-partikeln im Deutschen: Ein Neuansatz im Rah-men der Relevanztheorie.
Germanistische Linguis-tik, 136:57?75.Manfred Krifka.
1989.
Nominalreferenz und Zeitkon-stitution.
Fink, Mu?nchen.Luuk Lagerwerf.
1998.
Causal connectives havepresuppositions.
Effects on coherence and discoursestructure.
Ph.D. thesis, Universiteit van Tilburg.Leonoor Oversteegen.
1997.
On the pragmatic natureof causal and contrastive connectives.
DiscourseProcesses, 24:51?85.Jessica Rett.
2009.
A degree account of exclamatives.In Proceedings of SALT XVIII, pages 601?608.
CLCPublications.Robert Stalnaker.
2002.
Common ground.
Linguistics& Philosophy, 25:701?721.Eve Sweetser.
1990.
From etymology to pragmat-ics.
Metaphorical and cultural aspects of semanticstructure.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Maria Thurmair.
1989.
Modalpartikeln und ihre Kom-binationen.
Niemeyer, Tu?bingen.Raffaela Zanuttini and Paul Portner.
2003.
Exclama-tive clauses: At the syntax-semantics interface.
Lan-guage, 79:39?81.Malte Zimmermann.
2009.
Discourse particles.In Claudia Maienborn, Klaus von Heusinger, andPaul Portner, editors, Semantics: an internationalhandbook of natural language meaning.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin.
In press.138
