Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 192?196,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsCombining Parallel Treebanks and Geo-TaggingMartin Volk, Anne Go?hring, Torsten MarekUniversity of Zurich, Institute of Computational Linguisticsvolk@cl.uzh.chAbstractThis paper describes a new kind of seman-tic annotation in parallel treebanks.
Webuild French-German parallel treebanks ofmountaineering reports, a text genre thatabounds with geographical names whichwe classify and ground with reference toa large gazetteer of Swiss toponyms.
Wediscuss the challenges in obtaining a highrecall and precision in automatic ground-ing, and sketch how we represent thegrounding information in our treebank.1 IntroductionTreebanks have become valuable resources in nat-ural language processing as training corpora fornatural language parsers, as repositories for lin-guistic research, or as evaluation corpora for dif-ferent NLP systems.
We define a treebank asa collection of syntactically annotated sentences.The annotation can vary from constituent to de-pendency or tecto-grammatical structures.
Theterm treebank is mostly used to denote manuallychecked collections, but recently it has been ex-tended to also refer to automatically parsed cor-pora.We have built manually checked treebanks forvarious text genres (see section 3): economy texts,a popular science philosophy novel, and technicaluser manuals.
We are now entering a new genre,mountaineering reports, with the goal to link tex-tual to spatial information.
We build French andGerman treebanks of translated texts from theSwiss Alpine Club.
This genre contains a multi-tude of geographical names (e.g.
mountains andvalleys, glaciers and rivers).
Therefore we need toinclude the identification and grounding of thesetoponyms as part of the annotation process.In this paper we first describe our corpus ofalpine texts, then our work on creating paral-lel treebanks which includes aligning the paralleltrees on word and phrase level.
We sketch the dif-ficulties in disambiguating the toponyms and de-scribe our integration of the toponym identifiers asa special kind of semantic annotation in the tree-bank.2 Our Text+Berg CorpusIn our project Text+Berg1 we digitize alpine her-itage literature from various European countries.Currently our group digitizes all yearbooks of theSwiss Alpine Club (SAC) from 1864 until today.Each yearbook consists of 300 to 600 pages andcontains reports on mountain expeditions, cultureof mountain peoples, as well as the flora, faunaand geology of the mountains.The corpus preparation presented interestingchallenges in automatic OCR correction, languageidentification, and text structure recognition whichwe have described in (Volk et al, 2010).As of March 2010 we have scanned and OCR-converted 142 books from 1864 to 1982, corre-sponding to nearly 70,000 pages.
This resulted ina multilingual corpus of 6101 articles in German,2659 in French, 155 in Italian, 13 in Romansch,and 3 in Swiss-German.
The parallel part of ourcorpus currently contains 701 translated articlesamounting to 2.6 million tokens in French and 2.3million tokens in German.3 Parallel TreebanksIn recent years the combined research on tree-banks and parallel corpora has led to parallel tree-banks.
We have built a parallel treebank (En-glish, German, Swedish) which contains 1500 sen-tences in three languages: 500 sentences eachfrom Jostein Gaarder?s novel ?Sophie?s World?,from economy texts (e.g.
business reports frommechanical engineering company ABB and fromthe bank SEB), and from a technical manual with1See www.textberg.ch.192usage instructions for a DVD player (Go?hring,2009).We have annotated the English sentencesaccording to the well-established Penn Tree-bank guidelines.
For German we followed theTIGER annotation guidelines, and we adaptedthese guidelines also for Swedish (see (Volkand Samuelsson, 2004)).
For French treebank-ing we are looking for inspiration from the LeMonde treebank (Abeille?
et al, 2003) and fromL?Arboratoire (Bick, 2010).
The Le Monde tree-bank is a constituent structure treebank partiallyannotated with functional labels.
L?Arboratoire isbased on constraint grammar analysis but can alsooutput constituent trees.3.1 Our Tree Alignment ToolAfter finishing the monolingual trees we alignedthem on the word level and phrase level.
Forthis purpose we have developed the TreeAligner(Lundborg et al, 2007).
This program comes witha graphical user interface to insert or modify align-ments between pairs of syntax trees.2The TreeAligner displays tree pairs with thetrees in mirror orientation (one top-up and one top-down).
This has the advantage that the alignmentlines cross fewer parts of the lower tree.
Figure 1shows an example of a tree pair with alignmentlines.
The lines denote translation equivalence.Both trees are constituent structure trees, but theedge labels contain function labels (like subject,object, attribute) which can be used to easily con-vert the trees to dependency structures (cf.
(Mareket al, 2009)).Recently we have extended the TreeAligner?sfunctionality from being solely an alignment toolto also being a powerful search tool over paralleltreebanks (Volk et al, 2007; Marek et al, 2008).This enables our annotators to improve the align-ment quality by cross-checking previous align-ments.
This functionality makes the TreeAligneralso attractive to a wider user base (e.g.
linguists,translation scientists) who are interested in search-ing rather than building parallel treebanks.3.2 Similar Treebanking ProjectsParallel treebanks have evolved into an active re-search field in the last decade.
Cmejrek et al2The TreeAligner has been implemented in Python byJoakim Lundborg and Torsten Marek and is freely availableat http://kitt.cl.uzh.ch/kitt/treealigner.
(2003) have built a parallel treebank for the spe-cific purpose of machine translation, the Czech-English Penn Treebank with tecto-grammaticaldependency trees.
Other parallel treebank projectsinclude Croco (Hansen-Schirra et al, 2006) whichis aimed at building a English-German tree-bank for translation studies, LinES an English-Swedish parallel treebank (Ahrenberg, 2007), andthe English-French HomeCentre treebank (Hearneand Way, 2006), a hand-crafted parallel treebankconsisting of 810 sentence pairs from a Xeroxprinter manual.Some researchers have tried to exploit paralleltreebanks for example-based or statistical machinetranslation (Tinsley et al, 2009).
Since manuallycreated treebanks are too small for this purpose,various researchers have worked on automaticallyparsing and aligning parallel treebanks.
Zhechev(2009) and Tiedemann and Kotze?
(2009) havepresented methods for automatic cross-languagephrase alignment.There have been various attempts to enrichtreebanks with semantic information.
For exam-ple, the Propbank project has assigned semanticroles to Penn treebank sentences (Kingsbury et al,2002).
Likewise the SALSA project has addedframe-semantic annotations on top of syntax treesfrom the German TIGER treebank (Burchardt etal., 2006).
Frame-semantics was extended to par-allel treebanks by (Pado?, 2007) and (Volk andSamuelsson, 2007).
To our knowledge a treebankwith grounded toponym information has not beencreated yet.4 Geo-TaggingNamed entity recognition is an important aspect ofinformation extraction.
But it has also been recog-nized as important for the access to heritage data.In a previous project we have investigated meth-ods for named entity recognition in newspapertexts (Volk and Clematide, 2001).
In that workwe had only distinguished two types of geograph-ical names: city names and country names.
Thiswas sufficient for texts that dealt mostly with factslike a company being located in a certain coun-try or having started business in a certain city.In contrast to that, our alpine text corpus dealswith much more fine-grained location informa-tion: mountains and valleys, glaciers and climb-ing routes, cabins and hotels, rivers and lakes.
Infact the description of movements (e.g.
in moun-193MonteNE RosaNEderART RundtourNN umAPPR denARTDasART klassischeADJA Endst?ckNN desART Schwarzberg-WeisstorsNEderART GletscherpassNNausAPZR istVAFINvonAPPR ZermattNN .$..PCT_SestV leD_def colN_C glaciaireA_qual deP Schwarzberg-WeisstorN_PLaD_def derni?reA_qual ?tapeN_C ?P partirV deP ZermattN_PduP tourN_C duP MontN_P RoseN_PHDNPPNC PNCPN NK HDNPNK HD AGNPHD HDNKPPNK HDNPHD NKPPNK HD MNRMNRNPNK NK HD AGNPHD SPSP SHDHDHDHDNPPPMONPSPHDPHDHDNPPPMOHDHDHDPNC PNCNPPPMONPPPMO NPSP SFigure 1: German-French tree pair with alignments in the TreeAligner.tains) requires all kinds of intricate references topositions and directions in three dimensions.In order to recognize the geographical names inour corpus we have acquired a large list of Swisstoponyms.4.1 The SwissTopo Name ListThe Swiss Federal Office of Topography (www.swisstopo.ch) maintains a database of allnames that appear on its topographical maps.
Wehave obtained a copy of this database which con-tains 156,755 names in 61 categories.
Categoriesinclude settlements (10 categories ranging fromlarge cities to single houses), bodies of water (13categories from major rivers to ponds and wells),mountains (7 categories from mountain ranges tosmall hills), valleys, mountain passes, streets andman-made facilities (e.g.
bridges and tunnels), andsingle objects like hotels, mountain cabins, monu-ments etc.
Some objects are subclassified accord-ing to size.
For example, cities are subdivided intomain, large, middle and small cities according totheir number of inhabitants.Every name is listed in the SwissTopo databasewith its coordinates, its altitude (if applicable andavailable), the administrative unit to which it be-longs (usually the name of a nearby town), and thecanton.4.2 A First Experiment: Finding MountainNamesWe selected an article from the SAC yearbookof 1900 to check the precision and recall of au-tomatically identifying mountain names based onthe SwissTopo name list.
The article is titled?Bergfahrten im Clubgebiet (von Dr. A. Walker)?.It is an article in German with a wealth of Frenchmountain names since the author reports about hishikes in the French speaking part of Switzerland.We took the article after OCR without any furthermanual correction.
After our tokenization (incl.the splitting of punctuation symbols) it consistedof 9380 tokens.We used the SwissTopo mountain names classi-fied as ?Massiv, HGipfel, GGipfel, and KGipfel?i.e.
the 4 highest mountain classes.
They consist of5588 mountain names.
This leads to a recall of 54mountain names (20 different mountain names) at194the expense of erroneously marking 6 nouns Gen-darm, Haupt, Kamm, Stand, Stein, Turm as moun-tain names.How many mountain names have we missedto identify?
A manual inspection showed thatthere are another 92 mountain names (35 differ-ent mountain names) missing.
So recall of thenaive exact matching is below 40% despite thelarge gazetteer.
We have reported on a number ofreasons for missed names in (Volk et al, 2010).We found that spelling variations and partial co-references account for the majority of recall prob-lems.
In addition we need to disambiguate be-tween name-noun and name-name homographs.This leaves the issue on how to represent the geo-tagging information in our treebank.5 Geonames in TreebanksNamed entity classification can be divided intoname recognition, disambiguation and grounding.The first two steps are applicable to all kinds ofnames.
The final step of grounding the names isdifferent depending on the name types.
A per-son name may be grounded by refering to the per-son?s Wikipedia page.
The same could be donefor a geographical name.
The obvious disadvan-tage are changing URLs and missing Wikipediapages.
The goal of grounding must be to linkthe name to the most stable and most reliable?ground?.
Therefore toponyms are often linked totheir geographical coordinates.
We have chosen tolink the toponyms from our alpine texts to uniqueidentifiers in the SwissTopo database.
This workswell for Swiss names and particularly well for par-allel French-German sentence pairs.
The cross-language alignment assures that the names are rec-ognized in either language and the classificationinformation can then automatically be transferedto the other language.In our example in figure 1, the mountain name?Monte Rosa?
is listed in SwissTopo with its al-titude (4633 m) and its location close to Zermatt.Since ?Zermatt?
itself occurs in the sentence, thisis strong evidence that we have identified the cor-rect mountain, and we will attach its SwissTopoidentification number in our treebank.
Technicallythis means we add a reference to the gazetteer andto the identifier within the gazetteer into the XMLrepresentation of the linguistic object.In our German example sentence ?Monte Rosa?is annotated as a proper name (PN).
This occur-rence is phrase 502 in sentence 311 of our tree-bank.
The grounding id (g id) is taken from Swis-sTopo which then allows us to access the geo-graphical coordinates, the altitude and neighbor-hood information.<nt id="s311_502"cat="PN"g_source="SwissTopo"g_id="7355873" >Instead of integrating the grounding pointers di-rectly in the XML file of the treebank, it is possibleto use stand-off annotation by connecting the iden-tifier of the geo-name with the identifier from thegazetteer in a separate file.The alignments in our parallel treebank leadto the advantage that the grounding informationneeds to be saved only once.
In our example, thecorresponding mountain name ?Mont Rose?
in theFrench translation is listed in SwissTopo only as abuilding in the municipality of Genthod in the can-ton Geneva.
Since we have strong evidence fromthe German sentence, we can rule out this option.Zermatt itself occurs in both the French andGerman sentences in our example.
It is listed inSwissTopo with its altitude (1616 m) and classi-fied as mid-sized municipality (2000 to 10,000 in-habitants).
Zermatt is a unique name in SwissTopoand therefore is grounded via its SwissTopo identi-fier.
Likewise we ground ?Schwarzberg Weisstor?
(spelled without hyphen in SwissTopo) which islisted as foot pass in the municipality of Saas-Almagell.
In case of doubt we could verifythat Saas-Almagell and Zermatt are neighboringtowns, which indeed they are.6 ConclusionsGrounding toponyms in parallel treebanks repre-sents a new kind of semantic annotation.
We havesketched the issues in automatic toponym classi-fication and disambiguation.
We are working ona French-German parallel treebank of alpine textswhich contain a multitude of toponyms that de-scribe way-points on climbing or hiking routes butalso panorama views.
We are interested in iden-tifying all toponyms in order to enable treebankaccess via geographical maps.
In the future wewant to automatically compute and display climb-ing routes from the textual descriptions.
The an-notated treebank will then serve as a gold standardfor the evaluation of the automatic geo-tagging.195ReferencesAnne Abeille?, Lionel Cle?ment, and Francois Toussenel.2003.
Building a Treebank for French.
In AnneAbeille?, editor, Building and Using Parsed Corpora,volume 20 of Text, Speech and Language Technol-ogy, chapter 10, pages 165?187.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Lars Ahrenberg.
2007.
LinES: An English-Swedishparallel treebank.
In Proc.
of Nodalida, Tartu.Eckhard Bick.
2010.
FrAG, a hybrid constraint gram-mar parser for French.
In Proceedings of LREC,Malta.A.
Burchardt, K. Erk, A. Frank, A. Kowalski, S. Pado?,and M. Pinkal.
2006.
The SALSA corpus: A Ger-man corpus resource for lexical semantics.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC 2006, pages 969?974, Genoa.Martin Cmejrek, Jan Curin, and Jiri Havelka.
2003.Treebanks in machine translation.
In Proc.
Of the2nd Workshop on Treebanks and Linguistic Theo-ries, pages 209?212, Va?xjo?.Anne Go?hring.
2009.
Spanish expansion of a paralleltreebank.
Lizentiatsarbeit, University of Zurich.Silvia Hansen-Schirra, Stella Neumann, and MihaelaVela.
2006.
Multi-dimensional annotation andalignment in an English-German translation corpus.In Proceedings of the EACL Workshop on Multidi-mensional Markup in Natural Language Processing(NLPXML-2006), pages 35?
42, Trento.Mary Hearne and Andy Way.
2006.
Disambiguationstrategies for data-oriented translation.
In Proceed-ings of the 11th Conference of the European Asso-ciation for Machine Translation (EAMT), pages 59?68, Oslo.P.
Kingsbury, M. Palmer, and M. Marcus.
2002.Adding semantic annotation to the Penn TreeBank.In Proceedings of the Human Language TechnologyConference (HLT?02), San Diego.Joakim Lundborg, Torsten Marek, Mae?l Mettler, andMartin Volk.
2007.
Using the StockholmTreeAligner.
In Proc.
of The 6th Workshop on Tree-banks and Linguistic Theories, Bergen, December.Torsten Marek, Joakim Lundborg, and Martin Volk.2008.
Extending the TIGER query language withuniversal quantification.
In Proceeding of KON-VENS, pages 3?14, Berlin.Torsten Marek, Gerold Schneider, and Martin Volk.2009.
A framework for constituent-dependencyconversion.
In Proceedings of the 8th Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories, Milano, Decem-ber.Sebastian Pado?.
2007.
Cross-Lingual AnnotationProjection Models for Role-Semantic Information.Ph.D.
thesis, Saarland University, Saarbru?cken.Jo?rg Tiedemann and Gideon Kotze?.
2009.
Buildinga large machine-aligned parallel treebank.
In Pro-ceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Tree-banks and Linguistic Theories, pages 197?208, Mi-lano.John Tinsley, Mary Hearne, and Andy Way.
2009.Exploiting parallel treebanks to improve phrase-based statistical machine translation.
In Computa-tional Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing.Springer.Martin Volk and Simon Clematide.
2001.
Learn-filter-apply-forget.
Mixed approaches to named en-tity recognition.
In Ana M. Moreno and Reind P.van de Riet, editors, Applications of Natural Lan-guage for Information Systems.
Proc.
of 6th Inter-national Workshop NLDB?01, volume P-3 of Lec-ture Notes in Informatics (LNI) - Proceedings, pages153?163, Madrid.Martin Volk and Yvonne Samuelsson.
2004.
Boot-strapping parallel treebanks.
In Proc.
of Work-shop on Linguistically Interpreted Corpora (LINC)at COLING, Geneva.Martin Volk and Yvonne Samuelsson.
2007.
Frame-semantic annotation on a parallel treebank.
In Proc.of Nodalida Workshop on Building Frame SemanticsResources for Scandinavian and Baltic Languages,Tartu.Martin Volk, Joakim Lundborg, and Mae?l Mettler.2007.
A search tool for parallel treebanks.
In Proc.of Workshop on Linguistic Annotation at ACL, pages85?92, Prague.Martin Volk, Noah Bubenhofer, Adrian Althaus, MayaBangerter, Lenz Furrer, and Beni Ruef.
2010.
Chal-lenges in building a multilingual alpine heritage cor-pus.
In Proceedings of LREC, Malta.Ventsislav Zhechev.
2009.
Automatic Generation ofParallel Treebanks.
An Efficient Unsupervised Sys-tem.
Ph.D. thesis, School of Computing at DublinCity University.196
