Proceedings of SSST-4, Fourth Workshop on Syntax and Structure in Statistical Translation, pages 61?65,COLING 2010, Beijing, August 2010.Arabic morpho-syntactic feature disambiguation ina translation contextInes Turki Khemakhem, Salma Jamoussi, Abdelmajid Ben HamadouMIRACL Laboratory, ISIM Sfax, P?le Technologiqueines_turki@yahoo.fr, salma.jammoussi@isimsf.rnu.tn,abdelmajid.benhamadou@isimsf.rnu.tnAbstractMorphological analysis and disambigua-tion are crucial stages in a variety of nat-ural language processing applicationssuch as machine translation, especiallywhen languages with complex morphol-ogy are concerned such as Arabic.
Arab-ic is a highly flexional language, in that,the same root can lead to various formsaccording to its context.
In this paper, wepresent a system which disambiguatesthe output of a morphological analyzerfor Arabic.
The Arabic morphologicalanalyzer used consists of a set of allpossible morphological analyses for eachword, with the unique correct syntacticfeature.
We want to choose the correctfeatures using the features generated bythe morphological analyzer for theFrench language in the other side.
To ob-tain this data, we used the results of thealignment of word trained with GIZA++(Och and Ney, 2003).1 IntroductionArabic is characterized by a rich morphology.Due to the fact that the Arabic script usuallydoes not encode short vowels, the degree ofmorphological ambiguity is very high.
In addi-tion to being inflected for gender, number,words can be attached to various clitics for con-junction "?"
(and), the definite article "??"
(the),prepositions (e.g.
"?"
(by/with), "?"
(for), "?
"(as)), object pronouns (e.g.
"??"
(their/them)).The morphological analysis of a word consistsof determining morphological information abouteach word, such as part-of-speech (i.e., noun,verb, particle, etc), voice, gender, number, in-formation about the clitics, etc.
Morphologicalanalysis and disambiguation are crucial pre-processing steps for a variety of natural languageprocessing applications, from search and infor-mation extraction to machine translation.
Forlanguages with complex morphology these arenontrivial processes.Arabic words are often ambiguous in theirmorphological analysis.
This is due to Arabic?srich system of affixation and clitics and theomission of disambiguating short vowels.
Theproblem is that many words have differentmeanings depending on their diacritization.
Thisleads to ambiguity when processing data for nat-ural language processing applications such asmachine translation.
This propriety has an im-portant implication for statistical modeling of theArabic language.In this paper, we present a novel morphologypreprocessing technique for Arabic.
We exploitthe Arabic morphology-French alignment tochoose a correct morpho-syntactic feature pro-duced by a morphological analyzer.This paper is organized as follows: section 2gives a brief description of some related worksto the introduction of morphological disambigu-ation.
Section 3 presents the used morphologicalanalyzer Morph2 for Arabic texts, able to recog-nize word composition and to provide more spe-cific morphological information about it.
Wepresent in section 4 some problems in contextmorpho-syntactic feature choice; in the remaind-er of this section we discuss the complexity ofArabic morphology and the challenge of mor-phological disambiguation.
Section 5 gives ashort overview of the data and tools used for ourArabic word Morpho-syntactic feature disam-biguation and shows the experimental details ofour system.
Finally, section 6 presents someconclusions.612 Related workMorphological analysis and disambiguation arecrucial pre-processing steps for a variety ofnatural language processing applications.Previous research has focused ondisambiguating the output of a morphologicalanalyzer.
Hajic (2000) is the first to use adictionary as a source of possible morphologicalanalyses (and hence tags) for an inflected wordform.
He convincingly shows that for fiveEastern European languages with complexinflection plus English, using a morphologicalanalyzer improves performance of a tagger.
Heconcludes that for highly inflectional languages?the use of an independent morphologicaldictionary is the preferred choice more annotateddata?.
He redefines the tagging task as a choiceamong the tags proposed by the dictionary, usinga log-linear model trained on specific ambiguityclasses for individual morphological features.Hajic (2000) demonstrates convincingly thatmorphological disambiguation can be aided by amorphological analyzer, which, given a wordwithout any context, gives us the set of allpossible morphological tags.The only work on Arabic tagging that uses acorpus for training and evaluation, (Diab et al,2004), does not use a morphological analyzer.Diab et al (2004) perform tokenization, POStagging and base phrase chunking using a SVMbased learner.The Morphological Analysis andDisambiguation of Arabic (MADA) system isdescribed in (Habash and Rambow, 2005).
Thebasic approach used in MADA is inspired by thework of Hajic (2000) for taggingmorphologically rich languages, which wasextended to Arabic.
Habash and Rambow (2005)use SVM-classifiers for individualmorphological features and a simple combiningscheme for choosing among competing analysesproposed by the dictionary.3 Arabic word  segmenterArabic is a morphologically complex language.Compared with French, an Arabic word cansometimes correspond to a whole French sen-tence (Example : the Arabic word "???????????"
cor-responds in French to the sentence "Est-ce quevous vous souvenez de nous", in English: "Doyou remember us").The aim of a morphological analysis step is torecognize word composition and to provide spe-cific morphological information about it.
ForExample : the word "??????"
(in French: con-na?ssent, in English: they know) is the result ofthe concatenation of the prefix "?"
indicating thepresent and suffix "??"
indicating the pluralmasculine of the verb "???"
(in French: con-na?tre, in English: to know).
The morphologicalanalyzer determines for each word the list of allits possible morphological features.In Arabic language, some conjugated verbs orinflected nouns can have the same orthographicform due to absence of vowels (Example : non-voweled Arabic word "???"
can be a verb in thepast "??????"
(He dismissed), or a masculine noun"??????"
(chapter / season), or a concatenation ofthe coordinating conjunction "  ?? "
(then) with theverb "??
": imperative of the verb (bind)).In this work, In order to handle the morpho-logical ambiguities, we decide to use MORPH2(Belguith et al, 2006), an Arabic morphologicalanalyzer developed at the Miracl laboratory1.MORPH2 is based on a knowledge-based com-putational method.
It accepts as input an Arabictext, a sentence or a word.
Its morphological dis-ambiguation and analysis method is based onfive steps:?
A tokenization process is applied in afirst step.
It consists of two sub-steps.First, the text is divided into sentences,using the system Star (Belguith et al,2005), an Arabic text tokenizer based oncontextual exploration of punctuationmarks and conjunctions of coordination.The second sub-step detects the differentwords in each sentence.?
A morphological preprocessing stepwhich aims to extract clitics agglutinatedto the word.
A filtering process is thenapplied to check out if the remainingword is a particle, a number, a date, or aproper noun.?
An affixal analysis is then applied to de-termine all possible affixes and roots.
Itaims to identify basic elements belonging1 http://www.miracl.rnu.tn62to the constitution of a word (the root andaffixes i.e.
prefix, infix and suffix).?
The morphological analysis step consistsof determining for each word, all itspossible morpho-syntactic features (i.e,part of speech, gender, number, time,person, etc.).
Morpho-syntactic featuresdetection is made up on three stages.
Thefirst stage identifies the part-of-speech ofthe word (i.e.
verb "???
", noun "???
", par-ticle "????"
and proper noun "???
???").
Thesecond stage extracts for each part-of-speech a list of its morpho-syntactic fea-tures.
A filtering of these feature lists ismade in the third stage.?
Vocalization and validation step : eachhandled word is fully vocalized accord-ing to its morpho-syntactic features de-termined in the previous step.In our method, each Arabic word, from Arab-ic data, is replaced by its segmented form, wherestem, clitic and affix are featured with theirmorphological classes (e.g.
proclitic, prefix,stem, suffix and enclitic).
For example: the word"????????"
(in French: "et nous les avons connu",in English: "and we have known them") is theresult of the concatenation of the proclitic "??
"(then): coordinating conjunction, the suffix "??
"for the present masculine plural, enclitic "??"
(forthe masculine plural possession pronoun), andthe rest of the word "???"
indicating the stem.So, the word "????????"
will be replaced by:"enclitic   ?
?_ suffix_  ??
Stem_  ???
proclitic ?_ "4 Problems in context Morpho-syntactic feature choiceAs mentioned in section 1, ambiguities in Arabicword are mainly caused by the absence of theshort vowels.
Thus, a word can have differentmeanings.
There are also the usual homographsof uninflected words with/without the same pro-nunciation, which have different meanings andusually different POS?s.
For example: the word"???
", in English: "gold" and "???
", in English:"go".
In Arabic there are four categories ofwords: noun, proper noun, verbs and particles.The absence of short vowels can cause ambigui-ties within the same category or across differentcategories.
For example: the word "???"
corres-ponds to many categories (table 1).meanings of a word "???"
Categoriesafter Particuleremoteness Nounremove Verbgo away VerbTable 1.
Different meanings of a word "???
"Arabic uses a diverse system of prefixes, suf-fixes, and pronouns that are attached to thewords (Soudi, 2007).In fact, in Arabic language, the word: "???
"can be a verb in the past (He filed), or a mascu-line noun (state), or a concatenation of the coor-dinating conjunction "?"
(and) with the verb"??
": imperative of the verb (filed).
For this rea-son, correct morphological analysis is requiredto resolve structural ambiguities among Arabicsentence.5 Word Morpho-syntactic feature dis-ambiguation5.1 Training corpusThe training corpus used in this work is anArabic-French bitext aligned at the sentencelevel.
Each Arabic word, from Arabic data, isreplaced by its segmented form.
In the otherside, the French corpus is part-of-speech (POS)tagged by using treetagger tool (Schmid, 1994)for annotating text with part-of-speech andlemma information.5.2 Alignment modelThe aligned model was trained with GIZA++(Och and Ney, 2003), which implements themost typical IBM and HMM alignment models.The alignment model used consists of IBM-1,HMM, IBM-3 and IBM-4.5.3 Using treetagger for Arabic WordMorpho-syntactic feature disambigua-tionTo pre-process the Arabic data, we use theMORPH2 morphological analyzer (Belguith etal., 2006).
A sample output of the morphologi-cal analyzer is shown in Figure 1.63Figure 1.
Possible analyses for the word "???
"The obtained output consists of a set of allpossible morphological analyses for each word,with the unique correct analysis.
One needs toselect the right meaning by looking at the con-text.
Given the highly inflection nature of Arab-ic, resolving ambiguities is syntactically harderwithin the same category.
We want to choose thecorrect output using the features generated byTreeTagger applied to the French corpus.To obtain this correct feature, we needed tomatch data in the segmented Arabic corpus tothe lexeme and feature representation output byTreeTagger.
The matching included the resultsof the alignment of word between the segmentedArabic corpus and the part-of-speech taggedFrench corpus.Example : the word "????????"
(in French: "etnous les avons connu", in English: "and we haveknown them") is segmented by:"?_ proclitic ??
?_ stem ?
?_ suffix ?
?_ "encliticThe part-of-speech tagged of the French sen-tence is:"et_KON nous_PRO:PER les_PRO:PERavons_VER:pres connu_VER:pper"The result of the alignment between these twosentences is:(a) ?_     proclitic ??
?_      stem ?
?_   suffix ?
?_ enclitic(b) Et nous les avons ConnuKON PRO:PER PRO:PER VER:pres VER:pperFigure 2.
(a) Output of morphological analysisMORPH2: segmented Arabic sentence, (b)French translation and its alignment with seg-mented morphological analysisThe stem "???"
is aligned with the word:"connu" : the past participle of the verb "con-na?tre" (in English : "known").
We can deducethat the part of speech of the stem "???"
is averb.Morpho-syntactic features provided by Tree-Tagger are verb, proper noun, noun, adjective,adverb, conjunction, pronoun, preposition, etc.The morpho-syntactic feature of Arabic wordsaligned with French words tagged by adjectiveor noun will be replaced by the morpho-syntactic feature : noun: "???".
While, the mor-pho-syntactic feature : adverb, conjunction, orprepostion will be replaced by the Arabic mor-pho-syntactic feature : particle : "????
".We can attest that the use of morpho-syntacticfeatures provided by the part-of-speech taggedcorpus in the other side can remove disambigua-tion of morpho-syntactic feature of the Arabicword provided by a morphological analyser, es-pecially for agglutinative and inflectional lan-guages.5.4 Experimental resultsIn our experiments, on the entire corpus, theMORPH2 morphological analyzer makes 1152errors (27%).
Table 2 shows the results obtainedwith the morphological analyzer MORPH2,BASELINE, and the results obtained with theArabic morphology-French alignment, treetag-ger-to-morph2, where Arabic morphology-French alignment is used to choose a correct64morpho-syntactic feature produced by a morpho-logical analyzer  MORPH2.System Accuracy (%)BASELINE 73%treetagger-to-morph288%Table 2.
Results of treetagger-to-morph2 com-pared against BASELINE on the task of POStagging of Arabic textThus one can observe that, for Arabic, thetreetagger-to-morph2 outperforms the BASE-LINE tagger with a significant absolute differ-ence of 15% in tagging accuracy.The performance of treetagger-to-morph2 isbetter than the baseline BASELINE.
The errorsencountered result from confusing nouns withverbs, particles or vice versa.
This is to becaused by the presence of homographs of Arabicwords, which have different meanings and dif-ferent POS?s.6 ConclusionMorphological disambiguation of Arabic is adifficult task which involves, in theory, thou-sands of possible tags.In this paper, we present a system which dis-ambiguates the output of a morphological ana-lyzer for Arabic.
Arabic is a morphologicallyrich language, and Morphological analysis anddisambiguation are crucial stages in a variety ofnatural language processing applications.We first applied an Arabic word segmentationstep, to improve the alignments models.
So weuse the Arabic morphological analyzerMORPH2.
Then, we proposed to use TreeTag-ger tool, able to annotate text with part-of-speech and lemma information, where eachword from French corpus is agglutinated to itspart-of-speech (POS).
The sentence alignmentbetween Arabic and French corpus was trainedwith GIZA++.
The core idea is to avoid morpho-syntactic ambiguity of the Arabic words ob-tained in the MORPH2 output by using the partof speech of corresponding aligned French word.We showed that imposing Arabic-French align-ment dependent constraints on possible se-quences of analyses improves the morphologicaldisambiguation.Future work will focus on taking advantage ofour efficient technique.
We are very interested touse Word Morpho-syntactic feature disambigua-tion to build up an efficient French-Arabic trans-lation system.ReferencesBelguith L., and Cha?ben N. 2006.
Analyse et d?-sambigu?sation morphologiques de textes    arabesnon voyell?s, Actes de la 13?me confrence sur leTraitement Automatique des Langues Naturelles,Leuven Belgique, 493-501.Belguith L., Baccour L. and Mourad G. 2005.
Seg-mentation des textes arabes bas?e sur l'analysecontextuelle des signes de ponctuations et de cer-taines particules.
Actes de la 12?me Conf?renceannuelle sur le Traitement Automatique desLangues Naturelles, 451-456.Diab M., Hacioglu K., and Jurafsky D. 2004.
Auto-matic tagging of Arabic text: From raw text tobase phrase chunks.
In 5th Meeting of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics/Human Language TechnologiesConference (HLT-NAACL04), Boston, MA.Habash N. and Rambow O.. 2005.
Arabic tokeniza-tion, part-of-speech tagging and morphologicaldisambiguation in one fell swoop.
In Proceedingsof the 43rd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL?05), Ann Arbor,Michigan, June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
573?580Hajic J.
2000.
Morphological tagging: Data vs. dic-tionaries.
In 1st Meeting of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (NAACL?00), Seattle, WA.Och F. J., and Ney H. 2003.
A Systematic compari-son of various statistical alignment models, Com-putational Linguistics, 29(1): 19-51.Och F. J., Ney H. 2004.
The alignment template ap-proach to statistical machine translation, Computa-tional Linguistics, 30(4): 417-449.Schmid H. 1994.
Probabilistic Part-of-speech Tag-ging Using Decision Trees.
In Proceedings of In-ternational Conference on New Methods in Lan-guage Processing, Manchester.
44-49.Soudi A., Bosch A. and Neumann G. Arabic Compu-tational Morphology: Knowledge-based and Em-pirical Methods.
Springer, 2007.65
