Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 152?156,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsProposal for Multi-Word Expression Annotation in Running TextIris Hendrickx, Ama?lia Mendes and Sandra AntunesCentro de Lingu?
?stica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal{iris, amalia.mendes, sandra.antunes}@clul.ul.ptAbstractWe present a proposal for the annotationof multi-word expressions in a 1M corpusof contemporary portuguese.
Our aim isto create a resource that allows us to studymulti-word expressions (MWEs) in theircontext.
The corpus will be a valuable ad-ditional resource next to the already ex-isting MWE lexicon that was based on amuch larger corpus of 50M words.
In thispaper we discuss the problematic cases forannotation and proposed solutions, focus-ing on the variational properties of MWEs.1 IntroductionGiven the widespread studies of co-occurringwords phenomenon, the term ?multi-word expres-sion?
(MWE) usually refers to a sequence of wordsthat act as a single unit, embracing all differenttypes of word combinations.
Their study is ofextreme importance for computational linguistics,where applications find notorious difficulties whendealing with them (Sag et al, 2002).Having a well-balanced corpus annotated withmulti-word expressions offers the possibility toanalyze the behavior of MWEs as they appear inrunning text.
Such corpus will contain a rich anddiversified set of MWE and also be an excellentresource to evaluate automatic MWE identifica-tion systems.
Here we propose our approach tothe manual annotation of the CINTIL corpus (Bar-reto et al, 2006) with MWE information.
ThisPortuguese corpus of 1M tokens is a balanced cor-pus of both spoken and written data from differentsources and has been previously annotated withlinguistic information such as part-of-speech andlemma and inflection.As the starting point for our annotation project,we want to use a Portuguese MWE lexicon con-taining approximately 14,000 entries.
The lexi-con contains besides idiomatic expressions, alsomany collocations: expressions of frequently co-occurring words that do not show syntactic or se-mantic fixedness.
We are mostly interested in theidiomatic expressions and will only mark up thesein the corpus.2 Related WorkThere is already quite some work about the cre-ation and representation of MWE lexicons (Bald-win and Kim, 2010).
Most of the currently avail-able corpora annotated with MWE informationconsist of a collection of extracted sentences con-taining a MWE (for example the data sets in theMWE 2008 shared task1).
Fellbaum et al (2006)report on a larger German example corpus consist-ing of MWEs with their surrounding sentences.There are also data sets specifically designed forautomatic MWE identification, in which part ofthe sentences contains an idiomatic expression andthe other part expresses a literal meaning (e.g.
(Sporleder and Li, 2009)).
An example of a bal-anced corpus fully annotated with MWEs is thePrague Treebank which is enriched with a diverseset of MWE annotations (Bo?hmova?
et al, 2005).3 MWE LexiconOur annotation proposal uses information froma lexicon of MWE for Portuguese (available on-line2).
This lexicon is implemented on a MySQLrelational database.
The MWEs were extractedfrom a 50M words balanced corpus of Portuguese.The MWE are organized under canonical forms.Also inflectional variations of the canonical formsare recorded, in total the lexicon contains 14,153canonical forms and 48,154 MWEs variations.
Foreach of those several examples are collected fromthe corpus.
Each MWE entry is also assigned1More infomation at: http://multiword.sourceforge.net/2MWE lexicon: http://www.clul.ul.pt/sectores/linguisticade corpus/manual combinatorias online.php152to one or multiple word lemmas, of a total num-ber of 1180 single word lemmas.
The MWEwere selected from a sorted list of n-grams basedon the mutual information measure (Church andHanks, 1990) and validated manually (Mendes etal., 2006; Antunes et al, 2006; Bacelar do Nasci-mento et al, 2006).4 Proposed annotationIn this section we discuss our approach to the an-notation of MWEs in the corpus.4.1 TypologyWe want to classify each idiomatic MWE occur-ring in the CINTIL corpus according to a typol-ogy that expresses the typical properties of theMWE.
Although the lexicon of MWEs covers awide range of units, from idiomatic expressionsto collocations, we decided to restrict our anno-tation of the corpus to cases of idiomatic MWEsbecause those are the problematic ones for anytask of semantic annotation and disambiguation.The MWE lexicon does not provide labels for id-iomatic vs. compositional expressions, so this in-formation will have to be added during the anno-tation task.
Identifying idiomatic MWEs is not asimple task.
For clear cases of idiomatic units, theglobal meaning can not be recovered by the sum ofthe individual meanings of the elements that com-pose the expression.In other cases, only part of the MWE has an id-iomatic meaning, while one or more of the ele-ments are used in their literal meaning (e.g sau?dede ferro ?iron health?).
Deciding if one of the ele-ments of the MWE is literal or not depends in factof our definition of literal: if we consider it to bethe first prototypical meaning of a word, this veryrestrictive definition will trigger us to label a largenumber of MWEs as idiomatic.
Other MWEs arecompositional but receive an additional meaning,like carta?o vermelho in football, which is literallya red card but has an additional meaning of pun-ishment.We want to cover these different cases in our an-notation, and to establish a typology that takes intoaccount morpho-syntactic and semantic aspects ofthe MWE: its functional part-of-speech (PoS) cat-egory, the PoS categories of its internal elements,its fixed or semi-fixed nature, its global or partialidiomatic property and motivation, and possibleadditional meanings.4.2 Division by syntactic categoryWhen studying the MWE lexicon, we noticed dif-ferent properties of MWEs according to their syn-tactic patterns.
Consequently, we propose to di-vide our annotation guidelines according to eachsyntactic pattern and to establish different proper-ties that enables us to distinguish literal from id-iomatic usage.
At the sentence level, MWEs suchas proverbs or aphorisms (e.g.
a?gua mole em pe-dra dura tanto bate ate?
que fura lit.
?water in hardrock beats so long that it finally breaks?)
have spe-cific properties: they do not accept any possiblesyntactic changes like passivization or relativiza-tion, they do not accept any inflectional variation,the only possible change is lexical (when speakerssubstitute one or more elements, like we will dis-cuss in section 4.4).
However fixed, the meaningof this example is clearly motivated and composi-tional in the sense that it is recovered by the mean-ing of the individual elements.
On the contrary,MWEs which are verb phrases will admit muchmore morpho-syntactic variation.
Moreover, nounphrases raise specific issues: the most syntacti-cally fixed units will be very close or identical tocompound nouns.
For example, the meaning ofthe prepositional modifier of the noun can be lit-eral but the overall expression will still be used asa compound and will denote a very specific entity,frequently from domain-specific languages (pro-jecto de lei ?project of legislation?, contrato decompra e venda ?sell contract?).
Moreover, theprepositional and adjectival modifiers of the nounwill express many different semantic relationships(part of, made of, used for) which interact with themeaning (literal or idiomatic) of the noun (Calzo-lari et al, 2002).
Establishing specific guidelinesfor these different types of MWEs will enable amore accurate annotation.
To decide upon the dif-ficult cases of idiomatic and non-idiomatic usage,we plan to use the intuitions of different annota-tors.4.3 Linking to MWE lexiconWe will annotate each encountered MWE in thecorpus with a link to the MWE-entry in the lexi-con, instead of labelling each MWE with its typol-ogy.
This way we link each MWE to its canonicalform and other additional information.
Moreover,we can easily gather all occurrences of one par-ticular canonical MWE and check its variation inthe corpus.
It will also allow us to work with a153more detailed typology and will give us the possi-bility to revise it during the annotation process.
Itmight be difficult to establish beforehand very pre-cise guidelines that will apply to all the MWEs andeven to all the MWEs of a specific subtype.
Of-ten, guidelines are constantly in need of revision aswe encounter slightly different contexts who chal-lenges decisions previously taken.The corpus annotation will enable us to extendthe information in the MWE lexicon with typol-ogy labels regarding the whole expression (func-tion, idiomatic meaning) but also regarding indi-vidual words of the expression as to whether theyare obligatory or not.We plan to add a meaning to idiomatic expres-sions using a dictionary.
We expect that MWEswill be unambiguous: they have the same meaningeach time they are used.
In some cases, the syn-onym or paraphrase proposed for the MWE mightnot be able to replace the MWE in the corpuscontext.
For example, the MWE a`s ma?os cheiasmeans em grande quantidade ?in large quantity?,but this meaning can not always replace the MWEin context.The annotation process of fully fixed expres-sions could be retrieved automatically.
For thevariable expressions we will combine automaticretrieval with manual validation, Here the auto-matic retrieval step will aim for a high recall andselect all sentences that contain the lemmas ofthe MWE.
Without doubt our corpus will containmany MWEs that are not yet listed in the MWElexicon.
Therefore each sentence will need to bechecked manually for MWEs.
We can create thelinks between the lexicon and MWEs in the cor-pus automatically, but again, as not all MWEs willoccur in the lexicon, we will need to do a manualvalidation of the automatic labelling and also addnewly discovered MWEs to the lexicon.4.4 MWE VariationCorpus analysis clearly shows that MWEs havedifferent types of internal variation.
FollowingMoon (1998), we will also assume that, in most ofthe cases, these expressions ?have fixed or canon-ical forms and that variations are to some extentderivative or deviant?.
The canonical forms of(variable) expressions are listed in the MWE lex-icon.
Mapping MWE occurrences in the corpusto their canonical form can be a hard task depend-ing on the flexibility of the MWE.
In the next partwe discuss our proposal how to handle the anno-tation of several types of variation in MWEs: lex-ical, syntactic and structural variation, lexical in-sertions and truncation of MWEs.4.4.1 Lexical diversityMWEs have a wide range of lexical variation andit can apply to any type of grammatical category,although we do notice that verb variation is thecommonest type.
Studying the lexicon showedus that there is a group of cases in which a wordin a MWE can only be replaced by another wordfrom a very limited set (usually not larger than 10words) of synonyms or antonyms.
For these casesthis set is already recorded in the MWE lexicon.We mark these variable words as: ?obligatory partsof the MWE and member of a specified list?.
In 1we show an example: the canonical form followedby a sentence containing this MWE and the En-glish translations.Many MWEs also contain parts that are almostlexically free or only restricted to a semantic classsuch as person or named entity.
These elementsare represented in the MWE lexicon with a pro-noun (e.g.
algue?m, algum (?someone?, ?some-thing?))
or the tag NOUN (with possible gen-der/number restrictions) when a pronoun cannotsubstitute the free part.
When marking up theseelements in the corpus, we will label them witha reference to the pronoun used in the canonicalform (example 2).
(1) dizer/ sair da boca para fora(to say / to get out from the mouth outside)Arrependeu-se com o que lhe saiu da bocapara fora?She regretted her slip of the tongue?
(2) estar nas ma?os de ALGUE?MA nossa vida esta?
nas ma?os de Deus?Our life is in the hands of God?MWEs are not always contiguous: it is frequentto encounter insertion of lexical elements whichdo not belong to the canonical form of the MWE.Often, the function of the inserted elements is ad-verbial, quantificational or emphatic.
Or the MWEoccurs in a negative context, by the insertion of theadverb na?o.
Such inserted elements that are notpart of the MWE are not labelled.
This is the caseof the quantifier muitas in (3), which is not partof the canonical form of the MWE dar voltas a`cabec?a ?to think?.154(3) Dei muitas voltas a` cabec?a para encontraruma soluc?a?o.
?I?ve been thinking a lot to find a solution.
?Another type of MWE variation is truncation:only a part of the full expression is lexically re-alized.
This phenomenon usually occurs withproverbs and sayings.
For example in 4 the brack-eted part was not realized in the sentence, but itis part of the canonical form in the MWE lexicon.When marking up such truncated expressions wedo not label explicitly this phenomenon, we justmark up the occurring part with a reference link toMWEs in the lexicon.
(4) mais vale um pa?ssaro na ma?o (do que dois avoar)?bird in the hand is worth (two in the bush)?4.4.2 Syntactic variationAn obvious form of syntactic variation is inflec-tion of verbs and nouns.
Since Portuguese isa highly inflectional language, practically all theverbs that occur in MWEs inflect, except for somefixed sayings.
Also shifting from active to passivevoice leads to syntactic variation.
We do not labelauxiliary verbs as part of the MWE.Several MWEs that have a free part such as ex-ample 2 do not only exhibit lexical variation butalso syntactic variation: pronominalization (estarnas ma?os dele) or with a possessive form (estarnas suas ma?os).
In such cases we will mark uppossessives as part of the MWE but give them anadditional label to signal that they are optional el-ements.
However, possessives are not always op-tional, sometimes it is an obligatory part of thecanonical form and we will annotate it normally(e.g.
o lea?o mostra a sua rac?a.
?the lion showswhat he?s made off?
).Also permutations of the MWE can occur(ex.5).
We do not signal this phenomenon in ourannotation as this can easily be detected whencomparing to the canonical form.
(5) estar de ma?os e pe?s atados / estar de pe?s ema?os atados?to be tied hand and foot/ foot and hand?4.4.3 Structural variationTrue idioms are both semantically and syntacti-cally fixed.
However, language use is creative andcan lead to MWEs that only partly match the ?real?MWE as listed in the MWE lexicon.
For thesecases we mark up the different part with an extralabel to clarify which part exactly varies.
For ex-ample 6.
(6) no poupar e?
que esta?
o ganhoin the saving is the profitno esperar / provar / comparar e?
que esta?o ganhoin waiting / proving / comparing is the profit(7) ja?
dei voltas e voltas a` cabec?a?thoughs went on and on in my mind?
(8) ALGO e?
a ma?e de todas NOUN-PL?something is the mother of all x?a educac?a?o e?
a ma?e de todas as civilizac?o?esa liberdade e?
a ma?e de todas as virtudes?education is the mother of all civilizations?
?freedom is the mother of all virtues?Another interesting case is shown in example 7 inwich a part of the MWE is duplicated for empha-sis.
This should be treated differently than the ex-ample in 3.
In these cases we will label the du-plicated part as ?part of the MWE but optional?
(similar to possessives).There are cases in which part of the MWE mayvary without any apparent limits, while the otherpart remains fixed.
An example can be found in 8.These are actually just an extension of ones we al-ready discussed (see example 2) and we treat themin the same matter.5 ConclusionIn sum, we propose to split the annotation ofMWEs to develop separate annotation guidelinesfor the grammatical categories, as we have ob-served that e.g.
nominal MWEs behave differ-ently than verbal MWEs.
Each MWE in the run-ning text will be linked to its canonical form in thelexicon.
The lexicon itself will be enhanced withadditional information such as typology informa-tion and MWE meaning.
Special elements of theMWE such as optional or variable parts will be ex-plicitly marked as such both in the lexicon and inthe annotation of the MWE in the corpus.
We areconvinced that the implementation of our proposalwill lead to a rich new resource that can help usstudy the behavior of MWE in more depth.
Wealso plan to use this resource for the developmentand evaluation of automatic MWE identificationsystems.155ReferencesS.
Antunes, M. F. Bacelar do Nascimento, J. M. Caster-leiro, A. Mendes, L. Pereira, and T. Sa?.
2006.
A lex-ical database of portuguese multiword expressions.In LNAI, volume 3960, pages 238?243.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, (PROPOR 2006).M.
F. Bacelar do Nascimento, A. Mendes, and S. An-tunes, 2006.
Spoken Language Corpus and Linguis-tic Informatics, chapter Typologies of MultiWordExpressions Revisited: A Corpus-driven Approach,pages 227?244.
Coll.
Usage-Based Linguistic Infor-matics, vol.V.
John Benjamins.T.
Baldwin and S. Nam Kim.
2010.
Multiword ex-pressions.
In Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J. Damerau,editors, Handbook of Natural Language Process-ing, Second Edition.
CRC Press, Taylor and FrancisGroup, Boca Raton, FL.
ISBN 978-1420085921.F.
Barreto, A. Branco, E. Ferreira, A. Mendes, M. F. P.Bacelar do Nascimento, F. Nunes, and J. Silva.2006.
Open resources and tools for the shallow pro-cessing of portuguese.
In Proceedings of the 5th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC2006), Genoa, Italy.A.
Bo?hmova?, S.
Cinkova?, and E. Hajic?ova?.
2005.
AManual for Tectogrammatical Layer Annotation ofthe Prague Dependency Treebank (English transla-tion).
Technical report, U?FAL MFF UK, Prague,Czech Republic.N.
Calzolari, C. Fillmore, R. Grishman, N. Ide,A.
Lenci, C. MacLeod, and A. Zampolli.
2002.Towards best practice for multiword expressions incomputational lexicon.
In Proceedings of the ThirdInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC?2002), pages 1934?1940,Las Palmas, Spain.K.W.
Church and P. Hanks.
1990.
Word associationnorms, mutual information, and lexicography.
Com-putational Linguistics, 16(1):22?29.C.
Fellbaum, A. Geyken, A. Herold, F. Koerner, andG.
Neumann.
2006.
Corpus-based studies of ger-man idioms and light verbs.
International Journalof Lexicography, 19(4):349?360.A.
Mendes, M. F. Bacelar do Nascimento, S. Antunes,and L. Pereira.
2006.
COMBINA-PT: a largecorpus-extracted and hand-checked lexical databaseof portuguese multiword expressions.
In Proceed-ings of LREC 2006, pages 1900?1905, Genoa, Italy.R.
Moon.
1998.
Fixed expressions and idioms in en-glish: A corpus-based approach.
In Oxford Studiesin Lexicography and Lexicology.
Clarendon Press,Oxford.I.
Sag, T. Baldwin, F. Bond, A. Copestake, andD.
Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword Expressions: APain in the Neck for NLP.
In Proceedings ofCICLING-2002.C.
Sporleder and L. Li.
2009.
Unsupervised recog-nition of literal and non-literal use of idiomatic ex-pressions.
In Proceedings of the 12th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the ACL (EACL 2009),pages 754?762, Athens, Greece, March.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.156
