Mining Large-scale Parallel Corpora from Multilingual Patents:An English-Chinese example and its application to SMTBin Lu?, Benjamin K.
Tsou?
?, Tao Jiang?, Oi Yee Kwong?, and Jingbo Zhu?
?Department of Chinese, Translation & Linguistics, City University of Hong Kong?Research Centre on Linguistics and Language Information Sciences,Hong Kong Institute of Education?ChiLin Star Corp., Southern Software Park, Zhuhai, China?Natural Language Processing Lab, Northeastern University, Shenyang, China{lubin2010, rlbtsou, jiangtaoster}@gmail.com,rlolivia@cityu.edu.hk, zhujingbo@mail.neu.edu.cnAbstractIn this paper, we demonstrate how tomine large-scale parallel corpora withmultilingual patents, which have notbeen thoroughly explored before.
Weshow how a large-scale English-Chineseparallel corpus containing over 14million sentence pairs with only 1-5%wrong can be mined from a large amountof English-Chinese bilingual patents.
Toour knowledge, this is the largest singleparallel corpus in terms of sentence pairs.Moreover, we estimate the potential formining multilingual parallel corporainvolving English, Chinese, Japanese,Korean, German, etc., which would tosome extent reduce the parallel dataacquisition bottleneck in multilingualinformation processing.1 IntroductionMultilingual data are critical resources forbuilding many applications, such as machinetranslation (MT) and cross-lingual informationretrieval.
Many parallel corpora have been built,such as the Canadian Hansards (Gale andChurch, 1991), the Europarl corpus (Koehn,2005), the Arabic-English and English-Chineseparallel corpora used in the NIST Open MTEvaluation.However, few parallel corpora exist for manylanguage pairs, such as Chinese-Japanese,Japanese-Korean, Chinese- French orJapanese-German.
Even for language pairs withseveral parallel corpora, such as Chinese-Englishand Arabic-English, the size of parallel corporais still a major limitation for SMT systems toachieve higher performance.In this paper, we present a way which could, tosome extent, reduce the parallel data acquisitionbottleneck in multilingual language processing.Based on multilingual patents, we show how anenlarged English-Chinese parallel corpuscontaining over 14 million high-quality sentencepairs can be mined from a large number ofcomparable patents harvested from the Web.
Toour knowledge, this is the largest single parallelcorpus in terms of parallel sentences.
Some SMTexperiments are also reported.
Moreover, weinvestigate the potential to get large-scaleparallel corpora for languages beyond theCanadian Hansards, Europarl and UN news usedin NIST MT Evaluation by estimating thequantity of multilingual patents involvingEnglish, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, German,etc.Related work is introduced in Section 2.Patents, PCT patents, multilingual patents aredescribed in Section 3.
Then an English-Chineseparallel corpus, its mining process andapplication to SMT are introduced in Section 4,followed by the quantity estimation ofmultilingual patents involving other languagepairs in Section 5.
We discuss the results inSection 6, and conclude in Section 7.2 Related WorkParallel sentences could be extracted fromparallel documents or comparable corpora.Different approaches have been proposed toalign sentences in parallel documents consistingof the same content in different languages basedon the following information: a) the sentencelength in bilingual sentences (Brown et al 1991;Gale and Church, 1991); b) lexical informationin bilingual dictionaries (Ma, 2006); c) statisticaltranslation model (Chen, 1993), or the compositeof more than one approach (Simard andPlamondon, 1998; Moore, 2002).To overcome the lack of parallel documents,comparable corpora are also used to mineparallel sentences, which raises furtherchallenges since the bilingual contents are notstrictly parallel.
For instance, Zhao and Vogel(2002) investigated the mining of parallelsentences for Web bilingual news.
Munteanu andMarcu (2005) presented a method fordiscovering parallel sentences in large Chinese,Arabic, and English comparable, non-parallelcorpora based on a maximum entropy classifier.Cao et al, (2007) and Lin et al, (2008) proposedtwo different methods utilizing the parenthesispattern to extract term translations from bilingualweb pages.
Jiang et al (2009) presented anadaptive pattern-based method which producedChinese-English bilingual sentences and termswith over 80% accuracy.Only a few papers were found on the relatedwork in the patent domain.
Higuchi et al (2001)used the titles and abstracts of 32,000Japanese-English bilingual patents to extractbilingual terms.
Utiyama and Isahara (2007)mined about 2 million parallel sentences byusing two parts in the description section ofJapanese-English comparable patents.
Lu et al(2009) derived about 160K parallel sentencesfrom Chinese-English comparable patents byaligning sentences and filtering alignments withthe combination of different quality measures.Another closely related work is theEnglish-Chinese parallel corpus (Lu et al,2010), which is largely extended by this work, inwhich both the number of patents and that ofparallel sentences are augmented by about100%, and more SMT experiments are given.Moreover, we show the potential for miningparallel corpora from multilingual patentsinvolving other languages.For statistical machine translation (SMT),tremendous strides have been made in twodecades, including Brown et al (1993), Och andNey (2004) and Chiang (2007).
For the MTevaluation, NIST (Fujii et al, 2008; 2010) hasbeen organizing open evaluations for years, andthe performance of the participants has beenimproved rapidly.3 Patents and Multilingual PatentsA patent is a legal document representing ?anofficial document granting the exclusive right tomake, use, and sell an invention for a limitedperiod?
(Collins English Dictionary1).
A patentapplication consists of different sections, and wefocus on the text, i.e.
only title, abstract, claimsand description.3.1 PCT PatentsSince the invention in a patent is only protectedin the filing countries, a patent applicant whowishes to protect his invention outside theoriginal country should file patents in othercountries, which may involve other languages.The Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) systemoffers inventors and industry an advantageousroute for obtaining patent protectioninternationally.
By filing one ?international?patent application under the PCT via the WorldIntellectually Property Organization (WIPO),protection of an invention can be soughtsimultaneously (i.e.
the priority date) in each of alarge number of countries.The number of PCT international applications1 Retrieved March 2010, fromhttp://www.collinslanguage.com/filed is more than 1.7 million 2 .
A PCTinternational application may be filed in anylanguage accepted by the relevant receivingoffice, but must be published in one of theofficial publication languages (Arabic, Chinese,English, French, German, Japanese, Korean,Russian and Spanish).
Other highly usedlanguages for filing include Italian, Dutch,Finnish, Swedish, etc.
Table 1 3  shows thenumber of PCT applications for the most usedlanguages of filing and publication.Lang.
of FilingShare(%)Lang.
ofPublicationShare(%)English 895K 52.1 943K 54.9Japanese 198K 11.5 196K 11.4German 185K 10.8 184K 10.7French 55K 3.2 55K 3.2Korean 24K 1.4 3K4 0.2Chinese 24K 1.4 24K 1.4Other 336K 19.6 313K 18.2Total 1.72M 100 1.72M 100Table 1.
PCT Application Numbers for Languages ofPublication and FilingFrom Table 1, we can observe that English,Japanese and German are the top 3 languages interms of PCT applications, and English accountsfor over 50% of applications in terms oflanguage of both publication and filing.3.2 Multilingual PatentsA PCT application does not necessarily mean amultilingual patent.
An applicant who hasdecided to proceed further with his PCTinternational application must fulfill therequirements for entry into the PCT nationalphase at the patent offices of countries where heseeks protection.
For example, a Chinesecompany may first file a Chinese patent in China2 Retrieved Apr., 2010 fromhttp://www.wipo.int/pctdb/en/.
The data below involvingPCT patents comes from the website of WIPO.3 The data in this and other tables in the following sectionsinvolving PCT patents comes from the website of WIPO.4  Korean just became one of the official publicationlanguages for the PCT system since 2009, and thus thenumber of PCT patents with Korean as language ofpublication is small.patent office and then file its internationalapplication also in Chinese under the PCT.
Lateron, it may have the patent translated into Englishand file it in USA patent office, which means thepatent becomes bilingual.
If the applicantcontinues to file it in Japan with Japanese, itwould be trilingual.
Even more, it would bequadrilingual or involve more languages when itis filed in other countries with more languages.Such multilingual patents are consideredcomparable (or noisy parallel) because they arenot parallel in the strict sense but still closelyrelated in terms of information conveyed(Higuchi et al, 2001; Lu et al, 2009).4 A Large English-Chinese ParallelCorpus Mined from Bilingual PatentsIn this section, we introduce the English-Chinesebilingual patents harvested from the Web and themethod to mine parallel sentences from them.SMT experiments on the final parallel corpus arealso described.4.1 Harvesting English-Chinese BilingualPatentsThe official patent office in China is the StateIntellectual Property Office (SIPO).
In early2009,  by searching on its website, we foundabout 200K Chinese patents previously filed asPCT applications in English and crawled theirbibliographical data, titles, abstracts and themajor claim from the Web, and then other claimsand descriptions were also added.
Since somecontents are in the image format, the imageswere OCRed and the texts recognized weremanually verified.All PCT patent applications are filed throughWIPO.
With the Chinese patents mentionedabove, the corresponding English patents weresearched from the website of WIPO by the PCTpublication numbers to obtain relevant sectionsof the English PCT applications, includingbibliographical data, title, abstract, claims anddescription.
About 80% (160K) out of theChinese patents found their correspondingEnglish ones.
Some contents of the Englishpatents were OCRed by WIPO.We automatically split the patents intoindividual sections according to the respectivetags inside the patents, and segmented eachsection sentences according to punctuations.
Thestatistics of each section for Chinese andEnglish patents are shown in Table 2.Chinese EnglishSections#Char #Sent #Word #SentTitle 2.7M 157K 1.6M 157KAbstract 33M 596K 20M 784KClaim 367M 6.8M 217M 7.4MDesc.
2,467M 48.8M 1,353M 54.0MTotal 2,870M 56.2M 1,591M 62.3MTable 2.
Statistics of Comparable Patents4.2 Mining Parallel Sentences fromBilingual PatentsThe sentences in each section of Chinese patentswere aligned with those in the correspondingsection of the corresponding English patents tofind parallel sentences after the Chinesesentences were segmented into words.Since the comparable patents are not strictlyparallel, the individual alignment methodsmentioned in Section 2 would be not effective: 1)the length-based method is not accurate since itdoes not consider content similarity; 2) thebilingual dictionary-based method cannot dealwith new technical terms in the patents; 3) thetranslation model-based method would needtraining data to get a translation model.
Thus, inthis study we combine these three methods tomine high-quality parallel sentences fromcomparable patents.We first use a bilingual dictionary topreliminarily align the sentences in each sectionof the comparable patents.
The dictionary-basedsimilarity score dP  of a sentence pair iscomputed based on a bilingual dictionary asfollows (Utiyama and Isahara, 2003):2/??
)deg()deg(),(),(ceSw Sw ecececd llwwwwSSp cc ee+=?
??
?
?where cw  and ew  are respectively theword types in Chinese sentence cS  andEnglish sentence eS ; cl  and el  respectivelydenote the lengths of cS  and eS  in terms ofthe number of words; and ),( ec ww?
= 1 ifcw  and ew  is a translation pair in thebilingual dictionary or are the same string,otherwise 0; and?
?=ee Swecc www ),()deg( ??
?=ce Swece www ),()deg( ?
.For the bilingual dictionary, we combine threeones: namely, LDC_CE_DIC2.0 5  constructedby LDC, bilingual terms in HowNet and thebilingual lexicon in Champollion (Ma, 2006).We then remove sentence pairs using lengthfiltering and ratio filtering: 1) for length filtering,if a sentence pair has more than 100 words in theEnglish sentence or more than 333 characters inthe Chinese one, it is removed; 2) for length ratiofiltering, we discard the sentence pairs withChinese-English length ratio outside the range of0.8 to 1.8.
The parameters here are setempirically.We further filter the parallel sentencecandidates by learning an IBM Model-1 on theremaining aligned sentences and compute thetranslation similarity score tP  of sentencepairs by combining the translation probabilityvalue of both directions (i.e.
Chinese->Englishand English->Chinese) based on the trainedIBM-1 model (Moore, 2002; Chen, 2003; Lu etal, 2009).
It is computed as follows:ececceect ll)S(SPlog)S(SPlogSSp++=)|()|(),(where )SS(P ce | denotes the probabilitythat a translator will produce eS  in Englishwhen presented with cS  in Chinese, and viceversa for )|(S ec SP .
Sentence pairs with5 http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/Chinese/LDC_ch.htmsimilarity score tP  lower than a predefinedthreshold are filtered out as wrong alignedsentences.Table 3 shows the sentence numbers and thepercentages of sentences kept in each step abovewith respect to all sentence pairs.
In the first rowof Table 3, 1.DICT denotes the first step of usingthe bilingual dictionary to align sentences; 2.
FLdenotes the length and ratio filtering; 3.
TMrefers to the third and final step of usingtranslation models to filter sentence pairs.1.
DICT 2.FL 3.
TM (final)Abstr.
503K 352K  (70%)166K(33%)Claims 6.0M 4.3M (72.1%)2.0M(33.4%)Desc.
38.6M 26.8M (69.4%)12.1M(31.3%)Total6 45.1M 31.5M (69.8%)14.3M(31.7%)Table 3.
Numbers of Sentence PairsBoth the 31.5M parallel sentences after thesecond step FL and the final 14.3M after the thirdstep TM are manually evaluated by randomlysampling 100 sentence pairs for each section.The evaluation metric follows the one in Lu et al(2009), which classifies each sentence pair intoCorrect, Partially Correct or Wrong.
The resultsof manual evaluation are shown in Table 4.Section Correct Partially Correct WrongAbstr.
85% 7% 8%Claims 83% 10% 7% 2.
FLDesc.
69% 15% 15%Abstr.
97% 2% 1%Claims 92% 3% 5% 3.
TM  (final)Desc.
89% 8% 3%Table 4.
Manual Evaluation of the CorpusFrom Table 4, we can see that: 1) In the finalcorpus, the percentages of correct parallelsentences are quite high, and the wrongpercentages are no higher than 5%; 2) Without6 Here the total number does not include the number oftitles, which are directly treated as parallel.the final step of TM, the accuracies of 31.5Msentence pairs are between 69%-85%, and thepercentages of wrong pairs are between7%-15%; 3) The abstract section shows thehighest correct percentage, while the descriptionsection shows the lowest.Thus, we could conclude that the mined 14Mparallel sentences are of high quality with only1%-5% wrong pairs, and our combination ofbilingual dictionaries and translation models formining parallel sentences are quite effective.4.3 Chinese-English Statistical MachineTranslationA Chinese-English SMT system is setup usingMoses (Koehn, 2007).
We train models  basedon different numbers of parallel sentences minedabove.
The test set contains 548 sentence pairswhich are randomly selected and different fromthe training data.
The sizes of the training dataand BLEU scores for the models are shown inTable 5.System BLEU (%) #Sentence Pairs for trainingModel-A 17.94 300KModel-B 19.96 750KModel-C 20.09 1.5MModel-D 20.98 3MModel-E 22.60 6MTable 5.
SMT Experimental ResultsFrom Table 5, we can see that the BLEUscores are improving steadily when the trainingdata increases.
When the training data isenlarged by 20 times from 300K to 6M, theBLEU score increases to 22.60 from 17.94,which is quite a significant improvement.
Weshow the translations of one Chinese samplesentence in Table 6 below.CNSent.??
??
??
???
??
?
?
??
??
?Ref.the main shaft of the electric motorextends into the working cavity of thecompressor shell ,Model-A the motor main shaft into the compressor the chamberModel-B motor shaft into the compressor housing .
the working chamberModel-C motor shaft into the compressor housing .
the working chamberModel-Dmotor spindle extends into thecompressor housing .
the workingchamberModel-E motor spindle extends into the working chamber of the compressor housing ,Table 6.
Translations of One Chinese SentenceFrom Table 6, we can see the translationsgiven by Model-A to Model-C are lack of themain verb, the one given by Model-D has anordering problem for the head noun and themodifier, and the one given by Model-E seemsbetter than the others and its content is alreadyquite similar to the reference despite the lexicaldifference.5 Multilingual Corpora for MoreLanguagesIn this section, we describe the potential ofbuilding large-scale parallel corpora for morelanguages, especially Asian languages by usingthe 1.7 million PCT patent applications and theirnational correspondents.
By using PCTapplications as the pivot, we can buildmultilingual parallel corpora from multilingualpatents, which would greatly enlarge paralleldata we could obtain.The patent applications filed in one countryshould be in the official language(s) of thecountry, e.g.
the applications filed in Chinashould be in Chinese, those in Japan be inJapanese, and so on.
In Table 7, the secondcolumn shows the total numbers of patentapplications in different countries which werepreviously filed as PCT ones; and the thirdcolumn shows the total numbers of applicationsin different countries, which were previouslyfiled as PCT ones with English as language ofpublication.National PhaseCountry7 ALLEnglish as Lang.of Publication7 For the national phase of the PCT System, the statisticsare based on data supplied to WIPO by national andJapan 424K 269KChina 307K 188KGermany 32K 10KR.
Korea 236K 134KChina & Japan 189K 130KChina & R. Korea 154K 91KJapan & R. Korea 158K 103KChina & Japan& R. Korea 106K 73KTable 7.
Estimated Numbers of MultilingualPatentsThe number of the Chinese-English bilingualpatents (CE) in Table 7 is about 188K, which isconsistent with the number of 160K found inSection 4.1 since the latter contains only theapplications up to early 2009.
Based on Table 7,we estimate below the rough sizes of bilingualcorpora, trilingual corpora, and evenquadrilingual corpora for different languages.1) Bilingual Corpora with English as onelanguageCompared to CE (188K), theJapanese-English bilingual corpus (269K) couldbe 50% larger in terms of bilingual patents, theKorean-English one (134K) could be about 30%smaller, and the German-English one (10K)would be much smaller.2) Bilingual Corpora for Asian LanguagesThe Japanese-Chinese bilingual corpus(189K) could be comparable to CE (188K) interms of bilingual applications, the Chinese-Korean one (154K) could be about 20% smaller,and the Japanese-Korean one (158K) is quitesimilar to the Chinese-Korean one.3)  Trilingual CorporaIn addition to bilingual corpora, we can alsobuild trilingual corpora from trilingual patents.
Itis quite interesting to note that the trilingualcorpora  could be quite large even compared tothe bilingual corpora.The trilingual corpora for Chinese, Japaneseand English (130K) could be only 30% smallerthan CE in terms of patents.
The trilingual corpusregional patent Offices, received at WIPO often 6 months ormore after the end of the year concerned, i.e.
the numbersare not up-to-date .for Chinese, Korean and English (91K) and thatfor Japanese, Korean and English (103K) arealso quite large.
The number of the trilingualpatents for the Asian languages of Chinese,Japanese and Korean (106K) is about 54% ofthat of CE.4) Quadrilingual CorporaThe number of the quadrilingual patents forChinese, Japanese, Korean and English (73K) isabout 38% of that of CE.
From these figures, wecould say that a large proportion of the PCTapplications published in English later have beenfiled in all the three Asian countries: China,Japan, and R. Korea.6 DiscussionThe websites from which the Chinese andEnglish patents were downloaded were quiteslow to access, and were occasionally downduring access.
To avoid too much workload forthe websites, the downloading speed had beenlimited.
Some large patents would cost muchtime for the websites to respond and had bespecifically handled.
It took considerable effortsto obtain these comparable patents.In addition our English-Chinese corpus minedin this study is at least one order of magnitudelarger, we give some other differences betweenours and those introduced in Section 2 (Higuchiet al, 2001; Utiyama and Isahara, 2007; Lu et al2009)1) Their bilingual patents were identified bythe priority information in the US patents, andcould not be easily extended to language pairswithout English; while our method using PCTapplications as the pivot could be easilyextended to other language pairs as illustrated inSection 5.2) The translation process is different: theirpatents were filed in USA Patent Office inEnglish by translating from Japanese or Chinese,while our patents were first filed in English as aPCT application, and later translated intoChinese.
The different translation processes mayhave different characteristics.Since the PCT and multilingual patentapplications increase rapidly in recent years asdiscussed in Section 3, we could expect moremultilingual patents to enlarge the large-scaleparallel corpora with the new applications andkeep them up-to-date with new technical terms.On the other hand, patents are usually translatedby patent agents or professionals, we couldexpect high quality translations frommultilingual patents.
We have been planning tobuild trilingual and quadrilingual corpora frommultilingual patents.One possible limitation of patent corpora isthat the sentences are all from technical domainsand written in formal style, and thus it isinteresting to know if the parallel sentencescould improve the performance of SMT systemson NIST MT evaluation corpus containing newssentences and web sentences.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we show how a large high-qualityEnglish-Chinese parallel corpus can be minedfrom a large amount of comparable patentsharvested from the Web, which is the largestsingle parallel corpus in terms of the  number ofparallel sentences.
Some sampled parallelsentences are available athttp://www.livac.org/smt/parpat.html, and moreparallel sentences would be publicly available tothe research community.With 1.7 million PCT patent applications andtheir corresponding national ones, there areconsiderable potentials of constructinglarge-scale high-quality parallel corpora forlanguages.
We give an estimation on the sizes ofmultilingual parallel corpora which could beobtained from multilingual patents involvingEnglish, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, German,etc., which would to some extent reduce theparallel data acquisition bottleneck inmultilingual information processing.AcknowledgementsWe wish to thank Mr. Long Jiang fromMicrosoft Research Asia and anonymousreviewers for their valuable comments.ReferencesBrown, Peter F., Jennifer C. Lai, and Robert L.Mercer.
1991.
Aligning sentences in parallelcorpora.
In Proceedings of ACL.
pp.169-176.Brown, Peter F., Stephen A. Della Pietra, Vincent J.Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer.
1993.Mathematics of statistical machine translation:Parameter estimation.
Computational Linguistics,19(2), 263-311.Cao, Guihong, Jianfeng Gao and Jianyun Nie.
2007.A System to Mine Large-scale BilingualDictionaries from  Monolingual Web Pages.
InProceedings of MT Summit.
pp.
57-64.Chen, Stanley F. 1993.
Aligning sentences inbilingual corpora using lexical information.
InProceedings of ACL.
pp.
9-16.Chiang, David.
2007.
Hierarchical phrase-basedtranslation.
Computational Linguistics, 33(2),201?228.Fujii, Atsushi, Masao Utiyama, Mikio Yamamoto,and Takehito Utsuro.
2008.
Overview of the patenttranslation task at the NTCIR-7 workshop.
InProceedings of the NTCIR-7 Workshop.
pp.389-400.
Tokyo, Japan.Fujii, Atsushi, Masao Utiyama, Mikio Yamamoto,Takehito Utsuro, Terumasa Ehara, HiroshiEchizen-ya and Sayori Shimohata.
2010.Overview of the patent translation task at theNTCIR-8 workshop.
In Proceedings of theNTCIR-8 Workshop.
Tokyo, Japan.Gale, William A., and Kenneth W. Church.
1991.
Aprogram for aligning sentences in bilingualcorpora.
In Proceedings of ACL.
pp.79-85.Higuchi, Shigeto, Masatoshi Fukui, Atsushi Fujii, andTetsuya Ishikawa.
PRIME: A System forMulti-lingual Patent Retrieval.
In Proceedings ofMT Summit VIII, pp.163-167, 2001.Koehn, Philipp.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus forstatistical machine translation.
In Proceedings ofMT Summit X.Koehn, Philipp, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, et al 2007.
Moses: Open sourcetoolkit for statistical machine translation.
InProceedings of ACL Demo Session.
pp.
177-180.Lin, Dekang, Shaojun Zhao, Benjamin V. Durme andMarius Pasca.
2008.
Mining ParentheticalTranslations from the Web by Word Alignment.
InProceedings of ACL-08.
pp.
994-1002.Jiang, Long, Shiquan Yang, Ming Zhou, Xiaohua Liu,and Qingsheng Zhu.
2009.
Mining Bilingual Datafrom the Web with Adaptively Learnt Patterns.
InProceedings of ACL-IJCNLP.
pp.
870-878.Lu, Bin, Benjamin K. Tsou, Jingbo Zhu, Tao Jiang,and Olivia Y. Kwong.
2009.
The Construction ofan English-Chinese Patent Parallel Corpus.
MTSummit XII 3rd Workshop on Patent Translation.Lu, Bin, Tao Jiang, Kapo Chow and Benjamin K.Tsou.
2010.
Building a Large English-ChineseParallel Corpus from Comparable Patents and itsExperimental Application to SMT.
LRECWorkshop on Building and Using ComparableCorpora.
Malta.
May, 2010.Ma, Xiaoyi.
2006.
Champollion: A Robust ParallelText Sentence Aligner.
In Proceedings of the 5thInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC).
Genova, Italy.Moore, Robert C. 2002.
Fast and Accurate SentenceAlignment of Bilingual Corpora.
In Proceedings ofAMTA.
pp.135-144.Munteanu, Dragos S., and Daniel Marcu.
2005.Improving Machine Translation Performance byExploiting Non-parallel Corpora.
ComputationalLinguistics, 31(4), 477?504.Och, Franz J., and Hermann Ney.
2004.
TheAlignment Template Approach to MachineTranslation.
Computational Linguistics, 30(4),417-449.Simard, Michel, and Pierre Plamondon.
1998.Bilingual Sentence Alignment: BalancingRobustness and Accuracy.
Machine Translation,13(1), 59-80.Utiyama, Masao, and Hitoshi Isahara.
2007.
AJapanese-English patent parallel corpus.
InProceeding of MT Summit XI.
pp.
475?482.Zhao, Bing, and Stephen Vogel.
2002.
AdaptiveParallel Sentences Mining from Web BilingualNews Collection.
In Proceedings of Second IEEEInternational Conference on Data Mining(ICDM?02).
