Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Young Investigators Workshop on Computational Approaches to Languages of the Americas,pages 68?75, Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe emergence of the modern concept of introspection: a quantitativelinguistic analysisI.
RaskovskyDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of Buenos AiresPabello?n I, Ciudad UniversitariaBuenos Aires, C1428EGA, Argentinairaskovsky@dc.uba.arD.
Ferna?ndez SlezakDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of Buenos AiresPabello?n I, Ciudad UniversitariaBuenos Aires, C1428EGA, Argentinadfslezak@dc.uba.arC.G.
DiukDepartment of PsychologyPrinceton UniversityPrinceton, NJ 08540, USAcdiuk@princeton.eduG.A.
CecchiComputational Biology CenterT.J.
Watson IBM Research CenterYorktown Heights, NY 10598, USAgcecchi@us.ibm.comAbstractThe evolution of literary styles in the west-ern tradition has been the subject of extendedresearch that arguably has spanned centuries.In particular, previous work has conjecturedthe existence of a gradual yet persistent in-crease of the degree of self-awareness or in-trospection, i.e.
that capacity to expound onone?s own thought processes and behaviors,reflected in the chronology of the classical lit-erary texts.
This type of question has been tra-ditionally addressed by qualitative studies inphilology and literary theory.
In this paper,we describe preliminary results based on theapplication of computational linguistics tech-niques to quantitatively analyze this hypoth-esis.
We evaluate the appearance of intro-spection in texts by searching words related toit, and focus on simple studies on the Bible.This preliminary results are highly positive,indicating that it is indeed possible to statis-tically discriminate between texts based on asemantic core centered around introspection,chronologically and culturally belonging todifferent phases.
In our opinion, the rigurousextension of our analysis can provide not onlya stricter statistical measure of the evolutionof introspection, but also means to investigatesubtle differences in aesthetic styles and cog-nitive structures across cultures, authors andliterary forms.1 IntroductionThe evolution of literary styles in the western tradi-tion has been the subject of extended research thatarguably has spanned centuries.
In particular, previ-ous work has conjectured the existence of a grad-ual yet persistent increase of the degree of self-awareness or introspection, i.e.
that capacity to ex-pound on one?s own thought processes and behav-iors, reflected in the chronology of the classical lit-erary texts.
This type of question has been tradi-tionally addressed by qualitative studies in philologyand literary theory.
In this paper, we describe pre-liminary results based on the application of compu-tational linguistics techniques to quantitatively ana-lyze this hypothesis.The striking differences between the Iliad and theOddysey in the way the characters?
behaviors areattributed to divine intervention, or to the individ-ual?s volition, has been pointed out by numerousscholars (Onians, 1988; Dodds, 1951; Adkins, 1970;De Jong and Sullivan, 1994).
However, not untilthe highly influential work of Marshall McLuhan(McLuhan, 1962) and Julian Jaynes (Jaynes, 2000)was it pointed out that these changes may reflect notjust artistic or even cultural tendencies, but profoundalterations in the mental structure of those whowrote, collected and assimilated the stories.
While68McLuhan argued for a materialistic effect of the typeof medium (the linearity of written language, theholistic nature of the moving image) on the orga-nization of thoughts (linear or integrative, respec-tively), Jaynes proposed a more radical hypothe-sis: a relatively abrupt transition from a ?bicam-eral mind?, where one hemisphere produced god-like commands that the other followed blindly, tothe modern mind with its ability of self-awareness.Moreover, Jaynes boldly suggested that this transi-tion may have been accompanied by a physical pro-cess that altered the relationship between the hemi-spheres, and changed culture permanently.
Sinceits publication, The origins of consciousness in thebreakdown of the bicameral mind has been highlyinfluential inside and outside scientific quarters, aswell as a source of continuing controversy (Cavannaet al, 2007).Whether brought about by nature or nurture, how-ever, Jaynes presents compelling arguments aboutthe effects of this transition, including stylisticchanges throughout the other foundational text ofthe western world, the Bible.
Simply put, a less rad-ical version of Jaynes?
hypothesis would state that,within the judeo-greco-christian cultural tradition,there exists an ?arrow of time?
pointing to increasingintrospection.
The question we set out to answer inthe present manuscript is to what extent it is possibleto analyze, quantitatively, this hypothesis.The widespread availability of classic and modernliterary texts has paved the road to a wide variety oflinguistic studies.
Matters of literary style and struc-ture are necessarily more controversial, although therecent work of F. Moretti (Moretti, 2005) has shownthat it is indeed possible to quantify the subtle varia-tions in the structure of the novel over temporal peri-odizations and geographical locations.
In any event,given that our intention is to complete a preliminarystudy of feasibility, we focus here on capturing thetextual traces of words or lexical structures that canbe reasonably argued to reflect introspective think-ing on the part of the characters, using techniquesfrom machine learning and computational linguis-tics.2 Materials and methodsWe downloaded selected texts representative of dif-ferent ages in literature from the MIT classic textsarchive (Daniel C. Stevenson, 2010), based on refer-ences in Jaynes?
book (Jaynes, 2000).
The selectedtexts are: the Iliad and the Odyssey (approx.
1200BC to 900 BC), The Bible (approx.
1400 BC toAD 200), Lucretius?
On the Nature of Things (99BC - 55 BC), St. Augustine?s Confessions (AD 397- AD 398), Shakespear?s The Merchant of Venice(AD 1596 - AD 1598), Hamlet (approx.
AD 1600),Macbeth (AD 1603 - AD 1607) and Othello (AD1603), Cervantes?
Quixote (AD 1605 - AD 1615),Jean Austen?s Mansfield Park (AD 1814), Emma(AD 1815) and Persuasion (AD 1816) and Proust?sTime Regained (AD 1927).On this preliminary study, we focused on ex-tremely simple techniques to test our hypothesis.We have implemented a series of basic routinesto analyze the frequency of certain words relatedto introspection, selected by hand.
We used verysimple regular expressions to search over the text:think+, thought, myself, mind+, feel+and felt.
The search was conducted on 10,000-words windows starting from the beginning of thetext moving towards the end in 2,000-words steps.Also, the appearance of references to God in theBible was measured.
In this case, we looked for:lord, god and almighty; all searches done caseinsensitive.
In order to control for the possible in-crease of these selected words as a trivial conse-quence of an increase in the overall linguistic rich-ness or expressiveness of the text, we also computedthe total number of distinct words for each step.As an alternative approach, we applied a data-driven method to extract the semantic structure oftexts, namely topic modeling (Blei, 2009).
We uti-lized the implementation of the mallet package (Mc-Callum, 2002), an off-the-shelf tool, generating 100topics through 10,000 Gibbs sampling rounds.
Thetopics were then manually inspected for their seman-tic relevance to the issue at hand, i.e.
introspection.3 ResultsThe preliminary results are highly positive, indicat-ing that it is indeed possible to statistically discrim-inate between texts based on a semantic core cen-69500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 400000.010.020.030.040.050.060.07Number of distinct wordsFrequencyof introspection related wordsBibleIliadOdysseyLucretiusConfessionsQuixoteMerchantOthelloMacbethHamletEmmaPersuasionMansfield ParkTime RegainedFigure 1: Frequency of words related to introspection versus the amount of different words.
Each text is identified bya unique color; each point represents a 10,000-words window.tered around introspection, chronologically and cul-turally belonging to different phases.
In figure 1 weshow the frequency of words related to introspec-tion versus the amount of different words, for all thetexts we chose.
Each author is identified by a uniquecolor; each text is identified by an unique symbol;each point represents a 10,000-words window.
Thefrequency is calculated as count over the number ofdifferent words in the 10K windows.
To summarizethis information and provide statistical value to ouranalysis, we present in figure 2 the mean and stan-dard deviation for each of the selected texts.We clearly observe how different texts are dis-joint in the graph, both in amount of different wordsused in each window, as well as the frequency ofintrospection.
This is the case for the Iliad andthe Odyssey, confirming that our preliminary mea-sure captures the semantic differences between bothpieces.
We also observe a trend between some ofthe sections of the Bible (we will return to this be-low), to the Homeric texts, Lucretius, Cervantesand Austen, roughly following a chronological or-der.
St. Augustine?s Confessions is an exceptionof this trend, as it shows a higher frequency thanCervantes.
However, given that Confessions is con-sidered the first auto-biography work in the Westerntradition, the high value of our introspection mea-sure is to some extent a validation of its pertinence.A more noticeable exception is Shakespear?s oeuvre,that seems to consist of very differentiated clustersfor each piece.
Taken together, however, the ensem-ble average of his work seems to fall in line withthe global temporal order.
It is beyond the scope ofour manuscript to discuss the nuances of the workof The Bard, but our analytic approach may pro-vide new tools to the ongoing Shakespearean schol-arship.
Finally, our analysis seems to really breakdown for Proust, as one intuitively would expect amuch higher measure of introspection, even moreso considering that he displays significant richnessin terms of the number of distinct words in the text.This failure is clearly an indication of the limitationsof our current approach, which as it stands may onlynot be applicable to modern or contemporary litera-ture.The Bible is of particular interest for this work,as it was written in parts along a wide time interval(taking into account the Old and New Testaments).It enables us to analyze the ?arrow of time?
of in-trospection within a relatively coherent framework,even though a vast and in most cases unknown hostof writers and compilers gave this text its presentshape, and the relationship between textual linear-ity and chronological order is certainly not simple.Be it as it may, for our purposes we only requirethat this relationship be monotonic in a statisticalsense, which we assume to be the case for the Bible.In figure 3 we show the frequency of introspectionalong different periods of the Bible.
The text was di-vided into 6 pieces of the same length; purposefully,no semantic division was performed.
Introspectionincreases towards the more modern sections of the701000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 400000.0050.010.0150.020.0250.030.0350.040.0450.05Number of distinct wordsFrequencyof introspection appearanceBibleIliadOdysseyLucretiusConfessionsQuixoteMerchantOthelloMacbethHamletEmmaPersuasionMansfield ParkTime RegainedFigure 2: Frequency of words related to introspection versus the amount of different words.
Each text is identified bya unique color.
Error bars shows the standard deviation in both axis.text, confirming our initial hypothesis.
Note that thelexical richness (number of distinct words) of thelast period, that includes the New Testament, seemsto be part of the same plateau as the 3rd, 4th and 5th.Another interesting aspect is how introspection andcitations to God evolve along the lexical, pseudo-chronological order the the Bible?s test.
Figure 4shows the appearance of introspection and mentionsto God over 10,000-words windows.
We observea significant increase in introspection as the lexi-cal order moves ahead, while at the same time thereferences to God show a weaker, yet clearly dis-cernible trend to diminish.
This is precisely the an-alytic counterpart of the phenomenology on whichJaynes based his hypothesis.Another avenue of research involves developingand applying more sophisticated tools of textualanalysis, in order to capture the presence of rele-vant passages of introspection using data-driven ap-proaches.
In particular, we have done a preliminarystudy using Topic Modeling (Blei, 2009), a tech-nique that uses probabilistic models to uncover theunderlying semantic structure of a text or a collec-tion of documents.
In topic modeling, a topic isa collection of keywords that are automatically ex-tracted as highly descriptive of a document.
As de-scribed in the Methods section, we utilized the mal-let package implementation, choosing 100 topics tobe uncovered.
This package produces approximateinference and therefore different runs may yield dif-ferent results.
In each run, we observed a hand-ful of topics (between 3 and 6, approximately) thatcontained words related to introspection, such asthe mind, think and feel roots.
The followingtopic, selected as a representative from one of themallet runs, was identified based only on the pres-ence of mind, although some of the other wordsmay also be relevant for the purpose of revealing in-trospective activity (soul and desire):soul love yea desiremind hate sought lovethmeasure fair pleasant naykeepeth hungry satisfied excellentoccasion rejoicing desiredFigure 5 presents the frequency with which thistopic of interest is considered the main topic by mal-let, as a running average for every 100 lines of theBible.
A simple linear regression shows that thistopic becomes more frequent towards the end of thetext, and mirrors the results obtained with the morehand-crafted approach.
This result, while prelimi-nary (there is a good number of parameters to ex-plore in setting up topic modeling), is highly promis-ing, as topic modeling provides a link with the vastliterature of statistical semantic analysis.71900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 160000.0050.010.0150.02Number of distinct wordsFrequencyofintrospectionappearance1st piece2nd piece3rd piece4th piece5th piece6th pieceFigure 3: Frequency of words related to introspection versus the amount of different words in the Bible, divided in 6pieces of the same length.4 ConclusionsPrevious work in the evolution of literary styles inthe Western tradition has conjectured the existenceof a gradual yet persistent increase of the degree ofintrospection.
In particular, the ideas of MarshallMcLuhan and Julian Jaynes suggest the hypothesisthat these changes reflect profound and permanentalterations in the cognitive structures of the culture.We set out to investigate to what extent it is possi-ble to analyze, quantitatively, this hypothesis.
Wefocused on Homeric and Biblical texts, given theircultural preeminence, and utilized relatively simpleanalytic techniques to measure the degree of intro-spection along the texts, assuming they reflect, how-ever imperfectly, a certain chronological order.The result of measuring word frequencies ishighly positive, indicating that it is indeed possi-ble to statistically discriminate between texts basedon a semantic core centered around introspection,chronologically and culturally belonging to differentphases.
However, our analysis seems to really breakdown for Proust, as one intuitively would expect amuch higher measure of introspection.
This failureis clearly an indication of the limitations of our cur-rent approach, which as it stands may only not beapplicable to modern or contemporary literature.Our analysis on the Bible is of particular interest.It enables us to analyze the ?arrow of time?
of in-trospection within a relatively coherent framework,and the relationship between textual linearity andchronological order is certainly not simple.
Anotherinteresting aspect is how introspection and citationsto God evolve along the test, with a significant in-crease in introspection as the lexical order movesahead, while references to God show a weaker, yetclearly discernible trend to diminish.As an alternative approach, in order to capture thepresence of relevant passages of introspection us-ing a data-driven method, we applied topic model-ing.
We observed a handful of topics that containedwords related to introspection.
The analysis of theBible under this technique mirrors the results ob-tained with the more hand-crafted approach.While the analysis presented can only be consid-ered an initial step towards a systematic characteri-zation of the textual correlate of the concept of in-trospection, the simplicity of our methods and theclarity of the results support our initial hypothesis,and validate our approach.
In our opinion, the rigor-ous extension of our analysis can provide not only astricter statistical measure of the evolution of intro-spection, but also a means to investigate subtle dif-ferences in aesthetic styles and cognitive structuresacross cultures, authors and literary forms (i.e.
thenovel, cf.
(Moretti, 2005)).5 OutlookGiven the necessarily broad, integrative nature ofany approach to introspection, there is a numberof different alternatives we are currently exploringto expand our analysis, with an emphasis on inter-720 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 40000.010.020.03Introspectionappearance0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 40000.10.20.30.410K?words window numberGod?sappearanceFigure 4: Frequency of words related to introspection and God versus the 10,000-words window number.disciplinary perspectives.A first step is systematizing the routines for fil-tering, processing and analysis of the texts.
Wewill incorporate more terms related to introspec-tion captured in the structure of Wordnet, and even-tually also incorporate as part of the analysis ele-ments of the graphical structure that underlies thisdatabase (Sigman and Cecchi, 2002).
Some interest-ing developments in this area are the measures of se-mantic similarity between concepts (Budanitsky andHirst, 2006; Pedersen et al, 2004; Patwardhan et al,2003).
This measure may result useful for classify-ing the different topics acquired using topic model-ing, taking into account the similarity of the wordsrelated to introspection, as an extension to the se-mantic relationships established by Wordnet and thevarious dictionaries and thesaurii currently availableas databases.We will also incorporate the notion of conceptdrift to our topic modeling, expecting it to accountfor the temporal evolution of the use of introspec-tion.
A promising proposal for this purpose is thatof Dynamic Topic Modeling.
We are particularly in-terested in approaches that require minimal a prioriintervention; we expect that a dynamic model withan unconstrained number of topics, as opposed tothe fixed number of topics proposed in the origi-nal paper (Blei and Lafferty, 2006), may lead morenaturally to the identification of potential transitionsalong the text.
This approach is not straightforwardto implement, and may require the development ofan appropriate statistical model.Another step will be a more careful and princi-pled selection and categorization of our text corpus.While the techniques at hand enable the analysis ofmassive amounts of data, we will select our textsbased on their cultural and historical relevance in amore systematic way.
Comparing different culturesand ages results in an interesting challenge.
We arespecifically interested in the replication of the resultspresented here in the case of the aboriginal Ameri-can cultures.
The concept of introspection appearsin many classic American texts such as the PopolVuh and the Chilam Balam; however, their compila-tion by European scholars and translation to differ-ent languages may not keep the essence of the origi-nal texts.
A robust systematization of our techniquewill allow us to analyze texts in different languageseasily.
We look forward to compare the measures ofintrospection between texts in their native languagesin contrast with its appearance in their translations.Moreover, this may help with the conservation of se-730 3 6 9 12 15x 10400.040.080.120.160.2Bible line numberFrequencyoftopic of interest(running average)Figure 5: Frequency of Introspection topic as the main topic for each section of the Bible, as a running average every100 lines.lected concepts along translations of texts.
This lineof research will require the interaction with expertsin early American philology.Finally, it is important to note that the analyti-cal techniques proposed here, namely the quantifica-tion of psychological concepts embedded in the text,can be used as tools for pedagogical and psychiatricevaluation (Lombardo et al, 2007).
This will requirea consorted effort with psychologists and psychia-trists to collect and organize personal narrations bypatients, as well as the compilation of texts alreadyavailable in the literature, in particular by people suf-fering from schizophrenia and depression.In summary, we believe the results presentedhere will provide a rich source of multi-disciplinaryfollow-up and derived lines of research around sta-tistical measurements of psychological features intext, within and beyond the concept of introspection.ReferencesAdkins, A.
(1970).
From the many to the one: a study ofpersonality and views of human nature in the contextof ancient Greek society, values and beliefs.
Constable& Company Limited.Blei, D. (2009).
Text Mining: Theory and Applications(A. Srivastava and M. Sahami editors), chapter TopicModels.
Taylor and Francis.Blei, D. and Lafferty, J.
(2006).
Dynamic topic models.In ICML ?06: Proceedings of the 23rd internationalconference on Machine learning, pages 113?120, NewYork, NY, USA.
ACM.Budanitsky, A. and Hirst, G. (2006).
Evaluating wordnet-based measures of lexical semantic relatedness.
Com-putational Linguistics, 32(1):13?47.Cavanna, A., Trimble, M., Cinti, F., and Monaco, F.(2007).
The ?bicameral mind?
30 years on: a criticalreappraisal of Julian Jaynes hypothesis.
FunctionalNeurology, 22(1):11?15.Daniel C. Stevenson, W. A.
(last accessed: Feb. 27th,2010).
Mit classics.
http://classics.mit.edu/.De Jong, I. and Sullivan, J.
(1994).
Modern critical the-ory and classical literature.
Brill Academic Pub.Dodds, E. (1951).
The Greeks and the Irrational.
Berke-ley: Univ.
of California Press.Jaynes, J.
(2000).
The origin of consciousness in thebreakdown of the bicameral mind.
Mariner Books.Lombardo, M., Barnes, J., Wheelwright, S., and Baron-Cohen, S. (2007).
Self-Referential Cognition and Em-pathy in Autism.
PLoS ONE, 2(9):e883.McCallum, A.
(2002).
Mallet: A machine learning forlanguage toolkit.
http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.McLuhan, M. (1962).
The Gutenberg galaxy: The mak-ing of typographic man.
Routledge & Kegan Paul.Moretti, F. (2005).
Graphs, Maps, Trees: Abstract mod-els for a literary history.
Verso Books.74Onians, R. (1988).
The origins of European thoughtabout the body, the mind, the soul, the world, time, andfate: new interpretations of Greek, Roman and kindredevidence also of some basic Jewish and Christian be-liefs.
Cambridge University Press.Patwardhan, S., Banerjee, S., and Pedersen, T. (2003).Using measures of semantic relatedness for word sensedisambiguation.
Lecture notes in computer science,pages 241?257.Pedersen, T., Patwardhan, S., and Michelizzi, J.
(2004).Wordnet:: similarity-measuring the relatedness of con-cepts.
In Proceedings of the National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, pages 1024?1025.Sigman, M. and Cecchi, G. (2002).
Global organizationof the wordnet lexicon.
Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of Sciences, 99(3):1742.75
