Kazakh Segmentation System of Inflectional AffixesGulila.Altenbek1.Information Science and Engineering CollegesXinjiang University,Xinjiang Lab.
of Multilanguage Information Technology ,830046?P.R.
China.2?Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbingla@xju.edu.cnWANG Xiao-longInstitute of Computer Science and Technology,Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin,150001, P.R.
China.wangxl@insun.hit.edu.cnAbstractThis paper focuses on the automatic segmentationof inflectional affixes of the Kazakh Language (KL)on the basis of studying the corpus of KL.
Kazakh isan agglutinative language with word structuresformed by productive affixation of derivational andinflectional suffixes to stems.
Based on the analysisof the configuration of inflectional affixes, it firstlyconstructs the Finite-State Automation and thesegmentation of inflectional affixes.
Secondly ittargets at specially constructing the Finite-StateAutomations of nouns and verbs, which are themost changeable and complex part of speech of KL.And thirdly it adopts the methods of BidirectionalOmni-Word Segmentation and lexical analysis toachieve the goal of stemming and fine segmentationof inflectional affixes of KL.
And finally it gives anadditional account of studying the segmentation ofambiguous inflectional affixes.
The paper intendsto improve the accuracy and the quickness ofstemming the inflectional affixes of KL.1 IntroductionLexical or morphemic analysis is to turn the characterstring of natural language into ?the word string?.During the process, at first it takes ?the word?
out,, andthen conducts the morphological analysis of theinternal components of ?the word?, and finally it endsup with the tagging.
Many language processing tasks,including parsing, semantic analysis, informationretrieval, and machine translation usually require amorphological analysis of the language beforehand.As we know, Kazakh Language belongs to TurkishLanguage group of Altaic Language Family, whoseunique language features decide that we should focuson its Inflectional Morphology is inflectionallychanged.
Kazakh language is written right-to-left inthe Arabic alphabet with some modifications.This paper attaches importance to analyzing thenouns and the verbs, which have great difficulties inaffixes segmentation.
And this paper will definitelycontribute to the further study of lexical analysis ofKL.2 Related worksThere have been some related studies, such as, MartinPorter has proposed ?English Stemming Processor?
(1980), which is most widely used; TheLongest-March put forward by Kut is a type of wordSegmentation algorithm based on the TurkishLexicon(1995).Beihang University has finished itsCDWS Chinese Word Segmentation System(nan-yuan.Liang, 1987); Tsinghua University has alsocompleted its SEG Chinese Word SegmentationSystem(Da-yang Shen et al,1997); and <TheGrammatical Knowledge-base of ContemporaryChinese> edited  by Peking University was alsopublished(Shi-Wen,Yu, 2003).And the study of lexical analysis of minoritylanguages has also achieved a lot in China, Someresearches(A.Gulila and A.M i j i t?2004, K.Aykiz etal.,2006, YuSufu, 2005)  have been done in thelexical analysis of Uighur Language conductedXinjiang; the Automatic Segmentation System ofMongolian language conducted by Inner MongoliaUniversity (U.Nasun, 1997) ; And the lexical analysisof kazakh Language conducted by our project is inprogress (A.Gulila and A.Dawel,2007) and so on.There have been several main approaches oralgorithms to segment inflectional affixes, includingmaximum matching algorithm based on mechanicmatching of character strings, rules-based algorithm,statistics-based algorithm, and the combination of bothrules-based and statistics-based algorithms.3 Kazakh Morphology3.1 Kazakh MorphologyKazakh is an agglutinative language with wordstructures formed by affixes to grammatically ormeaningfully change the words.Kazakh morphology isan affixal system consisting mainly of suffixes and afew prefixes.
According to linguistic theory, the wordof the text consists of the root or the stem and theaffix.
( Milat etc.
2003, ding-jin Zhang.
2004).gWord root is the core of the whole word structure,which is the essential morpheme to convey the basiccontent of its meaning.gWord stem is a new word generated by addingvarious affixes to the root, which is also called aderivative word.
It expresses the complete and fullmeaning.gAffixes are divided into inflectional affixes andderivational affixes.
The study of derivational affixesfocuses on the derivational words, which can beformed by adding prefixes or suffixes or prefixes plussuffixes.
Meanwhile the meanings of the derivationalwords will be changed.
While the study of inflectionalaffixes pays attention to the Inflectional Morphology,which shows grammatical changes between words butdoes not change word meanings.3.2 The Analysis of Inflectional AffixesWe focus on most general morphological rules whichare common rules related to morpheme segmentation.The inflectional affixes in Kazakhh language aredivided into the following four types:1) Plural: KL has six various affixes to express theplural form of words, which usually are directly linkedto the general nouns, pronouns and numerals.2) Personal pronoun possessive: KL has six variousaffixes to express the possessive forms of personalpronouns.3) Case: KL has seven various affixes to express thedifferent cases.
So KL has seven cases.
Case endingsare applied only to the last element of a noun phrase,which are closely linked to the following verbs.4) Predicative Person: The first, second and thirdpersonal pronouns are usually followed by the wordswith additive predicative personal elements.The above-mentioned four types of inflectional affixescan be used separately or linked together.
Suffixes inKazakh are complex, especially when a stem is linkedwith many suffixes.
There are some rules we canfollow to add affixes to word roots.
See Figure 1:(Right-to-Left)Figure 1.
Rules to guide the connections of inflectionalaffixes3.3 The Finite-state Automaton model ofinflectional affixes of KLFinite-State Automata (FSA) can be used to describethe possible word forms of a language.
We havealready applied the model of FSA into the lexicalanalysis of KL.
The following figure shows a FSAmodel of inflectional changes of a noun.
See Figure 2:Figure 2.
The FSA model of inflectional changes of a noun.4 The Finite-state Transducer (FST) ofKazakh WordsAs a typical agglutinative language, Kazakh words areformed by adding various suffix to word roots.
But theKazakh language itself does not have prefixes withexception of some borrowed or loaned prefixes fromforeign words.
And there are some rules guiding theusage and connection of various suffixes.
Thus we canapply FST to establish a model for Kazakh words.
Theprocess of establishing a FST model can be dividedinto the following steps(E.G?l?en & A.E?ref.
2004):Step 1: Establish a Right-to-Left FSM.Step 2: Tag affixesStep 3: Reverse the Right-to-Left FSM, and get aNon-deterministic Finite-state Automaton (NFA)Step 4: Convert the NFA to a DeterministicFinite-state Automaton (DFA) and establish aLeft-to-Right FSM.The Kazakh words that can be added affixes tothemselves are the followings: nouns, numerals,adjectives, pronouns, verbs, adverbs and so on.Among them, nouns and verbs are the most difficultparts of speech to be segmented.
Take these two partsof speech as examples:4.1 Inflectional Affixes of NounsStep 1: Establish a Right-to-Left FSM .The four types of inflectional affixes can be added tostems under the guidance of some rules which alsodecide the FSM.
We can apply the FSM to segmentstens and we can analyze the FSM from right to left.See Figure 3:Figure 3.
Right-to-Left FSM of inflectional affixes.Step 2: Tag affixesHow to tag depends on the types of inflectionalaffixes, in which each type is given a value as itsexpressing value.
Those affixes will be stored in thedatabase as well as those expressing values.
See Table 1Table 1.
Types and Expressing Values of InflectionalAffixes of Nouns.inflectional affixesTypevalue Inflectional affixestypevaluePlural 1 Personal pronounpossessive: plural4Case 2 predicative person:singular5Personal pronounpossessive:singular3 predicative person:plural6Step 3: Reverse the Right-to-Left FSM to form aLeft-to-Right  FSMReverse the Right-to-Left FSM, and form aNon-deterministic Finite-state Automaton (NFA) (SeeFigure 4).
The number in each circle of Figure 4represents the state value consistent with the statevalue of Figure 3.
The types and expressing values arealso marked above the lines in Figure 4.Figure 4.
Left-to-Right NFA of inflectional affixes.Step 4: Convert NFA to DFAThe multi-switches and "?"
switches of an expressingvalue of NFA makes the realization of NFA oncomputer very complex.
Therefore, we should convertthe NFA to be a DFA with the purpose of making eachinputted expressing value facing one switch andmaking "?"
switch nonexistent.
We adopt ?subsetconstruction algorithm?
[A.V.Aho et al ,1986] toconduct the operation.
We make each state of the newDFA correspondent to a subset of the NFA.
As Table 2shows, the start state (A)of DFA contains one element?0?
and the start state of  NFA.
We know that all otherstates can be achieved from the state ?0?
through "?"switches.
Thus, the start state of DFA could beA={0?
1?
2?
3?
4?
5}.
The numbers in thebrackets represent inputted expressing values or typesof affixes.
The next state of DFA should be startedwith A and ?1?
2?
3?
4?
5?can be separatelyinputted as expressing values.
The FAS can thus beestablished.Table 2.
The Conversion from NFA to DFA of InflectionalAffixes.
?-closure(C,1)={1}B?-closure(D,1)={1}B?-closure({0})={0,1,2,3,4,5}*A?-closure(A,1)={1} *B?-closure(A,2)={1,2,3} *C?-closure(A,4)={2,4} *D?-closure(A,6)={2} *E ?-closure(E,1)={1} BFigure 5.
FSM of Inflectional Affixes of Nouns.inflectional affixes of verbs.5 Approaches to the Segmentation ofInflectional Affixes of Kazakh WordsSome mathematical frameworks or modelingmethodologies can be used for morphology learningand word segmentation: maximum likelihood (ML)modeling, probabilistic maximum a posteriori (MAP)models, finite state automata (FSA), etc.The algorithms suitable for the segmentation ofinflectional affixes of Kazakh words include thefollowings: Bidirectional Maximum Matching andOmni-word Segmentation.5.1 Bidirectional Matching AlgorithmForward and backward algorithm is applied for thesegmentation of a given word is examined for thewords whose surface forms change after concatenation.The basic idea of this approach is to conduct thesegmentation of inflectional affixes from left side of acharacter string to its right side and vice versa.
Butduring the process, the critical issue is to determine theborder between stens and inflectional affixes.
Undermany situations, vague borders between stens andinflectional affixes cause the inaccurate stemming.Thus, this algorithm can solve this problem.5.2 Omni-word Segmentation AlgorithmThe basic idea of this algorithm is to find all thesegmentation forms of character strings waited for thesegmentation starting from position ?i?.
For Kazakhtext, we should find all the segmentation forms of aword.
We just leave the issue of ambiguity for laterdiscussion.5.3 The Combination of BidirectionalOmni-word Segmentation Algorithm andThe Lexical Analysis1) The segmentation of inflectional affixes isconducted from the left side of a Kazakh word andthen matched with the table of inflectional affixes.
Ingeneral the inflectional affixes are formed by shortcharacter strings.
Therefore some inflectional affixesmaybe become sub-strings of other inflectional affixes.It is very possible that there are many successfulmatches of inflectional affixes, that is to say, there willbe various segmentations of inflectional affixes of aword, But only one of them is accurate.
So we need toclassify the inflectional affixes and enact the rules toguide their connection order.
According to those ruleswe just search one type of inflectional affixes andadopt Maximum matching algorithm to avoid theproblem of many segmentations of an affix.
Whenconducting the segmentation of inflectional affixesand the stem extraction, we call the far right side ofsegmentation border ?candidate border?
.2) The extract stems is conducted from the right side ofa Kazakh word and then matched with the lexicon inorder to find the candidate border of the sten.
Theability to form new words for some affixes is verystrong, so many stems which are added to variousderivational affixes become new stems of other words.So the situation is the same with the segmentation ofinflectional affixes.
We should conduct Omni-wordSegmentation and list all the possible segmentationforms of affixes.We should deal with some special problems whenconducting segmentation of inflectional affixes.Borders of stens will be changed somewhat whensome inflectional affixes are added to the stens.Changes would occur like vowel deletion and lenitionreduction.
Sometimes it is impossible to find thecomplete match in the lexicon.
Under such situation,we should apply orthographic rule of Kazakh languageto deal with it.6 The Analysis of the Ambiguity ofInflectional Affixes6.1 Rule-based analysis of AmbiguityTo prevent over-segmentation and secure the semanticidentity of a word, stem and suffix boundary is chosenas the primary target of segmentation.Suppose the right border of inflectional affix isindicated as S1 while the left border of sten as S2.
Theambiguity probably occurred in the segmentation islisted below as well as its solution.1) S1=S2  (Under various situations, it is possible thatS1 is S2):  Under this situation we should segment thelongest sten.2) S1 ?S2 (Under this situation, we also consider thefollowing two cases see Figure 8)Case 1:(1) The sub-string on the right side of S1 will beregarded as the candidate stem.
And then we shouldapply orthographic rule to make a choice of thecandidate stem and the sub-string on the left side of S1.
(2) If some variants of the words do exist, a new sten isformed; otherwise, go to Step 5.
(3) We should search the new sten in the lexicon(4) If we succeed to find the new sten in the lexicon,please tag the stem and the inflectional affix (the leftsub-string of S1)(5) EndCase 2:We should apply probability statistics to solvethe problem.Figure 6(a).
Case 1: (S1 ?S2).Figure 6(b).
Case 2: (S1 ?S2).3) Non-matched stems but with matched inflectionalaffixesWe adopt the same solution to deal with thissituation.
That is to say, we at first should applyorthographic rule to make a choice of the sub-string onthe left side of S1 and the sub-string on the right side ofS1.And we also try to find the existence of lenitionreduction.
If we could not find the new sten in thelexicon, we should change to apply probabilitystatistics to analyze.4) Non-matched stens with non-matched inflectionalaffixesWe should search the inflectional affixes from theleft side of the word to be segmented.
If we could notfind the match in the lexicon, we should judge thesuffix and the sub-string on the right side by use oforthographic rule.
And then we continue to search thecandidate stem in the lexicon.
If the match does exist,we tag the word as a sten; otherwise we tag it as anunregistered word.5) Non-matched inflectional affixes with matchedstems.We consider the sub-string on the left side of thestem as the candidate derivational affix and search thematch in the table of derivational affixes.
If  the matchcould be found in the table and its type is the same withthe stem , we should tag the word as a stem; otherwisewe tag it as an unregistered word.6.2 The ambiguity analysis based on BayesianclassificationThe principle of Semantic Bayesian classifier is toconsider the information of surrounding words ofambiguous words in a large context.
Each practicalword contains potentially useful information to implythe possible semantics of the ambiguous words.
ThisClassifier is not a features selection but a combinationof all features.
The ambiguous words of the corpusshould be semantically tagged in advance.Table 3 listssome symbols presented by this paper.Table 3.
Symbols Agreement.Symbol MeaningW An ambiguous words1,?,sk,?,sK ALL the different segmentationsof Wc1,?,ci,?,cI the context in which W is in thecorpusv1,?,vj,?,vJ the context features of theDisambiguationWhen selecting the types, the Bayesian classifier usingBayesian decision-making rules could be used; thoserules can minimize the error probability (R. O.Duda, P.E.
Hart.
,1973).According to simple Bayesian assumption, we haverevised the decision making rules, as follows:Simple Bayesian decision-making rules.Decide's  if's =argmaxsk[logP(sk) + ?vj in clogP(vj|sk)]  ?1?P (vj | sk) and P (sk) in the formula can be calculatedusing the maximum likelihood estimates from thetagging of training in Corpus:)](log)(max[logarg)()(maxarg)()()(maxarg)(maxarg'kkskkskkskssPscPsPscPsPcPscPcsPskkkk)()()(),(),()|(wCsCsPsvCsvCsvPkkkttkjkj?
?2?C(vj,sk) in the formula is the number to show howmany times sk is to be segmented by vj in the contextof training materials; C (sk) is the number to show howmany times that sk occur in the training corpus; and C(w) is the total number to show how many times theunambiguous words occur.Figure 7.
Bayes Disambiguation.7 The Design of the SystemIn the process of segmenting affixes in Kazakhlanguage, the main task is to segment the prefixes,stems, and inflectional affixes.
For this purpose, About60,000 stems and  438 tables of affixes are collectedas the basis of segmentation.
The stem list consists ofalmost all the common stems except from the domainspecific words and rarely used words.
The realizationof the whole system experiences the following steps:1) Take a Kazakh word from a text.2) Establish a FSM of a noun or a verb.
If possible,directly give the result of segmentation and return tostep 1;otherwise turn to the next step.3) Adopt the combination of Bidirectional Omni-wordSegmentation Algorithm and the Lexical Analysis toanalyze for the words to be segmented.
If possiblysegmented, directly give the result of the segmentationand return to step 1; otherwise adopt BayesianClassification by use of the parameters from thetraining corpus to select the correct segmentation ofambiguous words.4) The result of tagging the segmentation of affixes .The corpus contains 150?992 words, among which51% is used as training corpus while the rest as testcorpus.
The accuracy rates generated from the testesconducted for this paper include Precision 1 andPrecision 2.
We can define two evaluation functions,as follows:Definition 1:The accuracy rate of inflectional affixessegmentation of words.numbers of correct extracted stems1 100%total wordsprecision  u(3)Definition 2: The accuracy rate of inflectional affixessegmentation of ambiguous wordsnumbers of correct extracted ambiguous words2 100%total number of ambiguous wordsprecision  u(4)8 Experimental results8.1 The comparison of the segmentation speedsTable 5 shows the comparison of the segmentationspeeds, in which we compare the system adoptingFSM to the system not adopting FSM.
We have tested10?000 words and the result of the comparison isquite obvious, which indicates the high segmentationspeed of the system adopting FSM.Table 4.
The comparison of Two segmentation speeds.Type ofsegmentationThenumberof testedwordsTotal timeused forsegmentation(Ms)averagevelocity(Ms/words)not adoptingFSM100,00 24?422 2.4422adoptingFSM100,00 19?408 1.94088.2 The Analysis of the result of inflectionalaffixes segmentationThis paper adopts the combination of bidirectionalomni-segmentation and rule-based segmentation tosegment inflectional affixes and extract stems.Table 5.
The contrast of affix segmentations by use ofdifferent algorithms.AlgorithmsPrecision1?%?Omni-word Segmentation  78.1Maximum matching 74.2Combination of bidirectionalomni-segmentation and lexical analysis84.0The tests show that the final one improves theaccuracy rate of affix segmentation and realizes thesegmentation of inflectional affixes.8.3 The Analysis of segmentation of ambiguouswordsThis paper puts forward that we should firstly adoptrule-based approach or algorithm to the segmentationof ambiguous words, if without any result, we shouldadopt Bayesian Classification to the segmentation ofambiguous words.
In the test corpora, among 74,026words 922 words are ambiguous words.
So at first weshould adopt rule-based algorithm to deal with thoseambiguous words, in which 600 ambiguous words canbe correctly dealt with; and then we should adoptBayesian Classification Algorithm to further improvethe accuracy rate of the segmentation of ambiguouswords.
As a result, the accuracy rate of thesegmentation of ambiguous words can be reached to84.38%.
Table 7 shows the analysis of thesegmentation of ambiguous words.Table 6.
The analysis of the segmentation of ambiguouswords.Algorithm to dealwith ambiguouswordsTotal numberof ambiguouswords of testcorporaNumber ofcorrectlysegmentedambiguouswordsPrecision2?%?Rule-basedsegmentation ofambiguouswords922 532 57.70%Bayesianclassification390 246 63.07%9 Conclusion and Future StudyThis paper firstly analyzes the morphemic structure inthe corpus of Kazakh Language, and especially studiesstem extraction and affix segmentation.
It establishesthe FSM of inflectional affixes and then conducts thesegmentation of inflectional affixes.
The process startswith the analysis of FSM of the words to be segmented.If successfully achieved, the result would beconsidered as the result of segmentation.
Otherwise,the algorithm of combining the bidirectionalomni-word segmentation and ruled basedsegmentation should be adopted to segment theinflectional affixes, which better solves the problem ofsegmenting inflectional affixes.
At last the paperpresents that we should apply the method of statisticsto disambiguate the segmentation of inflectionalaffixes of ambiguous words.
Compared to otherapproaches, this approach improves the accuracy rateand the segmentation speed of segmenting inflectionalaffixes.But there exist other problems presented in this paper,such as unregistered words.
We should continue tomake efforts to improve the accuracy rate of thesegmentation of inflectional affixes through furtherenlarging the vocabulary of the dictionary andadopting the method of statistics.
And we should bewell-trained in obtaining parameters of segmentationmodels of Kazakh Language, making the languagemodel close to the reality language itself.AcknowledgmentThis work is funded by the Natural ScienceFoundation of China(NSFC)(No.60763005), And  theProject of China Ministry of Education(No.MZ115-92).ReferencesA.Kut, A. Aplko?ak, E.?zkarahan.
1995.Bilgi bulmasistemleri i?in otomatic turk?e dizinleme y?ntemi.In Bili?im Bildirileri, Dokuz Eyl?l University, ?zmir,Turkey.A.V.Aho,R.Sethi&J.D.Ullman.
1986.
Compilers:principles,techniques,tools[R].Reading,MA:Addison Wesley.A.Gulila ,A.M i j i t.2004 .Reseach on Uighur WordSegmentation, Journal of Chinese informationprocessing ,l .
18( 6):61-65.A.Gulila, A.Dawel.2007.Study on the Rule-basedKazakh Word Lemmatization, 11TH  Symposiumnational language and informationProceedings ,Xishuangbanna, 109-114.E.G?l?en , A.E?ref.
2004.
An affix strippingmorphological analyzer for Turkish, Proceedings ofthe International Conference on ArtificialIntelligence and Application,Austria,299-304.K.Aykiz,K.Kaysar,I.Turgun,2006.MorphologicalAnalysis of Uighur Noun for Natural LanguageInformation Processing,Journal of Chineseinformation processing?20(3)?43-48.Liang nan-yuan.
1987.The Mordern Printed ChineseDistinguishing Word System, Journal of Chineseinformation processing,l .
1 (2)?44-52.M.F.Porter.
1980.An algorithm for suffix stripping?,Program ,14(3)?130?137.Milat etc.
2003.Contemporary Kazakh language,Xinjiang People's Publishing House.R.
O.Duda, P. E. Hart.
1973.
Pattern Classification andScene Analysis,John Wiley and Sons, NewYork,10-43.Shen Da-yang,Huang Chang-ning,Sun Moa-song,1997.
The approaches of Information integrationand bestpath seaching inCWASS, Journal ofChinese information processing, l .
11 (2?
?34-47.U.Nasun, 1997 .The automatic segmentation systemof Mongolian roots, stems, word, Journal of  InnerMongolia University ,NO2?53-57.YuShi-Wen,2003.TheGrammatical Knowledge-baseof Contemporary Chinese-A CompleteSpecification, Tsinghua University Press.Zhang ding-jin.
2004.Modern Kazakh languagepracticality grammar?The central University forNationalities Publishing House.Yusup Abaidula ?
Rezwangul, Abdiryim Sali.2005.The Research and Development of ComputerAided Contemporary Uighur Language TaggingSystem.
Journal of Chinese Language andComputing.
