Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Finding the Common Ground, ACL 2010, page 79,Uppsala, Sweden, 16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsInjecting Linguistics into NLP through AnnotationEduard HovyUSC/ISI4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292USAhovy@isi.eduOver the past 20 years, the size of the L in Com-putational Linguistics has been shrinking relativeto the size of the C. The result is that we are in-creasingly becoming a community of uninformedbut sophisticated engineers, applying to problemsvery complex machine learning techniques thatuse very simple (simplistic?)
analyses/theories.
(Try finding a theoretical account of subjectiv-ity, opinion, entailment, or inference in publica-tions surrounding the associated competitions ofthe past few years.
)When we grow tired of embarrassing ourselves,what should we do?
Fortunately, injecting somelinguistic (and other) sophistication into our workis not that complicated.
The key is annotation: byusing a theoretically informed set of choices ratherthan a bottom-up naive one, we can have annota-tors tag corpora with labels that reflect some un-derlying theories.
While the large-C contingentof our community will not care, researchers in-terested in investigating language rather than pro-cessing will be able to find new ways to connectwith Corpus Linguists, Psycholinguists, and evenOntologists.It turns out that many of our surrounding aca-demic communities ?
Linguists, Political Scien-tists, Biocurators, etc.
?
have been performing an-notation for years in order to build and prove theirtheories.
They have however been largely unawareof the power of NLP technology and the benefitswe can bring to them.
There is a natural marriage?
several, actually ?
waiting to happen.What is the benefit to us?
What?s wrong withsimply continuing to use half-baked annotationschemes to train our machine learning systems on?Several things:?
half-baked schemes generally fail in the longrun-that?s why more-sophisticated ones aredeveloped?
there are dozens to hundreds of graduatestudents and young researchers in surround-ing communities eager to help build cor-pora by running annotation efforts and usingthe problems uncovered while annotating todrive further theory formation?
because they?re generally more ?correct?,more-sophisticated annotations allow stack-ing of multiple phenomena upon the samematerial with fewer internal inconsistenciesand problems.Such stacking eventually enables multi-phenomenon analysis and mutual disambiguationin ways that an incommensurately annotatedcorpus does not.79
