Proceedings of the Workshop on Negation and Speculation in Natural Language Processing, page 50,Uppsala, July 2010.Negation and Modality in Distributional SemanticsEd HovyInformation Sciences InstituteUniversity of Southern Californiahovy@isi.eduAbstractIn Natural Language Processing, negation and modality have mostly been handledusing the older, pre-statistical methodologies of formal representations subject torule-based processing.
This fits the traditional treatment of negation and modalityin logic-based knowledge representation and linguistics.
However, in modern-daystatistics-based NLP, how exactly negation and modality should be taken into ac-count, and what role these phenomena play overall, is much less clear.
The closeststatistics-based NLP gets to semantics at this time is lexical-based word distribu-tions (such as used in word sense disambiguation) and topic models (such as pro-duced by Latent Dirichlet Allocation).
What exactly in such representations shoulda negation or a modality actually apply to?
What would, or should, the resultingeffects be?
The traditional approaches are of little or no help.In this talk I argue that neither model is adequate, and that one needs a differentmodel of semantics to be able to accommodate negation and modality.
The tradi-tional formalisms are impoverished in their absence of an explicit representationof the denotations of each symbol, and the statistics-based word distributions donot support the compositionality required of semantics since it is unclear how tolink together two separate word distributions in a semantically meaningful way.
Akind of hybrid, which one could call Distributional Semantics, should be formu-lated to include the necessary aspects of both: the ability to carry explicit wordassociations that are still partitioned so as to allow negation and modality to affectthe representations in intuitively plausible ways is what is required.I present a specific model of Distributional Semantics that, although still rudi-mentary, exhibits some of the desired features.
I explore the possibilities for ac-commodating the phenomena of negation and modality.
The talk poses many morequestions than it answers and is an invitation to consider Distributional Semanticsas a model for richer and more semantics-oriented statistics-based NLP.50
