Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 117?125,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Internet-Age Pharmacovigilance: Extracting Adverse DrugReactions from User Posts to Health-Related Social NetworksRobert Leaman1, Laura Wojtulewicz2, Ryan Sullivan2Annie Skariah2, Jian Yang1, Graciela Gonzalez21School of Computing, Informatics and Decision Systems Engineering2Department of Biomedical InformaticsArizona State University, Tempe, Arizona, USA{robert.leaman, whitz, rpsulli, annie.skariah,jian.yang, graciela.gonzalez}@asu.eduAbstractAdverse reactions to drugs are among themost common causes of death in industri-alized nations.
Expensive clinical trials arenot sufficient to uncover all of the adversereactions a drug may cause, necessitatingsystems for post-marketing surveillance,or pharmacovigilance.
These systemshave typically relied on voluntary report-ing by health care professionals.
However,self-reported patient data has become anincreasingly important resource, with ef-forts such as MedWatch from the FDA al-lowing reports directly from the consumer.In this paper, we propose mining the re-lationships between drugs and adverse re-actions as reported by the patients them-selves in user comments to health-relatedwebsites.
We evaluate our system on amanually annotated set of user comments,with promising performance.
We also re-port encouraging correlations between thefrequency of adverse drug reactions foundby our system in unlabeled data and thefrequency of documented adverse drug re-actions.
We conclude that user commentspose a significant natural language pro-cessing challenge, but do contain usefulextractable information which merits fur-ther exploration.1 IntroductionIt is estimated that approximately 2 million pa-tients in the United States are affected each year bysevere adverse drug reactions, resulting in roughly100,000 fatalities.
This makes adverse drug re-actions the fourth leading cause of death in theU.S, following cancer and heart diseases (Giaco-mini et al, 2007).
It is estimated that $136 bil-lion is spent annually on treating adverse drug re-actions in the U.S., and other nations face simi-lar difficulties (van Der Hooft et al, 2006; Leoneet al, 2008).
Unfortunately, the frequency of ad-verse drug reactions is often under-estimated dueto a reliance on voluntary reporting (Bates et al,2003; van Der Hooft et al, 2006).While severe adverse reactions have receivedsignificant attention, less attention has been di-rected to the indirect costs of more commonadverse reactions such as nausea and dizziness,which may still be severe enough to motivate thepatient to stop taking the drug.
The literatureshows, however, that non-compliance is a majorcause of the apparent failure of drug treatments,and the resulting economic costs are estimated tobe quite significant (Urquhart, 1999; Hughes et al,2001).
Thus, detecting and characterizing adversedrug reactions of all levels of severity is criticallyimportant, particularly in an era where the demandfor personalized health care is high.1.1 DefinitionsAn adverse drug reaction is generally defined asan unintended, harmful reaction suspected to becaused by a drug taken under normal conditions(World Health Organization, 1966; Lee, 2006).This definition is sufficiently broad to include suchconditions as allergic reactions, drug tolerance,addiction or aggravation of the original condition.A reaction is considered severe if it ?results indeath, requires hospital admission or prolonga-tion..., results in persistent or significant disabil-ity/incapacity, or is life-threatening,?
or if it causesa congenital abnormality (Lee, 2006).1171.2 PharmacovigilanceThe main sources of adverse drug reaction in-formation are clinical trials and post-marketingsurveillance instruments made available by theFood and Drug Administration (FDA), Centersfor Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in theUnited States, and similar governmental agenciesworldwide.
The purpose of a clinical trial, how-ever, is only to determine whether a product iseffective and to detect common serious adverseevents.
Clinical trials, by their nature and pur-pose, are focused on a limited number of par-ticipants selected by inclusion/exclusion criteriareflecting specific subject characteristics (demo-graphic, medical condition and diagnosis, age).Thus, major uncertainties about the safety of thedrug remain when the drug is made available toa wider population over longer periods of time,in patients with co-morbidities and in conjunctionwith other medications or when taken for off-labeluses not previously evaluated.Recently, the regulatory bodies of both the U.S.and the U.K. have begun programs for patient re-porting of adverse drug reactions.
Studies haveshown that patient reporting is of similar qual-ity to that of health professionals, and there issome evidence that patients are more likely toself-report adverse drug reactions when they be-lieve the health professionals caring for them havenot paid sufficient attention to an adverse reaction(Blenkinsopp et al, 2007).
In general, however,the FDA advocates reporting only serious eventsthrough MedWatch.Self-reported patient information captures avaluable perspective that might not be captured ina doctor?s office, clinical trial, or even in the mostsophisticated surveillance software.
For this rea-son, the International Society of Drug Bulletinsasserted in 2005 that ?patient reporting systemsshould periodically sample the scattered drug ex-periences patients reported on the internet.
?1.3 Social NetworksSocial networks focusing on health related topicshave seen rapid growth in recent years.
Users inan online community often share a wide varietyof personal medical experiences.
These interac-tions can take many forms, including blogs, mi-croblogs and question/answer discussion forums.For many reasons, patients often share health ex-periences with each other rather than in a clini-cal research study or with their physician (Davi-son et al, 2000).
Such social networks bridgethe geographical gap between people, allowingthem to connect with patients who share similarconditions?something that might not be possiblein the real world.In this paper we propose and evaluate automat-ically extracting relationships between drugs andadverse reactions in user posts to health-relatedsocial network websites.
We anticipate this tech-nique will provide valuable additional confirma-tion of suspected associations between drugs andadverse reactions.
Moreover, it is possible thistechnique may eventually provide the ability todetect novel associations earlier than with currentmethods.2 Related WorkIn the work closest in purpose to this study, tworeviewers manually analyzed 1,374 emails to theBBC and 862 messages on a discussion forum re-garding a link between the drug paroxetine andseveral adverse reactions including withdrawalsymptoms and suicide (Medawara et al, 2002).The authors concluded that the user reports con-tained clear evidence of linkages that the voluntaryreporting system then in place had not detected.Not much work has been done to automaticallyextract adverse reactions from text, other than theSIDER side effect resource, which was created bymining drug insert literature (Kuhn et al, 2010).There is, however, significant literature support formining more general concepts, such as diseases.MetaMap is a primarily lexical system for map-ping concepts in biomedical text to concepts inthe UMLS Metathesaurus (Aronson, 2001).
TheConText system categorizes findings in clinicalrecords as being negated, hypothetical, or histor-ical (Harkema et al, 2009).Most of the work on finding diseases concernseither biomedical text or clinical records.
A no-table exception is the BioCaster system, which de-tects infectious disease outbreaks by mining newsreports posted to the web (Collier et al, 2008).Health social networks have become a popularway for patients to share their health related expe-riences.
A considerable amount of research hasbeen devoted to this area (Moturu et al, 2008),but most of this work has focused on the study ofsocial interactions and quality evaluation insteadof text mining.
Automated information extrac-118tion from health social network websites remainslargely unexplored.3 Data PreparationWe used the DailyStrength1 health-related socialnetwork as the source of user comments in thisstudy.
DailyStrength allows users to create pro-files, maintain friends and join various disease-related support groups.
It serves as a resource forpatients to connect with others who have similarconditions, many of whom are friends solely on-line.
As of 2007, DailyStrength had an averageof 14,000 daily visitors, each spending 82 minuteson the site and viewing approximately 145 pages(comScore Media Metrix Canada, 2007).3.1 Data AcquisitionTo efficiently gather user comments about spe-cific drugs from the DailyStrength site, we im-plemented a highly parallelized automatic webcrawler.
All data was scraped from the rawHTML using regular expressions since the site hasno open API.
Users indicate a specific treatmentwhen posting comments to DailyStrength, how-ever we filter treatments which are not drugs.
Foreach user comment we extracted the user ID, dis-ease name, drug name, and comment text.
Whilemore information about each user is available atthe site (gender, age, self-declared location, andlength of membership at the site), we limited ourdata usage to just the comment data.
The Dai-lyStrength Privacy Policy states that commentsmade by users will be publicly available.
Alldata was gathered in accordance with the Dai-lyStrength Terms of Service, and to respect fairuse the data will not be made publicly availablewithout permission from the site.3.2 Preparing the LexiconTo enable finding adverse reactions in the usercomments, we created a lexicon by combiningterms and concepts from four resources.The UMLS Metathesaurus is a resource con-taining many individual biomedical vocabularies(National Library of Medicine, 2008).
We utilizeda subset limited to the COSTART vocabulary cre-ated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration forpost-marketing surveillance of adverse drug reac-tions, which contains 3,787 concepts.1http://www.dailystrength.orgThe SIDER side effect resource contains 888drugs linked with 1,450 adverse reaction termsextracted from pharmaceutical insert literature(Kuhn et al, 2010).
We used the raw term foundin the literature and the associated UMLS conceptidentifier (CUI).The Canada Drug Adverse Reaction Database,or MedEffect2, contains associations between10,192 drugs and 3,279 adverse reactions, whichwe used to create a list of adverse reaction terms.We found many adverse reaction terms with verysimilar meanings, for example ?appetite exagger-ated,?
and ?appetite increased,?
which we groupedtogether manually.We also included a small set of colloquialphrases we located manually in a subset of theDailyStrength comments and mapped to UMLSCUIs.
This list is available3, and includes theterms ?throw up,?
meaning vomit, ?gain pounds,?meaning weight gain, and ?zonked out,?
meaningsomnolence.We considered all terms which are associatedwith the same UMLS concept identifier (CUI) assynonymous and grouped them into a single con-cept.
We also merged all concepts containing aterm in common into a single unified concept.
Ourlexicon contains 4,201 unified concepts, each con-taining between one and about 200 terms.4 AnnotationWe annotated comments relating to the following4 drugs: carbamazepine, olanzapine, trazodone,and ziprasidone.
These drugs were chosen be-cause they are known to cause adverse reactionsand we could verify our results with close collabo-rators.
We retained but did not annotate commentsfor the drugs aspirin and ciprofloxacin; these com-ments are used during evaluation.
Our data con-tains a total of 6,890 comment records.
User com-ments were selected for annotation randomly andwere independently annotated by two annotators.Annotator 1 has a BS in biology, 10 years nurs-ing experience in the behavioral unit of a long termcare facility, and has dispensed all of the drugs an-notated.
Annotator 2 has a BS and an MS in neuro-science, and has work experience in data manage-ment for pharmaceutical-related clinical researchand post-marketing drug surveillance.2http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/dhp-mps/medeff/index-eng.php3http://diego.asu.edu/downloads/adrs119Concept DefinitionAdverseeffectA reaction to the drug experienced by thepatient, which the user considered nega-tiveBeneficialeffectA reaction to the drug experienced by thepatient, which the user considered posi-tiveIndication The condition for which the patient is tak-ing the drugOther A disease or reaction related term notcharacterizable as one of the aboveTable 1: The concepts annotated in this study andtheir definitions.4.1 Concepts AnnotatedEach comment was annotated for mentions of ad-verse effects, beneficial effects, indications andother terms, as defined in table 1.
Each annota-tion included the span of the mention and the nameof the concept found, using entries from the lexi-con described in section 3.2.
Each annotation alsoindicates whether it refers to an adverse effect, abeneficial effect, an indication or an other term,which we shall call its characterization.4.2 Annotation PracticesThere are four aspects which require careful con-sideration when characterizing mentions.
First,the stated concept may or may not be actuallyexperienced by the patient; mentions of conceptsnot experienced by the patient were categorized asother.
Second, the user may state that the con-cept is the reason for taking the drug.
If so, themention was categorized as an indication.
Third,the concept may be an effect caused by the drug.In this case, the mention is categorized as eitheran adverse effect or a beneficial effect based onwhether the user considers the effect a positiveone.
This requires some judgment regarding whatpeople normally view as positive ?
while sleepi-ness is normally an adverse effect, someone suf-fering from insomnia would consider it a benefi-cial effect, regardless of whether insomnia is theprimary reason for taking the drug.
Mentions ofconcepts which were experienced by the patientbut neither an effect of the drug nor the reason fortaking it were also categorized as other.
Conceptswere characterized as an adverse effect unless thecontext indicated otherwise.Comments not containing a mention or that onlyindicated the presence of an adverse effect (?Gaveme weird side effects?)
were discarded.
If morethan one mention occurred in a comment, theneach mention was annotated separately.Some comments clearly mentioned an adversereaction, but the reaction itself was ambiguous.For example, in the comment ?It did the job whenI was really low.
However, I BALLOONED onit,?
the annotator could infer ?BALLOONED?
tomean either weight gain or edema.
A frequent ex-ample is colloquial terms such as ?zombie,?
whichcould be interpreted as a physiological effect (e.g.fatigue) or a cognitive effect (e.g.
mental dull-ness).
In such cases, each mention was annotatedby using both the context of the mention and an-notator?s knowledge of the effects of the drug.Spans were annotated by choosing the mini-mum span of characters from the comment thatwould maintain the meaning of the term.
Lo-cating the mention boundaries was straightfor-ward in many cases, even when descriptive wordswere in the middle of the term (?It works bet-ter than the other meds ive taken but I amgaining some weight?).
However some com-ments were not as simple (?it works but thepounds are packing on?
).4.3 Corpus DescriptionA total of 3,600 comments were annotated, a sam-ple of which can be seen in table 2.
We reserved450 comments for system development.
The an-notators found 1,260 adverse effects, 391 indica-tions, 157 beneficial effects and 78 other, for a to-tal of 1,886 annotations.We measured the agreement between annotatorsby calculating both kappa (?)
(Cohen, 1960) andinter-annotator agreement (IAA).
For ?, we con-sidered agreement to mean that the concept termswere in the same unified concept from the lexiconand the characterization of the mentions matched,since there is no standard method for calculating?
which includes the span.
For IAA, we addedthe constraint that the annotation spans must over-lap, since discussions of IAA typically include thespan.
Using these definitions, ?
was calculated tobe 85.6% and IAA to be 85.3%4.5 Text MiningSince the drug name is specified by the user whenthe comment is submitted to DailyStrength, no ex-4?>IAA here due to the different definitions of agree-ment.120Sample Comments Annotationshallucinations and weight gain ?hallucinations?
- hallucinations: adverse effect; ?weight gain?- weight gain: adverse effectThis has helped take the edge off of my constant sorrow.It has also perked up my appetite.
I had lost a lot ofweight and my doctor was concerned.
?constant sorrow?
- depression: indication; ?perked up my ap-petite?
- appetite increased: beneficial effect; ?lost a lot ofweight?
- weight loss: otherIt worked well, but doctor didn?t asked for the treatmentto continue once my husband was doing well again.noneARGH!
Got me nicely hypomanic for two weeks, thenpooped out on me and just made me gain a half pounda day so I had to stop.?hypomanic?
- hypomania: beneficial effect; ?pooped out?
-tolerance: adverse effect; ?gain a half a pound a day?
- weightgain: adverse effectWorks to calm mania or depression but zonks me andscares me about the diabetes issues reported.?mania?
- mania: indication; ?depression?
- depression: indi-cation; ?zonks me?
- somnolence: adverse effect; ?diabetes?
-diabetes: otherWorks for my trigeminal neuralgia.
Increasing to see ifit helps stabalize mood.
Fatigue!
?trigeminal neuralgia?
- trigeminal neuralgia: indication; ?sta-balize mood?
- emotional instability: indication; ?Fatigue?
-fatigue: adverse effectTake for seizures and bipolar works well ?seizures?
- seizures: indication; ?bipolar?
- bipolar disorder:indicationfatty patti!
?fatty?
- weight gain: adverse effectTable 2: An illustrative selection of uncorrected comments submitted to the DailyStrength health-relatedsocial networking website, and their associated annotations.traction was necessary for drug names.
To ex-tract the adverse drug reactions from the usercomments, we implemented a primarily lexicalmethod, utilizing the lexicon discussed in section3.2.5.1 Methods UsedEach user comment was split into sentences usingthe Java sentence breaker, tokenized by splitting atwhitespace and punctuation, and tagged for part-of-speech using the Hepple tagger (Hepple, 2000).Stop-words were removed from both user com-ments and lexical terms5.
Tokens were stemmedusing the Snowball implementation of the Porter2stemmer6.Terms from the lexicon were found in the usercomments by comparing a sliding window of to-kens from the comment to each token in the lexicalterm.
The size of the window is configurable andset to 5 for this study since that is the number oftokens in the longest term found by the annotators.Using a sliding window allows the tokens to be indifferent orders and for there to be irrelevant to-kens between the relevant ones, as in weight gainand ?gained a lot of weight.
?Since user comments contain many spelling er-rors, we used the Jaro-Winkler measurement ofstring similarity to compare the individual tokens5http://ir.dcs.gla.ac.uk/resources/linguistic utils/stop words6http://snowball.tartarus.org(Winkler, 1999).
We scored the similarity betweenthe window of tokens in the user comment and thetokens in the lexical term by pairing them as anassignment problem (Burkard et al, 2009).
Wethen summed the similarities of the individual to-kens and normalized the result by the number oftokens in the lexical term.
This score is calculatedfor both the original tokens and the stemmed to-kens in the window, and the final score is taken tobe the higher of the two scores.
The lexical term isconsidered to be present in a user comment if thefinal score is greater than a configurable threshold.We noted that most mentions could be cate-gorized by using the closest verb to the left ofthe mention, as in ?taking for seizures.?
As thisstudy focuses on adverse effects, we implementeda filtering method to remove indications, benefi-cial effects, and other mentions on a short list ofverbs we found to indicate them.
Verbs on thislist include ?helps,?
?works,?
and ?prescribe?
allof which generally denote indications.
The com-plete list is available7.5.2 Text Mining ResultsWe first evaluated the system against the 3,150 an-notated comments not reserved for system devel-opment.
Because our purpose is to find adversedrug reactions, we limited our evaluation to ad-7http://diego.asu.edu/downloads/adrs121verse effects.
We used a strict definition of truepositive, requiring the system to label the mentionwith a term from the same unified concept as theannotators.
The results of this study are 78.3%precision and 69.9% recall, for an f-measure of73.9%.Since the purpose of this study is to determineif mining user comments is a valid way to find ad-verse reactions, we ran our system on all avail-able comments and compared the frequencies ofadverse reactions found against their documentedincidence.
We calculated the frequency that eachadverse effect was found in the user commentsfor each of the drugs studied in this experiment.We then determined the most commonly found ad-verse reactions for each drug and compared themagainst the most common documented adverse re-actions for the drug.
Since the four drugs we chosefor annotation all act primarily on the central ner-vous system, we added aspirin and ciprofloxacinfor this study.
The results of this evaluation con-tain encouraging correlations that are summarizedin table 3.6 Discussion6.1 Error AnalysisWe performed an analysis to determine the pri-mary sources of error for our extraction system.We randomly selected 100 comments and deter-mined the reason for the 24 false positives (FPs)and 29 false negatives (FNs) found.The largest source of error (17% of FPs and55% of FNs) was the use of novel adverse re-action phrases (?liver problem?)
and descriptions(?burn like a lobster?).
This problem is due in partto idiomatic expressions, which may be handledby creating and using a specialist lexicon.
Thisproblem might also be partially relieved by the ap-propriate use of semantic analysis.
However, thissource of error is also caused by the users delib-erately employing a high degree of linguistic cre-ativity (?TURNED ME INTO THE SPAWN OFSATAN!!!?)
which may require deep backgroundknowledge to correctly recognize.The next largest source of error was poor ap-proximate string matching (46% of FPs and 17%of FNs).
While users frequently misspelled words,making lexical analysis difficult, the approximatestring matching technique used also introducedmany FPs.
We note that spelling unfamiliar med-ical terminology is particularly difficult for users.Correcting this important source of error will re-quire improved modeling of the spelling errorsmade by users.Ambiguous terms accounted for 8% of the FPsand 7% of the FNs.
While this is frequentlya problem with colloquial phrases (?brain fog?could refer to mental dullness or somnolence),there are some terms which are ambiguous on theirown (?numb?
may refer to loss of sensation oremotional indifference).
These errors can be cor-rected by improving the analysis of the contextsurrounding each mention.Surprisingly, miscategorizations only ac-counted for 4% of the FPs.
This small percentageseems to indicate that the simple filtering tech-nique employed is reasonably effective.
Howeverthis source of error can be seen more prominentlyin the frequency analysis, as seen in table 3.
Forexample, one of the most frequent effects found incomments about trazodone was insomnia, whichis one of its most common off-label uses.
Otherexamples included depression with olanzapine,mania with ziprasidone, and stroke with aspirin.We note that since conditions not being experi-enced by the patient are always categorized asother, our techniques should profit somewhatfrom an extension to handle negation.6.2 Analysis of Documented vs. FoundAdverse ReactionsThe experiment comparing the documented inci-dence of adverse reactions to the frequency theyare found contained some interesting correlationsand differences.
We begin by noting that the ad-verse reaction found most frequently for all 6 ofthe drugs corresponded to a documented adversereaction.
There were also similarities in the lesscommon reactions, such as diabetes with olanzap-ine and bleeding with aspirin.
In addition, many ofthe adverse reactions found corresponded to docu-mented, but less common, reactions to the drug.Examples of this included edema with olanzap-ine, nightmares with trazodone, weight gain withziprasidone, tinnitus with aspirin, and yeast infec-tion with ciprofloxacin.One interesting difference is the relative fre-quency of ?hangover?
in the comments for ziprasi-done.
Since the users were not likely referring toa literal hangover, they were probably referringto the fatigue, headache, dry mouth and nauseathat accompany a hangover, all of which are doc-122Drug name(Brand name)Primary Indi-cationsDocumented Adverse Effects(Frequency)Adverse Effects Found in User Comments (Fre-quency)carbamazepine(Tegretol)epilepsy,trigeminalneuralgiadizziness, somnolence or fa-tigue, unsteadiness, nausea,vomitingsomnolence or fatigue (12.3%), allergy (5.2%),weight gain (4.1%), rash (3.5%), depression (3.2%),dizziness (2.4%), tremor/spasm (1.7%), headache(1.7%), appetite increased (1.5%), nausea (1.5%)olanzapine(Zyprexa)schizophrenia,bipolardisorderweight gain (65%), alterationin lipids (40%), somnolenceor fatigue (26%), increasedcholesterol (22%), diabetes(2%)weight gain (30.0%), somnolence or fatigue(15.9%), appetite increased (4.9%), depression(3.1%), tremor (2.7%), diabetes (2.6%), mania(2.3%), anxiety (1.4%), hallucination (0.7%), edema(0.6%)trazodone(Oleptro)depression somnolence or fatigue (46%),headache (33%), dry mouth(25%), dizziness (25%), nausea(21%)somnolence or fatigue (48.2%), nightmares (4.6%),insomnia (2.7%), addiction (1.7%), headache(1.6%), depression (1.3%), hangover (1.2%), anxi-ety attack (1.2%), panic reaction (1.1%), dizziness(0.9%)ziprasidone(Geodon)schizophrenia somnolence or fatigue (14%),dyskinesia (14%), nausea(10%), constipation (9%),dizziness (8%)somnolence or fatigue (20.3%), dyskinesia (6.0%),mania (3.7%), anxiety attack (3.5%), weight gain(3.2%), depression (2.4%), allergic reaction (1.9%),dizziness (1.2%), panic reaction (1.2%)aspirin pain, fever,reduce bloodclottingnausea, vomiting, ulcers,bleeding, stomach pain orupsetulcers (4.5%), sensitivity (3.8%), stroke (3.1%),bleeding time increased (2.8%), somnolence or fa-tigue (2.7%), malaise (2.1%), weakness (1.4%),numbness (1.4%), bleeding (1.0%), tinnitus (0.7%)ciprofloxacin(Cipro)bacterial infec-tiondiarrhea (2.3%), vomiting(2.0%), abdominal pain(1.7%), headache (1.2%),restlessness (1.1%)abdominal pain (8.8%), malaise (4.4%), nau-sea (3.8%), allergy (3.1%), somnolence or fatigue(2.5%), dizziness (1.9%), weakness (1.6%), tolerance(1.5%), rash (1.3%), yeast infection (1.1%)Table 3: List of drugs included in the subset for analysis, with their indications and 5 most commonadverse effects together with their frequency of incidence in adults taking the drug over the course ofone year, as listed in the FDA online drug library, http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/drugsatfda(some frequency data is not available).
Also the 10 most frequent adverse effects found in the theDailyStrength data using our automated system.
Correlations are highlighted in bold.umented adverse reactions to the drug.Users frequently commented on weight gainand fatigue while ignoring other reactions such asincreased cholesterol.
While this may be becauseusers are more conscious of issues they can di-rectly observe, this hypothesis would not explainwhy other directly observable reactions such asnausea and constipation are not always reported.Determining the general trends in the differencesbetween clinical and user reports is an importantarea for future work.6.3 LimitationsThe present study has some limitations.
Wedid not analyze the demographics of the userswhose comments we mined, though it is likelythat they are predominantly from North Americaand English-speaking.
In future work we intendto expand the range of users and compare theirdemographics against clinical studies of adversereactions.
Also, the drugs we annotated oper-ate primarily on the central nervous system andtherefore have different adverse reaction profilesthan would other drugs with substantially differentmechanisms.
While the inclusion of aspirin andciprofloxacin does provide some evidence thesetechniques are more generally applicable, we alsointend to expand the range of drugs studied in fu-ture work.6.4 Opportunities for Further StudyIn addition to our current classification for ad-verse reactions, there are additional dimensionsalong which each user comment could be studied.For example, many comments describe the degreeof the adverse reaction, which can be straight-forward (?extremely?)
or more creative (?like apig?).
Also, many users explicitly state whetherthey are still taking the drug, typically indicatingwhether their physician took them off or whetherthey took themselves off (non-compliance), andwhether adverse reactions were the reason.
User123comments can also be categorized as medicallynon-descriptive (?I took one tablet and could?ntget out of bed for days and felt like I got hitby a truck?
), somewhat medically descriptive(?My kidneys were not functioning properly?
),or medically sound (?I ended up with severe legswelling?).
Comments also typically indicatewhether the user is the patient or a caretaker by be-ing phrased in either the first person or third personnarrative.
Finally, users also frequently describewhether they thought the benefits of the drug out-weighed the adverse effects.
We believe these ad-ditional dimensions represent a fertile area for fur-ther research.7 ConclusionIn summary, we have shown that user commentsto health related social networks do contain ex-tractable information relevant to pharmacovigi-lance.
We believe this approach should be eval-uated for the ability to detect novel relationshipsbetween drugs and adverse reactions.In addition to the improvements discussed insection 6, we plan in future work to increase thescale of the study (additional drugs, additionaldata sources, more user comments), improve thecharacterization of reactions using rule-based pat-terns, and evaluate the improved system with re-spect to all characterizations.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank Dr. Diana Pe-titti for her early support and suggestions, TasniaTahsin for reviewing an earlier version, Skatje My-ers for locating mergeable reaction concepts, andthe anonymous reviewers for many useful sugges-tions.
The authors are grateful for support fromScience Foundation Arizona grant CAA 0277-08, the Arizona Alzheimers Disease Data Man-agement Core under NIH Grant NIA P30 AG-19610, and the Arizona Alzheimers Consortiumpilot grant.ReferencesAlan R. Aronson.
2001.
Effective mapping of biomed-ical text to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMapprogram.
In Proceedings of the AMIA Symposium,page 17.
American Medical Informatics Associa-tion.D.W.
Bates, R.S.
Evans, H. Murff, P.D.
Stetson,L.
Pizziferri, and G. Hripcsak.
2003.
Detecting ad-verse events using information technology.
Journalof the American Medical Informatics Association,10(2):115?128.A.
Blenkinsopp, M. Wang, P. Wilkie, and P. A. Rout-ledge.
2007.
Patient reporting of suspected adversedrug reactions: a review of published literature andinternational experience.
British Journal of ClinicalPharmacology, 63(2):148?156.Rainer Burkard, Mauro Dell?Amico, and SilvanoMartello.
2009.
Assignment Problems.
Society forIndustrial and Applied Mathematics.Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A Coefficient of Agreement forNominal Scales.
Educational and PsychologicalMeasurement, 20(1):37?46.Nigel Collier, Son Doan, Ai Kawazoe, Reiko MatsudaGoodwin, Mike Conway, Yoshio Tateno, Quoc-Hung Ngo, Dinh Dien, Asanee Kawtrakul, KoichiTakeuchi, Mika Shigematsu, and Kiyosu Taniguchi.2008.
BioCaster: detecting public health rumorswith a Web-based text mining system.
Bioinformat-ics, 24(24):2940?2941.comScore Media Metrix Canada.
2007.
Key MeasuresReport - Health.K.
P. Davison, J. W. Pennebaker, and S. S. Dickerson.2000.
Who talks?
The social psychology of ill-ness support groups.
The American Psychologist,55(2):205?217.K.M.
Giacomini, R.M.
Krauss, D.M.
Roden,M.
Eichelbaum, M.R.
Hayden, and Y. Naka-mura.
2007.
When good drugs go bad.
Nature,446(7139):975?977.Henk Harkema, John N. Dowling, Tyler Thornblade,and Wendy W. Chapman.
2009.
ConText: An al-gorithm for determining negation, experiencer, andtemporal status from clinical reports.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, 42(5):839851.Mark Hepple.
2000.
Independence and commit-ment: Assumptions for rapid training and executionof rule-based POS taggers.
In Proceedings of the38th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 277?278.Dyfrig A. Hughes, Adrian Bagust, Alan Haycox,and Tom Walley.
2001.
The impact of non-compliance on the cost-effectiveness of pharmaceu-ticals: a review of the literature.
Health Economics,10(7):601?615.International Society Of Drug Bulletins.
2005.
BerlinDeclaration on Pharmacovigilance.Michael Kuhn, Monica Campillos, Ivica Letunic,Lars Juhl Jensen, and Peer Bork.
2010.
A side ef-fect resource to capture phenotypic effects of drugs.Molecular Systems Biology, 6:343?348.Anne Lee, editor.
2006.
Adverse Drug Reactions.Pharmaceutical Press, second edition.124Roberto Leone, Laura Sottosanti, Maria Luisa Iorio,Carmela Santuccio, Anita Conforti, Vilma Sabatini,Ugo Moretti, and Mauro Venegoni.
2008.
Drug-Related Deaths: An Analysis of the Italian Sponta-neous Reporting Database.
Drug Safety, 31(8):703?713.Charles Medawara, Andrew Herxheimer, Andrew Bell,and Shelley Jofre.
2002.
Paroxetine, Panoramaand user reporting of ADRs: Consumer intelligencematters in clinical practice and post-marketing drugsurveillance.
The International Journal of Risk andSafety in Medicine, 15(3):161169.S.
T. Moturu, H. Liu, and W. G. Johnson.
2008.
Trustevaluation in health information on the World WideWeb.
In 30th Annual International Conference ofthe IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology So-ciety, pages 1525?1528.National Library of Medicine.
2008.
UMLS Knowl-edge Sources.John Urquhart.
1999.
Pharmacoeconomic conse-quences of variable patient compliance with pre-scribed drug regimens.
PharmacoEconomics,15(3):217?228.Cornelis S. van Der Hooft, Miriam C. J. M. Sturken-boom, Kees van Grootheest, Herre J. Kingma, andBruno H. Ch.
Stricker.
2006.
Adverse drugreaction-related hospitalisations: a nationwide studyin The Netherlands.
Drug Safety, 29(2):161?168.William E. Winkler.
1999.
The state of record linkageand current research problems.World Health Organization.
1966. International DrugMonitoring: The Role of the Hospital.125
