Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 127?131,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe unified annotation of syntax and discoursein the Copenhagen Dependency TreebanksMatthias Buch-Kromann I?rn KorzenCenter for Research and Innovation in Translation and Translation TechnologyCopenhagen Business SchoolAbstractWe propose a unified model of syntax and dis-course in which text structure is viewed as atree structure augmented with anaphoric rela-tions  and  other  secondary  relations.
We  de-scribe how the model accounts  for discourseconnectives  and  the  syntax-discourse-seman-tics interface.
Our model is dependency-based,ie, words are the basic building blocks in ouranalyses.
The  analyses  have  been  appliedcross-linguistically in the Copenhagen Depen-dency  Treebanks,  a  set  of  parallel  treebanksfor Danish, English, German, Italian, and Spa-nish which are currently being annotated withrespect  to  discourse,  anaphora,  syntax,  mor-phology, and translational equivalence.1 IntroductionThe Copenhagen Dependency Treebanks, CDT,consist of five parallel open-source treebanks forDanish, English, German, Italian, and Spanish.1The treebanks are  annotated manually  with re-spect  to  syntax,  discourse,  anaphora,  morpho-logy, as well as translational equivalence (wordalignment) between the Danish source text andthe target texts in the four other languages.The treebanks build on the syntactic annota-tion  in  the  100,000-word  Danish  DependencyTreebank  (Kromann  2003)  and  Danish-EnglishParallel  Dependency  Treebank  (Buch-Kromannet al 2007).
Compared to these treebanks, whichare  only  annotated  for  syntax  and  word  align-ment,  the new treebanks are also annotated fordiscourse,  anaphora,  and  morphology,  and  thesyntax annotation has been revised with a muchmore fine-grained set of adverbial relations and anumber  of  other  adjustments.
The  underlyingDanish  PAROLE  text  corpus  (Keson  andNorling-Christensen  1998)  consists  of  a  broadmixture of 200-250 word excerpts from general-purpose texts.2 The texts were translated into the1The treebanks, the annotation manual, and the relation hier-archy can be downloaded from the web site:http://code.google.com/p/copenhagen-dependency-treebank2In practice, the use of text excerpts has not been a problemfor our discourse annotation: we mainly annotate text ex-other languages by professional translators whohad the target language as their native language.The final treebanks are planned to consist ofapproximately 480 fully annotated parallel textsfor Danish and English, and a subset of approx-imately  300  fully  annotated  parallel  texts  forGerman, Italian, and Spanish, with a total of ap-proximately 380,000 (2?100,000 + 3?60,000) an-notated word or punctuation tokens  in  the fivetreebanks  in  total.
So  far,  the  annotators  havemade complete draft annotations for 67% of thetexts for syntax, 40% for word alignments, 11%for discourse and anaphora, and 3% for morpho-logy.
The annotation will be completed in 2010.In this paper, we focus on how the CDT tree-banks are annotated with respect  to syntax anddiscourse,  and largely ignore  the  annotation  ofanaphora, morphology, and word alignments.
Insections 2 and 3, we present the syntax and dis-course annotation in the CDT.
In section 4, wepresent our account of discourse connectives.
Insection 5, we briefly discuss the syntax-discour-se-semantics  interface,  and  some  criticismsagainst tree-based theories of discourse.2 The syntax annotation of the CDTThe syntactic annotation of the CDT treebanks isbased on the linguistic principles outlined in thedependency  theory  Discontinuous  Grammar(Buch-Kromann 2006) and the syntactic annota-tion  principles  described  in  Kromann  (2003),Buch-Kromann et al (2007), and Buch-Kromannet al(2009).
All linguistic relations are represen-ted as  directed labelled relations between wordsor morphemes.
The model operates with a prima-ry dependency tree structure in which each wordor morpheme is assumed to act as a complementor adjunct to another word or morpheme, calledthe  governor (or  head), except for the top nodecerpts  that  have a  coherent discourse structure,  which in-cludes 80% of the excerpts in our text corpus.
Moreover,given the upper limit on the corpus size that we can affordto annotate, small text excerpts allow our corpus to have adiversity in text type and genre that may well offset the the-oretical disadvantage of working with reduced texts.127of the sentence or unit, typically the finite verb.This structure is augmented with secondary rela-tions,  e.g.,  between  non-finite  verb  forms  andtheir  subjects,  and  in  antecedent-anaphor  rela-tions.
Primary  relations  are  drawn  above  thenodes and secondary below, all with directed ar-rows pointing from governor to dependent.
Therelation label is written at the arrow tip, or in themiddle of the arrow if a word has more than oneincoming arrow.Figure 1.
Primary dependency tree (top) and sec-ondary relations (bottom) for the sentence ?It hadforced her to give up all she had worked for?.An example is given in Figure 1 above.
Here, thearrow from ?had2?
to ?It1?
identifies ?It?
as thesubject of ?had?, and the arrow from ?forced3?
to?to5?
identifies the phrase headed by ?to?
as theprepositional object of ?forced?.
Every word de-fines a unique phrase consisting of the words thatcan be reached from the head word by followingthe downward arrows in the primary tree.3 Forexample,  in  Figure  1,  ?worked11?
heads  thephrase ?worked11 for12?, which has a secondarynoun  object  nobj  in  ?all8?
;  ?had10?
heads  thephrase  ?she9 had10 worked11 for12?
;  and  ?It1?heads  the  phrase  ?It1?.
Examples  of  secondarydependencies  include  the  coreferential  relationbetween ?her4?
and ?she9?, and the anaphoric re-lation in Figure 2.
Part-of-speech functions arewritten in capital letters under each word.
The in-ventory of relations is described in detail in ourannotation manual (posted on the CDT web site).Dependency arrows are  allowed to  cross,  sodiscontinuous word orders such as topicalisationsand  extrapositions  do  not  require  special  treat-ment.
This is  exemplified by the discontinuousdependency tree in Figure 2, in which the relat-ive clause headed by ?was7?
has been extraposedfrom the direct object and placed after the timeadverbial ?today5?.43Because  of  this  isomorphism between  phrases  and  headwords,  a dependency tree can always be represented as aphrase-structure  tree  in  which every phrase  has  a  uniquelexical head; the resulting phrase-structure tree is allowed tocontain crossing branches.4In our current syntax annotation, we analyze the initial con-nective or conjunction as the head of the subordinate clause;Figure 2.
Primary dependency tree and second-ary relations for the sentence ?We discussed abook today which was written by Chomsky?.Buch-Kromann (2006) provides a detailed theoryof how the dependency structure can be used toconstruct a word-order structure which providesfine-grained control over the linear order of thesentence,  and  how  the  dependency  structureprovides an interface to compositional semanticsby determining a unique functor-argument struc-ture given a particular modifier scope (ie, a spe-cification of the order in which the adjuncts areapplied in the meaning construction).53 The discourse annotation of the CDTJust like sentence structures can be seen as de-pendency structures that link up the words andmorphemes  within  a  sentence  (or,  more  preci-sely, the phrases headed by these words), so dis-course structures can be viewed as dependencystructures that link up the words and morphemeswithin an entire discourse.
In Figures 1 and 2, thetop  nodes  of  the  analysed  sentences  (the  onlywords  without  incoming  arrows)  are  the  finiteverbs  ?had2?
and ?discussed2?
respectively, andthese are shown in boldface.
Basically, the CDTdiscourse annotation consists in linking up eachsuch sentence top node with its nucleus (under-stood as the unique word within another sentencethat  is  deemed  to  govern  the  relation)  and  la-belling the relations between the two nodes.The inventory of discourse relations in CDT isdescribed in the CDT manual.
It borrows heavilyfrom other  discourse  frameworks,  in  particularRhetorical  Structure  Theory,  RST  (Mann  andThompson,  1987;  Tabaoda  and  Mann,  2006;Carlson  et  al,  2001)  and  the  Penn  DiscourseTreebank,  PDTB  (Webber  2004;  Dinesh  et  al.,2005,  Prasad  et  al.,  2007,  2008),  as  well  as(Korzen,  2006,  2007),  although  the  inventoryhad  to  be  extended  to  accommodate  the  greatin relative clauses, the relative verb functions as the head,i.e., the arrow goes from ?a (book)?
to ?was (written)?.5In terms of their formal semantics, complements functionas arguments to their governor, whereas adjuncts function asmodifiers; i.e., semantically, the governor (type X) acts asan argument with the modifier (type X/X) as its functor.128variety  of  text  types  in  the  CDT corpus  otherthan news stories.
The inventory allows relationnames to be formed as disjunctions or conjunc-tions of  simple relation names,  to specify mul-tiple relations or ambiguous alternatives.One  of  the  most  important  differences  be-tween the CDT framework and other discourseframeworks lies in the way texts are segmented.In particular, CDT uses words as the basic build-ing blocks in the discourse structure, while mostother discourse frameworks use clauses as theiratomic  discourse  units,  including  RST,  PDTB,GraphBank  (Wolf  and  Gibson,  2005),  and  thePottsdam  Commentary  Corpus,  PCC  (Stede2009).6 This allows the nucleus and satellite in adiscourse  relation  to  be  identified  precisely  bymeans of their head words, as in the example (1)below from the CDT corpus, where the secondparagraph is analyzed as an elaboration of the de-verbal noun phrase ?their judgment?
(words thatare included in our condensed CDT analysis inFigure  4  are  indicated  with  boldface  and  sub-scripted with numbers that identify them):6As noted by Carlson and Marcu (2001), the boundary be-tween  syntax  and  discourse  is  rather  unclear:  the  samemeaning can be expressed in a continuum of ways that ran-ge from clear discourse constructions (?He laughed.
Thatannoyed me.?)
to clear syntactic constructions (?His laughannoyed me.?).
Moreover, long discourse units may func-tion  as  objects  of  attribution  verbs  in  direct  or  indirectspeech, or as parenthetical remarks embedded within an oth-erwise normal sentence.
CDT's use of words as basic build-ing blocks,  along with a primary tree structure that  spanssyntax and discourse, largely eliminates these problems.
(1) Two convicted executives of the July 6 Bank ap?pealed1 their2 judgment  on  the  spot  from  theCopenhagen Municipal Court with a demand foracquittal.
The prosecuting authority has3 also re-served the possibility of appeal.The chairman of the board received4 a year injail and a fine of DKK one million for fraudulentabuse of authority [?].
The bank?s director  re?ceived5 6  months  in  jail  and  a  fine of  DKK90,000.
(Text 0531)The full CDT analysis of (1) is given in Figure 3,a more readable condensed version in Figure 4.The  last  sentence  of  the  first  paragraph,  ?Theprosecuting authority has3 also reserved the pos-sibility of appeal?, is a conjunct to the first sen-tence, and its top node ?has3?
is linked to the topnode of the first sentence, ?appealed1?.
The slashafter a relation name indicates an explicit or im-plicit discourse connective used by the annotat-ors to support their choice of relation type.As  in  CDT's  syntax annotation,  the  primarysyntax and discourse relations must form a treethat spans all the words in the text, possibly sup-plemented  by  secondary  relations  that  encodeanaphoric relations and other secondary depen-dencies.
Apart from this, CDT does not place anyrestrictions on the relations; in particular, a wordFigure 4.
Condensed version of Figure 3.Figure 3.
The full CDT analysis of (1) wrt.
syntax, discourse, and anaphora.129may  function  as  nucleus  for  several  differentsatellites, discourse relations may join non-adja-cent clauses, and are allowed to cross; and sec-ondary  discourse  relations  are  used  to  accountfor the distinction between story line level  andspeech level in attributions.4 Discourse connectivesDiscourse connectives play a prominent role inPDTB, and inspire the analysis of connectives inCDT.
However, there are important  differencesin analysis, which affect the way discourse struc-tures are construed.
In a construction of the form?X C Y?
where  X and  Y are clauses and  C is adiscourse  connective  (such  as  ?because?,  ?sin-ce?, ?when?
), three dependency analyses suggestthemselves, as summarized in Table 5.Head Conjunction MarkerSyntaxSemantics C'(X',Y') [C'(Y')] (X') [Y'(C')] (X')Table 5.
Three analyses of discourse connectives.When analyzed as the head of the construction,C takes X and Y as its (discourse) complements;semantically, the meaning  C'  of  C acts as func-tor,  and the meanings  X',Y'  of  X,Y act as argu-ments of  C'.
When analyzed as a subordinatingconjunction, C subcategorizes for Y and modifiesX;  semantically,  C'  computes  a  meaning  C'(Y')from  Y',  which acts as functor with  X'  as argu-ment.
Finally, analyzed as a marker,  C modifiesY which in turn modifies  X; semantically,  Y' se-lects its meaning  Y'(C')  based on the marker  C'(i.e., the marker merely helps disambiguate  Y');Y'(C') then acts as functor with argument X'.The three  analyses  are  markedly different  interms  of  their  headedness,  but  quite  similar  interms of their semantics.
CDT opts for the mark-er analysis, with the obvious benefit that there isno need to postulate the presence of a phonetic-ally  empty  head  for  implicit  connectives.
Thisanalysis also implies that since discourse markersalways modify the satellite, explicit and implicitdiscourse markers can be used to determine thediscourse relation and its direction.It is interesting that almost all theories of dis-course structure, including RST, PDTB, Graph-Bank, PCC, and the dependency-based discourseanalysis  proposed by Mladov?
(2008),  seem toanalyze connectives as heads  ?
even in the casewhere  C+Y is an adverbial clause modifying X,where virtually all mainstream theories of syntaxopt  for  one of  the  two other  analyses.
Perhapscurrent  theories  of  discourse  structure  perceivediscourse structure as a semantic rather than syn-tactic structure.
In any case, it  is not clear thatthis is the most fruitful analysis.
A clear distinc-tion  between  syntactic  structure  and  semanticstructure has proved crucial to the understandingof headedness in syntax (e.g.
Croft 1995, Man-ning 1995), and it is one of the hardwon insightsof syntax that semantic centrality or prominenceis not directly reflected in the syntactic surfacestructure.
Something  similar  might  be  true  fordiscourse structure as well.5 Syntax?discourse?semantics interfaceCDT models discourse structure as a primary de-pendency tree supplemented by secondary rela-tions.
We believe that a tree-based view of dis-course  provides  many important  benefits,  mostimportantly a clear interface to syntax and com-positional semantics.
There has been several at-tempts to refute the tree hypothesis on empiricalgrounds,  though,  including  Wolf  and  Gibson(2005), Prasad et al(2005), Lee et al(2008), andStede (2009),  who have  put  forward importantcriticisms.
Our  framework  addresses  many  ofthese  objections,  including  the  many  problemsrelated to attribution verbs,  which do require acomplicated  treatment  in  our  framework  withsecondary dependencies.
A full discussion of thistopic is, however, beyond the scope of this paper.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we have presented  a dependency-based view of  discourse  and syntax annotationwhere the syntax and discourse relations in a textform a primary dependency tree structure linkingall the words in the text, supplemented by ana-phoric relations and other secondary dependen-cies.
The framework forms the basis for the an-notation  of  syntax,  discourse,  and  anaphora  inthe Copenhagen Dependency Treebanks.
In fu-ture  papers,  we will  address  some of  the criti-cisms  that  have  been  raised  against  tree-basedtheories of discourse.7 AcknowledgmentsThis  work  was  supported  by  a  grant  from theDanish  Research  Council  for  the  Humanities.Thanks to Bonnie Webber, Henrik H?eg M?ller,Per Anker Jensen, Peter Colliander, and our threereviewers for their valuable commments.130ReferencesMatthias Buch-Kromann 2006.
Discontinuous Gram?mar.
A dependency?based model of human parsingand language learning.
Copenhagen: CopenhagenBusiness School.Matthias  Buch-Kromann,  I?rn  Korzen,  and  HenrikH?eg M?ller.
2009.
Uncovering the ?lost?
structureof  translations  with  parallel  treebanks.
Copen?hagen Studies in Language 38: 199-224.Matthias  Buch-Kromann,  J?rgen  Wedekind,  andJakob  Elming.
2007.
The  Copenhagen  Danish-English Dependency  Treebank v.  2.0.  http://code.-google.com/p/copenhagen-dependency-treebankLynn  Carlson  and  Daniel  Marcu.
2001.
DiscourseTagging Reference Manual.
ISI Technical  ReportISI-TR-545.Lynn Carlson, Daniel Marcu, and Mary Ellen Okur-owski.
2001.
Building a Discourse-Tagged Corpusin the Framework of Rhetorical Structure Theory.In  Proc.
of  the  2nd  SIGdial  Workshop  on  Dis?course  and  Dialogue.
Association  for  Computa-tional Linguistics: 1-10.William Croft.
1995.
What's  a  head?
In J.  Rooryckand L. Zaring (eds.).
Phrase Structure and the Lex?icon.
Kluwer.Nikhil  Dinesh,  Alan  Lee, Eleni  Miltsakaki,  RashmiPrasad, Aravind Joshi, and Bonnie Webber.
2005.Attribution and the (Non-)Alignment of Syntacticand Discourse Arguments of Connectives.
Proc.
ofthe Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus AnnotationII: Pie in the Sky, pp.
29-36.Britt  Keson and Ole Norling-Christensen.
1998.
PA-ROLE-DK.
The Danish Society for Language andLiterature.I?rn Korzen.
2006.
Endocentric and Exocentric Lan-guages  in  Translation.
Perspectives:  Studies  inTranslatology, 13 (1): 21-37.I?rn Korzen.
2007.
Linguistic typology, text structureand appositions.
In I. Korzen, M. Lambert, H. Vas-siliadou.
Langues d?Europe, l?Europe des langues.Croisements linguistiques.
Scolia 22: 21-42.Matthias T. Kromann.
2003.
The Danish DependencyTreebank and the DTAG treebank tool.
In Proc.
ofTreebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT 2003), 14?15 November, V?xj?.
217?220.Alan Lee, Rashmi Prasad, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber 2008.
Departures from Tree Structures inDiscourse:  Shared  Arguments  in  the  Penn  Dis-course Treebank.
Proceedings of the Constraints inDiscourse III Workshop.Willliam C.  Mann and  Sandra  A.  Thompson 1987.Rhetorical Structure Theory.
A Theory of TextOrganization.
ISI: Information Sciences Institute,Los Angeles, CA, ISI/RS-87-190, 1-81.Christopher D. Manning.
1995.
Dissociating functor-argument  structure from surface  phrase  structure:the relationship of HPSG Order Domains to LFG.Ms., Carnegie Mellon University.Lucie Mladov?,  ?arka Zik?nov?, and Eva Haji?ov?.2008.
From  Sentence  to  Discourse:  Building  anAnnotation Scheme for Discourse Based on PragueDependency Treebank.
In  Proc.
6th InternationalConference  on  Language Resources  and  Evalua?tion (LREC 2008).Rashmi Prasad, Eleni Miltsakaki, Nikhil Dinesh, AlanLee,  Aravind  Joshi,  Livio  Robaldo,  and  BonnieWebber.
2007.
The Penn Discourse TreeBank 2.0.Annotation  Manual.
The  PDTB Research  Group.http://  www.seas.upenn.edu/~pdtb/PDTBAPI/pdtb-anno  -tation-manual.pdfRashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Milt-sakaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber.
2008.
The Penn Discourse TreeBank 2.0.In Proc.
6th Int.
Conf.
on Language Resources andEvaluation, Marrakech, Morocco.Manfred  Stede.
2008.
Disambiguating  RhetoricalStructure.
Research  on  Language  and  Computa?tion (6), pp.
311-332..Maite Taboada and William C. Mann.
2006a.
Rhetori-cal  Structure  Theory:  looking  back  and  movingahead.
Discourse Studies 8/3/423.Maite Taboada and William C. Mann.
2006b.
Appli-cations of  Rhetorical Structure Theory.
DiscourseStudies 8/4/567.
http://dis.sagepub.comBonnie  Webber.
2004.
D-LTAG:  extending  lexical-ized TAG to discourse.
Cognitive Science 28: 751-779.Bonnie Webber.
2006.
Accounting for Discourse Re-lation: Constituency and Dependency.
M. Dalrym-ple (ed.).
Festschrift for Ron Kaplan.
CSLI Publi-cations.Florian Wolf and Edward Gibson 2005.
RepresentingDiscourse  Coherence:  A  Corpus-Based  Study.Computational Linguistics 31(2), 249-287.131
