Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Finding the Common Ground, ACL 2010, pages 18?21,Uppsala, Sweden, 16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsOn the Role of NLP in LinguisticsDipti Misra SharmaLanguage Technologies Research CentreIIIT-H, Hyderabad, Indiadipti@iiit.ac.inAbstractThis paper summarizes some of the appli-cations of NLP techniques in various lin-guistic sub-fields, and presents a few ex-amples that call for a deeper engagementbetween the two fields.1 IntroductionThe recent success of data-driven approaches inNLP has raised important questions as to what rolelinguistics must now seek to play in further ad-vancing the field.
Perhaps, it is also time to posethe same question from the other direction: Asto how NLP techniques can help linguists makeinformed decisions?
And how can the advancesmade in one field be applied to the other?Although, there has been some work on in-corporating NLP techniques for linguistic field-work and language documentation (Bird, 2009),the wider use of NLP in linguistic studies is stillfairly limited.
However, it is possible to deepenthe engagement between the two fields in a num-ber of possible areas (as we shall see in the follow-ing sections), and gain new insights even duringthe formulation of linguistic theories and frame-works.2 Historical Linguistics and LinguisticTypologyComputational techniques have been successfullyused to classify languages and to generate phylo-genetic trees.
This has been tried not just withhandcrafted word lists (Atkinson et al, 2005;Atkinson and Gray, 2006; Huelsenbeck et al,2001) or syntactic data (Barbac?on et al, 2007) butwith lists extracted from written corpus with com-parable results (Rama and Singh, 2009; Singh andSurana, 2007).
These techniques are inspired fromthe work in computational phylogenetics, whichwas aimed at constructing evolutionary trees ofFigure 1: Phylogenetic tree using feature n-gramsbiological species.
Constructing a phylogenetictree for languages usually requires the calcula-tion of distances between pairs of languages (usu-ally based on word lists).
These distances arethen given as input to a computational phyloge-netic algorithm.
Their successful use for lan-guages has opened the possibility of using compu-tational techniques for studying historical linguis-tics.
They have already been used for estimatingdivergence times of language families (Atkinsonet al, 2005).
Figure 1 shows a phylogenetic treecreated using feature n-grams (Rama and Singh,2009).Another area for the application of NLP tech-niques is language typology.
For example, lin-guistic similarity and its estimation can be seen asfundamental ideas in NLP.
The systematic studyof different kinds of linguistic similarity offersinsights towards the theoretical studies of lan-guages (Singh, 2010).
In brief, the typology oflinguistic similarity for computational purposesis related to linguistic levels (depth), differencesamong languages (linguality) and linguistic units(granularity).
Thus, language can be seen as asystem of symbols whose meanings are defined18in terms of their estimated similarity and distancewith other symbols.
Can this, together with whatCognitive Linguists have been studying (Robin-son and Ellis, 2008), which also involves linguisticsimilarity, often directly, have some relevance forlinguists?3 Lexical Correspondence and LinguisticUnitsA further case in point is lexical correspondenceacross languages, which poses a problem forcross-lingual and multilingual applications.
Toaddress this and some other issues, a linguisticunit that behaves similarly across languages canbe conceptualized.
Such a unit, may includemorphological variation (inflectional and deriva-tional), compounds, multi word expressions etc.as in the Hindi and Telugu examples below:?
Single token content words: raama, raama(Ram); vah, atanu (he); vyakti, manishii (per-son) etc.?
Nouns with inflections: bacce, pillalu (chil-dren); bacce ko, pillalaki (to the child);raama se, raamudunundii (from Rama) etc.?
Verbs with inflections and tense, aspect andmodality (TAM) markers: karnaa-caahiye,cayiyaalii (should do); ho sakataa thaa,ayyiyedemo (could have happened) etc.?
Multi word expressions such as idioms,phrasal verbs and ?frozen expressions?
: pa-haaD toDanaa (breaking mountains); muNhaki khaana (getting defeated) etc.?
Compounds: jaati-prathaa (caste system);vesh-bhuushaaoN (dresses); akkaDaa-ikkaDaa (here and there) etc.This unit might, among other things, form thebasis of the structure of lexical resources, suchthat these resources have a direct correspondenceacross languages.
This can further facilitate com-parative study of languages (Singh, 2010).4 ApplicationsComputational techniques can also be used to de-sign tools and material for language learning andteaching.
Here games can play a useful role.
Al-though, a large number of online games are avail-able, most of them do not use the latest languageprocessing techniques.
Games can also be used togenerate language resources.The core idea in Human Computa-tion (Von Ahn, 2005) is that computers shoulddo what they do best and that humans seamlesslywork with them to do what computers cannot.One of the ways to merge the two is in the form ofcarefully designed games.Another insight comes from Machine Transla-tion.
More than any other sub-field in NLP, it isthe data-driven approaches to machine translationthat have proven to be particularly successful overthe past few years.
We have been exploring vari-ous approaches towards hybridization of our rule-based MT system.
Building the transfer-grammarof such systems is perhaps one of the most time-intensive tasks that involves careful analysis of testdata.
However, data driven techniques can cometo the aid of linguists in this case.
The recentwork on automatic acquisition of rules from par-allel corpora (Lavie et al, 2004) can help iden-tify a large number of common syntactic transfor-mations across a pair of languages, and help un-earth those transformations that might otherwisebe missed by a rule-based grammar.
They can befurther used to prioritize the application of rulesbased on the observed frequencies of certain syn-tactic transformations.5 NLP Tools and LinguisticsNLP techniques draw features from annotated cor-pora which are a rich linguistic resource.
How-ever, these corpora can also be used to extractgrammars, which on one hand feed the parserwith features (Xia, 2001), and on the other, actas a resource for linguistic studies.
For exam-ple, in Hindi dependency parsing the use of vib-hakti (post-positions) and TAM labels has provento be particularly useful even in the absence oflarge amounts of annotated corpora (Ambati et al,2010).
This also helped bring to light those fea-tures of the grammar that govern certain struc-ture choices and brought to notice some previouslyoverlooked linguistic constructions.
Thus, the re-sult is an iterative process, where both the gram-mar and the features are refined.Discourse Processing is another rapidly emerg-ing research area with considerable potential forinteraction and collaboration between NLP andLinguistics.
In the absence of fully developed the-ories/frameworks on both sides, focus on syner-19gizing research efforts in the two disciplines (suchas devising novel ways to empirically test linguis-tic hypotheses) from the initial stage itself, canyield a substantially richer account of Discourse.Linguistic theories are formalized based on ob-servations and abstractions of existing linguisticfacts.
These theories are then applied to vari-ous languages to test their validity.
However, lan-guages throw up new problems and issues beforetheoreticians.
Hence, there are always certain phe-nomena in languages which remain a point of dis-cussion since satisfactory solutions are not avail-able.
The facts of a language are accounted forby applying various techniques and methods thatare offered by a linguistic framework.
For exam-ple, syntactic diagnostics have been a fairly re-liable method of identifying/classifying construc-tion types in languages.
They work fairly well formost cases.
But in some cases even these tests failto classify certain elements.
For example, Indianlanguages show a highly productive use of com-plex predicates (Butt, 1995; Butt, 2003).
How-ever, till date there are no satisfactory methods todecide when a noun verb sequence is a ?complexpredicate?
and when a ?verb argument?
case.
Toquote an example from our experience while de-veloping a Hindi Tree Bank, annotators had to beprovided with guidelines to mark a N V sequenceas a complex predicate based on some linguistictests.
However, there are instances when the na-tive speaker/annotator is quite confident of a con-struction being a complex predicate, even thoughmost syntactic tests might not apply to it.Although, various theories provide frames toclassify linguistic patterns/items but none of themenables us to (at least to my knowledge) handle?transient/graded?
or rather ?evolving?
elements.So, as of now it looks like quite an arbitrary/ad-hoc approach whether to classify something as acomplex predicate or not.
In the above cited ex-ample, the decision is left to the annotator?s in-tuition, since linguists don?t agree on the classfi-cation of these elements or on a set of uniformtests either.
Can the insights gained from inter-annotator agreement further help theory refine thediagnostics used in these cases?
And can NLPtechniques or advanced NLP tools come to the aidof linguists here?
Perhaps in the form of tools thatcan (to an extent) help automate the application ofsyntactic diagnostics over large corpora?6 CollaborationsInterdisciplinary areas such as ComputationalLinguistics/NLP need a much broader collabo-ration between linguists and computer scientists.Experts working within their respective fieldstend to be deeply grounded in their approachestowards particular problems.
Also, they tendto speak different ?languages?.
Therefore, itbecomes imperative that efforts be made tobridge the gaps in communication between thetwo disciplines.
This problem is all the moreacute in India, since the separation of disciplineshappens at a very early stage.
Objectives, goals,methods and training are so different that startinga communication line proves to be very difficult.Thus, it is important for those people who havesynthesised the knowledge of the two disciplinesto a large degree, to take the lead and helpestablish the initial communication channels.
Ourown experiences while devising common tagsetsfor Indian languages, made us realize the needfor both linguistic and computational perspectivestowards such problems.
While a linguist?s instinctis to look for exceptions in the grammar (or anyformalism), a computer scientist tends to look forrules that can be abstracted away and modeled.However, at the end, both ways of looking at datahelp us make informed decisions.AcknowledgementsMany thanks to Dr. Rajeev Sangal, Anil KumarSingh, Arafat Ahsan, Bharath Ambati, Rafiya Be-gum, Samar Husain and Sudheer Kolachina for thediscussions and inputs.ReferencesB.R.
Ambati, S. Husain, J. Nivre, and R. Sangal.
2010.On the role of morphosyntactic features in Hindi de-pendency parsing.
In The First Workshop on Sta-tistical Parsing of Morphologically Rich Languages(SPMRL 2010), page 94.QD Atkinson and RD Gray.
2006.
How old is theIndo-European language family?
Progress or moremoths to the flame.
Phylogenetic Methods and thePrehistory of Languages (Forster P, Renfrew C, eds),pages 91?109.Q.
Atkinson, G. Nicholls, D. Welch, and R. Gray.2005.
From words to dates: water into wine, math-emagic or phylogenetic inference?
Transactions ofthe Philological Society, 103(2):193?219.20S.
Bird.
2009.
Natural language processing andlinguistic fieldwork.
Computational Linguistics,35(3):469?474.M.
Butt.
1995.
The structure of complex predicates inUrdu.
Center for the Study of Language and Infor-mation.M.
Butt.
2003.
The light verb jungle.
In Workshop onMulti-Verb Constructions.
Citeseer.J.P.
Huelsenbeck, F. Ronquist, R. Nielsen, and J.P.Bollback.
2001.
Bayesian inference of phylogenyand its impact on evolutionary biology.
Science,294(5550):2310?2314.A.
Lavie, K. Probst, E. Peterson, S. Vogel, L. Levin,A.
Font-Llitjos, and J. Carbonell.
2004.
A trainabletransfer-based machine translation approach for lan-guages with limited resources.
In Proceedings ofWorkshop of the European Association for MachineTranslation.
Citeseer.Taraka Rama and Anil Kumar Singh.
2009.
Frombag of languages to family trees from noisy corpus.In Proceedings of the Conference on Recent Ad-vances in Natural Language Processing, Borovets,Bulgaria.Peter Robinson and Nick Ellis.
2008.
Handbook ofCognitive Linguistics and Second Language Acqui-sition.
Routledge, New York and London.Anil Kumar Singh and Harshit Surana.
2007.
Can cor-pus based measures be used for comparative studyof languages?
In Proceedings of the Ninth Meet-ing of ACL Special Interest Group on ComputationalPhonology and Morphology, Prague, Czech Repub-lic.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Anil Kumar Singh.
2010.
Modeling and Application ofLinguistic Similarity.
Ph.D. thesis, IIIT, Hyderabad,India.Luis Von Ahn.
2005.
Human computation.
Ph.D. the-sis, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
Adviser-Blum, Manuel.Fei Xia.
2001.
Automatic Grammar Generation fromTwo Different Perspectives.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Pennsylvania.21
