Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 28?36,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsScaling up Biomedical Event Extraction to the Entire PubMedJari Bjo?rne?, ,1,2 Filip Ginter,?,1 Sampo Pyysalo,?,3 Jun?ichi Tsujii,3,4 Tapio Salakoski1,21Department of Information Technology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland2Turku Centre for Computer Science (TUCS), Turku, Finland3Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan4National Centre for Text Mining, University of Manchester, Manchester, UKjari.bjorne@utu.fi,ginter@cs.utu.fi,smp@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jptsujii@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp,tapio.salakoski@it.utu.fiAbstractWe present the first full-scale event extrac-tion experiment covering the titles and ab-stracts of all PubMed citations.
Extractionis performed using a pipeline composedof state-of-the-art methods: the BANNERnamed entity recognizer, the McClosky-Charniak domain-adapted parser, and theTurku Event Extraction System.
We an-alyze the statistical properties of the re-sulting dataset and present evaluations ofthe core event extraction as well as nega-tion and speculation detection componentsof the system.
Further, we study in de-tail the set of extracted events relevantto the apoptosis pathway to gain insightinto the biological relevance of the result.The dataset, consisting of 19.2 million oc-currences of 4.5 million unique events,is freely available for use in research athttp://bionlp.utu.fi/.1 IntroductionThere has recently been substantial interest inevent models in biomedical information extraction(IE).
The expressive event representation capturesextracted knowledge as structured, recursivelynested, typed associations of arbitrarily many par-ticipants in specific roles.
The BioNLP?09 SharedTask on Event Extraction (Kim et al, 2009), thefirst large scale evaluation of biomedical eventextraction systems, drew the participation of 24groups and established a standard event represen-tation scheme and datasets.
The training and testdata of the Shared Task comprised 13,623 manu-ally annotated events in 1,210 PubMed citation ab-stracts, and on this data the top performing systemof Bjo?rne et al (2009; 2010b) achieved an overallF-score of 51.95% (Kim et al, 2009).
?Equal contribution by first three authors.The issue of the scalability and generalizationability of the introduced event extraction systemsbeyond the domain of the GENIA corpus on whichthe Shared Task was based has remained largelyan open question.
In a prior study, we have es-tablished on a 1% random sample of PubMed ti-tles and abstracts that the event extraction systemof Bjo?rne et al is able to scale up to PubMed-wide extraction without prohibitive computationaltime requirements, however, the actual extractionfrom the entire PubMed was left as a future work(Bjo?rne et al, 2010a).
Thus, the top-ranking eventextraction systems in the Shared Task have, in fact,not been used so far for actual mass-scale event ex-traction beyond the carefully controlled setting ofthe Shared Task itself.
Further, since an automatednamed entity recognition step was not part of theShared Task, the interaction of the event extrac-tion systems with gene/protein name recognizersremains largely unexplored as well.In this study, we address some of these ques-tions by performing a mass-scale event extractionexperiment using the best performing system1 ofthe Shared Task (Bjo?rne et al, 2009; Bjo?rne et al,2010b), and applying it to the entire set of titlesand abstracts of the nearly 18 million citations inthe 2009 distribution of PubMed.
The extractionresult, containing 19.2 million event occurrences,is the largest dataset of its type by several ordersof magnitude and arguably represents the state-of-the-art in automatic event extraction with respectto both accuracy and size.To support emerging community efforts in tasksthat build on event extraction output, such as eventnetwork refinement, hypothesis generation, path-way extraction, and others, we make the entireresulting dataset freely available for research pur-poses.
This allows researchers interested in ques-tions involving text mining, rather than initial in-1Available at http://bionlp.utu.fi/28Event type ExampleGene expression 5-LOX is expressed in leukocytesTranscription promoter associated with IL-4 genetranscriptionLocalization phosphorylation and nuclear translo-cation of STAT6Protein catabolism I kappa B-alpha proteolysis byphosphorylation.Phosphorylation BCL-2 was phosphorylated at theG(2)/M phaseBinding Bcl-w forms complexes with Bax andBakRegulation c-Met expression is regulated by MitfPositive regulation IL-12 induced STAT4 bindingNegative regulation DN-Rac suppressed NFAT activationTable 1: Targeted event types with brief examplestatements expressing an event of each type.
In theexamples, the word or words marked as triggeringthe presence of the event are shown in italics andevent participants underlined.
The event types aregrouped by event participants, with the first fivetypes taking one theme, binding events taking mul-tiple themes and the regulation types theme andcause participants.
Adapted from (Bjo?rne et al,2009).formation extraction, to make use of the many fa-vorable statistical properties of the massive datasetwithout having to execute the laborious and time-consuming event extraction pipeline.In the following, we describe the Shared Taskevent representation applied throughout this study,the event extraction pipeline itself, and a first setof analyzes of multiple aspects of the resultingdataset.2 Event extractionThe event extraction pipeline follows the model ofthe BioNLP?09 Shared Task in its representationof extracted information.
The primary extractiontargets are gene or gene product-related entitiesand nine fundamental biomolecular event types in-volving these entities (see Table 1 for illustration).Several aspects of the event representation, asdefined in the context of the Shared Task, differ-entiate the event extraction task from the body ofdomain IE studies targeting e.g.
protein?proteininteractions and gene?disease relations, includingprevious domain shared tasks (Ne?dellec, 2005;Krallinger et al, 2008).
Events can have an ar-bitrary number of participants with specified roles(e.g.
theme or cause), making it possible to cap-ture n-ary associations and statements where someparticipants occur in varying roles or are only oc-RegulationNNP NN VB NNP CC .conj_and><nn dobj><nsubj NNPProteinSTAT3 Phosphorylationphosphorylation Regulationinvolve ProteinVav and ProteinRac-1 .Cause>Cause><Themeevent detectionCBAdobj>named entity recognitionProteinSTAT3 phosphorylation involve ProteinVav and ProteinRac-1 .STAT3 phosphorylation involve Vav and Rac-1 .Ser(727) mayNNPappos> <auxMDSer(727) maySer(727) mayEntity<Theme<Site <ThemeRegulationProteinSTAT3 Phosphorylationphosphorylation involve ProteinVav and ProteinRac-1 .Cause>Cause><Themespeculation and negation detectionDSer(727) mayEntity<Theme<Site <ThemeRegulationSpecSpecSTAT3 phosphorylation involve Vav and Rac-1 .Ser(727) mayparsingFigure 1: Event extraction.
A multi-stage sys-tem produces an event graph for each sentence.Named entities are detected (A) using BANNER.Independently of named entity detection, sen-tences are parsed (B) to produce a dependencyparse.
Event detection (C) uses the named entitiesand the parse in predicting the trigger nodes andargument edges that form the events.
Finally, po-larity and certainty (D) are predicted for the gen-erated events.
Adapted from (Bjo?rne et al, 2009).casionally mentioned.
A further important prop-erty is that event participants can be other events,resulting in expressive, recursively nested struc-tures.
Finally, events are given GENIA Event on-tology types drawn from the community-standardGene Ontology (The Gene Ontology Consortium,2000), giving each event well-defined semantics.2.1 Event Extraction PipelineThe event extraction pipeline applied in this workconsists of three main processing steps: named en-tity recognition, syntactic parsing, and event ex-traction.
The process is illustrated in Figure 1.For named entity recognition, we use the BAN-NER system of Leaman and Gonzales (2008),which in its current release achieves results closeto the best published on the standard GENETAGdataset and was reported to have the best perfor-mance in a recent study comparing publicly avail-able taggers (Kabiljo et al, 2009).
Titles and ab-stracts of all 17.8M citations in the 2009 distribu-tion of PubMed are processed through the BAN-NER system.Titles and abstracts of PubMed citations inwhich at least one named entity was identified, and29which therefore contain a possible target for eventextraction, are subsequently split into sentencesusing a maximum-entropy based sentence splittertrained on the GENIA corpus (Kazama and Tsujii,2003) with limited rule-based post-processing forsome common errors.All sentences containing at least one namedentity are then parsed with the domain-adaptedMcClosky-Charniak parser (McClosky and Char-niak, 2008; McClosky, 2009), which has achievedthe currently best published performance on theGENIA Treebank (Tateisi et al, 2005).
The con-stituency parse trees are then transformed to thecollapsed-ccprocessed variant of the Stanford De-pendency scheme using the conversion tool2 intro-duced by de Marneffe et al (2006).Finally, events are extracted using the TurkuEvent Extraction System of Bjo?rne et al whichachieved the best performance in the BioNLP?09Shared Task and remains fully competitive witheven the most recent advances (Miwa et al, 2010).We use a recent publicly available revision of theevent extraction system that performs also extrac-tion of Shared Task subtask 2 and 3 information,providing additional event arguments relevant toevent sites and localization (site, atLoc, and toLocrole types in the Shared Task) as well as informa-tion on event polarity and certainty (Bjo?rne et al,2010b).2.2 Extraction result and computationalrequirementsNamed entity recognition using the BANNER sys-tem required in total roughly 1,800 CPU-hoursand resulted in 36,454,930 named entities identi-fied in 5,394,350 distinct PubMed citations.Parsing all 20,037,896 sentences with at leastone named entity using the McClosky-Charniakparser and transforming the resulting constituencytrees into dependency analyzes using the Stanfordconversion tool required about 5,000 CPU-hours,thus averaging 0.9 sec per sentence.
Even thoughvarious stability and scalability related problemswere met during the parsing process, we were ableto successfully parse 20,020,266 (99.91%) of allsentences.Finally, the event extraction step required ap-proximately 1,500 CPU-hours and resulted in19,180,827 event instances.
In total, the entire cor-2http://www-nlp.stanford.edu/downloads/lex-parser.shtmlpus of PubMed titles and abstracts was thus pro-cessed in roughly 8,300 CPU-hours, or, 346 CPU-days, the most time-consuming step by far beingthe syntactic parsing.We note that, even though the components usedin the pipeline are largely well-documented andmature, a number of technical issues directly re-lated to, or at least magnified by, the untypi-cally large dataset were met at every point of thepipeline.
Executing the pipeline was thus far froma trivial undertaking.
Due to the computational re-quirements of the pipeline, cluster computing sys-tems were employed at every stage of the process.2.3 EvaluationWe have previously evaluated the Turku EventExtraction System on a random 1% sample ofPubMed citations, estimating a precision of 64%for event types and arguments pertaining to sub-task 1 of the Shared Task (Bjo?rne et al, 2010a),which compares favorably to the 58% precisionthe system achieves on the Shared Task dataset it-self (Bjo?rne et al, 2009).To determine precision on subtasks 2 and 3on PubMed citations, we manually evaluate 100events with site and location arguments (sub-task 2) and 100 each of events predicted to bespeculated or negated (subtask 3).Subtask 2 site and location arguments aremostly external to the events they pertain to andtherefore were evaluated independently of theirparent event.
Their precision is 53% (53/100),comparable to the 58% precision established onthe BioNLP?09 Shared Task development set, us-ing the same parent-independent criterion.To estimate the precision of the negation detec-tion (subtask 3), we randomly select 100 eventspredicted to be negated.
Of these, 9 were incor-rect as events to such an extent that the correct-ness of the predicted negation could not be judgedand, among the remaining 91 events, the negationwas correctly predicted in 82% of the cases.
Sim-ilarly, to estimate the precision of speculation de-tection, we randomly select 100 events predictedto be speculated, of which 20 could not be judgedfor correctness of speculation.
Among the remain-ing 80, 88% were correctly predicted as specula-tive events.
The negations were mostly signalledby explicit statements such as is not regulated, andspeculation by statements, such as was studied,that defined the events as experimental questions.30For comparison, on the BioNLP?09 Shared Taskdevelopment set, for correctly predicted events,precision for negation examples was 83% (withrecall of 53%) and for speculation examples 77%(with recall of 51%).In the rest of this paper, we turn our attention tothe extraction result.3 Term-NE mappingAs the event types are drawn from the Gene On-tology and the original data on which the systemis trained has been annotated with reference to theGO definitions, the events targeted by the extrac-tion system have well-defined biological interpre-tations.
The meaning of complete event struc-tures depends also on the participating entities,which are in the primary event extraction task con-strained to be of gene/gene product (GGP) types,as annotated in the GENIA GGP corpus (Ohta etal., 2009a).
The simple and uniform nature ofthese entities makes the interpretation of completeevents straightforward.However, the semantics of the entities au-tomatically tagged in this work are somewhatmore openly defined.
The BANNER system wastrained on the GENETAG corpus, annotated for?gene/protein entities?
without differentiating be-tween different entity types and marking entitiesunder a broad definition that not only includesgenes and gene products but also related entitiessuch as gene promoters and protein complexes,only requiring that the tagged entities be specific(Tanabe et al, 2005).
The annotation criteria ofthe entities used to train the BANNER system aswell as the event extraction system also differ inthe extent of the marked spans, with GENIA GGPmarking the minimal name and GENETAG allow-ing also the inclusion of head nouns when a nameoccurs in modifier position.
Thus, for example, thelatter may annotate the spans p53 gene, p53 pro-tein, p53 promoter and p53 mutations in contextswhere the former would in each case mark onlythe substring p53.One promising future direction for the presenteffort is to refine the automatically extracted datainto an event network connected to specific entriesin gene/protein databases such as Entrez Gene andUniProt.
To achieve this goal, the resolution ofthe tagged entities can be seen to involve two re-lated but separate challenges.
First, identifyingthe specific database entries that are referred toRelation ExamplesEquivalent GGP gene, wild-type GGPClass-Subclass human GGP, HIV-1 GGPObject-VariantGGP-Isoform GGP isoformGGP-Mutant dominant-negative GGPGGP-Recombinant GGP expression plasmidGGP-Precursor GGP precursor, pro-GGPComponent-ObjectGGP-Amino acid GGP-Ile 729GGP-AA motif GGP NH2-terminalGGP-Reg.
element GGP proximal promoterGGP-Flanking region GGP 5?
upstream sequenceObject-ComponentGGP-Protein Complex GGP homodimersPlace-AreaGGP-Locus GGP lociMember-CollectionGGP-Group GGP family membersTable 2: Gene/gene product NE-term relationtypes with examples.
Top-level relations in the re-lation type hierarchy shown in bold, specific NEnames in examples replaced with GGP.
Intermedi-ate levels in the hierarchy and a number of minorrelations omitted.
Relation types judged to allowremapping (see text) underlined.by the genes/proteins named in the tagged enti-ties, and second, mapping from the events involv-ing automatically extracted terms to ones involv-ing the associated genes/proteins.
The first chal-lenge, gene/protein name normalization, is a well-studied task in biomedical NLP for which a num-ber of systems with promising performance havebeen proposed (Morgan and Hirschman, 2007).The second we believe to be novel.
In the follow-ing, we propose a method for resolving this task.We base the decision on how to map events ref-erencing broadly defined terms to ones referencingassociated gene/protein names in part on a recentlyintroduced dataset of ?static relations?
(Pyysalo etal., 2009) between named entities and terms (Ohtaet al, 2009b).
This dataset was created based onapproximately 10,000 cases where GGP NEs, asannotated in the GENIA GGP corpus (Ohta et al,2009a), were embedded in terms, as annotated inthe GENIA term corpus (Ohta et al, 2002).
Foreach such case, the relation between the NE andthe term was annotated using a set of introducedrelation types whose granularity was defined withreference to MeSH terms (see Table 2, Ohta et al,2009b).
From this data, we extracted prefix andsuffix strings that, when affixed to a GGP name,produced a term with a predictable relation (withinthe dataset) to the GGP.
Thus, for example, the31term GGPp53 protein p53p53 gene p53human serum albumin serum albuminwild-type p53 p53c-fos mRNA c-fosendothelial NO synthase NO synthaseMHC cl.
II molecules MHC cl.
IIhuman insulin insulinHIV-1 rev.transcriptase rev.transcriptasehepatic lipase lipasep24 antigen p24tr.
factor NF-kappaB NF-kappaBMHC molecules MHCPKC isoforms PKCHLA alleles HLARET proto-oncogene RETras oncogene rasSV40 DNA SV40EGFR tyrosine kinase EGFRTable 3: Examples of frequently applied map-pings.
Most frequent term for each mapping isshown.
Some mention strings are abbreviated forspace.Mentions TypesTotal 36454930 4747770Mapped 2212357 (6.07%) 547920 (11.54%)Prefix 430737 (1.18%) 129536 (2.73%)Suffix 1838646 (5.04%) 445531 (9.38%)Table 4: Statistics for applied term-GGP map-pings.
Tagged mentions and types (unique men-tions) shown separately.
Overall total given forreference, for mappings overall for any mappingshown and further broken down into prefix-stringand suffix-string based.prefix string ?wild-type?
was associated with theEquivalent relation type and the suffix string ?ac-tivation sequence?
with the GGP-Regulatory ele-ment type.
After filtering out candidates shorterthan 3 characters as unreliable (based on prelim-inary experiments), this procedure produced a setof 68 prefix and 291 suffix strings.To make use of the data for predicting relationsbetween GGP names and the terms formed by af-fixing a prefix or suffix string, it is necessary tofirst identify name-term pairs.
Candidates can begenerated simply by determining the prefix/suffixstrings occurring in each automatically tagged en-tity and assuming that what remains after remov-ing the prefixes and suffixes is a GGP name.
How-ever, this naive strategy often fails: while remov-ing ?protein?
from ?p53 protein?
correctly identi-fies ?p53?
as the equivalent GGP name, for ?cap-sid protein?
the result, ?capsid?
refers not to aGGP but to the shell of a virus ?
?protein?
is prop-erly part of the protein name.
To resolve this is-sue, we drew on the statistics of the automaticallytagged entities, assuming that if a prefix/suffixstring is not a fixed part of a name, the name willappear tagged also without that string.
As the tag-ging covers the entire PubMed, this is likely tohold for all but the very rarest GGP names.
Tocompensate for spurious hits introduced by tag-ging errors, we specifically required that to accepta candidate prefix/suffix string-name pair, the can-didate name should occur more frequently withoutthe prefix/suffix than with it.
As the dataset is verylarge, this simple heuristic often gives the right de-cision with secure margins: for example, ?p53?was tagged 117,835 times but ?p53 protein?
only11,677, while ?capsid?
was (erroneously) tagged7 times and ?capsid protein?
tagged 1939 times.A final element of the method is the definitionof a mapping to events referencing GGP NEs fromthe given events referencing terms, the NEs con-tained in the terms, and the NE-term relations.
Inthis work, we apply independently for each term asimple mapping based only on the relation types,deciding for each type whether replacing refer-ence to a term with reference to a GGP holdingthe given relation to the term preserves event se-mantics (to an acceptable approximation) or not.For the Equivalent relation this holds by defini-tion.
We additionally judged all Class-Subclassand Component-Object relations to allow remap-ping (accepting e.g.
P1 binds part of P2 ?
P1binds P2) as well as selected Object-Variant rela-tions (see Table 2).
For cases judged not to allowremapping, we simply left the event unmodified.Examples of frequently applied term-GGP map-pings are shown in Table 3, and Table 4 showsthe statistics of the applied mappings.
We findthat suffix-based mappings apply much more fre-quently than prefix-based, perhaps reflecting alsothe properties of the source dataset.
Overall, thenumber of unique tagged types is reduced by over10% by this procedure.
It should be noted that theapplicability of the method could likely be consid-erably extended by further annotation of NE-termrelations in the dataset of Ohta et al (2009b): thecurrent data is all drawn from the GENIA corpus,drawn from the subdomain of transcription factorsin human blood cells, and its coverage of PubMedis thus far from exhaustive.324 Event recurrenceGiven a dataset of events extracted from the en-tire PubMed, we can study whether, and to whatextent, events are re-stated in multiple PubMed ci-tations.
This analysis may shed some light ?
nat-urally within the constraints of an automaticallyextracted dataset rather than gold-standard anno-tation ?
on the often (informally) discussed hy-pothesis that a high-precision, low recall systemmight be a preferred choice for large-scale extrac-tion as the lower recall would be compensated bythe redundancy of event statements in PubMed.In order to establish event recurrence statistics,that is, the number of times a given event is re-peated in the corpus, we perform a limited normal-ization of tagged entities consisting of the Term-NE mapping presented in Section 3 followedby lowercasing and removal of non-alphanumericcharacters.
Two named entities are then consid-ered equal if their normalized string representa-tions are equal.
For instance, the two names IL-2 gene and IL2 would share the same normalizedform il2 and would thus be considered equal.For the purpose of recurrence statistics, twoevents are considered equal if their types are equal,and all their Theme and Cause arguments, whichcan be other events, are recursively equal as well.A canonical order of arguments is used in the com-parison, thus e.g.
the following events are consid-ered equal:regulation(Cause:A, Theme:binding(Theme:B, Theme:C))regulation(Theme:binding(Theme:C, Theme:B), Cause:A)In total, the system extracted 19,180,827 instancesof 4,501,883 unique events.
On average, anevent is thus stated 4.2 times.
The distributionis, however, far from uniform and exhibits the?long tail?
typical of natural language phenom-ena, with 3,484,550 (77%) of events being single-ton occurrences.
On the other hand, the most fre-quent event, localization(Theme:insulin), occursas many as 59,821 times.
The histogram of thenumber of unique events with respect to their oc-currence count is shown in Figure 2.The total event count consists mostly of sim-ple one-argument events.
The arguably moreinteresting category of events that involve atleast two different named entities constitutes2,064,278 instances (11% of the 19.2M total)of 1,565,881 unique events (35% of the 4.5Mtotal).
Among these complex events, recur-101001K10K100K1M1  10  100 1K 10KUnique events withgivenoccurrencecountEvent occurrence countFigure 2: Number of unique events (y-axis) with agiven occurrence count (x-axis).R P N L B E T C HR 561 173 128 42 63 83 30 16 17P 173 1227 192 58 99 143 39 20 23N 128 192 668 46 73 98 31 17 18L 42 58 46 147 57 75 25 15 15B 63 99 73 57 1023 134 35 20 21E 83 143 98 75 134 705 49 22 24T 30 39 31 25 35 49 79 11 11C 16 20 17 15 20 22 11 39 7H 17 23 18 15 21 24 11 7 49Table 5: Event type confusion matrix.
Each el-ement contains the number of unique events, inthousands, that are equal except for their type.The matrix is symmetric and its diagonal sums to4,5M, the total number of extracted unique events.The event types are (R)egulation, (P)ositiveregulation, (N)egative regulation, (L)ocalization,(B)inding, gene (E)xpression, (T)ranscription,protein (C)atabolism, and p(H)osphorylation.rence is thus considerably lower, an event be-ing stated on average 1.3 times.
The mostfrequent complex event, with 699 occurrences,is positive-regulation(Cause:GnRG,Theme:local-ization(Theme:LH)), reflecting the well-knownfact that GnRG causes the release of LH, a hor-mone important in human reproduction.To gain an additional broad overview of thecharacteristics of the extracted events, we com-pute an event type confusion matrix, shown in Ta-ble 5.
In this matrix, we record for each pair ofevent types T1 and T2 the number of unique eventsof type T1 for which an event of type T2 can befound such that, apart for the type difference, theevents are otherwise equal.
While e.g.
a posi-tive regulation-negative regulation pair is at leastunusual, in general these event pairs do not sug-gest extraction errors: for instance the existence33of the event expression(Theme:A) does not in anyway prevent the existence of the event localiza-tion(Theme:A), and regulation subsumes positive-regulation.
Nevertheless, Table 5 shows a clearpreference for a single type for the events.5 Case Study: The apoptosis pathwayIn this section, we will complement the precedingbroad statistical overview of the extracted eventswith a detailed study of a specific pathway, theapoptosis pathway, determining how well the ex-tracted events cover its interactions (Figure 3).To create an event network, the events must belinked through their protein arguments.
In addi-tion to the limited named entity normalization in-troduced in Section 4, we make use of a list of syn-onyms for each protein name in the apoptosis path-way, obtained manually from protein databases,such as UniProt.
Events whose protein argumentscorrespond to any of these known synonyms arethen used for reconstructing the pathway.The apoptosis pathway consists of several over-lapping signaling routes and can be defined ondifferent levels of detail.
To have a single, ac-curate and reasonably high-level definition, webased our pathway on a concisely presentable sub-set of the KEGG human apoptosis pathway (entryhsa04210) (Kanehisa and Goto, 2000).
As seenin Figure 3, the extracted dataset contains eventsbetween most interaction partners in the pathway.The constructed pathway also shows that the ex-tracted events are not necessarily interactions inthe physical sense.
Many ?higher level?
eventsare extracted as well.
For example, the extracel-lular signaling molecule TNF?
can trigger path-ways leading to the activation of Nf-?B.
Althoughthe two proteins are not likely to interact directly,it can be said that TNF?
upregulates NF-?B, anevent actually extracted by the system.
Such state-ments of indirect interaction co-exist with state-ments of actual, physical interactions in the eventdata.6 ConclusionsIn this paper, we have presented the result of pro-cessing the entire, unabridged set of PubMed titlesand abstracts with a state-of-the-art event extrac-tion pipeline as a new resource for text mining inthe biomedical domain.
The extraction result ar-guably represents the best event extraction outputachievable with currently available tools.The primary contribution of this work is the setof over 19M extracted event instances of 4.5Munique events.
Of these, 2.1M instances of 1.6Munique events involve at least two different namedentities.
These form an event network severalorders of magnitude larger than those previouslyavailable.
The data is intended to support re-search in biological hypothesis generation, path-way extraction, and similar higher-level text min-ing tasks.
With the network readily available in aneasy-to-process format under an open license, re-searchers can focus on the core tasks of text min-ing without the need to perform the tedious andcomputationally very intensive task of event ex-traction with a complex IE pipeline.In addition to the extracted events, we makereadily available the output of the BANNER sys-tem on the entire set of PubMed titles and abstractsas well as the parser output of the McClosky-Charniak domain-adapted parser (McClosky andCharniak, 2008; McClosky, 2009) further trans-formed to the Stanford Dependency representa-tion using the tools of de Marneffe et al (2006)for nearly all (99.91%) sentences with at least onenamed entity identified.
We expect this data to beof use for the development and application of sys-tems for event extraction and other BioNLP tasks,many of which currently make extensive use ofdependency syntactic analysis.
The generation ofthis data having been far from a trivial technicalundertaking, its availability as-is can be expectedto save substantial duplication of efforts in furtherresearch.A manual analysis of extracted events relevantto the apoptosis pathway demonstrates that theevent data can be used to construct detailed bio-logical interaction networks with reasonable accu-racy.
However, accurate entity normalization, inparticular taking into account synonymous names,seems to be a necessary prerequisite and remainsamong the most important future work directions.In the current study, we take first steps in this di-rection in the form of a term-NE mapping methodin event context.
The next step will be the applica-tion of a state-of-the-art named entity normaliza-tion system to obtain biological database identitiesfor a number of the named entities in the extractedevent network, opening possibilities for combin-ing the data in the network with other biologicalinformation.
A further practical problem to ad-dress will be that of visualizing the network and34evnnvvv vn e tn n vv nvvvnnnnnnnn nnnnn nnnnndnencvnvtnnvnvnnnvtenctnncvnnn e n vnnvndnnvn tnvvvnvtnte te n vetnvvnvvnvnn vvn vncnnvn vnncvnnvnvvnvvne vvnIL-1 TNF?
TRAIL Fas-LIL-1R TNF-R1 TRAIL-R FasFADDTRADDRIP1MyD88IRAKNIKIKKI?B?
NF-?BCASP10CASP8FLIPCASP3CASP7dioamayorgsrdapuaporrlpaopugugppTRAF2IAPdoiiraiiFigure 3: Extracted apoptosis event network.
Events shown in the figure are selected on theirprominence in the data or correspondence to known apoptosis interactions.
Events correspondingto KEGG apoptosis pathway interaction partners are highlighted with a light grey background.
Theevent types are (P)ositive regulation, (N)egative regulation, (R)egulation, gene (E)xpression, (B)inding,p(H)osphorylation, (L)ocalization and protein (C)atabolism.presenting the information in a biologically mean-ingful manner.The introduced dataset is freely available forresearch purposes at http://bionlp.utu.fi/.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the Academy ofFinland and by Grant-in-Aid for Specially Pro-moted Research (MEXT, Japan).
Computationalresources were provided by CSC ?
IT Center forScience, Ltd., a joint computing center for Finnishacademia and industry.
We thank Robert Leamanfor advance access and assistance with the newestrelease of BANNER.35ReferencesJari Bjo?rne, Juho Heimonen, Filip Ginter, Antti Airola,Tapio Pahikkala, and Tapio Salakoski.
2009.
Ex-tracting complex biological events with rich graph-based feature sets.
In Proceedings of the BioNLP2009 Workshop Companion Volume for Shared Task,pages 10?18, Boulder, Colorado.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Jari Bjo?rne, Filip Ginter, Sampo Pyysalo, Jun?ichi Tsu-jii, and Tapio Salakoski.
2010a.
Complex event ex-traction at PubMed scale.
In Proceedings of the 18thAnnual International Conference on Intelligent Sys-tems for Molecular Biology (ISMB 2010).
In press.Jari Bjo?rne, Juho Heimonen, Filip Ginter, Antti Airola,Tapio Pahikkala, and Tapio Salakoski.
2010b.
Ex-tracting contextualized complex biological eventswith rich graph-based feature sets.
ComputationalIntelligence.
In press.Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Bill MacCartney, andChristopher Manning.
2006.
Generating typed de-pendency parses from phrase structure parses.
InProceedings of LREC-06, pages 449?454.Renata Kabiljo, Andrew Clegg, and Adrian Shepherd.2009.
A realistic assessment of methods for extract-ing gene/protein interactions from free text.
BMCBioinformatics, 10(1):233.M.
Kanehisa and S. Goto.
2000.
KEGG: kyoto ency-clopedia of genes and genomes.
Nucleic Acids Res.,28:27?30, Jan.Jun?ichi Kazama and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2003.
Evalua-tion and extension of maximum entropy models withinequality constraints.
In Proceedings of the 2003Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 137?144.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Overview ofBioNLP?09 shared task on event extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop CompanionVolume for Shared Task, pages 1?9, Boulder, Col-orado.
ACL.Martin Krallinger, Florian Leitner, Carlos Rodriguez-Penagos, and Alfonso Valencia.
2008.
Overview ofthe protein-protein interaction annotation extractiontask of BioCreative II.
Genome Biology, 9(Suppl2):S4.R.
Leaman and G. Gonzalez.
2008.
BANNER: an exe-cutable survey of advances in biomedical named en-tity recognition.
Pacific Symposium on Biocomput-ing, pages 652?663.David McClosky and Eugene Charniak.
2008.
Self-Training for Biomedical Parsing.
In Proceedings ofthe 46th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics - Human Language Technolo-gies (ACL-HLT?08), pages 101?104.David McClosky.
2009.
Any Domain Parsing: Au-tomatic Domain Adaptation for Natural LanguageParsing.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of Computer Sci-ence, Brown University.Makoto Miwa, Rune S?tre, Jin-Dong Kim, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2010.
Event Extraction With Com-plex Event Classification Using Rich Features.
JBioinform Comput Biol, 8:131?146.Alexander A. Morgan and Lynette Hirschman.
2007.Overview of BioCreative II gene normalization.
InProceedings of BioCreative II, pages 101?103.Claire Ne?dellec.
2005.
Learning Language inLogic - Genic Interaction Extraction Challenge.
InJ.
Cussens and C. Ne?dellec, editors, Proceedingsof the 4th Learning Language in Logic Workshop(LLL05), pages 31?37.Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, Hideki Mima, and Jun?ichiTsujii.
2002.
GENIA corpus: An annotated re-search abstract corpus in molecular biology domain.In Proceedings of the Human Language TechnologyConference (HLT?02), pages 73?77.Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, Sampo Pyysalo, YueWang, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009a.
Incorporatinggenetag-style annotation to genia corpus.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop, pages 106?107, Boulder, Colorado, June.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Kim Jin-Dong, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009b.
A re-evaluation of biomedi-cal named entity - term relations.
In Proceedings ofLBM?09.Sampo Pyysalo, Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Static relations: a piece in thebiomedical information extraction puzzle.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop, pages 1?9,Boulder, Colorado, June.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Lorraine Tanabe, Natalie Xie, Lynne H Thom, WayneMatten, and W John Wilbur.
2005.
GENETAG: Atagged corpus for gene/protein named entity recog-nition.
BMC Bioinformatics, 6(Suppl.
1):S3.Yuka Tateisi, Akane Yakushiji, Tomoko Ohta, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2005.
Syntax Annotation for theGENIA corpus.
In Proceedings of the IJCNLP2005, Companion volume, pages 222?227.The Gene Ontology Consortium.
2000.
Gene ontol-ogy: tool for the unification of biology.
Nature ge-netics, 25:25?29.36
