Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Louhi Workshop on Text and Data Mining of Health Documents, pages 8?14,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Information for Generating A Diabetes Report Card fromFree Text in Physicians NotesRamanjot S BhatiaUniversity of Ottawa HeartInstituteOttawa, Ontario.Rbhatia@ottawaheart.caAmber GraystoneMcMaster UniversityHamilton, Ontario.amber.graystone@medportal.caRoss A DaviesUniversity of Ottawa HeartInstituteOttawa, Ontario.RADavies@ottawaheart.caSusan McClintonUniversity of Ottawa HeartInstituteOttawa, Ontario.SMcClinton@ottawaheart.caJason MorinNational Research CouncilCanadaOttawa, Ontario.jason.morin@nrc-cnrc.gc.caRichard F DaviesUniversity of Ottawa HeartInstituteOttawa, Ontario.RFDavies@ottawaheart.caAbstractAchieving guideline-based targets in patientswith diabetes is crucial for improving clinicaloutcomes and preventing long-term complica-tions.
Using electronic heath records (EHRs) toidentify high-risk patients for further interven-tion by screening large populations is limited be-cause many EHRs store clinical information asdictated and transcribed free text notes that arenot amenable to statistical analysis.
This paperpresents the process of extracting elementsneeded for generating a diabetes report card fromfree text notes written in English.
Numericalmeasurements, representing lab values and phys-ical examinations results are extracted from freetext documents and then stored in a structureddatabase.
Extracting diagnosis information andmedication lists are work in progress.
The com-plete dataset for this project is comprised of81,932 documents from 30,459 patients collectedover a period of 5 years.
The patient populationis considered high risk for diabetes as they haveexisting cardiovascular complications.
Experi-mental results validate our method, demonstrat-ing high precision (88.8-100%).1 IntroductionA standard practice for care providers is to recordpatient consults using voice dictation.
The voicedictation record is transcribed into free text andstored electronically.
The nature of this text isnarrative with a possibility of containing headingsmarking the boundaries of the paragraphs.
Thisremains the medium of choice for storing key pa-tient information as opposed to structured tablesdue to time constraints, uncertainty about the useof codes, classification limitations, and difficultywith the use of computer systems.
The informationbeing stored in machine readable format is notamenable to any form of statistical analysis or re-view as it exists (Mcdonald 1997, Lovis et al2000).
The usefulness of mining information fromthis text has been stressed by many includingHeinze et al (2001) and Hripcsak et al (1995).The information unlocked from the free text couldbe used for facilitating patient management, re-searching disease symptoms, analyzing diagnoses,epidemiological research, book keeping, etc.
Thefree text in these documents has been shown to beless ambiguous than text in general unrestricteddocuments (Ruch et al 2001) making it feasible tosuccessfully apply extraction techniques usingtools from IE and NLP.
Natural languageprocessing has been used to analyze free text in8medical domain for decision support (Chapman etal.
2005), classifying medical problem lists(Meystre and Haug 2005), extracting disease re-lated information (Xu et al 2004), building dy-namic medications lists (Pakhomov et al 2002),building applications for better data management,and for diagnosis detection.
(Friedman et al 2004,Roberts et al 2008,  Liu and Friedman 2004).Our goal is to automatically generate diabetesreport cards from the free text in physicians' letters.The report card can be used to detect populationsat risk for diabetes mellitus and track their vitalinformation over a period of time.
Previous workin similar area has seen Turchin et al (2005) iden-tify patients with diabetes from the text of physi-cian notes by looking for mention of diabetes andpredefined list of medication names.
They use amanually created list of negation tokens to detectfalse examples.
They compare the process to ma-nual chart review and billing notes and show theautomatic system performs at par with manual re-view with the advantage of it being highly effi-cient.In Turchin et al (2006) the authors use regularexpressions to extract blood pressure values andchange of treatment for hypertension.
They use aset of regular expressions to detect the presence ofa blood pressure related tag, which predicts that thesentence is likely to contain a blood pressure value.The value itself is then extracted using regular ex-pressions.
They identify the strength of the processin it being relatively simple, efficient and quick tosetup, while its weakness is its lack of generaliza-tion.
Voorham and Denig (2007) solve a similarproblem as in here and extract information regard-ing diabetes from free text notes using a numbercentric approach.
They identify all positive numer-ical values and then attach respective labels to thevalues.
They use a keyword based approach with afour word token window and apply a character se-quence algorithm to check for spelling errors.Extracting relevant information from free textrepresents a challenging problem since the task canbe considered to be a form of reverse engineeringand is above the mere presence of keywords orpatterns.
It is necessary to generate semantic repre-sentations to understand the text.
The free textdocument may contain multiple values for thesame label, and it's important to be able to distin-guish and choose the correct value.
These valuescould be:?
multiple readings (in which case a prede-fined rule may be enough, e.g.
choosing thesmallest mean arterial blood pressure value)?
potential target values (which may or maynot be important)?
values taken over a period of time?
values taken at different locations?
values reflecting family history?
change in a value and not the actual value?
values influenced by some external reasons(e.g.
take medication if the weight is abovea certain value).Friedman and Hripcsak (1999) discuss some ofthe many problems of dealing with free text inmedical domain.
One method to resolve theseproblems is to build a full grammar tree and assignsemantic roles to accurately interpret the text.However, generating full parse trees for medicaltext requires specialized parsers developed for theclinical domain (Freidman, 2005).
It has beenshown that shallow syntactic approaches can yieldsimilar results to the ones using full syntactic de-tails (Gildea & Palmer, 2002).In this work we use shallow syntactic and se-mantic features (manually created concept list andWordNet, Miller 1995) to tag information relatingto the numerical values extracted from the text.
Weuse machine learning tool WEKA (Hall et al2009) to build binary classifiers that pick positivevalues from the list of values extracted from thedocument.
Our method allows us to build a robustand extendible system which should be easily port-able to texts from different institutions and othermedical domains.2 MethodOur method extends Voorham's work in using thenumeric value centered approach while developinga robust way to disambiguate between multiplevalues in the same document.
The information ex-tracted for the report card is divided into four cate-gories: demographic information, numericalmeasurement values, medication list, and diagnos-es.
We currently have access to only one source ofinformation, the free text in physicians' notes,hence all of the information needed for the reportcard is extracted from these notes.
The extractionof demographic information is achieved using reg-9ular expressions/pattern matching based tech-niques.
The demographic information extracted isyear of birth, date of encounter and gender.
Thegender information is determined using a heuristic,which counts the number of third person masculineand feminine pronouns present in the text.
Numeri-cal measurement values extracted include bloodpressure (systolic and diastolic), LDL, HDL,HbA1C, weight, total cholesterol, fasting glucose,glucose (unspecified) and creatinine.
The medica-tion list extraction process uses a manually createddatabase of applicable medications.
The diagnosisdetection involves negation detection in the sen-tences that mention diabetes using the NegEx algo-rithm (Chapman et al 2001).In this study we use shallow syntactic and se-mantic attributes to build a system that extracts thephysical examination and laboratory results data.The values are extracted as numeric value-labelpairs.
The system is divided into three main parts(Figure 1): preprocessing stage, extraction of thenumeric value-label pairs, and testing the validityof the extracted pairs.Preprocessing: The documents were originallystored in Microsoft Word format (WordML).
Theyare converted to XML using XSLT transformation.All formatting information is stripped except forbold and italic font information and paragraphboundariesThe paragraphs in the document are furtherbroken down into sentences and tokens.
We useOPENNLP Maxent1 library to do sentence boun-dary detection and tokenization.
OPENNLP Max-ent is based on maximum entropy algorithmsdescribed in Ratnaparkhi (1998) and Berger et al(1996).
The OPENNLP statistical tagger is used toassign syntactic tags to the tokens.Data Extraction: In this phase the system extractsall potential numerical values and assigns themlabels.
The system loops through all of the tokensin the document, testing for numerical values.
Ittests each numerical token against a set of regularexpressions and assigns them a list of potentiallabels based on the regular expression it matches.The system takes into account the presence of ameasurement unit and revises the potential list oflabels based on the unit.
For each potential label,using a knowledge base, the system looks for con-cepts that validate the labels.
The closest possible1 http://opennlp.sourceforge.net/validation is accepted as pairing.
The Edit distancealgorithm is used to test for matching concepts inorder to account for any spelling errors.
The con-cepts are searched within the constraints of the sen-tence.Figure 1 Process Flow diagram for the extractionprocessIn case multiple labels are validated because of thepresence of multiple concepts in the same sen-tence, the label indicated by the closest concept isselected.
For each pair, the system extracts a list offeatures which help to resolve for positive values.One exception to the sentence level boundary ruleis: if no concepts are found in the sentence, and thesentence contains a third person singular inanimatepronoun, the search is extended to the previoussentence.Testing Validity: The previous step extracts allpossible label-numeric value pairs.
As discussedearlier not all values are valid or of interest.
In or-der to select positive values, binary classifiers werebuilt for each label.
The dataset used for trainingconsisted of 900 documents (210 patients).
TheJ48 (decision trees 4.5) and NBTree (Na?ve Bayesdecision trees) algorithms in WEKA were used togenerate the machine learning classifiers.10Features: The following is the list of features ex-tracted for each pair.a) Absolute distance between the label and thenumerical value.b) Label shared (Yes/No): Yes, if the same con-cept label is attached to another numerical val-ue in the same document.c) Closest verb token appearing left of the numer-ical value.d) Presence of a modal verb (Yes/No)e) Distance of numerical value from the modalverb (a positive value is assigned for the modalverb if it occurs before the numeric token, anda negative value when it appears after).f) Conjunction present (Yes/No): If there is con-junction present between the label and numeri-cal value or not.g) Coreference present (Yes/No): If third personsingular inanimate pronoun is present or not.h) Negation concept present (Yes/No): True ifthere is any negation concept present in the vi-cinity of the numerical value/label.
The nega-tion concepts include not just negativestatement markers, but also false cognates andother concepts collected by the domain ex-perts.
(e.g.
systolic murmur or systolic volumedo not indicate systolic pressure).i) Locational Information token: The stemmedtoken is stored if it is recognized as a location-al information token.
The location informationis deduced by generalizing each token andchecking to see whether it resolves to one ofmany Locational cues in WordNet.
The list oflocation indicators is presented in Figure 2.The cues are resolved against the WordNethypernym definitions for that token.j) Distance of numerical value from Locationaltoken.k) Temporal information token: Similar to (i), thestemmed token indicating temporal informa-tion.
The temporal information token includesany tokens that indicate date or time.
The listof temporal indicator cues in WordNet isshown in Figure 2.l) Distance of the numerical value from the tem-poral token.For features (c), (i) and (k) the tokens are stored intheir uninflected form, achieved using PorterStemmer.
For the report card, in case of multiplepositive values for the same label, the smallest val-ue is selected.
In the case of blood pressure, thesmallest mean arterial pressure is selected.Figure 2 WordNet hypernym based generalization cuesfor location and time indicators3 EvaluationEvaluation was done using a test set consisting of804 documents from 260 patients (50 percent hadpositive diagnosis for diabetes).
The test set wascreated by a first year student at Michael G De-groote School of Medicine at McMaster Universi-ty.
The reviewer manually analyzed the notes andextracted final values that would appear on the re-port card along with a time stamp for each value toindicate the source document.
The human reviewertook approximately 10 minutes per patient; incomparison the computer analyzed the data at 6.43patients per minute.Evaluation results testing the performance ofthe system using the manually coded test set areshown in Table 1 below.Value Preci-sionRecall F-measure1 BloodPressure98.2 96.9 97.82 LDL 96.4 94.2 95.33 HDL 100 98.3 99.14 Creatinine 97.2 92.1 94.55 Weight 95.6 92.9 94.26 TC 93.1 98.1 95.57 Glucose 90.7 85.7 87.78 F Glucose 88.8 80.0 84.29 HbA1C 90.9 86.9 88.8Table 1 Precision/Recall for numerical values114 Results and DiscussionThe precision, recall and f-measure for all ninelabel values extracted for the system along with therecall values for the human reviewer are listed inTable 1.
The system demonstrates high precision inextracting and selecting positive numeric value-label pairs.
Blood pressure is extracted with a pre-cision of 98.2% and recall 96.9%.
HDL and LDLvalues are easy to spot and extract as they usuallyoccur without description.
At the lower end of pre-cision are fasting glucose, glucose and HbA1Cwhere precision results are in the range of 88-90%.The majority of errors for all categories occurreddue to problems in identifying numeric values be-cause of typing errors.Figure 3 shows an example of the level of com-plexity resolved using the algorithm developedhere.
The clinical documents frequently have mul-tiple values for weight and blood pressure in a sin-gle document.
The lab values do not have the samelevel of multiplicity but it can occur.
In this exam-ple, the extraction step extracts all five values, andthe classifier successfully rejects values #3 and #5.To comply with the report card?s output require-ments the lowest mean arterial pressure of the re-maining three values is adopted, which is thecorrect response.
This approach is extendible tobuild a slot-filler system for the values, whichwould allow the system to reason on its choice.In previous work, the disambiguation of thevalues is only based on the presence of negationconcepts within a pre-specified boundary.
We ex-tend this to include a simple need based co-reference, location and temporal information, and aheuristic approach to include the head verb (it onlytakes into account the closest verb, which may ormay not be the governing verb).
The system cansuccessfully detect negative values such as targetvalues, previous values, change in value or valuesmeasured elsewhere.The information extracted is stored in a struc-tured MySQL database.
The system allows mul-tiple views on this information.
Figure 4 shows theoutput for blood pressure and creatinine for a pa-tient that was created from the information ex-tracted from the free text.Figure 3 Example 1At this time we have not evaluated the contribu-tion of each feature individually, as this requiresbuilding a comprehensive test set; it remains asfuture work.5 ConclusionOur preliminary results demonstrate that the sys-tem performs with high precision and recall at thetask of extracting numerical values.
It also showsthe ability to build a patient-chart abstractor withinthe restricted domain.
The use of semantic andsyntactic features enables the system to tag thevalues which permit the overall extraction processto generate more informative numeric value-labelpairs.
The use of machine learning algorithmscoupled with a large enough learning dataset pro-duces a robust system that should work reliably onsimilar data from any source.
We plan to test thesystem on a dataset obtained from the free textnotes of endocrinologists at a different health insti-tution to validate the generalization of the algo-rithm.
The next step for the Diabetes Report Cardis to extract the list of medications and track anychanges in medication, dosage and frequency.AcknowledgmentsA special thanks to Michael Domenic Corbo fordoing the manual review and creating the goldstandard dataset.126 ReferencesBerger, A. L., Pietra, V. J., & Pietra, S. A.
(1996).
Amaximum entropy approach to natural languageprocessing.
Computational Linguistics , 39-71.Chapman, W. W., Christensenb, L. M., Wagnera, M.M., Haugb, P. J., Ivanova, O., Dowlinga, J. N., et al(2005).
Classifying free-text triage chief complaints intosyndromic categories with natural languages processing.Artificial Intelligence in Medicine , 31-40.Chapman, W., Bridewell, W., Hanbury, P., Cooper, G.,& Buchanan, B.
(2001).
Evaluation of negation phrasesin narrative clinical reports.
Proc AMIA Symp , 105-114.Freidman, C. (2005).
Semantic Text Parsing for PatientRecords.
In Medical Informatics (pp.
423-448).Springer US.Friedman, C., & Hripcsak, G. (1999).
Natural LanguageProcessing and Its Future in Medicine.
Acad Med , 890-895.Friedman, C., Shagina, L., Lussier, Y., & Hripcsak, G.(2004).
Automated Encoding of Clinical Documentsbased on Natural Language Processing.
Journal ofAmerican Medical Informatics Association .Gildea, D., & Palmer, M. (2002).
The Necessity ofSyntactic Parsing for Predicate Argument Recognition.Association for Computational Linguistics, (pp.
239-246).Hall, M., Frank, E., Holmes, G., Pfahringer, B.,Reutemann, P., & Witten, I. H. (2009).
The WEKAData Mining Software: An Update.
SIGKDDExplorations .Heinze, D. T., Morsch, M. L., & Holbrook, J.
(2001).Mining free-text medical records.
AMIA, (pp.
254-258).Hripcsak, G., Friedman, C., Alderson, P., DuMouchel,W., Johnson, S., & Clayton, P. (1995).
Unlockingclinical data from narrative reports: a study of naturallanguage processing.
Ann Intern Med , 681-689.Liu, H., & Friedman, C. (2004).
CliniViewer: a tool forviewing electronic medical records based on naturallanguage processing and XML.
MedInfo , 639-643.Lovis, C., Baud, R. H., & Plancheb, P. (2000).
Power ofexpression in the electronic patient record: structureddata or narrative text?
International Journal of MedicalInformatics , 101-110.Mcdonald, C. J.
(1997).
The Barriers to ElectronicMedical Record Systems and How to Overcome Them.Journal of the American Medical InformaticsAssociation , 213-221.Meystre, S., & Haug, P. J.
(2005).
Automation of aproblem list using natural language processing.
BMCMedical Informatics and Decision Making , 5-30.Miller, G. A.
(1995).
WordNet: A Lexical Database forEnglish.
Communications of the ACM , 38, 39-41.Pakhomov, S. V., Ruggieri, A., & Chute, C. G. (2002).Maximum entropy modeling for mining patientmedication status from free text.
Proceedings of theAmerican Medical Informatics, (pp.
587?591).Ratnaparkhi, A.
(1998).
Maximum Entropy Models forNatural Language Ambiguity Resolution.
Phd Thesis.Roberts, A., Gaizauskas, R., Hepple, M., & Guo, Y.(2008).
Mining clinical relationships from patientnarratives.
Natural Language Processing inBiomedicine (BioNLP) ACL Workshop.Ruch, P., Baud, R., Geissbuhler, A., & Rassinoux, A.-M. (2001).
Comparing general and medical texts forinformation retreival based on natural languageprocessing: An inquiry into lexical disambiguation., (pp.261-266).Turchin, A., Kohane, I., & Pendergrass, M. (2005).Identification of patients with diabetes from the text ofphysician notes in the electronic medical record.Diabetes Care , 1794-1795.Figure 4 System Output: Automatically generated graphs for blood pressure and creatinine values for a patient13Turchin, A., Kolatkar, N., Grant, R. W., Makhni, E. C.,Pendergrass, M. L., & Einbinder, J. S. (2006).
Usingregular expressions to abstract blood pressure andtreatment intensification information from the text ofphysician notes.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association , 691-696.Voorham, J., & Denig, P. (2007).
ComputerizedExtraction of Information on the Quality of DiabetesCare from Free Text in Electronic Patient Records ofGeneral Practitioners.
The Journal of the AmericanMedical Informatics Association , 349-354.Xu, H., Anderson, K., Grann, V. R., & Friedman, C.(2004).
Facilitating Research in Pathology using NaturalLanguage Processing.
Proc AMIA Symp, (p. 1057).14
