Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 225?228,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe vocal intensity of turn-initial cue phrases in dialogueAnna HjalmarssonDepartment of Speech Music and Hearing, KTHStockholm, Swedenannah@speech.kth.seAbstractThe present study explores the vocal intensityof turn-initial cue phrases in a corpus of dia-logues in Swedish.
Cue phrases convey rela-tively little propositional content, but haveseveral important pragmatic functions.
Themajority of these entities are frequently occur-ring monosyllabic words such as ?eh?, ?mm?,?ja?.
Prosodic analysis shows that these wordsare produced with higher intensity than otherturn-initial words are.
In light of these results,it is suggested that speakers produce these ex-pressions with high intensity in order to claimthe floor.
It is further shown that the differencein intensity can be measured as a dynamic in-ter-speaker relation over the course of a dia-logue using the end of the interlocutor?s previ-ous turn as a reference point.1 IntroductionIn dialogue, interlocutors produce speech incre-mentally and on-line as the dialogue progresses.Articulation can be initiated before the speakerhas a complete plan of what to say (Pechmann,1989).
When speaking, processes at all levels(e.g.
semantic, syntactic, phonologic and articu-latory) work in parallel to render the utterance.This processing strategy is efficient, since thespeaker may employ the time devoted to articu-lating an early part of an utterance to plan therest.Speakers often initiate new turns with cuephrases ?
standardized lexical or non-lexical ex-pressions such as ?ehm?
?okay?, ?yeah?, and?but?
(c.f.
Gravano, 2009).
Cue phrases (or dis-course markers) are linguistic devices used tosignal relations between different segments ofspeech (for an overview see Fraser, 1996).
Thesedevices convey relatively little propositional con-tent, but have several important pragmatic func-tions.
For example, these words provide feed-back and signal how the upcoming utterance re-lates to previous context.
Another importantfunction is to claim the conversational floor (c.f.Levinson, 1983).With these fundamental properties of languageproduction in mind, it is proposed that turn-initialcue phrases can be used in spoken dialogue sys-tems to initiate new turns, allowing the systemadditional time to generate a complete response.This approach was recently explored in a userstudy with a dialogue system that generates turn-initial cue phrases incrementally (Skantze &Hjalmarsson, in press).
Results from this experi-ment show that an incremental version that usedturn-initial cue phrases had shorter responsetimes and was rated as more efficient, more po-lite and better at indicating when to speak than anon-incremental implementation of the same sys-tem.
The present study carries on this research,investigating acoustic parameters of turn-initialcue phrases in order to build a dialogue systemthat sounds convincing intonation wise.Another aim of this study was to explore if thevocal intensity of the other speaker?s immedi-ately preceding speech can be used as a referencepoint in order to measure intensity as an inter-speaker relation over the course of a dialogue.Thus, in addition to measuring overall differ-ences in intensity, the relative difference betweenthe first token of a new turn and the last token ofthe immediately preceding turn was measured.This dynamic approach, if proven feasible, al-lows spoken dialogue system designers to adjustthe system?s vocal intensity on-line in order toaccommodate variations in the surroundingacoustic environment.2 Related workThere are a few examples of research that havemanipulated intensity to signal pragmatic func-tions.
For example, Str?m & Seneff (2000) in-creases intensity in order to signal that user225barge-ins are disallowed in particular dialoguestates.
Theoretical support for such manipula-tions is provided by an early line of research oninterruptions in dialogue (Meltzer et al, 1971).Meltzer et al (1971) propose that the outcome ofspeech overlaps is affected by prosodic charac-teristics and show that the greater the increase inamplitude, the greater the likelihood of ?interrup-tion success?.
Moreover, it is show that the suc-cess of interruptions, that is who retains the floor,is based on how much higher the intensity of theinterruption is compared to the previousspeaker?s intensity or compared  to the speaker?sown intensity at the end of that speaker?s previ-ous speaker turn.Measuring inter-speaker relative intensity isfurther motivated by research that suggests thatspeakers adjust their vocal intensity online overthe course of a dialogue in order to accommodatethe surrounding acoustic context.
For example,speakers tend to raise their voice unintentionallywhen background noise increases to enhancetheir audibility; this is the so-called Lombardeffect (Pick et al, 1989).
Moreover, speakersadjust intensity based on their conversationalpartners (Natale, 1975) and the distance to theirlisteners (Healey et al, 1997).3 Method3.1 Data: The DEAL corpusDEAL is a dialogue system that is currently be-ing developed at the department of Speech, Mu-sic and Hearing, KTH (Wik & Hjalmarsson,2009).
The aim of the DEAL dialogue system isto provide conversation training for second lan-guage learners of Swedish.
The scene of DEALis set at a flea market where a talking animatedpersona is the owner of a shop selling usedgoods.The dialogue data used as a basis for the dataanalyzes presented in this paper were human-human dialogues, collected in a recording envi-ronment set up to mimic the interaction in theDEAL domain.
The dialogue collected were in-formal, human-human, face-to-face conversationin Swedish.
The recordings were made withclose talk microphones with six subjects (fourmale and two female).
In total, eight dialogueswere collected.
Each dialogue was about 15 min-utes, making for about two hours of speech intotal in the corpus.
The dialogues were tran-scribed orthographically and annotated for enti-ties such as laughter, lip-smacks, breathing andhemming.
The transcripts from the dialogueswere time-aligned with the speech signal.
Thiswas done using forced alignment with subse-quent manual verification of the timings.
Thedialogues were also segmented into speakerturns.
A speaker turn here is a segment of speechof arbitrary length surrounded by anotherspeaker?s vocalization.
All together, the dia-logues contained 2036 speaker turns.The corpus was also annotated for cue phrasesusing 11 functional categories.
The definition ofcue phrases used for annotation of the DEALcorpus was broad and all types of vocalizationsthat the speakers use to hold the dialogue to-gether at different communicative levels wereincluded.
Cue phrase annotation was designed asa two-fold task: (i) to decide if a word was a cuephrase or not ?
a binary task, and (ii) to select itsfunctional class according to the annotationscheme.
The annotators could see the transcrip-tions and listen to the recordings while labelling.The kappa coefficient for task (i) was 0.87(p<.05).
The kappa coefficient for (ii) was 0.82(p<.05).
For a detailed description of the cuephrase categories and their annotation, see(Hjalmarsson, 2008).3.2 Data analysisThe first word in each turn was extracted andanalyzed.
Here, a word is all annotated tokens inthe corpus except breathing, lip-smacks, andlaughter, which are all relevant, but outside thescope of this study.
1137 (57%) words were an-notated as some type of cue phrase, and 903 (43%) were other words.
The turn-initial cue phraseswere annotated with different cue phrase catego-ries.
587 (28%) turn-initial words were annotatedas either RESPONSIVE, RESPONSIVE DISPREFER-ENCE or RESPONSIVE NEW INFORMATION.
Theannotation of these was based on the interpreta-tion of the speakers?
attitudes, expressing eitherneutral feedback (RESPONSIVE), non-agreement(RESPONSIVE DISPREFERENCE) or surprise (RE-SPONSIVE NEW INFORMATION).
The RESPON-SIVES were most frequently realized as either?ja?, ?a?, and ?mm?
(Eng: ?yeah?, ?mm?
).Furthermore, 189 (9%) of all turn-initial wordswere annotated as CONNECTIVES.
The connectivecue phrase categories indicate how the new ut-terance relates to previous context.
For example,these signal whether the upcoming speaker turnis additive, contrastive or alternative to previouscontext.
Examples of these categories are ?och?
(Eng: ?and?
), ?men?
(Eng: ?but?)
and ?eller?
(Eng: ?or?
), respectively.226A third category of cue phrases in a turn-initialposition was filled pauses (57, 3%).
Whereasfilled pause may not typically be considered ascue phrases, these elements have similar charac-teristics.
For example, fillers provide importantpragmatic information that listeners attend andadjust their behaviour according to.
For example,a corpus study of Dutch fillers showed that thesetokens highlight discourse structure (Swertz,1998).
Frequently occurring filler words in thecorpus were ?eh?
and ?ehm?.The majority of the turn-initial cue phraseswere high frequency monosyllabic words, whichare typically not associated with stress, althoughon listening, they give the impression of beinglouder than other turn-initial vocalizations.
Toverify this observation, the intensity in decibel ofthe first word of each turn was extracted usingSnack (www.speech.kth.se/snack).
In order toexplore the vocal intensity as an inter-speakerrelation over the course of the dialogue, the aver-age intensity of the last word of all turns wasextracted.
The motivation of this approach is touse the previous speaker?s voice intensity as areference point.
Thus, in order to avoid the needfor global analysis over speakers and dialogues,only the (un-normalized) difference in intensitybetween the last word of the immediately preced-ing turn and the first word of a new turn was cal-culated.All turns following a one word only turn fromthe other speaker were excluded as an approxi-mation to avoid speech following backchannelresponses.
300 (33%) of the speaker changescontained overlapping speech.
These overlapswere excluded from the data analysis since therecordings were not completely channel-separated and crosstalk could conceivably inter-fere with the results.Since the distance between the lips and themicrophone was not controlled for during therecordings, the values were first normalized perspeaker and dialogue (each value was shifted bythe mean value per speaker and dialogue).4 ResultsFigure 1 presents the average normalized inten-sity for turns initiated with cue phrases and otherwords.An independent samples t-test was conductedbetween the intensity of turns initiated with cuephrases and other turn-initial words.
There was asignificant difference in intensity between turnsinitiated with cue phrases (M=3.20 dB, SD=6.99)and turns initiated with other words (M=-4.20dB, SD=9.98), t(597)=10.55, p<.000.
This showsthat, on average, turns initiated with cue phraseswere significantly louder (on average 6 dB) thanturns initiated with other words.-6-4-20246Other words Cue phrasesAveragenormalized intensityindFigure 1 : Average normalized vocal intensity in dBfor turn-initial words.
Error bars represents thestandard error.In order to explore the vocal intensity as an in-ter-speaker relation the difference in voice inten-sity between a new turn and the end of the im-mediately preceding turn was extracted.
The in-ter-speaker differences in intensity for turn-initialcue phrases and other words are presented inFigure 2.-8-6-4-202468Other words Cue phrasesAverage differenceinintensityindBFigure 2 Average difference in intensity (in dB) forturn-initial words.
Error bars represents the stan-dard error.An independent samples t-test was conducted toexplore the difference in voice intensity as aninter-speaker relation.
There was a significantdifference in intensity between turns initiatedwith cue phrases (M=6.14 dB, SD=11.86) andturns initiated with other words (M=-1.52 dB,SD=13.07); t(595)=7.48, p<.000.
This shows thatthe increase in intensity was significantly largerfor turns initiated with cue phrases (about 7 dB)than for turns initiated with other words.5 DiscussionThis paper presents analyses of the intensity ofturn-initial words.
It shown that turns are fre-quently initiated with cue phrases (about 55% ofthe turns in the DEAL corpus).
The majority of227these consist of high frequency monosyllabicwords such as ?yes?, ?mm?
and ?okay?.
Themost frequent turn-initial words that were notannotated as cue phrases were ?den?
(Eng: ?it?),?vad?
(Eng: ?what?
), and ?jag?
(Eng: ?I?).
Thus,similar to turn-initial cue phrases, this categorycontains high-frequency monosyllabic words,items that are not typically associated with pro-sodic stress.
Yet, the results show that turn-initialcue phrases are produced with higher intensitythan other turn-initial words are.
In the light ofprevious research, which suggests that increasedintensity have turn-claiming functions, one canspeculate that speakers produce talkspurt-initialcue phrases with increased intensity in order toclaim the floor convincingly before having for-mulated a complete utterance.It is further argued that turn-initial cue phrasescan be used in dialogue systems capable of in-cremental speech production.
Such words can beused to initiate turns once the user has stoppedspeaking, allowing the system more time toprocess input without response delays.Finally, it is suggested that intensity may bebetter modelled relative to the intensity of theimmediately preceding speech rather than in ab-solute of speaker-normalized terms.
Speakersadjust their intensity to the current acousticalenvironment, and such a dynamic inter-speakerrelative model may accommodate the currentacoustic context over the course of a dialogue.
Insupport of this approach, the present study showsthat the increase in intensity can be calculateddynamically over the dialogue using the end ofthe previous speaker?s turn as a reference point.Inter-speaker relative measures are also moti-vated practically.
Extracting objective measuresof intensity is problematic since contextual fac-tors such as the distance between the microphoneand the lips are difficult to control between dia-logues and speakers, but the effects are mitigatedby dynamic and relative measures.
This is not tosay that measuring intensity over the course of asingle dialogue is trivial.
Variation due to forexample unforeseen alterations of the distancebetween the lips and the microphone during thedialogue are still problematic, but it is less of aproblem within a session than between differentsessions.AcknowledgmentsThis research was carried out at Centre forSpeech Technology, KTH.
Funding was pro-vided by Riksbankens Jubileumsfond (RJ) pro-ject P09-0064:1-E Prosody in conversation andthe Graduate School for Language Technology(GSLT).
Many thanks to Rolf Carlson, Jens Ed-lund and Joakim Gustafson for valuable com-ments.ReferencesFraser, B.
(1996).
Pragmatic markers.
Pragmatics,6(2), 167-190.Gravano, A.
(2009).
Turn-Taking and Affirmative CueWords in Task-Oriented Dialogue.
Doctoral disser-tation, Columbia University.Healey, C., Jones, R., & Berky, R. (1997).
Effects ofperceived listeners on speakers'vocal intensity.Journal of Voice, 11(1), 67-73.Hjalmarsson, A.
(2008).
Speaking without knowingwhat to say... or when to end.
In Proceedings ofSIGDial 2008.
Columbus, Ohio, USA.Levinson, S. C. (1983).
Pragmatics.
Cambridge:Cambridge University press.Meltzer, L., Hayes, D., & Morris, M. (1971).
Interrup-tion Outcomes and Vocal Amplitude: Explorationsin Social Psychophysics.
Journal of Personalityand Social Psychology, 18(3), 392-402.Natale, M. (1975).
Convergence of mean vocal inten-sity in dyadic communication as a function of so-cial desirability.
Personality and Social Psychol-ogy, 32(5), 790-804.Pechmann, T. (1989).
Incremental speech productionand referential overspecification.
Linguistics, 27,89-110.Pick, H. L. J., Siegel, G. M., Fox, P. W., Garber, S.R., & Kearney, J. K. (1989).
Inhibiting theLombard effect.
JASA, 85(2), 894-900.Skantze, G., & Hjalmarsson, A.
(in press).
TowardsIncremental Speech Generation in Dialogue Sys-tems.
To be published in Proceedings of SigDial.Tokyo, Japan.Str?m, N., & Seneff, S. (2000).
Intelligent barge-in inconversational systems.
In Procedings of ICSLP-00.Swertz, M. (1998).
Filled pauses as markers of dis-course structure.
Journal of Pragmatics, 30(4),485-496.Wik, P., & Hjalmarsson, A.
(2009).
Embodied con-versational agents in computer assisted languagelearning.
Speech communication, 51(10), 1024-1037.228
