Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Finding the Common Ground, ACL 2010, pages 70?78,Uppsala, Sweden, 16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsConsonant Co-occurrence in Stems Across Languages: AutomaticAnalysis and Visualization of a Phonotactic ConstraintThomas Mayer1, Christian Rohrdantz2, Frans Plank1,Peter Bak2, Miriam Butt1, Daniel A. Keim21Department of Linguistics, 2Department of Computer ScienceUniversity of Konstanz, Germany{thomas.mayer,christian.rohrdantz}@uni-konstanz.deAbstractIn this paper, we explore the phenomenonof Similar Place Avoidance (SPA), ac-cording to which successive consonantswithin stems sharing the same place ofarticulation are avoided.
This principlehas recently been hypothesized as a uni-versal tendency although evidence fromonly a few languages scattered across theworld has been considered.
Using meth-ods taken from the field of Visual Analyt-ics, which have demonstrably been shownto help with understanding complex in-teractions across large data sets, we in-vestigated a large crosslinguistic lexicaldatabase (comprising data on more than4,500 languages) and found that a univer-sal tendency can indeed be maintained.1 IntroductionLinguistic knowledge has traditionally been ac-quired by analyzing a manageable set of data, onthe basis of which generalizations are posited thatcan then be tested on an extended set of data fromthe same language or comparative data from otherlanguages.
Tendencies, rather than absolute prin-ciples, are difficult to detect under this approach.This is true especially when they are obscured bycounterexamples that happen to occur with highfrequency, but that may be restricted to just asmall minority of the overall pattern.
This mayprompt a researcher to discard a valid generaliza-tion from the outset.
In recent years, a plethora ofstatistical and stochastic methods have thereforebeen pursued within linguistic research, leading toapproaches such as stochastic Optimality Theory(Boersma and Hayes, 2001) or the use of statis-tics to detect crosslinguistic tendencies (Bickel, inpress).However, although the various statistical meth-ods deal with data which exhibit very complex andoften ill-understood interactions, analyses havenot to date availed themselves of methodologycurrently being developed in the field of VisualAnalytics, which allows us to use our powerful vi-sual processing ability to understand and evaluatecomplex data sets (Keim et al, 2008; Thomas andCook, 2005).In this paper, we present an interdisciplinaryeffort whereby linguistically interesting patternsare automatically extracted, analyzed and visuallypresented so that an at-a-glance evaluation of lin-guistically significant patterns is made possible.
Inorder to demonstrate that this technique is espe-cially useful with phenomena that do not mani-fest themselves in absolute principles, but ratherin statistical tendencies, we investigated a phe-nomenon that, on the basis of a comparativelysparse and unrepresentative data set, has recentlybeen claimed to be a universal tendency (Pozdni-akov and Segerer, 2007): Similar Place Avoidance(SPA).
In this paper, we conduct a more represen-tative study of about 4,500 languages.
Our resultsallow an at-a-glance evaluation which shows thatSPA indeed seems to be a valid language universaltendency.Our work on SPA is part of a more widespreadeffort currently being conducted with respect to vi-sually representing crosslinguistic sound patterns.In Rohrdantz et al (2010), we already showed thatphonological patterns in languages can be auto-matically extracted and visualized from corpora.Figure 1 displays the vowel harmony patterns thatwere extracted for Turkish in comparison with thelack of such patterns in a non-harmonic languagelike Spanish.The remainder of this article is organized as fol-lows.
Section 2 introduces SPA.
Section 3 pro-vides an overview of the material that was used.
Adescription of the calculations and statistical anal-yses is given in Section 4.
Section 5 presentsthe results of the geo-spatial visualizations, partly70Figure 1: Turkish vowel harmony patterns (left).The matrix visualizaton was generated on thebasis of the Turkish Bible text and shows thepalatal (front/back) and labial (rounding) harmonyblocks.
Rows and columns are automaticallysorted according to the similarity of vowels.
Fornon-harmonic languages, such as Spanish (right),no such patterns can be detected.with respect to a WALS map (Haspelmath et al,2005).
In the final section, we consider some im-plications of our findings and raise some questionsfor future research.2 Similar Place Avoidance (SPA)It has long been noted in studies on Semitic lan-guages, especially Arabic, that there are con-straints on the structure of triliteral consonantroots (?CCC) with respect to the phonologicalfeatures of the individual consonants (Greenberg,1950).
The basic observation is that consonantswith a similar place of articulation are avoidedin non-derived forms.
A similar observation hasalso been made with respect to the Proto-Indo-European (PIE) roots.
Among other things, Iver-son and Salmons (1992) note that Stop-V-Stoproots were very rare in PIE, representing only3.5% of a lexicon of more than 2,000 items.
Plank(1981:221f) observes that Modern German tendsto avoid verbal stems with identical consonantsin initial and final positions (allowing for differ-ences in voicing), and that those verbs with iden-tical initial and final consonants which do existare all morphologically regular.
This indicates thatthey are not basic verbs, but represent a techniqueof word formation, perhaps derivative of redupli-cation as especially common in child or child-directed language.11Note that the early speech of children is characterized bythe opposite effect of SPA: both consonants and vowels tendto share the same place of articulation (Fikkert and Levelt,2010), with greater and greater differentiation being achievedin the course of language acquisition.
The reasons for thisremain to be investigated.Looking at suprasegmental features, Leben(1973) argued that a similar restriction holds forthe co-occurrence of tones in underlying repre-sentations.
In the framework of AutosegmentalPhonology this has become known as the Oblig-atory Contour Principle (OCP), which precludessequences of identical tones from underlying rep-resentations.
This principle has since been under-stood more generally as a prohibition on similaritems and has thus also been used in relation withthe SPA bias in Semitic radicals.More recently, the application of SPA withrespect to stem-internal consonants has beenclaimed for other non-Semitic languages as well.Pozdniakov and Segerer (2007) found impres-sive support for it in their sample of Atlanticand Bantu languages of Niger-Congo and fur-ther tested its crosslinguistic validity for somemore languages or language groups (Mande, Kwa,Ubangi, Sara-Bongo-Bagirmi, Chadic, Malagasy,Indo-European, Nostratic, Mongolian, Basque,Quechua, Kamilaroi, Port Moresby Pidgin En-glish) with similar results.
Table 1 shows theirfindings across all 31 languages in their sample.It can be seen that the highest negative numbersare in the main diagonal of the matrix, which isexactly what SPA would predict.P T C KP ?15 +11 +5 ?5T +12 ?10 ?5 +13C +8 ?5 ?6 +8K ?3 +8 +5 ?15Table 1: Results in Pozdniakov and Segerer(2007).
The numbers indicate the overall sum ofcells with negative vs. positive values with regardto successions of places of articulation (see Sec-tion 3 for a description of the labels P, T, C and K)for all languages in their sample.
Positive and neg-ative values have been assigned if the observed ab-solute value was at least 15% above (respectivelybelow) the expected value.
Compare their resultswith the left matrix in Figure 3.3 Database and methodologyThe data that underlies all the subsequent workpresented in this paper have been taken from theAutomated Similarity Judgment Program (ASJP;Wichmann et al, 2010), which aims at achiev-71ing a computerized lexicostatistical analysis of theworld?s languages.
To this end, Wichmann and hiscollaborators have collected Swadesh list items forover 4,500 languages.
The so-called Swadesh listwas developed by Morris Swadesh in the 1940?50s with the aim of having a basic set of vocabu-lary items which are culturally neutral and whichone would expect to be stable over time.
The orig-inal idea of a Swadesh list was to be able to com-pare and test languages with respect to genealogi-cal relations.The Swadesh items in the Wichmann et aldatabase are transcribed in the ASJP orthogra-phy, which uses standard ASCII characters to en-code the sounds of the world?s languages, but doesmerge some of the distinctions made by the IPA.Furthermore, stress, tone and vowel length are notrecorded in the database.
However, for the pur-pose of our investigation the transcription is suit-able because place of articulation is sufficientlydistinguished.We decided to experiment with two different ap-proaches for dividing up the place of articulationfeatures.
One approach (PTCK) is based on the ar-rangement in Pozdniakov and Segerer (2007) anddistinguishes four places of articulation for labial(P), dental (and alveolar) (T), (alveo-)palatal (C)and velar (K) consonants.
A second grouping(LCD) only distinguishes three places of articula-tion: labial (L), coronal (C) and dorsal (D).2 Ac-cording to this classification the consonants of allthe items in the database can be assigned to one ofthese symbols, as shown in Table 2.LCD PTCK ASJP IPAL Pp, b, m, f, v, w p, F, b, B, m,f, v, wCT8, 4, t, d, s, z,c, n, S, ZT, D, n?, t, d, s,z, ts, dz, n, S,ZCC, j, T, l, L, r,y?, ?, c, ?, l, L,?, L, r, R, jD K5, k, g, x, N,q, G, X, 7, h?, k, g, x, G, N,q, G, X, K, ?,Q, P, h, H,Table 2: Assignment of consonants to symbols.All varieties of ?click?-sounds have been ignored.2Radical and laryngeal, which are commonly employedin the phonological literature as yet another place distinction,are subsumed under dorsal.Experiments with using the four-way distinc-tion vs. the three-way distinction showed that Tand C in the four-way grouping behave very simi-larly with respect to the transitions to other placesof articulation (see Section 4.2).
We therefore de-cided to use the three-way distinction for the bulkof our calculations and visualizations and onlysporadically resort to the four-way grouping whena more fine-grained distinction is needed.Furthermore, we decided to only include thosecases where the first and second consonants arepreceded (or followed, respectively) by anothervowel or a word boundary and are therefore notpart of a consonant cluster.
We mainly did this inorder to minimize the noise caused by consonantsof inflectional markers that tend to assimilate insuch clusters.In the literature on root morphemes in Semitic,it has been noted that the consonants within trilit-eral radicals behave differently with respect toOCP.
Greenberg (1950:162) remarks that whilethe first and second consonants are usually notidentical, the same does not hold for the sec-ond and third consonants, which frequently consti-tute the well-known geminate subtype of Semiticverbs.
However, for our work we understand OCPas it was later formulated within the frameworkof autosegmental phonology (Leben, 1973; Mc-Carthy, 1986; Goldsmith, 1976) in that adjacentidentical elements (here in the sense of identicalwith respect to place of articulation) are prohib-ited, under the assumption that consonants are ad-jacent to each other (on the C tier) even when theyare separated by vowels in the linear sequence ofphonemes within the word.For the purposes of our experiment, we con-sidered the relevant context for adjacency to beone where consonants are separated by exactly onevowel.3 Note that since the basis for our calcula-tions were not stems in the language but the cita-tion forms that are used in the Swadesh lists, wealso get noise from inflectional markers that areattached to these forms and might have the sameplace of articulation irrespective of the stem towhich they attach.4Finally, there are several shortcomings of the3Since vowel length is not marked in the ASJP database,long vowels are also included.4Assimilation processes are far more frequent than dis-similation processes in this context so that it is more likelythat the same place of articulation features are to be expectedwhen an inflectional marker is present.72material in the database with respect to our investi-gation which must be kept in mind.
OCP/SPA hasbeen claimed to apply with respect to underlyingor non-derived representations.
Previous work hasbeen done on the basis of stem (or root) lists.
De-pending on the language, Swadesh list items arenot always stems, but whole words in their cita-tion forms.
For instance, while both English andGerman use the infinitive as the citation form forverbal stems, in English the infinitive is identicalto the stem whereas in German it is marked withthe suffix -en.
In other languages, verbs can alsobe cited by inflected forms other than the infinitive(e.g., the 3rd person singular perfective in Arabic,or the first person singular indicative present inLatin).
The same holds for nouns or other wordclasses that are included in the Swadesh list.
An-other problematic aspect is the fact that it also con-tains items (such as personal pronouns) that arenot lexical in the strict sense of the meaning andare realized as bound forms in many languages.Apart from that, the number of items for eachlanguage in the ASJP database varied greatly fromonly a few to one hundred.
Moreover, the num-ber of CVC sequences within the items differedgreatly from one language to another, dependingon the phonotactic properties of the languages.Previous statistical studies have relied on a muchlarger number of stems and consonant sequences.Pozdniakov and Segerer?s (2007) statistics, for ex-ample, were calculated on the basis of 495 to17,944 CVC successions for the languages in theirsample.5 In contrast, our statistics are based onmuch fewer CVC successions, ranging from 21 to246 per language.
Nevertheless, our results actu-ally correspond to the main findings of their studyso that we think that the data are good enough forour purposes.4 Automated statistical analysis4.1 MethodologyIn a first step, for each language in the samplean elementary statistical processing is performed.Thereby, all successions of places of articulationoccurring in the Swadesh list items are identifiedand counted.
To do so, we define a succession of5Note that they also included cases where the first andsecond consonant are part of a consonant cluster, which weignored for our calculations.
Furthermore, those languageswhere the number of consonant successions in the data was20 or below were not included in our visualizations, therebyreducing the number of languages from about 4,500 to 3,200.places of articulation as a binary sequence of con-sonants (C-C).
These consonants have to appearwithin a word and have to be separated by exactlyone vowel (V).
Before and after the succession ei-ther word boundaries (#) or vowels have to ap-pear.
Hence, the following regular expression isused to extract C-C successions (marked in bold):[#|V ]CV C[#|V ].
Next, each consonant is as-signed to one of the three major articulation placecategories labial, coronal and dorsal.
The succes-sion counts are summarized in a quadratic matrixwhere the rows represent the preceding place of ar-ticulation and the columns the following place ofarticulation.
Each matrix cell contains the numberof times the respective place of articulation suc-cession could be observed in the corpus.
Subse-quently, for each of the 9 possible successions acontingency table was created (Table 3).P2 ?P2P1 A : n(P1 ?
P2) B: n(P1 ?
?P2)?P1 C : n(?P1 ?
P2) D : n(?P1 ?
?P2)Table 3: Contingency table for the articulationplace (P) succession from P1 to P2.The succession counts were used to calculate ?coefficients, where A,B,C and D correspond tothe four cells in Table 3.?
=?
?2(A+B + C +D)(1)The ?
coefficient is a measure for the degreeof association between two variables which canbe derived from the fourfold ?2 statistical signif-icance test (see Rummel, 1970:298f for details).Sample ?
values for the place of articulation suc-cessions of Egyptian Arabic can be seen in Table4.
A visual representation of the same matrix isprovided in Figure 2.
Note the at-a-glance analy-sis made possible by Figure 2 vs. Table 4.labial coronal dorsallabial ?0.360 +0.187 +0.183coronal +0.259 ?0.243 ?0.068dorsal ?0.010 +0.097 ?0.121Table 4: Matrix of ?
values for Egyptian Arabic.Figure 2 shows an example in which all diag-onal values (self-successions of places of articu-lation) have negative associations.
This tendency73Figure 2: Visualization of the ?
matrix from Ta-ble 4 (Egyptian Arabic), L stands for labial, C forcoronal and D for dorsal.
It can be seen that all di-agonal values (successions of the same place of ar-ticulation) have negative associations (red color).to alternate places of articulation can be observedin most languages and in the overall matrix visu-alizations including all data from all languages inthe database (Figure 4).4.2 General relations among places ofarticulationAs already mentioned, we tested whether it is use-ful to distinguish the two different subcategoriesdental (and alveolar) (T), and (alveo-)palatal (C).Figure 3 shows the resulting association values ?of place successions.It can clearly be seen that T and C behave verysimilarly.
A further interesting observation is thatplaces of articulation tend to alternate (negative di-agonal values for self-successions).
As revealed inthe succession graph of Figure 3, the places of ar-ticulation do not remain the same, but change tothe closest alternative(s).
In the case of P and Kthe closest distinct places of articulation (T and C)are preferred.
In the case of T and C, however, thisis somewhat different.
Apparently, direct alterna-tions between both are less probable.
One plau-sible explanation could be that they are not dis-tinct enough and thus either K or P are preferredas a following place of articulation, both havingroughly the same distance.
These observationsled us to merge the places T and C in our furtheranalyses and distinguish labial, coronal and dorsalconsonants only, as in Figure 4.Note that the cross pattern on the left in Figure4, which now emerges very clearly, reinforces thehypothesis that the closest distinct place of articu-lation is preferred as successor.Figure 4: The ?
matrix considering only the threemain categories for all the data across languages.In the left figure, the categories are sorted accord-ing to their position in the oral cavity.
In theright figure, the categories are sorted automati-cally, which shows that D and L are more similarto each other than D and C.4.3 Distribution across languagesNext, we examined the distribution of ?
values forself-successions of places of articulation in about3,200 languages.
Self-successions correspond tothe diagonal values of the ?
matrices from the up-per left to the lower right.
As can be seen in thehistogram in Figure 6, the peak of the distributionis clearly located in the area of negative associa-tion values.
In the box-plots of Figure 5, whichshow the distributions for all three places of ar-ticulation separately, it is clearly visible that foreach of the three places of articulation at least 75%of the languages included show negative associa-tions.
Furthermore, it can be seen that most out-liers disappear when taking only the languages forwhich most data is available and thus statistics aremore reliable.
The same can be seen in the scat-ter plot in Figure 6, where the average ?
value isalways negative if the number of successions ex-ceeds a certain threshold.
For all three categories,the figures demonstrate that the same place of ar-ticulation is generally less frequently maintainedthan expected if there were no interdependenciesbetween consonant co-occurrences.5 Visualization of geo-spatial patternsThe most common approach to visually representcrosslinguistic information on areal (or genealog-ical) patterns is to put each language as a singlepixel or a small icon to its location on a map.For instance, the WALS database (Haspelmath etal., 2005) includes 141 maps on diverse structural(phonological, grammatical, lexical) properties oflanguages.
We transformed the results of our SPAstatistics for each language in the ASJP database74PT CKFigure 3: Successions of P, T, C and K in all languages.
The ?+?
and ???
signs indicate the polarityof a succession (going from row to column category).
The color saturation of the background indicatesthe strength of association.
In the left figure, places of articulation are sorted according to their positionin the oral cavity, in the middle figure an automatic similarity sorting of matrix rows and columns wasapplied.
The right part of the figure shows an alternative view only on those successions that have apositive association.lllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllLabial?Labial Coronal?Coronal Dorsal?Dorsal?1.0?0.50.00.51.0Distribution of association values across languages (all)llllllLabial?Labial Coronal?Coronal Dorsal?Dorsal?1.0?0.50.00.51.0Distribution of association values across languages (top)Figure 5: Boxplots showing the distribution of association strength values (?)
for self-successions ofplaces of articulation.
For the left boxplots about 3,200 languages were considered for which theSwadesh lists contained more than 20 successions.
For the right boxplots only the top 99 languageswere considered for which the Swadesh lists contained at least 100 successions, thereby removing mostoutliers and reducing the variance.that is also included in the WALS database into aWALS map (Figure 7).
The matrix visualizationhas been simplified in that the color of the iconrepresents the number of cells in the diagonal ofthe matrix whose value was below zero, i.e., thehigher the number (0-3) the better the languageconforms to SPA.Some of the drawbacks of these maps include ahigh degree of overlap of data points in denselypopulated areas and the lack of correlation be-tween information content and area size.
In Figure7, the fact that those languages with fewer negativediagonal cells are plotted on top of those with ahigher number slightly distorts the overall picturethat most languages adhere to the principle.6 Be-sides that, the overall pattern in the densely popu-lated areas is hardly visible, while sparsely popu-lated areas waste space and hide the informational6Likewise, the visualization would suggest to much ad-herence to the principle if those languages with more nega-tive diagonal cells were plotted on top of those with fewernegative cells.75lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll50 100 150 200?0.4?0.20.00.20.4Average phi values in dependence of data amountNumber of consonant successions in datasetAveragephivalueLabial, Coronal and DorsalDistribution of association values for all self?successions across languagesFrequency?1.0 ?0.5 0.0 0.5 1.00100200300400500600Figure 6: The scatter plot on the left displays the average ?
values for self-successions of all places ofarticulation depending on the number of consonant successions (CVC) for each language in the sample.The histogram on the right shows the distribution of association strength values (?)
for self-successionsof places of articulation in more than 3200 languages.details.
Finally, small clusters are difficult to find?
they are not noticeable, and are sometimes evenobscured by large clusters.In order to avoid overlapping pixels we useda circular arrangement around the original loca-tion in the current analysis, taking the given order-ing of elements into account (Bak et al, 2009a).The ordering usually corresponds to the coloringattribute starting with colors that occur least fre-quently.
With this arrangement a natural lookingvisualization without artifacts is generated.A way to obtain more space for regions with ahigh point density are Cartograms, which distortregions such that their size corresponds to a statis-tical attribute (Bak et al, 2009b; Tobler, 2004), inthis case the number of languages in the database.The advantage is that more space is reserved toplot all important information on the map.
In Fig-ure 8, we show the density equalized distortion bycartograms and the overlap-free representation ofthe data points using pixel placement.
Neighbor-hood relations and region shapes are at the sametime maintained as accurately as possible in orderto guarantee recognizability despite of distortion.The visualization reveals several clusters of non-conforming languages (marked with boxes).
It re-mains for future work to investigate whether theseclusters are an artifact of the database that we usedor if they manifest an areal feature.
Figure 8, incontrast to Figure 7, shows the 3,200 languageswe investigated more closely and not just the onesincluded in WALS.The representation thereby enables investigat-ing spatial patterns free of hidden data and distri-butional biases.6 Conclusions and future workOur crosslinguistic investigation of SPA has con-firmed the hypothesis that the phenomenon ofSimilar Place Avoidance is not a particular traitof Semitic languages, for which it was previouslydescribed, but is a linguistic universal tendencywhich can be observed in languages which areboth genealogically and geographically unrelated.This can clearly be seen in the visualizations thatdisplay the conformity of each language in thedatabase with respect to SPA.
The overall pic-ture for all languages not only shows that succes-sive consonants with the same place of articulationtend to be avoided, but also that there is a tendencyto avoid places of articulation that are too far awayfrom the preceding place (cf.
Figures 3 and 4).We combine methods from statistics, NLP andVisual Analytics to provide a novel way of auto-matically assessing and visualizing linguistic fea-tures across a wide range of languages, thus al-76Figure 7: WALS map of the languages and their behavior with respect to SPA.
The color indicates thenumber of self-succession ?
values which are negative, i.e., which adhere to the SPA principle.
Colormapping is from blue (conforming to SPA) to red.
The numbers in square brackets indicate the numberof languages in this group.Figure 8: Density equalized distribution of the languages with respect to SPA.
The area of the geographicregions corresponds to the number of languages in that location ?
represented by dots.
Overlap is avoidedusing pixel-placement.
The color mapping corresponds to the one used in the WALS map (Figure 7).
Lo-cations of nonconforming languages are highlighted with red boxes.
Note that the number of languagesin this map is about twice the number in the WALS map (7).77lowing for a gain of new insights and raising fur-ther interesting research questions that otherwisemight easily go unrecognized.With respect to SPA a more detailed explorationof the intricacies of phonological interdepencies isneeded as part of our more widespread study ofvisually representing sound patterns in languages.As already hinted at in Pozdniakov and Segerer(2007), there are various other fascinating phe-nomena that are worth looking at, especially in re-gard to the interaction of vowels and consonants orvowel dependencies (such as vowel harmony) andconsonant dependencies (such as SPA or conso-nant harmony).
In particular, one could investigatewhy some languages apparently do not conform toSPA and if there is any co-variation to be uncov-ered between the adherence to the principle andother factors that might be interesting to exploreand possibly reveal new insights into the structureof languages.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been funded by the research ini-tiative ?Computational Analysis of Linguistic De-velopment?
at the University of Konstanz.
Theauthors would like to thank Aditi Lahiri and twoanonymous reviewers for valuable comments andsuggestions.ReferencesPeter Bak, Florian Mansmann, Halldor Janetzko, andDaniel Keim.
2009a.
Spatiotemporal analysis ofsensor logs using growth ring maps.
IEEE Trans-actions on Visualization and Computer Graphics,15(6):913?920.Peter Bak, Matthias Schaefer, Andreas Stoffel, DanielKeim, and Itzhak Omer.
2009b.
Density equalizingdistortion of large geographic point sets.
Journal ofCartographic and Geographic Information Science(CaGIS), 36(3):237?250.Balthasar Bickel.
in press.
Absolute and statistical uni-versals.
In Patrick C. Hogan, editor, The CambridgeEncyclopedia of the Language Sciences.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Paul Boersma and Bruce Hayes.
2001.
Empirical testsof the gradual learning algorithm.
Linguistic In-quiry, 32:45?86.Paula Fikkert and Clara C. Levelt.
2010.
How doesplace fall into place?
The lexicon and emergent con-straints in the developing phonological grammar.
InPeter Avery, B. Elan Dresher, and Keren Rice, edi-tors, Contrast in Phonology: Perception and Acqui-sition.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.John Goldsmith.
1976.
Autosegmental phonology.Ph.D.
thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Joseph H. Greenberg.
1950.
The patterning of rootmorphemes in Semitic.
Word, 6:161?182.Martin Haspelmath, Matthew S. Dryer, David Gil, andBernard Comrie.
2005.
The World Atlas of Lan-guage Structures Online.
URL: http://wals.info/.Gregory K. Iverson and Joseph C. Salmonts.
1992.The phonology of the Proto-Indo-European rootstructure constraint.
Lingua, 87:293?320.Daniel A. Keim, Florian Mansmann, Joern Schnei-dewind, Jim Thomas, and Hartmut Ziegler.
2008.Visual analytics: Scope and challenges.
In VisualData Mining: Theory, Techniques and Tools for Vi-sual Analytics, Lecture Notes in Computer Science,pages 76?91.
Springer.Wiliam R. Leben.
1973.
Suprasegmental phonology.Ph.D.
thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.John J. McCarthy.
1986.
OCP effects: Gemination andantigemination.
Linguistic Inquiry, 17:207?263.Frans Plank.
1981.
Morphologische (Ir-)Regularita?-ten: Aspekte der Wortstrukturtheorie.
Tu?bingen:Gunter Narr Verlag.Konstantin Pozdniakov and Guillaume Segerer.
2007.Similar Place Avoidance: A statistical universal.Linguistic Typology, 11(2):307?348.Christian Rohrdantz, Thomas Mayer, Miriam Butt,Frans Plank, and Daniel A. Keim.
2010.
Compar-ative visual analysis of cross-linguistic features.
InProceedings of the International Symposium on Vi-sual Analytics Science and Technology (EuroVAST2010), pages 27?32.Rudolph J. Rummel.
1970.
Applied Factor Analysis.Evanston, IL: Nortwestern University Press.James J. Thomas and Kristin A. Cook.
2005.
Illu-minating the Path: The Research and DevelopmentAgenda for Visual Analytics.
National Visualizationand Analytics Ctr.Waldo Tobler.
2004.
Thirty five years of computercartograms.
Association of American Geographer,94(1):58?73.78
