Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 207?211,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Overview of the CRAFT Concept Annotation GuidelinesMichael BadaLawrence E. HunterUniversity of Colorado DenverAnschutz Medical CampusAurora, CO, USAmike.bada@ucdenver.edularry.hunter@ucdenver.eduMiriam EckertMartha PalmerUniversity of Colorado BoulderBoulder, CO, USAmiriam_eckert@jdpa.commartha.palmer@colorado.eduAbstractWe present our concept-annotation guidelinesfor an large multi-institutional effort to createa gold-standard manually annotated corpus offull-text  biomedical  journal  articles.
We aresemantically annotating these documents withthe full term sets of eight large biomedical on-tologies and controlled terminologies rangingfrom approximately 1,000 to millions of terms,and, using these guidelines, we have been ableto  perform  this  extremely  challenging  taskwith  a  high  degree  of  interannotator  agree-ment.
The guidelines have been designed tobe able to be used with any terminology em-ployed to semantically annotate concept men-tions in text and are available for external use.1 IntroductionManually  annotated  gold-standard  corpora  arebecoming increasingly  critical  for  the  develop-ment  of  advanced NLP systems.
At  the  sametime, the use of ontologies as formal representa-tions of domain-specific knowledge is being seenin  a  wide range of  applications,  particularly  inthe biomedical domain.
We are synergisticallycreating a gold-standard corpus called the  Col-orado  Richly  Annotated  Full-Text  (CRAFT)Corpus  that  pushes  the  boundaries  of  both  ofthese  prominent  types  of  resources.
For  thisproject, we are manually annotating a collectionof 97 full-text biomedical journal articles com-prising a total  of  more than 750,000 words,  asopposed to the sentences or abstracts upon whichother gold-standard corpora have focused.
Addi-tionally,  while  most  other  related corpora  haveused  small  annotation  schemas  consisting  of  afew to several  dozen classes for  their  semanticannotation,  we  are  employing  the  full  sets  ofterms, ranging from approximately one thousandto several tens of thousands of terms, of selectontologies  of  the  Open  Biomedical  Ontologies(OBO)  Consortium,  the  most  prominent  set  ofbiomedical  ontologies  (Smith  et  al.,  2007),  aswell as several other significant large biomedicalcontrolled terminologies.
The terms of these on-tologies  and  terminologies,  which  serve  as  theclasses of the semantic annotation schema for thethis  corpus,  are  continually  under  developmentby biomedical researchers and knowledge engi-neers  and  are  widely  used  throughout  the  bio-medical  field,  as  opposed  to  other  annotationschemas that are often idiosyncratic and not like-ly reusable for other tasks.
Furthermore, thoughthese ontologies have been used for a variety ofNLP tasks, they have not been used in their en-tirety toward gold-standard markup of text.With regard to the CRAFT Corpus project, wehave  previously  written  of  desiderata  in  usinglarge ontologies and terminologies for semanticannotation of natural-language documents (Badaand Hunter, 2009a) and of semantic issues in theuse of  one of the  ontologies  we are  using,  theGene Ontology (Bada and Hunter,  2009b).
Inthis  paper,  we present  a  brief  overview  of  theconcept1 annotation guidelines we are using forthis corpus and the motivations behind our choic-es.
With these guidelines,  our annotators haveroutinely  achieved  90+%  agreement  with  theproject lead on all but the one most challengingterminological annotation passes, which current-ly is more than 80%.
The guidelines were de-signed  to  be  reusable  regardless  of  the1 Throughout this document, ?concept?, ?class?, and?term?
are used interchangeably.207ontology/terminology  being  used  for  semanticannotation, and we have indeed used them withminimal exceptions for concept annotation of ourcorpus  using  eight  orthogonal  large  ontologiesand terminologies.2 Overview of the CRAFT CorpusThe CRAFT Corpus is a collection of 97 full-textbiomedical  journal  articles  that  is  being  richlyannotated  both  syntactically  and  semanticallyand  is  designed  to  be  an  open  community  re-source for the development of advanced bioNLPsystems.
The 97 articles of the corpus comprisethe  intersection  of articles  that  are  open-accessand that have been used as evidential sources forGene Ontology (GO) annotations  of  genes andgene  products  of  the  laboratory  mouse  by  ourcollaborators who serve as the official GO cura-tors  of  the  preeminent  mouse  database.
(TheGO, the flagship OBO, is an ontology composedof three  subontologies  representing the specificmolecular  functions  (MF)  of  genes  and  geneproducts,  the  higher-level  biological  processes(BP) in which they participate, and the cellularcomponents (CC) in  which they localize  (Ash-burner et al, 2000).
GO annotations, which areentirely different from the annotations we discussin the work presented here, are created by label-ing genes and gene products of organisms withGO terms.
)These articles in their entirety are being syn-tactically  annotated  by  sentence  segmentation,tokenization,  part-of-speech  tagging,  and  tree-banking.
The articles'  nouns and noun phrasesare also being coreferentially  annotated (Cohenet al, 2010).
Though these branches constitute asignificant  amount  of  the  annotations  of  theproject, they are outside the scope of this paper.Furthermore, we are working on creating asser-tional  annotations  between the  concept  annota-tions via relations.Six ontologies of the OBO library and two ad-ditional  controlled  terminologies  have  thus  farbeen selected for concept annotation of these ar-ticles on the bases that these are relatively well-constructed knowledge representations, are wide-ly used by bioinformaticians and/or biomedicalresearchers, and represent concepts needed to ex-tract  significant  biomedical  assertions  from theliterature.
In  addition  to  the  three  aforemen-tioned GO ontologies,  the  OBOs that  were  se-lected for concept annotation are the Cell TypeOntology (CL),  which represents types of cells(Bard et al, 2005); the Chemical Entities of Bio-logical Interest (ChEBI) ontology, which repre-sents  types  of  small  molecules,  parts  of  mole-cules,  atoms,  and  subatomic  particles  (Degt-yarenko et al, 2008); and the Sequence Ontolo-gy  (SO),  which  represents  types  of  biologicalmacromolecules  and their  components  (Eilbecket al, 2005).
In addition to these ontologies, weare also annotating the articles with the terms ofthe NCBI Taxonomy, the most widely used Lin-naean hierarchy of biological organisms, and theunique identifiers  of the Entrez Gene database,the  preeminent  resource  for  species-specificgenes (Sayers et al, 2009).The  annotation  methodology,  not  presentedhere due to lack of space, has been presented in aprevious publication (Bada and Hunter, 2009a).3 Overview of the CRAFT Concept An-notation GuidelinesConcept  annotation entails  annotating text  withconcepts, i.e., classes or terms from ontologies orterminologies.
(We  use  this  more  expansiveterm as opposed to named-entity annotation sinceseveral of the terminologies we are using containterms  representing  processes  and  functions,which  are  annotated  just  as  terms  representingentities are.)
Every mention (including abbrevia-tions and misspellings) of every explicitly repre-sented concept of the ontology or terminology isannotated, and the text selected must be as se-mantically close as possible?essentially seman-tically equivalent?to  the term with with whichit is annotated.
Thus (as shown later), a mentionof platelets is semantically annotated with a termrepresenting  platelets  as  opposed  to  the  morecommon case of annotating with a more generalterm  (e.g., representing  cells)  selected  from  amuch smaller annotation schema.For each concept annotation, any selected textspan must be adjacent on each of its boundariesto an appropriate delimiter.
A whitespace char-acter most often serves as a delimiter:Ex.
1. localization: :of: :annexin: :A7::in: :platelets: :and: :red: :blood: :cells[PMID:129252382](Colons  indicate  possible  boundaries  ofannotations.)
Any  punctuation  mark  can  alsoserve as a delimiter indicating a boundary of anannotation:2 For each example, the PubMed ID of the biomedi-cal article from which it is extracted is shown.208Ex.
2.
To examine this:,: we analyzed theability of red blood cells derived from theannexin A7 mice :(:anxA7:-:/:-:): to formexovesicles:.
: [PMID:12925238]Finally,  beginnings and ends of documents canserve as boundaries of annotations.It  is  important  to note that  letters  (includingnon-Latin letters) and numbers can never serveas  delimiters.
Practically,  this  means  that  anannotation text span can never begin or end inbetween two letters,  between  two numbers,  orbetween a number and a letter.
These delimiterswere chosen so that the annotator would not beburdened  with  the  very  difficult  and  time-consuming  task  of  having  to  figure  out  whatevery  letter  of  every  abbreviation  representedand whether they should be annotated; similarly,this avoids evaluation of any arbitrary part of anyword (e.g.,  whether the  "cyto"  of  "cytological"should be annotated with the term cell3).
Thischoice  of  delimiters  sometimes  prevents  theannotator from creating an annotation that he orshe may wish to create,  but  in  our experience,this  is  a  relatively  rare  occurrence,  and  it  is  asmall  price  to  pay  for  greatly  simplifying  analready  extremely  large  and  difficult  task.Furthermore, it is a straighforward rule for bothhuman and computational annotators to follow.One primary motivation behind our strategy ofannotating only explicitly represented concepts isthe  capture  of  the  exact  semantics  of  textualmentions; conversely, annotating a textual men-tion with a more general term (e.g.,  annotating?platelet?
with cell) entails loss of knowledge.A second motivation is that of making this taskof semantic annotation doable: The alternative ofannotating every mention of the concepts withinthe domain of a given terminology including allconcepts within the domain that are not explicitlyrepresented in the terminology rapidly becomesan  overwhelming task  with  even  a  moderatelysized terminology.
For example, using this alter-native strategy to annotate all mentions of ChEBIchemical concepts explicitly represented or not,if an annotator came across a mention of a chem-ical not represented in the ontology,  e.g., iodix-anol,  assuming he  were  not  intimately  familiarwith the structure and function of iodixanol, hewould have to first research this.
From amongthe thousands of structural terms, he would haveto annotate this mention with all relevant terms3 Names of ontological concepts are rendered infixed?width?type throughout this document.pertaining  to  its  structure  such  as  amides,polyols,  aromatic ?
compounds,  andorganoiodine?compounds since this com-pound  contains  the  corresponding  chemicalgroups that define these types of molecules (andnone of these terms subsumes another).
Further-more, he would have to evaluate annotating withall  relevant  terms from among the  hundreds ofChEBI  functional  terms  (e.g.,  xenobiotic,base,  chromophore,  cofactor).
Thisenormous amount of work becomes even moredifficult when working with concepts that are notas precisely defined as, for example, the chemi-cal structure terms.Text spans that can be considered for annota-tion are dictated by syntax, and the text that is se-lected must be semantically equivalent to a termin the ontology/terminology.
For example, for anoun,  any modifying  adjective  or  prepositionalphrase can be considered for inclusion in the an-notation  if  its  inclusion  results  in  a  semanticmatch to a concept in the ontology/terminology.Fig.
1.
Part of the GO BP cellular?lipid?metabolic?process hierar-chy.Ex.
3: Skeletal muscle is a major site toregulate whole-body fatty-acid and glu-cose metabolism.
[PMID:15328533]In Ex.
3, ?metabolism?
along with its premodify-ing ?fatty-acid?
(but  not  with its  premodifying?whole-body?)
are  selected  for  one  annotation,as this is a semantic match to the GO term fat?ty?acid?metabolic?process.
Deter-miners and quantifiers are never included in con-cept annotation.
Note that this is an example of adiscontinuous annotation?an annotation consist-ing of two or more discontinuous spans of text,which is unambiguously represented as standoff.The use of one or more terminologies in thesemantic markup of text may result  in overlap-ping and nesting annotations.
Overlapping refersto the overlapping of the selected text of an an-notation, in  part  or  in  whole, with the selectedtext of another annotation.
Nesting is a type ofoverlapping in which the selected text of an an-notation is a proper subset of the selected text of209another another.
A nested annotation is createdonly if it is to be annotated with a term that is nota superclass of the term used in the nesting anno-tation.
This is a trivial evaluation if the terms forthe nesting and nested annotations are from dif-ferent terminologies,  as one cannot be a super-class of the other; if the terms are from the sameterminology, one may or may not be a superclassof the other.
There are no corresponding restric-tions  for  overlapping  annotations  that  are  notnesting/nested annotations.The full CRAFT Corpus annotation guidelinescan  be  viewed  at  http://bionlp-corpora.source-forge.net/CRAFT/CRAFT_concept_annotation_guidelines.pdf and are available for use by othersunder a specified Creative Commons license.4 ResultsTo date, we have created more than 107,000 con-cept annotations; these are broken down by ter-minology in Table 1.Terminology # Annotations # ArticlesChEBI 15,313 97CL 8,290 97Entrez Gene* 5,618 29GO BP* 22,101 91GO CC 7,247 97GO MF* 5,563 91NCBI Taxonomy 11,202 97SO 32,502 97Total 107,836 -Table 1.
Current counts of annotationsand articles; * indicates an ongoing pass.To  illustrate  the  utility  of  our  guidelines,  wepresent the IAAs for six terminological passes ofthe corpus.
As seen in Figs.
2 and 3, the annota-tors  quickly reach and with few exceptions re-main at a 90+% IAA level for all of the termino-logical passes except for the extremely challeng-ing (and ongoing) GO BP & MF pass, currentlyat  a  typical  80-85%.
As presented previously,most of these data points are single-blind statis-tics; however, as a control, a small number wereannotated  double-blind,  including  three  articlesannotated with the SO, which resulted in an IAAof 89.9%, compared with a single-blind IAA of90.4%  for  the  previous  week,  suggesting  thatthese single-blind IAAs are unlikely to be signif-icantly biased.Fig.
2.
IAA vs. number of training ses-sions for annotation of the corpus withChEBI, GO BP & MF, and GO CC.Fig.
3.
IAA vs. number of training ses-sions for annotation of the corpus withSO, CL, and NCBI Taxonomy.5 ConclusionsWe have succinctly presented our concept-anno-tation  guidelines,  with  which  we  routinelyachieve high IAAs in the semantic annotation offull-text  biomedical  journal  articles.
The  deci-sions behind these guidelines were made to max-imally facilitate both manual and programmaticannotation of text with the full term sets of termi-nologies, particularly large ones.
Foremost, thedecision to annotate a part of the text with a termis based on whether this text is a direct semanticmatch to an explicitly represented term, and thespecific  selection  of text  is  cleanly dictated bysyntactic rules.
Additionally,  to greatly reducethe workload of our human annotators, a nestedannotation is created only if the term to be usedis not a superclass of the term used to annotatethe  nesting  concept  mention.
These  guidelineswere designed to be used with any ontology orterminology and are available for others to use.AcknowledgmentsThe authors gratefully acknowledge their supportby NIH 5G08M009639 and 5T15 LM009451.210ReferencesAshburner M, Ball CA, Blake JA, Botstein D, ButlerH, Cherry JM, Davis AP, Dolinski K, Dwight SS, Ep-pig JT, Harris MA, Hill DP, Issel-Tarver L, KasarskisA, Lewis S, Matese JC, Richardson JE, Ringwald M,Rubin GM, Sherlock G.  2000.
Gene Ontology: toolfor the unification of biology.
Nat Genetics, 25:25-29.Bada, M. and Hunter, L. 2009a.
Using Large Termi-nologies to Semantically Annotate Concept Mentionsin Natural-Language Documents.
Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Knowledge Capture (K-CAP) Semantic Authoring, Annotation and Knowl-edge Markup (SAAKM) Workshop 2009, RedondoBeach, CA, USA.Bada, M. and Hunter, L. 2009b.
Using the Gene On-tology to Annotate Biomedical Journal Articles.
Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on Biomedi-cal Ontology (ICBO) 2009, Buffalo, NY, USA.Bard, J., Rhee, S. Y., and Ashburner, M. 2005.
An on-tology for cell types.
Genome Biology, 6(2), R21.Cohen, K. B., Lanfranchi, A., Corvey, W., Baumgart-ner, Jr., W. A., Roeder, C., Ogren, P. V., Palmer, M.,and Hunter, L. E. 2010.
Annotation of all coreferencein biomedical text: Guideline selection and adapta-tion.
Proceedings of the 7th Language Resources andEvaluation Conference (LREC) Workshop on Build-ing and Evaluating Resources for Biomedical TextMining (BioTxtM), Valletta, Malta.Degtyarenko, K., de Matos, P., Ennis, M., Hastings,J., Zbinden, M., McNaught, A., Alc?ntara, R., Dar-sow, M., Guedj, M., and Ashburner, M. 2008.
ChEBI:a database and ontology for chemical entities of bio-logical interest.
Nucleic Acids Research, 36, Data-base Issue:D344-D350.Eilbeck, K., Lewis, S. E., Mungall, C. J., Yandell, M.,Stein, L., Durbin, R., and Ashburner, M. 2005.
TheSequence Ontology: a tool for the unification ofgenome annotations.
Genome Biology 6, R44.Sayers, E. W., Barrett, T., Benson, D. A., Bryant, S.H., Canese, K., Chetvernin, V., Church, D. M.,DiCuccio, M., Edgar, R., Federhen, S., Feolo, M.,Geer, L. Y., Helmberg, W., Kapustin, Y., Landsman,D., Lipman, D. J., Madden, T. L., Maglott, D. R.,Miller, V., Mizrachi, I., Ostell, J., Pruitt, K. D.,Schuler, G. D., Sequeira, E., Sherry, S. T., Shumway,M., Sirotkin, K., Souvarov, A., Starchenko, G.,Tatusova, T. A., Wagner, L., Yaschenko, E., and Ye,J.
2009.
Database resources of the National Centerfor Biotechnology Information.
Nucleic Acids Re-search, 37, Database Issue:D5-15.211
