Tense and Aspect Assignment in Narrative DiscourseDavid K. Elson and Kathleen R. McKeownDepartment of Computer ScienceColumbia University{delson,kathy}@cs.columbia.eduAbstractWe describe a method for assigning Englishtense and aspect in a system that realizes sur-face text for symbolically encoded narratives.
Ourtestbed is an encoding interface in which proposi-tions that are attached to a timeline must be real-ized from several temporal viewpoints.
This in-volves a mapping from a semantic encoding oftime to a set of tense/aspect permutations.
Theencoding tool realizes each permutation to givea readable, precise description of the narrative sothat users can check whether they have correctlyencoded actions and statives in the formal repre-sentation.
Our method selects tenses and aspectsfor individual event intervals as well as subinter-vals (with multiple reference points), quoted andunquoted speech (which reassign the temporal fo-cus), and modal events such as conditionals.1 IntroductionGeneration systems that communicate knowledgeabout time must select tense and aspect carefullyin their surface realizations.
An incorrect assign-ment can give the erroneous impression that a con-tinuous action has ended, or that a previous stateis the current reality.
In this paper, we considerEnglish tense and aspect in the generation of nar-rative discourse, where statives and actions occurover connected intervals.We describe two contributions: first, a generalapplication of theories of tense, aspect and inter-val logic to a generation context in which we maptemporal relationships to specific tense/aspect se-lections.
Second, we describe an implementationof this approach in an interactive environment witha basic sentence planner and realizer.
The first re-sult does not depend on the second.The purpose of the system is to allow users whoare na?
?ve to linguistics and knowledge representa-tion to create semantic encodings of short stories.To do this, they construct propositions (predicate-argument structures) through a graphical, menu-based interface, and assign them to intervals on atimeline.
Figure 1 shows a session in which theuser is encoding a fable of Aesop.
The top-rightpanel shows the original fable, and the left-handpanel shows a graphical timeline with buttons forconstructing new propositions at certain intervals.The left-hand and bottom-right panels contain au-tomatically generated text of the encoded story, asthe system understands it, from different points ofview.
Users rely on these realizations to check thatthey have assigned the formal connections cor-rectly.
The tenses and aspects of these sentencesare a key component of this feedback.
We describethe general purpose of the system, its data model,and the encoding methodology in a separate paper(Elson and McKeown, 2010).The paper is organized as follows: After dis-cussing related work in Section 2, we describe ourmethod for selecting tense and aspect for singleevents in Section 3.
Section 4 follows with morecomplex cases involving multiple events and shiftsin temporal focus.
We then discuss the results.2 Related WorkThere has been intense interest in the interpre-tation of tense and aspect into a formal under-standing of the ordering and duration of events.This work has been in both linguistics (Dowty,1979; Nerbonne, 1986; Vlach, 1993) and natu-ral language understanding.
Early systems inves-tigated rule-based approaches to parsing the du-rations and orderings of events from the tensesand aspects of their verbs (Hinrichs, 1987; Web-ber, 1987; Song and Cohen, 1988; Passonneau,1988).
Allen (1984) and Steedman (1995) focuson distinguishing between achievements (when anevent culminates in a result, such as John buildsa house) and processes (such as walking).
MoreFigure 1: Screenshot of our story encoding interface.recent work has centered on markup languagesfor complex temporal information (Mani, 2004)and corpus-based (statistical) models for predict-ing temporal relationships on unseen text (Mani etal., 2006; Lapata and Lascarides, 2006).Our annotation interface requires a fast realizerthat can be easily integrated into an interactive, on-line encoding tool.
We found that developing acustom realizer as a module to our Java-based sys-tem was preferable to integrating a large, generalpurpose system such as KPML/Nigel (Matthiessenand Bateman, 1991) or FUF/SURGE (Elhadadand Robin, 1996).
These realizers, along with Re-alPro (Lavoie and Rambow, 1997), accept tense asa parameter, but do not calculate it from a semanticrepresentation of overlapping time intervals suchas ours (though the Nigel grammar can calculatetense from speech, event, and reference time or-derings, discussed below).
The statistically trainedFERGUS (Chen et al, 2002) contrasts with ourrule-based approach.Dorr and Gaasterland (1995) and Grote (1998)focus on generating temporal connectives, such asbefore, based on the relative times and durations oftwo events; Gagnon and Lapalme (1996) focus ontemporal adverbials (e.g., when to insert a knowntime of day for an event).
By comparison, we ex-tend our approach to cover direct/indirect speechand the subjunctive/conditional forms, which theydo not report implementing.
While our work fo-cuses on English, Yang and Bateman (2009) de-scribe a recent system for generating Chinese as-pect expressions based on a time interval represen-tation, using KPML as their surface realizer.Several other projects run tangential to our in-teractive narrative encoding project.
Callawayand Lester?s STORYBOOK (2002) aims to im-prove fluency and discourse cohesion in realiz-ing formally encoded narratives; Ligozat and Zock(1992) allow users to interactively construct sen-tences in various temporal scenarios through agraphical interface.3 Expressing single events3.1 Temporal knowledgeThe propositions that we aim to realize take theform of a predicate, one or more arguments, zeroor more attached modifiers (either a negation oper-ator or an adverbial, which is itself a proposition),and an assignment in time.
Each argument is asso-ciated with a semantic role (such as Agent or Ex-periencer), and may include nouns (such as char-acters) or other propositions.
In our implementedsystem, the set of predicates available to the an-notator is adapted from the VerbNet (Kingsburyand Palmer, 2002) and WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998)linguistic databanks.
These provide both durativeactions and statives (Dowty, 1979); we will referto both as events as they occur over intervals.
Forexample, here are an action and a stative:walk(Mary, store, 2, 6) (1)hungry(Julia, 1,?)
(2)The latter two arguments in (1) refer to timestates in a totally ordered sequence; Mary startswalking to the store at state 2 and finishes walkingat state 6.
(2) begins at state 1, but is unbounded(Julia never ceases being hungry).
While this pa-per does not address the use of reference times(such as equating a state to 6:00 or yesterday), thisis an area of ongoing work.
(1) and (2), depending on the situation, can berealized in several aspects and tenses.
We adaptand extend Reichenbach?s (1947) famous systemof symbols for distinguishing between simple andprogressive aspect.
Reichenbach identifies threepoints that define the temporal position of theevent: the event time E, the speech time S, anda reference time R which may or may not be in-dicated by a temporal adverbial.
The total order-ing between these times dictates the appropriateaspect.
For example, the simple past John laughedhas the relation E < S. R = E because there isno separate reference time involved.
The past per-fect John had laughed [by the end of the play] hasthe relation E < R < S, in that it describe ?thepast of the past?, with the nearer ?past?
being R(the end of the play).
R can be seen as the tempo-ral focus of the sentence.As Reichenbach does not address events withintervals, we redefine E as the transition (E1..E2)attached to the proposition (for example, (2,6)for Mary?s walk).
This definition deliberately as-sumes that no event ever occurs over a single ?in-stant?
of time.
The perception of an instantaneousevent, when it is needed, is instead created by di-lating R into an interval large enough to containthe entire event, as in Dowty (1979).We also distinguish between two generationmodes: realizing the story as a complete discourse(narration mode) and describing the content of asingle state or interval (snapshot mode).
Our sys-tem supports both modes differently.
In discoursemode, we realize the story as if all events occur be-fore the speech time S, which is the style of mostliterary fiction.
(We shall see that this does notpreclude the use of the future tense.)
In snapshotmode, speech time is concurrent with referencetime so that the same events are realized as thoughthey are happening ?now.?
The system uses thismode to allow annotators to inspect and edit whatoccurs at any point in the story.
In Figure 1, for in-stance, the lion?s watching of the bull is realized asboth a present, continuing event in snapshot mode(the lion continues to watch the bull) and narratedas a past, continuing event (the lion was watchingthe bull).
In both cases, we aim to precisely trans-late the propositions and their temporal relation-ships into text, even if the results are not elegantrhetoric, so that annotators can see how they haveDiagram Relations PerspectiveE 1 R E 2R < E1 BeforeE 1 RE 2 R = E1R < E2 BeginE 1 RE 2 E1 < RR < E2 DuringE 1 R E 2R = E2R > E1FinishE 1 R E 2R > E2 AfterTable 1: Perspective assignment for viewing anevent from a reference state.formally encoded the story.
In the remainder ofthis section, we describe our method for assigningtenses and aspects to propositions such as these.3.2 Reference stateIn both snapshot and narration modes, we oftenneed to render the events that occur at some ref-erence state R. We would like to know, for in-stance, what is happening now, or what happenedat 6:00 yesterday evening.
The tense and aspectdepend on the perspective of the reference stateon the event, which can be bounded or unbounded.The two-step process for this scenario is to deter-mine the correct perspective, then pick the tenseand aspect class that best communicates it.We define the set of possible perspec-tives to follow Allen (1983), who describesseven relationships between two intervals: be-fore/after, meets/met by, overlaps/overlapped by,starts/started by, during/contains, finishes/finishedby, and equals.
Not all of these map to a relation-ship between a single reference point and an eventinterval.
Table 1 maps each possible interactionbetween E and R to a perspective, for bothbounded and unbounded events, including thedefining relationships for each interaction.
A dia-mond for E1 indicates at or before, i.e., the eventis either anteriorly unbounded (E1 = ??)
orbeginning at a state prior to R and E2.
Similarly,a diamond for E2 indicates at or after.Once the perspective is determined, coveringReichenbach?s E and R, speech time S is deter-mined by the generation mode.
Following theguidelines of Reichenbach and Dowty, we then as-sign a tense for each perspective/speech time per-Perspective Generation mode English tense System?s construction ExampleAfter Future Speech Past perfect had {PAST PARTICIPLE} She had walked.Present Speech Present perfect has/have {PAST PARTICIPLE} She has walked.Past Speech Future perfect will have {PAST PARTICIPLE} She will have walked.Modal Infinitive to have {PAST PARTICIPLE} To have walked.Finish Future Speech ?Finished?
stopped {PROGRESSIVE} She stopped walking.Present Speech ?Finishes?
stops {PROGRESSIVE} She stops walking.Past Speech ?Will finish?
will stop {PROGRESSIVE} She will stop walking.Modal Infinitive to stop {PROGRESSIVE} To stop walking.During Future Speech Past progressive was/were {PROGRESSIVE} She was walking.Present Speech Present pro-gressiveam/is/are {PROGRESSIVE} She is walking.Past Speech Future progres-sivewill be {PROGRESSIVE} She will be walking.Modal Infinitive to be {PROGRESSIVE} To be walking.During-AfterFuture Speech Past perfectprogressivehad been {PROGRESSIVE} She had been walking.Present Speech Present perfectprogressivehas/have been {PROGRESSIVE} She has been walking.Past Speech Future perfectprogressivewill have been {PROGRESSIVE} She will have beenwalking.Modal Infinitive to has/have been {PROGRESSIVE} To have been walking.Begin Future Speech ?Began?
began {INFINITIVE} She began to walk.Present Speech ?Begins?
begins {INFINITIVE} She begins to walk.Past Speech ?Will begin?
will begin {INFINITIVE} She will begin to walk.Modal Infinitive to begin {PROGRESSIVE} To begin walking.Contains Future Speech Simple past {SIMPLE PAST} She walked.Present Speech Simple present {SIMPLE PRESENT} She walks.Past speech Simple future will {INFINITIVE} She will walk.Modal Infinitive {INFINITIVE} To walk.Before Future Speech ?Posterior?
was/were going {INFINITIVE} She was going to walk.Present Speech Future am/is/are going {INFINITIVE} She is going to walk.Past Speech Future-of-futurewill be going {INFINITIVE} She will be going towalk.Modal Infinitive to be going {INFINITIVE} To be going to walk.Table 2: Tense/aspect assignment and realizer constructions for describing an action event from a partic-ular perspective and speech time.
?Progressive?
means ?present participle.
?mutation in Table 2.
Not all permutations map toactual English tenses.
Narration mode is shown asFuture Speech, in that S is in the future with re-spect to all events in the timeline.
(This is the caseeven if E is unbounded, with E2 = ?.)
Snap-shot mode is realized as Present Speech, in thatR = S. The fourth column indicates the syntac-tic construction with which our system realizes thepermutation.
Each is a sequence of tokens that areeither cue words (began, stopped, etc.)
or conjuga-tions of the predicate?s verb.
These constructionsemphasize precision over fluency.As we have noted, theorists have distinguishedbetween ?statives?
that are descriptive (John washungry), ?achievement?
actions that culminate ina state change (John built the house), and ?activi-ties?
that are more continuous and divisible (Johnread a book for an hour) (Dowty, 1979).
Priorwork in temporal connectives has taken advantageof lexical information to determine the correct sit-uation and assign aspect appropriately (Moens andSteedman, 1988; Dorr and Gaasterland, 1995).
Inour case, we only distinguish between actions andstatives, based on information from WordNet andVerbNet.
We use a separate table for statives; it issimilar to Table 2, except the constructions replaceverb conjugations with insertions of be, been, be-ing, was, were, felt, and so on (with the latter ap-plying to affective states).
We do not currentlydistinguish between achievements and activities inselecting tense and aspect, except that the anno-tator is tasked with ?manually?
indicating a newstate when an event culminates in one (e.g., Thehouse was complete).
Recognizing an achieve-ment action can benefit lexical choice (better tosay John finished building the house than Johnstopped) and content selection for the discourse asa whole (the house?s completion is implied by fin-ished and does not need to be stated separately).To continue our running examples, supposepropositions (1) and (2) were viewed as a snap-shot from state R = 2.
Table 1 indicates BeginDiagram Relations PerspectiveE 2 R 2 E 1 R 1E 2 R 2 E 1 R 1R1 ?
E2 AfterE 2 R 2 E 1 R 1R1 > E1E2 > R1R2 > E2FinishE 2 R 2 E 1 R 1E 2 R 2E 1 R 1R1 ?
E1R2 ?
E2ContainsE 2 R 2E 1 R 1E1 < R1E2 > R2DuringE 2 R 2E 1 R 1R1 < E1R2 > E1E2 > R2BeginE 2 R 2E 1 R 1E 2 R 2E 1 R 1E1 ?
R2 BeforeTable 3: Perspective assignment for describing anevent from an assigned perspective.to be the perspective for (1), since E1 = R, andTable 2 calls for a ?new?
tense/aspect permutationthat means ?begins at the present time.?
When theappropriate construction is inserted into the over-all syntax for walk(Agent, Destination), which wederive from the VerbNet frame for walk, the resultis Mary begins to walk to the store; similarly, (2) isrealized as Julia is hungry via the During perspec-tive.
Narration mode invokes past-tense verbs.3.3 Reference intervalJust as events occur over intervals, rather than sin-gle points, so too can reference times.
One mayneed to express what occurred when ?Julia enteredthe room?
(a non-instantaneous action) or ?yes-terday evening.?
Our system allows annotators toview intervals in snapshot mode to get a sense ofwhat happens over a certain time span.The semantics of reference intervals have beenstudied as extensions to Reichenbach?s point ap-proach.
Dowty (1979, p.152), for example, positsthat the progressive fits only if the reference in-terval is completely contained within the event in-terval.
Following this, we construct an alternatelookup table (Table 3) for assigning the perspec-Diagram Relations PerspectiveE 2 R 2E2 > R2E1 = ?
?R1 = ?
?During (a priori)E 2 R 2R2 > E2E1 = ?
?R1 = ?
?AfterE 1 R 1R1 > E1E2 =?R2 =?ContainsE 1 R 1E1 > R1E2 =?R2 =?BeforeTable 4: Perspective assignment if event and ref-erence intervals are unbounded in like directions.tive of an event from a reference interval.
Table2 then applies in the same manner.
In snapshotmode, the speech time S also occurs over an inter-val (namely, R), and Present Speech is still used.In narration mode, S is assumed to be a point fol-lowing all event and reference intervals.
In ourrunning example, narrating the interval (1,7) re-sults in Mary walked to the store and Julia beganto be hungry, using the Contains and Begin per-spectives respectively.The notion of an unbounded reference interval,while unusual, corresponds to a typical perspec-tive if the event is either bounded or unboundedin the opposite direction.
These scenarios are il-lustrated in Table 3.
Less intuitive are the caseswhere event and reference intervals are unboundedin the same direction.
Perspective assignments forthese instances are described in Table 4 and em-phasize the bounded end of R. These situationsoccur rarely in this generation context.3.4 Event SubintervalsWe do not always want to refer to events in theirentirety.
We may instead wish to refer to the be-ginning, middle or end of an event, no matter whenit occurs with respect to the reference time.
Thisinvokes a second reference point in the same inter-val (Comrie, 1985, p.128), delimiting a subinter-val.
Consider John searches for his glasses versusJohn continues to search for his glasses?
both in-dicate an ongoing process, but the latter implies asubinterval during which time, we are expected toknow, John was already looking for his glasses.Our handling of subintervals falls along fouralternatives that depend on the interval E1..E2,the reference R and the subinterval E?1..E?2 of E,where E?1 ?
E1 and E?2 ?
E2.1.
During-After.
If E?
is not a final subinter-val of E (E?2 < E2), and R = E?2 or R is asubinterval ofE that is met byE?
(R1 = E?2),the perspective of E?
is defined as During-After.
In Table 2, this invokes the perfect-progressive tense.
For example, viewing ex-ample (1) with E?
= (2, 4) from R = 4 innarration mode (Future Speech) would yieldMary had been walking to the store.2.
Start.
Otherwise, if E?
is an initial subin-terval of E (E?1 = E1 and E?2 < E2), theperspective is defined as Start.
These rowsare omitted from Table 2 for space reasons,but the construction for this case reassigns theperspective to that between R and E?.
Ourrealizer reassigns the verb predicate to begin(or become for statives) with a plan to renderits only argument, the original proposition, inthe infinitive tense.
For example, narrating(2) with E?
=(1,2) from R = 3 would yieldJulia had become hungry.3.
Continue.
Otherwise, and similarly, if Estrictly contains E?
(E?1 > E1 and E?2 < E2),we assign the perspective Continue.
To real-ize this, we reassign the perspective to thatbetween R and E?, and reassign the verbpredicate to continue (or was still for statives)with a plan to render its only argument, theoriginal proposition, in the infinitive.4.
End.
Otherwise, if E?
is a final subintervalof E (E?1 > E1 and E?2 = E2), we assign theperspective End.
To realize this, we reassignthe perspective to that betweenR andE?, andreassign the verb predicate to stop (or finishfor cumulative achievements).
Similarly, thepredicate?s argument is the original proposi-tion rendered in the infinitive.4 Alternate timelines and modalitiesThis section covers more complex situations in-volving alternate timelines?
the feature of our rep-resentation by which a proposition in the maintimeline can refer to a second frame of time.
Othermodels of time have supported similar encapsula-tions (Crouch and Pulman, 1993; Mani and Puste-jovsky, 2004).
The alternate timeline can containreferences to actual events or modal events (imag-ined, obligated, desired, planned, etc.)
in the pastthe future with respect to its point of attachment onE speechR?RE hungerE?
buyE?
hungerrealityalternateSFigure 2: Schematic of a speech act attaching toa alternate timeline with a hypothetical action.
R?and Espeech are attachment points.the main timeline.
This is primarily used in prac-tice for modeling dialogue acts, but it can also beused to place real events at uncertain time statesin the past (e.g., the present perfect is used in areference story being encoded).4.1 Reassigning Temporal FocusOgihara (1995) describes dialogue acts involvingchanges in temporal focus as ?double-access sen-tences.?
We now consider a method for planningsuch sentences in such a way that the refocusingof time (the reassignment of R into a new con-text) is clear, even if it means changing tense andaspect mid-sentence.
Suppose Mary were to de-clare that she would buy some eggs because ofJulia?s hunger, but before she returned from thestore, Julia filled up on snacks.
If this speech actis described by a character later in the story, thenwe need to carefully separate what is known toMary at the time of her speech from what is laterknown at R by the teller of the episode.
Marysees her purchase of eggs as a possible future, eventhough it may have already happened by the pointof retelling, and Mary does not know that Julia?shunger is to end before long.Following Hornstein?s treatment of these sce-narios (Hornstein, 1990), we attach R?, the ref-erence time for Mary?s statement (in an alternatetimeline), to Espeech, the event of her speaking (inthe main timeline).
The act of buying eggs is ahypothetical event E?buy that falls after R?
on thealternate (modal) timeline.
S is not reassigned.Figure 2 shows both timelines for this example.The main timeline is shown on top; Mary?s speechact is below.
The attachment point on the maintimeline is, in this case, the speech event Espeech;the attachment point on an alternate timeline is al-ways R?.
The placement of R, the main refer-ence point, is not affected by the alternate time-line.
Real events, such as Julia?s hunger, can beinvoked in the alternate timeline (as drawn with avertical line from Ehunger to an E?hunger withoutanE?2 known toMary) but they must preserve theirorder from the main timeline.The tense assignment for the event intervals inthe alternate timeline then proceeds as normal,withR?
substituting forR.
The hypothetical ?buy?event is seen in Before perspective, but past tense(Future Speech), giving the ?posterior?
(future-of-a-past) tense.
Julia?s hunger is seen as During asper Table 1.
Further, we assert that connectivessuch as Because do not alterR (or in this situation,R?
), and that the E?buy is connected to E?hungerwith a causality edge.
(Annotators can indicateconnectives between events for causality, motiva-tion and other features of narrative cohesion.
)The result is: Mary had said that shewas going to buy eggs because Julia was hungry.The subordinate clause following that sees E?buyin the future, and E?hunger as ongoing rather thanin the past.
It is appropriately ambiguous in boththe symbolic and rendered forms whetherE?buy oc-curs at all, and if so, whether it occurs before, dur-ing or after R. A discourse planner would havethe responsibility of pointing out Mary?s mistakenassumption about the duration of Julia?s hunger.We assign tense and aspect for quoted speechdifferently than for unquoted speech.
Instead ofholding S fixed, S?
is assigned to R?
at the attach-ment point of the alternate timeline (the ?presenttime?
for the speech act).
If future hypotheticalevents are present, they invoke the Past Speechconstructions in Table 2 that have not been usedby either narration or snapshot mode.
The contentof the quoted speech then operates totally indepen-dently of the speech action, since both R?
and S?are detached: Mary said/says/was saying, ?I amgoing to buy eggs because Julia is hungry.
?The focus of the sentence can be subsequentlyreassigned to deeper nested timelines as necessary(attaching E?
to R?
?, and so on).
Although theabove example uses subordinate clauses, we canuse this nesting technique to construct compos-ite tenses such as those enumerated by Halliday(1976).
To this end, we conjugate the Modal In-finitive construction in Table 2 for each alternatetimeline.
For instance, Halliday?s complex form?present in past in future in past in future?
(as inwill have been going to have been taking) can begenerated with four timelines in a chain that in-voke, in order and with Past Speech, the After, Be-fore, After andDuring perspectives.
There are fourRs, all but the main one attached to a previous E.4.2 Subjunctives and ConditionalsWe finally consider tense and aspect in the case ofsubjunctive and conditional statements (if-thens),which can appear in alternate timelines.
The re-lationship between an if clause and a then clauseis not the same as the relationship between twoclauses joined by because or when.
The thenclause?
or set of clauses?
is predicated on the truthof the if clause.
As linguists have noted (Horn-stein, 1990, p.74), the if clause serves as an adver-bial modifier, which has the effect of moving for-ward the reference point to the last of the if eventintervals (provided that the if refers to a hypotheti-cal future).
Consider the sentence: If John were tofly to Tokyo, he would have booked a hotel.
A cor-rect model would place E?book before E?fly on analternate timeline, with E?fly as the if.
Since wereto fly is a hypothetical future, R?
< E?fly.
Dur-ing regeneration, we set R?
to E?fly after renderingIf John were to fly to Tokyo, because we begin toassume that this event transpired.
If R?
is left un-changed, it may be erroneously left before E?book:Then he would be going to book a hotel.Our encoding interface allows users to mark oneor more events in an alternate timeline as if events.If at least one event is marked, all if events are ren-dered in the subjunctive mood, and the remainderare rendered in the conditional.
For the if clausesthat follow R?, S?
and R?
itself are reassigned tothe interval for each clause in turn.
R?
and S?
thenremain at the latest if interval (if it is after the origi-nal R?)
for purposes of rendering the then clauses.In our surface realizer, auxiliary words were andwould are combined with theModal Infinitive con-structions in Table 2 for events during or followingthe original attachment point.As an example, consider an alternate timelinewith two statives whose start and end points are thesame: Julia is hungry and Julia is unhappy.
Theformer is marked if.
Semantically, we are sayingthat hungry(Julia)?unhappy(Julia).If R?
were within these intervals, the renderingwould be: If Julia is hungry, then she is unhappy(Contains/Present Speech for both clauses).
IfR?
were prior to these intervals, the renderingwould be: If Julia were to be hungry, thenshe would be unhappy.
This reassigns R?
toEhungry, using were as a futurative and wouldto indicate a conditional.
Because R?
and S?
areset to Ehungry, the perspective on both clausesremains Contains/Present Speech.
Finally, if bothintervals are before R?, describing Julia?s previousemotional states, we avoid shifting R?
and S?backward: If Julia had been hungry, then she hadbeen unhappy (After perspective, Future Speechfor both statives).The algorithm is the same for event intervals.Take (1) and a prior event where Mary runs out ofeggs:runOut(Mary, eggs, 0, 1) (3)Suppose they are in an alternate timeline withattachment point 0?
and (1) marked if.
We be-gin by realizing Mary?s walk as an if clause: IfMary were to walk to the store.
We reassign R?to Ewalk, (2,6), which diverts the perception of(3) from Begins to After: She would have run outof eggs.
Conversely, suppose the conditional re-lationship were reversed, with (3) as the only ifaction.
If the attachment point is 3?, we realize (3)first in the After perspective, as R?
does not shiftbackward: If Mary had run out of eggs.
The re-mainder is rendered from the During perspective:She would be walking to the store.
Note that incasual conversation, we might expect a speaker atR = 3 to use the past simple: If Mary ran outof eggs, she would be walking to the store.
In thiscase, the speaker is attaching the alternate timelineat a reference interval that subsumes (3), invokingthe Contains perspective by casting a net aroundthe past.
We ask our annotators to select the bestattachment point manually; automatically makingthis choice is beyond the scope of this paper.5 DiscussionAs we mentioned earlier, we are describing twoseparate methods with a modular relationship toone another.
The first is an abstract mapping froma conceptual representation of time in a narrative,including interval and modal logic, to a set of 11perspectives, including the 7 listed in Table 2 andthe 4 introduced in Section 3.4.
These 11 arecrossed with three scenarios for speech time togive a total of 33 tense/aspect permutations.
Wealso use an infinitive form for each perspective.One may take these results and map them fromother time representations with similar specifica-tions.The second result is a set of syntactic construc-tions for realizing these permutations in our storyencoding interface.
Our focus here, as we havenoted, is not fluency, but a surface-level render-ing that reflects the relationships (and, at times,the ambiguities) present in the conceptual encod-ing.
We consider variations in modality, such asan indicative reading as opposed to a conditionalor subjunctive reading, to be at the level of the re-alizer and not another class of tenses.We have run a collection project with our en-coding interface and can report success in thetool?s usability (Elson and McKeown, 2009).
Twoannotators each encoded 20 fables into the for-mal representation, with their only exposure to thesemantic encodings being through the referencetext generator (as in Figure 1).
Both annotatorsbecame comfortable with the tool after a periodof training; in surveys that they completed aftereach task, they gave Likert-scale usability scoresof 4.25 and 4.30 (averaged over 20 tasks, with5 meaning ?easiest to use?).
These scores arenot specific to the generation component, but theysuggest that annotators could derive satisfactorytenses from their semantic structures.
The mostfrequently cited deficiency in the model in termsof time was the inability to assign reference timesto states and intervals (such as the next morning).6 Conclusion and Future WorkIt has always been the goal in surface realizationto generate sentences from a purely semantic rep-resentation.
Our approach to the generation oftense and aspect from temporal intervals takes uscloser to that goal.
We have applied prior work inlinguistics and interval theory and tested our ap-proach in an interactive narrative encoding tool.Our method handles reference intervals and eventintervals, bounded and unbounded, and extendsinto subintervals, modal events, conditionals, anddirect and indirect speech where the temporal fo-cus shifts.In the future, we will investigate extensionsto the current model, including temporal adver-bials (which explain the relationship between twoevents), reference times, habitual events, achieve-ments, and discourse-level issues such as prevent-ing ambiguity as to whether adjacent sentences oc-cur sequentially (Nerbonne, 1986; Vlach, 1993).7 AcknowledgmentsThis material is based on research supported inpart by the U.S. National Science Foundation(NSF) under IIS-0935360.
Any opinions, findingsand conclusions or recommendations expressed inthis material are those of the authors and do notnecessarily reflect the views of the NSF.ReferencesJames F. Allen.
1983.
Maintaining knowledge abouttemporal intervals.
Communications of the ACM,26(11):832?843.James F. Allen.
1984.
Towards a general theory ofaction and time.
Artificial Intelligence, 23(2):123?154.Charles Callaway and James Lester.
2002.
Nar-rative prose generation.
Artificial Intelligence,139(2):213?252.John Chen, Srinivas Bangalore, Owen Rambow, andMarilyn Walker.
2002.
Towards automatic gen-eration of natural language generation systems.
InProceedings of the 19th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2002), Taipei,Taiwan.Bernard Comrie.
1985.
Tense.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Richard Crouch and Stephen Pulman.
1993.
Time andmodality in a natural language interface to a plan-ning system.
Artificial Intelligence, pages 265?304.Bonnie J. Dorr and Terry Gaasterland.
1995.
Select-ing tense, aspect, and connecting words in languagegeneration.
In Proceedings of the Fourteenth Inter-national Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence(IJCAI-95), Montreal, Canada.David R. Dowty.
1979.
Word Meaning and MontagueGrammar.
D. Reidel, Dordrecht.Michael Elhadad and Jacques Robin.
1996.
Anoverview of surge: a reusable comprehensive syn-tactic realization component.
In INLG ?96 Demon-strations and Posters, pages 1?4, Brighton, UK.Eighth International Natural Language GenerationWorkshop.David K. Elson and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2009.
Atool for deep semantic encoding of narrative texts.In Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 SoftwareDemonstrations, pages 9?12, Suntec, Singapore.David K. Elson and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2010.Building a bank of semantically encoded narratives.In Proceedings of the Seventh International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2010), Malta.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Michel Gagnon and Guy Lapalme.
1996.
From con-ceptual time to linguistic time.
Computational Lin-guistics, 22(1):91?127.Brigitte Grote.
1998.
Representing temporal discoursemarkers for generation purposes.
In Proceedingsof the Discourse Relations and Discourse MarkersWorkshop, pages 22?28, Montreal, Canada.M.A.K.
Halliday.
1976.
The english verbal group.
InG.
R. Kress, editor, Halliday: System and Functionin Language.
Oxford University Press, London.Erhard W. Hinrichs.
1987.
A compositional semanticsof temporal expressions in english.
In Proceedingsof the 25th Annual Conference of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL-87), Stanford, CA.Norbert Hornstein.
1990.
As Time Goes By: Tense andUniversal Grammar.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Paul Kingsbury and Martha Palmer.
2002.
From tree-bank to propbank.
In Proceedings of the Third In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC-02), Canary Islands, Spain.Mirella Lapata and Alex Lascarides.
2006.
Learningsentence-internal temporal relations.
Journal of Ar-tificial Intelligence Research, 27:85?117.Benoit Lavoie and Owen Rambow.
1997.
A fast andportable realizer for text generation systems.
In Pro-ceedings of the Fifth Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing, Washington, DC.Gerard Ligozat and Michael Zock.
1992.
How to vi-sualize time, tense and aspect?
In Proceedings ofthe 14th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING ?92), pages 475?482, Nantes,France.Inderjeet Mani and James Pustejovsky.
2004.
Tem-poral discourse models for narrative structure.
InProceedings of the ACL Workshop on Discourse An-notation, Barcelona, Spain.Inderjeet Mani, Marc Verhagen, Ben Wellner,Chong Min Lee, and James Pustejovsky.
2006.
Ma-chine learning of temporal relations.
In Proceedingsof COLING/ACL 2006, pages 753?760, Sydney,Australia.Inderjeet Mani.
2004.
Recent developments in tempo-ral information extraction.
In Proceedings of the In-ternational Conference on Recent Advances in Nat-ural Language Processing (RANLP ?03), pages 45?60, Borovets, Bulgaria.Christian M. I. M. Matthiessen and John A. Bateman.1991.
Text generation and systemic-functional lin-guistics: experiences from English and Japanese.Frances Pinter Publishers and St. Martin?s Press,London and New York.Marc Moens and Mark Steedman.
1988.
Temporal on-tology and temporal reference.
Computational Lin-guistics, 14(2):15?28.John Nerbonne.
1986.
Reference time and time in nar-ration.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9(1):83?95.Toshiyuki Ogihara.
1995.
Double-access sentencesand reference to states.
Natural Language Seman-tics, 3:177?210.Rebecca Passonneau.
1988.
A computational modelof the semantics of tense and aspect.
ComputationalLinguistics, 14(2):44?60.Hans Reichenbach.
1947.
Elements of Symbolic Logic.MacMillan, London.Fei Song and Robin Cohen.
1988.
The interpretationof temporal relations in narrative.
In Proceedings ofthe Seventh National Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence (AAAI-88), St. Paul, Minnesota.Mark Steedman.
1995.
Dynamic semantics for tenseand aspect.
In The 1995 International Joint Confer-ence on AI (IJCAI-95), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.Frank Vlach.
1993.
Temporal adverbials, tenses andthe perfect.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 16(3):231?283.Bonnie Lynn Webber.
1987.
The interpretation oftense in discourse.
In Proceedings of the 25th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL-87), pages 147?154, Stanford, CA.Guowen Yang and John Bateman.
2009.
The chineseaspect generation based on aspect selection func-tions.
In Proceedings of the 47th Annual Meetingof the ACL and the 4th IJCNLP of the AFNLP (ACL-IJCNLP 2009), Singapore.
