Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 100?108,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComplex Predicates annotation in a corpus of PortugueseIris Hendrickx, Ama?lia Mendes, S?
?lvia Pereira, Anabela Gonc?alves and Ine?s DuarteCentro de Lingu?
?stica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal{iris, amalia.mendes}@clul.ul.ptAbstractWe present an annotation scheme for theannotation of complex predicates, under-stood as constructions with more than onelexical unit, each contributing part of theinformation normally associated with asingle predicate.
We discuss our anno-tation guidelines of four types of com-plex predicates, and the treatment of sev-eral difficult cases, related to ambiguity,overlap and coordination.
We then discussthe process of marking up the PortugueseCINTIL corpus of 1M tokens (written andspoken) with a new layer of informationregarding complex predicates.
We alsopresent the outcomes of the annotationwork and statistics on the types of CPs thatwe found in the corpus.1 IntroductionComplex predicates are predicates composed ofmore than one element but functionally equiva-lent to a single predicate.
Examples of complexpredicates (CPs) are constructions of verb+noun,like have a rest, take a walk, and constructionsverb+verb, like the constructions with a causativeverb in Portuguese, like mandar ler o livro aalgue?m ?make read the book to someone?.
Theseconstructions raise interesting questions regard-ing the aspectual, semantic and syntactic proper-ties which underlie the relationship between theelements of the CP.
There are different theoret-ical perspectives on the compositional nature ofCPs.
For example, in the case of constructions ofthe type verb+noun, the verb is either considereda light verb (Jespersen, 1949) or a support verb(Gross, 1981), in the sense that it has lost part orall of its meaning and has no predicative value inthe construction, or as an auxiliary verb with as-pectual properties (Abeille?
et al, 1998).Our hypothesis is that both elements of the CPseem to contribute to the properties of complexpredicates, in such a way that the argument struc-ture and the attribution of thematic roles are deter-mined by both constituents through the combina-tion of their thematic structures (Grimshaw, 1988).One has to address several important questions: isthere a systematic relationship between the syn-tactic and semantic selection properties of the twoelements?
How do the argument structure of thelight verb and the derived noun combine and con-tribute to define the complex predicate?
To studythese questions we annotated the Portuguese CIN-TIL corpus (Barreto et al, 2006) with a new layeron CPs.
By taking into consideration differenttypes of CPs and by using corpus data for our anal-ysis of their properties, the objective is to presenta unified approach to CP formation, along whichthe CP constructions available in Portuguese maybe accounted for, namely in what concerns theirlexico-syntactic properties and their interpretation.Here we focus on the corpus annotation of com-plex predicates.
This paper is structured as fol-lows.
In section 2 we discuss related work on theannotation of CPs in other languages.
In section 3we present a typology of complex predicates.
Insection 4 we detail our the annotation schema andalso focus on several specific cases of CPs and theannotation labels for these cases.
In section 5 wegive more information about the CINTIL corpusand in 6 we show the outcomes of the annotationsand present statistics on the types of CPs that wefound in the corpus.
We conclude in section 7.2 Related WorkFor other languages, people have proposed dif-ferent representations for CPs and for some lan-guages there are corpora available enhanced withCP labeling.
The Prague TreeBank for Czech,which is based on a dependency grammar, labelsCPs explicitly.
A complex predicate is represented100by two nodes: the verb node is assigned a func-tor according to the function of the entire complexpredicate in the sentence structure; the nominalnode is assigned the CPHR functor, which signalsthat it is a part of a multi-word predicate, and isrepresented as an immediate daughter of the nodefor the verbal component (Mikulova?
et al, 2006;Cinkova?
and Kola?r?ova?, 2005).For German there is an example corpus anno-tated with verb phrases and light verbs (Fellbaumet al, 2006).
However, only idiomatic expressionsare labeled in this German corpus while we focuson non-idiomatic CPs.
Calzolari et al (2002) treatsupport verb constructions (verb+noun), and focustheir attention, just like we did in our approach,on constructions where the subject of the verb is aparticipant in the event denoted by the noun.
Theirobjective is however not corpus annotation, but thecreation of a computational lexicon of MWEs withboth syntactic and semantic information.Also the field of semantic or thematic role label-ing investigates constructions of verb+noun, but itfocuses on predicate-argument structures in gen-eral, while we focus on a specific type of re-lations.
FrameNet uses frame semantics theoryto represent such predicate-argument structureswhich also includes handling complex predicates(e.g.
(Johnson and Fillmore, 2000)).
For Ger-man, there exists a fully annotated corpus withsemantic frames (Erk et al, 2003).
The basis ofthe Framenet semantic annotation are conceptualframes expressing an event or object and the se-mantic arguments (frame elements) that are (oblig-atory or optional) parts of the frames.
They alsospecifically address support verbs and observe thatsupport verbs often occur with nouns expressingan event (Johansson and Nugues, 2006).
In aFramenet semantic annotation, support verbs arenot considered as parts of frames or as part of theframe elements, they are annotated with a specific?support verb?
label.
We, on the contrary, view CPas one semantic and syntactic unit.In Nombank, a distinction is made between id-ioms (which in principle are not marked) and lightverb plus noun combinations, which are to be an-notated, and criteria are given to make such dis-tinction (English (Meyers, 2007), Chinese (Xue,2006)).
In (1) we show a NomBank annotationexample of the sentence with a complex predicate.Usually, CPs of the type verb+verb are treatedas infinitive dependent clauses and are not anno-tated as CPs (cf.
the Penn Treebank (Marcus etal., 1993) and the Portuguese treebank Cordial-SIN (Carrilho and Magro, 2009)).
(1) ?The campaign takes advantage of theeye-catching photography.
?SUPPORT = takesREL = advantageARG0 = the campaignARG1 = of the eye-catching photography3 Typology of complex predicatesWe consider CPs as constructions sharing certainproperties defined in Butt (1995).
A complexpredicate has: a multi-headed and complex argu-ment structure; more than one lexical unit, eachcontributing part of the information normally as-sociated with a single predicate and a grammaticalfunctional structure equal to the one of a simplepredicate.
Several types of constructions are in ac-cordance to this definition of CPs: (i) two mainverbs, forming a restructuring construction, likequerer estudar ?to want to study?
(ii) two mainverbs in a causative construction, like fazer rir?to make laugh?
; (iii) a light verb followed by anoun: dar um passeio ?to take a walk?, ter medo?to have fear?
; (iv) a light verb followed by a sec-ondary predicate: either an adjective, like tornara histo?ria cred?
?vel ?make the story believable?, ora prepositional phrase, like fazer x em pedac?os ?tomake x into pieces?
; (v) two concatenated verbs(serial verb constructions), like O Pedro pegou edespediu-se (lit: ?Pedro took and said goodbye?
).This last construction is mostly restricted to theinformal spoken register.
Regarding constructions(i) and (ii) with two main verbs, it is generally as-sumed that these CPs include at least two verbswhich behave as a single constituent under localphenomena such as Clitic Climbing or Long Ob-ject Movement (Kayne, 1975; Gonc?alves, 2002;Gonc?alves, 2003).
Each one of the verbs preservesits own argument structure.In the case of constructions (iii) involving alight verb and a noun derived from a verb, one ofthe most frequently referred property is the possi-bility of being paraphrased by the main verb fromwhich the noun is derived (see example 2), al-though this is not a necessary condition.
(2) (a) dar um contributo /contribuir?to give a contribution?
/ ?to contribute?
(b) ter um desmaio / desmaiar?to have a blackout?
/ ?to faint?101Light verbs occurring in these constructionshave a rather similar semantics across differentlanguages and involve mostly verbs like have, takeand give in English (Bowern, 2006) and ter ?tohave?, dar ?to give?, fazer ?to make?
in Portuguese.Furthermore, both the light verb and the derivednoun contribute to predicate information and ar-gument structure and theta-role assignment appearto be determined simultaneously by the two con-stituents.
It is important to determine the exact na-ture of the semantic contribution of light verbs tothe whole predicate and the similarities and differ-ences between the light verb construction and itslexicalized verbal counterpart, if it exists.4 Annotation systemThe corpus annotation focused on four of the typesof CPs listed in the previous section, excludingtype (iv): constructions where a main verb is fol-lowed by a secondary predicate, due to time limi-tations.
Constructions with a light verb (type (iii))were consequently restricted to verb+noun.
Weonly annotated constructions in which the subjectof the CP controlled the event denotated by thenoun.
For example, constructions like Mary gavea talk where Mary is the one who is presenting,and not any other entity.
We excluded cases wherethe subject does not seem to obligatorily controlthe event (e.g.
dar um t?
?tulo ?to give a title?
).We further restricted our annotation to a partic-ular set of nouns:?
nouns derived from a verb, like dar um pas-seio ?to take a walk?
(lit: ?to give a walk?);?
nouns expressing an emotion, i.e., psych-nouns like ter medo ?to be afraid?
(lit: ?tohave fear?
);Nouns derived from a verb are very common.For example, half of the nouns in the EnglishNombank corpus that have semantic frame ele-ments are actually nominalizations from verbs asstated on the NomBank homepage1.The restrictions on the type of noun occurringin CPs lead to the exclusion of constructions withidiomatic meaning (like dar a ma?o ?to give ahand?
)2.The annotation guidelines follow the results ofour study of CPs under a generative grammar1http://nlp.cs.nyu.edu/ meyers/NomBank.html2These are currently under study in the scope of a projecton multi-word expressions in Portuguese.framework, and are consequently theory-oriented.We didn?t include for the moment semantic and as-pectual information in our annotation of CPs.
Wehave undertaken some work on the aspectual in-formation conveyed by both light verb and nounand on the aspectual restrictions that hold betweenthe two elements (Duarte et al 2009) and we planto latter partially integrate those findings in our an-notation system.We divided the annotation of the CPs in twomain groups: verb+verb constructions (type (i),(ii), (v) as described in section 3) and verb+nounconstructions (type (iii)).
The verb+verb con-structions are denoted with the tag [CV] and thenoun+verb constructions with [CN].
Furthermore,inside the verb+verb category, we make distinc-tions between restructuring constructions (taggedas [CVR]), causative constructions ([CVC]) andconstructions with coordinated verbs ([CVE]).
Ex-ample 3 gives an illustration of each of these sub-types.
For the verb+noun constructions we distin-guish contexts with bare nouns ([CNB]) and con-texts where a determiner precedes the noun (justtagged as [CN]) (cf.example 4).
(3) (a) porque nos [CVR]queriam convidarbecause [they] us wanted to invite?because they wanted to invite us?
(b) veio abalar estes alicerces espirituais[CVC]fazendo traduzir ao rapaz?Pucelle?
de Voltairehe shacked these spiritual foundationsby making translate to the boy?Pucelle?
by Voltaire?he shacked these spiritual foundationsby making the boy translate ?Pucelle?by Voltaire?
(c) e [CVE]vai um e conta ao outroand goes one and tells to the other?and he tells the other?
(4) (a) Facto que leva a CGD a considerar quena?o [CNB]tem obrigac?o?es em relac?a?oaos trabalhadores.
?The fact that leads the CGD to believethat it doesn?t have obligations towardsthe workers.?
(b) o erro de [CN]fazer uma interpretac?a?oliteral?the error of making a literalinterpretation?102There is also information on the typical positionof the element inside the CP (position 1, 2, etc.
),as well as on its contextual position in the corpus(B=Beginning, I=Intermediate, E=End).
With typ-ical position we refer to the ordering of elementsof the CP in its canonical form, corresponding tothe descriptions and examples given in section 3.The typical and contextual position can differ as isillustrated in example 5.
(5) depois de um[CN2 B] aviso[CN3 I]dado[CN1 E]?after a warning was given?The elements forming the CP may not be con-tiguous and in that case only the elements pertain-ing to the CP are annotated.
In example 6 the ad-verb logo ?immediately?
is not a part of the CPand consequently is not annotated.
Also, only themain verb is annotated and not the auxiliary verbswhich might occur (cf.
the auxiliary tinha ?had?
isnot tagged in 7).
(6) dar[CN1 B] logo uma[CN2 I]ajuda[CN3 E]give immediately an help?give help immediately?
(7) tinha dado[CN1 B] uma[CN2 I]ajuda[CN3 E]had given an help?had given help?The categories and tags which compose our an-notation system provide an overview of differentcontexts of CP constructions encountered in au-thentic data, which is a major goal of this annota-tion project.The process of annotation was based on con-cordances extraction using lists of verbs enteringrestructuring constructions (type (i)), given in 8and lists of causative verbs (type (ii)), shown in9.
Considering the large candidate list of possibleCPs with light verbs, the annotation first focusedon constructions with verbs ter, dar and fazer fol-lowed by a noun.
For CPs with coordinated verbs(type (v)), a list of typical verbs entering the con-struction was elaborated, shown in 10, and appliedto a search pattern (two verbs separated by a con-junction and possibly by some other lexical ele-ment).
Concordances retrieved were then manu-ally evaluated.
(8) querer ?want?desejar ?desire?costumar ?use to?tentar ?try?pretender ?want?tencionar ?make plan to?conseguir ?succeed?
(9) mandar ?order?deixar ?let?fazer ?make?
(10) ir ?go?agarrar ?grab?pegar ?hold?Information on the categories, tags, restrictionsand special cases (discussed in section 4.1) weredescribed in the annotation guidelines.4.1 Special casesThe observation of corpus data pointed to a rangeof specific situations requiring new categories andtags.4.1.1 AmbiguitySome contexts in the corpus are clearly cases ofCPs and are straightforwardly annotated as CPs,like restructuring constructions with clitic climb-ing (cf.
3a) and causative constructions with twointernal arguments like in example 3b.
Also exam-ple 11 is a clear case where the subject of the lowerverb occurs as an indirect object (aos cidada?osem geral) and the that-clause which is the directobject of the lower verb (que a fotoco?pia corre-sponde a um acto de pirataria inaceita?vel) is re-analyzed as the direct object of the CP.
Other clearcases of CPs are pronominal passives where the di-rect object of the second verb occurs as subject ofthe higher verb (Long Object Movement), produc-ing subject-verb agreement (this construction wasnot encountered in the corpus, a possible examplewould be (12)).
(11) fazer perceber aos cidada?os em geral, que afotoco?pia corresponde a um acto de piratariainaceita?vel?make understand to all citizens that aphotocopy corresponds to an act ofunacceptable piratery?
(12) Querem-se estudar os problemas.
?want-3PL.PASS study the problems?103Other contexts are clearly not instances of CPsand as such are not annotated.
This is the caseof constructions with a restructuring verb withoutclitic climbing, as in example 13.
(13) querem perpetua?
-lo?
[they] want to perpetuate it?But many CPs can have an ambiguous interpreta-tion between a complex predicate construction anda construction with a main verb and an embeddedinfinitive clause, and we found it relevant to markthose constructions with the information of ambi-guity (tag [ VINF]).
For example, contexts similarto (12) but with a singular NP, as in example 14a,can receive two possible structural interpretations:the NP justic?a ?justice?
can be interpreted as thesubject of the higher verb (a long object movementconstruction and consequently a CP construction)or as the direct object of the second verb (an im-personal construction).
In (14b) we show how weannotated this example using a label expressingthe ambiguity.
(14) (a) Pretende-se cometer justic?a.Aims-IMP to commit justice [IMP =Impersonal]?One wants to commit justice?
(b) Pretende[CVR VINF1 B]-secometer[CVR VINF2 E] (...) justic?a4.1.2 Overlapping CPsBeside these examples, the corpus includes con-structions in which one of the elements of a CP(restructuring type) is also part of another CP(causative type), so that two CPs are in fact super-posed.
In these cases, the element which is part ofboth CPs receives a double tag (see the verb deixarin example 15).
(15) na?o o queriam[CVR1 B]deixar[CVR2 E][CVC VINF1 B]fugir[CVC VINF2 E]not him want to let escape?they didn?t want to let him escape?4.2 Coordination inside CPsThere are also occurrences of coordination insidethe CP, possible when two CPs share the samehigher verb (light verb, restructuring or causativeverb).
The coordinated elements of the CP aretagged with extra information on their first orsecond position in the coordinated structure (tags[CVR2 1] and [CVR2 2], cf.
16).
The coordi-nation is usually marked with a conjunction, likein example 16 with a restructuring construction,equivalent in fact to two CPs querer ouvir andquerer registar.
However, in the spoken subpartof the corpus there may be no overt connector andjust a slight pause as in example 17 (the pause ismarked by ?/?).
(16) para quem o quis[CVR1 B]ouvir[CVR2 1 E] e eventualmenteregistar[CVR2 2 E]to whom him wanted to listen and eventuallyregister?to whom wanted to listen and eventuallyregister him?
(17) no?s temos[CN1 B] uma[CN2 1 I]tristeza[CN3 1 E] / uma[CN2 2 I]frustrac?a?o[CN3 2 E] muito grande?we have a sadness / a frustration very deep?5 Corpus constitutionThe CINTIL corpus3 contains 1 million tokens andwas compiled using different existing resourcesdeveloped at the Centre of Linguistics of the Uni-versity of Lisbon (CLUL): the written corpus Pa-role (Bacelar do Nascimento et al, 1998), thespoken corpus C-ORAL-ROM (Bacelar do Nasci-mento et al, 2005) and new written texts from theReference Corpus of Contemporary Portuguese-CRPC (Bacelar do Nascimento, 2000), a largemonitor corpus with over 300M words.
One thirdof the corpus is composed of transcribed spokenmaterials (both formal and informal) and the re-maining two thirds are composed of written mate-rials.This corpus has been previously annotated andmanually revised (Barreto et al, 2006), in a jointproject of NLX-FCUL4 and CLUL.
The CINTILcorpus has important features, compared to otherresources for Portuguese, namely the depth of itslinguistic information, its size, range of domainsand sources, and level of accuracy.
The annotationcomprises information on part-of-speech (POS),lemma and inflection, multi-word expressions per-taining to the class of adverbs and to the closedPOS classes, and multi-word proper names (for3The CINTIL corpus is available for online queries (//cin-til.ul.pt) through the use of a concordancer adapted to Por-tuguese.4http://nlx.di.fc.ul.pt104named entity recognition), together with specificcategories for spoken texts (like Emphasis (/EMP),Extra-linguistic (/EL), Fragment (/FRG)).
Belowis an excerpt of the POS annotation and lemmati-zation where tags follow the order [lemma/ POScategory # inflected features [named entity] ].
(18) pretende/PRETENDER/vpi#3s[O]reconverter/RECONVERTER/inf-nifl[O]o/O/da#ms[O]centro/CENTRO/cn#ms[B-LOC]de/de/prep[I-LOC]Matosinhos/MATOSINHOS/pnm[I-LOC]In the next section we present the results of theaddition of a new layer of information on complexpredicates to this corpus.6 Annotation resultsThe annotation of the whole corpus was done man-ually by one MA student who was well familiarwith the task.
A concordancer was used to iden-tify possible complex predicate structures.
Diffi-cult cases were picked out and discussed with twoother persons to reach an agreement on the anno-tation.
Several of such hard cases were then addedto the annotation guidelines.
After manual annota-tion, the annotations were checked with a script tocheck the consistency of the labels and to correctsome minor errors.To validate the annotations we performed asmall experiment.
A second person annotateda small sample of sentences independently ofthe first annotator.
Next we compute the inter-annotator agreement on the two different annota-tions.
This gives us some indication of the diffi-culty of the task and the consistency of the label-ing of the first annotator.
We computed the kappastatistics (Cohen, 1960) on the complex predicateslabeled by the two annotators in 50 sentences.
Weacknowledge that this is just a very small sample,yet this gave us a kappa value of .81 which indi-cates a high overlap between both annotations.In Table 1 we list the frequencies of the com-plex predicates found in the CINTIL corpus.
Intotal we found 1981 CPs, the majority (1292 CPs)are combinations of a verb with a noun.
For theverb predicates the table clearly shows that thesecases are mostly ambiguous.
We also looked at theoccurrences of the more complex events describedin section 4.1 presented in table 2.
We encoun-tered 28 cases of coordinated complex predicateslabel written spoken totalCV total 470 219 689CVR 34 47 81CVC 13 3 16CVE 0 1 1CVR VINF 300 143 443CVC VINF 123 25 148CN total 706 586 1292CNB 353 213 566CN 353 373 726total 1176 805 1981Table 1: Number of annotated complex predicatesin the spoken and written parts of the CINTIL cor-pus.label written spoken totalCV ambiguity 423 168 591coordination 15 13 28overlap 6 10 16Table 2: Zooming in on the frequencies of the spe-cial cases (sec.
4.1) in the CINTIL corpus.and 14 times a verb was part of two different CPsat the same time.
The CPs with verb+verb con-structions show a very high number of ambiguousoccurrences.
It is clear that in most cases the con-text of such a construction does not provide suffi-cient evidence to disambiguate it.
We only founda handful of cases in which the context did resolvethe ambiguity.We also looked into the ordering of the CPsin the corpus.
To what extent do the CPs occurin their canonical form?
Table 3 shows the re-sults.
We found a change in ordering only for theverb+noun CPs.
For the CPs with a bare noun wefound only 9 cases of non-canonical order.
ForCPs with an NP with a determiner-noun combina-tion we did see more variation in order, of the totalnumber of 726 occurrences, 16.9% had a differentword order.We also wanted to see if all the verbs used toidentify CP constructions (verbs listed in 8 9, 10plus the 3 light verbs) were equally present inthe CINTIL corpus or if there was any significantlexical difference.
We present the results of thefrequencies of the verbs of each CP type in Ta-bles 4, 5, 7 and 6.
When comparing the list in105label written spoken total % of occCN 86 37 123 16.9CNB 7 2 9 1.6Table 3: Number of complex predicates that donot follow their canonical form.
The last columnpresents the percentage of the total number of CNor CNB occurrences that are not in their canonicalform.8 with the verbs in Table 4, we can see that theverbs desejar and tencionar were included for thequery of restructuring predicates but do not oc-cur in the corpus in CP constructions.
Out ofthe five verbs, querer ?want?
is clearly the mostfrequent in both written and spoken sub-parts ofthe corpus.
Apart from conseguir ?succeed?, therest of the verbs have very low frequencies, andcostumar ?use to?
is only present in the spokencorpus, while the opposite is true for pretender?want?, a verb associated to a more formal regis-ter.
In causative constructions with CPs (Table 5), the verb fazer ?make?
is clearly prominent in thewritten corpus, although it does not occur in thespoken one.
The only causative verb in CP con-structions in the spoken corpus is mandar ?order?.In causative constructions, contrary to restructur-ing ones, the genre seems to influence the lexicalchoice of the higher verb of the complex predicate.CVR written spokenconseguir 6 7costumar 0 3pretender 2 0querer 25 34tentar 1 3total 34 47Table 4: frequencies of the main verb in CVRcomplex predicates.The verb+noun constructions are divided in twodifferent tables, according to our categorization inbare nouns (Table 6) and nouns preceded by a de-terminer (Table 7).
The same three verbs enter theconstructions although their frequencies are differ-ent in the two different structures: the verb fazeris clearly dominant when followed by a noun pre-ceded by a determiner, while the verb ter is theCVC written spokendeixar 1 0fazer 11 0mandar 1 3total 13 3Table 5: frequencies of the main verb in CVCcomplex predicates.more frequent light verb with bare nouns.CNB written spokendar 69 27fazer 87 52ter 197 134total 353 213Table 6: frequencies of the main verb in CNBcomplex predicatesCN written spokendar 79 34fazer 193 231ter 81 108total 353 373Table 7: frequencies of the main verb in CN com-plex predicates.7 Final remarksWe presented the annotation process of complexpredicates in the CINTIL corpus.
We first ex-plained our theoretical framework and gave abroad typology of CPs.
Next we detailed the anno-tation schema that we used and zoomed in on somedifficult cases.
We presented the outcomes of theannotation work.
We gave a first broad statisticalanalysis of the annotations, and next we zoomedin on some insights in characteristics of CPs inPortuguese that this new annotation layer has of-fered.
This new resource provides diversified au-thentic data that will enable a general overview ofCP constructions and can shed new light on theSyntax-Semantics interface.
It is also an importantpart for forthcoming tasks of syntactic and seman-tic corpus annotation.In the future we plan to further analyze the re-sults of the verb+verb types of CPs.
The large106number of ambiguous cases and the few contextswhich give us definite clues for categorizing thesequence as a CP challenges our concept of com-plex predicates.
The causative and restructuringconstructions require more attention and furtherstudy.
As to the verb+noun constructions, we wantto examine the contexts with and without deter-miner to see if the same CP can occur in bothstructures.
We also want to look further into thehigh frequency of specific light verbs with barenouns and the possible relationship with the se-mantics of the light verbs.
In this study we re-stricted the annotation to a particular group of lightverbs.
In a next step we would like to look at abroader list to try to establish the necessary prop-erties to categorize a verb as a light verb.
Weplan to address, for example, certain contexts ofpsych-nouns like sentir medo ?feel fear?, experi-enciar uma profunda emoc?a?o ?experience a deepemotion?, where the predicative nature of the verbis unclear.
We also plan to enlarge our descriptionand annotation of CPs to include idiomatic expres-sions with light verbs.ReferencesA.
Abeille?, D. Godard, and I.
Sag, 1998.
ComplexPredicates in Nonderivational Syntax, volume 30 ofSyntax and Semantics, chapter Two Kinds of Com-position in French Complex predicates.
San DiegoAcademic Press, San Diego.M.
F. P. Bacelar do Nascimento, P. Marrafa, L.A.S.Pereira, R. Ribeiro, R. Veloso, and L. Wittmann.1998.
Le-parole - do corpus a` modelizac?a?o dainformac?a?o lexical num sistema-multifunc?a?o.
In Ac-tas do XIII Encontro da Associac?a?o Portuguesa deLingu?
?stica, APL, pages 115?134, Lisboa.M.
F. Bacelar do Nascimento, J. BettencourtGonc?alves, R. Veloso, S. Antunes, F. Barreto,and R. Amaro, 2005.
C-ORAL-ROM: IntegratedReference Corpora for Spoken Romance Languages,chapter The Portuguese Corpus, pages 163?207.Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Pub-lishing Company, Studies in Corpus Linguistics.Editors: E. Cresti and M. Monegnia.M.
F. Bacelar do Nascimento, 2000.
Corpus,Me?thodologie et Applications Linguistiques, chapterCorpus de Re?fe?rence du Portugais Contemporain,pages 25?30.
H. Champion et Presses Universitairesde Perpignan, Paris.
Editor: M. Bilger.F.
Barreto, A. Branco, E. Ferreira, A. Mendes, M. F. P.Bacelar do Nascimento, F. Nunes, and J. Silva.2006.
Open resources and tools for the shallow pro-cessing of portuguese.
In Proceedings of the 5th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC2006), Genoa, Italy.C.
Bowern.
2006.
Inter theorical approaches to com-plex verb constructions: position paper.
In TheEleventh Biennal Rice University Linguistics Sym-posium.E.
Carrilho and C. Magro, 2009.
Syntactic Anno-tation System Manual of corpus CORDIAL-SIN.http://www.clul.ul.pt/sectores/variacao/cordialsin/Syntactic%20annotation%20manual.html.S.
Cinkova?
and V. Kola?r?ova?.
2005.
Nouns as compo-nents of support verb constructions in the prague de-pendency treebank.
In Insight into Slovak and CzechCorpus Linguistics.
Veda Bratislava.J.
Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreement for nom-inal scales.
Education and Psychological Measure-men, 20:37?46.K.
Erk, A. Kowalski, S.
Pado?, and M. Pinkal.
2003.Towards a resource for lexical semantics: A largegerman corpus with extensive semantic annotation.In Proceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages 537?544, Sapporo, Japan, July.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.C.
Fellbaum, A. Geyken, A. Herold, F. Koerner, andG.
Neumann.
2006.
Corpus-based studies of ger-man idioms and light verbs.
International Journalof Lexicography, 19(4):349?360.A.
Gonc?alves.
2002.
The causee in the faire-inf con-struction of portuguese.
Journal of Portuguese Lin-guistics.A.
Gonc?alves.
2003.
Defectividade funcional e pred-icados complexos em estruturas de controlo do por-tugue?s.
In I. Castro and I. Duarte, editors, Mis-celnea de estudos em homenagem a Maria HelenaMira Mateus, volume I. Imprensa Nacional-Casa daMoeda.J.
Grimshaw.
1988.
Light verbs and marking.
Lin-guistic Inquiry, 19(2):205?232.M.
Gross.
1981.
Les bases empiriques de la notion depre?dicat se?mantique.
Langages, 63:7?52.O.
Jespersen.
1949.
A Modern English Grammar onHistorical Principles.
Londres: George Allen &Unwin; Copenhaga: Ejnar Munksgaard.R.
Johansson and P. Nugues.
2006.
Automatic anno-tation for all semantic layers in FrameNet.
In Pro-ceedings of EACL-2006, Trento, Italy, April 15-16.C.
R. Johnson and C. J. Fillmore.
2000.
The framenettagset for frame-semantic and syntactic coding ofpredicate-argument structure.
In Proceedings of the1st Meeting of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (ANLP-NAACL 2000), pages 56?62, Seattle WA.107R.
Kayne.
1975.
French Syntax: the TransformationalCycle.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.M.
Marcus, S. Santorini, and M. Marcinkiewicz.
1993.Building a Large Annotated Corpus of English:the Penn Treebank.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):313?330.M.Butt.
1995.
The Structure of Complex Predicates inUrdu.
Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.A.
Meyers.
2007.
Annotation guidelines fornombank ?
noun argument structure for prop-bank.
Technical report, New York University.http://nlp.cs.nyu.edu/meyers/nombank/nombank-specs-2007.pdf.M.
Mikulova?, A.
Be?mova?, J.
Hajic?, E.
Hajickova?, andJ.
Havelka et al 2006.
Annotation on the tec-togrammatical level in the prague dependency tree-bank annotation manual.
technical report.
TechnicalReport UFAL CKL Technical Report TR-2006-35,U?FAL MFF UK, Prague, Czech Rep.N.
Xue.
2006.
Annotating the predicate-argumentstructure of chinese nominalizations.
In Proceed-ings of the LREC 2006, pages 1382?1387, Genoa,Italy.108
