Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of the Lexicon (CogALex 2010), pages 28?32,Beijing, August 2010The Color of Emotions in TextsCarlo Strapparava and Gozde OzbalFBK-irststrappa@fbk.eu, gozbalde@gmail.comAbstractColor affects every aspect of our lives.There has been a considerable interestin the psycholinguistic research area ad-dressing the impact of color on emotions.In the experiments conducted by thesestudies, subjects have usually been askedto indicate their emotional responses todifferent colors.
On the other side, sensingemotions in text by using NLP techniqueshas recently become a popular topic incomputational linguistics.
In this paper,we introduce a semantic similarity mecha-nism acquired from a large corpus of textsin order to check the similarity of col-ors and emotions.
Then we investigatethe correlation of our results with the out-comes of some psycholinguistic experi-ments.
The conclusions are quite inter-esting.
The correlation varies among dif-ferent colors and globally we achieve verygood results.1 IntroductionIn our daily speech, we frequently make use ofcolors in order to increase our expressiveness byinvoking different emotions.
For instance, we usu-ally stress the redness of someone?s face for theimplication of his/her anger or excitement, or weuse phrases including the color black to refer to adepressed mood.
On the other hand, the color pinkis mostly used with positive connotations such as?to see everything in pink light?, where the mean-ing is related to optimism and happiness.Actually, the parts of the nervous system whichare responsible for emotional arousal are affectedas soon as a color is perceived.
Thus, the termcolor emotion has lately been used to representthe emotions arousing in human beings when theypercept a color (Xin et al, 2004).The correlation of color and emotion has beenthe focus of a lot of psycholinguistic studies sofar.
In the experiments conducted by these studies,subjects have usually been asked to indicate theiremotional responses to different colors so thatsome general results stating which color arouseswhat kind of emotion could be obtained.Sensing emotion, or in other words, affectivesensing in text by using Natural Language Pro-cessing (NLP) techniques is recently a very pop-ular topic in computational linguistics.
There ex-ist several studies focusing on the automatic iden-tification of emotions in text with the help ofboth knowledge-based and corpus-based methods.Thus it is conceivable to explore whether state-of-the-art corpus analysis techniques can give sup-port to psycholinguistic experiments.Considering that psycholinguistic experimentsare very costly since a lot of resources are requiredfor both the setup and evaluation phases, employ-ing a corpus-based approach for affective sensingcould be much more efficient for all analysis to beheld in the future, if this technique was proven togive reasonable results.In this paper, we employ a semantic similaritymechanism automatically obtained in an unsuper-vised way from a large corpus of texts in orderto check the similarity of color and emotion viacomputational analysis methods.
We adopt thepsycholinguistic experiments as references, withwhich we compare our results to find out if thereis a correlation between the two approaches.28The paper is organized as follows.
In Section2, we introduce some related work focusing onthe association of color and emotion only froma psycholinguistic point of view, since this topichas not been addressed by computational analysistechniques so far.
In Section 3, we describe themethodology for implementing a similarity be-tween colors and emotions, in particular how torepresent an emotion in a latent semantic space.We present the evaluation of our approach andmake a comparison with the results of psycholin-guistic experiments in Section 4.
Lastly, we reportthe conclusions and possible future work in Sec-tion 5.2 BackgroundAs we mentioned previously, there has been a con-siderable interest in the psycholinguistic researcharea addressing the impact of color on emotions.
(Zentner, 2001) mainly addressed the questionof whether young children could show reliablecolor preferences.
This study also tried to make acomparison with the results obtained with adultsand older children.
Subjects?
color preferenceswere obtained by asking them to choose the onethat they prefer among an array of colored card-board rectangles.
As an alternative way to repre-sent musical information for providing feedbackon emotion expression in music, (Bresin, 2005)suggested to use a graphical non-verbal represen-tation of expressivity in music performance by ex-ploiting color as an index of emotion.
And for thepurpose of determining which colors were mostsuitable for an emotional expression, some ex-periments were conducted, where subjects ratedhow well several colors and their nuances corre-sponded to music performances expressing differ-ent emotions.
(Kaya, 2004) tried to investigateand discuss the associations between color andemotion by conducting experiments where collegestudents were asked to indicate their emotional re-sponses to principal, intermediate and achromaticcolors, and the reasons for their choices.There exist also some research investigatingwhether the color perception is related to the re-gion of the subject.
For instance, (Gao et al,2007) analyzed and compared the color emotionsof people from seven regions in a psychophysicalexperiment, with an attempt to clarify the influ-ences of culture and color perception attributes oncolor emotions.
This study suggested that it mightbe possible to compose a color emotion space byusing a restricted number of factors.
As for (So-riano and Valenzuela, 2009), this study tried tofind out why there was often a relationship be-tween color and emotion words in different lan-guages.
In order to achieve this, a new experi-mental methodology called the Implicit Associa-tion Test (IAT) was used to explore the implicitconnotative structure of the Peninsular Spanishcolor terms in terms of Osgood?s universal se-mantic dimensions explained in (Adams and Os-good, 1973).
The research conducted by (Xin etal., 2004) tried to compare the color emotional re-sponses that were obtained by conducting visualexperiments in different regions by using a set ofcolor samples.
A quantitative approach was usedin this study in an attempt to compare the coloremotions among these regions.
(Madden et al,2000) focused on the possible power of color forcreating and sustaining brand and corporate im-ages in international marketing.
This study triedto explore the favorite colors of consumers fromdifferent countries, the meanings they associatedwith colors, and their color preferences for a logo.The study that we will use for evaluating our re-sults is a work which focused on the topic ?emo-tional responses to color used in advertisement?
(Alt, 2008).
During the experiments, this studyconducted a survey where the subjects were re-quired to view an advertisement with a dominantcolor hue, and then select a specific emotional re-sponse and a positive/negative orientation relatedwith this color.
More than 150 subjects partici-pated in this study, roughly equally partitioned ingender.
There are two main reasons why we pre-ferred to use this study for our evaluation proce-dure.
Firstly, the presentation and organization ofthe results provide a good reference for our ownexperiments.
In addition, it focusses on adver-tisement, which is one of the applicative fields wewant to address in future work.3 MethodologySensing emotions from text is an appealing taskof natural language processing (Pang and Lee,292008; Strapparava and Mihalcea, 2007): the au-tomatic recognition of affective states is becom-ing a fundamental issue in several domains suchas human-computer interaction or sentiment anal-ysis for opinion mining.
Indeed, a large amountof textual material has become available form theWeb (e.g.
blogs, forums, social networks), rais-ing the attractiveness of empirical methods analy-sis on this field.For representing the emotions, we exploit themethodology described in (Strapparava and Mi-halcea, 2008).
The idea underlying the method isthe distinction between direct and indirect affec-tive words.For direct affective words (i.e.
words that di-rectly denote emotions), authors refer to theWORDNET AFFECT (Strapparava and Valitutti,2004) lexicon, a freely available extension of theWORDNET database which employs some basicemotion labels (e.g.
anger, disgust, fear, joy, sad-ness) to annotate WORDNET synsets.For indirect affective words, a crucial aspectis building a mechanism to represent an emotionstarting from affective lexical concepts and to in-troduce a semantic similarity among generic terms(and hence also words denoting colors) and theseemotion representations.Latent Semantic Analysis is used to acquire,in an unsupervised setting, a vector space fromthe British National Corpus1.
In LSA, term co-occurrences in a corpus are captured by means ofa dimensionality reduction operated by a singu-lar value decomposition on the term-by-documentmatrix representing the corpus.
LSA has theadvantage of allowing homogeneous representa-tion and comparison of words, word sets (e.g.synsets), text fragments or entire documents.
Forrepresenting word sets and texts by means of aLSA vector, it is possible to use a variation ofthe pseudo-document methodology described in(Berry, 1992).
This variation takes into accountalso a tf-idf weighting schema.
In practice, eachdocument can be represented in the LSA space bysumming up the normalized LSA vectors of all the1BNC is a very large (over 100 million words) cor-pus of modern English, both spoken and written (seehttp://www.hcu.ox.ac.uk/bnc/).
Other more spe-cific corpora could also be considered, to obtain a more do-main oriented similarity.terms contained in it.
Therefore a set of words(and even all the words labeled with a particularemotion) can be represented in the LSA space,performing the pseudo-document technique onthem.As stated in (Strapparava and Mihalcea, 2008),each emotion can be represented in various waysin the LSA space.
The particular one that we areemploying is the ?LSA Emotion Synset?
setting,which has proved to give the best results in termsof fine-grained emotion sensing.
In this setting,the synsets of direct emotion words, taken formWORDNET AFFECT, are considered.For our purposes, we compare the similaritiesamong the representations of colors and emotionsin the latent similarity space.4 ExperimentsFor the experiments in this paper, we built anLSA vector space on the full BNC corpus us-ing 400 dimensions.
To compare our approachwith the psycholinguistic experiments reported in(Alt, 2008), we represent the following emotions:anger, aversion/disgust, fear, happiness/joy, andsadness.
And we consider the colors Blue, Red,Green, Orange, Purple, Yellow.
Table 1 reportsthe rankings of emotions according to colors from(Alt, 2008).Color Ranking of EmotionsAnger Aversion/DisgustFear Joy SadnessBlue 5 2 4 1 3Red 1 4 2 3 5Green 5 2 3 1 4Orange 4 2 3 1 5Purple 5 2 4 1 3Yellow 5 2 4 1 3Table 1: Emotions ranked by colors from psy-cholinguistic experimentsIn Table 2 we report our results of ranking emo-tions with respect to colors using the similaritymechanism described in the previous section.
Toevaluate our results with respect to the psycholin-guistic reference, we use Spearman correlationcoefficient.
The resulting correlation between twoapproaches for each color is reported in Table 3.We can observe that the global correlation israther good (0.75).
In particular, it is very high30Color Ranking Emotions using Similarity with ColorAnger Aversion/DisgustFear Joy SadnessBlue 4 2 3 1 5Red 4 3 2 1 5Green 4 2 3 1 5Orange 4 2 3 1 5Purple 5 2 3 1 4Yellow 4 2 3 1 5Table 2: Emotions ranked by similarity with col-orsColor CorrelationBlue 0.7Red 0.3Green 0.9Orange 1.0Purple 0.9Yellow 0.7Total 0.75Table 3: Correlationfor the colors Orange, Green and Purple, whichimplies that the use of language for these colors isquite in accordance with psycholinguistic results.The results are good for Blue and Yellow as well,while the correlation is not so high for Red.
Thiscould suggest that Red is a quite ambiguous colorwith respect to emotions.5 ConclusionsThere are emotional and symbolic associationswith different colors.
This is also revealed in ourdaily use of language, as we frequently make ref-erences to colors for increasing our expressivenessby invoking different emotions.
While most ofthe research conducted so far with the aim of an-alyzing the relationship between color and emo-tion was based on psycholinguistic experiments,the goal of this study was exploring this associ-ation by employing a corpus-based approach foraffective sensing.In order to show that our approach was provid-ing reasonable results, we adopted one of the ex-isting psycholinguistic experiments as a reference.Following that adoption, we made a comparisonbetween the results of this research and our owntechnique.
Since we have observed that these tworesults were highly correlated as we expected, wewould like to explore further this direction.
Cer-tainly different cultures can play a role for variantemotional responses (Adams and Osgood, 1973).Thus, as a next step, we are planning to investi-gate how the perception of color by human be-ings varies in different languages by again con-ducting a computational analysis with NLP tech-niques.
Employing this approach could be veryuseful and efficient for the design of applicationsrelated to the fields of multimedia, automatic ad-vertisement production, marketing and education(e.g.
e-learning environments)In addition, based on our exploration about thecolor perception of emotions from a corpus-basedpoint of view, we suggest that ?visual?
informa-tion regarding objects and events could be ex-tracted from large amounts of text, using the samekind of techniques proposed in the present paper.This information can be easily exploited for cre-ation of dictionaries or used in dynamic visualiza-tion of text such as kinetic typography (Strappar-ava et al, 2007).
As a concrete example, our ap-proach can be extended to discover the associationof colors not only with emotions, but also with in-direct affective words in various languages.
Webelieve that the discovery of this kind of relation-ship would allow us to automatically build col-orful dictionaries, which could substantially helpusers with both interpretation and memorizationprocesses.ReferencesAdams, F. M. and C. E. Osgood.
1973.
A cross-cultural study of the affective meanings of colour.Journal of cross-cultural psychology, 4:135?156.Alt, M. 2008.
Emotional responses to color associatedwith an advertisement.
Master?s thesis, GraduateCollege of Bowling Green State University, Bowl-ing Green, Ohio.Berry, M. 1992.
Large-scale sparse singular valuecomputations.
International Journal of Supercom-puter Applications, 6(1):13?49.Bresin, R. 2005.
What is the color of that musicperformance?
In Proceedings of the InternationalComputer Music Conference (ICMA 2005), pages367?370.Gao, X.P., J.H.
Xin, T. Sato, A. Hansuebsai, M. Scalzo,K.
Kajiwara, S. Guan, J. Valldeperas, M. Lis Jose,31and M. Billger.
2007.
Analysis of cross-culturalcolor emotion.
Color research and application,32(223?229).Kaya, N. 2004.
Relationship between color and emo-tion: a study of college students.
College StudentJournal, pages 396?405.Madden, T. J., K. Hewett, and S. Roth Martin.
2000.Managing images in different cultures: A cross-national study of color meanings and preferences.Journal of International Marketing, 8(4):90?107.Ortony, A., G. L. Clore, and M. A. Foss.
1987.The psychological foundations of the affective lexi-con.
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology,53:751?766.Pang, B. and L. Lee.
2008.
Opinion mining and senti-ment analysis.
Foundations and Trends in Informa-tion Retrieval, 2(1-2):1?135.Soriano, C. and J. Valenzuela.
2009.
Emotion andcolour across languages: implicit associations inspanish colour terms.
Social Science Information,48:421?445, September.Strapparava, C. and R. Mihalcea.
2007.
SemEval-2007 task 14: Affective Text.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th International Workshop on Semantic Evalu-ations (SemEval 2007), pages 70?74, Prague, June.Strapparava, C. and R. Mihalcea.
2008.
Learning toidentify emotions in text.
In SAC ?08: Proceedingsof the 2008 ACM symposium on Applied computing,pages 1556?1560, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Strapparava, C. and A. Valitutti.
2004.
WordNet-Affect: an affective extension of WordNet.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC, volume 4, pages 1083?1086.Strapparava, C., A. Valitutti, and O.
Stock.
2007.Dances with words.
In Proc.
of the 20th Inter-national Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence(IJCAI-07), Hyderabad, India, January.Xin, J.H., K.M.
Cheng, G. Taylor, T. Sato, and A. Han-suebsai.
2004.
A cross-regional comparison ofcolour emotions.
part I. quantitative analysis.
ColorResearch and Application, 29:451?457.Zentner, M. R. 2001.
Preferences for colors and color-emotion combinations in early childhood.
Develop-mental Science, 4(4):389?398.32
