Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 71?74,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsPresupposition Accommodation as Exception HandlingPhilippe de GrooteINRIA Nancy - Grand EstPhilippe.de.Groote@loria.frEkaterina LebedevaINRIA Nancy - Grand EstUHP Nancy 1ekaterina.lebedeva@loria.frAbstractVan der Sandt?s algorithm for handlingpresupposition is based on a ?presuppo-sition as anaphora?
paradigm and is ex-pressed in the realm of Kamp?s DRT.
Inrecent years, we have proposed a type-theoretic rebuilding of DRT that allowsMontague?s semantics to be combinedwith discourse dynamics.
Here we ex-plore van der Sandt?s theory along theline of this formal framework.
It then re-sults that presupposition handling may beexpressed in a purely Montagovian set-ting, and that presupposition accommoda-tion amounts to exception handling.1 IntroductionMontague (1970) argued that there is no essen-tial difference between natural and mathematicallanguages.
He developed a theory that assigns alambda-term for each lexical item, and the mean-ing of a whole sentence could be obtained by com-posing the lambda-terms via functional applica-tion.
However, his theory was limited to singlesentences.
De Groote (2006) extends Montague?sframework with a continuation-passing-style tech-nique, developing a framework that is dynamic ina sense reminiscent of Dynamic Predicate Logic(Groenendijk and Stokhof, 1991).While Montague?s semantics is based onChurch?s (1940) simple type theory and has onlytwo atomic types (?, the type of individuals; and o,the type of propositions), de Groote (2006) addsan atomic type ?
representing the type of the envi-ronment.
For each lambda-term the continuation iswhat is still to be processed, and its type is ?
?
o.Since anaphoric expressions are known to besimilar to presuppositional expressions (van derSandt, 1992), it is natural to ask whether our type-theoretic framework can be extended to handlepresuppositions.
The goal of this paper is to an-swer this question positively, at least in the case ofpresuppositions triggered by definite descriptions.To achieve this goal ?
will not be defined simplyas a list of individuals, but as a list of individualstogether with their properties.2 BackgroundVan der Sandt (1992) argues that presuppositionsand anaphors display similar behavior: they pri-marily have to be bound to some antecedent pre-viously introduced in the discourse.
Therefore,they can be treated by similar mechanisms.
Heimplements his ideas in DRT (Kamp and Reyle,1993) in such a way that for each new sentence aprovisional DRS encoding possible anaphoric ele-ments is constructed.
This provisional DRS is thenmerged with the main DRS, and the presupposi-tional anaphors are resolved in accordance withcertain pragmatic constraints, so that presupposi-tions can be accommodated when lacking a suit-able antecedent.Geurts (1999) proposes an improvement of vander Sandt?s theory, called the binding theory, ac-cording to which anaphora is a kind of presupposi-tion.
Therefore, presuppositions triggered by pro-nouns and definite descriptions can also be accom-modated: a referent is introduced with a poor de-scriptive content and the descriptive content can beenhanced as the discourse unfolds.
Moreover, ac-cording to the presuppositional version of the quo-tation theory of names (Kneale, 1962), names (e.g.John) are synonymous with definite noun phrasesof the form ?the individual named John?.
Hence,presuppositions triggered by names and by defi-nite descriptions can be handled similarly.De Groote?s (2006) dynamic theory providessome improvement over classical DRT.
It allowsthe representations of sentence and discourse to bebuilt from the lexical items in the spirit of Mon-tague.
It provides reference marker renaming for71free and may be implemented using well estab-lished techniques.
We claim that Geurts?
bindingtheory can be incorporated into this framework,providing a fully compositional treatment of defi-nite descriptions.3 Presupposition in Dynamic TheoryWe focus here on presuppositions triggeredby definite descriptions, particularly by propernames, pronouns and possessive noun phrases.3.1 Basic PrinciplesImagine that somebody is about to tell a new storyand the first sentence of this story is (1).This story is about John.
(1)If the listener does not know John, he or she willimmediately imagine a person named ?John?
andmemorize it.
In other words, the listener will ac-commodate the presuppositional content triggeredby the proper name John in the following way:he or she will create a slot in the environment,which is some unit representing the knowledgeabout John, and put there what was just learnedabout John.
Therefore, the listener will be ableto refer to the created slot representing John as thediscourse evolves.
Moreover, the slot for John willbe different from other slots, i.e.
it will have someidentity marker, which we call, following Kart-tunen (1976), reference marker or simply refer-ent.
There is a direct analogy between memoryslots introduced above and Heim?s (1982; 1983)file cards: they are both aimed to store what hasbeen learned about some individual.Let j be the referent for John and assume thatsentence (1) is followed by sentence (2).John loves Mary.
(2)Mary is a new individual in the discourse andtherefore Mary will be accommodated introducinga reference marker m exactly as it happened forJohn after the utterance of (1).
The story is differ-ent for John now.
The listener already has a rep-resentation standing for John in the environment,and he or she just has to turn to the correspond-ing slot (select the marker in the environment) andupdate the slot with the new information that Johnloves Mary (bind John from (2) to the referent j).3.2 Proper NamesTo encode, following Montague?s legacy, the ob-servations discussed above as lambda-terms, wefirst define a selection function sel as a functiontaking two arguments: a property and an environ-ment; and returning a reference marker:sel : (??
o)?
?
?
?
(3)According to Montague, proper names can beinterpreted as type-raised individuals, thus thelambda-term standing for John in Montague?s se-mantics is (4), where j is a constant.
[[John]] = ?P.Pj (4)In the dynamic interpretation, instead of the con-stant j we would like to have a referent corre-sponding to John.
For this, we attempt to selectsuch a referent given a property of being namedJohn, as shown in (5).
[[John]] = ?P.P(sel(named ?John?))
(5)Whether the selection of the marker for John suc-ceeds depends on the current environment.
Hence,instead of using Montague?s individuals (i.e.
oftype ?)
directly, we use individuals parameterizedby the environment (i.e.
having type (?
?
?
)).Noun phrases are regarded as having type (6),which is analogous to the type for noun phrases(7) given by Montague, i.e.
a noun phrase is in-terpreted by a lambda-term that accepts a prop-erty and returns a proposition.
The only differ-ence is that now individuals are always parameter-ized by an environment, and propositions are dy-namic1, i.e.
they have type ?
that is defined as?
?
(?
?
o)?
o.
[[NP]] = ((?
?
?)?
?)?
?
(6)[[NP]] = (?
?
o) ?
o (7)3.3 PronounsPronouns are also presupposition triggers.
It canbe seen in the case of cataphora, such as, for ex-ample, in sentence (8), where in the first part ofthe sentence the pronoun he introduces an individ-ual.
Since pronouns have poorer descriptive con-tent than proper names and they have the type ofnoun phrases (6), they are represented by lambda-terms that are at most as complex as the termsfor proper names.
The term for the pronoun he isshown in (9), which expresses an attempt to selecta human individual having masculine gender.When he woke up, Tom f elt better.
(8)1Analogously, dynamic predicates take two additional ar-guments (environment, of type ?, and continuation, of type(?
?
o)) compared to Montague?s interpretation.72[[he]] = ?P.P(sel (?x.human(x) ?masculine(x))) (9)If the sentence (8) is uttered in a discourse thatdoes not provide a suitable referent, the presuppo-sition trigerred by he will be accommodated (as ithappened for John in (1) and for Mary in (2)).
Thepresuppositional anaphora trigerred by Tom in thesecond part of the sentence could be successfullybound to the introduced referent.3.4 PossessivesConsider the sentence (10), where we have a pos-sessive noun phrase John?s car triggering a pre-supposition that there is a car owned by John.John?s car is red.
(10)The desired interpretation of John?s car is shownin (11), which requires a search in the environmentfor a referent having the property of being a carpossessed by John.
The embedded presuppositionis encoded via a selection function (for the innerpresupposition triggered by John) embedded intoanother selection function (for the outer presuppo-sition related to car).
[[John?s car]] = (11)?P.P(?e.sel(?x.carx ?
poss x sel(named ?John?
)e)e)However, we would like to express John?s carcompositionally in terms of its constituents.
To doso, we define a term (12) taking two arguments -a noun phrase standing for a possessor and a nounstanding for an object being possessed, and return-ing a noun phrase in form of (11).
f is a dynamicconjunction having type (13) and defined in (14).
[[?s]] = ?YX.?P.P(SEL(?x.
((Xx) f Y([[poss]]x)))) (12)f : ??
(??
?)
(13)A f B = ?e?.Ae(?e.Be?)
(14)The term [[poss]] in (12) is a usual dynamic two-arguments predicate, its lambda-term is shown in(15).
SEL is a higher-order selection function.
Ithas the same designation as (3), with the only dif-ference that it functions on the level of dynamicpropositions.
Thus, the type of SEL is (16) and itis analogous to the type of sel spelled in (3).
More-over, SEL is defined via sel, and the correspondinglambda-term is presented in (17).
[[poss]] = ?xy.
?e?.poss(xe)(ye) ?
?e (15)S EL : ((?
?
?)?
?)?
?
?
(?
?
?)
(16)S EL = ?Pe.sel(?x.P(?e.x)e(?e.>))e (17)[[car]] = ?x.
?e?.car(xe) ?
?e (18)If we apply the term [[?s]] to the term (5) for Johnand the term (18) for car, which is just a dynamicunary predicate, we will get the desired result (11).3.5 Implicit ReferentsSometimes an anaphora wants to be bound, eventhough no referent was introduced explicitly, as in(19).
Already after the first sentence, a listenerwill learn that John has a wife, i.e.
introduce anew referent.
The presuppositional anaphora trig-gerred by the possessive noun phrase his wife inthe second sentence will be bound to this referent.John is married.
His wi f e is beauti f ul.
(19)This case can be accounted with the lexical in-terpretation in (20) for being married, which isdefined by a two-arguments relation is married.The first argument of the relation is the argumentx being passed to the lexical interpretation.
Thesecond argument is an individual selected from theenvironment given the property of being either thewife or the husband of x.
[[is married]] =?x.
?e?.is married(xe)(sel(?y.
(wife(y, x)?
husband(y, x)))e) ?
?e(20)3.6 Discourse UpdateA discourse is updated by appending the next sen-tence, as shown in equation (21).
A sentence isdefined as a term having the type of a dynamicproposition, i.e.
its type is (22), while a discourseis defined as a term having the type of a dynamicproposition evaluated over the environment, i.e itstype is (23).
A discourse D updated with a sen-tence S results in a term having type (23), thus ithas one parameter ?
of type (?
?
o).
The bodymust be a term, of type o, contributed by D. D it-self is a term of type (23).
Therefore, it must begiven a continuation as an argument constructedwith S and its continuation.D S = ??.
D(?e.Se?)
(21)[[S ]] = ?
= ?
?
(?
?
o)?
o (22)[[D]] = (?
?
o)?
o (23)However, during the computation of??.D(?e.Se?)
one of the selection functionscan raise an exception containing a message thata referent having some property Q was not foundin the environment.
The exception will be catchedand the property will be returned to the exception73handler.
The handler will have to introduce areferent having the property Q into the represen-tation of the discourse, add this referent to theenvironment, and call the update function passingto it the amended interpretation of the discourseand the sentence S as parameters.
This can beencoded using an exception handling mechanismas shown in (24) for global accommodation.
Notethat the definition of discourse update is recursive.D S = ??.
D(?e.Se?
)handle (fail Q) with??.D(?e.?x.
(Qx) ?
?
((x,Qx) :: e)) S(24)The environment is defined as a list of pairs ?ref-erent ?
proposition?
(25).
The two-place list con-structor :: appends a referent together with thecorresponding propositions into the environment,therefore it has the type shown in (26).?
= list of (?
?
o) (25):: : (?
?
o)?
?
?
?
(26)The selection function sel can implement anyanaphora resolution algorithm, and hence ourframework is not confined to any of them.Considering that the lambda-term for Mary issimilar to (5) and the lambda-term for the tran-sitive verb love is (27), the interpretation for thesentence (2) after beta-reductions will be (28).
[[love]] = ?YX.X(?x.Y(?y.
(?e?.love(xe)(ye) ?
?e))) (27)S2 = [[love]][[John]][[Mary]]????e?.
(love(sel(named ?John?
)e)(sel(named ?Mary?
)e)) ?
?e(28)After the sentence (1), the lambda-term represent-ing discourse will be (29).D1 = ??.?y.
(story y)??
j.
(named ?John?
j)?about (y, j)??
((y, story y) :: ( j, named ?John?
j))(29)After the sentence (2), the lambda-term D1 in (29)will have to be updated with the term S2 in (28)as it is defined by the function (24).
Since wehave a referent for John in the environment of D1,it will be successfuly selected and John from S2will get bound to it.
However, there will be a fail-ure for Mary, particularly on the property (named?Mary?)
since there is no corresponding referentin D1 yet.
The failure will be handled by accom-modating Mary and introducing the sentence S2into the amended interpretation of the discourse,which results in the term shown in (30).D2 = D1  S2 = ??.?y.
(story y)??
j.
(named ?John?
j)?about (y, j)??m.
(named ?Mary?
j)?love ( j,m)??
((m, named ?Mary?m) ::(y, story y) ::( j, named ?John?
j))(30)4 ConclusionsWe showed that de Groote?s (2006) dynamicframework can be applied to presuppositions trig-gered by definite descriptions, such as propernames, possessive noun phrases and pronouns;and that the exception handling mechanisms offera proper way of modeling the dynamics of presup-position.
Other presuppositional expressions, suchas, for example, factives and aspectual verbs, willrequire more technicalities.
Nevertheless, we be-lieve that the approach can be extended to encom-pass a general theory of presupposition and we in-tend to address this in future work.Acknowledgements: We thank the anonymousreviewers for their useful comments.ReferencesChurch, A.
(1940).
A formulation of the simple theory oftypes.
Journal of Symbolic Logic, (5):56?68.de Groote, P. (2006).
Towards a montagovian account of dy-namics.
In Semantics and Linguistic Theory XVI.Geurts, B.
(1999).
Presuppositions and Pronouns, volume 3of CRiSPI.
Elsevier, Amsterdam.Groenendijk, J. and Stokhof, M. (1991).
Dynamic predicatelogic.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 14(1):39?100.Heim, I.
(1982).
The Semantics of Definite and IndefiniteNoun Phrases.
PhD thesis, University of Massachusetts atAmherst.Heim, I.
(1983).
On the projection problem for presupposi-tions.
In Barlow, M., Flickinger, D., and Westcoat, M.,editors, Second Annual West Coast Conference on FormalLinguistics, pages 114?126.
Stanford University.Kamp, H. and Reyle, U.
(1993).
From Discourse to Logic:Introduction to Model-theoretic Semantics of Natural Lan-guage, Formal Logic and Discourse Representation The-ory.
Studies in Linguistics and Philosophy.
Springer.Karttunen, L. (1976).
Discourse referents.
In McCawley, J.,editor, Syntax and Semantics 2: Notes From the Linguis-tic Underground, pages 363?385.
Academic Press, NewYork.Kneale, W. (1962).
Modality de dicto and de re.
In Nagel,E., Suppes, P., and Tarski, A., editors, Logic, methodol-ogy and philosophy of science.
Proceedings of the 1960International Congress, pages 622?633.
Stanford Univer-sity Press.Montague, R. (1970).
Universal grammar.
In Theoria, pages373?398.van der Sandt, R. (1992).
Presupposition projection asanaphora resolution.
Journal of Semantics, 9:333?377.74
