Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 197?201,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsChallenges of Cheap Resource Creation for Morphological TaggingJirka HanaCharles UniversityPrague, Czech Republicfirst.last@gmail.comAnna FeldmanMontclair State UniversityMontclair, New Jersey, USAfirst.last@montclair.eduAbstractWe describe the challenges of resourcecreation for a resource-light system formorphological tagging of fusional lan-guages (Feldman and Hana, 2010).
Theconstraints on resources (time, expertise,and money) introduce challenges that arenot present in development of morphologi-cal tools and corpora in the usual, resourceintensive way.1 IntroductionMorphological analysis, tagging and lemmatiza-tion are essential for many Natural Language Pro-cessing (NLP) applications of both practical andtheoretical nature.
Modern taggers and analyz-ers are very accurate.
However, the standardway to create them for a particular language re-quires substantial amount of expertise, time andmoney.
A tagger is usually trained on a large cor-pus (around 100,000+ words) annotated with thecorrect tags.
Morphological analyzers usually relyon large manually created lexicons.
For exam-ple, the Czech analyzer (Hajic?, 2004) uses a lex-icon with 300,000+ entries.
As a result, most ofthe world languages and dialects have no realis-tic prospect for morphological taggers or analyz-ers created in this way.We have been developing a method for creat-ing morphological taggers and analyzers of fu-sional languages1 without the need for large-scaleknowledge- and labor-intensive resources (Hana etal., 2004; Hana et al, 2006; Feldman and Hana,2010) for the target language.
Instead, we relyon (i) resources available for a related languageand (ii) a limited amount of high-impact, low-1Fusional languages are languages in which several fea-ture values are realized in one morpheme.
For example Indo-European languages, including Czech, German, Romanianand Farsi, are predominantly fusional.cost manually created resources.
This greatly re-duces cost, time requirements and the need for(language-specific) linguistic expertise.The focus of our paper is on the creation of re-sources for the system we developed.
Even thoughwe have reduced the manual resource creation tothe minimum, we have encountered a number ofproblems, including training language annotators,documenting the reasoning behind the tagset de-sign and morphological paradigms for a specificlanguage as well as creating support tools to facil-itate and speed up the manual work.
While theseproblems are analogous to those that arise withstandard resource creation, the approach to theirsolution is often different as we discuss in the fol-lowing sections.2 Resource-light MorphologyThe details of our system are provided in (Feld-man and Hana, 2010).
Our main assumption isthat a model for the target language can be approx-imated by language models from one or more re-lated source languages and that inclusion of a lim-ited amount of high-impact and/or low-cost man-ual resources is greatly beneficial and desirable.We use TnT (Brants, 2000), a second orderMarkov Model tagger.
We approximate the target-language emissions by combining the emissionsfrom the (modified) source language corpus withinformation from the output of our resource-lightanalyzer (Hana, 2008).
The target-language tran-sitions are approximated by the source language(Feldman and Hana, 2010).3 Resource creationIn this section we address the problem of collec-tion, selection and creation of resources neededby our system.
The following resources must beavailable:?
a reference grammar book for information197about paradigms and closed class words,?
a large amount of plain text for learning a lex-icon, e.g.
newspapers from the Internet,?
a large annotated training corpus of a relatedlanguage,?
optionally, a dictionary (or a native speaker)to provide analyses of the most frequentwords,?
a non-expert (not a linguist and not a nativespeaker) to create the resources listed below,?
limited access to a linguist (to make non-obvious decisions in the design of the re-sources),?
limited access to a native speaker (to anno-tate a development corpus, to answer a lim-ited number of language specific questions).and these resources must be created:?
a list of morphological paradigms,?
a list of closed class words with their analy-ses,?
optionally, a list of the most frequent forms,?
a small annotated development corpus.For evaluation, an annotated test corpus mustbe also created.
As this corpus is not part of theresource-light system per se, it can (and should)be as large as possible.3.1 RestrictionsSince our goal is to create resources cheaply andfast, we intentionally limit (but not completely ex-clude) the inclusion of any linguist and of anybodyknowing the target language.
We also limit thetime of training and encoding of the basic target-language linguistic information to a minimum.3.2 TagsetIn traditional settings, a tagset is usually designedby a linguist, moreover a native speaker.
The con-straints of a resource-light system preclude both ofthese qualifications.
Instead, we have standardizedthe process as much as possible to make it possibleto have the tagset designed by a non-expert.3.2.1 Positional TagsetAll languages we work with are morphologicallyrich.
Naturally, such languages require a largenumber of tags to capture their morphologicalproperties.
An obvious way to make it manageableis to use a structured system.
In such a system, atag is a composition of tags each coming from amuch smaller and simpler atomic tagset tagging aparticular morpho-syntactic property (e.g.
genderor tense).
This system has many benefits, includ-ing the 1) relative easiness for a human annotatorto remember individual positions rather than sev-eral thousands of atomic symbols; 2) systematicmorphological description; 3) tag decomposabil-ity; and 4) systematic evaluation.3.2.2 Tagset Design: ProcedureInstead of starting from scratch each time a tagsetfor a new language is created, we have providedan annotated tagset template.
A particular tagsetcan deviate from this template, but only if there isa linguistic reason.
The tagset template includesthe following items:?
order of categories (POS, SubPOS, gender,animacy, number, case, ...) ?
not all mightbe present in that language; additional cate-gories might be needed;?
values for each category (N ?
nouns, C ?
nu-merals, M ?
masculine);?
which categories we do not distinguish, eventhough we could (proper vs. common nouns);?
a fully worked out commented example (asmentioned above).Such a template not only provides a generalguidance, but also saves a lot of time, becausemany of rather arbitrary decisions involved in anytagset creation are done just once (e.g.
symbols de-noting basic POS categories, should numerals beincluded as separate POS, etc.).
As stated, a tagsetmay deviate from such a template, but only if thereis a specific reason for it.3.3 Resources for the morphological analyzerOur morphological analyzer relies on a small setof morphological paradigms and a list of closedclass and/or most frequent words.1983.3.1 Morphological paradigmsFor each target language, we create a list ofmorphological paradigms.
We just encode basicfacts about the target language morphology froma standard grammar textbook.
On average, thebasic morphology of highly inflected languages,such as Slavic languages, are captured in 70-80paradigms.
The choices on what to cover involvea balance between precision, coverage and effort.3.3.2 A list of frequent formsEntering a lexicon entry is very costly, both interms of time and knowledge needed.
While it isusually easy (for a native speaker) to assign a wordto one of the major paradigm groups, it takes con-siderably more time to select the exact paradigmvariant differing only in one or two forms (in fact,this may be even idiolect-dependent).
For exam-ple, in Czech, it is easy to see that the word atom?atom?
does not decline according to the neuterparadigm me?sto ?town?, but it takes more time todecide to which of the hard masculine inanimateparadigms it belongs.
On the other hand, enter-ing possible analyses for individual word forms isusually very straightforward.
Therefore, our sys-tem uses a list of manually provided analyses forthe most common forms.Note that the process of providing the list offorms is not completely manual ?
the correct anal-yses are selected from those suggested on the ba-sis of the words?
endings.
This can be done rel-atively quickly by a native speaker or by a non-native speaker with the help of a basic grammarbook and a dictionary.3.4 DocumentationSince the main idea of the project is to createresources quickly for an arbitrarily selected fu-sional language, we cannot possibly create anno-tation and language encoding manuals for eachlanguage.
So, we created a manual that explainsthe annotation and paradigm encoding procedurein general and describes the main attributes andpossible values that a language consultant needsto consider when working on a specific language.The manual has five parts:1.
How to summarize the basic facts about themorphosyntax of a language;2.
How to create a tagset3.
How to encode morphosyntactic properties ofthe target language in paradigms;4.
How to create a list of closed class words.5.
Corpus annotation manualThe instructions are mostly language indepen-dent (with some bias toward Indo-European lan-guages), but contain a lot of examples from lan-guages we have processed so far.
These includesuggestions how to analyze personal pronouns,what to do with clitics or numerals.3.5 ProcedureThe resource creation procedure involves at leasttwo people: a native speaker who can annotatea development corpus, and a non-native speakerwho is responsible for the tagset design, morpho-logical paradigms, and a list of closed class wordsor frequent forms.
Below we describe our proce-dure in more detail.3.5.1 Tagset and MA resources creationWe have realized that even though we do not needa native speaker, some understanding of at leastbasic morphological categories the language usesis helpful.
So, based on our experience, it is bet-ter to hire a person who speaks (natively or not) alanguage with some features in common.
For ex-ample, for Polish, somebody knowing Russian isideal, but even somebody speaking German (it hasgenders and cases) is much better than a personspeaking only English.
In addition, a person whohad created resources for one language performsmuch better on the next target language.
Knowl-edge comes with practice.The order of work is as follows:1.
The annotator is given basic training that usu-ally includes the following: 1) brief explana-tion of the purpose of the project; 2) tagsetdesign; 3) paradigm creation.2.
The annotator summarizes the basic factsabout the morphosyntax of a language,3.
The first version of the tagset is created.4.
The list of paradigms and closed-class wordsis compiled.
During this process, the tagset isfurther adjusted.1993.5.2 Corpus annotationThe annotators do not annotate from scratch.We first run our morphological analyzer onthe selected corpus; the annotators then dis-ambiguate the output.
We have created asupport tool (http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/?hana/law.html) that displays the word to beannotated, its context, the lemma and possible tagssuggested by the morphological analyzer.
There isan option to insert a new lemma and a new tag ifnone of the suggested items is suitable.
The tagsare displayed together with their natural languagetranslation.4 Case studiesOur case studies include Russian via Czech, Rus-sian via Polish, Russian via Czech and Polish, Por-tuguese via Spanish, and Catalan via Spanish.We use these languages to test our hypothesesand we do not suggest that morphological taggingof these languages should be designed in the waywe do.
Actually, high precision systems that usemanually created resources already exist for theselanguages.
The main reason for working withthem is that we can easily evaluate our system onexisting corpora.We experimented with the direct transfer oftransition probabilities, cognates, modifying tran-sitions to make them more target-like, training abattery of subtaggers and combining the results(Reference omitted).
Our best result on Russianis 81.3% precision (on the full 15-slot tag, on allPOSs), and 92.2% (on the detailed POS).
We havealso noticed that the most difficult categories arenouns and adjectives.
If we improve on these in-dividual categories, we will improve significantlythe overall result.
The precision of our modelon Catalan is 87.1% and 91.1% on the full tagand SubPOS, respectively.
The Portuguese perfor-mance is comparable as well.The resources our experiments have relied uponinclude the following:1.
Russian?
Tagset, paradigms, word-list: speaker ofCzech and linguist, some knowledge ofRussian?
Dev corpus: a native speaker & linguist2.
Catalan?
Tagset: modified existing tagset (de-signed by native speaking linguists)?
paradigms, word-list: linguist speakingRussian and English?
Dev corpus: a native speaking linguists3.
Portuguese?
Tagset: modified Spanish tagset (de-signed by native speaking linguists) byus?
paradigms, word-list: a native speakinglinguist?
Dev corpus: a native speaking linguist4.
Romanian?
Tagset, paradigms, word-list: designedby a non-linguist, speaker of English?
Dev corpus ?
a native speakerNaturally, we cannot expect the tagging accu-racy to be 100%.
There are many factors that con-tribute to the performance of the model:1. target language morphosyntactic complexity,2.
source-language?target-language proximity,3.
quality of the paradigms,4.
quality of the cognate pairs (that are used forapproximating emissions),5. time spent on language analysis,6.
expertise of language consultants,7.
supporting tools.5 SummaryWe have described challenges of resource creationfor resource-light morphological tagging.
Theseinclude creating clear guidelines for tagset designthat can be reusable for an arbitrarily selected lan-guage; precise formatting instructions; providingbasic linguistic training with the emphasis on mor-phosyntactic properties of fusional languages; cre-ating an annotation support tool; and giving timelyand constructive feedback on intermediate results.6 AcknowledgementThe development of the tagset was supported bythe GAC?R grant P406/10/P328 and by the U.S.NSF grant # 0916280.200ReferencesThorsten Brants.
2000.
TnT - A Statistical Part-of-Speech Tagger.
In Proceedings of 6th Applied Nat-ural Language Processing Conference and NorthAmerican chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics annual meeting (ANLP-NAACL),pages 224?231.Anna Feldman and Jirka Hana.
2010.
A Resource-lightApproach to Morpho-syntactic Tagging, volume 70of Language and Computers: Studies in PracticalLinguistics.
Rodopi, Amsterdam/New York.Jan Hajic?.
2004.
Disambiguation of Rich Inflection:Computational Morphology of Czech.
Karolinum,Charles University Press, Prague, Czech Republic.Jirka Hana, Anna Feldman, and Chris Brew.
2004.A Resource-light Approach to Russian Morphol-ogy: Tagging Russian Using Czech Resources.In Proceedings of Empirical Methods for NaturalLanguage Processing (EMNLP), pages 222?229,Barcelona, Spain.Jirka Hana, Anna Feldman, Luiz Amaral, and ChrisBrew.
2006.
Tagging Portuguese with a Span-ish Tagger Using Cognates.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Cross-language Knowledge Inductionhosted in conjunction with the 11th Conference ofthe European Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (EACL), pages 33?40, Trento,Italy.Jirka Hana.
2008.
Knowledge- and labor-light mor-phological analysis.
OSUWPL, 58:52?84.201
