Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 95?98,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsRoute Communication in Dialogue: a Matter of PrinciplesTheodora KoulouriDepartment of Information Systemsand ComputingBrunel UniversityMiddlesex UB8 3PHtheodora.koulouri@brunel.ac.ukStanislao LauriaDepartment of Information Systemsand ComputingBrunel UniversityMiddlesex UB8 3PHstasha.lauria@brunel.ac.ukAbstractThe present study uses the dialogue paradigmto explore route communication.
It revolvesaround the analysis of a corpus of route in-structions produced in real-time interactionwith the follower.
It explores the variation informing route instructions and the factors thatcontribute in it.
The results show that visualco-presence influences the performance, con-versation patterns and configuration of instruc-tions.
Most importantly, the results suggest ananalogy between the choices of instruction-givers and the communicative actions of theirpartners.1.1 Spatial language in dialogueThe main question this paper attempts to ad-dress is how people produce route instructions indialogue.
The current zeitgeist in language re-search and dialogue system development seemsto be the unified investigation of spatial languageand dialogue (Coventry et al, 2009).
Indicativeof the growing prioritisation of dialogue in thestudy of spatial language are the on-going re-search efforts within the MapTask1 project andthe GIVE challenge2 .1.2 A framework for the analysis of routeinstructionsThe study uses CORK (Communication of RouteKnowledge, (Allen 2000)), a framework whichprovides a component-based analysis of routeinstructions.
The CORK taxonomy differentiatesbetween instructions that are directives (actionstatements with verbs of movement) and descrip-tive statements (with state-of-being verbs, like?be?
and ?see?).
Descriptives present a static pic-1 http://www.hcrc.ed.ac.uk/maptask/2 http://www.give-challenge.org/research/ture of spatial relations and provide the followerthe opportunity to verify his position or reorienthimself.
The taxonomy also considers elementsthat provide specificity and distinguishing infor-mation about environmental features, called de-limiters.
Within this framework, Allen (2000)describes a set of principles pertaining to theconfiguration of route descriptions.
Namely,people concentrate descriptives and delimiters onpoints along the route that offer for uncertainty(like crossroads).
Moreover, the selection andplacement of these components depends on thecharacteristics of the environment and the per-ceived needs of the follower.
Evidence from em-pirical work supports the framework, reportingthat errors in navigation increased when the routedirections violated these principles.
Nevertheless,the applicability of the suggested principles hasonly been tested in scenarios in which the direc-tions were produced beforehand by either theexperimenters or a separate group of subjects.1.3 The effect of visual informationStudies exploring the effect of visual informationon task-oriented interaction converge on that vis-ual feedback leads to more efficient interactionsand influences the conversational patterns be-tween participants (Clark and Krych, 2004; Ger-gle et al, 2004; Koulouri and Lauria, 2009).These phenomena are generally attributed to theease of establishing ?common ground?
whenvisual feedback is available.
However, to the au-thors?
knowledge, most related studies have fo-cused on high-level analysis of dialogue acts andmany aspects of how interlocutors adapt theirlinguistic choices remain undefined.1.4 Aims and hypotheses of studyThe present study provides an empirical accountof route instructions, as they emerge in real-timeinteraction with the follower.
We offer the fol-95lowing tentative hypotheses.
Since visual co-presence facilitates grounding of information, itis expected to have a major effect on how routeinstructions are configured.
Next, putting addi-tional emphasis on the inter-individual processesinvolved in language use, this study aims to testwhether the linguistic options mobilised by theinstructor ultimately depend upon the contribu-tions of the follower.2 MethodsA study was designed to elicit natural route in-structions in a restricted context.
Pairs of partici-pants collaborated in a navigation task, in a ?Wi-zard-of-Oz?
set-up.
The instructors provided in-structions to navigate their partners to designatedlocations in a simulated town, being under theimpression that they were interacting with asoftware agent (robot).
The study manipulatedtwo factors; i) availability of visual informationon follower?s actions and ii), follower?s interac-tive capacity.
With regard to the first factor, therewere two conditions in which the ability to moni-tor the actions of the ?robot?
was either removedor provided.
The second factor also involved twoconditions.
In the first condition, the followerscould interact using unconstrained language(henceforth, ?Free?
condition).
In the secondcondition (henceforth, ?Constrained?
condition),a set of predetermined responses available to thefollowers aimed to coerce them towards more?automated?
contributions; for instance, ?open-ended?
repairs such as ?What?
?, which provideno specific information on the source of theproblem.
However, the followers were still ableto be interactive if they wished so, by clickingthe relevant buttons to request clarification orprovide location information.The study followed a between-subjects fac-torial design.
A total of 56 students were allo-cated in the four conditions: Monitor-Free,Monitor-Constrained, No Monitor-Free, NoMonitor-Constrained.
The experimental proce-dure is described in detail in (Koulouri andLauria, 2009).2.1 Set-upThe experiment relied on a custom-built sys-tem which supported the interactive simulationand enabled real-time direct text communicationbetween the pairs.
The interfaces consisted of agraphical display and a dialogue box.The interface of the instructor displayed thefull map of the simulated town (Figure 1).
On theupper right corner of the interface, there could bea small ?monitor?, in which the robot?s imme-diate locality was displayed, but not the robotitself.
The presence of the monitor feature de-pended on the experimental condition.The followers?
interface displayed a fractionof the map, the surroundings of the robot?s cur-rent position.
The robot was operated by the fol-lower using the arrow keys on the keyboard.
Inthe ?Free?
conditions followers could freely typemessages.
In the ?Constrained?
conditions, thefollowers needed to use the buttons on the inter-face (Figure 2).Figure 1.
The instructor?s interface in the Monitorconditions.
The monitor window on the upper rightcorner was removed in No Monitor conditions.Figure 2.
The follower?s interface in the Constrainedconditions.
In the Free conditions, there were no but-tons and followers could freely type any message.2.2 Data analysisThe analysis of the corpus of route instructionsfollowed the CORK framework (Allen, 2000).Communicative statements were classified asDirectives or Descriptives.
These communica-tive statements could contain references to envi-ronmental features.
The types of environmentalfeatures considered were: Locations (e.g., build-ings or bridges), Pathways (e.g., streets), ChoicePoints (e.g., junctions) and Destination.
Last,instructions can be composed of delimiters,which fall into four categories:1.
Distance designations: e.g., ?...until yousee a car park?.2.
Direction designations: e.g., ?go left?.3.
Relational terms: e.g., ?on your left?,4.
Modifiers: e.g., ?big red bridge?, ?takethe first/second/last road?.963 ResultsThe experiment yielded a large corpus of 160dialogues, composed of 3,386 turns.
1,485 in-structions were collected.
First, the analysis con-siders some common measures of efficiency.Next, the results of the component analysis ofinstructions are presented.3.1 Efficiency of interactionThe number and length of turns and instructionsand time needed to complete each task are typi-cally used as measures of the efficiency of inter-action.
Additionally, fewer execution and under-standing failures are taken as indicators of supe-rior performance.Time, number of turns, words and instruc-tions: The ANOVA performed on time per taskshowed no reliable significant differences amonggroups.
On the other hand, significant effectswere observed with regard to all other dependentvariables.
An interaction effect was revealed af-ter analysis on numbers of turns (F(1, 24) =3.993, p = .05).
Pairs in the Monitor-Free condi-tion required less turns to complete the taskcompared to the other groups (column 1 of Table1).
It seems however that instructors in bothMonitor conditions were dominating the conver-sational floor, having produced about 58% of theturns, compared to instructors in the No Monitorconditions (F(1, 24) = 5.303, p = .03).
Neverthe-less, it was not the case that instructors in Moni-tor conditions were ?wordier?.
The number ofwords was similar among all instructor groups.The results indicated that the total number ofwords required to complete a task was muchlower in Monitor conditions (F(1, 24) = = 5.215,p = 0.03) (see column 3 in Table 1).
Next, in-structors in Monitor conditions gave more in-structions to guide the followers to the destina-tion (F(1, 24) = 3.494, p = .07).
However, theseinstructions were considerably shorter comparedto the instructions provided by No Monitor in-structors (F(1, 24) = 4.268, p = .05).
All differ-ences are amplified in the Monitor-Constrainedgroup, in which more turns and instructions wereneeded but with fewer words and the ?turn pos-session?
of the instructor was the highest amongthe groups.Con-dition#Turnspertask%In-struc-torTurns#Words pertask#WordsperInstruc-tion#Instruc-tions pertaskMiscom-munica-tion pertaskM-F 16.74 57.12% 87.33 4.70 9.08 1.14M-C 23.95 58.86% 65.02 3.01 11.73 2.05NM-F 23.63 52.28% 105.38 5.29 8.58 1.20NM-C 20.15 50.62% 100.35 5.07 7.68 0.69Table 1.
Summary of Results (mean values).Frequency of miscommunication: Miscom-munication was calculated by considering twomeasures: the number of execution errors and offollower turns that were tagged as expressingnon-understanding.
The ANOVA revealed aninteraction effect (F (1, 24) = 4.012, p = .05).Striking differences were observed between theMonitor-Constrained group and the rest; in par-ticular, followers in this condition were twice orthree times more likely to fail to understand andexecute instructions (see last column in Table 1).3.2 Component analysis of instructionsThis section presents the results of the analysison inclusion of landmark references, types ofdelimiters and communicative statements.Landmark references: Instructors in both NoMonitor conditions preferred to produce instruc-tions that were anchored on landmarks, especial-ly on 3D locations such as buildings (28% ofinstructions contained locations vs 14% in theMonitor conditions, (F (1, 24) = 12.034, p =.002)).
On the other hand, Monitor instructorsopted for simple action prescriptions.
Particular-ly, 75% of the instructions in the Monitor-Constrained condition omitted any kind of refer-ence (compared to an average of 42% in the oth-er conditions).Delimiters: Category 2 delimiters that pro-vided simple direction information were preva-lent in Monitor conditions (F (1, 24) = 11.407, p= .002).
Further, an interaction effect was found(F (1, 24) = 3.802, p = .01); the number of cate-gory 2 delimiters almost doubles in the Monitor-Constrained condition.
On the contrary, the useof category 1 delimiters, which provide informa-tion on the boundary of the route is very limitedin the Monitor-Constrained condition (F (1, 24) =5.350, p = .03).
The third category of delimitersincludes terms that specify the relation betweentraveller and an environmental feature (?on yourleft?)
or between environmental features.
Again,the difference arises in the Monitor-Constrainedcondition, which included the lowest number ofcategory 3 delimiters (marginal effect, F (1, 24)= 3.392, p = .07).
Finally, the analysis performedon the frequency of category 4 delimiters did notyield any significant effect.Directive and descriptive communicativestatements: An interaction effect was revealedwith regard to the proportion of directives and97descriptives in the corpus (F (1, 24) = 3.830, p =.06).
The instructors in the Monitor-Constrainedcondition produced less descriptives, which giveinformation about relations among features in theenvironment and tap perceptual experience (?youwill see a bridge?).
In particular, in the Monitor-Constrained condition, 4.7% of instructions weredescriptives, whereas the proportion of descrip-tives averaged 10% in all other conditions.4 DiscussionThe results resonate with previous research.
Theactions of the followers served as an immediate,accurate and effortless indicator of their currentstate of understanding, making verbal feedbackredundant.
Monitor instructors could readily con-firm their assumptions about the information re-quirements of followers and used linguisticsshortcuts and simpler instructions exactly at themoment needed.
On the other hand, in the NoMonitor condition, uncertainty about the positionand movement of the robot created the need forelaborate and explicit instructions.
The contribu-tion of the present study lies on that it groundsthese observations on quantitative analysis, usingmeasures like words, turns and the relative fre-quencies of certain types of instruction compo-nents that vary in information value.
Most impor-tantly, it describes the specific ways in whichinstructors configure their directions in the pres-ence/absence of visual information.The CORK framework predicts that route pro-tocols which are rich in descriptives and rela-tional terms are associated with more successfulnavigation, compared to simple directional ones.Our results partially meet this expectation, sincelarge numbers of execution errors and non-understandings were only observed in the Moni-tor-Constrained condition, whereas miscommu-nication rates were similar across the othergroups.
Indeed, this condition was found to gen-erally differ from the rest.
In particular, In theMonitor-Constrained condition, the dialogueswere the shortest in terms of words.
Instructorsproduced many but short instructions.
The com-ponent-based analysis revealed that they em-ployed overwhelmingly more action-based in-structions without landmark references and de-scriptives.
Boundary information on the route,frame of reference and spatial relations betweenenvironmental features were typically omitted.
Inboth Constrained conditions, followers were ex-pected to resort to a ?mechanical?
interaction, ascoerced by the presence of the predefined re-sponses.
Inspection of the dialogues revealed thatfollowers in the Monitor-Constrained conditiondid so, given the precedence of visual feedback.This was not the case with No Monitor-Constrained followers who needed to verballyground information.
Dialogue examples are pro-vided in Table 2 below.I: turn aroundI: go straightaheadI: stopI: turn left hereI: go aheadF: What?I: Go straightaheadI: Now keep going down the road untilyou see a car parkF: I am in front of the car parkI: turn right and walk till the end,along the road you will see a gym on yourrightF: yes gym to my right sideI: good, keep going straight andyou will see a factory on your leftTable 2.
Dialogue excerpts from the Monitor-Constrained (column 1) and No Monitor-Constrained(column 2) conditions.Thus, we propose that the linguistic choices ofthe followers ?prime?
the instructor?s own strat-egies.
In the Monitor-Constrained Condition,followers were less interactive, and gave fewerresponses with lower information value.
In har-mony, their partners provided less elaborate in-structions, which also lacked important informa-tion and specificity.In conclusion, the findings confirm our initialhypotheses.
Instructions are sensitive to condi-tions of (visual) co-presence.
Moreover, a directlink was identified between the way in whichinstructions and follower?s contributions areformulated.
Following this lead, we are now fo-cusing on a fine-grained analysis of the utter-ances of the follower.ReferencesDarren Gergle, Robert E. Kraut and Susan E. Fussell.2004.
Language Efficiency and Visual Technolo-gy: Minimizing Collaborative Effort with VisualInformation.
Journal of Language and Social Psy-chology, 23(4):491-517.
Sage Publications, CA.Gary L. Allen.
2000.
Principles and Practices forCommunicating Route Knowledge.
Applied Cog.Psychology.14(4):333?359.Herbert H. Clark and Meredyth A. Krych.
2004.Speaking While Monitoring Addressees for Under-standing.
J. of Memory and Language, 50:62-81.Kenny Coventry, Thora Tenbrink and John Bateman,2009.
Spatial Language and Dialogue: Navigatingthe Domain.
In K. Coventry, T. Tenbrink, and J.Bateman (Eds.)
Spatial Language and Dialogue.
1-8.
Oxford University Press.
Oxford, UK.Theodora Koulouri and Stanislao Lauria.
2009.
Ex-ploring Miscommunication and Collaborative Be-haviour in Human-Robot Interaction, SIGdial09.98
