Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on ?Collaboratively Constructed Semantic Resources?, Coling 2010, pages 55?62,Beijing, August 2010Identifying and Ranking Topic Clusters in the BlogosphereM.
Atif QureshiKorea Advanced Institute ofScience and Technologyatifms@kaist.ac.krArjumand YounusKorea Advanced Institute ofScience and Technologyarjumandms@kaist.ac.krMuhammad SaeedUniversity of Karachisaeed@uok.edu.pkNasir TouheedInstitute of Business Administra-tionntouheed@iba.edu.pkAbstractThe blogosphere is a huge collaborativelyconstructed resource containing diverseand rich information.
This diversity andrichness presents a significant researchchallenge to the Information Retrievalcommunity.
This paper addresses thischallenge by proposing a method foridentification of ?topic clusters?
withinthe blogosphere where topic clustersrepresent the concept of grouping togeth-er blogs sharing a common interest i.e.topic, the algorithm takes into accountboth the hyperlinked social network ofblogs along with the content in the blogposts.
Additionally we use various formsand parts-of-speech of the topic to pro-vide a broader coverage of the blogos-phere.
The next step of the method is toassign topic-specific ranks to each blogin the cluster using a metric called ?TopicDiscussion Rank,?
that helps in identify-ing the most influential blog for a specif-ic topic.
We also perform an experimen-tal evaluation of our method on real blogdata and show that the proposed methodreaches a high level of accuracy.1 IntroductionWith a proliferation of Web 2.0 services and ap-plications there has been a major paradigm shiftin the way we envision the World Wide Web(Anderson, 2007; O?Reilly, 2005).
Previously theWeb was considered as a medium to access in-formation in a read-only fashion.
Weblogs orblogs is one such application that has played aneffective role in making the Web a social gather-ing point for masses.
The most appealing aspectof blogs is the empowerment they provide topeople on the World Wide Web by enablingthem to publish their own opinions, ideas, andthoughts on many diverse topics of their owninterest generally falling into politics, economics,sports, technology etc.
A blog is usually like apersonal diary (Sorapure, 2003) with the differ-ence that it's now online and accessible to remotepeople, it consists of posts arranged chronologi-cally by date and it can be updated on a regularbasis by the author of the blog known as blogger.Moreover bloggers have the option to link toother blogs thereby creating a social networkwithin the world of blogs called the blogos-phere ?
in short the blogosphere is a collabora-tively constructed resource with rich informationon a wide spectrum of topics having characteris-tics very different from the traditional Web.However with these differing characteristics ofblogs arise many research challenges and this isin particular the case for the Information Retriev-al domain.
One important problem that ariseswithin this huge blogosphere (Sifry, 2009) iswith respect to identification of topic clusters.Such a task involves identification of the keyblog clusters that share a common interest point(i.e., topic) reflected quite frequently throughtheir blog posts.
This is a special type of cluster-55ing problem with useful applications in the do-main of blog search as Mishne and de Rijke(2006) point out in their study of blog searchabout the concept queries submitted by users ofblog search systems.Moreover ranking these bloggers with respectto their interest in the topic is also a crucial taskin order to recognize the most influential bloggerfor that specific topic.
However the blog rankingproblem has a completely different nature thanthe web page ranking problem and link populari-ty based algorithms cannot be applied for rankingblogs.
The reasons for why link based methodscannot be used for blog ranking are as follows:Blogs have very few links when com-pared to web pages; Leskovec et alreport that average number of linksper blog post is only 1.6 links (2007).This small number of links per blogresults in formation of very sparsenetwork especially when trying to findblogs relevant to a particular topic.Blog posts are associated with a time-stamp and they need some time forgetting in-links.
In most of the caseswhen they receive the links the topicswhich they talk about die out.When link based ranking techniques areused for blogs, bloggers at times as-sume the role of spammers and try toexploit the system to boost rank oftheir blogs.In this paper we propose a solution for identifi-cation of topic clusters from within the blogos-phere for any topic of interest.
We also devise away to assign topic-specific ranks for each iden-tified blog within the topic cluster.
The cluster isidentified by the calculation of a metric called?Topic Discussion Isolation Rank (TDIR).?
Eachblog in the cluster is also assigned a topic rankby further calculation of another metric ?TopicDiscussion Rank (TDR).?
The first metric"TDIR" is applied to a blog in isolation for thetopic under consideration and the second metric"TDR" takes into account the blog?s role in itsneighborhood for that specific topic.
Our workdiffers from past approaches (Kumar et al, 2003;Gruhl et al, 2004; Chi et al, 2007; Li et al, 2009)in that it takes into consideration both the linksbetween the blogs as well as the content in theblog posts whereas a majority of the past me-thods follow only link structure.
Furthermore wemake use of some natural language processingtechniques to ensure better coverage of our clus-ter-finding and ranking methodology.
We alsoperform an experimental evaluation of our pro-posed solution and release the resultant data ofblog clusters and the ranks as an XML corpus.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
Section 2 presents a brief summary ofrelated work in this dimension and explains howour proposed methodology differs from theseworks.
Section 3 explains the concept of ?topicclusters?
in detail along with a description of oursolution for clustering and ranking blogs on basisof topics.
Section 4 explains our experimentalmethodology and presents our experimentalevaluations on a corpus of 50,471 blog posts ga-thered from 102 blogs.
Section 5 concludes thepaper with a discussion of future work in thisdirection.2 Related WorkGiven the vast amount of useful information inthe blogosphere there have been many researchefforts for mining and analysis of theblogosphere.
This section reviews some of theworks that are relevant to our study.There have been several works with respect tocommunity detection in the blogosphere: one ofthe oldest works in this dimension is by Kumaret al who studied the bursty nature of theblogosphere by extracting communities using thehyperlinks between the blogs (2003).
Gruhl et alproposed a transmission graph to study the flowof information in the blogosphere and theproposed model is based on disease-propagationmodel in epidemic studies (2004).
Chi et alstudied the evolution of blog communities overtime and introduced the concept of communityfactorization (2007).
A fairly recent work is byLi et al that studies the information propagationpattern in the blogosphere through cascadeaffinity which is an inclination of a blogger tojoin a particular blog community (2009).
Apartfrom detection of communities within theblogosphere another related study which hasrecently attracted much interest is of identifyinginfluentials within a ?blog community?
(Nakajima et al, 2005; Agarwal et al, 2008).
All56these works base their analysis on link structureof the blogosphere whereas our analytical modeldiffers from these works in that it assigns topicbased ranks to the blogs by taking into accountboth links and blog post?s contents.Along with the community detection problemin the blogosphere there has also been an increas-ing interest in ranking blogs.
Fujimura et alpoint out the weak nature of hyperlinks in theweb blogs and due to that nature they devise aranking algorithm for blog entries that uses thestructural characteristic of blogs; the algorithmenables a new blog entry or other entries thathave no in-links to be rated according to the pastperformance of the blogger (2005).
There is afairly recent work closely related to ours per-formed by Hassan et al(2009) and this workidentifies the list of particularly important blogswith recurring interest in a specific topic; theirapproach is based on lexical similarity and ran-dom walks.3 Cluster Finding and Ranking Metho-dologyIn this section we explain the concept of ?topicclusters?
in detail and go into the details of whywe deviate from the traditional term of ?blogcommunity?
in the literature.
After this signifi-cant discussion we then move on to explain ourproposed method for identification and rankingof the ?topic clusters?
in the blogosphere: twometrics ?topic discussion isolation rank?
and?topic discussion rank?
are used for this purpose.3.1 Topic ClustersAs explained in section 2 the problem of group-ing together blogs has been referred to as the?community detection problem?
in the literature.However an aspect ignored by most of theseworks is the contents of the blogs.
Additionallymost of the works in this dimension find a blogcommunity by following blog threads?
discus-sions/conversations (Nakajima et al, 2005;Agarwal et al, 2008) which may not always bethe case as blogs linking to each other are notnecessarily part of communications or threads.With the advent of micro blogging tools suchas Twitter (Honeycutt and Herring, 2009) therole of blogs as a conversational medium hasdiminished and bloggers link to each other as asocially networked cluster by linking to theirmost favorite blogs on their home page as isshown in the snapshot of a blog in Figure 1:Normally those bloggers link to each otherthat have similar interests and importantly talkabout same topics.
Hence the idea of topic clusteris used to extract those clusters from the blogos-phere that have  strong interest in some specifictopics which they mention frequently in theirblog posts and additionally they form a linkedcluster of blogs.
As pointed out by Hassan et althe ?task of providing users with a list of particu-larly important blogs with a recurring interest ina specific topic is a problem that is very signifi-cant in the Information Retrieval domain?(2009).
For the purpose of solving this problemwe propose the notion of ?topic clusters.?
Thetask is much different from traditional communi-Figure 1: Blog Showing the List of Blogs it Follows57ty detection in the blogosphere as it utilizes bothcontent and link based analysis.
The process offinding topic clusters is carried out by calculatinga metric ?Topic Discussion Isolation Rank?which we explain in detail in section 3.3.3.2 Rank Assignment to Topic ClustersAs we explained in section 1, due to the uniquenature of the blogosphere, traditional link-basedmethods such as PageRank (Page et al, 1998)may not be appropriate for the ranking task inblogs.
This is the main reason that we use thecontent of blog posts and lexical similarity inblog posts along with links for the rank assign-ment function that we propose.
Furthermore wetake a blog as aggregate of all its posts for theretrieval task.3.3 Topic Discussion Isolation RankTopic Discussion Isolation Rank is a metric thatis used to find the cluster of blogs for a specifictopic.
It takes each blog in isolation and analysesthe contents of its posts to discover its interest ina queried topic.
We consider a blog along threedimensions as Figure 2 shows:As mentioned in section 1 of this paper weutilize some natural language processing tech-niques to ensure better coverage of our cluster-finding and ranking methodology: those tech-niques are applied along the part of speech di-mension shown in Figure 1, for a given topic weanalyze blog post contents not only for that par-ticular topic but also for its associated adjectivesand adverbs i.e.
the topic itself is treated as anoun and its adjectives and adverbs are also used.For example if the topic of interest is ?democra-cy?
we will also analyze the blog post contentsfor adjective ?democratic?
and adverb ?demo-cratically.?
Furthermore, a weight in descendingorder is assigned to the noun (denoted as wn),adjective (denoted as wadj) and adverb (denotedas wadv) of the queried topic where wn>wadj>wadv.This approach guarantees better coverage of theblogosphere and the chances of missing out blogsthat have interest in the queried topic are minim-al.
The blog post number denotes the number ofthe post in which the word is found and occur-rence is a true/false parameter denoting whetheror not the word exists in the blog post.
Based onthese three dimensions we formulated the TDIRmetric as follows:1+ (nnounx wn)+(nadjectivex wadj)+(nadverbx wadv)Number of total postsHere wn,wadj andwadvare as explained pre-viously in this section and nnoundenotes the num-ber of times nouns are found in all the blog posts,nadjectivedenotes the number of times adjectivesare found in all the blog posts and nadverbdenotesthe number of times adverbs are found in all theblog posts.
This metric is calculated for eachblog in isolation and the blogs that have TDIRvalue of greater than 1 are considered part of thetopic cluster.Additionally we also use various forms of thequeried topic in the calculation of TDIR as thisalso ensures better coverage during the clusterdetection process.
In the world of the blogos-phere, bloggers have all the freedom to use what-ever terms they want to use for a particular topicand it is this freedom which adds to the difficultyof the Information Retrieval community.
Withinthe TDIR metric we propose use of alternateterms/spellings/phrases for a given topic ?
anexample being the use of ?Obama?
by somebloggers and ?United States first Black Presi-dent?
or ?United States?
Black President?
by oth-ers.
Such ambiguity with respect to posts talkingabout same topic but using different phras-es/spellings/terms can be resolved by using acorpus-based approach with listing of alternatephrases and terms for the broad topics.
Moreoverthe weights used for each of the part of speech?noun?, ?adjective?
and ?adverb?
in the TDIRmetric can be adjusted differently for differenttopics with some topics having a stronger indica-Figure 2: Blog TDIR Dimensions58tion of discussion of that topic through occur-rence of noun and some through occurrence ofadjective or adverb.
Some examples of these var-ious measures are shown in our experimentalevaluations that are explained in section 4.3.4 Topic Discussion RankAfter the cluster-finding phase we perform theranking step by means of Topic Discussion Rank.It is in this phase that the socially networked andlinked blogs play a role in boosting each other?sranks.
It is reasonable to assign a higher topicrank to a blog that has interest in the specific top-ic and is also a follower of many blogs with simi-lar topic discussions than one that mentions thetopic under consideration but does not link toother similar blogs: Topic Discussion Rank doesthat by taking into account both link structureand TDIR explained in previous section.
This hasthe advantage of taking into account both factors:the content of the blog posts and the link struc-ture of its neighborhood.The following piecewise function shows howthe metric Topic Discussion Rank is calculated:Explanation of notations used:b - blogo : (o,b) ?
outlinks from blog bThe TDR is same as the TDIR in case of theblog having zero outlinks as such a blog exists inisolation and does not have a strong participationwithin the social network of the blogosphere.
Inthe case of a blog having one or more outlinks toother blogs we add its own TDIR to the factor.Here matching links represent blogs that arepart of topic cluster for a given topic (i.e.
thosehaving TDIR greater than 1 as explained in sec-tion 3.3) and each matching link?s TDIR issummed up and multiplied by a factor calleddamp.
Note that summation of TDIR is used inthe first iteration only, in the other iterations it isreplaced by TDR of the blogs.Furthermore it is important to note that theprocess of TDR computation is an iterative onesimilar to PageRank (Page et al, 1998) computa-tion, however the termination condition is unlikePageRank in that PageRank terminates whenrank values are normalized whereas our approachuses the blog depth as a termination conditionwhich is an adjustable parameter.
Due to thechanged termination condition the role of spamblogs is minimized.The damping factor damp is introduced to mi-nimize biasness as is explained below.
Considerthe two blogs as shown with the link structurerepresented by arrows:In this case let?s assume the TDIR of blog A is2 and the TDIR of blog B is 1.
Using the formu-lation for TDR without the damping factor wewould have 2+(1/1x1)=3 for blog A and1+(1/1x2)=3 for blog B which is not the true ref-lection of their topic discussion ranks.
Howeverwhen we use the damping factor the resultantTDR?s are 2+(1/1x1x0.9)=2.9 for blog A and1+(1/1x2x0.9)=2.8 for blog B and this more cor-rectly represents the topic discussion ranks ofboth the blogs.4 Experimental EvaluationsThis section presents details of our experimentson real blog data.
We use precision and recall tomeasure the effectiveness of our approach ofcluster-finding.
The experimental data is releasedas an XML corpus which can be downloadedfrom:http://unhp.com.pk/blogosphereResearch/data.tar.gz.Figure 3: Example for Damping Factor Explanation594.1 Data and MethodologyThe data used in the experiments was gatheredfrom 102 blog sites which comprised of 50,471blog posts.
Currently we have restricted the dataset to only the blogspot domain (blogger.comservice by Google).We used four blog sites asseeds and from them the link structure of theblogs was extracted after which the crawl (Qure-shi et al, 2010) was performed using the XMLfeeds of the blogs to retrieve all the posts in eachblog.
Each blog had an average of 494 posts.The topics for which we perform the experi-ments of finding TDIR and TDR were taken tobe ?compute?, ?democracy?, ?secularism?,?bioinformatics?, ?haiti?
and ?obama.
?The measures that we use to assess the accura-cy of our method are precision and recall whichare widely used statistical classification measuresfor the Information Retrieval domain.
The twomeasures are calculated using equations 4.1 and4.2:Precision =    |Ct nCa|            (4.1)|Ca|Recall  =      |Ct nCa|              (4.2)|Ct|Here Ca represents the topic cluster set foundusing our algorithm i.e.
the set of blogs that haveinterest in the queried topic, in other words it isthe set of the blogs that have TDIR greater than 1.Ct represents the true topic cluster set meaningthe set of those blogs that not just mention thetopic but are really interested in it.
The reason fordistinguishing between true cluster set Ct andalgorithmic cluster set Ca is that our method justsearches for the given keyword i.e.
topic in allthe posts and since natural language is so richthat just mentioning the topic does not representthe fact that the blog is a part of that topic cluster.Hence we use a human annotator/labeler foridentification of the true cluster set from the setof the 102 blogs for each of the 6 topics that weused in our experiments.4.2 ResultsWe plot the precision and recall graphs for thetopics chosen.
Figure 4 shows the graph for pre-cision:The average precision was found to be 0.87which reflects the accurate relevance of our me-thod.
As can be seen from the graph in figure 4the precision falls below the 0.8 mark only forthe topics compute and secularism ?
the reasonfor this is that for these two topics a higher pro-portion of false positives were discovered.
Notall the posts having the word ?compute?
wereactually related to computing as found by humanannotator.
Same was the case for the word secu-larism ?
since our method searches for adjectivesecular and adverb secularly in case of secular-ism not being found hence there were some blogsin which secular was used but the blog?s focuswas not in secularism as an idea.
On the otherhand precision measures for the topics ?democ-racy?, ?obama?, ?haiti?
and ?bioinformatics?were quite good because these words are likelyto be found in the blogs that actually focus onthem as a topic hence reducing the chances offalse positives.Figure 5 shows the graph for recall:The average recall was found to be 0.971which reflects the high coverage of our method.As the graph in figure 5 shows the recall value isFigure 4: Precision Graph for Chosen TopicsFigure 5: Recall Graph for Chosen Topics60mostly close to 1 for the chosen topics.
This highcoverage is attributed to the part of speech di-mension as discussed in section 3.3; this tech-nique rules out the chances of false negatives andhence we obtain a high recall for our method.4.3 Additional ExperimentsIn addition to experiments on the six coarse-grained topics mentioned above we performedsome additional experiments on two fine-grainedtopics and also repeated the experiment per-formed on topic ?Obama?
with an additionalterm ?Democrats.?
On formulating the clusterwith these two terms the precision increasedfrom 0.907 to 0.95 which clearly shows that in-corporation of extra linguistic features into theTDIR formulation ensures better results.
Moreo-ver the ranks of some blogs were found to behigher than the ranks obtained previously andthis increase in rank was due to the fact thatmany posts had subject theme ?Obama?
but theyused the term ?Democrats?
?
when we used thisalternate term the ranks i.e.
TDR more correctlyrepresented the role of the blogs in the cluster.The two fine grained topics for which we re-peated our experiments were: healthcare bill andavatar.
Additional terms were also included inthe TDIR and TDR computation process whichwere as follows:healthcare bill ?
obamacareavatar- sky people,  jake sullyThese alternate terms were chosen as these arethe commonly associated terms when these top-ics are discussed.
At this point we provided themas query topics but for future work our plan is touse a machine learning approach for learningthese alternate phrases for each topic, and know-ledge bases such as Wikipedia may also be usedto gather the alternate terms for different topics.The precision for the topic healthcare bill wasfound to be 0.857 which had a negligible effecton excluding ?obamacare?
; however recall suf-fered more on exclusion of alternate term ?ob-amacare?
as it fell from 1 to 0.667.
Results forthe topic ?avatar?
however were quite differentwith a precision of 0.47 and a recall of 1; thiswas due to the large number of false positivesthat were retrieved for the term avatar and wefound reason for this to be that our approach doesnot take into consideration case-sensitivity at thispoint hence it failed to distinguish between theterm ?avatar?
and movie ?Avatar?.
Also in thecase of topic ?avatar?
the alternate phrases didnot have any effect and hence there is a need torefine the approach for fine-grained topics suchas this one ?
we present future directions for re-finement of our approach in section 5.5 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we proposed the concept of ?topicclusters?
to solve the blog categorization task forthe Information Retrieval domain.
The proposedmethod offers a new dimension in blog commu-nity detection and blog ranking by taking intoaccount both link structure and contents of blogposts.
Furthermore the natural languageprocessing techniques we use provide a highercoverage thereby leading to a high average recallvalue of 0.971 in the experiments we performed.At the same time we achieved a good accuracy aswas reflected by an average precision of 0.87.For future work we aim to combine our pro-posed solution into a framework for auto genera-tion of useful content on a variety of topics suchas ?blogopedia?
; the content can be obtained au-tomatically from the blog posts and in this waymanual effort may be saved.
We also plan to re-fine our approach by taking into account thetemporal aspects of blog posts such as time in-terval between blog posts, start post date andtime, end post data and time into our formulationfor ?Topic Discussion Isolation Rank?
and ?Top-ic Discussion Rank?.
Moreover as future direc-tions of this work we plan to incorporate a ma-chine learning framework for the assignment ofthe weights corresponding to each topic and forthe additional phrases to use for each of the top-ics that we wish to cluster.61ReferencesAgarwal, Nitin, Huan Liu, Lei Tang, and Philip S. Yu,2008.
Identifying the influential bloggers in acommunity.
In Proceedings of the internationalConference on Web Search and Web Data Mining(Palo Alto, California, USA, February 11 - 12,2008).
WSDM '08.
ACM.Anderson, Paul, 2007.
What is Web 2.0?
Ideas, tech-nologies and implications for education.
Technicalreport, JISC.Chi, Yun, Shenghuo Zhu, Xiaodan Song, Junichi Ta-temura, and Belle L. Tseng,  2007.
Structural andtemporal analysis of the blogosphere throughcommunity factorization.
In Proceedings of the13th ACM SIGKDD international Conference onKnowledge Discovery and Data Mining (San Jose,California, USA, August 12 - 15, 2007).
KDD '07.ACM.Fujimura,Ko, Takafumi Inoue, and Masayuki Sugiza-ki, 2005.
The EigenRumor Algorithm for RankingBlogs.
In Proceedings of the WWW 2005 Work-shop on the Weblogging Ecosystem: Aggregation,Analysis and Dynamics.Gruhl, Daniel, R. Guha, David Liben-Nowell, andAndrew Tomkins, 2004.
Information diffusionthrough blogspace.
In Proceedings of the 13th in-ternational Conference on World Wide Web (NewYork, NY, USA, May 17 - 20, 2004).
WWW '04.ACM.Hassan, Ahmed, Dragomir Radev, Junghoo Cho andAmruta Joshi, 2009.
Content Based Recommenda-tion and Summarization in the Blogosphere.
ThirdInternational AAAI Conference on Weblogs andSocial Media, AAAI Publications.Honeycutt, Courtenay, and Susan C. Herring, 2009.Beyond microblogging: Conversation and collabo-ration via Twitter.
In Proceedings Hawaii Interna-tional Conference on System Sciences, IEEE PressKumar, Ravi, Jasmine Novak, Prabhakar Raghavan,and Andrew Tomkins, 2003.
On the bursty evolu-tion of blogspace.
In Proceedings of the 12th inter-national Conference on World Wide Web (Budap-est, Hungary, May 20 - 24, 2003).
WWW '03.ACM.Leskovec, Jure, Andreas Krause, Carlos Guestrin,Christos Faloutsos, Jeanne Van-Briesen, and Nata-lie  Glance, 2007.
Costeffective outbreak detectionin networks.
In The 13th International Conferenceon Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD)2007.
ACM.Li, Hui,  Sourav S. Bhowmick,  and Aixin Sun, 2009.Blog cascade affinity: analysis and prediction.
InProceeding of the 18th ACM Conference on infor-mation and Knowledge Management (Hong Kong,China, November 02 - 06, 2009).
CIKM '09.
ACM.Mishne, G. and Maarten de Rijke, 2006.
A Study ofBlog Search.
In Proceedings of ECIR-2006.
LNCSvol 3936.
Springer.Nakajima,Shinsuke, Junichi Tatemura, YoichiroaraHino, Yoshinori Hara and Katsumi Tanaka, 2005.Discovering Important Bloggers based on Analyz-ing Blog Threads.
In Proceedings of the 14th inter-national Conference on World Wide Web (Chiba,Japan, May 10 - 14, 2005).
WWW '05.
ACM.O'Reilly, Tim, 2005.
What is Web 2.0: Design Pat-terns and Business Models for the next generationof software.Page, Larry, Sergey Brin, Rajeev Motwani and TerryWinograd, 1999.
The PageRank citation ranking:Bringing order to the Web, Technical Report, Stan-ford University.Qureshi, M. Atif, Arjumand Younus and FranciscoRojas, 2010.
Analyzing Web Crawler as Feed For-ward Engine for Efficient Solution to Search Prob-lem in the Minimum Amount of Time through aDistributed Framework.
In Proceedings of 1stIn-ternational Conference on Information Science andApplications, IEEE Publications.Sifry, David, 2009 Sifry?s Alerts.http://www.sifry.com/alerts/Sorapure, Madeleine.
2003.
Screening moments,scrolling lives: Diary writing on the web.
Biogra-phy: An Interdisciplinary Quarterly, 26(1), 1-23.62
