Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, pages 64?71,Beijing, China, 21-22 August 2010. c?2010 Asian Federation for Natural Language ProcessingConstructing Thai Opinion Mining Resource:A Case Study on Hotel ReviewsChoochart Haruechaiyasak, Alisa Kongthon,Pornpimon Palingoon and Chatchawal SangkeettrakarnHuman Language Technology Laboratory (HLT)National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC)choochart.har@nectec.or.th, alisa.kon@nectec.or.th,pornpimon.pal@nectec.or.th, chatchawal.san@nectec.or.thAbstractOpinion mining and sentiment analy-sis has recently gained increasing atten-tion among the NLP community.
Opin-ion mining is considered a domain-dependent task.
Constructing lexiconsfor different domains is labor intensive.In this paper, we propose a frameworkfor constructing Thai language resourcefor feature-based opinion mining.
Thefeature-based opinion mining essentiallyrelies on the use of two main lexicons,features and polar words.
Our approachfor extracting features and polar wordsfrom opinionated texts is based on syn-tactic pattern analysis.
The evaluationis performed with a case study on ho-tel reviews.
The proposed method hasshown to be very effective in most cases.However, in some cases, the extractionis not quite straightforward.
The rea-sons are due to, firstly, the use of conver-sational language in written opinionatedtexts and, secondly, the language seman-tic.
We provide discussion with possiblesolutions on pattern extraction for someof the challenging cases.1 IntroductionWith the popularity of Web 2.0 or social net-working websites, the amount of user-generatedcontents has increased exponentially.
One in-teresting type of these user-generated contentsis texts which are written with some opinionsand/or sentiments.
An in-depth analysis of theseopinionated texts could reveal potentially use-ful information regarding the preferences of peo-ple towards many different topics including newsevents, social issues and commercial products.Opinion mining and sentiment analysis is suchtask for analyzing and summarizing what peoplethink about a certain topic.Due to its potential and useful applications,opinion mining has gained a lot of interest in textmining and NLP communities (Ding et al, 2008;Jin et al, 2009).
Much work in this area focusedon evaluating reviews as being positive or nega-tive either at the document level (Turney, 2002;Pang et al, 2002; Dave et al, 2003; Beinekeet al, 2004) or sentence level (Kim and Hovy,2004; Wiebe and Riloff, 2005; Wilson et al,2009; Yu and Hatzivassiloglou, 2003).
For in-stance, given some reviews of a product, the sys-tem classifies them into positive or negative re-views.
No specific details or features are identi-fied about what customers like or dislike.
To ob-tain such details, a feature-based opinion miningapproach has been proposed (Hu and Liu, 2004;Popescu and Etzioni, 2005).
This approach typi-cally consists of two following steps.1.
Identifying and extracting features of an ob-ject, topic or event from each sentence uponwhich the reviewers expressed their opin-ion.2.
Determining whether the opinions regard-ing the features are positive or negative.The feature-based opinion mining could pro-vide users with some insightful information re-lated to opinions on a particular topic.
For exam-ple, for hotel reviews, the feature-based opinion64mining allows users to view positive or negativeopinions on hotel-related features such as price,service, breakfast, room, facilities and activities.Breaking down opinions into feature level is veryessential for decision making.
Different cus-tomers could have different preferences when se-lecting hotels to stay for vacation.
For example,some might prefer hotels which provide full fa-cilities, however, some might prefer to have goodroom service.The main drawback of the feature-based opin-ion mining is the preparation of different lex-icons including features and polar words.
Tomake things worse, these lexicons, especially thefeatures, are domain-dependent.
For a partic-ular domain, a set of features and polar wordsmust be prepared.
The process for languageresource construction is generally labor inten-sive and time consuming.
Some previous workshave proposed different approaches for automat-ically constructing the lexicons for the feature-based opinion mining (Qiu et al, 2009; Riloffand Wiebe, 2003; Sarmento et al, 2009).
Mostapproaches applied some machine learning al-gorithms for learning the rules from the corpus.The rules are used for extracting new featuresand polar words from untagged corpus.
Reviewsof different approaches are given in the relatedwork section.In this paper, we propose a framework forconstructing Thai language resource for thefeature-based opinion mining.
Our approachis based on syntactic pattern analysis of twolexicon types: domain-dependent and domain-independent.
The domain-dependent lexiconsinclude features, sub-features and polar words.The domain-independent lexicons are particles,negative words, degree words, auxiliary verbs,prepositions and stop words.
Using these lexi-cons, we could construct a set of syntactic rulesbased on the frequently occurred patterns.
Therule set can be used for extracting more unseensub-features and polar words from untagged cor-pus.We evaluated the proposed framework on thedomain of hotel reviews.
The experimental re-sults showed that our proposed method is veryeffective in most cases, especially for extractingpolar words.
However, in some cases, the extrac-tion is not quite straightforward due to the use ofconversational language, idioms and hidden se-mantic.
We provide some discussion on the chal-lenging cases and suggest some solutions as thefuture work.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
In next section, we review some relatedworks on different approaches for constructinglanguage resources for opinion mining and sen-timent analysis.
In Section 3, we present the pro-posed framework for constructing Thai opinionmining resource by using the dual pattern extrac-tion method.
In Section 4, we apply the proposedframework with a case study of hotel reviews.The performance evaluation is given with the ex-periment results.
Some difficult cases are dis-cussed along with some possible solutions.
Sec-tion 5 concludes the paper with the future work.2 Related workThe problem of developing subjectivity lexiconsfor training and testing sentiment classifiers hasrecently attracted some attention.
The Multi-perspective Question Answering (MPQA) opin-ion corpus is a well-known resource for senti-ment analysis in English (Wiebe et al, 2005).It is a collection of news articles from a vari-ety of news sources manually annotated at wordand phrase levels for opinions and other privatestates (i.e., beliefs, emotions, sentiments, spec-ulations, etc.).
The annotation in this work alsotook into account the context, which is essentialfor resolving possible ambiguities and accuratelydetermining polarity.Although most of the reference corpora hasbeen focused on English language, work on otherlanguages is growing as well.
Kanayama etal.
(2006) proposed an unsupervised method todetect sentiment words in Japanese.
In this work,they used clause level context coherency to iden-tify candidate sentiment words from sentencesthat appear successively with sentences contain-ing seed sentiment words.
Their assumption isthat unless the context is changed with adver-sative expressions, sentences appearing together65in that context tend to have the same polari-ties.
Hence, if one of them contains sentimentswords, the other successive sentences are likelyto contain sentiment words as well.
Ku andChen (2007) proposed the bag-of-characters ap-proach to determine sentiment words in Chinese.This approach calculates the observation proba-bilities of characters from a set of seed sentimentwords first, then dynamically expands the set andadjusts their probabilities.
Later in 2009, Kuet al (2009), extended their bag-of-charactersapproach by including morphological structuresand syntactic structures between sentence seg-ment.
Their experiments showed better perfor-mance of word polarity detection and opinionsentence extraction.Some other methods to automatically gener-ate resources for subjectivity analysis for a for-eign language have leveraged the resources andtools available for English.
For example, Be-nea et al (2008) applied machine translation andstandard Naive Bayes and SVM for subjectiv-ity classification for Romanian.
Their exper-iments showed promising results for applyingautomatic translation to construct resources andtools for opinion mining in a foreign language.Wan (2009) also leveraged an available Englishcorpus for Chinese sentiment classification byusing the co-training approach to make full useof both English and Chinese features in a uni-fied framework.
Jijkoun and Hofmann (2009)also described a method for creating a Dutchsubjectivity lexicon based on an English lexi-con.
They applied a PageRank-like algorithmthat bootstraps a subjectivity lexicon from thetranslation of the English lexicon and rank thewords in the thesaurus by polarity using the net-work of lexical relations (e.g., synonymy, hy-ponymy) in Wordnet.3 The proposed frameworkThe performance of the feature-based opinionmining relies on the design and completenessof related lexicons.
Our lexicon design dis-tinguishes lexicons into two types, domain-dependent and domain-independent.
The designof domain-dependent lexicons is based on thefeature-based opinion mining framework pro-posed by Liu et al (2005).
The framework startsby setting the domain scope such as digital cam-era.
The next step is to design a set of featuresassociated with the given domain.
For the do-main of digital camera, features could be, for in-stance, ?price?, ?screen size?
and ?picture qual-ity?.
Features could contain sub-features.
Forexample, the picture quality could have the sub-features as ?macro mode?, ?portrait mode?
and?night mode?.
Preparing multiple feature levelscould be time-consuming, therefore, we limit thefeatures into two levels: main features and sub-features.Another domain-dependent lexicon is po-lar words.
Polar words are sentiment wordswhich represent either positive or negative viewson features.
Although some polar words aredomain-independent and have explicit meaningssuch as ?excellent?, ?beautiful?, ?expensive?and ?terrible?.
Some polar words are domain-dependent and have implicit meanings depend-ing on the contexts.
For example, the word?large?
is generally considered positive for thescreen size feature of digital camera domain.However, for the dimension feature of mobilephone domain, the word ?large?
could be con-sidered as negative.On the other hand, the domain-independentlexicons are regular words which provide differ-ent parts of speech (POS) and functions in thesentence.
For opinion mining task, we designsix different domain-independent lexicons as fol-lows (some examples are shown in Table 1).?
Particles (PAR): In Thai language, thesewords refer to the sentence endings whichare normally used to add politeness of thespeakers (Cooke, 1992).?
Negative words (NEG): Like English,these words are used to invert the opinionpolarity.
Examples are ?not?, ?unlikely?and ?never?.?
Degree words (DEG): These words areused as an intensifier to the polar words.Examples are ?large?, ?very?, ?enormous?.66?
Auxiliary verbs (AUX): These words areused to modify verbs.
Examples are?should?, ?must?
and ?then?.?
Prepositions (PRE): Like English, Thaiprepositions are used to mark the relationsbetween two words.?
Stop words (STO): These words are usedfor grammaticalization.
Thai language isconsidered an isolating language, to form anoun the words ?karn?
and ?kwam?
are nor-mally placed in front of a verb or a noun,respectively.
Therefore, these words couldbe neglected when analyzing opinionatedtexts.Table 1: Domain-independent lexiconsAlthough some of the above lexicons are sim-ilar to English, however, some words are placedin different position in a sentence.
For example,in Thai, a degree word is usually placed after apolar word.
For example, ?very good?
would bewritten as ?good very?
in Thai.Figure 1 shows all processes and work flowunder the proposed framework.
The processstarts with a corpus which is tagged based ontwo lexicon types.
From the tagged corpus,we construct patterns and lexicons.
The pat-tern construction is performed by collecting textsegments which contain both features and polarwords.
All patterns are sorted by the frequencyof occurrence.
The lexicon construction is per-formed by simply collecting words which are al-ready tagged with the lexicon types.
The lex-icons are used for performing the feature-basedopinion mining task such as classifying and sum-marizing the reviews as positive and negativebased on different features.
The completeness oflexicons is very important for the feature-basedopinion mining.
To collect more lexicons, pat-terns are used in the dual pattern extraction pro-cess to extract more features and polar wordsfrom the untagged corpus.Figure 1: The proposed opinion resource con-struction framework based on the dual patternextraction.4 A case study of hotel reviewsTo evaluate the proposed framework, we per-form some experiments with a case study ofhotel reviews.
In Thailand, tourism is rankedas one of the top industries.
From the statis-tics provided by the Office of Tourism Develop-ment1, the number of international tourists vis-iting Thailand in 2009 is approximately 14 mil-1The Office of Tourism Development,http://www.tourism.go.th67lions.
The number of registered hotels in all re-gions of Thailand is approximately 5,000.
Pro-viding an opinion mining system on hotel re-views could be very useful for tourists to makedecision on hotel choice when planning a trip.4.1 Corpus preparationWe collected customer reviews from the Agodawebsite2.
The total number of reviews in the cor-pus is 8,436.
Each review contains the name ofthe hotel as the title and comments in free-formtext format.
We designed a set of 13 main fea-tures: service, cleanliness, hotel condition, loca-tion, food, breakfast, room, facilities, price, com-fort, quality, activities and security.
The set ofmain features is designed based on the featuresobtained from the Agoda website.
Some addi-tional features, such as activities and security, areadded to provide users with more dimensions.In this paper, we focus on two main fea-tures: breakfast and service.
Table 2 shows thedomain-dependent lexicons related to the break-fast feature.
For breakfast main feature (FEA),we include all synonyms which could be used todescribe breakfast in Thai.
These include En-glish terms with their synonyms, transliteratedterms and abbreviations.The breakfast sub-features (FEA*) are spe-cific concepts of breakfast.
Examples include?menu?, ?taste?, ?service?
and ?coffee?.
It canbe observed that some of the sub-features couldalso act as a main feature.
For example, thesub-feature ?service?
of breakfast is also usedas the main feature ?service?.
Providing sub-feature level could help revealing more insight-ful dimension for the users.
However, designingmultiple feature levels could be time-consuming,therefore, we limit the features into two levels,i.e., main feature and sub-feature.
The polarwords (POL) are also shown in the table.
Wedenote the positive and negative polar words byplacing [+] and [-] after each word.
It can beobserved that some polar words are dependenton sub-features.
For example, the polar word?long line?
can only be used for the sub-feature?restaurant?.2Agoda website: http://www.agoda.comTable 2: Domain-dependent lexicons for thebreakfast feature.Table 3 shows the domain-dependent lexiconsrelated to the service feature.
The main fea-tures include synonyms, transliterated and En-glish terms which describe the concept service.The service sub-features are, for example, ?re-ception?, ?security guard?, ?maid?, ?waiter?
and?concierge?.
Unlike the breakfast feature, thepolar words for the service feature are quite gen-eral and could mostly be applied for all sub-features.
Another observation is that some of thepolar words are based on Thai idiom.
For ex-ample, the phrase ?having rigid hands?
in Thaimeans ?impolite?.
In Thai culture, people showpoliteness by doing the ?wai?
gesture.4.2 Experiments and resultsUsing the tagged corpus and the extracted lexi-cons, we construct the most frequently occurredpatterns.
For two main features, breakfast andservice, the numbers of tagged reviews for eachfeature are 301 and 831, respectively.
We ran-domly split the corpus into 80% as training setand 20% as test set.
We only consider the pat-terns which contain both features (either mainfeatures or sub-features) and polar words.
Forthe breakfast feature, the total number of ex-tracted patterns is 86.
For the service feature, thetotal number of extracted patterns is 192.
Table4 and 5 show some examples of most frequently68Table 3: Domain-dependent lexicons for the ser-vice feature.occurred patterns extracted from the corpus.
Thesymbols of the tag set are as shown in Table 1and 2 with the tag <OTH> denoting any otherwords.From the tables, two patterns which occur fre-quently for both features are <FEA><POL>and <FEA*><POL>.
These two patterns arevery simple and show that the opinionated textsin Thai are mostly very simple.
Users just simplywrite a word describing the feature followed bya polar word (either positive or negative) with-out using any verb in between.
Some examplesfor the pattern <FEA*><POL> are <coffeecup><dirty> and <employee><friendly>.
InEnglish, a verb ?to be?
(is/am/are) is usually re-quired between <FEA*> and <POL>.Using the extracted patterns, we perform thedual pattern extraction process to collect thesub-features and polar words from the test dataset.
Table 6 shows the evaluation results ofsub-features and polar words extraction for bothbreakfast and service features.
It can be observedthat the set of patterns could extract polar words(POL) with higher accuracy than sub-features(FEA*).
This could be due to the patterns used toTable 4: Top-ranked breakfast patterns with ex-amplesdescribe the polar words are straightforward andnot complicated.
This is especially true for thecase of breakfast feature in which the accuracyis approximately 95%.Table 5: Top-ranked service patterns with exam-ples4.3 DiscussionTable 7 and 8 show some examples of challeng-ing cases for breakfast and service features, re-spectively.
The polar words shown in both tablesare very difficult to extract since the patterns can69Feature Accuracy (%)FEA* POLBreakfast 80.00 95.74Service 82.56 89.29Table 6: Evaluation results of features and polarwords extraction.not be easily captured.
The difficulties are due tomany reasons including the language semanticand the need of world knowledge.
For example,in case #5 of service feature, the whole phrasecan be interpreted as ?attentive?.
It is difficultfor the system to generate the pattern based onthis phrase.
Another example is case #4 of bothtables, the customers express their opinions bycomparing to other hotels.
To analyze the senti-ment correctly would require the knowledge of aparticular hotel or hotels in specific locations.Table 7: Examples of difficult cases of breakfastfeature5 Conclusion and future workWe proposed a framework for constructing Thaiopinion mining resource with a case study onhotel reviews.
Two sets of lexicons, domain-dependent and domain-independent, are de-signed to support the pattern extraction process.The proposed method first constructs a set of pat-terns from a tagged corpus.
The extracted pat-terns are then used to automatically extract andcollect more sub-features and polars words froman untagged corpus.
The performance evaluationTable 8: Examples of difficult cases of servicefeaturewas done with a collection of hotel reviews ob-tained from a hotel reservation website.
Fromthe experimental results, polar words could beextracted more easily than sub-features.
Thisis due to the polar words often appear in spe-cific positions with repeated contexts in the opin-ionated texts.
In some cases, extraction of sub-features and polar words are not straightforwarddue to the difficulties in generalizing patterns.For example, some subjectivity requires com-plete phrases to describe the polarity.
In somecases, the sub-features are not explicitly shownin the sentence.
For future work, we plan to com-plete the construction of the corpus by consider-ing the rest of main features.
Another plan is toinclude the semantic analysis into the pattern ex-traction process.
For example, the phrase ?forgetsomething?
could imply negative polarity for theservice feature.ReferencesBanea, Carmen, Rada Mihalcea, Janyce Wiebe, andSamer Hassan.
2008.
Multilingual subjectivityanalysis using machine translation.
Proc.
of the2008 empirical methods in natural language pro-cessing, 127?135.Beineke, Philip, Trevor Hastie and ShivakumarVaithyanathan.
2004.
The sentimental factor: im-proving review classification via human-providedinformation.
Proc.
of the 42nd Annual Meeting onAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 263?270.70Cooke, J.R. 1992.
Thai sentence particles: puttingthe puzzle together.
Proc.
of the The Third Inter-national Symposium on Language and Linguistics,1105?1119.Dave, Kushal, Steve Lawrence and David M. Pen-nock.
2003.
Mining the peanut gallery: opinionextraction and semantic classification of productreviews.
Proc.
of the 12th international confer-ence on World Wide Web, 519?528.Ding, Xiaowen, Bing Liu and Philip S. Yu.
2008.
Aholistic lexicon-based approach to opinion mining.Proc.
of the int.
conf.
on web search and web datamining, 231?240.Hu, Minqing and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining and sum-marizing customer reviews.
Proc.
of the 10th ACMSIGKDD international conference on Knowledgediscovery and data mining, 168?177.Jin, Wei, Hung Hay Ho and Rohini K. Srihari.
2009.OpinionMiner: a novel machine learning systemfor web opinion mining and extraction.
Proc.
ofthe 15th ACM SIGKDD, 1195?1204.Kim, Soo-Min and Eduard Hovy.
2004.
Determiningthe sentiment of opinions.
Proc.
of the 20th inter-national conference on Computational Linguistics,1367?1373.Qiu, Guang, Bing Liu, Jiajun Bu, and Chun Chen.2009.
Expanding domain sentiment lexiconthrough double propagation.
Proc.
of the 21st In-ternational Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelli-gence, 1199?1204.Jijkoun, Valentin and Katja Hofmann.
2009.
Gener-ating a non-English subjectivity lexicon: relationsthat matter.
Proc.
of the 12th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, 398?405.Kanayama, Hiroshi and Tetsuya Nasukawa.
2006.Fully automatic lexicon expansion for domain-oriented sentiment analysis.
Proc.
of the 2006Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, 355?363.Ku, Lun-Wei and Hsin-Hsi Chen.
2007 Mining opin-ions from the Web: Beyond relevance retrieval.Journal of American Society for Information Sci-ence and Technology, 58(12):1838?1850.Ku, Lun-Wei, Ting-Hao Huang and Hsin-Hsi Chen.2009.
Using morphological and syntactic struc-tures for Chinese opinion analysis.
Proc.
of the2009 empirical methods in natural language pro-cessing, 1260?1269.Liu, Bing, Minqing Hu and Junsheng Cheng.
2005.Opinion observer: analyzing and comparing opin-ions on the Web.
Proc.
of the 14th World WideWeb, 342?351.Pang, Bo, Lillian Lee and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan.2002.
Thumbs up?
: sentiment classification usingmachine learning techniques.
Proc.
of the ACL-02 conf.
on empirical methods in natural languageprocessing, 79?86.Popescu, Ana-Maria and Oren Etzioni.
2005.
Ex-tracting product features and opinions from re-views.
Proc.
of the conf.
on human language tech-nology and empirical methods in natural languageprocessing, 339?346.Riloff, Ellen and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Learning ex-traction patterns for subjective expressions.
Proc.of the 2003 conference on empirical methods innatural language processing, 105?112.Sarmento, Lu?
?s, Paula Carvalho, Ma?rio J. Silva, andEuge?nio de Oliveira.
2009.
Automatic creationof a reference corpus for political opinion min-ing in user-generated content.
Proc.
of the 1stCIKM workshop on topic-sentiment analysis formass opinion, 29?36.Turney, Peter D. 2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?
:semantic orientation applied to unsupervised clas-sification of reviews.
Proc.
of the 40th ACL, 417?424.Wan, Xiaojun.
2009.
Co-training for cross-lingualsentiment classification.
Proc.
of the joint conf.
ofACL and IJCNLP, 235?243.Wiebe, Janyce and Ellen Riloff.
2005.
Creatingsubjective and objective sentence classifiers fromunannotated texts.
Proc.
of Conference on Intelli-gent Text Processing and Computational Linguis-tics, 486?497.Wiebe, Janyce, Theresa Wilson and Claire Cardie.2005.
Annotating expressions of opinions andemotions in language.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 39(2-3):165?210.Wilson, Theresa, Janyce Wiebe and Paul Hoffmann.2009.
Recognizing contextual polarity: An explo-ration of features for phrase-level sentiment analy-sis.
Comput.
Linguist., 35(3):399?433.Yu, Hong and Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou.
2003.
To-wards answering opinion questions: separatingfacts from opinions and identifying the polarity ofopinion sentences.
Proc.
of the Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,129?136.71
