Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Computational Linguistics in a World of Social Media, pages 3?4,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Analysis of Verbs in Financial News Articles and their Impact onStock PriceRobert P. SchumakerIona College715 North AveNew Rochelle, NY 10801, USArob.schumaker@gmail.comAbstractArticle terms can move stock prices.
By ana-lyzing verbs in financial news articles andcoupling their usage with a discrete machinelearning algorithm tied to stock price move-ment, we can build a model of price move-ment based upon the verbs used, to not onlyidentify those terms that can move a stockprice the most, but also whether they move thepredicted price up or down.1 IntroductionPredicting market movements is a difficult prob-lem that deals mostly with trying to model humanbehavior.
However, with the advent of quantita-tive trading systems its now easier to dissect theirtrading decisions.
These systems are nearly instan-taneous in their ability to make trades, but theirAchilles heel is a reliance on human counterpartsto translate relevant news into numeric data.
Thisintroduces a serious lag-time in trading decisions.2 Literature ReviewInformation is fed into the market al the time.While some information sources can move a stockprice, e.g., rumors and scandals; financial newsarticles are considered more stable and a form ofits own commodity (Mowshowitz, 1992).The first challenge of a textual financial predic-tion system is to manage the large amounts of tex-tual information that exist for securities such asperiodic SEC filings, press releases and financialnews articles.
These textual documents can thenbe parsed using Natural Language Processing(NLP) techniques to identify specific article termsmost likely to cause share price changes.
By au-tomating this process, machines can take advan-tage of arbitrage opportunities faster than humancounterparts by repeatedly forecasting price fluctu-ations and executing immediate trades.Once financial news articles have been gathered,we need to represent their important features inmachine-friendly form.
We chose to implement averb representation scheme which was found to bemost predictive for financial news articles.Assigning a representational mechanism is notsufficient to address scalability issues associatedwith large datasets.
A common solution is to in-troduce a term frequency threshold (Joachims,1998).
This technique not only eliminates noisefrom lesser used terms, but also reduces the num-ber of features to represent.
Once scalability issueshave been addressed, the data needs to be preparedin a more machine-friendly manner.
One popularmethod is to represent article terms in binary wherethe term is either present or not in a given article.This solution leads to large but sparse matriceswhere the number of represented terms throughoutthe dataset will greatly outnumber the terms usedin an individual article.Once financial news articles have beenrepresented, learning algorithms can then begin toidentify patterns of predictable behavior.
One ac-3cepted method, Support Vector Regression (SVR),is a regression equivalent of Support Vector Ma-chines (SVM) but without the aspect of classifica-tion.
This method is also well-suited to handlingtextual input as binary representations and hasbeen used in similar financial news studies (Schu-maker & Chen, 2006; Tay & Cao, 2001).3 System DesignTo analyze our data, we constructed the AZFin-Text system.
The numeric component gathersprice data in one minute increments from a stockprice database.
The textual piece gathers financialnews articles from Yahoo!
Finance and representsthem by their verbs.For the machine learning algorithm we chose toimplement the SVR Sequential Minimal Optimiza-tion function through Weka.
This function allowsdiscrete numeric prediction instead of classifica-tion.
We selected a linear kernel and ten-foldcross-validation.4 Experimental DesignFor the experiment, we selected a consecutive fiveweek period of time to serve as our experimentalbaseline.
This period of research from Oct. 26,2005 to Nov. 28, 2005 was selected because it didnot have unusual market conditions and was agood testbed for our evaluation.
We further li-mited our scope of activity to only those compa-nies listed in the S&P 500 as of Oct. 3, 2005.Articles gathered during this period were restrictedto occur between the hours of 10:30am and3:40pm.
A further constraint to reduce the effectsof confounding variables was introduced wheretwo articles on the same company cannot existwithin twenty minutes of each other or both will bediscarded.
The above processes filtered the 9,211candidate news articles gathered during this periodto 2,802, and 10,259,042 stock quotations.The first task is to extract financial news ar-ticles.
The entire corpus of financial news articlesare represented by their verbs in binary.
If a par-ticular verb is present in the article, that feature isgiven a 1, else a 0 and then stored in the database.To build a model, we first pair together the repre-sentational verb and stock quotation at the time thearticle was released, for each financial news ar-ticle.
This data is then passed to the SVR algo-rithm where a multi-dimensional price predictionmodel is constructed.
This weighted model canthen be dissected to determine the most relevantfactors that can influence price movement.5 Results and DiscussionFrom the trained AZFinText system, it was unsur-prising that a majority of weight was placed on thestock price at the time the article was released andis consistent with prior observation where the ar-ticle terms were found to be important and wereused to fine-tune price prediction.
Of the verbs,211 were used by the system as support vectors.An abbreviated multi-dimensional price predictionmodel is as follows.
The constants represent theweight given by the SVR algorithm and the verbsare binary, representing their existence within thefinancial news article.0.9997Intial_Price + 0.0045planted +0.004announcing + 0.003front +0.0029smaller + 0.0028crude ?
0.0029hereto ?0.002comparable ?
0.0018charge ?0.0015summit ?
0.0015greenThe five verbs with highest negative impact onstock price are hereto, comparable, charge, summitand green.
If the verb hereto were to appear in afinancial article, AZFinText would discount theprice by $0.0029.
While this movement may notappear to be much, the continued usage of negativeverbs is additive.The five verbs with the highest positive impacton stock prices are planted, announcing, front,smaller and crude.ReferencesJoachims, T. 1998.
Text Categorization with SupportVector Machines: Learning with Many Relevant Fea-tures.
European Conference on Machine Learning,Chemnitz, Germany.Mowshowitz, A.
1992.
On the Market Value of Infor-mation Commodities.
The Nature of Information andInformation Commodities.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science 43(3): 225-232.Schumaker, R. P. & H. Chen 2006.
Textual Analysis ofStock Market Prediction Using Financial News Ar-ticles.
Americas Conference on Information Systems,Acapulco, Mexico.Tay, F. & L. Cao 2001.
Application of Support VectorMachines in Financial Time Series Forecasting.Omega 29: 309-317.4
