Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 147?151,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsChunking German: An Unsolved ProblemSandra Ku?blerIndiana UniversityBloomington, IN, USAskuebler@indiana.eduKathrin Beck, Erhard Hinrichs, Heike TelljohannUniversita?t Tu?bingenTu?bingen, Germany{kbeck,eh,telljohann}@sfs.uni-tuebingen.deAbstractThis paper describes a CoNLL-stylechunk representation for the Tu?bingenTreebank of Written German, which as-sumes a flat chunk structure so that eachword belongs to at most one chunk.
ForGerman, such a chunk definition causesproblems in cases of complex prenominalmodification.
We introduce a flat annota-tion that can handle these structures via astranded noun chunk.1 IntroductionThe purpose of this paper is to investigate how theannotation of noun phrases in the Tu?bingen Tree-bank of Written German (Tu?Ba-D/Z) can be trans-formed into chunks with no internal structure, asproposed in the CoNLL 2000 shared task (TjongKim Sang and Buchholz, 2000).
Chunk parsing isa form of partial parsing, in which non-recursivephrases are annotated while difficult decisions,such as prepositional phrase attachment, are leftunsolved.
Flat chunk representations are particu-larly suitable for machine learning approaches topartial parsing and are inspired by the IOB ap-proach to NP chunking first proposed by Ramshawand Marcus (1995).
They are particularly relevantfor approaches that require an efficient analysis butnot necessarily a complete syntactic analysis.German allows a higher degree of syntacticcomplexity in prenominal modification of the syn-tactic head of an NP compared to English.
Thisis particularly evident in written texts annotatedin the Tu?Ba-D/Z.
The complexity of GermanNPs that causes problems in the conversion toCoNLL-style chunks also affects PCFG parsingapproaches to German.The complexity of NPs isone of the phenomena that have been addressed intree transformation approaches for German pars-ing (Trushkina, 2004; Ule, 2007; Versley and Reh-bein, 2009).2 Defining ChunksThe notion of a chunk is orginally due to Abney(1991), who considers chunks as non-recursivephrases which span from the left periphery of aphrase to the phrasal head.
Accordingly, the sen-tence ?The woman in the lab coat thought youhad bought an expensive book.?
is assigned thechunk structure: ?
[S [NP The woman] [PP in [NPthe lab coat] ] [VP thought] ] [S [NP you] [VPhad bought] [NP an [ADJP expensive] book]] .
?.Abney-style chunk parsing is implemented as cas-caded, finite-state transduction (cf.
(Abney, 1996;Karlsson et al, 1995)).Notice that cascaded, finite-state transductionallows for the possibility of chunks containingother chunks as in the above sentence, where theprepositional chunk contains a noun chunk within.The only constraint on such nested chunks is theprohibition on recursive structures.
This rules outchunks in which, for example, a noun chunk con-tains another noun chunk.
A much stricter con-straint on the internal structure of chunks was sub-sequently adopted by the shared task on chunkparsing as part of the Conference for Natural Lan-guage Learning (CoNLL) in the year 2000 (TjongKim Sang and Buchholz, 2000).
In this sharedtask, chunks were defined as non-overlapping,non-recursive phrases so that each word is part ofat most one chunk.
Based on this definition, theprepositional phrase in the sentence above wouldbe chunked as ?
[Prep in] [NP the lab coat]?.
Sincethe prepositional chunk cannot have an embeddednoun chunk, the definition of the CoNLL sharedtask assumed that the prepositional chunk onlycontains the preposition, thus taking the definitionseriously that the chunk ends with the head.
Thenoun chunk remains separate.
Additionally, thenoun phrase ?an expensive book?
is annotated as anoun chunk without internal structure.The CoNLL shared task definition of chunks is147Figure 1: Treebank annotation for the sentence in (2).useful for machine learning based approaches tochunking since it only requires one level of anal-ysis, which can be represented as IOB-chunking(Tjong Kim Sang and Buchholz, 2000).
For En-glish, this definition of chunks has become stan-dard in the literature on machine learning.For German, chunk parsing has been investi-gated by Kermes and Evert (2002) and by Mu?ller(2004).
Both approaches used an Abney-stylechunk definition.
However, there is no corre-sponding flat chunk representation for German be-cause of the complexity of pre-head modificationin German noun phrases.
Sentence (1) provides atypical example of this kind.
(1) [NC derthe[NC seinenhisSohn]sonliebendelovingVater]father?the father who loves his son?The structure in (1) violates both the Abney-style and the CoNLL-style definitions of chunks ?Abney?s because it is recursive and the CoNLL-style definition because of the embedding.
Asingle-level, CoNLL-style chunk analysis willhave to cope with the separation of the determiner?der?
and the head of the outer phrase.
We willdiscuss an analysis in section 5.3 The Treebank: Tu?Ba-D/ZThe Tu?bingen Treebank of Written German(Tu?Ba-D/Z) is a linguistically annotated corpusbased on data of the German newspaper ?dietageszeitung?
(taz).
Currently, it comprises ap-proximately 45 000 sentences.
For the syntacticannotation, a theory-neutral and surface-orientedannotation scheme has been adopted that is in-spired by the notion of topological fields andenriched by a level of predicate-argument struc-ture.
The annotation scheme comprises four lev-els of syntactic annotation: the lexical level, thephrasal level, the level of topological fields, andthe clausal level.
The primary ordering princi-ple of a clause is the inventory of topologicalfields, which characterize the word order regu-larities among different clause types of German,and which are widely accepted among descrip-tive linguists of German (cf.
(Drach, 1937; Ho?hle,1986)).
Below this level of annotation, i.e.
strictlywithin the bounds of topological fields, a phraselevel of predicate-argument structure is appliedwith its own descriptive inventory based on a min-imal set of assumptions that has to be captured byany syntactic theory.
The context-free backbone ofphrase structure (Telljohann et al, 2004) is com-bined with edge labels specifying the grammaticalfunctions and long-distance relations.
For moredetails on the annotation scheme see Telljohann etal.
(2009).
(2) Der Spitzenreiter in der europa?ischenGastgeberliga war bei den bosnischenBu?rgerkriegsflu?chtlingen noch weitausgro?zu?giger.
?The front-runner in the European league of hostcountries was far more generous with the Bosniancivil war refugees.
?Figure 1 shows the tree for the sentence in (2).The main clause (SIMPX) is divided into threetopological fields: initial field (VF), left sentencebracket (LK), and middle field (MF).
The finite148verb in LK is the head (HD) of the sentence.The edge labels between the level of topologicalfields and the phrasal level constitute the gram-matical function of the respective phrase: sub-ject (ON), ambiguous modifier (MOD), and predi-cate (PRED).
The label V-MOD specifies the long-distance dependency of the prepositional phraseon the main verb.
Below the lexical level, the partsof speech are annotated.
The hierarchical annota-tion of constituent structure and head (HD) / non-head (-) labels capture phrase internal dependen-cies.
While premodifiers are attached directly onthe same level, postmodifiers are attached higherin order to keep their modification scope ambigu-ous.
The PP ?in der europa?ischen Gastgeberliga?is the postmodifier of the head-NX and thereforeattached on a higher phrase level.4 General Conversion StrategyThe conversion to CoNLL-style chunks startsfrom the syntactic annotation of the Tu?Ba-D/Z.In general, we directly convert the lowest phrasalprojections with lexical content to chunks.
Forthe sentence in (2) above, the chunk annotation isshown in (3).
Here, the first noun phrase1, ?DerSpitzenreiter?, as well as the finite verb phrase andthe adverbial phrase are used as chunks.
(3) [NX Der Spitzenreiter] [PX inder europa?ischen Gastgeberliga][VXFIN war] [PX bei den bosnischenBu?rgerkriegsflu?chtlingen] [ADVX noch][ADJX weitaus gro?zu?giger].This sentence also shows exceptions to thegeneral conversion rule: We follow TjongKim Sang and Buchholz (2000) in includingADJPs into the NCs, such as in ?den bos-nischen Bu?rgerkriegsflu?chtlingen?.
We also in-clude premodifying adverbs into ADJCs, such asin ?weitaus gro?zu?giger?.
But we deviate fromTjong Kim Sang and Buchholz in our definition ofthe PCs and include the head NP into this chunk,such as in ?in der europa?ischen Gastgeberliga?.
(4) a. Allerdings werden wohl Rational-isierungen mit der Modernisierung1For the sake of convenience, we will use acronyms in theremainder of the paper.
Since we use the same labels in thetreebank annotation and in the chunk representation (mostlyending in X), we will use labels ending in P (e.g.
NP, PP) totalk about phrases in the treebank and labels ending in C (e.g.NC, PC) to talk about chunks.der Beho?rdenarbeit einhergehen.
?However, rationalizations will accompanymodernization in the workflow of civil serviceagencies.?b.
[ADVX Allerdings] [VXFIN wer-den] [ADVX wohl] [NX Rationalis-ierungen] [PX mit der Moder-nisierung] [NX der Beho?rdenarbeit][VXINF einhergehen].In cases of complex, post-modified nounphrases grouped under the prepositional phrase,we include the head noun phrase into the preposi-tional chunk but group the postmodifying phraseinto a separate phrase.
The sentence in (4a)gives an example for such a complex noun phrase.This sentence is assigned the chunk annotation in(4b).
Here, the head NP ?der Modernisierung?
isgrouped in the PC while the post-modifying NP?der Beho?rdenarbeit?
constitutes its own NC.The only lexical constituent in the treebank thatis exempt from becoming a chunk is the namedentity constituent (EN-ADD).
Since these con-stituents do not play a syntactic role in the tree,they are elided in the conversion to chunks.5 Complications in GermanWhile the conversion based on the phrasal anno-tation of Tu?Ba-D/Z results in the expected chunkstructures, it is incapable of handling a small num-ber of cases correctly.
Most of these cases involvecomplex NPs.
We will concentrate here on onecase: complex premodified NPs that include thecomplement of a participle or an adjective, as dis-cussed in section 2.
This is a non-trivial problemsince the treebank contains 1 497 cases in whichan ADJP within an NP contains a PP and 415cases, in which an ADJP within an NP containsanother NP.
Sentence (5a) with the syntactic an-notation in Figure 2 gives an example for such anembedded PP.
(5) a.
Die teilweise in die Erde gebauteSporthalle wird wegen ihrer futuris-tischen Architektur auch als ?Sport-Ei?
bezeichnet.
?The partially underground sports complex isalso called the ?sports egg?
because of its fu-turistic architecture.?b.
[sNX Die] [ADVX teilweise] [PX indie Erde] [NX gebaute Sporthalle][VXFIN wird] [PX wegen ihrer futu-ristischen Architektur] [ADVX auch]149Figure 2: Treebank annotation for the sentence in (5a).
[NX als ?
Sport-Ei] ?
[VXINF be-zeichnet].Since we are interested in a flat chunk annota-tion in which each word belongs to at most onechunk, the Abney-style embedded chunk defini-tion shown in sentence (1) is impossible.
If we de-cide to annotate the PP ?in die Erde?
as a chunk,we are left with two parts of the embedding NP:the determiner ?Die?
and the ADVP ?teilweise?
tothe left of the PP and the ADJP ?gebaute?
and thenoun on the right.
The right part of the NP canbe easily grouped into an NC, and the ADVP canstand on its own.
The only remaining problem isthe treatment of the determiner, which in German,cannot constitute a phrase on its own.
We decidedto create a new type of chunk, stranded NC (sNX),which denotes that this chunk is part of an NC, towhich it is not adjacent.
Thus the sentence in (5a)has the chunk structure shown in (5b).The type of complex NPs shown in the previ-ous section can become arbitrarily complex.
Theexample in (6a) with its syntactic analysis in Fig-ure 3 shows that the attributively used adjective?sammelnden?
can have all its complements andadjuncts.
Here, we have a reflexive pronoun ?sich?and a complex PP ?direkt vor ihrem Sezessions-Standort am Karlsplatz?.
The chunk analysisbased on the principles from section 4 gives us theanalysis in (6b).
The complex PP is represented asthree different chunks: an ADVC, and two PCs.
(6) a. Sie ?thematisierten?
auf Anraten desjetzigen Staatskurators WolfgangZinggl die sich direkt vor ihremSezessions-Standort am Karlsplatzsammelnden Fixer.
?On the advice of the current state curatorWolfgang Zinggl, they ?broach the issue?
ofthe junkies who gather right in front of theirlocation of secession at the Karlsplatz .?b.
[NX Sie] ?
[VXFIN thematisierten]?
[PX auf Anraten] [NX des jet-zigen Staatskurators] [NX WolfgangZinggl] [sNX die] [NX sich] [ADVXdirekt] [PX vor ihrem Sezessions-Standort] [PX am Karlsplatz] [NXsammelnden Fixer].6 ConclusionIn this paper, we have shown how a CoNLL-style chunk representation can be derived fromTu?Ba-D/Z.
For the complications stemming fromcomplex prenominal modification, we proposedan analysis in which the stranded determiner ismarked as such.
For the future, we are planningto make this chunk representation available to li-cense holders of the treebank.ReferencesSteven Abney.
1991.
Parsing by chunks.
In RobertBerwick, Steven Abney, and Caroll Tenney, editors,Principle-Based Parsing, pages 257?278.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Dordrecht.Steven Abney.
1996.
Partial parsing via finite-statecascades.
In John Carroll, editor, ESSLLI Workshopon Robust Parsing, pages 8?15, Prague, Czech Re-public.Erich Drach.
1937.
Grundgedanken der DeutschenSatzlehre.
Diesterweg, Frankfurt/M.150Figure 3: Treebank annotation for the sentence in (6a).Tilman Ho?hle.
1986.
Der Begriff ?Mit-telfeld?, Anmerkungen u?ber die Theorie der topo-logischen Felder.
In Akten des Siebten Interna-tionalen Germanistenkongresses 1985, pages 329?340, Go?ttingen, Germany.Fred Karlsson, Atro Voutilainen, J.
Heikkila?, and AtroAnttila, editors.
1995.
Constraint Grammar: ALanguage-Independent System for Parsing Unre-stricted Text.
Mouton de Gruyter.Hannah Kermes and Stefan Evert.
2002.
YAC ?
arecursive chunker for unrestricted German text.
InProceedings of the Third International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC),Las Palmas, Gran Canaria.Frank H. Mu?ller.
2004.
Annotating grammatical func-tions in German using finite-state cascades.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING 2004, Geneva, Switzerland.Lance A. Ramshaw and Mitchell P. Marcus.
1995.Text chunking using transformation-based learning.In Proceedings of the ACL 3rd Workshop on VeryLarge Corpora, pages 82?94, Cambridge, MA.Heike Telljohann, Erhard Hinrichs, and Sandra Ku?bler.2004.
The Tu?Ba-D/Z treebank: Annotating Germanwith a context-free backbone.
In Proceedings of theFourth International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC), pages 2229?2235,Lisbon, Portugal.Heike Telljohann, Erhard W. Hinrichs, Sandra Ku?bler,Heike Zinsmeister, and Kathrin Beck, 2009.
Style-book for the Tu?bingen Treebank of Written German(Tu?Ba-D/Z).
Seminar fu?r Sprachwissenschaft, Uni-versita?t Tu?bingen, Germany.Erik Tjong Kim Sang and Sabine Buchholz.
2000.
In-troduction to the CoNLL shared task: Chunking.
InProceedings of The Fourth Conference on Computa-tional Language Learning, CoNLL?00, and the Sec-ond Learning Language in Logic Workshop, LLL?00,pages 127?132, Lisbon, Portugal.Julia S. Trushkina.
2004.
Morpho-Syntactic Annota-tion andDependency Parsing of German.
Ph.D. the-sis, Eberhard-Karls Universita?t Tu?bingen.Tylman Ule.
2007.
Treebank Refinement: Opti-mising Representations of Syntactic Analyses forProbabilistic Context-Free Parsing.
Ph.D. thesis,Eberhard-Karls Universita?t Tu?bingen.Yannick Versley and Ines Rehbein.
2009.
Scalable dis-criminative parsing for German.
In Proceedings ofthe International Conference on Parsing Technology(IWPT?09), Paris, France.151
