Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on South and Southeast Asian Natural Language Processing (WSSANLP), pages 26?34,the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING), Beijing, August 2010A Paradigm-Based Finite State Morphological Analyzer for MarathiMugdha BapatHarshada GunePushpak BhattacharyyaDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering,Indian Institute of Technology Bombay{harshadag,mbapat,pb}@cse.iitb.ac.inAbstractA morphological analyzer forms thefoundation for many NLP applications ofIndian Languages.
In this paper, we pro-pose and evaluate the morphologicalanalyzer for Marathi, an inflectional lan-guage.
The morphological analyzer ex-ploits the efficiency and flexibility of-fered by finite state machines in model-ing the morphotactics while using thewell devised system of paradigms tohandle the stem alternations intelligentlyby exploiting the regularity in inflection-al forms.
We plug the morphologicalanalyzer with statistical pos tagger andchunker to see its impact on their per-formance so as to confirm its usability asa foundation for NLP applications.1 Motivation and Problem DefinitionA highly inflectional language has the capabilityof generating hundreds of words from a singleroot.
Hence, morphological analysis is vital forhigh level applications to understand variouswords in the language.
Morphological analyzerforms the foundation for applications like infor-mation retrieval, POS tagging, chunking andultimately the machine translation.
Morphologi-cal analyzers for various languages have beenstudied and developed for years.
But, this re-search is dominated by the morphological ana-lyzers for agglutinative languages or for the lan-guages like English that show low degree of in-flection.
Though agglutinative languages showhigh morpheme per word ratio and have com-plex morphotactic structures, the absence of fu-sion at morpheme boundaries makes the task ofsegmentation fluent once the model for imple-mentation of morphotactics is ready.
On thisbackground, a morphological analyzer for highlyinflectional language like Marathi which has thetendency to overlay the morphemes in a way thataggravates the task of segmentation presents aninteresting case study.Eryi?it and Adal?
(2004) propose a suf-fix stripping approach for Turkish.
The rulebased and agglutinative nature of Turkish allowsthe language to be modeled using FSMs anddoes not need a lexicon.
The morphological ana-lyzer does not face the problem of the changestaking place at morpheme boundaries which isnot the case with inflectional languages.
Hence,although apprehensible this model is not suffi-cient for handling the morphology of Marathi.Many morphological analyzers havebeen developed using the two-level morphologi-cal model (Koskenniemi, 1983) formorphological analysis.
(Oflazer, 1993; Kim etal., 1994) have been developed using PC-Kimmo (Antworth, 1991), a morphologicalparser based on the two-level model.
Concep-tually, the model segments the word in its con-stituent parts, and accounts for phonological andorthographical changes within a word.
While,the model proves to be very useful for develop-ing the morphological analyzers for agglutina-tive languages or the languages with very lessdegree of inflection, it fails to explicitly capturethe regularities within and between paradigmspresent in the inflectional languages.
Marathihas a well defined paradigm-based system ofinflection.
Hence, we decided to develop ourown model which works on the similar lines ofPC-Kimmo (Antworth, 1991) but exploits the26usefulness of paradigm-based inflectional sys-tem.Bharati et al (2004) propose a paradigmbased algorithm for morphological analysis ofHindi, an inflecting language.
In Hindi, the in-flected forms of roots do not allow further at-tachment of any other suffixes.
In contrast, inMarathi once the root is transformed into its in-flected form it is followed by suffixes to showits agreement with the other words in the sen-tence.
Some postpositions derive new wordswhich themselves may undergo inflection andallow attachment of other suffixes.
This makesthe simple paradigm-based model proposed inthis work unfit for Marathi morphological analy-sis.Dixit et al (2006) developed a morphologicalanalyzer with a purpose of using it for spellchecking.
Though their analyzer successfullyanalyzes the words with a single suffix, its scopeis restricted to the handling of only first levelsuffixes.1.1 Our ApproachIn this paper, we present the morphologicalanalyzer for Marathi which is official languageof the state of Maharashtra (India).
With 90million fluent speakers worldwide, Marathiranks as the 4th most spoken language in Indiaand the 15th most in the world.
The methodologyis based on the use of paradigm-basedinflectional system combined with finite statemachines (FSMs) for modeling themorphotactics.
To the best of our knowledge,such an approach has never been tried out forMarathi.
The crux of the system lies in thedetailed study of morphosyntactic phenomena,the morphotactic structure of the language andthe use of paradigm-based inflectional system.The approach can be used for other inflection-al languages by developing the resources likelanguage specific inflection rules and the FSMthat models the morphotactics for the language.1.2 Marathi MorphologyMarathi is a morphologically rich language.
It ishighly inflectional and also shows derivation toa high degree.
Like other synthetic languages,Marathi morphological analysis faces somewell-known challenges.
Words contain multiplemorphemes fused together in such a way that, itbecomes difficult to segment them.
A singlemorpheme contains a bunch of grammaticalattributes associated with it which creates a chal-lenge for morphological parsing.
A single root iscapable of generating hundreds of words bycombining with the other morphemes.The complexity involved in the formation of apolymorphemic word can be better illustratedusing an example.
Consider the word{devaasaarakhyaalaa} (to the onelike the god).
The nominal root ?
?
{deva}(god) gets inflected to the oblique case, singularform ?
?
{devaa} which is then followed bythe adjectival suffix ?
?
{saarakhaa} (alike).This derives the adjective ?
?
{devaa-saarakhaa} (the one like the god) which thenstarts behaving like a noun.
This noun on gettinginflected to the oblique case, singular form{devasaarakhyaa} is followed by thecase marker  {laa} (to).
This gives the word{devaasaarakhyaalaa} (to the onelike the god).
Equation 1 illustrates this process.Equation 1.
Formation of  {de-vaasaarakhyaalaa} (to the one like the god)This suggests that the process of formation ofpolymorphemic words is recursive in nature withinflection taking place at every level of recur-sion.Section 2 discusses the design of the morpho-logical analyzer which tries to overcome theproblems discussed above with respect to Mara-thi language.
Sections 3 and 4 discuss the lin-guistic resources and the processing of wordsbelonging to various categories respectively.Sections 5 and discuss the classification of suf-fixes and development of automata based on thisclassification respectively.
Section 7 briefs onthe experimental setup and the results.272 Morphological Analyzer for MarathiThe formation of polymorphemic words leads tocomplexities which need to be handled duringthe analysis process.
FSMs prove to be elegantand computationally efficient tools for modelingthe suffix ordering in such words.
However, therecursive process of word formation in Marathiinvolves inflection at the time of attachment ofevery new suffix.
The FSMs need to be capableof handling them.
Koskenniemi (1983) suggeststhe use of separate FSMs to model the ortho-graphic changes.
But, Marathi has a well devisedsystem of paradigms to handle them.
One of ourobservations led us to a solution that combinesparadigm-based inflectional system with FSMfor modeling.
The observation was that, duringthe ith recursion only (i-1)th morpheme changesits form which can be handled by suitably mod-ifying the FSM.
The formation of the same worddevaasaarakhyaalaa described above can beviewed as illustrated in Equation 2.Equation 2.
Simulating the formation of{devaasaarakhyaalaa} (to theone like the god)Generalizing the word formation process we ar-rived at the formulation specified by Equation 3.Equation 3.
Formulation of PolymorphemicWord FormationThis requires a morphotactic FSM which isaware of the inflected forms of morphemes inaddition to the actual morphemes to handle theabove recursive process of word formation.
Weuse the paradigm-based system to generate theinflected form of the morphemes and feed themto the FSM.
Figure 1 shows the architecture ofthe morphological analyzer based on this philos-ophy.Inflector inflects all morphemes in the lex-icon using the inflection rules associated withthe paradigms to which they belong.Given a word, Morphological Recognizerrecognizes the constituent morphemes in theirinflected forms using finite state machine thatmodels the morphotactics.
For example, the out-put of the Morphological Recognizer for theword devaasaarakhyaalaa is devaa + saarakhyaa+ laa.
Morphological Parser outputs per mor-pheme analysis of the word using the mor-phemes recognized by the Morphological Re-cognizer.3 Linguistic ResourcesThe linguistic resources required by the morpho-logical analyzer include a lexicon and inflectionrules for all paradigms.3.1 LexiconAn entry in lexicon consists of a tuple <root,paradigm, category>.
The category specifies thegrammatical category of the root and the para-digm helps in retrieving the inflection rules as-sociated with it.
Our lexicon contains in all24035 roots belonging to different categories.Figure 1.
Architecture of Marathi Morphological Analyzer283.2 Inflection RulesInflection rules specify the inflectional suffixesto be inserted (or deleted) to (or from) differentpositions in the root to get its inflected form.
Aninflectional rule has the format: <inflectionalsuffixes, morphosyntactic features, label>.
Theelement morphosyntactic features specifies theset of morphosyntactic features associated withthe inflectional form obtained by applying thegiven inflection rule.
Following is the exhaustivelist of morphosyntactic features to which differ-ent morphemes get inflected:1) Case: Direct, Oblique2) Gender: Masculine, Feminine, Neuter,Non-specific3) Number: Singular, Plural, Non-specific4) Person: 1st, 2nd, 3rd5) Tense: Past, Present, Future6) Aspect: Perfective, Completive, Fre-quentative, Habitual, Durative, Incep-tive, Stative7) Mood: Imperative, Probabilitive, Sub-junctive, Conditional, Deontic, Abiltive,PermissiveThe label specifies the morphotactic class towhich the inflected form (generated by applyingthe inflection rule) belongs.
It is used by theMorphological Recognizer.4 Category Wise Morphological For-mulationThe grammatical categories observed in Marathiinclude nouns, pronouns, verbs, adjectives, ad-verbs, conjunctions, interjections and postposi-tions.
The morphemes belonging to differentcategories undergo different treatment.4.1 Noun MorphologyMarathi nouns inflect for number and case.Postpositions get attached to the oblique formsof the nouns (known as stems) to show their re-lationship with other words in the sentence.
Asingle stem is used for the attachment of allpostpositions which makes nominal morphologyabsolute economic in nature.
For example vari-ous forms of the word  {daara} (door) are{daaraasa} (to the door),  {daa-raane} (by the door),  {daaraashejarii}(besides the door).
Please note that the samestem  {daaraa} is used for the attachment ofvarious postpositions.Depending upon their ending, genderand the inflectional patterns, the nouns in Mara-thi can be classified into various paradigms.
Aparadigm is a complete set of related inflectionalforms associated with a given root.
All wordsthat share the similar inflectional forms fall inthe same paradigm.
Table 1 presents the para-digm  {daara} (door).CaseDirect  ObliqueNumber Singular  {daa-ra}{daaraa}Plural{daare}{daa-raaN}Table 1.
Paradigm Table for  {daara}(door){kaapaDa} (cloth),  {paana} (leaf),{pustaka} (book),  {kapaaTa} (cup-board) are the few nouns that fall into this para-digm.Every paradigm has a set of inflection rulesassociated with it one corresponding to everyinflectional form of the word.
A noun has fourinflectional forms each one corresponding to acase-number pair.
Hence, every paradigm hasfour inflectional rules associated with it.An inflectional rule for Marathi consists of atuple specifying the inflectional suffixes thatshould be inserted and deleted from ultimate andpenultimate position of the root.
Table 2 lists theinflectional suffixes that collectively form aninflectional rule.The procedure to obtain the inflected formof the given root R belonging to paradigm P byapplying the inflectional rule I <UD, UI, PUD,PUI> is as follows:i. R =R - PUDii.
R = R + PUIiii.
R = R ?
UDiv.
R = R + UISuffix DescriptionUltimateDeletionSuffix to be deleted from the ul-timate position of the root29(UD)UltimateInsertion(UI)Suffix  to be inserted at the ulti-mate position of the rootPenultimateDeletion(PUD)Suffix  to be deleted from the pe-nultimate position of the rootPenultimateInsertion(PUI)Suffix  to be inserted at the ulti-mate position of the rootTable 2.
Suffixes in an Inflectional RuleFor a given word, even if a single rule out of thefour is different from the set of available para-digms, a new paradigm needs to be created.
Ta-ble 3 shows the paradigm  {bhakta} (devo-tee).
Note that, the only difference between thetwo paradigm tables is in the direct case pluralform.CaseDirect  ObliqueNumber Singular{bhakta}{bhak-taa}Plural{bhakta}{bhak-taaN}Table 3.
Paradigm Table for  {bhakta}(devotee)In this way, our lexicon contains 16448 nounscategorized into 76 paradigms.
Out of the 76paradigms, 30 correspond to feminine gender, 29to masculine and 17 to neuter gender.
This set ofparadigms includes three null paradigms, onecorresponding to each gender.
In modern Mara-thi, the stem of the proper nouns or foreignwords transliterated in Marathi is same as theroot.
In short, postpositions can be directly at-tached to these roots without any modification.Such nouns belong to the null paradigm.4.2 Postposition MorphologyPostpositions follow the stems of nouns andpronouns.
Postpositions in Marathi can bebroadly classified into case markers and shab-dayogi avyayas.
Shabdayogi avyayas show therelationship of nouns and pronouns with the oth-er words in the sentence while deriving the ad-jectives or adverbs in most of the cases.
Depend-ing upon the category of the word derived bythem they are classified as adjectival and adver-bial suffixes respectively.
We have 142 postpo-sitions listed in our lexicon.4.3 Classification of PostpositionsThe first step towards defining the morphotacticsof a language is the classification of various suf-fixes into classes depending upon the mor-phemes they can follow and the morphemes thatcan follow them.
Given the list of 142 postposi-tions, we carefully examined each one to under-stand its morphotactic behavior and came upwith the classification of Marathi postpositionsas presented in the Table 4.Class Ordering Rules Ex-ampleCasemarkersThey can follow any ob-lique form.
No other suf-fixes can follow them.
{ne}(by)AdjectivalSuffixesThey can follow an obli-que form of a root.
Sincethey derive an adjective,they can be followed byany other suffixes.
{saa-rak-haa}(alikePossessivecasemarkerIt can follow any obliqueform.
It can be followedby any other suffixes.
{chaa}(theonebelonging tosome-thing)ClosingsuffixesThey can follow any ob-lique form.
No other suf-fixes can follow them.
{pek-shaa}(in-steadof){chaa}adjectivalsuffixIt can follow PeculiarNSTs and Nearly closingpostpositions.
It can befollowed by case mark-ers.
{chaa}(theone)Peculiar They can follow any ob-30NSTs lique form.
They can befollowed only by Exclu-sive postpositions and{chaa} adjectival suffix.
{ja-waLa}(near)Exclusivepostposi-tionsThey can follow peculiarNSTs.
They close theword.
{ii}(in-side)Nearlyclosingpostposi-tionsThey can follow obliqueforms of nouns and pro-nouns.
They can be fol-lowed by  {chaa} ad-jectival suffix.
{pa-ryan-ta}(uptil)Shuddha-shabdayo-gi avyayasThey can follow almostany morpheme exceptoblique forms of nouns.They can be followed bysome postpositions.
But,this behavior is quite ir-regular and needs moreinvestigation.
In most ofthe cases, these suffixesclose the word.
Hence,we consider them to beoccurring only at the endof the word.
{cha}(only)Table 4.
Classification of Postpositions4.4 VerbsThe verbs inflect for gender, number and personof the subject and the direct object in a sentence.They also inflect for tense and aspect of the ac-tion as well as mood of the speaker in an illocu-tionary act.
They may even undergo derivation.Further discussion on verbal morphology will bebased on Aakhyaata theory (inflection) and Kru-danta theory (derivation) (Damale, 1970).
Ourlexicon contains 1160 verb roots classified into22 paradigms.Aakhyaata Theory forms the basis ofverbal inflection in Marathi.
Aakhyaatarefers to tense, aspect, and mood.
Aakhyaata isrealized through an aakhyaata suffix which is aclosing suffix, attached to the verb root.
Thereare 8 types of aakhyaatas named after the pho-nemic shape of the aakhyaata suffix.
Associatedwith every aakhyaata are various aakhyaata-arthas which indicate the features: tense, aspectand mood.
An aakhyaata may or may not agreewith gender.
There are around 80 Aakhyaatasuffixes in Marathi.Krudanta Theory forms the basis ofverbal derivation in Marathi.
Krudanta refers tothe word ending in a krut-pratyaya (a suffixwhich refers to an action).
Krut-pratyayas areattached at the end of verbs to form non-infinitive verb forms.
These forms usually be-long to one of the categories: noun, adverb oradjective.
They contribute to the aspect of theverb from which they are derived.
We cover on-ly the krudanta forms which are regular in beha-vior.Irregular Verbs: Some verbs in Marathi havedifferent behavior as compared to the otherverbs (regular verbs).
These verbs are present insome inflected forms for which no definite stemexists.4.5 AdjectivesMarathi adjectives can be classified into twocategories: ones that do not inflect and othersthat inflect for gender, number and case wheresuch an inflection agrees with the gender andnumber of the noun modified by them.
The in-flectional forms of the adjectives are generatedusing similar procedure as that of nouns.4.6 PronounsThere are nine types of pronouns in Marathi.Pronouns possess very irregular behavior result-ing into a large number of suppletive forms.
Inaddition to these forms every pronoun has a spe-cific oblique form (one each for singular andplural) to which shabdayogi avyayas can be at-tached.4.7 Indeclinable WordsAdverbs, conjunctions and interjections are theindeclinable words.
Some adverbs can be fol-lowed by a subset of postpositions.5 Morphotactics and AutomataAlong with the postpositions mentioned in theTable 4 the complete set of morphemes in Mara-thi includes the roots and their inflectionalforms.
Every morpheme is labeled according tothe class it belongs to.
These labels are used todefine the ?Morphotactic FSM?
that models Ma-31rathi language.
Table 5 enlists various labelsused in the Morphotactic FSM.Type of Suffix LabelNouns, pronouns, nominal oradjectival krudantasDF 1OF 2Case markers 3Adjectival postpositions DF 4OF 5Possessive case marker DF 6OF 7Closing postpositions 8Peculiar NSTs 9Exclusive postpositions 10Nearly closing postpositions 11{chaa} adjectival suffix 12Adjective 1Aakhyaatas 1Adverbial krudantas 1Adverbs-1  1Adverbs-2 13Shuddhashabdayogi avyayas 14Table 5.
Morphotactic Labels of MorphemesDF: Direct form of a root or a suffixOF: Oblique form of a root or a suffixAdverb-1: The adverbs those cannot be followedby any postpositionsAdverb-2: The adverbs those can be followed bysome postpositionsNote that, the label field mentioned in the inflec-tion rules refers to the corresponding labels ofthe morphemes mentioned in Table 5.Figure 2 shows the FSM for morphologicalrecognition of Marathi.
The input symbols arethe labels of the morphemes as mentioned in theTable 5.
The classification of the suffixes asspecified in Table 5 explains the construction ofFSM.
We use SFST 1  (Stuttgart Finite StateTransducer) for implementing the FSM.6 ExperimentsMorphological analysis caters to the needs ofvariety of application like machine translation,information retrieval, spell-checking.
Differentapplications are interested in different bit of in-formation provided by the analyzer like thestem, the root, the suffixes or the morphosyntac-tic features.
Hence, the performance evaluationof a morphological analyzer has to be observedin terms of its impact on the performance of theapplications that use it.
Hence, we carry out theevaluation in two parts: In direct evaluation wedirectly measure the accuracy of morphologicalanalyzer on the given data.
In indirect evalua-tion, we observe the improvement in the per-formances of statistical pos tagger and chunker1 http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/gramotron/SOFTWARE/SFST.htmlFigure 2.
Morphotactic FSM32by using the morphological analyzer to generatethe morphological features that help in boostingtheir accuracies.
We used the corpora in TOUR-ISM and NEWS domain for all our experiments.6.1 Direct EvaluationWe used Marathi Morphological Analyzer forthe analysis of 21096 unique words.
We manual-ly measured the accuracy of the morphologicalanalyzer by counting the number of correctlyanalyzed words out of the total number ofwords.
In the cases where a word has multipleanalyses, the word was counted as correctly ana-lyzed only when all of the correct analyses arepresent.
Note that, in order to emphasize moreon the usefulness of our approach towards mor-phological analysis of Marathi, we added mostof the roots used in the corpus to the lexicon be-fore starting the experiments.
For a language likeMarathi, it is required to build a very rich lex-icon which can be done over a larger period oftime.Out of the 21096 unique words, 20503(97.18%) were found to be correctly analyzed.Of the remaining 593 words, 394 words couldnot be recognized by Morphological Recognizerand 199 words were assigned the incorrect orinsufficient analyses.By taking a closer look at the 394 wordswhich were not recognized (segmented) wecould come up with the causes of recognitionfailure as listed in Table 6.Cause Number ofWordsLexicon Coverage 82    (20.81%)Absence of Rules 69    (17.51%)Acronyms 66    (16.75%)Compound words  55    (13.96%)Irregular forms needingfurther investigation47    (11.92%)Transliterated words whichare uncommon25    (6.34%)Unidentified words 20    (5.08%)Dialect words/ words usedin spoken language20    (5.08%)Use of common nouns asproper nouns5     (1.27%)Missing Paradigm 3     (0.76%)Fusion (Sandhii) 2     (0.51%)Table 6.
Causes of Recognition Failure6.2 Indirect EvaluationCRF based sequence labelers (pos taggerand chunker) were trained using morpholog-ical features and the other elementary featureslike (contextual words and bigram tags).
Themorphological features include ambiguityscheme (set of all possible categories of a word)and the suffixes for the pos tagger whereas justthe suffixes in case of chunker.To throw the light of role played by morpho-logical analyzer in improving the accuracies ofthe sequence labelers, we performed the experi-ments using two sets of features: The LearningBased (LB) labeler was trained using only ele-mentary features whereas Morphologically Dri-ven Learning Based (MDLB) labeler used themorphological features along with the elementa-ry features.
The results were obtained by per-forming 4-fold cross validation over the corpora.The average accuracy of MDLB Pos taggerturned out to be 95.03 as compared to 85% ofLB.
The average accuracy of MDLB chunkerwas found to be 97.87% whereas that of LB wasfound to be 96.91%.
.7 Conclusion and Future WorkWe presented a high accuracy morphologicalanalyzer for Marathi that exploits the regularityin the inflectional paradigms while employingthe Finite State Systems for modeling the lan-guage in an elegant way.
The accuracy figures ashigh as 97.18% in direct evaluation and the per-formance improvement in shallow parsing speakabout the performance of the morphological ana-lyzer.
We gave detailed description of the mor-phological phenomena present in Marathi.
Theclassification of postpositions and the develop-ment of morphotactic FSA is one of the impor-tant contributions since Marathi has complexmorphotactics.
As a next step the morphologicalanalyzer can be further extended to handle thederivation morphology and compound words.ReferencesAntworth, E. L. 1990.
PC-KIMMO: A Two-level Processor for Morphological Analysis.Occasional Publications in Academic Com-puting.
Summer Institute  of  Linguistics,Dallas,  Texas.33Bharati, Akshar, Vin eet  Chaitanya, andRajeev Sanghal 1995.
Natural LanguageProcessing: A Paninian Perspective.
Pren-tice Hall, India.Damale, M. K. 1970.
Shastriya MarathiiVyaakarana.
Deshmukhand Company, Pune, India.Dixit, Veena, Satish Dethe, and RushikeshK.
Joshi.
2006.
Design and Implementationof a Morphology-based Spellchecker forMarathi, an Indian Language.In Special issue on Human Language Tech-nologies as a challenge for ComputerScienceand Linguistics.
Part I.
15, pages 309?316.Archives of Control Sciences.Eryi?it, G?l?en and Adal?
E?ref.
2004.
AnAffix Stripping Morphological Analyzer forTurkish.
In IASTED International Multi-Conference on Artificial Intelligence andApplications.
Innsbruck, Austria, pages299?304.Kim, Deok-Bong., Sung-Jin Lee, Key-SunChoi, and Gil-Chang Kim (1994).
A two-level Morphological Analysis of Korean.
InConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING), pages 535?539.Koskenniemi, Kimmo 1983.
Two-levelMorphology: a general  computationalmodel for word-form recognition and pro-duction.
University of Helsinki, Helsinki.Oflazer, Kemal 1993.
Two-level Descriptionof Turkish Morphology.
In The EuropeanChapter of the ACL (EACL).34
