Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Creating Speech and Language Data with Amazon?s Mechanical Turk, pages 80?88,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnnotating Named Entities in Twitter Data with CrowdsourcingTim Finin, Will Murnane, Anand Karandikar, Nicholas Keller and Justin MartineauComputer Science and Electrical EngineeringUniversity of Maryland, Baltimore CountyBaltimore MD 21250(finin,willm1,anandk1,nick6,jm1)@umbc.eduMark DredzeHuman Language Technology Center of ExcellenceJohns Hopkins UniversityBaltimore MD 21211mdredze@cs.jhu.eduAbstractWe describe our experience using both Ama-zon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) and Crowd-Flower to collect simple named entity anno-tations for Twitter status updates.
Unlike mostgenres that have traditionally been the focus ofnamed entity experiments, Twitter is far moreinformal and abbreviated.
The collected anno-tations and annotation techniques will providea first step towards the full study of named en-tity recognition in domains like Facebook andTwitter.
We also briefly describe how to useMTurk to collect judgements on the quality of?word clouds.
?1 Introduction and Dataset DescriptionInformation extraction researchers commonly workon popular formal domains, such as news arti-cles.
More diverse studies have included broadcastnews transcripts, blogs and emails (Strassel et al,2008).
However, extremely informal domains, suchas Facebook, Twitter, YouTube or Flickr are start-ing to receive more attention.
Any effort aimed atstudying these informal genres will require at least aminimal amount of labeled data for evaluation pur-poses.This work details how to efficiently annotate largevolumes of data, for information extraction tasks, atlow cost using MTurk (Snow et al, 2008; Callison-Burch, 2009).
This paper describes a case study forinformation extraction tasks involving short, infor-mal messages from Twitter.
Twitter is a large multi-user site for broadcasting short informal messages.Twitter is an extreme example of an informal genre(Java et al, 2007) as users frequently abbreviatetheir posts to fit within the specified limit.
Twitteris a good choice because it is very popular: Twitterusers generate a tremendous number of status up-dates (tweets) every day1.
This is a good genre towork on named entity extraction since many tweetsrefer to and contain updates about named entities.Our Twitter data set has over 150 million tweetsfrom 1.5 million users collected over a period ofthree years.
Tweets are unlike formal text.
They arelimited to a maximum of 140 characters, a limit orig-inally set to allow them to fit into an SMS message.Consequently, the use of acronyms and both stan-dard and non-standard abbreviations (e.g., b4 for be-fore and ur for your) are very common.
Tweets tendto be telegraphic and often consist of sentence frag-ments or other ungrammatical sequences.
Normalcapitalization rules (e.g., for proper names, book ti-tles, etc.)
are commonly ignored.Furthermore, users have adopted numerous con-ventions including hashtags, user mentions, andretweet markers.
A hashtag (e.g., #earthquake) isa token beginning with a ?#?
character that denotesone of the topic of a status.
Hashtags can be used aspure metadata or serve both as a word and as meta-data, as the following two examples show.?
EvanEcullen: #chile #earthquake #tsunami Theyheard nothing of a tsunami until it slammed intotheir house with an unearthly http://tl.gd/d798d?
LarsVonD: Know how to help #Chile after the#Earthquake1Pingdom estimated that there were nearly 40 million tweetsa day in January 2010 (pingdom.com, 2010).80(1) report from the economist: #chile counts the costof a devastating earthquake and makes plans for re-covery.
http://bit.ly/dwoQMDNote: ?the economist?
was not recognized as anORG.
(2) how come when george bush wanted to take outmillions for the war congress had no problem...butwhe obama wants money for healthcare the ...Note: Both ?george bush?
and ?obama?
were missedas PERs.
(3) RT @woodmuffin: jay leno interviewing sarahpalin: the seventh seal starts to show a few cracksNote: RT (code for a re-tweet) was mistaken as a po-sition and sarah palin missed as a person.Table 1: Standard named entity systems trained on text fromnewswire articles and other well formed documents lose accu-racy when applied to short status updates.The Twitter community also has a convention whereuser names preceded by an @ character (known as?mentions?)
at the beginning of a status indicate thatit is a message directed at that user.
A user mentionin the middle of a message is interpreted as a generalreference to that user.
Both uses are shown in thisstatus:?
paulasword: @obama quit calling @johnboener aliar, you liarThe token RT is used as a marker that a person is for-warding a tweet originally sent by another user.
Nor-mally the re-tweet symbol begins the message andis immediately followed by the user mention of theoriginal author or sometimes a chain of re-tweetersending with the original author, as in?
politicsiswar: RT @KatyinIndy @SamiShamieh:Ghost towns on rise under Obamahttp://j.mp/cwJSUg #tcot #gop (Deindustrial-ization of U.S.- Generation Zero)Finally, ?smileys?
are common in Twitter statuses tosignal the users?
sentiment, as in the following.?
sallytherose: Just wrote a 4-page paper in an hourand a half.
BOiiiiii I?m getting good at this.
:) Left-over Noodles for dinner as a reward.
:DThe Twitter search service also uses these to retrievetweets matching a query with positive or negativesentiment.Typical named entity recognition systems havebeen trained on formal documents, such as newsFigure 1: Our Twitter collection is stored in a relationaldatabase and also in the Lucene information retrieval system.wire articles.
Their performance on text from verydifferent sources, especially informal genres such asTwitter tweets or Facebook status updates, is poor.In fact, ?Systems analyzing correctly about 90% ofthe sequences from a journalistic corpus can have adecrease of performance of up to 50% on more in-formal texts.?
(Poibeau and Kosseim, 2001) How-ever, many large scale information extraction sys-tems require extracting and integrating useful in-formation from online social networking sourcesthat are informal such as Twitter, Facebook, Blogs,YouTube and Flickr.To illustrate the problem we applied both theNLTK (Bird et al, 2009) and the Stanford namedentity recognizers (Finkel et al, 2005) without re-training to a sample Twitter dataset with mixed re-sults.
We have observed many failures, both falsepositives and false negatives.
Table 1 shows someexamples of these.2 Task designWe developed separate tasks on CrowdFlower andMTurk using a common collection of Twitter sta-tuses and asked workers to perform the same anno-tation task in order to fully understand the featuresthat each provides, and to determine the total amountof work necessary to produce a result on each ser-vice.
MTurk has the advantage of using standardHTML and Javascript instead of CrowdFlower?sCML.
However MTurk has inferior data verifica-tion, in that the service only provides a thresholdon worker agreement as a form of quality control.81This is quite poor when tasks are more complicatedthan a single boolean judgment, as with the case athand.
CrowdFlower works across multiple servicesand does verification against gold standard data, andcan get more judgements to improve quality in caseswhere it?s necessary.3 Annotation guidelinesThe task asked workers to look at Twitter individ-ual status messages (tweets) and use a toggle but-ton to tag each word with person (PER), organiza-tion (ORG), location (LOC), or ?none of the above?(NONE).
Each word also had a check box (labeled???)
to indicate that uncertainty.
We provided theworkers with annotation guidelines adapted from thethose developed by the Linguistic Data Consortium(Linguistic Data Consortium ?
LCTL Team, 2006)which were in turn based on guidelines used forMUC-7 (Chinchor and Robinson, 1997).We deliberately kept our annotation goals simple:We only asked workers to identify three basic typesof named entities.Our guidelines read:An entity is a object in the world like a placeor person and a named entity is a phrase thatuniquely refers to an object by its proper name(Hillary Clinton), acronym (IBM), nickname(Opra) or abbreviation (Minn.).Person (PER) entities are limited to humans(living, deceased, fictional, deities, ...) iden-tified by name, nickname or alias.
Don?t in-clude titles or roles (Ms., President, coach).Include suffix that are part of a name (e.g., Jr.,Sr.
or III).Organization (ORG) entities are limited tocorporations, institutions, government agen-cies and other groups of people defined byan established organizational structure.
Someexamples are businesses (Bridgestone SportsCo.
), stock ticker symbols (NASDAQ), multi-national organizations (European Union), po-litical parties (GOP) non-generic governmententities (the State Department), sports teams(the Yankees), and military groups (the TamilTigers).
Do not tag ?generic?
entities like ?thegovernment?
since these are not unique propernames referring to a specific ORG.Location (LOC) entities include names ofpolitically or geographically defined places(cities, provinces, countries, international re-gions, bodies of water, mountains, etc.).
Lo-cations also include man-made structures likeairports, highways, streets, factories and mon-uments.We instructed annotators to ignore other types ofnamed entities, e.g., events (World War II), products(iPhone), animals (Cheetah), inanimate objects andmonetary units (the Euro) and gave them four prin-ciples to follow when tagging:?
Tag words according to their meaning in thecontext of the tweet.?
Only tag names, i.e., words that directly anduniquely refer to entities.?
Only tag names of the types PER,ORG, andLOC.?
Use the ???
checkbox to indicate uncertaintyin your tag.3.1 Data selectionWe created a ?gold standard?
data set of about 400tweets to train and screen workers on MTurk, to saltthe MTurk data with worker evaluation data, for useon CrowdFlower, and to evaluate the performanceof the final NER system after training on the crowd-sourced annotations.
We preselected tweets to an-notate using the NLTK named entity recognizer toselect statuses that were thought to contain namedentities of the desired types (PER, ORG, LOC).Initial experiments suggested that a worker canannotate about 400 tweets an hour.
Based on this, weloaded each MTurk Human Intelligence Tasks (HIT)with five tweets, and paid workers five cents per HIT.Thus, if we require that each tweet be annotated bytwo workers, we would be able to produce about4,400 raw annotated tweets with the $100 grant fromAmazon, accounting for their 10% overhead price.3.2 CrowdFlowerWe also experimented with CrowdFlower, a crowd-sourcing service that uses various worker channelslike MTurk and SamaSource2 and provides an en-hanced set of management and analytic tools.
Wewere interested in understanding the advantages anddisadvantages compared to using MTurk directly.2http://www.samasource.org/82Figure 2: CrowdFlower is an enhanced service that feeds intoMTurk and other crowdsourcing systems.
It provides conve-nient management tools that show the performance of workersfor a task.We prepared a basic front-end for our job using theCrowdFlower Markup Language (CML) and customJavaScript.
We used the CrowdFlower interface tocalibrate our job and to decide the pay rate.
It con-siders various parameters like amount of time re-quired to complete a sample task and the desired ac-curacy level to come up with a pay rate.One attractive feature lets one provide a set of?gold standard?
tasks that pair data items with cor-rect responses.
These are automatically mixed intothe stream of regular tasks that workers process.
Ifa worker makes errors in one of these gold stan-dard tasks, she gets immediate feedback about hererror and the correct answer is shown.
CrowdFlowerclaims that error rates are reduced by a factor oftwo when gold standards are used(crowdflower.com,2010).
The interface shown in Figure 2 shows thenumber of gold tasks the user has seen, and howmany they have gotten correct.CrowdFlower?s management tools provides a de-tailed analysis of the workers for a job, includingthe trust level, accuracy and past accuracy historyassociated with each worker.
In addition, the outputrecords include the geographical region associatedwith each worker, information that may be usefulfor some tasks.3.3 MTurkThe current iteration of our MTurk interface isshown in Figure 3.
Each tweet is shown at the topof the HIT interface so that it can easily be read forcontext.
Then a table is displayed with each wordof the tweet down the side, and radio buttons to pickFigure 3: In the MTurk interface a tweet is shown in its entiretyat the top, then a set of radio buttons and a checkbox is shownfor each word of the tweet.
These allow the user to pick theannotation for each word, and indicate uncertainty in labeling.what kind of entity each word is.
Every ten rows,the header is repeated, to allow the worker to scrolldown the page and still see the column labels.
Theinterface also provides a checkbox allows the workerto indicate uncertainty in labeling a word.We expect that our data will include some trickycases where an annotator, even an experienced one,may be unsure whether a word is part of a namedentity and/or what type it is.
For example, is ?Bal-timore Visionary Art Museum?
a LOC followed bya three word ORG, or a four-word ORG?
We con-sidered and rejected using hierarchical named enti-ties in order to keep the annotation task simple.
An-other example that might give an annotator pause isa phrase like ?White House?
can be used as a LOCor ORG, depending on the context.This measure can act as a measure of a worker?squality: if they label many things as ?uncertain?,we might guess that they are not producing goodresults in general.
Also, the uncertainty allows fora finer-grained measure of how closely the resultsfrom two workers for the same tweet match: if theworkers disagree on the tagging of a particular word,but agree that it is not certain, we could decide thatthis word is a bad example and not use it as trainingdata.Finally, a help screen is available.
When the usermouses over the word ?Help?
in the upper right, theguidelines discussed in Section 3 are displayed.
Thescreenshot in Figure 3 shows the help dialog ex-panded.The MTurk interface uses hand-written Javascriptto produce the table of words, radio buttons, and83Figure 4: Only about one-third of the workers did more thanthree HITs and a a few prolific workers accounted for most ofour data.checkboxes.
The form elements have automaticallygenerated names, which MTurk handles neatly.
Ad-ditional Javascript code collects location informa-tion from the workers, based on their IP address.
Aservice provided by Geobytes3 provides the locationdata.4 Results from MTurkOur dataset was broken into HITs of four previ-ously unlabeled tweets, and one previously labeledtweet (analogous to the ?gold?
data used by Crowd-Flower).
We submitted 251 HITs, each of which wasto be completed twice, and the job took about 15hours.
Total cost for this job was $27.61, for a totalcost per tweet of about 2.75 cents each (although wealso paid to have the gold tweets annotated again).42 workers participated, mostly from the US andIndia, with Australia in a distant third place.
Mostworkers did only a single HIT, but most HITs weredone by a single worker.
Figure 4 shows more detail.After collecting results from MTurk, we had tocome up with a strategy for determining whichof the results (if any) were filled randomly.
Todo this, we implemented an algorithm much likeGoogle?s PageRank (Brin and Page, 1998) to judgethe amount of inter-worker agreement.
Pseudocodefor our algorithm is presented in Figure 5.This algorithm doesn?t strictly measure workerquality, but rather worker agreement, so it?s impor-3http://www.geobytes.com/WORKER-AGREE : results ?
scores1 worker ids ?
ENUMERATE(KEYS(results)) Initialize A2 for worker1 ?
worker ids3 do for worker2 ?
worker ids4 do A[worker1 ,worker2 ]?
SIMILARITY(results[worker1 ],results[worker2 ]) Normalize columns of A so that they sum to 1 (elided) Initialize x to be normal: each workeris initially trusted equally.5 x?
?1?n, .
.
.
, 1?n? Find the largest eigenvector of A, whichcorresponds to the agreement-with-groupvalue for each worker.6 i?
07 while i < max iter8 do xnew ?
NORMALIZE(A?
x)9 diff ?
xnew ?
x10 x = xnew11 if diff < tolerance12 then break13 i?
i + 114 for workerID ,workerNum ?
worker ids15 do scores[workerID ]?
x[workerNum]16 return scoresFigure 5: Intra-worker agreement algorithm.
MTurk results arestored in an associative array, with worker IDs as keys and listsof HIT results as values, and worker scores are floating pointvalues.
Worker IDs are mapped to integers to allow standardmatrix notation.
The Similarity function in line four just returnsthe fraction of HITs done by two workers where their annota-tions agreed.tant to ensure that the workers it judges as havinghigh agreement values are actually making high-quality judgements.
Figure 6 shows the workeragreement values plotted against the number of re-sults a particular worker completed.
The slope ofthis plot (more results returned tends to give higherscores) is interpreted to be because practice makesperfect: the more HITs a worker completes, themore experience they have with the task, and themore accurate their results will be.So, with this agreement metric established, we setout to find out how well it agreed with our expecta-tion that it would also function as a quality metric.Consider those workers that completed only a sin-gle HIT (there are 18 of them): how well did theydo their jobs, and where did they end up ranked as aresult?
Since each HIT is composed of five tweets,84Figure 6: This log-log plot of worker agreement scores versusthe number of results clearly shows that workers who have donemore HITs have better inter-annotator agreement scores.even such a small sample can contain a lot of data.Figure 7 shows a sample annotation for threetweets, each from a worker who did only one HIT,and the ranking that the worker received for doingthat annotation.
The worst scoring one is apparentlya random fill: there?s no correlation at all betweenthe answers and the correct ones.
The middle tweetis improved: ?Newbie?
isn?t a person in this con-text, but it?s a mistake a non-native speaker mightmake, and everything else is right, and the score ishigher.
The last tweet is correctly labeled within ourparameters, and scores the highest.
This experimentshows that our agreement metric functions well as acorrectness metric.Also of interest is the raw effectiveness of MTurkworkers; did they manage to tag tweets as well asour experts?
After investigating the data, our verdictis that the answer is not quite?but by carefully com-bining the tags that two people give the same tweetit is possible to get good answers nevertheless, atmuch lower cost than employing a single expert.5 Results from CrowdFlowerOur CrowdFlower task involved 30 tweets.
Eachtweet was further split into tokens resulting in 506units as interpreted by CrowdFlower?s system.
Werequired a total 986 judgments.
In addition, we wereScore 0.0243 Score 0.0364 Score 0.0760Trying org Newbie person Trying noneto org here none out nonedecide org nice none TwittEarth orgif org to none - noneit?s org meet none Good noneworth place you none graphics.
nonehanging org all none Fun nonearound org but noneuntil org useless.
nonethe none (URL) nonefinal orgimplosion orgFigure 7: These sample annotations represent the range ofworker quality for three workers who did only one HIT.
Thefirst is an apparently random annotation, the second a plausiblebut incorrect one, and the third a correct annotation.
Our algo-rithm assigned these workers scores aligned with their productquality.Figure 8: CrowdFlower provides good interfaces to managecrowdsourcing tasks.
This view lets us to monitor the numberof judgements in each category.required to generate thirteen ?gold?
data, which isthe minimum required by the service.
Every goldanswer has an optional text with it to inform work-ers why we believe our answer is the correct one andtheirs is incorrect.
This facilitates gradually train-ing workers up to the point where they can providereliably correct results.
Figure 8 shows the inter-face CrowdFlower provides to monitor the numberof judgements in each category.We used the calibration interface that Crowd-Flower provides to fix the price for our task (Fig-ure 9).
It considers various parameters like the timerequired per unit and desired accuracy level, and alsoadds a flat 33%markup on the actual labor costs.
Wedivided the task into a set of assignments where eachassignment had three tweets and was paid five cents.We set the time per unit as 30 seconds, so, based onthe desired accuracy level and markup overhead, ourjob?s cost was $2.19.
This comes to $2 hourly payper worker, assuming they take the whole 30 sec-85Figure 9: CrowdFlower has an interface that makes it easy toselect an appropriate price for a task.onds to complete the task.6 Cloud ComparisonMTurk can also be used to efficiently evaluate re-sults requiring human judgments.
We implementedan additional HIT to evaluate a new technique wedeveloped to generate ?word clouds.?
In this taskworkers choose which of two word clouds generatedfrom query results by two different algorithms pro-vides a more useful high level description that canhighlight important features and opinions about thequery topic.Evaluating how well a set of words describesand highlights the important features and opinionspertaining to the subject of the query is subjec-tive, which necessitates human evaluations.
MTurkworkers were given two word clouds, one from ourtechnique and the other from a baseline relevancefeedback technique (Rocchio (Rocchio, 1971)), foreach query.
Queries were shown with a short de-scriptive blurb to disambiguate it from possible al-ternatives, reveal the intent of the user who createdthe query, and provide a short description of it forworkers who were unfamiliar with the query subject.Wikipedia links were provided, when applicable, foranyone needing further information about the querysubject.
Workers were asked to use a slider to de-termine which cloud better represented the key con-cepts related to the query.
The slider would snapinto one of eleven positions, which were labeledwith value judgments they represented.
The cen-ter value indicates that the two clouds were equallygood.
Figure 10 shows the final query interface.Figure 10: MTurk workers were asked which word cloud theythought best represented returned the results of a query, in thiscase ?Buffy the Vampire Slayer?.6.1 ResultsSince MTurk workers are paid per task they com-plete, there is an incentive to do low quality workand even to randomly guess to get tasks done asfast as possible.
To ensure a high quality evaluationwe included in every batch of five queries a qual-ity control question.
Quality control questions weredesigned to look exactly like the regular cloud com-parisons, but only one of the two clouds displayedwas actually from the query in the description.
Theother word cloud was generated from a differentquery with no relation to the real query, and handchecked to make sure that anyone who was doing arespectable job would agree that the off-topic wordcloud was a poor result for the query.
If a worker?sresponse indicated that the off topic cloud was asgood as or better than the real cloud then they failedthat control question, otherwise they passed.86We asked that twelve workers label each set ofquestions.
We only used results from workers thatanswered at least seven control questions with anaverage accuracy rating of at least 75%.
This leftus with a pool of eight reliable workers with an av-erage accuracy on control questions of about 91%.Every question was labeled by at least five differentworkers with a mode of seven.Workers were not told which technique producedwhich cloud.
Techniques were randomly assigned toeither cloud A or B to prevent people from enteringinto a ?cloud A is always better?
mentality.
The po-sition of the quality control questions were randomlyassigned in each set of five cloud comparisons.
Thelinks to the cloud images were anonymized to ran-dom numbers followed by the letter A or B for theirposition to prevent workers from guessing anythingabout either the query or the technique that gener-ated the cloud.We applied a filter to remove the query wordsfrom all word clouds.
First of all, it would be adead giveaway on the control questions.
Second,the query words are already known and thus pro-vide no extra information about the query to the userwhile simultaneously taking up the space that couldbe used to represent other more interesting words.Third, their presence and relative size compared tothe baseline could cause users to ignore other fea-tures especially when doing a quick scan.The slider scores were converted into numericalscores ranging from -5 to +5, with zero represent-ing that the two clouds were equal.
We averagedthe score for each cloud comparison, and determinedthat for 44 out of 55 clouds workers found our tech-nique to be better than the baseline approach.6.2 IssuesWe faced some issues with the CrowdFlower sys-tem.
These included incorrect calibration for jobs,errors downloading results from completed jobs,price displayed on MTurk being different that whatwas set through CrowdFlower and gold standarddata not getting stored on CrowdFlower system.
An-other problem was with the system?s 10-token limiton gold standards, which is not yet resolved at thetime of this writing.
On the whole, the CrowdFlowerteam has been very quick to respond to our problemsand able to correct the problems we encountered.Figure 11: Statistics for worker #181799.
The interface has anoption to ?forgive?
the worker for missing gold and an optionto ?flag?
the worker so that the answers are excluded while re-turning the final set of judgments.
It also displays workers ID,past accuracy and source, e.g.
MTurk.6.3 Live AnalyticsCrowdFlower?a analytics panel facilitates viewingthe live responses.
The trust associated with eachworker can be seen under the workers panel.
Work-ers who do a large amount of work with low trust arelikely scammers or automated bots.
Good gold dataensures that their work is rejected.
The system auto-matically pauses a job when the ratio of untrusted totrusted judgments exceeds a certain mark.
This wasparticularly helpful for us to rectify some of our golddata.
Currently, the job is being completed with 61%accuracy for gold data.
This could be due to the cur-rent issue we are facing as described above.
It?s alsopossible to view statistics for individual workers, asshown in Figure 11.7 ConclusionCrowdsourcing is an effective way to collect annota-tions for natural language and information retrievalresearch.
We found both MTurk and CrowdFlowerto be flexible, relatively easy to use, capable of pro-ducing usable data, and very cost effective.Some of the extra features and interface optionsthat CrowdFlower provided were very useful, butdid their were problems with their ?gold standard?agreement evaluation tools.
Their support staff wasvery responsive and helpful, mitigating some ofthese problems.
We were able to duplicate some ofthe ?gold standard?
functionality on MTurk directlyby generating our own mix of regular and qualitycontrol queries.
We did not attempt to provide im-87mediate feedback to workers who enter a wrong an-swer for the ?gold standard?
queries, however.With these labeled tweets, we plan to train an en-tity recognizer using the Stanford named entity rec-ognizer4, and run it on our dataset.
After using thistrained entity recognizer to find the entities in ourdata, we will compare its accuracy to the existingrecognized entities, which were recognized by anER trained on newswire articles.
We will also at-tempt to do named entity linking and entity resolu-tion on the entire corpus.We look forward to making use of the data wecollected in our research and expect that we will usethese services in the future when we need humanjudgements.AcknowledgmentsThis work was done with partial support from theOffice of Naval Research and the Johns HopkinsUniversity Human Language Technology Center ofExcellence.
We thank both Amazon and DoloresLabs for grants that allowed us to use their systemsfor the experiments.ReferencesS.
Bird, E. Klein, and E. Loper.
2009.
Natural languageprocessing with Python.
Oreilly & Associates Inc.S.
Brin and L. Page.
1998.
The anatomy of a large-scalehypertextual web search engine.
In Seventh Interna-tional World-Wide Web Conference (WWW 1998).C.
Callison-Burch.
2009.
Fast, Cheap, and Creative:Evaluating Translation Quality Using Amazons Me-chanical Turk.
In Proceedings of EMNLP 2009.N.
Chinchor and P. Robinson.
1997.
MUC-7 named en-tity task definition.
In Proceedings of the 7th MessageUnderstanding Conference.
NIST.crowdflower.com.
2010.
The error rates with-out the gold standard is more than twice ashigh as when we do use a gold standard.http://crowdflower.com/general/examples.
Accessedon April 11, 2010.J.R.
Finkel, T. Grenager, and C. Manning.
2005.
In-corporating non-local information into information ex-traction systems by gibbs sampling.
In Proceedings ofthe 43nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL 2005), volume 100, pages363?370.4http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtmlA.
Java, X.
Song, T. Finin, and B. Tseng.
2007.
Why wetwitter: understanding microblogging usage and com-munities.
In Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1stSNA-KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and socialnetwork analysis, pages 56?65.
ACM.Linguistic Data Consortium ?
LCTL Team.
2006.
Sim-ple named entity guidelines for less commonly taughtlanguages, March.
Version 6.5.pingdom.com.
2010.
Twitter: Now more than 1billion tweets per month.
http://royal.pingdom.com-/2010/02/10/twitter-now-more-than-1-billion-tweets-per-month/, February.
Accessed on February 15,2010.T.
Poibeau and L. Kosseim.
2001.
Proper Name Extrac-tion from Non-Journalistic Texts.
In Computationallinguistics in the Netherlands 2000: selected papersfrom the eleventh CLIN Meeting, page 144.
Rodopi.J.
Rocchio.
1971.
Relevance feedback in information re-trieval.
In G. Salton, editor, The SMART Retrieval Sys-tem: Experiments in Automatic Document Processing.Prentice-Hall.R.
Snow, B. O?Connor, D. Jurafsky, and A.Y.
Ng.
2008.Cheap and fast?but is it good?
: evaluating non-expertannotations for natural language tasks.
In Proceedingsof the Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 254?263.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Stephanie Strassel, Mark Przybocki, Kay Peterson, ZhiyiSong, and Kazuaki Maeda.
2008.
Linguistic re-sources and evaluation techniques for evaluation ofcross-document automatic content extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the 6th International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.88
