Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 142?146,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding the Syntactic Reference Corpus of Medieval FrenchUsing NotaBene RDF Annotation ToolNicolas MazziottaUniversit?t Stuttgart, Institut f?r Linguistik/Romanistiknicolas.mazziotta@ulg.ac.beAbstractIn this paper, we introduce the NotaBeneRDF Annotation Tool free software usedto build the Syntactic Reference Cor-pus of Medieval French.
It relies on adependency-based model to manually an-notate Old French texts from the Base deFran?ais M?di?val and the Nouveau Cor-pus d?Amsterdam.NotaBene uses OWL ontologies to framethe terminology used in the annotation,which is displayed in a tree-like view ofthe annotation.
This tree widget alowseasy grouping and tagging of words andstructures.
To increase the quality of theannotation, two annotators work indepen-dently on the same texts at the same timeand NotaBene can also generate automaticcomparisons between both analyses.
TheRDF format can be used to export thedata to several other formats: namely,TigerXML (for querying the data and ex-tracting structures) and graphviz dot for-mat (for quoting syntactic description inresearch papers).First, we will present the Syntactic ReferenceCorpus of Medieval French project (SRCMF) (1).Then, we will show how the NotaBene RDF An-notation Tool software is used within the project(2).
In our conclusion, we will stress further de-velopments of the tool (3).1 Introducing the SRCMF Project1.1 Main goalsThere currently exists no widely available syn-tactically annotated corpus for Medieval French.Several syntactic corpora are available for Latin11The Latin Dependency Treebank and the Index Thomisti-cus Treebank (Bamman et al, 2008).or Old Portuguese.2 Research for automatic anno-tation of Medieval French is being carried out bythe Mod?liser le changement: les voies du fran?aisproject.3SRCMF is an international initiative, gatheringFrench (dir.
Sophie Pr?vost, CNRS, Paris) andGerman (dir.
Achim Stein, Institut f?r Linguis-tik/Romanistik, University of Stuttgart) resourcesand teams.
The aim of this project is to provideselected excerpts4 of the two biggest MedievalFrench corpora ?
the Base de Fran?ais M?di?val(Guillot et al, 2007), and the Nouveau Corpusd?Amsterdam (Kunstmann and Stein, 2007a) witha syntactic annotation layer that is meant to followthe same guidelines in both corpora.It was decided at the very beginning of theproject that, at first, the syntactic analysis wouldbe manually added to the corpus by experts, ratherthan automatically inserted by an automaton.5.Accordingly, annotation layers that previously ex-ist are not used to elaborate the new layer.
Thischoice leads to several consequences, when oneconsiders the mistakes that could be made duringthe annotation procedure: 1/ errors are less sys-tematic than those introduced by an automaton;2/ the annotation model does not need to be for-malised at first; 3/ proofreading is very important.While the first point might be a major advantagein a further statistical exploration of the data (be-cause of the ?better?
randomness of the errors),the third is a major problem: proofreading is verytime-consuming.
But as previous automatic POSannotation is provided in both corpora, this tag-ging can be used a posteriori.
We plan to performmutual validation between the POS and the syn-2Tycho Brahe project http://www.tycho.iel.unicamp.br/~tycho/.3Which provide syntactic annotation for 19 texts datingfrom the 11th to the end of the 13th C. (Martineau, 2008).4There are still legal and technical issues that interferewith the final size of the corpus.5Automatic annotation will be investigated later on.142tactic annotations: this procedure is allowed by theindependency of their elaborations.At the time this paper was submitted, the sampleannotation of Le Roman de Tristan (Defourquesand Muret, 1947) (ca 28.000 words, ca 54.000 an-notations)6 has been completed and will be madeavailable soon.1.2 Syntactic Annotation ModelWe will not give an in-depth description of themodel here: we limit ourselves to a general pre-sentation that will make the rest of the paper moreeasily understandable.The deficient nominal flexion in MedievalFrench makes the task of identifying the head ofNPs very difficult, and there is considerable am-biguity.
Therefore, the basic annotation we pro-vide only concerns the structure of the clause, andrelations at phrase- or word-level (Lazard, 1984)are not described, except by a basic identificationof prepositions and conjunctions, and by delimita-tion, when necessary (e.g., relative clauses occurat phrase-level: we mark their boundaries in orderto describe their structure).It is to be stressed that the added annotationsare as genuinely syntactic as possible.
This meansthat neither semantic, nor enunciative analyses areencoded ?following the Th?orie des trois points devue (Hag?ge, 1999).
On the formal part, as far asmorphological features are concerned, only verbalinflexion is taken into account, since it has obviouseffects on the syntax of the clause.
It is also impor-tant to distinguish between syntactic structures,which occur at deep level, and word order, whichis considered as an expression of these structuresand does not receive any annotation.The model is dependency-based (Polgu?re andMel?c?uk, 2009; Kahane, 2001), and relations arecentered on verb forms, which are the main gover-nor nodes of the clauses.
Everything in the clausedepends on this central verb ?including the sub-ject, which is not compulsory in Medieval French,and is therefore described as a complement.
Themodel gives higher priority to morphosyntacticcriteria than to semantic ones, and the relationlinking it to its satellites can be qualified by check-ing precise criteria.
E.g., subjects are identified byverb-subject agreement, objects become subjectsin a passive transformation, etc.6We do not provide exact figures, for they are subject tochange slightly as we review our annotation work.1.3 Annotation WorkflowFour annotators are currently working on theproject.7 The annotation workflow for each por-tion of text (ca 2000 words) is the following: 1/two different annotators perform individual anno-tation of the same portion of text; 2/ the samepeople perform a crossed-correction for most ob-vious errors by the annotators; 3/ two differentproofreaders perform a second-step comparisonand deal with complex cases.2 NotaBene RDF Annotation ToolStein (2008, 165-168) has given a comprehensivespecification of what the features of the annota-tion tool should be.
Most importantly, we adoptthe principle that the software should provide aconvenient interface to manually annotate the syn-tactic relations between words and also to performcomparisons.
NotaBene RDF Annotation Tool freesoftware (still in alpha version) focuses on thosefeatures.8 An SRCMF-specific plugin has beendesigned for manual annotation and annotationcomparisons.2.1 General PresentationAs explained in (Mazziotta, forthcoming), No-taBene is an attempt to use Semantic-Web tech-niques to provide textual data with linguistic anno-tations.
This data has to be valid XML that iden-tifies every taggable token with a unique identifier(e.g.
: an @xml:id attribute) that is interpreted asa URI.
It uses RDF formalisms (Klyne and Car-roll, 2004)9 to store annotations and OWL ontolo-gies to describe terminologies (Bechhofer et al,2004).
NotaBene focuses on multiple conceptu-alisation and allows concurrent visualisations ofthe same text/annotation10.
The use of RDF ratherthan the more commonly used XML makes it eas-ier to cross several overlapping analysis withouthaving to elaborate complex jointing procedures(Loiseau, 2007).7Currently, the four annotators work part-time on the an-notation task, hence, one could say there is the equivalent oftwo full-time annotators.8It is freely available at https://sourceforge.net/projects/notabene/.
Note that the documenta-tion is still very sparse; please contact the author if you intendto use the program.9See also the current NotaBene conceptual specifica-tion http://notabene.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/notabene/trunk/doc/specification.pdf, that explains how the RDF model has been restricted.10Furthermore, it can show concurrent terminologies ap-plied to the same text, but we will not discuss it here.143Figure 1: NotaBene SRCMF Working environmentEach visualisation is associated with one ormore OWL ontologies.
The current terminologyis visible on the right panel of the application (seefig.
1, showing some SRCMF-specific classes).11Visualisations are dynamically linked with theRDF data structure, which is updated on-the-fly.2.2 SRCMF Plugin for Syntactic AnnotationFor the sake of ergonomics, it turned out to beeasier to represent syntactic structures using aconstituent-like visualisation.
By identifying thegovernor of each structure, we can use such a visu-alisation to represent a dependency graph, as thereis evidence (Robinson, 1970) of formal equiva-lence on the two descriptions ?we will discuss thislater on (see section 2.4).
Hence, the main plu-gin for syntactic annotation is a tree-like widget inwhich words are displayed vertically from top tobottom in the order of the text.
Here is an exam-ple of a fully annotated sentence to introduce theinterface:Li rois pense que par folie, Sire Tris-tran, vos aie am?
[?The king thinks thatit was madness that made me love you,Lord Tristan?]
?B?roul, in (Defourquesand Muret, 1947, v. 20)As it can be seen on the left panel in fig.
1, the textis wrapped in a hierarchy of folders that mainly11Although the figure shows a tree, the class hierarchy is agraph.
See n. 12 for some translations of the labels.represent labelled subtrees12.
Within each clause,a disc is used to visually identify the main gover-nor, whereas triangles mark its dependents.At the beginning of the annotation task, the plu-gin shows a simple list of words, which are se-lected and wrapped into folders that represent thelinguistic analysis of the text.
This can be done ei-ther by using customisable keyboard shortcuts orby pointing and clicking with the mouse.A simultaneous view of the running text, pre-serving references and punctuation, is synchro-nised with the tree widget (see at the bottom-leftcorner of fig.
1).2.3 Comparison ProceduresNotaBene?s ability to display concurrent annota-tions of the same text is used to compare the re-sults of the syntactic analysis by two annotators.It identifies structures that differ by not having thesame contents or label.
As it can be seen in fig.
2,the same structure has not been understood in thesame way by the first (who places the Apostro-phe at the main clause level) and by the secondannotator (who places it at the subordinate clauselevel).
At the application level, NotaBene simplysees that the Objet folder on the right pane con-12The tag labels translate roughly (the srcmf prefix is thenamespace of the project): Phrase ?Clause?, SujetSujet ?Sub-ject?, Objet ?Object?, Circonstant ?Adjunct?, N?udVerbal.
.
.
?Finite Verb?, Auxilie.
.
.
?Non-finite auxiliated form?, Rela-teur.
.
.
?Conjunction/preposition?, Apostrophe ?Vocative?.144Figure 3: DOT Graph ExportFigure 2: Comparison (boxes manually added)tains an additional Apostrophe and focuses on theObjet structure on the right, and the first word ofthe structure on the left.
The person who performsthe comparison can immediately choose the rightinterpretation, and correct the erroneous analysis.2.4 Export CapabilitiesThe RDF data model underlying the tree wid-get mimicks the tree structure and needs to beconverted to create a genuine dependency graph.As the tree structure identifies SRCMF-specificgovernors (formally equivalent to heads in Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar), the transfor-mation is relatively easy13.
The resulting depen-dency RDF graph can be validated against the on-tology and additional class restrictions definingthe annotation model, but this feature still needsto be implemented in NotaBene.It is possible to create as many filters as neces-sary to transform the RDF graph into other datastructures, using NotaBene as an interface.
Atfirst, we have decided to focus on two objectives:1/ corpus exploration; 2/ analysis rendering for thepurpose of human reading.13Although the description of coordination relations ?which is difficult in a dependency-based framework (Kahane,2001, 6-7)?
requires a more complex algorithm.The best syntactic corpus exploration toolwe know about is TigerSearch (Brants et al,2002).14 The TigerSearch documentation definesthe TigerXML format to represent dependency orconstituency structures.
TigerSearch corpora canbe queried using a specific formalism and displaysthe analysis in a tree-like from.TigerSearch tree display is not sufficient to rep-resent our syntactic model ?
mainly because com-plex relations involving coordinations are surim-pressed on the tree drawing, creating too manynodes to be conveniently readable.
To enhance thereadablility of the syntactic relations, we exportour RDF graph into graphviz DOT files,15 to ren-der an elegant representation of the syntactic struc-tures ?fig.
3 (node labels are self-explanatory).3 Conclusion and ?TODO?s?The use of NotaBene satisfies the annotators of theSRCMF project, providing a convenient means toadd manual annotations, compare parallel analy-ses and export data structures to other formalismsand tools.In order to increase the quality of the projectoutput, further implementations will at first dealwith: 1/ data validation, using OWL reasoners16;2/ a posteriori comparisons between POS annota-tion and syntactic annotationAcknowledgementsThe project is funded from 2009 to 2012 by theAgence Nationale de la Recherche, France and theDeutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Germany.
Wewould like to thank Brigite Antoine, Beatrice Bar-bara Bichoff, Tom Rainsford, Achim Stein andJean-Christophe Vanhalle for proofreading.14See http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/TIGER/TIGERSearch/.15http://www.graphviz.org/.16Using Integrity Constraint Validation, currently beingadded to Pellet semantic reasoner software, see http://clarkparsia.com/.145ReferencesDavid Bamman, Marco Passarotti, Roberto Busa, andGregory Crane.
2008.
The annotation guidelines ofthe latin dependency treebank and index thomisti-cus treebank: the treatment of some specific syn-tactic constructions in latin.
In Nicoletta Calzolari,Khalid Choukri, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mariani,Jan Odjik, Stelios Piperidis, and Daniel Tapias, ed-itors, Proceedings of the Sixth International Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC?08), Mar-rakech, Morocco, may.
European Language Re-sources Association (ELRA).Sean Bechhofer, Frank Van Harmelen, Jim Hendler,Ian Horrocks, Deborah L. McGuinness, Peter F.Patel-Schneider, and Lynn Andrea Stein, editors.2004.
OWL Web Ontology Language Refer-ence.
Reference.
W3C Recommendation 10 Febru-ary 2004.Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Silvia Hansen, Wolf-gang Lezius, and George Smith.
2002.
The TIGERTreebank.
In Proceedings of The First Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT2002) 20thand 21st September 2002, Sozopol, Bulgaria.L.
M. Defourques and E. Muret, editors.
1947.
B?roul.Le roman de Tristan.
Po?me du XIIe si?cle.
Cham-pion, Paris, 4 edition.C?line Guillot, Alexei Lavrentiev, and ChristianeMarchello-Nizia.
2007.
La Base de Fran?aisM?di?val (BFM): ?tats et perspectives.
In Kun-stmann and Stein (Kunstmann and Stein, 2007b),pages 143?152.Claude Hag?ge.
1999.
La structure des langues.Number 2006 in Que sais-je?
Presses Universitairesde France, Paris, 5 edition.Sylvain Kahane.
2001.
Grammaires de d?pendanceformelles et th?orie sens-texte.
In Actes TALN 2001,Tours, 2-5 juillet 2001.Graham Klyne and Jeremy J. Carroll, editors.
2004.Resource Description Framework (RDF): Conceptsand Abstract Syntax W3C Recommendation 10February 2004.Pierre Kunstmann and Achim Stein.
2007a.
Le Nou-veau Corpus d?Amsterdam.
(Kunstmann and Stein,2007b), pages 9?27.Pierre Kunstmann and Achim Stein, editors.
2007b.
LeNouveau Corpus d?Amsterdam.
Actes de l?atelier deLauterbad, 23-26 f?vrier 2006.
Steiner, Stuttgart.Gilbert Lazard.
1984.
La distinction entre nom etverbe en syntaxe et en morphologie.
Mod?les lin-guistiques, 6(1):29?39.Sylvain Loiseau.
2007.
Corpusreader: un dispositif decodage pour articuler une pluralit?
d?interpr?tations.Corpus, 6:153?186.France Martineau.
2008.
Un corpus pour l?analyse dela variation et du changement linguistique.
Corpus,7:135?155.Nicolas Mazziotta.
forthcoming.
Logiciel NotaBenepour l?annotation linguistique.
annotations et con-ceptualisations multiples.
Recherches Qualitatives.Alain Polgu?re and Igor Mel?c?uk, editors.
2009.
De-pendency in linguistic description.
John Benjamins,Amsterdam and Philadelphia.Jane Robinson.
1970.
Dependency structures andtransformational rules.
Language, 46:259?285.Achim Stein.
2008.
Syntactic annotation of OldFrench text corpora.
Corpus, 7:157?171.146
