Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Young Investigators Workshop on Computational Approaches to Languages of the Americas,pages 84?91, Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsIRASubcat, a highly customizable, language independent tool for theacquisition of verbal subcategorization information from corpusIvana Romina Altamirano and Laura Alonso i AlemanyGrupo de Procesamiento de Lenguaje NaturalSeccio?n de Ciencias de la Computacio?nFacultad de Matema?tica, Astronom?
?a y F?
?sicaUniversidad Nacional de Co?rdobaCo?rdoba, Argentinaromina.altamirano@gmail.com,alemany@famaf.unc.edu.arAbstractIRASubcat is a language-independent tool toacquire information about the subcategoriza-tion of verbs from corpus.
The tool can extractinformation from corpora annotated at vari-ous levels, including almost raw text, whereonly verbs are identified.
It can also ag-gregate information from a pre-existing lex-icon with verbal subcategorization informa-tion.
The system is highly customizable, andworks with XML as input and output format.IRASubcat identifies patterns of constituentsin the corpus, and associates patterns withverbs if their association strength is over a fre-quency threshold and passes the likelihood ra-tio hypothesis test.
It also implements a proce-dure to identify verbal constituents that couldbe playing the role of an adjunct in a pattern.Thresholds controlling frequency and identi-fication of adjuncts can be customized by theuser, or else they are given a default value.1 Introduction and MotivationCharacterizing the behavior of verbs as nuclear or-ganizers of clauses (the so-called subcategorizationinformation) is crucial to obtain deep analyses ofnatural language.
For example, it can significantlyreduce structural ambiguities in parsing (Carroll etal., 1999; Carroll and Fang, 2004), help in wordsense disambiguation or improve information ex-traction (Surdeanu et al, 2003).
However, the usualconstruction of linguistic resources for verbal sub-categorization involves many expert hours, and it isusually prone to low coverage and inconsistenciesacross human experts.Corpora can be very useful to alleviate the prob-lems of low coverage and inconsistencies.
Verbscan be characterized by their behavior in a big cor-pus of the language.
Thus, lexicographers only needto validate, correct or complete this digested infor-mation about the behavior of verbs.
Moreover, thestarting information can have higher coverage andbe more unbiased than if it is manually constructed.That?s why automatic acquisition of subcategoriza-tion frames has been an active research area sincethe mid-90s (Manning, 1993; Brent, 1993; Briscoeand Carroll, 1997).However, most of the approaches have been ad-hoc for particular languages or particular settings,like a determined corpus with a given kind of an-notation, be it manual or automatic.
To our knowl-edge, there is no system to acquire subcategorizationinformation from corpora that is flexible enough towork with different languages and levels of annota-tion of corpora.We present IRASubcat, a tool that acquires in-formation about the behaviour of verbs from cor-pora.
It is aimed to address a variety of situationsand needs, ranging from rich annotated corpora tovirtually raw text (because the tags to study can beselected in the configuration file).
The characteri-zation of linguistic patterns associated to verbs willbe correspondingly rich.
The tool allows to cus-tomize most of the aspects of its functioning, toadapt to different requirements of the users.
More-over, IRASubcat is platform-independent and opensource, available for download at http://www.irasubcat.com.ar.IRASubcat input is a corpus (in xml format) withexamples of the verbs one wants to characterize, andits output is a lexicon where each verb is associatedwith the patterns of linguistic constituents that re-flect its behavior in the given corpus, an approxima-84tion to its subcategorization frame.
Such associationis established when the verb and pattern co-occur incorpus significantly enough to pass a frequency testand a hypothesis test.In the following section we discuss some previ-ous work in the area of subcategorization acquisi-tion from corpora.
Then, Section 3 presents themain functionality of the tool, and describe its us-age.
Section 4 details the parameters that can be cus-tomized to adapt to different experimental settings.In Section 5 we outline the functionality that iden-tifies constituents that are likely to be adjuncts andnot arguments, and in Section 6 we describe the pro-cedures to determine whether a given pattern is ac-tually part of the subcategorization frame of a verb.Section 7 presents some results of applying IRASub-cat to two very different corpora.
Finally, we presentsome conclusions and the lines of future work.2 Previous WorkWe review here some previous work related to ac-quisition of subcategorization information from cor-pora, focussing on the constraints of the approachand corpora to learn with.
We specially mention ap-proaches for languages other than English.The foundational work of (Brent, 1993) was basedon plain text (2.6 million words of the Wall StreetJournal (WSJ, 1994)).
Since the corpus had no an-notation, verbs were found by heuristics.
He de-tected six frame types and filtered associations be-tween verbs and frames with the binomial hypothe-sis test.
This approach obtained 73.85% f-score inan evaluation with human judges.Also in 1993, (Ushioda et al, 1993) exploited alsothe WSJ corpus but only the part that was annotatedwith part-of-speech tags, with 600.000 words.
Hestudied also six frame types and did not distinguish-ing arguments and adjuncts.The same year, (Manning, 1993) used 4 millionwords of the New York Times (Sandhaus, ), selectedonly clauses with auxiliary verbs and automaticallyanalyzed them with a finite-state parser.
He defined19 frame types, and reported an f-score of 58.20%.Various authors developed approaches assuming afull syntactic analysis, which was usually annotatedmanually in corpora (Briscoe and Carroll, 1997;Kinyon and Prolo, 2002).
Others associated syn-tactic analyses to corpora with automatic parsers(O?Donovan et al, 2005).Various approaches were also found for languagesother than English.
For German, (Eckle-Kohler,1999) studied the behaviour of 6305 verbs on auto-matically POS-tagged corpus data.
He defined lin-guistic heuristics by regular expression queries overthe usage of 244 frame types.
(Wauschkuhn, 1999) studied 1044 German verbs.He extracted maximum of 2000 example sentencesfor each verb from a corpus, and analyzed themwith partial (as opposed to full) syntactic analysis.He found valency patterns, which were grouped inorder to extract the most frequent pattern combi-nations, resulting in a verb-frame lexicon with 42frame types.
(Schulte im Walde, 2000) worked with 18.7 mil-lion words of German corpus, found 38 frame types.She used the Duden das Stilwo?rterbuch(AG, 2001)to evaluate results and reported f-score 57,24% withPP and 62,30% without.Many other approaches have been pursued forvarious languages: (de Lima, 2002) for Portuguese,(Georgala, 2003) for Greek, (Sarkar and Zeman,2000) for Czech, (Spranger and Heid, 2003) forDutch, (Chesley and Salmon-Alt, 2006) for Frenchor (Chrupala, 2003) for Spanish, to name a few.3 General description of the toolIRASubcat takes as input a corpus in XML format.This corpus is expected to have some kind of anno-tation associated to its elements, which will enrichthe description of the patterns associated to verbs.The minimal required annotation is that verbs aremarked.
If no other information is available, theform of words will be used to build the patterns.
Ifthe corpus has rich annotation for its elements, thesystem can build the patterns with the value of at-tributes or with a combination of them, and also withcombinations with lexical items.
The only require-ments are that verbs are marked, and that all linguis-tic units to be considered to build the patterns aresiblings in the XML tree.The output of IRASubcat is a lexicon, also inXML format, where each of the verbs under inspec-tion is associated to a set of subcategorization pat-terns.
A given pattern is associated to a given verb85if the evidence found in the corpus passes certaintests.
Thresholds for these tests are defined by theuser, so that precision can be priorized over recall orthe other way round.
In all cases, information aboutthe evidence found and the result of each test is pro-vided, so that it can be easily assessed whether thethreshold for each test has the expected effects, andit can be modified accordingly.The lexicon also provides information about fre-quencies of occurrence for verbs, patterns, and theirco-occurrences in corpus.Moreover, IRASubcat is capable of integratingthe output lexicon with a pre-existing one, merg-ing information about verbs and patterns with infor-mation that had been previously extracted, possiblyfrom a different corpus or even from a hand-builtlexicon.
The only requirement is that the lexicon isin the same format as IRASubcat output lexicon.4 A highly customizable toolIRASubcat has been designed to be adaptable in avariety of settings.
The user can set the conditionsfor many aspects of the tool, in order to extract dif-ferent kinds of information for different representa-tional purposes or from corpora with different kindsof annotation.
For example, the system accepts awide range of levels of annotation in the input cor-pus, and it is language independent.
To guaranteethat any language can be dealt with, the corpus needsto be codified in UTF-8 format, in which virtuallyany existing natural language can be codified.If the user does not know how to customize theseparameters, she can resort to the default values thatare automatically provided by the system for each ofthem.
The only information that needs to be speci-fied in any case is the name of the tag marking verbs,the name of the parent tag for the linguistic units thatcharacterize patterns and, of course, the input cor-pus.The parameters of the system are as follows:?
The user can provide a list of verbs to be de-scribed, so that any other verb will not be con-sidered.
If no list is provided, all words markedas verb in the corpus will be described.?
The scope of patterns can be specified as a win-dow of n words around the words marked asverbs, where n is a number specified by theuser.
It can also be specified that all elementsthat are siblings of the verb in the XML tree areconsidered, which is equivalent to consideringall elements in the scope of the clause, if that isthe parent node of the verb in an annotated cor-pus.
By default, a window of 3 sibling nodes ateach side of the verb is considered.?
It can be specified that patterns are completedby a dummy symbol if the context of occur-rence of the verb does not provide enough lin-guistic elements to fill the specified windowlength, for example, at the end of a sentence.By default, no dummy symbol is used.?
It can be specified whether the order of occur-rence of linguistic units should be taken intoaccount to characterize the pattern or not, de-pending of the meaning of word order in thelanguage under study.
By default, order is notconsidered.?
We can provide a list of the attributes of lin-guistic units that we want to study, for example,syntactic function, morphological category, etc.Attributes should be expressed as an XML at-tribute of the unit.
It can also be specified thatno attribute of the unit is considered, but onlyits content, which is usually the surface form ofthe unit.
By default, an attribute named ?sint?will be considered.?
We can specify whether the content of linguis-tic units will be considered to build patterns.As in the previous case, the content is usuallythe surface form of the unit (lexical form).
Bydefault, content is not considered.?
A mark describing the position of the verb canbe introduced in patterns.
By default it is notconsidered, to be coherent with the default op-tion of ignoring word order.?
It can be specified that, after identifying possi-ble adjuncts, patterns with the same argumentsare collapsed into the same pattern, with alltheir characterizing features (number of occur-rences, etc.).
By default, patterns are not col-lapsed.?
The number of iterations that are carried out onpatterns to identify adjuncts can be customized,86by default it is not considered because by de-fault patterns are not collapsed.?
The user can specify a minimal number of oc-currences of a verb to be described.
By default,the minimal frequency is 0, so all verbs that oc-cur in the corpus are described.?
A minimal number of occurrences of a patterncan also be specified, with the default as 0.?
The user can specify whether the Log-Likelihood Ratio hypothesis test will be ap-plied to test whether the association between averb and a pattern cannot be considered a prod-uct of chance.
By defect, the test is used (andthe output will be 90, 95, 99 or 99.5 when theco-ocurrence have that confiability) .5 Identification of adjunctsOne of the most interesting capabilities of IRASub-cat is the identification of possible adjuncts.
Ad-juncts are linguistic units that do not make part ofthe core of a subcategorization pattern (Fillmore,1968).
They are optional constituents in the con-stituent structure governed by a verb.
Since they areoptional, we assume they can be recognized becausethe same pattern can occur with or without themwithout a significant difference.
IRASubcat imple-ments a procedure to identify these units by their op-tionality, described in what follows.
An example ofthis procedure is shown in Figure 1.First, all patterns of a verb are represented in atrie.
A trie is a tree-like structure where patterns arerepresented as paths in the trie.
In our case, the rootis empty and each node represents a constituent of apattern, so that a pattern is represented by concate-nating all nodes that are crossed when following apath from the root.
Each node is associated with anumber expressing the number of occurrences of thepattern that is constructed from the root to that node.Constituents are ordered by frequency, so that morefrequent constituents are closer to the root.In this structure, it is easy to identify constituentsthat are optional, because they are topologically lo-cated at the leaves of the trie and the number of oc-currences of the optional node is much smaller thanthe number of occurrences of its immediately pre-ceding node.We have experimented with different ratios be-tween the frequency of the pattern with and withoutthe constituent to identify adjuncts.
We have foundthat adjuncts are usually characterized by occurringin leaves of the trie at least for 80% of the patternsof the verb.Once a constituent is identified as an adjunct, itis removed from all patterns that contain it withinthe verb that is being characterized at the moment.A new trie is built without the adjunct, and so newadjuncts may be identified.
This procedure can be it-erated until no constituent is found to be optional, oruntil a user-defined number of iterations is reached.When an adjunct is removed, the original pat-tern is preserved, so that the user can see whethera given pattern occurred with constituents that havebeen classified as adjuncts, and precisely which con-stituents.When this data structure is created, the sequentialordering of constituents is lost, in case it had beenpreserved in the starting patterns.
If the mark sig-nalling the position of the verb had been introduced,it is also lost.
However, order and position of theverb can be recovered in the final patterns, after ad-juncts have been identified.6 Associating patterns to verbsOne of the critical aspects of subcategorization ac-quisition is the association of verbs and patterns.How often must a pattern occur with a verb to makepart of the subcategorization frame of the verb?
Todeal with this problem, different approaches havebeen taken, going from simple co-occurrence countto various kinds of hypothesis testing (Korhonen etal., 2000).To determine whether a verb and a pattern are as-sociated, IRASubcat provides a co-occurrence fre-quency threshold, that can be tuned by the user, anda hypothesis test, the Likelihood Ratio test (Dun-ning, 1993).
We chose to implement this test, andnot others like the binomial that have been exten-sively used in subcategorization acquisition, becausethe Likelihood Ratio is specially good at modelingunfrequent events.To perform this test, the null hypothesis is that thedistribution of an observed pattern ?Mj?
is indepen-dent of of the distribution of verb ?Vi?.87Figure 1: Example of application of the procedure to identify adjuncts.1.
A starting set of patterns:[NP DirObj PP-with], [NP DirObj], [NP DirObj], [NP DirObjPP-with],[NP DirObj] y [NP DirObj PP-for]2.
Pattern constituents are ordered by frequency:NP > DirObj > PP-with > PP-for3.
Constituents in patterns are ordered by their relative frequency:[NP DirObj PP-with][NP DirObj][NP DirObj][NP DirObj PP-with][NP DirObj][NP DirObj PP-for]4.
A trie is built with patterns:[NP DirObj] ->3[NP DirObj PP-with] ->2[NP DirObj PP-for] ->15.
Leafs in the trie are ?DirObj?,?PP-with?
and ?PP-for?.
Since DirObj also occurs in the trie in aposition other than leaf, it will not be considered as an adjunct in this iteration.
In contrast, bothPP-with and PP-for fulfill the conditions to be considered adjuncts, so we prune the patterns the trie,which will now have the single pattern, which forms a trie with 2 adjuncts (with information aboutthe number of occurrences of each adjunct constituent):[NP DirObj {PP-with:1 PP-for:2}]6.
If the trie has been modified in this iteration, we go back to 2.
If no modification has been operated,the procedure ends.88Moreover, the user can also specify a minimumnumber of occurrences of a verb to be taken intoconsideration, thus ruling out verbs for which thereis not enough evidence in the corpus to obtain reli-able subcategorization information.7 Examples of applicationsWe have applied IRASubcat to two very differentcorpora in order to test its functionalities.We have applied it to the SenSem corpus(Castello?n et al, 2006), a corpus with 100 sentencesfor each of the 250 most frequent verbs of Span-ish, manually annotated with information of verbalsense, syntactical function and semantic role of sen-tence constituents, among other information.
Fromall the available information, we specified as inputparameter for IRASubcat to consider only the syn-tactic function of sentence constituents.
Thus, theexpected output was the syntactic aspect of subcat-egorization frames of verbs.
We worked with theverbal sense as the unit.We compared the patterns associated to each ver-bal sense by IRASubcat with the subcategorizationframes manually associated to the verbs at the a lex-ical data base of SenSem verbs1.
We manually in-spected the results for the 20 most frequent verbalsenses.
Results can be seen at Table 1.
We foundthat the frequency threshold was the best filter to as-sociate patterns and verbs, obtaining an f-measureof 74%.
When hypothesis tests were used as a crite-rion to filter out associations of patterns with verbalsenses, performance dropped, as can be seen in thelower rows of Table 1.We also applied IRASubcat to an unannotatedcorpus of Russian.
The corpus was automaticallyPOS-tagged with TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994).
Weapplied IRASubcat to work with parts of speech tobuild the patterns.We manually inspected the patterns associated toprototypical intransitive (?sleep?
), transitive (?eat?
)and ditransitive (?give?)
verbs.
We found that pat-terns which were more strongly associated to verbscorresponded to their prototypical behaviour.
Forexample, the patterns associated to the verb ?eat?reflect the presence of a subject and a direct object:1The lexical data base of SenSem verbs can be found athttp://grial.uab.es/adquisicio/.Pattern occurrences % LikelihoodRatio Test[?V?, ?Nn?]
5 99[?V?, ?C?]
5 95[?V?, ?R?]
4 did not pass[?V?, ?Nn?, ?C?, ?Q?]
3 95[?V?, ?V?, ?Nn?, ?Nn?]
3 99[?V?, ?Nn?, ?Na?]
3 99,5[?Nn?, ?C?]
3 90[?V?, ?Nn?, ?Nn?]
3 99[?V?, ?R?, ?Q?]
2 95[?V?, ?Nn?, ?An?]
2 99For more details on evaluation, see (Altamirano,2009).8 Conclusions and Future WorkWe have presented a highly flexible tool to acquireverbal subcategorization information from corpus,independently of the language and level of annota-tion of the corpus.
It is capable of identifying ad-juncts and performs different tests to associate pat-terns with verbs.
Thresholds for these tests can beset by the user, as well as a series of other sys-tem parameters.
Moreover, the system is platform-independent and open-source2.We are currently carrying out experiments to as-sess the utility of the tool with two very differentcorpora: the SenSem corpus of Spanish, where sen-tences have been manually annotated with informa-tion about the category, function and role of the ar-guments of each verb, and also a raw corpus of Rus-sian, for which only automatic part-of-speech tag-ging is available.
Preliminary results indicate that,when parameters are properly set, IRASubcat is ca-pable of identifying reliable subcategorization infor-mation in corpus.As future work, we plan to integrate evaluationcapabilities into the tool, so that it can provide pre-cision and recall figures if a gold standard subcate-gorization lexicon is provided.AcknowledgmentsThis research has been partially funded by projectsKNOW, TIN2006-15049-C03-01 and Representa-tion of Semantic Knowledge TIN2009-14715-C04-03 of the Spanish Ministry of Education and Cul-2IRASubcat is available for download at http://www.irasubcat.com.ar89applied filter Precision Recall F-measureFrequency .79 .70 .74likelihood ratio 90% .42 .46 .39likelihood ratio 95% .38 .42 .32likelihood ratio 99% .31 .36 .22likelihood ratio 99.5% .25 .28 .14Table 1: Performance of IRASubcat to acquire subcategorization information from the SenSem corpus, for the 20most frequent verbal senses, as compared with manual association of subcategorization patterns with verbal senses.Performance with different filters is detailed: only the most frequent patterns are considered, or only patterns passinga hypothesis test are considered.ture, and by project PAE-PICT-2007-02290, fundedby the National Agency for the Promotion of Sci-ence and Technology in Argentina.ReferencesBibliographisches Institut & F. A. Brockhaus AG, editor.2001.
Duden das Stilwo?rterbuch.
Dudenverlag.I.
Romina Altamirano.
2009.
Irasubcat: Un sistemapara adquisicio?n automa?tica de marcos de subcatego-rizacio?n de piezas le?xicas a partir de corpus.
Master?sthesis, Facultad de Matema?tica, Astronom?
?a y F?
?sica,Universidad Nacional de Co?rdoba, Argentina.Michael R. Brent.
1993.
From grammar to lexicon: un-supervised learning of lexical syntax.
Comput.
Lin-guist., 19(2):243?262.Ted Briscoe and John Carroll.
1997.
Automatic extrac-tion of subcategorization from corpora.
pages 356?363.J.
Carroll and A. Fang.
2004.
The automatic acquisitionof verb subcategorisations and their impact on the per-formance of an HPSG parser.
In Proceedings of the 1stInternational Joint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing (IJCNLP), pages 107?114.J.
Carroll, G. Minnen, and T. Briscoe.
1999.
Corpusannotation for parser evaluation.
In Proceedings of theEACL-99 Post-conference Workshop on Linguistical lyInterpreted Corpora, pages 35?41, Bergen, Norway.Irene Castello?n, Ana Ferna?ndez-Montraveta, Glo`riaVa?zquez, Laura Alonso, and Joanan Capilla.
2006.The SENSEM corpus: a corpus annotated at the syntac-tic and semantic level.
In 5th International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2006).Paula Chesley and Susanne Salmon-Alt.
2006.
Au-tomatic extraction of subcategorization frames forfrench.Grzegorz Chrupala.
2003.
Acquiring verb subcatego-rization from spanish corpora.
Master?s thesis, Uni-versitat de Barcelona.Erika de Lima.
2002.
The automatic acquisitionof lexical information from portuguese text corpora.Master?s thesis, Institut fu?r Maschinelle Sprachverar-beitung, Universita?t Stuttgart.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statisticsof surprise and coincidence.
COMPUTATIONAL LIN-GUISTICS.Judith Eckle-Kohler.
1999.
Linguistic knowledge for au-tomatic lexicon acquisition from german text corpora.Charles J. Fillmore.
1968.
The case for case.
In E. Bachand R. T. Harms, editors, Universals in Linguistic The-ory.
Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, New York.Effi Georgala.
2003.
A statistical grammar model formodern greek: The context-free grammar.Alexandra Kinyon and Carlos A. Prolo.
2002.
Identify-ing verb arguments and their syntactic function in thepenn treebank.
pages 1982?1987.Anna Korhonen, Genevieve Gorrell, and Diana Mc-Carthy.
2000.
Statistical filtering and subcategoriza-tion frame acquisition.
In Proceedings of the 2000Joint SIGDAT conference on Empirical methods innatural language processing and very large corpora,pages 199?206, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Christopher D. Manning.
1993.
Automatic acquisitionof a large subcategorization dictionary from corpora.pages 235?242.Ruth O?Donovan, Michael Burke, Aoife Cahill, Josef vanGenabith, and Andy Way.
2005.
Large-scale induc-tion and evaluation of lexical resources from the penn-ii and penn-iii treebanks.
volume 31, pages 329?365.Evan Sandhaus, editor.
New York Times.Anoop Sarkar and Daniel Zeman.
2000.
Automatic ex-traction of subcategorization frames for czech.
pages691?697.H.
Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part?of?speech taggingusing decision trees.
In Proceedings of the Conferenceon New Methods in Language Processing, pages 44?49, Manchester, UK.90Sabine Schulte im Walde.
2000.
Clustering verbs se-mantically according to their alternation behaviour.
InCOLING?00, pages 747?753.Kristina Spranger and Ulrich Heid.
2003.
A dutch chun-ker as a basis for the extraction of linguistic knowl-edge.Mihai Surdeanu, Sanda Harabagiu, John Williams, andPaul Aarseth.
2003.
Using predicate arguments struc-tures for information extraction.
In Proceedings of the41st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL 2003).Akira Ushioda, David A. Evans, Ted Gibson, and AlexWaibel.
1993.
The automatic acquisition of frequen-cies of verb subcategorization frames from tagged cor-pora.
pages 95?106.Oliver Wauschkuhn.
1999.
Automatische extraktion vonverbvalenzen aus deutschen text korpora.
Master?sthesis, Universita?t Stuttgart.WSJ, editor.
1994.
Wall Street Journal.91
