Proceedings of the 11th Meeting of the ACL-SIGMORPHON, ACL 2010, pages 54?62,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuantitative evaluation of competing syllable parsesJason A. ShawNew York University/Haskins LaboratoriesNew York, NY/New Haven, CT, USAjason.shaw@nyu.eduAdamantios I. GafosNew York University/Haskins LaboratoriesNew York, NY/New Haven, CT, USAadamantios.gafos@nyu.eduAbstractThis paper develops computational tools forevaluating competing syllabic parses of a pho-nological string on the basis of temporal pat-terns in speech production data.
This is doneby constructing models linking syllable parsesto patterns of coordination between articulato-ry events.
Data simulated from different syl-labic parses are evaluated against experimentaldata from American English and MoroccanArabic, two languages claimed to parse similarstrings of segments into different syllabicstructures.
Results implicate a tautosyllabicparse of initial consonant clusters in Englishand a heterosyllabic parse of initial clusters inArabic, in accordance with theoretical work onthe syllable structure of these languages.
It isfurther demonstrated that the model can cor-rectly diagnose syllable structure even whenpreviously proposed phonetic heuristics forsuch structure do not clearly point to the cor-rect diagnosis.1 IntroductionLanguages are claimed to differ in how word-initial consonant clusters are parsed into higherlevel phonological structures.
For example, Eng-lish (Kahn, 1976) and Georgian (Vogt, 1971) areclaimed to parse initial clusters into complex syl-lable onsets.
In contrast, Berber and MoroccanArabic are claimed to parse initial clusters hete-rosyllabically, [#C.CV-], because the syllablestructure of these languages allows at most oneconsonant (simplex onset) per syllable onset(Dell & Elmedlaoui, 2002).Of direct relevance to these claims are patternsof temporal stability in the production of initialclusters.
In those cases where speech productiondata are available, languages that allow complexonsets exhibit patterns of temporal stability thatdiffer from languages that allow only syllableswith simplex syllable onsets.These observed temporal differences havebeen quantified in terms of the relative stabilityof intervals as calculated across words beginningwith one, two and three initial consonants(Browman & Goldstein, 1988; Byrd, 1995;Honorof & Browman, 1995; Shaw, Gafos,Hoole, & Zeroual, 2009).
Figure 1 schematizestemporal differences between simplex and com-plex onsets.
The figure shows three temporal in-tervals left-delimited by landmarks in the conso-nant cluster, the left edge of the cluster, the cen-ter of the cluster and the right edge of the cluster,and right-delimited by a common anchor point.Figure 1.
Schematic representation of three in-tervals, left edge to anchor, center to anchor andright edge to anchor, delineated by points in aninitial single consonant or consonant cluster anda common anchor (A).
The alignment schema onthe left/right represents experimentally observedtemporal manifestations of the simplex/complexonset parse.
Such patterns have been used asphonetic heuristics in diagnosing syllable struc-ture in experimental data.When clusters are parsed into simplex syllableonsets (Figure 1: left), the duration of the rightedge to anchor interval is unperturbed by the ad-dition of consonants to the word.
Consequently,this interval remains stable across #CVX and54#CCVX words.
In contrast, when clusters areparsed into a complex onset (Figure 1: right), theduration of the right edge to anchor intervalshrinks to make room for the addition of a con-sonant to the syllable.
Under this temporalalignment schema, the center to anchor intervalremains more stable across #CVX and #CCVXwords than both the right edge to anchor intervaland the left edge to anchor interval.Experimental results showing temporal pat-terns consistent with the schema on the right sideof Figure 1 include Browman and Goldstein(1988), Honorof and Browman (1995), and Ma-rin and Pouplier (2008) on American English,Goldstein, Chitoran, & Selkirk (2007) on Geor-gian and Hermes, Grice, Muecke and Niemann(2008) on Italian.
Results showing the temporalpattern on the left side of Figure 1 includeGoldstein et al (2007) on Berber, Shaw et al(2009) on Moroccan Arabic and Hermes et al(2008) on Italian.We briefly review representative quantitativeresults illustrating the different temporal organi-zations in Figure 1.
For a language with complexonsets, Browman and Goldstein (1988) show thatthe standard deviation calculated across Englishword sets such as pot~sot~spot~lot~plot~splot issmaller for the center to anchor interval, 15.8 ms,than for the left edge to anchor interval, 37.7 ms,and the right edge to anchor interval, 33.6 ms. Incontrast, for a simplex onset language, Shaw etal.
(2009) show that across similar MoroccanArabic word sets, e.g., bati~sbati, the right edgeto anchor interval has a lower standard deviation,14 ms, than the center to anchor interval, 27 ms,and the left edge to anchor interval, 77 ms.Although the experimental work reviewedabove shows that stability comparisons amongthe right edge to anchor, center to anchor and leftedge to anchor intervals can provide good heuris-tics for testing syllabification hypotheses in ex-perimental data, such heuristics stated in terms ofinequalities are known to break down undersome conditions.
For example, simulations witha model reported in Shaw et al (2009) demon-strated that when the overall variability in theintervals is high, the simplex onset parse cangenerate intervals exhibiting stability reversalswhereby the center to anchor interval is morestable than the right/left edge to anchor interval(contra the heuristic which states that the rightedge to anchor interval should be the most stable;again, see Figure 1: left).
This result indicates thefrailty of phonetic heuristics in the form of in-equalities, e.g.
a simplex onset parse implies thatthe right edge to anchor interval is more stablethan the center to anchor interval and the leftedge to anchor interval.
Such heuristics may betoo coarse or even in some cases misleading indistinguishing competing syllabic parses usingexperimental data.This paper advances a quantitative method forevaluating competing syllable parses that aims toimprove on previously proposed phonetic heuris-tics and, by doing so, sharpen the interpretationof temporal stability patterns in terms of syllabicstructure.
In mediating between phonologicaltheory and experimental data, the computationalmodel makes it possible to discover syllabifica-tion rules from phonetic patterns.
The modelprovides a new understanding of languages withknown syllable structure and the analytical toolsto deduce syllabification rules in less-studiedlanguages.2 ModelThe general plan is to simulate data from modelsencoding competing syllabic parses, to quantifyin the simulated data the pattern of stability inthe intervals shown in Figure 1, and to evaluatethe goodness of fit between the pattern of stabili-ty in the simulated data and the pattern of stabili-ty in experimental data.
Our modeling paradigmcapitalizes on structurally revealing temporalpatterns in experimental data but improves onpast work by modeling competing syllabic struc-tures (both simplex and complex onset parses ofinitial clusters) and replacing hypotheses statedin the form of inequalities with quantitative in-dices of goodness of fit between syllable parsesand experimental data.Given a string of consonants and vowels, e.g.CCV, the models map the simplex and complexonset parse of that string to distinct coordinationtopologies.
The coordination topologies reflectthe temporal relations underlying the segmentalsequence (Gafos, 2002: p. 316).
Differences intemporal structure at this level yield the distincttemporal alignment patterns schematized in Fig-ure 1.Figure 2 shows how the syllable parse, simp-lex or complex, determines the relative temporalalignment of the segments involved.
The boxesat the bottom of the figure (V rectangles)represent the temporal extent of the syllable nuc-leus, the vowel, which depends on the syllableparse.
On a simplex onset parse (Figure 2a) thevowel is aligned to the midpoint of the imme-diately prevocalic consonant regardless of the55number of preceding consonants.
On a complexonset parse (Figure 2b) the vowel is aligned tothe midpoint of the entire cluster of prevocalicconsonants.
These temporal alignment schemashave been proposed to underlie the experimentalresults we reviewed in Section 1.The model simulates the temporal organiza-tion of words with one, two, and sometimes threeinitial consonant clusters on the basis of a proba-bilistic interpretation of the temporal structureencoded in the syllable parse (simplex or com-plex).
In addition, the model has three phoneticparameters, kp, kipi, and V, which determine, re-spectively, consonant plateau duration, the dura-tion between consonant plateaus, and vowel du-ration.
These latter parameters can be set usingestimates from the phonetic record.As summarized in Figure 2, word simulationproceeds from the immediately prevocalic con-sonant, nC  .
The timestamp of the release ofthis consonant, elRnC , is drawn from a Gaussiandistribution.
The timestamp of the achievementof target of this consonant, TarnC , is determinedby subtracting consonant plateau duration, kp,from elRnC and adding an error term.
Additionalprevocalic consonants, e.g.
C1 in #C1C2V, aredetermined with reference to the immediatelypreceding consonant.
For example, the time-stamp of the release of 1-nC ,elRnC 1- , is deter-mined by subtracting the inter-plateau interval,kipi, from TarnC and adding a noise term.
As notedabove, the alignment of the vowel relative to theprevocalic consonant(s) is dictated by the sylla-ble parse.Once the temporal structure of the input seg-mental strings was generated, the stability ofeach target interval, the left edge to anchor, cen-ter to anchor and right edge to anchor intervalwas calculated across words in the simulated da-ta.
For these intervals, the offset of the vowelwas used as the anchor point.In light of past work indicating that phoneticheuristics for syllable structure may change asthe level of variability in the data increases(Shaw et al, 2009), we also manipulated the va-riability of the simulated intervals.
We did thisby varying the standard deviation of the voweloffset (from 0 to 70 ms in 15 discrete 5 ms in-crements such that anchors 1, 2, 3?15 have astandard deviation of 0 ms, 5 ms, 10 ms?70 ms,respectively).
Since the vowel offset serves as ananchor in right-delimiting all of the measuredintervals, increasing the standard deviation ofthis point is one way to increase the level of va-riability in all of the simulated intervals uniform-ly.
This effectively allows the level of variabilityin simulated data to match the level of variabilityin experimental data.Figure 2: Summary of word simulation in themodel.
Consonant landmarks are generated fromthe release of the immediately prevocalic conso-nant.
The alignment of the vowel is determinedby the syllable parse (simplex or complex).To sum up the central idea, the task of evaluat-ing syllable parses with experimental data hasbeen formulated here as the task of fitting ab-stract coordination topologies to the experimen-tal data.
This fitting can be expressed using twotypes of variables, coordination topologies andanchor variability.
In the study of biologicalcoordination and complex systems more general-ly, these two variables correspond respectively tothe so-called essential and non-essential va-riables describing the behavior of complex sys-tems (Kugler, Kelso, & Turvey, 1980: p. 13).Essential variables specify the qualitative formof the system under study.
For us, this corres-ponds to the syllabic parse of the phonologicalstring.
The fundamental hypothesis entailed inpositing an abstract phonological organizationisomorphic to syllable structure is that a syllableparse is a macroscopic organization uniformacross a variegated set of segmental identities,lexical statistics and rate conditions, e.g.
?plea?,?tree?, ?glee?
are single syllables independent ofspeech rate, frequency or phonotactic probability(see Catford 1977: p. 13 on ?phonologicalform?
).All of the above factors, however, have leftimprints on the articulatory patterns registered inthe experimental data.
Crucially, we do not knowand it may not be possible to predict for any giv-en stimulus how each such factor or combination56of factors has affected the intervals quantified.Taken together, then, these and other yet un-known factors have introduced noise in the inter-vals that will be measured.
Therefore, in formu-lating the modeling problem of diagnosing sylla-ble structure in experimental data, we let varia-bility be one of the non-essential variables mani-pulated in the fitting process.
The anchor offers aconvenient location for introducing this variabili-ty into the intervals.
In the discussion that fol-lows, the non-essential variable of anchor indexwill be used to refer to the amount of variabilityintroduced into the intervals through the anchor.3 Syllable parse evaluationOur models allow syllabic parses of the samestring to be compared directly and evaluatedquantitatively by determining which parse resultsin a better fit to the data.As an index of interval stability, we employthe relative standard deviation of the three inter-vals shown in Figure 1, calculated across sets ofwords with one, two, and sometimes three initialconsonants.
Relative standard deviation, hence-forth RSD, is calculated by dividing the standarddeviation of an interval by its mean duration.Substantive reasons for using RSD as a depen-dent variable and not the standard deviation ormean duration of the intervals are described, re-spectively, in Shaw et al (2009: p. 203) andShaw (2010: p. 111-112).Model performance was evaluated on the basisof two test statistics: the R2 statistic and the Fstatistic.
The R2 statistic provides a measure ofgoodness of fit capable of detecting gradient im-provement (or degradation) in model perfor-mance as a function of parameter values.
The Fstatistic, on the other hand, is used to evaluatemodel performance in the following way.
Hits ormisses for each pairing of simulated RSDs anddata RSDs will be determined based upon p val-ues generated from the F statistic.
The criterionof p < .01 will be interpreted as successful rejec-tion of the null hypothesis (that the RSD of allintervals is equal) and constitute a hit while fail-ure to reject the null hypothesis constitutes amiss.
This method of interpreting the F statisticprovides a direct way to evaluate model perfor-mance for each run of the simulation.
Acrossmultiple runs of the simulation, the ratio of hitsto total runs (hits + misses) provides a hit ratewhich summarizes the performance of a syllableparse in matching the experimental data.This method of model evaluation has a con-ceptual antecedent in other work in probabilisticgrammar.
The hit rate as described above plays asimilar role in model evaluation as the confi-dence scores employed in Albright and Hayes(2003).
The probabilistic rules of English pasttense formation developed in that paper are asso-ciated with a reliability index.
Albright andHayes (2003) refer to this as a raw confidencescore.
The raw confidence score of a rule is thelikelihood that the rule applies when its envi-ronment is met.
The score is the ratio of thenumber of times that a particular rule applies,hits, by the number of times in which the envi-ronment for the rule is present in the data, therule?s scope.
For example, the rule for the Eng-lish past tense [?]
?
[?
]/ {l,r}___?
correctly de-rives forms such as sprung from spring and flungfrom fling, but makes the wrong prediction,brung and not brought, for bring.
Of the 4253verbs employed in the Albright and Hayes(2003) learning set, the environment of thespring-sprung rule occurs 9 times and the ruleapplies correctly in 6 of those cases yielding araw confidence score of .667.
In contrast, themost general rule for the English past tense ?
?d / X ____ has a scope identical to the size of thedata set, 4253, and applies in 4034 cases yieldinga raw confidence score of .949.
In the case athand, that of syllable structure, the hit rate pro-posed above plays a similar role to that of theconfidence score.
It provides a simple statisticsummarizing the fit of a syllable parse to data.The value of the non-essential variable (anc-hor index) that maximizes the R2 statistic is alsoinformative in evaluating syllable structure.When the syllable parse is correct, then largeamounts of noise added to the intervals may beharmful, pushing the model output away frompatterns dictated by the essential variable.
On theother hand, when the syllable parse is wrong,then increases in noise may improve model per-formance by pushing the intervals in the direc-tion of the correct syllable parse on some trials.Since noise is inserted into the intervals throughthe anchor, comparing the anchor indices thatmaximize R2 may be informative in evaluatingsyllable parses.
A lower anchor index indicates abetter-fitting syllable parse.The F and R2 statistics used to provide quan-titative evaluation of syllabic structure as de-scribed above are obtained by plotting RSDsmeasured in the data (x-axis) against correspond-ing RSDs simulated by the model (y-axis), and57fitting a regression line to these coordinates us-ing the least squares method.
A representativeplot is shown in Figure 3.
The x-axis shows theRSD of the three intervals of interest for the bul-ha~sbulha~ksbulha triad as reported in Shaw etal.
(2009).
These are plotted against RSDs simu-lated by the model given a simplex onset parseand different levels of anchor variability.
Forsimplicity in presentation, just four of the fifteenanchors simulated are shown in the figure.
Thestandard deviation of these representative anc-hors is as follows: anchor 1 = 0 ms, anchor 7 =30 ms, anchor 11 = 50 ms, and anchor 14 = 65ms.Figure 3 shows that R2 is highest when thesimplex onset parse is paired with anchor 7.
Atthis level of anchor variability, the simplex onsetparse provides a perfect fit to the data.
At bothlower (anchor 1) and higher (anchor 11) levels ofanchor variability, the fit to the data is degraded.Figure 3.
Fit between model and data.
The RSDof three intervals in the data (x-axis) are plottedagainst the RSD of simulated intervals (y-axis) atdifferent levels of anchor variability (anchor 1,anchor 7, anchor 11, anchor 14).As illustrated in Figure 3, model performanceis assessed by calculating the regression line onthe basis of all three measured intervals at once.In doing so, the regression line captures the rela-tionship between different measured intervals, orthe pattern of interval stability.
Since it is not theabsolute value of the RSD of an interval but ra-ther the relations between the RSDs of differentintervals that is of theoretical interest, this is animportant aspect of the fitting procedure.For simulations reported below, the phoneticparameters discussed around Figure 2 are basedon typical values for the languages under consid-eration.
For American English, the values ofthese parameters used in the simulations were: kp= 45 ms; kipi = 0 ms, and V = 230 ms.
The errorterm, e, associated with each consonantal land-mark has a standard deviation of 14 ms. For Mo-roccan Arabic, the parameter values were:  kp =42 ms; kipi = 66 ms, V = 196 ms.
The error termwas set to 20 ms.
The results below are based on1000 runs of the simulation for each word set.4 ResultsThe simpex and complex onset parses were eva-luated against three corpora using the proceduredescribed above.
The first two corpora are re-ported in Browman and Goldstein (1988) andShaw et al (2009) and provide relevant data onAmerican English and Moroccan Arabic, respec-tively.
Each of these studies reports articulatorydata on just one speaker.
The third corpus is asubset of the Wisconsin X-ray MicrobeamSpeech Production Database (Westbury, 1994).The sample analyzed here contains data fromthirty-three speakers of American English.4.1 American English (single speaker)Our first American English data set draws fromwork of Browman and Goldstein (1988) whichprovides measurements of the stability of threerelevant temporal intervals, left edge to anchor,right edge to anchor, and center to anchor, calcu-lated over the following word set: [p?t], [s?t],[l?t], [sp?t], [spl?t], [pl?t].
Interval stability wasreported in terms of the standard deviation ofeach interval calculated across the word set.In order to make these results directly compa-rable to those for Moroccan Arabic to be dis-cussed in the next section, the relative standarddeviation (RSD) of the English productions wascalculated by dividing the standard deviation ofeach interval by the mean of that interval.
Al-though Browman and Goldstein (1988) do notreport the mean duration of the intervals, theyprovide a figure for each word and a scale (1 cm= 135 ms) for the figures allowing the relevantintervals to be measured.
For each word, the du-ration of the three intervals of interest was meas-ured from the figure and the standard deviationof the intervals was calculated across words.
Theresulting RSD values are shown in Table 1.The RSDs from the data were compared tovalues output from model simulations based on asimplex onset parse, e.g., [sp.l?t]~[p.l?t]~[l?t],and a complex onset parse, e.g.,[spl?t]~[pl?t]~[l?t], of the target strings.
One runof the simulation generates ten repetitions of58each of three word types, i.e., words beginningwith one, two and three initial consonants.
Thesewords are generated based on a value for the es-sential variable (syllable structure) and a range ofvalues of the non-essential variable (anchor in-dex).pot~sot~spotlot~plot~splotInterval statisticsLE-A CC-A RE-Amean 267 197 146SD 37.7 15.8 33.6RSD 14.0% 8.0% 23.0%Table 1: The mean, standard deviation, and rela-tive standard deviation of three intervals, leftedge to anchor (LE-A), center to anchor (CC-A),right edge to anchor (RE-A), calculated acrossproductions of pot, sot, spot, lot, plot, and splotby one speaker of American English.The hit rate for the complex onset parse was95.5% compared to just 57.7% for the simplexonset parse.
This indicates that the complex onsetparse provides a better fit to this data than thesimplex onset parse.
Moreover, the anchor indexthat maximizes R2 for the complex onset parse islower (anchor 3) than for the simplex parse (anc-hor 12).
This further indicates that the complexonset parse outperforms the simplex onset parseon this data.4.2 Moroccan Arabic (single speaker)The results above indicate that the complex onsetparse provides a better fit to the English datathan the simplex onset parse.
This section eva-luates Moroccan Arabic data against these samesyllabic parses.
The data come from Shaw et al(2009) which reports the RSD of the intervals ofinterest for seven word sets containing dyads ortriads differing only in the number of initial con-sonants, e.g.
bulha~sbulha~ksbulha.
The wordsets and the reported RSD of the intervals aresummarized in Table 2.For each word set, the model simulated cor-responding word types.
That is, for triads, e.g.,bulha~sbulha~ksbulha, the model simulated 10repetitions of words beginning with one, two,and three initial consonants, and, for dyads, e.g.tab~ktab, 10 repetitions of words beginning withone and two consonants.
The model simulatedword sets under each of the competing syllabicparses and evaluated the fit of each syllabic parseto the experimental data.The resulting hit rates are summarized in Ta-ble 3.
For each of the target word sets, the simp-lex onset parse shows a clear advantage in fittingthe data.
Hit rates for the simplex parse are above75.4% in all cases and the hit rate for the com-plex onset parse never rises above 00.0%.
More-over, the anchor indices that maximize R2 for thesimplex onset parse are low, ranging from anchor1 to anchor 7.
For the complex onset parse, thehighest variability anchor (anchor 15) providesthe best fit to the data in all cases.Word set Interval RSDLE-A CC-A RE-Abulha~sbulha~ksbulha 24.6% 15.9% 11.2%dulha~kdulha~bkdulha 22.2% 17.7% 10.7%bal~dbal 20.5 9.7% 5.1%tab~ktab 6.8% 5.7% 5.5%bati~sbati 20.9% 9.1% 5.8%bula~sbula 22.0% 11.1% 7.3%lih~glih 18.5% 10.7% 2.7%Table 2.
Relative standard deviation of three in-tervals, left edge to anchor (LE-A), center toanchor (CC-A), right edge to anchor (RE-A) cal-culated across productions of word sets by onenative speaker of Moroccan Arabic.Word set Hit rateSimplex Complexbulha~sbulha~ksbulha 99.2% 00.0%dulha~kdulha~bkdulhabal~dbaltab~ktabbati~sbatibula~sbula(7)99.9%(1)92.4%(3)75.4%(4)84.7%(4)88.5%(4)(15)00.0%(15)00.0%(15)00.0%(15)00.0%(15)00.0%(15)lih~glih 98.3.0%(1)00.0%(15)Table 3.
Hit rate for each syllable parse whenevaluated against various Moroccan Arabic wordsets.
The anchor index that maximized R2 foreach syllable parse is given in parenthesis.In sum, the simplex onset parse outperformsthe complex onset parse on Moroccan Arabicdata.
The opposite result was obtained for Amer-ican English.
For English, it was the complexonset parse that achieved a higher hit rate with alower anchor index.59Each of the data sets evaluated thus far werecontributed by a single speaker.
In these data thepatterns of interval stability clearly reveal tem-poral organization in terms of syllables.
To eva-luate whether the model continues to distinguishsyllabic parses when phonetic heuristics breakdown, we now turn to a corpus of less controlledstimuli from multiple speakers with a high de-gree of inter-speaker variability.4.3 American English (multi-speaker data)Under some conditions, stability-based phoneticheuristics break down as reliable indicators ofsyllable structure.
This is known to occur, forexample, when the level of overall variability inthe intervals is high (Shaw et al, 2009).In controlled experimental studies, as can beseen in Figure 1, neither of the two syllabicparses, simplex or complex, has been observed toshow the left edge to anchor interval as morestable than the center to anchor and right edge toanchor intervals.
At high levels of variability,however, the probabilistic model developed inour work can produce patterns whereby the leftedge to anchor interval is more stable than theother two intervals.
This occurs regardless of thesyllable parse when the anchor index is high (e.g.15), which represents a high degree of variabilityin the intervals (the reason why high interval va-riability results in this pattern is explained inShaw et al 2009).
Under these conditions ofhigh variability, both values of the essential vari-able (simplex and complex onset parses) gener-ate a pattern whereby the left edge to anchor in-terval has a lower RSD than the center to anchorinterval and the right edge to anchor interval.Thus, at this level of variability, stability-basedphonetic heuristics, i.e., center to anchor stabilityimplies a complex onset parse, are rendered inef-fective in distinguishing syllabic parses.When variability leads competing syllableparses to the same predictions in terms of inequa-lities (both models show left edge to anchor sta-bility), is our modeling paradigm still capable ofdistinguishing syllabic parses?
To address thisquestion, we need a corpus with the requisitelevel of variability.The Wisconsin X-ray Microbeam Speech Pro-duction Database provides  recordings of a varie-ty of tasks including production of sentences,passages and word lists from fifty-seven speakersof American English (Westbury, 1994).
Al-though not all speakers completed all tasks andsome tokens have missing data which make themunusable for this analysis, it remains an archiveof articulatory data that is extremely impressivein size.
Within this archive there are variousnear-minimal pairs that can be used to evaluatesyllable structure using the methods employedabove.
Here we report on thirty-three speakers?productions of the dyad row~grows.
Calculatinginterval stability across multiple speaker samplesof this word dyad is one way to introduce varia-bility into the intervals and, by doing so, providean interesting test case for our proposed methods.The target word row was produced in the sen-tence Things in a row provide a sense of order.This sentence is one of several unrelated sen-tences included in Task #60 within the X-raymicrobeam corpus.
The word grows was pro-duced in the sentence That noise problem growsmore annoying each day, which is included inTask #56.
Although these target words were pro-duced in different syntactic frames and occur indifferent phrasal positions, we assume, followingstandard phonological assumptions, that all in-stances of /gr/ and /r/ were syllabified identically,namely, that they are parsed into complex sylla-ble onsets.
To test this assumption, we askwhether the models converge on the same result.In all respects except for the determination ofthe anchor point, the quantification of the X-raymicrobeam data followed the same proceduredescribed for Electromagnetic Articulometry da-ta in Shaw et al (2009).
To determine the anchorpoint, we followed past work on English (Brow-man and Goldstein 1988, Honorof and Browman1995) by using an acoustic landmark, the offsetof voicing in the vowel, as the anchor point right-delimiting the intervals of interest.
This was donefor the following reason.
The target words in thiscase are not matched at the right edge of the syl-lable (grows ends in s while row ends in a vowel)and this makes it difficult to determine a com-mon articulatory anchor across words.
The arti-culatory landmarks that left-delimit the intervalsof interest were the same as for the English andArabic data discussed above.The duration of the three intervals, left edge toanchor, center to anchor and right edge to anc-hor, were measured for one repetition of eachword, row and grows, for thirty-three speakers.The variation across speakers in the duration ofthese intervals was substantial.
As an example,the left edge to anchor interval of row rangesfrom 193 ms (Subject 44) to 518 ms (Subject53).
The mean, standard deviation and relativestandard deviation of the intervals calculatedacross row and grows are provided in Table 4.60In this data the RSD of the left edge to anchorinterval is lower than the RSD of both the centerto anchor and right edge to anchor intervals.From the perspective of phonetic heuristics ofsyllable structure, this fact by itself is not par-ticularly revealing.
Both syllabic parses predict-this should be the case at very high levels of va-riability.
This data set therefore provides a chal-lenge to phonetic heuristics stated in the form ofdirectional inequalities and an appropriate test ofthe quantitative methods developed here.row~growsInterval statisticsLE-A CC-A RE-Amean 302 269 233SD 55.3 49.9 52.3RSD 18.3% 18.6% 22.5%Table 4.
Mean, standard deviation, and relativestandard deviation of three intervals, left edge toanchor (LE-A), center to anchor (CC-A), rightedge to anchor (RE-A), calculated across produc-tions of row and grows by thirty-three speakersof American EnglishSimulations with the simplex and complex on-set models generated RSD values that were fittedto the RSD values of the three intervals of inter-est in the English row~grows data.
On each run,the model simulated 10 repetitions of words be-ginning with one and two consonants.
The samevalues of the constants used for the other Englishsimulations were employed here as well, and thesame range of anchor variability was producedfor each parse.
Anchor 1 has a standard deviationof zero and the standard deviation of each subse-quent anchor increases by 5 ms so that anchor 15has a standard deviation of 70 ms. Table 5 re-ports the results of 1000 runs of the simulation.Word set Hit rateSimplex Complexrow~grows 91.8% 99.0%(11) (6)Table 5: Hit rate for each syllable parse whenevaluated against the English dyad row~grows.The anchor index that maximized R2 for eachsyllable parse is given in parenthesis.The results of the model fitting reveal that thecomplex onset parse provides a superior fit to thedata.
The complex onset parse achieves a higherhit rate (99.0% vs. 91.8%) with a less variableanchor (anchor 6 vs. anchor 11) than the simplexonset parse.
This result demonstrates that themodel can distinguish syllabic parses even innoisy data contributed by multiple speakers.Since the target words, row and grows, wereproduced in different environments, there arepotentially a number of interacting factors in-fluencing the pattern of temporal stability in thedata.
A model incorporating, for example, pro-sodic structure above the level of the syllablemay identify interactions between syllable andhigher levels of prosodic structure.
We plan toexplore models of this sort in future work.
It re-mains an important result of the current modelthat competing parses of a given string can bedistinguished in the data even at levels of varia-bility that obscure phonetic heuristics for syllablestructure.5 ConclusionThere is a growing body of evidence indicatingthat the temporal dimension provides a richsource of information revealing phonologicalstructure.
In the domain syllables, the relationbetween temporal patterns in experimental dataand qualitative aspects of phonological structurehas often taken the form of statements expressinginequalities, e.g., a complex onset parse impliesthat the center to anchor interval is more stablethan the right/left edge to anchor intervals.
Pho-netic heuristics of this sort are valid only undercertain conditions.
The models developed in thispaper generate finer-grained quantitative predic-tions of syllabic structure based on a probabilis-tic interpretation of temporal organization.
Ourmodels make predictions not just about stabilityinequalities but also about the permissible degreeto which interval stabilities may differ from oneanother under a given syllable parse.
Crucially,these predictions allow for evaluation of compet-ing syllable parses even when statements in theform of inequalities do not.As the phonological literature is replete withdebates regarding the syllabification of conso-nant clusters, the tools developed here have im-mediate application.
They allow rigorous evalua-tion of syllable structure on the basis of experi-mental data.AcknowledgmentsThe authors gratefully acknowledge supportfrom NSF grant 0922437.
This paper was im-proved by the comments and suggestions of threeanonymous reviewers.
Remaining errors aresolely the responsibility of the authors.61ReferencesAlbright, A., & Hayes, B.
(2003).
Rules vs. analogyin English past tenses: acomputational/experimental study.Cognition, 90, 119-161.Browman, C. P., & Goldstein, L. (1988).
Some Noteson Syllable Structure in ArticulatoryPhonology.
Phonetica, 45, 140-155.Byrd, D. (1995).
C-centers revisited.
Phonetica, 52,285-306.Catford, J. C. (1977).
Fundamental Problems inPhonetics.
Bloomington: Indiana UniversityPress.Dell, F., & Elmedlaoui, M. (2002).
Syllables inTashlhiyt Berber and in Moroccan Arabic.Dordrecht, Netherlands, and Boston, MA:Kluwer Academic Publishers.Gafos, A.
(2002).
A grammar of gesturalcoordination.
Natural Language andLinguistic Theory, 20, 269-337.Goldstein, L. M., Chitoran, I., & Selkirk, E. (2007).Syllable structure as coupled oscillatormodes: evidence from Georgian vs. TashlhiytBerber.
Proceedings of the XVIthInternational Congress of Phonetic Sciences,241-244, Saabrucken, Germany.Hermes, A., Grice, M., Muecke, D., & Niemann, H.(2008).
Articulatory indicators of syllableaffiliation in word initial consonant clustersin Italian.
In R. Stock, S. Fuchs & Y.
Laprie(Eds.
), Proceedings of the 8th InternationalSeminar on Speech Production, 433-436,Strasbourg, France.Honorof, D., & Browman, C. (1995).
The center orthe edge: how are consonant clustersorganised with respect to the vowel?
In K.Elenius & P. Branderud (Eds.
), Proceedingsof the XIIIth International Congress ofPhonetic Sciences Vol.
3, 552-555,Stockholm, Sweden.Kahn, D. (1976).
Syllable-based generalizations inEnglish phonology.
Unpublished Ph.D.Dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, MA.Kugler, P. N., Kelso, J.
A. S., & Turvey, M. T.(1980).
On the concept of coordinativestructures as dissipative structures: I.Theoretical lines of convergence.
In G. E.Stelmach & J. Requin (Eds.
), Tutorials inMotor Behavior (p. 3-47): North-HollandPublishing Company.Marin, S., & Pouplier, M. (2008).
Organization ofcomplex onsets and codas in AmericanEnglish: Evidence for a competitive couplingmodel.
In R. Sock, S. Fuchs & Y.
Laprie(Eds.
), Proceedings of the 8th InternationalSeminar of Speech Production, 437-440,Strasbourg, France.Shaw, J.
A.
(2010).
The temporal organization ofsyllabic structure.
Unpublished Ph.D.Dissertation, NYU, New York, NY.Shaw, J.
A., Gafos, A., Hoole, P., & Zeroual, C.(2009).
Syllabification in Moroccan Arabic:evidence from patterns of temporal stabilityin articulation.
Phonology, 26, 187-215.Vogt, H.
(Ed.).
(1971).
Grammaire de la langueG?orgienne.
Oslo: Universitetsforlaget.Westbury, J. R. (1994).
X-ray Microbeam SpeechProduction Database User's Handbook.University of Wisconsin.62
