Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Computational Linguistics in a World of Social Media, pages 29?30,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsTracking Information Flow between Primary and Secondary News SourcesWill Radford ??
Ben Hachey ? James R. Curran ??
Maria Milosavljevic School of Information Technologies?
Capital Markets CRC?
Centre for Language TechnologyUniversity of Sydney 55 Harrington Street Macquarie UniversityNSW 2006, Australia NSW 2000, Australia NSW 2109, Australia{wradford,james}@it.usyd.edu.au bhachey@cmcrc.com mariam@ics.mq.edu.auAbstractTracking information flow (IFLOW) is crucialto understanding the evolution of news sto-ries.
We present analysis and experiments forIFLOW between company announcements andnewswire.
Error analysis shows that many FPsare annotation errors and many FNs are dueto coarse-grained document-level modelling.Experiments show that document meta-datafeatures (e.g., category, length, timing) im-prove f-scores relative to upper bound by 23%.1 IntroductionTracking IFLOW between primary and secondarynews sources provides insight into the contributionof participants and the role of sources.
In finance,being alert and responsive to the nature of incominginformation (e.g., novelty, price sensitivity) is cen-tral to successful trading (Zaheer and Zaheer, 1997).Traders need tools that flag price-sensitive informa-tion in a high-volume news feed.
IFLOW is central tomarket surveillance, where unusual market activity(e.g., abnormal changes in trading price or volume)is linked to explanations in the information ecosys-tem (Milosavljevic et al, 2009).In Australia, the Australian Securities Exchange(ASX) is the official syndicator of information thatmight affect a company?s share price.
Subsequently,a variety of secondary sources (e.g., news media,blogs, forums) repackage this information.
We fo-cus on the relationship between ASX company an-nouncements and Reuters newswire, which filtersand aggregates the key details from company an-nouncements in near-real time.2 Preliminary ResultsWe define IFLOW for capital markets as a pair ofdocuments where one repeats price-sensitive infor-mation from the other (Radford et al, 2009).
Pairsof ASX announcements and Reuters NewsScopeArchive (RNA) stories covering the same companyand released within a week of one another are man-ually annotated for presence or absence of IFLOW.These are used to train MEGAM (Daume?
III, 2004)maximum entropy models for identifying IFLOW.Textual features include set-theoretic bags of wordunigrams and bigrams over the document text andtitles.
Text, title and numeric token similarity scores(Metzler et al, 2005) provide a more general no-tion of similarity.
The precision of numeric tokens isalso represented.
Counts of matched sentences andlongest common sub-sequences capture longer unitsof reused text.
Temporal features model the newscycle and news source responsiveness.In development experiments (ten-fold cross vali-dation, 30,249 ASX-RNA pairs), the system identi-fies IFLOW pairs at 89.5% f-score (Radford et al,2009).
In evaluation experiments (held-out test set,1,621 ASX-RNA pairs), it achieves 76.6% f-score,significantly better than a text-only baseline (62.5%)and 10% less than the human upper bound (86.4%).3 Error analysisWe engaged finance students (fourth-year or higher)to examine the 20 false positive (FP) errors with thehighest IFLOW probabilities and the 20 false neg-ative (FN) errors with the lowest IFLOW probabili-ties.
Table 1 shows the resulting reassessment of the29Error Correct Incorrect AmbiguousFP 4 (20%) 15 (75%) 1 (5%)FN 15 (75%) 4 (20%) 1 (5%)Table 1: Analysis of original annotation correctness.original IFLOW annotation.
For FPs, 75% were de-termined to have been incorrectly annotated as ab-sent of IFLOW.
This is not unexpected since IFLOWcan be based on small details (e.g., ?$2.45m profit?
)which are easily missed by annotators.
This suggeststhat the system?s actual precision may be higherthan 90.9%.
Mis-annotation is less common for FNs(20%).
However, the proportion of DIGEST docu-ments (those that report on multiple events) is muchhigher for FNs (75% compared to 30% for FPs).
It islikely that legitimate textual similarity is lost in thenoise of the irrelevant content.4 Document Metadata FeaturesWe add new features that take advantage of categori-sation information in the source metadata.
These in-clude ASX tags for price sensitivity, ASX and RNAtype tags and journalist revision comments embed-ded in RNA stories.
These features model differ-ences in IFLOW between document types (e.g., pe-riodic reports are more likely to be reported than adividend rate announcement).
A feature represent-ing the length of each ASX-RNA document is also in-cluded.
We also add detail to the temporal features,including the day and month the announcement wasreleased, as well as whether the announcement andstory were released on the same day.The metadata features lead to significantly betterf-score in development experiments (Table 2).
Sub-tractive feature analysis suggests that the documenttype and length features are effective (p<0.05) butthe detailed temporal features are not.
The revisioncomments are borderline (p=0.051).
In Table 3,the metadata features improve the f-score by 23%over Radford et al (2009) with respect to the upperbound, but the difference is not significant.
The dif-ferent precision-recall balance between experimentsis consistent with Section 3.5 Discussion and Future WorkWe have developed a dataset for IFLOW in the con-text of financial text mining and demonstrated it is aFeatures P (%) R (%) F (%)Radford et al (2009) 90.9 88.1 89.5+ Metadata Features 91.1 ?
?89.3 ?90.2Table 2: Precision (P), recall (R) and f-score (F) for de-velopment experiments (?
: p<0.05, ??
: p<0.01).Features P (%) R (%) F (%)Text-only Baseline 80.0 51.3 62.5Radford et al (2009) 84.5 70.1 76.6+ Metadata Features 86.3 72.6 78.9Human Upper Bound 88.9 85.1 86.4Table 3: P, R and F for evaluation experiments.feasible task using simple approaches.
Future workwill involve more advanced models.
First, we willconsider sub-document analysis, as suggested by theDIGEST FNs in the error analysis.
This will also en-able tools that highlight specific types of contribu-tion (e.g., adding background context, novel anal-ysis) within secondary sources.
Furthermore, thewider IFLOW ecosystem includes other sources (e.g.,bloggers, forum contributors) that should be anal-ysed for leading and lagging indicators.
Finally, anumber of specific applications might serve as ex-trinsic evaluations of the IFLOW task.
These includede-duplicating and aggregating information feedsand automatically attributing reported content to asource story.ReferencesHal Daume?
III.
2004.
Notes on CG and LM-BFGSoptimization of logistic regression.
http://hal3.name/docs/daume04cg-bfgs.pdf.Donald Metzler, Yaniv Bernstein, W. Bruce Croft, Alis-tair Moffat, and Justin Zobel.
2005.
Similarity mea-sures for tracking information flow.
In Proc.
CIKM,pages 517?524.Maria Milosavljevic, Jean-Yves Delort, Ben Hachey, Ba-vani Arunasalam, Will Radford, and James R. Curran.2009.
Automating financial surveillance.
In Proceed-ings of the Workshop on Mining User-Generated Con-tent for Security.Will Radford, Ben Hachey, James R. Curran, and MariaMilosavljevic.
2009.
Tracking information flow in fi-nancial text.
In Proc.
ALTA, pages 11?19.Akbar Zaheer and Srilata Zaheer.
1997.
Catching thewave: alertness, responsiveness, and market influencein global electronic networks.
Management Science,43(11):1493?1509.30
