Proceedings of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 91?94,The University of Tokyo, September 24-25, 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Improving the Naturalness ofSocial Conversations with Dialogue SystemsMatthew Marge, Joa?o Miranda, Alan W Black, Alexander I. RudnickySchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213{mrmarge,jmiranda,awb,air}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractWe describe an approach to improvingthe naturalness of a social dialogue sys-tem, Talkie, by adding disfluencies andother content-independent enhancementsto synthesized conversations.
We investi-gated whether listeners perceive conversa-tions with these improvements as natural(i.e., human-like) as human-human con-versations.
We also assessed their abilityto correctly identify these conversations asbetween humans or computers.
We findthat these enhancements can improve theperceived naturalness of conversations forobservers ?overhearing?
the dialogues.1 IntroductionAn enduring problem in spoken dialogue systemsresearch is how to make conversations betweenhumans and computers approach the naturalnessof human-human conversations.
Although thishas been addressed in several goal-oriented dia-logue systems (e.g., for tutoring, question answer-ing, etc.
), social dialogue systems (i.e., non-task-oriented) have not significantly advanced beyondso-called ?chatbots?.
Proper social dialogue sys-tems (Bickmore and Cassell, 2004; Higuchi etal., 2002) would be able to conduct open con-versations, without being restricted to particulardomains.
Such systems would find use in manyenvironments (e.g., human-robot interaction, en-tertainment technology).This paper presents an approach to improving asocial dialogue system capable of chatting aboutthe news by adding content-independent enhance-ments to speech.
We hypothesize that enhance-ments such as explicit acknowledgments (e.g.,right, so, well) and disfluencies can make human-computer conversations sound indistinguishablefrom those between two humans.Enhancements to synthesized speech have beenfound to influence perception of a syntheticvoice?s hesitation (Carlson et al, 2006) and per-sonality (Nass and Lee, 2001).
Andersson etal.
(2010) used machine learning techniques todetermine where to include conversational phe-nomena to improve synthesized speech.
Adell etal.
(2007) developed methods for inserting filledpauses into synthesized speech that listeners foundmore natural.
In these studies, human judges com-pared utterances in isolation with and without im-provements.
In our study, we focus on a holisticevaluation of naturalness in dialogues and ask ob-servers to directly assess the naturalness of con-versations that they ?overhear?.2 The Talkie SystemTalkie is a spoken dialogue system capable of hav-ing open conversations about recent topics in thenews.
This system was developed for a dialoguesystems course (Lim et al, 2009).
Interactionis intended to be unstructured and free-flowing,much like social conversations.
Talkie initiates aconversation by mentioning a recent news head-line and invites the user to comment on it.The system uses a database of news topics andhuman-written comments from the ?most bloggedabout articles?
of the New York Times (NYT)1.Comments are divided into single sentences to ap-proximate the length of a spoken response.
Givena user?s utterance (e.g., keywords related to thetopic), Talkie responds with the comment thatmost closely resembles that utterance.
Talkie mayaccess any comment related to the topic under dis-cussion (without repetition).
The user may chooseto switch to a different topic at any time (at whichpoint Talkie will propose a different topic from itsset).1http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostblogged.htmlFollow links to each article?s comment section.913 StudyWe performed a study to determine if the per-ceived naturalness of conversations could be im-proved by using heuristic enhancements to speechoutput.
Participants ?overheard?
conversations(similar to Walker et al (2004)).
Originally typedinteractions, the conversations were later synthe-sized into speech using the Flite speech synthesisengine (Black and Lenzo, 2001).
For distinctive-ness, conversations were between one male voice(rms) and one female voice (slt).
The voices weregenerated using the CLUSTERGEN statistical para-metric synthesizer (Black, 2006).
All conversa-tions began with the female voice.3.1 Dialogue ContentWe considered four different conversation types:(1 & 2) between a human and Talkie (human-computer and computer-human depending on thefirst speaker), (3) between two humans on atopic in Talkie?s database (human-human), and(4) between two instances of Talkie (computer-computer).
The human-computer and computer-human conditions differed from each other byone utterance; that is, one was a shifted versionof the other by one dialogue turn.
The human-computer conversations were collected from twopeople (one native English speaker, one nativePortuguese speaker) interacting with Talkie onseparate occasions.
For human-human conversa-tions, Talkie proposed a topic for discussion.
Eachconversation contained ten turns of dialogue.
Toremove any potential effects from the start and endcontent of the conversations, we selected the mid-dle three turns for synthesis.
Each conversationtype had five conversations, each about one of fiverecent headlines (as of May 2010).3.2 Heuristic EnhancementsWe defined a set of rules that added phenomenaobserved in human-human spoken conversations.These included filled pauses, word repetitions, si-lences, and explicit acknowledgments.
Conversa-tions in this study were enhanced manually by fol-lowing the set of rules described in Figure 1; anexample is shown in Figure 2.3.3 Participants and TaskEighty participants were recruited from Ama-zon?s Mechanical Turk2 (MTurk) for this between-2http://www.mturk.comCategory I - Explicit Acknolwedgements?
inserted sparingly at the beginning of sentenceswhen grammatical (e.g., well, so, you know,right).Category II - Filled pauses / repetitions?
no more than three per dialogue?
no more than two in any one sentence?
placed repetitions in places where speaker mayhave hesitation (e.g., after ?I think...?)?
utterances may have a filled pause or a repetitionfollowed by a filled pause.Category III - Silences?
added sparingly after filled pauses.Figure 1: Heuristics used for adding enhance-ments to synthesized dialogue.subjects study.
Only workers with a 95% HIT (hu-man intelligence task) approval rating could par-ticipate.
There were three experimental dimen-sions that we counterbalanced across participants:the four conversation ?types?
described in Section3.1, the order of the five topics, and the presenceor absence of heuristic enhancements to the syn-thesized speech that participants heard.
Each par-ticipant listened to every topic such that exactlyfive participants heard each condition.Participants made two judgments per conversa-tion: rating the ?naturalness?
of a conversationbased on a four-point Likert scale and rankingthe conversant identities (i.e., as two humans, twocomputers, or a computer and a human) from mostto least confident.
We used the non-parametricKruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance todetermine statistically significant differences innaturalness responses across groups (naturalnessbeing the dependent measure).4 ResultsWe analyzed two measures: (1) naturalness rat-ings of conversations, and (2) frequencies fromhighest-rank to lowest-rank of who the participantbelieved to be the speakers in each conversation.We found no statistically significant ordering ef-fects or biases due to the topic of conversation.4.1 Speaker Type Condition ResultsResults for naturalness scores are summarized inFigure 3.
As expected, mean naturalness washighest for the human-human condition and lowestfor the computer-computer condition.
We found92Human-computer conversation (original, enhancements)h: Well, that sounds ridiculous, you get taxed proportionally to your paycheck.c: So, let them retire on social security payments, then you will see changes with <uh>with an overabundance of funds.h: I don?t see how this would be possible.c: You know, you don?t have the money yet, and you have just increased your debt by 2.5 trillion dollars.h: Exactly why should we be raising taxes on the rich?c: With our current politics of division, I <umm> worry we have the will or determination to address these issues.Figure 2: Example conversation with heuristic enhancements marked in bold.1.92.5 2.32.71.52.02.53.01.0 cc ch hc hhFigure 3: Naturalness across the speaker type con-dition.no statistically significant difference in naturalnessratings for the computer-human condition com-pared to the human-computer condition (H(1) =2.94; p = 0.09).
Also, the computer-computercondition was significantly different from all otherconditions, suggesting that conversation flow is animportant factor in determining the naturalness ofa conversation (H(3) = 42.49, p < 0.05).People rated conversations involving a com-puter and a human similarly to human-human con-versations (without enhancements).
There wereno statistically significant differences between thethree conditions cc, ch, and hc (H(2) = 5.36, p =0.06).
However, a trend indicated that hc natural-ness ratings differed from those of the ch and hhconditions.
Conversations from the hc conditionhad much lower (18%) mean naturalness ratingscompared to their ch counterparts, even thoughthey were nearly equivalent in content.4.2 Heuristic Enhancements ResultsThere were significant differences in naturalnessratings when heuristic enhancements were present(H(1) = 17.49, p < 0.05).
Figure 4 shows thatthe perceived naturalness was on average higherwith heuristic enhancements.
Overall, mean natu-ralness improved by 20%.
This result agrees withfindings from Andersson et al (2010).Computer-computer conversations had thehighest relative improvement (42%) in mean nat-uralness.
Naturalness ratings were significantlydifferent when comparing these conversationswith and without enhancements (H(1) = 11.77, p< 0.05).
Content-free conversational phenomenaappear to compensate for the lack of logical flowin these conversations.
According to Figure 5,after enhancements people are no better thanchance at correctly determining the speakers ina computer-computer conversation.
Thus theheuristic enhancements clearly affect naturalnessjudgments.Even the naturalness of conversations with goodlogical flow can improve with heuristic adjust-ments; there was a 26% relative improvement inthe mean naturalness of human-human conver-sations.
Participant ratings of naturalness wereagain significantly different (H(1) = 12.45, p <0.05).
Note that these conversations were origi-nally typed dialogue.
As such, they did not captureturn-taking properties present in conversationalspeech.
When enhanced with conversational phe-nomena, they more closely resembled natural spo-ken conversations.
As shown in Figure 5, peopleare more likely than chance to correctly identifytwo humans as being the participants in the di-alogue after these enhancements were applied tospeech.Conversations with one computer and one hu-man also benefited from heuristic enhancements.Improvements in naturalness were marginal, how-ever.
Naturalness scores in the hc condition im-proved by 16%, but this improvement was onlya trend (H(1) = 3.66, p = 0.06).
Improvementwas negligible in the ch condition.
Participantsselected the correct speakers in human-computerdialogues no better than random.
We note thatparticipants tended to avoid ranking conversationsas ?human & computer?
with confidence (i.e., thehighest rank).
A significant majority (267 out of400) of second-rank selections were ?human &computer.?
Participants tended to order conditions931.52.5 2.1 2.42.22.5 2.43.01.52.02.53.03.51.0 cc ch hc hhno_enhance all_enhanceFigure 4: Mean naturalness across enhancementconditions.66.0%34.0%16.0%30.0%30.0%16.0%44.0% 56.0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%0% cc ch hc hhno_enhance all_enhanceFigure 5: Percentage of participants?
selections ofmembers of the conversation that were correct.from all human to all computer or vice-versa.5 ConclusionsWe have shown that content-independent heuris-tics can be used to improve the perceived natural-ness of conversations.
Our conversations sampleda variety of interactions using Talkie, a social di-alogue system that converses about recent newsheadlines.
An experiment examined the factorsthat could influence how external judges rate thenaturalness of these conversations.We found that without enhancements, peoplerated conversations involving a human and a com-puter similarly to conversations involving two hu-mans.
Adding heuristic enhancements produceddifferent results, depending on the conversationtype: computer-computer and human-human con-versations had the best gain in naturalness scores.Though it remains to be seen if people are alwaysinfluenced by such enhancements, they are clearlyuseful for improving the naturalness of human-computer dialogues.Future work will involve developing methods toautomatically inject enhancements into the synthe-sized speech output produced by Talkie, as wellas determining whether other types of systems canbenefit from these techniques.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Aasish Pappu, Jose-PabloGonzales Brenes, Long Qin, and Daniel Lim fordeveloping the Talkie dialogue system.ReferencesJ.
Adell, A. Bonafonte, and D. Escudero.
Filled pausesin speech synthesis: Towards conversational speech.In TSD?07, Pilsen, Czech Republic, 2007.S.
Andersson, K. Georgila, D. Traum, M. Aylett, andR.A.J.
Clark.
Prediction and realisation of con-versational characteristics by utilising spontaneousspeech for unit selection.
In the 5th InternationalConference on Speech Prosody, Chicago, Illinois,USA, 2010.T.
Bickmore and J. Cassell.
Social Dialogue with Em-bodied Conversational Agents.
J. van Kuppevelt, L.Dybkjaer, and N. Bernsen (eds.
), Natural, Intelligentand Effective Interaction with Multimodal DialogueSystems.
New York: Kluwer Academic.A.
Black.
CLUSTERGEN: A Statistical ParametricSynthesizer using Trajectory Modeling.
In Inter-speech?06 - ICSLP, Pittsburgh, PA, 2006.A.
Black and K. Lenzo.
Flite: a small fast run-timesynthesis engine.
In ISCA 4th Speech SynthesisWorkshop, Scotland, 2001.R.
Carlson and K. Gustafson and E. Strangert.
Cues forHesitation in Speech Synthesis.
In Interspeech?06 -ICSLP, Pittsburgh, PA, 2006.S.
Higuchi, R. Rzepka, and K. Araki.
A casual conver-sation system using modality and word associationsretrieved from the web.
In EMNLP?08.
Honolulu,Hawaii, 2008.D.
Lim, A. Pappu, J. Gonzales-Brenes, and L. Qin.The Talkie Spoken Dialogue System.
Unpublishedmanuscript, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy, 2009.C.
Nass and K. M. Lee.
Does computer-synthesizedspeech manifest personality?
Experimental tests ofrecognition, similarity-attraction, and consistency-attraction.
Journal of Experimental Psychology:Applied 7 (2001) 171-181.M.
A. Walker, S. J. Whittaker, A. Stent, P. Maloor, J.Moore, M. Johnston, G. Vasireddy.
Generation andevaluation of user tailored responses in multimodaldialogue.
Cognitive Sci.
28 (2004) 811-840.94
