Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 162?165,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnnotating Korean DemonstrativesSun-Hee LeeWellesley CollegeWellesley, USAslee6@wellesley.eduJae-young SongYonsei UniversitySeoul, Koreajysong@yonsei.ac.krAbstractThis paper presents preliminary work on acorpus-based study of Korean demonstratives.Through the development of an annotationscheme and the use of spoken and writtencorpora, we aim to determine different func-tions of demonstratives and to examine theirdistributional properties.
Our corpus studyadopts similar features of annotation used inBotley and McEnery (2001) and providessome linguistic hypotheses on grammaticalfunctions of Korean demonstratives to be fur-ther explored.1 IntroductionKorean demonstratives are known to have twodifferent functions: anaphoric and deictic refer-ence.
Anaphoric demonstratives refer to objects,individuals, events, situations, or propositions inthe given linguistic context.
Deictic demonstra-tives refer to physical objects, individuals, orpositions (or regions) in the given situationalcontext.
Deictic variations commonly signal thespeaker?s physical distance from specified items.Previous literature on Korean demonstratives hasfocused on deictic functions in spoken Korean,but a comprehensive approach to their diverselinguistic functions is still lacking.
This studyexamines distinct usages of Korean demonstra-tives in a spoken and a written corpus throughthe annotation of relevant linguistic features.
Ourannotation scheme and features are expected tohelp clarify grammatical functions of Koreandemonstratives, as well as other anaphoric ex-pressions.English demonstratives show a binary distinc-tion that depends on physical distance; there is adistinction between proximal forms (this, these,this N, these Ns) and distal forms (that, those,that N, those Ns).
In contrast, demonstratives inlanguages like Korean and Japanese show athree-way distinction: proximal forms, speaker-centered distal forms, and speaker- and hearer-centered distal forms.
For example, deictic de-monstrative i refers to a proximal object relativeto the speaker, ku refers to a distant object that isclose to the hearer, and ce refers to a distant ob-ject that is far from both the speaker and thehearer.
Thus, distinct usage of ce and ku is asso-ciated with how the speaker allocates the deicticcenter and contextual space, i.e., the speaker-centered space vs. the speaker- and the hearer?centered space.
In contrast with deictic usage,previous studies (Chang, 1980; Chang, 1984)assumed that anaphoric demonstratives showonly a two-way distinction between proximalforms i and distal forms ku.
However, it is stillcontroversial as to whether the boundaries be-tween anaphora and deixis are clear cut.
Withour annotation scheme, we aim to capture thelinguistic properties contributing to interpreta-tions of demonstratives in Korean.
In particular,we aim to determine whether different registersor genres contribute to different functions of de-monstratives by comparing their usage in a spo-ken corpus and a written corpus.In consideration of a future comparative anal-ysis with English demonstratives, we have de-signed our annotation scheme by adopting Botleyand McEnery?s (2001) paradigmatic set of dis-tinctive features for English demonstratives.However, the detailed annotation features havebeen revised according to language specific fea-tures of Korean.2 Corpus StudyFor data extraction, we used two Sejong taggedcorpora including a 20,343 eojeol spoken corpusand 21,023 eojeol written corpus.1Each corpus is1The term eojeol refers to a unit set off by spaces and cor-responds to a word unit in English.162composed of four conversations/texts with ap-proximately 5000 eojeol.
The subcorpora of thespoken corpus are everyday conversations with-out assigned topics and those of the written cor-pus are three newspaper articles and part of anovel.Compared to English, Korean demonstrativesinclude more complex grammatical categorieswith morphological relations.
The demonstrativeforms i, ku, and ce combine with other words ormorphemes and form complex words includingnominals (e.g., i-kes: this+thing ?this?
), adverbs(e.g., ce-lehkey: that+way ?that way?
), adjectives(e.g., ku-lehata: it+is ?is so?)
and other lexicalcategories.
Thus, it is difficult to determine ifthey all belong to the same category of demon-stratives in Korean.
In this study, demonstrativesare restricted to words that contain i, ku, and cemaintaining a distinct referentialfunction ofpointing.
The selected demonstratives includeadnouns ( i N ?this N?,  ku N ?that N?, ce ?thatN?
), pronouns ( i-es/i-ke ?this?, ku-kes/ ku-ke ?it?,ce-kes/ceke ?that?, i-tul ?these?, ku-tul ?they?
ce-tul), and locative pronouns ( yeki ?here?, keki?there?, ceki ?over there?).
Although those formshave different lexical categories, strong similari-ties exist within the same morphological families,which we will refer to as i type, ku type, and cetype demonstratives.
Our annotation work aimsto extract a generalization of the fundamentalusage of the three different types and to use thatgeneralization for developing further research onvarious morphological variants containing i, ku,and ce.2.1 The Annotation SchemeIn order to mark referential functions of Koreandemonstratives, we first adopt Halliday and Ha-san?s (1976) classification of the different refer-ence functions of demonstratives: exophoric vs.endophoric usage.
We further divide exophorainto deixis and background.
While the formerrefers to a physical object or an individual (orlocation) in the situational context, the latter re-fers to certain shared information between thespeaker and the hearer.
(1)      Referencesituational (exophoric)  textual (endophoric)deictic      background     anaphoric   cataphoric(shared knowledge)Six distinct features include ?Lexical Category ofa Demonstrative?, ?Endophoricity?, ?Exopho-ricity?, ?Syntactic Category of an Antecedent?,?Phoric Type?, and ?Semantic Function of anAntecedent?.
The first five features are adoptedfrom five features in Botley and McEnery?s(2001) annotation work on English demonstra-tives.2The last feature (semantic function) hasbeen added for future work annotating semanticinformation that facilitates anaphor resolutionprocesses.Lexical categories of Korean demonstrativesin this study include four parts of speech: adnoun,pronoun, locative pronoun (functioning also asan adverb), and exclamatory expressions.
Whilethe first three categories show referential func-tions, the exclamatory expressions do not havereference.
Instead, they are used as expressionsconveying the speaker?s emotion or state, e.g.,embarrassment, confusion, hedging.We do not,however, exclude the possibility of linguisticconnectivity between demonstrative and excla-matory forms.
For instance, the distal demonstra-tive form ce tends to be used as a hedging ex-pression in Korean.
Our study includes exclama-tory usage as an annotation feature.Endophoricity refers to two different func-tions: anaphoric vs. cataphoric.
Exophoricity re-fers to context based vs. deixis.
According toHalliday and Hasan?s classification in (1), de-monstratives with referential function show twomajor usages: endophoric and exophoric.
Thefirst type takes its antecedent within the giventext; the latter, within the given situation.
Dis-tinction between an anaphor and a cataphor de-pends on the position of the antecedent.
When anendophor follows its antecedent, it is an anaphor;the other case is a cataphor.
Demonstratives mayhave different types of antecedents syntactically.The corresponding values include nominals (in-cluding N or NP), clausals (including V, A, VP,2As one of the reviewers pointed out, our study has somelimitations as it only refers to two previous studies, Hallidayand Hasan (1976) and Botley and McEnery (2001).
Al-though we are aware of the other fundamental work includ-ing demonstratives in a broader range of referential expres-sions such as Gundel et al (1993), Prince (1981), Nissim etal.
(2004), etc., we choose to focus on Korean demonstra-tives because their exact grammatical functions have notbeen comprehensively studied in existing literature.
In addi-tion, developing a broader classification system for referen-tial expressions in Korean is a challenging task from boththeoretical and empirical perspectives; linguistic analyses ofKorean nominal expressions must deal with controversialissues such as definiteness without articles, zero elementsfunctioning as anaphors, unsystematic morphological mark-ing of plurality and genericity, etc.163AP, etc.
), and sentential elements (S or Ss formore than two sentences).3The feature semantic function of an antece-dent includes values of nominal entities, events,and propositions.
This feature will be expandedinto specified values such as event, process, state,and circumstances in our future study.
Phorictype has been adopted from Botley and McEnery(2001) and refers to two distinct relations: refer-ence and substitution.
According to Halliday andHasan, substitution is a relation between linguis-tic forms, whereas reference is a relation betweenmeanings.
The values of phoric type also includenon-phoric such as exophora whose antecedentsexist outside the text.The annotation features and values we useare summarized in Table 1.Feature Value1  Value2 Value 3 Value4LexicalCategory (L)AN(adnoun)PR(Pronoun)LPR(Locativepronoun)EX(Excla-mation)Endophorici-ty (O)A(anaphor)C(cataphor)Exophoricity(X)T(situation-al)D(deictic)SyntacticFunction (F)NO(nominals)CL(clausal)S(sentential)SemanticFunction (M)N(entities)E (event)P(proposi-tions)Phoric Type(H)R(reference)U(Substitu-tion)K(non-phoric)Table 1 Annotation Features and Possible ValuesThe initial results of inter-annotator agreementbetween two trained annotators are promising.Cohen?s Kappa is 0.76 for the average agreementof six high level categories and it increases fol-lowing a discussion period (K = 0.83, K=2)4.3 ResultsWe identified 1,235 demonstratives in our pilotstudy.
The distributions of demonstratives weresignificantly different between the spoken and3Although the syntactic category of an antecedent can bedifferentiated in a more sophisticated way using phrasalcategories such as NP, VP, AdvP, etc.
(as well as lexicalcategories), this will render the annotation process nearlyimpossible unless one uses a corpus with syntactic annota-tion, such as treebanks.
Thus, we use simplified syntacticinformation such as nominal, clausal, and sentential.4The agreement rate was calculated for each six high levelcategories separately and then averaged.
The syntactic func-tion has the lowest agreement rate even after the discussion(K=0.76).
This is due to complex properties of Korean de-monstratives with unclear boundaries between exclamatoryexpressions and other lexical categories.the written corpora.
Table 2 shows the raw fre-quencies in the spoken and the written corporafor each combination of feature and value out-lined in Table 1.
The raw frequencies are sup-plemented with the log likelihood in order toshow the significance for frequency differencesin the two corpora in Table 2.
Each demonstra-tive is followed by a two-character code sepa-rated by underscore.
The first character denotesthe feature and the second the value.
For exam-ple, the first item kulen ?that (kind of)?
whoselexical category (L) is adnoun (AN) mostly ap-peared in the spoken corpus and not in the writ-ten corpus.5Feature                      S            W             LLkulen_L_AN 183 14 177.7kulen_H_R 178 14 171.3kulen_O_A 163 14 152.4kuke(s)_L_PR         202 38 128.5kuke(s)_H_R 187 38 112.5ku_L_EX   114 9 109.6i_O_A  6 105 104.0kuke(s)_O_A 172 38 97.0kulen_F_NO 69 2 82.4ike(s)_H_K 68 3 75.7ike(s)_X_D 63 2 74.3Table 2 Frequency of Demonstrative FeaturesWhereas 931 demonstratives appeared in thespoken corpus, only 304 appeared in the writtencorpus.
The distributions of three different typesof demonstratives are listed in Table 3.TypesTotalFrequencyWritten SpokenFreq.
% Freq.
%i  398 176 56 222 44ku  773 128 17 645 83ce  64 0 0 64 100Total 1235 304 25 931 75Table 3 Distribution of Three Demonstrative TypesThe spoken corpus and the written corpus showdifferent preferences for i, ku, and ce types.Written: i  (58%)  > ku (42%)  > ce (0%)Spoken: ku (69%) > i (24%)  > ce (7%)Whereas ku demonstratives are preferred to cor-responding i demonstratives in the spoken corpus,i demonstratives are preferred in the written cor-5In Table 2, the log likelihood scores show that the usage ofkulen is significantly different in the spoken and the writtencorpus.
The log-likelihood scores in Table 2 are significantat a 99 percent confidence level with 1 degree of freedom ifthey are greater than 6.6.
We only show a partial frequencylist here due to the space limitations.164pus.
This fact is associated with the linguisticfunction of ku that represents a speaker?s desireto anchor interpersonal involvement with thehearer by actively inviting the hearer?s voluntaryunderstanding of the target referent.
In contrast, idemonstratives imply that the speaker (writer)intends to incorporate the hearer (reader) withinthe proximal cognitive distance.
In terms of an-notation features, our findings are summarized asfollows.Lexical category: In both the written andspoken corpora, adnominal demonstratives aremore frequently used than pronouns or locativepronouns.
Demonstrative forms used as intensifi-ers, hedges, or personal habitual noise have beenmarked as exclamatives.
Annotators have foundthat it is often difficult to clearly distinguishthem from adnominal demonstratives.Endophoricity: Our written corpus does notinclude any cataphors, whereas the spoken cor-pus shows 61 cases (cf.
523 anaphors).
This factseems to be related to the speaker?s discoursestrategy of intending to call the discourse partici-pants?
attention by placing an endophoric ele-ment before its antecedent.Exophoricity: Exophoric usage of demonstr-atives in the written corpus is very limited.
Only17 cases were found (6 deixis vs. 11 context-based).
In the spoken corpus, exophoric usagesoccur more frequently across three types of de-monstratives.
The deictic usage dominates thecontext-based usage (151 deixis vs. 79 context-based).
As noted in previous literature, ce de-monstratives mainly appear in deictic context,where its antecedent is visible or exists in thegiven situation.
There seems to be a constraint ofdeictic usage of ce involving physical existenceor visibility (or cognitive awareness) of an entityin addition to distance.
This hypothesis needs tobe further investigated with additional data.Syntactic and Semantic Function: All threetypes of i, ku, and ce demonstratives refer to no-minal entities as their antecedents.
Although iand ku demonstratives are also used to refer toclausals and sentential elements, only a few ex-amples of ce replace clausal or sentential ele-ments.
Another notable point is that i and ku de-monstratives refer to clausal or sentential ele-ments (corresponding to events or propositions)more frequently than nominal entities in bothspoken and written corpora.
59% of the antece-dents of i demonstratives (56% for ku type) inthe written corpus are clausals or sentential ele-ments, whereas 53% of the antecedents of i type(69% for ku type) are in the spoken corpus.
Thisresult needs to be tested on a larger corpus in ourfuture study.Phoric Type: In our annotated corpus, weonly found referential examples, not substitu-tional cases.
Exophoric examples are marked asnon-phoric.
In the written corpus, referential de-monstratives are predominant (285 cases) and asmall number of non-phoric cases are observed(18 cases).
In the spoken corpus, referential de-monstratives are more frequent (590 cases), whe-reas non-phoric cases have been more observedthan in the written corpus (198 cases).3 ConclusionIn this paper we presented a corpus-based studyon Korean demonstratives.
Six annotation fea-tures were used to mark complex linguistic func-tions of demonstratives.
Using spoken and writ-ten corpora, we compared different usages ofKorean demonstratives and showed that theirusages are different depending on the registers ofspoken and written Korean.In spite of the deictic functions of demonstra-tives highlighted in previous research, our studyindicates that endophoric usage is more predo-minant.
This hypothesis, as well as others in thisstudy, will be tested with a large corpus in ourfuture work.
We also plan to incorporate moresophisticated exploitation on semantic types ofantecedents.
This information will be useful forresolving the meaning of anaphoric demonstra-tives.ReferencesBotley, Simon and Tony McEnery.
2001.
Demonstra-tives in English.
Journal of English Linguistics,29(1): 7-33.Chang, Kyung-Hee.
1980.
Semantic Analysis of De-monstrative i, ku, ce.
Ehakyenku,16(2):167-0184.Chang, Seok-Jin 1984.
Cisiwa Coung.
Hangul, 186:115-149.Gundel, Jaeanette, Nancy Hedberg, and Ron Zachars-ki.
1993.
Cognitive Status and the Form of Re-ferring Expressions in Discourse.
Language,69(2):274-307.Halliday, M.A.K.
and Ruqaiya Hasan.
1976.
Cohe-sion in English.
London: Longman.Min, Kyung Mo.
2008.
A Study on Reference Items inKorean.
Ph.D. Dissertation.
Yonsei University.Poesio, Massimo.
2004.
The MATE/GNOMEScheme for Anaphoric Annotation, Revisited.
InProceedings of SIGDIAL.
Boston.Prince, Ellen.
1981.
Toward a Taxonomy of Given-New Information.
Radical Pragmatics: 223-255.Academic Press.
New York.165
