Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 72?80,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Exploration of Mining Gene Expression Mentions and theirAnatomical Locations from Biomedical TextMartin GernerFaculty of Life SciencesUniversity of ManchesterManchester, UKmartin.gerner@postgrad.manchester.ac.ukGoran NenadicSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity of ManchesterManchester, UKg.nenadic@manchester.ac.ukCasey M. BergmanFaculty of Life SciencesUniversity of ManchesterManchester, UKcasey.bergman@manchester.ac.ukAbstractHere we explore mining data on gene expres-sion from the biomedical literature andpresent Gene Expression Text Miner(GETM), a tool for extraction of informationabout the expression of genes and their ana-tomical locations from text.
Provided withrecognized gene mentions, GETM identifiesmentions of anatomical locations and celllines, and extracts text passages where au-thors discuss the expression of a particulargene in specific anatomical locations or celllines.
This enables the automatic constructionof expression profiles for both genes and ana-tomical locations.
Evaluated against a ma-nually extended version of the BioNLP '09corpus, GETM achieved precision and recalllevels of 58.8% and 23.8%, respectively.
Ap-plication of GETM to MEDLINE andPubMed Central yielded over 700,000 geneexpression mentions.
This data set may bequeried through a web interface, and shouldprove useful not only for researchers who areinterested in the developmental regulation ofspecific genes of interest, but also for data-base curators aiming to create structured re-positories of gene expression information.The compiled tool, its source code, the ma-nually annotated evaluation corpus and asearch query interface to the data set ex-tracted from MEDLINE and  PubMed Cen-tral is available at http://getm-project.sourceforge.net/.1 IntroductionWith almost 2000 articles being published dailyin 2009, the amount of available research litera-ture in the biomedical domain is increasing ra-pidly.
Currently, MEDLINE contains referencerecords for almost 20 million articles (with about10 million abstracts), and PubMed Central(PMC) contains almost two million full-text ar-ticles.
These resources store an enormous wealthof information, but are proving increasingly dif-ficult to navigate and interpret.
This is true bothfor researchers seeking information on a particu-lar subject and for database curators aiming tocollect and annotate information in a structuredmanner.Text-mining tools aim to alleviate this prob-lem by extracting structured information fromunstructured text.
Considerable attention hasbeen given to some areas in text-mining, such asrecognizing named entities (e.g.
species, genesand drugs) (Rebholz-Schuhmann et al, 2007;Hakenberg et al, 2008; Gerner et al, 2010) andextracting molecular relationships, e.g.
protein-protein interactions (Donaldson et al, 2003;Plake et al, 2006; Chowdhary et al, 2009).Many other areas of text mining in the biomedi-cal domain are less mature, including the extrac-tion of information about the expression of genes(Kim et al, 2009).
The literature contains a largeamount of information about where and whengenes are expressed, as knowledge about the ex-pression of a gene is critical for understanding itsfunction and has therefore often been reported aspart of gene studies.
Gene expression profilesfrom genome-wide studies are available in spe-cialized databases such as the NCBI Gene Ex-pression Omnibus (Barrett et al, 2009) andFlyAtlas (Chintapalli et al, 2007), but results ongene expression from smaller studies remainlocked in the primary literature.Previously, a number of data-mining projectshave combined text-mining methods with struc-tured genome-wide gene expression data in order72to allow further interpretation of the gene expres-sion data (Natarajan et al, 2006; Fundel, 2007).However, only recently has interest in text-mining tools aimed at extracting gene expressionprofiles from primary literature started to grow.The 2009 BioNLP shared task (Kim et al, 2009)aimed at extracting biological "events", whereone of the event types was gene expression.
Forthis event type, participants were asked to deter-mine locations in text documents where authorsdiscussed the expression of a gene or protein andextract a trigger keyword (e.g.
"expression") andits associated gene participant (the gene whoseexpression is discussed).
The group that achievedthe highest accuracy on the "simple event" task(where gene expression extraction was included)achieved recall and precision levels of 64.2% and77.5%, respectively (Bj?rne et al, 2009).
A keylimitation of the 2009 shared task was that allgenes had been annotated prior to the beginningof the task, making it difficult to anticipate theaccuracy of tools that do not rely on pre-annotated entities.Biologists are interested not only in findingstatements of gene expression events, but also inknowing where and when a gene is expressed.However, to the best of our knowledge, no efforthas previously been made to extract and map theexpression of genes to specific tissues and celltypes (and vice versa) from the literature.
Thus,we have taken preliminary steps to construct asoftware tool, named Gene Expression TextMiner (GETM), capable of extracting informa-tion about what genes are expressed and wherethey are expressed.
An additional goal of thiswork is to apply this tool to the whole of MED-LINE and PMC, and make both the tool and theextracted data available to researchers.We anticipate that the data extracted byGETM will provide researchers an overviewabout where a specific gene is expressed, or whatgenes are expressed in a specific anatomical lo-cation.
Moreover, GETM will aid in the curationof gene expression databases by providing textpassages and identifiers to database curators forverification.2 MethodsAn overview of the workflow of GETM is givenin Figure 1.
Articles are initially scanned formentions of gene entities, anatomical entities andkeywords indicating the discussion of gene ex-pression (called triggers following BioNLP ter-minology, e.g.
"expression" and "expressed in").After the detection of the entities and triggers,abbreviations are detected and entities aregrouped in the cases of enumerations.
Finally,sentences are split and each sentence isprocessed in order to associate triggers with geneand anatomical entities.
Each step is describedbelow in more detail.2.1 Named entity recognition and abbrevia-tion detectionIn order to extract information on the expressionof genes and their anatomical locations, a keyrequirement is the accurate recognition and nor-malization (mapping the recognized terms to da-tabase identifiers) of both the genes and anatom-ical locations in question.
In order to locate andidentify gene names, we utilized GNAT (Haken-berg et al, 2008), an inter-species gene namerecognition software package.
Among the genename recognition tools capable of gene normali-zation, GNAT is currently showing the best ac-curacy (compared to the BioCreative corpora(Hirschman et al, 2005; Morgan et al, 2008)).The species identification component of GNAT,used to help disambiguate gene mentions acrossspecies, was performed by LINNAEUS (Gerneret al, 2010).In order to perform named entity recognition(NER) of anatomical locations, we investigatedthe use of various anatomical ontologies.
A keychallenge with these ontologies is that the termsNER, triggerdetectionGen(GNAT)Anatomy(Dictionaries)ArticlesTriggers(Dictionaries)Detectenumerations andabbreviationsSentence splittingDetermine geneand anatomytargets of triggersResults(web access)Figure 1.
Schematic overview of the processing workflow of GETM.73vary significantly from one species to another.For example, fruit flies have wings while humansdo not, and humans have fingers, while fruit fliesdo not.
Efforts have been made in creating uni-fied species-independent anatomical ontologies,such as Uberon (Haendel et al, 2009; Mungall etal., 2010).
However, in preliminary experimentswe found that the coverage of Uberon was notextensive enough for this particular application(data not shown), motivating us to instead use acombination of various species-specific anatomi-cal ontologies hosted at the OBO Foundry(Smith et al, 2007).
These ontologies (n = 13)were chosen in order to cover terms from themain model organisms that are used in research(e.g.
human, fruit fly, mouse, Caenorhabditiselegans) and a few larger groups of organismssuch as e.g.
amphibians and fungi.
It is worthnoting that the more general terms, such as e.g.
"brain", are likely to match anatomical locationsin other species as well.
In total, the selected on-tologies contain terms for 38,459 different ana-tomical locations.We also utilized an ontology of cell lines(Romano et al, 2009), containing terms for atotal of 8,408 cell lines (ranging across 60 spe-cies), as cell lines can be viewed as biologicalproxies for the anatomical locations that gaverise to them.
For example, the HeLa cell line wasderived from human cervical cells, and the THP1cell line was derived from human monocytes(Romano et al, 2009).The anatomical and cell line NER, utilizingthe OBO Foundry and cell line ontologies, wasperformed using dictionary-matching methodssimilar to those employed by LINNAEUS(Gerner et al, 2010).After performing gene and anatomical NERon the document, abbreviations were detected(using the algorithm by Schwartz and Hearst(2003)) in order to allow the detection and mar-kup of abbreviated entity names in the caseswhere the abbreviations do not exist in any of theontologies that are used.2.2 Trigger detectionThe trigger keywords indicating that an author isdiscussing the expression of one or severalgenes, such as e.g.
"expression" and "expressedin" were detected using a manually created list ofregular expressions.
The regular expressionswere designed to match variations of a set ofterms, listed below, that were identified wheninspecting documents not used when building thegold-standard corpus (see Section 3.1).The terms used to construct the trigger regularexpressions were orthographical, morphologicaland derivational variations of "expression", "pro-duction" and "transcription".
Descriptions of thelevel of expression were also considered for thedifferent terms, such as "over-expression," "un-der-expression," "positively expressed," "nega-tively expressed," etc.Each gene expression mention that has beenextracted by GETM contains information aboutthe trigger term used by the author, allowing re-searchers to look only at e.g.
the "negative" men-tions (where genes are e.g.
"under-expressed" or"negatively expressed") or the "positive" men-tions (where genes are e.g.
"over-expressed").2.3 Association of entities to the triggerTo help associate triggers with the correct geneand anatomical entities, articles were first splitinto sentences, allowing each sentence to beprocessed in turn.
In order to reduce the numberof false positives and preserve a high level ofprecision, any sentences that did not contain atrigger, at least one gene mention and at least oneanatomical mention were ignored.
For the sen-tences that did contain a combination of all threerequirements (trigger, gene and anatomical men-tion), the following pattern- and distance-basedrules were employed in order to associate eachtrigger with the correct gene and anatomicalmention:1.
If there is only one gene mention and onlyone anatomical mention in the sentence, thetrigger is associated with those mentions.2.
If there is one gene mention (G) and oneanatomical mention (A) in the sentencesuch that they match one of the patterns"<G> is expressed in <A>", "expression of<G> in <A>", "<A> transcribes <G>" or"<A> produces <G>", the gene mention<G> and anatomical mention <A> are asso-ciated with the trigger (variations of thetriggers, such as "over-expressed" and"negative expression" are considered aswell).
Additional gene or anatomical men-tions that fall outside the pattern are ig-nored.3.
If neither of the above rules applies, thetrigger is associated with the gene and ana-tomical mentions that are closest to the trig-ger.For the purposes of these rules, an enumera-tion of several genes or anatomical locations was74handled as if it was only a single mention.
Forexample, Rule 1 might trigger even if there areseveral genes mentioned in the same sentence, aslong as they are mentioned together as part of anenumeration.In order to detect these enumerations, a rule-based algorithm for connecting enumerated geneand anatomical entity mentions (as in e.g.
"...RelB and DC-CK1 gene expression ...") was alsoimplemented.
Being able to detect enumerationsallowed the rules described above to recognizethat a particular gene expression mention do notrefer to only e.g.
"RelB" or "DC-CK1", but bothof them at the same time.Each trigger was processed independently, al-lowing the potential extraction of multiple geneexpression statements from a single sentence.Initially, experiments were performed usingstricter rules where only variations of Rule 2,requiring gene and anatomical mentions to con-form to certain patterns, were used.
However,recall was in these cases found to be extremelylow (below 5%, data not shown).
The currentrules are more permissive, allowing higher recall.The fact that the method requires a combina-tion of a trigger, a gene and an anatomical loca-tion makes it susceptible to false negatives: ifany one of them cannot be found by the NER ortrigger detection methods, the whole combina-tion is missed.3 Evaluation3.1 Extending the BioNLP shared taskgold-standard corpusIn order to make a meaningful evaluation of theaccuracy of text-mining applications, a gold-standard corpus, consisting of manually anno-tated mentions for a set of documents, is re-quired.
Previously, no such corpus existed thatwas suitable for this problem (providing annota-tions linked to mentions of both gene and ana-tomical locations).
However, the BioNLP corpus(Ohta et al, 2009) which is based on the GENIAcorpus (Kim et al, 2008), does contain annota-tions about gene expression.
Annotations in thecorpus contain trigger terms that are linked togenes (or gene products) where the authors dis-cuss gene expression.
However, anatomical loca-tions have not been annotated in this corpus.In order to allow evaluation of the accuracy ofour software, we extended the annotations ofgene expression events in part of the BioNLPcorpus.
Each gene expression entry in the corpuswas linked to the anatomical location or cell linethat the author mentioned.
In cases where geneexpression was only discussed generally withoutreferring to expression in a particular location, noassociation to an anatomical location could bemade (these entries were ignored during evalua-tion).
Note that named entities were only linkedto their locations in the text, not to unique data-base identifiers (such as Entrez Gene or OBOFoundry identifiers).
Because of this, subsequentevaluation in this extended corpus is limited tothe accuracy of recognition (locating the entitiesin the text), but not normalization (linking theentities to database identifiers).In total, annotations for 150 abstracts (consti-tuting the development set of the BioNLP cor-pus) were extended to also include anatomicallocations.
These abstracts contained 377 anno-tated gene expression events, of which 267(71%) could be linked to anatomical locations.These results demonstrate that the majority ofgene expression mentions include reference to ananatomical location.
For a few cases where theauthor described the expression of a gene in sev-eral cell types, a single gene expression eventgave rise to several distinct "entries" in the ex-tended corpus, creating a total of 279 final geneexpression entries that are linked to anatomicallocations.4 ResultsIn order to evaluate the accuracy of GETM, itwas first run on the 150 abstracts in the gold-standard corpus, after which the extracted resultswere compared against the annotations of thecorpus.
GETM was also applied to the whole ofMEDLINE and PMC, in order to extract a sear-chable and structured data set of gene expressionmentions in published biomedical articles.4.1 AccuracyThe gene expression mentions extracted byGETM from the corpus were compared againstthe manually created annotations in order to es-timate the accuracy of the software.
After in-specting the false positives and false negatives,we noted that a number of the false positives ac-tually were correctly identified by our systemand had been marked as false positives only be-cause of incomplete annotations in the corpus.Because of this, all false positives were manuallyexamined in order to determine the "correct"number of false positives.
For one of the cor-rected expression mentions, two anatomical loca-tions were enumerated, with GETM only locat-75ing one of them.
This introduced both a new truepositive (for the one that was recognized) and anew false negative (for the one that was not).
Thenumber of true positives, false positives, falsenegatives, precision and recall (before and aftercorrection) are shown in Table 1.Original CorrectedTP 53 67FP 61 (p = 46.5%) 47 (p = 58.8%)FN 214 (r = 19.8%) 215 (r = 23.8%)Table 1.
The number of true positives (TP), falsepositives (FP), false negatives (FN) and levels ofprecision (p) and recall (r) for GETM whencompared against the gold-standard corpus.4.2 Analysis of false negativesIn order to determine the causes of the relativelyhigh number of false negatives, the gene entities,anatomical entities and triggers identified byGNAT and GETM were compared to the ex-tended corpus, allowing us to determine thenumber of corpus entities that could not be foundby the GNAT and GETM NER tools.
An analy-sis was also performed in order to determine thenumber of corpus entries that were spread acrossseveral sentences, as any expression mentionsspread over several sentences are missed byGETM.The analysis results can be seen in Table 2,showing that virtually all false negatives arecaused either by incomplete NER or multi-sentence entries.
Only considering the NER, 68%of the gold-standard corpus annotated entriescontain either a trigger (example FN: "detected"),gene (example FN: CD4) or anatomical location(example FN: "lymphoblastoid cells") that couldnot be located automatically.
GETM was furtherlimited by entities being spread across severalsentences (n=66, 23.6%).
In total, 74.3% of allentries could not be extracted correctly due toeither incomplete NER, incomplete trigger detec-tion or the entities being spread across multiplesentences.
This limited recall to 25.7%, even ifthe rule-based method was working perfectly.4.3 Analysis of false positivesManual inspection of the false positives (afteradjusting the false positives caused by incom-plete annotations) allowed the identification ofone clear cause: if the NER methods fail to rec-ognize the entity associated with a manually an-notated expression entry, but there are other enti-ties (that have been recognized) in the sentence,those entities might be incorrectly associatedwith the trigger instead.
For example, in the sen-tence "In conclusion, these data show that IL-10induces c-fos expression in human B-cells byactivation of tyrosine and serine/threonine kinas-es."
(Bonig et al, 1996) (the correct entities andtrigger are italicized), a correctly extracted entrywould link c-fos to B-cells through the triggerexpression.
However, the gene NER componentfailed to recognize c-fos but did recognize IL-10,causing GETM to incorrectly associate IL-10with B-cells.
Either increasing the accuracy ofthe NER methods or performing deeper gram-matical parsing could potentially reduce thenumber of false positives of this type.
We notethat the number of cases for this category (n =15; 34%) only make up a minority of the totalnumber of false positives, and the remainderhave no easily identifiable common cause.4.4 Application to MEDLINE and PMCdocumentsGETM was applied to the whole set of10,240,192 MEDLINE entries from the 2010baseline files that contain an abstract (manyMEDLINE entries do not contain an abstract).From these abstracts, 578,319 statements couldbe extracted containing information about theexpression of a gene and the location of this ex-pression.
In addition, GETM was also applied tothe set of 186,616 full-text articles that make upthe open-access portion of PMC (downloadedFebruary 5th, 2010).
The full-text articles al-lowed the extraction of 145,796 statements (an18-fold increase in entries per article comparedProblem type Number of occurrencesTrigger not found 58 (20.7%)Gene not found 139 (49.6%)Anatomical location not found 74 (26.4%)Any of the entities or trigger not found 190 (67.9%)Total number of entities not contained in a single sentence 66 (23.6%)Total number of entities either not found or not in the same sentence 208 (74.3%)Table 2.
Breakdown of the causes for false negatives in GETM, relative to the total number ofentries in the gold-standard corpus.76to the MEDLINE abstracts).
In total, 716,541statements were extracted, not counting the ab-stracts in MEDLINE that also appear in PMC.Overall, the combined extracted informationranges across 25,525 different genes (the mostcommon being tumor necrosis factor (TNF su-perfamily, member 2) in human) and 3,655 dif-ferent anatomical locations (the most commonbeing T cells).
The most common combinationconcerns the expression of human interleukin 2in T cells.
The 10 most commonly mentionedcombinations of genes and anatomical locationsare shown in Table 3.
Overall, these results sug-gest that studies on gene expression in the fieldof mammalian immunology are the dominantsignal in MEDLINE and PMC.
The genes thatwere recognized and normalized range across 15species, out of the 23 supported by GNAT (Ha-kenberg et al, 2008).
The most common speciesis human, as expected (Gerner et al, 2010), fol-lowed by mouse, rat, chicken and cow.The majority of statements were associated toanatomical locations from the OBO Foundry on-tologies (n=649,819; 89.7%), while the remaind-er were associated to cell lines (n=74,294;10.3%).
This result demonstrates the importanceof taking cell lines into account when attemptingto identify anatomical entities.Finally, a total of 73,721 (11.7%) of the state-ments extracted from MEDLINE contained ei-ther genes or anatomical locations that had beenenumerated by the author, underscoring the im-portance of considering enumerations when de-signing text-mining algorithms.4.5 AvailabilityGETM is available under an open source license,and researchers may freely download GETM, itssource code and the extended gold-standard cor-pus from http://getm-project.sourceforge.net/.Also available on the web site is a search queryinterface where researchers may search for ex-tracted gene expression entries relating to a par-ticular gene, anatomical location or a combina-tion of the two and view these in the context ofthe surrounding text.5 Discussion5.1 Overview of design philosophyWhen constructing text-mining applications, abalance between precision (reflecting the relativenumber of false positives) and recall (reflectingthe relative number of false negatives) is oftenused to optimize system performance.
Accor-dingly, a measure which often is used to evaluatethe accuracy of software is the F-score (the har-monic mean of the precision and recall).
In thiswork, we have decided that rather than trying tomaximize the F-score, we have put more focuson precision in order to ensure that the data ex-tracted by GETM are of as high quality as possi-ble.
This typically leads to lower recall, causingthe software to detect a relatively smaller numberof relevant passages.
Nonetheless, we believethat for this particular application, a smalleramount of data with higher quality would bemore useful to curators and biologists than alarger amount of data that is less reliable.5.2 Comparison with previous workIt is difficult to compare the precision and recalllevels of GETM (at 58.8% and 23.8%, respec-tively) against other tools, as GETM is the firsttool aiming to perform this particular task.
Theclosest comparison that can be made is againstthe software evaluated in the BioNLP shared task(Kim et al, 2009).
However, software developedfor the BioNLP shared task did not attempt toextract the anatomical location of gene expres-sion mentions, nor did they need to identify thecomponent entities involved.
The tool with thehighest accuracy for the simple event task (wheregene expression extraction was included) showedGene Anatomical location Number of mentionsInterleukin 2 T cells 3511Interferon, gamma T cells 2088CD4 T cells 1623TNF Macrophages 1596TNF Monocytes 1539Interleukin 4 T cells 1323Integrin, alpha M Neutrophils 1063Inteleukin 10 T cells 971ICAM 1 Endothelial cells 964Interleukin 2 Lymphocytes 876Table 3.
The ten most commonly mentioned combinations of genes and anatomical locations77precision and recall levels of 77.5% and 64.2%,respectively (Bj?rne et al, 2009).
It is not clearhow tools evaluated in the 2009 BioNLP sharedtask would perform if they identified entitiesthemselves rather than using pre-annotated enti-ties.5.3 Limits on accuracyWhen investigating the cause of the low level ofrecall, the main reason that emerged for the highnumber of false negatives was the high numberof annotated entries that could not be automati-cally extracted due to at least one of the gene,anatomical or trigger mentions not being recog-nized.
This fact underscores the importance ofaccurate NER for applications that rely on theextracted entity mentions, especially those thatattempt to extract information from multiple enti-ty types, like GETM.
The results also demon-strate that NER, particularly in the case of genename normalization, continues to pose a chal-lenging problem.
It is possible that using a com-bination of GNAT and other gene NER toolswould improve the overall gene NER accuracy.We further explored the effects of "perfect"gene NER on the accuracy of GETM by usingthe manual gene mention annotations supplied inthe BioNLP corpus.
Using the pre-annotatedgene names increased the number of gene ex-pression mentions recognized and the number oftrue positives, significantly improving recall(from 23.8% to 37.8%; data not shown).
Howev-er, a number of additional false positives werealso introduced, causing precision to decreasevery slightly from 58.8% to 58.5% (data notshown).
This demonstrates the complexity ofgene expression mentions in text, indicating thata combination of accurate trigger detection, ac-curate NER (for both genes and anatomical loca-tions) and deeper NLP methods are needed inorder to accurately capture gene expression pro-files in text.A secondary cause of false negatives was arelatively high number of annotated corpus en-tries that spanned several sentences.
The highproportion (23%) of multi-sentence entries in ourextended corpus differs from previously reportedresults.
For the event annotations in the BioNLPcorpus, previous analyses showed that only 5%of all entries spanned several sentences (Bj?rneet al, 2009).
This suggests that the mentions ofanatomical locations are located outside of the"trigger sentence" more often than gene mentionsor other entities in the BioNLP corpus.6 ConclusionsIn this paper, we have explored integrated min-ing of gene expression mentions and their ana-tomical locations from the literature and pre-sented a new tool, GETM, which can be used toextract information about the expression of genesand where they are expressed from biomedicaltext.
We have also extended part of a previouslyexisting gold-standard corpus in order to allowevaluation of GETM.
When evaluated againstthe gold-standard corpus, GETM performed withprecision and recall levels of 58.8% and 23.8%,respectively.The relatively low level of recall was primari-ly caused by incomplete recognition of individu-al entities, indicating that ?
in order to increasethe recall of GETM ?
future work would primari-ly need to focus on increasing the accuracy of theNER methods.
With more accurate NER, whileincreasing recall, the higher number of recog-nized entities is also expected to increase thenumber of false positives, causing a need fordeeper NLP methods in order to preserve andincrease the level of precision.While having a low level of recall, GETM wasnonetheless able to extract 716,541 statementsfrom MEDLINE and PMC, constituting a largeand potentially useful data set for researcherswishing to get an overview of gene expressionfor a particular gene or anatomical location.
Thehigh number of mentions extracted from MED-LINE can give an indication of the amount ofdata available in MEDLINE: if the recall on theBioNLP corpus is representative for MEDLINEas a whole, a tool with perfect accuracy might beable to extract almost 2.5 million entries.The level of precision (p = 58.8%) will mostlikely not be high enough for researchers to relyon the extracted data for high-throughput bioin-formatical experiments without some kind ofverification.
However, we believe that it none-theless will be of high enough quality that re-searchers and curators will not feel inconve-nienced by false positives, as currently the onlyalternatives are multi-word free text searchesthrough PubMed or Google.
Additionally, weprovide an interface with the text context sur-rounding gene expression statements, making iteasier for researchers to quickly locate relevantresults.In the future, we will aim to evaluate the nor-malization of entities detected by GETM in orderto quantify the level to which the identifiers as-signed to the entities are correct.
In addition,78both the gene and anatomical NER componentscould be improved in order to both reduce thenumber of false negatives and cover gene andanatomical terms for a wider range of species,beyond the common model organisms.
We alsobelieve that extending this work by utilizing dee-per NLP methods (e.g.
dependency parsers)could further improve the accuracy of GETMand related approaches to mining the abundanceof data on gene expression in the biomedical lite-rature.AcknowledgementsWe thank J?rg Hakenberg (Arizona State Uni-versity) for providing access to GNAT.
We alsothank members of the Bergman and Nenadicgroups for helpful comments and suggestionsthroughout the project, and three anonymous re-viewers of this article for valuable comments thathelped improve the manuscript.
This work wasfunded by the University of Manchester and aBBSRC CASE studentship (to M.G.
).ReferencesBarrett, T., Troup, D. B., Wilhite, S. E., Ledoux, P.,Rudnev, D., Evangelista, C., Kim, I. F., Soboleva,A., Tomashevsky, M., Marshall, K. A., Phillippy,K.
H., Sherman, P. M., Muertter, R. N. and Edgar,R.
(2009).
"NCBI GEO: archive for high-throughput functional genomic data."
Nucleic Ac-ids Res 37(Database issue): D885-90.Bj?rne, J., Heimonen, J., Ginter, F., Airola, A.,Pahikkala, T. and Salakoski, T. (2009).
"Extractingcomplex biological events with rich graph-basedfeature sets."
In Proceedings of the Workshop onBioNLP: Shared Task  Boulder, Colorado: 10-18.Bonig, H., Korholz, D., Pafferath, B., Mauz-Korholz,C.
and Burdach, S. (1996).
"Interleukin 10 inducedc-fos expression in human B cells by activation ofdivergent protein kinases."
Immunol Invest 25(1-2): 115-28.Chintapalli, V. R., Wang, J. and Dow, J.
A. T.
(2007).
"Using FlyAtlas to identify better Drosophila mod-els of human disease."
Nature Genetics 39: 715-720.Chowdhary, R., Zhang, J. and Liu, J. S.
(2009).
"Bayesian inference of protein-protein interactionsfrom biological literature."
Bioinformatics 25(12):1536-42.Donaldson, I., Martin, J., de Bruijn, B., Wolting, C.,Lay, V., Tuekam, B., Zhang, S., Baskin, B., Bader,G.
D., Michalickova, K., Pawson, T. and Hogue, C.W.
(2003).
"PreBIND and Textomy--mining thebiomedical literature for protein-protein interac-tions using a support vector machine."
BMC Bioin-formatics 4: 11.Fundel, K. (2007).
Text Mining and Gene ExpressionAnalysis Towards Combined Interpretation ofHigh Throughput Data.
Dissertation.
Faculty ofMathematics, Computer Science and Statistics.M?nchen, Ludwig-Maximilians Universit?t.Gerner, M., Nenadic, G. and Bergman, C. M.
(2010).
"LINNAEUS: a species name identification systemfor biomedical literature."
BMC Bioinformatics 11:85.Haendel, M. A., Gkoutos, G. V., Lewis, S. E. andMungall, C. J.
(2009).
"Uberon: towards a compre-hensive multi-species anatomy ontology."
In Inter-national Conference on Biomedical Ontology Buf-falo, NY.Hakenberg, J., Plake, C., Leaman, R., Schroeder, M.and Gonzales, G. (2008).
"Inter-species normaliza-tion of gene mentions with GNAT."
Bioinformatics24(16): i126-i132.Hirschman, L., Yeh, A., Blaschke, C. and Valencia,A.
(2005).
"Overview of BioCreAtIvE: critical as-sessment of information extraction for biology.
"BMC Bioinformatics 6 Suppl 1: S1.Kim, J. D., Ohta, T., Pyysalo, S., Kano, Y. and Tsujii,J.
i.
(2009).
"Overview of BioNLP?09 Shared Taskon Event Extraction."
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on BioNLP: Shared Task, Boulder, Colorado,Association for Computational Linguistics: 1-9.Kim, J. D., Ohta, T. and Tsujii, J.
(2008).
"Corpusannotation for mining biomedical events from lite-rature."
BMC Bioinformatics 9: 10.Morgan, A., Lu, Z., Wang, X., Cohen, A., Fluck, J.,Ruch, P., Divoli, A., Fundel, K., Leaman, R., Ha-kenberg, J., Sun, C., Liu, H., Torres, R., Krau-thammer, M., Lau, W., Liu, H., Hsu, C., Schuemie,M., Cohen, K. and Hirschman, L. (2008).
"Over-view of BioCreative II gene normalization."
Ge-nome Biology 9(Suppl 2): S3.Mungall, C. J., Gkoutos, G. V., Smith, C. L., Haendel,M.
A., Lewis, S. E. and Ashburner, M. (2010).
"In-tegrating phenotype ontologies across multiplespecies."
Genome Biol 11(1): R2.Natarajan, J., Berrar, D., Dubitzky, W., Hack, C.,Zhang, Y., DeSesa, C., Van Brocklyn, J. R. andBremer, E. G. (2006).
"Text mining of full-textjournal articles combined with gene expressionanalysis reveals a relationship between sphingo-sine-1-phosphate and invasiveness of a glioblasto-ma cell line."
BMC Bioinformatics 7: 373.Ohta, T., Kim, J.-D., Pyysalo, S., Wang, Y. and Tsu-jii, J. i.
(2009).
"Incorporating GENETAG-styleannotation to GENIA corpus."
In Workshop on Bi-oNLP, Boulder, Colorado: 106-107.79Plake, C., Schiemann, T., Pankalla, M., Hakenberg, J.and Leser, U.
(2006).
"AliBaba: PubMed as agraph."
Bioinformatics 22(19): 2444-5.Rebholz-Schuhmann, D., Arregui, M., Gaudan, M.,Kirsch, H. and Jimeno, A.
(2007).
"Text processingthrough Web services: Calling Whatizit."
Bioin-formatics 23(2): e237-e244.Romano, P., Manniello, A., Aresu, O., Armento, M.,Cesaro, M. and Parodi, B.
(2009).
"Cell Line DataBase: structure and recent improvements towardsmolecular authentication of human cell lines."Nucl.
Acids Res.
37(suppl_1): D925-932.Schwartz, A. S. and Hearst, M. A.
(2003).
"A simplealgorithm for identifying abbreviation definitionsin biomedical text."
Pac Symp Biocomput: 451-62.Smith, B., Ashburner, M., Rosse, C., Bard, J., Bug,W., Ceusters, W., Goldberg, L. J., Eilbeck, K.,Ireland, A., Mungall, C. J., Leontis, N., Rocca-Serra, P., Ruttenberg, A., Sansone, S. A.,Scheuermann, R. H., Shah, N., Whetzel, P. L. andLewis, S. (2007).
"The OBO Foundry: coordinatedevolution of ontologies to support biomedical dataintegration."
Nat Biotechnol 25(11): 1251-5.80
