Proceedings of SSST-4, Fourth Workshop on Syntax and Structure in Statistical Translation, pages 28?33,COLING 2010, Beijing, August 2010.Syntactic Constraints on Phrase Extraction for Phrase-BasedMachine TranslationHailong Cao, Andrew Finch and Eiichiro SumitaLanguage Translation Group, MASTAR ProjectNational Institute of Information and Communications Technology{hlcao,andrew.finch,eiichiro.sumita }@nict.go.jpAbstractA typical phrase-based machine transla-tion (PBMT) system uses phrase pairsextracted from word-aligned parallelcorpora.
All phrase pairs that are consis-tent with word alignments are collected.The resulting phrase table is very largeand includes many non-syntactic phraseswhich may not be necessary.
We proposeto filter the phrase table based on sourcelanguage syntactic constraints.
Ratherthan filter out all non-syntactic phrases,we only apply syntactic constraints whenthere is phrase segmentation ambiguityarising from unaligned words.
Ourmethod is very simple and yields a24.38% phrase pair reduction and a 0.52BLEU point improvement when com-pared to a baseline PBMT system withfull-size tables.1 IntroductionBoth PBMT models (Koehn et al, 2003; Chiang,2005) and syntax-based machine translationmodels (Yamada et al, 2000; Quirk et al, 2005;Galley et al, 2006; Liu et al, 2006; Marcu et al,2006; and numerous others) are the state-of-the-art statistical machine translation (SMT) meth-ods.
Over the last several years, an increasingamount of work has been done to combine theadvantages of the two approaches.
DeNeefe et al(2007) made a quantitative comparison of thephrase pairs that each model has to work withand found it is useful to improve the phrasalcoverage of their string-to-tree model.
Liu et al(2007) proposed forest-to-string rules to capturethe non-syntactic phrases in their tree-to-stringmodel.
Zhang et al (2008) proposed a tree se-quence based tree-to-tree model which can de-scribe non-syntactic phrases with syntactic struc-ture information.The converse of the above methods is to in-corporate syntactic information into the PBMTmodel.
Zollmann and Venugopal (2006) startedwith a complete set of phrases as extracted bytraditional PBMT heuristics, and then annotatedthe target side of each phrasal entry with the la-bel of the constituent node in the target-sideparse tree that subsumes the span.
Marton andResnik (2008) and Cherry (2008) imposed syn-tactic constraints on the PBMT system by mak-ing use of prior linguistic knowledge in the formof syntax analysis.
In their PBMT decoders, acandidate translation gets an extra credit if it re-spects the source side syntactic parse tree butmay incur a cost if it violates a constituentboundary.
Xiong et al (2009) proposed a syn-tax-driven bracketing model to predict whether aphrase (a sequence of contiguous words) isbracketable or not using rich syntactic con-straints.In this paper, we try to utilize syntacticknowledge to constrain the phrase extractionfrom word-based alignments for PBMT system.Rather than filter out all non-syntactic phrases,we only apply syntactic constraints when there isphrase segmentation ambiguity arising from un-aligned words.
Our method is very simple andyields a 24.38% phrase pair reduction and a 0.52BLEU point improvement when compared to thebaseline PBMT system with full-size tables.2 Extracting Phrase Pairs from Word-based AlignmentsIn this section, we briefly review a simple andeffective phrase pair extraction algorithm uponwhich this work builds.28The basic translation unit of a PBMT model isthe phrase pair, which consists of a sequence ofsource words, a sequence of target words and avector of feature values which represents thispair?s contribution to the translation model.
Intypical PBMT systems such as MOSES (Koehn,2007), phrase pairs are extracted from word-aligned parallel corpora.
Figure 1 shows theform of training example.Figure 1: An example parallel sentence pairand word alignmentSince there is no phrase segmentation infor-mation in the word-aligned sentence pair, inpractice all pairs of ?source word sequence |||target word sequence?
that are consistent withword alignments are collected.
The words in alegal phrase pair are only aligned to each other,and not to words outside (Och et al, 1999).
Forexample, given a sentence pair and its wordalignments shown in Figure1, the following ninephrase pairs will be extracted:Source phrase ||| Target phrasef1 ||| e1f2 ||| e2f4 ||| e3f1 f2 ||| e1 e2f2 f3 ||| e2f3 f4 ||| e3f1 f2  f3 ||| e1 e2f2 f3 f4 ||| e2 e3f1 f2 f3 f4 ||| e1 e2 e3Table 1: Phrase pairs extracted from the examplein Figure 1Note that neither the source phrase nor thetarget phrase can be empty.
So ?f3 ||| EMPTY?
isnot a legal phrase pair.Phrase pairs are extracted over the entiretraining corpus.
Given all the collected phrasepairs, we can estimate the phrase translationprobability distribution by relative frequency.The collected phrase pairs will also be used tobuild the lexicalized reordering model.
For moredetails of the lexicalized reordering model,please refer to Tillmann and Zhang (2005) andsection 2.7.2 of the MOSES?s manual1.The main problem of such a phrase pair ex-traction procedure is the resulting phrase transla-tion table is very large, especially when a largequantity of parallel data is available.
This is notdesirable in real application where speed andmemory consumption are often critical concerns.In addition, some phrase translation pairs aregenerated from training data errors and wordalignment noise.
Therefore, we need to filter thephrase table in an appropriate way for both effi-ciency and translation quality (Johnson et al,2007; Yang and Zheng, 2009).f1        f2      f3   f4|           |               |e1        e2            e33 Syntactic Constraints on Phrase PairExtractionWe can divide all the possible phrases into twotypes: syntactic phrases and non-syntacticphrases.
A ?syntactic phrase?
is defined as aword sequence that is covered by a single sub-tree in a syntactic parse tree (Imamura, 2002).Intuitively, we would think syntactic phrases aremuch more reliable while the non-syntacticphrases are useless.
However, (Koehn et al,2003) showed that restricting phrasal translationto only syntactic phrases yields poor translationperformance ?
the ability to translate non-syntactic phrases (such as ?there are?, ?notethat?, and ?according to?)
turns out to be criticaland pervasive.
(Koehn et al, 2003) uses syntactic constraintsfrom both the source and target languages, andover 80% of all phrase pairs are eliminated.
Inthis section, we try to use syntactic knowledge ina less restrictive way.Firstly, instead of using syntactic restrictionon both source phrases and target phrases, weonly apply syntactic restriction to the sourcelanguage side.Secondly, we only apply syntactic restrictionto the source phrase whose first or last word isunaligned.For example, given a parse tree illustrated inFigure 2, we will filter out the phrase pair ?f2 f3||| e2?
since the source phrase ?f2 f3?
is a non-syntactic phrase and its last word ?f3?
is not1 http://www.statmt.org/moses/29aligned to any target word.
The phrase pair ?f1f2  f3 ||| e1 e2?
will  also be eliminated for thesame reason.
But we do keep phrase pairs suchas ?f1 f2 ||| e1 e2?
even if its source phrase ?f1f2?
is a non-syntactic phrase.
Also, we keep ?f3f4 ||| e3?
since ?f3 f4?
is a syntactic phrase.
Ta-ble 2 shows the completed set of phrase pairsthat are extracted with our constraint-basedmethod.Source phrase ||| Target phrasef1 ||| e1f2 ||| e2f4 ||| e3f1 f2 ||| e1 e2f3 f4 ||| e3f2 f3 f4 ||| e2 e3f1 f2 f3 f4 ||| e1 e2 e3Table 2: Phrase pairs extracted from the examplein Figure 2Figure 2: An example parse tree and word-based alignmentsThe state-of-the-art alignment tool such asGIZA++ 2  can not always find alignments forevery word in the sentence pair.
The possiblereasons could be: its frequency is too low, noisydata, auxiliary words or function words whichhave no obvious correspondence in the oppositelanguage.In the automatically aligned parallel corpus,unaligned words are frequent enough to be no-ticeable (see section 4.1 in this paper).
How todecide the translation of unaligned word is left tothe phrase extraction algorithm.
An unaligned2 http://fjoch.com/GIZA++.htmlsource word should be translated together withthe words on the right of it or the words on theleft of it.
The existing algorithm considers bothof the two directions.
So both ?f2 f3 ||| e2?
and?f3 f4 ||| e3?
are extracted.
However, it isunlikely that ?f3?
can be translated into both?e2?
and ?e3?.
So our algorithm uses prior syn-tactic knowledge to keep ?f3 f4 ||| e3?
and ex-clude ?f2 f3 ||| e2?.4 ExperimentsOur SMT system is based on a fairly typicalphrase-based model (Finch and Sumita, 2008).For the training of our SMT model, we use amodified training toolkit adapted from theMOSES decoder.
Our decoder can operate onthe same principles as the MOSES decoder.Minimum error rate training (MERT) with re-spect to BLEU score is used to tune the de-coder?s parameters, and it is performed using thestandard technique of Och (2003).
A lexicalizedreordering model was built by using the ?msd-bidirectional-fe?
configuration in our experi-ments.The translation model was created from theFBIS parallel corpus.
We used a 5-gram lan-guage model trained with modified Kneser-Neysmoothing.
The language model was trained onthe target side of the FBIS corpus and the Xin-hua news in the GIGAWORD corpus.
The de-velopment and test sets are from the NIST MT08evaluation campaign.
Table 3 shows the statis-tics of the corpora used in our experiments.N3N2N1f1        f2      f3   f4e1       e2             e3Data Sentences Chinese wordsEnglishwordsTraining set 221,994 6,251,554 8,065,629Development set 1,664 38,779 46,387Test set 1,357 32,377 42,444GIGAWORD 19,049,757 - 306,221,306Table 3: Corpora statisticsThe Chinese sentences are segmented, POStagged and parsed by the tools described in Kru-engkrai et al (2009) and Cao et al (2007), bothof which are trained on the Penn Chinese Tree-bank 6.0.304.1 Experiments on Word AlignmentsWe use GIZA++ to align the sentences in boththe Chinese-English and English-Chinese direc-tions.
Then we combine the alignments using thestandard ?grow-diag-final-and?
procedure pro-vided with MOSES.In the combined word alignments, 614,369 or9.82% of the Chinese words are unaligned.
Ta-ble 4 shows the top 10 most frequently un-aligned words.
Basically, these words are auxil-iary words or function words whose usage isvery flexible.
So it would be difficult to auto-matically align them to the target words.Unaligned word Frequency?
77776, 29051?
9414?
8768?
8543?
7471?
7365?
6155?
5945?
5450Table 4: Frequently unaligned words from thetraining corpus4.2 Experiments on Chinese-English SMTIn order to confirm that it is advantageous toapply appropriate syntactic constraints on phraseextraction, we performed three translation ex-periments by using different ways of phrase ex-traction.In the first experiment, we used the methodintroduced in Section 2 to extract all possiblephrase translation pairs without using any con-straints arising from knowledge of syntax.The second experiment used source languagesyntactic constraints to filter out all non-syntactic phrases during phrase pair extraction.The third experiment used source languagesyntactic constraints to filter out only non-syntactic phrases whose first or last source wordwas unaligned.With the exception of the above differences inphrase translation pair extraction, all the othersettings were the identical in the threeexperiments.
Table 5 summarizes the SMT per-formance.
The evaluation metric is case-sensitive BLEU-4 (Papineni et al, 2002) whichestimates the accuracy of translation output withrespect to a set of reference translations.Syntactic Con-straintsNumber ofdistinct phrase pairs BLEUNone 14,195,686 17.26Full constraint 4,855,108 16.51Selectivelyconstraint 10,733,731 17.78Table 5: Comparison of different constraints onphrase pair extraction by translation qualityAs shown in the table, it is harmful to fullyapply syntactic constraints on phrase extraction,even just on the source language side.
This isconsistent with the observation of (Koehn et al,2003) who applied both source and target con-straints in German to English translation ex-periments.Clearly, we obtained the best performance ifwe use source language syntactic constraintsonly on phrases whose first or last source wordis unaligned.
In addition, we reduced the numberof distinct phrase pairs by 24.38% over the base-line full-size phrase table.The results in table 5 show that while somenon-syntactic phrases are very important tomaintain the performance of a PBMT system,not all of them are necessary.
We can achievebetter performance and a smaller phrase table byapplying syntactic constraints when there isphrase segmentation ambiguity arising from un-aligned words.5 Related WorkTo some extent, our idea is similar to Ma et al(2008), who used an anchor word alignmentmodel to find a set of high-precision anchorlinks and then aligned the remaining words rely-ing on dependency information invoked by theacquired anchor links.
The similarity is that bothMa et al (2008) and this work utilize structureinformation to find appropriate translations forwords which are difficult to align.
The differ-31ence is that they used dependency information inthe word alignment stage while our method usessyntactic information during the phrase pair ex-traction stage.
There are also many works whichleverage syntax information to improve wordalignments (e.g., Cherry and Lin, 2006; DeNeroand Klein, 2007; Fossum et al, 2008; Hermja-kob, 2009).Johnson et al, (2007) presented a techniquefor pruning the phrase table in a PBMT systemusing Fisher?s exact test.
They compute the sig-nificance value of each phrase pair and prune thetable by deleting phrase pairs with significancevalues smaller than a certain threshold.
Yangand Zheng (2008) extended the work in Johnsonet al, (2007) to a hierarchical PBMT model,which is built on synchronous context freegrammars (SCFG).
Tomeh et al, (2009) de-scribed an approach for filtering phrase tables ina statistical machine translation system, whichrelies on a statistical independence measurecalled Noise, first introduced in (Moore, 2004).The difference between the above research andthis work is they took advantage of some statis-tical measures while we use syntactic knowledgeto filter phrase tables.6 Conclusion and Future WorkPhrase pair extraction plays a very importantrole on the performance of PBMT systems.
Weutilize syntactic knowledge to constrain thephrase extraction from word-based alignmentsfor a PBMT system.
Rather than filter out allnon-syntactic phrases, we only filter out non-syntactic phrases whose first or last source wordis unaligned.
Our method is very simple andyields a 24.38% phrase pair reduction and a 0.52BLEU point improvement when compared to thebaseline PBMT system with full-size tables.In the future work, we will use other languagepairs to test our phrase extraction method so thatwe can discover whether or not it is languageindependent.ReferencesRobert C. Moore.
2004.
On log-likelihood-ratios andthe significance of rare events.
In EMNLP.Hailong Cao, Yujie Zhang and Hitoshi Isahara.
Em-pirical study on parsing Chinese based on Collins'model.
2007.
In PACLING.Colin Cherry and Dekang Lin.
2006.
Soft syntacticconstraints for word alignment through discrimina-tive training.
In ACL.Colin Cherry.
2008.
Cohesive phrase-Based decodingfor statistical machine translation.
In ACL-HLT.David Chiang.
2005.
A hierarchical phrase-basedmodel for statistical machine translation.
In ACL.Steve DeNeefe, Kevin Knight, Wei Wang, andDaniel Marcu.
2007.
What can syntax-based MTlearn from phrase-based MT?
In EMNLP-CoNLL.John DeNero and Dan Klein.
2007.
Tailoring wordalignments to syntactic machine translation.
InACL.Andrew Finch and Eiichiro Sumita.
2008.
Dynamicmodel interpolation for statistical machine transla-tion.
In SMT Workshop.Victoria Fossum, Kevin Knight and Steven Abney.2008.
Using syntax to improve word alignmentprecision for syntax-based machine translation.
InSMT Workshop, ACL.Michel Galley, Jonathan Graehl, Kevin Knight,Daniel Marcu, Steve Deneefe, Wei Wang andIgnacio Thayer.
2006.
Scalable inference andtraining of context-rich syntactic translation mod-els.
In ACL.Ulf Hermjakob.
2009.
Improved word alignment withstatistics and linguistic heuristics.
In EMNLP.Kenji Imamura.
2002.
Application of translationknowledge acquired by hierarchical phrase align-ment for pattern-based MT.
In TMI.Howard Johnson, Joel Martin, George Foster andRoland Kuhn.
2007.
Improving translation qualityby discarding most of the phrase table.
In EMNLP-CoNLL.Franz Josef Och, Christoph Tillmann and HermannNey.
1999.
Improved alignment models for statis-tical machine translation.
In EMNLP-VLC.Franz Josef Och.
2003.
Minimum error rate trainingin statistical machine translation.
In ACL.Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu.2003.
Statistical phrase-based translation.
In HLT-NAACL.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Ber-toldi, Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, ChristineMoran, Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar,Alexandra Constantin, Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses:Open Source Toolkit for Statistical MachineTranslation.
In ACL demo and poster sessions.32Canasai Kruengkrai, Kiyotaka Uchimoto, Jun'ichiKazama, Yiou Wang, Kentaro Torisawa and Hito-shi Isahara.
2009.
An error-driven word-characterhybrid model for joint Chinese word segmentationand POS tagging.
In ACL-IJCNLP.Yang Liu, Qun Liu, Shouxun Lin.
2006.
Tree-to-string alignment template for statistical machinetranslation.
In ACL-COLING.Yang Liu, Yun Huang, Qun Liu and Shouxun Lin.2007.
Forest-to-string statistical translation rules.In ACL.Yanjun Ma, Sylwia Ozdowska, Yanli Sun and AndyWay.
2008.
Improving word alignment using syn-tactic dependencies.
In SSST.Daniel Marcu, Wei Wang, Abdessamad Echihabi,and Kevin Knight.
2006.
SPMT: Statistical ma-chine translation with syntactified target languagephrases.
In EMNLP.Yuval Marton and Philip Resnik.
2008.
Soft syntacticconstraints for hierarchical phrased-based transla-tion.
In ACL-HLT.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward andWeiJing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a method for auto-matic evaluation of machine translation.
In ACL.Chris Quirk and Arul Menezes and Colin Cherry.2005.
Dependency treelet translation: Syntacticallyinformed phrasal SMT.
In ACL.Christoph Tillmann and Tong Zhang.
2005.
A local-ized prediction model for statistical machine trans-lation.
In ACL.Nadi Tomeh, Nicola Cancedda and Marc Dymetman.2009.
Complexity-based phrase-table filtering forstatistical machine translation.
In MT Summit.Deyi Xiong, Min Zhang, Aiti Aw and Haizhou Li.2009.
A syntax-driven bracketing model forphrase-based translation.
In ACL-IJCNLP.Kenji Yamada and Kevin Knight.
2000.
A syntax-based statistical translation model.
In ACL.Mei Yang and Jing Zheng.
2009.
Toward smaller,faster, and better hierarchical phrase-based SMT.In ACL.Min Zhang, Hongfei Jiang, Aiti Aw, Chew Lim Tanand Sheng Li.
2008.
A tree sequence alignment-based tree-to-tree translation model.
In ACL- HLT.Andreas Zollmann and Ashish Venugopal.
2006.Syntax augmented machine translation via chartparsing.
In SMT Workshop, HLT-NAACL.33
