Proceedings of the 2010 Named Entities Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 66?70,Uppsala, Sweden, 16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSyllable-based Thai-English Machine TransliterationChai Wutiwiwatchai  and  Ausdang ThangthaiNational Electronics and Computer Technology CenterPathumthani, Thailand{chai.wutiwiwatchai,ausdang.thangthai}@nectec.or.thAbstractThis article describes the first trial on bidirec-tional Thai-English machine transliteration ap-plied on the NEWS 2010 transliteration cor-pus.
The system relies on segmenting source-language  words into syllable-like units,  find-ing unit's pronunciations, consulting a syllabletransliteration  table  to  form  target-languageword hypotheses, and ranking the hypothesesby using syllable n-gram.
The approach yields84.2% and 70.4% mean F-scores on English-to-Thai  and  Thai-to-English  transliteration.Discussion  on  existing  problems  and  futuresolutions are addressed.1 IntroductionTransliteration  aims  to  phonetically  transcribetext in source languages with text in target lan-guages.
The  task  is  crucial  for  various  naturallanguage  processing  research  and  applicationssuch as machine translation, multilingual text-to-speech synthesis and information retrieval.
Mostof  current  Thai  writings contain both Thai  andEnglish scripts.
Such English words when writ-ten in Thai are mainly their translations.
Withoutofficial  translation  forms,  transliterations  oftentake place.Thai-English  machine  transliteration  and  re-lated research have been investigated for manyyears.
Works  for  Thai  word  romanization  orThai-to-English transliteration are such as Char-oenporn  et  al.
(1999),  Aroonmanakun  andRivepiboon (2004).
Both works proposed statist-ical  romanization models  based on the syllableunit.
Generating  Thai  scripts  of  English  wordsare mainly via automatic transcription of Englishwords.
Aroonmanakun  (2005)  described  achunk-based n-gram model where the chunk is agroup of characters useful for mapping to Thaitranscriptions.
Thangthai et al (2007) proposed amethod  for  generating  Thai  phonetic  transcrip-tions of  English words for  use in  Thai/Englishtext-to-speech  synthesis.
The  CART  learningmachine was adopted to map English charactersto  Thai  phonetics.
As  our  literature  review,  ageneral algorithm for bi-directional Thai-to-Eng-lish  and  English-to-Thai  transliteration  has  notbeen investigated.The NEWS machine transliteration shared taskhas just included Thai-English words as a part ofits corpus in 2010, serving as a good source foralgorithm benchmarking.
In this article, a Thai-English machine transliteration system is evalu-ated on the NEWS 2010 corpus.
The system wasdeveloped under intuitive concepts that translit-eration  among  Thai-English  is  mostly  done onthe basis of sound mimicking of syllable units.Therefore, the algorithm firstly segments the in-put word in a source language into syllable-likeunits  and  finding  pronunciations  of  each  unit.The pronunciation in the form of phonetic scriptsis used to find possible transliteration forms giv-en a syllable translation table.
The best result isdetermined by using syllable n-gram.The  next  section  describes  more  details  ofThai-English  transliteration  problems  and  theThai-English NEWS 2010 corpus.
The detail ofproposed  system is  given  in  Section  3  and  itsevaluation is reported in Section 4.
Section 5 dis-cusses on existing problems and possible  solu-tions.2 Thai-English TransliterationAs  mentioned  in  the  Introduction,  the  currentThai writing often contains both Thai and Eng-lish scripts especially for English words withoutcompact  translations.
Many  times,  translitera-tions  take  place  when  only  Thai  scripts  areneeded.
This is not only restricted to names butalso  some  common  words  like  ?computer?,?physics?, etc.The  Thai  Royal  Institute  (http://www.roy-in.go.th) is authorized to issue official guidelinesfor Thai transcriptions of foreign words and alsoromanization of Thai words, which are respect-ively equivalent to English-to-Thai and Thai-to-English  transliteration.
Romanization  of  Thaiwords is based on sound transcription.
Thai con-66sonant and vowel alphabets are defined to map toroman  alphabets.
Similarly,  English-to-Thaitransliteration is  defined based on the  phonetictranscription of English words.
However, in thelatter case, an English phoneme could be mappedto  multiple  Thai  alphabets.
For  example,  thesound /k/ could be mapped to either ??
?,  ??
?
,??
?, or ???.
Moreover, the guideline reserves fortransliterations generally used in the current writ-ing and also transliterations appeared in the offi-cial Royal Institute dictionaries, even such trans-literations do not comply with the guideline.Since the guidelines are quite flexible and it isalso common that  lots  of Thai  people may notstrictly follow the guidelines, ones can see manyways  of  transliteration  in  daily  used  text.
Tosolve this ambiguity, both the official guidelinesand statistics of  usage must  be incorporated inthe machine transliteration system.The Thai-English part of NEWS 2010 corpusdeveloped by the National Electronics and Com-puter  Technology Center  (NECTEC)  composesof word pairs collected mainly from 3 sources;press from the Thai Royal  Institute, press fromother sources, and the NEWS 2009 corpus.
Thefirst two sources, sharing about 40%  of the cor-pus, mostly contain common English words of-ten transliterated into Thai and the transliterationis  almost  restricted  to  the  Royal  Instituteguidelines.
The rest are English names selectedfrom the NEWS 2009 corpus based on their fre-quencies found by the Google search.
Such Eng-lish names were transliterated into Thai and re-checked  by  linguists  using  the  Royal  Institutetransliteration guideline.3 Proposed Transliteration SystemOur proposed model is similar to what proposedby Jiang et al (2009), which introduced transla-tion among Chinese and English names based onsyllable units and determined the best candidateusing the  statistical  n-gram model.
The overallstructure of our model is shown in Figure 1.3.1 Syllabification and letter-to-soundAn input word in the source language is first seg-mented  into syllable-like  units.
It  is  noted thatthere are some cases where segmented units arenot  really a  syllable.
For  examples,  ?S?
in  theword ?SPECTOR?
might actually be pronouncedas a single consonant without  vowel.
The Thaiword ?????
?/s-a n-?
:/ is unbreakable as the letterexpressed for the first syllable /s-a/ is enclosed inthe  letters  of  the  second  syllable  /n-?:/.
Thesecases are considered exceptional syllables.Figure 1.
The overall system architecture.In the Thai-to-English system,  syllabificationof Thai words is a part of a Thai letter-to-soundconversion  tool  provided  by  Thangthai  et  al.(2006).
It is performed using context-free gram-mar (CFG) rules created by Tarsaku et al (2001).The CFG rules produce syllable-sequence hypo-theses,  which are  then  disambiguated  by usingsyllable  n-gram.
Simultaneously,  the  toolprovides  the  phonetic  transcription  of  the  bestsyllable sequence by using a simple syllable-to-phone mapping.
Figure 1 shows an example ofan input Thai word ??????????
?
which is segmen-ted into 3 syllables ??|????|??????
and convertedto the phonetic transcription defined for Thai ?s-a|p-e-k|t-?
:?.In the English-to-Thai system, a simple syllab-ification module of English words is created us-ing the following rules.1) Marking all vowel letters ?a, e, i, o, u?,e.g.
L[o]m[o]c[a]t[i]v[e], J[a]nsp[o]rt2) Using some rules, merging consonantalletters surrounding each vowel to formbasic syllables,e.g.
Lo|mo|ca|ti|ve, Jan|sport3) Post-processing by merging the syllablewith ?e?
vowel into its preceding syllablee.g.
Lo|mo|ca|tive,  and re-segmenting forsyllables without vowel letters, e.g.mcdo|nald to mc|do|nald, sport to s|portLetter-to-sound conversion of English words canactually be conducted by several public tools likeFestival  (http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/  fest-ival/).
However, the tool does not meet our re-67quirement as it could not output syllable bound-aries of the phonetic sequence and finding suchboundaries is not trivial.
Instead, a tool for con-verting English words to Thai phonetic transcrip-tions developed by Thangthai et al (2007) is ad-opted.
In this tool, the CART learning machine isused to capture the relationship among alphabetsand  English  phone  transcriptions  of  Englishwords  and Thai phone transcriptions.
Since theThai  phonetic transcription is defined based onthe syllable structure, the syllable boundaries ofphonetic transcriptions given by this tool can beobtained.3.2 Syllable transliteration and disambigu-ationIn  the  training  phase,  both  Thai  and  Englishwords in pairs  are syllabified and converted tophonetic  transcriptions  using  the  methods  de-scribed in the previous subsection.
To reduce theeffect of errors caused by automatic syllabifica-tion,  only  word  pairs  having  equal  number  ofsyllables are kept for building a syllable translit-eration table.
The table consists of a list of syl-lable phonetic transcriptions and its possible tex-tual syllables in both languages.
An n-gram mod-el  of  textual  syllables  in each language is  alsoprepared from the training set.In  the  testing  phase,  each  syllable  in  thesource-language word is mapped to possible syl-lables in the target language via its phonetic tran-scription  using  the  syllable  transliteration  tabledescribed  above.
Since  each  syllable  could  betransliterated to multiple hypotheses, the best hy-pothesis  can be determined by considering syl-lable n-gram probabilities.4 ExperimentsThe Thai-English part of NEWS 2010 were de-ployed in our experiment.
The training set com-poses  of  24,501  word  pairs  and  two  test  sets,2,000 words for English-to-Thai and 1,994 wordsfor Thai-to-English  are used for evaluation.
Alltraining words were syllable segmented and con-verted to phonetic transcriptions using the toolsdescribed in the Section 3.1.
Since the CFG rulescould not completely cover all possible syllablesin  Thai,  some  words  failed  from automaticallygenerating  phonetic  transcriptions  were  filteredout.
As mentioned also in the Section 3.1, onlyword pairs with equal number of segmented syl-lables were kept for training.
Finally, 16,705 outof 24,501 word pairs were reserved for buildingthe syllable transliteration table and for trainingsyllable 2-gram models.Table 1 shows some statistics of syllables col-lected  from the  training  word  pairs.
Since  theThai-English  word  pairs  provided  in  NEWS2010  were  prepared  mainly  by  transliteratingEnglish words and names into Thai, it is hencereasonable that the number of distinct syllablesin  Thai  is  considerably lower  than  in  English.Similarly, the other statistics like the numbers ofhomophones  per  syllable  phonetic-transcriptionare in the same manner.Total no.
of syllables 39,537Avg.
no.
of syllables per word 2.4No.
of distinct syllables 4,367 (Thai)6,307 (English)No.
of distinct syllablephonetic-transcriptions1,869Avg.
no.
of homophones persyllable phonetic-transcription2.3 (Thai)3.4 (English)Max.
no.
of homophones persyllable phonetic-transcription16 (Thai)38 (English)Table 2.
Some statistics of syllables extractedfrom the training set.As seen from the Table 1 that there could beup to 38 candidates of textual syllables given asyllable  phonetic  transcription.
To  avoid  thelarge search space of syllable combinations, onlytop-frequency  syllables  were  included  in  thesearch space.
Table 2 shows transliteration res-ults regarding 4 measures defined in the NEWS2010 shared task.
Both experiments on English-to-Thai  and  Thai-to-English  transliteration  arenon-standard  tests  as  external  letter-to-soundconversion tools are incorporated.Measure Eng-to-Thai Thai-to-EngACC in Top-1 0.247 0.093Mean F-score 0.842 0.707MRR 0.367 0.132MAPref 0.247 0.093Table 2.
Transliteration results based on theNEWS 2010 measurement.685 Analysis and DiscussionThere are still some problematic issues regardingthe transliteration format including hyphenationand case sensitivity in the test data.
Ignoring bothproblems leads to 0.5% and 8.3% improvementon the English-to-Thai and Thai-to-English testsrespectively.
Figure 2 illustrates the distributionof test words and error words with respect to theword length in the unit  of syllables.
More than80% of test words are either 2 or 3 syllables.
Itcan be roughly seen that the ratio of error wordsover  test  words  increases  with  respect  to  thelength  of  words.
This  is  by  the  fact  that  thewhole word will be considered incorrect even ifonly a syllable in the word is wrongly transliter-ated.
Out of 3,860 syllable units extracted fromall error words, over 57% are correctly transliter-ated.Figure 2.
The distribution of test words and errorwords with respect to the word length.Another issue largely affecting the system per-formance is as mentioned in the Section 2 thatthe Thai Royal Institute's guideline is somewhatflexible  for  multiple  ways  of  transliteration.However, the corpus used to train and test cur-rently provides only one way of transliteration.Improving the corpus to cope with such translit-eration  flexibility  is  needed.
In  developing  theThai-English NEWS 2010 transliteration corpus,some  foreign  names  are  difficult  to  pronounceeven by linguists.
Errors in the corpus are thenunavoidable and required further improvement.Many algorithms could be conducted to helpimprove the system accuracy.
First,  the currentsystem uses only syllable n-gram probabilities todetermine  the  best  result  without  consideringhow  likely  the  target  syllable  is  close  to  thesource syllable.
For example, the source syllables?BIKE?
and ?BYTE?
are transliterated to Thai as?????
?and ??????
respectively.
Both Thai translit-erated syllables are pronounced in the same wayas  /b-ai/.
It  can  be  seen  that  both  syllables?BIKE?
and  ?BYTE?
can  be  linked  to  both??
?
??
?
and ??
???
?
.
Selecting the best syllabletakes  only  the  syllable  n-gram  into  accountwithout considering its right transliteration.
Dir-ect mapping between source and target syllablescould  solve  this  problem but  leads  to  anotherproblem of unseen syllables.
A better way is toincorporate in the search space another score rep-resenting the closeness of source and target syl-lables.
As the example,  the syllable ?BIKE?
iscloser to ??????
than to ??????
as the letter ?K?
isnormally pronounced like ???
/k/, not ???
/th/.We have tried incorporating such knowledge byintroducing  a  syllable  similarity  score  in  thesearch space.
Given a pair of source and targetsyllables, the syllable similarity score is the num-ber  of  consonants  having  the  same  sound like?K?
and ???
divided by the total number of con-sonants  in  the  syllable.
Unfortunately,  this  ap-proach  could  not  yield  any  improvement  cur-rently as many syllable pairs happened to havethe same similarity score.
A better definition ofthe score will be conducted in the future work.6 ConclusionThe Thai-English part of NEWS 2010 translitera-tion corpus was briefly described and its use inbuilding  a  Thai-English  machine  transliterationsystem  was  reported.
The  system  is  based  ontransliteration of syllable units extracted from thewhole input word.
Within the space of candidatetransliterated syllables,  the  best  output  was de-termined by using the statistical syllable n-grammodel.
There are many issues left for further im-provement.
First, possible transliterations of eachword should be added to the corpus.
Second, thesystem itself could be improved by e.g.
incorpor-ating better syllabification approaches, defining abetter  syllable  similarity  score,  and  comparingwith  other  potential  algorithms.
Finally,  as  theThai-to-English part of the transliteration corpusis  actually  back-transliteration  of  English-to-Thai, it is interesting to extend the corpus to copewith real-use Thai-to-English word pairs.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the Thai RoyalInstitute and Assoc.
Prof. Dr. Wirote Aroonman-akun  from the  Faculty  of  Arts,  ChulalongkornUniversity,  who help supply parts  of  the  Thai-English NEWS 2010 transliteration corpus.69ReferencesAusdang  Thangthai,  Chatchawarn  Hansakun-buntheung,  Rungkarn  Siricharoenchai,  and  ChaiWutiwiwatchai.
2006.
Automatic  syllable-patterninduction  in  statistical  Thai  text-to-phone  tran-scription,  In  Proc.
of  INTERSPEECH 2006,  pp.1344-1347.Ausdang  Thangthai,  Chai  Wutiwiwatchai,  AnochaRagchatjaroen, Sittipong Saychum.
2007.
A learn-ing  method  for  Thai  phonetization  of  Englishwords,  In  Proc.
of  INTERSPEECH  2007,  pp.1777-1780.Thatsanee  Charoenporn,  Ananlada  Chotimongkol,and  Virach  Sornlertlamvanich.
1999.
Automaticromanization  for  Thai,  In  Proc.
of  the  OrientalCOCOSDA 1999, Taipei, Taiwan.Wirote  Aroonmanakun  and  Wanchai  Rivepiboon.2004.
A unified model of Thai word segmentationand romanization, In Proc.
of the 18th Pacific AsiaConference on Language, Information and Compu-tation, Tokyo, Japan, pp.
205-214.Wirote Aroonmanakun.
2005.
A chunk-based n-gramEnglish to Thai transliteration, In Proc.
of the 6thSymposium on Natural Language Processing, Chi-ang Rai, Thailand, pp.
37-42.Xue Jiang,  Le Sun, Dakun Zhang.
2009.
A syllable-based name transliteration system, In Proc.
of  the2009  Named  Entities  Workshop,  ACL-IJCNLP2009, pp.
96?99.70
