Using Topic Sentiment Sentences to Recognize SentimentPolarity in Chinese ReviewsJiang YangSchool of LiteratureCommunication University of Chinayangjiang@cuc.edu.cnMin HouBroadcast Media Language BranchCommunication University of Chinahouminxx@263.netAbstractAn approach to recognizing sentimentpolarity in Chinese reviews based ontopic sentiment sentences is presented.Considering the features of Chinese re-views, we firstly identify the topic of areview using an n-gram matching ap-proach.
To extract candidate topic senti-ment sentences, we compute the seman-tic similarity between a given sentenceand the ascertained topic and meanwhiledetermine whether the sentence is sub-jective.
A certain number of these sen-tences are then selected as representa-tives according to their semantic simi-larity value with relation to the topic.The average value of the representativetopic sentiment sentences is calculatedand taken as the sentiment polarity of areview.
Experiment results show that theproposed method is feasible and canachieve relatively high precision.1 IntroductionSentiment analysis, also known as ?opinion min-ing?, is the problem of analyzing the sentiment,opinion or any other subjectivity of written texts.With its potential applications to opinion searchengine, public opinion analysis, product promo-tion, etc., sentiment analysis has been receivingincreasing interest in recent years.What sentiment analysis processes are textswith subjectivity which mainly describe thewriters?
(or on behalf of a group or an organiza-tion) private thoughts, attitudes or opinions onphenomena, persons, affairs and so on.
Althoughvarious kinds of writings such as narration andexposition are possible to contain subjectivity,argumentation is the focus of sentiment analysison which researchers put much strength atpresent.
As a kind of argumentation and a typi-cal and common subjective text, a review com-ments on some specific phenomenon, person oraffair.
Reviews, especially news reviews, have acertain degree of influence on public opinion invirtue of mass media.
Domain-specific reviewslike automobile, hotel, movie reviews have po-tential commercial value respectively.
Therefore,recognizing sentiment polarity (SP thereafter) inreviews becomes necessary and practical.Language is a hierarchical symbol system,which allows sentiment analysis to be conductedon different language levels.
In general, mostcurrent studies concerning sentiment analysis areabout determining the SP of words, phrases orsentences.
Only a fraction of them addresseddiscourse level sentiment analysis.
This paper,aiming at recognizing the overall SP of Chinesereviews, proposes a topic-sentiment-sentencebased approach to carry out a discourse levelsentiment analysis.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
Related works are presented in section 2.Section 3 is problem analysis and method de-scription.
Section 4 describes topic identificationand topic sentiment sentence extraction.
Section5 is about recognizing SP in Chinese reviewsusing the extracted topic sentiment sentences.Section 6 is the experiment results and section 7is the conclusion.2 Related WorksThe SP determination can be generallyconducted on three language levels: the wordlevel, the sentence level and the discourse level.The two main popular approaches, especially inreal-world applications, have been based onmachine learning techniques and based onsemantic analysis techniques.
Research aimingat recognizing the overall SP of discourse isrepresented by Turney (2002), Pang et al (2002)and Yi et al (2003).
Turney proposed anunsupervised learning algorithm to classify thesentiment orientation of reviews.
The mutualinformation difference between the given wordor phrase and the words ?poor?
and ?excellent?was calculated respectively to measure itssemantic orientation; then the average semanticorientation of all the words in a given text wasregarded as the overall semantic orientation.Pang et al employed such classification modelsas Na?ve Bayesian model, Maximum Entropymodel and Support Vector Machine model toclassify the semantic orientation of moviereviews, in which the features of models selectedincluded unigrams, bigrams, parts of speech,word position, feature frequency and featurepresence.
Yi et al firstly analyzed thegrammatical structure of sentences using NLPtechniques.
The semantic orientation of asentence then is determined by referring to asentiment lexicon and a sentiment patterndatabase.
They applied the approach toclassifying the overall SP of document.Other related works are concerning the senti-ment analysis of sentences and words which un-derlie recognizing the overall SP of a whole text.Wiebe et al (2000, 2004) proved that the subjec-tivity of a sentence could be judged according tothe adjectives in it.
Kim & Hovy (2004) andWeibe & Riloff (2005) explored the classifica-tion of subjective and objective sentences.
Yu etal.
(2003) put forward an approach to extractopinionated sentences in order to serve an auto-matic question answering system.
The extractedsentences were classified and the SP of each wasdetermined.
Hu & Liu (2004) took advantage ofWordNet to obtain sentiment words and theirorientations.
The polarity of a sentence thus isjudged according to the dominant semanticorientation of sentiment words.For Chinese, Wang et al (2005) proposed ahybrid approach to recognize the semantic orien-tations of sentences in reviews based on heuris-tic rules and Bayesian classification technique.Wang et al (2007) applied a Multi-redundant-labeled CRFs method on sentence sentimentanalysis.
Experiments showed it solved ordinalregression problems effectively and obtainedglobal optimal result over multiple cascadedsubtasks.
Meng et al (2008) designed a recogni-tion system of text valence based on key wordtemplate in which they proposed templatematching arithmetic and text valence valuearithmetic for the calculation of the valence ofChinese texts.
Zheng et al (2009) conducted aresearch on sentiment analysis to Chinese travel-er reviews by SVM algorithm.3 Problem Analysis and Method De-scription3.1 Discourse Structure of Chinese TextsThe overall SP of a Chinese text is the sum ofthe SP of all its component parts.
However, theimportance of each component part in a giventext varies.
This is because no matter whichwriting style a text belongs to, it has a particulardiscourse structure which determines the impor-tance of the component parts.Discourse structure is the organization andconstitution law of language units (greater thansentence) within a discourse.
It formally indi-cates the hierarchy of discourse contents, seman-tically guarantees the integrity of discourse con-tents and logically reflects the coherence of dis-course contents.
In a word, discourse structure isthe unity of discourse form, discourse meaningand discourse logic.
A discourse consists of sev-eral semantic parts.
The central meaning of adiscourse is the aggregation of the central mean-ing of its semantic parts in a certain logic way.
Asemantic part is the set of paragraphs.
It may becomposed of as small as only a paragraph or aslarge as even a whole chapter.
The basis for par-titioning semantic parts depends on the writingstyles, i.e., narration, description, argumentationand exposition.
For argumentation, a typical ar-gumentation may be divided into 4 parts as in-troduction, viewpoint presentation, demonstra-tion and conclusion.
Recognizing semantic partshas great significance in understanding the cen-tral idea of a text.3.2 Features of Chinese ReviewsChinese reviews are a kind of argumentation.According to what is reviewed, they can be ca-tegorized into finance reviews (e.g., stock re-view), literature reviews (e.g., book review),product reviews (e.g., automobile review), cur-rent affairs reviews (e.g., news review), etc.Generally speaking, Chinese reviews bear thefollowing features.Firstly, the topic of a Chinese review is expli-cit.
A Chinese review always comments on somespecific phenomenon, person or affair.
The ob-ject it deals with is very explicit.Secondly, a Chinese review has generally on-ly one topic.
Thus, in a Chinese review, the re-viewer always explicitly expresses his/her opi-nion towards the topic.
The sentiment of the dis-cussed topic is rather explicit.
Some Chinesereviews may discuss subtopics and correspond-ing opinions on each subtopic may be shown.But it will not change or influence the reviewer?sbasic sentiment on the topic.Thirdly, the topic of a Chinese review isclosely related to its title.
Chinese Reviews oftenuse concise expressions in titles to show clearlythe topics or the themes.
Therefore, the topic ofa review can generally be found in its title.Fourthly, Chinese reviews have fixed expres-sion patterns.
A typical Chinese review consistsof 4 semantic parts as is mentioned above.
Thereviewer?s sentiment expressions towards thetopic generally appears in the ?viewpoint presen-tation?
and ?conclusion?
part.To prove the correctness of our knowledge ofChinese reviews, we conducted a survey on 560Chinese reviews which were collected fromnewspapers and the Internet.
The manually ex-amined results, which are showed as follows,verify the above mentioned 4 features of Chi-nese reviews.Table 1 A Survey on Features of Chinese ReviewsFeatures PercentExplicit Topic 100One Topic 100Title Reflects Topic 99.64DiscourseStructureI-D-C1 40.17I-V-D-C 33.9I-V-D 18.75others 7.181?I?
stands for introduction, ?D?
for demonstration, ?C?
forconclusion and ?V?
for viewpoint presentation.3.3 Topic Sentiment SentenceAccording to the above analysis, the SP of aChinese review is manifested by a certain ex-pression pattern through several semantic parts,and its overall SP is generally expressed in the?viewpoint presentation?
and ?conclusion?
part.Thus a straightforward idea to obtain the SP of aChinese review is to: (1) partition the reviewinto several semantic parts; (2) distinguish theviewpoint presentation part and the conclusionpart; (3) analyze only the sentiment of the view-point presentation part and the conclusion partand take the result as the overall SP of the re-view.
Intuitively, this seemingly simple methodcan achieve very good result.However, to perform an automatic discoursestructure analysis itself is actually a hard taskand will lose precision during the processing; todistinguish different semantic parts by means oflanguage cues without a discourse structureanalysis can only solve some instead of all prob-lems.
Therefore, we introduce the concept oftopic sentiment sentence.A topic sentiment sentence is defined as a sen-tence bearing both the topic concept and senti-ment towards that topic.
The topic sentimentsentences in a Chinese review are the intersec-tion of the topic sentences and sentiment sen-tences in it.
Topic sentiment sentences are repre-sentative for sentiment analysis because, firstly,they are homogeneous in topic.
And more im-portantly, the sentiment bearing in these sen-tences refer to the same topic.
This makes sen-timent in each sentence computable.
Earlierworks like Turney (2002) or Pang et al(2002)don?t take into account the topic and the senti-ment relating to that topic together as a whole,thus makes the result less reliable in that the sen-timent words and phrases processed are not ho-mogeneous in topic.
Secondly, the degree of se-mantic similarity between topic sentiment sen-tences and the topic of the review reflects a po-tential relatedness between the topic sentimentsentences and their corresponding semantic parts.The more a topic sentiment sentence is similar inmeaning to the topic, the more likely it appearsin the viewpoint presentation part or conclusionpart.
This is just the reason we avoid an analysisof discourse structure of a review.
We also try toavoid an automatic partition of semantic parts ofa review since the topic sentiment sentencesthemselves potentially point out the correspond-ing semantic parts they belong to.
Thirdly, thedistribution of the topic sentiment sentences,including density and extensity, reflects more orless the writer?s intensity of attitude toward whatis being discussed and can help with detailedsentiment analysis.To summarize, with topic sentiment sentences,we can compute the SP of a Chinese review in amore simple and effective way without an auto-matic discourse structure analysis.
Moreover, wecan obtain a ?shallow?
structure since topic sen-timent sentences potentially reflect the discoursestructure of Chinese reviews.3.4 MethodWe thus propose a new method to recognize thesentiment polarity of Chinese reviews using top-ic sentiment sentences.
It is described as follows.
(1) Identify the topic of a review using an n-gram matching approach.
(2) Extract candidatetopic sentiment sentences, compute the semanticsimilarity between a given sentence and the as-certained topic and meanwhile determine wheth-er the sentence is subjective.
(3) A certain num-ber of these sentences are selected as representa-tives according to their semantic similarity valuewith relation to the topic.
The average value ofthe representative topic sentiment sentences iscalculated and taken as the sentiment polarity ofa review.Experiment results show that the proposedmethod is feasible and can achieve relativelyhigh precision.4 Topic Identification and Topic Sen-timent Sentence Extraction4.1 Topic Identification of Chinese ReviewsThe topic of a Chinese review is presented as aset of strings T={Wn1, Wn2, ?, Wni}, in whichWni refers to a word or several continuous wordsand n indicates the number of words in a Wni.The evaluation of whether any candidate Wnibelongs to T depends on its position and fre-quency.
Wni?s position reflects its distributiondegree D(Wni): the more extensive Wni distri-butes in a review, the more likely it relates to thetopic.
Wni?s frequency reflects its importancedegree I(Wni): the more times Wni appears in areview, the more likely it relates to the topic.Thus the degree of Wni belongs to T is definedas membership degree C(Wni) and is measuredby the formula:C(Wni)= ??
D(Wni) +??
I(Wni)    (1)In (1), D(Wni) is determined by the number ofparagraphs in which D(Wni) appears and thetotal number of paragraphs of a text,  I(Wni) isthe binary logarithm of the frequency of Wni in atext, ?
and ?
are the weighted coefficients to ad-just the weights of D(Wni) and I(Wni).In order to quickly obtain T, an n-grammatching based approach is applied according tothe following algorithm.
(1) Strings separated by punctuations in thetitle and the main text are segmented and thenstored respectively in queue Tq and Bq.
(2) For n=1 to m (1?m?
the maximumlength of Tq), take out a Wni from Tq successive-ly and search it in Bq.
If there is a Wni in Bq,then insert it into the index table G={Wni, posi-tion, frequency}.
When n=1, which means thereis only one word in Wni, Wni should be a con-tent word.
(3) Calculate the value of C(Wni) for everyWni and add Wni to T if its C(Wni) is greaterthan the threshold Lc.
In this paper, we choose?=0.25, ?=1, and Lc=0.8 according to our expe-rience and experiment results.4.2 The Extraction of Topic Sentiment Sen-tencesTopic sentiment sentences are essential in theanalysis of the SP of reviews.
Sentiment analysisbased on topic sentiment sentences excludes un-related sentiment and makes ?homogeneous?sentiment computable.
Topic sentiment sen-tences are extracted by 2 steps.
(1) Extract topic sentences from a review.Given a definite T, to extract topic sentences isactually the computing of semantic similarity ofcandidate sentences and the topic T. Factors thatinfluence the similarity degree are the amount ofidentical words and strings, the length of iden-tical words and strings, the position of a candi-date sentence, semantic similarity of non-identical words.The amount of identical words and strings.The more identical words or strings a candidatesentence has with T, the more likely they aresimilar in topic.The length of identical words and strings.The longer an identical string (counted by word)shared by a candidate sentence and T, the morelikely they are similar in topic.The position of a candidate sentence.
Wehold that sentences in a paragraph are not in thesame importance.
As is the general commonknowledge, the beginning and ending sentencein a paragraph are often more important thanother sentences and thus receive more weights.We use HowNet, a Chinese ontology, to com-pute the semantic similarity and assign eachcandidate sentence a value of similarity.
If thesimilarity value of a sentence is greater than thethreshold Ls, it is taken as a topic sentence.
(2) Extract sentiment sentences from topicsentences.
We use a precompiled sentiment lex-icon to roughly judge whether a sentence ex-presses sentiment or not.Through the above procedures, the topic sen-timent sentences in a Chinese review, each witha value indicating the distance in similarity withthe topic, are extracted and arranged into orderby value.
We call them the set of candidate topicsentiment sentences.5 Recognizing the Sentiment PolarityBased on Topic Sentiment SentencesBased on section 3.3, in Chinese reviews, thehigher similarity degree a topic sentiment sen-tence gets, the more likely it is a key sentenceexpressing the writers?
basic sentiment orienta-tion.
But meanwhile, to avoid excessively rely-ing on too few candidate topic sentiment sen-tences, more sentences are required to be ana-lyzed to assure precision.
Therefore, the numberof sentences selected from the set of candidatetopic sentiment sentences for final sentimentanalysis is quite a question worth careful consid-eration.Different Chinese reviews have differentnumbers of topic sentiment sentences.
Howmany topic sentiment sentences a review has isdetermined by various factors.
We find out, afteran investigation of 560 Chinese reviews, thatgenerally a Chinese review has not more than 7topic sentiment sentences and the average num-ber of that is about 4.
Besides, long reviews tendto have rather more topic sentiment sentence.Thus we define that for any review the numberof topic sentiment sentences which are needed tobe analyzed as:N(tss) ?
?                                                (2)? LQ WKH DERYH IRUPXOD LV DQ DGMXVWDEOHSDUa-meter which is determined by the ratio of thelength of the analyzing review and the averagelength of a set of reference reviews.N(tss) topic sentiment sentences with mostweights are drawn from the set of candidate top-ic sentiment sentences and then are computed bya sentence-level sentiment analyzer.
The averagescore of them is taken as O(r), i.e.
the overall SPof a review.?
)(1)()(1)(tssNiitssSPtssNrO(3)We use a semantic approach in the sentence-level sentiment analyzer.
For each sentence, aChinese dependency parser is used to distinguishthe dependency relations between language units,especially the probable relations between thetopic words and the sentiment expressions, andthe relations between the sentiment expressionsand their modifiers.
Making use of the syntacticinformation, the sentiment of a sentence is de-termined mainly by the sentiment expressions init according to a precompiled sentiment lexicon.Meanwhile, the following factors are considered.Negatives.
Negatives inverse the sentiment ofa sentence.Connectors.
Some connectors strengthen theoriginal sentiment while others inverse the origi-nal sentiment.Intensifiers.
Intensifiers make the originalsentiment more forcefully.Discourse makers.
In linguistics, a discoursemarker is a word or phrase that is relatively syn-tax-independent and does not change the mean-ing of the sentence.
However, discourse markeritself has certain semantic orientation: some ofthem are positive, some are negative and othersare neutral.
Thus discourse marker help recog-nize the SP in a sentence.Punctuations.
We pay special attention toquestion mark and exclamatory mark, especiallywhen there is a negative in a question sentence.6 Experiments and Results6.1 DataThe data used in the experiment are Chinese cur-rent affairs reviews.
They are originally col-lected from the web-site http://opinion.people.com.cn/ and thencleansed and stored as text.
400 texts are ran-domly selected from the reviews set.
3 annota-tors are trained and then instructed to annotatethe topic sentiment sentences and judge the SPthe 400 reviews individually.
The following ta-ble shows the general information of the annota-tion result.Table 2 General Information of the AnnotationResultsAnnotatorPos.textsNeg.textsOthertexts1 87 302 112 93 298 93 88 288 14Finally we get 370 texts (86 positive and 284negative) totally agreed by the 3 annotators.
Weuse them as the test reviews.6.2 ResourcesIn order to perform an SP analysis, the followingresources are required to use.Sentiment Lexicon.
We manually build upthe sentiment lexicon.
The words and phrases inthe lexicon are mainly from three dictionaries:Positive Word Dictionary, Negative Word Dic-tionary and A Student?s Positive and NegativeWord Dictionary.
We also get some words fromHowNet Sentiment Dictionary and NTUSD.
Foreach word or phrase, we give its part of speech,positive value and negative value.
The positiveand negative values of words and phrases aremanually assigned by annotators according tohuman intuition.Other lexicons.
We collect as many negatives,connectors, intensifiers and discourse markers aswe can and make them into different lexicons.HowNet.
As a Chinese ontology, HowNet isused to compute the semantic similarity ofwords.LTP.
LTP (Language Technology Platformdeveloped by HIT) is a package of tools toprocess Chinese text, with a Chinese dependen-cy parser in it.
We use the dependency parser toperform a syntactic analysis of sentences.CUCSeg.
CUCSeg is a Chinese pos tagger.We use it to segment Chinese words.6.3 Results of the Extraction of Topic Sen-timent Sentences ExperimentThe extraction of topic sentiment sentences is avital task in this research.
Annotators judge inthe test reviews which sentences are topic senti-ment sentences firstly and method described in4.2 is applied and the result of which is eva-luated.
We adopt the commonly used precision,recall and F-measure to measure the result.
Itshows as follows.Table 3 Result of the Extraction of topic Senti-ment SentencesThreshold Precision Recall F1Ls=0.64 89.9 82.3 86.1Ls=0.55 86.1 90.6 88.3Ls=0.37 77.8 98.4 88.1The above result shows we get a rather highprecision and recall when Ls=0.55.6.4 Results of Recognizing the SP of Chi-nese Reviews ExperimentWe use precision to measure the result.
Compar-ison is made among Turney?s method (2002),Pang?s SVM method (2002) and our method.Table 4 Result of the SP of Chinese reviewsMethod PrecisionTurney?s 74.39Pang?s SVM 82.9Ours 86.8Compared to reports in earlier works, our ap-proach achieves a relatively high precision.We reexamine the 49 texts which are judgedwrong, together with the 4 extracted representa-tive topic sentiment sentences of each text.
Erroranalysis shows that about 35% of errors aremade by the topic identification step, about 49%of errors are made by the sentence-level senti-ment analysis, about 4% of errors are made dueto the faultiness of the sentiment lexicon.
Andthe causes of other errors are to be explored.7 ConclusionWe have presented a topic sentiment sentence-based approach to explore the overall sentimentpolarity of Chinese reviews.
Considering thefeatures of Chinese reviews, we identify the top-ic of a review using an n-gram approach.
To ex-tract topic sentiment sentences, we compute thesemantic similarity of a candidate sentence andthe ascertained topic and meanwhile determinewhether the sentence is subjective.
A certainnumber of these sentences are selected as repre-sentatives according to their semantic similarityvalue with relation to the topic.
The average val-ue of the representative topic sentiment sen-tences is calculated and taken as the sentimentpolarity of a review.Error analysis indicates that to enhance theidentification of topic, to build up a better sen-tence-level sentiment analyzer and to compile abetter sentiment lexicon will help improve thefinal result.AcknowledgementsWe thank Prof. Ting Liu at Harbin Institute of Tech-nology for sharing the LTP package and Mr. Zhen-dong Dong for sharing the HowNet.
We highly ap-preciate that Hanbing Zhao, Nan Li and Yifu Xuehave done a lot of heavy and tedious annotation workfor this research.ReferencesHu, M. and Liu, Bing.
2004.
Mining and summariz-ing customer reviews.
In Proceedings of the 10thACM SIGKDD.168- 177.Kim, S., Hovy E. 2004.
Determining the Sentiment ofOpinions.
In Proceedings of COLING-04: the 20thInternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics.Lun-Wei Ku and Hsin-Hsi Chen 2007.
Mining Opi-nions from the Web: Beyond Relevance Retrieval.Journal of American Society for InformationScience and Technology, Special Issue on MiningWeb Resources for Enhancing Information Re-trieval, 58(12): 1838-1850.Meng, F., L. Cai, B. Chen, and P. Wu.
2008.
Re-search on the recognition of text valence.
Journalof Chinese Computer Systems, 28(2007): 1-4.Pang Bo, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan.2002.
Thumbs up?
Sentiment classification usingmachine learning techniques.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP, pages 79-86.Turney, P. 2002.
Thumbs Up or Thumbs Down?
Se-mantic Orientation Applied to Unsupervised Clas-sification of Reviews.
In Proceedings of the 40thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.
417-424.Wang, Gen and Jun Zhao.
2007.
Sentence SentimentAnalysis Based on Multi-redundant-labeled CRFs.Journal of Chinese Information Processing, 21(5):51-56.Wang, C., Lu, J., Zhang, G. 2005.
A semantic classi-fication approach for online Product reviews.
InProceedings of the 2005 IEEE/WIC/ACM Interna-tional Conference on web intelligence (Wl?5).Wang, G. and Zhao, J.
2007.
Sentence SentimentAnalysis Based on Multi-redundant-labeled CRFs.Journal of Chinese Information Processing.
5, 51-56.Wang,C.
J. Lu and G. Zhang.
2005.
A semantic clas-sification approach for online product reviews, InProceedings of the 2005 IEEE/WIC/ACM Interna-tional Conference on Web Intelligence.
276-279.Wiebe J.
2000.
Learning subjective adjectives fromcorpora.
In Proceeding of the 17th National Confe-rence on Artificial intelligence.
Menlo Park, Calif.AAAI Press, 735-740.Wiebe J., Riloff E.2005.
Creating Subjective and Ob-jective Sentence Classifiers from UnannotatedText.
In: Proceedings of CICLING.Wiebe J., Wilson T., BrueeR., Bell M. and MartinM.2004.
Learning subjective language, Computa-tional Linguistics, 30(3):277-308.Yi J., Nasukawa T., Bunescu R., NiblackW.2003.Sentiment analyzer: Extracting sentimentsabout a given topic using natural languageprocessing techniques.
In Proceeding of the ThirdIEEE International Conference on Data Mining.Yu, H. and Hatzivassiloglou Vasileios.2003.
Towardsanswering opinion questions.
In Proceeding ofEMNLP.
2003.Zheng, W. and Q. Ye.
2005.
Sentiment classificationof Chinese traveler reviews by support vector ma-chine algorithm.
In The Third International Sym-posium on Intelligent Information TechnologyApplication, 335-338.
