Proceedings of the Workshop on Negation and Speculation in Natural Language Processing, pages 69?77,Uppsala, July 2010.Evaluating a Meta-Knowledge Annotation Scheme for Bio-EventsRaheel Nawaz1 Paul Thompson1,2 Sophia Ananiadou1,21School of Computer Science, University of Manchester, UK2National Centre for Text Mining, University of Manchester, UKE-mail: nawazr@cs.man.ac.uk, paul.thompson@manchester.ac.uk,sophia.ananiadou@manchester.ac.ukAbstractThe correct interpretation of biomedical textsby text mining systems requires the recogni-tion of a range of types of high-level informa-tion (or meta-knowledge) about the text.
Ex-amples include expressions of negation andspeculation, as well as pragmatic/rhetorical in-tent (e.g.
whether the information expressedrepresents a hypothesis, generally acceptedknowledge, new experimental knowledge,etc.)
Although such types of information havepreviously been annotated at the text-spanlevel (most commonly sentences), annotationat the level of the event is currently quitesparse.
In this paper, we focus on the evalua-tion of the multi-dimensional annotationscheme that we have developed specificallyfor enriching bio-events with meta-knowledgeinformation.
Our annotation scheme is in-tended to be general enough to allow integra-tion with different types of bio-event annota-tion, whilst being detailed enough to captureimportant subtleties in the nature of the meta-knowledge expressed in the text.
To ourknowledge, our scheme is unique within thefield with regards to the diversity of meta-knowledge aspects annotated for each event,whilst the evaluation results have confirmedits feasibility and soundness.1 IntroductionThe ability to recognise high-level information(or meta-knowledge) relating to the interpreta-tion of texts is an important task for text miningsystems.
There are several types of meta-knowledge that fall under this category.
For ex-ample, the detection of expressions of specula-tion and negation is important across all do-mains, although the way in which these phenom-ena are expressed may be domain-specific.
Inscientific texts, it is also important to be able todetermine other types of information, such as theauthor?s rhetorical/pragmatic intent (de Waard etal., 2009).
This would correspond to whether theinformation expressed represents a hypothesis,accepted knowledge, new experimental knowl-edge, etc.The ability to distinguish between these dif-ferent types of information can be important fortasks such as  building and updating models ofbiological processes, like pathways (Oda et al,2008), and curation of biological databases(Ashburner et al, 2000).
Central to both of thesetasks is the identification of new knowledge thatcan enhance these resources, e.g.
to build uponan existing, but incomplete model of a biologicalprocess (Lisacek et al, 2005) or to ensure thatthe database is kept up to date.
Any new knowl-edge added should be supported though evi-dence, which could include linking hypotheseswith experimental findings.
It is also important totake into account inconsistencies and contradic-tions reported in the literature.The production of annotated corpora can helpto train text mining systems to recognise types ofmeta-knowledge, such as the above.
Although anumber of such corpora have already been pro-duced, different annotation schemes are requiredaccording to the exact domain under considera-tion, as well as the types of task that will be un-dertaken by the text mining system.The work described in this paper is focused onthe design and evaluation of the meta-knowledgeannotation scheme described in Nawaz et al,(2010).
The annotation scheme has been specifi-cally designed to recognise a range of meta-knowledge types for events extracted from bio-medical texts (henceforth bio-events).
The aim isto facilitate the development of more useful sys-tems in the context of various biomedical infor-mation extraction (IE) and textual inference (TI)tasks.
Although the scheme has been designed69for application to existing bio-event corpora, it isintended to be applied to any type of bio-relationcorpora, and can easily be tailored for other typesof relations/events within the domain.1.1  Bio-Event Representation of TextSearching for relevant information in electronicdocuments is most commonly carried out by en-tering keywords into a search engine.
However,such searches will normally return a huge num-ber of documents, many of which will be irrele-vant to the user?s needs.A more promising and efficient way of search-ing is over events that have been extracted fromtexts through the application of natural languageprocessing methods.
An event is a structured rep-resentation of a certain piece of information con-tained within the text, which is usually anchoredto a particular word in the text (typically a verbor noun) that is central to the description of theevent.
Events are often represented by a tem-plate-like structure with slots that are filled bythe event participants.
Each event participant isalso assigned a role within the event.
These par-ticipants can be entities, concepts or even otherevents.
This kind of event representation allowsthe information contained in a text to be repre-sented as a collection of nested events.A bio-event is an event specialised for thebiomedical domain.
Kim et al (2008) define abio-event as a dynamic bio-relation involvingone or more participants.
These participants canbe bio-entities or (other) bio-events, and are eachassigned a semantic role/slot like theme andcause etc.
Each bio-event is typically assigned atype/class from a chosen bio-event taxon-omy/ontology, e.g., the GENIA Event Ontology(Kim et al, 2008).
Similarly, the bio-entities arealso assigned types/classes from a chosen bio-term taxonomy/ontology, e.g., the Gene Ontol-ogy (Ashburner et al, 2000).As an example, consider the simple sentenceshown in Figure 1.This sentence contains a single bio-event, an-chored to the verb activates.
Figure 2 shows atypical structured representation of this bio-event.The fact that the verb is anchored to the verbactivates allows the event-type of positive regu-lation to be assigned.
The event has two slots,i.e.
theme and cause whose labels help to charac-terise the contribution that the slot filler makestowards the meaning of the event.
In this case,the slots are filled by the subject and object ofthe verb activates, both of which correspond todifferent types of bio-entities (i.e.
operon andprotein).IE systems trained to extract bio-events fromtexts allow users to formulate semantic queriesover the extracted events.
Such queries canspecify semantic restrictions on the events interms of event types, semantic role labels andnamed entity types etc.
(Miyao et al, 2006), inaddition to particular keywords.
For example, itwould be possible to search only for those textscontaining bio-events of type nega-tive_regulation where the cause is an entity oftype protein.
Such queries provide a great dealmore descriptive power than traditional keywordsearches over unstructured documents.
Bio-medical corpora that have been manually anno-tated with event level information (e.g., Pyysaloet al, 2007; Kim et al, 2008; Thompson et al,2009) facilitate the training of systems such asthose described above.Whilst event-based querying has advantagesfor efficient searching, the extracted events havelittle practical use if they are not accompanied bymeta-knowledge information to aid in their inter-pretation.1.2 Existing Meta-knowledge AnnotationVarious corpora of biomedical literature (ab-stracts and/or full papers) have been producedthat feature some degree of meta-knowledge an-notation.
These corpora vary in both the richnessof the annotation added, and the type/size of theunits at which the meta-knowledge annotationhas been performed.
Taking the unit of annota-tion into account, we can distinguish betweenannotations that apply to continuous text-spans,and annotations that have been performed at theevent level.Text-Span Annotation: Such annotations havemostly been carried out at the sentence level.They normally concentrate on a single aspect (orThe results suggest that the narL gene productactivates the nitrate reductase operon.Figure 1.
A Simple Sentence from a Biomedi-cal AbstractFigure 2.
Typical Structured Representationof the Bio-Event mentioned in Figure 1EVENT-TRIGGER: activatesEVENT-TYPE: positive_regulationTHEME: nitrate reductase operon: operonCAUSE: narL gene product: protein70dimension) of meta-knowledge, normally eitherspeculation/certainty level, (e.g., Light et al,2004; Medlock & Briscoe, 2007; Vincze et al,2008) or general information content/rhetoricalintent, e.g., background, methods, results, in-sights.
This latter type of annotation has beenattempted both on abstracts, (e.g., McKnight &Srinivasan, 2003; Ruch et al, 2007) and full pa-pers, (e.g.
Teufel et al, 1999; Langer et al, 2004;Mizuta & Collier, 2004), with the number of dis-tinct annotation categories varying between 4and 14.Despite the availability of these corpora, anno-tation at the sentence level can often be toogranular.
In terms of information content, a sen-tence may describe, for example, both an ex-perimental method and its results.
The situationbecomes more complicated if a sentence containsan expression of speculation.
If this is onlymarked at the sentence level, there may be con-fusion about which part(s) of the sentence areaffected by the speculative expression.Certain corpora and associated systems haveattempted to address these issues.
The BioScopecorpus (Vincze et al, 2008) annotates the scopesof negative and speculative keywords, whilstMorante & Daelemans (2009) have trained a sys-tem to undertake this task.
The scheme describedby Wilbur et al (2006) applies annotation tofragments of sentences, which are created on thebasis of changes in the meta-knowledge ex-pressed.
The scheme consists of multiple annota-tion dimensions which capture aspects of bothcertainty and rhetorical/pragmatic intent,amongst other things.
Training a system to auto-matically annotate these dimensions is shown tobe highly feasible (Shatkay et al, 2008).Event-Level Annotation: Explicit annotation ofmeta-knowledge at the event-level is currentlyrather minimal within biomedical corpora.Whilst several corpora contain annotations todistinguish positive and negative events (e.g.Sanchez-Graillet & Poesio, 2007; Pyysalo et al,2007), the annotation of the GENIA Event Cor-pus (Kim et al, 2008) is slightly more extensive,in that it additionally annotates certainty level.To our knowledge, no existing bio-event corpushas attempted annotation that concerns rhetori-cal/pragmatic intent.1.3 The Need for an Event-Centric Meta-Knowledge Annotation SchemeIn comparison to meta-knowledge annotationcarried out at the text-span level, the amount ofannotation carried out at the event level is quitesparse.
The question thus arises as to whether itis possible to use systems trained on text-spanannotated corpora to assign meta-knowledge tobio-events, or whether new annotation at theevent level is required.Some corpora seem better suited to this pur-pose than others ?
whilst sentence-level annota-tions are certainly too granular for an event-centric view of the text, sentence fragments, suchas those identified by Wilbur et al (2006), arelikely to correspond more closely to the extent oftext that describes an event and its slots.
Like-wise, knowing the scopes of negative and specu-lative keywords within a sentence may be a use-ful aid in determining whether they affect theinterpretation of a particular event.However, the information provided in thesecorpora is still not sufficiently precise for event-level meta-knowledge annotation.
Even within atext fragment, there may be several different bio-events, each with slightly different meta-knowledge interpretations.
In a similar way, notall events that occur within the scope of a nega-tion or speculation keyword are necessarily af-fected by it.Based on these observations, we have devel-oped a meta-knowledge annotation scheme thatis specifically tailored to bio-events.
Our schemeannotates various different aspects or dimensionsof meta-knowledge.
A close examination of alarge number of relevant bio-events has resultedin a scheme that has some similarities to previ-ously proposed schemes, but has a number ofdifferences that seem especially relevant whendealing with events, e.g.
the annotation of themanner of the event.
The scheme is intended tobe general enough to allow integration with ex-isting bio-event annotation schemes, whilst beingdetailed enough to capture important subtleties inthe nature of the meta-knowledge expressedabout the event.1.4 Lexical Markers of Meta-KnowledgeMost of the existing corpora mentioned aboveannotate text spans or events with particularcategories (e.g.
certainty level or general infor-mation type) in different meta-knowledge di-mensions.
However, what they do not normallydo is to annotate lexical clues or keywords usedto determine the correct values.A number of previous studies have demon-strated the importance of lexical markers (i.e.,words or phrases) that can accompany statementsin scientific articles in determining the intended71interpretation of the text (e.g.
Hyland, 1996; Ri-zomilioti 2006).
We also performed a similarstudy (Thompson et al, 2008) although, in con-trast to other studies, we took a multi-dimensional approach to the categorisation ofsuch lexical items, acknowledging that severaltypes of important information may be expressedthrough different words in the same sentence.
Asan example, let us consider the example sentencein Figure 3.The author?s pragmatic/rhetorical intent to-wards the statement that the catalytic role ofthese side chains is associated with their interac-tion with the DNA substrate is encoded by theword indicate, which shows that the statementrepresents an analysis of the evidence stated atthe beginning of the sentence, i.e., that the muta-tions at positions 849 and 668 have DNA-binding properties.
Furthermore, the author?scertainty level (i.e., their degree of confidence)towards this analysis is shown by the word may.Here, the author is uncertain about the validity oftheir analysis.Whilst our previous work served to demon-strate that the different aspects of meta-knowledge that can be specified lexically withintexts require a multi-dimensional analysis to cor-rectly capture their subtleties, it showed that thepresence of particular lexical items is not theonly important feature for determining meta-knowledge categories.
In particular, their pres-ence does not guarantee that the ?expected?
in-terpretation can be assumed (S?ndor, 2007).
Inaddition, not all types of meta-knowledge areindicated through explicit markers.
Mizuta &Collier (2004) note that  rhetorical zones may beindicated not only through explicit lexical mark-ers, but also through features such as the mainverb in the clause and the position of the sen-tence within the article or abstract.For these reasons, we perform annotation onall relevant instances, regardless of the presenceof lexical markers.
This will allow systems to betrained that can learn to determine the correctmeta-knowledge category, even when lexicalmarkers are not present.
However, due to theproven importance of lexical markers in deter-mining certain meta-knowledge dimensions, ourannotation scheme annotates such markers,whenever they are present.2 Annotation SchemeThe annotation scheme we present here is aslightly modified version of our original meta-knowledge annotation scheme (Nawaz et al,2010).
The modified scheme consists of fivemeta-knowledge dimensions, each with a set ofcomplete and mutually-exclusive categories, i.e.,any given bio-event belongs to exactly one cate-gory in each dimension.
Our chosen set of anno-tation dimensions has been motivated by themajor information needs of biologists discussedearlier, i.e., the ability to distinguish betweendifferent intended interpretations of events.In order to minimise the annotation burden,the number of possible categories within eachdimension has been kept as small as possible,whilst still respecting important distinctions inmeta-knowledge that have been observed duringour corpus study.The advantage of using a multi-dimensionalscheme is that the interplay between differentvalues of each dimension can reveal both subtleand substantial differences in the types of meta-knowledge expressed in the surrounding text.Therefore, in most cases, the exact rhetori-cal/pragmatic intent of an event can only be de-termined by considering a combination of thevalues of different dimensions.
This aspect of ourscheme is further discussed in section 3.Figure 4 provides an overview of the annota-tion scheme.
The boxes with the light-coloured(grey) background correspond to informationthat is common to most bio-event annotationschemes, i.e., the participants in the event, to-gether with an indication of the class or type ofFigure 4.
Bio-Event AnnotationFigure 3.
Example SentenceThe DNA-binding properties of mutations at posi-tions 849 and 668 may indicate that the catalyticrole of these side chains is associated with theirinteraction with the DNA substrate.72the event.
The boxes with the darker (green)backgrounds correspond to our proposed meta-knowledge annotation dimensions and their pos-sible values.
The remainder of this section pro-vides brief details of each annotation dimension.2.1 Knowledge Type (KT)This dimension is responsible for capturing thegeneral information content of the event.
Whilstless detailed than some of the previously pro-posed sentence-level schemes, its purpose is toform the basis of distinguishing between themost critical types of rhetorical/pragmatic intent,according to the needs of biologists.
Each eventis thus classified into one of the following fourcategories:Investigation: Enquiries or investigations, whichhave either already been conducted or areplanned for the future, typically marked by lexi-cal clues like examined, investigated and studied,etc.Observation: Direct observations, often repre-sented by lexical clues like found, observed andreport, etc.
Simple past tense sentences typicallyalso describe observations.
Such events representexperimental knowledge.Analysis: Inferences, interpretations, specula-tions or other types of cognitive analysis, typi-cally expressed by lexical clues like suggest, in-dicate, therefore and conclude etc.
Such events,if they are interpretations or reliable inferencesbased on experimental results, can also constituteanother type of (indirect) experimental knowl-edge.
Weaker inferences or speculations, how-ever, may be considered as hypotheses whichneed further proof through experiments.General: Scientific facts, processes, states ormethodology.
This is the default category for theknowledge type dimension.2.2 Certainty Level (CL)The value of this dimension is almost alwaysindicated through the presence/absence of an ex-plicit lexical marker.
In scientific literature, it isnormally only applicable to events whose KTcorresponds either to Analysis or General.
In thecase of Analysis events, CL encodes confidencein the truth of the event, whilst for Generalevents, there is a temporal aspect, to account forcases where a particular process is explicitlystated to occur most (but not all) of the time, us-ing a marker such as normally, or only occasion-ally, using a marker like sometimes.
Events cor-responding to direct Observations are not open tojudgements of certainty, nor are Investigationevents, which refer to things which have not yethappened or have not been verified.Regarding the choice of values for the CL di-mension, there is an ongoing discussion as towhether it is possible to partition the epistemicscale into discrete categories (Rubin, 2007).However, the use of a number of distinct catego-ries is undoubtedly easier for annotation pur-poses and has been proposed in a number of pre-vious schemes.
Although recent work has sug-gested the use of  four or more categories (Shat-kay et al, 2008; Thompson et al, 2008), our ini-tial analysis of bio-event corpora has shown thatonly three levels of certainty seem readily distin-guishable for bio-events.
This is in line withHoye (1997), whose analysis of general Englishshowed that there are at least three articulatedpoints on the epistemic scale.We have chosen to use numerical values forthis dimension, in order to reduce potential anno-tator confusions or biases that may be introducedthrough the use of labels corresponding to par-ticular lexical markers of each category, such asprobable or possible, and also to account for thefact that slightly different interpretations apply tothe different levels, according to whether theevent has a KT value of Analysis or General.L3: No expression of uncertainty or speculation(default category)L2: High confidence or slight speculation.L1: Low confidence or considerable speculation;typical lexical markers include may, might andperhaps.2.3 SourceThe source of experimental evidence providesimportant information for biologists.
This isdemonstrated by its annotation during the crea-tion of the Gene Ontology (Ashburner et al,2000) and in the corpus created by Wilbur et al(2006).
The Source dimension can also help indistinguishing new experimental knowledgefrom previously reported knowledge.
Ourscheme distinguishes two categories, namely:Other: The event is attributed to a previousstudy.
In this case, explicit clues (citations orphrases like previous studies etc.)
are normallypresent.Current: The event makes an assertion that canbe (explicitly or implicitly) attributed to the cur-rent study.
This is the default category, and isassigned in the absence of explicit lexical or con-textual clues.732.4 PolarityThis dimension identifies negated events.
Al-though certain bio-event corpora are annotatedwith this information, it is still missing from oth-ers.
The indication of whether an event is ne-gated is vital, as the interpretation of a negatedevent instance is completely opposite to the in-terpretation of a non-negated (positive) instanceof the same event.We define negation as the absence or non-existence of an entity or a process.
Negation istypically expressed by the adverbial not and thenominal no.
However, other lexical devices likenegative affixals (un- and in-, etc.
), restrictiveverbs (fail, lack, and unable, etc.
), restrictivenouns (exception, etc.
), certain adjectives (inde-pendent, etc.
), and certain adverbs (without, etc.
)can also be used.2.5 MannerEvents may be accompanied by a word or phrasewhich provides an indication of the rate, level,strength or intensity of the interaction.
We referto this as the Manner of the event.
Informationregarding manner is absent from the majority ofexisting bio-event corpora, but yet the presenceof such words can be significant in the correctinterpretation of the event.
Our scheme distin-guishes 3 categories of Manner, namely:High: Typically expressed by adverbs and adjec-tives like strongly, rapidly and high, etc.Low: Typically expressed by adverbs and adjec-tives like weakly, slightly and slow, etc.Neutral: Default category assigned to all eventswithout an explicit indication of manner.3 Hyper-DimensionsDetermining the pragmatic/rhetorical intent be-hind an event is not completely possible usingany one of our explicitly annotated dimensions.Although the Knowledge Type value forms thebasis for this, it is not in itself sufficient.
How-ever, a defining feature of our annotation schemeis that additional information can be inferred byconsidering combinations of some of the explic-itly annotated dimensions.
We refer to this addi-tional information as ?latent?
or ?hyper?
dimen-sions of our scheme.
We have identified twosuch hyper-dimensions.3.1 New KnowledgeThe isolation of events describing new knowl-edge can be important in certain tasks undertakenby biologists, as explained earlier.
Events withthe Knowledge Type of Observation could corre-spond to new knowledge, but only if they repre-sent observations from the current study, ratherthan observations cited from elsewhere.
In asimilar way, an Analysis drawn from experimen-tal results in the current study could be treated asnew knowledge, but generally only if it repre-sents a straightforward interpretation of results,rather than something more speculative.Hence, we consider New Knowledge to be ahyper-dimension of our scheme.
Its value (eitherYes or No) is inferred by considering a combina-tion of the value assignments for the KT, Sourceand CL dimensions.Table 1 shows the inference table that can beused to obtain the value for the New Knowledgehyper-dimension from the assigned values of theSource, KT and CL dimensions.
The symbol ?X?indicates a ?don?t care condition?, meaning thatthis value does not have any impact on the result.Source(Annotated)KT(Annotated)CL(Annotated)NewKnowledge(Inferred)Other X X NoX X L2 NoX X L1 NoCurrent Observation L3 YesCurrent Analysis L3 YesX General X NoX Investigation X NoTable 1.
Inference-Table for New KnowledgeHyper-Dimension3.2 HypothesisA further hyper-dimension of our scheme is Hy-pothesis.
The binary value of this hyper-dimension can be inferred by considering thevalues of KT and CL.
Events with a KT value ofInvestigation can always be assumed to be a hy-pothesis, However, if the KT value is Analysis,then only those events with a CL value of L1 orL2 (speculative inferences made on the basis ofresults) should be considered as hypothesis, to bematched with more definite experimental evi-dence when available.
A value of L3 in this in-stance would normally be classed as new knowl-edge, as explained in the previous section.Table 2 shows the inference table that can beused to get the value for the Hypothesis hyper-dimension.74KT(Annotated)CL(Annotated)Hypothesis(Inferred)General X NoObservation X NoAnalysis L3 NoAnalysis L2 YesAnalysis L1 YesInvestigation X YesTable 2.
Inference-Table for HypothesisHyper-Dimension4 EvaluationThe annotation scheme has been evaluatedthrough a small annotation experiment.
We ran-domly choose 70 abstracts from the GENIAPathway Corpus, which collectively contain over2600 annotated bio-events.
Two of the authorsindependently annotated these bio-events using aset of annotation guidelines.
These guidelineswere developed following an analysis of thevarious bio-event corpora and the output of theinitial case study (Nawaz et al, 2010).The highly favourable results of this experi-ment further confirmed the feasibility andsoundness of the annotation scheme.
The re-mainder of this section discusses the results inmore detail.Dimension Cohen?s KappaKnowledge Type 0.9017Certainty Level 0.9329Polarity 0.9059Manner 0.8944Source 0.9520Table 3.
Inter-Annotator Agreement4.1 Inter-Annotator AgreementWe have used the familiar measure of Cohen?skappa (Cohen, 1960) for assessing the quality ofannotation.
Table 3 shows the kappa values foreach annotated dimension.
The highest value ofkappa was achieved for the Source dimension,while the KT dimension yielded the lowest kappavalue.
Nevertheless, the kappa scores for all an-notation dimensions were in the good region(Krippendorff, 1980).4.2 Category DistributionKnowledge Type:  The most prevalent categoryfound in this dimension was Observation, with45% of all annotated events belonging to thiscategory.
Only a small fraction (4%) of theseevents was represented by an explicit lexical clue(mostly sensory verbs).
In most cases the tense,local context (position within the sentence) orglobal context (position within the document)were found to be important factors.The second most common category (37% ofall annotated events) was General.
We discov-ered that most (64%) of the events belonging tothis category were processes or states embeddedin noun phrases (such as c-fos expression).
Morethan a fifth of the General events (22%) ex-pressed known scientific facts, whilst a smallerfraction (14%) expressed experimental/scientificmethods (such as stimulation and incubationetc.).
Explicit lexical clues were found only forfacts, and even then in only 1% of cases.Analysis was the third most common category,comprising 16% of all annotated events.
Of theevents belonging to this category, 44% were de-ductions (CL=L1), whilst the remaining 54%were hedged interpretations (CL=L2/L3).
AllAnalysis events were marked with explicit lexicalclues.The least common category was Investigation(1.5% of all annotated events).
All Investigationevents were marked with explicit lexical clues.Certainty Level: L3 was found to be the mostprevalent category, corresponding to 93% of allevents.
The categories L2 and L1 occurred withfrequencies of 4.3% and 2.5%, respectively.
Therelative scarcity of speculative sentences in sci-entific literature is a well documented phenome-non (Thompson et al, 2008; Vincze et al, 2008).Vincze et al (2008) found that less than 18% ofsentences occurring in biomedical abstracts arespeculative.
Similarly, we found that around 20%of corpus events belong to speculative sentences.Since speculative sentences contain non-speculative events as well, the frequency ofspeculative events is expected to be much lessthan the frequency of speculative sentences.
Inaccordance with this hypothesis, we found thatonly 7% of corpus events were expressed withsome degree of speculation.
We also found thatalmost all speculated events had explicit lexicalclues.Polarity:  Our event-centric view of negationshowed just above 3% of the events to be ne-gated.
Similarly to speculation, the expected fre-75quency of negated events is lower than the fre-quency of negated sentences.
Another reason forfinding fewer negated events is the fact that, incontrast to previous schemes, we draw a distinc-tion between events that are negated and eventsexpressed with Low manner.
For example, cer-tain words like limited and barely are often con-sidered as negation clues.
However, we considerthem as clues for Low manner.
In all cases, nega-tion was expressed through explicit lexical clues.Manner: Whilst only a small fraction (4%) ofevents contains an indication of Manner, wefound that where present, manner conveys vitalinformation about the event.
Our results also re-vealed that indications of High manner are threetimes more frequent than the indications of Lowmanner.
We also noted that both High and Lowmanners were always indicated through the useof explicit clues.Source: Most (99%) of the events were found tobe of the Current category.
This is to be ex-pected, as authors tend to focus on current workin within abstracts.
It is envisaged, however, thatthis dimension will be more useful for analyzingfull papers.Hyper-dimensions: Using the inference tablesshown in section 3, we calculated that almost57% of the events represent New Knowledge, andjust above 8% represent Hypotheses.5 Conclusion and Future WorkWe have evaluated a slightly modified version ofour meta-knowledge annotation scheme for bio-events, first presented in Nawaz et al (2010).The scheme captures key information regardingthe correct interpretation of bio-events, which isnot currently annotated in existing bio-event cor-pora, but which we have shown to be critical in anumber of text mining tasks undertaken by bi-ologists.
The evaluation results have shown highinter-annotator agreement and a sufficient num-ber of annotations along each category in everydimension.
These results have served to confirmthe feasibility and soundness of the annotationscheme, and provide promising prospects for itsapplication to existing and new bio-event cor-pora.We are currently working on a large scale an-notation effort, involving multiple independentannotators.
Although our main objective is toenrich the entire GENIA event corpus with meta-knowledge information, we also plan to create asmall corpus of full papers enriched with bio-event and meta-knowledge annotations.AcknowledgmentsThe work described in this paper has beenfunded by the Biotechnology and Biological Sci-ences Research Council through grant numbersBBS/B/13640, BB/F006039/1 (ONDEX)ReferencesM.
Ashburner, C. A.
Ball, J.
A. Blake, D. Botstein, H.Butler, J. M. Cherry, A. P. Davis, K. Dolinski, S.S. Dwight, J. T. Eppig, M. A. Harris, D. P. Hill, L.Issel-Tarver, A. Kasarskis, S. Lewis, J. C. Matese,J.
E. Richardson, M. Ringwald, G. M. Rubin andG.
Sherlock.
2000.
Gene ontology: tool for theunification of biology.
Nature Genetics 25:25-29.J.
Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreement for nomi-nal scales.
Educational and Psychological Meas-urement 20: 37?46.A.
de Waard, B. Shum, A. Carusi, J.
Park, M. Sam-wald and ?.
S?ndor.
2009.
Hypotheses, Evidenceand Relationships: The HypER Approach for Rep-resenting Scientific Knowledge Claims.
In Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on Semantic Web Appli-cations in Scientific Discourse.
Available at:http://oro.open.ac.uk/18563/L.
Hoye.
1997.
Adverbs and Modality in English.London & New York: LongmanK.
Hyland.
1996.
Talking to the Academy: Forms ofHedging in Science Research Articles.
WrittenCommunication 13(2):251-281.K.
Hyland.
2005.
Metadiscourse: Exploring Interac-tion in Writing.
London: ContinuumJ.
Kim, T. Ohta and J. Tsujii.
2008.
Corpus annotationfor mining biomedical events from literature.
BMCBioinformatics 9:10K.
Krippendorff.
1980.
Content Analysis: An Intro-duction to Its Methodology.
Beverly Hills: SagePublicationsH.
Langer, H. Lungen and P. S. Bayerl.
2004.
Texttype structure and logical document structure.
InProceedings of the ACL Workshop on DiscourseAnnotation, pages 49-56M.
Light, X. T. Qui and P. Srinivasan.
2004.
The lan-guage of bioscience: Facts, speculations, andstatements in between.
In Proceedings of the Bio-Link 2004 Workshop on Linking Biological Litera-ture, Ontologies and Databases: Tools for Users,pages 17-24.F.
Lisacek, C. Chichester, A. Kaplan and A. Sandor.2005.
Discovering Paradigm Shift Patterns in Bio-medical Abstracts: Application to Neurodegenera-tive Diseases.
In Proceedings of SMBM 2005,pages 212-21776L.
McKnight and P. Srinivasan.
2003.
Categorizationof sentence types in medical abstracts.
In Proceed-ings of the 2003 Annual Symposium of AMIA,pages 440-444.B.
Medlock and T. Briscoe.
2007.
Weakly supervisedlearning for hedge classification in scientific litera-ture.
In Proceedings of ACL 2007, pages 992- 999.Y.
Miyao, T. Ohta, K. Masuda, Y. Tsuruoka, K. Yo-shida, T. Ninomiya and J. Tsujii.
2006.
SemanticRetrieval for the Accurate Identification of Rela-tional Concepts in Massive Textbases.
In Proceed-ings of COLING-ACL 2006, pages 1017-1024.Y.
Mizuta and N. Collier.
2004.
Zone identification inbiology articles as a basis for information extrac-tion.
In Proceedings of the joint NLPBA/BioNLPWorkshop on Natural Language for BiomedicalApplications, pages 119-125.R.
Morante and W. Daelemans.
2009.
A metalearningapproach to processing the scope of negation.
InProceedings of CoNLL 2009, pages 21-29.R.
Nawaz, P. Thompson, J. McNaught and S.Ananiadou.
2010.
Meta-Knowledge Annotation ofBio-Events.
In Proceedings of LREC 2010, pages2498-2507.K.
Oda, J. Kim, T. Ohta, D. Okanohara, T. Matsuzaki,Y.
Tateisi and J. Tsujii.
2008.
New challenges fortext mining: mapping between text and manuallycurated pathways.
BMC Bioinformatics 9(Suppl 3):S5.S.
Pyysalo, F. Ginter, J. Heimonen, J. Bjorne, J.Boberg, J. Jarvinen and T. Salakoski.
2007.
BioIn-fer: a corpus for information extraction in the bio-medical domain.
BMC Bioinformatics 8:50.V.
Rizomilioti.
2006.
"Exploring Epistemic Modalityin Academic Discourse Using Corpora."
Informa-tion Technology in Languages for Specific Pur-poses 7, pages 53-71V.
L. Rubin.
2007.
Stating with certainty or statingwith doubt: Intercoder reliability results for manualannotation of epistemically modalized statements.In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2007, CompanionVolume,  pages 141-144.P.
Ruch, C. Boyer, C. Chichester, I. Tbahriti, A.Geissb?hler, P. Fabry, J. Gobeill, V. Pillet, D.Rebholz-Schuhmann and C. Lovis.
2007.
Usingargumentation to extract key sentences from bio-medical abstracts.
International Journal of MedicalInformatics 76(2-3):195-200.O.
Sanchez-Graillet and M. Poesio.
2007.
Negation ofprotein-protein interactions: analysis and extrac-tion.
Bioinformatics 23(13):i424-i432?.
S?ndor.
2007.
Modeling metadiscourse conveyingthe author?s rhetorical strategy in biomedical re-search abstracts.
Revue Fran?aise de LinguistiqueAppliqu?e 200(2):97-109.H.
Shatkay, F. Pan, A. Rzhetsky and W. J. Wilbur.2008.
Multi-dimensional classification of biomedi-cal text: toward automated, practical provision ofhigh-utility text to diverse users.
Bioinformatics24(18): 2086-2093.S.
Teufel, J. Carletta and M. Moens.
1999.
An annota-tion scheme for discourse-level argumentation inresearch articles.
In Proceedings of EACL 1999,pages  110-117.S.
Teufel, A. Siddharthan and C. Batchelor.
2009.Towards discipline-independent argumentativezoning: Evidence from chemistry and computa-tional linguistics.
In Proceedings of EMNLP-09,pages 1493-1502P.
Thompson, S. Iqbal, J. McNaught and S.Ananiadou.
2009.
Construction of an annotatedcorpus to support biomedical information extrac-tion.
BMC Bioinformatics 10: 349.P.
Thompson, G. Venturi, J. McNaught, S. Monte-magni and S. Ananiadou.
2008.
Categorising Mo-dality in Biomedical Texts.
In Proceedings of theLREC 2008 Workshop on Building and EvaluatingResources for Biomedical Text Mining, pages 27-34.V.
Vincze, G. Szarvas, R. Farkas, G. Mora and J.Csirik.
2008.
The BioScope corpus: biomedicaltexts annotated for uncertainty, negation and theirscopes.
BMC Bioinformatics 9(Suppl 11): S9.W.
J. Wilbur, A. Rzhetsky and H. Shatkay.
2006.New directions in biomedical text annotations:definitions, guidelines and corpus construction.BMC Bioinformatics 7: 356.77
