Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Second Louhi Workshop on Text and Data Mining of Health Documents, pages 84?89,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsMachine learning and features selection forsemi-automatic ICD-9-CM encodingJulia Medori C?drick FaironCENTALUniversit?
catholique de LouvainPlace Blaise Pascal, 11348 Louvain-la-neuveCENTALUniversit?
catholique de LouvainPlace Blaise Pascal, 11348 Louvain-la-neuvejulia.medori@uclouvain.be cedrick.fairon@uclouvain.beAbstractThis  paper  describes  the  architecture  of  anencoding system which aim is to be implementedas  a  coding  help  at  the  Cliniques  universtairesSaint-Luc,  a  hospital  in  Brussels.
This  paperfocuses  on  machine  learning  methods,  morespecifically, on the appropriate set of attributes tobe chosen in order to optimize the results of thesemethods.
A  series  of  four  experiments  wasconducted  on  a  baseline  method:  Na?ve  Bayeswith varying sets of attributes.
These experimentsshowed that a first step consisting in the extractionof   information  to  be  coded  (such  as  diseases,procedures,  aggravating factors, etc.)
is essential.It  also demonstrated the importance of stemmingfeatures.
Restraining  the  classes  to  categoriesresulted in a recall of  81.1 %.1 IntroductionThis  paper  describes  a  series  of  experimentscarried out within the framework of the CAPADISproject.1 This  project  is  the  product  of  acollaboration  between  the  UCL  (Universit?catholique  de  Louvain,  Belgium)  and  theCliniques  universitaires  Saint-Luc.
Saint-Luc  isone of the major hospitals in Belgium.
Each year,a team of file clerks processes more than 85,000patient  discharge summaries  and assigns  to  eachof them classification codes taken from the ICD-9-CM (International  Classification of Diseases ?1http://www.iwoib.irisnet.be/PRFB/t10/t10_medori_fr.htmlNinth Revision ?
Clinical modification ) (PMIC,2005).The  encoding  of  clinical  notes  (or  patientdischarge summaries) into nomenclatures such asthe International Classification of Diseases (ICD)is  a  time-consuming,  yet  necessary  task  inhospitals.
This essential process aims at evaluatingthe  costs  and  budget  in  each  medical  unit.
InBelgium,  these  data  are  sent  to  the  NationalHealth Department  so as to compute part  of thehospital?s funding.Our  aim  is  to  help  coders  with  their  ever-growing workload.
More and more patients?
staysneed to be encoded while the number  of  codersremains the same.
Our goal is therefore to developan semi-automatic encoding system where the roleof the coders would be to check and complete thecodes provided by the system.This  paper  focuses  on  machine  learningmethods as automatic encoding techniques.
Morespecifically,  it  focuses  on  the  appropriate  set  ofattributes  to  be  chosen  in  order  to  optimize  theresults of these methods.It  will  therefore  present  the  structure  of  thesystem and compare the results of different inputsto the machine learning approach.
Section 2 givesa  more  detailed  description  of  the  objectives  ofthis  project.
Section 3 gives  an overview of  thearchitecture of the system: first, the extraction partwill  be  described,  and  then,  the  automaticencoding stage will  be discussed.
Section 4 willfocus  on  the  machine  learning  experiments  that84were conducted.
The results will be presented anddiscussed in sections 5 and 6.2 ObjectivesSince  the  early  1990s  and  the  rise  of  thecomputational  linguistics  field,  many  scientistshave looked into the possible automation of  theencoding  process  (Ananiadou  and  McNaught,2006;  Ceusters  et  al.,  1994;  Deville  etal.,  1996;Friedman  et  al.,  2004;  Sager  et  al.,  1995;Zweigenbaum  et  al.,  1995).
Two  differentapproaches  distinguish  themselves  from  oneanother: a symbolic approach as in (Pereira et al,2006) and a statistical one.
Both methods scoredhighly  in  the  ?Computational  MedicineChallenge?
(CMC)  organized  by  the  ?NationalLibrary  of  Medicine?
in  2007  (Pestian  et  al.,2007):  among  the  best  three  systems,  twocombined a statistic and a symbolic approach andonly one relies only on a symbolic approach.
Mostsystems participating took a hybrid approach as in(Farkas and Szarvas, 2008).During ACL 2007, Aronson (2007) presentedwithin the framework of the same challenge, fourdifferent  approaches,  symbolic,  statistical  andhybrid.
His  conclusion  was  that  combiningdifferent  methods  and  approaches  performedbetter and were more stable than their contributingmethods.
Pakhomov (2006) describes Autocoder,an  automatic  encoding  system  implemented  atMayo  Clinic  that  combines  example-based rulesand  a  machine  learning  module  using  Na?veBayes.Within  the  scope  of  this  challenge,  only  alimited number of codes were involved.The objective of our work is to build such a tool tohelp  the  team  of  coders  from  the  CliniquesUniversitaires  Saint-Luc.
Three  facts  arenoteworthy:  the  clinical  notes  we  work  on  arewritten in French; they originate from all medicalunits; and all the codes from the ICD are used inthe  process  (around  15,000).
Most  studies  arelimited  on  at  least  one  of  these  criteria:  mostsystems  are  developed  on  English  as  morelanguage resources  are  available,  and they oftenfocus  on  specific  types  of  notes,  e.g.
the  CMCfocused on radiology reports.3 System descriptionThe system is divided into two units: an extractionunit  which  aims  at  marking  up  informationconsidered  as  relevant  in  the  encoding  process,and  an  encoding  unit  which,  from  extractedinformation generates a list of codes.Figure 1.
System structureExtraction: The system aims  at  reproducingthe work of human coders.
Coders first  read thetext, extract all the pieces of information that haveto  be  encoded,  and  ?translate?
information  intocodes of the ICD-9-CM.
The idea behind our toolis  to  recreate  this  process.
The  main  source  ofinformation coders  use  are  the patient  dischargesummaries written by doctors summarizing all thathappened   during  the  patient?s  stay:  diagnoses,procedures, as well as the aggravating factors, thepatient?s  medical  history,  etc.
These  files  areelectronic documents written in free text with nospecific structure.We developed a tool which aims at extractingthe necessary information from these texts: termsreferring to diseases but also anatomical terms, thedegree of seriousness or probability of a disease,aggravating factors such as smoking, allergies,  orother types of information that may influence thechoice of a code.There are many ways of referring to the samediagnosis  or  procedure,  we  therefore  needed  tobuild specialized dictionaries that would compriseas  many  of  these  wordings  as  possible.
ThePreprocessingDictionaries andlinguistic structuresMorphologicalprocessingContext analysisMatching listsCode selectionaccording tocontext andprobabilitiesICD-9-CMclinicalnotesclinical notes+ordered listof codesextractionencodingManual checkingMachine learningmodule85dictionaries  of  diseases  and  procedures   weremainly built  automatically using the  UMLS andthe  classifications  in  French it  comprises.
Otherspecialized  dictionaries  (anatomical  terms,medical  departments,  medications,  etc.)
weredeveloped  from  existing  lists.
These  then  weregradually completed manually as the developmentof the extraction tool went on.However,  the  plain  detection  of  terms  is  notsufficient.
It  is  important  to  detect  in  whichcontext  these  terms  occur.
For  instance,  adiagnosis that is negated will not be encoded.
Theidentification  of  contexts  required  the  use  offinite-state  automata  and  transducers.
Thesetransducers  are  represented  by  graphs  thatdescribe  the  linguistic  structures  indicatingspecific contexts.
These graphs were hand craftedusing  the  UNITEX  software  tool2 (Paumier,2003).
An example of a graph matching fracturesand sprains is presented in figure 2.3 Each path ofthe  graph  describes  a  recognized  linguisticstructure.Graphs were also used to broaden the scope ofthe  terms  detected by dictionaries.
For  instance,not only do diseases need to be extracted but, tocode,  one also needs to know which part  of thebody is affected.Certain  types  of  diagnoses  also  have  to  bedescribed via graphs such as smoking as there aremany ways in which to say that someone smokesor not.
Ex: ?he smokes 3 cigarettes a day.?
?Heused to smoke.?
?Occasionally smokes.?
?Heavysmoker.?
?Does not smoke.
?Figure 2.
Example of a UNITEX graph matchingpatterns such as fractures and sprains.2 http://www-igm.univ-mlv.fr/~unitex/3 The grey boxes indicate calls to other graphs.
Here,d_localisation is a graph matching anatomical terms.Our  aim  was  to  develop  a  wide-coveragesystem.
We  therefore  focused  mainly  on  theGeneral  Internal  Medicine  service  in  order  todevelop the grammars and dictionaries.
It is a verydiverse department where physicians have to faceall kinds of diseases.The graphs and dictionaries on which is basedour extraction system were built  during the firstphase of the project.
A more detailed descriptionand  evaluation  of  the  extraction  process  can  befound in (Medori, 2008).Encoding: As  was  said  above,  two  mainapproaches to the encoding problem coexist:  thesymbolic  approach  and  the  statistical  approach.Both  have  their  benefits  and  drawbacks.
Thesymbolic approach is a time-consuming approachas  it  involves  describing  linguistic  rules  linkingtext to diseases.
The statistical  approach has theadvantage of being fast to compute but the needfor a large amount of data often hampers the useof  these  methods.
However,  both  methods  givereliable results, and a combination of both is theoption generally favored.
In our context, we choseto combine both approaches as a large corpus ofclinical notes is at our disposal.Saint-Luc  provided  us  with  a  corpus  of166,670  clinical  notes.
The  codes  that  wereassigned  to  them  by  the  coders  were  alsoprovided.
This  corpus  gives  us  the  chance  todevelop and test statistical methods in a ?real life?experiment.4However, whatever the results, we will need tocombine  these  methods  with  linguistic  rules.There are two main reasons for this : in the nearfuture, we will have to face the problem of havingto switch to another classification.
The change toICD-10-CM is  planned  for  2015.
Therefore,  atthat time, we will not have enough learning data tobe able to generate the list of codes in a statisticalmanner.
The second reason is that there are codesthat  are seldom assigned and for which we willnot have enough occurrences in our corpus to beable to extract them statistically.This paper focuses on the statistical tests thatwere conducted on our corpus.
An insight into asymbolic  method  using  the  matching  ofmorphemes can be found in (Medori, 2008).4 In this paper, the experiments were conducted on a smallercorpus.
At  a  later  stage,  the  methods  chosen  for  the  finalsystem will need to be trained on the full corpus.864 ExperimentAs a first encoding experiment, we chose to focuson  a  baseline  machine  learning  method:  Na?veBayes.
This  method  has  often  been  used  andproves to be robust.To conduct this experiment, we used Weka, adata mining software5 developed at the Universityof Waikato.
For more information on this tool, see(Witten, 2004).In order to test this method we took a sub-setof 19,994 discharge summaries from the GeneralInternal Medicine department.
In order to test hownecessary the extraction step is, we chose the textsfrom the department on which the development ofthe extraction rules were based.These  notes  were  assigned  102,855  codeswhich makes up 4,039 distinct codes.This corpus was then divided into two subsets:90% of  the  19,994 patient  discharge  summarieswere used as the training corpus and 10% as thetest set.As with any machine learning method, enoughdata for each class is needed in the training set inorder to be able to classify correctly.
Therefore,we  built  a  classifier  for  each  code  that  wasmanually assigned at least 6 times in our corpus.This  resulted  in  1,497  classifiers,  which  meansthat  we did not  have enough data  to  be able  toassign 2,542 codes which make up 5% of all theassigned codes.Four experiments were conducted:Experiment  1.
In  our  first  experiment,  theselected  attributes  were  the  terms  that  werehighlighted  as  diagnoses  by  the  extraction  step.The  diagnoses  identified  in  a  negative  contextwere  removed  from  the  features  list.
Theseresulting  list  of  extracted  terms  went  through  anormalization  process:  accents  and  stop  wordswere removed; words were decapitalized.Experiment 2.
The second experiment aimedat proving the relevance of the stemming of theseterms.
The  attributes  in  this  experiment  weretherefore  the  terms  that  were  extracted,  thennormalized  and  stemmed  using  SnowballStemmer6 which  is  an  implementation  of  thePorter algorithm.Experiment  3.
In  this  third  experiment,  wewanted to  check  the  relevance of  the  extraction5 http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/~ml/weka/6 http://snowball.tartarus.org/process (see experiments 1 and 2).
Therefore, theattributes comprised all the words contained in theclinical notes apart from stop words.
The wordswere stemmed in the same way as the extractedterms in experiment 2.Experiment 4.
In all the previous experiments,the classes to be assigned consisted in codes.
Inthis experiment, classes are reduced to categoriesof codes: represented by the first three digits of acode.
The attributes are the same as in experiment1: extracted terms (non-stemmed).
As the systemis  designed  as  a  coding  help  i.e.
its  aim  is  togenerate  a list  of  suggested codes,  and not  as  afully  automated  encoding  system,  one  couldimagine  listing  categories  of  codes  instead  ofcodes themselves and then let the coders look upin  the  hierarchy for  the  appropriate  code withinthe selected category.At the end of each experiment, we end up witha list of the 1,497 codes from ICD-9-CM orderedby their Na?ve Bayes score for each letter.The measure that  is  most  interesting here is  therecall.
The  list  of  suggested  codes  needs  tocomprise most of the codes the coder will need sothat he/she does not have to go elsewhere to findthe  appropriate  code.
Therefore,  we  kept  threemeasures of recall.
It is important to keep the listof  codes  to  be  presented  to  the  user  short  andmanageable.
Larkey  and  Croft  (1995)  used  thesame measures and set the limit number of codesto  20.
This  choice  is  arbitrary but  seems  like  asensible limit.
In Saint-Luc, the maximum numberof  codes  a  file  clerk  can  assign  to  a  patientdischarge summary is 26 (the principal diagnosisis assigned the letter A and all the other codes areordered  according  to  the  other  letters  of  thealphabet).
However,  few  reports  are  actuallyassigned 26 codes (15 out of 19,994).
The averagenumber of codes assigned by the file clerks in ourset of 19,994 discharge summaries is 6.2.The  three  measures  of  recall  are Recall10,Recall15 and Recall20 which are the measures ofmicro averaged recall if we show the first 10, 15and 20 most likely codes respectively.77 It should be noted that we keep in the list of suggested codesall the codes that tie last with the 10th, 15th and 20th positionrespectively.875 ResultsThe results of the experiments described above aredetailed in figure 3.Rec10 Rec15 Rec201(att: extracted terms) 50.4 56.4 60.52 (att: stemmedextracted terms) 56.1 64.1 69.13 (att: all words,stemmed) 39.1 40.3 41.44 (att: extracted termsclasses : categories) 64.0 75.1 81.1Figure 3.
Recall for each experiment (in %)Experiment  1.
From the results of  this baselineexperiment,  considering  the  extracted  terms  andretaining the 20 most likely codes according to theNa?ve Bayesian statistics,  more than 60% of thecodes manually assigned to the test notes can befound in this list.Experiment 2.
The stemming of the extractedterms increased the recall by 8.6%.Experiment 3.
If considering all the words asattributes,  the  recall  when  retaining  20  possiblecandidates  is  around 40% while  when attributesare  selected  through  the  extraction  process,  therecall  increases  to  69% which is  an  increase  ofabout 28%.
This result proves that the extractionprocess  is  an  essential  step  in  the  system  andclearly improves the performance of the statisticalencoding unit.Experiment  4.
When  classes  are  limited  tocategories,   Recall20  jumps  to  81.1% which  is20.6%  more  than  in  experiment  1  which  wasconducted  with  the  same  attributes  but  whereclasses  were  codes.
This  supports  our  idea  thatshowing a list of categories instead of codes couldbe  an  interesting  alternative  for  coders:  theywould be shown more codes while keeping the listmanageable, and then could browse easily into thesub-structure of the classification.6 DiscussionThe choice of attributes is important when testingmachine  learning methods.
In  the  framework  ofthe  development  of  an  encoding  system,  weproved that a first step consisting in selecting theterms  carrying  the  information  that  needs  to  beencoded is essential.
We also showed that the useof a simple stemming algorithm clearly improvesthe performance of the method.In the last experiment, classifying the clinicalnotes by categories of codes resulted in a recall of81.1%.
This reinforces our opinion that, to makesure that all the needed codes are present for thecoder,  we  could  list  categories  and  let  him/herbrowse through the codes from there.It  is important to put these results in light ofwhere the codes originate.
Most of the informationthat  needs  to  be  encoded  is  present  in  theseclinical  notes.
However,  even though efforts  aremade in order for this to change, many physiciansstill do not compile all the information into thesenotes.
Coders therefore still have to look up intothe whole patient record in order to find additionalcodes.
The  proportion  of  codes  that  cannot  beinferred from the clinical notes can be very high.A study conducted  by Sabine  Regout,  a  patientdischarge summary specialist in Saint-Luc, on 250clinical notes from 25 medical units, showed thatin  most  departments,  15  to  20%  of  the  codesassigned by the clerks cannot be inferred from thenotes.
This proportion can increase up to 80% insome surgery departments.
This evaluation provesthat  without  a  change  of  mind-set  from  thephysicians,  our  system  can  only  aim  to  be  acoding  help  for  file  clerks.
Analyzing  all  thedifferent types of documents contained in patientrecords would be a difficult task as they comprisea  variety  of  documents  with  different  structuresand formats,  and some of them are hand-writtendocuments.
For our experiments, this also meansthat the maximal recall value we will be able toget is around 80%.In  these  experiments,  we  were  not  able  tocheck the inter-annotator agreement but we mustkeep  in  mind  that,  as  in  any  classification  taskwhere  humans  set  the  gold-standard,  one  mustexpect some degree of errors and variation in thecoding.Another  observation  influences  the  maximalnumber of codes we will be able to retrieve is thatwe built classifiers for all the codes for which wehad enough data.
This lead to the building of 1497classifiers.
This  represents  95% of  all  the codesassigned  to  our  test  notes.
This  decreases  ourmaximal recall value by 5%.The  codes  that  are  seldom  assigned  willtherefore never show up in our list  of suggestedcodes.
This is rather problematic and other non-88statistical methods will be needed to make up forthis.7 Future workIn the light of these results, the next step will be toconduct  an  experiment  on  categories  as  classesusing stemmed  extracted terms  as  features.
Thisshould improve further the 81.1% recall from theresults of experiment 4.These experiments were conducted in order toselect the right features to be used as attributes forour  machine  learning  module.
We  chose  Na?veBayes  as  a  baseline  method.
However,  othermethods  have  been  tested  in  previous  works(Larkey and Croft, 1995) and have proved to givegood results as well, such as k-nearest neighborsor Support Vector Machines.We saw, at the end of section 6, that symbolicmethods need to be developed in order to assistmachine  learning  methods.
Machine  learningtechniques  have  their  limitations:  they  cannotassign codes for which they did not have enoughdata,  and they cannot  face the change to a  newnomenclature.
Therefore,  in  the  near  future  wewill  have  to  develop  a  symbolic  modulecomprising a series of linguistic rules in order todo the matching on all codes.
A prototype basedon the matching of morphemes has already beendeveloped  but  will  need  to  be  experimentedfurther.The results  of  the  experiments  we conductedon  a  machine  learning  method  were  promising.Now, combining these two different approaches isthe next challenging task in our project.AcknowledgementsThe  CAPADIS  project  was  funded  by  thegovernment  of  the  Brussels-Capital  Region(Institute  for  the  encouragement  ofScientific Research  and  Innovation  of  Brussels)within  the  framework  of  the  "Prospectiveresearch for Brussels 2006" program.
I would alsolike  to  thank  Beno?t  Debande,  Claire  Beguin,Sabine Regout and the Saint-Luc hospital team ofcoders.ReferencesAnaniadou S., McNaught J.: Introduction to Text Mining inBiology.
In  Ananiadou  S.,  McNaught  J.
(eds.)
TextMining  for  Biology  and  Biomedicine,  pp  1--12,  ArtechHouse Books (2006).Aronson  A.  R.:  MetaMap:  Mapping  Text  to  the  UMLSMetathesaurus (2006).Ceusters  W.,  Michel  C.,  Penson  D.,  Mauclet  E.:  Semi-automated encoding of diagnoses and medical procedurescombining ICD-9-CM with computational-linguistic tools.Ann Med Milit Belg;8(2):53?58 (1994).Deville G., Herbigniaux E., Mousel P., Thienpont G., W?ryM.
: ANTHEM: Advanced Natural Language Interface forMultilingual Text Generation in Healthcare (1996).Farkas R., Szarvas G. Automatic construction of rule-basedICD-9-CM  coding  systems?,  BMC  Bioinformatics,  9(2008).Friedman  C.,  Shagina  L.,  Lussier  Y.A.,  Hripcsak  G.:Automated  encoding  of  clinical  documents  based  onnatural  language  processing.
J  Am Med  Inform Assoc.2004 Sep-Oct;11(5):392--402.
Epub 2004 Jun 7 (2004).Larkey L. S, Croft W. B.
Automatic assignment of icd9 codesto  discharge  summaries.
Technical  report,  University  ofMassachusetts at Amherst, Amherst, MA (1995).Medori J.
From Free Text to ICD: Development of a CodingHelp, In: Proceedings of Louhi 08, Turku, 3-4 sept 2008(2008).Pakhomov S. V. S., Buntrock J. D., Chute C. G.: Automatingthe Assignment of Diagnosis Codes to Patient EncountersUsing Example-based and Machine Learning Techniques(2006).Paumier S.  De la reconnaissance de formes linguistiques ?l'analyse syntaxique.
PhD thesis.
Universit?
de Marne-la-Vall?e (2003).Practice  Management  Information  Corporation.
ICD-9-CMHospital  Edition, International Classification of Diseases9th  Revision,  Clinical  Modification  (Color-Coded,Volumes 1-3, Thumb-Indexed) (2005).Pereira S., N?v?ol A., Massari P., Joubert M., Darmoni S.J.
:Construction  of  a  semi-automated  ICD-10  coding  helpsystem to optimize medical and economic coding.
Proc.MIE.
(2006).Pestian J. P., Brew C., Matykiewicz P.M., Hovermale D.J.,Johnson  N.,  Cohen  K.B.,  Duch  W.:  A  shared  taskinvolving  multi-label  classification  of  clinical  free  text.Proceedings of ACL BioNLP; 2007 Jun; Prague (2007).Sager  N.,  Lyman M.,  Nh?n N.,  Tick L.:  Medical languageprocessing: Applications to patient data representation andautomatic encoding.
Methods of Information in Medicine,(34):140 -- 146 (1995).Witten  I.H.,  Frank  E.  Data  Mining:  Practical  MachineLearning Tools and Techniques.
San Francisco: MorganKaufmann Publishers.
2nd edition.
560  pp.
ISBN 0-12-088407-0 (2005).Zweigenbaum P. and Consortium MENELAS: MENELAS:coding  and  information  retrieval  from natural  languagepatient discharge summaries.
In Laires M. F., Ladeira M.J.,  Christensen  J.  P.,  (eds.
),  Advances  in  HealthTelematics,  pages  82-89.
IOS  Press,  Amsterdam,  1995.MENELAS Final Edited Progress Report (1995).89
