Treebank of Chinese Bible TranslationsAndi WuGrapeCity Inc.andi.wu@grapecity.comAbstractThis paper reports on a treebankingproject where eight different modernChinese translations of the Bible aresyntactically analyzed.
The trees arecreated through dynamic treebankingwhich uses a parser to produce thetrees.
The trees have been goingthrough manual checking, but correc-tions are made not by editing the treefiles but by re-generating the trees withan updated grammar and dictionary.The accuracy of the treebank is highdue to the fact that the grammar anddictionary are optimized for this specif-ic domain.
The tree structures essen-tially follow the guidelines of the PennChinese Treebank.
The total numberof characters covered by the treebank is7,872,420 characters.
The data hasbeen used in Bible translation and Bi-ble search.
It should also prove usefulin the computational study of the Chi-nese language in general.1 IntroductionSince the publication of the Chinese UnionVersion (CUV???)
in 1919, the Biblehas been re-translated into Chinese againand again in the last 91 years.
The transla-tions were done in different time periodsand thus reflect the changes in the Chineselanguage in the last century.
They alsorepresent different styles of Chinese writ-ing, ranging over narration, exposition andpoetry.
Due to the diversity of the transla-tors?
backgrounds, some versions followthe language standards of mainland China,while other have more Taiwan or HongKong flavor.
But they have one thing incommon: they were all done very profes-sionally, with great care put into every sen-tence.
Therefore the sentences are usuallywell-formed.
All this makes the Chinesetranslations of the Bible a high-quality andwell-balanced corpus of the Chinese lan-guage.To study the linguistic features of this text cor-pus, we have been analyzing its syntacticstructures with a Chinese parser in the last fewyears.
The result is a grammar that covers allthe syntactic structures in this domain and adictionary that contains all the words in thistext corpus.
A lot of effort has also been putinto tree-pruning and tree selection so that thebad trees can be filtered out.
Therefore we areable to parse most of the sentences in this cor-pus correctly and produce a complete treebankof all the Chinese translations.The value of such a treebank in the study andsearch of the Bible is obvious.
But it shouldalso be a valuable resource for computationallinguistic research outside the Bible domain.After all, it is a good representation of the syn-tactic structures of Chinese.2 The Data SetThe text corpus for the treebank includes eightdifferent versions of Chinese translations ofthe Bible, both the Old Testament and the NewTestament.
They are listed below inchronological order with their Chinese names,abbreviations, and years of publication: Chinese Union Version(???
CUV 1919) Lv Zhenzhong Version(?????
LZZ 1946) Sigao Bible(????
SGB 1968 ) Today?s Chinese Version(??????
TCV 1979) Recovery Version(???
RCV 1987) New Chinese Version(???
NCV 1992) Easy-to-Read Version(?????
ERV 2005) Chinese Standard Bible(??????
CSB 2008)All these versions are in vernacular Chinese(???)
rather than classical Chinese (???
), with CUV representing ?early vernacular?
( ?
?
?
?
? )
and the later versionsrepresenting contemporary Chinese.
The textsare all in simplified Chinese.
Thosetranslations which were published intraditional Chinese were converted tosimplified Chinese.
For a linguisticcomparison of those different versions, see Wuet al(2009).In terms of literary genre, more than 50% ofthe Bible is narration, about 15% poetry, 10%exposition, and the rest a mixture of narrative,prosaic and poetic writing.
The averagenumber of characters in a single version isclose to one million and the total number ofcharacters of these eight versions is 7,672,420.Each book in the Bible consists of a number ofchapters which in turn consist of a number ofverses.
A verse often corresponds to a sen-tence, but it may be composed of more thanone sentence.
On the other hand, some sen-tences may span multiple verses.
To avoid thecontroversy in sentence segmentation, we pre-served the verse structure, with one tree foreach verse.
The issues involved in this deci-sion will be discussed later.3 Linguistic IssuesIn designing the tree structures, we essentiallyfollowed the Penn Chinese Treebank (PCTB)Guidelines (Xia 2000, Xue & Xia 2000) insegmentation, part-of-speech tagging andbracketing.
The tag set conforms to this stan-dard completely while the segmentation andbracketing have some exceptions.In segmentation, we provide word-internalstructures in cases where there can be varia-tions in the granularity of segmentation.
Forexample, a verb-complement structure such as??
is represented asso that it can be treated either as a single wordor as two individual words according to theuser?s needs.
A noun-suffix structure such as????
is represented asto accommodate the need of segmenting it intoeither a single word or two separate words.Likewise, a compound word like ??
isrepresented asto account for the fact that it can also be ana-lyzed as two words.
This practice is applied toall the morphologically derived words dis-cussed in Wu (2003), which include all lin-guistic units that function as single words syn-tactically but lexically contains two or morewords.
The nodes for such units all have (1)an attribute that specifies the word type (e.g.Noun-Suffix, Verb-Result, etc.)
and (2) thesub-units that make up the whole word.
Theuser can use the word type and the layeredstructures to take different cuts of the trees toget the segmentation they desire.In bracketing, we follow the guidelines ofPenn Chinese treebank, but we simplified thesentence structure by omitting the CP and IPnodes.
Instead, we use VP for any verbal unit,whether it is a complete sentence or not.
Hereis an example where the tree is basically a pro-jection of the verb, with all other elements be-ing the arguments or adjuncts of the VP:There are two reasons for doing this.
First ofall, we choose not to represent movement rela-tionships with traces and empty categorieswhich are not theory-neutral.
They add com-plexities to automatic parsing, making it slow-er and more prone to errors.
Secondly, as wementioned earlier, the linguistic units we parseare verses which are not always a sentencewith an IP and a CP.
Therefore we have toremain flexible and be able to handle multiplesentences, partial sentences, or any fragmentsof a sentence.
The use of VP as the maximalproject enables us to be consistent across dif-ferent chunks.
Here is a verse with two sen-tences:Notice that both sentences are analyzed as VPsand the punctuation marks are left out on theirown.
Here is a verse with a partial sentence:This verse contains a PP and a VP.
Since it isnot always possible to get a complete sentencewithin a verse, we aim at ?maximal parses?instead of complete parses, doing as much aswe can be sure of and leaving the rest for fu-ture processing.
To avoid the clause-level am-biguities as to how a clause is related to anoth-er, we also choose to leave the clausal relationsunspecified.
Therefore, we can say that thebiggest linguistic units in our trees are clausesrather than sentences.
In cases where versesconsist of noun phrases or prepositional phras-es, the top units we get can be NPs or PPs.
Inshort, the structures are very flexible and par-tial analysis is accepted where complete analy-sis is not available.While the syntactic structure in this treebank isunderspecified compared to the Penn ChineseTreebank, the lexical information contained inthe trees are considerably richer.
The trees arecoded in XML where each node is a complexattribute-value matrix.
The trees we have seenabove are visualizations of the XML in a treeviewer where we can also view the attributesof each node in a tooltip, as shown below:Here, the attributes tell us among other thingsthat (1) this node is formed by the rule ?DNP-NP?, (2) the head of this phrase is its secondchild (position is 0-based), (3) there is nocoordination in this phrase, (4) this is not alocation phrase, (5) this is not a time phrase, (6)the NP is a human being, and (7) the headnoun can take any of those measure words (??
): ???????????
and ?.
Thereare many other attributes and a filter is appliedto determine which attributes will show upwhen the XML is generated.4 Computational IssuesAs we have mentioned above, the trees aregenerated automatically by a Chinese parser.It is well-known that the state-of?the-art natu-ral language parsers are not yet able to producesyntactic analysis that is 100% correct.
As aresult, the automatically generated trees con-tain errors and manual checking is necessary.The question is what we should do when errorsare found.The approach adopted by most treebankingprojects is manual correction which involvesediting the tree files.
Once the trees have beenmodified by hand, the treebank becomes static.Any improvement or update on the treebankwill require manual work from then on andautomatic parsing is out of the picture.
Thishas several disadvantages.
First of all, it isvery labor-intensive and not everyone can af-ford to do it.
Secondly, the corrections areusually token-based rather than type-based,which requires repetitions of the same correc-tion and opens doors to inconsistency.
Finally,this approach is not feasible with trees withcomplex feature structures where manual edit-ing is difficult if not impossible.To avoid these problems, we adopted the ap-proach of dynamic treebanking (Oepen et al2002) where corrections/updates are not madein the tree files but in the grammar and dictio-nary that is used to generate the trees.
Insteadof fixing the trees themselves, we improve thetree-generator and make it produce the correcttrees.
Every error found the trees can be tracedback to some problem in the grammar rules,dictionary entries, or the tree selection process.Once a ?bug?
is resolved, all problems of thesame kind will be resolved throughout thewhole treebank.
In this approach, we neverhave to maintain a static set of trees.
We cangenerate the trees at any time with any kind ofcustomization based on users?
requirement.Dynamic treebanking requires a high-accuracysyntactic parser which is not easy to build.
AChinese parser has the additional challenge ofword segmentation and name entity recogni-tion.
These problems become more managea-ble once the texts to be parsed are narroweddown to a specific domain, in our case the do-main of Biblical texts.The dictionary used by our parser is based onthe Grammatical Knowledge Base of Contem-porary Chinese (GKBCC) licensed from Bei-jing University.
It is a wide-coverage, feature-rich dictionary containing more than 80,000words.
On top of that, we added all the wordsin the eight translations, including all the prop-er names, which are not in the GKBCC.
Thetotal vocabulary is about 110,000 words.Since we follow the PCTB guidelines in oursyntactic analysis, the grammatical categoriesof GKBCC were converted to the PCTB POStags.With all the words in the dictionary, whicheliminates the OOV problem, the only problemleft in word segmentation is the resolution ofcombinational ambiguities and overlappingambiguities.
We resolve these ambiguities inthe parsing process rather than use a separateword segmenter, because most wrong segmen-tations can be ruled out in the course of syntac-tic analysis (Wu and Jiang 1998).Our grammar is in the HPSG framework.
Inaddition to feature-rich lexical projections, italso bases its grammatical decisions on thewords in the preceding and following contexts.Multiple trees are generated and sorted accord-ing to structural properties.
The treebank con-tains the best parse of each verse by default,but it can also provide the top N trees.
Thegrammar is not intended to be domain-specific.Almost all the rules there apply to other do-mains as well.
But the grammar is ?domain-complete?
in the sense that all the grammaticalphenomena that occur in this domain are cov-ered.The developers of the treebank only look at thetop tree of each verse.
If it is found to be in-correct, they can fix it by (1) refining the con-ditions of the grammar rules, (2) correcting oradding attribute values in the lexicon, or (3)fine-tuning tree ranking and tree selection.
Forphrases which occur frequently in the text orphrases which are hard to analyze, we storetheir correct analysis in a database so that theycan be looked up just like a dictionary entry.These ?pre-generated?
chunks are guaranteedto have the correct analysis and they greatlyreduce the complexity of sentence analysis.The same grammar and dictionary are used toparse the eight different versions.
The devel-opment work is mainly based on CSB.
There-fore the trees of the CSB text have higher ac-curacy than those of other versions.
However,due to the fact that all the eight versions aretranslations of the same source text, they sharea large number of common phrases.
As ourdaily regression tests show, most fixes made inCSB also benefit the analysis of other versions.5 EvaluationDue to the optimization of the grammar anddictionary for the Bible domain, the accuracyof this Chinese parser is much higher than anyother general-purpose Chinese parsers whenthe texts to be parsed are Chinese Bible texts.Therefore the accuracy of the trees is higherthan any other automatically generated trees.Unfortunately, there is not an existing treebankof Chinese Bible translations that can be usedas a gold standard for automatic evaluation.We can only examine the quality through ma-nual inspection.
However, there does exist asegmented text of the CUV translation.1  Usingthis text as the gold standard is ideal becausethe development data for our system is CSBrather than CUV or other versions.As we have mentioned above, the segmenta-tion from the trees can be customized by tak-ing different cuts in cases where word-internalstructures are available.
In order to make oursegmentation match the existing CUV segmen-tation as closely as possible, we studied theCUV segments and made a decision for eachtype of words.
For example, in a verb-complement construction where both the verband the directional/resultative complement aresingle characters, the construction will betreated as a single word.We evaluated the segmentation of our CUVtrees with the scoring script used in the first1 The segmented CUV text was provided by AsiaBible Society.international Chinese segmentation bakeoff(Sproat & Emerson 2003).
Here are the results:Recall:  99.844%Precision: 99.826%F-Score: 99.845%We don't show the OOV numbers as they arenot relevant here, because all the words havebeen exhaustively listed in our dictionary.Of a total of 31151 verses in the Bible, 30568verses (98.13%) do not contain a single error(whole verses segmented correctly).Of course, segmentation accuracy does notimply parsing accuracy, though wrong seg-mentation necessarily implies a wrong parse.Since we do not have a separate word segmen-ter and segmentation is an output of the pars-ing process, the high segmentation accuracydoes serve as a reflection of the quality of thetrees.
There would be many more segmenta-tion errors if the trees had many errors.6 Use of the TreebankThe treebank has been used in the area of Bibletranslation and Bible search.
In Bible transla-tion, the trees are aligned to the trees of theoriginal Hebrew and Greek texts2.
By examin-ing the correspondences between the Chinesetrees and the Hebrew/Greek trees, one is ableto measure how faithful each translation is tothe original.
In Bible search, the trees makes itpossible to use more intelligent queries basednot only on words but on syntactic relationsbetween words as well.An obvious use of the treebank is to train astatistical parser.
Though the domain speci-2 The Hebrew and Greek trees were also providedby Asia Bible Society.ficity of the treebank makes it less likely tobuild from it a good lexicalized statistical pars-er that can be used in the general domain, wecan still extract a lot of non-lexical syntacticinformation from it.
It can fill many of thegaps in the parsers that are built from othertreebanks which consist mainly of news ar-ticles.A special feature of this treebank is that it isbuilt from a number of parallel texts -- differ-ent Chinese translations of the same verses.By aligning the parallel trees (ideally throughthe original Hebrew and Greek trees as pivots),we can acquire a knowledge base of Chinesesynonyms and paraphrases.
Presumably, thedifferent Chinese subtrees corresponding to thesame Hebrew/Greek subtree are supposed toconvey the same meaning.
The words andphrases covered by those subtrees thereforerepresent Chinese expressions that are syn-onymous.
A knowledge base of this kind canbe a valuable addition to the lexical study ofChinese.7 SummaryWe presented a Chinese treebank of parallelBible translations.
The treebank is builtthrough dynamic treebanking where the treesare automatically generated by a Chinese pars-er optimized for parsing Biblical texts.
Thetrees can serve as a useful resource for differ-ent language projects.ReferencesSproat, Richard and Thomas Emerson.
2003.
TheFirst International Chinese Segmentation Ba-keoff.
In Proceedings of the Second SIGHANWorkshop on Chinese Language Processing, Ju-ly 11-12, Sapporo, Japan.Wu, Andi, J. and Z. Jiang, 1998.
Word segmenta-tion in sentence analysis, in Proceedings of 1998International Conference on Chinese InformationProcessing, pp.
46--51.
169--180, Beijing, China.Wu, Andi.
2003.
Customizable Segmentation ofMorphological Derived Words in Chinese.
In In-ternational Journal of Computational Linguisticsand Chinese Language Processing, 8(1):1-27.Wu, And, Arron Ma, Dong Wang.
2009.
Fidelityand Readablity ?
a quanatative comparison ofChinese translations of the New Testament.Proceedings of the Conference on ?Interpretationof Biblical Texts in Chinese Contexts?, SichuanUniveristy, December 2009.Xia, Fei.
2000.
Segmentation Guidelines for thePenn Chinese Treebank (3.0).
Technical Report,University of Pennsylvania.Xia, Fei.
2000.
The Part-Of-Speech Tagging Guide-lines for the Penn Chinese Treebank (3.0).Technical Report, University of Pennsylvania.Xue, Nianwen and Fei Xia.
2000.
The BracketingGuidelines for the Penn Chinese Treebank (3.0).Technical Report, University of Pennsylvania.Oepen, Stephan, Dan Flickinger, Kristina Toutano-va, Christoper D. Manning.
2002.
LinGO Red-woods: A Rich and Dynamic Treebank forHPSG In Proceedings of The First Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT2002),Sozopol, Bulgaria.
