Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Young Investigators Workshop on Computational Approaches to Languages of the Americas,pages 24?31, Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Common Sense to generate culturally contextualizedMachine TranslationHelena de Medeiros Caseli Bruno Akio SugiyamaDepartment of Computer Science (DC)Federal University of Sa?o Carlos (UFSCar)Rod.
Washington Lu?
?s, km 235 ?
CP 676CEP 13565-905, Sa?o Carlos, SP, Brazil{helenacaseli,bruno sugiyama,junia}@dc.ufscar.brJunia Coutinho AnacletoAbstractThis paper reports an ongoing work inapplying Common Sense knowledge toMachine Translation aiming at generatingmore culturally contextualized translations.Common Sense can be defined as theknowledge shared by a group of people ina given time, space and culture; and thisknowledge, here, is represented by a semanticnetwork called ConceptNet.
MachineTranslation, in turn, is the automatic processof generating an equivalent translated versionof a source sentence.
In this work we intendto use the knowledge represented in twoConceptNets, one in Brazilian Portuguese andanother in English, to fix/filter translationsbuilt automatically.
So, this paper presentsthe initial ideas of our work, the steps takenso far as well as some opportunities forcollaboration.1 IntroductionIn this paper we describe an ongoing work con-cerning the studies in gathering and using CommonSense knowledge and building Machine Translationapplications.
Common Sense (CS) can be definedas the knowledge shared by a group of people in agiven time, space and culture.1 Machine Translation(MT), in turn, is the application of computerprograms to generate a translated equivalent versionof a source text, in a target language.1This definition of Common Sense is adopted by Open MindCommon Sense (OMCS) and Brazilian Open Mind CommonSense (OMCS-Br) projects and is only one of the severalpossible definitions.MT is one of the oldest and most importantareas of Natural Language Processing (NLP) /Computational Linguistics (CL).2 From its begin-nings we have witnessed some changes in theproposed MT paradigms ranging from the basiclevel ?in which MT is performed by just replacingwords in a source language by words in a targetlanguage?
to more sophisticated ones ?which relyon manually created translation rules (Rule-basedMachine Translation) or automatically generatedstatistical models (Statistical Machine Translation,SMT).
Nowadays, the majority of the researches hasbeing centered around the phrase-based statisticalMT (PB-SMT) approach ?such as (Koehn etal., 2003) and (Och and Ney, 2004).
PB-SMTis considered the state-of-the-art according to theautomatic evaluation measures BLEU (Papineni etal., 2002) and NIST (Doddington, 2002)3.Although PB-SMT models have achieved thestate-of-the-art translation quality, there are strongevidences that these models will not be able togo further without more linguistically motivatedfeatures, as stated by Tinsley and Way (2009).
Thisis already being illustrated by the recent shift ofresearches towards linguistically enriched models as(Koehn and Hoang, 2007) and (Tinsley and Way,2009) among others.Following the same idea of these most recentresearches, here we are also interested in seeing2In this paper we will use the terms NLP and CLinterchangeably since this is the assumption adopted in Brazil.3BLEU and NIST are two automatic measures widelyapplied to evaluate the target MT output sentence regarding oneour more reference sentences.24how it is possible to improve MT performancebased on more linguistically motivated features.In our case, we intend to investigate how toapply Common Sense knowledge to generate moreculturally contextualized automatic translations.For example, considering the translation ofslangs4 as in the English sentence ?Jump, youchicken!?5.
In this case, the word ?chicken?
donot mean ?a kind of bird?
but ?a coward?
or ?aperson who is not brave?.
However, its translationto Portuguese (?galinha?)
can also be applied as aslang with a completely different meaning.
In thePortuguese language, the slang ?galinha?
means amen with a lot of girlfriends.
Although the problemstated in the given example could also be fixed bysome dictionary entries, CS knowledge is the kindof information that varies a lot and frequently cannot be found in traditional dictionaries.
Thus, webelieve that the CS knowledge derived from theOMCS projects is an alternative way to cope withthese translation problems.Before presenting our ideas, section 2 describessome related work on SMT and more recentlinguistically motivated empirical MT.
Commonsense and the Open Mind Common Sense projectare the subjects of sections 3.
Section 4 brings someof our ideas on how to apply the common senseknowledge in the automatic translation from/toBrazilian Portuguese and to/from English.
Afterpresenting the current scenario of our ongoing work,we point out some opportunities for collaboration insection 5.
Finally, section 6 finishes this paper withinsights about the next steps of our research.2 Machine TranslationMachine Translation (MT) has about 70 years ofhistory and lot of its recent achievements are directlyrelated to the advances in computer science, whichenable almost everyone to have access and useMT tools.
Some of these tools were traditionallydeveloped following the rule-based approach (e.g.,4Slangs are typically cultural because they characterize themode of a group?s speech in a given space and time.5Sentence extracted from Cambridge Advanced Learner?sDictionary: http://dictionary.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=13018&dict=CALD.Systran6 and Apertium7) but the statistical approachis now being widely applied at least in part (e.g.,Google8) (Cancedda et al, 2009).The SMT was born in the late 1980s as an effort ofresearchers from IBM (Brown et al, 1990).
In thosedays, SMT was performed based on two models:a word-based translation model and a languagemodel.
While the first model is concerned withthe production of target equivalent versions of thesource sentences, the second one guarantees that theoutput sentence is a possible one (it is grammaticaland fluent) in the target language.
In the current PB-SMT systems, the word-based models were replacedby the phrase-based ones built based on sequences ofwords (the phrases).9The translation and language models used in SMTare built from a training parallel corpora (a setof source sentences and their translations into thetarget language) by means of IBM models (Brownet al, 1993) which calculate the probability ofa given source word (or sequences of words) betranslated to a target word (or sequence of words).The availability of some open-source toolkits (suchas Moses (Koehn et al, 2007)10) to train, testand evaluate SMT models has helping the widelyemployment of this MT approach to perhaps almostany language pair and corpus type.
In fact, SMTis an inexpensive, easy and language independentway for detecting recurrent phrases that form thelanguage and translation models.However, while PB-SMT models have achievedthe state-of-the-art translation quality, its perfor-mance seams to be stagnated.
Consequently, there isa recent common trend towards enriching the currentmodels with some extra knowledge as the newapproaches of factored translation models (Koehnand Hoang, 2007) or syntax-based (or syntax-augmented) MT systems (Tiedemann and Kotze?,2009; Tinsley and Way, 2009; Zollmann et al,2008).More related to our work are the proposals ofMusa et al (2003) and Chung et al (2005).
Both6http://www.systransoft.com/7http://www.apertium.org/8http://www.google.com/language_tools9In SMT, a phrase is a sequence of two or more words eventhough they do not form a syntactic phrase.10http://www.statmt.org/moses/25of them are CS-based translation tools which takethe topics of a bilingual conversation guessed by atopic spotting mechanism, and use them to generatephrases that can be chosen by the end-user to followthe conversation.
Since they are interactive tools,the phrases are first displayed on the screen in theend-user?s native language and, then, he/she selectsa phrase to be translated (by a text-to-speech engine)in the language in which the conversation is takingplace.In our work, the main goal is also investigatingnew ways to improve MT performance, but insteadof greater BLEU or NIST values we are interestedin producing more culturally contextualized transla-tions.
Similarly to (Musa et al, 2003) and (Chunget al, 2005), we intend to help two bilingual usersto develop a communication.
However, in ourcase we are not only concerned with the languagedifferences, but also the cultural divergences.
Toachieve this ambitious goal we rely on commonsense knowledge collected from Brazilian andNorth-American individuals as explained in the nextsection.3 Common SenseCommon sense (CS) plays an important role inthe communication between two people as theinterchanged messages carries their prior beliefs,attitudes, and values (Anacleto et al, 2006b).When this communication involves more than onelanguage, translation tools can help to deal with thelanguage barrier but they are not able to cope withthe cultural one.
In this case, the CS knowledge is apowerful mean to guarantee that the understandingwill overcomes the cultural differences.The CS knowledge applied in our research wascollaboratively collected from volunteers throughweb sites and reflects the culture of their com-munities (Anacleto et al, 2006a; Anacleto et al,2006b).
More specifically, our research relies on CScollected as an effort of the Open Mind CommonSense projects in Brazil (OMCS-Br11) and in theUSA (OMCS12).The OMCS started in 1999, at the MIT MediaLab, to collect common sense from volunteers on11http://www.sensocomum.ufscar.br12http://commons.media.mit.edu/en/the Internet.
More than ten years later, this projectencompass many different areas, languages, andproblems.
Nowadays, there are over a millionsentences in the English site collected from over15,000 contributors.13OMCS-Br is a younger project that has beingdeveloped by LIA-DC/UFSCar (Advanced Interac-tion Laboratory of the Federal University of Sa?oCarlos) since August 2005.
Figure 1 illustrates theOMCS-Br architecture to collect and manipulate CSknowledge in five work fronts: (1) common senseknowledge collection, (2) knowledge representation,(3) knowledge manipulation, (4) access and (5) use.A detailed explanation of each work front can befound in (Anacleto et al, 2008a).14As can be seen in Figure 1, the CS knowledgeis collected in the OMCS-Br site (bottom-left) bymeans of templates15.
Then, the collected fact isstored in a knowledge base (up-left) from which it isconverted into graphs that form a semantic network.These semantic networks, called ConceptNets, arecomposed of nodes and arcs (to connect nodes) asshown in the bottom-right part of Figure 1.
Thenodes represent the knowledge derived from the CSbase while the arcs represent relations between twonodes based on studies on the theory of (Minsky,1986).
Examples of Minsky relations extractedfrom the ConceptNet, in English, related to the term?book?
are: IsA (?book?
IsA ?literary work?
),UsedFor (?book?
UsedFor ?learn?
), CapableOf(?book?
CapableOf ?store useful knowledge?
),PartOf (?book?
PartOf ?library?)
and DefinedAs(?book?
DefinedAs ?foundation knowledge?
).Figure 2 brings an extract of our BrazilianConceptNet (Anacleto et al, 2008b) and Figure 3,a parallel extract obtained from the North-AmericanConceptNet (Singh, 2002).
As it is possible to noticefrom these figures, there is a straight relationshipbetween these ConceptNets.
It is possible to findmany cases in which relations in English have13http://csc.media.mit.edu/14Examples of successful applications using the CS knowl-edge derived from OMCS-Br can be fount at http://lia.dc.ufscar.br/15The templates are semi-structured statements in naturallanguage with some gaps that should be filled out with thecontributors?
knowledge so that the final statement correspondsto a common sense fact (Anacleto et al, 2008a).26Figure 1: OMCS-Br Project architecture (Anacleto et al, 2008a)their counterpart in Portuguese as in the examplegiven in which ?book?
is connected with ?learn?by the relation UsedFor and the book?s translationto Portuguese, ?livro?, is also linked with thetranslation of learn (?aprender?)
by a relation of thesame type.Different from other researches using semanticnetworks, such as MindNet16 (Vanderwende etal., 2005), WordNet17 (Fellbaum, 1998) andFrameNet18 (Baker et al, 1998), here we proposethe application of source and target ConceptNetstogether in the same application.16http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/mindnet/17http://wordnet.princeton.edu/18http://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu/4 Culturally Contextualized MachineTranslationAs presented in the previous sections, the maingoal of our research is to investigate how CSknowledge can help MT systems to generate moreculturally contextualized translations.
To do so, weare working with two ConceptNets derived fromOMCS and OMCS-Br projects, that represent theCS knowledge in English and Brazilian Portuguese,respectively, as presented in section 3.In this context, we intend to investigate theapplication of CS knowledge in the MT process inthree different moments:1.
Before the automatic translation ?
In this casethe source sentence input is enriched withsome CS knowledge (for example, contextinformation) that can help the MT tool tochoose the best translation;27Figure 2: Graphical representation of the Brazilian ConceptNet (Meuchi et al, 2009)Figure 3: Graphical representation of the North-American ConceptNet (Meuchi et al, 2009)2.
During the automatic translation ?
In this casethe CS knowledge is used as a new feature inthe machine learning process of translation;3.
After the automatic translation ?
In this casesome target words in the output sentence can beenriched with CS knowledge (for example, theknowledge derived from the ?DefinedAs?
or?IsA?
Minsky relations) to better explain theirmeanings.Currently, we are dealing with the last momentand planing some ways to fix/filter the targetsentences produced by a SMT system.
This partof the work is being carried out in the scope of amaster?s project which aims at building a bilingualculturally contextualized chat.
By using a SMT tool(SMTT) and a CS knowledge tool (CSKT), this chatwill help the communication between two users withdifferent languages and cultures.The SMTT is a phrase-based one trained usingMoses and a corpus of 17,397 pairs of Portuguese?English parallel sentences with 1,026,512 tokens(494,391 in Portuguese and 532,121 in English).The training corpus contains articles from the onlineversion of the Brazilian scientific magazine PesquisaFAPESP19 written in Brazilian Portuguese (original)and English (version) and, thus, a vocabulary thatdo not fit exactly the one found in chats.
TheSMTT trained based on this training corpus hada performance of 0.39 BLEU and 8.30 NIST forPortuguese?English translation and 0.36 BLEU and7.83 NIST for English?Portuguese, in a test corpuscomposed of 649 new parallel sentences fromthe same domain of the training corpus (Caseliand Nunes, 2009).20 For our experiments withculturally-contextualized MT, the option of usingSMT models trained on general language in spite ofbuilding specific ones for the chat domain was takenaiming at measuring the impact that the CSKT hason the final translation.The CSKT, in turn, will help one user towrite his/her messages taking into account the19http://revistapesquisa.fapesp.br20In previous experiments carried out on the same corpora,the best online MT system was Google with 0.33 BLEU and7.61 NIST for Portuguse?English and 0.31 BLEU and 6.87NIST for English?Portuguese translation (Caseli et al, 2006).28cultural differences between he/she and the otheruser.
A culturally contextualized translation willbe generated by applying the knowledge derivedfrom the two ConceptNets (see section 3) to fix/filterthe automatically generated translations in a semi-automatic process assisted by both chat users.To illustrate the use of both tools in the productionof a culturally contextualized translation, lets workwith slangs in the following example.
Imagine aBrazilian and an American communicating throughour bilingual chat supported by the SMTT and theCSKT.
The American user writes the sentence:American says: ?Hey dude, I will borrow a C-note from someone tomorrow!
?.Supposing that our SMTT is not able to providea translation for the words ?dude?
and ?C-note?
?what is, indeed, a true possibility?
outputtingan incomplete translation in which these wordsremain untranslated.
Consequently, the Brazilianuser would not understand the American?s sentenceincompletely translated to Portuguese.
So, sincethe SMTT do not know the translation of theseslangs, the CSKT will be started to look forpossible definitions in the CS knowledge bases.At this moment, the CSKT could provide somebasic information about the untranslated words,for example that ?dude is a slang?
and ?dude (is)defined as guy?
or that ?C-note (is) defined as 100dollars?, etc.
Being aware of the untranslated wordsand their cultural meanings displayed by the CSKT,the American user could change or edit his/heroriginal message by writing:American says: ?Hey guy, I will borrow 100dollars from someone tomorrow!
?.The final edited sentence has a higher probabilityto occur in the target language than the original oneand, so, to be corrected translated by the SMTT.In addition to this master?s project, we are alsodeveloping two undergraduate researches aiming atdiscovering useful knowledge from the ?parallel?ConceptNets.
The first ongoing undergraduateresearch (Barchi et al, 2009) aims at aligning theparallel concepts found in Brazilian and EnglishConceptNets.
This alignment can be performed, forexample, based on lexical alignments automaticallygenerated by GIZA++21 (Och and Ney, 2000) or thehierarchical structure of the nodes and arcs in theConceptNets.
The second ongoing undergraduateresearch (Meuchi et al, 2009), in turn, is involvedwith the enrichment of one ConceptNet based on therelations found in the other (parallel) ConceptNetand also in lexically aligned parallel texts.5 Opportunities for CollaborationThe work described in this paper presents thefirst steps towards applying semantic knowledge togenerate more culturally contextualized translationsbetween Brazilian Portuguese and English texts.In this sense, we see some opportunities forcollaboration regarding the roles that are played by:(1) our research work, (2) the semantic resourcesavailable to be used and (3) the resources and resultsthat will be produced by our work.First of all, this work is a joint effort of tworesearch areas: NLP/CL (machine translation) andhuman-computer interaction (HCI) (common senseknowledge gathering and usage).
From this fact, wesee a great opportunity to bring a new ?vision?
tothe NLP/CL applications in which we are concernedwith not only to produce a correct answer to theproposed problem, but also an answer that soundsmore natural and user-friendly.
So, regarding ourwork?s role, we see the opportunity to improvethe collaboration between researchers from NLP/CLand HCI.The second possibility of collaboration envi-sioned by us is related to other sources of semanticknowledge that could be applied to our work.Although we are using common sense knowledgeto support the generation of more culturally con-textualized translations, other semantic informationbases could also be applied.
In this case, webelieve that this workshop is a great opportunityto be aware of other research projects that applysemantic knowledge to MT or are engaged withthe construction of semantic resources that could beused in our work.Finally, we also see a future source of col-laboration regarding the use of the bilingualresources obtained as the product of this research.21http://code.google.com/p/giza-pp/29The parallel-aligned (in Brazilian Portuguese andEnglish) common sense base, the translation know-ledge inferred from this aligned base or eventhe bilingual culturally contextualized chat wouldbe useful in other research projects in MT orother bilingual applications such as informationretrieval or summarization.
We also believe that themethodology applied to develop these resources andthe results obtained from this work could be appliedto other language pairs to derive new bilingualsimilar resources.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we have described the first ideas andsteps towards the culturally contextualized machinetranslation, a new approach to generate automatictranslations using a phrase-based SMT tool and acommon sense knowledge tool.It is important to say that this proposal involvesresearchers from NLP/CL an HCI and it brings anopportunity for collaboration between these relatedareas.
Furthermore, this work aims at stimulatingresearchers from other countries to work with theBrazilian Portuguese and presenting its ideas in thisworkshop is a great opportunity to achieve this goal.Future steps of this ongoing work are concernedwith the implementation of the proposed prototypesdesigned for the bilingual culturally contextualizedchat, the alignment and the enrichment of theConceptNets.
After the implementation of theseprototypes they will be tested and refined toencompass the needed improvements.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the support of Brazilian agencies CAPES,CNPq and FAPESP and also the workshop organiz-ers by making possible the presentation of this work.ReferencesJunia Coutinho Anacleto, Henry Lieberman,Aparecido Augusto de Carvalho, Va?nia Paulade Almeida Ne?ris, Muriel de Souza Godoi, MarieTsutsumi, Jose?
H. Espinosa, Ame?rico TalaricoNeto, and Silvia Zem-Mascarenhas.
2006a.
Usingcommon sense to recognize cultural differences.
InIBERAMIA-SBIA, pages 370?379.Junia Coutinho Anacleto, Henry Lieberman, MarieTsutsumi, Vnia Neris, Aparecido Carvalho, JoseEspinosa, and Silvia Zem-mascarenhas.
2006b.Can common sense uncover cultural differences incomputer applications.
In Proceedings of IFIPWCC2006, Spring-Verlag, pages 1?10.Junia Coutinho Anacleto, Aparecido Fabiano P. deCarvalho, Alexandre M. Ferreira, Eliane N. Pereira,and Alessandro J. F. Carlos.
2008a.
Common sense-based applications to advance personalized learning.In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conferenceon Systems, Man and Cybernetics (SMC 2008), pages3244?3249, Singapore.Junia Coutinho Anacleto, Aparecido Fabiano P. deCarvalho, Eliane N. Pereira, Alexandre M. Ferreira,and Alessandro J. F. Carlos.
2008b.
Machines withgood sense: How can computers become capable ofsensible reasoning?
In IFIP AI, pages 195?204.Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.
1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet Project.
InProceedings of the COLING-ACL, Montreal, Canada.Paulo Henrique Barchi, Helena de Medeiros Caseli, andJunia Coutinho Anacleto.
2009.
Alinhamento deGrafos: Investigac?a?o do Alinhamento de ConceptNetspara a Traduc?a?o Automa?tica.
In Anais do I Workshopde Iniciac?a?o Cient?
?fica em Tecnologia da Informac?a?oe da Linguagem Humana (TILic), pages 1?4.Peter F. Brown, John Cocke, Stephen A. Della Pietra,Vincent J. Della Pietra, Fredrick Jelinek, John D.Lafferty, Robert L. Mercer, and Paul S. Roossin.1990.
A statistical approach to machine translation.Computational Linguistics, 16(2):79?85.Peter F. Brown, Vincent J.Della Pietra, Stephen A. DellaPietra, and Robert.
L. Mercer.
1993.
The Mathematicsof Statistical Machine Translation: Parameter Estima-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 19:263?311.Nicola Cancedda, Marc Dymetman, George Foster, andCyril Goutte, 2009.
A Statistical Machine TranslationPrimer, chapter 1, pages 1?36.
The MIT Press.Helena de Medeiros Caseli and Israel Aono Nunes.2009.
Statistical machine translation: little changesbig impacts.
In Proceedings of the 7th BrazilianSymposium in Information and Human LanguageTechnology, pages 1?9.Helena de Medeiros Caseli, Maria das Grac?asVolpe Nunes, and Mikel L. Forcada.
2006.
Automaticinduction of bilingual resources from aligned parallelcorpora: application to shallow-transfer machinetranslation.
Machine Translation, 20:227?245.Jae-woo Chung, Rachel Kern, and Henry Lieberman.2005.
Topic Spotting Common Sense TranslationAssistant.
In Gerrit C. van der Veer and Carolyn Gale,editors, Extended Abstracts Proceedings of the 200530Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems(CHI 2005), Portland, Oregon, USA, April 2-7.
ACM.G.
Doddington.
2002.
Automatic evaluation of ma-chine translation quality using n-gram cooccurrencestatistics.
In Proceedings of the Human LanguageTechnology Conference (HLT 2002), pages 128?132.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: AnElectronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press, Cambridge,MA.Philipp Koehn and Hieu Hoang.
2007.
FactoredTranslation Models.
In Proceedings of the 2007Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing and Computational NaturalLanguage Learning, pages 868?876, Prague, June.Association for Computational Linguistics.Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu.2003.
Statistical phrase-based translation.
InProceedings of the Human Language Technology(HLT/NAACL 2003), pages 127?133.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, RichardZens, Chris Dyer, Ondr?ej Bojar, Alexandra Con-stantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: OpenSource Toolkit for Statistical Machine Translation.In Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL2007), pages 177?180, Prague, Czech Republic, June.Association for Computational Linguistics.La?
?s Augusta Silva Meuchi, Helena de Medeiros Caseli,and Junia Coutinho Anacleto.
2009.
Infere?ncia derelac?o?es em ConceptNets com base em corpus paraleloalinhado.
In Anais do VI WorkShop de Trabalhosde Iniciac?a?o Cient?
?fica (WTIC) - evento integrante doWebMedia 2009, pages 1?3.M.
Minsky.
1986.
The Society of Mind.
Simon andSchuster, New York.Rami Musa, Madleina Scheidegger, Andrea Kulas, andYoan Anguilet.
2003.
Globuddy, a dynamic broadcontext phrase book.
In CONTEXT, pages 467?474.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2000.
Improvedstatistical alignment models.
In Proceedings of the38th Annual Meeting of the ACL (ACL 2000), pages440?447, Hong Kong, China.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2004.
TheAlignment Template Approach to Statistical MachineTranslation.
Computational Linguistics, 30(4):417?449.K.
Papineni, S. Roukos, T. Ward, and W. J. Zhu.
2002.BLEU: a method for automatic evaluation of machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the 40th Annual meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL2002), pages 311?318.P.
Singh.
2002.
The OpenMind Commonsenseproject.
KurzweilAI.net.
Available at:<http://web.media.mit.edu/?push/OMCSProject.pdf>.Jo?rg Tiedemann and Gideon Kotze?.
2009.
Building alarge machine?aligned parallel treebank.
In MarcoPassarotti, Adam Przepirkowski, Savina Raynaud, andFrank Van Eynde, editors, Proceedings of the 8thInternational Workshop on Treebanks and LinguisticTheories (TLT?08), pages 197?208.
EDUCatt, Mi-lano/Italy.John Tinsley and Andy Way.
2009.
Automaticallygenerated parallel treebanks and their exploitability inmachine translation.
Machine Translation, 23:1?22.Lucy Vanderwende, Gary Kacmarcik, Hisami Suzuki,and Arul Menezes.
2005.
Mindnet: anautomatically-created lexical resource.
In Proceed-ings of HLT/EMNLP on Interactive Demonstrations,pages 8?9, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Andreas Zollmann, Ashish Venugopal, Franz Och,and Jay Ponte.
2008.
A systematic comparisonof phrase?based, hierarchical and syntax?augmentedstatistical mt.
In COLING ?08: Proceedings ofthe 22nd International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 1145?1152, Morristown, NJ, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.31
