Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Young Investigators Workshop on Computational Approaches to Languages of the Americas,pages 1?7, Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics in Brazil: An OverviewThiago A. S. Pardo1, Caroline V. Gasperin1, Helena M. Caseli2,Maria das Gra?as V. Nunes1N?cleo Interinstitucional de Ling?
?stica Computacional (NILC)1 Instituto de Ci?ncias Matem?ticas e de Computa?
?o, Universidade de S?o PauloAv.
Trabalhador S?o-carlense, 400 - CentroP.O.Box 668.
13560-970 - S?o Carlos/SP, Brazil2Departamento de Computa?
?o, Universidade Federal de S?o CarlosRod.
Washington Lu?s, Km 235P.O.Box 676.
13565-905 - S?o Carlos/SP, Brazil{taspardo,cgasperin}@icmc.usp.br, helenacaseli@dc.ufscar.br,gracan@icmc.usp.brAbstractIn this paper we give an overview ofComputational Linguistics / NaturalLanguage Processing in Brazil, describing thegeneral research scenario, the main researchgroups, existing events and journals, and theperceived challenges, among other relevantinformation.
We also identify opportunitiesfor collaboration.1 Brazilian Research ScenarioComputational Linguistics (CL) / NaturalLanguage Processing (NLP) is an emerging andgrowing area in Brazil.
Although there is noconsensus, it is traditionally understood as aresearch field within Artificial Intelligence,gathering researchers mainly from ComputerScience/Engineering and Linguistics.
There is alsomodest interaction with Information Sciences area.In general the CL/NLP area in Brazil startedwith researchers that finished their PhD abroadand, after coming back, initiated the first CL/NLPprojects.
Since then, but mainly more recently, thearea has experienced some internationalization dueto the fact that the number of undergraduate andgraduate students that undergo internships onrenowned foreign NLP research centers hasincreased.
In Brazil, PhD students have thepossibility to take their complete PhD courseabroad or, alternatively, only a part of it.
In bothcases, students may count on Brazilian fundingagencies.The area is more strongly represented andpromoted by Brazilian Computer Society (SBC)1,particularly by its Special Interest Group on NLP(CEPLN)2, created in 2007.
It is interesting thatmost researchers in Brazil (independent from theirbackground area) do not differentiate CL fromNLP, using both terms interchangeably.Research in Brazil is carried out mainly atpublic universities and at a few private universitiesand business companies.
Differently from mostcountries, in Brazil public universities aregenerally considered the top ones, althoughexceptions do exist.Currently, there are no undergraduate courses onCL/NLP in Brazil, therefore researchers in thisfield come mainly from Computer Science andLinguistics courses.
However, there are a fewgraduate courses on CL/NLP, with both computingand language emphases, such as the MSc and PhDprograms at USP/S?o Carlos3, UFSCar4,UNESP/Araraquara5, PUC-RS6, and UFRGS7,among others.1http://www.sbc.org.br2http://www.sbc.org.br/cepln3http://www.icmc.usp.br/~posgrad/computacao.html4http://ppgcc.dc.ufscar.br and http://www.ppgl.ufscar.br5http://www.fclar.unesp.br/poslinpor6http://www.pucrs.br/inf/pos7http://www.ufrgs.br1Funding for research comes mainly fromgovernmental agencies.
Nowadays Brazil has 4agencies that significantly support research in thecountry (in this order): CNPq8 (National Councilfor Scientific and Technological Development),FAPESP9 (S?o Paulo Research Foundation),CAPES10 (Coordena?
?o de Aperfei?oamento dePessoal de N?vel Superior), and FINEP11 (Researchand Projects Financing).
Private funding is stillmodest, which reflects the limited interactionbetween universities and companies.
Some of theabove agencies have tried to change this scenarioby providing special joint university-industryfunding programs.
For instance, FAPESP andMicrosoft Research recently formed a partnershipto fund socially relevant projects in the state of S?oPaulo, e.g., the PorSimples12 text simplificationproject.
FAPESP also funds special university-company programs, where the research to bedeveloped must be of interest to a company, which,in turn, has to support the research and worktogether with the researchers.NLP research in Brazil is varied and deals notonly with Portuguese processing, but also withEnglish and Spanish mainly.
Given that Portugueseis among the most spoken languages in the world(it is estimated that almost 250 million peoplespeak some variant of Portuguese in the world13),research interests on Portuguese processing isshared with other countries, mainly Portugal.
Inthis sense, Portugal has launched an initiative tocreate and maintain a unified information storagecenter that indexes resources and publicationsfor/on Portuguese processing.
The initiative is theLinguateca project14, which was officially createdin 2002, but initial works date back to 1998.
Santos(2009) presents and evaluates the work carried outby Linguateca.Brazil and Portugal have a history of partnershipon Portuguese processing, which formally startedin 1993 with the first PROPOR conference(PROPOR event series is introduced in Section 4).8http://www.cnpq.br9http://www.fapesp.br10http://www.capes.gov.br11http://www.finep.gov.br12http://caravelas.icmc.usp.br13Besides Brazil and Portugal, Portuguese is an officiallanguage in Angola, Cape Verde, East Timor, EquatorialGuinea, Guinea-Bissau, Macau, Mozambique, and S?o Tom?and Pr?ncipe.14http://www.linguateca.ptWe maintain this partnership active by havingcollaborative projects and promoting joint events.As far as we know, other Portuguese speakingcountries do not have a tradition of CL/NLPresearch.
However, curiously, there are researchersfrom other non-Portuguese speaking countries thatdevelop relevant research on Portuguese language.For example, to the best of our knowledge,currently the best syntactical parsers forPortuguese were developed by researchers fromDenmark and the USA.
These researchers activelywork with the Brazilian research community.In what follows, we briefly present the Brazilianresearch profile (Section 2), the main researchgroups (Section 3), and the Brazilian events andjournals (Section 4).
We also report the mainchallenges for research in Brazil (Section 5) andthe collaboration opportunities with otherAmerican researchers that we envision (Section 6).2 Research ProfileIn 2009 CEPLN proposed a survey of the status ofCL/NLP research in Brazil and published theresults during the 7th Brazilian Symposium inInformation and Human Language Technology(Pardo et al, 2009).
The survey aimed at gatheringinformation both about researchers (such as theirlocation, education level, number of students, etc.
)and their research (main research topics, number offunded projects, main challenges, etc.
).The survey was carried out mainly on-line.
Acall for participation was sent to all known e-maillists from scientific associations from varied areas.Data was also obtained from the Registry of LatinAmerican Researchers in Natural LanguageProcessing and Computational Linguistics15.148 researchers responded to the survey: 35% ofthese were academic staff with a PhD degree, 16%academic staff with a Master's degree, 1%academic staff with a Bachelors degree, 9% PhDstudents, 26% Master's students, 14%undergraduate students, and 5% others.
Table 1summarizes the main results of the survey,showing the percentage of answers for each issue.One may see that CL/NLP research is mainlycarried out in the south and southeast regions ofBrazil.15http://ww.d.umn.edu/~tpederse/registry/registry.cgi2Table 1.
CEPLN surveyIssues ResultsGeographic distribution 48% S?o Paulo state18% Rio Grande do Sul state8% Paran?
state7% Rio de Janeiro state19% Other statesNational collaboration 52% Yes, 48% NoInternational Collaboration 25% Yes, 75% NoBackground area 62% Computer Science29% Linguistics9% OtherSupervision of postgraduate students 28% Yes, 72% NoFunded projects 28% Yes, 72% NoSource of funding 43% Federal government agencies25% S?o Paulo state government agency31% Other state government agencies.Figure 1.
Research topicsThe survey also inquired the participants abouttheir research topics.
Figure 1 shows thedistribution of topics among researchers whoresponded to the survey.
Researchers could markas many research topics as they wanted.
Sometopics subsume others, so these were marked moreoften by respondents.Ontologies and semantics were the topicsmarked by most respondents.
We believe that thereis indeed a significant number of researchersworking on them, but we also believe that they arenot the main topic of research of most people who3listed them.
For example, the statistics for?Ontologies?
probably also include researcherswho simply make use of ontologies in their workand not necessarily develop ontologies or ontologygeneration methods.
Other researchers believe thatwe are in a changing period, moving from syntax-centered research to semantics-centered research,due to the fact that more recently the communityhas produced more robust semantic tools andresources, e.g., the first versions of Portugueselanguage wordnets, as TeP 2.016, Wordnet.PT17,and MWN.PT18, as well as named entitiesrecognizers, e.g., REMBRANDT19.Interestingly, corpus linguistics is one of thehottest topics but, at the same time, it is not seen asa genuine CL/NLP topic: most researchers thatindicated corpus linguistics as a research topicmarked it as ?other area of interest?.
Someresearchers have advocated that CL/NLP area andcorpus linguistics should be considered a uniquearea, while others argue that these areas havedifferent purposes and, therefore, differentscientific methods, what would avoid suchunification.
Text mining is another curious case:research on this theme is mostly carried out bynon-CL/NLP researchers, but instead byresearchers on general AI and database areasBased on the publications on the last Brazilianscientific events and on the fact that we personallyknow most of the CL/NLP researchers in Brazil,we dare to indicate the following topics as the mostrecurrent ones (in no particular order): textsummarization, machine translation, textsimplification, automatic discourse analysis,coreference and anaphora resolution, informationretrieval, text mining, terminology/lexiconresearch, ontologies and semantic tagging, andcorpus linguistics.Based on the survey, we estimate that Brazil hasabout 250 researchers (including students) withinterest in CL/NLP area.
Although only 148researchers attended the CEPLN survey, wecomputed other researchers in the Registry of LatinAmerican Researchers in Natural LanguageProcessing and Computational Linguistics and inthe CEPLN e-mail list that did not attend thesurvey.
In general, we estimate that about 35-40 of16http://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/tep2/index.htm17http://www.clul.ul.pt/clg/wordnetpt18http://mwnpt.di.fc.ul.pt19http://xldb.di.fc.ul.pt/Rembrandtthese are active researchers, whose main topic ofresearch is CL/NLP, and who superviseundergraduate and graduate students on thesubject.
We also estimate that there are 5-10researchers on speech processing that activelycollaborate with the CL/NLP community.3 Main research groupsThe largest CL/NLP research group in Brazil isNILC (Interinstitutional Center for Research andDevelopment in Computational Linguistics)20,which includes researchers mainly from Universityof S?o Paulo (USP; Computer Science and Physicsdepartments), Federal University of S?o Carlos(UFSCar; Computer Science and Linguisticsdepartments) and State University of S?o Paulo(UNESP; Linguistics department).
The group wascreated at 1993.NILC has a long history of research in CL/NLP,which has thrived since the ReGra21 project, inwhich the grammar checker for Portuguese that iscurrently used within Microsoft Word since its2000 version was built.
In fact, ReGra project wasborn from a university-industry collaboration, oneof the few successful ones in CL/NLP area inBrazil.
At the moment most of the research atNILC is concentrated on the following topics:automatic summarization, text simplification,coreference resolution, and terminology.
NILC hashosted STIL 2009 (STIL event series is introducedin the next section).
NILC also currently holds thepresidency of CEPLN.The NLP group at the Computer Sciencedepartment at the Catholic University of RioGrande do Sul (PUC-RS)22 also has a tradition ofresearch on CL/NLP.
Their current projects focuson information retrieval, ontology engineering andanaphora resolution.
The group also has researchon multi-agent systems applied to NLP tasks and,more recently, on text categorization.
The grouphosts PROPOR 2010 (PROPOR event series isalso introduced in the next section).
The group hasheld the presidency of CEPLN from its creation(2007) until 2009.The above research group and NILC form themain CL/NLP research vein in Brazil.
They havejoint research projects and have strong20http://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br21http://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/nilc/projects/regra.htm22http://www.inf.pucrs.br/~linatural4collaboration, constantly hosting graduate studentsfrom each other in internship research periods.There are also other very relevant NLP groupsin Brazil that regularly carry out projects on thearea.
We may cite the Catholic University of Riode Janeiro (PUC-Rio)23, Federal University of RioGrande do Sul (UFRGS), State University ofCampinas (UNICAMP), University of the SinosRiver Valley (Unisinos), and State University ofMaring?
(UEM), among others.4 Events and JournalsThe Brazilian Symposium on Information andHuman Language Technology (STIL) is the mainevent on CL/NLP in South America and is in itsseventh edition.
It is promoted by CEPLN and iscarried out since 1993.
It is intended to be a forumfor gathering everyone with interest in CL/NLP.
Ithappens regularly (every one or two years) andaccepts contributions in Portuguese, Spanish andEnglish.
Details about the event are available atwww.nilc.icmc.usp.br/til.The International Conference on ComputationalProcessing of Portuguese Language (PROPOR) isan international conference jointly promoted byBrazil and Portugal and is in its ninth edition.
It isthe main conference with focus on Portugueselanguage, giving equal space to research on textand speech processing.
It is carried out in Braziland in Portugal interchangeably (every two orthree years) and accepts submissions in Englishonly.
PROPOR?s proceedings are published as partof Springer Lecture Notes series.
Details about theevent are available atwww.nilc.icmc.usp.br/cgpropor.STIL and PROPOR are the most relevantconferences for researchers in CL/NLP in Brazil.Their last editions received support from NAACL.AI events are also recurrent forums for CL/NLPresearchers.
The Brazilian AI events are theBrazilian Symposium on Artificial Intelligence(SBIA)24 and the National Meeting on ArtificialIntelligence (ENIA)25, also promoted by SBC.They are already in their twentieth and seventheditions, respectively.Other related events in Brazil are the Corpus23www.letras.puc-rio.br/Clic/ogrupo.htm24http://www.jointconference.fei.edu.br/25http://csbc2009.inf.ufrgs.br/Linguistics Meeting (ELC)26 and Brazilian Schoolon Computational Linguistics (EBRALC)27, whichare in their eighth and third editions, respectively.These events are mainly organized by theLinguistics research community.
EBRALC ismainly intended for new students in the area andhas been held together with ELC.Brazilian researchers count mainly on thefollowing journals for national periodicalpublications: JBCS28 (Journal of the Brazilian ComputerSociety), which is published by SBC andcovers all Computer Science areas, includingCL/NLP; RITA29 (Journal of Theoretical and AppliedComputing), also of general scope.It is important to cite Linguam?tica30, which is anEuropean initiative to publish CL/NLP research onthe Iberian languages.CEPLN is also organizing a joint journal withother SBC AI-related special interest groups.5 ChallengesAt STIL 2009, the research community discussedchallenging issues (raised by respondents of theCEPLN survey) that hamper research on CL/PLNin Brazil.
The main issues raised were: Lack of large and robust language resourcesfor Portuguese; Lack of formal models for linguisticdescription and analysis of Portuguese; Difficulty in attracting students and researchersto the area; Lack of multidisciplinary collaboration; CL/NLP marginalization in both ComputerScience and Linguistics. Poor interaction between universities andindustry; Insufficient funding.Here we discuss some of these points.
AlthoughPortuguese has got state of the art tools (as POStaggers and syntactic parsers) and comprehensivecorpora of contemporary written language, there is26http://www.corpuslg.org/elc/Inicial.html27http://www.corpuslg.org/ebralc/Inicial.html28http://www.springer.com/computer+science/journal/1317329http://www.seer.ufrgs.br/index.php/rita30http://linguamatica.pt5still a need for resources for particular applicationsor domains.
Many researchers feel that Portuguesesyntactic parsers (which are considered basic NLPtools) and wordnet-like resources are still toolimited, not attending their demands.
Brazil alsolacks representative spoken corpora, what may beexplained by the fact that, in Brazil, written andspoken language processing communities havemodest interaction.
While written languageprocessing research is reported at SBC events,spoken language processing is mainly conductedunder SBrT (Brazilian TelecommunicationsSociety)31.
PROPOR series have tried to bringtogether these two communities, fostering jointresearch and mutual awareness of both researchlines.The lack of formal models for Portugueselinguistic description and analysis was mainlyperceived by linguists that work with CL/NLP.
Infact, they acknowledge that Brazil has no traditionin carrying out events on these themes, what wouldeventually harm CL/NLP research.
This goes alongwith Sp?rck Jones (2007) opinion paper.
One firststep towards overcoming this lack of formalmodels for Portuguese description was theWorkshop on Portuguese Description32, carried outtogether with the last edition of STIL.Another point that deserves attention is thesentiment that CL/NLP research suffers frommarginalization in both Computer Science andLinguistics areas, as it is usually the case formultidisciplinary subjects.
We believe this mightbe fueled by the way research is assessed in Brazil.In Brazil, the quality of research is mainly assessedby the publications generated from it, andpublication vehicles from Linguistics are usuallyrated worse in Computer Science, and vice versa.
Itis expected that different areas may have differentscientific methods and perspectives, as well as it isnatural that such differences are mirrored in anyevaluation instrument.
However, such factors leadsome researchers to feel uncomfortable with themultidisciplinary nature of CL/NLP field and theway they are recognized in their own major areas.Many researchers (not only from Brazil, but alsofrom Portugal) have supported that CL/NLP shouldbecome a new ?major?
area, instead of being partof Computer Science or Linguistics.31http://www.sbrt.org.br32http://www.ppgl.ufscar.br/jdp/index.htmlConcerning insufficient funding, we believe thatthe main complaints came from Brazilian regionsother than south and southeast, which currentlyconcentrate CL/NLP research.
In fact, during alengthy discussion at STIL 2009 about the raisedchallenges, this issue was dismissed by manyparticipants as non-representative.
We believe thatthe funding situation in each region of Brazilcontributes to the status of research on all topics,not particularly CL/NLP, in these regions.
Whilein most Brazilian states researchers have tocompete for funding from national agencies, somestates (mainly in the southeast region) can rely onstrong state-based funding agencies, such asFAPESP, in the state of S?o Paulo.6 Opportunities for CollaborationWe believe that there are many opportunities forcollaboration on CL/NLP with other researchers inthe Americas, mainly due to the fact that theresearch community in Brazil works not only withPortuguese, but also with English and Spanish.One first step towards collaboration in LatinAmerica was given in the event CHARLA 2008(Grand Challenges in Computer Science Researchin Latin America Workshop).
Organized by severalscientific societies (including SBC), the eventaimed at contributing to the definition of a long-term research agenda in Latin America with thepotential to significantly advance science andmotivate the networking of abilities andcompetencies in Latin America.
One of therecognized challenges was ?multilinguism?, whichinvolves several CL/NLP topics.
CHARLAimmediate impact in Brazil was the adaptation ofBrazilian CL/NLP events to receive contributionsin Spanish, which has a vast number of speakers inLatin America.
Contributions in English werealready traditionally considered in Brazilianevents.We believe that another important source ofcollaboration comes from awareness of theongoing research projects in the Americas.Workshops such as this seem to be a channel forthe exchange of information.
We envision thatinitial collaborations may arise within machinetranslation projects, which naturally already dealwith the representative languages of the Americas.Letting aside technical collaboration, we believethere is room for higher-level concrete actions that6could foster collaboration in the Americas.
Theseare actions that may increase the visibility of theresearch done in Latin America, as well asmotivate new research.
One first action that weenvisage is the opening of evaluation challengesand shared tasks to the languages of the Americasother than English.
For instance,contests/conferences such as TAC33,Senseval/SemEval34, and TREC35, among others,might make Portuguese/Spanish datasets available,as CLEF36 has done in its last editions.
This hascertainly an organizational cost, but it may turn outto be a valuable investment.Another action that could stimulate the progressof CL/NLP research in Latin America consists ofincluding the proceedings of other AmericanCL/NLP conferences in the ACL Anthology37, forexample, the proceedings of STIL and PROPOR,to mention the Brazilian examples.
This could berestricted to conferences that receivedACL/NAACL endorsement and/or sponsorship.While the first action we proposed would makeit feasible for more countries to participate in theevaluation contests, the second action would allowthe works carried out in these countries to be betterknown.In a different strategy, we imagine that it mustbe possible for regional scientific associations toestablish formal partnerships, granting someadvantages to associated researchers from thecorresponding countries, such as: registrationdiscounts in the CL/NLP conferences from thecountries (for instance, ACL/NAACL memberswould have discounts for registering in Brazilianevents, as well as SBC members for ACL/NAACLevents); and distribution of relevant publicationsfor members of the associations (for instance, SBCtraditionally distributes to its members the JBCSjournal, which is considered a prestigiousinternational publication).Our last idea would be to create a fund (possiblythrough the associations?
partnership) for fundingvisits for knowledge transfer (1-2 weeks) forresearchers and mainly students.
These could be anopportunity for studying/working with researchersfrom other countries that work on topics of33http://www.nist.gov/tac34http://www.senseval.org35http://trec.nist.gov36http://www.clef-campaign.org37http://aclweb.org/anthology-newinterest, as well as for renowned researchers tovisit research groups in order to stimulate work ona particular topic.
Such opportunities would bevery positive for Brazilian students.We believe that the actions suggested above canlead to a more integrated research scenario in theAmericas.AcknowledgmentsThe authors are grateful to SBC, CEPLN,FAPESP, and CAPES for supporting this work andthe realization of STIL 2009, where part of the datashown in this paper was presented.ReferencesPardo, T.A.S.
; Caseli, H.M.; Nunes, M.G.V.
(2009).Mapeamento da Comunidade Brasileira deProcessamento de L?nguas Naturais.
In theProceedings of the 7th Brazilian Symposium inInformation and Human Language Technology -STIL, pp.
1-21.
September 8-10, S?o Carlos/SP,Brazil.Santos, D. (2009).
Caminhos percorridos no mapa daportuguesifica?
?o: A Linguateca em perspectiva.Linguam?tica, N. 1, pp.
25-58.Sp?rck Jones, K. (2007).
Computational Linguistics:What About the Linguistics?
ComputationalLinguistics, Last Words Section, Vol.
33, N. 3, pp.437-441.7
