Proceedings of the Multiword Expressions: From Theory to Applications (MWE 2010), pages 73?76,Beijing, August 2010Identification  of  Reduplication  in  Bengali  Corpus and theirSemantic Analysis: A Rule-Based ApproachTanmoy ChakrabortyDepartment of Computer Science andEngineeringJadavpur Universityits_tanmoy@yahoo.co.inSivaji BandyopadhyayDepartment of Computer Science andEngineeringJadavpur Universitysivaji_cse_ju@yahoo.co.inAbstractIn linguistic studies, reduplication gener-ally means the repetition of any linguis-tic unit such as a phoneme, morpheme,word, phrase, clause or the utterance as awhole.
The identification of reduplica-tion is a part of general task of identifica-tion of multiword expressions (MWE).In the present work, reduplications havebeen identified from the Bengali corpusof the articles of Rabindranath Tagore.The present rule-based approach is di-vided into two phases.
In the first phase,identification of reduplications has beendone mainly at general expression leveland in the second phase, their structuraland semantics classifications are ana-lyzed.
The system has been evaluatedwith average Precision, Recall and F-Score values of 92.82%, 91.50% and92.15% respectively.1 IntroductionIn all languages, the repetition of noun, pronoun,adjective and verb are broadly classified undertwo coarse-grained categories: repetition at the(a) expression level, and at the (b) contents orsemantic level.
The repetition at both the levelsis mainly used for emphasis, generality, intensityor to show continuation of an act.
The paperdeals with the identification of reduplications atboth levels in Bengali.
Reduplication phenome-non is not an exotic feature of Indian Languages.For instance, Yiddish English has duplication ofthe form X schm-X, as in "duplication schmu-plication".
Semantic duplication is also rich inEnglish and Onomatopoeic repetition is not un-common either (e.g., ha-ha, blah-blah etc).Reduplication carries various semantic mean-ings and sometime helps to identify the mentalstate of the speaker as well.
Some correlativewords are used in Bengali to express the posses-siveness, relative or descriptiveness.
They arecalled ?secondary descriptive compounds?.The related studies on MWEs are discussed inSection 2.
Various types of reduplications inBengali and their semantic interpretations arediscussed in Section 3.
The proposed systemarchitecture and the procedures are discussed inSection 4.
The evaluation metrics used for eva-luating the system are discussed in Section 5.Experimental results are presented in Section 6and conclusions are drawn in Section 7.2 Related WorkThe works on MWE identification and extrac-tion have been continuing in English (Fillmore,2003; Sag et.
al, 2002).
After tokenization, mul-tiword expressions are important in understand-ing the meaning in applications like MachineTranslation, Information Retrieval system etc.Some of the MWE extraction tasks in Englishcan be seen in (Diab and Bhutada, 2009; Enivreand Nilson, 2004).
Among Indian languages,Hindi compound noun MWE extraction has beenstudied in (Kunchukuttan and Damani, 2008).Manipuri reduplicated MWE identification isdiscussed in (Nongmeikapam and Bandyop-adhyay, 2010).
There are no published works onreduplicated MWE identification in Bengali.3 Reduplication of Words in BengaliIdentification of MWEs is done during the to-kenization phase and is absolutely necessary73during POS tagging as is outlined in (Thoudamand Bandyopadhyay, 2008).
POS tagger identi-fies MWE as unknown word at token level.Bengali Shallow Parser 1  can only identify hy-phened reduplication and gives them separatetags like RDP (reduplication) or ECH (echo).Another objective for identifying reduplicatedMWEs is to extract correct sense of reduplicatedMWEs as discussed in Section 3.2.
Sometime,reduplication is used for sentiment marking toidentify whether the speaker uses it in positive ornegative sense.
For example,(i) Eto Bara Bara Asha Kisher?
(Why are youthinking so high?)
(Positive Sense)(ii) Ki Bara Bara Bari Ekhane!
(Here, thebuildings are very large.)
(Negative Sense)3.1 Expression Level Classification of Redu-plicationFour classes of reduplications commonly occurin the Indian language (Bengali, Hindi, Tamil2,Manipuri etc.).
In Bengali, another type calledcorrelated word is also classified as reduplica-tion.Onomatopoeic expressions: Such words rep-resent an imitation of a particular sound or imita-tion of an action along with the sound, etc.
Forexample, khat khat, (knock knock).Complete Reduplication: The individualwords carry certain meaning, and they are re-peated.
e.g.
bara-bara (big big), dheere dheere,slowly).
In some cases, both the speaker and thelistener repeat certain clauses or phrases in longutterances or narrations.
The repetition of suchutterances breaks the monotony of the narration,allows a pause for the listener to comprehend thesituation, and also provides an opportunity to thespeaker to change the style of narration.Partial Reduplication: Only one of thewords is meaningful, while the second word isconstructed by partially reduplicating the firstword.
Most common type in Bengali is onewhere the first letter or the associated matra orboth is changed, e.g.
thakur-thukur (God),boka-soka ( Foolish) etc.Semantic Reduplication: The most commonforms of semantic relations between pairedwords are synonym (matha-mundu, head), an-1 http://ltrc.iiit.ac.in/analyzer/bengali2 http://users.ox.ac.uk/~sjoh0535/thesis.htmltonym (din-rat, day and night), class representa-tive (cha-paani, snacks)).Correlative Reduplication: To express asense of exchange or barter or interchange, thestyle of corresponding correlative words is usedjust preceding the main root verb.
For example,maramari( fighting).3.2 Reduplication at the Sense LevelDifferent types of reduplication at the senselevel are described below:i.
Sense of repetition:Bachar Bachar Ek Kaj Kara .
( Do the same job every year.)ii.
Sense of plurality:Ki Bara Bara Bari Ekhane.
(Here, the houses are very large.)iii.
Sense of Emphatic or Modifying Meaning:Lala-Lala phul.
(Deep red rose)iv.
Sense of completion:Kheye Deye Ami Shute Jaba.After eating, I shall go to sleep.v.
Sense of hesitation or softness:Eta Hasi Hasi Mukh Kena?Why does your face smiling?vi.
Sense of incompleteness of the verbs:Katha Bolte Bolte Hatat Se Chup Kore Gelo.Talking about something, suddenly hestopped.vii.
Sense of corresponding correlative words:Nijera  Maramari Kara  Na.Don?t fight among yourselves.viii.
Sense of Onomatopoeia:Shyamal Darja Khata khata Karchhe .Shyamal is knocking at the door.4 System DesignThe system is designed in two phases.
The firstphase identifies mainly five cases of reduplica-tion discussed in Section 3.1 and the secondphase attempts to extract the associated sense orsemantics discussed in Section 3.2.4.1 Identifying ReduplicationsReduplication is considered as two consecutivewords W1 and W2.
For complete reduplica-tion, after removing matra, comparison for com-plete equality of two words is checked.74In partial reduplication, three cases are pos-sible- (i) change of the first vowel or the matraattached with first consonant, (ii) change of con-sonant itself in first position or (iii) change ofboth matra and consonant.
Exception is reportedwhere vowel in first position is changed to con-sonant and its corresponding matra is added.
Forexample, ???-????
(abal-tabal, incoherent orirrelevant).
Linguistic study (Chattopadhyay,1992) reveals that the consonants that can beproduced after changing are ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?.For onomatopoeic expression, mainly wordsare repeated twice and may be with some matra(mainly ?e?-matra is added with the first word tomake second word).
In this case, after removinginflection, words are divided equally and thenthe comparison is done.For correlative reduplication, the formativeaffixes ????
and ?-i?
are added with the root toform w1 and w2 respectively and agglutinatedtogether to make a single word.For semantic reduplication, a dictionarybased approach has been taken.
List of inflec-tions identified for the semantic reduplication isshown in Table 1.Set of identified inflections and matra0(??
?
), e(-?
, -?
), -?
(-e??
), -?
, ?
(-e??
), -?, -e?(?
?
), e?
?, -?
?,  -?
?, -?, -??
??
, -o, -i,Table 1.
Inflections identified for semantic redu-plication.This system has identified those consecutivewords having same part-of-speech.
Then, mor-phological analysis has been done to identify theroots of both components.
In synonymous redu-plication, w2 is the synonym of w1.
So, at firstin Bengali monolingual dictionary, the entry ofw1 is searched to have any existence of w2.
Forantonym words, they are mainly gradable oppo-site (pap-purna, Vice and Virtue) where theword and its antonyms are entirely differentword forms.
The productive opposites (garraji,disagree is the opposite of raji, agree) are easyto identify because the opposite word is gener-ated by adding some fixed number of prefixes orsuffixes with the original.
In dictionary basedapproach, English meaning of both w1 and w2are extracted and opposite of w1 is searched inEnglish WordNet3 for any entry of w2.
The firstmodel for identifying the five types of reduplica-tions is shown in Figure 1.Figure 1.
System Architecture of first phase.4.2 Semantics (Sense) AnalysisMainly eight types of semantic classificationsare identified in Section 3.2.
If the reduplicationis an onomatopoeic expression, its sense is easilyidentified as the sense of onomatopoeia.
Wheninfinite verb with complete reduplication is iden-tified in a sentence, it obviously expresses thesense of incompleteness.
The semantic or partialreduplicated words belong to the sense of com-pletion.
The correlative word is classified as thesense of corresponding correlative word becauseit is generally associated with the full verb in thesentence.
The problem arises when grouping thecomplete reduplication.
Sometime they are usedas sense of repetition, plurality and sometimethey express some kind of hesitation, incom-pleteness or softness.
Sense disambiguation forthis case has been identified as a future work.5 Evaluation MetricsThe corpus is collected from some selected arti-cles of Rabindranath Tagore4.
Standard IR met-rics like Precision, Recall and F-score are usedto evaluate the system.
Total number of relevant3 http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn4 http://www.rabindra-rachanabali.nltr.org75reduplication is identified manually.
For eachtype of expression level classification, Precision,Recall and F-score are calculated separately.
Theoverall system score is the average of thesescores.
Statistical co-occurrence measures likefrequency, hyphen and closed form count arecalculated on each of the types as an evidence oftheir MWEhood.6 Experimental ResultsThe collected corpus includes 14,810 tokens for3675 distinct word forms at the root level.
Pre-cision, Recall, F-score are calculated for eachclass as well as for the reduplication identifica-tion system and are shown in Table 2.Reduplications Precision Recall F-ScoreOnomatopoeic 99.85 99.77 99.79Complete 99.98 99.92 99.95Partial 79.15 75.80 77.44Semantic 85.20 82.26 83.71Correlative 99.91 99.73 99.82System 92.82 91.50 92.15Table 2.
Evaluation results for various reduplica-tions (in %).The scores of partial and semantic evaluationare not satisfactory because of some wrong tag-ging by the shallow parser (adjective, adverb andnoun are mainly interchanged).
Some synony-mous reduplication (????-??
?
?, dhire-susthe,slowly and steadily, leisurely) implies somesense of the previous word but not its exactsynonym.
These words are not identified prop-erly.
Figure 2 shows that the use of completereduplication is more in this corpus.
In this cor-pus, only 8.52% reduplications are hyphened.
Itshows that the trend of writing reduplications isto use the space as separator.
Also the percent-age of closed reduplications is 33.09% wheremaximum of them are onomatopoeic, correlativeand semantic reduplications.
100% of correlativereduplications are closed.7 ConclusionThe reduplication phenomenon has been studiedfor Bengali at the expression as well as at thesemantic levels.
The semantics of the redupli-cated words indicate some sort of sense disam-biguation that cannot be handled by only rule-based approach.
More works need to be done foridentifying semantic reduplication using statisti-cal and morphological approaches.8.5151.0626.612.718.08 OnomatopoeicCompletePartialSemanticCorrelativeFigure 2.
Frequencies (in %) of different redu-plications.ReferencesBhaskararao, Peri.
1977.
Reduplication and Ono-matopoeia in Telugu.
Deccan College Post-Graduate and research Institute, Pune, India.Chattopadhyay Suniti Kumar.
1992.
Bhasa-PrakashBangala Vyakaran, Third Edition.Diab, Mona and Pravin Bhutada.
2009.
Verb NounConstruction MWE Token Supervised Classifica-tion, In Proceedings of the Joint conference of As-sociation for Computational Linguistics and  In-ternational Joint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing, Workshop on Multiword Expression.,Singapore,   pp.17-22.Enivre, Joakim and Jens Nilson.
2004.
MultiwordUnits in Syntactic Parsing.
In Proceedings of Me-thodologies and Evaluation of Multiword Units inReal-World Applications, 2004 Workshop, Lisbon,pp.
39-46.Kunchukuttan, Anoop and Om Prakash Damani,2008.
A System for Compound Noun MultiwordExpression Extraction for Hindi.
6th International.Conference on Natural Language Processing,Pune, pp.
20-29.Nongmeikapam, Kishorjit and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.2010.
Identification of Reduplication MWEs inManipuri, a rule-based approach, In Proceedingsof the 23rd International Conference on the Com-puter Processing of Oriental Languages, Califor-nia, USA, pp.
49-54.Thoudam, Doren Singh and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.2008.
Morphology Driven Manipuri POS Tagger.In workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Lan-guages, International Joint conference of NaturalLanguage Processing, Hyderabad, pp.
91-9876
