A Multi-stage Clustering Framework for Chinese PersonalName DisambiguationHuizhen Wang, Haibo Ding, Yingchao Shi, Ji Ma,  Xiao Zhou, Jingbo ZhuNatural Language Processing Laboratory,Northeatern UniversityShenyang, Liaoning, China{wanghuizhen|zhujingbo@mail.neu.edu.cn{dinghb|shiyc|maji}@mail.neu.edu.cnAbstractThis paper presents our systems for theparticipation of Chinese Personal NameDisambiguation task in the CIPS-SIGHAN 2010.
We submitted two dif-ferent systems for this task, and both ofthem all achieve the best performance.This paper introduces the multi-stageclustering framework and some keytechniques used in our systems, anddemonstrates experimental results onevaluation data.
Finally, we further dis-cuss some interesting issues found dur-ing the development of the system.1 IntroductionPersonal name disambiguation (PND) is veryimportant for web search and potentially othernatural language applications such as questionanswering.
CIPS-SIGHAN bakeoffs provide aplatform to evaluate the effectiveness of variousmethods on Chinese PND task.Different from English PND, word segmenta-tion techniques are needed for Chinese PNDtasks.
In practice, person names are highly am-biguous because different people may have thesame name, and the same name can be writtenin different ways.
It?s an n-to-n mapping of per-son names to the specific people.
There are twomain challenges on Chinese PND: the first oneis how to correctly recognize personal names inthe text, and the other is how to distinguish dif-ferent persons who have the same name.
Foraddress these challenges, we designed a rule-based combination technique to improve NERperformance and propose a multi-stage cluster-ing framework for Chinese PND.
We partici-pated in the bakeoff of the Chinese PND task,on the test set and the diagnosis test set, our twosystems are ranked at the 1st and 2nd position.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.In Section 2, we first give the key features andtechniques used in our two systems.
In Section3, experimental results on the evaluation testdata demonstrated that our methods are effec-tive to disambiguate the personal name, anddiscussions on some issues we found during thedevelopment of the system are given.
In Section4, we conclude our work.2 System DescriptionIn this section, we describe the framework ofour systems in more detail, involving data pre-processing, discard-class document identifica-tion, feature definition, clustering algorithms,and sub-system combination.2.1 Data PreprocessingThere are around 100-300 news articles per per-sonal name in the evaluation corpus.
Each arti-cle is stored in the form of XML and encoded inUTF-8.
At first, each news article should bepreprocessed as follows: Use a publicly available Chinese encodingConverter tool to convert each news articlefrom UTF-8 coding into GB1; Remove all XML tags; Process Chinese word segmentation, part-of-speech (POS) tagging and name entityrecognition (NER);The performance of word segmentation andNER tools generally affect the effectiveness ofour Chinese PND systems.
During system de-1http://www.mandarintools.com/veloping process, we found that the publiclyavailable NER systems obtain unsatisfactoryperformance on evaluation data.
To address thischallenge, we propose a new rule-based combi-nation technique to improve NER performance.In our combination framework, two differentNER systems are utilized, including a CRF-based NER system and our laboratory?s NERsystem (Yao et al,2002).
The latter was imple-mented based on the maximum matching prin-ciple and some linguistic post-preprocessingrules.
Since both two NER systems adopt dif-ferent technical frameworks, it is possible toachieve a better performance by means of sys-tem combination techniques.The basic idea of our combination method isto first simply combine the results produced byboth NER systems, and further utilize someheuristic post-processing rules to refine NEidentification results.
To achieve this goal, wefirst investigate error types caused by both NERsystems, and design some post-preprocessingrules to correct errors or select the appropriateNER results from disagreements.
Notice thatsuch rules are learned from sample data (i.e.,training set), not from test set.
Experimentalresults demonstrate satisfactory NER perform-ance by introducing these heuristic refinementrules as follows: Conjunction Rules.
Two NEs separatedby a conjunction (such as ???,???,???,??? )
belong to the same type, e.g., ???/adj.?/???/person?.
Such a conjunc-tion rule can help NER systems make aconsistent prediction on both NEs, e.g., ???/person?
and ??
?/person?. Professional Title Rules.
Professional titlewords such as ????
are strong indicatorsof person names, e.g., ???/???.
Such arule can be written in the form of ?profes-sional_title+person_name?. Suffix Rules.
If an identified person nameis followed by a suffix of another type ofnamed entities such as location, it is not atrue person name, for example, ???????
?/person ?/?/???.
Since ???
isa suffix of a location name.
???????
?/person ?/location-suffix?
should berevised to be a new location name, namely????????
?/location?. Foreign Person Name Rules.
Two identi-fied person names connected by a dot aremerged into a single foreign person name,e.g., ??/./????
=> ??.???
? Chinese Surname Rules.
Surnames arevery important for Chinese person nameidentification.
However, some commonsurnames can be single words dependingupon the context, for example, the Chineseword ???
can be either a surname or aquantifier.
To tackle this problem, somepost-processing rules for ?
?, ?, ?, ?,??
are designed in our system. Query-Dependent Rules.
Given a queryperson name A, if the string AB occurringin the current document has been identifiedas a single person name many times inother documents, our system would tend tosegment AB as a single person name ratherthan as A/B.
For example, if ?????
wasidentified as a true person name more thanone time in other documents, in such a case,???/??/?/?
?/?=> ???/???/person?
?/?Incorporating these above post-processingrules, our NER system based on heuristic post-processing rules shows 98.89% precision ofNER on training set.2.2 Discard-Class Document IdentificationSeen from evaluation data, there are a lot ofdocuments belonging to a specific class, re-ferred to as discard-class.
In the discard-class,the query person name occurring in the docu-ment is not a true person name.
For example, aquery word ????
is a famous ocean name nota person name in the sentence ??????????????????????.
In such acase, the corresponding document is consideredas discard-class.
Along this line, actually thediscard-class document identification is verysimple task.
If a document does not contain atrue person name that is the same as the queryor contains the query, it is a discard-classdocument.2.3 Feature DefinitionTo identify different types of person name andfor the PND purpose, some effective binary fea-tures are defined to construct the document rep-resentation as feature vectors as follows: Personal attributes: involving profes-sional title, affiliation, location, co-occurrence person name and organizationrelated to the given query. NE-type Features: collecting all NEs oc-curring in the context of the given query.There are two kinds of NE-type featuresused in our systems, local features andglobal features.
The global features are de-fined with respect to the whole documentwhile the local features are extracted onlyfrom the two or three adjacent sentencesfor the given query. BOW-type features: constructing the con-text feature vector based on bag-of-wordmodel.
Similarly, there are local and globalBOW-type features with respect to the con-text considered.2.4 A Multi-stage Clustering FrameworkSeen from the training set, 36% of personnames indicate journalists, 10% are sportsmen,and the remaining are common person names.Based on such observations, it is necessary toutilize different methodology to PND on differ-ent types of person names, for example, becausethe most effective information to distinguishdifferent journalists are the reports?
location andcolleagues, instead of the whole document con-tent.
To achieve a satisfactory PND perform-ance, in our system we design three differentmodules for analyzing journalist, sportsman andcommon person name, respectively.2.4.1 PND on the Journalist ClassIn our system, some regular expressions aredesigned to determine whether a person name isa journalist or not.
For example: ???
/ni */ns */t */t ??
|?
/n (/w .
*[?/w */ni ?/w ]* query name/nh .
*)/w (/w .
*query name/nh .
*)/w [*/nh]* query name/nh [*/nh] ?
?
| ?
?
/n [*/nh]* query name/nh[*/nh]*To disambiguate on the journalist class, oursystem utilizes a rule-based clustering techniquedistinguish different journalists.
For eachdocument containing the query person name asjournalists, we first extract the organization andthe location occurring in the local context of thequery.
Two such documents can be put into thesame cluster if they contain the same organiza-tion or location names, otherwise not.
In oursystem, a location dictionary containing prov-ince-city information extracted from Wikipediais used to identify location name.
For example:???
(??
??
??
??
?
), ??(???
??
???
??
???).
Based on thisdictionary, it is very easy to map a city to itscorresponding province.2.4.2 PND on the Sportsman ClassLike done in PND on the journalist class, wealso use rule-based clustering techniques fordisambiguating sportsman class.
The major dif-ference is to utilize topic features for PND onthe sportsman class.
If the topic of the givendocument is sports, this document can be con-sidered as sportsman class.
The key is to how toautomatically identify the topic of the documentcontaining the query.
To address this challenge,we adopt a domain knowledge based techniquefor document topic identification.
The basicidea is to utilize a domain knowledge dictionaryNEUKD developed by our lab, which containsmore than 600,000 domain associated terms andthe corresponding domain features.
Some do-main associated terms defined in NEUKD areshown in Table 1.Domain associated term Domain feature concept???
(football team) Football, Sports????
(cycling team) Traffic, Sports, cycling????
(Chinese chess) Sports, Chinese chess??
(white side) Sports, the game of go?????
(Chicago bulls) Sports, basketballTable 1: Six examples defined in the NEUKDIn the domain knowledge based topic identi-fication algorithm, all domain associated termsoccurring in the given document are firstmapped into domain features such as football,basketball or cycling.
The most frequent do-main feature is considered as the most likelytopic.
See Zhu and Chen (2005) for details.Two documents with the same topic can begrouped into the same cluster.Table 2: Examples of PND on Sportsman Class2.4.3 Multi-Stage Clustering FrameworkWe proposed a multi-stage clustering frame-work for PND on common person name class,as shown In Figure 1.In the multi-stage clustering framework, thefirst-stage is to adopt strict rule-based hard clus-tering algorithm using the feature set of per-sonal attributes.
The second-stage is to imple-ment constrained hierarchical agglomerativeclustering using NE-type local features.
Thethird-stage is to design hierarchical agglomera-tive clustering using BOW-type global features.By combining those above techniques, we sub-mitted the first system named NEU_1.2.4.4 The second systemBesides, we also submitted another PND systemnamed NEU_2 by using the single-link hierar-chical agglomerative clustering algorithm inwhich the distance of two clusters is the cosinesimilarity of their most similar members (Ma-saki et al, 2009, Duda et al, 2004).
The differ-ence between our two submission systemsNEU_1 and NEU_2 is the feature weightingmethod.
The motivation of feature weightingmethod used in NEU_2 is to assume that wordssurrounding the query person name in the givendocument are more important features thanthose far away from it, and person name andlocation names occurring in the context aremore discriminative features than commonwords for PND purpose.
Along this line, in thefeature weighting scheme used in NEU_2, foreach feature extracted from the sentence con-taining the query person name, the weight of aword-type feature with the POS of ?ns?, ?ni?or ?nh ?
is assigned  as 3, Otherwise 1.5; Forthe features extracted from other sentences, theweight of a word with the POS of ?ns?or ?nh ?is set to be 2, the ones of ?ni?
POS is set to 1.5,otherwise 1.0.Algorithm 1: Multi-stage Clustering FrameworkInput: a person name pn, and its related documentset D={d1, d2, ?, dm} in which each document dicontains the person name pn;Output: clustering results C={C1,C2, ?,Cn}, whereCCi =?iand ?=?
ji CCFor each di?D doSi = {s|pn?s, s?di};ORGi={t|t?s, s?Si, POS(t)= ni};PERi={t|t?s, s?Si, POS(t)=nh} ;Ldi = {t|t?s, s?Si }; //local feature setGdi = {t|t?di}; //global feature setCi = {di} ;End forStage 1: Strict rules-based clusteringBeginFor each Ci ?
C doIf ???
ji ORGORG or2??
ji PERPERThen Ci = Ci ?Cj;ORGi = ORGi?ORGj ;PERi = PERi?PERj ;Remove Cj from C ;End forEndStage 2: Constrained hierarchical agglomerativeclustering algorithm using local featuresBeginSet each c ?C as an initial cluster;do),(maxarg],[,jiCCCji CCsimCCji ?=),cos(max),(max),(,,yxjyixjyixddCdCdyxCdCdjiLLddsimCCsim???
?==Ci = Ci ?Cj;Remove Cj from C ;until  sim(Ci,Cj) < ?.EndStage 3: Constrained hierarchical agglomerativeclustering algorithm using global features, i.e., util-ize the same algorithm used in stage 2 by consider-ing the global feature set G for cosine-based similar-ity calculation instead of the local feature set L.Figure 1: Multi-stage Clustering FrameworkPerson name Document no.
sports??
081 ????
094 ????
098 ????
100 ?
?2.5 Final Result GenerationAs discussed above, there are many modules forPND on Chinese person name.
In our NEU_1,the final results are produced by combiningoutputs of discard-class document clustering,journalist-class clustering, sportsman-classclustering and multi-stage clustering modules.In NEU-2 system, the outputs of discard-classdocument clustering, journalist-class clustering,sportsman-class clustering and single-linkclustering modules are combined to generatethe final results.3 Evaluation3.1 Experimental Settings Training data: containing about 30 Chineseperson names, and a set of about 100-300news articles are provided for each personname. Test data: similar to the training data, andcontaining 26 unseen Chinese personalnames, provided by the SIGHAN organizer. Performance evaluation metrics (Artiles etal., 2009): B_Cubed and P_IP metrics.3.2 ResultsTable 3 shows the performance of our twosubmission systems NEU_1 and NEU_2 on thetest set of Sighan2010 Chinese personal namedisambiguation task.B_Cubed P_IP SystemNo.
P R F P IP FNEU_1 95.76 88.37 91.47 96.99 92.58 94.56NEU_2 95.08 88.62 91.15 96.73 92.73 94.46Table 3: Results on the test dataNEU-1 system was implemented by themulti-stage clustering framework that uses sin-gle-link clustering method.
In this framework,there are two threshold parameters ?
and ?.Both threshold parameters are tuned from train-ing data sets.After the formal evaluation, the organizerprovided a diagnosis test designed to explorethe relationship between Chinese word segmen-tation and personal name disambiguation.
In thediagnosis test, the personal name disambigua-tion task was simplified and limited to thedocuments in which the personal name istagged correctly.
The performance of our twosystems on the diagnosis test set of Sighan2010Chinese personal name disambiguation task areshown in Table 4.B_Cubed P_IP Systemno.
P R F  P IP FNEU_1 95.6 89.74 92.14 96.83 93.62 95.03NEU_2 94.53 89.99 91.66 96.41 93.8 94.9Table 4: Results of the diagnosis test on testdataAs shown in the Table 3 and Table 4, NEU-1system achieves the highest precision and Fvalues on the test data and the diagnosis testdata.3.3 DiscussionWe propose a multi-stage clustering frameworkfor Chinese personal name disambiguation.
Theevaluation results demonstrate that the featuresand key techniques our systems adopt are effec-tive.
Our systems achieve the best performancein this competition.
However, our recall valuesare not unsatisfactory.
In such a case, there isstill much room for improvement.
Observedfrom experimental results, some interesting is-sues are worth being discussed and addressed inour future work as follows:(1) For PND on some personal names, thedocument topic information seems not effective.For example, the personal name "??
(GuoHua)" in training set represent one shooter andone billiards player.
The PND system based ontraditional clustering method can not effectivelywork in such a case due to the same sports topic.To solve this problem, one solution is to suffi-ciently combine the personal attributes anddocument topic information for PND on thisperson name.
(2) For the journalist-class personal names,global BOW-type features are not effective inthis case as different persons can report on thesame or similar events.
For example, there arefour different journalists named ????(ZhuJianjun)?
in the training set, involving differentlocations such as Beijing, Zhengzhou, Xining orGuangzhou.
We can distinguish them in termsof the location they are working in.
(3) We found that some documents in thetraining set only contain lists of news title andthe news reporter.
In this case, we can not dis-criminate the persons with respect to the loca-tion of entire news.
It?s worth studying someeffective solution to address this challenge inour future work.
(4) Seen from the experimental results, somepersonal names such as ???
(Li gang)?
arewrong identified because this person is associ-ated with multiple professional titles and affili-ates.
In this case, the use of exact matchingmethods can not yield satisfactory results.
Forexample, the query name ???
(Li gang)?
inthe documents 274 and 275 is the president of???????????
(China InternationalCulture Association)?
while in the documents202, 225 and 228, he is the director of ???????????
(Bureau of External CulturalRelations of Chinese Ministry of Culture)?.
Togroup both cases into the same cluster, it?sworth mining the relations and underlying se-mantic relations between entities to achieve thisgoal.4 ConclusionThis paper presents our two Chinese personalname disambiguation systems in which variousconstrained hierarchical agglomerative cluster-ing algorithms using local or global features areadopted.
The bakeoff results show that our sys-tems achieve the best performance.
In the future,we will pay more attention on the personal at-tribute extraction and unsupervised learningapproaches for Chinese personal name disam-biguation.5 AcknowledgementsThis work was supported in part by the NationalScience Foundation of China (60873091) andthe Fundamental Research Funds for the Cen-tral Universities.ReferencesArtiles, Javier, Julio Gonzalo and Satoshi Sekine.2009.
?WePS 2 Evaluation Campaign: overview ofthe Web People Search Clustering Task,?
In 2ndWeb People Search Evaluation Workshop (WePS2009), 18th WWW Conference.Duda, Richard O., Peter E.Hart, and David G.Stork.2004.
Pattern Classification.
China Machine Press.Masaki, Ikeda, Shingo Ono, Issei Sato, Minoru Yo-shida, and Hiroshi Nakagawa.
2009.
Person NameDisambiguation on the Web by TwoStage Clustering.In 2nd Web People Search Evaluation Workshop(WePS 2009), 18th WWW Conference.Yao, Tianshun, Zhu Jingbo , Zhang Li, Yang Ying.Nov.
2002.
Natural Language Processing , SecondEdition, Tsinghua press.Zhu, Jingbo and Wenliang Chen.
2005.
Some Stud-ies on Chinese Domain Knowledge Dictionary andIts Application to Text Classification.
In Proc.
ofSIGHAN4.
