Proceedings of the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, ACL 2010, pages 118?122,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsCharacteristics of high agreement affect annotation in textCecilia Ovesdotter AlmCornell University, USAcissioalm@gmail.comAbstractThe purpose of this paper is to present anunusual English dataset for affect explo-ration in text.
It describes a corpus of fairytales from three sources that have beenannotated for affect at the sentence level.Special attention is given to data markedby high annotator agreement.
A quali-tative analysis of characteristics of highagreement sentences from H. C. Ander-sen reveals several interesting trends, illus-trated by examples.1 IntroductionMeaning is essential to language.
The impor-tance of expressive, attitudinal/emotive, or so-cial/interpersonal meaning has been noted byprominent linguists (Bu?hler, 1934; Lyons, 1977;Jakobson, 1996; Halliday, 1996).
However, affectis still an understudied phenomenon in linguistics,although many affective computing applicationsactually apply to language (Picard, 1997).The motivation behind this discussion is tobring a special and rather unique dataset to theattention of reseachers in the field of natural lan-guage processing, affective computing, and re-lated areas.
This paper discusses affect represen-tation, presents an affect dataset, and then focuseson clear-cut cases of affective meaning and expres-sion in text with a summary of an analysis of datafor which human annotators highly agreed on theassignment of affect labels.
For dataset results insupervised classification (including experimenta-tion on high agreement data), cf.
Alm (2009).12 Affect representationAffect can be modeled, e.g.
as categories (Ek-man, 1994), dimensions (Osgood, 1969), by fo-1For details on this dataset and experimentation con-ducted with it, readers should consult my book (Alm, 2009),which exceeds this paper in scope and depth.cus on appraisal (Ortony et al 1988), or on ex-perience of physical and bodily responses (Cor-nelius, 2000).
There is a lack of consensus on amodel of affect (Picard, 1997; Scherer, 2003) andcontroversy surrounds such modeling.
Pragmati-cally, different views of affect complement eachother and jointly create a basis for understandingaffective language phenomena.
Affect modelingdecisions are arguably application dependent.
Fora detailed literature review on previous work onhow to characterize affect, affect in text-based lin-guistics and in subjective NLP or speech technol-ogy, and tales and oral narratives, see Alm (2009).Also see http://emotion-research.net/.Resulting originally from an interest in textanalysis for child-directed expressive text-to-speech synthesis, this dataset relies on a categor-ical annotation scheme of basic emotions; a modelsupported by the compelling observation that emo-tive facial expressions were cross-culturally rec-ognized well above chance (Ekman and Friesen,1998).
In vision and speech research ?the BigSix?
(Cornelius, 2000) (i.e.
happiness, fear, anger,surprise, disgust, and sadness) appear quite often.Nevertheless, the Ekmanian view remains contro-versial.
For instance, Russel and Ferna?ndez-Dols(1998) have critiqued the relevance, methods, andrigor of the ?Facial Expression Program?
for emo-tion.
One alternative is free labeling (i.e.
anno-tators may come up with their own labels), butthat may result in impractical, large label sets.
Astudy grouping items from open-ended responsesto a perception test on characterizing certain fairytale sentences noted that although other cases oc-curred, Big Six emotions were frequent in answers(Brale` et al 2005).As regards the dataset?s use of affect cate-gories, several empirical studies have shown abovechance performance for recognition of categoricalemotions in classification tasks involving prosody.Categorical labels may be more straightforward118for annotators to conceptualize compared to di-mensional scales, as participants pointed out in astudy (Francisco and Gervas, 2006).
Also, cate-gories are arguably suitable for pedagogy, and theynaturally fit computational classification.
A basicaffect category is also broad enough to span re-lated affect states, e.g.
the emotion family (Ek-man, 1994) of angry could also cover conceptssuch as irritated, annoyed and enraged.2 Finally,the foundational nature of basic, categorical af-fects intuitively seems to fit a child-directed con-text and fairy tales contents, which may includecertain canonical topics and behaviors, comparedto more spontaneous discourse.33 Corpus data overviewThe affect dataset consists of 176 stories (morethan 15,000 sentences) by Beatrix Potter, theBrothers Grimm and H. C. Andersen, manuallyannotated at the sentence level by pairs of annota-tors.4 For the annotation process, annotators readtales and had to make a choice from a set of affectcategories for sentences.
Each sentence was givenfour affect labels since each of two annotators as-signed both a primary emotion (guided by the pre-cence of a feeler, mostly a character or charactertype in the text) and a background mood to a sen-tence.
The four labels were then combined into asentence?s affect labels.
For more details on theannotation process, cf.
(Alm, 2009).
The label setconsisted of a set of categorical affect labels.
Priorto the analysis below, ANGRY and DISGUSTEDwere merged (motivated by data sparsity and re-lated semantics) into one category, as were POSI-TIVELY and NEGATIVELY SURPRISED, yielding amerged set of affect labels: ANGRY-DISGUSTED,FEARFUL, HAPPY, NEUTRAL, SAD, SURPRISED.Interannotator agreement can be an artifact ofannotation scheme and procedure.
For exam-ple, pairs might be trained to annotate similarly,across-the-board rules (e.g.
questions are nega-tive) might ignore subtle decisions, or problem-atic items might be removed.
Such approachesmay yield higher agreement, cleaner data, andperhaps better performance and more consistent2Categories do not exclude adding intensity for approxi-mating an arousal dimension, arguably relevant for speech.3Naturally, tales also encompass narrative complexity.4The annotated data are available at the author?s website(both the full dataset and the high agreement subsets).
For in-stance, for the high agree affect data, a storyname is followedby its corresponding high agree affective sentences in the fol-lowing format: sentence-id-in-story@label-code@sentence.Figure 1: (Dis)agreement: merged labelstrained applications.
But, the relevance of thatfor study of linguistic behavior is less clear.
Za-enen (2006) noted that ?
[f]or interannotator agree-ment, it suffices that all annotators do the samething.
But even with full annotator agreement itis not sure that the task captures what was origi-nally intended?
(577); this should not be confusedwith understanding a linguistic issue.
Fig.
1 re-ports on a diagnostic alternative with the ratios of(dis)agreement types.
This avoids the concept ofground truth, which may not hold for all languagephenomena.
Affect, which is highly subjective, isarguably better captured by flexible acceptability.5Fig.
1 shows that sentences only labeled NEU-TRAL were frequent, as were disagreements,which were more common for sentences markedboth with NEUTRAL and one or more affectclasses.
This parallels findings for polarity expres-sions in subjective texts (Wilson et al 2005), andshows that the border between affective and neu-tral is fuzzy.
(Affect perception lacks clear defini-tions and is subjective, and neutrality suffers fromthe same dilemma.)
A sentence with high agree-ment affect was defined as all four primary emo-tion and mood labels having the same affective la-bel (given the merged label set).
These were morecommon than mixed affective labels.4 High agreement in H. C. AndersenThis section examines the subset of high agree-ment sentences in the H. C. Andersen data froma qualitative-interpretive perspective.
The anal-ysis is not intended as rigid categorization, butrather to get an overall idea of why high agreementmight occur on affect labels across annotators.Isolated sentences were extracted and mostly ex-amined that way, rarely considering context.
This5Regular agreement scores for the corpus would be low.119Figure 2: Distribution of 460 H. C. Andersen highagreement affective sentences across affect labelsfocused the analytical scope.6 Five annotators en-gaged with the overall H. C. Andersen subcor-pus of 77 tales.
460 sentences were marked byaffective high agreement, given the five affectiveclasses.
The distribution of affective classes forthis subset is in Fig.
2, with HAPPY and SAD beingmost frequent.4.1 Characteristics: high agreement affectThe below overview lists characteristics observedin an analysis on the H. C. Andersen high agree-ment data.
It briefly describes each characteristicand lets an example illustrate it.
For more discus-sion, examples, word lists etc., see Alm (2009).The characteristics occur in some and not all sen-tences; some frequently, others more rarely.
Often,several jointly characterize a sentence.The illustrative sentence examples in this sec-tion use the following format: Affect labelsare in small caps and sentences are in italics.Also, phrases in bold-face illustrate the discussedcharacteristic, whereas phrases that annotatorsnoted are underlined (single underscore for non-overlapping vs. double underscore for overlap-ping mark-up), and their feeler/s for the primaryemotion annotation is/are included (with annotatorsubscripts to show if they had indicated the sameor not) in parenthesis in small caps.4.1.1 Affect wordsContent words that directly name an affectivestate (e.g.
reflecting a particular intensity) arecommon in high agreement sentences, cf.:6Annotators?
noted feeler and emotional/connotativephrases for the sentences were inspected.ANGRY-DISGUSTED: They buzzed roundthe prince and stung his face and hands;angrily he drew his sword and brandished it, buthe only touched the air and did not hit the gnats.
(VILLAIN1,2)That narration can directly announce affectivestates is an indication of the important narrativerole affect can play in stories.
Also, Wilson andWiebe (2003) interestingly noted that annotatorsagreed more strongly with strong subjective ex-pressions, which affect words are examples of.Some illustrative affect words from the examineddata are (for SURPRISED): alarmed, astonished,astonishment, shocked, shocking, startled, sur-prised.
Special cases include negation (e.g.
nothappy for SAD); figurative/idiomatic phrases (e.g.one of his heartstrings had broken for SAD); or ap-pearance with more than one affect (e.g.
anguishfor SAD or FEARFUL).4.1.2 Words for related/contrastive affectstatesExpressions in the sentential context naming re-lated or contrastive affective states not in the labelset (e.g.
dull, pride, relief, or shame) may also helpevoke a particular affect, as in:HAPPY: They looked at Little Claus ploughingwith his five horses, and he was so proud that hesmacked his whip, and said, ?Gee-up, my fivehorses.?
(HERO1,2)4.1.3 Affect related words or expressionsLexical items or phrases which describe actions,properties, behaviors, cognitive states, or objectsassociated with particular affects occur frequentlyin the examined high agreement subset, e.g.
as in:HAPPY: They laughed and they wept; and Peterembraced the old Fire-drum.
(HERO1, (TRUE)MOTHER2, (TRUE) FATHER2)Some more prominent affect related lexicalitems include weep, kiss, laugh, cry (= weep), andforms of pleasure, tears, and smile.
Expressionsof weeping or tears often appear with sadness, butmay also depict happiness.
Negations may occur.4.1.4 Polarity words and expressionsWords or expressions of positive or negative po-larity can help to set the scene with a particular af-fective mode, in particular with relation to contextand acquired knowledge.
Expressions of opposingpolarity may be used as a contrast, as in:HAPPY: It became a splendid flower-garden120to the sick boy, and his little treasure upon earth.
(SICK BOY1,2)Modifiers can intensify the affective load.
Lex-ical words and phrases may have permanent vs.occasional attitudinal meaning (Hedquist, 1978).4.1.5 Knowledge and human experienceReaders may from experience associate aquiredknowledge about situations, visualizations, andbehaviors with particular affects.
For example, itis common knowledge that starving is traumatic:SAD: He was hungry and thirsty, yet no one gavehim anything; and when it became dark, and theywere about to close the gardens, the porter turnedhim out.
(HERO1,2).Story worlds tend to involve canonical represen-tations of characters, actions, functions, situationsand objects.
Surrounding context can be impor-tant for affective interpretations.
Scenarios mayinclude, e.g.
an inspiration from weather, flow-ers, nature, or God; singing (or dancing, jump-ing); physical lack and need; sleep deprivationor allowance; addiction; incapability; unexpectedobservation; appearance/posture (or intonation);contextual guidance; or relate to marriage (see(Alm, 2009) for examples).
In fact, arguably mostdiscussed characteristics can be traced to acquiredknowledge, experience, associations, or context.4.1.6 Speech actsSpeech acts reflect a certain kind of communica-tive knowledge that can have affective meaning(such as cursing, insulting, commanding), e.g.
:ANGRY-DISGUSTED:Let her be expelled from the congregation and theChurch.
(VILLAIN1,2)4.1.7 Types of direct speechDirect speech may be used by characters in tales toexpress affect.
This might include speaking excit-edly, (WH)-exclamations or (WH)-questions, shortutterances, interjections (and sound effects), suchas ah, alas, hurrah, o God, sorry, thump, ugh.
Di-rect speech can be introduced by words of speak-ing, as in:FEARFUL: ?Mercy!?
cried Karen.
(HEROINE1,2)4.1.8 Mixed emotionsAffective high agreement sentences also includecases of mixed emotions, e.g.
affect or affect-related words referring to more than one affect.The ?winning?
affect may be inferred.
Contrastmight make it more prominent, as in:HAPPY (mixed SAD): He now felt glad athaving suffered sorrow and trouble, becauseit enabled him to enjoy so much better all thepleasure and happiness around him; for thegreat swans swam round the new-comer, andstroked his neck with their beaks, as a welcome.
(MAIN CHARACTER/HERO1,2)4.2 Tendencies of particular affect categoriesLastly, there may be trends for particular charac-teristics associating more or less with a particularaffect.
For example, in this subset, FEARFUL sen-tences seem often to contain affect or affect relatedwords, whereas SURPRISED sentences may quiteoften be characterized by various types of directspeech or involve unexpected observations.5 ConclusionThis paper brought attention to an affect dataset,and discussed (mostly surface) characteristics inits H. C. Andersen high agreement subset, il-lustrating the complexity of affect cues, withoutclaiming an exhaustive analysis.
It also tentativelyhypothesized that some characteristics may showparticular affinity with certain affects.The high agreement sentence data may be par-ticularly interesting for affect research, while otherparts of the annotated, larger corpus may revealinsights on affect variation in text and perceptionthereof (bearing in mind that the dataset is notnecessarily representative across domains and texttypes, nor of contemporary texts).Lastly, as noted above, developed knowledge,experience, associations, and context appear veryimportant for affect understanding.
This is alsoa substantial part of what makes the problem ofautomatically predicting affect from text so chal-lenging; it involves levels of deep cognitive under-standing rather than just extractable surface fea-tures.
Whereas the discussed characteristics nat-urally do not consistute the answer to affect un-derstanding, they may inform future search for it.Deep understanding and continuous, as opposedto static, computational development of affectiveunderstanding remain crucial areas of future workfor expressive NLP applications.AcknowledgmentsThanks to R. Sproat, R. Proan?o, and reviewers.Project funded by NSF (award ITR-#0205731).121ReferencesAlm, Cecilia Ovesdotter.
2009.
Affect in Text andSpeech.
VDM Verlag: Saarbrcken.Brale`, Ve?ronique, Vale?rie Maffiolo, Ioannis Kanellos,and Thierry Moudenc.
2005.
Towards an expres-sive typology in storytelling: A perceptive approach.In Jianhua Tao, Tieniu Tan, and Rosalind W.
Picard(Eds.
), Affective Computing and Intelligent Inter-action, First International Conference, ACII 2005,Beijing, China, October 22-24, 2005, Proceedings,858-865.Bu?hler, Karl.
1934.
Sprachtheorie: Die Darstellungs-funktion der Sprache.
Stuttgart: Gustav Fischer Ver-lag.Cahn, Janet E. 1990.
The generation of affect in syn-thesized speech.
Journal of the American Voice I/OSociety 8, 1-19.Cornelius, Randolph R. 2000.
Theoretical approachesto emotion.
In Proceedings of the ISCA Workshop onSpeech and Emotion, 3-10.Ekman, Paul.
1994.
All emotions are basic.
In P. Ek-man and R. J. Davidson (Eds.
), The Nature of Emo-tion: Fundamental Questions.
Oxford: Oxford Uni-versity Press, 15-19.Ekman, Paul and Wallace V. Friesen.
1998 [1971]Constants across culture in the face and emo-tion.
Jenkins, Jennifer M and Oatley, Keith andStein, Nancy L. (eds).
Human Emotions: A Reader.Malden, Massachussetts: Blackwell, 63-72.Francisco, Virginia and Pablo Gerva?s 2006.
Explor-ing the compositionality of emotions in text: Wordemotions, sentence emotions and automated tag-ging.
In AAAI-06 Workshop on Computational Aes-thetics: Artificial Intelligence Approaches to Beautyand Happiness.Halliday, Michael A. K. 1996.
Linguistic functionand literary style: An inquiry into the languageof William Golding?s The Inheritors.
Weber, JeanJacques (ed).
The Stylistics Reader: From RomanJakobson to the Present.
London: Arnold, 56-86.Hedquist, Rolf.
1978.
Emotivt spa?k: En studie idagstidningarnas ledare.
Ph.D. Thesis.
Umea?.Jakobson, Roman.
1996.
Closing statement: Lin-guistics and poetics.
Weber, Jean Jacques (ed).
TheStylistics Reader: From Roman Jakobson to thePresent.
London: Arnold, 10-35.Lyons, John.
1977.
Semantics volumes 1, 2.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Ortony, Andrew, Gerlad L. Clore, and Allan Collins.1988.
The Cognitive Structure of Emotions.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Osgood, Charles E. 1969.
On the whys and whereforesof E, P, and A.
Journal of Personality and SocialPsychology 12 (3), 194-199.Picard, Rosalind W. 1997.
Affective computing.
Cam-bridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press.Russell, James A. and Jose?
M. Ferna?ndez-Dols 1998[1997].
What does a facial expression mean?
Jenk-ins, Jennifer M and Oatley, Keith and Stein, NancyL.
(eds).
Human Emotions: A Reader.
Malden,Massachussetts: Blackwell, 63-72.Scherer, Klaus R. 2003.
Vocal communication of emo-tion: A review of research paradigms.
Speech Com-munication 40 (1-2), 227256.Wilson, Theresa, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoff-man.
2005.
Recognizing contextual polarity inphrase-level sentiment analysis.
Proceedings ofHLT/EMNLP, 347-354.Wilson, Theresa and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Annotatingopinions in the world press.
4th SigDial workshopon Discourse and Dialogue.Zaenen, Annie.
2006.
Mark-up barking up the wrongtree.
Journal of Computational Linguistics 32 (4),577-580.122
