Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL 2010, pages 19?27,Uppsala, Sweden, 15 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsEvent Extraction for Post-Translational ModificationsTomoko Ohta?
Sampo Pyysalo?
Makoto Miwa?
Jin-Dong Kim?
Jun?ichi Tsujii???
?Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan?School of Computer Science, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK?National Centre for Text Mining, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK{okap,smp,mmiwa,jdkim,tsujii}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractWe consider the task of automaticallyextracting post-translational modificationevents from biomedical scientific publica-tions.
Building on the success of eventextraction for phosphorylation events inthe BioNLP?09 shared task, we extend theevent annotation approach to four majornew post-transitional modification eventtypes.
We present a new targeted corpus of157 PubMed abstracts annotated for over1000 proteins and 400 post-translationalmodification events identifying the modi-fied proteins and sites.
Experiments witha state-of-the-art event extraction systemshow that the events can be extracted with52% precision and 36% recall (42% F-score), suggesting remaining challengesin the extraction of the events.
The an-notated corpus is freely available in theBioNLP?09 shared task format at the GE-NIA project homepage.11 IntroductionPost-translational-modifications (PTM), aminoacid modifications of proteins after translation, areone of the posterior processes of protein biosyn-thesis for many proteins, and they are criticalfor determining protein function such as its ac-tivity state, localization, turnover and interac-tions with other biomolecules (Mann and Jensen,2003).
Since PTM alter the properties of a pro-tein by attaching one or more biochemical func-tional groups to amino acids, understanding ofthe mechanism and effects of PTM are a majorgoal in the recent molecular biology, biomedicineand pharmacology fields.
In particular, epige-netic (?outside conventional genetics?)
regulation1http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIAof gene expression has a crucial role in these fieldsand PTM-like modifications of biomolecules are aburning issue.
For instance, tissue specific or con-text dependent expression of many proteins is nowknown to be controlled by specific PTM of his-tone proteins, such as Methylation and Acetylation(Jaenisch and Bird, 2003).
This Methylation andAcetylation of specific amino acid residues in his-tone proteins are strongly implicated in unwindingthe nucleosomes and exposing genes to transcrip-tion, replication and DNA repairing machinery.The recent BioNLP?09 Shared Task on EventExtraction (Kim et al, 2009a) (below, BioNLPshared task) represented the first community-widestep toward the extraction of fine-grained eventrepresentations of information from biomoleculardomain publications (Ananiadou et al, 2010).
Thenine event types targeted in the task included onePTM type, Phosphorylation, whose extraction in-volved identifying the modified protein and, whenstated, the specific phosphorylated site.
The re-sults of the shared task showed this PTM event tobe single most reliably extracted event type in thedata, with the best-performing system for the eventtype achieving 91% precision and 76% recall(83% F-score) in the extraction of phosphorylationevents (Buyko et al, 2009).
The results suggestboth that the event representation is well applica-ble to PTM and that current extraction methods arecapable of reliable PTM extraction.
Most of theproposed state-of-the-art methods for event extrac-tion are further largely machine-learning based.This suggest that the coverage of many existingmethods could be straightforwardly extended tonew event types and domains by extending thescope of available PTM annotations and retrain-ing the methods on newly annotated data.
In thisstudy, we take such an annotation-based approachto extend the extraction capabilities of state of theart event extraction methods for PTM.19Term CountPhosphorylation 172875 50.90%Methylation 49780 14.66%Glycosylation 36407 10.72%Hydroxylation 20141 5.93%Acetylation 18726 5.51%Esterification 7836 2.31%Ubiquitination 6747 1.99%ADP-ribosylation 5259 1.55%Biotinylation 4369 1.29%Sulfation 3722 1.10%.
.
.TOTAL 339646 100%Table 1: PTM mentions in PubMed.
The numberof citations returned by the PubMed search enginefor each PTM term shown together with the frac-tion of the total returned for all searches.
Searcheswere performed with the terms as shown, allow-ing MeSH term expansion and other optimizationsprovided by the Entrez search.2 Corpus AnnotationWe next discuss the selection of the annotatedPTM types and source texts and present the rep-resentation and criteria used in annotation.2.1 Event TypesA central challenge in the automatic extractionof PTMs following the relatively data-intensiveBioNLP shared task model is the sheer numberof different modifications: the number of knownPTM types is as high as 300 and constantly grow-ing (Witze et al, 2007).
Clearly, the creation ofa manually annotated resource with even mod-est coverage of statements of each of the typeswould be a formidable undertaking.
We nextpresent an analysis of PTM statement occurrencesin PubMed as the first step toward resolving thischallenge.We estimated the frequency of mentions ofprominent PTM types by combining MeSHontology2 PTM terms with terms occurringin the post-translational proteinmodification branch of the Gene Ontology(The Gene Ontology Consortium, 2000).
Afterremoving variants (e.g.
polyamination for amina-tion or dephosphorylation for phosphorylation)and two cases judged likely to occur frequently2http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/meshhome.htmlin non-PTM contexts (hydration and oxidation),we searched PubMed for the remaining 31 PTMtypes.
The results for the most frequent typesare shown in Table 1.
We find a power-law- like distribution with phosphorylation aloneaccounting for over 50% of the total, and the top6 types together for over 90%.
By contrast, thebottom ten types together represent less than apercent of total occurrences.This result implies that fair coverage of individ-ual PTM event mentions can be achieved withoutconsidering even dozens of different PTM eventtypes, let alne hundreds.
Thus, as a step towardextending the coverage of event extraction systemsfor PTM, we chose to focus limited resources onannotating a small selection of types so that a num-ber of annotations sufficient for supervised learn-ing and stable evaluation can be provided.
Tomaximize the utility of the created annotation, thetypes were selected based on their frequency of oc-currence.2.2 Text SelectionBiomedical domain corpora are frequently anno-tated from selections of texts chosen as a sampleof publications in a particular subdomain of inter-est.
While several areas in present-day molecu-lar biology are likely to provide ample source datafor PTM statements, a sample of articles from anysubdomain is unlikely to provide a well-balanceddistribution of event types: for example, the mostfrequent PTM event type annotated in the GENIAevent corpus occurs more than 10 times as oftenas the second most frequent (Kim et al, 2008).Further, avoiding explicit subdomain restrictionsis not alone sufficient to assure a balanced distri-bution of event types: in the BioInfer corpus, forwhich sentences were selected on the basis of theircontaining mentions of protein pairs known to in-teract, the most frequent PTM type is again anno-tated nearly four times as often as the second mostfrequent (Pyysalo et al, 2007).To focus annotation efforts on texts relevant toPTM and to guarantee that the annotation resultsin relatively balanced numbers of PTM events ofeach targeted type, we decided to annotate a tar-geted set of source texts instead of a random sam-ple of texts for a particular subdomain.
This typeof targeted annotation involves a risk of introduc-ing bias: a badly performed selection could pro-duce a corpus that is not representative of the20PTM type AB FTAcetylation 103 128Glycosylation 226 336Methylation 72 69Phosphorylation 186 76Hydroxylation 71 133Table 2: Number of abstracts (AB) and full-text ar-ticles (FT) tagged in PIR as containing PTM state-ments.statements expressing PTMs in text and thus poormaterial for either meaningful evaluation or fortraining methods with good generalization perfor-mance.3 To avoid such bias, we decided to baseour selection of the source texts on an indepen-dently annotated PTM resource with biological (asopposed to textual) criteria for inclusion.
Owingin part to the recent interest in PTMs, there arecurrently a wealth of resources providing differentlevels of annotation for PTMs.Here, we have chosen to base initial annotationon corpora provided by the Protein InformationResource4 (PIR) (Wu et al, 2003).
These corporacontain annotation for spans with evidence for fivedifferent PTM types (Table 2), corresponding tothe five PTMs found above to occur in PubMedwith the highest frequency.
A key feature settingthis resource apart from others we are aware of isthat it provides text-bound annotations identifyingthe statement by which a PTM record was made inthe context of the full publication abstracts.
Whilethis annotation is less specific and detailed thanthe full BioNLP shared task markup, it could bothserve as an initial seed for annotation and assurethat the annotation agrees with relevant databasecuration criteria.
The PIR corpora have also beenapplied in previous PTM extraction studies (e.g.
(Hu et al, 2005; Narayanaswamy et al, 2005)).We judged that the annotated Phosphorylationevents in the BioNLP shared task data providesufficient coverage for the extraction of this PTMtype, and chose to focus on producing annota-tion for the four other PTM types in the PIR data.As the high extraction performance for phospho-rylation events in the BioNLP shared task was3One could easily gather PTM-rich texts by performingprotein name tagging and searching for known patterns suchas ?
[PROTEIN] methylates [PROTEIN]?, but a corpus cre-ated in this way would not necessarily provide significantnovelty over the original search patterns.4http://pir.georgetown.eduProtein Site PTM Countcollagen lysine Hydroxylate 44myelin arginine Methylate 17M protein N-terminal Glycosylate 2EF-Tu lysine Methylate 1Actobindin NH2 terminus Acetylate 0Table 3: Example queried triples and match countsfrom Medie.achieved with annotated training data containing215 PTM events, in view of the available resourceswe set as an initial goal the annotation of 100events of each of the four PTM types.
To assurethat the annotated resource can be made publiclyavailable, we chose to use only the part of the PIRannotations that identified sections of PubMed ab-stracts, excluding full-text references and non-PubMed abstracts.
Together with the eliminationof duplicates and entries judged to fall outside ofthe event annotation criteria (see Section 2.4), thisreduced the number of source texts below our tar-get, necessitating a further selection strategy.For further annotation, we aimed to select ab-stracts that contain specific PTM statements iden-tifying both the name of a modified protein and themodified site.
As for the initial selection, we fur-ther wished to avoid limiting the search by search-ing for any specific PTM expressions.
To imple-ment this selection, we used the Medie system5(Ohta et al, 2006; Miyao et al, 2006) to searchPubMed for sentences where a specific protein anda known modified site were found together in asentence occurring in an abstract annotated with aspecific MeSH term.
The (protein name, modifiedsite, MeSH term) triples were extracted from PIRrecords, substituting the appropriate MeSH termfor each PTM type.
Some examples with the num-ber of matching documents are shown in Table 3.As most queries returned either no documents or asmall number of hits, we gave priority to responsesto queries that returned a small number of docu-ments to avoid biasing the corpus toward proteinswhose modifications are frequently discussed.We note that while the PIR annotations typicallyidentified focused text spans considerably shorterthan a single sentence and sentence-level searchwas used in the Medie-based search to increase thelikelihood of identifying relevant statements, afterselection all annotation was performed to full ab-stracts.5http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/medie/21Event type CountProtein modification 38Phosphorylation 546Dephosphorylation 28Acetylation 7Deacetylation 1Ubiquitination 6Deubiquitination 0Table 4: GENIA PTM-related event types andnumber of events in the GENIA event corpus.Type names are simplified: the full form of e.g.the Phosphorylation type in the GENIA event on-tology is Protein amino acid phosphorylation.Event type Arguments CountProtein modification Theme 31Phosphorylation Theme 261Phosphorylation Theme, Site 230Phosphorylation Site 20Phosphorylation Theme, Cause 14Dephosphorylation Theme 16Table 5: GENIA PTM-related event arguments.Only argument combinations appearing more than10 times in the corpus shown.2.3 RepresentationThe employed event representation can capturethe association of varying numbers of participantsin different roles.
To apply an event extractionapproach to PTM, we must first define the tar-geted representation, specifying the event types,the mandatory and optional arguments, and the ar-gument types ?
the roles that the participants playin the events.
In the following, we discuss alterna-tives and present the representation applied in thiswork.The GENIA Event ontology, applied in theannotation of the GENIA Event corpus (Kimet al, 2008) that served as the basis of theBioNLP shared task data, defines a general Pro-tein modification event type and six more specificmodification subtypes, shown in Table 4.
Whilethe existing Acetylation type could thus be appliedtogether with the generic Protein modificationtype to capture all the annotated PTMs, we be-lieve that identification of the specific PTM typeis not only important to users of extracted PTMevents but also a relatively modest additional bur-den for automatic extraction, owing to the unam-biguous nature of typical expressions used to stateFigure 1: Alternative representations for PTMstatements including a catalyst in GENIA Eventcorpus.
PTM events can be annotated with a di-rect Cause argument (top, PMID 9374467) or us-ing an additional Regulation event (middle, PMID10074432).
The latter annotation can be appliedalso in cases where there is no expression directly?triggering?
the secondary event (bottom, PMID7613138).PTMs in text.
We thus chose to introduce threeadditional specific modification types, Glycosyla-tion, Hydroxylation and Methylation for use in theannotation.The GENIA Event corpus annotation allowsPTM events to take Theme, Site and Cause argu-ments specifying the event participants, where theTheme identifies the entity undergoing the mod-ification, Site the specific region being modified,and Cause an entity or event leading to the modi-fication.
Table 5 shows frequent argument combi-nations appearing in the annotated data.
We notethat while Theme is specified in the great majorityof events and Site in almost half, Cause is anno-tated for less than 5% of the events.
However, therelative sparsity of Cause arguments in modifica-tion events does not imply that e.g.
catalysts of theevents are stated only very rarely, but instead re-flects also the use of an alternative representationfor capturing such statements without a Cause ar-gument for the PTM event.
The GENIA event an-notation specifies a Regulation event (with Posi-tive regulation and Negative regulation subtypes),used to annotate not only regulation in the biolog-ical sense but also statements of general causalitybetween events: Regulation events are used gen-erally to connect entities or events stated to otherevents that they are stated to cause.
Thus, PTM22events with a stated cause (e.g.
a catalyst) can bealternatively represented with a Cause argumenton the PTM event or using a separate Regulationevent (Figure 1).
The interpretation of these eventstructures is identical, and from an annotation per-spective there are advantages to both.
However,for the purpose of automatic extraction it is impor-tant to establish a consistent representation, andthus only one should be used.In this work, we follow the latter representation,disallowing Cause arguments for annotated PTMevents and applying separate Regulation eventsto capture e.g.
catalyst associations.
This choicehas the benefits of providing an uniform repre-sentation for catalysis and inhibition (one involv-ing a Positive regulation and the other a Nega-tive regulation event), reducing the sparseness ofspecific event structures in the data, and matchingthe representation chosen in the BioNLP sharedtask, thus maintaining compatibility with exist-ing event extraction methods.
Finally, we notethat while we initially expected that glycosylationstatements might frequently identify specific at-tached side chains, necessitating the introductionof an additional argument type to accurately cap-ture all the stated information regarding Glycosy-lation events, the data contained too few examplesfor either training material or to justify the mod-ification of the event model.
We adopt the con-straints applied in the BioNLP shared task regard-ing the entity types allowed as specific arguments.Thus, the representation we apply here annotatedPTM events with specific types, taking as Themeargument a gene/gene product type entity and asSite argument a physical (non-event) entity thatdoes not need to be assigned a specific type.2.4 Annotation criteriaTo create PTM annotation compatible with theevent extraction systems introduced for theBioNLP shared task, we created annotation fol-lowing the GENIA Event corpus annotation cri-teria (Kim et al, 2008), as adapted for the sharedtask.
The criteria specify that annotation should beapplied to statements that involve the occurrenceof a change in the state of an entity ?
even if statedas having occurred in the past, or only hypotheti-cally ?
but not in cases merely discussing the stateor properties of entities, even if these can serve asthe basis for inference that a specific change hasoccurred.
We found that many of the spans an-notated in PIR as evidence for PTM did not ful-fill the criteria for event annotation.
The most fre-quent class consisted of cases where the only evi-dence for a PTM was in the form of a sequence ofresidues, for exampleCharacterization [.
.
. ]
gave the follow-ing sequence, Gly-Cys-Hyp-D-Trp-Glu-Pro-Trp-Cys-NH2 where Hyp = 4-trans-hydroxyproline.
(PMID 8910408)Here, the occurrence of hydroxyproline in the se-quence implies that the protein has been hydrox-ylated, but as the hydroxylation event is only im-plied by the protein state, no event is annotated.Candidates drawn from PIR but not fulfillingthe criteria were excluded from annotation.
Whilethis implies that the general class of event extrac-tion approaches considered here will not recoverall statements providing evidence of PTM to bi-ologists (per the PIR criteria), several factors mit-igate this limitation of their utility.
First, whilePTMs implied by sequence only are relatively fre-quent in PIR, its selection criteria give emphasisto publications initially reporting the existence of aPTM, and further publications discussing the PTMare not expected to state it as sequence only.
Thus,it should be possible to extract the correspond-ing PTMs from later sources.
Similarly, one ofthe promises of event extraction approaches is thepotential to extract associations of multiple enti-ties and extract causal chains connecting eventswith others (e.g.
E catalyzes the hydroxylation ofP, leading to .
.
.
), and the data indicates that thesequence-only statements typically provide littleinformation on the biological context of the modi-fication beyond identifying the entity and site.
Assuch non-contextual PTM information is alreadyavailable in multiple databases, this class of state-ments may not be of primary interest for event ex-traction.2.5 Annotation resultsThe new PTM annotation covers 157 PubMedabstracts.
Following the model of the BioNLPshared task, all mentions of specific gene or geneproduct names in the abstracts were annotated, ap-plying the annotation criteria of (Ohta et al, 2009).This new named entity annotation covers 1031gene/gene product mentions, thus averaging morethan six mentions per annotated abstract.
In to-tal, 422 events of which 405 are of the novel PTM23Event type CountGlycosylation 122Hydroxylation 103Methylation 90Acetylation 90Positive reg.
12Phosphorylation 3Protein modification 2TOTAL 422Table 6: Statistics of the introduced event annota-tion.Arguments CountTheme, Site 363Theme 36Site 6Table 7: Statistics for the arguments of the anno-tated PTM events.types were annotated, matching the initial annota-tion target in number and giving a well-balanceddistribution of the specific PTM types (Table 6).Reflecting the selection of the source texts, theargument structures of the annotated PTM events(Table 7) show a different distribution from thoseannotated in the GENIA event corpus (Table 5):whereas less than half of the GENIA event corpusPTM events include a Site argument, almost 90%of the PTM events in the new data include a Site.PTM events identifying both the modified proteinand the specific modified site are expected to beof more practical interest.
However, we note thatthe greater number of multi-argument events is ex-pected to make the dataset more challenging as anextraction target.3 EvaluationTo estimate the capacity of the newly annotatedresource to support the extraction of the targetedPTM events and the performance of current eventextraction methods at open-domain PTM extrac-tion, we performed a set of experiments using anevent extraction method competitive with the stateof the art, as established in the BioNLP shared taskon event extraction (Kim et al, 2009a; Bjo?rne etal., 2009).3.1 MethodsWe adopted the recently introduced event extrac-tion system of Miwa et al (2010).
The systemapplies a pipeline architecture consisting of threesupervised classification-based modules: a trig-ger detector, an event edge detector, and an eventdetector.
In evaluation on the BioNLP sharedtask test data, the system extracted phosphory-lation events at 75.7% precision and 85.2% re-call (80.1% F-score) for Task 1, and 75.7% preci-sion and 83.3% recall (79.3% F-score) for Task 2,showing performance comparable to the best re-sults reported in the literature for this event class(Buyko et al, 2009).
We assume three precondi-tions for the PTM extraction: proteins are given,all PTMs have Sites, and all arguments in a PTMco-occur in sentence scope.
The first of these isper the BioNLP shared task setup, the second fixedbased the corpus statistics, and the third a propertyintrinsic to the extraction method, which builds onanalysis of sentence structure.6 In the experimentsreported here, only the four novel PTM event typeswith Sites in the corpus are regarded as a target forthe extraction.The system extracted PTMs as follows: thetrigger detector detected the entities (triggers andsites) of the PTMs, the event edge detector de-tected the edges in the PTMs, and the event de-tector detected the PTMs.
The evaluation settingwas the same as the evaluation in (Miwa et al,2010) except for the threshold.
The thresholds inthe three modules were tuned with the develop-ment data set.Performance evaluation is performed using theBioNLP shared task primary evaluation criteria,termed the ?Approximate Span Matching?
crite-rion.
This criterion relaxes the requirements ofstrict matching in accepting extracted event trig-gers and entities as correct if their span is insidethe region of the corresponding region in the goldstandard annotation.3.2 Data PreparationThe corpus data was split into training and test setson the document level with a sampling strategythat aimed to preserve a roughly 3:1 ratio of oc-currences of each event type between training andtest data.
The test data was held out during sys-tem development and parameter selection and onlyapplied in a single final experiment.
The event ex-traction system was trained using the 112 abstractsof the training set, further using 24 of the abstracts6We note that in the BioNLP shared task data, all argu-ments were contained within single sentences for 95% ofevents.24Figure 2: Performance of PTM extraction on thedevelopment data set.Event type Prec Rec FAcetylation 69.6% 36.7% 48.1%Methylation 50.0% 34.2% 40.6%Glycosylation 36.7% 42.5% 39.4%Hydroxylation 57.1% 29.3% 38.7%Overall 52.1% 35.7% 42.4%Table 8: Event extraction results on the test set.as a development test set.3.3 ResultsWe first performed parameter selection, setting themachine learning method parameter by estimatingperformance on the development data set.
Figure 2shows the performance of PTM extraction on thedevelopment data set with different values of pa-rameter.
The threshold value corresponding to thebest performance (0.3) was then applied for an ex-periment on the held-out test set.Performance on the test set was evaluated as52% precision and 36% recall (42% F-score),matching estimates on the development data.
Abreakdown by event type (Table 8) shows thatAcetylation is most reliably extracted with extrac-tion for the other three PTM types showing sim-ilar F-scores despite some variance in the preci-sion/recall balance.
We note that while these re-sults fall notably below the best result reportedfor Phosphorylation events in the BioNLP sharedtask, they are comparable to the best results re-ported in the task for Regulation and Bindingevents (Kim et al, 2009a), suggesting that thedataset alows the extraction of the novel PTMevents with Theme and Site arguments at levelscomparable to multi-argument shared task events.Figure 3: Learning curve of PTM extraction on thedevelopment data set.Further, a learning curve (Figure 3) plotted onthe development data suggests roughly linearlyincreasing performance over most of the curve.While the increase appears to be leveling off toan extent when using all of the available data, thelearning curve indicates that performance can befurther improved by increasing the size of the an-notated dataset.4 DiscussionPost-translational modifications have been a fo-cus of interest in the biomedical text mining com-munity, and a number of resources and systemstargeting PTM have been proposed.
The GE-NIES and GeneWays systems (Friedman et al,2001; Rzhetsky et al, 2004) targeted PTM eventssuch as phosphorylation and dephosphorylationunder the more general createbond and breakbondtypes.
Hu et al (2005) introduce the RLIMS-Prule-based system for mining the substrates andsites for phosphorylation, which is extended withthe capacity to extract intra-clausal statements byNarayanaswamy et al (2005).
Saric et al (2006)present an extension of their rule-based STRING-IE system for extracting regulatory networks tocapture phosphorylation and dephosphorylationevents.
Lee et al (2008) present E3Miner, a toolfor automatically extracting information related toubiquitination, and Kim et al (2009b) present apreliminary study adapting the E3Miner approachto the mining of acetylation events.It should be noted that while studies target-ing single specific PTM types report better re-sults than found in the initial evaluation presentedhere (in many cases dramatically so), different25extraction targets and evaluation criteria compli-cate direct comparison.
Perhaps more importantly,our aim here is to extend the capabilities of gen-eral event extraction systems targeting multipletypes of structured events.
Pursuing this broadergoal necessarily involves some compromise in theability to focus on the extraction of individualevent types, and it is expected that highly focusedsystems will provide better performance than re-trained general systems.The approach to PTM extraction adopted hererelies extensively on the availability of annotatedresources, the creation of which requires consider-able effort and expertise in understanding the tar-get domain as well as the annotation methodologyand tools.
The annotation created in this study,performed largely on the basis of partial existingannotations drawn from PIR data, involved an es-timated three weeks of full-time effort from an ex-perienced annotator.
As experiments further in-dicated that a larger corpus may be necessary forreliable annotation, we can estimate that extendingthe approach to sufficient coverage of each of hun-dreds of PTM types without a partial initial anno-tation would easily require several person-years ofannotation efforts.
We thus see a clear need for thedevelopment of unsupervised or semisupervisedmethods for PTM extraction to extend the cover-age of event extraction systems to the full scale ofdifferent PTM types.
Nevertheless, even if reliablemethods for PTM extraction that entirely avoid theneed for annotated training data become available,a manually curated reference standard will still benecessary for reliable estimation of their perfor-mance.
To efficiently support the development ofevent extraction systems capable of capturing thefull variety of PTM events, it may be beneficial toreverse the approach taken here: instead of anno-tating hundreds of examples of a small number ofPTM types, annotate a small number of each ofhundreds of PTM types, thus providing both seeddata for semisupervised approaches as well as ref-erence data for the evaluation of broad-coveragePTM event extraction systems.5 Conclusions and Future WorkWe have presented an event extraction approachto automatic PTM recognition, building on themodel introduced in the BioNLP shared task onevent extraction.
By annotating a targeted cor-pus for four prominent PTM types not consideredin the BioNLP shared task data, we have createda resource that can be straightforwardly used toextend the capability of event extraction systemsfor PTM extraction.
We estimated that while sys-tems trained on the original shared task datasetcould not recognize more than 50% of PTM men-tions due to their types, the introduced annotationincreases this theoretical upper bound to nearly90%.
An initial experiment on the newly intro-duced dataset using a state-of-the-art method indi-cated that straightforward adoption of the datasetas training data to extend coverage of PTM eventswithout specific adaptations of the method is feasi-ble, although the measured performance indicatesremaining challenges for reliable extraction.
Fur-ther, while the experiments were performed on adataset selected to avoid bias toward e.g.
a partic-ular subdomain or specific forms of event expres-sions, it remains an open question how extractionperformance generalizes to biomedical literaturebeyond the selected sample.
As experiments in-dicated clear remaining potential for the improve-ment of extraction performance from more train-ing data, the extension of the annotated dataset isa natural direction for future work.
We consideredalso the possiblity of extending annotation to coversmall numbers of each of a large variety of PTMtypes, which would place focus on the challengesof event extraction with little or no training datafor specific event types.The annotated corpus covering over 1000 geneand gene product entities and over 400 events isfreely available in the widely adopted BioNLPshared task format at the GENIA project home-page.7AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Goran Topic for automat-ing Medie queries to identify target abstracts.This work was partially supported by Grant-in-Aid for Specially Promoted Research (MEXT,Japan) and Japan-Slovenia Research CooperativeProgram (JSPS, Japan and MHEST, Slovenia).ReferencesSophia Ananiadou, Sampo Pyysalo, Junichi Tsujii, andDouglas B. Kell.
2010.
Event extraction for sys-tems biology by text mining the literature.
Trends inBiotechnology.
(to appear).7http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA26Jari Bjo?rne, Juho Heimonen, Filip Ginter, Antti Airola,Tapio Pahikkala, and Tapio Salakoski.
2009.
Ex-tracting complex biological events with rich graph-based feature sets.
In Proceedings of the BioNLP2009 Workshop Companion Volume for Shared Task,pages 10?18, Boulder, Colorado, June.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Ekaterina Buyko, Erik Faessler, Joachim Wermter, andUdo Hahn.
2009.
Event extraction from trimmeddependency graphs.
In Proceedings of the BioNLP2009 Workshop Companion Volume for Shared Task,pages 19?27, Boulder, Colorado, June.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Carol Friedman, Pauline Kra, Hong Yu, MichaelKrauthammer, and Andrey Rzhetsky.
2001.
GE-NIES: A natural-language processing system for theextraction of molecular pathways from journal arti-cles.
Bioinformatics, 17(Suppl.
1):S74?S82.Z.
Z. Hu, M. Narayanaswamy, K. E. Ravikumar,K.
Vijay-Shanker, and C. H. Wu.
2005.
Literaturemining and database annotation of protein phospho-rylation using a rule-based system.
Bioinformatics,21(11):2759?2765.Rudolf Jaenisch and Adrian Bird.
2003.
Epigeneticregulation of gene expression: how the genome in-tegrates intrinsic and environmental signals.
NatureGenetics, 33:245?254.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.2008.
Corpus annotation for mining biomedicalevents from lterature.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(1):10.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009a.
Overviewof bionlp?09 shared task on event extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop CompanionVolume for Shared Task, pages 1?9, Boulder, Col-orado, June.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Youngrae Kim, Hodong Lee, and Gwan-Su Yi.
2009b.Literature mining for protein acetylation.
In Pro-ceedings of LBM?09.Hodong Lee, Gwan-Su Yi, and Jong C. Park.
2008.E3Miner: a text mining tool for ubiquitin-proteinligases.
Nucl.
Acids Res., 36(suppl.2):W416?422.Matthias Mann and Ole N. Jensen.
2003.
Proteomicanalysis of post-translational modifications.
NatureBiotechnology, 21:255?261.Makoto Miwa, Rune S?tre, Jin-Dong Kim, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2010.
Event extraction with com-plex event classification using rich features.
Jour-nal of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology(JBCB), 8(1):131?146, February.Yusuke Miyao, Tomoko Ohta, Katsuya Masuda, Yoshi-masa Tsuruoka, Kazuhiro Yoshida, Takashi Ni-nomiya, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2006.
Semantic Re-trieval for the Accurate Identification of RelationalConcepts in Massive Textbases.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL 2006, pages 1017?1024.M.
Narayanaswamy, K. E. Ravikumar, and K. Vijay-Shanker.
2005.
Beyond the clause: extractionof phosphorylation information from medline ab-stracts.
Bioinformatics, 21(suppl.1):i319?327.Tomoko Ohta, Yusuke Miyao, Takashi Ninomiya,Yoshimasa Tsuruoka, Akane Yakushiji, KatsuyaMasuda, Jumpei Takeuchi, Kazuhiro Yoshida, Ta-dayoshi Hara, Jin-Dong Kim, Yuka Tateisi, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2006.
An Intelligent Search Engineand GUI-based Efficient MEDLINE Search ToolBased on Deep Syntactic Parsing.
In Proceedingsof the COLING/ACL 2006 Interactive PresentationSessions, pages 17?20.Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, Sampo Pyysalo, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Incorporating GENETAG-style annotation to GENIA corpus.
In Proceedingsof Natural Language Processing in Biomedicine(BioNLP) NAACL 2009 Workshop, pages 106?107,Boulder, Colorado.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, Juho Heimonen, JariBjo?rne, Jorma Boberg, Jouni Ja?rvinen, and TapioSalakoski.
2007.
BioInfer: A corpus for infor-mation extraction in the biomedical domain.
BMCBioinformatics, 8(50).Andrey Rzhetsky, Ivan Iossifov, Tomohiro Koike,Michael Krauthammer, Pauline Kra, Mitzi Mor-ris, Hong Yu, Pablo Ariel Duboue?, Wubin Weng,W.
John Wilbur, Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, andCarol Friedman.
2004.
GeneWays: A system forextracting, analyzing, visualizing, and integratingmolecular pathway data.
Journal of Biomedical In-formatics, 37(1):43?53.Jasmin Saric, Lars Juhl Jensen, Rossitza Ouzounova,Isabel Rojas, and Peer Bork.
2006.
Extractionof regulatory gene/protein networks from Medline.Bioinformatics, 22(6):645?650.The Gene Ontology Consortium.
2000.
Gene ontol-ogy: tool for the unification of biology.
Nature Ge-netics, 25:25?29.Eric S Witze, William M Old, Katheryn A Resing,and Natalie G Ahn.
2007.
Mapping protein post-translational modifications with mass spectrometry.Nature Methods, 4:798?806.Cathy H. Wu, Lai-Su L. Yeh, Hongzhan Huang, LeslieArminski, Jorge Castro-Alvear, Yongxing Chen,Zhangzhi Hu, Panagiotis Kourtesis, Robert S. Led-ley, Baris E. Suzek, C.R.
Vinayaka, Jian Zhang, andWinona C. Barker.
2003.
The Protein InformationResource.
Nucl.
Acids Res., 31(1):345?347.27
