Proceedings of the 5th ACL-HLT Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 1?9,Portland, OR, USA, 24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtending the tool,or how to annotate historical language varietiesCristina Sa?nchez-MarcoUniversitat Pompeu FabraBarcelona, Spaincristina.sanchezm@upf.eduGemma Boleda, Llu?
?s Padro?Universitat Polite`cnica de CatalunyaBarcelona, Spain{gboleda,padro}@lsi.upc.eduAbstractWe present a general and simple method toadapt an existing NLP tool in order to enableit to deal with historical varieties of languages.This approach consists basically in expandingthe dictionary with the old word variants andin retraining the tagger with a small trainingcorpus.
We implement this approach for OldSpanish.The results of a thorough evaluation over theextended tool show that using this methodan almost state-of-the-art performance is ob-tained, adequate to carry out quantitative stud-ies in the humanities: 94.5% accuracy for themain part of speech and 92.6% for lemma.
Toour knowledge, this is the first time that sucha strategy is adopted to annotate historical lan-guage varieties and we believe that it could beused as well to deal with other non-standardvarieties of languages.1 IntroductionIn the last few years, there has been a growing in-terest in all disciplines of the humanities to studyhistorical varieties of languages using quantitativemethods (Sagi et al, 2009; Lu?deling et al, to ap-pear).
Large corpora are necessary to conduct thistype of studies, so as to smooth the great data sparse-ness problem affecting non-standard varieties of lan-guages, and thus guarantee the validity of the gener-alizations based on these data.Historical language varieties bear similarities tostandard varieties, but they also exhibit remarkabledifferences in a number of respects, such as theirmorphology, syntax, and semantics.
In addition, asorthographic rules were not established until latercenturies, a great amount of graphemic variation isfound in historical texts, such that one word canbe written using many different graphemic variants.This variation increases considerably the number ofdifferent words and therefore the lexicon of the cor-responding language variety.
For instance, searchingfor the infinitival verb form haber ?have?
in a histor-ical corpus for Spanish can be a difficult task if thereare, say, 5 variants of the same word (auer, aver,hauer, haver, haber) and the corpus does not con-tain any other linguistic information, such as lemmaand part of speech (PoS).In this paper we propose a strategy to automati-cally enrich texts from historical language varietieswith linguistic information, namely to expand a pre-existing NLP tool for standard varieties of a lan-guage.
To our knowledge, it is the first time that suchan approach is proposed and evaluated.
In particular,we describe the method followed to extend a library(FreeLing1) for the linguistic analysis of StandardSpanish to enable it to deal with Old Spanish2.This general approach has four main advantagesover the state-of-the-art strategies (described in sec-tion 2).
First, the resulting tool can be reused (withthe consequent saving of resources).
Second, thetool can be further improved by other researchers.Third, it is the tool that is adapted, instead of forc-1http://nlp.lsi.upc.edu/freeling.
The toolfor Old Spanish is available in the development version 3.0-devel, accessible via SVN.2As it is considered by most scholars, we consider Old Span-ish the period from the 12th to the 16th century.1ing standardisation on the original texts (see section2).
Also, the strategy can be used to extend otherexisting tools.The specific case study in this paper presents ad-ditional advantages.
On the one hand, FreeLing is anopen source resource that is well documented andactively maintained.
In addition, due to the modu-larity of this tool, it is relatively easy to adapt.
Onthe other hand, the result of the extension is a toolfor Old Spanish across different centuries, that is tosay, the tool can be used to accurately tag not onlySpanish from a particular century but also to tag thelanguage over a long period of time (from the 12thto the 16th century).
The resulting tool achieves al-most state-of-the-art performance for PoS-taggers:a tagging accuracy of 94.5% on the part of speech,92.6% on lemmas, and 89.9% on the complete mor-phological tag including detailed information suchas gender or number for nouns and tense and personfor verbs.Plan of the paper.
In Section 2 we review thestate of the art.
In Sections 3 through 5 we describeFreeLing and the data and methodology used for itsadaptation to Old Spanish.
Then the results of theevaluation and error analysis are presented (Sections6 and 7).
We conclude with some discussion andsuggestions for future work (Section 8).2 Related workUp to now, three main approaches have been fol-lowed to automatically enrich historical corporawith linguistic information: (i) automatic taggingusing existing tools followed by human correction,(ii) standardisation of the words followed by auto-matic tagging with existing tools, and (ii) re-trainingof a tagger on historical texts.The first approach has been adopted in projectssuch as the Penn Historical Corpora3 , The York-Toronto-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Old EnglishProse (Taylor, 2007), and the Corpus of EarlyEnglish Correspondence or CEEEC (Raumolin-Brunberg and Nevalainen, 2007).
The second strat-egy, namely, to standardize the corpora prior totheir annotation with NLP tools, has also been fol-lowed by other scholars (Rayson et al, 2007; Ernst-Gerlach and Fuhr, 2007; Baron and Rayson, 2008).3http://www.ling.upenn.edu/hist-corpora.In this approach, graphemic variants in Old Englishand German texts are identified and subsequentlymapped onto their modern equivalents (i.e., the stan-dardized forms).
This approach is adequate fortasks such as information retrieval (Ernst-Gerlachand Fuhr, 2007), but not quite so for quantitativeresearch for historical variants.
For example, thereare many words in historical varieties of languagesfor which a corresponding standard variant does notexist (e.g., maguer ?although?
in Old Spanish).
Asreported in Rayson et al (2007) the PoS tagging ac-curacy obtained with this method in texts from theEarly Modern English period is around 85%.Recently there have been some experiments withmorphosyntactic tagging of historical data by train-ing a model on old texts (Ro?gnvaldsson and Hel-gado?ttir, 2008; Dipper, 2010).
For example,Ro?gnvaldsson and Helgado?ttir (2008) use this ap-proach to tag Old Norse texts (sagas from the 13thand 14th century) yielding 92.7% accuracy on thetag, almost 3 points higher than that obtained in ourcase.Our approach is similar in spirit to the latter, aswe also train a tagger using an annotated historicalcorpus.
However, it differs in that we consistentlyextend the whole resource (not only the tagger, butalso the dictionary and other modules such as the to-kenization).
Thus, we build a complete set of tools tohandle Old Spanish.
Also, our work covers a largertime span, and it is able to tag texts from a wide vari-ety of genres (hence the difference in accuracy withrespect to Ro?gnvaldsson and Helgado?ttir (2008)).As noted in the Introduction, in comparison tostate-of-the-art approaches the strategy proposed inthis paper requires fewer resources, it is easilyportable and reusable for other corpora and lan-guages and yields a satisfactory accuracy.3 The analyzerFreeLing is a developer-oriented library providing anumber of language analysis services, such as mor-phosyntactic tagging, sense annotation or depen-dency parsing (Padro?
et al, 2010).
As mentionedin the Introduction, this tool, being open source, ac-tively developed and maintained, and highly mod-ular, is particularly well suited for our purposes.In addition, it provides an application programming2interface (API) which allows the desired languageanalyses to be integrated into a more complex pro-cessing.
In its current version (2.2), this resourceprovides services (to different extents) for the fol-lowing languages: English, Spanish, Portuguese,Italian, Galician, Catalan, Asturian, and Welsh.
Inthis paper we have focused on the adaptation of theresources for morphosyntactic tagging, but the syn-tactic and semantic modules can also be customized.The FreeLing processing pipeline for morphosyn-tactic tagging is illustrated in Figure 1.
As shownin the figure, a set of texts is submitted to the an-alyzer, which processes and enriches the texts withlinguistic information using the different modules:tokenization, dictionary, affixation, probability as-signment and unknown-word guesser4, and PoS tag-ger.The tagset used by this tool is based on the EA-GLES standard5.
The first letter of each tag indi-cates the morphological class of the word.
The re-maining letters (up to 6) specify more fine-grainedmorphosyntactic and semantic information, such asthe gender and number of nouns or the tense, modeand type (main or auxiliary) of verbs.4 The Data4.1 Old Spanish CorpusIn order to adapt the tool, we have worked withthe electronic texts compiled, transcribed and editedby the Hispanic Seminary of Medieval Studies(HSMS).6 We will refer to the set of texts used toadapt the tool as Old Spanish Corpus.
These texts,all critical editions of the original manuscripts, com-prise a variety of genres (fiction and non-fiction)from the 12th until the 16th century and consistof more than 20 million tokens and 470 thousandtypes.
The original texts in these compilations ren-der the copy very closely (diplomatic transcriptions)4This module has two functions: first, it assigns an a prioriprobability to each analysis of each word.
Second, if a word hasno analysis (none of the previously applied modules succeededto analyze it), a statistical guesser is used to find out the mostlikely PoS tags, based on the word ending.5Expert Advisory Group on Language Engineering Stan-dards (http://www.ilc.cnr.it/EAGLES96/home.html).6Corfis et al (1997), Herrera and de Fauve (1997), Kastenet al (1997), Nitti and Kasten (1997), O?Neill (1999).raw text tokenizerprobabilities affixationdictionarymorphologicalanalysisANALYZERTAGGERtaggedcorpusFigure 1: Processing pipeline in FreeLing.and contain annotations encoding paleographic in-formation, for instance about the physical charac-teristics of the manuscript or marks and notes bydifferent scribes.
These annotations were removed,and the original transcription of the words has beenmantained preserving the similarity to the originalcopies.As is the case for most languages keeping datafrom historical varieties, the number and type orgenre of texts which have been preserved for eachcentury varies.
From this perspective, the Old Span-ish Corpus used to extend the tool is representativeof the language, since it covers the language of theMiddle Age period, containing samples of most gen-res and centuries from the 12th century up to the16th century.
As shown in the first row of Table 1,the corpus contains a much lower number of tokensfor the 12th century compared to the remaining cen-turies, as only one document from this century is in-cluded in the corpus.
The 13th to 15th centuries arefairly well represented, while comparably less to-kens are available for the 16th century, due to the de-sign of the HSMS collections.
To get an impressionon the types of texts covered in the Old Spanish Cor-pus, the documents have been classified accordingto their genre or topic in CORDE7.
8 types of genresor topics have been considered: fiction (including7CORDE is a reference corpus of diachronic Spanish con-taining texts from the 8th century up to 1975 (http://www.rae.es).3novels and also other narrative books), law, didac-tics (treatises, sapiential literature), history (chroni-cles, letters and other historical documentation), so-ciety (hunting, fashion), poetry, science (medicine,astrology, astronomy), and religion (Bible).
Fig-ure 2 illustrates the distribution of texts according totheir genre or topic in each century.
The width andheight of rows represent the proportion of texts ofeach genre-topic for each century.
Each box corre-sponds to a particular type of text.
On the x-axis thecenturies are represented, from the 13th to the 16thcentury.8 As can be seen from the size of the corre-sponding boxes, there is a higher number of fictionbooks in the later centuries.
In contrast, the propor-tion of law and religion books decreases in time.
Allin all, the corpus contains a fair variety of genresand topics present in Old Spanish literature, so thelanguage used in these types of documents is repre-sented in the expanded tool as well.13 14 15 16didacticsfictionhistorylawpoetryreligionsciencesocietyFigure 2: Distribution of genres in the Old Spanish Cor-pus from 13th to 16th century.4.2 Gold Standard CorpusA Gold Standard Corpus has been created in order toretrain the tagger and to carry out the evaluation andthe error analysis.
This corpus consists of 30,000 to-kens which have been pre-annotated with the Stan-dard Spanish tagger and manually corrected.
Texts8The document in the 12th century data, belonging to poetry,is not represented in this graph because of its small size.composing the Gold Standard Corpus have been se-lected from the Old Spanish Corpus so as to mir-ror the data in the whole corpus as far as possible.The token distribution of the Gold Standard Corpusis shown in the second row of Table 1, and the dis-tribution of text types in the second row of Table 2.4.3 Standard Spanish CorpusA Standard Spanish Corpus has been used to estab-lish a baseline performance for the tagger, namely,the LexEsp corpus (Sebastia?n et al, 2000), consist-ing of texts from 1975 to 1995 and totalling morethan 5 million words.
The corpus comprises a repre-sentative sample of the Spanish written variety in the20th century (40% of the tokens in this corpus cor-respond to fiction, 20% science and didactics, and40% different classes of press ?sports, weekly mag-azines, and newspapers).5 MethodThe method proposed consists in using the exist-ing Standard Spanish tool as a basis to create anOld Spanish processor to automatically enrich OldSpanish texts with lemma and morphosyntactic taginformation.
The adaptation of the existing StandardSpanish tool involves the expansion of the dictio-nary (section 5.1), the modification of other moduleswhich are part of the library, such as the tokenizationand the affixation modules (section 5.2), and the re-training of the tagger (section 5.3).5.1 Dictionary expansionData.
The Standard Spanish dictionary contains556,210 words.
This dictionary has been expandedwith 32,015 new word forms, totalling more than55,000 lemma-tag pairs, and thus increasing thenumber of word forms in the dictionary to 588,225.For example, the word form y in the expanded dic-tionary has 4 different lemma-tag pairs, correspond-ing to a coordinate conjunction, a noun, a pronoun,and an adverb, whereas in the Standard Spanish dic-tionary it has only 2 lemma-tag pairs, correspondingto the coordinate conjunction and noun uses.
Table 3illustrates the distribution of the categories of wordswhich have been added to the dictionary.
As couldbe expected from the general distribution of wordsacross PoS categories, verbs and nouns account formore than half of the words added.4Corpus 12th c. 13th c. 14th c. 15th c. 16th c. TotalOld Spanish 0.1 32.2 21.5 31.6 14.6 22,805,699Gold Standard 4.5 31.3 35.1 20.5 8.6 30,000Table 1: Size of the Old Spanish and the Gold Standard Corpus, respectively, in tokens (percentages over the Totalcolumn).Corpus Fiction Law Didactics History Society Poetry Science Religion TotalOld Spanish 22.4 21.8 18.5 17.5 6.3 6.6 3.6 3.3 22,805,699Gold Standard 39.9 13.0 13.0 13.0 0.0 8.7 8.7 4.3 30,000Table 2: Text type distribution in the Old Spanish and the Gold Standard Corpus, respectively, in tokens (percentagesover the Total column).Verbs 48.8% Adverbs 0.4%Nouns 20.8% Determiners 0.3%Adjectives 7.0% Conjunctions 0.3%Pronouns 0.6% Interjections 0.2%Prepositions 0.5% Numbers 0.2%Punctuation 0.01%Table 3: Distribution of words added to the dictionary.Method.
Two different types of mapping ruleshave been used in order to automatically generatethe types of words to be added to the dictionary:substring rules and word rules.
Substring rules map54 sequences of characters from an old variant ontothe corresponding standard variant.
These mappingrules are based on the observed regularities in thespelling of Old Spanish texts (Sa?nchez-Prieto, 2005;Sa?nchez-Marco et al, 2010).
These rules are inde-pendent of the morphophonological context, exceptthat 18% of them are restricted to the beginning orthe end of a word.
Table 4 shows some examplesof these rules.
81.4% of the types added to the dic-tionary have been generated using these rules.
Allwords generated by this method are added to the dic-tionary if and only if they are contained in the cor-pus.
This avoids the automatic generation of a veryhigh number of variants.Old Modern Exampleeuo evo nueuo ?
nuevo ?new?uio vio uio ?
vio ?saw?Table 4: Examples of the substring rules.The remaining 18.5% of the types incorporatedinto the dictionary have been created using wordrules.
These are mappings from an old variant ofa word to its corresponding standard variant (cre-ated manually), to deal with the most frequent typesnot covered by the substring rules, such as for in-stance words without an accent (consul ?
co?nsul?consul?
), or other graphemic variants (yglesia ?iglesia ?church?, catholica ?
cato?lica ?catholic?
).5.2 Adapting other modulesThe tokenization of some symbols has been cus-tomized, in order to deal with the particular charac-teristics of the original data, for instance to accountfor the fact that in most cases the letter c?
is written inthe texts of the HSMS as c?, and n?
as n?
(yac?e ?lay?,cin?o ?adhered?).
Also, FreeLing analyzes forms notfound in the dictionary through an affixation mod-ule that checks whether they are derived forms, suchas adverbs ending in -mente or clitic pronouns (-lo,-la) attached to verbs.
This module has also beenadapted, incorporating Old Spanish clitics (-gela, -li) and other variants of derivation affixes (adverbsin -mientre or -mjentre).5.3 Retraining the taggerFreeLing includes 2 different modules able to per-form PoS tagging: a hybrid tagger (relax), integrat-ing statistical and hand-coded grammatical rules,and a Hidden Markov Model tagger (hmm), whichis a classical trigram markovian tagger, based onTnT (Brants, 2000).
As mentioned in Section 4,the tagger for Standard Spanish has been used topre-annotate the Gold Standard Corpus, which has5subsequently been corrected to be able to carry outthe retraining.
The effort of correcting the corpusis much lower compared to annotating from scratch.In this paper we present the evaluation of the per-formance of the extended resource using the hmmtagger with the probabilities generated automaticallyfrom the trigrams in the Gold Standard Corpus.6 EvaluationIn this section we evaluate the dictionary (Section6.1) and present the overall tagging results (Section6.2).
The resources for Standard Spanish have beenused as a baseline.6.1 DictionaryIn order to evaluate the expanded dictionary, we usethree different measures: ambiguity, coverage, andaccuracy and recall of automatically generated en-tries.Ambiguity measures the average number oflemma-tag pairs per word form.
To compute averageambiguity, each word form is assigned a score cor-responding to the number of lemma-tag pairs in itsdictionary entry.
We have checked ambiguity in twodifferent ways: (i) in the dictionary (type-based),(ii) in the corpus (token-based).
Coverage measuresthe percentage of tokens in the corpus which areanalysed by the dictionary.
Uncovered or unknownwords are those forms which are not included in thedictionary or analysed by the affixation module.
Wealso evaluated the precision and recall of automati-cally generated entries, that is the percentage of cor-rect words among those added to the dictionary bythe substring rules,9 and the percentage of the ex-pected lemmas for those words actually added by therules.
Both measures have been obtained by check-ing a random sample of 512 types (correspondingto 2% of the types added with the substring rules).As only the words added to the dictionary are beingevaluated, these measures have been obtained onlyover the Old Spanish dictionary.The results of the evaluation are summarised inTable 5.
As can be seen in this table, the Old SpanishCorpus is more ambiguous than the Standard Span-ish Corpus, despite the fact that the dictionary is not9The word rules and manual mappings have not been evalu-ated, as they have been manually created.
(note that the 32,000 entries added are only a 5.8%increase in the Standard dictionary).
The higher am-biguity in the corpus is probably due to the fact thatmany function words, such as the word y mentionedin section 5.1, have more entries in the expanded dic-tionary than in the Standard Spanish dictionary.
Theincrease in ambiguity is also due to the large timespan covered by the dictionary, as for instance formsthat in the 13th century were lexical verbs and laterchanged to auxiliaries will bear both the old and thenew morphosyntactic tag (haber changed its mean-ing from ?possess?
or ?hold?
to be the auxiliary inperfect tenses).
Due to this increase in ambiguity, wecan expect a higher number of errors due to ambigu-ity in Old Spanish than in Standard Spanish texts, asthe tagger has more options to disambiguate in con-text and thus the overall error probability increases.As for coverage, 99.4% of the words in the StandardSpanish Corpus are covered by the Standard Span-ish dictionary and affixation module.
In contrast,92.6% of the words in the Old Spanish Corpus arecovered.
If a word has no analysis, the probabilityassignment module tries to guess which are its pos-sible PoS tags, based on the word ending.
This alsomeans that the adapted tool needs to guess the tag ofa word more often, therefore increasing the numberof potential errors.As for precision, the lemmas and tags which havebeen automatically generated using substring rulesand added to the dictionary achieve 99.2%.
Only0.8% of the lemmas and tags are incorrect.
Theseare mostly cases either of Latin words (sedeat) orproper nouns (maac?e, lameth), which in any case arewords not easily treated with automatic rules.
Alsoin this evaluation sample, there are some incompleteentries, lacking 1 or more lemmas and tags.
Casesof entries lacking some lemma (1.4% of the evalua-tion sample, yielding 98.6% recall) are proper nouns(valenc?ia, thesis), Latin words (mjlites, euocat), al-ready incomplete entries in the Standard Spanishdictionary (escanpado ?cleared up?
), and lemma-tagpairs not generated by any of the rules (baiassen?went down?).
Entries lacking some tags (5.3% ofthe evaluation sample, yielding 94.7% recall) aremostly cases of some verbal tenses, for examplewords in which the tag for the future or simple pastis not included (pessara ?he will regret?, affronto ?hefaced?).
The old variant typically lacks the diacritics,6Old Spanish Standard SpanishType-based Token-based Type-based Token-basedAmbiguity 1.21 1.85 1.20 1.68Coverage 92.6% 99.4%Precision 99.2%Recall 98.6% (lemmas), 95% (PoS)Table 5: Evaluation of the dictionary.so the morphosyntactic tag for the accented variantsis not generated.6.2 TaggingIn order to evaluate the performance of the tagger,the accuracy in the tagging of lemmas, PoS-1 (thewhole label, containing detailed morphosyntactic in-formation; 6 characters of the tag in total), and PoS-2 (word class; 1 character in total) has been checked.In all cases, this measure has been obtained as aresult of a 5-fold cross-validation.
As described inSection 5, the method proposed involves (a) adapt-ing the dictionary and other modules, (b) retrainingthe tagger with Old Spanish texts.
To assess the rel-ative impact of these two adaptations, we report theresults of evaluating the tagging under several con-ditions.
To assess (a), we report two scores obtainedusing: (C0) original tools for Standard Spanish, and(C1) the expanded dictionary and other modulescombined with the Standard Spanish tagger.
To as-sess (b), and, specifically, the impact of the size ofthe tagger retraining corpus, we report the results ofretraining the tagger with: (C2) 10,000-token, (C3)20,000-token, and (C4) 30,000-token subsets of theGold Standard Corpus, always using the expandeddictionary and other modules.The accuracy scores obtained on the Gold Stan-dard Corpus are summarised in Table 6.
This tableshows that in each of the conditions, the accuracyincreases.
As can be seen in Table 7, most of the im-provements are significant at a 99% confidence level(?2 test, 1 d.f.).
Exceptions are the lemma whencomparing C2 and C1, and the lemma and tag whencomparing C4 and C3, which do not obtain a signif-icant improvement (not even at the 95% level).The results indicate that both adapting the dic-tionary and other modules and retraining the tag-ger have a positive impact on the overall perfor-Lemma PoS-1 PoS-2C0 72.4 70.9 77.4C1 90.7 86.0 91.0C2 91.2 87.5 91.9C3 92.3 89.5 93.7C4 92.6 89.9 94.5SS 99.1 94.0 97.6Table 6: Accuracy obtained for lemma, PoS-1, and PoS-2in the 5-fold cross-validation for the Old Spanish taggeron the Gold Standard Corpus (rows C0 to C4) and forStandard Spanish (row SS).Condition C0 C1 C2 C3C1 l, p1, p2C2 l, p1, p2 p1, p2C3 l, p1, p2 l, p1, p2 l, p1, p2C4 l, p1, p2 l, p1, p2 l, p1, p2 p2Table 7: Statistical significance in the tagging with thedifferent conditions.
If there is a statistically significantdifference at a 99% confidence degree according to a ?2test with 1 d.f., l (for lemma), p1 (for PoS-1), and p2 (forPoS-2) are written.mance of the extended tool on Old Spanish texts.The factor that has the highest impact is the dictio-nary expansion (together with the adaptation of thetokenization and affixation modules), with improve-ments ranging from 13.6% for PoS-2 to 18.3% forlemma.
However, retraining the tagger, even if it iswith a small corpus, also pays off in terms of preci-sion: With 30,000 words, the performance on PoS-identification increases from 91.0% to 94.5%.
Thebest result with the full set of tags (PoS-1) is 89.0%and 94.5% for the main PoS.To compare the Old Spanish and Standard Span-ish taggers on the same basis, we retrained theFreeLing Standard Spanish tagger on a 30,000-token7fragment of the LexEsp corpus.
The results for Stan-dard Spanish, shown in the last row of Table 6, arestill significantly higher (?2 test, 1 d.f., 99% conf.level) than those for the Old Spanish tagger: Theaccuracy over PoS-2 is 97.6%, 3 points higher thanthe 94.5% obtained for Old Spanish.
The error anal-ysis presented below shows the causes of these er-rors, giving clues as to how this performance couldbe improved.7 Error analysisThe analysis of errors has been conducted over the100 most frequent errors in tagging obtained withthe Old Spanish tagger under condition C4.
Thisanalysis shows that most of the errors in the tag-ging are due to the ambiguity in the dictionary, ascould be expected given the discussion in the previ-ous section.
Specifically, 90% of the errors corre-sponds to words for which the correct tag is avail-able in the dictionary, but the tagger has not selectedit.
More than half of these errors (57.8%) are dueto types which are also ambiguous in the StandardSpanish dictionary.
The most frequent errors involve(i) function words such as determiner vs. clitic read-ings of la, las ?the/it?
and relative pronoun vs. subor-dinating conjunction readings of que ?that?, (ii) firstand third person singular of verbal forms, which arehomographs in Old Spanish (queria ?I|he wanted?,podia ?I|he could?).
The remaining 42.2% of theerrors due to ambiguity are mostly words lackingthe accent in Old Spanish.
These are ambiguousverbal forms of the present and simple past (llego?arrive|arrived?
), pronouns ( que ?what|that?
), andadverbs (mas ?more|but?
).
Other errors correspondto types which were more ambiguous in Old Span-ish, such as the already mentioned ambiguity for thecoordinating conjunction (y ?and?).
The 10% errorsthat are not due to ambiguity correspond to wordswhich were not added by any of the methods usedto expand the dictionary, mostly proper nouns (pier-res, antolinez), but also other words not covered byany rule (ovo ?had?, coita ?wish?).
This low per-centage shows that the dictionary expansion is quitethorough.8 Discussion and future workIn this paper we have presented a method to extendan existing NLP tool in order to enable it to deal withhistorical varieties of a language.
To our knowledge,this is the first time that such an strategy is pursuedto automatically enrich Spanish historical texts withlinguistic information.
The modules for StandardSpanish of an existing tool, especially the dictionaryand affixation modules, have been adapted using ev-idence from a large and representative Old Spanishcorpus.
Also the tagger has been retrained, using a30,000-token Gold Standard Corpus.
Thus, the toolfor Standard Spanish has been extended, profitingfrom the similarity between the historical and stan-dard varieties of Spanish, such that constructing aresource for Old Spanish required a relatively mod-est effort (around 6 person-months).
As a result, wehave obtained a reusable tool, which can be used totag other corpora and be maintained and improvedby other scholars.The quality of the tagging is quite good: Thetagger is able to correctly identify word lemmas in92.6% of the cases, and in 94.5% the main PoS.The performance is still below the state-of-the-artfor standard varieties of languages, and below theperformance on a Corpus of Standard Spanish, but itis good enough to carry out quantitative analyses ofhistorical data.
We have shown that the lower perfor-mance is due to two factors: First, the increased am-biguity in the dictionary due to the large time spanconsidered (the tool is able to tag texts from the 12thto the 16th centuries).
Second, the small size of thetraining corpus.
It is expected that the performancecould improve by using the same methods to dealwith PoS-disambiguation using context informationin state-of-the-art tools.
For instance, adding manualrules to the hybrid tagger included in FreeLing mayimprove the performance.
Also, a spelling correctorcould help solving the 10% of the errors which arenot due to ambiguity but to orthographic variation.The approach proposed could be followed to dealnot only with historical varieties of languages, butalso with other non-standard varieties, such as di-alects or texts found in chats, blogs, or SMS texts.In the future, we will test it with so-called ?Spanish2.0?.8AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported by the Ministry of Ed-ucation and the Ministry of Science and Tech-nology of Spain under contracts AP2006-03547(FPU), FFI2010-15006 (OntoSem 2), TIN2009-14715-C04-04 (KNOW-II), and JCI2007-57-1479,and by the European Union via the EU PASCAL2Network of Excellence (FP7-ICT-216886).ReferencesAlistair Baron and Paul Rayson.
2008.
Vard 2: A tool fordealing with spelling variation in historical corpora.
InProceedings of the Postgraduate Conference in Cor-pus Linguistics, Birmingham, UK.
Aston University.Thorsten Brants.
2000.
Tnt - a statistical part-of-speechtagger.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Applied NaturalLanguage Processing Conference ANLP-2000, Seat-tle, WA.Ivy A. Corfis, John O?Neill, and Jr. Theodore S. Beards-ley.
1997.
Early Celestina Electronic Texts and Con-cordances.
Hispanic Seminary of Medieval Studies,Ltd.
Madison, Wisconsin.Stefanie Dipper.
2010.
Pos-tagging of historical lan-guage data: First experiments.
In emantic Approachesin Natural Language Processing: Proceedings of theConference on Natural Language Processing (KON-VENS 2010).Andrea Ernst-Gerlach and Norbert Fuhr.
2007.
Re-trieval in text collections with historic spelling usinglinguistic and spelling variants.
In Proceedings of the7th ACM IEEE Joint Conference on Digital Libraries(JCDL), Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.Mar?
?a Teresa Herrera and Mar?
?a Estela Gonza?lezde Fauve.
1997.
Concordancias Electro?nicos del Cor-pus Me?dico Espan?ol.
Hispanic Seminary of MedievalStudies, Ltd. Madison, Wisconsin.Llyod Kasten, John Nitti, and Wilhemina Jonxis-Henkemens.
1997.
The Electronic Texts and Concor-dances of the Prose Works of Alfonso X, El Sabio.
His-panic Seminary of Medieval Studies, Ltd. Madison,Wisconsin.Anke Lu?deling, Hagen Hirschmann, and Amir Zeldes.to appear.
Variationism and underuse statistics in theanalysis of the development of relative clauses in ger-man.
In Yuji Kawaguchi, Makoto Minegishi, andWolfgang Viereck, editors, Corpus Analysis and Di-achronic Linguistics.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.John Nitti and Lloyd Kasten.
1997.
The Electronic Textsand Concordances of Medieval Navarro-AragoneseManuscripts.
Hispanic Seminary of Medieval Studies,Ltd.
Madison, Wisconsin.John O?Neill.
1999.
Electronic Texts and Concordancesof the Madison Corpus of Early Spanish Manuscriptsand Printings.
Hispanic Seminary of Medieval Stud-ies, Ltd. Madison, Wisconsin.Llu?
?s Padro?, Miquel Collado, Samuel Reese, MarinaLloberes, and Irene Castello?n.
2010.
Freeling 2.1:Five years of open-source language processing tools.In Proceedings of 7th Language Resources and Eval-uation Conference (LREC 2010), ELRA, La Valletta,Malta, May 2010.Helena Raumolin-Brunberg and Terttu Nevalainen.2007.
The York-Toronto-Helsinki Parsed Corpus ofOld English Prose.
In J.C. Beal, K. P. Corrigan, andH.
L. Moisl, editors, Creating and Digitizing Lan-guage Corpora.
Volume 2: Diachronic Databases,pages 148?171.
Palgrave Macmillan, Hampshire.P.
Rayson, D. Archer, A. Baron, and N. Smith.
2007.Tagging historical corpora - the problem of spellingvariation.
In Proceedings of Digital Historical Cor-pora, Dagstuhl-Seminar 06491, International Con-ference and Research Center for Computer Science,Schloss Dagstuhl, Wadern, Germany, 3rd-8th Decem-ber 2006.Eir?
?kur Ro?gnvaldsson and Sigru?n Helgado?ttir.
2008.Morphological tagging of old norse texts and its use instudying syntactic variation and change.
In 2nd Work-shop on Language Technology for Cultural HeritageData, LREC 2008 workshop, Marrakech.Eyal Sagi, Stefan Kaufmann, and Brady Clark.
2009.Semantic density analysis: Comparing word meaningacross time and phonetic space.
In Roberto Basiliand Marco Pennacchiotti, editors, Proceedings of theEACL 2009 Workshop on GEMS: GEometrical Mod-els of Natural Language Semantics, Athens.Cristina Sa?nchez-Marco, Gemma Boleda, Josep MariaFontana, and Judith Domingo.
2010.
Annotation andrepresentation of a diachronic corpus of spanish.
InProceedings of Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC), Malta, May 2010.Pedro Sa?nchez-Prieto.
2005.
La normalizacio?n delcastellano escrito en el siglo xiii.
Los caracteres dela lengua: graf?
?as y fonemas.
In Rafael Cano, editor,Historia de la lengua espan?ola, pages 199?213.
Ariel,Barcelona.Nu?ria Sebastia?n, M. Anto`nia Mart?
?, Manuel FranciscoCarreiras, and Fernando Cuetos.
2000.
Le?xico in-formatizado del espan?ol.
Edicions Universitat deBarcelona, Barcelona.Ann Taylor.
2007.
The York-Toronto-Helsinki ParsedCorpus of Old English Prose.
In J.C. Beal, K. P. Corri-gan, and H. L. Moisl, editors, Creating and DigitizingLanguage Corpora.
Volume 2: Diachronic Databases,pages 196?227.
Palgrave Macmillan, Hampshire.9
