Proceedings of the Workshop on Language in Social Media (LSM 2011), pages 58?65,Portland, Oregon, 23 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnalyzing the Dynamic Evolution of Hashtags on Twitter:a Language-Based ApproachEvandro Cunha1 Gabriel Magno1 Giovanni Comarela1Virgilio Almeida1 Marcos Andr?
Gon?alves1 Fabr?cio Benevenuto21Computer Science Department, Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), Brazil2Computer Science Department, Federal University of Ouro Preto (UFOP), Brazil{evandrocunha, magno, giovannicomarela,virgilio, mgoncalv, fabricio}@dcc.ufmg.brAbstractHashtags are used in Twitter to classifymessages, propagate ideas and also to promotespecific topics and people.
In this paper, wepresent a linguistic-inspired study of how thesetags are created, used and disseminated by themembers of information networks.
We studythe propagation of hashtags in Twitter groundedon models for the analysis of the spread oflinguistic innovations in speech communities,that is, in groups of people whose memberslinguistically influence each other.
Differentlyfrom traditional linguistic studies, though, weconsider the evolution of terms in a live andrapidly evolving stream of content, which canbe analyzed in its entirety.
In our experimentalresults, using a large collection crawled fromTwitter, we were able to identify someinteresting aspects ?
similar to those found instudies of (offline) speech ?
that led us tobelieve that hashtags may effectively serve asmodels for characterizing the propagation oflinguistic forms, including: (1) the existence ofa ?preferential attachment process?, that makesthe few most common terms ever more popular,and (2) the relationship between the length of atag and its frequency of use.
The understandingof formation patterns of successful hashtags inTwitter can be useful to increase theeffectiveness of real-time streaming searchalgorithms.1 IntroductionThe use of hashtags is a way to categorizemessages posted on Twitter, an important socialnetworking and microblogging service with 175million registered users (Twitter, 2010), accordingto the topic of the message.
They can be used notonly to add context and metadata to the posts, butalso for promotion and publicity.
By simply addinga hash symbol (#) before a string of letters,numerical digits or underscore signs (_), it ispossible to tag a message, helping other users tofind tweets that have a common topic.
Hashtagsallow users to create communities of peopleinterested in the same topic by making it easier forthem to find and share information related to it(Kricfalusi, 2009).
Figure 1 shows an example ofquery for the tag ?#basketball?, which returns thenewest tweets with this hashtag.Figure 1.
Example of query for a hashtag on Twitter.Hashtags are not case-sensitive, thus ?#basketball?
alsoreturns ?#Basketball?, for example.
Tweets with theterm ?basketball?
(without the hash symbol) do notappear in a search for hashtags.58As hashtags are created by the usersthemselves, a new social event can lead to thesimultaneous emergence of several different tags,each one generated by a different user.
They caneither be accepted by other members of thenetwork or not.
In this manner, some propagateand thrive, while others die immediately after birthand are restricted to a few messages.Similarly, lexical innovations occur when newterms are added to the lexicon of a language, eitherthrough the creation of new words, the reuse ofexisting words or the loan from other languages,for example.
An innovation tends to come fromone speaker, who proposes it to other members ofhis speech community ?
i.e., to whom he isconnected in a network of linguistic contacts andinfluences.
Afterwards, these speakers make acultural selection of the innovation, accepting it orrejecting it.In the context of the network theory, Figure 2indicates two moments of a novelty?s propagationprocess: the precise time of the innovation (left)and a later point (right), when some individualshave accepted the innovation, while others,although possibly knowing it, didn?t.
Aninnovative linguistic form can get, for somereason, some prestige, and maybe speakers beginto use it, taking it under certain circumstances andtransforming it into a variation of the previouslyhegemonic form.Figure 2.
Subgraphs from our Twitter dataset showingtwo distinct moments in the process of spreading aninnovation.
The black nodes indicate individuals whojoined the innovation (in this case, the hashtag#musicmonday) at a given moment; the white onesindicate individuals who didn?t.
The links representfollower relationship.The diffusion of innovations, be they linguistic,behavioral, technological, etc., occurs through acascade in which the network members,consciously or not, make choices, taking intoaccount a number of factors that determine whichforms, behaviors or technologies are moreadvantageous to be adopted in a given moment(Easley and Kleinberg, 2010).An important question in the field of linguisticsis: how can an initially rare variant spread to anentire linguistic network, or speech community(Sapir, 1921)?
How does the linguistic change takeout (Silva, 2006)?
This change, consisting in thedissemination of less common variants to much ofthe network or even across the entire network, canbe seen as an unexpected fact.
However, it occurs.Thus, to better understand the phenomenon oflanguage change, it seems essential to understandthe propagation behavior of innovative forms.Understanding how these forms spread ?
how andwhere they are born, who are the majordisseminators, which network features allowgreater dissemination ?
is the main objective of ourresearch group.In this work, we examine aspects of thedissemination of hashtags in Twitter, aiming atunderstanding the process of propagation ofinnovative hashtags in light of linguistic theories.The utilization of an online social network?sdataset alows the review of a linguistic system inits entirety, thereby eliminating the need to workwith sampling.
It also allows the verification oftemporal propagation, enabling a more preciseunderstanding of the path followed by innovationsin the network.Here, we seek to answer mostly two questions:(1) does the distribution of the hashtags infrequency rankings follow some pattern, as thewords in the lexicon of a language?
(2) Is thelength of a hashtag a factor that influences to itssuccess or failure?
Our assumption is thatidentifying linguistic features related to thecreation and usage of hashtags in Twitter may raiseawareness about individuals?
tagging behaviorover networks, which is an interesting topic in thefield of Network Sciences, Sociology and SocialPsychology.
Beyond that, this kind of analysisshould be interesting to optimize tagrecommendation systems not only on Twitter, buton many other online environments, and toincrease the effectiveness of real-time streamingsearch algorithms.In the next section, we will discuss relatedworks in Linguistics and in Computer Science.
Wetry to always keep contact with linguistic theories,59as we believe that complex issues, involving manyaspects together, can be better analyzed through amultidisciplinary approach.
The following sectionscover discussions and the empirical research thatwas conducted during this study.2 Related workMuch has been written about linguisticinnovations, language variation and languagechange since Weinreich et al (1968), which isconsidered one of the ground works forsociolinguistics.
More recently, Troutman et al(2008) conducted a study with the purpose ofsimulating language change in a speechcommunity.
They built a computational modelbased on characteristics from language users andfrom social network structures and tested it indifferent scenarios,  obtaining a probabilisticmodel that captures many of the key features oflanguage change.
Our work extends the traditionalway of conducting research on sociolinguistics aswe used a corpus of non-natural language data andeven so we found compatible results to the onesobtained from natural language data.Kwak et al (2010) were the first to study in aquantitative way the topological characteristics ofTwitter, information diffusion on it and its poweras a new medium of information sharing.
Theiranalyses are in some way related to the ones weperform here.
Chew and Eysenbach (2010) led astudy that investigated the keywords ?swine flu?and ?H1N1?
on Twitter during the 2009 H1N1pandemic.
The goals of this work were to monitorthe use of these terms over time, to conduct acontent analysis of tweets and to validate Twitteras a trend-tracking tool.
They found the existenceof variability in the use of the terms, which is aconstitutive aspect of human language.
Ourfindings complement, with more focus on thelinguistic approach, what they have discovered,revealing new aspects that can link the creation ofhashtags to linguistic innovations.Romero et al (2011) studied the mechanics ofinformation diffusion on Twitter.
They analyzedthe phenomenon of the spread of hashtags, butfocusing on the variations of the diffusion featuresacross different topics.
Their work introduces themeasures ?stickiness?
?
the probability of adoptionof one hashtag based on the number of exposures ?and ?persistence?
?
which captures how rapidly theinfluence curve decays.
We analyze hashtags aswell, but in a different perspective, concentratingon the characteristics that they may have incommon with natural language.3 Dataset and methodologyIn our study, we use a dataset consisting of about 2billion follow links among almost 55 million users.Twitter allowed the collection of data for eachexisting user, including their social connections,and all the tweets they ever posted.
Out of allusers, about 8% of the profiles were set private bythe users themselves, and only authorizedfollowers could view their tweets.
We ignore theseusers in our analysis.
In total, we analyzed morethan 1.7 billion tweets posted between July 2006and August 2009.
For a comprehensive descriptionof the data collected we refer the reader to Cha etal.
(2010).As, in some of our analysis, we intend tocompare features of the variation of hashtags tolinguistic variation, we must find interchangeablehashtags, i.e., different tags used with the samepurpose, to characterize messages on the sametopic.
This corresponds to the basic feature ofvariant linguistic forms, which are used bydifferent speakers, or at different moments, toname the same object, action etc.
Aiming to findinterchangeable hashtags, we collected tweets onspecific topics.
In this way, we could verify theexistence of different hashtags used to categorizemessages that could be grouped into one category.For example, hashtags like #michaeljackson #mj,#jackson, among many others, refer to the samesubject and in a managed environment they wouldprobably be condensed under only one tag.We selected three relevant topics of this period,namely: Michael Jackson (the singer?s death hasbeen widely reported in the social networks),Swine Flu (the epidemic of H1N1 was a majorissue of 2009), and Music Monday (this topic isrelated to a very successful campaign in favor ofposting tweets related to music on Mondays).Then, we built one minor base for each one of thetopics: MJ (referring to Michael Jackson), SF(referring to Swine Flu) and MM (referring toMusic Monday).
These bases were formed byfiltering tweets that: (1) included at least onehashtag and (2) included at least one of thefollowing terms that we considered related to the60topics: ?michael jackson?
(for the base MJ),?swine flu?
or ?#swineflu?
(for the base SF), and?#musicmonday?
(for the base MM).Consequently, in the base MJ, for example, wegathered all the tweets that included the term?michael jackson?
and that had at least onehashtag, even if this tag had no direct relationshipwith the topic.Table 1 presents data from each base: numberof tweets posted, number of users who postedtweets, number of follow links among users of thebase and number of different hashtags used in thetweets of the base.Table 1.
Summary information about the bases built.4 Comparing Twitter to a naturallinguistic systemThe directionality of both networks we arestudying, i.e.
Twitter and speech communities, inaddition to the resemblance between the creationof hashtags and linguistic innovations, is animportant similarity between these systems.
It ledto the hypothesis that these structures would havemore issues in common.In this section, we discuss these qualitativesimilarities, in order to justify the followingquantitative comparisons.4.1 Hashtags and linguistic innovationsA linguistic innovation can be described as anychange in any existing language system (Breivikand Jahr, 1989).
In linguistics, to say that there wasan innovation means that there was a modification,a transformation, in any part of the language ?phonetics, phonology, syntax, semantics etc.
Thisnovelty is neither degeneration, nor animprovement: language changes and evolves, as aliving being, in order to adapt itself to the societyin which it is inserted.We use linguistic knowledge to analyze andexplain phenomena related to the creation, usageand dissemination of hashtags.
We see similaritiesbetween these two systems: like linguisticinnovations, new hashtags are created byindividuals when they feel the need to categorizetheir messages with a term not yet used for thispurpose.
This reflects the speaker?s need to createa term, for example, to name an object or an actionthat he/she was not acquainted with in the offlineworld.Just like hashtags can fail and be used onlyonce, a linguistic innovation may not exceed theboundaries of its creator?s language.
An innovationcan be used in a specific situation and fall intooblivion, like many linguistic forms which are lostwithout even being recorded.4.2 Directionality of the graphsTwitter?s network can be described as a directedgraph.
On this social network, relations betweenusers are not necessarily symmetrical, whichmeans that it is possible for someone to followanother person without being followed by him/her.This is very clear when we talk about celebritieswho have millions of followers, but at the sametime follow only a few users.This characteristic corresponds to the generalabsence of directionality of offline social networks.Not only on Twitter the edges can go one-way: inthe ?real world?, we are somehow connected tocelebrities, athletes and famous politicians, and wehear what they say.
We are all part of the samespeech community, in the sense that a celebrity isable to influence the way we use language.However, they certainly do not even know who weare: it is like on Twitter?s graph, where we followthem, but they do not follow us.5 Rich-get-richer phenomenon and Zipf?slawEasley and Kleinberg (2010) characterize what isknown as ?rich-get-richer phenomenon?
or?preferential attachment process?
: in somesystems, the popularity of the most common itemstends to increase faster than the popularity of theless common ones.
It generates a further spread ofthe forms that achieve a certain prestige.Zipf (1949) examined and confirmed that thefrequency of words in English and in otherlanguages follow a power law.
Aiming to verify ifany kind of pattern is followed in the tagsdistribution, we analyzed our data from Twitter.Tables 2 and 3 display information on thedistribution of hashtags in each of the basesBase Tweets Users Follow linksDifferenthashtagsMJ 221,128 91,176 3,171,118 19,679SF 295,333 83,211 5,806,407 17,196MM 835,883 196,411 7,136,213 16,00561studied.
By ?i-tweet hashtags?, we mean thehashtags that appear in at most i tweets.
They arethe less common ones.
By ?j-tweet hashtags?, wemean the hashtags that appear in at least j tweets,that is, the most popular ones.Table 2.
Distribution of less common hashtags of eachbase.Table 3.
Distribution of most popular hashtags of eachbase.The percentage of hashtags according to thenumber of tweets in which they appear areremarkably very similar in the three bases.
It seemsto confirm the possible existence of a ?rich-get-richer?
pattern: few hashtags ?
the most popularones ?
are used in most of the tweets, while thevast majority of them are used in only a few posts.Table 2 shows that around 60% of hashtags areused only once in tweets of the respective base, i.e.do not propagate to the rest of the network; around90% of them are not used more than ten times,which shows that the great part of the hashtags getrestricted to only one user or to a very smallcommunity of users.On the other hand, just like Zipf (1949) showedfor natural languages, the most used hashtags getvery high frequencies of use.
Table 4 shows datafrom the three most used hashtags in each of thebases and makes clear that, also on Twitter, aperson?s behavior depends on the choices made byother people (Easley and Kleinberg, 2010).Complementing these data, Figure 3 associatesthe position of a hashtag in a popularity ranking(based on the number of times that a hashtag hasbeen used) to the volume of tweets in which itappears.
A plot in log-log coordinates, where x is arank of a tag in the frequency table and y is thetotal number of the tag?s occurrences in tweets,shows that the distribution of hashtags on Twitteralso follow the general trend of a Zipfiandistribuction, appearing approximately linear onlog-log plot.Table 4.
Data from the most used hashtags of each base.Below each hashtag are given the number of times itwas used and the percentage that it represents of thetotal use of hashtags in the base.Figure 3.
A log-log plot showing volume of tweets inwhich the hashtag was used vs. its position in apopularity ranking.Only three values on the left, which refer totags that occupy the top positions in the frequencyranking (and thus were used more often), are notwell described by the interpolations: the mostfrequent tag on MM base and the two mostfrequent ones on SF base.
This is due to the veryhigh usage of these hashtags: #musicmondayappeared in almost 830,000 tweets of its base;#swineflu, in more than 230,000; and #h1n1, inmore than 70,000.
The other values, however,show that this is a very good fitting model for ourpurposes.It is interesting to notice the similarity of resultsdespite being completely different topics.
Even the% of i-tweet hashtags inside the base Base i=1 i=2 i=10MJ 59% 72% 88%SF 59% 73% 92%MM 60% 74% 91%number of j-tweet hashtags inside the base Base j=10,000 j=5,000 j=1,000MJ 3 6 28SF 3 4 14MM 2 3 28Base Most used 2nd most used 3rd most usedMJ#michaeljackson35,86112.3%#michael27,2989.3%#mj16,7585.7%SF#swineflu230,45751.5%#h1n170,69315.8%#swine12,4442.8%MM#musicmonday824,77879.7%#musicmondays11,7701.1%#music5,1060.5%62slopes of the interpolation curves are similar,varying from -1.037 to -1.163.6 Hashtag length and frequencyEach word or phrase spoken by someone tells astory and reflects characteristics of this individualand his/her group.
According to the Theory ofLanguage Variation and Change (Weinreich et al,1968; Labov, 1995, 2001), lexical choice is theresult of a series of social interactions that make upand form, little by little, the individual speech.Naturally, these interactions and influences are sosubtle that we ourselves hardly realize them:gender, age, location, social role, hierarchicalposition in an organization ?
all this reflects theway we use language in various situations ofeveryday life.
Understanding what makes speakerschoose one of the forms in variation, in certainsituations, is one of the goals of Sociolinguistics.In addition to these social factors that influencethe way we express ourselves, described by Labov(2001), there are also many strictly linguisticfactors which perform such influence, as Labov(1995) presents.
One of these factors seems to bethe length of the words, as noted by Zipf (1935)and analyzed by Sigurd et al (2004).Zipf (1935) suggests that the length of a wordtends to bear an inverse relationship, notnecessarily proportionate, to its relative frequency.Sigurd et al (2004) analyze data from differenttext genres in English and Swedish and corroboratethe hypothesis, showing that longer words tend tobe avoided, presumably because they areuneconomic.Given this evidence, and considering theconcern of Twitter users to save space, since themaximum size of each tweet is 140 characters, weinvestigate whether the length of a hashtag is oneof the strictly linguistic factors that influence ontheir success or failure.In order to carry out this analysis, we comparedthe length of the most popular hashtags in each ofthe bases with the less popular ones.
We noticedthat the most popular ones are simple, direct andshort; on the other hand, among those with littleutilization, many are formed by long strings ofcharacters.
Table 5 displays preliminaryinformation about the length of hashtags andpopularity and shows that hashtags formed by 15or more characters are not present among the mostused tags.Table 6 lists the average length, in number ofcharacters, of different groups of hashtags, dividedaccording to their positions in the ranking offrequency of each base.Table 5.
Confrontation of most common hashtags andmost common 15-character hashtags.
In front of eachhashtag is given the number of times it was used intweets of the base.Table 6.
Average length of the most and the less popularhashtags.
The samples with the less popular hashtagswere formed by 50 randomly selected hashtags amongthose which appeared only in one tweet of each base.In all of the bases, the average length of themost popular hashtags is considerably lower to theaverage length of the less popular ones.
Figure 4compares data from Table 6, including informationabout standard deviation.
It is clear that thedifferences between the lengths of the few mostpopular tags are not relevant, as the averagelengths of the k most popular tags, withk={10,20,30,40,50}, are roughly similar and do notfollow a fixed pattern.
However, the comparisonwith 1-tweet hashtags (less popular ones) showsimportant differences which led us to believe thatthe length of a hashtag may be an internal factor ?or a strictly linguistic factor ?
that determines thesuccess or the failure of tags on Twitter, even ifmore accurate study is needed at this point.Most commonhashtags(number of tweets)Most common hashtagswith 15 or more characters(number of tweets)#michaeljackson (35,861)#michael (27,298)#mj (16,758)#nothingpersonal (962)#iwillneverforget (912)#thankyoumichael (690)#swineflu (230,457)#h1n1 (70,693)#swine (12,444)#swinefluhatesyou (1,056)#crapnamesforpubs (145)#superhappyfunflu (124)#musicmonday (824,778)#musicmondays (11,770)#music (5,106)#musicmondayhttp (540)#fatpeoplearesexier (471)#crapurbanlegends (23)Average length of......the k most popular hashtags Topick=10 k=20 k=30 k=40 k=50...the lesspopularhashtagsMJ 7.1 6.85 7.8 8.02 7.74 10.16SF 5.3 7.35 7.17 7.2 7.04 10.3MM 9.5 8.4 7.27 6.4 5.92 11.6663This reflects the small number of hashtagscomposed of complete sentences (such as#mileycometobrazil, #herewegoagain and manyothers) occupying good positions in the popularityrankings.
Their low standard of success can beattributed to some reasons besides their increasedlength, such as: (1) sentences admit high rate ofvariation (e.g.
#thankyoumichael, #thanksmj,#michaeljacksonthanks), which reduces thefrequency of each of the competing forms; (2)sentences are more difficult to memorize, as theymay accept different word orders; and (3) insentences, it seems to be more prone tomisspellings (as in #thanktyoumichael), maybebecause of the apparent difficulty of reading theterms without the ordinary spaces between them(we believe that it is easier to notice themisspelling in "thankt you michael" than in"thanktyoumichael", though this is an assumptionthat must be verified through more extensive workin Psycholinguistics and Applied Linguistics).Figure 4.
Average number of characters of the mostpopular hashtags and of a randomly selected sample of50 less common tags.7 Underscores in hashtagsWe conducted an analysis to check the influence ofthe only sign allowed in the formation of hashtagsbesides letters and numbers: the underscore (_).
Inall the bases, the use of the sign _ led the hashtagsto low popularity rankings: #michael_jacksonreached position 248 in its base, with only 128tweets; #swine_flu reached position 67 in its base,with no more than 246 tweets; #music_mondaywasn?t even used.
Table 7 shows the use of sign _in hashtags.
Here, we call a ?_-hashtag?
anyhashtag in which has been used the sign _.Table 7.
Distribution of hashtags containing the sign?_?.We can observe that almost all of the _-hashtagshave lower positions in the popularity rankings: atleast 97% of them are used in 10 or less tweets,which seems to indicate rejection to this sign.
Onceagain, the distributions corresponding to each ofthe bases are similar, suggesting a uniformbehavior across the whole network.8 ConclusionThis paper examines, through a language-basedapproach, some issues concerning the formationand the usage of hashtags on Twitter.
We proposedthat linguistic theory could be used to formulatehypothesis on online systems like Twitter and ouranalysis showed not only qualitative, but alsoquantitative similarities between offline and onlinespeech communities.We revealed interesting aspects about thedistribution of hashtags according to theirpopularity, associating it to the distribution ofwords in frequency rankings.
We also went furtheron the question suggested by Romero et al (2011),who proposed to consider what distinguishes ahashtag that spreads widely from one that fails toattract attention: we could find that the tag?slength, for example, is one of these factors.
Thiskind of analysis can be a useful tool for tagrecommendation systems in differentenvironments, but there are a number of otheraspects which can be considered in future workand that can collaborate to the study of humantagging behavior.% of _-hashtags among i-tweethashtags BaseNumberof _-hashtags  i=2 i=10MJ 251 (1.2%) 89% 97%SF 155 (0.9%) 87% 97%MM 143 (0.9%) 89% 98%64ReferencesBreivik, L.E., and Jahr, E.H.
(Eds.)
1989.
Languagechange: Contributions to the study of its causes.Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.Cha, M., Haddadi, H., Benevenuto, F., and Gummadi,K.P.
(2010).
Measuring user influence in Twitter:The million follower fallacy.
Int?l AAAI Conferenceon Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM?10).Washington DC, USA.Chew C., and Eysenbach G. 2010.
Pandemics in the ageof Twitter: Content analysis of tweets during the2009 H1N1 outbreak.
PLoS ONE 5(11): e14118.doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014118Easley, D., and Kleinberg, J.
2010.
Networks, crowds,and markets: Reasoning about a highly connectedworld.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Kricfalusi, E. 2009.
The Twitter hash tag: What is it andhow do you use it?
Retrieved fromhttp://tinyurl.com/bw85z2Kwak, H., Lee, C., Park, H., and Moon, S. 2010.
Whatis Twitter, a social network or a news media?International World Wide Web Conference (WWW2010).
Raleigh, USA.Labov, W. 1995.
Principles of linguistic change:Internal factors.
Reprint.
Oxford/Cambridge:Blackwell.Labov, W. 2001.
Principles of linguistic change: Socialfactors.
Oxford/Cambridge: Blackwell.Romero, D., Meeder, B., and Kleinberg, J.
2011.Differences in the mechanics of informationdiffusion across topics: Idioms, political hashtags,and complex contagion on Twitter.
InternationalWorld Wide Web Conference (WWW 2011).Hyderabad, India.Sapir, E. 1921.
Language: An introduction to the studyof speech.
New York: Harcourt, Brace and World.Sigurd, B., Eeg-Olofsson M., and Van de Weijer, J.2004.
World length, sentence length and frequency ?Zipf revisited.
Studia Linguistica 58(1), (pp.37-52).Oxford/Malden: Blackwell.Silva, L.G.
2006.
A dimens?o socioling?
?stica do AtlasLing?
?stico do Brasil.
Anais da VIII Semana deLetras da Universidade Federal de Ouro Preto.
OuroPreto, Brazil: Universidade Federal de Ouro Preto.Troutman, C., Clark, B., and Goldrick, M. 2008.
Socialnetworks and intraspeaker variation during periods oflanguage change.
Proceedings of the 31st AnnualPenn Linguistics Colloquium.
(pp.325-338).Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania.Twitter, 2010.
About Twitter: A few Twitter facts.Retrieved from http://twitter.com/about.Weinreich, U., Labov, W., and Herzog, M. 1968.Empirical foundations for a theory of languagechange.
In Lehmann W., and Malkiel Y.
(Eds.
),Directions for historical linguistics (pp.97-195).Austin: University of Texas Press.Zipf, G.K. 1935 (reprinted 1965).
The psycho-biology oflanguage.
Cambridge: MIT Press.Zipf, G.K. 1949.
Human behavior and the principle ofleast effort.
Cambridge: Addison-Wesley.65
