Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics, pages 76?87,Portland, Oregon, June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsChameleons in imagined conversations: A new approach to understandingcoordination of linguistic style in dialogsCristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Lillian LeeDepartment of Computer Science, Cornell Universitycristian@cs.cornell.edu, llee@cs.cornell.eduAbstractConversational participants tend to immedi-ately and unconsciously adapt to each other?slanguage styles: a speaker will even adjust thenumber of articles and other function words intheir next utterance in response to the numberin their partner?s immediately preceding utter-ance.
This striking level of coordination isthought to have arisen as a way to achieve so-cial goals, such as gaining approval or empha-sizing difference in status.
But has the adap-tation mechanism become so deeply embed-ded in the language-generation process as tobecome a reflex?
We argue that fictional di-alogs offer a way to study this question, sinceauthors create the conversations but don?t re-ceive the social benefits (rather, the imaginedcharacters do).
Indeed, we find significant co-ordination across many families of functionwords in our large movie-script corpus.
Wealso report suggestive preliminary findings onthe effects of gender and other features; e.g.,surprisingly, for articles, on average, charac-ters adapt more to females than to males.1 Introduction?...it is dangerous to base any sociolinguistic argu-mentation on the evidence of language in fictionaltexts only?
(Bleichenbacher (2008), crediting Mare?
(2000))The chameleon effect is the ?nonconsciousmimicry of the postures, mannerisms, facial expres-sions, and other behaviors of one?s interaction part-ners?
(Chartrand and Bargh, 1999).1 For exam-ple, if one conversational participant crosses their1The term is a reference to the movie Zelig, wherein a ?hu-arms, their partner often unconsciously crosses theirarms as well.
The effect occurs for language, too,ranging from matching of acoustic features such asaccent, speech rate, and pitch (Giles et al, 1991;Chartrand and van Baaren, 2009) to lexico-syntacticpriming across adjacent or nearby utterances (Bock,1986; Pickering and Garrod, 2004; Ward and Lit-man, 2007; Reitter et al, 2011).Our work focuses on adjacent-utterance coordina-tion with respect to classes of function words.
To ex-emplify the phenomenon, we discuss two short con-versations.?
First example: The following exchange from themovie ?The Getaway?
(1972) demonstrates quanti-fier coordination.Doc: At least you were outside.Carol: It doesn?t make much difference where you are [...]Note that ?Carol?
used a quantifier, one that is differ-ent than the one ?Doc?
employed.
Also, notice that?Carol?
could just as well have replied in a way thatdoesn?t include a quantifier, for example, ?It doesn?treally matter where you are...?.?
Second example: Levelt and Kelter (1982) reportan experiment involving preposition coordination.Shopkeepers who were called and asked ?
At whattime does your shop close??
were significantly morelikely to say ?
At five o?clock?
than ?five o?clock?.2man chameleon?
uncontrollably takes on the characteristics ofthose around him.
The term is meant to contrast with ?aping?,a word connoting intentional imitation.Related terms include adaptation, alignment, entrainment,priming, and Du Bois?
dialogic syntax.2This is an example of lexical matching manifested as partof syntactic coordination.76Coordination of function-word class has been pre-viously documented in several settings (Niederhof-fer and Pennebaker, 2002; Taylor and Thomas,2008; Ireland et al, 2011; Gonzales et al, 2010),the largest-scale study being on Twitter (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al, 2011).Problem setting People don?t consciously trackfunction words (Levelt and Kelter, 1982; Segalowitzand Lane, 2004; Petten and Kutas, 1991) ?
it?s noteasy to answer the question, ?how many preposi-tions were there in the sentence I just said??.
There-fore, it is quite striking that humans nonetheless in-stantly adapt to each other?s function-word rates.
In-deed, there is active debate regarding what mecha-nisms cause nonconscious coordination (Ireland etal., 2011; Branigan et al, 2010).One line of thought is that convergence representsa social strategy3 whose aim is to gain the other?s so-cial approval (Giles, 2008; Street and Giles, 1982)or enhance the other?s comprehension (Clark, 1996;Bortfeld and Brennan, 1997).4 This hypothesis issupported by studies showing that coordination is af-fected by a number of social factors, including rel-ative social status (Natale, 1975; Gregory and Web-ster, 1996; Thakerar et al, 1982) and gender role(Bilous and Krauss, 1988; Namy et al, 2002; Ire-land and Pennebaker, 2010).But an important question is whether the adap-tation mechanism has become so deeply embed-ded in the language-generation process as to havetransformed into a reflex not requiring any socialtriggering.5 Indeed, it has been argued that un-conscious mimicry is partly innate (Chartrand andBargh, 1999), perhaps due to evolutionary pressureto foster relationships (Lakin et al, 2003).To answer this question, we take a radical ap-proach: we consider a setting in which the per-sons generating the coordinating dialog are differentfrom those engaged in the dialog (and standing toreap the social benefits) ?
imagined conversations,specifically, scripted movie dialogs.3In fact, social signaling may also be the evolutionary causeof chameleons?
color-changing ability (Stuart-Fox et al, 2008).4For the purpose of our discussion, we are conflating social-approval and audience-design hypotheses under the category ofsocial strategy.5This hypothesis relates to characterizations of alignment asan unmediated mechanism (Pickering and Garrod, 2004).Life is beautiful, but cinema is paradise A pri-ori, it is not clear that movie conversations would ex-hibit convergence.
Dialogs between movie charac-ters are not truthful representations of real-life con-versations.
They often are ?too carefully polished,too rhythmically balanced, too self-consciously art-ful?
(Kozloff, 2000), due to practical and artis-tic constraints and scriptwriting practice (McKee,1999).
For example, mundane phenomena such asstuttering and word repetitions are generally nonex-istent on the big screen.
Moreover, writers havemany goals to accomplish, including the need to ad-vance the plot, reveal character, make jokes as funnyas possible, and so on, all incurring a cognitive load.So, the question arises: do scripted movie di-alogs, in spite of this quasi-artificiality and theaforementioned generation/engagement gap, exhibitthe real-life phenomenon of stylistic convergence?When imagining dialogs, do scriptwriters (noncon-sciously6) adjust the respondent?s replies to echo theinitiator?s use of articles, prepositions, and other ap-parently minor aspects of lexical choice?
Accordingto our results, this is indeed the case, which has fas-cinating implications.First, this provides evidence that coordination, as-sumed to be driven by social motivations, has be-come so deeply embedded into our ideas of whatconversations ?sound like?
that the phenomenon oc-curs even when the person generating the dialog isnot the recipient of the social benefits.7Second, movies can be seen as a controlled en-vironment in which preconceptions about the rela-tion between communication patterns and the socialfeatures of the participants can be studied.
Thisgives us the opportunity to understand how people(scriptwriters) nonconsciously expect convergenceto relate to factors such as gender, status and rela-tion type.
Are female characters thought to accom-modate more to male characters than vice-versa?Furthermore, movie scripts constitute a corpusthat is especially convenient because meta-features6The phenomenon of real-life language convergence is notwidely known among screenplay authors (Beth F. Milles, pro-fessor of acting and directing, personal communication).7Although some writers may perhaps imagine themselves"in the shoes" of the recipients, recall that authors generallydon?t include in their scripts the repetitions and ungrammati-calities of "real-life" speech.77like gender can be more or less readily obtained.Contributions We check for convergence in acorpus of roughly 250,000 conversational exchangesfrom movie scripts (available at http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~cristian/movies).Specifically, we examine the set of nine families ofstylistic features previously utilized by Ireland etal.
(2011), and find a statistically significant con-vergence effect for all these families.
We therebyprovide evidence that language coordination is soimplanted within our conception of conversationalbehavior that, even if such coordination is sociallymotivated, it is exhibited even when the persongenerating the language in question is not receivingany of the presumed social advantages.We also study the effects of gender, narrative im-portance, and hostility.
Intriguingly, we find thatthese factors indeed ?affect?
movie characters?
lin-guistic behavior; since the characters aren?t real,and control of stylistic lexical choice is largely non-conscious, the effects of these factors can only bespringing from patterns existing in the scriptwriters?minds.Our findings, by enhancing our understanding oflinguistic adaptation effects in stylistic word choiceand its relation to various socially relevant factors,may in the future aid in practical applications.
Suchan understanding would give us insight into howand what kinds of language coordination yield moresatisfying interactions ?
convergence has been al-ready shown to enhance communication in organiza-tional contexts (Bourhis, 1991), psychotherapy (Fer-rara, 1991), care of the mentally disabled (Hamilton,1991), and police-community interactions (Giles etal., 2007).
Moreover, a deeper understanding can aidhuman-computer interaction by informing the con-struction of natural-language generation systems,since people are often more satisfied with encoun-ters exhibiting appropriate linguistic convergence(Bradac et al, 1988; van Baaren et al, 2003), evenwhen the other conversational participant is knownto be a computer (Nass and Lee, 2000; Branigan etal., 2010).2 Related work not already mentionedLinguistic style and human characteristics Us-ing stylistic (i.e., non-topical) elements like arti-cles and prepositions to characterize the utterer insome way has a long history, including in author-ship attribution (Mosteller and Wallace, 1984; Juola,2008), personality-type classification (Argamon etal., 2005; Oberlander and Gill, 2006; Mairesse et al,2007), gender categorization (Koppel et al, 2002;Mukherjee and Liu, 2010; Herring and Paolillo,2006), identification of interactional style (Jurafskyet al, 2009; Ranganath et al, 2009), and recognizingdeceptive language (Hancock et al, 2008; Mihalceaand Strapparava, 2009).Imagined conversations There has been work inthe NLP community applying computational tech-niques to fiction, scripts, and other types of textcontaining imagined conversations.
For example,one recent project identifies conversational networksin novels, with the goal of evaluating various liter-ary theories (Elson et al, 2010; Elson and McKe-own, 2010).
Movie scripts were used as word-sense-disambiguation evaluation data as part of an effortto generate computer animation from the scripts (Yeand Baldwin, 2006).
Sonderegger (2010) employeda corpus of English poetry to study the relation-ship between pronunciation and network structure.Rayson et al (2001) computed part-of-speech fre-quencies for imaginative writing in the British Na-tional Corpus, finding a typology gradient progress-ing from conversation to imaginative writing (e.g.,novels) to task-oriented speech to informative writ-ing.
The data analyzed by Oberlander and Gill(2006) consisted of emails that participants were in-structed to write by imagining that they were goingto update a good friend on their current goings-on.3 Movie dialogs corpusTo address the questions raised in the introduc-tion, we created a large set of imagined conver-sations, starting from movie scripts crawled fromvarious sites.8 Metadata for conversation analy-sis and duplicate-script detection involved mostly-automatic matching of movie scripts with the IMDBmovie database; clean-up resulted in 617 unique ti-tles tagged with genre, release year, cast lists, and8The source of these scripts and more detail about the corpusare given in the README associated with the Cornell movie-dialogs corpus, available at http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~cristian/movies .78IMDB information.
We then extracted 220,579conversational exchanges between pairs of charac-ters engaging in at least 5 exchanges, and auto-matically matched these characters to IMDB to re-trieve gender (as indicated by the designations ?ac-tor?
or ?actress?)
and/or billing-position informationwhen possible (?9000 characters, ?3000 gender-identified and ?3000 billing-positioned).
The latterfeature serves as a proxy for narrative importance:the higher up in the credits, the more important thecharacter tends to be in the film.To the best of our knowledge, this is the largestdataset of (metadata-rich) imaginary conversationsto date.4 Measuring linguistic styleFor consistency with prior work, we employed thenine LIWC-derived categories (Pennebaker et al,2007) deemed by Ireland et al (2011) to be pro-cessed by humans in a generally non-conscious fash-ion.
The nine categories are: articles, auxiliaryverbs, conjunctions, high-frequency adverbs, im-personal pronouns, negations, personal pronouns,prepositions, and quantifiers (451 lexemes total).It is important to note that language coordinationis multimodal: it does not necessarily occur simulta-neously for all features (Ferrara, 1991), and speakersmay converge on some features but diverge on others(Thakerar et al, 1982); for example, females havebeen found to converge on pause frequency withmale conversational partners but diverge on laugh-ter (Bilous and Krauss, 1988).5 Measuring convergenceNiederhoffer and Pennebaker (2002) use the correla-tion coefficient to measure accommodation with re-spect to linguistic style features.
While correlationat first seems reasonable, it has some problematic as-pects in our setting (we discuss these problems later)that motivate us to employ an alternative measure.We instead use a convergence measure introducedin Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al (2011) that quan-tifies how much a given feature family t serves as animmediate trigger or stimulus, meaning that one per-son?s utterance exhibiting such a feature triggers theappearance of that feature in the respondent?s imme-diate reply.For example, we might be studying whether oneperson A?s inclusion of articles in an utterance trig-gers the usage of articles in respondent B?s reply.Note that this differs from asking whether B uses ar-ticles more often when talking to A than when talk-ing to other people (it is not so surprising that peo-ple speak differently to different audiences).
Thisalso differs from asking whether B eventually startsmatching A?s behavior in later utterances within thesame conversation.
We specifically want to knowwhether each utterance by A triggers an immediatechange in B?s behavior, as such instantaneous adap-tation is what we consider the most striking aspectof convergence, although immediate and long-termcoordination are clearly related.We now describe the statistic we employ to mea-sure the extent to which person B accommodates toA.
Consider an arbitrary conversational exchangestarted by A, and let a denote A?s initiating utteranceand b?
?a denote B?s reply to a.9 Note that we uselowercase to emphasize when we are talking aboutindividual utterances rather than all the utterances ofthe particular person, and that thus, the arrow in b?
?aindicates that we mean the reply to the specific sin-gle utterance a.
Let at be the indicator variable for aexhibiting t, and similarly for bt??a.
Then, we definethe convergence ConvA,B(t) of B to A as:P (bt?
?a = 1|at = 1)?
P (bt?
?a = 1).
(1)Note that this quantity can be negative (indicatingdivergence).
The overall degree Conv(t) to which tserves as a trigger is then defined as the expectationof ConvA,B(t) over all initiator-respondent pairs:Conv(t)def= Epairs(A,B)(ConvA,B(t)).
(2)Comparison with correlation: the importanceof asymmetry10 Why do we employ ConvA,B ,Equation (1), instead of the well-known correlationcoefficient?
One reason is that correlation fails to9We use ?initiating?
and ?reply?
loosely: in our terminology,the conversation ?A: ?Hi.?
B: ?Eaten??
A: ?Nope.??
has twoexchanges, one initiated by A?s ?Hi?, the other by B?s ?Eaten?
?.10Other asymmetric measures based on conditional prob-ability of occurrence have been proposed for adaptationwithin monologues (Church, 2000) and between conversations(Stenchikova and Stent, 2007).
Since our focus is different, wecontrol for different factors.79capture an important asymmetry.
The case whereat = 1 but bt?
?a = 0 represents a true failure to ac-commodate; but the case where at = 0 but bt?
?a = 1should not, at least not to the same degree.
For ex-ample, a may be very short (e.g., ?What??)
and thusnot contain an article, but we don?t assume that thiscompletely disallows B from using articles in theirreply.
In other words, we are interested in whetherthe presence of t acts as a trigger, not in whetherb?
?a exhibits t if and only if a does, the latter beingwhat correlation detects.11It bears mentioning that since at and bt?
?a arebinary, a simple calculation shows that the covari-ance12 cov(at, bt?
?a) = ConvA,B(t) ?
P (at = 1).But, the two terms on the right hand side arenot independent: raising P (at = 1) could causeConvA,B(t) to decrease by affecting the first termin its definition, P (bt?
?a = 1|at = 1) (see eq.
1).6 Experimental results6.1 Convergence exists in fictional dialogsFor each ordered pair of characters (A,B) and foreach feature family t, we estimate equation (1) in astraightforward manner: the fraction of B?s repliesto t-manifesting A utterances that themselves ex-hibit t, minus the fraction of all replies of B to Athat exhibit t.13 Fig.
1 compares the average valuesof these two fractions (as a way of putting conver-gence values into context), showing positive differ-ences for all of the considered families of features(statistically significant, paired t-test p < 0.001); thisdemonstrates that movie characters do indeed con-verge to each other?s linguistic style on all consid-ered trigger families.1411One could also speculate that it is easier for B to (uncon-sciously) pick up on the presence of t than on its absence.12The covariance of two random variables is their correlationtimes the product of their standard deviations.13For each t, we discarded pairs of characters where somerelevant count is < 10, e.g., where B had fewer than 10 repliesmanifesting the trigger.14We obtained the same qualitative results when measuringconvergence via the correlation coefficient, doing so for the sakeof comparability with prior work (Niederhoffer and Pennebaker,2002; Taylor and Thomas, 2008).NegationIndef.pron.QuantifierAux.verbAdverbPers.
pron.ConjunctionArticlePreposition0.000.100.200.300.400.500.600.700.80Figure 1: Implicit depiction of convergence for each trig-ger family t, illustrated as the difference between themeans of P (bt?
?a = 1|at = 1) (right/light-blue bars) andP (bt?
?a = 1) (left/dark-blue bars).
(This implicit repre-sentation allows one to see the magnitude of the two com-ponents making up our definition of convergence.)
Thetrigger families are ordered by decreasing convergence.All differences are statistically significant (paired t-test).In all figures in this paper, error bars represent standarderror, estimated via bootstrap resampling (Koehn, 2004).
(Here, the error bars, in red, are very tight.
)Movies vs. Twitter One can ask how our resultson movie dialogs correspond to those for real-lifeconversations.
To study this, we utilize the resultsof Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al (2011) on a large-scale collection of Twitter exchanges as data onreal conversational exchanges.
Figure 2 depicts thecomparison, revealing two interesting effects.
First,Twitter users coordinate more than movie characterson all the trigger families we considered, which doesshow that the convergence effect is stronger in actualinterchanges.
On the other hand, from the perspec-tive of potentially using imagined dialogs as prox-ies for real ones, it is intriguing to see that there isgenerally a correspondence between how much con-vergence occurs in real dialogs for a given featurefamily and how much convergence occurs for thatfeature in imagined dialogs, although conjunctionsand articles show a bit less convergence in fictional80NegationIndef.pron.QuantifierConjunctionArticleAux.verbAdverbPers.pron.Preposition0.000.010.020.030.040.05ConvergenceTwitterMoviesFigure 2: Convergence in Twitter conversations (left bars)vs. convergence in movie dialogs (right bars; corre-sponds to the difference between the two respective barsin Fig.
1) for each trigger family.
The trigger families areordered by decreasing convergence in Twitter.ArticleAux.verbAdverbConjunctionIndef.pron.NegationPers.pron.PrepositionQuantifier0.010.000.010.020.030.040.05ConvergenceAdjacentNon-adjacentFigure 3: Immediate vs. within-conversation effects(for conversations with at least 5 utterances).
Sup-pose that we have a conversation a1 b2 a3 b4 a5 .
.
.. Thelefthand/dark-green bars show the usual convergencemeasure, which involves the utterance pair a1 and b2.
Therighthand/mustard-green bars show convergence basedon pairs like a1 and b4 ?
utterances in the same con-versation, but not adjacent.
We see that there is a muchstronger triggering effect for immediately adjacent utter-ances.exchanges than this pattern would suggest.6.2 Potential alternative explanationsImmediate vs. within-conversation effects Anadditional natural question is, how much are theseaccommodation effects due to an immediate trigger-ing effect, as opposed to simply being a by-productof utterances occurring within the same conversa-tion?
For instance, could the results be due just tothe topic of the conversation?To answer this question requires measuring ?con-vergence?
between utterances that are not adjacent,but are still in the same conversation.
To this end,we first restricted attention to those conversationsin which there were at least five utterances, so thatthey would have the structure a1 b2 a3 b4 a5.... Wethen measure convergence not between adjacent ut-terances, like a1 and b2, but where we skip an utter-ance, such as the pair a1, b4 or b2, a5.
This helpscontrol for topic effects, since b4 and a1 are stillclose and thus fairly likely to be on the same sub-ject.15Figure 3 shows that the level of convergence al-ways falls off after the skipped utterance, sometimesdramatically so, thus demonstrating that the levelof immediate adaptation effects we see cannot besolely explained by the topic of conversation or otherconversation-level effects.
These results accord withthe findings of Levelt and Kelter (1982), where in-terposing ?interfering?
questions lowered the chanceof a question?s preposition being echoed by the re-spondent, and Reitter et al (2006), where the effectsof structural priming were shown to decay quicklywith the distance between the priming trigger andthe priming target.Towards the same end, we also performed ran-domization experiments in which we shuffled the or-der of each participant?s utterances in each conversa-tion, while maintaining alternation between speak-ers.
We again observed drop-offs in this randomizedcondition in comparison to immediate convergence,the main focus of this paper.Self-coordination Could our results be explainedentirely by the script author converging to their ownself, given that self-alignment has been documented15It is true that they might be on different topics, but in facteven b2 might be on a different subject from a1.81(Pickering and Garrod, 2004; Reitter et al, 2006)?If that were the case, then the characters that the au-thor is writing about should converge to themselvesno more than they converge to different characters.But we ran experiments showing that this is not thecase, thus invalidating this alternative hypothesis.
Infact, characters converge to themselves much morethan they converge to other characters.6.3 Convergence and imagined relationWe now analyze how convergence patterns vary withthe type of relationship between the (imagined) par-ticipants.
Note that, given the multimodal charac-ter of convergence, treating each trigger family sep-arately is the most appropriate way to proceed, sincein past work, for the same experimental factor (e.g.,gender), different features converge differently (re-fer back to ?4).
For clarity of exposition, we discussin detail only the results for the Articles feature fam-ily; but the results for all trigger families are sum-marized in Fig.
7, discussed later.Imagined gender Fig.
4(a) shows how conver-gence on article usage depends on the gender of theinitiator and respondent.
Females are more influ-ential than males: movie characters of either gen-der accommodate more to female characters than tomale characters (compare the Female initiator barwith the Male initiator bar, statistically significant,independent t-test, p < 0.05).
Also, female char-acters seem to accommodate slightly more to othercharacters than male characters do (though not sta-tistically significantly so in our data).We also compare the amount of convergence be-tween all the possible types of gendered initiator-respondent pairs involved (Fig.
4(b)).
One can ob-serve, for example, that male characters adapt less insame-gender situations (Male-Male conversations)than in mixed-gender situations (Female initiator-Male respondent), while the opposite is true for fe-male characters (Female-Female vs.
Male-Female).Interpreting these results lies beyond the scopeof this paper.
We note that these results could bea correlate of many factors, such as the roles thatmale and female characters are typically assigned inmovie scripts.1616A comparison to previously reported results on real-lifegender effects is not straightforward, since they pertain to differ-Narrative importance Does the relative impor-tance bestowed by the scriptwriter to the charactersaffect the amount of linguistic coordination he or she(nonconsciously) embeds in their dialogs?
Fig.
5shows that, on average, the lead character convergesto the second-billed character more than vice-versa(compare left bar in 1st resp.
group with left bar in2nd resp.
group).One possible confounding factor is that there issignificant gender imbalance in the data (82% of alllead characters are males, versus only 51% of thesecondary characters).
Could the observed differ-ence be a direct consequence of the relation betweengender and convergence discussed above?
The an-swer is no: the same qualitative observation holds ifwe restrict our analysis to same-gender pairs (com-pare the righthand bars in each group in Fig.
517).It would be interesting to see whether these re-sults could be brought to bear on previous resultsregarding the relationship between social status andconvergence, but such interpretation lies beyond thescope of this paper, since the connection betweenbilling order and social status is not straightforward.Quarreling The level of contention in conversa-tions has also been shown to be related to the amountof convergence (Giles, 2008; Niederhoffer and Pen-nebaker, 2002; Taylor and Thomas, 2008).
To testwhether this tendency holds in the case of imaginedconversations, as a small pilot study, we manuallyclassified the conversations between 24 main pairsof characters from romantic comedies18 as: quarrel-ing, some quarreling and no quarreling.
Althoughthe experiment was too small in scale to providestatistical significance, the results (Fig.
6) suggestthat indeed the level of convergence is affected byent features; Ireland and Pennebaker (2010) show that femalesmatch their linguistic style more than males, where style match-ing is averaged over the same 9 trigger families we employ (theydo not report gender effect for each family separately).17Figure 5 also shows that our convergence measure doesachieve negative values in practice, indicating divergence.
Di-vergence is a rather common phenomenon which deserves at-tention in future work; see Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al(2011) for an account.18We chose the romantic comedy genre since it is often char-acterized by some level of contention between the two peoplein the main couple.82AllF init.Minit.F resp.Mresp.0.000.010.020.030.04Convergencearticle(a)AllM-M F-M M-F F-F0.000.010.020.030.04Convergencearticle(b)Figure 4: Relation between Article convergence and imagined gender.
(a) compares cases when the initiator andrespondent are Male or Female; (b) compares types of gendered initiator-respondent relations: Male-Male, Female-Male, Male-Female, Female-Female.
For comparison, the All bars represents the general Article convergence (illus-trated in Fig.
1 as the difference between the two respective bars).Indef.pron.ArticleConjunctionPrepositionAdverbPers.
pron.Aux.
verbNegationQuantifier0.0100.0050.0000.0050.0100.015(a) F resp.
minus M resp.ArticlePrepositionIndef.pron.ConjunctionPers.
pron.Aux.
verbNegationAdverbQuantifier0.0100.0050.0000.0050.0100.015(b) F init.
minus M init.ArticleNegationQuantifierAdverbPers.
pron.Indef.pron.PrepositionAux.
verbConjunction0.0100.0050.0000.0050.0100.015(c) 1st resp.
minus 2nd resp.Pers.
pron.ArticleIndef.pron.NegationConjunctionQuantifierAux.
verbPrepositionAdverb0.060.020.020.06(d) Quarrel minus No quarrelFigure 7: Summary of the relation between convergence and imagined gender (a and b), billing order (c), and quarrel-ing (d).
The bars represent the difference between the convergence observed in the respective cases; e.g., the Article(red) bar in (a) represents the difference between the F resp.
and the M resp.
bars in Fig.
4(a).
In each plot, thetrigger families are sorted according to the respective difference, but the color assigned to each family is consistentacross plots.
The scale of (d) differs from the others.the presence of controversy: quarreling exhibitedconsiderably more convergence for articles than theother categories (the same holds for personal and in-definite pronouns; see Fig.
7).
Interestingly, thereverse is true for adverbs; there, we observe di-vergence for contentious conversations and conver-gence for non-contentious conversations (detailedplot omitted due to space constraints).
This corre-sponds to Niederhoffer and Pennebaker?s (2002) ob-servations made on real conversations in their studyof the Watergate transcripts: when the relationshipbetween the two deteriorated, Richard Nixon con-verged more to John Dean on articles, but divergedon other features.19Results for the other features Our results abovesuggest some intriguing interplay between conver-gence and gender, status, and level of hostility inimagined dialogs, which may shed light on howpeople (scriptwriters) nonconsciously expect con-19Adverbs were not included in their study.83All1st resp.2nd resp.0.020.010.000.010.020.03ConvergencearticleFigure 5: Comparison of the convergence of first-billed(lead) characters to second-billed characters (left bar in1st resp.
group) to that of second-billed characters toleads (left bar in 2nd resp.
group); righthand bars (darkgreen) in each group show results for Male-Male pairsonly.vergence to relate to such factors.
(Interpreting thesesometimes apparently counterintuitive findings isbeyond the scope of this paper, but represents a fas-cinating direction for future work.)
Fig.
7 showshow the nature of these relations depends on the trig-ger family considered.
The variation among familiesis in line with the previous empirical results on themultimodality of convergence in real conversations,as discussed in ?4.7 Summary and future workWe provide some insight into the causal mecha-nism behind convergence, a topic that has gener-ated substantial scrutiny and debate for over 40 years(Ireland et al, 2011; Branigan et al, 2010).
Ourwork, along with Elson and McKeown (2010), ad-vocates for the value of fictional sources in the studyof linguistic and social phenomena.
To stimulatesuch studies, we render our metadata-rich corpus ofmovie dialog public.In ?1, we described some practical applicationsof a better understanding of the chameleon effect inlanguage; it boils down to improving communica-tion both between humans and between humans andcomputers.
Also, our results on contention couldRom.com.NoquarrelSm.
quarrelQuarrel0.010.000.010.020.030.040.050.06ConvergencearticleFigure 6: Relation between contention and convergence.The third bar combines quarreling and some quarrelingto ameliorate data sparsity.
For comparison, Rom.
com.shows convergence calculated on all the conversations ofthe 24 romantic-comedy pairs considered in this experi-ment.be used to further automatic controversy detection(Mishne and Glance, 2006; G?mez et al, 2008).Moreover, if we succeeded in linking our resultson narrative importance to relative social status, wemight further the development of systems that caninfer social relationships in online social networkswhen conversational data is present but other, moreexplicit cues are absent (Wyatt et al, 2008; Bram-sen et al, 2011).
Such systems could be valuable tothe rapidly expanding field of analyzing social net-works.Acknowledgments Many thanks for their help aredue to Claire Cardie, Catalin Draghici, Susan Du-mais, Shimon Edelman, Michael Gamon, Jon Klein-berg, Magdalena Naroz?niak, Alex Niculescu-Mizil,Myle Ott, Bo Pang, Morgan Sonderegger, plus NLPseminar participants Eric Baumer, Bin Lu, ChenhaoTan, Lu Wang, Bishan Yang, Ainur Yessenalina, andMarseille, and the anonymous reviewers (who wentfar beyond the call of duty!).
Supported by NSF IIS-0910664, the Yahoo!
FREP program, and a Yahoo!Key Scientific Challenges award.84ReferencesShlomo Argamon, Sushant Dhawle, and Moshe Koppel.2005.
Lexical predictors of personality type.
Proceed-ings of the 2005 Joint Annual Meeting of the Interfaceand the Classification Society of North America.Frances Bilous and Robert Krauss.
1988.
Dominanceand accommodation in the conversational behavior ofsame- and mixed-gender dyads.
Language and Com-munication, 8:183?194.Lukas Bleichenbacher.
2008.
Multilingualism in themovies: Hollywood characters and their languagechoices.
francke verlag, Jan.J.
Kathryn Bock.
1986.
Syntactic persistence in lan-guage production.
Cognitive Psychology, 18(3):355?
387.Heather Bortfeld and Susan E. Brennan.
1997.
Use andacquisition of idiomatic expressions in referring by na-tive and non-native speakers.
Discourse Processes,23(2):119?147.Richard Y. Bourhis.
1991.
Organizational communi-cation and accommodation: Toward some conceptualand empirical links.
In Howard Giles, Justine Coup-land, and Nikolas Coupland, editors, Contexts of Ac-commodation.
Cambridge University Press.James J. Bradac, Anthony Mulac, and Ann House.
1988.Lexical diversity and magnitude of convergent ver-sus divergent style shifting: Perceptual and evaluativeconsequences.
Language and Communication, 8:213?228, Nov.Philip Bramsen, Martha Escobar-Molana, Ami Patel, andRafael Alonso.
2011.
Extracting social power rela-tionships from natural language.
In Proceedings ofACL HLT.Holly P. Branigan, Martin J. Pickering, Jamie Pearson,and Janet F. McLean.
2010.
Linguistic alignment be-tween people and computers.
Journal of Pragmatics,42(9):2355?2368.Tanya L. Chartrand and John A. Bargh.
1999.
Thechameleon effect: The perception-behavior link andsocial interaction.
J.
Personality and Social Psychol-ogy, 76(6):893?910.Tanya L. Chartrand and Rick van Baaren.
2009.
Chap-ter 5: Human mimicry.
In Mark P. Zanna, editor, Ad-vances in Experimental Social Psychology, volume 41,pp.
219?274.
Academic Press.Kenneth W. Church.
2000.
Empirical estimates of adap-tation: the chance of two noriegas is closer to p/2 thanp2.
In Proceedings of COLING, pp.
180?186.Herbert H. Clark.
1996.
Using language.
CambridgeUniversity Press, second edition.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Michael Gamon, andSusan Dumais.
2011.
Mark my words!
Linguisticstyle accommodation in social media.
In Proceedingsof WWW.David Elson and Kathleen McKeown.
2010.
Automaticattribution of quoted speech in literary narrative.
InProceedings of AAAI.David Elson, Nicholas Dames, and Kathleen McKeown.2010.
Extracting social networks from literary fiction.In Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pp.
138?147.Kathleen Ferrara.
1991.
Accommodation in therapy.
InAccommodation theory: Communication, context, andconsequences.
Cambridge University Press.Howard Giles, Justine Coupland, and Nikolas Coup-land.
1991.
Accommodation theory: Communica-tion, context, and consequences.
In Accommodationtheory: Communication, context, and consequences.Cambridge University Press.Howard Giles, Michael Willemyns, Cynthia Gallois, andMichelle Anderson.
2007.
Accommodating a newfrontier: The context of law enforcement.
In KlausFiedler, editor, Social Communication, Frontiers ofSocial Psychology, chapter 5, pp.
129?162.Howard Giles.
2008.
Communication accommodationtheory.
In Engaging theories in interpersonal commu-nication: Multiple perspectives.
Sage Publications.Vicen?
G?mez, Andreas Kaltenbrunner, and VicenteL?pez.
2008.
Statistical analysis of the social networkand discussion threads in Slashdot.
In Proceedings ofWWW, pp.
645?654.Amy L. Gonzales, Jeffrey T. Hancock, and James W. Pen-nebaker.
2010.
Language style matching as a predic-tor of social dynamics in small groups.
Communica-tion Research, 37(1):3?19, Feb.Stanford W. Gregory and Stephen Webster.
1996.
Anonverbal signal in voices of interview partners effec-tively predicts communication accommodation and so-cial status perceptions.
J.
Personality and Social Psy-chology, 70(6):1231?1240.Heidi Hamilton.
1991.
Accommodation and mentaldisability.
In Accommodation theory: Communica-tion, context, and consequences.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.Jeffrey T. Hancock, Lauren E. Curry, Saurabh Goorha,and Michael Woodworth.
2008.
On lying and be-ing lied to: A linguistic analysis of deception incomputer-mediated communication.
Discourse Pro-cesses, 45(1):1?23.Susan C. Herring and John C. Paolillo.
2006.
Genderand genre variation in weblogs.
Journal of Sociolin-guistics, Jan.Walter Hill.
1972.
The Getaway.
Directed by Sam Peck-inpah.85Molly E. Ireland and James W. Pennebaker.
2010.
Lan-guage style matching in writing: Synchrony in essays,correspondence, and poetry.
J.
Personality and SocialPsychology, 99(3):549?571.Molly E. Ireland, Richard B. Slatcher, Paul W. Eastwick,Lauren E. Scissors, Eli J. Finkel, and James W. Pen-nebaker.
2011.
Language style matching predicts re-lationship initiation and stability.
Psychological Sci-ence, 22:39?44.Patrick Juola.
2008.
Authorship Attribution.
Now Pub-lishers.Dan Jurafsky, Rajesh Ranganath, and Dan McFarland.2009.
Extracting social meaning: Identifying inter-actional style in spoken conversation.
In Proceedingsof the NAACL, pp.
638?646.Philipp Koehn.
2004.
Statistical significance testsfor machine translation evaluation.
Proceedings ofEMNLP, pp.
388?395.Moshe Koppel, Shlomo Argamon, and Anat Shimoni.2002.
Automatically categorizing written texts by au-thor gender.
Literary and Linguistic Computing.Sarah Kozloff.
2000.
Overhearing Film Dialogue.
Uni-versity of California Press.Jessica L. Lakin, Valerie E. Jefferis, Clara MichelleCheng, and Tanya L. Chartrand.
2003.
The chameleoneffect as social glue: Evidence for the evolutionary sig-nificance of nonconscious mimicry.
Journal of Non-verbal Behavior, 27:145?162.Willem J.M.
Levelt and Stephanie Kelter.
1982.
Surfaceform and memory in question answering.
CognitivePsychology, 14(1):78?106.Fran?ois Mairesse, Marilyn A. Walker, Matthias R. Mehl,and Roger K. Moore.
2007.
Using linguistic cues forthe automatic recognition of personality in conversa-tion and text.
JAIR, pp.
457?500.Petr Mare?.
2000.
Fikce, konvence a realita: K v?ce-jazyc?nosti v ume?leck?ch textech [fiction, convention,and reality: On multilingualism in literary texts].Slovo a slovesnost, 61(1):47?53.Robert McKee.
1999.
Story: Substance, Structure, Style,and the Principles of Screenwriting.
Methuen.Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava.
2009.
The liedetector: Explorations in the automatic recognitionof deceptive language.
In Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pp.
309?312.Gilad Mishne and Natalie Glance.
2006.
Leave a reply:An analysis of weblog comments.
Third annual work-shop on the Weblogging ecosystem.Frederick Mosteller and David L. Wallace.
1984.
Ap-plied Bayesian and Classical Inference: The Case ofthe Federalist Papers.
Springer-Verlag.Arjun Mukherjee and Bing Liu.
2010.
Improving genderclassification of blog authors.
EMNLP.Randall Munroe.
2010. http://xkcd.com/813/.Laura L. Namy, Lynne C. Nygaard, and Denise Sauerteig.2002.
Gender differences in vocal accommodation.
J.Language and Social Psychology, 21(4):422?432.Clifford Nass and Kwan Min Lee.
2000.
Does computer-generated speech manifest personality?
An experi-mental test of similarity-attraction.
In Proceedings ofCHI, pp.
329?336.Michael Natale.
1975.
Convergence of mean vocal in-tensity in dyadic communication as a function of so-cial desirability.
J.
Personality and Social Psychol-ogy, 32(5):790?804.Kate G. Niederhoffer and James W. Pennebaker.
2002.Linguistic style matching in social interaction.
J. Lan-guage and Social Psychology.Jon Oberlander and Alastair J. Gill.
2006.
Languagewith character: A stratified corpus comparison of in-dividual differences in e-mail communication.
Dis-course Processes, 42(3):239?270.James W. Pennebaker, Roger J. Booth, and Martha E.Francis.
2007.
Linguistic inquiry and wordcount (LIWC): A computerized text analysis program.http://www.liwc.net/.Cyma Van Petten and Marta Kutas.
1991.
Influences ofsemantic and syntactic context on open- and closed-class words.
Memory and Cognition, 19(1):95?112.Martin Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Toward amechanistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral andBrain Sciences, 27(02):169?190.Rajesh Ranganath, Dan Jurafsky, and Dan McFarland.2009.
It?s not you, it?s me: Detecting flirting andits misperception in speed-dates.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP, pp.
334?342.Paul Rayson, Andrew Wilson, and Geoffrey Leech.2001.
Grammatical word class variation within theBritish National Corpus Sampler.
Language and Com-puters, 36:295?306(12).David Reitter, Johanna D. Moore, and Frank Keller.2006.
Priming of syntactic rules in task-oriented di-alogue and spontaneous conversation.
In Proceedingsof the Conference of the Cognitive Science Society.David Reitter, Frank Keller, and Johanna D. Moore.2011.
A Computational Cognitive Model of Syntac-tic Priming.
Cognitive Science.Sidney J. Segalowitz and Korri Lane.
2004.
Perceptualfluency and lexical access for function versus contentwords.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 27(02):307?308.Morgan Sonderegger.
2010.
Applications of graph the-ory to an English rhyming corpus.
Computer Speech& Language, In Press, Corrected Proof.Svetlana Stenchikova and Amanda Stent.
2007.
Mea-suring adaptation between dialogs.
In Proc.
of the 8thSIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue.86Richard L. Street and Howard Giles.
1982.
Speech ac-commodation theory.
In Social cognition and commu-nication.
Sage Publications.Devi Stuart-Fox and Adnan Moussalli.
2008.
Selectionfor social signalling drives the evolution of chameleoncolour change.
PLoS Biol, 6(1):e25, 01.Paul J. Taylor and Sally Thomas.
2008.
Linguistic stylematching and negotiation outcome.
Negotiation andConflict Management Research, 1(3):263?281.Jitendra N. Thakerar, Howard Giles, and Jenny Cheshire.1982.
Psychological and linguistic parameters ofspeech accommodation theory.
In C. Fraser and K.R.Scherer, editors, Advances in the Social Psychology ofLanguage.
Cambridge.Rick B. van Baaren, Rob W. Holland, Bregje Steenaert,and Ad van Knippenberg.
2003.
Mimicry for money:Behavioral consequences of imitation.
Journal of Ex-perimental Social Psychology, 39(4):393?398.Arthur Ward and Diane Litman.
2007.
Dialog conver-gence and learning.
In Artificial Intelligence in Edu-cation (AIED), pp.
262?269.Danny Wyatt, Jeff Bilmes, Tanzeem Choudhury, andJames A. Kitts.
2008.
Towards the automated so-cial analysis of situated speech data.
In Proceedingsof Ubicomp, pp.
168?171.Patrick Ye and Timothy Baldwin.
2006.
Verb sensedisambiguation using selectional preferences extractedwith a state-of-the-art semantic role labeler.
In Pro-ceedings of the Australasian Language TechnologyWorkshop 2006, pp.
139?148.87
