An Ontology Based Architecture for TranslationLeonardo Lesmo, Alessandro Mazzei and Daniele P. RadicioniDipartimento di Informatica, Universita` degli Studi di Torino{lesmo,mazzei,radicion}@di.unito.itAbstractIn this paper we present some features of an architecture for the translation (Italian ?
Italian SignLanguage) that performs syntactic analysis, semantic interpretation and generation.
Such architec-ture relies on an ontology that has been used to encode the domain of weather forecasts as well asinformation on language as part of the world knowledge.
We present some general issues of theontological semantic interpretation and discuss the analysis of ordinal numbers.1 IntroductionIn this paper we describe some features of a system designed to translate from Italian into Italian SignLanguage (henceforth LIS).
The system is being developed within the ATLAS project.1 This architec-ture applies a hard computational linguistic approach: knowledge-based restricted interlingua (Hutchinsand Somer, 1992).
We perform a deep linguistic processing in each phase of the translation, i.e (1)syntactic analysis of the Italian input sentence, (2) semantic interpretation and (3) LIS generation.2 Themain motivation to adopt this ambitious architecture is that Italian and LIS are very different languages.Moreover, LIS is a poorly studied language, so no large corpus is available and statistical techniques arehardly conceivable.
We reduce our ambitions by restricting ourselves to the weather forecasts applicationdomain.In this paper we describe some major issues of the semantic interpretation and illustrate a case studyon ordinal numbers.
Our semantic interpretation is based on a syntactic analysis that is a dependency tree(Hudson, 1984; Lesmo, 2007).
Each word in the sentence is associated with a node of the syntactic tree.Nodes are linked via labeled arcs that specify the syntactic role of the dependents with respect to theirhead (the parent node).
A key point in semantic interpretation is that the syntax-semantics interface usedin the analysis is based on an ontology.
The knowledge in the ontology concerns an application domain,i.e.
weather forecasts, as well as more general information about the world: the latter information is usedto compute the sentence meaning.
Indeed, the sentence meaning consists of a complex fragment of theontology: predicate-argument structures and semantic roles are contained in this fragment and could beextracted by translating this fragment into usual First Order Logic predicates.3The idea to use the ontological paradigm to represent world knowledge as well as sentence meaningis similar to the work by Nirenburg and Raskin (2004) and Buitelaar et al (2009), but in contrast to theseapproaches (1) we use a syntactic parser to account for syntactic analysis; and (2) we use a recursivesemantic interpretation function similar to Cimiano (2009).2 The OntologyThe ontological knowledge base is a formal (partial) description of the domain of application.
It is for-mal, since its primitives are formally defined, and it is partial, since it does not include all axioms thatprovide details about the relationships between the involved concepts.
The top level of the domain ontol-ogy is illustrated in Fig.
1.4 The classes most relevant to weather forecasts are ?
?meteo-status-situation ,1http://www.atlas.polito.it/2LIS, as all the signed languages do not have a natural writing form.
In order to apply linguistic tools designed for writtenlanguages, in our project we developed ?AEW-LIS?, an artificial written form for LIS.3However, similar to other approach (among others Bunt et al (2007); White (2006)), our ontological meaning representa-tion is totally unscoped.4Some conventions have been adopted for ontology names: concepts (classes) have a ?
?prefix; instances have a ?prefix; andrelations and relation instances have a & prefix.345!99$-.0.:99.0,$"0-.$;<"1!=0#+;$!>!99?$5*;0@.0%-!99#$%#;"@";."5$1$*.0%-"*;0.$;0+,!99,$.$%"5.".+5"50.+".0%-!99?":!
99$<$-0-#99@%50.0<$"?":!99@%50.0<$"$<$-0-#99@%50.0<$"$<"1"$-.0.:!99$<"1+"A1$"!$-.0.:!990.";$#0%-990."*";?0-"1";$#0%-!990."B$5.$;-";$#0%-!990."$"5.$;-";$#0%-990."5%+.C$;-";$#0%-!990."-%;.C$;-";$#0%-!990."*$-.;"1";$#0%-990.""?;0".0*";$#0%-990."051"-?";$#0%-990.""?;0".0*";$#0%-995$"990.";$#0%-"#;%+@99#$%#;"@C0*"";$"990."#$%#;"";$"!!!!=0#+;$!D!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!Figure 1: The top ontology used for the weather forecast domain.
Dashed triangles represent collapsed regions ofthe hierarchy.?
?geographic-area , ?
?description , ?
?geographic-part-selection-criterium .?
?meteo-status-situation It is the most relevant class in the present setting, since it refers to the possi-ble weather situations, thus providing a starting point ?in principle?
to every weather forecast.
It mayconcern the sea status, a generic weather status (either stable or not) or possible atmospheric events suchas snow, rain or clouds.?
?geographic-area and ?
?time-interval Any weather situation holds in a specific place; in particular,the relevant places are geographic areas.
A ?
?geographic-area can be an Italian region, a group of re-gions, a sea, or may be identified by specifying a cardinal direction (North, South, .
.
.
).
Yet, any weathersituation holds in a specific temporal interval.
Such time interval could last one or more days or a part ofa day.
Expression as ?in the evening?
are interpreted anaphorically, i.e.
on the basis of current context: ifthe context is referring to ?today?, then it is interpreted as ?today evening?, for ?tomorrow?
as ?tomorrowevening?, etc..?
?description The actual situation and its description are kept separated.
For instance, if today is Octo-ber 28, then ?today?
is a ?
?deictic-description of a particular instance (or occurrence) of a ?
?day .
?April28, 2010?
is another description (absolute) of the same instance.
Particular relevance have the deictic de-scriptions since most temporal descriptions (today, tomorrow, but also the weekday names, as Monday,Tuesday, .
.
. )
are deictic in nature.?
?geogr-part-selection-criterium In descriptions, a particular instance (or group of instances) can beidentified by a general class term (e.g.
area) and a descriptor (e.g.
northern).
This concept refers to theparts of the reality that can act as descriptors.
For instance, the cardinal direction can be such a criteriumfor geographic parts, while a date is not.The last relevant portion of the ontology concerns relations.
Although the ontology has no axioms,class concepts are connected through relevant relations.
In turn, relations constitute the basic steps toform paths (more later on).
All relations in the ontology are binary, so that the representation of relationsof arity greater than 2 requires that they be reified.3 Semantic InterpretationOne chief assumption in our work is that words meaning can be expressed in terms of ontology nodes,and the meaning of the sentence is a complex path on the ontology that we call ontological restriction.We define the meaning interpretation function MO, that computes the the ontological restriction of asentence starting from the its dependency analysis and on the basis of an ontology O.Given a sentence S and the corresponding syntactic analysis expressed as a dependency tree depTree(S),the meaning of S is computed by applying the meaning interpretation function to the root of the tree, thatis MO(root(depTree(S))).
In procedural terms, the meaning for a sentence is computed in two steps:(i) we annotate each word of the input sentence with the corresponding lexical meaning; (ii) we build the346giorno [?
?day]ultimo [?
?last] mese [?
?month]adjc+ordin-rmod rmodFigure 2: The dependency analysis of ultimo giorno del mese (last day of the month) enriched with lexical meaning.actual ontological representation in a quasi-compositional way, by merging paths found in the ontologyin a single representation which is a subgraph of the ontology itself.
These two steps can be formalizedas a meaning interpretation function M defined as:MO(n) :={LMO(n) if n is a leaf?
?ki=1(CPO(LMO(n),MO(di))) otherwisewhere n is the node of a dependency tree and d1, d2, .
.
.
, dk are its dependents.
LMO(w) is a functionthat extracts the lexical meaning of a word w accessing the dictionary: that is, a class or an individualon the ontology O. CPO(y, z) is a function that returns the shortest path on O that connects y to z.The search for connections relies on the rationale that the shortest path between any two ontology nodesrepresents the stronger semantic connection between them.
In most cases the distance between twoconcepts is the number of the nodes among them, but in some cases a number of constraints needs tobe satisfied too (see the example on ordinal construction).
Finally, the operator ??
is used to denote aparticular merge operator, similar to Cimiano (2009).
As a general strategy, shortest paths are composedwith the union operation, but each CPO(y, z) conveys a peculiar set of ontological constraints: the mergeoperator takes all such constraints to build the overall complex ontological representation.
In particular, anumber of semantic clashes can arise from the union operation: we use a number of heuristics to resolvethese clashes.
For sake of simplicity (and space) in this definition we do not describe the heuristicsused in the ambiguity resolution.
However, three distinct types of ambiguity exist: (1) lexical ambiguity,i.e.
a word can have more than one lexical meaning; (2) shortest path ambiguity, i.e.
two nodes canbe connected by two equal-length paths; (3) merge ambiguity, i.e.
two fragments of ontology can bemerged in different manners.
Whilst lexical ambiguity has not a great impact due to the limited domain(and could be addressed by standard word sense disambiguation techniques), handling shortest path andmerge ambiguities needs heuristics expressed as constraints that rely on general world knowledge.A particular case of ontological constraints in merge ambiguity is present in the interpretation ofordinal numbers, so further details on the merge operator can be found in Section 4.4 A case study: the ordinal numbersIn order to translate from Italian into LIS, we need to cope with a number of semantic phenomenaappearing in the particular domain chosen as pilot study, i.e.
weather forecast.
One of the most frequentconstructions are ordinal numbers.
Consider the simple phrase l?ultimo giorno del mese (the last dayof the month).
The (simplified) dependency structure corresponding to this phrase is depicted in Fig.
2:the head word giorno (day) has two modifying dependents, ultimo (last) and mese (month).
Since theinterpretation relies heavily on the access to the ontology, we first describe the portion of the ontologyused for the interpretation and then we illustrate the application of the function M to the given example.The relevant fragment of the ontology is organized as shown in Fig.
3, that has been split in two parts.The upper part ?labeled TEMPORAL PARTS?
describes the reified ?
?part-of relation and its temporallyspecialized subclasses.
The lower part ?labeled ORDINALS?
is constituted by some classes that accountjust for ordinal numbers.
In the TEMPORAL PARTS region of the Fig.
we find the ?
?temporal-part-of(reified) sub-relation, which, in turn, subsumes ?
?day-month-part-of .
This specifies that days are parts ofmonths, so that day of the month can be interpreted as the day which is part of the month.
The ?
?part-ofrelation has two roles: we use the term role to refer to the binary relation associated with a participantin a reified relation.
These roles are ?value-restricted?
as &day-in-daymonth and &month-in-daymonthrespectively, for what concerns ?
?day-month-part-of .
The most relevant class in the ORDINALS partof Fig.
3 is the class ?
?ordinal-description .
It is the domain of three roles, 1) &ord-described-item , 2)&references-sequence and 3) &ordinal-desc-selector .
The range of the first relation &ord-described-itemis the item whose position in the sequence is specified by the ordinal, that is a ?
?sequenceable-entity.The range of the second relation &reference-sequence is the sequence inside which the position makes347?
?physical-entity ?
?part-of&part-smaller &part-bigger?
?time-interval ?
?temporal-part-of&temporal-part-smaller &temporal-part-bigger??day-month-part-of?
?day ??month&day-in-daymonth&month-in-daymonth??ordinal-description??sequenceable-entity?
?entity-sequence&ord-described-item &reference-sequence&ordinal-desc-selector ??ordinal-selector??last?
?day-sequenceTEMPORAL PARTSORDINALSFigure 3: The fragment of the ontology accounting for ordinals.sense, that is an ?
?entity-sequence .
The range of the third relation &ordinal-desc-selector is item thatspecifies the position, that is a ?
?ordinal-selector .
In the example, ?last is an instance of ?
?ordinal-selector .
Of course, any (true) ordinal (first, second, thirtythird) can fill that role.
The two portions ofthe ontology are connected by two arcs.
The first arc specifies that a ?
?time-interval is a subclass of?
?sequenceable-entity (so that one can say the fourth minute, the first year, and so on).
The second arcspecifies that ?
?month is subclass of ?
?day-sequence , which in turn is subclass of ?
?entity-sequence .As a consequence it can play the role (can be the range) of the &reference-sequence .We now describe how the meaning interpretation function is applied on the considered example.
Itconsists of three steps: 1. we compute the connection path between the concepts ?
?day and ?last ; 2. wecompute the connection path between ?
?day and ?
?month ; 3. we merge the connection paths previouslycomputed.
In details:1.
By computing CP(?
?day, ?last) we obtain the connection path in Fig 4-a.
Note that this ontologicalrestriction contains the concept ?
?ordinal-selector .2.
By computing CP(?
?day, ?
?month) we obtain the connection path in Fig 4-b.
In this case the shortestpath is not actually the ?shortest?
one, i.e.
the presence of the preposition del (of ) constraints the valuereturned by CP .
Moreover, this ontological restriction contains the concept ?
?day-month-part-of , whichis a sub-concept of ?
?part-of .3.
The last step consists of the application of the meaning composition function to CP(?
?day, ?last) andCP(?
?day, ??month).
The ?
?ordinal-description concept is detected in the first ontological restriction;moreover ?
?day is recognized as (subclass of) a possible filler for ?
?ordinal-description .
At this pointwe need establishing how ?
?day fits as the smaller part of a &part-of relation.
We scan the remain-ing ontological restriction(s) looking for a bigger part involved in a &part-of relation or in any of itssub-relations.
The resulting representation (Fig.
4-c) is built by assuming that the larger entity (here?
?month , since &month-in-daymonth restricts &part-bigger) is the reference sequence for the ordering.So, the direct ?
?day-month-part-of of the second ontological restriction is replaced by a path passingthrough ?
?ordinal-description .
In such final ontological restriction ?
?day is the &ord-described-itemand ?
?month is the &reference-sequence .5 Conclusions and future workIn this paper we illustrated the analysis component of a knowledge-based restricted interlingua architec-ture for the translation from Italian into LIS.
The structure produced by the semantic interpretation of the348?
?physical-entity ?
?part-of&part-smaller &part-bigger?
?time-interval ?
?temporal-part-of&temporal-part-smaller &temporal-part-bigger??day-month-part-of?
?day ??month&day-in-daymonth&month-in-daymonth??ordinal-description??sequenceable-entity?
?entity-sequence&ord-described-item &reference-sequence&ordinal-desc-selector ??ordinal-selector??last?
?day-sequenceTEMPORAL PARTSORDINALS1234 56789?
?physical-entity ?
?part-of&part-smaller &part-bigger?
?time-interval ?
?temporal-part-of&temporal-part-smaller &temporal-part-bigger??day-month-part-of?
?day ??month&day-in-daymonth&month-in-daymonth??ordinal-description??sequenceable-entity?
?entity-sequence&ord-described-item &reference-sequence&ordinal-desc-selector ??ordinal-selector??last?
?day-sequenceTEMPORAL PARTSORDINALS1 2 3b)c)?
?physical-entity ?
?part-of&part-smaller &part-bigger?
?time-interval ?
?temporal-part-of&temporal-part-smaller &temporal-part-bigger??day-month-part-of?
?day ??month&day-in-daymonth&month-in-daymonth??ordinal-description??sequenceable-entity?
?entity-sequence&ord-described-item &reference-sequence&ordinal-desc-selector ??ordinal-selector??last?
?day-sequenceTEMPORAL PARTSORDINALS2134 56a)Figure 4: The ontology fragment computed by the semantic interpretation function.source sentence is a complex ontology fragment obtained by the application of the function MO.
As casestudy we showed how this function uses the ontology O to interpret the ordinal numbers.
The decisionto use an ontology fragment as semantic representation is motivated by theoretical assumptions and hassome practical appeals.
From a theoretical point of view, we represent language semantics as part of theworld knowledge in ontologies (Buitelaar et al, 2009; Galanis and Androutsopoulos, 2007; Nirenburgand Raskin, 2004).
From an applicative point of view the ontology restriction produced by the semanticinterpretation is used (in logical form) as input of the OpenCCG tool, in the generation component of thetranslation architecture (White, 2006).
As a consequence, similar to Nirenburg and Raskin (2004), weuse ontologies in all components of our architecture (cf.
Galanis and Androutsopoulos (2007); Sun andMellish (2007)).We have currently implemented the main features of the MO and the ontology is being developed.Our working hypothesis is that the weather forecast sub-language is characterized by plain and shortsentences and this guarantees scalability of our approach.
In the next future we plan to broaden thecoverage of linguistic phenomena, so to unify ordinals, superlative and comparative adjective analyses.5ReferencesBuitelaar, P., P. Cimiano, P. Haase, and M. Sintek (2009).
Towards linguistically grounded ontologies.
In Proceed-ings of the 6th Annual European Semantic Web Conference (ESWC).Bunt, H., R. M. M. Dzikovska, M. Swift, and J. Allen (2007).
Customizing Meaning: Building Domain-SpecificSemantic Representations From A Generic Lexicon, Volume 83.
Springer.Cimiano, P. (2009).
Flexible semantic composition with DUDES.
In Proceedings of the 8th International Confer-ence on Computational Semantics (IWCS?09).Galanis, D. and I. Androutsopoulos (2007).
Generating multilingual descriptions from linguistically annotatedOWL ontologies: the naturalOWL system.
In In Proceedings of the 11th European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, Schloss Dagstuhl.Hudson, R. (1984).
Word Grammar.
Oxford and New York: Basil Blackwell.Hutchins, W. and H. L. Somer (1992).
An Introduction to Machine Translation.
London: Academic Press.Lesmo, L. (2007, June).
The Rule-Based Parser of the NLP Group of the University of Torino.
IntelligenzaArtificiale 2(4), 46?47.Nirenburg, S. and V. Raskin (2004).
Ontological Semantics.
The MIT Press.Sun, X. and C. Mellish (2007).
An experiment on ?free generation?
from single RDF triples.
In Proceedings ofENLG ?07, pp.
105?108.
Association for Computational Linguistics.White, M. (2006).
Efficient realization of coordinate structures in combinatory categorial grammar.
Research onLanguage and Computation 2006(4(1)), 39?75.5Acknowledgement: This work is partly supported from the ATLAS project, that is co-funded by Regione Piemonte withinthe ?Converging Technologies - CIPE 2007?
framework (Research Sector: Cognitive Science and ICT).349
