Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 87?95,24 June, 2011, Portland, Oregon, USA c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsImproving a Method for Quantifying Readers?
Impressions of News Articleswith a Regression EquationTadahiko KumamotoChiba Institute of Technology2-17-1, Tsudanuma, Narashino,Chiba 275-0016, Japankumamoto@net.it-chiba.ac.jpYukiko KawaiKyoto Sangyo UniversityMotoyama, Kamigamo,Kita-Ku, Kyoto 603-8555,JapanKatsumi TanakaKyoto UniversityYoshida-Honmachi,Sakyo-Ku, Kyoto 606-8501,JapanAbstractIn this paper, we focus on the impressions thatpeople gain from reading articles in Japanesenewspapers, and we propose a method forextracting and quantifying these impressionsin real numbers.
The target impressions arelimited to those represented by three bipo-lar scales, ?Happy ?
Sad,?
?Glad ?
Angry,?and ?Peaceful ?
Strained,?
and the strength ofeach impression is computed as a real num-ber between 1 and 7.
First, we implement amethod for computing impression values ofarticles using an impression lexicon.
Thislexicon represents a correlation between thewords appearing in articles and the influenceof these words on the readers?
impressions,and is created from a newspaper database us-ing a word co-occurrence based method.
Weconsidered that some gaps would occur be-tween values computed by such an unsuper-vised method and those judged by the readers,and we conducted experiments with 900 sub-jects to identify what gaps actually occurred.Consequently, we propose a new approachthat uses regression equations to correct im-pression values computed by the method.
Ourinvestigation shows that accuracy is improvedby a range of 23.2% to 42.7% by using regres-sion equations.1 IntroductionIn recent years, many researchers have been at-tempting to model the role of emotion in interac-tions between people or between people and com-puters, and to establish how to make computers rec-ognize and express emotions (Picard, 1997; Mas-saro, 1998; Bartneck, 2001).
However, there havenot been many studies that have extracted the im-pressions that people form after seeing or listeningto text and multimedia content.
For multimedia con-tent such as music and images, several impression-based retrieval methods have been proposed for lo-cating paintings and pieces of music that convey im-pressions similar to those registered by users (Satoet al, 2000; Kumamoto, 2005; Takayama et al,2005).
By comparison, there are only a few studiesthat have extracted the readers?
impressions gainedfrom text such as news articles, novels, and poems(Kiyoki et al, 1994; Kumamoto and Tanaka, 2005;Lin et al, 2008).In this paper, we focus on the impressions thatpeople gain from reading articles in Japanese news-papers, and we propose a method for extracting andquantifying these impressions in real numbers.
Thetarget impressions are limited to those representedby three bipolar scales, ?Happy ?
Sad,?
?Glad ?
An-gry,?
and ?Peaceful ?
Strained,?
and the strengthof each impression is computed as a real numberbetween 1 and 7 denoting a position on the corre-sponding scale.
Then, interpretation of the positionis grounded based on a seven-point scale.
For exam-ple, on the scale ?Happy ?
Sad,?
the score 1 equals?Happy,?
the middle score 4 denotes ?Neither happynor sad,?
and the score 7 equals ?Sad.?
If the impres-sion value of an article is 2.5, then the average readerwill experience an intermediate impression between?Comparatively happy (2)?
and ?A little happy (3)?from reading the article.First, we assumed that words causing a certain im-pression from articles co-occur often with impres-87sion words that express that impression, and do notco-occur very often with impression words that ex-press the opposite impression.
Proceeding with thisassumption, we implemented a method for analyz-ing co-occurrence relationships between words inevery article extracted from a newspaper database.We then created an impression lexicon.
This lexiconrepresents a correlation between the words appear-ing in articles and the influence of these words onthe readers?
impressions.
We then implemented amethod that computes impression values of articlesusing the lexicon.
We considered that some gapsoccur between values computed by such an unsu-pervised method and those judged by the readers,and we conducted experiments with 900 subjects toidentify what gaps actually occurred.
In these exper-iments, each subject read ten news articles and esti-mated her/his impressions of each article using thethree bipolar scales.
Thereafter, for each scale, wedrew a scatter diagram to identify the potential cor-respondence relationships between the values com-puted by the method and those judged by the sub-jects.
As a result, we found that the correspondencerelationships could be approximately represented bycubic and quintic regression equations.
We, there-fore, propose a new approach that uses regressionequations to correct impression values computed bythe method.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.
InSection 2, we present related work.
In Section 3,we present the design of the three bipolar scales, amethod for the automated construction of an impres-sion lexicon, and a method for computing impres-sion values of articles using this lexicon.
In Section4, we analyze the correspondence relationships be-tween values computed using the lexicon and thosejudged by the readers, and based on the results ofthis analysis, we propose a method of using regres-sion equations to correct impression values com-puted using the lexicon.
In Section 5, we investi-gate how far accuracy can be improved by using theregression equations.
Finally, in Section 6, we con-clude the paper.2 Related WorkThere are many studies that identify informationgivers?
emotions from some sort of information thatthey have transmitted (Cowie et al, 2001; Forbes-Riley and Litman, 2004; Kleinsmith and Bianchi-Berthouze, 2007).
On the other hand, there are onlya few studies that have extracted the impressionswhich information receivers gain from the text thatthey have received (Kiyoki et al, 1994; Kumamotoand Tanaka, 2005; Lin et al, 2008).Kiyoki et al (1994) have proposed a mathemat-ical model of meanings, and this model allows asemantic relation to be established between wordsaccording to a given context.
Their method uses amathematical model and creates a semantic spacefor selecting the impression words that appropriatelyexpress impressions of text according to a given con-text.
In other words, this method does not quantifyimpressions of text, but just selects one or more im-pression words expressing the impressions.
Thus,their aim differs from ours.Lin et al (2008) have proposed a method for clas-sifying news articles into emotion categories fromthe reader?s perspective.
They have adopted a ma-chine learning approach to build a classifier for themethod.
That is, they obtained Chinese news ar-ticles from a specific news site on the web whichallows a user to cast a vote for one of eight emo-tions, ?happy,?
?sad,?
?angry,?
?surprising,?
?bor-ing,?
?heartwarming,?
?awesome,?
and ?useful.
?They collected 37,416 news articles along with theirvoting statistics, and developed a support vectormachine-based classifier using 25,975 of them astraining data.
However, their method just classifiesarticles into emotion classes and does not quantifythe reader?s emotions.
Thus, their aim also differsfrom ours.Kumamoto and Tanaka (2005) have proposed aword co-occurrence-based method for quantifyingreaders?
impressions of news articles in real num-bers.
However, this method is similar to Turney?smethod (Turney, 2002), and it is considered to be aJapanese version of this method in the broad sense.Turney?s method is one for classifying various gen-res of written reviews into ?recommended?
or ?notrecommended.?
His method extracts phrases withspecific patterns from text, and calculates pointwisemutual information PMI(i, ?excellent?)
between aphrase i and the reference word ?excellent,?
andPMI(i, ?poor?)
between the same phrase i and thereference word ?poor.?
Then, PMI(i, w) is calcu-88lated based on a co-occurrence relationship betweeni and w. Next, the semantic orientation (SO) of thephrase i is obtained by calculating the difference be-tween PMI(i, ?excellent?)
and PMI(i, ?poor?).
Fi-nally, SO of the text is determined by averagingthe SO of all the phrases.
In contrast, Kumamotoet al?s method quantifies impressions in real num-bers, and it can deal with impressions representedby two bipolar scales, ?Sad ?
Glad?
and ?Angry ?Pleased.?
For that purpose, reference words are se-lected for each scale.
Since all the reference wordsare Japanese, Kumamoto et al?s method extractsreaders?
impressions from Japanese articles only.Also, conditional probabilities are used instead ofPMI.
Since these methods fit our assumption thatwords causing a certain impression of articles co-occur often with the impression words that expressthat impression, and do not co-occur very often withimpression words that express the opposite impres-sion, we decided to implement a new method basedon Kumamoto et al?s method.3 Computing impression values of newsarticles using an impression lexicon3.1 Determining target impressionsKumamoto (2010) has designed six bipolar scalessuitable for representing impressions of news arti-cles: ?Happy ?
Sad,?
?Glad ?
Angry,?
?Interesting ?Uninteresting,?
?Optimistic ?
Pessimistic,?
?Peace-ful ?
Strained,?
and ?Surprising ?
Common.?
First,he conducted nine experiments, in each of which100 subjects read ten news articles and estimatedtheir impressions on a scale from 1 to 5 for each of42 impression words.
These 42 impression wordswere manually selected from a Japanese thesaurus(Ohno and Hamanishi, 1986) as words that can ex-press impressions of news articles.
Next, factor anal-ysis was applied to the data obtained in the experi-ments, and consequently the 42 words were dividedinto four groups: negative words, positive words,two words that were ?uninteresting?
and ?common,?and two words that were ?surprising?
and ?unex-pected.?
In the meantime, after cluster analysis ofthe data, the 42 words were divided into ten groups.Based on the results of both analyses, the author cre-ated the six bipolar scales presented above.
How-ever, he showed that impressions on the ?Surpris-ing ?
Common?
scale differed greatly among indi-viduals in terms of their perspective.
In addition,he insisted that processing according to the back-ground knowledge, interest, and character of indi-viduals was required to deal with the impressionsrepresented by the two scales ?Interesting ?
Unin-teresting?
and ?Optimistic ?
Pessimistic.?
There-fore, we decided not to use these three scales atthe present stage, and adopted the remaining threescales, ?Happy ?
Sad,?
?Glad ?
Angry,?
and ?Peace-ful ?
Strained.
?3.2 Constructing an impression lexiconAn impression lexicon plays an important role incomputing impressions of news articles.
In this pa-per, we describe the implementation of a methodfor automatically constructing an impression lexiconbased on Kumamoto et al?s method as described ear-lier.First, while two contrasting reference words areused for each scale in their method, two contrastingsets, each consisting of multiple reference words, areused in this paper.Next, let the set of reference words which ex-presses an impression at the left of a scale be SL,and let the set of reference words which expressesan impression at the right of the scale be SR. Arti-cles including one or more reference words in SL orSR are all extracted from a newspaper database, andthe number of reference words belonging to eachset is counted in each article.
For this we used the2002 to 2006 editions of the Yomiuri NewspaperText Database as the newspaper database.
Then, letthe articles in each of which the number of refer-ence words belonging to SL is larger than the num-ber of reference words belonging to SR be AL, andlet the number of articles in AL be NL.
Let the arti-cles in each of which the number of reference wordsbelonging to SL is smaller than the number of ref-erence words belonging to SR be AR, and let thenumber of articles in AR be NR.
Next, all words areextracted from each of AL and AR except for par-ticles, adnominal words1, and demonstratives, andthe document frequency of each word is measured.Then, let the document frequency in AL of a word w1This part of speech exists only in Japanese, not in English.For example, ?that,?
?so called,?
and ?of no particular distinc-tion?
are dealt with as adnominal words in Japanese.89Table 1: Specifications of our impression lexicon.Scales # of entries WL WRHappy ?
Sad 387,428 4.90 3.80Glad ?
Angry 350,388 4.76 3.82Peaceful ?
Strained 324,590 3.91 4.67be NL(w), and let the document frequency in AR ofa word w be NR(w).
The revised conditional prob-abilities of a word w are defined as follows.PL(w) =NL(w)NL, PR(w) =NR(w)NRThese formula are slightly different from the condi-tional probabilities used in their method, and onlyarticles that satisfy the assumptions described aboveare used in order to calculate PL(w) and PR(w).Finally, the impression value v(w) of a word w iscalculated using these PL(w) and PR(w) as follows.v(w) = PL(w) ?WLPL(w) ?WL + PR(w) ?WRWL = log10 NL, WR = log10 NRThat is, a weighted interior division ratio v(w) ofPL(w) and PR(w) is calculated using these formu-las, and stored as an impression value of w in thescale ?SL ?
SR?
in an impression lexicon.
Note thatWL and WR denote weights, and the larger NL andNR are, the heavier WL and WR are.The numbers of entries in the impression lexiconconstructed as above are shown in Table 1 togetherwith the values of WL and WR obtained.
Further,the two contrasting sets of reference words2, whichwere used in creating the impression lexicon, areenumerated in Table 2 for each scale.
These wordswere determined after a few of trial and error andare based on two criteria, namely (i) it is a verb oradjective that expresses either of two contrasting im-pressions represented by a scale, and (ii) as far aspossible, it does not suggest other types of impres-sions.2These words were translated into English by the authors.Table 2: Reference words prepared for each scale.Scales Reference wordsHappy tanoshii (happy), tanoshimu (en-joy), tanosimida (look forward to),tanoshigeda (joyous)?
Sad kanashii (sad), kanashimu (suffersadness), kanashimida (feel sad),kanashigeda (look sad)Glad ureshii (glad), yorokobashii(blessed), yorokobu (feel delight)?
Angry ikaru/okoru (get angry), ikidooru(become irate), gekidosuru (get en-raged)Peaceful nodokada (peaceful), nagoyakada(friendly), sobokuda (simple), an-shinda (feel easy)?
Strained kinpakusuru (strained), bukimida(scared), fuanda (be anxious), os-oreru (fear)3.3 Computing impression values of articlesFor each scale, the impression value of an articleis calculated as follows.
First, the article is seg-mented into words using ?Juman?
(Kurohashi et al,1994)3, one of the most powerful Japanese morpho-logical analysis systems, and an impression valuefor each word is obtained by consulting the impres-sion lexicon constructed as described in 3.2.
Sev-enteen rules that we designed are then applied tothe Juman output.
For example, there is a rulethat a phrase of a negative form like ?sakujo-shi-nai (do not erase)?
should not be divided into a verb?shi (do),?
a suffix ?nai (not),?
and an action noun?sakujo (erasion)?
but should be treated as a singleverb ?sakujo-shi-nai (do-not-erase).?
There is also arule that an assertive phrase such as ?hoomuran-da(is a home run)?
should not be divided into a cop-ula ?da (is)?
and a noun ?hoomuran (a home run)?but should form a single copula ?hoomuran-da (is-a-home-run).?
Further, there is a rule that a phrasewith a prefix, such as ?sai-charenji (re-challenge)?should not be divided into a prefix ?sai (re)?
and an3Since there are no boundary markers between words inJapanese, word segmentation is needed to identify individualwords.90action noun ?charenji (challenge)?
but should form asingle action noun ?sai-charenji (re-challenge).?
Allthe rules are applied to the Juman output in creatingan impression lexicon and computing the impressionvalues of news articles.
Finally, an average of theimpression values obtained for all the words exceptfor particles, adnominal words, and demonstrativesis calculated and presented as an impression valueof the article.4 Correcting computed impression values4.1 Analyzing a correspondence relationshipbetween computed and manually ratedvaluesWe considered that some gaps would occur be-tween impression values computed by an unsuper-vised method such as the one we used and those ofthe readers.
We, therefore, conducted experimentsin which a total of 900 people participated as sub-jects, and identified what gaps actually occurred.First, we conducted experiments with 900 sub-jects, and obtained data that described correspon-dence relationships between news articles and im-pressions to be extracted from the articles.
That is,the 900 subjects were randomly divided into nineequal groups, each group consisting of 50 males and50 females, and 90 articles which were selected fromthe 2002 edition of the Mainichi Newspaper TextDatabase4 were randomly divided into nine equalparts.
Then, each subject was asked to read the tenarticles presented in a random order and rate eachof them using three seven-point bipolar scales pre-sented in a random order.
The scales we used were?Happy ?
Sad,?
?Glad ?
Angry,?
and ?Peaceful ?Strained,?
and the subjects were asked to assess, ona scale of 1 to 7, the intensity of each impression,represented by each scale, from reading a target ar-ticle.
For example, on the scale ?Happy ?
Sad,?
thescore 1 equaled ?Happy,?
the middle score 4 denoted?Neither happy nor sad,?
and the score 7 equaled?Sad.?
After the experiments, for each scale, we cal-culated an average of the 100 values rated for everyarticle.
We regarded this average as the impressionvalue to be extracted from the article.
Note that, inthese experiments, we presented only the first para-4This database is different from the Yomiuri newspaperdatabase we used in creating an impression lexicon.graphs of the original news articles to the subjects.This procedure was derived from the fact that peoplecan understand the outline of a news article by justreading the first paragraph of the article, as well asthe fact that impressions of an article may change inevery paragraph.
Development of a method for fol-lowing the change of impressions in an article willbe a future project.Next, impression values for the first paragraphsof the 90 articles were computed by the method weimplemented in 3.3, where the first paragraphs wereidentical to those presented to the subjects in the ex-periments.
Note that, according to the definition ofour equations, these impression values are close to1 when impressions on the left of a scale are feltstrongly, and are close to 0 when impressions on theright of a scale are felt strongly.
We therefore usedthe following formula and converted the computedvalue into a value between 1.0 and 7.0.Converted = (1?
Computed) ?
6 + 1Next, for each scale, we drew a scatter diagramto identify the potential correspondence relationshipbetween these converted values and the averages ob-tained in the experiments, as illustrated in Figure 1.We can see from any of the scatter diagrams that theimpression values manually rated by the subjects arepositively correlated with those automatically com-puted by the method we implemented.
In fact, theircoefficients of correlation are 0.76, 0.84, and 0.78from the case at the top of the figure, which are allhigh.
This not only means that, as an overall trend,the underlying assumption of this paper is satisfied,but also indicates that the correspondence relation-ships can be represented by regression equations.4.2 Correcting computed impression valueswith regression equationsNext, we applied regression analysis to the con-verted values and the averages, where the convertedvalues were used as the explanatory variable, and theaverages were used as the objective variable.
In thisregression analysis, various regression models (Kan,2000) such as linear function, logarithmic function,logistic curve, quadratic function, cubic function,quartic function, and quintic function were used on912.03.04.05.06.02.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0Converted ValuesManuallyrated(a) In the case of ?Happy ?
Sad?2.03.04.05.06.02.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0Converted ValuesManuallyrated(b) In the case of ?Glad ?
Angry?2.03.04.05.06.02.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0Converted ValuesManuallyrated(c) In the case of ?Peaceful ?
Strained?Figure 1: Scatter diagrams and regression equations.a trial basis.
As a result, the regression equation,which had the highest coefficient of determination,was determined as an optimal function denoting thecorrespondence relationship between the convertedvalues and the averages in each scale.
This meansthat, for each scale, the impression value of an ar-ticle was more accurately obtained by correcting avalue computed by the method we implemented us-ing the corresponding regression equation.The regression equations obtained here were??1.636x3+18.972x2?70.686x+88.515?
for the?Happy ?
Sad,?
?2.385x5?46.872x4+363.660x3?1391.589x2+2627.063x?1955.306?
for the ?Glad?
Angry,?
and ?
?1.714x3 + 21.942x2 ?
90.792x+124.822?
for the ?Peaceful ?Strained,?
and they areTable 3: Change of the Euclidean distance by using re-gression equations.Scales DBefore DAfter Rate1Happy ?
Sad 0.94 0.67 29.0%Glad ?
Angry 0.83 0.47 42.7%Peaceful 0.82 0.63 23.2%?
Strainedalready illustrated on the corresponding scatter dia-grams in Figure 1.
Their coefficients of determina-tion were 0.63, 0.81, 0.64, respectively, which werehigher than 0.5 in all scales.
This means that theresults of regression analysis were good.
In addi-tion, we can see from Figure 1 that each regressionequation fits the shape of the corresponding scatterdiagram.5 Performance EvaluationFirst, we estimated the accuracy of the proposedmethod for learned data.
For that, we used the dataobtained in the experiments described in 4.1, and in-vestigated how far gaps between the computed val-ues and the averages of the manually rated valueswere reduced by using the regression equations.
Theresults are shown in Table 3.
In this table, DBefore de-notes the Euclidean distance between the computedvalues without correction and the averages for the 90articles, and DAfter denotes the Euclidean distancebetween the values corrected with the correspond-ing regression equation and the averages for the 90articles.
Then Rate1 was calculated as an improve-ment rate by the following formula:Rate1 =DBefore ?DAfterDBefore?
100Table 3 shows fairly high improvement rates in allthe scales, and hence we find that accuracy is im-proved by using the regression equations.
In partic-ular, DAfter for the scale ?Glad ?
Angry?
is less than0.5 or a half of a step and is sufficiently small.Next, we calculated the accuracy of the method(Kumamoto and Tanaka, 2005) on which the pro-posed method is based, and compared it with that ofthe proposed method.
The results are shown in Ta-ble 4.
In this table, DBaseline denotes the Euclidean92Table 4: Comparison with a baseline method.Scales DBaseline DProposed Rate2Happy ?
Sad 0.99 0.67 32.3%Glad ?
Angry 0.82 0.47 42.7%Peaceful 1.00 0.63 37.0%?
Straineddistance between the values computed by the base-line method and the averages for the 90 articles, andDProposed is equivalent to DAfter in Table 3.
ThenRate2 is calculated as an improvement rate by thefollowing formula:Rate2 =DBaseline ?DProposedDBaseline?
100Table 4 also shows that fairly high improvementrates were obtained in all the scales.
Note that thebaseline method was implemented in the followingway.
First, a pair of reference words was preparedfor each scale.
Actually, the pair ?tanoshii (happy)?and ?kanashii (sad)?
was used for the scale ?Happy?
Sad?
; the pair ?ureshii (glad)?
and ?ikaru/okoru(get angry)?
for the scale ?Glad ?
Angry?
; and?nodokada (peaceful)?
and ?kinpakusuru (strained)?for the scale ?Peaceful ?
Strained.?
Next, an impres-sion lexicon for the baseline method was constructedfrom the news articles which were used to constructour impression lexicon.The results shown in Tables 3 and 4 prove that theproposed method has a high level of accuracy for thearticles used in obtaining the regression equations.As the next step, we estimated the accuracy of theproposed method for unlearned data.
For that, weperformed five-fold cross-validation using the dataobtained in 4.1.
First, the data were randomly di-vided into five equal parts, each part consisting ofdata for 18 articles.
Next, a learned data set was cre-ated arbitrarily from four of the five parts, or datafor 72 articles, and an unlearned data set was cre-ated from the remaining part, or data for 18 arti-cles.
Regression analysis was then applied to thelearned data set.
As a result, an optimal regres-sion equation that expressed a correspondence rela-tionship between the computed values and the av-erages of the manually rated values in the learnedTable 5: Estimation of overall accuracy based on five-foldcross-validation.Scales DMean DMax DMinHappy ?
Sad 0.69 0.78 0.57Glad ?
Angry 0.49 0.58 0.42Peaceful ?
Strained 0.64 0.81 0.50Table 6: Influence of size of target newspaper database toEuclidean distance.EditionsScales 2002-2006 2005-2006 2006Happy ?
Sad 0.67 0.69 0.73Glad ?
Angry 0.47 0.50 0.54Peaceful 0.63 0.65 0.69?
Straineddata set was obtained for each scale.
Next, we cal-culated the Euclidean distance between the averagesfor 18 articles in the unlearned data set and the val-ues which were computed from the 18 articles them-selves and corrected with the corresponding optimalregression equation.
The results are shown in Ta-ble 5.
In this table, DMean, DMax, and DMin de-note the mean, maximum, and minimum values ofthe five Euclidean distances calculated from a totalof five unlearned data sets, respectively.
ComparingDProposed in Table 4 and DMean in Table 5, we findthat they are almost equivalent.
This means that theproposed method is also effective for unlearned data.Finally, we investigated how the accuracy of theproposed method was influenced by the size of thenewspaper database used in constructing an impres-sion lexicon.
First, using each of the 2002 to 2006editions, the 2005 to 2006 editions, and the 2006edition only, impression lexicons were constructed.Three regression equations were then obtained foreach lexicon in the same way.
Next, for each scale,we calculated the Euclidean distance between thevalues which were computed from all the 90 arti-cles using each lexicon and corrected with the corre-sponding regression equation, and the averages ob-tained in 4.1.
The results are shown in Table 6.
Table6 shows that the accuracy of the proposed method isreduced slightly as the size of newspaper database93becomes smaller.
Conversely, this suggests that theaccuracy of the proposed method can be improved asthe size of newspaper database increases.
We wouldlike to verify this suggestion in the near future.6 ConclusionThis paper has proposed a method for quantitativelyidentifying the impressions that people gain fromreading Japanese news articles.
The key elementof the proposed method lies in a new approach thatuses regression equations to correct impression val-ues computed from news articles by an unsuper-vised method.
Our investigation has shown that ac-curacy for learned data is improved by a range of23.2% to 42.7% by using regression equations, andthat accuracy for unlearned data is almost equiva-lent to the accuracy for learned data.
Note that, inthis paper, the target impressions are limited to thoserepresented by three bipolar scales, ?Happy ?
Sad,?
?Glad ?
Angry,?
and ?Peaceful ?
Strained,?
and thestrength of each impression is computed as a realnumber between 1 and 7 denoting a position on thecorresponding scale.Our main future work is described below.
Sincethe proposed method uses a word co-occurrencebased method to construct an impression lexicon, itmay not be effective for other types of scale.
Wetherefore need to examine and consider what kindsof scales are suitable for the proposed method.
Per-sonal adaptation is important in methods dealingwith impressions created by such artworks as musicand paintings.
In order to develop a method for moreaccurately quantifying readers?
impressions of newsarticles, we will also tackle this personal adaptationproblem.
Further, we plan to integrate the proposedmethod into a search engine, a recommendation sys-tem, and an electronic book reader, and to verify theeffectiveness of readers?
impressions of news arti-cles in creating a ranking index for information re-trieval and recommendation, or in determining thetype of emotional speech used in reading an e-paper.AcknowledgmentsA part of this work was sponsored by National In-stitute of Information and Communications Tech-nology (NICT), Japan, and was achieved under theproject named ?Evaluating Credibility of Web Infor-mation.
?ReferencesChristoph Bartneck.
2001.
How convincing is Mr. Data?ssmile: Affective expressions of machines.
User Mod-eling and User-Adapted Interaction, 11:279?295.R.
Cowie, E. Douglas-Cowie, N. Tsapatsoulis, G. Votsis,S.
Kollias, W. Fellenz, and J. G. Taylor.
2001.
Emo-tion recognition in human-computer interaction.
IEEESignal Processing Magazine, 18:32?80.Kate Forbes-Riley and Diane J. Litman.
2004.
Predict-ing emotion in spoken dialogue from multiple knowl-edge sources.
In Proc.
of Human Language Technol-ogy Conf.
of the NAACL, pages 201?208.Tamio Kan. 2000.
Multivariate Statistical Analysis.Gendai-Sugakusha, Kyoto, Japan.Yasushi Kiyoki, Takashi Kitagawa, and TakanariHayama.
1994.
A metadatabase system for seman-tic image search by a mathematical model of meaning.SIGMOD Rec., 23:34?41.Andrea Kleinsmith and Nadia Bianchi-Berthouze.
2007.Recognizing affective dimensions from body posture.In Proc.
of the Int.
Conf.
on Affective Computing andIntelligent Interaction, volume LNCS 4738, pages 48?58, September.Tadahiko Kumamoto and Katsumi Tanaka.
2005.
Pro-posal of impression mining from news articles.
InProc.
of Int.
Conf.
on Knowledge-Based IntelligentInformation and Engineering Systems, volume LNAI3681, pages 901?910.
Springer.Tadahiko Kumamoto.
2005.
Design and evaluation ofa music retrieval scheme that adapts to the user?s im-pressions.
In Proc.
of Int.
Conf.
on User Modeling,volume LNAI 3538, pages 287?296.
Springer.Tadahiko Kumamoto.
2010.
Design of impression scalesfor assessing impressions of news articles.
In Proc.
ofDASFAA Workshop on Social Networks and SocialMedia Mining on the Web, volume LNCS 6193, pages285?295.Sadao Kurohashi, Toshihisa Nakamura, Yuji Matsumoto,and Makoto Nagao.
1994.
Improvements of Japanesemorphological analyzer JUMAN.
In Proc.
of theInt.
Workshop on Sharable Natural Language Re-sources, pages 22?28, Nara, Japan.Kevin Hsin-Yih Lin, Changhua Yang, and Hsin-HsiChen.
2008.
Emotion classification of online newsarticles from the reader?s perspective.
In Proc.
of theIEEE/WIC/ACM Int.
Conf.
on Web Intelligence and In-telligent Agent Technology, pages 220?226, Washing-ton, DC, USA.
IEEE Computer Society.Dominic W. Massaro.
1998.
Perceiving Talking Faces:From Speech Perception to a Behavioral Principle.MIT Press, USA.94Susumu Ohno and Masando Hamanishi, editors.
1986.Ruigo-Kokugo-Jiten.
Kadokawa Shoten PublishingCo.,Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.Rosalind W. Picard.
1997.
Affective Computing.
MITPress.Akira Sato, Jun Ogawa, and Hajime Kitakami.
2000.
Animpression-based retrieval system of music collection.In Proc.
of the Int.
Conf.
on Knowledge-Based Intelli-gent Information Engineering Systems & Allied Tech-nologies, volume 2, pages 856?859, Brighton, UK.Tsuyoshi Takayama, Hirotaka Sasaki, and ShigeyukiKuroda.
2005.
Personalization by relevance rankingfeedback in impression-based retrieval for multimediadatabase.
Journal of Systematics, Cybernetics and In-formatics, 3(2):85?89.Peter D. Turney.
2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?semantic orientation applied to unsupervised classifi-cation of reviews.
In Proc.
of the Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pages417?424, Philadelphia, USA.95
