Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies, pages 128?136,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 30, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsExperimental Identification of the Use of Hedges in the Simplification ofNumerical ExpressionsSusana Bautista and Raquel Herva?s and Pablo Gerva?sUniversidad Complutense de Madrid, Spain{raquelhb,subautis}@fdi.ucm.es, pgervas@sip.ucm.esRichard Power and Sandra WilliamsDepartment of Computing, The Open University, Milton Keynes MK76AA, UK{r.power,s.h.williams}@open.ac.ukAbstractNumerical information is very common inall kinds of documents from newspapers andmagazines to household bills and wage slips.However, many people find it difficult to un-derstand, particularly people with poor educa-tion and disabilities.
Sometimes numerical in-formation is presented with hedges that mod-ify the meaning.
A numerical hedge is a wordor phrase employed to indicate explicitly thatsome loss of precision has taken place (e.g.,?around?)
and it may also indicate the di-rection of approximation (e.g., ?more than?
).This paper presents a study of the use of nu-merical hedges that is part of research inves-tigating the process of rewriting difficult nu-merical expressions in simpler ways.
We car-ried out a survey in which experts in numer-acy were asked to simplify a range of pro-portion expressions and analysed the results toobtain guidelines for automating the simplifi-cation task.1 IntroductionAll public information services and documentsshould be accessible in such a way that makes themeasily understood by everybody, according to theUnited Nations (1994).
Nowadays, a large percent-age of information expressed in daily news comesin the form of numerical expressions (statistics ofeconomy, demography data, etc).
But many peoplehave problems with understanding such expressions-e.g., people with limited education or some kind ofmental disability.Lack of ability to understand numerical informa-tion is an even greater problem than poor literacy.A U.K. Government Survey in 2003 estimated that6.8 million adults had insufficient numeracy skillsto perform simple everyday tasks such as payinghouse-hold bills and understanding wage slips, and23.8 million adults would be unable to achieve gradeC in the GCSE maths examination for 16 year-oldschool children (Williams et al, 2003).A first possible approach to solve this impor-tant social problem is making numerical informa-tion accessible by rewriting difficult numerical ex-pressions using alternative wordings that are easierto understand.
Some loss of precision could havepositive advantages for numerate people as well asless numerate.
Such an approach would require aset of rewriting strategies yielding expressions thatare linguistically correct, easier to understand thanthe original, and as close as possible to the originalmeaning.In rewriting, hedges play an important role.
Forexample,?50.9%?
could be rewritten as ?just overhalf?
using the hedge ?just over?.
In this kind ofsimplification, hedges indicate that the original num-ber has been approximated and, in some cases, alsothe direction of approximation.This paper presents a preliminary study of the useof hedges when numerical expressions are simplifiedto make them more accessible.
We have carried outa survey in which experts in numeracy were asked tosimplify a range of proportion expressions to obtainguidelines for developing the numerical expressionssimplification task automatically.
As a first step to-wards more complex simplification strategies, we128are trying to simplify numerical expressions withoutlosing substantial information.
Our study does nothave a particular kind of disability in mind.
Rather,we aim to simplify according to levels of difficultydefined in the Mathematics Curriculum of the Quali-fications and Curriculum Authority (1999).
Adapta-tion to particular types of users is beyond the scopeof this paper.2 BackgroundText simplification, a relative new task in Natu-ral Language Processing, has been directed mainlyat syntactic constructions and lexical choices thatsome readers find difficult, such as long sentences,passives, coordinate and subordinate clauses, ab-stract words, low frequency words, and abbrevia-tions.
Chandrasekar et al (1996) introduced a two-stage process, first transforming from sentence tosyntactic tree, then from syntactic tree to new sen-tence; Siddharthan (2002) instead proposed a three-stage process comprising analysis, transformationand generation.
In 1998, the project PSET (Car-roll et al, 1998) employed lexical as well as syn-tactic simplifications.
Other researchers have fo-cused on the generation of readable texts for readerswith low basic skills (Williams and Reiter, 2005),and for teaching foreign languages (Petersen andOstendorf, 2007).
There has been some previouswork on numerical expressions but more for expertsthan for people who have difficulties with numer-acy (Ellen Peters and Dieckmann, 2007), (NathanF.
Dieckmann and Peters, 2009), (Ann M. Bisantzand Munch, 2005), (Mishra H, 2011).
However,to our knowledge, there have been no previous at-tempts to automatically simplify numerical informa-tion in texts.A corpus of numerical expressions was collectedfor the NUMGEN project (Williams and Power,2009).
The corpus contains 10 sets of newspaper ar-ticles and scientific papers (110 texts in total).
Eachset is a collection of articles on the same topic ?e.g., the increased risk of breast cancer in red meateaters, and the decline in the puffin population onthe Isle of May.
Within each set, identical numeri-cal facts are presented in a variety of linguistic andmathematical forms.3 ExperimentOur survey took the form of a questionnaire inwhich participants were shown a sentence contain-ing one or more numerical expressions which theywere asked to simplify using hedges if necessary.3.1 MaterialsOur simplification strategies are focused at two lev-els: decimal percentages and whole-number per-centages.
For the survey we chose three sets of can-didate sentences from the NUMGEN corpus: eightsentences containing only decimal percentages andtwo sets of eight sentences containing mixed whole-number and decimal percentages.
The number ofnumerical expressions are more than eight becausesome sentences contained more than one proportionexpression.A wide spread of proportion values was present ineach set, including the two end points at nearly 0.0and almost 1.0.
We also included some numericalexpressions with hedges and sentences from differ-ent topics in the corpus.
In short, we included asmany variations in context, precision and differentwordings as possible.3.2 ParticipantsWe carried out the survey with primary or secondaryschool mathematics teachers or adult basic numer-acy tutors, all native English speakers.
We foundthem through personal contacts and posts to Inter-net forums.
The task of simplifying numerical ex-pressions is difficult, but it is a task that this groupseemed well qualified to tackle since they are highlynumerate and accustomed to talking to people whodo not understand mathematical concepts very well.Our experimental evaluation involved 34 partici-pants who answered at least one question in our sur-vey (some participants did not complete it).3.3 Survey Design and ImplementationThe survey was divided into three parts as follows:1.
Simplification of numerical expressions for aperson who can not understand percentages2.
Simplification of numerical expressions for aperson who can not understand decimals1293.
Free simplification of numerical expressionsfor a person with poor numeracyEach part of the survey is considered as a differ-ent kind of simplification: (1) simplification with nopercentages, (2) simplification with no decimals and(3) free simplification.For part (2), the set of sentences containing onlydecimal percentages was used.
One of the twomixed sets of sentences with whole-number anddecimal percentages was used for part (1) and theother for part (3).
The experiment was presented onSurveyMonkey1, a commonly-used provider of websurveys.
The survey was configured so that partic-ipants could leave the questionnaire and later con-tinue with it.We asked participants to provide simplificationsfor numerical expressions that were marked bysquare brackets in each sentence.
Below the sen-tence, each bracketed number was shown beside atext box in which the participant was asked to typethe simplified version.
Our instructions said that nu-merical expressions could be simplified using anyformat: number words, digits, fractions, ratios, etc.and that hedges such as ?more than?, ?almost?
andso on could be introduced if necessary.
Participantswere also told that the meaning of the simplified ex-pression should be as close to the original expres-sion as possible and that, if necessary, they couldrewrite part of the original sentence.
Figure 1 showsa screenshot of part of the questionnaire.3.4 Underlying assumptionsA numerical expression (NE) is considered to be aphrase that represents a quantity, sometimes modi-fied by a numerical hedge as in ?less than a quarter?or ?about 20%?.
We have restricted coverage to pro-portions -i.e., fractions, ratios and percentages.
Wehad five hypotheses:?
H1: The use of hedges to accompany the sim-plified numerical expression is influenced bythe simplification strategy selected.
We con-sider the use of fractions, ratios and percent-ages like simplification strategies.?
H2: The use of hedges to simplify the numeri-cal expression is influenced by the value of the1www.surveymonkey.comproportion, with values in the central range (say0.2 to 0.8) and values at the extreme ranges (say0.0-0.2 and 0.8-1.0) having a different use ofhedges.?
H3: The loss of precision allowed for the sim-plified numerical expression is influenced bythe simplification strategy selected.?
H4: There is some kind of correlation betweenthe loss of precision and the use of hedges, insuch a way that the increase or decrease in theformer influences changes in the latter.?
H5: As an specific case of H4, when writerschoose numerical expressions for readers withlow numeracy, they do not tend to use hedges ifthey are not losing precision.4 ResultsThe results of the survey were carefully analyzed asfollows.
First, within each block of questions, a setof simplification strategies was identified for eachspecific numerical expression.
These strategies werethen grouped together according to the mathematicalforms and/or linguistic expressions employed (frac-tions, ratios, percentages).With a view to using these data to design an au-tomated simplification system, these data have to beanalyzed in terms of pairs of a given input numeri-cal expression and the simplified expression result-ing from applying a specific simplification strategy.For such pairings, three important features must beconsidered as relevant to choosing a realization:?
Whether any numbers in the expression are re-alized as one of the different types of availableexpressions (fractions, ratios, percentages).?
The loss of precision involved in the simplifi-cation.?
The possible use of a hedge to cover this lossof precision explicitly in the simplified expres-sion.To calculate the loss of precision, we definedEquation 1.error =(simplifiedNE ?
originalNE)originalNE(1)130Figure 1: Screenshot of part of the questionnaire.The set of pairings of input expression and ob-served simplification strategies, loss of precision anduse of hedges as found in the results of the survey isgiven in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
For each input numer-ical expression, the set of available simplificationstrategies is represented as three lines in the table.For each pairing, three columns are shown in thetable.
Empty cells represent that the strategy wasnot used.
The first column presents the relative fre-quency of usage with respect to the total set of possi-ble simplification strategies used for that expression.The second column captures the loss of precision in-volved, represented in terms of the ratio between thevalue of the difference between the original numer-ical value in the input expression and the numericalvalue that is conveyed by the corresponding simpli-fied expression (using Equation 1).
This ratio is alsoexpressed as a percentage.
The third column indi-cates the percentage of simplified numerical expres-sions that contained a hedge.
All of them are meanvalues.Each line represents one kind of simplificationstrategy used to simplify the original numerical ex-pression.
Another point to explain is that frequen-cies that belong to the same expression do not al-ways add up to 100%.
This is because a small num-ber of others kinds of simplification strategies, likedeletions or rewriting of the whole sentence, are notshown in the table.
Moreover, we must keep in mindthat not all participants answered each question ofthe survey.Table 1 presents the relationships identified be-tween the original numerical expressions and thesimplification strategies (presented as lines) for theresults of the first part of the survey (simplificationof numerical expressions for a person who can notunderstand percentages).
All the values are repre-sented in percentages.
Table 2 represents the samedata for the second part of the survey (simplificationof numerical expressions for a person who can notunderstand decimals) and Table 3 for the third part(free simplification of numerical expressions for aperson with poor numeracy).In the three parts of the survey, the percentage ofsimplifications that use hedges is slightly higher thanthat of those not using hedges especially in the sec-ond and third part of the survey.
Adapting originalnumerical expressions by inserting hedges accountsfor more than the 50% of cases.
This reinforcesour assumption that simplifications involving loss ofprecision may be better understood if an appropriatehedge is used.4.1 Analysis of the Use of Hedges in theSimplified Numerical ExpressionsIn order to test hypothesis H1 (the use of hedgesin the simplified numerical expression is influencedby the simplification strategy selected), we carriedout a series of two sample t-tests where statisticalsignificance was adjusted for multiple comparisonsby using the Bonferroni correction.
Results are pre-sented in Table 4.
When considering the entire sur-vey (Whole column), there is no significant differ-ence in the use of hedges in fractions and percent-ages.
When analyzing the survey by parts we findsimilar results.
There is no significant difference inthe use of hedges in any strategy in the second (nodecimals) and the third (free simplification) parts of131Num.
Exp.
Frequency (%) Error (%) Hedge (%)Fractions 18 0 67more than 1% Ratios 6 0 100Percentages 18 17 50Fractions 6 0 502% Ratios 18 -1 17Percentages 12 0 0Fractions 26 1 6716.8% Ratios 65 5 45Percentages 9 -3 0Fractions 82 -4 8627% Ratios 12 8 75Percentages 6 6 50Fractions 41 0 93at least 30% Ratios 35 13 67Percentages 3 0 100Fractions 53 12 5040% Ratios 29 0 10Percentages 6 0 0Fractions 82 -13 8256% RatiosPercentages 6 -5 50Fractions 74 -3 8463% Ratios 24 0 75Percentages 3 0 0Fractions 32 0 075% Ratios 29 0 0PercentagesFractions 3 0 097.2% Ratios 38 -8 23Percentages 18 1 50Fractions 6 0 098% Ratios 12 0 0Percentages 3 0 0Fractions 39 -1 53Average Ratios 24 2 41Percentages 7 1 30Table 1: Analysis of the data for 34 participants from thefirst part of the survey (simplifications intended for peo-ple who do not understand percentages).
All values arepercentages.
The first column represents the frequenciesof use for each simplification strategy.
The second col-umn shows the error as the loss of precision involved inthe simplification.
And the last column displays the useof hedges in the simplifications.the survey, but in the first part (no percentages) wefind significant difference between fractions and ra-tios (p<0.0006).
These results do not support thehypothesis, as there is not a direct relation betweenthe use of hedges and the selected strategy.We performed another t-test adjusted by using theBonferroni correction on the simplification strate-gies and central and peripheral values to test hypoth-esis H2 (the use of hedges to simplify the numericalexpression is influenced by the value of the propor-tion, with values in the central range (say 0.2 to 0.8)and values at the extreme ranges (say 0.0-0.2 and0.8-1.0) having a different use of hedges).
In thiscase there is also no significant difference.
The re-sults show that the use of hedges is not influenced bycentral and peripheral values, rejecting our hypoth-esis H2 with a p-value p=0.77 in the worst case forthe percentages strategy.A new t-test adjusted by using the Bonferroni cor-Num.
Exp.
Frequency (%) Error (%) Hedge (%)Fractions 6 25 500.6% Ratios 9 22 33Percentages 47 21 100Fractions 3 -29 02.8% Ratios 24 6 63Percentages 47 7 63Fractions6.1% Ratios 18 -4 50Percentages 50 -3 82Fractions 12 9 757.5% Ratios 12 -10 0Percentages 50 7 41Fractions 15 -1 8015.5% Ratios 12 6 50Percentages 44 2 33Fractions 15 -3 10025.9% Ratios 12 -3 75Percentages 38 5 62Fractions 3 0 029.1% Ratios 15 3 60Percentages 50 2 71Fractions 12 -5 10035.4% Ratios 15 -4 60Percentages 41 -1 71Fractions 44 -2 9350.8% Ratios 3 0 0Percentages 21 0 43Fractions 44 1 9373.9% Ratios 6 1 50Percentages 18 0 50Fractions 3 0 087.8% Ratios 15 -1 60Percentages 47 1 88Fractions 3 0 096.9% Ratios 12 -2 75Percentages 29 0 80Fractions 6 0 5096.9% Ratios 18 -1 67Percentages 21 0 86Fractions 3 0 097.2% Ratios 18 -1 67Percentages 41 0 93Fractions 3 0 097.2% Ratios 18 -1 83Percentages 32 0 91Fractions 3 0 098.2% Ratios 15 -2 40Percentages 44 0 67Fractions 11 0 43Average Ratios 14 1 52Percentages 39 2 70Table 2: Analysis of the data for 34 participants fromthe second part of the survey (simplifications intended forpeople who do not understand decimals).
All values arepercentages.
The first column represents the frequenciesof use for each simplification strategy.
The second col-umn shows the error as the loss of precision involved inthe simplification.
And the last column displays the useof hedges in the simplifications.rection was done to test hypothesis H3 (the loss ofprecision allowed for the simplified numerical ex-pression is influenced by the simplification strategyselected).
Table 5 shows significant differences be-tween each simplification strategy and each kind ofsimplification.
In the Whole column we can observethat the loss of precision in fractions is significantlydifferent to the one in ratios and percentages.
In thefirst part (no percentages) there is a significant dif-ference between ratios and the rest of simplificationstrategies.
In the second part (no decimals) there is132Num.
Exp.
Frequency (%) Error (%) Hedge (%)Fractions0.7% Ratios 6 43 100Percentages 9 43 100Fractions 6 -17 10012% Ratios 21 -8 71Percentages 21 -17 100Fractions 41 -4 5726% Ratios 12 -4 50PercentagesFractions 41 -8 8636% Ratios 9 -2 67PercentagesFractions 41 -6 5053% RatiosPercentages 6 -6 50Fractions 21 -5 10065% Ratios 18 -1 33Percentages 3 0 0Fractions 15 0 2075% Ratios 9 0 33Percentages 3 0 0Fractions91% Ratios 29 -1 50Percentages 6 -1 50Fractionsabove 97% Ratios 32 0 64Percentages 6 2 100Fractions 18 -7 69Average Ratios 15 3 59Percentages 6 3 57Table 3: Analysis of the data for 34 participants from thethird part of the survey (free simplification intended forpeople with poor literacy).
All values are percentages.The first column represents the frequencies of use foreach simplification strategy.
The second column showsthe error as the loss of precision involved in the simplifi-cation.
And the last column displays the use of hedges inthe simplifications.no significant difference between any strategy.
Andin the last part (free simplification) there is only asignificant difference between fractions and ratios.These results seem not to support the hypothesis,as there is not a direct relation between the use ofhedges and the loss of precision in the simplified nu-merical expression.For hypothesis H4 (there is some kind of corre-lation between the loss of precision and the use ofhedges), we looked for correlations between eachpart of the survey and each kind of simplificationstrategy.
We carried out a non-parametric measureof statistical dependence between the two variables(loss of precision and use of hedges) calculated bythe Spearman?s rank correlation coefficient.In general, the results show no correlation, sothere is no linear dependence between the loss ofprecision in the strategy and use of hedges, rejectingour hypothesis.
For example, there are cases witha weak correlation (e.g.
in the second part of thesurvey for fractions with r=0.49, N=17 and p=0.03),and cases where there is a strong correlation (e.g.in the third part of the survey, with r=1, N=18 andp<.0001).Finally, when we analyzed hypothesis H5 (whenwriters choose numerical expressions for readerswith low numeracy, they do not tend to use hedges ifthey are not losing precision), we worked with eachpart of the survey to study the cases where the lossof precision is zero and what is the tendency of useof hedges.?
In the first part of the survey (simplificationof numerical expressions for a person who cannot understand percentages), considering our34 participants, in a 46% of responses the lossof precision is zero, and for these cases only11% used hedges.?
For the second part (simplification of numeri-cal expressions for a person who can not un-derstand decimals), considering our 34 partici-pants, in a 16% of responses the loss of preci-sion is zero and for these cases only 7% usedhedges.?
And finally, in the last part (simplification ofnumerical expressions for a person with poornumeracy), considering the same participants,in a 23% of cases the loss of precision is zeroin the simplification and for these cases only6% used hedges.With this data, it seems that we can accept hypoth-esis H5, that is, we found evidence for our assump-tion that when writers choose numerical expressionsfor readers with poor numeracy, they tend to usehedges when they round the original numerical ex-pression, i.e when the loss of precision is not zero.4.2 Original Numerical Expressions withHedgesIn our survey there were a few cases where the orig-inal numerical expression had a hedge.
We haveobserved that if the original numerical expressionhas hedge almost always the simplified numericalexpression contained a hedge.
There is a specialcase, ?above 97%?
where we do not count the useof hedges because in this case the participants chosenon-numeric options mostly and they rewrote thenumerical expression with phrases like ?around all?.133Strategy No Pct.
No Dec. Free Simp.
WholeFractions A A A APercentages A B A A ARatios B A A BTable 4: Results of t-test adjusted by Bonferroni correction for H1 (the use of hedges in simplified numerical ex-pressions is influenced by the simplification strategy selected).
Strategies which do not share a letter are significantlydifferent.Strategy No Pct.
No Dec. Free Simp.
WholeFractions A A A APercentages A A A B BRatios B A B BTable 5: Results of t-test adjusted by Bonferroni correction for H3 (the loss of precision allowed for the simplifiednumerical expression is influenced by the simplification strategy selected).
Strategies which do not share a letter aresignificantly different.In the remaining cases, the same hedge is nearly al-way chosen to simplify the numerical expression.4.3 Kinds of HedgesWith respect to the actual hedges used, we haveidentified two different possible roles of hedge in-gredients in a numerical expression.
In some cases,hedges are used to indicate that the actual numeri-cal value given is an approximation to the intendedvalue.
Uses of about or around are instances of this.This kind of hedge is employed to indicate explic-itly that some loss of precision has taken place dur-ing simplification.
In other cases, hedges are used toindicate the direction in which the simplified valuediverges from the original value.
Uses of under orover are instances of this.
In some cases more thanone hedge may be added to an expression to indi-cate both approximation and direction, or to some-how specify the precision involved in the simplifica-tion, as in just under or a little less than.In our analysis we studied which hedges werethe most frequent in each part of the survey.
Onlyhedges with more than ten appearances in total (in-cluding simplification strategies not present in thetable) have been considered in Table 6.
We observedthat the three parts of the survey have three hedgesin common: about, just over and over.
They areused in different strategies for each kind of simpli-fication.
In the second part of the survey, wheresimplifications of numerical expressions for a per-son who can not understand decimals are done, iswhere more hedges are used, in special for percent-ages strategy.
In the last part of the survey, wherethere is more freedom to decide how simplify theoriginal numerical expression, participants used lesshedges compare to the others parts.No PercentagesHedge Fractions Ratios Percent.about 15 9 0at least 8 5 1just over 21 1 0more than 9 3 0over 6 3 2Total 59 21 3No DecimalsHedges Fractions Ratios Percent.about 8 12 6almost 4 1 8just over 13 3 39just under 3 2 27nearly 7 5 24over 7 5 9Total 42 28 113Free SimplificationHedges Fractions Ratios Percent.about 6 5 1just over 6 0 5more than 4 5 0nearly 4 0 2over 11 2 3Total 31 12 11Table 6: Use of the most frequent hedges in each part ofthe survey1345 DiscussionAs can be seen in the results, the use of hedges tosimplify numerical expressions can be influenced bythree parameters.
The first is the kind of simplifica-tion.
Our survey was divided in three parts depend-ing on the mathematical knowledge of the final user.The second is the simplification strategy for choos-ing mathematical form (fractions, ratios, or percent-ages).
In our data we observed some differences inthe usage of hedges with ratios and their usage withfractions and percentages (see Table 4).
The last pa-rameter is the loss of precision that occurs when thenumerical expression is rounded.
We investigatedthe use of hedges vs. loss of precision with differenttests hoping to define some dependencies, but therewas no clear correlation between them, and it wasonly when we tried a deeper analysis of strategiesand kind of simplifications that we found some cor-relations such as those we presented in Section 4.1.When asked to simplify for people who do notunderstand percentages, or for people with poor nu-meracy, the participants use different simplificationstrategies and sometimes they use hedges to simplifythe original numerical expression.
As some partic-ipants commented, not only are percentages mathe-matically sophisticated forms, but they may be usedin sophisticated ways in the text, often for exampledescribing rising and falling values, for which in-creases or decreases can themselves be described inpercentages terms.
Such complex relationships arelikely to pose problems for people with poor numer-acy even if a suitable strategy can be found for sim-plifying the individual percentages.
In some of theexamples with more than one numerical expressionbeing compared, some of the evaluators reported atendency to phrase them both according to a com-parable base.
Thus we should consider the role ofcontext (the set of numerical expressions in a givensentence as a whole, and the meaning of the text) inestablishing what simplifications must be used.6 Conclusions and Future WorkThrough a survey administered to experts on nu-meracy, we have collected a wide range of exam-ples of appropriate simplifications of percentage ex-pressions.
These examples of simplified expressionsgive us information about the use of hedges that ourparticipants carry out to adapt the original numer-ical expression to be understood by the final user.We investigated the loss of precision that occurs witheach hedge and the relation between the simplifica-tion strategy and the use of hedges.Our aim is to use this data to guide the develop-ment of a system for automatically simplifying per-centages in texts.
With the knowledge acquired fromour study we will improve our algorithm to simplifynumerical expressions.
We could determinate fromthe simplification strategy, kind of simplification andthe loss of precision allowed, which will be the bestoption to adapt the original numerical expression tothe final user and if that option uses hedges to under-stand better the original numerical expression.
As apart of our algorithm, we will have to look at inter-rater agreements for identifying appropriate hedges.As future work, we plan to carry out another studyto determine a ranking of simplification strategiesfrom collecting a repertoire of rewriting strategiesused to simplify.
This data should allow us to deter-mine whether common values are considered sim-pler and whether the value of the original expressioninfluences the chosen simplification strategy.
So,given a numerical expression, we could choose whatsimplification strategy to apply and whether to inserta hedge.
We could investigate whether the value ofthe original proportion also influences choices, de-pending on its correspondence with central or pe-ripheral values.We have also collected a parallel corpus of numer-ical expressions (original vs. simplified version).This corpus will be shared with other researches soit can be used in different applications to improvethe readability of text.
This could be a very use-ful resource because simplification of percentagesremains an interesting and non-trivial problem.AcknowledgmentsThis research is funded by the Spanish Ministryof Education and Science (TIN2009-14659-C03-01Project), Universidad Complutense de Madrid andBanco Santander Central Hispano (GR58/08 Re-search Group Grant), and the FPI grant program.135ReferencesStephanie Schinzing Marsiglio Ann M. Bisantz and Jes-sica Munch.
2005.
Displaying uncertainty: Inves-tigating the effects of display format and specificity.Human Factors: The Journal of the Human Factorsand Ergonomics Society, 47(4):777.J.
Carroll, G. Minnen, Y. Canning, S. Devlin, and J. Tait.1998.
Practical simplification of English newspapertext to assist aphasic readers.
In AAAI-98 Workshop onIntegrating Artificial Intelligence and Assistive Tech-nology, Madison, Wisconsin.Raman Chandrasekar, Christine Doran, and BangaloreSrinivas.
1996.
Motivations and Methods for TextSimplification.
In COLING, pages 1041?1044.Paul Slovic Ellen Peters, Judith Hibbard and NathanDieckmann.
2007.
Numeracy skill and the commu-nication, comprehension, and use of risk-benefit infor-mation.
Health Affairs, 26(3):741?748.Shiv B. Mishra H, Mishra A.
2011.
In praise of vague-ness: malleability of vague information as a perfor-mance booster.
Psychological Science, 22(6):733?8,April.Paul Slovic Nathan F. Dieckmann and Ellen M. Peters.2009.
The use of narrative evidence and explicit like-lihood by decisionmakers varying in numeracy.
RiskAnalysis, 29(10).The United Nations.
1994.
Normas uniformes sobre laigualdad de oportunidades para las personas con dis-capacidad.
Technical report.Sarah E. Petersen and Mari Ostendorf.
2007.
Text Sim-plification for Language Learners: A Corpus Analy-sis.
Speech and Language Technology for Education(SLaTE).Qualification and Curriculum Authority.
1999.
Mathe-matics: the national curriculum for england.
Depart-ment for Education and Employment, London.Advaith Siddharthan.
2002.
Resolving Attachment andClause Boundary Amgiguities for Simplifying Rela-tive Clause Constructs.
In Proceedings of the StudentResearch Workshop, 40th Meeting of the Associationfor Computacional Linguistics.Sandra Williams and Richard Power.
2009.
Precisionand mathematical form in first and subsequent men-tions of numerical facts and their relation to documentstructure.
In Proceedings of the 12th European Work-shop on Natural Language Generation, Athens.Sandra Williams and Ehud Reiter.
2005.
Generatingreadable texts for readers with low basic skills.
InProceeding of the 10th European Workshop on Natu-ral Language Generation, pages 140?147, Aberdeen,Scotland.Joel Williams, Sam Clemens, Karin Oleinikova, andKaren Tarvin.
2003.
The Skills for Life survey: Anational needs and impact survey of literacy, numer-acy and ICT skills.
Technical Report Research Report490, Department for Education and Skills.136
