Proceedings of the UCNLG+Eval: Language Generation and Evaluation Workshop, pages 23?27,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 31, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Corpus of Human-written Summaries of Line GraphsCharles F. Greenbacker, Sandra Carberry, and Kathleen F. McCoyDepartment of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of Delaware, Newark, Delaware, USA[charlieg|carberry|mccoy]@cis.udel.eduAbstractWe describe a corpus of human-written En-glish language summaries of line graphs.
Thiscorpus is intended to help develop a systemto automatically generate summaries captur-ing the most salient information conveyed byline graphs in popular media, as well as toevaluate the output of such a system.1 MotivationWe are developing a system designed to automati-cally generate summaries of the high-level knowl-edge conveyed by line graphs found in multimodaldocuments from popular media sources (e.g., mag-azines, newspapers).
Intended applications includemaking these graphics more accessible for peoplewith visual impairments and indexing their infor-mational content for digital libraries.
Informationgraphics like line graphs are generally included ina multimodal document in order to make a pointsupporting the overall communicative intent of thedocument.
Our goal is to produce summaries thatconvey the knowledge gleaned by humans when in-formally viewing the graphic, focusing on the ?take-away?
message rather than the raw data points.1Studies have shown (Carberry et al, 2006) thatthe captions of information graphics in popular me-dia often do not repeat the message conveyed by thegraphic itself; such captions are thus not appropriatefor use as a summary.
Furthermore, while scientificgraphs are designed for experts trained in their use1Users generally prefer conceptual image descriptions overperceptual descriptions (Jo?rgensen, 1998; Hollink et al, 2004).for data visualization, information graphics in pop-ular media are meant to be understood by all read-ers, including those with only a primary school ed-ucation.
Accordingly, summaries for these graphicsshould be tailored for the same general audience.Research into information graphics by Wu et al(2010) has identified a limited number of intendedmessage categories conveyed by line graphs in pop-ular media.
Their efforts included the creation of acorpus2 of line graphs marked with the overall in-tended message identified by human annotators.However, we hypothesize that an effective sum-mary should present the graph?s intended messageplus additional informational propositions that elab-orate on this message.
McCoy et al (2001) observedthat the intended message was consistently includedin line graph summaries written by human subjects.Furthermore, participants in that study augmentedthe intended message with descriptions of salient vi-sual features of the graphic (e.g., steepness of a trendline, volatility of data values).
As part of the pro-cess of building a system to identify which visualfeatures are salient and to describe them using nat-ural language expressions, we collected a corpus ofhuman-written summaries of line graphs.2 Building the CorpusWe selected 23 different line graphs for use in build-ing our corpus.
This set covered the eight most-common intended message categories from the Wucorpus; only Point Correlation and Stable Trendwere omitted.
Table 1 shows the distribution of2www.cis.udel.edu/~carberry/Graphs/viewallgraphs.php23Message Category No.
(graphs)Big Fall (BF) 4 (20?23)Big Jump (BJ) 2 (18, 19)Changing Trend (CT) 4 (8?11)Change Trend Return (CTR) 2 (12, 13)Contrast Trend withLast Segment (CTLS)2 (14, 15)Contrast Segment withChanging Trend (CSCT)2 (16, 17)Rising Trend (RT) 4 (1?4)Falling Trend (FT) 3 (5?7)Total 23 (1?23)Table 1: Distribution of overall intended message cate-gories in the set of line graphs used to build the corpus.graphs across message categories.3 Ten of the linegraphs were real world examples in popular mediataken from the Wu corpus (e.g., Figure 1).
Anotherten graphs were adapted from items in the Wu cor-pus ?
modified in order to isolate visual features sothat their individual effects could be analyzed (e.g.,Figure 2).
The remaining three line graphs were cre-ated specifically to fill a gap in the coverage of in-tended messages and visual features for which nogood example was available (e.g., Figure 3).
Ourgoal was to include as many different combinationsof message category and visual features as possible(e.g., for graphs containing a dramatic change in val-ues because of a big jump or fall, we included ex-amples which sustained the change as well as othersthat did not sustain the change).69 subjects participated in our study.
All werenative English speakers, 18 years of age or older,without major sight impairments, and enrolled in anintroductory computer science course at a universityin the US.
They received a small amount of extracredit in their course for participating in this study.Each participant was given the full set of 23 linegraphs in differing orders.
With each graph, the sub-jects were presented with an initial summary sen-tence describing the overall intended message of thegraphic, as identified by a human annotator.
Thecaptions for Figures 1, 2, and 3 each contain the cor-responding initial summary sentence that was pro-vided to the participants.
Participants were taskedwith writing additional sentences so that the com-3Category descriptions can be found in (Wu et al, 2010).Figure 1: From ?This Cable Outfit Is Getting Tuned In?in Businessweek magazine, Oct 4, 1999.
(Initial sentence:?This line graph shows a big jump in Blonder TongueLaboratories stock price in August ?99.?
)pleted summary of each line graph captured the mostimportant information conveyed by the graphic, fin-ishing as many or as few of the 23 graphs as theywished during a single one-hour session.Participants were told that we were developing asystem to convey an initial summary of an informa-tion graphic from popular media (as opposed to text-books or scientific articles) to blind users via speech.We indicated that the summaries they write shouldbe brief (though we did not specify any length re-quirements), but ought to include all essential infor-mation provided by the graphic.
Subjects were onlygiven the graphics and did not receive the original ar-ticle text (if any existed) that accompanied the real-world graphs.
Finally, the participants were told thata person able to see the graphics should not thinkthat the summaries they wrote were misleading.3 Corpus CharacteristicsA total of 965 summaries were collected, rangingfrom 37 to 49 summaries for each individual linegraph.
Table 2 offers some descriptive statistics forthe corpus as a whole, while Table 3 lists the tenmost commonly-occurring content words.Sample summary 1 (18-4.txt) was written for Fig-ure 1, summary 2 (7-40.txt) for Figure 2, and sum-maries 3 (9-2.txt) and 4 (9-5.txt) both for Figure 3:24!Figure 2: Adapted from original in ?Dell goes with a fewAMD chips,?
USA Today, Oct 19, 2006.
(Initial sentence:?This line graph shows a falling trend in Dell stock fromMay ?05 to May ?06.?
)From March 26, 1999 the graph rises and de-clines up until August 1999 where it rises atabout a 90-degree angle then declines again.
(1)The graph peaked in July ?05 but then sharplydecreased after that.
It had several sharp in-clines and declines and ended with a shaperdecline from March ?06 to May ?06.
(2)February has a much larger amount of jacketssold than the other months shown.
From dec-ember to january, there was a slight drop inthe amount of jackets sold and then a largespike from january to february.
(3)The values in November and May are prettyclose, with both being around 37 or 38jackets.
At its peak (February), around 47jackets were sold.
(4)4 Potential UsageTo our knowledge, this is the first and only publicly-available corpus of line graph summaries.
It has sev-eral possible applications in both natural languagegeneration and evaluation tasks.
By finding and ex-amining patterns in the summaries, we can discoverwhich propositions are found to be most salient forcertain kinds of graphs.
We are currently analyzingthe collected corpus for this very purpose ?
to iden-tify relationships between visual features, intendedmessages, and the relative importance of includ-ing corresponding propositions in a summary (e.g.,volatility is more salient in Figure 2 than Figure 3).
!Figure 3: Sample line graph created for this study.
(Ini-tial sentence: ?This line graph shows a rising trend inBoscov?s jacket sales from November to February fol-lowed by a falling trend through May.?
)Metric Valuetotal characters 213,261total words (w) 45,217total sentences 2,184characters per word 4.72words per sentence 20.70sentences per summary 2.26unique words (u) 1,831lexical diversity (w/u) 24.70hapax legomena 699pct.
of unique words 38.18%pct.
of total words 1.55%Table 2: Various descriptive statistics for the corpus.Not only does this corpus offer insight into whathumans perceive to be the most important informa-tion conveyed by line graphs, it provides a large setof real-world expressions from which to draw whencrafting the surface realization forms for summariesof line graphs.
From a generation perspective, thiscollection of summaries offers copious examples ofthe expressions human use to describe characteris-tics of information graphics.
The corpus could alsobe used to determine the proper structural character-istics of a line graph summary (e.g., when multipleinformation is included, how propositions are aggre-gated into sentences, which details come first).The evaluation of graph understanding systemswill also benefit from the use of this corpus.
It willenable comparisons between system and human-25Word Count Word Countgraph 715 stock 287price 349 increase 280august 305 may 279dollars 300 decrease 192around 299 trend 183Table 3: The ten most frequently occurring words in thecorpus (omitting stopwords and punctuation).generated descriptions at the propositional (content)level, as well as judgments involving clarity and co-herence.
The set of summaries for each graph maybe used as a ?gold standard?
against which to com-pare automatically-generated summaries in prefer-ence judgment experiments involving human judges.We are currently developing rules for identifyingthe most salient information conveyed by a givenline graph based on an analysis of this corpus, andwill also use the expressions in the collected sum-maries as examples for surface realization during thesummary generation process.
Additionally, we areplanning to use the corpus during part of the evalu-ation phase of our project, by asking human judgesto compare these human-written summaries againstour system?s output across multiple dimensions ofpreference.
It may also be useful to perform someadditional human subjects experiments to determinewhich summaries in the corpus are found to be mosthelpful and understandable.5 Related WorkPrior to this study, we performed an initial investi-gation based on a questionnaire similar to the oneused by Demir (2010) for bar charts.
A group ofhuman subjects was asked to review several linegraphs and indicate how important it would be toinclude various propositions in an initial summaryof each graphic.
Although this method was effec-tive with bar charts, it proved to be far too cumber-some to work with line graphs.
Bar charts are some-what simpler, propositionally-speaking, as there arefewer informational propositions that can be ex-tracted from data represented as discrete bars ratherthan as a continuous data series in a line graph.It required far more effort for subjects to evaluatethe relative importance of each individual proposi-tion than to simply provide (in the form of a writ-ten summary) the set of propositions they consid-ered to be most important.
In the end, the summary-based approach allowed for a more direct exami-nation of salience judgments without subjects be-ing constrained or influenced by the questions andstructure of the questionnaire-based approach, withthe added bonus of producing a reusable corpus ofhuman-written summaries of line graphs.McCoy et al (2001) performed a study in whichparticipants were asked to write brief summaries fora series of line graphs.
While they did not releasea corpus for distribution, their analysis did suggestthat a graph?s visual features could be used to helpselect salient propositions to include in a summary.Although several corpora exist for general im-age descriptions, we are unaware of any other cor-pora of human-written summaries for informationgraphics.
Jo?rgensen (1998) collected unconstraineddescriptions of pictorial images, while Hollink etal.
(2004) analyzed descriptions of mental imagesformed by subjects to illustrate a given text pas-sage.
Aker and Gaizauskas (2010) built a corpus ofhuman-generated captions for location-related im-ages.
Large collections of general image captionshave been assembled for information retrieval tasks(Smeaton and Quigley, 1996; Tribble, 2010).
Roy(2002) evaluated automatically-generated descrip-tions of visual scenes against human-generated de-scriptions.
The developers of the iGraph-Lite system(Ferres et al, 2007) released a corpus of descrip-tions for over 500 graphs collected from StatisticsCanada, but these descriptions were generated auto-matically by their system and not written by humanauthors.
Additionally, the descriptions contained intheir corpus focus on the quantitative data presentedin the graphics rather than the high-level message,and tend to vary only slightly between graphs.4Since using corpus texts as a ?gold standard?
ingeneration and evaluation can be tricky (Reiter andSripada, 2002), we tried to mitigate some of thecommon problems, including giving participants asmuch time as they wanted for each summary toavoid ?hurried writing.?
However, as we intend touse this corpus to understand which propositions hu-mans find salient for line graphs, as well as generat-4The iGraph-Lite system provides the same information foreach instance of a graph type (i.e., all summaries of line graphscontain the same sorts of information).26ing and evaluating new summaries, a larger collec-tion of examples written by many authors for severaldifferent graphics was more desirable than a smallercorpus of higher-quality texts from fewer authors.6 AvailabilityThe corpus is freely available for download5 withoutrestrictions under an open source license.The structure of the corpus is as follows.
The?summaries?
directory consists of a series of subdi-rectories numbered 1-23 containing the summariesfor all 23 line graphs, with each summary stored ina separate file (encoded as ASCII text).
The filesare named according to the graph they are associ-ated with and their position in that graph?s collec-tion (e.g., 8-10.txt is the 10th summary for the 8thline graph, and is located in the directory named 8).The root of the distribution package contains adirectory of original image files for the line graphs(named ?line graphs?
), the initial sentences describ-ing each graph?s intended message (which was pro-vided to the participants) in sentences.txt, and aREADME file describing the corpus layout.The corpus is easily loaded with NLTK (Loperand Bird, 2002) using these Python commands:from nltk.corpus import PlaintextCorpusReaderLGSroot = './LGSummaryCorpus/summaries'corpus = PlaintextCorpusReader(LGSroot, '.
*')AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by the National In-stitute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research un-der Grant No.
H133G080047.ReferencesAhmet Aker and Robert Gaizauskas.
2010.
Model sum-maries for location-related images.
In Proceedingsof the Seventh Conference on International LanguageResources and Evaluation, LREC ?10, pages 3119?3124, Malta, May.
ELRA.Sandra Carberry, Stephanie Elzer, and Seniz Demir.2006.
Information graphics: an untapped resource fordigital libraries.
In Proceedings of the 29th AnnualInternational ACM SIGIR Conference on Researchand Development in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ?06,pages 581?588, Seattle, August.
ACM.5www.cis.udel.edu/~mccoy/corporaSeniz Demir.
2010.
SIGHT for Visually Impaired Users:Summarizing Information Graphics Textually.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Delaware, February.Leo Ferres, Petro Verkhogliad, Gitte Lindgaard, LouisBoucher, Antoine Chretien, and Martin Lachance.2007.
Improving accessibility to statistical graphs: theiGraph-Lite system.
In Proceedings of the 9th Inter-national ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computersand Accessibility, ASSETS ?07, pages 67?74, Tempe,October.
ACM.L.
Hollink, A. Th.
Schreiber, B. J. Wielinga, and M. Wor-ring.
2004.
Classification of user image descriptions.International Journal of Human-Computer Studies,61(5):601?626, November.Corinne Jo?rgensen.
1998.
Attributes of images in de-scribing tasks.
Information Processing and Manage-ment, 34:161?174, March?May.Edward Loper and Steven Bird.
2002.
NLTK: The nat-ural language toolkit.
In Proceedings of the ACL-02Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies forTeaching Natural Language Processing and Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 63?70, Philadelphia, July.ACL.Kathleen F. McCoy, M. Sandra Carberry, Tom Roper,and Nancy Green.
2001.
Towards generating textualsummaries of graphs.
In Proceedings of the 1st Inter-national Conference on Universal Access in Human-Computer Interaction, UAHCI 2001, pages 695?699,New Orleans, August.
Lawrence Erlbaum.Ehud Reiter and Somayajulu Sripada.
2002.
Should cor-pora texts be gold standards for NLG?
In Proceed-ings of the Second International Conference on Natu-ral Language Generation, INLG 2002, pages 97?104,Harriman, New York, July.
ACL.Deb K. Roy.
2002.
Learning visually grounded wordsand syntax for a scene description task.
ComputerSpeech & Language, 16(3?4):353?385, July?October.Alan F. Smeaton and Ian Quigley.
1996.
Experiments onusing semantic distances between words in image cap-tion retrieval.
In Proceedings of the 19th Annual Inter-national ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and De-velopment in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ?96, pages174?180, Zurich, August.
ACM.Alicia Tribble.
2010.
Textual Inference for RetrievingLabeled Object Descriptions.
Ph.D. thesis, CarnegieMellon University, April.Peng Wu, Sandra Carberry, Stephanie Elzer, and DanielChester.
2010.
Recognizing the intended messageof line graphs.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-tional Conference on the Theory and Application ofDiagrams, Diagrams 2010, pages 220?234, Portland,Oregon, August.
Springer-Verlag.27
