Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2011: the 12th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 344?346,Portland, Oregon, June 17-18, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsPOMY: A Conversational Virtual Environment for Language Learningin POSTECHHyungjongNohKyusongLeeSungjinLeeGary GeunbaeLeeDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringPohang University of Science & Technology, Pohang, South Korea{nohhj, kyusonglee, junion, gblee}@postech.ac.krAbstractThis demonstration will illustrate an inter-active immersive computer game, POMY,designed to help Korean speakers learnEnglish.
This system allows learners to ex-ercise their visual and aural senses, receiv-ing a full immersion experience to increasetheir memory and concentration abilities toa greatest extent.
In POMY, learners canhave free conversations with game charac-ters and receive corrective feedback to theirerrors.
Game characters show various emo-tional expressions based on learners?
inputto keep learners motivated.
Through thissystem, learners can repeatedly practiceconversations in everyday life setting in aforeign language with no embarrassment.1 IntroductionThe needs for computer-based methods for learn-ing language skills and components are increasing.One of the ultimate goals of computer-assistedlanguage learning is to provide learners with animmersive environment that facilitates acquiringcommunicative competence.
According to SecondLanguage Acquisition (SLA) theories, there aresome essential factors for improving learners?
con-versational skills: 1) comprehensible inputs andoutputs, 2) corrective feedback, and 3) motivationand attitude.
SLA theories imply that providinglearners with the opportunity to have free conver-sations with someone who can correct their errorsis very important for successful acquisition of for-eign languages.
Moreover, motivation is anothercrucial factor; therefore a good CALL systemshould have elements which can interest learners[1].Considering these requirements, we have devel-oped a conversational English education frame-work, POMY (POstech iMmersive English studY).The program allows users to exercise their visualand aural senses to receive a full immersion expe-rience to develop into independent English as aForeign Language (EFL) learners and increasetheir memory and concentration abilities to agreatest extent [2].Figure 1: Example screenshots of POMY: path-finding, post office, and market3442 Demonstrated SystemIn order to provide learners with immersive world,we have developed a virtual reality environmentusing the Unity 3D game engine1.
For the domainsthat learners are exposed to, we select such do-mains as path-finding, market, post office, library,and movie theater (Figure 1) to ensure havinglearners practice conversations in everyday lifesetting.
To keep learners motivated and interestedduring learning sessions, learners are encouragedto accomplish several missions.
For example, thefirst mission in the post office is to send a camerato one?s uncle in England.
The package must beinsured and delivered by the next week.
In order tosend the package, a learner must talk to Non-Player Characters (NPCs) to fill in the zip-codeproperly.All NPCs can perceive the utterances of learners,especially Korean learners of English.
Koreanlearners?
production of the sound is different fromthose of native speakers, resulting in numerouspronunciation errors.
Therefore, we have collecteda Korean-English corpus to train acoustic models.In addition, since language learners commit nu-merous grammatical errors, we should considerthis to understand their utterances.
Thus, we statis-tically infer the actual learners' intention by takingnot only the utterance itself but also the dialog con-text into consideration, as human tutors do [1].While free conversation is invaluable to theacquisition process, it is not sufficient for learnersto fully develop their L2 proficiency.
Correctivefeedback to learners?
grammatical errors isnecessary for improving accuracy in theirinterlanguage.
For this purpose, we designed a1 http://unity3d.com/special character, Ghost Tutor, which plays therole of English tutor and helps learners to use moreappropriate words and expressions during the game.When a learner produces ungrammatical utterances,the Ghost Tutor provides both implicit and explicitnegative and positive feedback in a form ofelicitation or recast, which was manifested aseffective ways in the second language acquisitionprocesses [3].
To provide corrective feedback ongrammatical errors, we use a method which con-sists of two sub-models: the grammaticality check-ing model and the error type classification model[4].
Firstly, we automatically generate grammaticalerrors that learners usually commit [5-6], and con-struct error patterns based on the articulated errors.Then the grammaticality checking model classifiesthe recognized user speech based on the similaritybetween the error patterns and the recognition re-sult using confidence scores.
After that, the errortype classification model chooses the error typebased on the most similar error pattern and the er-ror frequency extracted from a learner corpus.Finally, the human perception of NPC?s emo-tional expressions plays a crucial role in humancomputer interaction.
Thus, all NPCs are providedwith a number of communicative animations suchas talking, laughing, waving, crying, thinking, andgetting angry (Figure 2).The total number of ani-mations is over thirty from which the system canselect one based on the response of a learner.
Thesystem generates positive expressions such asclapping and laughing when the learner answerscorrectly, and negative expressions such as cryingand getting angry for incorrect answers.Figure 2: Various character animations345AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the Industrial Strate-gic technology development program, 10035252,development of dialog-based spontaneous speechinterface technology on mobile platform, fundedby the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE,Korea), and by Basic Science Research Programthrough the National Research Foundation of Ko-rea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Education,Science and Technology (2010-0019523).ReferencesLee, S., Noh, H., Lee, J., Lee, K., Lee, G. G., Sagong, S.,Kim, M. 2011.
On the Effectiveness of Robot-Assisted Language Learning, ReCALL Journal,Vol.23(1).Lee, S., Noh, H., Lee, J., Lee, K., Lee, G. G. 2010.POSTECH Approaches for Dialog-based EnglishConversation Tutoring.
Proceedings of the APSIPAannual summit and conference, Singapore.Long, M. H., Inagaki, S., Ortega, L. 1998.
The Role ofInput and Interaction in Second Language Acquisi-tion.
The Modern Language Journal, 82, 357-371.Lee, S., Noh, H., Lee, K., Lee, G. G. 2011.
Grammaticalerror detection for corrective feedback provision inoral conversations.
Proceedings of the 25th AAAIconference on artificial intelligence (AAAI-11), SanFrancisco.Lee, S., Lee J., Noh, H., Lee, K., Lee, G. G, 2011.Grammatical Error Simulation for Computer-Assisted Language Learning, Knowledge-Based Sys-tems (to be published).Lee, S. and Lee, G. G. 2009.
Realistic grammar errorsimulation using markov logic.
Proceedings of theACL, Singapore.346
