Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning, pages 220?228,Portland, Oregon, USA, 23?24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsComposing Simple Image Descriptions using Web-scale N-gramsSiming Li, Girish Kulkarni, Tamara L Berg, Alexander C Berg, and Yejin ChoiDepartment of Computer ScienceStony Brook UniversityNY 11794, USA{silli, gkulkarni, tlberg, aberg, ychoi}@cs.stonybrook.eduAbstractStudying natural language, and especially howpeople describe the world around them canhelp us better understand the visual world.
Inturn, it can also help us in the quest to generatenatural language that describes this world in ahuman manner.
We present a simple yet effec-tive approach to automatically compose im-age descriptions given computer vision basedinputs and using web-scale n-grams.
Unlikemost previous work that summarizes or re-trieves pre-existing text relevant to an image,our method composes sentences entirely fromscratch.
Experimental results indicate that it isviable to generate simple textual descriptionsthat are pertinent to the specific content of animage, while permitting creativity in the de-scription ?
making for more human-like anno-tations than previous approaches.1 IntroductionGaining a better understanding of natural language,and especially natural language associated with im-ages helps drive research in both computer visionand natural language processing (e.g., Barnard etal.
(2003), Pastra et al (2003), Feng and Lapata(2010b)).
In this paper, we look at how to exploitthe enormous amount of textual data electronicallyavailable today, web-scale n-gram data in particular,in a simple yet highly effective approach to com-pose image descriptions in natural language.
Auto-matic generation of image descriptions differs fromautomatic image tagging (e.g., Leong et al (2010))in that we aim to generate complex phrases or sen-tences describing images rather than predicting in-dividual words.
These natural language descriptionscan be useful for a variety of applications, includ-ing image retrieval, automatic video surveillance,and providing image interpretations for visually im-paired people.Our work contrasts to most previous approachesin four key aspects: first, we compose fresh sen-tences from scratch, instead of retrieving (Farhadi etal.
(2010)), or summarizing existing text fragmentsassociated with an image (e.g., Aker and Gaizauskas(2010), Feng and Lapata (2010a)).
Second, we aimto generate textual descriptions that are truthful tothe specific content of the image, whereas related(but subtly different) work in automatic caption gen-eration creates news-worthy text (Feng and Lapata(2010a)) or encyclopedic text (Aker and Gaizauskas(2010)) that is contextually relevant to the image, butnot closely pertinent to the specific content of theimage.
Third, we aim to build a general image de-scription method as compared to work that requiresdomain specific hand-written grammar rules (Yao etal.
(2010)).
Last, we allow for some creativity inthe generation process which produces more human-like descriptions than a closely related, very recentapproach that drives annotation more directly fromcomputer vision inputs (Kulkarni et al, 2011).In this work, we propose a novel surface realiza-tion technique based on web-scale n-gram data.
Ourapproach consists of two steps: (n-gram) phrase se-lection and (n-gram) phrase fusion.
The first step?
phrase selection ?
collects candidate phrases thatmay be potentially useful for generating the descrip-tion of a given image.
This step naturally accom-modates uncertainty in image recognition inputs as220Hairy goat under a treeFluffy posturing sheep under a tree<furry;gray;brown,sheep>,by;near,<rusty;gray;green,tree>furrygraybrownrustygraygreenbynearFigure 1: The big picture of our task to automaticallygenerate image description.well as synonymous words and word re-ordering toimprove fluency.
The second step ?
phrase fusion?
finds the optimal compatible set of phrases us-ing dynamic programming to compose a new (andmore complex) phrase that describes the image.
Wecompare the performance of our proposed approachto three baselines based on conventional techniques:language models, parsers, and templates.Despite its simplicity, our approach is highly ef-fective for composing image descriptions: it gen-erates mostly appealing and presentable language,while permitting creative writing at times (see Fig-ure 5 for example results).
We conclude from ourexploration that (1) it is viable to generate simpletextual descriptions that are germane to the specificimage content, and that (2) world knowledge implic-itly encoded in natural language (e.g., web-scale n-gram data) can help enhance image content recogni-tion.2 Image RecognitionFigure 1 depicts our system flow: a) an image is in-put into our system, b) image recognition techniquesare used to extract visual content information, c) vi-sual content is encoded as a set of triples, d) naturallanguage descriptions are generated.In this section, we briefly describe the imagerecognition system that extracts visual informationand encodes it as a set of triples.
For a given image,the image recognizer extracts objects, attributes andspatial relationships among objects as follows:1.
Objects: including things (e.g., bird, bus, car)and stuff (e.g., grass, water, sky, road) are de-tected.2.
Visual attributes (e.g., feathered, black) are pre-dicted for each object.3.
Spatial relationships (e.g., on, near, under) be-tween objects are estimated.In particular, object detectors are trained using stateof the art mixtures of multi-scale deformable partsmodels (Felzenszwalb et al, 2010).
Our set ofobjects encompasses the 20 PASCAL 2010 objectchallenge 1 categories as well as 4 additional cate-gories for flower, laptop, tiger, and window trainedon images with associated bounding boxes fromImagenet (Deng et al, 2009).
Stuff detectors aretrained to detect regions corresponding to non-partbased object categories (sky, road, building, tree,water, and grass) using linear SVMs trained onthe low level region features of (Farhadi et al,2009).
These are also trained on images with la-beled bounding boxes from ImageNet and evaluatedat test time on a coarsely sampled grid of overlap-ping square regions over whole images.
Pixels inany region with a classification probability above afixed threshold are treated as detections.We select visual attribute characteristics that arerelevant to our object and stuff categories.
Our at-tribute terms include 21 visual modifiers ?
adjec-tives ?
related to color (e.g.
blue, gray), texture(e.g.
striped, furry), material (e.g.
wooden, feath-ered), general appearance (e.g.
rusty, dirty, shiny),and shape (e.g.
rectangular) characteristics.
The at-tribute classifiers are trained on the low level fea-tures of (Farhadi et al, 2009) using RBF kernelSVMs.
Preposition functions encoding spatial rela-tionships between objects are hand designed to eval-uate the spatial relationships between pairs of re-gions in an image and provide a score for 16 prepo-sitions (e.g., above, under, against, in etc).1http://pascallin.ecs.soton.ac.uk/challenges/VOC/voc2010/221From these three types of visual output, we con-struct a meaning representation of an image as aset of triples (one triple for every pair of detectedobjects).
Each triple encodes a spatial relation be-tween two objects in the following format: <<adj1,obj1>, prep, <adj2, obj2>>.
The generation pro-cedure is elaborated in the following two sections.3 Baseline Approaches to SurfaceRealizationThis section explores three baseline surface realiza-tion approaches: language models (?3.1), random-ized local search (?3.2), and template-based (?3.3).Our best approach, phrase fusion using web-scale n-grams follows in ?4.3.1 Language Model Based ApproachFor each triple, as described in ?2, we construct asentence.
For instance, given the triple <<white,cloud>, in, <blue, sky>>, we might generate?There is a white cloud in the blue sky?.We begin with a simple decoding scheme basedon language models.
Let t be a triple, and let V tbe the set of words in t. We perform surface real-ization by adding function words in-between wordsin V t. As a concrete example, suppose we want todetermine whether to insert a function word x be-tween a pair of words ?
?
V t and ?
?
V t. Then,we need to compare the length-normalized probabil-ity p?(?x?)
with p?(??
), where p?
takes the n?th rootof the probability p for n-word sequences.
We in-sert the new function word x if p?(?x?)
?
p?(??
)using the n-gram models, where the probability ofany given sequence w1, ..., wm is approximated byp(w1, ..., wm) =m?i=1p(wi|wi?
(n?1), ..., wi?1)Note that if we wish to reorder words in V t based onn-gram based language models, then the decodingproblem becomes an instance of asymmetric trav-eler?s salesman problem (NP-hard).
For brevity, weretain the original order of words in the given triple.We later lift this restriction using the web-scale n-gram based phrase fusion method introduced in ?4.3.2 Randomized Local Search ApproachA much needed extension to the language modelbased surface realization is incorporating parsers toBegin Loop (until T iterations or convergence)Choose a position i to revise at randomChoose an edit operation at randomIf the edit yields a better score by LM and PCFGCommit the editEnd LoopTable 1: Pseudo code for a randomized local search ap-proach.
A possible edit operation includes insertion,deletion, and replacement.
The score of the current sen-tence is determined by the multiplication LM-based prob-ability and PCFG-based probability.enforce long distance regularities for more gram-matically correct generation.
However, optimiz-ing both language-model-based probabilities andparser-based probabilities is intractable.
Therefore,we explore a randomized local search approach thatmakes greedy revisions using both language modelsand parsers.
Randomized local search has been suc-cessfully applied to intractable optimization prob-lems in AI (e.g., Chisholm and Tadepalli (2002)) andNLP (e.g., White and Cardie (2002)).Table 1 shows the skeleton of the algorithm in ourstudy.
Iterating through a loop, it chooses an editlocation and an edit operation (insert, delete, or re-place) at random.
If the edit yields a better score,then we commit the edit, otherwise we jump to thenext iteration of the loop.
We define the score asscore(X) = p?LM (X)p?PCFG(X)where X is a given sentence (image description),p?LM (X) is the length normalized probability of Xbased on the language model, and p?PCFG(X) is thelength normalized probability of X based on theprobabilistic context free grammar (PCFG) model.The loop is repeated until convergence or a fixednumber of iterations is reached.
Note that this ap-proach can be extended to simulated annealing to al-low temporary downward steps to escape from localmaxima.
We use the PCFG implementation of Kleinand Manning (2003).3.3 Template Based ApproachThe third approach is a template-based approachwith linguistic constraints, a technique that has of-ten been used for various practical applications suchas summarization (Zhou and Hovy, 2004) and dia-222blue, bike  [2669]  blue, bicycle  [1365]  bike, blue  [1184]  blue, cycle  [324]  cycle, of, the, blue  [172]  cycle, blue  [158]  bicycle, blue  [154]  bike, in, blue  [98]  cycle, of, blue  [64]  bike, with, blue  [43]< < blue , bicycle >, near, < shiny , person > >bright, boy  [8092]  bright, child  [7840]  bright, girl  [6191]  bright, kid  [5873]  bright, person  [5461 ]  bright, man  [4936]  bright, woman  [2726]  bright, women  [1684]  lady, bright  [1360]  bright, men  [1050]person, operating, a, bicycle  [3409]  man, on, a, bicycle  [2842]  cycle, of, child  [2507]  bike, for, men  [2485]  person, riding, a, bicycle  [2118]  cycle, in, women  [1853]  bike, for, women  [1442]  boy, on, a, bicycle  [1378]  cycle, of, women  [1288]  man, on, a, bike  [1283]bright person operating a blue bicycle [2541 158 938 5] bright man on a blue bicycle [1914 83 72 88 0]  bright man on a blue bike [1690 24 78 07 2]  bright person riding a blue bicycle [157 881 332 70]  bright boy on a blue bicycle [1522 08 09 24 0]  blue bike for bright men [6964 08 82 50 ]  blue bike for bright women [648120 743 2]  blue cycle of bright child [6368 18 11 20 ]  blue cycle in bright women [1011 02 64 48 ]Figure 2: Illustration of phrase fusion composition al-gorithm using web-scale n-grams.
Numbers in squarebrackets are n-gram frequencies.logue systems (Channarukul et al, 2003).
Becausethe meaning representation produced by the imagerecognition system has a fixed pattern of <<adj1,obj1>, prep, <adj2, obj2>>, it can be templated as?There is a [adj1] [obj1] [prep] the [adj2] [obj2].
?We also include templates that encode basic dis-course constraints.
For instance, the template thatgenerated the first sentences in Figure 3 and 4 is:[PREFIX] [#(x1)] [x1], [#(x2)] [x2], ... and [#(xk)][xk], where xi is the name of an object (e.g.
?cow?
),#(xi) is the number of instances of xi (e.g.
?one?
),and PREFIX ?
{?This picture shows?, ?This is a pic-ture of?, etc}.Although this approach can produce good lookingsentences in a limited domain, there are many limita-tions.
First, a template-based approach does not al-low creative writing and produces somewhat stiltedprose.
In particular, it cannot add interesting newwords, or replace existing content words with betterones.
In addition, such an approach does not allowany reordering of words which might be necessary tocreate a fluent sentence.
Finally, hand-written rulesare domain-specific, and do not generalize well tonew domains.4 Surface Realization by Phrase Fusionusing Web-scale N-gramWe now introduce an entirely different approachthat addresses the limitations of the conventional ap-proaches discussed in ?3.
This approach is basedon web-scale n-gram, also known as Google Web1T data, which provides the frequency count of eachpossible n-gram sequence for 1 ?
n ?
5.4.1 [Step I] ?
Candidate Phrase SelectionWe first define three different sets of phrases for eachgiven triple <<adj1, obj1>, prep, <adj2, obj2>>:?
O1 = {(x, f) | x is an n-gram phrase describ-ing the first object using the words adj1 andobj1, and f is the frequency of x}?
O2 = {(x, f) | x is an n-gram phrase describ-ing the second object using the words adj2 andobj2, and f is the frequency of x}?
R = {(x, f) | x is an n-gram describing the re-lation between the two objects using the wordsobj1 and obj2, and f is the frequency of x}We find n-gram phrases for O1, O2, andR from theGoogle Web 1T data.
The search patterns for O1 is:?
[adj1] [?
]n?2 [obj1]?
[obj1] [?
]n?2 [adj1]where [?]
is a wildcard word, and [?
]n?2 denotesa sequence of n-2 number of wildcard words in a n-gram sequence.
For wildcards, we only allow a lim-ited set of function words, and verbs in the gerundform2 for reasons that will become clearer in thenext step ?
phrase fusion in ?4.2.Note that it is the second pattern that allowsinteresting re-ordering of words in the final sen-tence generation.
For instance, suppose adj1=green,obj1=person.
Then it is more natural to generatea phrase using the reverse pattern such as, ?personin green?
or ?person wearing green?
than simplyconcatenating adj1 and obj1 to generate ?green per-son?.
Similarly, given obj1=bicycle and obj2=man,generating a phrase using the reverse pattern, e.g.,?man with a bicycle?
would be more natural than?bicycle with a man?.
Our hypothesis is that suchordering preference is implicitly encoded in theweb-scale n-grams via frequencies.It is worthwhile to note that our pattern matchingis case sensitive, and we only allow patterns that are2We treat words with suffix ?ing?
as gerund for simplicity.223Phrase Fusion Black bull eating fluffy grass Bright apartment in the blue sky Shaggy grass looking at the blue skyLocal Search the black cow or even by the furry grass.
the shiny building up by the same blue sky.
the furry grass be below over one  blue sky.Template   This picture shows one cow, one building, one grass and one sky.
The black cow is by the shiny building, and by the furry grass, and by the blue sky.
The shiny building is by the furry grass, and by the blue sky.
The furry grass is below the blue sky.Simple decoding the black cow or by the furry grass.
the shiny building up by the blue sky.
the furry grass be below one  blue sky.Image Recognition Output as Tripes: <black;yellow;rusty,cow>,by;near;by,<furry;green;brown,grass>  <shiny;colorful;yellow,building>,by;near;by,<blue;clear;colorful,sky>  <furry;green;brown,grass>,below;beneath;by,<blue;clear;colorful,sky>Figure 3: Comparison of image descriptionsall lower-case.
From our pilot study, we found thatn-grams with upper case characters are likely fromnamed entities, which distort the n-gram frequencydistribution that we rely on during the phrase fusionphase.
To further reduce noise, we also discard anyn-gram that contains a character that is not an alpha-bet.Accommodating Uncertainty We extend candi-date phrase selection in order to cope with uncer-tainty from the image recognition.
In particular,for each object detection obji, we include its top 3predicted modifiers adji1, adji2, adji3 determinedby the attribute classifiers (see ?2) to expand theset O1 and O2 accordingly.
For instance, givenadji =(shiny or white) and obji = sheep, we canconsider both <shiny,sheep> and <white,sheep>pairs to predict more compatible pairs of words.Accommodating Synonyms Additionally, weaugment each modifier adji and each object nameobji with synonyms to further expand our setsO1, O2, and R. These expanded sets of phrasesenable resulting generations that are more fluentand creative.4.2 [Step II] ?
Phrase FusionGiven the expanded sets of phrases O1, O2, and Rdescribed above, we perform phrase fusion to gen-erate simple image description.
In this step, we findthe best combination of three phrases, (x?1, f?1) ?O1, (x?2, f?2) ?
O2, and (x?R, f?R) ?
R as follows:(x?1, x?2, x?R) = argmaxx1,x2,xRscore(x1, x2, xR) (1)score(x1, x2, xR) = ?(x1)?
?(x2)?
?
(xR) (2)s.t.
x?1 and x?R are compatible& x?2 and x?R are compatibleTwo phrases x?i and x?R are compatible if they sharethe same object noun obji.
We define the phrase-level score function ?(?)
as ?
(xi) = fi using theGoogle n-gram frequencies.
The equation (2) can bemaximized using dynamic programming, by align-ing the decision sequence as x?1 ?
x?R ?
x?2.Once the best combination ?
(x?1, x?2, x?R) is de-termined, we fuse the phrases by replacing the wordobj1 in the phrase x?R with the corresponding phrasex?1.
Similarly, we replace the word obj2 in the phrasex?R with the other corresponding phrase x?2.
Becausethe wildcard words ?
[?]
in ?4.1 allow only a lim-ited set of function words and gerund, the resultingphrase is highly likely to be grammatically correct.Computational Efficiency One advantage of ourphrase fusion method is its efficiency.
If we wereto attempt to re-order words with language mod-els in a naive way, we would need to consider allpossible permutations of words ?
an NP-hard prob-lem (?3.1).
However, our phrase fusion method isclever in that it probes reordering only on selectedpairs of words, where reordering is likely to be use-ful.
In other words, our approach naturally ignoresmost word pairs that do not require reordering andhas a time complexity of only O(K2n), where K isthe maximum number of candidate phrases of anyphrase type, and n is the number of phrase types ineach sentence.
K can be kept as a small constant byselecting K-best candidate phrases of each phrasetype.
We set K = 10 in this paper.5 Experimental ResultsTo construct the training corpus for language mod-els, we crawled Wikipedia pages that describe ourobject set.
For evaluation, we use the UIUC PAS-CAL sentence dataset3 which contains upto fivehuman-generated sentences that describing 1000 im-ages.
Note that all of the approaches presented in3http://vision.cs.uiuc.edu/pascal-sentences/224Phrase fusion  shiny motorcycle nearby shiny motorcycle.
black women operating a shiny motorcycle.
bright boy on a shiny motorcycle.
girl showing pink on a shiny motorcycle.Local search the shiny motorbike or against the shiny motorbike.
the shiny motorbike or by the black person.
the shiny motorbike or by the shiny person.
the shiny motorbike or by the pink person.Simple Decoding  the shiny motorbike or against the shiny motorbike.
the shiny motorbike or by the black person.
the shinny motorbike or by the shiny boy.
the shiny motorbike or by the pink person.Template  This is a picture of two motorbikes, three persons, one building and one tree.
The first shiny motorbike is against the second shiny motorbike, and by the first black person.
The second shiny motorbike is by the first black person, and by the second shiny person, and by the third pink person.Image Recognition Output as Triples: < < shiny; black; rusty , motorbike >, against; by; in , < shiny; black; rusty , motorbike > > < < shiny; black; rusty , motorbike >, by; near; by , < black; shiny; rusty , person > > < < shiny; black; rusty , motorbike >, by; near; by , < pink; rusty; striped , person > >Figure 4: Comparison of image descriptionsSection 3 and 4 attempt to insert function words forsurface realization.
In this work, we limit the choiceof function words to only those words that are likelyto be necessary in the final output.4 For instance, wedisallow function words such as ?who?
or ?or?.Before presenting evaluation results, we presentsome samples of image descriptions generated by 4different approaches in Figure 3 and 4.
Notice thatonly the PHRASE FUSION approach is able to in-clude interesting and adequate verbs, such as ?eat-ing?
or ?looking?
in Figure 3, and ?operating?
inFigure 4.
Note that the choice of these action verbsis based only on the co-occurrence statistics encodedin n-grams, without relying on the vision compo-nent that specializes in action recognition.
These ex-amples therefore demonstrate that world knowledgeimplicitly encoded in natural language can help en-hance image content recognition.Automatic Evaluation: BLEU (Papineni et al,2002) is a widely used metric for automatic eval-uation of machine translation that measures the n-gram precision of machine generated sentences withrespect to human generated sentences.
Because ourtask can be viewed as machine translation from im-ages to text, BLEU (Papineni et al, 2002) may seem4This limitation does not apply to TEMPLATE.w/o w/ synLANGUAGE MODEL 0.094 0.106TEMPLATE 0.087 0.096LOCAL SEARCH 0.100 0.111PHRASE FUSION (any best) 0.149 0.153PHRASE FUSION (best w/ gerund) 0.146 0.149Human 0.500 0.510Table 2: Automatic Evaluation: BLEU measured at 1Creativ.
Fluency Relevan.LANGUAGE MODEL 2.12 1.96 2.09TEMPLATE 2.04 1.7 1.96LOCAL SEARCH 2.21 1.96 2.04PHRASE FUSION 1.86 1.97 2.11Table 3: Human Evaluation: the scores range over 1 to 3,where 1 is very good, 2 is ok, 3 is bad.like a reasonable choice.
However, there is largerinherent variability in generating sentences from im-ages than translating a sentence from one languageto another.
In fact two people viewing the same pic-ture may produce quite different descriptions.
Thismeans BLEU could penalize many correctly gener-ated sentences, and be poorly correlated with humanjudgment of quality.
Nevertheless we report BLEUscores in absence of any other automatic evaluationmethod that serves our needs perfectly.The results are shown in Table 2 ?
first columnshows BLEU score considering exact matches, sec-ond column shows BLEU with full credit for syn-onyms.
To give a sense of upper bound and to seesome limitations of the BLEU score, we also com-pute the BLEU score between human-generated sen-tences by computing the BLEU score of the first hu-man sentence with respect to the others.There is one important factor to consider when in-terpreting Table 2.
The four approaches exploredin this paper are purposefully prolific writers in thatthey generate many more sentences than the num-ber of sentences in the image descriptions written byhumans (available in the UIUC PASCAL dataset).In this work, we do not perform sentence selectionto reduce the number of sentences in the final out-put.
Rather, we focus on the quality of each gener-ated sentence.
The consequence of producing many225Way rusty the golden cowGolden cow in the golden skyTree snowing black trainBlack train under the tree Rusty girl sitting at a white table White table in the clear skyRusty girl living in the clear skyBlue path up in the clear skyBlue path to colored fishing boatBlue path up in the clearmorning skyrusty chair for rusty dog.rusty dog under the rusty chair.rusty dog sitting in a rusty chair.Gray cat from a burning graybuildingGray building with a gray cat.Gray building in the white skyShaggy dog knotting hairy menPink flowering plant the hairy dogPink dog training shaggy dogShaggy dog relaxing on a colored sofablack women hangingfrom a black tree.colored man in the tree.1 2 3 456 78Figure 5: Sample image descriptions using PHRASE FUSION: some of the unexpected or poetic descriptions arehighlighted in boldface, and some of the interesting incorrect descriptions are underlined.more sentences in our output is overall lower BLEUscores, because BLEU precision penalizes spuriousrepetitions of the same word, which necessarily oc-curs when generating more sentences.
This is not anissue for comparing different approaches however,as we generate the same number of sentences foreach method.From Table 2, we find that our final approach ?PHRASE FUSION based on web-scale n-grams per-forms the best.
Notice that there are two differentevaluations for PHRASE FUSION: the first one isevaluated for the best combination of phrases (Equa-tion (1)), while the second one is evaluated for thebest combination of phrases that contained at leastone gerund.Human Evaluation: As mentioned earlier, BLEUscore has some drawbacks including obliviousnessto correctness of grammar and inability to evaluatethe creativity of a composition.
To directly quantifythese aspects that could not be addressed by BLEU,we perform human judgments on 120 instances forthe four proposed methods.
Evaluators do not haveany computer vision or natural language generationbackground.We consider the following three aspects to eval-uate the our image descriptions: creativity, fluency,and relevance.
For simplicity, human evaluators as-sign one set of scores for each aspect per image.
Thescores range from 1 to 3, where 1 is very good, 2 isok, and 3 is bad.5 The definition and guideline foreach aspect is:[Creativity] How creative is the generated sen-tence?1 There is creativity either based on unexpectedwords (in particular, verbs), or describingthings in a poetic way.2 There is minor creativity based on re-orderingwords that appeared in the triple3 None.
Looks like a robot talking.
[Fluency] How grammatically correct is the gener-ated sentence?1 Mostly perfect English phrase or sentence.2 There are some errors, but mostly comprehen-sible.3 Terrible.
[Relevance] How relevant is the generated descrip-tion to the given image?1 Very relevant.2 Reasonably relevant.3 Totally off.5In our pilot study, human annotations on 160 instancesgiven by two evaluators were identical on 61% of the instances,and close (difference ?
1) on 92%.226Table 3 shows the human evaluation results.
Interms of creativity, PHRASE FUSION achieves thebest score as expected.
In terms of fluency andrelevance however, TEMPLATE achieves the bestscores, while PHRASE FUSION performs the secondbest.
Remember that TEMPLATE is based on hand-engineered rules with discourse constraints, whichseems to appeal to evaluators more.
It would bestraightforward to combine PHRASE FUSION withTEMPLATE to improve the output of PHRASE FU-SION with hand-engineered rules.
However, ourgoal in this paper is to investigate statistically moti-vated approaches for generating image descriptionsthat can address inherent limitations of hand-writtenrules discussed in ?3.3.Notice that the relevance score of TEMPLATE isbetter than that of LANGUAGE MODEL, even thoughboth approaches generate descriptions that consist ofan almost identical set of words.
This is presum-ably because the output from LANGUAGE MODELcontains grammatically incorrect sentences that arenot comprehendable enough to the evaluators.
Therelevance score of PHRASE FUSION is also slightlyworse than that of TEMPLATE, presumably becausePHRASE FUSION often generates poetic or creativeexpressions, as shown in Figure 5, which can be con-sidered a deviation from the image content.Error Analysis There are different sources of er-rors.
Some errors are due to mistakes in the origi-nal visual recognition input.
For example, in the 3rdimage in Figure 5, the color of sky is predicted tobe ?golden?.
In the 4th image, the wall behind thetable is recognized as ?sky?, and in the 6th image,the parrots are recognized as ?person?.Other errors are from surface realization.
For in-stance, in the 8th image, PHRASE FUSION selectsthe preposition ?under?, presumably because dogsare typically under the chair rather than on the chairaccording to Google n-gram statistics.
In the 5thimage, an unexpected word ?burning?
is selected tomake the resulting output idiosyncratic.
Word sensedisambiguation sometimes causes a problem in sur-face realization as well.
In the 3rd image, the word?way?
is chosen to represent ?path?
or ?street?
bythe image recognizer.
However, a different sense ofway ?
?very?
?
is being used in the final output.6 Related WorkThere has been relatively limited work on automat-ically generating natural language image descrip-tions.
Most work related to our study is discussedin ?1, hence we highlight only those that are clos-est to our work here.
Yao et al (2010) present acomprehensive system that generates image descrip-tions using Head-driven phrase structure (HPSG)grammar, which requires carefully written domain-specific lexicalized grammar rules, and also de-mands a very specific and complex meaning rep-resentation scheme from the image processing.
Incontrast, our approach handles images in the open-domain more naturally using much simpler tech-niques.We use similar vision based inputs ?
object detec-tors, modifier classifiers, and prepositional functions?
to some very recent work on generating simple de-scriptions for images (Kulkarni et al, 2011), but fo-cus on improving the sentence generation method-ology and produce descriptions that are more trueto human generated descriptions.
Note that theBLEU scores reported in their work of Kulkarni etal.
(2011) are not directly comparable to ours, as thescale of the scores differs depending on the numberof sentences generated per image.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a novel surface realiza-tion technique based on web-scale n-gram data toautomatically generate image description.
Despiteits simplicity, our method is highly effective in gen-erating mostly appealing and presentable language,while permitting creative writing at times.
We con-clude from our study that it is viable to generatesimple textual descriptions that are germane to thespecific image content while also sometimes pro-ducing almost poetic natural language.
Furthermore,we demonstrate that world knowledge implicitly en-coded in natural language can help enhance imagecontent recognition.AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported in part by NSF Faculty EarlyCareer Development (CAREER) Award #1054133.227ReferencesA.
Aker and R. Gaizauskas.
2010.
Generating imagedescriptions using dependency relational patterns.
InACL.K.
Barnard, P. Duygulu, N. de Freitas, D. Forsyth,D.
Blei, and M. Jordan.
2003.
Matching words andpictures.
JMLR, 3:1107?1135.Songsak Channarukul, Susan W. McRoy, and Syed S.Ali.
2003.
Doghed: a template-based generator formultimodal dialog systems targeting heterogeneousdevices.
In NAACL.Michael Chisholm and Prasad Tadepalli.
2002.
Learningdecision rules by randomized iterative local search.
InICML, pages 75?82.J.
Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J.
Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei.
2009.
ImageNet: A Large-Scale Hierarchical Im-age Database.
In CVPR.A.
Farhadi, I. Endres, D. Hoiem, and D. A. Forsyth.2009.
Describing objects by their attributes.
In CVPR.A.
Farhadi, M Hejrati, A. Sadeghi, P. Young,C.
Rashtchian, J. Hockenmaier, and D. A. Forsyth.2010.
Every picture tells a story: generating sentencesfor images.
In ECCV.P.
Felzenszwalb, R. Girshick, D. McAllester, and D. Ra-manan.
2010.
Object detection with discriminativelytrained part based models.
tPAMI, Sept.Y.
Feng and M. Lapata.
2010a.
How many words is apicture worth?
automatic caption generation for newsimages.
In ACL.Yansong Feng and Mirella Lapata.
2010b.
Topic modelsfor image annotation and text illustration.
In HLT.Dan Klein and Christopher D. Manning.
2003.
Accurateunlexicalized parsing.
In Proceedings of the 41st An-nual Meeting on Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 423?430.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Girish Kulkarni, Visruth Premraj, Sagnik Dhar, SimingLi, Yejin Choi, Alexander C Berg, and Tamara L Berg.2011.
Babytalk: Understanding and generating simpleimage descriptions.
In CVPR.Chee Wee Leong, Rada Mihalcea, and Samer Hassan.2010.
Text mining for automatic image tagging.
InCOLING.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Weijing Zhu.
2002.
Bleu: a method for automatic evalua-tion of machine translation.Katerina Pastra, Horacio Saggion, and Yorick Wilks.2003.
Nlp for indexing and retrieval of captioned pho-tographs.
In EACL.Michael White and Claire Cardie.
2002.
Selecting sen-tences for multidocument summaries using random-ized local search.
In ACL Workshop on AutomaticSummarization.B.Z.
Yao, Xiong Yang, Liang Lin, Mun Wai Lee, andSong-Chun Zhu.
2010.
I2t: Image parsing to text de-scription.
Proc.
IEEE, 98(8).Liang Zhou and Eduard Hovy.
2004.
Template-filtered headline summarization.
In Text Summariza-tion Branches Out: Pr ACL-04 Wkshp, July.228
