Proceedings of EMNLP 2011, Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 22?29,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 27?31, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsPaddyWaC: A Minimally-Supervised Web-Corpus of Hiberno-EnglishBrian MurphyCentre for Mind/Brain Sciences,University of Trento38068 Rovereto (TN), Italybrian.murphy@unitn.itEgon StemleCentre for Mind/Brain Sciences,University of Trento38068 Rovereto (TN), Italyegon.stemle@unitn.itAbstractSmall, manually assembled corpora may be avail-able for less dominant languages and dialects,but producing web-scale resources remains a chal-lenge.
Even when considerable quantities of textare present on the web, finding this text, and distin-guishing it from related languages in the same regioncan be difficult.
For example less dominant vari-ants of English (e.g.
New Zealander, Singaporean,Canadian, Irish, South African) may be found undertheir respective national domains, but will be par-tially mixed with Englishes of the British and USvarieties, perhaps through syndication of journalism,or the local reuse of text by multinational compa-nies.
Less formal dialectal usage may be scatteredmore widely over the internet through mechanismssuch as wiki or blog authoring.
Here we automati-cally construct a corpus of Hiberno-English (Englishas spoken in Ireland) using a variety of methods: fil-tering by national domain, filtering by orthographicconventions, and bootstrapping from a set of Ireland-specific terms (slang, place names, organisations).We evaluate the national specificity of the resultingcorpora by measuring the incidence of topical terms,and several grammatical constructions that are par-ticular to Hiberno-English.
The results show thatdomain filtering is very effective for isolating textthat is topic-specific, and orthographic classificationcan exclude some non-Irish texts, but that selectedseeds are necessary to extract considerable quanti-ties of more informal, dialectal text.1 IntroductionFor less dominant language variants, corpora are usu-ally painstakingly constructed by hand.
This results inhigh quality collections of text, classified and balancedby genre, register and modality.
But the process is time-consuming and expensive, and results in relatively smallresources.
For example the International Corpus of En-glish (ICE) project (Greenbaum, 1996) has already re-sulted in the publication of corpora covering ten dialectsof English, following a common schema, but the indi-vidual corpora are limited to approximately one millionwords.An alternative is to use automatic methods to harvestcorpora from the Web.
Identification of major languagesis a robust technology, and where the regional boundariesof a language or dialect correspond closely to a nationaltop-level internet domain, very large collections (of sev-eral billion words) can now can be produced easily, withclose to no manual intervention (Baroni et al, 2009).These methods can also deal with some issues of textquality found on the web, successfully extracting coher-ent pieces of running text from web pages (i.e.
discard-ing menu text, generic headings, copyright and other le-gal notices), reducing textual duplication, and identifyingspam, portal pages and other files that do not contain lin-guistically interesting text.Corpora of minor languages that lack their own do-main, but that have clear orthographic differences frommore dominant neighbouring languages can be collectedautomatically by using a small set of seed documents,from which language-specific search terms can be ex-tracted (Scannell, 2007).
These methods, combined withautomated language identification methods, can quicklyproduce large, clean collections with close to no manualintervention.However for language variants that do not have theirown domain (e.g.
Scots, Bavarian), it is less clearthat such web corpora can be automatically constructed.Smaller or politically less dominant countries that dohave their own domain (e.g.
Belgium, New Zealand),may also find the language of their ?national?
webstrongly influenced by other language varieties, for ex-ample through syndication of journalistic articles, or ma-terials published by foreign companies.In this paper we use minimally supervised methods(Baroni and Bernardini, 2004; Baroni et al, 2009) toquickly and cheaply build corpora of Hiberno-English(English as spoken in Ireland), which are many timeslarger than ICE-Ireland, the largest published collection22currently available (Kallen and Kirk, 2007).
We investi-gate several combinations of strategies (based on domainnames, and on regional variations in vocabulary and or-thography) to distinguish text written in this minor lan-guage variant from related dominant variants (US and UKEnglish).
We validate the specificity of the resulting cor-pora by measuring the incidence of Ireland-specific lan-guage, both topically (the frequency with which Irish re-gions and organisations are mentioned), and structurally,by the presence of grammatical constructions that are par-ticular to Hiberno-English.
We also compare our cor-pus to another web-corpus of Hiberno-English that is indevelopment (Cr?bad?n, Scannell, personal communica-tion) that relies on domain filtering of crawled web-pages.The results show that filtering by national domain isvery effective in identifying text that deals with Irish top-ics, but that the grammar of the resulting text is largelystandard.
Using a set of seed terms tailored to the lan-guage variant (Irish slang, names of Ireland-based organ-isations, loanwords from Irish Gaelic), yields text whichis much more particular to Hiberno-English usage.
At thesame time, such tailored seed terms increase the dangerof finding ?non-authentic?
uses of Irishisms (sometimestermed paddywhackery or oirish), either in fictional di-alogues, or in documents discussing distinctive patternsin Irish English.
The application of a British/Americanspelling filter has less clear effects, increasing topicalincidence slightly, while reducing structural incidencessomewhat.The paper proceeds as follows: in the next section weintroduce Hiberno-English, situating it relative to othervariants of English, and concentrating on the characteris-tic features that will be used as metrics of ?Irishness?
oftext retrieved from the Web.
Next we describe the processby which several candidate corpora of Hiberno-Englishwere constructed (section 3), and the methods we usedto quantify incidence of distinctive usage (section 4).
Inthe final two sections we compare the incidence of thesemarkers with those found in corpora of other variantsof English (UK, US), Scannell?s IE-domain filtered cor-pus, and a hand-crafted corpus of Hiberno-English (ICE-Ireland), and reflect on the wider applicability of thesemethods to variants of other languages and orthographies.2 Structures and Lexicon ofHiberno-EnglishHiberno-English differs in a range of ways from othervarieties of English.
In broad terms it can be groupedwith British English, in that its lexicon, grammar and or-thographic conventions are more similar to that of GreatBritain, than to that of North America.
For example withlexical variants such as bumper/fender, rubbish bin/trashcan, lift/elevator and zed/zee it shares the former Britishusage rather than the latter American usage, though thereare exceptions (in Irish usage the North Americans termtruck is replacing the British lorry).
Similarly in syntaxit tends to follow British conventions, for instance He?sfamiliar with X rather than X is familiar to him, write tome rather than write me and the acceptability of singu-lar verbal marking with group subjects, as in the team arepleased ?
though there are counterexamples again, in thatIrish English tends to follow American dialects in dis-pensing with the shall/will distinction.
Most obviously,Irish writing uses British spellings rather than Americanspellings.However, there are still dialectal differences betweenIrish and British English.
Beyond the usual regional dif-ferences that one might find between the words used indifferent parts of England, the English spoken in Irelandis particularly influenced by the Irish language (Gaelic,Gaeilge) (Kirk and Kallen, 2007).
While English is thefirst language of the overwhelming majority of residentsof Ireland (estimates of Irish mother-tongue speakers areof the order of 50,000, or about 1% of the population),Irish retains status as the first official language of the Re-public of Ireland, maintained as a core subject at all levelsof school education, and through state-maintained radioand television channels.
As recently as the early 19thcentury, Irish was the majority language, and so manytraces of it remain in modern Hiberno-English, in theform of Irish loan-words (e.g.
sl?n ?goodbye?, gaelscoil?Irish (speaking) school?
), Anglicizations (e.g.
?gansey?,jumper, from Irish geansa?
), and composites (e.g.
?jack-een?, a pejorative term for Dubliners, combining the Irishdiminutive -?n with the English ?Jack?
).In this paper we take a series of characteristic termsand structures from Hiberno-English, mostly inspired by(Kirk and Kallen, 2007), and use them as markers of theIrishness of the text we assemble from the web.
Whilethere are many more interesting grammatical differencesbetween Hiberno-English and other variants (e.g.
per-fective use of the simple present: I know that family foryears), we restrict ourselves to those that can be automat-ically identified in a corpus through searching of plaintext, or of shallow syntactic patterns (parts of speech).The first marker we use is to measure the incidence ofa set of terms that are topically related to Ireland: propernames of Ireland-based organisations, and geographicalterms.
The method for assembling this list is described insection 4.The most simple structure that we use as a marker ofHiberno-English is the contraction I amn?t (I?m not or Iain?t in other varieties).
The next is the ?after?
perfec-tive, which often expresses immediacy, and a negativeoutcome:(1) I?m after losing my wallet?I just lost my wallet?23A further structure that is novel from the point of viewof other variants of English is a particular use of verbsthat take a complement that expresses a question (mostcommonly ask, wonder, see and know), without the useof a complementizer such as if or whether and with aninversion of subject-verb order (typical of interrogatives):(2) I wonder is he coming?
?I wonder if/whether he is coming?Finally we consider the expanded usage of reflexive pro-nouns in Hiberno-English, where they may be used foremphasis, in any argument position, and without be-ing anaphorically bound, as is usually required.
Herewe limit ourselves to subject position reflexives, whichcan be identified from word order patterns, without anydeeper semantic analysis:(3) himself is in big trouble?he is in big trouble?With the exception of the amn?t contraction, all of thesephenomena are demonstrated by (Kirk and Kallen, 2007)to be common in the ICE-Ireland corpus, though some-what less common in Northern Irish portion of that col-lection, and to be very rare or completely absent inthe ICE-GB corpus of the English of Britain (Nelsonet al, 2002).
Significantly, these constructions are foundpredominantly in the spoken language portion of theICE-Ireland corpus, suggesting that speakers are perhapsaware that they are not ?standard?
English, and so notconsidered appropriate in the written register.3 Constructing a Web-Corpus ofHiberno-EnglishWithin the WaCky initiative (Web-as-Corpus kool ynitia-tive) (Baroni and Bernardini, 2006) a community of lin-guists and information technology specialists developeda set of tools to selectively crawl sections of the Web, andthen process, index and search the resulting data.
Contri-butions like BootCaT (Baroni and Bernardini, 2004), aniterative procedure to bootstrap specialised corpora andterms from the Web, have been successfully used in arange of projects: first in the construction of the WaCkycorpora, a collection of very large (>1 billion words) cor-pora of English (ukWaC), German (deWaC) and Italian(itWaC); and subsequently by other groups, e.g.
noWaCand jpWaC (Baroni et al, 2009; Guevara, 2010; Erjavecet al, 2008).Here we use BootCaT to build seven prototype corporaof Hiberno-English, and evaluate the dialect-specificityof each by measuring the incidence of proper terms andconstructions that are associated with this language vari-ant.
Additionally, we use ukWaC as the de-facto stan-dard British English Web corpus, and construct a mediumsize web-corpus of the US domain to represent Ameri-can usage.
Each corpus is preprocessed and formatted forthe IMS Open Corpus Workbench (CWB, (Christ, 1994;Web, 2008)), a generic query engine for large text corporathat was developed for applications in computational lex-icography.BootCaT first takes a set of manually assembled seedterms, these (possibly multi-word) terms are randomlycombined, and then are used as search queries with aWeb search engine; the HTML documents of the top re-sults are downloaded and cleaned to extract running textand discard all web-markup.
Preprocessing and format-ting for the CWB consists of tokenising, lemmatising,and part-of-speech tagging the corpus, and then convert-ing the result into CWB?s internal format; we replicatedthe processing stages employed for ukWaC.The construction of the nine corpora differs on threedimensions:Seeds: two seed sets were used namely, an Hiberno-English one (IEs), and the original ukWaC list ofmid-frequency terms (UKs) from the British Na-tional Corpus (Burnard, 1995); the Irish seeds wereused in pairs and triples to attempt to vary the degreeof regional specificity.TLDs: two types of top-level internet domain (TLD) re-strictions were imposed during (or after) the con-struction of the corpora; either no restriction was im-posed (.ALL), or a corpus was filtered by a specificnational TLD (e.g.
.ie).Spelling: two types of spelling filter were imposed;either none, or an ?orthographic convention fac-tor?
(OCF) was calculated to detect American andBritish spellings, and a corpus was filtered accord-ingly (BrEn).The IE seeds contained 81 seed terms, gathered usingone author?s native intuition, and words indicated as be-ing specific to Irish English by the Oxford English Dic-tionary, and from various Web pages about Hiberno-English.
76 single-word and 5 two-word terms were usedfalling into three main categories: Irish place names, re-gional variant terms (mostly slang), and load words fromIrish Gaelic (many being state institutions).
The full list-ing of terms is given here:Place names: Dublin, Galway, Waterford, Drogheda, Antrim, Derry,Kildare, Meath, Donegal, Armagh, Wexford, Wicklow,Louth, Kilkenny, Westmeath, Offaly, Laois, Belfast, Cavan,Sligo, Roscommon, Monaghan, Fermanagh, Carlow, Longford,Leitrim, Navan, Ennis, Tralee, Leinster, Connaught, Munster, Ul-sterRegional variants: banjaxed (wrecked), craic (fun), fecking (variantof fucking), yoke (thing), yer man/one/wan (that man/woman),culchie (country dweller), da (father), footpath (pavement),24gaff (home), gobshite (curse), gurrier (young child), jack-een (Dubliner), jacks (toilet), janey mac (exclamation), jaysus(variant of exclamation ?jesus?
), kip (sleep; hovel), knacker(Traveller, gypsy), knackered (wrecked), langer (penis; id-iot), langers/langered (drunk), scallion (spring onion), skanger(disgusting person), strand (beach, seaside), scuttered (drunk),boreen (small road), gob (mouth; spit), eejit (variant of idiot),lough (lake), fooster (dawdle), barmbrack (traditional Hallow?eencake), shebeen (unlicensed bar), bogman (contry dweller), oldone (old lady), quare (variant queer), gansey (pullover)Loan words: garda, garda?
(police), taoiseach (prime minister), d?il(parliament), Sl?inte (?cheers?
), Gaeltacht (Irish speaking areas),Seanad (senate), T?naiste (deputy prime minister), ceol ((tradi-tional Irish) music), sl?n (?goodbye?
), gr?
(affection, love for),gaelscoil (Irish speaking school)These seed terms were combined into a set of 3000 3-tuple (3T) and a set of 3000 2-tuple (2T) search queries,i.e.
two-word terms were enclosed in inverted commas toform one single term for the search engine.
For 3T this re-sulted in over 80% 3-tuples with 3 single-word terms, andslightly over 17% with 2 single-word terms, and the re-maining percentages for 3-tuples with 1 single-word andno single-word terms; for 2T this resulted in almost 88%2-tuples with 2 single-word terms, almost 12% with only1 single-word terms, and less than 1% with no single-word terms.
The UK seeds were the original ones usedduring the construction of the ukWaC corpus and theywere combined into 3000 3-tuple search queries.No TLD restriction means that the search engine wasnot instructed to return search results within a specificdomain, and hence, documents originate from typicalEnglish-language domains (.com, .ie, .uk, etc.)
but alsofrom .de and potentially any other.
A restriction meantthat the documents could only originate from one TLD.No spelling filter means that nothing was done.
TheOCF indicates the degree to which terms within a docu-ment are predominantly spelled according to one prede-fined word list relative to another.
The number of termintersections with each list is counted and OCF is calcu-lated as the difference between counts over their sum.
Tosimplify matters, we utilised a spell-checker to return thelist of known words from a document, this corresponds tochecking a document for spelling errors and only keepingthe non-erroneous words.
In our case we used an en_GBdictionary, an en_US one, and the two together.
The threelists yield the needed numbers of words only known byone of the two dictionaries, and, hence unknown by theother dictionary, and the ratio in the range of [?1,+1] canbe calculated.The search engine we used for all queries was Yahoo(Yahoo!
Inc., 1995); for all search queries English resultswere requested, that is we relied on the search engine?sbuilt-in language identification algorithm1, and from all1This restriction is very effective at distinguishing non-English fromEnglish content, but returns content from any English variant.search queries the top 10 results were used.
Cleaningof the Web pages (termed boilerplate removal) was ac-complished by BootCaT?s implementation of the BTEmethod (Finn et al, 2001); it strives to extract the mainbody of a Web page, that is the largest contiguous textarea with the least amount of intervening non-text ele-ments (HTML tags), and discards the rest.Several corpora were constructed from the Irish seedsusing 2- or 3-tuple search terms: either without restrict-ing the TLDs; subsequent restriction to the .ie TLD; orsubsequent filtering according to spelling.
Corpora werealso constructed with the search engine instructed to di-rectly return documents from the .us or the .ie TLD, re-spectively, where the latter one was later also filtered ac-cording to spelling.
The ukWaC corpus is restricted tothe .uk TLD.4 Evaluating Variety Specificity of theCorpusTo evaluate the dialectal specificity of the text in each pu-tative corpus of Hiberno-English, we measured the inci-dence of several characteristic terms and structures.
Thesame phenomena were counted in corpora of US and UKEnglish (identified as that found under the .us and .ukTLDs respectively) to establish baseline frequencies.
Allcorpora were HTML-cleaned, lemmatised and part-of-speech tagged using the same methods described above,and searches were made with identical, case-insensitive,queries in the CQP language.First we quantified topical specificity by searchingfor a set of Irish geographical terms (towns, counties,regions), and Ireland-based organisations (companies,NGOs, public-private bodies), to identify text which is?about Ireland?.
There were 80 terms, evenly split be-tween the two categories.
In this list we avoided propernames which are orthographically identical to contentwords (e.g.
Down, Cork, Clones, Trim, Limerick, Mal-low, Mayo), given names (Clare, Kerry, Tyrone), placenames found in other territories (Baltimore, Skibbereen,Newbridge, Westport, Passage West), or names thatmight be found as common noun-phrases (e.g.
HorseRacing Ireland, Prize Bond Company, Electricity SupplyBoard).
While political terms might have been appropri-ate markers (e.g.
the political party Fianna F?il; the par-liamentary speaker the Ceann Comhairle), the seed termswe used contained many governmental institutions, andso this could be considered an unfairly biased diagnosticmarker.
The full list of terms is given below.Topical terms: ActionAid, Aer, Aer, Allied, An, Arklow, Athlone,Athy, Balbriggan, Ballina, Ballinasloe, Bantry, Bord, Bord, Bord,Buncrana, Bundoran, Bus, Carrick-on-Suir, Carrickmacross,Cashel, Castlebar, Christian, Clonakilty, Clonmel, Cobh, Coillte,Comhl(?|a)mh, Connacht, C(?|o)ras, Donegal, Dublin, Dublin,Dungarvan, Eircom, EirGrid, Enniscorthy, Fermoy, Fyffes, Glan-25bia, Gorta, Grafton, Greencore, Iarnr(?|o)d, IONA, Irish, Irish,Irish, Kerry, Kilkee, Kilrush, Kinsale, Laois, Leixlip, Let-terkenny, Listowel, Listowel, Loughrea, Macroom, Mullingar,Naas, Nenagh, Oxfam, Paddy, Portlaoise, Radi(o|?
), Ryanair,Telif(?|i)s, Templemore, Thurles, Tipperary, Tramore, Trinity,Tr(?|o)caire, Tuam, Tullamore, Tullow, Vhi, Waterford, YoughalFor the structural markers we used more conservativequery patterns where appropriate, to minimise false pos-itives.
For this reason the incidence figures given hereshould be considered lower estimates of the frequency ofthese structures, but they allow us to establish an inde-pendent metric with a minimum of manual intervention.As mentioned above, for the emphatic use of reflex-ives, we searched only in the subject verb configuration,even though these are possible in other argument posi-tions also (e.g.
I saw himself in the pub yesterday).
Thequery was restricted to reflexive pronouns (other than it-self ) found at the start of a sentence, or immediately aftera conjunction, and directly before a finite verb (other thanhave or be).
The CQP query (4) yields examples such as(5)-(7).
(4) [pos="CC" | pos="SENT"] [lemma=".+self" &lemma!="itself"] [pos="VV[ZD]?
"];(5) ... more commonplace or didactic, lessimaginative?
Himself added, "You are a romanticidiot, and I love you more than...(6) ... Instruments in Lansing, Michigan, where Valand Don and myself taught bouzouki, mandolin,guitar and fiddle workshops.
It is a...(7) ... game of crazy golf, except this time it wasoutdoor.
Conor and myself got bored straight awayso we formed our own game while Mike ...For the ?after?
perfective construction, we searched for apattern of a personal pronoun (i.e.
not including it, this,that), the lexeme after, and a gerund form of a commonverb (other than have, be).
The query (8) allowed fora modal auxiliary, and for intervening adverbs, as illus-trated in (9)-(11).
(8) [pos="PP" & word!="it" %c & word!="that" %c &word!="this" %c] [pos="RB.
*"]* [lemma="be"][pos="RB.
*"]* [word="after"] [pos="RB.
*"]*[pos="V[VH]G"](9) ... the holy angels on your head, young fellow.
Ihear tell you?re after winning all in the sportsbelow; and wasn?t it a shame I didn?t ...(10) ... MICHAEL ?
Is the old lad killed surely?PHILLY.
I?m after feeling the last gasps quittinghis heart.
MICHAEL ?
Look at ...(11) ... placards with the words ?Blind as a Batt?
and?Batman you are after robbing us?.
They camefrom as far away as Wexford and called ...The use of embedded inversions in complements wasqueried for the same four verbs identified by (Kirk andKallen, 2007): ask, see, wonder and know.
Other verbswere considered, by expansion from these four via Levinverb classes (Levin, 1993), but preliminary results gavemany false positives.
The query used search for one ofthese four verbs, followed by a form of the verb be, andthen a personal pronoun specific to the subject position(12).
Examples of the instances extracted are given be-low (13)-(15).
(12) [pos="VV.
*" & lemma="(ask|know|see|wonder)"%c] [lemma="be"] [word="(I|he|she|we|they)" %c];(13) ... but that is the reality.
I remember as a youngchild being asked was I a Protestant or a Catholic:that?s the worst thing ...(14) ... unless I get 170+, there isn?t a chance.
And thenI wonder am I mad even applying for medicine.Anyway anyone else who?s...(15) There was the all important question and she wasdying to know was he a married man or a widowerwho had lost his wife or some ...Finally, examples of the amn?t contraction (17)-(19) wereextracted with the simple case-insensitive query (16).
(16) "am" "n?t";(17) Hi I?m relatively new to CCTV but work in IT andso amn?t 100 % lost !
Anyway, I have already setup a personal ...(18) ... and plaster, with some pride.)
It was he did that,and amn?t I a great wonder to think I ?ve tracedhim ten days with ...(19) ?I will indeed Mrs. R, thanks very much, sureamn?t I only parchin??
Ye needn?t have gone to thetrouble of ...It should be noted that these structural usages differ in thedegree to which they are perceived as distinctive.
Whilespeakers of Irish English may not be aware that amn?tand the embedded inversion construction are dialectallyrestricted, many do know that the after and reflexive con-structions are particular to Ireland.
Hence by searchingfor these constructions our evaluation is biased towardscolloquial language and consciously dialectal usage.265 ResultsAs can be seen in the first two rows of table 1, consider-ably large Irish corpora were gathered with ease, and evenafter applying several subsequent filtering strategies, thesmallest corpus was several times the size of the manuallyassembled ICE-Ireland corpus.Figure 1 (left panel) further shows that the strategy ofsearching by random seed combinations yielded pagesin many domains, with a considerable proportion beingin the .ie domain, but by no means the majority.
Thissuggests that Ireland specific usage of English is not re-stricted to the national internet domain, i.e.
the .ie TLD.The relative proportion of .ie domain pages (see rightpanel of same figure) was increased by selecting onlypages which had predominantly British orthography, sug-gesting that this has some efficacy in eliminating textswritten in American English.Table 1 also shows the absolute incidence of eachof the five characteristic phenomena considered.
Allmatches returned by the CQP search queries were man-ually evaluated, to ensure that they were authentic ex-amples of the constructions in question (for the largerukWaC corpus only a random sample were examined).Numbers of false positives that were excluded are shownin brackets, such as the examples from ukWaC below:(20) ... just as they were after receiving secret briefingsfrom Health Commission Wales officers.
(21) All I know is they?re getting cold.The bars in sets one and two show figures for the man-ually compiled ICE-Ireland corpus, and the Cr?bad?nweb-corpus.
The ICE-Ireland numbers differ somewhatfrom those reported in that paper (Kirk and Kallen, 2007),since we used more selective search strategies (note thatthe cut-off reported relative incidences reach about 21 permil.
tokens), which would miss some examples such asthose below which have the after construction without apersonal pronoun, and have the non-reflexive use in ob-ject position, respectively:(22) There?s nothing new after coming in anyway so(23) Again it?s up to yourself which type of pricingpolicy you useIt should also be noted that ICE-Ireland, following thestandard scheme for the International Corpus of Englishproject (Greenbaum, 1996), is biased towards spoken lan-guage, with written text only making up only 40% of thetotal text.The relative incidence (per million tokens) of Ireland-specific topics and constructions is summarised in figure2.
The bars in sets three and four demonstrate that thesesame characteristics, very common in Hiberno-English asevidenced by the ICE-Ireland, appear to be exceedinglyrare in UK and US English.
Unsurprisingly, web authorsin the US and UK domains do not write often about Irishplaces and organisations.
But constructions that are pu-tatively exclusive to Hiberno-English are seldom found.Those that are found might be explained by the effectof language contact with Irish immigrants to those coun-tries, and the fact that text by Irish authors may be foundin these domains, whether those people are resident inthose countries or not.
For instance in the example below,the given name Ronan suggests that the author might beof Irish extraction:(24) At about that point Cardinal Cormac ofWestminster walked right past us and Ronan andmyself went to say hello to him and tell him wewere up here from his diocese.The sets headed ?.ie?
show the figures for the corpora weconstructed by querying seed terms within the Irish na-tional domain.
The incidence of characteristic featuresof Hiberno-English grammar are higher than those seenin the US and UK domains, similar to that seen in theCr?bad?n corpus, and lower than in the ICE-Ireland cor-pus, perhaps reflecting the fact that these constructionsare less common in written Hiberno-English.
Subsequentfiltering out of pages with dominance of American En-glish spelling (?.ie, BrEn?)
does not have much effect onthe numbers.The ?Irish Seeds (IEs)?
bars show that the use of tai-lored seed terms returns text which has a similar topicalspecificity to that in the .ie domain generally, but whichshows more structural characteristics of Hiberno-English.These results can also be improved upon, first by concen-trating on the .ie domain portion of the tailored-seeds ex-tracted pages (?Irish Seeds (IEs), IE Dom (.ie)?)
whichboosts topical specificity.
Filtering instead by orthogra-phy (?IEs, BrEn?)
seems to strike a happy medium, in-creasing incidence in all categories.However returning to table 1, it is apparent that thereare many false positives among the constructions foundusing Irish seed terms.
This was caused by the searchstrategy retrieving a small number of pages on the topic ofHiberno-English, that contained many constructed exam-ples of the structures of interest.
The same corpora con-tained smaller numbers of examples from theatre scriptsand other fiction.6 DiscussionThe results show us that our methods can be effective inextracting text that is both specific to Irish topics, and in-cludes instances of constructions that are particular to thevariety of English spoken in Ireland.
The incidences rel-ative to corpus size are not as high as those seen in the27Table 1: Corpora sizes, incidences of Ireland terms and constructions; absolute numbers (false positives in brackets)ICE-IrelandCrubadanukWaCUKs,3T,.usUKs,3T,.ieUKs,3T,.ie,BrEnIEs,3T,.ALLIEs,3T,.ALL,.ieIEs,3T,.ALL,BrEnIEs,2T,.ALLIEs,2T,.ieSize (in 106 Tokens) 1.1 46.3 2119.9 74.7 17.8 15.0 25.2 2.6 17.3 18.4 6.4Size (in 103 Docs) 0.5 43.0 2692.6 4.6 2.0 1.6 3.4 0.7 2.5 7.3 2.3Ireland Terms 194 17330 12743 82 14199 13802 23527 7264 22071 12454 9935"after" Construction 7 (-4) 12 (2) 48 (72) 1 (2) 11 (1) 7 (1) 26 (50) 2 (1) 11 (47) 14 (38) 9 (1)"amn?t" Construction 0 (0) 0 (0) 32 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 5 (45) 1 (1) 2 (43) 6 (36) 0 (0)embedded Inversions 24 (-18) 18 (5) 42 (309) 0 (15) 5 (2) 5 (0) 20 (4) 2 (1) 17 (2) 4 (1) 5 (0)Subject Reflexives 22 (-19) 33 (0) 1797 (115) 35 (8) 15 (1) 10 (0) 39 (0) 2 (0) 30 (0) 17 (3) 8 (1)Figure 1: Domain composition of Irish-Seed based CorporaTop?Level DomainsNumber of Documents (Total:3382)050010001500com ie uk org net edu au info Others Top?Level DomainsNumber of Documents (Total:2485)020040060080010001200com ie uk org net info au ca OthersFigure 2: Relative Incidences of Ireland terms and constructions, per million words (grey bars indicating the original counts beforemanual inspection), in each copusICE-Ireland Crubadan ukWaCUKs,3T, .usUKs,3T, .ieUKs,3T, .ie, BrEnIEs, 3T, .ALLIEs, 3T, .ALL, .ieIEs, 3T, .ALL, BrEnIEs, 2T, .ALLIEs, 2T, .ie01234567 "after" Construction"amn't" Constructionembedded InversionsSubject RefelxivesIreland Terms (right Scale)051015202530354028manually constructed ICE-Ireland corpus.
We can specu-late on the reasons for this.
It may be in part due to ?pollu-tion?
of our corpus with non-Irish English, via syndicatedjournalism (e.g.
some Irish newspapers are repackagingof British newspapers with added Irish content), or viamultinational organisations with bases in Ireland.
In ourview the main explanatory factor is that of modality andregister.
The ICE-Ireland corpus is predominantly spoken(~60%), with many texts coming from informal settings(unscripted speeches, face to face and telephone conver-sations).
One reading of the figures which is consistentwith this viewpoint is that the .ie domain corpora containproportionally more high register, edited text (e.g.
fromgovernmental and commercial organisations, for whichthe use of the .ie domain may be an important part of cor-porate identity), and that the tailored-seed corpora con-tain more text contributed by individuals (forums, blogs,etc), for whom domain endings are of little consequence.Nevertheless, the use of Hiberno-English specific seedterms did reveal higher incidences of distinctive Irish us-ages than simple domain filtering.But despite these lower incidences, in absolute termsour corpora provide many more examples of Hiberno-English than that were hitherto available.
For examplethe ICE-Ireland corpus contains a total of seven examplesof the ?after?
construction, while with our Irish-seeds de-rived corpus, and using a fairly restrictive query pattern,we isolated 26 examples of this structure.
Further thesize of these pilot corpora were kept intentionally lim-ited, a small fraction of the approximately 150 million .iedomain pages indexed by Google.
Much larger corporacould be constructed with relative ease, by using a largerseed set, or with an interactive seed-discovery method,where the text from the first round of web-harvestingcould be analysed to identify further terms that are com-paratively specific to Hiberno-English (relative to corporaof other varieties of English), in a similar fashion to themethods discussed in (Scannell, 2007).In terms of wider implications, the fact that seeds tai-lored to a particular region and language variant is as ef-fective as filtering by domain, is encouraging for dialectsand minority languages that lack a dedicated internet do-main.
This suggest that for less-dominant language vari-ants without distinctive established orthographies (e.g.Scots, Andalusian, Bavarian), large corpora displayingcharacteristic features of that variant can be constructedin a simple automatic manner with minimal supervision(a small set of seeds provided by native speakers).
Ourmethods might also prove useful for dialects in which astandard variant is dominant in the written language (e.g.Arabic, Chinese).
One might expect that the written Ara-bic in the .ma (Morocco) domain would differ little fromthat in the .qa domain (Qatar) despite the large differencesin vernacular speech.
Similarly the grammar and vocabu-lary of Chinese written in Mainland Chinese, Taiwanese,Hong Kong and Singaporese domains (ignoring orthog-raphy) might be less representative of the variation in ev-eryday language.
The use of regional slang and propernames may help one to collect more examples of thismore natural language usage, and less of the dominantstandard variant.ReferencesBaroni, M. and Bernardini, S. (2004).
BootCaT: Bootstrappingcorpora and terms from the web.
In (ELRA), E. L. R. A.,editor, Proceedings of LREC 2004, Lisbon: ELDA., pages1313?1316.Baroni, M. and Bernardini, S., editors (2006).
Wacky!
Workingpapers on the Web as Corpus.Baroni, M., Bernardini, S., Ferraresi, A., and Zanchetta, E.(2009).
The WaCky wide web: a collection of very largelinguistically processed web-crawled corpora.
Language Re-sources and Evaluation, 43(3):209?226.Burnard, L. (1995).
Users Reference Guide, British NationalCorpus, Version 1.0.
Oxford University Computing Ser-vices/British National Corpus Consortium, Oxford.Christ, O.
(1994).
A Modular and Flexible Architecture for anIntegrated Corpus Query System.
In Papers in Computa-tional Lexicography (COMPLEX ?94), pages 22?32.Erjavec, I. S., Erjavec, T., and Kilgarriff, A.
(2008).
A web cor-pus and word sketches for Japanese.
Information and MediaTechnologies, 3:529?551.Finn, A., Kushmerick, N., and Smyth, B.
(2001).
Fact or fic-tion: Content classification for digital libraries.Greenbaum, S. (1996).
Comparing English Worldwide.Clarendon Press.Guevara, E. (2010).
NoWaC: a large web-based corpus for Nor-wegian.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Web as Corpus Work-shop (WAC6), pages 1?7.
The Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Kallen, J. and Kirk, J.
(2007).
ICE-Ireland: Local variations onglobal standards.
In Beal, J. C., Corrigan, K. P., and Moisl,H.
L., editors, Creating and Digitizing Language Corpora:Synchronic Databases, volume 1, pages 121?162.
PalgraveMacmillan, London.Kirk, J. and Kallen, J.
(2007).
Assessing Celticity in a Corpusof Irish Standard English.
In The Celtic languages in con-tact: papers from the workshop within the framework of theXIII International Congress of Celtic Studies, Bonn, 26-27July 2007, page 270.Levin, B.
(1993).
English Verb Classes and Alternations.
Uni-versity of Chicago Press, Chicago.Nelson, G., Wallis, S., and Aarts, B.
(2002).
Exploring naturallanguage: working with the British component of the Inter-national Corpus of English.
John Benjamins.Scannell, K. (2007).
The Cr?bad?n project: Corpus buildingfor under-resourced languages.
In Fairon, C., Naets, H., Kil-garriff, A., and de Schryver, G.-M., editors, Building and Ex-ploring Web Corpora: Proceedings of the 3rd Web as CorpusWorkshop, volume 4, pages 5?15.Web (2008).
The IMS Open Corpus Workbench (CWB).Yahoo!
Inc. (1995).
The Yahoo!
Internet search engine.29
