Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 19?27,24 June, 2011, Portland, Oregon, USA c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsExperiments with a Differential Semantics Annotation for WordNet 3.0Dan Tufi?
Dan  ?tef?nescuResearch Institute for Artificial IntelligenceRomanian AcademyResearch Institute for Artificial IntelligenceRomanian AcademyCalea ?13 Septembrie?, no.13 Calea ?13 Septembrie?, no.13Bucharest 5, 050711, Romania Bucharest 5, 050711, Romaniatufis@racai.ro danstef@racai.roAbstractThis article reports on the methodology andthe development of a complementaryinformation source for the meaning of thesynsets of Princeton WordNet 3.0.
Thisencoded information was built followingthe principles of the Osgoodian differentialsemantics theory and consists of numericalvalues which represent the scaling of theconnotative meanings along the multipledimensions defined by pairs of antonyms(factors).
Depending on the selectedfactors, various facets of connotativemeanings come under scrutiny anddifferent types of textual subjectiveanalysis may be conducted (opinionmining, sentiment analysis).1 IntroductionAccording to ?Semantic Differential?
theory(Osgood et al, 1957), the connotative meaning ofmost adjectives can be, both qualitatively andquantitatively, differentiated along a scale, the endsof which are antonymic adjectives.
Such a pair ofantonymic adjectives is called a factor.
Theintensive experiments Osgood and his colleaguesmade with their students1 outlined that most of thevariance in the text judgment was explained byonly three major factors: the evaluative factor (e.g.,good-bad), the potency factor (e.g., strong-weak),and the activity factor (e.g., active-passive).1The students were asked to rate the meaning of words,phrases, or texts on different scales defined in terms of pairsof bipolar adjectives such as good-bad, active-passive,strong-weak, optimistic-pessimistic, beautiful-ugly, etc.
)Kamps and Marx (2002) implemented aWordNet-based method in the spirit of the theoryof semantic differentials and proposed a method toassess the?attitude?
of arbitrary texts.
In theirapproach, a text unit is regarded as a bag of wordsand the overall scoring of the sentence is obtainedby combining the scores for the individual wordsof the text.
Depending on the selected factor,various facets of subjective meanings come underscrutiny.The inspiring work of Kamps and Marx still hasseveral limitations.
The majority of researchersworking on subjectivity agree that the subjectivityload of a given word is dependent on the senses ofthe respective word (Andreevskaia and Bergler,2006), (Bentivogli et al, 2004), (Mihalcea et al,2007), (Valiutti et al, 2004) and many others.
; yet,in Kamps and Marx?s model (KMM, henceforth),because they work with words and not word-senses, the sense distinctions are lost, making itimpossible to assign different scores to differentsenses of the word in case.
Going up from the levelof word to the level of sentence, paragraph orentire text, the bag of words approach can easily befooled in the presence of valence shifters (Polanyiand Zaenen, 2006).
In order to cope with thisproblem, the text under investigation needs aminimal level of sentence processing, required forthe identification of the structures that could getunder the scope of a valence shifter (Tufi?, 2008).For dealing with irony or sarcasm, processingrequirements go beyond sentence level, anddiscourse structure of the text might be necessary.On the other hand, although the adjectives makeup the obvious class of subjectivity words, theother open class categories have significantpotential for expressing subjective meanings.19In our models, unlike KMM, the building blockis the word sense, thus making possible to assigndifferent connotation values to different senses of aword.
This was possible by using an additionalsource of information besides the WordNet itself,namely the SUMO/MILO ontology.
Moreover, weconsidered all the word classes contained inWordNet, not only adjectives.From this point of view, our work, althoughthrough a different approach, shares objectiveswith other wordnet-based methods such asSentiWordNet (Esuli and Sebastiani, 2006)(Baccianella et al, 2010) and WordNet Affect(Valiuttti et al 2004).2 Base DefinitionsLet us begin with some definitions, slightlymodified, from KMM.
We will progressivelyintroduce new definitions to serve our extendedapproach.Definition 1: Two words w?
and w?
are relatedif there exists a sequence of words (w?
w1w2?wi?
w?)
so that each pair of adjacent wordsin the sequence belong to the same synset.
If thelength of such a sequence is n+1 one says that w?and w?
are n-related.Two words may not be related at all or may berelated by many different sequences, of variouslengths.
In the latter case, one would be interestedin their minimal path-length.Definition 2: Let MPL(wi, wj) be the partialfunction:otherwiserelated-n  are    wand  n when  wsmallest        the),( ji??
?=undefinednwwMPL jiKamps and Marx (2002) showed that MPL is adistance measure that can be used as a metric forthe semantic relatedness of two words.
Observingthe properties of the MPL partial function, one canquantify the relatedness of an arbitrary word wi toone or the other word of a bipolar pair.
To this end,KMM introduced another partial function as inDefinition 3.Definition 3: Let TRI (wi, w?, w?
), with w?
?
w?be:????
?=otherwisedefined   MPLs  if,(,(- ,(),,(undefined)wwMPL)wwMPL)wwMPLwwwTRIiii ?????
?When defined, TRI(wi, w?, w?)
is a real numberin the interval [-1, 1].
The words w?
and w?
are theantonymic words of a factor, while wi is the wordof interest for which TRI is computed.
If one takesthe negative values returned by the partial functionTRI (wi, w?, w?)
as an indication of wi being moresimilar to w?
than to w?
and the positive values asan indication of wi being more similar to w?
than tow?, then a zero value could be interpreted as wibeing neutrally related with respect to w?
and w?.This is different from being unrelated.Definition 4: If ?-?
is a factor used for thecomputation of relatedness of wi to ?
and ?, theproper function TRI*?-?
(wi) returns a value outsidethe interval [-1, 1] when wi is unrelated to the ?-?factor:??
?=?otherwise                      2defined  ),,(w TRI  iff   ),,(w TRI)( ii* ??????
iwTRIGiven a factor ?-?, for each word wi inWordNet that can be reached on a path from ?
to?, the function TRI*?-?
(wi)  computes a scorenumber, which is a proportional to the distancesfrom wi to ?
and to ?.
The set of these wordsdefines the coverage of the factor ?
COV(?, ?
).Our experiments show that the coverage of thevast majority of the factors, corresponding to thesame POS category, is the same.
From now on, wewill use LUC (Literal Unrestricted2 Coverage) todesignate this common coverage.
The table belowgives coverage figures for each of the POScategories in Princeton WordNet 3.0 (PWN 3.0).Class Factors LUCAdjectives  199  4,402 (20.43%)Nouns  106 11,964 (10,05%)Verbs  223 6,534 (56,66%)Adverbs 199 1,291 (28,81%)Table 1: LUC Statistics According to the POS ofthe Literals in PWN 3.0The PWN structuring does not allow us tocompute TRI* scores for adverbs using thisapproach, but, more than half of the total numberof adverbs (63.11%) are derived from adjectives.For those adverbs, we transferred the score valuesfrom their correspondent adjectives in the LUC setand we used the adjectival factors.2In the following we will gradually introduce severalrestrictions, thus justifying the acronym used here.20The results reported for adjectives by Kampsand Marx3  are consistent with our findings.
Thedifference in numbers might be explained by thefact that the two compared experiments useddifferent versions of the Princeton WordNet.3 Introducing Word-Sense DistinctionsKMM defines a factor as a pair of words withantonymic senses.
We generalize the notion of afactor to a pair of synsets.
In the following, we willuse the colon notation to specify the sense numberof a literal that licenses the synonymy relationwithin a synset.
Synonymy is a lexical relation thatholds not between a pair of words but betweenspecific senses of those words.
That is, the notation{literal1:n1 literal2:n2 ?
literalk:nk} will mean thatthe meaning given by the sense number n1 of theliteral1, the meaning given by sense number n2 ofthe literal2 and so on are all pair-wise synonymous.The term literal is used to denote the dictionaryentry form of a word (lemma).The antonymy is also a lexical relation thatholds between specific senses of a pair of words.The synonyms of the antonymic senses, takenpairwise, definitely express a semantic opposition.Take for instance the antonymic pair <rise:1fall:2>.
These two words belong to the synsets{rise:1, lift:4, arise:5, move up:2, go up:1, comeup:6, uprise:6} and {descend:1, fall:2, go down:1,come down:1}.
The pair <rise:1 fall:2> isexplicitly encoded as antonymic.
However, there isa conceptual opposition between the synsets towhich the two word senses belong, that is betweenany pair of the Cartesian product: {rise:1, lift:4,arise:5, move up:2, go up:1, come up:6,uprise:6}?
{descend:1, fall:2, go down:1, comedown:1}.
This conceptual opposition is even moreobvious in this example, as the pairs <go up:1 godown:1> and <come up:1 come down:1> are alsoexplicitly marked as antonymic.Definition 5: An S-factor is a pair of synsets(S?, S?)
for which there exist ???
: ???
?
??
and???
: ???
?
??
so that ???
: ???
and ???
: ???
areantonyms and ???????
, ????
is defined.
S?
and S?3They found 5410 adjectives that were in the coverage of thefactors they investigated (WordNet 1.7).
For PWN 2.0, thetotal number of covered adjectives is 5307.have opposite meanings, and we considerthat ??????
, ???
= ???
????
, ???
?.The previous example shows that the semanticopposition of two synsets may be reinforced bymultiple antonymic pairs.
Because of how MPL isdefined, choosing different antonymic pairs mightproduce different values for ??????
, ???.
That iswhy, wherever is the case, we need to specify theantonymic pair which defines the S-factor.Based on the definition of the coverage of afactor < ?iw , ?iw >, one may naturally introduce thenotion of coverage of a S-factor - <S?,S?>: the setof synsets containing the words in COV< ?iw , ?iw >.The coverage of an S-factor <S?,S?> will beonward denoted by SCOV<S?, S?>.Since the word-relatedness and MPL definitionsignore the word senses, it might happen that themeaning of some synsets in the coverage of an S-factor have little (if anything) in common with thesemantic field defined by the respective S-factor.More often than not, these outliers must be filteredout and, to this end, we further introduce thenotions of semantic type of a synset, typed S-factor,and scoped synset with respect to a typed S-factor,which represent major deviations from KMM.Figure 1.
Different levels of coverage (markedwith cross hatching) for the S-factor <S?-S?>Before that, we need to introduce the mappingbetween the WordNet synsets and the SUMO/MILO concepts.
The Suggested Upper MergedOntology (SUMO), Mid-Level Ontology (MILO)and its domain ontologies form the largest formalpublic 4  ontology in existence today, containingroughly 20,000 terms and 70,000 axioms (when4http://www.ontologyportal.org/21SUMO, MILO, and domain ontologies arecombined).
One of the major attractions of thisontology (Niles and Pease, 2003) is that it has beenmapped to the WordNet lexicon.
Using thismapping, synsets are labeled with a SUMO/MILOconcept which we will refer to as the synset?ssemantic type.
The hierarchical structure ofSUMO/MILO induces a partial ordering of the S-factors.Definition 6: An S-factor <S?, S?> is said to bea typed S-factor if the types of the synsets S?
andS?
are identical or they have a common ancestor.
Ifthis ancestor is the lowest common ancestor, it iscalled the 0-semantic type of the S-factor.
Thedirect parent of the n-semantic type of an S-factoris the n+1-semantic type of the S-factor (Fig.
1).A typed S-factor is represented by indexing theS-factor with its type as in the examples below:<{unfairness:2?
}, { fairness:1?}>NormativeAttribute<{discomfort:1?
}, {comfort:1?}>StateOfMind<{distrust:2?
}, {trust:3?}>TraitAttribute<{decrease:2?
}, {increase:3?
}>QuantityChangeIn the following, if not otherwise specified, byS-factors we mean typed S-factors.
Unless there isambiguity, the type of an S-factor will be omitted.Definition 7: A synset Si with the type L is n-scoped relative to a typed S-factor <S?, S?> if L isa node in a sub-tree of the SUMO/MILO hierarchyhaving as root the n-semantic type of the S-factor<S?, S?>.
We say that n defines the level of thescope coverage of the S-factor <S?, S?> and thatevery synset in this coverage is n-scoped.We use the notation SCOVn<S?, S?> for thescope coverage of level n of an S-factor <S?, S?>.If the root of the tree has the semantic type ?, wewill use also use the notation SCOVn<S?, S?>?
orsimply SCOV<S?, S?>?.
In other words,SCOV<S?, S?>?
is the set of synsets the semantictypes of which are subsumed by ?.
For the examplein Fig.
1, only the synsets S?1, S?2 and S?1 are in theSCOV0<S?, S?>.
All depicted synsets are inSCOV1<S?, S?>.It is easy to see that when the value of the scopecoverage level is increased so as to reach the top ofthe ontology, SCOVn<S?, S?>?
will be equal to theset of synsets containing the literals in LUC (seeTable 1).
Let us call this set SUC (SynsetUnrestricted Coverage).Class S-Factors SUCAdjectives  264 4,240 (23.35%)Nouns  118 11,704 (14.25%)Verbs  246  8,640 (62.75%)Adverbs 264 1,284 (35.45%)Table 2: SUC Statistics According to the POS ofthe Synsets in PWN 3.0From the differential semantics point of view,the S-factor <S?, S?> quantitatively characterizeseach synset in SCOVn<S?, S?> by a TRI*-likescore (Definition 4).
The synsets in SCOV0<S?,S?> are best discriminated, meaning that theirscores for the <S?, S?> factor are the highest.
Forthe synsets in SCOVn<S?, S?> but not in SCOVn-1<S?, S?>, the scores are smaller and we say thatthe characterization of these synsets in terms of the<S?, S?> factor is weaker.
Our model captures thisthrough a slight modification of the TRI functionin Definition 3, where w?
and w?
are the antonymsbelonging to S?
and S?
respectively, and wi is aliteral of a synset Sj in SCOVn<S?, S?> but not inSCOVn-1<S?, S?>:Definition 8: The differential score for a literalwi occurring in a synset Sj in SCOVn<S?, S?> butnot in SCOVn-1<S?, S?> is computed by thefunction TRI+:,(,(- ,(),,(n)wwMPL)wwMPL)wwMPLSSwTRI iii +=+?????
?Since we imposed the requirement that Sj be inSCOVn<S?, S?>, ),,( ??
SSwTRI i+  is defined forall literals in Sj, thus for any ji Sw ?
the value of),,( ??
SSwTRI i+ is in the [-1,1] interval.
Thescores computed for the synsets in SCOVn<S?, S?>remained unchanged in SCOVn+k<S?, S?> for anyk?0.
The above modification of the TRI functioninsures that the score of a synset gets closer to zero(neutrality) with the increase of n.It is worth mentioning that using differentantonymic literal pairs from the same opposedsynsets does not have any impact on the sign ofTRI+ scores, but their absolute values may differ.If one associates a semantic field with ?, thetype of an S-factor <S?, S?>, then all the synsets inSCOVn<S?, S?>?
are supposed to belong to thesemantic field associated with ?.
This observationshould clarify why different senses of a given word22may belong to different semantic coverages andthus, may have different scores for the S-factor incase.Definition 9: The differential score of a synsetSi in SCOVn<S?, S?> with respect to the S-factor<S?, S?> is given by the function TRIS (Si, S?, S?
),defined as the average of the TRI+ valuesassociated with the m literals in the synset Si.mSSwTRISSSTRISmjji?=+=1),,(),,(???
?4 Computing the S-Factors and theDifferential Scores for SynsetsIn accordance with the equations in the previousdefinitions, we associated each synset Sk ofWordNet 3.0 with an ordered vector <F1, F2?
Fn>where Fi is a pair (score; level) with score andlevel representing the value of the ith S-factor and,respectively, the minimal S-factor coverage levelin which Sk was found.For instance, let us assume that the first S-factorin the description of the adjectival synsets is:<{nice:3},{nasty:2 ?
}>SubjectiveAssesmentAtttributethen for the synset {fussy:1, crabby:1, grumpy:1,cross:2, grouchy:1, crabbed:1, bad-tempered:1,ill-tempered:1}SubjectiveAssesmentAtttribute the vector<F1,?> is <(0,66;0) ...> while for the synset{unplayful:1 serious:5 sober:4}SubjectiveAssesmentAtttributethe vector <F1,?> is    <(-0,166 ; 0) ...>.The values signify that the synset {fussy:1,crabby:1, grumpy:1, cross:2?
}SubjectiveAssesmentAtttribute is 0-scoped with respect to the S-factor<{nice:3}, {nasty:2 ?
}> and its connotativemeaning is significantly closer to the meaning ofnasty:2 (0,66).
Similarly, the synset {unplayful:1serious:5 sober:4} is 0-scoped with respect to theconsidered  S-factor and its connotative meaning iscloser to the meaning of nice:3 (-0,166)Our experiments showed that in order to ensurethe same sets of synsets for all factors of a givenpart-of-speech we had to set the level of thesemantic coverages to 7 (corresponding to theSUC).
For each of the typed S-factors <S?, S?> andfor each synset Si in their respective semanticcoverage SCOV<S?, S?>?
we computed theTRIS???
, ?
?, ???
score.
Each synset from thecoverage of each POS category was associatedwith a vector of scores, as described above.
Sincethe number of S-factors depends on the POScategory the lengths of each of the four typevectors is different.
The cell values in a synsetvector have uneven values, showing that factorshave different discriminative power for a givenmeaning.
Because we considered SUC, all S-factors are relevant and the cells in any synsetvector are filled with pairs (score; level).For the noun part of the PW3.0 we identified118 typed S-factors, all of them covering the sameset of 11,898 noun literals (9.99%) with theirsenses clustered into 11,704 synsets (14.25%).For the verb part of the PWN 3.0, we identified246 typed S-factors, all of them covering the sameset of 6,524 verb literals (56.57%) with their sensesclustered into 8,640 synsets (62.75%).For the adjective part of the PWN 3.0, weidentified 264 typed S-factors, all of them coveringthe same set of 4,383 literals (20.35%) with theirsenses clustered into 4,240 synsets (23.35%)5.
Aspreviously mentioned, the same factors were usedfor the adverbs derived from adjectives.
In thisway, a total of 1,287 adverbs (28.72%) clusteredinto 1,284 synsets (35.45%) were successfullyannotated (see Table 2).Apparently, the cardinals of the factor sets inTable 2 should be identical with those in Table 1.The differences are due to the fact that a pair ofopposed synsets may contain more than a singlepair of antonymic senses each of them specifying adistinct S-factor.In case the user restricted the coverages to lowerlevels, the original maximal semantic coveragesare split into different subsets for which several S-factors become irrelevant.
The cell valuescorresponding to these factors are filled in with aconventional value outside the interval [-1, 1].Thus, we have the following annotation cases:A synset of a certain POS is not in thecorresponding SUC.
This case signifies that thesynset cannot be characterized in terms of thedifferential semantics methodology and weconventionally say that such a synset is ?objective?
(insensitive to any S-factor).
Since this situationwould require a factor vector with each cell havingthe same value (outside the [-1, 1] interval) and as5In PWN 2.0 the number of covered literals (and synsets) iswith almost 20% higher (Tufi?
and ?tef?nescu, 2010).
Thisdifference is explained by the fact that 1081 adjectives (5%),mostly participial, from PWN 2.0 are not any more listed asadjectives in PWN 3.0.23such a vector would be completely uninformative,we decided to leave the ?objective?
synsets un-annotated.
As one can deduce from Table 2, themajority of the synsets in PWN3.0 are in thiscategory (89,556 synsets, i.e.
77.58%).Any synset of a certain POS in thecorresponding SUC will have an associated factorvector.
There are 25,868 such synsets.
The ith cellof such a vector will correspond to the ith S-factor<S?, S?>.
We may have the following sub-cases:(a) All cell scores are in the [-1,1] interval, andin this case all S-factors are relevant, that is, fromany word in the synset one could construct a pathto both words prompting an S-factor, irrespectiveof the S-factor itself.
A negative score in the ith cellof the S-factor vector signifies that the currentsynset is more semantically related to S?
than to S?,while a positive score in the ith cell of the factorvector signifies that the synset is moresemantically related to S?
than to S?.
A zero scorein the ith cell of the factor vector signifies that thesynset is neutral with respect to the <S?, S?> S-factor.
(b) Several cell scores are not in the interval [-1,1], say FV[i1]=FV[i2] ?
=FV[ik]=2.
This signifiesthat the S-factors corresponding to those cells(<S?1,S?1>,<S?2,S?2>,?,<S?3,S?3>) are irrelevantfor the respective synset and that the current synsetis not included in the scope of the above-mentioned S-factors, owing to the selected scopelevel of the coverage6.
We say that, at the givenscope level, the synset became ?objective?
withrespect to the S-factors FV[i1], FV[i2] ?FV[ik].There are various ways to select, for a givenPOS coverage, those S-factors which are mostinformative or more interesting from a specificpoint of view.
The simplest criterion is based onthe coverage level: for a specified coverage level,select only those S-factors the coverage of whichcontains the analyzed synsets.
In general, the mostrestrictive condition is choosing the 0-levelcoverage.
This condition is equivalent to sayingthat the S-factors and the analyzed synsets shouldbe in the same semantic class as defined by theSUMO/MILO labeling.
For instance, assume thatthe synset under investigation is {good:1} with the6Remember that for the highest level (7) that corresponds toSUC, all factors are relevant.
When the user selects coveragesof lower levels some factors might become irrelevant forvarious synsets.definition ?having desirable or positive qualitiesespecially those suitable for a thing specified?
andthe semantic type SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute.Imposing the restriction that the semantic type ofthe selected factors should be the same with thesemantic type of good:1, some relevant factors forestimating the various connotations of ?good?
fromdifferent perspectives are given below.
In theshown factors, the words in bold face are those themeaning of which is closer to ?good?.good 01123148-a (SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute)--------------------------------------------------------------effective ineffective#00834198-a_00835609-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) -0,78reasonable unreasonable#01943406-a_01944660-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) -0,71rich lean#02026785-a_02027003-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) -0,63ample meager#00105746-a_00106456-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) -0,5safe dangerous#02057829-a_02058794-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) -0,33brave cowardly#00262792-a_00264776-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) -0,14distant close#00450606-a_00451510-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) 0,64busy idle#00292937-a_00294175-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) 0,63cursed blessed#00669478-a_00670741-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) 0,5old new#01638438-a_01640850-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) 0,45formal informal#01041916-a_01044240-a(SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute) 0,38These factors?
values should be clearer in thecontext of adequate examples:A good tool is an effective tool;A good excuse is a reasonable excuse;A good vein of copper is a reach vein of copper;A good resource is an ample resource;A good position is a safe position;A good attitude is a close attitude;A good soldier is a brave soldierA good time is an idle time;A good life is a blessed life;A good car is a new car;A good party is an informal party.From the definitions in the previous sections,one can easily see that the sign of a S-factor scoredepends on the order in which the semanticallyopposite pairs are considered.
If one wishes tohave a consistent interpretation of the factor scores(e.g.
negative scores are ?bad?
and positive scoresare ?good?)
the synset ordering in the S-factors is24significant.
We used a default ordering ofantonyms in all factors, yet a text analyst couldmodify this ordering.
For each POS, we selected arepresentative factor for which the synset order,from a subjective point of view, was very intuitive.For instance, for the adjective factors we selectedthe factor <good:1, bad:1>, for noun factors weselected the factor <order:5, disorder:2>, and forverb factors we selected the factor <succeed:1,fail:2>, the first word sense in each of therepresentative factors having a clear positiveconnotation.
Then for each POS factor <S?, S?> wecomputed the distance of its constituents to thesynsets of the representative factor of the samePOS.
The one that was closer to the ?positive?
sideof the reference factor was also considered?positive?
and the order of the synsets wasestablished accordingly.
This empirical approachproved to be successful for most of the factors,except for a couple of them, which were manuallyordered.We developed an application that allows textanalysts to choose the S-factors they would like towork with.
The interface allows the user to bothselect/deselect factors and to switch the order ofthe poles in any given factor.
Once the userdecided on the relevant S-factors, the synsets aremarked up according to the selected S-factors.
Thisversion of the WordNet can be saved and used asneeded in the planned application.5 Extending the LUCs and SUCsAlthough the maximum semantic coverage of theS-factors for the adjectives contains more than28% of the PWN3.0 adjectival synsets, manyadjectives with connotative potential are not in thiscoverage.
This happens because the definition ofthe relatedness (Definition 1) implicitly assumesthe existence of synonyms for one or more sensesof a given word.
Therefore from mono-semanticwords in mono-literal synsets a path towards othersynsets cannot be constructed anymore.
Because ofthis, there are isolated ?bubbles?
of related synsetsthat are not connected with synsets in maximumsemantic coverage.
In order to assign values to atleast a part of these synsets, we experimented withvarious strategies out of which the one describedherein was considered the easiest to implementand, to some extent motivated, from a conceptualpoint of view.
The approach is similar for all thesynsets which are not in the SUCs, but thealgorithms for extending these coverages slightlydiffer depending on the part of speech underconsideration.Class E-LUCs E-SUCsAdjectives  7,124 (33.07%) 6,216 (34.23%)Nouns  27,614 (23.19%) 22,897 (27.88%)Verbs  8,910 (77.26%) 10,798 (78.43%)Adverbs 1,838 (41.01%) 1,787 (49.35%)Table 3: Extended LUCs and SUCsThe basic idea is to transfer the vectors of thesynsets in SUC to those in the complementary setSUC , provided they have ?similar meanings?.
Wesay that POSPOSi SUCS ?
and POSPOSj SUCS ?have ?similar meanings?
if ????/????(?????)
=????/????(?????)
and ?????
and ?????
aredirectly linked by a semantic WordNet relation of acertain type.
For adjectival synsets we consider therelations similar_to and also_see, for verbalsynsets we consider the relations hyponym andalso_see, and for the nominal synsets we take intoaccount only the hyponymy.
Consequently, the S-factors coverage increased as shown in Table 3.6 A Preliminary Comparison withSentiWordnet 3.0SentiWordNet 3.0 (Baccianella, et al 2010) is theonly public resource we are aware of, whichconsiders sense distinctions and covers all synsetsin Princeton WordNet 3.0.
Although inSentiWordNet (henceforth SWN3.0) only theSubjective-Objective dichotomy is marked-up,with a further distinction between Positive-Subjectivity and Negative-Subjectivity, using it forthe comparison with our annotations is meaningfuland relevant for both approaches.
First, theconnotative meanings are subjective meanings.Then, while the SWN3.0 mark-up is based on MLtechniques and various heuristics exploiting thestructure of PWN3.0 and some other externalresources, the differential semantics approach, asimplemented here, is a deterministic one,considering only the content and structuralinformation in PWN3.0 + SUMO/MILO.Identifying contradictions in the two annotationsmight reveal limitations in the ML techniques andheuristics used by SWN3.0 on one hand, and, on25the other hand, flaws in our method, possibleincompleteness or inconsistencies in PWN3.0+SUMO/MILO.
It has to be noted that the possibleincompleteness or inconsistencies in PWN3.0would also affect the accuracy of the SWN3.0values.Synset SWN DSA Definitiondangerous,gravegrievous,serious, severe?-0,63 0,42causing fear oranxiety by threateninggreat harmlive 0,5 -0,5 exerting force orcontaining energybastardly,mean-0,5 0,5 of no value or worthdangerous,unsafe -0,75 0,5involving or causingdanger or risk; liableto hurt or harmdelirious,excited,unrestrained,mad,frantic0,5 -0,5marked by un-controlled excitementor emotionhaunted 0,5 -0,43 showing emotionalaffliction or disquietimpeccable -0,63 0,8 not capable of sinevil, vicious 0,5 -0,75having the nature ofvicedelectable,sexuallyattractive0,63 -0,5capable of arousingdesireordinary-0,5 0,75not exceptional in anyway especially inquality or ability orsize or degreeserious-0,75 0,75requiring effort orconcentration;complex and not easyto answer or solveexcusable0,63 -0,4 capable of beingoverlookedTable 4: Examples of divergent scores among theSWN3.0 and DSAFor the partial comparison we selected theadjectives in SWN3.0 with Positive-Subjectivity orNegative-Subjectivity greater than or equal to 0.5.From our differential semantic (DSA) annotationwe extracted all the adjectives which along thegood-bad differential dimension had an absolutevalue greater than 0.4.
Those adjectives closer togood were considered to be Subjective-Positivewhile the others were considered to be Subjective-Negative.
The threshold value was empiricallyselected, by observing that beyond the 0.4 and ?0.4values the factorial annotation was closer to ourintuition concerning the connotative load of theanalyzed words.
We computed the intersection ofthe two adjectival synsets extracted this way andretained only the synsets contradictorily annotated.We found only 150 differences, which by itself is asmall difference, showing that, at least with respectto the good-bad factor, SWN3.0 and DSAannotations are to a large extent consistent.We manually checked-out the 150 synsetsmarked-up with contradictory scores and theauthors and 6 MSc students negotiated the scorestowards reaching the consensus.
For 142 of thesesynsets the consensus was easily reached with 76considered to be correct in the DSA annotation and65 correct in the SWN3.0 annotation.
Table 4shows some examples of synsets, the scores ofwhich were correctly judged (in bold) either bySWN3.0 or DSA as well as some examples of non-consensual annotations (in underlined italics).7 ConclusionsDifferential semantics annotation addresses theconnotative meanings of the lexical stock, thedenotative meanings of which are recorded inWordNet 3.0.
We revised and improved ourprevious method (Tufi?
and ?tef?nescu, 2010).
Itgeneralizes the SWN3.0 subjectivity mark-up,according to a user-based multi-criteria differentialsemantics model.The partial comparison with SWN3.0 revealedspecific limitations of our approach.
The major oneis due to the definitions of n-relatedness and theTRI relation.
The problem resides in indiscriminatetreatment of literals which have senses withdifferent polarities with respect to a factor.
If oneof these senses is significantly closer to one of thepoles of the factor, that sense might impose thesign for the rest of the senses.
This risk isamplified when literals with high degrees ofpolysemy and/or high degrees of synonymy arereached on the way from the synset of interest tothe synsets defining the S-factor (higher thepolysemy/synonymy, higher the number of pathsto the constituents of the S-factor).
Most of theerroneous scores we noticed were explained by thisdrawback.
We say that the words affected by thislimitation of the current algorithm have asignificant connotation shift potential (Tufi?,2009), (?tef?nescu, 2010).
As such words couldgenerate undesired implicatures, they should be26avoided in formal texts and replaced by synonymswith less connotation shift potential.We also observed some inconsistenciesregarding the association of SUMO/MILO (and theadditional domain ontologies) concepts to PWN3.0 synsets.
The semantic types of two opposablesynsets (in the same semantic field) should beclosely related, if not the same.
However, for someS-factors, such as <agreement:3, disagreement:1>this does not happen.
The semantic type of thesynset {agreement:3?}
is ?Cooperation?, whilethe semantic type of {disagreement:1?}
is?SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute?.
?Cooperation?is a ?Process?
(subsumed by ?Physical?)
but,?SubjectiveAssessmentAttribute?
is an ?Attribute?
(subsumed by ?Abstract?).
There are 9 such casesfor nouns, 30 for verbs and 16 for adjectives.The current multi-factored annotation vectorsfor nominal, verbal, and adjectival synsets forPWN3.0, as well as an application to manage theseannotations, can be freely downloaded fromhttp://www.racai.ro/differentialsemantics/.AcknowledgmentsThis research has been supported by the grant no.ID_1443, awarded by the Romanian Ministry forEducation, Research, Youth and Sport.
We thankalso to SentiWordNet authors for making it public.ReferencesAndreevskaia Alina and Sabine Bergler.
2006.
MiningWordNet for a fuzzy sentiment: Sentiment tagextraction from WordNet glosses.
In Proceedings ofthe 11th Conference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (EACL-2006), Trento, Italy, pages 209?216.Stefano Baccianella, Andrea Esuli, and FabrizioSebastiani.
2010.
SENTIWORDNET 3.0: AnEnhanced Lexical Resource for Sentiment Analysisand Opinion Mining, in Proceedings of LREC2010,Malta, pp.2200-2204.Luisa Bentivogli, Pamela Forner, Bernardo Magnini,and Emanuele Pianta.
2004.
Revising WordNetdomains hierarchy: Semantics, coverage, andbalancing.
In Proceedings of COLING 2004Workshop on "Multilingual Linguistic Resources",Geneva, Switzerland, pages 101?108.Andrea Esuli, and Fabrizio Sebastiani.
2006.SENTIWORDNET: A publicly available lexicalresource for opinion mining.
In Proceedings of the5th Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation LREC-06, Genoa, Italy, pages 417?422.See also: http://sentiwordnet.isti.cnr.it/Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database.
Academic Press, Cambridge, MA.Jaap Kamps and Maarten Marx.
2002.
Words withattitude.
In Proceedings of the 1st InternationalWordNet Conference, Mysore, India, pages 332?341.Rada Mihalcea, Carmen Banea, and Janice Wiebe.2007.
Learning multilingual subjective language viacross-lingual projections.
In Proceedings of the 45thAnnual Meeting of the Association of ComputationalLinguistics, Prague, Czech Republic, pages 976?983.Ian Niles and Adam Pease.
2003.
Linking Lexicons andOntologies: Mapping WordNet to the SuggestedUpper Merged Ontology.
In Proceedings of the 2003International Conference on Information andKnowledge Engineering (IKE 03), Las Vegas, pages23?26.Charles E. Osgood, George Suci and PercyTannenbaum.
1957.
The measurement of meaning,University of Illinois Press, Urbana IL.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee, 2008.
Opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
Foundations and Trends inInformation Retrieval, 2(1?2): 1?135.Livia  Polanyi, and Annie Zaenen.
2006.
Contextualvalence shifters.
In J. G. Shanahan, Y. Qu and J.Wiebe, editors, Computing Attitude and Affect inText: Theory and Applications, The InformationRetrieval Series, Vol.
20, Springer Verlag,Dordrecht, Netherlands, pages 1-10.Dan ?tef?nescu.
2010.
Intelligent Information Miningfrom Multilingual Corpora (in Romanian).
PhDThesis, Romanian Academy, Bucharest.Dan Tufi?.
2008.
Mind your words!
You might conveywhat you wouldn?t like to.
Int.
J. of Computers,Communications & Control, III, pages 139?143.Dan Tufi?.
2009.
Playing with word meanings,.In LotfiA.
Zadeh, Dan Tufi?, Florin Gh.
Filip and IoanDzi?ac, (editors) From Natural Language to SoftComputing: New Paradigms in ArtificialIntelligence.
Publishing House of the RomanianAcademy, Bucharest, pages 211?223.Dan Tufi?, Dan ?tef?nescu.
2010.
A DifferentialSemantics Approach to the Annotation of the Synsetsin WordNet.
In Proceedings of LREC 2010, Malta,pages 3173-3180Alessandro Valitutti, Carlo Strapparava, and OlivieroStock.
2004.
Developing affective lexical resources,Psychology Journal, 2(1), pages 61?83.27
