Proceedings of the 2011 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 103?104,Portland, Oregon, USA, June 23-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic extraction of data deposition sentences:where do the research results go?Aur?lie N?v?ol, W. John Wilbur, Zhiyong LuNational Center for Biotechnology InformationU.S.
National Library of MedicineBethesda, MD 20894, USA{Aurelie.Neveol,John.Wilbur,zhiyong.lu}@nih.govAbstractResearch in the biomedical domain can have amajor impact through open sharing of dataproduced.
In this study, we use machine learn-ing for the automatic identification of datadeposition sentences in research articles.
Arti-cles containing deposition sentences are cor-rectly identified with 73% f-measure.
Theseresults show the potential impact of our meth-od for literature curation.1 BackgroundResearch in the biomedical domain aims at further-ing the knowledge of biological processes and im-proving human health.
Major contributionstowards this goal can be achieved by sharing theresults of research efforts with the community, in-cluding datasets produced in the course of the re-search work.
While such sharing behavior isencouraged by funding agencies and scientificjournals, recent work has shown that the ratio ofdata sharing is still modest compared to actual dataproduction.
For instance, Ochsner et al (2008)found the deposition rate of microarray data to beless than 50% for work published in 2007.Information about the declaration of data depo-sition in research papers can be used both for datacuration and for the analysis of emerging researchtrends.
Our long-term research interest is in as-sessing the value of deposition sentences for pre-dicting future trends of data production.
The initialstep of automatically identifying deposition sen-tences would then lead to an assessment of theneed for storage space of incoming data in publicrepositories.2 ObjectiveIn this study, we aim at automatically perform-ing a fine-grained identification of biological datadeposition sentences in biomedical text.
That is,we aim at identifying articles containing depositionsentences, extracting the specific sentences andcharacterizing the information contained in thesentences in terms of data type and deposition lo-cation (e.g.
database, accession numbers).3 Material and MethodsData deposition sentences .
A collection of sen-tences reporting the deposition of biological data(such as microarray data, protein structure, genesequences) in public repositories was compiledbased on previous work that we extended.
We takethese sentences as a primary method of identifyingarticles reporting on research that produced thekind of data deposited in public repositories.
(1)and (2) show examples of such sentences.
In con-trast, (3) and (4) contain elements related to datadeposition while focusing on other topics.
(1) The sequences reported in this paper have beendeposited in the GenBank database (acces sionnumbers AF034483 for susceptible strain RC688sand AF034484 for resistant strain HD198r).
(2) The microarray data were submitted to MIAMEx-press at the EMBL-EBI.
(3) Histone TAG Arrays are a repurposing of a micro-array design originally created to represent theTAG sequences in the Yeast Knockout collection(Yuan et al2005 NCBI GEO Accession NumberGPL1444).
(4) The primary sequence of native AcinetobacterCMO is identical to the gene sequence for chnBdeposited under accession number AB006902.103Sentence classification.
A Support Vector Ma-chine (SVM) classifier was built using a corpus of583 positive data deposition sentences and 578other negative sentences.
Several sets of featureswere tested, including the following: sentence to-kens, associated part-of-speech tags obtained usingMEDPOST1, relative position of the sentence inthe article, identification of elements related to datadeposition (data, deposition action, database, ac-cession number) obtained using a CRF model2.Article classification.
The automatic classificationof articles relied on sentence analysis.
The full textof articles was segmented into sentences, whichwere then scored by the sentence-level SVM clas-sifier described above.
An article is classified aspositive if its top-scored sentence is scored higherthan a threshold, which is predetermined as the 25thpercentile score for positive sentences in the train-ing set.Evaluation corpus .
A corpus composed of 670PubMed Central articles was used to evaluate arti-cle classification.
200 articles were considered as?positive?
for data deposition based on MEDLINEgold standard annotations in the [si] field used tocurate newly reported accession numbers.4 ResultsTable 1 shows the performance of selected SVMmodels for article classification on the test set.While differences were very small for cross-validation on the training set, they are emphasizedon the test set.Features P         R           FTokens, position, part-of-speech tags52%      56%     54%Token, position, CRF+,part-of-speech tags65%      58%     62%Tokens, position, CRF+/-,part-of-speech tags69%     78%     73%Table 1: Precision, Recall and F-measure of SVMmodels for article classification on test set.5 Discussion and ConclusionPortability of the method.
Although trainedmainly on microarray data deposition sentences,the method adapts well to the identification of oth-1 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/staff/lsmith/MedPost.html2 http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/er data deposition sentences, e.g.
gene sequences,protein coordinates.Comparison to other work.
Our approach is notdirectly comparable to any of the previous studies.At the article level, we perform an automatic clas-sification of articles containing data depositionsentences, in contrast with Oshner et al who per-formed a one-time manual classification.
Piwowaret alused machine learning and rule-based algo-rithms for article classification.
However, they re-lied on identifying the names of five predetermineddatabases in the full text of articles.
Our approachis generic and aiming at the automatic identifica-tion of any biological data deposition in any publicrepository.
Furthermore, our approach also re-trieves specific data deposition sentences wheredata and deposition location are identified.
At thesentence level, this is also different from the classi-fication of databank accession number sentencesperformed by Kim et al (2010) in two ways: first,we focus on retrieving sentences containing acces-sion numbers if they are deposition sentences (vs.data re-use, etc.)
and second, we are also interestedin retrieving data deposition sentences that do notcontain accession numbers.Error analysis .
Almost half of the articles clas-sified as containing a deposition sentence by ourmethod but not by the gold standard were found toindeed contain a deposition sentence.Conclusion.
These results show the potentialimpact of our method for literature curation.
Inaddition, it provides a robust tool for future workassessing the need for storage space of incomingdata in public repositories.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by the Intramural Re-search Program of the NIH, NLM.ReferencesJongwoo Kim, Daniel Le, Georges R. Thoma.
Na?vebayes and SVM classifiers for classifying databankaccession number sentences from online biomedicalarticles.
Proc.
SPIE 2010 (7534): 7534OU-OU8Scott A. Ochsner, Davd L Steffen, Christian J StoeckertJr, Neil J. McKenna.
Much room for improvementin deposition rates of expression microarray da-tasets.
Nat Methods.
2008 Dec;5(12):991.Heather A. Piwowar, Wendy W. Chapman.
Identifyingdata sharing in biomedical literature.AMIA AnnuSymp Proc.
2008 Nov 6:596-600.104
