Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies, pages 148?149,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 30, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsWorkshop on Speech & Language Processing for Assistive TechnologiesDemo Session1  ?How was School today...??
A PrototypeSystem that uses a Mobile Phone to Sup-port Personal Narrative for Childrenwith Complex CommunicationRolf Black1, Annalu Waller1, Ehud Reiter2, NavaTintarev2, Joseph Reddington2(1University of Dundee, 2University of Aberdeen)We will show a sensor based mobile phone proto-type that supports personal narrative for childrenwith complex communication needs.
We willdemonstrate how the phone is used to capturevoice recordings and information about location,people and objects using RFID tags and QR stick-ers.
The challenging environment of a specialschool for prototype testing will be discussed usingreal life experiences.2 The PhonicStick: Interactive access tosounds for people with Complex Com-munication NeedsHa Trinh, Annalu Waller, Rolf Black,James Bennet(University of Dundee)The PhonicStick is a new sound-based speech ge-nerating device which enables nonspeaking indi-viduals to access 42 English sounds and blendsounds into spoken words.
The device can poten-tially be used both as a literacy learning tool and aninteractive communication aid for people withliteracy difficulties.
We will discuss how NLPtechnologies, such as speech synthesis and predic-tive techniques, are utilised to improve the usabili-ty of the device.3 Toby Churchill LtdDavid Mason1, James Bennet2(1TLC, 2University of Dundee)Lightwriter?
SL40.
We will show one of the newSL40 Connect mobile phone enabled Lightwri-ters?.
Lightwriters?
are portable text-to-speechdevices with dual displays, one facing the user anda second out-facing display allowing natural face-to-face communication.
They are operated by key-board and use a fast prediction system based on theuser?s own vocabulary.
A certain degree of literacyis required to operate a Lightwriter?.Lightwriter?
SL40 with PhonicStick.
We willshow an SL40 development unit that is running aversion of Dundee University?s PhonicStick soft-ware.
This project is an ongoing collaborationwith the Assistive and Healthcare Technologiesgroup in the School of Computing at Dundee.VIVOCA.
We will be describing a project withpartners including the University of Sheffield andthe Assistive Technology team at Barnsley DistrictGeneral Hospital.
The project is developing andevaluating a novel device for supporting the com-munication needs of people with severe speechimpairment that will address the limitations of thecurrent technology.
It builds on previous work bythis team (funded by Neat) which has establisheduser requirements and identified the technical de-velopments required.
The device, a Voice InputVoice Output Communication Aid (or VIVOCA)will take as input the unintelligible disorderedspeech of the users.1484 SceneTalker: An Utterance-Based AACSystem PrototypeTimothy Walsh1, Jan Bedrosian2, Linda Hoag3,Kathleen F. McCoy1(1University of Delaware; 2Western Michigan Uni-versity, 3Kansas State University)SceneTalker is a prototype utterance-based aug-mentative and alternative communication systemthat uses scripts (and scenes within scripts) to or-ganize prestored messages for highly routine goal-oriented public situations (such as going to a res-taurant).
Many aspects of the system design areinspired by a series of experiments on using pres-tored utterances in public goal-oriented situationswhen the prestored message did not exactly matchwhat the user wanted to say.
In addition to thescript structures, we show system messages thatare not anticipated to be perfect/complete for whatis needed and strategies of use with stored messag-es that anticipate the communication partner?sfollow-up to utterances (adjacency pairs).5 SIGHT SystemCharles Greenbacker1, Seniz Demir3, Peng Wu1,Sandra Carberry1, Stephanie Elzer2, Kathleen F.McCoy1(1University of Delaware; 2Millersville University,4T?bitak Bilgem, Turkey)The SIGHT system is intended to give people withvisual impairments access to information graphics(e.g., bar charts) found in popular media.
The sys-tem generates a textual summary that provides thechart?s overall intended message and additionalsalient propositions conveyed by the graphic.149
