Proceedings of the 2011 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 105?113,Portland, Oregon, USA, June 23-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsFrom Pathways to Biomolecular Events: Opportunities and ChallengesTomoko Ohta?
Sampo Pyysalo?
Jun?ichi Tsujii?
?Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan?Microsoft Research Asia, Beijing, China{okap,smp}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp, jtsujii@microsoft.comAbstractThe construction of pathways is a major fo-cus of present-day biology.
Typical pathwaysinvolve large numbers of entities of varioustypes whose associations are represented asreactions involving arbitrary numbers of reac-tants, outputs and modifiers.
Until recently,few information extraction approaches werecapable of resolving the level of detail in textrequired to support the annotation of suchpathway representations.
We argue that eventrepresentations of the type popularized by theBioNLP Shared Task are potentially applica-ble for pathway annotation support.
As a steptoward realizing this possibility, we study themapping from a formal pathway representa-tion to the event representation in order toidentify remaining challenges in event extrac-tion for pathway annotation support.
Follow-ing initial analysis, we present a detailed studyof protein association and dissociation reac-tions, proposing a new event class and repre-sentation for the latter and, as a step towardits automatic extraction, introduce a manu-ally annotated resource incorporating the typeamong a total of nearly 1300 annotated eventinstances.
As a further practical contribu-tion, we introduce the first pathway-to-eventconversion software for SBML/CellDesignerpathways and discuss the opportunities arisingfrom the ability to convert the substantial ex-isting pathway resources to events.1 IntroductionFor most of the previous decade of biomedical in-formation extraction (IE), efforts have focused onfoundational tasks such as named entity detectionand their database normalization (Krallinger et al,2008) and simple IE targets, most commonly bi-nary entity relations representing associations suchas protein-protein interactions (Pyysalo et al, 2008;Tikk et al, 2010).
In recent years, an increasingnumber of resources and methods pursuing more de-tailed representations of extracted information arebecoming available (Pyysalo et al, 2007; Kim et al,2008; Thompson et al, 2009; Bjo?rne et al, 2010).The main thrust of this move toward structured, fine-grained information extraction falls under the head-ing of event extraction (Ananiadou et al, 2010), anapproach popularized and represented in particularby the BioNLP Shared Task (BioNLP ST) (Kim etal., 2009a; Kim et al, 2011).While a detailed representation of extracted in-formation on biomolecular events has several po-tential applications ranging from semantic search todatabase curation support (Ananiadou et al, 2010),the number of practical applications making use ofthis technology has arguably so far been rather lim-ited.
In this study, we pursue in particular the op-portunities that event extraction holds for pathwayannotation support,1 arguing that the match between1Throughout this paper, we call the projected task pathwayannotation support.
There is no established task with this label,and we do not envision this to be a specific single task.
Rather,we intend the term to refer to a set of tasks where informationextraction/text mining methods are applied in some role to con-tribute directly to pathway curation, including, for example, theidentification of specific texts in the literature relevant to anno-tated reactions, the automatic suggestion of further entities orreactions to add to a pathway, or even the fully automatic gen-eration of entire pathways from scratch.105representations that biologists employ to capture re-actions between biomolecules in pathways and theevent representation of the BioNLP ST task makespathway-oriented applications a potential ?killer ap-plication?
for event extraction technology.The fit between these representations is not ac-cidental ?
the design of the BioNLP ST event rep-resentation has been informed by that of popularpathway models ?
nor is it novel to suggest to sup-port pathway extraction through information meth-ods in general (see e.g.
(Rzhetsky et al, 2004))or through event extraction specifically (Oda et al,2008).
However, our study differs from previousefforts in two key aspects.
First, instead of beingdriven by information extraction and defining a rep-resentation fitting its results, we specifically adoptthe perspective and model of a widely applied stan-dard database representation and proceed from thepathway to events in text.
Second, while previouswork on event extraction for pathway annotation hasbeen exploratory in nature or has otherwise had lim-ited practical impact, we introduce and release afirst software implementation of a conversion froma standard pathway format to the event format, thusmaking a large amount of pathway data available foruse in event extraction and taking a concrete steptoward reliable, routine mappings between the tworepresentations.2 Representations and ResourcesBefore proceeding to consider the mapping betweenthe two, we first briefly introduce the pathway andevent representations in focus in this study and theapplied pathway resources.2.1 PathwaysThe biomolecular curation community has createdand made available an enormous amount of path-way resources: for example, as of April 2011, thePathguide pathway resource list2 includes referencesto 325 pathway-related resources ?
many of whichare themselves pathway databases containing hun-dreds of individual models.
These resources in-volve a formidable variety of different, largely inde-pendently developed formats and representations ofwhich only few pairs have tools supporting mutual2http://www.pathguide.org/conversion.
To address the challenges of interoper-ability that this diversity implies, a number of stan-dardization efforts for pathway representations havebeen introduced.In this work, we consider two widely adoptedpathway representation formats: Systems Biol-ogy Markup Language (SBML)3 (Hucka et al,2003) and Biological Pathway Exchange (BioPAX)4(Demir et al, 2010).
SBML is an XML-basedmachine-readable data exchange format that sup-ports a formal mathematical representation of chem-ical reactions (including e.g.
kinetic parameters),allowing biochemical simulation.
BioPAX is anRDF/OWL-based standard language to representbio-molecular and cellular networks designed to en-able data integration, exchange, visualization andanalysis.
Despite significantly different choices instorage format, the represented information contentof the two is broadly compatible.
In the follow-ing, we refer to established correspondences andmappings when relating the two (see e.g.
(Mi andThomas, 2009)).As an interchange format aimed to support a largevariety of specific representations, the SBML stan-dard itself does not define a fixed set of types ofphysical entities or biochemical reactions.
However,the standard defines an extension mechanism allow-ing additional information, including such types, tobe defined.
As specific, fixed types with establishedsemantics are a requirement for practical conversionbetween the different representations, we thus relyin this work not only on SBML core, but also a min-imal set of the extensions introduced by the popu-lar CellDesigner pathway modeling tool (Funahashiet al, 2008).
In the following, we assume through-out the availability of CellDesigner extensions whendiscussing SBML features.For pathway data, in this study we use the fullset of pathways contained in the Panther and Payaopathway repositories in SBML form.
Panther (Pro-tein ANalysis THrough Evolutionary Relationships)is a gene function-based classification system thathosts a large collection of pathways.
The Pantherrepository consists of 165 pathways, including 153signaling and 12 metabolic pathways.
All pathways3http://sbml.org4http://www.biopax.org106Figure 1: Illustration of the event representation.were drawn on CellDesigner by manual curationand thus include CellDesigner SBML extensions(Mi and Thomas, 2009).
Payao is a community-based SBML model tagging platform (Matsuoka etal., 2010) that allows a community to share models,tag and add comments, and search relevant literature(Kemper et al, 2010).
Currently, 28 models are reg-istered in Payao.
As in Panther, all Payao pathwaysinclude CellDesigner extensions.2.2 Event RepresentationThe application of event representations in biomed-ical IE is a relatively recent development, follow-ing the introduction of corpus resources annotatingstructured, n-ary associations of entities with de-tailed types (Pyysalo et al, 2007; Kim et al, 2008;Thompson et al, 2009)) and popularized in particu-lar by the BioNLP Shared Task (BioNLP ST) events(Kim et al, 2009b; Kim et al, 2011).
In this pa-per, we use event in the BioNLP ST sense, to referspecifically to the representation where each eventis assigned a type from a fixed ontology, bound to aspecific expression in text stating its occurrence (thetrigger or text binding), and associated with an ar-bitrary number of participants (similarly text-boundentities or other events), for which the roles in whichthey are involved in the event are defined from afixed small inventory of event argument types (e.g.Theme, Cause, Site).
These concepts are illustratedin Figure 1.3 Analysis of Pathway-Event MappingWe next present an analysis of the relationship be-tween the two representations, considering featuresrequired from IE systems for efficient support ofpathway annotation support.We assume throughout that the target on the path-way side is restricted to the broad, central biologi-cal content of pathways, excluding information onlyrelated to e.g.
simulation support or pathway visual-ization/layout.Figure 2: Illustration of a generalized pathway reaction.3.1 Top-level conceptsBoth SBML and BioPAX involve two (largely com-parable) top-level concepts that form the core of therepresentation: entity (species/physical entity) andreaction (interaction).
In the following we focus pri-marily on entities and reactions, deferring consider-ation of detailed concepts such as modification stateand compartment localization to Section 3.3.The concept of a reaction in the considered path-way representations centrally involves three sets ofentities: reactants, products, and modifiers.
As thenames suggest, the reaction produces the set of prod-uct entities from the reactant entities and is affectedby the modifiers.
Figure 2 shows an illustration of ageneralized reaction.
Pathway reactions find a rea-sonably good analogy in events in the event repre-sentation.
While the event representation does notdifferentiate ?reactants?
from ?products?
in theseterms, the roles assigned to event participants al-low comparable interpretation.
There is no singleconcept in the event representation directly compa-rable to reaction modifiers.
However, the semanticsof specific modification types (see Section 3.3) cor-respond broadly to those of regulation in the eventrepresentation, suggesting that modification be rep-resented using a separate event of the appropriatetype with the modifying entities participating in theCause role (Kim et al, 2008).
Figure 3 illustrates theevent structure proposed to correspond to the reac-tion of Figure 2, with the added assumptions that thereaction and modification types (unspecified in Fig-ure 2) are Association (BioPAX:ComplexAssembly)and Modulation (BioPAX:Control).107Figure 3: Illustration of a generalized event structure with four entities and two events (REGULATION and BINDING).Note that the text is only present as filler to satisfy the requirement that events are bound to specific expressions intext.
The Product role is not a standard role in event representation but newly proposed in this study.Pathway EventCellDesigner BioPAX ST?09 ST?11 GENIAProtein Protein Protein Protein ProteinRNA RNA Protein Protein RNAAntiSenseRNA RNA Protein Protein RNAGene DNA Protein Protein DNASimple molecule Small molecule - Chemical Inorganic compoundIon Small molecule - Chemical Inorganic compoundDrug PhysicalEntity - Chemical Inorganic compoundHetero/homodimer Complex - - Protein complexTable 1: Entity type comparison between pathways and events.The mapping of top-level concepts that we con-sider thus unifies physical entities in pathways withthe entities of the BioNLP ST representation, andpathway reaction with event.5To be able to efficiently support (some aspect of)pathway annotation through IE, the applied extrac-tion model should be able, for both entities and reac-tions, to 1) recognize mentions of all relevant typesof entity/reaction and 2) differentiate between en-tity/reaction types at the same or finer granularity asthe pathway representation.
For example, an IE sys-tem that does not detect mentions of protein com-plexes cannot efficiently support aspects of pathwayannotation that involve this type; a system that de-tects proteins and complexes with no distinction be-tween the two will be similarly limited.
In the fol-lowing, we consider entity and reaction types sep-arately to determine to what extent these require-ments are filled by presently available resources forevent extraction, in particular the GENIA corpus(Kim et al, 2008) and the BioNLP ST 2009 (Kimet al, 2009b) and 2011 corpora.5Pathways and IE/text mining use many of the same termswith (sometimes subtly) different meanings.
We use largely IEterminology, using e.g.
entity instead of species (SBML) andentity type instead of physical entity class (BioPAX) / speciestype (SBML) For the pathway associations, we have adoptedreaction (SBML term) in favor of interaction (BioPAX).
Withevent, we refer to the BioNLP ST sense of the word; we makeno use of the SBML ?event?
concept.3.2 EntitiesTable 1 shows a comparison of the primary entitytypes between SBML/CellDesigner, BioPAX, andthe event representations.
There is significant dif-ference in the resolution of gene and gene producttypes between the pathway representations and thatapplied in ST?09 and ST?11: while both pathwayrepresentations and the GENIA corpus differenti-ate the DNA, RNA and protein forms, the STs foldthe three types into a single one, PROTEIN.6 TheCHEMICAL type defined in ST?11 (ID task) overlapslargely with BioPAX SMALL MOLECULE, a typethat SBML/CellDesigner further splits into two spe-cific types, and further partly covers the definition ofthe SBML/CellDesigner type Drug.
The same holds(with somewhat less specificity) for GENIA INOR-GANIC COMPOUND.
Finally, although annotated inGENIA, the category of protein complexes has nocorrespondence among the entities considered in theBioNLP ST representation.Thus, information extraction systems applyingthe core BioNLP ST entity types will entirely lackcoverage for protein complexes and will not be able6While the term PROTEIN appears to suggest that the classconsists only of protein forms, these entities are in fact anno-tated in the BioNLP ST data according to the GENIA gene/geneproduct guidelines (Ohta et al, 2009) and thus include alsoDNA and RNA forms.
The type could arguably more accuratelybe named GENE OR GENE PRODUCT.108Pathway EventCellDesigner BioPAX ST?09 ST?11 GENIAState transition BiochemicalReaction (see Table 3)Truncation BiochemicalReaction Catabolism Catabolism CatabolismTranscription BiochemicalReaction Transcription Transcription TranscriptionTranslation BiochemicalReaction - - TranslationAssociation ComplexAssembly Binding Binding BindingDissociation ComplexAssembly - - -Transport Transport w/reaction Localization Localization LocalizationDegradation Degradation Catabolism Catabolism CatabolismCatalysis Catalysis Positive regulation Positive regulation Positive regulationPhysical stimulation Control Positive regulation Positive regulation Positive regulationModulation Control Regulation Regulation RegulationTrigger Control Positive regulation Positive regulation Positive regulationInhibition Control Negative regulation Negative regulation Negative regulationTable 2: Reaction type comparison between pathways and events.to fully resolve the detailed type of gene and geneproduct types applied in the pathway representa-tions.
While these distinctions exist in the full GE-NIA corpus, it has not been frequently applied inevent extraction in its complete form and is un-likely to be adopted over the widely applied STresources.
Finally, none of the event representa-tions differentiate the pathway small molecule/drugtypes.
We discuss the implications of these ambigu-ities in detail below.
By contrast, we note that bothSBML/CellDesigner and BioPAX entity types coverthe scope of the major BioNLP ST types and havecomparable or finer granularity in each case.3.3 ReactionsTable 2 shows a comparison between the reactiontypes of the two considered pathway representationsand those of the BioNLP ST event representation.The full semantics of the generic reaction type Statetransition (BioPAX: BiochemicalReaction) cannotbe resolved from the type alone; we defer discussionof this type.Contrary to the event types, we find that for re-action types even the least comprehensive BioNLPST?09 event representation has high coverage of thepathway reaction types as well as a largely compa-rable level of granularity in its types.
While neitherof the BioNLP ST models defines a TRANSLATIONtype, the adoption of the GENIA representation ?matching that for TRANSCRIPTION ?
for this simpleand relatively rare event type would likely be rela-tively straightforward.
A more substantial omissionin all of the event representations is the lack of aDissociation event type.
As dissociation is the ?re-verse?
reaction of (protein) BINDING and central tomany pathways, its omission from the event modelis both surprising as well as potentially limiting forapplications of event extraction to pathway annota-tion support.The detailed resolution of pathway reactions pro-vided by the event types has implications on theimpact of the ambiguity noted between the sin-gle type covering genes and gene products in theevent representation as opposed to the distinctDNA/RNA/protein types applied in the pathways.Arguably, for many practical cases the specific typeof an entity of the broad gene/gene product type isunambiguously resolved by the events it participatesin: for example, any gene/gene product that is mod-ified through phosphorylation (or similar reaction)is necessarily a protein.7 Similarly, only proteinswill be involved in e.g.
localization between nucleusand cytoplasm.
On a more detailed level, BIND-ING events resolves their arguments in part throughtheir Site argument: binding to a promoter impliesDNA, while binding to a C-terminus implies pro-tein.
Thus, we can (with some reservation) forwardthe argument that it is not necessary to disambiguateall gene/gene product mentions on the entity levelfor pathway annotation support, and that success-ful event extraction will provide disambiguation incases where the distinction matters.7DNA methylation notwithstanding; the BioNLP ST?11 EPItask demonstrated that protein and DNA methylation can be dis-ambiguated on the event type level without entity type distinc-tions.109Pathway EventSBML/CellDesigner ST?09 ST?11 GENIAin:Compartment1 ?
in:Compartment2 Localization Localization Localizationresidue:state:?
?
residue:state:Phosphorylated Phosphorylation Phosphorylation Phosphorylationresidue:state:Phosphorylated ?
residue:state:?
- Dephosphorylation Dephosphorylationresidue:state:?
?
residue:state:Methylated - Methylation Methylationresidue:state:Methylated ?
residue:state:?
- Demethylation Demethylationresidue:state:?
?
residue:state:Ubiquitinated - Ubiquitination Ubiquitinationresidue:state:Ubiquitinated ?
residue:state:?
- Deubiquitination Deubiquitinationspecies:state:inactive ?
species:state:active Positive regulation Positive regulation Positive regulationspecies:state:active ?
species:state:inactive Negative regulation Negative regulation Negative regulationTable 3: Interpretation and comparison of state transitions.Finally, the pathway representations de-fine generic reaction types (State transi-tion/BiochemicalReaction) that do not alonehave specific interpretations.
To resolve the eventinvolved in these reactions it is necessary to com-pare the state of the reactants against that of thematching products.
Table 3 shows how specific statetransitions map to event types (this detailed compar-ison was performed only for SBML/CellDesignerpathways).
We find here a good correspondence fortransitions affecting a single aspect of entity state.While generic pathway transitions can change anynumber of such aspects, we suggest that decomposi-tion into events where one event corresponds to onepoint change in state is a reasonable approximationof the biological interpretation: for example, a reac-tion changing one residue state into Methylated andanother into Phosphorylated would map into twoevents, METHYLATION and PHOSPHORYLATION.In summary of the preceding comparison of thecore pathway and event representations, we foundthat in addition to additional ambiguity in e.g.
geneand gene product types, the popular BioNLP ST rep-resentations lack a protein complex type and furtherthat none of the considered event models define a(protein) dissociation event.
To address these latteromissions, we present in the following section a casestudy of dissociation reactions as a step toward theirautomatic extraction.
We further noted that pathwaytypes cover the event types well and have similar orhigher granularity in nearly all instances.
This sug-gests to us that mapping from the pathway repre-sentation to events is more straightforward than viceversa.
To follow up on these opportunities, we intro-duce such a mapping in Section 5, in following thecorrespondences outlined above.4 Protein Association and DissociationIn the analysis presented above, we noted a major re-action type defined in both considered pathway rep-resentations that had no equivalent in the event rep-resentation: dissociation.
In this section, we presenta study of this reaction type and its expression asstatements in text through the creation of event-styleannotation for dissociation statements.4.1 Target dataAmong the large set of pathways available, we choseto focus on the Payao mTOR pathway (Caron et al,2010) because it is a large, recently introduced path-way with high-quality annotations that involves nu-merous dissociation reactions.
The Payao pathwaysare further annotated with detailed literature refer-ences, providing a PubMed citation for nearly eachentity and reaction in the pathway.
To acquire textsfor event annotation, we followed the references inthe pathway annotation and retrieved the full set ofPubMed abstracts associated with the pathway, over400 in total.
We then annotated 60 of these abstractsthat were either marked as relevant to dissociationevents in the pathway or were found to include dis-sociation statements in manual analysis.
These ab-stracts were not included in any previously anno-tated domain corpus.
Further, as we aimed specifi-cally to be able to identify event structures for whichno previous annotations exist, we could not rely on(initial) automatic annotation.4.2 Annotation guidelinesWe performed exhaustive manual entity and eventannotation in the event representation for the se-lected 60 abstracts.
For entity annotation, we ini-110tially considered adopting the gene/gene product an-notation guidelines (Ohta et al, 2009) applied inthe BioNLP ST 2009 as well as in the majorityof the 2011 tasks.
However, the requirement ofthese guidelines to mark only specific gene/proteinnames would exclude a substantial number of theentities marked in the pathway, as many refer togene/protein families or groups instead of specificindividual genes or proteins.
We thus chose to adoptthe pathway annotation itself for defining the scopeof our entity annotation: we generated a listing of allthe names appearing in the target pathway and an-notated their mentions, extrapolating from this richset of examples to guide us in decisions on how toannotate references to entities not appearing in thepathway.
For event annotation, we adapted the GE-NIA event corpus annotation guidelines (Kim et al,2008), further developing a specific representationand guidelines for annotating dissociation eventsbased on an early iteration of exploratory annotation.Annotation was performed by a single biologyPhD with extensive experience in event annotation(TO).
While we could thus not directly assess inter-annotator consistency, we note that our recent com-parable efforts have been evaluated by comparingindependently created annotations at approximately90% F-score for entity annotations and approxi-mately 80% F-score for event annotations (BioNLPShared Task primary evaluation criteria) (Pyysalo etal., 2011; Ohta et al, 2011).4.3 Representing Association and DissociationBased on our analysis of 107 protein dissociationstatements annotated in the corpus and a correspond-ing study of the ?reverse?, statements of protein as-sociation in the corpus, we propose the followingextensions for the BioNLP ST event representation.First, the introduction of the event type DISSOCIA-TION, taking as its primary argument a single Themeidentifying a participating entity of the type COM-PLEX.
Second, we propose the new role type Prod-uct, in the annotation of DISSOCIATION events anoptional (secondary) argument identifying the PRO-TEIN entities that are released in the dissociationevent.
This argument should be annotated (or ex-tracted) only when explicitly stated in text.
Third,for symmetry in the representation, more detail inextracted information, and to have a representationFigure 4: Examples annotated with the proposed eventrepresentation for DISSOCIATION and BINDING eventswith the proposed Product role marking formed complex.Item CountAbstract 60Word 11960Protein 1483Complex 201Event 1284Table 4: Annotation statistics.more compatible with the pathway representationfor protein associations, we propose to extend therepresentation for BINDING, adding Product as anoptional argument identifying a COMPLEX partici-pant in BINDING events marking statements of com-plex formation stating the complex.
The extendedevent representations are illustrated in Figure 4.4.4 Annotation statisticsTable 4 presents the statistics of the created annota-tion.
While covering a relatively modest number ofabstracts, the annotation density is very high, relat-ing perhaps in part to the fact that many of the ref-erenced documents are reviews condensing a wealthof information into the abstract.5 Pathway-to-event conversionAs an additional practical contribution and out-come of our analysis of the mapping from the path-way representation to the event representation, wecreated software implementing this mapping fromSBML with CellDesigner extensions to the eventrepresentation.
This conversion otherwise follows111the conventions of the event model, but lacks spe-cific text bindings for the mentioned entities andevent expressions (triggers).
To maximize the appli-cability of the conversion, we chose to forgo e.g.
theCellDesigner plugin architecture and to instead cre-ate an entirely standalone software based on pythonand libxml2.
We tested this conversion on the 165Panther and 28 Payao pathways to assure its robust-ness.Conversion from pathways into the event repre-sentation opens up a number of opportunities, suchas the ability to directly query large-scale eventrepositories (e.g.
(Bjo?rne et al, 2010)) for specificpathway reactions.
For pathways where reactionsare marked with literature references, conversionfurther allows event annotations relevant to specificdocuments to be created automatically, sparing man-ual annotation costs.
While such event annotationswill not be bound to specific text expressions, theycould be used through the application of techniquessuch as distant supervision (Mintz et al, 2009).
As afirst attempt, the conversion introduced in this workis limited in a number of ways, but we hope it canserve as a starting point for both wider adoptionof pathway resources for event extraction and fur-ther research into accurate conversions between thetwo.
The conversion software, SBML-to-event,is freely available for research purposes.6 Discussion and ConclusionsOver the last decade, the bio-community has in-vested enormous efforts in the construction of de-tailed models of the function of a large variety of bi-ological systems in the form of pathways.
These ef-forts toward building systemic understanding of thefunctioning of organisms remain a central focus ofpresent-day biology, and their support through infor-mation extraction and text mining perhaps the great-est potential contribution that the biomedical naturallanguage processing community could make towardthe broader bio-community.We have argued that while recent developmentsin BioNLP are highly promising for approachingpractical support of pathway annotation through in-formation extraction, the BioNLP community hasnot yet made the most of the substantial resourcesin the form of existing pathways and that pursu-ing mapping from pathways to the event represen-tation might be both more realistic and more fruit-ful than the other way around.
As a first step inwhat we hope will lead to broadened understand-ing of the different perspectives, communication be-tween the communities, and better uses resources,we have introduced a fully automatic mapping fromSBML/CellDesigner pathways into the BioNLP ST-style event representation.
As a first effort this map-ping has many limitations and imperfections that wehope the BioNLP community will take as a chal-lenge to do better.Noting in analysis that dissociation reactions arenot covered in previously proposed event represen-tations, we also presented a detailed case study fo-cusing on statements describing protein associationand dissociation reactions in PubMed abstracts rel-evant to the mTOR pathway.
Based on exploratoryannotation, we proposed a novel event class DIS-SOCIATION, thus taking a step toward covering thisarguably most significant omission in the event rep-resentation.The pathway-bound event annotations createdin this study, exhaustive annotation of all rel-evant entities and events in 60 abstracts, con-sist in total of annotation identifying nearly1500 protein and 200 complex mentions andover 1200 events involving these entities in text.These annotations are freely available for usein research at http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Hiroaki Kitano, Yukiko Mat-suoka and Samik Ghosh of the Systems Biology In-stitute for their generosity in providing their timeand expertise in helping us understand the CellDe-signer and SBML pathway representations.
Thiswork was partially supported by Grant-in-Aid forSpecially Promoted Research (MEXT, Japan).ReferencesSophia Ananiadou, Sampo Pyysalo, Jun?ichi Tsujii, andDouglas B. Kell.
2010.
Event extraction for sys-tems biology by text mining the literature.
Trends inBiotechnology, 28(7):381?390.112Jari Bjo?rne, Filip Ginter, Sampo Pyysalo, Jun?ichi Tsujii,and Tapio Salakoski.
2010.
Complex event extractionat PubMed scale.
Bioinformatics, 26(12):i382?390.E.
Caron, S. Ghosh, Y. Matsuoka, D. Ashton-Beaucage,M.
Therrien, S. Lemieux, C. Perreault, P.P.
Roux, andH.
Kitano.
2010.
A comprehensive map of the mTORsignaling network.
Molecular Systems Biology, 6(1).E.
Demir, M.P.
Cary, S. Paley, K. Fukuda, C. Lemer,I.
Vastrik, G. Wu, P. D?Eustachio, C. Schaefer, J. Lu-ciano, et al 2010.
The BioPAX community stan-dard for pathway data sharing.
Nature biotechnology,28(9):935?942.A.
Funahashi, Y. Matsuoka, A. Jouraku, M. Morohashi,N.
Kikuchi, and H. Kitano.
2008.
CellDesigner 3.5:a versatile modeling tool for biochemical networks.Proceedings of the IEEE, 96(8):1254?1265.M.
Hucka, A. Finney, H. M. Sauro, H. Bolouri, J. C.Doyle, and H Kitano et al 2003.
The systems biol-ogy markup language (SBML): a medium for repre-sentation and exchange of biochemical network mod-els.
Bioinformatics, 19(4):524?531.B.
Kemper, T. Matsuzaki, Y. Matsuoka, Y. Tsuruoka,H.
Kitano, S. Ananiadou, and J. Tsujii.
2010.
Path-Text: a text mining integrator for biological pathwayvisualizations.
Bioinformatics, 26(12):i374.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2008.Corpus annotation for mining biomedical events fromliterature.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(10).Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009a.
Overview ofBioNLP?09 shared task on event extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of BioNLP 2009 Shared Task.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009b.
Overviewof BioNLP?09 Shared Task on Event Extraction.In Proceedings of Natural Language Processing inBiomedicine (BioNLP) NAACL 2009 Workshop, pages1?9.Jin-Dong Kim, Sampo Pyysalo, Tomoko Ohta, RobertBossy, Ngan Nguyen, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2011.Overview of BioNLP Shared Task 2011.
In Proceed-ings of BioNLP 2011.M.
Krallinger, A. Morgan, L. Smith, F. Leitner, L. Tan-abe, J. Wilbur, L. Hirschman, and A. Valencia.2008.
Evaluation of text-mining systems for biology:overview of the Second BioCreative community chal-lenge.
Genome biology, 9(Suppl 2):S1.Y.
Matsuoka, S. Ghosh, N. Kikuchi, and H. Kitano.
2010.Payao: a community platform for SBML pathwaymodel curation.
Bioinformatics, 26(10):1381.H.
Mi and P. Thomas.
2009.
PANTHER pathway: anontology-based pathway database coupled with dataanalysis tools.
Methods Mol.
Biol, 563:123?140.Mike Mintz, Steven Bills, Rion Snow, and Daniel Juraf-sky.
2009.
Distant supervision for relation extractionwithout labeled data.
In Proceedings of ACL?09, pages1003?1011.Kanae Oda, Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, DaisukeOkanohara, Takuya Matsuzaki, Yuka Tateisi, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2008.
New challenges for text min-ing: Mapping between text and manually curated path-ways.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(Suppl 3):S5.Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, Sampo Pyysalo, YueWang, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
IncorporatingGENETAG-style annotation to GENIA corpus.
InProceedings of BioNLP?09, pages 106?107.Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2011.Overview of the Epigenetics and Post-translationalModifications (EPI) task of BioNLP Shared Task2011.
In Proceedings of BioNLP 2011.Sampo Pyysalo, Filip Ginter, Juho Heimonen, JariBjo?rne, Jorma Boberg, Jouni Ja?rvinen, and TapioSalakoski.
2007.
BioInfer: A corpus for informationextraction in the biomedical domain.
BMC Bioinfor-matics, 8(50).Sampo Pyysalo, Antti Airola, Juho Heimonen, and JariBjo?rne.
2008.
Comparative analysis of five protein-protein interaction corpora.
BMC Bioinformatics,9(Suppl.
3):S6.Sampo Pyysalo, Tomoko Ohta, Rafal Rak, Dan Sul-livan, Chunhong Mao, Chunxia Wang, Bruno So-bral, Jun?ichi Tsujii, and Sophia Ananiadou.
2011.Overview of the Infectious Diseases (ID) task ofBioNLP Shared Task 2011.
In Proceedings of BioNLP2011.Andrey Rzhetsky, Ivan Iossifov, Tomohiro Koike,Michael Krauthammer, Pauline Kra, Mitzi Morris,Hong Yu, Pablo Ariel Duboue?, Wubin Weng, W. JohnWilbur, Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, and Carol Fried-man.
2004.
GeneWays: A system for extracting, ana-lyzing, visualizing, and integrating molecular pathwaydata.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 37(1):43?53.Paul Thompson, Syed Iqbal, John McNaught, and SophiaAnaniadou.
2009.
Construction of an annotatedcorpus to support biomedical information extraction.BMC Bioinformatics, 10(1):349.Domonkos Tikk, Philippe Thomas, Peter Palaga, Jo?rgHakenberg, and Ulf Leser.
2010.
A comprehen-sive benchmark of kernel methods to extract protein-protein interactions from literature.
PLoS ComputBiol, 6(7):e1000837, 07.113
