Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 76?80,Portland, Oregon, 24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsEffect of Word Complexity on L2 Vocabulary LearningKevin Dela RosaLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PAkdelaros@cs.cmu.eduMaxine EskenaziLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PAmax@cs.cmu.eduAbstractResearch has shown that a number offactors, such as maturational constraints,previous language background, andattention, can have an effect on L2acquisition.
One related issue that remainsto be explored is what factors make anindividual word more easily learned.
Inthis study we propose that wordcomplexity, on both the phonetic andsemantic levels, affect L2 vocabularylearning.
Two studies showed that wordswith simple grapheme-to-phoneme ratioswere easier to learn than morephonetically complex words, and thatwords with two or fewer word senseswere easier to learn that those with threeor more.1 IntroductionThere is much computer-assisted language learning(CALL) literature that explores effective methodsof teaching vocabulary.
In recent studies conductedusing the REAP system, which finds documentsfrom the internet to teach vocabulary, we haveshown that speech synthesis reinforces written textfor learning in reading activities (Dela Rosa et al,2010), and we have also shown that context-sensitive dictionary definitions afford bettervocabulary learning for L2 language students (DelaRosa and Eskenazi, 2011).One issue that remains to be explored in thiscontext: determining what factors make anindividual word easier to learn.
We propose thatword complexity, on both the phonetic andsemantic levels, can affect how easily an L2vocabulary word can be learned.In this paper we first discuss past work onfactors that impact vocabulary acquisition inintelligent tutoring environments, and then explorework on defining the complexity of a word withrespect to vocabulary learning.
Next we describetwo classroom studies we conducted with ESLcollege students to test the effect of wordcomplexity on L2 vocabulary learning.
Finally weexamine our results and suggest future researchdirections.2 BackgroundMany studies have been conducted to investigatethe relationship between different variables andsecond language learning.
For example, the age ofthe foreign language learner is often pointed to as amajor factor in determining whether an individualwill be successful in learning a new language(Marinova-Todd, 2000).In the domain of L2 vocabulary instruction,researchers have shown that factors such asmaturational constraints, attention, previouslanguage background, and order of acquisition, canall affect L2 vocabulary acquisition (Oxford andScarcella, 1994).
Additionally, another factor thataffects L2 vocabulary learning is the number ofexposures of a practice item that a student receivesduring learning activities.
In a study on the effectsof spacing and retention of vocabulary pairs,Pavlik and Anderson (2005) showed that each timean item is practiced, it receives an increment of76strength, but these increments decay as a powerfunction of time.
Furthermore, it is generallyaccepted that reading is beneficial to vocabularyacquisition (Perfetti, 2010).One group of factors in foreign languagevocabulary instruction that has often beenoverlooked is at the level of the individual word,such as word complexity.
In sections 3.2 and 3.3,we describe two simple measures of phonetic andsemantic word complexity that were examinedduring our classroom studies.
There have beenwork on defining the complexity of a word, such asJakielski?s (1998) Index of Phonetic Complexity,but we do not know of work that measures theeffect of word complexity on L2 vocabularylearning.3 Classroom Study SetupIn order to determine the effect that wordcomplexity, in both the phonetic and semanticlevels, have on L2 language learners, weconducted two in-vivo studies with ESL students atthe English Language Institute of the University ofPittsburgh.
The first study focused on the effect ofphonetic word complexity on vocabulary learning.The second study explored the effect of semanticword complexity, in the form of the number ofsenses a word has, on vocabulary learning.
Bothstudies and the tutoring system that was used aredescribed in the next sections.3.1 Overview of the Tutoring SystemThe tutoring system, REAP, is a web-basedlanguage tutor developed at Carnegie Mellon thatharvests documents from the internet for L2vocabulary learning and reading comprehension(Heilman et al, 2006).
It has been used as a testingplatform for cognitive science studies.
This systemhas the ability to provide reader-specific passagesby consulting profiles that model a reader?sreading level, topic interests, and vocabulary goals.The system?s interface has several features thatenhance a student?s learning experience.
One keyfeature is that it provides users with the ability tolisten to the spoken version of any word thatappears in a document, making use of the CepstralText-to-Speech system (2001) to synthesize wordson the fly when clicked on.
Additionally, studentscan look up the definition of any of the words theyencounter while reading the documents using anembedded electronic dictionary.
The system alsoautomatically highlights focus words, i.e.
thewords targeted for vocabulary learning in aparticular reading.3.2 Study 1: Phonetic ComplexityIn Study 1, we looked at the effect that phoneticcomplexity, one measure of a word?s complexity,has on learning a word, and whether thiscomplexity causes a word to be learned moreeasily when multimodal input is provided in theform of written text accompanied by spoken textgenerated through speech synthesis.
To measure aword?s phonetic complexity, we used the ratio of aword?s graphemes to phonemes, where words witha ratio closer to 1 were simpler than those with aratio much greater or less than 1.
Note that for thisstudy, simple letters have been used as thegrapheme units.For example, the word cat has a simple one-to-one mapping between its graphemes and phonemes(C A T vs. K AE T), while other words likeborough and index have a more complexrelationship (B O R O U G H vs. B ER OW, and IN D E X vs. IH N D EH K S), with grapheme-to-phoneme ratios greater than 1 and less than 1respectively.For this study, there were 21 intermediate-levelESL college students at the University of Pittsburgh?sEnglish Language Institute whose native languagesincluded Arabic, Chinese and Spanish.
Weeklygroup readings were given as class activities,centered on a total of 18 focus words, followed bypractice closed cloze questions (multiple-choicefill-in-the-blank with 5 answer choices provided,and distractors coming from the Academic WordList or words that are similar but do not fit theblank properly) on the focus words that appearedin the particular reading.
The focus words used inthis study were taken evenly from the followingword groups:?
Words with grapheme-to?phoneme ratioequal to 1 [6 words]?
Words with grapheme-to?phoneme ratiogreater than 1 [6 words]?
Words with grapheme-to?phoneme ratioless than 1 [6 words]A pre-test was administered at the beginning ofthe study, consisting of closed cloze questionsabout the focus words.
A similar set of questions77was presented to the students during the post-test,which occurred one week after the last readingactivity.
Between the pre-test and post-test, 6reading activities were administered, one per week,each focused on a single document.
This activitytypically took students 20-30 minutes to complete.3.3 Study 2: Semantic ComplexityIn Study 2, we investigated the effect that multipleword-senses, another measure of word complexity,have on learning a word.
There were 21intermediate-level ESL college students at theUniversity of Pittsburgh?s English Language Institute,whose native languages included Arabic, Chinese,Korean, and Spanish.
As in Study 1 there was apre-test, a post-test, and a series of weeklydocuments to be read featuring the focus words.
Intotal there were 26 focus words, all of which weretaken from the Academic Word List and 7 weeklyreading activities.With respect to word complexity, the focuswords were divided into the following groups:?
Words with 1 sense [8 words]?
Words with 2 senses [10 words]?
Words with 3 or more senses [8 words]4 ResultsThe results of both of our studies showed that theuse of the tutoring system significantly helpedstudents improve their performance on thevocabulary tests, as made evident by the averageoverall gains between the pre-test and post-test (p< 0.001).
Note that the error bars shown in thissection show the standard error.
Also note thatnormalized gain, the measurement being used todescribe improvement in both studies, is given theby the following:If the post-test score is greater than the pre-testscore, thenNormalized gain = (post-test score ?
pre-testscore) / (maximum-possible-score ?
pre-test score)Otherwise,Normalized gain = (post-test score ?
pre-testscore) / (pre-test score)In Study 1, the average normalized gainbetween the pre-test and post-test was 0.2563 (?0.0466).
Figure 1 illustrates the differences invocabulary gain when the gains are separated byword condition type.
The average gains percondition are 0.2222, 0.1270, and 0.1191 for theconditions of grapheme-to-phoneme ratio = 1,grapheme-to-phoneme ratio > 1, and grapheme-to-phoneme ratio < 1 respectively.In Study 2, the average normalized gainbetween the pre-test and post-test was 0.5323 (?0.0833).
Figure 2 illustrates the impact of wordsense complexity on vocabulary gains.
Withrespect to word sense complexity, the averagegains per condition are 0.2495, 0.4163, and 0.1699for the 1-sense, 2-senses, and 3-or-more sensesconditions respectively.5 DiscussionThe results of both studies tend to confirm ourinitial hypotheses and suggest that wordcomplexity, in the forms of phonetic complexityand the number of word senses a word has, doesmake a significant difference in how easily an L2vocabulary word is learned.Figure 2: Impact of word sense complexity on theimprovement between pre-test & post-test in Study 2Figure 1: Impact of phonetic complexity on theimprovement between pre-test & post-test in Study 178In Study 1, we see that the ?simple?
words(those with grapheme-to-phoneme ratios equal to1), afford more learning than the more ?complex?words, as made evident by the difference in gainsbetween the pre-test and post-test (p < 0.04) shownin Figure 1.
This result suggests that the phoneticcomplexity of a word may play a role in learningthat word in an intelligent tutoring environment.In Study 2, the words with many senses (3 ormore) have significantly lower gains than wordswith 1 or 2 senses (p < 0.05).
There was nosignificant difference in gains between words with1 word sense and words with 2 word senses, asshown in Figure 2.
This result seems to suggestthat words with 2 or fewer word senses aregenerally easier for L2 students to learn than thosewith 3 or more word senses.
This could be becausea student has a harder time choosing the correctmeaning of a word amongst many choices.
Fewerchoices seem to afford more learning than showingjust the right one, which may indicate that bycomparing two meanings with the meaning in thedocument, the student is actively constructing herknowledge of the word.
Dela Rosa and Eskenazi(2011) found that giving students only the correctmeaning of a polysemous word afforded lesslearning than giving them several meanings in aranked order.6 Conclusion and Future DirectionsThis paper demonstrates that word complexity canaffect how easily an L2 vocabulary word can belearned.
We proposed two dimensions of wordcomplexity, one based on the complexity of aword?s grapheme to phoneme ratio, and anotherbased on the number of meanings a word has.
Twoin-vivo studies were conducted with ESL collegestudents to test our hypothesis.
Our results suggestthat word complexity on both the phonetic andsemantic level does have an effect on L2vocabulary learning.A future research direction that this worksuggests is the search for other measures of wordcomplexity, such as a more complex measure ofgrapheme to phoneme ratio, for example takinginto account the ambiguity of a particulargrapheme, or more complex measures of semanticcomplexity, like one that may take the averagenumber of synonyms a word sense has, todetermine their effect on learning using anintelligent tutoring system.
This information couldhelp define different ways to teach different words,providing more scaffolding for harder words, forexample.We would also like to investigate whether theaverage aggregate vocabulary learning trends ofdifferent native language groups correlates withdifferent measures of word complexity, and thusmight reveal a relation between the structure of L1and difficulties in L2 vocabulary learning.Finally we would like to investigate whetherproviding examples of focus word usage prior to orfollowing a reading activity is beneficial tovocabulary learning.AcknowledgmentsThis project is supported through the PittsburghScience of Learning Center which is funded by theUS National Science Foundation under grantnumber SBE-0836012.
Any opinions, findings, andconclusions or recommendations expressed in thismaterial are those of the authors and do notnecessarily reflect the views of the NSF.The authors would like to thank Betsy Davis,Gregory Mizera, Dawn McCormick, Chris Ortiz,Tamar Bernfeld, and Kimberly Rehak at theUniversity of Pittsburgh?s English LanguageInstitute for their participation and input in theclassroom studies.ReferencesCepstral Text-to-Speech.
2001. http://www.cepstral.comKevin Dela Rosa, Gabriel Parent, and Maxine Eskenazi.2010.
Multimodal learning of words: A study on theuse of speech synthesis to reinforce written text in L2language learning.
Proceedings of the 2010 ISCAWorkshop on Speech and Language Technology inEducation.Kevin Dela Rosa and Maxine Eskenazi.
2011.
Impact ofWord Sense Disambiguation on Ordering DictionaryDefinitions in Vocabulary Learning Tutors.Proceedings of the 24th Florida Artificial IntelligenceResearch Society Conference.Michael Heilman, Kevyn Collins-Thompson, JamieCallan, and Maxine Eskenazi.
2006.
Classroomsuccess of an Intelligent Tutoring System for lexicalpractice and reading comprehension.
Proceedings ofthe 9th International Conference on SpokenLanguage.79Kathy Jakiellski.
1998.
Motor Organization in theAcquisition of Consonant Clusters.
PhD Thesis,University of Texas at Austin.Stefka Marinova-Todd, D. Bradford Marshall, AndCatherine Snow.
2000.
Three Misconceptions AboutAge and L2 Learning.
TESOL Quarterly, 34(1): 9-34.Rebecca Oxford and Robin Scarcella.
1994.
SecondLanguage Vocabulary Learning Among Adults: StateOf The Art In Vocabulary Instruction.
System, 22(2):231-243.Philip Pavlik and John Anderson.
2005.
Practice andforgetting effects on vocabulary memory: Anactivation-based model of the spacing effect.Cognitive Science, 29 (4): 559-586.Charles Perfetti.
2010.
Decoding, Vocabulary, andComprehension: The Golden Triangle of ReadingSkill.
In Bringing Reading Researchers to Life,Margret McKeown & Linda Kucan (editors).Guilford Press, New York, US.Appendix A.
Words Used in StudiesWords from Study 1: condominium, exotic,boost, escapism, yearning, asylum, blatant,denizens, partisan, expats, influx, levy, taxes,lucrative, sector, ostracism, taunts, withdrawalWords from Study 2: established, incorporated,intervention, coherent, facilitate, induce, relax,designed, flexible, inspected, registered, category,enforce, illustrations, accumulate, hypothesis,period, qualitative, simulations, conducted, debate,domestic, found, concentrate, depression, register80
