Proceedings of EMNLP 2011, Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 60?64,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 27?31, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdapting Slovak ASR for native Germans speaking Slovak?tefan Be?u?
1,2, Milo?
Cer?ak1, Milan Rusko1, Mari?n Trnka1, Sachia Darjaa11 Institute of Informatics, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia2 Constantine the Philosopher University, Nitra, Slovakiasbenus@ukf.sk, {Milos.Cernak, Milan.Rusko, Marian.Trnka,Sachia.Darzagin}@savba.skAbstractWe explore variability involved in speechwith a non-native accent.
We first employ acombination of knowledge-based and data-driven approaches for the analysis ofpronunciation variants between L1(German) and target L2 (Slovak).Knowledge gained in this two-step processis then used in adapting acoustic modelsand the lexicon.
We focus on modificationsin the pronunciation dictionary and speechrate.
Our results show that the recognitionof German-accented Slovak is significantlyimproved with techniques modeling slowL2 speech, and that the adaptation of thepronunciation dictionary yields onlyinsignificant gains.1 IntroductionAutomatic recognition of non-native accentedspeech represents a complex problem, especiallysince this type of variability becomes morecommon even in languages with a relatively smallnumber of speakers due to globalization andincreased mobility of people.
The methods mostcommonly used for dealing with this type ofspeech variability include pronunciation modeling,acoustic modeling, or topological modeling (Oh,Yoon and Kim, 2007, Tomokiyo, 2000).
Thispaper presents an approach that starts with ananalysis of the pronunciation variability ofnonnative speech taking into account most salientdifferences between L1 language (in our caseGerman) and L2 target language (Slovak).Following this knowledge-base step, a semi-automatic data-driven approach analyzes thepronunciation variants on a subset of a trainingcorpus is proposed.
The knowledge gained in thistwo-step process is then used to adapt our state-of-the-art ASR system for Slovak in an effort toimprove the baseline recognition of this system inGerman accented Slovak.
We primarily experimentwith adapting the pronunciation dictionary andspeech rate.
In short, we test the acoustic modeland lexicon adaptation based on the analysis ofpronunciation proximity between the German-accented and standard varieties of Slovak.The paper is structured as follows.
Section 2describes the corpora used for testing and training.Section 3 discusses differences between Slovakand German pronunciation by analyzing thephonological systems of the two languages (3.1)and by analyzing the errors Germans make whenspeaking Slovak (3.2).
Section 4 presents the setupand results of experiments in adapting our state-of-the-art ASR system for Slovak to German-accentedpronunciation of Slovak focusing on speech ratemanipulation and appending pronunciationdictionary.
Section 5 discusses the findings andconcludes the paper.2 Description of the databasesOur testing corpus consists of Slovak sentencesread by 18 native speakers of German.
Thesentences were selected or created to represent fourtypes of variability: dialectological (100), foreignaccent (100), phonetic richness and balance (300),and prosody (90).
The first type was based oncommon differences among Slovak dialects, thesecond specially designed for problematic areas ofnative German speakers speaking Slovak.60Depending on the L2 proficiency level of thesubjects, they were divided into two groups:Beginner ?
Intermediate (A1-B1), and Upper-intermediate ?
Advanced (B2-C2).
The subjectswere evenly distributed into these two groups with9 speakers each.
The first group read sentences forthe dialectological and accent tests accompaniedby 100 phonetically rich and balance sentences,and the second group read all 590 sentences.
Intotal, the testing corpus represents 8010 sentences(9*300 + 9*590).3 Features of Slovak with German accent3.1 Knowledge-based approachOne of the most common ways of predictingdifferences between native (L1) and foreign-accented (L2) speech is to compare the soundsystems of L1 and L2.
Here we present a briefoverview of most robust pronunciation differencesbetween German and Slovak.In terms of segmental inventories, Slovak doesnot have front rounded vowels and has only onefront mid vowel quality while German has two.Also, both languages have phonemically distinctshort and long vowels, but the length distinction inGerman robustly affects vowel quality (shortvowels being lax and more centralized), while thistendency for Slovak is much less salient and a midcentral schwa is missing in the Slovak inventory(Be?u?
and M?dy 2010).
Additionally, a majordifference comes from Slovak palatal consonants(stops, nasal, and lateral) that are missing inGerman.
Finally, /r/ is an apical trill in Slovak inall positions while it commonly has uvular orvocalized qualities in German.Many allophonic processes are different in thetwo languages.
The most perceptually salientinclude the aspiration of voiceless stops and theglottalization of initial vowels in German and itsabsence in Slovak.
German lacks a so called dark/l/ quality in syllable codas while most /l/s inSlovak have this quality.
In terms of phonotactics,Slovak has a richer set of potential onset clustersthan German.
Additionally, Slovak syllabic nucleimight be formed by liquids (/l/, /r/) that alsoparticipate in lengthening alternations, which is notthe case in German.
While both languages havepervasive voicing assimilation and neutralization,voicing neutralization in obstruent coda consonantsis slightly more salient in German than in Slovak.Finally, most salient prosodic differencesinclude a fixed left-most word stress in Slovak (cf.variable in German).
Slovak in general alsoreduces the length and quality of unstressed vowelsminimally, while in German, unstressed vowelstend to be shortened and centralized.3.2 Analysis of accent sentencesIn this section we test the theoretical predictions ofpronunciation problems in Slovak with Germanaccent stemming from interferences between L1and L2 described in the previous section.
We tooka subset of our corpus, 100 accent sentences readby all 18 speakers and asked trained annotators tomark all perceptually salient markers of accentedspeech at the level of segments together with wordstress differences.
Different annotators (N=6) weregiven identical instructions and labeled differentsubsets of the data.
A single expert then checkedall annotations for mistakes and inconsistencies.Figure 1.
Error counts for all subjects divided bytheir L2 proficiency level (there were 2540 referencephonemes for each speaker)The annotators found 6966 segmentaldifferences between ?standard?
and Germanaccented Slovak, which represents 15.2% of all45720 phonemes in the 1800 accent sentences.Roughly half of the differences involved syllable61nuclei including liquids (53.1%) and the restinvolved onset and coda consonants.
Theassignment to proficiency levels showed a fairlyreasonable correspondence with the number ofsegmental problems in the accent sentences, as canbe seen in Figure 1 above.Given the discussion in Section 3.1, we noticedseveral expected and unexpected patterns in thedistribution of pronunciation deviations.
Table 1below lists the most frequent groups ofpronunciation problems.
The expected problemsinvolved differences in the palatalization ofalveolar consonants (15.6%), and the presence ofaspiration with voiceless plosives (3.3%).
Twonotable unexpected patterns were observed.
First,despite some differences in the short and longsyllabic nuclei, described in 3.1, the overallfrequency of deviations in phonemic length wassurprising: almost one third (31.6%) of all markeddifferences involved either the shortening of longnuclei or lengthening of short ones.
Additionally,despite the clear and predictable placement ofSlovak word stress, 13.7% of differences involvedan incorrect placement of word stress.
Theproduction of German vowel quality (such as frontrounded vowels or schwa) was relatively low(1.8%).
Hence, prosodic and metrical features ofvowels were perceived as far more problematicthan the features related to their quality.Type of error Count %Vowel shortening 1164 16.7Palatalization 1090 15.6Obstruent voicing 1078 15.5Vowel lengthening 1038 14.9Nucleus stress 954 13.7Rhotic 537 7.7Aspiration 227 3.3German vow.
quality 123 1.8Table 1: Most common errors in accent sentencesThe second unexpected pattern was a relativelyhigh frequency of differences in the voicing ofobstruent consonants (15.5%).
The majority ofthese cases included the devoicing of consonantsthat, in regular fluent Slovak, would be producedas voiced.
This pattern is related to pervasive codavoicing neutralization in German mentioned insection 3.1.
Voicing of canonically voicelessconsonants was observed as well, especially in thevoicing of /s/ to /z/.It is worth noting that both of the unexpectedpatterns relate to speech rate.
A generally slowerrate of L2 speakers results in frequent pausesbetween words thus creating an environment thatmeets the description for obstruent devoicing inGerman and prevents across-the-word voiceassimilation that is pervasive in Slovak.Additionally, the presence of these pausesfacilitates so called pre-boundary lengthening (e.g.Delattre, 1968 for German), in which the rime ofthe pre-pausal syllable is elongated.
Finally, agenerally slower rate may result in vowelsintended as short to be perceived as long especiallyin the speech that is slowed down locally (forexample with unknown words for L2 speakers).4 ASR experimentThe analysis of accent sentences in the previoussection revealed a potential impact of slowerspeaking rate of L2 speakers on the frequency ofpronunciation deviations.
We test the effects ofspeaking rate and variability in the pronunciationdictionary on the recognition of German accentedSlovak in the following experiment.4.1 Test setupThe training audio database contained 130 hours ofphonetically rich sentences, gender balanced, fromdomains such as news and articles from variousmagazines, recorded from 140 speakers withSennheiser ME3 headset microphone withSennheiser MZA 900 P in-line preamplifier andEMU Tracker Pre USB audio interface.
Databasewas annotated using the Transcriber annotationtool (Barras et al, 2000), twice checked andcorrected.
Recordings were split on segments ifpossible not bigger than 10 sec.The training text corpora contained a total ofabout 92 million sentences with 1.25 billion Slovakwords.
A general-domain trigram language model(LM) was created with a vocabulary size of 350kunique words (400k pronunciation variants) whichpassed the spell-check lexicon and subsequentlywere also checked manually.
Similarly to otherrecognizers in Slovak (Sta?, Hl?dek and Juh?r,2010) the modified Kneser-Ney algorithm wasused as a smoothing technique.
The general LM62was adapted with all 590 sentences from the targetdomain.The Julius decoder (Lee, Kawahara, andShikano, 2001) was used as a reference speechrecognition engine, and the HTK toolkit was usedfor word-internal acoustic models (AMs) training.We trained AMs using the triphone mapping asdescribed in (Darjaa et al, 2011), with 32 Gaussiandensities per each HMM state.Experiments have been performed using AMsand LM trained from the training databases, andthe 8010 sentences from the testing corpus asdescribed in Section 2.4.2 ResultsTo estimate the potential effect of slow L2 speechon the recognition accuracy, we first performedsignal level acceleration directly on the recordedwaveforms.
The Praat speech analysis system(Boersma and Weenink 2011) was used,particularly its functionality of adjusting the time-domain of a sound file with a fixed conversionfactor used in subsequent PSOLA resynthesis ofthe resulting file.
We resynthesized all testsentences using the factors 0.9, 0.7, and 0.5 (thelast one corresponding to 50% duration of theoriginal file) and performed recognition with anunadapted LM that had the baseline WER of 55%.The results showed that the acceleration factorwith the highest accuracy gain was 0.7, whichimproved the baseline to 43.4% WER.
Factor 0.9lowered WER to 49.5% while factor 0.5 showedthe worst result (54.1% WER).Following this encouraging initial result, featurelevel acceleration was performed by simple changeof frame shift in the ASR front-end.
The originalfeatures were calculated from 25 ms framedurations and a 10 ms frame shift.
While keepingthe frame durations constant, we increased theframe shift to 14 ms.
This corresponds to theacceleration factor of 0.714, approximatelyidentical to the best performing factor in the signalmodulation experiments.Table 2 shows achieved recognition resultsbased on the adapted LM used as the baseline.
Thisrefers to the performance of the system on Germanaccent sentences without any rate modifications.Unfortunately, we don?t have a corpus of thesesentences produced by Slovak speakers to providea system baseline for non-accented speech but in asimilar, albeit larger, corpus of 18 speakers reading380 sentences this system?s WER was 21.3%(Be?u?
et al, 2011).Speaker rate was accelerated at the signal andfeature levels.
We see that both signal and featureadaptation of speech rate significantly improvedthe accuracy of recognition with the latteroutperforming the former.
The extent of theimprovement is rather surprising and suggests thatspeech rate in read sentences is a major factorwhen recognizing German-accented Slovak.Test WER%Baseline 40.58Alternate dictionary 40.48Signal-adapted speech rate 28.67Signal-adapted rate+alt.
dictionary 28.13Feature-adapted speech rate 25.79Feature-adapted rate+alt.
dictionary 25.33Table 2: Word error rates (WER) for signal andfeature adaptations (speech rate accelerations).The analysis in section 3 also identified twocommon patterns: devoicing of consonants ofGerman speakers that, in regular fluent Slovak,would be produced as voiced, and vowelshortening of German speakers.
We tried to usethis knowledge for improving the speechrecognition system.
In order to better match thepronunciation of German speakers in Slovak ASRsystem, we added alternative pronunciations toeach entry of Slovak dictionary according to Table3.
For example, the entry ?Aachene?
withpronunciation /a: x e J e/, was extended with analternative pronunciation /a x e n e/ by theapplication of the rules in the 1st and 4th rows.Original phones Phones used inalternative pronunciations/J/, /n/ /n//c/, /t/ /t//J\/, /d/ /d//a:/ /e:/ /i:/ /o:/ /u:/ /a/, /e/, /i/, /o/, /u/Table 3: Rules for generation of alternativepronunciations (/J/, /c/, /J\/ are Slovak SAMPA symbolsfor palatal variants of /n/, /t/, and /d/ respectively).63The results in Table 2 show that the changes tothe dictionary resulted in only insignificantimprovements on top of the rate adjustment.Finally, we compared the average WER forindividual speakers in the baseline system with theadapted systems.
For 17 out of 18 speakers theimprovement was greater than 5% and ranged upto 34%; only one speaker?s results showeddeterioration (2%).
Interestingly, despite arelatively good correspondence between theproficiency level and the number of pronunciationerrors showed in Figure 1, neither the recognitionaccuracy of the adapted model, nor the extent ofimprovement after feature adaptation, showed aconsistent relationship to the perceived proficiencyof our subjects.
This may be due to the greaternumber and complexity of test sentences used foradvanced speakers compared to the beginners.5 Discussion and conclusionOur results showed that adjusting the rate of non-native speech to resemble the rate of the nativetraining corpus significantly improves therecognition of speech with foreign accent.Moreover, we showed that feature-basedacceleration outperforms signal-based acceleration.This is important since feature-based accelerationis much easier to perform, and an ASR system runsfaster as it processes less frames.
Furthermore, it isplausible that speech rate variability will be similarin non-native accents of multiple L1 languages,which cannot be expected for the pronunciationvariants.
Hence, although the acceleration of thesignal or features does not account for all of thephonetic interference phenomena described inSection 3.2, sophisticated speech rate modelingthat includes the combination of phone rate,syllable rate, and word rate promises to provide arobust technique for dealing with variabilitystemming from non-native accents.6 AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the European Projectof Structural Funds, ITMS: 26240220064.ReferencesBarras, C., Geoffrois, E., Wu, Z., and Liberman, M.2000.
Transcriber: development and use of a tool forassisting speech corpora production.
SpeechCommunication, 33 (1?2).Be?u?, ?., Cer?ak, M., Rusko, M., Trnka, M., Darjaa,S., and Sabo, R. 2011.
Semi-automatic approach toASR errors categorization in multi-speaker corpora.Proceedings of the International Conference Slovko.Be?u?, ?, and M?dy, K. 2010.
Effects of lexical stressand speech rate on the quantity and quality of Slovakvowels.
Proceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Speech Prosody.Boersma, P., and Weenink, D. 2011.
Praat: doingphonetics by computer [Computer program,http://www.praat.org/].Darjaa, S., Cer?ak, M., Trnka, M., Rusko, M., Sabo, R.2011.
Effective Triphone Mapping for AcousticModeling in Speech Recognition.
Proceedings ofInterspeech 2011 Conference.Delattre, P. 1968.
A Comparison of Syllable LengthConditioning Among Languages.
InternationalReview of Applied Linguistics, IV:183-198.Gusfield, D.. 1997.
Algorithms on Strings, Trees andSequences.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,UK.Lee, A., Kawahara, T., and Shikano, K. 2001.
Julius ?an Open Source Real-Time Large VocabularyRecognition Engine.
In Proc.
of the EuropeanConference on Speech Communications andTechnology (EUROSPEECH).Oh, Y.R., Yoon, J.S., Kim, H.K.
2007.
Acoustic modeladaptation based on pronunciation variabilityanalysis for non-native speech recognition.
SpeechCommunication 49(1), 59-70.Sta?, J., Hl?dek, D., Juh?r, J.
2010.
Language ModelAdaptation for Slovak LVCSR.
In Proc.
of the Intl.Conference on AEI, pp.
101?106.Tomokiyo, L.M., 2000.
Lexical and acoustic modelingof non-native speech in LVCSR.
In: Proc.
ICSLP,Beijing, China, pp.
346?349.64
