Proceedings of the 2011 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 28?37,Portland, Oregon, USA, June 23-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsEVEX: A PubMed-Scale Resource for Homology-Based Generalizationof Text Mining PredictionsSofie Van Landeghem1,2, Filip Ginter3, Yves Van de Peer1,2 and Tapio Salakoski3,41.
Dept.
of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, Belgium2.
Dept.
of Plant Biotechnology and Genetics, Ghent University, Belgium3.
Dept.
of Information Technology, University of Turku, Finland4.
Turku Centre for Computer Science (TUCS), Finlandsolan@psb.ugent.be, ginter@cs.utu.fiyvpee@psb.ugent.be, tapio.salakoski@utu.fiAbstractIn comparative genomics, functional annota-tions are transferred from one organism to an-other relying on sequence similarity.
Withmore than 20 million citations in PubMed, textmining provides the ideal tool for generatingadditional large-scale homology-based predic-tions.
To this end, we have refined a recentdataset of biomolecular events extracted fromtext, and integrated these predictions withrecords from public gene databases.
Account-ing for lexical variation of gene symbols, wehave implemented a disambiguation algorithmthat uniquely links the arguments of 11.2 mil-lion biomolecular events to well-defined genefamilies, providing interesting opportunitiesfor query expansion and hypothesis genera-tion.
The resulting MySQL database, includ-ing all 19.2 million original events as wellas their homology-based variants, is publiclyavailable at http://bionlp.utu.fi/.1 IntroductionOwing to recent advances in high-throughput se-quencing technologies, whole genomes are being se-quenced at an ever increasing rate (Metzker, 2010).However, for the DNA sequence to truly unravel itssecrets, structural annotation is necessary to identifyimportant elements on the genome, such as codingregions and regulatory motifs.
Subsequently, func-tional annotation is crucial to link these structuralelements to their biological function.Functional annotation of genomes often requiresextensive in vivo experiments.
This time-consumingprocedure can be expedited by integrating knowl-edge from closely related species (Fulton et al,2002; Proost et al, 2009).
Over the past fewyears, homology-based functional annotation hasbecome a widely used technique in the bioinformat-ics field (Loewenstein et al, 2009).Unfortunately, many known genotype-phenotypelinks are still buried in research articles: The largestbiomolecular literature database, PubMed, consistsof more than 20 million citations1.
Due to its expo-nential growth, automated tools have become a ne-cessity to uncover all relevant information.There exist several text mining efforts focusingon pairwise interactions and co-occurrence links ofgenes and proteins (Hoffmann and Valencia, 2004;Ohta et al, 2006; Szklarczyk et al, 2011).
Inthis paper, we present the first large-scale text min-ing resource which both utilizes a detailed event-based representation of biological statements andprovides homology-based generalization of the textmining predictions.
This resource results from theintegration of text mining predictions from nearly18M PubMed citations with records from publicgene databases (Section 2).
To enable such inte-gration, it is crucial to first produce canonical formsof the automatically tagged biological entities (Sec-tion 3.1).
A gene symbol disambiguation algorithmthen links these canonical forms to gene families andgene identifiers (Section 3.2).
Finally, a MySQL-driven framework aggregates the text-bound eventoccurrences into generalized events, creating a richresource of homology-based predictions extractedfrom text (Section 3.3).1http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28IL-2NF-kappa BPos.
regulationBindingp55ca thth thFigure 1: Event representation of the statement IL-2 actsby enhancing binding activity of NF-kappa B to p55, il-lustrating recursive nesting of events where the (th)emeof the Positive regulation event is the Binding event.
The(ca)use argument is the gene symbol IL-2.2 DataOur integrative approach is based on two typesof data: text mining predictions generated for thewhole of PubMed (Section 2.1) and publicly avail-able gene database records (Section 2.2).2.1 Text mining predictionsBjo?rne et al (2010) have applied to all PubMed ab-stracts an event extraction pipeline comprising ofthe BANNER named entity recognizer (Leaman andGonzalez, 2008) and the Turku Event ExtractionSystem (Bjo?rne et al, 2009).
The resulting datasetcontains 36.5M occurrences of gene / gene product(GGP) entities and 19.2M occurrences of events per-taining to these entities.The file format and information scheme ofthe resource correspond to the definition of theBioNLP?09 Shared Task on Event Extraction (Kimet al, 2009).
Events are defined as typed relationsbetween arguments that are either entity occurrencesor, recursively, other events.
There are nine possi-ble event types: Localization, Binding, Gene expres-sion, Transcription, Protein catabolism, Phosphory-lation, Regulation, Positive regulation, and Negativeregulation.
Further, arguments are assigned a role:Theme or Cause for the core arguments and AtLoc,ToLoc, Site, and CSite for auxiliary arguments thatdefine additional information such as cellular loca-tion of the event.
In addition, each event occurrencemay be marked as negative and/or speculative.
Fig-ure 1 depicts an example event.2.2 Database recordsDuring the last few decades, several large-scaledatabases have been designed to deal with the abun-dance of data in the field of life sciences.
In thisstudy, we are particularly interested in databases ofgene symbols and homologous gene groups or genefamilies.
These families are composed by clusteringpairwise orthologs, which are genes sharing com-mon ancestry evolved through speciation, often hav-ing a similar biological function.Entrez Gene2 is the default cross-species genenomenclature authority, hosted by NCBI (Sayers etal., 2009).
It bundles information from species-specific resources as well as from RefSeq records3.More than 8M Entrez Gene identifiers were col-lected from over 8,000 different taxa, all togetherreferring to more than 10M distinct gene symbols,descriptions, abbreviations and synonyms.
WhileEntrez Gene IDs are unique across taxa, gene sym-bols are highly ambiguous.
Section 3 describes howwe tackle gene symbol ambiguity across and withinspecies.The HomoloGene4 database is also hosted atNCBI and provides the results of automated de-tection of orthologs in 20 completely sequencedeukaryotic genomes.
From this resource, around43,700 HomoloGene families were extracted, con-taining about 242,000 distinct genes.
A second setof gene families was retrieved from Ensembl (Fliceket al, 2011).
More than 13,000 Ensembl clusterswere assembled comprising about 220,000 genes.As a general rule, the functional similarity scoresper homologous pair in a gene family are higherwhen more stringent criteria are used to define thefamilies (Hulsen et al, 2006).
While HomoloGeneconsists of many strict clusters containing true or-thologs, bigger Ensembl clusters were obtained byassembling all pairwise orthologous mappings be-tween genes.
Ultimately, such clusters may also in-clude paralogs, genes originated by duplication.
Asan example, consider the nhr-35 gene from C. el-egans, which has both Esr-1 and Esr-2 as knownorthologs, resulting in the two paralogs being as-signed to the same final Ensembl cluster.
The En-sembl clustering algorithm can thus be seen as amore coarse-grained method while the HomoloGenemapping results in more strictly defined gene fami-lies.
The implications are discussed on a specificuse-case in Section 4.3.1.2http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene3http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/refseq4http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/homologene293 MethodsWidely known biomolecular events occur in manydifferent articles, often mentioning a different genesynonym or lexical variant.
Canonicalization of theentity occurrences deals with these lexical variants(Section 3.1), while the disambiguation algorithmthen uniquely links canonical forms to a gene fam-ilies (Section 3.2).
In a final step, these links canbe used to generalize the text mining events to theirhomology-based variants (Section 3.3).3.1 Canonicalization of the entity occurrencesThe entity occurrences predicted by BANNER (Sec-tion 2.1) follow the guidelines of GENETAG (Tan-abe et al, 2005), the corpus it was trained on.
Theseguidelines allow not only gene and gene products,but also related entities such as protein complexesand gene promoters.
Furthermore, BANNER fre-quently tags noun phrases such as human Esr-1 generather than only the minimal symbol Esr-1.To enable integration of text mining predictionswith external databases, it is necessary to refine theentity occurrences to canonical forms that can belinked to gene records such as those in Entrez Gene.To this end, common prefixes and suffixes such asgene and wild-type should be removed.In a first step towards canonicalization of the en-tities, a mapping table was assembled containingcommon contexts in which a gene symbol appearsand where the full noun phrase can be reduced tothat embedded symbol for the sake of informationretrieval (Table 1).
This mapping table was createdby matching5 a list of candidate minimal gene sym-bols to the extracted BANNER entities.To define the list of candidate minimal gene sym-bols, two approaches have been combined.
First,a set of around 15,000 likely gene symbols is ex-tracted by looking for single token strings that weretagged by BANNER at least 50% of the times theyoccur in a PubMed abstract.
Secondly, all officialgene names are extracted from Entrez Gene.
As thislatter list also contains common English words suchas was and protein, we have only selected those thatwere likely to be standalone gene symbols.
We cal-culate this likelihood by Cs/(Cs + Cn) where Cs5All string matching steps have been implemented using theSimString string retrieval library (Okazaki and Tsujii, 2010).GGP contexts-ORG- -GGP- gene-GGP- sequencesmutant -GGP- proteins-GGP- homologscytoplasmic wild-type -GGP-Table 1: This table lists a few examples of entity occur-rences extracted with BANNER that are resolved to theembedded minimal gene symbol (marked as -GGP-).is the number of times a string is tagged standaloneand Cn is the number of times the string occurs inPubMed but is not tagged (neither as standalone,nor as part of a larger entity).
This likelihood rep-resents the proportion of standalone occurrences ofthe string that are tagged.
We experimentally set athreshold on this value to be higher than 0.01, ex-cluding a list of 2,865 common English words.Subsequently, all BANNER entity occurrencesare screened and likely minimal gene symbols sub-stituted with -GGP-, resulting in generalized con-texts.
Then, we have matched these contexts with anextensive list of organism names from the Linneausdistribution (Gerner et al, 2010) and a small col-lection of miscellaneous non-formal organism terms(e.g.
monkey), replacing all known organisms withan -ORG- placeholder.
Finally, we have excludedall contexts where the embedded GGP is likely tobe functionally too far removed from the embed-ding noun phrase (e.g.
?-GGP- inhibitor?
), rely-ing on a corpus defining and categorizing such re-lationships (Ohta et al, 2009).
Some of the contextsthat were retained after this step, such as ?-GGP-mutant?
or ?-GGP- promoter?
still refer to entitiesthat are distinctly different from the embedded GGP.These results are considered valid, as the goal of theaffix stripping algorithm is to increase recall and of-fer explorative results involving various types of in-formation on gene symbols.The final list of contexts, generalized with -GGP-and -ORG- placeholders, is split into two separatelists of prefixes and suffixes, ranked by frequency.Also, numerical affixes as well as those shorter than3 characters are discarded from these lists.30Each text-bound entity occurrence can then becanonicalized by applying the following algorithm:1.
Replace all organism names with the place-holder -ORG-2.
If the string can be matched6 to a known sym-bol in Entrez Gene, stop the algorithm3.
Find all occurring affixes and strip the one as-sociated with the highest count4.
Repeat (2-3) until no more affixes match5.
Strip remaining -ORG- placeholders and allwhitespace and non-alphanumeric charactersFor example, the canonicalization of human anti-inflammatory il-10 gene proceeds as -ORG- anti-inflamatory il-10 gene ?
anti-inflammatory il-10gene ?
anti-inflammatory il-10 ?
il-10, at whichpoint the string il10 is matched in Entrez Gene, be-coming the final canonical form.
In the followingsection, we describe how these canonical forms areassigned to unique gene families.3.2 Disambiguation of gene symbolsGene name ambiguity is caused by the lack ofcommunity-wide approved standards for assigninggene symbols (Chen et al, 2005).
Furthermore, au-thors often introduce their own lexical variants or ab-breviations for specific genes.From Entrez Gene, we have retrieved 8,034,512gene identifiers that link to 10,177,542 unique sym-bols.
Some of these symbols are highly ambiguousand uninformative, such as NEWENTRY.
Others areambiguous because they are abbreviations.
Finally,many symbols can not be linked to one unique gene,but do represent a homologous group of genes shar-ing a similar function.
Often, orthologs with similarfunctions are assigned similar official gene names.The first step towards gene symbol disambigua-tion involves collecting all possible synonyms foreach gene family from either Ensembl or Homolo-Gene.
We strip these symbols of all whitespace andnon-alphanumeric characters to match the final stepin the canonicalization algorithm.The disambiguation pipeline then synthesizes theambiguity for all gene symbols by counting their oc-currences in the gene families.
Each such relation6The comparison is done ignoring whitespace and non-alphanumeric characters.Family Type of symbol CountHG:47906 Default symbol 7HG:99739 Synonym 1HG:3740 Synonym 1ECL:10415 Default symbol 12ECL:8731 Synonym 1ECL:8226 Synonym 1Table 2: Intrinsic ambiguity of esr1, analysed in both Ho-moloGene (HG) and Ensembl clusters (ECL).records whether the symbol is registered as an offi-cial or default gene symbol, as the gene description,an abbreviation, or a synonym.
As an example, Ta-ble 2 depicts the intrinsic ambiguity of esr1.In a subsequent step, the ambiguity is reduced byapplying the following set of rules, relying on a pri-ority list imposed on the type of the symbol, ensur-ing we choose an official or default symbol over adescription or synonym.1.
If one family has the most (or all) hits for acertain symbol and these hits refer to a sym-bol type having priority over other possibilities,this family is uniquely assigned to that symbol.2.
If a conflict exists between one family havingthe highest linkage count for a certain sym-bol, and another family linking that symbol toa higher priority type, the latter is chosen.3.
If two families have equal counts and type pri-orities for a certain symbol, this symbol cannot be unambiguously resolved and is removedfrom further processing.4.
If the ambiguity is still not resolved, all fami-lies with only one hit for a certain symbol areremoved, and steps 1-3 repeated.The above disambiguation rules were applied tothe 458,505 gene symbols in HomoloGene.
In thethird step, 6,891 symbols were deleted, and whenthe algorithm ends, 555 symbols remained ambigu-ous.
In total, 451,059 gene symbols could thus beuniquely linked to a HomoloGene family (98%).
Inthe esr1 example depicted in Table 2, only the link toHG:47906 will be retained.
The results for Ensemblwere very similar, with 342,252 out of 345,906 sym-bols uniquely resolved (99%).31All Ensembl HomoloGeneNo stripping 39.9 / 67.5 / 50.2 62.8 / 70.0 / 66.2 64.2 / 69.2 / 66.6Affix stripping 48.7 / 82.3 / 61.1 61.7 / 88.0 / 72.5 62.8 / 87.9 / 73.3Table 3: Influence on precision, recall and F-measure (given as P/R/F) of the affix stripping algorithm on the entityrecognition module, as measured across all BioNLP?09 ST entity occurrences and also separately on the subsets whichcan be uniquely mapped to Ensembl and HomoloGene (77.3% and 75.5% of all occurrences, respectively).3.3 Homology-based generalization of the textmining eventsIn order to gain a broader insight into the 19.2Mevent occurrences obtained by Bjo?rne et al (2010),it is necessary to identify and aggregate multiple oc-currences of the same underlying event.
This gen-eralization also notably simplifies working with thedata, as the number of generalized events is an or-der of magnitude smaller than the number of eventoccurrences.To aggregate event occurrences into generalizedevents, it is necessary to first define equivalenceof two event occurrences: Two event occurrencesare equivalent, if they have the same event type,and their core arguments are equivalent and havethe same roles.
For arguments that are themselvesevents, the equivalence is applied recursively.
Theequivalence of arguments that are entities can be es-tablished in a number of different ways, affectingthe granularity of the event generalization.
One ap-proach is to use the string canonicalization describedin Section 3.1; two entities are then equivalent iftheir canonical forms are equal.
This, however, doesnot take symbol synonymy into account.
A differ-ent approach which we believe to be more power-ful, is to disambiguate gene symbols to gene fam-ilies, as described in Section 3.2.
In this latter ap-proach, two entity occurrences are deemed equiv-alent if their canonical forms can be uniquely re-solved to the same gene family.
Consequently, twoevent occurrences are considered equivalent if theypertain to the same gene families.As both approaches have their merits, three dis-tinct generalization procedures have been imple-mented: one on top of the canonical gene symbols,and one on top of the gene families defined by Ho-moloGene and Ensembl, respectively.4 Results and discussion4.1 Evaluation of entity canonicalizationThe affix stripping step of the canonicalization al-gorithm described in Section 3.1 often substantiallyshortens the entity strings and an evaluation of itsimpact is thus necessary.
One of the primary objec-tives of the canonicalization is to increase the pro-portion of entity occurrences that can be matchedto Entrez Gene identifiers.
We evaluate its im-pact using manually tagged entities from the pub-licly available BioNLP?09 Shared Task (ST) train-ing set, which specifically aims at identifying enti-ties that are likely to match gene and protein sym-bol databases (Kim et al, 2009).
Further, the ST setcomprises of PubMed abstracts and its underlyingtext is thus covered in our data.
Consequently, theST training set forms a very suitable gold standardfor the evaluation.First, we compare7 the precision and recall ofthe BANNER output before and after affix stripping(Table 3, first column).
The affix stripping results ina notable gain in both precision and recall.
In partic-ular, the nearly 15pp gain on recall clearly demon-strates that the affix stripping results in entity stringsmore likely to match existing resources.Second, the effect of affix stripping is evaluatedon the subset of entity strings that can be uniquelymapped into Ensembl and HomoloGene (77.3% and75.5% of the ST entity strings, respectively).
Thissubset is of particular interest, since the generalizedevents are built on top of the entities that can befound in these resources and any gain on this par-ticular subset is thus likely to be beneficial for theoverall quality of the generalized events.
Here, af-fix stripping leads to a substantial increase in re-call when compared to no stripping being applied7The comparison is performed on the level of bags of stringsfrom each PubMed abstract, avoiding the complexity of align-ing character offsets across different resources.32Entities Ent.
occ.Canonical 1.6M (100%) 36.4M (100%)HomoloGene 64.0K (3.9%) 18.8M (51.7%)Ensembl 54.6K (3.3%) 18.7M (51.2%)Table 4: Entity coverage comparison.
The entities col-umn gives the number of canonical entities, also shownas a percentage of all unique, canonical BANNER entities(1.6M).
The entity occurrences column shows the num-ber of occurrences for which the generalization could beestablished, out of the total number of 36.4M extractedBANNER entities.
(around 18pp), which is offset by a comparativelysmaller drop in precision (less than 2pp).
Globalperformance increases with about 6.5pp in F-scorefor both the Ensembl and HomoloGene subsets.Bjo?rne et al (2010) used a simpler, domain-restricted affix stripping algorithm whereby candi-date affixes were extracted only from NP-internalrelations in the GENIA corpus (Ohta et al, 2009).This original algorithm affects 11.5% unique en-tity strings and results in 3.5M unique canonicalforms and 4.5M unique events.
In comparison,our current affix stripping algorithm results in 1.6Munique canonical forms and 3.2M unique events,thus demonstrating the improved generalization ca-pability of the current affix stripping algorithm.4.2 Evaluation of homology-baseddisambiguationThe symbol to gene family disambiguation algo-rithm succesfully resolves almost all gene symbolsin HomoloGene or Ensembl (Section 3.2).
However,not all genes are a member of a known gene family,and the event generalization on top of the gene fam-ilies will thus inevitably discard a significant portionof the text mining predictions.Table 4 shows that only a small fraction of allunique canonical entities matches the gene familiesfrom HomoloGene or Ensembl (3.9% and 3.3%, re-spectively).
However, this small fraction of symbolsaccounts for approximately half of all entity occur-rences in the text mining data (51.7% and 51.2%).The algorithm thus discards a long tail of very in-frequent entities.
Table 5 shows a similar result forthe events and event occurrences.
We find that map-ping to HomoloGene and Ensembl results in a con-siderably smaller number of generalized events, yetEvents Ev.
occ.Canonical 3223K 19.2M (100%)HomoloGene 614K 10.2M (53%)Ensembl 505K 10.2M (52.9%)Table 5: Comparison of the three event generalizationmethods.
The events column gives the number of gen-eralized events and the event occurrences column showsthe number of occurrences for which the generalizationcould be established, out of the total number of 19.2Mtext-bound event occurrences.accounts for more than half of all event occurrences(53% and 52.9%, respectively).Finally, merging the canonical entities and thecorresponding generalized events for both Homolo-Gene and Ensembl, we can assess the percentage ofall text mining predictions that can be linked to atleast one homology-based variant: 21.8M (59.8%)of all entity occurrences and 11.2M (58.4%) of allevent occurrences can be resolved.
Nearly 60% ofentity and event occurrences in the original text min-ing data could thus be uniquely linked to well de-fined gene families.
Also, as shown in Section 4.1,the 60% entities retained are expected to containproportionally more true positives, compared to the40% entities that could not be mapped.
One mightspeculate that a similar effect will be seen alsoamong events.4.3 MySQL database and Use-casesAs the PubMed events extracted by Bjo?rne etal.
(2010) are purely text-bound and distributed astext files, they can not easily be searched.
One im-portant contribution of this paper is the release of alltext mining predictions as a MySQL database.
Dur-ing the conversion, all original information is kept,including links to the PubMed IDs and the offsetsin text for all entities and triggers, referring to theoriginal strings as they were obtained by BANNERand the event extraction system.
This allows for fastretrieval of text mining data on a PubMed-scale.As described in Section 3.3, three distinct gener-alization methods have been applied to the originalevents.
On the database level, each generalization isrepresented by a separate set of tables for the gen-eralized events and their arguments, aggregating im-portant event statistics such as occurrence count and33Figure 2: Database scheme of the generalized events.
Three instantiations of the general scheme (i.e.
the three leftmosttables) exist in the database.
Following the dotted lines, each instance links to a different table in which the canonicalforms and the gene identifiers can be looked up.negation/speculation information (Figure 2).
Table 5states general statistics for the three different sets.Finally, a mapping table is provided that links thegeneralized events to the event occurrences fromwhich they were abstracted.
More technical detailson the MySQL scheme and example queries can befound at http://bionlp.utu.fi/.4.3.1 Use case: Query expansionThe MySQL database is the ideal resource to re-trieve information on a PubMed-scale for a certaingene or set of genes.
Suppose there would be an in-terest in Esr-1, then all abstract events on top of thecanonical form esr1 can be retrieved.
However, re-sults will display events for both the Estrogen recep-tor as well as for the much less common Enhancer ofshoot regeneration.
Furthermore, it makes no senseto add known synonyms of both genes to the query,as this will generate an incoherent list of synonymsand even more false positive hits.In such a case, it is to be recommended to usethe homology-based generalization of the events.For example, esr1 hits the HomoloGene familyHG:47906, which contains all Estrogen receptor-alpha genes across eukaryotic species.
Canonicalsymbols linked to this family include era, estra,nr3a1 and estrogenreceptor1alpha.A similar analysis can be done for the Ensemblclustering, where esr1 links to ECL:10415.
How-ever, this more coarse-grained Ensembl family con-tains all genes from the two closely related sub-groups Estrogen receptor and Estrogen related re-ceptor, both belonging to the Estrogen Receptor-like group of the superfamily of nuclear recep-tors (Zhang et al, 2004).
On top of the synonymsmentioned previously, this family thus also includeserb, esr2b, errbetagamma and similartoesrrbpro-tein.
By using this list for query expansion, moregeneral text mining predictions can be retrieved.It is to be noted that both homology-based ap-proaches will also include events mentioning Esr-1as the abbreviation for Enhancer of shoot regener-ation.
While this usage is much less common, itwill result in a few false positive hits.
These falsepositives may be prevented by taking into accountlocal context such as organism mentions, as the En-hancer of shoot regeneration gene is only presentin A. thaliana.
We believe our current homology-based approach could be integrated with existingor future normalization algorithms (Krallinger andHirschman, 2007; Wermter et al, 2009) to providesuch fine-grained resolution.
This is regarded as in-teresting future work.4.3.2 Use case: Homology-based hypothesesConsider a newly annotated, protein-coding genefor which no database information currently ex-ists.
To generate homology-based text mining hy-potheses, the orthologs of this gene first have tobe defined by assessing sequence similarity throughBLAST (Altschul et al, 1997).Imagine for example a newly sequenced genomeX for which a gene similar to the mouse gene Esr-1 is identified.
This gene will soon be known as?genome X Esr-1?
and thus related to the Esr-1 genefamily.
As described in Section 4.3.1, homology-34based query expansion can then be used to retrieveall events involving lexical variants and synonymsof the canonical string esr1.5 ConclusionsWe present a large-scale resource for research andapplication of text mining from biomedical litera-ture.
The resource is obtained by integrating textmining predictions in the dataset of Bjo?rne et al(2010) with public databases of gene symbols andgene families: Entrez Gene, Ensembl, and Homolo-Gene.
The integration is performed on the level ofgene families, allowing for a number of novel usecases for both text mining and exploratory analysisof the biological statements in PubMed literature.
Toachieve the linking between text-based event predic-tions and gene databases, several algorithms are in-troduced to solve the problems involved.First, we propose an algorithm for stripping af-fixes in entity occurrences tagged by the BAN-NER named entity recognizer, addressing the prob-lem of such entities often including wider contextwhich prevents direct matching against gene symboldatabases.
Using the BioNLP?09 Shared Task dataas gold standard, we show that the algorithm sub-stantially increases both precision and recall of theresulting canonical entities, the gain in recall beingparticularly pronounced.Second, we propose an algorithm which assignsto the vast majority of gene symbols found in Ho-moloGene and Ensembl a single unique gene fam-ily, resolving the present intra-organism ambiguitybased on symbol occurrence statistics and symboltype information.
Matching these disambiguatedsymbols with the affix-stripped canonical forms ofentity occurrences, we were able to assign a uniquegene family from either HomoloGene or Ensembl tonearly 60% of all entities in the text, thus linking thetext-bound predictions with gene databases.Finally, we use the resolution of entity occur-rences to unique gene families to generalize theevents in the text mining data, aggregating togetherevent occurrences whose arguments are equivalentwith respect to their gene family.
Depending onwhether HomoloGene or Ensembl is used for thegene family definition, this generalization processresults in 500K-600K generalized events, which to-gether aggregate over 11.2M (58.4%) of all eventoccurrences in the text mining data.
Being ableto link the literature-based events with well-definedgene families opens a number of interesting newuse-cases for biomedical text mining, such as theability to use the homology information to search forevents relevant to newly discovered sequences.
Theremaining 41.6% of event occurrences not general-izable to gene families can still be retrieved throughan additional generalization on the level of entitycanonical forms.All relevant data, namely all original events andentities together with their canonical forms, thegeneralizations of events based on canonical entityforms and gene families, as well as the gene symbolto unique family mapping are made publicly avail-able as records in a MySQL database.
We also pro-vide detailed online documentation of the databasescheme and example queries.
Finally, we release theaffix lists used in the canonicalization algorithm.We believe this resource to be very valuablefor explorative analysis of text mining results andhomology-based hypothesis generation, as well asfor supporting future research on data integrationand biomedical text mining.One important future work direction is a furtherdisambiguation of canonical gene symbols to uniquegene identifiers rather than entire gene families,which would allow for more fine-grained event gen-eralization.
There is an ongoing active, community-wide research focusing on this challenge and the cur-rent resource could be integrated as an additionalsource of information.
Another future work direc-tion is to create a visualization method and a webinterface which would allow simple, user-friendlyaccess to the data for researchers outside of theBioNLP research community itself.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank Sampo Pyysalo(University of Tokyo) and Jari Bjo?rne (Universityof Turku) for their contribution.
SVL would liketo thank the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO)for funding her research and a travel grant to Turku.This work was partly funded by the Academy of Fin-land and the computational resources were providedby CSC IT Center for Science Ltd., Espoo, Finland.35ReferencesStephen F. Altschul, Thomas L. Madden, Alejandro A.Scha?ffer, Jinghui Zhang, Zheng Zhang, Webb Miller,and David J. Lipman.
1997.
Gapped BLAST and PSI-BLAST: a new generation of protein database searchprograms.
Nucleic acids research, 25(17):3389?3402,September.Jari Bjo?rne, Juho Heimonen, Filip Ginter, Antti Airola,Tapio Pahikkala, and Tapio Salakoski.
2009.
Extract-ing complex biological events with rich graph-basedfeature sets.
In BioNLP ?09: Proceedings of the Work-shop on BioNLP, pages 10?18, Morristown, NJ, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Jari Bjo?rne, Filip Ginter, Sampo Pyysalo, Jun?ichi Tsu-jii, and Tapio Salakoski.
2010.
Scaling up biomed-ical event extraction to the entire PubMed.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical Natu-ral Language Processing, BioNLP ?10, pages 28?36,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Lifeng Chen, Hongfang Liu, and Carol Friedman.
2005.Gene name ambiguity of eukaryotic nomenclatures.Bioinformatics, 21:248?256, January.Paul Flicek, M. Ridwan Amode, Daniel Barrell, KathrynBeal, Simon Brent, Yuan Chen, Peter Clapham, GuyCoates, Susan Fairley, Stephen Fitzgerald, Leo Gor-don, Maurice Hendrix, Thibaut Hourlier, Nathan John-son, Andreas Ka?ha?ri, Damian Keefe, Stephen Keenan,Rhoda Kinsella, Felix Kokocinski, Eugene Kulesha,Pontus Larsson, Ian Longden, William McLaren, BertOverduin, Bethan Pritchard, Harpreet Singh S. Riat,Daniel Rios, Graham R. Ritchie, Magali Ruffier,Michael Schuster, Daniel Sobral, Giulietta Spudich,Y.
Amy Tang, Stephen Trevanion, Jana Vandrov-cova, Albert J. Vilella, Simon White, Steven P.Wilder, Amonida Zadissa, Jorge Zamora, Bronwen L.Aken, Ewan Birney, Fiona Cunningham, Ian Dunham,Richard Durbin, Xose?
M. Ferna?ndez-Suarez, JavierHerrero, Tim J. Hubbard, Anne Parker, Glenn Proc-tor, Jan Vogel, and Stephen M. Searle.
2011.
Ensembl2011.
Nucleic acids research, 39(Database issue), Jan-uary.Theresa M. Fulton, Rutger Van der Hoeven, Nancy T.Eannetta, and Steven D. Tanksley.
2002.
Identifica-tion, analysis, and utilization of conserved orthologset markers for comparative genomics in higher plants.Plant Cell, 14(5):1457?1467.Martin Gerner, Goran Nenadic, and Casey M. Bergman.2010.
LINNAEUS: a species name identification sys-tem for biomedical literature.
BMC bioinformatics,11(1):85+, February.Robert Hoffmann and Alfonso Valencia.
2004.
A genenetwork for navigating the literature.
Nat Genet,36(7):664, Jul.Tim Hulsen, Martijn Huynen, Jacob de Vlieg, and PeterGroenen.
2006.
Benchmarking ortholog identificationmethods using functional genomics data.
Genome Bi-ology, 7(4):R31+, April.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Overview ofBioNLP?09 shared task on event extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop CompanionVolume for Shared Task, pages 1?9, Boulder, Col-orado, June.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Martin Krallinger and Lynette Hirschman, editors.
2007.Proceedings of the Second BioCreative ChallengeEvaluation Workshop, Madrid, April.Robert Leaman and Graciela Gonzalez.
2008.
BAN-NER: an executable survey of advances in biomedi-cal named entity recognition.
Pacific Symposium onBiocomputing.
Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing,pages 652?663.Yaniv Loewenstein, Domenico Raimondo, Oliver C.Redfern, James Watson, Dmitrij Frishman, MichalLinial, Christine Orengo, Janet Thornton, and AnnaTramontano.
2009.
Protein function annotationby homology-based inference.
Genome biology,10(2):207, February.Michael L. Metzker.
2010.
Sequencing technolo-gies - the next generation.
Nature reviews.
Genetics,11(1):31?46, January.Tomoko Ohta, Yusuke Miyao, Takashi Ninomiya, Yoshi-masa Tsuruoka, Akane Yakushiji, Katsuya Masuda,Jumpei Takeuchi, Kazuhiro Yoshida, Tadayoshi Hara,Jin-Dong Kim, Yuka Tateisi, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.2006.
An intelligent search engine and GUI-based ef-ficient MEDLINE search tool based on deep syntacticparsing.
In Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 In-teractive Presentation Sessions, pages 17?20, Sydney,Australia, July.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Kim Jin-Dong, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
A re-evaluation of biomedi-cal named entity - term relations.
In Proceedings ofLBM?09.Naoaki Okazaki and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2010.
Simple andefficient algorithm for approximate dictionary match-ing.
In Proceedings of the 23rd International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010),pages 851?859, Beijing, China, August.Sebastian Proost, Michiel Van Bel, Lieven Sterck, KennyBilliau, Thomas Van Parys, Yves Van de Peer, andKlaas Vandepoele.
2009.
PLAZA: A comparative ge-nomics resource to study gene and genome evolutionin plants.
Plant Cell, 21(12):3718?3731, December.36Eric W. W. Sayers, Tanya Barrett, Dennis A.
A. Ben-son, Stephen H. H. Bryant, Kathi Canese, VyacheslavChetvernin, Deanna M. M. Church, Michael Dicuc-cio, Ron Edgar, Scott Federhen, Michael Feolo, LewisY.
Y. Geer, Wolfgang Helmberg, Yuri Kapustin, DavidLandsman, David J. J. Lipman, Thomas L. L. Madden,Donna R. R. Maglott, Vadim Miller, Ilene Mizrachi,James Ostell, Kim D. D. Pruitt, Gregory D. D.Schuler, Edwin Sequeira, Stephen T. T. Sherry, MartinShumway, Karl Sirotkin, Alexandre Souvorov, Grig-ory Starchenko, Tatiana A.
A. Tatusova, Lukas Wag-ner, Eugene Yaschenko, and Jian Ye.
2009.
Databaseresources of the National Center for BiotechnologyInformation.
Nucleic Acids Research, 37(Databaseissue):D5?15, January.Damian Szklarczyk, Andrea Franceschini, MichaelKuhn, Milan Simonovic, Alexander Roth, PabloMinguez, Tobias Doerks, Manuel Stark, Jean Muller,Peer Bork, Lars J. Jensen, and Christian von Mer-ing.
2011.
The STRING database in 2011: functionalinteraction networks of proteins, globally integratedand scored.
Nucleic acids research, 39(Databaseissue):D561?D568, January.Lorraine Tanabe, Natalie Xie, Lynne H. Thom, WayneMatten, and W. John Wilbur.
2005.
GENETAG: atagged corpus for gene/protein named entity recogni-tion.
BMC bioinformatics, 6 Suppl 1.Joachim Wermter, Katrin Tomanek, and Udo Hahn.2009.
High-performance gene name normalizationwith GENO.
Bioinformatics, 25(6):815?821.Zhengdong Zhang, Paula E. Burch, Austin J. Cooney,Rainer B. Lanz, Fred A. Pereira, Jiaqian Wu,Richard A. Gibbs, George Weinstock, and David A.Wheeler.
2004.
Genomic analysis of the nuclear re-ceptor family: New insights into structure, regulation,and evolution from the rat genome.
Genome Research,14(4):580?590, April.37
