Proceedings of the 5th ACL-HLT Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 39?43,Portland, OR, USA, 24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsHistorical Event Extraction from TextAgata Cybulska Piek VossenVU University Amsterdam VU University AmsterdamDe Boelelaan 1105 De Boelelaan 11051081 HV Amsterdam 1081 HV Amsterdamak.cybulska@let.vu.nl p.vossen@let.vu.nlAbstractIn this paper, we report on how historicalevents are extracted from text within the Se-mantics of History research project.
The projectaims at the creation of resources for a historicalinformation retrieval system that can handle thetime-based dynamics and varying perspectivesof Dutch historical archives.
The historicalevent extraction module will be used for mu-seum collections, allowing users to search forexhibits related to particular historical events oractors within time periods and geographicareas, extracted from accompanying text.
Wepresent here the methodology and tools used forthe purpose of historical event extraction along-side with the first evaluation results.1 IntroductionThe research project Semantics of History1 is con-cerned with the development of a historical ontol-ogy and a lexicon that will be used in a new type ofinformation retrieval system.
In historical texts thereality changes over time (Ide & Woolner, 2007).Furthermore, historical realities can be seen diffe-rently depending on the subjective view of thewriter.
In the design of our search system, we willtake into consideration the change of reality andthe diverse attitudes of writers towards historicalevents so that they both can be used for the pur-pose of historical information retrieval.In the first phase of the project we researchedhow descriptions of historical events are realized indifferent types of text and what the implications1 The Semantics of History is funded by the Interfaculty Re-search Institute CAMeRA at the Free University Amsterdamas a collaboration of the Faculties of Arts and Exact Science:http://www2.let.vu.nl/oz/cltl/semhis/index.html.are for historical information retrieval.
Differenthistorical perspectives of writers correspond withgenre distinctions and correlate with variation inlanguage use.
Texts, written shortly after an eventhappened, use more specific and uniquely occur-ring event descriptions than texts describing thesame events but written from a longer time pers-pective.
Statistical analysis performed within thefirst phase of the project confirmed this hypothe-sis2.
To capture differences between event repre-sentations and to identify relations betweenhistorical events, we defined a historical eventmodel which consists of 4 slots: a location slot,time, participant and an action slot (see also VanHage et al2011 for the formal SEM model).After arriving at an understanding of how tomodel historical events, we moved on to actuallyextracting events from text.
In this paper we reporton our approach into historical event extractionfrom textual data about the Srebrenica Massacrefrom July 19953.
There are two problems that hadto be tackled for the purpose of this task: 1) extrac-tion of event actions with their participants, loca-tions and time markers and 2) filtering of eventslacking historical value from all events extractedby the system.
We believe that event actions andtheir participants, locations and time markers canbe extracted based on some syntactic clues, PoS,lemma and combinatory information together withsemantic class definition and exclusion by meansof Wordnet.
Historical filtering can be performedthrough semantic classification of event actions.2 For details see Cybulska, Vossen, LREC 2010.3 The Srebrenica corpus consists of 78 Dutch texts.
For moreinformation on the design of the corpus see Cybulska, Vossen(2010).39We tested this hypothesis within the KYOTOframework4.2 Related WorkTwo other projects concerned with extraction ofhistorical information are the FDR/Pearl Harborproject and the New Web Portal.
The latter5 aimedat creation of a digital archive of historical news-papers of the National Library of Finland6.
Withinthe project a semantic search system for historicaltexts was created using a common ontology withsemantically annotated cultural objects (Ahonenand Hyv?onen, 2009).
Related content is beinglinked through semantic annotation of historicaltexts based on ontology labels which presupposesthat only high level historical events from textwere annotated.
The Pearl Harbor project aimed atfacilitating enhanced search and retrieval from aset of documents from the FDRL library by utiliz-ing a series of multiple temporally contextualizedsnapshot ontologies determined by the occurrenceof key historical events (Ide & Woolner, 2007).We did not manage to find evaluation results forany of the two projects.
Traditional approaches toevent extraction that do report evaluation resultsuse models that severely restrict the relations.
Theyachieve high precision but poorly represent the textas a whole.
E.g., Xu et.
al.
(2006) report over 80%precision for prize award extraction and Tanev et.al.
(2008) 74% precision for violent events anddisasters.
Our approach models more events in atext and events of a broader scope, more compara-ble to Wunderwald (2011), who extracts partici-pants and roles from news in general, reporting 50-60% precision.
Wunderwald uses a machine-learning approach, while our method is know-ledge-based.
Furthermore, Wunderwald does notdistinguish historical from non-historical events.3 Historical Event Extraction3.1 Generic Event Extraction by means ofKYOTOKYOTO tools were specifically designed to extractevents from text.
This pipeline-architecture of lin-4 For more information about the KYOTO - project(www.kyoto-project.eu) see Vossen et al(2008a).5 The New Web Portal is part of the National Semantic Web2.0 (FinnONTO 2.0) project.6 http://digi.lib.helsinki.fi/sanomalehti/secure/main.htmlguistic processors generates a uniform semanticrepresentation of text in the so-called Kyoto Anno-tation Format (KAF)7.
KAF is a stand-off formatthat distinguishes separate layers for text tokens,text terms, constituents and dependencies.
It can beused to represent event actions with their partici-pants, locations and time markers.
For the purposeof this research, the Srebrenica corpus wasprocessed by means of the KYOTO ?
architecture.First, the corpus was tagged with PoS- informa-tion; it was lemmatized and syntactically parsed bymeans of a dependency parser for Dutch - Alpino8.Next, word sense disambiguation was performed9and the corpus was semantically annotated withlabels from the Dutch Wordnet10 and ontologicalclasses.
Generic event information stored in theKAF ?
format can be extracted within KYOTO bymeans of Kybot-profiles which are stored in theXML format11.
These profiles define patterns overdifferent layers in KAF and create a semantic out-put layer for matches over these layers.3.2 Semantic Tagging of Historical EventsTo extract historical events we developed ?histori-cal?
Kybot-profiles which define appropriate con-structions and semantic classes of historical actionsand their participants, locations and time markers.In these profiles, the semantic action classes areused to distinguish historical from non-historicalevents.
The semantic type specification was de-rived from manual tagging of historical event slotsby means of the KAF-annotator12 in 5 developmenttexts from the Srebrenica corpus 13 .
Manuallytagged historical event actions as well as partici-pants, locations and time markers were automati-cally mapped with corresponding Wordnet synsets.In case of multiple senses assigned per word theappropriate Wordnet ID was manually chosen.Historical event tagging with Wordnet ID?s re-vealed a few problematic issues.
For a number of7 Kyoto Annotation Format is described in Bosma et al(2009).8 http://www.let.rug.nl/vannoord/alp/Alpino/9 For word sense disambiguation the UKB system(http://ixa2.si.ehu.es/ukb/) was used.
For more information thereader is referred to Agirre & Soroa (2009).10 For more information see Vossen et al(2008b).11 For more information see KYOTO deliverable 5.4 athttp://www.kyoto-project.eu/.12 See tools at http://www.kyoto-project.eu/.13 The development set contains one Wikipedia entry, twoeducational texts and two newspaper articles written a fewyears after the Srebrenica massacre happened.40locations, time markers, participants and actionsthere were no Wordnet synsets automatically as-signed.
No WN-concepts were found for geograph-ical names as Srebrenica or Zagreb.
Also personand organization names (Mladic, Dutchbat III,NIOD) and dates would not get any synsets as-signed.
The same applies to compounds (moslim-mannen ?Muslim men?, VN-militairen ?UN sol-diers?
), pronoun participants and loanwords: (suchas safe haven in a Dutch text).
Furthermore therewere some historical senses missing in the DutchWordnet (such as vredesoperatie ?peacekeepingoperation?, oorlogspad ?warpath?).
To be able tohandle proper names we used a named entity rec-ognition module.
By means of NER we addeddates and geographical names to KAF so that wecould further use them for the extraction of timemarkers and locations.
In the future, we will lookinto compound splitting and we are also going toadd the missing historical senses to the Wordnetdatabase.After identifying historical WN-synsets, we au-tomatically determined the most informativehypernyms of the seed terms per historical label.Based on the chosen hypernyms (and their hypo-nyms), we manually selected a number of semanticclasses to be able to identify event locations, timemarkers, participants and historical actions in his-torical texts.
We defined six semantic classes de-noting: human participants, time periods, momentsin time, places, historical and motion actions.
Fur-thermore we specified six more action classes tofilter out non historical and potential events: ac-tions indicating modality, polarity, intention, sub-jectivity, cognitive (also rarely of historicalimportance) and contentless actions.
Next, we de-rived a table that assigns one of the ontologicalclasses to every synset in Wordnet on the basis ofthe relations to the labeled hypernyms.
All KAF-files were then annotated with the twelve semanticclasses, on the basis of the Wordnet synsets as-signed by the WSD module and this mapping ta-ble.4 Kybot ProfilesKyoto-Kybot extracts events from KAF by meansof Kybot profiles.
Based on event descriptionsfrom the development set 402 profiles were de-fined, using semantic and constructional informa-tion and specifically PoS, lemma, compositionaland semantic restrictions with regards to locations,time expressions, event actions and participants.The current version of the system uses 22 pro-files to extract historical actions, based on semantictagging by means of Wordnet and the specificationof some compositional properties.
Historical ac-tions are the most significant part of historicalevent extraction.
They serve to distinguish histori-cal actions from the non-historical ones and toidentify parts of the same historical event.
The pro-files extract both, verbal actions (such as deport,murder, occupy) and nominal ones (such as fight,war and offensive) as well as actions with a syntac-tic object (sign a treaty, start the offensive etc).Next to the semantic class of historical actions alsomotion actions (often occurring with a goal or re-sult phrase as transport into a location) are ex-tracted as potential historical event actions.
Theaction profiles exclude from the output the non-historical semantic action classes and by that thenon historical events are filtered out.For the extraction of historical participants wenow use 314 profiles.
The variation within histori-cal participant descriptions of the development setwas, as expected, much higher than the diversity offormulations denoting other event parts.
Participantprofiles specify noun phrases (also proper names)organized around the semantic class of human par-ticipants14.
It is a relatively common phenomenonin historical event descriptions that geographicalproper names are used for referral to participants.So we also created some profiles identifying coun-try and city names occurring in the subject positionof active sentences.To extract historical event time we specified 43temporal profiles.
Thanks to the named entity rec-ognition module of Kyoto we are able to retrievedates and, based on Wordnet, the system can rec-ognize temporal expressions which refer to week-days or months and more general and relative timemarkers (such as now or two weeks later).Furthermore, 23 location profiles are utilized toextract geographical proper names and other loca-tive expressions based on the Wordnet class ofplaces (as street, city, country etc).14 For now we focused on human animate participants andthose referred to by personal pronouns.
In the future we willalso look into extracting participants indirectly named throughword combinations consisting of geo adjectives precedingwords denoting weapons and transportation vehicles (such asSerbian tanks).415 EvaluationFor the evaluation purposes we used the KYOTOtriplet representation of historical events, which isa generic event representation format.
A tripletconsists of a historical action, mapped with itsnearby occurring participant, location or time ex-pression together with a label indicating the eventslot type.
In the evaluation the gold standard trip-lets will be compared with triplets generated by thesystem.
A set of five texts from the Srebrenica cor-pus, written some years after the massacre, wastagged manually with historical events by two in-dependent annotators.
We obtained a very highinter-annotator agreement of 94% (0.91 Kappa).As a baseline, we generated triplets from allconstituent heads in a sentence.
Each constituenthead is once treated as an action while all the oth-ers are seen as participants.
Applying the defaultrelation ?
historical participant ?
the baselineachieved an average of 66% recall and a (unders-tandably) low precision of less than 0.01%.
Tables1 and 2 present the performance of the system onthe evaluation set.
The abbreviations in the tablesstand for: T. Nr ?
Token Number, G. Trp ?
GoldTriplets, S. Trp ?
System Triplets, C.S.
Trp ?
Cor-rect System Triplets, R ?
Recall, P. ?
Precision, F ?F-measure.CountsFileT.NrG.TrpS.TrpC.S.TrpR.%P.%FFile 1 243 5 4 1 20 25 0.22File 2 440 32 25 18 56 72 0.63File 3 647 58 68 32 55 47 0.51File 4 429 32 22 17 53 77 0.63File 5 209 19 19 12 63 63 0.63Micro Average - - - - 49 57 0.53Table 1.
Evaluation results per file (micro average).CountsRelationG.TrpS.TrpC.S.TrpR.%P.%FParticipants 98 95 57 58 60 0.59Time 17 20 13 76 65 0.70Location 31 23 10 32 43 0.37Table 2.
Evaluation results per relation (macro average)The system reached an overall recall of 49% anda precision of 57%.
The low scores for file 1 canbe explained by the fact that in this text some socalled ?political events?
were described such asresponsibility issues and an investigation w. r. t.events in Srebrenica that was performed in theNetherlands few years after the massacre.
Current-ly the system is not prepared to handle any otherevents than the conflict related ones.Historical actions, evaluated in a separate nontriplet evaluation cycle, were extracted with a re-call of 67.94% and a precision of 51.96%.
We ex-tracted time expressions with the highest precisionof 65% and also the highest recall of 76%.
Thelower recall and precision measures reached for theextraction of participants and especially locationscan be explained by the type shift of the semanticclass of locations used for referral to event partici-pants.
As mentioned before, so far we only are ableto identify these if occurring in subject position; inthe future we will add deeper syntactic dependencyinformation into KAF and by that we will improvethe recognition of locations used as participants.6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper we showed that historical events cansuccessfully be extracted from text, based on con-structional clues and semantic type specification.To extract events we used a generic fact miningsystem KYOTO; we specified language structuresand Wordnet concepts denoting event actions, par-ticipants, locations and time markers and we iden-tified the historical events through recognition ofhistorical actions.
The evaluation results confirmthat historical events can be extracted from histori-cal texts by means of this approach with a relative-ly high recall of almost 50% and a precision of57%, (comparable to the results of Wunderwald,2011).
In our future work we are going to increasethe performance of the system by utilizing in theprofiles more specific syntactic information andthe grammatical tense.
We will also look into otherpossibilities of distinguishing between historicalevents and events lacking historical value, also innon historical genres.
In the next stage of theproject we will make an attempt to automaticallydetermine relations between historical events overtextual data.
We will also apply the system to otherhistorical descriptions that are connected to mu-seum collections.
Because of the generic design ofthe extraction module, we expect that the extrac-tion of conflict events can be applied to other pe-riods and events with little adaptation.42AcknowledgmentsThis research was funded by the interfaculty re-search institute CAMeRA (Center for AdvancedMedia Research) of the VU University of Amster-dam: http://camera.vu.nl.ReferencesAgirre, Eneko and Aitor Soroa, 2009, ?PersonalizingPageRank for Word Sense Disambiguation?, in: Pro-ceedings of the 12th conference of the Europeanchapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, (EACL-2009), Athens, Greece.Ahonen, Eeva and Eero Hyv?onen, 2009, ?PublishingHistorical Texts on the Semantic Web -A CaseStudy?
[online] available:http://www.seco.tkk.fi/publications/2009/ahonen-hyvonen-historical-texts-2009.pdfBosma, Wauter, Vossen, Piek, Soroa, Aitor, Rigau,German, Tesconi, Maurizio, Marchetti, Andrea, Mo-nachini, Monica, and Carlo Aliprandi, 2009 ?KAF: ageneric semantic annotation format.
?, in Proceedingsof the GL2009 Workshop on Semantic Annotation,Pisa, Italy, Sept 17-19, 2009.Bosma, Wauter and Piek Vossen, 2010, "Bootstrappinglanguage neutral term extraction", in: Proceedings ofthe 7th international conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation, (LREC2010), Valletta, Mal-ta, May 17-23, 2010.Cybulska, Agata and Piek Vossen, ?Event models forHistorical Perspectives: Determining Relations be-tween High and Low Level Events in Text, Based onthe Classification of Time, Location and Partici-pants?, in Proceedings of LREC 2010, Valletta, Mal-ta, May 17-23, 2010Ide, Nancy and David Woolner, 2007, ?Historical On-tologies?, in: Ahmad, Khurshid, Brewster, Christo-pher, and Mark Stevenson (eds.
), Words andIntelligence II: Essays in Honor of Yorick Wilks,Springer, 137-152.Tanev, Hristo, Piskorski, Jakub and Martin Atkinson,?Real-Time News Event Extraction for Global CrisisMonitoring?, in NLDB 2008: Kapetanios, Epami-nondas, Sugumaran, Vijayan, Spiliopoulou, Myra(eds.)
Proceedings of the 13th International Confe-rence on Applications of Natural Language to Infor-mation Systems, 2008, Springer: LNCS, vol.
5039,pp.
207-218.Van Hage, Willem, Malais?, Veronique, Segers, Rox-ane, Hollink, Laura (fc), Design and use of the Sim-ple Event Model (SEM), the Journal of Web Seman-tics, ElsevierVossen, Piek, Agirre, Eneko, Calzolari, Nicoletta, Fell-baum, Christiane, Hsieh, Shu-kai, Huang, Chu-Ren,Isahara, Hitoshi, Kanzaki, Kyoko, Marchetti, Andrea,Monachini, Monica, Neri, Federico, Raffaelli, Remo,Rigau, German, Tescon, Maurizio, 2008a, "KYOTO:A system for Mining, Structuring and DistributingKnowledge Across Languages and Cultures", in:Proceedings of LREC 2008, Marrakech, Morocco,May 28-30, 2008.Vossen, Piek, Bosma, Wauter, Agirre, Eneko, Rigau,German and Aitor Soroa, 2010, "A full KnowledgeCycle for Semantic Interoperability", in: Proceedingsof the 5th Joint ISO-ACL/SIGSEM Workshop on In-teroperable Semantic Annotation, in conjunction withthe Second International Conference on Global Inte-roperability for Language Resources, (ICGL 2010),Hong Kong, January 15-17, 2010.Wunderwald, Martin, 2011, ?NewsX Event Extractionfrom News Articles?, diploma thesis, Dresden Uni-versity of Technology, Dresden, Germany, URL:http://www.rn.inf.tu-dres-den.de/uploads/Studentische_Arbeiten/Diplomarbeit_Wunderwald_Martin.pdfXu, Feiyu, Uszkoreit, Hans, Li, Hong, 2006.
?Automat-ic Event and Relation Detection with Seeds of Vary-ing Complexity?, in: Proceedings of the AAAI 2006Workshop Event Extraction and Synthesis, Boston,491-498.43
