Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2011: the 12th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 332?334,Portland, Oregon, June 17-18, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Incremental Architecture for the Semantic Annotation of DialogueCorpora with High-Level Structures.
A case of study for the MEDIA corpus.
?Lina Maria Rojas-Barahona and Matthieu QuignardLORIA/INRIA, France{lina.rojas,matthieu.Quignard}@loria.frAbstractThe semantic annotation of dialogue cor-pora permits building efficient language un-derstanding applications for supporting en-joyable and effective human-machine interac-tions.
Nevertheless, the annotation processcould be costly, time-consuming and compli-cated, particularly the more expressive is thesemantic formalism.
In this work, we proposea bootstrapping architecture for the semanticannotation of dialogue corpora with rich struc-tures, based on Dependency Syntax and FrameSemantics.1 IntroductionWe propose a cooperative architecture that incre-mentally generates and improves the annotation ofthe French MEDIA dialogue corpus with high-levelsemantics (HLS), as a result of the cooperation ofseveral linguistic modules.
MEDIA is a French cor-pus that has collected about 70 hours of spontaneousspeech from the task of hotel room reservation.
Itcontains transcribed utterances1 that have been man-ually segmented2 and annotated with a flat seman-tics i.e.,concept-value pairs (Bonneau-Maynard etal., 2005).
?This work is supported by the Agence Nationale de laRecherche (ANR) in France and is part of the French ProjectPORT-MEDIA.1Utterances with ellipsis, disfluencies, false starts, reformu-lations, repetitions and ungrammaticalities and special charac-ters such as the symbol ?*?
that indicates uncertainty due tonoise in the communication channel.2The term Segment means sequence of words in utterances.The HLS semantics, namely the MultiModal In-terface Language formalism (MMIL) (Denis et al,2010), augments the expressivity of the flat seman-tics by representing communicative actions, predi-cates, arguments and fine-grained features.
Commu-nicative actions are components built up from twotypes of entity (i.e.
events and participants), whichare linked together by relations and described bysets of features (attribute-value pairs).
It is possibleto identify in entities a set of main features, whichcan be domain-specific.
For the semantic annota-tion, components are mapped to segments in utter-ances.
Figure 1 shows the canonical representationof an utterance in the corpus in compliance with thespecifications for the annotation3.2 The ArchitectureThe architecture (Figure 2) for the automatic anno-tation has been formulated as a post-interpretationprocess that takes place after the syntactic analysisand semantic role labeling (SRL).
Two linguistic re-sources interact within the architecture, the corpusand the Frames4.
Four linguistic modules are in-volved in the annotation: the Part-Of-Speech (POS)tagger, the parsing, the semantic-role labeling (SRL)and the HLS Builder.
The common knowledge basecomprises two knowledge-bases (one for the domainand the other for the HLS formalism) together with arelational database management system (RDBMS).The knowledge bases assure the coherence of the an-3http://www.port-media.org/doku.php?id=mmil_for_annotating_media4Frames is the process in which the frames and frame ele-ments (FE) are defined.332SpeakRequestReserver(Reserve)Personne(People)Chambre(Room)indef.je (I)Ville(City)NiortpropContentpatientaObjetRe?serve?aBe?ne?ficiairesaLocalisationEntities Segment Features=ValueCommunicative Act:Request je voudrais ... a` NiortMain Event:Reserve faire une re?servationParticipant 1:Pronoun jeParticipant 2:Chambre d?
une chambreune refType=indefinitechambre objType=ChambreFigure 1: HLS representation for the French utterance ?je voudraisfaire une re?servation d?
une chambre pour une personne a` Niort?
(So Iwould like to make a reservation for a room for one person in Niort).It shows a request to reserve: the communicative action is Request themain event is Reserve.
Note that the beneficiary and the patient are twodifferent roles, the beneficiary is the person, not necessarily the samespeaker, who will use the object reserved (e.g.
rooms).
The patient isthe speaker.
The segmentation of the HLS Component is presented inthe Table, the component is mapped to the whole utterance.
The fine-grained segmentation of features is shown for the Participant 2.notation while the database assures persistence anddata integrity.
The database stores the corpus, theframes, the results at each level of analysis, as wellas the progress in the annotation.
The persistencepermits progressively optimizing the algorithms un-til the desired annotation is obtained and integratedinto the corpus files.
The corpus manager is incharge of the resources management.
Last but notleast, two annotation tools were built: one for theSRL gold standard (web-based) and the other for theHLS gold standard (standalone).Syntactic Analysis.
We decided to employ sta-tistical approaches that could learn the irregularitiesof spoken language: the French Tree-Tagger5 andthe dependency-based MALT-PARSER (Nivre et al,2007).
The parser has been trained with 1449 utter-ances annotated according to the annotation guide-lines described in (Cerisara and Gardent, 2009).5http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/?schmid/Figure 2: General Architecture for the HLS Annotation.Definition of Frames.
Frame Semantics, (Bakeret al, 1998) arranges common background knowl-edge for situations by grouping verbal, nominalcausative and non-causative predicates.
Neverthe-less, paraphrases are more used in spoken languagethan explicitly uttered nouns, adjectives or verbs forreferring to a situation (e.g.
?ask?, ?request?
or ?de-mand?).
Here we introduce the term: Frame Evok-ing Phrase (FEP) for evoking frames and we in-clude syntactic templates that mirror these phrasesin frames and frame elements (FE).
Table 1 summa-rizes the differences between PORT-MEDIA framesand FrameNet (Baker et al, 1998).FrameNet PORT-MEDIAFramesLexical Units Lexical Units, POS tags and templatesMEDIA Flat SemanticsFrame ElementsLexical Units, Phrase Type Lexical Units, POS tags, templatesand Grammatical Function and dependency relationSemantic Type Semantic Typeand MEDIA flat semanticsTable 1: Static Characteristics of Frames in FrameNetand in PORT-MEDIA.Semantic Role Labeling.
We built a rule-basedsemantic role labeling for detecting frames and FE(roles) by using dependency tree-template patternmatchers that exploit the information already com-pressed in frames.
The SRL detects the bound-aries of FEP and FE by measuring the syntactic andsemantic similarity between the utterance and theframe.HLS Builder.The HLS Builder is the last phase inthe annotation process: it is rule-based and it takesutterances in the corpus with their flat semantics, de-333pendency trees and predicates-arguments and buildsthe HLS representation (See Figure 1), according tothe specifications for the annotation and the knowl-edge bases.
The dialogue act and main event inHLS components can be detected from the predi-cates.
Similarly, secondary events and participantswith their features can be detected from the roles andthe flat semantics.3 Evaluation and DiscussionFor evaluating the system we separately com-puted the accuracy of its linguistic components.The parser achieved a label attachment score(LAS) (Nivre et al, 2007) of 86.16%, with a train-ing set of 1097 utterances and a test-set of 100 utter-ances.
The SRL was evaluated with metrics adaptedfrom the CONLL 2005 evaluation (Carreras andMa`rquez, 2005) for supporting FEP and allowingoverlapped FEP for different frames.
The LAS wascomputed by comparing the semantic dependenciesof system?s and gold?s propositions6 and their seg-ments.
The gold standard comprises 115 utterancesannotated with the major frames in the domain:Request, Reserve and Attributes.
The F1-measurecomputed for propositions with exactly the samesegments was 56.66%.
When verifying whether thesegments contain the same syntactic governor, theSRL achieves a better score: 71.30%.
Finally, vary-ing the number of excluded words in both segments7yielded a constant increase of the F1-measure un-til a maximum of 84.27%.
The HLS annotationwas evaluated by measuring the similarity betweengold?s and system?s components with a gold stan-dard of 330 complex utterances related to the reser-vation task.
When rigorously measuring the equal-ity of components8, we obtained a F1-measure of57.79%.
Measuring equality of components with-out being so rigorous with features?
segmentation,yielded a slightly higher score 63.31%.
Finally,when measuring equality of components by taking6A proposition is a structure containing the predicate, theirarguments and the semantic relation between them.7From 1 to n words not common in both segments.8Two HLS components are equal if their entities and rela-tions are equal.
Two entities are equal if they have the samesegment and features (feature name and feature value) and ifthese features are mapped to the same segments in the utter-ance.
Two relations are equal if they have the same source andtarget entities as well as the same nameinto account only the main features of entities, weobtained a higher score: 70.65%.We proposed an architecture for corpus manage-ment that allows incremental updates over persistentinformation until a more accurate semantic annota-tion is obtained.
The preliminary results show a gen-eral agreement when defining the main features andthe main entities in HLS components and a disagree-ment when segmenting fine-grained features.
Weobserved that the system tends to create new entitieswhen it detects repetitions or references in long ut-terances.
Defining a more precise segmentation pol-icy in the manual annotation guidelines, augmentingthe training data for parsing, as well as integratingreference resolution and disambiguation techniques,will enhance the annotation process.
An appealingresearch direction would be to integrate and evaluatemachine learning components in the architecture.ReferencesHe?le`ne Bonneau-Maynard and Matthieu Quignard andAlexandre Denis.
2005.
MEDIA: A semantically an-notated corpus of task oriented dialogs in French.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.Alexandre Denis and Lina M. Rojas-Barahona andMatthieu Quignard.
2010.
Extending MMIL Seman-tic Representation: Experiments in Dialogue Systemsand Semantic Annotation of Corpora.
In: Proceedingsof the Fifth ISO-ACL/SIGSEM Workshop on Interoper-able Semantic Annotation (ISA-5), Hong Kong.Collin Baker and Charles Fillmore and John Lowe.
1998.The Berkeley FrameNet Project.
Proceedings of the17th International Conference on Computational lin-guistics, 86?90.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Joakim Nivre and Johan Hall and Sandra Ku?bler andRyan McDonald and Jens Nilsson and SebastianRiedel and Deniz Yuret.
2007.
The CoNLL 2007Shared Task on Dependency Parsing.
Proceedings ofthe CoNLL Shared Task Session of EMNLP-CoNLL2007.
Prague, Czech Republic:915?932.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Christophe Cerisara and Claire Gardent.
2009.
Anal-yse syntaxique du franc?ais parle?.
Journe?e the?matiqueATALA Quels analyseurs syntaxiques pour le franc?ais.Xavier Carreras and Llu?
?s Ma`rquez.
2005.
Introduc-tion to the CoNLL-2005 shared task: Semantic rolelabeling.
CONLL ?05: Proceedings of the Ninth Con-ference on Computational Natural Language Learning.152?164.
Association for Computational Linguistics.334
