Proceedings of the ACL 2011 Workshop on Relational Models of Semantics (RELMS 2011), pages 11?18,Portland, Oregon, USA, June 23, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtraction of Semantic Word Relations in Turkish from DictionaryDefinitions?erbet?i Ay?e Orhan Zeynep Pehlivan ?lknurComputer EngineeringDepartmentComputer EngineeringDepartmentfirstnoor@gmail.comFatih University Fatih University34500Buyukcekmece, Istanbul,Turkey34500Buyukcekmece, Istanbul,Turkeyaserbetci@fatih.edu.tr zorhan@fatih.edu.trAbstractMany recent studies have been dedicated to theextraction of semantic connections betweenwords.
Using such information at semanticlevel is likely to improve the performance ofNatural Language Processing (NLP) systems,such as text categorization, question answering,information extraction, etc.
The scarcity of suchresources in Turkish, obstructs newimprovements.
There are many examples ofsemantic networks for English and otherwidely-used languages to lead the way forstudies in Turkish.
In this study, developing asemantic network for Turkish is aimed by usingstructural and string patterns in a dictionary.The results are promising, so thatapproximately two relations can be extractedfrom 3 definitions.
The overall accuracy is 86%if we consider the correct sense assignment,94% without considering word sensedisambiguation.1 IntroductionNowadays, the internet is the primary media,people use for communicating with each other andsharing their ideas with the rest of the world.Therefore, a massive amount of data is availablebut it is not understandable to computers.
Wideusage of the web brings some requirements tomake this data more beneficial for people.Understanding text from a foreign language oraccessing relevant ones among millions ofdocuments has become crucially important.However, due to the large size of data, it is verydifficult for human to maintain these tasks withoutrapid computer processing.
Automatic textsummarization, information extraction and textcategorization are all important NLP areas, whichaim to help humans benefit from computer systemsto perform these tasks.The process of obtaining robust computersystems capable of handling these tasks involvessupporting machines with semantic knowledge.The type of necessary knowledge depends on thetarget system.
Nevertheless, the information ofwhat kinds of relations exist between the wordscan be very useful for many purposes especiallyfor NLP applications.
Starting with the WordNetproject in 1985, semantic networks or lexicaldatabases have been among the important studyareas in NLP up to the present.
WordNet project(http://wordnet.princeton.edu/wordnet/download/).Obtaining a semantic network for Turkishlanguage is the goal of this study.
Since this studyis an initial step of developing a semantic networkin Turkish, basic relationship of hyponymy andsynonymy are primarily handled.
For this purpose,the investigation of dictionary definitions and themorphological richness of Turkish language areutilized.
Different types of relationships are shownin Table 1.
Since these relationships are very basic,they are likely to be used in various kinds of NLP11tasks.Various patterns are extracted from dictionaryby using both syntax and string features of thedefinitions.
Each definition represents particularsense of a word, so they can be considered asdifferent words.
For more accurate semanticanalysis, the connection between words should beestablished between appropriate senses of thewords.
To be more concrete, an example can begiven on the semantically ambiguous word as; y?z?face?
or ?hundred?.
When a has-a relation isdetected between the words v?cut ?body?
and y?z,the appropriate sense for y?z should be selected as?face?, instead of ?hundred?.Relationship ExampleIs-a(hyponymy) flower-plantSynonym-of initial-firstAntonym-of quick-slowMember-of academician-academyAmount-of kg-weightGroup-of forest-treeHas-a office-computerTable 1: Basic word relationshipsThe rest of the paper is organized as follows:Section 2 discusses the previous work in this field.Section 3 explains the implementation methods,details and approaches to some NLP problems, likemorphology or word sense ambiguity.
This sectionalso gives some statistics about the results.
Thefuture work to be performed for both improvingand extending the network is also discussed in thissection.
Section 4 evaluates the overall system.2 Previous WorkCyc (http://www.opencyc.org) project is one of thefirst attempts of obtaining computer accessibleworld knowledge.
Many other studies have beenperformed for constructing large lexical databasesor semantic networks by extracting the semanticconnections between words.In fact, both the number and types of thepossible relationships are not clearly identified inthis area.
However, there are some widely acceptedbasic relationships, which can be considered as thebackbone of semantic networks.
No matter whichmethod is followed for extracting theseconnections, most of the studies includingWordNet (Miller, 1995; Fellbaum, 1998) andConceptNet(Havasi et al, 2007) are based on thisset of specific relationships such as hyponymy,synonymy, meronymy etc.
These are the mostbasic but also the most informative ones among thecommon relation types.Some manual work has been performed at thebeginning for constructing this kind of semanticnetworks, including but not limited with Wordnet.Nowadays, however, semi or fully automaticsystems capable of performing these processes areworked on.
Different methods have been used fromcollecting online data to corpus analysis and fromdefining syntactical rules to string patterns.ConceptNet collects its data from Open MindCommon Sense Project(http://commons.media.mit.edu/en/), which is aweb-based collaboration (Havasi et al, 2007).Over 15,000 authors enter sentences to contributeto the project.
Users can answer questions via theweb interface, which aim to fill the gaps in theproject.
However, in the study of Nakov andHearts (2008), the whole web is treated like acorpus and the occurrences of the noun pairstogether are converted into feature vectors toperform a classification for semantic relations.There are various methods under the subject ofstring or structural patterns that represent specificsemantic relations.
Barriere(1997) investigatessome syntactical rules in her study and matches thedictionary definitions to these rules for figuring outthe relations.
Also, in some languages in whichprepositions are used frequently, some relationscan be extracted depending on the prepositions,like in the study of Celli and Nessim (2009).In addition, there are some studies which aim toextract some patterns for each relation for thepurpose of finding new instances.Turney?s study (2006) is a good example,which uses a corpus based method for finding highquality patterns.
It searches the noun pairs throughthe corpus to extract some row patterns.
Thepatterns are ranked by a ranking algorithm in orderto determine the most qualified patterns for thefurther steps.
Espresso (Pantel and Pennacchiotti,2006) is also concerned in finding patterns torepresent relations.
It starts with a few reliable seedof relations and iteratively learns the surfacepatterns in a given corpus.There is a lot of work to be done for Turkish inthis area.
Except one project (Bilgin et al, 2004),12which was performed and limited within the scopeof BalkaNet project, there is no significant work inthis area for Turkish.BalkaNet project is valuable in the sense ofbeing one of the first attempts for developingTurkish Wordnet.
It differs from our study in itsmethodology, which involves translation of basicconcepts in EuroWordNet and then using somestring patterns to extend the network.
In addition,target relationships and obtained results are quitedifferent and will be handled in the followingsections.Another work (?nder, 2009) which aimed toextract the relations from dictionary definitions byusing string patterns but was not completed,constructs the basics of our study.3 Experimental SetupIn this section, the implementation process isdiscussed in the following order of sub topics:?
Data?
Morphological features of Turkish?
Extracted patterns?
Morphological analysis and disambiguation?
Word sense disambiguation?
Stop word removal?
ResultsUsing a dictionary can ease the process ofextracting semantic relations in a language in manyaspects.
First of all, every word occurs in thedictionary at least once, hence the probability ofmissing a word decreases.
Secondly, it consists ofdefinitions of the words, which are relativelyinformative.
Lastly, the sentences in a dictionaryare generally simple and similar to each other.Therefore, they generally follow a set of syntacticpatterns.
This enables to perform easy detection ofrelations.For all the reasons listed above, a dictionary ofTurkish Language Association (TLA) is used inthis study.
There are 63110 words and 88268senses in this dictionary.
This concludes that nearly25000 of the words are ambiguous.
In Table 2, thedistributions of these words among the mostfrequent parts of speech are given.The first step is investigating the dictionarydefinitions manually in order to explore somepatterns which are likely to keep a particularsemantic relation inside.
The patterns should begeneral enough for obtaining a reasonable recall.
Inaddition, they should be specific enough not tocause low precision.
After a rough analysis, thedictionary is scanned for some row patterns toevaluate the results in terms of both accuracy andcomprehensiveness.
According to the results,either patterns are reorganized or some additionalfeatures are determined to be used for increasingthe number of matches and decreasing the errorrate.
Different kinds of features in the dictionarydefinitions and the words being explained are used.Morphological structures, noun clauses, clue wordsand the order of the words in the sentence are theexamples of these features.Part of Speech NumberNoun 56400Adjective 14554Adverb 3011Pronoun 104Verb 11408Table 2: The distributions of words in TLA dictionaryTurkish is an agglutinative language whichresults in a rich but rather complex morphologicalstructure.
Thus, the words do keep a veryimportant part of the sense.
They can be convertedfrom one part of speech into another by addingderivational suffixes.
For example, from the verbgelmek ?to come?
the adjective gelen ?the one whocomes?
can be derived.
This feature of Turkishconstructs the most important effect of increasingthe number of matches between patterns anddefinitions.
In addition, indefinite noun phrases aredetected with the help of morphological analysisand lots of relations are extracted as a result.
Theseare only a few examples of where morphology isused when extracting the relations.Some clue words in the definitions are alsosearched for.
In dictionaries, some similar wordsare explained by using the same words and theycan represent some specific relations.
To be moreconcrete, the adjectives that represent the oppositeof another adjective can be considered.
These typesof words are usually defined by using the wordsolmayan ?not?
and kar??t?
?opposite of?.
Forexample, in the definition of the word fantasik?fantastic?
there exists the phrase ger?ek olmayan13?not real?.
An antonymy relation can be establishedbetween the word fantastic ?fantastic?
and ger?ek?real?
as a result.
For some other types of relations,different words are detected and handled.
Forexample, for member-of relation, s?n?f?ndan ?fromthe class of?
; for is-a relation, t?r?
?type of?
areselected.Additionally, noun clauses, which are definedin the dictionary, are investigated.
Most of the timea noun phrase represents an ?is-a?
relation.
Theword bal?k ?fish?
and k?l??
bal???
?sword fish?
areboth in the dictionary and k?l??
bal???
?sword fish?is a noun phrase that has bal?k ?fish?
in it.
It isobvious that there is a connection between thewords k?l??
bal???
?sword fish?
and  bal?k ?fish?.Various patterns are obtained by using at leastone of the above features.
The obtained patternsfor each type of relation are shown in Table 3.When analyzing the table, the representatives to beconsidered are as follows: X and Y are used forrepresenting the words being connected to eachother, punc represents one of the specifiedpunctuations like comma or full stop, w*represents zero or more sequential words, w*no_punctrepresents zero or more sequential words withoutany punctuation inside, wx is a word which keeps aspecific part of speech x, depending on the pattern.The extracted relations for the provided worddefinitions are not limited with those mentioned inthe table.
If possible, two or more relations can beextracted from a single definition.
For instance,besides the ?member-of?
relation between ?akal?jackal?
and etoburlar ?carnivora?, a ?kind-of?relation is extracted also for ?akal ?jackal?
withhayvan ?animal?, since the definition matches withthe fourth pattern of ?kind-of?
relation.
Althoughonly the relation between pinhan ?latent?
and sakl??hidden?
is given, another synonymy relation isalso obtained from this pattern between pinhan?latent?
and gizli ?ulterior?.The morphological structures of the words areobtained by using Zemberek project(http://code.google.com/p/zemberek), which is anopen source morphological analyzer for Turkish.The analysis result of the word atan ?be assigned?or ?your ancestor?
or ?the one who throws?
isdisplayed with Figure 1.The morphological ambiguity is handled withtwo different methods.
Firstly, as a pre-processingstep, some suffixes are determined, which cannotoccur in the dictionary, such as time suffixes.
Theanalyses are pruned from those results that includeone or more of these suffixes.
Secondly, accordingto the pattern requirements, the convenient result isselected as the correct one.
For example, if a wordis required to have a particular chain of suffixes,the first result providing this necessity is selected.If there is no assumption, the first result is selectedby default.The relations are established between the exactsenses of the words in order to obtain a reliablenetwork.
Therefore, word sense disambiguationshould also be performed.
One of the words is notambiguous, since one of its particular senses(definition) is already being handled for most ofthe relations.
On the other hand, for the purpose ofdetermining the correct sense of the remainingword, simplified Lesk algorithm is used(Lesk,1986).
Simplified Lesk algorithm benefits from thesimilarity measurements between each sense of theambiguous word and the concept.
The algorithm isgiven in Figure 2 and the details are provided inthe http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lesk_algorithm.In order to obtain more accurate results,stemming and stop word removal is applied forboth relation extraction and word sensedisambiguation.
A connection can be establishedonly if both of the words are not stop words.
Stopwords are dictionary specific and obtained bycounting the occurrences of word stems in thedictionary.
Not all frequent stems are assumed tobe stop words but the useless ones among the allstems whose occurrences are above an upper limitare ignored.
There are 22 stop words specified,including i?in ?for?, ba?ka ?another?
and en ?themost?.The system was evaluated by manualcalculation of the accuracy.
Equal number ofsamples is chosen randomly from each pattern.Two types of accuracy were obtained, which arewith and without consideration of correct senseassignment.The obtained results are given in Table 4.
Thefirst accuracy column represents the accuracypercentage by considering whether the correctsense could be matched or not.
The second columnignores the senses and evaluates the results interms of the correct word relation only.14Relation  P no Pattern specification ExampleHyponymy1X: (w*) (wadj) (w*) Y punc (w*).where X is noun, Y is a noun root.
(X-Y)g?l: ?nceden denizken kurumalar, ?ekilmelery?z?nden g?l durumuna gelmi?
yer.
(g?l-yer)lake: a piece of land, previously existing as sea andbecoming dry due to droughts,  turns into a smallbody of water(lake-land)2X: (w*) (wadv) (w*no_punct) (Y) punc (w*)where X is verb, wadv is a derived adverb, Y is averb.
(X-Y)hicvetmek: Alay yoluyla yermek.
(hicvetmek-yermek)satirize: To criticize by mocking(satirize-criticize)3X Y : w*.where X and Y is an indefinite noun phrase(X Y-Y)ada ?ay?
: Bu bitkiden yap?lan s?cak i?ecek.
(ada ?ay?-?ay)sage tea: The tea that is made of this plant(sage tea-tea)4X: w* wnoun Y punc w*.where wnoun and Y compose a noun phrase.
(X-Y)post : T?yl?
hayvan derisi.
(post-deri)fur : Hairy animal skin.
(fur-skin)5X : w* Y t?r?
(kind of) | tipi(type of) | ?e?idi(sortof).where X and Y nouns(X-Y)limuzin: ?
?inde her t?rl?
donan?m bulunan l?ks, uzunve geni?
otomobil t?r?.
(limuzin-otomobil)limousine: The type of long, wide and luxuryautomobile in which there exist variousequipment(limousine- automobile)Synonymy1X : w* punc Ywhere X and Y are nouns, adverbs, or adjectives(X-Y)pinhan: Gizli, sakl?, gizlenmi?.(pinhan-sakl?
)latent: Ulterior, hidden, covert.
(latent-hidden)2Z : w* punc X, Y punc w*where X, Y have equal chain of suffixes and theyare verbs, adjectives or nouns(X-Y)raz?
: Uygun bulan, benimseyen, isteyen, kabul eden(benimsemek-istemek)willing : The one who approves, embraces, wants,agrees on sth.
(embrace-want)Group-of 1X: w* Y b?t?n?
(whole of) | toplulu?u(group of) |t?m?
(all of) | k?mesi(set of) | s?r?s?
(flock of) |birli?i(union of) w*where X and Y are nouns.
(X-Y)?lem: Hayvan veya bitkilerin b?t?n?.
(alem - bitki)kingdom : The whole of plants or animals.
(kingdom-plant)Antonym 1X: w* Y olmayan(not) | kar??t?
(the opposite of).where X and Y are nouns or adjectives.(X-Y)ac?
: Baz?
maddelerin dilde b?rakt???
yak?c?
duyu, tatl?kar??t?.
(ac?-tatl?
)bitter: The feeling of pain which some matters leaveon tongue, the opposite of sweet.
(bitter-sweet)Member-of1X: w* Y s?n?f?
(class of) | ?yesi(member of) |tak?m?
(set of).where X and Y are nouns(X-Y)senat?r: Senato ?yesi.
(senat?r-senato)senator: Member of senate.
(senator-senate)2X :  Ygillerden(from the family of Y) |Ylerden(from the family of Y) w*.where X and Y nouns.
(X-Y)?akal: Etoburlardan, s?r?
h?linde ya?ayan, kurttank??
?k bir yaban hayvan?.
(?akal-etobur)jackal: From carnivora, a kind of wild animalsmaller than wolf, which lives in flocks.
(jackal-carnivora)Amount-of 1X: w* Y miktar?
(amount-of) | ?l??s?
(measure-of) |birimi(unit-of) .where X and Y are nouns(X-Y)amper: Elektrik ak?m?nda ?iddet birimi.
(amper-?iddet)amper: The unit of intensity in electricalcurrent.
(amper- intensity)Has-a 1X: w* Y [wnoun] punc w*.where Y has the suffix of ?LI?,  X and Y are nouns(X-Y)sof : Bir ?e?it sert?e, ince y?nl?
kuma?.
(sof,y?n)alpaca : A kind of hard, thin, wooled cloth.
(alpaca,wool)Table 3: The obtained patterns for each type of relation151.
{Icerik:atan Kok:ata tip:FIIL} Ekler:FIIL_KOK+FIIL_EDILGENSESLI_N{Content : be assigned Root : assign Pos: Verb} Suffixes : Verb Root + Passive2.
{Icerik:atan Kok:ata tip:ISIM}  Ekler:ISIM_KOK+ISIM_SAHIPLIK_SEN_IN{Content : your ancestor Root : ancestor Pos: Noun} Suffixes : Noun Root + Possesive_you3.
{Icerik:atan Kok:at tip:FIIL}  Ekler:FIIL_KOK+ FIIL_DONUSUM_EN{Content : the one throws Root : throw Pos: Verb} Suffixes : Verb Root + ParticipleFigure 1: The morphological analysis result of the word atan(be assigned | your ancestor | the one who throws)function SIMPLIFIED LESK(word,sentence) returns best sense of wordbest-sense <- most frequent sense for wordmax-overlap <- 0context <- set of words in sentencefor each sense in senses of word dosignature <- set of words in the gloss and examples of senseoverlap <- COMPUTEOVERLAP (signature,context)if overlap > max-overlap thenmax-overlap <- overlapbest-sense <- senseend return (best-sense)Figure 2: Simplified Lesk algorithmRelation Pattern Number of Relations Accuracy % Accuracy(ambiguous) %Hyponymy1 20566 84 942 1448 84 893 5127 84 904 3502 74 955 387 90 96Synonymy 1 2313 76 88 2 22518 96 100Group-of 1 435 87 97Antonym 1 380 99 100Member-of 1 128 92 97 2 634 100 100Amount-of 1 119 81 92Has a 1 2430 82 89Total   59987 86,85 94,38NET   58125Table 4: The number of relations and the accuracy results for each relation and each pattern rule16It should be considered that the number ofrelations extracted per pattern is countedindividually in order to show the performance ofeach pattern separately.
Some of the relations canbe extracted by different patterns of that relationtype, so the net total, which is cleaned from therepetitions, is less than overall total.The results are promising in terms of both thecomprehensiveness and the accuracy.
If some moreeffort can be spent on word sense disambiguation,the accuracy may rise to a considerable ratio.
Thecomprehensiveness is intended to be increasedwith further work, which is discussed in thefollowing section.The numbers of relation instances are quitegreater when compared to BalkaNet project.
Thereare nearly 34,000 relation instances in the project,including the synonym relations among synsetmembers.
In this study 58,000 relations areavailable.
Also, it is more likely to be extendible,since not only string patterns but also structuralpatterns are benefitted from, which will beincreased with future work.4 ConclusionThe semantic relations between the words areextracted in order to develop a semantic network.Some basic relation types such as is-a, group-of,synonym-of, etc.
are targeted to obtain an initialnetwork to be extended with further work.The words are investigated according to theirdefinition in the TLA dictionary.
Some rowpatterns which consist of morphological features ofthe words, parts of speech or strings in somespecific positions and compound words aredefined.
After that, the dictionary is scanned forsearching the definitions that matches one of thesepatterns.
Depending on the results, patterns arereformed and additional features are inserted withthe purpose of increasing pattern quality andnumber of matches.
Exact senses of the words aretried to be matched by applying a word sensedisambiguation algorithm.The study has shown that, by taking advantageof the morphological richness of Turkish languageand using some structural patterns, it is possible toconstruct a reasonable semantic network.
Thisstudy can pave the way for more complex NLPapplications and can be used for improvingordinary processes such as word sensedisambiguation.
The network can be converted intoa knowledge base by inserting more accuraterelationships and investigating larger and morecomprehensive corpora as the future work.5 Future WorkThere is a set of processes to do both forimproving and extending the network.
Firstly, inorder to eliminate erroneous connections from theobtained network, statistical information such asco-occurrence of the words can be investigated.The assumption here is that if two words arerelated to each other, the possibility of their beingtogether in a corpus increases.
The existingconnections can be verified or ranked in terms oftheir reliability by using such information.In addition, to remove erroneous sensedetermination, word sense disambiguation methodcan be improved.
After obtaining a reliable, smallnetwork, which will serve as seed, new patternscan be extracted by following Turney (2006) andby using these patterns more instances can beextracted from larger corpora.
As an alternative,the words can be first tagged with concrete orabstract labels automatically.
This information canlimit the types of connections a word cancontribute.
For example, an abstract word cannotconnect to another word with a part-whole relation.For this task, a pre-processing step should beapplied to classify the words as concrete orabstract.In addition, with the purpose of improving thenetwork, some other resources will be benefittedfrom.
The existing patterns will be applied toWikipedia (http://www.wikipedia.org/) entries, byselecting only the definitions of the concepts.
Anadvantage of this process is that it can be re-performed periodically to keep the network up-to-date and dynamic.
Also, the number of relationtypes will be increased.
Currently, only the nouns,noun phrases consisting from two words,adjectives and verbs are handled.
Also, only therelationships within the same type of words areextracted that is, a noun can be connected only toanother noun, not an adjective or a verb.
Finergrained relationships can establish connectionsamong different parts of speech.17ReferencesBarri?re Caroline.
1997.
From a children?s firstdictionary to a lexical knowledge base ofconceptual graphs.
PhD thesis.
Simon FraserUniversity, Canada.Bilgin Orhan, ?etino?lu ?zlem, and OflazerKemal.
2004.
Morphosemantic Relations In andAcross Wordnets: A Preliminary Study Basedon Turkish.
Proceedings of the Global WordNetConference.
Masaryk, Czech Republic.http://people.sabanciuniv.edu/~oflazer/balkanet/twn_tr.htmCelli Fabio, Nissim Malvina.
2009.
Automaticidentification of semantic relations in Italiancomplex nominals.
Proceedings of the 8thInternational Conference on ComputationalSemantics, Tilburg.
pp.
45-60.Fellbaum, Christiane.
1998.
WordNet: AnElectronic Lexical Database.
Cambridge, MA:MIT Press.Havasi Catherina, Speer Robert, and Alonso B.Jason.
2007.
ConceptNet 3: a Flexible,Multilingual Semantic Network for CommonSense Knowledge.
Proceedings of the 22ndConference on Artificial Intelligence.Lesk, E. Micheal.
1986.
Automatic sensedisambiguation using machine readabledictionaries: how to tell a pine cone from an icecream cone.
In SIGDOC '86: Proceedings of the5th annual international conference on Systemsdocumentation, pages 24-26, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.Miller, George A.
1995.
WordNet: A LexicalDatabase for English.
Communications of theACM Vol.
38, No.
11: 39-41.Nakov Preslav, Hearts A. Marti.
2008.
SolvingRelational Similarity Problems Using the Webas a Corpus, Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT,Columbus, Ohio, USA.
pp.
452?460.Pantel Patrick, Pennacchiotti Marco.
2006.Espresso: Leveraging Generic Patterns forAutomatically Harvesting Semantic Relations,Proceedings of the 21st International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics and 44th AnnualMeeting of the ACL.
Sydney, Australia.
pp.113-120.Turney D. Peter.
2006.
Expressing implicitsemantic relations without supervision.Proceedings of the 21st International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics and 44th AnnualMeeting of the ACL.
Sydney, Australia.
pp.313-320.
?nder P?nar.
2009.
Design and Implementation ofthe semantic Turkish Language and DialectsDictionary.
MS thesis.
Fatih University,?stanbul.18
