Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 70?79,24 June, 2011, Portland, Oregon, USA c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsTracking Sentiment in Mail:How Genders Differ on Emotional AxesSaif M. Mohammad?
and Tony (Wenda) Yang?
?Institute for Information Technology, National Research Council Canada?.Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, K1A 0R6.School of Computing Science, Simon Fraser University?Burnaby, British Columbia, V5A 1S6.saif.mohammad@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca, wenday@sfu.caAbstractWith the widespread use of email, we nowhave access to unprecedented amounts of textthat we ourselves have written.
In this pa-per, we show how sentiment analysis can beused in tandem with effective visualizations toquantify and track emotions in many types ofmail.
We create a large word?emotion associ-ation lexicon by crowdsourcing, and use it tocompare emotions in love letters, hate mail,and suicide notes.
We show that there aremarked differences across genders in how theyuse emotion words in work-place email.
Forexample, women use many words from thejoy?sadness axis, whereas men prefer termsfrom the fear?trust axis.
Finally, we show vi-sualizations that can help people track emo-tions in their emails.1 IntroductionEmotions are central to our well-being, yet it is hardto be objective of one?s own emotional state.
Lettershave long been a channel to convey emotions, ex-plicitly and implicitly, and now with the widespreadusage of email, people have access to unprecedentedamounts of text that they themselves have writtenand received.
In this paper, we show how sentimentanalysis can be used in tandem with effective visu-alizations to track emotions in letters and emails.Automatic analysis and tracking of emotions inemails has a number of benefits including:1.
Determining risk of repeat attempts by analyz-ing suicide notes (Osgood and Walker, 1959;Matykiewicz et al, 2009; Pestian et al, 2008).12.
Understanding how genders communicatethrough work-place and personal email(Boneva et al, 2001).3.
Tracking emotions towards people and entities,over time.
For example, did a certain manage-rial course bring about a measurable change inone?s inter-personal communication?4.
Determining if there is a correlation betweenthe emotional content of letters and changesin a person?s social, economic, or physiologi-cal state.
Sudden and persistent changes in theamount of emotion words in mail may be a signof psychological disorder.5.
Enabling affect-based search.
For example, ef-forts to improve customer satisfaction can ben-efit by searching the received mail for snippetsexpressing anger (D?
?az and Ruz, 2002; Dube?and Maute, 1996).6.
Assisting in writing emails that convey onlythe desired emotion, and avoiding misinterpre-tation (Liu et al, 2003).7.
Analyzing emotion words and their role in per-suasion in communications by fervent letterwriters such as Francois-Marie Arouet Voltaireand Karl Marx (Voltaire, 1973; Marx, 1982).2In this paper, we describe how we created a largeword?emotion association lexicon by crowdsourc-ing with effective quality control measures (Section1The 2011 Informatics for Integrating Biology and the Bed-side (i2b2) challenge by the National Center for BiomedicalComputing is on detecting emotions in suicide notes.2Voltaire: http://www.whitman.edu/VSA/lettersMarx: http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/date703).
In Section 4, we show comparative analyses ofemotion words in love letters, hate mail, and sui-cide notes.
This is done: (a) To determine the dis-tribution of emotion words in these types of mail,as a first step towards more sophisticated emotionanalysis (for example, in developing a depression?happiness scale for Application 1), and (b) To usethese corpora as a testbed to establish that the emo-tion lexicon and the visualizations we propose helpinterpret the emotions in text.
In Section 5, we ana-lyze how men and women differ in the kinds of emo-tion words they use in work-place email (Applica-tion 2).
Finally, in Section 6, we show how emotionanalysis can be integrated with email services suchas Gmail to help people track emotions in the emailsthey send and receive (Application 3).The emotion analyzer recognizes words with pos-itive polarity (expressing a favorable sentiment to-wards an entity), negative polarity (expressing anunfavorable sentiment towards an entity), and no po-larity (neutral).
It also associates words with joy,sadness, anger, fear, trust, disgust, surprise, antici-pation, which are argued to be the eight basic andprototypical emotions (Plutchik, 1980).2 Related workOver the last decade, there has been considerablework in sentiment analysis, especially in determin-ing whether a term has a positive or negative polar-ity (Lehrer, 1974; Turney and Littman, 2003; Mo-hammad et al, 2009).
There is also work in moresophisticated aspects of sentiment, for example, indetecting emotions such as anger, joy, sadness, fear,surprise, and disgust (Bellegarda, 2010; Mohammadand Turney, 2010; Alm et al, 2005; Alm et al,2005).
The technology is still developing and it canbe unpredictable when dealing with short sentences,but it has been shown to be reliable when drawingconclusions from large amounts of text (Dodds andDanforth, 2010; Pang and Lee, 2008).Automatically analyzing affect in emails has pri-marily been done for automatic gender identifica-tion (Cheng et al, 2009; Corney et al, 2002), butit has relied on mostly on surface features suchas exclamations and very small emotion lexicons.The WordNet Affect Lexicon (WAL) (Strapparavaand Valitutti, 2004) has a few hundred words anno-tated with associations to a number of affect cate-gories including the six Ekman emotions (joy, sad-ness, anger, fear, disgust, and surprise).3 GeneralInquirer (GI) (Stone et al, 1966) has 11,788 wordslabeled with 182 categories of word tags, includ-ing positive and negative polarity.4 Affective Normsfor English Words (ANEW) has pleasure (happy?unhappy), arousal (excited?calm), and dominance(controlled?in control) ratings for 1034 words.5 Mo-hammad and Turney (2010) compiled emotion an-notations for about 4000 words with eight emotions(six of Ekman, trust, and anticipation).3 Emotion Analysis3.1 Emotion LexiconWe created a large word?emotion association lex-icon by crowdsourcing to Amazon?s mechanicalTurk.6 We follow the method outlined in Mo-hammad and Turney (2010).
Unlike Mohammadand Turney, who used the Macquarie Thesaurus(Bernard, 1986), we use the Roget Thesaurus as thesource for target terms.7 Since the 1911 US editionof Roget?s is available freely in the public domain, itallows us to distribute our emotion lexicon withoutthe burden of restrictive licenses.
We annotated onlythose words that occurred more than 120,000 timesin the Google n-gram corpus.8The Roget?s Thesaurus groups related words intoabout a thousand categories, which can be thought ofas coarse senses or concepts (Yarowsky, 1992).
If aword is ambiguous, then it is listed in more than onecategory.
Since a word may have different emotionassociations when used in different senses, we ob-tained annotations at word-sense level by first ask-ing an automatically generated word-choice ques-tion pertaining to the target:Q1.
Which word is closest in meaning to shark (target)??
car ?
tree ?
fish ?
oliveThe near-synonym is taken from the thesaurus, andthe distractors are randomly chosen words.
This3WAL: http://wndomains.fbk.eu/wnaffect.html4GI: http://www.wjh.harvard.edu/?inquirer5ANEW: http://csea.phhp.ufl.edu/media/anewmessage.html6Mechanical Turk: www.mturk.com/mturk/welcome7Macquarie Thesaurus: www.macquarieonline.com.auRoget?s Thesaurus: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/106818The Google n-gram corpus is available through the LDC.71question guides the annotator to the desired senseof the target word.
It is followed by ten questionsasking if the target is associated with positive senti-ment, negative sentiment, anger, fear, joy, sadness,disgust, surprise, trust, and anticipation.
The ques-tions are phrased exactly as described in Mohammadand Turney (2010).If an annotator answers Q1 incorrectly, then wediscard information obtained from the remainingquestions.
Thus, even though we do not have cor-rect answers to the emotion association questions,likely incorrect annotations are filtered out.
About10% of the annotations were discarded because ofan incorrect response to Q1.Each term is annotated by 5 different people.
For74.4% of the instances, all five annotators agreed onwhether a term is associated with a particular emo-tion or not.
For 16.9% of the instances four out offive people agreed with each other.
The informa-tion from multiple annotators for a particular termis combined by taking the majority vote.
The lexi-con has entries for about 24,200 word?sense pairs.The information from different senses of a word iscombined by taking the union of all emotions asso-ciated with the different senses of the word.
Thisresulted in a word-level emotion association lexiconfor about 14,200 word types.
These files are to-gether referred to as the NRC Emotion Lexicon ver-sion 0.92.3.2 Text AnalysisGiven a target text, the system determines which ofthe words exist in our emotion lexicon and calculatesratios such as the number of words associated withan emotion to the total number of emotion words inthe text.
This simple approach may not be reliablein determining if a particular sentence is expressinga certain emotion, but it is reliable in determiningif a large piece of text has more emotional expres-sions compared to others in a corpus.
Example ap-plications include detecting spikes in anger wordsin close proximity to mentions of a target productin a twitter stream (D?
?az and Ruz, 2002; Dube?
andMaute, 1996), and literary analyses of text, for ex-ample, how novels and fairy tales differ in the use ofemotion words (Mohammad, 2011b).4 Love letters, hate mail, and suicide notesIn this section, we quantitatively compare the emo-tion words in love letters, hate mail, and suicidenotes.
We compiled a love letters corpus (LLC) v 0.1by extracting 348 postings from lovingyou.com.9We created a hate mail corpus (HMC) v 0.1 by col-lecting 279 pieces of hate mail sent to the MilleniumProject.10 The suicide notes corpus (SNC) v 0.1 has21 notes taken from Art Kleiner?s website.11 We willcontinue to add more data to these corpora as we findthem, and all three corpora are freely available.Figures 1, 2, and 3 show the percentages of pos-itive and negative words in the love letters corpus,hate mail corpus, and the suicide notes corpus.
Fig-ures 5, 6, and 7 show the percentages of differ-ent emotion words in the three corpora.
Emotionsare represented by colours as per a study on word?colour associations (Mohammad, 2011a).
Figure 4is a bar graph showing the difference of emotion per-centages in love letters and hate mail.
Observe thatas expected, love letters have many more joy andtrust words, whereas hate mail has many more fear,sadness, disgust, and anger.The bar graph is effective at conveying the extentto which one emotion is more prominent in one textthan another, but it does not convey the source ofthese emotions.
Therefore, we calculate the rela-tive salience of an emotion word w across two targettexts T1 and T2:RelativeSalience(w|T1, T2) =f1N1?f2N2(1)Where, f1 and f2 are the frequencies of w in T1 andT2, respectively.
N1 and N2 are the total numberof word tokens in T1 and T2.
Figure 8 depicts arelative-salience word cloud of joy words in the loveletters corpus with respect to the hate mail corpus.As expected, love letters, much more than hate mail,have terms such as loving, baby, beautiful, feeling,and smile.
This is a nice sanity check of the man-ually created emotion lexicon.
We used Google?sfreely available software to create the word cloudsshown in this paper.129LLC: http://www.lovingyou.com/content/inspiration/loveletters-topic.php?ID=loveyou10HMC: http://www.ratbags.com11SNC: http://www.well.com/ art/suicidenotes.html?w12Google WordCloud: http://visapi-gadgets.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/wordcloud/doc.html72Figure 1: Percentage of positive and negative words inthe love letters corpus.Figure 2: Percentage of positive and negative words inthe hate mail corpus.Figure 3: Percentage of positive and negative words inthe suicide notes corpus.Figure 4: Difference in percentages of emotion words inthe love letters corpus and the hate mail corpus.
Therelative-salience word cloud for the joy bar is shown inthe figure to the right (Figure 8).Figure 5: Percentage of emotion words in the love letterscorpus.Figure 6: Percentage of emotion words in the hate mailcorpus.Figure 7: Percentage of emotion words in the suicidenotes corpus.Figure 8: Love letters corpus - hate mail corpus: relative-salience word cloud for joy.73Figure 9: Difference in percentages of emotion words inthe love letters corpus and the suicide notes corpus.Figure 10: Difference in percentages of emotion words inthe suicide notes corpus and the hate mail corpus.Figure 9 is a bar graph showing the difference inpercentages of emotion words in love letters and sui-cide notes.
The most salient fear words in the suicidenotes with respect to love letters, in decreasing or-der, were: hell, kill, broke, worship, sorrow, afraid,loneliness, endless, shaking, and devil.Figure 10 is a similar bar graph, but for suicidenotes and hate mail.
Figure 11 depicts a relative-salience word cloud of disgust words in the hate mailcorpus with respect to the suicide notes corpus.
Thecloud shows many words that seem expected, forexample ignorant, quack, fraudulent, illegal, lying,and damage.
Words such as cancer and disease areprominent in this hate mail corpus because the Mil-lenium Project denigrates various alternative treat-ment websites for cancer and other diseases, andconsequently receives angry emails from some can-cer patients and physicians.5 Emotions in email: men vs. womenThere is a large amount of work at the intersection ofgender and language (see bibliographies compiledby Schiffman (2002) and Sunderland et al (2002)).It is widely believed that men and women use lan-guage differently, and this is true even in computermediated communications such as email (Boneva etal., 2001).
It is claimed that women tend to fosterFigure 11: Suicide notes - hate mail: relative-salienceword cloud for disgust.personal relations (Deaux and Major, 1987; Eaglyand Steffen, 1984) whereas men communicate forsocial position (Tannen, 1991).
Women tend to shareconcerns and support others (Boneva et al, 2001)whereas men prefer to talk about activities (Caldwelland Peplau, 1982; Davidson and Duberman, 1982).There are also claims that men tend to be more con-frontational and challenging than women.13Otterbacher (2010) investigated stylistic differ-ences in how men and women write product re-views.
Thelwall et al (2010) examine how men andwomen communicate over social networks such asMySpace.
Here, for the first time using an emotionlexicon of more than 14,000 words, we investigateif there are gender differences in the use of emo-tion words in work-place communications, and if so,whether they support some of the claims mentionedin the above paragraph.
The analysis shown here,does not prove the propositions; however, it providesempirical support to the claim that men and womenuse emotion words to different degrees.We chose the Enron email corpus (Klimt andYang, 2004)14 as the source of work-place commu-nications because it remains the only large publiclyavailable collection of emails.
It consists of morethan 200,000 emails sent between October 1998 andJune 2002 by 150 people in senior managerial posi-13http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/newstopics/howaboutthat/6272105/Why-men-write-short-email-and-women-write-emotional-messages.html14The Enron email corpus is available at http://www-2.cs.cmu.edu/ enron74Figure 12: Difference in percentages of emotion words inemails sent by women and emails sent by men.Figure 13: Emails by women - emails by men: relative-salience word cloud of trust.tions at the Enron Corporation, a former Americanenergy, commodities, and services company.
Theemails largely pertain to official business but alsocontain personal communication.In addition to the body of the email, the corpusprovides meta-information such as the time stampand the email addresses of the sender and receiver.Just as in Cheng et al (2009), (1) we removed emailswhose body had fewer than 50 words or more than200 words, (2) the authors manually identified thegender of each of the 150 people solely from theirnames.
If the name was not a clear indicator ofgender, then the person was marked as ?gender-untagged?.
This process resulted in tagging 41 em-ployees as female and 89 as male; 20 were leftgender-untagged.
Emails sent from and to gender-untagged employees were removed from all furtheranalysis, leaving 32,045 mails (19,920 mails sentby men and 12,125 mails sent by women).
Wethen determined the number of emotion words inemails written by men, in emails written by women,in emails written by men to women, men to men,women to men, and women to women.Figure 14: Difference in percentages of emotion words inemails sent to women and emails sent to men.Figure 15: Emails to women - emails to men: relative-salience word cloud of joy.5.1 AnalysisFigure 12 shows the difference in percentages ofemotion words in emails sent by men from the per-centage of emotion words in emails sent by women.Observe the marked difference is in the percentageof trust words.
The men used many more trust wordsthan women.
Figure 13 shows the relative-salienceword cloud of these trust words.Figure 14 shows the difference in percentages ofemotion words in emails sent to women and the per-centage of emotion words in emails sent to men.
Ob-serve the marked difference once again in the per-centage of trust words and joy words.
The men re-ceive emails with more trust words, whereas womenreceive emails with more joy words.
Figure 15shows the relative-salience word cloud of joy.Figure 16 shows the difference in emotion wordsin emails sent by men to women and the emotions inmails sent by men to men.
Apart from trust words,there is a marked difference in the percentage of an-ticipation words.
The men used many more antic-ipation words when writing to women, than whenwriting to other men.
Figure 17 shows the relative-75Figure 16: Difference in percentages of emotion words inemails sent by men to women and by men to men.Figure 17: Emails by men to women - email by men tomen: relative-salience word cloud of anticipation.salience word cloud of these anticipation words.Figures 18, 19, 20, and 21 show difference bargraphs and relative-salience word clouds analyzingsome other possible pairs of correspondences.5.2 DiscussionFigures 14, 16, 18, and 20 support the claim thatwhen writing to women, both men and women usemore joyous and cheerful words than when writingto men.
Figures 14, 16 and 18 show that both menand women use lots of trust words when writing tomen.
Figures 12, 18, and 20 are consistent withthe notion that women use more cheerful words inemails than men.
The sadness values in these fig-ures are consistent with the claim that women tendto share their worries with other women more of-ten than men with other men, men with women, andwomen with men.
The fear values in the Figures 16and 20 suggest that men prefer to use a lot of fearwords, especially when communicating with othermen.
Thus, women communicate relatively more onthe joy?sadness axis, whereas men have a preferencefor the trust?fear axis.
It is interesting how there is amarkedly higher percentage of anticipation words incross-gender communication than in same-sex com-munication (Figures 16, 18, and 20).Figure 18: Difference in percentages of emotion words inemails sent by women to women and by women to men.Figure 19: Emails by women to women - emails bywomen to men: relative-salience word cloud of sadness.6 Tracking Sentiment in Personal EmailIn the previous section, we showed analyses of setsof emails that were sent across a network of individ-uals.
In this section, we show visualizations cateredtoward individuals?who in most cases have accessto only the emails they send and receive.
We are us-ing Google Apps API to develop an application thatintegrates with Gmail (Google?s email service), toprovide users with the ability to track their emotionstowards people they correspond with.15 Below weshow some of these visualizations by selecting JohnArnold, a former employee at Enron, as a stand-infor the actual user.Figure 22 shows the percentage of positive andnegative words in emails sent by John Arnold to hiscolleagues.
John can select any of the bars in the fig-ure to reveal the difference in percentages of emo-tion words in emails sent to that particular personand all the emails sent out.
Figure 23 shows thegraph pertaining to Andy Zipper.
Figure 24 showsthe percentage of positive and negative words ineach of the emails sent by John to Andy.In the future, we will make a public call for vol-15Google Apps API: http://code.google.com/googleapps/docs76Figure 20: Difference in percentages of emotion words inemails sent by men to men and by women to women.unteers interested in our Gmail emotion application,and we will request access to numbers of emotionwords in their emails for a large-scale analysis ofemotion words in personal email.
The applicationwill protect the privacy of the users by passing emo-tion word frequencies, gender, and age, but no text,names, or email ids.7 ConclusionsWe have created a large word?emotion associationlexicon by crowdsourcing, and used it to analyze andtrack the distribution of emotion words in mail.16We compared emotion words in love letters, hatemail, and suicide notes.
We analyzed work-placeemail and showed that women use and receive arelatively larger number of joy and sadness words,whereas men use and receive a relatively larger num-ber of trust and fear words.
We also found thatthere is a markedly higher percentage of anticipa-tion words in cross-gender communication (men towomen and women to men) than in same-sex com-munication.
We showed how different visualizationsand word clouds can be used to effectively inter-pret the results of the emotion analysis.
Finally, weshowed additional visualizations and a Gmail appli-cation that can help people track emotion words inthe emails they send and receive.AcknowledgmentsGrateful thanks to Peter Turney and Tara Small formany wonderful ideas.
Thanks to the thousands ofpeople who answered the emotion survey with dili-gence and care.
This research was funded by Na-tional Research Council Canada.16Please send an e-mail to saif.mohammad@nrc-cnrc.gc.cato obtain the latest version of the NRC Emotion Lexicon, sui-cide notes corpus, hate mail corpus, love letters corpus, or theEnron gender-specific emails.Figure 21: Emails by men to men - emails by women towomen: relative-salience word cloud of fear.Figure 22: Emails sent by John Arnold.Figure 23: Difference in percentages of emotion wordsin emails sent by John Arnold to Andy Zipper and emailssent by John to all.Figure 24: Emails sent by John Arnold to Andy Zipper.77ReferencesCecilia Ovesdotter Alm, Dan Roth, and Richard Sproat.2005.
Emotions from text: Machine learning for text-based emotion prediction.
In Proceedings of the JointConference on HLT?EMNLP, Vancouver, Canada.Jerome Bellegarda.
2010.
Emotion analysis using la-tent affective folding and embedding.
In Proceedingsof the NAACL-HLT 2010 Workshop on ComputationalApproaches to Analysis and Generation of Emotion inText, Los Angeles, California.J.R.L.
Bernard, editor.
1986.
The Macquarie Thesaurus.Macquarie Library, Sydney, Australia.Bonka Boneva, Robert Kraut, and David Frohlich.
2001.Using e-mail for personal relationships.
American Be-havioral Scientist, 45(3):530?549.Mayta A. Caldwell and Letitia A. Peplau.
1982.
Sexdifferences in same-sex friendships.
Sex Roles, 8:721?732.Na Cheng, Xiaoling Chen, R. Chandramouli, and K.P.Subbalakshmi.
2009.
Gender identification from e-mails.
In Computational Intelligence and Data Min-ing, 2009.
CIDM ?09.
IEEE Symposium on, pages 154?158.Malcolm Corney, Olivier de Vel, Alison Anderson, andGeorge Mohay.
2002.
Gender-preferential text min-ing of e-mail discourse.
Computer Security Applica-tions Conference, Annual, 0:282?289.Lynne R. Davidson and Lucile Duberman.
1982.Friendship: Communication and interactional pat-terns in same-sex dyads.
Sex Roles, 8:809?822.10.1007/BF00287852.Kay Deaux and Brenda Major.
1987.
Putting genderinto context: An interactive model of gender-relatedbehavior.
Psychological Review, 94(3):369?389.Ana B. Casado D?
?az and Francisco J. Ma?s Ruz.
2002.The consumers reaction to delays in service.
In-ternational Journal of Service Industry Management,13(2):118?140.Peter Dodds and Christopher Danforth.
2010.
Measuringthe happiness of large-scale written expression: Songs,blogs, and presidents.
Journal of Happiness Studies,11:441?456.
10.1007/s10902-009-9150-9.Laurette Dube?
and Manfred F. Maute.
1996.
The an-tecedents of brand switching, brand loyalty and ver-bal responses to service failure.
Advances in ServicesMarketing and Management, 5:127?151.Alice H. Eagly and Valerie J. Steffen.
1984.
Genderstereotypes stem from the distribution of women andmen into social roles.
Journal of Personality and So-cial Psychology, 46(4):735?754.Bryan Klimt and Yiming Yang.
2004.
Introducing theenron corpus.
In CEAS.Adrienne Lehrer.
1974.
Semantic fields and lexicalstructure.
North-Holland, American Elsevier, Ams-terdam, NY.Hugo Liu, Henry Lieberman, and Ted Selker.
2003.A model of textual affect sensing using real-worldknowledge.
In Proceedings of the 8th internationalconference on Intelligent user interfaces, IUI ?03,pages 125?132, New York, NY.
ACM.Karl Marx.
1982.
The Letters of Karl Marx.
PrenticeHall.Pawel Matykiewicz, Wlodzislaw Duch, and John P. Pes-tian.
2009.
Clustering semantic spaces of suicidenotes and newsgroups articles.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Current Trends in Biomedical NaturalLanguage Processing, BioNLP ?09, pages 179?184,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Saif M. Mohammad and Peter D. Turney.
2010.
Emo-tions evoked by common words and phrases: Usingmechanical turk to create an emotion lexicon.
In Pro-ceedings of the NAACL-HLT 2010 Workshop on Com-putational Approaches to Analysis and Generation ofEmotion in Text, LA, California.Saif Mohammad, Cody Dunne, and Bonnie Dorr.
2009.Generating high-coverage semantic orientation lexi-cons from overtly marked words and a thesaurus.
InProceedings of Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing (EMNLP-2009), pages 599?608,Singapore.Saif M. Mohammad.
2011a.
Even the abstract havecolour: Consensus in wordcolour associations.
In Pro-ceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics: Human LanguageTechnologies, Portland, OR, USA.Saif M. Mohammad.
2011b.
From once upon a time tohappily ever after: Tracking emotions in novels andfairy tales.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2011 Work-shop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage,Social Sciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH), Portland,OR, USA.Charles E. Osgood and Evelyn G. Walker.
1959.
Mo-tivation and language behavior: A content analysis ofsuicide notes.
Journal of Abnormal and Social Psy-chology, 59(1):58?67.Jahna Otterbacher.
2010.
Inferring gender of movie re-viewers: exploiting writing style, content and meta-data.
In Proceedings of the 19th ACM internationalconference on Information and knowledge manage-ment, CIKM ?10, pages 369?378, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2008.
Opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
Foundations and Trends in Infor-mation Retrieval, 2(1?2):1?135.78John P. Pestian, Pawel Matykiewicz, and JacquelineGrupp-Phelan.
2008.
Using natural language pro-cessing to classify suicide notes.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Current Trends in Biomedical Natu-ral Language Processing, BioNLP ?08, pages 96?97,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Robert Plutchik.
1980.
A general psychoevolutionarytheory of emotion.
Emotion: Theory, research, andexperience, 1(3):3?33.Harold Schiffman.
2002.
Bibliography of gender andlanguage.
In http://www.sas.upenn.edu/?haroldfs/popcult/bibliogs/gender/genbib.htm.Philip Stone, Dexter C. Dunphy, Marshall S. Smith,Daniel M. Ogilvie, and associates.
1966.
The GeneralInquirer: A Computer Approach to Content Analysis.The MIT Press.Carlo Strapparava and Alessandro Valitutti.
2004.Wordnet-Affect: An affective extension of WordNet.In Proceedings of the 4th International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-2004),pages 1083?1086, Lisbon, Portugal.Jane Sunderland, Ren-Feng Duann, and Paul Baker.2002.
Gender and genre bibliography.
Inhttp://www.ling.lancs.ac.uk/pubs/clsl/clsl122.pdf.Deborah Tannen.
1991.
You just don?t understand :women and men in conversation.
Random House.Mike Thelwall, David Wilkinson, and Sukhvinder Uppal.2010.
Data mining emotion in social network commu-nication: Gender differences in myspace.
J.
Am.
Soc.Inf.
Sci.
Technol., 61:190?199, January.Peter Turney and Michael Littman.
2003.
Measuringpraise and criticism: Inference of semantic orientationfrom association.
ACM Transactions on InformationSystems (TOIS), 21(4):315?346.Francois-Marie Arouet Voltaire.
1973.
The selectedletters of Voltaire.
New York University Press, NewYork.David Yarowsky.
1992.
Word-sense disambiguation us-ing statistical models of Roget?s categories trained onlarge corpora.
In Proceedings of the 14th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COLING-92), pages 454?460, Nantes, France.79
