Proceedings of EMNLP 2011, Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 30?38,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 27?31, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsSyntactic transformations for Swiss German dialectsYves ScherrerLATLUniversite?
de Gene`veGeneva, Switzerlandyves.scherrer@unige.chAbstractWhile most dialectological research so far fo-cuses on phonetic and lexical phenomena, weuse recent fieldwork in the domain of dia-lect syntax to guide the development of mul-tidialectal natural language processing tools.In particular, we develop a set of rules thattransform Standard German sentence struc-tures into syntactically valid Swiss Germansentence structures.
These rules are sensitiveto the dialect area, so that the dialects of morethan 300 towns are covered.
We evaluate thetransformation rules on a Standard Germantreebank and obtain accuracy figures of 85%and above for most rules.
We analyze the mostfrequent errors and discuss the benefit of thesetransformations for various natural languageprocessing tasks.1 IntroductionFor over a century, dialectological research has fo-cused on phonetic, lexical and morphological phe-nomena.
It is only recently, since the 1990s, thatsyntax has gained the attraction of dialectologists.As a result, syntactic data from field studies are nowavailable for many dialect areas.
This paper exploreshow dialect syntax fieldwork can guide the develop-ment of multidialectal natural language processingtools.
Our goal is to transform Standard Germansentence structures so that they become syntacticallyvalid in Swiss German dialects.11Here, we do not take into account the phonetic, morpholog-ical and lexical changes involved in generating the actual SwissGerman word forms.
For such a model, see for example Scher-rer and Rambow (2010a).These transformations are accomplished by a setof hand-crafted rules, developed and evaluated onthe basis of the dependency version of the StandardGerman TIGER treebank.
Ultimately, the rule setcan be used either as a tool for treebank transduction(i.e.
deriving Swiss German treebanks from Stan-dard German ones), or as the syntactic transfer mod-ule of a transfer-based machine translation system.After the discussion of related work (Section 2),we present the major syntactic differences betweenStandard German and Swiss German dialects (Sec-tion 3).
We then show how these differences canbe covered by a set of transformation rules that ap-ply to syntactically annotated Standard German text,such as found in treebanks (Section 4).
In Section5, we give some coverage figures and discuss themost common errors that result from these transfor-mations.
We conclude in Section 6.2 Related workOne line of research in natural language processingdeals with parsing methods for dialects.
Chiang etal.
(2006) argue that it is often easier to manuallycreate resources that relate a dialect to a standardlanguage than it is to manually create syntacticallyannotated resources for the dialect itself.
They in-vestigate three approaches for parsing the Levantinedialect of Arabic, one of which consists of transduc-ing a Standard Arabic treebank into Levantine withthe help of hand-crafted rules.
We agree with thispoint of view: we devise transformation rules thatrelate Swiss German dialects to Standard German.In the case of closely related languages,2 different2In any case, it is difficult to establish strict linguistic criteria30types of annotation projection have been proposedto facilitate the creation of treebanks.
See Volk andSamuelsson (2004) for an overview of the problem.In a rather different approach, Vaillant (2008)presents a hand-crafted multi-dialect grammar thatconceives of a dialect as some kind of ?agreementfeature?.
This allows to share identical rules acrossdialects and differentiate them only where neces-sary.
We follow a similar approach by linking thetransformation rules to geographical data from re-cent dialectological fieldwork.Another line of research is oriented towards ma-chine translation models for closely related lan-guages.
It is common in this field that minor syn-tactic differences are dealt with explicitly.
Corb?
?-Bellot et al (2005) present a shallow-transfer sys-tem for the different Romance languages of Spain.Structural transfer rules account for gender changeand word reorderings.
Another system (Homola andKubon?, 2005) covers several Slavonic languages ofEastern Europe and confirms the necessity of shal-low parsing except for the most similar languagepair (Czech-Slovak).In contrast, statistical machine translation systemshave been proposed to translate closely related lan-guages on a letter-by-letter basis (Vilar et al, 2007;Tiedemann, 2009).
However, the word reorderingcapabilities of a common phrase-based model arestill required to obtain reasonable performances.3 The main syntactic features of SwissGerman dialectsA general description of the linguistic particularitiesof Swiss German dialects, including syntax, can befound, for example, in Lo?tscher (1983).
Some syn-tactic case studies within the framework of Genera-tive Grammar are presented in Penner (1995).
Cur-rently, a dialectological survey, under the name ofSADS (Syntaktischer Atlas der deutschen Schweiz),aims at producing a syntactic atlas of German-speaking Switzerland (Bucheli and Glaser, 2002).Some preliminary results of this project are de-scribed in Klausmann (2006).3to distinguish ?dialects?
from ?closely related languages?.3We thank Elvira Glaser and her team for providing us ac-cess to the SADS database.
This work could not have beencarried out without these precious data.There are two main types of syntactic differencesbetween Swiss German dialects and Standard Ger-man.
Some of the differences are representative ofthe mainly spoken use of Swiss German.
They donot show much interdialectal variation, and they arealso encountered in other spoken varieties of Ger-man.
Other differences are dialectological in nature,in the sense that they are specific to some subgroupsof Swiss German dialects and usually do not occuroutside of the Alemannic dialect group.
This secondtype of differences constitutes the main research ob-ject of the SADS project.
In the following subsec-tions, we will show some examples of both types ofphenomena.3.1 Features of spoken languageNo preterite tense Swiss German dialects do nothave synthetic preterite forms and use (analytic) per-fect forms instead (1a).4 Transforming a StandardGerman preterite form is not trivial: the correct aux-iliary verb and participle forms have to be generated,and they have to be inserted at the correct place (inthe right verb bracket).Standard German pluperfect is handled in thesame way: the inflected preterite auxiliary verb istransformed into an inflected present auxiliary verband an auxiliary participle, while the participle ofthe main verb is retained (1b).
The resulting con-struction is called double perfect.
(1) a. Wir gingen ins Kino.
?Wir sind ins Kino gegangen.
?We went to the cinema.?b.
als er gegangen war?
als er gegangen gewesen ist?when he had gone?No genitive case Standard German genitive caseis replaced by different means in Swiss German.Some prepositions (e.g.
wegen, wa?hrend ?because,during?)
use dative case instead of genitive.
Otherprepositions become complex through the addi-tion of a second preposition von (e.g.
innerhalb?within?).
Verbs requiring a genitive object in Stan-dard German generally use a dative object in Swiss4Throughout this paper, the examples are given with Stan-dard German words, but Swiss German word order.
We hopethat this simplifies the reading for Standard German speakers.31German unless they are lexically replaced.
Geni-tive appositions are converted to PPs with von ?of?in the case of non-human NPs (2a), or to a dative-possessive construction with human NPs (2b).
(2) a. der Schatzmeister der Partei?
der Schatzmeister von der Partei?the treasurer of the party?b.
das Haus des Lehrers?
dem Lehrer sein Haus?the teacher?s house?,litt.
?to the teacher his house?Determiners with person names A third differ-ence is the prevalent use of person names with deter-miners, whereas (written) Standard German avoidsdeterminers in this context:(3) a. Hans?
der Hans ?Hans?b.
Frau Mu?ller?
die Frau Mu?ller ?Miss M.?3.2 Dialect-specific featuresVerb raising When two or more verbal forms ap-pear in the right verb bracket, their order is oftenreversed with respect to Standard German.
Severalcases exist.
In Western Swiss dialects, the auxil-iary verb may precede the participle in subordinateclauses (4a).
In all but Southeastern dialects, themodal verb precedes the infinitive (4b).Verb raising also occurs for full verbs with infini-tival complements, like lassen ?to let?
(4c).
In thiscase, the dependencies between lassen and its com-plements cross those between the main verb and itscomplements:mich einen Apfel la?sst essenVerb projection raising In the same contexts asabove, the main verb extraposes to the right alongwith its complements (4d), (4e).
(4) a. dass er gegangen ist?
dass er ist gegangen?that he has gone?b.
dass du einen Apfel essen willst?
dass du einen Apfel willst essen?that you want to eat an apple?c.
dass du mich einen Apfel essen la?sst?
dass du mich einen Apfel la?sst essen?that you let me eat an apple?d.
dass du einen Apfel essen willst?
dass du willst einen Apfel essen?that you want to eat an apple?e.
dass du mich einen Apfel essen la?sst?
dass du mich la?sst einen Apfel essen?that you let me eat an apple?Prepositional dative marking In Central Swissdialects, dative objects are introduced by a dummypreposition i or a (5a).
However, this preposition isnot added if the dative noun phrase is already part ofa prepositional phrase (5b).
(5) a. der Mutter?
i/a der Mutter?the mother (dative)?b.
mit der Mutter?
mit (*i/a) der Mutter?with the mother?Article doubling In adjective phrases that containan intensity adverb like ganz, so ?very, such?, the de-terminer occurs either before the adverb as in Stan-dard German, or after the adverb, or in both posi-tions, depending on the dialect:(6) ein ganz lieber Mann?
ganz ein lieber Mann?
ein ganz ein lieber Mann?a very dear man?Complementizer in wh-phrases Interrogativesubordinate clauses introduced by verbs like fragen?to ask?
may see the complementizer dass attachedafter the interrogative adverb or pronoun.Relative pronouns Nominative and accusativerelative pronouns are substituted in most Swiss Ger-man dialects by the uninflected particle wo.
In da-tive (7a) or prepositional (7b) contexts, the particlewo appears together with an inflected personal pro-noun:(7) a. dem?
wo .
.
.
ihmb.
mit dem?
wo .
.
.
mit ihm, wo .
.
.
damitFinal clauses Standard German allows non-finitefinal clauses with the complementizer um .
.
.
zu ?inorder to?.
In Western dialects, this complementizer32is rendered as fu?r .
.
.
z.
In Eastern dialects, a singleparticle zum is used.
An intermediate form zum .
.
.
zalso exists.Pronoun sequences In a sequence of accusativeand dative pronouns, the accusative usually precedesin Standard German, whereas the dative precedes inmany Swiss German dialects:(8) es ihm?
ihm es ?it to him?Predicative adjectives In Southwestern dialects,predicative adjectives agree in gender and numberwith the subject:(9) er / sie / es ist alt?
er / sie / es ist alter / alte / altes?he / she / it is old?Copredicative adjectives A slightly differentproblem is the agreement of copredicative adjec-tives.
A copredicative adjective5 relates as an at-tribute to a noun phrase, but also to the predicateof the sentence (see example below).
In Northeast-ern dialects, there is an invariable er-ending6 for allgenders and numbers.
In Southern dialects, the co-predicative adjective agrees in gender and number.Elsewhere, the uninflected adjective form is used, asin Standard German.
(10) Sie sollten die Milch warm trinken.?
Sie sollten die Milch warme Fem.Sg /warmer Invar trinken.
?You should drink the milk warm.
?3.3 The SADS dataThe SADS survey consists of four written ques-tionnaires, each of which comprises about 30 ques-tions about syntactic phenomena like the ones citedabove.
They were submitted to 3185 informants in383 inquiry points.7 For each question, the infor-mants were asked to write down the variant(s) thatthey deemed acceptable in their dialect.5This phenomenon is also known as depictive secondarypredicate construction.6This (reconstructed) ending is thought to be a frozen mas-culine inflection marker; in practice, it is pronounced [@] or [a]in the corresponding dialects.7http://www.ds.uzh.ch/dialektsyntax/eckdaten.html, accessed 8.6.2011.Figure 1: The three maps show the geographical distribu-tion of prepositional dative marking with a (top) and withi (center).
The bottom map shows the inquiry points inwhich no preposition is added to dative NPs.
The mapsare based on SADS question I/7.
Larger circles representlarger proportions of informants considering the respec-tive variant as the most natural one.The SADS data give us an overview of the syn-tactic phenomena and their variants occurring in thedifferent Swiss German dialects.
It is on the basis ofthese data that we compiled the list of phenomenapresented above.
More importantly, the SADS dataprovide us with a mapping from variants to inquirypoints.
It suffices thus to implement a small num-ber of variants (between 1 and 5 for a typical phe-nomenon) to obtain full coverage of the 383 inquirypoints.
Figure 1 shows the geographical distributionof the three variants of prepositional dative marking.For a subset of syntactic phenomena, two types ofquestions were asked:33?
Which variants are acceptable in your dialect??
Which variant do you consider the most naturalone in your dialect?In the first case, multiple mentions were allowed.Usually, dialect speakers are very tolerant in accept-ing also variants that they would not naturally utterthemselves.
In this sense, the first set of questionscan be conceived as a geographical model of dialectperception, while the second set of questions ratheryields a geographical model of dialect production.According to the task at hand, the transformationrules can be used with either one of the data sets.4 Transformation rules4.1 The Standard German corpusThe transformation rules require morphosyntacti-cally annotated Standard German input data.
There-fore, we had to choose a specific annotation formatand a specific corpus to test the rules on.
We selectedthe Standard German TIGER treebank (Brants etal., 2002), in the CoNLL-style dependency format(Buchholz and Marsi, 2006; Ku?bler, 2008).8 Thisformat allows a compact representation of the syn-tactic structure.
Figure 2 shows a sample sentence,annotated in this format.While we use the TIGER corpus for test and eval-uation purposes in this paper, the rules are aimed tobe sufficiently generic so that they apply correctlyto any other corpus annotated according to the sameguidelines.4.2 Rule implementationWe have manually created transformation rules for adozen of syntactic and morphosyntactic phenomena.These rules (i) detect a specific syntactic pattern in asentence and (ii) modify the position, content and/ordependency link of the nodes in that pattern.
Therules are implemented in the form of Python scripts.As an example, let us describe the transformationrule for article doubling.
This rule detects the fol-lowing syntactic pattern:98Thanks to Yannick Versley for making this version avail-able to us.9X symbolizes any type of node that possesses an article andan adjective as dependents.
In practice, X usually is a noun.ART ADV{ganz, sehr, so.
.
.
}ADJA XThe rule then produces the three valid Swiss Ger-man patterns ?
as said above, the transformationrules may yield different output structures for dif-ferent dialects.
One of the three variants is identicalto the Standard German structure produced above.In a second variant, the positions of the article andthe adverb are exchanged without modifying the de-pendency links:ADV ART ADJA XThis transformation yields non-projective depen-dencies (i.e.
crossing arcs), which are problematicfor some parsing algorithms.
However, the originalTIGER annotations already contain non-projectivedependencies.
Thus, there is no additional complex-ity involved in the resulting Swiss German struc-tures.The third variant contains two occurrences of thedeterminer, before and after the intensity adverb.
Wechose to make both occurrences dependents of thesame head node:ART ADV ART ADJA XAs mentioned previously, the SADS data tell uswhich of the three variants is accepted in whichof the 384 inquiry points.
This mapping is non-deterministic: more than one variant may be ac-cepted at a given inquiry point.5 Evaluation5.1 Corpus frequenciesIn order to get an idea of the frequency of the syntac-tic constructions mentioned in Section 3, we startedby searching the TIGER treebank for the crucialsyntactic patterns.
Table 1 shows frequency counts34ID FORM LEMMA CPOSTAG POSTAG FEATS HEAD DEPREL1 fu?r fu?r APPR PREP ?
4 PP2 eine eine ART ART Acc.Sg.Fem 3 DET3 Statistik Statistik NN N Acc.Sg.Fem 1 PN4 reicht reichen VVFIN V 3.Sg.Pres.Ind 0 ROOT5 das das PDS PRO Nom.Sg.Neut 4 SUBJ6 nicht nicht PTKNEG PTKNEG ?
4 ADV7 .
.
$.
$.
?
0 ROOTFigure 2: Example of a CoNLL-style annotated sentence.
Each word (FORM) is numbered (ID), lemmatized(LEMMA), annotated with two levels of part-of-speech tags (CPOSTAG and POSTAG), annotated with morpho-logical information (FEATS) and with dependency relations.
HEAD indicates the ID of the head word, and DEPRELindicates the type of dependency relation.
For example, the word at position 1 (fu?r) depends on the word at position 4(reicht) by a PP relation.Construction SentencesPreterite tense 13439Genitive case 15351Person name determiners 5410Verb raising 3246Verb projection raising 2597Prep.
dative marking 2708Article doubling 61Compl.
in wh-phrases 478Relative pronouns 4619Final clauses 629Pronoun sequences 6Predicative adjectives 2784Total TIGER sentences 40000Table 1: Number of sentences in the TIGER corpus thattrigger the mentioned transformation rule.of the respective phenomena.10This preliminary study led us to exclude phe-nomena that could not be detected reliably becausethe morphosyntactic annotations in TIGER were notprecise enough.
For example, TIGER does not dis-tinguish between copredicative (11a) and adverbial(11b) uses of adjectives.
Therefore, it is impossibleto automatically count the number of copredicativeadjectives, let alne perform the necessary dialectaltransformations.10These figures should be taken with a grain of salt.
First, theTIGER corpus consists of newspaper text, which is hardly rep-resentative of everyday use of Swiss German dialects.
Second,it is difficult to obtain reliable recall figures without manuallyinspecting the entire corpus.
(11) a. Blitzblank ha?ngen die To?pfe an derKu?chenwand.
?The pots are hanging sparkling clean onthe kitchen wall.?b.
Ha?ufig ha?ngen die To?pfe an der Ku?chen-wand.
?The pots frequently hang on the kitchenwall.
?5.2 ResultsFor each syntactic construction, a development setand a test set were extracted from the TIGER tree-bank, each of them comprising at most 100 sen-tences showing that construction.
After achievingfair performance on the development sets, the held-out test data was manually evaluated.We did not evaluate the accusative-dative pro-noun sequences because of their small number ofoccurrences.
Predicative adjective agreement wasnot evaluated because the author did not have nativespeaker?s intuitions about this phenomenon.Table 2 shows the accuracy of the rules on the testdata.
Recall that some rules cover different dialec-tal variants, each of which may show different typesof errors.
In consequence, the performance of somerules is indicated as an interval.
Moreover, some di-alectal variants do not require any syntactic changeof the Standard German source, yielding figures of100% accuracy.The evaluation was performed on variants, not oninquiry points.
The mapping between the variantsand the inquiry points is supported by the SADS dataand is not the object of the present evaluation.35Construction AccuracyPreterite tense 89%Genitive case 85?93%Person name determiners 80%Verb raising 96?100%Verb projection raising 85?100%Prep.
dative marking 93?100%Article doubling 100%Compl.
in wh-phrases 69?100%Relative pronouns 86?99%Final clauses 92?100%Table 2: This table shows the accuracy of the transforma-tions, manually evaluated on the test set.The overall performance of the transformationrules lies at 85% accuracy and above for most rules.Four major error types can be distinguished.Annotation errors The annotation of the TIGERtreebank has been done semi-automatically and isnot exempt of errors, especially in the case of out-of-vocabulary words.
These problems degrade theperformance of rules dealing with proper nouns.
In(12), the first name Traute is wrongly analyzed as apreterite verb form traute ?trusted, wedded?, leadingto an erroneous placement of the determiner.
(12) Traute Mu?ller?
*traute die Mu?ller / die Traute Mu?llerImperfect heuristics Some rules rely on a syntac-tic distinction that is not explicitly encoded in theTIGER annotation.
Therefore, we had to resort toheuristics, which do not work well in all cases.
Forexample, the genitive replacement rule needs to dis-tinguish human from non-human NPs.
Likewise,adding a complementizer to wh-phrases overgener-ates because the TIGER annotation does not reliablydistinguish between clause-adjoined relative clausesand interrogative clauses introduced as complementof the main verb.Conjunctions Many rules rely on the dependencyrelation type (the DEPREL field in Figure 2).
Ac-cording to the CoNLL guidelines, the dependencytype is only encoded in the first conjunct of a con-junction, but not in the second.
As a result, the trans-formations are often only applied to the first con-junct.
However, it should not be too difficult to han-dle the most frequent types of conjunctions.Word order errors Appositions and quotationmarks sometimes interfere with transformation rulesand lead to typographically or syntactically unfor-tunate sentences.
In other cases, the linguistic de-scription is not very explicit.
For example, in theverb projection raising rule, we found it difficult todecide which constituents are moved and which arenot.
Moving polarity items is sometimes blockeddue to scope effects.
Different types of adverbs alsotend to behave differently.5.3 An exampleIn the previous section, we evaluated each syntac-tic transformation rule individually.
It is also pos-sible to apply all rules in cascade.
The followingexample shows an original Standard German sen-tence (13a) along with three dialectal variants, ob-tained by the cascaded application of our transfor-mation rules.
The Mo?rschwil dialect (Northeast-ern Switzerland, Canton St. Gallen) shows geni-tive replacement and relative pronoun replacement(13b).
The Central Swiss dialect of Sempach (Can-ton Lucerne) additionally shows prepositional dativemarking (13c), while the Guttannen dialect (South-western Switzerland, Canton Berne) shows an in-stance of verb raising (13d).
All transformations areunderlined.
Note again that the transformation rulesonly produce Swiss German morphosyntactic struc-tures, but do not include word-level adaptations.
Forillustration, the last example (13e) includes word-level translations and corresponds thus to the ?real?dialect spoken in Mo?rschwil.
(13) a.
Original: Einen besonderen Stellen-wert verdient dabei die alarmierende Zahljunger Menschen, die der PDS ihreStimme gegeben haben.
?Special importance should be paid to thealarming number of young people whohave given their vote to the PDS.?b.
Mo?rschwil: Einen besonderen Stellen-wert verdient dabei die alarmierende Zahlvon jungen Menschen, wo der PDS ihreStimme gegeben haben.c.
Sempach: Einen besonderen Stellen-36wert verdient dabei die alarmierende Zahlvon jungen Menschen, wo i der PDS ihreStimme gegeben haben.d.
Guttannen: Einen besonderen Stellen-wert verdient dabei die alarmierende Zahlvon jungen Menschen, wo der PDS ihreStimme haben gegeben.e.
Mo?rschwil (?real?
): En bsondere Stelle-wert vedient debii di alarmierend Zahl vojunge Mensche, wo de PDS iri Stimm ggeehend.6 Conclusion and future workWe have shown that a small number of manuallywritten transformation rules can model the most im-portant syntactic differences between Standard Ger-man and Swiss German dialects with high levels ofaccuracy.
Data of recent dialectological fieldworkprovides us with a list of relevant phenomena andtheir respective geographic distribution patterns, sothat we are able to devise the unique combinationof transformation rules for more than 300 inquirypoints.A large part of current work in natural languageprocessing deals with inferring linguistic structuresfrom raw textual data.
In our setting, this workhas already been done by the dialectologists: by de-vising questionnaires of the most important syntac-tic phenomena, collecting data from native dialectspeakers and synthesizing the results of the surveyin the form of a database.
Relying on this work al-lows us to obtain precise results for a great variety ofdialects, where machine learning techniques wouldlikely run into data sparseness issues.The major limitation we found with our ap-proach is the lacking precision (for our purposes) ofthe Standard German treebank annotation.
Indeed,some of the syntactic distinctions that are made inSwiss German dialects are not relevant from a purelyStandard German point of view, and have thereforenot been distinguished in the annotation.
Additionalannotation could be added with the help of semanticheuristics.
For example, in the case of copredicativeadjectives (11), a semantic resource could easily tellthat pots can be sparkling clean but not frequent.The purpose of our work is twofold.
First, therule set can be viewed as part of a transfer-basedmachine translation system from Standard Germanto Swiss German dialects.
In this case, one coulduse a parser to analyze any Standard German sen-tence before applying the transformation rules.
Sec-ond, the rules allow to transform the manually anno-tated sentences of a Standard German treebank in or-der to automatically derive Swiss German treebanks.Such treebanks ?
even if they are of lower qualitythan manually annotated ones ?
could then be usedto train statistical models for Swiss German part-of-speech tagging or full parsing.
Moreover, they couldbe used to train statistical machine translation mod-els to translate out of the dialects into Standard Ger-man.11Both lines of research will be tested in futurework.
In addition, the rules presented here only dealwith syntactic transformations.
Word-level transfor-mations (phonetic, lexical and morphological adap-tations) will have to be dealt with by other means.Furthermore, we would like to test if syntacticpatterns can be used successfully for dialect identi-fication, as this has been done with lexical and pho-netic cues in previous work (Scherrer and Rambow,2010b).Another aspect of future research concerns thetype of treebank used.
The TIGER corpus consistsof newspaper texts, which is hardly a genre fre-quently used in Swiss German.
Spoken languagetexts would be more realistic to translate.
The Tu?Ba-D/S treebank (Hinrichs et al, 2000) provides syntac-tically annotated speech data, but its lack of morpho-logical annotation and its diverging annotation stan-dard have prevented its use in our research for thetime being.ReferencesSabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Silvia Hansen, WolfgangLezius, and George Smith.
2002.
The TIGER Tree-bank.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Treebanksand Linguistic Theories, Sozopol.Claudia Bucheli and Elvira Glaser.
2002.
The syn-tactic atlas of Swiss German dialects: empirical and11While nearly all speakers of Swiss German also understandStandard German, the inverse is not the case.
Hence, a ma-chine translation system would be most useful for the dialect-to-standard direction.
The lack of parallel training data and syntac-tic resources for the dialect side prevented the creation of sucha system until now.37methodological problems.
In Sjef Barbiers, LeonieCornips, and Susanne van der Kleij, editors, Syntac-tic Microvariation, volume II.
Meertens Institute Elec-tronic Publications in Linguistics, Amsterdam.Sabine Buchholz and Erwin Marsi.
2006.
CoNLL-Xshared task on multilingual dependency parsing.
InProceedings of the 10th Conference on ComputationalNatural Language Learning (CoNLL-X), pages 149?164, New York City.David Chiang, Mona Diab, Nizar Habash, Owen Ram-bow, and Safiullah Shareef.
2006.
Parsing Arabic di-alects.
In EACL?06: Proceedings of the Eleventh Con-ference of the European Chapter of the Association forCompuational Linguistics, pages 369?376, Trento.Antonio M.
Corb?
?-Bellot, Mikel L. Forcada, Sergio Ortiz-Rojas, Juan Antonio Pe?rez-Ortiz, Gema Ram?
?rez-Sa?nchez, Felipe Sa?nchez-Mart?
?nez, In?aki Alegria,Aingeru Mayor, and Kepa Sarasola.
2005.
An open-source shallow-transfer machine translation engine forthe Romance languages of Spain.
In Proceedings ofEAMT?05, pages 79?86, Budapest.Erhard W. Hinrichs, Julia Bartels, Yasuhiro Kawata, ValiaKordoni, and Heike Telljohann.
2000.
The Tu?bingentreebanks for spoken German, English, and Japanese.In Wolfgang Wahlster, editor, Verbmobil: Foundationsof Speech-to-Speech Translation.
Springer, Berlin.Petr Homola and Vladislav Kubon?.
2005.
A machinetranslation system into a minority language.
In Pro-ceedings of RANLP?05, Borovets.Hubert Klausmann, editor.
2006.
Raumstrukturen imAlemannischen.
Neugebauer, Graz/Feldkirch.Sandra Ku?bler.
2008.
The PaGe 2008 shared task onparsing German.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onParsing German, pages 55?63, Columbus, Ohio.Andreas Lo?tscher.
1983.
Schweizerdeutsch.
Geschichte,Dialekte, Gebrauch.
Huber, Frauenfeld.Zvi Penner, editor.
1995.
Topics in Swiss German Syn-tax.
Peter Lang, Bern.Yves Scherrer and Owen Rambow.
2010a.
Natural lan-guage processing for the Swiss German dialect area.In Proceedings of KONVENS?10, Saarbru?cken.Yves Scherrer and Owen Rambow.
2010b.
Word-baseddialect identification with georeferenced rules.
In Pro-ceedings of EMNLP 2010, Cambridge, MA.Jo?rg Tiedemann.
2009.
Character-based PSMTfor closely related languages.
In Proceedings ofEAMT?09, pages 12 ?
19, Barcelona.Pascal Vaillant.
2008.
A layered grammar model: Usingtree-adjoining grammars to build a common syntactickernel for related dialects.
In TAG+9 2008 ?
The NinthInternational Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammarsand Related Formalisms, pages 157?164, Tu?bingen.David Vilar, Jan-Thorsten Peter, and Hermann Ney.2007.
Can we translate letters?
In Proceedings of theSecond Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation,pages 33?39, Prague.Martin Volk and Yvonne Samuelsson.
2004.
Bootstrap-ping parallel treebanks.
In COLING 2004 5th Inter-national Workshop on Linguistically Interpreted Cor-pora, pages 63?70, Geneva.38
