Proceedings of the 5th ACL-HLT Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 87?95,Portland, OR, USA, 24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Verb Extraction from Historical Swedish TextsEva PetterssonDepartment of Linguistics and PhilologyUppsala UniversitySwedish National Graduate Schoolof Language Technologyeva.pettersson@lingfil.uu.seJoakim NivreDepartment of Linguistics and PhilologyUppsala Universityjoakim.nivre@lingfil.uu.seAbstractEven though historical texts reveal a lot ofinteresting information on culture and socialstructure in the past, information access is lim-ited and in most cases the only way to find theinformation you are looking for is to manuallygo through large volumes of text, searchingfor interesting text segments.
In this paper wewill explore the idea of facilitating this time-consuming manual effort, using existing natu-ral language processing techniques.
Attentionis focused on automatically identifying verbsin early modern Swedish texts (1550?1800).The results indicate that it is possible to iden-tify linguistic categories such as verbs in textsfrom this period with a high level of precisionand recall, using morphological tools devel-oped for present-day Swedish, if the text isnormalised into a more modern spelling be-fore the morphological tools are applied.1 IntroductionHistorical texts constitute a rich source of data forresearchers interested in for example culture and so-cial structure over time.
It is however a very time-consuming task to manually search for relevant pas-sages in the texts available.
It is likely that languagetechnology could substantially reduce the manualeffort involved and thus the time needed to accessthis information, by automatically suggesting sec-tions that may be of interest to the task at hand.
Theinteresting text segments could be identified usingfor example semantic features or morphological andsyntactic cues in the text.This would however require natural language pro-cessing tools capable of handling historical texts,which are in many respects different from contem-porary written language, concerning both spellingand syntax.
Ideally, one would of course like to havetools developed specifically for the time period of in-terest, and emerging efforts to develop resources andtools for historical languages are therefore welcome.Despite these efforts, however, it is unlikely that wewill have anything close to complete coverage of dif-ferent time periods even for a single language withinthe foreseeable future.In this paper, we will therefore instead exam-ine the possibility of improving information accessin historical texts by adapting language technologytools developed for contemporary written language.The work has been carried out in close cooperationwith historians who are interested in what men andwomen did for a living in the early modern Swedishsociety (1550?1800).
We will hence focus on identi-fying linguistic categories in Swedish texts from thisperiod.
The encouraging results show that you maysuccessfully analyse historical texts using NLP toolsdeveloped for contemporary language, if analysis ispreceded by an orthographic normalisation step.Section 2 presents related work and character-istics of historical Swedish texts.
The extractionmethod is defined in section 3.
In section 4 the ex-periments are described, while the results are pre-sented in section 5.
Section 6 describes how the verbextraction tool is used in ongoing historical research.Finally, conclusions are drawn in section 7.872 Background2.1 Related WorkThere are still not many studies performed on natu-ral language processing of historical texts.
Pennac-chiotti and Zanzotto (2008) used contemporary dic-tionaries and analysis tools to analyse Italian textsfrom the period 1200?1881.
The results showed thatthe dictionary only covered approximately 27% ofthe words in the oldest text, as compared to 62.5%of the words in a contemporary Italian newspapertext.
The morphological analyser used in the studyreached an accuracy of 0.48 (as compared to 0.91for modern text), while the part-of-speech taggeryielded an accuracy of 0.54 (as compared to 0.97for modern text).Rocio et al (1999) used a grammar of contempo-rary Portuguese to syntactically annotate medievalPortuguese texts.
To adapt the parser to the me-dieval language, a lexical analyser was added includ-ing a dictionary and inflectional rules for medievalPortuguese.
This combination proved to be success-ful for partial parsing of medieval Portuguese texts,even though there were some problems with gram-mar limitations, dictionary incompleteness and in-sufficient part-of-speech tagging.Oravecz et al (2010) tried a semi-automatic ap-proach to create an annotated corpus of texts fromthe Old Hungarian period.
The annotation was per-formed in three steps: 1) sentence segmentationand tokenisation, 2) standardisation/normalisation,and 3) morphological analysis and disambiguation.They concluded that normalisation is of vital impor-tance to the performance of the morphological anal-yser.For the Swedish language, Borin et al (2007)proposed a named-entity recognition system adaptedto Swedish literature from the 19th century.
The sys-tem recognises Person Names, Locations, Organisa-tions, Artifacts (food/wine products, vehicles etc),Work&Art (names of novels, sculptures etc), Events(religious, cultural etc), Measure/Numerical expres-sions and Temporal expressions.
The named en-tity recognition system was evaluated on texts fromthe Swedish Literature Bank without any adaptation,showing problems with spelling variation, inflec-tional differences, unknown names and structural is-sues (such as hyphens splitting a single name intoseveral entities).1 Normalising the texts before ap-plying the named entity recognition systemmade thef-score figures increase from 78.1% to 89.5%.All the results presented in this section indicatethat existing natural language processing tools arenot applicable to historical texts without adaptationof the tools, or the source text.2.2 Characteristics of Historical Swedish TextsTexts from the early modern Swedish period (1550?1800) differ from present-day Swedish texts bothconcerning orthography and syntax.
Inflectional dif-ferences include a richer verb paradigm in historicaltexts as compared to contemporary Swedish.
TheSwedish language was also strongly influenced byother languages.
Evidence of this is the placementof the finite verb at the end of relative clauses in aGerman-like fashion not usually found in Swedishtexts, as in ...om man i ha?chtelse sitter as comparedto om man sitter i ha?kte (?...if you in custody are?vs ?...if you are in custody?
).Examples of the various orthographic differencesare the duplication of long vowels in words such assaak (sak ?thing?)
and stoor (stor ?big/large?
), theuse of of fv instead of v, as in o?fver (o?ver ?over?
),and gh and dh instead of the present-day g and d, asin na?ghon (na?gon ?somebody?)
and fadhren (fadern?the father?)
(Bergman, 1995).Furthermore, the lack of spelling conventionscauses the spelling to vary highly between differentwriters and text genres, and even within the sametext.
There is also great language variation in textsfrom different parts of the period.3 Verb ExtractionIn the following we will focus on identifying verbsin historical Swedish texts from the period 1550?1800.
The study has been carried out in cooper-ation with historians who are interested in findingout what men and women did for a living in theearly modern Swedish society.
One way to do thiswould be to search for occupational titles occurringin the text.
This is however not sufficient since manypeople, especially women, had no occupational ti-tle.
Occupational titles are also vague, and may in-clude several subcategories of work.
In the material1http://litteraturbanken.se/88already (manually) analysed by the historians, oc-cupation is often described as a verb with a directobject.
Hence, automatically extracting and display-ing the verbs in a text could help the historians inthe process of finding relevant text segments.
Theverb extraction process developed for this purposeis performed in maximally five steps, as illustratedin figure 1.The first step is tokenisation.
Each token isthen optionally matched against dictionaries cover-ing historical Swedish.
Words not found in the his-torical dictionaries are normalised to a more mod-ern spelling before being processed by the morpho-logical analyser.
Finally, the tagger disambiguateswords with several interpretations, yielding a list ofall the verb candidates in the text.
In the experi-ments, we will examine what steps are essential, andhow they are combined to yield the best results.3.1 TokenisationTokenisation is performed using an in-house stan-dard tokeniser.
The result of the tokenisation is atext segmented into one token per line, with a blankline marking the start of a new sentence.3.2 Historical DictionariesAfter tokenisation, the tokens are optionallymatched against two historical dictionaries dis-tributed by The Swedish Language Bank:2?
The Medieval Lexical DatabaseA dictionary describing Medieval Swedish,containing approximately 54 000 entries fromthe following three books:?
K.F.
So?derwalls Ordbok O?fver svenskamedeltids-spra?ket, vol I-III (So?derwall,1918)?
K.F.
So?derwalls Ordbok O?fver svenskamedeltids-spra?ket, vol IV-V (So?derwall,1973)?
C.J.
Schlyters Ordbok till Samlingen afSweriges Gamla Lagar (Schlyter, 1877)?
Dalin?s DictionaryA dictionary covering 19th Century Swedish,created from the printed version of Ordbok2http://spraakbanken.gu.se/O?fver svenska spra?ket, vol I?II by Dalin(1855).
The dictionary contains approximately64 000 entries.The dictionaries cover medieval Swedish and 19thcentury Swedish respectively.
We are actually in-terested in the time period in between these two pe-riods, but it is assumed that these dictionaries areclose enough to cover words found in the early mod-ern period as well.
It should further be noticed thatthe electronically available versions of the dictionar-ies are still in an early stage of development.
Thismeans that coverage varies between different wordclasses, and verbs are not covered to the same ex-tent as for example nouns.
Words with an irregu-lar inflection (which is often the case for frequentlyoccurring verbs) also pose a problem in the currentdictionaries.3.3 Normalisation RulesSince both the morphological analyser and the tag-ger used in the experiments are developed for han-dling modern Swedish written language, running atext with the old Swedish spelling preserved pre-sumably means that these tools will fail to assigncorrect analyses in many cases.
Therefore, the text isoptionally transformed into a more modern spelling,before running the document through the analysistools.The normalisation procedure differs slightly formorphological analysis as compared to tagging.There are mainly two reasons why the same setof normalisation rules may not be optimally usedboth for the morphological analyser and for the tag-ger.
First, since the tagger (unlike the morphologicalanalyser) is context sensitive, the normalisation rulesdeveloped for the tagger need to be designed to alsonormalise words surrounding verbs, such as nouns,determiners, etc.
For the morphological analyser,the main focus in formulating the rules has been onhandling verb forms.
Secondly, to avoid being lim-ited to a small set of rules, an incremental normalisa-tion procedure has been used for the morphologicalanalyser in order to maximise recall without sacri-ficing precision.
In this incremental process, nor-malisation rules are applied one by one, and the lessconfident rules are only applied to words not iden-tified by the morphological analyser in the previous89Figure 1: Overview of the verb extraction experimentnormalisation step.
The tagger on the other hand isrobust, always yielding a tag for each token, even incases where the word form is not present in the dic-tionary.
Thus, the idea of running the normalisationrules in an incremental manner is not an option forthe tagger.The total set of normalisation rules used for themorphological analyser is 39 rules, while 29 ruleswere defined for the tagger.
The rules are inspiredby (but not limited to) some of the changes inthe reformed Swedish spelling introduced in 1906(Bergman, 1995).
As a complement to the rulesbased on the spelling reform, a number of empiri-cally designed rules were formulated, based on thedevelopment corpus described in section 4.1.
Theempirical rules include the rewriting of verbal end-ings (e.g.
bega?rade ?
bega?rde ?requested?
andutviste ?
utvisade ?deported?
), transforming dou-ble consonants into a single consonant (vetta ?
veta?know?, pro?vass ?
pro?vas ?be tried?)
and vice versa(upsteg ?
uppsteg ?rose/ascended?, viste ?
visste?knew?
).3.4 Morphological Analysis and TaggingSALDO is an electronically available lexical re-source developed for present-day written Swedish.It is based on Svenskt AssociationsLexikon (SAL), asemantic dictionary compiled by Lo?nngren (1992).The first version of the SALDO dictionary was re-leased in 2008 and comprises 72 396 lexemes.
In-flectional information conforms to the definitionsin Nationalencyklopedins ordbok (1995), SvenskaAkademiens ordlista o?ver svenska spra?ket (2006)and Svenska Akademiens grammatik (1999).
Apartfrom single word entries, the SALDO dictionaryalso contains approximately 2 000 multi-word units,including 1 100 verbs, mainly particle verbs (Borinet al, 2008).
In the experiments we will use SALDOversion 2.0, released in 2010 with a number of wordsadded, resulting in a dictionary comprising approxi-mately 100 000 entries.When running the SALDO morphological anal-yser alone, a token is always considered to be a verbif there is a verb interpretation present in the dictio-nary, regardless of context.
For example, the wordfo?r will always be analysed both as a verb (bring)and as a preposition (for), even though in most casesthe prepositional interpretation is the correct one.When running the maximum five steps in the verbextraction procedure, the tagger will disambiguatein cases where the morphological analyser has pro-duced both a verb interpretation and a non-verb in-terpretation.
The tagger used in this study is Hun-POS (Hala?csy et al, 2007), a free and open sourcereimplementation of the HMM-based TnT-taggerby Brants (2000).
Megyesi (2008) showed thatthe HunPOS tagger trained on the Stockholm-Umea?Corpus (Gustafson-Capkova?
and Hartmann, 2006)is one of the best performing taggers for Swedishtexts.4 ExperimentsThis section describes the experimental setup in-cluding data preparation and experiments.904.1 Data PreparationA subset of Per Larssons dombok, a selection ofcourt records from 1638, was used as a basis for de-veloping the automatic verb extraction tool.
Thistext consists of 11 439 tokens in total, and wasprinted by Edling (1937).
The initial 984 to-kens of the text were used as development data,i.e.
words used when formulating the normalisationrules, whereas the rest of the text was used solely forevaluation.A gold standard for evaluation was created, bymanually annotating all the verbs in the text.
Forthe verb annotation to be as accurate as possible, thesame text was annotated by two persons indepen-dently, and the results analysed and compared untilconsensus was reached.
The resulting gold standardincludes 2 093 verbs in total.4.2 Experiment 1: Normalisation RulesIn the first experiment we will compare morpholog-ical analysis results before and after applying nor-malisation rules.
To investigate what results couldoptimally be expected from the morphological anal-ysis, SALDO was also run on present-day Swedishtext, i.e.
the Stockholm-Umea?
Corpus (SUC).
SUCis a balanced corpus consisting of a number of dif-ferent text types representative of the Swedish lan-guage in the 1990s.
The corpus consists of approx-imately one million tokens, distributed among 500texts with approximately 2 000 tokens in each text.Each word in the corpus is manually annotated withpart of speech, lemma and a number of morpho-logical features (Gustafson-Capkova?
and Hartmann,2006).4.3 Experiment 2: Morphological Analysis andTaggingIn the second experiment we will focus on thecombination of morphological analysis and tagging,based on the following settings:morph A token is always considered to be a verbif the morphological analysis contains a verbinterpretation.tag A token is always considered to be a verb if ithas been analysed as a verb by the tagger.morph or tag A token is considered to be a verb ifthere is a morphological verb analysis or if ithas been analysed as a verb by the tagger.morph and tag A token is considered to be a verbif there is a morphological verb analysis and ithas been tagged as a verb.To further refine the combination of morphologi-cal analysis and tagging, a more fine-grained dis-ambiguation method was introduced, where the tag-ger is only used in contexts where the morphologicalanalyser has failed to provide an unambiguous inter-pretation:morph + tag A token is considered to be a verb ifit has been unambiguously analysed as a verbby SALDO.
Likewise a token is considered notto be a verb, if it has been given one or moreanalyses from SALDO, where none of the anal-yses is a verb interpretation.
If the token hasbeen given both a verb analysis and a non-verbanalysis by SALDO, the tagger gets to decide.The tagger also decides for words not found inSALDO.4.4 Experiment 3: Historical DictionariesIn the third experiment, the historical dictionariesare added, using the following combinations:medieval A token is considered to be a verb if it hasbeen unambiguously analysed as a verb by themedieval dictionary.
Likewise a token is con-sidered not to be a verb, if it has been givenone or more analyses from the medieval dic-tionary, where none of the analyses is a verbinterpretation.
If the token has been given botha verb analysis and a non-verb analysis by themedieval dictionary, or if the token is not foundin the dictionary, the token is processed by themorphological analyser and the tagger as de-scribed in setting morph + tag.19c A token is considered to be a verb if it has beenunambiguously analysed as a verb by the 19thcentury dictionary.
Likewise a token is consid-ered not to be a verb, if it has been given oneor more analyses from the 19th century dictio-nary, where none of the analyses is a verb in-terpretation.
If the token has been given both91a verb analysis and a non-verb analysis by the19th century dictionary, or if the token is notfound in the dictionary, the token is processedby the morphological analyser and the tagger asdescribed in setting morph + tag.medieval + 19c A token is considered to be a verbif it has been unambiguously analysed as a verbby the medieval dictionary.
Likewise a token isconsidered not to be a verb, if it has been givenone or more analyses from the medieval dic-tionary, where none of the analyses is a verbinterpretation.
If the token has been given botha verb analysis and a non-verb analysis by themedieval dictionary, or if the token is not foundin the dictionary, the token is matched againstthe 19th century dictionary before being pro-cessed by the morphological analyser and thetagger as described in setting morph + tag.19c + medieval A token is considered to be a verbif it has been unambiguously analysed as a verbby the 19th century dictionary.
Likewise a to-ken is considered not to be a verb, if it hasbeen given one or more analyses from the 19thcentury dictionary, where none of the analysesis a verb interpretation.
If the token has beengiven both a verb analysis and a non-verb anal-ysis by the 19th century dictionary, or if the to-ken is not found in the dictionary, the token ismatched against the medieval dictionary beforebeing processed by the morphological analyserand the tagger as described in setting morph +tag.5 Results5.1 Normalisation RulesRunning the SALDO morphological analyser on thetest text with the old Swedish spelling preserved,meant that only 30% of the words were analysedat all.
Applying the normalisation rules before themorphological analysis is performed, drastically in-creases recall.
After only 5 rules have been ap-plied, recall is increased by 11 percentage units, andadding another 5 rules increases recall by another26 percentage units.
All in all, recall increases from30% for unnormalised text to 83% after all normal-isation rules have been applied, whereas precisionincreases from 54% to 66%, as illustrated in table 1.Recall is still significantly higher for contempo-rary Swedish texts than for the historical text (99%as compared to 83% with the best normalisationsettings).
Nevertheless, the rapid increase in re-call when applying the normalisation rules is verypromising, and it is yet to be explored how good re-sults it is possible to reach if including more normal-isation rules.Precision Recall f-scoreraw data 0.54 0.30 0.395 rules 0.61 0.41 0.4910 rules 0.66 0.67 0.6615 rules 0.66 0.68 0.6720 rules 0.67 0.73 0.7025 rules 0.66 0.78 0.7230 rules 0.66 0.79 0.7235 rules 0.66 0.82 0.7339 rules 0.66 0.83 0.74SUC corpus 0.53 0.99 0.69Table 1: Morphological analysis results using SALDOversion 2.0, before and after incremental application ofnormalisation rules, and compared to the Stockholm-Umea?
corpus of contemporary Swedish written language.5.2 Morphological Analysis and TaggingTable 2 presents the results of combining theSALDO morphological analyser and the HunPOStagger, using the settings described in section 4.3.Precision Recall f-scoremorph 0.66 0.83 0.74tag 0.81 0.86 0.83morph or tag 0.61 0.92 0.74morph and tag 0.92 0.80 0.85morph + tag 0.82 0.88 0.85Table 2: Results for normalised text, combining mor-phological analysis and tagging.
morph = morphologicalanalysis using SALDO.
tag = tagging using HunPOS.As could be expected, the tagger yields higherprecision than the morphological anlayser, due tothe fact that the morphological analyser renders allanalyses for a word form given in the dictionary, re-gardless of context.
The results of combining the92morphological analyser and the tagger are also quiteexpected.
In the case where a token is consideredto be a verb if there is a morphological verb analy-sis or it has been analysed as a verb by the tagger,a very high level of recall (92%) is achieved at theexpense of low precision, whereas the opposite istrue for the case where a token is considered to bea verb if there is a morphological verb analysis andit has been tagged as a verb.
Using the tagger fordisambiguation only in ambiguous cases yields thebest results.
It should be noted that using the morph-and-tag setting results in the same f-score as the dis-ambiguation setting.
However, the disambiguationsetting performs better in terms of recall, which is ofimportance to the historians in the project at hand.Another advantage of using the disambiguation set-ting is that the difference between precision and re-call is less.5.3 Historical DictionariesThe results of using the historical dictionaries arepresented in table 3.Precision Recall f-scoremorph + tag 0.82 0.88 0.85medieval 0.82 0.81 0.8119c 0.82 0.86 0.84medieval + 19c 0.81 0.79 0.8019c + medieval 0.81 0.79 0.80Table 3: Results for normalised text, combining histor-ical dictionaries and contemporary analysis tools.
me-dieval = Medieval Lexical Database.
19c = Dalin?s Dic-tionary.
morph = morphological analysis using SALDO.tag = tagging using HunPOS.Adding the historical dictionaries did not improvethe verb analysis results; actually the opposite istrue.
Studying the results of the analyses from themedieval dictionary, one may notice that only twoverb analyses have been found when applied to thetest text, and both of them are erroneous in this con-text (in both cases the word lass ?load?
as in thephrase 6 lass ho?o?
?6 loads of hay?).
Furthermore,the medieval dictionary produces quite a lot of non-verb analyses for commonly occurring verbs, for ex-ample skola (noun: ?shool?, verb: ?should/shall?
),kunna (?can/could?
), kom (?come?
), finna (?find?
)and vara (noun: ?goods?, verb: ?be?).
Another rea-son for the less encouraging results seems to be thatmost of the words actually found and analysed cor-rectly are words that are correctly analysed by thecontemporary tools as well, such as i (?in?
), man(?man/you?
), sin (?his/her/its?
), honom (?him?)
andin (?into?
).As for the 19th century dictionary, the same prob-lems apply.
For example, a number of frequentverb forms are analysed as non-verbs (e.g.
skall?should/shall?
and ligger ?lies?).
There are alsonon-verbs repeatedly analysed as verbs, such asstadgar (?regulations?)
and egne (?own?).
As wasthe case for the medieval dictionary, most of thewords analysed correctly by the 19th century dic-tionary are commonly occuring words that wouldhave been correctly analysed by the morphologicalanalyser and/or the tagger as well, for example och(?and?
), men (?but?)
and na?r (?when?
).6 Support for Historical ResearchIn the ongoing Gender and Work project at the De-partment of History, Uppsala University, historiansare interested in what men and women did for a liv-ing in the early modern Swedish Society.3 Informa-tion on this is registered and made available for re-search in a database, most often in the form of a verband its object(s).
The automatic verb extraction toolwas developed in close cooperation with the Genderand Work participants, with the aim of reducing themanual effort involved in finding the relevant infor-mation to enter into the database.The verb extraction tool was integrated in a pro-totypical graphical user interface, enabling the his-torians to run the system on historical texts of theirchoice.
The interface provides facilities for upload-ing files, generating a list of all the verbs in the file,displaying verb concordances for interesting verbs,and displaying the verb in a larger context.
Figure2 illustrates the graphical user interface, displayingconcordances for the verb anklaga (?accuse?).
Thehistorians found the interface useful and are inter-ested in integrating the tool in the Gender and Workdatabase.
Further development of the verb extrac-tion tool is now partly funded by the Gender andWork project.3http://gaw.hist.uu.se/93Figure 2: Concordances displayed for the verb anklaga (?accuse?)
in the graphical user interface.7 ConclusionToday historians and other researchers working onolder texts have to manually go through large vol-umes of text when searching for information onfor example culture or social structure in histori-cal times.
In this paper we have shown that thistime-consuming manual effort could be significantlyreduced using contemporary natural language pro-cessing tools to display only those text segmentsthat may be of interest to the researcher.
We havedescribed the development of a tool that automati-cally identifies verbs in historical Swedish texts us-ing morphological analysis and tagging, and a proto-typical graphical user interface, integrating this tool.The results indicate that it is possible to retrieveverbs in Swedish texts from the 17th century with82% precision and 88% recall, using morphologicaltools for contemporary Swedish, if the text is nor-malised into a more modern spelling before the mor-phological tools are applied (recall may be increasedto 92% if a lower precision is accepted).Adding electronically available dictionaries cov-ering medieval Swedish and 19th century Swedishrespectively to the verb extraction tool, did not im-prove the results as compared to using only contem-porary NLP tools.
This seems to be partly due tothe dictionaries still being in an early stage of devel-opment, where lexical coverage is unevenly spreadamong different word classes, and frequent, irregu-larly inflected word forms are not covered.
It wouldtherefore be interesting to study the results of thehistorical dictionary lookup, when the dictionariesare more mature.Since the present extraction tool has been evalu-ated on one single text, it would also be interestingto explore how these extraction methods should beadapted to handle language variation in texts fromdifferent genres and time periods.
Due to the lackof spelling conventions, it would also be interest-ing to see how the extraction process performs ontexts from the same period and genre, but written bydifferent authors.
Future work also includes experi-ments on identifying linguistic categories other thanverbs.94ReferencesGo?sta Bergman.
1995.
Kortfattad svensk spra?khistoria.Prisma Magnum, 5th ed., Stockholm.Lars Borin, Markus Forsberg, and Lennart Lo?nngren.2008.
SALDO 1.0 (Svenskt associationslexikon ver-sion 2).
Spra?kbanken, University of Gothenburg.Lars Borin, Dimitrios Kokkinakis, and Leif-Jo?ran Ols-son.
2007.
Naming the Past: Named Entity andAnomacy Recognition in 19th Century Swedish Lit-erature).
In: Proceedings of the Workshop on Lan-guage Technology for Cultural Heritage Data (LaT-eCH 2007), pages 1?8.
Prague, Czech Republic.Bra Bo?cker.
1995.
Nationalencyklopedins ordbok.
BraBo?cker, Ho?gana?s.Thorsten Brants.
2000.
TnT - A Statistical Part-of-Speech Tagger.
In: Proceedings of the 6th AppliedNatural Language Processing Conference (ANLP-00),Seattle, Washington, USA.Anders Fredrik Dalin.
1850?1855.
Ordbok O?fver sven-ska spra?ket.
Vol I?II.
Stockholm.Nils Edling.
1937.
Uppla?ndska dombo?cker.
ja?mte in-ledning, fo?rklaringar och register utgivna genom NilsEdling.
Uppsala.Sofia Gustafson-Capkova?
and Britt Hartmann.
December2006.
Manual of the Stockholm Umea?
Corpus version2.0.
Description of the content of the SUC 2.0 dis-tribution, including the unfinished documentation byGunnel Ka?llgren.Pe?ter Hala?csy, Andra?s Kornai, and Csaba Oravecz 2007.HunPos - an open source trigram tagger.
In: Pro-ceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics Companion Vol-ume Proceedings of the Demo and Poster Sessions,pages 209?212.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Prague, Czech Republic.Lennart Lo?nngren.
1992.
Svenskt associationslexikon,del I?IV.
Department of Linguistics and Philology,Uppsala University.Bea?ta B. Megyesi.
2008.
The Open Source TaggerHunPoS for Swedish.
Department of Linguistics andPhilology, Uppsala University.Csaba Oravecz, Ba?lint Sass, and Eszter Simon 2010.Semi-automatic Normalization of Old HungarianCodices.
In: Proceedings of the ECAI 2010 Workshopon Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, SocialSciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH 2010).
Pages 55?59.
16 August, 2010 Faculty of Science, University ofLisbon Lisbon, Portugal.Marco Pennacchiotti and Fabio Massimo Zanzotto 2008.Natural Language Processing Across Time: An Em-pirical Investigation on Italian.
In: Aarne Ranta andBengt Nordstro?m (Eds.
): Advances in Natural Lan-guage Processing.
GoTAL 2008, LNAI Volume 5221,pages 371?382.
Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.Vitor Rocio, Ma?rio Amado Alves, Jose?
Gabriel Lopes,Maria Francisca Xavier, and Grac?a Vicente.
1999.Automated Creation of a Partially Syntactically Anno-tated Corpus of Medieval Portuguese Using Contem-porary Portuguese Resources.
In: Proceedings of theATALA workshop on Treebanks, Paris, France.Carl Johan Schlyter.
1877.
Ordbok till Samlingen afSweriges Gamla Lagar.
Lund.Svenska Akademien.
2006.
Svenska Akademiens or-dlista o?ver svenska spra?ket.
Norstedts AkademiskaFo?rlag, Stockholm.Knut Fredrik So?derwall.
1884?1918.
Ordbok O?fversvenska medeltids-spra?ket, vol I?III.
Lund.Knut Fredrik So?derwall.
1953?1973.
Ordbok O?fversvenska medeltids-spra?ket, vol IV?V.
Lund.Ulf Teleman, Staffan Hellberg, and Erik Andersson.1999.
Svenska Akademiens grammatik.
Norstedts Or-dbok, Stockholm.95
