Proceedings of the Fifth Law Workshop (LAW V), pages 152?160,Portland, Oregon, 23-24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsIncreasing Informativeness in Temporal AnnotationJames PustejovskyDepartment of Computer ScienceBrandeis University MS 018Waltham, Massachusetts, 02454 USAjamesp@cs.brandeis.eduAmber StubbsDepartment of Computer ScienceBrandeis University MS 018Waltham, Massachusetts, 02454 USAastubbs@cs.brandeis.eduAbstractIn this paper, we discuss some of the chal-lenges of adequately applying a specificationlanguage to an annotation task, as embodiedin a specific guideline.
In particular, we dis-cuss some issues with TimeML motivated byerror analysis on annotated TLINKs in Time-Bank.
We introduce a document level in-formation structure we call a narrative con-tainer (NC), designed to increase informative-ness and accuracy of temporal relation identi-fication.
The narrative container is the defaultinterval containing the events being discussedin the text, when no explicit temporal anchoris given.
By exploiting this notion in the cre-ation of a new temporal annotation over Time-Bank, we were able to reduce inconsistenciesand increase informativeness when comparedto existing TLINKs in TimeBank.1 IntroductionIn linguistic annotation projects, there is often a gapbetween what the annotation schema is designed tocapture and how the guidelines are interpreted by theannotators and adjudicators given a specific corpusand task (Ide and Bunt, 2010; Ide, 2007).
The dif-ficulty in resolving these two aspects of annotationis compounded when tasks are looked at in a poten-tially incomplete annotation task; namely, where theguideline is following a specification to a point, butin fact human annotation is not even suggested ascomplete because it would be infeasible.
Creatingtemporal links to represent the timeline of events ina document is an example of this: human annota-tion of every possible temporal relationship betweenevents and times in a narrative would be an over-whelming task.In this paper, we discuss how temporal rela-tion annotation must be sensitive to two aspects ofthe task that were not mentioned in the TimeBankguideline (Pustejovsky et al, 2005): (a) sensitivityto the genre and style of the text; and (b) the interac-tion with discourse relations that explicitly referencethe flow of the narrative in the text.
We believe thatmaking reference to both these aspects in the textduring the annotation process will increase overallinformativeness and accuracy of the annotation.
Inthe present paper, we focus primarily on the first ofthese points, and introduce a document level infor-mation structure we call a narrative container (NC).Because of the impossibility of humans captur-ing every relationship, it is vital that the annotationguidelines describe an approach that will result inmaximally informative temporal links without rely-ing on standards that are too difficult to apply.
Withthis in mind, we have been examining the TimeBankcorpus (Pustejovsky et al, 2003) and the annotationguideline that created it, and have come to these re-alizations:(1) ?
The guideline does not specify certain typesof annotations that should be performed;?
The guideline forces some annotations to beperformed when they should not always be.Additionally, we have discovered some inconsisten-cies in the TimeBank corpus related to temporallinks.
Furthermore, upon examination, we have be-come aware of the importance of the text style and152genre, and how readers interpret temporally unah-chored events.This gave rise, in examining the genres that aremost frequent in TimeBank (namely news and fi-nance), to the possibility that readers of news ar-ticles and narratives have possible default assump-tions about when unanchored events take place.
Itseems reasonable for a reader to assume in a sen-tence such as: Oneida Ltd. declared a 10% stockdividend, payable Dec. 15 to stock of record Nov.17, that the ?declared?
event took place soon beforethe article?s Document Creation Time (DCT).Exactly how soon before may be related to someproximate interval of time associated with both thepublication time and frequency.
That is, it appearsthat just as importantly, if not more so, than the DCT,is a related and dependent notion of the salient in-terval surrounding the creation time, for interpretingthe events that are being reported or written about.We will call this the Narrative Container.
Thereseems to be a default value for this container affectedby many variables.
For example, a print newspaperseems to associate in the content and style a nar-rative container of approximately 24 hours, or onebusiness day.
A newswire article, on the other hand,has a narrative container of 2-10 hours.
Conversely,weekly and monthly publications would likely havea narrative container of a much longer duration (aweek or more).Along with the narrative container, there are tworelated concepts that proved useful in framing thisnew approach to temporal annotation.
The Narra-tive Scope describes the timespan described in thedocument, with the left marker defined by the earli-est event mentioned in the document, and the rightby the event furthest in the future.
The other impor-tant concept is that of Narrative Time.
A NarrativeTime is essentially the current temporal anchor forevents in a document, and can change as the readermoves through the narrative.With these as initial assumptions we did somecursory inspection of the TimeBank data to deter-mine if there was a correlation between NarrativeContainer length and genre, and found it to be acompelling assumption.
With that in mind, we de-termined that TLINK creation should be focused onrelationships to the narrative container, rather thanto the DCT.Our goal is, to the extent possible, to see howwe can use a container metaphor, albeit somewhatunderspecified, to left-delineate the container withinwhich unanchored events might be in relation to.2 Identifying Temporal RelationsWhile low-level temporal annotation tasks such asidentifying events and time expressions are rela-tively straightforward and can be marked up withhigh consistency, high-level tasks such as arrang-ing events in a document in a temporal order haveproved to be much more challenging.
The tempo-ral ordering of events in a document, for example, isaccomplished by identifying all distinct event-eventpairings.
For a document that has n events, thisrequires the annotation of(n2)events pairs.
Ob-viously, for general-purpose annotation, where allpossible events are considered, the number of eventpairs grows essentially quadratically to the numberof events, and the task quickly becomes unmanage-able.There are, however, strategies that we can adoptto make this labeling task more tractable.
First weneed to distinguish the domains over which orderingrelations are performed.
Temporal ordering relationsin text are of three kinds:(2) a.
A relation between two events;b.
A relation between two times;c. A relation between a time and an event.TimeML, as a formal specification of the temporalinformation conveyed in language, makes no dis-tinction between these ordering types.
But a humanreader of a text does make a distinction, based onthe discourse relations established by the author ofthe narrative (Miltsakaki et al, 2004; Poesio, 2004).Temporal expressions denoting the local NarrativeContainer in the text act as embedding intervalswithin which events occur.
Within TimeML, theseare event-time anchoring relations (TLINKs).
Dis-course relations establish how events relate to oneanother in the narrative, and hence should constraintemporal relations between two events.
Thus, oneof the most significant constraints we can impose isto take advantage of the discourse structure in thedocument before event-event ordering relations areidentified.153Although, in principle, during an annotation atemporal relation can be specified between any twoevents in the text, it is worth asking what informa-tiveness a given temporal relation introduces to theannotation.
The informativeness of an annotationwill be characterized as a function of the informationcontained in the individual links and their closure.We can distinguish, somewhat informally for now,two sources of informativeness in how events aretemporally ordered relative to each other in a text:(a) externally and (b) internally.
Consider first ex-ternal informativeness.
This is information derivedfrom relations outside the temporal relation con-straint set, e.g., as coming from explicit discourse re-lations between events (and hence is associated withthe relations in (2a) above).
For example, we willassume that, for two events, e1 and e2, in a text, thetemporal relation between them is more informativeif they are also linked through a discourse relation,e.g., a PDTB relation (Prasad et al, 2008).
Mak-ing such an assumption will allow us to focus in onthe temporal relations that are most valuable withouthaving to exhaustively annotate all event pairs.Now consider internal informativeness.
This isinformation derived from the nature of the relationitself, as defined largely by the algebra of relations(Allen, 1984; Vilain et al, 1986).
First, we assumethat, for two events, e1 and e2, a temporal relationR1 is more informative than R2 if R1 entails R2.More significantly, however, as noted above, is tocapitalize on the relations that inhere between eventsand the times that anchor them (i.e., (2c) above).Hence, we will say that, given an event, e1 and atime t1, a temporal relation R is more informativethe more it anchors e1 to t1.
That is, a containmentrelation is more informative than an ordering rela-tion, and the smaller the container, the more infor-mative the relation.1The Document Creation Time (DCT) as designedin TimeML is introduced as a reference time, againstwhich the mentioned events and time expressions inthe document can be ordered.
Consider the text frag-ment below.1We defer discussion of the formal definition of informative-ness for the present paper, as we are focusing on initial resultsover re-annotated data in TimeBank.4-10-2011Local officials reported yesterday that acar exploded in downtown Basra.The TimeML annotation guideline (AG) suggestsidentifying relations between the DCT and textualevents.
Hence standard markup as in TimeBank re-sults in the following sort of annotation:(3) a. DCT= t1, val=10-04-2011b.
t2 = yesterday, val=09-04-2011b.
e1 = reportc.
e2 = exploded.
TLINK1 = before(e1, t1)e. TLINK2 = before(e2, t1)f. TLINK3 = includes(t2, e1)This is a prototypical annotation fragment.
Noticethat by focusing on the link between events and theDCT, the annotator is forced to engage in a kind ofperiodic ?back-and-forth?
evaluation of the eventsin the text, relative to the DCT.
While there is a con-tainer TIMEX3 that bounds e1, there is no informa-tion given grounding the actual time of the event ofinterest, namely, the explosion, e2.
By following theAG literally and through no fault of their own, theannotators have missed an opportunity to provide amore informative markup; namely, the identificationof the TLINK below:(4) TLINK4 = includes(t2, e2)That is, the explosion occurred on the date valuedfor yesterday, i.e., ?09-04-2011?.The point of this paper is to discuss the differenceencountered when applying a specification given aparticular guideline for annotating a body of text.The example we want to discuss is the manner inwhich events are linked (related) to the DocumentCreation Time (DCT) in TimeML.
These consider-ations have arisen in the context of new annotationproblems in different genre and domains, hoping toapply the principles of TimeML.3 Narrative ScopeAs previously mentioned, the Narrative Scope of adocument is the temporal span over which the eventsin a document occur, as defined by the timexes in a154document.
While not every event in a document willnecessarily occur inside the Narrative Scope (somemay still occur before or after any dates that arespecifically mentioned), the Narrative Scope pro-vides a useful container for describing when eventsdiscussed most likely occurred.
The narrative scopewas not considered as part of the annotation task,but it did help to ground the concepts of NarrativeContainers and Narrative Times.4 Narrative TimeAs a reader moves through a document, the intro-duction of a new TIMEX will often shift the tem-poral focus of the events to be anchored to this newtime point (Smith, 2003).
These temporal anchorsare what we refer to as Narrative Times, and func-tion in much the same way as newly introduced lo-cations in spatial annotation.However, consider how we can use NarrativeTimes to increase accuracy of the TLINKS over adocument in TimeML.
As mentioned above, we dis-tinguish three types of temporal orderings in a text:time-time, event-time, and event-event.
The firstidentifies orderings between two TIMEX3 expres-sions and is performed automatically.
The secondidentifies what the local Narrative Time for an eventis, i.e., how an EVENT is anchored to a TIMEX3.Event-event pairings, for the purposes of this paper,will not be discussed, though they are a vital andcomplex component of temporal annotation, largelyinvolving discourse relations.To illustrate our proposed strategy, consider thenews article text shown below.April 25, 2010 7:04 p.m. EDT -t0S1: President Obama paid-e1 tribute Sunday -t1to 29 workers killed-e2 in an explosion -e3 at aWest Virginia coal mine earlier this month- t2,saying-e4 they died-e5 ?in pursuit of the Amer-ican dream.
?S2: The blast-e6 at the Upper Big Branch Minewas the worst U.S. mine disaster in nearly 40years.There are three temporal expressions in the abovetext: the Document Creation time, t0; and twoTIMEXes, t1 and t2.
Each of these TIMEXes func-tions as a Narrative Time, as they are clearly provid-ing temporal anchors to nearby events.
In this case,all the events are located within the Narrative Timeappropriate to them.
Hence, the number of order-ings is linearly determined by the number of eventsin the document, since each is identified with a sin-gle Narrative Time.
Knowing the narrative time as-sociated with each event will allow us to performlimited temporal ordering between events that areassociated with different narrative times, which, asmentioned above, is significantly more informativethan if events were only given partial orderings tothe DCT or to each other.5 Narrative ContainersSo far we have examined sentences that containspecific temporal anchors for the events discussed.Consider, however, the following sentences from ar-ticle wsj 1031.tml in TimeBank:10-26-19891 Philip Morris Cos., New York, adopted adefense measure designed to make a hostiletakeover prohibitively expensive.2 The giant foods, tobacco and brewing companysaid it will issue common-share purchase rights toshareholders of record Nov. 8.Aside from the DCT, the only TIMEX in thesetwo sentences is Nov. 8, which is only anchoring is-sue and record.
The other events in the sentencescan only be connected to the DCT, and presum-ably only in a ?before?
or ?after?
TLINK?in the ab-sence of other information, any reader would assumefrom the past tenses of adopted and said that theseevents occurred before the article was published, andthat any events associated with the future (make,takeover) are intended to happen after the DCT.However most readers, knowing that the WallStreet Journal is published daily, will likely assumethat any event mentioned which is not specificallyassociated with a date, occurred within a certaintime frame?it would be extremely unusual for anewspaper to use the construction presented aboveif the events actually occurred, for example, a yearor even a week prior to the publication date.
We callthis assumed window the Narrative Container, as itprovides left and right boundaries for when unan-155t2 "earlier this month"t1"Sunday"e3explosione5 "died"e1 "paid" e2 "killed"e4"saying"t0 DCT e6 "blast"t0 DCTt1 "Sunday"e2 "killed"t2 earlierthis monthe5 "died" e6 "blast" e1 "paid"e4"saying"e3explosionABFigure 1: A: Times and events as appearing in the text; B: events grouped into their appropriate Narrative Times.chored events most likely occurred, where in pre-vious TimeML annotations these events would usu-ally be given one-sided relationships to the DCT.
Inmost cases, the right boundary of the Narrative Con-tainer is the DCT.
The left boundary, however, re-quires other factors about the article to be taken intoaccount before it can be given a value.
The primaryfactor is how frequently the source of the documentis published, but other aspects of the article may alsodetermine the Narrative Container size.5.1 Style, Genre, Channel, and AnchorsIn order to determine what factors might influencethe interpretation of the size of a Narrative Con-tainer, we asked an undergraduate researcher to cat-egorize each of the articles in TimeBank accordingto the following characteristics (Lee, 2001; Biber,2009).
(5) ?
Channel: is the document written or spoken??
Production circumstances: how was the doc-ument distributed?
broadcast, newswire, dailypublication;?
Style: what format was used to present theinformation??
Presence of a temporal anchor: Whether anarticle contained a Narrative Time in the firstsentence of the document.In general, we felt that the production circum-stances would be the most relevant in determiningthe duration of the Narrative Container.
The distri-butions of the different categories in TimeBank areshown in Table 1.
There is a 100% overlap betweenthe ?broadcast?
and ?spoken?
subcategories?all ofthose articles are word-for-word transcripts of tele-vision news reports.
The ?style?
category proved themost difficult to define?the ?quiz?
article is a broad-cast transcript of a geography question asked duringthe evening news, while the ?biography?
articles areoverviews of people?s lives.
The editorials include aletter to the editor of the Wall Street Journal and aneditorial column from the New York Times.Category number percentProduction Circ.broadcast 25 13.7%daily paper 140 76.5%newswire 18 9.8%Channelspoken 25 13.7%written 158 86.3%Stylebiography 2 1.1%editorial 2 1.1%finance 135 73.8%news 43 23.5%quiz 1 0.5%Temporal Anchorno 138 75.4%yes 45 24.6%Table 1: Distributions of categories in TimeBank6 Preliminary StudiesIn order to assess the validity of our theories on Nar-rative Containers, Time, and Scope, we asked threeundergraduate researchers to re-annotate TimeBankusing the Narrative Container theory as a guide.Each annotator evaluated all of the events inTimeBank by identifying the temporal constraintthat anchored the event.
If the annotators felt thatthe event was not specifically anchored, they could156place it within the Narrative Container for the docu-ment, or they could give the event a simple ?before?or ?after?
value related to the Narrative Container orDocument Creation Time.
We also asked them toassign start and end times to the Narrative Containerfor each document.The annotation here was not intended to be ascomplete as the TimeBank annotation task, or eventhe TempEval tasks?rather, the goal was to deter-mine if the Narrative Container theory could be ap-plied in a way that resulted in an increase in infor-mativeness, and whether the annotators could workwith the idea of a Narrative Container.
Becausethese annotations are not comprehensive in theirscope, the analysis provided here is somewhat pre-liminary, but we believe it is clear that the use of aNarrative Container in temporal annotations is bothinformative and intuitive.6.1 Narrative container agreementEach annotator was asked to assign a value to thenarrative container of each document.
They weregiven limited directions as to what the size of an NCmight be: only some suggestions regarding possiblecorrelations between type and frequency of publica-tion and size of the narrative container.
For example,it was suggested that a news broadcast might have anarrative container of only a few hours, a daily news-paper would have one of a day (or one that extendedto the previous business day), and a newswire articlewould have a narrative container that extended back24 hours from the time of publication.All the annotators agreed that an NC would notextend forward beyond the document creation time(DCT), and that in most cases the NC would end atthe DCT.
Because the annotators gave their data onthe size of the NC in free text (for example, an an-notator would say ?1 day?
to indicate that the NCfor an article began the day before the article waspublished) the comparison of the narrative contain-ers was performed manually by one of the authors todetermine if the annotators agreed on the size of theNC.Agreement was determined using a fairly strictmatching criterion?if the narrative containers givenwere clearly referring to the same interval they wereinterpreted to be the same.
If, however, there wasambiguity about the date or one annotator indicateda smaller time period than another, then they werejudged to be different.
A common example of am-biguity was related to newspaper articles that werewritten on Mondays?annotators could not alwaysdetermine if the events described occurred the daybefore, or on the previous business day For eval-uation purposes, the ambiguous cases were given?maybe?
values, but were not included in analysisthat relied on the NCs being the same.Overall, using the strict agreement metric all theannotators agreed on the size of the narrative con-tainer in 95 out of 183 articles?slightly over 50% ofthe time.
However, the annotators only completelydisagreed on 6 of the 183 articles?in all other casesthere was some level of agreement between pairs ofannotators.6.2 NCs and Document ClassificationsWe compared Narrative Container agreementsagainst the categories outlined above: style, channel,production circumstances, and temporal anchoringsin order to determine if any of those attributes lentthemselves to agreement about the size of the Narra-tive Container.
We disregarded the biography, quiz,and editorial classifications as those categories weretoo small to provide useful data.For the most part, no one category stood out aslending itself to accuracy?newswire had the high-est levels of agreement at 72%, while daily paperscame in at 58%.
Written channels had 60% agree-ment, and the finance style had 59%.
Articles withtemporal anchors in the beginning of the documentwere actually slightly less likely to have agreementon the Narrative Container than those that didn?t?48% and 53%, respectively.While the higher disagreement levels over Nar-rative Container size in the presence of a temporalanchor seems counter-intuitive, it stems from a sim-ple cause: if the temporal anchor overlapped withthe expected narrative container but was not exactlythe same size, sometimes one annotator would usethat anchor as the Narrative Container, while the oth-ers would not.
This sometimes also happened witha Narrative Time that was not at the start of thedocument or sometimes even the Narrative Scopewould be used as the Narrative Container.
Whilein some articles it is the case that a Narrative Timeanchors more events than the Narrative Container,157lllll0.00.20.40.60.81.0Fleiss Kappa by Article CategoryFleiss Kappallll0.00.20.40.60.81.0llll0.00.20.40.60.81.0lllll0.00.20.40.60.81.0Broadcast Daily Newswire Spoken Written Finance News No YesProduction Circ Channel Style Temporal AnchoringsFigure 2: Distributions of Fleiss Kappa scores over TimeBank categoriesthat does not make that Narrative Time the Nar-rative Container for the document?the NarrativeContainer is always the interval during which anunanchored event would be assumed to have takenplace.
This point of confusion can easily be clarifiedin the guidelines.Spoken/broadcast articles had the lowest agree-ment on Narrative Container size, with none of thosearticles having complete agreement between anno-tators.
This was largely caused by our annotatorsnot agreeing on how much time those categorieswould encompass by default?two felt that the narra-tive containers for broadcast news would extend toonly a few hours before going on air, and the otherfelt that, like a daily paper, the entire previous daywould be included when dealing with unanchoredtimes.As for the question of how large a Narrative Con-tainer should be for broadcast articles, the size of allNarrative Containers will need to be studied morein depth in order to determine how widely they canbe applied?
it is possible that in general, the actualsize is less important than the simple concept of theNarrative Container.6.3 Agreement over event anchorsThe annotators were asked to read each article inTimeBank and ?create links from each event to thenearest timex or to the DNC.?
They were askedspecifically to not link an event to another event,only to find the time that would be used to anchoreach event in a timeline.
The annotators were alsoasked to use only three relationship types: before,after, and is included (which also stood in for ?over-lap?).
This was done in order to keep the annotationas simple as possible: we wanted to see if the narra-tive container was a useful tool in temporal annota-tion, not produce a full gold standard corpus.This differs from the TimeML annotation guide-lines, which suggested only that ?A TLINK has tobe created each time a temporal relationship hold-ing between events or an event and a time needs tobe annotated.?
(Saur??
et al, 2006) Examples givenwere for sentences such as ?John drove to Boston onMonday?
?cases where an event was specifically re-lated to a time or another event.
However, becausesuch examples were relatively rare, and temporal re-lationships are not always so clearly expressed, thisannotation method resulted in a corpus that was notoptimally informative.
TimeML also uses a fullerset of temporal relations.The NC annotations, on the other hand, are muchricher in terms of informativeness.
Annotators mostoften linked to the NC, often with an ?is included?relationship (as in: e1 is included NC).
In fact,roughly 50% of the events were linked to the narra-tive container and had ?is included?
as the relation-ship type.
In previous TimeML annotations, most ofthose events would have been annotated as simplyoccurring before or overlapping with the documentcreation time, which is a significantly less informa-tive association.
Clearly the narrative container wasan intuitive concept for the annotators, and one thatwas relevant to their annotations.6.3.1 Inter-annotator agreementWe used Fleiss?
kappa (Fleiss, 1971) to obtain valuesfor agreement between the three annotators: first,we compared the number of times they agreed whatthe temporal anchor for an event should be, then wecompared whether those links that matched had thesame relation type.
Data analysis was done in R withthe irr package (R Team, 2009; Gamer et al, 2010).158said (e1)enable (e10)declared (e2)purchase (e12)issue (e18)exercised (e14)90 days(t31)issued (e7)issue (e32)10/26/89 (t30) (DCT)said (e8)has (e5)said (e17)10/25/89 ?
10/26/89 (NC)10/26/89 (t30) (DCT)said (e1)declared (e2)has (e5)issued (e7)said (e8)issue (e32)said (e17)90 days (t31)exercised (e14)enable  (e10)purchase(e12)issue (e18)TimeBank annotation Narrative Container annotationWall Street Journal - wsj_1042.tmlFigure 3: Visual depictions of the TLINK annotations in TimeBank and with the Narrative Container annotations.Solid lines indicate events and times in the box have IS INCLUDED relationships with the timex at the top, anddotted lines indicate events that were given IDENTITY relationshipsWhen looking at the kappa scores for the tempo-ral anchor, it should be noted that these scores donot always accurately reflect the level of agreementbetween annotators.
Because of the lack of variabil-ity, Fleiss?
Kappa will interpret any article where anannotator only linked events to the NC received neg-ative agreement scores.
These values have been leftin the tables as data points, but it should be notedthat these annotations are entirely valid?some ar-ticles in TimeBank contain no temporal informationother than the document creation time (and by exten-sion, the narrative container), making it only naturalfor the annotators to annotate events only in rela-tion to the narrative container.
The average Fleiss?Kappa scores for the temporal anchors was .74, witha maximum of 1 and a minimum of -.04.6.4 Informativeness in NC AnnotationAs we previously described, Narrative Containersare theoretically more informative than DocumentCreation Times when trying to place unanchoredevents on a timeline.
In practice, they are as infor-mative as we anticipated: compare the visualizationsof TLINK annotations between TimeBank and theNC links in Figure 3.
These were created from thefile wsj 1042.tml, one that had complete agreementbetween annotators about both the size of the NC(one day before the DCT through the DCT) and allthe temporal anchors and temporal relations.Clearly, the NC task has resulted in a more in-formative annotation?all the events have at least oneconstraint, and most have both left and right con-straints.7 Conclusions and Future WorkNarrative Containers, Narrative Times, and Narra-tive Scopes are important tools for temporal annota-tion tasks.
The analysis provided here clearly showsthat annotating with an NC increases informative-ness, and that the concept is sufficiently intuitive forit to not add confusion to the already complicatedtask of temporal annotation.
However, the work inthis area is far from complete.
In the future we in-tend to study where the left boundary of the NCshould be placed for different genres and publica-tion frequencies.
Another annotation task must beperformed, requiring a more comprehensive TLINKcreation guideline, using both event-time and event-event links.
Finally, the use of all three concepts forautomated annotation tasks should be examined, asthey may prove as useful to machines as they are tohumans.AcknowledgementsThis work has been supported by NSF grant#0753069 to Co-PI James Pustejovsky.
Many thanksto Chiara Graf, Zac Pustejovsky, and Virginia Par-tridge for their help creating the annotations, and toBJ Harshfield for his R expertise.
We would alsolike to acknowledge Aravind Joshi, Nianwen Xue,and Marc Verhagen for useful input.159ReferencesJames Allen.
1984.
Towards a general theory of actionand time.
Arificial Intelligence, 23:123?154.Douglas Biber.
2009.
Register, Genre, and Style.J.
L. Fleiss.
1971.
Measuring nominal scale agree-ment among many raters.
Psychological Bulletin,76(5):378?382.Matthias Gamer, Jim Lemon, and Ian Fellows Pus-pendra Singh ?puspendra.pusp22@gmail.com?, 2010.irr: Various Coefficients of Interrater Reliability andAgreement.
R package version 0.83.Nancy Ide and Harry Bunt.
2010.
Anatomy of annota-tion schemes: Mappings to graf.
In In Proceedings 4thLinguistic Annotation Workshop (LAW IV).Nancy Ide.
2007.
Annotation science: From theory topractice and use: Data structures for linguistics re-sources and applications.
In In Proceedings of the Bi-enniel GLDV Conference.David Lee.
2001.
Genres, registers, text types, domains,and styles: Clarifying the concepts and navigating apath through the bnc jungle.
Language Learning &Technology, 5(3.3):37?72.Eleni Miltsakaki, Rashmi Prasad, Aravind Joshi, andBonnie Webber.
2004.
The penn discourse treebank.In In Proceedings of LREC 2004.Massimo Poesio.
2004.
Discourse annotation and se-mantic annotation in the gnome corpus.
In In Proceed-ings of the ACL Workshop on Discourse Annotation.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Milt-sakaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber.
2008.
The penn discourse treebank 2.0.
InIn Proceedings of the 6th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008).James Pustejovsky, Patrick Hanks, Roser Saur?`, AndrewSee, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, DragomirRadev, Beth Sundheim, David Day, Lisa Ferro, andMarcia Lazo.
2003.
The timebank corpus.
InDawn Archer, Paul Rayson, Andrew Wilson, and TonyMcEnery, editors, Proceedings of the Corpus Linguis-tics 2003 conference, pages 647?656, Lancaster Uni-versity.
UCREL.James Pustejovsky, Robert Knippen, Jessica Littman, andRoser Saur??.
2005.
Temporal and event information innatural language text.
Language Resources and Eval-uation, 39:123?164, May.R Team, 2009.
R: A Language and Environment for Sta-tistical Computing.
R Foundation for Statistical Com-puting, Vienna, Austria.
ISBN 3-900051-07-0.Roser Saur?
?, Jessica Littman, Bob Knippen, RobertGaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, and James Pustejovsky,2006.
TimeML Annotation Guidelines, version 1.2.1edition, January.Carlota Smith.
2003.
Modes of Discourse.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK.Marc Vilain, Henry Kautz, and Peter Beek.
1986.
Con-straint propagation algorithms for temporal reasoning.In Readings in Qualitative Reasoning about PhysicalSystems, pages 377?382.
Morgan Kaufmann.160
