DISCUSS: A dialogue move taxonomy layered over semanticrepresentationsLee Becker1 Wayne H. Ward1,2 Sarel van Vuuren1 Martha Palmer1{lee.becker, martha.palmer, sarel.vanvuuren}@colorado.edu,wward@bltek.com1University of Colorado at Boulder, 2Boulder Language TechnologiesAbstractIn this paper we describe DISCUSS, a dialogue move taxonomy layered over semantic represen-tations.
We designed this scheme to enable development of computational models of tutorial dia-logues and to provide an intermediate representation suitable for question and tutorial act generation.As such, DISCUSS captures semantic and pragmatic elements across four dimensions: Dialogue Act,Rhetorical Form, Predicate Type, Semantic Roles.
Together these dimensions provide a summary ofan utterance?s propositional content and how it may change the underlying information state of theconversation.
This taxonomy builds on previous work in both general dialogue act taxonomies aswell as work in tutorial act and tutorial question categorization.
The types and values found withinour taxonomy are based on preliminary observations and on-going annotation from our corpus ofmultimodal tutorial dialogues for elementary school science education.1 IntroductionPast successes with conversational Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) (Graesser et al, 2001), have helpedto demonstrate the efficacy of computer-led, tutorial dialogue.
However, ITS will not reach their fullpotential until they can overcome current limitations in spoken dialogue technologies.
Producing systemscapable of leading open-ended, Socratic-style tutorials will likely require more sophisticated models toautomate analysis and generation of dialogue.
A well defined tutorial dialogue annotation scheme canserve as a stepping stone towards these goals.
Such a scheme should account for differences in tutoringstyle and question scaffolding techniques and should capture the subtle distinctions between differentquestion types.
To do this, requires a representation that connects a turn?s communicative and rhetoricalfunctions to its underlying semantic content.While efforts such as DAMSL (Core and Allen, 1997) and DIT++ (Bunt, 2009) have helped to makedialogue act annotation more uniform and applicable to a wider audience, and while tutoring-specificinitiatives (Tsovaltzi and Karagjosova, 2004; Buckley and Wolska, 2008) have helped to bring dialogueacts to tutorial dialogue, the move granularity in these schemas is too coarse to capture the differencesin tutorial questioning styles exhibited in our corpus of Socratic-style tutorial dialogues.
Conversely,question type categories (Graesser and Person, 1994; Nielsen et al, 2008) have been designed witheducation in mind, but they largely ignore how the student and tutor may work together to constructmeaning.
The DISCOUNT scheme?s (Pilkington, 1999) combination of dialogue acts and rhetoricalfunctions enabled it to better capture tutoring moves, but its omission of shallow semantics prevents itfrom capturing how content influences behavior.Our long-term goals of automatic dialogue characterization, tutorial move prediction and questiongeneration led us to design our own dialogue representation called DISCUSS (Dialogue Scheme forUnifying Speech and Semantics).
Design of this dialogue move taxonomy was based on preliminaryobservations from our corpus of tutorial dialogues, and was influenced by the aforementioned research.We hope that undertaking this ambitious endeavor to capture not only a turn?s pragmatic interpretation,310but also its rhetorical and semantic functions will enable us to better model the complexity of open-ended,tutorial dialogue.The remainder of the this paper is organized as follows.
In the next section we describe our tutorialdialogue setting and our data.
Section 3 discusses the organization of the DISCUSS annotation scheme.Section 4 briefly explains the current status of our annotation.
Lastly section 5 outlines our future plansand conclusions.2 Tutorial Dialogue Setting and DataMy Science Tutor (MyST) (Ward et al, 2010) is a conversational virtual tutor designed to improvescience learning and understanding for students in grades 3-5.
Students using MyST investigate anddiscuss science through natural spoken dialogues and multimedia interactions with a virtual tutor namedMarni.
The MyST dialogue design and tutoring style is based on a pedagogy called Questioning theAuthor (QtA) (Beck et al, 1996), wherein the teacher facilitates discovery by challenging students withopen-ended questions and by directly keying in on ideas expressed in the student?s language.To gather data for MyST system coverage and dialogue analysis, we ran Wizard-of-Oz (WoZ) exper-iments that allowed a human tutor to be inserted into the interaction loop.
Project tutors trained in QtAserved as Wizards and were responsible for accepting and overriding system actions.
Over the past threeyears we have accumulated over five-hundred, 15-minute WoZ sessions across four modules Magnetismand Electricity, Measurement, Variables, and Water, each with 16 lessons.
Student speech from thesesessions was professionally transcribed at the word level.3 The DISCUSS Annotation SchemeThe Dialogue Scheme for Unifying Speech and Semantics (DISCUSS) is a multifaceted dialogue movetaxonomy intended to capture both the pragmatic and semantic interpretations of an utterance.
A DIS-CUSS move is a tuple composed of values from four dimensions: Dialogue Act, Rhetorical Form, Pred-icate Type, and Semantic Roles.
Together these dimensions convey the communicative action, surfaceform, and meaning of an utterance independent of the original utterance text.We designed DISCUSS to serve as an intermediate representation that will enable future work indialogue session characterization, dialogue strategy optimization, and automatic question generation.
Tofacilitate these goals, we have endeavored to create a taxonomy that is both descriptive and curriculum-independent while allowing for expansion as necessary.
A complete listing of all the DISCUSS movesand dimensions can be found in our forthcoming technical report.In the following subsection we will describe the different DISCUSS move categories.
Descriptionsof the Semantic Role and Predicate Type are found in the subsection about semantic dimensions, whilediscussion about the dialogue act and rhetorical form has been placed in the pragmatic dimensionssubsection.
Throughout the rest of this paper we denote DISCUSS tuples using the following notation:Dialogue Act/Rhetorical Form/Predicate Type ?Semantic Role?.3.1 Move CategoriesDISCUSS moves are dictated by the dialogue act dimension and may belong to one of three broad cate-gories: Dialogue Control, Information Exchange, and Attention Management.
Dialogue Control movesare largely concerned with maintaining and enabling the flow of information.
This includes dialogueacts such as Acknowledge, Open, Close, Repeat, and RequestRepeat.
The Information Exchange movesrelay content (often lesson-specific) between speakers using moves such as Assert, Ask, Answer, Mark,Revoice.
For tutorial dialogue the bulk of student-tutor interactions reside in this category.
Lastly, At-tention Management moves indicate how a speaker exercises initiative over other speakers or topics.Dialogue acts found in the attention category are Focus, Defer, Elicit, and Direct.3113.2 Semantic DimensionsThe semantic dimensions define the objects, events, properties and relations contained within an utter-ance.
The semantic roles at the lowest level of the DISCUSS hierarchy directly capture the propositionalentities.
Predicate Types summarize the interactions between all of the semantic roles found within anutterance.Semantic Roles: The MyST system models a lesson?s key concepts as propositions which are real-ized as semantic frames.
For MyST natural language understanding, these frames serve as the top-levelnodes for a manually written semantic grammar used by the Phoenix parser (Ward, 1994).
Two exampleconcepts/frames and Phoenix parses are shown below.
Although these semantic frames form the basisof MyST dialogues, for DISCUSS annotation we sought a more domain-independent representation thatwould generalize across a wide range of subjects.
We began with VerbNet (Schuler, 2005) for definingour set of semantic roles because of its intuitive balance between descriptiveness and portability.
Whilewe used a majority of the labels as is, we found that the definition of some roles needed to be modifiedor extended to properly cover our set of concepts.
For example, many concepts that express proportion-ality relationships can not be easily represented using predicate argument structure, and are more easilydecomposed into cause and effect roles.
We also added the catch-all keyword label to reflect terms thatmay relate to the proposition, but are not part of the core representation.For our annotation project, rather than manually tagging all of the utterances with VerbNet labels, wecreated a mapping layer between the Phoenix frame roles and the VerbNet roles.
The table below showstwo frames along with their role mappings.
We envision that in future projects, the hand-tuned semanticgrammars could be replaced with a statistically trained semantic role labeler.Frame: BatteryFunction Frame: MagnetsAttractDescription: The DCell is the source of elec-tricity.Description: Magnets attract to certain ob-jects.?Instrument?
: [Battery] ?Instrument?
: [Magnet]?Predicate?
: [Source] ?Predicate?
: [Attract]?Theme?
: [Electricity] ?Theme?
: [Object]Predicate Type: Simply knowing an utterance?s propositional content is insufficient for inferringwhat was stated.
Consider the two exchanges shown in the table below.
The mixture of semantic rolesin both students?
responses are identical.
Additionally, we can not differentiate between the exchangesbased solely on dialogue act or rhetorical form.
We need additional information to know the first scenarioseeks to elicit discussion about observations while the second scenario focuses on procedures.
One canalso imagine such information would be useful for identifying communication breakdowns.
For example,responding with a description of a procedure to a request about a process may indicate that the studentdid not understand the question or that the student is unwilling or unable to address the question.T12: Tell me about what?s going on here in this picture.Ask/Describe/ObservationS13: The wires connect the battery and the light bulb and then then light bulb lights up.Answer/Describe/Observation?Instrument?.wires ?Predicate?.connect ?Theme1?.battery ?Theme2?.light bulb ?Effect?.bulblights upT7: Tell me about how you got the bulb to light up.Ask/Describe/ProcedureS8: To make the light go we connected the wires to the battery and the bulb.Answer/Describe/Procedure?Effect?.light go ?Predicate?.connected ?Instrument?.wires ?Theme1?.battery ?Theme2?.bulbTo address this need, we created the Predicate Type based partly on the rhetorical predicates used inthe DISCOUNT (Pilkington, 1999) scheme.
While DISCOUNT included discourse relations in the setof predicate types, we restrict predicate types to those that encapsulate or summarize the collection ofsemantic roles in an utterance.
Example predicate types include procedure, observation and purpose.
Acomplete list of predicate types can be found in our forthcoming technical report.3123.3 Pragmatic DimensionsThe pragmatic dimensions are composed of the dialogue act dimension and the rhetorical form dimen-sion.
The dialogue act expresses the communicative function of a move and is the most general dimen-sion in DISCUSS.
The rhetorical form expresses attributes of the utterance?s surface realization and canbe thought of as refining the intent of the coarser dialogue act.Dialogue Act: The dialogue act dimension is the top-level dimension in DISCUSS with the valuesof all other dimensions depending on the value of this dimension.
Like with the majority of dialogueact taxonomies, DISCUSS dialogue acts have a grounding in speech act theory with a focus on whataction the utterance performs.
While most of the dialogue acts in the Dialogue Control and Informa-tion Exchange move categories have direct corollaries to those found in other taxonomies like DIT++ orDAMSL, we needed to supplement them with two frequently used Questioning the Author discussionmoves: marking and revoicing.
In marking, the tutor highlights parts of the student?s language to em-phasize important points and to steer the conversation towards key concepts.
Revoicing serves a similarpurpose, but instead of highlighting, the tutor rephrases student speech to clarify ideas they may havebeen struggling with.
Examples of these acts are shown below.S5: that when you stick a magnet to a rusty nail and then you stick it to a paper clip it sticksAnswer/Describe/ProcessT6: I think I heard you say something about magnets sticking or attracting.
Tell me more about that.Mark/None/None, Ask/Elaborate/ProcessS33: well when you scrub the the paperclip to the magnet the paperclip is starting to be a magnetAnswer/Describe/ProcessT34: very good, so if the magnet gets close to the paperclip it picks it upFeedback/Positive/None, Revoice/None/NoneDialogue acts in the Attention Management move category also reflect many of the actions regularlyseen in tutorial dialogue.
Focus and Defer acts are often used to move to or away from lesson-specifictopics.
In our corpus Direct is typically used to give instructions related to the multimedia (e.g.
?Clickon the box?
or ?Look at this animation.?
).Rhetorical Form: The DISCUSS Rhetorical Form dimension provides another mechanism for dif-ferentiating between utterances with identical semantic content.
While the dialogue act dimension isuseful for providing an utterance?s pragmatic interpretation and for determining what sequences are li-censed, by itself it provides no indication of how a speaker is advancing the topic under discussion.Additional information is needed to create an utterance?s surface form.
Consider the two transactionsin the table below.
The semantic parses in both scenarios would be identical, however the tutor?s ques-tions and the resulting student response serve very different functions.
In the first, the tutor is askingfor a description and in the second, identification.
Selection of the DISCUSS rhetorical forms found inthe Information Exchange move category were inspired by the sixteen top-level tags used in Rhetori-cal Structure Theory (RST) (Mann and Thompson, 1988).
While RST uses a rhetorical relation to linkclauses and to show the development of an argument, DISCUSS uses the rhetorical form to refine thedialogue act.
A sequence of dialogue acts paired with rhetorical forms can show progressions in thedialogue and tutoring process such as a shift from open-ended to directed questioning.T1: Can you tell which one is the battery?
T1: Can you describe what is going on with the battery?Ask/Describe/Visual Ask/Identify/NoneS2: The battery is putting out electricity.
S2: The battery is the one putting out the electricity.Answer/Describe/Process Answer/Identify/None4 Annotation StatusWe are still in the early stages of this ambitious annotation project.
We currently have approximately60 transcripts singly-annotated with DISCUSS moves.
Each of these transcripts represents roughly 15minutes of conversation and 50 turns on average.
The DISCUSS taxonomy is a work in progress.
Though313we have created the tags for each dimension based on a wide body of prior research and on preliminarystudies of our transcripts, we expect that future analysis of our annotation reliability and consistency willlikely lead us to add, modify, and combine tags.
We anticipate that DISCUSS?s multidimensional naturewill likely raise issues for inter-annotator reliability, and the ability to add multiple tags per turn willfurther complicate the process of evaluating agreement.5 Future Work and ConclusionsWe plan to use our corpus of DISCUSS annotated tutorial dialogues to build dialogue models for a varietyof applications including assessment of tutorial quality and dialogue move prediction.
This annotationwill allow us to investigate what features of tutorial dialogue correlate with increased learning gains andwhat types of questions encourage greater student interaction.
Data-driven dialogue characterization willalso allow us to explore how tutorial tactics vary across domains and tutors.
We envision this work as animportant first step towards automatic question generation.In this paper we introduced the DISCUSS dialogue move taxonomy.
This scheme overlays dialogueact and rhetorical annotation over semantic representations.
We believe this combination of pragmaticinterpretations and semantic representations provide an intermediate representation rich enough to an-alyze the interactions in a complex task-oriented domain like tutorial dialogue.
Furthermore, we thinkDISCUSS moves can succinctly summarize the actions of a speaker?s turn, while still providing suffi-cient information for natural language generation of dialogue moves.Acknowledgments This work was supported by grants from the NSF (DRL-0733322, DRL-0733323) and the IES (R3053070434).Any findings, recommendations, or conclusions are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of NSF orIES.ReferencesBeck, I. L., M. G. McKeown, J.
Worthy, C. A. Sandora, and L. Kucan (1996).
Questioning the author: A year-long classroomimplementation to engage students with text.
The Elementary School Journal 96(4), 387?416.Buckley, M. and M. Wolska (2008).
A classification of dialogue actions in tutorial dialogue.
In Proc.
COLING, pp.
73?80.ACL.Bunt, H. (2009).
The dit++ taxonomy for functional dialogue markup.
In Proc.
EDAML 2009.Core, M. and J. Allen (1997).
Coding dialogs with the damsl annotation scheme.
In AAAI Fall Symposium on Comm.
Action inHumans and Machines, pp.
28?35.Graesser, A., X. Hu, S. Susarla, D. Harter, N. Person, M. Louwerse, B. Olde, and the Tutoring Research Group (2001).Autotutor: An intelligent tutor and conversational tutoring scaffold.
In Proc.
AIED?01, pp.
47?49.Graesser, A. and N. Person (1994).
Question asking during tutoring.
American Educational Research Journal 31, 104?137.Mann, W. C. and S. A. Thompson (1988).
Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functional theory of text organization.
Text 8(3),243?281.Nielsen, R. D., J. Buckingham, G. Knoll, B. Marsh, and L. Palen (2008, September).
A taxonomy of questions for questiongeneration.
In Proc.
WS on the Question Generation STEC.Pilkington, R. M. (1999).
Analysing educational discourse: The discount scheme.
Technical Report 99/2, Computer BasedLearning Unit, University of Leeds.Schuler, K. K. (2005).
VerbNet: A broad-coverage, comprehensive verb lexicon.
Ph.
D. thesis, University of Pennsylvania.Tsovaltzi, D. and E. Karagjosova (2004).
A view on dialogue move taxonomies for tutorial dialogues.
In Proc.
SIGDial, pp.35?38.
ACL.Ward, W. (1994).
Extracting information from spontaneous speech.
In Proc.
ICSLP.Ward, W., R. Cole, D. Bolanos, C. Buchenroth-Martin, E. Svirsky, S. Van Vuuren, T. Weston, J. Zheng, and L. Becker (2010).My science tutor: A conversational multi-media virtual tutor for elementary school science.
ACM TSLP: Special Issue onSpeech and Language Processing of Children?s Speech for Child-machine Interaction Applications.314
