Proceedings of the 2011 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 83?91,Portland, Oregon, USA, June 23-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding a Coreference-Annotated Corpusfrom the Domain of BiochemistryRiza Theresa Batista-Navarro1,2,3,?
and Sophia Ananiadou1,2,?
?1National Centre for Text Mining, University of Manchester, United Kingdom2School of Computer Science, University of Manchester, United Kingdom3Department of Computer Science, University of the Philippines Diliman, Philippines?batistar@cs.man.ac.uk, ?
?sophia.ananiadou@manchester.ac.ukAbstractOne of the reasons for which the resolutionof coreferences has remained a challenginginformation extraction task, especially in thebiomedical domain, is the lack of trainingdata in the form of annotated corpora.
In or-der to address this issue, we developed theHANAPIN corpus.
It consists of full-text ar-ticles from biochemistry literature, coveringentities of several semantic types: chemicalcompounds, drug targets (e.g., proteins, en-zymes, cell lines, pathogens), diseases, or-ganisms and drug effects.
All of the co-referring expressions pertaining to these se-mantic types were annotated based on the an-notation scheme that we developed.
We ob-served four general types of coreferences inthe corpus: sortal, pronominal, abbreviationand numerical.
Using the MASI distancemetric, we obtained 84% in computing theinter-annotator agreement in terms of Krip-pendorff?s alpha.
Consisting of 20 full-text,open-access articles, the corpus will enableother researchers to use it as a resource fortheir own coreference resolution methodolo-gies.1 IntroductionCoreferences are linguistic expressions referring tothe same real-world entity (Jurafsky and Martin,2009).
The process of grouping all co-referring ex-pressions in text into respective coreference chains isknown as coreference resolution.
It was introducedas one of the tasks of the sixth Message Understand-ing Conference (MUC-6) in 1995 (Grishman andSundheim, 1995) and is one of the information ex-traction tasks which have remained a challenge tothis day.
One of the reasons it is still consideredan unresolved problem especially in the biomedicaldomain is the lack of coreference-annotated corporawhich are needed for developing coreference resolu-tion systems.There exist only a handful of biomedical corporawhich are annotated with coreference information.We have conducted a review of each of them, tak-ing into consideration their sizes, document compo-sition, domain, types of markable entities, types ofcoreference annotated, availability, and reliability interms of inter-annotator agreement.
Of these, onlytwo corpora have been used in coreference resolu-tion systems developed outside the research groupthat annotated them: MEDSTRACT (Castano et al,2002), and the MEDCo1 corpus of abstracts whichwas used by the different teams who participatedin the Coreference Supporting Task of the BioNLP2011 Shared Task2.
These two corpora are widelyused, despite the fact that they are composed only ofabstracts.Previous studies have shown the advantages ofutilising full-text articles rather than abstracts ininformation extraction systems (Shah et al, 2003;Schumie et al, 2004; Cohen et al, 2010a).
Further-more, recent research on fact extraction (McIntoshand Curran, 2009) has demonstrated the need forprocessing full-text articles when identifying coref-erent expressions pertaining to biomedical entities.1http://nlp.i2r.a-star.edu.sg/medco.html2http://sites.google.com/site/bionlpst/home/protein-gene-coreference-task83However, coreference-annotated corpora composedof full-text articles are not readily accessible.
Cur-rently, only the FlySlip corpus (Gasperin et al,2007) is available for download.
In this corpus,only gene-related entities were considered for coref-erence annotation.
Thus, there is a need for devel-oping full-text corpora with coreference annotationsfor more semantic types.
This is currently being ad-dressed by the CRAFT project (Cohen et al, 2010b)which seeks to develop a corpus of full-text articleswith coreference annotations for more types of en-tities; it was not explicitly stated, however, exactlywhich types are being covered.
Similarly, we aredeveloping a corpus of full-text articles with corefer-ence annotations, but to further the aim of coveringas many semantic types as possible, we selected adomain that covers a variety of semantic concepts.Research literature from this biochemistry subdo-main, marine natural products chemistry, containsreferences pertaining to chemical compounds, or-ganisms, drug targets such as proteins, enzymes, nu-cleic acids, tissues, cells, cell components, cell linesand pathogens, drug effects, as well as diseases.
Wecover a number of entity types with the intention ofproviding more insight into how to disambiguate co-referring expressions of different semantic types.An annotation scheme was developed, taking intoconsideration the coreference types which have beenobserved from the corpus, namely: sortal, pronom-inal, numerical and abbreviation.
Three chemistrygraduates were employed to annotate the corpus.
Todetermine the reliability of the resulting annotations,we measured inter-annotator agreement in terms ofKrippendorff?s alpha.2 Related WorkCoreference is often associated with the phe-nomenon of anaphora which is characterised byan expression (called an anaphor) that points backto an entity previously mentioned in the same dis-course (called antecedent).
Anaphora resolutionis the process of determining the antecedent of ananaphor.
While the output of anaphora resolutionis a set of anaphor-antecedent pairs, that of corefer-ence resolution is a set of coreference chains whichcan be treated as equivalence classes.
Despite thisdifference, an overlap between them may be ob-served in several cases.
Often, a number of anaphor-antecedent pairs from a discourse are coreferentialor refer to the same entity in the same domain,and may be placed in the same coreference chain.For this reason, we also included in our reviewof biomedical corpora those which were annotatedwith anaphora information and refer to them hence-forth as coreference-annotated corpora.We determined the types of coreference anno-tated in each corpus we have reviewed, adaptingMitkov?s classification of anaphora (Mitkov et al,2000) which is also applicable to coreference.
Nom-inal coreference is characterised by co-referring ex-pressions pertaining to a noun.
It is further dividedinto pronominal coreference and sortal coreferencewhich use a pronoun and a lexical noun phrase,respectively, as co-referring expressions.
Unlikenominal coreference, verbal coreference is char-acterised by co-referring expressions pertaining toverbs.
Both nominal and verbal coreference canbe broadly categorised according to the kind ofrelation as direct or indirect.
In direct corefer-ence, co-referring expressions are related by iden-tity, synonymy or specialisation; in indirect corefer-ence, they are related by associative relations such asmeronymy or holonymy for nouns, and troponymyor entailment for verbs.
Annotation of indirectcoreference is usually more challenging as it re-quires more specialised domain knowledge.Presently, there are five (5) different biomedicalcorpora which are annotated with coreference in-formation: MEDSTRACT (Castano et al, 2002),MEDCo3, FlySlip (Gasperin et al, 2007), the Col-orado Richly Annotated Full Text (CRAFT) cor-pus (Cohen et al, 2010b) and DrugNerAr (Segura-Bedmar et al, 2009).The MEDCo corpus has two subsets, one consist-ing of abstracts (which we shall refer to as MEDCo-A) and another consisting of full papers (MEDCo-B).
The results of our review of all five corporaare presented in Table 1.
Included in the last row(HANAPIN) are the attributes of the corpus that wehave developed for comparison with existing cor-pora.Three of them, MEDSTRACT, MEDCo andDrugNerAr, adapted an annotation scheme similar3http://nlp.i2r.a-star.edu.sg/medco.html84Table1:ComparisonofBiomedicalCorporawithCoreferenceAnnotationsCorpusSchemeDocumentDomain/CoreferenceAvailabilityFormatReliabilityAdaptedCompositionMarkablesTypesMEDSTRACTMUCCS100abstractsmolecularbiology/directnominalpubliclyXMLunknownUMLStypesavailableMEDCo-AMUCCS1999abstractshumanbloodcelldirectnominalpubliclyXMLKrippendorff?salpha:transcriptionfactors/available83%on15abstractsGENIATermOntologytypesMEDCo-BMUCCS43fullpapershumanbloodcelldirectnominalcurrentlyXMLKrippendorff?salpha:transcriptionfactors/unavailable80.7%on2fullpapersGENIATermOntologytypesFlySlipdomain-5fullpapersfruitflygenomics/directandpubliclyXMLKappascore:specificgeneticentitiesindirectavailablegreaterthan83%sortaloneachpaperCRAFTOntoNotes97fullpapersmousegenomics/directnominalcurrentlySGMLKrippendorff?salpha:allencounteredandverbalandunavailable61.9%on10fullpapersDrugNerArMUCCS49DrugBankdrug-druginteractions/directnominalpubliclyXMLunknowntextsdrugsavailableHANAPINMEDCo20fullpapersmarinenaturaldirectnominal,currentlyXMLKrippendorff?salpha:productschemistry/numerical&unavailable75%averagedchemicalcompounds,abbreviation(tobereleasedover20papers;organisms,drugpublicly)84%usingtheMASItargets,drugdistancemetriceffects,diseases85to that of the Message Understanding Conferencescheme or MUCCS (Hirschman, 1997).
Using theStandard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) asannotation format, MUCCS creates a link betweenco-referring expressions by setting the value of anattribute of the referring element to the ID of the ref-erent.The same mechanism is used in the annotationof MEDSTRACT, MEDCo and DrugNerAr, butwith respective extensions to account for more spe-cific relations (e.g., appositive relation in the caseof MEDCo).
On the contrary, rather than link-ing the referring expression to its referent, an an-notator explicitly places co-referring expressions inthe same coreference chain with OntoNotes, thescheme adapted in annotating the CRAFT corpus.FlySlip can be considered unique in terms of itsannotation scheme as it adapted a domain-specificscheme which was necessary since indirect corefer-ences were annotated.
All corpora are available inthe form of a mark-up language (SGML or XML).The five corpora can be grouped into three accord-ing to general domain: molecular biology (MED-STRACT and MEDCo), genomics (FlySlip andCRAFT), and pharmacology (DrugNerAr).
MED-STRACT and MEDCo both have coreference an-notations for semantic types from the UMLS andthe GENIA ontology, respectively, which can bebroadly categorised into compound, organism, pro-tein, gene and cell.
Each of the FlySlip andDrugNerAr corpora, on the other hand, have anno-tations for only one general semantic type: gene-related entities and drugs, respectively.
CRAFT isunique in this respect as its developers seek to anno-tate all co-referring expressions regardless of seman-tic type; the semantic types that have been encoun-tered so far have not yet been reported, however.In terms of coreference types for which annota-tions have been added, CRAFT is the only corpuswith annotations for verbal coreference; all the resthave annotations only for pronominal and/or sortalcoreference.
With respect to coreference types ac-cording to relation, FlySlip is the only corpus withannotations for indirect coreference.MEDCo-B, FlySlip and CRAFT are three exist-ing corpora which are comprised of full-text arti-cles.
Among them, only FlySlip is currently publiclyavailable.The corpus that we have developed, which we callthe HANAPIN corpus, is also intended for publicrelease in the near future and covers five generalsemantic types.
In the annotation scheme whichwas designed and used in HANAPIN, two addi-tional coreference types were considered: abbrevi-ations and numerical coreferences which are com-monly used in chemistry research literature.
Thesecoreference types and the annotation scheme are fur-ther described in the succeeding section.3 Methodology3.1 Composition of Corpus DocumentsTaking into consideration that the corpus shouldconsist of full-text articles which can be distributedto the public, we gathered full-text articles from thejournal Marine Drugs4 which is under the PubMedCentral Open Access subset5.
The said journal cov-ers subject areas such as marine natural products,medicine analysis, marine pharmacology, pharma-ceutical biology, marine drugs development and ma-rine biotechnology, among many others.
From allof its articles from 2003 to 2009, we randomly se-lected twenty (20) which seemed to be a reason-able size considering that only five months were al-located for the annotation of the corpus, and thata previous study on biomedical corpora (Cohen etal., 2005) has shown that a corpus can possibly bewidely used despite its small size.
The experimen-tal sections of the articles were not annotated asthey contain very detailed descriptions of the meth-ods carried out by the authors; according to a study(Shah et al, 2003), these usually contain technicaldata, instruments and measurements ?
types of in-formation which are currently not of much interestto researchers doing biomedical information extrac-tion, although they may be in the future.
The corpuscontains a total of 1,027 sentences or 27, 358 words.3.2 Coreference TypesThe coreferences observed in the corpus were cat-egorised into four general nominal types: pronom-inal, sortal, numerical and abbreviation.
Table 2presents the subtypes of sortal and pronominalcoreference, as well as examples for all types.
We4http://www.mdpi.com/journal/marinedrugs5http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/about/openftlist.html86Table 2: Coreference Types with ExamplesGeneral Coreference Type Subtype Examplespronominaldemonstrative this, that, these, thosepersonal it, they, its, their, theirsindefinite another, few, other, some, all, anydistributive both, such, each, either, neitherrelative which, that, whosesortaldefinite the loihichelinsindefinite an alkaloid, a mycalamidedemonstrative this metabolite, these compoundsdistributive both compoundspredicate nominative ?Galactans are polysaccharides...?appositive ?Radiosumin, an N-methyl dipeptide...?numericalN.A.
?The structures of 1 and 2...?
?Compounds 1-3 inhibit...?abbreviationN.A.
?...as a membrane type 1 matrixmetalloproteinase (MT1-MMP) inhibitor.Compound 1 inhibited MT1-MMP with...?have decided not to take into account verbal and in-direct coreferences; only nominal and direct coref-erences have been considered for the first release ofthe corpus.3.2.1 Pronominal CoreferenceThis type of coreference is characterised by a pro-noun referring to a noun phrase.
The pronoun is usedas a substitute to a noun.
We have further identifiedthe following subtypes of pronominal coreference:demonstrative, personal, indefinite, distributive andrelative.3.2.2 Sortal CoreferenceAlso referred to as lexical noun phrase corefer-ence, sortal coreference is characterised by a nounphrase consisting of a head noun and its modifiers.The subtypes of sortal coreference which have beenidentified include: definite, indefinite, demonstra-tive, distributive, predicate nominative and apposi-tive.3.2.3 Numerical CoreferenceIn chemistry research literature, a number is con-ventionally used to refer to a chemical entity whichwas introduced using the same number.
Oftentimes,a range of numbers is also used to refer to a numberof compounds previously mentioned.3.2.4 AbbreviationIn annotating the HANAPIN corpus, abbrevia-tions were also considered as co-referring expres-sions.
We distinguish them from the other corefer-ence types to make the corpus of benefit to develop-ers of abbreviation identification algorithms as well.3.3 Annotation Scheme and ProcedureThe annotation scheme used in MEDCo (which wasbased on MUCCS) was adapted and modified forthe annotation of the HANAPIN corpus.
We haveselected the MEDCo scheme as it already differen-tiates between the pronominal and identity (equiva-lent to sortal) types, whereas MUCCS has only theidentity type.
There was a need, however, to extendthe MEDCo scheme to further specialise the corefer-ence types.
The XML Concordancer (XConc) tool6was used in annotating the corpus.
Configuring thesaid tool for our needs is straightforward as it onlyinvolved the customisation of a Document Type Def-inition (DTD) file.3.3.1 Term AnnotationsAs a preliminary step, the scheme required thatall terms which can be categorised into any of the6http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA/home/wiki.cgi?page=XConc+Suite87Figure 1: Sample annotations as shown in the XConc annotation tool.
The sentences in this example come from oneof the documents in the HANAPIN corpus, the Marine Drugs article with PubMed ID 19841723.
For illustrativepurposes, the first sentence in the example was slightly modified to demonstrate the use of the cons element.following semantic types be annotated:1. chemical compound2.
organism3.
drug effect4.
disease5.
drug target (further categorised into: protein,enzyme, nucleic acid, tissue, cell, cell compo-nent, cell line, pathogen)For each markable, the annotator creates a termelement which is assigned an ID and one of the se-mantic types above.
The scheme supports the anno-tation of embedded terms, as well as terms in a dis-continuous text region.
The former entails placinga term element within another.
The latter is doneby dividing the discontinuous text into fragmentsand annotating each fragment in the same manneras an ordinary term element.
The fragment elementsare then grouped together as a constituent element(cons).
Figure 1 presents a sample annotation ofa discontinuous term (constituent C5) as viewed inXConc.3.3.2 Co-referring ExpressionsAn annotator proceeds to the annotation of co-referring expressions after annotating all termswithin a document.
If an expression was found tobe co-referring with another term, the annotator as-signs the ID of the latter as the value of the idrefattribute of the former.
If the referring expression,however, is a noun phrase and not a term that waspreviously annotated during term annotation, it ismarked as a ref element and then linked to its ref-erent.
Annotators delimit these expressions by in-cluding the necessary modifiers of the co-referringelement (e.g., the new jaspamide derivatives insteadof just jaspamide derivatives).
A coreference typewhich could be any of pronominal, numerical, ab-breviation, and sortal (further categorised into def-inite, indefinite, demonstrative, distributive, predi-cate nominative and appositive) is also assigned asthe value of the type attribute of each link created.We decided not to further divide pronominal coref-erence into its subtypes as it became apparent dur-ing the annotation dry runs that there is only a hand-ful of pronominal coreferences.
Figure 1 shows co-referring expressions (connected by arrows) linkedby the mechanism just described.Listed below are some of the main points of theannotation guidelines:1.
A referring expression may be linked to multi-ple referents.2.
The more specific one between two co-referring expressions is considered as the ref-erent.
This means that there might be caseswhen the referent occurs later than the refer-ring expression.
For example, R30:the newnatural products is the co-referring ex-pression and C5:jaspamide Q and R isthe referent in Figure 1.3.
In cases where there are multiple choices forthe referent of a referring expression, the clos-est one may be chosen as long as it is (or willbe) linked to the other choice expressions.4.
There are cases when more than one type ofcoreference applies.
For example, in Figure 1,the new natural products is both an appositiveand a definite noun phrase.
In such cases, theappositive and predicate nominative types takeprecedence over the other sortal types.88Figure 2: XML code generated by XConc for the sample annotations in Figure 1.One could process the XML code (provided inFigure 2 for the reader?s reference) to obtain the fol-lowing coreference chains:1.
{R30:the new natural products,C5:jaspamide Q and R, R10:thenew jaspamide derivatives,R11:which, R12:both}2.
{T66:jaspamide Q, R34:2}3.
{T67:jaspamide R, R35:3}4.
{T70:jaspamide, R36:1}The complete annotation guidelines will be pub-licly released together with the annotated corpus.4 ResultsThe three annotators were asked to complete thecoreference annotations within five months.
A bi-weekly meeting was held to address questions andissues which could not be addressed or resolved bymeans of the online project forum.4.1 StatisticsAs the HANAPIN corpus is the first of its kind fromthe biochemistry domain and aims to cover severalsemantic as well as coreference types, it is of interestto determine which of the types are most prevalent.To do this we computed statistics over the annota-tions (Figure 3).
For each type, we obtained the av-erage over the annotations from the three coders.There is a total of 395 coreference chains (notincluding singleton chains or those with only onemention) in the entire corpus.
The coreferencechains are of the following semantic types: chemicalcompounds (70.89%), drug targets (12.66% that ac-counts for proteins, cell lines, pathogens, enzymes,cells, cell parts, nucleic acids and tissues), organ-isms (9.87%), drug effects (3.29%), and diseases(3.29%).
Among the drug targets, the most preva-lent are proteins, cell lines and pathogens.A total of 760 coreference links have been foundin the corpus.
The most common among the typesis the numerical one (46%), followed by the sortaltype (33% that accounts for the definite, indefinite,demonstrative, appositive, predicate nominative anddistributive types).
Less common are the pronomi-nal type (11%) and abbreviation (10%).
Among thesortal coreferences, the most common are the def-inite and indefinite types, followed by the demon-strative type.89Sheet5Page 1280drug target (50) 50organism (39) 39drug effect (13) 13disease (13) 13395numerical (352) 352pronominal (83) 83abbreviation (74) 74definite (64) 64indefinite (58) 58demonstrative (42) 42appositive (31) 31pred.
nom.
(28) 28distributive (28) 28760chem (280)Semantic Typeschem (280)drug target(50)organism (39)drug effect(13)disease (13)Coreference Typesnumerical(352)pronominal(83)abbreviation(74)definite (64)indefinite (58)demonstrative(42)appositive(31)pred.
nom.
(28)distributive(28)Figure 3: Distribution of semantic and coreference types in the HANAPIN corpus.4.2 Corpus ReliabilityFollowing Passoneau?s proposed method for com-puting reliability for coreference annotation (Pas-soneau, 2004), we computed for the reliability ofthe corpus in terms of Krippendorff?s alpha, a co-efficient of agreement that allows for partial dis-agreement with the use of a distance metric basedon the similarity between coreference chains.
Pas-soneau?s first proposed distance metric (dP ) assigns0 for identity, 0.33 for subsumption, 0.67 for inter-section and 1 for disjunction.
There are, however,alternative distance metrics that consider the sizesof the coreference chains, such as Jaccard?s coeffi-cient of community (dJ ) and Dice?s coincidence in-dex (dD) which can be computed as follows (Art-stein and Peosio, 2004):dJ = 1?|A ?B||A ?B|dD = 1?2|A ?B||A|+ |B|A new distance metric called Measuring Agree-ment on Set-valued Items (MASI) was then laterproposed by Passoneau.
It is obtained by getting theproduct of the original distance metric dP and Jac-card?s coefficient dJ .Initially using Passoneau?s first proposed distancemetric dP in computing for Krippendorff?s alpha,we obtained an average of 75% over all documentsin the HANAPIN corpus.
Computing for alpha us-ing the MASI distance metric gives 84%.
Thoughthere is no value of alpha that has been establishedto be an absolute indication of high agreement, pre-vious works cited by Krippendorff have shown thatvalues of alpha less than 67% indicate unreliability(Krippendorff, 1980).
We can therefore regard theobtained values of alpha as satisfactory.5 Conclusion and Future WorkA coreference-annotated corpus from the domainof biochemistry, consisting of full-text articles, hasbeen developed.
It was annotated following guide-lines which covered coreference and semantic typesthat have not been covered in other biomedical cor-pora before.
This was done to further the aim of pro-viding researchers with more insight into the phe-nomenon of coreference in a cross-disciplinary do-main.
Results show that in this biochemistry do-main, the most common types of coreference beingused by authors are the numerical and sortal types.Verbal and indirect coreferences, however, have notbeen considered at this stage; the annotation of thesetypes can be explored as part of future work on thecorpus.To measure reliability of the corpus, we deter-mined inter-annotator agreement on all documentsby computing for the value of Krippendorff?s al-pha.
Using Passoneau?s first proposed distance met-ric and the MASI distance metric, we obtained sat-isfactory values of 75% and 84%, respectively.
Thecorpus and annotation guidelines will be released tothe public to encourage and enable more researchersto develop improved biomedical coreference resolu-90tion methodologies.AcknowledgementsThe UK National Centre for Text Mining is fundedby the UK Joint Information Systems Committee(JISC).
The authors would also like to acknowledgethe Office of the Chancellor, in collaboration withthe Office of the Vice-Chancellor for Research andDevelopment, of the University of the PhilippinesDiliman for funding support through the OutrightResearch Grant.The authors also thank Paul Thompson for hisfeedback on the annotation guidelines, and theanonymous reviewers for their helpful comments.ReferencesRon Artstein and Massimo Poesio.
2004.
Inter-CoderAgreement for Computational Linguistics.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 34(4):555-596.Jose?
Castan?o, Jason Zhang and James Pustejovsky.
2002.Anaphora resolution in biomedical literature.
Pro-ceedings of the International Symposium on ReferenceResolution for NLP.K.
Bretonnel Cohen, Philip V. Ogren, Lynne Fox andLawrence E. Hunter.
2005.
Empirical data on corpusdesign and usage in biomedical natural language pro-cessing.
AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings, pages156-160.K.
Bretonnel Cohen, Helen L. Johnson, Karin Verspoor,Christophe Roeder, Lawrence E. Hunter.
2010.
Thestructural and content aspects of abstracts versus bod-ies of full text journal articles are different.
BMCBioinformatics, 11(1):492.K.
Bretonnel Cohen, Arrick Lanfranchi, William Cor-vey, William A. Baumgartner Jr., Christophe Roeder,Philip V. Ogren, Martha Palmer and Lawrence E.Hunter.
2010.
Annotation of all coreference inbiomedical text: Guideline selection and adaptation.Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Buildingand Evaluating Resources for Biomedical Text Mining(BioTxtM 2010), LREC 2010.Caroline Gasperin, Nikiforos Karamanis and Ruth Seal.2007.
Annotation of anaphoric relations in biomedicalfull-text articles using a domain-relevant scheme.
Pro-ceedings of the 6th Discourse Anaphora and AnaphorResolution Colloquium (DAARC 2007).Ralph Grishman and Beth Sundheim.
1995.
Design ofthe MUC-6 Evaluation.
MUC ?95: Proceedings of the6th Message Understanding Conference, pages 1-11.Lynette Hirschman.
1997.
MUC-7 Coreference TaskDefinition.
Message Understanding Conference 7Proceedings.Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin.
2009.
Speechand Language Processing: An Introduction to Natu-ral Language Processing, Computational Linguistics,and Speech Recognition.
Prentice-Hall, 2nd edition.Klaus H. Krippendorff.
1980.
Content Analysis: AnIntroduction to Its Methodology.
Beverly Hills, CA:Sage Publications.Tara McIntosh and James R.Curran.
2009.
Chal-lenges for automatically extracting molecular inter-actions from full-text articles.
BMC Bioinformatics,10(1):311.Ruslan Mitkov, Richard Evans, Constantin Orasan,Catalina Barbu, Lisa Jones and Violeta Sotirova.
2005.Coreference and anaphora: developing annotatingtools, annotated resources and annotation strategies.Proceedings of the Discourse Anaphora and AnaphoraResolution Colloquium (DAARC 2000), pages 49-58.Rebecca J. Passoneau.
2004.
Computing reliability forcoreference annotation.
Proceedings of the Interna-tional Conference on Language Resouces (LREC).M.
Schumie, M. Weeber, B. Schijvenaars, E. van Mul-ligen, C. van der Eijk, R. Jelier, B. Mons and J.Kors.
2004.
Distribution of information in biomedi-cal abstracts and full-text publications.
Bioinformat-ics, 20(16):2597-2604.Isabel Segura-Bedmar, Mario Crespo, Ce?sar de Pablo-Sa?nchez and Paloma Mart??nez.
2009.
Resolvinganaphoras for the extraction of drug- drug interactionsin pharmacological documents.
BMC Bioinformatics,11(Suppl 2):S1.Parantu K. Shah, Carolina Perez-Iratxeta, Peer Bork andMiguel A. Andrade.
2003.
Information extractionfrom full text scientific articles: Where are the key-words?
BMC Bioinformatics, 4(1): 20.91
