Proceedings of BioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop, pages 65?73,Portland, Oregon, USA, 24 June, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsBioNLP Shared Task 2011 ?
Bacteria Gene Interactions and RenamingJulien Jourde1, Alain-Pierre Manine2, Philippe Veber1, Kare?n Fort3, Robert Bossy1,Erick Alphonse2, Philippe Bessie`res11Mathe?matique, Informatique et 2PredictiveDB 3LIPN ?
Universite?
Paris-Nord/Ge?nome ?
Institut National de la 16, rue Alexandre Parodi CNRS UMR7030 andRecherche Agronomique F75010 Paris, France INIST CNRS UPS76 ?
F54514MIG INRA UR1077 {apmanine,alphonse} Vand?uvre-le`s-Nancy, FranceF78352 Jouy-en-Josas, France @predictivedb.com karen.fort@inist.frforename.lastname@jouy.inra.frAbstractWe present two related tasks of the BioNLPShared Tasks 2011: Bacteria Gene Renam-ing (Rename) and Bacteria Gene Interactions(GI).
We detail the objectives, the corpus spec-ification, the evaluation metrics, and we sum-marize the participants?
results.
Both issuedfrom PubMed scientific literature abstracts,the Rename task aims at extracting gene namesynonyms, and the GI task aims at extractinggenic interaction events, mainly about genetranscriptional regulations in bacteria.1 IntroductionThe extraction of biological events from scientificliterature is the most popular task in Information Ex-traction (IE) challenges applied to molecular biol-ogy, such as in LLL (Ne?dellec, 2005), BioCreativeProtein-Protein Interaction Task (Krallinger et al,2008), or BioNLP (Demner-Fushman et al, 2008).Since the BioNLP 2009 shared task (Kim et al,2009), this field has evolved from the extraction of aunique binary interaction relation between proteinsand/or genes towards a broader acceptation of bio-logical events including localization and transforma-tion (Kim et al, 2008).
In the same way, the tasksBacteria Gene Interactions and Bacteria Gene Re-naming deal with the extraction of various molecu-lar events capturing the mechanisms relevant to generegulation in prokaryotes.
The study of bacteria hasnumerous applications for health, food and indus-try, and overall, they are considered as organismsof choice for the recent integrative approaches insystems biology, because of their relative simplicity.Compared to eukaryotes, they allow easier and morein-depth analysis of biological functions and of theirrelated molecular mechanisms.Processing literature on bacteria raises linguis-tic and semantic specificities that impact text anal-ysis.
First of all, gene renaming is a frequent phe-nomenon, especially for model bacteria.
Hence, theabundance of gene synonyms that are not morpho-logical variants is high compared to eukaryotes.
Thehistory of bacterial gene naming has led to drasticamounts of homonyms and synonyms which are of-ten missing (or worse, erroneous) in gene databases.In particular, they often omit old gene names thatare no longer used in new publications, but that arecritical for exhaustive bibliography search.
Poly-semy makes the situation even worse, as old namesfrequently happen to be reused to denote differentgenes.
A correct and complete gene synonym tableis crucial to biology studies, for instance when inte-grating large scale experimental data using distinctnomenclatures.
Indeed this information can save alot of bibliographic research time.
The Rename Taskis a new task in text-mining for biology that aims atextracting explicit mentions of renaming relations.It is a critical step in gene name normalization thatis needed for further extraction of biological eventssuch as genic interactions.Regarding stylistics, gene and protein interactionsare not formulated in the same way for eukary-otes and prokaryotes.
Descriptions of interactionsand regulations in bacteria include more knowledgeabout their molecular actors and mechanisms, com-pared to the literature on eukaryotes.
Typically inbacteria literature, the genic regulations are more65likely expressed by direct binding of the protein,while in eukaryote literature, non-genic agents re-lated to environmental conditions are much morefrequent.
The bacteria GI Task is based on (Manineet al, 2010) which is a semantic re-annotation of theLLL challenge corpus (Ne?dellec, 2005), where thedescription of the GI events in a fine-grained rep-resentation includes the distinction between expres-sion, transcription and other action events, as well asdifferent transcription controls (e.g.
regulon mem-bership, promoter binding).
The entities are not onlyprotein agent and gene target but extend to families,complexes and DNA sites (binding sites, promoters)in order to better capture the complexity of the reg-ulation at a molecular level.
The task consists in re-lating the entities with the relevant relations.2 Rename Task DescriptionThe goal of the Rename task is illustrated by Figure1.
It consists in predicting renaming relations be-tween text-bound gene names given as input.
Theonly type of event is Renaming where both argu-ments are of type Gene.
The event is directed, theformer and the new names are distinguished.
Genesand proteins were not distinguished because of thehigh frequency of metonymy in renaming events.The relation to predict between genes is a Renam-ing of a former gene name into a new one.
In theexample of Figure 1, YtaA, YvdP and YnzH are theformer names of three proteins renamed CotI, CotQand CotU, respectively.Figure 1: Examples of relations to be extracted.2.1 Rename Task corpusThe Rename Task corpus is a set of 1,836 PubMedreferences of bacterial genetic and genomic studies,including title and abstract.
A first set of 23,000 doc-uments was retrieved, identifying the presence of thebacterium Bacillus subtilis in the text and/or in theMeSH terms.
B. subtilis documents are particularlyrich in renaming mentions.
Many genes were re-named in the middle of the nineties, so that the newnames matched those of the Escherichia coli homo-logues.
The 1,843 documents the most susceptibleto mention renaming were automatically filtered ac-cording to two non exclusive criteria:1.
Either the document mentions at least two genesynonyms as recorded in the fusion of seven B.subtilis gene nomenclatures.
This led to a setof 703 documents.2.
Or the document contains a renaming expres-sion from a list that we manually designed andtested (e.g.
rename, also known as).
It is an ex-tension of a previous work by (Weissenbacher,2004).
A total of 1,140 new documents not in-cluded in the first set match this criteria.About 70% of the documents (1,146) were kept inthe training data set.
The rest was split into the de-velopment and test sets, containing 246 and 252 doc-uments respectively.
Table 1 gives the distributionof genes and renaming relations per corpus.
Genenames were automatically annotated in the docu-ments with the nomenclature of B. subtilis.
Genenames involved in renaming acts were manually cu-rated.
Among the 21,878 gene mentions in the threecorpus, 680 unique names are involved in renamingrelations which represents 891 occurrences of genes.Training + Dev.
TestDocuments (1,146 + 246) 1,392 252 (15%)Gene names 18,503 3,375 (15%)Renamings 373 88 (24%)Table 1: Rename Task corpus content.2.2 Rename Task annotation and guidelinesAnnotation procedure The corpus was annotatedin a joint effort of MIG/INRA and INIST/CNRS.The reference annotation of the Rename Task cor-pus was done in two steps, a first annotation stepby science information professionals of INIST withMIG initial specifications, a second checking step bypeople at MIG.
Two annotators and a project man-ager were in charge of the task at INIST.
The docu-ments were annotated using the Cadixe editor1.
We1http://caderige.imag.fr/Articles/CADIXEXML-Annotation.pdf66provided to them detailed annotation guidelines thatwere largely modified in the process.
A subset of100 documents from the first set of 703 was anno-tated as a training session.
This step was used to re-fine the guidelines according to the methodology de-scribed in (Bonneau-Maynard et al, 2005).
Severalinter-annotator agreements coefficients were com-puted to measure the discrepancy between annota-tors (Fort et al, 2009).
With a kappa and pi scores(for more details on those, see (Artstein and Poesio,2008)), the results can be considered satisfactory.The manual analysis of the 18 discrepancies led toenrich the annotation guidelines.
The first hundredsof documents of the second set did not mention anyrenaming, leading to concentrate the annotation ef-forts on the first set.
These documents actually con-tained renamings, but nearly exclusively concerningother kinds of biological entities (protein domains,molecules, cellular ultrastructures, etc.
).Guidelines In order to simplify the task, onlyshort names of gene/protein/groups in B. subtiliswere considered.
Naming conventions set shortnames of four letters long with an upper case let-ter at the end for all genes (e.g.
gerE) and the samenames with the upper case of the initial letter (e.g.GerE) and long names for the proteins (e.g.
Sporegermination protein gerE).
But many irregular genenames exist (e.g.
tuf), which are considered as well.It also happens that gene or protein name lists areabbreviated by factorization to form a sequence.
Forinstance queCDEF is the abbreviation of the list ofgene names queC, queD, queE and queF.
Such ag-gregations are acceptable gene names as well.
In anycase, these details were not needed by the task par-ticipants since the corpus was provided with taggedgene names.Most renaming relations involve couples of thesame type, genes, proteins or aggregations.
Only18 relations link mixed couples of genes and pro-teins.
In case of ambiguity, annotators would consultinternational gene databases and an internal INRAdatabase to help them determine whether a givencouple of names were actually synonyms.Multiple occurrences of the same renaming rela-tion were annotated independently, and had to bepredicted.
The renaming pairs are directed, the for-mer and the new forms have to be distinguished.When the renaming order was not explicit in thedocument, the rule was to annotate by default thefirst member of the couple as the new form, and thesecond one as the former form.
Figure 2 presents themost common forms of renaming.Figure 2: Common types of relations to be extracted.Revised annotations INIST annotations weresystematically checked by two experts in Bioinfor-matics from INRA.
Mainly, encoding relations (e.g.the gene encoding sigma K (sigK)) that are not re-naming cases were purged.
Given the number ofambiguous annotations, we designed a detailed ty-pology in order to justify acceptance or rejectiondecisions in seven different sub-cases hereafter pre-sented.
Three positive relations figure in Table 2,where the underlined names are the former namesand the framed names are the new ones.
Explicit re-naming relations occur in 261 sentences, synonymy-like relations in 349 sentences, biological proof-based relations in 76 sentences.Explicit renaming relation is the easiest positivecase to identify.
In the example, the aggregation ofgene names ykvJKLM is clearly renamed by the au-thors as queCDEF.
Although the four genes are con-Explicit renamingPMID 15767583 : Genetic analysis of ykvJKLM mu-tants in Acinetobacter confirmed that each was essen-tial for queuosine biosynthesis, and the genes were re-named queCDEF .Implicit renamingPMID 8002615 : Analysis of a suppressor mutationssb ( kinC ) of sur0B20 (spo0A) mutation in Bacil-lus subtilis reveals that kinC encodes a histidine pro-tein kinase.Biological proofPMID 1744050 : DNA sequencing established thatspoIIIF and spoVB are a single monocistronic locusencoding a 518-amino-acid polypeptide with featuresof an integral membrane protein.Table 2: Positive examples of the Rename Task.67catenated, there is no evidence mentioned of themacting as an operon.
Furthermore, despite the con-text involving mutants of Acinetobacter, the aggre-gation belongs correctly to B. subtilis.Implicit renaming is an asymmetric relationsince one of the synonyms is intended to replace theother one in future uses.
The example presents tworenaming relations between former names ssb andspo0A, and new names kinC and sur0B20, respec-tively.
The renaming relation between ssb and kinChas a different orientation due to additional informa-tion in the reference.
Like in the preceding example,the renaming is a consequence of a genetic mutationexperiment.
Mutation names represent an importanttransversal issue that is discussed below.Biological proof is a renaming relation inducedby an explicit scientific conclusion while the renam-ing is not, as in the example where experiments re-veal that two loci spoIIIF and spoVB are in fact thesame one and then become synonyms.
Terms suchas ?allelic to?
or ?identical to?
usually qualify suchconclusions.
Predicting biological proof-based rela-tions requires some biological modeling.The next three cases are negative (Table 3).
Un-derlined gene and protein names are involved in arelation which is not a renaming relation.Protein encoding relation occurs between a geneand the protein it codes for.
Some mentions maylook like renaming relations.
The example presentsthe gene yeaC coding for MoxR.
No member of thecouple is expected to replace the other one.Homology measures the similarity between geneor protein sequences.
Most of the homology men-tions involve genes or proteins from different speciesProtein encodingPMID 8969499: The putative products of ORFs yeaB(Czd protein), yeaC (MoxR), yebA (CNG-channel andcGMP-channel proteins from eukaryotes),Genetic homologyPMID 10619015 : Dynamic movement of the ParA-like Soj protein of B. subtilis and its dual role in nu-cleoid organization and developmental regulation.Operon | Regulon | FamilyPMID 3127379 : Three promoters direct transcriptionof the sigA (rpoD) operon in Bacillus subtilis.Table 3: Negative examples of the Rename Task.(orthologues).
The others compare known gene orprotein sequences of the same species (paralogues).This may be misleading since the similarity men-tion may look like biological proof-based relations,as between ParA and Soj in Table 3.Operon, regulon or family renaming involvesobjects that may look like genes, proteins or sim-ple aggregations of gene or protein names but thatare perceptibly different.
The objects represent morethan one gene or protein and the renaming does notnecessarily affect all of them.
More problematic,their name may be the same as one of the genes orproteins they contain, as in the example where sigAand rpoD are operons but are also known as genenames.
Here, sigA (and so rpoD) represents at leasttwo different genes.
For the sake of clarity, oper-ons, regulons and families are rejected, even if allthe genes are clearly named, as in an aggregation.The last point concerns mutation which are fre-quent in Microbiology for revealing gene pheno-types.
They carry information about the originalgene names (e.g., rvtA11 is a mutant name createdby adding 11 to rvtA).
But partial names cannot bepartially annotated, that is to say, the original part(rvtA) should not be annotated in the mutation name(rvtA11).
Most of these names are local names, andshould not be annotated because of their restrictedscope.
It may happen so that the mutation nameis registered as a synonym in several internationaldatabases.
To avoid inconsistencies, all renamingsinvolving a mutation referenced in a database wereaccepted, and only biological proof-based and ex-plicit renamings involving a strict non-null unrefer-enced mutation (a null mutation corresponds to a to-tal suppression of a gene) were accepted.2.3 Rename Task evaluation procedureThe evaluation of the Rename task is given in termsof recall, precision and F-score of renaming rela-tions.
Two set of scores are given: the first set iscomputed by enforcing strict direction of renamingrelations, the second set is computed with relaxeddirection.
Since the relaxed score takes into ac-count renaming relations even if the arguments areinverted, it will necessarily be greater or equal thanthe strict score.
The participant score is the relaxedscore, the strict score is given for information.
Re-laxed scores are informative with respect to the ap-68plication goal.
The motivation of the Rename taskis to keep bacteria gene synonyms tables up to date.The choice of the canonical name among synonymsfor denoting a gene is done by the bacteriology com-munity, and it may be independent of the anteriorityor novelty of the name.
The annotation of the ref-erence corpus showed that the direction was not al-ways decidable, even for a human reader.
Thus, itwould have been unfair to evaluate systems on thebasis of unsure information.2.4 Results of the Rename Task participantsFinal submissions were received from three teams,the University of Turku (Uturku), the University ofConcordia (Concordia) and the Bibliome team fromMIG/INRA.
Their results are summarized in Table4.
The ranking order is given by the overall F-scorefor relations with relaxed argument order.Team Prec.
Recall F-scoreUniv.
of Turku 95.9 79.6 87.0Concordia Univ.
74.4 65.9 69.9INRA 57.0 73.9 64.4Table 4: Participant scores at the Rename Task.Uturku achieved the best F-score with a very highprecision and a high recall.
Concordia achieved thesecond F-score with balanced precisions and recalls.Bibliome is five points behind with a better recallbut much lower precision.
Both UTurku and Con-cordia predictions rely on dependencies (Charniak-Johnson and Stanford respectively, using McCloskymodel), whereas Bibliome predictions rely on bag ofwords.
This demonstrates the high value of depen-dency parsing for this task, in particular for the pre-cision of predictions.
We notice that UTurku systemuses machine learning (SVM) and Concordia usesrules based on trigger words.
The good results ofUTurku confirms the hypothesis that gene renam-ing citations are highly regular in scientific litera-ture.
The most frequently missed renamings belongto the Biological Proof category (see Table 2).
Thisis expected because the renaming is formulated as areasoning where the conclusion is only implicit.2.5 DiscussionThe very high score of Uturku method leads us toconclude that the task can be considered as solvedby a linguistic-based approach.
Whereas Bib-liome used an extensive nomenclature consideredas exhaustive and sentence filtering using a SVM,Uturku used only two nomenclatures in synergy butwith more sophisticated linguistic-based methods,in particular syntactic analyses.
Bibliome methodsshowed that a too high dependence to nomenclaturesmay decrease scores if they contain compromiseddata.
However, the use of an extensive nomencla-ture as done by Bibliome may complement Uturkuapproach and improve recall.
It is also interestingthat both systems do not manage renamings cross-ing sentence boundaries.The good results of the renaming task will be ex-ploited to keep synonym gene lists up to date withextensive bibliography mining.
In particular thiswill contribute to enriching SubtiWiki, a collabora-tive annotation effort on B. subtilis (Flo?rez et al,2009; Lammers et al, 2010).3 Gene Interactions Task descriptionThe goal of the Bacteria GI Task is illustrated byFigure 3.
The genes cotB and cotC are related totheir two promoters, not named here, by the rela-tion PromoterOf.
The protein GerE is related tothese promoters by the relation BindTo.
As a con-sequence, GerE is related to cotB and cotC by an In-teraction relation.
According to (Kim et al, 2008),the need to define specialized relations replacing oneunique and general interaction relation was raised in(Manine et al, 2009) for extracting genic interac-tions from text.
An ontology describes relations andentities (Manine et al, 2008) catching a model ofgene transcription to which biologists implicitly re-fer in their publications.
Therefore, the ontology ismainly oriented towards the description of a struc-tural model of genes, with molecular mechanismsof their transcription and associated regulations.The corpus roughly contains three kinds of genicFigure 3: Examples of relations to be extracted.69interaction mentions, namely regulations, regulonmembership and binding.
The first case correspondsto interactions the mechanism of which is not explic-itly given in the text.
The mention only tells that thetranscription of a given gene is influenced by a givenprotein, either positively (activation), negatively (in-hibition) or in an unspecified way.
The second kindof genic interaction mention (regulon membership)basically conveys the same information, using theregulon term/concept.
The regulon of a gene is theset of genes that it controls.
In that case, the interac-tion is expressed by saying that a gene is a memberof some regulon.
The third and last kind of mentionprovides with more mechanistic details on a regula-tion, since it describes the binding of a protein nearthe promoter of a target gene.
This motivates the in-troduction of Promoter and Site entities, which cor-respond to DNA regions.
It is thus possible to extractthe architecture of a regulatory DNA region, linkinga protein agent to its gene target (see Figure 3).The set of entity types is divided into two maingroups, namely 10 genic entities and 3 kinds of ac-tion (Table 5).
Genic entities represent biologicalobjects like a gene, a group of genes or a gene prod-uct.
In particular, a GeneComplex annotation corre-sponds to an operon, which is a group of genes thatare contiguous in the genome and under the controlof the same promoter.
The annotation GeneFamilyis used to denote either genes involved in the samebiological function or genes with sequence homolo-gies.
More importantly, PolymeraseComplex anno-tations correspond to the protein complex that is re-sponsible for the transcription of genes.
This com-plex includes several subunits (components), com-bined with a sigma factor, that recognizes specificpromoters on the DNA sequence.The second group of entities are phrases express-ing either molecular processes (e.g.
sequestration,dephosphorylation, etc.)
or the molecular state ofthe bacteria (e.g.
presence, activity or level of a pro-tein).
They represent some kind of action that canbe performed on a genic entity.
Note that transcrip-tion and expression events were tagged as specificactions, because they play a specific part in certainrelations (see below).The annotation of entities and actions was pro-vided to the participants, and the task consisted inextracting the relations listed in Table 6.Name ExampleGene cotAGeneComplex sigX-ypuNGeneFamily class III heat shock genesGeneProduct yvyD gene productProtein CotAPolymeraseComplex SigK RNA polymeraseProteinFamily DNA-binding proteinSite upstream sitePromoter promoter regionsRegulon regulonAction activity | level | presenceExpression expressionTranscription transcriptionTable 5: List of molecular entities and actions in GI.Name ExampleActionTarget expression of yvyDInteraction ComK negatively regulatesdegR expressionRegulonDependence sigmaB regulonRegulonMember yvyD is member of sigmaBregulonBindTo GerE adheres to the pro-moterSiteOf -35 sequence of the pro-moterPromoterOf the araE promoterPromoterDependence GerE-controlled promoterTranscriptionFrom transcription from the up-stream siteTranscriptionBy transcription of cotD bysigmaK RNA polymeraseTable 6: List of relations in GI.The relations are binary and directed, and rely theentities defined above.
The three kinds of interac-tions are represented with an Interaction annotation,linking an agent to its target.
The other relationsprovide additional details on the regulation, like ele-mentary components involved in the reaction (sites,promoters) and contextual information (mainly pro-vided by the ActionTarget relations).
A formal def-inition of relations and relation argument types canbe found on the Bacteria GI Task Web page.3.1 Bacteria Gene Interactions corpusThe source of the Bacteria GI Task corpus is a setof PubMed abstracts mainly dealing with the tran-70scription of genes in Bacillus subtilis.
The semanticannotation, derived from the ontology of (Manine etal., 2008), contains 10 molecular entities, 3 differentactions, and 10 specialized relations.
This is appliedto 162 sentences from the LLL set (Ne?dellec, 2005),which are provided with manually checked linguis-tic annotations (segmentation, lemmatization, syn-tactic dependencies).
The corpus was split into 105sentences for training, 15 for development and 42for test.
Table 7 gives the distribution of the entitiesand actions per corpus and Table 8 gives the distri-bution of the relations per corpus.3.2 Annotation procedures and guidelinesThe semantic annotation scheme was developed bytwo annotators through a series of independent an-notations of the corpus, followed by reconciliationsteps, which could involve concerted modifications(Manine et al, 2010).
As a third and final stage, theEntity or action Train.
+ Dev.
TestDocuments (105+15) 120 42Protein 219 85Gene 173 56Transcription 53 21Promoter 49 10Action 45 22PolymeraseComplex 43 14Expression 29 6Site 22 8GeneComplex 19 4ProteinFamily 12 3Regulon 11 2GeneProduct 10 3GeneFamily 6 5Table 7: Distribution of entities and actions in GI.Relation Train.
+ Dev.
TestInteraction 208 64ActionTarget 173 47PromoterOf 44 8BindTo 39 4PromoterDependence 36 4TranscriptionBy 36 8SiteOf 23 6RegulonMember 17 2TranscriptionFrom 14 2RegulonDependence 12 1Table 8: Distribution of relations in GI.corpus was reviewed and the annotation simplifiedto make it more appropriate to the contest.
The finalannotation contains 748 relations distributed in ninecategories, 146 of them belonging to the test set.The annotation scheme was generally well suitedto accurately represent the meaning of the sentencesin the corpus, with one notable exception.
In the cor-pus, there is a common phrasing telling that a pro-tein P regulates the transcription of a gene G by agiven sigma factor S. In that case, the only anno-tated interactions are between the couples (P, G) and(S, G).
This representation is not completely satis-factory, and a ternary relation involving P, S and Gwould have been more adequate.Additional specific rules were needed to copewith linguistic issues.
First, when the argument of arelation had coreferences, the relation was repeatedfor each maximally precise coreference of the argu-ment.
Second, in case of a conjunction like ?sig-maA and sigmaX holoenzymes?, there should ide-ally be two entities (namely ?sigmaA holoenzyme?and ?sigmaX holoenzyme?
); however, this is noteasy to represent using the BioNLP format.
In thissituation, we grouped the two entities into a singleone.
These cases were rare and unlikely affected thefeasibility of the task, since entities were providedin the test set.3.3 Gene Interactions evaluation procedureThe training and development corpora with the ref-erence annotations were made available to partici-pants by December, 1st on the BioNLP shared Taskpages together with evaluation software.
The testcorpus with the entity annotations has been madeavailable by March, 1st.
The participants sent thepredicted annotations to the BioNLP shared Taskorganizers by March, 10th.
The evaluation resultswere computed and provided to the participants andon the Web site the same day.
The participants areevaluated and ranked according to two scores: F-score for all event types together, and F-score forthe Interaction event type.
In order for a predictedevent to count as a hit, both arguments must be thesame as in the reference in the right order and theevent type must be the same as in the reference.713.4 Results of GI Task participantsThere was only one participant, whose results areshown in Tables 9 and 10.
Some relations werenot significantly represented in the test set and thusthe corresponding results should be considered withcaution.
This is the case for RegulonMember andTranscriptionFrom, only represented two times eachin the test.
The lowest recall, 17%, obtained for theSiteOf relation is explained by its low representa-tion in the corpus: most of the test errors come froma difficult sentence with coreferences.The recall of 56% for the Interaction relation cer-tainly illustrates the heterogeneity of this category,gathering mentions of interactions at large, as wellas precise descriptions of gene regulations.
For in-stance, Figure 4 shows a complex instance where allof the interactions were missed.
Surprisingly, wealso found false negatives in rather trivial examples(?ykuD was transcribed by SigK RNA polymerasefrom T4 of sporulation.?).
Uturku used an SVM-based approach for extraction, and it is thus delicateto account for the false negatives in a simple andconcise way.Event U. Turku scoresGlobal Precision 85Global Recall 71Global F-score 77Interaction Precision 75Interaction Recall 56Interaction F-score 64Table 9: University of Turku global scores.Event Prec.
Rec.
F-scoreGlobal 85 71 77ActionTarget 94 92 93BindTo 75 75 75Interaction 75 56 64PromoterDependence 100 100 100PromoterOf 100 100 100RegulonDependence 100 100 100RegulonMember 100 50 67SiteOf 100 17 29TranscriptionBy 67 50 57TranscriptionFrom 100 100 100Table 10: University of Turku scores for each relation.Figure 4: Examples of three missed interactions.3.5 DiscussionThe GI corpus was previously used in a relationextraction work (Manine et al 2009) based on In-ductive Logic Programming (Muggleton and Raedt,1994).
However a direct comparison of the resultsis not appropriate here since the annotations werepartially revised, and the evaluation setting was dif-ferent (leave-one-out in Manine?s work, test set inthe challenge).Nevertheless, we note similar tendencies if wecompare relative results between relations.
In partic-ular, it was also found in Manine?s paper that SiteOf,TranscriptionBy and Interaction are the most diffi-cult relations to extract.
It is also worth to mentionthat both approaches rely on syntactic dependencies,and use the curated dependencies provided in thecorpus.
Interestingly, the approach by the Universityof Turku reports a slightly lower F-measure with de-pendencies calculated by the Charniak parser (about1%, personal communication).
This information isespecially important in order to consider a produc-tion setting.4 ConclusionThe quality of results for both challenges suggeststhat current methods are mature enough to be usedin semi-automatic strategies for genome annotation,where they could efficiently assist biological expertsinvolved in collaborative annotation efforts (Lam-mers et al, 2010).
However, the false positive rate,notably for the Interaction relation, is still too highfor the extraction results to be used as a reliablesource of information without a curation step.AcknowlegmentsWe thank Franc?oise Tisserand and Bernard Talercio(INIST) for their work on the Rename corpus, andthe QUAERO Programme funded by OSEO (Frenchagency for innovation) for its support.72ReferencesArtstein R., Poesio M. (2008).
Inter-coder agreementfor Computational Linguistics.
Computational Lin-guistics, 34(4):555-96.Bjo?rne J., Heimonen J., Ginter F., Airola A., PahikkalaT., Salakoski T. (2009).
Extracting complex biologicalevents with rich graph-based feature sets.
BioNLP?09Proc.
Workshop Current Trends in Biomedical NaturalLanguage Processing: Shared Task, pp.
10-18.Bonneau-Maynard H., Rosset S., Ayache C., Kuhn A.,Mostefa D. (2005).
Semantic annotation of the FrenchMedia Dialog Corpus.
Interspeech-2005, pp.
3457-60.Demner-Fushman D., Ananiadou S., Cohen K.B., PestianJ., Tsujii J., Webber B.
(2008).
Themes in biomedicalnatural language processing: BioNLP08.
BMC Bioin-formatics, 9(Suppl.
11):S1.Flo?rez L.A., Roppel S.F., Schmeisky A.G., LammersC.R., Stu?lke J.
(2009).
A community-curated con-sensual annotation that is continuously updated: TheBacillus subtilis centred wiki SubtiWiki.
Database,2009:bap012.Fort K., Franc?ois C., Ghribi M. (2010).
?Evaluer des an-notations manuelles disperse?es : les coefficients sont-ils suffisants pour estimer l?accord inter-annotateurs ?17e Conf.
Traitement Automatique des Langues Na-turelles (TALN 2010).Kim J.D., Ohta T., Tsujii J.
(2008) Corpus annotation formining biomedical events from literature.
BMC Bioin-formatics, 9:10.Kim J.D., Ohta T., Pyysalo S., Kano Y., Tsujii J.
(2009).Overview of BioNLP?09 shared task on event ex-traction.
BioNLP?09 Proc.
Workshop Current Trendsin Biomedical Natural Language Processing: SharedTask, pp.
1-9.Krallinger M., Leitner F., Rodriguez-Penagos C., Va-lencia A.
(2008).
Overview of the protein-protein in-teraction annotation extraction task of BioCreative II.Genome Biology, 9(Suppl.
2):S4.Lammers C.R., Flo?rez L.A., Schmeisky A.G., RoppelS.F., Ma?der U., Hamoen L., Stu?lke J.
(2010).
Con-necting parts with processes: SubtiWiki and Subti-Pathways integrate gene and pathway annotation forBacillus subtilis.
Microbiology, 156(3):849-59.Manine A.P., Alphonse E., Bessie`res P. (2008).
Informa-tion extraction as an ontology population task and itsapplication to genic interactions.
20th IEEE Int.
Conf.Tools with Artificial Intelligence (ICTAI?08), pp.
74-81.Manine A.P., Alphonse E., Bessie`res P. (2009).
Learn-ing ontological rules to extract multiple relations ofgenic interactions from text.
Int.
J.
Medical Informat-ics, 78(12):e31-8.Manine A.P., Alphonse E., Bessie`res P. (2010).
Extrac-tion of genic interactions with the recursive logical the-ory of an ontology.
Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-ences, 6008:549-63.Muggleton S., Raedt L.D.
(1994) Inductive Logic Pro-gramming: Theory and methods.
J.
Logic Program-ming, 19-20:629-79.Ne?dellec C. (2005).
Learning Language in Logic ?
GenicInteraction Extraction Challenge.
Proc.
4th LearningLanguage in Logic Workshop (LLL?05), pp.
31-7.Weissenbacher, D. (2004).
La relation de synonymie enGe?nomique.
RECITAL 2004 Conference.73
