Proceedings of EMNLP 2011, Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 43?52,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 27?31, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnsupervised Language-Independent Name Translation Mining fromWikipedia InfoboxesWen-Pin Lin, Matthew Snover, Heng JiComputer Science DepartmentQueens College and Graduate CenterCity University of New YorkNew York, NY 11367, USAdanniellin@gmail.com, msnover@qc.cuny.edu, hengji@cs.qc.cuny.eduAbstractThe automatic generation of entity profilesfrom unstructured text, such as KnowledgeBase Population, if applied in a multi-lingualsetting, generates the need to align such pro-files from multiple languages in an unsuper-vised manner.
This paper describes an unsu-pervised and language-independent approachto mine name translation pairs from entity pro-files, using Wikipedia Infoboxes as a stand-infor high quality entity profile extraction.
Pairsare initially found using expressions that arewritten in language-independent forms (suchas dates and numbers), and new translationsare then mined from these pairs.
The algo-rithm then iteratively bootstraps from thesetranslations to learn more pairs and moretranslations.
The algorithm maintains a highprecision, over 95%, for the majority of itsiterations, with a slightly lower precision of85.9% and an f-score of 76%.
A side effectof the name mining algorithm is the unsuper-vised creation of a translation lexicon betweenthe two languages, with an accuracy of 64%.We also duplicate three state-of-the-art nametranslation mining methods and use two ex-isting name translation gazetteers to comparewith our approach.
Comparisons show ourapproach can effectively augment the resultsfrom each of these alternative methods and re-sources.1 IntroductionA shrinking fraction of the world?s web pages arewritten in English, while about 3,000 languages areendangered (Krauss, 2007).
Therefore the abilityto access information across a range of languages,especially low-density languages, is becoming in-creasingly important for many applications.
In thispaper we hypothesize that in order to extend cross-lingual information access to all the language pairson the earth, or at least to some low-density lan-guages which are lacking fundamental linguistic re-sources, we can start from the much more scalabletask of ?information?
translation, or more specifi-cally, new name translation.Wikipedia, as a remarkable and rich online ency-clopedia with a wealth of general knowledge aboutvaried concepts, entities, events and facts in theworld, may be utilized to address this need.
Asof March 2011 Wikipedia contains pages from 275languages1, but statistical machine translation (MT)techniques can only process a small portion of them(e.g.
Google translate can only translate between59 languages).
Wikipedia infoboxes are a highlystructured form of data and are composed of a setof subject-attribute-value triples that summarize orhighlight the key features of the concept or sub-ject of each article.
A large number of instance-centered knowledge-bases that have harvested thisstructured data are available.
The most well-knownare probably DBpedia (Auer et al, 2007), Free-base (Bollacker et al, 2007) and YAGO (Suchaneket al, 2007).
However, almost all of these ex-isting knowledge bases contain only one language.Even for high-density languages, more than 70% ofWikipedia pages and their infobox entries do notcontain cross-lingual links.1http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/List_of_Wikipedias43Recent research into Knowledge Base Population,the automatic generation of profiles for named enti-ties from unstructured text has raised the possibilityof automatic infobox generation in many languages.Cross-lingual links between entities in this settingwould require either expensive multilingual humanannotation or automatic name pairing.
We hypoth-esize that overlaps in information across languagesmight allow automatic pairing of profiles, withoutany preexisting translational capabilities.
Wikipediainfoboxes provide a proxy for these high qualitycross lingual automatically generated profiles uponwhich we can explore this hypothesis.In this paper we propose a simple and general un-supervised approach to discover name translationsfrom knowledge bases in any language pair, usingWikipedia infoboxes as a case study.
Although dif-ferent languages have different writing systems, avast majority of the world?s countries and languagesuse similar forms for representing information suchas time/calendar date, number, website URL andcurrency (IBM, 2010).
In fact most languages com-monly follow the ISO 8601 standard2 so the formatsof time/date are the same or very similar.
Therefore,we take advantage of this language-independent for-matting to design a new and simple bootstrappingbased name pair mining approach.
We start fromlanguage-independent expressions in any two lan-guages, and then extract those infobox entries whichshare the same slot values.
The algorithm itera-tively mines more name pairs by utilizing these pairsand comparing other slot values.
In this unsuper-vised manner we don?t need to start from any nametransliteration module or document-wise temporaldistributions as in previous work.We conduct experiments on English and Chineseas we have bi-lingual annotators available for eval-uating results.
However, our approach does not re-quire any language-specific knowledge so it?s gen-erally applicable to any other language pairs.
Wealso compare our approach to state-of-the-art nametranslation mining approaches.1.1 Wikipedia StatisticsA standard Wikipedia entry includes a title, a docu-ment describing the entry, and an ?infobox?
which2http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601is a fixed-format table designed to be added tothe top right-hand corner of the article to con-sistently present a summary of some unifying at-tributes (or ?slots?)
about the entry.
For example,in the Wikipedia entry about the singer ?BeyonceKnowles?, the infobox includes information abouther birth date, origin, song genres, occupation, etc.As of November 2010, there were 10,355,225 En-glish Wikipedia entries, and 772,826 entries.
Only27.2% of English Wikipedia entries have cross-lingual hyperlinks referring to their correspondingChinese entries.Wikipedia entries are created and updated expo-nentially (Almeida et al, 2007) because of the in-creasing number of contributors, many of whom arenot multi-lingual speakers.
Therefore it is valuableto align the cross-lingual entries by effective namemining.1.2 Motivating ExampleFigure 1: A Motivating ExampleFigure 1 depicts a motivating example for our ap-proach.
Based on the assumption that if two per-son entries had the same birth date and death date,44they are likely to be the same person, we can findthe entity pair of (Michael Jackson /???.???
).We can get many name pairs using similar language-independent clues.
Then starting from these namepairs, we can iteratively get new pairs with a largeportion of overlapped slots.
For example, since???????
and ?The Jackson 5?
share many slotvalues such as ?member?
and ?years active?, theyare likely to be a translation pair.
Next we can usethe new pair of (The Jackson 5 / ?????)
tomine more pairs such as ??????
and ?SteeltownRecords.
?2 Data and Pre-ProcessingBecause not all Wikipedia contributors follow thestandard naming conventions and date/number for-mats for all languages, infoboxes include somenoisy instances.
Fortunately the NIST TAC Knowl-edge Base Population (KBP) task (Ji et al, 2010) de-fined mapping tables which can be directly used tonormalize different forms of slot types3.
For exam-ple, we can group ?birthdate?, ?date of birth?, ?date-birth?
and ?born?
to ?birth date.?
In addition, we alsonormalized all date slot values into one standard for-mat as ?YYYY MM DD.?
For example, both ?1461-8-5?
and ?5 August, 1461?
are normalized as ?146108 05.?
Only those Wikipedia entries that have atleast one slot corresponding to the Knowledge BasePopulation task are used for name mining.
Entrieswith multiple infoboxes are also discarded as theseare typically ?List of ?
entries and do not corre-spond to a particular named entity.
The number ofentries in the resulting data set are shown in Table 1.The set of slots were finally augmented to includethe entry?s name as a new slot.
The cross-linguallinks between Chinese and English Wikipedia pageswere used as the gold standard that the unsupervisedalgorithm attempted to learn.Language Entries Slot Values E-Z PairsEnglish (E) 634,340 2,783,882 11,109Chinese (Z) 21,152 110,466Table 1: Processed Data Statistics3It is important to note that the vast majority of ChineseWikipedia pages store slot types in English in the underlyingwiki source, removing the problem of aligning slot types be-tween languages.3 Unsupervised Name Pair MiningThe name pair mining algorithm takes as input a setof English infoboxes E and Chinese infoboxes Z.Each infobox consists of a set of slot-value pairs,where each slot or value may occur multiple times ina single infobox.
The output of the algorithm is a setof pairs of English and Chinese infoboxes, match-ing an infobox in one language to the correspondinginfobox in the other language.
There is nothing in-herently designed in the algorithm for English andChinese, and this method could be applied to anylanguage pair.Because the algorithm is unsupervised, it beginswith no initial pairs, nor is there any initial trans-lation lexicon between the two languages.
As thenew pairs are learned, both the entries titles and thevalues of their infoboxes are used to generate newtranslations which can be used to learn more cross-lingual name pairs.3.1 Search AlgorithmThe name pair mining algorithm considers all pairsof English and Chinese infoboxes4, assigns a score,described in Section 3.2, to each pair and then greed-ily selects the highest scoring pairs, with the follow-ing constraints:1.
Each infobox can only be paired to a single in-fobox in the other language, with the highestscoring infobox being selected.
While there aresome instances of two entries in one languagefor one entity which both have translation linksto the same page in another language, these arerare occurrences and did not occur for the KBPmapped data used in these experiments.2.
An pair (e, z) can only be added if the scorefor the pair is at least 95%5 percent higher thanthe score for the second best pair for both e andz.
This eliminates the problem of ties in thedata, and follows the intuition that if there are4The algorithm does not need to compare all pairs of in-foboxes as the vast majority will have a score of 0.
Only thosepairs with some equivalent slot-value pairs need to be scored.The set of non-zero scoring pairs can thus be quickly found byindexing the slot-value pairs.5The value of 95% was arbitrarily chosen; variations in thisthreshold produce only small changes in performance.45multiple pairs with very similar scores it is ben-eficial to postpone the decision until more evi-dence becomes available.To improve the speed of the algorithm, the top 500scoring pairs, that do not violate these constraints,are added at each iteration.
The translation lexiconis then updated.
The translation lexicon is updatedeach iteration from the total set of pairs learned us-ing the following procedure.
For each pair (e, z) inthe learned pairs, new translations are added for eachof the following conditions:1.
A translation of the name of e to the name z isadded.2.
If a slot s in e has one value, ve, and that slotin z has one value, vz , a translation ve ?
vz isadded.3.
If a slot s has multiple values in e and z, but allbut one of these values, for both e and z, havetranslations to values in the other entry, then atranslation is learned for the resulting untrans-lated value.These new translations are all given equal weightand are added to the translation lexicon even if theevidence for this translation occurs in only a sin-gle name pair6.
These translations can be used toalign more name pairs in subsequent iterations byproviding more evidence that a given pair should bealigned.
After a translation is learned, we considerthe English side to be equivalent to the Chinese sidewhen scoring future infobox pairs.The algorithm halts when there are no longer anynew name pairs with non-zero score which also sat-isfy the search constraints described above.3.2 Scoring FunctionA score can be calculated for the pairing of an En-glish infobox, e and a Chinese infobox, z accordingto the following formula:?s?slots{IZ(s) + IE(s) ?v1, v2 : z.s.v1 ?
e.s.v20 otherwise(1)6Assigning a probability to each translation learned basedupon the number of entries providing evidence for the transla-tion could be used to further refine the predictions of the model,but was not explored in this work.A slot-value pair in Chinese, z.s.v1, is consideredequivalent to a slot-value pair in English, e.s.v2, ifthe values are the same (typically only the case withnumerical values) or if there is a known translationfrom v1 to v2.
These translations are automaticallylearned during the name-mining process.
Initiallythere are no known translations between the two lan-guages.The term IL(s) in equation 1 reflects how infor-mative the slot s is in either English (E) or Chinese(Z), and is calculated as the number of unique val-ues for that slot for that language divided by the to-tal number of slot-value pairs for that language, asshown in equation 2.IL(slot s) =|{v|i ?
L ?
?i.s.v}||{i.s.v|i ?
L}|(2)If a slot s contains unique values such that a slotand value pair is never repeated then IL(s) is 1.0and indicates that the slot distinguishes entities verywell.
Slots such as ?date of birth?
are less infor-mative since many individuals share the same birth-date, and slots such as ?origin?
are the least informa-tive since so many people are from the same coun-tries.
A sampling of the IL(s) scores is shown inTable 2.
The slots ?origin?
and ?religion?
are the twolowest scoring slots in both languages, while ?in-fobox name?
(the name of wikipedia page in ques-tion), ?website?, ?founded?
are the highest scoringslot types.Slot IZ IEorigin 0.21 0.03religion 0.24 0.08parents 0.57 0.60date of birth 0.84 0.33spouse 0.97 0.86founded by 0.97 0.94website 0.99 0.96infobox name 1.00 1.00Table 2: Sample I(s) Values4 EvaluationIn this section we present the evaluation results ofour approach.464.1 Evaluation MethodHuman evaluation of mined name pairs can be dif-ficult as a human assessor may frequently need toconsult the infoboxes of the entries along with con-textual documents to determine if a Chinese entryand an English entry correspond to the same en-tity.
This is especially true when the translations arebased on meanings instead of pronunciations.
An al-ternative way of mining name pairs from Wikipediais to extract titles from a Chinese Wikipedia pageand its corresponding linked English page if the linkexists (Ji et al, 2009).
This method results in avery high precision but can miss pairs if no suchlink between the pages exists.
We utilized thesecross-lingual page links as an answer key and thenonly performed manual evaluation, using a bilingualspeaker, on those pairs generated by our algorithmthat were not in the answer key.4.2 ResultsFigure 2 shows the precision, recall and f-score ofthe algorithm as it learns more pairs.
The finaloutput of the mining learned 8799 name pairs, ofwhich 7562 were correct according to the cross-lingual Wikipedia links.
This results in a precisionof 85.94%, a recall of 68.07% and a F1 score of75.9%.
The precision remains above 95% for thefirst 7,000 name pairs learned.
If highly precise an-swers are desired, at the expense of recall, the algo-rithm could be halted earlier.
The translation lexiconcontained 18,941 entries, not including translationslearned from the entry names themselves.Assessment NumberLink Missing From Wikipedia 35 2.8%Same Name, Different Entity 17 1.4%Partially Correct 98 7.9%Incorrect 1,087 87.9%Table 3: Human Assessment of ErrorsBecause the answer key for name mining is au-tomatically extracted from the cross-lingual linksin Wikipedia, it is possible that correct name pairscould be missing from the answer key if no cross-lingual link exists.
To examine if any such pairswere learned, a manual assessment of the name pairsthat were not in the answer key was performed, asshown in Table 4.2.
This assessment was performedby bilingual speakers with an inter-annotator agree-ment rate of 93.75%.The vast majority, 87.9%, of the presumably er-roneous name pairs assessed that were missing fromthe answer-key were actually incorrect pairs.
How-ever, 35, or 2.8%, of the name pairs were actuallycorrect with their corresponding Wikipedia pageslacking cross-lingual links (these corrections arenot reflected in the previous results reported above,which were based solely on the pairs in the an-swer key).
For a small portion, 1.4%, of the errors,the name translation is correct but the entries actu-ally refer to different entities with the same name.One such example is (Martin Rowlands / ???
).The English entity, ?Martin Rowlands?
is an ath-lete (an English football player), while the Chineseentity is a former Hong Kong government official,whose name translates to English as ?Martin Row-lands?, as revealed on his Wikipedia page.
Neitherentity has an entry in the other language.
The fi-nal category are partially correct answers, such asthe pair (Harrow, London / ???
), where the En-glish entry refers to an area within the London Bor-ough of Harrow, while the Chinese entry refers tothe London Borough of Harrow as a whole.
TheEnglish entry ?Harrow, London?
does not have acorresponding entry in Chinese, although there isan entry in both language for the larger Borough it-self.
All of these cases represent less 15% of thelearned name pairs though as 85.94% of the namepairs were already determined to be correct basedon cross-lingual Wikipedia links.Judgement PercentCorrect 64.4%Partial 18.4%Incorrect 15.1%Not Translations 2.1%Table 4: Slot Value Translation Assessment from Ran-dom Sample of 1000The name mining algorithm bootstraps manyname pairs by using possible translations betweenthe slot values in previously learned pairs.
The fi-nal translation lexicon learned had 18,941 entries.A random sample of 1,000 entries from the trans-47Figure 2: Performance of Unsupervised Name Mininglation lexicon was assessed by a human annotator,and judged as correct, partial, incorrect or not trans-lations, as shown in Table 4.2.
Partial translationswere usually cases where a city was written withits country name in language and as just the cityname in the other languages, such as ?Taipei TaiwanRepublic of China?
and ?????
(Taipei).
Casesare marked as ?not translations?
if both sides are inthe same language, typically English, such as ?EricHeiden?
in English being considered a translation of?Eric Arthur Heiden?
from a Chinese entry (not inChinese characters though).
This normally occurs ifthe Chinese page contained English words that werenot translated or transliterated.An example7 of the name mining is shown in Fig-ure 3, where the correct name pair for (George W.Bush / ????????)
is learned in iteration i,is mined for additional translations and then pro-vides evidence in iteration i+1 for the correct namepair (Laura Bush / ?????????).
Whenlearning the name pair for ?George W.
Bush?, ev-idence is first found from the slots marked as equiv-alent (approx).
Translations for ?Harvard Busi-ness School?
and ?
Republican Party?
were learnedin previous iterations from other name pairs andnow provide evidence, along with the identical val-ues in the ?date of birth?
slot for the pair (GeorgeW.
Bush / ????????).
After learning this7Many slot value pairs that were not relevant for the calcu-lation are not shown to save space.
Otherwise, this example isas learned in the unsupervised name mining.pair, new translations are extracted from the pairfor ?George W.
Bush?, ?George Walker Bush?,?President of the United States?, ?Laura Bush?,and ?Yale University?.
The translations for ?LauraBush?
and ?George W. Bush?
provide crucial in-formation in the next iteration that the pair (LauraBush / ?????????)
is correct.
From this,more translations are learned, although not all ofthese translations are fully correct, such as ?AuthorTeacher Librarian First Lady?
which is now pos-tulated to be a translation of ?????
(Librar-ian), which is only partially true, as the other pro-fessions are not represented in the translation.
Whilesuch translations may not be fully correct, they stillcould prove useful for learning future name pairs (al-though this is unlikely in this case since there arevery few entries with ?first lady?
as part of their ti-tle.5 DiscussionBesides retaining high accuracy, the final list ofname pairs revealed several advantages of our ap-proach.Most previous name translation methods are lim-ited to names which are phonetically transliterated(e.g.
translate Chinese name ????
(You shenke)?
to ?Yushchenko?
in English).
But many othertypes of names such as organizations are often ren-dered semantically, for example, the Chinese name?????
(jie fang zhi hu)?
is translated into ?Lib-eration Tiger?
in English.
Some other names in-48Iteration iGeorge W. Bush ????????
(George Walker Bush)alt names George Walker Bush alt names ??????
(George Bush)title President of the United States title ????
(President of theUSA)date of birth 1946-7-6 ?
date of birth 1946-7-6member of Republican Party ?
member of ???
(Republican Party)spouse Laura Bush spouse ?????????
(LauraWelch Bush)schools attended Yale University schools attended ????
(Yale University)schools attended Harvard Business School ?
schools attended ?????
(Harvard BusinessSchool)Iteration i + 1Laura Bush ?????????
(Laura Welch Bush)alt names Laura Bush ?
alt names ?????????
(LauraWelch Bush)alt names ?????????
(LauraLane Welch)date of birth 1946-11-4 ?
date of birth 1946-11-4place of birth Midland Texas place of birth ????????
(TexasMidland)title Author Teacher Librarian FirstLadytitle ?????
(Librarian)title First Lady of the United States ?
title ??????
(First Lady ofUSA)spouse George W. Bush ?
spouse ????????
(GeorgeWalker Bush)Figure 3: Example of Learned Name Pairs with Gloss Translations in Parenthesesvolve both semantic and phonetic translations, ornone of them.
Our approach is able to discover allthese different types, regardless of their translationsources.
For example, our approach successfullymined a pair (Tarrytown / ???)
where ?Tarry-town?
is translated into ?????
neither by its pro-nunciation ?bai you cun?
nor its meaning ?tar vil-lage.
?Name abbreviations are very challenging to trans-late because they need expansions based on con-texts.
However our approach mined many abbrevia-tions using slot value comparison.
For example, thepair of (Yctc /????)
was successfully mined al-though its English full name ?Yeh-Chiang Technol-ogy Corp.?
did not appear in the infoboxes.Huang (2005) also pointed out that name transla-tion benefited from origin-specific features.
In con-trast, our approach is able to discover name pairsfrom any origins.
For example, we discovered theperson name pair (Seishi Yokomizo / ????)
inwhich ?Seishi Yokomizo?
was transliterated basedon Japanese pronunciation.Furthermore, many name translations are contextdependent.
For example, a person name in Chinese??????????
could be translated into ?YasserArafat?
(PLO Chairman) or ?Yasir Arafat?
(Crick-eter) based on different contexts.
Our method cannaturally disambiguate such entities based on slotcomparison at the same time as translation mining.More importantly, our final list includes a largeportion of uncommon names, which can be valu-able to address the out-of-vocabulary problem inboth MT and cross-lingual information processing.Especially we found many of them are not in thename pairs mined from the cross-lingual Wikipediatitle links, such as (Axis Communications / ???
),(Rowan Atkinson / ??????
), (ELSA Technol-ogy /?????)
and (Nelson Ikon Wu /???
).496 Comparison with Previous Methods andResourcesThere have been some previous methods focusing onmining name translations using weakly-supervisedlearning.
In addition there are some existing nametranslation gazetteers which were manually con-structed.
We duplicated a variety of alternativestate-of-the-art name translation mining methodsand mined some corresponding name pair sets forcomparison.
In fact we were able to implement thetechniques in previous approaches but could not du-plicate the same number of results because we couldnot access the same data sets.
Therefore the mainpurpose of this experiment is not to claim our ap-proach outperforms these existing methods, ratherto investigate whether we can mine any new infor-mation on top of these methods from reasonableamounts of data.1.
Name Pair Mining from BitextsWithin each sentence pair in a parallel cor-pus, we ran an HMM based bilingual nametagger (references omitted for anonymous re-view).
If the types of the name tags on bothsides are identical, we extract the name pairsfrom this sentence.
Then at the corpus-widelevel, we count the frequency for each namepair, and only keep the name pairs that are fre-quent enough.
The corpora used for this ap-proach were all DARPA GALE MT trainingcorpora.2.
Comparable CorporaWe implemented an information extractiondriven approach as described in Ji (2009) toextract name pairs from comparable corpora.This approach is based on extracting infor-mation graphs from each language and alignnames by a graph traverse algorithm.
The cor-pora used for this approach were 2000 Englishdocuments and 2000 Chinese documents fromthe Gigaword corpora.3.
Using patterns for Web miningWe constructed heuristic patterns such as par-enthetical structure ?Chinese name (Englishname)?
(Lin et al, 2008) to extract name pairsfrom web data with mixed Chinese and En-glish.
We used about 1,000 web pages for thisexperiment.4.
Bilingual GazetteerWe exploited an LDC bilingual name dictio-nary (LDC2005T34) and a Japanese-Englishperson name dictionary including 20126Japanese names written in Chinese charac-ters (Kurohashi et al, 1994).5.
ACE2007 Entity Translation Training DataWe also used ACE 2007 entity translation train-ing corpus which includes 119 Chinese-Englishdocument pairs.Table 5 shows the number of correct and uniquepairs mined pairs from each of the above ap-proaches, as well as how these name mining meth-ods can be augmented using the infobox name min-ing described in this paper.
The names mined fromour approach greatly extend the total number of cor-rect translations with only a small number of con-flicting name translations.7 Related WorkMost of the previous name translation work com-bined supervised transliteration approaches withLanguage Model based re-scoring (Al-Onaizan andKnight, 2002; Huang et al, 2004; Huang, 2005).Our goal of addressing name translation for a largenumber of languages is similar to the panlingual lex-ical translation project (Etzioni et al, 2007).
Somerecent research used comparable corpora to re-scorename transliterations (Sproat et al, 2006; Klemen-tiev and Roth, 2006) or mine new word transla-tions (Udupa et al, 2009; Ji, 2009; Fung and Yee,1998; Rapp, 1999; Shao and Ng, 2004; Hassan et al,2007).
However, most of these approaches neededlarge amount of seeds and suffered from informa-tion extraction errors, and thus relied on phoneticsimilarity or document similarity to re-score candi-date name translation pairs.Some recent cross-lingual information accesswork explored attribute mining from Wikipediapages.
For example, Bouma et al (2009) aligned at-tributes in Wikipedia infoboxes based on cross-pagelinks.
Navigli and Ponzetto (2010) built a multi-lingual semantic network by integrating the cross-lingual Wikipedia page links and WordNet.
Ji et50# Name Infobox MiningMethod Pairs # New # ConflictingAutomatic(1) Bitexts 2,451 8,673 78(2) Comparable Corpora 288 8,780 13(3) Patterns for Web Mining 194 8799 0Manual (4) Bilingual Gazetteer 59,886 8,689 74(5) ACE2007 Training Data 1,541 8,718 52Table 5: Name Pairs Mined Using Previous Methodsal.
(2009) described various approaches to auto-matically mine name translation pairs from alignedphrases (e.g.
cross-lingual Wikipedia title links)or aligned sentences (bi-texts).
G et al (2009)mined candidate words from Wikipedia and vali-dated translations based on parallecl corpora.
Someother work mined name translations from mono-lingual documents that include foreign languagetexts.
For example, Lin et al (2008) described aparenthesis translation mining method; You et al(2010) applied graph alignment algorithm to ob-tain name translation pairs based on co-occurrencestatistics.
This kind of data does not commonly existfor low-density languages.
Sorg and Cimiano (2008)discovered cross-lingual links between English andGerman using supervised classification based onsupport vector machines.
Adar et al (2009) alignedcross-lingual infoboxes using a boolean classifierbased on self-supervised training with various lin-guistic features.
In contrast, our approach describedin this paper is entirely based on unsupervised learn-ing without using any linguistic features.
de Meloand Weikum (2010) described an approach to detectimprecise or wrong cross-lingual Wikipedia linksbased on graph repair operations.
Our algorithm canhelp recover those missing cross-lingual links.8 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper we described a simple, cheap and ef-fective self-boosting approach to mine name trans-lation pairs from Wikipedia infoboxes.
This methodis implemented in a completely unsupervised fash-ion, without using any manually created seed set,training data, transliteration or pre-knowledge aboutthe language pair.
The underlying motivation isthat some certain expressions, such as numbers anddates, are written in language-independent formsamong a large majority of languages.
Therefore ourapproach can be applied to any language pairs in-cluding low-density languages as long as they sharea small set of such expressions.
Experiments onEnglish-Chinese pair showed that this approach isable to mine thousands of name pairs with morethan 85% accuracy.
In addition the resulting namepairs can be used to significantly augment the resultsfrom existing approaches.
The mined name pairs aremade publicly available.In the future we will apply our method to mineother entity types from more language pairs.
Wewill also extend our name discovery method to allinfobox pairs, not just those that can be mappedinto KBP-like slots.
As a bi-product, our methodcan be used for automatic cross-lingual Wikipediapage linking, as well as unsupervised translation lex-icon extraction, although this might require confi-dence estimates on the translations learned.
Onceour approach is applied to a panlingual setting (mostlanguages on the Wikipedia), we can also utilizethe voting results across multiple languages to au-tomatically validate information or correct poten-tial errors in Wikipedia infoboxes.
Finally, as au-tomatic name profile generation systems are gener-ated cross-lingually, our method could be attemptedto automatic cross-lingual mappings between enti-ties.AcknowledgementThis work was supported by the U.S. Army Re-search Laboratory under Cooperative AgreementNumber W911NF-09-2-0053, the U.S. NSF CA-REER Award under Grant IIS-0953149 and PSC-CUNY Research Program.
The views and con-clusions contained in this document are those ofthe authors and should not be interpreted as repre-51senting the official policies, either expressed or im-plied, of the Army Research Laboratory or the U.S.Government.
The U.S. Government is authorizedto reproduce and distribute reprints for Govern-ment purposes notwithstanding any copyright nota-tion hereon.ReferencesEytan Adar, Michael Skinner, and Daniel S. Weld.
2009.Information arbitrage across multi-lingual wikipedia.In Second ACM International Conference on WebSearch and Data Mining (WSDM?09), Barcelona,Spain, February 2009, February.Yaser Al-Onaizan and Kevin Knight.
2002.
Translat-ing named entities using monolingual and bilingual re-sources.
In ACL 2002.Rodrigo B. Almeida, BarzanMosafari, and Junghoo Cho.2007.
On the evolution of wikipedia.
In Int.
Conf.
onWeblogs and Social Media.So?ren Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, JensLehmann, Richard Cyganiak, and Zachary Ives.
2007.Dbpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data.
In The 6thInternational Semantic Web Conference.Kurt Bollacker, Robert Cook, and Patrick Tufts.
2007.Freebase: A shared database of structured general hu-man knowledge.
In The National Conference on Arti-ficial Intelligence (Volume 2).Gosse Bouma, Sergio Duarte, and Zahurul Islam.
2009.Cross-lingual alignment and complettion of wikipediatemplates.
In The Third International Workshop onCross Lingual Information Access: Addressing the In-formation Need of Multilingual Societies.Gerard de Melo and Gerhard Weikum.
2010.
Untanglingthe cross-lingual link structure of wikipedia.
In 48thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL 2010), Uppsala, Sweden.Pascale Fung and Lo Yuen Yee.
1998.
An ir approach fortranslating new words from nonparallel and compara-ble texts.
In COLING-ACL.Rohit Bharadwaj G, Niket Tandon, and Vasudeva Varma.2009.
An iterative approach to extract dictionariesfrom wikipedia for under-resourced languages.
InProc.
ICON2010, February.Ahmed Hassan, Haytham Fahmy, and Hany Hassan.2007.
Improving named entity translation by exploit-ing comparable and parallel corpora.
In RANLP.Fei Huang, Stephan Vogel, and Alex Waibel.
2004.
Im-proving named entity translation combining phoneticand semantic similarities.
In HLT/NAACL2004.Fei Huang.
2005.
Cluster-specific name transliteration.In HLT-EMNLP 2005.IBM.
2010.
Ibm globalization library.Heng Ji, Ralph Grishman, Dayne Freitag, MatthiasBlume, John Wang, Shahram Khadivi, Richard Zens,and Hermann Ney.
2009.
Name translation for distil-lation.
Handbook of Natural Language Processing andMachine Translation: DARPA Global AutonomousLanguage Exploitation.Heng Ji, Ralph Grishman, Hoa Trang Dang, and KiraGriffitt.
2010.
An overview of the tac2010 knowledgebase population track.
In Text Analytics Conference(TAC2010).Heng Ji.
2009.
Mining name translations from com-parable corpora by creating bilingual information net-works.
In ACL-IJCNLP 2009 workshop on Buildingand Using Comparable Corpora (BUCC 2009): fromParallel to Non-parallel Corpora.Michael E. Krauss.
2007.
Keynote-mass Language Ex-tinction and Documentation: The Race Over Time.
TheVanishing Languages of the Pacific Rim.
Oxford Uni-versity Press.Sadao Kurohashi, Toshihisa Nakamura, Yuji Matsumoto,and Makoto Nagao.
1994.
Improvements of japanesemorphological analyzer juman.
In The InternationalWorkshop on Sharable Natural Language Resourcesand pp.22-28.Dekang Lin, Shaojun Zhao, Benjamin Van Durme, andMarius Pasca.
2008.
Mining parenthetical translationsfrom the web by word alignment.
In ACL2008.Roberto Navigli and Simone Paolo Ponzetto.
2010.
Ba-belnet: Building a very large multilingual semanticnetwork.
In 48th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics (ACL 2010), Uppsala,Sweden.Reinhard Rapp.
1999.
Automatic identification of wordtranslations from unrelated english and german cor-pora.
In ACL 1999.Li Shao and Hwee Tou Ng.
2004.
Mining newword translations from comparable corpora.
In COL-ING2004.Philipp Sorg and Philipp Cimiano.
2008.
Enrich-ing the crosslingual link structure of wikipedia - aclassification-based approach.
In AAAI 2008 Work-shop on Wikipedia and Artifical Intelligence, June.Fabian M. Suchanek, Gjergji Kasneci, and GerhardWeikum.
2007.
Yago: A core of semantic knowledge.In The 16th International World Wide Web conference.Raghavendra Udupa, K. Saravanan, A. Kumaran, and Ja-gadeesh Jagarlamudi.
2009.
Mint: A method for ef-fective and scalable mining of named entity transliter-ations from large comparable corpora.
In EACL2009.Gae-won You, Seung won Hwang, Young-In Song, LongJiang, and Zaiqing Nie.
2010.
Mining name transla-tions from entity graph mapping.
In EMNLP2010.52
