Classifying Arabic Verbs Using Sibling ClassesJaouad MousserUniversity Of KonstanzDepartment of LinguisticsJaouad.Mousser@uni-konstanz.deAbstractIn the effort of building a verb lexicon classifying the most used verbs in Arabic and providing in-formation about their syntax and semantics (Mousser, 2010), the problem of classes over-generationarises because of the overt morphology of Arabic, which codes not only agreement and inflectionrelations but also semantic information related to thematic arity or other semantic information like?intensity?, ?pretension?, etc.
The hierarchical structure of verb classes and the inheritance relationbetween their subparts expels derived verbs from the main class, although they share most of itsproperties.
In this article we present a way to adapt the verb class approach to a language with aproductive (verb) morphology by introducing sibling classes.1 IntroductionClass based approach to lexical semantics such as presented in Levin (1993) provides a straightforwardway of describing a large number of verbs in a compact and generalized way.
The main assumption isthe correlation between the syntactic behaviour of verbs as reflected in diathesis alternations and their se-mantic properties.
Verbs which participate in the same set of diathesis alternations are assumed to sharethe same meaning facets.
Verbs like abate, acidify, dry, crystallize, etc.
share a meaning componentand are grouped into a class (change-of-state), since they participate in the causative/incoative alterna-tion, the middle alternation, the instrument subject alternation and the resultative alternation (Levin,1993).
Class based lexica have turned out to be usefull lexical resources such as the English VerbNet(Kipper Schuler, 2005), which provides information about thematic roles, syntactic and semantic struc-ture of 5879 English verbs.
Trying to use the same approach to classify verbs of a morphologicallyrich language like Arabic, the researcher is faced with difficulties because many alternations requiremorphological operations to express meaning aspects, especially those related to thematic roles.
(1) Causative/Incoative Alternation in Arabica.
nas?s?afa saliymun a?lmala?bisa.dry-CAUS-PRF Salim-SUBJ-NOM DEF-cloth-PL-OBJ-ACC.
?Salim dried the clothes.?b.
nas?afati a?lmala?bisu.dry-PRF-PL DEF-cloth-PL-SUBJ-NOM?The colthes dried.
?In example (1) the causative/incoative alternation is realized through an overt morphological change onthe head of the sentence (reduplication of the second root consonant in (1a)), in such a way that the verbchanges to a new entry, which according to the hierarchical organisation of the class and especially to theinheritance relation between its subparts, cannot longer be kept into the original class.
Transporting thenew verb entry into a new class risks to loose its connection to the original class, which is an undesiredeffect, since it does not necessarily reflect the natural organisation of the lexicon of Arabic.3552 Arabic VerbNet and Class StructureArabic VerbNet1 is a large coverage verb lexicon exploiting Levin?s classes (Levin, 1993) and the basicdevelopment procedure of Kipper Schuler (2005).
The current version has 202 classes populating 4707verbs and 834 frames.
Every class is a hierarchical structure providing syntactic and semantic informa-tion about verbs and percolating them to subclasses.
In the top level of each class there are verb entriesrepresented as tuples.
Each tuple contains the verb itself, its root form, the deverbal form and the par-ticiple.
At the same level thematic roles and their restrictions are encoded.
The important informationabout the class resides in the frames reflecting alternations where the verbs can appear.
Every frameis represented as an example sentence, a syntactic structure and a semantic structure containing seman-tic predicates and their arguments and temporal information in a way similar to Moens and Steedman(1988).
Every class can have subclasses for cases where members deviate from the prototypical verb insome non central points.
A subclass recursively reflects the same structure as the main class and can(therefore) itself have subclasses.
A subclass inherits all properties of the main class and is placed insuch a way that the members in the top level are closed for the information it adds.
This fact hindersputting derived verbs participating in alternations into the main class or in one of the subclasses.3 Sibling ClassesIntroducing sibling classes is a way to resolve the problem arising from the discrepancy between twoderivationally related morphological verb forms which participate in the same set of alternations andtherefore share the same semantic meaning.
Tables 1 and 2 show two sibling classes and their alternationssets.
The incoative alternation introduces a morphological change in the verbs.
This fact blocks thederived verbs from entering in any inheritance relation to the base verbs according to the hierarchicalstructure of the class they belong to.
Consequently, a sibling class (Table 2) is created to populate theverbs resulting from alternations requiring morphological changes.4 Automatic Extension of Arabic VerbNet via Sibling Classes4.1 Morphological Verb AnalyserIn order to generate derived verb forms a Java based morphological analyser was implemented as partof a system in order to generating sibling classes automatically (Sibling class generator SCG).
Thisprovides an analyse of the morphological composition of the input verbs.
The program is based onregular expressions and identifies the following features:?
Verb root: This corresponds to an abstract form of 2?4 consonants carrying a basic semanticmeaning of the verb.
Thus, ktb is the abstract root of the verb kataba ?to write?
but also of otherderivationally related words such as Iinkataba ?INC-write?, takaAtaba, ?RECIP-write?
?to corre-spond?.?
Verb pattern: This corresponds to the verb pattern in the classical Arabic grammar and is repre-sented by a canonical verb form faEala2 where the letters f, E and l correspond respectively to thefirst, the second and the third root consonant of the input verb.
Thus, the pattern of a verb such asIinokataba will be IinofaEala, where f, E and l correspond to k, t, b which are the root consonantsof the verb.Table 3 shows the produced morphological analysis of the verbs kataba ?to write?, Iinokataba ?INC-write?
and takaAtaba ?to correspond?.
The extracted features are then used in combination with semanticinformation of verb classes to generate morpho-semantic derivational forms of verbs and later semanti-cally derived verb classes (sibling classes) as explained in the next sections.4.2 Identifying Expandable Verb ClassesThe input of SCG are the basic verb classes produced in the first stadium of the lexicon building(Mousser, 2010).
In order to define which classes are good candidates to be expanded according to1http://ling.uni-konstanz.de/pages/home/mousser/files/Arabic_VerbNet.php2Pattern are transliterated using Buckwalter?s style.
All other Arabic examples are transliterated using Lagally356Table 1: The change of state class in Arabic.
The causative use.Class: Change of StateMembers: ?as.
rana ?modernize?, h?as.
h?as.
a ?privatize?, ?awolama ?globalize?, ?arraba ?arabize?, etc.Roles and Restrictions: Agent [+int control] Patient InstrumentDescriptions Examples Syntax SemanticsBasic Intransitive nas?s?afa saliym mala?bisahu.
(Salimdried his clothes)V Agent Patient cause(Agent, E), state(result(E), End-state, Patient)NP-PP nas?s?afa saliym malaa?bisahu bia?lbuh?aa?-r. (Salim dried his clothes with thevapour)V Agent Patient {bi}Instrumentcause(Agent, E), state(result(E), End-state, Patient), use(during(E), Agent,Instrument)InstrumentSubjectnas?s?afa a?lbuh?aa?ru a?lmala?bisa.
(Thevapour dried the clothes.
)V Instrument Patient use(during(E), ?Agent, Instrument),state(result(E), Endstate, Patient)SubclassTable 2: The change of state sibling class in Arabic.
The incoative use.Sibling Class: Change of StateMembers: ta?as.
rana ?INC-modernize?, tah?as.
h?as.
a ?INC-privatize?, ta?awolama ?INC-globalize?,ta?arraba ?INC-arabize?, etc.Roles and Restrictions: Agent [+int control] Patient InstrumentDescriptions Examples Syntax SemanticsV NP.patient nas?afati a?lmala?bisahu.
(The clothesdried)V Patient state(result(E), Endstate, Patient)PP nas?afati a?lmala?bisahu bia?lbuh?aa?r.
(The clothes dried with the vapour.
)V Patient Instrument use(during(E), ?Agent, Instrument),state(result(E), Endstate, Patient)Subclasscausativity criteria, thematic role information and semantic predicates of class frames are detected.Classes of verbs with the thematic role agent and compositional semantics containing the causative pred-icate CAUSE are selected as in the case of change-of-state classes.
Additionally, inherently uncausativeverb classes involving a change of state are identified according to whether they possess a patient themeoccupying the subject position and accordingly whether their compositional semantics include the changeof state predicate STATE.4.3 Generating Sibling ClassesGenerating sibling classes requires generating the appropriate morphological verb forms, new lists ofthematic roles and new frames with new syntactic descriptions and new predicate semantics reflectingthe derived meaning of the verbs (See Tables 1 and 2).4.3.1 Generating New Verb FormsVerbs of the new sibling classes are generated from morphological forms of the base verbs using thefollowing information:a.
The semantic morphological operation required for the input class (causativization, reciprocaliza-tion or decausativization).b.
The morphological properties of the input verbs such as root, pattern and segmental material.c.
Rewrite rules defining for each input verb pattern the appropriate derivative form to express thetarget semantic meaning.The generation of derived verbs reveals itself to be the reverse of the morphological analysis, as it consistsof replacing the consonants f, E and l of the relevant output pattern with the root consonants of the inputverb.
Thus, the change-of-state verb fah.
h. ama ?to carbonize?
with the root fh.
m and the pattern faEa?lawill produce the derived verb tafah.
h. ama ?INC-carbonize?
according to the decausativization rule 2 inthe Table 4 and by replacing the output pattern consonants f, E and l respectively with the root consonantsf , h. and m.357Table 3: Morphological informationVerb Root Pattern Segmentskataba ktb faEala a a aIinokataba ktb IinofaEala Iino a a atakaAtaba ktb taFaAEala ta aA a aTable 4: Rewrite rules for decausativizationInput pattern Output patternfaEala =?
IinofaEalafaEa?la =?
tafaEa?lafaAEala =?
tafaAEalafaEolana =?
tafaEolanafawoEala =?
tafawoEala4.3.2 Generating New Lists of Thematic RolesBuilding sibling classes is not only a morphological process but also a semantic one with repercussionson the thematic arity of the concerned class.
Thus, the simple reciprocal alternation found with socialinteraction and communication verbs adds a new theme role actor which can be used interchangeablywith the two symmetrical themes actor1 and actor2.
Other operations delete thematic roles in the newclass.
Thus decausativization deletes the thematic role agent from the list of roles.4.3.3 Generating New Argument StructuresAdapting thematic structures of the new sibling classes has an influence on their argument structures.Thus, adding a new thematic role while causativizing a verb class is reflected in the syntactic level byadding a new argument with its appropriate restrictions.
For instance, the introduction of the theme actorin the simple reciprocal alternation of interaction verbs imposes an additional restriction [+dual/+plural]on the subject at the syntactic level, whereas the object is omitted from the argument structure of theconcerned frame.
Additionally, the mapping between thematic roles and grammatical arguments is thesubject of change.
Thus, change-of-state verbs and other causative verbs are reflexivized by assigninga agent role to the patient in the causative reading.
At the syntactic level this operation is reflected byomitting the subject and promoting the object to the subject position.4.3.4 Generating New Semantic DescriptionsFor sibling classes to reflect the meaning variations introduced by the new morphological material, thesemantic description of input classes has to be modified by adding or omitting appropriate semanticpredicates.
Thus, causativization introduces the predicate CAUSE to the semantic description of theclass, whereas decausativization is reflected by omitting the same predicate and its argument whichcorresponds mostly to the agent of the concerned frame.
In the case of a simple reciprocal alternation thepresence of one (plural) actor is reflected by introducing two presupposed (implicit) actor roles: actor iand actor j in the main semantic description of the verb as shown in (2) in contrast to explicit actor rolesin (3).
(2) Implicit symmetrical actor rolessocial interaction(during(E), Actori, Actorj)(3) Explicit symmetrical actor rolessocial interaction(during(E), Actor1, Actor2)4.3.5 Generating New FramesWe generate new frames (alternations) on the basis of frames of the base (input) classes.
Since operationslike decausativization affect only the thematic arity of the class, alternations which are not related tocausativity are reproduced in the new classes.
For instance, the frame for the instrumental alternationof the causative verb class is reproduced by adapting the thematic structure to the incoative use.
Thus,358the frame alternation of (4a) will produce the frame alternation (4b), since the instrumental alternation inArabic can be found with causative verbs as well as with uncausative verbs.(4)a.
nas?s?afa saliymun a?lmala?bisa.
bia?lbuh?aa?ridry-CAUS-PRF Salim-SUBJ-NOM DEF-cloth-PL-OBJ-ACC with-DEF-vapor.
?Salim dried the clothes with the vapor.?b.
nas?ifati a?lmala?bisu.
bia?lbuh?aa?ridry-PRF DEF-cloth-PL-SUBJ-NOM with-DEF-vapor.
?The clothes was dried with the vapor.
?5 Results and DiscussionWe run SCG on the current version of Arabic VerbNet.
The program was able to identify 89 expandableclasses with 3005 verbs and 368 frames, 60 of them populate causative and 29 uncausative verbs.
Foreach class one sibling class was generated with a total of 3360 verbs and 368 frames.
The high numberof generated verbs is due to the fact that some verbs have more than one way to express the causative orthe inchoative.
After checking the quality of the produced classes, we count 71% accuracy in identifyingthe patterns of the verbs and 82% in generating their derived forms.
After manually adjusting the newsibling classes (deleting unsuitable verb forms and adding the correct ones, adding frame examples, etc.
),we noted that Arabic VerbNet counts now 291 classes populating 7937 verbs and 1202 frames, whichrepresents an expansion rate of 44%.
Noteworthy, not all verbs formed by the root-pattern system existsynchronically.
We observed that inside the same sibling class one verb can be widely found in differentArabic corpora whereas another verb of the same sibling class is not attested in the same corpora.
Forinstance, the verb nabah.
a ?to bark?
of the class animal sounds has a causative form anbah.
a ?cause tobark?, but for the most members of the same class the causative form are not attested to be used in the?real world?.
However, they are potential lexicon entries and native Arabic speakers will most likelyrecognize their meaning without being exposed to them before.
Additionally, given the fact that humanlexica are brittle and incomplete, the scope of Levin?s class approach (Levin, 1993) can be expanded toexplain the derivational behaviour of verbs: Verbs which belong to the same class and share the samesyntactic and semantic properties are likely to share the same derivational behaviour, especially whenthis behaviour is related to the general semantic properties of the class.6 ConclusionWe presented a way to classify verbs of a language with a productive (verb) morphology like Arabic.
Ad-ditionally to the traditional classes with a rigid hierarchical structure and a top-down inheritance relation,sibling classes were introduced to classify those verbs which engage in morohological operations duringdiathesis alternations.
Sibling classes are autonomous classes which maintain relations to the class theyare issued from consequently reflecting the natural connection between parents element in the lexicon.ReferencesKipper Schuler, K. (2005).
VerbNet: A Broad-Coverage, Comprehensive Verb Lexicon.
Ph.
D. thesis,University of Pennsylvania.Korhonen, A. and T. Briscoe (2004).
Extended lexical-semantic classification of english verbs.
In TheHLT/NACCL wokshop on computational lexical semantics.Levin, B.
(1993).
English Verb Classes and Alternations.
A Preliminary Investigation.
Chicago andLondon: The University of Chicago Press.Moens, M. and M. Steedman (1988).
Temporal ontology and temporal reference.
Computational Lin-guistics 14, 15?28.Mousser, J.
(2010).
A large coverage verb taxonomy for arabic.
In Proceedings of the Seventh conferenceon International Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC?10), Valetta, Malta.359
