Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2011: the 12th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 272?278,Portland, Oregon, June 17-18, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Annotation Scheme for Cross-Cultural Argumentationand Persuasion DialoguesKallirroi Georgila?, Ron Artstein?, Angela Nazarian?Michael Rushforth?
?, David Traum?, Katia Sycara?
?Institute for Creative Technologies, University of Southern California?Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon Universitykgeorgila@ict.usc.eduAbstractWe present a novel annotation scheme forcross-cultural argumentation and persuasiondialogues.
This scheme is an adaptation ofexisting coding schemes on negotiation, fol-lowing a review of literature on cross-culturaldifferences in negotiation styles.
The schemehas been refined through application to cod-ing both two-party and multi-party negotia-tion dialogues in three different domains, andis general enough to be applicable to differ-ent domains with few if any extensions.
Di-alogues annotated with the scheme have beenused to successfully learn culture-specific di-alogue policies for argumentation and persua-sion.1 IntroductionIn both cooperative and non-cooperative negotiationthe nature of the arguments used can be crucial forthe outcome of the negotiation.
Argumentation andpersuasion are basic elements of negotiation.
More-over, different cultures favor different types of argu-ments (Koch, 1983; Han and Shavitt, 1994; Zaharna,1995; Brett and Gelfand, 2006).
For example, it isclaimed that Western individualistic cultures favorarguments based on logic over arguments that appealto emotions.
On the other hand, people from East-ern collectivistic cultures are more likely to use ar-guments in which the beneficiary is not themselves.Furthermore, Arab cultures tend to favor more indi-rect ways of argumentation and expression (Koch,1983; Zaharna, 1995).
?Now at the University of Texas at San Antonio.In order to analyze negotiation in detail, includingaspects such as persuasion, negotiation, and cross-cultural differences, we have developed a novelannotation scheme.
General purpose annotationschemes such as DAMSL (Core and Allen, 1997)and DIT++ (Bunt, 2006) represent moves in the dia-logue but do not capture enough details of the inter-action to distinguish between different styles of per-suasion and argumentation, especially cross-culturaldifferences.Our goal for developing this coding scheme istwo-fold.
First, we aim to fill the gap in the litera-ture of cross-cultural argumentation and persuasion.To our knowledge this is the first annotation schemedesigned specifically for coding cross-cultural argu-mentation and persuasion strategies.
Previous workon cross-cultural negotiation, e.g.
Brett and Gelfand(2006), has not focused on argumentation or per-suasion in particular.
Also, previous work on argu-mentation, e.g.
Prakken (2008), has not attempted tocapture cross-cultural differences in argumentationand persuasion strategies.
Second, we use this cod-ing scheme to annotate negotiation dialogues to au-tomatically learn argumentation and persuasion di-alogue policies for different cultures (Georgila andTraum, 2011).2 Related Work2.1 Non-Culture Related Argumentation andPersuasionThe topic of negotiation has widely been studiedacross various fields including social and behavioralscience (Kern et al, 2005), and computer science(Sidner, 1994; Rose?
and Torrey, 2004).
Our spe-cific focus is on the role of argumentation and per-272suasion.
Sycara (1990) studied the role of argumen-tation in negotiation with regard to the role of ar-guments in changing the decision process of the in-terlocutor.
Most attempts have focused on study-ing the structure of argumentation and persuasion,often using formal logic (Cohen, 1987; Prakken,2008).
Dung (1995) showed that argumentation canbe viewed as a special form of logic programmingwith negation as failure.
An argumentation schemeis defined as a structure or template for forming anargument.
Schemes are necessary for identifyingarguments, finding missing premises, analyzing ar-guments, and evaluating arguments (Pollock, 1995;Katzav and Reed, 2004; Walton et al, 2008).Recently, there has been some work on using ma-chine learning techniques for automatically inter-preting (George et al, 2007) and generating argu-ments (Zukerman, 2001).
Note also the work of Pi-wek (2008) who performed a study on how argu-ments can be presented as fictive dialogues.
Finally,there are a few persuasive dialogue systems, e.g.Daphne (Grasso et al, 2000) and BIAS (Bayesian In-teractive Argumentation System) (Zukerman, 2001).2.2 Cross-Cultural Argumentation andPersuasionThere is a vast amount of research on cultural ef-fects on negotiation.
Brett and Gelfand (2006) iden-tify three aspects in cross-cultural negotiation: indi-vidualism vs. collectivism, egalitarianism vs. hierar-chy, and low context vs. high context communica-tion.
Typically Western individuals are individualis-tic, egalitarian, and use low context communicationwhile Eastern individuals are collectivistic, hierar-chical, and use high context communication.1Although there has been a considerable amount ofwork on building agents that can negotiate (Traumet al, 2003; Rose?
and Torrey, 2004), little has beendone towards building agents that can take into ac-count culture aspects of negotiation (Cassell, 2009;Paruchuri et al, 2009; Traum, 2009).Our literature review on cross-cultural argumen-tation and persuasion showed that there are com-paratively few papers related to cross-cultural argu-mentation and persuasion in dialogue.
Most workon cross-cultural studies is based on survey experi-1In high-context cultures the listener must understand thecontextual cues in order to grasp the full meaning of the mes-sage.
In low-context cultures communication tends to be spe-cific, explicit, and analytical.ments rather than dialogue analysis.
Below we sum-marize the works that we were influenced by themost.Peng and Nisbett (1999) studied the way Chinesevs.
European-American people reason about con-tradiction.
By contradiction, here, we mean op-posing pieces of information.
Chinese individualsadopt a dialectical or compromise approach by re-taining basic elements of the opposing perspectives.European-American people select one of the per-spectives as correct and dismiss the opposing ones.Koch (1983) linguistically analyzed several per-suasive texts in contemporary Arabic in which therewas both repetition of form and repetition of con-tent.
She found that Arabs use repetition as a meansfor persuasion.
This strategy is called ?presentationas proof?
or ?argumentation by presentation?.
Thusin Arabic argumentation it is the presentation of anidea that is persuasive, not the logical structure ofproof which Westerners see behind the words.
Za-harna (1995) examined how the Arab and Americancultures have two distinct perspectives for viewingthe role of language, for structuring persuasive mes-sages, and for communicating effectively with theiraudiences.
For Arabs emphasis is on form over func-tion, affect over accuracy, and image over meaning,which is in line with the work of Koch (1983).Finally, Cialdini?s work (1998) identified six prin-ciples of persuasion: reciprocation (tendency to re-turn favors), scarcity (associated with high value),authority (tendency to follow authority figures), so-cial proof (one is looking to the behavior of other in-dividuals to determine her own actions), liking (onetends to do things for people that she likes), andcommitment and consistency (one has difficulty toreverse her commitments).3 Our Annotation SchemeWe have developed a novel scheme for coding cross-cultural argumentation and persuasion strategies.This scheme is based on the literature review pre-sented in section 2.2, as well as our own analysis ofthree very different kinds of negotiation (section 4).To develop this annotation scheme, we started byadapting existing coding schemes on negotiation de-veloped by Pruitt and Lewis (1975), Carnevale et al(1981), and Sidner (1994).
We were also influencedby the work of Prakken on argumentation and di-alogue (2008), and the work of Cialdini (1998) onpersuasion (see section 2.2).
Our annotation scheme273was further refined by iteratively applying it to threedifferent negotiation domains.In our coding scheme, we use three dimensionsfor annotating an utterance: speech act, topic, andresponse or reference to a previous utterance.
Wehave divided our codes for speech acts in categories.Below we can see each category and the codes thatare included in it with explanatory examples, mostlydrawn from the florist-grocer dialogues described insection 4.1.3.1 Topic Trackingstart topic Let?s talk about the design.end topic We are done with the design.redirect topic We need to get back to the task.3.2 Information ExchangeThis category includes providing and requesting in-formation, broken down into three kinds of informa-tion that are about the negotiation (priority, value,preference) as well as a fourth category (fact) whichcan be further subdivided, depending on the issuebeing negotiated (e.g.
for the toy domain in sec-tion 4.3, there are specializations for origin, func-tion, and utility of the toy).request info.priority Which issue is the most impor-tant to you?request info.value How much money will I get if Igive you this?request info.preference What do you think aboutthe blue color?request info.fact What will happen to the flowers ifthe temperature gets higher?provide info.priority I care most about tempera-ture.provide info.value You get $50 more if you agree tolower the temperature by one degree.provide info.preference I like design A.provide info.fact (just a simple fact, neither prefer-ence nor priority nor value) So one of them willbe yours and one mine.3.3 Information Comparisonnote similarities We both need the temperature tobe relatively low.note differences It seems that you want design Aand I prefer design C.project othersposition So you want an equal distri-bution of rent.3.4 Clarifications/Confirmationsrequest clarification I am not getting any moremoney with more customers coming in?provide clarification Not necessarily.request confirmation Did you say 68 degrees?self clarification (when the speaker tries to expandon her ideas) Because when I thought temper-ature, I was thinking temperature for the prod-ucts, not temperature for the atmosphere.3.5 OfferWe use the following format for an offer:offer.?type?.?beneficiary?.?directness?.
For a ?re-quest offer?, generally only the directness field isused.Type can take the following values: ?standard?,?tradeoff?, ?compromise?, ?concession?, and ?re-traction?.
The difference between ?compromise?and ?concession?
is subtle.
?Concession?
meansthat ?I don?t really want to do this but I?ll do it be-cause there is no other way?.
?Compromise?
is likesplitting the difference and it does not imply that thespeaker does not like the option.Beneficiary can be ?me?, ?you?, ?both?, ?else?,or ?null?.
By beneficiary we mean who the offer orargument would be good for (see also section 3.7).So for example, if one?s argument is ?it will be toocold for the customers?
then ?beneficiary=else?.Directness can be ?direct?
or ?indirect?.
An of-fer or argument is ?indirect?
when it needs to be in-ferred.
For example, when the grocer says ?well let?ssay there are lots of other local florists competing foryour prices?, she means that this is why advertisingis important, but this needs some kind of inference,so the argument is indirect.Below we can see examples of various types ofoffers (the beneficiary and directness dimensions areomitted for brevity).offer.standard How about 62 degrees?offer.tradeoff (between different issues) I?ll agreeon 64 degrees if you agree on design A.offer.compromise Well should we just say 50/50?offer.concession There is no other way so I agreeon 64 degrees.offer.retraction I changed my mind, I don?t want de-sign A.request offer What temperature do you suggest?2743.6 General Reactionaccept Okay, 62 degrees is fine.
or Yes, I said 62degrees.reject 62 degrees is too low for me.
or No, I didn?tsay that.acknowledge I see.Note that ?accept?
is used for accepting offers andconfirmation requests but also for agreement, for ex-ample, when one interlocutor agrees with the argu-ment of the other interlocutor.
?Reject?
is used forrejecting offers and confirmation requests but alsofor disagreement.3.7 ArgumentationAn argument follows the following format:?role?.?type?.?beneficiary?.?directness?.
The rolecan be ?provide argument?, ?attack argument?,?rebut argument?, ?undercut argument?, and ?ac-cept defeat?.
Beneficiary and directness are definedas in section 3.5.
Below we can see examples of dif-ferent argument roles.provide argument The temperature must be low formy flowers to stay fresh.attack argument (without necessarily providing acounter-argument) What you say does not makesense.rebut argument (provide a counter-argument) Yes,but my customers wouldn?t want to shop in sucha low temperature.undercut argument (invalidate an argument) Youdon?t need a low temperature in the shop.
Yourflowers can be refrigerated to stay fresh.accept defeat You are right, I could use a refriger-ator.We have identified the following argument types:ideology (what is ?right?
), logic, fairness, prece-dent, God?s will, promise for the future, honor, duty,identity, authority, refer to relationship, appeal tofeelings, social responsibility, assurance (abstractpromises), stories/metaphors, ordinance, design(aesthetics and functionality), effect/consequence,cost/means.
These types are mostly inspired by ourliterature review (see section 2.2), as well as our ob-servations in the domains that we used for develop-ing the annotation scheme.An example logical argument is ?my flowers needlow temperatures to stay fresh?.
An example argu-ment that appeals to fairness is ?I helped you lasttime so it?s fair to help me now?.
Arguments thatappeal to logic are more likely to appear in indi-vidualistic cultures.
Arguments that appeal to duty,honor, social responsibility, ideology, and fairnessare more common in collectivistic cultures.
Sto-ries/metaphors are very common in Arab cultures(Koch, 1983; Zaharna, 1995).3.8 Other Speech Actsrepetition I prefer design A. I said design A.heavy commitment $50 is all I can give, not a centmore.weak commitment Let?s assume that we agree onthis and continue.meta task discussion (try to figure out the task) Youare the grocer and I am the florist.self contradiction Speaker A: I like design C.Speaker A (later): Design C is terrible.show concern I understand that this solution wouldnot be good for you.putdown You are stubborn.show frustration I?m really sick and tired of this.threat If you don?t accept my offer I won?t do busi-ness with you again.miscellaneous Yes, flowers are beautiful.4 Applications of the Annotation Schemeon Various CorporaIn order to prove its generality we applied this cod-ing scheme to three different negotiation domains.4.1 Florist-Grocer DomainThe first domain was dialogues between Americanundergraduates playing the role of a florist and a gro-cer who share a retail space.
The dialogues werecollected by Laurie R. Weingart, Jeanne M. Brett,and Mary C. Kern at Northwestern University.
Theflorist and the grocer negotiate on four issues: thedesign of the space, the temperature, the rent, andtheir advertising policy.
Using the above codingscheme we annotated 21 dialogues.
Example anno-tations of speech acts are given in Figure 1, as wellas the examples in section 3, above.The final scheme was the result of several cy-cles of dialogue annotations and revisions of thecoding manual.
We used the florist-grocer annota-tions to measure inter-annotator reliability betweenfour annotators.
In three cycles of annotation, we275measured agreement on speech acts only and com-plex speech acts were unified, for example, all the?provide argument?
are treated as a single category.Krippendorff?s ?
(Krippendorff, 1980) rose from0.375 to 0.463 to 0.565.2After analyzing these results we noticed that themain problems in terms of inter-annotator relia-bility were the confusion between ?accept?
and?acknowledge?
(e.g.
the utterance ?yeah?
couldbe either, depending on the context), and theconfusion between ?provide argument.logic?, ?pro-vide argument.effect?, and ?provide info?.
So werevised the manual as follows: in order for some-thing to be annotated as ?accept?
vs. ?acknowledge?we need to look forward in the dialogue; if an ar-gument?s type is both ?logic?
and ?effect?
then ?ef-fect?
supersedes; ?provide info?
is just provision ofa piece of information with no argumentative role.4.2 SASO DomainIn this second domain (Traum et al, 2008), we an-notated role-play dialogues in English between a USArmy captain and a Spanish doctor in Iraq.
We haveannotated five dialogues so far.
An example is givenin Figure 2.4.3 Toy-Naming DomainFinally, in the third domain groups of four peoplenegotiate in English, Spanish, and Arabic about howto name a toy.
The dialogues were part of the UTEP-ICT Cross-Cultural dialogue corpus (Herrera et al,2010).
We have annotated five dialogues in Englishand three in Arabic so far, and are currently work-ing on Spanish.
An example is given in Figure 3.The ?redirect topic?
act was added based on this do-main (to cover cases where one person consciouslyredirects the group?s attention to the task when theydrift off-topic for an extended period of time).
Also,we added three domain-specific specializations of?provide info.fact?
and ?request info.fact?
: ?pro-vide info.fact.function?
(discussion about what onecan do with the toy or things that it does or has, e.g.a secret compartment); ?provide info.fact.origin?
(where the toy was manufactured or bought); ?re-quest info.fact.utility?
(a person prompts the othersfor ideas or examples of how the toy could be usedand marketed).2Krippendorff?s ?
is 0.460 in the first cycle if we excludeone of the annotators who annotated only 72% of the items.5 DiscussionWe believe that this annotation scheme can be usedfor analyzing and modeling the fine differences ofargumentation and negotiation styles, cross-task,and cross-culture, as well as providing a basis forartificial agents to engage in differentiated negotia-tion behavior.Our first use of the annotated florist-grocer di-alogues was for learning dialogue policies usingsimulated users and Reinforcement Learning (RL)(Georgila and Traum, 2011).
To facilitate RL wehad to make a few simplifications, for example, fo-cus only on the temperature issue.
In particular, webuilt policies for individualistic vs. altruistic florists(and grocers).
Our results in simulation were consis-tent with our reward functions, i.e.
the florist individ-ualist agreed on low temperatures while interactingwith the grocer altruist, the florist altruist agreed onhigh temperatures vs. the grocer individualist, etc.Details are given in (Georgila and Traum, 2011).6 ConclusionWe presented a novel annotation scheme for cross-cultural argumentation and persuasion dialogues.This scheme is based on a review of literature oncross-cultural argumentation and persuasion, andadaptation of existing coding schemes on negotia-tion.
Our annotation scheme is also based on our ob-servations from its application to coding both two-party and multi-party negotiation dialogues in threedifferent domains, and is general enough to be ap-plicable to different domains with minor or no mod-ifications at all.
Furthermore, dialogues annotatedwith the scheme have been used to successfully learnculture-specific dialogue policies for argumentationand persuasion.AcknowledgmentsThis research was funded by a MURI award throughARO grant number W911NF-08-1-0301.
We aregrateful to Laurie R. Weingart, Jeanne M. Brett,and Mary C. Kern who provided us with the florist-grocer dialogues, and to David A. Herrera, David G.Novick, and Dusan Jan who developed the UTEP-ICT corpus, as well as Hussein Sadek for transcrip-tions and translations of the Arabic dialogues.276ReferencesJ.M.
Brett and M.J. Gelfand.
2006.
A cultural analysis ofthe underlying assumptions of negotiation theory.
InFrontiers of Negotiation Research, L. Thompson (Ed),pages 173?201.
Psychology Press.H.
Bunt.
2006.
Dimensions in dialogue act annotation.In Proc.
of LREC.P.J.
Carnevale, D.G.
Pruitt, and S.D.
Seilheimer.
1981.Looking and competing: Accountability and visual ac-cess in integrative bargaining.
Journal of Personalityand Social Psychology, 40(1):111?120.J.
Cassell.
2009.
Culture as social culture: Being en-culturated in human-computer interaction.
In Proc.
ofHCI International.R.B.
Cialdini.
1998.
Influence: The psychology of per-suasion, Revised.
Collins.R.
Cohen.
1987.
Analyzing the structure of argumen-tative discourse.
Computational Linguistics, 13(1-2):11?24.M.G.
Core and J.F.
Allen.
1997.
Coding dialogs with theDAMSL annotation scheme.
In Proc.
of the AAAI FallSymposium on Communicative Actions in Humans andMachines.P.M.
Dung.
1995.
On the acceptability of arguments andits fundamental role in nonmonotonic reasoning, logicprogramming and n-person games.
Artificial Intelli-gence, 77(2):321?357.S.
George, I. Zukerman, and M. Niemann.
2007.
In-ferences, suppositions and explanatory extensions inargument interpretation.
User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, 17(5):439?474.K.
Georgila and D. Traum.
2011.
Learning culture-specific dialogue models from non culture-specificdata.
In Proc.
of HCI International.F.
Grasso, A. Cawsey, and R. Jones.
2000.
Dialectical ar-gumentation to solve conflicts in advice giving: A casestudy in the promotion of healthy nutrition.
Interna-tional Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 53:1077?1115.S.
Han and S. Shavitt.
1994.
Persuasion and culture:Advertising appeals in individualistic and collectivisticsocieties.
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,30:326?350.D.
Herrera, D. Novick, D. Jan, and D. Traum.
2010.
TheUTEP-ICT cross-cultural multiparty multimodal dia-log corpus.
In Proc.
of the LREC Multimodal CorporaWorkshop: Advances in Capturing, Coding and Ana-lyzing Multimodality (MMC).J.
Katzav and C. Reed.
2004.
On argumentation schemesand the natural classification of arguments.
Argumen-tation, 18(2):239?259.M.C.
Kern, J.M.
Brett, and L.R.
Weingart.
2005.
Get-ting the floor: Motive-consistent strategy and individ-ual outcomes in multi-party negotiations.
Group De-cision and Negotiation, 14:21?41.B.
Johnstone Koch.
1983.
Presentation as proof: Thelanguage of Arabic rhetoric.
Anthropological Linguis-tics, 25(1):47?60.K.
Krippendorff.
1980.
Content analysis: An introduc-tion to its methodology, chapter 12.
Sage, BeverlyHills, CA.P.
Paruchuri, N. Chakraborty, R. Zivan, K. Sycara,M.
Dudik, and G. Gordon.
2009.
POMDP based ne-gotiation modeling.
In Proc.
of the IJCAI Workshop onModeling Intercultural Collaboration and Negotiation(MICON).K.
Peng and R.E.
Nisbett.
1999.
Culture, dialectics,and reasoning about contradiction.
American Psychol-ogist, 54(9):741?754.P.
Piwek.
2008.
Presenting arguments as fictive dia-logue.
In Proc.
of the ECAI Workshop on Computa-tional Models of Natural Argument (CMNA).J.L.
Pollock.
1995.
Cognitive Carpentry: A blueprint forhow to build a person.
Bradford Books, MIT Press.H.
Prakken.
2008.
A formal model of adjudication dia-logues.
Artificial Intelligence and Law, 16:305?328.D.G.
Pruitt and S.A. Lewis.
1975.
Development of in-tegrative solutions in bilateral negotiation.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology, 31(4):621?633.C.
Rose?
and C. Torrey.
2004.
DReSDeN: Towards atrainable tutorial dialogue manager to support negoti-ation dialogues for learning and reflection.
In Proc.
ofITS.C.L.
Sidner.
1994.
An artificial discourse language forcollaborative negotiation.
In Proc.
of the NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence.K.
Sycara.
1990.
Persuasive argumentation in negotia-tion.
Theory and Decision, 28(3):203?242.D.
Traum, J. Rickel, S. Marsella, and J. Gratch.
2003.Negotiation over tasks in hybrid human-agent teamsfor simulation-based training.
In Proc.
of AAMAS.D.
Traum, S. Marsella, J. Gratch, J. Lee, and A. Hartholt.2008.
Multi-party, multi-issue, multi-strategy negotia-tion for multi-modal virtual agents.
In Proc.
of IVA.D.
Traum.
2009.
Models of culture for virtual humanconversation.
In Proc.
of HCI International.D.
Walton, C. Reed, and F. Macagno.
2008.
Argumenta-tion Schemes.
Cambridge University Press.R.S.
Zaharna.
1995.
Understanding cultural preferencesof Arab communication partners.
Public Relations Re-view, 21(3):241?255.I.
Zukerman.
2001.
An integrated approach for generat-ing arguments and understanding rejoinders.
In Proc.of the International Conference on User Modeling.277AppendixFlorist: How does that work for you?
(request info.preference)Grocer: Well, personally for the grocery I think it is better to have a higher temperature.
(pro-vide argument.logic.me.indirect)Grocer: Just because I want the customers to feel comfortable.
(elaborate)Florist: Okay.
(acknowledge)Grocer: And also if it is warm, people are more apt to buy cold drinks to keep themselves comfortable andcool.
(elaborate)Florist: That?s true.
(accept)Florist: But what about your products staying fresh?
Don?t they have to stay fresh or otherwise?
(re-but argument.logic.you.direct)Figure 1: Example annotated dialogue with speech acts in the florist-grocer domain.Captain: I think if you just made the compromise, we could provide so much for you if you just agreed tolet us move the clinic.
(offer.standard.you.direct)Doctor: Look I need to get back to my patients.
They?re dying now.
They?re dying.
(show frustration)Captain: They wouldn?t be dying if you let us move the clinic to the US Army base with the additionalmedical support.
(provide argument.logic.else.direct)Doctor: Well they wouldn?t be dying if I was there.
(rebut argument.logic.else.direct)Doctor: Why don?t you provide us with additional medical support and get out of our lives?
(re-quest offer.direct)Figure 2: Example annotated dialogue with speech acts in the SASO domain.Speaker 3: Blue pal.
(offer.standard.null.direct)Speaker 4: Blue pal.
(acknowledge)Speaker 2: Blue pal.
(acknowledge)Speaker 4: That sounds pretty good.
I actually like the idea.
(accept)Speaker 1: What if it?s a different color?
(provide argument.logic.null.direct)Speaker 2: Yeah, what if it?s like pink and purple.
.
.
(elaborate)Speaker 4: Uh I like blue pal.
I think that one?s pretty cool.
.
.
(provide info.preference)Speaker 2: Something pal like your pal.
(offer.standard.null.direct)Speaker 4: Blue pal the singing singing pal the singing pal the singing and dancing buddy.
The beast youdon?t want to get angry.
(offer.standard.null.direct)Speaker 2: That?s too long.
(reject)Speaker 2: It has to be short.
(provide argument.logic.null.direct)Speaker 1: Furball.
(offer.standard.null.direct)Speaker 4: A short name... Actually a good really long name might work because everything out there isshort... (rebut argument.logic.null.direct)Figure 3: Example annotated dialogue with speech acts in the toy-naming domain.278
