How Comparable are Parallel Corpora?Measuring the Distribution of General Vocabulary and ConnectivesBruno Cartoni Sandrine Zufferey Thomas Meyer Andrei Popescu-BelisLinguistics DepartmentUniversity of Geneva2, rue de CandolleCH ?
1211 Geneva 4Linguistics DepartmentUniversity of Geneva2, rue de CandolleCH ?
1211 Geneva 4Idiap Research InstituteRue Marconi 19CH ?
1920 MartignyIdiap Research InstituteRue Marconi 19CH ?
1920 Martigny{bruno.cartoni|sandrine.zufferey}@unige.ch {thomas.meyer|andrei.popescu-belis}@idiap.chAbstractIn this paper, we question thehomogeneity of a large parallel corpusby measuring the similarity betweenvarious sub-parts.
We compare resultsobtained using a general measure oflexical similarity based on ?2 and bycounting the number of discourseconnectives.
We argue that discourseconnectives provide a more sensitivemeasure, revealing differences that arenot visible with the general measure.
Wealso provide evidence for the existenceof specific characteristics definingtranslated texts as opposed to non-translated ones, due to a universaltendency for explicitation.1 IntroductionComparable corpora are often considered as asolution to compensate for the lack of parallelcorpora.
Indeed, parallel corpora are stillperceived as the gold standard resource for manymultilingual natural language processingapplications, such as statistical machinetranslation.The aim of this paper is to assess thehomogeneity of the widely used Europarlparallel corpus (Koehn 2005) by comparing adistributional measure of lexical similarity withresults focused on a more specific measure, thefrequency of use of discourse connectives.Various perspectives can be taken to assess thehomogeneity of this corpus.
First, we evaluatethe (dis)similarities between translated andoriginal language (Experiment 1) and then the(dis)similarities between texts translated fromdifferent source languages (Experiment 2).Analyzing the use of discourse connectivessuch as because and since in English highlightsimportant differences between translated andoriginal texts.
The analysis also revealsimportant differences when comparing, for agiven language, texts that have been translatedfrom various source languages.
The differentdistribution of connectives in original vs.translated French, as well as across varieties ofFrench translated from various source languages(English, German, Italian and Spanish), are allthe more intriguing that they are not matched bya distributional difference of the generalvocabulary in these corpora.
We will indeedshow that a well-known method (Kilgarriff2001) designed to compare corpora finds that theoriginal French and the various translatedportions of Europarl are rather similar,regardless of their source language.The paper is structured as follows: we firstpresent related work on the characterization oftranslated text (Section 2).
In Section 3, weargue that analyzing discourse connectives shedsnew light on text (dis)similarity.
Section 4presents the Europarl parallel corpus and its sub-parts that have been used in our studies, as wellas the methodology and measures that have beenapplied to assess text similarities.
Section 5presents our main findings and Section 6discusses our results, drawing methodologicalconclusions about the use of parallel corpora.78Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Building and Using Comparable Corpora, pages 78?86,49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Portland, Oregon, 24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational Linguistics2 Previous WorkExisting studies on translated corpora are mainlydesigned to automatically identify the presenceof so-called ?translationese?
or ?third code?, inother words, a text style deemed to be specific totranslated texts, as in (Baroni and Bernardini2005) or in (Ilisei et al 2010).
In the literature,many possible characteristics of translationesehave been identified, such as those listed in(Baker 1996): translations are simpler thanoriginal texts (Laviosa-Braithwaite 1996);translations are more explicit than original textsdue to an increase of cohesion markers (Blum-Kulka 1986); and the items that are unique in thetarget system (i.e.
that do not have exactequivalents in the source language) are under-represented in translations (Tirkkonen-Condit2000).In the field of natural language processing,several studies on parallel corpora have shownthat when building a statistical machinetranslation system, knowing which texts havebeen originally written in a given language andwhich ones are translations has an impact on thequality of the system (Ozdowska 2009).
Arecent study using machine learning hasconfirmed the universal of simplification as afeature of translated texts (Ilisei et al2010).Corpora can be compared using similaritymeasures.
Most of these measures are based onlexical frequency.
Kilgariff (2001) provides acomprehensive review of the different methodsfor computing similarity.In this study, we chose to use the CBDFmeasure (Chi-by-degrees-of-freedom), asproposed in (Kilgariff 1997), to assess thesimilarity of our sub-corpora, as explained inSection 4.3.
We compare this measure withanother marker of text diversity (connectives), asexplained in the following section.3 Discourse Connectives as Markers ofText DiversityDiscourse connectives like but, because or whileform a functional category of lexical items thatare very frequently used to mark coherencerelations such as explanation or contrastbetween units of text or discourse (e.g.
Halliday& Hassan 1976; Mann & Thomson 1992; Knott& Dale 1994; Sanders 1997).
One of the uniqueproperties of discourse connectives is that therelation they convey can in many cases beinferred even when they are removed, asillustrated in (1) and (2):1 Max fell because Jack pushed him.2 Max fell.
Jack pushed him.The causal relation conveyed by because in(1) is also inferable when the connective isabsent by using world knowledge about thepossible relation between the fact of pushingsomeone and this person?s fall in (2).
In otherwords, contrary to most other lexical items,connectives can be used or left out withoutproducing ungrammatical results or losingimportant aspects of meaning.
At a macro-textual level, it is however clear that a textcontaining no connective at all would becomerather difficult to understand.
Several psycho-linguistic studies have indeed stressed the role ofconnectives for processing (Millis & Just 1994;Noordman & Blijzer 2000).
But the point wewant to make here is that in most texts ordiscourses, some coherence relations areconveyed by the use of connectives while othersare not, depending on what the author/speakerfeels necessary to mark explicitly.Another consequence of the fact thatconnectives are optional is that their use intranslation can vary tremendously between thesource and the target texts.
Studies that haveexamined at the use of connectives in translationhave indeed found that connectives were oftenremoved or added in the target texts, and that thetype of coherence relation conveyed wassometimes even modified due to the actualchoice of connectives in the target system(Altenberg 1986; Baker 1993; Lamiroy 1994;Halverson 2004).
For all these reasons,discourse connectives appear to be particularlyinteresting to investigate in relation to corpushomogeneity.In this study, we focus more particularly onthe category of causal connectives, that is to sayconnectives such as because and since inEnglish.
This particular category seemedespecially appropriate for our purposes for anumber of reasons.
First, causal connectivesform a well-defined cluster in many languagesand can be studied comprehensively.
Second,causal relations are amongst the most basic ones79for human cognition and in consequence causalconnectives are widely used in almost all texttypes (Sanders & Sweetser 2009).
Lastly, causalconnectives have been found to be more volatilein translation than other categories, such as forexample concessive connectives like but,however, etc.
(Halverson 2004; Altenberg 1986).From a quantitative perspective, functionwords are usually very frequent whereas mostcontent words tend to be in the tail of thedistribution.
This provides another reason totreat connectives as a key feature for assessingtext similarities.4 Corpora and Methodology4.1 CorporaOur analysis is based on the Europarl corpus(Koehn 2005), a resource initially designed totrain statistical machine translation systems.Europarl is a multilingual corpus that containsthe minutes of the European Parliament.
At theparliament, every deputy usually speaks inhis/her own language, and all statements aretranscribed, and then translated into the otherofficial languages of the European Union (a totalof 11 languages for this version of the corpus ?version 5).
Based on this data, several parallelbilingual corpora can be extracted, but caution isnecessary because the exact status of every text,original or translated, is not always clearlystated.
However, for a number of statements, aspecific tag provides this information.From this multilingual corpus, we extractedfor our first experiment two parallel and?directional?
corpora (En-Fr and Fr-En).
By?directional?
we mean that the original andtranslated texts are clearly identified in thesecorpora.
Namely, in the English-French subset,the original speeches were made in English(presumably mostly by native speakers), andthen translated into French, while the reverse istrue for French-English.
Still, for manyapplications, these would appear as twoundifferentiated subsets of an English-Frenchparallel corpus.Since language tags are scarcely present, weautomatically gathered all the tag information inall the language-specific files, correcting all thetags and discarding texts with contradictoryinformation.
Therefore, these extracteddirectional corpora are made of discontinuoussentences, because of the very nature of thismultilingual corpus.
In one single debate, eachspeaker speaks in his/her own language, andwhen extracting statements of one particularlanguage, discourse cohesion across speakers islost.
However, this has no incidence at theglobal level on the quantitative distribution ofconnectives.We have focused our investigation on theyears 1996 to 1999 of the Europarl corpus.Indeed, statistical investigations and informationgathered at the European Parliament revealedthat the translation policy had changed over theyears.
The 1996-1999 period appeared to containthe most reliable translated data of the wholecorpus.For Experiment 1, we extracted two paralleldirectional corpora made of two languages ?French and English ?
in order to comparetranslated and original texts in both languages,as shown in Figure 1.Table 1 gives the number of tokens in theEnglish-French and in the French-Englishparallel directional corpora.Parallel corpus Token in ST Token in TTEnglish-French (EF) 1,412,316 1,583,775French-English (FE) 1,257,879 1,188,923Table 1: Number of tokens in Source Texts (ST)and Translated Texts (TT) of the paralleldirectional corpora.Following the same methodology, we extractedfor Experiment 2 other parallel directionalFigure 1: Parallel and comparable corporaextracted from EuroparlParallel directional corporaComparable corporaOriginalEnglishOriginalFrenchTranslatedFrenchTranslatedEnglish80corpora, again with French as a target language(also from the 1996-1999 period), as shown inFigure 2.
Table 2 presents the sizes of these fouradditional comparable corpora.Parallel corpus Token in ST Token in TTGerman-French (DF) 1,254,531 1,516,634Italian-French (IF) 552,242 624,534Spanish-French (SF) 597,607 633,918Table 2: Number of tokens in Source Texts (ST)and Translated Texts (TT) of the three additionalparallel directional corpora of translated French.These parallel directional corpora have beenused as comparable corpora in our study becausethey are written in the same language and are ofthe same genre, but do not have the same?status?, since some are original texts whileothers are translations, as shown in .
Moreover,for comparison purposes, we have also used asub-part of Europarl which was originallyproduced in French (noted OF), correspondingto the French part of the French-English corpusdescribed in Table 1All the experiments described below arebased on these comparable corpora, i.e.
on thetranslated vs. original corpus (for French andEnglish) and on the different corpora oftranslated French (with Italian, English, Spanishand German as source languages).4.2 First Measure: CBDF MeasureFollowing a proposal by Kilgarriff (2001), whocriticizes a number of simpler techniques, wehave measured corpus similarity by computingthe ?2 statistic over the 500 most frequent wordsfrom the two corpora to be compared, whichwere limited to 200,000 words each, so thatcomparison with the values given by Kilgarriffwas possible.
The value was normalized by thenumber of degrees of freedom, which is (500?1) ?
(2?1) = 499, hence its name.
As shown byKilgarriff with artificially designed corpora, forwhich the similarity level was known inadvance, the ?2 statistic is a reliable indicator ofsimilarity.
Moreover, Kilgarriff (2001: Table 10,page 260) provides a table with the ?2 values forall 66 pairs of 200,000-word corpora selectedfrom 12 English corpora, which we will use forcomparison below.
The table also lists internalhomogeneity values for each corpus, obtained byaveraging the ?2 statistic over each 200,000-word corpus split several times in half.
In fact,as the same method is used for computing bothsimilarity and homogeneity, only 100,000-wordfragments are used for similarity, as stated byKilgarriff.The CBDF similarity values between100,000-word subsets of Original French (OF),French translated from English (EF), fromItalian (IF), from German (DF), and fromSpanish (SF) are shown in Table 4 below.Taking OF vs. EF as an example, these valuesare computed by summing up, for all of the mostfrequent 500 words in OF+EF, the differencebetween the observed and the expected numberof occurrences in each of OF and EF, moreprecisely (o ?
e)2 / e, and then dividing the sumby 499.
The expected number is simply theaverage of OF and EF occurrences, which is thebest guess given the observations.
The lower theresult, the closer the two corpora are consideredto be, in terms of lexical distribution, as shownby Kilgarriff (2001).For measuring homogeneity, we sliced eachcorpus in 10 equal parts, and computed the scoreby randomly building 10 different corpusconfigurations and calculating the average of thevalues.4.3 Second Measure: Counting ConnectivesAs explained above, we focused our experimentson comparing frequencies of causal connectives.For French, our list of items included parce que,puisque, car, and ?tant donn?
que.
For English,Figure 2: Parallel and comparable corporafor Translated FrenchParallel directional corporaComparable corporaOriginalEnglishOriginalItalianTrans-latedFrenchOriginalGermanOriginalSpanishTrans-latedFrenchTransl-latedFrenchTrans-latedFrench81we included because, since, and given that1.
Inthe case of since, we manually annotated its twomeanings in order to distinguish its causal usesfrom its temporal ones, and retained only itscausal uses in our counts.To count the number of occurrences for eachcausal connective in each sub-part of the corpus,we first pre-processed the corpora to transformeach connective as one word-form (e.g.
?tantdonn?
que became ?tantdonn?que, and puisqu?became puisque.).
Then, we counted eachconnective, and normalized the figures to obtaina ratio of connectives per 100,000 tokens.Moreover, when comparing French sub-corpora translated from different sourcelanguages, we also computed the rank of eachconnective in the frequency list extracted fromeach corpus.
Comparing these ranks providedimportant information about their respectivefrequencies.We have found that the frequency of eachconnective does not vary significantlythroughout the corpus (years 1996-1999), whichtends to prove that the use of connectives doesnot depend crucially on the style of a particularspeaker or translator.5 ResultsThis section presents the results of the CBDFmeasure for each corpus (Section 5.1), andshows how the frequencies of connectives revealdifferences between translated and original texts(Section 5.2) and between texts translated fromvarious source languages (Section 5.3).5.1 Text Similarity according to CBDFFor Experiment 1, we have compared thedifferences between original and translated texts,for English and French.
The values of CBDFsimilarity resulting from this comparison areshown in Table 3.
Compared to the differentscores computed by Kilgarriff, these scoresindicate that the two pairs of corpora are bothquite similar.1The English causal connective for is moredifficult to address because of its ambiguity with thehomographic preposition.
However, on a sample of 500tokens of for randomly extracted from Europarl, we foundonly two occurrences of the connective for, leading us toexclude this connective from our investigation.CBDFOriginal English ?
Translated English 13.28Original French ?
Translated French 12.28Table 3: CBDF between original and translatedtextsThe similarities between sub-corpora ofFrench translated from different sourcelanguages (Experiment 2) are shown in Table 4.The values comparing the same portion (e.g.OF/OF) indicate the homogeneity score of therespective sub-corpus.OF EF DF IF SFOF 2.64EF 6.00 3.34DF 5.11 4.83 2.74IF 4.88 6.30 4.99 2.86SF 5.34 5.43 5.36 4.43 2.22Table 4: Values of CBDF (?2 statisticnormalized by degrees of freedom) for all pairsof source-specific 200,000-word subsets fromEuroparl.
The lower the value, the more similarthe subsets.Looking at the values in Table 4, we can seethat the similarity score between OF and EF is6.00, which, compared to Kilgarriff?s values forBritish corpora, is lower than all but two of the66 pairs of corpora he compared.
Most of thevalues observed by Kilgarriff are in fact between20 and 40, and the similarity we found for OFvs.
EF is, for instance, in the same range as theone for the journal The Face vs.
The DailyMirror, a tabloid, and higher than the similarityof two broadsheet newspapers (i.e., they get alower CBDF value).
Therefore, we can concludethat OF and EF are very similar from a worddistribution point of view.As for the other pairs, they are all in the samerange of similarity, again much more similarthan the corpora cited in Kilgarriff?s Table 10.Regarding internal comparisons, OF/EF appearsas the second most dissimilar pair, precededonly by IF/EF (French translated from Italian vs.from English).
The most similar pair is OriginalFrench vs. French translated from Italian, whichis not surprising given that the two languages areclosely related.
Also similar to OF/IF are theIF/SF and EF/DF pairs, reflecting the similarityof translations from related languages.82Homogeneity values are higher than similarityvalues (the ?2 scores are lower).
These valuesare again comparable, albeit clearly lower, thanthose found by Kilgarriff, and presumablyaccount for the lower variety of parliamentarydiscourse.
Still, these values are similar to thoseof the most homogeneous subset used byKilgarriff, the Dictionary of National Biography(1.86) or the Computergram (2.20).Figures on the distribution of connectives,presented in the next section, tend to show thatthese sub-corpora are however not as similar asthey may seem at a first view.5.2 Text Similarities Measured with theUse of Causal Connectives:Experiment 1In Experiment 1, we highlight the differences inthe use of causal connectives between originalEnglish and translated English.
Figure 3 showsthe discrepancy between the use of the sameconnectives in original and translated texts.Among these connectives, since is the only trulyambiguous word.
We have therefore alsoevaluated the proportion of causal uses of sinceamong all the uses of the word since.
In originalEnglish, this proportion is 31.8% and doubles intranslated English to reach 67.7%.Figure 3: Ratio connectives/100,000 tokens inoriginal and translated English.These figures show that original andtranslated texts differ, at least in terms of thenumber of causal connectives they contain.While because seems equally used in originaland translated English, since and given that areused three times more frequently in translatedthan in original texts.
This variability is alsonoticeable when comparing original andtranslated uses of French connectives, as shownin Figure 4.Figure 4: Ratio connectives/100?000 tokens inoriginal and translated French.For French, while car seems to be equallyused in both sub-parts of the corpus, parce queis used twice less frequently in translated than inoriginal texts.
This discrepancy is even bigger inthe case of puisque, which is used five times lessfrequently in translated than in original texts.The reverse phenomenon is observed for ?tantdonn?
que, which is used four times morefrequently in translated than in original texts.By looking at the translation of everyconnective, we were able to count the number ofconnectives inserted in the target language, thatis to say when there was a connective in thetarget system but no connective in the originaltext.
Conversely, we have also counted thenumber of connectives removed in the targettext, when a connective in the source languagewas not translated at all.
Overall, we found thatconnectives were inserted much more often thanremoved during the process of translation.
In thecase of English as a target language, 65connectives were inserted while 35 were83removed.
In the case of French, 46 connectiveswere inserted while 11 were removed.5.3 Text similarities measured by the use ofcausal connectives: Experiment 2When comparing the number of occurrences ofFrench causal connectives across texts translatedfrom different languages, the differences arestriking.
Indeed, every source language seems toincrease the use of one specific connective in theFrench translations.Figure 5 presents the ratio of connectives per100?000 token.
The data compares the use ofconnectives in French translated from English,Italian, Spanish and German.Figure 5: Connectives per 100,000 tokens inFrench texts translated from various sourcelanguages (for each connective, from left to rightOF, EF, IF, DF, SF)Table 5 provides the rank of every connectivein the word frequency list (sorted by decreasingfrequency) computed for each sub-corpus.
Greycells indicate the most frequent connective ineach sub-corpus.OF EF IF DF SFparce que 115 292 99 159 87car 136 172 201 82 85puisque 235 1070 601 886 790?tant donn?
que 3882 1368 2104 1450 459Table 5: Rank of the connectives in wordfrequency list for each corpus.
Note that theorder varies with the source language.These figures show that the distribution ofevery connective differs radically according tothe source language.
Every source languageseems to increase the use of one specificconnective.
When German is the sourcelanguage, car is used twice more often thanwhen English or Italian are the sourcelanguages.
When Italian is the source language,parce que is used twice as often and whenEnglish is the source language, ?tant donn?
queis again used twice as often.
Overall, puisque isthe only connective that does not seem to beenhanced by any of the source languages, whichconfirms some prior linguistic analyses of thisitem, showing that puisque does not have exactequivalents in other close languages (Degand2004; Zufferey to appear).6 DiscussionWe have compared the use of discourseconnectives in different sub-parts of theEuroparl parallel corpus with the use of generalvocabulary, as computed by a measure of lexicalhomogeneity.
Our main finding is that eventhough the lexical measure showed the similarityof these sub-parts, the use of discourseconnectives varied tremendously between thevarious sub-parts of our corpus.One of the reasons why connectives showmore variability than many other lexical items isthat they are almost always optional.
In otherwords, as argued in Section 3, for everyindividual use of a connective, the translator hasthe option to use another connective in the targetlanguage or to leave the coherence relation itconveys implicit.
Coherence marking istherefore a global rather than a local textualstrategy.Given that connectives can be used or left outwithout producing ungrammatical results,studying their variability between comparablecorpora provides interesting indications about84their global homogeneity.
The significantvariability that we report between comparable(monolingual) sub-parts of the Europarl corpusindicates that they are not as homogeneous asglobal lexical measures like the CBDF tend toindicate.
In other words, the various sub-parts ofthe corpus are not equivalents of one another forall purposes, and should not be used as suchwithout caution.
These differences werenoticeable both by the different number of everyconnective used in every sub-part of the corpus,but also by the rather different frequency rankthat was measured for every one of them in thesesame sub-parts.From a translation perspective, our study alsoprovides some further confirmation for theexistence of specific characteristics that definetranslated texts (i.e.
?translationese?
or ?thirdcode?).
More specifically, our studycorroborates the explicitation hypothesis (Blum-Kulka 1986), positing that translated texts aremore explicit than original ones due to anincrease of cohesion markers.
Connectives arepart of the lexical markers that contribute totextual coherence, and we found that they areindeed more numerous in translated than inoriginal texts.
For English as a target language,translators have inserted twice as manyconnectives as they have removed.
For French,this proportion raises to four times moreinsertions than omissions.However, our data also indicates that thesource language has an important influence onthe nature of its translation.
Indeed, for the useof connectives, we report important variationsbetween texts translated into French fromvarious source languages.
More interestinglystill, every source language triggered the use ofone specific connective over the others.
Thisconnective was always specific to one particularsource language.It is also noteworthy that the similaritybetween texts translated into French, asmeasured with the CBDF, is greater when thesource languages are typologically related.
Inour corpora of translated French, we found thattexts were more similar when comparing theportion translated from Spanish and Italian(Romance languages) and when comparing textstranslated from English and German (Germaniclanguages).
This result makes intuitive sense andprovides further confirmation of the reliability ofthis measure to assess global similarity betweenportions of texts.7 ConclusionThe Europarl corpus is mostly used in NLPresearch without taking into account thedirection of translation, in other words, withoutknowing which texts were originally producedin one language and which ones are translations.The experiments reported in this paper show thatthis status has a crucial influence of the nature oftexts and should therefore be considered.Moreover, we have shown that translated textsfrom different source languages are nothomogeneous either, therefore there is no uniquetranslationese, and we identified somecharacteristics that vary according to the sourcelanguage.Our study also indicates that global measuresof corpus similarity are not always sensitiveenough to detect all forms of lexical variation,notably in the use of discourse connectives.However, the variability observed in the use ofthese items should not be discarded, bothbecause of their rather frequent use and becausethey form an important aspect of textualstrategies involving cohesion.AcknowledgmentsThis study was partially funded by the SwissNational Science Foundation through theCOMTIS Sinergia project(www.idiap.ch/comtis).
The authors wouldparticularly like to thank Adam Kilgarriff for hisexplanations regarding the CBDF measure.ReferencesAltenberg Bengt.
1986.
Contrastive linking in spokenand written English.
In Tottie G. & B?cklund U.(Eds.
), English in Speech and writing: asymposium.
Uppsala, 13-40.Baker Mona.
1993.
In Other Words.
A coursebook ontranslation.
Routledge, London/New York.Baker Mona.
1996.
Corpus-based translation studies:The challenges that lie ahead.
In Somers H.
(Ed.
)Terminology, LSP and Translation.
Studies inlanguage engineering in honour of Juan C. Sager.John Benjamins, Amsterdam, 175-186.85Baroni Marco and Bernardini Silvia.
2006.
A newapproach to the study of translationese: Machine-learning the difference between original andtranslated text.
Literary and Linguistic Computing21(3).
259-274Degand Liesbeth.
2004.
Contrastive analyses,translation and speaker involvement: the case ofpuisque and aangezien.
In Achard, M. & Kemmer,S.
(Eds.
), Language, Culture and Mind.
TheUniversity of Chicago Press, Chicago, 251-270.Halliday Michael and Hasan Ruqaiya.
1976.
Cohesionin English.
Longman, LondonHalverson Sandra.
2004.
Connectives as a translationproblem.
In Kittel, H. et al (Eds.)
An InternationalEncyclopedia of Translation Studies.
Walter deGruyter, Berlin/New York, 562-572.Ilisei Iustina, Inkpen Diana, Corpas Pastor Gloria andMitkov Russlan.
2010 Identification ofTranslationese: A Machine Learning Approach.
InGelbukh, A.
(Ed), Computational Linguistics andIntelligent Text Processing Lecture Notes inComputer Science.
Springer, Berlin / Heidelberg,503-511Kilgarriff Adam.
2001.
Comparing Corpora.
Intl.Journal of Corpus Linguistics 6(1): 1-37.Kilgariff Adam.
1997.
Using word frequency lists tomeasure corpus homogeneity and similaritybetween corpora.
In Fifth ACL Workshop on VeryLarge Corpora, Beijing.Knott Alistair and Dale Robert.
1994.
Usinglinguistic phenomena to motivate a set ofcoherence relations.
Discourse processes 18(1),35-62.Koehn Philipp.
2005.
Europarl: A Parallel Corpus forStatistical Machine Translation, MT Summit 2005.Lamiroy Beatrice.
1994.
Pragmatic connectives andL2 acquisition.
The case of French and Dutch.Pragmatics 4(2), 183-201.Laviosa-Braithwaite Sara.
1996.
The EnglishComparable Corpus (ECC): A Resource and aMethodology for the Empirical Study ofTranslation.
PhD Thesis, Manchester, UMIST.Mann William and Thomson Sandra.
1992.Relational Discourse Structure: A Comparison ofApproaches to Structuring Text by 'Contrast'.
InHwang S. & Merrifield W.
(Eds.
), Language inContext: Essays for Robert E. Longacre.
SIL,Dallas, 19-45.Millis Keith & Just Marcel.
1994.
The influence ofconnectives on sentence comprehension.
Journalof Memory and Language 33 (1): 128-147.New Boris, Pallier Christophe, Brysbaert Marc, FerrLudovic and Holloway Royal.
2004.
Lexique~2: ANew French Lexical Database.
Behavior ResearchMethods, Instruments, & Computers, 36 (3): 516-524.Noordman Leo and de Blijzer Femke.
2000.
On theprocessing of causal relations.
In E. Couper-Kuhlen & B. Kortmann (Eds.)
Cause, Condition,Concession, Contrast.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.35-56.Ozdowska Sylvia.
2009.
Donn?es bilingues pour laTAS fran?ais-anglais : impact de la langue sourceet direction de traduction originales sur la qualit?de la traduction.
Proceedings of TraitementAutomatique des Langues Naturelles, TALN'09,Senlis, France.Sanders Ted.
1997.
Semantic and pragmatic sourcesof coherence: On the categorization of coherencerelations in context.
Discourse Processes 24: 119?147.Sanders Ted and Sweetser Eve (Eds) 2009.
CausalCategories in Discourse and Cognition.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin.Tirkkonen-Condit Sonja.
2000.
In search oftranslation universals: non-equivalence or?
unique ?
items in a corpus test.
Paper presentedat the UMIST/UCL Research Models inTranslation Studies Conference, Manchester, UK,April 2000.Zufferey Sandrine to appear.
?Car, parce que,puisque?
Revisited.
Three empirical studies onFrench causal connectives.
Journal of Pragmatics.86
