Proceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Expressions: from Parsing and Generation to the Real World (MWE 2011), pages 110?115,Portland, Oregon, USA, 23 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsStepwise Mining of Multi-Word Expressions in HindiR.
Mahesh K. SinhaIndian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, Indiasinharmk@gmail.comAbstractMulti-word expressions (MWEs) play animportant role in all tasks that involve natu-ral language processing.
MWEs in Hindiare quite varied and many of these are ofthe types that are not encountered in Eng-lish.
In this paper, we examine differenttypes of MWEs encountered in Hindi.Many of these have not received adequateattention of investigators.
For example,?vaalaa?
constructs, doublets (word-pairs),replication, and a variety of verb groupforms have not been explored as MWEs.We examine these MWEs from machinetranslation viewpoint.
Many of these arefrequently used in day-to-day conversa-tions and informal communication but arenot that frequently encountered in a formaltextual corpus.
Most of the conventionalstatistical methods for MWE identificationuse corpus with limited linguistic cues.These are found to be inadequate for de-tecting all types of MWEs that exist in reallife.
In this paper, we present a stepwisemethodology for mining Hindi MWEs us-ing linguistic knowledge.
Interpretation andrepresentation for some of these from ma-chine translation perspective have alsobeen explored.1 IntroductionThe identification and interpretation of multi-wordexpressions (MWEs) find application in almost allNLP tasks such as machine translation, informa-tion retrieval, question-answering etc.
These areparticularly helpful in parsing where the sequenceof words forming the MWE is treated as a singleword with a single part of speech (POS) tag.
MWEinformation has been used for word alignment task(Venkatapathy et al, 2006).
This is useful to lex-icographers for deciding entry into the dictionary.MWEs in Hindi are quite varied and many ofthese are of the types that are not encountered inEnglish.
No comprehensive work has been re-ported on Hindi MWE.
In the following section abrief survey of related work is given.
This is fol-lowed by a section on types of Hindi MWEs.
As-pects of MWE identification, extraction andinterpretation for Hindi are presented in section 4.Section 5 presents details of experimentation withresults and section 6 concludes our investigation.2 Related workBaldwin et al (2010) is an excellent review cover-ing almost all aspects of MWEs.
MWEs are cha-racterized by non-compositionality, non-substitutability and non-modifiability (Brundage etal.
1992).
Another definition of MWE is that it is?any phrase that is not entirely predictable on thebasis  of   standard  grammar rules  and  lexicalentries?
(http://mwe.stanford.edu/reading-group.html).The design of a general purpose automated MWEextractor is dominated by using association meas-ures such as point-wise mutual information andother statistical hypothesis tests (Church et al1990; Smadja 1993; Pecina 2008).
Superior resultshave been reported when a supervised classifier isused with multiple association measures (Pecina2008).
The association measure is extended to in-clude substitution to test semantic and statisticalidiomaticity (Lin 1999).
Moiron et al (2006) usetranslation ambiguity to determine non-compositionality of MWEs.For Hindi, there have been limited investigationson MWE extraction.
Venkatapathy et al (2005)considered N-V collocation extraction problemusing MaxEnt classifier with certain syntactic andsemantic features.
Mukerjee et al (2006) used POSprojection from English to Hindi with corpusalignment for extracting complex predicates.
Cha-krabarti et al (2008) present a method for extract-ing Hindi V+V compound verbs using linguisticfeatures.
Kunchukuttan et al (2008) present a me-thod for extracting compound nouns in Hindi using110statistical co-occurrence.
Sinha (2009b) use lin-guistic property of light verbs in extracting com-plex predicates using Hindi-English parallelcorpus.
All of these works have considered onlylimited aspects of Hindi MWE.
In this paper, wehave  considered almost all types of MWEs inHindi  and present method for their identificationusing linguistic features.3 Types of MWEs in HindiMulti-word expressions appear in a variety offorms in Hindi.
The  primary  criterion used indefining a MWE in this work is non-compositionality i.e.
the meaning of MWE is notcomposed purely on the meanings of the constitu-ent words (Baldin et al 2002).
From machinetranslation perspective, non-compositionality is ofprimary concern.
In the following subsections, weenumerate different types of MWEs in Hindi.3.1 Replicating wordsAll South Asian languages have replicating wordfeature (Abbi 1975, Abbi 1992) that exhibit non-compositionality property of MWE.
This is foundfor all parts of speech.
Some examples from Hindi(Sinha et.
al.
2005) are: ghar ghar {house house}?every house?
; ruk ruk {stop stop}?after stopping?
;baRii baRii {big big}  ?quite big?
; ek ek {one one};?every one?
or ?one by one?
; dhiire dhiire {slowslow} ?
(quite) slowly?
or ?gradually?
; Replicatingwords may also have a particle in between and themeaning changes.
Example: paani hi paani  (wateronly water) ?water all over?.
Another class ofMWE is where the replicating word is in singularform of the preceding word.
An example is: dinon-din (days-day) ?day by day?
or ?gradually?.It should be noted here that not all replicationsmake an MWE (see section 4).3.2 Doublets / pair of words,  Samaas andSandhiA pair of words that are antonym of each othermay form an MWE.
Example: din-raat (day night)?all the time?.
Yet another class is where the mean-ing of the doublet is usually a hyponym or a nearsynonym of the pair of the words.
Example: roji-roti (job bread) ?employment?.
When there is achange of gender in the pair of words, it mayrepresent a group.
Example: betaa-betii (son daugh-ter) ?issues?.
When the second word in the pair ofwords is a non-sensical word providing rhythm tothe group, the meaning is hyponym of the preced-ing word.
Examples: chaay-vaaya  {tea vaaya}?snacks?
; taix-viax {tax viax} ?tax etc?.Samaas (N+N, A+N) and Sandhi (means joiningor fusion of words) are Hindi grammatical con-structs at the morphological level and are borrowedconcepts from Sanskrit.
In Samaas, while combin-ing the two words, the intervening postpositionmarkers are deleted.
Samaas are of different kindsdepending upon the semantics of the constituentwords involved and their importance (head word)in the resulting combined word.
Examples: rasoi(cooking) +ghar(house) = rasoighar (house forcooking = kitchen); ganga (Ganges)+jal(water) =gangajal (water from Ganges).
Sandhi is a processby which two words in Hindi get co-joined to yielda single word.
This process could be recursivelyapplied and quite complex compositions with mul-tiple words are possible.
The words formed by theprocess of Sandhi and some of the Samaas, resultin a single word and as such cannot be called anMWE.
However, they are very large in number inHindi with innumerable combination of words.
It isnot practical to store all of them in a dictionary.Hence algorithms are designed to decompose theword into constituent words for interpretation.Thus, in a sense, it is the reverse process of MWE.3.3 Vaalaa morpheme constructsThe ?vaalaa?
Hindi morpheme may appear indifferent morphological forms as ?vaalaa?, ?vaalii?,?vaale?
or ?vaalo.M?.
All the constructs involving?vaalaa?
are candidates for MWE.
The multi-wordmay involve just the preceding word or both pre-ceding and following words.
The morpheme ?vaa-laa?
as such has no meaning.
Examples (Sinha2009a): jaane vaalaa (go vaalaa) ?about to go?
;doodh vaalii balti (milk vaalii bucket) ?bucketfilled with milk?
; lohe vaalii balti (iron vaaliibucket) ?bucket made of iron?
; dilli vaalii gaadii(Delhi vaalii train) ?train to/from Delhi?
; nahaanevaalaa sabun (bathe vaalaa soap) ?soap used forbathing?
; sabzii vaalaa (vegetable vaalaa) ?vegeta-ble seller?.3.4 Complex and Compound VerbsThe complex predicates and compound verb formsas MWEs have been widely studied (Hook, 1974;Abbi, 1992; Mohanan, 1994; Butt, 1995; Venkata-111pathy et.al., 2005; Mukerjee et.
al., 2006; Chakra-barti et.
al., 2008; Sinha 2009b).
A complex predi-cate is a multi-word expression (MWE) where anoun, a verb or an adjective is followed by a lightverb (LV) and the MWE behaves as a single verbunit.
LV (Sinha 2009b) can also be a main verb.
Acompound verb form has the main verb in itsroot/stem form followed by conjugated light verbs.In Hindi compound verbs, the primary mean-ing of the light/helping verbs are often com-pletely lost and may lead to a differentsemantic interpretation or result in affectingtense, aspect and modality of the compoundverb.
A few illustrative examples (light verbs areshown underlined): daan denaa (donation give) ?todonate?
; mukka maaranaa (fist kill/beat) ?topunch?
; mukka de maaranaa (fist give kill/beat) ?toblow punch?
; mukka maaraa gaya (fist kill/beatwent) ?was punched?
; mukka maaraa gaya thaa(fist kill/beat went was) ?had been punched?
; muk-ka maaraa jaa rahaa thaa (fist kill/beat go contin-ue was) ?was being punched?
; mukka paRaa (fistlie)?got punched ?
; ruka jaao (stop go) ?stop?
; aajaao (come go) ?come?
; galati kara baiThanaa(mistake do sit); ?commit mistake (unintentional)?.There are innumerable numbers of such MWEsin Hindi.
However not all verb forms are MWEs.3.5 Acronyms and AbbreviationsThe acronyms and abbreviations in Hindi differfrom their English counterparts.
For example, thename ?Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi?
may beabbreviated as ?ma.
ka.
gaandhii?
(taking the firstletter) or ?mo.
ka.
gaandhii?
(taking the first letterwith associated vowel modifier) or  ?ema.
ke.gaandhii?
(taking the English alphabet letter).
Si-milarly, the Hindi acronym for  ?Bharatiya  JanataParty?
could  be  ?bee.
je.
pii.?
(first Englishcharacters with dots)  or  ?beejepii.?
(first Englishcharacters with no dots) or  ?bhaa.
ja.
paa.?
(firstHindi character with associated vowel modifierwith dots) or ?bhaajapaa?
(first Hindi characterwith  associated  vowel modifier with no dots).Although acronyms without dots are single wordsbut they represent MWEs.3.6 MWEs with foreign words and termsIt is often a common practice to mix foreign wordsand terms in day-to-today conversation in Hindi(Sinha et al 2005b).
Sometimes there are morpho-logical variations to these as per Hindi grammar.These may appear as MWEs with arbitrary combi-nations.
Some of these are institutionalizedMWEs.
Examples: skilda (skilled)  mainegaron(managers);  spektram  (spectrum)  laaiisenson(licenses).
Here,  the words  mainegaron andlaaiisenson  are plural forms of the transliteratedEnglish words ?manager?
and ?license?
respective-ly, but the morphological changes are as per theHindi pluralization rule.
Since the foreign rootword may undergo morphological variation as perHindi grammar or may retain its English form, across morphological analysis is required to be doneto extract the root word.
Further, the transliterationof  foreign  word  has  a  number  of  phoneticvariations which needs to be considered before alook up into the English dictionary is performed.This class of MWE is not focused in this study.4 Identification, extraction and interpre-tation of MWEs in HindiIn this paper, we have considered only thoseMWEs that are particularly applicable to Hindi.The general characteristics of these MWEs havebeen outlined in the preceding section.
We usethese very characteristics in extracting the MWEsfrom the corpus.
The extraction of MWEs that aremore generally based on collocation and co-occurrence, require exhaustive and representativecorpus to succeed which is not available for Hindi.For identifying MWEs, we use multiple strate-gies and resources depending upon the class of theMWEs.
The process of identification is semi-automatic.
The automatic process generates theprobable MWEs and then filtered manually.
In fu-ture, the process can be fully automated using thistagged   data   through   machine   learning.
Amonolingual  corpus   and  a  lexical  database (dic-tionary) are used in all the cases.
In addition, a bi-lingual English-Hindi corpus and a Hindi wordnetare used for identifying some.
We attempt to pro-vide limited interpretation for some of these.
Ourmethod is mostly based on linguistic knowledge.We also show how these interpretations are engi-neered for a machine translation task by makingappropriate substitutions in the source text.For identification, there is a preferred order inwhich we mine them as it helps in furtherprocessing.
At a broad level, the processes are:sentence boundary identification; POS tagging;112morphological analysis; identification of acronymand abbreviation with dots; Hindi chunker andverb-phrase form separation; identification of rep-licating class; identification of doublet class; iden-tification of vaalaa morpheme construct class;complex predicates and compound verb identifica-tion; identification of acronym (with no dots); andidentification of named-entities.After the sentence boundary identification, POStagging and the morphological analysis, the identi-fication of acronyms and abbreviations that havedots associated with them, is carried out using arule base.
Next, chunking is performed.
Chunkingis a process of performing shallow parsing of thesentence where the words having affinity with eachother at a syntactic level are grouped together.
Anexample (chunks are shown within curly paren-theses and English equivalent is enclosed withinparentheses):{bhagawaan raam ke haathon}(byLord Ram) {mahaabalii raavana}(mighty Ravan){yuddha bhoomi men}(in battlefield) {maara daa-laa gayaa thaa}(had been killed).
In chunking,firstly the verb group is identified.
Since Hindi is averb ending language, a finite state machine (FSM)is designed which starts scanning the words fromthe rear end (right to left) for possible inclusion inthe  verb  group based on the POS tag and themorphemes (Gune et al 2010) of the words.
AHindi complex verb group may consist of auxilia-ries, light verbs, predicate verbs and intensifiersbesides the main verb.
Such verb groups make anMWE because of its non-compositionality.
In theabove example, the last chunk which is the verbgroup chunk, is reproduced with meanings:{maara(kill) daalaa (put) gayaa (went) thaa (was)} (hadbeen killed).
Here  main  verb is maara (kill),daalaa (put) is a light verb making maara daalaa apredicate verb,  gayaa (went) is an intensifier andthaa (was) is an auxiliary verb.
The sequence ofwords that constitute the verb group could be quitelong and is usually delimited by a postposition, apunctuation mark or a noun that does not form partof a predicate verb.Identification of replicating words with a space,hyphen or a particle in between, and with plural-singular combination are searched within a chunkas identified in the earlier stage.
The chunkercreates  a  surface  linear parse structure for thesentence and so is useful in eliminating falsegroupings of the replicating words.
Replicatingwords (exact match) with a hyphen in between aredefinite MWEs while those without hyphen maynot be so.
In general, their identification and inter-pretation depends upon the associated POS andsemantic role.
Given below is an example rule(Sinha et al 2005a) :If the replicative verb has a suffix ?te and themain verb is of the ?resultive:psych?
typethen <verb_x-te><verb_x-te> =>due to|of  <verb_x>+ingThis rule when applied to the Hindi sentence,vah daurate daurate thak gayaa (he run run tirewent), yields the interpretation as ?He got tired ofrunning?.
For machine translation, the replicatingwords ?daurate daurate?
is substituted by a dummyvariable (say ?dv1?)
with POS as an adverb and itsvalue will be stored as ?of running?.
The Hindi sen-tence is modified to ?vah dv1  thak gayaa?
for ma-chine translation.
This kind of strategy is appliedfor all interpretations.
The ambiguity resolution, ifany, is left to the translation engine to tackle.Hindi wordnet (Narayan et al, 2002) is used forchecking antonym, hyponym and near synonymrelationships in the pair of words.
The doubletswith hyphens are sure candidates of MWE but thedoublets without hyphen are considered MWEs ifthey belong to the same chunk.
In a semi-onomatopoeia combination, the second word isusually an unknown word and its suffix provides arhythmic companionship.
This is what is used intheir identification.
For example, in ?chaayavaaya?.
?vaaya?
is an unknown word and the suffix?aaya?
is common to the two words.
The interpre-tation of the semi-onomatopoeia combination isusually the hyponym of the first word.
Thus?chaaya (tea) vaaya?
is interpreted as ?snacks?.Since all ?vaalaa?
constructs are MWEs, themere presence of ?vaalaa?
morpheme facilitatestheir identification.
The major issue is that of de-termining the adjoining words that form the MWE.For this a number of rules are devised based on thesemantic interpretation of the MWE.
Given belowis an illustration (Sinha 2009a):?If ?vaalaa?
is preceded by a verb in infinitiveform and followed by an auxiliary verb, then itrepresents a future event (about to action representingthe verb).
The verb+vaalaa is a MWE.
?A number of such rules are devised using semanticrelationships obtained through wordnet or a lexicaldatabase.For identification of compound verb, we use alist of 30 light verbs (Sinha 2009b).
When a verb113in its stem form, is followed by a light verb, it isidentified as a compound verb (strategy used issimilar to Chakrabarti et al 2008).
This rule isapplied recursively to make a larger group.For the identification of complex predicates, weuse a parallel aligned Hindi-English corpus.
Asimple heuristic of the absence of the light verbtranslated  into English in the parallel corpus istaken as the complex predicate (Sinha 2009b).We use an in-house named-entity recognizer.All the forms of the names as outlined in section2.11 are detected and interpreted accordingly.
Allthe  unknown word sequences are consideredprobable candidates for MWEs.
A name gazetteeris used to identify the named entities and the restare checked  for  being  acronyms.
A majority ofacronyms without dots in Hindi are mappings ofEnglish acronyms.
Therefore,  the  individualRoman  alphabet character mapping to Hindi isutilized to detect these.
The names that are alsovalid dictionary words do not get identified.5 Experimentation and ResultsAs a general corpus is very sparse in terms of oc-currences of each type of MWE, we created corpusconsisting of instances of different types sampledfrom various sources such as news articles, gram-mar books and corpora available athttp://www.cfilt.iitb.ac.in/hin_corp_unicode.tar,www.cdacnoida.in/snlp/digital_library/gyan_nidhi.asp.The sampling was mostly done through an auto-matic process where templates of patterns weresupplied with randomly picking up words from alist of frequent words created by an analysis of aHindi corpus.
These were further clubbed into sixdifferent classes of MWEs  where  each  classconsisted of similar MWE type.
This helped us intaking care of sparseness to some extent to makeour study more meaningful.
Our sample space foreach class consisted of approximately 5000 words.Table 1 shows the results of our experimenta-tion.
The f-score varied from 27% to 97%.
Theidentification of named entities is poor as it isbased on a gazetteer and unknown words.
The per-formance of the MWEs identification in the doub-let class is affected due to inadequacy of the Hindiwordnet that has been used for some of its sub-classes.
The Hindi wordnet is not complete andmany of the antonyms, hypernyms/hyponyms andontological classification are not present.Table 1: Experimental resultsMWE Type F-scoreacronym and abbreviation with dots  92.2%replicating class 97.4%doublet class  73.6%?vaala?
construct class 90.7%Complex predicates and compound verbs 77.2%acronym (with no dots) and named entity  27.5%6 Conclusions and DiscussionsIn this paper, we have provided comprehensivedetails and characteristics of the MWEs that arespecific to Hindi.
Many of these characteristics aregeneric in nature in the sense that it is not based onany statistical inference but it is the linguisticproperty that helps in MWE extraction.
For ex-ample, all replicating words irrespective of theirPOS, all doublets with plural-singular form combi-nations, ?vaala?
forms, complex verb forms etc areall strong candidates for MWEs in Hindi irrespec-tive of whether these have earlier been encounteredin the corpus or not.
This means that even the lowfrequency  MWEs  can  be  captured.
All  thestatistical  approaches  require  the corpus to berepresentative and exhaustive in order to be able toyield reliable results (limitations: Kunchukuttan etal., 2008).
Moreover, most of the idiosyncrasies ofthe language surface in informal conversations andare rarely available in regular textual corpora(Baldwin et al, 2010).
The statistical approach willanyway be needed to mine other types of MWEsand discover new and institutionalized MWEs(mostly domain specific ) that keep getting added(Baldwin et al, 2010).
However,  our stepwisemethodology of filtering MWEs in stages providesa reduced sample space for searching the MWEs.Thus the size of the bag of the context words(Katz, 2006) needed for their identification andinterpretation gets reduced.
One of the primaryaims of this study is to collect MWEs of differenttypes in a semi-automatic way for use by the lex-icographers for possible entry in the dictionary andstepwise mining is helpful.Our contribution lies in presenting a comprehen-sive study of all types of MWEs encountered inHindi and devise methods for their mining.
Wehave not been able to present a detailed descriptionof our method due to space constraints.
In futurework, we would like to hybridize rule based andstatistical methods with bootstrapping of the dataobtained for different classes.114ReferencesAmitabh Mukerjee, A. Soni, and A. Raina.
2006.
De-tecting Complex Predicates in Hindi using POS Pro-jection across Parallel corpora.
ACL Workshop onMultiword ExpressionsAnoop Kunchukuttan and Om P. Damani.
2008.
A Sys-tem for Compound Noun Multiword Expression Ex-traction for Hindi.
Proceedings of InternationalConference on Natural Language Processing(ICON2008)Anvita Abbi.
1992.
Reduplication in South Asian Lan-guages: An Areal, Typological and Historical Study.Allied Publishers, New Delhi.Anvita Abbi.
1975.
Reduplication in Hindi: A Genera-tive Semantic Study.
Dissertation Abstracts Interna-cional, Vol.
36, University of NY (1975).Anvita Abbi.
1992.
The explicator compound verb:somedefinitional issues and criteria for identification.
In-dian Linguistics, 53, 27-46.B.
V. Moiron and J. Tiedemann.
2006.
Identifying idi-omatic expressions using automatic word alignment.EACL 2006 Workshop on Multiword Expressions ina multilingual context.Debasri Chakrabarti, Hemang Mandalia, Ritwik Priya,Vaijayanthi Sarma and Pushpak Bhattacharyya.2008.Hindi Compound Verbs and their Automatic Extrac-tion, Computational Linguistics (COLING08), Man-chester, UK.D.
Lin.
1999.
Automatic identification of noncomposi-tional phrases.
ACL-1999.D.
Narayan, D. Chakrabarti, P. Pandey, andP.Bhattacharyya.
2002.
An experience in building theIndoWordNet - a WordNet for Hindi.
Global Word-Net Conference.G.
Katz and E. Giesbrechts.
2006.
Automatic identifica-tion of noncompositional multi-word expressions us-ing Latent Semantic Analysis.
ACL Workshop onMultiword Expressions.Harshada Gune, Mugdha Bapat, Mitesh Khapra andPushpak Bhattacharyya.
2010.
Verbs are where allthe Action Lies: Experiences of Shallow Parsing of aMorphologically Rich Language, ComputationalLinguistics Conference (COLING 2010), Beijing,China.I.
A. Sag,, T. Baldwin, F. Bond, A. C-opestake, and D.Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword expressions: A pain inthe neck for NLP.
In Proceedings of the 3rd Interna-tional Conference on Intelligent Text Processing andComputational Linguistics (CICLing-2002), MexicoCity, Mexico.
1?15Jennifer Brundage, M. Kresse, U. Schwall and A. Stor-rer.
1992.
Multiword lexemes: A monolingual andcontrastive typology for natural language processingand machine translation.
Technical Report 232, Insti-tut fuer Wissensbasierte Systeme, IBM DeutschlandGmbH, Heidelberg.K.
Church and P. Hanks.
1990.
Word associationnorms, mutual information, and  lexicography.Computational Linguistics.
16(1).Miriam Butt.
1995.
The   Structure   of    ComplexPredicates in Urdu.
CSLI Publications.P.
Pecina.
2008.
Lexical Association Measures.
Ph.
D.thesis, Charles University.Peter Edwin Hook.
1974.
The  Compound  Verb  inHindi.
Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies:The University of Michigan.R.
Mahesh K. Sinha.
2009a.
Learning Disambiguationof Hindi Morpheme 'vaalaa' with a Sparse Corpus,The Eighth International Conference on MachineLearning and Applications (ICMLA 2009), Miami,Florida, USAR.
Mahesh K. Sinha.
2009b.
Mining  Complex  Predi-cates In Hindi Using Parallel Hindi-English Corpus,ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Workshop on Multi Word Ex-pression (MWE 2009), Singapore.R.
M. K. Sinha and Anil Thakur.
2005a.
Dealing withReplicative Words in Hindi for Machine Translationto English, 10th Machine Translation summit (MTSummit X), Phuket, Thailand., 157-164.R.
M. K. Sinha and Anil Thakur.
2005b.
MachineTranslation of Bi-lingual Hindi-English (Hinglish)Text, 10th Machine Translation summit (MT SummitX), Phuket, Thailand.. 149-156.Sriram Venkatapathy and A. Joshi.
2006.
Using infor-mation about multi-word expressions for the wordalignment task.
In Proceedings of the COLING/ACLWorkshop on Multiword Expressions: Identifyingand Exploiting Underlying Properties, Sydney, Aus-tralia, 53?60.Sriram Venkatapathy and Aravind K. Joshi, 2005.
Rela-tive compositionality of multi-word expressions: astudy of verb-noun (V-N) collocations, In Proceed-ings of International Joint Conference on NaturalLanguage Processing - 2005, Jeju Island, Korea, 553-564.Tara Mohanan.
1994.
Argument Structure in Hindi.CSLI Publications, Stanford, California.Timothy Baldwin and F. Bond.
2002.
Multiword ex-pressions: Some problems for Japanese NLP.
In Pro-ceedings of the 8th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Natural Language Processing (Ja-pan), Keihanna, Japan, 379?382.Timothy Baldwin and Su Nam Kim.
2010.
MultiwordExpressions, in Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J.
Damerau(eds.)
Handbook of Natural Language Processing,Second Edition, CRC Press, Boca Raton, USA.
267-292.115
