Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning, page 48,Portland, Oregon, USA, 23?24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics for Studying Language in People:Principles, Applications and Research ProblemsInvited talkBruce HayesDepartment of Linguistics, UCLAbhayes@humnet.ucla.eduOne of the goals of computational linguistics is to create automated systems that can learn, generate, andunderstand language at all levels of structure (semantics, syntax, morphology, phonology, phonetics).
Thisis a very demanding task whose complete fulfillment lies far in the future.
Human beings can learn, gen-erate, and understand language at all levels of structure, and the study of how they do it can be pursued bycomputational modeling.
Indeed, one sort of ?acid test?
for theories in linguistics is whether they can serveas the basis for successful models of this kind.
A research strategy for theoretical linguistics based on mod-eling thus invites close collaboration between ?mainstream?
linguists and their computational colleagues.Such collaborations make the job of the computationalists, already very demanding, even harder.
The col-lision between a computational model and human data arises when we apply the Turing test: the model oughtto behave like a human, not just in generating a correct output, but in every conceivable sense: generatingalternative outputs for a single input, (often with a nuanced sense of preferences among them), generatinghuman-like mistakes, generating child-like mistakes when given incomplete information, and so on.
I sug-gest that linguists could serve as good Turing testers, because it is their daily practice in professional life tointerrogate their models in the most ingenious ways they can find, probing for deficiencies though compari-son to complex human intuitions and behavior.With this as backdrop, I offers a series of case studies, of three different kinds: (1) Turing tests: caseswhere interrogation by linguists revealed non-humanlike traits in computational models that performed wellby traditional computational criteria (precision, recall, etc.
); (2) Success stories: particular results of com-putational linguistics that have proven useful so far in modeling language in humans; (3) Suggestions forfuture work: proposals in linguistic theory that look promising and would benefit from computationalanalysis.48
