Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2011: the 12th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 347?349,Portland, Oregon, June 17-18, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsRapid Development of Advanced Question-Answering Charactersby Non-expertsSudeep Gandhe and Alysa Taylor and Jillian Gerten and David TraumUSC Institute for Creative Technologies12015 Waterfront Drive, Playa Vista, CA 90094, USA<lastname>@ict.usc.eduAbstractWe demonstrate a dialogue system and the ac-companying authoring tools that are designedto allow authors with little or no experiencein building dialogue systems to rapidly buildadvanced question-answering characters.
Todate seven such virtual characters have beenbuilt by non-experts using this architectureand tools.
Here we demonstrate one such char-acter, PFC Sean Avery, which was developedby a non-expert in 3 months.1 IntroductionOur goal is to allow non-experts to build advancedquestion-answering Virtual Human characters.
Bynon-experts, we mean that scenario authors need nothave any background in computational linguisticsor any experience in building dialogue systems; al-though they can be an expert in the specific domainof interaction.
The advanced question-answeringcharacters we want to build should have the abil-ity to decide whether to answer a specific questiontruthfully or to lie about it or to simply refuse to an-swer depending on the dialogue context and scenariodesign.
Interviewers can practice their questioningskills by interacting with virtual characters that canengage in simple bargaining behavior.
In order toreveal certain information marked as sensitive, inter-viewers may have to employ several different tacticslike building rapport, offering to provide what thevirtual character wants or threatening the characterwith consequences for not cooperating.
The Amanicharacter (Artstein et al, 2009) is an example ad-vanced question-answering character.Several different architectures have been used forbuilding Virtual Human dialogue systems (Traum,2008).
Leuski et al (2006; 2010) describe onesuch architecture that can be used to build simplequestion-answering characters.
In this architecture,scenario designers author a list of questions, a listof answers and all possible links between these.
Al-though this approach allows non-experts to developvirtual characters, it falls short of maintaining coher-ence over sequence of utterances greater in lengththan two.
Traum et al (2008) describe an archi-tecture that models such dependencies by using aninformation-state based dialogue model (Traum andLarsson, 2003), but this architecture is not currentlyaccessible to non-experts for authoring, due to ex-pertise needed in designing task model plans andthematic-role based framebanks.We choose an intermediate approach, using a sim-ple information-state dialogue manager, making au-thoring accessible to non-experts through use ofthe accompanying integrated authoring tool, Do-mainEditor (Gandhe et al, 2009).2 PFC Sean AveryPrivate First Class (PFC) Sean Avery is a virtualcharacter who has witnessed a fellow soldier andhis accomplice smuggling something suspicious ona U.S. Army base.
Avery can be questioned aboutwhat he saw, who the soldier and the accomplicewere.
But the soldier involved in the smuggling isfrom Avery?s platoon and Avery wants to cover upthe incident.
He may choose to lie and will needmore persuasion in the form of threats & offers (seefigure 1).347Player ynq Are you Sean Avery?Avery yes YesAvery assert My name is PFC Sean Avery.Player whq Tell me what you saw.Avery assert The soldier got out of the car and took apackage from the back seat.Player whq Do you know who the soldier was?Avery assert-lieI have no clue what the soldier?s name is.Player threat If you don?t tell me your privileges will berevoked.Avery response-threatI don?t want to be on restrictionPlayer whq Who was the soldier?Avery assert The soldier?s name is Ryan Benton.Player whq Tell me more about the soldier.Avery assert The PFC is in my platoon and one of myclosest friends.Player whq What was inside the package?Avery assert He was carrying a puppy.Player whq What was inside the package?Avery self-repeatAs I said earlier,Avery assert The suspicious package contained apuppy.Player whq Whose idea was it to smuggle the puppyon the base.Avery elicit-offerWill you give the soldier a less severe pun-ishment if I talk?Player accept yesAvery response-offerThat?s comforting, I wouldn?t want him toget thrown off base or anything.Avery assert I think the soldier told his girlfriend itwouldn?t be a big deal to sneak a puppyon base.Figure 1: A sample dialogue with PFC Sean Avery char-acter.
Player refers to the human trainee.3 Authoring ProcessThe authoring process for such characters has twophases.
The first phase is a top-down process whichbegins with defining the character?s domain knowl-edge using the authoring tool, DomainEditor (SeeFigure 2).
The basic unit of domain knowledge isan <object, attribute, value> triple.
DomainEditorautomatically generates all relevant Dialogue Acts(DAs) following a dialogue act schema.
The de-fault schema was authored by experts specificallyFigure 2: DomainEditor: An Integrated Authoring toolfor designing the conversational domain, and specifyingthe utterances that map to various dialogue acts.for tactical questioning, but can be easily tailoredto add different types of DAs for other scenarios.Each DA has a detailed XML representation and apseudo-natural language gloss generated using tem-plates.
E.g.
a template like ?Attribute of Object isValue?
for an assert dialogue act type.
The growthin number of DAs represents the growth in charac-ter?s domain knowledge (See figure 3).
Our experi-ence with several non-expert authors is that the do-main reaches a stable level relatively early.
Most ofthe domain authoring occurs during this phase.
Sce-nario designers author one or two utterances for eachof the character?s DAs and substantially more exam-ples for player?s DAs in order to ensure robust NLUperformance.
These utterances are used as trainingdata for NLU and NLG.The second phase is a bottom-up phase which in-volves collecting a dialogue corpus by having vol-unteers interview the virtual character that has beenbuilt.
The utterances from this corpus can then beannotated with the most appropriate DA.
This sec-ond phase is responsible for a rapid growth in playerutterances.
It can also lead to minor domain expan-sion and small increase in character utterances, asneeded to cover gaps found in the domain knowl-edge.4 System ArchitectureFigure 4 depicts the architecture for our dialoguesystem.
CMU pocketsphinx1 is used for speech1http://cmusphinx.sourceforge.net/348Figure 3: Amount of resources collected across time forthe character, PFC Sean AveryFigure 4: Architecture for the Advanced Question-Answering Conversational Dialogue Systemrecognition and CereVoice (Aylett et al, 2006) forspeech synthesis.
The information-state based dia-logue manager (DM) communicates with NLU andNLG using dialogue acts (DAs).
NLU maps rec-ognized speech to one of the DAs from the set thatis automatically generated by the DomainEditor.
Ifthe confidence for the best candidate DA is belowa certain threshold, NLU generates a special non-understanding DA ?
unknown.
The information-state is in part based on conversational game the-ory (Lewin, 2000).
The main responsibilities of theDM are to update the information state of the dia-logue based on the incoming DA and to select theresponse DAs.
The information state update rulesdescribe grammars for conversational game struc-ture and are written as state charts using SCXML2.These state charts model various subdialogues likequestion-answering, offer, threat, greetings, clos-ings, etc.
The DM also implements advanced fea-tures like topic-tracking and grounding (Roque andTraum, 2009).
The virtual human character de-2State Chart XML ?
http://www.w3.org/TR/scxml/Apache commons SCXML ?
http://commons.apache.org/scxmllivers synthesized speech and corresponding non-verbal behavior, based on additional components ofthe ICT Virtual Human Toolkit3.AcknowledgmentsThis work was sponsored by the U.S. Army Research, Devel-opment, and Engineering Command (RDECOM).
The contentdoes not necessarily reflect the position or the policy of the U.S.Government, and no official endorsement should be inferred.We would like to thank other members of the TACQ team whohelped design the architecture.ReferencesRon Artstein, Sudeep Gandhe, Michael Rushforth, andDavid Traum.
2009.
Viability of a simple dialogue actscheme for a tactical questioning dialogue system.
Inproc.
of 13th SemDial workshop : DiaHolmia.M.
P. Aylett, C. J. Pidcock, and M. E. Fraser.
2006.
Thecerevoice blizzard entry 2006: A prototype databaseunit selection engine.
In Blizzard Challenge Work-shop, Pittsburgh.Sudeep Gandhe, Nicolle Whitman, David Traum, andRon Artstein.
2009.
An integrated authoring tool fortactical questioning dialogue systems.
In 6th Work-shop on Knowledge and Reasoning in Practical Dia-logue Systems, Pasadena, California, July.Anton Leuski and David R. Traum.
2010.
NPCEditor:A tool for building question-answering characters.
Inproc.
of LREC?
10.Anton Leuski, Ronakkumar Patel, David Traum, andBrandon Kennedy.
2006.
Building effective questionanswering characters.
In Proceedings of the 7th SIG-dial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, Australia.I.
Lewin.
2000.
A formal model of conversational gametheory.
In 4th SemDial workshop: Gotalog 2000.Antonio Roque and David Traum.
2009.
Improving avirtual human using a model of degrees of grounding.In Proceedings of IJCAI-09.David Traum and Staffan Larsson.
2003.
The informa-tion state approach to dialogue management.
In Janvan Kuppevelt and Ronnie Smith, editors, Current andNew Directions in Discourse and Dialogue.
Kluwer.David Traum, William Swartout, Jonathan Gratch, andStacy Marsella, 2008.
A Virtual Human DialogueModel for Non-Team Interaction, volume 39 of Text,Speech and Language Technology.
Springer.David Traum.
2008.
Talking to virtual humans: Dia-logue models and methodologies for embodied con-versational agents.
In Ipke Wachsmuth and Gu?ntherKnoblich, editors, Modeling Communication withRobots and Virtual Humans, pages 296?309.
Springer.3http://vhtoolkit.ict.usc.edu/349
