Proceedings of the Fifth Law Workshop (LAW V), pages 143?151,Portland, Oregon, 23-24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnnotating Events, Temporal Expressions and Relations in Italian:the It-TimeML Experience for the Ita-TimeBankTommaso Caselli Valentina Bartalesi Lenzi Rachele SprugnoliILC ?A.Zampolli?
- CNRVia G. Moruzzi, 156124 PisaCELCTVia della Cascata 56/c38123 Povo (TN)CELCTVia della Cascata 56/c38123 Povo (TN)caselli@ilc.cnt.it bartalesi@celct.it sprugnoli@celct.itEmanuele Pianta Irina ProdanofCELCTVia della Cascata 56/c38123 Povo (TN)ILC ?A.Zampolli?
- CNRVia G. Moruzzi, 156124 Pisapianta@fbk.eu prodanof@ilc.cnr.itAbstractThis paper presents the annotationguidelines and specifications which havebeen developed for the creation of theItalian TimeBank, a language resourcecomposed of two corpora manuallyannotated with temporal and eventinformation.
In particular, the adaptationof the TimeML scheme to Italian isdescribed, and a special attention isgiven to the methodology used for therealization of the annotationspecifications, which are strategic inorder to create good quality annotatedresources and to justify the annotateditems.
The reliability of the It-TimeMLguidelines and specifications isevaluated on the basis of the results ofthe inter-coder agreement performedduring the annotation of the two corpora.?
IntroductionIn recent years a renewed interest in temporalprocessing has spread in the NLP community,thanks to the success of the TimeML annotationscheme (Pustejovsky et al, 2003a) and to theavailability of annotated resources, such as theEnglish and French TimeBanks (Pustejovsky etal., 2003b; Bittar, 2010) and the TempEvalcorpora (Verhagen et al, 2010).The ISO TC 37 / SC 4 initiative(?Terminology and other language and contentresources?)
and the TempEval-2 contest havecontributed to the development of TimeML-compliant annotation schemes in languagesother than English, namely Spanish, Korean,Chinese, French and Italian.
Once thecorresponding corpora will be completed andmade available, the NLP community will benefitfrom having access to different languageresources with a common layer of annotationwhich could boost studies in multilingualtemporal processing and improve theperformance of complex multilingual NLPsystems, such as Question-Answering andTextual Entailment.This paper focuses on the annotationguidelines and specifications which have beendeveloped for the creation of the ItalianTimeBank (hereafter, Ita-TimeBank).
Thedistinction between annotation guidelines andannotation specifications is of utmostimportance in order to distinguish between theabstract, formal definition of an annotationscheme and the actual realization of theannotated language resource.
In addition to this,documenting the annotation specificationfacilitates the reduplication of annotations andjustify the annotated items.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2will describe in detail specific issues related tothe temporal annotation of Italian for the twomain tags of the TimeML annotation scheme,143namely <EVENT> and <TIMEX3>.
Section 3will present the realization of the annotationspecifications and will document them.
Section4 focuses on the evaluation of the annotationscheme on the Ita-TimeBank, formed by twocorpora independently realized by applying theannotation specifications.
Finally, in Section 5conclusions and extensions to the currentannotation effort will be reported.Notice that, for clarity's sake, in this paper theexamples will focus only on the tag (or attributeor link) under discussion.?
It-TimeML: Extensions andLanguage Specific IssuesApplying an annotation scheme to a languageother than the one for which it was initiallydeveloped, requires a careful study of thelanguage specific issues related to the linguisticphenomena taken into account (Im et al, 2009;Bittar, 2008).TimeML focuses on Events (i.e.
actions,states, and processes - <EVENT> tag),Temporal Expressions (i.e.
durations, calendardates, times of day and sets of time -<TIMEX3> tag), Signals (e.g.
temporalprepositions and subordinators - <SIGNAL>tag) and various kind of dependencies betweenEvents and/or Temporal Expressions (i.e.temporal, aspectual and subordination relations -<TLINK>, <ALINK> and <SLINK> tagsrespectively).An ISO language-independent specificationof TimeML is under development but it is stillin the enquiry stage1.
For this reason, in thefollowing subsections we will mostly comparethe Italian annotation guidelines with the latestversion of the English annotation guidelines(TimeML Working group, 2010), focusing onthe two main tags, i.e <EVENT> and<TIMEX3>, in Italian.2.1 The <EVENT> tagThe <EVENT> tag is used to mark-up instancesof eventualities (Bach, 1986).
This categorycomprises all types of actions (punctual ordurative) and states as well.
With respect to1http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_catalogue/catalogue_tc/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=37331previous annotations schemes (Katz and Arosio,2001, Filatova and Hovy, 2001, Setzer andGaizauskas, 2001 among other), TimeMLallows for annotating as Events not only verbsbut also nouns, adjectives and prepositionalphrases.In the adaptation to Italian, two annotationprinciples adopted for English, that is anorientation towards surface linguisticphenomena and the notion of minimal chunk forthe tag extent, have been preserved withoutmajor modifications.
The main differences withrespect to the English version rely i.)
in theattribute list; and ii.)
in the attributes values.In Italian 12 core attributes apply with respectto the 10 attributes in English.
The newlyintroduced attributes are MOOD and VFORMwhich capture key distinctions of the Tense-Mood-Aspect (TMA) system of the Italianlanguage.
These two attributes are common toother languages, such as Spanish, Catalan,French and Korean.The MOOD attribute captures the contrastivegrammatical expression of different modalitiesof presentation of an Event when realized by averb.
Annotating this attribute is important sincegrammatical modality has an impact on theidentification of temporal and subordinatingrelations, and on the assessment ofveridicity/factivity values.
Mood in Italian isexpressed as part of the verb morphology andnot by means of modal auxiliary verbs as inEnglish (e.g.
through the auxiliary ?would?
),.Thus, the solution to deal with this phenomenonadopted for English TimeML (where the mainverb is annotated with the attributeMODALITY=?would?, see below) is notapplicable in Italian unless relevant informationis lost.
The values of the MOOD attribute, aslisted below, have been adapted to Italian andextended with respect to those proposed in theISO-TimeML specification:?
NONE: it is used as the default value andcorresponds to the Indicative mood:(1.)
Le forze dell?ordine hanno <EVENT?
mood="NONE"> schierato </EVENT>3.000 agenti.
[The police has deployed3,000 agents.]144?
CONDITIONAL: it signals the conditionalmood which is used to speak of an Eventwhose realization is dependent on a certaincondition, or to signal the future-in-the-past:(2.)
<EVENT ... mood="COND">Mangerei </EVENT> del pesce.
[I wouldeat fish.]?
SUBJUNCTIVE: it has several uses inindependent clauses and is required forcertain types of dependent clauses.(3.)
Voglio che tu te ne <EVENT ?mood="SUBJUNCTIVE">vada</EVENT>[I want you to go.]?
IMPERATIVE: it is used to express directcommands or requests, to signal aprohibition, permission or any other kind ofexhortation.The attribute VFORM is responsible fordistinguishing between non-finite and finiteforms of verbal Events.
Its values are:?
NONE: it is the default value and signalsfinite verb forms:(4.)
Le forze dell?ordine hanno <EVENT?
vForm="NONE">schierato</EVENT>3.000 agenti.
[The police has deployed3,000 agents.]?
INFINITIVE: for infinitive verb forms:(5.)
Non ?
possibile <EVENT ?vForm=''INFINITIVE''>viaggiare</EVENT>.
[It?s not possible to travel.]?
GERUND: for gerundive verb forms:(6.)
Ha evitato l'incidente <EVENT ?vForm=''GERUND''> andando </EVENT>piano.
[Driving slowly, he avoided theincident.]?
PARTICIPLE: for participle verb forms:(7.)
<EVENT ?
vForm=?PARTICIPLE?>Vista </EVENT> Maria, se ne and?.
[Having seen Maria, he left.
]As for attribute values, the most importantchanges introduced for Italian in comparisonwith the English TimeML, are related to theASPECT and MODALITY attributes.The ASPECT attribute captures standarddistinctions in the grammatical category ofaspect or Event viewpoint (Smith, 1991).
InEnglish TimeML it has the following values: i.
)PROGRESSIVE; ii.)
PERFECTIVE; iii.
)PERFECTIVE_PROGRESSIVE, or iv.)
NONE.The main differences with respect to the Englishguidelines concern the following points:i.)
the absence of the valuePERFECTIVE_PROGRESSIVE andii.)
the presence of the valueIMPERFECTIVE, which is part of the ISOTimeML current definition.These differences are due to language specificphenomena related to the expression of thegrammatical aspect in Italian and English and tothe application of the TimeML surface orientedannotation philosophy.
In particular, theassignment of the aspectual values is strictlydetermined by the verb surface forms.
Forinstance, in English the verb form ?is teaching?requires the PROGRESSIVE value.
On theother hand, the Italian counterpart of ?isteaching?
can be realized in two ways: either bymeans of the simple present (insegna [s/heteaches]) or by means of a specific verbalperiphrasis (sta insegnando [s/he is teaching]).In order to distinguish between these two verbforms, and to account also for other typicalRomance languages tense forms, such as theItalian Imperfetto, the use of the additionalIMPERFECTIVE value is necessary.
Thus,insegna [s/he teaches], as well as the Imperfettoinsegnava [s/he was teaching] are annotated asIMPERFECTIVE, whereas sta insegnando [s/heis teaching] is annotated as PROGRESSIVE.
Onthe other hand, the absence of thePERFECTIVE_PROGRESSIVE value, used forEnglish tense forms of the kind ?he has beenteaching?, is due to the lack of Italian verbsurface forms which may require its use.In English, modal verbs are not annotated asEvents and the MODALITY attribute isassociated to the main verb (the value of theattribute is the token corresponding to the modalverb).
Unlike English modals, Italian modalverbs, such as potere [can/could; may/might],volere [want; will/would] and dovere[must/have to; ought to; shall/should], are to be145considered similar to other lexical verbs in thatit is possible to assign them values for tense andaspect.
Consequently, each instance of Italianmodal verbs will be annotated with the tag<EVENT>.
The value of the MODALITYattribute is the lemma of the verb (e.g.
dovere).A further language specific aspect concernsthe annotation of verbal periphrases, that isspecial constructions with at least two verbs(and sometimes other words) that behave as agroup like a single verb would.
In Italian, it ispossible to identify different instances of verbalperiphrases, namely:?
aspectual periphrases (example 8 below),which encode progressive or habitualaspect;?
modal periphrases (example 9), whichencode modality not realized by propermodal verbs;?
phasal periphrases (example 10), whichencode information on a particular phase inthe description of an Event.Following Bertinetto (1991), in the last twocases, i.e.
modal periphrases and phasalperiphrases, both verbal elements involvedshould be annotated, while in the case of theaspectual periphrasis only the main verb (verbhead) has to be marked; e.g.:(8.)
Maria stava <EVENT ?ASPECT=?PROGRESSIVE?> mangiando.
[Maria was eating](9.)
Il compito di matematica <EVENT ...MODALITY=?ANDARE?> va </EVENT><EVENT ... > svolto </EVENT> per domani.
[Maths exercises must be done for tomorrow](10.)
I contestatori hanno <EVENT ...CLASS=?ASPECTUAL?> iniziato </EVENT>a <EVENT> lanciare </EVENT> pietre.
[Demonstrators started to throw stones.
]Similarly to what proposed for English, inpresence of multi-tokens realization of Events,two main annotation strategies have beenfollowed:?
in case the multi-token Event expressioncorresponds to an instance of a collocationor of an idiomatic expression, then only thehead (verbal, nominal or other) of theexpression is marked up;?
in case the multi-token Event is realized bylight verb expressions, then two separate<EVENT> tags are to be created both forthe verb and the nominal/prepositionalcomplement.2.2 The <TIMEX3> tagThe TIMEX3 tag relies on and is as muchcompliant as possible with the TIDES TIMEX2annotation.
The Italian adaptation of thisannotation scheme is presented in Magnini et al(2006).
The only difference concerns theannotation of articulated prepositions which areannotated as signals, while in the TIMEX2specifications they are considered as part of thetextual realization of Temporal Expressions:(11a.)
<TIMEX2 ?> nel 2011 </TIMEX2>[in 2011](11b.)
<SIGNAL ?> nel </SIGNAL><TIMEX3?>2011</TIMEX3> [in 2011]On the other hand, with respect to theTIMEX3 annotation of other languages such asEnglish, we decided to follow the TIMEX2specification by annotating many adjectives asTemporal Expressions (e.g.
recente [recent], ex[former]) and including modifiers like cherimane in l?anno che rimane [the remainingyear] into the extent of the TIMEX3 tag since itis essential for the normalization of temporalexpressions.3 From Annotation Guidelines toSpecifications ?As already stated, the annotation guidelinesrepresent an abstract, formal level of descriptionwhich, in this case, is mainly based on a detailedstudy of the relevant linguistic levels.
Once theguidelines are applied to real language data,further issues arise and need to be tackled.
Thissection focuses on a method for developingannotation specifications.
Annotationspecifications are to be seen as the actualrealization of the annotation guidelines.
Theidentification and distinction of annotationguidelines from annotation specification is ofmajor importance as it is to be conceived as anew level of Best Practice for the creation of146semantically annotated Language Resources(Calzolari and Caselli, 2009).The process of realization of the annotationspecifications is strategic both to realize goodquality annotated resources and to justify whycertain textual items have to be annotated.
Asfor the It-TimeML experience we will illustratethis process by making reference and reportingexamples for two tags, namely for the<EVENT> and the <TLINK> tags.As a general procedure for the developmentof the annotation specifications, we have takeninspiration from the DAMSL Manual (Core andAllen, 1997).
Different decision trees have beencreated for each task.
For instance, for theannotation of the <EVENT> tag, four differentdecision trees have been designed for each POS(i.e.
nouns, verbs, adjectives and prepositionalphrases) which could be involved in therealization of an Event.
In particular, the mostcomplex decision tree is that developed for nounannotation.
The identification of the eventivereading of nouns has been formalized into adiscrimination process of different properties:firstly superficial properties are taken intoconsideration, i.e.
whether a morphologicallyrelated verb exists or not, and whether the nounco-occurs with special verb predicates (forinstance aspectual verbs such as iniziare [tostart] or light verbs such as fare [to do]); then,deeper semantic properties are analyzed, whichinvolve other levels such as word sensedisambiguation and noun classification (e.g.whether the noun is a functional or anincremental one).Other decision trees have been improved toavoid inconsistencies in Event classification.For instance, the identification of ReportingEvents showed to be problematic because of thevague definition adopted in the guidelines.
AReporting Event is a giving information speechact in which a communicator conveys a messageto an addressee.
To help annotators in decidingwhether an event is a Reporting one, theannotation specifications suggest to rely onFrameNet as a starting point (Baker, et al1998).
More specifically, an Italian lexical unithas been classified as Reporting if it is thetranslation equivalent of one of the lexical unitsassigned to the Communication frame, whichhas Message as a core element.
Among theframes using and inherited from theCommunication frame, only the ones having theMessage as a core element and conveying agiving information speech act have beenselected and the lexical units belonging to themhave been classified as Reporting Events: e.g.urlare [to scream] from theCommunication_noise frame, sottolineare [tostress] from the Convey_importance frame,dichiarare [to declare] from the Statementframe.Similarly, for the identification of TLINKs, aset of decision trees has been developed toidentify the conditions under which a temporalrelation is to be annotated and a method todecide the value of the reltype attribute.
Forinstance, the annotation of temporal relationsbetween nominal Events and TemporalExpressions in the same sentence is allowedonly when the Temporal Expression is realizedeither by an adjective or a prepositional phraseof the form ''di (of) + TEMPORALEXPRESSION'' e.g.:(12.)
La <EVENT eid=''e1'' ... > riunione</EVENT> <SIGNAL sid=''s1'' ... > di</SIGNAL> <TIMEX3 tid=''t1'' ... > ieri</TIMEX3> [yesterday meeting]<TLINK lid=''l1'' eventInstanceID=''e01''relatedToTime=''t01'' signalID="s1"relType=''IS_INCLUDED''/>In addition, decision trees based on the ideathat signals provide useful information toTLINK classification have been used to assignthe reltype value to TLINKs holding between aduration and an Event.
For example, the pattern?EVENT + tra (in) + DURATION?
identifiesthe value AFTER, while the pattern ?EVENT +per (for) + DURATION?
is associated with thevalue MEASURE.(13.)
Il pacco <EVENT eid=''e1'' ... >arriver?</EVENT> <SIGNAL sid=''s1'' ... > tra</SIGNAL> <TIMEX3 tid=''t1'' ... > due giorni</TIMEX3> [the package will arrive in twodays]<TLINK lid=''l1'' eventInstanceID=''e1''relatedToTime=''t1'' signalID="s1"relType=''AFTER?/>(14.)
Sono stati <EVENT eid=''e1'' ... >sposati </EVENT> <SIGNAL sid=''s1'' ... > per</SIGNAL> <TIMEX3 tid=''t1'' ... > dieci anni147</TIMEX3> [they have been married for tenyears]<TLINK lid=''l1'' eventInstanceID=''e1''relatedToTime=''t1'' signalID="s1"relType=''MEASURE?/>The advantages of this formalization aremany.
The impact of the annotators' subjectivityis limited, thus reducing the risk ofdisagreement.
Moreover, trees can then beeasily used either as features for thedevelopment of a automatic learner or asinstructions in a rule-based automatic annotationsystem.?
Evaluating AnnotationsTwo corpora have been developed in parallelfollowing the It-TimeML annotation scheme,namely the CELCT corpus and the ILC corpus.Once these two corpora will be completed andreleased, they will form the Italian TimeBankproviding the NLP community with the largestresource annotated with temporal and eventinformation (more than 150K tokens).In this section, the two corpora are brieflydescribed and the results of the inter-coderagreement (Artstein and Poesio, 2008) achievedduring their annotation are compared in order toevaluate the quality of the guidelines and of theresources.The CELCT corpus has been created withinthe LiveMemories project2 and it consists ofnews stories taken from the Italian ContentAnnotation Bank (I-CAB, Magnini et al,2006).
More than 180,000 tokens have beenannotated with Temporal Expressions andmore than 90,000 tokens have been annotatedalso with Events, Signals and Links.
TheBrandeis Annotation Tool3 (BAT) has beenused for the pilot annotation and for theautomatic computation of the inter-coderagreement on the extent and the attributes ofTemporal Expressions, Events and Signals.After the pilot annotation, the first prototype ofthe CELCT Annotation Tool (CAT) has beenused to perform the annotation and to computethe inter-coder agreement on Links.
For whatconcern the annotation effort, the work on2http://www.livememories.org3http://www.timeml.org/site/bat/Temporal Expressions, Events and Signalsinvolved 2 annotators while 3 annotators havebeen engaged in the annotation of Links.
Theannotation started in January 2010 and requireda total of 1.3 person/years.
Table 1 shows thetotal number of annotated markables togetherwith the results of the inter-coder agreement ontag extent performed by two annotators on asubset of the corpus of about four thousandtokens.
For the annotation of Event and Signalextents, statistics include average precision andrecall and Cohen?
kappa, while the DiceCoefficient has been computed for the extent ofLinks and Temporal Expressions.Markable # AgreementTIMEX3 4,852 Dice=0.94EVENT 17,554 K=0.93 P&R=0.94SIGNAL 2,045 K=0.88 P&R=0.88TLINK 3,373 Dice=0.86SLINK 3,985 Dice=0.93ALINK 238 Dice=0.90Table 1: Annotated markables and results ofthe inter-coder agreement on tag extent4Table 2 provides the value of Fleiss?
kappacomputed for the annotation of TemporalExpression, Event and Link attributes.Tag and attribute Agreement-KappaTIMEX3.type  1.00TIMEX3.value 0.92TIMEX3.mod 0.89EVENT.aspect  0.96EVENT.class  0.87EVENT.modality  1.00EVENT.mood  0.90EVENT.polarity  1.00EVENT.pos  1.00EVENT.tense  0.94EVENT.vform  0.98TLINK.relType 0.88SLINK.relType 0.93ALINK.relType 1.00Table 2: Inter-coder agreement onattributes4 Please note that the number of annotated TemporalExpressions is calculated on a total of 180,000 tokens,while the number of Events, Signals and Links iscalculated on more than 90,000 tokens.148The ILC corpus is composed of 171newspaper stories collected from the ItalianSyntactic-Semantic Treebank, the PAROLEcorpus and the web for a total of 68,000tokens (40,398 tokens are freely available, theremaining are available with restrictions).
Thenews reports were selected to be comparablein content and size to the English TimeBankand they are mainly about international andnational affairs, political and financial subject.The annotation of Temporal Expressions,Event extents and Signals has been completedwhile the annotation of Event attributes andLINKs is a work in progress.
A subset of thecorpus has been used as data set in theTempEval-2 evaluation campaign organizedwithin SemEval-2 in 2010.
So far theannotation has been performed thanks to eightvoluntary students under the supervision oftwo judges using BAT.
The annotation startedin March 2009 and is requiring a total of 3person/years.
Table 3 reports the total numberof Temporal Expressions, Events, Signals andTLINKs together with the results of the inter-coder agreement on tag extent performed onabout 30,000 tokens.
To measure theagreement on tag extents, average precisionand recall and Cohen?
kappa have beencalculated.
The annotation of Temporal Linkshas been divided into three subtasks: the firstsubtask is the relation between two TemporalExpressions, the second is the relationbetween an Event and a Temporal Expression,the third regards the relation between twoEvents.Markable # AgreementTIMEX3 2,314 K=0.95 P&R= 0.95EVENT 10,633 K=0.87 P&R= 0.86SIGNAL 1,704 K=0.83 P&R= 0.84TLINKTIMEX3?TIMEX3353 K=0.95EVENT?TIMEX3512 K=0.87EVENT?EVENT1,014 in progressTable 3: Annotated markables and results ofthe inter-coder agreement on tag extentThe values of Fleiss?
kappa computed forthe assignment of attribute values areillustrated in Table 4.Tag and attribute Agreement ?
KappaTIMEX3.type  0.96TIMEX3.value 0.96TIMEX3.mod 0.97EVENT.aspect  0.93EVENT.class  0.82EVENT.modality  0.92EVENT.mood  0.89EVENT.polarity  0.75EVENT.pos  0.95EVENT.tense  0.97EVENT.vform  0.94TLINK.relType in progressTable 4: Annotated TLINKs and results of theinter-coder agreementGiven the data reported in the above tables,it is possible to claim that the results of theinter-coder agreement are good andcomparable beyond the different annotationmethod used to develop the two corpora.
Sofar, the ILC corpus has been annotatedwithout time constraints by several annotatorswith varying backgrounds in linguistics usingBAT.
With this web-based tool, each file hasbeen assigned to many annotators and anadjudication phase on discrepancies has beenperformed by an expert judge.
As required byBAT, the annotation has been divided intomany annotation layers so each annotatorfocused only on a specific set of It-TimeMLtags.
On the other hand, few expert annotatorshave been involved in the development of theCELCT corpus interacting and negotiatingcommon solutions to controversialannotations.
With respect to BAT, the CELCTAnnotation Tool is stand-alone and it does notrequire neither the parallel annotation of thesame text, nor the decomposition ofannotation tasks allowing to have flexibility inthe annotation process and a unitary view ofall annotation layers.
These features arehelpful when working with strict projectdeadlines.A comparison with the inter-coder agreementachieved during the annotation of the EnglishTimeBank 1.2 (Pustejovsky et al, 2006a),shows that the scores obtained for the CELCT149and the ILC corpora are substantially higher inthe following results: (i) average precision andrecall on the identification of tag extent (e.g.0.83 vs. 0.95 of ILC Corpus and 0.94 of CELCTCorpus for TIMEX3; 0.78 vs. 0.87 of ILCCorpus and 0.93 of CECLT Corpus); (ii) kappascore on Event classification (0.67 vs. 0.82 ofILC Corpus and 0.87 of the CELCT Corpus);(iii) kappa score on TLINK classification (0.77vs.
0.86 of CELCT Corpus).The similarity of the agreement results amongthe three resources and the improvement of thescores obtained on the CELCT and the ILCcorpora with respect to the English TimeBank1.2, can be taken as an indication of the qualityand coverage of the It-TimeML annotationguidelines and specifications.
Annotatorsshowed to perform consistently demonstratingthe reliability of the annotation scheme.?
Conclusions and Future WorksThis paper reports on the creation of a newsemantic resource for Italian which has beendeveloped independently but with a joint effortbetween two different research institutions.
TheIta-TimeBank will represent a large corpusannotated with information for temporalprocessing which can boost the multilingualresearch in this field and represent a case studyfor the creation of semantic annotated resources.One of the most interesting point of this workis represented by the methodology followed forthe development of the corpora: in addition tothe guidelines, annotation specifications havebeen created in order to report in detail theactual choices done during the annotation.
Thiselement should be pushed forward in thecommunity as a new best practice for thecreation of good quality semantically annotatedresources.The results obtained show the reliability ofthe adaptation of the annotation guidelines toItalian and of the methodology used for thecreation of the resources.Future works will concentrate in differentdirections, mainly due to the research interestsof the two groups which have taken part to thiseffort but they will be coordinated.An interesting aspect which could beinvestigated is the annotation of the anaphoricrelations between Events.
This effort could bedone in a more reliable way since the primarylinguistic items have been already annotated.Moreover, this should boost research in thedevelopment of annotation schemes which couldbe easily integrated with each other withoutlosing descriptive and representationalinformation for other language phenomena.Another topic to deepen regards the definitionof the appropriate argument structure in It-TimeML in order to annotate relations betweenentities (e.g.
persons and organizations) andEvents in which they are involved (Pustejovskyet al, 2006b).As regards the distribution of the Ita-TimeBank, the resource will soon be availablein an in-line format.
In order to integrate thetemporal annotation with other linguisticannotations, a standoff version of the Ita-TimeBank needs to be developed.
When this ismade available, we plan to merge the manualannotation of temporal and event informationwith other types of linguistic stand-offannotations (i.e.
tokenization, lemma, PoS,multi-words, various kinds of named entities)which are already available for the I-CABcorpus.In order to encourage research on systemscapable of temporal inference and event-basedreasoning, the Ita-TimeBank could be used asgold standard within specific evaluationcampaigns as the next TempEval initiative.Finally, the use of crowdsourcing will beexplored to reduce annotation effort in terms offinancial cost and time.
The most difficultchallenge to face will be the splitting of acomplicated annotation scheme as It-TimeMLinto simple tasks which can be effectivelyperformed by not expert contributors.AcknowledgmentsThe development of the CELCT corpus hasbeen supported by the LiveMemories project(Active Digital Memories of Collective Life),funded by the Autonomous Province of Trentounder the Major Projects 2006 researchprogram.
We would like to thank AlessandroMarchetti, Giovanni Moretti and MarcVerhagen who collaborated with us inprocessing and annotating the CELCT corpus.150ReferencesAndr?
Bittar.
2008.
Annotation des informationstemporelles dans des textes en fran?ais,.
InProceedings of RECITAL 2008, Avignon, France.Andr?
Bittar.
2010.
Building a TimeBank for French:A Reference Corpus Annotated According to theISO-TimeML Standard.
PhD Thesis.Andrea Setzer and Robert Gaizauskas.2001.
A PilotStudy On Annotating Temporal Relations In Text.In: Proceedings of the ACL 2001 Workshop onTemporal and Spatial Information Processing.Bernardo Magnini, Emanuele Pianta, ChristianGirardi, Matteo Negri, Lorenza Romano, ManuelaSperanza, Valentina Bartalesi Lenzi and RacheleSprugnoli.
2006.
I-CAB: the Italian ContentAnnotation Bank.
In Proceedings of LREC 2006,Genova, Italy.Bernardo Magnini, Matteo Negri, Emanuele Pianta,Manuela Speranza, Valentina Bartalesi Lenzi, andRachele Sprugnoli.
2006.
Italian ContentAnnotation Bank (I-CAB): Temporal Expressions(V.2.0).
Technical Report, FBK-irst.Carlota S. Smith.
1991.
The Parameter of Aspect.Kluwer, Dordrecht.Collin F., Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.
1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet project.
In:Proceedings of the COLING-ACL, pages 86-90.Montreal, Canada.Elena Filatova and Eduard Hovy.
2001.
AssigningTime-Stamps To Event-Clauses.
In: Proceedingsof the ACL 2001 Workshop on Temporal andSpatial Information Processing.Emmon Bach.
1986.
The algebra of events.Linguistics and Philosophy, 9, 5?16.Graham Katz and Fabrizio Arosio.
2001.
TheAnnotation Of Temporal Information In NaturalLanguage Sentences.
In: Proceedings of the ACL2001 Workshop on Temporal and SpatialInformation Processing.ISO: Language Resource Management ?
SemanticAnnotation Framework (SemAF) - Part 1: Timeand Events.
Secretariat KATS, August 2007.
ISOReport ISO/TC37/SC4 N269 version 19 (ISO/WD24617-1).James Pustejovsky, Jessica Littman and Roser Saur?.2006b.
Argument Structure in TimeML.
In:Graham Katz, James Pustejovsky and FrankSchilder (eds.)
Dagstuhl Seminar Proceedings.Internationales Begegnungs- undForschungszentrum (IB-FI), Schloss Dagstuhl,Germany.James Pustejovsky, Jessica Littman, Roser Saur?, andMarc Verhagen.
2006a.
TimeBank 1.2Documentation.http://timeml.org/site/timebank/documentation-1.2.htmlJames Pustejovsky, Jos?
Casta?o, Robert Ingria,Roser Saur?, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzerand Graham Katz.
2003a.
TimeML: RobustSpecification of Event and Temporal Expressionsin Text.
In: Proceedings of IWCS-5, FifthInternational Workshop on ComputationalSemantics.James Pustejovsky, Patrick Hanks, Roser, Saur?,Andrew See, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer,Dragomir Radev, Beth Sundheim, David Day,LisaFerro, and Marcia Lazo.
2003b.
The TIMEBANKcorpus.
In: Proceedings of Corpus Linguistics2003, pages 647-656.Marc Verhagen, Roser Saur?, Tommaso Caselli andJames Pustejovsky.
2010.
SemEval-2010 Task 13:TempEval-2.
In: Proceedings of the 5thInternational Workshop on Semantic Evaluation.Mark G. Core and James F. Allen.
1997.
CodingDialogs with the DAMSL Annotation Scheme.
In:Working Notes of AAAI Fall Symposium onCommunicative Action in Humans and Machines.Nicoletta Calzolari, and Tommaso Caselli 2009.Short Report on the FLaReNet / SILT Workshopand Panel on Semantic Annotation, TR-ILC-CNR.Pier Marco Bertinetto.
1991.
Il verbo.
In: R. L. andG.
Salvi (eds.)
Grande Grammatica Italiana diConsultazione, volume II, pages 13-161.
IlMulino.Ron Artstein and Massimo Poesio.
Inter-coderagreement for computational linguistics.Computational Linguistics, pages 555?596, 2008.Seohyun Im, Hyunjo You, Hayun Jang, SeunghoNam, and Hyopil Shin.
2009.
KTimeML:Specification of Temporal and Event Expressionsin Korean Text.
In: Proceedings of the 7thworkshop on Asian Language Resources inconjunction with ACL-IJCNLP 2009, Suntec City,Singapore.TimeML Working Group.
2010.
TimeMLAnnotation Guidelines version 1.3.Manuscript,Brandeis University.151
