Proceedings of BioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop, pages 147?148,Portland, Oregon, USA, 24 June, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetecting Entity Relations as a Supporting Taskfor Bio-Molecular Event ExtractionSofie Van Landeghem1,2, Thomas Abeel1,2,3, Bernard De Baets4 and Yves Van de Peer1,21.
Dept.
of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, Belgium2.
Dept.
of Plant Biotechnology and Genetics, Ghent University, Belgium3.
Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA4.
Dept.
of Applied Mathematics, Biometrics and Process Control, Ghent University, Belgiumyves.vandepeer@psb.ugent.beAbstractRecently, the focus in the BioNLP domainhas shifted from binary relations to more ex-pressive event representations, largely owingto the international popularity of the BioNLPShared Task (ST) of 2009.
This year, theST?11 provides a further generalization onthree key aspects: text type, subject domain,and targeted event types.
One of the sup-porting tasks established to provide more fine-grained text predictions is the extraction of en-tity relations.
We have implemented an ex-traction system for such non-causal relationsbetween named entities and domain terms, ap-plying semantic spaces and machine learningtechniques.
Our system ranks second of fourparticipating teams, achieving 37.04% preci-sion, 47.48% recall and 41.62% F-score.1 IntroductionUnderstanding complex noun phrases with embed-ded gene symbols is crucial for a correct interpre-tation of text mining results (Van Landeghem et al,2010).
Such non-causal relations between a nounphrase and its embedded gene symbol are referredto as entity relations.
As a supporting task forthe BioNLP ST?11, we have studied two types ofsuch entity relations: Subunit-Complex and Protein-Component.
These relationships may occur withina single noun phrase, but also between two differentnoun phrases.
A few examples are listed in Table 1;more details on the datasets and definitions of entityrelations can be found in (Pyysalo et al, 2011).Valid entity relations involve one GGP (gene orgene product) and one domain term (e.g.
?pro-moter?)
and they always occur within a single sen-tence.
In the first step towards classification of entityrelations, we have calculated the semantic similar-ity between domain terms (Section 2).
Supervisedlearning techniques are then applied to select sen-tences likely to contain entity relations (Section 3).Finally, domain terms are identified with a novelrule-based system and linked to the correspondingGGP in the sentence (Section 4).2 Semantic analysisTo fully understand the relationship between a GGPand a domain term, it is necessary to account forsynonyms and lexical variants.
We have imple-mented two strategies to capture this textual varia-tion, grouping semantically similar words together.The first method takes advantage of manual anno-tations of semantic categories in the GENIA eventcorpus.
This corpus contains manual annotation ofvarious domain terms such as promoters, complexesand other biological entities in 1000 PubMed arti-cles (Kim et al, 2008).The second method relies on statistical proper-ties of nearly 15.000 articles, collected by search-ing PubMed articles involving human transcriptionfactor blood cells.
From these articles, we havethen calculated a semantic space using latent seman-tic analysis (LSA) as implemented by the S-SpacePackage (Jurgens and Stevens, 2010).
The algo-rithm results in high-dimensional vectors that rep-resent word contexts, and similar vectors then re-fer to semantically similar words.
We have appliedthe Markov Cluster algorithm (MCL) (van Dongen,2000) to group semantically similar terms together.147Type of relation ExamplesSubunit-Complex ?the c-fos content of [AP-1]?
/ ?c-jun, a component of the transcription factor [AP-1]?Protein-Component ?the [IL-3 promoter]?
/ ?the activating [ARRE-1 site] in the IL-2 promoter?Table 1: Examples of entity relations.
GGPs are underlined and domain terms are delimited by square brackets.3 Machine learning frameworkOur framework tries to define for each GGP in thedata whether it is part of any of the two entity re-lations, by analysing the sentence context.
To cap-ture the lexical information for each sentence, wehave derived bag-of-word features.
In addition, 2-and 3-grams were extracted from the sentence.
Fi-nally, the content of the gene symbol was also usedas lexical information.
All lexical information inthe feature vectors has undergone generalization byblinding the gene symbol with ?protx?
and all otherco-occurring gene symbols with ?exprotx?.
Further-more, terms occurring in the semantic lexicons de-scribed in Section 2 were mapped to the correspond-ing cluster number or category.
For each generaliza-tion, a blinded and a non-blinded variant is includedin the feature vector.Dependency graphs were further analysed for theextraction of grammatical patterns consisting of twonodes (word tokens) and their intermediate edge(grammatical relation).
For the nodes, the same gen-eralization rules as in the previous paragraph are ap-plied.
Finally, similar patterns are generated withthe nodes represented by their part-of-speech tag.The final feature vectors, representing sentenceswith exactly one tagged gene symbol, are classifiedusing an SVM with a radial basis function as kernel.An optimal parameter setting (C and gamma) forthis kernel was obtained by 5-fold cross-validationon the training data.4 Entity detectionOnce a sentence with a gene symbol is classified ascontaining a certain type of entity relation, it is nec-essary to find the exact domain term that is relatedto that gene symbol.
To this end, we have designeda pattern matching algorithm that searches within agiven window (number of tokens) around the genesymbol.
The window size is increased to a prede-fined maximum as long as a maximal number of do-main terms was not found.Within the search window, a rule-based algorithmdecides whether a given token qualifies as a relevantdomain term, employing first a high-precision dic-tionary and then high-recall dictionaries.5 ResultsOur system achieves a global performance of37.04% precision, 47.48% recall and 41.62% F-score, coming in second place after the universityof Turku who obtained an F-score of 57.71%, andranking before Concordia University who scores32.04%.
It remains an open question why the finalresults of the top ranked systems differ so much.AcknowledgmentsSVL and TA would like to thank the Research Foun-dation Flanders (FWO) for funding their research.TA is a post doctoral fellow of the Belgian Ameri-can Education Foundation.
The authors thank JariBjo?rne for his help with the manuscript.ReferencesDavid Jurgens and Keith Stevens.
2010.
The S-Spacepackage: an open source package for word space mod-els.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2010 System Demon-strations, ACLDemos ?10, pages 30?35.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2008.Corpus annotation for mining biomedical events fromliterature.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(1):10.Sampo Pyysalo, Tomoko Ohta, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2011.Overview of the Entity Relations (REL) supportingtask of BioNLP Shared Task 2011.
In Proceedingsof the BioNLP 2011 Workshop Companion Volume forShared Task, June.Stijn van Dongen.
2000.
Graph Clustering by Flow Sim-ulation.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Utrecht.Sofie Van Landeghem, Sampo Pyysalo, Tomoko Ohta,and Yves Van de Peer.
2010.
Integration of static re-lations to enhance event extraction from text.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2010 Workshop on Biomedical NaturalLanguage Processing, BioNLP ?10, pages 144?152.148
