Using Topic Salience and Connotational Drifts to DetectCandidates to Semantic ChangeArmelle BoussidanL2C2, Institut des Sciences Cognitives - CNRS, Universit?
de Lyon, Bron, Francearmelle.boussidan@isc.cnrs.frSabine PlouxL2C2, Institut des Sciences Cognitives - CNRS, Universit?
de Lyon, Bron, Francesploux@isc.cnrs.frAbstractSemantic change has mostly been studied by historical linguists and typically at the scale of centuries.Here we study semantic change at a finer-grained level, the decade, making use of recent newspaper cor-pora.
We detect semantic change candidates by observing context shifts which can be triggered by topicsalience or may be independent from it.
To discriminate these phenomena with accuracy, we combinevariation filters with a series of indices which enable building a coherent and flexible semantic changedetection model.
The indices include widely adaptable tools such as frequency counts, co-occurrencepatterns and networks, ranks, as well as model-specific items such as a variability and cohesion mea-sure and graphical representations.
The research uses ACOM, a co-occurrence based geometrical model,which is an extension of the Semantic Atlas.
Compared to other models of semantic representation, itallows for extremely detailed analysis and provides insight as to how connotational drift processes unfold.1 IntroductionSemantic change has long been analyzed and theorized upon in historical linguistics.
Its abstract andungraspable nature made its detection a difficult task for computational semantics, despite the many toolsavailable from various models of lexical treatment.
Most extant theories are based on manual analysis ofcentury long semantic drifts.
From these works we inherit various typologies and repertories of causesof change (e.g., Bloomfield (1933)).
However these types of analyses may not be suited to the large scaleproduction of text in our societies.
Not only has the quantity of produced text rocketed but its diffusionand speed of transmission has radically increased.
In this context, recent studies have yielded promisingresults, showing that computational models of semantics can deal with assessed semantic change exam-ples as well as detect candidates in corpora.
Among them, some include topic salience as an index andothers do not, as they rather try to quantify semantic change with reliable measures.
In an era of infor-mation overflow, topic change takes on a new linguistic value, as it may be responsible for extremelyquick paced semantic change, which can be ephemeral or become fixed.
Topic salience might as wellbe a sociologically induced or press phenomenon with no semantic impact at all.
However when bothtopic salience and connotational drift take place, a semantic phenomenon may be at stake.
Our analysisis anchored in this process.
We shall briefly introduce other approaches, explain our methods and thestructure of our detection prototype (in progress) as well as give preliminary results before concludingwith a discussion.2 Measuring semantic change : previous workTo measure semantic change, one has to evaluate the semantics of a lexical item at a given point.
Todo so, semantic similarity measures in vector spaces or geometrical spaces may be used to compare the315item with its own occurrences at later points.
This method has been applied in Sagi et al (2009), wheresemantic density was calculated as the average angle between vectors in a semantic space.
The variabil-ity of that density was observed for the same lexical item at different points in time.
Density measureswere applied to a series of acknowledged semantic change cases, in the Project Gutenberg Corpus, ahistorical corpus of English organized by documents.
Results mostly include broadening and narrowingcases.
The same method yielded results on the difference between nominal and verbal types of change,showing that verbs were more likely to change than nouns (Sagi (2010)).Cook and Stevenson (2010) also used assessed cases from the historical linguistics literature.
Theydetected changes in the semantic orientation of words (or polarity shifts) namely amelioration and pejo-ration.
They then applied this methodology to detect possible un-assessed candidates.
They used threeEnglish corpora as corpus slices, covering approximately a four century time-span.Volatility has also been assessed by Holz and Teresniak (2010), who adapted a measure from economet-rics to quantify semantic change in a time sliced corpus.
The volatility measure relied on the computationof the rank series for every co-occurent term and on the coefficient of variation of all co-occurrent terms(Holz and Teresniak (2010)).
The method was applied to search words in modern corpora in German andEnglish (the Wortschatz and the New York Times).
The strong point of this measure is that it is indepen-dent from word frequency, however it does not provide detailed analysis about the underlying semanticprocesses.3 MethodsOf the three cited works, our approach is closer to that of Holz and Teresniak (2010) in that boththeir work and ours are conducted on very recent corpora.
We are currently conducting short diachronydetection, analysis and representation on a modern press corpus in French (the newspapers Le Monde,1997-2007).
We use the ACOM model (Ji et al (2003)) an extension of the Semantic Atlas Model (Plouxet al (2010)) that uses factor analysis to provide geometrical representations of word co-occurrence incorpus (both models are freely available on http://dico.isc.cnrs.fr/eng/index.html).The model relies on cliques, which are organized subsets of co-occurrent words, from which clusteringcan be made.
To extract co-occurrent words, we apply ACOM on a time-sliced corpus.
For each slicet, a word-association table is constructed using all headwords (see Ploux et al (2010) for a completemethodological description).
Each headword W it (1?i?N , where N is the total number of types in thecorpus slice) has children (cjs) that are arranged in descending order of co-occurrence with W it 1:W it : c1; c2; .
.
.
; cnWe apply two factors to filter this table: ?
where 0??
?1 to eliminate the rarely co-occurring childrenof W in :W it : c1; c2; .
.
.
; ckwhere k = n?
and n is the original number of children of W it , and ?
where ?(0?
?
?1) to cut off rarelyco-occurring of children of cj :(cmj : g1; g2; .
.
.
; gl(1?j?k; l = m?
))On the basis of that table, cliques are calculated.
The notion of clique is taken from graph theory (ongraph therory see for ex.
Golumbic (2004)).
Mathematically, cliques are maximum connected sub-graphs.
In our case, the nodes are contexonyms.
Then, correspondence factor analysis is applied (Ben-z?cri (1980)) and the ?2 distance is calculated between pairs of cliques to obtain a multidimensionalspace.
A hierarchical clustering algorithm clusters cliques in thematic sets at several degrees of detail.Clusters show broad topic shifts whereas the cliques show fine-grained sub-organisation.
Therefore themodel allows for very detailed analysis as well as topical analysis.
It also provides a graphic visualizationfor the semantics of a word.
With the time-sliced corpus, we may extract maps for each subpart of the1Children with co-occurrences under a 10,000th of the global frequency of the headword W it are removed to reduce noise.316corpus and compare the spaces generated for the same word at different points in time, to complete theanalysis.3.1 Structure of the detection prototypeCurrently our model is structured as follows: the corpus is transformed into a time-sliced ACOMdatabase, with word frequencies and co-occurence frequencies.
We apply an adjustable standard de-viation filter to extract significant frequency and co-occurrence frequency variations as well as co-occurrence network variations.
(The co-occurrence window is adjustable to the sentence, paragraphor other window sizes).
If we only detect frequency variation, there is a suspicion that the headwordmight undergo context variation later, but it could also be an ephemeral press or fashion phenomenonwith no semantic impact.
However if we detect both significant frequency variations and co-occurrencevariations, there is a higher chance that the context variations are a reflection of semantic variation.
Atthis stage we apply indices based on rank variation, clique analysis and clique-term variation analysis(described in Boussidan et al (2010)) as well as manual analysis to determine the nature of the change.The next step to verify that the item has undergone semantic change is its stabilization over time.
Thisdetection path highlights short diachronic change.
We may also detect significant co-occurence varia-tions with no significant headword frequency variation, in which case we may apply directly the indicesto check whether the context shifts reveal an anchored meaning shift.
If the indices highlight a meaningshift, the former is necessarily much more subtle than the short diachronic change that we detected pre-viously.
It might be the reflection of a longer term process of which the trigger might not be containedin the given corpus.4 Preliminary results4.1 Testing examplesTo conceive a detection model, we first conducted experiments using attested examples or usingwords that we selected after manually observing that a shift was taking place.
By testing these examples,we could extract data about how the model would render them so as to use it to create detection indicesand parameters.
Among these was the French word malbouffe (literally "bad grub" or "junk food"), aneology selected from a previously established list of new dictionary entries (Martinez (2009)).
Thecorpus showed how the different spellings of the words alternated before yielding the current one.
Anal-ysis of the co-occurrence networks showed that one of the most important co-occurrent words, Bov?, thename of a French political actor, had almost the same co-occurrence network as malbouffe.
From thisobservation and after comparing definitions and previous contexts of use, we could infer that this persongave the word malbouffe its new meaning, by superimposing political values on it, on top of its dieteticvalues.
Co-occurrence networks therefore allowed us to analyse the process of meaning shift.
The fullanalysis of this example may be found in Boussidan et al (2009).We also tested a more subtle connotational drift with the word mondialisation ("globalization"), whichundergoes clear contextual change in the corpus.
The word first appeared in contexts defined by thepolitical, economical and intellectual positions it brings about, with strong co-occurrents such as d?fi(?challenge?
), progr?s (?progress") or menace (?threat?).
It then drifted into a complete network ofwords related to one single French political movement of anti-globalization in 2001.
Therefore the useof mondialisation gained a new connotation, whereas its synonym globalisation ("globalization") re-mained quite neutral politically.
The analysis of this example revealed that some terms were used aspivots, providing linkage between the existing cliques and the new ones.
Pivots therefore provided agood tool to observe meaning re-organisation.
The full analysis of this example may be found in Boussi-dan et al (2010) and the corresponding dynamic representation on http://dico.isc.cnrs.fr/en/diachro.html.4.2 Semantic change detectionOn the basis of these preliminary examples, we designed a semantic change detection prototype.Testing examples brought to light the difficulty of discriminating press-related topic salience with no317semantic impact from topic salience with a semantic impact.
Detection is conducted in three stages.
Thefirst stage relies on frequency variation to extract topic variations of context in the corpus.
For instanceby setting the filter to retain words for which the coefficient of variation2 is higher than 0.5, we obtain alist of words that may be classified into three loose semantic sets and a fourth set grouping all indepen-dent items.
These semantic sets include words related to:?
war, terrorism and violence?
technology?
illnessBy adjusting the settings we mayalso include more subtle topic variations if needed or conversely, looserones.
The second stage involves co-occurrence variation so as to extract the changes in semantic networksand thus in connation, for a lexical item.
For instance, we detected that the word logiciel ("software")underwent a frequency co-occurrence peak with libre ("free") in January 2001.
The expression logiciellibre stands for "freeware" and has been renamed gratuiciel or graticiel (a blending of gratuit, "free"with logiciel, "software") in Quebec.
We therefore detect a new compositional expression that coins aFrench equivalent to the word freeware used until then.Another example of connotational drift is the word navigation ("navigation") which is only attestedin the TLFI3 and the Dictionnaire Historique de la Langue Fran?aise (Rey et al (1998)), under the mean-ing relating to transport, firstly on seas and rivers and then via plane or spaceship.
However, between1997 and 2001 the word takes on a new major meaning in internet search, meaning "browsing".
This isaparent when looking at the co-occurrence patterns of navigation with words related to technology andcomparing them with co-occurrences of words related to transport.
The technology words show peaksbetween 1997 and 2001 and then lower frequencies until 2007, whereas the transport words show stableuse all the way through the corpus.
The new use of navigation, however is almost obsolete now in spokenspeech -or at least it has gone out of fashion- but the semantics of navigation have clearly integrated anadditional domain and broadened.
A simple search of French results on Google provides 5,500,000 doc-uments for navigation internet, among which are a lot of recent ones.
However the meaning to search theinternet grew from the name of a specific web navigator: the Netscape Navigator which was widespreadin the 1990s but is no longer supported nowadays.Both previous stages provide us with candidates to semantic change.
The last stage is the stabilizationof a connotational drift, whether it is a broadening, a narrowing, a domain shift or other.
We are currentlyworking on this last index.
We often find that when a word undergoes semantic change, it goes througha phase of onomasiological competition in which other possible candidates may in turn become the newbearers of certain meanings.
For navigation for instance, the word surf was a competitor, however bothwords now sound obsolete.
It may be that none of them wins the competition, in which case the concepthas become so deeply anchored in language and society that it does not need naming any more.5 Discussion and Future WorkSince semantic phenomena, whether synchronic or diachronic, are very much corpus specific, it isdifficult to conceive of a large scale universal detection method for them.
However, tools may be builtto be highly flexible in order to allow users to adjust settings to adapt to the corpus they deal with.
Thisflexibility may encompass genre and stylistic variations when working with the same language as wellas adaptation to a completely different language.
We are considering global evaluations of the corpora?sstylistics to avoid the detection of corpus specfic phenomena instead of broader language phenomena.2The coefficient of variation is the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean3http://atilf.atilf.fr/tlf.htm318Ideally the model should also be able to deal with timescale differences.The precise adjustment of thesesettings is part of our future research avenues along with incorporating an index for stabilization.
Thislast filter is particularly difficult to create when dealing with ongoing phenomena.
We may sometimesneed to wait a few years to be able to establish whether a semantic change has stabilized.To summarize, we are currently developing a filtering tool to extract candidates to semantic change onthe basis of topic salience variation in corpus and co-occurrence network variation.
Our approach shedlight on the emergence of these phenomena at a very detailed level.
Preliminary results showed that thetool was succesful at extracting those candidates; however it is not yet advanced enough to discriminatebetween context changes that affect a word without semantic impact and those that do have a semanticimpact.
This aspect constitutes our current research perspective.6 AcknowledgementsThis research is supported by the R?gion Rh?ne-Alpes, via the Cible Project 2009.
Many thanks toSylvain Lupone, previously engineer at the L2c2 for the tools he developed in this research?s framework.ReferencesBenz?cri, J.-P. (1980).
L?analyse des donn?es : l?analyse des correspondances.
Paris: Bordas.Bloomfield, L. (1933).
Language.
New York: Allen and Unwin.Boussidan, A., S. Lupone, and S. Ploux (2009).
La malbouffe : un cas de n?ologie et de glissements?mantique fulgurants.
In "Du th?me au terme, ?mergence et lexicalisation des connaissances",Toulouse, France.
8 ?me conf?rence internationale Terminologie et Intelligence Artificielle.Boussidan, A., A.-L. Renon, C. Franco, S. Lupone, and S. Ploux (2010).
Vers une m?thode de visualisa-tion graphique de la diachronie des n?ologies.
Tubingen, Germany.
Colloque N?ologie s?mantique etCorpus.
in press.Cook, P. and S. Stevenson (2010).
Automatically identifying changes in the semantic orientation ofwords.
In Proceedings of the Seventh conference on International Language Resources and Evalua-tion, Valletta,Malta.
LREC 2010.Golumbic, M. (2004).
Algorithmic graph theory and perfect graphs.
North-Holland.Holz, F. and S. Teresniak (2010).
Towards automatic detection and tracking of topic change.
Computa-tional Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing, 327?339.Ji, H., S. Ploux, and E. Wehrli (2003).
Lexical knowledge representation with contexonyms.
Proceedingsof the 9th Machine Translation Summit, 194?201.Martinez, C. (2009).
L?
?volution de l?orthographe dans les Petit Larousse et les Petit Robert 1997-2008:une approche g?n?alogique du texte lexicographique.
Ph.
D. thesis, Universit?
de Cergy-Pontoise.Ploux, S., A. Boussidan, and H. Ji (2010).
The semantic atlas: an interactive model of lexical representa-tion.
In Proceedings of the Seventh conference on International Language Resources and Evaluation,Valletta, Malta.
LREC 2010.Rey, A., T.
Hord?, and L. Robert (1998).
Dictionnaire historique de la langue fran?aise : contenant lesmots fran?ais en usage et quelques autres d?laiss?s, avec leur origine proche et lointaine.
Paris.Sagi, E. (2010).
Nouns are more stable than verbs: Patterns of semantic change in 19th century english.Portland, OR.
32nd AnnualConference of the Cognitive Science Society.
to be published.Sagi, E., S. Kaufmann, and B. Clark (2009).
Semantic density analysis: Comparing word meaning acrosstime and phonetic space.
In GEMS: GEometrical Models of Natural Language Semantics.
EACL.319
