Proceedings of the 5th ACL-HLT Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 24?32,Portland, OR, USA, 24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational Linguisticse-Research for LinguistsDorothee BeermannNorwegian University of Scienceand TechnologyTrondheim, Norwaydorothee.beermann@hf.ntnu.noPavel MihaylovOntotext,Sofia, Bulgariapavel@ontotext.comAbstracte-Research explores the possibilities offeredby ICT for science and technology.
Its goal isto allow a better access to computing power,data and library resources.
In essence e-Research is all about cyberstructure and beingconnected in ways that might change how weperceive scientific creation.
The present workadvocates open access to scientific data for lin-guists and language experts working withinthe Humanities.
By describing the modules ofan online application, we would like to out-line how a linguistic tool can help the lin-guist.
Work with data, from its creation toits integration into a publication is not rarelyperceived as a chore.
Given the right toolshowever, it can become a meaningful part ofthe linguistic investigation.
The standard for-mat for linguistic data in the Humanities is In-terlinear Glosses.
As such they represent avaluable resource even though linguists tendto disagree about the role and the methodsby which data should influence linguistic ex-ploration (Lehmann, 2004).
In describing thecomponents of our system we focus on the po-tential that this tool holds for real-time data-sharing and continuous dissemination of re-search results throughout the life-cycle of alinguistic project.1 IntroductionWithin linguistics the management of research datahas become of increasing interest.
This is partiallydue to the growing number of linguists that feelcommitted to the documentation and preservationof endangered and minority languages (Rice, 1994).Modern approaches to Language Description andDocumentation are not possible without the tech-nology that allows the creation, retrieval and stor-age of diverse data types.
A field whose main aimis to provide a comprehensive record of languageconstructions and rules (Himmelmann, 1998) is cru-cially dependent on software that supports the effort.Talking to the language documentation communityBird (2009) lists as some of the immediate tasks thatlinguists need help with; interlinearization of text,validation issues and, what he calls, the handlingof uncertain data.
In fact, computers always haveplayed an important role in linguistic research.
Start-ing out as machines that were able to increase theefficiency of text and data management, they havebecome tools that allow linguists to pursue researchin ways that were not previously possible.1 Given anincreased interest in work with naturally occurringlanguage, a new generation of search engines for on-line corpora have appeared with more features thatfacilitate a linguistic analysis (Biemann et al, 2004).The creation of annotated corpora from private datacollections, is however, still mainly seen as a taskthat is only relevant to smaller groups of linguistsand anthropologists engaged in Field Work.
Shoe-box/Toolbox is probably the oldest software espe-cially designed for this user group.Together with theFieldwork Language Explorer (FLEx), also devel-1We would like to cite Tognini-Bonelli (2001) who speaksfor corpus linguistics and (Bird, 2009) who discusses NaturalLanguage Processing and its connection to the field of Lan-guage Documentation as sources describing this process.24oped by SIL2, and ELAN3 which helps with multi-media annotation, this group of applications is prob-ably the best known set of linguistic tools specialisedin supporting Field Linguists.A central task for linguistic field workers isthe interlinearization of text which is needed forthe systematisation of hand-written notes andtranscripts of audio material.
The other centralconcern of linguists working with small and en-dangered languages is the creation of lexica.
FLExtherefore integrates a lexicon (a word component),and a grammar (a text interlinearization component).The system that is described here, assists with thecreation of interlinear glosses.
However, the focusis on data exchange and data excavation.
Data fromthe Humanities, including linguistic data, is time-consuming to produce.
However, in spite of the ef-fort, this data is often not particularly reusable.
Stan-dardly it exists exclusively as an example in a pub-lication.
Glosses tend to be elementary and relativeto a specific research question.
Some grammaticalproperties are annotated but others that are essentialfor the understanding of the examples in isolationmight have been left out, or are only mentioned inthe surrounding text.
Source information is rarelyprovided.The tool presented in this paper tries to facilitatethe idea of creating re-usable data gathered fromstandard linguistic practices, including collectionsreflecting the researcher?s intuition and her linguis-tic competence, as well as data derived from directedlinguistic interviews and discussions with other lin-guists or native speakers resulting in sentence collec-tion derived from hand-written notes or transcriptsof recordings.
Different from natural language pro-cessing tools and on a par with other linguistic toolsour target user group is ?non-technologically ori-ented linguists?
(Schmidt, 2010) who tend to workwith small, noisy data collections.2 General system descriptionOur tool consists of a relational database combinedwith a tabular text editor for the manual creation of2SIL today stands for International Partners in LanguageDevelopment.3http://www.lat-mpi.eu/tools/elan/text annotations wrapped into a wiki which serves asa general entrance port and collaboration tool.
Thesystem is loaded in a browser.
The customised wikiserves as an access point to the database.
Usingstandard wiki functionality we direct the user to thedatabase via New text, My texts, and Text- or Phrasesearch.
My texts displays the user?s repository ofannotations called ?Texts?.
The notion of Text doesnot only refer to coherent texts, but to any collectionof individual phrases.
My texts, the user?s privatespace, is divided into two sections: Own texts andShared texts.
This reflects the graded access designof the system.
Users administer their own data intheir private space, but they can also make use ofother users?
shared data.
In addition texts can beshared within groups of users.4Interlinear Glosses can be loaded to the sys-tems wiki where they can be displayed publicallyor printed out as part of a customized wiki page.As an additional feature the exported data automat-ically updates when the natural language databasechanges.Comparing the present tool with other linguis-tic tools without a RDBMS in the background, itseems that the latter tools falter when it comes todata queries.
Although both the present system andFLEx share some features, technically they are quitedistinct.
FLEx is a single-user desktop system with awell designed integration of interlinear glossing anddictionary creation facilities (Rogers, 2010), whilethe present system is an online application for thecreation of interlinear glosses specialised in the ex-change of interlinear glosses.
The system not only?moves data around?
easily, its Interlinear Glosser,described in the following section, makes also datacreation easier.
The system tries to utilise the ef-fect of collaboration between individual users andlinguistic resource integration to support the fur-ther standardisation of linguistic data.
Our tag setsfor word and morpheme glossing are rooted in theLeipzig Glossing Rules, but have been extended andconnected to ontological grammatical information.In addition we offer sentence level annotations.Glossing rules are conventional standards and oneway to spread them is (a) to make already existing4At present data sets can only be shared with one pre-definedgroup of users at the time.25standards easily accessible at the point where theyare actively used and (b) to connect the people en-gaged in e-Research to create a community.
Gloss-ing standards as part of linguistic research must bepre- defined, yet remain negotiable.
Scientific datain the Humanities is mainly used for qualitative anal-ysis and has an inbuilt factor of uncertainty, that is,linguists compare, contrast and analyse data wherewhere uncertainty about the relation between actualoccurring formatives and grammatical concepts ispart of the research process and needs to be accom-modated also by annotation tools and when it comesto standardisation.2.1 Interlinear Glossing OnlineAfter having imported a text into the Editor which iseasily accessed from the site?s navigation bar (Newtext), the text is run through a simple, but efficientsentence splitter.
The user can then select via mouseclick one of the phrases and in such a way enter intothe annotation mode.
The editor?s interface is shownin Figure 1.The system is designed for annotation in a multi-lingual setting.
The user starts annotating by choos-ing the language for the text that she has loadedto the system from an integrated ISO-language list.Many languages of Africa are known under differ-ent names and it therefore is useful to find a directlink to the web version of Ethnologue, a SIL Inter-national resource.
Ethnologue can for example helpwith identifying alternative language names and of-fers useful pointers to SIL publications.
The presentsystem distinguishes between different levels of an-notation.
Free translational glosses, standard forall interlinear glosses, and what we call construc-tion descriptions are sentence level annotations; sois Global Tagging.
These global tags can be selectedin the form of eight construction parametersConstruction kernel: transitiveVerb, reflexive-Verb, multiplePredicate, transitiveOblique-Verb,...Situation: causation, intention, communication,emotional-experienced, ...Frame alternation: passive, middle, reflexive, pas-sive+applicative, ...Secondary predicates: infinitivial, free gerund, re-sultative,...Discourse function: topicalisation, presentation-als, rightReordering,...Modality: deontic, episthemic, optative, realis, ir-realis,...Force: declarative, hortative, imperative, ...Polarity: positive, negativeThe field Construction description is meant forkeeping notes, for example in those cases where thecategorisation of grammatical units poses problemsfor the annotator.
Meta data information is not en-tered using the Interlinear Glosser but the systemswiki where it is stored relative to texts.
The textscan then fully or partially be loaded to the Interlin-ear Glosser.
Using the wiki?s Corpus namespace theuser can import texts up to an individual size of 3500words.
We use an expandable Metadata template toprompt to user for the standard bibliographic infor-mation, as well as information about Text type, An-notator and Contributor.
At present the corpus textsand the annotated data needs to be linked manually.Word- and morpheme level annotation representsthe centre piece of the annotation interface which ap-pears as a simple table.
Information is ordered hor-izontally and vertically, so that words and morphsare aligned vertically with their Baseform, Meaning,Gloss and Part of speech information.
From the an-notation table the user can chose one of the wordsand mark it as Head adding some basic syntactic in-formation.
Annotation can be partial and the idea isthat free class morphemes are annotated for mean-ing while closed class items receive a gloss.
Morphsmay be accompanied by null to many glosses lead-ing to enumerations of gloss symbols when neces-sary.Each phrase has a unique identifier.
This meansthat a data token can be shared freely online.
Theuse case in Figure 2 illustrates this point.Next to real-time data-sharing it is mainly the easyaccess to the relevant linguistic resources that facili-tates manual annotation.55With the Lazy Annotation Mode (LAM) we offer an ad-ditional function that automatically enriches annotation tables26Figure 1: The Interlinear GlosserThree users of our system work together on the Bantu language Runyankore-Rukiga, a Bantu language spoken in Uganda.
The language has nodigital resources and annotated text is hard to come by.
The group members experience a a lot of uncertainty in the selection of gloss values.
Whileone of them is a lecturer at Makerere University in Kampala the other two study abroad.
Mulogo attends class today, the topic is Tense and Aspect.He remembers that Ojore who tends to work at home has recently annotated his Field Work transcripts for his thesis on Tense and Aspect.
Ojorehappens to be online.
Mulogo quickly asks Ojore if he could link him the two examples that he had mentioned the other day.
They illustrated theco-occurrences of the immediate past and the perfective marker -ire.
Ojore links him the tokens in Skype.
Mulogo opens them in his browser andasks the teacher if he could project the examples after the break for some discussion.
Meanwhile Ojore discovers that Dembe had in some contextsidentified a morpheme that he has glossed as the immediate past as a present tense marker.
Dembe is not online right now, so he links the twocrucial examples to her in an e-mail.
Normally they talk online in the morning when the connection to Kampala is better.
He also adds a note to theconstruction description of the tokens for Mulogo and Dembe to read later.Figure 2: A use case illustrating real-time data sharing27First of all lists over tags can be accessed fromthe wiki navigation bar where they are automaticallyupdated when the database changes.
The tag listscan be ordered either according to Gloss class or al-phabetically.
Short explanations for the glosses areprovided.
We have grouped all glosses into annota-tion classes and mapped them to the GOLD (Gen-eral Ontology for Linguistic Description) ontology(See Figure 3).
The idea behind Gold (Farrar andLangendoen, 2003) is to facilitate a more standard-ised use of basic grammatical features.
As an OWLontology it presents features in terms of categoriesand their relations.
At this point the integration withGOLD is only light-weight and meant to give usersof the system direct access to an ontology over gram-matical types supplemented by bibliographic infor-mation and further examples showing the use of cat-egories.
This way essential information is madeavailable at the point where it is needed.
Uncertaintyabout the meaning of gloss can be reduced this way.An important feature of the Interlinear Glosser isthat it allows export of data to some of the main texteditors - Microsoft Word, OpenOffice.org Writerand LaTeX.
The example below illustrates an ex-ported interlinear gloss.
In addition to export fromthe Interlinear Glosser, individual or sets of interlin-ear glosses can be exported from the SEARCH inter-face which we will discuss in the next section.
Offer-ing a solution to the issue of wrapping (Bow et al,2003), which arises for the representation of inter-linear glosses for long sentences,6 the system allowsa clean representation of annotated sentences of anylength.
In general the alignment of morphemes andglosses (optionally indicated by a dotted line) formsthe body of the interlinear gloss, while the originalstring and the free translation are wrapped indepen-dentlywith word related information already known to the database.LAM annotations need to be evaluated by the human annota-tor.
They have only a limited value for languages with a richsystem of allomorphic variation, but they are quite helpful oth-erwise even for languages with a rich portmanteau morphemes.In Toolbox this function is called ?sentence parsing?6What is a long sentence is a relative issue which is not onlydetermined by the number of words that a sentence consists of,but also by the length of the enumeration of gloss tags that arealigned with each of the individual morphemes.Omu nju hakataahamu abagyenyim nj hkthm bgyngyOmuinn juCL9 househa ka taah a muCL16 PST enter IND LOCa ba gyenyiIV CL2 visitorPREP N V N?In the house entered visitors?The example illustrates locative inversion inRuyankore-Rukiga, a Bantu language spoken inUganda.
The translational and functional glosses,which belong to two distinct tiers in our editor, ap-pear as one line when imported to a word-processor.Although glossing on several tiers is conceptuallymore appropriate, linguistic publications require amore condensed format.Although to annotate manually is time consuming,it is the re-usability of the data that pays off.
Theease with which already existing data can be ex-ported from the system in order to be integrated intopublications is one way to make this point.In addition to export to Text Editors the systemallows also from the graphical user interface the ex-port of XML.
The Akan sentence a`kye?rEw n`ho`ma?no` , meaning ?he has written the letter?
(see Figure1) is given as an XML structure in Figure 4.
No-tice that Construction descriptions and Global tagsare exported together with the word- and morphemeannotations.
Used for machine to machine commu-nication, the XML rendering of interlinear glossseshas interested the linguistic community (see for ex-ample (Bow et al, 2003)) as a means to find a gen-eralised model for interlinear text.2.2 SearchData queries operate on phrases, which means thatthe result of a query is a phrase level representation.Each line (or block) of the search result representsan individual sentence.7 Lists of sentences, as theresult of a search, are more easily evaluated by hu-man observers than lines of concordances.
Searchresults come as either lines of sentences which al-low a first quick scan of the data or as blocks ofinterlinear glosses.
This latter search output givesthe linguist access to the sentence internal annota-tions.
Using general browser functionality searchresults can easily be scanned.
The system allows forcomplex searches from the graphical interface whereword or morpheme queries can relatively freely becombined with a search for specific glosses or com-7or sentence fragment such as a noun phrase28Figure 3: Mapping between system-tags and GOLD conceptsFigure 4: XML export29binations of glosses.
Search for portmanteau mor-phemes as well as for word-level co-occurrences ofglosses is facilitated by allowing the user to deter-mine the scope of gloss-co-occurrence which caneither be the morph, the word or the phrase level.Queries are used to establish inter-annotator consis-tency, as well as to which degree an annotator is con-sistent in her annotations.
For example, a searchof 1154 Runyankore-Rukiga sentences, annotatedby three different native-speakers in the context ofdifferent linguistic projects, shows that the annota-tors disagree on the meaning of the morpheme -ire.It is mainly annotated as PERF(ective) Aspect, butalso as PAST, ANT(erior) and STAT(ive).
However,when the same morpheme occurs in a negative con-text -ire is in 51 out of the 53 negative sentencesannotated as expressing the perfective Aspect.8 Al-though at present aggregate functions for the SQLqueries can not be executed from the graphical userinterface, the search offered by the system is alreadyat this point a useful tool for linguistic data manage-ment.3 Free data sharing and linguisticdiscoveryCollaborative databases where individual re-searchers or groups of researchers own portions ofthe data have their own dynamics and requirementsfor maintaining data sharing, recovery and integrity.They can be used with profit as an in-class tool orby research projects, and each of these uses requiresa different set of rules for ensuring data quality andprivacy.
Annotations made by language specialistsworking on their own research reflect differences ininterest and linguistic expertise.Interesting data trends can be noticed by lookingat the annotations made by annotators independentlyworking on the same language.
We will briefly illus-trate this point with an example.We have analysed the interlinear texts of four an-notators working on individual linguistic projects inAkan, a Kwa language of Ghana.
Together theirwork represents an annotated 3302 word corpus.
Wehave analysed which glosses9 were used and howfrequently each of the glosses occurred.
The most8Date of query 03-03-20119The present survey does not cover pos tags.frequently used tags for Akan were SBJ and OBJstanding for subject and object, respectively.
Com-paring the Akan data with data coming from otherusers working on typologically distinct languages,we observe that the relative frequency in which theusers annotate for the grammatical core relations?subject?
and ?object?
differed from language to lan-guage.As shown in Table 1 the absolute number of anno-tated morphemes and the relative frequency of SBJand OBJ tags is highest for the two most configu-rational languages in our sample.
This data has tobe seen in the context of a possible use case notas the result of an empirical study.
Other data ten-dencies indicative of annotator behaviour as muchas of data properties can be observed too.
Lookingat Tense or Aspect within the same dataset showsthat Akan which is a predominantly Aspect markinglanguage (Boadi, 2008) (Osam, 2003) is by all fourannotators mostly annotated for Aspect, with fewtags for present tense.
Between the Aspect tags wefind HAB (habitual), as well as PRF and COMPL.The two latter glosses, referring to the perfective andthe completive Aspect, where ?completive Aspect?means according to Bybee ?to do something thor-oughly and to completion?, might have been used torefer to a completed event.
In the nominal domain itis the frequent use of the DEF gloss, as opposed tothe very few uses of the gloss INDEF, that highlightsthat Akan marks definiteness but not indefiniteness.Interesting is that deixis is hardly marked althoughthe definite marker in Akan has been claimed to havea deictic interpretation (Appiah Amfo, 2007).The success of real-time data sharing depends onthe trust that data consumers have in the data qual-ity.
All public data can be traced back to the an-notator through the system?s Text search.
As partof the first-time login procedure, each annotator isasked to contribute a small bio to her user page onthe system?s wiki.
In this way ?data about the data?is created and can be used to judge the data?s ori-gin and authenticity.
In addition an Advisory Boardof senior linguists can be contacted for data review.Also, the list of Advisors can be viewed from thesystem?s wiki.However, the kernel of all efforts is to assure thatthe data quality conforms to established criteria andprocedures in the field.
One way to accomplish this30Language SUBJ OBJ units SBJ % OBJ %German 5 2 1680 0,29 0,12Norwegian 328 144 1787 18,35 8,05Akan 470 393 4700 10 8,36Kistaninya 0 0 737 0 0R.-Rukiga25 5 5073 0,50 0,10Table 1: Relative frequency of core relational tags for 5 languagesis to link annotations to an ontology of grammati-cal concepts that reflects our present knowledge ofgrammatical categories and their relations.
Whilewe can work towards data validity, data complete-ness for a collaborative database will always dependon the linguistic goals pursued by the individual an-notators.It has been suggested by the GOLD communitythat the creation of Language profiles (Farrar andLewis, 2005) could be a way to account for themorpho-syntactic categories of a specific languageby using concepts found in GOLD under annotation.Given our own experience with the present integra-tion of GOLD a mapping from the system?s glosssets to the GOLD ontology could be equally inter-esting.
As an exercise in Ontology Extraction themapping of annotation profiles from the present sys-tem to GOLD could as a first step allow the filling ofcategory gaps.
For the category CASE the equativeis not yet known to GOLD, likewise Deixis and itsforms such as proximate, distal, medial and remoteare not currently represented.10 It would be inter-esting to develop an algorithm which would allowto (a) build a model that can predict the ?class?
ofa certain gloss tag and (b) let ontological categoriesinform data search in the system presented here.4 ConclusionData annotation and real-time data sharing requiresa tool that is suitable for work in the Humanities.The system discussed here represents linguisticallyannotated data in the form of interlinear glosses,a well established format within philology andthe structural and generative fields of linguistics.The present system is novel in that is allows theexchange of research data within linguistics proper.10Gold 2010 Data of search: 03/29/2011The systems?s design has a clear focus on real-timedata sharing combined with simplicity of use andfamiliarity of representation.
It allows its usersto concentrate on the linguistic task at hand.
Thesystem is particularly suitable for the creation ofcorpora of less documented languages.While linguistic software makes use of forums,blogs and other social software, the present systemIS social software.
It is a powerful tool, however, itsreal potential resides in a growing user communityand the effect that the community approach mighthave on data quality and the use of standards.Standards are ignored if not disseminated throughan attractive public site that makes it easy forannotators to use them.With its relative longevity,and its institutional support, the system has two ofthe main characteristics of a digital tool that canserve as part of the cyberinfrastructure which isneeded to support e-Research for the humanities(Nguyen and Shilton, 2008).ReferencesNana Appiah Amfo.
2007.
Akan demonstratives.
InDoris L. Payne and Jaime Pea, editors, Selected Pro-ceedings of the 37th Annual Conference on AfricanLinguistics.Chris Biemann, Uwe Quasthoff, and Christian Wolff.2004.
Linguistic corpus search.
In ProceedingsFourth International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation, Lissabon.Steven Bird.
2009.
Natural language processingand linguistic fieldwork.
Computational Linguistics,35(3):469?474.Lawrence A. Boadi.
2008.
Tense, aspect and mood inAkan.
In Felix K. Ameka and Mary Esther KroppDakubu, editors, Tense and Aspect in Kwa Languages.John Benjamins.31Cathy Bow, Baden Hughes, and Steven Bird.
2003.
To-wards a general model of interlinear text.
In Proceed-ings of EMELD Workshop 2003: Digitizing & An-notating Texts & Field Recordings.
Electronic Metas-tructure for Endangered Language Data.
(EMELD)Project, May.Scott Farrar and Terence Langendoen.
2003.
A linguisticontology for the semantic web.
GLOT International,7(3):97?100.Scott Farrar and William D. Lewis.
2005.
The goldcommunity of practice: An infrastructure for linguisticdata on the web.
In Proceedings of the EMELD 2005Workshop on Digital Language Documentation: Lin-guistic Ontologies and Data Categories for LanguageResources.Nikolaus P. Himmelmann.
1998.
Documentary and de-scriptive linguistics.
Linguistics, 36.Christian Lehmann.
2004.
Data in linguistics.
The Lin-guistic Review, 21(3-4):175?210.Lilly Nguyen and Katie Shilton.
2008.
Tools for Human-ists.
In D. Zorich, editor, A Survey of Digital Human-ities Centres in the United States.
Council on Libraryand Information Resources.Emmanuel Kweku Osam.
2003.
An Introduction to theVerbal and Multi-Verbal System of Akan.
In DorotheeBeermann and Lars Hellan, editors, Proceedings ofthe workshop on Multi-Verb Constructions TrondheimSummer School 2003.Keren.
Rice.
1994.
Language documentation: Whoseethics?
In Lenore A. Grenobel and N. LouannaFurbee-Losee, editors, Language Documentation:Practice and values.
John Benjamins.Chris Rogers.
2010. Review of fieldworks language ex-plorer (flex) 3.0.
Language Documentation & Conser-vation, 04:78?84.Thomas Schmidt.
2010.
Linguistic tool development be-tween community practices and technology standards.In Proceedings of the LREC Workshop Language Re-source and Language Technology Standards state ofthe art, emerging needs, and future developments, Val-letta, Malta, May.
European Language Resources As-sociation (ELRA).Elena Tognini-Bonelli.
2001.
Corpus linguistics at work.Amsterdam: Benjamins.32
