Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies, pages 120?127,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 30, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing lexical and corpus resources for augmenting the AAC lexiconKatarina Heimann M?hlenbockDept of Swedish LanguageUniversity of GothenburgGothenburgkatarina.heimann.muhlenbock@gu.seMats Lund?lvDartQueen Silvia Children?s HospitalGothenburgmats.lundalv@vgregion.seAbstractA corpus of easy-to-read texts in combinationwith a base vocabulary pool for Swedish wasused in order to build a basic vocabulary.
Thecoverage of these entries by symbols in an ex-isting AAC database was then assessed.
Wefinally suggest a method for enriching the ex-pressive power of the AAC language by com-bining existing symbols and in this way illus-trate additional concepts.1 IntroductionA considerable proportion of the population, among1.3 % of all individuals (Beukelman and Mirenda,2005) are affected by severe communication dis-orders, making them more or less unable to usewritten and/or spoken language.
Different languagesupportive aids for these persons have evolved overthe years, mainly as graphical systems contain-ing symbols and pictures, simplified supportivesigning (derived from sign language vocabulary),or a combination of these, possibly comprisingspeech synthesis and speech recognition.
All thesesupportive measures and methods are referred toas Augmentative and Alternative Communication(AAC).A vocabulary comprising 20,878 lemma or baseforms from different sources was analysed in termsof frequency and dispersion.
The primary issuein this study was to analyse to what extent theconcepts in the main AAC symbol databases mirrorthe vocabulary needed to produce and understandeveryday Swedish language.
Another goal was toinvestigate the possibility of extending the AACsymbol databases by combining separate basicwords from the vocabulary into compounds.2 BackgroundA fundamental aspect for participation in the soci-ety is the possibility to acquire information and tocommunicate.
For the majority of citizens, gettinginformation on every-day issues is hardly a task en-tailing any specific problems.
There is, however,a substantial number of persons who have substan-tial difficulties to benefit from ordinary written andspoken sources, being dependent upon other modali-ties, either to express themselves, or as a support forinterpretation, or both.
For this purpose, AAC re-sources in the shape of pictures and symbols havebeen designed for use in low-tech solutions suchas communication books and boards, and high-leveltechnologies such as computer programs and eye-tracking devices.
AAC resources at hand are, how-ever, burdened by two major problems.
First, man-ual production requires much effort and time.
Newconcepts have to be identified and a uniform agree-ment has to be reached among different parties onhow to visually present the concept.
Second, ac-cessibility in the sense of a consumer?s or devel-oper?s possibility and freedom to use available re-sources, is strongly restricted by distribution, copy-right and licensing issues.
Different projects havebeen carried out with the goal to develop and im-plement some suggested open standards for syntac-tic and semantic encoding of AAC material.
TheEuropean IST project WWAAC (World Wide Aug-mentative & Alternative Communication, 2004) was120a pan-european initiative to make the web more ac-cessible for a wide range of persons with languageand/or cognitive impairments.An essential part of language lies within its ambi-guity on the lexical as well as structural level.
Whenit comes to computerized processing, semantic vari-ation between word forms, morphological relation-ships within different word forms, and multiworditems claim specific handling, especially when en-riching an existing vocabulary with new entries.
Infact, comparing wordlists and frequencies from dif-ferent sources is a task affected by a couple of com-plications.
One problem encountered in a compara-tive study of word frequencies is how a word is de-fined, which in fact has been put under debate byfor instance Gardner (2007).
In the present study,we consider the lemma, i.e.
the look up form of aword, to be the key unit.
The idea behind the use oflemma frequencies as units of study is that the hu-man mental or computational processing of lemmasand inflected forms profit from each other, which isin favour of a theory implying that a morphologicaldecomposition takes place for the recognition of in-flected forms.Knowledge of the vocabulary is an essential partof both conveying and understanding messages, ver-bally as well as non-verbally.
Together with the sys-tem of rules generating grammatical combinations,the words in the vocabulary contribute to the infiniteexpressive power of language.
With a narrow vo-cabulary, the possible means to produce and achieveadequate information decreases.
Researchers haveattempted to identify lists of words that could be in-cluded in a core vocabulary (Thorndike and Lorge,1944), (Spache, March 1953) and more specificallyfor people who use AAC (Balandin and Iacono,1998), (Banajee et al, 2003).
There have also beenefforts to investigate how much of the vocabulary aperson needs to know in order to grasp the contentof written texts without having to struggle with iso-lated, unknown words (Hirsch and Nation, 1992).
Inthe latter study, a list of around 2,000 high frequencywords of English, compiled by West (1953), wasused in order to investigate if knowledge of thesewords was actually sufficient for reading unsimpli-fied short novels.
It was found that a person withthis restricted vocabulary was familiar with about90-92% of the total words.
It is worth noting thatthe word frequency counts here reflect the numberof times a word pertaining to a certain word familyoccurs in a text.
The idea behind a word family isthat inflected and regulary derived forms of a knownbase word can also be considered as known words ifthe affixes are known.
This implies that nouns, ad-verbs, verbs and adjectives sharing a common basewill be treated as one word, contrary to the lexico-graphical traditions (for Swedish), where the lemmaor base form is the conventional unit of study.With this in mind, it follows that a database con-taining a core vocabulary of a language has to con-tain enough information for identification of differ-ent lexemes.
For our purposes in this study, it wasalso necessary to add another source of informationin order to retrieve the semantic identifiers for sub-sequent illustration of different concepts into AACsymbols.3 Experimental designA corpus of easy-to-read texts and children?s fictionwas used in order to retrieve candidates for inclusioninto a database of basic Swedish.
The hypothesis isthat by using a corpus of plain texts produced withthe aim of being easy to understand, we can deriveappropriate data for further statistical analysis ofwhich words or word forms are to be consideredas pertaining to a basic vocabulary.
The candidatesretrieved by excerption of high-frequency lemmasfrom the corpus were subsequently compared tothe base-form words in a Swedish base vocabulary,where the lemmas obtaining the highest rank inboth sets were integrated into a database of corevocabulary.
The AAC symbol coverage of thesedatabase entries was then assessed by addressing anexisting AAC symbol database.
Finally, attemptswere made to expand the existing AAC vocabularythrough a semantic analysis of new words, simpleas well as compounds, and in that way make itpossible to illustrate new concepts.4 MaterialThe material used comprise corpora as well as lex-ica.
Some of the resources are freely available fromthe public domain, while other are used under spe-cific permissions.1214.1 AAC materialPictures and symbols aiding language and commu-nication have been developed over decades.
Some ofthe symbol systems have a visual structure that sup-ports different parts of speech.
For this study, theWidgit symbols library (Widgit Software, 2011) andvocabulary in Swedish (preliminary version 11) wasused, covering around 11,000 symbols and 64,000words (including synonyms and inflected forms).Some of the symbols are produced in order to illus-trate different concepts rather than isolated words,which to some extent had a negative impact on thecomparison of different wordlists.
The focus of in-terest has been on content words, i.e.
nouns, verbs,adjectives and adverbs, since the functional wordsnormally don?t appear as independent items.
In to-tal, a wordlist of 20,907 entries was extracted, nor-mally the lemma form.
Proper nouns and numberswere excluded in the study.4.2 Corpora4.2.1 L?SBarTThe primary corpus material for this study is L?S-BarT, an acronym for L?ttl?st Svenska och Barnbok-stext ?Easy-to-read Swedish and Children?s fictionTexts?
(M?hlenbock, 2008).
It is a specialized cor-pus of 1.3 million tokens, compiled with the objec-tive to mirror simple vocabulary and syntax.
Themain text types include works from different do-mains and genres, such as fiction, official documentsfrom the government, parliament, county council,municipality and daily news.
The common denomi-nator for all the texts is that they are all intended tobe read by persons that do not fully master everydaySwedish language.The size of the corpus, 1.3 million tokens, wascompensated for by making text representativenessbe decisive during compilation.
The supply of easy-to-read material is limited and subsequently, thevariation range is quite narrow.
Contrary to manyother writing tasks, the production of easy-to-readtext is elicited by a specific need from the soci-ety and we cannot expect a large variety of genres.Three genres of easy-to-read texts were identifiedfor obtaining a representative sample, namely fic-tion, news and community information, which forthe target group of readers can be regarded as beinga balanced corpus.4.2.2 SUC 2.0SUC 2.0 is a balanced corpus of 1 million wordsin written Swedish, originating from the 1990?s.
Itis designed according to the Brown corpus (Fran-cis and Kucera, 1979) and LOB corpus (Johanssonet al, 1978) principles, which means that it consistsof 500 samples of text with a length of about 2,000words each.
The state-of-the-art markup language atthe time of compilation was SGML, and this anno-tation schema is kept also in the acctual, revised ver-sion.
All entries are annotated with parts-of-speech,morphological analysis and lemma, or rather baseform.
The corpus is also provided with a wide rangeof structural tags and functionally interpreted tags,according to the TEI standards Sperberg, (Consor-tium, TEI, 2007).At the lexeme level, about 23% of the SUC corpusis covered by nouns, while verbs amounts to 17%,adjectives to 9%, proper nouns to 4%, adverbs to9%, prepositions 12%, conjunctions 8%, numbers2%, pronouns 10% and determiners to 6% of thetotal words.
The total vocabulary has 69,371 baseforms.4.3 Lexica4.3.1 L?SBarT wordlistThe wordlist obtained from the L?SBarT cor-pus, L?SBarT-listan (henceforward referred to asLBL) contains 22,041 lemmas in total, covering43,364 lexemes, proper nouns excluded.
It containsinformation about lexical frequency, baseform,part-of-speech tag, and lemma/lexeme form.
Thelemma/lexeme information tells us that a word likesticka has three different lemma/lexeme forms,namely sticka.1 for the noun sticka ?splinter;knitting needle?, and sticka.2 or sticka.3 for the twodifferent verb lexemes with the meanings ?prick,sting; put?
and ?knit?, respectively.
This informationis necessary for further semantic disambiguation ofpolysemous words.The overall part-of-speech distribution is listed inTable 1.
In this study, 2,277 verbs, 14,856 nouns,2,715 adjectives and 1,030 adverbs were extractedfor further analysis.122Part-of-speech % lemmas % lexemesNouns 67.4 20.1Verbs 10.1 25.3Adjectives 12.3 6.2Adverbs 4.7 10.0Prepositions 0.4 17.4Conjunctions 0.1 7.1Pronouns 1.2 12.6Determiners 0.1 4.0Table 1: POS-distribution in LBLIt is interesting to note a large discrepancy in ver-bal representation between SUC (17 %) and L?S-BarT (25 %).
The most probable explanation to thisis the tendency among authors of easy-to-read textsto paraphrase a complicated sentence by two or moresimpler ones, each necessitating a new head verb.4.3.2 The Swedish Base Vocabulary PoolThe Swedish base lemma vocabulary pool (hence-forward referred to as SBV) (Forsbom, 2006) is de-rived from the SUC corpus.
The units of the SBV arethe base forms from SUC annotation disambiguatedfor part-of-speech.
This means for example that apolysemous and homonymous word pertaining todifferent parts-of-speech such as a noun and a verb isrepresented both as its nominal and its verbal form.No information is, however, given at the lexeme orsemantic level.
The version presently used contains8,215 entries, where the lemmas are ranked accord-ing to relative frequency weighted with dispersion,i.e.
how evenly spread-out they are across the sub-corpora.
Instead of using frequency alone, the for-mula for adjusted frequency calculation was used(Rosengren, 1972):AF = (n?i=1?dixi)2whereAF = adjusted frequencydi = relative size of category ixi = frequency in category in = number of categoriesThe SBV was used as reference material for thecomparison of dispersion of word base forms toL?SBarT.4.3.3 SALDOSALDO (Borin and Forsberg, 2009) is a mod-ern Swedish semantic and morphological lexicon.The organization differs in a fundamental way fromthe widely used lexical-semantic database PrincetonWordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), even though both arebased on psycholinguistic principles.
While Prince-ton WordNet and its descendant Swedish Word-Net (Viberg et al, 2002), are organized in en-coded concepts in terms of sets of synonyms, calledsynsets, the associative relations between the entriesin SALDO are based on metaphorical kinships thatare specified as strictly hierarchical structures.
Ev-ery entry in SALDO must have a mother, which inpractice often is either a hyperonym or a synonym.At the top of the hierarchy is an artificial most cen-tral entry, the PRIM, which is used as the motherof 50 semantically unrelated entries.
In this way, allentries become totally integrated into a single rootedtree without cycles.5 Comparative resultsThe lemma forms of 2,277 verbs (Fig.
1), 14,856nouns (Fig.
2), 2,715 adjectives (Fig.
3) and 1,030adverbs (Fig.
4) in LBL were compared against theSBV in order to obtain lemmas occurring in bothlists, i.e.
the intersection of two high-frequency andevenly distributed sets of words in the two corporaL?SBarT and SUC.
This yielded a remaining set of961 verbs, 2,390 nouns, 692 adjectives and 425 ad-verbs, illustrated as the top two rectangles of eachfigure.
In order to analyse to what extent the AACsymbols really supported this basic vocabulary, anadditional comparison was made, focusing on theintersection of words with and without symbol cov-erage in the two sets.
It turned out that as much as95 % (916 out of 961) of the verbs present in bothLBL and SBV also were represented by symbols.For nouns, the corresponding ratio was 76 %, andfor adjectives and adverbs 71 % and 60 %, respec-tively.
Figures 1-4 illustrate the overall ratios.1235.1 VerbsAdjusted frequency of the 44 verbs not representedin the symbol database ranged between 14.97 and1.38, implying a moderate dispersion and frequency.In addition, the majority were compounds with anadverb or preposition as prefix, predominantly com-posite particle verbs.
Authors of easy-to-read textsnormally avoid composite particle verbs and preferto use a paraphrase or synonym, since the formerlexical structure can be perceived as old-fashionedand therefore difficult to understand.
Furthermore,as many as 29 of the verbs lemmas were hapaxwords.Some interesting features must also be mentionedregarding the verbal semantic fields of the words notsupported by symbols.
Many of the verbs seem tofall into a group of socially motivated actions, suchas bestraffa ?punish?, f?ngsla ?imprison?, beordra?command?, and uppfostra ?educate/rear?, all with arather stern tone.Figure 1: Overall ratio of L?SBarT verbs, presencein SBV and symbol coverage5.2 NounsWe found that 24 % of the noun lemmas in LBL andSBV lacked symbol coverage, and that there wasa wide range in adjusted frequency, varying from232.84 down to 1.06.
Without making any formalcategorization, it is clear that the words with highestadjusted frequency are abstract words, such as sam-band ?connection?, brist ?lack?, sammanhang ?con-text?, and allvar ?seriousness?.
Some of the nounsare meaningful only as elements of multiword ex-pressions, such as skull ?sake?
or vis ?manner?, whileothers seem to be ephemeral words from news re-ports.
One third are hapax, and 24 % of all are com-pound nouns.Figure 2: Overall ratio of L?SBarT nouns, presencein SBV and symbol coverage5.3 Adjectives and adverbsFor adjectives, the proportion of lemmas withoutsymbol coverage was as high as 29 %, while 40 %of the adverbs lacked symbol support.
Differencesin part-of-speech tagging for the two corpora, at theprocedural as well as the annotational level, mighthowever have influenced these results.
Verb partici-ples are for instance often subject to inconsistenttagging.6 Augmenting the AAC lexiconThe next step was to investigate to what extentSALDO could be of assistance when augmenting124Figure 3: Overall ratio of L?SBarT adjectives, pres-ence in SBV and symbol coveragethe AAC lexicon with additional concepts.
Anotherinteresting question concerned the feasibility ofdecomposing compounds into simplex words, eachanalysed against SALDO and provided with infor-mation necessary for correct symbol representation.Each entry in the set of lemmas present in bothLBL and SBV, but without representation in thesymbol lexicon, was compared against SALDO.As the concepts in SALDO are related by themother-child relation, we could get the necessarylexical-semantic associations for further analysisof probable candidates for symbol representation.These could be either existing symbols, related ashyperonyms or synonyms, or a combination of twoor more concepts.As was stated earlier, a rather high proportionof noun lemmas missing in the symbol databasewere characterized as abstract nouns.
We havefor instance the noun lemma kapitel ?chapter?,which had an adjusted frequency of 105.71 in SBVand a relative frequency of 1.03 ?
10?4 in LBL.From our core vocabulary database we get that theonly existing entry is identified as kapitel 1/1, i.e.Figure 4: Overall ratio of L?SBarT adverbs, pres-ence in SBV and symbol coveragelemma identifier 1 and lexeme identifier 1.
Thenext step is to consult SALDO, where a look-upof kapitel gives two matches: kapitel..1 with thesemantic descriptors avsnitt + bok ?section + book?,and kapitel..2, with the semantic descriptor kyrka?church?.
Given the fact that in the primary corpusmaterial, the word is unambigous, we allowed toillustrate the concept just by combining the symbolsfor avsnitt ?section?
and bok ?book?, both existing inthe AAC database.Concerning ompound nouns, which made upthe largest portion of lemmas occurring only inLBL and not in SBV, (66 % of the 14,856 nounlemmas), decomposition into simplex words madeit possible to achieve information enough forfurther elaboration into symbol representations.
Anexample, illustrating this procedure, is the wordhuvudkontor ?head office?.
It is not present in thesymbol vocabulary, but we find it directly by alook-up in SALDO with the semantic descriptorskontor ?office?
and fr?mst ?major?, both with symbolcoverage in the database.The last example is another compound noun,aff?rs?gare ?shop owner?, a word that does not existin SALDO.
The compound analysis tells that thisword has two constituents with a linking morpheme,125namely aff?r+s+?gare.
Since we already have thesymbol illustrating the most common concept foraff?r in the primary corpus material, we use that.There is, however, no symbol in the database for?gare.
Turning to SALDO,the word ?gare ?owner?has only one descriptor ?ga ?to own?.
We arenow able to illustrate this concept by two symbolsin combination, namely aff?r and ?ga, which byfurther analysis could possibly be extended toperson ?person?
+ ?ga ?to own?
+ aff?r ?shop?.As mentioned earlier, the few verbs not existingin the symbol database were generally either hapax,or particle verbs.
Even if we regard the hapaxwords in LBL as peripheral in the easy-to-readgenre, the fact that they exist in the SBV make themcandidates for further analysis and inclusion into anaugmented symbol lexicon.
For nouns, the situationis largely the same.
In general, they have a higherrelative frequency, in average 8.0 ?
10?6, and onlyone third of the total are hapax words.
Adjectivesand adverbs in this set of words have a mean relativefrequency in L?SBarT of 1.0 ?
10?5 and 4.4 ?
10?5,respectively.
For adjectives, the hapax ratio was 30% and for adverbs 20 %.7 ConclusionsWe found this to be a good way to produce a core vo-cabulary for Swedish.
The suitability of this methodwas ensured not only by the fact that the ingoing en-tries were to be found in a corpus of simple texts,but also that they had a high degree of frequencyand dispersion in a corpus balanced for genre anddomain.
It also turned out the the symbol cover-age of these entries in the AAC language studiedwas impressively high for verbs (95 %), lower fornouns (76 %) and adjectives (71 %), and consider-ably lower for adverbs (60 %).
This is completely inaccordance with what we expected, since the basicverbs play a major role in communication.
The factthat the nouns to a higher degree lack symbol sup-port, was compensated for by the circumstance thata relatively high amount of entries could be found inor derived by information in a semantic lexicon.Given that the results in this study are based on onlyone of several symbol languages, we would like toextend the research also to these, at first hand Blissand more of the pictorial systems, such as PCS.ReferencesSusan Balandin and T. Iacono.
1998.
A few well-chosenwords.
Augmentative and Alternative Communica-tion, 14:147?161.Meher Banajee, Cynthia Dicarlo, and Sarintha BurasStricklin.
2003.
Core vocabulary determination fortoddlers.
Augmentative and Alternative Communica-tion, 19(2):67?73.D Beukelman and P Mirenda.
2005.
Augmentative andalternative communication: Supporting children andadults with complex communication needs.
Paul H.Brookes, Baltimore, 3rd edition.Lars Borin and Markus Forsberg.
2009.
All in the fam-ily: A comparison of saldo and wordnet.
In Pro-ceedings of the Nodalida 2009 Workshop on WordNetsand other Lexical Semantic Resources - between Lexi-cal Semantics, Lexicography, Terminology and FormalOntologies, Odense.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
A semantic network of en-glish - the mother of all wordnets.
Computers and theHumanities, 32:209?220.Eva Forsbom.
2006.
A swedish base vocabulary pool.In Swedish Language Technology conference, Gothen-burg.W.
Nelson Francis and Henry Kucera.
1979.
Man-ual of information to accompany a standard corpus ofpresent-day edited american english for use with dig-ital computers.
Technical report, Department of Lin-guistics, Brown University.Dee Gardner.
2007.
Validating the construct of word inapplied corpus-based vocabulary research: A criticalsurvey.
Applied Linguistics, 28(2):241?265.David Hirsch and Paul Nation.
1992.
What vocabularysize is needed to read unsimplified texts for pleasure?Reading in a Foreign Language, 8(2):689?696.Stig Johansson, G. Leech, and H. Goodluck.
1978.Manual of information to accompany the lancaster-oslo/bergen corpus of british english, for use with dig-ital computers.
Technical report, Unversity of Oslo.Katarina M?hlenbock.
2008.
Readable, legible or plainwords - presentation of an easy-to-read swedish cor-pus.
In Anju Saxena and ?ke Viberg, editors, Multilin-gualism, Proceedings of the 23rd Scandinavian Con-ference of Linguistics, Studia Linguistica Upsaliensia,ISSN 1652-1336; 8, pages 325?327, Uppsala, Swe-den.
Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis.Inger Rosengren.
1972.
Ein Frekvenzw?rterbuch derdeutschen Zeitungssprache.
GWK Gleerup, Lund.George Spache.
March, 1953.
A new readability for-mula for primary-grade reading materials.
ElementarySchool Journal, LIII:410?413.126TEI Consortium.
2007.
TEI P5: Guidelines for Elec-tronic Text Encoding and Interchange.
TEI Consor-tium, p5 edition.Edward L. Thorndike and I. Lorge.
1944.
The teacher?sword book of 30,000 words.
Columbia UniversityPress, New York.
?ke Viberg, K Lindmark, A Lindvall, and I Mellenius.2002.
The swedish wordnet project.
In Proceedingsof Euralex 2002, pages 407?412, Copenhagen Univer-sity.M.
West.
1953.
A General Service List of English Words.Longman, London.Widgit Software.
2011.
Widgit homepage.http://www.widgit.com.World Wide Augmentative & Alternative Communica-tion.
2004.
Communication is not a privilege.
Tech-nical report.127
