Proceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Expressions: from Parsing and Generation to the Real World (MWE 2011), pages 8?13,Portland, Oregon, USA, 23 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic Clustering: an Attempt to Identify Multiword Expressions inBengaliTanmoy Chakraborty        Dipankar Das        Sivaji BandyopadhyayDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringJadavpur University, Kolkata 700 032, Indiaits_tanmoy@yahoo.co.in, dipankar.dipnil2005@gmail.comsivaji_cse_ju@yahoo.comAbstractOne of the key issues in both natural lan-guage understanding and generation is theappropriate processing of Multiword Ex-pressions (MWEs).
MWE can be definedas a semantic issue of a phrase where themeaning of the phrase may not be obtainedfrom its constituents in a straightforwardmanner.
This paper presents an approach ofidentifying bigram noun-noun MWEs froma medium-size Bengali corpus by cluster-ing the semantically related nouns and in-corporating a vector space model forsimilarity measurement.
Additional inclu-sion of the English WordNet::Similaritymodule also improves the results consider-ably.
The present approach also contributesto locate clusters of the synonymous nounwords present in a document.
Experimentalresults draw a satisfactory conclusion afteranalyzing the Precision, Recall and F-scorevalues.1 IntroductionOver the past two decades or so, Multi-Word Ex-pressions (MWEs) have been identified with anincreasing amount of interest in the field of Com-putational linguistics and Natural LanguageProcessing (NLP).
The term MWE is used to referthe various types of linguistic units and expres-sions including idioms (kick the bucket, ?to die?
),noun compounds (village community), phrasalverbs (find out, ?search?)
and other habitual collo-cations like conjunction (as well as), institutiona-lized phrases (many thanks) etc.
They can also begrossly defined as ?idiosyncratic interpretationsthat cross the word boundaries?
(Sag et al, 2002).MWE is considered as a special issue of seman-tics where the individual components of an expres-sion often fail to keep their meanings intact withinthe actual meaning of the expression.
This opaque-ness in meaning may be partial or total dependingon the degree of compositionality of the whole ex-pression.
In Bengali, an analogous scenario can beobserved when dealing with the expressions likecompound nouns (taser ghar, ?house of cards?,?fragile?
), complex predicates such as conjunctverbs (anuvab kara, ?to feel?)
and compound verbs(uthe para, ?to arise?
), idioms (matir manus, ?downto the earth?
), Named Entities (NEs) (Rabindra-nath Thakur, ?Rabindranath Tagore?)
etc.In this paper, we analyze MWEs from the pers-pective of semantic interpretation.
We have fo-cused mainly on the fact that the individualmeanings of the components are totally or partiallydiminished in order to form the actual semantics ofthe expression.
A constellation technique has beenemployed to group all nouns that are somehowrelated to the meaning of the component of anyexpression in the corpus and hence to build clusterfor that component.
Two types of vector spacebased similarity techniques are applied to make abinary classification of the candidate nouns.
Theintuition was that more the similarity of the com-ponents of an expression, less the probability of thecandidate to become a MWE.
We have also shownthe results using WordNet::Similarity module.The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-lows.
In the next section, we review the relatedwork on MWE and graph-clustering approach fordetecting compositionality.
Section 3 proposes abrief description of the semantic clustering ap-proach.
The system framework is elaborated inSection 4.
Experimental results and the variousobservations derived from our research are dis-cussed in Section 5.
Finally, Section 6 concludesthe paper.82 Related WorkA number of research activities regarding MWEidentification have been carried out in various lan-guages like English, German and many other Eu-ropean languages.
The statistical co-occurrencemeasurements such as Mutual Information (MI)(Church and Hans, 1990), Log-Likelihood (Dun-ning, 1993) and Salience (Kilgarriff and Rosenz-weig, 2000) have been suggested for identificationof MWEs.
An unsupervised graph-based algorithmto detect the compositionality of MWEs has beenproposed in (Korkontzelos and Manandhar 2009).In case of Indian languages, an approach incompound noun MWE extraction (Kunchukuttanand Damani, 2008) and a classification based ap-proach for Noun-Verb collocations (Venkatapathyand Joshi, 2009) have been reported.
In Bengali,the works on automated extraction of MWEs arelimited in number.
One method of automatic ex-traction of Noun-Verb MWE in Bengali (Agarwalet al, 2004) has been carried out using significancefunction.
In contrast, we have proposed a cluster-ing technique to identify Bengali MWEs using se-mantic similarity measurement.
It is worth notingthat the conducted experiments are useful for iden-tifying MWEs for the electronically resource con-strained languages.3 Semantic Clustering ApproachSemantic clustering aims to cluster semanticallyrelated tokens present in a document.
Identifyingsemantically related words for a particular token iscarried out by looking the surrounding tokens andfinding the synonymous words within a fixed con-text window.
Statistical idiomaticity demands fre-quent occurrence of a particular expression as oneor few occurrences of a particular word cannot in-fer all its meaning.
However, the semantics of aword may be obtained by analyzing its similaritysets called synset.
Higher value of the similaritycoefficient between two synonymous sets of themulti-word components indicates more affinity ofthe components to each other.For individual component of a bigram expres-sion, semantically related words of the documentsare extracted by using a monolingual dictionary (asdiscussed in Section 4.4).
Count of elements in anintersection of two synsets indicates the commo-nality of the two sets and its absolute value standsfor their commonality measure.
Considering thecommon elements as the dimensions of the vectorspace, similarity based techniques are applied tomeasure the semantic affection of the two compo-nents present in a bigram.4 System Framework4.1 Corpus Preparation and Candidate Selec-tionThe system uses a large number of Bengali articleswritten by the noted Indian Nobel laureate Rabin-dranath Tagore 1 .
We are primarily interested insingle document term affinity rather than documentinformation and document length normalization.Merging all of the articles, a medium size raw cor-pus consisting of 393,985 tokens and 283,533types has been prepared.
Basic pre-processing ofthe crawled corpus is followed by parsing with thehelp of an open source shallow parser2 developedfor Bengali.
Parts-of-Speech (POS), chunk, root,inflection and other morphological information foreach token have been retrieved.
Bigram noun se-quence within a noun chunk is extracted andtreated as candidates based on their POS, chunkcategories and the heuristics described as follows.1.
POS:   POS of each token is either ?NN?
or?NNP?2.
Chunk: w1 and w2 must be in the same ?NP?chunk3.
Inflection: Inflection 3  of w1 must be?-    ????
(null), ?-??
(-r), ?-???
(-er), ?-??
(-e), ?-??
(-y) or ?-????
(-yr) and forw2, any inflection is considered.4.2 Dictionary RestructuringTo the best of our knowledge, no full-fledgedWordNet resource is available for Bengali.
Hence,the building of Bengali synsets from a monolingualBengali dictionary not only aims to identify themeaning of a token, but also sets up the frameworktowards the development of Bengali WordNet.Each word present in the monolingual dictionary(Samsada Bengali Abhidhana)4 contains its POS,1 http://www.rabindra-rachanabali.nltr.org2  http://ltrc.iiit.ac.in/analyzer/bengali3  Linguistic study (Chattopadhyay, 1992) reveals that forcompound noun MWE, considerable inflections of first nounare only those which are mentioned above.4  http://dsal.uchicago.edu/dictionaries/biswas-bangala/9phonetics and synonymous sets.
An automatictechnique has been devised to identify the synsetsof a particular word based on the clues (?,?
commaand ?;?
semi-colon) provided in the dictionary todistinguish words of similar and different sensefrom the synonymous sets.
The symbol tilde (~)indicates that the suffix string followed by the tilde(~) notation makes another new word concatenat-ing with the original entry word.
A partial snapshotof the synsets for the Bengali word ?????
(Ang-shu) is shown in Figure 1.
In Table 1, the frequen-cies of different synsets according to their POS areshown.Dictionary Entry:???
[a?
?u] ??.
1 ???
?, ??
?, ???
; ~ ???.
??
, ???
??
; ????
???
????????
??????
~ ???
??.
???????
?, ?????????Synsets:???
????/???/???_??.#25_1_1????
??/???_??_??.#26_1_1????
????_???_????????_???_??_??.#26_2_2??????
????????/????????_?
?.#27_1_1Figure 1: A partial snapshot of the Bengali mono-lingual dictionary entry (word and synsets)Total#WordTotal#SynsetNoun Adj-ectivePro-nounVerb33619 63403 28485 11023 235 1709Table 1: Total number of words, synsets and Fre-quencies of different POS based synsets4.3 Generating Semantic Clusters of NounsIn the first phase, we have generated the synonym-ous sets for all nouns present in the corpus usingthe synset based dictionary whereas in the secondphase, the task is to identify the semantic distancebetween two nouns.
The format of the dictionarycan be thought of as follows:W1=n11, n21, n31,  ??????
= {ni1}..Wm=n1m, n2m, n3m,  ?????.
= {npm}where, W1, W2, ?.,Wm are the dictionary word en-tries and njm (for all j) are the elements of the syn-sets of Wm.
Now, each noun entry identified by theshallow parser in the document is searched in thedictionary.
For example, if a noun N present thecorpus becomes an entry of the synsets, W1, W3andW5, the synset of N is as follows,SynSet (N) = {Wl, W3, W5}???
(1)To identify the semantic similarity between twonouns, we have applied simple intersection rule.The number of common elements between the syn-sets of the two noun words denotes the similaritybetween them.
If Ni and Nj are the two noun wordsin the document and Wi and Wj are their corres-ponding synsets, the similarity of the two wordscan be defined as,Similarity (Ni,Nj) = |Wi ?
Wj|???.
(2)We have clustered all the nouns present in thedocument for a particular noun and have identifiedthe similarity score for every pair of nouns ob-tained using equation 2.4.4 Checking of Candidate Bigram as MWEThe identification of candidates as MWE is doneusing the results obtained from the previous phase.The algorithm to identify the noun-noun bigram<M1 M2> as MWE is discussed below with anexample shown in Figure 2.ALOGRITHM:  MWE-CHECKINGINPUT: Noun-noun bigram <M1 M2>OUTPUT: Return true if MWE, or return false.1.
Extract semantic clusters of M1 and M22.
Intersection of the clusters of both M1 and M2(Figure 2.1 shows the common synset entries ofM1 and M2 using rectangle).3.
For measuring the semantic similarity betweenM1 and M2:3.1.
In an n-dimensional vector space (heren=2), the common entries act as the axes.
PutM1 and M2 as two vectors and associatedweights as their co-ordinates.3.2.
Calculate cosine-similarity measurementand Euclidean distance (Figure 2.2).4.
Final decision taken individually for two differ-ent measurements-4.1 If cosine-similarity > m, return false;Else return true;4.2 If Euclidean-distance >  p, return false;Else return true;(Where m and p are the pre-defined cut-off values)We have also employed English WordNet 5  tomeasure   the   semantic   similarity   between   two5 http://www.d.umn.edu/tpederse/similarity.html10Figure 2.1: Intersection of the clusters of the con-stituents (left side); Figure 2.2: Similarity betweentwo constituents Evaluation (right side)Bengali words translated into English.
Word-Net::Similarity is an open-source package for cal-culating the lexical similarity between word (orsense) pairs based on various similarity measures.Basically, WordNet measures the relative distancebetween two nodes denoted by two words in theWordNet tree which can vary from -1 to 1 where-1 indicates total dissimilarity between two nodes.The equation used to calculate this distance is men-tioned below-Normalized_Distance= minDistToCommonPa-rent / (DistFromCommonParentToRoot + min-DistToCommonParent)                    ????..
(3)We have translated the root of the two compo-nents of a Bengali candidate into their Englishequivalents using a Bengali to English bilingualdictionary.
They are passed into the WordNetbased similarity module for measuring similaritybetween the components.If we take an example of a Bengali idiom haterpanch (remaining resource) to describe our intui-tion, we have seen that the WordNet defines twocomponents of the idiom hat (hand) as ?a part of alimb that is farthest from the torso?
and panch(five) as ?a number which is one more than four?.So from these two glosses it is quite clear that theyare not at all semantically related in any sense.The synonymous sets for these two componentsextracted from the formatted dictionary are shownbelow ?Synset (???
?hat?)
= { ?
?, ?
?, ???
?, ??
?, ???,????
?, ????
?, ???
?, ???
?, ????
?, ?????,????
?, ????
}Synset (????
?panch?)
= {?
?, ????
?, ??
?, ???,??
?, ???
?, ?
?, ???
?, ?
?, ???
?, ??
?, ??????,??????
?, ????
}It is clearly seen from the above synonymoussets that there is no common element and hence itssimilarity score is obviously zero.
In this case, thevector space model cannot be drawn using zerodimensions.
For them, a marginal weight is as-signed to show them as completely non-compositional phrase.
To identify their non-compositionality, we have to show that their occur-rence is not certain only in one case; rather theycan occur side by side in several occasions.
Butthis statistical proof can be determined better usinga large corpus.
Here, for those candidate phrases,which show zero similarity, we have seen theirexistence more than one time in the corpus.
Takingany decision using single occurrence may give in-correct result because they can be unconsciouslyused by the authors in their writings.
That is why,the more the similarity between two components ina bigram, the less the probability to be a MWE.4.5 Annotation AgreementThree annotators identified as A1, A2 and A3 wereengaged to carry out the annotation.
The annota-tion agreement of 628 candidate phrases is meas-ured using standard Cohen's kappa coefficient (?
)(Cohen, 1960).
It is a statistical measure of inter-rater agreement for qualitative (categorical) items.In addition to this, we also choose the measure ofagreements on set-valued items (MASI) (Passon-neau, 2006) that was used for measuring agreementin the semantic and pragmatic annotation.
Annota-tion results as shown in Table 2 are satisfactory.Cut-offCosine-Similarity Euclidean Distance WordNet SimilarityP R FS P R FS P R FS0.6 70.75 64.87 67.68 70.57 62.23 66.14 74.60 61.78 67.580.5 78.56 59.45 67.74 72.97 58.79 65.12 80.90 58.75 68.060.4 73.23 56.97 64.08 79.78 53.03 63.71 75.09 52.27 61.63Table 3: Precision (P), Recall (R) and F-score (FS) (in %) for various measurements11The list of noun-noun collocations are extractedfrom the output of the parser for manual checking.It is observed that 39.39% error occurs due towrong POS tagging or extracting invalid colloca-tions by considering the bigrams in a n-gram chunkwhere n > 2.
We have separated these phrases fromthe final list.Table 2: Inter-Annotator Agreement (in %)4.6 Experimental  ResultsWe have used the standard IR matrices like Preci-sion (P), Recall (R) and F-score (F) for evaluatingthe final results obtained from three modules.
Hu-man annotated list is used as the gold standard forthe evaluation.
The present system results areshown in Table 3.
These results are compared withthe statistical baseline system described in (Cha-kraborty, 2010).
Our baseline system is reportedwith the precision of 39.64%.
The predefined thre-shold has been varied to catch individual results ineach case.
Increasing Recall in accordance with theincrement of cut-off infers that the maximumnumbers of MWEs are identified in a wide rangeof threshold.
But the Precision does not increaseconsiderably.
It shows that the higher cut-off de-grades the performance.
The reasonable results forPrecision and Recall have been achieved in case ofcosine-similarity at the cut-off value of 0.5 whereEuclidean distance and WordNet Similarity givemaximum precision at cut-off values of 0.4 and 0.5respectively.
In all cases, our system outperformsthe baseline system.It is interesting to observe that English WordNetbecomes a very helpful tool to identify BengaliMWEs.
WordNet detects maximum MWEs cor-rectly at the cut-off of 0.5.
Baldwin et al, (2003)suggested that WordNet::Similarity measure is ef-fective to identify empirical model of MultiwordExpression Decomposability.
This is also provedin this experiment as well and even for Bengalilanguage.
There are also candidates with very lowvalue of similarity between their constituents (forexample, ganer gajat (earth of song, affectionateof song), yet they are discarded from this experi-ment because of their low frequency of occurrencein the corpus which could not give any judgmentregarding collocation.
Whether such an unexpec-tedly low frequent high decomposable elementswarrant an entry in the lexicon depends on the typeof the lexicon being built.5 ConclusionsWe hypothesized that sense induction by analyzingsynonymous sets can assist the identification ofMultiword Expression.
We have introduced anunsupervised approach to explore the hypothesisand have shown that clustering technique alongwith similarity measures can be successfully em-ployed to perform the task.
This experiment addi-tionally contributes to the following scenarios - (i)Clustering of words having similar sense, (ii) Iden-tification of MWEs for resource constraint lan-guages and (iii) Reconstruction of Bengalimonolingual dictionary towards the developmentof Bengali WordNet.
However, in our future work,we will apply the present techniques for other typeof MWEs (e.g., adjective-noun collocation, verbalMWEs) as well as for other languages.AcknowledgementThe work reported in this paper is supported by agrant from the ?Indian Language to Indian Lan-guage Machine Translation (IL-ILMT) SystemPhrase II?, funded by Department of Informationand Technology (DIT), Govt.
of India.ReferencesAgarwal, Aswini, Biswajit Ray, Monojit Choudhury,Sudeshna Sarkar and Anupam Basu.
2004.
Automat-ic Extraction of Multiword Expressions in Bengali:An Approach for Miserly Resource Scenario.
In Pro-ceedings of International Conference on NaturalLanguage Processing (ICON), pp.
165-174.Baldwin, Timothy, Colin Bannard, Takaaki Tanaka andDominic Widdows.
2003.
An Empirical Model ofMultiword Expression Decomposability.
Proceed-ings of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics-2003, Workshop on Multiword Expressions:Analysis, Acquisition and Treatment, Sapporo, Japan,pp.
89?96.Ckakraborty, Tanmoy, 2010, Identification of Noun-Noun (N-N) Collocations as Multi-Word Expressionsin Bengali Corpus.
Student Session, InternationalConference of Natural Language Processing (ICON),IIT Kharagpur, IndiaMWEs[# 628]Agreement  between pair of annotatorsA1-A2      A2-A3    A1-A3        AvgKAPPA 87.23 86.14 88.78 87.38MASI 87.17 87.02 89.02 87.7312Chakraborty, Tanmoy and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.
2010.Identification of Reduplication in Bengali Corpusand their Semantic Analysis: A Rule Based Ap-proach.
In proceedings of the Workshop on Multi-word Expressions: from Theory to Applications(MWE 2010), 23rd International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2010), pp.73-76, Beijing, China.Chattopadhyay Suniti K. 1992.
Bhasa-Prakash BangalaVyakaran, Third Edition.Church, Kenneth Wrad and Patrick Hans.
1990.
WordAssociation Norms, Mutual Information and Lexico-graphy.
Proceedings of 27th Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (ACL), 16(1).
pp.
22-29.Cohen, J.
1960.
A coefficient of agreement for nominalscales.
Educational and Psychological Measurement,vol.
20, pp.
37?46.Dunning, T. 1993.
Accurate Method for the Statistic ofSurprise and Coincidence.
In Computational Linguis-tics, pp.
61-74.Kilgarriff, Adam and Joseph Rosenzweig.
2000.Framework and results for English SENSEVAL.Computers and the Humanities.
Senseval Special Is-sue, 34(1-2).
pp.
15-48.Korkontzelos,Ioannis and Suresh Manandhar.
2009.Detecting Compositionality in Multi-Word Expres-sions.
Proceedings of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics-IJCNLP, Singapore, pp.
65-68.Kunchukuttan F. A. and Om P. Damani.
2008.
A Sys-tem for Compound Noun Multiword Expression Ex-traction for Hindi.
Proceeding of 6th InternationalConference on Natural Language Processing(ICON).
pp.
20-29.Passonneau, R.J. 2006.
Measuring agreement on set-valued items (MASI) for semantic and pragmatic an-notation.
Language Resources and Evaluation.Sag, Ivan A., Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword Ex-pressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
In Proceed-ings of Conference on Intelligent Text Processingand Computational Linguistics (CICLING), pp.
1-15.Venkatapathy, Sriram and Aravind Joshi.
2005.
Measur-ing the relative compositionality of verb-noun (V-N)collocations by integrating features.
Proceedings ofHuman Language Technology Conference and Con-ference on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (HLT/EMNLP), Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.
pp.
899 - 906.13
