Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages 501?511,Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, July 30?31, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsCrisis MT: Developing A Cookbook for MT in Crisis SituationsWilliam D. LewisMicrosoft ResearchRedmond, WA 98052wilewis@microsoft.comRobert MunroStanford UniversityStanford, CA 94305rmunro@stanford.eduStephan VogelCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213stephan.vogel@cmu.eduAbstractIn this paper, we propose that MT is an im-portant technology in crisis events, somethingthat can and should be an integral part of arapid-response infrastructure.
By integratingMT services directly into a messaging infras-tructure (whatever the type of messages beingserviced, e.g., text messages, Twitter feeds,blog postings, etc.
), MT can be used to pro-vide first pass translations into a majority lan-guage, which can be more effectively triagedand then routed to the appropriate aid agen-cies.
If done right, MT can dramatically in-crease the speed by which relief can be pro-vided.
To ensure that MT is a standard toolin the arsenal of tools needed in crisis events,we propose a preliminary Crisis Cookbook,the contents of which could be translated intothe relevant language(s) by volunteers imme-diately after a crisis event occurs.
The result-ing data could then be made available to reliefgroups on the ground, as well as to providersof MT services.
We also note that thereare significant contributions that our commu-nity can make to relief efforts through con-tinued work on our research, especially thatresearch which makes MT more viable forunder-resourced languages.1 IntroductionThe connected world contains approximately 5000languages ?
at least that is how many languages youcould find at the other end of your phone right now.However, the majority of these languages are under-resourced, and they have few or no digital resources.In the event of a sudden onset crisis, people willimmediately begin using their communication tech-nologies ?
and their languages ?
to report their situ-ations, request help, and seek out loved ones.
Yet,in the event that such a crisis occurs in a regionof the world where an under-resourced language isspoken, delivery of support or aid could be affecteddue to the inability to communicate.
This was feltmost strongly in the wake of the January 12, 2010earthquake in Haiti.
Local emergency response ser-vices were inoperable, but 70-80% of cell-towerswere quickly restored.
With 83% of men and 67% ofwomen possessing cellphones, the nation remainedlargely connected.
People within Haiti were texting,calling, and interacting with social media, primarilyin Haitian Kreyo`l (Munro, 2011).
Yet, most of theaid that was being delivered to the country ?
initially,soley by the American Military ?
was being deliv-ered by groups that did not communicate in Kreyo`l.It was the first time that the world has seen a large-scale sudden onset crisis in a region with productivedigital communications in an under-resourced lan-guage, but it certainly will not be the last.We strongly believe that MT is an important tech-nology to facilitate communication in crisis situa-tions, crucially since it can make content in a lan-guage spoken or written by a local population ac-cessible to those that do not know the language, inparticular aid agencies.
Multiple groups saw MTas a grand challenge in the Haitian crisis, and theyset to work to make MT available as soon as pos-sible after the crisis.
Within two weeks of the cri-sis, the first two MT engines were built and wereavailable to those who needed them.
We believe thatwe can make MT available just as quickly in futurecrises, and, with the right preparation, tightly inte-grate MT into the communication infrastructure thatis deployed (e.g., the text messaging infrastructure).The challenge is doing the work now to make thisvision possible.In this paper, we describe the technologies thatcame to play in the Haitian crisis, how HaitianKreyo`l MT was developed, the problems of surpriselanguages and low resource MT, and detail the re-search and technologies, cast as a ?Crisis MT Cook-book?, that will be essential for MT to form a corerole in future crises.
In Sections 2, 3, and 4 we dis-cuss Mission 4636 and the technologies that came501into play in Haiti and other recent crises, and therole that technologies can and should play in futurecrises.
In Section 5, we discuss what made HaitianKreyo`l a special case of a ?surprise language?, andhow MT was developed for the language.
In Sec-tion 6, we review the NLP and MT research areasthat will likely net big returns for under-resourcedlanguages.
In Section 7, we review the need for anMT Crisis Cookbook, and what the data and infras-tructural components of the Cookbook should be.Finally, in Section 8 we review a sample crisis time-line, and how a crisis might play out with all thecomponents of the Cookbook available.
Section 9wraps up the paper.2 Mission 4636In Haiti, crowdsourced translation enabled com-munications between the Kreyo`l-speaking Haitianpopulation and English-speaking emergency respon-ders.
A small group of international aid workersestablished a phone-number,?4636?1 , that peoplewere able to send text messages to for free withinHaiti.
The actual translations were made by about2000 Kreyo`l2 and French speaking volunteers col-laborating on an online microtasking platform thatthey used to translate, categorize, identify missingpeople and geolocate information on a map (Munro,2010).3 After a month, this work was graduallytransferred to paid workers in Mirebalais, Haiti.These messages, about 80,000 in total, were usedas part of the shared task for the 2011 Workshopon Machine Translation.
About 3,000 of the mes-sages had the categories and coordinates refined by athird workforce working with the Ushahidi platformout of Boston.4 They published this information onan online crisis map and worked directly with themain emergency responder, the American Military,to identify actionable information.1See the ?Mission 4636?
website athttp://www.mission4636.org for more information aboutthe organization and its efforts in Haiti.2We use the term Kreyo`l for the Creole spoken in Haiti todifferentiate it from other Creoles.
This is also in concord withcustomary usage in Haiti.3An author of this paper, Robert Munro, coordinated thisprocess and is a founding member and translation coordinatorfor the Standby Task Force, which is discussed later in the paper.4For more information on Ushahidi, seehttp://www.ushahidi.org.The strategy for translation was extremely effec-tive - 80,000 messages equates to about 10 novels ofinformation, translated in real-time, lifting a burdenoff people in Haiti.
One high-ranking official de-scribed the translation process as a ?perfect match?of social media and traditional emergency response(Anderson, 2010).To meet the scale of translation needs, machinetranslation services were quickly shipped.
A mem-ber of Mission 4636 built a high-precision, low-coverage dictionary-based system that was used bya number of translators.
A couple of days later,the world?s first publically accessible Stastical Ma-chine Translation (SMT) engine for Kreyo`l was de-veloped by Microsoft Research, with Google Re-search following several days later with their ownengine.5 Although the statistical translation engineswere not used directly in the SMS translation ef-fort, there is evidence they were used by those whowere involved in the relief effort, as determined byblog postings and a review of translation logs show-ing relief-centric translations.
Although Kreyo`l isnot a high traffic language?it was not expected thatit would be?about 5% of the traffic in the weeksand the months following the earthquake appearedto be relief-related, suggesting that machine transla-tion was being used those who needed it most.6 HadMT been integrated directly into the text messaginginfrastructure used in Haiti, this percentage wouldhave been significantly larger.3 Translation and crisis response - aquickly changing fieldTo establish a ready-workforce to aid informationprocessing in relief efforts an organization called the5A rough timeline of these developments canbe seen in the commentary posted to the Lan-guage Log website (see specifically the archive at:http://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=2068).6The logs output by Microsoft Translator?s engine were ex-amined, and categorized roughly into broad categories describ-ing the type of content.
These categories were: Relief Related(suspected), Colloquial or Common Expressions (which could,in fact, have been relief related), Chat, and Unknown.
The anal-ysis was done by hand on a random sample of 200 messagesfrom the many thousands of messages received within a coupleof months of the quake.
There were a large number of stringsthat were difficult to categorize, including many partial strings,and a bias against Relief Related when it was not clear.
Thus,the 5% estimate is likely a conservative one.502Standby Task Force was established in late 2010.
Itsfounding members had worked together in the Haitiand/or subsequent Pakistan response efforts.
It cur-rently has several hundred members who special-ize in tasks like report mapping, verification, mediamonitoring and translation.
Of all the different tasksthat volunteers can perform, translation is the leasttransferable from one crisis to the next.Following from the lessons learned in Haiti,crowdsourced and machine translation have beencombined for a number of aid efforts: vote monitor-ing for the referendem in Southern Sudan (Arabic);a UN-led earthquake simulation in Colombia (Span-ish); and for crisis mapping following the tsunami inJapan (Japanese).When information is immediately translated intoa high resource language it can be quickly triaged bya greater number of people.
The more time-intensivetask of manually correcting any mistranslations canbe performed in parallel.
This workflow of combin-ing machine and crowdsourced translation is largelya succesful one and is likely to become commonpractice in humanitarian information processing.The combination of manual and machine-translation was found to be effective across unpre-dictable input:?An email came into the Sudan Vote Mon-itor platform in Indonesian - your plugindid a good job of translating it into Englishand Arabic?Helena Puig Larrauri, volunteer for SudanVote Monitor (P.C.
)But not without errors, especially across vitalphrases like location names:?Names of neighborhoods such as Salitreor Puerta al Llano were not recognized assuch and unnecessarily being translated.
?Marta Poblet, volunteer for Colombiaearthquake simulation (P.C.
)When the uprisings hit Libya in early 2011 theUnited Nations did not have the capacity to col-lect vital ground-truth data in the lead up to theirinvolvement.
Information about refugee numbersand needs were on web-accessible articles and so-cial media, as were reports about the movements ofgovernment and rebel troops and vunerable popula-tions within the country.
But there simply wasn?t theworkforce within the UN to aggregate and verify somuch information.
This was the first time the UnitedNations directly engaged a volunteer workforce forlarge-scale information processing, requesting theStandby Tasks Force?s deployment.
It was alsothe first time that so much information had comefrom social media, a potentially large but unstruc-tured data source, but it gave the UN a huge head-start in their efforts (Verity, 2011).
Crowdsourcedand machine translation were also combined here,but in this case by directly engaging Arabic speak-ers in media monitoring and by using reports fromMeedan.7In a crisis, it will now be more common than notthat the volume of available digital information willsurpass the volume of information that aid-workerscan collect directly from the ground.
This rapidchange is being quickly met by a rapid change incloud-based and automated solutions to languageprocessing, especially machine translation.4 Translation and low-resource languagesWe were fortunate that Arabic, Spanish andJapanese are high resource languages for whichonline machine translation services already exist.Speakers of low resource languages cannot currentlybenefit from this kind of translation service and yetlow resource languages are disproportionally spokenby the world?s most vunerable populations.
Over thelast 12 months many problems have been solved re-garding the workflow of managing crisis data, butone of the biggest remaining problems is the abil-ity to quickly deploy machine-translation systems toaugment relief efforts.While translation is not widely discussed aspectof crisis response, it is ?a perennial hidden issue?
(Disaster 2.0, 2011):?Go and look at any evaluation from thelast ten or fifteen years.
?Recommenda-tion: make effective information available7Meedan is an NGO that seeks to create greater understand-ing between the Arabic and English speaking world by translat-ing media reports and blogs between the languages, combiningquick machine-translation with corrections by a volunteer com-munity.503to the government and the population intheir own language.?
We didn?t do it .
.
.
Itis a consistent thing across emergencies.
?Brendan McDonald, UN OCHA in (Dis-aster 2.0, 2011)Beyond the particular use case of small-to-medium scale emergency information processing,machine translation can also contribute to aid ef-forts when the scale of information is beyond anymanual processing.
In addition to the Libya deploy-ment, a recent Red Cross survey (2010) found thatnearly half the respondents would use social mediato report emergencies.
It simply would not be possi-ble to translate all real-time reports when expressedthrough social media, but translation into a high re-source language could aid semi-automated methodsfor discovering and prioritizing information.There is, therefore, a great need to explore meth-ods for rapid deployment of machine-translationsystems into minority languages.
The questions thatwe seek to address in this paper is how we as a com-munity can prepare for the eventuality of the nextcrisis, can draw from the lessons we learned in theHaitian crisis, and might significantly impact the aideffort in the next and future crises.5 Surprise Languages: What Made HaitiDifferent?On January 19th, 2010, the Microsoft ResearchTranslator team received an e-mail from the field re-questing that they develop an MT engine for HaitianKreyo`l to assist in the relief effort.
At the time, nopublically available MT engine existed for Kreyo`l.In less than five days, the Microsoft Translator sitewas supporting the language.
Given that it can takeweeks to months to develop an MT engine for a newlanguage, it would not seem possible that an enginecould be developed so quickly, especially for a low-resource, minority language.
The reasons this waspossible are varied, and are in some ways unique toKreyo`l.Haitian Kreyo`l, as it turns out, has proven to be anexceptional case for a surprise language.
Unlike thelanguages in Surprise Language Exercises of nearlya decade ago (Oard, 2003; Oard and Och, 2003),in which participants were given a month to collectdata and build language technologies for previouslyunknown languages, including Machine Translationsystems, there was a surprising amount of data forKreyo`l at the start of the Haitian crisis, and it be-came available relatively quickly.
Partly, this is dueto the growth of the Web, which has proven to bea surpisingly diverse multi-lingual resource.
But italso stems crucially from work that had been donein the past on Kreyo`l, specifically, the work that wasdone in the DIPLOMAT and NESPOLE!
projects atCMU (Frederking et al, 1997).
It was possible toassemble a reasonable sample of data for the lan-guage in very short order (i.e., days).
Further, sincethe language itself is fairly reduced morphologically,it is an easier target for SMT.
In contrast, if onewere to sample a language at random from the setof the 7,000 languages spoken on the earth, one ismore likely to find a language that is morpholog-ically richer (e.g., fusional, aggutinating, polysyn-thetic).
Morphological richness compounds the datasparsity problem, reducing the quality of the result-ing SMT engines.In other words, a combination of a simplemorphology combined with reasonably accessiblesources of data made the rapid deployment of MTfor Kreyo`l far more likely.
That is not to saythat there weren?t problems.
First, Kreyo`l is fairly?young?
as a written language8 , and is still in theearly stages of orthographic standardization and nor-malization (Allen, 1998).
This has led to inconsis-tencies in the orthography that increases data sparse-ness and noise.
Further, Kreyo`l has multiple regis-ters in its written form: a ?high?
register that usesfull forms for pronouns and a set of function words,and a ?low?
register that corresponds more closelyto its spoken form, and is written with many con-tractions.
For example, the Kreyo`l word for the firstperson pronoun is mwen.
It can be written as mwen(the high register), or contracted to m?
(the low regis-ter).
The form can either be attached to the succeed-ing word or written with a following space.
Like-wise, the first person possessive is also mwen whichis written following the word that is possessed.
This8Although Haitian Kreyo`l in written form goes back as far asthe late 18th century (see Lefebvre (1998) for material on someof these texts), Kreyo`l as a written language did not becomemore commonplace until the 20th century, not achieving officialstatus in Haiti until 1961.504can be written as ?m, and can be attached to the wordor delimited by a space.
Both m?
and ?m appear insome texts as just m. The same patterns hold for allpronouns, and some function words as well.
See Ta-ble 1 for a list of these reductions.Table 1: Sample Pronouns and ReductionsPronoun Gloss Appears asmwen I, me, mine m, ?m, m?nou you (pl), us n, ?n, n?ou you w, w?li he, she, it l, l?, ?lAdditionally, writers of Kreyo`l use a large num-ber of abbreviated forms for common expressions, akind of shorthand.
For example, ave`n can be used torepresent ave`k nou, mandem can be used for mandemwen, etc.
Overall, the number of alternations andmulti-way ambiguities also increases the level ofnoise and data sparsity.
9So, even with a morphologically reduced lan-guage like Kreyo`l, one has issues with data sparsitybeyond the mere lack of availability of data.
Thiscompounds the low-data aspect of the language.Adding in a multitude of morphological variants, asone might encounter in a Turkic language, or worse,in an Inuit language, would only make the problemmore severe.
The big challenge for Crisis MT is notonly to deal with the data availability problem, butonce one has the data in hand, to deal with the re-duction in the utility of that data caused by noiseand the multiplication of word forms.
These posemajor challenges to our community, which can becountered through additional research, a motivatedand active community, and scores of rapidly appliedheuristics and data repairs.6 Research Areas to Counter DataSparsityAs noted, the major problems with low-resource MTis the lack of data and various data issues that in-crease the sparsity of data already in short supply.What are the research challenges?
How can wemake MT viable quickly for low-resource and si-multaneously morphologically rich languages?9For more details of the Haitian Kreyo`l translation systemsdeveloped at Microsoft Research, please see Lewis (2010).The following constitutes a rough list of solu-tions, many of which map to very interesting re-search problems:?
Crowdsourcing ?
Beyond the use of crowd-sourcing in the crisis context itself (e.g., totranslate or process text messages, much aswhat was done by Mission 4636), novel tech-niques for tapping the crowd could also be usedto add or repair data:?
Repairing and evaluation ?
In this sce-nario, the crowd would be used to repairdata that is obviously noisy, evaluate prob-lems with particular data points, or evenmake simple determinations as to whetherthe data in question is actually in the lan-guage(s) of interest or too noisy to use.?
Translating content, generating new data ?Given crowd sourced, micro-tasking plat-forms such as Amazon?s Mechanical Turkand Crowdflower, one can now easily tapthe crowd to generate new data.
The ma-jor challenge will be identifying if speak-ers of the target language(s) are availableon the desired platform, and if not, if theycould be motivated to particpate.10 Like-wise, infrastructure and resources will beneeded to evaluate the quality of the re-sulting translations (Zaidan and Callison-Burch, 2011).?
Active Crowd Translation ?
This methodcombines active learning with crowd-sourcing for annotation of parallel data incomparable resources, and can be usedto increase the amount of data that isfound (Ambati et al, 2011).
Active learn-ing might be applicable to other crowd-sourcing tasks as well, such as being usedin crowdsourcing for translating contentor repairing translated content.?
Tapping non-traditional sources ?
Critical totraditional approaches of SMT is parallel train-ing data.
Parallel data is difficult to impossibleto come by for a large number of the world?s10Based on the results of an informal survey, there may bespeakers of a hundred or more languages on Mechanical Turk.See http://www.junglelightspeed.com/amt language/ for a listof the languages that may be available on Turk.505languages.
Tapping non-traditional sources ofdata can help increase the supply of ever valu-able training data for a language:?
Mining comparable sources of data ?
min-ing comparable data for parallel data hasa long history, including mining compara-ble sources for named entities (Udupa etal., 2009; Irvine et al, 2010; Hewavitha-rana and Vogel, 2008; Hewavitharana andVogel, 2011), mining Wikipedia for paral-lel content, including sentences (Smith etal., 2010), and many more too numerousto list.
There is always room for improve-ment and hybridization in this space, aswell as tapping additional sources of data,such as the volumes of noisy comparabledata on the Web.?
Monolingual ?
More recent work has fo-cused on mining monolingual sources ofdata, treating MT as a decipherment prob-lem (Ravi and Knight, 2011), rather thana source-target mapping problem.?
Dictionary bootstraps and backoffs ?
De-spite the absence of context, dictionar-ies can be useful, especially for resolvingout-of-vocabulary items (OOVs).
Manybilingual dictionaries also contain exam-ple sentences, which can be harvested andused in training.?
Field data from linguists ?
Given that lin-guists have variously studied a large per-centage of the world?s languages, tappingthe supply of data that they have accu-mulated could prove quite fruitful.
Somerecent work tapping annotated bitexts (atthis time, for over 1,200 languages) pro-duced by linguists may prove useful inthe future (Lewis and Xia, 2010), if fornothing more than to provide informationabout linguistic structure (e.g., morpho-logical complexity or divergences, poten-tial distortion rates, and structural diver-gence (a la Fox (2002))).
Engaging withthe documentary linguistic communityand providing tools to facilitate the col-lection of data might produce additionaldata, especially data where alignment isassisted through human input (Monson etal., 2008).?
Novel ways of countering data sparsity?
Systematizing data cleaning heuristics ?Undoubtedly, the same kinds of filtra-tion and data cleaning heuristics used forKreyo`l could prove useful for speedingup the processing of data for new lan-guages.
Applying Machine Learning tech-niques to data filtration and data cleaningcould aid and generalize the process, thusdecreasing overall latency from acquisi-tion to training.?
Strategies to make the source look morelike the target (or vice versa) ?
A corol-lary to data sparsity is faulty word align-ment, where low frequency words fail toget good alignments because there is notenough data to reinforce fairly weak hy-potheses, or where source-target distor-tion is high.
Both problems disfavor whatalignments do exist.
If the source and tar-get are reordered so that one side moreclosely matches the other, or one side is?enriched?
to be more like the other, onecan reduce distortion related effects, andmight also counter the large number offorms in morphologically rich languages(e.g., (Yeniterzi and Oflazer, 2010; Gen-zel, 2010), and many others).?
Strategies to systematically deal with complexmorphology ?
this is one on-going area of re-search that could still net large returns, since,even with some relatively high-data languages,such as Finnish, data is made sparser due to themultiplication of possible forms.
There is toolong a literature to really do justice here, butsome recent work includes discrimitative lexi-cons (Jeong et al, 2010), sub-word alignmentstrategies (Bodrumlu et al, 2009), learning themorphological variants in a language (Oflazerand El-kahlout, 2007), using off-the-shelf mor-phological tools, e.g., Morfessor 11, etc.?
Use syntax or linguistic knowledge in thetranslation task ?
By reducing the hypothe-sis space for possible alignments, syntax-based11http://www.cis.hut.fi/projects/morpho/506approaches can do better in lower-data situa-tions and can handle source-target discontinu-ities better than straight phrase-based systems(e.g., (Quirk and Menezes, 2006; Li et al,2010)).7 The MT Crisis CookbookGiven the relatively narrow domain context of Cri-sis MT?generally the needed vocabulary and datashould be centered on relief work, medical in-teractions, and communicating with the affectedpopulations?it may be possible to approach CrisisMT as we would MT for any domain (e.g., news,government, etc.).
With enough data relevant to aparticular domain or sub-domain (e.g., earthquake,tsunami, nuclear disaster, flooding, etc.
), it wouldbe possible to build the relevant translation memo-ries (TMs) and train highly domain-specific MT en-gines to produce translations of reasonable qualityand utility.
Even with highly inflected languages, adomain-specific approach may get around many ofthe data sparsity issues.It is also crucial that no data be thrown out.
Re-lief specific content that was relevant to an earliercrisis can certainly contribute to subsequent crises.Among these data are difficult to replicate sourcesof data, such as SMS messages.
This data wouldconstitute a highly domain specific set of data whichwould only grow over time.7.1 Outline of the CookbookThe recipe for the MT Crisis Cookbook consists oftwo parts:1.
The content that would be most useful in crisissituations.
This consists of relief-centric vocab-ulary, phrases, sentences, and other material.
Itshould be in some common ?source?
language,likely English (English is a reasonable ?pivot?in and out of many other languages, given theubiquity of English-to-X content).2.
The infrastructure to support relief workers,aid agencies, and the affected population.
Asmade obvious in Haiti, an SMS messaginginfrastructure integrated into a crowd-sourcedtranslation infrastructure, proved to be crucial.For future crises, this infrastructure should bestreamlined and have public MT APIs inte-grated directly into it (to support first pass MT).7.2 Cookbook DataAs noted in Section 5, one way to counter the datasparsity problem is to build domain specific engines,with a set of data ready-to-go in the event of a crisis.This data, which would exist in English and possiblyother languages, would be translated into the targetlanguage (if needed), distributed to to aid organiza-tions (as needed), and used to train MT engines andother language processing resources.
The followinglist constitutes a set of possible sources.
It is by nomeans complete (for instance, some resources spe-cific to particular crisis types, e.g., floods, nucleardisasters, etc.
are not included), but it does repre-sent a good central core of resources that should bepart of any Crisis Cookbook12 :?
Where There is No Doctor ?
This is one of themost recognized and widely used and usefulreferences in under-resourced regions aroundthe world.
The publisher of the text, the Hespe-rian Foundation, has already had the text trans-lated into 75 languages, and it is available inPDF as a free download from their website.13?
CMU Medical Domain Phrases, Sentences,and Glossary ?
Collected under the jointlyNSF/EU funded NESPOLE!
and DIPLOMATprojects (Frederking et al, 1997), this data con-sists of common phrases and sentences thatwould be useful in a crisis medical scenario,and would be quite useful for training MT, asit was for training the Kreyo`l engines.
Only theEnglish side of this data would be relevant tofuture crises.?
Anonymized Crisis-related SMS Messages ?Relief-related SMS messages may be particu-larly useful in future crises, since those col-lected in a crisis scenario are likely to containcontent that transfers readily to similar crises.A selected sample of the 80,000+ messages re-sulting from the Haitian crisis could constitute12Some of the resources listed here are under copyright.There may need to be some negotiation with the copyright own-ers to ensure that the texts can be used, and how they can beused (e.g., to train MT, to be used in TMs, to be distributed inhardcopy form, etc.
).13http://hesperian.org/507a reasonable core of SMS messages that couldbe added to over time.?
Red Cross Emergency Multilingual Phrase-book ?
A small, but highly focused, set ofphrases and questions useful in an emergencymedical context.
Available in multiple lan-guages.?
Emergency and Crisis Communication Vocab-ulary ?
An example bilingual set was preparedby the Canadian Government in both Frenchand English14 , consisting of a small list of?official?
terms needed in crisis situations, andtheir associated descriptions.
Although theterms on the Canadian site are translated anddefined only in English and French and havea bias to the Canadian government nomecla-ture, having such a list of terms from multi-ple government agencies and their definitionscould prove useful for relief vocabulary as wellas for vocabulary needed for official announce-ments.?
High Frequency Wikipedia Disaster Content?
This would consist of vocabulary that re-curs across multiple related crisis pages onwikipedia.
The idea is to harvest those termsthat repeat across multiple pages of the same?sub-domain?
(e.g., those that cover eventswith floods, earthquakes, nuclear disasters,etc.
), but document disasters in different lo-cales, where cross-page repeated vocabulary isfavored (substracting out high-frequency vo-cabulary that occurs elsewhere).
This vocab-ulary could be distilled automatically from aset of relevant pages, and would likely containcore vocabulary for specific crisis and disas-ter contexts.
For instance, shared vocabularybetween the Japanese, Indonesian, Pakistani,and Haitian Earthquake pages might contain areasonable set of vocabulary relevant to earth-quake crises as a whole.7.3 Cookbook InfrastructureThe Cookbook infrastructure draws directly on whatwas found to be useful in the Haitian Crisis.
Here arethe infrastructural components we see as crucial:14http://www.btb.gc.ca/publications/documents/crise-crisis.pdf?
A crowd sourced microtasking infrastructureto translate and route messages from the field.This proved to be essential in Haiti.
Hav-ing such an infrastructure ready-to-go for fu-ture crises would shave days off implementa-tion and likely have profound effects on the ra-pidity of the response.?
Integration of the APIs for the publically avail-able MT services, such as Microsoft Transla-tor and Google Translate, into the microtask-ing and messaging infrastructure, enabling pro-cessing of SMS messages, Twitter feeds, etc.In this way, when any of these services deployMT for a given crisis language, the switch canbe flipped and first-pass can be MT activated ata moment?s notice.?
A ready-to-go smart phone app that acts as acrisis Translation Memory, which can be pop-ulated with Cookbook content as it becomesavailable.
In this manner, rather than relyingon the distribution of paper copies of Cook-book materials, relief workers on the groundcould just sync-up their mobile devices to getthe latest content.
This is particularly impor-tant in crisis locales where ?data plan?
accessis limited, and phones will thus not necessarilyhave online access to cloud based resources ona regular basis.8 A Sample Crisis TimelineThe following timeline is only meant to demonstratewhat might be possible with the right infrastructurein place and the community fully engaged.
Themantra of ?every crisis is different?
applies, and thistimeline should not be interpreted as a ?cookbook?for a future event.
All place and entity names areintended to add realism; there was no intention toleave anyone in or out.Day 0 ?
A massive earthquake hits the island nationof Palladi.Day 1 ?
The first aid organizations arrive on the is-land with food and humanitarian aid, althoughonly the two major cities are directly accessi-ble.
Thousands of Palladians are not reach-able by aid organizations, and the exact num-bers that are affected and their locations are notknown.508The native population of Palladians is nearly80% monolingual.
There is a dire need for Pal-ladian interpreters, but also of translated Pal-ladian content.
Notified of the need for Pal-ladian translations, MT community volunteersbegin efforts to collect and license data in Pal-ladian.
The relief community responds by ac-tivating the crowd sourcing infrastructure usedin other relief scenarios.
Researchers and disas-ter response teams are notified at Microsoft Re-search and Google Research of the critical needfor crisis content to be translated into Palladian.Native Palladian speakers are being looked forby all parties.Day 2 ?
As with the Haitian crisis, a text messag-ing infrastructure is put in place such that textmessages can be received from the populationand routed to a crowd of rapidly assemblingvolunteers.
Since there is some internet ac-cess, including via mobile phones, twitter feedsare monitored.
Until messages start arriving, asmall crowd of Palladian speakers begin trans-lating content into Palladian, focused specifi-cally on the Cookbook and off-the-shelf SMScontent.The first text messages start arriving by late af-ternoon.
These text messages are routed di-rectly to the text messaging and microtaskinginfrastructure.
The small but growing crowdof Palladian translators begin translating thisgrowing tide of messages.Day 3 ?
The humanitarian information processingcommunity, with the support of many organiza-tions and volunteers, releases the first sectionsof the Crisis Cookbook.
The Crisis Cookbookis transmitted directly to aid organizations onthe ground in Palladi, and soft- and hard-copiesare distributed to aid workers as quickly as fea-sible.AT&T puts into place several cell towers withsatellite connectivity for areas that do not havecell coverage.
Within hours, text and twittermessages from the field increase dramatically.Day 4 ?
Microsoft and Google release the first ver-sions of their Palladian-English translators,with ready access via their public APIs.
Sincethe text messaging infrastructure already hasboth APIs integrated directly into the micro-tasking and message processing infrastructure,both engines are activated immediately, and allmessages are translated first by one or the otherengine, and the MT?d content along with theoriginal message are handed to volunteers.15Translations are repaired, and routed directly toaid organizations, and to the Google and Mi-crosoft teams (for retraining models).Day 5 ?
Additional cookbook materials are trans-lated.
Researchers at Johns Hopkins locate astash of Palladian data at the Palladian Cen-tral University.
This data is posted at the CMUsite, and is immediately consumed by all par-ties working on the MT problem.Day 6 ?
Researchers at University of Edinburgh de-velop a novel algorithm for dealing with Palla-dian vowel harmony, which has been a majorproblem with Palladian MT, since data sparsityis exacerbated by the problem.
The Edinburghresearchers publish the algorithm immediatelyto their Web site, and notify both Microsoft andGoogle.Day 10 ?
Armed with algorithmic improvementsand an increasing volume of data, machinetranslated content is now achieving sufficientquality to warrant passing it directly to aid or-ganizations.
Palladian volunteers now workprincipally on the hard to translate cases (thosewith high OOVs), and on post-response dataclean-up.
The fruits of their labor result in iter-ative improvements on the various MT enginesthat have been deployed.Day 11+ ?
The deployment of language technolo-gies, specifically MT, in the Palladian crisis re-sults in saving untold thousands of lives.
Thelessons learned in the Palladian earthquake willbe applied to future crises, and the translatedcontent produced by volunteers will be addedto the cookbook for use in the next crisis.15Determining which engine to send translations to is a prob-lem that should be resolved in advance.
A combination of eitherrandom selection or on-the-fly OOV calculations could be usedto determine routing.5099 ConclusionIn this paper, we propose that MT is an importanttechnology in crisis events, something that can andshould be an integral part of the rapid-response in-frastructure.
By integrating MT services directlyinto a messaging infrastructure (whatever the type ofmessages being serviced, e.g., text messages, Twit-ter feeds, blog postings, etc.
), MT can be used toprovide first pass translations into a majority lan-guage, which can assist in triaging messages androuting them to appropriate aid agencies.
If doneright, MT can dramatically increase the speed bywhich relief can be provided.
To ensure that MTis a standard tool in the arsenal of tools used in cri-sis events, we propose a preliminary Crisis Cook-book, the data contents of which could be translatedinto the relevant language(s) by volunteers imme-diately after a crisis event takes place.
The result-ing data can then be made available to relief groupson the ground, as well as to providers of MT ser-vices.
We also note that there are significant con-tributions that our community can make to relief ef-forts through continued work on our research, espe-cially that research which makes MT more viable forunder-resourced languages.CreditsThis paper is dedicated to the thousands of volun-teers who worked selflessly for many, many hoursin aid of the people of Haiti.
Without their help,many hundreds more would have perished.
We alsowish to express our deepest appreciation to all thosewho have devoted their lives to aid people in need,especially the first responders in crisis events.
It isour sincerest hope that that the small measures ourcommunity can take to assist in relief efforts willhelp make your jobs more effective, and that our ef-forts will ultimately assist you and those you striveto help.ReferencesJeffrey Allen.
1998.
Lexical variation in Haitian Cre-ole and orthographic issues for Machine Translation(MT) and Optical Character Recognition (OCR) appli-cations.
In Association for Machine Translation in theAmericas (AMTA) Workshop on Embedded MT Sys-tems: Design, Construction, and Evaluation of Sys-tems with an MT Component, Langhorne, Pennsylva-nia.Vamshi Ambati, Sanjika Hewavitharana, Stephan Vogel,and Jaime Carbonell.
2011.
Active Learning withMultiple Annotations for Comparable Data Classifi-cation Task.
In Proceedings of ACL 2011, Portland,Oregon, June.Sharon Anderson.
2010.
Talking with Adm. James G.Stavridis Supreme Allied Commander, Europe Com-mander, U.S. European Command.
CHIPS - The De-partment of the Navy Information Technology Maga-zine, 28.Tugba Bodrumlu, Kevin Knight, and Sujith Ravi.
2009.A New Objective Function for Word Alignment.
InProceedings of the NAACL/HLT Workshop on Inte-ger Programming for Natural Language Processing,Boulder, Colorado.Disaster 2.0.
2011.
Disaster Relief 2.0: The Futureof Information Sharing in Humanitarian Emergencies.United Nations Foundation, UN Office for the Coor-dination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA), Voda-fone Foundation, Harvard Humanitarian Initiative.Heidi Fox.
2002.
Phrasal cohesion and statistical ma-chine translation.
In Proceedings of EMNLP 2002,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.Robert Frederking, Alexander Rudnicky, and ChristopherHogan.
1997.
Interactive speech translation in thediplomat project.
In Workshop on Spoken LanguageTranslation at ACL-97, Madrid.Dmitriy Genzel.
2010.
Automatically Learning Source-side Reordering Rules for Large Scale Machine Trans-lation.
In Proceedings of COLING 2010, Beijing, Au-gust.Sanjika Hewavitharana and Stephan Vogel.
2008.
En-hancing a Statistical Machine Translation System byusing an Automatically Extracted Parallel Corpusfrom Comparable Sources.
In Proceedings of the 6thInternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2008), Workshop on ComparableCorpora, Marrakech, Morocco, May.Sanjika Hewavitharana and Stephan Vogel.
2011.
Ex-tracting Parallel Phrases from Comparable Data.
InProceedings of ACL 2011, Portland, Oregon, June.Ann Irvine, Chris Callison-Burch, and Alexandre Kle-mentiev.
2010.
Transliterating from all languages.
In510Proceedings of the Ninth Conference of the Associa-tion for Machine Translation in the Americas (AMTA2010), Denver.Minwoo Jeong, Kristina Toutanova, Hisami Suzuki, andChris Quirk.
2010.
A Discriminative Lexicon Modelfor Complex Morphology.
In Proceedings of the NinthConference of the Association for Machine Translationin the Americas (AMTA 2010), Denver.Claire Lefebvre.
1998.
Creole Genesis and the Acquisi-tion of Grammar: The case of Haitian Creole.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, England.William D. Lewis and Fei Xia.
2010.
DevelopingODIN: A Multilingual Repository of AnnotatedLanguage Data for Hundreds of the World?s Lan-guages.
Literary and Linguistic Computing.
See:http://research.microsoft.com/apps/pubs/default.aspx?id=138757.William D. Lewis.
2010.
Haitian Creole: How to Buildand Ship an MT Engine from Scratch in 4 Days, 17Hours, & 30 Minutes.
In EAMT 2010: Proceedings ofthe 14th Annual conference of the European Associa-tion for Machine Translation, Saint Raphae?l, France,May.Zhifei Li, Chris Callison-Burch, Chris Dyer, Juri Gan-itkevitch, Ann Irvine, Lane Schwartz, Wren N. G.Thornton, Ziyuan Wang, Jonathan Weese, and Omar F.Zaidan.
2010.
Joshua 2.0: A Toolkit for Parsing-Based Machine Translation with Syntax, Semirings,Discriminative Training and Other Goodies.
In In Pro-ceedings of Workshop on Statistical Machine Transla-tion (WMT10), Uppsala, Sweden.Christian Monson, Ariadna Font Llitjos, Vamshi Ambati,Lori Levin, Alon Lavie, Alison Alvarez, Robert Fred-erking Roberto Aranovich, Jaime Carbonell, Erik Pe-terson, and Katharina Probst.
2008.
Linguistic Struc-ture and Bilingual Informants Help Induce MachineTranslation of Lesser-Resourced Languages.
In Pro-ceedings of the 6th International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008), Mar-rakech, Morocco.Robert Munro.
2010.
Crowdsourced translation foremergency response in Haiti: the global collaborationof local knowledge.
In AMTA Workshop on Collabo-rative Crowdsourcing for Translation.Robert Munro.
2011.
Subword and spatiotemporal mod-els for identifying actionable information in HaitianKreyol.
In Fifteenth Conference on ComputationalNatural Language Learning (CoNLL 2011), Portland.Douglas W. Oard and Franz Josef Och.
2003.
Rapid-Response Machine Translation for Unexpected Lan-guages.
In MT Summit IX, New Orleans.Douglas W. Oard.
2003.
The Surprise Language Exer-cises.
ACM Transactions on Asian Language Informa-tion Processing - TALIP, 2(2):79?84.Kemal Oflazer and Ilknur Durgar El-kahlout.
2007.
Ex-ploring Different Representational Units in English-to-Turkish Statistical Machine Translation.
In In Pro-ceedings of the Statistical Machine Translation Work-shop, ACL 2007, Prague.Chris Quirk and Arul Menezes.
2006.
DependencyTreelet Translation: The convergence of statistical andexample-based machine translation?
Machine Trans-lation, 20:43?65.Sujith Ravi and Kevin Knight.
2011.
Deciphering for-eign language.
In Proceedings of ACL 2011, Portland,Oregon, June.RC.
2010.
The American Red Cross: Social Media inDisasters and Emergencies.
Presentation.Jason Smith, Chris Quirk, and Kristina Toutanova.
2010.Extracting parallel sentences from comparable cor-pora using document level alignment.
In Proceedingsof Human Language Technologies: The 2010 AnnualConference of the North American Chapter of the ACL,Los Angeles.Raghavendra Udupa, K Saravanan, A Kumaran, and Ja-gadeesh Jagarlamudi.
2009.
MINT: A Method for Ef-fective and Scalable Mining of Named Entity Translit-erations from Large Comparable Corpora.
In Proceed-ings of the 12th Conference of the European Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics(EACL 2009), Athens, Greece.Andrej Verity.
2011.
What the UN could not havedone without the Volunteer Technical Community.
InUnited Nations Dispatch.
The Disaster Relief 2.0 BlogSeries.Reyyan Yeniterzi and Kemal Oflazer.
2010.
Syntax-to-Morphology Mapping in Factored Phrase-Based Sta-tistical Machine Translation from English to Turkish.In Proceedings of the ACL 2010, Uppsala, Sweden.Omar Zaidan and Chris Callison-Burch.
2011.
Crowd-sourcing Translation: Professional Quality from Non-Professionals.
In Proceedings of ACL 2011, Portland,Oregon, June.511
