Interpreting tractable versus intractable reciprocal sentencesOliver Botta, Fabian Schlotterbecka & Jakub SzymanikbSFB 833, University of T?bingena, University of Stockholmboliver.bott@uni-tuebingen.defabian.schlotterbeck@uni-tuebingen.dejakub.szymanik@gmail.comAbstractIn three experiments, we investigated the computational complexity of German reciprocal sen-tences with different quantificational antecedents.
Building upon the tractable cognition thesis (vanRooij, 2008) and its application to the verification of quantifiers (Szymanik, 2010) we predictedcomplexity differences among these sentences.
Reciprocals with all-antecedents are expected topreferably receive a strong interpretation (Dalrymple et al, 1998), but reciprocals with proportionalor numerical quantifier antecedents should be interpreted weakly.
Experiment 1, where participantscompleted pictures according to their preferred interpretation, provides evidence for these predic-tions.
Experiment 2 was a picture verification task.
The results show that the strong interpretationwas in fact possible for tractable all but one-reciprocals, but not for exactly n. The last experimentmanipulated monotonicity of the quantifier antecedents.Formal semantics hasn?t paid much attention to issues of computational complexity when the mean-ing of an expression is derived.
However, when it comes to semantic processing in humans (and com-puters) with limited processing resources, computational tractability becomes one of the most importantconstraints a cognitively realistic semantics must face.
Two consequences come to mind immediately.If there is a choice between algorithms, we should choose tractable ones over intractable ones.
Andsecondly, meanings which cannot be effectively computed shouldn?t be posited for natural languageexpressions.
In this paper we present three psycholinguistic experiments investigating the latter aspect.Following traditions in computer science, a number of cognitive scientists have defined computa-tional tractability as polynomial-time-computability (for an overview see van Rooij, 2008) leading to theP-Cognition Hypothesis (PCH): cognitive capacities are limited to those functions that can be computedin polynomial time.
These functions are input-output functions in the sense of Marr (1982)?s first level.One objection against the PCH is that computational complexity is defined in terms of limit behavior asthe input increases.
In practice, however, the input may be rather small.
van Rooij (2008) points outthat the input size can be parametrized turning a problem that is intractable for a large input size into atractable one for small inputs.
We manipulated the input size in an experiment to test this more refinedversion of the PCH.An interesting test case for the PCH are quantified sentences containing reciprocal expressions of theform Q of the As R each other.
Consider (1-a) ?
(1-c).75(1) a.
Most of the dots are connected to each other.b.
Four of the dots are connected to each other.c.
All dots are connected to each other.It has been commonly observed that such sentences are highly ambiguous (see eg.
Dalrymple et al,1998).
For instance, under its logically strongest interpretation (1-a) is true iff given n dots there is asubset of more than n2 dots which are pairwise connected.
But there are weaker readings of reciprocity,too, i.e.
connectedness by a path (a continuous path runs through Q of the dots) or ?
even weaker ?
Qof the dots are interconnected, but no path has to connect them all.
Following Dalrymple et al (1998)we call these reciprocal meanings strong, intermediate, and weak, respectively.
As for verification, Szy-manik (2010) has shown that the various meanings assigned to reciprocals with quantified antecedentsdiffer drastically in their computational complexity.
In particular, the strong meanings of reciprocal sen-tences with proportional and counting1 quantifiers in their antecedents are intractable, i.e.
the verificationproblem for those readings is NP-complete.
This is due to the combinatorial explosion in identifying therelevant completely-connected subsets for these two types of quantifiers (cf.
CLIQUE problem, seeGarey and Johnson (1979, problem GT19)) which does not emerge with all.
However, intermediate andweak interpretations are PTIME computable.
For example, going through all the elements in the model,thereby listing all the paths, and then evaluating the paths against the quantifier in the antecedent solvesthe problem in ploynomial time.
The PCH thus allows us to derive the following predictions.
A stronginterpretation should be impossible for sentences (1-a) and (1-b), but possible for the tractable sentence(1-c).
Therefore, Szymanik (2010) suggests that if the processor initially tries to establish a strong in-terpretation, there should be a change in the meanings of sentences (1-a) and (1-b) to one of the weakerinterpretations.In an attempt to explain variations in the literal meaning of the reciprocal expressions Dalrympleet al (1998) proposed the Strong Meaning Hypothesis (SMH).
According to the SMH, the reading asso-ciated with the reciprocal is the strongest available reading which is consistent with the properties of thereciprocal relation and the relevant information supplied by the context.
Consider (2-a) to (2-c).
(2) a.
All members of parliament refer to each other indirectly.b.
All Boston pitchers sat alongside each other.c.
All pirates were staring at each other in surprise.The interpretation of reciprocity differs among those sentences.
Sentence (2-a) implies that each par-liament member refers to each of the other parliament members indirectly.
In other words, the stronginterpretation seems to be the most natural reading.
This is different in (2-b) and (2-c) which receiveintermediate and weak interpretations, respectively.
Here the predicates sit alongside and stare at ar-guably constrain the meaning.
Observations like these lend intuitive support to the SMH.
Kerem et al(2010) modified the SMH and provided experimental evidence that comprehenders are biased towards1It is natural to assume that people have one quantifier concept Exactly k, for every natural number k, rather than the infiniteset of concepts Exactly 1, Exactly 2, and so on.
Mathematically, we can account for this idea by introducing the countingquantifier C=A saying that the number of elements satisfying some property is equal to the cardinality of the set A.
The ideahere is that determiners like Exactly k express a relation between the number of elements satisfying a certain property and thecardinality of some prototypical set A (see Szymanik (2010) for more discussion).76the most typical interpretation of the reciprocal relation.
Thus, the reciprocal relation seems to constrainthe meaning.
Neither the original SMH nor Kerem et al (2010)?s account leads us to expect that the threequantifiers in (1-a) ?
(1-c) should differ with respect to how they constrain reciprocal meanings.
With?neutral?
predicates like to be connected by lines the SMH predicts an overall preference for the stronginterpretation in all three sentences.
A property that should matter, though, is the monotonicity of thequantificational antecedent.
Since monotone decreasing quantifiers have the exact opposite entailmentpattern as increasing ones, the SMH leads us to expect that preferences should be reversed in monotonedecreasing quantificational antecedents.We tested the PCH and the SMH in three experiments.
In the first we surveyed the default interpre-tation of reciprocal sentences with quantificational antecedents like (1-a) ?
(1-c) by having participantscomplete dot pictures.
The second experiment tested the availability of strong and intermediate inter-pretations in a picture verification task using clearly disambiguated pictures where, in addition, the inputsize was manipulated.
The last experiment compared upward increasing and decreasing quantifiers.Experiment 1: what is the preferred interpretation?According to the SMH, sentences like (3-a) are preferably interpreted with their strong meaning in (3-b).
(3) a. All/Most/Four of the dots are connected to each other.b.
?X ?
DOTS[Q(DOTS,X) ?
?x, y ?
X(x = y ?
connect(x, y))],where Q is ALL, MOST or FOUR.The PCH, on the other hand, predicts differences between the three quantifiers.
While the strong meaningof reciprocal all can be checked in polynomial time, verifying the strong interpretation of reciprocal mostand reciprocal four is NP-hard2.
By contrast, the weaker readings are computable in polynomial timefor all three types of quantifiers.
It is thus expected that the choice of Q should affect the preferencefor strong vs. intermediate/weak interpretations.
Bringing the SMH and the PCH together we get thefollowing predictions: reciprocal all should receive a strong reading, but reciprocal most/four shouldreceive an intermediate or weak one.MethodThese predictions were tested in a paper-and-pencil questionnaire.
23 German native speakers (meanage 24.3 years; 10 female) received a series of sentences, each paired with a picture of unconnected dots.Their task was to connect the dots in such a way that the resulting picture matched their interpretation ofthe sentence.
We tested German sentences in the following three conditions (all vs. most vs.
four).
(4) AlleAll//DieThemeistenmost//VierFourPunktedotssindaremiteinanderwith-one-otherverbunden.connected.All / Most / Four dots are connected with each other.All-sentences were always paired with a picture consisting of four dots, whereas most and four had pic-tures with seven dots.
Each participant completed five pictures for each quantifier.
For this purpose, we2See footnote 1.77drew 15 pictures with randomly distributed dots.
In addition, we included 48 filler sentences.
Half ofthem clearly required a complete (sub)graph, just like the experimental sentences in their strong interpre-tation.
The other half were only consistent with a path.
We constructed four pseudorandomized orders,making sure that two adjacent items were separated by at least two fillers and each condition was as oftenpreceded by a complete graph filler as it was by a path filler.
The latter was done to prevent participantsfrom being biased towards either strong or intermediate interpretations in any of the conditions.The completed pictures were labeled with respect to the chosen interpretation taking both truth con-ditions and scalar implicatures into account3.
A picture was judged to show a strong meaning if the truthconditions in (3-b) were met and no implicatures of Q were violated.
It was classified as intermediate ifa (sub)graph of appropriate size was connected by a continuous path, but there was no complete graphconnecting these nodes.
Finally, a picture was labeled weak if Q nodes all had some connections, butthere was no path connecting them all.
Since we didn?t find any weak readings, we will just consider thestrong and intermediate readings in the analysis.
Cases that did not correspond to any of these readingswere coded as mistakes.
Here is an example:(5) Most of the dots are connected to each other.Since the strong meaning of (5) requires at least four dots to form a complete subgraph, (5) is clearlyfalse in this reading.
The intermediate or weak reading is ruled out pragmatically, since all dots are con-nected by a continuous path.
We checked whether participants obeyed pragmatic principles by analyzingsentences in the condition with four.
In this condition participants (except for six cases) never connectedmore than four dots suggesting that they paid attention to implicatures.ResultsThe proportions of strong meanings in the three conditions were analyzed using logit mixed effectsmodel analyses (see eg.
J?ger (2009)) with quantifier as a fixed effect and participants and items asrandom effects.
We computed three pairwise comparisons: all vs. most, all vs. four and most vs. four.In all of these analyses, we only included the correct pictures.Participants chose strong meanings in the all-condition 47.0% of the time, 22.9% in the most-condition and 17.4% in the four-condition.
The logit mixed effects model analyses revealed a significantdifference between all and most (estimate = ?1.82; z = ?3.99; p < .01) and between all and four(estimate = ?3.16; z = ?5.51; p < .01), but only a marginally significant difference between fourand most (estimate = .80; z = 1.65; p = .10).The error rates differed between conditions.
Participants did not make a single mistake in the all-condition.
In the four-condition 94.8% of the answers were correct.
In the most-condition the proportionof correct pictures dropped down to 83.5%.
Two pairwise comparisons using Fisher?s exact test revealed3Implicatures were only an issue in the four- and the most-conditions, but not in the all-condition.78a significant difference between all and four (p < .05) and a significant difference between four and most(p < .01).DiscussionThe results provide evidence against the SMH.
Participants overwhelmingly drew pictures which do notsatisfy a strong reading.
In the all condition our data provide evidence for a real ambiguity betweenthe strong and the intermediate interpretation.
This is unexpected under the SMH; if the predicate to beconnected is neutral, a strong interpretation should be favored.
For the quantifiers most and four, theresults provide even stronger evidence against the SMH.
In these two conditions intermediate readingswere clearly preferred over strong ones which were hardly, if at all, available.The PCH, on the other hand, receives initial support by our findings, in particular by the observeddifference in the proportion of strong interpretations between reciprocal all, reciprocal most and recip-rocal four.
The error rates provide further support for the PCH.
Most and four led to more errors thanall did.
This can be accounted for if we assume that participants sometimes tried to compute a stronginterpretation but due to the complexity of the task failed to do so.
To clarify whether this explanationis on the right track we clearly need real-time data on the interpretation process.
This has to be left tofuture research.
Another open question is whether the strong readings of reciprocal most and reciprocalfour are just dispreferred or completely unavailable.
This cannot be decided on the basis of the currentexperiment.
What is needed instead is a task which allows us to determine whether a particular readingis possible or not.Experiment 2: which readings are available?The second experiment employed a picture verification task using clearly disambiguating pictures forstrong vs. intermediate readings.
Unfortunately, the quantifiers we used in the last experiment are allupward monotone in their right argument and therefore their strong interpretation implies the interme-diate reading.
Hence, even if the diagrams supporting the strong reading were judged to be true, westill wouldn?t know which interpretation subjects had in mind.
Luckily, in sentences that contain non-monotone quantifiers neither reading entails the other.
We therefore chose the quantifiers all but one,most and exactly n in (6).
All but one and exactly four are clearly non-monotone.
For most, if we takethe implicature most, but not all into account, it is possible to construct strong pictures in a way that theother readings are ruled out pragmatically.
Crucially, the strong reading of all but one is still PTIMEcomputable, although it is more complex than all.
For instance, for verifying a model of size n, only then subsets of size n ?
1 have to be considered.
By contrast, verifying the strong meaning of (6-b,c) isintractable.
(6) a. AlleAllPunktedotsbisexceptaufforeinenonesindaremiteinanderwith-one-anotherverbunden.connected.b.
DieThemeistenmostPunktedotssindaremiteinanderwith-one-anotherverbunden.connected.79(a) intermediate (b) strong (c) wrong (d) ambiguous(e) intermediate (f) strong (g) wrong (h) ambiguousFigure 1: Diagrams used in Exp.
2c.
GenauExactlydreithreePunktedotssindaremiteinanderwith-one-anotherverbunden.connected.We paired these sentences with diagrams disambiguating towards the intermediate or strong reading.Sample diagrams are depicted in Figure 1(a) and 1(b).
For strong pictures, the PCH predicts lower ac-ceptance rates for (6-b,c) than for (6-a).
In order to find out whether the strong readings of (6-b,c) aredispreferred or completely unavailable we also paired them with false control diagrams (see Figure1(c)).The wrong pictures differed from the strong ones in that a single line was removed from the completelyconnected subset.
If the strong reading is available for these two sentences at all, we expect more positivejudgments following a strong diagram than following a false control.
Furthermore, we included ambigu-ous diagrams as an upper bound for the intermediate pictures (cf.
Figure 1(d)).
If the strong meaningshould conflict with an intermediate picture, we would expect more positive responses following anambiguous diagram than following an intermediate diagram.Secondly, as mentioned in the introduction we wanted to investigate whether availability of the strongreading in sentences with counting or proportional quantifiers depends on the size of the model.
Thestrong meaning of (6-b,c) may be easy to verify in small universes, but not in larger ones.
To test thispossibility we manipulated the number of dots.
Small models always contained four dots and largemodels six dots.
We chose small models only consisting of four dots because this is the smallest numberfor which the strong meaning can be distinguished from the intermediate interpretation, so we could besure that the task would be doable at all4.
For the more complex six-dot pictures we presented sentenceswith exactly five instead of exactly three.
Example diagrams are given in Figure 15.
In total, this yielded24 conditions according to a 3 (quantifier) ?
4 (picture type) ?
2 (size) factorial design.4We had the intuitive impression that pictures with ten dots were already far too complex to be evaluated by naive informants.5The wrong pictures with six dots were slightly different for most.
In these diagrams, all dots were connected by lines, butthere was no subset containing four or more elements forming a complete graph.80Figure 2: Mean judgments in Exp.
2 (low = pictures with 4 dots; high = pictures with 6 dots)MethodEach participant provided three judgments per condition yielding a total of 72 experimental trials.
Weadded 54 filler trials (20 false/34 true) and the 12 monotonicity trials from Experiment 3.36 German native speakers (mean age 26.9 years; 23 female) read reciprocal quantified sentenceson a computer screen in a self-paced fashion.
When they finished reading the sentence, it disappearedfrom the screen and a dot picture was presented for which a truth value judgment had to be providedwithin a time limit of 10s6.
Participants received feedback about how fast they had responded.
This wasdone to trigger the first interpretation they had in mind.
We collected judgments and judgment times,but because of space limitations will only report the former.
The experiment started with a practicesession of 10 trials, followed by the experiment with 138 trials in an individually randomized order.
Anexperimental session lasted approximately 15 minutes.ResultsTwo kinds of analyses were conducted on the proportion of ?true?
judgments.
The upper bound analysesconcerned the default status of the intermediate interpretation by comparing intermediate picture con-ditions with ambiguous conditions.
Lower bound analyses aimed at clarifying the status of the stronginterpretation by comparing strong picture conditions with wrong conditions.
The mean judgments ofboth analyses are presented in Figure 2.Upper bound analysis: A logit mixed effects model analysis including quantifier, reading (am-biguous vs. intermediate), complexity and their interactions as fixed effects and participants and itemsas random effects only revealed a significant main effect of reading (estimate = ?2.37; z = ?2.88;p < .01).
This main effect was due to an across-the-board preference (7.3% on average) of ambiguouspictures to pictures disambiguating towards an intermediate interpretation.Lower bound analyses: We computed a logit mixed effects model analysis including quantifier,truth (strong vs. wrong), complexity and their interactions as fixed effects and participants and items asrandom effects.
The only reliable effect was the fixed effect of quantifier (estimate = 3.31; z = 8.10;p < .01).
The effect of truth was marginal (estimate = 0.72; z = 1.77; p = .07).
As it turned6Participants were very fast.
On average they spent 2.5s reading the sentence and 1.8s to provide a judgment.81out, a simpler model taking into account only these two main effects and the random effects accountedfor the data with a comparable fit.
This was revealed by a comparison of the log-likelihood of thesaturated and the simpler model (?2(8) = 12.36; p = .14).
Thus, complexity had no significant influenceon the judgments.
The simple model revealed a significant main effect of truth (estimate = 0.67;z = 4.08; p < .01) which was due to 7.9% more ?true?
judgments on average in the strong conditionsthan in the wrong conditions.
The main effect of quantifier was also significant (most vs. all/exactly:estimate = 3.21; z = 15.10; p < .01).
This was due to more than 60% acceptance for all mostconditions but much lower acceptance for the other two quantifiers.We analyzed the data by computing separate logit mixed effect models with fixed effects of truth,complexity and their interaction for all three quantifiers and simplified the models when a fixed effectfailed to contribute to model fit.
The best model for all but one contained only the fixed effect of truthwhich was reliable (estimate = 1.04; z = 3.47; p < .01), but neither complexity nor the interactionenhanced model fit (?2(2) = 1.04; p = .60).
Thus, independently of complexity strong pictures were moreoften accepted than wrong pictures.
The same held for most (fixed effect of truth: estimate = 0.98;z = 2.71; p < .01).
Exactly n was different in that the fixed effect of truth and the interaction didn?tmatter (?2(2) = 2.68; p = .26), but complexity was significant (estimate = ?0.97; z = ?2.96; p < .01).This effect was due to more errors in complex pictures than in simpler ones.DiscussionOverall, the intermediate reading was overwhelmingly preferred to the strong one.
However, both theupper bound and the lower bound analyses provide evidence that the strong reading is available to somedegree.
Both analyses revealed a significant effect of picture type.
Intermediate diagrams were lessoften accepted than the ambiguous diagrams.
Moreover, strong diagrams were more often accepted thanfalse ones.
Focussing on all but one and exactly n with respect to the difference between the strongand wrong conditions the pattern looks as predicted by the PCH.
The strong reading was possible fortractable all but one reciprocals but less so for intractable exactly n reciprocals.
With most, the picturelooks different.
Even though verification of its strong meaning should be intractable, there was a reliabledifference between the strong and wrong conditions.
Thus, participants seemed to sometimes choosestrong readings.
An intractable problem can of course be innocuous under certain circumstances, forinstance, when the input size is sufficiently small.
The lack of effects of the number of dots manipulationpoints in this direction.
Perhaps even the ?complex?
conditions with six dots presented a relatively easytask.
This brings us to a parametrized version of the PCH.
A hard verification problem may be easy if weinclude parameters like the size and arrangement of the model.
Although far from conclusive, we takeour results as pointing in this direction.Surprisingly, most was accepted quite often in the strong and the allegedly wrong conditions.
Thehigh acceptance rates in the latter indicate that participants were canceling the implicature of most andinterpreting it as the upward monotone more than half.
This also explains the high acceptance of thestrong most conditions which were, without implicature, consistent with an intermediate interpretation.82Experiment 3: monotone increasing vs. decreasing antecedentsSo far, we have been investigating reciprocal sentences with the upward monotone quantifiers all, most,four (Exp.
1) and the non-monotone quantifiers all but one and exactly n (Exp.
2).
As it looks, onlyall licenses a strong interpretation easily.
This finding may follow from the monotonicity plus impli-catures.
According to Dalrymple et al (1998)?s SMH strong readings are preferred in sentences withupward monotone quantificational antecedents.
For downward monotone quantifiers, on the other hand,intermediate readings should be preferred to strong readings.
The reverse preferences are triggered byopposite entailment patterns.
In the present experiment we compared upward monotone more than nwith downward monotone antecedents fewer than n+2.We paired diagrams like Figure 1(f) vs.
Figure 1(e) with the two sentences in (7) according to a 2(monotonicity) ?
2 (truth) factorial design.
The diagrams of the first type were identical to the strong pic-tures of the last experiment.
With monotone increasing quantifiers they were ambiguous between strongand intermediate interpretations while in the monotone decreasing cases they disambiguated towards astrong interpretation.
The second type of pictures disambiguated towards weak readings in monotoneincreasing quantifiers, but were ambiguous for monotone decreasing quantificational antecedents.
Onthe basis of the first two experiments we expected high acceptance of both picture types with monotoneincreasing quantifiers, but much lower acceptance rates for (7-b) with strong than with ambiguous pic-tures.
We constructed six items and collected three judgments from each participant in each condition.The experiment was run together with Experiment 2 using the same method.
(7) a. MehrMorealsthanvierfourPunktedotssindaremiteinanderwith-one-anotherverbunden.connected.b.
WenigerFeweralsthansechssixPunktedotssindaremiteinanderwith-one-anotherverbunden.connected.Results and DiscussionAs expected, upward monotone antecedents were accepted in both picture types (ambiguous 98.1%;intermediate 92.5%).
A logit mixed effect model analysis revealed no significant difference betweenthe picture types (estimate = 1.53; z = 1.60; p = .11).
This was completely different in sentenceswith monotone decreasing antecedents where strong pictures were only accepted in 13.0% of all trialswhile ambiguous pictures were accepted 92.6% of the time.
This asymmetric distribution provides clearevidence that the predicate be connected to each other induced a bias towards the intermediate reading.Thus, although intended to be neutral we apparently chose a predicate that is far from optimal.ConclusionsWe have presented evidence that the kind of quantificational antecedent influences the amount of ambigu-ity displayed by reciprocal sentences.
For example, in Exp.
1 only all reciprocals were fully ambiguous.Furthermore, comparing tractable reciprocals with antecedents all and all but one to intractable recipro-cals with n and exactly n we found support for the predictions of the PCH.
In reciprocals with all and all83but one strong readings were possible whereas exactly n blocked a strong interpretation.
As for most theresults are somewhat mixed.
In Exp.
1 the strong reading was hardly available, but Exp.
2 showed thatalthough dispreferred it is nevertheless possible.At first sight, our findings provide evidence against the SMH.
Strong interpretations were not thedefault in Exp.
1 and for the monotone increasing quantifiers in Exp.
3 weak interpretations were just asacceptable as the ambiguous pictures.
However, contrary to our initial assumptions be connected doesn?tseem to be neutral but seems to bias towards an intermediate interpretation.
This may have to do withthe transitivity of the relation.
If two dots are only indirectly connected, it seems impossible to say thatthey are not connected, yet possible to say they are not directly connected.
A next step, therefore, willbe to apply the design of Exp.
2 to other predicates like to know someone, a relation that is clearly nottransitive.Another route to pursue is increasing the size of the models.
A particularly strong test for the PCHwould be to increase the model size up to a point where the acceptance rate for the strong reading ofproportional quantifiers drops to the level of wrong pictures and see whether tractable antecedents stillexhibit their strong interpretation.
Exp.
2 was a first step in that direction but the size of the models wasobviously still too small.To conclude, we hope to have shown that relatively innocent looking reciprocal sentences with quan-tificational antecedents are an interesting test case for considerations of tractability in verification.
Moregenerally, within this domain research can be applied to a number of different constructions (for instance,branching quantifiers), so claims about computational complexity can be validated extending the test caseinvestigated in the present study.ReferencesDalrymple, M., M. Kanazawa, Y. Kim, S. McHombo, and S. Peters (1998).
Reciprocal expressions andthe concept of reciprocity.
Linguistics and Philosophy 21(2), 159?210.Garey, M. and D. Johnson (1979).
Computers and Intractability.
San Francisco: W.H.
Freeman and Co.J?ger, F. (2009).
Categorical data analysis: away from anovas (transformation or not) and towards logitmixed models.
Journal of Memory and Language 59(4), 434?446.Kerem, N., N. Friedmann, and Y.
Winter (2010).
Typicality effects and the logic of reciprocity.
InProceedings of SALT XIX.Marr, D. (1982).
Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and Processingof Visual Information.
New York: Freeman.Szymanik, J.
(2010).
Computational complexity of polyadic lifts of generalized quantifiers in naturallanguage.
Linguistics and Philosophy.
DOI: 10.1007/s10988-010-9076-z.van Rooij, I.
(2008).
The tractable cognition hypothesis.
Cognitive Science 32, 939?984.84
