Proceedings of the Workshop on Automatic Summarization for Different Genres, Media, and Languages, pages 1?7,Portland, Oregon, June 23, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsPlans Toward Automated Chat SummarizationDavid C. UthusNRC/NRL Postdoctoral FellowWashington, DC 20375david.uthus.ctr@nrl.navy.milDavid W. AhaNaval Research Laboratory (Code 5514)Washington, DC 20375david.aha@nrl.navy.milAbstractWe describe the beginning stages of our workon summarizing chat, which is motivated byour observations concerning the informationoverload of US Navy watchstanders.
We de-scribe the challenges of summarizing chat andfocus on two chat-specific types of summa-rizations we are interested in: thread sum-maries and temporal summaries.
We then dis-cuss our plans for addressing these challengesand evaluation issues.1 IntroductionWe are investigating methods to summarize real-time chat room messages to address a problem inthe United States military: information overloadand the need for automated techniques to analyzechat messages (Budlong et al, 2009).
Chat has be-come a popular mode of communications in the mil-itary (Duffy, 2008; Eovito, 2006).
On US Navyships, watchstanders (i.e., personnel who continu-ously monitor and respond to situation updates dur-ing a ship?s operation, Stavridis and Girrier (2007))are responsible for numerous duties including mon-itoring multiple chat rooms.
When a watchstanderreports to duty or returns from an interruption, theyhave to familiarize themselves with the current sit-uation, including what is taking place in the chatrooms.
This is difficult with the multiple chat roomsopened simultaneously and new messages continu-ously arriving.
Similarly, Boiney et al (2008) ob-served that with US Air Force operators, when theyreturned to duty from an interruption, another oper-ator in the same room verbally updates them witha summary of what had recently taken place in thechat rooms and where they can find the important in-formation.
Both of these situations are motivationsfor chat summarization, since watchstanders andoperators could use automatically generated sum-maries to quickly orient themselves with the currentsituation.While our motivation is from a military perspec-tive, chat summarization is also applicable to otherdomains.
For example, chat is used for communica-tion in multinational companies (Handel and Herb-sleb, 2002), open source meetings (Shihab et al,2009; Zhou and Hovy, 2005), and distance learning(Osman and Herring, 2007).
Summarization couldaid people who missed meetings or students whowish to study past material in a summarized format.Even though chat summarization has many poten-tial uses, there has been little research on this topic(Section 3).
One possible reason for this is that chatis a difficult medium to analyze: its characteristicsmake it difficult to apply traditional NLP techniques.It has uncommon features such as frequent use of ab-breviations, acronyms, deletion of subject pronouns,use of emoticons, abbreviation of nicknames, andstripping of vowels from words to reduce number ofkeystrokes (Werry, 1996).
Chat is also characterizedby conversation threads becoming entangled due tomultiple conversations taking place simultaneouslyin multiparticipant chat, i.e., chat composed of threeor more users within the same chat room (Herring,1999; Herring, 2010).
The interwoven threads thenmake it more difficult to comprehend individual con-versations.The rest of this paper describes our challenges1ThreadSummarizerThreadSummary<TheKirk> Scotty...I need more power!<Rplee> Bish0p, how much time?<SoLo> Where did you dig up that old fossil?<SkyWlkr> Ben is a great man.<Bish0p> Plenty, 26 minutes!<SoLo> Yeah, great at getting us into trouble.<Rplee> We?re not leaving!<Bish0p> We?re not?<Scott> I?m giving her all she?s got captain!TemporalSummarizerTemporalSummaryFigure 1: Process for generating thread and temporal summaries from a chat log.in chat summarization.
We define two chat-relatedtypes of summarizations we are investigating (Sec-tion 2) and describe related work (Section 3).
Fur-thermore, we give an overview of our planned ap-proach to these challenges (Section 4) and also ad-dress relevant evaluation issues (Section 5).2 Our Summarization ChallengeOur research goal is to summarize chat in real-time.Summaries need to be updated with every new chatmessage that arrives, which can be difficult in high-tempo situations.
For these summarizations, weseek an abstract, compact format, allowing watch-standers to quickly situate themselves with the cur-rent situation.We are investigating two types of summarization:thread summaries and temporal summaries.
Theseallow a user to actively decide how much summa-rization they need.
This can be useful when a userneeds a summary of a long, important conversation,or when they need a summary of what has takenplace since they stopped monitoring a chat room.2.1 Thread SummarizationThe first type of summarization we are investigatingis a thread summary.
This level of summarizationtargets individual conversation threads.
An exam-ple of this is shown in Figure 1, where a summarywould be generated of the messages highlighted ingreen, which all belong to the same conversation.An example output summary may then be:SoLo and SkyWlkr are talking aboutBen.
SkyWlkr thinks he?s great, SoLothinks he causes trouble.As shown, this will allow for a summarization tofocus solely on messages within a conversation be-tween users.
A good summary for thread summa-rization will answer three questions: who is con-versing, what they are conversing about, and what isthe result of their conversation.
With our example,the summary answers all three questions: it identi-fies the two speakers SoLo and SkyWlkr, it identifiesthat they are talking about Ben, and that the result isSkyWlkr thinks Ben is great while SoLo thinks Bencauses trouble.The key challenge to thread summarization willbe finding, extracting, and summarizing the individ-ual conversation threads.
This requires the abilityto detect and extract threads, which has become ofgreat interest in recent research (Duchon and Jack-son, 2010; Elsner and Charniak, 2010; Elsner andSchudy, 2009; Ramachandran et al, 2010; Wangand Oard, 2009).
Thread disentanglement and sum-marization will have to be done online, with conver-sation threads being updated every time a new mes-sage appears.
Another challenge will be processingincomplete conversations, since some messages maybe incorrectly classified into the wrong conversationthreads.
These issues will need to be addressed asthis research progresses.2.2 Temporal SummarizationThe other form of summarization we seek is a tem-poral summary.
We want to allow users to dynami-cally specify the temporal interval of summarizationneeded.
In addition, a user will be able to specifythe level of detail of the summary, which will be ex-plained further later in this section.
An example ofa user selecting a temporal summary can be seen in2Figure 1.
A summary will be generated of only thetext that the user selected, which is shaded in blue.An example output summary may then be:Rplee and Bish0p disagree if there isenough time to stay.
SoLo and SkyWlkrare talking about Ben.A good summary for this task will answer thefollowing question: what conversations have takenplace within the specified temporal interval.
Insome cases depending on the user?s preference, notall conversations will be included in the summary.When not all conversations are included, then a goodsummary will consist of the most important conver-sations and exclude those which are deemed less im-portant.
The amount of detail to be presented foreach individual conversation will be determined bythe temporal interval and the level of detail requestedby the user, which is discussed later in this section.The summaries will need to be generated after auser selects the temporal interval.
To aid in this, weenvision that the summarizer will leverage the threadsummaries.
Conversations threads, along with theirabstracts, will be stored in memory, and these willbe updated every time a new message is received.The temporal summarizer can then use the threadsummaries to generate the temporal summaries.A user will also be able to specify the level ofdetail in the summary in addition to the temporalinterval.
When generating a temporal summary, ahigher level of detail will result in a longer summary,with the highest level of detail resulting in a sum-mary consisting of all the thread summaries withinthe temporal interval.
In the case of a lower level ofdetail, the summarizer will have to determine whichthreads are important to include, and further abstractthem to create a smaller summary.
The benefit of al-lowing the user to specify the level of detail is so thatthey can determine how much detail they need basedon personal requirements.
For example, if someoneonly has a short amount of time to read a summary,then they can specify a low level of detail to quicklyunderstand the important points discussed within thetemporal interval they want covered.Temporal summaries present additional chal-lenges to address.
The primary one is determiningwhich conversation threads to include in the sum-mary, which require a ranking metric.
Additionally,there is an issue of whether to include a conversationthread if all messages do not all fall within the tem-poral interval.
For example, if there is a long conver-sation composed of many messages, and only onemessage falls within the temporal interval, should itthen be included or discarded?
These issues will alsoneed to be addressed as this research progresses.2.3 Chat CorporaAn additional challenge of this work is finding asuitable chat corpus that can be used for testing andevaluating summarization applications.
Most chatcorpora do not have any summaries associated withthem to use for a gold standard, making evaluationsdifficult.
This evaluation difficulty is described fur-ther in Section 5.Currently, we are aware of two publicly availablechat logs with associated summaries.
One of these isthe GNUe Traffic archive1, which contains human-created summaries in the form of a newsletter basedprimarily on Internet Relay Chat (IRC) logs.
Work-ing with these chat logs requires abstractive (i.e.,summaries consisting of system-generated text) andextractive (i.e., summaries consisting of text copiedfrom source material) applications (Lin, 2009), asthe summaries are composed of both human narra-tion and quotes from the chat logs.The other corpus is composed of chat logs andsummaries of a group of users roleplaying a fantasygame over IRC.2 The summaries are of an abstrac-tive form.
Creating summaries for these logs is moredifficult since the summaries take on different styles.Some summarize the events of each character (e.g.,their actions during a battle), while others are moreelaborate in describing the chat events using a strongfantasy style.3 Related WorkSummarization has been applied to many differentmedia (Lin, 2009; Spa?rck Jones, 2007), but onlyZhou and Hovy (2005) have worked on summariz-ing chat.
They investigated summarizing chat logs inorder to create summaries comparable to the human-made GNUe Traffic digests, which were describedin Section 2.3.
Their approach clustered partial mes-1http://kt.earth.li/GNUe/index.html2http://www.bluearch.net/night/history.html3sages under identified topics, then created a collec-tion of summaries, with one summary for each topic.In their work, they were using an extractive formof summarization.
For evaluation, they rewrote theGNUe Traffic digests to partition the summaries intosummaries for each topic, making it easier to com-pare with their system-produced summaries.
Theirapproach performed well, outperforming a baselineapproach and achieving an F-score of 0.52.There has also been work on summarization ofmedia which share some similarities to chat.
Forexample, Zechner (2002) examined summarizationof multiparty dialogues and Murray et al (2005) ex-amined summarization of meeting recordings.
Bothof these media share in common with chat the dif-ficulty of summarizing conversations with multipleparticipants.
A difference with chat is that both ofthese publications focused on one conversation se-quentially while chat is characterized by multiple,unrelated conversations taking place simultaneously.Newman and Blitzer (2003) described the beginningstages of their work on summarizing archived dis-cussions of newsgroups and mailing lists.
This hassome similarity with conversations, but a differenceis that newsgroups and mailing lists have metadatato help differentiate the threaded conversations.
Ad-ditional differences between chat and these othermedia can be seen in the unusual features not foundin other forms of written texts, as described earlierin Section 1.4 Planned ApproachWe envision taking a three step approach to achieveour goals for this research.
We will abstract this to anon-military domain, so that it is more accessible tothe research community.4.1 FoundationThe first step is to focus on improving techniques forsummarizing chat logs in general to create a founda-tion for future extensions.
With the only approachso far having been by Zhou and Hovy (2005), it isunknown whether this is the best path for chat sum-marization, nor is it known how well it would workfor real-time chat.
Also, since its publication, newtechniques for analyzing multiparticipant chat havebeen introduced, particularly in thread disentangle-ment, which could improve chat summarization.We hypothesize that constructing an approach thatincorporates new techniques and ideas, while ad-dressing lessons learned by Zhou and Hovy (2005),can result in a more robust chat summarizer that cangenerate summaries online.
A part of this processwill include examining other techniques for summa-rization, drawing on ideas from related work dis-cussed in Section 3, such as leveraging latent se-mantic analysis (Murray et al, 2005).
Furthermore,we will incorporate past work on dialogue act tag-ging in chat (Wu et al, 2005) to both improve sum-marization and create a framework for the next twosteps.
However, there is one limitation with theirwork: the templates used for tagging were manuallycreated, which is both time-intensive and fragile.
Toovercome this, we plan to use an unsupervised learn-ing approach to discover dialogue acts (Ritter et al,2010).4.2 Thread ExtensionThe second step will be to extend summarizationto thread summaries.
This will require leveragingthread disentanglement techniques, with the possi-bility of using multiple techniques to improve the ca-pability of finding whole conversation threads.
Forthe summary generations, we will first create extrac-tive summaries before extending the summarizer togenerate abstractive summaries.
In addition, we willaddress the problem of incomplete conversations forthe cases when not all messages can be extractedcorrectly, or when not all the messages of a conver-sation are available due to joining a chat room in themiddle of a conversation.Another task will be the creation of a suitable cor-pus for this work.
As discussed in Section 2.3, thereare only two known corpora with associated sum-maries.
Neither of these corpora are well suitedfor thread summarization since the summaries arenot targeted towards answering specific questions(see Section 2.1), making evaluations difficult.
Weplan on creating a corpus by extending an exist-ing thread disentanglement corpus (Elsner and Char-niak, 2010).
This corpus consists of technical chaton IRC related to Linux, and has been annotated byhumans for conversation threads.
We will expandthis corpus to include both extractive and abstractivesummaries for each of the threads.
The advantage4of using this corpus, beyond the annotations, is thatit is topic-focused, which is a closer match of whatone would expect to see in the military domain com-pared to social chat.4.3 Temporal ExtensionThe third and final step will be to extend summa-rization to temporal summaries.
The key point ofthis will be to extend the summarization capabilityso that a user can specify the level of detail withinthe summary, which will then determine the lengthof the summary and how much to include from thethread summaries.
This will then involve creating aranking metric for the different conversations.
Un-like the thread extension, no additional abstractionwill be needed.
Instead, the temporal extensionwill reuse the thread summaries, and reduce theirlength by ranking the sentences within the individ-ual summaries as done with traditional text summa-rization.
Additionally, the problem of conversationthreads containing messages both inside and outsidethe temporal interval will need to be addressed.As with the thread extension, a corpora will needto be created for this work.
We expect that this willbuild on the corpora used for the thread extension.This will then require additional summaries to becreated for different levels of temporal intervals anddetail.
To make this task feasible, we will restrict thenumber of possible temporal intervals and levels ofdetail to only a few options.5 Evaluation IssuesA major issue in summarization is evaluation(Spa?rck Jones, 2007), which is also a concern forthis work.
One problem for evaluation is the lack ofsuitable gold standards, as described in Section 2.3.Another problem is that we plan on working withabstractive forms in the future.For the foundation step, we can follow the sameprocedures as Zhou and Hovy (2005), which wouldallow us to compare our results with theirs.
Thiswould restrict the work to only an extractive formfor comparisons, though it is possible to extend toabstract comparisons due to the gold standards beingcomposed of both extractive and abstractive means.Evaluation for the thread and temporal extensionswill require additional work due to both the lackof suitable gold standards and our need for abstrac-tive summaries instead of extractive summaries.
Theevaluations will include both intrinsic (i.e., how wellthe summarizer is able to meet its objectives) andextrinsic evaluations (i.e., how well the summariesallow the user to perform their task, Spa?rck Jones(2007)).
For the intrinsic evaluations, we will useboth automated techniques (e.g., ROUGE3) and hu-man assessors for evaluating both the thread andtemporal summarizations.
Some concerns for evalu-ation is that with the thread summaries, evaluationwill be impacted by how accurately conversationthreads can be extracted.
With the temporal sum-maries, the temporal intervals and the level of detaildetermines the length and detail of the summary.For the extrinsic evaluations, this research willbe evaluated as part of a larger project, which willinclude human subject studies.
Subjects will besituated in a simulated watchstander environment,must monitor three computer monitors simultane-ously (one of which will contain live chat) whilealso listening to radio communications.
Testing ofour chat summarization methods will be done in col-laboration with testing on 3D audio cueing to inves-tigate and evaluate whether these technologies canhelp watchstanders combat information overload.6 ConclusionWe have presented the challenges we face in chatsummarization.
Our goal for this research is that itwill result in a robust chat summarizer which is ableto generate abstract summaries in real-time.
This isa difficult, exciting domain, with many possible ap-plications.
We have shown that the difficulties aredue to the chat medium itself, lack of suitable data,and difficulties of evaluation.AcknowledgementsThanks to NRL for funding this research and to thereviewers for their valuable feedback.
David Uthusperformed this work while an NRC postdoctoral fel-low located at the Naval Research Laboratory.
Theviews and opinions contained in this paper are thoseof the authors and should not be interpreted as rep-resenting the official views or policies, either ex-pressed or implied, of NRL or the DoD.3http://berouge.com/default.aspx5ReferencesLindsley G. Boiney, Bradley Goodman, Robert Gaimari,Jeffrey Zarrella, Christopher Berube, and Janet Hitze-man.
2008.
Taming multiple chat room collaboration:Real-time visual cues to social networks and emerg-ing threads.
In Proceedings of the Fifth InternationalISCRAM Conference, pages 660?668.
ISCRAM.Emily R. Budlong, Sharon M. Walter, and Ozgur Yil-mazel.
2009.
Recognizing connotative meaning inmilitary chat communications.
In Proceedings of Evo-lutionary and Bio-Inspired Computation: Theory andApplications III.
SPIE.Andrew Duchon and Cullen Jackson.
2010.
Chat anal-ysis for after action review.
In Proceedings of the In-terservice/Industry Training, Simulation & EducationConference.
I/ITSEC.LorRaine T. Duffy.
2008.
DoD collaboration and chatsystems: Current status and way ahead.
In Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on SemanticComputing, pages 573?576.
IEEE Computer Society.Micha Elsner and Eugene Charniak.
2010.
Disentan-gling chat.
Computational Linguistics, 36(3):389?409.Micha Elsner and Warren Schudy.
2009.
Bounding andcomparing methods for correlation clustering beyondILP.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Integer Lin-ear Programming for Natural Language Processing,pages 19?27.
ACL.Bryan A. Eovito.
2006.
The impact of synchronous text-based chat on military command and control.
In Pro-ceedings of the Command and Control Research andTechnology Symposium.
CCRP.Mark Handel and James D. Herbsleb.
2002.
What is chatdoing in the workplace?
In Proceedings of the 2002ACM Conference on Computer Supported CooperativeWork, pages 1?10.
ACM.Susan C. Herring.
1999.
Interactional coherence inCMC.
In Proceedings of the Thirty-Second AnnualHawaii International Conference on System Sciences.IEEE Computer Society.Susan C. Herring.
2010.
Computer-mediated conversa-tion: Introduction and overview.
Language@Internet,7.
Article 2.Jimmy Lin.
2009.
Summarization.
In M. Tamer O?zsuand Ling Liu, editors, Encyclopedia of Database Sys-tems.
Springer.Gabriel Murray, Steve Renals, Jean Carletta, and JohannaMoore.
2005.
Evaluating automatic summaries ofmeeting recordings.
In Proceedings of the ACL Work-shop on Intrinsic and Extrinsic Evaluation Measuresfor Machine Translation and/or Summarization, pages33?40.
ACL.Paula S. Newman and John C. Blitzer.
2003.
Summariz-ing archived discussions: A beginning.
In Proceedingsof the 8th International Conference on Intelligent UserInterfaces, pages 273?276.
ACM.Gihan Osman and Susan C. Herring.
2007.
Interaction,facilitation, and deep learning in cross-cultural chat:A case study.
The Internet and Higher Education,10(2):125?141.Sowmya Ramachandran, Randy Jensen, Oscar Bascara,Todd Denning, and Shaun Sucillon.
2010.
Automatedchat thread analysis: Untangling the web.
In Proceed-ings of the Interservice/Industry Training, Simulation& Education Conference.
I/ITSEC.Alan Ritter, Colin Cherry, and Bill Dolan.
2010.
Unsu-pervised modeling of Twitter conversations.
In Pro-ceedings of Human Language Technologies: The 11thAnnual Conference of the North American Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pages172?180.
ACL.Emad Shihab, Zhen Ming Jiang, and Ahmed E. Hassan.2009.
Studying the use of developer IRC meetingsin open source projects.
In Proceedings of the IEEEInternational Conference on Software Maintenance,pages 147?156.
IEEE Computer Society.Karen Spa?rck Jones.
2007.
Automatic summarising: Thestate of the art.
Information Processing & Manage-ment, 43(6):1449?1481.James Stavridis and Robert Girrier.
2007.
Watch Offi-cer?s Guide: A Handbook for All Deck Watch Officers.Naval Institute Press, fifteenth edition.Lidan Wang and Douglas W. Oard.
2009.
Context-based message expansion for disentanglement of inter-leaved text conversations.
In Proceedings of HumanLanguage Technologies: The 2009 Annual Conferenceof the North American Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 200?208.
ACL.Christopher C. Werry.
1996.
Linguistic and interactionalfeatures of Internet Relay Chat.
In Susan C. Herring,editor, Computer-Mediated Communication: Linguis-tic, Social and Cross-Cultural Perspectives, pages 47?64.
John Benjamins.Tianhao Wu, Faisal M. Khan, Todd A. Fisher, Lori A.Shuler, and William M. Pottenger.
2005.
Posting acttagging using transformation-based learning.
In TsauYoung Lin, Setsuo Ohsuga, Churn-Jung Liau, Xiao-hua Hu, and Shusaku Tsumoto, editors, Foundationsof Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, volume 6of Studies in Computational Intelligence, pages 321?331.
Springer Berlin / Heidelberg.Klaus Zechner.
2002.
Automatic summarization ofopen-domain multiparty dialogues in diverse genres.Computational Linguistics, 28(4):447?485.6Liang Zhou and Eduard Hovy.
2005.
Digesting virtual?geek?
culture: The summarization of technical In-ternet Relay Chats.
In Proceedings of the 43rd An-nual Meeting on Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 298?305.
ACL.7
