Proceedings of the 5th ACL-HLT Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 96?104,Portland, OR, USA, 24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsTopic Modeling on Historical NewspapersTze-I YangDept.
of Comp.
Sci.
& Eng.University of North Texastze-iyang@my.unt.eduAndrew J. TorgetDept.
of HistoryUniversity of North Texasandrew.torget@unt.eduRada MihalceaDept.
of Comp.
Sci.
& Eng.University of North Texasrada@cs.unt.eduAbstractIn this paper, we explore the task of automatictext processing applied to collections of his-torical newspapers, with the aim of assistinghistorical research.
In particular, in this firststage of our project, we experiment with theuse of topical models as a means to identifypotential issues of interest for historians.1 Newspapers in Historical ResearchSurviving newspapers are among the richest sourcesof information available to scholars studying peo-ples and cultures of the past 250 years, particularlyfor research on the history of the United States.Throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries,newspapers served as the central venues for nearlyall substantive discussions and debates in Americansociety.
By the mid-nineteenth century, nearly everycommunity (no matter how small) boasted at leastone newspaper.
Within these pages, Americans ar-gued with one another over politics, advertised andconducted economic business, and published arti-cles and commentary on virtually all aspects of so-ciety and daily life.
Only here can scholars find edi-torials from the 1870s on the latest political contro-versies, advertisements for the latest fashions, arti-cles on the latest sporting events, and languid poetryfrom a local artist, all within one source.
Newspa-pers, in short, document more completely the fullrange of the human experience than nearly any othersource available to modern scholars, providing win-dows into the past available nowhere else.Despite their remarkable value, newspapers havelong remained among the most underutilized histor-ical resources.
The reason for this paradox is quitesimple: the sheer volume and breadth of informa-tion available in historical newspapers has, ironi-cally, made it extremely difficult for historians togo through them page-by-page for a given researchproject.
A historian, for example, might need towade through tens of thousands of newspaper pagesin order to answer a single research question (withno guarantee of stumbling onto the necessary infor-mation).Recently, both the research potential and prob-lem of scale associated with historical newspapershas expanded greatly due to the rapid digitization ofthese sources.
The National Endowment for the Hu-manities (NEH) and the Library of Congress (LOC),for example, are sponsoring a nationwide historicaldigitization project, Chronicling America, geared to-ward digitizing all surviving historical newspapersin the United States, from 1836 to the present.
Thisproject recently digitized its one millionth page (andthey project to have more than 20 million pageswithin a few years), opening a vast wealth of his-torical newspapers in digital form.While projects such as Chronicling America haveindeed increased access to these important sources,they have also increased the problem of scale thathave long prevent scholars from using these sourcesin meaningful ways.
Indeed, without tools andmethods capable of handling such large datasets ?and thus sifting out meaningful patterns embeddedwithin them ?
scholars find themselves confined toperforming only basic word searches across enor-mous collections.
These simple searches can, in-deed, find stray information scattered in unlikely96places.
Such rudimentary search tools, however,become increasingly less useful to researchers asdatasets continue to grow in size.
If a search for aparticular term yields 4,000,000 results, even thosesearch results produce a dataset far too large for anysingle scholar to analyze in a meaningful way us-ing traditional methods.
The age of abundance, itturns out, can simply overwhelm historical scholars,as the sheer volume of available digitized historicalnewspapers is beginning to do.In this paper, we explore the use of topic mod-eling, in an attempt to identify the most importantand potentially interesting topics over a given pe-riod of time.
Thus, instead of asking a historianto look through thousands of newspapers to identifywhat may be interesting topics, we take a reverseapproach, where we first automatically cluster thedata into topics, and then provide these automati-cally identified topics to the historian so she can nar-row her scope to focus on the individual patterns inthe dataset that are most applicable to her research.Of more utility would be where the modeling wouldreveal unexpected topics that point towards unusualpatterns previously unknown, thus help shaping ascholar?s subsequent research.The topic modeling can be done for any periodsof time, which can consist of individual years or cancover several years at a time.
In this way, we cansee the changes in the discussions and topics of in-terest over the years.
Moreover, pre-filters can alsobe applied to the data prior to the topic modeling.For instance, since research being done in the His-tory department at our institution is concerned withthe ?U.
S. cotton economy,?
we can use the same ap-proach to identify the interesting topics mentioned inthe news articles that talk about the issue of ?cotton.
?2 Topic ModelingTopic models have been used byNewman and Block (2006) and Nelson (2010)1on newspaper corpora to discover topics and trendsover time.
The former used the probabilistic latentsemantic analysis (pLSA) model, and the latterused the latent Dirichlet alocation (LDA) model, amethod introduced by Blei et al (2003).
LDA hasalso been used by Griffiths and Steyvers (2004) to1http://americanpast.richmond.edu/dispatch/find research topic trends by looking at abstracts ofscientific papers.
Hall et al (2008) have similarlyapplied LDA to discover trends in the computationallinguistics field.
Both pLSA and LDA models areprobabilistic models that look at each document asa mixture of multinomials or topics.
The modelsdecompose the document collection into groups ofwords representing the main topics.
See for instanceTable 1, which shows two topics extracted from ourcollection.Topicworth price black white goods yard silk made ladieswool lot inch week sale prices pair suits fine qualitystate states bill united people men general law gov-ernment party made president today washington warcommittee country public yorkTable 1: Example of two topic groupsBoyd-Graber et al (2009) compared several topicmodels, including LDA, correlated topic model(CTM), and probabilistic latent semantic indexing(pLSI), and found that LDA generally worked com-parably well or better than the other two at pre-dicting topics that match topics picked by the hu-man annotators.
We therefore chose to use a par-allel threaded SparseLDA implementation to con-duct the topic modeling, namely UMass Amherst?sMAchine Learning for LanguagE Toolkit (MAL-LET)2 (McCallum, 2002).
MALLET?s topic mod-eling toolkit has been used by Walker et al (2010)to test the effects of noisy optical character recog-nition (OCR) data on LDA.
It has been used byNelson (2010) to mine topics from the Civil Warera newspaper Dispatch, and it has also been usedby Blevins (2010) to examine general topics and toidentify emotional moments from Martha BallardsDiary.33 DatasetOur sample data comes from a collection of digi-tized historical newspapers, consisting of newspa-pers published in Texas from 1829 to 2008.
Issuesare segmented by pages with continuous text con-taining articles and advertisements.
Table 2 providesmore information about the dataset.2http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/3http://historying.org/2010/04/01/97PropertyNumber of titles 114Number of years 180Number of issues 32,745Number of pages 232,567Number of tokens 816,190,453Table 2: Properties of the newspaper collection3.1 Sample Years and CategoriesFrom the wide range available, we sampled sev-eral historically significant dates in order to evaluatetopic modeling.
These dates were chosen for theirunique characteristics (detailed below), which madeit possible for a professional historian to examineand evaluate the relevancy of the results.These are the subcategories we chose as samples:?
Newspapers from 1865-1901: During this pe-riod, Texans rebuilt their society in the after-math of the American Civil War.
With the abo-lition of slavery in 1865, Texans (both blackand white) looked to rebuild their post-wareconomy by investing heavily in cotton pro-duction throughout the state.
Cotton was con-sidered a safe investment, and so Texans pro-duced enough during this period to make Texasthe largest cotton producer in the United Statesby 1901.
Yet overproduction during that sameperiod impoverished Texas farmers by drivingdown the market price for cotton, and thus alarge percentage went bankrupt and lost theirlands (over 50 percent by 1900).
As a re-sult, angry cotton farmers in Texas during the1890s joined a new political party, the Pop-ulists, whose goal was to use the national gov-ernment to improve the economic conditions offarmers.
This effort failed by 1896, although itrepresented one of the largest third-party polit-ical revolts in American history.This period, then, was dominated by the riseof cotton as the foundation of the Texas econ-omy, the financial failures of Texas farmers,and their unsuccessful political protests of the1890s as cotton bankrupted people across thestate.
These are the issues we would expect toemerge as important topics from newspapers inthis category.
This dataset consists of 52,555pages over 5,902 issues.?
Newspapers from 1892: This was the year ofthe formation of the Populist Party, which alarge portion of Texas farmers joined for theU.
S. presidential election of 1892.
The Pop-ulists sought to have the U. S. federal gov-ernment become actively involved in regulat-ing the economy in places like Texas (some-thing never done before) in order to preventcotton farmers from going further into debt.
Inthe 1892 election, the Populists did surprisinglywell (garnering about 10 percent of the vote na-tionally) and won a full 23 percent of the votein Texas.
This dataset consists of 1,303 pagesover 223 issues.?
Newspapers from 1893: A major economicdepression hit the United States in 1893, dev-astating the economy in every state, includingTexas.
This exacerbated the problem of cottonwithin the states economy, and heightened theefforts of the Populists within Texas to push formajor political reforms to address these prob-lems.
What we see in 1893, then, is a great dealof stress that should exacerbate trends withinTexas society of that year (and thus the con-tent of the newspapers).
This dataset consistsof 3,490 pages over 494 issues.?
Newspapers from 1929-1930: These yearsrepresented the beginning and initial onset inthe United States of the Great Depression.
TheUnited States economy began collapsing in Oc-tober 1929, when the stock market crashed andbegan a series of economic failures that soonbrought down nearly the entire U. S. econ-omy.
Texas, with its already shaky economicdependence on cotton, was as devastated as anyother state.
As such, this period was markedby discussions about how to save both the cot-ton economy of Texas and about possible gov-ernment intervention into the economy to pre-vent catastrophe.
This dataset consists of 6,590pages over 973 issues.Throughout this era, scholars have long recog-nized that cotton and the economy were the domi-nating issues.
Related to that was the rise and fall98loaddocumentsspellingcorrectionnamedentitytaggerstemmertopicmodelingtopicmodelingtopicmodelingFigure 1: Work flowof the Populist Party during the 1890s, as farmerssought to use the political system as a means ofdealing with their economic problems.
As such, wewould expect to see these concerns as major (per-haps dominating) topics in the newspapers from thetime.3.1.1 ?Cotton?
dataWithin the date ranges listed above, we also se-lect all mentions of the topic ?cotton?
?
as pertain-ing to possible discussion relevant to the ?U.
S. cot-ton economy.?
Cotton was the dominating economicforce in Texas throughout this period, and historianshave long recognized that issues related to the cropwielded tremendous influence on the political, so-cial, and economic development of the state duringthis era.
Problems related to cotton, for example,bankrupted half of all Texas farmers between 1865and 1900, and those financial challenges pushedfarmers to create a major new political party duringthe 1890s.3.2 Data ProcessingBefore applying topic modeling on our data, somepre-processing steps were applied.
Some challengesin processing the dataset come from errors intro-duced by the OCR processing, missing punctua-tions, and unclear separation between different ar-ticles on the same page.
Multi-stage pre-processingof the dataset was performed to reduce these errors,as illustrated in Figure 1.The first phase to reduce errors starts with spellingcorrection, which replaces words using the As-pell dictionary and de-hyphenates words split acrosslines.
Suggested replacements are used if they arewithin the length normalized edit distance of theoriginals.
An extra dictionary list of location namesis used with Aspell.Next, the spelling corrected dataset is run throughthe Stanford Named Entity Recognizer (NER).4Stanford NER system first detects sentences in thedata then labels four classes of named entities: PER-SON, ORGANIZATION, LOCATION, and MIS-CELLANEOUS (Finkel et al, 2005).
The modelused in conjunction with the tagger is provided bythe software and was trained on the CoNLL 2003training data using distributional similarity features.The output is then massaged so that entities withmultiple words would stay together in the topic mod-eling phase.Property # of Unique # of TotalLOC entities 1,508,432 8,620,856ORG entities 6,497,111 14,263,391PER entities 2,846,906 12,260,535MISC entities 1,182,845 3,594,916Named entities 12,035,294 38,739,698Table 3: Properties of the newspaper collection afternamed entity recognitionLastly, the words that are not tagged as namedentities pass through an English stemmer while thenamed entities stay unchanged.
We are using theSnowball stemmer.5At the end of each of the pre-processing stage, weextract subsets from the data corresponding to thesample years mentioned earlier (1865-1901, 1892,1893, and 1929-1930), which are then used for fur-ther processing in the topic modeling phase.We made cursory comparisons of the outputsof the topic modeling at each of the three stages(spelling correction, NER, stemming).
Table 4shows sample topic groups generated at the threestages.
We found that skipping the named entitytagging and stemming phases still gives compara-ble results.
While the named entity tags may give usadditional information (?dallas?
and ?texas?
are lo-cations), tagging the entire corpus takes up a largeslice of processing time.
Stemming after tagging4http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/5http://snowball.tartarus.org99Topic: spellworth fort city texas county gazette tex special statecompany dallas time made yesterday night businessline railroad louisTopic: spell + NERcity county texas location company yesterday nighttime today worth made state morning fort specialbusiness court tex dallas location meetingTopic: spell + NER + stemmerstate counti citi texas location year ani time madeworth fort peopl good line special tex land busi workcompaniTable 4: Comparison of the three topic output stages:Each entry contains the top terms for a single topicmay collapse multiple versions of a word together,but we found that the stemmed words are very hardto understand such as the case of ?business?
becom-ing ?busi?.
In future work, we may explore usinga less aggressive stemmer that only collapses plu-rals, but so far the first stage output seems to givefairly good terms already.
Thus, the rest of the pa-per will discuss using the results of topic modelingat the spelling correction stage.4 Historical Topics and TrendsWe are interested in automatically discovering gen-eral topics that appear in a large newspaper corpus.MALLET is run on each period of interest to findthe top one general topic groups.
We use 1000 it-erations with stopword removal.
An extra stopwordlist was essential to remove stopwords with errorsintroduced by the OCR process.
Additionally, werun MALLET on the 1865-1901 dataset to find thetop ten topic groups using 250 iterations.In addition, we also find the topics more stronglyassociated with ?cotton.?
The ?cotton?
examples arefound by extracting each line that contains an in-stance of ?cotton?
along with a window of five lineson either side.
MALLET is then run on these ?cot-ton?
examples to find the top general topic groupsover 1000 iterations with stopword removal.5 Evaluation and DiscussionThe topic modeling output was evaluated by a histo-rian (the second author of this paper), who special-izes in the U.S.-Mexican borderlands in Texas andis an expert in the historical chronology, events, andlanguage patterns of our newspaper collection.
Theevaluator looked at the output, and determined foreach topic if it was relevant to the period of time un-der consideration.The opinion from our expert is that the topic mod-eling yielded highly useful results.
Throughout thegeneral topics identified for our samples, there is aconsistent theme that a historian would expect fromthese newspapers: a heavy emphasis on the eco-nomics of cotton.
For example, we often see wordslike ?good,?
?middling,?
and ?ordinary,?
which wereterms for evaluating the quality of a cotton crop be-fore it went to market.
Other common terms, such as?crop,?
?bale,?
?market,?
and ?closed?
(which sug-gests something like ?the price closed at X?)
evokeother topics of discussion of aspects of the buyingand selling of cotton crops.Throughout the topics, market-oriented languageis the overwhelming and dominate theme through-out, which is exactly what our expert expected as ahistorian of this region and era.
You can see, for ex-ample, that much of the cotton economy was gearedtoward supplies the industrial mills in England.
Theword ?Liverpool,?
the name of the main English portto where Texas cotton was shipped, appears quitefrequently throughout the samples.
As such, theseresults suggest a high degree of accuracy in identi-fying dominate and important themes in the corpus.Within the subsets of these topics, we find morefine-grained patterns that support this trend, whichlend more credence to the results.Table 5 summarizes the results for each ofthe three analyzes, with accuracy calculated asfollows: Accuracy(topics) = # of relevant topicstotal # of topicsAccuracy(terms) = # of relevant terms in all topicstotal # of terms in all topics .
Ta-bles 6, 7 and 8 show the actual analyzes.5.1 Interesting FindingOur historian expert found the topic containing?houston april general hero san?
for the 1865-1901general results particularly interesting and hypoth-esized that they may be referring to the Battle ofSan Jacinto.
The Battle of San Jacinto was the fi-nal fight in the Texas Revolution of 1836, as Texassought to free themselves from Mexican rule.
OnApril 21, 1836, General Sam Houston led about 900100Topics Explanationblack* price* worth* white* goods* yard* silk*made* lot* week ladies wool* inch* ladles* sale*prices* pair* suits* fine*Reflects discussion of the market and sales of goods, withsome words that relate to cotton and others that reflectother goods being sold alongside cotton (such as wool).state* people* states* bill* law* made united* party*men* country* government* county* public* presi-dent* money* committee* general* great question*Political language associated with the political debatesthat dominated much of newspaper content during thisera.
The association of the topic ?money?
is particularlytelling, as economic and fiscal policy were particularlyimportant discussion during the era.clio worth mid city alie fort lino law lour lug thou hutfur court dally county anil tort ironNoise and words with no clear association with one an-other.tin inn mid tint mill* till oil* ills hit hint lull win hutilia til ion lot lii foiMostly noise, with a few words associated with cottonmilling and cotton seed.texas* street* address* good wanted houston* office*work city* sale main* house* apply man county* av-enue* room* rooms* land*These topics appear to reflect geography.
The inclusionof Houston may either reflect the city?s importance as acotton market or (more likely) the large number of news-papers from the collection that came from Houston.worth* city* fort* texas* county* gazette tex* com-pany* dallas* miss special yesterday night time johnstate made today louis*These topics appear to reflect geography in north Texas,likely in relation to Fort Worth and Dallas (which appearas topics) and probably as a reflection that a large portionof the corpus of the collection came from the Dallas/Ft.Worth area.houston* texas* today city* company post* hero*general* night morning york men* john held war*april* left san* meetingThese topics appear to an unlikely subject identified bythe modeling.
The words Houston, hero, general,april and san (perhaps part of San Jacinto) all fittogether for a historian to suggest a sustained discussionin the newspapers of the April 1836 Battle of San Jac-into, when General Sam Houston defeated Santa Anna ofMexico in the Texas Revolution.
This is entirely unex-pected, but the topics appear to fit together closely.
Thatthis would rank so highly within all topics is, too, a sur-prise.
(Most historians, for example, have argued that fewTexans spent much time memorializing such events untilafter 1901.
This would be quite a discovery if they weretalking about it in such detail before 1901.
)man time great good men years life world long madepeople make young water woman back found womenworkNot sure what the connections are here, although the top-ics clearly all fit together in discussion of the lives ofwomen and men.market* cotton* york* good* steady* closed* prices*corn* texas* wheat* fair* stock* choice* year*lower* receipts* ton* crop* higher*All these topics reflect market-driven language related tothe buying and selling cotton and, to a much smaller ex-tent, other crops such as corn.tube tie alie time thaw art ton ion aid ant ore end hatire aad lour thee con tilNoise with no clear connections.Table 6: 10 topic groups found for the 1865-1901 main set.
Asterisks denote meaningful topic terms.101Period Topics Explanation1865-1901 texas* city* worth* houston* good*county* fort* state* man* time*made* street* men* work* york todaycompany great peopleThese keywords appear to be related to three things:(1) geography (reflected in both specific places likeHouston and Fort Worth and more general placeslike county, street, and city), (2) discussions ofpeople (men and man) and (3) time (time and today).1892 texas* worth* gazette* city* tex*fort* county* state* good* march*man* special* made* people* time*york men days febAs with the 1865-1901 set, these keywords also appear tobe related to three things: (1) geography, (2) discussionsof people and (3) time.1893 worth* texas* tin* city* tube* clio*time* alie* man* good* fort* work*made street year men county state texAs with the 1865-1901 set, these keywords also appear tobe related to three things: (1) geography, (2) discussionsof people and (3) time.1929-1930 tin* texas* today* county* year*school* good* time* home* city* oil*man* men* made* work* phone nightweek sundayAs with the 1865-1901 set, these keywords also appear tobe related to three things: (1) geography, (2) discussionsof people and (3) time.
The time discussion here appearsto be heightened, and the appearance of economic issuesfor Texas (oil) makes sense in the context of the onsetof the Great Depression in 1929-30.Table 7: Main topics for years of interest for the main setPeriod Topics Explanation1865-1901 cotton* texas* good* crop* bales*county* york* houston* spot mid-dling* year* corn* market* worth*oil* closed* special* ordinary* todayAll market-oriented language that reflects all aspects ofthe cotton market, in particular the evaluation of cottonquality.
The geography of New York (york) and Hous-ton could reflect their importance in the cotton market or(just as important) sources of news and information (withHouston being a central producer of the newspapers inour corpus).1892 cotton* bales* spot gazette* special*march middling* ordinary* steady*closed* futures* lots* good* texas*sales* feb low* ton* oil*Market-oriented language that reflects, in particular, thebuying and selling of cotton on the open market.
Theinclusion of February and March 1892, in the context ofthese other words associated with the selling of cotton,suggest those were important months in the marketing ofthe crop for 1892.1893 cotton* ordinary* texas* worth* beltmiddling* closed* year bales* good*route* crop* city* cents* spot oil*corn* low* return*Market-oriented language focused on the buying and sell-ing of cotton.1929-1930 cotton* texas* county crop* yeargood* today* york* points* oil* mar-ket* farm* made* seed* state* price*tin bales* july*Market-oriented language concerning cotton.
What isinteresting here is the inclusion of words like state,market, and price, which did not show up in the pre-vious sets.
The market-language here is more broadly as-sociated with the macro-economic situation (with explicitreferences to the market and price, which seems toreflect the heightened concern at that time about the fu-ture of the cotton market with the onset of the Great De-pression and what role the state would play in that.Table 8: Main topics for the cotton subset102AccuracyTopic Groups Topics TermsGeneralTen for 1865-1901 60% 45.79% (74.56%)One for 1865-1901 100% 73.68%One for 1892 100% 78.95%One for 1893 100% 63.16%One for 1929-1930 100% 78.95%CottonOne for 1865-1901 100% 89.47%One for 1892 100% 84.21%One for 1893 100% 84.21%One for 1929-1930 100% 84.21%Table 5: Accuracy of topic modeling: In parenthesis isthe term accuracy calculated using relevant topics only.Texans against Mexican general Antonio Lopez deSanta Anna.
Over the course of an eighteen minutebattle, Houston?s forces routed Santa Anna?s army.The victory at San Jacinto secured the independenceof Texas from Mexico and became a day of celebra-tion in Texas during the years that followed.Most historians have argued that Texas paid littleattention to remembering the Battle of San Jacintountil the early twentieth century.
These topic mod-eling results, however, suggest that far more atten-tion was paid to this battle in Texas newspapers thanscholars had previously thought.We extracted all the examples from the corpus forthe years 1865-1901 that contain ten or more of thetop terms in the topic and also contain the word ?jac-into?.
Out of a total of 220 snippets that contain?jacinto?, 125 were directly related to the battle andits memory.
95 were related to other things.
The ma-jority of these snippets came from newspapers pub-lished in Houston, which is located near San Jacinto,with a surge of interest in the remembrance of thebattle around the Aprils of 1897-1899.6 ConclusionsIn this paper, we explored the use of topical modelsapplied on historical newspapers to assist historicalresearch.
We have found that we can automaticallygenerate topics that are generally good, however wefound that once we generated a set of topics, we can-not decide if it is mundane or interesting without anexpert and, for example, would have been obliviousto the significance of the San Jacinto topic.
We agreewith Block (2006) that ?topic simulation is only atool?
and have come to the conclusion that it is es-sential that an expert in the field contextualize thesetopics and evaluate them for relevancy.We also found that although our corpus containsnoise from OCR errors, it may not need expen-sive error correction processing to provide good re-sults when using topic models.
We may explorecombining the named entity tagged data with a lessaggressive stemmer and, additionally, evaluate theusefulness of not discarding the unstemmed wordsbut maintaining their association with their stemmedcounterpart.AcknowledgmentWe would like to thank Jon Christensen andCameron Blevins from Stanford, who have beenworking with us on the larger project, ?MappingHistorical Texts: Combining Text-Mining and Geo-Visualization to Unlock the Research Potential ofHistorical Newspapers?, which subsumes the workwe have presented in this paper.
This work hasbeen partly supported by the NEH under DigitalHumanities Start-Up Grant (HD-51188-10).
Anyviews, findings, conclusions or recommendationsexpressed in this publication do not necessarily rep-resent those of the National Endowment for the Hu-manities.References[Blei et al2003] David M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, andMichael I. Jordan.
2003.
Latent dirichlet alocation.The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 3:993?1022.
[Blevins2010] Cameron Blevins.
2010.
Topic ModelingMartha Ballard?s Diary.
[Block2006] Sharon Block.
2006.
Doing More with Dig-itization: An Introduction to Topic Modeling of EarlyAmerican Sources.
Common-Place, 6(2), January.
[Boyd-Graber et al2009] Jonathan Boyd-Graber, JordanChang, Sean Gerrish, Chong Wang, and David M.Blei.
2009.
Reading tea leaves: How humans interprettopic models.
In Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Con-ference on Neural Information Processing Systems.
[Finkel et al2005] Jenny Rose Finkel, Trond Grenager,and Christopher Manning.
2005.
Incorporating non-local information into information extraction systemsby gibbs sampling.
In Proceedings of the 43nd AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics (ACL 2005), pages 363?370.103[Griffiths and Steyvers2004] Thomas L. Griffiths andMark Steyvers.
2004.
Finding scientific topics.
Pro-ceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of theUnited States of America, 101(Suppl 1):5228.
[Hall et al2008] David Hall, Daniel Jurafsky, andChristopher Manning.
2008.
Studying the History ofIdeas Using Topic Models.
In Proceedings from theEMNLP 2008: Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing, October.
[McCallum2002] Andrew Kachites McCallum.
2002.MALLET: A Machine Learning for Language Toolkit.
[Nelson2010] Robert K. Nelson.
2010.
Mining the Dis-patch.
[Newman and Block2006] David J. Newman and SharonBlock.
2006.
Probabilistic topic decomposition ofan eighteenth-century American newspaper.
Journalof the American Society for Information Science andTechnology, 57(6):753?767.
[Walker et al2010] Daniel D. Walker, William B. Lund,and Eric K. Ringger.
2010.
Evaluating models oflatent document semantics in the presence of OCRerrors.
In Proceedings of the 2010 Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,pages 240?250.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.104
