Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis, ACL-HLT 2011, pages 10?18,24 June, 2011, Portland, Oregon, USA c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsA verb lexicon model for deep sentiment analysis and opinion miningapplicationsIsa Maks Piek VossenVU University, Faculty of ArtsDe Boelelaan 1105, 1081 HV Amsterdam,The NetherlandsVU University, Faculty of ArtsDe Boelelaan 1105, 1081 HV Amsterdam,The Netherlandse.maks@let.vu.nl p.vossen@let.vu.nlAbstractThis paper presents a lexicon model for subjec-tivity description of Dutch verbs that offers aframework for the development of sentimentanalysis and opinion mining applications basedon a deep syntactic-semantic approach.
Themodel aims to describe the detailed subjectivityrelations that exist between the participants ofthe verbs, expressing multiple attitudes for eachverb sense.
Validation is provided by an anno-tation study that shows that these subtle subjec-tivity relations are reliably identifiable byhuman annotators.1 IntroductionThis paper presents a lexicon model for the de-scription of verbs to be used in applications likesentiment analysis and opinion mining.
Verbs areconsidered as the core of the sentence as they nameevents or states with participants expressed by theother elements in the sentence.
We consider thedetailed and subtle subjectivity relations that existbetween the different participants as part of themeaning of a verb that can be modelled  in a lex-icon.Consider the following example:Ex.
(1) ?
Damilola?s killers were boasting abouthis murder...This sentence expresses a positive sentiment of thekillers towards the fact they murdered Damilolaand it expresses the negative attitude on behalf ofthe speaker/writer who has negative opinion of thethe murderers of Damilola.
Both attitudes are partof the semantic profile of the verb and should bemodelled in a subjectivity lexicon.As opinion mining and sentiment analysis appli-cations tend to utilize more and more the composi-tion of sentences (Moilanen (2007), Choi andCardie (2008), Jia et al (2009)) and to use the val-ue and properties of the verbs expressed by itsdependency trees, there is a need for specializedlexicons where this information can be found.
Forthe analysis of more complex opinionated text likenews, political documents, and (online) debates theidentification of the attitude holder and topic are ofcrucial importance.
Applications that exploit therelations between the verb meaning and its argu-ments can better determine sentiment at sentence-level and trace emotions and opninions to theirholders.Our model seeks to combine the insights from arather complex model like Framenet (Ruppenhoferet al (2010)) with operational models like Senti-wordnet where simple polarity values (positive,negative, neutral) are applied to the entire lexicon.Subjectivity relations that exist between the differ-ent participants are labeled with information con-cerning both the identity of the attitude holder andthe orientation (positive vs. negative) of the atti-tude.
The model accounts for the fact that verbsmay express multiple attitudes.
It includes a cate-gorisation into semantic categories relevant to opi-nion mining and sentiment analysis and providesmeans for the identification of the attitude holderand the polarity of the attitude and for the descrip-tion of the emotions and sentiments of the different10participants involved in the event.
Attention is paidto the role of the speaker/writer of the event whoseperspective is expressed and whose views on whatis happening are conveyed in the text.As we wish to provide a model for a lexicon thatis operational and can be exploited by tools fordeeper sentiment analysis and rich opinion mining,the model is validated by an annotation study of580 verb lexical units (cf.
section 4).2 Related WorkPolarity and subjectivity lexicons are valuableresources for sentiment analysis and opinion min-ing.
For English, a couple of smaller and largerlexicons are available.Widely used in sentiment analysis are auto-matically derived or manually built polarity lexi-cons.
These lexicons are lists of words (forexample, Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown (1997),Kamps et al (2004), Kim and Hovy (2004) orword senses (for example, Esuli and Sebastiani(2006), Wiebe and Mihalcea (2006), Su and Mar-kert, (2008)) annotated for negative or positivepolarity.
As they attribute single polarity values(positive, negative, neutral) to words they are notable to account for more complex cases like boast(cf.
example 1) which carry both negative andpositive polarity dependening on who is the atti-tude holder.Strapparava and Valitutti (2004) developedWordnet-Affect, an affective extension of Word-net.
It describes ?direct?
affective words, i.e.
wordswhich denote emotions.
Synsets are classified intocategories like emotion, cognitive state, trait, be-haviour, attitude and feeling.
The resource is fur-ther developed (Valittutti and Strapparava, 2010)by adding the descriptions of ?indirect?
affectivewords according to a specific appraisal model ofemotions (OCC).
An indirect affective word indi-rectly refers to emotion categories and can refer todifferent possible emotions according to the sub-jects (actor, actee and observer) semantically con-nected to it.
For example, the word victory, iflocalized in the past, can be used for expressingpride (related to the actor or ?winner?
), and disap-pointment (related to the actee or ?loser?).
If victo-ry is a future event the expressed emotion is hope.Their model is similar to ours, as we both relateattitude to the participants of the event.
However,their model focuses on a rich description of differ-ent aspects and implications of emotions for eachparticipant whereas we infer a single positive ornegative attitude.
Their model seems to focus onthe cognitive aspects of emotion whereas we aimto also model the linguistic aspects by includingspecifically the attitude of the Speaker/Writer inour model.
Moreover, our description is not at thelevel of the synset but at lexical unit level whichenables us to differentiate gradations of thestrength of emotions within the synsets.
Thisenables us to relate the attitudes directly to thesyntactic-semantic patterns of the lexical unit.Also Framenet (Ruppenhofer et al (2010)) isused as a resource in opinion mining and sentimentanalysis (Kim and Hovy (2006)).
Framenet (FN) isan online lexical resource for English that containsmore than 11,600 lexical units.
The aim is to clas-sify words into categories (frames) which give foreach lexical unit the range of semantic and syntac-tic combinatory possibilities.
The semantic rolesrange from general ones like Agent, Patient andTheme to specific ones such as Speaker, Messageand Addressee for Verbs of Communication.
FNincludes frames such as Communication, Judg-ment, Opinion, Emotion_Directed and semanticroles such as Judge, Experiencer, Communicatorwhich are highly relevant for opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
However, subjectivity is notsystematically and not (yet) exhaustively encodedin Framenet.
For example, the verb gobble (eathurriedly and noisily) belongs to the frame Inges-tion (consumption of food, drink or smoke) andneither the frame nor the frame elements accountfor the negative connotation of gobble.
Yet, wethink that a resource like FN with rich and corpusbased valency patterns is an ideal base/ startingpoint for subjectivity description.None of these theories, models or resources isspecifically tailored for the subjectivity descriptionof verbs.
Studies which focus on verbs for senti-ment analysis, usually refer to smaller subclasssesslike, for example, emotion verbs (Mathieu, 2005,Mathieu and Fellbaum, 2010) or quotation verbs(Chen 2005, 2007).3 ModelThe proposed model is built as an extension of analready existing lexical database for Dutch, i.e.11Cornetto (Vossen et al 2008).
Cornetto combinestwo resources with different semantic organisa-tions: the Dutch Wordnet (DWN) which has, likethe Princeton Wordnet, a synset organization andthe Dutch Reference Lexicon (RBN) which is or-ganised in form-meaning composites or lexicalunits.
The description of the lexical units includesdefinitions, usage constraints, selectional restric-tions, syntactic behaviors, illustrative contexts, etc.DWN and RBN are linked to each other as eachsynonym in a synset is linked to a correspondinglexical unit.
The subjectivity information is mod-elled as an extra layer related to the lexical units ofReference Lexicon thus providing a basis for thedescription of the verbs at word sense level.3.1 Semantic ClassesFor the identification of relevant semantic classeswe adopt ?
and broaden ?
the definition of subjec-tive language by Wiebe et al (2006).
Subjectiveexpressions are defined as words and phrases thatare used to express private states like opinions,emotions, evaluations, speculations.Three main types are distinguished:Type I:Direct reference to private states (e.g.
his alarmgrew, he was boiling with anger).
We include inthis category emotion verbs (like feel, love andhate) and cognitive verbs (like defend, dare,realizeetc.)
;Type II:Reference to speech or writing events that expressprivate states (e.g.
he condemns the president, theyattack the speaker).
According to our schema, thiscategory  includes all speech and writing eventsand the annotation  schema points out if they areneutral (say, ask) or bear polarity (condemn,praise);Type III:Expressive subjective elements are expressionsthat indirectly express private states (e.g.
superb,that doctor is a quack).
According to our annota-tion  schema this category is not a separate one ,but verbs senses which fall in this category arealways also member of one of the other categories.For example, boast (cf.
ex.
1) is both a Type II (i.e.speech act verb) verb and a Type III verb as it indi-rectly expresses the negative attitude of the speak-er/writer towards the speech event.
By consideringthis category as combinational, it enables to makea clear distinction between Speaker/Writer subjec-tivity and participant subjectivity.Moreover, we add a fourth category which in-cludes verbs which implicitly refer to privatestates.
If we consider the following examples:Ex.
(2) the teacher used to beat the  studentsEx.
(3) C.A is arrested for public intoxication  bythe policeNeither beat nor arrest are included in one of thethree mentioned categories as neither of them ex-plicitly expresses a private state.
However, inmany contexts these verbs implicitly and indirectlyrefer to the private state of one of the participants.In ex.
(2) the teacher and the students will havebad feelings towards each other and also in ex.
(3)C.A.
will have negative feelings about the situa-tion.
To be able to describe also these aspects ofsubjectivity we define the following additionalcategory:Type IV:Indirect reference to a private state that is thesource or the consequence of an event (action, stateor process).
The event is explicitly mentioned.Verb senses which are categorized as Type I, II orIII are considered as subjective; verb senses cate-gorized as Type IV are only subjective if one of theannotation categories (see below for more details)has a non-zero value; otherwise they are consi-dered as objective.We assigned well-known semantic categories toeach of the above mentioned Types (I, II and IV).Table 1 presents the resulting categories with ex-amples for each category.
The first column lists thepotential subjectivity classes that can apply.12Table 1 Semantic CategoriesType %ame Description ExamplesI (+III) EXPERIENCER Verbs that denote emotions.
Included are both experiencersubject and experiencer object verbs.hate, love, enjoy, enter-tain, frighten, upset, fru-strateI(+III) ATTITUDE A cognitive action performed by one of the participants, ingeneral the structural subject of the verb.
The category is rele-vant as these cognitive actions may imply attitudes betweenparticipants.defend, think, dare, ig-nore, avoid, feign, pre-tend, patronize, devote,dedicateII(+III) JUDGMENT A judgment (mostly positive or negative) that someone mayhave towards something or somebody.
The verbs directly referto the thinking or speech act of judgment.praise, admire, rebuke,criticize, scold, reproach,value, rate, estimateII(+III) COMM-S A speech act that denotes the transfer of a spoken or writtenmessage from the perspective of the sender or speaker (S) ofthe message.
The sender or speaker is the structural subject ofthe verb.speak, say, write, grum-ble, stammer, talk, email,cable, chitchat, nag, in-formII(+III) COMM-R A speech act that denotes the transfer of a spoken or writtenmessage from the perspective of the receiver(R) of the mes-sage.
The receiver is the structural subject of the verbread, hear, observe,record, watch, compre-hendIV(+III) ACTION A physical action performed by one of the participants, ingeneral the structural subject of the verb.
The category is rele-vant as in some cases participants express an attitude by per-forming this action.run, ride, disappear, hit,strike, stagger, stumbleIV(+III) PROCESS_STATE This is a broad and underspecified category of state and processverbs (non-action verbs) and may be considered as a rest cate-gory as it includes all verbs which are not included in othercategories.grow, disturb, drizzle,mizzle133.2 Attitude and rolesIn our model, verb subjectivity is defined in termsof verb arguments carrying attitude towards eachother, i.e.
as experiencers holding attitudes towardstargets or communicators expressing a judgmentabout an evaluee.
The various participants or atti-tude holders which are involved in the events ex-pressed by the verbs all may have differentattitudes towards the event and/or towards eachother.
We developed an annotation schema (seeTable 2 below) which enables us to relate the atti-tude holders, the orientation of the attitude (posi-tive, negative or neutral) and the syntacticvalencies of the verb to each other.To be able to attribute the attitudes to the relevantparticipants we identify for each form-meaningunit the semantic-syntactic distribution of the ar-guments, the associated Semantic Roles and somecoarse grained selection restrictions.We make a distinction between participantswhich are part of the described situation, the so-called event internal participants, and participantsthat are outside the described situation, the externalparticipants.?
Event internal attitude holdersThe event internal attitude holders are partici-pants which are lexicalized by the structural sub-ject (A1), direct object (A2 or A3) orindirect/prepositional object (A2 or A3).
A2 andA3 both can be syntactically realized as an NP, aPP, that-clause or infinitive clause.
Each partici-pant is associated with coarse-grained selectionrestrictions: SMB (somebody +human), SMT(something -human) or SMB/SMT (some-body/something + ?
human).Attitude (positive, negative and neutral) is attri-buted to the relations between participants A1 vs.A2 (A1A2) and A1 vs. A3 (A1A3) and/or the rela-tion between the participants (A1, A2 and A3) andthe event itself (A1EV, A2EV and A3EV, respec-tively) as illustrated by the following examples.verdedigen  (defend: argue or speak in defense of)A1A2:  positiveA1A3:  negativeSMB (A1) SMB/SMT(A2)tegen SMB/SMT(A3)He(A1) defends his decision(A2) againstcritique(A3)verliezen (lose: miss from one's possessions)A1EV: negativeSMB(A1) SMB/SMT(A2)He (A1) loses his sunglasses (A2) like crazy?
Event external attitude holdersEvent external attitude holders are participants whoare not part of the event itself but who are outsideobservers.
We distinguish two kind of perspec-tives, i.e.
that of the Speaker or Writer (SW) and amore general perspective (ALL) shared by a vastmajority of people.?
Speaker /Writer (SW)The Speaker/Writer (SW) expresses his attitudetowards the described state of affairs by choosingwords with overt affective connotation (cf.
ex.
4)or by conveying his subjective interpretation ofwhat happens (cf.
ex.
5).Ex.
4: He gobbles down three hamburgers a dayIn (ex.
4) the SW not only describes the eatingbehavior of the ?he?
but he also expresses his nega-tive attitude towards this behavior by choosing thenegative connotation word gobble.(Ex.
5) B. S. misleads district A votersIn (ex.
5), the SW expresses his negative attitudetowards the behavior of the subject of the sentence,by conceptualizing it in a negative way.?
ALLSome concepts are considered as negative by a vastmajority of people and therefore express a moregeneral attitude shared by most people.
For exam-ple, to drown, will be considered negative by eve-rybody, i.e.
observers, participants to the event andlistener to the speech event.
These concepts arelabeled with a positive or negative attitude label forALL.
The annotation model is illustrated in table 2.14FORM SUMMARY SEMTYPE COMPLEME%TATIO% A1A2 A1A3 A1EV A2EV A3EV SW ALLvreten(devour, gobble)eat immoderatelyand hurriedlyACTION SMT (A2) 2 0 0 0 0 -4 0afpakken(take away)take without theowner?s consentACTION SMT(A2) van SMB (A3) 0 0 0 0 -3 0 0verliezen (lose)lose: fail to keepor to maintainPROCESS SMT (A2) 0 0 -3 0 0 0 0dwingen (force)urge a person toan actionATTITUDE SMB (A2) tot SMT (A3) -3 2 0 0 0 0 0opscheppen (boast)to speak withexaggeration andexcessive prideCOMM-S over SMB/SMT (A2) 3 0 0 0 0 -4 0helpen (help)give help or assis-tance ; be ofserviceACTION SMB(A2) met SMT (A3) 2 1 0 0 0 0 0bekritiseren(criticize)express criticismofCOMM-S SMB (A2)  -3 0 0 0 0 0 0zwartmaken (slander)charge falsely orwith maliciousintentCOMM-S SMB (A2)  -3 0 0 0 0 -4 0verwaarlozen (neglect) fail to attend to ATTITUDE SMB (A2) -3 0 0 0 0 -4 0afleggen(lay out)prepare a deadbodyACTION SMB (A2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 -1Explanation:A1A2   A1 has a positive (+) or negative(-) attitude towards A2A1A3  A1 has a positive (+) or negative(-) attitude towards A3A1EV  A1 has a positive or negative attitude towards the eventA2EV  A2 has a positive or negative attitude towards the eventA3EV  A3 has a positive or negative attitude towards the eventSW  SW has a positive or negative attitude towards event or towards the structural subject of the eventALL   there is a general positive or negative attitude towards the eventTable 2: Annotation Schema4 Intercoder Agreement StudyTo explore our hypothesis that different attitudesassociated with the different attitude holders can bemodelled in an operational lexicon and to explorehow far we can stretch the description of subtlesubjectivity relations, we performed an inter-annotator agreement study to assess the reliabilityof the annotation schema.We are aware of the fact that it is a rather complexannotation schema and that high agreement ratesare not likely to be achieved.
The main goal of theannotation task is to determine what extent thiskind of subjectivity information can be reliablyidentified, which parts of the annotation schemaare more difficult than others and perhaps need tobe redefined.
This information is especially valua-ble when ?
in future- lexical acquisition tasks willbe carried out to acquire automatically parts of theinformation specified by the annotation schema.
.Annotation is performed by 2 linguists (i.e.
bothauthors of this paper).
We did a first annotationtask for training and discussed the problems beforethe gold standard annotation task was carried out.The annotation is based upon the full description of15the lexical units including glosses and illustrativeexamples.4.1 Agreement resultsAll attitude holder categories were annotated ascombined categories and will be evaluated togetherand as separate categories.?
Semantic category polarityOverall percent agreement for all 7 attitude hold-er categories is 66% with a Cohen kappa (?)
of0.62 (cf.
table 3, first row).
Table 3 shows that notall semantic classes are of equal difficulty.Numberof itemsKappaAgreementPercentAgreementAll  581 0.62 0.66Comm-s 57 0.75 0.77Comm-r 16 0.55 0.81Attitude 74 0.55 0.60Action 304 0.60 0.66StateProcess 83 0.47 0.55Judgment 25 0.82 0.84Experiencer 23 0.74 0.83Table 3: Agreement for semantic categories?
Attitude Holder PolarityTable 4 shows that agreement rates for each sepa-rate attitude holder differ.
Although some catego-ries are not reliable identifiable (cf.
A1EV, A2EV,A3EV, ALL), the larger categories with manysentiment-laden items (cf.
the third column whichgives the coverage in percentage with regard topositive or negative annotations) are the ones withhigh agreement rates.Kappa PercentagreementPosOrNegA1-A2 0.73 0.89 25%A1-A3 0.73 0.98 2%A1EV 0.41 0.93 6%A2EV 0.56 0.94 7%A3EV 0.54 0.98 2%SW 0.76 0.91 23%ALL 0.37 0.87 10%Table 4: Agreement rates for attitude holder categories?
Attitude Holder PolarityTable 5 gives agreement figures for the most im-portant attitude holder categories (A1A2 and SW)with respect to the different semantic categories.Low scores are found especially in categories (likeState_Process) less relevant for Sentiment Analysisand opinion mining.A1A2(?)SW(?
)Comm-s 0.83 0.93Comm-r 1.00 1.00Experiencer 0.82 0.84Action 0.61 0.78Judgment 0.92 0.63State-process 0.33 0.64Attitude 0.72 0.68Table 5: Kappa agreement  for SW and A1A2?
Single PolarityOne single polarity value for each item is derivedby collapsing all attitude holder polarity valuesinto one single value.
If an item is tagged withdifferent polarity values we apply them in the fol-lowing order: SW, A1A2, A1A3, A1EV, A2EV,A3EV, ALL.
As can be seen from table 6, ob-served agreement is 84% and kappa=0.75.
Separatepolarity computation (positive, negative and neu-tral) ?
with one polarity value of interest and theother values combined into one non-relevant cate-gory - shows that all polarity values are reliableidentifiable.Kappa PercentAgreementSingle polarity 0.75 0.84Positive 0.70 0.91Negative 0.82 0.92Neutral 0.72 0.86Table 6: agreement rates for polarity categories4.2 Disagreement AnalysisOverall agreement is 66% (K=0.62) which is areasonable score, in particular for such a compli-cated annotation schema.
Moreover, scores arehigh for semantic categories such as Communica-tion (0.75), Judgment (0.80), Experiencer (0.74)which are relevant for subjectivity analysis.Table 4 shows that low performance is largelydue to the attitude holder categories A1EV, A2EV,A3EV and ALL which have scores ranging from0.37 to 0.56 whereas the categories A1A2, A1A3and SW are reliably identifiable.
As the last 3 cate-gories are the largest ones with respect to senti-16ment bearing items, overall scores do not degrademuch.The low scores of A1EV, A2EV, A3EV andALL are probably due to the fact that they are easi-ly confused with each other.
For example, jagen(hunt), vallen (fall), klemmen (stick, jam) andflauwvallen (faint) all have negative polarity butthe annotators do not agree about who is the atti-tude holder:  ALL (i.e.
ALL have a negative atti-tude towards hunting, falling, being jammed, andfainting) or A1/2-RES (i.e.
the person who falls, isjammed, is fainted or is hunted is the one who hasthe negative attitude).
Confusion is found alsobetween A2EV and A1A2.
For example, with re-spect to misleiden (mislead), annotators agreeabout a negative attitude from A1 vs. A2 , but oneannotator marks additionally a negative attitude onbehalf of A2 (A2EV: negative) whereas the otherdoes not.Especially the category ALL seems not to bedefined well as many items are marked positive ornegative by one annotator and neutral by the other.Examples of disagreements of this kind are ploe-gen (plough), ontwateren (drain), omvertrekken(pull over) and achternalopen (follow, pursue).Both annotators regard these items as objectiveexpressions but they do not agree about whethersome general positive or negative feelings are as-sociated to them or not.Disagreement occurs also where collocationalinformation may lead one annotator to see subjec-tivity in a sense and the other not.
For example,houden (keep - conform one?s action or practiceto) associated with collocations like to keep ap-pointments and to keep one?s promises is consi-dered positive (A1A2) by one annotator andneutral by the other.
This seems to apply to allfrequent  light verbs with little semantic contentlike make, do and take.With respect to the category SW disagreementsdo not arise from confusions with other categoriesbut from judgments which differ between neutralvs.
non-neutral.
Consider for example, tevredens-tellen (mollify) as in I mollified her (A2) by clean-ing my room.
Both annotators agree about thepositive attitude between A1 and A2, but they dis-agree (SW:positive vs. SW:neutral) about whetherthe SW conveys a positive attitude towards ?I?
bydescribing her behavior or not.
Other examples ofthis type are ignoreren (ignore), zich verzoenen(make up), redden (deal with), and dwingen(force).Overall agreement for one polarity is rather highwith ?=0.75.
(cf.
table 6).
The scores are compar-ible to agreement rates of other studies where verbsare marked for single polarity.
For example, inter-annotator agreement between 2 annotators whoannotated 265 verb senses of the Micro-WNopcorpus (Cerini et al (2007)) is 0.75 (?)
as well.
Itshows that a complicated and layered annotationdoes not hamper overall agreement and may alsoproduce lexicons which are appropriate to usewithin applications that use single polarity only.Summarizing, we conclude that overall agree-ment is good, especially with regard to most se-mantic categories relevant for subjectivity analysisand with respect to the most important attitudeholder categories, SW and A1A2.
When definingan operational model the small and low scoringcategories, i.e.
A1/A2/A3EV and ALL, will becollapsed into one underspecified attitude holdercategory.5 ConclusionsIn this paper we presented a lexicon model for thedescription of verbs to be used in applications likedeeper sentiment analysis and opinion mining,describing the detailed and subtle subjectivity rela-tions that exist between the different participants ofa verb.
The relations can be labeled with subjectiv-ity information concerning the identity of the atti-tude holder, the orientation (positive vs. negative)of the attitude and its target.
Special attention ispaid to the role of the speaker/writer of the eventwhose perspective is expressed and whose viewson what is happening are conveyed in the text.We measured the reliability of the annotation.The results show that when using all 7 attitudeholder categories, 3 categories, SW, A1A2 andA1A3 are reliable and the other 4 are not.
As thesenot reliable categories are also small, we think thatthe annotation schema is sufficiently validated.An additional outcome to our study is that wecreated a gold standard of 580 verb senses.
In thefuture we will use this gold standard  to test me-thods for the automatic detection of subjectivityand polarity properties of word senses in order tobuild a rich subjectivity lexicon for Dutch verbs.176 AcknowledgmentsThis research has been carried out within theproject  From Text To Political Positions (http://www2.let.vu.nl/oz/cltl/t2pp/).
It is funded by theVUA Interfaculty Research Institute CAMeRA.7 ReferencesAndreevskaia, A.  and S. Bergler (2006) Mining Word-Net for Fuzzy Sentiment:Sentiment Tag ExtractionfromWordNet Glosses.
In: EACL-2006, Trento, Ita-ly.Chen, L. (2005) Transitivity in Media Texts: negativeverbal process sub-functions and narrator bias.
In In-ternational Review of Applied Linguistics in Teach-ing, (IRAL-vol.
43) Mouton De Gruyter, The Hague,The Netherlands.Cerini, S., Compagnoni, V., Demontis, A., Formentelli,M., and Gandini, G. (2007).
Language resources andlinguistic theory: Typology, second language acquisi-tion, English linguistics (Forthcoming), chapter Mi-cro-WNOp: A gold standard for the evaluation ofautomatically compiled lexical resources for opinionmining.
Milano, Italy.Choi Y. and C. Cardie (2008).
Learning with Compositional Semantics as Structural Inference for subsentential Sentiment Analysis.
Proceedings of RecentAdvances in Natural Language Processing (RANLP),Hawaii.Esuli, Andrea and Fabrizio Sebastiani.
(2006).
Senti-WordNet: A Publicly Available Lexical Resource forOpinion Mining.
In: Proceedings of LREC-2006,Genova, Italy.Hatzivassiloglou, V., McKeown, K.B.
(1997) Predictingthe semantic orientation of adjectives.
In Proceedingsof ACL-97, Madrid, Spain.Jia, L., Yu, C.T., Meng, W. (2009) The effect of negationon sentiment analysis and retrieval effectiveness.
InCIKM-2009, China.Kamps, J.,  R. J. Mokken, M. Marx, and M. de Rijke(2004).
Using WordNet to measure semantic orienta-tion of adjectives.
In  Proceedings LREC-2004, Paris.Kim, S. and E. Hovy (2004) Determining the sentimentof opinions.
In Proceedings of COLING, Geneva,Swtizerland.Kim, S. and E. Hovy (2006) Extracting Opinions Ex-pressed in Online News Media Text with OpinionHolders and Topics.
In: Proceedings of the Workshopon Sentiment and Subjectivity in Text (SST-06).
Syd-ney, Australia.Maks, I.and P. Vossen (2010)  Modeling Attitude, Polar-ity and Subjectivity in Wordnet.
In Proceedings ofFifth Global Wordnet Conference, Mumbai, India.Mathieu, Y. Y.
(2005).
A Computational SemanticLexicon of French Verbs of Emotion.
In: ComputingAttitude and Affect in Text: Theory and ApplicationsJ.
Shanahan, Yan Qu, J.Wiebe (Eds.).
Springer, Dor-drecht, The Netherlands.Mathieu,Y.Y.
and C. Felbaum (2010).
Verbs of emotionin French and English.
In: Proceedings of GWC-2010, Mumbai, India.Moilanen K. and S. Pulman.
(2007).
Sentiment Compo-sition.
In Proceedings of Recent Advances in NaturalLanguage Processing (RANLP), Bulgaria.Ruppenhofer, J. , M. Ellsworth, M. Petruck, C. Johnson,and J. Scheffzcyk (2010) Framenet II: Theory andPractice (e-book) http://framenet.icsi.
berkeley.edu/book/book.pdf.C.
Strapparava and A. Valitutti (2004).
WordNet-Affect:an affective extension of WordNet.
In ProceedingsLREC 2004, Lisbon, PortugalSu, F.and K. Markert (2008).
Eliciting Subjectivity andPolarity Judgements on Word Senses.
In Proceedingsof Coling-2008, Manchester, UK.Valitutti, A. and C. Strapparava (2010).
InterfacingWordnet-Affect withj OCC model of emotions.
InProceedings of EMOTION-2010, Valletta, Malta.Wiebe, Janyce and Rada Micalcea.
(2006) .
Word Senseand Subjectivity.
In Proceedings of ACL?06, Sydney,Australia.18
