Proceedings of the ACL 2011 Workshop on Relational Models of Semantics (RELMS 2011), page 1,Portland, Oregon, USA, June 23, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsGoing Beyond Shallow Semantics(invited talk)Martha PalmerUniversity of Colorado at BoulderMartha.Palmer@colorado.eduAbstractShallow semantic analyzers, such as semantic role labeling and sense tagging, are increasing in ac-curacy and becoming commonplace.
However, they only provide limited and local representations oflocal words and individual predicate-argument structures.
This talk will address some of the currentchallenges in producing deeper, connected representations of eventualities.
Available resources, suchas VerbNet, FrameNet and TimeBank, that can assist in this process will also be discussed, as well assome of their limitations.Speaker?s BioMartha Palmer is a Full Professor at the University of Colorado with joint appointments in Linguisticsand Computer Science and is an Institute of Cognitive Science Faculty Fellow.
She recently won aBoulder Faculty Assembly 2010 Research Award.
Beginning with her dissertation work at Edinburghand her first job as a Research Scientist at Unisys, her research has been focused on trying to capturethe meanings of words in representations that the computer can use to build up meanings of complexsentences and documents.
These representations can in turn be used to improve the computer?s abilityto perform question answering, information retrieval, and machine translation.
Current approaches relyon techniques for applying supervised machine learning algorithms, which use vast amounts of anno-tated training data.
Therefore, she and her students, both at Colorado and previously at the University ofPennsylvania, are engaged in providing data with word sense tags and semantic role labels for English,Chinese, Arabic, and Hindi, funded by DARPA and NSF.
They also use machine learning algorithmsto develop automatic sense taggers and semantic role labelers, and to extract bilingual lexicons fromparallel corpora.
A more recent focus is the application of these methods to biomedical journal articlesand clinical notes, funded by NIH.
She is a co-editor for both the Journal of Natural Language Engi-neering and LiLT, Linguistic Issues in Language Technology.
She is a past President of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, past Chair of SIGLEX and SIGHAN, and is currently the Director ofthe 2011 Linguistics Institute to be held in Boulder, Colorado.1
