Proceedings of the 6th EACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 13?17,Avignon, France, 24 April 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsBAD: An assistant tool for making verses in BasqueManex Agirrezabal, In?aki Alegria, Bertol ArrietaUniversity of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU)maguirrezaba008@ikasle.ehu.es, i.alegria@ehu.es, bertol@ehu.esMans HuldenIkerbasque (Basque Science Foundation)mhulden@email.arizona.eduAbstractWe present work on a verse-compositionassistant for composing, checking correct-ness of, and singing traditional Basquebertsoak?impromptu verses on particularthemes.
A performing bertsolari?a versesinger in the Basque Country?must ad-here to strict rules that dictate the formatand content of the verses sung.
To helpthe aspiring bertsolari, we provide a toolthat includes a web interface that is ableto analyze, correct, provide suggestions andsynonyms, and tentatively also sing (usingtext-to-speech synthesis) verses composedby the user.1 IntroductionIn the Basque Country there exists a long-standing live performance tradition of improvis-ing verses?a type of ex tempore composition andsinging called bertsolaritza.
Verses in bertsolar-itza can be seen as discourses with strict rulesgoverning the technical structure of them: versesmust contain a certain number of lines and eachline must have a defined number of syllables, cer-tain lines have to rhyme in certain patterns, and soforth.In this paper we present a web-based assistanttool for constructing verses (bertsoak) accordingto the rules of bertsolaritza (Garzia et al 2001).If the reader is interested in this topic, we rec-ommend watching the 2011 film Bertsolari1 2, di-rected by Asier Altuna.1IMDB: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt20585832Trailer on: http://vimeo.com/93550662 Relationship to earlier workThere exist some prior works dealing with Basqueverse-making and computer technologies, such asBertsolariXa (Arrieta et al, 2001), which is arhyme search tool implemented as finite-state au-tomata using the two-level morphology formal-ism.
The tool also contains other features, includ-ing semantic categorization of words, narrowingword-searches to certain themes, etc.
While Bert-solariXa focuses mostly on the word-level, thecurrent work also includes constraints on over-all verse structure in its implementation as wellas a synonym search tool, a melody suggestionsystem, and possibilities for plugging in text-to-speech synthesis of verses.2.1 The Bertsolari traditionBertsolaritza is very ingrained in the BasqueCountry and championships, competitions andget-togethers on bertsolaritza are quite common.Usually the competitors in such event, called bert-solaris, are given a theme to produce a verse onunder some very limited time constraints.But the Basque Country is not the only placethat hosts such troubadour traditions?similarcustoms are present in many other countries suchas Cuba, Brazil, Argentina, etc.
The goal of thecurrent tool is to be generalizable, and so appli-cable to various strategies of verse improvisation,and possibly be useful not only for Basque speak-ers, but also for others.Below we briefly present an example of a versemade in the Basque Country.
In 1986 AndoniEgan?a (a well-known bertsolari) was asked tosing a bertso and assigned a topic.
In the verse,he was asked to play the role of an old personwho lived alone, and who realized that he could13not even tie his shoes.
Within a few seconds hecomposed and sang three verses.
Here, we ana-lyze the first verse.Verse:Gazte aroan ibili arrengustora tirriki-tarra,denbora honen joan etorriakederki jo dit gitarra,gorputza daukat ximeldurikanta eskuen punta zaharra,denborarekin seko galdu detgazte aroko indarra,ez al da pena gizon mardul bathola ibili beharra.Translation:Even when I was youngI was always on a spreeover timeI have been punishedI have a crumpled bodyand the tip of the hands very old,Over time I lostthe strength I had when I was young,It?s a shame that a strong manhas to end up like me.The special charm of bertsolaritza improvi-sation is that people proficient in the art canquickly express a variety of ideas, although theyare working with very restrictive rules concern-ing the number of syllables in words they use,and how the words must rhyme.
We must takeinto account that Andoni Egan?a was able to singthis verse within a few seconds of being giventhe topic, and also, that it complies exactly witha certain metric.
In this case, the verse containseight lines, each odd line consisting of ten sylla-bles, and each even line of eight syllables, withthe even lines rhyming.Formal training in the bertsolari tradition alsoexists in the Basque Country.
In the last 20 to30 years, an important movement has developedthat aims to provide instruction to upcoming gen-erations on how to create verses (orally or inwriting).
This kind of instruction usually takesplace in learning centers called bertso-eskolak,which in English roughly means, ?verse-makingschools.?
The proliferation of this movement hasproduced a strong base of young bertsolaris, ofwhom many achieve an outstanding level of im-provisation skills.3 The BAD toolBAD is the acronym for ?Bertsotarako Arbel Dig-itala?, roughly ?Digital verse board.?
The aimof the tool is to serve as a general assistant forbertsolari-style verse composition and help verse-making learners in their learning process.This tool has been developed using the PHPprogramming language, but it contains certainparts developed using finite-state technology.
Themain functions of this tool, which will be dis-cussed in more detail in the next five sections, arethe following: visualization of the verse structure,structure checking, rhyme and synonym searchingand verse singing.3.1 Verse structureThe main rules of the bertsolari verse are that averse must consist of a certain predefined numberof lines and each line in turn, of a predefined num-ber of syllables.
Traditionally, about a hundreddifferent schemes are used, and the tool providessupport for all these patterns.
For example, thestructure called ?Hamarreko handia?
has ten linesand ten syllables in the odd-numbered lines, andeight syllables in the even-numbered lines.
In thisstructure, the even-numbered lines have to rhyme.Selecting this scheme, the tool will mark the cor-responding lines with their requirements.The web interface can be seen in figure 1,which shows the general layout of the tool, illus-trated with the example verse referred to above?we see that each line has been approved in termsof line length and syllable structure by the tool.We have designed a database in which the mainverse structures are saved so that when the user se-lects one verse schema, the system knows exactlythe number of lines it must contain, where mustit rhyme and how many syllables each line shouldhave.
Those schemata are also linked to melodies,each melody corresponding to one possible struc-ture.3.2 Structure checkingAfter writing the verse, the system can evaluate ifit is technically correct, i.e.
if the overall structureis correct and if each line in the form abides by therequired syllable count and rhyming scheme.
Thesyllable counter is implemented using the fomasoftware (Hulden, 2009), and the implementation(Hulden, 2006) can be found on the homepage of14Figure 1: A verse written in the BAD web application.foma.3Separately, we have also developed a rhymechecker, which extracts special patterns in thelines that must rhyme and checks their confor-mity.These patterns are extracted using foma (seesection 3.4) after which some phonological rulesare applied.
For example, an example rule era?
{era, eda, ega, eba}, models the fact that anyword ending in era, for example, etxera, willrhyme with all words that end in era, eda, eba orega.
These rhyming patterns have been extractedaccording to the phonological laws described in(Amuriza, 1981).3.3 Synonym searchUsually, people who write verses tend to quicklyexhaust their vocabulary and ideas with to ex-press what they want to say, or encounter prob-lems with the number of syllables in various ten-tative words they have in mind.
For example,if the verse-maker wants to say something con-taining the word ?family,?
(familia in Euskera, afour-syllable word) but is forced to use a three-syllable word in a particular context, the inter-face provides for possibilities to look for three-syllable synonyms of the word familia, producingthe word sendia?
a word whose meaning is oth-erwise the same, and made up of three syllables.For developing the synonym search, we used amodified version of the Basque Wordnet (Pociello3http://foma.googlecode.comet al, 2010), originally developed by the IXAgroup at the University of the Basque Country.Within Wordnet we search the synsets for the in-coming word, and the words that correspond tothose synsets are returned.3.4 Rhyme searchThe classical and most well-known problem inbertsolaritza concern the rhyming patterns.
Asmentioned, various lines within a verse are re-quired to rhyme, according to certain predefinedschemata.
To search for words that rhyme withother words in a verse, the BAD tool contains arhyme search engine.
In the interface, this is lo-cated in the right part of the BAD tool main view,as seen in figure 2.The rhyme searcher is built upon finite-statetechnology, commonly used for developing mor-phological and phonological analyzers, and callsupon the freely available foma-tool, to calculatematching and nonmatching rhyme schemes.Its grammar is made up of regular expressionsthat are used to identify phonological patterns infinal syllables in the input word.
The result ofthe search is the intersection of these patterns andall the words generated from a morphological de-scription of Basque (Alegria et al, 1996)?thatis, a list of all words that match both the requiredphonological constraints given (rhyming) and amorphological description of Basque.Based upon figure 2, if we search rhymes forthe word landa (cottage), the system proposes a15Figure 2: The response of the rhyme search engine.set of words that can be filtered depending on thenumber of syllables required.
Among this list ofwords, we can find some words that end in anda,such as, Irlanda (Ireland) or eztanda (explosion),but through the application of phonological equiv-alency rules we also find terms like ganga (vault).3.5 Singing synthesisAnother characteristic, as mentioned, is that, inthe end, the verses are intended to be sung in-stead of only being textually represented.
Basedon other ongoing work in singing synthesis, wehave designed a system for singing the verses en-tered into the system in Basque.This is based on the ?singing mode?
of the Fes-tival text-to-speech system (Taylor et al, 1998).The advantage of using this is that Festival isopen-source and has given us ample opportunitiesto modify its behavior.
However, as Festival doesnot currently support Basque directly, we have re-lied on the Spanish support of the Festival sys-tem.44While morphologically and syntactically, Spanish andBasque have no relationship whatsoever, phonetically thelanguages are quite close, with only a few phonemes, syl-Based on current work by the Aholab researchteam in Bilbao?a lab that works on Basquespeech synthesis and recognition?we have im-plemented a singing module for BAD, based onthe text-to-speech HTS engine (Erro et al, 2010).Our application is able to sing the composedverses entered into the system in Basque, with achoice of various standard melodies for bertsolar-itza.54 Discussion and future workNow that the BAD tool has been developed, ourintention is to evaluate it.
To make a qualita-tive evaluation we have gotten in touch with someverse-making schools (bertso-eskola), so that theycan test the system and send us their feedback us-ing a form.
Once the evaluation is made, we willimprove it according to the feedback and the sys-tem will be made public.Our ultimate goal is to develop a system able tocreate verses automatically.
To achieve this long-term goal, there is plenty of work to do and ba-sic research to be done.
We have in our hands agood corpus of 3,500 Basque verse transcriptions,so we intend to study these verses from a mor-phological, syntactical, semantical and pragmaticpoint of view.In the short term, we also plan to expand thesynonym search to be able to provide searchesfor semantically related words and subjects (andnot just synonyms), like hypernyms or hyponyms.The Basque WordNet provides a good opportu-nity for this, as one is easily able to traverse theWordNet to encounter words with varying degreesof semantic similarity.Another feature that we want to develop is asystem that receives as input a verse together witha MIDI file, and where the system automaticallysings the verse to the music provided.Finally, in order for the system to beable to provide better proposals for the verseartist?including perhaps humorous and creativeproposals?we intend to work with approachesto computational creativity.
We are consideringdifferent approaches to this topic, such as in thework on Hahacronym (Stock et al, 2005) or theStandup riddle builder (Ritchie et al, 2001).labification rules, and stress rules being different enough todisturb the system?s behavior.5However, this functionality is not available on the webinterface as of yet.16Figure 3: The BAD application before entering a verse, showing two possible rhyme patterns.AcknowledgmentsThis research has been partially funded by theBasque Government (Research Groups, IT344-10).ReferencesIn?aki Alegria, Xabier Artola, Kepa Sarasola andMiriam Urkia, ?Automatic morphological analysisof Basque?, Literary and Linguistic Computing,ALLC, 1996Xabier Amuriza, ?Hiztegi errimatua?, Alfabetatze Eu-skalduntze Koordinakundea, 1981Bertol Arrieta, In?aki Alegria, Xabier Arregi, ?An as-sistant tool for Verse-Making in Basque based onTwo-Level Morphology?, 2001Daniel Erro, In?aki Sainz, Ibon Saratxaga, Eva Navas,Inma Herna?ez, ?MFCC+F0 Extraction and Wave-form Reconstruction using HNM: Preliminary Re-sults in an HMM-based Synthesizer?, 2010Joxerra Garzia, Jon Sarasua, and Andoni Egan?a,?The art of bertsolaritza: improvised Basque versesinging?, Bertsolari liburuak, 2001John E. Hopcroft, Rajeev Motwani, Jeffrey D. Ullman,?Introduccio?n a la teor?
?a de Auto?matas, Lenguajesy Computacio?n?, Pearson educacio?n, 2002Mans Hulden, ?Foma: a finite-state compiler and li-brary?, Proceedings of the 12th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: Demonstrations Session, p. 29?32, 2009Mans Hulden, ?Finite-state syllabification?, Finite-State Methods and Natural Language Processing, p.86 ?
96, Springer, 2006Kimmo Koskenniemi.
?Two-level morphology: Ageneral computational model for word-form recog-nition and production?.
Publication 11, Universityof Helsinki, Department of General Linguistics,Helsinki, 1983.Eli Pociello, Eneko Agirre, Izaskun Aldezabal,?Methodology and construction of the BasqueWordNet?, 2010Graeme Ritchie, ?Current directions in computationalhumour?, Artificial Intelligence Review, Volume16, Number 2, p. 119 ?
135, Springer, 2001Graeme Ritchie, Ruli Manurung, Helen Pain, AnnaluWaller, Dave O?Mara, ?The STANDUP interactiveriddle builder?, Volume 2, Number 2, p. 67 ?
69,IEEE Intelligent Systems, 2006Oliviero Stock and Carlo Strapparava, ?Hahacronym:A computational humor system?, Proceedings ofthe ACL 2005 on Interactive poster and demonstra-tion sessions, p. 113 ?
116, Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, 2005Paul Taylor, Alan W. Black and Richard Caley, ?Thearchitecture of the Festival speech synthesis sys-tem?, International Speech Communication Asso-ciation, 199817
