Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2012), pages 20?28,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic distance and terminology structuring methods for thedetection of semantically close termsMarie DupuchCNRS UMR 8163 STLUniversite?
Lille 1&359653 Villeneuve d?Ascq, Francedupuchm@hotmail.frLae?titia DupuchUniversite?
Toulouse III Paul SabatierFrancelaetitia1dupuch@hotmail.comThierry HamonLIM&BIO (EA3969) UFR SMBHUniversite?
Paris 13, Francethierry.hamon@univ-paris13.frNatalia GrabarCNRS UMR 8163 STLUniversite?
Lille 1&359653 Villeneuve d?Ascq, Francenatalia.grabar@univ-lille3.frAbstractThe identification of semantically similar lin-guistic expressions despite their formal differ-ence is an important task within NLP appli-cations (information retrieval and extraction,terminology structuring...) We propose to de-tect the semantic relatedness between biomed-ical terms from the pharmacovigilance area.Two approaches are exploited: semantic dis-tance within structured resources and termi-nology structuring methods applied to a rawlist of terms.
We compare these methods andstudy their complementarity.
The results areevaluated against the reference pharmacovigi-lance data and manually by an expert.1 IntroductionWhen an automatic system is able to identify thatdifferent linguistic expressions convey the same orsimilar meanings, this is a positive point for severalapplications.
For instance, when documents refer-ring to muscle pain or cephalgia are searched, in-formation retrieval system can also take advantageof the synonyms, like muscle ache or headache, toreturn more relevant documents and in this way toincrease the recall.
This is also a great advantagefor systems designed for instance for text mining,terminology structuring and alignment, or for morespecific tasks such as pharmacovigilance.The pharmacovigilance area covers the identifi-cation of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in orderto improve the vigilance on the health products.Pharmacovigilance reports are traditionally encodedwith normalised terms from the dedicated termi-nologies, such as MedDRA (Medical Dictionary forDrug Regulatory Activities) (Brown et al, 1999).MedDRA is a relatively fine-grained terminologywith nearly 90,000 terms.
This means that a givenpharmacovigilance report can be coded with dif-ferent terms which have close meaning (Feschareket al, 2004), like muscle pain and muscle ache orheadache and cephalgia: although formally differ-ent the terms from these pairs have the same mean-ing.
The difficulty is then to detect their semanticcloseness.
Indeed, if this semantic information isavailable, reports from the phramacovigilance data-banks and mentionning similar adverse events canbe aggregated: the safety signal is intensified andthe safety regulation process is improved.In order to aggregate the pharmacovigilance re-ports, several types of semantic information fromMedDRA are used: (1) different hierarchical levelsof MedDRA between the five levels available; (2)the SMQs (Standardized MedDRA Queries) whichgroup together terms associated to a given medicalcondition such as Acute renal failure, Angioedemaor Embolic and thrombotic events; and (3) specificresources (Bousquet et al, 2005; Iavindrasana et al,2006; Alecu et al, 2008; Jaulent and Alecu, 2009).The SMQs are defined by groups of experts througha long and meticulous work consisting of the man-ual study of the MedDRA structure and of the anal-ysis of the scientific literature (CIOMS, 2004).
84SMQs have been created so far.
They become thegold standard data of the pharmacovigilance area.However, the SMQs currently suffer from the lack ofexhausitivity (Pearson et al, 2009): the set of SMQsis not exhaustive because this is an ongoing work.We assume that automatic approaches can be ex-20ploited to systematize and accelerate the process ofrecruiting the semantically related MedDRA termsand to build the SMQs.
We propose to exploit twoapproaches: methods dedicated to the terminologystructuring and semantic distance approaches.
Wecompare and combine the generated results.
For theevaluation, we compare the results with the existingSMQs and also analyse them manually with an ex-pert.
Our work is different from previous work be-cause we exploit the whole set of the available Med-DRA terms, we apply several methods to cluster theterms and we perform several types of evaluation.2 MaterialWe exploit two kinds of material: material issuedfrom MedDRA and specific to the pharmacovigi-lance area (sections 2.1 and 2.3), and linguistic re-sources issued from general and biomedical lan-guages (section 2.2).
The MedDRA terms are struc-tured into five hierarchical levels: SOC (System Or-gan Class) terms belong to the first and the high-est level, while LLT (Lowest Level Terms) terms be-long to the fifth and the lowest level.
Terms fromthe fourth level PT (Preferred Terms) are usually ex-ploited for the coding of the pharmacovigilance re-ports.
They are also used for the creation of SMQs.A given PT term may belong to several SMQs.2.1 Ontology ontoEIMontoEIM is an ontology of ADRs (Alecu et al,2008) created through the projection of MedDRAto SNOMED CT (Stearns et al, 2001).
This projec-tion is performed thanks to the UMLS (NLM, 2011),where an important number of terminologies are al-ready merged and aligned, among which MedDRAand SNOMED CT.
The current rate of alignment ofthe PT MedDRA terms with SNOMED CT is weak(version 2011): 51.3% (7,629 terms).
Projection ofMedDRA to SNOMED CT allows to improve therepresentation of the MedDRA terms:?
the structure of the MedDRA terms is parallelto that of SNOMED CT, which makes it morefine-grained (Alecu et al, 2008).
The num-ber of hierarchical levels within the ontoEIMreaches 14, instead of five levels in MedDRA;?
the MedDRA terms receive formal defini-tions: semantic primitives which decomposethe meaning.
MedDRA terms can be describedalong up to four axes from SNOMED CT, ex-emplified here through the term Arsenical ker-atosis: (1) Morphology (type of abnormal-ity): Squamous cell neoplasm; (2) Topogra-phy (anatomical localization): Skin structure;(3) Causality (agent or cause of the abnormal-ity): Arsenic AND OR arsenic compound; and(4) Expression (manifestation of the abnormal-ity): Abnormal keratinization.
The formal def-initions are not complete.
For instance, only12 terms receive formal definitions along thesefour axes and 435 along three axes.
This is dueto the incomplete alignment of the MedDRAterms and to the fact these four elements arenot relevant for every term (their absence is notalways problematic).2.2 Linguistic resourcesLinguistic resources provide three kinds of pairsof synonym words: (1) Medical synonyms ex-tracted from the UMLS 2011AA (n=228,542) andthen cleaned up (n=73,093); (2) Medical syn-onyms acquired from three biomedical terminolo-gies thanks to the exploitation of their composition-ality (Grabar and Hamon, 2010) (n=28,691); (3)Synonyms from the general language provided byWordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) (n=45,782).
Amongthe pairs of words recorded in these resources, wecan find {accord, concordance}, {aceperone, ac-etabutone}, {adenazole, tocladesine}, {adrenaline,epinephrine} or {bleeding, hemorrhage}.
The lasttwo pairs are provided by medical and general re-sources.
However, the pair {accord, concordance}is provided only by medical resources.2.3 Standardized MedDRA QueriesWe exploit 84 SMQs as reference data.
Among theseSMQs, we distinguish 20 SMQs which are struc-tured hierarchically.
We also exploit 92 sub-SMQs,which compose these 20 hierarchical SMQs.3 MethodsOur method consists into four main steps (figure 1):(1) computing of the semantic distance and similar-ity between the MedDRA terms and their cluster-ing (section 3.1), (2) the application of the termi-nology structuring methods to acquire semantic re-21Abdominal abscessAbdominal cavityTAbscess morphologyMPharyngal abscessMNeck structureT.......................................1ooo65o 2o 3o74oPOS?taggingSyntactic analysisDetection ofhierarchical relationsDetection ofsynonymy relationsontoEIM resource (Zhong et al 2002)(Leacock & Chodorow, 1998)Computing of the semantic distance Clustering of MedDRA termsand similarityTerm structuringLexical inclusionSynoterm + resourcesGenia taggerOgmios platformYaTeAPre?processingMerging oftheclustersClustering within directed graphsEvaluationRadiusHAC (with the R project)SMQsHierarchical SMQssub?SMQsSemantic distance and similarity approachesTerminology structuring approach(Rada et al 1989)Strongly connected componentsFasterFasterRaw list ofMedDRAtermsFigure 1: General schema of the experiment composed of four steps: (1) semantic distance approaches, (2) terminologystructuring approaches, (3) their combination and (4) their evaluationlations between MedDRA terms and their cluster-ing (section 3.2), (3) the merging of these two setsof clusters (section 3.3), (4) the evaluation of themerged clusters (section 3.4).
We exploit Perl lan-guage, R1 project and several NLP tools.3.1 Semantic distance approachThe semantic distance and similarity approach is ap-plied to the 7,629 PT MedDRA terms and their for-mal definitions from ontoEIM.
The two main stepsare: computing the distance or similarity (section3.1.1) and clustering of terms (section 3.1.2).3.1.1 Computing the semantic distanceBecause we work with a tree-structured resource,we exploit edge-based algorithms to compute thedistance or similarity between two terms t1 and t2:two semantic distances (Rada (Rada et al, 1989)and Zhong (Zhong et al, 2002)) and one seman-tic similarity (Leacock and Chodorow, 1998).
Inthe following, we call them semantic distance al-gorithms.
For each algorithm, three paths may beexploited: between the MedDRA terms but also be-tween the elements of their formal definitions ontwo axes (morphology M and topography T ofteninvolved in diagnostics (Spackman and Campbell,1http://www.r-project.org1998)).
For the illustration, let?s consider two Med-DRA terms, Abdominal abscess and Pharyngeal ab-scess defined as follows:?
Abdominal abscess: M = Abscess morphology,T = Abdominal cavity structure?
Pharyngeal abscess: M = Abscess morphol-ogy, T = Neck structureThe shortest paths sp are computed between thesetwo MedDRA terms and between their formal defi-nitions, whose hierarchical structure is also inheritedfrom SNOMED CT.
The weight of edges is set to 1because all the relations are of the same kind (hier-archical), and the value of each shortest path corre-sponds to the sum of the weights of all its edges.
Thesemantic distance sd are then exploited to computethe unique distance between the ADR terms fromMedDRA:?i?
{ADR,M,T}Wi ?
sdi(t1, t2)?i?
{ADR,M,T}Wi, where thethree axes {ADR,M, T} respectively correspondto terms meaning the ADR, axis Morphology Mand axis Topography T ; t1 and t2 are two ADRterms; Wi is the coefficient associated with eachof the three axes; and sdi is the semantic distancecomputed on a given axis.
We carry out several ex-22headcomponent componentexpansion headcomponent componentexpansionpain muscle ache muscleFigure 2: Syntactically analyzed terms (muscle pain and muscle ache) into their head and expansion componentsperiments.
Semi-matrices 7629*7629 with semanticdistance between the terms are built.3.1.2 Clustering of termsAn unsupervised creation of clusters is applied tothe semi-matrices.
We exploit two approaches:?
R radius approach: every MedDRA term isconsidered a possible center of a cluster and itsclosest terms are clustered with it.
The thresh-olds tested correspond to the following inter-vals: 2 and 3 for Rada, [0; 5.059] for LCH and[0; 0.49] for Zhong.
The intersection of theseclusters is not empty.?
HAC hierarchical ascendant classification isperformed through the R Project tools (hclustfunction).
Iteratively, this function chooses thebest centers for terms and builds the hierar-chy of terms by progressively clustering thosewhich are closest to these centers.
Then theunique cluster with all the terms is split up.Several splitting values between 100 and 7,000are tested.
These clusters are exclusive.Clusters created with the radius approach aremerged in order to eliminate smaller clusters in-cluded in bigger clusters and in order to aggregateclusters which have an important intersection be-tween them.
For the intersection, we test several in-tersection values within the interval [10; 90], whichmeans that two compared clusters may have between10% and 90% of common terms.3.2 Terminology structuring approachThe terminology structuring methods are applied toa raw list of 18,209 MedDRA PTs.
They allowthe detection of semantic relations between theseterms.
The POS-tagging is done with Genia tag-ger (Tsuruoka et al, 2005) and the syntactic analy-sis with the YATEA parser (Aubin and Hamon, 2006).Three kinds of methods are applied for the acquisi-tion of synonymy and hierarchical relations: lexicalinclusions (section 3.2.1), morpho-syntactic variants(section 3.2.2) and compositionality (section 3.2.3).The terms are then clustered (section 3.2.4).3.2.1 Lexical inclusion and hierarchyThe lexical inclusion hypothesis (Kleiber andTamba, 1990), which states that when a given termis lexically included at the head syntactic positionin another term there is a semantic subsumption be-tween them, allows to identify hierarchical relationsbetween terms.
For instance, on figure 2, the shortterm pain is the hierarchical parent and the long termmuscle pain is its hierarchical child because pain isthe syntactic head of muscle pain.
The lexical inclu-sions are computed on POS-tagged and syntacticallyanalyzed terms.
We compute two kinds of lexical in-clusions:?
syntactic dependencies on minimal syntacticheads: the parent term corresponds to the short-est lexical form of the syntactic head.
For in-stance, within the term kaolin cephalin clottingtime, the minimal head is time;?
syntactic dependencies on maximal syntacticheads: the parent term is the most complete lex-ical form of the syntactic head.
Within the sameterm kaolin cephalin clotting time, the maximalhead is cephalin clotting time.Parent and child terms have to be MedDRA terms.3.2.2 Morpho-syntactic variantsWe exploit Faster (Jacquemin, 1996) for the in-dentification of morpho-syntactic variants betweenthe PT terms.
This tool applies several transforma-tion rules, such as insertion (cardiac disease/cardiacvalve disease), morphological derivation (arteryrestenosis/arterial restenosis) or permutation (aortacoarctation/coarctation of the aorta).
Each transfor-mation rule is associated with hierarchical or syn-onymy relations: the insertion introduces a hierar-chical relation (cardiac valve disease is more spe-cific than cardiac disease), while the permutation in-troduces a synonymy relation.
When several trans-formations are involved, the detected relations may23be ambiguous: gland abscess and abscess of sali-vary gland combines permutation (synonymy) andinsertion (hierarchy) rules.
In such cases the hierar-chical relation prevails.3.2.3 Compositionality and synonymyThe synonymy relations are acquired in two ways.First, the synonymy relation is established betweentwo simple MedDRA terms if this relation is pro-vided by the linguitistic resources.
Second, theidentification of synonym relations between com-plex terms relies on the semantic compositionality(Partee, 1984).
Hence, two complex terms are con-sidered synonyms if at least one of their compo-nents at the same syntactic position (head or ex-pansion) are synonyms.
For instance, on figure 2,given the synonymy relation between the two wordspain and ache, the terms muscle pain and muscleache are also identified as synonyms (Hamon andNazarenko, 2001).
Three transformation rules areapplied: on the head component (figure 2), on theexpansion component and on both of them.
We per-form several experiments: each medical synonymyresource is first used individually and then in com-bination with WordNet.3.2.4 Clustering of termsThe sets of terms related through the lexical in-clusions are considered as directed graphs: the termsare the nodes of the graph while the hierarchical re-lations are the directed edges.
We partition these di-rected graphs and identify clusters of terms whichcould correspond to or be part of the SMQs.
Amongconnected components and strongly connected com-ponents, we choose to generate the strongly con-nected components: they allow an intersection be-tween clusters which means that a given term maybelong to several clusters (this is also the case withthe SMQs).
Thus, within the directed graphs G wehave to identify the maximal sub-graphs H of Gwhere for each pair {x, y} of the nodes from H ,there exists a directed edge from x to y (or from y tox).
To improve the coverage of the obtained clusters,we also add the synonyms: if a term has a synonymyrelation with the term from a cluster then this termis also included in this cluster.
From a graph theorypoint of view, the initial graph is augmented withtwo edges going from and to the synonyms.Methods and relationships #relationsHierarchical relationsMaximal syntactic head 3,366Minimal syntactic head 3,816Morpho-syntactic variants 743Medical synonyms3 biomedical terminologies 1,879UMLS/Filtered UMLS 190Morpho-syntactic variants 100Medical synonyms and WordNet3 biomedical terminologies 1,939UMLS/Filtered UMLS 227Table 1: Hierarchical and synonymy relations generatedby terminology structuring methods3.3 Merging of clusters from two approachesWe merge the clusters generated by the two ap-proaches.
The merging is performed on the inter-section between the clusters.
As previously, we testintersection values within the interval [10; 90].3.4 EvaluationWe give judgments on: (1) the correctness of thegenerated relations, (2) their relevance according tothe reference data, (3) their relevance according tothe manual evaluation by an expert.
The evaluationis performed with three measures: precision P (per-centage of the relevant terms clustered divided bythe total number of the clustered terms), recall R(percentage of the relevant terms clustered dividedby the number of terms in the corresponding SMQ)and F-measure F1.
The association between theSMQs and the clusters relies on the best F1.4 ResultsSemantic relations acquired with terminology struc-turing are indicated in table 1.
There is a smalldifference between relations acquired through maxi-mal and minimal syntactic heads, although the influ-ence of medical resources for the acquisition of syn-onymy varies according to the resources.
WordNetslightly increases the number of synonyms.
Fastergenerates a large set of hierarchical and synonymyrelations.
MedDRA terms have also been processedwith semantic distance and clustered.
The bestthresholds with the radius clustering are 2 for Rada,24Approach Hierarchical SMQs SMQs and sub-SMQs#clusters interval mean #clusters interval meanSemantic distance 2,667 [2; 1,206] 73 2,931 [2; 546] 17Structuring (hierarchical) 690 [1; 134] 3.69 748 [1; 117] 3.43Structuring (hierarchical+synonymy) 690 [1; 136] 4.11 748 [1; 119] 3.82Merging (hierarchical) 2,732 [1; 1,220] 72.40 2,998 [1; 563] 24.44Merging (hierarchical+synonymy) 2,732 [1; 1,269] 75.94 2,998 [1; 594] 26.03Table 2: Number of clusters and their size (the interval and the mean number of terms per cluster) for individualapproaches and for their merging computed for hierarchical SMQs and also for SMQs and sub-SMQs0204060801000  10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80precisionrecallf?measure(a) Semantic distance0204060801000  10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80precisionrecallf?measure(b) Terminology structuringFigure 3: Results (precision, recall and F-measure) for semantic distance and terminology structuring approaches4.10 for LCH and 0 for Zhong.
With the HAC, thebest results are obtained with 300 classes (number ofterms per class is within the interval [1; 98], meannumber of terms per class is 25.34).
Our resultsshow that the best parameters for the semantic dis-tance are the Rada distance, radius approach and noformal definitions, while the best parameters for theterminology structuring are maximal syntactic headwith hierarchical relations by Faster augmented withsynonyms.
For the merging of the clusters we apply50% intersection for hierarchical SMQs and 80% in-tersection for SMQs and sub-SMQs.
We exploit anddiscuss these results.
The percentage of the Med-DRA terms involved by the terminology structur-ing is the 32% with hierarchical relations, it reaches40% when the synonymy is also considered.
Withsemantic distance, all the terms from ontoEIM (51%of the MedDRA) are used.Table 2 provides information on clusters: num-ber of clusters, number of terms per cluster (theirinterval and the mean number of terms per cluster).In table 2, we first indicate the results for the indi-vidual approaches, and then when the merging ofthe approaches is performed.
We observe that themerging has a positive effect on the number and thesize of clusters: data generated by the individual ap-proaches (and by synonymy) are complementary.4.1 Correctness of the semantic relationsA manual analysis of the generated hierarchical re-lations indicates that these relations are always cor-rect: the constraint involved through the syntac-tic analysis guarantees correct propositions.
Nev-ertheless, we observed a small number of syntac-tic ambiguities.
They appear within 144 pairs (5%)with maximal syntactic heads and correspond topairs like: {anticonvulsant drug level, drug level},{blood smear test, smear test}, {eye movement dis-order, movement disorder}.
Thus, within the first250204060801000  10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80precisionrecallf?measureFigure 4: Results (precision, recall and F-measure) ob-tained when the two approaches are mergedpair, there is an ambiguity on drug as two de-pendencies seem possible: {anticonvulsant druglevel, drug level} as proposed by the system and{anticonvulsant drug level, level}.
But whatever thesyntactic analysis performed, the semantic relationsare correct.4.2 Relevance of the generated clustersFigures 3 and 4 provide quantitative evaluation ofthe clusters: semantic distance (figure 3(a)), termi-nology structuring (figure 3(b)), merging of thesetwo sets (figure 4).
On figure 3, we can observethat there is a great variability among the SMQs andthe two approaches.
The positive result is that theseapproaches are indeed complementary: their merg-ing slightly increases performance.
An analysis ofthe clusters generated with terminology structuringshows that: (1) hierarchical relations form the basisof the clusters: they correspond to 96% of the in-volved terms and show 69% precision.
Only threeclusters do not contain hierarchical relations; (2)Faster relations are involved in 50% of clusters andshow precision between 75 and 85%; (3) one thirdof the clusters contains synonymy relations, whichprecision varies between 55 and 69%; (4) relationsacquired with the UMLS resources are involved in14% of clusters while their precision is only 38%.We also performed a detailed qualitative analysisof several SMQs and clusters with an expert.
Table 3presents the analysis for three SMQs: Angioedema,Embolic and thrombotic events, arterial and Haemo-dynamic oedema, effusions and fluid overload.
Itindicates the number of terms in the SMQ and inthe corresponding clusters clu, as well as the num-ber of common terms between them com and theperformance (precision P , recall R and F-measureF ) when computed against the reference data Ref-erence and also after the analysis performed by theexpert After expertise.
The results obtained withthe two approaches are indicated: semantic dis-tance sd and terminology structuring struc, as wellas their merging merg.
In the colums Reference,we can observe that the best F-measure values areobtained with the terminology structuring methodfor the SMQ Haemodynamic oedema, effusions andfluid overload (F=45) and with the semantic distancefor the SMQ Embolic and thrombotic events, arte-rial (F=32).
The merging of the two methods sys-tematically improves the results: in the given exam-ples, for all three SMQs.A detailed analysis of the generated noise indi-cates that across the SMQs we have similar situa-tions: we generate false positives (terms non rele-vant for the medical conditions, such as Pulmonaryoedema, Gestational oedema, Spinal cord oedemafor the SMQ Angioedema), but also the SMQs maycontain non relevant terms or may miss relevantterms (thus, Testicular oedema, Injection site ur-ticaria, Bronchial eodema are missing in the SMQAngioedema).
The expert evaluation (columns Af-ter expertise in table 3) attempts to analyse also thequality of the SMQs.
The corrected performanceof the clusters is improved in several points, whichindicates that automatic approaches may provide auseful basis for the creation of SMQs.5 DiscussionDespite the incompleteness of the ontoEIM re-source, the semantic distance approach is quite ef-ficient and provides the core terms for the buildingof the SMQs.
Among the several algorithms tested,the most simple algorithm (Rada et al, 1989), whichexploits the shortest path, leads to the best results,while the additional information on the hierarchi-cal depth exploited by other algorithms appears nonuseful.
The clustering method which allows the gen-eration of non-disjoint clusters is the most efficientas MedDRA terms may belong to several SMQs.26Number of terms Reference After expertiseSMQs SMQ clu com P R F P R FAngioedemasd 52 32 13 40 25 30 43 26 33Angioedemastruc 52 31 19 61 36 45 61 36 45Angioedemamerg 52 33 21 63 42 50 71 48 57Embolic and thrombotic events...sd 132 159 48 30 36 32 32 39 35.2Embolic and thrombotic events...struc 132 13 12 92 9 16 92 9 16Embolic and thrombotic events...merg 132 130 49 38 37 37.5 47 46 46.5Haemodynamic oedema, effusions...sd 36 22 7 32 20 24 54 33 41Haemodynamic oedema, effusions...struc 36 31 13 42 36 39 84 72 78Haemodynamic oedema, effusions...merg 36 35 16 46 44 45 86 83 84.5Table 3: Comparison between the two approaches (semantic distance sd and terminology structuring struc) and themerging of the two approaches merg for three SMQs: Angioedema, Embolic and thrombotic events, arterial andHaemodynamic oedema, effusions and fluid overloadTraditionnal classification methods, which producedisjoint clusters, are less efficient for this task.It has been surprising to observe that the contri-bution of the generated hierarchical relations is soimportant (table 1) and that these relations appear tobe so often correct for the creation of SMQs.
In-deed, because PT terms belong to the same hierar-chical level of MedDRA, they should be hierarchi-cally equivalent between them.
In reality, within acluster, we can find several hierarchical levels of thePT terms.
This means that the hierarchical structureof MedDRA could be more fine-grained and that in-termediate hierarchical levels could be created.
Asfor the generated synonymy relations, their numberis low and they contribute in a lesser way to thebuilding of the clusters: this means that the PTs aresemantically differentiated between them.Finally, the merging of these two approaches isbeneficial for the generation of clusters: the per-formance is improved, although slightly.
The twoapproaches provide indeed complementary results.The low recall and F-measure are due to the materialand methods exploited: ontoEIM contains only 51%of the MedDRA terms to be processed while the ex-ploited terminology structuring methods are not ableto detect more common features between the terms.The difference between the results obtainedagainst the reference data and after the expert eval-uation (table 3) show that the reference data are notvery precise.
In previous work, it has already beenobserved that some important PT terms can be miss-ing in the SMQs (Pearson et al, 2009).
With theproposed automatic methods we could find some ofthese terms.
It has been also demonstrated that theSMQs are over-inclusive (Mozzicato, 2007; Pear-son et al, 2009).
In the proposed analysis of theSMQs, we have also found terms which have toolarge meaning and which should not be included inthe SMQs.6 Conclusion and PerspectivesWe have applied two different approaches to theclustering of pharmacovigilance terms with simi-lar or close meaning.
We performed a comparisonof the results obtained with these two approachesand analysed their complementarity.
Several experi-ments have been carried out in order to test differentparameters which may influence the performance ofthe methods.
Although the automatic creation of theSMQs is a difficult task, our results seem to indi-cate that the automatic methods may be used as abasis for the creation of new SMQs.
The precisionof the clusters is often satisfactory, while their merg-ing leads to the improvement of their completeness.These approaches generate complementary data andtheir combination provides more performant results.Future studies will lead to the identification ofother parameters which influence the quality of clus-ters and also other factors which may be exploitedfor the merging of clusters.
More robust distancesand clustering methods will also be used in futurework, as well as approaches for a better acquisi-27tion and evaluation of the hierarchical structure ofSMQs.
We plan also to design corpora-based meth-ods which may also to increase the recall of the re-sults.
We will perform an exhaustive analysis of thenature of semantic relations which can be observedwithin the SMQs and propose other methods to fur-ther improve the coverage of the clusters.
Differentfilters will be tested to remove the true false posi-tive relations between terms.
The results will alsobe evaluation by several experts, which will allow toassess the inter-expert variation and its influence onthe results.
Besides, the obtained clusters will alsobe evaluated through their impact on the pharma-covigilance tasks and through the exploring of thepharmacovigilance databases.ReferencesI Alecu, C Bousquet, and MC Jaulent.
2008.
A casereport: using snomed ct for grouping adverse drug re-actions terms.
BMC Med Inform Decis Mak, 8(1):4?4.S Aubin and T Hamon.
2006.
Improving term extrac-tion with terminological resources.
In FinTAL 2006,number 4139 in LNAI, pages 380?387.
Springer.C Bousquet, C Henegar, A Lillo-Le Loue?t, P Degoulet,and MC Jaulent.
2005.
Implementation of auto-mated signal generation in pharmacovigilance using aknowledge-based approach.
Int J Med Inform, 74(7-8):563?71.EG Brown, L Wood, and S Wood.
1999.
The medicaldictionary for regulatory activities (MedDRA).
DrugSaf., 20(2):109?17.CIOMS.
2004.
Development and rational use of stan-dardised MedDRA queries (SMQs): Retrieving ad-verse drug reactions with MedDRA.
Technical report,CIOMS.C Fellbaum.
1998.
A semantic network of english: themother of all WordNets.
Computers and Humanities.EuroWordNet: a multilingual database with lexical se-mantic network, 32(2-3):209?220.R Fescharek, J Ku?bler, U Elsasser, M Frank, andP Gu?thlein.
2004.
Medical dictionary for regulatoryactivities (MedDRA): Data retrieval and presentation.Int J Pharm Med, 18(5):259?269.N Grabar and T Hamon.
2010.
Exploitation of linguis-tic indicators for automatic weighting of synonymsinduced within three biomedical terminologies.
InMEDINFO 2010, pages 1015?9.T Hamon and A Nazarenko.
2001.
Detection of syn-onymy links between terms: experiment and results.In Recent Advances in Computational Terminology,pages 185?208.
John Benjamins.J Iavindrasana, C Bousquet, P Degoulet, and MC Jaulent.2006.
Clustering WHO-ART terms using semanticdistance and machine algorithms.
In AMIA Annu SympProc, pages 369?73.Christian Jacquemin.
1996.
A symbolic and surgical ac-quisition of terms through variation.
In S. Wermter,E.
Riloff, and G. Scheler, editors, Connectionist, Sta-tistical and Symbolic Approaches to Learning for Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 425?438, Springer.MC Jaulent and I Alecu.
2009.
Evaluation of an ontolog-ical resource for pharmacovigilance.
In Stud HealthTechnol Inform, pages 522?6.G Kleiber and I Tamba.
1990.
L?hyperonymie revisite?e :inclusion et hie?rarchie.
Langages, 98:7?32, juin.C Leacock and M Chodorow, 1998.
Combining localcontext and WordNet similarity for word sense iden-tification, chapter 4, pages 305?332.P Mozzicato.
2007.
Standardised MedDRA queries:their role in signal detection.
Drug Saf, 30(7):617?9.NLM, 2011.
UMLS Knowledge Sources Manual.
Na-tional Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland.www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/.Barbara H. Partee.
1984.
Compositionality.
In F. Land-man and F. Veltman, editors, Varieties of formal se-mantics.
Foris, Dordrecht.RK Pearson, M Hauben, DI Goldsmith, AL Gould,D Madigan, DJ O?Hara, SJ Reisinger, andAM Hochberg.
2009.
Influence of the Med-DRA hierarchy on pharmacovigilance data miningresults.
Int J Med Inform, 78(12):97?103.R Rada, H Mili, E Bicknell, and M Blettner.
1989.
De-velopment and application of a metric on semanticnets.
IEEE Transactions on systems, man and cyber-netics, 19(1):17?30.K Spackman and K Campbell.
1998.
Composi-tional concept representation using SNOMED: To-wards further convergence of clinical terminologies.In Journal of American Medical Informatics Associ-ation (JAMIA), pages 740?744.MQ Stearns, C Price, KA Spackman, and AY Wang.2001.
SNOMED clinical terms: overview of the de-velopment process and project status.
In AMIA, pages662?666.Y Tsuruoka, Y Tateishi, JD Kim, T Ohta, J McNaught,S Ananiadou, and J Tsujii.
2005.
Developing a ro-bust part-of-speech tagger for biomedical text.
LNCS,3746:382?392.J Zhong, H Zhu, J Li, and Y Yu.
2002.
Concep-tual graph matching for semantic search.
In 10thInternational Conference on Conceptual Structures,ICCS2002, LNCS 2393, Springer Verlag, pages 92?106.28
