Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Deception Detection, pages 72?77,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsPastiche detection based on stopword rankings.
Exposing impersonatorsof a Romanian writerLiviu P. DinuFaculty of Mathematicsand Computer ScienceUniversity of Bucharestldinu@fmi.unibuc.roVlad NiculaeFaculty of Mathematicsand Computer ScienceUniversity of Bucharestvlad@vene.roOctavia-Maria S, uleaFaculty of Foreign Languagesand LiteraturesFaculty of Mathematicsand Computer ScienceUniversity of Bucharestmary.octavia@gmail.comAbstractWe applied hierarchical clustering usingRank distance, previously used in compu-tational stylometry, on literary texts writtenby Mateiu Caragiale and a number of dif-ferent authors who attempted to imperson-ate Caragiale after his death, or simply tomimic his style.
Their pastiches were con-sistently clustered opposite to the originalwork, thereby confirming the performanceof the method and proposing an extensionof the method from simple authorship attri-bution to the more complicated problem ofpastiche detection.The novelty of our work is the use of fre-quency rankings of stopwords as features,showing that this idea yields good resultsfor pastiche detection.1 IntroductionThe postulated existence of the human stylomehas been thoroughly studied with encouraging re-sults.
The term stylome, which is currently not inany English dictionaries, was recently defined asa linguistic fingerprint which can be measured, islargely unconscious, and is constant (van Halterenet al, 2005).Closely related to the problem of authorshipattribution lies the pastiche detection problem,where the fundamental question is: Can the hu-man stylome be faked in order to trick authorshipattribution methods?
There are situations wherecertain authors or journalists have tried to passtheir own work as written by someone else.
Asimilar application is in forensics, where an im-personator is writing letters or messages and sign-ing with someone else?s name, especially online.It is important to note that sometimes pastichesare not intended to deceive, but simply as an ex-ercise in mimicking another?s style.
Even in thiscase, the best confirmation that the author of thepastiche can get is if he manages to fool an au-thorship attribution algorithm, even if the groundtruth is known and there is no real question aboutit.Marcus (1989) identifies the following four sit-uation in which text authorship is disputed:?
A text attributed to one author seems non-homogeneous, lacking unity, which raisesthe suspicion that there may be more thanone author.
If the text was originally at-tributed to one author, one must establishwhich fragments, if any, do not belong tohim, and who are their real authors.?
A text is anonymous.
If the author of a textis unknown, then based on the location, timeframe and cultural context, we can conjec-ture who the author may be and test this hy-pothesis.?
If based on certain circumstances, arisingfrom literature history, the paternity is dis-puted between two possibilities, A and B, wehave to decide if A is preferred to B, or theother way around.?
Based on literary history information, a textseems to be the result of the collaboration oftwo authors, an ulterior analysis should es-tablish, for each of the two authors, their cor-responding text fragments.We situate ourselves in a case similar to thethird, but instead of having to choose between twoauthors, we are asking whether a group of textswere indeed written by the claimed author or bysomeone else.
Ideally, we would take samples au-thored by every possible impersonator and run a72multi-class classifier in order to estimate the prob-ability that the disputed work is written by themor by the asserted author.
Such a method can giveresults if we know who the impersonator can be,but most of the time that information is not avail-able, or the number of possible impersonators isintractabally large.In the case of only one impersonator, the prob-lem can simply be stated as authorship attribu-tion with a positive or a negative answer.
How-ever, when there are a number of people sepa-rately writing pastiches of one victim?s style, theextra information can prove beneficial in an unsu-pervised learning sense.
In this paper we analyzethe structure induced by the Rank Distance metricusing frequencies of stopwords as features, previ-ously applied for authorship attribution, on sucha sample space.
The assumption is that tryingto fake someone else?s stylome will induce someconsistent bias so that new impersonators can becaught using features from other pastiche authors.2 The successors of Mateiu CaragialeMateiu Caragiale, one of the most important Ro-manian novelists, died in 1936, at the age of 51,leaving behind an unfinished novel, Sub peceteatainei.
Some decades later, in the 70?s, a rumoragitated the Romanian literary world: it seemedthat the ending of the novel had been found.
Afew human experts agreed that the manuscript isin concordance with Mateiu?s style, and in thenext months almost everybody talked about thehuge finding.
However, it was suspicious thatthe writer who claimed the discovery, Radu Al-bala, was considered by the critics to be one ofthe closest stylistic followers of Mateiu Caragiale.When the discussions regarding the mysteriousfinding reached a critical mass, Albala publicallyput a stop to them, by admitting that he him-self had written the ending as a challenge - hewanted to see how well he could deceive the pub-lic into thinking the text in question was writtenby Mateiu himself.Other authors attempted to write different end-ings to the novel, but without claiming Caragiale?spaternity, like Albala did.
Around the same time,Eugen Ba?lan also set to continue the unfinishednovel, as a stylistic exercise.
He addressed a sep-arate storyline than Albala?s.
Later, AlexandruGeorge also attempted to finish the novel, claim-ing that his ending is the best.
Unfortunatelythere is only one copy of George?s work, and wecouldn?t obtain it for this study.In 2008, Ion Iovan published the so-called LastNotes of Mateiu Caragiale, composed of sectionswritten from Iovan?s voice, and another sectionin the style of a personal diary describing the lifeof Mateiu Caragiale, suggesting that this is reallyCaragiale?s diary.
This was further strengthenedby the fact that a lot of phrases from the diarywere copied word for word from Mateiu Cara-giale?s novels, therefore pushing the style towardsCaragiale?s.
However, this was completely a workof fiction, the diary having been admittedly imag-ined and written by Iovan.Another noteworthy case is the author S?tefanAgopian.
He never attempted to continue MateiuCaragiale?s novel, but critics consider him one ofhis closest stylistic successors.
Even though notreally a pastiche, we considered worth investigat-ing how such a successor relates to the imperson-ators.3 Simple visual comparisonsThe pioneering methods of Mendenhall (Menden-hall, 1901) on the subject of authorship attribu-tion, even though obsolete by today?s standards,can be used to quickly examine at a glance the dif-ferences between the authors, from certain pointsof view.
The Mendenhall plot, showing frequencyversus word length, does not give an objective cri-terion to attribute authorship, but as an easy to cal-culate statistic, it can motivate further research ona specific attribution problem.A further critique to Mendenhall?s method isthat different distributions of word length are notnecessary caused by individual stylome but ratherby the genre or the theme of the work.
This canfurther lead to noisy distributions in case of ver-satile authors, whereas the stylome is supposed tobe stable.Even so, the fact that Mateiu Caragiale?sMendenhall distribution has its modes consis-tently in a different position than the others, sug-gests that the styles are different, but it appearsthat Caragiale?s successors have somewhat simi-lar distributions.
This can be seen in figure 3.
Inorder to evaluate the questions How different, howsimilar?, and to make a more objective judgementon authorship attribution, we resort to pairwisedistance-based methods.73(a) Mateiu Caragiale (b) S?tefan Agopian(c) Radu Albala (d) Ion IovanFigure 1: Mendenhall plots: frequency distribution of word lengths, showing similarities between the otherauthors, but differences between them and Mateiu Caragiale.s?i ?
?n sa?
se cu o la nu a ce mai din pe un ca?
ca ma?
fi care era lui fa?ra?
ne pentru el ar dar?
?l tot am mi ??nsa?
?
?ntr cum ca?nd toate al aa dupa?
pa?na?
deca?t ei nici numai daca?
eu aveafost le sau spre unde unei atunci mea prin ai ata?t au chiar cine iar noi sunt acum aleare asta cel fie fiind peste aceasta?
a cele face fiecare nimeni ??nca?
?
?ntre aceasta aceeaacest acesta acestei avut ceea ca?t da fa?cut noastra?
poate acestui alte celor cineva ca?trelor unui alta?
at?i dintre doar foarte unor va?
aceste astfel avem avet?i cei ci deci estesuntem va vom vor deTable 1: The 120 stopwords extracted as the most fre-quent words in the corpus.In order to speak of distances, we need to rep-resent the samples (the novels) as points in a met-ric space.
Using the idea that stopword frequen-cies are a significant component of the stylome,and one that is difficult to fake (Chung and Pen-nebaker, 2007), we first represented each workas a vector of stopword frequencies, where thestopwords are chosen to be the most frequentwords from all the concatenated documents.
Thestopwords can be seen in table 1.
Another use-ful visualisation method is the Principal Compo-nents Analysis, which gives us a projection froma high-dimensional space into a low-dimensionalone, in this case in 2D.
Using this stopword fre-quency representation, the first principal compo-nents plane looks like figure 3.4 Distances and clusteringIn (Popescu and Dinu, 2008), the use of rankingsinstead of frequencies is proposed as a smoothingmethod and it is shown to give good results forcomputational stylometry.
A ranking is simply anordering of items; in this case, the representationof each document is the ranking of the stopwordsin that particular document.
The fact that a spe-cific function word has the rank 2 (is the secondmost frequent word) in one text and has the rank 4(is the fourth most frequent word) in another textcan be more directly relevant than the fact that therespective word appears 349 times in the first textand only 299 times in the second.Rank distance (Dinu, 2003) is an ordinal metricable to compare different rankings of a set of ob-jects.
In the general case, Rank distance works for74Figure 2: Principal components plot.
Works are colour coded like in figure 3.
The cluster on the left consistsonly of novels by Mateiu Caragiale.
Individual authors seem to form subclusters in the right cluster.rankings where the support set is different (for ex-ample, if a stopword would completely be missingfrom a text).
When this is not the case, we havethe following useful property:A ranking of a set of n objects is a mapping?
: {1, 2, ..., n} ?
{1, 2, ..., n} where ?
(i) willrepresent the place (rank) of the object indexed asi such that if ?
(q) < ?
(p) word q is more frequentthan word p. The Rank distance in this case issimply the distance induced by L1 norm on thespace of vector representations of permutations:D(?1, ?2) =n?i=1|?1(i)?
?2(i)| (1)This is a distance between what is called full rank-ings.
However, in real situations, the problem oftying arises, when two or more objects claim thesame rank (are ranked equally).
For example, twoor more function words can have the same fre-quency in a text and any ordering of them wouldbe arbitrary.The Rank distance allocates to tied objects anumber which is the average of the ranks the tiedobjects share.
For instance, if two objects claimthe rank 2, then they will share the ranks 2 and 3and both will receive the rank number (2+3)/2 =2.5.
In general, if k objects will claim the samerank and the first x ranks are already used by otherobjects, then they will share the ranks x + 1, x +2, .
.
.
, x + k and all of them will receive as rankthe number: (x+1)+(x+2)+...+(x+k)k = x +k+12 .In this case, a ranking will be no longer a permu-tation (?
(i) can be a non integer value), but theformula (1) will remain a distance (Dinu, 2003).Even though computationally the formula (1)allows us to use the L1 distance we will continueusing the phrase Rank distance to refer to it, in or-der to emphasize that we are measuring distancesbetween rankings of stopwords, not L1 distancesbetween frequency values or anything like that.Hierarchical clustering (Duda et al, 2001) is abottom-up clustering method that starts with themost specific cluster arrangement (one cluster foreach sample) and keeps joining the nearest clus-ters, eventually stopping when reaching either astopping condition or the most general cluster ar-rangement possible (one cluster containing all thesamples).
When joining two clusters, there aremany possible ways to specify the distance be-tween them.
We used complete linkage: the dis-tance between the most dissimilar points from thetwo clusters.
The resulting clustering path, visu-alised a dendrogram, is shown in figure 4.The use of clustering techniques in authorshipattribution problems has been shown useful byLabbe?
and Labbe?
(2006); Luyckx et al (2006).Hierarchical clustering with Euclidean distances75Figure 3: Dendrogram showing the results of hierarchical clustering using the L2 (euclidean) distance.has been used for pastiche detection in (Somersand Tweedie, 2003).
The novelty of our workis the use of rankings as features, and using theL1 distance (equivalent to the Rank distance forthis particular case).
(Somers and Tweedie, 2003)shows how the Euclidean distance clusters mostlyworks by the same author at the finest level, with afew exceptions.
On the data from our problem, weobserved a similar problem.
The Euclidean dis-tance behaves in a less than ideal fasion, joiningsome of Agopian?s works with the cluster formedby the other authors (see figure 3), whereas theRank distance always finds works by the same au-thor the most similar at the leaves level (with theobvious exception of Eugen Ba?lan?s text, becauseit is his only available text).Reading the dendrogram in the reverse order(top to bottom), we see that for k = 2 clusters,one corresponds to Mateiu Caragiale and the otherto all of his successors.
In a little finer-grainedspot, there is a clear cluster of S?tefan Agopian?swork, the (single) text by Eugen Ba?lan, and a jointcluster with Radu Albala and Ion Iovan, whichalso quickly breaks down into the separate au-thors.
The fact that there is no k for which allauthors are clearly separated in clusters can beattributed to the large stylistic variance exhibitedby S?tefan Agopian and Mateiu Caragiale, whoseclusters break down more quickly.These results confirm our intuition that rank-ings of stopwords are more relevant than frequen-cies, when an appropriate metric is used.
Rankdistance is well-suited to this task.
This leads usto believe that if we go back and apply our meth-ods to the texts studies in (Somers and Tweedie,2003), an improvement will be seen, and we in-tend to further look into this.5 ConclusionsWe reiterate that all of the authors used inthe study are considered stylistically similar toMateiu Caragiale by the critics.
Some of theirworks, highlighted on the graph, were either at-tributed to Caragiale (by Albala and Iovan), or in-tended as pastiche works continuing Caragiale?sunfinished novel.A key result is that with this models, all of thesesuccessors prove to be closer to each other than toMateiu Caragiale.
Therefore, when faced with anew problem, we don?t have to seed the systemwith many works from the possible authors (notethat we used a single text by Ba?lan): it sufficesto use as seeds texts by one or more authors whoare stylistically and culturally close to the claimedauthor (in this case, Mateiu Caragiale).
Cluster-ing with an appropriate distance such as Rank dis-76Figure 4: Dendrogram showing the results of hierarchical clustering using L1 distance on stopword rankings(equivalent to Rank distance).tance will unmask the pastiche.ReferencesCindy Chung and James Pennebaker.
The psy-chological functions of function words.
Socialcommunication: Frontiers of social psychol-ogy, pages 343?359, 2007.Liviu Petrisor Dinu.
On the classification and ag-gregation of hierarchies with different consti-tutive elements.
Fundamenta Informaticae, 55(1):39?50, 2003.R.
O. Duda, P. E. Hart, and D. G. Stork.
PatternClassification (2nd ed.).
Wiley-IntersciencePublication, 2001.Cyril Labbe?
and Dominique Labbe?.
A tool forliterary studies: Intertextual distance and treeclassification.
Literary and Linguistic Comput-ing, 21(3):311?326, 2006.Kim Luyckx, Walter Daelemans, and EdwardVanhoutte.
Stylogenetics: Clustering-basedstylistic analysis of literary corpora.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC-2006, the fifth InternationalLanguage Resources and Evaluation Confer-ence, pages 30?35, 2006.Solomon Marcus.
Inventie si descoperire.
Ed.Cartea Romaneasca, Bucuresti, 1989.T C Mendenhall.
A mechanical solution of a liter-ary problem.
Popular Science Monthly, 60(2):97?105, 1901.Marius Popescu and Liviu Petrisor Dinu.
Rankdistance as a stylistic similarity.
In COLING(Posters)?08, pages 91?94, 2008.Harold Somers and Fiona Tweedie.
Authorshipattribution and pastiche.
Computers and theHumanities, 37:407?429, 2003.
ISSN 0010-4817.
10.1023/A:1025786724466.Hans van Halteren, R. Harald Baayen, Fiona J.Tweedie, Marco Haverkort, and Anneke Neijt.New machine learning methods demonstratethe existence of a human stylome.
Journal ofQuantitative Linguistics, pages 65?77, 2005.77
