Proceedings of the 13th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue (SIGDIAL), pages 126?130,Seoul, South Korea, 5-6 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsEstimating Adaptation of Dialogue Partnerswith Different Verbal IntelligenceK.ZablotskayaInst.
of CommunicationsEngineering,University of Ulm, Germanykseniya.zablotskaya@uni-ulm.deF.Ferna?ndez-Mart??nezE.T.S.I.
de Telecomunicac?
?on,Universidad Polite?cnicade Madrid, Spainffm@die.upm.esW.MinkerInst.
of CommunicationsEngineering,University of Ulm, Germanywolfgang.minker@uni-ulm.deAbstractThis work investigates to what degree speak-ers with different verbal intelligence mayadapt to each other.
The work is based ona corpus consisting of 100 descriptions of ashort film (monologues), 56 discussions aboutthe same topic (dialogues), and verbal intelli-gence scores of the test participants.
Adapta-tion between two dialogue partners was mea-sured using cross-referencing, proportion of?I?, ?You?
and ?We?
words, between-subjectcorrelation and similarity of texts.
It wasshown that lower verbal intelligence speak-ers repeated more nouns and adjectives fromthe other and used the same linguistic cat-egories more often than higher verbal in-telligence speakers.
In dialogues betweenstrangers, participants with higher verbal in-telligence showed a greater level of adapta-tion.1 IntroductionWhen two speakers are talking to each other, they tryto adapt to their dialogue partner and synchronizetheir verbal behaviours.
The adaptation may occurat different levels: lexical (Garrod and Anderson,1987; Brennan and Clark, 1996), syntactic (Reitteret al, 2006), acoustic (Ward and Litman, 2007), ar-ticulation (Bard et al, 2000), comprehension (Lev-elt and Kelter, 1982), etc.
Moreover, synchroniza-tion of dialogue partners at one level may cause theadaptation process at any other level (Pickering andGarrod, 2004; Cleland and Pickering, 2003).
In thispaper we analyse to what degree dialogue partnerswith different verbal intelligence and levels of ac-quaintance may adapt to each other during a conver-sation.Verbal intelligence (VI) is ?the ability to analyseinformation and to solve problems using language-based reasoning?
(Logsdon, 2012).
The ability tofind suitable words and expressions may be a greathelp in accomplishing such goals as persuasions, en-couragements, explanations, influence, etc.
More-over, there exists a dependency between an individ-ual?s verbal intelligence level and his or her successin life (Buzan, 2002).The first hypothesis we check in this paper is thatboth lower and higher verbal intelligence speakersare able to adapt to their dialogue partners; how-ever, this adaptation is reflected by different linguis-tic features.The second hypothesis we check in this workis that when higher and lower verbal intelligencespeakers are talking to a stranger, the former onesadapt better to their dialogue partner than the latterones.This investigation may be helpful for improv-ing the user-friendliness of spoken language dia-logue systems.
Systems which automatically adaptto users?
language styles and change their dialoguestrategies may help users to feel free and comfort-able when interacting with them.2 Method2.1 Corpus DescriptionFor the analysis, a corpus containing 100 mono-logues, 56 dialogues and 100 verbal intelligence126scores of the participants was used.
The corpus wascollected at the University of Ulm, Germany.
Allthe participants were German native speakers of dif-ferent genders, ages, educational levels and socialstatus.
For the monologue collection, the partici-pants were shown a short film and were asked todescribe it with their own words.
The candidateswere not asked to follow the language style of thefilm; they were asked to talk as naturally as possi-ble in order to capture their every day conversationstyles.
Each monologue is about 3 minutes long andcontains 370 words on an average.
For the dialoguecollection, the participants were asked to have a 10-minute conversation with another test person.
Thetopic of the discussions was always the same: theeducation system in Germany.
The average num-ber of turns in the dialogues is 55.
Afterwards,verbal intelligence of the candidates was measuredusing the Hamburg Wechsler Intelligence Test forAdults (Wechsler, 1982).
Using this test, we ob-tained verbal intelligence scores of the test personswith a mean value of 113 and a standard deviation of7.2.
A more detailed description of the corpus canbe found in (Zablotskaya et al, 2010; Zablotskayaet al, 2012).2.2 ClusteringUsing the k-means algorithm, the verbal intelligencescores of the test persons were partitioned into:a) 2 clusters (Cluster L consisted of test personswith lower verbal intelligence, H containedcandidates with higher verbal intelligence);b) 3 clusters (L - lower verbal intelligence, M -average verbal intelligence, H - higher verbalintelligence).Using the two clusters L and H, all the dialogueswere partitioned into the following groups:c) L-L is a group of dialogues where both partnershad lower verbal intelligence scores;d) H-H is a group of dialogues where both part-ners had higher verbal intelligence scores;e) L-H is a group of all the other dialogues.Using the information about the level of acquain-tance of the dialogue partners, the following groupswere created:f) F-F is a group of dialogues with dialogue part-ners who were friends or relatives;g) S-S is a group of dialogues with dialogue part-ners who had not met each other before the ex-periment (were strangers).In the following sections the degree of adaptationwill be compared between these groups.3 Measuring AdaptationThere exist different approaches for measuringadaptation of dialogue partners.
Reitter et al (2006)used regression models to show that a speaker inhuman-human interactions aligns his syntactic struc-tures with those of his dialogue partner.
Ward andLitman (2007) modified the measures of conver-gence offered by Reitter.
According to this mod-ification, prime words of the first dialogue part-ner were determined.
For measuring lexical con-vergence, the use of prime words by the seconddialogue partner for each turn was calculated.
In(Nenkova et al, 2008) the measurements of adapta-tion between dialogue partners were based on the us-age of high-frequency words.
Stoyanchev and Stent(2009) analysed adaptation calculating the numberof reused verbs and prepositions by a speaker thatoccurred in his dialogue partner?s turns.In this work we measure adaptation as cross ref-erencing, proportion of ?I?, ?You?
and ?We?
words,between-subject correlation and similarity betweentwo texts.
These approaches are described in the fol-lowing sections.3.1 Cross ReferencingCross referencing is calculated as a number of re-peated nouns and adjectives by a speaker P1 fromhis dialogue partner P2 divided by the total numberof P1?s words (Sillars et al, 1997).A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA)showed significant difference between Cross refer-encing of speakers from the groups L, M and H(AVL = 0.08, AVM = 0.047, AVH = 0.042, F(2,97) =8.43, p = 0.00062).
As we may see, speakers withlower verbal intelligence reused more nouns and ad-jectives of their dialogue partners than speakers withaverage and higher verbal intelligence.1273.2 ?I?, ?You?
and ?We?
wordsThe number of ?I?, ?You?
and ?We?
words in a dis-cussion may reflect the degree of closeness of speak-ers.
In Sillars et al (1997) these measures were usedfor the analysis of language use in marital conver-sations and closeness of relationships between part-ners.
It was found out that partners who had livedwith each other for a long time and were happy to-gether used ?we?
pronouns more often than sepa-rate pairs.
In addition, the proportion of ?I?
and?You?
words were higher for separates.
In our in-vestigation we also calculated the proportion of ?I?,?You?
and ?We?
words for each groups and com-pared them using ANOVA.
Interestingly, the pro-portion of ?I?-words of friends was greater thanthat of strangers (averaged value of ?I?-words forfriends AVF = 0.0033, for strangers AVS = 0.0017,F(1,109) = 5.33, p = 0.024).
This phenomenamay be explained in the following way.
Even dis-cussing the German education, friends might talkabout themselves.
People who had not met eachother before avoided talking too much about theirown experience.
On the other hand, the differenceof ?We?-words was not significant.
This means thateven friends were not able to linguistically showtheir closeness discussing such kind of topic.3.3 Between-Subject CorrelationAll the dialogue transcripts were compared with theLIWC dictionary for the German language (Wolf etal., 2008).
The dictionary consists of different wordssorted by 64 categories.
The categories may be di-vided into the following groups:?
Language composition, for example number ofwords, number of unique words, pronouns, ar-ticles, etc.?
Psychological processes, for example positiveand negative emotions, causal words, words ex-pressing certainty, etc.?
Relativity, for example words related to space,motion and time.?
Topic-related categories, for example job,school, sleep, etc.Each word from the dictionary may refer to sev-eral categories.
For example, the word traurig (sad)refers to the categories Affective Processes, Negativeemotions and Sadness.For analysing the degree of adaptation of dialogueparticipants, Pearson?s correlation coefficients be-tween F(Ai) and F(Bi) for each feature F were cal-culated (F(Ai) is the value of a feature F extractedfrom the utterances of the first dialogue partner Afrom a dialogue i, F(Bi) is the value of a feature Fextracted from the utterances of the second dialoguepartner B from a dialogue i).
For participants fromthe group L-L, 30% of the features showed a signif-icant correlation, for participants from the group H-L this value was 23%, for H-H this value was 12%.Table 1 shows the percentage of features with sig-nificant correlation for each LIWC group.LIWC group H-H L-L H-LLanguage composition 28% 37% 9%Psychological precesses 10% 19% 23%Relativity 10% 35% 30%Topic-related categories 11% 37% 27%Table 1: Percentage of LIWC categories with significantcorrelation coefficients.As we can see from the results, for almost allLIWC groups lower verbal intelligence speakers en-gaged in a conversation showed a higher degree ofadaptation.3.4 Similarity between two TextsIf two dialogue partners adapt to each other duringa conversation, the similarity between their utter-ances should be high.
For measuring the similar-ity between two texts, we calculated the degree ofalignment between frequency distributions of cer-tain features (tokens) extracted from the dialogues.For comparing the frequency distributions, the chi-square test was chosen because it does not requirethe normality of distributions and is easy to imple-ment.
A detailed explanation of this method maybe found in (Vogel and Lynch, 2007) and (Straker,2012).Let Fi and Fj be two text files containing ni and n jtokens correspondingly.
If Fi and Fj have the samelanguage style, we consider the texts to be takenfrom the same population and the distributions oftokens from the two files should not be significantlydifferent (null hypothesis).
The chi-square statistic128is calculated based on the observed and expectedvalues of tokens in both text-files.
If the chi-value?2i is less than a certain significance threshold c2i(based on the degrees of freedom and significancelevel), the null hypothesis is accepted and the twofiles may be considered as having a similar languagestyle (making an assumption that the language styleis reflected by tokens of this type).
For estimatingthe degree to which the two texts are similar, we cal-culate the distance between these two values:Similarityi = Si = ?2i ?
c2i .If ?c2i <= Si <= 0, the similarity between the textsis significant.
If Si > 0, the null hypothesis is re-jected: the analysed texts have different languagestyles.In this investigation four different types of tokenswere extracted: Letter n-gram distributions, Word n-gram distributions, Lemma n-gram distributions andPart-of-speech n-gram distributions.The mean values of Si for each group were com-pared to each other using ANOVA.
Features withsignificant ANOVA results for the groups F-F andS-S are shown in Table 2:Feature Si for F-F Si for S-S F(1,54)Word 3-g -48.7 -29.8 10.6Lemma 3-g -41.8 -23.5 10.1P.-of-speech 4-g -38.9 10.0 8.1P.-of-speech 5-g -59.4 -34.3 8.6Table 2: Significant features for F-F and S-S (p < 0.05).The results show that the similarities of languagebetween friends or relatives were greater than be-tween participants who had not met each other be-fore.Our next purpose was to check whether verbalintelligence plays a certain role if we analyse di-alogues between friends and strangers separately.ANOVA was applied to the mean values of thesimilarity measure Si calculated for the followinggroups:a) L-L, H-H and L-H only for dialogues betweenfriends;b) L-L, H-H and L-H only for dialogues betweenstrangers.ANOVA significant feature are shown in Tables 3and 4.Feature Si(L-L) Si(H-H) Si(L-H) FWord 4-g -77.8 -62.4 -53.81 3.9P.-of-sp.
6-g -83.5 -63.7 -53.9 4.7Table 3: Significant features for L-L, H-H and L-H onlyfor dialogues between friends (p < 0.05, F(1,53)).Feature Si(L-L) Si(H-H) Si(L-H) FWord 4-g. -59.9 -90.1 -45.2 2.2Table 4: Significant features for L-L, H-H and L-H onlyfor dialogues between strangers (p < 0.05, F(1,53)).As we may see from the results, a lower verbalintelligence speaker may adapt to his dialogue part-ner if they both are relatives or friends.
On the otherhand, if dialogue partners have not met each otherbefore, higher verbal intelligence speakers are bet-ter able to adapt to their dialogue partner than lowerverbal intelligence speakers.4 DiscussionsAs we may see from the results, it was difficult forthe candidates to linguistically show their closenessdiscussing the education system in Germany.
How-ever, similarity of utterances in dialogues betweenfriends was greater than similarity in dialogues be-tween strangers.
Lower verbal intelligence speakersrepeated nouns and adjectives from their dialoguepartners and used words from the same linguisticdimensions more often than higher verbal intelli-gence speakers.
The first hypothesis is just partlyproven because we did not find features that reflectadaptation of higher verbal intelligence speakers.
Inour future work we are going to further investigatehow higher verbal intelligence speakers linguisti-cally show their closeness to the other.
The resultsalso showed that speakers with lower verbal intelli-gence are better able to adapt to the other if they bothare relatives or friends.
As we suggested in our sec-ond hypothesis, if dialogue partners are strangers,higher verbal intelligence speakers show a higherdegree of adaptation.
In our future work we are go-ing to use this information for improving the clas-sification of speakers into two and three groups ac-cording to their verbal intelligence coefficients.129AcknowledgmentsThis work is partly supported by the DAAD (Ger-man Academic Exchange Service).Parts of the research described in this arti-cle are supported by the Transregional Collabora-tive Research Centre SFB/TRR 62 ?Companion-Technology for Cognitive Technical Systems?funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG).ReferencesBard, E. G., Anderson, A. H., Sotillo, C., Aylett, M.,Doherty-Sneddon, G. and Newlands, A.
2000.
Con-trolling the intelligibility of referring expressions in di-alogue.
Journal of Memory and Language, 42, p.1-22.Brennan, S. E. and Clark, H. H. 1996.
Conceptual pactsand lexical choice in conversation.
Journal of Exper-imental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cogni-tion, 22, p. 1482-1493.Buzan, T. 2002.
The power of verbal intelligence.HarperCollins Publishers, Inc.Cleland, A.
A. and Pickering, M. J.
2003.
The use of lex-ical and syntactic information in language production:Evidence from the priming of noun-phrase structure.Journal of Memory and Language, 49, p.214-230.Garrod, S. and Anderson, A.
1987.
Saying what youmean in dialogue: A study in conceptual and semanticco-ordination.
Cognition, 27, p. 181-218.Levelt, W. J. M. and Kelter, S. 1982.
Surface formand memory in question answering.
Cognitive Psy-chology, 14, p.78-106.Logsdon, A.
2012.
Learning Disabilities.http://www.learningdisabilities.about.com/Nenkova, A., Gravano, A. and Hirschberg, J.
2008.
Highfrequency word entrainment in spoken dialogue.
Pro-ceedings of ACL/HLT 2008, p.169-172.Pickering, M. and Garrod, S. 2004.
Toward a mech-anistic psychology of dialog.
Behavioral and BrainSciences, 27, p.169-190.Reitter, D., Keller, F. and Moore, J.
2006.
Computationalmodelling of structural priming in dialogue.
In Pro-ceedings of the Human Language Technology Confer-ence of the NAACL, companion volume, 2006, p. 121-124.Sillars A.L., Shellen W., McIntosh A. andPomegranate M.A.
Relational characteristics oflanguage: Elaboration and differentiation in maritalconversations.
Western Journal of Communication,61,p.403-422.Stoyanchev, S. and Stent, A.
2009.
Lexical and SyntacticPriming and Their Impact in Deployed Spoken DialogSystems.
Proceedings of NAACL HLT 2009, Boulder,Colorado, p.189-192.Straker D. Changing Minds.
http://changingminds.org/explanations/research/analysis/chi-square.htm.Vogel C. and Lynch G. Computational Stylometry:Who?s in a Play?
In Proceedings of COST 2102 Work-shop (Patras)?2007, p.169-186.Ward, A. and Litman, D. 2007.
Automatically measur-ing lexical and acoustic/prosodic convergence in tu-torial dialog corpora.
In Proceedings of the SLaTEWorkshop on Speech and Language Technology in Ed-ucation.Wechsler D. 1982.
Handanweisung zum Hamburg-Wechsler-Intelligenztest fu?r Erwachsene (HAWIE).Separatdr., Bern; Stuttgart; Wien; Huber.Wolf M., Horn A.B., Mehl M.R.
and Haug S. A?quivalenzund Robustheit der deutschen Version des LinguisticInquiry and Word Count Diagnostica, 54, Heft 2,p.85-98.Zablotskaya K., Ferna?ndez-Mart?
?nez F. and Minker W.2012.
Investigating Verbal Intelligence using the TF-IDF Approach.
Proceedings of International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC)2012, European Language Resources Association(ELRA).Zablotskaya K., Walter S. and Minker W. 2010.
Speechdata corpus for verbal intelligence estimation.
In Pro-ceedings of International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC) 2010, European Lan-guage Resources Association (ELRA), Valetta, Malta.130
