Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2012), pages 56?64,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsMedical diagnosis lost in translation ?
Analysis of uncertainty and negationexpressions in English and Swedish clinical textsDanielle L MoweryUniversity of Pittsburgh200 Meyran AvePittsburgh, PA 15260dlm31@pitt.eduSumithra VelupillaiStockholm University164 40 KistaStockholm, Swedensumithra@dsv.su.seWendy W ChapmanUniversity of California San Diego10100 Hopkins DrLa Jolla, CA 92093wwchapman@ucsd.eduAbstractIn the English clinical and biomedical text do-mains, negation and certainty usage are twowell-studied phenomena.
However, few stud-ies have made an in-depth characterizationof uncertainties expressed in a clinical set-ting, and compared this between different an-notation efforts.
This preliminary, qualita-tive study attempts to 1) create a clinical un-certainty and negation taxonomy, 2) developa translation map to convert annotation la-bels from an English schema into a Swedishschema, and 3) characterize and compare twodata sets using this taxonomy.
We definea clinical uncertainty and negation taxonomyand a translation map for converting annota-tion labels between two schemas and reportobserved similarities and differences betweenthe two data sets.1 Introduction and BackgroundMedical natural language processing techniques arepotentially useful for extracting information con-tained in clinical texts, such as emergency depart-ment reports (Meystre et al, 2008).
One impor-tant aspect to take into account when developing ac-curate information extraction tools is the ability todistinguish negated, affirmed, and uncertain infor-mation (Chu et al, 2006).
Several research stud-ies have targeted this problem and created anno-tation schemas and manually annotated referencestandards for uncertainty and negation occurrencein news documents (Saur??
and Pustejovsky (2009),Wiebe et al (2001), Rubin et al (2006)), biomedicalresearch articles (Wilbur et al (2006), Vincze et al(2008)), and clinical narratives (Uzuner et al (2011)and Uzuner et al (2009)).
There are encoding toolsdeveloped for automatic identification of uncertaintyand negation in English, such as ConText (Harkemaet al, 2009), which relies on heuristics and keywordlists, and MITRE?s CARAFE (Clark et al, 2011),which combines heuristic and statistical techniques.However, most relevant annotation schemas, ref-erence standards, and encoding tools are built forEnglish documents.
For smaller languages, such asSwedish, resources are scarce.We present a pilot, qualitative study to comparetwo different annotation schemas and subsequentannotated corpora for uncertainty modeling of dis-order mentions, e.g., signs, symptoms, and diseases,in clinical texts, for two different languages: Englishand Swedish.
We compare these annotation schemasand their instantiation in the two languages in an at-tempt to gain a deeper understanding of how uncer-tainty and negation are expressed in different clini-cal texts with an emphasis on creating a portable un-certainty and negation application that generalizesamong clinical texts of different languages.This pilot study is motivated for at least tworeasons.
First, little attention has been given tomapping, characterizing, or comparing annotationschemas built for different languages or to character-izing different types of uncertainty expressions andthe intention underlying those expressions.
Suchknowledge is needed for building information ex-traction tools that can accurately identify or trackdifferential diagnoses over time, particularly whenmedical reasoning can be laden with uncertaintyabout a disorder?s existence or change over time.56Second, building new resources for small lan-guages is time consuming.
Utilizing existing toolsand techniques already developed for one language,such as English, could be an efficient way of devel-oping new useful tools for other less exploited lan-guages, such as Swedish.Our overall goal is to move towards improving au-tomatic information extraction from clinical texts byleveraging language differences and similarities.
Inorder to address this issue, our aims in this studyare to 1) create a taxonomy for deepened charac-terization of how uncertainty and negation is ex-pressed in clinical texts, 2) compare two existing un-certainty and negation annotation schemas from thisperspective, and 3) compare differences and similar-ities in expressions of uncertainty and negation be-tween two languages: English and Swedish.2 MethodsIn this pilot, qualitative comparison study, we usedgrounded theory (Strauss and Corbin, 1990) to in-ductively identify themes that characterize clini-cal uncertainty and negation expressed in both En-glish (University of Pittsburgh Medical Center) andSwedish (Karolinska University Hospital) researchdata sets derived from emergency department re-ports.2.1 Uncertainty/negation annotation schemasTwo independently developed annotation schemaswere used to annotate disorder mentions in theclinical texts: a schema developed for English re-ports (Mowery et al (2012)) and one for Swedish(Velupillai et al (2011)).
Each disorder mentionwas pre-annotated and constituted the input to a sep-arate set of annotators, who assigned values to a setof attributes defined in the schema.
For instance, inthe sentence ?Patient with possible pneumonia.
?, an-notators for the English data set assigned values tofour attributes for the instance of pneumonia:?
Existence(yes, no): whether the disorder was ever present?
AspectualPhase(initiation, continuation, culmination, un-marked): the stage of the disorder in its progression?
Certainty(low, moderate, high, unmarked): amount of certaintyexpressed about whether the disorder exists?
MentalState(yes, no): whether an outward thought or feelingabout the disorder?s existence is mentionedIn the Swedish schema, annotators assigned val-ues to two attributes:?
Polarity(positive, negative): whether a disorder mention is in thepositive or negative polarity, i.e., affirmed (positive) or negated(negative)?
Certainty(possibly, probably, certainly): gradation of certaintyfor a disorder mention, to be assigned with a polarity value.2.2 Data SetsThe English data set included 30 de-identified, full-length emergency department reports annotated with283 disorders related to influenza-like illnesses bya board-certified infectious disease physician.
Eachdisorder was annotated with four attributes ?
exis-tence, aspectual phase, certainty and mental state ?by two independent annotators (including DM) whocame to consensus after reviewing disagreements.The Swedish data set included 1,297 assessmentsections from emergency department reports anno-tated with approx.
2,000 disorders, automaticallymarked from a manually created list of approx-imately 300 unique disorders by two physicians.The two physicians annotated each disorder mentionwith attributes of polarity and certainty.
A randomsubset of approx.
200 annotated disorder mentionsfrom the data set were used for this qualitative study.2.3 Study ProcessIn order to better understand how physicians de-scribe uncertainty of the presence or absence of adisorder, we evaluated the annotations from the twodata sets as follows: 1) created a clinical uncertaintyand negation taxonomy, 2) developed a translationmap for mapping attributes and values from the En-glish schema into the Swedish schema, and 3) char-acterized and compared both data sets and languagesusing the taxonomy.To create the uncertainty and negation taxonomy,we conducted a literature review of recent annota-tion schemas (e.g.
Vincze et al (2008)), assignmentapplications (e.g.
Uzuner et al (2011), Harkemaet al (2009), Clark et al (2011), Chapman et al(2011)), and observational studies (Lingard et al,2003) about uncertainty or negation in the clinicaldomain.
From our review, we created a clinical tax-onomy describing notable characteristics of uncer-tainty and negation, which were added to and re-fined using grounded theory, by inspecting the dis-order annotations in our data sets and documenting57emerging themes consistent with issues found fromthe literature review.
For instance, one characteristicof negation annotations found in the literature and inour data sets is the existence of a lexical cue indicat-ing that a disorder is negated, and the lexical cue canoccur before, within, or after the disorder mention.The characteristics included in the taxonomy repre-sent features describing the attributes of uncertaintyand negation in the data sets (see Section 3.1).To develop the translation map between certaintyand negation values from each annotation schema,authors DM and SV jointly reviewed each annotateddisorder mention from the English data set and as-signed a Swedish polarity and certainty label, thendevised a map from the English schema into theSwedish schema.To characterize and compare manifestations ofuncertainty and negation using annotations from thetwo data sets, DM and SV annotated each disordermention in both data sets with the features in theclinical uncertainty and negation taxonomy.
In theEnglish data set, each disorder was annotated by DMand adjudicated by SV.
In the Swedish data set, eachdisorder was annotated by SV then translated intoEnglish for adjudication by DM.3 Results3.1 Clinical Uncertainty and NegationTaxonomyWe developed a clinical uncertainty and negationtaxonomy to characterize the linguistic manifesta-tions of uncertainty and negation in clinical text(Figure 1).
We found three high-level features inthe literature and in our data sets: position of lexicalcue (i.e., position of the lexical expression indicat-ing uncertainty or negation with respect to the dis-order), opinion source (i.e.
person believing thereis absence, presence, or uncertainty), and evidenceevaluation (i.e., reason for the uncertainty or nega-tion belief).Position of lexical cue demonstrated itself in thedata sets in three non-mutually exclusive ways:?
pre-disorder (lexical cue precedes the disorder) ?Patient denieschest pain.??
intra-disorder (lexical cue occurs within the name of the disor-der) ?x-ray...possibly be indicative of pneumonia.??
post-disorder (lexical cue occurs after the disorder)?abdominal cramping..is unlikely.
?Opinion source exhibited the following values:?
dictating physician (dictating physician alone expressed pres-ence, absence, or uncertainty regarding the disorder) ?I suspectbacterial pneumonia.??
dictating physician with consultation (dictating physician explic-itly includes other clinical professional in statement) ?Discussingwith Dr. **NAME**, pneumonia can not be excluded.??
other clinical care providers (other clinical team members ex-plicitly stated as expressing presence, absence or uncertainty re-garding the disorder) ?per patient?s primary doctor, pneumoniais suspected.??
patient (patient expressed presence, absence, or uncertainty re-garding the disorder) ?Pt doesn?t think she has pneumonia.??
unknown (ambiguous who is expressing presence, absence, oruncertainty regarding the disorder) ?there was a short episode ofcoughing.
?Evidence evaluation includes a modified subsetof values found in the model of uncertainty pro-posed by Lingard et al (2003) to connote perceivedreasons for the provider uncertainty (and negation)about the disorder mention as used in our data sets.?
limits of evidence (data limitations for hypothesis testing), onediagnosis?
evidence contradicts (data contradicts expected hypothe-sis), ?Blood test normal, but we still think Lyme disease.??
evidence needed (evidence unavailable to test hypoth-esis) ?Waiting for x-ray results to determine if it?s afemur fracture.??
evidence not convincing, but diagnosis asserted (datadoesn?t fully support proposed hypothesis), ?Slightly el-evated levels of WBCs suggests infection.??
limits of evidence, more than one diagnosis?
differential diagnoses enumerated (competing diagnosesreasoned), ?bacterial infection vs. viral infection.??
limits in source of evidence (untrusted evidence)?
non-clinical source (from non-provider source), ?Pt can?tremember if she was diagnosed with COPD.??
clinical source (from provider source), ?I do not agreewith Dr. X?s diagnosis of meningitis.??
test source (from test e.g., poor quality), ?We cannot de-termine from the x-ray if the mass is fluid or a tumor.??
limitless possibilities (large number of likely diagnoses so diag-nosis defaulted to most likely), ?This is probably an infection ofsome sort.??
other (no evidence limitation)?
asserting a diagnosis or disorder as affirmed (positivecase), ?Confirms nausea.??
asserting a diagnosis or disorder as negated (negativecase), ?No vomiting.
?58Figure 1: Uncertainty and negation taxonomy with features ?
Position of lexical cue, Opinion source and Evidence evaluation ?with corresponding values (nested lines and sub-lines).3.2 Translation MapIn order to compare annotations between the datasets, we developed a mapping procedure for convert-ing the four annotated attribute values from the En-glish schema into the two annotated attribute valuesfrom the Swedish schema.
This mapping procedureuses two normalization steps, negation and certainty(see Figure 2).Using Figure 2, we explain the mapping proce-dure to convert English annotations into Swedishannotations.
Our steps and rules are applied withprecedence, top down and left to right.
For ?I haveno suspicion for bacterial infection for this patient?,English annotations are Existence(no) AND Aspec-tualPhase(null) AND Certainty(high) AND Men-talState(yes), and Swedish annotations are Polar-ity(negative) AND Certainty(probably).
The map-ping procedure applies two normalization steps,negation and uncertainty, with the following rules.The first step is negation normalization to convertExistence and Aspectual Phase into Polarity anno-tations.
In this example, Existence(no) ?
Polar-ity(negative).The second step is certainty normalization withup to two sub steps.
For Certainty mapping, in sum-mary, map English NOT Certainty(unmarked) toSwedish Certainty level, e.g., Certainty(high)?
Certainty(probably).
For MentalStatemapping, if English Certainty(unmarked) ANDMentalState(yes), map to either Swedish Cer-tainty(probably) OR Certainty(possibly) usingyour best judgment; otherwise, map to Cer-tainty(certainly).
For our example sentence,Certainty mapping was sufficient to map from theEnglish to the Swedish Certainty levels.We found that these two schemas were mappable.Despite the binary mapping splits from English Cer-tainty(Moderate) ?
Swedish Certainty(possibly)OR Certainty(probably) and judgment calls neces-sary for MentalState mapping, few annotations werenot easily mapped.3.3 Characterization of English and SwedishData setsIn this study, we characterized our data sets accord-ing to a clinical uncertainty and negation taxonomycomprised of three concepts ?
position of lexicalcue, opinion source, and evidence evaluation.3.3.1 Position of lexical cueIn Table 1, we show examples of phrases from eachdata set representing the Polarity and Certainty lev-els in the taxonomy.
In our data set, we did notexplicitly annotate markers for the highest certaintylevels in the positive polarity, such as ?definitelyhas?.
We did not encounter any of these cases in the59Figure 2: Map between values for attributes in Swedish and English schemas.
Bolded rules indicate the rules used to assign valuesto the example sentence (English sentence on top).data set.
We observed that most uncertainty expres-sions precede a disorder mention.
Few expressionsboth precede and follow the disorder mention, orwithin the disorder mention itself.
We observed thatmost expressions of uncertainty are conveyed usingpositive polarity gradations such as ?probably?
and?possibly?, for example ?likely?, ?appears to have?,?signs of?.
Lexical cues of low levels of certainty inthe negative polarity were rare.3.3.2 Opinion sourceIn Table 2, we report examples of the various in-dividuals ?
dictating physician, dictating physicianwith consultation, other clinical care providers, pa-tient, unknown ?
that are the source of the beliefstate for uncertainty about a disorder.
We observedexplicit judgments or mental postulations e.g., ?Ijudge?
or implied speculations in which the physi-cian was not the subject and passive expressionswere used e.g., ?patient appears to have?.
In casesof dictating physician with consultation, the physi-cian speculated about the disorder using referencesto other providers consulted to strengthen the as-sessment e.g., ?Discussing with Dr...?.
In cases ofother clinical care providers, there was no owner-ship on the part of the dictating physician, but ofother members of the clinical care team e.g., ?Con-sulting Attending (Infection) thinks...?.
In cases forpatient, the patient is conveying statements of con-fusion with respect to self-diagnosing e.g., ?Pat.
re-ports that she finds it difficult to discern...?.
We ob-served no expressions of uncertainty owned by thepatient in the English data set or by a relative in theSwedish data set.
In the unknown case, it is unclearfrom the context of the report whether the specu-lation is on the part of the physician to believe thesymptom reported or the relative unsure about re-porting the symptoms e.g., ?there was apparently?.3.3.3 Evidence evaluationBelow we list examples of the different rea-sons for uncertainties that were identified.
Not alltypes were observed in both corpora (Not observed).limits of evidence, one diagnosis- evidence contradicts ?
English: ?Likely upper GI bleedwith elevated bun, but normal h and h.?
; Swedish: ?Kon-sulterar infektionsjour som anser viros vara osannoliktmed tanke pa?
normalt leverstatus.
(Consulting Attend-ing (infection) who thinks that virosis is improbable givennormal liver status.
)?- evidence needed ?
English: ?chest x-ray was orderedto rule out TB.?
; Swedish: ?Diskuterar med RAH-jour;vi bo?rjar utredning med CT-skalle med kontrast pa?
mis-stanke om metastaser och na?gon form av epileptiskt anfall(Discussion with Attendant [CLINIC]; we start inves-60Table 1: Common lexical cues and their relative position to the disorder mention: Pre-disorder: uncertainty marker before disor-der, Intra-disorder: uncertainty marker inside disorder, Post-disorder: uncertainty marker after disorder, }= schema compatibil-ity/neutral case.Table 2: Opinion source of uncertainty or negation types with English and Swedish examples.tigation with CT-brain with contrast on suspicion formetastasis and some form of epileptic seizure.
)?- evidence not convincing, but diagnosis asserted ?
En-glish: Not observed; Swedish: ?Fo?rmodligen en viroseftersom man kan se en viss lymfocytopeni i diff (Proba-bly a virosis since there is some lymphocyte in blood cellcount.
)?limits of evidence, more than one diagnosis- differential diagnoses enumerated ?
English: ?ques-tionable right-sided increased density on the right sideof the chest x-ray that could possibly be indicative ofa pneumonia versus increased pulmonary vasculature?
;Swedish: ?Fo?refaller neurologiskt, blo?dning?
Infarkt?
(Appears neurological, bleeding?
Infarction?
)?limits in source of evidence- non-clinical source ?
English: ?I am not convinced thathe is perfectly clear on his situation..?
; Swedish: ?Patuppger att hon har sva?rt att skilja pa?
panika?ngest och an-dra symtom.
(Pat.
reports that she finds it difficult todiscern panick disorder from other symptoms...)?- clinical source ?
English: ?there was no definite diagno-sis and they thought it was a viral syndrome of unknowntype..?
; Swedish: Not observed- test source ?
English: ?..confusion was possible relateda TIA without much facial droop appreciated on myphysical exam?
; Swedish: ?Ter sig mest sannolikt somreumatoid artrit ba?de klinisk och lab-ma?ssigt (Seems likeit most probably is rheumatoid arthritis both clinicallyand lab-wise.
)?limitless possibilities ?
English: ?I think this is probably aviral problem.?
; Swedish: ?Pat bedo?mes ha en fo?rkylning,troligen virusinfektion.
(Patient is evaluated as having a cold,probably a virus infection.
)?other61- asserting dx or disorder as affirmed ?
English: ?I sus-pect that colon cancer is both the cause of the patient?sbleeding..?
; Swedish: Not observed- asserting dx or disorder as negated ?
English: ?...herfever has abated.?
; Swedish: Not observedIn many cases, the local context was sufficient forunderstanding the evidential origins for uncertainty.When a single disorder was mentioned, uncertaintywas due to data insufficient to make a definitive di-agnosis because it contradicted a hypothesis, wasunavailable, or was not convincing.
For instance,data was to be ordered and the opportunity to inter-pret it had not presented itself, such as ?..was or-dered to rule out TB?
or ?..start investigation withCT-brain with contrast..?.
In few cases, more thanone diagnosis was being enumerated due to a lim-itation in the evidence or data gathered e.g., ?Ap-pears neurological, bleeding?
Infarction??.
We ob-served cases in which the source of the evidence pro-duced uncertainty including both non-clinical andclinical sources (care providers consulted and testsproduced).
In cases of limitless possibilities, thephysician resorted to a common, default diagnosise.g., ?probably a virus infection?.
Limitations of ev-idence from a clinical source were not found in theSwedish data set and few were found in the Englishdata set.
We expect that more examples of this cat-egory would be found in e.g.
radiology reports inwhich the quality of the image is a critical factor inmaking an interpretation.4 Discussion and ConclusionFrom the resulting clinical taxonomy and charac-terization, we observe some general differences andsimilarities between the two data sets and languages.The Swedish assessment entries are more verbosecompared to the English medical records in termsof a more detailed account of the uncertainty andwhat is being done by whom to derive a diagnosisfrom a disorder mention.
This might reflect culturaldifferences in how documentation is both producedand used.
Differential diagnoses are often listed withquestion marks (???)
in the Swedish set, e.g., ?Dis-order 1?
Disorder 2?
Disorder 3?
?, whereas in theEnglish data set enumerations are either listed orcompeting, e.g., ?disorder 1 vs. disorder 2?.
De-spite these differences, there are many similaritiesbetween the two data sets.Mapping observations from the English schemainto the Swedish schema was not complicateddespite the difference in the modeled attributes.In most cases, we determined that designatingattribute-value rules for negation and certainty nor-malization steps was sufficient to accurately map ob-servations between the language schemas withoutchanging an observation?s semantics.
This findingsuggests that simple heuristics can be used to trans-late annotations made from English trained toolsinto the Swedish schema values.The majority of the lexical markers are pre-positioned in both languages, and the majority ofthese markers are similar across the two languages,e.g., ?likely?, ?possible?, ?suspicion for?.
How-ever, inflections and variants are more common inSwedish, and the language allows for free word or-der, this relation needs to be studied further.
Thedefault case, i.e.
affirmed, or certainly positive, wasrarely expressed through lexical markers.When it comes to the opinion source of an un-certainty or negation, we observed a pattern in theuse of passive voice, e.g.
?it was felt?, indicatingavoidance to commitment in a statement.
Accurateextraction of the opinion source of an expressionhas important implications for a system that, for in-stance, tracks the reasoning about a patient case overtime by source.
This has been recognized and incor-porated in other annotation efforts, for example fornews documents (Saur??
and Pustejovsky, 2009).
Inthe English data set, no cases of self-diagnosing arefound, i.e.
a patient owning the expressed uncer-tainty.
In both data sets, an implicit dictating physi-cian source is most common, i.e.
there is no explicituse of pronouns indicating the opinion holder.
Inmost cases it is clear that it is the writer?s (i.e.
thedictating physician?s) opinion that is expressed, butin some cases, a larger context is needed for thisknowledge to be resolved.Reviewing the evidential origins or reason for ex-pressed uncertainty, for both the Swedish and En-glish data sets, the category ?limits of evidence?
ismost common.
This reflects a clinical reality, wheremany disorders require test results, radiology find-ings and other similar procedures before ascertain-ing a diagnosis.
Although most cases of uncertaintyare manifested and strengthened through a lexical62marker, there are also instances where the uncer-tainty is evident without such explicit markers, e.g.the ordering of a test may in itself indicate uncer-tainty.4.1 LimitationsThere are several limitations of this study.
TheSwedish data set only contains parts of the medi-cal record and the English data set is very small.In the creation of the taxonomy and characteristics,we have not focused on studying uncertainty lev-els, i.e.
distinctions between ?possibly?
and ?prob-ably?.
The values of our taxonomy are preliminaryand may change as we develop the size of our dataset.
Additionally, we only studied emergency de-partment reports.
We need to study other reporttypes to evaluate the generalizability of the taxon-omy.The two compared languages both origin from thesame language family (Germanic), which limits gen-eralizability for other languages.
Furthermore, thedefinitions of disorders in the two sets differ to someextent, i.e., English disorders are related to specificinfluenza-like illnesses and Swedish to more generaldisorders found in emergency departments.4.2 Comparison to related workAnnotation schemas and reference standards for un-certainty and negation have been created from dif-ferent perspectives, for different levels and pur-poses.
The BioScope Corpus, for instance, containssentence-level uncertainty annotations with token-level annotations for speculation and negation cues,along with their linguistic scope (Vincze et al,2008).
In Wilbur et al (2006), five qualitative di-mensions for characterizing biomedical articles aredefined, including levels of certainty.
In the 2010i2b2/VA Challenge on concepts, assertions and re-lations in clinical texts, medical problem conceptswere annotated.
The assertion task included six an-notation classes (present, absent, possible, hypothet-ical, conditional, not associated with the patient),to be assigned to each medical problem concept(Uzuner et al, 2011).
Vincze et al (2011) presenta quantitative comparison of the intersection of twoEnglish corpora annotated for negation and specula-tion (BioScope and Genia Event) from two differentperspectives (linguistic and event-oriented).We extend these schemas by characterizing theunderlying meaning and distinctions evident by thelinguistic expressions used to indicate uncertaintyand negation in the clinical domain and by exploringthe relationship between uncertainty and negation,through an analysis and comparison of two differ-ent annotation schemas.
However, this study is not aproposal for mapping to these schemas or others.From an application perspective, uncertainty andnegation handling have been included in rule-basedsystems such as NegEx and ConText, applied on dis-order mentions.
In Chapman et al (2011), a gener-alized version of ConText is presented, with uncer-tainty values (probably, definitely) linked to either apositive or negative assertion, with an added indeter-minate value.
A previous study has shown promis-ing results for adapting NegEx to Swedish (Skepp-stedt, 2011), indicating that further extensions andadaptations between the two languages for e.g.
un-certainty modeling should be viable.
Machine-learning based approaches outperform rule-basedfor assertion classification according to results pre-sented in Uzuner et al (2009).
A machine-learningapproach was also used in the top performing sys-tem in the 2010 i2b2/VA Challenge assertion task(de Bruijn et al, 2011).4.3 Implications and future workWith uncertainty lexicons for both Swedish and En-glish, we hypothesize that we will be able to ex-tend ConText to handle uncertainties in English aswell as in Swedish.
This enables both improve-ments over the existing system and the possibilitiesof further comparing system performances betweenlanguages.
We will also experiment with machine-learning approaches to detect and annotate uncer-tainty and negation.
We plan to extend both datasets, the English data set using semi-automaticallytranslated disorders marked in the Swedish data setto encode new disorder mentions, and the Swedishdata set by extracting the full medical records, thuscreating a larger set for comparison.
We will extendthe taxonomy as needed e.g., syntactic and semanticpatterns, and investigate how to integrate the clini-cal taxonomy to inform ConText by providing moregranular descriptions of the motivation behind theuncertainty, thus bringing us closer to natural lan-guage understanding.63AcknowledgmentsFor the English and Swedish data sets, we obtainedapproval from the University of Pittsburgh IRB andthe Regional Ethical Review Board in Stockholm(Etikpro?vningsna?mnden i Stockholm).
The study ispart of the Interlock project, funded by the Stock-holm University Academic Initiative and partiallyfunded by NLM Fellowship 5T15LM007059.
Lex-icons and probabilities will be made available andupdated on the iDASH NLP ecosystem under Re-sources: http://idash.ucsd.edu/nlp/natural-language-processing-nlp-ecosystem.ReferencesB.
E. Chapman, S. Lee, H. Peter Kang, and W. W. Chap-man.
2011.
Document-level Classification of CT Pul-monary Angiography Reports Based on an Extensionof the ConText Algorithm.
Journal of Biomedical In-formatics, 44:728?737.D.
Chu, J.N.
Dowling, and WW Chapman.
2006.
Eval-uating the Effectiveness of Four Contextual Featuresin Classifying Annotated Clinical Conditions in Emer-gency Department Reports.
In AMIA Annu Symp Proc,pages 141?145.C.
Clark, J. Aberdeen, M. Coarr, D. Tresner-Kirsh,B.
Wellner, A. Yeh, and L. Hirschman.
2011.
MITREsystem for Clinical Assertion Status Classification.
JAm Med Inform Assoc, 11(18):563?567.B.
de Bruijn, C. Cherry, S. Kiritchenko, J. Martin, andX.
Zhu.
2011.
Machine-learned Solutions for ThreeStages of Clinical Information Extraction: The State ofthe Art at i2b2 2010.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association, 18:557?562.H.
Harkema, J. N. Dowling, T. Thornblade, and W. W.Chapman.
2009.
ConText: An Algorithm for De-termining Negation, Experiencer, and Temporal Statusfrom Clinical Reports.
Journal of Biomedical Infor-matics, 42:839?851.L.
Lingard, K. Garwood, C. F. Schryer, and M. M. Spaf-ford.
2003.
A Certain Art of Uncertainty: Case Pre-sentation and the Development of Professional Iden-tity.
Social science medicine, 56(3):603?616.S.
M. Meystre, G. K. Savova, K. C. Kipper-Schuler, andJohn E. Hurdle.
2008.
Extracting Information fromTextual Documents in the Electronic Health Record: AReview of Recent Research.
IMIA Yearbook of Medi-cal Informatics 2008.
47 Suppl 1:138-154.D.
Mowery, P. Jordan, J.M.
Wiebe, H. Harkema, andW.W.
Chapman.
2012.
Semantic Annotation of Clini-cal Text: A Pilot Study.
Unpublished.V.
L. Rubin, E. D. Liddy, and N. Kando.
2006.
Cer-tainty Identification in Texts: Categorization Modeland Manual Tagging Results.
In Computing Affect andAttitutde in Text: Theory and Applications.
Springer.R.
Saur??
and J. Pustejovsky.
2009.
FactBank: A CorpusAnnotated with Event Factuality.
Language Resourcesand Evaluation, 43(3):227?268?268, September.M.
Skeppstedt.
2011.
Negation Detection in SwedishClinical Text: An Adaptation of NegEx to Swedish.Journal of Biomedical Semantics, 2(Suppl.
3):S3.A.
L. Strauss and J. Corbin.
1990.
Basics of Qual-itative Research: Grounded Theory Procedures andTechniques.
Sage.O?.
Uzuner, X. Zhang, and T. Sibanda.
2009.
Ma-chine Learning and Rule-based Approaches to Asser-tion Classification.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association, 16(1):109?115.O?.
Uzuner, B. R. South, S. Shen, and S. L. DuVall.
2011.2010 i2b2/VA Challenge on Concepts, Assertions, andRelations in Clinical Text.
JAMIA, 18(5):552?556.S.
Velupillai, H. Dalianis, and M. Kvist.
2011.
Factual-ity Levels of Diagnoses in Swedish Clinical Text.
InA.
Moen, S. K. Andersen, J. Aarts, and P. Hurlen, ed-itors, Proc.
XXIII International Conference of the Eu-ropean Federation for Medical Informatics (User Cen-tred Networked Health Care), pages 559 ?
563, Oslo,August.
IOS Press.V.
Vincze, G. Szarvas, R. Farkas, G. Mo?ra, and J. Csirik.2008.
The BioScope Corpus: Biomedical Texts An-notated for Uncertainty, Negation and Their Scopes.BMC Bioinformatics, 9(S-11).V.
Vincze, G. Szarvas, G. M?ora, T. Ohta, and R. Farkas.2011.
Linguistic Scope-based and Biological Event-based Speculation and Negation Annotations in theBioScope and Genia Event Corpora.
Journal ofBiomedical Semantics, 2(Suppl.
5):S8.J.
Wiebe, R. Bruce, M. Bell, M. Martin, and T. Wilson.2001.
A Corpus Study of Evaluative and Specula-tive Language.
In Proceedings of the Second SIG-dial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue - Volume16, SIGDIAL ?01, pages 1?10, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.J.
W. Wilbur, A. Rzhetsky, and H. Shatkay.
2006.New Directions in Biomedical Text Annotation: Def-initions, Guidelines and Corpus Construction.
BMCBioinformatics, 7:356+, July.64
