Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis, pages 104?109,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 12 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic frames as an anchor representation for sentiment analysisJosef RuppenhoferDepartment of Information Scienceand Natural Language ProcessingUniversity of Hildesheim, Germanyruppenho@uni-hildesheim.deInes RehbeinSFB 632: Information StructureGerman DepartmentPotsdam University, Germanyirehbein@uni-potsdam.deAbstractCurrent work on sentiment analysis is char-acterized by approaches with a pragmatic fo-cus, which use shallow techniques in the inter-est of robustness but often rely on ad-hoc cre-ation of data sets and methods.
We argue thatprogress towards deep analysis depends ona) enriching shallow representations with lin-guistically motivated, rich information, and b)focussing different branches of research andcombining ressources to create synergies withrelated work in NLP.
In the paper, we proposeSentiFrameNet, an extension to FrameNet, asa novel representation for sentiment analysisthat is tailored to these aims.1 IntroductionSentiment analysis has made a lot of progress onmore coarse-grained analysis levels using shallowtechniques.
However, recent years have seen a trendtowards more fine-grained and ambitious analysesrequiring more linguistic knowledge and more com-plex statistical models.
Recent work has tried to pro-duce relatively detailed summaries of opinions ex-pressed in news texts (Stoyanov and Cardie, 2011);to assess the impact of quotations from businessleaders on stock prices (Drury et al, 2011); to detectimplicit sentiment (Balahur et al, 2011); etc.
Ac-cordingly, we can expect that greater demands willbe made on the amount of linguistic knowledge, itsrepresentation, and the evaluation of systems.Against this background, we argue that it isworthwhile to complement the existing shallowand pragmatic approaches with a deep, lexical-semantics based one in order to enable deeper analy-sis.
We report on ongoing work in constructing Sen-tiFrameNet, an extension of FrameNet (Baker et al,1998) offering a novel representation for sentimentanalysis based on frame semantics.2 Shallow and pragmatic approachesCurrent approaches to sentiment analysis are mainlypragmatically oriented, without giving equal weightto semantics.
One aspect concerns the identifica-tion of sentiment-bearing expressions.
The anno-tations in the MPQA corpus (Wiebe et al, 2005),for instance, were created without limiting what an-notators can annotate in terms of syntax or lexicon.While this serves the spirit of discovering the varietyof opinion expressions in actual contexts, it makesit difficult to match opinion expressions when us-ing the corpus as an evaluation dataset as the sameor similar structures may be treated differently.
Asimilar challenge lies in distinguishing so-called po-lar facts from inherently sentiment-bearing expres-sions.
For example, out of context, one would notassociate any of the words in the sentence Wagesare high in Switzerland with a particular evaluativemeaning.
In specific contexts, however, we maytake the sentence as reason to either think positivelyor negatively of Switzerland: employees receivingwages may be drawn to Switzerland, while employ-ers paying wages may view this state of affairs neg-atively.
As shown by the inter-annotator agreementresults reported by (Toprak et al, 2010), agreementon distinguishing polar facts from inherently eval-uative language is low.
Unsurprisingly, many ef-forts at automatically building up sentiment lexicasimply harvest expressions that frequently occur aspart of polar facts without resolving whether the sub-jectivity clues extracted are inherently evaluative or104merely associated with statements of polar fact.Pragmatic considerations also lead to certain ex-pressions of sentiment or opinion being excludedfrom analysis.
(Seki, 2007), for instance, annotatedsentences as ?not opinionated?
if they contain indi-rect hearsay evidence or widely held opinions.In the case of targets, the work by (Stoyanov andCardie, 2008) exhibits a pragmatic focus as well.These authors distinguish between (a) the topic ofa fine-grained opinion, defined as the real-world ob-ject, event or abstract entity that is the subject of theopinion as intended by the opinion holder; (b) thetopic span associated with an opinion expression isthe closest, minimal span of text that mentions thetopic; and (c) the target span defined as the spanof text that covers the syntactic surface form com-prising the contents of the opinion.
As the defini-tions show, (Stoyanov and Cardie, 2008) focus ontext-level, pragmatic relevance by paying attentionto what the author intends, rather than concentrat-ing on the explicit syntactic dependent (their targetspan) as the topic.
This pragmatic focus is also inevidence in (Wilson, 2008)?s work on contextual po-larity classification, which uses features in the clas-sification that are syntactically independent of theopinion expression such as the number of subjectiv-ity clues in adjoining sentences.Among lexicon-driven approaches, we find thatdespite arguments that word sense distinctions areimportant to sentiment analysis (Wiebe and Mihal-cea, 2006), often-used resources do not take theminto account and new resources are still being cre-ated which operate on the more shallow lemma-level(e.g.
(Neviarouskaya et al, 2009)).
Further, mostlexical resources do not adequately represent caseswhere multiple opinions are tied to one expressionand where presuppositions and temporal structurecome into play.
An example is the verb despoil:there is a positive opinion by the reporter about thedespoiled entity in its former state, a negative opin-ion about its present state, and (inferrable) negativesentiment towards the despoiler.
In most resources,the positive opinion will not be represented.The most common approach to the task is an in-formation extraction-like pipeline.
Expressions ofopinion, sources and targets are often dealt with sep-arately, possibly using separate resources.
Somework such as (Kim and Hovy, 2006) has exploredthe connection to role labeling.
One reason not topursue this is that ?in many practical situations, theannotation beyond opinion holder labeling is too ex-pensive?
(Wiegand, 2010, p.121).
(Shaikh et al,2007) use semantic dependencies and compositionrules for sentence-level sentiment scoring but do notdeal with source and target extraction.
The focus onrobust partial solutions, however, prevents the cre-ation of an integrated high-quality resource.3 The extended frame-semantic approachWe now sketch a view of sentiment analysis on thebasis of an appropriately extended model of framesemantic representation.1Link to semantic frames and roles Since the pos-sible sources and targets of opinion are usually iden-tical to a predicate?s semantic roles, we add opinionframes with slots for Source, Target, Polarity andIntensity to the FrameNet database.
We map theSource and Target opinion roles to semantic rolesas appropriate, which enables us to use semanticrole labeling systems in the identification of opinionroles (Ruppenhofer et al, 2008).In SentiFrameNet al lexical units (LUs) that areinherently evaluative are associated with opinionframes.
The language of polar facts is not associ-ated with opinion frames.
However, we show in thelonger version of this paper (cf.
footnote 1) how wesupport certain types of inferred sentiment.
With re-gard to targets, our representation selects as targetsof opinion the target spans of (Stoyanov and Cardie,2008) rather than their opinion topics (see Section2).
For us, opinion topics that do not coincide withtarget spans are inferential opinion targets.Formal diversity of opinion expressions For fine-grained sentiment-analysis, handling the full vari-ety of opinion expressions is indispensable.
Whileadjectives in particular have often been found tobe very useful cues for automatic sentiment anal-ysis (Wiebe, 2000; Benamara et al, 2007), eval-uative meaning pervades all major lexical classes.There are many subjective multi-words and idiomssuch as give away the store and evaluative mean-ing also attaches to grammatical constructions, evenones without obligatory lexical material.
An exam-1We present a fuller account of our ideas in an unpublishedlonger version of this paper, available from the authors?
web-sites.105ple is the construction exemplified by Him be a doc-tor?
The so-called What, me worry?-construction(Fillmore, 1989) consists only of an NP and an in-finitive phrase.
Its rhetorical effect is to express thespeaker?s surprise or incredulity about the proposi-tion under consideration.
The FrameNet databaseschema accommodates not only single and multi-words but also handles data for a constructicon (Fill-more et al, to appear) that pairs grammatical con-structions with meanings.Multiple opinions We need to accommodate multi-ple opinions relating to the same predicate as in thecase of despoil mentioned above.
Predicates withmultiple opinions are not uncommon: in a 100-itemrandom sample taken from the Pittsburgh subjectiv-ity clues, 17 involved multiple opinions.The use of opinion frames as described above en-ables us to readily represent multiple opinions.
Forinstance, the verb brag in the modified Braggingframe has two opinion frames.
The first one has pos-itive polarity and represents the frame-internal pointof view.
The SPEAKER is the Source relative to theTOPIC as the Target.
The second opinion frame hasnegative polarity, representing the reporter?s point ofview.
The SPEAKER is the Target but the Source isunspecified, indicating that it needs to be resolvedto an embedded source.
For a similar representationof multiple opinions in a Dutch lexical resource, see(Maks and Vossen, 2011).Event structure and presuppositions A completerepresentation of subjectivity needs to include eventand presuppositional structure.
This is necessary,for instance, for predicates like come around (on) in(1), which involve changes of opinion relative to thesame target by the same source.
Without the pos-sibility of distinguishing between attitudes held atdifferent times, the sentiment associated with thesepredicates cannot be modeled adequately.
(1) Newsom is still against extending weekday me-tering to evenings, but has COME AROUND onSunday enforcement.For come around (on), we want to to distinguishits semantics from that of predicates such as ambiva-lent and conflicted, where a COGNIZER simultane-ously holds opposing valuations of (aspects of) a tar-get.
Following FrameNet?s practice, we model pre-supposed knowledge explicitly in SentiFrameNet byFigure 1: Frame analysis for "Come around"using additional frames and frame relations.
A par-tial analysis of come around is sketched in Figure 1.We use the newly added Come around scenarioframe as a background frame that ties together allthe information we have about instances of comingaround.
Indicated by the dashed lines are the SUB-FRAMES of the scenario.
Among them are threeinstances of the Deciding frame (solid lines), allrelated temporally (dashed-dotted) and in terms ofcontent to an ongoing Discussion.
The initial dif-ference of opinion is encoded by the fact that De-ciding1 and Deciding2 share the same POSSIBILI-TIES but differ in the DECISION.
The occurrenceof Come_around leads to Deciding3, which has thesame COGNIZER as Deciding1 but its DECISION isnow identical to that in Deciding2, which has beenunchanged.
The sentiment information we need isencoded by simply stating that there is a sentimentof positive polarity of the COGNIZER (as source)towards the DECISION (as target) in the Decidingframe.
(This opinion frame is not displayed in thegraphic.)
The Come around frame itself is not as-106sociated with sentiment information, which seemsright given that it does not include a DECISION as aframe element but only includes the ISSUE.For a discussion of how SentiFrameNet capturesfactuality presuppositions by building on (Saur?,2008)?s work on event factuality, we refer the inter-ested reader to the longer version of the paper.Modulation, coercion and composition Speakerscan shift the valence or polarity of sentiment-bearingexpressions through some kind of negation operator,or intensify or attenuate the impact of an expression.Despite these interacting influences, it is desirable tohave at least a partial ordering among predicates re-lated to the same semantic scale; we want to be ableto find out from our resource that good is less pos-itive than excellent, while there may be no orderingbetween terrific and excellent.
In SentiFrameNet, anordering between the polarity strength values of dif-ferent lexical units is added on the level of frames.The frame semantic approach also offers new per-spectives on sentiment composition.
We can, for in-stance, recognize cases of presupposed sentiment,as in the case of the noun revenge, which are notamenable to shifting by negation: She did not takerevenge does not imply that there is no negative eval-uation of some injury inflicted by an offender.Further, many cases of what has been called va-lence shifting for us are cases where the evaluationis wholly contained in a predicate.
(2) Just barely AVOIDED an accident today.
(3) I had served the bank for 22 years and hadAVOIDED a promotion since I feared that Iwould be transferred out of Chennai city.If we viewed avoid as a polarity shifter and fur-ther treated nouns like promotion and accident assentiment-bearing (rather than treating them as de-noting events that affect somebody positively or neg-atively) we should expect that while (2) has positivesentiment, (3) has negative sentiment.
But that is notso: accomplished intentional avoiding is always pos-itive for the avoider.
Also, the reversal analysis foravoid cannot deal with complements that have no in-herent polarity.
It readily follows from the coercionanalysis that I avoid running into her is negative butthat cannot be derived in e.g.
(Moilanen and Pul-man, 2007)?s compositional model which takes intoaccount inherent lexical polarity, which run (into)lacks.
The fact that avoid imposes a negative evalu-ation by its subject on its object can easily be mod-eled using opinion frames.4 Impact and ConclusionsDeep analysis Tying sentiment analysis to frame se-mantics enables immediate access to a deeper lexicalsemantics.
Given particular application-interests,for instance, identifying statements of uncertainty,frames and lexical units relevant to the task canbe pulled out easily from the general resource.
Aframe-based treatment also improves over resourcessuch as SentiWordNet (Baccianella et al, 2008),which, while representing word meanings, lacks anyrepresentation of semantic roles.Theoretical insights New research questions await,among them: whether predicates with multiple opin-ions can be distinguished automatically from oneswith only one, and whether predicates carrying fac-tivity or other sentiment-related presuppositions canbe discovered automatically.
Further, our approachlets us ask how contextual sentiment is, and howmuch of the analysis of pragmatic annotations canbe derived from lexical and syntactic knowledge.Evaluation With a frame-based representation,the units of annotation are pre-defined by a gen-eral frame semantic inventory and systems can read-ily know what kind of units to target as potentialopinion-bearing expressions.
Once inherent seman-tics and pragmatics are distinguished, the correct-ness of inferred (pragmatic) targets and the polaritytowards them can be weighted differently from thatof immediate (semantic) targets and their polarity.Synergy On our approach, lexically inherent sen-timent information need not be annotated, it can beimported automatically once the semantic frame?sroles are annotated.
Only pragmatic informationneeds to be labeled manually.
By expanding theFrameNet inventory and creating annotations, weimprove a lexical resource and create role-semanticannotationsas well as doing sentiment analysis.We have proposed SentiFrameNet as a linguisti-cally sound, deep representation for sentiment anal-ysis, extending an existing resource.
Our approachcomplements pragmatic approaches, allows us tojoin forces with related work in NLP (e.g.
role label-ing, event factuality) and enables new insights intothe theoretical foundations of sentiment analysis.107ReferencesS.
Baccianella, A. Esuli, and F. Sebastiani.
2008.
SEN-TIWORDNET 3.0: An enhanced lexical resourcefor sentiment analysis and opinion mining.
In Pro-ceedings of the Seventh conference on InternationalLanguage Resources and Evaluation LREC10, pages2200?2204.
European Language Resources Associa-tion (ELRA).Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B. Lowe.1998.
The Berkeley Framenet Project.
In Proceed-ings of the 36th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics and 17th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics-Volume 1,pages 86?90.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Alexandra Balahur, Jes?s M. Hermida, and Andr?s Mon-toyo.
2011.
Detecting implicit expressions of senti-ment in text based on commonsense knowledge.
InProceedings of the 2nd Workshop on ComputationalApproaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis(WASSA 2.011), pages 53?60, Portland, Oregon, June.Association for Computational Linguistics.Farah Benamara, Sabatier Irit, Carmine Cesarano, NapoliFederico, and Diego Reforgiato.
2007.
Sentimentanalysis : Adjectives and adverbs are better than ad-jectives alone.
In Proc of Int Conf on Weblogs andSocial Media, pages 1?4.Brett Drury, Ga?l Dias, and Lu?s Torgo.
2011.
A con-textual classification strategy for polarity analysis ofdirect quotations from financial news.
In Proceedingsof the International Conference Recent Advances inNatural Language Processing 2011, pages 434?440,Hissar, Bulgaria, September.
RANLP 2011 OrganisingCommittee.Charles J. Fillmore, Russell Lee-Goldman, and RussellRhodes, to appear.
Sign-based Construction Gram-mar, chapter The FrameNet Constructicon.
CSLI,Stanford, CA.Charles J. Fillmore.
1989.
Grammatical constructiontheory and the familiar dichotomies.
In R. Dietrichand C.F.
Graumann, editors, Language processing insocial context, pages 17?38.
North-Holland/Elsevier,Amsterdam.S.M.
Kim and E. Hovy.
2006.
Extracting opinions, opin-ion holders, and topics expressed in online news mediatext.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Sentiment andSubjectivity in Text, pages 1?8.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Isa Maks and Piek Vossen.
2011.
A verb lexicon modelfor deep sentiment analysis and opinion mining appli-cations.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Com-putational Approaches to Subjectivity and SentimentAnalysis (WASSA 2.011), pages 10?18, Portland, Ore-gon, June.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Karo Moilanen and Stephen Pulman.
2007.
Senti-ment composition.
In Proceedings of RANLP 2007,Borovets, Bulgaria.A.
Neviarouskaya, H. Prendinger, and M. Ishizuka.2009.
Sentiful: Generating a reliable lexicon for senti-ment analysis.
In Affective Computing and IntelligentInteraction and Workshops, 2009.
ACII 2009.
3rd In-ternational Conference on, pages 1?6.
Ieee.J.
Ruppenhofer, S. Somasundaran, and J. Wiebe.
2008.Finding the sources and targets of subjective expres-sions.
In LREC, Marrakech, Morocco.Roser Saur?.
2008.
A Factuality Profiler for Eventualitiesin Text.
Ph.d., Brandeis University.Yohei Seki.
2007.
Crosslingual opinion extraction fromauthor and authority viewpoints at ntcir-6.
In Proceed-ings of NTCIR-6 Workshop Meeting, Tokyo, Japan.Mostafa Shaikh, Helmut Prendinger, and Ishizuka Mit-suru.
2007.
Assessing sentiment of text by semanticdependency and contextual valence analysis.
Affec-tive Computing and Intelligent Interaction, pages 191?202.Veselin Stoyanov and Claire Cardie.
2008.
Topicidentification for fine-grained opinion analysis.
InProceedings of the 22nd International Conference onComputational Linguistics - Volume 1, COLING ?08,pages 817?824, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Veselin Stoyanov and Claire Cardie.
2011.
Auto-matically creating general-purpose opinion summariesfrom text.
In Proceedings of RANLP 2011, pages 202?209, Hissar, Bulgaria, September.Cigdem Toprak, Niklas Jakob, and Iryna Gurevych.2010.
Sentence and expression level annotation ofopinions in user-generated discourse.
In Proceedingsof ACL-10, the 48th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Portland.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Janyce Wiebe and Rada Mihalcea.
2006.
Word sense andsubjectivity.
In Proceedings of the 21st InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics and the 44thannual meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, ACL-44, pages 1065?1072, Stroudsburg,PA, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, and Claire Cardie.
2005.Annotating expressions of opinions and emotionsin language.
Language Resources and Evaluation,39(2/3):164?210.Janyce Wiebe.
2000.
Learning subjective adjectivesfrom corpora.
In Proceedings of the SeventeenthNational Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-2000), pages 735?740, Austin, Texas.108Michael Wiegand.
2010.
Hybrid approaches to senti-ment analysis.
Ph.D. thesis, Saarland University, Saar-br?cken.Theresa Ann Wilson.
2008.
Fine-grained Subjectivityand Sentiment Analysis: Recognizing the Intensity, Po-larity, and Attitudes of Private States.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Pittsburgh.109
