Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2012), pages 172?175,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsFinding small molecule and protein pairs in scientific literature using abootstrapping methodYing Yan, Jee-Hyub Kim, Samuel Croset, Dietrich Rebholz-SchuhmannEuropean Bioinformatics InstituteWellcome Trust Genome CampusHinxtonCambridgeUK{yan, jhkim, croset, rebholz}@ebi.ac.ukAbstractThe relationship between small moleculesand proteins has attracted attention from thebiomedical research community.
In this pa-per a text mining method of extracting small-molecule and protein pairs from natural textis presented, based on a semi-supervised ma-chine learning approach.
The technique hasbeen applied to the complete collection ofMEDLINE abstracts and pairs were extractedand evaluated.
The results show the feasibilityof the bootstrapping system, which will subse-quently be further investigated and improved.1 IntroductionInformation extraction has become a major task intext-mining.
A large number of studies have beencarried out with the objective of developing tech-niques to overcome the highly ambiguous and vari-able nature of natural language for the extraction ofinformation from scientific text (Song et al, 2006).Natural language processing (NLP) of biomedicaltext has been initiated and used for different knowl-edge discovery tasks such as the extraction of rela-tionships between different types of biological ob-jects.Relationships between proteins and smallmolecules are of particular concern in the biomed-ical research domain.
The importance of targetspecific small molecule research is vital in thescientific community?s understanding of numerousbiological processes with potential discoveriesyielding various translational benefits and outcomesto public health and industry.
While there has beena great number of traditional studies already com-pleted in this field, the underlying difficulty with thistype of research has been trying to understand howone molecule interacts with a target protein.
Giventhe biological background, many researchers inCheminformatics and Metabolomics are attemptingto find the connections between small moleculesand other biological entities in order to bridge thechemical and biological domains.Of the few reported text mining approaches to thisproblem, Temkin and Gilder (2003) was concernedwith the extraction of protein and small molecule in-teraction, and used a rule-based approach utilisinga lexical analyser and context free grammar.
Jiaoand Wild (2009) presented a technique for detect-ing protein and small molecule interaction using amaximum entropy based learning method; this workalso uses corpus-based machine learning.
The maindrawback of both of these studies is that they requirea fully annotated corpus which is difficult to gener-ate.1.1 The bootstrapping methodAt present a gold standard annotated corpus is notavailable, and constructing a reasonable annotatedcorpus would require an infeasible amount of man-ual work.
Our proposed solution to this problemis to develop a semi-supervised machine learningmethod.
In this paper a bootstrapping algorithm ispresented which requires only unannotated trainingtexts and a handful of protein small molecule pairs,known as seeds.
The basic work of a bootstrap-ping system can be presented as an expansion en-gine which uses the initial seed pairs fed into the172system to generate patterns that are used, in turn, tofind more pairs.
The operation of the algorithm iscontrolled by certain criteria that are delivered froma measurement of the quality or selectivity of pat-terns and discovered pairs.Bootstrapping systems have been maturely usedfor information extraction purposes in other researchdomains, and it has been empirically shown to bea powerful method in learning lexico-syntactic pat-terns for extracting specific relations (Riloff andJones, 1999).
Bootstrapping systems can operatewith a greatly reduced number of training examples.A bootstrapping system seems promising for thepurpose of relation extraction, making it a suitablecandidate method for protein and small moleculepair extraction.2 ImplementationThe typical bootstrapping method was tailored inorder to improve its suitability for our extractiontask, operating in the biomedical literature resourceMEDLINE.
The bootstrapping architecture is pre-sented in Figure 1.
The whole collection of MED-LINE was filtered using a co-occurrence approachand a named entity recogniser.
In this way thesentences which contained both a protein and asmall molecule were selected.
The structure of pat-terns which are suitable to extract protein and smallmolecule pairs from MEDLINE was defined.
Eachsentence is tokenized and then normalised based onthe results of syntactic parsing in order to obtain amore generalised view of the pattern.
In the fol-lowing sections, we describe in more detail these as-pects.2.1 Protein and small molecule recognitionTwo dictionary-based named entity recogniserswere used to detect the names of proteins and smallmolecules in the full collection of MEDLINE ab-stracts, with the two source dictionaries constructedusing the resources UniProt (Apweiler et al, 2004)and ChEBI (De Matos et al, 2006) respectively.
Thefollowing example shows the two recognisers iden-tify a chemical object and a protein object in a sen-tence from a MEDLINE extract:<chebi>Paracetamol</chebi>, 100 mg/kg, in-hibited <uniprot>COX-1</uniprot> in stomachFigure 1: Extraction system architecturemucosa ex vivo much less effectively than in othertissues.2.2 Sentence analysis for normalisationIt was anticipated that variations in tense and otherlanguage characteristics would cause problems inpattern generation.
We therefore applied a list ofnormalisation steps for pattern generation.
The sur-rounding context in the biomedical text is not nor-mally useful and makes it difficult to identify the textand observe a clear sentence structure.
The parsingresult normalises patterns by eliminating non-usefulcomponents in a sentence.
The step of normalisationhence increases the quality of the pattern.The complete list of normalisation steps is as fol-lows:1.
Replaced the representation of measurementunits, such as mg/L and ml/day.2.
Employed the part-of-speech (POS) tagger GE-NIA (Tsuruoka et al, 2005) to analyse each to-ken, and the tokens which are weakly related tothe sentence structure were removed.
So that,the only remaining tokens are the head noun ofa noun phrase (NP), the verb phrase, and prepo-sitional phrase chunks.3.
Finally a simple rule to identify the head nounwas defined.
In a general case, for a NP se-quence, the last token is considered as the headnoun.
When the last token is a single character,the second last token is considered as the headnoun.173Table 1: An example of a generated patternSeed tuple: Paracetamol, COX-1Found string: ?CHEBI, UNIT, inhibit UNIPROTin mucosa than in tissue.
?Pattern: NP List1, UNIT, inhibit NP List2Constraints: NP List1=?CHEBI*?NP List2=?UNIPROT*?Keywords: ?,UNIT,inhibit?The above example after these normalisationsteps becomes:CHEBI*, UNIT, inhibit UNIPROT* in mucosathan in tissue.where CHEBI* and UNIPROT* are the seeds incontext.2.3 BootstrappingThe bootstrapping system is applied to the nor-malised sentences.
The process starts with 100high precision protein small molecule pairs col-lected from the ChEBI ontology.
These pairs wereretrieved by querying the ChEBI sub-ontology forthe relation ?has role?.
From the resulting data weextracted small molecules that are enzyme inhibitorstogether with the name of the enzyme.2.3.1 Pattern generation and pair extractionThe concept of a bootstrapping system is that us-ing a high precision seed pair to start the extrac-tion engine, the system can effectively learn the pat-tern construction rule and the pattern constraints.Searching for the seed pairs in the corpus returnsstrings which are candidate extraction patterns forother pairs.
The candidate patterns are made up of?slots?
and ?context strings?, where the slots are ei-ther of type small-molecule or protein, and contextis the text connecting the slots and the words imme-diately before and after the pair.
By analysing thesurrounding context of the slots new elements of thepattern are discovered, which can subsequently beused to search for new small-molecule protein pairs.The process of deriving a pattern from the above ex-ample is shown in Table 1.The generated pattern can then be used to searchthe corpus and find other matching contexts.
Newpairs are retrieved from the matching context bysimply locating the protein and small moleculenames from the same positions as they are in the pat-tern.For instance, the pattern produced in Table 1 ismatched against a normalised sentence ?data sug-gest CHEBI, UNIT, inhibit UNIPROT?, extractingthe new pair <trifluoperazine, CaMKII>.2.3.2 Evaluating seeds and patternsThe quality of the pattern is critical since pat-terns that generate a bad pair can introduce morefalse positive seeds.
Therefore, within a bootstrap-ping system it is necessary to have a stage of patternevaluation.
Estimations of the confidence score ofa pattern can be used as one of the stopping criteria.We implemented an evaluation step for both patternsand pairs based on an evaluation method developedby Agichtein and Gravano (2000).
Adapting the ap-proach to this work, if patterni predicts tuple t =<chemical, protein>, and there is already a tuplet?
= <chemical, protein?> with high confidence,and chemical from t is same as chemical from t?,then we could define this as a positive match of pat-tern (Ppositive), otherwise the pattern is consideredas a negative match (Pnegative).
So that the confi-dence score of pattern (P ) is estimated as:Conf(P ) =PpositivePpositive + Pnegative(1)To evaluate the pairs we again employ the methoddescribed by Agichtein and Gravano (2000).
Theconfidence of a particular pair is a function of thenumber of patterns that generate it.
Equation 2shows how to calculate a confidence score for tupleT , where P is the set of patterns that derive T .
Ci isthe context that also contains T , Match(Ci, Pi) isthe degree of match of Ci and Pi.Conf(T ) = 1?
?|P |I=0 (1?
(Conf (Pi) ?
Match (Ci, Pi)))(2)3 Results and discussionTable 2 shows the top 10 generated patterns rankedby the frequency that they appear in MEDLINE.
Ascan be seen the patterns all have very simple struc-tures.
Simple patterns are more likely to be produc-tive, i.e the simpler the structure of the pattern, themore pairs it generates.
However, simple structuresare also likely to generate more false negative pairs.174The pairs produced by these top 10 patterns werecollected, and the confidence score then calculatedusing equation 1.
The result implies that the confi-dence score of a pattern, and in turn the selectivityand productivity of the pattern, are strongly associ-ated with the pattern?s structure.Table 2: The top 10 comment patternsFrequency Pattern Confidence68 UNIPROT* CHEBI* CHEBI 0.1661 CHEBI* UNIPROT* UNIPROT 0.1551 CHEBI* UNIPROT* be 0.1049 CHEBI* UNIPROT* CHEBI 0.1041 UNIPROT* CHEBI* be 0.2140 CHEBI* UNIPROT* 0.0838 UNIPROT* CHEBI* UNIPROT 0.1637 UNIPROT* CHEBI* 0.3026 be CHEBI* UNIPROT* 0.2624 UNIPROT* CHEBI CHEBI* CHEBI 0.173.1 Quality of the extracted pairsOne hundred pairs extracted by first and second gen-eration patterns were randomly selected for manualinspection by a domain expert curator.
It was foundthat over 60% were valid pairs.
From further exami-nation of the cases together with their extraction pat-terns, it can be seen that the patterns have a high con-fidence score, ensuring the quality of the extractedpair.
For instance, from the original text Paraceta-mol, 100 mg/kg, inhibited COX-1 in stomach mucosaex vivo much less effectively than in other tissues, thepattern ?CHEBI*, UNIT, inhibit UNIPROT*?
with0.62 confidence score derives a correct pair <Parac-etamol, COX-1>.Generally speaking, simple patterns are morelikely to have lower confidence scores.
However itwas also found that the pattern quality heavily de-pends on the quality and reliability of the name en-tity recognition (NE) system.4 Conclusions and future workWe have presented a method of detecting smallmolecule and protein pairs in MEDLINE abstracts.It employs semi-supervised machine learning meth-ods to enable patterns to be automatically generated,rather than requiring human input.
The approach canbe used for high throughput text mining applicationswhere manual curation is unrealistic.The first and second iteration of results arepromising and show that the approach enables manyuseful small molecule protein pairs to be extractedfrom MEDLINE using just a small number of seedpairs as input.
The approach makes use of a rigor-ous method of evaluating the quality of generatedpatterns and extracted pairs.
Manual inspection hasbeen used to validate these preliminary results andhas shown that approximately half of the discoveredpairs represent valid small molecule protein relation-ships, and we expect to improve this significantly.In future we will develop the method furtherand analyse the results after further algorithm iter-ations, enabling discovery of new patterns and con-sequently new pairs of proteins and small moleculesthat are currently undetected.ReferencesE.
Agichtein and L. Gravano.
2000.
Snowball: Ex-tracting relations from large plain-text collections.
InProceedings of the fifth ACM conference on Digital li-braries, pages 85?94.
ACM.R.
Apweiler, A. Bairoch, C.H.
Wu, W.C. Barker,B.
Boeckmann, S. Ferro, E. Gasteiger, H. Huang,R.
Lopez, M. Magrane, et al 2004.
UniProt: the uni-versal protein knowledgebase.
Nucleic acids research,32(suppl 1):D115?D119.P.
De Matos, M. Ennis, M. Darsow, M. Guedj, K. Degt-yarenko, and R. Apweiler.
2006.
ChEBI-chemical en-tities of biological interest.
Nucleic Acids Research,Database Summary: 646.D.
Jiao and D.J.
Wild.
2009.
Extraction of CYP chemi-cal interactions from biomedical literature using natu-ral language processing methods.
Journal of chemicalinformation and modeling, 49(2):263?269.E.
Riloff and R. Jones.
1999.
Learning dictionaries forinformation extraction by multi-level bootstrapping.In Proceedings of the National Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence, pages 474?479.
John Wiley & SonsLtd.M.
Song, I.Y.
Song, X. Hu, and H. Han.
2006.
Infor-mation extraction in biomedical literature.
In J. Wang,editor, Encyclopedia of Data Warehousing and DataMining, pages 615?620.
Information Science Refer-ence.J.M.
Temkin and M.R.
Gilder.
2003.
Extractionof protein interaction information from unstructuredtext using a context-free grammar.
Bioinformatics,19(16):2046?2053.Y.
Tsuruoka, Y. Tateishi, J.D.
Kim, T. Ohta, J. McNaught,S.
Ananiadou, and J. Tsujii.
2005.
Developing a ro-bust part-of-speech tagger for biomedical text.
Ad-vances in informatics, pages 382?392.175
