Proceedings of the ACL-2012 Workshop on Extra-Propositional Aspects of Meaning in Computational Linguistics (ExProM-2012),pages 1?9, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 13 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDisfluencies as Extra-Propositional Indicators of Cognitive ProcessingKathryn WomackDept.
of ASL& Interpreting Edu.kaw8159@rit.eduWilson McCoyDept.
of InteractiveGames & Mediawgm4143@rit.eduCecilia Ovesdotter AlmDept.
of Englishcoagla@rit.eduCara CalvelliCollege of HealthSciences & Tech.cfcscl@rit.eduJeff B. PelzCenter forImaging Sciencepelz@cis.rit.eduPengcheng ShiComputing &Information Sciencesspcast@rit.eduAnne HaakeComputing &Information Sciencesanne.haake@rit.eduRochester Institute of TechnologyAbstractWe explore filled pause usage in spontaneousmedical narration.
Expert physicians viewedimages of dermatological conditions and pro-vided a description while working toward adiagnosis.
The narratives were analyzed fordifferences in filled pauses used by attending(experienced) and resident (in-training) physi-cians and by male and female physicians.
At-tending physicians described more and usedmore filled pauses than residents.
No differ-ence was found by speaker gender.
Acousticspeech features were examined for two typesof filled pauses: nasal (e.g.
um) and non-nasal(e.g.
uh).
Nasal filled pauses were more of-ten followed by longer silent pauses.
Scorescapturing diagnostic correctness and diagnos-tic thoroughness for each narrative were com-pared against filled pauses.
The number offilled and silent pauses trends upward as cor-rectness scores increase, indicating a tentativerelationship between filled pause usage andexpertise.
Also, we report on a computationalmodel for predicting types of filled pause.1 IntroductionAlthough they are often not consciously realized,disfluencies are common in everyday speech.
In anoverview of several studies, Fox Tree (1995) esti-mates that approximately 6% of speech is disflu-ent.
Disfluencies include filled pauses, silent pauses,edited or repeated words, and sounds such as clear-ing one?s throat or click noises.
Disfluencies affectthe way that listeners comprehend speech in learn-ing situations (Barr, 2003), formulate opinions ofthe speaker as being more or less fluent (Lo?vgrenand van Doorn, 2005), and even parse grammaticallycomplex sentences (Bailey and Ferreira, 2003).Since disfluencies are generally absent in writ-ten text, they are irrelevant when analyzing text forextra-propositional meaning, such as uncertainty ormodality (Vincze et al, 2008, for example).
In con-trast, when studying meaning in spoken language,disfluencies provide information about a speaker?scognitive state.
For example, they might indicatecognitive load, uncertainty, confidence, thoughtful-ness, problems in reasoning, or stylistic preferencesbetween individuals or groups of individuals.
Westudy filled pauses (e.g.
um and uh) and leave otherdisfluency types for future work.The presence of filled pauses could indicatecontext-dependent facets of cognitive reasoning pro-cesses.
We examine filled pauses present in thespeech of highly-trained dermatologists who wereshown images of dermatological conditions andasked to provide a description and diagnosis.
Welook at the difference between two different typesof filled pauses: those with nasal consonants, suchas um; and those without nasal consonants, such asuh.
We build a computational model to confirm find-ings that nasal and non-nasal filled pauses differ byprosodic and contextual features.
In addition, wefirst compare whether there is a difference betweenfilled pause use for variables such as level of physi-cian expertise and gender.
We also examine the rela-tionship of correctness in the diagnostic process withrespect to filled pause use.There is evidence that filled pauses indicate cog-nitive processing difficulties and could change the1speaker?s intended meaning or the listener?s per-ceived meaning of an utterance.
However, such im-plicit meanings are severely understudied in previ-ous work, especially in specialized, high-stakes do-mains such as medical diagnostics.
Little is under-stood about what factors impact the linguistic behav-ior of using certain filled pauses rather than others,and how the use of filled pauses differs based onlevel of expertise, gender, or diagnostic correctness.Looking into these differences is useful to form abetter understanding of the relationship between lan-guage and specialized decision-making processes.More specifically, it is necessary to improve the un-derstanding of how speakers?
use of filled pausesdiffers based on the context of speech and howthey change the meaning and reception of speech inextra-propositional ways.2 Previous WorkFilled pauses in English include monosyllables withand without nasal consonants, such as um and uh re-spectively.
Filled pauses are most common in un-structured, spontaneous speech, but they are alsopresent in prompted, structured speech; and occurin both monologues and dialogues.Much research has been done into hedging, nega-tion, and other propositional features that changethe meaning or modality of phrases (Morante andSporleder, in press).
Less research has been doneinto the usage of filled pauses and their relation-ship to certainty and speculation.
It has been shownthat disfluencies are used to indicate uncertainty inspeakers?
forthcoming statements or to indicate thatthe speaker is engaged in the discourse but workingto formulate their response (Brennan and Williams,1995; Smith and Clark, 1993).
These studies foundthat speakers less confident of their answers takelonger to answer and use more disfluencies.Recent studies have suggested that disfluenciesprovide meaningful information about the speaker?scognitive or linguistic processes (Arnold et al,2003; Bortfeld et al, 2001; Corley and Stewart,2008; Oviatt, 1995, for example), and are uninten-tional indications that the speaker is having difficultyformulating upcoming speech.More specifically, it has been shown that the twomajor categories of filled pauses, i.e.
nasal and non-nasal, are specific indicators of the level of cognitiveload, with nasal filled pauses indicating higher loadand non-nasal filled pauses indicating lower load.Barr (2001) performed an experiment in which aspeaker described one of several visible images toa listener who then selected the image being de-scribed.
In this study as well as in Barr and Seyfid-dinipur (2010), listeners focused on a topic that wasnew to the discourse or exceptionally complex whenthey heard the speaker say um.
Although they didnot differentiate between nasal and non-nasal filledpauses, Arnold et al (2003; 2007) found in similarexperiments that filled pauses often preceded unfa-miliar or complex objects.There is evidence that speakers use filled pausesto indicate different processing difficulties.
Clarkand Fox Tree (2002) describe four different filledpauses that are annotated in the corpora they use.These are uh, um, and their elongated versions u:hand u:m. They argue that each of these correspondsto a different following pause time with uh beingfollowed by the shortest pause time, then u:h, um,and u:m followed by the longest.
It is important tonote that their primary corpus is the London-LundCorpus of Spoken English, in which the pause timeswere annotated based on the transcriber?s estimate ofpause time in units of ?one light foot?
or ?one stressunit?
(Clark and Fox Tree, 2002, p. 80) rather thanmeasured in seconds.1However, studies on filled pauses by Barr (2001)and Smith and Clark (1993) measured the durationof silent pauses in seconds and confirm that um wasfollowed by longer silent pauses than uh.
The hy-pothesis suggested by Barr, Clark and Fox Tree, andSmith and Clark is that uh indicates a minor delayand lower level of cognitive difficulty while um in-dicates a major delay due to higher level of difficultyin speech planning and production.On the other hand, a study by O?Connell andKowal (2005) refuted the findings of Clark and FoxTree and showed that specific filled pauses couldnot predict pause time in their corpus of TV inter-views.
O?Connell and Kowal?s corpus was six in-terviews conducted by various TV personnel with1The difference between listeners?
perception of durationand actual duration is an important one because perceptual andactual duration do not always match (Megyesi and Gustafson-Capkova, 2002; Spinos et al, 2002).2Hillary Clinton because these ?professional speak-ers?
(O?Connell and Kowal, 2005, p. 560) shouldbe more likely to use filled pauses according to con-vention.
However, speech in public TV interviews islikely to be pre-planned and highly self-monitoredby the speakers, and it may not be appropriate toconsider this situation a model for spontaneous, lessformal, and less public speech.
It has been shownthat rate and use of filled pauses can vary widelywithin certain fields (Schachter et al, 1991), in situ-ations that are more or less structured (Oviatt, 1995),and depending on the formality of the situationalcontext (Bortfeld et al, 2001).3 Data, Annotation, and MethodsData were acquired from a study involving 16 der-matologists, including 12 attending physicians and 4residents.
The participants were evenly split for gen-der.
These physicians were shown 50 images of dif-ferent dermatological conditions and asked to pro-vide a description and diagnosis of each.
In a mod-ification of the Master-Apprentice scenario (Beyerand Holtzblatt, 1997), each observer explained hisor her thoughts and processes to a student who wassilent.
These are monologues; however, the Masterhas the feeling of interaction and of dialogue.Audio of each description was recorded whileeye-movements were tracked.
The relationship be-tween eye-movements and extra-propositional fea-tures will be the topic of a later study.
The audio fileswere manually single-annotated and time-aligned atthe word level in Praat, a software for acoustic andphonetic analysis (Boersma, 2001).
A section ofthe spoken narrative with time-alignment is picturedin Figure 1.
Praat and Python scripts were used tocomputationally extract measurements of pitch, in-tensity, and duration for words, silent pauses, andnarratives.
In total, there were 800 audio-recordednarratives.
At this time, 707 of these narratives havebeen time-aligned and annotated and only these areused in this study.Four transcribers worked independently on time-alignment, and they were given instructions by onecoordinator.
Every spoken token was included inthe transcriptions, including filled pauses, extra-linguistic sounds such as clicks, repairs, and silentpauses.
Annotators were instructed to mark onlyFigure 1: Screenshot of the program Praat which wasused to time-align each narrative and extract acousticprosodic information about the physicians?
speech.silent pauses that were longer than 30 milliseconds,because it has been shown that pauses under 20-30ms are not consistently perceived by listeners in dis-course (Kirsner et al, 2002; Lo?vgren and van Doorn,2005).After word-level time-alignment, each narrativewas independently annotated by three expert derma-tologists who did not participate in the original dataelicitation procedure.
Each narrative was examinedfor medical lesion morphology (the description ofthe condition), differential diagnosis (possible diag-nostic conditions), and final diagnosis (the diagno-sis that the observer found most likely).
These inde-pendent experts annotated the physicians?
diagnosticcorrectness for the three steps of the diagnostic pro-cess.
They annotated medical lesion morphology ascorrect, incorrect, correct but incomplete, or none,indicating that no medical morphology was given.Final diagnosis was labeled as correct, incorrect, ornone, and differential diagnosis was rated as yes, no,or no differential given.
An analysis of the annotateddata set is discussed by McCoy et al (Forthcoming2012).4 Results and Discussion4.1 Types of Filled PausesNasal filled pauses included hm and um and non-nasal filled pauses included ah, er, and uh.
We an-alyzed nasal and non-nasal filled pauses as groupsrather than each individual filled pause because thenumber of filled pauses within each category was notbalanced.
Higher token counts of uh and um wereidentified, with fewer ah, er, and hm filled pauses.
Incomparing use of nasal and non-nasal filled pauses,3FPs No.
Dur.
St. Dev.
%hm 78 0.48 s 0.20 2%um 1439 0.51 s 0.19 36%Total(nasal)1517 0.50 s 0.19 38%ah 23 0.46 s 0.23 1%er 9 0.26 s 0.09 <1%uh 2401 0.36 s 0.16 61%Total (non-nasal)2433 0.36 s 0.16 62%Total (all) 3950 0.42 s 0.19 100%Table 1: Total number of each type of filled pause (FPs)with mean duration in seconds, standard deviation of themean duration, and percentage of all filled pauses.we considered all 707 narratives.
The number of to-kens and average duration for each filled pause isgiven in Table 1.The average filled pause duration was slightlylonger for nasal than for non-nasal, likely due to thesegmental quality.In total, 38% of the filled pauses in our data set arenasal.
However, observers vary widely in their indi-vidual usage, from one observer who used 22 non-nasal (10%) and 189 nasal (90%) filled pauses to anobserver at the other extreme who used 562 non-nasal (97%) and only 19 nasal (3%) filled pauses.Some people seem to have a tendency to use onetype of filled pause over the other.Clark and Fox Tree (2002) found that nasal filledpauses were more often followed by silent pausesand that those silences were on average longer thanthat of non-nasal filled pauses.
Our data are consis-tent with this as shown in Tables 2 and 3,2 and Fig-ure 2.
Of the total nasal filled pauses, 70% were fol-lowed by a silent pause, whereas only 41% of non-nasal filled pauses were followed by a silent pause.The mean duration of silent pauses followingnasal filled pauses was 1.5 s while non-nasal was 1.1s, which indicates a difference significant enoughthat it could be recognized by a listener.
These find-ings show that nasal filled pauses are good indica-tors of continuing delay, which supports Clark andFox Tree?s hypothesis that nasal and non-nasal filled2The data were analyzed using two-sample t-tests assumingunequal variances.Nasal(hm, um)Non-nasal(ah, er, uh)pDur.
of FPs 0.50 s 0.36 s < 0.01Dur.
of FPs +SILs2.46 s 1.37 s < 0.01No.
of FPs 1517 2433 n/aTable 2: Mean duration in seconds of filled pauses (FPs),and mean duration of the filled pause including the spanof any preceding and following silences.
If there were nosilences, only the duration of the filled pause was used tocalculate the mean.Nasal(hm, um)Non-nasal(ah, er, uh)pDur.
of pre.SILs1.19 s 1.15 s 0.4No.
of pre.SILs1167 1197 n/aDur.
of foll.SILs1.50 s 1.07 s < 0.01No.
of foll.SILs1059 1006 n/aTable 3: Mean duration in seconds of silent pauses (SILs)preceding filled pauses, silent pauses following filledpauses, and the number of tokens for each.
Durationswere only considered if there was a silence, so the num-ber of silences was different for each calculation.Figure 2: The percentage of nasal and non-nasal filledpauses with a preceding silent pause, following silentpause, and a silent pause both preceding and following.pauses are used to indicate different levels of diffi-culty in speech planning.
Taken with the results ofexperiments by Barr (2001) that nasal filled pausesare more often used before a topic that is relatively4complex or new to discourse, it seems that nasalfilled pauses indicate a higher level of cognitive dif-ficulty than non-nasal filled pauses.In their previously-mentioned study, Clark andFox Tree also found that nasal filled pauses weremore often preceded by delays and that those delayswere longer.
Similarly, in our data 77% of the nasalfilled pauses were preceded by silences, comparedwith 49% of non-nasal.No difference was found in the mean duration ofpreceding silences, however.
Although this conclu-sion is tentative, it seems that the duration of thepreceding pause could be the maximum length ofsilence a speaker feels is permissible before needingto indicate their continuing participation in the dis-course.
This supports Jefferson?s (1989) findings ofa ?standard maximum silence?
of around 1 secondin discourse.
At that point, the speaker could needto signal that they have more to say, using a nasalfilled pause if they anticipate a long delay or a non-nasal filled pause if they anticipate a shorter delay.The longer duration of surrounding silent pauses fornasal filled pauses also supports the conclusion thatthey indicate higher cognitive load and more pre-planning.
This critical finding highlights the im-portance of considering filled pauses in computa-tional modeling and hint at their potential usefulnessacross phenomena of extra-propositional meaning.4.2 GenderTraditional stereotypes have held that women areless confident speakers than men.
When women andmen use the same number of hedge words or mod-ifiers, women are judged more harshly as soundingpassive or uncertain (Bradley, 1981).
Although dif-ferent rates and ratios of filled pauses were identi-fied, Acton (2011), Binnenpoorte et al (2005), andBortfeld et al (2001) all found that women used alower rate of filled pauses than men.
Acton alsofound that women consistently used a higher ratioof nasal filled pauses.Our data were analyzed at the level of diagnosticnarrative based on the means of: number of filledpauses, filled pauses per second, the percentage offilled pauses (i.e.
the rate per 100 words), the num-ber of nasal filled pauses, and the percentage of nasalfilled pauses.
The difference between the means wasnot statistically significant, confirmed by the com-puted p-score.3 Hence, our data do not support a dif-ference in men?s and women?s use of filled pauses.There are several possible explanations for this.For example, it has been shown that women tendto be more conscious of their speaking style thanmen because they are aware of the stereotyping men-tioned previously (Gordon, 1994), and they maymake more effort to speak clearly.
Acton (2011) andBortfeld et al (2001) noted different usage of filledpauses by men and women in different situations.Whereas our results point to gender neutrality andrefute the common gender bias as well as findingsof previous studies, we recognize that our resultscould reflect that this study involved a largely ho-mogeneous professional and educational group.
Thestudies mentioned thus far used corpora consistingof casual conversations in various situations with in-dividuals of various backgrounds.
Further researchinto gender differences in expert fields could clarifythis factor further.4.3 Level of ExpertiseOur data were analyzed based on the means per nar-rative, similar to Section 4.2, but comparing levelsof expertise (attending versus resident physicians).Attending physicians?
narratives had a longer meanduration and significantly more words.
Attendingphysicians also used more filled pauses, a higher rateof filled pauses per 100 words, and a higher percent-age of nasal filled pauses (see Table 4).4One probable explanation for the difference is thatthe experienced attendings noticed more about theimage, leading them to give more information abouttheir thought processes and go into more detail thanresidents.
It is possible also that the attendings?experience could have provided them with a largerconceptual space and options to explore.
This ex-plains the longer narrative time and the higher num-ber of words used.
Many of the dermatologicalterms used are highly complex and may require ex-planation on the part of the observer, and other stud-3The mean of each category was determined for each ob-server, and then analyzed using a two-sample t-test.
In total, wehad 355 narratives from males and 352 from females.4These results were calculated using the mean of each ob-server and each narrative.
A paired t-test was used to comparemeans for residents on each image against means for attendingson each image.5For Narra-tivesAttendings?MeansResidents?MeanspTotal Dur.
46.1 s 33.8 s < 0.01No.
of Words 85.7 50.9 < 0.01No.
of FPs 6.3 1.9 < 0.01% FPs 8% 4% < 0.01% Nasal FPs 0.4% 0.2% < 0.01Table 4: Analysis considered, at the narrative level, at-tending and resident physicians?
mean total duration,number of words (including filled and silent pauses),number of filled pauses (FPs), percentage of filled pausesof total words (total words includes pauses; withoutpauses, this rate would be higher), and percentage ofnasal filled pauses of total filled pauses.ies have found that the filled pause rate increases asthe utterance length increases (Oviatt, 1995; Bort-feld et al, 2001), so one would expect to see morefilled pauses used in longer descriptions.One issue with our data is that the number of at-tending physicians and the number of resident physi-cians is not balanced.
We had 592 narratives done by12 attendings and 115 done by 4 residents.
All val-ues were calculated using means so the values arenot weighted based on the number of narratives ana-lyzed.
However, we have previously mentioned thatpersonal preference plays a role in the usage of filledpauses, and we have a wider variety of attending ob-servers than resident observers.
It could be that ourresident observers happened to be the kinds of peo-ple who do not use many filled pauses.4.4 Diagnostic CorrectnessThree scores were determined for each narrative.The first score was the holistic expert score providedby the expert annotators, based on ?relevancy, thor-oughness, and accuracy?
of each narrative from 1to 3 with 3 being the best.
The second score wasan overall correctness score which spanned from0 to 3, with one-third of a point given per inde-pendent annotator for each step (i.e.
medical lesionmorphology, differential diagnosis, and final diag-nosis) if correct and 13 ?
0.5 points given for cor-rect but incomplete.
The last score was the not-given score which, similar to the correctness score,spanned from 0 to 3 with one-third of a point givenper annotator for each step if the original observerFigure 3: Average number of filled pauses per narrativeby observer (y-axis) against the holistic expert score, cor-rectness score, and not-given score (x-axis).did not provide that information.5Correlation between these three scores and thenumber or rate of words, filled pauses, and silentpauses was not strong enough to make predictions,indicating that more factors than just the scoresshould be considered.
However, certain trends wereevident.
As the holistic expert and correctnessscores improved, the means of narratives?
total du-ration in seconds and total number of words also in-creased.
This finding, combined with the fact thatexperienced physicians spoke more and had higheraverage correctness and expert scores, indicates thatverbal behavior can reflect both heightened concep-tual knowledge and level of expertise.The number of filled pauses per narrative, num-ber of silent pauses per narrative, and the total dura-tion of filled and silent pauses (per narrative) also in-creased as the holistic expert and correctness scoresimproved and the not-given score decreased.
Thegraph of filled pauses in Figure 3 indicates that theincrease in the number of filled and silent pauses in-volve more cognitive processing.
That the not-givenscore tends to inversely decrease could indicate verylittle cognitive processing (e.g., if an observer wasso unsure that they did not even hazard a guess).The number and percentage of nasal filled pauses,as opposed to non-nasal filled pauses, increased at5There was not a strong correlation between the holistic ex-pert, correctness, and not-given scores, but each score measureddifferent criteria.
The mean holistic expert score was 2.3 witha standard deviation of 0.5; the mean correctness score was 1.6with a standard deviation of 0.8; and the mean not-given scorewas 0.26 with a standard deviation of 0.16.6a slightly higher rate as the holistic expert and cor-rectness scores increased.
This could indicate thatnasal filled pauses indicate a higher cognitive loadand therefore more consideration in the decision-making process.
However, as discussed in Section4.1, this corpus has more non-nasal than nasal filledpauses and some observers have a particular prefer-ence, so this would need to be controlled and inves-tigated further.5 Computational Model of Filled PausesBased on Speech FeaturesA computational model was developed to classifyfilled pauses as either nasal or non-nasal,6 basedon features discussed in our analysis and in previ-ous work.
This model performs above a majorityclass baseline, supporting our findings that there aredifferences between the two types of filled pauses,given the features that we have examined, which canbe captured by a computational model.The features considered for classification weretotal duration and number of words in the narra-tive; duration, intensity, mean pitch, minimum pitch,and maximum pitch of the filled pause;7 the filledpause?s time and word position in the narrative; timeand word position as a percentage of the total narra-tive; and length of silent pauses8 on each side of thefilled pause.
The CFS subset evaluation features se-lection algorithm was first applied.
The filled pauseduration, maximum pitch, left silence length, andright silence length were maintained as features forclassification; other features were not used further.The widely used J48 decision tree algorithm inWeka9 was used to classify our data, which allowedus to visualize our model.
The experimental ap-proach was guided by the relatively small size ofthe dataset.
We wanted to avoid over- or under-interpretation of results based on just a small held-out test set.
The data were shuffled and partitioneddifferently during tuning and testing to ensure dis-6We also made a fine-grained model to classify specificfilled pauses ah, er, hm, uh, and um.
It had 70% accuracy butwas generally unable to identify the least-often occurring ah, er,and hm filled pauses, so it is not reported on here.7Pitch features were extracted considering gender: 75-300Hz for men and a 100-500 Hz for women.8If there was no silence, the value was 0.9See http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/.PredictedNasal Non-nasalActual Nasal 900 617Non-nasal 462 1971Table 5: Confusion matrix of classification results.tinct identities of the data splits so that parameterswere not tuned on test folds.
The algorithm?s pa-rameters were tuned using 5-fold cross-validation;the best-performing fold?s parameters were chosen.The data were then shuffled anew and split into 10folds with each fold being the test set for one experi-mental run.
Results are reported on the final 10-foldcross-validation case.The baseline for this model was 62% because themajority class, non-nasal filled pauses, comprisedthat percentage of the data set.
Our model cor-rectly classified 73% of the instances, performing11% above the baseline.
A confusion matrix of theclassifier output is shown in Table 5.
The model per-forms best for non-nasal filled pauses, likely becausethey are more common.The output of the decision tree indicated that du-ration of the filled pause was the most important fea-ture.
As discussed in Section 4.1, this correspondswith our previous statistical findings as well as thoseof Clark and Fox Tree (2002) that there is a differ-ence in duration of filled pauses.
The next mostimportant features were the left and right silencelengths, also supported by our analysis as well asby Clark and Fox Tree (2002) and Barr (2001).
Thelast selected feature was the maximum pitch of thefilled pause, possibly due to phonemic qualities.This computational model mirrors the findings ofSection 4.1 that the duration of filled pauses and ofsurrounding silent pauses are a differentiating fac-tor between nasal and non-nasal filled pauses andthat the contextual surroundings of each filled pausetype are different.
The finding that the two distincttypes of filled pauses behave differently in this do-main could also aid language processing systems forclinicians in the medical field.
Further research intofilled pause and other speech phenomena in eachstep of the diagnostic process (i.e.
medical lesionmorphology, differential diagnosis, and final diag-nosis) could also be explored in future work.76 ConclusionThe results of this study underscore the need for fur-ther research into the production of disfluencies, es-pecially in decision making situations and in special-ized fields such as dermatology.
Future work willfurther explore their connection with highly relevantextra-propositional meaning phenomena in diagnos-tic verbal behaviors such as certainty, confidence,correctness, and thoroughness.This study has shown that the two main types offilled pauses, nasal and non-nasal, differ in their us-age.
Nasal filled pauses are more likely to be pre-ceded and followed by silent pauses, and these fol-lowing silent pauses are more likely to be longer.These findings are reinforced by the computationalmodel which identified the duration of the filledpause, duration of surrounding silences, and pitchas important for classification of filled pause type.That longer and more frequent silent pauses sur-round nasal filled pauses supports the hypothesisthat nasal filled pauses indicate a higher level of cog-nitive load (Clark and Fox Tree, 2002) or a topic thatis new to the discourse or unusually complex (Barr,2001; Barr and Seyfiddinipur, 2010).The lack of differences in use of filled pauses byspeaker gender given the differences found by Ac-ton (2011), Binnenpoorte et al (2005), and Bortfeldet al (2001) shows that more research is needed tounderstand gender variation in speech.Another finding was that level of expertise in-fluenced the use of filled pauses and overall narra-tive length.
On average, attending physicians spokelonger, said more, used more filled pauses, and hada higher percentage of nasal filled pauses.
Attend-ing physicians also had slightly higher holistic ex-pert and correctness scores and were more likely toprovide medical lesion morphology, differential di-agnosis, and final diagnosis.
We believe that attend-ing physicians likely noticed more about the imagesdue to their experience.The differences by level of expertise (in our study,between attending and resident physicians) need tobe verified and compared with more data and in non-medical fields.
The differences could also be re-lated to teaching experience of the attending physi-cians, so further research could compare experi-enced physicians who are also teachers with thosewho are not, and if their speaking style affects stu-dents?
comprehension.
In general, differences in lin-guistic behaviors in relation to levels of expertisedeserve more research, and might have long-termimplications for development of clinical decision-support and training systems.The information used by the physicians in ourstudy was limited; they were only shown imagesof dermatological conditions without being able toexamine the patient, run diagnostic tests, or havea patient history.
This may have changed theirthe behavior, along with factors such as the dif-ficulty of diagnosis of each image and their rolein the Master-Apprentice scenario.
Understandinghow these variables affect the diagnostic processof physicians could help us understand how disflu-encies are impacted by the contexts of diagnosticdecision-making.The differences found between the use of filledpauses based on level of expertise and on the correct-ness of narratives seem to indicate that filled pausescould provide partial information about the experts?decision-making process as well as level of confi-dence and certainty.
This is especially importantin the medical domain in order to understand howphysicians?
verbal behaviors are interpreted by otherphysicians as well as by patients and students.We recently collected a similar, larger data set andwe plan to further examine differences based on ex-pertise in this new corpus.
In the recent data collec-tion, observers were also asked to rate their level ofcertainty about the diagnosis.
This provides the op-portunity to examine the relationship between disflu-encies and certainty.
We have eye-tracking data forboth studies and future work will also look at eye-movements in relation to the use of filled and silentpauses, certainty, expertise level, and cognitive load.AcknowledgementsSupported in part by NIH 1 R21 LM010039-01A1,NSF IIS-0941452, RIT GCCIS Seed Funding, andRIT Research Computing (http://rc.rit.edu).
Wethank Lowell A. Goldsmith, M.D.
and the anony-mous reviewers for their comments, and Dr. Rube?nProan?o for input on statistical analysis.8ReferencesEric K. Acton.
2011.
On gender differences in the dis-tribution of um and uh.
University of PennsylvaniaWorking Papers in Linguistics, 17(2).Jennifer E. Arnold, Maria Fagnano, and Michael K.Tanenhaus.
2003.
Disfluencies signal theee, um, newinformation.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research,32(1):25?36.Jennifer E. Arnold, Carla L. Hudson Kam, andMichael K. Tanenhaus.
2007.
If you say thee uh youare describing something hard: The on-line attributionof disfluency during reference comprehension.
Jour-nal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory,and Cognition, 33(5):914?930.Karl G.D. Bailey and Fernanda Ferreira.
2003.
Disfluen-cies affect the parsing of garden-path sentences.
Jour-nal of Memory and Language, 49:183?200.Dale J. Barr and Mandana Seyfiddinipur.
2010.
The roleof fillers in listener attributes for speaker disfluency.Language and Cognitive Processes, 25(4):441?455.Dale J. Barr.
2001.
Trouble in mind: Paralinguisticindices of effort and uncertainty in communication.Oralite?
and gestualite?
: Communication Multimodale,Interaction, pages 597?600.Dale J. Barr.
2003.
Paralinguistic correlates of con-ceptual structure.
Psychonomic Bulletin & Review,10(2):462?467.Hugh Beyer and Karen Holtzblatt.
1997.
Contextual De-sign: Defining Customer-Centered Systems.
MorganKaufmann.Diana Binnenpoorte, Christophe Van Bael, Els den Os,and Lou Boves.
2005.
Gender in everyday speech andlanguage: A corpus-based study.
Interspeech, pages2213?2216.Paul Boersma.
2001.
Praat, a system for doing phoneticsby computer.
Glot International, pages 341?345.Heather Bortfeld, Silvia D. Leon, Johnathan E. Bloom,Michael F. Schober, and Susan E. Brennan.
2001.Disfluency rates in conversation: Effects of age, re-lationship, topic, role, and gender.
Language andSpeech, 44(2):123?147.Patricia Hayes Bradley.
1981.
The folk-linguistics ofwomen?s speech: an empirical investigation.
Commu-nication Monographs, 48(1):78?91.Susan E. Brennan and Maurice Williams.
1995.
Thefeeling of another?s knowing: Prosody and filledpauses as cues to listeners about the metacognitivestates of speakers.
Journal of Memory and Language,34:383?398.Herbert H. Clark and Jean E. Fox Tree.
2002.
Using uhand um in spontaneous speaking.
Cognition, 84:73?111.Martin Corley and Oliver W. Stewart.
2008.
Hesitationdisfluencies in spontaneous speech: The meaning ofum.
Lang.
and Linguistics Compass, 2(4):589?602.Jean E. Fox Tree.
1995.
The effects of false starts andrepetitions on the processing of subsequent words inspontaneous speech.
Journal of Memory and Lan-guage, 34:709?738.Elizabeth Gordon.
1994.
Sex differences in language:Another explanation?
American Speech, 69(2):215?221.Gail Jefferson.
1989.
Notes on a possible metric whichprovides for a ?standard maximum?
silence of approx-imately one second in conversation.
In Derek Rogerand Peter Bull, editors, Conversation, chapter 8, pages166?196.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, UK.Kim Kirsner, John Dunn, Kathryn Hird, Tim Parkin, andCraig Clark.
2002.
Time for a pause.
Proc.
of the9th Australian Int?l.
Conf.
on Speech Science & Tech.,pages 52?57.Tobias Lo?vgren and Jan van Doorn.
2005.
Influence ofmanipulation of short silent pause duration on speechfluency.
Proceedings of DiSS05, pages 123?126.Wilson McCoy, Cecilia Ovesdotter Alm, Cara Calvelli,Jeff Pelz, Pengcheng Shi, and Anne Haake.Forthcoming-2012.
Linking uncertainty in physi-cians?
narratives to diagnostic correctness.
Proc.
ofthe ExProM 2012 Workshop.Beata Megyesi and Sofia Gustafson-Capkova.
2002.Production and perception of pauses and their linguis-tic context in read and spontaneous speech in Swedish.ICSLP 7.Roser Morante and Caroline Sporleder.
in press.
Modal-ity and negation: An introduction to the special issue.Computational Linguistics.Daniel C. O?Connell and Sabine Kowal.
2005. uhand um revisited: Are they interjections for signal-ing delay?
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research,34(6):555?576.Sharon Oviatt.
1995.
Predicting and managing spo-ken disfluencies during human-computer interaction.Computer Speech and Language, 9:19?35.Stanley Schachter, Nicholas Christenfeld, Bernard Rav-ina, and Frances Bilous.
1991.
Speech disfluency andthe structure of knowledge.
JPSP, 60(3):362?367.Vicki L. Smith and Herbert H. Clark.
1993.
On thecourse of answering questions.
Journal of Memoryand Language, 32:25?38.Anna-Marie R. Spinos, Daniel C. O?Connell, and SabineKowal.
2002.
An empirical investigation of pause no-tation.
Pragmatics, 12(1):1?9.Veronika Vincze, Gyo?rgy Szarvas, Richa?rd Farkas,Gyo?rgy Mo?ra, and Ja?nos Csirik.
2008.
The bioscopecorpus: Biomedical texts annotated for uncertainty,negation, and their scopes.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9.9
