NAACL-HLT 2012 Workshop on Future directions and needs in the Spoken Dialog Community: Tools and Data, pages 15?16,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsIncremental Spoken Dialogue Systems: Tools and DataHelen Hastie, Oliver Lemon, Nina DethlefsThe Interaction Lab, School of Mathematics and Computer ScienceHeriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, UK EH14 4ASh.hastie, o.lemon, n.s.dethlefs@hw.ac.ukAbstractStrict-turn taking models of dialogue do notaccurately model human incremental process-ing, where users can process partial input andplan partial utterances in parallel.
We discussthe current state of the art in incremental sys-tems and propose tools and data required forfurther advances in the field of IncrementalSpoken Dialogue Systems.1 Incremental Spoken Dialogue SystemsFor Spoken Dialogue Systems (SDS) to be more fre-quently adopted, advances in the state-of-the-art arenecessary to enable highly responsive and conversa-tional systems.
Traditionally, the unit of speech hasbeen a whole utterance with strict, rigid turn-takingdetermined by a voice-activity detector.
However,a large body of psycholinguistic literature indicatesthat human-human interaction is in fact incremen-tal (Tanenhaus and Brown-Schmidt, 2008; Levelt,1989).
Using a whole utterance as the unit of choicemakes dialogues longer, unnatural and stilted and ul-timately interferes with a user?s ability to focus ontheir goal (Allen et al, 2001).A new generation of Incremental SDS (ISDS) arebeing developed that deal with ?micro-turns?
(sub-utterance processing units) resulting in dialoguesthat are more fluid and responsive.
Recent workhas shown that processing smaller ?chunks?
of inputand output can improve the user experience (Aist etal., 2007; Skantze and Schlangen, 2009; Buss et al,2010; Baumann et al, 2011; Selfridge et al, 2011).Incrementality enables the system designer to modelseveral dialogue phenomena that play a vital rolein human discourse (Levelt, 1989) but have so farbeen absent from systems.
These include morenatural turn-taking through rapid system responses,grounding through the generation of backchannelsand feedback, and barge-ins (from both user and sys-tem).
In addition, corrections and self-correctionsthrough constant monitoring of user and system ut-terances play an important role, enabling the systemto recover smoothly from a recognition error or achange in user?s preferences.
Some examples of thephenomena we are targeting are given in Figure 1.Parlance, a FP7 EC project1, is currently develop-ing incremental systems for English and Mandarin.The goal of Parlance is to develop mobile, interac-tive, ?hyper-local?
search through speech.
Recenttrends in Information Retrieval are towards incre-mental, interactive search.
Spoken dialogue systemscan provide a truly natural medium for this type ofsearch, in particular for people on the move.2 Tools and DataThe emphasis of the Parlance project is on data-driven techniques for ISDS, thereby addressing theproblem of a lack of data for system develop-ment.
Although incremental dialogue phenomenadescribed in Figure 1 have been observed in human-human dialogue, more task-based data is needed.
Itis challenging to fabricate a situation where usersproduce incremental discourse phenomena as in Fig-ure 1 frequently and in a natural manner.
Wizard-1http://www.parlance-project.eu15Backchannels (when the user pauses)USR I want Italian food [500 ms] in the centre of town .
.
.SYS uh-huhSYS OK.
I found 24 Italian restaurants in the city centre.
Therestaurant Roma is in the medium price range,.
.
.Self-correction (the system made a mistake)USR I want Italian food in the centre of town .
.
.SYS OK.
I found 35 Indian restaurants .
.
.USR No, I want Italian.SYS oh sorry .
.
.SYS I have 24 Italian restaurants in the city centre .
.
.Holding the floorUSR I want cheap Italian food .
.
.SYS ok let me seeSYS I have 3 cheap Italian places .
.
.Figure 1: Incremental phenomena observed in human-human dialogue that systems should be able to model.of-Oz experiments can be used to collect data fromthe system side, but user-initiated phenomena, suchas the user changing his/her mind are more difficultto instigate.
Therefore, data collections of naturallyoccurring incremental phenomena in human-humansettings will be essential for further development ofincremental systems.
Such data can inform user sim-ulations which provide means of training stochasticSDS with less initial data and can compensate fordata sparsity.
For example, in Dethlefs et al (2012)the user simulation can change its mind and react todifferent NLG strategies such as giving informationwith partial input or waiting for complete input fromthe user.
Both the academic community and industrywould benefit from open access data, such as will becollected in the Parlance project and made availableto the dialogue community2.
There would also needto be a clear path from academic research on ISDSto industry standards such as VoiceXML to facilitateadoption.Various components and techniques of ISDS areneeded to handle ?micro-turns?.
Challenges hereinclude recognizing and understanding partial userinput and back-channels; micro-turn dialogue man-agement that can decide when to back-channel, self-correct and hold-the-floor; incremental NLG thatcan generate output while the user is still talking;2As was done for CLASSiC project data at:http://www.macs.hw.ac.uk/iLabArchive/CLASSiCProject/Data/login.phpand finally more flexible TTS that can handle barge-in and understand when it has been interrupted.In summary, in order to achieve highly natural,responsive incremental systems, we propose usingdata-driven techniques, for which the main issue islack of data.
Carefully crafted task-based human-human data collection and WoZ studies, user simu-lations, shared data archives, and upgraded industrystandards are required for future work in this field.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to this work has received fund-ing from the EC?s FP7 programme: (FP7/2011-14)under grant agreement no.
287615 (PARLANCE).ReferencesGregory Aist, James Allen, Ellen Campana, LucianGalescu, Carlos Gomez Gallo, Scott Stoness, MarySwift, and Michael Tanenhaus.
2007.
Software ar-chitectures for incremental understanding of humanspeech.
In Proceedings of SemDial / DECALOG.James Allen, George Ferguson, and Amanda Stent.
2001.An Architecture For More Realistic ConversationalSystems.
In Proc.
of Intelligent User Interfaces.Timo Baumann, Okko Buss, and David Schlangen.
2011.Evaluation and Optimisation of Incremental Proces-sors.
Dialogue and Discourse, 2(1).Okko Buss, Timo Baumann, and David Schlangen.
2010.Collaborating on Utterances with a Spoken DialogueSysten Using an ISU-based Approach to IncrementalDialogue Management.
In Proc.
of SIGDIAL.Nina Dethlefs, Helen Hastie, Verena Rieser, and OliverLemon.
2012.
Optimising Incremental Generationfor Spoken Dialogue Systems: Reducing the Need forFillers.
In Proc of INLG, Chicago, Illinois, USA.Willem Levelt.
1989.
Speaking: From Intenion to Artic-ulation.
MIT Press.Ethan Selfridge, Iker Arizmendi, Peter Heeman, and Ja-son Williams.
2011.
Stability and Accuracy in Incre-mental Speech Recognition.
In Proc.
of SigDial.Gabriel Skantze and David Schlangen.
2009.
Incremen-tal Dialogue Processing in a Micro-Domain.
In Proc.of EACL, Athens, Greece.M.K.
Tanenhaus and S. Brown-Schmidt.
2008.
Lan-guage processing in the natural world.
In B.C.MMoore, L.K.
Tyler, and W.D.
Marslen-Wilson, edi-tors, The perception of speech: from sound to meaning,pages 1105?1122.16
