Proceedings of the 6th EACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 45?54,Avignon, France, 24 April 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDistributional techniques for philosophical enquiryAure?lie HerbelotInstitut fu?r LinguistikUniversita?t PotsdamKarl-Liebknecht-Str.
24-2514476 Golm, Germanyaurelie.herbelot@cantab.netEva von RedeckerInstitut fu?r PhilosophieHumboldt Universita?tUnter den Linden 610099 Berlin, Germanyredeckee@hu-berlin.deJohanna Mu?llerInstitut fu?r PhilosophieHumboldt Universita?tUnter den Linden 610099 Berlin, Germanyjohannammueller@gmail.comAbstractThis paper illustrates the use of distribu-tional techniques, as investigated in compu-tational semantics, for supplying data fromlarge-scale corpora to areas of the human-ities which focus on the analysis of con-cepts.
We suggest that the distributional no-tion of ?characteristic context?
can be seenas evidence for some representative tenden-cies of general discourse.
We present a casestudy where distributional data is used byphilosophers working in the areas of gen-der studies and intersectionality as confir-mation of certain trends described in pre-vious work.
Further, we highlight that dif-ferent models of phrasal distributions canbe compared to support the claim of inter-sectionality theory that ?there is more to aphrase than the intersection of its parts?.1 IntroductionResearch in the social sciences rely heavily on lin-guistic analysis.
Since what came to be called the?linguistic turn?
(Rorty, 1967) researchers acrossall humanities subjects have been highly aware ofthe fact that our access to the world, let alne cul-tural artefacts, is mediated by language and castin our conceptual scheme.Guided by the theory originating in Wittgen-stein?s Philosophical Investigations (1953), oneof the basic assumptions in contemporary analyticphilosophy is now that the meaning of words isgiven by their usage in ordinary language.
Con-ceptual analysis, i.e.
the process of making ex-plicit the rules that guide the applicability of a cer-tain term, consequently forms a major occupationof the philosophical profession.
The method ex-emplified by the French philosopher Michel Fou-cault ?
discourse analysis ?
has become paradig-matic in the social sciences and cultural studiesand constitutes a diachronic, historical version ofthe linguistic turn.
One of the fundamental as-sumptions of this approach is that different erasproduce different frameworks (or ?episteme?
inFoucault?s terminology; see Foucault 1970) forunderstanding reality.
Such frameworks manifestthemselves as discursive patterns or specific for-mulations.
According to Foucault, social powerand the silencing of deviating utterances guaran-tee the temporary stability of a particular socialregime.
A similar methodology was pursued bythe ?Cambridge School?
of political theorists andhistorians, who tried to trace back the emergenceof concepts like ?state?
or ?liberty?
not only to theideas of a few canonical thinkers but to the or-dinary use of those terms at the time (hence thisapproach is called ?contextualism?, see Pocock1975; Skinner 1998).So far, such research has relied both on ex-tensive manual work and on linguistic introspec-tion.
Manual methods, however, have clear draw-backs: they are time-consuming, expensive andlikely to introduce bias in the data.
This papersuggests that distributional techniques, as usedin computational lexical semantics, may hold thekey to automating the process of discourse analy-sis just described.
We present a case study in phi-losophy, where two standard problems (the anal-ysis of power in gender structures and the is-sue of so-called intersectionality) are reviewedin the light of distributional data.
Not only dothe produced distributions offer a rational wayto highlight characteristic relationships betweenconcepts, using an amount of data far greater thanwhat could be annotated manually, but we show45that building on the relatively recent and novel re-search in composing distributions (Clark and Pul-man, 2007), we can computationally illustrate themain thesis advocated by researchers on intersec-tionality.This paper has a slightly unconventional for-mat.
We hope to exemplify a certain type of possi-ble collaboration between computational linguis-tics and the humanities, which is less about pro-viding an application to solve a particular prob-lem than about drawing parallels between certainlinguistic representations, known to have certainproperties, and humanities-based theories.
Wefelt that a fair amount of philosophical back-ground was needed to show the relevance of oursystem?s data to the particular type of investiga-tion presented here.
Therefore, a comprehensivephilosophical introduction is given in ?2.
We thendescribe the system and corpus underpinning ourresearch (?3 and 4) and discuss the theoretical as-pects of lexical composition from a computationalpoint of view, drawing parallels with the philo-sophical theory of intersectionality.
Sections 5and 6 discuss the worth of the data from a philo-sophical point of view.2 Two philosophical problems2.1 Gender and powerFor a feminist philosopher, as for many peopleworking in critical theory, the aim of researchis twofold.
First, to understand a given socialstructure, as for example the dynamics of gen-der relations and identities; second, to transformthat structure towards greater freedom and equal-ity.
From its formation as an academic disciplinein the second half of the 20th century onwards,one of the main concerns of feminist theory hasbeen to show how social and institutional (man-made) factors have shaped what we are some-times inclined to see as ?normal?
or ?natural?
gen-der identities.
This approach is called social con-structivism, because it ascribes the causal role forhow gender identities emerge to processes of so-cial construction.
A prototypical example of thisviewpoint, Simone de Beauvoir?s famous claimthat one is not born a woman but becomes one(Beauvoir, 1949) led to the distinction between bi-ological ?sex?
and social ?gender?.
Such work hascreated an interest in the historical contingencieswhich decide what counts as a properly mascu-line or feminine identity.
But while competing bi-ologistic explanations of gender differences natu-rally have something they can point to (neurones,genes, or anatomy) social constructivist theorieshave sometimes lacked hard evidence for theirclaims.
As a result, there has been a constant re-currence of theories claiming one natural causefor all aspects of gendered behaviour ?
and this,despite the fact that every single one has beenproved wrong by the scientific community (Fine,2010).This state of affairs delineates a desideratumfor feminist philosophy: giving more evidenceof the cultural factors which instill gendered be-haviour and associations in humans.
While a lotof the cultural information concerning gender isvisual (cinema, magazine covers, advertisement,etc), and the ways to initiating people into specificcodes of gendered behavior can be non-verbal, thecontent of our notions of gender are vastly repre-sented in text.
Following this insight, Simone deBeauvoir reviewed a corpus of five modern nov-els to extract the characteristic aspects of what shecoined the ?condition feminine?
(Beauvoir, 1949).More recently, Judith Butler (1990) tried to ex-plain how the use of certain concepts ?
gender,sex, desire, sexual practice ?
and associated no-tions were consolidating the dominant, binary dis-tinction between masculinity and femininity.The studies just mentioned, though central totheir field, can always be met with suspicion.
Ob-jections such as This is not how I use the wordor You simply looked at books that distorted theunderstanding of the phenomenon in question canonly be met on the grounds of large-scale data.As a result, there have been attempts in historicalresearch to produce statistical databases on gen-dered distributions.
Hausen (1976), for example,focused on the turn of the 18th century in Ger-many, when a particular modern bourgeois under-standing of gender roles is said to have emergedtogether with a new organisation of labour.
How-ever, the manual tasks involved in preparing suchdata are time-consuming and tedious and conse-quently, this type of work still has a limited cov-erage.
We want to argue in this paper that entrust-ing the production of such resources to computa-tional corpus linguistics would a) provide the on-going philosophical investigation with an appro-priate amount of data and b) help overcome theissues linked to the selective nature of the sources46a human reader might choose as relevant.2.2 IntersectionalityCoined by the legal scientist Kimberle?
Crenshaw(1991), the term intersectionality has spread intothe humanites and social sciences as a perspec-tive which has widened the scope of research oninequality and oppression within social contexts.Scientists working with the intersectional per-spective claim that the combination (intersection)of various forms of inequality (for example be-ing black in a white dominated environment orbeing a women in an environment dominated bymen) makes a qualitative difference not only tothe self-perception/identity of social actors, butalso to the way they are addressed through poli-tics, legislation and other instiutions (Ngan-LingChow, 2011).The founding case out of which Kimberle?Crenshaw developed the concept of intersection-ality was a law suit that black women filed againstthe hiring policy of General Motors.
Withinthe traditionally race and gender segregated au-tomobile industry, women were only allowed towork in customer service or other office jobswhile African-Americans were confined to fac-tory work.
As a consequence, African-Americanwomen faced the problem of being denied bothoffice jobs and factory work.
The women filed alawsuit for discrimination.
But the case was dis-missed on the grounds that the plaintiffs hadn?tbeen able to proof that they had been discrim-inated for either racial or sexist reasons.
Thiscase demonstrated our general additive under-standing of discrimination: we act against sex-ism and we act against racism but we fail to ad-dress cases where they interact.
The court was un-able to take this interaction into account and Cren-shaw made the case for a reform of the US anti-discrimination-law, which was based on the situ-ation of white women in gender-dependent casesand of men in race-dependent cases.So the aim of intersectionality is to localiseand make visible discrimination that traditionalthought cannot conceive of, in particular wherevarious forms of oppression or inequality over-lap.
The claim is that social categories can onlybe explained in relation to other categories thatdefine us as social beings within a society.
Forinstance, what it means to be in the situation ofa black woman can only be gauged in relation tothe political, cultural, socio-economic, religious,etc.
background of that woman, and not withrespect to being a woman or being a person ofcolour in isolation.
Indeed, these different fac-tors can override, exacerbate, conflict with eachother, or simply run in parallel when they cometo interact.
Additionally, intersectionality also re-minds us that the meaning of social categoriesalso depends on historical eras.
This proliferationof factors increases the complexity a researcheris confronted with to a point where it is doubt-ful whether the intersectional perspective can betransformed into a manageable methodology atall.
Dealing with this level of complexity usingautomatically produced data might be of help ontwo levels:1. the synchronic level, at which the intersec-tionality researcher seeks to grasp the qual-itative differences between the concepts of,say, woman and black woman.2.
the diachronic level, at which historiansworking with intersectionality research con-ceptual change over texts from various eras.In this work, we concentrate on the conceptualaspects of the synchronic level.
In what follows,we will attempt to show that the intersectional ap-proach can indeed be illustrated by the linguisticdata obtained from a large contemporary corpus.3 A distributional semantics system3.1 Distributional semanticsPresented as a complement to model-theoretic se-mantics, distributional semantics aims to repre-sent lexical meaning as a function of the con-texts in which a given word appears (Wittgen-stein, 1953; see also Harris, 1954, credited withthe ?distributional hypothesis?
which states thatwords which are similar in meaning occur in sim-ilar contexts).Following this idea, some work in computa-tional linguistics (starting with Harper, 1965) hasbeen devoted to building and evaluating modelswhich represent words as distributions, i.e., vec-tors in a multidimensional space where each di-mension corresponds to a potential context for alexical item (Curran, 2003).
The notion of con-text itself has been studied to try and determinewhich representations work best for various tasks.47Word windows (Lund and Burgess, 1996), depen-dencies (Pado?
and Lapata, 2007) and syntactic re-lations (Grefenstette, 1994) have been proposed.In our work, we use as context the wordsappearing in the same sentence as the query.This simple model is attractive from the pointof view of using distributional techniques acrossthe wide range of texts considered by humani-ties researchers.
It ensures that a corpus is pro-cessable as long as it is digitalised ?
regardlessof the language it is written in and the era it be-longs to.
Given that resources for parsing rarelanguages and older states of modern languagesare still scarce, the word-based model has the ad-vantage of flexibility.Another issue in producing distributions relatesto weighing the various dimensions.
A number ofpossibilities have been suggested.
Binary mod-els attribute a weight of 1 to a context if it co-occurs at least once with the term that the distribu-tion must represent, and 0 otherwise.
Frequency-based models use as weights the number of co-occurrences of a particular context with the termunder consideration.
More complex models usefunctions like mutual information, which attemptto represent how ?characteristic?
a particular con-text is for the term rather than how ?frequent?it is in conjunction with that term.
The notionof a characteristic context is particularly impor-tant to us, as we wish to provide conceptual rep-resentations (distributions) which mirror what a?standard?
individual would associate with a givenword.
To achieve this, frequency models are notsufficient.
Words like do, also, new, etc co-occurwith many terms but are in no meaningful rela-tion with those terms.
Instead, we want to choosea function which gives high weights to contextsthat appear frequently with the term to be mod-elled and not very frequently with other terms.By doing this, we will have a way to describesalient associations for a particular concept.
In?3.3, we will spell out such a function, borrowedfrom Mitchell and Lapata (2010).3.2 Intersectionality in linguistic termsIt has been suggested that in order to integratedistributional semantics with model theoretic for-malisms, methods should be found to composethe distributions of single words (Clark and Pul-man, 2007).
It is clear that the representation ofcarnivorous mammal in formal semantics can bewritten as carnivorous?(x)?mammal?
(x) but it isless clear how the lexical semantics of the phraseshould be described in distributional terms.The work done so far on distributional com-positionality has focused on finding equivalentsfor the well-known formal semantics notion ofintersection.
All models assume that the inter-sective composition of two elements should re-turn a distribution, i.e.
a lexical meaning, whichis made of the individual distributions, or mean-ings, of those elements.
But there are differencesin how those models are evaluated.
Two cate-gories can be drawn: models designed to emu-late the distribution of the resulting phrase itself,as it would be observed given a large enough cor-pus (Guevara, 2010 and 2011; Baroni and Zam-parelli, 2010), and those which only focus onthe composition operation and try to produce anadequate representation of the semantic intersec-tion of the phrase?s components, independentlyfrom the phrasal distribution (Mitchell and La-pata, 2010; Grefenstette and Sadrzadeh, 2011).The former, which we will refer to as phrasalmodels are trained and evaluated against phrases?distributions while the latter, intersective models,call for task-based evaluations (for instance, sim-ilarity ratings: see Mitchell and Lapata, 2010).We argue that phrasal and intersective modelsare bound to produce different aspects of mean-ing.
Consider, for instance, the phrase big city.Principles of semantic intersection tell us that abig city is a city which is big.
This is a correctstatement and one which should come out of thecomposition of the big distribution and the citydistribution1.
But arguably, there is more to themeaning of the phrase (see Partee, 1994, for adiscussion of non-intersective adjectival phrases).We expect people to readily associate conceptslike loud, underground, light, show, crowd to theidea of a big city.
Our hypothesis is that this?extra?
(non-intersective) meaning can be clearlyobserved in phrasal distributions while it is, insome sense, ?hidden?
in distributions which arethe result of a purely intersective operation (be-cause the entire distributions of the two compo-nents are used, and not just the contexts relevantto the particular association of big and city).This observation, made at the linguistic level,1For the sake of this argument, we will ignore the sugges-tion that the gradable adjective might affect the intersectivestatus of the phrase48is also the foundation of intersectionality theory.The argument, presented in Section 2, is that theprejudices attached to black women, for instance,(that is, the way that the concept black womanis understood and used) are different from thesimple combination of the prejudices attached toblack people and women separately.
So althoughit is correct to say that a black woman is a womanwho is black (in the relevant sense of black), theconcept reaches further.If the basic tenet of intersectionality theoryholds, and if we accept that distributions are avaluable approximation of lexical meaning, wewould expect that the phrasal distribution of,say, black woman would significantly differ fromits compositional distribution.
Further, such asignificant difference would also have linguisticrelevance, as it would indicate the need to takephrasal distributions into account when ?comput-ing meaning?
via distributional techniques.
Bothphrasal models and intersective models could besaid to contribute to a complete and accurate rep-resentation.In Section 6, we will make a first step in in-vestigating this issue by thoroughly analysing thephrasal and compositional distributions of blackwoman.3.3 System descriptionThe two systems we use in this paper have thesame basis.
They produce a distribution for aphrase based on a raw Wikipedia2 snapshot, pre-processed to remove the wiki markup (Flickingeret al 2010).
Distributions are vectors in a spaceS made of 10000 dimensions which correspondto the 10000 most frequent words in the corpus.The distribution of a word or phrase in the corpusis taken to be the collection of all words that co-occur with that word or phrase within a single sen-tence (we use a list of stop words to discard func-tion words, etc).
The weight of each co-occurringterm in the distribution is given by a function bor-rowed from Mitchell and Lapata (2010):wi(t) =p(ci|t)p(ci)=freqci,t ?
freqallfreqt ?
freqci(1)where wi(t) is the weight of word t for dimensioni, freqci,t is the count of the co-occurrences of a2http://www.wikipedia.org/context word ci with t, freqall is the total num-ber of words in the corpus, freqt and freqci arerespectively t and ci?s frequencies in the corpus.We choose an intersective model based on mul-tiplication, as this operation has been shown togive excellent results in previous experiments(Erk and Pado?, 2008; Mitchell and Lapata, 2010):the distributions of the two components of thephrase are multiplied in a point-wise fashion togive the final distribution.
This corresponds to themodel p=uv of Mitchell and Lapata.As for the phrasal model, the final distributionis simply the distribution obtained from lookingat the co-occurrences for the phrase itself.The data passed on to the philosophers for fur-ther consideration takes the form of a list of the100 most ?characteristic?
contexts for the query,that is, the 100 words with heighest weights in thedistribution, filtered as described in ?3.3.1.3.3.1 Filtering the resultsOne potential issue with our implementationis that words belonging to frequent named enti-ties end up in the top characteristic contexts forthe query.
So for instance, wonder is one of themost characteristic contexts for woman becauseof the comic character Wonder Woman.
Arguably,such contexts should only be retrieved if theyare as significant in their ?non-name?
form as intheir named entity form (e.g.
if the string won-der woman was significantly more frequent thanWonder Woman, there would be a case for retain-ing it in the results).
We filter the relevant namedentities out using the following heuristic:1.
We call the query q and its capitalised ver-sion Q.
Let c1...cn be the top characteristiccontexts for q and C1...Cn their capitalisedequivalent.2.
For each context ck in c1...cn:(a) We compute the corpus frequencies ofthe patterns qck, ckq, qwck and ckwq,where w is an intervening word.
sk isthe sum of those frequencies.
(b) Similarly, we compute the corpus fre-quencies of the patterns QCk, CkQ,QwCk and CkwQ, where w is an in-tervening word.
Sk is the sum of thosefrequencies.49(c) r is the ratio Sk/sk.
If r is over a cer-tain threshold t, we remove ck from thecharacteristic contexts list.In our experiments, we use t = 0.6.
Thisthreshold allows us to successfully remove manyspurious contexts.
For example, wonder andspider are deleted from the results for woman(among others) and isle3, elephant and iron fromthe results for man.4 The corpusThe number of experiments that can be devisedusing distributional techniques is only limited bythe number of digitalised corpora available to re-searchers in the humanities.
It is easy to imag-ine a range of comparative studies showing theconceptual differences highlighted by the use ofa word or phrase at various times, in variouscountries, or in various communities.
The aimof this study is to analyse the discursive use ofsome concepts over a fairly large sample.
Wechose the English Wikipedia4 as our corpus be-cause of its size and because of its large contrib-utor base (around 34,000 ?active editors?
in De-cember 20115).
Wikipedia?s encyclopedic contentalso makes it less explicitly biased than raw Inter-net text, although we have to be aware of implicitbias: most of Wikipedia?s contributors are maleand the encyclopedia?s content is heavily skewedtowards items of popular culture (Cohen, 2011).The latter point is unproblematic as long as it isacknowledged in the discussion of the results.In the next two sections, we analyse the dis-tributions obtained for the phrases man, woman,black woman and Asian woman.
It is worth men-tioning that more data was extracted from our cor-pus, which, due to space constraints, we will notdiscuss here.
The broad claims made with respectto the above four noun phrases, however, are con-sistent with the rest of our observations.5 Discussing genderThis section discusses the produced distribu-tions from the perspective of gender theory.
Theaim of the discussion is to illustrate the type of3As in Isle of Man4http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main Page5http://stats.wikimedia.org/EN/SummaryEN.htminformation that may be relevant for discourseanalysis.
Note that it follows the philosophicalmethodology highlighted in Haslanger (2005) forconceptual analysis.Table 1 shows the most characteristic contextsfor woman and man, after filtering.
There arethree levels on which the data discussed herecould be usefully interpreted within feminist re-search ?
the conceptual, the constructivist and thedeconstructivist.
We will concentrate on the firsttwo.In recent years a strong trend in Gender Studieshas emphasised that our investigations shouldn?trepeat the historical bias which regards men as?universal?
(or default) and women as ?particular?,as a specific ?other?
to be investigated (Honegger,1991).
An advantage of our automatically pro-duced data is that it returns just as much materialto focus on the cultural fabrication of masculinityas on that of femininity.
The male position provesto indeed carry a broader variety of seeminglynon-gendered contexts, for instance, wise, inno-cent, sin, fat, courage, salvation, genius, worthyand rescued ?
none of which is characteristic ofwoman.
But what is most striking is the strong oc-currence of military contexts.
We find enlisted atthe top of the list, followed by wounded, IRA, of-ficers, militia, regiments, garrison, platoons, ca-sualties, recruits and diverse military ranks.
Itis sometimes unclear what counts as ?military-related?
(see killing, brave).
We would have togo back to the original text to investigate this.
Butwe see here very clearly how attributes that rankhigh when it comes to defining stereotypical mas-culinity and might be thought as ?general?
charac-teristics clearly owe their prominence to the mili-tary cluster.
The characteristic contexts list seemsto give distilled evidence to what has as yet stillonly been partly analyzed in socio-historical re-search, namely how the norms of masculinity areto a large extent of military descent (for the Ger-man context see Frevert, 2001).
Brave, angry,courage, cruel are all things that Wikipedia ?
justlike popular imagination ?
won?t associate withwomen.The meaning of woman seems to revolvearound the three interrelated clusters of reproduc-tion, sex and love.
Pregnant and pregnancy rankvery high, as well as reproduction-related termssuch as abortion, children and mothers.
Thereare more sexual terms (sexually, sexual, sexual-50Woman Manwomen, woman, pregnant, feminist, abortion,womens, men, husbands, elderly, pregnancy, sex-ually, rape, breast, gender, equality, minorities,lesbian, wives, beautiful, attractive, pornogra-phy, dressed, sexual, marry, sexuality, dress, est.,wear, young, sex, african-american, naked, com-fort, homosexual, discrimination, priesthood,womens, violence, loved, children, clothes,man, male, marriages, hair, mysterious, wearing,homeless, loves, boyfriend, wore, her., ladies,mistress, lover, attitudes, hiv, advancement, re-lationships, homosexuality, wealthy, mothers,worn, murdered, ordained, mortal, unnamed,girls, depicts, slavery, lonely, female, equal, can-cer, goddess, roles, abuse, kidnapped, priests,portrayal, witch, divorce, screening, clothing,murders, husband, romantic, forbidden, loose,excludedmen, man, enlisted, women, wise, homosex-ual, wounded, gay, woman, dressed, young, el-derly, ira, homeless, wives, brave, angry, offi-cers, marry, marched, sexually, wealthy, killed,wounds, innocent, militia, homosexuality, mans,mysterious, god, tin, elves, mortal, ladies, wear-ing, priesthood, sin, con, courage, fat, equal-ity, numbering, regiments, garrison, numbered,brotherhood, murdered, rape, lonely, platoon,casualties, knew, recruits, reinforcements, re-cruited, blind, loved, sexual, sex, thousand,mask, clothes, salvation, commanded, loves,lover, sick, detachment, genius, cruel, gender,killing, col., lt., drunk, worthy, tall, flank, con-victed, surrendered, contingent, rescued, nakedTable 1: Most characteristic contexts for woman and man, after filteringity, sex) in the characteristic list for woman andmentions of loved, loves, lover are higher up thanin the results obtained for man.
Further, a va-riety of terms, mostly absent from the man list,create a close link between femininity and rela-tionality: husband(s), marriage (though, furtherdown, divorce comes up too), boyfriend and re-lationships.
While beautiful, attractive, comfortand romantic might at least suggest that positivesentiments are attached to the inbuilt feminine re-lationality, another set of female contexts high-lights the very vulnerability inscribed in the clus-ter around intimacy: rape, pornography, violence,slavery, abuse, kidnapped quantitatively capture acorrelation between relationality, sexuality and vi-olence which characterises the use of the lexemewoman.Another set of exclusively feminine conceptswhich at first sight seem to create interesting sin-gular contexts ?
breast, comfort, hair, HIV, can-cer ?
are united by reference to a physicality thatseems, apart from the wounds apparently con-tracted in war, peculiarly absent in man.
Suchclustering sheds light on the fact that certain asso-ciations ?stick?
to women and not to men.
Thoughit takes two to marry or divorce and have chil-dren, those exclusively form contexts for woman.Most dramatically, this can be observed when itcomes to rape.
Though the majority of cases im-ply a male perpetrator, rape is very high up, in12th position, in the female list (that is before anymention of love), while it is returned as character-istic of men only to the extent that loneliness orbrotherhood are, at rank 49.These observations highlight the kind of as-sociations implicitly present in discursive data ?whether retrieved by machines or humans.
We donot learn how matters are ?in fact?
but simply in-tegrate the linguistic patterns most characteristicfor a certain phenomenon.
This, again, does havetremendous effects on reality ?
so-called ?con-structive?
effects.
Indeed, when it comes to phe-nomena that touch on human self-understanding,discourse implies more than a mirror of mean-ing.
It partakes in the making of real identities.It provides the material people craft their self-understanding from and model their behavior af-ter.
It is this very effect of our characteristic usageof language which prompts social philosophers toascribe ?power?
to language.6 Discussing intersectionalityTable 2 shows the most characteristic con-texts for the phrase black woman after filtering,as given by the intersective and phrasal mod-els.
We should point out that the phrase black51Multiplicative model Phrasal modelstripes, makeup, pepper, hole, racial, white,woman, spots, races, women, whites, holes,colours, belt, shirt, african-american, pale, yel-low, wears, powder, coloured, wear, wore,colour, dressed, racism, leather, colors, hair, col-ored, trim, shorts, silk, throat, patch, jacket,dress, metal, scarlet, worn, grey, wearing, shoes,purple, native, gray, breast, slaves, color, vein,tail, hat, painted, uniforms, collar, dark, coat, fur,olive, bear, boots, paint, red, lined, canadiens,predominantly, slaveryracism, feminist, women?s, slavery, negro, ide-ology, tyler, filmmaker, african-american, ain?t,elderly, whites, nursing, patricia, abbott, glo-ria, freeman, terrestrial, shirley, profession, ju-lia, abortion, diane, possibilities, argues, re-union, hiv, blacks, inability, indies, sexually,giuseppe, perry, vince, portraits, prevention, bea-con, gender, attractive, tucker, fountain, riley,beck, comfortable, stern, paradise, twist, anthol-ogy, brave, protective, lesbian, domestic, feared,breast, collective, barbara, liberation, racial, rosa,riot, aunt, equality, rape, lawyers, playwright,white, argued, documentary, carol, isn?t, expe-riences, witch, men, spoke, slaves, depicted,teenage, photos, resident, lifestyle, aids, com-mons, slave, freedom, exploitation, clerk, tired,romantic, harlem, celebrate, quran, interred, star-gate, alvin, ada, katherine, immenseTable 2: Most characteristic contexts for black woman.
Multiplicative and phrasal model, after filteringwoman/women only occurs 384 times in our cor-pus, so the vector obtained through the phrasalmodel suffers from some data sparsity problems.6In particular, overall infrequent events are givenhigh weights by our algorithm, resulting in a rel-atively high number of surnames being present inthe produced vector.
Despite this issue, a num-ber of observations can be made, which agreewith both our linguistic and philosophical expec-tations.We first considered to what extent the phrasaland multiplicative models emphasised the char-acteristics already present in their compo-nents?distributions.
We found that the top con-texts for the phrasal distribution of black womanonly overlap 17 times with the top contexts ofwoman and 9 times with the top contexts forblack.
The multiplicative model produces anoverlap of only 12 items with woman but 64 withblack.7 This highlights a large conceptual differ-6We should add that this small number of occurrencesis in itself significant, and mirrors problems of socialmarginalisation.
We note that the phrase African-Americanwoman/women is even sparser, with 236 occurrences in ourcorpus.7The weights in the black vector clearly override thosefrom the woman vector.
Mitchell and Lapata (2010) discusspossible improvements to the multiplicative model which in-volve putting a positive weight on the noun component whenperforming the composition.ence between the phrase seen as a single entityand its components.
In contrast, the compositionof the constituents via the multiplicative model re-turns a distribution fairly close to the distributionof those constituents.We looked next at the characteristic contextsthat were particular to each representation.
Wefound that the phrasal model vector presents 73terms which are absent from the top contextsfor black and woman.
In contrast, none of theterms in the top contexts of the multiplied vec-tor is specific to the composed phrase: all ofthem are either highly characteristic of black orwoman (e.g.
racial, African-American and breast,dress).8 This indicates that the salient contexts forthe phrase are very different from the associationscommonly made with its constituents.Finally, we observed that the vector obtainedthrough the phrasal model only overlaps 8 timeswith the composed one.
The shared words areracial, white, whites, African-American, racism,breast, slaves and slavery.
Again, we can con-clude from this that the two representations cap-ture very different aspect of meaning, althoughthey both retrieve some high-level associationswith the concept of race and race-related history.8Because our system does not perform any sense disam-biguation, we return contexts such as pepper for black pep-per, hole for black hole, etc.52From the point of view of intersectionality, ourresults confirm the basic claim of the theory: thereare cases where the discourse on individuals be-longing to two different social groups is radicallydifferent than the discourse pertaining to those so-cial groups taken separately.In addition, the data supports further argumentsmade by intersectionality researchers.
In particu-lar, comparing the distributions for woman, blackwoman and Asian woman9 shows that colour orethnicity has a crucial impact on how women arerepresented.
Looking at woman, the word rapeappears at position 12, but it appears much fur-ther down the list in black woman and not at all inAsian woman.
At the same time the word nurs-ing is only associated with black women whilepornography hits position number 3, shortly fol-lowed by exotic and passive when we look atAsian woman.
These three words do not occurin the top contexts for woman or black woman.This indicates that we are getting results concern-ing sexuality which depend on ?ethnical?
connota-tion: white women are shown as victims of abuse(rape), black women as responsible for nursing,and Asian women represented as passive and ob-jects of pornography.Just looking at this data (and there would bea lot more to analyse) we can find a connectionwith what the latest historical research workingwith intersectionality has brought to light: his-torians have shown that the historical discourseon prostitution has increased and reinforced raciststereotypes and prejudices.
Whyte (2012) shows,(looking at the ?white slavery?
panic of the earlytwentieth century which is a key point in the his-tory of prostitution) that the construction of thewhite, innocent victim of prostitution is central tothe creation of the myth of the ?white slavery?
inmany ways and that it has shaped the constructionand understanding of contemporary human traf-ficking.
The broader history of slavery (partic-ularly in the North American context) forms thebackdrop for ?writing out?
women of colour asvictims of sexual violence.
This is appropriatelyillustrated by our data.9Due to space constraints, we are not showing the distri-bution of Asian woman.7 ConclusionThis paper sought to demonstrate that linguisticrepresentations of the type used in distributionalsemantics may provide useful data to humanitiesresearchers who analyse discursive trends.
Wepresented a case study involving two subfields ofphilosophy: gender theory and intersectionality.We hope to have shown that a) distributionaldata is a useful representation of social phenom-ena which have been described by theorists andsocial scientists but never linguistically observedon a large scale b) this data lends itself to a fine-grained analysis of such phenomena, as exem-plified by the discussions in ?5 and ?6.
Further,we have highlighted that the philosophical theoryof intersectionality can be illustrated, at least forsome concepts, via a quantitative analysis of theoutput of different distributional models.
We sug-gest that this observation should be investigatedfurther from the point of view of computationallinguistics: there may be some aspect of mean-ing which is not expressed by those distributionalcompositional models that do not take phrasal dis-tributions into account (i.e.
additive, multiplica-tive, circular convolution models).A natural extension of this work would be todesign experiments focusing on particular typesof discourse and corpora, and pursue conceptualanalysis at the diachronic level.
This presupposesthe existence of digitalised corpora which may notbe available at this point in time.
Efforts shouldtherefore be made to acquire the needed data.
Weleave this as future work.AcknowledgmentsThis work was in part enabled by an Alexandervon Humboldt Fellowship for Postdoctoral Re-searchers awarded to the first author.
We wouldlike to thank the Alexander von Humboldt Foun-dation for their financial support.ReferencesMarco Baroni and Roberto Zamparelli.
2010.
Nounsare vectors, adjectives are matrices: Represent-ing adjective-noun constructions in semantic space.Proceedings of the 2010 Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP10).Simone de Beauvoir.
1949.
Le deuxie`me sexe.
Galli-mard, Paris.53Judith Butler.
1990.
Gender Trouble.
Feminism andthe Subversion of Identity.
Routledge, New York.Stephen Clark and Stephen Pulman.
2007.
Combin-ing Symbolic and Distributional Models of Mean-ing.
Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium onQuantum Interaction, pp.52?55.
Stanford, CA.Noam Cohen.
2011.
Define Gender Gap?
Look UpWikipedias Contributor List.
The New York Times,31 January 2011, pp.A1 New York edition.Kimberle?
Crenshaw.
1991.
Mapping the Mar-gins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Vio-lence against Women of Color.
Stanford Law Re-view, 43:6, pp.
1241?1299.James Curran.
2003.
From Distributional to SemanticSimilarity.
PhD dissertation.
Institute for Commu-nicating and Collaborative Systems.
School of In-formatics.
University of Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.Katrin Erk and Sebastian Pado?.
2008.
A StructuredVector Space Model for Word Meaning in Context.Proceedings of the 2008 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing.
Hon-olulu, HI.Cordelia Fine.
2008.
Delusions of Gender.
The RealScience Behind Sex Differences.
Icon Books.
Lon-don.Dan Flickinger and Stephan Oepen and Gisle Ytrestol2010.
WikiWoods: Syntacto-Semantic Annotationfor English Wikipedia.
Proceedings of the SeventhInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC10).Michel Foucault.
1966.
Les mots et les choses.
Galli-mard, Paris.Ute Frevert.
2001.
Die kasernierte Nation.
Militrdi-enst und Zivilgesellschaft in Deutschland.
Beck,Munich.Edward Grefenstette and Mehrnoosh Sadrzadeh.2011.
Experimental Support for a CategoricalCompositional Distributional Model of Meaning.Proceedings of the 2011 Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp.1394?1404.
Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.Gregory Grefenstette.
1994.
Explorations in Au-tomatic Thesaurus Discovery.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers.Emiliano Guevara.
2010.
A Regression Model ofAdjective-Noun Compositionality in DistributionalSemantics.
Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop onGeometrical Models of Natural Language Seman-tics, ACL 2010, pp.
33?37.
Uppsala, Sweden.Emiliano Guevara.
2011.
Computing Semantic Com-positionality in Distributional Semantics.
Proceed-ings of the Ninth International Conference on Com-putational Semantics (IWCS 2011), pp.
135?144.Oxford, England, UK.Kenneth E. Harper.
1965.
Measurement of similar-ity between nouns.
Proceedings of the 1965 con-ference on Computational linguistics (COLING 65),pp.
1?23.
Bonn, Germany.Zelig Harris.
1954.
Distributional Structure.
Word,10(2-3):146?162.Sally Haslanger.
2005.
What Are We Talking About?The Semantics and Politics of Social Kinds Hypa-tia, 20:10?26.Karin Hausen.
1976.
Die Polarisierung der?Geschlechtscharaktere?.
Eine Spiegelung derDissoziation von Erwerbs- und Familienleben.Sozialgeschichte der Familie in der Neuzeit Eu-ropas.
Conze and Werner, Editors, pp.
363?393Klett-Cotta, Stuttgart.Claudia Honegger.
1991.
Die Ordnung derGeschlechter: Die Wissenschaften vom Menschenund das Weib, 17501850.
Campus, Frankfurt amMain and New York.Kevin Lund and Curt Burgess.
1996.
Producinghigh-dimensional semantic spaces from lexical co-occurrence.
Behavior Research Methods, Instru-mentation, and Computers, 28, pp.
203?208.Jeff Mitchell and Mirella Lapata.
2010.
Compositionin Distributional Models of Semantics.
CognitiveScience, 34(2010):1388?1429.Esther Ngan-Ling Chow.
2011.
Analyzing Gender,Intersectionality, and multiple inequalities: global,transnational and local contexts.
Esther Ngan-LingChow, Marcia Texler Segal and Tan Lin, Editors.Emerald Group Publishing.Sebastian Pado?
and Mirella Lapata.
2007.Dependency-based construction of semanticspace models.
Computational Linguistics, 33(2),161?199.Barbara Partee.
1994.
Lexical Semantics and Compo-sitionality Invitation to Cognitive Science, secondedition.
Part I: Language.
Daniel Osherson, Gen-eral Editor.
Lila Gleitman and Mark Liberman, Ed-itors.
MIT Press.John G.A.
Pocock.
1975.
The Machiavellian moment.Florentine political thought and the Atlantic repub-lican tradition.
Princeton University Press, Prince-ton, NJ.Richard Rorty.
1967.
The Linguistic Turn: Recent Es-says in Philosophical Method.
Richard Rorty, Edi-tor.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Quentin Skinner.
1998.
Liberty before liberalism.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.Dominic Widdows.
2008.
Semantic Vector Products:Some Initial Investigations.
Second AAAI Sympo-sium on Quantum Interaction.
Oxford, UK.Christine Whyte.
2012.
Praise be, prostitutes as thewomen we are not ?
Using intersectionality to anal-yse race, class and gender in history.
Intersektion-alita?t und Kritik.
Vera Kallenberg, Jennifer Meyer,Johanna M. Mu?ller, Editors.
Wiesdaben.
Forthcom-ing.Ludwig Wittgenstein.
1953.
Philosophische Unter-suchungen.
Blackwell, Oxford, UK.54
