In: R. Levy & D. Reitter (Eds.
), Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics (CMCL 2012), pages 1?10,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsModeling the Acquisition of Mental State VerbsLibby Barak, Afsaneh Fazly, and Suzanne StevensonDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, Canada{libbyb,afsaneh,suzanne}@cs.toronto.eduAbstractChildren acquire mental state verbs (MSVs)much later than other, lower-frequency, words.One factor proposed to contribute to this de-lay is that children must learn various seman-tic and syntactic cues that draw attention to thedifficult-to-observe mental content of a scene.We develop a novel computational approachthat enables us to explore the role of such cues,and show that our model can replicate aspectsof the developmental trajectory of MSV acqui-sition.1 IntroductionMental State Verbs (MSVs), such as think, know,and want, are very frequent in child-directed lan-guage, yet children use them productively muchlater than lower-frequency action verbs, such as falland throw (Johnson and Wellman, 1980; Shatz et al,1983).
Psycholinguistic theories have suggested thatthere is a delay in the acquisition of MSVs becausethey require certain cognitive and/or linguistic skillsthat are not available during the early stages of lan-guage development.
For example, MSVs typicallyoccur with a sentential complement (SC) that refersto the propositional content of the mental state, as inHe thinks Mom went home.
Children have to reach astage of syntactic development that includes somefacility with SCs in order to fully acquire MSVs.However, even at 3?5 years old, children are able toprocess SCs only imperfectly (e.g., Asplin, 2002).Even when children are able to produce SCs withother verbs (such as verbs of communication, as inHe said Mom went home), there is a lag before theyproductively use MSVs referring to actual mentalcontent (Diessel and Tomasello, 2001).1 Psycholin-guists have suggested that young children lack theconceptual ability to conceive that others have men-tal states separate from their own (Bartsch and Well-man, 1995; Gopnik and Meltzoff, 1997), further de-laying the acquisition of MSVs.Another factor suggested to contribute to the dif-ficulty of acquiring MSVs is their informational re-quirements (Gleitman et al, 2005; Papafragou et al,2007).
Children learn word meanings by figuringout which aspects of an observed scene are referredto by a particular word (Quine, 1960).
MSVs of-ten refer to aspects of the world that are not directlyobservable (i.e., the beliefs and desires of anotherentity).
Thus, in addition to the above-mentionedchallenges posed by children?s developing linguis-tic/conceptual abilities, children may simply havedifficulty in identifying the relevant mental contentnecessary to learning MSVs.In particular, Papafragou et al (2007) [PCG] haveshown that even given adequate conceptual and lin-guistic abilities (as in adults) the mental events in ascene (the actors?
internal states) are not attendedto as much as the actions, unless there are cuesthat heighten the salience of the mental content.PCG further demonstrate that children?s sensitivityto such cues lags behind that of adults, suggesting anadditional factor in the acquisition of MSVs which1Researchers have noted that children use MSVs in fixedphrases, in a performative use or as a pragmatic marker, well be-fore they use them to refer to actual mental content (e.g., Diesseland Tomasello, 2001; Shatz et al, 1983).
Here by ?acquisitionof MSVs?, we are specifically referring to children learning us-ages that genuinely refer to mental content.1is the developmental change in how strongly suchcues are associated with the relevant mental content.We develop a computational model of MSV ac-quisition (the first, to our knowledge) to further il-luminate these issues.
We extend an existing modelof verb argument structure acquisition (Alishahi andStevenson, 2008) to enable the representation andprocessing of mental state semantics and syntax.We simulate the developmental change proposed byPCG through a gradually increasing ability in themodel to appropriately attend to the mental contentof a scene.
In addition, we suggest that even whenthe learner?s semantic representation is biased to-wards the action content, the learner attends to theobserved SC syntax in an MSV utterance.
This isespecially important to account for the pattern of er-rors in child data.
Our model thus extends the ac-count of PCG to show that a probabilistic interplayof the semantic and syntactic features of a partial andsomewhat erroneous perception of the input, com-bined with a growing ability to attend to cues indica-tive of mental content, can help to account for chil-dren?s developmental trajectory in learning MSVs.2 Background and Our ApproachTo investigate the linguistic and contextual cues thatcould help in learning MSVs, PCG use a procedurecalled the Human Simulation Paradigm (originallyproposed by Gillette et al, 1999).
In this paradigm,subjects are put in situations intended to simulatevarious word learning conditions of young children.E.g., in one condition, adults watch silent videos ofcaregivers interacting with children, and are askedto predict the verb uttered by the caregiver.
In an-other condition, subjects hear a sentence containinga nonce verb (e.g., gorp) after watching the video,and are asked what gorp might mean.We focus on two factors investigated by PCG inthe performance of adults and children in identifyingMSVs.
The first factor they investigated involvedthe syntactic frame used when subjects were given asentence with a nonce verb.
PCG hypothesized thatan SC frame would be a cue to mental content (andan MSV), since the SC refers to propositional con-tent.
The second factor PCG examined was whetherthe video described a ?true belief?
or a ?false be-lief?
scene: A true belief scene shows an ordinarysituation which unfolds as the character in the sceneexpects ?
e.g., a little boy takes food to his grand-mother, and she is there in the house as expected.The corresponding false belief scene has an unex-pected outcome for the character ?
in this case, an-other character has replaced the grandmother in herbed.
Here the hypothesis was that such false beliefscenes would heighten the salience of mental activ-ity in the scene and lead to greater belief verb re-sponses in describing them.PCG?s results showed that both adults and chil-dren were sensitive to both the scene and syntaxcues, but children?s ability to draw on such cues wasinferior to that of adults.
They thus propose that thedifference between children and adults is that chil-dren have not yet formed as strong an associationas adults between the cues and the mental contentof a scene as required to match the performance ofadults.
Nonetheless, their results suggest that theparticipating children had the conceptual and lin-guistic abilities required for MSVs, since they wereable to produce them under conditions with suffi-ciently strong cues.We simulate PCG?s experiments using a novelcomputational approach.
Following PCG, we as-sume that even when a learner is able to perceivethe general semantic and syntactic properties of abelief scene and associated utterance, they may notattend to the mental content in every situation, andthat this ability improves over time.
We model a de-velopmental change in a learner?s attention to mentalcontent: At early stages, corresponding to the stateof young children, the learner largely focuses on theaction aspects of a belief scene, even in the presenceof an utterance using an MSV.
Over time, the learnergradually increases in the ability to attend appropri-ately to the mental aspects of such a scene and ut-terance, until adult-like competence is achieved inassociating the available cues with mental content.Importantly, our work extends the proposal ofPCG by bringing in evidence from other relevantstudies on children?s ability to process SCs.
Morespecifically, we suggest that when children hear asentence like I think Mom went home, they recog-nize (and record) the existence of an SC, while atthe same time they focus on the action semanticsas the main (most salient) event.
In other words,we assume that children?s imperfect syntactic abil-2ities are at least sufficient to recognize the SC us-age (Nelson et al, 1989; Asplin, 2002).
However,their attention is mostly directed towards the actionexpressed in the embedded complement, either be-cause mental content is less easily observable thanaction (Papafragou et al, 2007), or due to the lin-guistic saliency of the embedded clause (Diessel andTomasello, 2001; Dehe and Wichmann, 2010).
Asmentioned above, we model this misrepresentationby considering the possibility of not attending tomental content in a belief scene.
Specifically, weassume that (i) the model is very likely to overlookthe mental content at earlier stages (corresponding tochildren?s observed behaviour); and (ii) as the model?ages?
(i.e., receives more input), its attentional abil-ities improve and thus the model is more likely tofocus on the mental content as the main proposition.Our results suggest that these changes to the modellead to a match between our model?s behaviour andPCG?s differential results for children and adults.3 The Computational ModelA number of computational models have examinedthe role of interacting syntactic and semantic cuesin the acquisition of verb argument structure (e.g.,Niyogi, 2002; Buttery, 2006; Alishahi and Steven-son, 2008; Perfors et al, 2010; Parisien and Steven-son, 2011).
However, to our knowledge no com-putational model has addressed the developmentaltrajectory in the acquisition of MSVs.
Here we ex-tend the verb argument structure acquisition modelof Alishahi and Stevenson (2008) to enable it to ac-count for MSV acquisition.
Specifically, we usetheir core Bayesian learning algorithm, but modifythe input processing component to reflect a develop-mental change in attention to the mental state con-tent of an MSV usage and its consequent represen-tation, as noted above.We use this model for the following reasons: (i) itfocuses on argument structure learning, and the in-terplay between syntax and semantics, which are keyto MSV acquisition; (ii) it is probabilistic and hencecan naturally capture gradient responses to differentcues; and (iii) it is incremental, which allows us toinvestigate changes in behaviour over time.
We firstgive an overview of the original model, and then ex-plain our extensions.3.1 Model OverviewThe input to the model is a sequence of utterances(what the child hears), each paired with a scene(what the child perceives); see Table 1 for an ex-ample.
First, the frame extraction component ofthe model extracts from the input pair a frame?a collection of features.
We use features that in-clude both semantic properties (?event primitives?and ?event participants?)
and syntactic properties(?syntactic pattern?
and ?verb count?).
See Table 2for examples of two possible frames extracted fromthe pair in Table 1.
Second, the learning componentof the model incrementally clusters the extractedframes one by one.
These clusters correspond toconstructions that reflect probabilistic associationsof semantic and syntactic features across similar us-ages, such as an agentive intransitive or causativetransitive.
The model can use these associations tosimulate various language tasks as the prediction ofa missing feature given others.
For example, to sim-ulate the human simulation paradigm setting, we canuse the model to predict a missing verb on the basisof the available semantic and syntactic information(as in Alishahi and Pyykkon?en, 2011).3.2 Algorithm for Learning ConstructionsThe model clusters the input frames into construc-tions on the basis of their overall similarity in thevalues of their features.
Importantly, the modellearns these constructions incrementally, consider-ing the possibility of creating a new construction fora given frame if the frame is not sufficiently similarto any of the existing constructions.
Formally, themodel finds the best construction (including a newone) for a given frame F as in:BestConstruction(F ) = argmaxk?ConstructionsP (k|F )(1)where k ranges over all existing constructions and anew one.
Using Bayes rule:P (k|F ) =P (k)P (F |k)P (F )?
P (k)P (F |k) (2)The prior probability of each construction P (k) isestimated as the proportion of observed frames thatare in k, assigning a higher prior to constructions3Think[state,consider,cogitate](I[experiencer,preceiver,considerer ],Go[physical,act,move](MOM[agent,actor,change],HOME[location,destination]))I think Mom went home.Table 1: A sample Scene?Utterance input pair.
(a) Interpretation#1 (mental event is attended to) (b) Interpretation#2 (mental event not attended to)main predicate think main predicate goother predicate go other predicate thinkevent primitives { state, consider , cogitate } event primitives { physical , act ,move}event participants { experiencer , perceiver , considerer} event participants { agent , actor , change}{ preposition, action, perceivable} { location, destination}syntactic pattern arg1 verb arg-S syntactic pattern arg1 verb arg-Sverb count 2 verb count 2Table 2: Two frames extracted from the scene?utterance pair in Table 1.
The bottom left and right panels of the tabledescribe the two possible interpretations given the input pair.
(a) Interpretation#1 assumes that the mental event is thefocus of attention.
Here think is interpreted as the main predicate, which the event primitives and participants referto.
(b) Interpretation#2 assumes that attention is mostly directed to the physical action in the scene, and thus go istaken to be the main predicate, which also determines the extracted event primitives and participants.
Note that forboth interpretations, the learner is assumed to perceive the utterance in full, thus both verbs are heard in the contextof the sentential complement syntax (i.e., syntactic pattern with SC and 2 verbs), without fully extracting the syntacticrelations between the clauses.that are more entrenched (i.e., observed more fre-quently).
The likelihood P (F |k) is estimated basedon the values of features in F and the frames in k:P (F |k) =?i?frameFeaturesPi(j|k) (3)where i refers to the ith feature of F and j refersto its value.
The conditional probability of a featurei to have the value j in construction k, Pi(j|k), iscalculated with a smoothed version of:Pi(j|k) =counti(j, k)nk(4)where counti(j, k) reflects the number of times fea-ture i has the value j in construction k, and nk is thenumber of frames in k. We have two types of fea-tures: single-valued and set-valued.
The result of thecounti operator for a single-valued feature is basedon exact match to the value j, while the result for aset-valued feature is based on the degree of overlapbetween the compared sets, as in the original model.3.3 Modeling Developmental Changes inAttending to Mental ContentWe extend the model above to account for the in-crease in the ability to attend to cues associated withMSVs, as observed by PCG.
In addition, we pro-pose that children?s representation of this situationincludes the observed syntax of the MSV.
That is,children do not simply ignore the MSV usage, focus-ing only on the action expressed in its complement?
they must also note that this action semantics oc-curs in the context of an SC usage.To adapt the model in these ways, we changethe frame extraction component to allow two pos-sible interpretations for a mental event input.
First,to reflect PCG?s proposal, we incorporate a mecha-nism into the model?s frame-extraction process thattakes into account the probability of attending tomental content.
Specifically, we assume that whenpresented with an input pair containing an MSV,as in Table 1, a learner attends to the perceptu-ally salient action/state expressed in the comple-ment (here Go) with probability p, and to the non-perceptually salient mental event expressed in themain verb (here Think) with probability 1?
p. Thisprobability p is a function over time, correspond-ing to the observed developmental progression.
Atvery early stages, p will be high (close to 1), sim-ulating the much greater saliency of physical ac-tions compared to mental events for younger chil-dren.
With subsequent input, p will decrease, giv-ing more and more attention to the mental contentof a scene with a mental event, gradually approach-ing adult-like abilities.4We adopt the following function for p:p =1?
?
t+ 1, 0 < ?
1 (5)where t is the current time, expressed as the totalnumber of scene?utterance pairs observed thus farby the model, and the parameter ?
is set to a smallvalue to assign a high probability to the physical ac-tion interpretation of the scene in the initial stages oflearning (when t is small).We must specify the precise make-up of theframes that correspond to the two possible inter-pretations considered with probability p and 1 ?
p.PCG state only that children and adults differen-tially attend to the action vs. mental content of thescene.
We operationalize this by forming two pos-sible frames in response to an MSV usage.
We pro-pose that one of the frames (with probability 1?p) isthe interpretation of the mental content usage, as inTable 2(a).
However, we extend the account of PCGby proposing that the other frame considered is notsimply a standard representation of an action scene?utterance pair.
Rather, we suggest that the interpre-tation of an MSV scene?utterance pair that focuseson the action semantics does so within the context ofthe SC syntax, given the assumed stage of linguisticabilities of the learner.
This leads to the frame (withprobability p) as in Table 2(b), which represents theaction semantics within a two-verb construction as-sociated with the SC syntax.4 Experimental Setup4.1 Input DataWe generate artificial corpora for our simulations,since we do not have access to sufficient data of ac-tual utterances paired with scene representations.
Inorder to create naturalistic data that resembles whatchildren are exposed to, we follow the approach ofAlishahi and Stevenson (2008) to build an input-generation lexicon that has the distributional prop-erties of actual child-directed speech (CDS).
Theiroriginal lexicon contains only high-frequency phys-ical action verbs that appear in limited syntactic pat-terns.
Our expanded lexicon also includes mentalstate, perception, and communication verbs, all ofwhich can appear with SCs.We extracted our verbs and their distributionalproperties from the child-directed speech of 8children in the CHILDES database (MacWhinney,2000).2 We selected 28 verbs from different se-mantic classes and different frequency ranges: 12physical action verbs taken from the original model(come, go, fall, eat, play, get, give, take, make, look,put, sit), 6 perception and communication verbs(see, hear, watch, say, tell, ask), 5 belief verbs (think,know, guess, bet, believe), and 5 desire verbs (want,wish, like, mind, need).
For each verb, we manuallyanalyzed a random sample of 100 CDS usages (orall usages if fewer than 100) to extract distributionalinformation about its argument structures.We construct the input-generation lexicon by list-ing each of the 28 verbs (i.e.
the ?main predicate?
),along with its overall frequency, as well as the fre-quency with which it appears with each argumentstructure.
Each entry contains values of the syn-tactic and semantic features (see Table 2 for ex-amples), including ?event primitives?, ?event partic-ipants?, ?syntactic pattern?, and ?verb count?.
Byincluding these features, we assume that a learneris capable of understanding basic syntactic proper-ties of an utterance, including word syntactic cat-egories (e.g., noun and verb), word order, and theappearance of SCs (e.g., Nelson et al, 1989).
Wealso assume that a learner has the ability to perceiveand conceptualize the general semantic propertiesof events ?
including mental, perceptual, commu-nicative, and physical actions ?
as well as thoseof the event participants.
Values for the semanticfeatures (the event primitives and event participants)are taken from Alishahi and Stevenson (2008) forthe action verbs, and from several sources includingVerbNet (Kipper et al, 2008) and Dowty (1991) forthe additional verbs.For each simulation in our experiments (explainedbelow), we use the input-generation lexicon toautomatically generate an input corpus of scene?utterance pairs that reflects the observed frequencydistribution in CDS.3 For an input utterance thatcontains an MSV, we randomly pick one of the ac-tion verbs as the verb appearing within the sententialcomplement (the ?other predicate?
).2Corpora of Brown (1973); Suppes (1974); Kuczaj (1977);Bloom et al (1974); Sachs (1983); Lieven et al (2009).3The model does not use the input-generation lexicon inlearning.54.2 Setup of SimulationsWe perform simulations by training the model ona randomly generated input corpus, and examin-ing changes in its performance over time with pe-riodic tests.
Specifically, we perform simulations ofthe verb identification task in the human simulationparadigm as follows: At each test point, we presentthe model with a partial test frame with missingpredicate (verb) values, and different amounts of in-formation for the other features.
The tests corre-spond to the scenarios in the original experiments ofPCG, where each scenario is represented by a partialframe as follows:1. scene-only scenario: Corresponds to subjectswatching a silent video depicting either an Ac-tion or a Belief scene.
Our test frame includesvalues for the semantic features (event primi-tives and event participants) corresponding tothe scene type, but no syntactic features.2.
syntax-only scenario: Corresponds to subjectshearing either an SC or a non-SC utterance.The test frame includes the corresponding syn-tactic pattern and verb count of the utterancetype heard, but no semantic features.3.
syntax & scene scenario: Corresponds to sub-jects watching a silent video (with Action orBelief content), and hearing an associated (non-SC or SC) utterance.
The test frame includes allthe relevant syntactic and semantic features.We perform 100 simulations, each on 15000randomly-generated training frames, and examinethe type of verbs that the model predicts in responseto test frames for the three scenarios.
For eachscenario and each simulation, we generate a testframe by including the relevant feature values of arandomly-selected physical action or belief verb us-age from the input-generation lexicon.PCG code the individual verb responses of theirhuman subjects into various verb classes.
To analo-gously code our model?s response to each test frame,we estimate the likelihood of each of two verbgroups, Belief and Action,4 by summing over the4The Action verbs include action, communication, and per-ception verbs, as in PCG.
Verbs from the desire group are notconsidered here, also as in PCG.Figure 1: Likelihood of Belief verb prediction given Ac-tion or Belief input.likelihood of all the verbs in that group.
In the re-sults below, these likelihood scores are averaged foreach test point over the 100 simulations.When our model is presented with a test framecontaining a Belief scene, we assume that the model(like a language learner) may not attend to the men-tal content, resulting in one of the two interpreta-tions described in Section 3.3 (see Table 2).
We thuscalculate the verb class likelihoods using a weightedaverage of the verbs predicted under the two inter-pretations.
Following PCG, we test our model withtwo types of Belief scenes: True Belief and FalseBelief, with the latter having a higher level of be-lief saliency.
We model the difference between thesetwo scene types as a difference in the probabilitiesof perceiving the two interpretations, with a higherprobability for the belief interpretation given a FalseBelief test frame.
In the experiments presented here,we set this probability to 80% for False Belief, andto 60% (just above chance) for True Belief.
(Un-like in training, where we assume a change over timein the probability of a belief interpretation, for eachpresentation of the test frame we use the same prob-abilities of the two interpretations.
)5 Experimental ResultsWe present two sets of results: In Section 5.1, weexamine the role of syntactic and semantic cues inMSV identification, by comparing the likelihoodsof the model?s Belief verb predictions across thethree scenarios.
Here we test the model after pro-cessing 15000 input frames, simulating an adult-likebehaviour (as in PCG).
At this stage, we presentthe model with an Action test frame (Action sceneand/or Transitive syntax), or a Belief test frame6(False Belief scene and/or SC syntax).
In Sec-tion 5.2, we look into the role of semantic cuesthat enhance belief saliency, by comparing the like-lihoods of Belief vs. Action verb predictions in thesyntax & scene scenario.
The test frames depict ei-ther a True Belief or a False Belief scene, paired withan SC utterance.
Here, we test our model periodi-cally to examine the developmental pattern of MSVidentification, comparing our results with the differ-ence in the behaviour of children and adults in PCG.5.1 Linguistic Cues for Belief Verb PredictionThe left side of Figure 1 presents the results of PCG(for adult subjects); the right side shows the likeli-hood of Belief verb prediction by our model.
Simi-lar to the results of PCG, our model?s likelihood ofBelief verb prediction is extremely low when givenan Action test frame (Action scene and/or Transi-tive syntax), whereas it is much higher when themodel is presented with a Belief test frame (FalseBelief scene and/or SC syntax).
Moreover, as inPCG, when the model is tested with Belief content,the lowest likelihood is for the scene-only scenarioand the highest is for the syntax & scene scenario.PCG found, somewhat surprisingly, that thesyntax-only scenario was more informative for MSVprediction than the scene-only scenario.
Our resultsreplicate this finding, which we believe is due to theway our Bayesian clustering groups verb usages to-gether.
Non-SC usages of MSVs are often groupedwith action verbs that frequently appear with non-SC syntax, and this results in constructions withmixed (action and belief) semantics.
When usingMSV semantic features to make the verb predic-tion, the action verbs get a higher likelihood basedon such mixed constructions.
However, the frequentusage of MSVs with SC results in entrenched con-structions of mostly MSVs.
Although other verbs,such as see and say, may also be used with SC syn-tax, they are grouped with verbs such as watch andtell into constructions with mixed (SC and non-SC)syntax.
When given SC syntax in verb prediction,the more coherent MSV constructions result in ahigh likelihood of predicting Belief verbs.5.2 Belief Saliency in Verb PredictionFigure 2(a) shows the PCG results, for childrenand adults, and for True Belief and False Belief.
(a)(b)(c)Figure 2: Verb class likelihood: (a) PCG results foradults and children (aged 3;7?5;9); (b) Model?s resultsgiven True Belief; (c) Model?s results given False Belief.Figures 2(b) and (c) present the likelihoods of themodel?s Belief vs. Action verb prediction, over time,for True and False Belief situations (True/False Be-lief scene and SC syntax), respectively.
We firstcompare the responses of our model at the final stageof training to those of adults in PCG.
At this stage,the model?s verb predictions (for both True and FalseBelief) follow a similar trend to that of adult sub-jects in PCG.
The likelihood of Belief verbs is muchhigher than the likelihood of Action verbs given aFalse Belief situation.
Moreover, the likelihood ofBelief verbs is higher given a False Belief situation,compared to a True Belief situation.Next, we compare the developmental pattern ofBelief/Action verb predictions in the model with thedifference in behaviour of children and adults inPCG.
We focus on the model?s responses after pro-7cessing about 3000 input pairs, as it corresponds tothe trends observed for the children in PCG.
At thisstage, the likelihood of Belief verbs is lower thanthat of Action verbs for the True Belief situation,but the pattern is reversed for False Belief; a patternsimilar to children?s behaviour in PCG (see Figure2(a)).
As in PCG, the likelihood of Belief verb pre-dictions in our model is higher than that of Actionverbs for the False Belief situation, in both ?child?and ?adult?
stages, with a larger difference as themodel ?ages?
(i.e., processes more input).
For theTrue Belief situation also the pattern is similar tothat of PCG: Belief verbs are less likely than Actionverbs to be predicted at early stages, but as the modelreceives more input, the likelihood of Belief verbsbecomes slightly higher than that of Action verbs.PCG?s hypothesis of greater attention to the actioncontent of a scene implicitly implies that childrenfocus on the action semantics and syntax of the em-bedded SC of a Belief verb.
We have suggested in-stead that the focus is on the action semantics withinthe context of the SC syntax of the MSV.
To directlyevaluate the necessity of our latter assumption, weperformed a simulation using both action syntax andsemantics to represent the physical interpretation ofthe belief scene.
Specifically, the syntactic featuresin this representation were non-SC structure withonly one verb.
Based on these settings, the modelpredicted high likelihood for the Belief verbs from avery early stage, not showing the same delayed ac-quisition pattern exhibited by PCG?s results.
Thisresult suggests that the SC syntax plays an impor-tant role in MSV acquisition.6 DiscussionVarious studies have considered why mental stateverbs (MSVs) appear relatively late in children?sproductions (e.g., Shatz et al, 1983; Bartsch andWellman, 1995).
The Human Simulation Paradigmhas revealed that adult participants tend to focus onthe physical action cues of a scene (Gleitman et al,2005).
PCG?s results further show that cues empha-sizing mental content lead to a significant increasein MSV responses in such tasks.
Moreover, theyshow that a sentential complement (SC) structure isa stronger cue to an MSV than the semantic cuesemphasizing mental content.In this paper we adapt a computational Bayesianmodel to analyze such semantic and syntactic cuesin the ability of children to identify them.
We sim-ulate an attentional mechanism of the growing sen-sitivity to mental content in a scene into the model.We show that both the ability to observe the obscuremental content and the ability to recognize the use ofan SC structure are essential to replicate PCG?s ob-servations.
Moreover, our results predict the strongassociation of MSVs to the SC syntax, for the firsttime (to our knowledge) in a computational model.Children often use verbs other than MSVs in ex-perimental settings in which MSVs would be the ap-propriate or correct verb choice (Asplin, 2002; Kiddet al, 2006; Papafragou et al, 2007).
Our modelpresents similar variability in verb choice.
One un-derlying cause of this behaviour in the model is itsassociation of action semantics to SC syntax, due tothe tendency to observe the physical cues in a sceneassociated with an utterance using an MSV with anSC.
Preliminary results (not reported here) implythat the association of perception and communica-tion verbs that frequently appear with SC contributeto this pattern of verb choice (see de Villiers, 2005,for theoretical support).
Our results require furtherwork to fully understand this behaviour.Finally, our model will facilitate future work in re-gards to the performative usage of MSVs, in whichMSVs do not indicate mental content, but rather di-rect the conversation.
Several studies (e.g., Diesseland Tomasello, 2001; Howard et al, 2008), have re-ferred to the role performative use likely plays inMSV acquisition, since the first MSV usages bychildren are performative.
The semantic propertiesMSVs take in performative usages is not currentlyrepresented in our lexicon.
However, the physicalinterpretation of the mental scene that we have usedin our experiments here is similar to the performa-tive usage: i.e., the main perceived action and theobserved syntactic structure are the same.
At themoment, our results imply that the association ofMSVs with their genuine mental meaning is delayedby interpretations of the mental scene which over-look the mental content.
In the future, we aim to in-corporate the semantic representation of performa-tive usages to better analyze their effect on MSV ac-quisition.8ReferencesAfra Alishahi and Pirita Pyykkon?en.
2011.
The on-set of syntactic bootstrapping in word learning:Evidence from a computational study.
In Pro-ceedings of the 33st Annual Conference of theCognitive Science Society.Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson.
2008.
A com-putational model of early argument structure ac-quisition.
Cognitive Science, 32(5):789?834.Kristen N. Asplin.
2002.
Can complement frameshelp children learn the meaning of abstractverbs?
Ph.D. thesis, UMass Amherst.Karen Bartsch and Henry M. Wellman.
1995.
Chil-dren talk about the mind.Lois Bloom, Lois Hood, and Patsy Lightbown.1974.
Imitation in language development: If,when, and why.
Cognitive Psychology, 6(3):380?420.Roger Brown.
1973.
A first language: The earlystages.
Harvard U. Press.Paula J.
Buttery.
2006.
Computational modelsfor first language acquisition.
Technical ReportUCAM-CL-TR-675, University of Cambridge,Computer Laboratory.Jill G. de Villiers.
2005.
Can language acquisitiongive children a point of view.
In Why LanguageMatters for Theory of Mind, pages 199?232.
Ox-ford University Press.Nicole Dehe and Anne Wichmann.
2010.
Sentence-initial I think (that) and i believe (that): Prosodicevidence for use as main clause, comment clauseand dicourse marker.
Stuides in Language,34(1):36?74.Holger Diessel and Michael Tomasello.
2001.
Theacquisition of finite complement clauses in en-glish: A corpus-based analysis.
Cognitive Lin-guistics, 12(2):97?142.David Dowty.
1991.
Thematic Proto-Roles and Ar-gument Selection.
Language, 67(3):547?619.Jane Gillette, Lila Gleitman, Henry Gleitman, andAnne Lederer.
1999.
Human simulations of lexi-cal acquisition.
Cognition, 73(2):135?176.Lila R. Gleitman, Kimberly Cassidy, RebeccaNappa, Anna Papafragou, and John C. Trueswell.2005.
Hard words.
Language Learning and De-velopment, 1(1):23?64.Alison Gopnik and Andrew N. Meltzoff.
1997.Words, thoughts, and theories.Alice A. Howard, Lara Mayeux, and Letitia R.Naigles.
2008.
Conversational correlates of chil-dren?s acquisition of mental verbs and a theory ofmind.
First Language, 28(4):375.Carl Nils Johnson and Henry M. Wellman.
1980.Children?s developing understanding of mentalverbs: Remember, know, and guess.
Child De-velopment, 51(4):1095?1102.Evan Kidd, Elena Lieven, and Michael Tomasello.2006.
Examining the role of lexical frequency inthe acquisition and processing of sentential com-plements.
Cognitive Development, 21(2):93?107.Karin Kipper, Anna Korhonen, Neville Ryant, andMartha Palmer.
2008.
A large-scale classificationof English verbs.
Language Resources and Eval-uation, 42(1):21?40?40.A.
Kuczaj, Stan.
1977.
The acquisition of regularand irregular past tense forms.
Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior, 16(5):589?600.Elena Lieven, Dorothe?
Salomo, and MichaelTomasello.
2009.
Two-year-old children?s pro-duction of multiword utterances: A usage-basedanalysis.
Cognitive Linguistics, 20(3):481?507.Brian MacWhinney.
2000.
The CHILDES project:Tools for analyzing talk, volume 2.
PsychologyPress.Deborah G. Kemler Nelson, Kathy Hirsh-Pasek, Pe-ter W. Jusczyk, and Kimberly Wright Cassidy.1989.
How the prosodic cues in motherese mightassist language learning.
Journal of child Lan-guage, 16(1):55?68.Sourabh Niyogi.
2002.
Bayesian learning at thesyntax-semantics interface.
In Proceedings of the24th Annual Conference of the Cognitive ScienceSociety.Anna Papafragou, Kimberly Cassidy, and Lila Gleit-man.
2007.
When we think about thinking:The acquisition of belief verbs.
Cognition,105(1):125?165.Christopher Parisien and Suzanne Stevenson.
2011.Generalizing between form and meaning using9learned verb classes.
In Proceedings of the 33rdAnnual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society.Amy Perfors, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and ElizabethWonnacott.
2010.
Variability, negative evidence,and the acquisition of verb argument construc-tions.
Journal of Child Language, 37(03):607?642.Willard .V.O.
Quine.
1960.
Word and object, vol-ume 4.
The MIT Press.Jacqueline Sachs.
1983.
Talking about the there andthen: The emergence of displaced reference inparent-child discourse.
Children?s Language, 4.Marilyn Shatz, Henry M. Wellman, and Sharon Sil-ber.
1983.
The acquisition of mental verbs: Asystematic investigation of the first reference tomental state.
Cognition, 14(3):301?321.Patrick Suppes.
1974.
The semantics of children?slanguage.
American Psychologist, 29(2):103.10
