Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on the People?s Web Meets NLP, ACL 2012, pages 15?19,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsCollaboratively Building Language Resources while Localising the WebAsanka Wasala, Reinhard Sch?ler, Ruvan Weerasinghe* and Chris ExtonCentre for Next Generation Localisation/Localisation Research CentreCSIS Department, University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland*University of Colombo School of Computing, 35, Reid Avenue, Colombo 00700, Sri Lanka{Asanka.Wasala, Reinhard.Schaler, Chris.Exton}@ul.ie,*arw@ucsc.cmb.ac.lkAbstractIn this paper, we propose the collaborativeconstruction of language resources (transla-tion memories) using a novel browser exten-sion-based client-server architecture thatallows translation (or ?localisation?)
of webcontent capturing and aligning source and tar-get content produced by the ?power of thecrowd?.
The architectural approach chosenenables collaborative, in-context, and real-time localisation of web content supported bythe crowd and high-quality language resources.To the best of our knowledge, this is the onlypractical web content localisation methodolo-gy currently being proposed that incorporatesthe collaborative construction and use of TMs.The approach also supports the building of re-sources such as parallel corpora ?
resourcesthat are still not available for many, and espe-cially not for underserved languages.1 IntroductionA vast amount of knowledge is available on theweb, primarily in English.
There are millions ofpeople worldwide, who cannot assimilate thisknowledge mainly due the language service barrier.Although English is still dominating the web, thesituation is changing.
Non-English content isgrowing rapidly (Large and Moukdad, 2000; Dan-iel Brandon, 2001; Wasala and Weerasinghe,2008).Localisation is the translation and adaptation ofdigital content.
Localisation of a website involves?translating text, content and adjusting graphicaland visual elements, content and examples to makethem culturally appropriate?
(Stengers et al, 2004).However, the scope of our research is limited tothe translation of text, which is arguably the mostcrucial component of web content localisation.The study of web content localisation is a rela-tively new field within academia (Jim?nez-Crespo,2011).
The only reported approaches to websitelocalisation are human (Daniel Brandon, 2001) andmachine-based translation (Large and Moukdad,2000; Daniel Brandon, 2001; Wasala and We-erasinghe, 2008), with only very basic collabora-tive (Horvat, 2012) or first in-context approaches(Boxma, 2012) attempted.
Although researchershave reported on the use of Machine Translation(MT) in web content localisation (Gaspari, 2007),the low quality of the MT-based website transla-tion solutions is known to have been a significantdrawback (Large and Moukdad, 2000; DanielBrandon, 2001).
Moreover, the research and de-velopment of MT systems for less-resourced lan-guages is still in its infancy (Wasala andWeerasinghe, 2008).
Therefore, MT-based webcontent localisation solutions are clearly not viablefor less-resourced languages.Undoubtedly, Web 2.0 and the constant in-crease of User Generated Content (UGC) lead to ahigher demand for translation.
The trend of crowd-sourcing/social translation came into play only inthe last few years.
In this paper, we focus oncrowdsourcing translation, i.e.
when the crowd or amotivated part of it, participates in an open call totranslate some content, creating highly valuablelanguage resources in the process.Browser extensions enhance the functionality ofweb browsers.
Various browser extensions alreadyexist that are capable of utilising existing MachineTranslation (MT) services to translate web contentinto different languages.
We exploit the power of15browser extensions to design a conceptual localiza-tion layer for the web.
Our research is mainly in-spired by the works of Exton et al (2009) on real-time localisation of desktop software using thecrowd, Wasala and Weerasngihe (2008) on brows-er based pop-up dictionary extension, and Sch?leron information sharing across languages (2012a) aswell as social localisation (2012b).The proposed architecture enables in-contextreal-time localisation of web content by communi-ties sharing not just their content but also their lan-guage skills.
The ultimate aim of this work is thecollaborative creation of TMs which will allow forthe automatic translation of web content based onreviewed and quality-checked, human producedtranslations.
To the best of the authors?
knowledge,this is the first effort of its kind to utilise the powerof browser extensions along with TMs to build awebsite independent conceptual localisation layerwith the aid of crowdsourcing.The rest of the paper is organized as follows:Section 2 describes the architecture of the pro-posed system in detail; the development of the pro-totype is discussed in section 3; section 4 discusseskey outstanding challenges and constraints of theproposed architecture; and finally, this paper con-cludes with a summary and discussion of futureresearch directions.2 System ArchitectureIn this section, the main functionalities of the pro-posed system architecture are described in detail.The proposed system architecture is based onearlier work by Exton et al (2009).
They proposeda client-server architecture known as Update-Log-Daemon (UpLoD) for the localisation of applica-tions?
User Interface (UI) by the crowd.
However,in our architecture, clients (browsers) connect tothe central server via a browser extension.
Thebrowser extension implements the UpLoD archi-tecture, which acts as a proxy between the browserand the central server.We also extend the functionality of the centralserver in this architecture by equipping it with acomponent to maintain TMs for different languagepairs.2.1  Content Retrieval and Rendering ProcessWhen the browser extension is installed and ena-bled, it allows a user to select the preferred locale.When a new URL is typed in, the browser willdownload the page.
As soon as the content isdownloaded, the browser extension will consult thecentral server for any TM matches in the user?spreferred locale for the relevant URL.
The TMmatches will be retrieved with the contextual in-formation.
The next step is to replace the originalcontent with the retrieved TM matches.
With theaid of contextual hints that it received, the TMmatches (i.e.
target strings) will be replaced withthe source strings.
Finally, the content will be ren-dered in the browser.
The contextual informationmay include: URL, last update date/time stamp,surrounding text with and without tags, XPath lo-cation of the segment, CSS properties among oth-ers as this information will helpful to preciselylocate HTML elements in a web page (Selenium2012).
For replacing the original text with targetstrings, techniques such as Regular-expressionsmatching and XPath queries may be utilized.2.2 Content Translation ProcessThe browser extension also facilitates the in-context translation of source content.
Right click-ing on a selected text will bring up a contextualmenu where a ?Translate?
sub-menu can be found.The extension allows in-context translation ofthe selected content segment in an editing envi-ronment similar to Wikipedia.
Once the translationis completed, the extension sends the translatedsegment, original content and contextual infor-mation including URL to the central sever.
Uponreceiving translations from a client, the centralserver stores all the information that it retrieves ina TM.The central server can be scheduled to periodi-cally leverage translations as the TMs grow.
Fur-thermore, later on, MT systems can be trained fromthe TM data and these trained MT systems canfeed back into the system to speed up the trans-lation process as well as to translate the contentwhere TM matches are not found.2.3 Translation Editing and Voting ProcessAs in the case of software localisation (Exton et al,2009), a mechanism has to be built to choose themost appropriate translation of a given text seg-ment.
To assist in selecting the best translation fora given segment, a voting mechanism is proposed.16However, human intervention (mainly the opinionsof experts) is essential to solve potential conflicts.Right clicking on a translated segment bringsup a context menu, where the current translationalong with the top 3 alternative translations is dis-played.
The votes for each translation will also bedisplayed next to the translation.
The users are giv-en the opportunity to edit the current translationand/or to vote any of the alternative translations.Furthermore, clicking on an alternative transla-tion will take the user to a web page where the usercan see all the alternative translations that are pro-posed for the selected segment.
In that page userscan vote for any of the alternate translations.Considering the motivation factors related tocrowdsourcing, a simple ?thumbs up, thumbsdown?
voting is proposed over complex and con-fusing rating systems.
If the user wishes to edit theexisting translation, they can simply go to the in-context edit mode and edit the content.
Once edit-ing has been performed, the new translation is sentback to the central server.
The central server com-pares the new changes with the existing transla-tions and includes it as an alternative translation.The central server needs to keep track of thevotes as well as the voters.
By keeping track ofvoters, users can be encouraged to vote for addi-tional translations using ranking systems similar tothose implemented in games.3 Development of the PrototypeTo test the above architecture, we developed a pro-totype with the aid of two open source FirefoxAdd-ons:1.
Ingiya ?
a pop-up dictionary Firefox add-onsimilar to the add-on described by Wasala andWeerasinghe (2008);2.
FoxReplace ?
a Firefox add-on that can au-tomatically replace textual content with the aidof a predefined substitution list.Ingiya, a non-intrusive add-on, shows Sinhaladefinitions of English terms when the mousepointer is hovered on top of English words in aweb site.
It is also capable of temporarily replacingSinhala definitions with English words (i.e.
as soonas the page is refreshed, the translations disappear).Currently, the Ingiya add-on only supports indi-vidual words.
The dictionary entries are storedwithin a local database.The add-on was first modified to supportphrases (selected text segments) in addition to in-dividual words and to be able to collect translationsfor a selected phrase from the user.
We submittedthe selected text segment, user?s translations andthe URL of the active tab of the browser via Ingiyaadd-on to the central server as a RESTful call.
Weencoded the above data using the Punycode algo-rithm prior to submission.We then implemented the central server usingPHP.
In this prototype, the server mainly performsthree functions: 1) It accepts data sent via browseradd-ons, decode the data and stores in it?s localdatabase 2) Upon a request from a client, it trans-forms and sends the data in its local database into aXML based format understood by FoxReplace ad-don, 3) It can transform and sends data in it?s localdatabase into an XML Localisation InterchangeFile Format (XLIFF) file that can be used as a TM.The FoxReplace add-on is capable of retrievinga regular expression-based source and target sub-stitution list encoded in a specific XML format andreplacing text in a web page.
Different substitu-tions can be defined for different URLs.
The Fox-Replace add-on was configured to retrievetranslations (i.e.
substitution list) from the centralserver.
When combined, these two add-ons alongwith the central server are able to implement anddemonstrate the UpLoD architecture described inthe pervious section.
The exception is the votingmechanism which has not yet been implementedbut is part of on-going work by the research group.4 Discussion: Outstanding ChallengesWhile most of the issues and challenges empha-sised in the UpLoD-based architecture (Exton et al,2009) are common to the architecture proposed inthis article, web content localisation also faces ad-ditional, unique technical challenges.Web pages consist of not only text, but alsonon-textual content such as images, audio clips,videos and various embedded objects (e.g.
Java,Flash, PDF or Silverlight content) (Daniel Brandon2001; Stengers et al, 2004).
Textual content repre-sented in graphics such as banners is also verycommon in web sites.
The current architecturehowever does not deal with localisation of non-textual content found in websites.
Even with the17textual content, font and rendering problems maysurface in the localised version.Another issue that can occur in a crowdsourcedlocalisation model as noted by Exton et al (2009)is the primary focus on translation of the frequentlyused content by the crowd.
This issue is likely tosurface in the web content localisation scenario aswell.
It will result in untranslated content of infre-quently visited sections of the web sites.Issues related to translation voting, especiallythe 'thrashing' scenarios as described by Exton et al(2009) need to be addressed in this scenario too.The optimum human translation rating mecha-nisms, as well as motivations for rating these, haveto be explored further.Another important factor is the design of amethodology for coping with constant updates ofwebsites.
We would expect that a large TM mighthelp to alleviate the above problem to a certaindegree.One of the advantages of the above methodolo-gy is that, once the entire web page is completelytranslated, the translated page can be cached in thecentral server for improved performance.
On theother hand, the localisation layer is only accessiblevia the browser extension.
Therefore, users are notable to interact with the website using their nativelanguage, nor would these pages be indexed bysearch engines (i.e.
the localised version).In addition to various technical issues discussedabove, legal issues could potentially be encoun-tered which need to be thoroughly examined, iden-tified and addressed prior to the deployment of theproposed solution.
The first question that needs tobe answered is if people have a right to localisewebsites without the consent of the web site own-ers.
Moreover, the TMs (for each language pair)will keep on growing once the crowd starts usingthis framework.
Legal implications around theTMs have to be thoroughly considered.
For exam-ple, questions such as who owns the TMs needs tobe addressed.The accuracy of the translations is one of thecrucial aspects that need to be considered.
It is es-sential to investigate necessary steps to preventpossible misuse.
Misuse of the service can be alle-viated to a certain extent by developing a log-onmechanism where users have to be authenticatedby the central server to access the localisation ser-vice.
Furthermore, individuals who contributetranslations as well as individuals who vote fortranslations can be tracked and rewarded.
Thus,these individuals can be further motivated with theuse of public announcements and ranking (or med-al offering) systems as in games.Website localisation is not just the translation oftext in a website.
Various ethical, cultural and re-gional issues have to be taken into account whenlocalising a website.
Therefore, a reviewing mech-anism such as observed in the Wikipedia commu-nity has to be built in to this model.5  Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we have discussed the developmentof a browser extension-based website independentclient-server architecture that facilitates the collab-orative creation of TMs used for the localisation ofweb content.
As this approach uses TMs construct-ed with the aid of the crowd and reviewed by ex-perts where necessary, rather than an MT system,better quality translations can be expected.
Thedevelopment of the prototype has proven the via-bility of the proposed approach.
Future researchwill focus mainly on addressing the issues relatedto central server services discussed above.
Moreo-ver, the development of a (single) Firefox add-onencompassing all the functionalities described insection 3 has already shown good results.To the best of our knowledge, this is the onlypractical web content localisation approach pro-posed which is based on the collaborative con-struction of TMs utilising the power of browserextensions combined with micro-crowdsourcing.The current architecture will be especially useful inthe case of less-resourced languages where MTsystems are not (yet) viable.
The proposed systemfocuses on the building of language resources, suchas translation memories but also parallel corpora,which could be used for the development of MTsystems in the future.AcknowledgmentsThis research is supported by the Science Founda-tion Ireland (Grant 07/CE/I1142) as part of theCentre for Next Generation Localisation at theUniversity of Limerick.
The prototype was imple-mented based on Ingiya and FoxReplace add-ons.The authors would like to thank the authors of andthe contributors to the above add-ons.References18Boxma, H. (2012).
RIGI Localization SolutionsRetrieved April 01, 2012, fromhttps://sites.google.com/a/rigi-ls.com/www/homeDaniel Brandon, J.
(2001).
Localization of web content.J.
Comput.
Small Coll., 17(2), 345-358.Exton, C., Wasala, A., Buckley, J., & Sch?ler, R. (2009).Micro Crowdsourcing: A new Model for SoftwareLocalisation.
Localisation Focus, 8(1), 81-89.Gaspari, F. (2007).
The Role of Online MT in WebpageTranslation.
Doctor of Philosophy, University ofManchester, Manchester, Retrieved June 28, 2011,fromhttp://www.localisation.ie/resources/Awards/Theses/F_Gaspari_Thesis.pdfHorvat, M. (2012).
Live Website Localization.
W3CWorkshop: The Multilingual Web ?
The Way Ahead,Luxembourg, Retrieved April 01,  2012, fromhttp://mozeg.com/pontoon-mlw.htmlJim?nez-Crespo, M. A.
(2011).
To adapt or not to adaptin web localization: a contrastive genre-based studyof original and localised legal sections in corporatewebsites.
JoSTrans (The Journal of SpecialTranslation)(15).Large, A., & Moukdad, H. (2000).
Multilingual accessto web resources: an overview.
Program: ElectronicLibrary and Information Systems, 34(1), 43 - 58. doi:10.1108/EUM0000000006938Sch?ler, R. (2012a).
Information Sharing AcrossLanguages Computer-Mediated Communicationacross Cultures: International Interactions in OnlineEnvironments (pp.
215-234): IGI Global.Sch?ler, R. (2012b).
Introducing Social Localisation.Workshop.
Localization World, Silicon Valley,.Retrieved April 02, 2012 fromhttp://www.slideshare.net/TheRosettaFound/social-localisationSelenium Project.
(2012).
Selenium-IDE - LocatingElements.
Retreived May 14, 2012 from:http://seleniumhq.org/docs/02_selenium_ide.html#locating-elementsStengers, H., Troyer, O. D., Baetens, M., Boers, F., &Mushtaha, A. N. (2004).
Localization of Web Sites:Is there still a need for it?
Paper presented at theInternational Workshop on Web Engineering (held inconjunction with the ACM HyperText 2004Conference), Santa Cruz, USA.Wasala, A., & Weerasinghe, R. (2008).
EnSiTip: A Toolto Unlock the English Web.
Paper presented at the11th International Conference on Humans andComputers, Nagaoka University of Technology,Japan.19
