Proceedings of the 2012 Student Research Workshop, pages 7?12,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetecting Power Relations from Written DialogVinodkumar PrabhakaranDepartment of Computer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027, USAvinod@cs.columbia.eduAbstractIn my thesis I propose a data-oriented studyon how social power relations between par-ticipants manifest in the language and struc-ture of online written dialogs.
I propose thatthere are different types of power relationsand they are different in the ways they are ex-pressed and revealed in dialog and across dif-ferent languages, genres and domains.
So far,I have defined four types of power and anno-tated them in corporate email threads in En-glish and found support that they in fact man-ifest differently in the threads.
Using dialogand language features, I have built a system topredict participants possessing these types ofpower within email threads.
I intend to extendthis system to other languages, genres and do-mains and to improve it?s performance usingdeeper linguistic analysis.1 IntroductionSocial relations like power and influence are difficultconcepts to define, but are easily recognizable whenexpressed.
Most classical definitions of power inthe sociology literature (e.g.
(Bierstedt, 1950; Dahl,1957)) include ?an element indicating that power isthe capability of one social actor to overcome re-sistance in achieving a desired objective or result?
(Pfeffer, 1981).
Influence closely resembles power,although some consider it as one of the means bywhich power is used (Handy, 1985).
The five basesof power ?
Coercive, Reward, Legitimate (Posi-tional), Referent, and Expert ?
proposed by Frenchand Raven (1959) and its extensions are widely usedin sociology to study power.
I find these definitionsand typologies helpful as general background, butnot specific enough for a data-oriented study on howthey are expressed in online written dialogs.One of the primary ways power is manifested isthe manner in which people participate in dialog.Power relations sometimes constrain how one be-haves when engaging in dialog; in some other cases,they enable one to constrain someone else?s behav-ior.
And in some cases, the dialog behavior becomesa tool to express and even pursue power.
By dialogbehavior, I mean the choices one makes while en-gaging in dialog.
It includes choices with respectto the message content, like lexical choices, degreeof politeness or instances of overt display of powersuch as orders or commands.
It also includes choicesparticipants make in terms of dialog structure, likethe choice of when to participate with how much andwhat sort of contribution, how many questions to askand which of those questions to answer and the timebetween those questions and their answers.The primary goal of my thesis is to show thatdifferent social power relations manifest themselvesin written dialog in different, but predictable ways,and to investigate how these manifestations differacross languages, genres and domains.
To achievethis goal, I aim to introduce a new typology of powerthat is relevant in online written interactions and canbe validated using data-oriented approaches.
Then, Iaim to study how these different types of power dif-fer in their manifestations in dialog.
Specifically, Iaim to capture and compare these manifestations intwo dimensions of the dialog: content and structure.In addition to using existing components like dialogact taggers and linkers to capture the dialog structure7and lexical analyzers to capture content features, Iplan to identify and extract more structural and lin-guistic indicators of power relations.
Using thesefeatures, I will build a system that can automati-cally extract power relations between participants ofwritten dialogs across different languages (Englishvs.
Arabic), genres (discussion forums vs. emails)and domains (political vs. scientific).
Currently, Ihave partially achieved this goal within the contextof English corporate email threads, which representa specific language-genre-domain combination.
Thefour types of power I have defined are: situationalpower, hierarchical power, control of communica-tion and influence.
My future research directions in-clude 1) broadening this work onto other languages,genres and domains and 2) using deeper analysis toidentify more indicators of power and capture powerrelations at finer granularity2 Literature surveyIt has long been established that there is a correla-tion between dialog behavior of a discourse partic-ipant and how influential she is perceived to be bythe other discourse participants (Bales et al, 1951;Scherer, 1979; Ng et al, 1995).
Specifically, fac-tors such as frequency of contribution, proportion ofturns, and number of successful interruptions havebeen identified as being important indicators of in-fluence.
Locher (2004) recognizes ?restriction ofan interactant?s action-environment?
(Wartenberg,1990) as a key element by which exercise of powerin interactions can be identified.
I use a linguis-tic indicator Overt Display of Power which cap-tures action-restriction at an utterance level.
Warten-berg (1990) also makes the important distinction be-tween two notions of power: power-over and power-to.
Power-over refers to hierarchical relationshipsbetween interactants, while power-to refers to theability an interactant possesses (may be temporar-ily) and can use within the interaction.
My notionsof hierarchical power and situational power roughlycorrespond to Wartenberg?s notions of power-overand power-to, respectively.
Both can be consideredspecial cases of French and Raven (1959)?s notionof legitimate power.
I consider influence as a typeof power which captures notions of expert powerand referent power described by French and Raven.Finally, my notion of control of communication isbased on the concept of conversational control in-troduced by Ng and Bradac (1993).
It is a form ofpower the participant has over the interaction; otherforms of power are modeled between participants.In computational literature, several studies haveused Social Network Analysis (Diesner and Carley,2005; Shetty and Adibi, 2005; Creamer et al, 2009)to deduce social relations from online communica-tion.
These studies use only meta-data about mes-sages: who sent a message to whom and when.
Forexample, Creamer et al (2009) find that the responsetime is an indicator of hierarchical relations; how-ever, they calculate the response time based only onthe meta-data, and do not have access to informationsuch as thread structure or message content, whichwould actually verify that the second email is in facta response to the first.Using NLP to analyze the content of messages todeduce power relations from written dialog is a rela-tively new area which has been studied only recently(Strzalkowski et al, 2010; Bramsen et al, 2011;Peterson et al, 2011).
Using knowledge of the or-ganizational structure, Bramsen et al (2011) createtwo sets of messages: messages sent from a supe-rior to a subordinate, and vice versa.
Their task isto determine the direction of power (since all theirdata, by construction of the corpus, has a power re-lationship).
They approach the task as a text classi-fication problem and build a classifier to determinewhether the set of all emails (regardless of thread)between two participants is an instance of up-speakor down-speak.
In contrast, I plan to use a com-plete communication thread as a data unit and cap-ture instances where power is actually manifested.
Ialso plan to study power in a broader sense, look-ing beyond power attributed by hierarchy to otherforms of power.
Strzalkowski et al (2010) are alsointerested in power in written dialog.
However, theirwork concentrates on lower-level constructs calledLanguage Uses, which might indicate higher levelsocial constructs such as leadership and power.
Thissaid, one of their language uses is agenda control,which is very close to our notion of conversationalcontrol.
They model it using notions of topic switch-ing, using mainly complex lexical features.
Peter-son et al (2011) focuses on formality in Enron emailmessages and relates it to social distance and power.83 Work done so far: Power in CorporateEmailsSo far, I have worked on my primary goal ?
study-ing manifestations of social power relations ?
withinthe context of English corporate email threads.
Forthis purpose, I used a subset of email threads from aversion of the Enron email corpus (Yeh and Harnly,2006) in which messages are organized as threadedconversations.
In the remainder of this section, I firstintroduce the power typology and annotations andthen present the linguistic and structural features Iused.
Then, I present the findings from a statisticalsignificance study conducted between these featuresand different types of power.
Finally, I present a sys-tem built using these features to predict participantswith power within an email thread.Power Typology and Annotations: After care-ful analysis of a part of the email corpus, I defined apower typology to capture different types of powerrelevant in corporate emails.
I propose four types ofpower: situational power, hierarchical power, con-trol of communication and influence.1 Person 1 issaid to have situational power (SP) over person 2if person 1 has power or authority to direct and/orapprove person 2?s actions in the current situationor while a particular task is being performed, as canbe deduced from the communication in the currentthread.
Person 1 with situational power may or maynot be above person 2 in the organizational hierar-chy (or there may be no organizational hierarchy atall).
Person 1 is said to have hierarchical power(HP) over person 2 if person 1 appears to be aboveperson 2 in the organizational hierarchy, as can bededuced from the communication in the given thread(annotators did not have access to independent in-formation about the organizational hierarchy).
Pos-sible clues to HP include (by way of example): 1)characteristic of a part of a message as being an ap-proval, or being a direct order; 2) a person?s behav-ior such as asking for approval; 3) a person?s au-thority to make the final decision.
A person is saidto have control of the communication (CNTRL) ifshe actively attempts to achieve the intended goalsof the communication.
These are people who askquestions, request others to take action, etc.
and1This typology is an extension of an initial typology formu-lated through collaborative effort with another student.not people who simply respond to questions or per-form actions when directed to do so.
A thread couldhave multiple such participants.
A person is saidto have influence (INFL) if she 1) has credibilityin the group, 2) persists in attempting to convinceothers, even if some disagreement occurs, 3) intro-duces topics/ideas that others pick up on or support,and 4) is a group participant but not necessarily ac-tive in the discussion(s) where others support/credither.
In addition, the influencer?s ideas or languagemay be adopted by others and others may explic-itly recognize influencer?s authority.2 Prabhakaranet al (2012a) presents more details on annotationsof these power relations in the email corpus.Manifestations in Content and Stucture: I usedsix sets of features to explore manifestations ofpower: dialog act percentages (DAP), dialog linkcounts (DLC), positional (PST), verbosity (VRB),lexical (LEX) and overt display of power (ODP).The first four sets of features relate to the whole di-alog and its structure while the last two relate to theform and content of individual messages.
The emailcorpus I used has been previously annotated with di-alog acts and links by other researchers (Hu et al,2009).
I used these annotations to capture DAP andDLC features.
DAP captures percentages of each ofthe dialog act labels (Request Action, Request In-formation, Inform, Conventional, and Commit) ag-gregated over all messages sent by the participantwithin the thread.
The dialog links include forwardlinks which denote utterances with requests for in-formation or actions, backward links which denotetheir responses and secondary forward links whichdenote utterances without explicit requests that wereinterpreted as requests and were linked back fromlater utterances.
DLC captures various features de-rived from these links with respect to each partici-pant such as counts of each type of link, counts offorward links that are connected back and countsand percentages of those which were not connectedback.
PST includes features to indicate relative posi-tions of first and last messages by a participant.
VRBincludes features to denote how much and how oftena participant took part in the conversation.
PST and2I adopt this definition from the IARPA Socio-Cultural Con-tent in Language (SCIL) program, where many researchers par-ticipating in the SCIL program contributed to the scope and re-finement of the definition of a person with influence.9VRB are readily derivable from the email threads.
Iused simple word ngram features to capture LEX.Overt display of power (ODP) is a linguistic indi-cator of power I introduced.
An utterer can chooselinguistic forms in her utterance to signal that sheis imposing constraints on the addressee?s choiceof how to respond, which go beyond those definedby the standard set of dialog acts.
For example, ifthe boss?s email is ?Please come to my office rightnow?, and the addressee declines, he is clearly notadhering to the constraints the boss has signaled,though he is adhering to the general constraints ofcooperative dialog by responding to the request foraction.
I am interested in these additional constraintsimposed on utterances through choices in linguisticform.
I define an utterance to have ODP if it is in-terpreted as creating additional constraints on the re-sponse beyond those imposed by the general dialogact.
An ODP can be an order, command, questionor even a declarative sentence.
The presence of anODP does not presuppose that the utterer actuallypossess social power: the utterer could be attempt-ing to gain power.
In (Prabhakaran et al, 2012b),I present a system to identify utterances with ODPusing lexical features like word and part of speechngrams along with dialog acts of the utterance.Statistical significance study: For each type ofpower, I considered two populations of people whoparticipated in the dialog ?
Pp, those judged to havethat type of power and Pn, those not judged to havethat power.
Then, for each feature, I performed atwo-sample, two-tailed t-test comparing means offeature values of Pp and Pn.
I found many fea-tures which are statistically significant, which sug-gests that power types are reflected in the emailthreads.
I also found that the significance of fea-tures differ considerably from one type of power toanother, which suggests that these power types arereflected differently in the threads, and that they arethus indeed different types of power.
For hierarchi-cal power, the feature TokenRatio has a mean of 0.38for Pp and 0.54 for Pn with a p-value of 0.07.
Thissuggests that bosses tend to talk less within a thread.People with situational power or control request ac-tions significantly more often than others and sendsignificantly more and longer messages than others.People with influence never request actions and sendmuch longer messages than others.
They also tend tohave more secondary forward links (with a p-valueof 0.07) which suggests that people often respondto what people with influence say even if the influ-encer?s contribution is not a request.Predicting Persons with Power: I formally de-fined the problem as: given a communication threadT and an active participant X , predict whether Xhas power of type P ?
{SP, HP, INFL, CNTRL}over some person Y in the thread.
I built a binarySVM classifier for each power type P predictingwhether or not X has power P based on featureswith respect to X in the context of the given threadT .
I obtained good results for SP and CNTRL, butHP and INFL were hard to predict since they oc-curred rarely in my corpus.
The combination ofDLC and OSP performed best for SP (F = 64.4) andPST performed best for CNTRL (F = 90.0).
For HP,the combination of DLC and LEX performed best (F= 34.8).
For INFL, the best performer was DLC (F= 22.6).
All results except the ones for INFL werestatistically significant improvement over an always-true baseline.
I found dialog features to be signif-icant in predicting power, though content featuresalso contribute to detecting some types of power.4 Proposed WorkSo far, I have defined four types of power and havestudied how they are expressed and revealed in En-ron email threads.
My future research directions in-clude deepening this study by i) capturing more lin-guistic indicators of social power in dialog, ii) build-ing automatic taggers for all linguistic indicators, iii)using deeper semantic analysis on the content andiv) extending it to capture power relations at finergranularity.
I also intend to broaden this work intodifferent languages, genres and domains, adaptingwork done in email threads when viable.More power indicators : I will work on captur-ing more linguistic indicators of power from dialog.I currently have annotations at the utterance levelthat capture attempts to exercise power and attemptsto influence.
I will use these annotations to buildsystems that can automatically detect them.
In ad-dition, I plan to capture linguistic expressions thatsuggest lack of power such as asking for approvals,permissions etc.
or acting overly polite.
For this,I will have to add new annotations to the data.
I10also plan to perform deeper analysis on the contentto capture subjectivity ?
whether someone statesmore facts than opinions, commitment ?
whethersomeone commits to what she says, and the pres-ence of other modalities such as permissions, re-quirements, desires etc.
I plan to use existing workin subjectivity analysis (Wilson, 2008) and commit-ment analysis (Prabhakaran et al, 2010) for this pur-pose.
For modality analysis, I plan to use previousunpublished work that I participated in.Fully automated system: I plan to use automatictaggers to extract dialog act and link features andother linguistic indicators of power (like ODP), tobuild a fully automated social power extraction sys-tem.
Hu et al (2009) presented a dialog act taggerand link predictor which could be used to extractDAP and DLC.
However, I found their dialog acttagger performs poorly on minority classes such asrequests for actions, which are more critical to pre-dict power.
Their link predictor obtained an F mea-sure of 35% which makes it unfit to be used in itscurrent form.
For ODP, I will use the SVM clas-sifier I built, which obtained a best cross validationF measure of 65.8.
I plan to improve the perfor-mance of the dialog act tagger, the link predictor andthe ODP tagger using new features and techniques.I plan to use a threshold adjustment algorithm pro-posed by Lin et al (2007) to handle the class imbal-ance problem in dialog act tagger and link predictor(ODP tagger already uses this).
I will also build au-tomatic taggers for all other linguistic indicators ofpower discussed above.Deeper Semantic Analysis I will explore newfeatures derived from deeper semantic analysis toimprove performance of the dialog act tagger, thelink predictor and the taggers for other indicators ofpower like ODP.
In particular, I plan to use seman-tic information from VerbNet to provide useful ab-straction of verbs into verb classes.
This will reducedata sparseness, thereby improving the performanceof the taggers.
In an initial experiment, I found thatusing VerbNet class name instead of verb lemma im-proved the performance of ODP tagger by a smallmargin.
I did this only for those verbs that belongto a single VerbNet class (hence needing no dis-ambiguation).
I will explore ways to disambiguateverbs with multiple VerbNet class assignments andemploy this feature in other taggers as well.Finer granularity of relations: I will enhancethe system to predict power relations between pairsof participants.
Aggregating features at the partic-ipant level is prone to noise.
For example, let X ,Y , Z be active participants such that X has powerover Y , who has power over Z .
When we aggregatefeatures with respect to Y , we are introducing noisefrom the part of communication between X and Y .Extending my work to the person pair level wouldprevent this noise and provide us with a finer gran-ularity of power relations.
Formally, I want to pre-dict if person X has power P over person Y , givena communication thread T .
My power annotationsalready capture the recipient (person 2) of power re-lations which I will use for this purpose.Language, genre and domain adaptation: I willextend my work in the English email threads to otherlanguages, genres and domains.
Specifically, I planto work on existing data containing Wikipedia dis-cussion threads and political forums in both Englishand Arabic.
Thus, my thesis would include theanalysis of power under 5 different language-genre-domain settings.
This step will need extensive an-notation efforts.
I expect that my proposed powertypology might need to be refined to capture typesof relations in the new genres.
Also, I may haveto define new linguistic indicators relevant to thenew genres or refine the ones I identified for emailthreads to adapt to the new genres.
This would alsorequire me to adapt various subsystems/taggers tocapture features such as dialog acts, links, ODP etc.to new genres or build new systems.5 ConclusionIn my thesis, I propose to study how different powerrelations are manifested in the structure and lan-guage of online written dialogs and build a systemto automatically extract power relations from them.I have already conducted this study in English emailthreads and I plan to extend this to other languages,genres and domains.6 AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported, in part, by the Johns Hop-kins Human Language Technology Center of Ex-cellence.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusionsor recommendations expressed in this material are11those of the author and do not necessarily reflect theviews of the sponsor.
I thank my advisors Dr. OwenRambow and Dr. Mona Diab for their valuable guid-ance and support.
I thank Daniel Bauer for usefuldiscussions and feedback on this proposal.ReferencesRobert F. Bales, Fred L. Strodtbeck, Theodore M. Mills,and Mary E. Roseborough.
1951.
Channels of com-munication in small groups.
American SociologicalReview, pages 16(4), 461?468.Robert Bierstedt.
1950.
An Analysis of Social Power.American Sociological Review.Philip Bramsen, Martha Escobar-Molano, Ami Patel, andRafael Alonso.
2011.
Extracting social power rela-tionships from natural language.
In ACL, pages 773?782.
The Association for Computer Linguistics.Germa?n Creamer, Ryan Rowe, Shlomo Hershkop, andSalvatore J. Stolfo.
2009.
Advances in web min-ing and web usage analysis.
chapter Segmentationand Automated Social Hierarchy Detection throughEmail Network Analysis, pages 40?58.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg.Robert A. Dahl.
1957.
The concept of power.
Syst.
Res.,2(3):201?215.Jana Diesner and Kathleen M. Carley.
2005.
Explorationof communication networks from the enron email cor-pus.
In In Proc.
of Workshop on Link Analysis, Coun-terterrorism and Security, SIAM International Confer-ence on Data Mining 2005, pages 21?23.John R. French and Bertram Raven.
1959.
The Bases ofSocial Power.
In Dorwin Cartwright, editor, Studies inSocial Power, pages 150?167+.
University of Michi-gan Press.Charles B.
Handy.
1985.
Understanding Organisations.Institute of Purchasing & Supply.Jun Hu, Rebecca Passonneau, and Owen Rambow.
2009.Contrasting the interaction structure of an email and atelephone corpus: A machine learning approach to an-notation of dialogue function units.
In Proceedings ofthe SIGDIAL 2009 Conference, London, UK, Septem-ber.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Hsuan-Tien Lin, Chih-Jen Lin, and Ruby C. Weng.
2007.A note on platt?s probabilistic outputs for support vec-tor machines.
Mach.
Learn., 68:267?276, October.Miriam A. Locher.
2004.
Power and politeness in ac-tion: disagreements in oral communication.
Lan-guage, power, and social process.
M. de Gruyter.Sik Hung.
Ng and James J. Bradac.
1993.
Power in lan-guage : verbal communication and social influence /Sik Hung Ng, James J. Bradac.
Sage Publications,Newbury Park :.Sik Hung Ng, Mark Brooke, , and Michael Dunne.1995.
Interruption and influence in discussion groups.Journal of Language and Social Psychology, pages14(4),369?381.Kelly Peterson, Matt Hohensee, and Fei Xia.
2011.Email formality in the workplace: A case study onthe enron corpus.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Language in Social Media (LSM 2011), pages 86?95, Portland, Oregon, June.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Jeffrey Pfeffer.
1981.
Power in organizations.
Pitman,Marshfield, MA.Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Owen Rambow, and MonaDiab.
2010.
Automatic committed belief tagging.In Coling 2010: Posters, pages 1014?1022, Beijing,China, August.
Coling 2010 Organizing Committee.Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Owen Rambow, and MonaDiab.
2012a.
Annotations for power relations onemail threads.
In Proceedings of the Eighth confer-ence on International Language Resources and Eval-uation (LREC?12), Istanbul, Turkey, May.
EuropeanLanguage Resources Association (ELRA).Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Owen Rambow, and MonaDiab.
2012b.
Predicting overt display of power inwritten dialogs.
In Human Language Technologies:The 2012 Annual Conference of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, Montreal, Canada, June.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.K.
R. Scherer.
1979.
Voice and speech correlates of per-ceived social influence in simulated juries.
In H. Gilesand R. St Clair (Eds), Language and social psychol-ogy, pages 88?120.
Oxford: Blackwell.Jitesh Shetty and Jafar Adibi.
2005.
Discovering im-portant nodes through graph entropy the case of en-ron email database.
In Proceedings of the 3rd inter-national workshop on Link discovery, LinkKDD ?05,pages 74?81, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Tomek Strzalkowski, George Aaron Broadwell, JenniferStromer-Galley, Samira Shaikh, Sarah Taylor, andNick Webb.
2010.
Modeling socio-cultural phenom-ena in discourse.
In Proceedings of the 23rd Interna-tional Conference on COLING 2010, Beijing, China,August.
Coling 2010 Organizing Committee.Thomas E. Wartenberg.
1990.
The forms of power:from domination to transformation.
Temple Univer-sity Press.Theresa Wilson.
2008.
Annotating subjective content inmeetings.
In Proceedings of the Language Resourcesand Evaluation Conference.
LREC-2008, Springer.AMIDA-85.Jen-yuan Yeh and Aaron Harnly.
2006.
Email threadreassembly using similarity matching.
In In Proc.
ofCEAS.12
