Proceedings of the 6th EACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 75?84,Avignon, France, 24 April 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Classical Chinese Corpus with Nested Part-of-Speech TagsJohn LeeThe Halliday Centre for Intelligent Applications of Language StudiesDepartment of Chinese, Translation and LinguisticsCity University of Hong Kongjsylee@cityu.edu.hkAbstractWe introduce a corpus of classicalChinese poems that has been wordsegmented and tagged with parts-of-speech (POS).
Due to the ill-definedconcept of a ?word?
in Chinese, previousChinese corpora suffer from a lack ofstandardization in word segmentation,resulting in inconsistencies in POS tags,therefore hindering interoperabilityamong corpora.
We address this problemwith nested POS tags, whichaccommodates different theories ofwordhood and facilitates researchobjectives requiring annotations of the?word?
at different levels of granularity.1 IntroductionThere has been much effort in enriching textcorpora with linguistic information, such asparts-of-speech (Francis and Ku?era, 1982) andsyntactic structures (Marcus et al, 1993).
Thepast decade has seen the development of Chinesecorpora, mostly for Modern Chinese (McEnery& Xiao, 2004; Xue et al, 2005), but also a fewfor pre-modern, or ?classical?, Chinese (Wei etal.
97; Huang et al 2006; Hu & McLaughlin2007).One common design issue for any corpus ofChinese, whether modern or classical, is wordsegmentation.
Yet, no segmentation standard hasemerged in the computational linguistics researchcommunity.
Hence, two adjacent charactersX1X2 may be considered a single word in onecorpus, but treated as two distinct words X1 andX2 in another1; furthermore, the part-of-speech(POS) tag assigned to X1X2 in the first corpusmay differ from the tag for X1 and the tag for X2in the second.
These inconsistencies have madeit difficult to compare, combine or exploitChinese corpora.
This paper addresses thisproblem by proposing a new method for wordsegmentation and POS tagging for Chinese andapplying it on a corpus of classical Chinesepoems.2 Research ObjectiveA Chinese character may either function as aword by itself, or combine with its neighbor(s) toform a multi-character word.
Since the goal ofpart-of-speech (POS) tagging is to assign one tagto each word, a prerequisite step is wordsegmentation, i.e., drawing word boundarieswithin a string of Chinese characters.
Thegeneral test for ?wordhood?
is whether ?themeaning of the whole is compositional of itsparts?
; in other words, X1X2 forms one wordwhen the meaning of the characters X1X2 doesnot equal to the meaning of X1 plus the meaningof X2 (Feng, 1998).
Consider the string ??
shamen ?Buddhist monk?.
As a transliteration fromSanskrit, it bears no semantic relation with itsconstituent characters ?
sha ?sand?
and ?
men?door?.
The two characters therefore form oneword.From the point of view of corpusdevelopment, word segmentation has twoconsequences.
First, it defines the smallest unitfor POS analysis.
It would be meaningless toanalyze the POS of the individual characters as,1 This phenomenon can be compared with what is oftenknown as multiword expressions (Sag et al, 2002) in otherlanguages.75say, ?/NN and ?/NN (see Table 1 for the list ofPOS tags used in this paper).
Instead, the twocharacters sha and men together should beassigned one POS tag, ?
?/NN.Second, word segmentation sets boundariesfor automatic word retrieval.
A simple stringsearch for ?sha men?
on a non-segmented corpusmight yield spurious matches, where sha is thelast character of the preceding word, and men isthe first character of the following one.
In aword study on ?
?
ben jue ?originalenlightenment?
(Lancaster, 2010), based on anon-segmented corpus of the Chinese BuddhistCanon, the author needed to manually examineeach of the 763 occurrences of the string ben juein order to determine which of them are in factthe word in question, rather than accidentalcollocations of the two characters.
Wordboundaries resulting from word segmentationwould have removed these ambiguities,expedited the search and enabled this kind ofword studies to be performed on much largerscales.There is not yet a scholarly consensus on aprecise definition of ?wordhood?
in ClassicalChinese (Feng, 1998).
Inevitably, then,treatment of word segmentation varies widelyfrom corpus to corpus.
Some did not performword segmentation (Huang et al 2006); othersadopted their own principles (Wei et al 1997; Hu& McLaughlin 2007).
The lack ofstandardization not only hinders corpusinteroperability, but also makes it difficult forany single corpus to cater to users with differentassumptions about wordhood or differentresearch objectives.
What is regarded as oneword for a user may be two words in the eyes ofanother.
Consider two alternative analyses of thestring ??
huang he ?Yellow River?
in tworesearch tasks.
For retrieval of geographicalreferences in a text, it should ideally be tagged asone single proper noun, ??
/NR; to studyparallelisms in poetry, however, it is better to betagged as two separate words, ?
/JJ huang?yellow?
followed by ?/NN he ?river?, in ordernot to obscure the crucial POS sequence?adjective-noun?
that signals parallelism in acouplet.
To settle on any particular wordsegmentation criterion, then, is to risk omittinguseful information.We are not qualified to lay down anydefinitive criterion for word segmentation;rather, we advocate a theory-neutral approachthrough nested POS tags: characters are analyzedindividually whenever possible, but annotatedwith hierarchical tags to recognize possible wordboundaries.3 Previous WorkIn this section, we summarize previous practicesin Chinese word segmentation (section 3.1) andpart-of-speech tagging (section 3.2), thendescribe existing frameworks of multi-leveltagging (section 3.3).3.1 Word segmentationAs mentioned in Section 2, a common test forword segmentation is ?compositionality ofmeaning?.
While there are clear-cut cases likesha men, many cases fall in the grey area.Indeed, even native speakers can agree on wordboundaries in modern Chinese only about 76% ofthe time (Sproat et al, 1996).
It is not surprising,then, that a myriad of guidelines for wordsegmentation have been proposed for variouscorpora of Modern Chinese (Liu et al, 1994;Chinese Knowledge Information ProcessingGroup, 1996; Yu et al, 1998; Xia 2000; Sproatand Emerson, 2003).
In the rest of this section,we first review the approaches taken in threeclassical Chinese corpora, developed respectivelyat Jiaotong University (Huang et al, 2006),University of Sheffield (Hu et al, 2005) and theAcademia Sinica (Wei et al, 1997).
We thendescribe in more detail a modern Chinese corpus,the Penn Chinese Treebank (Xue et al, 2005).Corpus at Jiaotong University.
This treebankconsists of 1000 sentences of pre-Tsin classicalChinese.
No word segmentation was performed.On the one hand, this decision may be supportedby the fact that ?in general the syllable, writtenwith a single character, and the word correspondin Classical Chinese?
(Pulleyblank, 1995).
Onthe other hand, there are nonetheless a non-negligible number of strings for which it makeslittle sense to analyze their constituent characters.These include not only transliterations of foreignloanwords such as sha men, but also boundmorphemes 2  and reduplications 3  (Pulleyblank,1995).
The lack of segmentation in this corpusalso leads to the lack of word boundaries tosupport word retrieval.2 E.g., ?
ran, a suffix forming expressive adverbs such as??
cu ran ?abruptly?3 E.g., ?
xu ?wait?, which, via partial reduplication, derives??
xu yu ?a moment?76Academia Sinica Ancient Chinese Corpus.With more than 500K characters, this is thelargest word-segmented and POS-tagged corpusof classical Chinese.
In the annotation process, acharacter is presumed to be a word in its ownright; it is combined with other characters toform a word if they fall into one of the followingcategories: parallel and subordinatingcompounds; bisyllabic words; reduplications;and proper nouns.
Two of these categories,namely, bisyllabic words and reduplications, areretained in our word segmentation criteria (seesection 4.1).
Proper nouns, as well as paralleland subordinating compounds, however, aretreated differently (see section 4.2).Sheffield Corpus of Chinese.
This corpus hasmore than 109K characters of archaic Chineseand 147K characters of medieval Chinese.
Wordsegmentation was performed by hand.
Theircriteria for word segmentation, unfortunately, donot seem to be publicly available.The Penn Chinese Treebank.
This widelyused treebank of modern Chinese boasts anextensively documented word segmentationprocedure (Xia, 2000), which rests on sixprinciples.
We follow their principle thatcomplex internal structures should be segmentedwhen possible (see section 4.2).
We also retain asecond principle that a bound morpheme forms aword with its neighbor4, although morphemes inClassical Chinese are nearly always free forms(Feng, 1998).A third criterion is the number of syllables.Consider a noun phrase N1N2 where the firstnoun (N1) modifies the second (N2).
This nounphrase is considered one word if N2 consists ofone character, but two words if N2 has two ormore characters.
For example, the string ????
bei jing da xue ?Peking University?
issegmented as two words bei jing ?Peking?
and daxue ?university?, since ?university?
is made up oftwo characters; however, a similar string ??
?bei jing shi ?Beijing City?
is one word, since?city?
consists of just one character shi.
Giventhe dominance of monosyllabic words inclassical Chinese, a direct application of thisprinciple would have resulted in a large numberof multi-character words in our corpus.Further, there are three linguistic tests.
The?semantic compositionality?
test has alreadybeen outlined in section 2 and is not repeatedhere.
The ?insertion test?
asks whether another4 E.g., the morpheme ?
ben is bound to the character ?ren ?person?
in the word ??
ben ren ?oneself?morpheme can be inserted between twocharacters X1 and X2; if so, then X1X2 is unlikelyto be a word.
The ?XP-substitution test?
asks if amorpheme can be replaced by a phrase of thesame type; if not, then it is likely to be part of aword.
Performing these tests requires intuitionand familiarity with the language.
Since nohuman is a native speaker of classical Chinese,we found it difficult to objectively and reliablyapply these tests.
Instead, we strive toaccommodate different views of wordhood in ourcorpus.3.2 Part-of-Speech TaggingFollowing word segmentation, each word isassigned a part-of-speech (POS) tag.
Most POStagsets cover the major word categories, such asnouns, verbs, and adjectives; they differ in themore fine-grained distinctions within thesecategories.
For examples, verbs may be furthersubdivided into transitive and intransitive; nounsmay be further distinguished as common, properor temporal; and so on.
In general, a largertagset provides more precise information, butmay result in lower inter-annotator agreement,and hence reduced reliability.Classical Chinese does not have inflectionalmorphology; this makes POS tags even moreinformative, but also makes inter-annotatoragreement more challenging.
As with otherlanguages, the POS tagset is tailored to fit one?sresearch objective, as reflected in the wide-ranging levels of granularity in different corpora,from 21 tags in (Huang et al, 2006), 26 in thePeking University corpus (Yu et al, 2002), 46 inthe Academia Sinica Balanced Corpus (Chen etal., 1996), to 111 in the Sheffield Corpus ofChinese (Hu et al, 2005).
Our tagset is based onthat of the Penn Chinese Treebank, which liestowards the lower end of this spectrum, with 33tags.3.3 Multi-level TaggingIn principle, any text span may be annotated atan arbitrary number of levels using, for example,stand-off annotation.
In practice, most effort hasconcentrated on identifying named entities, suchas (Doddington et al, 2004).
While our corpusdoes specify word boundaries of multi-characterproper nouns, it tackles all other forms ofcompounds in general (section 4.2).Turning to the Chinese language in particular,we are by no means the first to point outinconsistencies in word segmentation and POS77tags among different corpora.
Annotators of thePenn Chinese Treebank, among others, alsorecognized this issue (Xia, 2000).
As a remedy,a two-level annotation method is used on anumber of grammatical constructions.
Supposeit is uncertain whether X1 and X2 should beconsidered two separate words or one word.Under this method, X1 and X2 are first taggedindividually (say, as pos1 and pos2), then taggedas a whole (say, as pos), and finally groupedtogether with a pair of brackets, resulting in thefinal form (X1/pos1 X2/pos2)/pos.
For instance,rather than simply tagging the string ???
zoushang lai ?walk up?
as one verb ??
?/VV, thethree-character word is further segmentedinternally as ?
zou ?walk?
and ??
shang lai?come up?, hence (?/VV ??/VV)/VV.
Thismethod makes the interpretation more flexible:those who consider zou shang lai to be one wordcan simply ignore the details inside the brackets;others who view zou and shang lai as stand-alones can discard the brackets and retain theirindividual analyses.This device is used in the Penn ChineseTreebank on only a narrow range ofconstructions to ensure compatibility with theChinese Knowledge Information ProcessingGroup (1996) and with (Liu et al, 1994).
Incontrast, it is generalized in our corpus as nestedtags of arbitrary depth, and used systematicallyand extensively to mark alternate wordboundaries.Tag Part-of-SpeechAD AdverbCD Cardinal numberDER Resultative de5DEV Manner de5FW Foreign wordIJ InterjectionJJ Other noun modifierLC LocalizerNN Other nounNR Proper nounNTPPNSPVVTemporal nounPrepositionPronounSentence-final particleOther verbTable 1: Part-of-speech tags of the Penn ChineseTreebank that are referenced in this paper.Please see (Xia, 2000) for the full list.4 Corpus DesignThis section describes our corpus at two levels,first the ?strings without internal structures?
(section 4.1), which may be combined to form?strings with internal structures?
(section 4.2) andmarked with nested brackets and tags.4.1 Strings without internal structuresThe lowest annotation layer marks theboundaries of what will be referred to as ?stringswithout internal structures?.
These are roughlyequivalent to ?words?
in existing Chinesecorpora.Segmentation criteria.
Following the practiceof the Academia Sinica Ancient Chinese Corpus,each character is initially presumed to be amonosyllabic word.
The annotator may thendecide that it forms a multi-character word withits neighbor(s) under one of the categories listedin Table 2.
This set of categories represents amore stringent segmentation criterion than thosein most existing corpora, such that the number ofmulti-character words is relatively small in ourtarget text (see section 6).Category ExampleForeignloanwords??
xiong nu ?the Xiongnupeople?e.g., ??/NR???
?TheXiongnus surrounded the cityof Jiuquan?Numbers ??
shi wu ?fifteen?, ?
?shi liu ?sixteen?e.g., ???
?/CD ??/CD?
?as a youth of 15 or 16years of age?Reduplications ??
qin qin ?quickly?e.g., ????
?/AD ?thechariots went quickly?Boundmorphemes??
you ran ?spontaneously?e.g., ???/AD??
?thesky spontaneously makesclouds?Table 2: Categories of multi-character words thatare considered ?strings without internalstructures?
(see Section 4.1).
Each category isillustrated with one example from our corpus.Part-of-speech tagging.
Similar to theprinciple adopted by the Penn Chinese Treebank,78POS tags are assigned not according to themeaning of the word, but to syntactic distribution(Xia, 2000), i.e.
the role the word plays in thesentence.
Compared to modern Chinese, it is amuch more frequent phenomenon in the classicallanguage for a word to function as differentparts-of-speech in different contexts.
Forexample, it is not uncommon for nouns to beused as verbs or adverbs, and verbs as adverbs(Pulleyblank, 1995).
Consider two nouns ?zhong ?bell?
and ?
yun ?cloud?.
The former isused as a verb ?to ring?
in the verse ????
?/VV ?where in the deep mountain [is it] ringing?
;the latter serves as an adverb ?in the manner ofclouds?
in the verse ???
/AD ?
?quicklydisperses like clouds?.
They are therefore taggedas a verb (VV) and an adverb (AD).
Likewise,when the verb ?
jin ?exhaust?
has an adverbialsense ?completely?, such as in ???/AD??
?saying farewell to you, I am utterly sad?, it istagged as such.We largely adopted the tagset of the PennChinese Treebank.
As the standard most familiarto the computational linguistics community, theirtagset has been used in annotating a large volumeof modern Chinese texts, offering us thepossibility of leveraging existing modernChinese annotations as training data as we seekautomatic methods to expand our corpus.
For themost part, the Penn tagset can be adopted forclassical Chinese in a straightforward manner.For example, the tag PN (pronoun) is used,instead of the modern Chinese pronouns ?
wo?I?
and ?
ni ?you?, for the classical equivalents?
wu ?I?
and ?
er ?you?.
Similarly, the tag SP(sentence-final particles) is applied, rather than tothe modern Chinese particles ?
ba or ?
a, totheir classical counterparts ?
er and ?
ye.
Inother cases, we have identified roughlyequivalent word classes in classical Chinese.
Toillustrate, although the classical language has noprepositions in the modern sense, the P(preposition) tag is retained for words known ascoverbs (Pulleyblank, 1995).
A few tags specificto modern Chinese are discarded; these includeDER, DEV, and FW (see Table 1).4.2 Strings with internal structuresSince our criteria for ?strings without internalstructures?
are intentionally strict, they disqualifymany multi-character strings that may fail the?semantic compositionality?
test and aretherefore commonly deemed words.
Theseinclude proper names with analyzable structures,as well as parallel or subordinating compounds,which are considered ?strings with internalstructures?
in our corpus, and are annotated withnested tags.Category ExampleParallel compoundsSimilarmeaning??
jun wang ?king?= ?
jun ?ruler?
+ ?
wang ?king?
(?/NN ?/NN)/NNRelatedmeaning??
gu rou ?kin?= ?
gu ?bone?
+ ?
rou ?flesh?
(?/NN ?/NN)/NNOppositemeaning??
shi fei ?rumors?= ?
shi ?right?
+ ?
fei ?wrong?
(?/JJ ?/JJ)/NNSubordinating compoundsVerb-object  ??
shi shi ?experience?= ?
shi ?understand?
+ ?
shi?affairs?
(?/VV ?/NN)/NNSubject-verb??
ri luo ?sunset?= ?
ri ?sun?
+ ?
luo ?descend?
(?/NN ?/VV)/NNAdjectivalmodifier??
shao nian ?youth?= ?
shao ?few?
+ ?
nian ?year(?/JJ ?/NN)/NNNounmodifier??
jia shi ?household food?= ?
jia ?house?
+ ?
shi ?food?
(?/NN ?/NN)/NNTable 3: Categories of multi-character words thatare considered ?strings with internal structures?
(see Section 4.2).
Each category is illustratedwith an example from our corpus.
Both theindividual characters and the compound theyform receive a POS tag.Segmentation criteria.
All parallel andsubordinating compounds are considered to be?strings with internal structures?.
A parallelcompound is a two-character noun, verb andadjective ?in which neither member dominatesthe other?
(Packard, 1998) and it refers to onemeaning despite having two characters.
Forexample, the noun compound ??
gu rou,formed from from ?
gu ?bone?
and ?
rou?flesh?, means simply ?kin?
rather than ?bone andflesh?.
In practice, in our corpus, two characters79are considered to be a parallel compound whenthey are of the same POS, and have similar,related, or opposite meaning, as shown in Table3.
The individual characters are ?strings withoutinternal structure?
and receive their own POStags, while the compound also receives its owntag.Subordinating compounds refer to those where?one member (the modifier) is subordinate to andmodifies the other (the head)?
(Packard, 1998).For example, the compound ??
shao nian ismade up of an adjective ?
shao ?few?
modifyinga noun ?
nian ?year?, but together has thespecialized meaning ?youth?.
In our corpus, twocharacters are considered to form a subordinatingcompound when they have the verb-object orsubject-verb relationship, or a modifier-headrelationship, including adjectival modifiers andnoun modifiers.Proper names can also have internal structures,whenever the grammatical structure of theirconstituent characters may be discerned.
Themost common such proper names in our corpusare geographical names, such as ??
huang he?Yellow River?, where the adjective huang?yellow?
modifies the noun he ?river?.
Anotherfrequent type is personal names with titles, suchas ???
shi xing gong ?Duke Shixing?, whereone noun modifies another.Our definition of ?strings with internalstructures?
is deliberately broad.
As a result,some of these strings would not be considered tobe a word or compound by all or even mostlinguists.
Many verb-object combinations, forexample, may well fail the ?semanticcompositionality?
test.
This is intentional: ratherthan searching for the perfect segmentationpolicy that suits everyone 5 , the nestedannotations allow the user to decide which levelof tags is suitable for the research objective athand.Part-of-speech tagging.
The nestedannotations of ?strings with internal structures?not only mark the possible word boundaries, butalso assign a POS tag at every level, since thattag is not always predictable from the tags of theconstituent characters.
Consider the verse inTable 4.
There are two possible segmentationsfor the string ??
wan lai.
As two separatewords, wan ?evening?
and lai ?come?
form aclause meaning ?as the evening comes?
; the5 The verb-object combination, for example, is ?among thehardest cases for the word definition?
(Xia, 2000).whole verse may be translated ?the weather turnschilly as the evening comes?.
Alternatively, theycan be taken as a two-character word, i.e., simplya temporal noun ?
?/NT wan lai ?evening?.
Inthis case, the proper translation would be ?theweather turns chilly at evening?.
Notice that thetag NT (temporal noun) cannot be predicted fromthe tags at the lower level, NN (noun) and VV(verb).Further, these nested tags indicate alternativesfor future syntactic analysis.
In dependencygrammar, for instance, the adjectival verb qiu?chilly?
would be the head of the verb lai, whichis the verb in the subordinate clause; in thesecond interpretation, however, it would be thehead of a temporal modifier, wan lai ?evening?.?
?
?
?
?tian qi wan lai qiu?weather?
?night?
?come?
?chilly?NN NN VV JJNTTable 4: POS annotations of an example sentencewith a string, wan lai ?evening?, that has internalstructure.
See Section 4.2 for two possibletranslations, and Table 1 for the meaning of thePOS tags.Verse 1?
?
?
?
?du shu lin guan men?only?
?tree?
?upon?
?pass?
?entrance?JJ NN VV NN NN?a lone tree watches the entrance of the pass?Verse 2?
?
?
?
?huang he Xiang tian wai?yellow?
?river?
?face?
?sky?
?outside?JJ NN VV NN LCNR?The Yellow River faces the outer sky?Table 5: POS annotations of a couplet, i.e., a pairof two verses, in a classical Chinese poem.
SeeTable 1 for the meaning of the POS tags.One significant benefit of nested annotation,especially in classical Chinese poetry, is thepreservation of the underlying parallelism.
Twoconsecutive verses, called a couplet, always havethe same number of characters.
Moreover, twocharacters at the same position in the two verses80often have the same or related POS.
Considerthe couplet in Table 5.
The first two characters ofeach verse, ??
du shu ?lone tree?
and ?
?huang he ?Yellow River?, respectively, areparallel; both are noun phrases formed by a nounmodified by the preceding adjective.In most existing corpora, huang he would besimply considered one word and assigned onetag, namely, a proper noun ??
/NR.
Thistreatment would, first of all, result in one versehaving four words and the other five, making itdifficult to analyze character correspondences.
Italso obscures the parallelism between the nounphrases du shu and huang he: both are JJ-NN, i.e.?adjective-noun?.
In contrast, our corpusannotates huang he as a string with internalstructures (?/JJ ?/NN)/NR, as shown in Table5.
Its outer tag (NR) preserves the meaning andboundary of the whole proper noun huang he,facilitating word searches; the inner tags supportautomatic identification of parallel structures.In all examples above of ?strings with internalstructures?, the nested annotations have only adepth of one.
In theory, the depth can bearbitrary, although in practice, it rarely exceedstwo.
An example is the string ???
xi liu ying?Little Willow military camp?.
At the coarsestlevel, the three characters may be considered toform one proper noun, referring to a camp at theancient Chinese capital.
The string obviouslyhas ?internal structures?, composed of ?
ying?military camp?
and its location, the place name??
xi liu ?Xiliu?.
Furthermore, this place namehas an evocative meaning, ?little willow?, madeup of the adjective xi ?little?
and the noun liu?willow?.
As shown in Table 6, this analysisresults in a three-level, nested annotation ((?/JJ?/NN)/NR ?/NN)/NR.Furthermore, these three characters are the lastcharacters in the second verse of a couplet.Table 6 also shows the annotations for thecorresponding characters in the first verse, ???
xin feng shi ?Xinfeng city?.
Taken together,the annotations reveal the perfect symmetry ofboth noun phrases at every level of analysis.5 DataAmong the various literary genres, poetry enjoysperhaps the most elevated status in the classicalChinese tradition.
The Tang Dynasty isconsidered the golden age of shi, one of the fivesubgenres of Chinese poetry.
The Complete ShiPoetry of the Tang (Peng, 1960), originallycompiled in 1705, consists of nearly 50,000poems by more than two thousand poets.Our method of word segmentation and POStagging has been applied to the complete worksby two Chinese poets in the 8th century CE,Wang Wei and Meng Haoran.
Wang isconsidered one of the three most prominent Tangpoets; Meng is often associated with Wang dueto the similarity of his poems in style andcontent.
Altogether, our corpus consists of about32,000 characters in 521 poems.Noun Phrase in Verse 2?
?
?xi liu ying?little?
?willow?
?camp?
?Little Willow camp?JJ NN NNNRNRNoun Phrase in Verse 1?
?
?xin feng shi?new?
?abundance?
?city?
?City of New Abundance?JJ NN NNNRNRTable 6: Part-of-speech annotations of the three-character strings ???
xi liu ying ?LittleWillow military camp?
and ???
xin feng shi?Xinfeng city?.
Both are ?strings with internalstructures?, with nested structures that perfectlymatch at all three levels.
They are the nounphrases that end both verses in the couplet ????
?, ????
?.6 EvaluationTwo research assistants, both of whom hold aBachelor?s degree in Chinese, have completedthe annotations.
To estimate inter-annotatoragreement, the two annotators independentlyperformed word segmentation and POS taggingon a 1,057-character portion of the poems ofWang.
We measured their agreement on wordsegmentation, POS tags for ?strings withoutinternal structures?, and those for ?strings withinternal structures?.Word segmentation.
This task refers todecisions on boundaries between ?strings withoutinternal structure?
(section 4.1).
Given the ratherstringent criteria, it is not surprising that only81about 6.5% of the words in our texts containmore than one character.
Among these, 75%consists of two characters.Disagreement rate on the presence of wordboundary between characters was only 1.7%.
Nocomparable figure has been reported for classicalChinese word segmentation, but this ratecompares favorably with past attempts formodern Chinese, e.g., an average of 76% inter-human agreement rate in (Sproat et al, 1996).This may be explained by the relatively smallnumber of types of strings (see Table 2) that areconsidered to be multi-character words in ourcorpus.POS tagging on strings without internalstructures.
We now consider the POS tagsassigned at the lowest level, i.e.
those assigned tostrings without internal structures.
Afterdiscarding characters with disputed wordsegmentation boundaries, the disagreement rateon POS tags was 4.9%.
Three main areas ofdisagreement emerged.One category is the confusion between verbsand adverbs, when the annotators do not agree onwhether a verb has an adverbial force and shouldtherefore be tagged as AD rather than VV.
Forexample, the word ?
yu ?bow?
normallyfunctions as a verb, but can also be usedadverbially when referring to an attitude,?respectfully?, which is implied by bowing.When used in collocation with the word ?
gu?visit?
in the verse ?????
fu jian yu san gu,it can therefore mean ?prostrated on the thresholdand respectfully (AD) paid visits three times?
or?prostrated on the threshold and bowed (VV) andpaid visits three time?.A second category is the confusion betweenmeasure word and a noun.
The noun ?
dan?bowl?
can collocate with the noun ?
shi ?food?.Taken together, dan shi can either mean ?a bowlof food?
where dan is a measure word (M), or itcan simply mean a specific kind of meal, inwhich case dan is a noun modifier (NN).
Bothinterpretations have been supported bycommentators.The third is the confusion between adjective(JJ) and noun (NN), when the word in questionmodifies a noun that immediately follows.
Forexample, for the noun phrase ??
ming fu?uniform with rank devices?, it is clear that thefirst character ?
ming ?profession?
modifies thesecond character ?
fu ?clothes?.
The annotatorsdid not agree, however, on whether ming is anoun modifier or an adjectival modifier.
In thePenn Chinese Treebank POS guidelines (Xia,2000), this question is resolved with thelinguistic test: if the word is JJ, then it cannot bethe head of a noun phrase.
In practice, this test isdifficult to apply for non-native speakers of alanguage.
The annotator would have to decidewhether he can compose a ?good?
classicalChinese that uses the word has an NP head.POS tagging on strings with internalstructures.
Thirdly, we turn our attention to POStags assigned at the higher levels of the nestedstructure.
Of the ?strings with internal structures?,about 73% consist of two characters; thoselonger than two characters are mostly propernames.We measured inter-human agreement for thenested bracketing by taking each annotator inturn as ?gold?, and calculated the precision andrecall of the other.
The average precision was83.5%; the average recall also worked out to83.5%.
A significant source of error wasdisagreement over whether several charactersform a proper name, and should therefore bebracketed and assigned the tag NR; these ofteninvolve knowledge of Chinese history andgeography.
In the remaining cases ofdiscrepancies, the vast majority are directconsequences of differences in POS tagging.Lastly, among the strings with internal structuresthat have received identical bracketing, there wasalmost complete agreement between theannotators regarding their POS tags, except in afew isolated cases.7 ConclusionWe have a described a novel method of wordsegmentation and POS tagging, tailored for theclassical Chinese language, and designed tosupport interoperability between corpora.
Thismethod has been applied on about 32,000characters, drawn from two well-known poetsfrom the 8th century CE.The corpus aspires to contribute to two areasof scholarly enquiry.
First, it is expected tofacilitate classical Chinese word studies byautomating word retrieval (e.g., (Lancaster,2010)), and will support investigations in otherareas of classical Chinese philology, such assemantic and metaphorical coherence (Zhu &Cui, 2010), by supplying syntactic evidence.Second, it is intended to serve as training data forautomatic POS taggers, to automate the analysisof the vast and growing digital collections ofclassical Chinese texts.82AcknowledgmentsWe thank Tin Ho Chan, Yin Hei Kong andCheuk Ho Wan for their assistance in annotatingthis corpus.
This work was supported by aStrategic Research Grant (#7002549) from CityUniversity of Hong Kong.ReferencesPi-Chuan Chang, Michel Galley, and Chris Manning,2008.
Optimizing Chinese Word Segmentation forMachine Translation Performance.
In Proc.
ACL3rd Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation.Keh-Jiann Chen, Chu-Ren Huang, Li-Ping Chang,and Hui-Li Hsu, 1996.
SINICA CORPUS: DesignMethodology for Balanced Corpora.
In Proc.Language, Information and Computation(PACLIC).Chinese Knowledge Information Processing Group,1996.
Shouwen Jiezi --- A study of Chinese WordBoundaries and Segmentation Standard forInformation Processing (in Chinese).
TechnicalReport, Academia Sinica, Taipei.George Doddington, Alexis Mitchell, MarkPrzybocki, Lance Ramshaw, Stephanie Strassel,and Ralph Weischedel, 2004.
The AutomaticContent Extraction (ACE) Program: Tasks, Data,and Evaluation.
In Proc.
LREC.Shengli Feng, 1998.
Prosodic Structure andCompound Words in Classical Chinese.
In NewApproaches to Chinese Word Formation, JeromePackard (ed.
), Mouton de Gruyter.W.
Nelson Francis and Henry Ku?era, 1982.Frequency Analysis of English Usage: Lexicon andGrammar.
Houghton Mifflin.Xiaolong Hu, N. Williamson and J. McLaughlin,2005.
Sheffield Corpus of Chinese for DiachronicLinguistic Study.
In Literary and LinguisticComputing 20(3):281---93.Xiaoling Hu and Jamie McLaughlin, 2007.
TheSheffield Corpus of Chinese.
Technical Report,University of Sheffield, UK.Liang Huang, Yinan Peng, Huan Wang and ZhengyuWu, 2006.
Statistical Part-of-Speech Tagging forClassical Chinese.
In Lecture Notes in ComputerScience 2448:296-311.Lewis Lancaster, 2010.
Pattern Recognition andAnalysis in the Chinese Buddhist Canon: A Studyof ?Original Enlightenment?.
In Asia Pacific World3rd series 60.Yuan Liu, Qiang Tan, and Kun Xu Shen, 1994.Segmentation Standard for Modern ChineseInformation Processing and AutomaticSegmentation Methodology.
Qinghua UniversityPress, Beijing, China.Mitchell P. Marcus, Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz, andBeatrice Santorini, 1993.
Building a LargeAnnotated Corpus of English: the Penn Treebank.In Computational Linguistics 19(2).Anthony McEnery and Zhonghua Xiao, 2004.
TheLancaster Corpus of Mandarin Chinese: a corpusfor monolingual and contrastive language study.
InProc.
LREC.Jerome Lee Packard, 1998.
New Approaches toChinese Word Formation: Morphology, Phonologyand the Lexicon in Modern and Ancient Chinese.In Trends in Linguistics Studies and andMonographs, Mouton de Gruyter.Dingqiu Peng, 1960.
Quan Tang Shi ?
?
?
.Zhonghua Shuju, Beijing.Edwin Pulleyblank, 1995.
Outline of ClassicalChinese Grammar.
UBC Press, Vancouver,Canada.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger, 2002.
MultiwordExpressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
InLecture Notes in Computer Science2276/2002:189?206.Richard Sproat, Chilin Shih, William Gale and NancyChang, 1996.
A Stochastic Finite-state Word-Segmentation Algorithm for Chinese.
InComputational Linguistics 22(3).Richard Sproat and Thomas Emerson, 2003.
TheFirst International Chinese Word SegmentationBakeoff.
In Proc.
2nd SIGHAN Workshop onChinese Language Processing.Pei-chuan Wei, P. M. Thompson, Cheng-hui Liu,Chu-Ren Huang, Chaofen Sun, 1997.
HistoricalCorpora for Synchronic and Diachronic LinguisticsStudies.
In Computational Linguistics and ChineseLanguage Processing 2(1):131?145.Fei Xia, 2000.
The Segmentation Guidelines for thePenn Chinese Treebank (3.0).
University ofPennsylvania, PA.Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu-Dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer, 2005.
The Penn Chinese Treebank: Phrasestructure annotation of a large corpus.
In NaturalLanguage Engineering 11:207-238.Shiwen Yu, Xuefeng Zhu, Hui Wang, and YunyunZhang, 1998.
The Grammatical Knowledgebase ofContemporary Chinese: A Complete Specification(in Chinese).
Tsinghua University Press, Beijing,China.Shiwen Yu, Huiming Duan, Xuefeng Zhu, and BinSun, 2002.
?????????????????
Beijing daxue xiandai hanyu yuliaoku jiben83jiagong guifan.
??????
Zhongwen XinxiXuebao 5:49--64.Chunshen Zhu and Ying Cui, 2010.
ImageryFocalization and the Evocation of a Poetic World.In Chinese Translators Journal.84
