Proceedings of the Twelfth Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Computational Morphology and Phonology (SIGMORPHON2012), pages 35?41,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA rule-based approach to unknown word recognition in ArabicLynne CahillNLTG, University of BrightonLewes Rd, BrightonBN2 4GJ, UKL.Cahill@brighton.ac.ukAbstractThis paper describes a small experiment totest a rule-based approach to unknown wordrecognition in Arabic.
The morphologicalcomplexity of Arabic presents its challengesto a variety of NLP applications, but it can al-so be viewed as an advantage, if we can tapinto the complex linguistic knowledge associ-ated with these complex forms.
In particular,the derived forms of verbs can be analysedand an educated guess at the likely meaning ofa derived form can be predicted, based on themeaning of a known form and the relationshipbetween the known form and the unknownone.
The performance of the approach is test-ed on the NEMLAR Written Arabic Corpus.1 IntroductionThe Semitic languages, especially Arabic, are lin-guistically interesting for a number of reasons, andare attracting more and more attention for bothlinguistic and socio-political reasons.
One of theaspects of Arabic that makes it particularly inter-esting to linguists, namely the morphological com-plexity, is at once both appealing and the source ofpotential practical problems.
It is appealing to lin-guists, for whom it offers interesting challenges intheir descriptive frameworks, but for builders ofNLP applications, it represents a significant chal-lenge.
In this paper, we are particularly interestedin the derivational aspects of the morphology,whereby verb stems are derived from triliteralroots in well defined formal ways, and with vary-ing degrees of regularity in the meanings of thosederived forms.Another aspect of the Arabic language that makesit both interesting and challenging is the fact that itis not actually a single language.
There are manyvarieties of Arabic, with rather different status.Classical Arabic (CA) is the language of the Ko-ran, and the historical ancestor of the other varie-ties.
Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) is the modernversion of CA and is, broadly speaking, the univer-sal (i.e.
not regional) standard variety of Arabic.Until recently, CA and MSA were the only varie-ties that were written ?
other, regional, varietieswere only spoken.
The situation is rapidly chang-ing, with electronic communication increasinglyinvolving written versions of the regional varieties.Even in traditional written forms, such as newsreports, the vocabulary used in different geograph-ical regions is different.
For example, Khoja(2001) found that the percentage of out of vocabu-lary items in news reports from Egypt and Qatarwas around double that found in Saudi news re-ports, Saudi Arabic being much closer to MSAthan the other two regional varieties.
Ways inwhich the present approach may assist in this prob-lem will be discussed later.The approach we describe here depends on a hier-archically organised lexicon, based on the DATRlexical representation language (Evans and Gazdar,1996).
The PolyLex lexical framework (Cahill andGazdar, 1999) was developed originally with lan-guages like English, German and Dutch in mind,but has been shown to lend itself to the descriptionof Arabic templatic morphology (Cahill, 2007,2010).
The inheritance of information by default inthis framework is fundamental to the approach wedescribe.The problem to which we seek a solution is not oneunique to Arabic.
Any NLP system which wants to35process naturally occurring text will always haveto deal to some degree with the problem of un-known or out of vocabulary (OOV) items.
Whetherthese items are neologisms, errors or names, theyneed to be handled in some way.
Solutions to thisparticular problem are unlikely to have a large sta-tistical impact on the success rates of the pro-cessing applications, but that does not mean thatthey are not worth finding.
While it is undoubtedlythe case that many applications will work perfectlywell with a word recognition rate of, say, 95%,supported by statistical approaches  which providesyntactic information, there are other applicationsfor which full semantic interpretation is desirable,if not necessary.
It is such applications that the cur-rent paper addresses.
We are only addressing a partof the problem, as this approach does not help rec-ognise names or errors.The particular approach described in this paper isbased on the observation that a native speaker whoencounters a word they have not seen before may,if that word is related to others that they do know,be able to make an educated guess at not only thesyntactic category, but also the meaning of thatword.
To a large degree, that guesswork involvesthe specific context that the word occurs in, butnative speakers will also have more abstract struc-tural knowledge about their language which allowsthem to make guesses about words on the basis oftheir internal structure.
For example, if an Englishspeaker knows the word ?confuse?
and hears theword ?confuser?, even though they have most like-ly never before come across the latter, they will beable to at least guess that it means ?someone/thingthat confuses?.
Of course, with derivation themeaning relationship is not always transparent.
Soa person encountering the word ?decider?
for thefirst time may be surprised to find that it does notmean ?one who decides?
but rather a decidingmatch/game etc..
Such issues and other limitationsof this approach will be discussed later.2 Previous approachesThere has been a lot of work on how to handleOOV items, largely based on statistical approach-es.
Some are language independent (see e.g.
Attiaet al(2010), Adler et al(2008)) while others focuson specific languages (see e.g.
Habash andRambow (2005, 2007) and Marsi et al(2005) onArabic and Adler and Elhadad (2006) on Hebrew,another Semitic language with similar morphologi-cal structure).
The work by Habash and Rambow,for example, employs a form of morphologicalexpansion to handle OOV items, but only makesuse of the inflectional morphology of Arabic, notthe derivational morphology as in the current ap-proach.Other approaches to morphological analysis in Ar-abic include methods to deal with OOV items.
Forexample, Beesley and Karttunen (2003), describe atwo-level approach which includes a general meth-od for guessing OOV words which could certainlyapply to some degree to Arabic, but it would not beable to take into account the linguistic (specificallysemantic) information which is at the heart of thepresent approach.3 PolyLex/PolyOrthThe PolyLex project (Cahill and Gazdar, 1999)developed multilingual lexicons of the morphologyand phonology of English, German and Dutch, im-plemented in the lexical representation languageDATR (Evans and Gazdar, 1996) which allows fordefault inheritance.
Therefore, aspects of theselanguages that were shared could be inherited bydefault by each language.In addition to the aspects of inter- and intra-language default inheritance, the other aspect ofthe PolyLex framework which contributes to theunknown word processing proposed here is the useof phonological structures, specifically syllables, todefine morphological structures and relationships.Thus, in PolyLex, the lexical entries consist ofspecifications of the phonological forms of the syl-lable constituents (onset, peak and coda).
Thesecan be determined by morpho-syntactic features.For example, the English word man has defaultvalues for the onset (/m/), peak (/?/) and coda(/n/), but a further value for the peak in the plural(/?/).
This is represented in DATR as1:<phn syl1 onset> == m<phn syl1 peak> == {<phn syl1 coda> == n<phn syl1 peak plur> == E.The PolyOrth project (Cahill et al 2006) furtherdeveloped the representation so that orthographic1 In the DATR code, the SAMPA machine readable alphabet(Wells, 1989) is used.36forms are derived by means of a combination ofphoneme-grapheme mappings and spelling rules.Both types of information include phonologicaland morphological determinants, so that, for ex-ample, the default mapping for any particular pho-neme will depend on both its phonological position(is it in the onset or coda?)
and on its morphologi-cal position (is it in a stem or an affix?).
Both typesof information are defined by means of Finite StateTransducers (FSTs) 2 .
This framework has beenimplemented and tested on English, German andDutch, and now extended to Arabic (Cahill, 2010).The Arabic lexicon allows for forms to be definedin Arabic script, Roman transliteration or phono-logical representation.4 Arabic verbal morphologyThe Arabic languages have around 280 millionspeakers.
They belong to the Semitic languagefamily, and share many linguistic features withother Semitic languages, such as Hebrew and Mal-tese.
Much work in both theoretical and computa-tional linguistics has focused on the so-calledtemplatic morphology of the Semitic languages.The key area of Arabic morphology addressed inthis paper is the verbal derivation.
Verbs in Arabicare typically based on a tri-literal root, consistingof three consonants.
Inflectional variation involvesinterdigitating these consonants with vowels whichindicate the tense, aspect and mood.
In addition,the three consonants can be differently arranged(doubled, swapped etc.)
to form distinct Forms (ormeasures, also known as binyanim 3 , especiallywhen applied to Hebrew).
These are essentiallyderivations and form distinct verbs with differentmeanings.
For example, the tri-literal root k-t-b hasthe core meaning ?write?.
The forms katabtu andaktubtu, represent the active perfective and activeimperfective first person singular forms of ?write?,namely, ?I wrote?
and ?I write?.
The second Formor measure verb k-tt-b also has the inflectional var-iations, but has the meaning ?cause to write?, thusthe two actual forms kattabtu and akttabtu have the2 The PolyOrth project was inspired by Herring (2006).
How-ever, while Herring uses one-stage FSTs, the PolyOrth projectused two levels of FST, including a separate treatment of?post-lexical?
spelling rules.3 We will use the term ?Form?, capitalised to avoid confusionwith the more usual use of ?form?.meanings ?I caused (someone) to write?
and ?Icause (someone) to write?
respectively.There are fifteen different Forms in CA, but fewerin the modern varieties.
In MSA there are ten thatare commonly found, although two more are foundrarely.
The regional varieties all make use of few-er.
While some of the Forms have clear transparentmeanings, others have far less clear or apparentlyrandom meaning relations.The following descriptions of the meanings of theten Forms is adapted from Scheindlin (2007):I.
The basic Form ?
all verbs have this form.May be transitive or intransitive.II.
Almost always transitive.
If a verb existsin both Form I and II then I will often beintransitive and II transitive (write (I) ?cause to write (II)).
If I is transitive then IImay be ditransitive.
II may also involve anintensifying of the meaning on I, e.g.
kill(I) ?
massacre (II).III.
May involve reciprocity, e.g.
follow (I) ?alternate (III).IV.
Like II, mostly transitive, and oftenmatched with intransitive in I.V.
Often involves a reflexive element, e.g.know (I) ?
teach (II) ?
learn (V).VI.
Like III, often involves reciprocity, e.g.fight (I) ?
fight each other (VI).VII.
Mostly reflexive, resultative or passive.Roots that are transitive in I are intransi-tive in VII.
E.g.
break (I) ?
be broken(VII).VIII.
Often reflexive for verbs that are transitivein I, e.g.
divide (I) ?
part (VIII).IX.
Very restricted in application, only apply-ing to verbs indicating colours and de-fects, e.g.
turn yellow.X.
Often associated with asking for some-thing associated with the Form I verb, e.g.pardon (I) ?
apologise (ask for pardon)(X).As is clear from these descriptions, the meaningrelationships are not fully predictable, but they cangive some hints as to the likely meaning of an un-known verb.
As the framework relies on defaultinheritance, the assumption that any definitionsmay be overridden by more specific informationmeans that even very approximate definitions arestill valuable.375 Arabic in syllable-based morphologyA small sample lexicon of Arabic in the PolyLexframework is presented in Cahill (2007).
Whatmakes this account different from most accounts ofthe morphology of the Semitic languages is that itrequires no special apparatus to allow for the defi-nition of so-called ?templatic?
morphology, butmakes use of the same kind of equations as arerequired for ablaut and consonant devoicing, forexample, that are found in English, German andDutch.5.1 The default, Form I rootThe main part of the account addresses a singleverb root, namely k.t.b, ?write?, and generates allpossible Form stems for perfective, imperfectiveand participle, active and passive.
The approach isbased on defining the leaves of syllable-structuretrees, with the consonants of the triliteral stemsoccupying the onset and coda positions, and thevowels (syllable peaks) being defined according tothe morphosyntactic specification, as in the exam-ple of man above.
To illustrate this, the figure be-low shows the default structure for a triliteral root,with no vowels specified.
The default structure is adisyllabic root, with the first consonant occupyingthe onset of the first syllable, the second consonantoccupying the onset of the second syllable and thethird consonant occupying the coda of the secondsyllable4.Figure 1: the structure of /katab/4 The syllable position is indicated by simple numbering.
Syl-lables can be counted from either right of left.
For languageswhich largely use suffixation, it makes more sense to countfrom the right, as for Arabic here.5.2 The other Form stemsAs described in Cahill (2007), the remaining nineforms have their default structure defined in simi-lar terms.
Figure 2 depicts the inheritance of formsfrom each other.
This inheritance is for the syllablestructure definitions, so the Form II structure is thesame as the Form I structure except that the firstcoda has the value of the second root consonant,the same as the onset of the second syllable.
Thedefinitions are all incremental, so that each Formspecification only supplies one or two pieces ofinformation.5.3 MeaningsThe original lexicon was designed to demonstratethat the complex relationships between phonologi-cal, morphological and orthographic forms in Ara-bic could be captured in the PolyLex/PolyOrtharchitecture.
There was no semantic information inthe lexicons at all.
For the present experiment, wehave added very basic semantic information for the100 verbs we have included.
Most of these areForm I verbs, but there are some Form II, Form IVand Form V verbs.
Where possible, we have repre-sented the meanings of the verbs of Forms otherthan I in terms that can be generalised.
For exam-ple, the verb apologise has the meaning expressedas ASK FOR PARDON5.The lexical hierarchy, in addition, defines a defaultmeaning expression for each Form.
For Form VIII,for example, this is:<meaning> == ask for ?<formI meaning>?which says that the meaning is simply the string?ask for?
followed by the meaning for Form I forthe root6.5.4 The full lexicon5 For this small experiment, the exact representation of themeanings is not important.
It is assumed that in a genuineapplication will have its representations which would be in-cluded in the lexicon, or for which a mapping can be defined.6 The quotes around the path <form1 meaning> indicate that itis to be evaluated at the original query node, i.e.
the root nodein DATR.rootsyl2 syl1tbk38As stated above, the lexicon we are working fromhas only 100 verbs.
There are no verb roots forwhich we have more than one Form.
This is a verysmall number, but for each verb in the lexiconthere are a theoretically possible further nine verbswhich may be derived from the same root.
Thelexicon will recognise any theoretically possibleverb from the roots it knows about, although itdoes not have semantic information explicitly pro-vided for a large proportion of these verbs.6 Using the lexicon for word recognitionThe highly structured, hierarchical lexicons are notdesigned to be used as they are within NLP appli-cations.
The information in them is cached in alookup table which can be used for either genera-tion or comprehension, with entries which looklike this:???
k-t-bkatab stem p,ak-t-bI write???
?k-tt-bkattab stem p,pk-t-bII [causetowrite]The first column is the form in Arabic script, thesecond is the transliteration, the third is one possi-ble full (vowelised) form, the fourth and fifth givethe morphological analysis, the sixth is the triliteralroot it is derived from, the seventh is the Form andthe last is the translation.
The first row, which hasthe Form I entry, has a translation which was pro-vided explicitly in the lexicon but the second getsits meaning by default.
This is indicated by thesquare brackets.
In use in an application, thesemeanings would be used more cautiously, possiblyin conjunction with other methods, especially mak-ing use of context.The lookup table often provides more than onepossible entry for a single form, especially whenthe form is unvowelised.6.1 TestingIn order to test the approach, we tested the recogni-tion of all verbs in the NEMLAR written corpus(Attiyya et al, 2005).
The corpus provides versionswith POS tagging, which enabled us to extracteach verb.
There were a total of just over 40,000forms tagged as verbs, approximately 11,000 ofthem unique forms.
Initial tests only took thoseforms which were tagged as having neither prefixnor suffix, a total of 1274 verb forms7.
These in-cluded forms which were inflectionally distinct,and once these forms were collapsed, the totalnumber of verb forms is 577.
Of these, 32 occurredin our initial lexicon of 100 verbs.These tests showed that of the remaining 545 un-known verbs, 84 could apparently be analysed asderived forms of one of our existing verbs.
This7 The decision to use only those forms without prefix of suffixwas simply made to make the testing process simpler and toensure that the results were not skewed by the presence ofconsonants in prefixes or suffixes.Figure 2: The inheritance of FormsVerb/Form IForm II Form III Form IV Form VForm VIForm VII Form VIIIForm IX Form X39was determined by checking the main entries in anonline Arabic dictionary and comparing the mean-ings given to those generated by the lexicon.
Thiswas a very promising figure, given the very smallsize of the lexicon.8In the next testing phase we looked more closely atthese forms.
There are two ways in which the anal-yses may not be appropriate.
The analysis mightnot be an appropriate (or at least not the most ap-propriate) one.
This is not a major problem sincewe are dealing with a situation in which we fre-quently have multiple possible analyses for a word,so generating a number of possibilities from whichan application must choose is exactly what is re-quired.
The second issue is the question of whetherthe meanings generated are useful.
In order tocheck this we manually compared the generatedmeanings against the actual meanings for a sampleof the verbs in question.
We found that just overhalf of the verbs we checked had meanings whichwere at least clearly connected to the generatedmeaning.
For example, the stem  ????
(teach) isclearly related to the stem ???
(know), and turns outto be the second Form (?cause to X?)
of the rootfor which know is the first Form.6.2 Analysis of resultsThe verbs for which meanings were generated fitinto three broad categories.
First there are verbs forwhich the derived Form appears in dictionarieswith the same meaning as that for Form I, possiblyas one of its meanings.
Thus, for example, theForm VIII verb ktatab had the meaning ?wrote?,the same as the Form I katab.
There were 23 verbsin our set of 84 for which this was the case.The second category consists of verbs for whichthe meaning is related in the way suggested by ourearlier analysis.
22 of the verbs came into this cat-egory.9Finally, the last category consists of verbs whosemeaning is not related in the way suggested.
Thisis the most problematic class, and unfortunately thelargest in the small test set we are working with.8 There were some difficulties with transliteration which meanthat these figures may not be fully accurate.9 This is clearly a case of subjective judgement, and from anon-native speaker these judgements may not be accurate.However, in most, indeed nearly all, of these cases,the generated meaning was not wildly differentfrom that in the dictionary.
Closer inspection sug-gests that simply improving the meaning relations,and allowing more than one additional possiblelexicon entry for some Forms would improve theperformance significantly.7 Discussion and conclusionThis paper has described a small experiment to testa novel rule-based approach to unknown wordrecognition in Arabic.
Although testing is at anearly stage, the initial results are promising.The experiment described is intended to address asmall part of the overall problem of unknownwords.
In some respects it can be viewed as moreof a technique for extending an existing lexiconthan for dealing with OOV items at runtime.
How-ever, it would be possible to enable an applicationto have access to the default lexical information atruntime, to allow this.Another area in which the above technique mayprove particularly useful is in the processing ofregional varieties of Arabic.
As stated above,Khoja (2001) found that even texts apparentlywritten in MSA were twice as likely to have un-known words in texts from Egypt and Qatar thanfrom Saudi Arabia.
This suggests some variation inthe vocabulary, most likely involving ?leakage?
ofvocabulary items from Egyptian and Qatari Arabicinto the MSA used by those speakers.
As the mor-phological patterns of derived verbs are different inthe different regional varieties, taking these pat-terns into account will provide further possible in-terpretations.
The PolyLex structure allows thedefinition of similarities and differences betweenthe lexicons of languages and dialects that areclosely related.7.1 Limitations and future workThe experiment described here is a very smallscale one, and the lexicon is extremely small.
Therepresentation of meaning is also extremely simpli-fied.
It is possible that the approach describedsimply could not be scaled up to a size useful foran application.
However, there is a range of ways40of representing meaning, including linking to anexternal ontology, which could also be implement-ed in the lexicon described.The next phase of work is to fully evaluate the re-sults of the initial tests, followed by further moreextensive testing.
It is envisaged that an iteratedcycle of testing and extension of the lexicon couldlead to a lexicon large enough to be useful and ro-bust enough to handle significant (if still small)numbers of OOV items.Subsequently, and further down the line, develop-ment of a lexicon (or lexicons) for the vocabularyof regional varieties, linked to the MSA lexicon inthe PolyLex framework will help to exploit thesimilarities.
That is, the lexicon for, say, EgyptianArabic assumes that, by default, words are thesame as in MSA, with only those words (mor-phemes, phonemes etc.)
which differ requiringspecification.AcknowledgementsThe work described here was partly supported bythe ESRC (Economic and Social Research Coun-cil, UK) as part of the project: RES-000-22-3868Orthography, phonology and morphology in theArabic lexicon.
We are grateful to the anonymousreviewers for their helpful comments.ReferencesAdler, Meni and Michael Elhadad.
() An UnsupervisedMorpheme-Based HMM for Hebrew Morphologi-cal Disambiguation.
COLING-ACL 2006, pp.
665-672.Adler, Meni, Yoav Goldberg, David Gabay and MichaelElhadad.
(2008) Unsupervised Lexicon-Based Re-solution of Unknown Words for Full Morphologi-cal Analysis.
ACL-08 : HLT, pp.
728-36.Atiyya, Muhammed, Khalid Choukri and Mustafa Ya-seen.
(2005) The NMELAR Written Corpus ELDA.Attia, Mohammed, Jennifer Foster, Deirdre Hogan, Jo-seph Le Roux, Lamia Tounsi and Josef van Gena-bith.
(2010) Handling Unknown Words inStatistical Latent-Variable Parsing Models forArabic, English and French.
NAACL HLTWorkshop on Statistical Parsing of Morphologi-cally Rich Languages.
pp.
67-75.Beesley, Kenneth and Lauri Karttunen.
(2003) FiniteState Morphology Chicago : CSLI.Cahill, Lynne.
(2010) A Syllable-based Approach toverbal Morphology in Arabic.
Workshop on Semi-tic Languages,  LREC2010, Malta, 2010.Cahill, Lynne.
(2007) A Syllable-based Account ofArabic Morphology.
In Abdelhadi Soudi, Antalvan der Bosch and G?nther Neumann (eds.)
Ara-bic Computational Morphology Dordrecht : Sprin-ger.
pp.
45-66.Cahill, Lynne, Jon Herring and Carole Tiberius,?PolyOrth: Adding Orthography to a PhonologicalInheritance Lexicon?,  Fifth International Work-shop on Writing Systems, Nijmegen, Netherlands,October 2006 (available athttp://www.nltg.brighton.ac.uk/projects/polyorth).Cahill, Lynne and Gazdar, Gerald.
(1999) The PolyLexarchitecture : multilingual lexicons for related lan-guages.
Traitement Automatique des Langues,40 :2, pp.
5-23.Evans, Roger and Gazdar, Gerald.
(1996) DATR : alanguage for lexical knowledge representation.Computational Linguistics, 22 :2, pp.
167-216.Habash, Nizar and Owen Rambow.
(2007) ArabicDiacritization through Full Morphological Tag-ging.
NAACL HLT 2007pp.
53-56.Habash, Nizar and Owen Rambow.
(2005) Arabic To-kenization, Part-of-Speech Tagging and Morpho-logical Disambiguation in One Fell Swoop.
ACL2005, pp.
573-80.Herring, J.
(2006) Orthography and the lexicon, PhDdissertation, University of Brighton.Khoja, Shereen.
(2001) APT: Arabic Part-of-speechTagger.
Proceedings of the Student Workshop atthe Second Meeting of the North American Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics (NAACL2001).Marsi, Erwin, Antal van den Bosch and AbdelhadiSoudi.
(2005) Memory-based morphological anal-ysis, generation and part-of-speech tagging of Ar-abic.
ACL Workshop on ComputationalApproaches to Semitic Languages.
pp.
1-8.Scheindlin, Raymond P. (2007) 501 Arabic verbsHaupage: Barron.Wells, John.
(1989) Computer-coded phonemic notationof individual languages of the European Community.Journal of the International Phonetic Association,19 :1, pp.
31-54.41
