Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 72?76,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsATLAS - Human Language Technologies integrated within aMultilingual Web Content Management SystemSvetla KoevaDepartment of Computational Linguistics, Institute for BulgarianBulgarian Academy of Sciencessvetla@dcl.bas.bgAbstractThe main purpose of the project ATLAS(Applied Technology for Language-AidedCMS) is to facilitate multilingual web contentdevelopment and management.
Its maininnovation is the integration of languagetechnologies wi th in a web contentmanagement sys tem.
The languageprocessing framework, integrated with webcontent management,  provides automaticannotation of important words, phrases andnamed entities, suggestions for categorisationo f documen t s , au toma t i c summarygeneration, and machine translation ofsummaries of documents.
A machinetranslation approach, as well as methods forobtaining and constructing training data formachine translation are under development.1 IntroductionThe main purpose of the European projectATLAS (Applied Technology for Language-Aided CMS)1is to facilitate multilingual webcontent development and management.
Its maininnovation is the integration of languagetechnologies within a web content managementsystem.
ATLAS combines a language processingframework with a content  managementcomponent  (i-Publisher)2used for creating,running and managing dynamic content-drivenwebsites.
Examples of such sites are i-Librarian,3a free online library of digital documents thatmay be personalised according to the user?sneeds and requirements; and EUDocLib,4a freeonline library of European legal documents.
Thelanguage processing framework of thesewebsites provides automatic annotation ofimportant  words, phrases and named entities,suggestions for categorisation of documents,automatic summary generation, and machinetranslation of a summary of a document(Karagyozov et al 2012).
Six European Unionlanguages ?
Bulgarian, German, Greek, English,Polish, and Romanian are supported.2.
Brief overview of existing contentmanagement systemsThe most frequently used open-sourcemultilingual web content  management  systems(WordPress, Joomla, Joom!Fish, TYPO3,Drupal)5offer a relatively low level ofmultilingual content management.
None of theplatforms supports multiple languages in their1http://www.atlasproject.eu2http://i-publisher.atlasproject.eu/3http://www.i-librarian.eu/4http://eudoclib.atlasproject.eu/5http://wordpress.com/, http://www.joomla.org/, http://www.joomfish.net/, http://typo3.org/, http://drupal.org/72native states.
Instead, they rely on plugins tohandle this: WordPress uses the WordPressMultilingual Plugin, Drupal needs a modulecalled Locale, and Joomla needs a module calledJoomfish.
There are modules, like those providedby ICanLocalize6, than can facilitate selectionwithin Drupal and WordPress of the material tobe translated, but  the actual translation is done byhuman translators.
To the best  of our knowledge,none of the existing content  managementsystems exploits language technologies toprovide more sophisticated text contentmanagement.
This is proved by the datapublished at  the CMS Critic7- an online mediaproviding news, reviews, articles and interviewsfor about 60 content  management  systems.Taking into account that  the online data are inmany cases multilingual and documents stored ina content management  system are usually relatedby means of sharing similar topics or domains itcan be claimed that  the web content managementsystems need the power of modern languagetechnologies.
In comparison ATLAS offers theadvantage of integration of natural languageprocessing in the multi l ingual contentmanagement.3 Selection of ?core?
wordsATLAS suggests ?core?
words (plus phrases andnamed entities), i.e., the most  essential wordsthat capture the main topic of a given document.Currently the selection of core words is carriedout in a two-stage process: identification ofcandidates and ranking.
For the identificationstage a language processing chain is applied thatconsists of the following tools: sentence splitter,tokenizer, PoS tagger, lemmatizer, word sensedisambiguator (assigns a unique sense to aword), NP extractor (marks up noun phrases inthe text) and NE extractor (marks up namedentities in the text).
After this stage, the targetcore words are ranked according to theirimportance scores, which are estimated byfeatures such as frequency, linguistic correlation,phrase length, etc., combined by heuristics toobtain the final ranking strategy.
The core wordsare displayed in several groups: named entities(locations, names, etc.)
- both single words andphrases, and noun phrases - terms, multiwordexpressions or noun phrases with a hightfrequency.
For example among the ?core?
nounphrases extracted from Cocoa FundamentalsGuide8are the following phrases: Object-Oriented Programming, Objective-C language,Cocoa application, Cocoa program, etc.
Eventhough the language processing chains that  areapplied differ from language to language, thisapproach offers a common ground for languageprocessing and its results can be comfortablyused by advanced language components such asdocument c lass i f i ca t ion , c lause-basedsummarisation, and statistical machinetranslation.
Content  navigation (such as lists ofsimilar documents) based on interlinked textannotations is also provided.4 Automatic categorisationAutomatic document  classification (assigning adocument to one or more domains or categoriesfrom a set of labels) is of great importance to amodern multilingual web content managementsystem.
ATLAS provides automatic multi-labelcategorisation of documents into one or morepredefined categories.
This starts with a trainingphase, in which a statistical model is createdbased on a set of features from already labelleddocuments.
There are currently four classifiers,two of which exploit  the Na?ve Bayesianalgorithm, the two others Relative entropy andClass-featured centroid, respectively.
In theclassifying phase, the model is used to assign oneor more labels to unlabelled documents.
Theresults from the different classifiers arecombined and the final classification result  isdetermined by a majority voting system.
Theautomatic text  categorisation is at  the presentstage able to handle documents in Bulgarian andEnglish.
For example, the Cocoa FundamentalsGuide is automatically categorised under thedomain Computer science, and unter the TopicsComputer science, Graphics and Design,Database Management, and Programming.5 Text summarizationTwo different  strategies for obtaining summariesare used in ATLAS.
The strategy for short  texts isbased on identification of the discourse structureand produces a summary that  can be classified asa type of excerpt, thus it is possible to indicatethe length of the summary as a percentage of theoriginal text.
Summarisation of short texts inATLAS draws on the whole language processingchain and also adds a couple of other modules to6http://www.icanlocalize.com/7http://www.cmscritic.com/8https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CocoaFundamentals/CocoaFundamentals.pdf73the chain: clause splitting, anaphora resolution,discourse parsing and summarization.
Themethod used for short texts (Cristea et al 2005)exploits cohesion and coherence properties of thetext to build intermediate structures.
Currently,the short  text summarisation modules areimplemented for English and Romanian.The strategy for long texts assembles a templatesummary based on extraction of relevantinformation specific to different genres and is forthe time being still under development.6Machine translationFor i-Publisher, machine translation serves as atranslation aid for publishing multilingualcontent.
The ability to display content in multiplelanguages is combined with a computer-aidedlocalization of the templates.
Text  for alocalization is submitted to the translation engineand the output is subject to human post-processing.For i-Librarian and EuDocLib, and for anywebsite developed with i-Publisher, the machinetranslation engine provides a translation of thedocument summary provided earlier in the chain.This will give the user rough clues aboutdocuments in different languages, and a basis todecide whether they are to be stored.6.1 Obtaining training corporaThe development  of a translation engine isparticularly challenging, as the translation shouldbe able to be used in different domains andwithin different text  genres.
In addition, most ofthe language pairs in question belong to the lessresourced group for which bilingual training andtest material is available in limited amounts(Gavrila and Vertan 2011).
For instance, parallelcorpora incorporating Bulgarian are relativelysmall and usually domain-specific, with mostlyliterary or administrative texts.
ATLAS?administrative subcorpus contains texts from EUlegislation created between the years 1958 and2011, available as an online repositories, i.e., theEuroParl Corpus (Koehn 2005); the JRC-Acquis(Steinberger 2006), and includes all theaccessible texts in the target languages.
Thescientific / administrative subcorpus consists ofadministrative texts published by the EuropeanMedicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) in theyears between 1978 and 2009.
It  is part of theOPUS collection (Tiedemann 2009).
The massmedia subcorpus contains news reports as well assome other journalistic texts published in nineBalkan languages and English from October2002 until the present day on the East  Europeinformation website9.
The fiction subcorpus wascompiled manually by harvesting freely availabletexts on the Internet, scanning, and fromdonations by authors.
So far, it consists of textsin Bulgarian, English, and German.
Thesubcorpus of informal texts consists of subtitlesof films: feature films, documentaries, andanimations, all part of the OPUS collection(Tiedemann 2009).
Automatic collection ofcorpora is preferred to manual, and for thatpurpose a set  of simple crawlers was designed.They are modified for each source to ensureefficiency.
Figure 1 presents some statistical datafor the Bulgarian-English parallel corpus, thelargest in the collection (the vertical axis showsthe number of words, while the horizontal - thedomain distribution).Figure 1 Bulgarian-English parallel corpusTwo basic methods are used to enlarge theexisting parallel corpora.
In the first, theavailable training data for statistical machinetranslation are extended by means of generatingparaphrases (e.g.
compound nouns areparaphrased into (semi-) equivalent  phrases witha preposition, and vice versa).
The paraphrasescan be classified as morphological (where thedifference is between the forms of the phraseconstituents), lexical (based on semanticsimilarity between constituents) and phrasal(based on syntactic transformations).
Paraphrasegeneration methods that operate both on a singlemonolingual corpus or on parallel corpus arediscussed by Madnani and Dorr 2010.
Forinstance, one of the methods for paraphrasegeneration from a monolingual corpus considersas paraphrases all words and phrases that aredistributionally similar, that is, occurring with the010000000200000003000000040000000Administrative Science Massmedia Fiction InformalBulgarian English9http://setimes.com/74same sets of anchors (Pa?ca and Dienes 2005).An approach using phrase-based alignmenttechniques shows how paraphrases in onelanguage can be identified using a phrase in asecond language as a pivot (Bannard andCallison-Burch 2005).The second method performs automaticgeneration of parallel corpora (Xu and Sun 2011)by means of automatic translation.
This methodcan be applied for language pairs for whichparallel corpora are still limited in quantity.
If,say, a Bulgarian-English parallel corpus exists, aBulgarian Polish parallel corpus can beconstructed by means of automatic translationfrom English to Polish.
To control the quality ofthe automatically generated data, multipletranslation systems can be used, and thecompatibility of the translated outputs can becalculated.
Thus, both methods can fill gaps inthe available data, the first  method by extendingexisting parallel corpora and the second byautomatic construction of parallel corpora.6.2 Accepted approachGiven that the ATLAS platform deals withlanguages from different  language families andthat the engine should support  several domains,an interlingua approach is not suitable.
Buildingtransfer systems for all language pairs is alsotime-consuming and does not make the platformeasily portable to other languages.
When allrequirements and limitations are taken intoaccount, corpus-based machine translationparadigms are the best option that can beconsidered (Karagyozov et al 2012).
For theATLAS translation engine it  was decided to use ahybrid architecture combining example-basedand statistical machine translation at  the word-based level (i.e., no syntactic trees will be used).The ATLAS translation engine interacts withother modules of the system.
For example, thedocument categorisation module assigns one ormore domains to each document, and if nospecific trained translation model for therespective domain exists, the user gets a warningthat the translation may be inadequate withrespect to lexical coverage.
Each input item tothe translation engine is then processed by theexample-based machine translation component.If the input as a whole or important chunks of itare found in the translation database, thetranslation equivalents are used and, if necessary,combined (Gavrila 2011).
In all other cases theinput  is sent further to the Moses-based machinetranslation component which uses a part-of-speech and domain-factored model (Niehues andWaibel 2010).Like the architecture of the categorizationengine, the translation system in ATLAS is ableto accommodate and use different  third-partytranslations engines, such as those of Google,Bing, and Yahoo.The ATLAS machine translation module is stillunder development.
Some experiments intranslation between English, German, andRomanian have been performed in order todefine: what  parameter settings are suitable forlanguage pairs with a rich morphology, whattuning steps lead to significant  improvements,wheather the PoS-factored models improvesignificantly the quality of results (Karagyozovet al 2012).7?
ConclusionTo conclude, ATLAS enables users to create,organise and publish various types ofmultilingual documents.
ATLAS reduces themanual work by using automatic classification ofdocuments and helps users to decide about adocument by providing summaries of documentsand their translations.
Moreover, the user caneasily find the most  relevant texts within largedocument collections and get  a brief overview ofthe i r content .
A modern web contentmanagement systems should help users come togrips with the growing complexity of today?smultilingual websites.
ATLAS answers to thistask.AcknowledgmentsATLAS (Applied Technology for Language-Aided CMS) is a European project  funded underthe CIP ICT  Policy Support  Programme, GrantAgreement 250467.ReferencesBannard and Callison-Burch 2005: Bannard, Colinand Chris Callison-Burch.
Paraphrasing withbilingual parallel corpora.
In Proceedings ofACL, pages 597?604, Ann Arbor, MI.Cristea et al 2005: Cristea,  D.,  Postolache, O., Pistol,I.
(2005).
Summarisation through DiscourseStructure.
Computational Linguistics andIntelligent Text Processing, 6th InternationalConference CICLing 2005 (pp.
632-644).
MexicoCity, Mexico: Springer LNSC, vol.
3406.Gavrila 2011: Gavrila, M. Constrained recombinationin an example-based machine translation system.In M. L. Vincent Vondeghinste (Ed.
), 15thAnnual Conference of the European Associationfor Machine Translation, Leuven, Belgium, pp.193-200.75Gavrila and Vertan 2011: Gavrila Monica andCristina Vertan.
Training data in statisticalmachine translation ?
the more, the better?
InProceedings of the RANLP-2011 Conference,September 2011, Hissar, Bulgaria, pp.
551-556.Karagyozov et al 2012: Diman Karagiozov, AneliaBelogay, Dan Cristea, Svetla Koeva,  MaciejOgrodniczuk, Polivios Raxis, Emil Stoyanov andCristina Vertan.
i-Librarian ?
Free online libraryfor European citizens, In Infotheca, Belgrade, toappear.Koehn 2005: Koehn, Ph.
Europarl: A Parallel Corpusfor Statistical Machine Translation, Proceedingsof MT Summit, pp.
79?86.Madnani and Dorr 2010: Nitin Madnani and BonnieDorr.
2010.
Generat- ing phrasal and sententialparaphrases: A survey of data-driven methods.Computational Linguistics, 36(3), pp.
341?388.Niehues and Waibel 2010: Niehues Jan and AlexWaibel,  Domain Adaptation in StatisticalMachine Translation using Factored TranslationModels, Proceedings of EAMT 2010 Saint-Raphael.Pa?ca and Dienes 2005: Pa?ca, Marius and P?terDienes.
2005.
Aligning needles in a haystack:Paraphrase acquisition across the Web.
InProceedings of IJCNLP, Jeju Island, pp.
119-130.Steinberger et al 2006: Steinberger, R., Pouliquen,B., Widiger, A., Ignat,  C., Erjavec, T., Tufi?,  D.,Varga, D. (2006).
The JRC-Acquis: Amultilingual aligned parallel corpus with 20+languages.
Proceedings of LREC 2006.
Genoa,Italy.Tiedemann 2009: Tiedemann, J.
News from OPUS -A Collection of Multilingual Parallel Corporawith Tools and Interfaces.
In: N. Nicolov, K.Bontcheva, G. Angelova, R. Mitkov (eds.
)Recent Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing (vol .
V) , John Benjamins,Amsterdam/Philadelphia, pp.
237?248.Xu and Sun 2011: Jia Xu and Weiwei Sun.Genera t ing v i r tua l para l le l corpus : Acompatibility centric method.
In Proceedings ofthe Machine Translation Summit XIII.76
