NAACL-HLT 2012 Workshop on Future directions and needs in the Spoken Dialog Community: Tools and Data, pages 3?4,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDirections for Research on Spoken Dialog Systems, Broadly Defined?Nigel G. WardUniversity of Texas at El PasoEl Paso, Texas 79968, USAnigelward@acm.orgAbstractTo increase impact and accelerate progress,the spoken dialog systems research commu-nity should work on four shareable things thatwill also engage and support sister fields ofscience and engineering.1 To Reach Out to the VoiceXMLCommunity, a Commercial-DialogsCorpusAlthough many people are frustrated with the com-mercial dialog systems they use every day, spokendialog systems research has been only sporadicallyrelevant to these issues.
Although service inter-actions are pervasive in everyday life, and can berich and interesting, the vast majority of attemptsto model and engineer them have attempted to op-timize efficiency and surface-goal completion.
Theresults are all around us, from crudely scripted up-selling attempts at fast food restaurants to stilted di-alog systems that tediously elicit the pieces of infor-mation needed to complete a database query.
Onereason is that the research community has come toshun most practical dialog types, perhaps to avoidseeming old-fashioned or being tainted by low ex-pectations, or perhaps due to a misperception thatindustry is addressing these issues.
A resource thatwould help progress here would be a commercial-dialogs corpora that is shareable by all.Personally, I would like this corpus to be one witha truly exemplary person in the service role, some-one who puts customers at ease, develops rapport,?This work was supported by NSF Award IIS-0914868.brings humor and sparkle, and makes them want tocall back.
Having several thousand short dialogswhere diverse customers call in to that person, andmodeling how she handles them, would take us along way to understanding responsive and adaptivebehaviors.
Even prototype systems built on such di-alogs could help set the agenda for future genera-tions of commercial dialog systems.2 To Reach Out to the Applied LinguisticsCommunities, Dialog Analysis ToolsAlthough many people are fascinated by languageand dialog, spoken dialog systems research has onlysporadically tapped this enthusiasm.
For example,researchers in the conversation analysis tradition andteachers of foreign languages, not to mention manyundergraduates, love to explore patterns of dialog.However spoken dialog research so far has producedscant findings about language behavior that are in-teresting to and graspable by non-engineers.Personally, I think the biggest opportunity here in-volves tools to support non-technical people in dis-covering things themselves.
Even amateurs, suchas high school science fair participants, should beable to satisfy curiosity or confirm hunches, and ex-perience the joy of systematically examining dia-log phenomena.
Our community ought to be pro-ducing tools and toolsets that support the completeworkflow in such inquiries, eclectically supportingtagging, searching, juxtaposing clips and so on,and supporting both perceptually-based analysis andquantitative analysis in an integrated way.
In par-ticular we need to go beyond in-lab solutions (Wardand Al Bayyari, 2006) to develop robust toolsets that3can be used effectively without months of training.3 To Reach Out to the PsycholinguisticsCommunity, Modeling-Related GoalsAlthough many people are curious about how com-munication feats are achieved daily by humanminds, spoken dialog research has only sporadicallyraised questions of real scientific interest.
The spo-ken dialog community ought to formulate one or twohigh-profile grand-challenge problems that wouldinspire and bring people together, either coopera-tively or in competition.
Rather than ?dialog man-agement?
and systems-type problems, these shouldbe framed as ?dialog modeling?
problems, to makeit clear that they are true scientific problems, andformulated so that they can be addressed more em-pirically and/or more theoretically, without requir-ing researchers to work with end-to-end systems.Such purer formulations should also help focus onquestions of the fundamental human perceptions andabilities involved here, and how they vary with age,personality, language and culture.Personally I think the most central and dialog-specific issues in our field are those relating to inter-personal coordination.
Topics here have been nib-bled at, perhaps most saliently in the study of turn-taking phenomena.
Possible grand challenges mayrelate to topics such as ?dialog dynamics?
and ?pre-diction of the interlocutor?s actions,?
but formulatingthese problems so that they are general, and yet rel-evant and tractable, has been difficult (Ward, 2010;Ward et al, 2010).4 To Reach Out to the Speech ProcessingCommunity, More Open ModelsFirst, although speech generation and speech synthe-sis researchers are currently looking for new chal-lenges, beyond correctness and intelligibilty, the di-alog systems community has only sporadically of-fered them interesting goals.
These systems needsomehow to be able to express the richness of theattitudes, structures, and intentions people convey indialog, in real time, and we ought to provide spec-ifications for this.
Personally I think that multi-dimensional vector-space models of dialog states,situations, and intentions have promise here, andthat these can best be developed by bottom-up em-pirical studies (Ward and Vega, 2012 submitteda),one of which suggests that the important dimensionsof dialog include, at least, in rough order of impor-tance: who has the floor, the activity level, topicaging and transition, turn taking, seeking vs. estab-lishing grounding, empathy, and sympathy, lexicalaccess and planning processes, dominance, confi-dence, affect and attitude, rhetorical structure andstrategy, and indications of concentration and in-volvement.Second, although research on emotion and othernonverbal aspects of speech is advancing, this hasonly sporadically been guided by the needs of dia-log systems.
We ought to be thinking more abouthow emotion, attitude, stance, and related dimen-sions of communication are used in dialog.
Person-ally I think that empirical studies of prosody, again,can be informative.Third, although speech recognition researchersare adding flexibility and incrementality, speech rec-ognizers?
interactions with the dialog manager arestill very limited.
In particular, the role of the dialogmodel in telling the recognizer what words are likelyto come next, that is, its role in language modeling,is still underdeveloped.
Personally I think we needdialog models that track more aspects of the dialog,and do so continuously, and supply that informationto the recognizer (Ward and Vega, 2012 submittedb).ReferencesNigel Ward and Yaffa Al Bayyari.
2006.
A case studyin the identification of prosodic cues to turn-taking:Back-channeling in Arabic.
In Interspeech 2006 Pro-ceedings.Nigel G. Ward and Alejandro Vega.
2012, submitteda.A bottom-up exploration of the dimensions of dialogstate in spoken interaction.
In Sigdial.Nigel G. Ward and Alejandro Vega.
2012, submittedb.Towards empirical dialog-state modeling and its use inlanguage modeling.
In Interspeech.Nigel G. Ward, Olac Fuentes, and Alejandro Vega.
2010.Dialog prediction for a general model of turn-taking.In Interspeech.Nigel G. Ward.
2010.
The challenge of modeling dialogdynamics.
In Workshop on Modeling Human Commu-nication Dynamics, at Neural Information ProcessingSystems.4
