Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Joint Workshop of LINGVIS & UNCLH, pages 44?48,Avignon, France, April 23 - 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsVisualising Linguistic Evolution in Academic DiscourseVerena LydingEuropean Academy of Bolzano-Bozenverena.lyding@eurac.eduEkaterina Lapshinova-KoltunskiSaarland Universitye.lapshinova@mx.uni-saarland.deStefania Degaetano-OrtliebSaarland Universitys.degaetano@mx.uni-saarland.deHenrik DittmannEuropean Academy of Bolzano-Bozenhenrik.dittmann@eurac.eduChristopher CulyThe University of Tu?bingenchristopher.culy@uni-tuebingen.deAbstractThe present paper describes procedures tovisualise diachronic language changes inacademic discourse to support analysis.These changes are reflected in the distri-bution of different lexico-grammatical fea-tures according to register.
Findings aboutregister differences are relevant for both lin-guistic applications (e.g., discourse analysisand translation studies) and NLP tasks (no-tably automatic text classification).1 IntroductionThe present paper describes procedures to visu-alise diachronic language changes in academicdiscourse with the aim to facilitate analysisand interpretation of complex data.
Diachronicchanges are reflected by linguistic features of reg-isters under analysis.
Registers are patterns of lan-guage according to use in context, cf.
(Hallidayand Hasan, 1989).To analyse register change, we extract lexico-grammatical features from a diachronic corpus ofacademic English, and visualise our extraction re-sults with Structured Parallel Coordinates (SPC),a tool for the visualisation of structured multidi-mensional data, cf.
(Culy et al, 2011).Our approach is based on the inspection andcomparison of how different features change overtime and registers.
The major aim is to deter-mine and describe tendencies of features, whichmight become rarer, more frequent or cluster innew ways.
The amount and complexity of the in-terrelated data, which is obtained for nine disci-plines in two time periods (see section 2) makesthe analysis more difficult.Structured Parallel Coordinates provide a toolfor the compact visual presentation of complexdata.
The visualisation of statistical values fordifferent linguistic features laid out over time andregister supports data analysis as tendencies be-come apparent.
Furthermore, interactive featuresallow for taking different views on the data andfocussing on interesting aspects.2 Data to Analyse2.1 Features and theoretical backgroundWhen defining lexico-grammatical features, werefer to Systemic Functional Linguistics (SFL)and register theory, e.g., (Quirk, 1985), (Hallidayand Hasan, 1989) and (Biber, 1995), which areconcerned with linguistic variation according tocontexts of use, typically distinguishing the threecontextual variables of field, tenor and mode ofdiscourse.
Particular settings of these variablesare associated with the co-occurrences of certainlexico-grammatical features, creating distinctiveregisters (e.g., the language of linguistics in aca-demic discourse).
We also consider investiga-tions of recent language change, observed, e.g.,by (Mair, 2006), who analyses changes in prefer-ences of lexico-grammatical selection in Englishin the 1960s vs. the 1990s.As a case study, we show an analysis ofmodal verbs (falling into the contextual variableof tenor), which we group according to (Biber,1999) into three categories of meaning that rep-resent three features: obligation, permission andvolition (see Table 1).2.2 ResourcesThe selected features are extracted from SciTex,cf.
(Degaetano et al, 2012) and (Teich and44categories of meanings (feature) realisationobligation/necessity (obligaton) can, could, may, etc.permission/possibility/ability (permission) must, should, etc.volition/prediction (volition) will, would, shall, etc.Table 1: Categories of modal meanings for feature extractionFankhauser, 2010), an English corpus which con-tains full English scientific journal articles fromnine disciplines (see Figure 1).
The corpus coverstwo time periods: the 1970/early 1980s (SaSci-Tex) and the early 2000s (DaSciTex), and in-cludes ca.
34 million tokens.
Our focus is espe-cially on the subcorpora representing contact reg-isters, i.e.
registers emerged out of register con-tact, in our case with computer science: computa-tional linguistics (B1), bioinformatics (B2), digi-tal construction (B3), and microelectronics (B4).COMPUTERSCIENCE(A)LINGUISTICS(C1)COMPUTATIONALLINGUISTICS(B1)BIOLOGY(C2)BIO-INFORMATICS(B2)ELECTRICALENGINEERING(C4)MICRO-ELECTRONICS(B4)MECHANICALENGINEERING(C3)DIGITALCONSTRUCTION(B3)Figure 1: Scientific disciplines in the SciTex corpusSciTex is annotated1 with information on to-ken, lemma, part-of-speech and sentence bound-ary, as well as further information on text bound-ary, register information, etc., and can be queriedin form of regular expressions by the CorpusQuery Processor (CQP), cf.
(Evert, 2005).2.3 Feature Extraction and AnalysisTo extract the above described features for the twotime slices (1970/80s and 2000s) and for all nineregisters of SciTex, we elaborate queries, whichinclude both lexical (based on token and lemmainformation) and grammatical (based on part-of-speech or sentence boundary information) con-straints.1Annotations were obtained by means of a dedicated pro-cessing pipeline (Kermes, 2011).Annotations on the register information allowus to sort the extracted material according to spe-cific subcorpora.
This enables the analysis of fea-tures possibly involved in creating distinctive reg-isters.
Comparing differences and/or common-alities in the distribution of features for A-B-Ctriples of subcorpora (e.g., A-computer science,B1-computational linguistics, C1-linguistics, cf.Figure 1), we analyse whether the contact disci-plines (B-subcorpora) are more similar to com-puter science (A-subcorpus), the discipline of ori-gin (C-subcorpus) or distinct from both (A and C).The two time periods in SciTex (70/80s vs. 2000s)enable a diachronic analysis.
A more fine-graineddiachronic analysis is also possible with the infor-mation on the publication year annotated in thecorpus.3 Analysing language changes with SPC3.1 SPC visualisationStructured Parallel Coordinates (Culy et al, 2011)are a specialisation of the Parallel Coordinatesvisualisation (cf.
(d?Ocagne, 1885), (Inselberg,1985), (Inselberg, 2009)) for representing mul-tidimensional data using a two-dimensional dis-play.
Parallel Coordinates place data on verticalaxes, with the axes lined up horizontally.
Eachaxis represents a separate data dimension and canhold either categorical or numerical data.
Datapoints on different axes are related which is indi-cated by colored lines connecting all data itemsbelonging to one record.Targeted to the application to language data,SPC additionally provide for ordered characteris-tics of data within and across data dimensions.
Inthe n-grams with frequencies/KWIC2 implemen-tations of SPC, ordered axes represent the linearordering of words in text.In our analysis of language change based onlinguistic features, we are interested in two di-rections of changes across data sets that can berepresented by ordering: changes over time and2www.eurac.edu/linfovis45changes across registers, e.g., from linguistics andcomputer science to computational linguistics.3.2 Adjustments to SPCFor the analysis of linguistic features with SPC,we start off with the n-grams with frequencies im-plementation.
In analyzing just two time dimen-sions the ordered aspect of SPC is not as crucialand a similar analysis could have been done withParallel Coordinates.
However, the setup of n-grams with frequencies conveniently provides uswith the combination of categorical and numericaldata dimensions in one display but separated visu-ally.
For our diachronic register analysis, we cre-ate a subcorpus comparison application where thefeature under analysis as well as some of the cor-pus data are placed on the unordered categoricalaxes, and frequencies for the two time periods areplaced on ordered axes with numerical scales.
Asshown in Figure 2 below, unordered dimensionsare followed by ordered dimensions, the inversesituation to n-grams with frequencies.
To visu-ally support the categorical nature of data on thefirst three axes, SPC was adjusted to display theconnecting lines in discrete colors instead of thedefault color scale shading from red to blue.
Toimprove the comparability of values on numericalaxes, a function for switching between compara-ble and individual scales was added that applies toall axes right of the separating red line.
Figure 2and 3 present numerical values as percentages oncomparable scales scaled to 100.3.3 Interactive features for analysisSPC provide a number of interactive features thatsupport data analysis.
To highlight and accentuateselected parts of the data, an axis can be put intofocus and parts of axes can be selected.
Lines arecolored according to the axis under focus, and fil-ters apply to the selected portions of axes, with theother data rendered in gray.
Users can switch be-tween discrete colors and scaled coloring of con-necting lines.
The scales of numerical axes can beadjusted interactively, as described above.
Hover-ing over a determined connecting line brings it outas a slightly wider line and gives a written sum-mary of the values of that record.4 Interpreting Visualisation ResultsVisualised structures provided by SPC supply uswith information on development tendencies, andthus, deliver valuable material for further interpre-tation of language variation across registers andtime.To analyse the frequencies of modal meanings(see Table 1) for A-B-C triples of subcorpora, weuse the subcorpus comparison option of SPC.
Theinteractive functionality of SPC allows us to focuson different aspects and provides us with dynam-ically updated versions of the visualisation.First, by setting focus on the axis of modalmeanings, the visualisation in Figure 2 shows di-achronic changes of the modal meanings from the1970/80s to the early 2000s.
In both time periodsthe permission (blue) meaning is most prominentand has considerably increased over time.
Thevolition (green) and obligation (orange) meaningsare less prominent and we can observe a decreaseof volition and a very slight decrease of obliga-tion.Second, by setting the axis of the registers intofocus and selecting the disciplines one by one, wecan explore whether there are changes in the useof modal meanings between the A register, thecontact registers (B), and the respective C regis-ters.
In Figure 3, for example, computer scienceand biology have been selected (gray shaded) onthe ?disciplines?
axis.
For this selection, the struc-tures starting from the ?registers?
axis represent(1) computer science (blue) being the A regis-ter, (2) biology (green) from the C registers, and(3) bioinformatics (orange) from the B registersas the corresponding contact register.
In termsof register changes, Figure 3 shows that bioin-formatics differs in the development tendencies(a) of permission from biology and computer sci-ence (less increase than the former, more increasethan the latter) and (b) of obligation from biology(decrease for biology, whereas nearly stable forbioinformatics and computer science).5 Conclusion and Future WorkThe results described above show that StructuredParallel Coordinates provides us with a means forthe interactive inspection of complex data sets fa-cilitating our diachronic register analysis.
The vi-sualisation allows to gain an overview and detecttendencies by accomodating a complex set of datain one display (nine registers over two time peri-ods for three meanings).The interactive features of SPC give the possi-bility to put different aspects of the data into fo-46Figure 2: Modal meanings in SciTex in the 1970/80s and 2000sFigure 3: Modal meanings in computer science (A-subcorpus; blue), bioinformatics (from B-subcorpus; orange)and biology (from C-subcorpus; green)47cus, and thus to successively zoom into specificsubsets of the data for detailed analyses.
In thisway, we can determine general tendencies (e.g.,increase of permission over time) or provide de-tailed analyses for certain linguistic features andregisters by selecting subparts of the data and byhighlighting different data dimensions (e.g., com-paring changes between different registers).Future work comprises to use the data obtainedfrom the corpus to feed several different SPC vi-sualisations.
For example, the data presented inFigure 2 can also be layed out to place values forregisters instead of values for time periods on thenumerical axes.Future analyses will focus on inspecting fur-ther tendencies in the feature development for thethree contextual variables mentioned in 2.1, e.g.,verb valency patterns for field or conjunctive re-lations expressing cohesion for mode.
We alsoaim at analysing several linguistic features at thesame time to possibly detect feature sets involvedin register variation of contact registers.
Addition-ally, a more fine-grained diachronic analysis ac-cording to the publication years, which are anno-tated in the corpus, might also prove to be useful.From a technical point of view, the issue withfully overlapping lines being displayed in onecolor only will be tackled by experimenting withsemi-transparent or stacked lines.
Furthermore,SPC should in the future be expanded by a func-tion for restructuring the underlying data to cre-ate different layouts.
This could also include themerging of axes with categorical values (e.g., axesregisters and disciplines in Figure 2 above).
Fur-thermore on each data dimension a ?summary?category could be introduced that would repre-sent the sum of all individual values, and wouldprovide an extra point of reference for the analy-sis.
For interactive data analysis, support could beprovided to select data items based on crossingsor declination of their connecting lines.ReferencesDouglas Biber.
1995.
Dimensions of Register Varia-tion.
A Cross-linguistic Comparison.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Douglas Biber.
1999.
Longman Grammar of Spokenand Written English.
Harlow: Pearson ESL.Chris Culy, Verena Lyding, and Henrik Dittmann.2011.
Structured Parallel Coordinates: a visualiza-tion for analyzing structured language data.
In Pro-ceedings of the 3rd International Conference onCorpus Linguistics, CILC-11, April 6-9, 2011, Va-lencia, Spain, 485?493.Stefania Degaetano-Ortlieb, Hannah Kermes, Ekate-rina Lapshinova-Koltunski and Elke Teich.
2012.SciTex ?
A Diachronic Corpus for Analyzing theDevelopment of Scientific Registers.
In: Paul Ben-nett, Martin Durrell, Silke Scheible & Richard J.Whitt (eds.
), New Methods in Historical CorpusLinguistics.
CLIP, Vol.
2, Narr: Tu?bingen.Stefan Evert.
2005.
The CQP Query Language Tuto-rial.
IMS, Universita?t Stuttgart.M.A.K.
Halliday and Ruqaiya Hasan.
1989.
Language,context and text: Aspects of language in a socialsemiotic perspective.
OUP.Alfred Inselberg.
2009.
Parallel Coordinates: VISUALMultidimensional Geometry and its Applications.New York: Springer.Alfred Inselberg.
1985.
The plane with parallel coor-dinates.
The Visual Computer 1(2), pp.
69?91.Hannah Kermes.
2011.
Automatic corpus creation.Manual.
Institute of Applied Linguistics, Transla-tion and Interpreting, Universita?t des Saarlandes,Saarbru?cken.Christian Mair.
2006.
Twentieth-Century English: His-tory, Variation and Standardization.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Maurice d?Ocagne.
1885.
Coordonne?es Paralle`les etAxiales: Me?thode de transformation ge?ome?triqueet proce?de?
nouveau de calcul graphique de?duits dela conside?ration des coordonne?es paralle`lles.
Paris:Gauthier-Villars.Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leechand Jan Svartvik.
1985.
A comprehensive grammarof the English language.
Harlow: LongmanElke Teich and Peter Fankhauser.
2010.
Exploring acorpus of scientific texts using data mining.
In:Gries S., S. Wulff and M. Davies (eds), Corpus-linguistic applications - Current studies, new direc-tions.
Rodopi, Amsterdam and New York, pp.
233?247.48
