Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 30?35,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 12 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnsupervised frame based semantic role induction: application to Frenchand EnglishAlejandra LorenzoLorraine University/LORIA Nancyalejandra.lorenzo@loria.frChristophe CerisaraCNRS/LORIA Nancychristophe.cerisara@loria.frAbstractThis paper introduces a novel unsupervisedapproach to semantic role induction that usesa generative Bayesian model.
To the best ofour knowledge, it is the first model that jointlyclusters syntactic verbs arguments into seman-tic roles, and also creates verbs classes ac-cording to the syntactic frames accepted bythe verbs.
The model is evaluated on Frenchand English, outperforming, in both cases, astrong baseline.
On English, it achieves re-sults comparable to state-of-the-art unsuper-vised approaches to semantic role induction.1 Introduction and backgroundSemantic Role Labeling (SRL) is a major task inNatural Language Processing which provides a shal-low semantic parsing of a text.
Its primary goal isto identify and label the semantic relations that holdbetween predicates (typically verbs), and their asso-ciated arguments (Ma`rquez et al, 2008).The extensive research carried out in this area re-sulted in a variety of annotated resources, which,in time, opened up new possibilities for supervisedSRL systems.
Although such systems show verygood performance, they require large amounts ofannotated data in order to be successful.
This an-notated data is not always available, very expen-sive to create and often domain specific (Pradhanet al, 2008).
There is in particular no such dataavailable for French.
To bypass this shortcoming,?annotation-by-projection?
approaches have beenproposed (Pado and Lapata, 2006) which in essence,(i) project the semantic annotations available in onelanguage (usually English), to text in another lan-guage (in this case French); and (ii) use the resultingannotations to train a semantic role labeller.
ThusPado and Pitel (2007) show that the projection-basedannotation framework permits bootstrapping a se-mantic role labeller for FrameNet which reaches anF-measure of 63%; and van der Plas et al (2011)show that training a joint syntactic-semantic parserbased on the projection approach permits reachingan F-measure for the labeled attachment score onPropBank annotation of 65%.Although they minimize the manual effort in-volved, these approaches still require both an an-notated source corpus and an aligned target corpus.Moreover, they assume a specific role labeling (e.g.,PropBank, FrameNet or VerbNet roles) and are notgenerally portable from one framework to another.These drawbacks with supervised approaches mo-tivated the need for unsupervised methods capableof exploiting large amounts of unannotated data.
Inthis context several approaches have been proposed.Swier and Stevenson (2004) were the first to intro-duce unsupervised SRL in an approach that usedthe VerbNet lexicon to guide unsupervised learning.Grenager and Manning (2006) proposed a directedgraphical model for role induction that exploits lin-guistic priors for syntactic and semantic inference.Following this work, Lang and Lapata (2010) for-mulated role induction as the problem of detectingalternations and mapping non-standard linkings tocannonical ones, and later as a graph partitioningproblem in (Lang and Lapata, 2011b).
They alsoproposed an algorithm that uses successive splits andmerges of semantic roles clusters in order to improve30their quality in (Lang and Lapata, 2011a).
Finally,Titov and Klementiev (2012), introduce two newBayesian models that treat unsupervised role induc-tion as the clustering of syntactic argument signa-tures, with clusters corresponding to semantic roles,and achieve the best state-of-the-art results.In this paper, we propose a novel unsupervisedapproach to semantic role labeling that differs fromprevious work in that it integrates the notion of verbclasses into the model (by analogy with VerbNet,we call these verb classes, frames).
We show thatthis approach gives good results both on the En-glish PropBank and on a French corpus annotatedwith VerbNet style semantic roles.
For the EnglishPropBank, although the model is more suitable fora framework that uses a shared set of role labelssuch as VerbNet, we obtain results comparable tothe state-of-the-art.
For French, the model is shownto outperform a strong baseline by a wide margin.2 Probabilistic ModelAs mentioned in the introduction, semantic role la-beling comprises two sub-tasks: argument identifi-cation and role induction.
Following common prac-tice (Lang and Lapata, 2011a; Titov and Klemen-tiev, 2012), we assume oracle argument identifica-tion and focus on argument labeling.
The approachwe propose is an unsupervised generative Bayesianmodel that clusters arguments into classes each ofwhich can be associated with a semantic role.
Themodel starts by generating a frame assignment toeach verb instance where a frame is a clustering ofverbs and associated roles.
Then, for each observedverb argument, a semantic role is drawn conditionedon the frame.
Finally, the word and dependency la-bel of this argument are generated.
The model ad-mits a simple Gibbs algorithm where the number oflatent variables is proportional to the number of rolesand frames to be clustered.There are two key benefits of this model architec-ture.
First, it directly encodes linguistic intuitionsabout semantic frames: the model structure reflectsthe subcategorisation property of the frame variable,which also groups verbs that share the same set ofsemantic roles, something very close to the VerbNetnotion of frames.
Second, by ignoring the ?verb-specific?
nature of PropBank labels, we reduce theFigure 1: Plate diagram of the proposed directedBayesian model.need for a large amount of data and we better shareevidence across roles.In addition, because it is unsupervised, the modelis independent both of the language and of the spe-cific semantic framework (since no inventory of se-mantic role is a priori chosen).2.1 Model descriptionThe goal of the task is to assign argument instancesto clusters, such that each argument cluster repre-sents a specific semantic role, and each role corre-sponds to one cluster.
The model is represented inthe form of a plate diagram in Figure 1.
The ob-served random variables are the verb V (lemma), itsvoice V o (active or passive), the words W (lemma)that are arguments of this verb, and the syntactic de-pendency labelsD that link the argument to its head.There are two latent variables: the frame F that rep-resents the class of the verb, and the role R assignedto each of its arguments.
The parameters ?
of allmultinomial distributions are Dirichlet distributed,with fixed symmetric concentration hyper-parameter?.
The frame plays a fundamental role in this set-ting, since it intends to capture classes of verbs thatshare similar distributions of role arguments.The model?s generative story is described next,followed by a description of the inference algorithmused to apply the model to an unannotated corpus.2.2 Generative storyFor each verb instance, the proposed model first gen-erates a frame cluster, a voice (active or passive), and31then a verb lemma from the distribution of verbs inthis frame.
The number of arguments is assumedfixed.
For each argument, a role is sampled condi-tioned on the frame.
Then, a word is sampled fromthe distribution of words associated to this role, andfinally a dependency label is generated, conditionedboth on the role and the voice.
All multinomial pa-rameters are collapsed, and thus not sampled.
AllDirichlet hyper-parameters are assumed constant.To identify words, we use either word lemmas orpart-of-speech tags.
In order to avoid data sparse-ness issues, we consider the word lemma only incases where there are more than 9 instances of theword lemma in the corpus.
Otherwise, if the numberof word lemma instances is less than 10, we use thepart-of-speech tags.2.3 Learning and InferenceA collapsed Gibbs sampler is used to perform poste-rior inference on the model.
Initially, all frames Fiare sampled randomly from a uniform distribution,while the roles Ri,j are assigned either randomly orfollowing the deterministic syntactic function base-line, which simply clusters predicate arguments ac-cording to their syntactic function.
This function isdescribed in detail in Section 3.The Gibbs sampling algorithm samples each la-tent variable (Fi and Ri,j) in turn according to itsposterior distribution conditioned on all other in-stances of this variable (noted F?i and R?
(i,j) re-spectively) and all other variables.
These posteriorsare detailed next.In the following, Ri,j represents the random vari-able for the jth role of the ith verb in the corpus: itsvalue is Ri,j = ri,j at a given iteration of the sam-pling algorithm.
nrf,r is the count of occurrences of(Fi = f,Ri,j = r) in the whole corpus, excludingthe ith instance when the superscript ?i is used.
Astar ?
matches any possible value.
The joint proba-bility over the whole corpus with collapsed multino-mial parameters is:p(F,R, V,W,D, V o|?
)=?Nfi=1 ?
(nf i + ?F )?
(?Nfi=1 nf i + ?F )?
(?Nfi=1 ?F )?Nfi=1 ?
(?F )?Nf?i=1?Nvj=1 ?
(nvi,j + ?V )?
(?Nvj=1 nvi,j + ?V )?
(?Nvj=1 ?V )?Nvj=1 ?
(?V )?Nf?i=1?Nrj=1 ?
(nri,j + ?R)?
(?Nrj=1 nri,j + ?R)?
(?Nrj=1 ?R)?Nrj=1 ?
(?R)?Nvo?i=1Nr?j=1?Ndk=1 ?
(ndi,j,k + ?D)?
(?Ndk=1 ndi,j,k + ?D)?
(?Ndk=1 ?D)?Ndk=1 ?
(?D)?Nr?i=1?Nwj=1 ?
(nwi,j + ?W )?
(?Nwj=1 nwi,j + ?W )?
(?Nwj=1 ?W )?Nwj=1 ?
(?W )?
?Nvoi=1 ?
(nvoi + ?V o)?
(?Nvoi=1 nvoi + ?V o)?
(?Nvoi=1 ?V o)?Nvoi=1 ?
(?V o)The posterior from which the frame is sampled isderived from the joint distribution as follows:p(Fi = y|F?i, R, V,W, V o) (1)?p(F,R, V,W,D, V o)p(F?i, R?i, V?i,W?i, D?i, V o?i)=(nf?iy + ?F )(?Nfz=1 nf?iz + ?F )?
(nv?iy,vi + ?V )(?Nvj=1 nv?iy,j + ?V )??r?ri,?
?nr+ir ?1x=0 (nr?iy,r + ?R + x)?Mix=0(?Nrr=1 nr?iy,r + ?R + x)where nr+ir is the count of occurrences of role r inthe arguments of verb instance i (Mi =?r nr+ir ).The update equation for sampling the role be-comes:p(Ri,j = y|R?
(i,j), F, V,W,D, V o) (2)?p(F,R, V,W,D, V o)p(F?i, V?i, R?(i,j),W?
(i,j), D?
(i,j), V o?(i,j))=(nr?
(i,j)fi,y + ?R)(?Nrk=1 nr?
(i,j)fi,k+ ?R)?(nd?
(i,j)voi,y,di,j + ?D)(?Ndk=1 nd?
(i,j)voi,y,k+ ?D)?(nw?
(i,j)y,wi,j + ?W )(?Nwk=1 nw?
(i,j)y,k + ?W )After T iterations, the process is stopped and theexpected value of the sampled frames and roles af-ter the burn-in period (20 iterations) is computed.With deterministic (syntactic) initialization, T is setto 200, while it is set to 2000 with random initializa-tion because of slower convergence.3 Evaluations and resultsWe evaluate our model both on English to situateour approach with respect to the state of the art; andon French to demonstrate its portability to other lan-guages.3.1 Common experimental setupThe model?s parameters have been tuned with afew rounds of trial-and-error on the English devel-opment corpus: For the hyper-parameters, we set32?F = 0.5, ?R = 1.e?3, ?V = 1.e?7, ?V o = 1.e?3,?D = 1.e?8 and ?W = 0.5.
For the evaluation onFrench, we only changed the ?F and ?W parame-ters.
In order to reflect the rather uniform distribu-tion of verb instances across verb classes we set ?Fto 1.
Moreover, we set ?W to 0.001 because of thesmaller number of words and roles in the French cor-pus.
The number of roles and frames were chosenbased on the properties of each corpus.
We set num-ber of roles to 40 and 10, and the number of framesto 300 and 60 for English and French respectively.As done in (Lang and Lapata, 2011a) and (Titov andKlementiev, 2012), we use purity and collocationmeasures to assess the quality of our role inductionprocess.
For each verb, the purity of roles?
clustersis computed as follows:PU =1N?imaxj|Gj ?
Ci|where Ci is the set of arguments in the ith clus-ter found, Gj is the set of arguments in the jth goldclass, and N is the number of argument instances.In a similar way, the collocation of roles?
clusters iscomputed as follows:CO =1N?jmaxi|Gj ?
Ci|Then, each score is averaged over all verbs.
In thesame way as (Lang and Lapata, 2011a), we use themicro-average obtained by weighting the scores forindividual verbs proportionally to the number of ar-gument instances for that verb.
Finally the F1 mea-sure is the harmonic mean of the aggregated valuesof purity and collocation:F1 =2 ?
CO ?
PUCO + PU3.2 Evaluations on FrenchTo evaluate our model on French, we used a manu-ally annotated corpora consisting on sentences fromthe Paris 7 Treebank (Abeille?
et al, 2000), con-taining verbs extracted from the gold standard V-GOLD (Sun et al, 2010)1.
For each verb, at most 25sentences from the Paris 7 Treebank were randomly1V-GOLD consists of 16 fine grained Levin classes with 12verbs each (translated to French) whose predominant sense inEnglish belong to that class.Role VerbNet rolesAgent Agent, Actor, Actor1, Actor2Experiencer ExperiencerTheme Stimulus, Theme, Theme1, Theme2Topic Proposition, TopicPredAtt Predicate, AttributePatient Patient, Patient1, Patient2Start Material, SourceEnd Product, Destination, RecipientLocation LocationInstrument InstrumentCause CauseBeneficiary BeneficiaryExtent Asset, Extent, Time, ValueTable 1: VerbNet role groups (French).selected and annotated with VerbNet-style thematicroles.
In some cases, the annotated roles were ob-tained by merging some of the VerbNet roles (e.g.,Actor, Actor1 and Actor2 are merged); or by group-ing together classes sharing the same thematic grids.The resulting roles assignment groups 116 verbs into12 VerbNet classes, each associated with a uniquethematic grid.
Table 1 shows the set of roles usedand their relation to VerbNet roles.
This constitutesour gold evaluation corpus.The baseline model is the ?syntactic function?used for instance in (Lang and Lapata, 2011a),which simply clusters predicate arguments accord-ing to the dependency relation to their head.
Thisis a standard baseline for unsupervised SRL, which,although simple, has been shown difficult to outper-form.
As done in previous work, it is implementedby allocating a different cluster to each of the 10most frequent syntactic relations, and one extra clus-ter for all the other relations.
Evaluation results areshown in Table 2.
The proposed model significantlyoutperforms the deterministic baseline, which vali-dates the unsupervised learning process.PU CO F1Synt.Func.
(baseline) 78.9 73.4 76.1Proposed model - rand.
init 74.6 82.9 78.5Table 2: Comparison of the Syntactic Function baselinewith the proposed system initialized randomly, evaluatedwith gold parses and argument identification (French).3.3 Evaluations on EnglishWe made our best to follow the setup used in previ-ous work (Lang and Lapata, 2011a; Titov and Kle-33mentiev, 2012), in order to compare with the currentstate of the art.The data used is the standard CoNLL 2008 sharedtask (Surdeanu et al, 2008) version of Penn Tree-bank WSJ and PropBank.
Our model is evaluatedon gold generated parses, using the gold PropBankannotations.
In PropBank, predicates are associatedwith a set of roles, where roles A2-A5 or AA areverb specific, while adjuncts roles (AM) are con-sistent across verbs.
Besides, roles A0 and A1 at-tempt to capture Proto-Agent and Proto-Patient roles(Dowty, 1991), and thus are more valid across verbsand verb instances than A2-A5 roles.Table 3 reports the evaluation results of the pro-posed model along with those of the baseline systemand of some of the latest state-of-the-art results.PU CO F1Synt.Func.
(LL) 81.6 77.5 79.5Split Merge 88.7 73.0 80.1Graph Part.
88.6 70.7 78.6TK-Bay.1 88.7 78.1 83.0TK-Bay.2 89.2 74.0 80.9Synt.Func.
79.6 84.6 82.0Proposed model - rand.
init 82.2 83.4 82.8Proposed model - synt.
init 83.4 84.1 83.7Table 3: Comparison of the proposed system (last 2 rows)with other unsupervised semantic role inducers evaluatedon gold parses and argument identification.We can first note that, despite our efforts toreproduce the same baseline, there is still a dif-ference between our baseline (Synt.Func.)
andthe baseline reported in (Lang and Lapata, 2011a)(Synt.Func.
(LL)) 2.The other results respectively correspond to theSplit Merge approach presented in (Lang and Lap-ata, 2011a) (Split Merge), the Graph Partitioning al-gorithm (Graph Part.)
presented in (Lang and Lap-ata, 2011b), and two Bayesian approaches presentedin (Titov and Klementiev, 2012), which achieve thebest current unsupervised SRL results.
The first suchmodel (TK-Bay.1) clusters argument fillers and di-rectly maps some syntactic labels to semantic rolesfor some adjunct like modifiers that are explicitlyrepresented in the syntax, while the second model(TK-Bay.2) does not include these two features.2We identified afterwards a few minor differences in bothexperimental setups that partly explain this, e.g., evaluation onthe test vs. train sets, finer-grained gold classes in our case...Two versions of the proposed model are reportedin the last rows of Table 3: one with random (uni-form) initialization of all variables, and the otherwith deterministic initialization of all Ri from thesyntactic function.
Indeed, although many unsuper-vised system are very sensitive to initialization, weobserve that in the proposed model, unsupervised in-ference reaches reasonably good performances evenwith a knowledge-free initialization.
Furthermore,when initialized with the strong deterministic base-line, the model still learns new evidences and im-proves over the baseline to give comparable resultsto the best unsupervised state-of-the-art systems.4 Conclusions and future workWe have presented a method for unsupervised SRLthat is based on an intuitive generative Bayesianmodel that not only clusters arguments into seman-tic roles, but also explicitly integrates the conceptof frames in SRL.
Previous approaches to seman-tic role induction proposed some clustering of roleswithout explicitly focusing on the verb classes gen-erated.
Although there has been work on verb clus-tering, this is, to the best of our knowledge, the firstapproach that jointly considers both tasks.In this work in progress, we focused on the roleinduction task and we only evaluated this part, leav-ing the evaluation of verb classes as future work.
Wesuccessfully evaluated the proposed model on twolanguages, French and English, showing, in bothcases, consistent performances improvement overthe deterministic baseline.
Furthermore, its accu-racy reaches a level comparable to that of the beststate-of-the-art unsupervised systems.The model could be improved in many ways, andin particular by including some penalization term forsampling the same role for several arguments of averb instance (at least for core roles).
Moreover, webelieve that our model better fits within a frameworkthat allows roles sharing between verbs (or frames),such as VerbNet, and we would like to carry out adeeper evaluation on this concept.AcknowledgmentsThe authors wish to thank Claire Gardent for hervaluable suggestions and Ingrid Falk for providingthe data for the evaluation on French.34ReferencesA.
Abeille?, L. Cle?ment, and A. Kinyon.
2000.
Buildinga treebank for French.
In Proceedings of the LREC2000.David Dowty.
1991.
Thematic proto-roles and argumentselection.
Language, 67:547?619.Trond Grenager and Christopher D. Manning.
2006.Unsupervised discovery of a statistical verb lexicon.In Proceedings of the 2006 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP?06, pages 1?8, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Joel Lang and Mirella Lapata.
2010.
Unsupervised in-duction of semantic roles.
In Human Language Tech-nologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, HLT ?10, pages 939?947, Strouds-burg, PA, USA.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Joel Lang and Mirella Lapata.
2011a.
Unsupervised se-mantic role induction via split-merge clustering.
InACL, pages 1117?1126.
Association for ComputerLinguistics.Joel Lang and Mirella Lapata.
2011b.
Unsupervisedsemantic role induction with graph partitioning.
InEMNLP, pages 1320?1331.
Association for ComputerLinguistics.Llu?
?s Ma`rquez, Xavier Carreras, Kenneth C. Litkowski,and Suzanne Stevenson.
2008.
Semantic role label-ing: an introduction to the special issue.
Comput.
Lin-guist., 34(2):145?159, June.Sebastian Pado and Mirella Lapata.
2006.
Optimal con-stituent alignment with edge covers for semantic pro-jection.
In Proceedings of ACL-COLING 2006, pages1161?1168, Sydney, Australia.Sebastian Pado and Guillaume Pitel.
2007.
Annotationpre?cise du franais en se?mantique de ro?les par projec-tion cross-linguistique.
In Proceedings of TALN-07,Toulouse, France.Sameer S. Pradhan, Wayne Ward, and James H. Martin.2008.
Towards robust semantic role labeling.
Comput.Linguist., 34(2):289?310, June.L.
Sun, A. Korhonen, T. Poibeau, and C. Messiant.
2010.Investigating the cross-linguistic potential of VerbNet-style classification.
In Proceedings of the 23rd In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,COLING ?10, pages 1056?1064, Stroudsburg, PA,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Mihai Surdeanu, Richard Johansson, Adam Meyers,Llu?
?s Ma`rquez, and Joakim Nivre.
2008.
Theconll-2008 shared task on joint parsing of syntacticand semantic dependencies.
In Proceedings of theTwelfth Conference on Computational Natural Lan-guage Learning, CoNLL ?08, pages 159?177, Strouds-burg, PA, USA.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Robert S. Swier and Suzanne Stevenson.
2004.
Unsu-pervised Semantic Role Labelling.
In EMNLP, pages95?102.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Ivan Titov and Alexandre Klementiev.
2012.
A bayesianapproach to unsupervised semantic role induction.
InProceedings of the Conference of the European Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Avignon, France, April.Lonneke van der Plas, Paola Merlo, and James Hender-son.
2011.
Scaling up cross-lingual semantic annota-tion transfer.
In Proceedings of ACL/HLT, pages 299?304.35
