NAACL-HLT 2012 Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies (SLPAT), pages 37?46,Montre?al, Canada, June 7?8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAssisting Social Conversation between Persons with Alzheimer?s Diseaseand their Conversational PartnersNancy L. Green Curry Guinn Ronnie W. SmithUNC GreensboroDept.
of Computer ScienceUNC WilmingtonDept.
of Computer ScienceEast Carolina UniversityDept.
of Computer ScienceGreensboro, NC, USA Wilmington, NC, USA Greenville, NC, USAnlgreen@uncg.edu guinnc@uncw.edu rws@cs.ecu.eduAbstractThe number of people with dementia of the Alzheimer'stype (DAT) continues to grow.
One of the significantimpacts of this disease is a decline in the ability tocommunicate using natural language.
This decline inlanguage facility often results in decreased social inter-action and life satisfaction for persons with DAT andtheir caregivers.
One possible strategy to lessen the ef-fects of this loss of language facility is for the unaffect-ed conversational partner (Facilitator) to "co-construct"short autobiographical stories from the life of the DAT-affected conversational partner (Storyteller).
It has beenobserved that a skilled conversational partner can facili-tate co-constructed narrative with individuals who havemild to moderate DAT.
Developing a computationalmodel of this type of co-constructed narrative wouldenable assistive technology to be developed that canmonitor a conversation between a Storyteller and Facili-tator.
This technology could provide context-sensitivesuggestions to an unskilled Facilitator to help maintainthe flow of conversation.
This paper describes a frame-work in which the necessary computational model ofco-constructed narrative can be developed.
An analysisof the fundamental elements of such a model will bepresented.1 IntroductionAccording to the Alzheimer?s Association[2009], 13% of Americans over the age of 65 pre-sent with AD [Alzheimer?s Disease].
The declinein language associated with AD can result in de-creased social interaction and life satisfaction forpersons with AD and their caregivers.
In particu-lar, persons with AD begin to feel a loss of theirpersonal identity.
?Reminiscent therapy is an ex-ample of an intervention activity that can revealand support a person?s identity.
Even the familycan participate and play a major role to supporttheir relative?
(Cohene et al 2005).It has been suggested that if caregivers can learncommunication techniques to enhance social con-versation with individuals affected by dementia ofthe Alzheimer?s type (DAT), it may make a signif-icant difference in the quality of life of the personswith DAT, as well as reduce stress on their care-givers (Dijkstra et al 2004).
One recommendedtechnique (Moore and Davis 2002; Waller 2006) isfor the unaffected conversational partner (calledthe Facilitator in this paper) to ?co-construct?
shortautobiographical vignettes with the DAT-affectedconversational partner (called the Storyteller in thispaper).
Typically, such ?small stories?
(Bambergand Georgakopoulou 2008) present the teller?sself-identity (e.g., hard-working, frugal, etc.).
Ac-cording to Cheepen (1988), co-constructed narra-tive is common in social conversation.Furthermore, skilled conversational partners canfacilitate co-constructed narrative with individualswho have mild to moderate DAT (Davis 2005; Da-vis & Maclagan 2009; Davis 2010).
A co-constructed narrative produced by a person withDAT in conversation with skilled Facilitators isillustrated in Figure 1.
Increased social interactioncan improve quality of life by enabling personswith DAT to remain socially engaged, which inturn may reduce their health problems as well asdelay memory loss (Davis and Pope 2009; Len-chuk and Swain 2010).37Figure 1.
An excerpt from Shenk et al (2002, p. 409) ofa conversation between GM, a person with early moder-ate DAT, and her skilled conversational partners BDand LM.
We added annotations highlighting narrativeelements (Labov 1972).While there have been several notable efforts inthe area of communication training for caregiversof persons with DAT (see section 2.1), none havefocused on assistive technology for improvingcommunication in real-time as the conversation isoccurring.
This paper presents a framework fordeveloping a natural language processing system,ASSIST (Assistive Story Intervention Technolo-gy), which can listen to the conversation between aperson with DAT and his conversational partnerand provide context-sensitive suggestions to theunaffected participant to help maintain the flow ofconversation.
In particular, ASSIST will help theunaffected partner to co-construct the autobio-graphical stories of the participant with DAT.
Tobuild a system such as ASSIST will require devel-opment of a novel computational model of narra-tive co-construction and other communication-enhancing techniques for conversation with per-sons with DAT.
After reviewing related researchefforts, we present an analysis of the unique ele-ments of the required computational model includ-ing an NLU component designed to interpret thesometimes disfluent utterances of a Storyteller withDAT, a Dialogue/Story Manager which recognizesthe discourse goals of the Storyteller and plans dia-logue acts that the Facilitator could use to co-construct the narrative, and an NLG/Coach thatprovides the Facilitator with suggestions on whatto say next to co-construct the narrative and sustainthe conversation.2 Related Research2.1 DAT Caregiver CommunicationFor the most part, communication training forcaregivers of persons with DAT has used non-technological modes of active instruction such asrole playing with human trainers (Ripich et al1998, Burgio et al 2001) and individualized one-on-one coaching (McCallion et al 1999, Bourgeoiset al 2004).
Irvine et al (2003) describe a comput-er program that enables a user to observe videos ofconversations in which nurse aids demonstrate useof recommended communication techniques inconversation with patients.
Davis and colleagueshave developed a range of computer-based trainingmaterials (Davis and Smith 2009; Smith, Davis etal.
2010) providing information on stereotypes ofaging and dementia, communication changes indementia, and communication techniques such as?quilting?
(Moore and Davis 2003), in which thecaregiver repeats or paraphrases statements givenby the person with DAT that seem to be elabora-tions or evaluations of elements of a narrative.Green and colleagues developed and evaluated amenu-based interactive system for training care-givers to engage more effectively in social conver-sation with persons with DAT (Green 2002; Greenand Davis 2003; Green, Lawton and Davis 2004;Green 2005a; Green and Bevan 2009)./* orientation: */1.
GM:  I just lived in a regular farm home.Farmed cotton, corn, eh-everythingyou?grow on a farm.2.
BD:   That?s right./* complicating action: */3.
GM:  I had a big ol?
cotton bag tiedaround me, pickin?
a hundred pounds ofcotton ?
UhhmmHmm.4.
BD:  A hundred pounds?
An?
you so ti-ny!5.
GM:  Huh?6.
LM: You?re a tiny person to be carryingthat much cotton.7.
GM: I decided one day I?d pick a hun-dred pounds.
Guess how much!8.
LM: How much?/* resolution: */9.
GM:  A hundred and three.10.
LM:  Oooohh.11.
BD: Wow.12.
GM:  I went over.13.
BD: That?s fantastic./* evaluation: */14.
GM: A hundred and three?you?ve gotto grab it to?get a hundred and threepounds of cotton in one day.382.2 Augmentative and Alternative Communi-cation TechnologyThere has been recent interest in developing remi-niscence technology for the general population,e.g., (Cosley et al 2009; Petrelli et al 2009).
Wal-ler (2006) cites the need to develop augmentativeand alternative communication systems for peoplewith complex communication needs (CCN) to en-gage in conversational narrative.
One assistivesoftware package, Talk:About, enables someonewith CCN to edit pre-stored text during a conversa-tion, enabling the user to retell autobiographicalstories.
Phototalk (Allen et al 2008) allows peoplewith aphasia to manage personal photographs tosupport face-to-face communication.
Non-technology-based reminiscence therapy has beenused in dementia care (Hsieh 2003; Woods et al2005) and gerontological nursing (Burnside 1996).CIRCA is a computer system that people with de-mentia and caregivers can use together to promptreminiscing by providing multimedia stimuli (Almet al 2007).
CIRCA provides touch-screen accessto hypermedia presenting non-personalized remi-niscence materials (e.g., photographs and music ofa certain era).
In a controlled study, CIRCA wascompared to traditional reminiscence (TRAD) ses-sions with materials provided by caregivers (Astellet al 2010).
In TRAD sessions, ?the caregiversworked very hard to keep the interaction going,particularly by asking lots of questions.
These weretypically closed questions ?
that did not encour-age either initiation or choosing [topics] by peoplewith dementia ?
caregivers offer more choice dur-ing CIRCA sessions and are much more likely toencourage the people with dementia to decide whatthey want to look at and talk about?
(p. 7).Baecker and colleagues (Cohene et al 2005; Mas-simi et al 2008; Smith et al 2009; Damianakis etal.
2010) have been investigating creation and useof personalized DVD-based multimedia biog-raphies by persons with AD and mild cognitiveimpairments.
These researchers note that organiza-tions such as the National Institutes of Health rec-ommend creation of personal reminiscence aidssuch as photographs to help maintain the affectedindividual?s sense of identity (Smith et al 2009).
?The loss of identity is among the most devastatingeffects of Alzheimer?s disease ?
it is possible thatsensitively designed technologies may help com-pensate for identity loss by acting as externalmemory or conversational aids?
(Massimi et al2008).
Roark et al (2011) report on an initialstudy of technology-assisted co-construction.However, their emphasis is very different fromours and is focused on assisting with word andphrase completion of general conversation involv-ing typewritten communication.2.3 Narrative TechnologyCassell?s research group has focused on systemsthat interact with human storytellers.
In Grand-Chair, an embodied conversational agent (ECA)portrays a grandchild who elicits autobiographicalstories from elderly users by providing feedback(through speech recognition technology) while thestories are recorded (Smith 2000).
Story ListeningSystems (SLS) use technology to encourage youngchildren to create personally relevant stories in or-der to improve their oral linguistic skills (Cassell2004).
Sam the CastleMate (Ryokai, Vaucelle, &Cassell 2003) is an SLS in which SAM, an ECA,listens to the child?s stories (also using speechrecognition technology) and tells stories to thechild.
Natural language processing and statisticalmachine learning tools have been applied to theproblem of automatic plot analysis of children?sstories (Halpin et al 2004; Passonneau et al 2007)and to creation of story understanding tools (Elsonand McKeown 2009).Other researchers have focused on story genera-tion.
Narrative scholars distinguish the fabula ?events in a fictional world ?
and sujhet ?
the au-thor?s choices in presentation of selected elementsof the fabula.
(Note that in our future ASSIST sys-tem, the fabula is already established when the us-er?s stories are collected; the role of ASSIST is tofacilitate the retelling, i.e., the sujhet.)
Most pastnatural language generation research in narrativehas focused on prose rather than dialogue (Calla-way 2000; Theune et al 2007; Herv?s et al 2006).Piwek and Stoyanchev (2010) have investigatedautomatically transforming human-authored narra-tive prose into dialogue performed by virtual char-acters as a way of presenting educationalinformation.393 Corpus AnalysisMost previous computationally-oriented re-search on human-human dialogue has focused ontask-driven dialogue, i.e., dialogue intended toachieve an agent?s (or agents?
collaborative) taskgoals such as making a travel reservation.
In con-trast, ASSIST is modeling social conversation con-taining co-constructed narrative.
That is, throughcertain conversational moves one participant (theFacilitator) can enable the other participant (theStoryteller) to retell short autobiographical stories,despite the Storyteller?s language and memoryproblems associated with DAT.
The model will beinformed by interdisciplinary research on retainedlanguage competencies of speakers with DAT(Davis 2005; Guendouzi and Muller 2006), as wellas by our own statistical and qualitative analyses ofthe Carolina Conversations Collection (CCC) Cor-pus (Davis and Pope 2009; Pope and Davis 2011).The CCC corpus includes 400 recorded and tran-scribed conversations between researchers and stu-dents and 125 persons with DAT.
Our model willbe constructed by annotating and analyzing a set ofthe DAT conversations as described in more detailin Section 4.
The overall goal is to analyze the ef-ficacy of narrative co-construction and other com-munication-enhancing techniques proposed inprevious studies of language of persons with DAT(e.g., Ripich and Wykle, 1996; Ramanathan 1997;Moore and Davis 2002; Santo Pietro and Ostuni,2003) and to possibly identify other effective tech-niques.
As context for discussion of the necessaryanalysis of the CCC, we will first present a high-level description of the necessary system architec-ture.4 System ArchitectureThe ASSIST architecture is shown in Figure 2.While a Storyteller and Facilitator converse,ASSIST listens with the goals of detecting poten-tial problems in the flow of conversation and ofproviding suggestions to the Facilitator on what tosay next to co-construct the narrative and sustainconversation.
The tasks of the NLU componentinclude syntactic and semantic interpretation andreference resolution; note that these tasks may re-quire use of biographical information about theStoryteller to help interpret disfluencies character-istic of AD language.
Another key task of NLU isto recognize the Facilitator?s use of grounding acts,which play a key role in narrative co-constructionand in sustaining conversation in general.
One ofthe Dialogue/Story Manager?s tasks is to recog-nize the conversational goals of the Storyteller?scontributions, including narrative goals.
Havingrecognized the Storyteller?s current goal, the othertask of the Dialogue Manager is to plan the nextdialogue act that the Facilitator could use to con-tinue to co-construct the Storyteller?s narrative.The Dialogue Manager may use biographical in-formation about the Storyteller in both tasks, i.e.,to help recognize narrative goals and to select con-tent when planning the next suggested narrativeact.
The NLG/Coach component is responsiblefor providing the Facilitator with one or more sug-gested utterances that the Facilitator could saynext.
Based upon the current discourse state, thesuggested dialogue acts provided by the Dia-logue/Story Manager, and a coaching model, theNLG/Coach component chooses one or more Fa-cilitator acts and realizes them.
In the remainder ofthis section we will describe the required analysesof the corpus needed to inform the development ofthe computational model for each of these mainarchitectural components.Figure 2.
ASSIST system architecture.4.1 Dialogue/Story ManagerPart of the CCC corpus study will analyze narra-tive features of the dialogue and related pragmaticand affective features.
Coelho (1998) surveys vari-StorytellerASRDiscourseStateBiographical Info:People, relation-ships, major eventsNLUDialogue/StoryManagerNLG/CoachFacilitator40ous approaches to narrative analysis in discourse ofcommunicatively impaired adults.
Our analysiswill reflect the following characteristics of conver-sational narrative identified in narrative studies(Georgakopoulou and Goutsos 1997; Polkinghorne1996):?
Conversational narratives have a characteristicstructure, consisting of an abstract, orientation,one or more complicating actions, resolution,evaluation, and coda (Labov 1972).
Note thatonly the complicating action and resolution arerequired.
We will annotate this structure, asshown in Figure 1.?
They often convey the teller?s attitudes andfeelings about narrated events, i.e., althoughnot required the evaluation is often present.Furthermore, the objective truth of the eventsis not important.
We will also annotate polarityand intensity of the evaluation (Wiebe et al2005).?
Conversational narrative is context-dependent,i.e., dependent upon the audience and the sit-uation in which it is told.
We will also annotatefeatures of the social context such as the age,gender, and relationship of the conversationalparticipants.?
There are culture-specific properties that makea story tellable.
We will annotate the recurrentcultural themes in the corpus informed by pre-vious studies of narrative themes as in, e.g.,(Polanyi 1985; Shenk et al 2002).Although the above characteristics were derivedfrom studies of narrative in other populations thanin speakers with DAT, there is preliminary evi-dence of their applicability to ASSIST.
For exam-ple, by examining retellings of the same storiesover time, Davis and Maclagan (2009) found that?With AD story-tellers, components vanish fromsurface retellings, particularly the ab-stract/orientation.
Instead, the listener is presentedwith parts of the story?s complicating action or anevaluative comment that includes a fragment of thecomplication and its result?
; yet, ?even when fullstories are not retrieved ?
the emotion is still con-veyed to the listener?
(p. 152).
Comparing life-history narratives of two rural American olderwomen, one with dementia and one without, Shenket al (2002, p. 410) found similar ?major themesthat are consistent with rural American culturalvalues?, e.g., strong family ties, hard work, andreligious faith.Based on analysis of the stories in the CCC, weplan to define a set of abstract narrative schemas.A schema will include constraints on tellabilitywith respect to audience characteristics (e.g., age,gender, social relationship) and current topic, and aspecification of narrative goals (e.g.
present theStoryteller as having been hard-working andthrifty).
Each schema will be structured accordingto Labov?s elements of a well-formed narrative.The schemas will be derived by analysis of theCCC corpus and informed by previous studies ofnarrative themes.In addition to analysis of features suggested byprevious narrative studies, we will analyze occur-rences of pragmatic features that may be used by aspeaker with DAT to compensate for difficultieswhen telling a story.
For example, Davis andMaclagan (2009) studied both  how use of unfilledpauses and pauses with fillers (e.g., ?oh?, ?um?, ora formulaic phrase) changed over time in DATdiscourse, and also the placement of filled and un-filled pauses with respect to narrative components.Pauses in earlier stages of DAT correlated withword-finding problems, while pauses in later stag-es marked narrative components.
Thus, Davis andMaclagan hypothesize that pauses in the later stag-es correlate with search for the next component ofthe story.
Also, the Facilitator?s contribution to theco-constructed narrative will be analyzed, e.g.,when the Facilitator invites the Storyteller to begina particular story and responds appropriately to anelement supplied by the Storyteller.
Developmentof the computational model for the Dia-logue/StoryManager requires consideration of boththe narrative structure and these related pragmaticand affective features.4.2 Natural Language Understanding (NLU)A skilled Facilitator tries to anticipate the kinds ofproblems that a Storyteller with DAT might havein a conversation and provide appropriate supportso that the frequency and severity of DAT-relateddisfluencies will be reduced.
In the event that adisfluency does occur, the Facilitator tries to pro-vide support either by trying to resolve the particu-lar kind of disfluency via a direct or indirect repair41or by trying to advance the story without necessari-ly resolving the disfluency.
Therefore, in order forASSIST to facilitate conversation between a Story-teller and his or her conversational partner, theNLU module must be able to listen to a conversa-tion and be able to determine the following: (1)How fluent was the Storyteller in the prior utter-ances?
(2) If the Storyteller exhibited any issueswith fluency, what was the nature of the problems?
(3) What conversational strategies did the Facilita-tor use to help alleviate issues related to fluency, ifany, before, during or after the Storyteller?s utter-ances?
Addressing these questions requires ananalysis of the Carolina Conversations Collection(CCC) as discussed below.FluencyConsiderable research has investigated the lan-guage of individuals with DAT (Bucks et al 2000;Martin and Fedio 1983; Phillips et al 1996; Sabat1994).
Linguistic features such as long pauses, re-starts, repetitions, unfinished sentences, pronomi-nal reference mistakes, and filler phrases areprevalent in the spontaneous speech of personswith DAT.
Further, research has shown deviationsfrom the norm in syntactic measurements such aspart-of-speech rates (nouns, verbs, adjectives, pro-nouns), richness of vocabulary (Type Token Ratio,Brunet?s Index, Honore?s Statistic), and semanticcohesion in text (Singh and Bookless 1997).
It isnecessary to analyze the CCC corpus to determinethe statistical prevalence of these phenomena with-in the corpus with a goal of making predictionsabout the relative fluency of an utterance based onthe presence or dearth of these measurements.Conversational Repair StrategiesOnce we have a calculation for the level of fluencyof each turn that a person with DAT (the Storytell-er) takes in the dialog, we can then look at the sur-rounding behavior of the Facilitator.
One of ourhypotheses is that there are certain strategies thatwill be beneficial in increasing the fluency of DATutterances.
For example, narrative co-constructiontechniques recommended for caregivers of personswith DAT (Moore and Davis 2002) will be anno-tated in the corpus, including two-syllable go-ahead phrases (e.g., ?uh huh?, ?really?, ?ok?
), par-aphrases and repetitions, and indirect questions.Most of these strategies can be described asFigure 3.
An excerpt from Davis (2005, p. 141) of aconversation between GM, a person with early moderateDAT, and her skilled conversational partner BD.grounding acts (Clark and Schaefer 1989).
Thefollowing seven types of grounding acts occur inco-constructed narratives:?
Continued attention.
These utterances, suchas ?That?s right?
(line 2 in Figure 1), indicatethat the listener is paying attention to thespeaker.?
Relevant next contribution.
By these utter-ances, which we call forward groundingmoves, the conversational participant contin-ues the conversation with a question or com-ment that requires that he or she understoodthe previous speaker?s utterance (e.g.
lines 2,4, and 8 in Figure 3).?
Acknowledgement.
In addition to showingcontinued attention, these utterances providean assessment, e.g.
?wow?
(line 11 in Figure1).?
Demonstration.
The conversational partici-pant paraphrases a previous utterance of hisown or of the other participants (e.g.
line 4 ofFig.
3).?
Display.
The listener repeats all or part of theprevious utterance verbatim (e.g.
line 6 in Fig-ure 3).1.
BD:  You were telling me about your hus-band.2.
Did he preach sermons?3.
GM:  My husband?4.
BD: Would he be a preacher?5.
GM: Yes.
He was a preacher that preached?hell hot and heaven beautiful!?
(They both laugh.)6.
BD: Heaven beautiful ?7.
GM:  Yes.
?Hell hot and heaven beautiful!
?That was one of his messages.
I don?tknow?
he preached all right.
He wasan Evangelistic-type preacher.8.
BD: I bet you went many places!9.
GM: Well, I had my family while I wasyoung and couldn?t go.
I mean ?
you can?tgo with a bunch of little kids.10.
BD: No you can?t.42?
Completion.
The conversational participantcompletes the utterance of the previous speak-er.?
Request for repair.
The listener indicates thathe or she did not understand all or part of theprevious utterance (e.g.
line 3 in Figure 3).The first five types are described in Clark andSchaefer (1989) while Completion and Request forRepair have been described in Traum (1994) andelsewhere.
Of particular importance is the use ofthe Relevant next contribution or forward ground-ing move.
Persons with DAT have difficulty withlexical retrieval and other memory tasks associatedwith generating language (Martin and Fedio 1983).An effective Facilitator will provide lexical prim-ing and syntactic structures to help these memorytasks (Ramanathan 1997; Orange 2001).Unlike previous research on techniques for auto-matic grading of children?s written stories (e.g.Halpin et al 2004), the contributions of the partnerwith DAT will not necessarily be counted as dis-fluent when details are missing, incorrect, or pre-sented out of temporal sequence.
As discussed pre-viously, in conversation with people with DATnarrative elements are often missing and a narra-tive may consist of as little as a fragment of thecomplicating action and the evaluation.
The Facili-tator?s role is not to correct inaccuracies, to de-mand clarification, or to tell the story for theStoryteller.
For example, suppose the Storytellersaid, "I uh used to have a farm there."
Suppose thatthe word "there" is not something that the Facilita-tor can resolve based on the context of the conver-sation.
So, from the Facilitator's point of view, tounderstand the story better, it might make sense toresolve the word "there" by asking, "Where wasyour farm?"
However, a more appropriate responsewould be a grounding move that prompts the con-tinuation of the story without asking a wh-question: "Really?
You were a farmer?
"By analyzing the CCC corpus, we can determinethe prevalence of the above grounding actions bythe Facilitator.
Based on the fluency of the Story-teller?s subsequent utterances, we can determinethe relative effectiveness of these strategies on in-creasing or decreasing Storyteller fluency.
Thisanalysis can be further refined by examining thetypes of disfluency exhibited by the Storytellerbefore and after these grounding actions.
In turn,this data can be used to make predictions aboutwhat repair strategies a conversational participantmight use in response to a particular type of disflu-ent utterance.
Based on the analysis techniquespresented in Cherney et.
al.
(1998), we will be ableto examine the extent to which greater fluency inthe Storyteller utterances leads to more completeand coherent narrative.
This anaylsis is also usedin the development of the NLG/Coach module asdescribed below.4.3 NLG/CoachBased upon the current discourse state and thesuggested dialogue acts provided by the Dia-logue/Story Manager, the NLG/Coach componentmust choose one or more Facilitator acts and real-ize them.
The coaching model will be based uponempirical studies of the CCC of effective repairstrategies for conversing with persons with AD, aswell as a study of particular syntactic forms usedwith specific strategies.
This analysis makes greatuse of the necessary analysis about fluency andespecially conversational repair strategies de-scribed in the previous section about NLU.5 SummaryCo-constructed narrative between a person withDAT, and a skilled conversational partner offers ameans by which persons with DAT and their care-givers may improve their social interaction and lifesatisfaction.
Assistive technology can play a rolein enabling even an unskilled conversational part-ner in maintaining the flow of the conversation.This paper presents an architecture for such a sys-tem, ASSIST, and describes how analysis of anexisting corpus, the Carolinas Conversation Col-lection (CCC), can inform the development of thecomputational model for co-constructed narrativein ASSIST.
We have begun preliminary analysisof excerpts from the CCC.AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully acknowledge many years of encour-agement and guidance from Dr. Boyd Davis, UNCCharlotte.43ReferencesAllen, M., McGrenere, J., and Purves, B.
(2008).
TheField Evaluation of a Mobile Digital Image Communi-cation Application Designed for People with Aphasia.ACM Transactions on Accessible Computing, Vol.
1,No.
1, Article 5.Alm N., Dye, R., Gowans, G., Campbell, J., Astell, A.and Ellis, M. (2007).
A communication support systemfor older people with dementia.
IEEE Computer, May2007: 35-41.Alzheimer?s Association.
(2009).
2009 Alzheimer?sDisease Facts and Figures.
Downloaded on 4/30/09from www.alz.org.Astell, A.J.
et al (2010).
Using a touch screen computerto support relationships between people with dementiaand caregivers.
Interacting with Computers.Bamberg, M. and Georgakopoulou, A.
(2008).
Smallstories as a new perspective in narrative and identityanalysis.
Text and Talk 28(3): 377-396.Bourgeois, M.S., Dijkstra, K., Burgio, L.D., and Allen,R.S.
(2004).
Communication Skills Training for Nurs-ing Aides of Residents with Dementia: The Impact ofMeasuring Performance.
Clinical Gerontologist, Vol.27(1/2) 2004, 119-138.Bucks, R., Singh, S., Cuerden, J.M., and G.
Wilcock.(2000).
Analysis of spontaneous, conversational speechin dementia of Alzheimer type: Evaluation of an objec-tive technique for analyzing lexical performance, Apha-siology, vol.
14, no.
1, pp.
71-91.Burgio, L.D., Allen-Burge, R., Roth, D.L., Bourgeois,M.S., Dijkstra, K., Gerstle, J., Jackson, E. and Bankes-ter, L. (2001).
Come talk with me: Improving commu-nication between nursing assistants and nursing homeresidents during care routines.
The Gerontologist 41:449-460.Burnside, I.
(1996).
Life Review and Reminiscence inNursing Practice.
In Aging and Biography: Explorationsin Adult Development, Birren et al (Eds.
), Springer.Callaway, C. (2000).
Narrative Prose Generation.
Ph.D.thesis, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC.Cassell, J.
(2004).
Towards a model of technology andliteracy development: Story listening systems.
AppliedDevelopmental Psychology 25: 75-105.Cheepen, C. (1988).
The predictability of informal con-versation.
Oxford: Printer Publishers Ltd.Cherney, L.R., Shadden, B.B., and Coelho, C.A.
(1998).Analyzing Discourse in Communicatively ImpairedAdults.
Aspen Publishers, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland.Clark, H. H. and Schaefer, E.F..
Contributing to dis-course.
(1989).
Cognitive Science, 13:259?294.Coelho, C.A.
(1998).
Analysis of Story Grammar.
InCherney, L.R., Shadden, B.B., and Coelho, C.A.
Ana-lyzing Discourse in Communicatively Impaired Adults.Aspen Publishers, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland.Cohene, T., Baecker, R., and Marziali, E.  DesigningInteractive Life Story Multimedia for a Family Affectedby Alzheimer?s Disease: A Case Study.
CHI 2005, April2?7, 2005, Portland, Oregon, USA., p.1300-1303.Cosley, D., Akey, K., Alson, B., Baxter, J., Broomfield,M., Lee, S., and Sarabu, C. (2009).
Using Technologiesto Support Reminiscence.
HCI 2009 ?
People and Com-puters XXIII ?
Celebrating people and technology, 480-484Damianakis, T., Crete-Nishihata, Smith, K., Baecker,R.M., and Marziali, E. (2010).
The psychosocial im-pacts of multimedia biographies on persons with cogni-tive impairments.
The Gerontologist 50(1): 23-35.Davis, B.H.
(Ed.)
(2005).
Alzheimer talk, text and con-text: Enhancing communication.
New York: PalgraveMacmillan.Davis, B.H.
(2010).
Intentional stance and LucindaGreystone.
In V. Ramanathan and P. McPherron, eds.Language, Bodies and Health.
NY: Continuum.Davis, B.H.
and Maclagan, M. (2009).
Examining paus-es in Alzheimer?s discourse.
American Journal of Alz-heimer?s Disease and Other Dementias 24, 141-154.Davis, B.H.
and Pope, C. (2009).
Institutionalizedghosting: policy contexts and language use in erasingthe person with Alzheimer?s.
Language Policy.
OnlineFirst DOI 10.1007/s10993-009-9153-8.Davis, B.H.
and Smith, M. (2009).
Infusing culturalcompetence training into the curriculum: Describing thedevelopment of culturally sensitive dementia care com-munication.
Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences 25,503-510.Dijkstra, K., Bourgeois, M., Allen, R.,  and Burgio, L.(2004).
Conversational coherence: discourse analysis of44older adults with and without dementia.
Journal of Neu-rolinguistics 17: 263-283.Elson, D.K.
and McKeown, K.R.
(2009).
Extending andEvaluating a Platform for Story Understanding.
AAAI2009 Spring Symposium on Intelligent Narrative Tech-nologies II.Georgakopoulou, A. and Goutsos, D. (1997).
DiscourseAnalysis: An Introduction.
Edinburgh: Edinburgh Uni-versity Press.Green, N. (2002).
A Virtual World for Coaching Care-givers of Persons with Alzheimer's Disease.
Papersfrom the AAAI Workshop on Automation as Caregiver:The Role of Intelligent Technology in Elder Care.AAAI Press, Menlo Park, CA, pp.
18-23.Green, N. (2005).
Simulating Alzheimer's discourse forcaregiver training in artificial intelligence-based dia-logue systems.
In Davis, Boyd H.
(ed.).
Alzheimer talk,text and context: enhancing communication.
New York,NY: Palgrave Macmillan, 2005, 199-207.Green, N and Bevan, C. (2009).
Efficacy of Active Par-ticipation in  Conversation with a Virtual Patient withAlzheimer's Disease.
Papers from 2009 AAAI FallSymposium: Virtual Healthcare Interaction, Arlington,Virginia from November 5- 7,2009.Green, N. and B. Davis.
(2003).
Dialogue Generation inan Assistive Conversation Skills Training System  forCaregivers of Persons with Alzheimer's Disease.
In Pa-pers from the 2003 AAAI  Spring Symposium on Natu-ral Language Generation in Spoken and WrittenDialogue, pp.
36-43.Green, N, Lawton, W., and Davis, B.
(2004).
An Assis-tive Conversation Skills Training System for Caregiversof Persons with Alzheimer's Disease.
In Proceedings ofthe AAAI 2004 Fall Symposium on Dialogue Systems forHealth Communication.Guendouzi, J. and Muller, N. (2006).
Approaches todiscourse in dementia.
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erl-baum.Halpin, H., Moore, J.D., and Robertson,J.
(2004).
Au-tomatic Analysis of Plot for Story Rewriting.
Proceed-ings of Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing.Herv?s, R., Pereira, F., Gerv?s, P., andCardoso, A.
(2006) Cross-domain analogy in automated text genera-tion, Proc.
of the Third joint workshop on Computation-al Creativity, ECAI?06, Trento, Italy.Hsieh, H.F. Effect of reminiscence therapy on depres-sion in older adults: a systematic review.
(2003).
Inter-national Journal of Nursing Studies, 40(4):335?345.Irvine, A.B., Ary, D.V., and Bourgeois, M.S.
(2003).
AnInteractive Multimedia Program to Train ProfessionalCaregivers.
Journal of Applied Gerontology 22(2), June2003, 269-288.Labov, W. (1972).
Language in the inner city.
Philadel-phia: University of Pennsylvania Press.Lenchuk, I. and M. Swain.
(2010).
Alise?s small stories:indices of identity construction and of resistance to thediscourse of cognitive impairment.
Language Policy : 9-28.Martin, A. and P. Fedio, (1983).
Word production andcomprehension in Alzheimer's disease: The breakdownof semantic knowledge, Brain and Language, Volume19, Issue 1, May 1983, Pages 124-141.Massimi, M., Berry, E., Browne, G., Smyth, G., Wat-son, P., and Baecker, R. M. (2008).
NeuropsychologicalRehabilitation 18(5-6): 742-765.McCallion, P., Toseland, R.W., Lacey, D., and  Banks,S.
(1999).
Educating nursing assistants to communicatemore effectively with nursing home residents with de-mentia.
The Gerontologist 39(5): 546-558.Moore, L. & B. Davis.
(2002) Quilting narrative: usingrepetition techniques to help elderly communicators.Geriatric Nursing, 23(5):262-6.Orange, J.
B.
(2001).
Family caregivers, communica-tion, and Alzheimer's disease.
In M. L. Hummert & J. F.Nussbaum (Eds.
), Aging communication, and health:Linking research and practice for successful aging (pp.225-248).
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Eribaum Associates,Inc.Passonneau,R., Goodkind, A., and Levy, E. (2007).
An-notation of children?s oral narrations: Modeling emer-gent narrative skills for computational applications.Proceedings of the 20th Annual Meeting of the FloridaArtificial Intelligence Research Society (FLAIRS-20).Petrelli, D., van den Hoven, E., and Whittaker, S.(2009).
Making history: Intentional capture of futurememories.
CHI 2009, April 4-9, 2009, Boston, MA.
pp.1723-1732.Phillips, L., Sala, S.D.
and C. Trivelli.
(1996).
Fluencydeficits in patients with Alzheimer's disease and frontal45lobe lesions, European Journal of Neurology, vol.
3, pp.102.108.Piwek, P. and S. Stoyanchev (2010).
Generating Ex-pository Dialogue from Monologue: Motivation, Corpusand Preliminary Rules.
NAACL HLT 2010.Polanyi , L. (1985).
Telling the American Story: AStructural and Cultural Analysis of Conversational Sto-rytelling.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.Polkinghorne, D.E.
(1996).
Narrative Knowing and theStudy of Lives.
In Aging and biography: explorations inadult development, Birren, J.E., Kenyon, G.M., Ruth, J.,Schroots, J.J.F., and Svensson, T.
(Eds.
), Springer.Pope, C. and Davis, B.H.
(2011).
Finding a balance:The Carolinas Conversation Collection.
Corpus Linguis-tics and Linguistic Theory 7-1, 143-161.Ramanathan V. (1997).
Alzheimer Discourse: SomeSociolinguistic Dimensions.
Mahwah, NJ: LawrenceErlbaum.Ripich, D.N., Ziol, E., and Lee, M.M.
(1998).
Longitu-dinal Effects of Communication Training on Caregiversof Persons with Alzheimer's Disease.
Clinical Geron-tologist 19(2): 37-55.Roark, B., Fowler, A., Sproat, R., Gibbons, C., andFried-Oken, M. 2011.
Towards technology-assisted co-construction with communication partners.
Proceedingsof the 2nd Workshop on Speech and Language Pro-cessing for Assistive Technologies.
pp.
22-31.Ryokai, K., Vaucelle, C. and Cassell, J.
2003.
Virtualpeers as partners in storytelling and literacy learning.Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, 19(2), 195-208.Sabat, S. (1994).
Language function in Alzheimer's dis-ease: a critical review of selected literature, Languageand Communication, vol.
14, pp.
331-351.Santo Pietro, Mary Jo and Ostuni, Elizabeth.
(2003).Successful Communication with Persons with Alz-heimer?s Disease, An In-Service Manual, 2nd ed., But-terworth Heinemann, St. Louis, Missouri.Shenk, D., Davis, B., Peacock, J. and  L.
Moore.(2002).
Narratives and self-identity in later life: Tworural American older women, Journal of Aging Studies,Volume 16, Issue 4, November 2002, Pages 401-413.Singh, S. and T. Bookless.
(1997).Analyzing Spontane-ous Speech in Dysphasic Adults, International Journalof Applied Linguistics, vol.
7.2, no.
2, pp.
165-182.Smith, J.
(2000).
GrandChair: Conversational collec-tion of family stories.
Media Arts and Sciences.
Un-published master?s thesis, MIT, Cambridge, MA.Smith, K.L., Crete-Nishihata, M., Damianakis, T.,Baecker,R.M., and Marziali, E. (2009).
Multimediabiographies: a reminiscence and social stimulus tool forpersons with cognitive impairment.
Journal ofTechnology in Human Services, 27(4): 287-306.Smith, M., Davis B., et al (2010).
Twelve importantminutes: Introducing enhanced online materials aboutelder abuse to Nursing Assistants.
Journal ofContinuing Education for Nursing.Theune, M., Slabbers, N., and Hielkema, F. (2007).
TheNarrator: NLG for digital storytelling.
Proc ENLG 07,109-112.Traum, D. R.  (1994).
A Computational Theory ofGrounding in Natural Language Conversation.
PhDthesis, Department of Computer Science, University ofRochester, Also available as TR 545, Department ofComputer Science, University of Rochester.Waller, A.
(2006).
Communication Access to Conversa-tional Narrative.
Topics in Language Disorders 26(3):221-239.Wiebe, J., Wilson, T., and Cardie, C. (2005).
Annotat-ing expressions of opinions and emotions in language,Language Resources and Evaluation, 1(2): 165-210.Woods, B., Spector, A., Jones, C.,  Orrell,M., and Da-vies, S. (2005).
Reminiscence therapy for demen-tia.Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews.46
