NAACL-HLT 2012 Workshop on Future directions and needs in the Spoken Dialog Community: Tools and Data, pages 1?2,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsUp from Limited Dialog Systems!Giuseppe RiccardiUniversity of Trentovia Sommarive, 1438050, Trento, Italyriccardi@disi.unitn.itPhilipp CimianoBielefeld UniversityUniversita?tsstra?e 21?2333615, Bielefeld, Germanycimiano@cit-ec.uni-bielefeld.deAlexandros PotamianosTechnical University of Crete73100, ChaniaCrete, Greecepotam@telecom.tuc.grChristina UngerBielefeld UniversityUniversita?tsstra?e 21?2333615, Bielefeld, Germanycunger@cit-ec.uni-bielefeld.deAbstractIn the last two decades, information-seekingspoken dialog systems (SDS) have movedfrom research prototypes to real-life commer-cial applications.
Still, dialog systems are lim-ited by the scale, complexity of the task andcoverage of knowledge required by problem-solving machines or mobile personal assis-tants.
Future spoken interaction are requiredto be multilingual, understand and act on largescale knowledge bases in all its forms (fromstructured to unstructured).
The Web re-search community have striven to build largescale and open multilingual resources (e.g.Wikipedia) and knowledge bases (e.g.
Yago).We argue that a) it is crucial to leveragethis massive amount of Web lightly structuredknowledge and b) the scale issue can be ad-dressed collaboratively and design open stan-dards to make tools and resources available tothe whole speech and language community.1 IntroductionIn the last two decades, interactive spoken dialogsystems (SDS) have moved from research proto-types to real-life commercial applications (Tur andDe Mori, 2011).
Generally, SDS are built for aspecific task (e.g.
call routing) with ad-hoc lim-ited knowledge base and for a predefined target lan-guage.
However, one major limitation in commer-cial SDS prototyping is that they are not easily andquickly extensible and portable to new domains orlanguages.
Such porting requirements range fromdefining (or extending) a domain ontology to hand-crafting a new grammar or training stochastic mod-els for speech recognition and understanding.
Theseare the research and engineering goals motivatingthe PortDial project whose objectives include theengagement of the whole technical community.
Inthe PortDial project we would like to engage re-searchers in building resources that may be gener-ated via top-down processes (grammars), bottom-upprocesses (statistical models) or via a fusion of both.In this position paper we want to address the crit-ical limitations of SDS systems: a) poor ability tocover the knowledge space and its interface to theSDS components (speech recognition, language un-derstanding and dialog manager) and b) collabora-tively design open standards to make tools and re-sources available to the whole speech and languagecommunity.2 Exploiting top-down knowledgeThere are at least three main kinds of structuredknowledge sources that SDS modules may ex-ploit: ontologies, grammars, and lexica.
Ontolo-gies explicitly model background knowledge abouta certain domain.
In the last years, many freeand open collaboratively created resources haveemerged, including large multi-lingual corpora suchas Wikipedia, and broad-coverage ontologies, e.g.as part of the Linked Data Cloud (Bizer et al, 2009),either created manually or extracted automaticallyfrom existing data (such as DBpedia or Yago).
How-ever, while also lexica such as Wiktionary are avail-able today on the Web, ontologies typically lack in-formation about linguistic realization.
For this rea-son, ontologies available on the Web are not di-rectly exploitable by dialog systems.
Linguistic in-1formation is commonly captured in grammars, thatare either hand-crafted or created by means of ma-chine learning techniques.
In order to be able togenerate high-quality grammars with as little man-ual effort as possible, we aim at (semi) automat-ing the knowledge-based generation of lexica andgrammars.
To achieve this, it is crucial to lever-age Web resources for enriching ontologies withlexical and linguistic information, i.e.
informa-tion about how ontological concepts are lexicalizedin different languages, capturing in particular lex-ical and syntactic variation (Unger et al, 2010).This knowledge-centered grammar generation pro-cess may be merged with methods for automaticallyinferring structure from lightly annotated corpus, in-cluding data harvested from the Web, in a bottom-up fashion (Tur and De Mori, 2011).
For a dialogsystem to be able to exploit ontologies, lexica andgrammars, these three resources need to be tightlyaligned, i.e.
they need to share domain-relevant vo-cabulary.
For this alignment, we propose to build onSemantic Web standards, mainly in order to supportthe incorporation of already existing data, to shareresources for SDS engineering, and facilitate collab-orative knowledge engineering.
From a larger per-spective, such an approach has the potential of cre-ating SDS resources (ontologies, lexica and gram-mars) that are strongly aligned with each other aswell as with other resources available on the Web,thus fostering the creation of an eco-system of linkedresources that can be reused to facilitate the processof engineering and porting a dialog system to newdomains and languages.3 Collaboratively building and sharingknowledgeToday the lack of reusable linguistic resources andannotated data hinders the rapid development ofspoken dialog systems in industry and academiaalike.
Despite progress in standardization of theformat of SDS grammars and semantic represen-tations, the data proper has to be hand-crafted fornew applications and languages with little or no au-tomation available.
We argue above that languageengineering technology is now mature to help cre-ate such linguistic resources automatically or semi-automatically using data that is either harvestedfrom the web or via community crowdsourcing us-ing the ?collective wisdom of expert crowds?.
Al-though providing linguistic resources and tools forcost-effective SDS development is important andrelevant, a data pool that is not openly sharable andcontinuously enriched fails its purpose.
It is thus im-portant to guarantee the sustainability of the linguis-tic SDS resources engineered via a community thatboth uses and actively develops the data pool.
To-wards this end, we envision both a free and premiumdata exchange targeting non-commercial users thatcan maintain and enrich the free version of the datapool, and commercial speech services developersthat can contribute to the premium data pool viaan electronic marketplace.
This is the model weare launching within the EC-funded PortDial projectand aiming at involving the research community atlarge and existing communities for sharing linguisticresources, such as METANET and METASHARE1.We believe that the creation of sharable SDS dataand linguistic resources for both academic and com-mercial use will lead to the democratization of spo-ken dialog systems development, reduce the barrierto entry for new developers, as well as lead to im-proved technologies for authoring speech services.ReferencesC.
Bizer, T. Heath, and T. Berners-Lee.
2009.
Linkeddata-the story so far.
International Journal on Seman-tic Web and Information Systems, 14:9.G.
Tur and R. De Mori, editors.
2011.
Spoken LanguageUnderstanding: Systems for Extracting Semantic In-formation from Speech.
Wiley.Christina Unger, Felix Hieber, and Philipp Cimiano.2010.
Generating LTAG grammars from a lexicon-ontology interface.
In Srinivas Bangalore, RobertFrank, and Maribel Romero, editors, Proceedings ofthe 10th International Workshop on Tree AdjoiningGrammars and Related Formalisms (TAG+10), pages61?68, 06/2010.1http://www.meta-net.eu/meta-share2
