Proceedings of the Workshop on Innovative Hybrid Approaches to the Processing of Textual Data (Hybrid2012), EACL 2012, pages 46?51,Avignon, France, April 23 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsContrasting objective and subjective Portuguese texts fromheterogeneous sourcesMichel Ge?ne?reuxCentro de Lingu?
?stica daUniversidade de Lisboa (CLUL)Av.
Prof. Gama Pinto, 21649-003 Lisboa - Portugalgenereux@clul.ul.ptWilliam MartinezInstituto de Lingu?
?sticaTe?orica e Computacional (ILTEC)Avenida Elias Garcia, 147 - 5?
direito1050-099 Lisboa - Portugalwilliam@iltec.ptAbstractThis paper contrasts the content and formof objective versus subjective texts.
A col-lection of on-line newspaper news itemsserve as objective texts, while parliamen-tary speeches (debates) and blog posts formthe basis of our subjective texts, all inPortuguese.
The aim is to provide gen-eral linguistic patterns as used in objec-tive written media and subjective speechesand blog posts, to help construct domain-independent templates for information ex-traction and opinion mining.
Our hybridapproach combines statistical data alongwith linguistic knowledge to filter out ir-relevant patterns.
As resources for subjec-tive classification are still limited for Por-tuguese, we use a parallel corpus and toolsdeveloped for English to build our sub-jective spoken corpus, through annotationsproduced for English projected onto a par-allel corpus in Portuguese.
A measure forthe saliency of n-grams is used to extractrelevant linguistic patterns deemed ?objec-tive?
and ?subjective?.
Perhaps unsurpris-ingly, our contrastive approach shows that,in Portuguese at least, subjective texts arecharacterized by markers such as descrip-tive, reactive and opinionated terms, whileobjective texts are characterized mainly bythe absence of subjective markers.1 IntroductionDuring the last few years there has been a growinginterest in the automatic extraction of elements re-lated to feelings and emotions in texts, and to pro-vide tools that can be integrated into a more globaltreatment of languages and their subjective aspect.Most research so far has focused on English, andthis is mainly due to the availability of resourcesfor the analysis of subjectivity in this language,such as lexicons and manually annotated corpora.In this paper, we contrast the subjective and theobjective aspects of language for Portuguese.Essentially, our approach will extract linguis-tic patterns (hopefully ?objective?
for newspa-per news items and ?subjective?
for parliamen-tary speeches and blog posts) by comparing fre-quencies against a reference corpus.
Our methodis relevant for hybrid approaches as it combineslinguistic and statistic information.
Our referencecorpus, the Reference Corpus of ContemporaryPortuguese (CRPC)1, is an electronically basedlinguistic corpus of around 310 million tokens,taken by sampling from several types of writtentexts (literature, newspapers, science, economics,law, parliamentary debates, technical and didacticdocuments), pertaining to national and regionalvarieties of Portuguese.
A random selection of10,000 texts from the entire CRPC will be usedfor our experiment.
The experiment flow-chart isshown in Figure 1.
We define as objective shortnews items from newspapers that reports strictlya piece of news, without comments or analysis.
Aselection of blog post items and short verbal ex-changes between member of the European parlia-ment will serve as subjective texts.2 Previous workThe task of extracting linguistic patterns for datamining is not new, albeit most research has sofar dealt with English texts.
Extracting subjec-tive patterns represents a more recent and chal-lenging task.
For example, in the Text Analy-1http://www.clul.ul.pt/en/resources/183-reference-corpus-of-contemporary-portuguese-crpc46ParliamentarySpeeches(subjective)Blog Posts(subjective)News Items(objective)Term andPatternExtractionReferenceCorpus(neutral)PatternsFigure 1: Experiment flow-chart.sis Conference (TAC 2009), it was decided towithdraw the task of creating summaries of opin-ions, present at TAC 2008, the organizers havingagreed on the difficulty of extracting subjective el-ements of a text and organize them appropriatelyto produce a summary.
Yet, there is already somerelevant work in this area which may be men-tioned here.
For opinions, previous studies havemainly focused in the detection and the gradationof their emotional level, and this involves threemain subtasks.
The first subtask is to distinguishsubjective from objectives texts (Yu and Hatzi-vassiloglou, 2003).
The second subtask focuseson the classification of subjective texts into pos-itive or negative (Turney, 2002).
The third levelof refinement is trying to determine the extent towhich texts are positive or negative (Wilson et al,2004).
The momentum for this type of researchcame through events such as TREC Blog Opin-ion Task since 2006.
It is also worth mention-ing recent efforts to reintroduce language and dis-cursive approaches (e.g.
taking into account themodality of the speaker) in this area (Asher andMathieu, 2008).
The approaches developed forautomatic analysis of subjectivity have been usedin a wide variety of applications, such as onlinemonitoring of mood (Lloyd et al, 2005), the clas-sification of opinions or comments (Pang et al,2002) and their extraction (Hu an Liu, 2004) andthe semantic analysis of texts (Esuli and Sebas-tiani, 2006).
In (Mihalcea et al, 2007), a bilinguallexicon and a manually translated parallel corpusare used to generate a sentence classifier accord-ing to their level of subjectivity for Romanian.Although many recent studies in the analysis ofsubjectivity emphasize sentiment (a type of sub-jectivity, positive or negative), our work focuseson the recognition of subjectivity and objectivityin general.
As stressed in some work (Banea etal., 2008), researchers have shown that in senti-ment analysis, an approach in two steps is oftenbeneficial, in which we first distinguish objectivefrom subjective texts, and then classify subjectivetexts depending on their polarity (Kim and Hovy,2006).
In fact, the problem of distinguishing sub-jective versus objective texts has often been themost difficult of the two steps.
Improvements inthe first step will therefore necessarily have a ben-eficial impact on the second, which is also shownin some work (Takamura et al, 2006).3 Creating a corpus of Subjective andObjective Portuguese TextsTo build our subjective spoken corpus (more than2,000 texts), we used a parallel corpus of English-Portuguese speeches2 and a tool to automaticallyclassify sentences in English as objective or sub-jective (OpinionFinder (Riloff et al, 2003)).
Wethen projected the labels obtained for the sen-tences in English on the Portuguese sentences.The original parallel corpus is made of 1,783,437pairs of parallel sentences, and after removingpervasive short sentences (e.g.
?the House ad-journed at ...?)
or pairs of sentences with the ra-tio of their respective lengths far away from one(a sign of alignment or translation error), we areleft with 1,153,875 pairs.
A random selection ofcontiguous 20k pairs is selected for the experi-ment.
The English sentences are submitted toOpinionFinder, which labels each of them as ?un-known?, ?subjective?
or ?objective?.
Opinion-Finder has labelled 11,694 of the 20k sentencesas ?subjective?.
As our experiment aims at com-paring frequencies between texts, we have auto-matically created segments of texts showing lex-ical similarities using Textiling (Hearst, 1997),leading to 2,025 texts.
We haven?t made any at-tempt to improve or evaluate OpinionFinder andTextiling performance.
This strategy is sensibleas parliamentary speeches are a series of shortopinionated interventions by members on specific2European Parliament: http://www.statmt.org/europarl/47themes.
The 11,694 subjective labels have beenprojected on each of the corresponding sentencesof the Portuguese corpus to produce our final spo-ken corpus3.
Note that apart from a bridge (herea parallel corpus) between the source language(here English) and the target language (here Por-tuguese), our approach does not require any man-ual annotation.
Thus, given a bridge betweenEnglish and the target language, this approachcan be applied to other languages.
The consid-erable amount of work involved in the creation ofthese resources for English can therefore serve asa leverage for creating similar resources for otherlanguages.We decided to include a collection of blog postsas an additional source of subjective texts.
Wegathered a corpus of 1,110 blog posts using Boot-Cat4, a tool that allows the harvesting and clean-ing of web pages on the basis of a set of seedterms5.For our treatment of objectivity and how newsare reported in Portuguese newspapers, we havecollected and cleaned a corpus of nearly 1500 ar-ticles from over a dozen major websites (Jornalde Not?
?cias, Destak, Visa?o, A Bola, etc.
).After tokenizing and POS-tagging all sen-tences, we collected all n-grams (n = 1, 2 and3) along with their corresponding frequency foreach corpus (reference (CRPC), objective (newsitems) and subjective (parliamentary speeches andblog posts)), each gram being a combination ofa token with its part-of-speech tag (e.g.
falar V,?speak V?).
The list of POS tags is provided inappendix A.3As our subjective spoken corpus has been built entirelyautomatically (Opinion Finder and Textiling), it is importantto note that (Ge?ne?reux and Poibeau, 2009) have verified thatsuch a corpus correlates well with human judgements.4http://bootcat.sslmit.unibo.it/5In an attempt to collect as much opinionated pages inPortuguese as can be, we constraint BootCat to extract pageswritten in Portuguese from the following web domains:communidades.net, blogspot.com, wordpress.com and myspace.com.
We used the following seedwords, more or less strongly related to the Portuguese cul-ture: ribatejo, camo?es, queijo, vinho, cavaco, europa, sintra,praia, porto, fado, pasteis, bacalhau, lisboa, algarve, alen-tejo and coelho.4 Experiments and Results4.1 POS and n-gramsIn our experiments we have compared all the n-grams (n = 1, 2 and 3) from the objective andsubjective texts with the n-grams from the ref-erence corpus.
This kind of analysis aims es-sentially at the identification of salient expres-sions (with high log-odds ratio scores).
The log-odds ratio method (Baroni and Bernardini, 2004)compares the frequency of occurrence of each n-gram in a specialized corpus (news, parliamen-tary speeches or blogs) to its frequency of oc-currence in a reference corpus (CRPC).
Apply-ing this method solely on POS, we found thatobjective texts used predominantly verbs with anemphasis on past participles (PPT/PPA, adotado,?adopted?
), which is consistent with the natureof reported news.
In general, we observed thatsubjective texts have a higher number of adjec-tives (ADJ, o?timo, ?optimum?
): parliamentaryspeeches also include many infinitives (INF, fe-licitar ?congratulate?
), while blogs make use ofinterjections (ITJ, uau, ?wow?).
Tables 1, 2 and3 show salient expressions for each type of texts.These expressions do not always point to a dis-tinction between subjectivity and objectivity, butalso to topics normally associated with each typeof texts, a situation particularly acute in the caseof parliamentary speeches.
Nevertheless, we canmake some very general observations.
Thereis no clear pattern in news items, except for aslight tendency towards the use of a quantita-tive terminology (?save?, ?spend?).
Parliamen-tary speeches are concerned with societal issues(?socio-economic?, ?biodegradable?)
and formsof politeness (?wish to express/protest?).
In blogposts we find terms related to opinions (?pinchof salt?
), wishes (?I hope you enjoy?
), reactions(?oups?)
and descriptions (?creamy?
).4.2 Patterns around NPsThe n-gram approach can provide interesting pat-terns but it has its limits.
In particular, it does notallow for generalization over larger constituents.One way to overcome this flaw is to chunk cor-pora into noun-phrases (NP).
This is the approachtaken in (Riloff and Wiebe, 2003) for English.
InRiloff and Wiebe (2003), the patterns for Englishinvolved a very detailed linguistic analysis, suchas the detection of grammatical functions as well48PORTUGUESE ENGLISHdetetado PPA ?detected?empatado PPT ?tied?castigado PPT ?punished?ano CN perdido PPA ?lost year?triunfa ADJ ?triumph?recec?a?o CN ?recession?podem V poupar INF ?can save?vai V salvar INF ?will save?deviam V hoje ADV ?must today?ameac?as CN se CL ?threatsconcretizem INF materialize?andam V a DA gastar INF ?go to spend?ano CN de PREP ?year ofdesafios CN challenges?contratac?o?es CN de PREP ?hiring ofpessoal CN staff?Table 1: Salient expressions in news.as active or passive forms.
Without the proper re-sources needed to produce sophisticated linguisticannotations for Portuguese, we decided to sim-plify matters slightly by not making distinctionof grammatical function or voice.
That is, onlyNPs would matter for our analysis.
We used theNP-chunker Yamcha6 trained on 1,000 manuallyannotated (NPs and POS-tags) sentences.
Themain idea here remains the same and is to finda set of syntactic patterns that are relevant to eachgroup of texts, as we did for n-grams previously,each NP becoming a single 1-gram for this pur-pose.
It is worth mentioning that NP-chunkingbecomes particularly challenging in the case ofblogs, which are linguistically heterogeneous andnoisy.
Finally, log-odds ratio once again servesas a discriminative measure to highlight relevantpatterns around NPs.
Tables 4, 5 and 6 illustratesalient expressions from the three specialized cor-pora, presenting some of them in context.Although limited to relatively simple syntacticpatterns, this approach reveals a number of salientlinguistic structures for the subjective texts.
Inparliamentary speeches, forms of politeness areclearly predominant (?ladies and <NP>?, ?thank<NP>?
and ?<NP> wish to thank?).
Unfortu-nately, the patterns extracted from blog posts are6http://chasen.org/?taku/software/yamcha/.
Our evaluation of the trained chunker onPortuguese texts lead to an accuracy of 86% at word level.PORTUGUESE ENGLISHsocioecono?micas ADJ ?socio-economic?biodegradveis ADJ ?biodegradable?infraestrutural ADJ ?infra-structural?base CN jur?
?dica ADJ ?legal basis?estado-membro ADJ ?member state?resoluc?a?o CN ?commoncomun ADJ resolution?gostaria V de PREP ?wish toexpressar INF express?gostaria V de PREP ?wish tomanifestar INF protest?adoptar INF uma UM ?adopt an ?abordagem CN approach?agradecer INF muito ADV ?thank verysinceramente ADV sincerely?comec?ar INF por PREP ?start byfelicitar INF congratulate?senhora CN ?Commissioner?comissa?ria CNsenhora CN deputada CN ?Deputy?quitac?a?o CN ?discharge?governanc?a CN ?governance?Table 2: Salient expressions in parliamentaryspeeches.pervaded by ?boiler-plate?
material that were notfiltered out during the cleaning phase and parasitethe analysis: ?published by <NP>?, ?share on<NP>?
and ?posted by <NP>?.
However, opin-ions (?<NP> is beautiful?)
and opinion primer(?currently, <NP>?)
remain present.
News itemsare still characterized mainly by the absence ofsubjective structures (markers), albeit quantitativeexpressions can still be found (?spent?
).Obviously, a statistical approach yields a cer-tain number of irrelevant (or at best ?counter-intuitive?)
expressions: our results are no excep-tion to this reality.
Clearly, in order to revealinsights or suggest meaningful implications, anexternal (human) evaluation of the patterns pre-sented in this study would paint a clearer pictureof the relevance of our results for information ex-traction and opinion mining, but we think theyconstitute a good starting point.5 Conclusion and Future WorkWe have presented a partly automated approachto extract subjective and objective patterns in se-49PORTUGUESE ENGLISHdireto ADJ ?direct?cremoso ADJ ?creamy?crocante ADJ ?crispy?atuais ADJ ?current?coletiva ADJ ?collective?muito ADV legal ADJ ?very legal?redes CN sociais ADJ ?social networks?ups ITJ ?oups?hum ITJ ?hum?eh ITJ ?eh?atualmente ADV ?currently?atrac?o?es CN ?attractions?tenho V certeza CN ?I am sure?e?
V exatamente ADV ?this is exactly?cafe?
CN da PREP+DA ?morningmanha?
CN coffee?pitada CN de PREP ?pinch ofsal CN salt?espero V que CJ ?I hopegostem INF you enjoy?Table 3: Salient expressions in blogs.lected texts from the European Parliament, blogposts and on-line newspapers in Portuguese.
Ourwork first shows that it is possible to built re-sources for Portuguese using resources (a paral-lel corpus) and tools (OpinionFinder) built for En-glish.
Our experiments also show that, despite oursmall specialised corpora, the resources are goodenough to extract linguistic patterns that give abroad characterization of the language in use forreporting news items and expressing subjectivityin Portuguese.
The approach could be favourablyaugmented with a more thorough cleaning phase,a parsing phase, the inclusion of larger n-grams (n> 3) and manual evaluation.
A fully automateddaily process to collect a large-scale Portuguesepress (including editorials) and blog corpora iscurrently being developed.AcknowledgmentsWe are grateful to Iris Hendrickx from CLUL formaking available the POS-tagger used in our ex-periments.ReferencesAsher N., Benamara F. and Mathieu Y. Distilling opin-ion in discourse: A preliminary study.
In ColingSome NP-patterns in context?
fiquemos V a` PREP+DA <NP>?we are waiting for <NP>?E tambe?m na?o fiquemos a` <espera daOposic?a?o> mais interessada em chegar aoPoder.
?And also we are not waiting for an oppositionmore interested in coming to power.??
revelam V <NP> gasta?mos V?revealed by <NP> we spent?O problema e?
que, como revelam <os dadosda SIBS, na semana do Natal> gasta?mosquase 1300 euros por segundo.
?The problem is that as shown by the data ofSIBS, in the Christmas week we spentnearly 1300 Euros per second.??
<NP> deviam V hoje ADV?<NP> must today?E para evitar males maiores, <todos osportugueses ( ou quase todos )> deviam hojefazer .
.
.
?And to avoid greater evils, all the Portuguese(or almost all) should today make .
.
.Other NP-patterns?
<NP> gosta?mos V quase ADV?<NP> spent almost??
precisa V daqueles PREP+DEM <NP>?need those <NP>?Table 4: NP-patterns in news2008, posters, pages 710, Manchester, UK.Banea C., Mihalcea R., Wiebe J. and Hassan S. Multi-lingual subjectivity analysis using machine transla-tion.
In Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-ural Language Processing (EMNLP 2008), Hon-olulu, Hawaii, October 2008.Baroni M. and Bernardini S. Bootcat : Bootstrappingcorpora and terms from the web.
In Proceedings ofLREC 2004, p. 1313-1316.Esuli A. and Sebastiani F. Determining term subjec-tivity and term orientation for opinion mining.
InEACL 2006.Ge?ne?reux M. and Poibeau T. Approche mixteutilisant des outils et ressources pour l?anglaispour l?identification de fragments textuels subjec-tifs franc?ais.
In DEFT?09, DE?fi Fouilles de Textes,Atelier de clo?ture, Paris, June 22nd, 2009.Hearst M. TextTiling: Segmenting text into multi-paragraph subtopic passages.
In ComputationalLinguistics, pages 33?64, 1997.Hu M. and Liu B.
Mining and summarizing customerreviews.
In ACM SIGKDD.50Some NP-patterns in context?
tambe?m ADV <NP> gostaria V?also <NP> would like?Senhor Presidente , tambe?m <eu> gostaria defelicitar a relatora, .
.
.
?Mr President, I would also like to congratulatethe rapporteur, .
.
.??
senhoras ADJ e CJ <NP>?ladies and <NP>?Senhor Presidente , Senhora DeputadaMcCarthy, Senhoras e <SenhoresDeputados>, gostaria de comec?ar .
.
.
?Mr President, Mrs McCarthy, Ladies andgentlemen, let me begin .
.
.??
agradecer INF a` PREP+DA <NP>?thank <NP>?Gostaria de agradecer a` <minha colega,senhora deputada Echerer>, pela .
.
.
?I would like to thank my colleague,Mrs Echerer for .
.
.
?Other NP-patterns?
<NP> desejo V agradecer INF?<NP> wish to thank??
aguardo V com PREP <NP>?I look forward to <NP>??
associar INF aos PREP+DA <NP>?associate with <NP>??
considero V , PNT <NP>?I consider, <NP>?Table 5: NP-patterns in parliamentary speechesKim S.-M. and Hovy E. Identifying and analyzingjudgment opinions.
In HLT/NAACL 2006.Lloyd L., Kechagias D. and Skiena S. Lydia: A systemfor large-scale news analysis.
In SPIRE 2005.Mihalcea R., Banea C. and Hassan S. Learning mul-tilingual subjective language via cross-lingual pro-jections.
In ACL 2007.Pang B., Lee L. and Vaithyanathan S. Thumbsup?
Sentiment classification using machine learn-ing techniques.
In EMNLP 2002.Riloff E. and Wiebe J.
Learning extraction patterns forsubjective expressions.
In Proceedings of EMNLP-03, 8th Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-ral Language Processing, Sapporo, JP.Riloff E., Wiebe J. and Wilson T. Learning subjectivenouns using extraction pattern bootstrapping.
InW.
Daelemans & M. Osborne, Eds., Proceedings ofCONLL-03, 7th Conference on Natural LanguageLearning, p. 2532, Edmonton, CA.Takamura H., Inui T. and Okumura M. Latent vari-Some NP-patterns in context?
publicada V por PREP <NP>?published by <NP>?Publicada por <Joaquim Trincheiras>em 07:30?Posted by Joaquim Trenches at 07:30??
partilhar INF no PREP+DA <NP>?share on <NP>?Partilhar no <Twitter> .
.
.
?Share on Twitter ?
.
.
.?
postado PPA por PREP <NP>?posted by <NP>?Postado por <Assuntos de Pol?
?cia> a`s 13:30.?Posted by Police Affairs at 13:30.?Other NP-patterns?
<NP> por PREP la?
ADV?<NP> over there??
<NP> deixe V <NP>?<NP> let <NP>??
atualmente ADV , PNT <NP>?currently, <NP>??
<NP> e?
V linda ADJ?<NP> is beautiful?Table 6: NP-patterns in blogsable models for semantic orientations of phrases.
InEACL 2006.Turney P. Thumbs up or thumbs down?
Semantic ori-entation applied to unsupervised classification of re-views.
In ACL 2002.Wilson T., Wiebe J. and Hwa R. Just how mad areyou?
Finding strong and weak opinion clauses.
InProceedings of AAAI-04, 21st Conference of theAmerican Association for Artificial Intelligence, p.761-769, San Jose, US.Yu H. and Hatzivassiloglou V. Towards answeringopinion questions: Separating facts from opinionsand identifying the polarity of opinion sentences.
InEMNLP 2003.A List of POS-tagsADJ (adjectives), ADV (adverbs), CJ (con-junctions), CL (clitics), CN (common nouns),DA (definite articles), DEM (demonstratives),INF (infinitives), ITJ (interjections), NP (nounphrases), PNT (punctuation marks) PPA/PPT(past participles), PREP (prepositions), UM(?um?
or ?uma?
), V (other verbs).51
