Proceedings of the Twelfth Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Computational Morphology and Phonology (SIGMORPHON2012), pages 42?51,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsBounded copying is subsequential: Implications for metathesis andreduplication?Jane ChandleeLinguistics and Cognitive ScienceUniversity of DelawareNewark, DEjanemc@udel.eduJeffrey HeinzLinguistics and Cognitive ScienceUniversity of DelawareNewark, DEheinz@udel.eduAbstractThis paper first defines the conditions underwhich copying and deletion processes are sub-sequential: specifically this is the case whenthe process is bounded in the right ways.Then, if we analyze metathesis as the compo-sition of copying and deletion, it can be shownthat the set of attested metathesis patterns fallinto the subsequential or reverse subsequentialclasses.
The implications of bounded copyingare extended to partial reduplication, which isalso shown to be either subsequential or re-verse subsequential.1 IntroductionThis paper presents a computational analysis ofcopying and deletion in metathesis and partial redu-plication and establishes the necessary conditionsfor such patterns to be subsequential.
More specif-ically, it is shown that such patterns fall into thesubsequential or reverse subsequential classes if thecopying (for both cases) and deletion (for the case ofmetathesis only) are bounded in the right ways.The classification of natural language patterns bythe Chomsky Hierarchy (Chomsky, 1956) is onemeans of distinguishing the complexity of the pat-terns found in various linguistic domains.
Syn-tactic patterns, for example, may be context-free(e.g.
English nested embedding, (Chomsky, 1956))or context-sensitive (e.g.
Swiss German crossing?We thank the anonymous reviewers for useful questionsand suggestions.This research is supported by grant #1035577from the National Science Foundation.dependencies (Schieber, 1985)), while phonologi-cal patterns (i.e.
patterns that can be describedwith rewrite rules of the form A ?
B / C D,where A, B, C, and D are regular expressions) havebeen shown by Johnson (1972) and Kaplan and Kay(1994) to be regular.The regular class of patterns, however, is in facttoo large to correspond exactly to phonology (Heinz,2007; Heinz, 2009; Heinz, 2010).
Rather, it seemsthat phonological patterns fit into a subclass of theregular patterns.
Since the subsequential class isa proper subset of the regular class (Oncina et al,1993; Mohri, 1997), it is therefore a useful candi-date, especially because of its attractive computa-tional properties (Mohri, 1997).
Restricting the classof phonological patterns in this way has implicationsfor learning, since the subsequential but not the reg-ular class is identifiable in the limit from positivedata (Oncina et al, 1993).Using the formalism of finite state transducers(FSTs), we will show that metathesis and partialreduplication patterns can be described with subse-quential FSTs.
Subsequential FSTs are determinis-tic weighted transducers in which the weights arestrings and multiplication is concatenation.The analysis defines generally the conditions nec-essary for metathesis and partial reduplication tobe subsequential.
Representative examples of theempirical phenomena that can be so classified areshown in (1).
(1-a) is an example of local metathe-sis, (1-b) is an example of metathesis around an in-tervening segment, and (1-c) is an example of partialreduplication.42(1) a. Rotuman:hosa?
hoas ?flower?b.
Cuzco Quechua:yuraq?
ruyaq ?white?c.
Tagalog:sulat?
susulat ?will write?This kind of analysis sheds light on the natureof the relation itself independent of the particulartheory used to account for it.
It does not matterwhether the metathesized or reduplicated forms ex-emplified here are derived via a series of SPE-stylerules or with ranked constraints in OT.
The mapping(e.g.
<hosa, hoas> for Rotuman) remains the samein either case.
Additionally, the analysis has im-plications for any model beyond the phonologicaldomain that uses finite-state methodology, includ-ing (but not limited to) artificial intelligence (Rus-sell and Norvig, 2009), bioinformatics (Durbin etal., 1998), natural language processing (Jurafsky andMartin, 2008), and robotics (Belta et al, 2007; Tan-ner et al, 2012).The structure of the paper is as follows.
Sectiontwo provides the formal definitions necessary for theanalysis.
Section three presents an analysis of subse-quential copying, and section four presents an anal-ysis of subsequential deletion.
Section five turnsto the analysis of metathesis as the composition ofcopying and deletion and proves the conditions formetathesis to be subsequential.
Section six extendsthis analysis to partial reduplication.
Section sevendiscusses the implications of the distinctions drawnby the computational analysis for both typology andlearning.
Section eight concludes.2 PreliminariesIf ?
is a fixed finite set of symbols (an alphabet),then ?
* is the set of all finite length strings formedover this alphabet, and ?
?k is the set of all strings oflength less than or equal to k. A language is a subsetof ??.
 is the empty string.
The length of a string sis |s|; thus || = 0.
The prefixes of a string s, writtenPr(s), are {u ?
??
: ?v ?
??
such that s = uv}.
Thesuffixes of a string s, written Suf (s), are {u ?
??
:?v ?
??
such that s = vu}.
Sufn(s) is a suffix of s oflength n. The nonempty, proper prefixes of a strings is written Prprop(s).If L is a language then the prefixes of L arePr(L) =?s?L Pr(s) and the nonempty properprefixes of L are Prprop(L) =?s?L Prprop(s).
Alanguage L is finite iff there exists some k such thatL ?
??k.
For any w ?
?
?, the good tails of win L is TL(w) = {v ?
?
?|wv ?
L}.
Two pre-fixes u1 and u2 are Nerode equivalent with respectto some language L iff they share the same goodtails: u1 ?L u2 ?
TL(u1) = TL(u2).
In fact, a lan-guage L is regular iff the partition induced over ?
?by ?L has finite cardinality.
Note that every finitelanguage is regular.
If L1 and L2 are languages thenL1L2 = {uv | u ?
L1 and v ?
L2}.Definition 1.
(Oncina et al, 1993) A subsequentialfinite state transducer (SFST) is a six-tuple (Q, ?,?, q0, ?, ?
), where Q is a finite set of states, ?
is theinput alphabet, ?
is the output alphabet, q0 ?
Q isthe initial state, ?
?
(Q ??????
Q) is the transi-tion function, and ?
: Q?
??
is a partial functionthat assigns strings to the states in Q.
The edges, E,of the SFST are a finite subset of (Q???????
Q).SFSTs are deterministic, meaning they are subject tothe condition (q,a,u,r),(q,a,v,s) ?
E?
(u=v ?
r=s).Definition 2.
(Oncina et al, 1993) A path inan SFST ?
is a sequence of edges in ?
, pi =(q0, x1, y1, q1)(q1, x2, y2, q2) ?
?
?
(qn?1, xn, yn, qn).??
is the set of all possible paths over ?
.
A pathpi can also be expressed as (q0, x, y, qn) where x= x1x2...xn and y = y1y2 ?
?
?
yn.
The transduction?
realizes is the function t: ??
?
??
such that?(q0,x,y,q)???
and t(x) = y?
(q).A relation describable with an SFST is a subse-quential relation.
If f and g are relations, ?
denotesthe composition, where (g ?
f )(x) = g(f (x)).
Subse-quential relations are closed under composition:Theorem 1 ((Mohri, 1997) Theorem 1).
Let f : ???
??
and g : ??
?
??
be subsequential functions,then g ?
f is subsequential.Let R be a relation.
The reverse relation Rr ={<xr,yr>: <x,y> ?
R }.
A relation is reverse sub-sequential if its reverse relation is subsequential.3 Subsequential copyingThis paper will ultimately prove the conditions un-der which metathesis and partial reduplication, twoprocesses which can be analyzed as involving copy-ing, are subsequential relations.
To do this it is43first necessary to define a copy relation in gen-eral.
A copy can be place either before or after theoriginal?these two processes can be distinguishedas pre-pivot or post-pivot copying (where the pivotis an intervening string from the set U).Definition 3.
Let L,U,X,R be languages.1.
The rule ?
?
X / LXU R is a post-pivot copyrelation.2.
The rule ?
?
X / L UXR is a pre-pivot copyrelation.Kaplan and Kay (1994) show that if L,X,U, andR are regular languages, then the copy relationsabove are regular relations.
One goal of this paper isto identify the conditions on L,X,U, and R whichmake the above relations subsequential.Further distinctions can be drawn among regu-lar copy relations based on which of the surround-ing contexts of the copy and original are of boundedlength.Definition 4.
Let L,X,U, and R be regular lan-guages.1.
A pre-pivot or post-pivot copy relation is I-bounded iff U is a finite language (I is for ?in-tervening?).2.
A pre-pivot copy relation is L-bounded iff L isa finite language (L is for ?left-context?).3.
A post-pivot copy relation is R-bounded iff R isa finite language (R is for ?right-context?).4.
A copy relation is T-bounded iff X is a finitelanguage (T is for ?target?
).Theorem 2 below states that a pre-pivot, T-bounded, I-bounded, and R-bounded copy relationis subsequential.
To understand the idea behindthe proof, consider the abstract pre-pivot relationschematized in the following SFST for a particularl ?
L, u ?
U , x ?
X , and r ?
R.1 Note that each1Following (Beesley and Karttunen, 2003), in this and allother FSTs in the paper, ???
represents any symbol or stringexcept for those for which other transitions out of that state aredefined.
The states of the machine are labeled with the stringmapped to them by the ?
function.transition in the figure represents a series of tran-sitions and states (depending on the lengths of thestrings involved).??
?l?
uu:??:u?uxx:??
:ux?r:xuxrFigure 1: An SFST schematizing a pre-pivot T-bounded,I-bounded, and R-bounded copy relation.The transitions for which the output is the emptystring can be thought of as the machine withhold-ing the output until it verifies that it has found thecontext for copying.
Thus, out of the state labelled?ux?
the output on ?r?
is ?xuxr?, which is the copy fol-lowed by the segments for which there was no output(i.e.
the segments in u and x that were being ?held?
).This mechanism of holding is why the bounds on thelengths of the strings are necessary.
If there wereno upper bound on the length of the words in U,X,or R, the machine would have to hold a potentiallyinfinite number of strings, which would in turn re-quire infinitely many states.
Without these bounds,no SFST can be constructed.Theorem 2.
A regular pre-pivot copy relation thatis T-bounded, I-bounded, and R-bounded is subse-quential.Proof.
Let C be a pre-pivot, T-bounded, I-bounded,and R-bounded regular copy relation.
Then there ex-ists a regular language L and finite languages U , X ,and R such that C is described by the rewrite rule?
?
X / L UXR.An SFST is constructed for C as follows.
Thestates Q are the set of good tails of L and the non-empty proper prefixes of UXR.
Formally, let piL ={TL(w) | w ?
Pr(L)}.
ThenQ = (piL ?
Prprop(UXR))SinceL is a regular language, there are finitely manyelements of piL.
Since U,X, and R are finite lan-44guages, Prprop(UXR) is also finite.
Therefore Q isfinite.The initial state q0 = TL().The sigma function is defined as follows.
?q ?
Q,?
(q) ={ iff q ?
piLq otherwiseThe transition function is defined in two parts.First, for all s ?
Pr(L) and a ?
?
:(TL(s), a, a, TL(sa)) ?
E iff s, sa ?
Pr(L)and s 6?
L(TL(s), a, , a) ?
E iff s ?
L and a ?
Pr(UXR)(TL(s), a, a, TL()) ?
E otherwiseSecond, for all s in the nonempty proper prefixesof UXR and a ?
?
:(s, a, , sa) ?
E iff s, sa ?
Prprop(UXR)(s, a, xuxra, TL()) ?
E iff (?x ?
X)(?u ?
U)(?r ?
Prprop(R))[s = uxr, ra ?
R](s, a, ?
(s)a, TL()) ?
E otherwiseIt follows directly from this construction that theSFST recognizes the specified copy relation.Theorem 3 below states that a post-pivot copy re-lation need only be T- and R-bounded to be subse-quential.
The idea behind the proof is demonstratedby the abstract post-pivot copy relation schematizedin the following SFST for a particular x, u, and r.??
?l?
?u??
:?xruxFigure 2: An SFST for a post-pivot T-bounded and R-bounded copy relation.Since the machine finds the original x before it hasto produce the copy, the segments in u do not have tobe held.
The bounding is only necessary for x itself,and for the right context of the copy r. Thus whenthe original precedes the copy, the bounding on u isno longer a necessary condition for subsequentiality.Theorem 3.
A regular post-pivot copy relation thatis T-bounded and R-bounded is subsequential.The proof of the Theorem 3 (omitted) is similar tothe one for Theorem 2 but slightly more complicatedby the fact that U can be any regular language.The reverse of the relation in the proof of The-orem 3 would be a pre-pivot copy relation that isT-bounded and L-bounded.
This would reverse thepattern in Figure 2, except the left context and notthe right context would be bounded.
Such a patternis not subsequential, but it is reverse subsequential.Corollary 1.
A regular pre-pivot copy relation thatis T-bounded and L-bounded is reverse subsequen-tial.4 Subsequential deletionAs with copying, the deletion relations relevantfor metathesis come in two flavors, depending onwhether the deleted string precedes or follows theone that remains.Definition 5.
Let L,U,X,R be languages.1.
The rule X?
?
/ LXU R is a post-pivot dele-tion relation.2.
The rule X?
?
/ L UXR is a pre-pivot dele-tion relation.Kaplan and Kay (1994) show that if L,X,U, andR are regular languages, then the deletion relationsabove are regular relations.
Another goal of this pa-per is to identify the conditions on L,X,U, and Rwhich make the relations above subsequential.We can thus provide parallel definitions for T-bounded, I-bounded, and R-bounded deletion rela-tions.Definition 6.
Let L,X,U,R be regular languages.1.
A pre-pivot or post-pivot deletion relation is I-bounded iff U is a finite language.2.
A pre-pivot deletion relation is L-bounded iff Lis a finite language.3.
A post-pivot deletion relation is R-bounded iffR is a finite language.4.
A deletion relation is T-bounded iff X is a finitelanguage.45Figure 3 schematizes a pre-pivot regular dele-tion relation that is T-bounded, I-bounded, and R-bounded.??
?l?
uu:??:u?
uxx:??:ux?uxuu:??
:uxu?r:xurFigure 3: An SFST for a pre-pivot T-bounded, I-bounded,and R-bounded deletion relation.As with the copying, due to the need for -transitions, the possibility of constructing this ma-chine depends on the bounding of the length of thedeleted string, the intervening string, and the stringthat makes up the right context.Theorem 4.
A regular pre-pivot deletion relationthat is T-bounded, I-bounded, and R-bounded is sub-sequential.Proof.
Let D be a pre-pivot, T-bounded, I-bounded,and R-bounded regular deletion relation.
Then thereexists a regular language L and finite languages X ,R, and U such that D is defined by the rewrite ruleX?
?
/ L UXR.An SFST is constructed for D as follows.
Thestates Q are the set of good tails of L and the non-empty proper prefixes of XUXR.
Formally, let piL ={TL(w) | w ?
Pr(L)}.
ThenQ = (piL ?
Prprop(XUXR))Since L is regular, piL is finite.
Since U,X, and Rare finite languages, Prprop(XUXR) is also finite.Therefore Q is finite.The initial state q0 = TL().
The sigma functionis defined as in Theorem 2.Also as in Theorem 2, the transition function isdefined in two parts.
The first part, where all s ?Pr(L) and a ?
?
are considered, is the same as inTheorem 2 except for one case below.
(TL(s), a, , a) ?
E iff s ?
L anda ?
Pr(XUXR)The second part, where all s in the nonemptyproper prefixes of XUXR and a ?
?
are considered,is constructed as follows.
(s, a, , sa) ?
E iff s, sa ?
Prprop(XUXR)(s, a, uxra, TL()) ?
E iff(?x, x?
?
X)(?u ?
U)(?r ?
Prprop(R))[s = xux?r, ra ?
R](s, a, ?
(s)a, TL()) ?
E otherwiseIt follows directly from this construction that theSFST recognizes the deletion relation D.As for a post-pivot deletion relation, the proper-ties of T-bounding and R-bounding are sufficient forsubsequentiality since the intervening set U occursbefore the deletion.
As with Theorem 3, the proof ofTheorem 5 is omitted.Theorem 5.
A regular post-pivot deletion relationthat is T-bounded and R-bounded is subsequential.Lastly, if u is not bounded in a pre-pivot deletionrelation, but l and x are, the relation is reverse sub-sequential.Corollary 2.
A regular pre-pivot deletion relationthat is T-bounded and L-bounded is reverse subse-quential.5 Metathesis as the composition of copyingand deletionMetathesis has traditionally been viewed as an op-eration of transposition, in which segments switchpositions.
Under another view, metathesis can beconsidered as the result of two separate processes,a copy process followed by deletion of the originalsegment the copy was made from (Blevins and Gar-rett, 1998; Blevins and Garrett, 2004).
Take, for ex-ample, the metathesis process in Najdi Arabic (Ab-boud, 1979) in which a word with a CaCCat tem-plate surfaces as CCaCat:(2) /naQ?at/?
[nQa?at] ?ewe?An independent process of deletion (CaCaC ?CCaC) is also observed in Arabic dialects.
So thechange in (2) could be achieved via the two pro-cesses in (3).
The result after both processes cor-responds to metathesis (4).
(3) a.
Copy: CV1CC?
CV1CV1Cb.
Delete: CV1CV1C?
CCV1C46(4) Metathesis: CV1CC?
CCV1CThis analysis provides a way of classifying attestedpatterns according to the type of copying and dele-tion involved.
Cross-linguistic surveys (Blevins andGarrett, 1998; Blevins and Garrett, 2004; Hume,2000; Buckley, 2011; Chandlee et al, to appear) re-veal that in a large number of metathesis patternsthere is some bound on the length of the string thatintervenes between the copied segment and its orig-inal.
A classic example is found in the Rotumanlanguage, in which the incomplete form of a wordis derived from the complete form via word-finalconsonant-vowel metathesis (Churchward, 1940).The general rule for the example in (5-a) is in (5-b).
(5) a. hosa?
hoas ?flower?b.
CV?
VC / V #If we decompose this metathesis into its compo-nent copy and deletion operations, the copy portionwould be as in (6):2(6) V1CV2#?
V1V2CV2#Applying Definitions 3 and 4 to this example, wefirst classify the Rotuman pattern as pre-pivot copy-ing.
Since the length of the string between the orig-inal segment and the copy (u = C) is bounded by1, the copying is I-bounded.
The copying is also T-bounded, since a single vowel is copied (x = V2).And it is R-bounded, since the original vowel isword-final (r = ).
An FST for this pattern is shownin Figure 4.
Note that when the right context is theempty string, the copying is achieved via the ?
func-tion rather than a transition.
!C !VVCC:!C:CC VCVV:!C:CVCV:CVVFigure 4: An SFST for the copy process of Rotuman CV-metathesis.2This analysis assumes that it is the vowel that metathesizes.The same surface form would obtain if the consonant metathe-sized (C1V?C1VC1?VC1).
For evidence that the vowel is in-deed the segment involved in CV metathesis, see (Heinz, 2005).Another example of I-bounded copying is in anoptional metathesis process in Cuzco Quechua, inwhich sonorants metathesize across an interveningvowel (Davidson, 1977):(7) yuraq?
ruyaq ?white?Under a copy+deletion analysis of metathesis, thispattern would involve two copy processes followedby two deletions, one for the ?r?
and one for the ?y?.Schematizing just the process for ?r?, we can see in(8) that the length of the intervening string is againbounded by 1 (the ?y?
is removed for clarity).3 Thecopied string x (the liquid) is also bound by 1.
(8) uraq?
ruraqL-bounded copying is exemplified in a diachronicmetathesis pattern found in a South Italian dialect ofGreek (Rohlfs, 1950):(9) Classical South Italian Greekgambros?
grambo4 ?son-in-law?In this pattern, a non-initial liquid surfaces in the ini-tial onset cluster.
The original position of the liquidvaries, which means there is no bound on the lengthof the intervening string.
However, the location ofthe copy is always the initial cluster, which meansthe left context of the copy is bounded by the lengthof the maximum onset.The copying in metathesis is only the first step -the second is deletion of the original.
The deletionrule must be complementary to the copying, in thesense that if the copying is pre-pivot, the deletionwill be post-pivot (10), and vice versa (11).
(10) a.
Copy: ?
?
x / v uxwb.
Delete: x?
?
/ vxu w(11) a.
Copy: ?
?
x / vxu wb.
Delete: x?
?
/ v uxwAs stated in section 2, if two relations are subse-quential, then the composition of these relations willalso be subsequential.
Thus, whether or not themetathesis is subsequential depends on its compo-nent copy and deletion processes.
This result is es-3This assumes the two copy-deletions occur simultaneously.If one were to precede the other, then the bound would be 2.4The [s] is deleted in an unrelated process.47tablished in the following theorem.Theorem 6.
If a copy relation f is either (1)post-pivot, T-bounded, I-bounded and R-boundedor (2) pre-pivot, T-bounded, and R-bounded, anda deletion relation g is either (1) post-pivot, T-bounded, I-bounded and R-bounded or (2) pre-pivot,T-bounded, and R-bounded, then the metathesis re-lation g ?
f is subsequential.Proof.
By Theorems 2 and 3, f is subsequential.
ByTheorems 4 and 5, g is subsequential.
By Theorem1, g ?
f is subsequential.6 Partial ReduplicationUnlike metathesis, reduplication is analyzed by pho-nologists of all stripes as involving copying.
Tradi-tionally, two categories of reduplication have beendescribed: full (or total) and partial.
Full reduplica-tion involves copying the entire string and affixingit to the original.
A classic example is found in In-donesian (Sneddon, 1996), to express the plural:(12) a. buku ?book?b.
buku-buku ?books?In contrast, partial reduplication involves copying adesignated portion of the string and affixing it as ei-ther a prefix, suffix, or infix.
These options can beschematized as in (13)(Riggle, 2003), in which localmeans the reduplicant attaches adjacent to the ma-terial it copies and nonlocal means the reduplicantcopies a non-adjacent portion of the string:5(13) a. local prefixation: CV-CVZb.
nonlocal prefixation: CV-ZCVc.
local suffixation: ZCV-CVd.
nonlocal suffixation: CVZ-CVe.
infixation: C1VC1ZAn example of local prefixation is found in Tagalog,in which the future of a verb is derived from the stemwith a CV reduplicative prefix (Blake, 1917):(14) sulat?
susulat ?will write?An example of the infixation shown in (13-e) canbe found in Pima, in which the plural is derived by5These schemas assume CV reduplication, but the analy-sis would proceed the same for any reduplicant template, CC,CVC, etc.infixing a copy of the initial consonant after the firstvowel (Riggle, 2006):(15) sipuk?
sispuk ?cardinals?Since under the current analysis of metathesis ascopy+delete, the only difference between a metathe-sis pattern and partial reduplication is that the latterdoes not involve the second process of deletion, weshould predict that partial reduplication patterns willalso be subsequential if the copying is bounded asper the definitions given above.
We can clearly seethat in the local patterns (13-a) and (13-c), the orig-inal and the copy are adjacent and therefore (vac-uously) they are I-bounded.
For the infixation, thecopy likewise appears at a fixed distance from theoriginal.
In all three cases, the amount of materialto be copied fits a template and is thus bounded bythe length of the template (i.e.
they are T-bounded).Therefore by Theorem 2, these partial reduplicationpatterns are subsequential.
The SFST for local pre-fixation (13-a) is shown in Figure 5.!
!C !VV:VCVC?Figure 5: An SFST for CV-CVZ partial reduplication.The SFST for local suffixation (13-c) is shown inFigure 6.!V!CC CVVV CFigure 6: An SFST for ZCV-CV partial reduplication.And the SFST for infixation (13-e) is shown in Fig-ure 7.!
!C !VV:VCC?Figure 7: An SFST for C1VC1Z partial reduplication.As for the nonlocal patterns, first consider the caseof suffixation, (13-d).
The string represented by Z48is not bounded, and therefore this pattern is not I-bounded.
It is, however, R-bounded, since the copyis always affixed to the end of the word.
The rightcontext is the empty string, which is (vacuously)bounded.
Thus, by Theorem 3 this pattern is alsosubsequential; the FST is presented in Figure 8.!!C!VCCVV?
?Figure 8: An SFST for a CVZ-CV pattern.As for the last pattern, nonlocal prefixation, wehave the opposite situation: the machine does haveto hold a potentially infinite number of segmentswhile it searches for the original, which means thepattern is not subsequential.
However, this par-tial reduplication pattern is reverse subsequentialby Corollary 1: reversing the string CV-ZCV givesVCZ-VC, which is R-bounded and identical to thenonlocal suffixation that was already argued to besubsequential.To summarize, the attested partial reduplicationpatterns all appear to be subsequential or reversesubsequential.This leaves us with full reduplication.
Full redu-plication is non-regular?although the position ofthe copy is fixed, the amount of material that iscopied is not: full reduplication is not T-bounded.Again, with no principled upper limit on the lengthof words, a machine that copies an entire string can-not be finite state, much less subsequential.
Thisdistinction separates full and partial reduplicationin terms of computational complexity?the implica-tion being that these processes may be better viewedas distinct phenomena rather than subclasses of asingle process.7 DiscussionThe analyses of subsequential copying and deletionpresented above have revealed the conditions underwhich metathesis and partial reduplication patternsare subsequential.
Under a copy+deletion analysisof metathesis, all metathesis patterns are T-bounded,since only one segment is copied (and then deleted)at a time.
Partial reduplication is also T-bounded, as-suming what is copied fits a certain template.
Thusthe T-bounded requirement on subsequential copy-ing excludes only full reduplication from the subse-quential class.The analysis of metathesis relied on generalizedrepresentations of such patterns that appear to betypologically justified.
A large number of attestedmetathesis patterns are considered ?local?, whichamounts to being I-bounded by 1.
Metathesis pat-terns described as ?long distance?
are also either I-bounded or else L-bounded - patterns such as Ro-mance liquid movement (Vennemann, 1988) andRomani aspiration displacement (Matras, 2002) arestriking in that they all affect the initial onset of theword.6 A type of logically possible pattern that ap-pears to be unattested is one in which no context ofthe copying - left, right, or intervening - is bounded.Such a pattern would not be subsequential, and infact could not be described with any FST (i.e.
it isnon-regular).
In this way the restriction of metathe-sis to the subsequential class finds support in the ty-pological evidence.
Also (apparently) unattested isan R-bounded metathesis pattern - one which targetsthe end of the word - though this is readily found inthe typology of partial reduplication.
It remains forfuture work whether such a metathesis pattern doesexist, and if not, whether further distinctions needto be drawn to account for why R-bounded copyingonly appears as partial reduplication.Narrowing the computational bound of possiblephonological patterns from the regular class to thesubsequential class also has implications for learn-ing.
It is known that the class of regular languages isnot identifiable in the limit from positive data (Gold,1967), but the subsequential class is: Oncina et al(1993) have shown this class to be learnable by theOSTIA algorithm.
Although (without modification)OSTIA does not do so well in practice on real datasets (Gildea and Jurafsky, 1996), future work mayreveal algorithms that fare better if the hypothesisspace can be restricted even further (i.e.
to a sub-6The L-bounded patterns also appear to be restricted to thediachronic domain.
See (Chandlee et al, to appear)49class of the subsequential relations).8 ConclusionThis paper has argued for an analysis of metathesisas the composition of copying and deletion.
Suchan analysis provides a computational link betweenmetathesis and partial reduplication, which extendsinto a classification of these patterns as subsequen-tial based on the bounded nature of the copying and(in the case of metathesis) deletion.
The typologyof attested patterns aligns well with the classifica-tions proposed here, suggesting a tighter computa-tional bound on phonological patterns than the oneestablished by Johnson (1972) and Kaplan and Kay(1994).Thus we can add metathesis and partial redupli-cation to the phonological processes that have previ-ously been shown to be subsequential - see (Koirala,2010) for substitution, insertion, and deletion, andGainor et al (to appear) for vowel harmony.
Itwill be interesting to see to what extent morpholog-ical processes, including templatic morphology, andprosodic circumscription, also fit into this class.ReferencesP.
F. Abboud.
1979.
The verb in Northern Najdi Arabic.Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,42:467-499.K.R.
Beesley and L. Karttunen.
2003.
Finite State Mor-phology.
Stanford: CSLI Publications.C.
Belta, A. Bicchi, M. Egerstedt, E. Frazzoli, E. Klavinsand G. J. Pappas.
2007 Symbolic planning and con-trol of robot motion.
IEEE Robotics and AutomationMagazine, 14(1): 61?71.F.
R. Blake.
1917.
Reduplication in Tagalog.
The Amer-ican Journal of Philology, 38: 425-431.J.
Blevins and A. Garrett.
1998.
The origins ofconsonant-vowel metathesis.
Language, 74(3):508-556.J.
Blevins and A. Garrett.
2004.
The evolution ofmetathesis.
In B. Hayes, R. Kirchner, and D. Steri-ade (eds.)
Phonetically Based Phonology.
Cambridge:Cambridge UP, 117-156.E.
Buckley.
2011.
Metathesis.
In M. van Oostendorp,C.J.
Ewen, E. Hume, and K. Rice (eds.)
The Black-well Companion to Phonology, Volume 3.
Wiley-Blackwell.J.
Chandlee, A. Athanasopoulou, and J. Heinz.
to appearEvidence for classifying metathesis patterns as subse-quential.
Proceedings of the 29th West Coast Confer-ence on Formal Linguistics Somerville: Cascadilla.N.
Chomsky.
1956.
Three models for the descriptionof language.
IRE Transactions on Information Theory113124.
IT-2.C.
M. Churchward.
1940.
Rotuman grammar and dictio-nary.
Sydney: Methodist Church of Australasia, De-partment of Overseas Missions.J.
O. Davidson, Jr. 1977.
A Contrastive Study ofthe Grammatical Structures of Aymara and CuzcoQuechua Ph.D. dissertation.
University of California,Berkeley.R.
Durbin, S. R. Eddy, A. Krogh, and G. Mitchison 1998Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Modelsof Proteins and Nucleic Acids Cambridge UniversityPress.B.
Gainor, R. Lai, and J. Heinz.
to appear Compu-tational characterizations of vowel harmony patternsand pathologies.
Proceedings of the 29th West CoastConference on Formal Linguistics.
Somerville: Cas-cadilla.D.
Gildea and D. Jurafsky.
1996.
Learning bias andphonological-rule induction.
Computational Linguis-tics22, 497-530.E.M.
Gold.
1967.
Language identification in the limit.Infomation and Control10, 447-474.J.
Heinz.
2005.
Optional partial metathesis in Kwara?ae.Proceedings of AFLA 12, UCLA Working Papers, 91-102.J.
Heinz.
2007.
The inductive learning of phonotacticpatterns.
Doctoral dissertation, University of Califor-nia, Los Angeles.J.
Heinz.
2009.
On the role of locality in learning stresspatterns.
Phonology 26: 303-351.J.
Heinz.
2010.
Learning long-distance phonotactics.Linguistic Inquiry 41, 623-661.E.
Hume.
2000.
Metathesis Website.
www.ling.ohio-state.edu/ ehume/metathesis.C.
D. Johnson.
1972.
Formal Aspects of PhonologicalDescription The Hague: Mouton.D.
Jurafsky and J.H.
Martin 2008 Speech and LanguageProcessing, 2nd edition.
Pearson Prentice Hall.R.
Kaplan and M. Kay.
1994.
Regular models of phono-logical rules systems.
Computational Linguistics 20:331-378.C.
Koirala.
2012.
Strictly Local Relations.
Ms. Univer-sity of Delaware.Y.
Matras.
2002.
Romani: a linguistic introduction.Cambridge: Cambridge UP.M.
Mohri.
1997.
Finite-state transducers in languageand speech processing.
Computational Linguistics,23: 269-311.50J.
Oncina, P. Garcia, and E. Vidal.
1993.
Learning subse-quential transducers for pattern recognition interpreta-tion tasks.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis andMachine Intelligence, 15(5): 448-457.J.
Riggle.
2003.
Nonlocal reduplication.
Proceedings ofthe 34th annual meeting of the North Eastern Linguis-tic Society.J.
Riggle.
2006.
Infixing reduplication in Pima and itstheoretical consequences.
Natural Language and Lin-guistic Theory, 24: 857-891.G.
Rohlfs.
1950.
Historische grammatik der unterital-ienischen Gra?zita?t, Mu?nchen: Verlag der BayerischenAkademie der Wissenchaften.S.
Russell and P. Norvig.
2009 Artificial Intelligence: amodern approach.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: PrenticeHallS.
Schieber.
1985 Evidence against the context-freenessof natural language.
Linguistics and Philosophy 8:333-343.J.
N. Sneddon.
1996.
Indonesian: a comprehensivegrammar, Routledge.H.
G. Tanner, C. Rawal, J. Fu, J. L. Piovesan, and C. T.Abdallah.
2012 Finite abstractions for hybrid systemswith stable continuous dynamics.
Discrete Event Dy-namic Systems ,22(1):83-99.T.
Vennemann.
1988.
Preference laws for syllable struc-ture and the explanation of sound change.
Berlin:Mouton de Gruyter.51
