Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2012), pages 214?222,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Approaches for Gene-Drug Interaction Extractionfrom Biomedical Text: Corpus and Comparative EvaluationNate Sutton, Laura Wojtulewicz, Neel Mehta, Graciela GonzalezDepartment of Biomedical InformaticsArizona State University, Tempe, Arizona, USA{nate.sutton, whitz, nbmehta2, graciela.gonzalez}@asu.eduAbstractPublications that report genotype-drug inte-raction findings, as well as manually curateddatabases such as DrugBank and PharmGKBare essential to advancing pharmacogenomics,a relatively new area merging pharmacologyand genomic research.
Natural languageprocessing (NLP) methods can be very usefulfor automatically extracting knowledge suchas gene-drug interactions, offering researchersimmediate access to published findings, andallowing curators a shortcut for their work.We present a corpus of gene-drug interac-tions for evaluating and training systems toextract those interactions.
The corpus in-cludes 551 sentences that have a mention of adrug and a gene from about 600 journalsfound to be relevant to pharmacogenomicsthrough an analysis of gene-drug relationshipsin the PharmGKB knowledgebase.We evaluated basic approaches to auto-matic extraction, including gene and drug co-occurrence, co-occurrence plus interactionterms, and a linguistic pattern-based method.The linguistic pattern method had the highestprecision (96.61%) but lowest recall (7.30%),for an f-score of 13.57%.
Basic co-occurrenceyields 68.99% precision, with the addition ofan interaction term precision increases slightly(69.60%), though not as much as could be ex-pected.
Co-occurrence is a reasonable base-line method, with pattern-based being a prom-ising approach if enough patterns can be gen-erated to address recall.
The corpus is availa-ble at http://diego.asu.edu/index.php/projects1 IntroductionPharmacogenomics is a relatively new area ofbiomedical research that merges pharmacology andmolecular genomics, among other disciplines, andfocuses on studying the effects of genetic variabili-ty on drug toxicity and efficacy, on the discoveryof novel genomic targets for drug development,and on the identification and functional characteri-zation of polymorphisms relevant to drug action.Thus, publications that report genotype-drug find-ings and manually curated databases that collectsuch findings, like PharmGKB and DrugBank(Hewett et al, 2002; Wishart, 2006) are of para-mount importance to the field.
However, manualcuration is expensive and time consuming, andcannot keep up with the ever increasing number ofpublications.
Natural language processing (NLP)methods can be very useful for automatically ex-tracting such gene-drug interactions, offering re-searchers immediate access to published findings,and allowing curators a shortcut for their work.Consider for example a sentence contain-ing an interaction NLP can help extract:  ?Only theepsilon4 allele of APOE was found to make a sig-nificant (P = 0.002) but small contribution to war-farin dose requirement.?
(PMID: 16847429).
Wecan easily see that in the sentence, an APOE alleleinteracts with the drug warfarin in its dose re-quirement.
Furthermore, at a higher level of ab-straction, the sentence can help researchers inferthat APOE affects the metabolic processes targetedby the drug warfarin.NLP researchers attacking an interactionextraction project such as this one, will usuallystart by identifying the entities involved in the ex-tractions and the terms that indicate such interac-tions.
Assuming named entity recognition (NER)systems exist for the entities in question (or a dic-tionary is available for direct match), the mainconcern becomes extracting true interactions.
Agold standard corpus would then need to be identi-fied or created in order to evaluate and developinteraction extraction approaches, starting with the214simplest ones.
We aim to support advancement inthe area of gene-drug interaction extractionthrough the construction of a corpus for that taskthat offers advantages not available in another sim-ilar corpus.
Also for that support we report on astudy of the capabilities of different methods forthat form of extraction.To achieve our aim, we describe a newcorpus of gene-drug interactions, and compare theperformance of two basic approaches plus the re-implementation of a more advanced pattern-basedapproach measured against this corpus.
We do notseek in this publication to advance the extractionmethods themselves, but allow a side-to-side com-parison of approaches on a single corpus.The sentences in the corpus (a total of 551)were randomly selected from sentences that in-clude both a gene and a drug mention from the ab-stracts published on a selection of journals thathave articles relevant to pharmacogenomics.
Ingeneral, annotations include interactions evidentfrom the sentence, if any, also noting when men-tioned genes or drugs are not involved in interac-tions.
All sentences were annotated by the mainauthor, with a second and third annotator verifying26% of the corpus.
The corpus is publicly availa-ble online along with other supplementary mate-rials including the annotation guide1.The extraction methods evaluated includeco-occurrence of a gene and a drug, co-occurrenceof a gene and a drug plus a recognized interactionterm, and one that uses specific linguistic patternsfor classification based on (Coulet, Shah, Garten,Musen, & Altman, 2010).
The linguistic patternmethod had the highest precision (96.61%) butlowest recall (7.30%), for an f-score of 13.57%.Basic co-occurrence yields 68.99% precision, withthe addition of an interaction term increasing pre-cision slightly (69.60%), though not as much ascould be expected.
Analysis of our results showthat performance could be immediately improvedby improving the fundamental entity-recognitionof drugs and genes.2 Related WorkA good portion of the work presented here followsprior approaches to high quality protein-proteininteraction (PPI) corpora development and extrac-1 http://diego.asu.edu/index.php/projectstion.
Given that our corpus contains genes andproteins as entities, procedures used to create PPIcorpora were a useful resource.
A variety of anno-tation decisions made were informed by the workof Pyysalo et.
al.
on their BioInfer corpus (Pyysaloet al, 2007).
A detailed annotation guide used intheir work was referenced in annotation rules inthis work.
Other corpora, such as the ones used inBiocreative challenges, have also made valuablecontributions to PPI extraction progress (Haken-berg et al, 2010; Krallinger, Leitner, Rodriguez-Penagos, & Valencia, 2008).Unlike for PPI interaction extraction, thereare very limited currently available corpora thatcan be used for automatic gene-drug interactionextraction system development and evaluation.One corpus that contains those interactions is a 300sentence corpus by Ahlers et al (Ahlers, Fiszman,Demner-Fushman, Lang, & Rindflesch, 2007).The Ahlers et.
al.
corpus include the biologicalinteraction categories of inhibit, and stimulate inaddition to interaction annotations for genes anddrugs.
Our corpus does not contain those addition-al categories directly, but the interaction words thatare annotated in our corpus can indicate such cate-gories as well as others.
All in all, our focus wason creating a corpus that could be used for evalua-tion of basic as well as complex approaches, andallow machine-learning based systems to betrained on it.Current systems for extracting gene-druginteractions are based on entity co-occurrence andsome include matching of relationship terms.Those systems commonly use statistical formulasfor ranking the relevance of results.
Polysearch,Pharmspresso, and others are examples of suchsystems (Cheng et al, 2008; Garten & Altman,2009).
Some systems integrate linguistic patternsinto their methods, such as those by Coulet et.
al.and Tari et.
al.
(Luis Tari, J?rg Hakenberg, Gracie-la Gonzalez, & Baral, 2009).
The system by Cou-let et al explores the value of dependency graphinformation for relationship extraction.
Anotherresult of Coulet et.
al.
's work was the Phare ontol-ogy that includes concepts relevant to those rela-tionships, which we utilize in this work.
The valueof such collections of interaction-indicating termshas been highlighted before in the biomedical rela-tionship extraction context (Bui, Nuall?in, Bouch-er, & Sloot, 2010; Chowdhary, Zhang, & Liu,2009).2153 Materials and Methods3.1  Corpus design.The purpose for the creation of the new corpus wasto create a resource that NLP developers can use totrain and test gene-drug interaction extraction sys-tems.
The corpus was based on articles from jour-nals that are known to contain pharmacogenomicrelationships.
Genes and drugs were automaticallytagged and then 551 sentences that contain both agene and drug were randomly selected for annota-tion.
The corpus and sentence selection process isdescribed in the following subsections.Journal Selection.
A list of journals relevant topharmacogenomics was generated by extractingthe journal names from articles that have been cu-rated in PharmGKB as containing evidence ofgene-drug relationships.
This list was generatedfrom their downloadable ?relationships?
file,which contains the abstract IDs of articles withmanually curated gene-drug relationships.
591journal names were obtained this way.
The goal ofusing only those journals is to make the corpusrepresentative of typical sentences containing agene and drug from literature known to reportpharmacogenomic findings.Sentence processing.
All abstracts in PubMed fromthe relevant journal names were downloaded.
Asentence splitter program from OpenNLP was usedto extract sentences from the abstracts (?TheOpenNLP Homepage,?
n.d.).
A total of22,601,402 sentences were processed.Identification of entites.
Previous work in pharma-cogenomics relationship extraction has shown ef-fective results by classifying relationships afteridentifying sentences with entities of interestthrough dictionary matching techniques (Garten &Altman, 2009; Rebholz-Schuhmann et al, 2007).Our work takes a similar approach, but utilizes amachine-learning based method, BANNER, forgene recognition, as it was shown to have betterperformance than a dictionary-based method(Leaman & Gonzalez, 2008).
Drugs were recog-nized through the use of dictionary matching.
Thedictionaries used for drugs were based on drugnames available at DrugBank.
Exact full tokenmatching of drug terms was used to identify themin sentences.
Although incorrectly tagged (falseentity) genes and drugs were corrected by annota-tors, they did not add entities missed by NER rec-ognition.
A second round of annotation will correctthis when we shift focus to NER.Terms indicative of an interaction for add-ing to basic co-occurrence relationship extractionwere extracted from the Phare ontology.
Theterms acquired were from rdfs labeled text in the?object properties?
in the ontology.
Object proper-ties are elements of the ontology that describe rela-tionships between classes such as gene and drugs,yielding 168 unique terms after stemming.Sentence selection.
The initial annotation effortthat is the focus of this paper was aimed at com-pleting around 500 sentences as a proof of concept,with a total of 1,500 to be completed in the secondphase of this project.
Random selection of sen-tences that include a gene and a drug, in contrast tobalanced positive and negative selection, was usedto make the corpus reflect typical sentences poten-tially containing an interaction that can be easilyextracted from the source articles after simple(drug and gene) concept tagging, which is the mostbasic approach to interaction extraction.
The ran-domized ratio of positive and negative interactionsin the corpus is useful for training classificationsystems that operate on similarly pre-processedsentences to account for that naturally occurringratio.3.2  Annotation.An annotation tool named STAV was used tocreate annotations (?stav,?
n.d.).
Customization ofthe tool was performed to match the types of anno-tations needed for the corpus.
The identified enti-ties were formatted for use with the tool.
Annota-tions created with the tool were stored in the Bi-oNLP shared task file format.
That format is com-patible with a variety of existing systems for rela-tionship extraction.Annotation guidelines.
Based on a review of litera-ture on related annotation guidelines for relation-ships such as PPIs, an initial annotation guidelinewas created based on a small sample of sentences.The guide was iteratively refined through annota-tion of additional sentences, until considered suffi-ciently stable for release to additional annotators.The guideline was refined to achieve a bal-ance of complexity and clarity to assist annotators.216Only a few (5-10) example sentences per annotatorhave been discussed in person.
The explicit writ-ten instructions in the guide were relied on morethan in-person example sentence discussions totrain annotators to handle the complicated contentof the corpus and avoid over-influencing the anno-tators, as noted that is possible with the overuse ofthose examples (Hovy & Lavid, 2008).The first annotator, a student with a Bache-lor of Science (BS) in Biology, was the main anno-tator and author of the guidelines.
The second andthird annotators are PhD students in BiomedicalInformatics, the second with a BS in Biology and10 years nursing experience, and the other with aBachelor of Technology in Bioinformatics.
Week-ly annotation meetings were done on individualbases.
A short checklist of things to look for inannotations was distributed in addition to theguidelines.Annotations.
The following describes major anno-tation categories and subcategories in the corpus:?
Interaction  Genes and drugs are annotatedsimply as ?having an interaction?
broadly un-derstood as having an ?action, effect, or influ-ence?
on each other.
All gene-drug interac-tions annotated must have at least one interac-tion term that helps explain the interaction.Additional properties that were annotated anda brief explanation of their purpose include:o Direct/Indirect:  Describes the complexi-ty in the interaction statements.
An ?indi-rect?
interaction is one where the presenceof an intermediary entity is needed for se-mantic understanding of the interaction.o Explicit/Inferred:  Records if an infe-rence had to be made on whether the inte-raction was present because an interactionwas not explicitly stated.?
Non-interactiono Shared Entity:  An entity connected toboth a gene and a drug that don't interactwith each other.
In contrast to an interme-diary entity.?
Interaction Term  Terms that are descriptiveof the interaction (as defined earlier).
Theseterms are helpful for capturing more specifical-ly the type of interaction present.?
Intermediary Entity  These are non-gene,non-drug entities that are closely connected tothe interaction.
They are entities that areneeded for understanding of the full semanticmeaning of gene-drug interactions.
These enti-ties are not annotated themselves but they areused to determine the indirectness property.Examples of these categories can be seen in thesentence: ?Using standard steady-state kineticanalysis, it was demonstrated that paclitaxel was apossible uncompetitive inhibitor to NAT activity incytosols based on the decrease in apparent valuesof K(m) and V(max).?
(PMID: 11955677).
Thissentence includes an interaction between the drugpaclitaxel and gene NAT.
An interaction term thathelps establish that the interaction is present is ?in-hibitor?.
?Cytosols?
is where the NAT inhibitionactivity can occur and represents an intermediaryentity that is needed in the semantic meaning of theinteraction.The broad definition of interaction wasused to make progress toward annotations includ-ing, and in turn being representative of, the mostgeneral form of gene-drug interaction that is de-scribed in the source abstracts.
We chose to firstconcentrate on getting good inter-annotator agree-ment using the general definition before consider-ing additionally annotating specific biological inte-raction types.
Annotated interactions are requiredto have at least one annotated interaction term (al-though terms do not have to be from the predefinedlist) to ensure that specific and identifiable lan-guage is present that justifies the annotation.The subcategories included were added torecord the linguistic complexity in which the inte-ractions and non-interactions are described.
Re-cording that complexity can help system develop-ers handle its presence when trying to automatical-ly recognize interaction statements.
Additionally,the annotation properties of speculation, negation,and nesting were allowed but not separately anno-tated in interaction annotations.Each annotator reported annotation timeestimates.
Total time spent on annotations includ-ing meetings but not other work (e.g.
guidelinedevelopment) was approximately 80 hours for theprimary annotator and 20 hours combined for otherannotators.
Hard sentences to annotate requiredresearch into source articles and entities described.217Evaluation of the Corpus.
Around 26% of the cor-pus was annotated by a second and third annotator.A program was created for IAA scoring, account-ing for nested entities and equivalent entities in-cluding abbreviations.
Manual review was used toverify the program?s scores.
Example sentencesfrom the corpus discussed with annotators were notused for IAA scoring.3.3  Relationship Extraction methods.Three basic methods for extracting interactionswere implemented for evaluation.
The basic me-thod, co-occurrence, is inherent to the corpus as allsentences are selected based on both entities beingpresent in them.
Thus, in co-occurrence, any men-tion of a gene and a drug together in a sentencerepresents an interaction between those entities.Co-occurrence plus interaction terms, thesecond method tried, identifies that interactions arepresent only when sentences contain an interactionword from a predefined list.
The list of interactionterms obtained from the Phare ontology was fil-tered by removing common stop words.
Also, afilter was applied to only use terms greater thantwo letters in size.
Those filters were used to avoidunneeded matches from common words.The linguistic pattern based extraction me-thod developed for this evaluation was based onthe work by Coulet et.
al.
Specific linguistic pat-terns described in that work were used to classifythe presence of interactions between genes anddrugs.
A program named Graph Spider was usedto match the specified patterns within sentences(Shepherd & Clegg, 2008).
The Stanford Parserwas used to generate dependency graphs for usewith the pattern recognition in Graph Spider.The dependency rules designed by Coulet.et.
al.
were entered into Graph Spider using themetapattern language (MPL) designed by theGraph Spider authors.
MPL is a pattern formalismthat can be used to match dependency subgraphpatterns in dependency parsed text.
After depen-dency graphs were generated for processing inGraph Spider, text representing genes and drugs inthe graphs were converted to general tags for thoseentity types.
Those conversions were made to al-low the patterns in MPL to be generalizable.Java programs were created to reformatand score the subgraph pattern match results madeby Graph Spider.
Scoring used text character posi-tions (spans) of entities included in annotations.True positives were recorded when pairs of entityspans in Graph Spider subgraph results matchedannotated pairs of entity spans labeled as havinginteractions.
False positives and false negativeswere similarly assessed using entity spans.
A ma-nual evaluation of pattern matched output com-pared to annotations was performed to ensure ac-curacy.A condition applied in the pattern basedsystem was that the patterns can match up to fourmodifier words for each individual gene and drugin interaction pattern matches.
Those words areadditional words that modify the meaning of thegene or drug in the interaction.
The limit was in-cluded for practical reasons, as hand coding of pat-terns in MPL is complex.
The rules described byCoulet et.
al.
did not specify any limit on modifierwords but the difference in results by including arealistic limit is predicted to be negligible.4 ResultsA total of 551 sentences are annotated, with 781interactions present in them.
There are 351 in-stances of non-interactive entities in the same set.The average length of sentences is 28.1 words.Table 1 describes further properties of the corpus.Annotation Analysis.
The inter-annotator agree-ment scores are reported as accuracy and Cohen?skappa.
Kappa was chosen due to its widespreaduse and therefore comparability with other work incorpus creation.
Accuracy is found by the numberof instances agreed on divided by the total in-stances annotated.
A total of 144 sentences wereused for the scoring.
Annotators 1 and 2, 1 and 3,and 2 and 3 were compared using 92, 52, and 61sentences respectively.
IAA results with the maincategories of interaction vs. non-interaction areshown in Table 2.Sentences Tokens (withpunctuation)Words (tokens withno punctuation)551 18,585 15,464Table 1.
Statistics describing corpus properties.1 & 2 1 & 3 2 & 3Accuracy 81.1% 74.2% 73.0%Kappa 45.7% 30.5% 11.4%Table 2.
Inter-annotator agreement results.218IAA scores were found for all annotatedsubcategories.
Those subcategories are DirectEx-plicit, IndirectExplicit, IndirectInferred for interac-tions and SharedEntity for non-interactions.
Theirranges of scores with all annotator pair groups us-ing accuracy scores are 72-79%, 40-69%, 62-82%,50-60% and kappa scores are 31-58%, 1-27%, -4-31%, 0-4% respectively.
Those scores are createdby selecting main category inter-annotator matches(e.g.
interaction) and calculating the IAA betweenthe annotated subcategories.In some sentences, annotators misseddoing annotations for gene-drug instances that theother annotator added.
IAA scores did not includeannotations made by only one annotator.
Confir-mation with annotators was made that annotationsnot made were not intended to represent non-interactions.
The percentage of missed inter-annotator instances was approximately 20%.
Fu-ture work will be to improve the inter-annotatorannotation process so that those instances are notmissed for IAA scoring.
While some annotationswere missed in IAA scoring, annotations by theprimary annotator that are included in the corpuscontain all instances (none missed) from the sourcetext to our knowledge.IDContents AgreementSentence textA One direct expli-cit interactionY This suggests that galantamine (GAL), a cholinesterase inhibitor, could beeffective when seeking to prolong abstinence in recently detoxified alcohol-ics.
(PMID: 16328375)B One indirect ex-plicit and fourshared entitynon-interactionsY They are widely distributed and mediate all of the known biologic effects ofangiotensin II (AngII) through a variety of signal transduction systems, in-cluding activation of phospholipases C and A2, inhibition of adenylate cyc-lase, opening of calcium channels, and activation of tyrosine kinases.
(PM-ID: 9892138)C One indirect ex-plicit interactionN The results of studies of perfused rat hearts with completely inhibited crea-tine kinase show significantly decreased work capacity and respectively,energy fluxes, in these hearts in spite of significant activation of adenylatekinase system (Dzeja et al this volume).
(PMID: 9746326)Table 3.
Example sentences from the corpus.Table 4.
Extraction system performances.Note that sentences were selected based on co-occurrence of a gene and a drug, thus recall is100% for that method, as it essentially definesthe corpus.The scoring methods used were instancelevel scoring instead of sentence level scoring.
Inthe instance level scoring each gene-drug instancecounted in performance scores.A caveat about the pattern-based systemscoring should be noted.
That caveat was that theGraph Spider software used was unable to processapproximately 10% (around 50) of the sentences inthe corpus due to errors.
The pattern-based systemis likely to have scored slightly higher if it couldhave processed those sentences.5 Discussion5.1  Analyses of interaction extraction methodsperformance.InteractionExtractor TypePrecision(TP/TP+FP)Recall(TP/TP+FN)F1-Score(2*((P*R)/(P+R)))Co-occurrence 68.99%(781/1132)100.00%(781/781)81.65%Co-occurrenceplus int.
terms69.60%(664/954)85.02%(664/781)76.54%Pattern-based 96.61%(57/59)7.30%(57/781)13.57%219The f-score of co-occurrence with and without in-teraction terms showed better performance than thepattern-based interaction extractions, which wasexpected.
Pattern based methods, particularly thosewhere the patterns were manually created, are typi-cally very high in precision and very low in recall,as they are highly dependant on the specific pat-terns included for recognition.
Although recall waslow, users who want very high confidence interac-tion predictions or interactions of a very specifictype can benefit from the pattern-based system?sdemonstrated high precision.
Co-occurrence cansuit users who want to focus on recall.Coulet et al reported their system scored aprecision of 70% for exact match and 87.7% forexact or incomplete match but true classification.Our results are similar to their 87.7% results inboth percentage and scoring method.
The methodthat allows incompleteness accepts matches thataccurately identify core pharmacogenomic rela-tionships but don?t need to correctly match modifi-er words.
Our scoring is similar in not needing tomatch modifier words.
The similarity in resultsindicates that we correctly implemented the systemthat Coulet et al designed.
That indication doeshave the limitation that the 10% of sentences una-ble to be processed may have affected the results.An example of a more complex interactionthat was matched by co-occurrence with an inte-raction term but not the pattern-based method was?Moreover, S-nitrosylation of thioredoxin was alsosignificantly augmented after atorvastatin treat-ment.?
(PMID: 15289372).
In that sentence, aninteraction occurred where thioredoxin's (gene) S-nitrosylation was augmented by atorvastatin(drug).
Analysis of the dependency graphs used bythe pattern-based system revealed some reasonswhy it was unable to identify the interaction.The pattern-based system uses a rule thatapplies to that sentence: a potential pattern se-quence match can be ?interrupted?
by a dependen-cy that does not fit accepted patterns.
In the non-classified sentence, the entities ?was?
and ?aug-mented?
were terms that caused the pattern match-ing to be interrupted.
Both ?was?
and ?aug-mented?
are not nouns or prepositions.
They bothalso are needed in the dependency subgraph thatconnects the gene and drug together.
Those partsof speech are not allowed to be chained together inthe pattern-based system's patterns.
That deviationfrom the allowed patterns caused the system tomiss that interaction.Adding patterns with more diversity in al-lowed parts of speech in series of interaction termsthat connect genes and drugs in interactions canimprove recall performance.
A review of parts ofspeech (POS) in missed matches showed that somemisses were due to no verb POS tags being presentin interaction descriptions.
That can occur whenverbs are in their nominalized form or other situa-tions.
Mining the corpus for both part of speechand dependency graph patterns can identify pat-terns that are able to correct those misses.
Also,the POS tagger included with the parser mis-tagged a variety of words.
Using a higher perfor-mance tagger or one trained on biomedical textmay help with pattern matches.Ahlers et.
al.
also reported relationship ex-traction performance from a new system with theirgene-drug corpus.
That system achieved a preci-sion of 73% and recall of 50% extracting an anno-tation category including gene-drug relationships.The system is built upon an earlier system and animportant part of its capabilities comes from spe-cialized linguistic rules it uses.
The corpus in-cluded in this work can be useful for further devel-opment of systems that integrate such rules withother methods to improve extraction performances.Some characteristics were notable aboutthe results of the methods using co-occurrencewith and without interaction terms.
The perfor-mances found of those methods may be specific toan increased amount of gene-drug interactionsfound in the journals used compared to other jour-nals.
Also, the use of interaction terms from thePhare ontology was expected to increase precisionbecause they were found from predicted pharma-cogenomic relationships.
The co-occurrence withinteraction terms method resulted in only approx-imately equaling the precision of basic co-occurrence.
One possible reason for that is theterms were originally found partly with diseaserelationships.
They therefore can be less relevantto gene-drug interactions.5.2  Analyses of annotationsTable 2 includes that the general interaction anno-tations had the kappa values 46%, 30%, 11%which are considered only moderate to low scoresby common rating methods.
Some IAA scores,such as kappa, include a correction for chance220agreement probability.
An intentional designchoice was made in the corpus to allow an unba-lanced but natural ratio of interactions to non-interactions.
That imbalance increased kappa?scorrection.
Although our reasonably high IAAscores with accuracy helped increase the kappascore, they were not enough to offset the correctionand bring kappa above the moderate score.An article by Strijbos et.
al.
states thatkappa can have a strict chance agreement correc-tion in the case of few categories (Strijbos, Mar-tens, Prins, & Jochems, 2006).
Given that generalinteraction scores were only based on the catego-ries of present or absent, kappa may have beenoverly strict with the correction.
If that correctionin our data is not strict, but justified, than that indi-cates how further improving our annotationprocess can be valuable.
Further investigation willgo into understanding what statistics may be usefulfor scoring given the corpus properties.
Explora-tion will also continue with talking to annotator sabout what may be causing disagreement.
Thatexploration will help reveal ways to improve IAA.Subcategories showed mixed results intheir IAA performances.
The subcategories withthe highest IAA scores may indicate that thosesubcategories are more clearly defined than othersin the annotation guide.Reviewing some annotated sentences canhelp clarify how the IAA results occurred.
All an-notators agreed the drug galantamine has a directexplicit interaction with cholinesterase in sentenceA in Table 3.
Such an interaction description issimply described and an annotator has reportedthat type of interaction being the easiest to identify.Agreement was found with all annotatorsfor annotations in sentence B in Table 3.
It wasreadily understandable to annotators that calciumand other signal transduction systems do not havean interaction simply for all being a part of thosetypes of systems.An example of a sentence with annotatordisagreement was sentence C in table 3.
Althoughendogenously produced in this case, the nestedentity creatine was considered a drug due to beingrelevant to creatine in its exogenous drug form.The occurrence of multiple properties,such as inhibition and effects on hearts can make itdifficult to follow the logic of the interaction be-tween creatine and adenylate kinase (enzyme).The interaction annotation can be hard for annota-tors to find due to that complexity and the subtle-ness of the ?in spite of?
phrase describing the ne-gated effect between the drug and gene.
The inte-raction is negated but that still is considered aninteraction by the annotation rules used.5.3  Future WorkAs mentioned before, the corpus will grow fromaround 500 sentences that it has right now toaround 1,500.
The larger the corpus expands to be,the more representative it will become of gene-drug interactions.
Other future work includes workwith more advanced interaction extraction systems.Along with this publication, a version ofthe corpus with high confidence in annotations willbe released.
Given that this is an initial work, arelatively modest amount of annotation revisionsmay occur with a few periodic later version releas-es of the corpus to improve its quality.Unfortunately no tagger is perfect so asannotations proceed, drugs or genes that weremissed by the tagger can be investigated to furtherunderstand why that occurred.
An example of acommonly missed drug was acetylcholine.
Ace-tylcholine was picked up as a drug if it was spelledout, but not if it was abbreviated as ACh and it iscommonly abbreviated.6 ConclusionThe extraction results indicated that the systemstested can be utilized and built upon according touser preferences in precision, recall, or specificinteraction terms.
The corpus presented here offersvaluable utility to system developers working to-ward achieving favorable balances of precision andrecall in gene-drug interaction extractions.
Thegrowth of that corpus will also increasingly benefitthe developers working on those extractions.
Thattype of extraction is important to advancing workin pharmacogenomics by retrieving knowledge forindividuals working in the field.AcknowledgementsThe authors wish to thank Ehsan Emadzadeh forhis help with the annotation tool and Robert Lea-man for his help with annotation methods.221ReferencesAhlers, C., Fiszman, M., Demner-Fushman, D.,Lang, F.-M., & Rindflesch, T. (2007).
Extractingsemantic predications from Medline citations forpharmacogenomics.
Pacific Symposium on Bio-computing.
Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing,209?220.Bui, Q.-C., Nuall?in, B. O., Boucher, C. A., &Sloot, P. M. A.
(2010).
Extracting causal relationson HIV drug resistance from literature.
BMC Bio-informatics, 11, 101. doi:10.1186/1471-2105-11-101Cheng, D., Knox, C., Young, N., Stothard, P., Da-maraju, S., & Wishart, D. S. (2008).
PolySearch: aweb-based text mining system for extracting rela-tionships between human diseases, genes, muta-tions, drugs and metabolites.
Nucleic Acids Re-search, 36(Web Server issue), W399?405.doi:10.1093/nar/gkn296Chowdhary, R., Zhang, J., & Liu, J. S. (2009).Bayesian inference of protein-protein interactionsfrom biological literature.
Bioinformatics (Oxford,England), 25(12), 1536?1542.doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btp245Coulet, A., Shah, N. H., Garten, Y., Musen, M., &Altman, R. B.
(2010).
Using text to build semanticnetworks for pharmacogenomics.
Journal of Bio-medical Informatics, 43(6), 1009?1019.doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2010.08.005Garten, Y., & Altman, R. B.
(2009).
Pharmspresso:a text mining tool for extraction of pharmacoge-nomic concepts and relationships from full text.BMC Bioinformatics, 10 Suppl 2, S6.doi:10.1186/1471-2105-10-S2-S6Hakenberg, J., Leaman, R., Vo, N. H., Jonnalagad-da, S., Sullivan, R., Miller, C., Tari, L., et al(2010).
Efficient extraction of protein-protein inte-ractions from full-text articles.
IEEE/ACM Trans-actions on Computational Biology and Bioinfor-matics / IEEE, ACM, 7(3), 481?494.doi:10.1109/TCBB.2010.51Hewett, M., Oliver, D. E., Rubin, D. L., Easton, K.L., Stuart, J. M., Altman, R. B., & Klein, T. E.(2002).
PharmGKB: The Pharmacogenetics Know-ledge Base.
Nucleic Acids Research, 30(1), 163?165.
doi:10.1093/nar/30.1.163Krallinger, M., Leitner, F., Rodriguez-Penagos, C.,& Valencia, A.
(2008).
Overview of the protein-protein interaction annotation extraction task ofBioCreative II.
Genome Biology, 9 Suppl 2, S4.doi:10.1186/gb-2008-9-s2-s4Leaman, R., & Gonzalez, G. (2008).
BANNER: anexecutable survey of advances in biomedicalnamed entity recognition.
Pacific Symposium onBiocomputing.
Pacific Symposium on Biocomput-ing, 652?663.Luis Tari, J?rg Hakenberg, Graciela Gonzalez, &Baral, C. (2009).
Querying parse tree database ofmedline text to synthesize user-specific biomolecu-lar networks.
CiteSeerX.
Retrieved fromhttp://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.140.8574Pyysalo, S., Ginter, F., Heimonen, J., Bj?rne, J.,Boberg, J., J?rvinen, J., & Salakoski, T. (2007).BioInfer: a corpus for information extraction in thebiomedical domain.
BMC Bioinformatics, 8, 50.doi:10.1186/1471-2105-8-50Rebholz-Schuhmann, D., Kirsch, H., Arregui, M.,Gaudan, S., Riethoven, M., & Stoehr, P. (2007).EBIMed?text Crunching to Gather Facts for Pro-teins from Medline.
Bioinformatics, 23(2), e237?e244.
doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btl302Sconce, E. A., Daly, A. K., Khan, T. I., Wynne, H.A., & Kamali, F. (2006).
APOE genotype makes asmall contribution to warfarin dose requirements.Pharmacogenetics and Genomics, 16(8), 609?611.doi:10.1097/01.fpc.0000220567.98089.b5Shepherd, A. J., & Clegg, A.
B.
(2008).
Syntacticpattern matching with GraphSpider and MPL.
Pro-ceedings of the Third International Symposium onSemantic Mining in Biomedicine SMBM 2008 Tur-ku Finland, 129?132.stav.
(n.d.).GitHub.
Retrieved March 26, 2012,from https://github.com/TsujiiLaboratory/stavStrijbos, J.-W., Martens, R. L., Prins, F. J., & Jo-chems, W. M. G. (2006).
Content analysis: Whatare they talking about?
Computers & Education,46(1), 29?48.
doi:10.1016/j.compedu.2005.04.002T1.pdf.
(n.d.).
Retrieved from http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2008/workshops/T1.pdfThe OpenNLP Homepage.
(n.d.).
Retrieved March26, 2012, fromhttp://opennlp.sourceforge.net/projects.htmlWishart, D. S. (2006).
DrugBank: a comprehensiveresource for in silico drug discovery and explora-tion.
Nucleic Acids Research, 34(90001), D668?D672.
doi:10.1093/nar/gkj067222
