Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Joint Workshop of LINGVIS & UNCLH, pages 7?15,Avignon, France, April 23 - 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsLexical Semantics and Distribution of Suffixes ?
A Visual AnalysisChristian Rohrdantz1 Andreas Niekler2 Annette Hautli1 Miriam Butt1 Daniel A. Keim11 University of Konstanzfirst.last@uni-konstanz.de2Leipzig University of Applied Sciencesaniekler@fbm.htwk-leipzig.deAbstractWe present a quantitative investigation ofthe cross-linguistic usage of some (rel-atively) newly minted derivational mor-phemes.
In particular, we examine the lexi-cal semantic content expressed by three suf-fixes originating in English: -gate, -geddonand -athon.
Using data from newspa-pers, we look at the distribution and lex-ical semantic usage of these morphemesnot only within English, but across sev-eral languages and also across time, witha time-depth of 20 years.
The occurrenceof these suffixes in available corpora arecomparatively rare, however, by investigat-ing huge amounts of data, we are able toarrive at interesting insights into the dis-tribution, meaning and spread of the suf-fixes.
Processing and understanding thehuge amounts of data is accomplished viavisualization methods that allow the pre-sentation of an overall distributional pic-ture, with further details and different typesof perspectives available on demand.1 IntroductionIt is well-known that parts of a compound can be-gin to lead an additional life as derivational suf-fixes, or even as stand-alone items.
A famousexample is burger, which is now used to denotea food-item (e.g., burger, cheese burger, veggieburger) and is originally from the word Ham-burger, which designates a person from the Ger-man city of Hamburg.
These morphemes are gen-erally known as cranberry morphemes (becauseof the prolific use of cran).
Some other examplesare -(o)nomics, -(o)mat or (o)rama.While it is well-known that this morpholog-ical process exists, it is less clear what condi-tions trigger it and how the coinage ?catches?
onto become a regular part of a language.
Giventhe current availability of huge amounts of dig-ital data, we decided to investigate whether wecould gain an insight into the use and spread ofsome of these morphemes via quantitative meth-ods, thereby confirming our intuitions.Furthermore, we decided to focus not just onthe use of the cranberry morphemes in their lan-guage of origin, but also on their use and spread inother languages.
In particular, we want to modelthe contexts in which these suffixes are used tocoin new words and how these neologisms trans-port to other languages.
We chose to look at thefollowing three morphemes: -gate, -geddon and-athon because they tend to be used in ?newswor-thy?
contexts and are therefore likely to appearin newswire and newspaper corpora, which areavailable to us in large amounts.This paper describes work in progress, wherewe visually analyze the lexical semantics and useof the three suffixes -gate, -geddon and -athon.We were able to add some time-depth to our in-vestigation via an analysis of the New York Timescorpus from 1987?2007.
This means that whilewe cannot pin-point the first occurrence and fur-ther spread of the morpheme uses, we can gainsome idea as to their historical development.Given that the amount of data we analyze ishuge, we use methods from Visual Analytics inorder to make the vast amount of information gen-erated from the computational models easily ac-cessible to the human eye and mind.We proceed as follows: After a review of re-lated work in Section 2, we describe our study inSection 3 and discuss the visual analysis in Sec-tion 4.
In a case study we compare the meaning of7words with the suffix -gate to other semanticallyrelated words (4.1) based on an optimized topicmodel.
We also develop, customize and apply vi-sualizations to investigate the productivity of newsuffixes and their spread across news sources andlanguages (4.2).
We conclude with Section 5.2 Related WorkAs already mentioned, the coinage and spread ofnew suffixes is well-known in theoretical linguis-tics.
However, linguists are generally not surewhat effects exactly are involved in the process(Baayen, 1992; Plag, 1999).
We are not aware ofany other computational work on cranberry mor-phemes.
Work by Lu?deling and Evert (2005) onthe German non-medical suffix -itis is closest tothis paper; however, the type of the morpheme in-vestigated is different and their focus is mainly onproductivity.
We concentrate more on the lexi-cal semantic content of the suffixes, look at themacross languages in bigger corpora to investigatetheir distribution and use and provide a layer ofvisual analysis.One question we asked ourselves is whetherwe could predict from the context the likelihoodof the suffixes -gate, -geddon and -athon andwhether one can identify the lexical semantic con-tent of the suffixes more precisely.
This task canbe formulated as a topic modeling problem forwhich we chose to employ Latent Dirichlet Al-location (LDA) (Blei et al, 2003).
It has recentlybeen used to perform word sense induction fromsmall word contexts (e.g.
Brody (2009)) and hasalso proven successful when detecting changes inword meanings over time on small word contextsin diachronic corpora (Rohrdantz et al, 2011).We applied an optimized topic model and com-bined the statistical results with methods fromVisual Analytics.
Visual Analytics is based onthe tight coupling of algorithms for automaticdata analysis and interactive visual components(Thomas and Cook, 2005; Keim et al, 2010).
Theidea is to exploit human perceptive abilities tosupport the detection of interesting patterns (seeCard et al (1999) for details).
Examples for visu-alizations used previously to investigate linguis-tic questions are Mayer et al (2010a) on vowelharmony, Mayer et al (2010b) on consonant pat-terns, Honkela et al (1995) on syntactic cate-gories, Rohrdantz et al (2011) on lexical seman-tics across time.We also used visualizations to look at cross-linguistic use and productivity of the suffixes.Prominent theoretical work on the productivity ofmorphemes has been done by Baayen (1992) andPlag (1999), most computational approaches haveworked on English due to the availability of largeenough corpora (Nishimoto, 2004).
To the best ofour knowledge, no large-scale quantitative studyhas been performed which takes into account boththe diachronic as well as the cross-linguistic di-mension of the development.3 Our Approach3.1 Research Questions & Analysis TasksThe object of research are three productive suf-fixes, namely -gate, geddon and -athon.
Whatthese suffixes have in common is that they trig-ger neologisms in various languages and all ofthem seem to carry some lexical semantic infor-mation.
Whereas -gate, which was coined by theWatergate affair, is used for scandalous events oraffairs, -geddon seems to denote a similar con-cept but more of a disastrous event, building on itsoriginal use in the bible.
Usually, -athon, comingfrom marathon, denotes a long-lasting event.
Weassume that the lexical semantic content of thesesuffixes can be modeled with standard topic mod-els.3.2 Data & StatisticsOur investigations are based on two different datasets, one is a diachronic news corpus, the NewYork Times Annotated Corpus1 containing 1.8million newspaper articles from 1987 to 2007.
Togenerate the second data set, we performed an on-line scan of the EMM news service,2 which linksto multilingual news articles from all over theworld and enriches them with metada (Atkinsonand der Goot, 2009; Krstajic et al, 2010).
Be-tween May 2009 and January 2012, we scannedabout eleven million news articles in English,German and French.For both data sources, we extract a context of25 words before and after the word under inves-tigation, together with its timestamp.
In the caseof the EMM data, we also save information on thenews source, the source country and the languageof the article.
In a manual postprocessing step, we1http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/2http://emm.newsexplorer.eu/8clean the dataset from words ending in the suffixesby coincidence, many of which are proper namesof persons and locations.From the EMM metadata, we can attribute theemployment of the suffixes to the countries theywere used in.
Table 1 shows the figures for the-gate suffix, what language it was used in, andits country of origin.
We can see that the suffixwas used in many countries and different worldregions between May 2009 and January 2012.Lang.
CountryEnglish GB (1142), USA (840), Ireland(364), Pakistan (275), South Africa(190), India (131), Australia (129),Canada (117), Zimbabwe (73)French France (2089), Switzerland (429),Belgium (108), Senegal (30)German Germany (493), Switzerland (151),Austria (151)Table 1: Usage of the suffix -gate in different lan-guages/countries.
For each language only the coun-tries with the most occurrences are listed.Among the total 7,500 -gate appearances,Rubygate ?
the affair of Italian?s ex prime min-ister Silvio Berlusconi with an under-aged girlfrom Morocco ?
was the most frequent word with1558 matches, followed by Angolagate with 1025matches and Climategate with 752 matches.
TheNYT corpus has 1,000 matches of -gate words,the top ones were Iraqgate with 148, Travelgatewith 122, and Irangate with 105 matches.
Thefrequency of -geddon and -athon was much lower.3.3 Topic ModelingThe task of the topic modeling in this paper is todiscover meaning relationships between our thesuffixes and semantically related words, i.e.
wewant to determine from the word contexts whether-gate words share context features with wordssuch as scandal or affair.
For this task, we useLDA, which describes a generative hierarchicalBayesian model that relates the words and doc-uments within a corpus through a latent variable.The interpretation of this latent variable could beseen as topics that are responsible for the usageof words within the documents.
Within the LDAframework we can describe the generation of adocument by the following process1.
draw K multinomials ?k ?
Dir(?k), one foreach topic k2.
for each document d, d = 1, .
.
.
, D(a) draw multinomial ?d ?
Dir(?d)(b) for each word wdn in document d, n =1, .
.
.
, Ndi.
draw a topic zdn ?Multinomial(?d)ii.
draw a wordwdn from p(wdn|?zdn),the multinomial probability condi-tioned on topic zdnFollowing this generative process we identify thehidden variables for every document in a corpusby computing the posterior distribution:p(?, ?, z|w, ?, ?)
=p(?, ?, z,w|?, ?
)p(w|?, ?).
(1)Exact inference for this posterior distributionis not tractable and we use collapsed Gibbs sam-pling as in Griffiths and Steyver (2004).
We com-pute the posterior distribution over all variablesand model parameters instead of inferring ?
and?
directly.
The Gibbs sampling procedure sam-ples a topic zdn for each word in all documentsof the corpus.
This procedure is iterated untilthe approximated posterior distribution does notchange the likelihood of the model with more it-erations.
As a result we get a sampled topic zdnfor each word in the corpus and can trace ?
and?.
For our problem we can use the counts of zdn,the count of words belonging to a topic, for eachdocument in combination with the timestamps tosee which word in question appears how often ina specific topic in which time slice.
This allowsus to observe the usage of a word within a cer-tain timespan.
The hidden variable ?
can be in-terpreted as a matrix having the conditional prob-ability p(wi|zk) at the matrix position ?i,k.
Thismeans that every column vector in ?
is a probabil-ity distribution over the whole vocabulary.
Thesedistributions can be seen as topics since they de-scribe a mixture of words with exact probabilities.Having those distributions at hand we can analyzewhich words occur significantly often in the sametopic or semantic context.The purpose of the LDA model is to analyze thelatent structure of the passages extracted from theNYT corpus.
We decided to use the contexts ofWatergate, scandal, affair, crisis, controversy incombination with the suffix -gate.
We can then90 = society, art, cultureSociety, Art,and CultureWatergateEconomyForeignPolicyDomesticPolicySportsSociety, Art,and CultureWatergateEconomyForeignPolicyDomesticPolicySports1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 19971998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007Figure 1: The diachronic distribution of the words under investigation over the 6 topics learned from the NewYork Times Corpus.10see where these terms co-occur and hence whatthe semantic context is.
We infer a model whichconsists of six topics under the assumption that ifthe word senses of the six words given above donot overlap at all, there should not be more thansix senses to analyze.
The fixed parameter K inthe model leads us to an optimization problem ofthe hyper-parameter ?.
The hyper-parameter ?is not as important as ?
since it scales the topicper document mixture.
For that reason we do notoptimize ?
explicitly.
We rather estimate the opti-mal value after optimizing the value for ?.
Sincethe ?
parameter is of crucial impact to the gener-ation of the hidden variable ?
and thus the topics,we need to find the optimal hyper-parameter thatgeneralizes the model to the given data.
Most ap-proaches show that one can optimize the modelfor fixed parameters ?
and ?
when testing mod-els with different values for K as in (Griffiths andSteyver, 2004).
Since we are fixing K we musttest the dataset for an optimal model given differ-ent values for ?.
This can be done by utilizingthe model perplexity (Blei et al, 2003) and thusmaximizing the likelihood of a test dataset fromthe same corpus.In our experiment we used a relatively smallnumber of topics and we expected a large numberof words aligned to a topic.4 Visual Analytics4.1 Topic ModelingThe topics extracted from the NYT corpus by themodel described in Section 3.3 was further inves-tigated with respect to the correlation between thelexical semantic content of the suffixed words anda development over time.
For this purpose we de-signed a pixel visualization (see Figure 1), map-ping the data facets to the visual variables as fol-lows: The data is divided according to the topicsmapping each topic to one horizontal band.
Thedescriptive words of a topic as found by LDA arelisted above its band.
In addition, each topic ismanually assigned an interpretive label.
These la-bels are at the far left of a topic band.Each topic band is further subdivided accordingto the words under investigation.
Under the label?gate-aggregated?, all words with -gate suffixes(except Watergate) are summarized.
The bandsare aligned with a time axis and vertically dividedinto cells, each cell representing one week of data.The cell color indicates whether the correspond-ing word under investigation occurred within thecorresponding topic in the corresponding week.The black color means that there was no such oc-currence, whereas the brightest white is assignedto the cell of the week where most occurrences(max) of a word under investigation are found,independent from the topic.
Other occurrencecounts are colored in grey tones according to a lin-ear mapping into the normalized color range fromblack=0 to white=max.
Note that the normaliza-tion depends on the word under investigation, i.e.is relative to its maximal occurrence.In Figure 1, the data has to be split into twochunks to fit the page.
The upper part shows theyears from 1987 to 1997 and the lower part from1997 to 2007.
There are several possibilities foruser interaction: A semantic zoom allows the datato be displayed in different levels of time granu-larity, e.g.
day, week, month, year.
By mousingover a cell, the underlying text passages are dis-played in a tooltip.Findings Figure 1 shows that the topics aredominated by different words under investiga-tion, i.e.
the words under investigation cannot beclearly separated into self-contained meanings.This mixture indicates that the words underinvestigation have similar meanings, but thatin different contexts they are used in differentcombinations:1.
Society, Art, and Culture: This seems to bethe most general topic with the broadest usage ofthe words under investigation.
The descriptiveterms show that it is a lot about interpersonal re-lations and dominated by ?affair?.
In 1989/1990the play Mastergate becomes visible in the?gate-aggregated?
band.2.
Economy: This topic is strongly related to?crisis?
and apart from the moderate frequencyof ?scandal?, other words are rarely used in thiscontext.
Apparently, financial scandals wereusually not described attaching the suffix ?-gate?in the years between 1987 and 2007.3.
Foreign Policy: This is another topic domi-nated by ?crisis?, with moderate occurrences of?controversy?.
Some ?gate-words?
also appear.4.
Sports: Here, ?controversy?
is the dominatingelement, with a raised frequency of ?affair?
andsmall frequency of ?scandal?.
Again, ?gate-words?
appear from time to time, with a slightly11increased frequency towards the end.5.
Domestic Politics: The dominant words are?controversy?
and ?crisis?.
It?s noteworthy that?controversy?
is a lot more frequent here thanfor Foreign Policy.
Especially in the last years?gate-words?
appeared from time to time.In sum, we find that there are preferred contextsin which -gate is used, namely mainly in topics todo with society, art and culture and that topics todo with the economy, -gate is hardly used.
Thelexical semantic content of -gate seems to be mostclosely linked to the word affair.4.2 ProductivityThe cases of suffixation presented above shouldalso be considered from the standpoint of mor-phological productivity.
For Baayen (1992), mor-phological productivity is a complex phenomenonin which factors like the structure of the lan-guage, its processing complexities and social con-ventions mingle.
Whereas he focuses on the thecorrelation between productivity and frequency,we can take into account another variable for pro-ductivity.
In particular, we can consider the num-ber of newspapers that use a certain term.
Thiswill normalize the measures usually taken in thata term like ?Watergate?, which is highly frequentand mentioned in a variety of sources is moreproductive than a term that occurs frequently, butonly in one source.
Using this methodology wecan at least partly circumvent the problem of pro-ductivity effects that are merely based on the spe-cific style of one particular newspaper.First, we visually evaluate the productivity ofthe different suffixes plotting the sum of differentcoinages against time, see Figure 2.
As can be ex-pected, in all three cases there is a steeper slope inthe beginning of the monitored period.
This is anartifact because all older coinages that had beenaround before the monitoring started will be ob-served for the first time.
As more time passes allplots show a linear overall trend, indicating thatthe rate with which new coinages appear remainssomewhat constant.
Yet, there are some local os-cillations in the rate that become more visible inthe plots of -geddon- and -athon-coinages, whichare in general much more infrequent than -gate-coinages.
It can be concluded that over the lasttwo and a half years the suffixes kept their rateof productivity in English, German, and Frenchnewswire texts fairly constant.To investigate the cross-linguistic productivityof the new coinages we customized a visualiza-tion with the Tableau software.3 Figure 3 showsthe appearances of the 15 most frequent -gate-coinages across the three languages over time.Along the y-axis the data is divided according to-gate-coinages and languages, whereas the x-axisencodes the time.
Whenever a certain coinage ap-pears in a certain language at a certain point intime, a colored triangle is plotted to the corre-sponding position.
The color redundantly encodesthe language for easier interpretation.Figure 3 shows many interesting patterns.
Themost salient patterns can be summarized as:1.
No language barrier: The top -gate-coinagesbelong to scandals that are of internationalinterest and once they are coined in English theyimmediately spread to the other languages, seeRubygate, Climategate, Cablegate, Antennagate,and Crashgate.
Only in the case of Angolagateand Karachigate there is a certain delay in thespread, possibly due to the fact that it was coinedin French first and initially did not achieve thesame attention as coinages in English.2.
Pertinacity partly depends on language:Some -gate-coinages re-appear over and overagain only in individual languages.
This espe-cially holds for words that were coined beforethe monitoring started, e.g.
Sachsgate, Oilgate,Troopergate, and Travelgate which all persist inEnglish.
Examples can be found for other lan-guages, e.g.
Angolagate for French.
Interestingly,in German Nipplegate persists over the wholemonitored period, but only in German, and evenoutperforms its German spelling Nippelgate.3.
Some coinages are special: Some of therecent coinages such as Memogate, Asiagate, andWeinergate reach an extremely high frequencywithin very short time ranges, but can be foundalmost exclusively in English.
These will besubject of further investigation in Section 4.2.1.It has to be noted that many of the infrequentcoinages appear only once and are never adopted.4.2.1 Spread across News Sources andCountriesFigure 3 clearly shows that Memogate is heav-ily mentioned within English speaking news3http://www.tableausoftware.com/12SumofdifferentcoinagesSumofdifferentcoinagesSumofdifferentcoinagesdays days daysDifferent geddon-coinages over time Different athon-coinages over time Different gate-coinages over timeFigure 2: The number of different coinages containing the suffixes under investigation (on the y-axis) plottedagainst the number of days passed during the monitoring process (on the x-axis)Data  usedin Figure  4PDWFK ODQJXDJH$SU $XJ 'H] $SU $XJ 'H] $SU $XJ 'H]7DJYRQHPPBSXEOLFDWLRQGDWH:XOIJDWH H<DFKWJDWH HQ<DFKWVJDWH HQ<HRQJSRJDWH HQ<HRQJSRJDWH HQ<RXQJSRJDWH HQ<XQXVJDWH HQ=DKLDJDWH IU=LIDJDWH HQ=LPEDEZHJDWH HQ=LQHEJDWH IU=LSSHUJDWH HQ=LVFRJDWH HQ=RUEDJDWH HQ=XPDJDWH HQ%ODWODQJXDJHGHHQIUHPPBSXEOLFDWLRQGDWH7DJI?UMHGHODQJXDJHXQWHUWHLOWQDFKPDWFK)DUEH]HLJW'HWDLOV]XODQJXDJHDQ'HWDLOVZHUGHQI?UFRQWH[WXQGHPPBVRXUFHBFRXQWU\DQJH]HLJW'LH$QVLFKWZLUGXQWHUODQJXDJHXQGPDWFKJHILOWHUW'HU)LOWHUODQJXDJHVFKOLH?W,/XQG]KDXV'HU)LOWHUPDWFKVFKOLH?W1RWIDOVWURPDJUHJDWH1RWVURPDJJUHJDWH1RWVWURPDJJHJDWHXQG1RWVWURPDJUHJDWHDXVFigure 3: The appearances of the 15 most frequent -gate coinages over time and across the different languages13Figure 4: Detailed analysis of the Memogate cluster highlighted in Figure 3 using alternative visual mappings:Sequence of spread over different countries and news sources.sources within a short time range.
We developeda further visualization that shows how these men-tions sequentially distribute over different newssources and countries.
In Figure 4 each articlementioning Memogate is represented by a col-ored icon.
The y-axis position encodes the newssource, the x-axis position encodes the temporalorder of the occurrences.
Note that exact timedifferences are omitted to make the display morecompact.
The shape of an icon indicates the lan-guage of the article; Circles (English) heavilydominate.
The color encodes the country of originof the news source, here green (Pakistan), yellow(India), and purple (USA) dominate.Findings: While the first three mentions ofMemogate could be found in British and Amer-ican Newspapers, early on it was adopted byhttp://tribune.com.pk/ in Pakistan (fourth linefrom the top) and used so heavily that it kept beingadopted and became constantly used by furthersources from Pakistan and also India.
Apparently,individual sources may have a huge influence onthe spread of a new coinage.5 Future work and conclusionWe have presented initial experiments with re-spect to the application of topic modeling and vi-sualization to gain a better understanding of de-velopments in morphological coinage and lexicalsemantics.
We investigated three relatively newproductive suffixes, namely -gate, -geddon, and-athon based on their occurrences in newswiredata.
Even though our data set was huge, the oc-currences of the suffixes are comparatively rareand so we only had enough data for -gate to inves-tigate the contexts it occurs in with an optimizedtopic modeling.
The results indicate that it is usedin broader contexts than affair, with which it ismost related.
Different domains of usage could bedistinguished, even though a clear developmentover time could not be detected based the NYTcorpus.
Investigating the multilingual newswiredata it became evident that all three suffixes un-der investigation have a relatively stable rate ofappearance.
Many more different -gate-coinagescould be found, though.
We could observe that-gate was usually attached to one specific singleevent, and especially in many of the less frequentcoinages the suffix was combined with propernames of persons, institutions, or locations.
Incontrast, -athon and -mageddon coinages seem tobe easier to generalize.
For example, the two mostwidely spread coinages Snowmageddon and Car-mageddon, while initially referring to a certainsnow storm and a certain traffic jam, have beenapplied to further such events and can be foundlisted in resources such as the Urban Dictionary.4In conclusion, we demonstrated that visualanalyses can help to gain insight and generate newhypotheses about the behavior of the distributionand use of new morphemes.
In our future researchwe aim to investigate how much the success of acertain coinage depends on the event as such andits news dynamics, and what role linguistic fea-tures like e.g.
phonology (two vs. three syllables,etc.)
might play.4http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Carmageddon14AcknowledgmentsThis work has partly been funded by the ResearchInitiative ?Computational Analysis of LinguisticDevelopment?
at the University of Konstanz andby the German Research Society (DFG) under thegrant GK-1042, Explorative Analysis and Visu-alization of Large Information Spaces, Konstanz.The authors would like to thank Volker Rehbergfor his programming support and Thomas Mayerfor comments on previous versions of the paper.ReferencesMartin Atkinson and Erik Van der Goot.
2009.
Nearreal time information mining in multilingual news.In Juan Quemada, Gonzalo Leo?n, Yoe?lle S. Maarek,and Wolfgang Nejdl, editors, Proceedings of the18th International Conference on World Wide Web,WWW 2009, Madrid, Spain, April 20-24, 2009,pages 1153?1154.R.
Harald Baayen.
1992.
On frequency, transparency,and productivity.
Yearbook of Morphology, pages181?208.David M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan.2003.
Latent dirichlet alocation.
Journal of Ma-chine Learning Research, 3:993?1022.Samuel Brody and Mirella Lapata.
2009.
Bayesianword sense induction.
In Proceedings of the 12thConference of the European Chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, EACL ?09,pages 103?111, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Stuart K. Card, Jock D. Mackinlay, and Ben Shneider-man, editors.
1999.
Readings in information visu-alization: using vision to think.
Morgan KaufmannPublishers Inc., San Francisco, CA, USA.Thomas L. Griffiths and Mark Steyver.
2004.
Find-ing scientific topics.
In Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of Sciences 101, pages 5228?5235.Timo Honkela, Ville Pulkki, and Teuvo Kohonen.1995.
Contextual relations of words in grimm tales,analyzed by self-organizing map.
In Proceedings ofInternational Conference on Artificial Neural Net-works (ICANN-95), pages 3?7.Daniel A. Keim, Joern Kohlhammer, Geoffrey Ellis,and Florian Mansmann, editors.
2010.
MasteringThe Information Age - Solving Problems with VisualAnalytics.
Goslar: Eurographics.Milos Krstajic, Florian Mansmann, Andreas Stoffel,Martin Atkinson, and Daniel A. Keim.
2010.
Pro-cessing Online News Streams for Large-Scale Se-mantic Analysis.
In Proceedings of the 1st Inter-national Workshop on Data Engineering meets theSemantic Web (DESWeb 2010).Anke Lu?deling and Stefan Evert.
2005.
The emer-gence of productive non-medical -itis.
corpus ev-idence and qualitative analysis.
In S. Kepserand M. Reis, editors, Linguistic Evidence.
Empir-ical, Theoretical, and Computational Perspectives,pages 351?370.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.Thomas Mayer, Christian Rohrdantz, Miriam Butt,Frans Plank, and Daniel Keim.
2010a.
Visualiz-ing vowel harmony.
Journal of Linguistic Issues inLanguage Technology (LiLT), 4(2).Thomas Mayer, Christian Rohrdantz, Frans Plank,Peter Bak, Miriam Butt, and Daniel A. Keim.2010b.
Consonant co-occurrence in stems acrosslanguages: Automatic analysis and visualization ofa phonotactic constraint.
In Proceedings of the ACL2010 Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Findingthe Common Ground (NLPLING 2010), pages 67?75.Eiji Nishimoto.
2004.
Defining new words in corpusdata: Productivity of english suffixes in the britishnational corpus.
In 26th Annual Meeting of theCognitive Science Society.Ingo Plag.
1999.
Morphological productivity.
Struc-tural constraints in English derivation.
Berlin/NewYork: Mouton de Gruyter.Christian Rohrdantz, Annette Hautli, Thomas Mayer,Miriam Butt, Daniel A. Keim, and Frans Plank.2011.
Towards tracking semantic change by vi-sual analytics.
In Proceedings of the 49th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics: Human Langauge Technologies (ACL-HLT ?11): shortpapers, pages 305?310, Portland,Oregon.
Association for Computational Linguistics.James J. Thomas and Kristin A. Cook.
2005.
Illu-minating the Path The Research and DevelopmentAgenda for Visual Analytics.
National Visualizationand Analytics Center.15
