Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 69?71,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsPLUTO: Automated Solutions for Patent TranslationiJohn Tinsley, Alexandru Ceausu, Jian ZhangCentre for Next Generation LocalisationSchool of ComputingDublin City University, Ireland{jtinsley;aceausu;jzhang}@computing.dcu.ie1 IntroductionPLUTO is a commercial development projectsupported by the European Commission as partof the FP7 programme which aims to eliminatethe language barriers that exist worldwide in theprovision of multilingual access to patent infor-mation.
The project consortium comprises fourpartners: the Centre for Next Generation Locali-sation at Dublin City University,1 ESTeam AB,2CrossLang, 3  and the Dutch Patent InformationUser Group (WON).4 Research and developmentis carried out in close collaboration with usergroups and intellectual property (IP) profession-als to ensure solutions and software are deliveredthat meet actual user needs.1.1 The need for patent translationThe number of patent applications filedworldwide is continually increasing, with over1.8 million new filings in 2010 alone.
Yet De-spite the fact that patents are filed in dozens ofdifferent languages, language barriers are no ex-cuse in the case of infringement.
When carryingour prior-art and other searches IP professionalsmust ensure they include collections which en-compass all potential relevant patents.
Suchsearches will typically return results ?
a set ofpatent documents ?
30% of which will be in aforeign language.As professional translation for patents is sucha specialist task, translators command a premiumfee for this service, often up to ?0.50 per wordfor Asian languages.
This often results in high orunworkable translation costs for innovators.While free machine translation (MT) tools suchas Google translate have unquestionably beenbeneficial in helping to reduce the need to resort1 www.cngl.ie2 www.esteam.se3 www.crosslang.com4 www.won-nl.comto expensive human translation, the quality isstill often inadequate as the models are too gen-eral to cope with the intricacies of patent text.In what follows, we will provide an overviewof some of the technologies being developed inPLUTO to address the need for higher qualityMT solutions for patents and how these are de-ployed for the benefit of IP professionals.2 Language Technology for PatentsPatent translation is a unique task given thestyle of language used in patent documents.
Thislanguage, so-called ?patentese?, typically com-prises a mixture of highly-specific technical ter-minology and legal jargon and is often writtenwith the express purpose of obfuscating the in-tended meaning.
For example, in 2001 an inno-vation was granted in Australia for a ?CircularTransportation Facilitation Device?, i.e.
a wheel.5Patents are also characterised by a prolifera-tion of extremely long sentences, complex chem-ical formula, and other constructs which makethe task for MT more difficult.2.1 Domain-specfic machine translationThe patent translation systems used inPLUTO have been built using the MaTrEx MTframework (Armstrong et al, 2006).
The systemsare domain specific in that they have beentrained exclusively using parallel patent corpora.A number of experiments related to domain ad-aptation of the language and translation modelshave been carried out in the context of these sys-tems.
The principal findings from this work werethat systems combining all available patent datafor a given language were preferable (Ceausu etal.
2011).5http://pericles.ipaustralia.gov.au/aub/pdf/nps/2002/0808/2001100012A4/2001100012.pdf69Significant pre-processing techniques are alsoapplied to the input text to account for specificfeatures of patent language.
For instance, sen-tence splitting based on the marker hypothesis(Green, 1979) is used to reduce long sentences tomore manageable lengths, while named-entityrecognition is applied to isolate certain struc-tures, such as chemical compounds and refer-ences to figures, in order to treat them in aspecific manner.Additionally, various language-specific tech-niques are used for relevant MT systems.
Forexample, a technique called word packing (Ma etal., 2007), is exploited for Chinese?English.This is a bilingually motivated task which im-proves the precision of word alignment by ?pack-ing?
several consecutive words together whichcorrespond to a single word in the correspondinglanguage.Japanese?English is a particularly challeng-ing pair due to the divergent word ordering be-tween the two languages.
To overcome this, weemploy preordering of the input text (Talbot etal.
2011) in order to harmonise the word orderingbetween the two languages and reduce the likeli-hood of ordering errors.
This is done using arule-based technique called head-finalisation(Isozaki et al, 2010) which moves the Englishsyntactic head towards the end of the phrase toemulate the Japanese word order.Finally, we use compound splitting and truecasing modules for our English?German MTsystems in order to reduce the occurrence of out-of-vocabulary words.2.2 Translation memory integrationIn order to further improve the translationquality, we are developing an engine to automat-ically combine the outputs of the MT system anda translation memory (TM).The engine works by taking a patent docu-ment as input and searching for full matches onparagraph, sentence, and segment (sub-sentential) level in the TM.
If no full matches arefound, fuzzy matches are sought above a prede-termined threshold and combined with the outputof the MT system using phrase- and word-levelalignment information.For patents, most leverage from the TM isseen at segment level, particularly as the patentclaims are often written using quite a rigid struc-ture.
This is due to that fact that, as patents typi-cally describe something novel which may neverhave been written about previously, there is oftenlittle repetition of full sentences.2.3 EvaluationThe performance of the patent MT systems inPLUTO is evaluated using a range of methodsaimed not only at gauging general quality, butalso identifying areas for improvement and rela-tive performance against similar systems.In addition to assessing the MT systems usingautomatic evaluation metrics such as BLEU(Papineni et al, 2002) and METEOR (Banerjeeet al 2005), large-scale human evaluations arealso carried out.
MT system output is rankedfrom 1?5 based on the overall quality of transla-tion, and individual translation errors are identi-fied and classified in an error categorisation task.On top of this standalone evaluation, thePLUTO MT systems are also benchmarkedagainst leading commercial systems across twoMT paradigms: Google Translate for statisticalMT and Systran (Enterprise) for rule-based MT.A comparative analysis is carried out using boththe automatic and human evaluation techniquesdescribed above.
This comparison is also appliedto the output of the PLUTO MT systems and theoutput of the integrated TM/MT system in orderto quantify the improvements achieved using thetranslation memories.The main findings from the first round ofevaluations for our French?English and Portu-guese?English systems showed that our MTsystems score relatively high based on humanjudgments -- 3.8 out of 5 on average -- while be-ing ranked higher than the commercial systemsapproximately 75% of the time.
More details onthese experiments can be found in Ceausu et al(2011).3 Patent Translation Web ServiceThe PLUTO MT systems are deployed as aweb service (Tinsley et al, 2010).
The main en-try point for end users is through a web browserplugin which allows them to access translationson-the-fly regardless of the search engine beingused to find relevant patents.
In addition to thebrowser plugin, users also have the option to in-put text directly or upload patent documents in anumber of formats including PDF and MS Word.A number of further natural language pro-cessing techniques are exploited to improve theuser experience.
N-gram based language identifi-cation is used to send input to the correct MTsystem; while frequency based keyword extrac-70tion provides users with potentially importantterms with which to carry out subsequent search-es.Corresponding source and target segments arehighlighted on both word and phrase level, whileusers have the option of post-editing translationswhich are stored in a personal terminology data-base and applied to future translations.The entire framework has been designed tofacilitate the patent professional in their dailyworkflow.
It provides them with a consistency oftranslation quality and features regardless of thesearch tools being used to locate relevant patents.This has been validated through extensive us-er experience testing which included a usabilityevaluation of the translation output.4 Looking ForwardThe PLUTO project has been running for justover two years and is scheduled to end in March2013.
Our goal by that time is to have establisheda viable commercial offering to capitalize on thestate-of-the-art research and development intoautomated patent translation.In the meantime, we will continue to buildupon our existing work by building MT systemsfor additional language pairs and iteratively im-proving upon our baseline translation perfor-mance.
Significant effort will also be spent onoptimising the integration of translation memo-ries with MT using techniques such as those de-scribed in He et al (2011).AcknowledgementsThe PLuTO project (ICT-PSP-250416) isfunded under the European Union's ICT PolicySupport Programme as part of the Competitive-ness and Innovation Framework ProgrammeReferencesArmstrong, S., M. Flanagan, Y. Graham, D.Groves, B. Mellebeek, S. Morrissey, N.Stroppa and A.
Way.
2006.
MaTrEx: Ma-chine Translation Using Examples.
TC-STAROpenLab on Speech Translation.
Trento, Ita-ly.Banerjee, S. and Lavie, A.
(2005).
METEOR: AnAutomatic Metric for MT Evaluation with Im-proved Correlation with Human Judgments.In Proceedings of Workshop on Intrinsic andExtrinsic Evaluation Measures for MT and/orSummarization at the 43th Annual Meeting ofthe Association of Computational Linguistics(ACL-05), Ann Arbor, MI.Ceausu, Alexandru, John Tinsley, Andrew Way,Jian Zhang, Paraic Sheridan, Experiments onDomain Adaptation for Patent MachineTranslation in the PLuTO project, The 15thAnnual Conference of the European Associa-tion for Machine Translation, EAMT-2011,Leuven, BelgiumGreen, T., The necessity of syntax markers.
twoexperiments with artificial languages.
Journalof Verbal Learning and Behavior,18:481{496}, 1979.Isozaki, H., Sudoh, K., Tsukada, H., and Duh, K.Head finalization: A simple reordering rulefor SOV languages.
In Proceedings of the 5thWorkshop on Machine Translation (WMT),Upsala, Sweden.Ma, Yanjun, Nicolas Stroppa, and Andy Way.2007.
Boostrapping Word Alignment viaWord Packing.
In Proceedings of the 45th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL 2007), Prague, CzechRepublic, pp.304?311Papineni, K., Roukos, S.,Ward, T., and Zhu,W.-J.
(2002).
BLEU: a Method for AutomaticEvaluationof Machine Translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(ACL-02), pages 311?318, Philadelphia, PA.Talbot, David, Hideto Kazawa, Hiroshi Ichikwa,Jason Katz-Brown, Masakazu Seno, FranzOch A Lightweight Evaluation Framework forMachine Translation Reordering, In Proceed-ings of the Sixth Workshop on Statistical Ma-chine Translation (July 2011), Edinburgh,Scotland.pp.
12-21Tinsley, J., A.
Way and P. Sheridan2010.
PLuTO: MT for Online Patent Transla-tion In Proceedings of the 9th Conferences ofthe Association for Machine Translation in theAmericas.
Denver, CO, USA.i This paper is an extended abstract intended to accom-pany an oral presentation.
It is not intended to be astandalone scientific article.71
