Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature, pages 97?104,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards a computational approach to literary text analysisAntonio RoqueComputer Science DepartmentUniversity of California, Los Angelesantonio@roque-brown.netAbstractWe consider several types of literary-theoretic ap-proaches to literary text analysis; we describe sev-eral concepts from Computational Linguistics andArtificial Intelligence that could be used to modeland support them.1 Problem StatementConsider the first sentence of the novel Finnegan'sWake (Joyce, 1939):riverrun, past Eve and Adam's,  from swerve ofshore to bend of bay, brings us by a commodiusvicus of recirculation back to Howth Castle andEnvirons.To computationally analyze this sentence as literat-ure, we must understand that its meaning is morethan the combination of its semantic components.The  rubric  of  "who  did  what  to  whom,  when,where, and why" will at best lead us only to under-stand that somewhere, probably in Ireland, a riveris flowing.Some  obvious  low-level  tasks  to  improve  ourreading  include:  exploring  the  meaning  of  non-standard  capitalization  and  spacing,  as  in"riverrun";  resolving allusions,  such as  "Eve andAdam's," and considering the significance of vari-ations from common phrasings1;; identifying allit-erated phrases such as "swerve of shore" and "bendof  bay"  and considering their  effect;  recognizingtone shifts such as "commodius vicus of recircula-1 For example, the quotation-delimited phrase "Adam andEve" returns over 12 million Google results but "Eve andAdam" only returns around 200,000 (as of March 28, 2012.
)tion," and resolving any allusions they may indic-ate; identifying the significance of named entitiessuch as "Howth Castle and Environs"2; exploringthe effect of the line's syntax on reception, as de-scribed by writing scholars (Tufte, 2006).But becoming absorbed in these admittedly in-teresting questions threatens to distract us from thelarger  questions  that  literary  theorists  have  beenstudying for over a century.
Those questions in-clude:?
what interpretation is  the "gold standard"by which others should be judged?
Is itthe meaning intended by the author?
Is itthe significance of the text to the readers(and if so, which readers?)
Or is the mean-ing  of  a  literary  text  inherent  in  how  ittakes part in a system and process of lan-guage use??
what metrics can tell us whether one inter-pretation is better than another??
how should we model the literary text as itrelates to the larger body of language use,which includes both literary and nonliter-ary texts as well as everyday situated lan-guage use by intelligent agents?
What fea-tures are necessary and sufficient to repres-ent  the  way  meaning  (both  literary  andnon-literary)  is  created  and  establishedamong language-using populations?
Howis this meaning tied both to an intelligent2 For example: do they have an appearance or other attributethat would commonly be brought to mind?
Are there associ-ations that would normally be suggested to members of a giv-en community of language use?
cf.
the significance of theWatergate office complex in American communities of polit-ical discourse.97agent's  abstract  beliefs  as  well  as  thatagent's  moment-to-moment  understandingof its environment?The wording of these questions is slanted to sug-gest their utility to computational linguistics.
First,we may want to know how much of the meaning ofa literary text comes from the author as opposed tofrom our situated interpretation of the text or froma  language  system3.
Second,  evaluation  metricswould help us determine whether or not the per-formance  of  an automated literary system is  im-proving.
Finally,  we would benefit  from the ex-planations of a computational model  of a literarytext's meaning as it emerges from the situated read-ing of an authored artifact in the context of a multi-agent  language system;  if  nothing  else,  it  wouldtell us how to design algorithms that both consumeand produce literary artifacts in human-like ways.2 ApproachComputationally, the questions in Section 1 arelikely to be answered over the course of decadesrather than years.
Contemporary relevant researchfrom the fields of Computational Linguistics (CL)and Artificial Intelligence (AI) includes: semanticanalysis of narratives (Elson and McKeown, 2009,Finlayson,  2011);  summarizing  fiction  (Mani,2005; Kazantseva and Szpakowicz, 2010) and per-forming information-extraction on fiction (Elson etal,  2010); modeling affect and reader-response innarrative  (Mani,  2010;  McQuiggan,  2010;  Mo-hammad, 2011; Francisco et al, 2011); propertiesof narrative such as novelty (Peinado et al, 2010)and irony (Utsumi, 2004); models of discourse innarrative (Polanyi et al, 2004; Goyal et al, 2010);computational models of aesthetic creativity (Ger-v?s et al, 2009); and the automatic generation ofprose (Callaway and Lester, 2002) and poetry (Ma-nurung, 2003; Gerv?s, 2007; Greene et al, 2010).However,  these  disparate  research  traditionsconsider questions closer to the low-level tasks de-scribed in Section 1 than to the theoretical ques-tions  of  interpretation  ranking,  evaluation,  andcomputational modeling of meaningful human lan-3 We may be interested in user modeling of the author, versusmodeling our own interpretative techniques, versus perform-ing sentiment analysis on a particular community of languageuse, for example.guage use.
This is possibly because of the empiric-al methods which have become dominant in AI/CLin recent  history (Cohen,  1995).
A field whosemethods are tuned to empirical evaluation will nat-urally shy from an area with few clear empiricaltasks, whose humanities practitioners are likely toindulge  in  analyses  assuming  human  levels  ofknowledge and language-processing capabilities.Because of this we will turn instead for inspira-tion  from  the  digital  humanities (Schreibman,2004).
With  its  roots  in  humanities  computing(Hockey, 2004) which constituted the earliest useof computers in the humanities, digital humanitiestook shape with the advent of the Internet.
Digitalhumanities researchers currently apply computersto research questions such as authorship attribution(Jockers  and  Witten,  2010),  statistical  word-useanalysis (Burrows, 2004), and the development ofresources for classical lexicography (Bamman andCrane, 2009), often collaborating with statisticiansor computer scientists.Digital  humanities  has  always  had  detractorsamong  more  traditional  humanities  scholars,  butscholars sympathetic to the overall goals of digitalhumanities  have  also  critiqued some  of  its  prac-tices.
Consider the technological  constraints im-posed by projects in which texts are digitized, an-notated,  and  statistically  analyzed.
Those  con-straints make tacit assumptions about the objectiv-ity of knowledge and the transparency of its trans-mission (Drucker, 2009).
Those assumptions maybe contrary to a literary theorist's understanding ofhow literary text analysis actually works.For  example,  in  the  case  of  scholar/artist  Jo-hanna Drucker, knowledge is seen as partial, sub-jective,  and  situated.
Subjectivity  in  this  contexthas two components: a point of view inscribed inthe possible interpretations of a work, and "inflec-tion, the marked presence of affect and specificity,registered as the trace of difference, that inheres inmaterial expressions" (Drucker, 2009).
To Druck-er, subjectivity of knowledge is evident in the factthat  interpretation  occurs  in  modeling,  encoding,processing, and accessing knowledge.Drucker's focus is on humanities tools in digitalcontexts rather than digital tools in humanities con-texts.
We will proceed in a similar spirit, consider-ing the tasks and approaches of literary text analys-is as practiced by literary theorists and consideringwhat  kinds of  models  and approaches from con-temporary AI/CL research they might find useful,98rather than starting with the tasks and approachesthat AI/CL researchers are most familiar with andasking how they can be applied to literary text ana-lysis.As a specific goal to guide our thought, we willadopt a statement  from another scholar who em-phasizes the importance of keeping the humanitiescentral to computational text analysis.
In ReadingMachines:  Toward  an  Algorithmic  Criticism,Stephen Ramsay develops the notion of adaptingthe constraints imposed by computation to inten-tionally create "those heightened subjectivities ne-cessary for critical work" (Ramsay, 2011).
Whiledoing so, Ramsay states that from a humanist's per-spective:Tools that can adjudicate the hermeneutical para-meters of human reading experiences - tools thatcan tell you whether an interpretation is permiss-ible - stretch considerably beyond the most am-bitious fantasies of artificial intelligence.The rest of this paper will attempt to respond toRamsay's  claim  by  developing  such  ambitiousfantasies.
We will strive to consider literary textanalysis as it is understood by literary theorists ofrecent history, and we will describe how represent-ative processes from each of these theories couldbe modeled computationally using techniques fromthe AI/CL research communities.3 Literary Text Analysis3.1  Expressive RealismHuman judgments on the nature of literature andthe way literature is  best  read have changed fre-quently since classical times.
The last century inparticular has provided numerous, often contradict-ory,  notions  of  how  we  should  determine  themeaning of a story, leaving us with no consensus.Even within a school of thought there may be sig-nificant  differences  of  opinion,  and evaluation istypically no more empirical  than how persuasivethe interpretation of a given text may be.
Still, wemay  identify  certain  key  ideas  and  use  them toimagine ways they could involve computation.We may begin by considering  expressive real-ism,  an  approach  to  literary  theory  which  de-veloped in the late 19th and early 20th centuries,and is a combination of the classical Aristoteliannotions of art as mimesis (reproducing reality) andthe Romantic-era view of poetry as an outpouringof  strong  emotions  produced by an  artist  whosepercepts  and  affective  processing  are  unusuallywell-tuned4 (Belsey, 1980).
The task of the readerin this formulation is  to faithfully create in theirminds the realities being represented by the work,and to enrich themselves by following the thoughtsand feelings that the artist experienced.Computationally, we may frame this as a know-ledge engineering task: the writer is a subject mat-ter  expert  in  perceiving  the  world,  and  has  de-veloped knowledge about the world and innovativeways of emotionally relating to the world.
The lit-erary critic's task is to identify which writers haveproduced  knowledge  and  affective  relationshipsthat are most worth adopting.
The reader's task isto be guided by the critics to the best writers, andthen strive to adopt those writers' knowledge andaffective relations as their own.It may seem difficult to perform such a task witha text such as Finnegan's Wake, which is not easyto  translate  into  propositions.
But  consider  awriter's understanding of what happens when read-ing expressive realist fiction (Gardner, 1991):If  we  carefully  inspect  our  experience  as  weread, we discover that the importance of physicaldetail is that it creates for us a kind of dream, arich and vivid play in the mind.
We read a fewwords at the beginning of a book or the particu-lar story, and suddenly we find ourselves seeingnot  only  words  on  a  page  but  a  train  movingthrough Russia, an old Italian crying, or a farm-house battered by rain.Gardner  describes  fiction as  producing an im-mersive  experience  in  which  the  reader's  sensa-tions  are  empathically  aligned with  those  of  thewriter.
This alignment produces an understandingunlike that of propositional knowledge:[The writer] at the very least should be sure heunderstands the common objection summed upin the old saw "Show, don't tell."
The reason, ofcourse,  is  that  set  beside  the  complex  thoughtachieved  by  drama,  explanation  is  thin  gruel,4 Belsey, who is critical of this approach, quotes the poet Wil-liam Wordsworth's view of artists as  "possessed of more thanusual organic sensibility."
In fact, Wordsworth believed aPoet was "endowed with more lively sensibility; more enthusi-asm and tenderness, who has a greater knowledge of humannature, and a more comprehensive soul, than are supposed tobe common among mankind..." (Wordsworth, 1802.
)99hence boring.
... After our [reading] experience,which can be intense if the writer is a good one,we know why the character leaves when finallyshe walks out the door.
We know in a way al-most too subtle for words...The  subtletly  described  by  Gardner's  explainshow a text such as  Finnegan's Wake may be readwithout recourse to a detailed exegesis producingpropositional  content.
The reader  need only be-come suggestible to the text, and allow themselvesto experience the "complex thought" suggested bythe  writer.
Of  course,  this  "intense"  experiencemay  lead  one  to  a  further  study  of  the  writer'smind-set, which would then create an even fullerunderstanding of that writer's approach.Such a  description may seem like an unlikelycandidate  for  computational  modeling,  but  con-sider the neurolinguistic implications of models ofthe  mirror  neuron  system  (Rizzolatti  andCraighero, 2004): hypothetically, a reader's neuralstructure might  literally copy that  of  the writer's,provided the stimulus of the text.
In this way wemight  model  the  transmission  of  knowledge  "al-most too subtle for words.
"3.2  New CriticismLater literary theories found expressive realismproblematic  in  various  ways.
For  example,  theAnglo-American New Criticism defined the inten-tional fallacy, which states that "the design or in-tention of the author is neither available nor desir-able as a standard for judging the success of a workof  literary  art"  (Wimsatt  and  Beardsley,  1954)5.Wimsatt and Beardsley proposed to avoid "authorpsychology" by focusing on the  internal evidenceof the text, which they defined aspublic evidence which is discovered through thesemantics and syntax of a poem, through our ha-bitual knowledge of the language, through gram-mars, dictionaries, and all the literature which isthe source of dictionaries, in general through allthat makes a language and culture...The  language  knowledge  and  resources  wereused to identify the "technique of art".
New Critic5 Note that Wimsatt and Beardsley did not not deny the schol-arly value of "literary biography," and New Critic John CroweRansom stated "Without [historical studies] what could wemake of Chaucer, for instance?"
(Ransom, 1938)  New Criticsmerely believed that close readings of the text should takeprecedence during literary text analysis.John Crowe Ransom provided examples  of  whatdevices should  be  used  in  analyzing  poetry(Ransom, 1938):its metric; its inversions; solecisms, lapses fromthe  prose  norm  of  language,  and  from  closeprose logic; its tropes; its fictions, or inventions,by which  it  secures  'aesthetic  distance'  and  re-moves itself from history...However,  these  devices  were  not  studied  fortheir own sake.
Ransom continued: "the superiorcritic  is  not  content  with  the  compilation  of  theseparate devices; the suggest to him a much moregeneral  question."
The  question  in  this  case  is"what [the poem] is trying to represent" and why itdoes so using those particular devices.
This wasworth understanding because the New Critics be-lieved that "great works of literature are vessels inwhich humane values survive" (Selden and Wid-dowson, 1993) and which reinforce those values inthe diligent reader.Computationally, the list of language resourcesdescribed  by  Wimsatt  and  Beardsley  recalls  thecorpus- and knowledge-based resources promotedby textbook approaches to CL (Jurafsky and Mar-tin, 2000).
The low-level tasks in analyzing  Fin-negan's Wake described in Section 1 align with theNew  Critical  identification  of  literary  devices.Much of the CL/AI research described in Section 2is in this vein.However,  to  create  a  complete  computationalmodel of literary reading from this perspective wewould also need a model of the types of "humanevalues" that New Critics revered.
Unfortunately,the  New  Critics  themselves  did  not  explicitlyprovide such a model, as doing so was consideredirrelevant.
But we ourselves could adapt a compu-tational model of culture to develop a representa-tion  of  the  New  Critic's  cultural  values.
AI  re-searchers develop computational model of cultureby,  for  example,  implementing  Cultural  SchemaTheory and Appraisal Theory in cognitive architec-tures to describe how culture emerges from an in-dividual's cognitive processes (Taylor et al, 2007).There  is  room here  to  adapt  the  system of  per-ceived  affordances  (Gorniak  and  Roy,  2006)  inwhich language understanding is represented as theprocess  of  filtering  real-world  devices  in  a  wayanalogous  to  how the  New Critics  filter  literarydevices.1003.3  Russian FormalismThe New Criticism developed independently ofRussian  formalism,  which  similarly  focused  onthe text and the literary devices present, rather thanthe author's intentions or the context of the text'sproduction.
Because of this, most of the computa-tional  representations  used  in  discussion  of  theNew Critics could also be applied to the Russianformalists.However,  unlike the New Critics,  the  Russianformalists  believed   that  art  existed  to  create  asense of defamiliarization:art exists that one may recover the sensation oflife; it exists to make one feel things...
The tech-nique  of  art  is  to  make objects  'unfamiliar,'  tomake  forms  difficult,  to  increase  the  difficultyand length of perception because the process ofperception is an aesthetic end in itself and mustbe prolonged.
Art is a way of experiencing theartfulness of an object: the object is not import-ant.6The defamiliarizing force of literature is easy tosee  in  a  text  such  as  Finnegan's  Wake,  whosesecond sentence reads:Sir  Tristram,  violer  d'amores,  fr'over  the  shortsea, had passencore rearrived from North Armor-ica on this side the scraggy isthmus of EuropeMinor to wielderfight his penisolate war: nor hadtopsawyer's rocks by the stream Oconee exagger-ated  themselse  to  Laurens  County's  gorgioswhile  they  went  doublin  their  mumper  all  thetime:  nor  avoice  from  afire  bellowsed  mishemishe to tauftauf thuartpeatrick: not yet, thoughvenissoon after, had a kidscad buttended a blandold isaac:  not  yet,  though all's  fair  in  vanessy,were  sosie sesthers  wroth with twone nathand-joe.This is not a text that can easily be read rapidly.A more methodical reading is most obviously re-warded by the portmanteaux (which are created bycombining words in new ways) along with the oth-er literary devices.
Computationally, as before thiscan be seen as another set of devices to be auto-matically processed.
However it may be more pro-ductive to see this as an example of how writersstrive to invent new devices and combine devicesin new ways, which may be resistant to automated6 First published in 1917, this translation is from (Shlovsky,1988).
Emphasis from the original.analyses.
From this perspective, defamiliarizationhas its effect on the computational linguist who isdeveloping the algorithms.
The perception of theresearcher is thus shifted and prolonged, creatingin them a recovery of the sensation for language.3.4  Structuralism and Post-StructuralismLinguist  Roman  Jakobson  was  central  figure  inboth  Russian  formalism  and  structuralism,  twomutually influential schools of thought.
A key dif-ference between the two is their understanding ofthe  relation between aesthetic  products  and theircultural context.
To Russian formalists (as well asto  New  Critics),  literary  text  existed  apart  fromother  cultural  phenomena,  whereas  structuralismprovided a formal  framework which studied sys-tems of arbitrary signs which could be built at dif-ferent  levels,  (Schleifer,  1993)  so  that  literarystructures could be built with reference to culturalstructures.With roots in the semiotics of linguist Ferdinandde  Saussure  and  of  philosopher  Charles  SandersPeirce,  structuralism aimed  at  systematically  un-covering the way that meaning arises from systemsof signs forming linguistic elements such as sen-tences and paragraphs as well as higher levels ofnarrative discourse.Continued scholarship on structuralism exposeda  number  of difficulties.
Besides  its  lack of  in-terest  in  individual  cases  or  in  the  way systemschange over time, the arbitrary nature of structural-ist signs contradicted its aspirations to systematicrepresentation (Schleifer,  1993).
This was lever-aged by philosopher Jacques Derrida, who arguedthat one could not study structures from "outside,"in the way that an objective study requires.Derrida  was  a  post-structuralist,  who  usedstructuralism as a starting point but did not limitthemselves with structuralism's constraints.
Anoth-er  post-structuralist,  literary  theorist  RolandBarthes, used the phrase  death of the author in away reminiscent of the New Critics' intentional fal-lacy.
Barthes, however, used the the arbitrarinessof signs to go beyond the New Critics and rejectthe existence of any "ultimate meaning" of a text.Barthes  saw  the  source  of  understanding  as  thereader:[A]  text  consists  of  multiple  writings,  issuingfrom several cultures and entering into dialoguewith each  other,  into parody,  into contestation;101but there is one place where this multiplicity iscollected, united, and this place is not the author,as we have hitherto said it was, but the reader...(Barthes, 1967)To Barthes, readers are not important in terms oftheir  personal  history or  their  state  of  mind,  butrather that they are the one who "holds gatheredinto a single field all the paths of which the text isconstituted."
(Barthes, 1967)  In other words, thetext's  meaning  is  dependent  on  the  structures  ofsigns  in  which  the  reader  exists.
And  becausesigns  are  arbitrary,  the  reading produced by anyreader must likewise be arbitrary, at least in termsof any objective measure of quality.Another post-structuralist, psychologist JacquesLacan, maintained that humans entered systems ofsigns in which they found or were provided roles,such  as  child/parent  or  male/female  (Selden  andWiddowson, 1993).
This process is directed by theunconscious, and the only way it is able to take oncomprehensible meaning is in expression through asystem of language signs.These are but a few of the influential structural-ist and post-structuralist scholars, but they sufficeto consider applicable computational techniques.We  begin  by  considering  the  concept  of  lan-guage as a complex adaptive system (Beckner etal., 2009).
This provides a model that brings to-gether  language,  interpretation,  and  intelligentagents (Steels, 2007) in a way that allows experi-ments with both sets of software agents and lan-guage-using robots (Steels, 2006).
As in the struc-turalist view, meaningful language use is depend-ent on complex systems involving signification.But  this  complex  system  is  made  up  of  lan-guage-using agents, who must work together to de-termine norms as well as actually use language forreal-world tasks and abstract reasoning.
The mod-el must work not only at the system level, but alsoat the individual level.
CL/AI research in societalgrounding (DeVault et al, 2006), dialogue ground-ing (Traum, 1994), semantic alignment (Pickeringand  Garrod,  2004),  and  relational  agency (Bick-more and Picard, 2005) provide ways of represent-ing how populations of agents use language mean-ingfully,  and how pairs of  human-like intelligentagents  coordinate  language in  situated dialogues,while  developing social  relationships.
As in  theLacanian  subject,  these  agents  are  created  ortrained  in  terms  of  their  difference  or  similarityfrom the other agents, adopting and being definedby their roles in the structured societies of agents.When considering  Finnegan's Wake, an intelli-gent  agent  would  bring  with  it  an  algorithm foridentifying features in stories, as well as resourcessuch as language model data and its model of therole it fits in its social structures.
Reading the text,the agent identifies literary devices that it uses asaffordances to react with its emotions and its socialperceptions, as well as to weigh the semantics ofthe text.
When reading the text, the agent's inter-pretation of the story will be based on its genderedidentity and personal history.
In this way, the liter-ary analysis of the agent is highly dependent on itssense of identity, as well as the localized nature ofits language resources.4  ConclusionsWe began by describing some of the larger ques-tions that literary theorists have been working withfor over a century.
We described some ideas fromthe  digital  humanities,  including  an  expressedskepticism  in  artificial  intelligence's  ability  tomodel human-like readings of literary texts.
In re-sponse to that skepticism, we have described sever-al major approaches to literary text  analysis,  andfor each we have suggested ways in which state-of-the-art CL/AI techniques could be applied to mod-el or support their approach.Of course this is by no means an exhaustive sur-vey of either literary theoretical approaches or ap-plicable  CL/AI  techniques.
Rather,  we  are  sug-gesting that a great number of possibilities remainunexplored between the two.ReferencesDavid  Bamman  and  Gregory  Crane.
2009.
Computa-tional Linguistics and Classical Lexicography, Digit-al Humanities Quarterly, Volume 3 Number 1.Roland Barthes.
1967.
The Death of the Author.
As-pen.
No.
5-6.Clay Beckner, Nick C. Ellis, Richard Blythe, John Hol-land,  Joan  Bybee,  Jinyun  Ke,  Morten  H.  Christi-ansen,  Diane Larsen-Freeman,  William Croft,  TomSchoenemann.
2009.
Language Is a Complex Adapt-ive  System:  Position  Paper.
Language  Learning,59:Suppl 1, December 2009, pp 1-26.Catherine Belsey.
1980.
Critical Practice.
Routledge.London, UK.102Timothy Bickmore  and Rosalind Picard.
2005.
Estab-lishing and maintaining long-term human-computerrelationships.
ACM Transactions  on  Computer-Hu-man Interaction (ToCHI).John Burrows.
2004.
Textual Analysis.
In A Compan-ion  to  Digital  Humanities,  ed.
S.   Schreibman,  R.Siemens, and J. Unsworth, Oxford:  Blackwell  Pub-lishing.Charles B. Callaway and James C. Lester.
2002.
Nar-rative  Prose  Generation,  Artificial  Intelligence.Volume 139 Issue 2, Elsevier Science Publishers Ltd.Essex, UKPaul R. Cohen.
1995.
Empirical Methods for ArtificialIntelligence.
Bradford Books.
Cambridge, MA.David DeVault, Iris Oved, and Matthew Stone.
2006.Societal Grounding is Essential to Meaningful Lan-guage Use.
In  Proceedings of the Twenty-First Na-tional  Conference  on Artificial  Intelligence  (AAAI-06)Johanna  Drucker.
2009.
SpecLab:  Digital  Aestheticsand  Projects  in  Speculative  Computing.
UniversityOf Chicago Press.David  K.  Elson,  Nicholas  Dames,  Kathleen  R.  McK-eown.
2010.
Extracting Social Networks from Liter-ary Fiction.
In Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL 2010), Uppsala, SwedenDavid K. Elson and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2009.
Ex-tending and Evaluating a Platform for Story Under-standing.
Papers from the 2009 AAAI Spring Sym-posium: Intelligent Narrative Technologies II.
TheAAAI Press, Menlo Park, California.Mark A. Finlayson.
2011.
Corpus Annotation in Serviceof Intelligent Narrative Technologies, Proceedings ofthe 4th Workshop on Intelligent Narrative Technolo-gies, Stanford, CA.Virginia Francisco, Raquel Herv?s,  Federico Peinado,and Pablo Gerv?s.
2011.
EmoTales: creating a cor-pus of folk tales with emotional annotations.
Lan-guage Resources & Evaluation.John Gardner.
1991.
The Art of Fiction: Notes on Craftfor Young Writers.
Vintage, New York, NY.Pablo  Gerv?s.
2009.
Computational  Approaches  toStorytelling and Creativity.
AI Magazine, Fall, p 49-62.Pablo Gerv?s, Raquel Herv?s, Jason R Robinson.
2007.
"Difficulties  and  Challenges  in  Automatic  PoemGeneration: Five Years of Research at UCM".
in Pa-pers presented at e-poetry 2007, Universit?
Paris8.Peter Gorniak and Deb Roy.
2007.
Situated LanguageUnderstanding  as  Filtering  Perceived  Affordances.Cognitive Science, Volume 31, Issue 2, pages 197?231.Amit Goyal, Ellen Riloff, Hal Daum?, III.
2010.
Auto-matically producing plot unit representations for nar-rative text.
In  Proceedings of the 2010 Conferenceon  Empirical  Methods  in  Natural  Language  Pro-cessing.Erica  Greene,  Tugba  Bodrumlu,  and  Kevin  Knight.2010.
Automatic Analysis of Rhythmic Poetry withApplications to Generation and Translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2010 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 524?533.Susan Hockey.
2004.
The History of Humanities Com-puting.
In  A  Companion  to  Digital  Humanities.Blackwell, Oxford, UK.Matthew L.  Jockers  and Daniela M. Witten, 2010 "Acomparative study of machine learning methods forauthorship attribution", Literary and Linguistic Com-puting  25(2):215-223James  Joyce.
1939.
Finnegan's  Wake.
Faber  andFaber, London, UK.Daniel  Jurafsky and James  H.  Martin.
2000.
Speechand  Language  Processing.
Pearson  Prentice  Hall.Upper Saddle River, New Jersey.Anna Kazantseva and Stan Szpakowicz.
2010.
Summar-izing  Short  Stories.
In  Computational  Linguistics,36(1), pp.
71-109.Scott W. McQuiggan, Jennifer L. Robison, and JamesC.
Lester.
2010.
Affective  Transitions  in  Narrat-ive-Centered Learning Environments.
In Education-al Technology & Society.
13 (1): 40?53.Inderjeet Mani.
2005.
Narrative Summarization.
Journ-al Traitement automatique des langues (TAL): Spe-cial  issue  on Context:  Automatic Text  Summariza-tion.Inderjeet  Mani.
2010.
Predicting  Reader  Response  inNarrative.
In  Proceedings of the Intelligent Narrat-ive Technologies III Workshop.Hisar  Maruli  Manurung.
2003.
An  Evolutionary  Al-gorithm Approach to Poetry Generation.
PhD thesis,University of Edinburgh.
College of Science and En-gineering.
School of Informatics.Saif Mohammad.
2011.
From Once Upon a Time toHappily  Ever  After:  Tracking  Emotions  in  Novelsand  Fairy  Tales,  In  Proceedings  of  the  ACL 2011Workshop  on  Language  Technology  for  CulturalHeritage,  Social  Sciences,  and  Humanities  (LaT-eCH), June, Portland, OR.Federico  Peinado,  Virginia  Francisco,  Raquel  Herv?s,Pablo Gerv?s.
2010.
Assessing the Novelty of Com-puter-Generated Narratives Using Empirical Metrics.Minds & Machines, 20:565?588.Martin J. Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Towardsa  mechanistic  Psychology  of  dialogue.
Behavioraland Brain Sciences, 27:169-22.Livia Polanyi, Chris Culy, Martin van den Berg, GianLorenzo Thione, David Ahn, 2004.
Sentential Struc-ture and Discourse Parsing.
In ACL2004 - Workshopon Discourse Annotation.103Stephen Ramsay.
2011.
Reading machines: Towardsan  Algorithmic  Criticism.
University  of  IllinoisPress, Urbana, ILJohn Crowe Ransom.
1938.
Criticism, Inc.  Antholo-gized in  The Norton Anthology of  Theory  & Criti-cism.
2010.
WW Norton & Company, New York,NY.Giacomo  Rizzolatti  and  Laila  Craighero.
2004.
TheMirror Neuron System.
In  Annual Review of Neur-oscience.
27:169?92.Ronald Schleifer.
1993.
Structuralism.
in  The JohnsHopkins  Guide  to  Literary  Theory  and  Criticism.Michael  Groden  and  Martin  Kreiswirth,  eds.
TheJohns Hopkins University Press.
Baltimore, USA.Susan Schreibman, Ray Siemens, John Unsworth, eds.2004.
A Companion to Digital Humanities.
Black-well, Oxford, UK.Raman  Selden  and  Peter  Widdowson.
1993.
AReader's  Guide  to  Contemporary  Literary  Theory.University Press of Kentucky.
Lexington, KY.Luc Steels.
2006.
How to do experiments in artificiallanguage evolution and why.
Proceedings of the 6thInternational  Conference  on  the  Evolution  of  Lan-guage.
pp 323-332.Luc  Steels.
2007.
Language  Originated  in  SocialBrains.
Social Brain Matters: Stances of Neurobio-logy  of  Social  Cognition,  pages  223-242,  EditionsRodopi.
Amsterdam NL.Glenn  Taylor,  Michael  Quist,  Steve  Furtwangler,  andKeith  Knudsen.
2007.
Toward  a  Hybrid  CulturalCognitive Architecture.
CogSci Workshop on Cultureand Cognition.David  Traum.
1994.
A  Computational  Theory  ofGrounding  in  Natural  Language Conversation,  TR545 and Ph.D. Thesis, Computer Science Dept., U.Rochester, NY.Virginia Tufte.
2006.
Artful Sentences: Syntax as Style.Graphics Press, Chesire, CT.Akira Utsumi.
2004.
Stylistic and Contextual Effects inIrony Processing.
In Proceedings of the 26th AnnualMeeting of the Cognitive Science Society.W.K.
Wimsatt,  Jr.,  and Monroe  C.  Beardsley.
1954.The  Intentional  Fallacy.
From  The  Verbal  Icon:Studies in the Meaning of Poetry.
University of Ken-tucky Press, Lexington, KY.William Wordsworth.
1802.
Preface to Lyrical Ballads.Anthologized in The Norton Anthology of Theory &Criticism.
2010.
WW Norton  & Company,  NewYork, NY.104
