Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 10?17,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 12 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying Claimed Knowledge Updatesin Biomedical Research Articles?gnes S?ndor Anita de WaardXerox Research Centre Europe Elsevier Labs, USAAgnes.Sandor@xrce.xerox.com A.Dewaard@elsevier.comAbstractKey knowledge components of biologicalresearch papers are conveyed bystructurally and rhetorically salientsentences that summarize the main findingsof a particular experiment.
In this articlewe define such sentences as ClaimedKnowledge Updates (CKUs), and proposeusing them in text mining tasks.
Weprovide evidence that CKUs convey themost important new factual information,and thus demonstrate that rhetoricalsalience is a systematic discourse structureindicator in biology articles along withstructural salience.
We assume that CKUscan be detected automatically with state-of-the-art text analysis tools, and suggestsome applications for presenting CKUs inknowledge bases and scientific browsinginterfaces.1 IntroductionBiomedical research articles describe newlydiscovered biological findings, and in doing so,update the readers?
knowledge on a particulartopic.
These two functions of research articles ?describing reality and updating knowledge in afield ?
mobilize different forms of linguisticexpression: on the one hand, in order to describepieces of reality, the authors refer to biologicalobjects and relationships among them, and on theother hand, they shape the way in which newknowledge is inserted into existing accumulatedknowledge, through argumentation, discourse andrhetorical structure.
The designers of text miningsystems are increasingly aware of the importanceof integrating both aspects into annotationschemes, and thus models of argumentation,discourse and rhetorical structure are becomingintegrated with models of biological reality inmodern annotation systems, such as described inLiakata et al (2010), Nawaz et al (2010), Wilburet al (2006), S?ndor (2007), Teufel (1999) andCollier (2006).Models of biological knowledge are commonlymapped to well-defined linguistic elements likenamed entities (mostly noun phrases), relationshipsbetween the entities (mostly predicates), and theseare reliably detected with state-of-the-art text-mining tools (e.g., Nawaz et al 2010).
But thedetection of argumentation, discourse andrhetorical structures, and the association oflinguistic expressions with these elements, is farless straightforward.
The great number of proposedapproaches already makes it clear that it is difficultto provide easily applicable and generally acceptedannotation guidelines, which can easily beimplemented in a web-based environment.
Anideal discourse annotation system would bestraightforward to use, and it would not require anylearning ?
in the same way that using hyperlinks isa straightforward way to create references.
Such anannotation model should also provide a substantialimprovement to users who want to find relevantnew knowledge.Here, we propose a simple discourse annotationmodel to detect the main new knowledge claims inbiology research papers.
We also propose somesuggestions for the implementation of theautomatic detection of this model.2 Claimed Knowledge UpdatesBiomedical articles contain a great number ofbiological propositions, but not all of them areequally relevant: some are central claims, whileothers merely support the findings; some arefactual, while others are merely hypothesized.
Theauthors often summarize their main findings in the10title, section titles and caption titles.
In addition tothese  ?
structurally  defined  ?
summaries,     theauthors also formulate their main findings inrhetorically salient sentences.
This rhetoricalsalience is conveyed via metadiscourse, by whichthe authors explicitly attribute the findings tothemselves, and state that they are based on thecurrent empirical work, such as: ?Our resultsdemonstrate?, ?In the present study we identified?.We will call biological propositions summarized insuch structurally or rhetorically salient sentencesClaimed Knowledge Updates (CKU).We hypothesize that a listing of the CKUs in apaper constitutes new main knowledge provided inthat paper, and thus we propose that their detectionmay play an important role in text mining.We define CKUs as follows:1.
A CKU expresses a verbal or nominalproposition about biological entities.2.
A CKU is a new proposition.3.
The authors present the CKU as factual.4.
A CKU is derived from the experimental workdescribed in the article.5.
The ownership of the proposition is attributedto the author(s) of the article.6.
4) and 5) are either explicitly expressed or areimplicitly conveyed by a structural position astitle, section or caption title.As an example, Table 1 contains some CKUs froman article on Spinal Muscular Atrophy (Akten etal., 2011).
The metadiscourse indicating CKUs isgiven in bold.In studying this paper, we found a strikingregularity in the appearance of CKUs throughoutthe article: the Abstract, the Introduction, theResults and the Discussion sections are repeat thesame CKUs, as follows:?
in the Abstract they appear as a list of findings;?
in the Introduction, they are inserted within thecontext of previous knowledge;?
in the Results section, they are explainedwithin the context of the authors?
work, andthus provide empirical evidence;and finally,?
in the Discussion, they are presented in theperspective of the advances in the researchdomain.In other words, the four predefined structural unitsof research articles give an indicator of theunderlying CKU organization.
This regularityshows that rhetorical salience is systematicallyrelated to structural organization, and thus that theplacement of the CKUs in the text can be a markerfor discourse structure in biological researcharticles.3   Automatic detection of CKUsAccording   to our definition, a  CKU  is  a  factualproposition   referring    to   a   bio-event,   and   itsdiscourse   function  is    updating   knowledge:  itssource is the author of the current  article,   and   itsbasis  is  the  experimental findings of the    currentTable 1.
Sentences and CKUs from Akten et alSentence CKUHere we used massspectrometry toidentifyHuD as a novelneuronal SMN-interactingpartner.HuD is a neuronalSMN-interactingpartner.Our analysis of knownHuD-associated mRNAs inneurons identified cpg15mRNA as a highly abundantmRNA in HuDIPs comparedwith other known targets ofHuD, such as GAP43 andTau.cpg15 mRNA is ahighly abundantmRNA in HuDIPsOur finding that SMNprotein associates with HuDprotein and the HuD targetcpg15 mRNA in neurons ledus to ask whether SMNdeficiency affects theabundance or cellulardistribution of cpg15mRNA.SMN proteinassociates with HuDproteinSMN proteinassociates with cpg15mRNA11Title Abstract Introduction Results Figures Discussion CitationEventrepresentationInteractionof survivalof motorneuron(SMN) andHuDproteins[with mRNAcpg15rescues motorneuronaxonaldeficits]Here weused massspectrometrytoidentifyHuDas a novelneuronalSMN-interactingpartner.Here weidentifyHuDasa novelinteractingpartner ofSMN,Togetherwith our co-IP data,these resultsindicate thatSMNassociateswith HuD inmotorneuronsSMNinteractswith HuD.Our MS andco-IP datademonstrate a stronginteractionbetweenSMN andHuD inspinal motorneuronaxons.Furthermore,thesefindings areconsistentwith recentstudiesdemonstrating that theinteractionof HuD withthe spinalmuscularatrophy(SMA)protein SMN?Entity1:HuDEntity2:SMNRelation:InteractionLocation:MotorneuronsTable 2.
The same bio-event repeated in the different sections of the paper, a citation, and itsrepresentationarticle, and its basis is the experimental findings ofthe current article.
The discourse function isindicated either by the proposition?s structuralposition within the article or by metadiscourse.We suggest detecting CKUs in three steps,combining state-of-the art document processingtools:1. identifying structural discourse markers;2. identifying rhetorical discourse markers,3.
extracting factual bio-events.Structural indicators, i.e.
the title, section titlesor figure captions, are detected through markup ina straightforward way, if the article is encoded in astructured document format (e.g., XML).
If this isnot the case, a special conversion tool should beapplied, as described in e.g.
D?jean and Meunier(2007) to convert unstructured documents tostructured documents.Metadiscourse indicators, which convey boththat the source of the new knowledge is attributedto the author(s) and that it is factual, such as ?herewe demonstrate?, ?our results identify?, etc.
couldbe detected by local pattern-matching rules in themajority of cases, since the authors often usehighly recurring forms to express them.
However,in some cases the expressions are somewhat morecomplex, and thus do not match local patterns.
Inorder to ensure better performance, which isimportant due to the relevance and relatively smallnumber of the claims to detect, we could apply theconcept-matching methodology as described inS?ndor (2007), which takes syntactic dependenciesinto account.
This methodology consists ofidentifying specific kinds of metadiscourse as therealizations of patterns of concepts, which arepresent as semantic features in syntacticallyconnected words and expressions.To detect CKUs, we assume that these areindicated minimally by two co-occurring concepts:a first concept, which we call DEICTIC, and whichconveys reference to the current work (here, we,our, these), and a second concept, which is asubclass of what we call MENTAL_OPERATION(identify, demonstrate, find, etc.).
This specificsubclass is a list of verbs and their nominalizationsthat belong to the category of ?certainty verbs?
inThomas and Hawes (1994).
This minimal patterndetects expressions like ?we identify?
or ?ourfinding?.
In expressions like ?these resultsindicate?
or ?our data demonstrate?, the DEICTICconcept is linked to the certainty verb in an indirectway, since it is the modifier of the subject of thecertainty verb.This subject refers to the ?base?
factor of thebio-event (i.e.
the indication comes from ?results?,and the demonstration from ?data?, see De Waardand Pander Maat (2009)), and thus it is also part ofthe metadiscourse.
Its relevant semantic feature iscalled SCOPE in the concept-matching systems.
In12summary, CKU-specific metadiscourse is coveredby the pattern DEICTIC + SCOPE +MENTAL_OPERATION, where the ?+?
signindicates a syntactic relationship.Consider the three sentences containing CKUsin Table 1.
The metadiscourse is in bold:(1) Here we used mass spectrometry to identifyHuD as a novel neuronal SMN-interactingpartner.
(2) Our analysis of known HuD-associatedmRNAs in neurons identified cpg15 mRNA asa highly abundant mRNA in HuDIPscompared with other known targets of HuD,such as GAP43 and Tau.
(3) Together with our co-IP data, these resultsindicate that SMN associates with HuDinmotor neurons, and that these two proteinscolocalize in granules within motor neuronaxons.While (3) follows a straightforward local pattern,in sentences (1) and (2) the relationship between?we?
and ?identify?
and ?our analysis?
and?identify?
needs deep syntactic analysis.
Thisanalysis is carried out by the Xerox IncrementalParser (XIP) (A?t et al 2000), on top of which wehave implemented concept-matching rules fordetecting metadiscourse indicating CKUs.We developed a simple concept-matchinggrammar based on the rules described above, andassessed the results of the automatic detection ofthe rhetorical indicators of CKUs in two papers.With respect to our manual annotation of CKUsthe coverage is 81% and 80% and the precision is62% and 51% respectively.Once the metadiscourse is detected, anothermodule should be applied for detecting bio-events,i.e.
factual propositions that involve biologicalentities.
This step can be executed by a state-of-the-art biological parser that detects factual bio-events, like the one by Nawaz et al (2010).Subsequent integration of factual bio-eventextraction should improve the precision, becausethe metadiscourse by itself does not guarantee thefactuality of the bio-events, as in the followingsentence:(4) Our findings provide further support for thehypothesis that SMN can associate withmultiple RBPs to regulate axonal mRNAlevels in neurons, and that the different SMN?RBP complexes may be defined by theirmRNA contents.4   Validation: are CKUs indeed the mainclaims?To test whether CKUs represent indeed the mainclaims of biology papers we carried out thefollowing checks:1.
First, we asked a domain specialist both tovalidate the CKUs as main claims, and selectthem in two of full-text papers.2.
Second, we analyzed how a source paper iscited in other papers, and investigated whetherthe descriptions given in the referring textscorrespond to the CKUs in the cited papers.We discuss these forms of validation in turn.4.1   Validation by domain specialistsWe carried out the validation in two steps.
In thefirst step we manually highlighted the CKUs intwo papers according to the definition given insection 2, above, and asked a biologist to select thesentences that were relevant claims of the article.In this step all the CKUs have been validated.
Thisindicates that if biologists are provided with a listof CKUs annotated by non-specialists based ondiscourse indicators, they do get access to relevantclaims of the articles.In the second step we asked the biologist tohighlight the sentences that conform to the 6 pointsof our definition of CKUs.
In the first article sheselected 26 sentences, out of which only 12sentences were conform to the definition of CKUs.The article contains 4 further CKUs, which thebiologist did not select.
Out of the 14 sentencesthat were highlighted by the biologist and that didnot satisfy the definition of CKUs, 5 do not satisfyone important criterion of CKUs, that of factuality.The remaining 9 sentences were factual, but didnot explicitly attribute the proposition to theauthors of the article, i.e.
did not containmetadiscourse that characterizes CKUs.
In thesecond article the biologist selected 48 sentences,out of which 24 were indeed CKUs, and there is nomore CKU is the article.
Similarly to the firstarticle, 3 out of the remaining sentences were notfactual and 21 did not contain metadiscourse.This experiment leads us to three interestingobservations:1.
A list of CKUs is meaningful for the biologist,however, CKUs do not provide an exhaustiveand well-definable list of main claims.132.
The definition of the CKUs is difficult to applyfor a biologist who is not trained in rhetoricalanalysis.3.
The notion of a ?main claim?
is notstraightforward to define formally.4.2   Citing sentences collectionWork on citation-based summarization (e.g.Kaplan et al, 2009, Jbara and Radev, 2011, Nakovet al, 2004) focuses on creating ?a summation ofmultiple scholars?
viewpoints [?]
using its set ofcitation sentences?.
If we accept the premise of thiswork, which is that a collection of citationsentences offer a good overview of the citedpapers, then CKUs should be well-represented inthe collection of cited sentences.
As a secondcheck, we identified a collection of 20 citations ofa full-text paper (Voorhoeve et al, 2006) andcompared the citing sentences to the CKUsdetected in this paper.
We found that in all casesthe citing sentences could be linked back to theCKUs (and indeed offer a good summary of thecited paper).5   Discussion5.1   Related workDe Waard and Pander Maat (2012) propose amodel for epistemic classification of bio-eventsthat consists of three parts: epistemic value (fromfactual through various degrees of certainty untillack of knowledge); base (grounding for theknowledge: reasoning, data or unidentified); source(author, named external source, implicit,attribution to the author, nameless external source,no source of knowledge).
Each bio-event ischaracterized by a combination of the three factors.CKUs represent a special case in this system: theirepistemic value is factual, their base is data derivedfrom the work described in the article, and theirsource is the author.
Whereas De Waard andPander Maat do not differentiate among thevarious combinations of the factors, we propose tohandle this unique combination on its own right,since it fulfills a special discourse function in thearticle, which facilitates access to the main claims.Each of the three factors that characterize CKUsis taken into account in various text-miningsystems, however, to our knowledge, no othersystem defines a discourse function in terms ofthese three factors.
Nawaz et al (2010) detectfactual bio-events, but they do not detectauthorship and base.
The same holds for theannotation guidelines developed by and Wilbur etal.
(2006).
Teufel (2000) considers authorship butdoes not consider factuality and base.
Blake (2010)differentiates among several kinds of base andconsiders only factual bio-events, but does notconsider authorship.Jaime-Sis?
(2011) makes the same observationas we do: the authors summarize and repeat themain findings in every section of the articles.
Sheattributes this phenomenon to the authors?adaptation to electronic publishing, where there isthe possibility to navigate in the text.
Repetitionfacilitates this navigation.
Based on interviewswith researchers and the analysis of 20 biologyarticles, she concludes that summarizing sentencesthat repeat the main findings in each section ofbiology articles are crucial both in writing andreading practices:  ?Aware of the scientists?reading practices, both editors and writerscontribute to ensure that, whatever section of thetext is scanned, and regardless of the reasons ofapproaching the article, the reader obtains the mostnewsworthy information, as if each of the sectionscould stand alone.?
(p. 87) ?Noteworthyinformation?
is mostly expressed by CKUs,although Jaime-Sis?
does not provide a rhetoricallybased definition of summarizing sentences.5.2   Proposed applicationsWe argue that the detection of Claimed KnowledgeUpdates constitutes a relevant goal for text-mining.CKUs are systematically signaled either by theirposition within the paper or by specific rhetoricaldiscourse markers.
This demonstrates that theyconstitute a systematic discourse organizing factorof articles.
Moreover, CKUs can be detected byintegrating state-of-the-art tools.The detection of new factual knowledge couldbe useful in several tasks, such as summarization,information extraction, updating ontologies andknowledge bases, etc.In particular, we wish to propose two use cases:first, the identification of CKUs could improve theoutput of automated knowledge bases that rely ontext mining.
Several text mining systems aim toprovide multi-dimensional characterizations of bio-events, both academic systems such as14MEDIE1and iHoP2, and commercial systems suchas Ariadne3and BEL4.
In none of these systems,however, are the various bio-events detecteddifferentiated according to their role in updatingknowledge.
Showing only the CKUs, and not allthe claims, would greatly enhance the efficiencyand use of these automated knowledge bases.
Forexample, the output of the query ?LATS2?
as asubject in MEDIE returned the followingsentences:1.
LATS2 is a member of the LATS tumorsuppressor family.2.
The differences in the expression levels of theLATS2, S100A2 and hTERT genes in differenttypes of NSCLC are significant.3.
LATS2 is a new member of the LATS tumoursuppressor family.4.
Among the growing list of putative Mdm2-regulated proteins are several proteins playinga key role in the control of cell proliferationsuch as pRb, E2F1/DP1, Numb, Smads, Lats2or IGF-1R.5.
In addition, modulation of novel target genessuch as LATS2 and GREB1 were identified tobe mediated by Nrf2.6.
Here, we show that LATS proteins(mammalian orthologs of Warts) interactdirectly with YAP in mammalian cells and thatectopic expression of LATS1, but not LATS2,effectively suppresses the YAP phenotypes7.
The tumor suppressor genes NEO1 andLATS2, and the estrogen receptor gene ESR1,all have binding sites for p53 and hsa-mir-372/373.It is clear - even without studying the textualcontext - that not all of these sentences refer to anew finding pertaining to LATS2, which is whatthe user would like to see, and what a CKU parserwould provide.A second possible application of CKU detectioncould be the presentation of CKUs as metadata inbiomedical publications, to aid the navigationwithin and among collections of biology articles.This is illustrated in a mock-up (Figure), whichextends the PNAS publication scheme with anadditional column presenting CKUs.
The column1http://www.nactem.ac.uk/medie/2http://www.ihop-net.org/UniPub/iHOP/3http://www.ariadnegenomics.com/4 http://www.openbel.orgin the middle is a part of the standard PNASlayout, and it points to the past, i.e.
to existingarticles that the current article draws on.
But thethird new column on the right extracts CKUs putforward in the current article.
According to wherethe CKUs are, the readers can learn what type ofarguments they could find to support them in thetext to the left: in the introduction - backgroundknowledge; in the results - experiments; in thediscussion - various other links and implications;in the Figures - the illustration of the experiments.To support both of these applications, CKUscould be marked up by the authors of the articleduring authoring or submission, making use oftools that identify CKUs.
The systematicannotation of CKUs by the authors could providethem with a structural template against which theycould check the article?s coherence, and act in arole similar to a Structured Digital Abstract,proposed by Gerstein et al (2007), as a ?computer-readable summary of pertinent facts?.
These CKUscould then be added directly to a bio-eventrepresentation framework, where biologicalentities, interaction types, locations, etc.
arestructurally marked for easy informationextraction.
In this way, the user can easily track thegrounding of a specific bio-event in past work,present experiments and future possibilities?
andeventually, do better science.15Figure Mockup of presenting CKUs in publicationsAcknowledgementsWe are indebted and deeply grateful to Prof.Maryanne Martone from the University of SanDiego for her generous help in annotating theCKUs in our texts, and to our anonymousreviewers for helping us improve this paper.ReferencesSalah A?t-Mokhtar, Jean-Pierre Chanod, and ClaudeRoux.
2002.
Robustness beyond shallowness:incremental dependency parsing.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 8(2/3):121-144.Amjad Abu-Jbara and Dragomir Radev.
2011.
CoherentCitation-Based Summarization of Scientific Papers.Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pages500?509, Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011Akten, Bikem, Min JeongKye, Le T. Hao, Mary H.Wertz, Sasha Singh, DuyuNie, Jia Huang, Tanuja T.Merianda, Jeffery L. Twiss, Christine E. Beattie,Judith A. J. Steen, and Mustafa Sahin.
2011.Interaction of survival of motor neuron (SMN) andHuD proteins with mRNA cpg15 rescues motorneuron axonal deficits, ProcNatlAcadSci U S A.2011 Jun 21;108(25):10337-42.Catherine Blake.
2010.
Beyond genes, proteins, andabstracts: Identifying scientific claims from full-textbiomedical articles.
Journal of BiomedicalInformatics archive Volume 43 Issue 2, April, 2010Pablo Ciccarese, Elizabeth Wu, June Kinoshita, GwenWong, Marco Ocana, Alan Ruttenberg, and TimClark.
2008.
The SWAN Biomedical DiscourseOntology.J Biomed Inform.
2008 Oct;41(5):739-51.Epub 2008 May 4.. PMID: 18583197Herv?Dejean and Jean-Luc Meunier.
2007.
LogicalDocument conversion: combining functional andformal knowledge.
Symposium on DocumentEngineering, Winnipeg, Canada, August 28-31,2007.Mark Gerstein, Michael Seringhausand and StanleyField.
2007.
Structured digital abstract makes textmining easy, Nature 447, 142 (10 May 2007) |doi:10.1038/447142aMercedes Jaime-Sis?.
2011.
Summarizing Findings: AnAll-Pervasive Move In Open Access BiomedicalResearch Articles Involves Rephrasing Strategies.
InResearching Specialized Languages.Studies inCorpus Linguistics 47.Edited by Bhatia, Vijay,S?nchez Hern?ndez, Purificaci?n and P?rez-Paredes,Pascual.Published by John Benjamins.
Pp.
71-88.Amjadabu Jbara and Dragomir R. Radev.
2011.Coherent citation-based summarization of scientific16papers.
In Proceedings of ACL 2011, Portland,Oregon, 2011.Dain Kaplan, Ryu Iida and Takenobu Tokunaga.
2009.Automatic Extraction of Citation Contexts forResearch Paper Summarization: A Coreference-chainbased Approach, Proceedings of the 2009 Workshopon Text and Citation Analysis for Scholarly DigitalLibraries, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 88?95, Suntec,Singapore, 7 August 2009.Maria Liakata, Simone Teufel, Advaith Siddharthan andColin Batchelor.
2010.
Corpora for conceptualisationand zoning of scientific papersProceedings of theSeventh conference on International LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC?10), Malta.Yoko Mizuta, Anna Korhonen, Tony Mullen, and NigelCollier.
2006.
Zone analysis in biology articles as abasis for information extraction.International Journalof Medical Informatics.
75(6): 468-487.Preslav I. Nakov, Ariel S. Schwartz, A., and MartiHearst.
2004.
Citances: Citation Sentences forSemantic Analysis of Bioscience Text, in theSIGIR'04 Workshop on Search and Discovery inBioinformatics.Raheel Nawaz, Paul Thompson, John McNaught,Sophia Ananiadou.
2010.
Meta-KnowledgeAnnotation of Bio-Events.
Proceedings of theSeventh International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2010).Cameron Neylon.
2012.
Network Enabled Research:Maximise scale and connectivity, minimise friction,Blog post, February 2012,http://cameronneylon.net/blog/network-enabled-research/?gnes S?ndor.
2007.
Modeling metadiscourseconveying the author's rhetorical strategy inbiomedical research abstracts.
Revue Fran?aise deLinguistique Appliqu?e 200(2):97--109.Simone Teufel.
1999.
Argumentative Zoning:Information Extraction from ScientificText.
PhDThesis.Simone Teufel and Marc Moens.
2000.
What's yoursand what's mine: Determining intellectual attributionin scientific text.
Proceedings of the 2000 JointSIGDAT conference on Empirical methods in naturallanguage processing and very large corpora.Sarah Thomas and Thomas P. Hawes.
1994.
ReportingVerbs in Medical Journal Articles.
English forSpecific Purposes, v13 n2 p129-48 1994.P.
Mathijs Voorhoeve, Carlos le Sage, et.
Al.
2006.
Agenetic screen implicates miRNA-372 and miRNA-373 as oncogenes in testicular germ cell tumors.
Cell.2006 Mar 24;124(6):1169-81.Anita de Waard, Simon Buckingham Shum, AnnamariaCarusi, Jack Park, Mathias Samwald, and ?gnesS?ndor.
2009.
Hypotheses, evidence andrelationships: The HypER approach for representingscientific knowledge claims.
In: Proceedings 8thInternational Semantic Web Conference, Workshopon Semantic Web Applications in ScientificDiscourse.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science,Springer Verlag: Berlin, 26 Oct 2009, WashingtonDC.Anita de Waard and Henk Pander Maat 2009.Categorizing Epistemic Segment Types in BiologyResearch Articles.
Workshop on Linguistic andPsycholinguistic Approaches to Text Structuring(LPTS 2009), September 21-23 2009Anita de Waard,.
and Pander Maat., H.P.M., 2012.Workshop on Detecting Structure in ScientificDiscourse, ACL 2012, Jeju Island, Korea (thisworkshop).W.
John Wilbur, Andrey Rzhetsky and Hagit Shatkay.2006.
New directions in biomedical text annotation:definitions, guidelines and corpus construction, BMCBioinformatics, vol.
7, no.
(356)17
