Proceedings of the 6th EACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 94?100,Avignon, France, 24 April 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsEnabling the Discovery of Digital Cultural Heritage Objects throughWikipediaMark M HallPaul D CloughInformation SchoolSheffield UniversitySheffield, UKm.mhall@shef.ac.ukp.d.clough@shef.ac.ukOier Lopez de Lacalle1,21IKERBASQUEBasque Foundation for ScienceBilbao, Spain2School of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh, UKoier.lopezdelacalle@gmail.esAitor SoroaEneko AgirreIXA NLP GroupUniversity of the Basque CountryDonostia, Spaina.soroa@ehu.ese.agirre@ehu.esAbstractOver the past years large digital culturalheritage collections have become increas-ingly available.
While these provide ad-equate search functionality for the expertuser, this may not offer the best support fornon-expert or novice users.
In this paperwe propose a novel mechanism for intro-ducing new users to the items in a collectionby allowing them to browse Wikipedia arti-cles, which are augmented with items fromthe cultural heritage collection.
Using Eu-ropeana as a case-study we demonstrate theeffectiveness of our approach for encourag-ing users to spend longer exploring itemsin Europeana compared with the existingsearch provision.1 IntroductionLarge amounts of digital cultural heritage (CH)information have become available over the pastyears, especially with the rise of large-scale ag-gregators such as Europeana1, the European ag-gregator for museums, archives, libraries, and gal-leries.
These large collections present two chal-lenges to the new user.
The first is discoveringthe collection in the first place.
The second isthen discovering what items are present in thecollection.
In current systems support for itemdiscovery is mainly through the standard searchparadigm (Sutcliffe and Ennis, 1998), which iswell suited for CH professionals who are highlyfamiliar with the collections, subject areas, andhave specific search goals.
However, for newusers who do not have a good understanding ofwhat is in the collections, what search keywords1http://www.europeana.euto use, and have vague search goals, this methodof access is unsatisfactory as this quote from(Borgman, 2009) exemplifies:?So what use are the digital libraries, ifall they do is put digitally unusable in-formation on the web?
?Alternative item discovery methodolo-gies are required to introduce new users todigital CH collections (Geser, 2004; Steem-son, 2004).
Exploratory search models(Marchionini, 2006; Pirolli, 2009) that en-able switching between collection overviews(Hornb[Pleaseinsertintopreamble]k and Hertzum,2011) and detailed exploration within thecollection are frequently suggested as moreappropriate.We propose a novel mechanism that enablesusers to discover an unknown, aggregated collec-tion by browsing a second, known collection.
Ourmethod lets the user browse through Wikipediaand automatically augments the page(s) the useris viewing with items drawn from the CH collec-tion, in our case Europeana.
The items are chosento match the page?s content and enable the user toacquire an overview of what information is avail-able for a given topic.
The goal is to introducenew users to the digital collection, so that they canthen successfully use the existing search systems.2 BackgroundControlled vocabularies are often seen as apromising discovery methodology (Baca, 2003).However, in the case of aggregated collectionssuch as Europeana, items from different providersare frequently aligned to different vocabularies,requiring an integration of the two vocabularies in94order to present a unified structure.
(Isaac et al,2007) describe the use of automated methods foraligning vocabularies, however this is not alwayssuccessfully possible.
A proposed alternative isto synthesise a new vocabulary to cover all aggre-gated data, however (Chaudhry and Jiun, 2005)highlight the complexities involved in then link-ing the individual items to the new vocabulary.To overcome this automatic clustering and vi-sualisations based directly on the meta-data havebeen proposed, such as 2d semantic maps (An-drews et al, 2001), automatically generated treestructures (Chen et al, 2002), multi-dimensionalscaling (Fortuna et al, 2005; Newton et al, 2009),self-organising maps (Lin, 1992), and dynamictaxonomies (Papadakos et al, 2009).
Howevernone of these have achieved sufficient success tofind widespread use as exploration interfaces.Faceted search systems (van Ossenbruggen etal., 2007; Schmitz and Black, 2008) have arisenas a flexible alternative for surfacing what meta-data is available in a collection.
Unlike the meth-ods listed above, faceted search does not requirecomplex pre-processing and the values to displayfor a facet can be calculated on the fly.
However,aggregated collections frequently have large num-bers of potential facets and values for these facets,making it hard to surface a sufficiently large frac-tion to support resource discovery.Time-lines such as those proposed by (Luo etal., 2012) do not suffer from these issues, but areonly of limited value if the user?s interest cannotbe focused through time.
A user interested in ex-amples of pottery across the ages or restricted toa certain geographic area is not supported by atime-line-based interface.The alternative we propose is to use a secondcollection that the user is familiar with and thatacts as a proxy to the unfamiliar collection.
(Villaet al, 2010) describe a similar approach whereFlickr is used as the proxy collection, enablingusers to search an image collection that has notextual meta-data.In our proposed approach items from the unfa-miliar collection are surfaced via their thumbnailimages and similar approaches for automaticallyretrieving images for text have been tried by (Zhuet al, 2007; Borman et al, 2005).
(Zhu et al,2007) report success rates that approach the qual-ity of manually selected images, however theirapproach requires complex pre-processing, whichFigure 1: Architectural structure of the Wikiana sys-temthe dynamic nature of discovery prohibits.Wikipedia was chosen as the discovery inter-face as it is known to have good content cover-age and frequently appears at the top of searchresults (Schweitzer, 2008) for many topics, itsuse has been studied (Lim, 2009; Lucassen andSchraagen, 2010), and it is frequently used asan information source for knowledge modelling(Suchanek et al, 2008; Milne and Witten, 2008),information extraction (Weld et al, 2009; Ni etal., 2009), and similarity calculation (Gabrilovichand Markovitch, 2007).3 Discovering Europeana throughWikipediaAs stated above our method lets users browseWikipedia and at the same time exposes them toitems taken from Europeana, enabling them todiscover items that exist in Europeana.The Wikipedia article is augmented with Euro-peana items at two levels.
The article as a wholeis augmented with up to 20 items that in a pre-processing step have been linked to the article andat the same time each paragraph in the article isaugmented with one item relating to that para-graph.Our system (Wikiana, figure 1) sits betweenthe user and the data-providers (Wikipedia, Eu-ropeana, and the pre-computed article augmenta-tion links).
When the user requests an article fromWikiana, the system fetches the matching articlefrom Wikipedia and in a first step strips every-thing except the article?s main content.
It thenqueries the augmentation database for Europeanaitems that have been linked to the article and se-lects the top 20 items from the results, as detailedbelow.
It then processes each paragraph and uses95Figure 2: Screenshot of the augmented article?Mediterranean Sea?
with the pre-processed article-level augmentation at the top and the first two para-graphs augmented with items as returned by the Euro-peana API.keywords drawn from the paragraphs (details be-low) to query Europeana?s OpenSearch API foritems.
A random item is selected from the result-set and a link to its thumbnail image inserted intothe paragraph.
The augmented article is then sentto the user?s browser, which in turn requests thethumbnail images from Europeana?s servers (fig.2).The system makes heavy use of caching tospeed up the process and also to reduce theamount of load on the backend systems.3.1 Article augmentationTo create the article-level augmentations we firstcreate a Wikipedia ?dictionary?, which mapsstrings to Wikipedia articles.
The mapping is cre-ated by extracting all anchor texts from the inter-article hyperlinks2 and mapping these to the ar-ticles they link to.
For instance, the string ?ro-man coin?
is used as an anchor in a link to theWikipedia article Roman currency3.
Wherethe same string points to multiple articles we se-lect the most frequent article as the target.
In thecase of ties an article is selected arbitrarily.In a second step, we scan the subset of Eu-ropeana selected for a European project, whichcomprises SCRAN and Culture Grid collectionsfor English.
The items in this sub-set are thenlinked to Wikipedia articles.
The sub-set of Euro-2We used the 2008 Wikipedia dump to construct the dic-tionary.3http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_currency<record><dc:identifier>http://www.kirkleesimage...</dc:identifier><dc:title>Roman Coins found in 1820..., Lindley</dc:title><dc:source>Kirklees Image Archive OAI Feed</dc:source><dc:language>EN-GB</dc:language><dc:subject>Kirklees</dc:subject><dc:type>Image</dc:type></record>Figure 3: Example of an ESE record, some fields havebeen omitted for clarity.peana that was processed followed the EuropeanaSemantic Elements (ESE) specifications4.
Figure3 shows an example of an ESE record describ-ing a photograph of a Roman coin belonging tothe Kirklees Image Archive.
We scan each ESErecord and try to match the ?dc:title?
field withthe dictionary entries.
In the example in figure3, the item will be mapped to the Wikipedia ar-ticle Roman currency because the string ?ro-man coins?
appears in the title.As a result, we create a many-to-many mappingbetween Wikipedia articles and Europeana items.The Wikiana application displays at most 20 im-ages per article, thus the Europeana items need tobe ranked.
The goal is to rank interesting itemshigher, with ?interestingness?
defined as how un-usual the items are in the collection.
This metricis an adaption of the standard inverse-document-frequency formula used widely in InformationRetrieval and is adapted to identify items that havemeta-data field-values that are infrequent in thecollection.
As in original IDF we diminish theweight of values that occur very frequently inthe collection, the non-interesting items, and in-creases the weight of values that occur rarely, theinteresting items.
More formally the interesting-ness ?i of an item i is calculated as follows:?i =#{titlei}?titlelogNtitlec(titlei) + 1+#{desci}?desclogNdescc(desci) + 1+#{subji}?subjlogNsubjc(subji) + 1where #{fieldi} is the length in words of thefield of the given item i, ?field is the average lengthin words of the field in the collection, Nfield is thetotal number of items containing that field in the4http://version1.europeana.eu/web/guest/technical-requirements96The Roman Empire (Latin: Imperium Romanum) wasthe post-Republican period of the ancient Roman civ-ilization, characterised by an autocratic form of gov-ernment and large territorial holdings in Europe andaround the Mediterranean.
?Latin language?
OR ?Ro-man Republic?
OR ?An-cient Rome?
or ?Autoc-racy?Figure 4: Example paragraph with the Wikipedia hy-perlinks in bold.
Below the search keywords extractedfrom the hyperlinks and the resulting thumbnail image.entire collection, and c(fieldi) is the frequency ofthe value in that field.Items are ranked by descending ?i and the forthe top 20 items, the thumbnails for the items areadded to the top of the augmented page.3.2 Paragraph augmentationThe items found in the article augmentation tendto be very focused on the article itself, thus to pro-vide the user with a wider overview of availableitems, each paragraph is also augmented.
Thisaugmentation is done dynamically when an arti-cle is requested.
As stated above the augmen-tation iterates over all paragraphs in the articleand for each article determines its core keywords.As in the article augmentation the Wikipedia hy-perlinks are used to define the core keywords, asthe inclusion of the link in the paragraph indi-cates that this is a concept that the author felt wasrelevant enough to link to.
For each paragraphthe Wikipedia hyperlinks are extracted, the under-scores replaced by spaces and these are then usedas the query keywords.
The keywords are com-bined using ?OR?
and enclosed in speech-marksto ensure only exact phrase matches are returnedand then submitted to Europeana?s OpenSearchAPI (fig.
4).
From the result set an item is ran-domly selected and the paragraph is augmentedwith the link to the item, the item?s thumbnail im-age and its title.
If there are no hyperlinks in aparagraph or the search returns no results, then noaugmentation is performed for that paragraph.4 EvaluationThe initial evaluation focuses on the paragraphaugmentation, as the quality of that heavily de-pends on the results provided by Europeana?s APIand on a log-analysis looking at how users com-Question Yes NoFamiliar 18 18Appropriate 9 27Supports 4 32Visually interesting 13 23Find out more 3 33Table 1: Evaluation experiment results reduced fromthe 5-point Likert-like scale to a yes/no level.ing to Europeana from Wikiana behave.4.1 Paragraph augmentation evaluationFor the paragraph augmentation evaluation 18wikipedia articles were selected from six topics(Place, Person, Event, Time period, Concept, andWork of Art).
From each article the first para-graph and a random paragraph were selected foraugmentation, resulting in a total set of 36 aug-mented paragraphs.
In the experiment interfacethe participants were shown the text paragraph,the augmented thumbnail image, and five ques-tions (?How familiar are you with the topic?
?,?How appropriate is the image?
?, ?How well doesthe image support the core ideas of the para-graph?
?, ?How visually interesting is the image?
?,and ?How likely are you to click on the imageto find out more??).
Each question used a five-point Likert-like scale for the answers, with 1 asthe lowest score and 5 the highest.
Neither thetopic nor the paragraph selection have a statisti-cally significant influence on the results.
To sim-plify the analysis the results have been reducedto a yes/no level, where an image is classified as?yes?
for that question if more than half the partic-ipants rated the image 3 or higher on that question(table 1).Considering the simplicity of the augmentationapproach and the fact that the search API is notunder our control, the results are promising.
9out of 36 (25%) of the items were classified asappropriate.
The non-appropriate images are cur-rently being analysed to determine whether thereare shared characteristics in the query structure oritem meta-data that could be used to improve thequery or filter out non-appropriate result items.The difficulty with automatically adding itemstaken from Europeana is also highlighted by thefact that only 13 of the 36 (36%) items were clas-sified as interesting.
While no correlation couldbe found between the two interest and appro-97Category Sessions 1st q. Med 3rd q.Wikiana 88 6 11 15.25All users 577642 3 8 17Table 2: Summary statistics for the number of itemsviewed in per session for users coming from our sys-tem (Wikiana) and for all Europeana users.priate results, only one of the 23 uninterestingitems was judged appropriate, while 8 out of 9of the appropriate items were also judged to beinteresting.
We are now looking at whether theitem meta-data might allow filtering uninterestingitems, as they seem unlikely to be appropriate.Additionally the approach taken by (Zhu et al,2007), where multiple images are shown per para-graph, is also being investigated, as this might re-duce the impact of non-appropriate items.4.2 Log analysisAlthough the paragraph augmentation results arenot as good as we had hoped, a log analysis showsthat the system can achieve its goal of introduc-ing new users to an unknown CH collection (Eu-ropeana).
The system has been available onlinefor three months, although not widely advertised,and we have collected Europeana?s web-logs forthe same period.
Using the referer information inthe logs we can distinguish users that came to Eu-ropeana through our system from all other Euro-peana users.
Based on this classification the num-ber of items viewed per session were calculated(table 2).
To prevent the evaluation experimentinfluencing the log analysis only logs acquired be-fore the experiment date were used.Table 2 clearly shows that users comingthrough our system exhibit different browsing pat-terns.
The first quartile is higher, indicating thatWikiana users do not leave Europeana as quickly,which is further supported by the fact that 30% ofthe general users leave Europeana after viewingthree items or less, while for Wikiana users it isonly 19%.
At the same time the third quartile islower, showing that Wikiana users are less likelyto have long sessions on Europeana.
The differ-ence in the session length distributions has alsobeen validated using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov test(p = 0.00287, D = 0.1929).From this data we draw the hypothesis thatWikiana is at least in part successfully attractingusers to Europeana that would normally not visitor not stay and that it successfully helps usersovercome that first hurdle that causes almost onethird of all Europeana users to leave after viewingthree or less items.5 Conclusion and Future WorkRecent digitisation efforts have led to large dig-ital cultural heritage (CH) collections and whilesearch facilities provide access to users familiarwith the collections there is a lack of methods forintroducing new users to these collections.
In thispaper we propose a novel method for discover-ing items in an unfamiliar collection by brows-ing Wikipedia.
As the user browses Wikipediaarticles, these are augmented with a number ofthumbnail images of items taken from the un-known collection that are appropriate to the ar-ticle?s content.
This enables the new user to be-come familiar with what is available in the collec-tion without having to immediately interact withthe collection?s search interface.An early evaluation of the very straightforwardaugmentation process revealed that further workis required to improve the appropriateness of theitems used to augment the Wikipedia articles.
Atthe same time a log analysis of Europeana brows-ing sessions showed that users introduced to Eu-ropeana through our system were less likely toleave after viewing less than three items, pro-viding clear indication that the methodology pro-posed in this paper is successful in introducingnew users to a large, aggregated CH collection.Future work will focus on improving the qual-ity of the augmentation results by including morecollections into the article-level augmentation andby introducing an ?interestingness?
ranking intothe paragraph augmentation.
We will also look atevaluating the system in a task-based setting andwith existing, comparable systems.AcknowledgementsThe research leading to these results has receivedfunding from the European Community?s Sev-enth Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013)under grant agreement n?
270082.
We ac-knowledge the contribution of all project part-ners involved in PATHS (see: http://www.paths-project.eu).98ReferencesKeith Andrews, Christian Gutl, Josef Moser, VedranSabol, and Wilfried Lackner.
2001.
Search resultvisualisation with xfind.
In uidis, page 0050.
Pub-lished by the IEEE Computer Society.Murtha Baca.
2003.
Practical issues in applying meta-data schemas and controlled vocabularies to culturalheritage information.
Cataloging & ClassificationQuarterly, 36(3?4):47?55.Christine L. Borgman.
2009.
The digital future isnow: A call to action for the humanities.
Digitalhumanities quarterly, 3(4).Andy Borman, Rada Mihalcea, and Paul Tarau.
2005.Picnet: Augmenting semantic resources with pic-torial representations.
In Knowledge Collectionfrom Volunteer Contributors: Papers from the 2005Spring Symposium, volume Technical Report SS-05-03.
American Association for Artificial Intelli-gence.Abdus Sattar Chaudhry and Tan Pei Jiun.
2005.
En-hancing access to digital information resources onheritage: A case of development of a taxonomy atthe integrated museum and archives system in sin-gapore.
Journal of Documentation, 61(6):751?776.Chaomei Chen, Timothy Cribbin, Jasna Kuljis, andRobert Macredie.
2002.
Footprints of informationforagers: behaviour semantics of visual exploration.International Journal of Human-Computer Studies,57(2):139 ?
163.Blaz Fortuna, Marko Grobelnik, and Dunja Mladenic.2005.
Visualization of text document corpus.
In-formatica, 29:497?502.Evgeniy Gabrilovich and Shaul Markovitch.
2007.Computing semantic relatedness using wikipedia-based explicit semantic analysis.
In Proceedingsof the 20th international joint conference on Artif-ical intelligence, IJCAI?07, pages 1606?1611, SanFrancisco, CA, USA.
Morgan Kaufmann PublishersInc.Guntram Geser.
2004.
Resource discovery - positionpaper: Putting the users first.
Resource DiscoveryTechnologies for the Heritage Sector, 6:7?12.Kasper Hornb?k and Morten Hertzum.
2011.
The no-tion of overview in information visualization.
In-ternational Journal of Human-Computer Studies,69(7-8):509 ?
525.Antoine Isaac, Stefan Schlobach, Henk Matthezing,and Claus Zinn.
2007.
Integrated access to cul-tural heritage resources through representation andalignment of controlled vocabularies.
Library Re-view, 67(3):187?199.Sook Lim.
2009.
How and why do college studentsuse wikipedia?
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science and Technology, 60(11):2189?2202.Xia Lin.
1992.
Visualization for the document space.In Proceedings of the 3rd conference on Visualiza-tion ?92, VIS ?92, pages 274?281, Los Alamitos,CA, USA.
IEEE Computer Society Press.Teun Lucassen and Jan Maarten Schraagen.
2010.Trust in wikipedia: how users trust informationfrom an unknown source.
In Proceedings of the 4thworkshop on Information credibility, WICOW ?10,pages 19?26, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Dongning Luo, Jing Yang, Milos Krstajic, WilliamRibarsky, and Daniel A. Keim.
2012.
Eventriver:Visually exploring text collections with temporalreferences.
Visualization and Computer Graphics,IEEE Transactions on, 18(1):93 ?105, jan.Gary Marchionini.
2006.
Exploratory search: Fromfinding to understanding.
Communications of theACM, 49(4):41?46.David Milne and Ian H. Witten.
2008.
Learningto link with wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the17th ACM conference on Information and knowl-edge management, CIKM ?08, pages 509?518, NewYork, NY, USA.
ACM.Glen Newton, Alison Callahan, and Michel Dumon-tier.
2009.
Semantic journal mappiong for searchvisualization in a large scale article digital library.In Second Workshop on Very Large Digital Li-braries at ECDL 2009.Xiaochuan Ni, Jian-Tao Sun, Jian Hu, and ZhengChen.
2009.
Mining multilingual topics fromwikipedia.
In Proceedings of the 18th internationalconference on World wide web, WWW ?09, pages1155?1156, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Panagiotis Papadakos, Stella Kopidaki, Nikos Arme-natzoglou, and Yannis Tzitzikas.
2009.
Ex-ploratory web searching with dynamic taxonomiesand results clustering.
In Maristella Agosti,Jose?
Borbinha, Sarantos Kapidakis, Christos Pa-patheodorou, and Giannis Tsakonas, editors, Re-search and Advanced Technology for Digital Li-braries, volume 5714 of Lecture Notes in ComputerScience, pages 106?118.
Springer Berlin / Heidel-berg.Peter Pirolli.
2009.
Powers of 10: Modelingcomplex information-seeking systems at multiplescales.
Computer, 42(3):33?40.Patrick L Schmitz and Michael T Black.
2008.
Thedelphi toolkit: Enabling semantic search for mu-seum collections.
In Museums and the Web 2008:the international conference for culture and her-itage on-line.Nick J. Schweitzer.
2008.
Wikipedia and psychology:Coverage of concepts and its use by undergraduatestudents.
Teaching of Psychology, 35(2):81?85.Michael Steemson.
2004.
Digicult experts seek outdiscovery technologies for cultural heritage.
Re-source Discovery Technologies for the HeritageSector, 6:14?20.99Fabian M. Suchanek, Gjergji Kasneci, and GerhardWeikum.
2008.
Yago: A large ontology fromwikipedia and wordnet.
Web Semantics: Sci-ence, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web,6(3):203 ?
217.
World Wide Web Conference2007Semantic Web Track.Alistair Sutcliffe and Mark Ennis.
1998.
Towards acognitive theory of information retrieval.
Interact-ing with Computers, 10:321?351.Jacco van Ossenbruggen, Alia Amin, Lynda Hard-man, Michiel Hildebrand, Mark van Assem, BorysOmelayenko, Guus Schreiber, Anna Tordai, Vic-tor de Boer, Bob Wielinga, Jan Wielemaker, Marcode Niet, Jos Taekema, Marie-France van Orsouw,and Annemiek Teesing.
2007.
Searching and an-notating virtual heritage collections with semantic-web technologies.
In Museums and the Web 2007.Robert Villa, Martin Halvey, Hideo Joho, David Han-nah, and Joemon M. Jose.
2010.
Can an interme-diary collection help users search image databaseswithout annotations?
In Proceedings of the 10thannual joint conference on Digital libraries, JCDL?10, pages 303?312, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Daniel S. Weld, Raphael Hoffmann, and Fei Wu.2009.
Using wikipedia to bootstrap open informa-tion extraction.
SIGMOD Rec., 37:62?68, March.Xiaojin Zhu, Andrew B. Goldberg, Mohamed Eldawy,Charles A. Dyer, and Bradley Strock.
2007.
A text-to-picture synthesis system for augmenting commu-nication.
In The integrated intelligence track ofthe 22nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence(AAAI-07).100
