Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Deception Detection, pages 55?62,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsLet?s lie together:Co-presence effects on children?s deceptive skillsMarc SwertsTilburg UniversitySchool of HumanitiesTilburg center for Communication and Cognition (TiCC)Tilburg, The Netherlandsm.g.j.swerts@uvt.nlAbstractA person?s expressive behavior is differ-ent in situations where he or she is alone,or where an additional person is present.This study looks at the extent to which suchphysical co-presence effects have an impacton a child?s ability to deceive.
Using anexperimental digitized puppet show, truth-ful and deceptive utterances were elicitedfrom children who were interacting withtwo story characters.
The children weresitting alone, or as a couple together withanother child.
A first perception study inwhich minimal pairs of truthful and decep-tive utterances were shown (vision-only) toadult observers revealed that the correct de-tection of deceptive utterances is depen-dent on whether the stimuli were producedby a child alone or together with anotherchild (both being visible).
A second per-ception study presented participants withvideos from children of the couples condi-tion that were edited so that only one childwas visible.
The study revealed that the de-ceptive utterances could more often be de-tected correctly in the more talkative chil-dren than in the more passive ones.1 IntroductionDeceiving others is not always easy.
Past re-search has shown that various factors can have adetrimental effect on a person?s deceptive skills,as it may matter whom one tries to deceive,what kind of lie is being produced, and un-der what circumstances a lie is elicited (De-Paulo, Lindsay, Malone, Muhlenbruck, Charlton,& Cooper 2003).
The current study wants to ex-plore whether the behavior of a deceiver is in-fluenced by co-presence effects: i.e., is there anessential difference between a deceiver who issolely responsible for the lie he or she is produc-ing, and someone who shares the responsibilityfor the deceit with another person who is phys-ically present.
We investigate such questions indata produced by children around the age of 5,and focus in particular on possible nonverbal cuesto deception.
As such, the current investigationfits with other studies on deceptive skills of chil-dren, given that these skills may reveal importantaspects of a child?s cognitive development.
In-deed, telling a lie is often claimed to be mentallymore demanding than telling the truth, and alsopresumes that one is able to understand and ma-nipulate another person?s perspective on a givenstate of affair.
Given this, the study of lies hasbeen thought to be potentially useful as a meansto learn more about how growing children developtheir metacognitive skills (e.g.
Talwar, Lee, Bala,& Lindsay, 2004; Talwar, Murphy, & Lee, 2007).Previous researchers have often explored some-one?s deceptive skills by running perception ex-periments in which independent observers have tojudge in recordings of speakers whether a personis telling the truth or not.
The current study ex-plores whether the detection of a lie is differentwhen an observer has to judge the recording ofa person who is alone, or of a person who pro-duces a lie together with another person.
Fromthe literature, it is not immediately clear whetherco-presence effects are likely to maximize or di-minish the perceived difference between truth anddeceit.
On the one hand, one could hypothesizethat the presence of another person may make iteasier for an observer to detect whether some-one is telling the truth or not.
Such an expecta-tion could be based on studies that suggest that55people contaminate each other?s expressive be-haviour, such that their facial and other nonverbalcues become more pronounced and more clearlyinterpretable for observers as cues to deception.In a study with game-playing children (Shahid,Krahmer, & Swerts 2008), to give an example,it was found that observers tend to find it eas-ier to determine whether a child had won or losta card guessing game, when it was playing to-gether with another child, compared to a situationin which it was playing the game alone.
That re-sult is reminiscent of work on gesturing, where itis often reported that speakers become more ex-pressive when they are directly being observed bysomeone else.
Bavelas, Gerwing, Sutton, and Pre-vost (2008), for instance, found that speakers ges-ture more and with a larger amplitude if they areengaged in a face-to-face interaction, comparedto a telephone conversation or in a setting wherethey talk to an answering machine.
Similar find-ings were reported by Mol, Krahmer, Maes, andSwerts (2009).On the other hand, findings that indicate thatpeople become more expressive in the presenceof other people may not generalize to all situa-tional contexts, and may sometimes even be op-posite to what was described above.
For instance,Lee and Wagner (2002) analysed video record-ings of women who were speaking about a pos-itive or a negative experience either in the pres-ence of an experimenter or alone.
They foundthat women were more expressive about posi-tive emotions when another person was present,whereas the negative emotions were less clearlyexpressed when someone else was present.
Theseresults show that social context can have differ-ent kinds of effects on a person?s nonverbal be-havior depending on a speaker?s specific state ofmind.
This begs the question as to what happenswhen people are trying to deceive another person,and whether possible nonverbal correlates of theirdeceptive behavior become more pronounced orrather more diminished in contexts where they arealone, or physically co-present with other people.Moreover, from a perceptual perspective, it is notclear whether an observer would profit from thefact that he or she has to judge the truthfulness ofonly one person or of more than one person simul-taneously.
It could be that the exposure to multi-ple persons would make it easier for an observerbecause of having access to more resources to de-cide about truth or lie.
But it could also be the casethat the mere fact that an observer would haveto judge multiple people at the same time wouldmake the task of detecting deception more chal-lenging than in the case where only one personis speaking, because it might be that subtle cor-relates of deception would escape the observer?sattention.Given the overall aim to investigate the effectof physical co-presence on a child?s deceptive be-havior, this study also explores whether the child?sspecific role in a situational context is of impor-tance for the correct detection of deception.
It hasof course already been known for a few decadesthat a person?s personality may matter, for in-stance in that extraverts tend to show more cor-relates of deception than introvert people (e.g.Bradley & Janisse 1981).
Also, previous worksuggests that more dominant people exhibit dif-ferent kinds of nonverbal behaviour than follow-ers (Tiedens & Fragale 2003).
In line with thisobservation, we will look at children who are pas-sive or active in a setting, and see whether thatdifference has repercussions for lie detection.
Onthe one hand, active children in being more in-volved in the interaction may increase the likeli-hood of showing nonverbal cues to deception.
Onthe other hand, it may that the more passive chil-dren may reveal such cues more clearly, as a resultof their belief that the observer?s focus of attentionis directed towards the more active child, so thatthey leak more cues to deception.The current research consists of two perceptionexperiments.
Experiment 1 investigates whethercorrelates of a child?s deceptive behaviour aredifferent for situations in which the child is ei-ther alone or co-present with another child.
Ex-periment 2 looks at differences between partici-pants within an interaction, in particular compar-ing children who are very active and talkative ver-sus those who take less initiative.
We only focuson visual cues (from which auditory features areremoved), given that earlier work (Ecoff, Ekman,Mage & Frank 2000) has shown that observerscan more accurately detect deception when theyonly have to focus on one modality (compared totests with multimodal stimuli).2 Interactive elicitation procedureTo obtain truthful and deceptive utterances fromchildren, a new elicitation procedure was used,56based on a computerized version of an animatedpuppet show.
In the set-up, child participants areseated in front of a computer screen on which theysee a story that unfolds.
While the story is actuallycontrolled by the experimenter (whom the childcannot see), the child is given the impression thatsome crucial actions of 2 main characters dependon the input of the child participant.
During theinteraction, the video and speech of the child arebeing recorded with a camera that is positioned onthe top of the computer screen to which the childis looking.
In this way, the recordings capture thefaces and upper part of the chest (frontal view) ofthe child participants.Figure 1: A few visual materials of scenes used inthe interactive puppet showThe show starts with a longer part in which anarrating voice introduces 2 main characters, aprince (the good guy) and a dragon (the bad guy),to the participating child, in a typical fairy-taleplot.
The narrator explains to the child that a baddragon has been terrorizing a far-away country.Luckily, Prince Peter has come up with a plan tocapture the dragon, for which he needs the helpfrom the child.
The narrator explains that the per-son who catches the dragon, receives a reward(a bag of gold) from the king.
In order to in-crease the child?s level of engagement, an actualbag of gold (actually, chocolate coins wrapped ingoldish-looking paper) is clearly shown on a tablein the visual field of the participant.
Then the in-teractive part starts in which child utterances areelicited from exchanges with the 2 main charac-ters of the story, the prince and the dragon.
Theinteractive part contains 2 central scenes designedto elicit minimal pairs of truthful and deceptive ut-terances from children to be used in a perceptiontest later on.
As will become clear below, decep-tive utterances are elicited from a child?s interac-tion with the dragon, and the truthful ones frominteractions with the prince.First, the prince appears, and asks the child forits name, mainly to ensure that the latter becomesaware that it can interact with the story character.After this, the prince tells the child that he wantsto capture the dragon, and needs the child?s help.He tells the child that he will hide behind a tree(shown on the left of the screen), and that, if thedragon appears, the child needs to tell the dragonthat the prince has entered the castle (shown onthe right of the screen).
Then he hides behindthe tree, after which the dragon appears on stageand asks the child where the prince is.
The childtypically replies with a deceptive phrase like ?inthe castle?
(first deceptive response), after whichthe dragon expresses some disbelief about this re-sponse, and repeats the earlier question, so thatthe child needs to repeat the earlier response (sec-ond deceptive response).
Then, the dragon leaves,enters the castle, after which the prince appearsagain.
He tells the child he believes he has heardthe dragon, and asks where the dragon is, to whicha child typically responds with a truthful ?in thecastle?
(first truthful response).
The prince sayshe cannot believe that response, so asks the childto repeat its truthful utterance (second truthful re-sponse).
Given that both the deceptive and truth-ful scene contain a repeat, we obtain 4 versionsfrom every participating child of the utterance?in the castle?
(or equivalent phrases like ?in thetower?, or ?in the church?
): first and second at-57tempts of truthful and deceptive utterances.
Fig-ure 1 depicts some representative scenes from thestory.We obtained minimal pairs (truthful and de-ceptive variants of the utterance ?in the castle?
)from 38 children (18 boys; 20 girls), who had vol-unteered for the experiment with written consentfrom their parents and/or primary caretakers.
Theaverage age of these children was 5 years and 7months (minimum: 4 years and 10 months; max-imum: 6 and 4 months) in addition, we collectedrecordings for 10 pairs of children who did thesame task as the singles, but sitting next to eachother and both facing the screen.
Their averageage was 5 years and 5 months (minimum: 4 yearsand 3 months; maximum: 6 and 9 months).
Notethat the task given to the pairs of children wasthe same as the one given to the children sittingalone.
It was interesting to note that there was es-sentially no interaction between two participantsin the pairs condition, and that they basically onlyresponded to questions and instructions from thestory characters.
We did observe, however, thatwithin these pairs, there tended to be a division oflabor, in that one of the children would typicallytake the initiative and talk to the story characters,while the other would be more passive.3 Experiment 1: singles vs. couplesThe first experiment explores whether there is adifference in the extent to which lies can be de-tected in children who are interacting alone withsome story characters, versus children who aredoing a similar task together with another child.3.1 Method3.1.1 StimuliThe stimuli consisted of the children?s re-sponses to either the prince (truthful) or thedragon (deceptive), where some of the childrenwere interacting alone, and some were interact-ing in couples.
As said above, stimuli were pre-sented as video-only materials, so with the soundremoved.3.1.2 ParticipantsThe data for the singles condition were col-lected in an earlier study, and came from 20 ob-servers (Swerts 2011).
In addition, 121 partici-pants took part in the couples condition of the ex-periment, as partial fulfillment to get course cred-its.3.1.3 ProcedureObservers were presented with pairs of videorecordings, i.e., a truthful and a deceptive utter-ance of either a single child, or similar clips inwhich 2 children are visible who are sitting nextto each other.
Pairs of recordings were either com-paring the children?s first time they had respondedto a question from the prince or the dragon, orpairs of utterances of their second responses tothose characters.
Note that pairs of stimuli shownto observers were always produced by the samechild.
Stimuli were presented in a group exper-iment, although each participant had to performthe test individually (paper-and-pencil test).
Thetask given to observers was to guess by forcedchoice which of the 2 clips they saw contained achild?s deceptive utterance.
The order of presenta-tion of the truthful and deceptive utterance withina pair, and of the pairs within the larger test wasfully randomized.3.2 ResultsThe observer responses were analysed with a re-peated measures ANOVA with the percentagecorrect detection of deceptive utterances for allstimulus pairs per observer as dependent variable,and with attempt (2 levels: first attempt, secondattempt) and order (2 levels: deceptive utteranceshown first, deceptive utterance shown second)as within-subject factors, and presence (2 levels:alone, together) as between-subject factors.
Ta-ble 1 reveals that, while the main effects of pres-ence and attempt are not significant, there is asignificant effect of presentation order on the ob-servers?
likelihood to correctly detect the decep-tive utterance: deceptive utterances could moreeasily be detected correctly if they were shownafter the truthful utterance, rather than the otherway around.
In addition, we found a significant2-way interaction between attempt and presence(F(1,139) = 5.793, p < .05, 2p = .040), whichcan be explained by the data shown in table 2.As can be seen, for the alone condition, observerstend to find it easier to detect the deceptive utter-ance in pairs of second interactions with the storycharacters, than in the first interactions.
However,for those stimuli taken from children being to-gether, there appears to be no difference between58Table 1: Percentage correct detection of deception (mean, standard error, 95% intervals) and F-statistics fordifferent levels of experimental factorsFactor Level Correct detection F-statsPresence Alone 58.0 (.24, 53.1 ?
62.8) F(1,139) = .991, p = n.s.,Together 60.6 (.10, 58.7 ?
62.6) 2p = .007Attempt First 57.4 (.18, 53.9 ?
61.0) F(1,139) = 2.556, p = n.s.,Second 61.2 (.17, 57.8 ?
64.6) 2p = .018Order Deception first 53.2 (.18, 49.6 ?
56.8) F(1,139) = 24.163, p < .001,Deception second 65.4 (.18, 61.8 ?
68.9) 2p = .148Table 2: Percentage correct detection of deception(mean, standard error) for speakers in alone or couplescondition as a function of order of speaker attemptAttemptPresence First SecondAlone 52.3 (.33) 62.7 (.32)Together 61.6 (.14) 59.7 (.13)first and second attempts.3.3 DiscussionWhile the experiment did not reveal a main ef-fect of co-presence on the detection of deception,that factor turned out to be important in a 2-wayinteraction with attempt.
This significant interac-tion may be explained by ceiling effects that areonly true for the condition in which 2 childrenwere being observed, but appear to be absent inthe alone condition.
That is, in the alone condi-tion, the probability to correctly detect a lie ap-pears to depend on whether observers were seeinga first or second attempt of a child interacting withthe story characters.
As table 2 reveals, during asecond attempt, a single child was more likely toshow correlates of deceptive behavior comparedto its first attempt.
That effect may be due to thefact that during a second attempt a child is moreconsciously aware of the fact that it tries to de-ceive which may have the ironic counter-effectthat more cues to deception are leaked, as it triesharder than the first time (Swerts 2011; see alsoWardlow Lane et al 2006).
However, in the to-gether condition, it appears not to matter whetherthe children were interacting for the first or sec-ond time; rather, the results appears to be around60% correct detection both during first and sec-ond attempts.
Compared with related studies inthis area of research (e.g.
DePaulo, Lindsay, Mal-one, Muhlenbruck, Charlton, & Cooper, 2003),this percentage is high, so that some ceiling ef-fects may come into play: the correct detectionfor first attempts is already so high that it is hardto get even better results during second attempts.While experiment 1 has provided some evidencethat detection of deceit is affected by co-presenceeffects, it remains unclear whether observers wereable to extract cues to deception from both chil-dren in the together condition or whether theywere especially paying attention to certain typesof children.
More specifically, informal observa-tions of the video clips suggested that some chil-dren were playing a more active role in the inter-actions than other children.4 Experiment 2: active vs. passivechildrenExperiment 2 explores to what extent differencesbetween the child participants (talkative vs. silentones) may influence an observer?s ability to find adeceptive utterance.4.1 Method4.1.1 StimuliThe stimuli showed children from the couplescondition of experiment 1, except that the clipsonly showed 1 child (zoomed in so that the otherchild was not visible).
As discussed above, whentwo children were placed next to each other to in-teract with the prince and the dragon in the story,there tended to be one child who was more active59Table 3: Percentage correct detection of deception (mean, standard error, 95% intervals) and F-statistics fordifferent levels of experimental factorsFactor Level Correct detection F-statsSpeaker Passive 50.4 (.18, 46.8 ?
54.0) F(1,92) = 47.160, p < .001,Active 62.0 (.15, 59.1 ?
64.9) 2p = .339Order Deception first 47.3 (.18, 43.7 ?
50.9) F(1,92) = 23.889, p < .001,Deception second 65.1 (.16, 61.9 ?
68.3) 2p = .206than the other when addressing the story charac-ters.
For the purpose of the current experiment,we distinguished between children who were la-beled ?active?
as those who had been speaking inboth the truthful and deceptive utterance, versusthe ?passive?
ones as those who had been silent inat least one of the two.
In doing so, we obtained13 active and 7 passive children.
Also, given thatwe were only interested in the effect of passive vsactive children and to reduce the time it took tocomplete the experiment, we decided to only usestimuli from the second attempts of the childrento produce a truthful or deceptive utterance.4.1.2 ParticipantsIn total, 93 participants took part in the exper-iment, as partial fulfillment to get course credits.None of them had participated in any of the per-ception tests of experiment 1.4.1.3 ProcedureThe procedure of this experiment was exactlythe same as the one used for experiment 1.4.2 ResultsThe data were again analysed with a repeatedmeasures ANOVA with the percentage correct de-tection of deceptive utterances for all stimuluspairs per observer as dependent variable, and withorder (2 levels: deceptive utterance shown first,deceptive utterance shown second) and speakerrole (2 levels: active, passive) as independentwithin-subject factors.
As shown in table 3, bothspeaker type and presentation order had a signif-icant effect on correct detection of the deceptiveutterance, such that observers found it easier todetect the lies in the more active speakers, and inthose pairs in which the deceptive utterance waspresented as the second one in a pair (see alsoexperiment 1).
Interestingly, the interaction be-Table 4: Percentage correct detection of deception(mean, standard error) for passive and active speakersas a function of order of deceptive utteranceDeceptive utteranceSpeaker shown first shown secondPassive 39.8 (.27) 61.0 (.27)Active 54.8 (.22) 69.2 (.18)tween order and speaker role was not significant(F(1,92) = 2.432, p = n.s., 2p = .026).
As ta-ble 4 reveals, the 2 effects of speaker role and or-der are additive.4.3 DiscussionExperiment 2 has shown that the likelihood ofcorrectly detecting whether a child is deceivingor speaking the truth depends on how active it iswithin a specific social context.
That is, when ittakes the initiative of responding to the story char-acters and is being relatively talkative, then thislevel of engagement makes it easier for an ob-server to decide whether or not the child is pro-ducing a lie.
Further research is needed to find outwhy exactly it is that detection of deception is eas-ier when people have to judge more active partic-ipants.
One reason could be that children who aremore active are also more expressive, which in-creases the chances that specific cues to deceptionare leaked to an observer.
Such an explanationwould be compatible with earlier findings that theaccuracy with which lies can be detected correctlyvaries for deceivers who have different personal-ities.
More specifically, it has been shown that,when comparing introvert with extravert people,it is generally easier to detect the lies in the lattergroup (Bradley & Janisse, 1981).In the current set-up of the experiment, the chil-60dren were not explicitly given any explicit roles inthe story, for instance, in that one of them wouldbe asked to be silent, while the other would begiven the instruction to take initiative with thecharacters of the story.
Rather, their level of en-gagement within the interactive story occurredspontaneously in the course of the interaction,which was thought to guarantee that their interac-tion was relatively natural.
In future work, how-ever, it could be worthwhile to make a partici-pants?
active or passive role within the discoursemore explicit to the child and also measure as-pects of their personality.
This would help to de-cide whether the detection of deception is due tothe fact that some children are more active, or tothe fact that some children are more extravert, orto a combination of these factors.5 General discussionThe current study revealed that deceiving childrenare affected by co-presence effects.
Experiment 1,in which minimal pairs of truthful and deceptiveutterances were shown (vision-only) to adult ob-servers, brought to light that the correct detectionof deceptive utterances is dependent on whetherthe stimuli were produced by a child alone or to-gether with another child.
This result reminds oneof some practices in typical investigations of acommitted crime, where it is general practice toconfront various suspects with each other.
Usu-ally, the goal of letting multiple suspects meetis to confront them with each other?s statementsfrom earlier police interrogations during whichthey were separately interviewed independentlyfrom each other.
If these earlier sessions has letto inconsistencies between the statements of thedifferent suspects, it might be interesting to seehow suspects react when they are exposed to eachother?s claims in a face-to-face situation.
Ideally,such a confrontation might help to let one of themconfess, or admit that an earlier claim was false.Obviously, the story paradigm used in the produc-tion experiment to elicit truthful and deceptive ut-terances is different from such a police case, butit does show that presence effects may maximizethe differences between truth and deceit.This result appears to be compatible with theidea that the presence of another person increasesa liar?s social awareness, which in turn might havea detrimental effect on that person?s deceptiveskills.
Such an effect could be similar to the re-ported effect of an increased mental load on de-ceptive behaviour: lying is generally assumed tobe more cognitively demanding than truth telling(e.g.
DePaulo, Lindsay, Malone, Muhlenbruck,Charlton, & Cooper 2003; Vrij, Fisher, Mann, &Leal 2006), given that liars have to monitor moretasks than truth telling people, such as inventingfacts and controlling their behaviour while inter-acting with another person.
Consequently, tech-niques that increase cognitive load, e.g.
askingpeople to tell a story in reverse order (Vrij, Mann,Fisher, Leal, Milne, & Bull, 2008) or instructingthem to maintain eye contact with an interviewer(Vrij, Mann, Leal, & Fisher 2010), tend to leadto the effect that deception becomes more easilyobservable.
Under conditions of such increasedcognitive load, deceivers supposedly have less re-sources to monitor their behavior, so that they leakcues that others may pick up as indicators of de-ception.
Similarly, an increased social awarenessbecause of the mere presence of another personcould possibly lead to leaking more cues to lies.The second perception experiment presentedparticipants with videos from children of the cou-ples condition that were edited so that only onechild was visible.
The study revealed that the de-ceptive utterances could more often be detectedcorrectly in the more talkative children comparedto the more passive ones.
It remains to be seenwhether these results are due to the fact that thehigher probability of correctly detecting decep-tion in the more active children is due to the factthat their higher level of engagement makes themmore expressive and more likely to leak cues todeception, or because these more active childrenhave a more extravert personality that has beenshown to show more cues to deception than moreintrovert children (Bradley & Janisse, 1981).And finally, we found an additional order ef-fect, as deceptive utterances can more often bedetected correctly when they are presented as thesecond in a pair, as opposed to when they are pre-sented as the first ones.
This effect, in line withprevious observations by O?Sullivan et al(1988),could be related to what is known as the truthbias in the literature on deception, which refersto ?an a priori belief, expectation, or presumptionthat reflects the oft-observed tendency to assumecommunicators are truthful most of the time?
(e.g.Burgoon et al 2008, p. 575).
Accordingly, thiscould possibly lead to the effect that an initial ut-61terance is first processed as being truthful, and re-vised if an utterance contains counter-evidence tothis effect.
Therefore, given that the truthful utter-ances are more in line with default expectations ofan observer, it would become more easy to detectthe deceptive utterance as the more marked anddeviant case, if it is presented after the truthfulone.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the director, teachers, parents andchildren of the elementary school ?The Palet?
inHapert and ?de Oversteek?
in Liempde (both inThe Netherlands) for their willingness to partic-ipate in the interactive story experiment.
Manythanks also to Lennard van de Laar and EmielKrahmer for help with setting up the elicitationprocedure and perception experiment, to Mar-lon van Dijk, Linda Dolmans and John van denBroeck for help with collecting the stimuli andthe perception results, and to Marieke Hoetjes andLisette Mol for comments on an earlier version ofthis document.6 ReferencesBavelas, J., Gerwing, J., Sutton, C., & Prevost, D.(2008).
Gesturing on the telephone: Indepen-dent effects of dialogue and visibility.
Journalof Memory and Language 58, 495?520.Bradley, M. T. & Janisse, M.P.
(1981) Extraver-sion and the detection of deception Personalityand Individual Differences 2, 99?103Burgoon, J.K., Blair, J.P. & Strom, R.E.
(2008)Cognitive Biases and Nonverbal Cue Availabil-ity in Detecting Deception.
Human Communi-cation Research, 34 572?599.DePaulo, B., Lindsay, J., Malone, B., Muhlen-bruck, L., Charlton, K., & Cooper, H. (2003).Cues to deception.
Psychological Bulletin, 129,74?118.Ecoff, N.L., Ekman, P., Mage, J.J. & Frank, M.G.
(2000) Lie Detection And Language Compre-hension.
Nature, 405, 139.Lee, V. & Wagner, H. (2002).
The Effect of SocialPresence on the Facial and Verbal Expressionof Emotion and the Interrelationships AmongEmotion Components.
Journal of NonverbalBehavior, 26, 3?25.Mol, L., Krahmer, E., Maes, A.A., & Swerts,M.
(2009).
The communicative import of ges-tures: Evidence from a comparative analysis ofhuman-human and human-machine interactionsGesture 9, 97?126.O?Sullivan, M., Ekman, P. & Friesen, W.V.(1988).
The effect of comparisons on detectingdeceit Journal of Nonverbal Behavior 12, 203?215.Shahid, S., Krahmer, E.J., & Swerts, M. (2008).Alone or together: Exploring the effect of phys-ical co-presence on the emotional expressionsof game playing children across cultures.
In: P.Markopoulus et al (Eds.
), Fun and Games (pp.94-105).
Springer.
(Lecture Notes in ComputerScience LNCS, 5294)Swerts, M. (2011).
Correlates of social awarenessin the visual prosody of growing children.
Lab-oratory Phonology, 2(2), 381?402.Talwar, V., Lee, K., Bala, N. & Lindsay, R.C.L.(2004).
Children?s Lie-Telling to Conceal Par-ents?
Transgressions: Legal Implications.
Lawand Human Behavior, 28 411?435.Talwar, V., Murphy S., & Lee, K. (2007) Whitelie-telling in children for politeness purposes.International Journal of Behavioral Develop-ment, 31, 1?11.Tiedens, L. & Fragale, A.R.
(2003) Power Moves:Complementarity in Dominant and SubmissiveNonverbal Behavior.
Journal of Personality andSocial Psychology (84), 558?568.Vrij, A., Fisher, R., Mann, S., & Leal (2006)Detecting deception by manipulating cognitiveload Trends in cognitive sciences 10, 141?142.Vrij, A., Mann, S., Fisher, R., Leal, S., Milne, R.,& Bull, R. (2008) Increasing cognitive load tofacilitate lie detection: the benefit of recallingam event in reverse order.
Law and Human Be-havior 32, 253?265.Vrij, A., Mann, S., Leal, S. & Fisher, R. (2010)?Look into my eyes?
: can an instruction tomaintain eye contact facilitate lie detection?Psychology, Crime & Law, 16 (4), 327?348Wagner, H., & Lee, V. (1999).
Facial behav-ior alone and in the presence of others.
In: P.Philippott et al (eds.)
The social context ofnonverbal behavior, pp.
262?286.
CambridgeUniversity Press, New York.Wardlow Lane, Liane, Michelle Groisman & Vic-tor S. Ferreira.
(2006).
Don?t Talk About PinkElephants!
Speakers?
Control Over LeakingPrivate Information During Language Produc-tion.
Psychological Science 17 ( 4), 273-277.62
