Proceedings of the 2012 Student Research Workshop, pages 19?24,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuery classification using topic models and support vector machineDieu-Thu LeUniversity of Trento, Italydieuthu.le@disi.unitn.itRaffaella BernardiUniversity of Trento, Italybernardi@disi.unitn.itAbstractThis paper describes a query classificationsystem for a specialized domain.
We take asa case study queries asked to a search engineof an art, cultural and history library and clas-sify them against the library cataloguing cate-gories.
We show how click-through links, i.e.,the links that a user clicks after submitting aquery, can be exploited for extracting informa-tion useful to enrich the query as well as forcreating the training set for a machine learn-ing based classifier.
Moreover, we show howTopic Model can be exploited to further enrichthe query with hidden topics induced from thelibrary meta-data.
The experimental evalua-tions show that this system considerably out-performs a matching and ranking classifica-tion approach, where queries (and categories)were also enriched with similar information.1 IntroductionQuery classification (QC) is the task of automati-cally labeling user queries into a given target tax-onomy.
Providing query classification can help theinformation providers understand users?
needs basedon the categories that the users are searching for.The main challenges of this task come from the na-ture of user queries, which are usually very short andambiguous.
Since queries contain only several to adozen words, a QC system often requires either arather large training set or an enrichment of querieswith other information (Shen et al, 2006a), (Broderet al, 2007).This study will focus on QC in art, culture andhistory domain, using the Bridgeman art library1, al-though our framework is general enough to be usedin different domains.
Manually creating a training1http://www.bridgemanart.com/set of queries to build a classifier in a specific do-main is very time-consuming.
In this study, wewill describe our method of automatically creatinga training set based on the click-through links andhow we build an SVM (Support Vector Machine)classifier with the integration of enriched informa-tion.
In (Le et al, 2011), it has been shown thatclick-through information and topic models are use-ful for query enrichment when the ultimate goal isquery classification.
We will follow this enrichmentstep, but integrate this information into a SVM clas-sifier instead of using matching and ranking betweenqueries and categories as in (Le et al, 2011).The purpose of this paper is to determine (1)whether the query enrichment with click-though in-formation and hidden topics is useful for a machinelearning query classification system using SVM; and(2) whether integrating this enriched informationinto a machine learning classifier can perform bet-ter than the matching and ranking system.In the next section, we will briefly review themain streams of related work in QC.
In section 3,we will describe the Bridgeman art library.
Sec-tion 4 accounts for our proposed query classifica-tion framework.
In section 5, we will present ourexperiment and evaluation.
Section 6 concludes bydiscussing our main achievements and proposing fu-ture work.2 Related workInitial studies in QC classify queries into severaldifferent types based on the information needed bythe user.
(Broder, 2002) considered three differenttypes of queries: informational queries, navigationalqueries and transactional queries.
This stream ofstudy focuses on the type of the queries, rather thantopical classification of the queries.Another stream of work deals with the problem19of classifying queries into a more complex taxon-omy containing different topics.
Our study falls intothis second stream.
To classify queries consider-ing their meaning, some work considered only in-formation available in queries (e.g., (Beitzel et al,2005) only used terms in queries).
Some other workhas attempted to enrich queries with informationfrom external online dataset, e.g., web pages (Shenet al, 2006a; Broder et al, 2007) and web direc-tories (Shen et al, 2006b).
Our work is similarto their in the idea of exploiting additional dataset.However, instead of using search engines as a wayof collecting relevant documents, we use the meta-data of the library itself as a reference set.
Further-more, we employ topic models to analyze topics forqueries, rather than enriching queries with words se-lected from those webpages directly as in (Shen etal., 2006a; Broder et al, 2007).The context of a given query can provide use-ful information to determine its categories.
Previ-ous studies have confirmed the importance of searchcontext in QC.
(Cao et al, 2009) considered the con-text to be both previous queries within the same ses-sion and pages of the clicked urls.
In our approach,we will also consider click through information toenrich the queries and analyze topics.In (Le et al, 2011), queries and categories are en-riched with both information mined from the click-through links as well as topics derived from a topicmodel estimated from the library metadata.
Sub-sequently, the queries are mapped to the categoriesbased on their cosine similarity.
Our proposed ap-proach differs from (Le et al, 2011) in three re-spects: (1) we enrich the queries, but not the cat-egories (2) we employ a machine learning systemand integrate this enriched information as features tolearn an SVM classifier (3) we assume that the cate-gory of a query is closely related to the category ofthe corresponding click-through link, hence we au-tomatically create a training data for the SVM clas-sifier by analyzing the query log.3 Bridgeman Art LibraryBridgeman Art Library (BAL)2 is one of the world?stop image libraries for art, culture and history.
Itcontains images from over 8,000 collections and2http://www.bridgemanart.commore than 29,000 artists, providing a central sourceof fine art for image users.Works of art in the library have been annotatedwith titles and keywords.
Some of them are catego-rized into a two-level taxonomy, a more fine-grainedclassification of the Bridgeman browse menu.
In ourstudy, we do not use the image itself but only the in-formation associated with it, i.e., the title, keywordsand categories.
We will take the 55 top-level cate-gories from this taxonomy, which have been orga-nized by a domain expert, as our target taxonomy.4 Building QC using topic models andSVMFollowing (Le et al, 2011), we enrich queries bothwith the information mined from the library viaclick-through links and the information collectedfrom the library metadata via topic modeling.
Toperform the query enrichment with topics derivedfrom the library metadata, there are several impor-tant steps:?
Collecting and organizing the library metadata asa reference set: the library metadata contains the in-formation about artworks that have been annotatedby experts.
To take advantage of this informationautomatically, we collected all annotated artworksand organized them by their given categories.?
Estimating a topic model for this reference set:This step is performed using hidden topic analysismodels.
In this framework, we choose to use latentdirichlet alocation, LDA (Blei et al, 2003b).?
Analyzing topics for queries and integrating topicsinto data for both the training set and new queries:After the reference set has been analyzed using topicmodels, it will be used to infer topics for queries.The topic model will then be integrated into the datato build a classifier.4.1 Query enrichment via click-through linksWe automatically extracted click-through links fromthe query log (which provides us with the title ofthe image that the user clicks) to enrich the query,represented as a vector ?
?qi , with the title of onerandomly-chosen click-through associated with it.To further exploit the click-through link, we findthe corresponding artwork and extract its keywords:?
?qi ??
?ti ???
?kwi, where?
?ti ,??
?kwi are the vectors of words20in the title and keywords respectively.4.2 Hidden Topic ModelsThe underlying idea is based upon a probabilis-tic procedure of generating a new set of artworks,where each set refers to titles and keywords ofall artworks in a category: First, each set ?
?wm= (wm,n)Nmn=1 is generated by sampling a distribu-tion over topics??
?m from a Dirichlet distribution(Dir(???
)), where Nm is the number of words inthat set m. After that, the topic assignment foreach observed word wm,n is performed by sam-pling a word place holder zm,n from a multino-mial distribution (Mult(???m)).
Then a word wm,n ispicked by sampling from the multinomial distribu-tion (Mult(???
zm,n)).
This process is repeated untilall K topics have been generated for the whole col-lection.Table 1: Generation process for LDA?M : the total number of artwork sets?K: the number of (hidden/latent) topics?
V : vocabulary size?
???
,???
: Dirichlet parameters???
?m: topic distribution for document m?
???
k: word distribution for topic k?
Nm: the length of document m?
zm,n: topic index of nth word in document m?
wm,n: a particular word for word placeholder [m, n]?
?
= {??
?m}Mm=1: a M ?K matrix?
?
= {???
k}Kk=1: a K ?
V matrixIn order to estimate parameters for LDA (i.e.,the set of topics and their word probabilities ?and the particular topic mixture of each document?
), different inference techniques can be used,such as variational Bayes (Blei et al, 2003b), orGibbs sampling (Heinrich, 2004).
In this work,we will use Gibbs sampling following the descrip-tion given in (Heinrich, 2004).
Generally, the topicassignment of a particular word t is computed as:p(zi=k|?
?z ?i,?
?w)=n(t)k,?i + ?t[?Vv=1 n(v)k +?v]?1n(k)m,?i + ?k[?Kj=1 n(j)m +?j ]?1(1)where n(t)k,?i is the number of times the word t isassigned to topic k except the current assignment;?Vv=1 n(v)k ?1 is the total number of words assignedto topic k except the current assignment; n(k)m,?i is thenumber of words in set m assigned to topic k exceptthe current assignment; and?Kj=1 n(j)m ?
1 is thetotal number of words in set m except the currentword t. In normal cases, Dirichlet parameters ???
,and???
are symmetric, that is, all ?k (k = 1..K) arethe same, and similarly for ?v (v = 1..V ).4.3 Hidden topic analysis of the BridgemanmetadataThe Bridgeman metadata contains informationabout artworks in the library that have been anno-tated by the librarians.
We extracted titles and key-words of each artwork, those for which we had aquery with a click-through link corresponding to it,and grouped them together by their sub-categories.Each group is considered as a document ?
?wm =(wm,n)Nmn=1, with the number of total documents M= 732 and the vocabulary size V = 136K words.
Inthis experiment, we fix the number of topics K =100.
We used the GibbsLDA++ implementation3 toestimate this topic model.4.4 Building query classifier with hidden topicsLet Q?
= {?
?qi ?
}i=Ni=1 be the set of all queries en-riched via the click-through links, where each en-riched query is ?
?qi ?
=?
?qi ??
?ti ????kwi.
We also per-formed Gibbs sampling for all ?
?qi ?
in order to esti-mate its topic distribution???
i = {?i,1, .
.
.
, ?i,K}where the probability ?i,k of topic k in?
?qi ?
is com-puted as:?i,k =n(k)i + ?k?Kj=1 n(j)i + ?j(2)where n(k)i is the number of words in query i as-signed to topic k and n(j)i is the total number ofwords appearing in the enriched query i.In order to integrate the topic distribution??
?i ={?i,1, .
.
.
, ?i,K} into the vector of words?
?qi ?= {wi,1, wi,2, .
.
.
, wi,Ni}, following (Phan et al,2010), we only keep topics whose ?i,k is larger thana threshold cut-off and use a scale parameter to dothe discretization for topics: the number of timestopic k integrated to ?
?qi ?
is round(?i?
scale).
Afterthat, we build a Support Vector Machine classifierusing SVM light V2.204.3http://gibbslda.sourceforge.net/4http://svmlight.joachims.org/215 EvaluationIn this section, we will describe our training set, goldstandard and the performance of our system in com-parison with the one in (Le et al, 2011).5.1 Training setManually annotating queries to create a training setin this domain is a difficult task (e.g., it requires theexpert to search the query and look at the picture cor-responding to the query, etc.).
Therefore, we haveautomatically generated a training set by exploitinga 6-month query log as follow.First, each query has been mapped to its click-through information to extract the sub-category as-sociated to the corresponding image.
Then, fromthis sub-category, we obtained its correspondingtop-cateogry (among the 55 we consider) as definedin BAL taxonomy.
The distribution of queries indifferent categories varies quite a lot among the 55target categories reflecting the artwork distribution(e.g., there are many more artworks in the library be-longing to the category ?Religion and Belief?
thanto the category?Costume and Fashion?).
We havepreserved such distribution over the target categorieswhen selecting randomly the 15,490 queries to buildour training set.
After removing all punctuations andstop words, we obtained a training set containing50,337 words in total.
Each word in this set servesas a feature for the SVM classifier.5.2 Test setWe used the test set of 1,049 queries used in (Le etal., 2011), which is separate from the training set.These queries have been manually annotated by aBAL expert (up to 3 categories per query).
Note thatthese queries have also been selected automaticallywhile preserving the distribution over the target cat-egories observed in the 6-month query log.
We callthis the ?manual?
gold standard.
In addition, we alsomade use of another gold standard obtained by map-ping the click-through information of these querieswith their categories, similar to the way in which weobtain the training set.
We call this the ?via-CT?gold standard.5.3 Experimental settingsTo evaluate the impact of click-though informationand topics in the classifier, we designed the follow-ing experiments, where QR is the method withoutany enrichment andQR-CT -HT is with the enrich-ment via both click-through and hidden topics.Setting Query enrichmentQR ?
?qQR-HT ?
?q ?HTQR-CT ?
?q ?
= ?
?q +?
?t +?
?kwQR-CT -HT ?
?q ?
?HT?
?
?q : query?
?
?q ?
: query enriched with click-through information??
?t : click-through image?s title??
?kw: click-through image?s keywords?HT : hidden topics from Bridgeman metadataTable 2: Experimental SettingSettingHitsManual GS via-CT# 1 # 2 # 3?Top 3 GSQR 207 80 24 311 231QR-HT 212 81 25 318 235QR - CT 243 107 38 388 266QR - CT - HT 289 136 49 474 323Table 3: Results of query classification: number of cor-rect categories found (for 1,049 queries)Figure 1: The impact of click-through information withmatching-ranking (mr) and our approach (svm)To answer our first research question, namelywhether click-through information and hidden top-ics are useful for this query classifier, we examinethe number of correct categories found by the classi-fier built both with and without the enrichment.
Theresults of the experiment are reported in Table 3.
Ascan be seen from the table, we notice that the click-through information plays an important role.
In par-22ticular, it increases the number of correct categoriesfound from 311 to 388 (compared with the manualGS) and from 231 to 266 (using the via-CT GS).To answer our second research question, namelywhether integrating the enriched information into amachine learning classifier can perform better thanthe matching and ranking method, we also comparethe results of our approach with the one in (Le etal., 2011).
Figure 1 shows the impact of the click-through information for the SVM classifier (svm) incomparison with the matching and ranking approach(mr).
Figure 2 shows the impact of the hidden topicsin both cases.
We can see that in both cases our clas-sifier outperforms the matching-ranking one con-siderably (e.g., from 183 to 388 correct categoriesfound in the QR-CT-HT method).Figure 2: The impact of hidden topics with matching-ranking (mr) and our approach (svm)However, in the case where we use only querieswithout click-through information, we can see thathidden topics do not bring a very strong impact (thenumber of correct categories found only slightly in-creases by 7 - using the ?manual?
gold standard).The result might come from the fact that this topicmodel was built from the metadata, using only click-through information, but has not been learned withqueries.6 ConclusionIn this study, we have presented a machine learn-ing classifier for query classification in an art im-age archive.
Since queries are usually very short,thus difficult to classify, we first extend them withtheir click-through information.
Then, these queriesare further enriched with topics learned from theBAL metadata following (Le et al, 2011).
The re-sult from this study has confirmed again the effectof click-through information and hidden topics inthe query classification task using SVM.
We havealso described our method of automatically creat-ing a training set based on the selection of queriesmapped to the click-through links and their corre-sponding available categories using a 6-month querylog.
The result of this study has shown a consid-erable increase in the performance of this approachover the matching-ranking system reported in (Le etal., 2011).7 Future workFor future work, we are in the process of enhancingour experimentation in several directions:Considering more than one click-through imageper query: In this work, we have considered onlyone category per query to create the training set,while it might be more reasonable to take into ac-count all click-through images of a given query.
Infuture work, we plan to enrich the queries with eitherall click-through images or with the most relevantone instead of randomly picking one click-throughimage.
In many cases, a click-through link is notnecessarily related to the meaning of a query (e.g.,when users just randomly click on an image that theyfind interesting).
Thus, it might be useful to filter outthose click-through images that are not relevant.Enriching queries with top hits returned by theBAL search engine: In the query logs, there aremany queries that do not have an associated click-through link.
Hence, we plan to exploit other en-richment method that do not rely on those links, inparticular we will try to exploit the information com-ing from the top returned hits given by the librarysearch engine.Analyzing queries in the same session: It has beenshown in some studies (Cao et al, 2009) that analyz-ing queries in the same session can help determinetheir categories.
Our next step is to enrich a newquery with the information coming from the otherprevious queries in the same session.Optimizing LDA hyperparameters and topicnumber selection: Currently, we fixed the num-ber of topics K = 100, the Dirichlet hyperparame-ters ?
= 50/K = 0.5 and ?
= 0.1 as in (Griffiths and23Steyvers, 2004).
In the future, we will explore waysto optimize these input values to see the effect of dif-ferent topic models in our query classification task.Exploiting visual features from the BAL images:The BAL dataset provides an interesting case studyin which we plan to further analyze images to enrichqueries with their visual features.
Combining textand visual features has drawn a lot of attention in theIR research community.
We believe that exploitingvisual features from this art archive could lead to in-teresting results in this specific domain.
A possibleapproach would be extracting visual features fromthe click-through images and representing them to-gether with textual features in a joint topic distribu-tion (e.g., (Blei et al, 2003a; Li et al, 2010)).Comparing system with other approaches: In thefuture, we plan to compare our system with otherquery classification systems and similar techniquesfor query expansion in general.
Furthermore, theevaluation phase has not been carried out thoroughlysince it was difficult to compare the one-class outputwith the gold-standard, where the number of correctcategories per query is not fixed.
In the future, weplan to exploit the output of our multi-class classi-fier to assign up to three categories for each queryand compute the precision at n.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been partially supported by theGALATEAS project (http://www.galateas.eu/ ?CIP-ICT PSP-2009-3-25430) funded by the Euro-pean Union under the ICT PSP program.ReferencesSteven M. Beitzel, Eric C. Jensen, Ophir Frieder, andDavid Grossman.
2005.
Automatic web query clas-sification using labeled and unlabeled training data.
InIn Proceedings of the 28th Annual International ACMSIGIR Conference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval, pages 581?582.
ACM Press.David M. Blei, Michael I, David M. Blei, and Michael I.2003a.
Modeling annotated data.
In In Proc.
of the26th Intl.
ACM SIGIR Conference.David M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan.2003b.
Latent dirichlet alocation.
J. Mach.
Learn.Res., 3:993?1022, March.Andrei Z. Broder, Marcus Fontoura, EvgeniyGabrilovich, Amruta Joshi, Vanja Josifovski, andTong Zhang.
2007.
Robust classification of rarequeries using web knowledge.
In Proceedings of the30th annual international ACM SIGIR conference onResearch and development in information retrieval,SIGIR ?07, pages 231?238, New York, NY, USA.ACM.Andrei Broder.
2002.
A taxonomy of web search.
SIGIRForum, 36:3?10, September.Huanhuan Cao, Derek Hao Hu, Dou Shen, Daxi Jiang,Jian-Tao Sun, Enhong Chen, and Qiang Yang.
2009.Context-aware query classification.
In SIGIR?09, The32nd Annual ACM SIGIR Conference.Thomas L Griffiths and Mark Steyvers.
2004.
Find-ing scientific topics.
Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of Sciences of the United States of America,101 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):5228?5235.Gregor Heinrich.
2004.
Parameter estimation for textanalysis.
Technical report.Dieu-Thu Le, Raffaella Bernardi, and Edwin Vald.
2011.Query classification via topic models for an art im-age archive.
In Recent Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing, RANLP, Bulgaria.Li-Jia Li, Chong Wang, Yongwhan Lim, David Blei, andLi Fei-Fei.
2010.
Building and using a semantivisualimage hierarchy.
In The Twenty-Third IEEE Confer-ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, SanFrancisco, CA, June.Xuan-Hieu Phan, Cam-Tu Nguyen, Dieu-Thu Le, Le-Minh Nguyen, Susumu Horiguchi, and Quang-ThuyHa.
2010.
A hidden topic-based framework towardsbuilding applications with short web documents.
IEEETransactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,99(PrePrints).Dou Shen, Rong Pan, Jian-Tao Sun, Jeffrey Junfeng Pan,Kangheng Wu, Jie Yin, and Giang Yang.
2006a.Query enrichment for web-query classification.
ACMTransactions on Information Systems, 24(3):320?352.Dou Shen, Jian-Tao Sun, Qiang Yang, and Zheng Chen.2006b.
Building bridges for web query classification.In SIGIR?06.24
